
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 29 MONDAY, OCTOBER2, 2006 
Donnelly tries to drum up campus support 
Effect change, ND grad tells students 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Assistant News Editor 
With the days until the national election ticking down and races across the country heating up, double Domer Joe Donnelly, the democratic candi­date for Congress in Indiana's Second Congressional District, visited campus Sunday night to speak about his goals for the country and to encourage polit­ical activism among students at Notre Dame. 
Donnelly, who graduated from the University in 197_7 and from the Notre Dame Law School fn 1981, is currently engaged in what he called a "razor-close race" with Republican incumbent Chris Chocola, to whom he lost in the 2004 election 55 percent to 45 percent. The race has been sin­gled out for national attention by The New York Times, which used an attack ad employed by Chocola as an example of the trend in negative political cam­paigning. 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame College Democrats (NDCD), the event drew almost 50 interest­ed audience members to LaFortune -the majority of whom were students involved with the NDCD. Helen Adeosun, co-president of the 
see JOE/page 4 


Dorm changes uphold tradition 
ture and available personal maid and grocery services. 
Compared to such luxurious housing, Notre Dame's dorms can start to look like Walkmen among iPods. But for now, the University is tuning out the laughs -Notre Dame likes its older dorms, and the only changes planned for soon-to­be-constructed residence halls are of the spatial variety, said Jeff Shoup, the director of the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLH). 
ORLH recently established a committee to discuss the future of residential life and decide what kind of campus living environment is best for Notre Dame. 
"There are all kinds of places that have things like climbing walls and hot tubs ... but I think everyone on the committee believed that we 
see DORMS/page 6 

Goal is to create more space for students, not luxury housing 
ByJOE PIARULLI Assistant News Editor 
Students at DePaul University in Chicago might just be laughing at Notre Dame right now. 
No, they didn't beat any Irish sports teams or outper­form Notre Dame students academically. But they might be laughing at Notre Dame because-of what they have that Notre Dame students don't -in-room bathrooms and kitchens. Or maybe because of their tanning and hair salons. Or perhaps it's just their satellite television service, their designer furni-
Racers compete to fight cancer 
By MAGGIE DUNN News Writer 
Almost 200 runners and walkers sweated through the 13th annual Saint Mary's Oktoberfest 5K run/3K walk to help raise money for breast cancer Sunday after­noon. 
The event's 186 partici­pants -ranging from Saint Mary's cross-country runners to breast cancer survivors themselves -raised approx­imately $3,650 for the cause. While everyone walked or ran to raise money and awareness, many also had personal reasons. 
"My boyfriend's mom was diagnosed with breast cancer when we were both in high 
see RUN/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Fans bear -weather in victory 
Early scoring, unique plays excite crowd 
By PATRICK CASSIDY 
News Writer 
A week after its euphoric come-from-behind victory in East Lansing, the Irish football team returned home Saturday to face the Purdue Boilermakers in Notre Dame Stadium -and over 80,000 people were on hand to watch. 
Fans like freshman Aileen Villarreal enjoyed the contest, despite the less heralded com­petition this weekend. 
"This was a very important game for the students and fans," Villarreal said. "I think the fans came out pumped because of the heart the play­ers t>howed last week." 
The team gave the fans what they wantf'd right from the beginning, scoring a touch­down on their initial drive for the first time all season. The play calling for the Irish included some trickery as freshman receiver George West scored on an 11-yard reverse play. This decision would just be a precursor to an even more pivotal trick play by head coach Charlie Weis, a Jeff Samardzija fake field goal from five yards out. 
"I love Charlie Weis' aggres­sive play calling," freshman Patrick Duffey said. "lie has great confidence in his players and whether it is a fourth down attempt or a fake special teams' play, he has the guts to do it." 
see GAME/ page 4 

Brazil week promotes cultural awareness 
Organizers to screen video, stage concerts 
By COLLEEN SHULA 
News Writer 

A film viewing, a social hour and concerts headline Notre Dame's third annual Brazil week, an event beginning today that's meant to cele­brate Brazilian culture and encourage a greater apprecia­tion of it. 
"It's a very lively culture that draws a lot of people," said Juliana de Sousa Solis, a member of the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, who helped plan and organize the week. 
Events run from Monday through Thursday and begin with a showing of the movie "Favela Rising" on Monday night. The film, which has won 24 national and interna­tional film festival awards, documents social revolution­ary Anderson Sa as he rallies against the violent oppression in his Rio de Janeiro commu­nity. Irene Rizzini, visiting chair in the Study of Brazilian Culture, will introduce the film and will lead a discussion 
--see-BRAZIL/page 6 
Monday, October 2, 2006 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Woe is the castigated s111oker 
Perhaps it is just my own personal background, but I had never been exposed to true prejudice in my life, at least not until I came here to Notre Dame. Recently, though, I have become aware that I 
Phil Hudelson
myself am part of a minority 
Photographer
group here that suffers great persecu­tion at the hands of others. 
I am a smoker. 
At a school that is constantly try­ing to become more diverse, it always amazes me that so many people can be so closed-minded about something. As a smoker, it is rare to go more than a day without at least one person telling me how awful my habit is and list a plethora of reasons for me to quit. 
I find it hard to believe that there are many people in the country today who are unaware of the risks and consequences of smoking. After all, it is hard to ignore the flood of anti-smoking propaganda in every form of media. Every smoker knows the inherent risks, and has made a choice to keep smoking in spite of them. So when a random passerby feels it necessary to criticize my lifestyle choices, it leaves me dumb­founded and with no response ... besides to light another cigarette, of course. 
If this were the only problem I ran into as a smoker, I realize I would not have much to complain about. The real problem, though, is not as simple as having to face dirty looks from people I don't know. Rather, it is the fact that my rights are slowly being taken away from me by the government that is supposed to pro­tect them. There is a public smoking ban in place already in St Joe County, and in my hometown of Columbus, Ohio, as well. On the bal­lot this November will be a proposal to make all public places in Ohio smoke-free. 
The real issue here is not clean air for non-smokers, but the rights of every smoker in Ohio, as well as the owners of every sort of business and establishment throughout the state. There has never been a law saying that non-smokers must patronize a restaurant that allows smoking, and there has likewise never been a law forcing the owners of businesses to accommodate smokers. But now businesses are in danger of losing their rights, and so are smokers. 
Should you ever have the chance to vote on the issue yourself, remem­ber, even though I smoke, I am still a person. As November approaches, I can only pray and hope that I will not have to spend the rest of my life as a social pariah because of the prejudice of others. 
With any luck, my rights will be saved, and the tobacco ban will go up in smoke. 
Contact Phil Hudelson at whudelso@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to an editing error, rhe story "NO course mate­rial put online" in rhe Sept. 28 edition ofThe Observer did nor mention Terri Bays, director of rhe OpenCourseWare project. The Observer regrets rhe error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE CHEER TO DO AT FOOTBALL GAMES? 



Kim Kyrouac Rebecca Mendoza Molly McGowen 
freshman sophomore freshman Walsh Lewis Breen-Phillips 
"Doing the jig, 'The one the "I love the 
at least until I band plays push-ups, as fell offthe after a sack, .long as our bleachers." because the score isn't whole soccer getting too team goes crazy high." for it." 

City official says sterilize bad parents 
CHARLESTON, S.C.-A City Council member, reacting to a video store holdup believed to have been carried out by chil­dren, says parents who can't properly care for their kids should be steril­ized. 
"We pick up stray ani­mals and spay them," Larry Shirley said in a story published Saturday by The Post and Courier of Charleston. "These mothers need to be spayed if they can't take care of theirs. Once they have a child and it's run­ning the street, to let them continue to have children is totally unac­ceptable." 
Shirley's comments come after police say a video store was held up by a group of children, including a 14-year-old girl suspected of wielding a BB gun that looked like a pistol. 
Alleged burglar does laundry, gets pizza 
BAKERSFIELD, Calif. ­A burglar who made him­self at home after a break-in overstayed his visit, police said. 
Larcellus Angelo Scott, 23, had ordered a pizza and was doing a load of laundry Wednesday when Denise Bealessio returned home from work. 


Bealessio, 51, arrived just as the pizza did. She turned the delivery driver away and was met inside the door by Scott. 
Scott attacked, but Bealessio was able to escape unharmed. A neighbor called police, who found Scott rummag­ing through Bealessio's purse. He had written one of Bealessio's checks to pay for the pizza. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Charlie Gardner Brett Belock Elizabeth Elliott 
freshman junior junior Knott Morrissey Welsh Family 
"Gooo Irish! 'The 'Metallica' "That big, long, Beat one, because it's involved one [someone]!" just plain that doesn't awesome. really have a 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 
::::t: 
~ 
::LLI _. 
c( 
(,) 




.... 0 HIGH 81 HIGH 65 HIGH 80 HIGH 66 LOW 61 LOW 48 LOW 61 LOW 47 


name ... 

IN BRIEF 
All are invited to a public forum, "Decade Past, Decade Future: Journalism Copes with Constant Change" which will be hosted by The Gallivan Program today at 3 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies auditorium. 
Alexander Tzonis, professor and chair emeritus of architec­tural theory and design methods at the University of Technology of Delft, Netherlands will lecture on "The Discovery of Classical Architecture: Its Background, Principles and Civilizing Force" today at 4:30 p.m. in room 104 Bond Hall. 
"Performance and Analysis ­or Synthesis: Theorizing Gesture and Texture for Performers" a lecture by Dr. Robert Hatten, professor of music theory at Indiana University will take place today at 5 p.m. in room 115 of the Crowley Hall of Music. 
All students are invited to attend an informational meet­ing on funded internships available in Latin America, Africa and the United States. Summer 2006 interns will speak about their experiences and answer questions.The meeting will take place in C-103 of the Hesburgh Center at 6:30 p.m. 
There will be a public screen­ing of "The Unforgiven" with a question and answer session with director Yoon Jong-Bin at 7 
p.m. today in Browning Theat_re, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. All are invited, but tickets are required. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

~ 

HIGH 62 HIGH 65 LOW 44 LOW 49 
Atlanta 84 I 58 Boston 67 I 52 Chicago 85 I 66 Denver 80 I 54 Houston 93 I 70 Los Angeles 72 I 57 Minneapolis 82 1 62 New York 71 I 57 Philadelphia 72 I 53 Phoenix 98 I 77 Seattle 62 I 49 St. Louis 89 I 67 Tampa 92 I 71 Washington 74 157 
Monday, October 2, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Media intake scrutinized 
By AMY BARKER 
NewsWrirer 
The endless stream of media from a variety of sources can actually pose a problem to politics in America, Dr. John Pauley said in a talk at Saint Mary's Stapleton Lounge last week. 
Chair of the Saint Mary's communication department Dr. John 
"The line between fact and opinion is continually becoming blurred," Pauley said. 
Pauley also discussed the dangerous "Selected Exposure" phenomenon, which creates factions full of like-minded citizens. 
"We are reaching a point where people consume the media that matches their own prejudices," he said. 
For example, 

Pauley spoke 86 percent of
"Howard Stern, 

on the com­people who plications Oprah, etc. are watched 
media poses not reporters or Michael 
for politics in Moore's
journalists."

America last "Fahrenheit 9­week at Saint 11" already Mary's John Pauley disapproved of Stapleton President
chair 

Lounge. George W.

department of 

Entitled Bush's admin­

communication

"What does it matter what media we consume?," the speech began with a pres­entation of American media and its coverage of American politics. Pauley, who chairs the communica­tion department at Saint Mary's, compared the media of 50 years ago ­when there were three major networks main­streaming the news -to today's innumerable resources of information, which Pauley actually called a serious problem. He pointed out that anyone with an opinion can poten­tially publish it on the inter­net. 
istration, 
Pauley said ­and 88 percent of Rush Limbaugh listeners already approve of President Bush. 
According to Pauley, in the trend of reinforcing and reassuring, the prospect of collaborating with an opposing opinion in order to find common ground is lost. The broader the spectrum of people a person is talking to or collaborating with, the sounder their reasoning must be in order to best reach out to the audience. 
"In my opinion, the net result of selected exposure pervading our environment is disheartening," he said. 
Pauley moved into the second point of his speech by defining politics as "a system for distributing scarce resources to a collec­tive for programmatic rea­sons," and questioned the media's presentation of poli­tics. For example, 33 per­cent of citizens switched their initial presidential vote after listening to the Howard Stern show. 

"Howard Stern, Oprah, etc. are not reporters or journalists," Pauley said. "How can they be a sub­stantial source of political information?" 
He encouraged students to seek and decipher all the available information and to avoid the cultural fixation with personality, an obses­sion that is not a part of his political definition. 
Three techniques for pre­venting the problem in media consumption are lis­tening, reasoning and dia­logue, Pauley said, and stu­dents should focus on "con­scious consuming of politi­cal information and in fact, all information." 
Saint Mary's senior Rachel Sokolowski recog­nizes a problem in media consumption. 
"A lot of youth are influ­enced by the wrong out­lets," she said, "and if they can't decipher between thought and opinion then we are at a loss." 
Contact Amy Barker at abarke02@saintmarys.edu 

Fund created to draw-profs 
Special to The Observer 
University of Notre Dame board chairman emeritus Donald Keough, his wife, Mar­ilyn, and their children have rna de a gift to the Univ­ersity for an e n ­dow­rn en t 

in sup-Keough port of chaired faculty positions for scholars who are both world­class leaders in their field of expertise and demonstrate a commit­ment to the Catholic mission of Notre Dame. To be called Keough­H e s b u r g h Professorships, in honor of Don Keough and Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president emeri­tus of Notre Dame, the initiative will create two chaired faculty posi­tions and fund the University's efforts to identify and attract younger faculty and graduate students who would work with a Keough-Hesburgh pro­fessor. "The generosity of Don Keough and his family has made an indelible difference in 
the great gains of Notre Dame in recent decades, and we are deeply grateful," said Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., the University's president. "We asked that the faculty chairs be named after Mr. Keough, a great lay leader at the University, and Father Ilesburgh, a great Holy Cross priest president. These two individuals worked together on behalf of Notre Dame, and the name of these chairs expresses the fruitful collaboration between lay leaders and Holy Cross religious that has so enhanced the University." 
The goal of the Keough-Hesburgh Professorships is to attract outstanding fac­ulty members to Notre Dame who may be early or late in their careers, visiting or tenured, and traditional academic scholars or individuals whose intellectual pre­eminence has been demonstrated in other settings. 
Thomas G. Burish, Notre Dame's provost, explained: "The two essential characteristics of those who will be appointed Keough­Hesburgh Professors are that they truly are among the best in their 

area of expertise, bringing both uncom­mon talent and broad visibility to the University, and that they will enhance Notre Dame's Catholic charac­ter and mission. It is our preference that such individuals be Catholic themselves, able to give witness to faith in their lives as well as provide intellec­tual leadership in Notre Dame's Catholic mission to the University com­munity." 
Part of the gift from the Keoughs has been used to create an office under the leadership of Rev. Robert Sullivan, associate professor of history and director of the Erasmus Institute, to identify Catholic scholars who are aca­demically suitable can­didates for positions at Notre Dame. 
Keough is chairman of the board of Allen & Company Inc., a New York investment bank­ing firm. He retired as president and chief operating officer of The Coca-Cola Company in 1993 and continues as a member of the Board of Directors. A member of the University's Board of Trustees since 1978, he served as board chair from 1986 to 1991. 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 2, 2006 
Joe 
continued from page 1 
NDCD, introduced Donnelly, emphasizing his Notre Dame connections. 
"[Joe Donnelly] is a double Domer, his wife was part of the University's inaugural female class, his son and daughter are both attending Notre Dame ­they're really an example of an incredible Notre Dame family," to engage. 
"For five months I've been hit over the head by this guy [Chocolal. so I had to respond [ ... ] because negative commer­cials work if you don't defend yourself," he said. 
Donnelly criticized the actions of the Republican-led Congress, blaming them in part for the creation of an almost $9 trillion national debt from a projected $5 trillion surplus in 2000. 
"When Democrats gain con­
trol of the U.S. 
House of 
Adeosun said. "You need to Representatives, Donnelly, who you will see much
know when you
was late in coming more common from a parade in look at your sense and solid the southern part of Congress that governing," he the district, spoke said. "It's all been
you can have
first about his cam­controlled by one paign and ideology, absolute and side, and because then opened up the complete of that, things floor for questions. have spun out of
confidence in
His emphasis control." throughout was them. They He said his change, both the shouldn ,t be vision is for a kind he said he more responsible
rubber stamps for 
plans on effecting if Congress, made
the president. ,,
elected to Congress up of representa­and the kind he tives who encouraged stu­Joe Donnelly "remember why dents to envision -they're there."
congressional
pointing to this Donnelly used

candidate
Indiana district as the starting point for change in the country as a whole. 
"This district is the micro­cosm of America," Donnelly said. "We want to take our country back, put it back in the hands of working families, in the hands of all Americans [ ... ] and this Congressional seat has become, for good or bad, ground zero in this fight. We can literally change America and change the world right here." 
Referring to the negative ad campaigns run by both sides in the race, Donnelly said he thought it was "the disgusting part of politics," but that he had 


Ga01e 
continued from page 1 
The key player in the Irish victory was junior halfback Darius Walker, whose 219 all­purpose yards sparked the offense and relieved the intense pressure placed on the passing game. 
Florida 
Representative Mark Foley -a former co­chair of the House Caucus on Missing and Exploited Children who resigned on Sept. 29 after it was made public that he had sent sexually explicit emails and instant messages to boys under the age of 18 who were serving as Congressional pages -and Chocola, who Donnelly claimed said in 2004 that he wanted to go to Congress to "help President Bush," as examples of those who failed their constituents. 
"You need to know when you look at your Congress that you can have absolute and complete confidence in them," he said. 
before the end of our sched­ule." 
The weather decided to reflect the dismal defensive performance, pouring on the crowd through most of the third quarter. Rain also soaked Irish fans last week in East Lansing, but that storm was more severe, said Kathleen Donahue, who attended both the 


"Darius Walker Purdue and
"Hopefully our
finally stepped it Michigan state 
up," Anthony upcoming games games. Bencivenga said. will allow us to "Compared to the "If he can play like treacherous weath­
work out certain 
that the rest of the er in East Lansing,
kinks before the 
season, Notre this was only a Dame will be tough end ofour light shower," she to beat." said. "It did howev­
schedule.,,
Walker's glitter­er help to rile up ing performance the crowd even doesn't mean the Dan Mullaney more." entire squad is freshman Ebullient fans 
gold, though -the defense gave up almost 500 yards of total offense. The steady "kill, kill" student section defensive chant was silenced as Purdue quar­terback Curtis Painter threw for nearly 400 yards, including an 88-yard touchdown pitch and catch to Selwyn Lymon. 
"The defense needs to get a lot tougher," freshman Dan Mullaney said. "Hopefully our upcoming games will allow us to work out certain kinks 
now await the 
Stanford Cardinal contest and the rest of the sea­son with measured optimism. Freshman Brett Berceau is placing his trust in the Notre Dame quarterback. 
"We are all looking forward to Brady Quinn, who is back in the Heisman race, leading us to an unblemished finish," he said. 
Contact Patrick Cassidy at pcassidy@nd.edu 


"They shouldn't be rubber stamps for the president." 
Donnelly encouraged students in the audience to take the time over the n·ext four weeks to help canvass for his campaign. 
"We can win here, but we can't win without your help, so come put your Notre Dame skills to the test and make things happen," he said. 
The candidate then took sev­eral brief questions from the audience regarding his policy toward foreign aid, health care, foreign relations with the Middle East and the genocide in Darfur. 
He supported monetary for­eign aid, calling it "an impor­tant part of what America is," and saying it would be easy to fund if "all the waste and non­sense" in the budget was elimi­nated. 
And while criticizing the ini­tial move to enter into war in Iraq, he said an immediate mil­itary pullout was not an option. 
"Now we're there [in Iraq], and if we leave tomorrow it probably becomes terrorist cen­tral, in my opinion," Donnelly said. "I think we can stabilize the country, but we have to have standards or goals we're shooting for to get this done, which we don't seem to have right now." 
In closing, Donnelly again asked for volunteer help, appealing to the audience as Notre Dame students. 
"You say you want to be part of the Fighting Irish spirit and team -well, this is bigger than a football game gang, a lot big­ger than the game against Stanford next week [ ... 1 This is your country, guys," he said. "Make it so that when you fin­ish here, you can say one of the things you accomplished is that you got your country back." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
Run 
continued from page 1 
school," Saint Mary's junior Rocky Krivda said. "So I think this is a great oppor­tunity to support the cause and be healthy at the same time." 
Another runner, junior Kristina Ramos, noted that Sunday was "respect life" Sunday in the Catholic Church. 
"It's a reminder to 
and finish line. Sullivan said the corporate sponsors alone almost exceeded last year's total profit of approx­imately $2,170 even before the actual fundraiser took place. 
The money raised came from individual donations, the sponsors, the ten-dollar T-shirts and the raffle ticket profits. The raffle included about 20 different prizes ranging from gift certifi­cates for local restaurants and an iTunes gift card to a fragrance basket from Saks worth 

honor all "As someone who,s over one hundred forms of life," been there, I truly dollars and the she said. Deluxe Nike Plus
know what your 
The top kit for runners. 
three runners kindness means.,, All proceeds and top three from Oktoberfest walkers will go to the
Kim Zobrosky
received free local Young
head
T-shirts that Survivors breast 
Young Survivors
came in cancer support 
donated Saks Fifth Avenue bags. The top 13 runners also received free Saks bags. 
Saint Mary's softball coach Erin Sullivan, who directed the fundraiser, said prior to the event that she expected it to be more successful this year for a number of rea­sons. Holding the event on a Sunday instead of a Monday, as it had been for roughly the past five years, makes it easier for people to find time to come out and partic­ipate. Sullivan also pointed to the improved publicity, which she thinks generated a lot of interest. 
Finally and most notably, event planners sought out corporations to sponsor the event. 
The Saint Mary's Inn spon­sored the whole run/walk, and Barnaby's and Factory Tile Inc. sponsored the start 
group to help pay 
for various things, such as mammo­grams for uninsured women between the ages of 40 and 49, or the care package that the group gives to newly diagnosed women. 
Head of the Young Survivors group and breast cancer survivor Kim Zobrosky spoke at the race, explaining that the group aims to educate through awareness and support each other throughout treatment to get back to living a nor­mal life. At the end of her speech, she thanked every­one who put together and participated in Oktoberfest. 
"As someone who's been there, I truly know what your kindness means," Zobrosky said. 
Contact Maggie Dunn at mdunnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 





Coffee and .conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, October 3 7:30-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council tor Gay and Lesbian Students invites gay. lesbian. and bisexual members ot the Notre Dame family. their friends, and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
Everrone is welcome and confidentiality IS assured, 


CORE COUNCil 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 




ORLD & NATION 
Monday, October 2, 2006 CoMPtuo FROM THE Osst.RVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Dozens feared dead in dam collapse 
KANO, Nigeria -Families were swept away in a torrent of water and up to 40 peo­ple were feared dead after a dam collapsed in northwest Nigeria, a state-owned radio station said Sunday. 
The dam -about one mile from the center of Zamfara state's capital city of Gusau ­collapsed Saturday after heavy rains. But surveyors were trying to determine whether to blame the downpour or structural neglect. 
Ibrahim Brini Magaja, a spokesman for the Zamfara state governor, said it was too early to determine why the dam did not hold up, but a construction firm had been asked to study the damage for clues. 
Radio Nigeria said up to 40 people might be dead and area resident Johnson Enokola, 39, said he counted seven bodies floating in the water. Police confirmed three deaths. 
Embattled Irish P.M. repays loans 
DUBLIN, Ireland -Prime Minister Bertie Ahern has repaid business friends more than $100,000 in hopes of defusing a scan­dal that is threatening to force him from power, officials said Sunday. 
Two government officials, who spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity, confirmed newspaper reports that Ahern mailed checks Friday to a dozen friends who had given him about $65,000 in late 1993 and early 1994. Ahern did not disclose having received the money until The Irish Times newspaper on Sept. 21 reported details of the payments. 
Ahern, who has led Ireland since 1997, characterized the money as an interest­bearing loan -but conceded he had not repaid any of it to his long-time friends and business acquaintances. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Congress reacts to e-mail scandal 
WASHINGTON -House Speaker Dennis Hastert requested Sunday that the Justice Department conduct an investigation into for­mer Rep. Mark Foley's electronic messages to teenage boys -a lurid scandal that has put House Republicans in political peril. 
"As Speaker of the House, I hereby request that the Department of Justice conduct an inves­tigation of Mr. Foley's conduct with current and former House pages to determine to what extent any of his actions violated federal law," Hastert, R-Ill., wrote in a letter to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales. 
White House counselor Dan Bartlett called the allegations against Foley shocking, but said President Bush hadn't learned of Foley's inap­propriate e-mails to a 16-year-old boy and instant messages to other boys before the news broke last week. 

Man allegedly killed wife, four kids 
NORTH CHARLESTON, S.C. -A man was charged Sunday with murdering his wife and her four children in a domestic dispute at their home, authorities said. 
Michael Simmons, 41, appeared at a bond hearing via video link from the Charleston County jail on Sunday and was ordered held without bond on five counts of murder. 
Officers discovered the bodies, including that of a 6-year-old, Saturday after responding to a call. According to an arrest affidavit, a witness saw the bodies in the home then called police. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Schools punish kids for online posts 
INDIANAPOLIS-A growing number of school officials in the Indianapolis area are try­ing to punish students for Internet commen­tary they deem inappropriate -including postings on home computers -drawing out­rage from teens and free-speech advocates. 
One school district has warned students they are legally responsible for postings; another will vote on a similar policy this month. 
"Kids look at the Internet as today's rest­room wall," said Steve Dillon, director of stu­dent services for Carmel Clay Schools. "They need to learn that some things are not accept­able anywhere." 

Rumsfeld faces new criticism 
Secretary of Defensef under renewed fire for Iraq policies, says he will not resign 
Associated Press 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua ­Defense Secretary Donald 
H. Rumsfeld, coming under renewed fire for his man­agement of the Iraq war, said Sunday he is not con­sidering resigning and said the president had called him personally in recent days to express his contin­ued support. 
Speaking to reporters en route to Nicaragua for a meeting of defense minis­ters, Rumsfeld said he was not surprised by reports in a new book that White I louse staff had encouraged President Bush to fire him after the 2004 election. 
"It's the task of the chief of staff of the White House -and having been one, I know that -to raise all kinds of questions with the president and think through different ways of approaching things," Rumsfeld said. "So it wouldn't surprise me a bit if that subject had come up." 
Asked by reporters if he had recently considered resigning, Rumsfeld said, 

"No." 

In the new book "State of Denial," Washington Post assistant managing editor Bob Woodward writes that former White House chief of staff Andrew Card twice sought to persuade Bush to acknowledged that he twice in Slovenia, Rumsfeld City. Venezuelan President fire Rumsfeld. offered Bush his resigna­arrived in Nicaragua Sun­Hugo Chavez called Bush 
Card on Friday did not tion, but it was not accept­day afternoon for two days "the devil" and slammed dispute that he had talked ed. of meetings with defense U.S. leaders for trying to about a Runisfeld resigna­The defense secretary officials from more than 30 block his country from tak­tion with the president but and Bush have faced grow­South and Central Amer­ing a seat on the U.N. said it was his job to dis­ing criticism for their han­ican countries. Security Council. cuss a wide range of possi­dling of the Iraq war as vio­The talks here -in one Rumsfeld said Sunday he ble replacements, including lence there has escalated, of the Western Hemi­did not expect to meet pri­his own. U.S. casualties have mount­sphere's poorest countries vately with the Venezuelan 
Rumsfeld on Sunday also ed and public support for -are expected to focus on defense minister, although denied any rift with the conflict has declined. counter-narcotics and he will see him during the Secretary of State Con­Fueling the debate in counterterrorism efforts, regular meeting. doleezza Rice and said the recent days was the release peacekeeping missions, U.S. officials have long ongoing debate doesn't of a classified intelligence humanitarian and disaster considered Chavez a desta­detract from his work with report that concluded that relief and the removal of bilizing force in Latin other international leaders. the Iraq war has helped land mines from the region. America. And they have 
He said he had spoken to fuel a new generation of The meeting of the suggested that Venezuela Bush since the book's con­extremists and increased region's defense ministers would make the U.N. tents were made public. the overall terrorist threat. follows a tense period in Security Council unwork­Bush "called me personal­Just back from a five-day which Venezuela's leaders able if the nation were to ly," said Rumsfeld, to voice trip to the Balkan region, lashed out at the U.S. and win its bid against U.S.­support. which included a NATO President Bush during a backed Guatemala for a 
Rumsfeld has previously defense ministers meeting U.N. meeting in New York rotating council seat. 

AFGHANISTAN 



U.S. held detainees indefinitely 
tion of innocence -or his inability Taliban suspects later shipped to
Associated Press to make that heard for so long. Like Guantanamo, Bagram has expand­KABUL -Capt. Amanullah, a for­many who have passed through the ed and acquired its own notoriety mer mujahedeen commander, secretive jail set up after the fall of over abuse allegations though smooths his black beard with his the Taliban regime, Amanullah attracting much less international palm and gives a deep and ironic found himself entangled in a system attention than the U.S. detention laugh as he recounts his 14 miser­where he had no protection and no facility in Cuba. able months in Bagram, the U.S. rights, and not even the pressure of The U.S. plans to turn over the prison for terror suspects in public scrutiny that helped inmates Afghan nationals in its custody to Afghanistan. at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, or Abu the Afghan government by next "There were lots of stupid ques­Ghraib, Iraq. summer. They will be sent to a new tions and accusations with no "There's been a silence about high-security wing at the Afghan proof," said the 56-year-old veteran Bagram, and much less political government's main Policharki of combat against the Soviet occu­discussion about it," said Richard prison in Kabul -scene of repeat­pation. He insists he was there only Bennett, the chief U.N. human ed deadly riots and escapes in because Afghan rivals lied about rights officer in Afghanistan. recent years. But non-Afghans cur­him to the U.S. Army. Originally intended as a short­rently held at Bagram will stay in He's far from alone in his asser-term holding pen for al-Qaida and U.S. custody, officials say. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 2, 2006 
and other occupancies. Shoup said he is still sur­
Dor01s 

prised to find that most 
continued from page 1 incoming students seem to -------------want to live in older dorms. 
were better off sticking to tra-"It's still one of those things 
ditional kinds of things," that ... if we let students pick, 
Shoup said. they're still saying Sorin, 
Though students are not Alumni, Dillon, Morrissey," he likely to see lavish living said. "Every once in a while changes, they will see somebody will say 'well I improvements in the dorms have bad allergies, I really -especially when new resi-would prefer air condition­deuce halls are built, which ing. "' Shoup said they hope "will be Sophomore Michael in the next five or ten years." Lammie said he understands 
According to Shoup, one of why students feel this way. the biggest improvements will "The dorms have so much address the issue of tight tradition-they're sources of quarters. Based on recent pride," he said. "Obviously it surveys of room size, dorms would be nice to have all like Dillon, Alumni, Sorin, those luxuries, but Notre Zahm, Cavanaugh, Farley Dame doesn't really need all and Breen Phillips are most that. likely to see substantial ''I'd be worried that the changes. dorms would lose their char­
"Once we get new residence acters and just become glori­halls ... the goal is actually to fled hotels. I don't brag back take down some of the occu-to my friends about how pancies," Shoup said. "Those fancy my dorm is, but I have are the kinds of things that plenty to say about our sports [the committee] talked about and academics that more as a group rather than some than make up for it." of the kind of amenities I'm reading about ... which to me Contact Joe Piarulli at don't seem like traditional jpiarull@nd.edu 
Notre Dame things." 
Although one of the goals is creating more space for dorm living, maintaining and repairing dorms continues to be a high priority. 
In recent years, Dillon, Alumni and Farley have seen serious repairs. According to Shoup, ORLH is always look­ing at what repairs and changes are necessary. He's heard the rumors about Morrissey .being considered one of the worst dorms in America, but is confident that Notre Dame is working for­ward. 
"A lot of people are coming into college who have never shared a room, and we put them into kind of a tight space," he said. "It's some­thing that we're aware of and hope to fix in the next few years." 
Shoup said the number of students moving off campus has been consistent in the past few years, but he believes the benefits of the new dorms may lead to more students staying on campus. 
"Right now we're just trying to make the residence halls more livable," he said. "If that means more people stay on then that's great, if more people move off then that would be their choice." 
Architecturally, Shoup said the new buildings will be designed with a gothic style -in the model of Zahm or Alumni. 
"I don't know that there's going to be significant ameni­ties or luxuries in new build­ings -I think our goal would be that there would be lots of different room sizes," he said. 
A variety of room sizes would allow upperclassmen to obtain better rooms, per­haps even some with bath­rooms, Shoup said. 
The system of progressing to bigger rooms is not unknown at Notre Dame-in fact, it is somewhat similar to the system for football tickets in which older students sit closer to midfield -but Shoup said he hopes the sys­tem becomes more pro­nounced. 
Though new dorms may seem to be on a higher level in terms of standards of liv­ing, Shoup said the pricing system would not change. 
Right now there are only two possible rates, the differ­ence being between singles 



perform during the week at two South Bend schools,

Brazil 
Coquillard Elementary and continued from page 1 John Adams High. Kelly Hoberts, the publications and after the showing. communications manager of 
On Tuesday there will be a the Kellogg Institute, said Brazilian social hour called Brazil Week is more than just "Bate-Papo" at the Hesburgh a campus event. 
Center.  It will  "We  are  hop- 
include music  ing  to  bring  a  
by  the  few exciting bits  
Brazilian choir ContraCantos and Brazilian b a n d  "One ofthe big goals is to give not only Notre Dame, but also  of Brazil to South Bend," Hoberts said. De Sousa Solis,  
Arabiando. The  the Midwest, the  who  is  half  
social hour will also have Brazilian appe­tizers and  opportunity to experience the best of Brazilian culture. "  Brazilian, also believes it is important to extend the event  
maracuja,  a  to the communi­ 
Brazilian pas­sion fruit juice. ContraCantos and Arabiando  Juliana de Sousa Solis member Kellogg Institute for  ty. "One of the big goals is to give not only Notre  
will  perform  International Studies  Dame, but also  
again  on  the Midwest, the  
Thursday  opportunity  to  
evening  at  experience the  

Washington Hall. The two best of Brazilian culture," she groups will join together to said. "I think it's an important play a variety of Brazilian culture to be exposed to. It music, including jazz and has such an eclectic back­beach dance. ground." 
The choir and band will also One of the sponsors of Brazil 

• 

our 1 eas 
... we have. GE's LEXAN SLX body panels infuse plastic with pigment, reducing volatile organic compound emissions normally associated with conventional automotive paint. We call this ecomagination. At GE we invite you to hatch your ecomagination through a career in engineering. finance. manufacturing, sales and marketing. human resources. or information technology. 
Visit gecareers.com/notredame 
an equal opportunity employer 
Take the

/ta 
challenge

(~
ecomogination· ecocollegechallenge.com 
CHALLENGE 

Come and learn more about GE's internships a leadership programs. All majors and all years wel­come! 
GE Information Night October 2, 2006 126 DeBartolo 7:00 -8:30 PM 
imagination at work 
Week is the Program in Portuguese and Brazilian studies. Established five years ago, the Program offers cours­es in Portuguese language and Brazilian culture. The Kellogg Institute has organized sum­mer internships in Brazil for Notre Dame students as part of the program. 
The University also offers study abroad programs in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. 
Funding for the week's events originated in 2000 when the Kellogg Institute formed a partnership with the Brazilian Ministry of Culture at Notre Dame. The first Brazil Week was held in the spring of 2005 in conjunction with the partnership. 
Other sponsors of Brazil Week include the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the Department of Homance Languages and Literatures, International Student Services and Activities, the Department of Film, Television, and Theatre and the Institute for Latino Studies. 
Contact Colleen Shula at cshula@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Monday, October 2, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


Dow 


11,679.07 -39.38
}ones 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I ,339 143 1,913 2,290,508.030 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ) 

-0.44 -0.18 40.65 
INTEL CP (INTC) -0.96 -0.20 20.57 

SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 

-0.60 -0.03 4.95 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.18 -0.05 27.35 

JDS UNIPHASE CP ODSU) 

-2.67 -0.06 2.19 
Treasuries 
I0-YEAR NOTE +0.15 +0.007 4.633 13-WEEK BILL +0.42 +0.020 4.760 30-YEAR BOND 0.00 0.000 4.767 5-YEAR NOTE +0.20 +0.009 4.587 
Commodities 
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.15 62.91 GOLD ($/Troy .oz.) -6.70 604.20 PORK BELUE$ (cents/lb.) +1.63 92.03 
Excha Rates 
YEN 

118.1600 EURO 
0.7890 POUND 
0.5343 CANADIAN$ 
1.1 179 
IN BRIEF 



lilly debates dropping diabetes drug 
INDIANAPOLIS -Eli Lilly and Co. said Friday it is uncertain whether it will conduct a new, yearslong clinical trial on an experimental drug for diabetes-related blindness requested by the FDA to approve the medicine. 
Lilly said it is "disappointed" with the FDA's request and is weighing whether to conduct a new three-year clinical trial for Arxxant, which many had seen as the company's next block­buster drug. If approved, it would be the first oral treatment for diabetic retinopathy, a leading cause of blindness in people under the age of 65. 
The Indianapolis-based drug maker said the additional research could take up to five years to complete, including the time needed to enroll patients and analyze the data. 
"We are certainly disappointed with this com­munication from the FDA," Lilly's president and chief operating officer, John C. Lechleiter, said in a statement. 
Deutsche Bank analyst Barbara Ryan predicted Ully would drop development of Arxxant because of the additional time and expense of new testing. The drug, she said, had been shown to be only marginally effective. 
Companies struggle with pension rules 
NEW YORK -Now that corporate America's pension promises will be thrust into the spotlight by new regulations, investors should watch for accounting tricks companies may use to redu~e their benefit obligations. 
New rules from U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board will force companies to report the status of their pensions and other post-retire­ment employee benefits -as an asset or, for most, a liability if they are underfunded -on their balance sheets rather than have them buried in a footnote to the financial statements. 
That means huge liabilities could suddenly drop like a bomb onto balance sheets, putting any deficits squarely in the public view and possibly throwing some lending agreements into question because it may lead to sharp drops in corporate net worth. 
Figuring out if any maneuvering is going on won't be an easy task. Investors will have to close­ly watch companies' assumptions for such things as health care and wage inflation that are used to determine the costs of defined benefit plans, which promise retirees a monthly check. 


Fox News losing market share 
Network faces challenges from ratings, Democrats as 10th anniversary approaches 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Fox News 
Channel will mark its lOth 
anniversary this week in an 
unusual position: knocked 
back on its heels. 
The network is in the midst of its first-ever ratings slump. Cable news' most sta­ble lineup is being juggled. And the blow-up over President Clinton's interview with Chris Wallace suggests that Democrats are attack­ing Fox because they per­ceive the same vulnerability in the network as they do in the Bush administration. 
Maybe some of this was on Fox News chief Roger Ailes' mind one day last week when he rode the elevator to the 22nd floor of News Corp.'s office tower for an 
8:45 a.m. stroll through the network's ad sales depart­ment. 
Mr. Ailes? What are you doing up here, someone wondered aloud. 
"Taking attendance," the hard-charging motivator replied. 
Message delivered. 
Loved by some, loathed by others, Fox News Channel has been the biggest success in the cable industry and profoundly changed televi­sion news since its signal turned on Oct. 7, 1996. 
Ailes can still remember a reporter's laughter during the news conference to seem like a contrast to left­to think differently in their aggressiveness in question­introduce the network. He leaning news coverage else­own newsrooms," Ailes said. ing the government's had the last laugh: Fox News where. Fox's critics consider "fair assumptions leading up to beat by a year his plan for Before Fox, many in the and balanced" camouflage the Iraq war. overtaking CNN and grew to media scoffed at the notion for an agenda. Whatever the Ailes dismissed that theory more than double its rivals of a liberal bias and figured truth, news-watching be­with an epithet. · in viewership. It made stars only a handful of people came increasingly partisan: Less attention has been of Bill O'Reilly and Sean really believed that, said more Democrats watched paid to the look of Fox News. Hannity and put "fair and Erik Sorenson, former CNN, more Republicans During its peak, it appeared balanced" into news history MSNBC president. watched Fox, according to a more colorful, more graphi­textbooks. "Fox proved it's a much 2004 study by the Pew cally innovative and more 
"I watched CNN for a week larger group than anybody Research Center for the urgent. It made CNN look before I went on and I kept realized," he said. People ill the Press. The year stodgy. trying to wake myself up," Their success clearly made Fox started, CNN had more But the years of explosive Ailes told The Associated others respond. The very Republican viewers than growth have ended at Fox. Press. "I kept nodding off idea that Rush Limbaugh Democrats. Viewership over the first and I realized they are would appear on a "CBS While he cautioned not to eight months of the year was biased, they are boring, they Evening News" segment overexaggerate Fox's influ­down 5 percent compared to looked like a network that called "Free Speech," heavily ence, former CBS News 2005, with a steeper 13 per­has never had any competi­promoted on Katie Couric's President Andrew Heyward cent decline in prime-time, tion." first night as anchor, would suggested industry sensitivi­according to Nielsen Media 
Ailes, a former Republican have been unfathomable a ty to Fox's popularity, cou­Research. For 12 straight political operative, said sim­decade ago, Sorenson said. pled with shock after the months, Fox's prime-time ply presenting different ''I've had many people say Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, audience has been smaller points of view mad_e Fox to me we have forced people combined to dampen than the year before. 

Third quarter ends with stock slide 
Associated Press Stocks dipped after St. Louis Federal 0.51 percent, to 2,258.43. The S&P 
Reserve President William Poole said 500 remains near a 5 1/2-year high. 
NEW YORK -Wall Street ended a the Fed would continue to watch eco­Bonds, meanwhile, fell, with the stellar third quarter with a moderate nomic data as it sets interest rate poli­yield on the 10-year Treasury note at decline Friday, as the Dow Jones cy. His comments were seen as leaving 4.63 percent, up from 4.61 percent industrial average pulled back further the door open to additional interest Thursday. The dollar was hi'gher from record-high levels. The major rate hikes if inflation necessitates against other majer currencies. Gold indexes closed out the week, month them; traders had been hoping the prices fell. and quarter with gains. hikes were over. Crude oil futures rose. A barrel of 
Tire day's economic news was The Dow fell 39.38, or 0.34 percent, light crude settled at $62.91, up 15 gloomy and money managers made to 11,679.07. The blue chip index cents, on the New York Mercantile few bold moves as the quarter ended. briefly crossed its closing high on Exchange. 
"This is possibly a short-term top," Thursday, then fell back. It has yet to In economic news, the Commerce said Ken Tower, chief market strate­surpass its all-time trading high of Department said consumer spending gist for Schwab's CyberTrader, said of 11,750.28; both highs were set Jan 14, dropped in August by the largest the Dow's briefly surpassing its closing 2000. amount in nearly a year and core record ofl1,722.98 on Thursday. Broader stock indicators also fell. inflation for August, which excludes 
"The Dow has been flirting with an The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell volatile food and energy prices, was up all-time high; the market may be due 3.30, or 0.25 to 1,335.85, and the a worrisome 2.5 percent compared to for a little rest aswe enter October." Nasdaq composite index fell 11.59, or a year ago. 
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Monday, October 2, 2006 
Mobsters suspected of hatnpering anti-terroristn efforts 
FBI concerned financial opportunities may inspire collaboration between organized crime and al-Qaida leaders 
Associated Press WASHINGTON -The FBI's top counterterrorism official harbors lots of concerns: weapons of mass destruction, undetected homegrown terrorists and the possibility that old-fashioned mobsters will team up with al­Qaida for the right price. Though there is no direct evi­dence yet of organized crime col­laborating with terrorists, the first hints of a connection sur­faced in a recent undercover FBI operation. Agents stopped a man with alleged mob ties from selling missiles to an informant posing as a terrorist middleman. That case and other factors are heightening concerns about a real-life episode of the Sopranos teaming with Osama bin Laden's 
followers. 

"We are continuing to look for a nexus," said Joseph Billy Jr., the FBI's top counterterrorism official. "We are looking at this very aggressively." 
The new strategy involves an analysis of nationwide criminal investigations, particularly white collar crime, side by side with intelligence and terrorist activity. 
"We have developed an ability to look harder and broader in a greatly enhanced way to see if there is any crossover," Billy said in an interview with The Associated Press. 
Organized crime syndicates could facilitate money transfers or laundering, human smuggling, identification fraud or explosives and weapons acquisitions, offi­
cials said. The options are many for ter­rorists groups. 
There are the five reputed La Cosa Nostra families in New York, Russian criminal enterpris­es from Brighton Beach in the New York borough of Brooklyn to Moscow, and the emerging A<>ian crime syndicates that operate in many Islamic countries with al­Qaida offshoots. 
A contract study produced recently for the Pentagon and obtained by the AP warned that the potential for organized crime assisting terrorists is growing. 
"Although terrorism and organized crime are different phenomena, the important fact is that terrorist and criminal net­works overlap and cooperate in some enterprises," the study said. ''The phenomenon of the synergy of terrorism and organ­ized crime is growing because similar conditions give rise to both and because terrorists and organized criminals use similar approaches to promote their operations." 
The traditional mafia has high­ly developed networks for acquir­ing goods and services and money, all for a price. 
The mob's potential interest in helping a terrorist has nothing to do with ideology or sympathy but with greed, said Matt Heron, head of New York FBI's organ­ized crime unit. 
"They will deal with anybody, if they can make a buck," Heron said. "They will sell to a terrorist just as easily as they would sell to an order of Franciscan monks. It's a business relationship to them." 
"If the mob has explosives and a terrorist wants them and they have the money, they could become instant friends," he said. 
Pat D'Amuro, a retired senior FBI official and now chief execu­tive of Giuliani Security, said a Mafia boss once acknowledged that the mob would help terror­ists. 
"I am aware of a high-level Mafia figure, who was cooperat­ing with authorities, being asked if the Mafia would assist terror­ists in smuggling people into· Europe through Italy," D'Amuro said. "He said, 'The Mafia will help who ever can pay."' 

Certain leafy greens deemed to be safe for consumption 
Farmers begin to assess damage to business, return to harvesting in wake of national E. Coli bacteria breakout 
Associated Press es as they watched crops go to sents produce farmers in ered 34 brands in packages meet with farmers, they found 
waste. California and Arizona. with "Best if Used By" dates fields of overgrown spinach, 
SAN FRANCISCO -Relieved "Everybody's just trying to Last year's spinach crop in between Aug. 17 and Oct. 1. too big for the processors who farmers say they are heartened regroup," said Teresa Thorne, California was valued at Growers on California's had ordered them under con­by the government's announce­with industry group Alliance $258.3 million, and each acre Central Coast have another tract, farm bureau spokesman ment that it's safe to eat most for Food and Farming. lost amounts to a roughly four or five weeks to harvest Dave Kranz said. spinach, but they feel uneasy It's too early to tell how hard $3,500 hit for the farmer. before shutting down for the "Farmers are just waiting to about their industry's future, the industry was hit, but agri­The government gave a par­winter, when spinach produc­see if they'll have orders," knowing it may take time to culture experts said unprece­tial endorsement to the indus­tion moves to the southern val­Kranz said. win back public confidence. dented economic damage was try on Friday, with the U.S. leys and Arizona. Growers are trying to salvage 
During the two-week warn­likely. Food and Drug Administration . Because they stagger plant­what they can of their crops, ing about E. coli in fresh In California, where three­announcing that most spinach ings to allow for an uninter­but many say a loss of public spinach, growers said they re­quarters of all domestically is now "as safe as it was before rupted supply, many growers confidence is the biggest threat examined the safety of their grown spinach is harvested, this event." still have young greens matur­to the industry. Before the E. operations, anguished over the farmers could endure up to But the warning remains in ing. coli outbreak, health-conscious suffering of the 187 people $74 million in losses, according place for spinach recalled by When California Farm Americans had driven up sickened and one who died, to researchers working with Natural Selection Foods LLC of Bureau officials visited the demand for spinach in salads and weathered significant loss-Western Growers, which repre-San Juan Bautista, which cov-Salinas Valley on Friday to and other healthy meals. 
FEMA Katrina trailers finally cleared for use 
Units could be sold or donated to various groups 
LIVE AND STUDY 
Associated Press 
OPE, Ark. -Nearly 10,000 emergency housing trailers that were intended to be sent to the Gulf Coast to help Hurricane Katrina victims have been freed up for other uses. 
The Federal Emergency Management Agency parked the trailers at Hope Municipal Airport in the months following the hurricane. The agency came under criticism when the trailers sat empty. 
FEMA officials said that regula­tions against placing the homes in flood plains prevented their use on the Gulf Coast. 
On Friday, Congress approved a homeland security spending bill that included a provision allow­ing FEMA to sell or donate the trailers to municipalities, non­profit groups or American Indian tribes. 
Sen. Mark Pryor, D-Ark., said he would prefer that the homes had gone to hurricane victims as originally intended, but selling or donating them to cities or com­munity groups was better than letting them sit unused. 
"Allowing the homes to sit and deteriorate at the airport is an abuse of taxpayer funding and should not be an option," Pryor said in a statement. 
Pryor and Rep. Mike Ross, D­Ark., sponsored the measures in their respective chambers before the provision went to a confer­ence committee. Sen. Tim Johnson, D-S.D., added the option to convey the trailers to Indian tribes to house the home­less. 
"I am proud that the 9,778 fully furnished manufactured homes sitting in Hope, Arkansas, may fmally be put to good use," Ross said. "These are the kind of com­monsense solutions the American taxpayers expect and deserve." 
FEMA was directed to work with the Department of Interior to transfer the trailers to tribes, depending on need. 
Indian housing has been a problem for decades. According to a 2003 survey, an estimated 200,000 housing units are need­ed immediately in Indian country and approximately 90,000 Indian families are homeless or "under­housed." 
The Homeland Security Department's inspector general has said that U.S. taxpayers could be stuck with a mainte­nance bill of nearly $4 7 million a year for thousands of trailers that sit parked at sites around the country. 

ROME Information Sessions 
5-6 PM Tuesday, October 3 129 Hayes-Healy 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: wvvw.nd.edul-intlstud 
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, October 2, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Unhealthy ads riddle youth sho\Vs 
Marketers could be contributing to increasing rates ofchildhood obesity 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO --When Susan Connor's 3-year-old son started humming the McDonald's jingle, a research project was born. 
Connor knew where he'd heard the fast food giant's catchy tune -on the Disney Channel during "The Wiggles," a show for preschoolers. 
"He had absorbed that from watching TV," said Connor, whose study on food ads aimed at toddlers appears in the October issue of Pediatrics. "It would be a marketer's dream to know they were that success­ful." 
Messages for high-fat, high­sugar foods permeate program­ming for preschoolers on Nickelodeon, the study found. On the Disney Channel's shows for the youngest children and even on Public Broadcasting Service shows such as "Sesame Street," companies woo tots' loyalty by linking logos, licensed characters and slogans with fun and happiness. 
Disney and PBS promote themselves as ad-free, but fast food companies dominated sponsor messages during pro­gramming for toddlers, Connor found, making up 82 percent of sponsor messages on PBS pre­school programming and 36 percent of messages on Disney's toddler block of shows. 
The clown character Ronald McDonald appears with shows for toddlers on Disney and PBS. And the cartoon mouse Chuck 
E. Cheese pops up alongside preschool programming on PBS. 
Connor, research manager of Cleveland's Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital, said adults who haven't seen children's programs lately will be sur­prised by the findings. 
Advocates said the study adds to mounting evidence that food marketers are trying to hook the youngest children as lifelong customers. Promotions go both ways with TV characters from children's shows used on the packaging of sugary cereals, fruit-flavored snacks and other foods. 
Last week, the Federal Communications Commission announced plans to study links between the ads, viewing habits and the rise of childhood obesi­ty. For now, marketing of food to children is unregulated. 
Previous studies have found that kids as young as 3 who see TV ads are more likely to request and eat advertised foods high in fat, sodium and sugar. American children from infancy to age 6 watch an aver­age of one hour of TV daily, and 8-to-18-year-olds watch an average of three hours daily. They see roughly 40,000 TV ads a year. 
"It's very concerning when childhood obesity is a major public health problem that pre­school programs are still being sponsored by fast food restau­rants and food that's not healthy for children," said Susan Linn of Harvard Medical School and a co-founder of the Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood. She was not involved in the study. 
Diane Levin, of Wheelock College who is also a co-founder of the Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood, criticized Disney and PBS for breaching viewers' trust. She supports limits on marketing of junk food to children too young to make critical judgments about advertising. 
"PBS has a special responsi­bility," said Levin, who was not involved in the study. With fed­eral funding threatened, Levin said, PBS has searched for new revenue, including from spon-


Fire alarms failing to wake sleeping children 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Children in deep sleep awoke to record­ings of their mothers' voices ­calling them by name and order­ing them out of their bedrooms -even if they slept through the beeping sound a smoke alarm makes, according to a small study. 
The study reaffirms previous research that shows what works for adults doesn't always work for children, said Dr. Gary Smith, one of the co-authors. 
"Clearly, the strategy that has been tried and true and used for years ... fails miserably for chil­dren," said Smith, director of the Center for Injury Research and Policy at Columbus Children's Hospital. 
The study of 24 children ages 6 to 12 found that 23 awoke to the recorded voice of their mother saying "(Child's first name)! (Child's first name)! Wake up! Get out of bed! Leave the room!" Fourteen of the children also awoke to the traditional tone alarm. One child didn't wake up to either. 
The children who woke up to the voice did so at a median time of 20 seconds, compared with three minutes for those who woke up to the tone, according to the study by Columbus Children's Hospital researchers being released Monday in Pediatrics. 
Both alarms were created using a large speaker and sounds measuring 100 decibels, about four times louder than lev­els used in standard home alarms, Smith said. 
The next step, he said, is to determine why children respond­ed to the voice alarm differently, whether they were responding to their names, their mothers' voic­es or the frequency at which the sound was delivered, which was lower than the frequency of a beeping alarm. 
Nancy Baron of Columbus said her daughter Maddie, who was 8 at the time of the study, awoke to the voice alarm in 15 to 20 sec­onds but slept through the tone alarm, while neither alarm woke her son Rhys, who was 7. 
"I was totally shocked," Baron said. "It was actually a little frightening to think what would happen if this was real." 
Funding for the study came from a grant from the Ohio Department of Public Safety's Division of Emergency Medical Services and the Ohio Emergency Medical Services Board. 
sors who want to reach chil­dren. 
PBS spokeswoman Lea Sloan said sponsors' messages don't interrupt programs and don't go longer than two minutes, 17 seconds per hour. PBS doesn't allow price information, product comparisons, depictions of chil­dren's products or superlative claims, Sloan said. 
"The content of these mes­sages is either in support of public television or around learning, education and social development," Sloan said in an e-mail. "Licensed characters or mascots often reinforce a posi­tive educational message and their appearance is limited to five seconds." 
Nickelodeon spokesman Dan Martinsen said the channel has reduced food ads during its "Nick Jr." block of programs for preschoolers by 20 percent in the last two years. 
Disney Channel spokeswoman Patti McTeague said sponsor messages are accepted "only when they are connected to a pro-social message." 
Chuck E. Cheese spokes­woman Brenda Holloway said the pizza restaurant chain's play areas promote physical activity, as do its ads. 
"Realistically, our research shows most children come to Chuck E. Cheese's to play and have fun," Holloway wrote in an e-mail. "We think that our PBS sponsorship announcements do promote physical activity and social interaction through play and learning, which we believe are appropriate messages for preschool-age children." 
McDonald's did not respond to requests for comment in time for publication. 
Research finds flaw-in infant death stats 
Danger of premature births emphasized 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA -Scientists now say a third of infant deaths are due to premature births -a much larger per­
centage  than  previously  
thought.  
In  the  past,  "preterm  

birth" has been the listed cause of death in fewer than 20 percent of newborn fatal­ities. But that number should be 34 percent or more, said researchers at the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
That's because at least a dozen causes of newborn death are actually problems that go hand-in-hand with premature births, such as respiratory distress syn­drome caused by underde­veloped lungs. 
"This brings preterm birth, as a cause of death, to the kind of level that we think it deserves," said the CDC's Dr. Bill Callaghan, the lead author of a study appearing Monday in the journal Pediatrics. 
The revised statistic may lead to greater efforts to counsel pregnant women about taking care of them­selves and avoiding actions that can lead to preterm births -such as smoking and drug use. 
It also may help organiza­tions lobbying for more research into why some women who follow medical advice still have preterm babies. The March of Dimes is advocating to expand fed­
eral research into preterm labor and delivery and the care and treatment of pre­mature infants. 
At issue is how to label the causes of deaths for infants who die before they reach their first birthday. 
"Preterm birth" generally describes infants who are born before 37 weeks gesta­tion, and the term is also used as an official cause of death. Two-thirds of infant deaths occur in children who were preterm, but their cause of death is often attributed to one of the sev­eral specific problems that can occur in preterm babies. 
"The only way that an infant gets assigned ("preterm birth") is if there's nothing else on the death certificate," said Callaghan, a senior scientist in the CDC's maternal and infant health branch. "That may result in an underestimation of what the real problem is." 
Callaghan and other researchers examined birth and death certificates for about 28,000 U.S. infants that died in 2002. 
About 4,600 of those -or 17 percent -were attrib­uted only to preterm birth. But the researchers also grouped in more than 5,700 other deaths that were attributed to preterm-relat­ed conditions including res­piratory distress syndrome, brain hemorrhage and maternal complications such as premature rupture of membranes. 
Information.Meeting 



Cairo, Egypt 

Tuesday, Oct. 3, 2006 
125 Hayes Healy 5:30pm--7:00pm 
Application deadline: November 15, 2006 Apply on-line: www.nd.edu/-intlstud 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, October 2, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

You, me and the death penalty 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDIIDR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gotcumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOID EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisemems based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Ediwr in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

~ Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publisho:f Monday through Friday except during exam and V3Carion periods. A subscrip!:ion rQ The Ohscrver is. $100 for om: academic year; $55 for unc smtes~er. 
Th~ Obsnver is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining H:tll Send address corrco:ions to: Notre Dame. IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame: P.O. Box779 and additional mailing offic~. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, TN 465-J6.-0n9 
The Observer ls a member ofthe &:sodatc:d Press. All rcproduaion rights are 
,<S<IT«~, 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Eileen Duffy Chris Khorey 
Laura Greg Arbogast Baumgartner Ken Fowler Steve Kerins Scene 
Viewpoint Cassie Belek 
Lianna Brauweiler Graphics Madeline Nies 

American soldiers come home in body bags from Iraq on a morbidly regular basis. AIDS and civil strife tear apart Africa with ruthless impunity. Fresh lines are being drawn in the sand of the Middle East, divid­ing Israel and the Arab world. Unbridled violence dominates round­the-clock news and talking heads yell louder than ever at each other about anything that can be categorized as blue or red. So why in this world of mounting tensions, violence and casualties do I champion the abolition of the death penalty in the United States-which only claimed 60 lives in 2005 -over all these other issues? 
My simple answer is this: states are killing incarcerated criminals on behalf of its citizens and the execu­tions can stop whenever their respec­tive governors say so. It's going to take a lot more than a simple phone call to stop Hezbollah from hating Israel (contrary to President Bush's comments at the Great Eight summit). It will take decades to counter the damage that has been done by pover­ty, racism, disease and civil wars in Africa, and it will take more than interim election promises by chal­lengers and incumbents alike to solve the quagmire of Iraq. In contrast, all it takes to halt an execution, to stop the killing of an incarcerated person, is a phone call by a governor. That, to me, is what makes this issue constantly relevant: the degree of control and consent over the killing of an individ-

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

ual expressed by the public and state governments. The concept is startling; state governments are taking these people out of cells where they are locked up and killing them as an agent of U.S. citizens. Think about that for a moment. Sixty times last year, a pris­oner was taken from their controlled confinement, escorted to the waiting method of execution and killed. For you and for me. The states do this because this is what they think we want to have happen. Therefore, they are enacting our wishes as citizens. 
That being said, many of you are already formulating extremely reason­able questions and arguments in response to this line of thought: "Why should we have sympathy for these convicted murderers and rapists? Why is it our responsibility to speak for those who have committed heinous crimes against other human beings?" A good portion of you are likely in support of the death penalty and are internally reciting arguments based on the merits of execution as a legiti­mate means of delivering justice to those who have so brutally carried out these acts. 
I understand. 

I've had these thoughts many times and have held varying opinions until I really studied the topic and found myself with a steadfast stance against the death penalty. This opinion was grounded in facts and feelings alike, both in abstract morals and beliefs and in concrete statistics and studies. It is through a better understanding of the realities of the system of capital punishment, from trial through to the actual execution, that I arrived at the undeniable conclusion that capital punishment is inherently unjust, immoral and an unwarranted burden on states and their citizens alike. 

OBSERVER POLL 
Does Notre Dame need to increase the number of Catholic faculty members? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
~ 

Submit aLetter 

to the Editor at 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
My goal is not to convert you into a fellow critic of the death-penalty. We know too well that the inevitable, well-crafted response would sway you back in a few short days. My aim is not to throw statistics and numbers into this small space and claim that they speak for themselves. If that worked, this issue would be moot and this space could be filled with articles about fresh unexamined topics such as The Vagina Monologues and over­population. 
Instead, my intention is to invite all those interested in learning more about the death penalty and refining your beliefs through well-informed conversation to interact with the new campaign on campus: Notre Dame Against State Killing, or simply NO ASK. Its goal is to inform the Notre Dame community of valuable facts and opinions on the topic as well as facilitate continued discussion throughout the school year. Any inter­ested student, faculty or community member is invited to attend any meet­ing or lecture regardless of your stance. If the statistics, opinions and discussions presented don't sway you, you are encouraged to attend and explain your views. 
I for one am looking forward to a year of educated discussion on the death penalty and the insights, per­spectives and possible solutions that will inevitably arise from the Notre Dame community. 
Will McAuliffe is a senior Political Science major with a serious love for The Colbert Report and Fox News, Chris Wallace in particular. All letters ofsupport, disdain or otherwise rele­vant commentary should be forwarded to him at mcauliffe.4@nd.edu. Go Irish. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I am enough ofan artist to draw freely upon my imagination. Imagination is more important than knowledge. For knowledge is limited, whereas imagination embraces the entire world, stimulating progress, giving birth to evolution." 
Albert Einstein Nobel Laureate physicist 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Monday, October 2, 2006 page II 
LETIER TO THE EDITOR 
Walk the walk? 
Are we walking the walk? I'm an '88 Notre Dame graduate and keep asking myself this question over and over. A midlife crisis, perhaps; growing wiser, certainly not; finding the importance in life, huh?? I would ask everyone in the Notre Dame com­munity to ask yourselves this question: "Are you walking the walk, are you wearing your faith on your sleeve and in your actions or are you hidden behind societal pressures?" We are ND. Notre Dame is a Catholic com­munity, which was brought together by our faith. This faith should be leading us in everything we do and be demonstrated on and off the football field. Is it? 
Last week, I watched the Notre Dame vs. Michigan State football game with my young children. We watched with the same pas­sion we always do, and with a family new to our area who happened to be Michigan State fans and devout Catholics. Unfortunately, we were bombarded with repeated commercials for nearly naked women "desperate" to cheat on their hus­bands. Not one commercial, but several throughout the game. I could not believe ABC was using the Notre Dame football game to promote this trash. I assured this family, that this would outrage Notre Dame and that they would make a statement on Monday. I was sure the Notre Dame com­munity would take action. I am amazed nothing has come of this. Despite contacting high-ranking Notre Dame administration, ABC sports, ESPN and writing a letter to The Observer (which was not published), silence continues. Instead we hear of people not getting tickets, Notre Dame selling sea­son ticketc; to raise more money, the book­store making big money, a need for stadium improvement<; and the need for new run­ning backs. Have we become so numb to our surroundings that we do not see the messages being pushed on our society? Have we become complacent, and feel we can't make a difference? Are we really so focused on winning or losing a football game that we cannot see the devil lurking? Does the "entertainment" of these type of shows overshadow our moral judgment? 
You may see this as a minor deal and in the big picture with the state of our world, it is. However, if we are not willing to step for­ward, raise objection, walk the walk on issues such as these, how can we begin to attack the bigger threats to our future and our children's future? The myriad of issues which need moral leadership in our world are too numerous to count. 
We are ND. But what truly is Notre Dame? Is it a football team like most folks around our country think? Or is it a faith­filled community willing to take on the tough issues, no matter how big or how small? Next time you are in the stadium screaming, "We are ND" ask yourself what this means. Ask yourself what Notre Dame truly means and stands for. Notre Dame is much more than a football team. Notre Dame is a community of students, profes­sors, subway alumni and alumni who are willing to "walk the walk" of their faith. We are a community that demands more of our society and ourselves. 
I don't have the answers, am not attempt­ing to be righteous, and am far from per­fect. However, I have a strong faith and know that together as a community, Notre Dame can and should make a difference. We need to repair much more than Notre Dame Stadium in our world. 
Mick Connors MD alumnus Class of 1988 Oct. 1 

U-WIRE 
Stunt ping, not serving 
Republican candidates wary of associating themselves with an unpopular president are finding lower-profile ways to raise money through the Fundraiser-in-Chief. 
One strategy has been to close President Bush's fundraisers off from the press: Before May 2006, when Bush's approval ratings hadn't yet reached the Fahrenheit freezing point, 34 percent of his . fundraisers were closed. Since then, 59 percent have Catherme been closed, according to the Associated Press. Rampell 
This week, a second and more innovative strategy 
Princeton

began. White House press secretary Tony Snow 
University

announced that the fundraising circuit has been 
Daily

graced by a more PR-safe White House star: himself. 
Princetonian

In his White House press briefing on Wednesday, Snow said he was the first White House press secre­tary he knew of to participate in fundraisers. His participation, he said, was "unplowed ground." At first, I admit, I found the unplowed-ness of this ground surprising; the White House press secretary seems to be the perfect person to fundraise in the President's place. Who's better to pres­ent the President's face and agenda to eager, deep-pocketed donors than the guy who's so good at talking him up? Why hasn't anyone in this posi­tion, seemingly designed to defend the White House, gone on the stumping circuit? 
Because it's unethical. 

Firstly, Snow's participation in fundraisers may constitute a misuse of taxpayer dollars. While Snow has said that the Republican National Committee will pay for his travel and accommodations at fundraising events, it's unclear whether the RNC will remunerate taxpayers for salaried time Snow is using to stump rather than serve as White House press secretary. 
More importantly, the White House press secretary is a nonpartisan civil servant whose employer is the state and not the President or the President's party. His job is to collect information about what's happening inside the White House and dispense it to the media. Sure, at daily press briefings with the White House press corps, he also fields questions about White House policy and plans. Sure, he may spin this information to appease the man who hired him, but his primary responsibility, like that of the Cabinet members, is helping the government run more effectively, not gilding the President or his party. 
This column originally appeared in the Sept. 29 edition of the The Daily Princetonian, the daily publication at Princeton University. The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 





CENE

page 12 Monday, October 2, 2006 

Dear Must See TV, I will never abandon thee 
Dear NBC Must See TV Thursday, 
In light of your apparent comeback this year, I feel I must express my con­gratulations and relief that you are beginning your return to glory. I know it's been hard for you ever since "Friends" left you, but I wanted to let you know that I never gave up hope. You stood by my side as I grew from a girl into a woman, and for that I could never abandon you. But in order to achieve a better future, we must look to our past for mistakes made and lessons learned. And Must See TV Thursday, you've made quite a few mis­takes. 
You were so strong for so long. You created the perfect formula for Thursday night success -two hours of comedy plus one hour of drama. With comedies like "The Cosby Show," "Family Ties," "Cheers," "A Different World," "Frasier," "Seinfeld," "Will & Grace" and "Friends," you dominated Thursday nights. 
Then you always wrapped up the evening with dramas like "Hill Street Blues," "LA Law" and ultimately "ER." These were truly golden times. 
You then survived the loss of "Seinfeld," but another dreary inevitabil­ity was just around the corner ­"Friends" would end sooner or later. You needed to find a new comedy that would anchor your Thursday 8:00 p.m. time 


Cassie Belek 
Assistant Scene Editor 
slot. You tried to find it in the Americanized British import "Coupling" 
that sounded remarkably similar to the Generation X phenomenon "Friends" but you butchered that show like. you had butchered so many before it. Before you knew it, "Friends" was in its last season and you took an enormous risk by scheduling its spin-ofT "Joey" in its 
vacant time slot. 
This is when the death knell tolled. 
Not only did you assume that "Joey" would retain the massive "Friends" audience, but you took an even greater misstep when you abandoned your air­tight formula and scheduled "The Apprentice" in the 9:00p.m. time slot. You now had one hour of comedy, one hour of reality and one hour of drama. This cosmic unbalance plummeted NBC to fourth place and I blame you. I was confused and hurt because I didn't understand why you would abandon your roots for Donald Trump's non­toupee. 
You finally figured out your folly, but not before you lost viewers to other net­works. Now you're trying to recover, and I hope you do. But you're not done mak­ing mistakes yet. I'd like to give you my advice if you let me. I may not be a net­work executive, but I know what I want. And what I want is probably what other people want. 
First, you need to bring back your two­hour block of comedy. The fact that you even consider Howie Mandel as worthy to appear on Must See TV is insulting. Next, drop "ER" and replace it with "Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip." Although "Studio 60" was originally set to appear before "ER," you chickened out and took it off Thursdays when you found out it had to compete with "Grey's Anatomy." I never thought I would see the day when you wouldn't stand your ground. Shame on you. 
Finally, move "The Oflice" to the 8:00 
p.m. time slot. It's your strongest come­dy, which I hope you figured out when it won the Emmy for Outstanding Comedy Series. Next, schedule "30 Rock," "My Name is Earl" and "Scrubs" in that order. This leaves you with two solid hours of comedy, while giving "30 Rock" a chance to grab the audience watching "The Oflice." 
I hope this helps, Must See TV Thursday. You're doing better. You really 


Western reflects changing times of the late 1960s 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Scene Editor 
"The Wild Bunch" signaled the end of an era -the passing of the classic Western. Symbolically arriving at the end of the 1960s, its violence was under­pinned by an elegiac tone that ripples with an air of tragic inevitability. 
Easily director Sam Peckinpah's ("Straw Dogs") finest film, "The Wild Bunch" fol­lows a rag­

tag group of . The Wild Bunch men who have been aging cow­
through a great deal
H)
boys trying together, and both recog­
~f'p.>c):;
to recover ~l~ nize that their glory is
c 

from a failed coming to a close. payroll rob-Much of the credit for 
bery. Led by When: Sunday, Oct. 8, 4:00 p.m. 
the film's success must

Pike Bishop Where: The Browning Cinema, DPAC be attributed to its direc­
(William Holden), the Bunch includes Dutch (Ernest Borgnine), Angel (Jaime Sanchez) and Lyle and Tector Gorch (Warren Oates and Ben Johnson). When one of their own is captured, the Bunch is faced with a difficult decision. 
When first released, "The Wild Bunch" was controversial for its ferocious vio­lence. Taking cues from Sergio Leone's Spaghetti Westerns and other counter­cultural pieces like "Bonnie and Clyde," the bloodshed is far more prevalent than in previous films -by no means does "The Wild Bunch" contain the subdued, implied violence of John Ford pictures. Instead, the film opens and closes with viciously memorable firefights, the latter of which has become one of the most famous scenes in cinematic history. While the violence seems relatively tame by today's standards, it was revolution­ary in 1969. 
The film is anchored by Holden's quiet­ly dignified performance as Pike. In fact, "The Wild Bunch" may be the actor's finest work, which is no small feat con­sidering his resume, which includes clas­sics like "Sunset Boulevard," "The Bridge on the River Kwai," "Network" and "Stalag 17," for which he won the Oscar for Best Actor in a Leading Role. Ernest Borgnine is almost as good as Dutch, Pike's right-hand man. Pike and Dutch are 
tor, who never again equaled these heights. Peckinpah became known as a controversial direc­tor because of the violent content of his films, but violence is not the defining factor of "The Wild Bunch." Instead, Peckinpah knows he has 


an automobile for the first time. "The Wild Bunch" is about men who recog­nize change, but are themselves unable to adapt. The pall 

great material and a great Peckinpah became known of that self-aware­cast, and allows those ele­ness hangs over the
as a controversial 
ments to shine, though his film, which is what
director because of the
steady directorial hand is gives it an elegiac evident throughout the pic­violent content ofhis tone, though these ture. men are unwilling
films, but violence is not
"The Wild Bunch" is, or perhaps
the defining factor of "The
above all, a film about unable -to go qui­changing times. A reflection Wild Bunch.,, etly into that good of the late 1960's turmoil in night. Peckinpah's which it.was made, the movie continual­film transcends its Western origins and ly points out the death of a golden era -becomes a commentary about the end of Pike has difficulty mounting his horse an era. and the Bunch is shocked when they see "The Wild Bunch" is a great Western, 
Photo courtesy 
are. The public stopped planning your funeral. Just embrace your formula once again and you may be able to give Grissom and McDreamy a run for their money. Faithfuls like me will stand by your side because when it comes to com­edy, we know you can deliver. We may even forgive you for that season and a half of "Joey." 
Faithfully yours, 
Cassie Belek 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
one of the best. Ranked the 80th great­est film of all-time by The American Film Institute, it remains an enduring classic. At its best, the Western was always a dark, tragic genre, as exemplified by films like "The Searchers" and "Unforgiven." Yet few films, let alone Westerns, resonate as strongly or as sadly as "The Wild Bunch," which is an enduring testament to the film and an enduring testament to its times. 
"The Wild Bunch" will be screened this Sunday in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center as part of the PAC Classic 100 !ilm series. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 




NSIDER 
O
THE 

Monday, October 2, 2006 BSERVER Notre Dame 35, Purdue 21 
Full steam ahead 
Irish dominate Boilermakers on the ground, through the air in 35-21 win 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Wrirer 
Charlie Weis finally got his wish. 
Notre Dame confused the Purdue defense with a variety of straight runs, passes and play­action fakes -something the Irish had failed to do in the past two games -en route to a 35­21 victory over the Boilermakers Saturday. 
Irish quarterback Brady Quinn completed 29-of-38 passes for 316 yards with two touchdowns, and running back Darius Walker pounded, ducked and wove his way to 146 yards on 31 carries -both season highs for the jun­ior. 
Walker's six touches on Notre Dame's opening, seven-play drive set the tone for the rest of the game. After keeping Purdue on its heels with four runs and two screens to Walker, Weis called a play-fake and freshman wide receiver George West took the end-around 14 yards to the end zone for the game's first points. 
Notre Dame moved the ball with relative ease throughout the game, finishing with 169 yards on the ground -more than the team gained in its last two games combined. 
"I just felt that the last two weeks, as the play caller, that we had to give up on the run­ning game because we got behind," Weis said. "I just made ed punts after the initial Irish Carlson block five yards past the 398 yards and two touchdowns. for-16. We were averaging about a commitment, along with my score, and the Boilermakers tied line of scrimmage. Lymon's eight catches led to two two percent for the last couple staff and my players, that we the game at 7-7 with a six-play, "Obviously [Walker] was get­scores and 238 yards, setting a of weeks." were going to make the running 86-yard touchdown drive culmi­ting a lot of work in, and you get record for most receiving yards By comparison, Purdue con­game go no matter what hap­nated by an 8-yard run by tail­to see how productive he is and by an Irish opponent. verted just 4-of-14 third-down pened." back Kory Sheets. how special he is," Quinn said. But for all of Purdue's success­attempts. 
But that commitment to the "It's important to come away For the second straight sea­es, they could never close the Notre Dame's defense forced a running game showed no signs with points in the red zone," son, Quinn torched Purdue in a gap against the turnover for the of slowing down the explosive Boilermakers coach Joe Tiller 28-point first half for the Irish. Irish. "Rhema and I were able fourth straight Irish air attack. said. "It's not always critical to He entered the break 18-of-22 Quinn found game, this time
to communicate. If he 

Irish wide receiver Rhema score a touchdown when you're for 190 yards, including a 6-McKnight in the a fumble both 
saw something, ifI

McKnight sliced through the down there, but you need yard touchdown pass to end zone for a forced and 114th-ranked Purdue secondary, points." McKnight that gave Notre Dame second time saw something [and] recovered by and Quinn found him time after The Irish responded to those a 21-7 lead with 8:50 left in the with 9:38 left in we made a big play cornerback time. McKnight had 10 catches points with a continued commit-second quarter. the third, a 12-Terrail Lambert.
out ofit."

for 120 yards ment to the "[Working with the wide outs yard score that With Notre -both sea­run in their in practice] played a huge part capped off the Dame ahead 21­
"I just made a commitment,
son highs -next posses­in it," Quinn said. "Rhema and I day for the Irish Brady Quinn 7 but Purdue and two along with my staffand sion. And were able to communicate. If he offense and put Irish quarterback driving, Lambert touchdowns. my players, that we Walker's saw something, if I saw some­Notre Dame jarred the ball Walker was gains early in thing [and] we made a big play ahead 35-14. That would be loose of Purdue tight end Dustin
were going to make the
second in the the drive set out of it." more than enough for the Irish. Keller at the Notre Dame 31-yard receiving col­running game go no up big­The Irish scored their final Notre Dame converted on 8-line and fell on the ball. The umn with nine matter what happened." yardage plays points of the half on a Jeff of-14 third downs and twice on ensuing series ended with catches for 73 downfield. Samardzija 6-yard run on a fake two fourth-down attempts, help­Samardzija's touchdown run. yards. Tight end field goal with 1:22 remaining ing the Irish nearly double the Lymon caught his second
Charlie Weis 
"Week to John Carlson before the break. But Purdue cut Boiler-makers' time of posses­touchdown pass of the game to week, teams Irish coach caught a pass the Notre Dame lead to 28-14 sion. Notre Dame had the ball cut the Boilermaker deficit to 14 are going to over the mid­seconds later when Boilermak­for 38:01 to Purdue's 21:59. with 7:16 left in the fourth. But give you different things and dle for 25 yards, and wide ers quarterback Curtis Painter "Well [third-down production] Purdue didn't have a comeback basically give and take away receiver Rhema McKnight hit Selwyn Lymon deep and was significantly better this in store. certain things," Quinn said. "You caught one for 11. Walker Lymon broke two tackles to go game," Weis said. "I include just want to utilize that." capped the drive with a 14-yard 88 yards for the score. those couple of fourth downs in Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at 
Purdue and Notre Dame trad-touchdown run, aided by a Painter finished 23-of-46 for there as well so ... we were 10-jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Darius Walker  31  Jeff Samardzija's touchdown run  "I think that for the most part that  
the game looked like it was pretty  
The Irish running back gained I 4 6  Notre Dame first downs against  Charlie Weis called a fake field goal  well under control at 35-I4."  
yards on the ground and 73 through  Purdue. The Irish had 22 in the  with less than two minutes left in the  
the air as his effectiveness opened up  first halfalone..  first half, and Samardzija's score put  Charlie Weis  
the passing game for Notre Dame..  the Irish ahead by 2 I.  Irish coach  

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 2, 2006 

report card 
A 
quarterbacks: Quinn had one of the best games of his career. He completed over 75 percent of his passes, including two 
touchdowns, and had nearly perfect 
timing with his receivers. 
A  running backs: Walker had his best game since his performance against Stanford last season. His 146 yards on the ground opened up the Irish air  
attack, and he added nine catches.  
A- receivers: Aside from one McKnight drop in the end zone, the receivers had a nearly flawless game. McKnight caught 10 passes, Carlson had five  
and Samardzija added four.  
offensive line: The interior offensive  
8  linemen dominated Purdue's defensive line, aiding Walker's big game. The only drawback for the  
unit was its four sacks allowed.  
defensive line: The Irish held Purdue to  
c  just 92 yards on the ground but failed to sack Painter. The line applied pressure at times, but not nearly  
enough, as Painter found receivers  
both short and long.  
8  linebackers: Joe Brockington played a · solid game with Travis Thomas out with a rib injury, and Maurice Crum was solid  
as usual stopping the run.  
defensive backs: Painter threw all over  
C- the Notre Dame secondary, compiling 398 yards. The worst play for the unit was Selwyn Lymon's 88-yard  
touchdown that cut the Irish lead to  
14 just before the half.  
special teams: Zbikowski got hurt  
c  because he didn't fair catch a punt when it was necessary, kickoffs were poor and Gioia missed a 48-yard field  
goal with the wind at his back. But  
Price had another solid game.  
A  coaching: Charlie Weis wanted to run the ball, and he proved it early. Weis called two trick plays and a mis-direction on a fourth-and-one that showed just  
how much control he has on the offense.  
overall: Notre Dame was nearly  

impeccable on offense, but the 
• defensive unit still has to make
3 26 

a lot of progress. 

adding up the numbers 
National ranking for Irish punter Geoff Price in yards per punt. The senior's 47.48 average is just 
1

ahead Boise State punter Kyle Stringer's 47.36. 
103 
Yards rushing Darius Walker gained in the first half. Walker hadn't broken 100 yards in any of Notre Dame's first four games. 
Brady Quinn's passer efficiency 

163 • 54 
rating for Saturday's game. His rating for the season is 139.63. 

14 
Points Notre Dame scored in the first quarter. Before Saturday, the Irish had scored just 10 points in four first quarters this season. 
Touches by Notre Dame running back Darius 
4o 

Walker. Walker had 31 carries and nine receptions. 
Yards Quinn has thrown for in four starts against Purdue. The average


1,485 

is 371.25 yards per game. 
Yards freshman George West ran for his first 
14 

career touchdown, an end-around in a three-receiver formation. 
16:02 
Notre Dame's time of possession advantage Saturday. 

Notre Dame spent four weeks of the 2006 season searching for the balance on offense it left somewhere in Palo Alto, Calif. last year. Well, the Irish found it Saturday -and in doing so, reminded the country why they were con­sidered such a juggernaut heading into the season. 
For the second straight year, Notre Dame clicked on all cylinders against an overmatched Purdue team. This was the perform­ance Irish fans have been waiting for after four weeks of searching for an identity. 
The passing game was precise (Quinn was 29-of-38 for 316 yards and two touchdowns), the receivers were in sync with their quarterback (McKnight had 10 catches for 120 yards), and the offensive line got great push against the Boilermakers defensive line. 
And then, of course, there was Darius Walker. 
Walker might have had his best game in a Notre Dame uniform given the circumstances. The Irish needed to establish a consistent running game after a three-week stretch in which they gained a total of 161 yards on the ground-some­thing Walker seemed to take per­sonally given his first half perform­ance. 
Walker touched the ball on Notre Dame's first six plays from scrim­mage and finished with 31 carries for 146 yards and a touchdown. He also had nine catches for 73 yards, and was on pace for over 300 total yards at halftime. 
When a team runs the ball, it con­trols the clock. And when it controls the clock, and subsequently the momentum, it's easier to win the 

Bob Griffin 
Sports Writer 
game. That's why Notre Dame get­
ting 40 carries for the first time this season was so meaningful. 
With Walker dictating the pace, Quinn was able to settle into his most efficient performance of the season. Quinn looked comfortable right from the beginning, and the first-half communication problems that hampered the Irish quarter­back and his receivers at Michigan State were absent. 
Granted, Quinn was picking apart an inexperienced secondary that was overmatched by McKnight's simultaneous strength in running hitch routes and going up for deep balls. But with the accuracy he was delivering the football, many pol­ished secondaries would have encountered similar problems. 
What's more, Notre Dame's offense compensated for defensive problems that plagued the team throughout the game. The Irish gave up 498 yards of total offense and allowed Purdue receiver Selwyn Lymon to go for 238 yards and two touchdowns. 
Charlie Weis and Rick Minter will look at this tape knowing that 398 yards passing from an inexperi­enced quarterback (Saturday was Curtis Painter's lOth career start) is a concern. Notre Dame needs to find a way to put more consistent pres­sure on opposing quarterbacks so they have less time to run through their progressions. 
The Irish will likely address this in practice this week before it begins a two-game stretch against the pass friendly Pac-1 0 conference. 
But the most important thing to emerge from Saturday was this sense of offensive consistency and balance. Notre Dame's defense is still a work in progress, but given the team's upcoming schedule, it has plenty of time to work out its kinks. 
And the offense will have ample time to build upon Saturday's progress. 
Over the next seven weeks, Notre Dame plays Stanford, UCLA, Navy, North Carolina, Air Foree and Army -not exactly a murderers row of talent. The six teams are a com­bined 12-14. 
What happens in these six games should make Notre Dame fans for­get about its early season struggles. 
Written off by many experts as the front-runner for the Heisman Trophy, Quinn will build on his 13 touchdowns quickly in this time. Thirty-five touchdowns in 11 games (an additional 22 in the following six) won't be out of reach. 
Jeff Samardzija-who has been limited to some extent this season ­should get his reception totals up from the 27 he has so far this sea­son. 
And Walker, who looked slow and indecisive for three weeks leading up to Saturday, suddenly has put himself in position to have another 1 ,000-yard season. With weaker defenses than the Irish saw against Georgia Tech, Penn State and Michigan, Walker has the tough opponents behind him. 
Why is all this important? 
Because once this six-game stretch is over, Notre Dame will face its biggest challenge of the season -a trip to Southern California. The Trojans are getting better with each week, and using the momentum from their tight win at Washington State, they'll likely roll through the rest of the Pac-1 0 season. 
But Notre Dame, following its offensive execution against Purdue, could also enter the game with the same confidence that comes from eight straight victories. And if the Irish can muster the same type of balance it found Saturday, that game could get interesting. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgri!fi3@nd. edu 

Monday, October 2, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Walker runs all over Boilermakers 
Tailback shows no sign of slump, gains 219 total yards 
By ERIC RETTER Associate Sports Editor 
Brady Quinn threw for 316 yards and two touchdowns, and Rhema McKnight caught a career-high ten passes for 120 yards. But running back Darius Walker carried the offense Saturday. 
Walker carried the ball 31 times for 146 
yards -both season highs ~ and rushed 
for a touchdown in No. 12 Notre Dame's 
35-21 win over Purdue. His yardage total 
surpassed his combined totals of the last 
three games, where he had managed only 
128 yards on 41 carries, and it marked his 
10th career 100-yard game. 
The performance was his second-best 
career rushing total and his first 100-yard 
game since the 2005 regular season fmale 
against Stanford when he picked up a per­
sonal-best 186 yards on 35 carries. But his 
effectiveness wasn't limited to the ground. 
Walker also caught 9 passes for 73 yards 
-both career highs -and he is now tied 
with wide receiver Rhema McKnight for 
the tnam lead in receptions with 32. 
"I definitely think I got into a rhythm as 
the game went on, especially being able to 
touch it from different facets [of the 
offense]," Walker said. HV PHAM/The Observer 
Walker touched the ball on the first play Irish running back Darius walker sprints past Boilermakers linebacker Jared from scrimmage and didn't stop getting it 
Zwilling. Walker had 146 yards rushing and 73 receiving in Notre Dame's 35-21 win. 
until the end of the game, by which point 
he had racked up 41 touches and account­allowed to finish the drive. [Samardzija] and Chase [Anastasio] up a 
ed for 219 of the Irish's 454 total offensive 'To be honest I always want the ball, but whole heck of a lot." 
yards. that's the great thing about our offense, Weis echoed McKnight's remarks. 
"It's nice, it's really nice [to get ball so anyone can get it in," he said. "[When] now they're going to look to 
much]," he said. "At the same time, it's a Irish coach Charlie Weis said he planned stopping the run, your play actions and 
lot of work, running the ball, catching the to run the ball as much Notre Dame did on things like that, now they become a little 
ball, blocking, all of that, but it's definitely Saturday every week. easier to complete," he said. 
a running back's responsibility and I defi­"I think that when it's all said and done, Walker credited his teammates for his 
nitely welcome the challenge." every time you play the game, you like to individual accomplishments. 
Walker's success changed the fortunes have balance," Weis said. "When you "I really give kudos to my offensive line," 
of an Irish ground game that has strug­come out there and say you're going to he said. ''I'm really just a guy who gets the 
gled. establish the run and nm it on every ball and runs through space." 
"It was very important to me [to have a down, you usually have a good chance." He also understood that success of the 
strong game]." Walker said. "We really Despite Notre Dame's struggles with the Notre Dame offense rested on more than 
wanted to make a conscious effort to start ground game entering Saturday's contest, just him improving. 
fast so we could work on our running Purdue coach Joe Tiller wasn't surprised "It has to be the focus of 11 players out 
game and work on our offense, and I think that Notre Dame elected to pound it away there," he said. "Each player knows that 
we achieved that." with Walker. they have to do their job and do it right." 
Walker was the primary reason the Irish "They really like their tailback," he said. Walker took a brief moment to celebrate 
got off to a strong start on Saturday, as he "I think I would let the big dog hunt if I the performance. Asked if the Purdue 
got the ball in 11 of Notre Dame's first 12 were in their corner." defensive unit hit him harder than the 
plays from scrimmage. During Notre As a by-product of Walker's success, the gauntlet the Notre Dame running backs 
Dame's initial drive, Walker accounted for pressure on the Notre Dame passing game run through during practice, he had a 
every yard except the final 11 that fresh­abated, and the Irish air attack excelled. quick answer. 
man George West picked up on an end­"It opened the [air] game up tremen­"Definitely the gauntlet," he said. 
around that went for a score. dously," McKnight said. "Darius having a 
But Walker was not upset that he wasn't big game definitely set me, Jeff Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

Thomas sits after injury in MSU game 
Brockington replaces senior linebacker, Anastasio and Walls fill in for missing Grimes 
caught 22 passes for 301 against Purdue. went into the breeze. By JAY FITZPATRICK yards against Michigan State "I think two balls went in Sports Writer in 1999. Chase's direction yesterday," McKnight moves up all-time 
"Selywn had a nice game," Weis said. "I think that it all reception list 
Irish senior linebacker Joe Purdue coach Joe Tiller said. depends on how the cover­Rhema McKnight's 10 Brockington started in place "He was not featured going age goes to where the ball catches Sunday give him 135 of Travis Thomas Saturday. into the game [but] he was ends up going. But I don't for his career, good for 
Notre Dame coach Charlie open and he caught the think you noticed him in a fourth all-time for the Irish. Weis said Thomas was ball." negative vein either." He moved past Ken MacAfee, injured during the last play But Weis said he is sticking Derrick Mayes and Maurice of the Michigan State game Grimes out with injury with Grimes as the kick Stovall on the all-time catch and it was a game-time deci­Irish sophomore receiver returner and No. 3 receiver. list for Notre Dame. sion to sit him out. Weis said and kick returner David "I told [Grimes] I would go Tom Gatewood tops the list an MRI on Thomas' ribs was Grimes missed the game with him, that he deserves to with 157 career receptions. negative but he kept Thomas with an injury suffered in be a No. 3 receiver and an out of the game for precau­practice and was replaced by elite kick returner," Weis 1966 team honored tionary reasons. Chase Anastasio as the No. 3 said. Notre Dame officially hon­
"We felt that the safest receiver and Darrin Walls as ored the 1966 N a tiona! thing to do would be we the kick returner. Burkhart makes debut Championship team before would wait until game-time Weis said Grimes was Freshman kicker Ryan the game. with him, but you know he questionable all week and, Burkhart made his Notre The 1966 Irish team fin­just didn't feel right," Weis like the call with Thomas, Dame debut on the kickoff ished with a 9-0-1 record said. came down to a game-time following Notre Dame's first that year with the only tie 
decision. Filling in, Anastasio score of the game. Filling in coming against Michigan Lymon has record day had one catch for 15 yards for kickoff specialist Bobby State Nov. 19. The team gave 
Selwyn Lymon's 238 and Walls returned two kick­Renkes, who strained a mus­up just 38 points in 10 games receiving yards was the most offs for 44 yards. cle in his leg during practice while averaging 36 points ever by an Irish opponent Anastasio's 15-yard recep­this week, Burkhart kicked per game on offense. and the second most in tion in the second quarter off every time the Irish were Purdue history, behind only was his first in the 2006 sea­kicking with the wind, and former Boilermakers receiv­son and his first reception senior Carl Gioia kicked off ContactChris Khorey at er Chris Daniels. Daniels since Oct. 2, 2004, also the one time Notre Dame ckhorey@nd.edu 
•
scoring suminary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 
Purdue  7  7  0  1  21  
Notre Dame  14  14  7  0  35  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 7, Purdue 0 
George West11-yard run with 11:46 remain· ing. (Carl Gioia kick) Drive: 7 plays, 70 yards, 3:14 elapsed 
Notre Dame 7, Purdue 7 
Kory Sheets 7-yard run with 3:35 remaining. (Chris Summers kick) Drive: 6 plays, 86 yards, 3:10 elapsed 
Notre Dame 14, Purdue 7 
Darius Walker 14-yard run with 0:42 remain· ing. (Gioia kick) Drive: 7 plays, 78 yards, 2:53 elapsed 
Second quarter Notre Dame 21, Purdue 7 
Rhema McKnight6-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 8:50 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 10 plays, 72 yards, 4:04 elapsed 
Notre Dame 28, Purdue 7 
Jeff Samardzija 5-yard run with 1:22 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 12 plays, 66 yards, 5:46 elapsed 
Notre Dame 28, Purdue 14 
Selwyn Lymon 88-yard reception from Curtis Painter. (Summers kick) Drive: 2 plays, 88 yards, 0:32 elapsed 
Third quarter Notre Dame 35, Purdue 14 
McKnight12-yard reception from Quinn. (Gioia kick) Drive: 8 plays, 64 yards, 4:05 elapsed 
Fourth quarter Notre Dame 35, Purdue 21 
Lymon 9-yard pass from Painter. (Summers kick) Drive: 10 plays, 87 yards, 2:49 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 

rushing yards 

passing yards 

return yards 

18·92  rushes-yards  43·138  
23·46·0  comp-att-int  29·38·0  
6·131  punts-yards  3·60  
H  fumbles-lost  0·0  
8·74  penalties-yards  5·36  
24  first downs  33  

passing 
Painter 23·46·0 Quinn 29-38·0 
rushing  
Sheets  7-47  Walker  31-146  
Painter  6·24  Prince  2·7  
Taylor  3-21  West  1-11  
Camacho  1·3  Samardzija  1·5  
Bryant  1 • ( -3)  McConnell  1·0  

receiving  
Lymon  8·238  McKnight  10·120  
Keller  5-36  Walker  9-73  
Bryant  3·41  Carlson  5·62  
Orton  2-35  Samardzija  4-46  
Sheets  2·2  Anastasio  1·15  

tackles 
Spencer Dick Vinson Avril Keglar Hall Magee Ferguson Scott Adams 15 
10 9 8 6 6 5 4 
4 
3 
Lambert Ndukwe Ferrine Crum Zbikowski Landri Brockington Abiamiri Laws Walls 
11 
8 5 5 
4 
3 3 
2 
2 
1 


page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 2, 2006 
KATE FENLONffhe Observer 
BEATING THE DRUM 
Brady Quinn tore through the Purdue secondary for 316 yards and 

two touchdowns en route to a 35-21 Notre Dame victory. It was the third straight year Quinn threw for over 300 yards again<>t the Boilermakers. Darius Walker also got in the mix, gaining 219 yards­146 rushing and 73 receiving. The Irish secondary had a hard time con­taining quarterback Curtis Painter and wide receiver Selwyn Lyrnon, who hooked up for two touchdowns and 238 yards-the most yards ever by an opposing wide receiver. But it wasn't enough for the Boilermakers, as The World's Biggest Drum went home with a loss. 
PAMELA lOCKffhe Observer KATE FENLONffhe Observer Top left, Irish receiver Jeff Samardzija runs for a touchdown on a fake field goal. Top right, Notre Dame safety David Bruton tackles Purdue punt returner Royce Adams. Center, Irish defensive back Terrail Lambert lays a hit on Boilermakers receiver Dorien Bryant while Maurice Crum (40) and Chinedum Ndukwe converge on the play. Bottom left, Darius Walker cuts through the Purdue defense. Bottom right, Irish receiver George West celebrates his first-quarter end-around touchdown run. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Monday, October 2, 2006 
page 13 

Downloading ruins full album experience 
Songs and cover art ignored with steady spread of digital music 
By MICHELLE FORDICE 
Scene Writer 

Getting music is so easy nowadays it doesn't even take the effort of standing up. Whip out a credit card, connect to the Internet, click a button and there it is -downloaded and ready for you listen to. 
Downloading has changed the face of the music industry -the famous Billboard magazine has adjusted its rat­ing system to account for digital sales, pirating of music still puts music produc­ers on edge, and even Wal-Mart has launched a system for buying digital music (sorry Apple aficionados, its 88 cent songs are not compatible with your iPod). 
Consumers can get music faster, cheap­er and much more conveniently by downloading instead of purchasing an actual CD. But this has also changed the way we experience and how we listen to music. Our auditory culture seems to be regressing to a time where hit-singles dominated sales and determined the music industry's direction. People are lis­music players, but they mostly utilize the device's shuffle features. The entire con­cept of an iPod shuffle is not to listen to any album, but to listen to a mixture of randomly selected songs. Aptly, the Grammy's only awarded album art dur­ing its heights, from 1959-1961 and 1969-1973. This trend in reducing albums to singles sadly breaks the integrity of these albums. 

Sadly, album art has fallen to the way­
side. Today's downloads and the majority
at.clo:E\IIId.P.-._.A*Inlllll
!~&r..a..:~< 
s.n.flr'llCllllkiiM~ 
of COs don't provide the same memo­

k 0 .. 0 """""'"' 
s.u.afw~~b ElenHIIr'pp c..p.s.n..t~lbd.... l ..lto,_L..,.~-_.., 
rable images that Pink Floyd's "The Dark 
• 
V~YoMI ~

!=-lllclf'oW"-7.F..-.n
.,._ ,..,_ 
Side of the Moon" or the Beatie's "Sgt.
L OJI$IIIIt' 
'"'"""'-­
l:~o-1 
Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" still

f:-~ .......---~,­
..-­
do. Neither does modern album art bring

!i~JQ9 ·-­
up as much controversy as the Rolling
,.....,.,.,_ 
...,.,._, 
Stone's "Sticky Fingers" or as much spec­
,.,_..,... 
ulation as the Beatles' "Abbey Road" and its supposed "Paul is Dead" clues. The -,.,.....,_ 
;e.nfdda
~-•**' 
cover art created for the soundtrack of 
' ..."""" 
"South Pacific" in 1949 by Alex

' """"'"-' 0 ...r_ i§ l] 
; ttlltii'Hin:oct; c....-........._ 
·---·­'-
Sterinweiss, who first proposed album
,_..__........t._.

·--; ---·­.....
'*hllllhdt 
covers to Columbia in 1939, remains the 
Photo courtesy of mikeshardware.com 
second longest graphic in continuous

iTunes has made accessing legal music even easier, but instead of trying new 
use, just short of the famous Coca-Cola 

music, consumers download and listen to the same songs over and over. 
bottle. Album art was first cut in size when 

tening to albums less and less, instead ditional Big Four music labels -EMI, buying single songs. Sony BMG and Werner Music -have 
Even cover art is losing its importance been pushing Apple to convert its iTunes as music loses its tangibility. Downloa­to follow tiered pricing-instead of sim-ding is making the ply charging one dollar per acquisition of music song -in order to compete easier, but it's also Our auditory culture more equitably with their denying many artists sales. And though Max Hole,
seems to be regressing
the ability to present a an executive vice president of unified and multi-sen­to a time where marketing at the last of the sory vision to their hit-singles dominated Big Four -Universal Music audiences. -has been reported by
sales and deteremined
Not all of the fallout Macworld to say that 90 per­from digital down­the music industry's cent of what they sell is loads has been nega­direction. "material goods," download­tive. Downloading has ing is only increasing its com-improved many facets petition with the standard of the music industry. Obviously, it makes music producer. Soon, it will dominate purchasing music faster and easier. The more of the market. consumer no longer has to take a trip to It's wonderful that a single click is all the store or even wait days or weeks for that s~parates listeners from that song an online purchase to arrive in the mail. on the radio that has been stuck in their In turn, this convenience can theoretical­heads for days, but people don't seem to ly encourage more diversity in music buy albums anymore. Downloading has selection simply because there is less of a worsened the inundation that started cost to buying something unfamiliar. with radio stations constantly playing the 
Downloading is in many ways cheaper. same songs over and over again. Producers of downloadable music save In general, people are not using the on many of the costs of packaging and cheaper cost of music to try something delivering the item, so they can cut the new or even pick up an album that price. Currently, at least three of the tra-includes a song they like. Instead they are buying the same single they have the industry moved from vinyl to com­heard everywhere, and they won't even pact discs. There were still some memo­try out the album that the single was on. rable covers, but they got farther and There's no investment in the artist's full fewer between. In the current era digital performance, just a simple grab for what downloads, cover art is threatening to is familiar. disappear completely. It does seem to be 
Rock operas, which differ from the making a small comeback within the lat-standard rock and roll est edition of iTunes, album by featuring songs which allows you to flip that directly relate to In general, people are through your collection each other, are still popu­not using the cheaper using digital images of the lar if you consider a clas­album covers. But it
cost ofmusic to try
sic like The Who's remains an afterthought, "Tommy" released in something new or even failing to provide the same 1969. But new albums pick up an album that feeling of tangibility or the are becoming rarer. AOR same importance.
includes a song they 
(Album-oriented rock) It can't be denied that radio stations that tried like. downloading has had a to play sets of songs positive effect on many together instead of one at a time mostly aspects of the music industry. The cur­died out by the '90s. Concept albums, rent ease of getting music is such that it which group songs that expose a com­seems to outweigh many of its more sub­mon theme that can be defmed by either tle disadvantages. Still, it seems unfortu­content or musicality, are more popular, nate that music production and con­such as Green Day's "American Idiot." sumption is changing in a way that 
Still, once again they are being pulled seems to devalue the entire experience of apart into singles. Everyone has heard investing in an album and gaining an the song "American Idiot" by now, but appreciation of its complete vision. fewer have heard the album's other tracks. Everyone seems to be listening to Contact Michelle Fordice at more music as they make use of portable mfordice@nd.edu 




.. 
Photo courtesy of castawayonline.hu Photo courtesy of mineferieminder.dk Green Day's latest album "American Idiot" is a concept album meant to be lis­Pink Floyd's "The Dark Side of the Moon" remains one of the most memorable tened to in its entirety, but many fans have only heard the album's titular single. album covers in music history. Cover art is currently suffering due to downloading. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, October 2, 2006 
MLB -WRAPS 
Smoltz, Braves end Astros' playoff dreams 
Tigers blow six-run lead against Royals to lose fifth consecutive game, Twins take the AL Central title 
Associated Press streak that ended Friday night at Atlanta. 
ATLANTA --Only two weeks The Astros went into the final ago, the Houston Astros' were day trailing St. Louis by 1 1-2 such a long shot to make the games and finished at 82-80. If playoffs that it didn't seem they Houston had won and St. Louis even had a chance to finish had lost to Milwaukee, the .500. Cardinals would've had to play a 
The Astros then took off on a makeup game Monday against determined comeback attempt San Francisco. that was so impressive manager Some Houston players had dif­Phil Garner couldn't believe his ficulty accepting there would be team fell short of the playoffs no postseason. with Sunday's 3-1 loss to the "It's a little bit like somebody Atlanta Braves on the last day of swept the rug out from under the season. you," said reliever Brad Lidge. 
"I really got to believing we "It's a little shocking." were going to carry this out," Garner said after the defending Royals 10, Tigers 8 NL champion Astros were elimi­The Detroit Tigers head to nated from the Central race. Yankee Stadium for the playoffs, 
Added Garner: "I am a little knowing all too well how close disappointed and a little sur­they were to winning the AL prised we didn't win today." Central title and opening at 
The Astros outhit the Braves home. 9-3, but they left 11 on base and Needing one more victory to committed two errors that led to clinch the division, the sagging two unearned runs. Tigers lost their final five games Detroit will open the playoff's pitchers to give us more than we Cuddyer said, "Yeah, we win the 
John Smoltz pitched six of the season. They wound up on the road Tuesday night got in the last five days. If we World Series. That's a good shutout innings and relievers with the wild card after against the Yankees. keep pitching like this, nothing script right there." Tyler Yates and Bob Wickman Sunday's disappointment -­"Once we get to New York, else is going to matter." The Twins huddled in the finished the game with 2 1/3 wasting a six-run lead and then we'll be ready to go," first base­Hogers (17 -8) will start Game dugout after the final out to perfect innings to end any come­watching All-Star starter Kenny man Sean Casey said. "It's a new 3 at Comerica Park and Jeremy watch the end of Detroit's game. back hopes. Rogers lose in relief to the last­season come Tuesday night." Bonderman (14-8) will pitch When Esteban German got the 
The Astros' loss clinched the place Kansas City Royals in 12 Nate Robertson will start for Game 4, if necessary. Rogers go-ahead hit in the 12th for the division title for the St. Louis innings. Detroit in Game 1 and rookie and Bonderman both worked Royals, Minnesota players Cardinals. "We got beat," Tigers center Justin Verlander (17 -9) is sched­Sunday. leaped from the bench, spilled 
Houston trailed the Cardinals fielder Curtis Granderson said. uled to pitch Game 2. Minnesota wound up as the onto the field and starting high­by 8? games on Aug. 19, when "Kansas City played great. They "It's a lot easier to beat them Central champion, and will start fiving and hugging in a mass the Astros were 72-78. They outhit us, they outscored us and three out of five than four out of the playoffs at home against celebration. pulled within a half-game of the we ended up getting swept by seven," Tigers manager Jim Oakland. More than 30,000 fans at the lead with a nine-game winning them." Leyland said. "We needed our Metrodome stayed to watch the 
Twins 5, White Sox 1 end of the Tigers' game and 
The Horner Hankies will be cheer in a euphoric scene. waving in the Metrodome again "They said we couldn't do it!" this postseason, and a little Torii Hunter exclaimed over and sooner than expected. over again in a champagne and 
The Twins took horne another beer-soaked clubhouse. ''I'm AL Central championship on going to buy the whole Kansas Sunday and Joe Mauer became City team a bottle of cham­the first catcher to win an pagne! Every one of them! Dom American League batting title by Perignon." getting two hits in Minnesota's The Twins began the day tied victory over the Chieago White with Detroit for first place, but Sox. they needed a victory AND a 
About 35 minutes after Tigers loss to win the division Minnesota's game ended, the title because Detroit won the Kansas City Royals completed a season series 11-8 against the big comeback and beat the Twins. Detroit Tigers 10-8 in 12 innings The Tigers get the AL wild --giving the Twins their fourth card and will begin the postsea­division title in five years. son Tuesday night at Yankee 
After starting the season just Stadium. 25-33, they will open the play­Mauer went 2-for-4 to finish oil's at home Tuesday against AL the season at .347, beating out West champion Oakland with New York's Derek Jeter (.343), ace Johan Santana on the for the batting crown, and mound. Hunter homered for the Twins, 
When asked if there could be who trailed the Tigers by 10 1-2 a better script written, Michael games on Aug. 7. 



The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 l.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
1999 HONDA CIVIC. Blk. 78K HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6 miles, 1 owner_ Sporty, Runs great Bedrooms 
WANTED $6,600, 286-1861' www.NDstudentrentals.com 
Home For Sale: 531 W Angela FALL WORK near NO, $107,000 2 BR $15,50 base-appt w/den,basement,garage_ Call Barb Flexible schedules, no exp, need-Foster,ReMax 100 (574)968-4208 ed, customer sales/service, condi-or (574)271-0111­lions apply, all ages 17+, Call Today 
... 
57 4-273-3835 . 
FoR RENT
Calculus tutor evenings preferred 574-276-8299. One or two nights a week, Fee Weekend rental: 3 BR Home, walk negotiable_ to stadium, Terrace Ln, 
269-930-8038. swmient@qtm.net
• 
BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam­pus homes & weekend rentals. Bluegoldrentals,com 
Upscale Football Weekend House ­Escort OptionaL 574-993-8333 keszeicpa@ sbcglobal,net 
Houses 4 Rent:W/Es-Home Fbaii,Sr Dad,JPW,Grad,B&G;SEMESTER-Spring/Summer. 
Mike:312-618-4722 
45 minutes from Notre Dame Home for Rent: 3 BR,garage, 
FoR SALE 
Stadium. $125,00/night. Year round McKinley Terrace, $775 month, 
cabins sleep six_ lease, no pets. Broker Owned, Investment homes for sale near Call Lumberjack Resort 269-646-574-968-4208 NO_ 866-521-8989, 2181, or 574-271-0111 _ Bed & Breakfast, NO home Travel with STS to this years top 10 games,2bedrms, private bath,6 Spring Break destinations! miles west of South Bend Airport, PERSONAL call574-289-2919 and leave mes-Best deals guaranteed! Highest rep sage_ commissions. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Visit www.ststraveLcom or call 1-not go it alone. If you or someone 800-648-4849. Great group dis-you love needs confidential support counts, or assistance, please call Sr_ Sue
TICKETS 
Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more 
Travel with STS to this years top 10 information, see our bi-weekly ad in WANTED: Notre Dame tickets, 251-Spring Break destinations! Best The Observer_ 1570 deals guaranteed! Highest rep com­
missions. Why did you tear my heart out FOR SALE: NO TICKETS_ 232-Pey1on Manning? Why are you so 0964 Visit www.ststraveLcom or call 1-good? Most importantly, why did 
800-648-4849. Great group dis-Gatorade select you to be in their WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. counts, Gatorade rain commerical? TOP DOLLAR PAID_ NOBODY WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726. NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICK-After their valiant effort yesterday, it 
ETS FOR SALE HOME or AWAY is well deserved: FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TICK-games.Call517-351-1992 or order J-E-T-S ETS. BEST PRICES, online 24/7 at WWWJAMESTHET-JETS! JETS! JETS! 
ICKETMAN,COM we have tickets J-E-T-S 57 4-232-2378, local or nationwide. JETS! JETS! JETS! 


OUND THE NATION 
Monday, October 2, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERvrcEs page 15 
NFL 

NCAA Football , Associated Press Top 25 
team record points previous 
1 Ohio State (62) 5·0 1622 1 2 Auburn (11 5·0 1498 2 3 usc 4-0 1470 3 4 West Virginia 4-0 1395 4 5 Florida 5-0 1393 5 6 Michigan 5·0 1342 6 7 Texas 4-1 1204 7 8 Louisville 4-0 1165 8 g LSU 4-1 1157 9 10 Georgia 5·0 968 10 11 Oregon 4-0 946 14 12 NOTRE DAME 4·1 921 12 13 Tennessee 4·1 824 15 14 Oklahoma 3·1 735 16 15 Clemson 4-1 689 18 16 California 4-1 633 20 17 Florida State 3-1 548 19 18 Georgia Tech 4·1 539 24 19 Iowa 4·1 444 13 20 Boise State 5-0 353 22 21 Virginia Tech 4-1 339 11 22 Nebraska 4-1 325 21 23 Missouri 5-0 208 25 24 Rutgers 5-0 178 23 25 Boston College 4·1 52 NR 
NCAA Football USA Today Coaches Poll 
team record points previous 
1 Ohio State (62) 5·0 1574 1 2 usc 4·0 1475 2 3 Auburn (1) 5-0 1418 3 4 West Virginia 4·0 1366 4 5 Florida 5·0 1309 5 6 Michigan 5·0 1277 6 7 Texas 4·1 1178 7 8 Louisville 4·0 1140 8 9 Georgia 5·0 1039 9 10 LSU 4-1 1038 10t 11 Oregon 4·0 .,,,.,...,.',,.:946· 12 12 NOTRE DAME 4·1 r;z 851 14 13 Oklahoma 3-1 706 16 14 Tennessee 4·1 673 18 15 Clemson 4·1 657 19 16 Florida State 3·1 601 17 17 California 4·1 588 20 18 Virginia Tech 4·1 lOt 19 Iowa 4-1 3 20 Georgia Tech 4·1 NR 21 Boise Slate 5·0 22 22 Nebraska 4·1 21 23 Rutgers 5·0 23 24 Texas Tech 4·1 24 25 Missouri 5·0 NR 
·:·~~.:~ ..:· 

Harris Poll Rankings 
Team record points previous 
1 Ohio State (110) 5·0 2845 1 2 USC(2) 4-0 2637 2 3 Auburn (1) 5·0 2626 3 4 Michigan 5·0 2436 5 51 West Virginia 4·0 2388 6 51 Florida 5·0 2388 4 7 Louisville 4·0 2093 7 8 Texas 4-1 2841 8 9 LSU 4·1 1922 10 10 Georgia 5·0 1784 9 11 Oregon 4·0 1681 13 12 NOTRE DAME 4·1 1622 12 13 Tennessee 4·1 1427 15 14 Oklahoma 3·1 1292 16 15 Clemson 4·1 1137 19 
around the dial 
BOXING 
The Contender 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 
Packers at Eagles 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 


Associated Press 

CHICAGO -The Chicago Bears showed how serious they are about contending for the NFC title, dominat· ing the defending confer· ence champions. 
Rex Grossman threw for 232 yards and Ricky Manning Jr. intercepted two of Matt Hasselbeck's passes to lead Chicago to a 
37-6  victory  over  the  
Seattle  Seahawks  on  
Sunday night.  

Grossman had another solid performance, com­pleting 17 of 31 passes with two touchdowns and no interceptions, and the Bears improved to 4-0 for the first time since 1991. Bernard Berrian had three receptions for a career-high 108 yards and a touch­down. 
The Bears also got their running game going after three sluggish performanc· es, with Thomas Jones rushing for 98 yards and two touchdowns. 
And the league's fourth­ranked defense shut down a Seahawks team that was missing injured running back Shaun Alexander. 
With the Bears leading 10-3, Manning intercepted Hasselbeck twice in the second quarter to set up a field goal and touchdown. 
Hasselbeck was 16-of-35 for 196 yards and did not throw a touchdown, after tying a franchise record with five scoring passes the previous week in a 42-30 victory over the New York Giants. He was sacked five times -including twice each by Tommie Harris and Mark Anderson. 
Maurice Morris started for Alexander and carried 11 times for 35 yards. 
The league MVP, Alexander had been both­ered by a bruised bone in his left foot before it cracked during last week's win over the Giants. Still, he hoped to play, saying the power of prayer had healed him and even jumping around for coach Mike Holmgren. A second round of tests on Wednesday showed the bone was still broken, so he sat for the first time since being draft­ed in 2000, and Morris 
IN BRIEF 

Mauer becomes first catcher 
to win AL hitting crown 
NEW YORK -Joe Mauer became the first catcher to win the American League batting title, going 2-for-4 for the Minnesota Twins on the final day of the regular season to hold off the New York Yankees' Derek Jeter. 
Mauer's doubled and singled against the Chicago White Sox, leav­ing his average at .347 down from a high of .392 on July 1 but good enough to best Jeter, who went 1-for­5 against Toronto and wound up at .343. 
"You couldn't really not think about it," Mauer said. "There were so many questions. Scores on the board, peo­ple saying you need to do this, do that. I've never been so nervous in my life. I'm just happy it's all over with and we're here celebrating." 
Mauer became the first catcher to win a batting title in either league since Ernie Lombardi hit .330 for the 1942 Boston Braves. 
Titans lineman Haynesworth stomps on Cowboys center 
DALLAS -Cowboys center Andre Gurode needed stitches above his forehead and beneath his eye Sunday after being kicked twice by Titans defensive tackle Albert Haynesworth. 
The incident occurred after Dallas had taken a a two-touchdown lead in the third quarter. 
Gurode's helmet came off after the scoring play, a 5-yard run by Julius Jones, and Haynesworth, standing over him, used his right foot to kick Gurode in the head. 
Gurode said they hadn't been talk· ing or having any exchanges that led to Haynesworth kicking him twice. 
"In all my years of football, this has never happened to me," Gurode said. ''I've never seen anybody kick nobody else in the face." 
Haynesworth, who was ejected, expects to be disciplined. 
"What I did out there was disgust· ing," Haynesworth said. 
made the fifth start of his career. 
The Seattle defense took a hit in the second quarter, when safety Michael Boulware suffered a con· cussion while breaking up a pass intended for Chicago's John Gilmore at the Seattle 1. 
Sunday's game was the ninth between the two teams and their first in three years. 
The Bears thought they were on course to meet Seattle in the playoffs last season, when they earned a first-round bye, but Carolina knocked them off at Soldier Field. The Seahawks beat the Panthers the next week to advance to the Super Bowl. 
Trahan takes home State Farm title on third playoff hole 
MADISON, Miss-D.J. Trahan was­n't happy with his putting Sunday until he got to a playoff in the Southern Farm Bureau Classic. 
After finishing regulation with a par to force the playoff with Joe Durant, Trahan put on an overtime putting clinic, birdieing the par-S 18th three straight times in sudden death to win his first PGA Tour title. 
"Nothing really changed to be honest with you," Trahan said. "I was stroking the ball the same. I made the putts on 17 and 1made the putts in the playoffs. I didn't feel like I was stroking it any different or my mentality with the putter was any different. But fortu­nately for me those putts were going in, unlike the ones earlier in the day." 
Trahan won with a 5-foot birdie putt on the third extra hole after closing with a 1-under 71 to match Durant 
(66) at 13-under 275 on the Annandale Golf Club course. 

page 16 The Obser-ver + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, October 2, 2006 

*connectedthinking 


© 2006 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. All rights reser•ed. "PricewaterhouseCoopers·· refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (a Delaware limited liability partnership} or, as the context requires. the Pncewaterl>ouseCoopers g!obal network or other member fh-ms of the network, each of which ;sa separate and mctependent legal entity. •connectedth;nklng is a trademark of PricewaterhouseCocpers LLP (USl. We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Empioyer. 
Monday, October 2, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NHL 
Devils make trade with salary cap in mit;1d 
New Jersey sends Malakhov, first rounder to San Jose for Fahey, Korolyuk; saves organization $3.6 million 

Associated Press 
The New Jersey Devils made a major move to get under the NHL salary cap Sunday by sending suspended defense­man Vladimir Malakhov and a conditional first-round draft pick to San Jose for defense­man Jim Fahey and the rights to left wing Alexander Korolyuk. 
The deal will save the Devils $3.6 million on their cap ­Malakhov's salary -and it probably won't cost New Jersey much because Korolyuk will play in Russia again this season and Fahey might not make the roster. 
With the NHL season sched­uled to open this week, Devils AP president and general manager Lou Lamoriello has been des­
Devils defender Eric Rasmussen, right, skates ahead of Islanders winger 
perate to make some moves to
Vicktor Kozlov during New York's W preseason win on Saturday. 
get under the NHL's $44 million East Rutherford, N.J. salary cap. The Devils were pushed over 
Lamoriello would not say the cap limit this summer whether the Devils will have to when they signed forward make more moves before the Patrik Elias to a seven-year, season opens on Friday in $42 million contract -a $7.5 Carolina against the Stanley million contract this season ­
Cup  champion  and center Scott  
Hurricanes.  Gomez  was  
However, he still has to sign right wing Brian Gionta, who  "We're getting an exceptional hockey player."  awarded $5 mil­lion by an arbi­trator. The Devils, who  
scored  a  team­ also signed Jamie  
record 48 goals last season, defenseman Paul  Lou Lamoriello Devils President  Langenbrunner in the offseason, also owed Malakhov  
Martin, and back- and  forward  
up  goaltender  Alexander  

Scott Clemmensen. So there Mogilny some $7.1 million this might be another deal in the season, even though they will works. not be on the team. They were 
"We'll take it one thing at a signed as free agents last sea­time," Lamoriello said in a son, but they were dropped telephone call from his office in from the roster for poor play. 
Mogilny was sent to the 
minors, and Malakhov first retired and then was suspend­ed by the team.

The Kellogg Institute for International Studies is proud to present 
Since they were both over 35-years-old when they signed last year, their salaries counted against the Devils' salary cap. 
Lamoriello has petitioned the

An Evening of Brazilian Music 
NHL to have Mogilny's salary · removed from the cap because of a long-term hip injury. 

The Brazilian choral ensemble ContraCantos 

The 30-year-old Korolyuk · had 19 goals and 15 assists in

and the choro group Arabiando will 
45 games for Vityaz Chekhov in Russia. He last played in the

perform in concert at two public NHL for the Sharks in 2003­
04. performances in the South Bend area. "We're getting an exception­

Wednesday, October 4 7pm John Adams High School Auditorium 
al hockey player who could play for us next year," said Thursday, October 5 Lamoriello, who refused to reveal the conditions placed on 7pm the first-round pick sent to the 
Sharks.
University of Notre Dame 
Fahey appeared in 21 games _ for the Sharks last season and
Washington Hall 
had two assists. "We'll have to take a look at him," Lamoriello said of Fahey. The 38-year-old Malakhov 

0KELLOGG INSTITUTE 
had four goals and five assists in 29 games with the Devils. He Co-sponsored by the Kellogg Institute at the University of Notre Dame and the South Bend Community School Corporation. has played in 712 NHL games with the New York Islanders,
Made posstble by generous tJnding from the Brazilian Mintstry of Culture. 
Montreal, New Jersey, the New 
York Rangers and Philadelphia. 





page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 2, 2006 
MLB 

Emotional MacPhail resigns as Cubs CEO 
President apologizes 
for lack of success over his twelve years 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -An emotional Andy MacPhail resigned Sunday as president and CEO of the Chicago Cubs after failing to get the team to the World Series during his 12-year tenure. 
"This is the first thing I've ever done in baseball that I did­n't have a high level of success at," MacPhail said, his voice cracking. 
The Cubs have made just two playoff appearances since MacPhail joined them in 1994 after he spent nine years with the Minnesota Twins, leading them to two World Series titles. Chicago finished its season Sunday at 66-96, the worst record in the NL. 
"The clock on the MacPhail a­meter has run down to zero," said MacPhail, who told reporters he broached the sub­ject of resigning during a team review with Tribune Co. execu­tives in midseason. "It's not just that we had a terrible season. I've been here 12 seasons and only two postseason (appear­
I ances) and to me that's not what I came here to do.
I Obviously, I've not been as 
I effective as I wanted to be."
I Marketing vice president John McDonough will take over the club's day-to-day operation on an interim basis. MacPhail will stay on through the transition and do his work for the major league baseball negotiating committee. MacPhail's grandfather and father were longtime baseball executives, and both are in the Hall of Fame. "I've been in the. business my entire life. I was born to it," MacPhail said. ''I've done just about everything imaginable in it from selling program space in Midland, Texas, to scouting in the Midwest league, to being a GM, a president, negotiating a 
Interested in Law? 

Attend the 2006 ND Law Fair 
October 9, 2006 McKenna Hall 11:00-3:00 
Representatives from over 65 law schools will be available in an informal setting to answer questions and provide information to students about their law schools. 
collective bargaining agree­ment. 
"There is one rule that applies to everything. You've got to win and if you don't win, it's subject to change." 
Since MacPhail took over, the Cubs won the NL wild card in 1998 and the NL Central in 2003, when they fell five outs short of making the World Series. 
The Cubs, who had a payroll of approximately $95 million this season, haven't been to the World Series since 1945. They haven't won one since 1908. 
"This is a baseball decision. It's an issue of making sure our fans know that we are commit­ted to winning," said Tribune Co. chairman, president and CEO Dennis Fitzsimons, adding his company has no plans to sell the Cubs. "Andy MacPhail has been committed to winning. For whatever reasons, it didn't work out.... Andy said it best, we both felt we needed a change." 
MacPhail couldn't repeat his baseball success from Minnesota despite a bigger pay­roll with a big-market team whose shrine-like home field is nearly always sold out or close to it. MacPhail was instrumental in a bleacher expansion project for Wrigley Field that was com­pleted for the 2006 season. 
Injuries played a big role the last several years, especially to the pitching staff, most notably Kerry Wood and Mark Prior. And 2005 NL batting champion Derrek Lee played in only 50 games this season after break­ing his wrist and then attending to his daughter's health issues. 
"Too much payroll has been sitting on the sideline. Nobody's fault," MacPhail said. "There has been too much of it and it hasn't been able to be applied on the field. Nothing in the way of excuses, just fact." 
But poor play was also a part of his tenure and MacPhail acknowledged that while the Cubs had done a good job of developing pitchers, they hadn't done so with position players. 
PGA 

Tiger wins sixth in a row 
Woods easily takes 
, 
American Express leading wire-to-wire 
Associated Press 
CHANDLER'S CROSS, 
England -Good news for the 
rest of golf: Tiger Woods is 
going on vacation. 
A streak that began 10 
weeks ago on the sun-baked 
links of Hoylake reached six 
straight PGA Tour victories on 
the rain-drenched fairways 
north of London on Sunday 
when Woods went wire-to­
wire in the American Express 
Championship. He became 
the first player in tour history 
to win at least eight times in 
three seasons. 
Threatened only by. the weather that twice delayed the inevitable, Woods closed with a 4-under 67 for an "eight-shot victory over Adam 
Scott and Ian Poulter. 
"He's dominating the 
game," Scott said. "It's not the 
first time he's done it, either." 
The trophy in hand, Woods 
had one foot in a courtesy car 
that was ready to take him 
away when he took a few 
questions from the BBC. Arter 
playing seven times in the last 
nine weeks, he was eager to 
get home to Florida. 
''I'm getting away for a little 
bit," Woods said. "As far as 
golf, I've had enough of it for 
a while." 
This might have been his 
most dominating performance 
since the streak began at the 
British Open in July, and not 
just because the eight-shot 
victory was his largest margin 
the morning... 

ANO YOLJ NEEO TO KNOW WHAT'S LJP ON CAMPUS 
HAVE THE LATEST NEWS WAITING FOR YOLJ... 

www.ndsmcobserver.com/register 
since winning by 11 at the 
2003 Bay Hill Invitational. 
Woods had such control 
over his game that he was 
third in driving distance and 
fifth in driving accuracy, 
missing only 12 fairways all 
week. And during one stretch, 
he hit 36 consecutive greens 
in regulation, a streak that 
ended when his approach on 
the 12th hole drifted left and 
into a bunker for his only 
bogey of the final round. 
One other streak ended on 
the last hole of the tourna­
ment _ it was the first time all 
week he failed to make eagle 
on the 567~yard closing hole 
at The Grove. His chip from 
just short of the green scoot­
ed by the cup and stopped a 
few feet away for a tap-in 
birdie that put him at 23­
under 261. 
"This was a fun week," he ·said. "I hit the ball really well 
_ all 72 holes, really. It's fun 
when you can control your 
golf ball that well." 
In a week remembered for 
the death of Byron Nelson, it 
rekindled curiosity whether 
Lord Byron's record in 1945 
of 11 consecutive victories 
really is untouchable. 
Woods wasn't ready to 
touch that one _yet. 
"It's still a long way away," 
he said with a laugh. "If you 
look at it, I'm barely halfway. 
What he did was absolutely 
remarkable, and I'm just 
thrilled that I've been able to 
win six in a row twice. That 
to me is a pretty neat accom­
plishment in itself." 
Woods won the final four 
PGA Tour events in 1999 and 
his first two starts in 2000 to 
match Ben Hogan (1948) for 

the second-longest winning streak on the PGA Tour. 
He passed Nelson, Hogan, Sam Snead and Arnold Palmer with his 'third PGA Tour season of at least eight victories. Woods won eight times in 1999 and nine times in 2000. 
And he has at least one tournament left the Tour Championship. 
Woods probably won't decide until the last minute whether to play Disney in three weeks. Skipping that tournament, which has never been his favorite, would leave him one round short of being eligible for the Vardon Trophy for lowest scoring average. 
Asked how much that award meant, Woods replied, "Not much." 
"I've had a good year," he said. "But if you don't play enough rounds, you don't play enough rounds." 
He might come up short because of missing the cut at the U.S. Open for the first time in a major. That was his first tournament back since his father died of cancer in May, and Woods has been nearly unstoppable since then. 
The only two tournaments he didn't win was the Western Open (a tie for second) and the World Match Play Championship two weeks ago at Wentworth, a European Tour event that does not count toward his PGA Tour streak. 
Woods successfully defend­ed his title for the fifth time this year, and he is 1 0-of-15 in World Golf Championships that are stroke play. 
Monday, October 2, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NFL-WRAPS 
Manning's late QB sneak gives Colts victory 
Patriots use balanced offensive attack, two rushing touchdowns from Maroney to destroy favored Bengals 
Associated Press 
EAST HUTHERFORD, N.J.­Peyton Manning watched the fourth-quarter lead his Colts had just taken vanish in a flash when the New York Jets returned the ensuing kickoff 103 yards. 
Cool, calm and ever the leader, the Indianapolis Colts quarterback just jogged back on the field with a little more than 2 minutes left and took charge. 
"There truly never was any panic," Manning said. "When they ran the kickoff back, we were just getting back on the bench. We didn't have time to get mad or to panic." 
They certainly had plenty of time to ruin the Jets' victory plans. 
After Justin Miller's 103-yard dash gave New York the lead with 2:20 left, Manning led Indianapolis on the type of effi­cient drive that has defined his career -capping it with a 1­yard run that gave the Colts a wild 31-28 victory Sunday. 
Manning was 6-of-8 for 60 yards on the drive, including a 19-yard pass to Marvin Harrison and a 15-yarder to Reggie Wayne that put the ball at the 1. Running the no-huddle offense, Manning then took the ball and pushed himself into the end zone. 
"I was pumped," Manning said. "You practice those two­minute drills all the time. Everybody's played that back­yard game where you envision the last play of the game. Anytime you can do it in New York, it adds a little something to it." 
Patriots 38, Bengals 13 
Rookie running back Laurence Maroney got New England's offense rolling like old times. 
Maroney ran for 125 yards and a pair of touchdowns Sunday, restoring balance to the Patriots' off-keel offense and setting up a victory over the Cincinnati Bengals that had a familiar feel. 
"Kind of like the Patriots you guys were used to seeing," smil­ing quarterback Tom Brady said. 
Only a week earlier, New England (3-1) was so pitiful on offense that Brady uncharacter­istically waved his arms in frus­tration during a loss to Denver. The only time he lifted his arms Sunday was to signal another Patriots touchdown. 
Maroney got the biggest ones. 

Playing on the field where teammate Corey Dillon broke the single-game rushing record for Cincinnati in 2000, Maroney dodged and stiff-armed his way through the Bengals (3-1) on touchdown runs of 11 and 25 yards that set the tone. 
"We knew coming in that the running game was going to play a major part in the game," said Maroney, who ran for only 18 yards against Denver. "That was No. 1 on our list -get the running game going." 
Ravens 16, Chargers 13 
The Baltimore Ravens have a new formula for success: Keep the game close enough for Steve McNair to win it at the end. 
McNair rallied the unbeaten Ravens for a second straight week Sunday, throwing a 10­yard pass to Todd Heap with 34 seconds left to defeat the San Diego Chargers. 
In years past, the Ravens depended on their defense to squash the opposition, leaving the offense to do little else but avoid giving the ball away. Now that McNair is at quarterback, late-game heroics are becoming the standard. 
"There was no doubt in my inind we would win this game when No. 9 went out there," said Ravens cornerback Samari Holle, who played with McNair in Tennessee. "He's been through everything you can be through as a quarterback. He's been MVP. He's been in the Super Bowl. He's just got it." 
Showing precisely why they obtained him in an offseason trade with the Titans, McNair went 4-for-5 for 43 yards and ran once for 12 yards during the final drive, which began after San Diego intentionally took a safety with 3:12 to go. 
McNair never faced a third down during the march. After a 17-yard pass to Mark Clayton got the ball to the San Diego 35, McNair ran to the 23 and com­pleted a 13-yarder to Clayton. 
On second down, McNair found Heap for the game-win­ner, leaving the Ravens at 4-0 for the first time. 
"If we don't make enough plays to win early, we can make plays to win the game late," linebacker Ray Lewis said. "That's why we brought him here." 
Redskins 36, Jaguars 30 (OT) 
In the first quarter, Washington Redskins receiver Santana Moss made a spin move that left Jacksonville Jaguars safety Deon Grant sprawled on the grass at the 11-yard line. 
In the fourth quarter, Moss caught a pass and darted inside just in time to make cornerback Brian Williams whiff near the goal line. 
Then in overtime, Moss dust­ed Grant and Williams at the same time, leaving them flat­footed on a 68-yard game-win­ning catch down the left side­line. 
Three dazzling touchdowns. 
With a playmaker like that, Mark Brunell didn't have to gloat about beating his old team -all he had to do was throw in No. 89's direction and watch his old colors look silly trying to make a tackle. Brunell-to-Moss resurrected the Redskins' sea­son last year, and the combo came to life again in Sunday's 36-30 victory. 
"He's the best after the catch I've played with," Brunell said. "He's exciting to watch. There's nothing he can't do." 
Moss finished with four recep­tions for 138 yards, including TD catches of 55, 8 and 68 yards. Clinton Portis ran 27 times for 112 yards and a touchdown, becoming the first back in 13 games to get 100 against the Jaguars. 
Panthers 21, Saints 18 
Six days after their emotional return to New Orleans, the Saints were due for a letdown. 
They still gave Carolina all it could handle -until Steve Smith got loose late. 

Jake Delhomme threw a 4­yard touchdown pass to Drew Carter midway through the fourth quarter to put the Panthers ahead to stay as Carolina handed New Orleans its first loss of the season Sunday. 
"We didn't come in here thinking there was going to be a letdown," cornerback Fred Thomas said. "We came in here emotional and played." 
But Thomas had trouble con­taining Smith. 
The All-Pro caught three passes for 35 yards on a 91­yard drive. Then, with the Saints focusing on Smith and Keyshawn Johnson, Delhomme lobbed a 4-yard pass to a wide open Carter to put Carolina ahead 14-10 with 7:15left. 
"Most definitely he wasn't 100 percent," Thomas said of Smith, who missed the first two games with a strained ham­string. "The guy is a competi­tor. He gets respect from around the league. He gets much respect from me." 
DeShaun Foster's 43-yard touchdown run on third down with 1:45 left made it 21-10, with Johnson, brought in to give Smith help this season, throwing a big block. 
Texans 17, Dolphins 15 
On the brink of his first win as coach of the Houston Texans, Gary Kubiak couldn't bear to look. 
Too bad, because if he'd turned around he would have seen No. 1 draft pick Mario Williams make a game-saving play. Williams tipped a two­point conversion that would have tied the game and finally got his first sack as the Texans beat Miami on Sunday. 
The Dolphins trailed 17-9 when Daunte Culpepper found Chris Chambers for a 16-yard touchdown with 1:39 to go to pull within two. Miami went for the 2-point conversion, but the pass by running back Ronnie Brown was tipped by Williams and sailed over Chambers' head. 
"He threw it and I just reached up and tipped it," Williams said. "I was in the right place at the right time." 
The Dolphins (1-3) tried an onside kick and almost recov­ered, but the ball squirted out from underneath Keith Adams and the Texans fell on it and ran out the clock. 
Cowboys 45, Titans 14 
As long as Drew Bledsoe and Terry Glenn are connecting for touchdowns, they don't mind when Terrell Owens gets all the attention. 
In a game that featured the return of T.O. and the first NFL start of Tennessee rookie Vince Young, Bledsoe and Glenn hooked up on two 13-yard touchdown passes Sunday and the Dallas Cowboys beat the Titans. 
Bledsoe sees Owens, the five­time Pro Bowl selection, and Glenn, his former teammate with New England, as the best tandem of receivers he has had. Still, Owens is the one who draws extra defensive help. 
"When Owens is out there, [Glenn] gets single coverage and you can't cover him one-on­one," Bledsoe said. 
Owens did, indeed, play with his broken right hand protected by a plate and a glove only five days after his hospital visit for an accidental overdose. He caught five passes for 88 yards but also dropped a pass in the end zone he couldn't pull in with his injured hand. 
"He caught a couple balls," Dallas coach Bill Parcells said. "You were there. What do you think? I was pleased with the offense." 

(Inside St. Andrew's Plaza) Students receive 15% off all services Mon -Wed Our new phone number: 574-258-5080 www.salonrougeinc.com 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 2, 2006 
SMC GOLF 

Saint Mary's takes third 
Belles finish behind Olivet, Tri-State on Blackthorn course 
By REBECCA SLINGER 
SportS Writer 
The Belles continued their early run of success this sea­son with a third-place finish at the MIAA Jamboree on their home course, South Bend's Blackthorn Country Club, Saturday. 
The Belles placed behind first-place Olivet {334) and Tri-State (356), firing a 76­over par 364, but stayed ahead of five other teams in the conference-wide competi­tion. 
Saint Mary's freshman Kate Doornbos led the team, post­ing an 87 {15-over par) en route to a sixth place finish. Sophomore co-captain Alex Sei posted the second lowest score on the team, shooting an 89 to place eighth overall. 
"I was hitting a lot of my balls in regulation," Doornbos said of her per­formance. "That's more than I normally do so I think that helped." 
Saint Mary's sophomores Katie Mcinerney and Meredith Fantom and fresh­man Joanna Dick, who shot 93, 95 and 99 respectively, also contributed to the Belles' 
third-place showing. Freshmen Theresa Tonyan, 
(115) and Caroline Doubek 
(134) entered the tournament as individuals. 
Belles sophomore Perri Hamma was forced to with­draw after sustaining a minor injury. 
A 30 minute rain delay forced a late start to the tournament. Doornbos said the delay made it hard to "get going" after the rain delay. 
"It did give the team a chance to rest though," Ham m a said. 

Belles were still able to put in strong performances to improve their finish by one place from the last Jamboree tournament, the Comet Classic. 
"We worked really hard on our weaknesses in practice," Hamma said. 
During last week's prepara­tions, the team played the course several times instead of holding their practice at the driving ranges. 
The Jamboree's individual medalist was Olivet seniorKristy Latimer of Olivet, who shot just six­
The team "Realistically speaking, over par for a 
held on to total of 78.
the team can dejinately
t h e i r Olivet led the rhythm in finish in top-3 [in the tournament 
the second conference] ifwe with the top 
round, four golfers of
continue our
maintain­the tournament ing their improvement." participating level of on their team. play to "Realistically
Alex Sei 
stay in speaking, the
Belles sophomore 
t h i r d team can defi­
place, just t w 0 strokes ahead of fourth-place finishers Albion College (366). 
"We would have liked to have gone in and won it," Doornbos said. "Olivet has a really solid team this year. I think if we had [team cap­tain] Katie O'Brien there, we could have beaten Tri-State." 
Without their captain, the 
nitely finish in 

the top-3 lin the conference! if we contin­ue our improvement," Sci said. "I don't have any doubts about our team." 
The Belles will play in their third MIAA Jamboree tourna­ment hosted by Hope Tuesday. 
Contact Rebecca Slinger at rslingO 1 @nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles split conference 111atches at Triangular 


Belles sophomore Cathy Kurczak spikes the ball in a 3-1 win 
over Tri-State Tuesday. 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD 
Sporrs Writer 
Saint Mary's played two strikingly different matches Friday at the Adrian Triangular. 
The Belles came out strong against Albion, winning in four games (30-2 4, 24-30, 30-23, 30-23). Senior Kristen Playko led the Belles with 17 kills, and freshman Lorna Slupczynski added ten more of her own. 
The second match was lot tougher for Saint Mary's and ended in a frustrating loss to 
Adrian. The host Bulldogs posted a 3-1 victory (24-30, 30-19, 30-21, 30-141. led by 18 kills by Lindsay Eshelman. Slupczynksi post­ed ten kills in the match for Saint Mary's. 
Senior Libero Anne Cusack talley a combined 49 digs in the two matches. 
Saint Mary's record now stands at 12-5 overall and 5­3 in MIAA play. 
The Belles will play again at Calvin on Wednesday at 6:30pm. 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 

----------------------------------------------, 
Monday, October 2, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
collegiate career. Freshman Annie Brophy will mark of 78.85. the Midwest region of the Junior Jane Lee will com­occupy the fifth team spot Throughout the first two country.
Kansas 
pete in her first event as a Monday and Tuesday, while tournaments, the Irish have The first two rounds of the continued from page 28 member of the team this year senior Stacy Brown will play yet to break 300 in a round of tournament will take place Lee competed in last week's as an individual entrant. play, a goal which they hope Monday with the third round 
Wetzel posted an even-par Notre Dame Invitational, but Brophy is third on the team to attain this week. Holt said coming on Tuesday. 72 last week and is averaging as an individual entrant. Her with an average of 77.33 in she is confident that the Irish 
78.50 per round through the scores did not count toward six rounds of play this year, can prevail in a competitive Contact ChrisHine at first two tournaments of her the team's total. while Brown has a career field of 15 other teams from chine@nd.edu 
National Meet Oct. 14 in Terra Haute, Ind. But with

Invite 
only one runner with NCAA continued from page 28 experience -Olding -the Irish will have to work hard 
By the finish, Michigan jun­to improve their race-running ior Erin Webster had a huge soon. lead over the rest of the field, For as disappointing as the winning the race in 16:36 -women's team was, the No. 16 seconds faster than her 16 men's team came out that next closest competitor. strong, finishing tied for Webster helped lead the way fourth with No. 26 Florida ­for the Wolverines who won one of six ranked teams run­the race with 57 points. ning against the Irish. Michigan also boasted three One of the most important runners in the top ten finish­factors in the result was the ers with Alyson Kohlmeier return of Notre Dame's top 
(16:54) and Nicole Edwards two runners for 2006 -Kurt 
(17:02) joining Webster at the Benninger and Patrick Smyth. front of the race. Smyth led the Irish across the 
As runners from Florida line with a third place finish State and Providence contin­at 23:46 -22 seconds ued to cross behind event the finish champion line, the Irish Chris Solinsky had only one "I don't know ifwe're from No.1 
runner in -that bad or ifwe just Wisconsin. 
Sunni Olding, "I was
had a bad day. Overall,
whose 17:15 extremely time was only it was a wasted effort. " happy with my good enough finish," Smyth for 18th said. "I've
Tim Connelly
place. been training
Irish coach
The Irish all season and did not have I definitely another fin-expected to be isher until up front." 
17:44 when Julie Opet The Badgers would eventu­crossed the line for 47th ally win the meet with 86 place. Despite the low finish points, but coach Joe Piane for the junior, Irish coach was pleased with his team's Tim Connelly was most finish since it helped them impressed with Opet's per­gain at large points in the formance. NCAA. Piane also noted he "We had one kid run well was more pleased with his and that was Julie Opet," he team's performance Friday said. than t.wo weeks ago in the Rounding out the top five National Catholic 
for the Irish was Lindsey Championship since they Ferguson (18:04), Heidi were able to compete with Rocha (18:12) and Becca some of the best teams in the Bauman (18:20). Connelly country. said he was very disappoint­"We were much better this 
ed with his team's perform­race," he said. "There were ance other than Opet. s·even ranked teams in this 
"I don't know if we're that meet and that means we beat bad or if we just had a bad a few. day," Connelly said. "Overall "We can be a whole heck of it was a wasted effort." a lot better." 
The women's team will look Piane was also satisfied to rebound and improve in with his two freshmen run­practice before the Pre-ners--Brock Hagerman and 


Irish sophomore Patrick Smyth pulls away from a Florida State runner at the Notre Dame lnviational Friday. The Irish finished fourth in the race. 
Jake Walker -who finished "Brock [Hagerman] needs season. sixth and seventh for the to learn how to run a 5 mile "One reason for our finish Irish, respectively. Walker race," Piane said. is that we train for a lOK could have finished even Overall, Piane was please race [used at Regionals and higher, but he was knocked with the way his team han­Nationals]. We should be bet­down in the first 200 meters dled themselves against top ter there." of the race. But Piane does competition, especially since think Hagerman has room to they have already looked to Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at improve. the longer races later in the jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
Brown 
continued from page 28 
and preserved the shutout. The Irish took a 20-13 lead, before the Pirates stormed back to make the score 21­
19. Notre Dame took the timeout, ran off a 9-3 stretch and capped it with a service ace from Fesl. 
It was the first time this season that Seton Hall has lost at home and the fourth time that Notre Dame has swept an opponent. 
Brown started her head­coaching career 22 years ago at Arizona State and spent three years with the U.S. National Team prior to taking the Notre Dame job in 1991. 
The Observer could not reach Brown for comment. 
The Irish take on Marquette at the Joyce Center Friday at 4 p.m. and host Syracuse at 1 
p.m. Sunday. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 2, 2006 
Unbeaten 
continued from page 24 
defender Kim Lorenzen] won a ball at midfield," Hanks said of the goal. "Then [senior mid­fielder Jen Buczkowski! made a nice pass and I was just in the right place at the right time." 
Hanks' goal was her team­leading seventh of the season. 
The Mountaineers controlled most of the first half and got on the board before the Irish. Sophomore midfielder Amanda Cicchini rocketed a shot past Irish keeper Lauren Karas in the 17th minute, ending Notre Dame's five-game shutout streak. 
"We made a mistake and left [Cicchini] unmarked," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said of the goal. 
The Mountaineers had sever­al other first half chances but couldn't convert. 
"The defense saved our butts in the first half," freshman for­ward Michele Weissenhofer said. 
Trailing 1-0 at halftime, Waldrum knew he had to make some changes. 
"We didn't have patience," Waldrum said. "We weren't holding it long enough for the forwards to get free. In the sec­ond half, we tried to get to ball to [sophomore forward] Brittany [Bock] and let her turn and distribute." 
Waldrum said the offensive adjustment was a play the Irish had practiced during the week. 
"[Bock] did a great job in that spot for us tonight," he said. 
Four minutes into the second half, the Irish used Bock's dis­tribution to even the score. Weissnehofer took a pass from Bock on the right side of the West Virginia penalty area and put in the seventh goal of her young career. The Irish also hit the back of the net in the 17th minute of the second half, but the goal was disallowed after a foul call on Notre Dame. 
The game featured five yel­low cards and several other hard fouls. Waldrum said the quality of the two teams and the importance of the game caused the physical play. 
"There was a lot at stake and two good teams going at it out there," he said. 
The second largest women's soccer crowd in Notre Dame history -3,046 people ­watched the contest despite the rain and cold. A large student section, comprised mainly of residents of Stanford and O'Neill Halls, stood behind the Mountaineer net the whole game and heckled Bannerman. 
"I can't thank them enough," Waldrum said of the fans. "That was huge. You could tell they had [the keeper] rattled. It lifted the whole atmosphere of the stadium." 
Notre Dame 5, Pittsburgh 0 
Notre Dame started another scoreless streak Sunday, beat­ing Pittsburgh 5-0 -only allowing one shot in the process. 
With a 2-0 lead early in the second half, Hanks set up two goals for Weissenhofer less than three minutes apart to put the game out of reach. 
The sophomore then added the fmal Irish goal in the 73rd minute, taking a Buczkowski pass to the left of the net and slipping a shot between Panther's goalkeeper Alison Finch and the post. 
"I thought Kerri this weekend looked a lot more in her rhythm, the way she played for us last season as a freshman," Waldrum said. "I think today it's nice to get the goals and stuff, but I thought Kerri did a great job just being very unselfish. Some of the little seams she found, she was just finding those little spaces to get people in." 

After totaling 34 goals and 16 assists last year, the forward entered the game with seven scores this season and just one assist. According to Hanks, that relative lack of productivity had started to eat at her. Now that she helped Notre Dame keep its record unblemished, that tension has eased. 
"I was getting a little down on myself because as a goal scorer I'm supposed to score goals," she said. "But I realized as the season goes on, I don't care if I score anymore as long as we're still winning. If we're undefeated that's all you can ask for. So if someone else [scores] that's perfectly line as long as we're still winning." 
In the 31st minute, Pittsburgh midfielder Corina Sebesta fired a direct kick into the arms of Karas. The shot ended an Irish streak of 106 minutes without allowing an opposing shot on goal dating back to Friday's game. 

The Irish were able to control the Panthers, even though the starting lineup was missing regulars like Jill Krivacek, Cinalli and Weissenhofer to keep Irish legs fresh, before massive substitutions midway through the half. 
With their starting lineup in the game, Notre Dame capital­ized on an own goal when Buczkowski crossed a ball near ­Bock that Panther defender Katie Surma knocked into the net. In the 54th minute, senior defender Christie Shaner's cross found Bock's head before passing the bottom corner of the goal to take a 2-0 lead. 
Pittsburgh coach, and former Irish assistant, Sue-Moy Chin was disappointed in the out­come, but admitted the chal­lenge the Panthers faced. 
"We did a good job of playing but it was sporadic," she said. "The Irish are good. When they put you under pressure, it's hard to get out of it." 
The Irish return to action next weekend against Seton Hall and Hutgers at Alumni Field. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu and Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
Quality . off-campus tious1ng 
Leasing for 2007-2008 school year 
Houses, Townhouses, Apartments 
• 
Close to campus 


• 
Student neighborhoods 

• 
Security systems 


• 
24-hour maintenance staff 


• 
Washers & dryers 

• 
Dishwashers 

• 
Internet ready 

• 
Lawn service 


Pirates 
continued from page 24 
Bobby Clark downplayed his team's victory. 
"It's a good game to win, but I don't think I'll read anymore than that into it right now," Clark said. "There will be other big games to win. !Saturday! was an excellent win, and now we move on to the next game." 
As usual, it was junior for­ward Joseph Lapira providing the spark for the Notre Dame offense. Lapira tallied goals in the 10th and 71st minute to give him 13 on the season, nine more than the next highest Irish scorer. Lapira has scored two goals in three consecutive games, and he has five team. Rellas, with his assist on the first goal, and Thomas, with his assist on Lapira's second goal, tallied their first career points in an Irish uniform. 
Rellas, who has been the main beneficiary in terms of playing time since senior mid­fielder Ian Etherington sus­tained a severe bone bruise in his leg, has pleased Clark with his play. 
"Cory has played well all sea­son, and wherever he's been put, he's played exceptionally well," Clark said. "He has that quiet confidence and a tremen­dous work rate. He's been superb this season." 
While the Irish offense, led by Lapira, has been stellar recent­ly, the Notre Dame defense has been equally impressive as of late. Ineluding their shut-out 
multi-goal games on the season.  "We're coming together as a team. It doesn't happen  of Seton Hall, the Notre Dame defense  
"[Lapiral  in the first couple weeks  has only given  
has a lot of potential," Clark said.  ofthe season, but we're building confidence and  up one goal in their last four games.  
"We said at  we're starting to come  Part  of  the  
the  begin­ together."  credit has to go  
ning of the  to Irish goal­ 
season that  keeper  Chris  
he  has  the  Bobby Clark  Cahill,  who  
potential to  Irish coach  recorded  his  

be the top 
offensive 
player in the 
Big East. That [statement] will 
do for now. Beyond that, he will just need to keep working." 
Lapira's first goal came off a cross from sophomore midlield­er Cory Rellas. Lapira drifted behind his defender, chested the ball down off Rellas's cross and fired the ball past Pirate keeper Paul McHenry. 
Lapira would double Notre Dame's lead oil' a beautiful feed from freshman midfielder Michael Thomas. Thomas got behind the Pirate defense on an Irish counter-attack, drew two Seton Hall defenders atJd laid the ball off to an on-rushing Lapira who again slotted the ball past MeHenry into the cor­ner of the net. 
While Lapira tallying points for the Irish is nothing new, the two Notre Dame goals did con­tain a cou pie of firsts for the 
Tuesday October 3, 2006 O'Laughlin Auditorium 
7:30P.M. 
second consec­
utive shutout 
Saturday night and his fifth shutout on the sea­son. With Cahill in goal, Notre Dame's record is 6-2-1. 
"Cahill wasn't overworked (against Seton Hall). but he's playing with great confidence," said Clark. "He's settled into the position, and he's giving our back four reassurance." 
Notre Dame will return to action this Wednesday night against Michigan in Ann Arbor. The Irish will enter that game riding a three-game winning streak and a four-game unbeat­en streak. 
"We're coming together as a team," Clark said. "It doesn't happen in the first couple weeks of the season, but we're building confidence and we're starting to come together." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
w 
0'1 
C> 
0 
w 
...... 
-:T
...... 
0 )>
u 
z 
!."" z 
>­
1:11:: 
<( < 
...iaiiiliilli~m
~ 
lo-"' V)
z )> 
~ ~ 
::Jil956·2006 




Call today -properties rent quickly. Contact Kramer at 
(574) 315-5Q32fcell) (574) 234•2436toffice) 
To view all of our houses, visit www.kramerhouses.com 
,:.:.::·:·:,:·:xWffll!:n'"· "";.,... 
Featuring: 
• 
The New York Philomusica 

• 
Saint Mary's Women's Choir 

• 
Saint Mary's College music faculty artists Laurel Thomas and Jeffrey Jacob 


~· latin-American. poet Maria Auxiliadora Alvarez 

For tickets, contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at (574) 284-4626. 
$15 Adults $14 Senior Citizens $13 SMC/ND Staff $12 Students 
-fit­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
MoreauCenter.com 


Monday, October 2, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
JOCULAR 
As we enter October and playoff season, I am here to reassure the public that we will continue to distance our·selves from any kind of performance enhancing drugs. 
CROSSAINTWORLD 
01-1 BAS~, ,.,.... ~ u!J\t> 
1'6 /:>. To\C.~ OF ..,_~ 
WE f'OUND E~CI-\ 

Ac.R.oC:.S 'FR-01'-\ 'f OU , '"11-txr lSNT
UNE.. ' A\.\.OW 1--\E Tb 
OTI-tE~ \-IE..fC:.E. AI Nt>. 

L-ET~ ~\'T

\..N)\.£. ~OUR Souf>, 
Le\SEP\f 
-:rus-r Foil. 'Iou.. 
ALEC WHITE 


Official Sponsor of Major League Baseball 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 

SEAR. -ro srr 'fCM \4-l0W1 \IM .~-r"t\f 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, 


to form four ordinary words. 
> 
OPUCE 
j 
I [I I I 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
IKKAH 
rJ I 

± ..
CHINTS 
FOR TH!:: C.HAMP, IT 
www.jumble.com 
WAS A GOOD NIGHT FOR--­
tASTOAN Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.
IJ I I I 
Answer: .. [ 
I I I I I I I I J.. 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Jumbles: MOUSY OZONE IRONIC KISMET
Saturday's Answer: 
What the hotshot salesman wanted when he joined the Army-HIS "COMMISSION" 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 Parental 67 Fine thread demand #2 
1 Capital of Tibet 68 Sequoia, for one 43 General at
6 [Oh, my 69 New Jersey 
Appomattox

heavens!] hoopsters 44 favor
1 o "Get lost, kitty!" 70 Kid's response
(please, in to 20-, 37-and 
(debate retort) 

14 String ties 15 Sharif of film  Spanish) 45 Gumbo  55-Across  
16 Tiny bit 17 Sound after a tear is shed  vegetable 46 "Gee willikers!" 48 Surmounting  DOWN 1 Abbr. on a dumbbell  
18 Shoestring  49 "Hey ... you!"  2_Kong 
19 Unappetizing food  50 Cousin of "ruff!" 51 Column's  3 'That's  !"  

20 Parental counterpart 4 Plays down, asdemand #1 
53"Well,_-di­

an issue 23 Major leaguer dah!" 
5 In reference to 24 British rocker 55 Parental 
6 Sport with Brian demand #3 

woods and 25 Actor Beatty 
61 Supply-and-Woodsdemand subj. 

26 Sheet of ice 7 Part of a Latin62 Long car, for
29 Putin's rejection 101 conjugation
short 32 Sets (down) 
8 Scented pouch 

63 Construction 34 Parachute part piece 9 Fuss over oneself
35 Grooved on 65 Salon job 10 [Isn't he 
36 Lobbying grp. 66 Mishmash dreamy?!] 
11 Massachusetts,ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

e.g., before 1776 12 Makes amends 
13 Not live 21 Dipping dish 22 Like Peary's 

-:':+:+::-t-:':-1 explorations 
•·~~~~[~~~~~··· 26 Govt. media
watchdog 27 Chat room joke 

-=+=+:::+:':-! response 28 Miner's load 30 Nope's 
counterpart =""'=""....._..d......._....__, 31 Pharaoh's land 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 


33 Woe on an 46 Worker with an 56 "This one's observation apron !" deck 
47 From way back 57 Fail to mention 
36 Lilac or violet when 58 Dairy farm 38 India's first P.M. 

48 For some time sounds 

39 Tic-tac-toe win 50 Skillful 59 Take a break
40 Green-lights 41 Surgery sites, 
52 Synthetic fiber 60 Cabbagelike vegetable
for ~hart 

54 "Where there's 42 "Welcome" site 64 Mal de 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name Address _____________________________________ City _____________ State _______ Zip___________ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jay Underwood, 38; Randy Quaid, 56; Rod Carew, 61; Julie Andrews, 71 
Happy Birthday: You have too much to deal with to be introducing new ideas or projects into your life. Work wilh whal you've got. This is a great time to set the record straight. Your numbers are 16, 18, 22, 25, 39,-14 
ARIES (March 21-April19): There isn't a whole lot you can do if someone you are in partnership with won't listen or even meet you halfway. The more valuable you make yourself, the harder it will be for others to say no to you. 2 slars 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): Prepare to defend yourself if someone questions what you have been doing professionally. Not everyone will be able to sec your vision. Don't overreact hut do look for someone who thinks the same way you do. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Today is all about making the most of everything thai is available to you. A different means of entertainment will give you a new outlook on lhe future. Love and romance are in a high cycle. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take a look at what's going on in your own back yard. It may be time to restructure the way things are being done. Someone will oppose your every step bul you must stand your ground. Consider making a move. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make some visual changes at home that will make your life easier but don't overspend. A unique twist to a relationship will help you decide your next move. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): It is the perfect day to get down to business regarding a moneymaking idea. A new way of presenting something old will result in a chance of a lifetime. 5 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Avoid any turmoil at home. An unusual activity or event that you attend will lead to all sorts of new opportunities. Someone you live with will feel threatened by your choices. Steer clear of emotional conflict. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Everything is beginning to unfold. Favors will granted and the chance to do something different will allow you to show your adaptability and raw talent. A change at home will do you a world of good. 4 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can get others to do things for you. A look at your past will reassure you that the changes you are making in the fulure are lo your benefit. Someone close to you will be upset by the changes taking place. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Traveling will tum out to be costly and a waste of valuable time. Your emotional outlook will cloud the way you view things, leading to mistakes and leaving you in a vulnerable position. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): As long as you don't go overboard. you will do amazingly well. Money is heading your way. Stick to whal's politically correct. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't miss out on an opporlunity because someone you are emotionally involved with doesn't want you to get ahead. You may need to question your current partnerships. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are bright, articulate and extremely good al improvising. You can dazzle others with your intellectual outlook. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Monday, October 2, 2006 
page 24 
< 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Brown gets SOOth career win as squad beats Seton Hall 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame head coach Debbie Brown earned her 500th career win Saturday with a victory over Seton Hall -a team to whom Brown and the Irish have never lost. 
The Irish (9-5, 3-0 Big East) swept the Pirates (9-7, 1-2 Big East) 30-22, 30-22, 30-24 Saturday to win their third 
straight match. 

Notre Dame is now in a three-way tie for first place in the Big East with St. John's (4-0) and South Florida (2-0). 
Junior co-captain Adrianna Stasiuk blasted a match-lead­ing 12 kills and also record­ed 10 digs. 
It was Stasiuk's tenth dou­ble-double of the season and she now has 169 total kills ­four behind team leader Christina Kaelin. 
Senior co-captain Danielle Herndon tallied 19 digs -the 12th time this season the Iibera has led the Irish in that category. 
The Irish defense stif1ed the Pirate attack and held them to 
a .091 hitting percentage ­the lowest Notre Dame has held an opposing offense to since Nov. 19, 2005 against Cincinnati. Notre Dame shot .225 for the three games. 
Notre Dame parried a late 
Seton Hall comeback in the third game to take the match on a kill from freshman Megan Fesl that was assisted by freshman Jamel Nicholas. 
The Pirates went on a small run to reduce the Irish lead to 23-19, but Notre Dame went on a 7-5 run to close out the match. 
Seton Hall had a strong start to the first game, open­ing up a 9-5 lead before the Irish could respond. 

Consecutive kills from Stasiuk put the Irish back in the lead in a big way. The score climbed to 21-12 before the Pirates recovered and moved within four points. 
A 6-1 run closed out the opening game with a kill from sophomore Justine Stremick as the game-winner. 
A strategic timeout salvaged the second game for the Irish 
see BROWN/page 21 
ND SOCCER 
Clark's group jumps into second place in division with victory 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 
Notre Dame took another giant step in their ascent up the Big East's Blue Division Standings on Saturday with a 2-0 win over first-place Seton Hall at the New Jersey Institute of Technology. 
The Irish win, combined with other Big East results, leaves Notre Dame in a three-way tie for second place with the Pirates and Providence. All three teams trail first-place West Virginia by one point. 
Although Saturday's victory put the Irish back in the Big East race, Notre Dame coach 
see PIRATES/page 22 

Movin' on up 

JENNIFER KANG and PHIL HUDELSON!fhe Observer Left, Irish forward Joseph Lapira dribbles upfield in Notre Dame's ~ win over Marquette Wednesday. Right, Irish forward Molly Iarocci breaks past a defender in a 5-0 win over Pittsburgh Sunday. 
Waldrum and co. stay unbeaten against West Virginia, Pittsburgh 
By CHRIS KHOREY and TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writers 

Notre Dame's shutout streak ended Friday night, but its win­ning streak didn't. 
ND Sophomore forward Kerri Hanks broke a 1-1 tie with a header with 16:47 left in the game for the winning goal. Senior Amanda Cinalli added an insurance score with four min­utes left to give Notre Dame (11-0, 4-0 Big East) a 3-1 mar­gin over previously unbeaten No. 6 West Virginia (9-1-2, 3-1­1 Big East) on a blustery night at Alumni Field. 
"It all started when [senior 
see UNBEATEN/page 22 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish struggle against top-ranked opponents 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame ran hard, but in the end it wasn't enough. 
Both the Irish men's and women's teams faced tough fields Friday at the Notre Dame Invitational, but only the men were satisfied with their performance, finishing tied for fourth. 
Notre Dame's women's team came in hoping to run well, but fell behind early and had little chance of catching the seven nationally 

ranked teams and finished 12th. 
The women's field featured seven teams ranked in the top 30 -including No. 3 Michigan -lining up against the Irish. By the first mile, these top teams had taken control of the race, pushing Notre Dame's runners back in the pack. This trend only continued at the second mile with the Wolverines leading the pack followed by No. 12 North Carolina State and No. 29 Florida State. 
see INVITE/page 21 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Team hits sunflower state 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
Coming off a disappointing second-place finish in last week's Notre Dame Invitational, the Irish will travel to Lawrence, Kan. to compete in the Marilynn Smith Sunf1ower Invitational today and Tuesday. 
Notre Dame will be without junior Alejandra Diaz­Calderon and freshman Julie Kim, who are out with injuries. 
"It's kind of a week by week thing for both of them," Irish coach Susan Holt said. "Realistically, though, I expect them to be out for the remainder of the fall season." 
Fifteen other teams will take part in the invitational Alvamar Golf Club. Holt said she empha­sized work­ing Notre D a m e ' s short game over the past week of practices in order to trim down 

Holt
the squad's scores to under 300 per round. 
"This course has a lot of hills for being in the middle of Kansas," Holt said. "We worked on a lot of up and down, ledge, bump and run shots, and we worked a lot on putting, which will help at a course like this." 

In the No. 1 slot for the Irish will be senior Noriko Nakazaki, who tied for eighth at last week's tournament. Nakazaki is Notre Dame's all­time leader in scoring aver­age and is averaging 7 5 per round this year. 
Sophomore Lisa Maunu, who has started the year with two top-20 individual finish­es, will be in the second slot. 
Freshman Kristin Wetzel will be in the third slot. 
see KANSAS/page 21 


SMC GOlf 
SMC VOI.lEYBAU 
PGA TOUR 
MLB 
NOTRE DAME 35 

The Belles finish third 
Tiger Woods wins his 
Saint Mary's splits 
Cubs President/CEO 

at the MIAA Jamboree 
sixth straight tourna­
matches with Albion 
Andy McPhail resigns, 

at Blackthorn in South 
ment at the
and Adrian at the 
apologizing for lack of 
Bend Saturday. 
American Express 
on-field success. 
Adrian Triangular 
Championships.
Friday. 
page 18

page 20 
page 20 
page 18 
... .:. ' 





