
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 41 FRIDAY, OCTOBER27, 2006 · 
New Web site offers help for pregnant students 
By MAUREEN MULLEN News Writer 
The Notre Dame Office of Student Affairs launched a new Web site this week dedi­cated to providing support to students facing unplanned pregnancies. 
Ann Firth, associate vice president for Student Affairs, played an instrumental role in creating the site, which explains the University's policy concerning pregnancy and offers information on counsel­ing resources and assistance programs for pregnant stu­dents. Firth, along with a com­mittee of individuals from the Office of Student Affairs, rep­resentatives from the University's Counseling Center and Health Center and stu­dents from Notre Dame Right to Life collaborated to produce the site. 

Firth said the site was not created due to any recent increase in student pregnancy, but simply as "an attempt to give students more informa­tion." It is important that this information be accessible to students online, she said, because the Internet is the place students might first go for information. 
"Oftentimes people don't know where to turn," she said. 

Student Affairs has frequent­ly run "Don't Go It Alone" ads for pregnant students in The Observer, and the new Web site "seemed to be the next logical piece," Firth said. 
Firth said the construction of the site was motivated by a desire to "better articulate what the University believes" -to dispel false understand­ings of the University's preg­nancy policy. 
"I think there is the common misconception that pregnant students could be kicked out of Notre Dame. That," Firth said, "is completely false." 
Notre Dame's studen1io hand­book, duLac, states that "in keeping with its mission as a 
see SITE/page 6 


D.C. program numbers declining 
Football effect deters fall semester applicants; internship opportunities missed 
By KATHLEEN McDONNELL News Writer 
Of the 53 percent of Notre Dame students who participate in an international study pro­gram, most make plans to view Incan ruins, Michelangelo's masterpieces and Egyptian pyr­amids. 
For just a smalJ number of students studying "abroad," the White House tops the sightsee­ing list. 
Six students are studying this fall in Washington, D.C. as part of the Office of International Studies' only domestic program. The program's current capacity is 15 students, but lack of inter­est means sending six this fall and 13 this spring. 
Liz LaFortune, academic coordinator of the Washington Program, attributed some of the dwindling interest to confusion -a domestic program is not "abroad" in the traditional sense -and to the physical movements of the office in the last few years. 
LaFortune named another factor, however, as a more influential deterrent from spending a semester in Washington: a strong football season. 
"We call it the 'Charlie Weis effect,"' LaFortune said. "The Office of International Studies has seen a decrease in fall applications across the board." 
As far as football is con­cerned, the program is unique because students can squeeze in trips to South Bend -junior Dan O'Connell said he returned to campus twice during his stay in the nation's capital last spring. Students studying over­seas likely would not have the same opportunity. 
With studying abroad nearly synonymous with traveling across the continent, the Washington Program offers stu­dents a very different experi­
see STUDY/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Library upgrade planned 
Cluster relocation to first floor considered 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Assistant News Editor 

Keeping with the tide of technological improvements 
· that has recently swept the University, the Office of Information Technologies (OTT) is now looking to give the Hesburgh Library com­puter cluster a major facelift. 
In conjunction with University Libraries staff, OIT is making plans to move the cluster -currently tucked away on the building's second floor -to an open area on the first floor, direct­ly to the left of the current Reference Desk. 
The move, however, will 
mean  a  lot  more  than just  
that.  
"Based  on  the  planning  

stage so far, we wouldn't just be moving what's there," said Nigel Butterwick, University librarian and associate direc­tor for User Services. "We'd be effectively opening a much improved facility on the first floor." 
Butterwick explained that while the physical area allot­ted for the new cluster is not larger than that of its current location, the types of technol­ogy and study spaces avail­able will be far more varied. Plans include not only the 
see LIBRARY/page 4 
Relay raises money 
for cancer research 
By AARON STEINER News Writer 
The University community will gather tonight to cele­brate the progress of cancer research and raise money to advance the fight against cancer in Notre Dame's fourth annual Relay for Life. The event begins at 6:30 p.m. in the Stepan Center and stretches until Saturday at 10 a.m. 
The two-day, one-night event is one of thousands of Relays that happen nation­wide and serve as fundrais­ers for the American Cancer Societv. · Last· year more than 1,000 students, faculty and staff raised roughly $100,000. This year, Dee Dee Sterling and Jessica Brookshire ­two of the event's four co­chairs -expect a similar turnout, but the goal is to exceed last year's total dona­tions. 
In terms of both participa­tion and money raised, Brookshire said Notre Dame ranks "probably in the top 10" of all other college Relay events. 
Relay teams, including res­idence halls and academic departments, raised funds in creative ways, Brookshire said. One team of Holy Cross priests put on an event called "Priests on Wheels" which 
see RELAY/page 4 

Only six Notre Dame students are studying in the Washington Program this fall, though it has a capacity of 15. 



Joumalist discusses poverty 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
News Writer 
A cardboard roof and blan­ket of newspapers are quin­tessential images of poverty, but when the U.S. govern­ment counted more than 37 million people living below the poverty line in 2005, that figure encompassed a much larger segment of the popula­tion than the homeless. 
Pulitzer Prize recipient David Ship~er, a renowned journalist and scholar, spoke Thursday night in the Jordan Auditorium about the millions of families who may sleep in brick houses, but are nonetheless on the breadline -and overlooked -in a lee-
see POVERTY/page 6 



Friday, October 27, 2006 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Living in the 'armpit' 
When I heard on our local news in Scranton, Pa. that NBC was going to adapt the classic British comedy "The Office" for American television -and set it in Scranton -I did not know what to expect. So, I did 
Chris Hine 
a little research and found that some websites 
compared Sports Writer 
Slough, the set­ting for the British version, to an armpit. Ricky Gervais and Stephen Merchant purposely picked a depressing city to underscore the characters' humdrum lives. 
I feared the worst, like the pro­ducers making fun of our economi­cally depressed, Gerry 'McNamara­loving area where you need to know someone who knows a guy jn order to get a good job. The materi­al was there, but how would they use it? 
"Life moves a little slower in Scranton, and that's the way we like it," is the harshest I've heard after 33 episodes. That's not to say they are wrong in depicting Scranton as an armpit, but it is nice that they restrain themselves. The above comment is mostly correct, except life doesn't move slower in Scranton -it is static. 
The character of Jim is a gradu­ate of Bishop Hannan high school and now works in "The Office." One Scranton resident in an interview with the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette said, "I can just see him graduating from Bishop Hannan and getting a job at a local Scranton company. That is what we do here." 
Our grandparents established our family roots there and went to work in the coalmines. Some left after the coalmines went out of style, but many stayed. People complain about how depressing of a city it is, but they never leave. There's some­thing about Scranton that keeps you there. Like any other town, your family and friends are there. For how boring and mundane life may be, it's our home. 
"The Office" has recently put Scranton back on the map and has been a bright spot for the city. Each episode is filled with references to Scranton landmarks like the coalmines or the Steamtown Mall. Rumor has it the producers plan on coming to Scranton to film an episode about our St. Patrick's Day Parade, one of the largest in the country. 
When some of my friends from campus came to Scranton this sum­mer, I felt an odd sense of pride as we drove through Scranton and got our picture taken by the "Scranton Welcomes You" used in the opening credits to the show. I couldn't wait to show them what Scranton was like. 
And before "The Office," I'd never felt pride for my hometown like that. 
Even if it is an armpit. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT BUILDINGS DO YOU THINK ARE HAUNTED ON CAMPUS, AND WHY? 





"Washington pretty sure I've Hall, because seen a dead the Gipper lives 
,

baby preserved on. 
in ajar there. That's gotta cause some kind of evil spirit." 


"Main Building, "Washington because Hall, because I ResLife's in was told 
UThe steam tunnels, because a janitor died there. It also explains why nobody can get into them." 
"All ofSaint Mary's, because my friend's been terrorized by ghosts there.'' 
Students heap Colombian cuisine onto their plates at "Colombian Food for Thought," hosted by sophomore Camila Escallon for Welsh Family Hall. 
OFFBEAT 
School boots 3 girls in 'Underpants' 
LONG BEACH, N.Y.-A high school principal has decreed that Captain Underpants has no place in an institution of learning. 
Three 17-year-old girls were told to leave Long Beach High School on Wednesday after they showed up on Superhero Day costumed as the subject of the best-selling children's books. 
"I didn't know which superhero it was, not that it mattered," said Principal Nicholas Restivo. 
The girls depicted this superhero -who has bat-tied, among other things, talking toilets and the infa­mous Professor Poopypants -by wearing beige leo­tards and nude stockings under white briefs and red capes. 
"Yes, I know they weren't naked," Restivo said. "But the appearance was that they were naked." 
Woman wallops intruder with cooking pot 
MUNCIE, Ind. -A woman watching television in her nightgown raced from her bedroom and attacked a man with a cooking pot after he stole golf clubs from her porch, police said. 
Sabrena Davis said she first grabbed a knife after a neighbor yelled to tell her that a man had taken the clubs, but then decided to instead attack him with a 10-inch cooking pot. 
"I started beating him with it. He asked for it," she said. 
Davis' attack slowed Timothy A. Simison, 27, until police arrested him outside her home Tuesday morning shortly after she had whacked him in the head and shoulders with the pot. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
a: 
1.&.1 
% 
~ 
1.&.1 
~ 
...I 
C( CJ 
0 
..I 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

t ~ ~ •••·~ t HIGH 48 HIGH 44 HIGH 47 HIGH 53 LOW 42 LOW 36 LOW 30 LOW 35 




there." someone died there ... , 
IN BRIEF 

The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra will perform tonight at 8 in Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $6, $5 faculty/st!lff, $4 seniors and $3 all students. 
The bands Angel Melendez and 911 Mambo will perform tonight at 10 at Legends. The concert is free for ND. SMC and HCC students. 
Relay for Life will began at 6 
p.m. today and conclude at 10 
a.m. Saturday at the Stepan Center. 
The Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company will perform "The Tempest.. at 
7:30 tonight in Washington Hall. General tickets cost $7 and student tickets are $5 and are available through the LaFortune box office by calling 631-8128. 
Legends will be hosting a Navy gamewatch at noon Saturday. The event is free and open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross College students. 
Lyons Hall's annual Mara Fox Fun Run -a Sk Run or Walk -will take place Saturday at 
10:30 a.m. The race begins at the lake running path behind Lyons Hall. 
The Asian International Society will host an Asian Spicy Food Festival taking place from 9 to 11 p.m. Saturday in the Keough Hall common room. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 57 HIGH 55 LOW 45 LOW 40 

Atlanta 61 I 52 Boston 52 I 38 Chicago 48 I 43 Denver 56 I 27 Houston 75 I 62 Los Angeles 88 I 55 Minneapolis 50 I 36 New York 57 142 Philadelphia 57 I 39 Phoenix 83 I 55 Seattle 57 I 47 St. Louis 59 I 47 Tampa 85 I 67 Washington 54 I 41 
Friday, October 27, 2006 page 3
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Irish set sail for game vs. Navy in Baltimore 
actually cheering for Notre
Fansflock to Maryland 
Dame because of me and is 
for annual matchup going to be sitting with us in the Notre Dame student sec­tion. We are going to put her 
By MEGHAN WONS 
up for pushups every time News Writer 
Notre Dame scores." Unfortunately, his best friend 
It's more than 600 miles can't host guests at the away, and the results are fairly Academy -"she's kind of on predictable -the Irish haven't lockdown," Mattare said. lost a football game to the Navy Instead, he's staying with Midshipmen since 1963. friends at Loyola College. 
Nonetheless, Notre Dame stu­Before he returns to Notre dents say they are excited to Dame on Sunday, Mattare said set sail for the land of blue he hopes to experience a little crabs and the Chesapeake Bay bit of Maryland culture. and cheer the Irish on to victo­"Crab cakes and football, ry. that's what Maryland does. I'm 
Senior Chris Peterson is driv­going to have to experience ing the 600 miles to Navy with both," he said. friends and roommates. Senior cheerleader Katy 
"It's a lot of driving for the Marvin is excited to be making weekend, but it will be worth the trip to Maryland with the it," Peterson said. Fighting Irish squad. 
Peterson actually received an "I feel really lucky I get to fly appointment to the Academy there," Marvin said. and considered attending. But The Irish will play the his loyalties are not divided -Midshipmen in Baltimore at the he said he is definitely hoping M&T Bank Stadium -home for an Irish victory. field of the NFL's Baltimore 
He is staying with a friend Ravfms. who attends Loyola College in When the game kicks off on Maryland and hopes to check Saturday at 12:12 p.m., Notre out Baltimore's inner harbor Dame will attempt to add over the weekend. another victory to its 42-game 
Also driving to the game with winning streak, the longest of friends is junior Matt Mattare. its kind in college football. Originally from Allentown, Pa., Notre Dame has not lost to Mattare is meeting up with Navy since 1963, and leads the some friends from home while series 69-9-1. back on the East Coast. 
"My best friend actually goes Contact Meghan Wons at to Navy," Mattare said. "She is mwons@nd.edu 
SMC dads come to campus 
Navy Game at the College which MacKinnon and herCasino night, tailgate Football Hall of Fame, committee are all members. beginning at 11:30 a.m. Senior Board, however, isn't
on agendafor zveekend 
Saturday and lasting until actually donating any after the game. There will money; funding relies entire­
By MANDl STIRONE 

also be a Chinese auction ly on the fee that the fathers 
News Writer 

during the tailgate, pay, MacKinnon said. MacKinnon said. MacKinnon said their main 
Fathers of Saint Mary's The weekend concludes goal was to plan activities women are descending upon with an 11:15 that every sen­campus today, ready to a.m. Mass at the ior would begin the annual Senior Church of ·7 am excited for enjoy, not just 
Dads' Weekend. Loretto on my dad to really a particular "I think it's important Sunday, group. She and
meet my friends
because it is a time that you MacKinnon said. her committee and your dad get to spend After the Mass, and to spend time were still with each other," Senior Saint Mary's stu­with them. ,, working on Dads' chair Meghan dents and their last-minute MacKinnon said. "He is able fathers are free details 
Meghan MacKinnon 
to see his daughter at her to do whatever Wednesday. school. He can experience they want. chair "I am excited first hand the life she holds "We will also Senior Dads' Weekend for my dad to at her home away from have alternative really meet my home." events that friends and to 
Tonight's "Casino Night" in include golfing specials at spend time with them," 
the Student Center kicks off Blackthorn Golf Club and MacKinnon said. "I want to the weekend. Fathers and discounts at Chippewa show him just how much this daughters will play casino Bowl," MacKinnon said. school means to me and how games from Blackjack to MacKinnon and her com­he, with my mom, make that Texas Hold 'Em. There will mittee of Sophia Nechvatal, all possible." also be a live auction and Kathryn Nussbaum, Helen Even seniors whose fathers Saint Mary's a Casey and can't make it, like Lisa cappella Nicole Leach Hannewyk, are looking for­g r o u p "/ think ifs important began plan­ward to the weekend. 
Bellacapella ning Senior Hannewyk said one of her
because it is a time
will be per­Dads' Weekend friends' fathers is going to forming that you and your last year. In "adopt" her for the weekend. throughout dad get to spend with April of 2006 Of course, seniors whose the night, they reserved fathers are coming are excit­
each other. ,,
MacKinnon locations and ed as well. said. dates, and they "[My dadJ had a lot of fun 
MacKinnon Meghan MacKinnon honed in on when he came with my sister also said that chair details after four years ago so I'm looking after Friday's summer break, to kind of show her up," sen­
Senior Dads' Weekend 
activities MacKinnon ior Britni McElligott said. fathers and said. daughters will attend a tail­The event was sponsored Contact Mandi Stirone at 
gate for the Notre Dame-by the Senior Board, of astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
ATTENTION, all LAW, MBA, and GRADUATE students: 
Student Affairs and the Graduate School want your feedback. In the next couple ofdays, you will receive an e-mail invitation to complete an on-line survey about your experiences as graduate and professional students at the University. Please take the time to participate in this important survey. Your responses will help to shape the future oj'graduate and professional student life at Notre Dame. 
+  ALL students who,complete the survey will receive a compliment(lty me(ll pqss to either dining hall.  
+  All participants will also be registered in a lottery to win one ofmany available prizes, including:  
$50 gift: c(lr~s to P(lpq Vino's  
Computets  $50 gift: cat~s to the ND Bookstore  
$100 gift cat~s to the DPAC  Meal passes for a week (14 meals) to either ~ining h(lll  

page 4 Friday, October 27, 2006 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Library 
continued from page 1 
traditional desktop comput­ers and workspaces, but also casual chairs with foldout desks for laptop use. 
Group use is also being emphasized in the design, with the addition of desks at which several students can work together, and an area 

·'A lot ofstudents don't
with a data for use in the projector and want to carry their cluster or the screen where greater
laptops all over campus,
groups can library,
so an opportunity to

practice pre­according to sentations. borrow one to work with Butterwick, 
"This is an allowing them
at the library is a 

experimental greater
positive thing." 

set-up to some mobility than degree, the current because we'll Jim Grace desktop-only be wanting to facility pro­
chair 

see how the vides.

Student Senate Committee
different fur­"We know a 

on Academic Affairs 

n i t u r e lot of students 
arrangements are used, whether students find the informal or formal desks more useful and whether they use the presentation area," Butterwick said. 
He also explained that while current plans feature an open design -as opposed to the currently enclosed cluster -the potential noise of groups working together has been accounted for. 
"The way we have designed it, the nearer the part of the facility is near to Reference desk, the more noisy it's like-



Study 
continued from page 1 
ence. 
"I did feel like I was missing out on something compared to an international program, since I was still in the LUnited States]," senior and Washington Program alumnus Joe Dosch said. "However, the internship opportunities in D.C. can't be matched by any of the study abroad programs, so for me that outweighed the benefits of going abroad." 
O'Connell was one of three students who paired the Washington Program sopho­more year with a parliamentary internship in the London ly to be," he said. "So the quieter part of the cluster Lwithout the group study and presentation areas] would be towards the windows, which will still have the traditional individual study seating." 

The cluster will also feature another technological step forward on OIT's part -the substitution of laptops instead of desktops for many of the University's computing offerings. Students will be able to bor­row laptops 
have laptops 
of their own, but even they use the clusters from time to time," Butterwick said. "So for the sake of convenience and innovation, we want to make laptops a major way of pro­viding access to University computers." 
Chair of the Student Senate Committee on Academic Affairs Jim Grace has seen the early plans, and said he considers the improvements to the technology and study spaces beneficial to students. 
"A lot of students don't 
experiences of many students overseas, the Washington pro­gram is focused on what one student deemed a "real-life immersion," LaFortune said. 
"The program offers a unique opportunity to live, learn and work in the 
'"It's a definite

program resume, inter­tisements. She emphasized during junior advantage to viewing and then close work with teachers of year. This working four days entry-level political science
essentially live the life 

option allows a week among the courses, especially since the
ofa Congressional

students to nation's leaders is program encourages those of "spend a staffer before going into a huge advantage all majors to apply and a wide semester for students in the array of students take the
the job market. ·• 

right in the job search, entry-level courses. heart of the LaFortune said. While applications may be political Dan O'Connell There may be down, participant enthusiasm is action," as junior more preparatory certainly not diminished. 
'"Students combine 
nation's capital," world experience she said. coursework with while you're still "Students com­public policy visits in college, which 
bine coursework is a great benefit
and with
with public policy when I'm looking visits and with internship for a job after." 
..

internship experi­In an attempt to
experzences.
ences." increase applica­Once accepted tions for 2007,
Liz LaFortune
to the program, LaFortune said the the coordinators academic coordinator program has help students Washington Program made a strong apply for eight to effort this year to 10 internships. reconnect with The experience of academic departments and to preparing a aggressively recruit with adver­
want to carry their laptops all over campus, so an oppor­tunity to borrow one to work with at the library is a posi­tive thing," Grace said. "And, especially for business majors, a place to practice presentations will be nice." 
Butterwick called the proj­ect "a meeting of the minds" between OIT and University Libraries staff, with talks between the two groups starting around a year ago during which both agreed "the current cluster was dated in appearance." 
And while no construction timeline has been set, he said he would be "disappointed" if they hadn't garnered suffi­cient funding for it by sum­mer 2007-though none has been raised so far, and he could not provide a cost esti­mate. 
Nevertheless, Butterwick was positive about the proj­ect, describing it as a chance for the library staff and OIT to work together to provide students with valuable resources. 
"From our perspective, we see this as an opportunity to work side by side with OIT, so that students using this facili­ty will be able to get refer­ence help from reference librarians, who will be work­ing right alongside the clus­ter's OIT staff," Butterwick said. "So it'll hopefully be like a one-stop shop of assis­tance." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

O'Connell interned with Senator Chris Dodd and felt the experience was invaluable. 
"It's a definite advantage to essentially live the life of a Congressional staffer before going into the job market," he said. "It gives you real 
O'Connell put it, and to spend another overseas where cultural differences are acute. 
The 20-25 hour-a-week internships are the cornerstone of the Washington program, which is unique in offering each student a chance for real work experience, LaFortune said. While language and cultural immersion characterize the work for this pro­

gram than others in this regard, she said, but the lack of language barrier cuts down on the prerequisites. 
Students last year had oppor­tunities to intern with senators, representatives, Meet the Press, the United Nations Information Center and the Democratic National Committee, among others. 
"For people who have even a slight interest in politics, it's a great experience, especially when you add classes with pro­fessors who come directly out of the fields in which they teach," O'Connell said. "I'd encourage anyone who is thinking about it to go." 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 


tributed to the event's suc­cess, Sterling said. Notre


Relay 

Dame has many ties to the American Cancer Society,
continued from page 1 

Brookshire said, noting that 
featured team members rid­ing tricycles for donations. Different departmental and staff teams have organized Blue Jean Fridays, and Food Services again held a Pie Sale as a fund raiser. Online dona­
"The event
tions through ipants are the event's Web provides a great fighting cancer, site also consti­know someone
visual ofpeople
tute a signifi­with the illness,
caring."
cant part of the are survivors, funds raised, or know some­Sterling said. Dee Dee Sterling one who has 
With incen­lost a battle
co-chair 
tives such as a with cancer.

Relay for Life 
Relay for Lifefree semester of books for the student who raises the most money, and a pair of free round-trip airline tickets for the staff member with the most funds raised, fundraising has always been successful for this event, the co-chairs said. 
Substantial support from the University has also con-
Provost Thomas Burish sits on the Cancer Society's National Board of Directors. 
Students and staff support the cause for many different reasons, Sterling said. 
"[Cancer] hits all of us in a different way," she said, whether partic­
is one way for 
these people affected by cancer to gather and support the fight against the disease. 
"The event provides a great visual of people caring," Sterling said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
Introducing 
Parmesan and 
·-~·--r.· 
with Your Choice of Meat Sau~~ o;r~arinara Sauce. For ~ tfiifiited Time. 

· , Unmistakably Italian •\Unbelievably Good 
5ll0 Edison Lakes Parkway • Mishawaka 
271-1692 



Friday, October 27, 2006 CoMPI LED FROM THE OBsERVER'S \VJ RE SERVlCEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


Ethiopian civilian protesters killed 
ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia -Ethiopia acknowledged Thursday that security forces killed 193 civilians protesting election fraud last year but insisted excessive force was not used. 
The figure -three times an earlier official toll-had been revealed last week by a sen­ior judge who accused the government of try­ing to cover up the findings. 
Mekonnen Disasa, the newly appointed head of the inquiry board, was the only mem­ber to appear before reporters Thursday. He refused to take questions after his presenta­tion, during which he said security forces used reasonable force to quell post election distur­bances. 

Iranian officials condemn bombing 
BUENOS AIHES, Argentina -An Iranian envoy said Thursday that Argentine prosecu­tors' accusations linking former high-level Iranian officials to the 1994 bombing of a Jewish cultural center were unfounded and an attempt to find a "scapegoat" for the attack. 

Mohsen Baharvand, Iran's charge d'affaires here, told The Assodated Press that his gov­ernment still vigorously condemns the bomb­ing that killed 85 and wounded 200 others, calling it a "horrible act." 
On Wednesday, two Argentine special prose­cutors asked a federal judge to order the arrest of former Iranian President Hashemi Rafsanjani and seven others for the bombing. 
Special Prosecutor Alberto Nisman said the decision to attack the center "was undertaken in 1993 by the highest authorities of the then­government of Iran." He also alleged that the actual attack was entrusted to the Lebanon­based group Hezbollah. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Rumsfeld: no demands for progress 
WASHINGTON-Defense Secretary Donald 

H. Rumsfeld said Thursday that anyone demanding deadlines for progress in Iraq should "just back ofl'." because it is too difficult to pre­dict when Iraqis will resume control of their country. 
During an often-combative Pentagon news conference, Rumsfeld said that while bench­marks for security, political and economic progress are valuable, "it's difficult. We're look­ing out into the future. No one can predict the future with absolute certainty." 
He said the goals have no specific deadlines or consequences if they are not met by specific dates. 
"You're looking for some sort of a guillotine to come falling down if some date isn't met," Rumsfeld told reporters. "That is not what this is about." 

Early Colorado blizzard hits hard 
DENVER-The biggest October snowstorm , to hit Colorado in several years dumped more than 2 feet Thursday, grounding flights, clos­ing highways, knocking out electricity -and jump-starting the ski season. 
The storm began late Wednesday and turned highways wet and slushy across the state. At one point, snow was falling at a rate of about 3 inches an hour in Denver. A 125­mile corridor from Colorado Springs to the New Mexico line was under a blizzard warn­ing. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Man pleads guilty to fraud scheme 
INDIANAPOLIS -A man charged with lining up investors for what prosecutors say was a $4.2 million mortgage-fraud scheme has agreed to plead guilty, his attorney said. 
Federal prosecutors on Thursday charged John Wagner, 46, of Indianapolis, with money laundering and conspiracy to com­mit mail fraud. The charges stem from loans obtained from ABN-AMRO of Michigan between late 2000 and early 2002 for houses in low-income neighborhoods of Indianapolis. 
IRAQ 

War's death toll hits monthly high 
At least 96 troops dead so far this month, equaling October 2005 total 
Associated Press  
BAGHDAD - American  
troop deaths in Iraq hit their  
highest monthly total in  a  
year on Thursday but as  
U.S. forces clamped down  
on  the  capital militants  
struck in a city to the north,  
where 30 police and gun­ 
men were killed in a series  
of shootouts.  
The latest U.S. deaths-a  
Navy  sailor  and  four  
Marines - all were killed  
Wednesday in volatile Anbar  
province, west of Baghdad  
and a hotbed of the Sunni  
resistance to U.S. forces and  
their  Iraqi  government  
allies.  
At least 96 U.S. troops  
have died so far this month,  
equaling the level for the  
whole of October 2005 - a  
factor in rising anti-war  
sentiment in  the United  
States that has prompted  
calls for President Bush to  
change strategy. There have  
been only three months in  
which more U.S. forces died  
in  Iraq: 107 in January  
2005; at least 135 in April  
2004, and 137 in November  
2004.  
However, U.S. officials  
have linked October's higher  
death toll to a  historical  
spike in violence during the  
Muslim holy month of Ram-· AP  
adan, additional U.S. mili­Soldiers pay respect at Spc. Daniel V. Winegeart's funeral, who died in Iraq this month.  
tary vulnerability because of October's death toll is the war's fourth highest.  
the  security  drive  in  
Baghdad and the coming  the number within our clear  chief of surrounding Diyala  return to the  area  after  
American midterm elec­ areas which we are trying  province, said those killed  Iraqi security forces  were  
tions.  to  watch  very  closely,"  included 12 police officers  unable to stem the blood­ 
The U.S. military spokes­ Caldwell said. "It could be a  and 18 gunmen.  shed.  
man, Gen. William B. Cal­ multitude of things that are  The  clashes  followed  In Najaf, south of Bag­ 
dwell, said the capital's spi­ bringing down the level of  fighting this week between  hdad, authorities temporari­ 
raling murder  rate  had  violence."  the Mahdi Army and police  ly closed Iraq's holiest Shiite  
eased since the end of the  Fighting shifted on Thurs­ aligned with a rival Shiite  shrine after receiving a tip  
Ramadan early this week ­ day from  the capital to  militia, the Badr Brigade, in  that suicide bombers wear­ 
possibly because of the mas­ Baqouba,  a  chaotic city  the  southern  city  of  ing explosives belts had  
sive deployment of U.S.  north of Baghdad, where 30  Amarah. At least 31 people  infiltrated city. The shrine  
troops searching for a miss­ing soldier.  police and militants were killed and 42 people were  were killed, including six police officers who were  was reopened several hours later. ·  
Ramadan ended on Sun­ wounded in gunbattles.  dragged out oftheir houses.  In the northern city of  
day for Sunnis and Monday  The fighting around Baq­ Mahdi militiamen have  Mosul, authorities extended  
for Shiites. Since then, mur­ ouba, 35 miles from the  recently moved aggressively  an overnight curfew until 3  
ders in parts of Baghdad  capital, marks the latest  into several mixed areas  p.m. Friday after Sunni gun­ 
where security forces have  outbreak  of  bloodshed  around Baghdad, killing  men distributed leaflets pro­ 
established a f'Irm presence  involving militants believed  some Sunnis and forcing  claiming the mixed Sunni­ 
have fallen by 10-20 per­ to be members of the Mahdi  many others to flee their  Kurdish area a part of an  
cent, Caldwell said at  a  Army militia loyal to hard­ homes in a form ofsectarian  Islamic state declared earli­ 
weekly news brief'Ing.  line anti-American cleric  cleansing. Militia killings  er this month by an insur­ 
"We  did in  fact  see  a  Muqtada al-Sadr.  last week in Balad, near Ba­ gent umbrella group, the  
tremendous downturn in  Ghassan al-Bawi, police  qouba, forced U.S. troops to  Mujahedeen Shura Council.  







Calif. arsonist wildfire kills four 
park to stay put to leave the roads The Forest Service crew was trying
Associated Press 
clear for firefighters. Hundreds of oth­to protect a house as dry desert winds 
POPPET FLAT. Calif. -A wind­ers in the area were forced from their of 25 mph or more blew a wall of whipped wildfrre started by an arsonist homes. flames down on them in the hills killed four firefighters Thursday and Fire officials said the fire was delib­northwest of Palm Springs. stranded up to 400 people in an RV erately set around 1 a.m. and had "They had left their truck to do park when flames burned to the edge blackened 10,000 acres within 12 structure protection when the fire of the only road out, officials said. hours. Fire Chief John Hawkins said overran them," said Forest Service 
"Everybody is hunkered down here. the arson "constitutes murder." spokesman Pat Boss, adding the They're fighting the f'Ire around us. It's It was the deadliest wildfire frrefight­flames came do\\11 so quickly they had across the street from us," said ing disac;ter in the United States since no time to retreat to their engine or Charles Van Brunt, a ranger at the sta­July 10, 2001, when four firefighters use protective sheltering. tion at the entrance to Silent Valley were killed in Washington's Okanogan Three firefighters died at the scene Club, the recreational vehicle park National Forest. They died after and two were hospitaliz(~d in critical near Palm Springs. The residents were becoming trapped by flames on a condition. One of those two died sever­in no immediate danger, he said. dusty dead-end road in a remote al hours later. The other had burns 
Authorities asked people in the RV canyon. over 95 percent of his body, Boss said. 


Friday, October 27, 2006 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Site 
continued from page 1 
Catholic university, Notre Dame is committed to life and to offering students resources that support the choice of life. Therefore, the University will make every effort to provide pregnant students with caring, non-judgmental. professional assistance and support." 
The new Student Affairs Web site elaborates on duLac's explanation of University policy by providing a list of assistance programs on campus. The names and contact information for individuals in Campus Ministry, the Counse1ing Center and Health Services are avail­able on the site as resources for students -pregnant, or simply affected by pregnancy -to contact. 
The site features a Frequently Asked Questions page that, Firth said, "presents information in a more user­friendly way." "Where can I go to get a free pregnancy test?" is one question included on the FAQ page. The answer: Notre Dame Health Center or the Women's Care Center of South Bend. The page stresses confi­dentiality in all medical and counseling visits. 
The Web site names Firth as one of the University's three Pregnancy Support Advocates -a position that provides con­fidential information and coun­seling assistance to students. Assistant Vice Presidents for Student Affairs Sister Sue Dunn and Sister Jean Lenz are Notre Dame's other Support Advocates. 
Lenz, who served as Farley Hall's rector for 10 years, still lives in Farley and has long been a campus counseling resource for students facing unplanned pregnancy. 
"I have taken a pastoral role in trying to help an individual that is pregnant," she said. 
Lenz said throughout her time at Notre Dame, it has always been a priority of hers to ensure that pregnant stu­dents be provided proper med­ical care, counseling and sup­port. 
"That is why we are there ­to help in any way we can," she said. 
In addition individuals on University staff, Lenz said a number of students from Notre Dame Hight to Life played a large role in the creation of the Web site. 
"Students were critical to our discussion," she said. 
Members of the pregnancy resource sub-committee of the Right to Life Club compiled a 20-page proposal for the preg­nancy assistance Web site and presented the proposal to Student Affairs last spring, said sophomore Jessica Hagemann, the committee's commissioner. 
Hagemann said included in their proposal were examples of other Catholic colleges across the nation who provided pregnancy support Web sites to students. 
"We hoped it would persuade Notre Dame to create a similar site," she said. "Our reasoning was that Notre Dame, as a Catholic institution, needed to present our women with pro­life options on campus so that they wouldn't feel helpless and be pushed to other options." 
Contact Maureen Mullen at mmullenl@nd.edu 


Poverty 
continued from page 1 
ture bearing the name of his latest book: "The Working Poor: Invisible in America." 
"The first step is to see the problem, and the first prob­lem is the failure to see the people," Shipler said. "I'm talking about the guy who washes the cars but doesn't own them, and just stands on the edge of an affluent socie­ty." 
The cause of this phenome­non can be traced back to Benjamin Franklin's promise and the deeply embedded myth that in the U.S. dedica­tion and integrity will lead any man to prosperity, Shipler said. While this mentality can be a source of motivation, he said, it may also be detrimen­tal and biased against people who aren't able to succeed despite their efforts. 
Poverty, he said, is not merely the result of laziness or lack of enthusiasm among the lowest class. 
"Poverty behaves like an ecological system, where the fate of the individual depends on his interactions and his relationships with the commu­nity and the economic envi­ronment and other institu­tions," Shipler said. 
lie illustrated his explana­tion with the story of Lisa Brooks, a woman he encoun­tered when he was conducting his research. 
Brooks was a single mother earning the minimum wage who couldn't afford to make significant improvements to her house. 
As a result of the mold and dust bites in her home, her son became ill with asthma and was rushed to the hospi­tal a couple of times. 
Brooks' health insurance took care of the hospital bill but didn't cover the ambu­lance expenses. She was unable to pay them out of her pocket, and soon her credit record was stained. 
When she tried to take out a loan for a new car, she was rejected numerous times ­forcing her to buy a dubious used car within her immedi­ate budget. 
Shipler said that in many cases like Brooks', "Housing can actually contribute to malnutrition and illness." 
In fact, when families are pressed to make the obligato­ry rent, insurance and utilities payments, the only expenses that can be reduced and squeezed are those related to nutrition. 
"When the children aren't properly fed, you will begin to see learning problems devel­op," Shipler said. 
He said approximately 25 to He spoke of another woman 50 percent of the children he he knew, a drug addict who interviewed while preparing was able to overcome her "The Working Poor: Invisible dependence with the simulta­in America" admitted they neous help !Jf different institu­usually didn't understand tions -including the court what their teachers said dur­that decided to give her the ing class. opportunity to change instead 
Soon, a cycle begins, Shipler of locking her in a prison cell, said. the federal government that 
"When you don't understand sponsored her rehabilitation what is happening in the program, the company that classroom, you won't find joy decided to hire her and train in learning, and you will feel her despite her marred police stupid and inadequate in records and the Church that school, and soon you will be helped her regain confidence asking yourself what is the in herself. point of stay-"If any of ing there," these factors Shipler said. "Poverty behaves like an hadn't 
He said a worked out
ecological system, where 
person with­perfectly, I 
out a high the fate ofthe individual think she school diplo­depends on his would've ma will earn fallen back,"
interactions and his
approximately Shipler said.
relationships with the
$260,000 less But he over his life­community and the recognized time, which the difficulty
economic environment 
means he will in aligning
and other institutions."
also pay those key about $60,000 players in less in taxes David Shipler favor of the than someone underprivi­
Pulitzer Prize recipient 
who gradu­leged. ates from ''I'm wait-high school -ing impa­which only places heavier tiently for business leaders to burdens on the rest of the tax­invest heavily on public edu­payers. cation, and public health and 
Shipler once again reminded housing programs," he said. the audience that the poverty " ... Employers keep complain­of one is in reality the poverty ing they don't have enough of many. skilled workers, and that 
"When someone succeeds some of their workers can't [and improves his standard of even find intersections on living] everything has to line maps or calculate a 10 per­up perfectly." cent discount." 
0 
0 
G


Monday, Oct. 30 u 
L A 

6ptn-10prn o s 

R 

GRAPE RD. 
While that may not be the path towards sustaining a competitive advantage in a global economy, Shipler said the country's business leaders were slow to see beyond next quarter's earnings and invest in the future of their work­force. 
The responsibility to make poverty history in the U.S., however, also falls on individ­ual citizens, Shipler said. 
He asked his audience how many people would be willing to pay slightly higher taxes if they were sure that money would really improve a public school or hospital. 
More than half of the people in the auditorium raised their hands. 
Shipler then asked how many of those people had informed their congressmen or their senators of their will­ingness. 
Just 10 people in the room raised their hands a second time. 
"Ladies and gentlemen," Shipler said, "this is a time and a situation that requires civil action." 
Junior Nate Serazin appre­ciated Shipler's take on the poverty issue. 
"So often we view poverty as being merely a problem of lack of wealth," he said. "It's nice to be reminded that poverty is so much more com­plicated than that ... it's a problem that requires a com­plicated solution -a team effort to address issues such as health care, education, and housing." 
$1.00 GAMES $1.00 SHOES VVear a costun1e and 
bovvl for 31 ¢ a game! 
A panel of three profession­als responded Shipler immedi­ately following his lecture. 
Jen nif'er Warlick, chair of the economics and policy studies department, praised Shipler's conclusion that the ingredients of poverty in North America are "part financial, part psychological, part societal, part personal, part past and part present." 
Dawn Chapla, a community service liaison from United Way, spoke about poverty in St. Joseph County. There are currently more than 2,000 grandparents acting as sole caregivers, putting children in vulnerable positions and unstable home environments. 
Chapla said the number of single mothers has also increased in the last decade, from 6.9 percent to 8.6 per­cent of the population. 
Joe Holt, director of the Executive Education Program in the Mendoza College of Business, commented on the relevance of Shipler's studies in light of "Economic Justice for All," a pastoral letter on Catholic social teaching and the U.S. economy prepared by 
U.S. bishops in 1986. 

The lecture, in recognition of the 20th anniversary of that letter, was sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns, the department of theology, the department of economics and policy studies, and the Masters in Nonprofit Administration. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 


Friday, October 27, 2006 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
12,163.66 +28.98
}ones 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,256 148 1,029 2,779,051,2 I 0 

FTSf I OO(Lonclon) 6,184.80 -29.80 
%CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICECOMPANY ------· 

NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) +0.92 +0.39 42.82 
INTEL CP (INTC) +0.23 +0.05 21.77 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) + 1.13 +0.06 5.36 
MICROSO::T CP (MSFT) +0.14 +0.04 28.35 
Treasuries 
I 0-YEAR NOTE -1.09 -0.052 4. 721 13-WEEK BILL -0.20 -0.010 4.975 30-YEAR BOND -1.14 -0.056 4.841 5-YEARNOTE -1.22 -0.058 4.693 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.04 60.36 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +9.00 599.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +2.65 92.18 
Excha Rates 

YEN 118.6250 
EURO 0.7874 
POUND 0.5291 
CANADIAN$ 
1.1232 

IN BRIEF 
CEO'ssalary increases at time oflayoffs 
NEW YORK -As if Countrywide Financial Corp.'s CEO isn't getting paid enough, the mortgage lender's board is taking the unprecedented step of lavishing him with $10 million in retirement money. 
And he isn't even retiring. 

Countrywide is spinning it as a "reimburse­ment" because Angelo Mozilo agreed to stay on at the helm until 2009 instead of retiring this year as was expected. That will come on top of the hefty salary he will get to stay at work. 
The company released details of Mozilo's financial package on the same day it announced plans to lay off 2,500 Countrywide employees. Talk about tone-deaf timing. 
Mozilo has long drawn flak for his pay, which the Calabasas, Calif.-based company has defended as appropriate since under Mozilo's watch Countrywide has become the nation's largest mortgage lender. 
Dow closes with fourth straight record 
NEW YORK -Wall Street extended its rally Thursday as robust earnings at Exxon Mobil Corp. and Aetna Inc. helped ground investors as they tried to reconcile divergent economic data. 
The Dow Jones industrials, lifted in part by component Exxon Mobil, had their fourth con­secutive record high close. The generally upbeat earnings reports of the past two weeks have helped power the blue chips as well as the rest of the stock market; Thursday's batch of earnings also helped investors digest a pair of government reports that suggested an eco­nomic soft landing might be harder to achieve. 
The market was initially inspired by Commerce Department durable goods data that indicated capital spending jumped by the most in more than six years. But stocks then fell on a report from the department that new home prices plunged at its steepest pace since 1970. 
Investors were particularly wary after the Federal Heserve said Wednesday it remains concerned about inflation even as the econo­my is slowing. 
"Things on the horizon are becoming less and less visible," said IIugh Moore, a partner with portfolio manager Guerite Advisors. 



ExxonMobil earns record numbers 
Second-largest quarterly profit set by a publicly traded U.S. company 
Associated Press 

DALLAS -Oil industry behemoth Exxon Mobil Corp. said Thursday its third-quarter earnings rose to $10.49 billion, the second-largest quar­terly profit ever recorded by a publicly traded U.S. company. Its shares rose to a 52-week high. 
The report comes as high crude prices this year have fueled record profits in the oil industry, triggering an outcry from consumers who were being asked to pay about $3 a gallon for gasoline in early August. 
The largest quarterly profit ever was Exxon Mobil's $10.71 billion profit in the fourth quar­ter of 2005. 
They may beat that next quarter, said Howard Silverblatt Standard & Poor's Senior Index Analyst. "Then in all likelihood they will be at that $40 billion mark for the year." 
That would put the company on track for the highest annual profit ever by a U.S. company. Exxon Mobil holds that record with a 2005 profit of $36.1 billion. 
Although crude oil prices began to decline toward the end of the third quarter, the aver­ago. Another major interna­ings fell 3.6 percent to age market price for The results surpassed tional oil company, Royal $6.2 3 billion. crude held at around $70 the expectations of Wall Dutch Shell PLC said its A fifth major oil compa­a barrel in the period Street analysts. On aver­third-quarter profit fell ny, Chevron Corp., is after peaking above $78 age, analysts expected 34 percent to $5.94 bil­expected to report its per barrel in July. Oil the company to earn lion even as revenues results Friday. futures prices have $1.59 per share in the rose 10 percent to $84.3 High oil prices helped recently traded near $61 quarter. billion. But the Anglo­Irving, Texas-based a barrel, and gasoline Exxon Mobil shares Dutch company's operat­Exxon Mobil realize prices have dropped to rose $1.32, or 1.8 per­ing profit rose as higher earnings from its oil and an average of about cent, to a new 52-week oil prices outweighed gas drilling activities of $2.43 a gallon. high of $72.33 in morn­worsening refining mar­$6.49 billion, up 13 per­
Exxon Mobil, the ing trading on the New gins. cent from the prior year. world's biggest public oil York Stock Exchange. Earlier this week, The company also saw company said its net Revenue fell to $99.59 ConocoPhillips reported stronger earnings from income amounted to billion from $100.72 bil­its profit rose 2 percent its refining operations $1.77 per share for the lion from a year ago, to $3.88 billion in the and gas stations, and July-September period, which saw then-record third quarter while profits at its chemicals up from $9.92 billion, or oil prices because of hur­another major oil compa­segment more than dou­$1.58 per share, a year ricanes Katrina and Rita. ny, BP PLC, said its earn-bled. 


IBM's mainframe revenue increases 
Associated Press After dropping nearly 8 percent in new mainframes in the past year, and 
2005, IBM's mainframe revenue is up sales eventually should taper until an 
BOSTON-Cheap little servers han­1 0 percent this year. That includes a upgrade comes, at least a year from dle so much of the Internet's dirty 25 percent gain in the most recent now. Such ups and downs are typical: work that giant computers known as quarter. Mainframes were IBM's Unisys Corp., a much smaller vendor, mainframes, which debuted 50 years fastest-growing hardware segment has seen mainframe sales drop this ago and often cost more than $1 mil­after the microchip division, which is year, but spokesman Brian Daly said lion, are supposed to be passe. enjoying a nice ride making micro­the numbers strengthened in the third 
When Hopton Infotainment, a start­processors for the top three video quarter with the release of a new up video game company in Brazil, let game consoles. model. it be known that it uses a mainframe IBM does not release precise fig­Still, for IBM to be having success to operate its signature online game, ures, but analysts estimate mainframe with mainframes at all is somewhat "People would actually take a step revenue at roughly $2.3 billion in the surprising. Because if you were to back and say, 'What? Did I hear cor­first nine months of 2006. While that break modern computing history into rectly?'" said Tarquinio Teles, is a small chunk of IBM's overall sales its simplest terms, it would go some­Hopton's CEO. of $65 billion so far this year, main­thing like this: There was the central­
Yet mainframes are inspiring new frame revenue is especially precious ized-mainframe era, and then there ways of doing things at organizations because the machines drive huge soft­was the distributed-computing era. like Hoplon. The trend is driven by ware and maintenance deals, making And the latter ended a while ago. and anxiously watched at IBM Corp., them IBM's most profitable line of Mainframes emerged in the 1950s whieh makes the vast majority of the hardware. as room-sized hubs that did it all. world's remaining mainframes and Of course, the hugf~ third-quarter They crunched numbers, adminis­continues to be hugely reliant on boost is unlikely to be sustained. IBM tered transactions, ran simulations them. is benefiting from having released two and stored data. 


page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 27, 2006 

Friday, October 27, 2006 
The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Pigs may be source of spinach contamination 
E. coli outbreak causes sickness, 3 deaths 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Wild pigs may have spread deadly bac­teria onto a California spinach field, sparking an outbreak that killed three people and sickened more than 200 others nationwide, investigators said Thursday. They also said the outbreak appears to be over. 
No one has become ill from eating contaminated spinach since Sept. 25. "All evidence points to this outbreak having concluded," said Dr. Kevin Reilly of the California Department of Health Services. 
State and federal investiga­tors have narrowed their focus to the ranch, where boar trampled fences that had hemmed in a spinach field. 
Samples taken from a wild pig, as well as from stream water and cattle on the ranch, have tested positive for the same strain of E. coli implicated in the outbreak, Reilly said. 
Still, investigators continue to look at three other ranches in the areas in see king the source of the contaminated fresh spinach. 
"We are not saying this is the source at this point," Reilly said of the ranch. 
The outbreak sickened 204 people in 26 states and one Canadian province, he said. 
Wild pigs are one "real clear vehicle" that could explain how E. coli spread 
from cattle on the ranch to 
the spinach field less than a 
mile away, Reilly said. The 
pigs could have tracked the 
bacteria into the field or 
spread it through their drop­
pings, he said. 

Investigators also are look­
ing at runoff, flooding, irriga­
tion water, fertilizer and 
other wildlife, including deer, 
as possible sources. 
Investigators first recovered the same strain of bacteria earlier this month from three cattle manure specimens col­lected on the ranch. On Thursday, Reilly said the strain had been isolated from six other samples collected on the ranch, including from cat­tle. 
The finds mark the first time that investigators have identified a possible source for any of the multiple E. coli outbreaks linked to the heavi­ly agricultural area. 
Reilly refused to give a location for the ranch, other than to say it's in a valley in the area of San Benito and Monterey counties. 
Investigators have taken roughly 750 samples from the four ranches. They've found generic E. coli on all four ranches -the bug is com­monly found in cattle -but turned up the particular strain involved in the out­break on only one. 
"We have no evidence to suggest people should not be eating spinach from other places -except from these four ranches," said Jack Guzewich, of the Food and Drug Administration's Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition. 
Visit our on campus location 021 LaFortune Student Center 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
NICARAGUA 



Congress bans all abortions 
Women's groups rally against new measure 
Associated Press MANAGUA-Nicaragua's Congress voted Thursday to ban all abortions, including those that could save a mother's life. If signed into law by President Enrique Bolanos, the measure would eliminate a century-old exception to Nicaragua's abor­tion ban that permits the proce­dure if three doctors certify that the woman's health is at risk. Fifty-two lawmakers voted for the measure. Nine lawmakers abstained and 29 others did not attend the legislative session. Bolanos has proposed increasing prison sentences for illegal abortions -currently around six years -to 10 to 30 years for women who have the procedure as well as those who assist them. But it was unclear whether he would sign the bill approved 
Thursday after lawmakers decided not to increase the penalties in this predominantly Roman Catholic country. 
The bill has drawn protests from women's rights groups, and the Women's Autonomous Movement has said it was pre­pared to seek an injunction to block the measure if it passed. 
Congress approved the bill despite a letter from European Union diplomats and U.N. rep­resentatives asking lawmakers to hold off on voting on the issue until after the Nov. 5 presiden­tial elections. 
U.N. official Rebeca Grynspan, who is in Nicaragua this week, told reporters, "It's very difficult that this (be determined) during an electoral period." 
Nicaragua's medical associa­tion also urged legislators to postpone the vote, saying the issue had become politicized. 
Sandinista leader Daniel Ortega, who was a supporter of abortion rights as a young revo­lutionary, has said he has become a devout Roman Catholic and now opposes abor­tion. 
Ortega's socialist government of the 1980s had a contentious relationship with the Catholic church, but Ortega recently has established warm ties with 
leading  church  figures  in  
Nicaragua.  
Congressman  Wilfredo  

Navarro, of the ruling Liberal Constitutionalist Party, said the exception to Nicaragua's ban had allowed for cases in which healthy women who did not want to have their babies had convinced doctors to say an abortion was needed for health reasons. 
Aside from Cuba, which per­mits abortions in the first 12 weeks of pregnancy, Latin America has some of the world's most restrictive anti­abortion laws. 
El Salvador and Chile also ban all types of abortions. 
Bush to issue exercise guidelines 
Officials hope advice will combat obesity 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -There's a food pyramid to help guide people's eating habits, so why not one for exercise? 
The Bush administration said Thursday it would devel­op guidelines for physical activity. 
When the guidelines are ready in late 2008, federal health officials hope they will 


Financing a new vehicle can be challenging. 
We make it easy, and we'll give you 1% Cash Back on any auto loan! 
Plus, we offer the same low rate on ne'v and used auto loans. 
Apply today! 


NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You con bonk on us to be better 
help people live healthier lifestyles, which in turn, could slow soaring health care costs. 
"Obesity is an epidemic, and chronic disease inevitably fol­lows. It has become a major quiet killer," said Mike Leavitt, the health and human services secretary. 
More than half of adults in the United States do not get enough of the kind of physical activity that actually benefits them. One-quarter are not active at all in their leisure time. Overall, more than 60 million adults are obese, Leavitt said. 
The lack of exercise con­tributes to the $2 trillion that people spend on health care in this country, Leavitt said. About three-quarters of that amount goes toward the treat­ment of chronic disease. 

Every five years. the govern­ment updates dietary guide­lines that are designed to telJ people what they should eat and how they should prepare food to keep it safe and wholesome. The food pyramid is a separate document, put out by the Agriculture Department and based on those dietary guidelines. 
Leavitt said the government has a compelling national interest in promoting healthy choices. But he made it clear that the steps he envisions are less forceful than others might consider necessary. For instance, New York City is considering strict limits on artificial trans fats in restau­rant meals. 
,. ....... ___________ ...... 







haircut 
Valid Monday-Thursday with Student ID. Must present coupon to receive discount. No double discounts. Expires 12/15/06. Coupon code: N47 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR lN CHIEF Mike Gilloon 
MANAGrNG EorTOR BusrNF.SS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGlNG EDITOR: Rama Gonumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 
Mary Kate Malone 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Shar~n Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CoNTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574)"631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4 543 sports.! @nd.edu Scm DESK (574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistanr Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike GiUoon. 
POST 0FACE INFORMATION 
The Oh.crver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday <><«p< during o:.am and vacation. perimk. A subscription to The Observc;r is Sl 00 f()r one .acadc-m.ic year; $5~ lOr'"'" ><m<>!Cf, · 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall 
Send address <:<><=iom "" 
Noue ])arne, IN 46556.()779 The Obsavet 
Pcriodial pustagc paid at N<>tte £>am., P.O. 8ox779 an<! additicrud mailing oflkes. 024 Sooth Dining Hall 
Notre Dam<, IN 465%-0779 
The Oboct-vu is a member ofthe Assucia<cd Ptts.. All coproduction righ" arc r=ved. 

Research emphasis essential 
For many high school seniors, there isn't a better choice than Notre Dame. The University boasts solid academic programs and impressive athletic teams -and it has that Catholic identity no other U.S. college is able to truly match. 
While the University may attract the nation's top undergradu­ates, it lags far -sometimes stunningly far -behind its peers in Ph.D. programs and research, Provost Thomas Burish told faculty members earlier this week. 
His frankness was unusual at a school that all too often tends to sugarcoat its problems. But if Notre Dame focuses its resources on research, it won't be a O t.The 
userver
problem. and Stanford. 
To find a solution, graduate programs should As the University prepares to tackle what look no further than residence halls on campus. Burish calls its "momentum challenge," it's
Editorial 
for life after college. If Burish is successful in his push for stronger Ph.D. programs, the University will send even more students out ready to be that powerful force for good, armed with an extra few years of Notre Dame education under their belts. 
It's going to take a lot of money. It's going to take a group effort. And it's going to take time -but as Burish was correct to emphasize, it's got to happen now. Notre Dame doesn't want to become Harvard or Stanford -something University officials are quick to articulate. Right now, however, its best graduates are doing research at Harvard 
Notre Dame undergraduates are some of the most desirable graduate school applicants in the country. Why not keep them here? 
University founder Father Edward Sorin said Notre Dame would one day be a "powerful force for good in this country." Right now, University graduates are all over the country -and the world -running companies, curing diseases and serving others. And one of the main reasons graduates are so successful is their strong undergraduate background. 
To a certain extent, undergraduate education trains students 
important to not overemphasize research to the point where it undermines undergraduate student life. Burish acknowledged that issue, and it's a danger that should always be kept in mind. 
Change can chip away at an institution's identity, or it can build upon it. The financial resources needed for this project ­which will undoubtedly be hefty -must be raised by Notre Dame, not diverted from its current programs and departments. 
If all goes according to Burish's plan, those Stanford under­graduates will someday pin their hopes on a Notre Dame Ph.D. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports OBSERVER POLL Eileen Duffy Kyle Cassily Kaitlynn Riely Chris Hine 
Are you planning to vote in the Jennifer Metz Dan Cooper upcoming midterm election? Viewpoint Scene 
A. Yl's, I will be voting
Bethany Analise Lipari 
in my local district.
Whitfield 
B. Yes, I have complt>tcd an absentt'O ballot. 
Graphics 
C. No. 
Joey King 
This poll is ba.'iPd on the rt>sponsf' of 257 voters at hl.tpJ/wvrw.ndsmr.obst>rver.coml 


QUOTE OF THE DAY fSubmit aLetter l 
''If you tell the truth. you don't have to remember anything." 
Ito tbe Editor at , 
Mark Twain author
Iwww.ndsmcobserver.com r 
I . I 
THE OBSERVER 
p

Friday, October 27, 2006 


page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Club leaders discuss global health crisis 

I am writing this letter in response to the ers of university sponsored clubs and organ­
series of guest columns calling for student izations to come to a discussion on Nov. 8, at action in response to this year's Global 10 p.m. in the Notre Dame room at the Health Crisis Academic Forum. LaFortune Student Center. Students repre­
These columns emphasized the need for senting the various organizations that were the student body to come together and act involved in previous discussions will present as one in response to the crisis. And these the ideas we have come up with so far and columnists are right. request the support and co-sponsorship 
So what do we do now? How do we act? from all organizations that attend. Any 
Recently, leadership of the Accounting interested persons are also more than wel­Association, Economics Club, the Class of come and encouraged to attend. 2007, Student Government, Student Union Again, we would like all types of clubs ­Board, Amnesty International, the whether they are an academic, cultural, Accounting Association, Notre Dame Peace service, athletic, media, residence hall, reli­Fellowship and other student organizations gious, business, special interest or govern­have been meeting in an attempt to answer ment related organization -to join us. thi5 question. We are excited about the possibility that 
We did not come with a flawless plan, but together we can make Notre Dame history we decided on a direction: to come together and unite students from all organizations to and co-sponsor a series of post-forum work for a single cause. Once unitr-d, we events and initiatives focused in five cate­can address the global health crisis and help gories. These areas are fundraising, contin­people affected by it on a scale we individu­uing education of student body, curriculum, ally might never have dared dream possible. political action and faith. We developed spe­cific goals that we would like to meet in Amanda Golbabai each concentration that are too detailed to co-president fully list in this article. Economics Club 
We now request and encourage all lead-Oct. 26 

Downtown display inappropriate 
The rare Notre Dame Student who tion is also being invoked to "raise makes it off campus today and into the awareness." The fact that the downtown South Bend might notice event is sponsored by U93 (how a racy display: thousands of bras many times is it possible to play the strung across a public square to "Buttons song" in one day?) gives attract attention for breast cancer reason to believe that something treatments and research. more than innocent intentions are 
"Bras Around the Bend" has, like the motivating factor here. many activities of its nature, a laud­For those who feel uncomfortable able goal: raising awareness to gen­or embarrassed by the sight of the erate donations for women's causes. display, you are not alone and you In no way should this objective be are not unjustified. Bras, being the diminished in principle. However, intimate sort of apparel that they the means employed by this particu­are, belong under shirts, not as dec­lar effort bring into question oration for the city plaza. whether any sense of decency should By all means, go to The Vine for be preserved in the public arena. the "Think Pink" fundraiser, buy 
The bra display operates on the pink ribbon bagels at Panera and premise of an equivocation. In one donate money to Riverbcnd Cancer context the bra is meant merely to Services. But ladies, please respect symbolize the physical genesis for yourselves and the men in you lives: the cancer. In another, and perhaps keep your extra braziers in the all-too-culturally-familiar context, underwear drawer. the bra is a provocative symbol for sex (see, e.g., Victoria's Secret ads.) Lauren Galgano 
While the former meaning might grad student be the innocent intent, it's not offcampus impossible that the latter connota-Oct. 26 
U-WIRE 

U.S. neglects students as lenders make a killing 
The indignities ofstudent life take on a certain glamour after a while -call it poverty chic. But it's not just for undergrad­
uates anymore. Staff Editorial Chances are, you'll be living that way for a University of long, long time. Florida Since 2001, tuition at Independent public universities has Florida shot up by 35 percent, Alligator more than three times the rate of inflation. Meanwhile, the aver­age family's income has fallen. So has fund­ing for Pell Grants and other forms of stu­dent aid. As college costs more and more, 
Americans are making less and less -but somehow, enrollment keeps rising. What's the catch? 
Debt, naturally. Students are borrowing like never before-in fact, we're borrow­ing more than universities and the federal government can spare. That's why private education lenders, which didn't even exist when our parents went to college, now pro­vide about 20 percent of all student loans. That's bad news. 
Banks charge higher interest than the people in Criser Hall, of course -some­times as much as 19 percent. But that's just the tip of the iceberg. Unlike nonprofit lenders, they also turn away students with bad credit. And forget about consolidating your debt after graduation -private loans aren't eligible for that. 

Unfortunately, some students can't pay for school without turning to predatory lenders for help. Politicians from both par­ties talk a good game about "valuing edu­cation" and "investing in the future"-but instead of removing the limits on federal Stafford Student Loans, for example, they sit back and watch as their constituents sell themselves into bondage. Thanks, guys. 
With congressional elections in less than two weeks, you'll be hearing about plenty of domestic issues: gay marriage, property taxes, insurance -and did we mention gay marriage? But it seems student debt isn't high on anyone's list of priorities. Keep that in mind on Nov. 8, when the lectures about poor turnout among young people start. 
This column originally appeared in the Oct. 26 edition ofthe Independent Florida Alligator, the daily publication ofthe University ofFlorida. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily of The Observer. 

Republicans straying from fiscal responsibility 
Last week I wrote an article about an artist who put an elephant in a room to make a point. This article is about that elephant. 
Midterm elections are around the cor­ner and are consum­
Shade White

ing a considerable amount of politi­
University of 

cians" attention and 
Mississippi

energy. The issues 
Daily

that have been talked 
Mississippian

about in this cam­paign are important, like the depth of the Mark Foley page scandal or the off­color comments by a Senatorial candi­date in Virginia. Ultimately though, "this too shall pass." Many topics that are discussed today are transient issues that will soon be forgotten. 
On the horizon of the next two to six years, though, lie several hurdles that will define the way America views its two chief parties. One of those hurdles, the federal deficit, looks more like an elephant. In President Bush's remaining time in office and during the next President's first term, leaders, future leaders and the American electorate must define their beliefs on this impor­tant topic. 
Conventional wisdom, since the big government era of Roosevelt's New Deal, has been Democrats like big gov­ernment and Republicans prefer small government. If the last two presidencies are any indication of the current status of the two parties' manifestos, conven­tional wisdom has been thrown out the door. Democratic President Clinton boldly declared, "The era of big govern­ment is over." For eight years it appeared his analysis was correct. A Republican Congress and a moderate Democrat seemed to come to a common ground founded on the belief that a low deficit could help America be more competitive abroad and more produc­tive at home. 
That belief was accurate. Lower deficits meant America did not have to rely on foreign governments, such as China and Japan, to buy treasury bonds to finance its debt. It meant the children of America had a more secure future. It meant our dollar was strong; therefore, America's citizenry could travel abroad easily and experience the world. It • meant interest rates were low; people felt free to spend and invest their money. It meant mortgage rates were low; people could buy their own home. When citizens purchase freely they buy rugs, furniture, televisions, stereos, refrigerators and any other accou­trements that accompany a home. The 

door of owning one's own home was 
opened to a new portion of Americans. 
Greater access to success fulfilled John Locke's notion that one is intrinsi­cally tied to one's democracy and is interested in its prosperity when one owns property. The middle class grew and America's economy was strong. By the end of the Clinton administration, America had seen three consecutive budget surpluses and experienced the longest sustained growth in American history. The biggest issue of the 2000 campaign season was how to spend the $237 billion available in extra revenue. In the words of a friend of mine, "it appears the tables have rolled." Under a Republican President and Congress, America's youth must confront the real­ity that our country is buried under $8.5 trillion in debt. Fiscal year 2006 saw a budget deficit of $247.7 billion, and the Republican President called it a victory. A victory? 
As a Republican I would not argue that the Democratic Party now stands for fiscal conservatism and the Republican Party for increased spend­ing. The reality is neither party is will­ing to accept what works-fiscal con­servatism. The notion of "bringing home the pork" by spending grand amounts of money on a politician's constituency is too enticing. Democratic leaders have forgotten their lessons learned during the Clinton years and Republican lead­ers have forgotten their values that pro­pelled them to success in 1994. 
I am angry that my party has aban­doned one of its most important beliefs. I am angry that a Republican president will not express distress or veto budgets that endanger my future. Over the next six years the burden of proof lies with Republican leaders. Will we see a return to fiscally responsible govern­ment? If so, they must lead the way as they did in winning the Congress in 1994. If not, the party that currently dominates Ameriean government (rep­resented, ironically, by the symbol of the elephant) will lose its idealism and a large part of its following. 
I am angry that this elephant of fiscal irresponsibility is in the room. 
This column originally appeared in the Oct. 26 edition ofthe Daily Mississippian, the daily publication at the University ofMississippi. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
TI-fE OBSERVER 


page 12 Friday, October 27, 2006 Friday, October 
HOLLYWOOD'S "&EST SC./t~Y MOVJ 
STORIES BY B RIA N DOXT/\DER AN 
THE SLASHER MOVIE 
Halloween (1978, John Carpenter) ..-. __ .,_ The film that unleashed the William Shatner­-'""""'W"'" masked Mike Myers on the world and launched a 
spawn of imitators, "Halloween" remains the origi­
~al and the best in the genre. Myers stalks his prey, especially Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis), over the course of a brief, scary 93 minutes. Though the countless followers and its own less­than-stellar sequels have diluted its impact, 
...........,.,... "remains an indispensable classic. Memorable moment: When Mike Myers attacks ~Laurie when she's in the closet. 
Friday the 13th (1980, Sean S. Cunningham) 
"Friday the 13th" was something of a follow-up to "Halloween," and its financial success firmly established the teen slasher genre as a film phe­~omenon. A psychotic killer hunts teenagers at · --summer camp, with all the right cliches in all the right places. Cunningham's direction is tense and 
~aut, though anyone looking for Jason Voorhees needs to wait on the sequels-he's nowhere to b~ found in the original, a bit of trivia that's often for­gotten. 
Memorable moment: An axe-in-the-face murder. 
Scream (1996, Wes Craven) More of an homage (or even parody) than a legit­imate horror film, "Scream" has achieved classic 
-.......... s for its playful deflation of horror movie norm~. Wes Craven, one of the founding fathers of the slasher film, completely revolutionized the hor­
genre for contemporary teenagers. Surprisingly, "Scream" is a scary and fun picture that collects horror movie cliches and celebrates them. A game cast, led by Neve Campbell and 
"!:... .,.?keet Ulrich, makes "Scream" as effective as a ......,.......real" slasher film, though "Scream" is clearly a much better made movie. 
~ Memorable moment: Drew Barrymore's brief appearance at the opening of the film -"Do you like scary movies?" 
The Texas Chainsaw Massacre (1974, Tobe """""""'.,....-lfioooer) A cult classic upon its original release, "The 
~Texas Chainsaw Massacre" helped revolutionize the horror genre. A low-budget film made in a documentary style, it follows a group ofteens who stumble into the lair of Leatherface, a chainsaw -...-'Wl~alaJmg: psychopath. Its stark, realistic style and 1 • ~.,. sudden violence was divisive in 1974, but the influ­' ~ . · ential "Chainsaw Massacre" continues to resonate .._.. ~th audiences, precisely because the film is so vis­
ceral and disturbing. 
', ,~IJI:'f~ 
\ 
\ 
.
\ 

Memorable moment: The first appearance of Leatherface, one ofthe screen's greatest villains. 
A Nightmare On Elm Street (1984, Wes Craven) 
Created after the success of both "Halloween" and "Friday the 13th," "A Nightmare on Elm Street" quickly developed into one of the most suc­cessful horror franchises, spawning not only numerous sequels but a television show as well. Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) is the star of the show as the child molester who was burned to death by the parent~ of the children he attacked. He comes back to the nightmares of those related to his killers, vowing to kill them in their sleep. 
Unlike the slashers who came before him, Freddy is scary and funny at the same time, having plenty of actual dialogue and banter with the other characters. His burned and mutilated face and long knives where fmgers should be create one of the perennial images of horror. Also noteworthy is a young Johnny Depp starring in his first feature film. 
Memorable moment: "One, two, Freddy's coming for you. Three, four, better lock your door. Five, six, grab your crucifiX. Seven, eight, gonna stay up late. Nine, ten, never sleep again." 

THE SUPERNATURAL MOVIE 
Rosemary's Baby (1968, Roman Polanski) 
A disturbing and affecting examination of late 1960s paranoia, "Rosemary's Baby" was adapted by Ira Levin's bestseller: The story of-the pregnant Rosemary Woodhouse (Mia FarroW) and her actor husband Guy (John Cassavetes), "Rosemary's Baby" is a film about the occult, as Rosemary begins to learn the satanic truth about her titular child-to-be. 
Memorable moment: Rosemary's disturbing, hal­lucinogenic dream sequence. 
The Exorcist (1973 William Friedkin) 
Easily one of the most famous horror films of all time, William Friedkin's 1973 classic about priest Father Karras (Jason Miller) and his run-in with a demon possessing the child Regan (Linda Blair). Featuring some fantastic performances by Ellen Burstyn as Regan's mother and Max Van Sydow as the exorcist, Father Merrin. "The Exorcist" is still a shocking and scary film, despite being over 30 years old. 
Memorable moment: "The power of Olrist com­pels you!" 
Carrie (1976, Brian DePalma) 
Based on Stephen King's first novel, "Carrie" fol­lows the eponymous character (Sissy Spacek), a shy and repressed teen whose supernatural pow­ers come to vengeful fruition during the iconic high school prom. As much a film critiquing the social class system as it is about the scares themselves, "Carrie" remains equally effective for its portrayal of high school politics and religious guilt. Also noteworthy is a young and poorly-acting John Travolta. 
Memorable moment: The epic shower of pig's blood during the prom's fa.t.eful final moments. 
Jr 
The Shining (1980, Stanley Kubrick) 
Kubrick's classic, based on the Stephen King novel of the same name, i~ about the haunted (and fictional) Overlook Hotel itt Colorado and its effects on writer Jack Torrance (Jack Nicholson). With its bravura performance bvl Nicholson and creative and creepy use of the camera. "The Shining" is superior cLnema, as well at"a superior horror film. 
Memorable moment: "fltre's Johnny!" 
THE MONSTER MoVIE 
·~·.. 
Alien (1979, Ridley Scott 
Claustrophobic and atJttospheric, "Alien" ush­ered in a new era of outfspace horror. Profiling the last voyage of the staJillip · Nostromo, "Alien" fol!ows Ellen Ripley (Sigcfurney Weaver) and the crew of the Nostromo as they try to stop the alien (frighteningly and memorably designed by H.R. Giger) that has invaded t®ir ship. Followed by an equally classic sequel. {directed by James Cameron), "Alien" remains a gold standard of monster horror to this da~;~ 
Memorable moment: thfliterally chest-bursting appearance of the alien. ~;,,­
Jaws (1975, Steven Spielberg) 
"Jaws" was more than a movie, it was a cultural phenomenon. Enhanced,by John Williams' leg­endary score, it follows police chief Brody (Roy Schneider) of the idyllic.ltnity Island, as he hunts down a shark terrorizil~ the beaches. Though filled with its share of seafr moments, "Jaws" cuts to the center of the horror ·genre by concentrating on character, specifically the three terrified men on a small boat. 
Memorable moment: t~e point-of-view shots of the shark, bolstered by Williams' pounding score. 
Night of the Living llead (1968, George A. Romero) 
A landmark picture and the defining zombie film, "Night of the Living Dead" remains one ofthe longest-lastfug and most successful horror fran­chises of all time. The movie opens with Barbara (Judith O'Dea) and her br1theralmost immediately attacked by a horde of cannibalistic zombies. Narrowly escaping, sh~ meets Ben (Duane Jones), the hero of the film. The Ilum&n side of this film is an interesting an~ accurate character study con­cerning what happens to.jleople whose very lives are threatened. •·••··... · 
The horror and gore than a ··tl····,:~lttfn" realistically deJJic1too··s cannibalism. tainly effective, for today's vemaste norl"(E techniques aro UlilOV~atnr~.JlUld 
the film s.bllSic..~ICeJ:•ts enough to . protagonists. 
Meworable moment: Ben's fate. 



THE OBSERVER 

E

~27,2006 

page 13 

-
• 


IES FROM -,\ TO Z 
D ERIN MCGINN 
The Evil Dead Trilogy {1983 -1992, Sam Raimi) 
The frrst "Evil Dead" movie was a low-budget 
cult classic about five teens who accidentally 
unlock an evil spirit deep in the woods. By "Army 
of Darkness," the third film in the series, it had 
become a joking, stylish homage to, and parody of, 
the classic zombie movie. "Evil Dead" was effective 
because of its simplicity -Raimi depends on the 
camera and the paranoia of the atmosphere, 
which drove the series throughout its three-film 
run. 
Memorable moment: the flying eyeball in "Evil 
Dead 2." 
THE CLASSIC MOVIE 
Psycho (1960, Alfred Hitchcock) 
Among Hitchcock's most famous film, "Psycho" is responsible for one of Hitchcock's most famous creations, Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins) of the Bates Motel. "Psycho" set new standards in horror, as it pushed the boundaries of what was accept­able in 1960. With its Oedipal overtones and Perkins' genuinely scary portrayal, "Psycho" remains the gold standard in modern psychologi­cal horror. 
Memorable moment: the shower scene, perhaps the most famous sequence in Hitchcock's storied career. 
Nosferatu (1922, F.W. Murnau) When "Dracula" was frrst put on sale for movie right'i, one of the first men to pursue the text was 
F.W. Murnau. Although he failed to get the rights, Murnau had already started production on the film. To get around the rights issue, they cut out the name Dracula and replaced it with Count Orlok, or Nosferatu (the vampire). What separates "Nosferatu" from others of its time is that most of the film was shot on location in Eastern Europe ­the production hardly used any studio set.:;. It is dif­ficult to find any surviving original copies because when the film was released, Florence Stoker (widow of Bram} pursued the rights case relent­lessly and in July 1925 a German court ordered all prinl'i of the film to be destroyed. 
Memorable moment: Nosferatu's first appear­ance on screen. 
Frankenstein (1931, James Whale) 
An obsessed scientist creates a living being from parts of exhumed corpses. No longer so much a movie as it is a genuine part of popular folklore, the film itself shows its age, particularly in the absence of a musical score. But the performances by Colin Clive and particularly the great Boris Karloff as the Monster are the whole show here, forgiving a multitude of creaks and groans and more than compensating for any' lulls in the narra­tive. 
Memorable moment: When Dr. Frankenstein yells, "It's alive!" 
Dracula (1931, Todd Browning) 
Before Bela Lugosi wa-; relegated to starring in role. While this version of "Dracula" is far being the most definitive version of Stoker famous novel, it is quite possibly the most memo­rable one -due in large part to the presence Bela Lugosi. Born in what is now Romania, Lugosi brings to the character the flavor of his homeland, making him more believable than any of his prede­cessors. His performance alone is reason to watch this monster movie classic. 
Memorable moment: Lugosi's deliverance of u•v _ infamous line, "I am Dracula." 
THE HALLOWEEN-ORIENTED .....,.... 
The Nightmare Before Christmas (1993, Henry Selick) 
Thi-; Tim Burton-written classic tells the story Jack Skellington (Chris Sarandon, Danny Elfman), the pumpkin king of Halloween Town who is bored with doing the same thing each year for Halloween. One day he stumbles into Town, and is so taken with the idea of Christmas that he tries to get the resident bats, ghouls and goblins of Halloween Town to help him put n.~._._...,. Christmas instead of Halloween. In typical Tim Burton fashion, they just can't seem to get it right, putting their own creepy spin on the beloved holi­day. 
Memorable moment: Jack discovering Christmas · for the first tin1e. 
I 
J 
1 



,/,
~ 
,.., .. '
'./'r~ 

Friday, October 27, 2006 
page 14 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 
Sloppy defense allows Cardinals to slip by Tigers 5-4 

St. Louis pulls within zvin of championship 
Associated Press 

ST. LOUIS -With some help from a soggy field and two big hits by little David Eckstein, the St. Louis Cardinals took control of the World Series with a wild comeback win. 
Eckstein's tiebreaking double glanced off the glove of a diving Craig Monroe in left field in the eighth inning, and the Cardinals capitalized on Detroit's sloppy defense for a S-4 victory Thursday night in Game 4. 
"lie's the toughest guy I've ever seen in a uniform," St. Louis manager Tony La Russa said, praising his scrappy short­stop. 
After Curtis Granderson slipped in center field on a key play trying for an earlier ball hit by Eckstein, rekindling memo­ries of Curt Flood in the 1968 Series between these teams, St. Louis took a 3-1 lead to move within one win of its first cham­pionship in 24 years. 
Jeff Weaver can wrap it up Friday night at Busch Stadium when he pitches against rookie Justin Verlander. Each lost his first start in this Series. 
"The fans here are unbeliev­able. They come out every single night supporting us and it would be a real honor to do something for them," Eckstein said. 
One word of caution, Cardinals rooters: St. Louis had a 3-1 lead in '68, too, before Detroit rallied to win behind lefty Mickey Lolich. 
The decisive hit that time came when Flood, a Gold Glove center fielder, slipped on Jim Northrup's two-out, two-run triple off Cardinals ace Bob Gibson to break a scoreless tie in the seventh inning of Game 7 ­right across the street, where the old Busch Stadium stood. 
This time, the 5-foot-7 Eckstein hit three doubles and a single as St. Louis overcame an early 3-0 deficit to close in on its 1Oth World Series title. The last team to squander a 3-1 Series lead, however, was the 1985 Cardinals against Kansas City. 
After a rainout Wednesday night, only the second World Series washout in 20 years, showers were expected again Thursday. But the heavy stuff stayed away on a 53-degree night and much of the back-and­forth game was played in a light mist that obscured the Gateway Arch beyond center field. 
The mist got heavier in the sixth, however, and the Tigers began to struggle with the ele­ments. 
With St. Louis trailing 3-2 in the seventh, Eckstein hit a drive to right-center that Granderson appeared to have in his sights before he slipped to the slick turf, kicking up a huge divot. The ball fell for an easy double. 
"If I had stayed up, I catch it easily," Granderson said. "It wasn't too much of a cut. As soon as I planted, it went under­neath me., 
"It wasn't just wet," he added. "It was wet and soft." 
Pinch-hitter So Taguchi dropped down a sacrifice bunt, and reliever Fernando Rodney rushed an off-balance throw over the head of Placido Polanco covering at first base, allowing Eckstein to score the tying run. 
It was the fourth error by a Tigers pitcher in four games, a record for one pitching staff in the World Series. 
"Obviously, it was a little bit of a freak inning," Detroit manager Jim Leyland said. "It's not our best fielding in the world, but that's baseball." 
After an intentional walk to Albert Pujols and two strikeouts, Preston Wilson singled to left against Rodney to give St. Louis a 4-3 lead. 
But Ivan Rodriguez opened the eighth with a double and Brandon Inge tied it with a dou­ble off rookie closer Adam Wainwright, who avoided fur­ther damage by striking out pinch-hitter Alexis Gomez and Granderson. 

That set the stage for St. Louis' final rally. Yadier Molina drew a leadoff walk from Joel Zumaya before Aaron Miles beat out a potential double-play ball. 
Miles moved up when strike three to Juan Encarnacion got past Rodriguez for a wild pitch, and Eckstein hit a drive to left­center. 
Monroe sprinted to his left and laid out with a desperate dive, but the ball ticked ofl' the tip of his glove. The left fielder lay prone on the grass as Miles scored the go-ahead run. 
"Facing Zumaya, you want to make sure you don't try to over­swing," Eckstein said. "I got a fastball and was able to get on top just enough, just barely out of the reach of Craig Monroe, who almost made one heck of a catch." 
Wainwright set down Detroit in order in the ninth to the delight of the red-clad crowd. 
With NL championship series MVP Jeff Suppan on the mound for St. Louis, one sign read: Cold Night. Hot Supp. 
Suppan allowed three runs in six innings. 
The right-hander, sporting his full, dark beard, was quite a contrast to the boyish-looking Jeremy Bonderman, who made his Series debut for Detroit only two days shy of his 24th birth­day. 
Making his first start in 12 days, Bonderman was staked to a three-run lead and was visibly steamed when he was pulled after 5 1-3 innings with the score 3-2. He slammed his glove and hat on the bench, knocking over a full cup, and kicked the ground. 

But Rodney preserved the lead -for one inning, at least ­when he struck out Miles and pinch-hitter .John Rodriguez with runners at the corners. 
Hodney whiffed Rodriguez with a 97 mph fastball as catch­er Ivan Rodriguez popped out of his crouch and pumped his fist. 
In the second, Sean Casey golfed a 1-0 pitch into the Cardinals' bullpen in right field for his first career postseason home run. It also was the first homer off Suppan this postsea­son. Rodriguez then grounded a single to right, ending an 0-for­23 slump since Game 1 of the ALCS. 
Granderson doubled to start the third, his first hit in 15 World Series at-bats, and scored on Casey's two-out single. Rodriguez followed with an RBI single, making it 3-0. 
But La Russa stayed aggres­sive, calling for a hit-and-run with Suppan batting in the third. Suppan swung through a strike, but Miles stole second against Hodriguez, an 11-time Gold Glove winner who led major league catchers by throwing out 46 percent of attempted bases­tealers this season. 
AP 

Tigers reliever Joel Zumaya watches Eckstein's go-ahead dou­ble in the eighth inning of Game 4. 
The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FoR SALE 
3-4 bdrm home, 1.5 BA. 2 mi. N of ND. 2-stall garage. 4 !ots. $101,000. 52420 Forestbrook. Call Terry 574-289-5630 or Ron 277­4122. 
FoR RENT 
HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2·6 Bedrooms www.N Dstudentrentals.com 
BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam­pus homes & weekend rentals. Bluegoldrentals.com 
Weekend rental: 3 BR Home, walk to stadium, Terrace Ln. 269-930­8038. swmient@qtm.net 
45 minutes from Notre Dame Stadium. $125.00/night. Year round cabins sleep six. Call Lumberjack Resort 269-646-2181. 
2 rooms in private home w/separate entrance for football weekends. Shared bath. Close to ND. 574-259·8603. 
ROOMSFORRENT~rND 
games, etc. Visit gardenviewbedandbreakfast.com or call 574-243-0392. Special rates available. 
House Available for 07-08 Year. Close to Campus. Just Renovated to Brand New Condition. Open to groups of 9-11 Students. Contact MacSwain@gmail.com 
Home for Football weekends. 3 BR,Full Bsement, Walking distance to ND. 631-766-7637. 

7 bedroom furnished house avail· able now. Perfect for FOOTBALL weekends/reunions. 269-369·1 003. Photos available. 
Furnished home for responsible family. Walk to ND. Dec.-May. Cell561·596-0194. 
Charming 4-bdrm 2 bath home cur­rently rented to SMC students. Available 07-08 or 08-09. $385/ea + utilities. Updated & as cute as can be! Safe area. John 574-274-5692. 
TICKETS 
WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251­1570 
FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232­0964 
WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726. 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK· ETS. BEST PRICES. 574·232­2378. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. I f you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi­weekly ad in The Observer. 
Hey Thomson, why isn't there a "p" in your last name like every other person named Thompson. 

NHL 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pts. GF Pittsburgh 5·3·0 10 25 New Jersey 4·4·1 9 25 NY Islanders 3·3·2 8 22 NY Rangers 4·5·0 8 32 Philadelphia 1·6·1 3 15 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division team record pts. GF Buffalo 9-0-0 18 46 
Toronto 4-3-3 11 33 
Montreal 4·2·2 10 27 
Ottawa 4·4-0 8 25 
Boston 2-4·1 5 15 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pts. GF 
Atlanta 7·1·2 16 38 Florida 5·5-1 11 33 Carolina 4-4-2 10 33 Washington 3·2·3 9 29 Tampa Bay 4-4-0 8 
Western Conference, Central Division 
team record pts. GF 
Nashville 4-3·1 9 28 Detroit 4·4·1 9 22 St. Louis 3-3·2 8 20 Chicago 4-5·0 8 32 Columbus 2-4·1 5 17 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pts. GF Minnesota 8·1·0 16 29 Vancouver 6·4·1 13 29 Edmonton 6·3·0 12 27 Colorado 4·4·2 10 33 Calgary 3·4·1 7 21 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pts. GF 
Dallas 8-1-0 16 29 Anaheim 7-0·2 16 30 San Jose 7·3-0 14 33 Los Angeles 3·6·2 8 23 Phoenlt 2·8·0 4 19 
USA Today 1American Hockey Magazine Top 15 
team record points 

1 Maine (31) 5·0 507 
2 Wisconsin (3l 3·1·2 461 
3 Minnesota 4·1 430 
4 Boston University 2·D-1 397 
5 Boston College 2·1 340 
6 Michigan 3·1 331 
7 Miami Ohio 4·2 293 
8 New Hampshire 2·0 267 
9 North Dakota 3·3 234 
10 Michigan State 1·1 220 
11 NOTRE DAME 3·1 136 
12 Harvard o-o 123 
13 Denver 3·3 85 
14 Clarkson 4·1·1 79 
15 Cornell 0·0 63 

around the dial 
TODAY MLB 
Tigers at Cardinals 8 p.m., FOX NCAA FOOTBALL 

Texas-EI Paso at Tulsa 8 p.m., ESPN 2 
Saturday 
NOTRE DAME at Navy noon, CBS 







OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Friday, October 27, 2006 CoA,tPILED FROM. THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 15 
SOCCER 

-

Associated Press Former German nation­al team coach Juergen Klinsmann is engaged in informal talks with the 
U.S. Soccer Federation that could lead to him taking over as coach of the American national team. 
Klinsmann, who coached his native Germany to a surprising berth in the World Cup semifinals this summer, told The Associated Press in a telephone interview Thursday that he's been speaking with USSF pres­ident Sunil Gulati. 
"We've had a couple of conversations. I'm evalu­ating everything that comes up," Klinsmann said. "I'll stay in touch with Sunil and see what it leads to. It's a very casual and relaxed correspon­dence." 

Klinsmann resigned as Germany's coach three days after the tourna­ment, saying he wanted to spend more time with his family. He lives in suburban Los Angeles with his American-born wife and is regarded by many as the favorite to replace Bruce Arena, who was told by Gulati in mid-July that his contract would not be renewed. 
"Sooner or later, I have to get back into coach­ing," Klinsmann said. 
Gulati, who has refused to comment on his talks with any potential replacement, repeated Thursday that he hopes to have a new coach in place by the ·end of the year. 
Klinsmann is a close friend of Arena's and attended some U.S. team practices when the play­ers worked out in California. He said there isn't any timetable on his talks with Gulati. 
"Obviously, those are discussions that will con­tinue, and we'll see where they lead," he said. 
In announcing Arena's departure, Gulati said his successor should have "some knowledge of American soccer, experi­ence, leadership, a track record of success." 
"Does Juergen Klinsmann have those qualities? He probably does," Gulati said then. "He's had success with the German team; he has a much better handle on American soccer scene than someone who hasn't spent time here; he's inquisitive. He's an intel­ligent guy, multilingual with a lot of very positive qualities." 
IN BRIEF 
Cowboys assistant to sue McDonalds over dead rat DALLAS -Dallas Cowboys assis­tant coach Todd Haley is suing a sub­urban McDonald's, claiming his wife and the family's live in baby sitter found a dead rat in their salad. The lawsuit filed Thursday in state district court seeks $1.7 million in damages, The Dallas Morning News reported on its Web site. In addition to Haley, the Cowboys' passing game coordinator who got in a well-publicized shouting match with Terrell Owens earlier this month, the suit was also filed on behalf of his wife Christine and the family's au pair, Kathryn Kelley. A message left for McDonald's Corp. spokesman Walt Riker on Thursday evening was not immedi­ately returned According to the lawsuit, Christine Haley and Kelley had eaten part of the salad purchased June 5 at a McDonald's in Southlake before the 

dead rodent was uncovered. 
Sheffield upset over Yanks decision to exercise option 
NEW YORK -Gary Sheffield is angry that the New York Yankees plan to exercise his $13 million option for next season rather than allow him to become a free agent. 
While the Yankees have until Nov. 5 to decide on the option, Sheffield told USA Today that he has been told it will be exercised. 
"This will not work, this will not work at all," he was quoted as saying in Thursday editions. "I don't want to play first base a year for them. I will not do that." 
If the Yankees exercise the option, included as part of the three-year contract Sheffield negotiated before the 2004 season, they likely would trade him. By exercising the option, they can prevent him from winding up with the Boston Red Sox. 
Sheffield was New York's right 
fielder before he was sidelined from May 29 to Sept. 22 with an injured left wrist that required surgery. When he returned, he played first base for the first time in his major league career. 
Miami receiver to receive felony charge for altercation CORAL GABLES-Miami receiv­er Ryan Moore is expected to face a felony charge for his role in an August altercation with two women, and will not accompany the Hurricanes to Georgia Tech for their game Saturday. The felony charge is not why Moore isn't traveling to Atlanta on Friday, Miami coach Larry Coker said. "I probably know a lot more about it than you do right now and I won't go into that," Coker said. "But I will say that he will not travel." 
Friday, October 27, 2006

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
NHL 

Fans trash Garden as Boston loses to Montreal 
duct.

Hedberg's 29 saves 
"As you saw, the refs screwed 
lead Flyers to win up the whole game, and then they tried to fix it at the end. I wish. if they were going to
Associated Press 

decide to have a bad game, 
BOSTON -The Boston they would be bad for both Bruins didn't even make it to teams," said Kovalev, who com­the final buzzer against the plained that opponents have Montreal Canadiens on tried to take out his knees in Thursday night. three straight games. "I have to 
Andrei Markov scored the ... protect myself." tiebreaking goal with 1.2 sec­While he was out, Craig Rivet
-'· ....... 
onds left Thursday night, giving picked up a double minor for Montreal a 3-2 victory over hooking and slamming his Boston and prompting a shower stick. The Bruins used the two­of garbage from the Bruins fans man advantage to tie it up on that convinced the officials to Chara's slap shot withil-91 sec­
call the game with two ticks onds left in the second. left. 
"When you see the b.ottles Flyers 3, Thrashers 2 with liquid being thrown from Peter Forsberg and Simon 20 rows up, you worry about Gagne each scored in a your head or face being hurt. shootout, lifting Philadelphia to The referees did the right thing a win over the Atlanta to end the game," Montreal Thrashers on Thursday night, captain Saku Koivu said. "It making Flyers coach John was a huge win. It Stevens a winner feels a lot bigger in his NHL coach­when you steal it "When you see the ing debut. in the last few After Johan
bottles with liquid
seconds." Hedberg had 29
being thrown from
Markov took saves in regula­advantage of a 20 rows up, you tion and overtime period with slapshot that and blocker. opening period. power play that worry about your for the Thrashers, stunned Niittymaki. The Sabres have quickly Jaroslav Spacek and came when Matt he was pulled for Playing at home may have become the flashiest offensive Afinogenov worked a two-man
head or face being
Lashoff, who was Kari Lehtonen. been a spark for the Flyers. team in the NHL, posting 49 game on the right side of the
hurt.,

making his NHL The Flyers The Flyers played six of their goals in their first 10 games. Islanders zone. Spacek then debut, was called jumped all over first eight games on the road, But they used a methodical slid a crossing pass to Kotalik, for holding with the goalie change, including a 9-1 loss at Buffalo attack against the Islanders, who ripped a shot from above
Saku Koivu
45 seconds left. with Gagne and that convinced chairman Ed scoring once in each period to the left circle past Rick DiPietro 
Montreal captain 
The Montreal Forsberg scoring Snider he needed to fire back Miller's strong goaltend­that smacked the back of the defenseman got on the Flyers' first Hitchcock after three-plus sea­ing. The 26-year-old American net and caromed back out at the puck to the two shots. sons without a Stanley Cup improved to 8-0 and posted his 6:09 -4 7 seconds into left of Tim Thomas and put it Vyacheslav Kozlov, who finals appearance. third career shutout. Buffalo's 5-on-3 power play. between his legs for the winner. scored in regulation, had the Though Stevens said he Kotalik provided the only The only downside for the 
While Montreal players -only shootout goal for Atlanta expected some pregame jitters, offense Buffalo would need Sabres was they converted only and some of their vocal fans in on its first shot. No one else he appeared relaxed behind the with a power-play goal in the one of seven power plays. the Boston crowd -celebrated, could slip one past steady bench, his hands behind his others in the stands began Antero Niittymaki, who had 27 back, watching many of the 
------------·--­
• Clear Coat
throwing cups and other trash saves. same players he r.oaehed to a onto the ice. After about a This was the boost the Flyers minor-league title two seasons 
OFF 

• Premium Soft Cloth
minute, and a futile announce­desperately needed five days ago. 
Wasi7

ment from the public address after Stevens was promoted The Flyers got an early lift announcer, the clock started from first-year assistant to about 2 minutes into the game 
OUR 

• Polis;J-n·Sealer
and the buzzer blew while both coach, hoping to nudge them when Mike Knuble snagged the 
Wax Applied
teams were still at their bench­out of last place. loose puck down the right side es and the ice crew was clean­The Flyers entered with the just past the blue line and made 
• 2-Step Underbody
BEST
ing up. worst record and fewest points a nice feed to Randy Robitaille 
Protectant
"There's no fun way to lose," in the NHL, a shaky start that who scored for a 1-0 lead. 52694 State Road 933 Bruins coach Dave Lewis said, resulted in one of the most Atlanta came back about 5 South Beml. ln(Jiana 46637
• Spot-Free
complimenting Lashoff on his drastic shakeups in team histo­minutes later when Kovalchuk 
t· Rmse Just 2 miles north ol Notre Oame on U.S. 31
WASH
overall game in spite of the ry. Longtime general manager was left all alone and streaked costly penalty. Bob Clarke resigned and coach an easy
down center ice for ~--------------------------------J 
"He moved the puck, has Ken Hitchcock was fired breakaway goal, tying the score good vision. He thinks the Sunday with the Flyers on their at 1. game. Everybody will take first five-game losing streak penalties; he reacted," Lewis since 2002 and off to their Sabres 3, Islanders 0 said. "We've got to kill that worst start in 17 years. The Buffalo Sabres are mak­
penalty. That's what penalty­Forsberg, Gagne and ing their historic start look killers do. You bail out your Niittymaki ensured the losing easy. teammate." streak wouldn't stretch to six. Maxim Afinogenov pumped in 
Cristobal Huet stopped 34 And while 2-6-1 hardly sounds a goal and assist, Ryan Miller shots for Montreal, which has promising, the win was a stopped 29 shots, and the per­won eight of nine against its strong start to a five-game fect Sabres beat the New York longtime rival, including the homestand. Islanders Thursday night to win last six in a row. Michael Ryder Still bothered by a sprained their lOth straight game and and Chris Higgins also scored left wrist that kept him out of match the best start the NHL 
l ( for the Canadiens. one game, Forsberg delivered has ever seen. Thomas made 26 saves for when needed in an already-big Afinogenov set up Ales Boston, making a sprawling early-season game. Not only Kotalik's first-period goal and save on Mike Johnson with 3:25 that, he scored on a power play. scored one in the second. Miller left to temporarily preserve the The Flyers were a measly 4-did the rest for the Sabres, who tie. He fell to 1-6 against for-55 on the power play this tied the 1993-94 Toronto Maple
I 
ELlA'S 
( Montreal in his career. season. 0-for-15 the last three Leafs -the only other NHI. Zdeno Chara scored his first games, and squandered their team to jump out 10-0. M~ditemmean Cuisin~
>I goal since joining the Bruins in only other opportunity against
( The Sabres can break the 
b---~~~~~-----------­
( I the offseason as one of the top Atlanta. With Andy Sutton still record at home against Atlanta 
Open: Tues.-Sat. llam-2pm & 4pm-9pm 
! 
prizes on the free agent mar­in the box from a second period on Saturday. Buffalo, which fell ket. Phil Kessel scored and Glen holding penalty, Forsberg· one win shy of the Stanley Cup 
(Sun. andMon. closed) 
Murray and Patrice Bergeron knocked the puck off Hedberg's finals last season, has a team­
Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering 
( had two assists apiece for pads from close range only 56 record 15 consecutive regular­
------------tt:&~·------­
t ( Boston. seconds into the third for a 2-1 season victories. 
We otTer: Shish Kebab, Shlsh Tawouk, 
The Canadiens lost forward lead. By the time Jason Pominville
~ 
Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, 
I Alex Kovalev in the second Forsberg raised his stick in stretched the lead to 3-0 early
I 
( period when he whacked his celebration and finally got a in the third period, the sparse 
Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, 
( 
I stick across the glass after rise of a surprisingly smaller crowd of 8,861 at Nassau 
Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... 
I I drawing a penalty for jostling crowd than the traditionally Coliseum had already grown I with Boston defenseman Milan packed arena the Flyers are 
Our address: 115 Dixie Way North ( Jurcina. Kovalev was given two used to. Boos and groans were easily 
I frustrated with the home team. 
(574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 
( minutes for unsportsmanlike Vyacheslav Kozlov, though, heard, as were the many saves 
We are located in Roseland area, near Pendle Road on 3 I 
( I conduct and a game miscon-tied it 2-all midway through the that thumped off Miller's pads ( ( 
( 
I 
( ( ( 



Friday, October 27, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Virginia Tech handles Clemson 
Branden Ore rushes for 203 yards to lead Hokies over Tigers 
Associated Press 
BLACKSBURG -Branden Ore shredded Clemson for 203 yards rushing yards and two touchdowns and Virginia Tech held the No. 10 Tigers to 76 yards in the last three quar­ters in the Hokies' 24-7 victory Thursday night. 
Virginia Tech (6-2, 3-2 Atlantic Coast Conference}, beaten soundly in its last two ACC games by Georgia Tech and Boston College, showed the Tigers what it felt like. 
Clemson (7 -2, 4-2} had just three first downs in the last three quarters, and the third one came in the final minute, not long before the final gun sounded and Hokies fans streamed onto the field, sur­rounding the team and cele­brating around midfield. 
Ore carried a career-high 37 times for his second consecu­tive 200-yard performance. He had 207 five days earlier in a rout. of Southern Mississippi, and this time upstaged the Tigers' vaunted two-back tan­dem of James Davis and C.J. Spiller. They came into the 
game averaging 185 yards 
between them, but finished 
with just 71 yards on 22 tries. 
The Hokies, leading 10-7 at 
halftime, padded their lead 
early in the third quarter after 
Xavier Adibi intercepted Will 
Proctor's pass at the Clemson 
35. Ore did the rest, carrying on five consecutive plays, the last an 11-yard, second-effort run for the TO. 
Later in the period, he essentially put the game away, breaking off a 21-yard run to get the ball inside the Clemson 5, then carrying two more times to get it to 24-7. Sam Wheeler also had a big play in the drive, a 41-yard reception from Sean Glennon. 
Glennon came in expecting to yield to Ike Whitaker at times to boost the running game, but it never happened. Glennon finished 9-for-15 for 108 yards and ran for a TD. 
The Hokies dominated the second quarter on defense and led 10-7 at halftime. 
Clemson ran just 12 plays _ for 21 yards _ in the quarter as Virginia Tech kept the ball for nearly 10 minutes. 
Brandon Pace's 37-yard field 
goal with 11:36 left in the half 
made it 10-7 and was his 14th 
consecutive successful field 
goal. 

Clemson was in great posi­
tion to at least tie it when C.J. 
Gaddis stripped the ball from 
a scrambling Glennon and 
Gaines Adams recovered for 
the Tigers on the Tech 25. 
Three plays later, however, Proctor never got the handle on the third-and-9 snap and Hokies defensive end Barry Booker jumped on the loose ball to end the threat. 
The teams were like mirror images in the first quarter. 
Both started with three-and­outs, and then the Tigers drove 77 yards in 11 plays to Davis' 17th rushing touch­down of the season, a 6-yard burst around the left side. 
The Hokies countered by driving 84 yards in 12 plays, highlighted by Glennon's 2­yard sneak on fourth-and-1 from the Hokies 36, and Ore's 40-yard burst through the right side to the 6-inch line. Two plays later, Glennon dove it in. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Squad to face off 
-
against Adrian 
Belles play Bulldogs in final MIAA match 
By SARAH LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will have the opportunity to knock off MIAA No. 3 Adrian College at home Saturday in the final game of the regular season. 
Coming off a big win against MIAA foe Tri-State Tuesday, the Belles (16-8, 9-6 MIAA) will play their fmal match before the MIAA tournament. Adrian holds a 16-8 overall record and 11-4 mark in the conference ­
Saint Mary's 16-8 record overall is tied with Adrian's, but SMC is now fifth in the MIAA. 
Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said that she believes in her team, but she knows the Belles will encounter problems if they don't improve their fundamentals. 
"We will be working on our net game a lot these next two days ­blocking, attacking, as well as coverage," she said. "Adrian has 
a very strong offense. We need to 
be ready to stop them at the net. 
"Our floor defense has been strong all season so, of course, we need to maintain that as one of our strengths. Our front line is going to have really rise to the challenge." 
Schroeder-Biek will be looking to her seniors to lead their team to a fmal regular season victory. 
"Our seniors have done a nice job on the court all year," she said. "They have also been great leaders both on and off the court." 
The Belles coach is very happy with how the season played, and is proud ofher team. 
"We have had a nice balance of players this season," she said. "If one player is having a rough game, someone else picks it up. That ha'j been a huge reason for our success this year. 
"We are not dependent on one player to carry the team." 
The Belles host Adrian at 11 a.m. 
Contact Sarah Leonard at sleonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Broncos defense to take on high-octane Colts offense 
Manning and undefeated Indianapolis travel to Mile-High City to face league's stingiest defense in key AFC matchup 
DENVER -A blizzard cov­ered the Mile High City during the week, so maybe it's not too early in the NFL season to start talking about really significant games. 
And Indianapolis at Denver is about as colossal as an October game can get. 
"I love a game like this because it doesn't get any big­ger," Broncos wide receiver Javon Walker said. "It reminds me of back in college with Florida State getting ready for Florida or Miami. It's a big game. It's going to be magni­fied. People are talking about it." 
Despite some flaws on one 
side or the other, the Colts (6-0) and Broncos (5-1) are so good 
at  what  they  do  well  that  
they're  harkening  to  the  
league's  formative  days  of  

leather helmets and two-way players. 
The Colts can become the first team to start 7-0 in consecutive seasons since the 1929-31 Green Bay Packers, who did it three straight years. No one else has done it twice. 
The Broncos have already made history, becoming the stingiest team to start a season since the 1934 Detroit Lions shut out their first seven oppo­nents. 
Denver has allowed just two oh-by-the-way touchdowns this season, both coming in the fourth quarter after they had built 17-0 leC~ds on New England and Cleveland. They've held their last five opponents to single digits, a franchise best. 
Broncos quarterback Jake Plummer, the biggest benefici­ary of Denver's stifling defense, which has taken some heat off his season-long poor play, said this one feels like a playoff game. 
"Any time you have an unde­feated team coming to your place and we're 5-1, it's a big game," Plummer said. "(Winning it) sends a statement. It doesn't mean you're going to win the Super Bowl by any means, but it just sends a state­ment to everybody that you can beat the good ones, too." 
Plummer's job got harder this week when left tackle Matt Lepsis was lost for the season with a knee injury, leaving Adam Meadows, Erik Pears or right guard Cooper Carlisle as candidates to face Colts star defensive end Dwight Freeney. 
The Colts have their own injury issues, with defensive tackle Montae Reagor (eye socket) missing his second straight game and safety Mike Doss being placed on injured reserve with a torn knee liga­ment. The Colts expect to have 
Ave Maria School of Law offers a rigorous curriculum that successfully prepares graduates for the practice of l~w in all jurisdictions throughout the U.S. Our students benefit from an emphasis on ethics, natural law, the moral foundations of law, and the rich Catholic intellectual tradition. 
Inspired by Pope John Paul TI's encyclical, Fides el Ratio, Ave Maria School of Law produces graduates who are extremely well prepared for the practice of law and will approach their legal careers as an extension of their personal values and faith. 
Ave Maria graduates have: 
• 
Taken the bar exam in 33 states, achieving a first-time pass rate of88 percent 

• 
Secured 34 prestigious judicial clerkships, 28 ofthese with federal courts 

• 
Accepted employment at national and regional law firms, federal and state agencies, and a host of public-interest organizations 


Visit Ave Maria's website for information about the Law School's generous scholarship program. As many as 20 full-tuition awards will be granted to members ofthe 2007 entering class. 
Pro Bowl safety Bob Sanders 
(knee) back for the first time in 
a month. 
The Colts are averaging 28 points; the Broncos are allowing just seven a game. 
"We believe we can score on anybody, and I'm sure they like to believe they can stop any­one," Colts coach Tony Dungy said. "Everybody's going to focus on that matchup, but spe­cial teams, our defense against their offense is going to be just as critical." 
What everyone really wants to see, however, is Indy's prolific offense going against Denver's dominant defense. Peyton Manning, Marvin Harrison, Reggie Wayne and Dallas Clark vs. Al Wilson, Champ Bailey, Darrent Williams, John Lynch and Ian Gold. 
"They are just playing excel­lent fundamental defense right now," said Manning, who spends most of his waking hours dissecting defenses and has found few flaws to exploit in this one. "Their tackling is exceptional. That's one thing that just jumps out at you." 
In many ways, the Broncos have the Colts to thank for their defensive dominance, the seeds of which were planted following the 2003 and '04 postseasons when Indianapolis spanked the Broncos by a combined 56-point margin. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 232-8444 
Friday, October 27, 2006 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 

r
}" ) ' 
' ' 
' ( 
'~ 
: \ 
l 
I ,} 

I' 
L 

,, 

) 
~ 
~ 
) 
( _} 
I' 
(\ 
~~ 
I 
-:-­
?:: 
~ 
(
( . 
~ 
( 
( 
( I I 
( ( 
i 
I I 
~ 
i I I 
I . 
( 
I 
I It (i 
t( 
,,(I 
(' 
I . 
I ~ 
------------------------· ---­
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
NFL 

Ravens prepare to take on Saints
Belles get ready for 
New Orleans looks to remain unbeaten in Superdome Sunday 
last meet of season 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -The last
week before the champi­
MIAA championship onships," Bauters said. 
time the Baltimore Ravens 
For the final week of prac­
came to town, it was two days
awaits tea1n Saturday 
tices, Bauters emphasized 
before Hurricane Katrina blew 
group goals, while the runners 
apart the Superdome's roof. 
By BECKI DORNER discussed how to improve the 
Apathy defined the ambiance 
Sports Writer teamwork that helped them in 
of a half-full arena during the 
the Manchester Invitational. 
Ravens' 21-6 preseason victory 
The Belles head into the The Belles hope to improve 
over a Saints squad that was 
MIAA championship meet on last year's fifth-place finish 
about to endure four months of 
Saturday in Alma, Mich. with in the MIAA standings. Last 
displacement and a lot more 
renewed confidence after year at the MIAA champi­
losing. 

recent impressive performanc-onship, Sara Otto was the 
This season, visiting teams 
es. squad's best runner with a 
have yet to win in the rebuilt 
In their last time of 24:15 on 
Superdome, . where the 
revamped Saints (5-1) have
meet of the sea-the 6K course. 
son, the Fellow senior 
delighted sellout crowds -not
..This season has 
to mention sympathetic televi­
Manchester Katie White
been wonderful thus
College recorded her 
sion audiences -with victories 
Invitational, the far, and I believe the best finish last 
over Atlanta, Tampa Bay and 
Belles finished team is ready for a year at the 
Philadelphia. 
third out of nine MIAA champi­
"Obviously, they are the
great race this 
sweethearts of the league,
teams, and onship as well. 
Megan Gray took Saturday. , where she fin­
everybody loves (them). and 
the individual ished 33rd, 
deservedly so," Baltimore 
title. In the pre­clocking in at 
coach Brian Billick said this
Jackie Bauters
vious meet, the 24:45. 
week. "You go in and beat
Belles coach 

E a g l e Invitational, Gray took fourth indi­vidually and the team took fourth overall. 
"The team looked stronger than most other teams during the second half of the race and ran well together," Belles coach Jackie Bauters said of the Manchester Invitational. 
In preparation for the MIAA meet, many of the team mem­bers stayed around campus for fall break. 
"(It] benefited the team and allowed them to stay more in the flow of the season, rather than being totally out of sync a Todd Heap said after seeing McNair practice this week. "You couldn't tell anything about any concussion.... It was basically like the normal Steve out there." 
It also gave Billick more time to take over the offense after he fired offensive coordinator Jim Fassel. Billick will call the plays for the first time this season in a stadium where crowd noise has disrupted visiting teams. 
"This will be like nothing they have ever heard," Billick said of his players. "I have been in that building when it has been cranked.... The noise doesn't go anywhere. It is as hard a dome to play in as there is." 
But recent history shows Baltimore has done well com­ing off a week's rest, having won the next game after a bye four seasons running. 
Past trends matter little to the Saints, who seem to have entered a new era under rookie coach Sean Payton. But Payton does have memories of facing the Ravens, and they aren't good. 
He was the Giants' offensive coordinator in Super Bowl 35, when the Ravens shut down the Giants in a 34-7 romp. 
"That's a bad horror movie for me," Payton recalled. 
These Ravens, like that Super Bowl team, are known for defense, led once again by line­backer Ray Lewis, who has a team-high 39 tackles and has assisted on 11 more. 
The Baltimore defense is allowing only 11.5 points per game, the third-lowest average in the league. The Ravens have 19 sacks, most of them by line­backers executing a confusing array of blitzes from a 3-4 defense. 
They may present the tough­est challenge of the season for New Orleans' revamped offen­sive line, which has new starters at every position from last season, including rookie guard Jahri Evans and right tackle Jon Stinchcomb, who never started before this year. 
"This defense challenges you before the ball is even snapped, just recognizing your assign­ment," Stinchcomb said. "We've seen a lot of film where there's been some confusion on the offensive line. Second, they've got a great group of athletes. So, one is recognizing who you've got to block, and two is getting the job done, which is not an easy task." 
So far, the Saints' new line has allowed only six sacks, even shutting out a Philadelphia defense that had 23 coming into the Superdome two weeks ago. 
Quarterback Drew Brees has taken some pressure off by throwing quickly and accurate­ly to receivers Joe Horn and Marques Colston, as well as running back Reggie Bush, who catches the ball coming out of the backfield or lining up as a receiver. The Saints also expected receiver Devery Henderson, who missed the last three games with a shoulder injury, to be back this weekend. 
Meanwhile, Deuce McAllister has averaged 4.9 yards a carry, the only question with him being how well he has recov­ered from a minor hamstring injury against Philadelphia. 
Bauters is 
optimistic about 

the conference meet this time around. 
"This season has been won­derful thus far, and I believe the team is ready for a great race this Saturday," she said. 
The main competition for the Belles will be last year's MIAA champion Calvin College, Hope and Albion. But the most important thing is, Gray said, "for everyone to just go out there and have fun, run their race and enjoy it." 
Contact Becki Dorner ar 
rdorner1 @nd.edu 
2 0 0 6-0 7 SEASON
Quality 
NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS
off-campus tiousing 
Leasing for 2007-2008 school year 
Houses, Townhouses, Apartments 
• 
Close to campus • Washers & dryers 

• 
Student neighborhoods • Dishwashers 

• 
Security systems • Internet ready 

• 
24-hour maintenance staff • Lawn service 


Call today -properties rent quickly. Contact Kramer at 
(574) 315-5032 (cefiJ (574) 234•2436(officeJ 
To view all of our houses, visit www.kramerhouses.com 


them, you might as well go and beat up on Mother Teresa ­you know? 'You scums, what are you doing here?' 
"But, that is what we are going to try to do." 
The Ravens (4-2) can hardly afford to be polite guests, hav­ing lost two straight going into last week's bye. 
The week off came at a good time, primarily because quar­terback Steve McNair needed the rest after being knocked out of Baltimore's last game with a concussion and strained neck. 
McNair practiced this week with the first team and expect­ed to be ready. 
"He is ready to go," tight end 

Friday, October 27, 2006 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 
ND CRoss CouNTRY 
Irish look for three-peat 
Runners travel to Boston to compete in Big East Tournament 
teams that have a good chance
ByJAY FITZPATRICK 
as well. It's going to come
Sports Writer 
down to just a couple of points." One team with a grudge After weeks of preparation, against Notre Dame is the races are finally starting to Georgetown, who was a close matter. runner-up for last year's confer­Notre Dame will compete ence title. 
against the best its conference "Georgetown always wants to 
has to offer today  beat us, especially  
in Boston at the  since  we  beat  
Big East tourna­ment.  ../ think we ·ve got  them by only a single point last  
The Irish men  as good a shot as  year," Benninger  
are one of the favorites to win  anybody.,  said. Georgetown also  
again this year.  competed in the  
Notre Dame has  Kurt Benninger  Pre-National Meet  
won the confer­ Irish senior  Oct. 14, but ran in  

ence tournament the last two years and six of 12 Big East titles since joining the conference in 1994. 
That history is compounded with Notre Dame's success this year, knocking off higher ranked opponents in each of its last two races -the Notre Dame Invitational and the Pre­National Tournament. 
Despite Notre Dame's history at the event and in recent tour­naments, the Irish are still faced with some tough competi­tion for the conference title. Three teams join No. 12 Notre Dame in the USTFCCCA Top 30 -No. 16 Georgetown, No. 20 Providence and No. 23 Louisville -meaning the com­petition will be very stiff for this year's crown. 
"I think we've got as good a shot as anybody. Last year we were the heavy favorite but this year we're definitely not," said senior All-American Kurt Benninger. "There's three other the Blue Division while the Irish were in the White. 
Even so, the Hoyas ran a strong race their last time out, fm­ishing fifth but dropping in the polls. 
The top two striders for Notre Dame will be Benninger and sophomore Patrick Smyth, who have led the 
Although the stakes are a lot higher for this race than they have been for Notre Dame's other races, practice has been business as usual for Irish coach Joe Piane. 
"I wouldn't say lPiane has] done anything special at all lin practice)." Benninger said. "Everything since the beginning of the year has been geared toward this part of the year. Everybody's known what we need to do to take the Big East and then Regionals and the 
NCAAs." 

The women's team is also running the Big East tourna­ment, but it will have a much harder time if it hopes to suc­ceed. With disappointing fin­ishes in the Notre Dame 
..Everything since the beginning of the year has been geared toward this part ofthe year. •· 
Kurt Benninger Irish senior 

Invitational and the Pre-National Meet, Notre Dame's chances rest with its vet­
erans,  namely  
junior  Sunni  
Olding.  

Olding finished 18th in the Pre­National Meet, but she was the only Irish female in the top 50. 
Irish climb in the polls in the last month with great finishes in each of their two races on the season. Benninger has had continued success against Big East competition, finishing in the top 10 in his other two Big East tournaments. 
"There's a lot of good guys that are going to be up there so we're going to just go up there and see what happens," he said. 
This destroyed any chance the Irish had of doing well in the race, meaning Notre Dame will have to have its other runners try to stay near the top for it to succeed. 
The Irish will also face two 
ranked  teams  - No.  12  
Providence  and  No.  18  
Georgetown.  

Contact Jay Fitzpatdck at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
NFL 
Barber brothers to face each other for last time ­
Tampa tries to continue two game win streak 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD -A lit­
tle less than two months after 
kicking off the season with the 
Manning Bowl, the New York 
Giants have another brotherly 
matchup: the Barber Bowl. 
Unlike the opener that pitted Peyton and Eli Manning in the first NFL game featuring broth­ers as the starting quarter­backs, Ronde and Tiki Barber will be meeting for the fifth time as pros when the Tampa Bay Buccaneers {2-4) and Giants (4-2) play Sunday at Giants Stadium. 
While not as hyped as the Manning matchup, this game is just as special because it might be the last time the twins run into each other -literally. 
Barring a change of heart, Tiki plans to retire after this season to pursue a television career. 
"It's pretty set," the Giants halfback said. "It is set. I have tons of other things that I am interested in and eager and excited to get to doing. Obviously, the last 10 games of the season are first on that list. But, beyond and the rest of my life, there's a lot." 
Ronde isn't surprised, but the Bucs cornerback refused to write off his brother entirely for the 2007 season. 
"I think he's had a feeling for a vear now, at least, and I saw it: to tell you the truth, in the offseason when we were work­ing out," said Ronde, who hopes to play for another five years. "He just wasn't the same. The passion to get up and get ready wasn't the same." 
Luckily for the Giants, Tiki hasn't lost his passion for the regular season. In fact, the twins are both having spectac­ular seasons. 
Tiki leads the NFL in rushing with 647 yards, and is a major reason the Giants have turned around their season with three straight wins. 
Ronde had a career game last Sunday, returning two inter­ceptions for touchdowns in an improbable 23-21 victory over the Philadelphia Eagles, a win 
nailed down on a 62-yard field 
goal by former Giant Matt 
Bryant as time expired. 
During one of their telephone 
conversations this week, Ronde 
didn't hesitate to let Tiki know 
his two touchdowns are two 
more than Tiki has this season. 
"My brother and I have always been competitive, and we've rarely done the same things," Tiki said. "For instance, in track he was a hur­dler, and I was a long jumper. Football, he played defense, and I played offense. But we always competed against each other's successes. 
"For instance, when he would win, I would say, 'There's no way I'm not winning," Tiki added. ''I'm not going home without something if he won.' And I think that's driven us all the way through, even now into the National Football League." 
As much as they compete personally against each other, the Barbers played on the same teams from their days in Pop Warner football through the University of Virginia. The only times they weren't on the same teams were in neighborhood pickup games. 
"If we were on opposite teams, we hated each other," said Ronde, who also leads the Bucs in tackles. "We both want­ed to win so fervently. I think that's probably the only time I've really disliked Tiki. for the most part, sports was just a way for us to get after people together." 
Even in those 'hated' moments, there was a bond. 
"When we would get into fights with a teammate playing in the backyard or something, as soon as they would gang up on one of us, we all settled back on the same team again, so it was kind of cool," Tiki said. 
The Barbers both intend to bring families and friends to the game, which is important for both teams. 
After impressive wins against Washington at home and on the road at Atlanta and Dallas to take the lead in the NFC East, the Giants can't afford a let­down. They were in a similar position last year. They won three in a row to get to 6-2 and then lost to the sub-.500 Minnesota Vikings at home on a late field goal. 

WE SEE A FUrfllRE IN IT FC)RYC)U. 
JVhy, what do you see? 
-
A career in clinical psychology and a doctoral degree 
from George Fox University. Caring mentoring, Christian worldview, national accreditation, and located in the beautiful Northwest. 
GEORGE Fox CALL 800-631-0921 UNIVERSITY psyd.georgefox.edu 

Friday, October 27, 2006 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 

\,._ -­
~-­

( 
I 
I 1 
I -, 
rf !{ 
... 
~ ;j 
' 
! f 
I 
? 'rr 
:.'( 
(( 
~f 
n· 
r ( " 
! 
! I 
I ( 
~ 
I 
I 
( 
( I 
I . t 
I I 
.. 
( I ( . ( . I 
I' 
,, It 
lr 
(' 
( 
( 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish to play rival Louisville 
By KYLE CASSILY 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame and Louisville square off Sunday in Kentucky in a rematch of last year's Big East championship and for sole possession of second place in the league. 
The Irish {13-8, 7-1 Big East) fell out of first place in the league Sunday with a 3-0 loss to St. John's and are currently tied with the Cardinals (14-6, 7-1 Big East). Louisville must face DePaul a day before the match, and the Irish play Saturday at Cincinnati (15-5, 5-3 Big East}. 
The Louisville match will be televised nationally at 1 p.m. Sunday on ESPNU amidst an already sold-out Cardinal arena. 
"We expect it to be a very loud crowd and a fun environment to play in," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. 
The Irish and Cardinals last met Nov. 20, 2005 when No. 8 Notre Dame defeated No. 7 Louisville 3-2 for the Big East title. The Cardinals had won the regular season match. 
Brown said that Louisville is adept with net play, attacking and blocking due to their height. 
"We will have to serve very tough to keep them out of [their] system," Brown said. "They're very physical and very big." 
Freshman Tatyana Kolesnikova (Tashkent, Uzbekistan) leads the Cardinals with 218 kills, while Svetlana Dukule (Riga, Latvia) is second with 174. There are six interna­tional players on Louisville's 11­woman roster. 
As important as Sunday's match will be, the team refuses 



INTERRACE FORUM: IMMIGRATION: FIRST? SECOND? AND FUTURE GENERATIONS 
PART II: PERSONAL STORIES NOVEMBER 1ST, 2006 5:30 P.M. COLEMAN-MORSE LOUNGE DINNER AND DISCUSSION 
The Irish huddle up for the alma mater following a 3-0 win over Syracuse Oct. 8. The team plays two league games this weekend. 
to look past middle-of-the pack Cincinnati. The Bearcats are in their second Big East season, along with the Cardinals, after moving from Conference USA. 
"I honestly don't think that it would be possible to look past [Cincinnatil," Brown said. "We've done special drills to get ready for them. Coming off a loss, we're not going into any match thinking we got this one." 
Serving is the key to an Irish win Saturday against Cincinnati, Brown said. The Irish served no aces in their last match. 
"Cincinnati is a good blocking team," Brown said. "It's impor­tant for us to be really smart with our shots. We need to make sure we're not going up and just powering it through their block. We have to hit smart." 
The Irish have rebounded 
well from Sunday's loss to St. John's, Brown said. Players have come early to practice to spend extra time on their block­ing and passing in preparation for this weekend's key confer­ence showdowns. 
"We just continue to work on the fundamental skills," Brown said. "Our group is so motivated and so resilient it's not like we have to come back in and muster up motivation or feel sorry for ourselves." 
And with only four matches left in the regular season after this weekend, the Big East regu­lar season title is still up for grabs. 
"It's going to be a battle to the end," Brown said. "We have to play well every night we go out." 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.etlu 

RSVP BY OCTOBER 30TH MSPS@ND.EDU OR 631-6841 SPONSORED BY MULTICULTURAL STUDENT PROGRAMS AND SER\1ICES 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles ready to start conference postseason 
Team will face fifth­seeded Kalamazoo 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 

The first MIAA postseason tournament kicks off this Saturday with four first­
round matchups,  one  of  
which  includes  Saint  
Mary's.  

The Belles finished in fourth place and drew a home game against Kalamazoo that will be played at noon. 
The fifth-seeded Hornets finished the year at 3-3-2 in conference play -two points behind the Belles. 
The two teams met Sept. 30 on a cold, rainy after­noon. Saint Mary's man­aged to scratch out a 2-1 win, despite not scoring an offensive goal. The Hornets 
Leading the way for all games on the season was sophomore Kelly Lepper (nine goals, nine assists). Lepper was named MIAA offensive player of the week twice this season. 
Goalkeeper Kassandra Johnston was also given MIAA honors the week of Oct. 5 for her work between the posts. The freshman made 14 saves in a 0-0 double-overtime game with Olivet, and fol­lowed it up with another shut out two days later as the Hornets took down Franklin College 5-0. 
"We have been working of finishing a lot in practice so hopefully that will carry over into the game," Courtney said. 
Johnston finished the sea­son with seven shutouts and a goals-against average 
of 1.20. 

Saint Mary's 
will need to put 
plenty of shots 
put two balls "They are a good on net in order into their own to have a
team and it is
net, one in chance of each half, going to be an advancing to 
allowing the evenly fought the second 
Belles · to round. The
game.
squeak by and Belles managed collect their to get off a sea­second confer­Colleen Courtney son-high 41 ence win of the Belles midfielder shots in the 
year. 

"We have a really good chance to win," senior Colleen Courtney said. "They are a good team and it is going to be an evenly fought game." 
Freshman Paige Howell scored Kalamazoo's goal less than eight minutes into the game to even the score at 1-1, but the Hornets offense was unable to get anything else going for the remainder of the game. 
Seven different Kalamazoo players con­tributed to the team's nine conference goals for a very balanced offensive attack. 

One person makes a difference when the mission of Christ meets the world. 
··Be that person. Join us. 
For more Information about becoming a Maryknoll Priest or Brother, contact: 
Greg Darr, Director 5128 S. Hyde Park Blvd. Chicago, IL 60615-4217 

e-mail: gdarr@maryknoll.org phone: (773) 493-3367 Ext. 262 
final regular 
season game 
with Tri-State 
Wednesday. 

Sophomore forward Lauren Hinton led the way with seven shot", one of which found the back of the net. Senior captains Ashley Hinton and Courtney also looked on top of their games in the season finale with a goal each. 
"Every game counts now so I just have to play my best and hope it is enough to come away with a win," Courtney said. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

Is it you? 

Friday, October 27, 2006 page 21
The Observer • SPORTS 
tempo of the game, they are confi­"We need to stop them up front," what his team focused on this can't focus on the past. This is not 
dent in their chances to upset Wieland said. "The battle will be on week. "We've prepared the same the same team as last year." 
Wave 
continued from page 24 
captain Brandon McLeod said. "But l am disappointed with the out­come. The team feels that we were a lot better than our 2-2 record for the season." 
The Griflins will have a tough time this weekend against the Green Wave. Fisher ended its sea­son with a big win over their rivals from Carroll Hall, and the team is hoping it will be able to maintain that momentum deep into the post­season. 
While Fisher is optimistic about its chances in the playoffs, it suf­fered a major setback at the end of the regular season. Against Carroll, Fisher quarterback Kevin Rabil was carried off the field in an ambu­lance. Rabil broke his ankle and is out for the rest of the season. 
The Green Wave is counting on their back-up quarterback, Pat Gotebeski, to step up. Gotebeski showed he is ready to take on the role when he sealed the victory over Carroll with a 49-yard touch­down drive. 
"The team has been practicing more this week to make sure that we are as prepared as possible going into Sunday's game," Rabil said. "We don't want to leave any­thing on the table." 
Stanford, who lost to Alumni and Keenan, knows this weekend's game will be tough, but the team thinks it is ready for the challenge. The Griffins have been working hard to prepare for the big game, and ifthe offense can dominate the Fisher. 
"Fisher is a really good team ­very sound offensively," McLeod said. "And they have a very di<ici­plined defense. I think our size, aggressiveness and overall team speed will be the advantage for us." 
The two teams will play on Sunday at 1:30 pm on the Riehle Fielcl<>. 
Zahm vs. Morrissey 
Can momentum trump talent? 
Zahm has the two-game winning streak. Morrissey has the better record and a size advantage. One will prevail Sunday, when the Rabid Bats face the Manorites at 2:30 
p.m. on Riehle North Field. Morrissey's size has not escaped Zahm captain Sean Wieland's eye. 
"We need to have a balanced attack," he said. "They're big, so we need to be able to run the ball so we can open up other facets of our offense. Their tight end is pretty tall, so we'll definitely keep an eye on 
him." 

Zahm, at 2-2 with the No. 6 seed, is looking for the upset. Morrissey, who at 3-1 has the No. 3 seed, comes into the playoffs fresh off a loss to Keenan. 
"We worked on being consistent in what we had," Manorite captain Steve Klein said. "We had some miscommunications in the Keenan game, so we've worked on that." 
The success of both teams will hinge on the play of their linemen. Zahm must find a way to win the battle in the trenches against a larger Morrissey front to stay in this game. 
the line." 

Morrissey has confidence in both 
its offen<;ive and defen<;ive lines and 
for good reason. 

"Our offensive line has been great," Klein said. "It's given us options on offense and allowed us to pass. Our defense has played well across the board all season, especially our line and linebackers." 
Morrissey's offensive Jine will have its hands full. Zahm's defen­sive front four have had success this year in locking up their man and preventing them from reaching the backfield. 
"We need to play the way we've played the last two weeks," Wieland said. "We'll do the same 
stuff." 
O'Neill vs. Carroll 

Neither the Mob nor the Vermin have a clear advantage on Sunday, when Carroll squares off against O'Neill at 1:30 p.m. on Riehle South Field. 
Both by chance -the two teams were 3-1 in the regular season. And by design -Carroll, the No. 4 seed, plays O'Neill, the No. 5 seed -this game is the closest match-up of the first round of the playoffs. 
Carroll's only loss came against No. 1-seoded Fisher, O'Neill lost to second-seeded Keenan. The winner will play Fisher or Stanford in the second round. 
Both teams know the importance of the game, but they trust that the strategies that got them to the play­offs will continue to be successful. 
"Nothing special," Carroll captain Mike Versagli said, when asked 
way. We'll run plays that we feel we're best at." O'Neill captain Pat Conley said the same thing. 
"We haven't worked on anything special," Conley said. "We're doing what we've been doing. We've been working on offense, working on defen')C, getting ready to play." 
Carroll hopes to get its pass offense on track after its loss to Fisher. 
"We need to play better than against Fisher," Versagli said. "We need to get our passing game on track and go from there." 
O'Neill, on the other hand, views the running game as the important factor of offensive success. 
"We need to establish the run," Conley said. "We'll take what the defense is giving us, but we really need to establish the run." 
O'Neill's defense has been strong all season, and Conley doesn't expect any less on Sunday. 
"Our defense has been pretty solid," he said. We've had a few shutouts, and that's what we're looking for, is a shutout." 
Keenan vs. Siegfried 
The Keenan Knight<; will look to continue their push for a return trip to Notre Dame Stadium when they face off against the 2-2 Siegfried Ramblers. 
The game will be played Sunday at 2:30 p.m. on Stepan Fields. 
However, while Keenan was the runner up last season, team captain Matt Gibson said that game is the farthest thing from his team's mind. 
"Thi" is a new year," he said. "We 
Keenan rolled through the com­petition this faJl en route to a 4-0 record. It knocked off highly-touted Morrissey in its final game of the season to clinch the Gold League regular season title. 
Meanwhile, the Ramblers are reeling after a heartbreaking 14-13 loss in the final seconds to Zahm. 
Siegfried will look to ostablL'ih the run early with running backs Pat Manning and Matt Wopperer. This dual threat wa<; a point of empha<;is for Gibson and hi'> team during the week. 
"We have to stop their rushing attack," he said. "This game will most likely be decided by the play of the lines." 
Each team's most recent game was prior to Fall Break, over three weeks ago. 
"The break was good to get guys rested and healthy," Gibson said. "We got back to the grind as usual this week." 
One interesting thing to watch will be the head-to-head battle between the Knights' starting back, Alex Gonzalez, and the Ramblers' tandem ofWopperer and Manning. 
Gibson also pointed to his line­backer trio of Adam Fisher, Joe Pappas and Alex Staffieri as poten­tial game-changers. 
On the flipside, Pablo Nava, Siegfried's kicker, is close to auto­matic. Ifthe game is decided by the special teams, he will be an asset. 
Contact Katie Donlin at kdon­
lin@nd.edu, Bill Brink at 
wbrink@nd.edu and Colin 
Reimer at creimer1@nd.edu 
Walsh 
continued from page 24 
need to keep our team chemistry up." 
Spring admitted that there were aspects of the game that wil1 present challenges. 
"Our team has never seen Walsh play, so we're going in a little blind," she said. "And we'll need to just play to the best of our abilities." 
So what does Walsh need to do on Sunday to pull off the upset? 
Senior Wild Woman Laurie Wasikowski believes she knows the answer to that question. 
"The key is execution," she said. 
The winner of the game will advance to the second round, where they will match up against the winner of Welsh Family versus Breen-Phillips. 
Cavanaugh vs. Farley 
No. 4 Cavanaugh, once the top-ranked team in the Blue League, will battle No. 5 Farley Sunday in the opening game of the playoffs Sunday at 2 p.m. on West Quad. 
Chaos captain Kerri Bergen believes her team is entering the postseason with momentum, thanks to a 7-0 win over Lyons in Week 5. The win helped to erase the bad taste that resulted from two consecutive midseason losses. 
"The final game can definitely set the tone for how we mentally go into the first game of the playoffs," Bergen said. "And I think it's going to help tremen­dously that we came off with a win." 
Cavanaugh quarterback Katie Dunn led the Chaos against Lyons. She passed for a touch­down on the first drive of the game while the defense held on to preserve the victory. 
It was Cavanaugh's second win of the year and its second shutout of the season. However, it also marked the second time that the Chaos offense scored seven points or fewer, which could be a concern. 
Bergen said that her team can win the battle in the trenches on both sides of the ball. 
"The offensive and defensive lines have been working hard all year and have done a tremen­dous job," she said. "They don't get credit often, but they've been a major factor in our wins so far this year." 
As with Cavanaugh, Farley enters the postseason on a high note, following two consecutive wins to close out the regular season. The Finest turned their season around in Week 4, with a forfeit win over McGlinn. 
The Finest then went on to defeat Lewis, 26-6, the following week. 
Despite Farley's initial dis­pleasure with beating McGlinn by forfeit, the Finest clearly ben­efited from the win, which helped to strengthen the squad's late playofl' push. The following week's dominant victory over Lewis guaranteed that the Finest would enter the postsea­son on a roll. 
Neither team has played a game since the Sunday before Fall Break, but Bergen is not concerned. 
"We had practice the week before the break, and we've had a couple practices already this week to prepare for Sunday," she said. 
The Chaos appears to be tak­ing the high pressure of the playoffs in stride. 
"We want to have fun, but we're not taking this lightly," Bergen said. 
Breen Phillips vs. Welsh Family 
The Breen-Phillips Babes return to the postseason for the first time since 2004 when they face Welsh Family on Sunday at 4 p.m. on West Quad. 
At 6-0, the Whirlwinds look to spoil the Babes' (2-3-1) hopes of a Cinderella run to the Stadium. 
Welsh Family captain Brittany Scott identified the importance of getting a good start to demor­alize its inexperienced opponent. 
"We'll definitely try to get an early lead," Scott said, "We don't want to have to play from behind." 
Scott also downplayed the notion ~f "looking ahead" to a potential matchup with defend­ing champs Pasquerilla West. 
"We're going to treat this like any other game," she said. "We have to take it one game at a time to get to the Stadium." 
Meanwhile, Breen-Phillips has quietly been one of the more surprising teams this season. Behind the leadership of captain and quarterback Melissa Meagher, as well as receivers Meghan Ohlenforst and Tara Johnson, the Babes rebounded from a disappointing season last year to edge out Howard for the final Gold League playoff spot. 
Meagher counts on her team's energy and desire to keep the Babes in position to win. 
"We are excited to play, and we have a lot of confidence that if we play our game, we will beat Welsh [Family]," she said. 
"We know that they have a lot of talent, but we are excited to play." 
Both teams may come out sluggish as a result of the Fall Break layoff, but Scott said that her Whirlwind team would not be affected. 
"We 'vc had more than our usual number of practices this week, so it shouldn't be to our disadvantage," she said. 
Meagher agreed. 
"It probably wasn't good to have the week off, but we prac­ticed a couple times this week and we should be ready," she said. 
Meagher said solid fundamen­tals and focus was a priority for her team, while Scott said that forcing three-and-outs will be a point of emphasis. 
"We've lost one of our defen­sive stars for this week," Scott said. "But everyday it's someone different who makes a big play. So we'll just have to see who it is against BP." 
Notes: 
+Pangborn will play Badin Sunday at 1 p.m. on West Quad. 
Contact Andrew Kovach at ako­
vach@nd.edu, John Tierney at 
jtierney@nd.edu and Colin 
Reimer at creimer 1 @nd.edu 
-

-
Friday, October 27, 2006 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 

conceded two goals in a game since a 2-0 loss to Providence
Rutgers 

on Sept. 10. continued from page 24 "I reckon they're overdue to 
lose some goals, and it's up to tougher this season. If the us to find a way to do that," Scarlet Knights played in the Clark said. "I don't think too Blue Division, they would have many things will change. We'll finished in sixth place out of play our game regardless." eight teams. Defensively, the Irish will 
But Notre Dame coach Bobby have to contain Rutgers play­Clark knows that Hutgers is a making junior midfielder Chris formidable oppo-Moore, who leads nent. the Scarlet 
"It's difficult to Knights in both
"Everyone I've 
judge teams assists (five} and unless you play spoken to says points (nine). them, but there's [Rutgers is} a If Notre Dame is no question able to get past
contender to win
they're going to Rutgers, a poten­
the Big East." 
be a good team," tial rematch looms Clark said. with No. 4 West "Everyone I've Bobby Clark Virginia, the only spoken to says team to beat the
Irish coach 

they're a con­Irish in their last tender to win the 11 games. The Big East." Mountaineers nar­
The two teams play contrast­rowly defeated Notre Dame 2­ing styles -Notre Dame 1 Oct. 18 in Morgantown. known for its offensive Clark, who has repeatedly prowess and Hutgers respect­preached the mantra of taking ed for its stingy defense. The it one game at a time this sea­Irish, led by junior forward son, is not worried about his Joseph Lapira. who leads the team looking ahead to the nation in goals and points, later rounds. have averaged 2.5 goals per "We've been very good on game over their last 10 con­not looking ahead this season," tests. Clark said. "One game at a 
Rutgers, winner of eight of time, that's our motto. Right its last 10 games, has ridden a now, we're very focused on stingy defense that has Rutgers." allowed only .5 goals per con­test over the 10-game stretch. Contact Greg Arbogast at The Scarlet Knights have not garbogas@nd.edu 

Tourney 
continued from page 24 

8:05 p.m. in order to determine the tournament champion. ­
The Black Knights (3-0-1) are currently in first place in the Atlantic Hockey Conference after a pair of weekend wins over Connecticut. Seven of the team's 12 goals were scored while the Huskies were shorthanded. 
"They have the best power play in the country right now, no game in college hockey is an easy one," senior defenseman Wes O'Neill said. 
O'Neill, along with the rest of the Irish penalty-killing unit will be tested this weekend. Through four games, Notre Dame has held opponents to only three power play goals on 28 attempts. 
The two teams have met 15 times in the past and the Irish currently hold a slight at advan­tage with eight wins and seven losses. 
The other Academy in the tour­nament, Air Force, comes into the weekend with a 2-4 record. Junior Eric Ehn is averaging two points a game (8 goals, 4 assists) to lead the Falcons in the early part of the season. The winger is on pace to crush his previous career high of 14 goals in his sophomore year. 
East tournament hopes. Sop homore strikers Kerri Hanks and Brittany Bock and freshman forward Michele Weissenhofer all scored goals as the unit has solidified itself as one of the fiercest attacks in the country, with Hanks' 15 goals ranking fourth in the nation and Weissenhofer's 15 assists ranking first. That balance up front is crucial to their tournament success, accord­ing to Waldrum. 
"I think if you've got it spread out like that, it means the team is playing well as a group," he said. "All three are so different in the way they play. When they're all playing well like that, it's very difficult to shut all of them down." 
Eyeing its ninth Big East championship, Waldrum says Notre Dame is ready to take on the second half of the sea­son. 
"With this team, in the his­tory of the program, the play­offs are really what you get excited about," he said. "It's good to get into that part of it. Now you have to step it up another notch. We're looking forward to it." 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 

Air Force's first-round oppo­nent, Alabama-Huntsville, has one win in its first six games. The Chargers came out on top of a 4-2 decision over Wayne State Oct. 20. 
"We just have to go out and do what we did last weekend," Irish captain T.J. Jindra said. "A great team goes out and plays every weekend no matter who they are up against, and that's what were trying to be here." 
Notre Dame took a big step in the right direction last weekend with wins over No. 1 Boston College and Providence. The Irish outscored their Hockey East opponents by a total of 13-2 to bring their season total to 21 goals scored and six allowed. 
The Irish will not play at home again until Nov. 10 against Bowling Green. 
Notes: 

+Jackson would earn his 200th career win with a sweep of the Lightning Classic this weekend. The second-year Irish coach is 198-72-29 in eight years behind a college bench. 
He ranks 22nd in all-time wins among active collegiate coaches and has the best winning percent­age (.711) among those with at least five years behind a bench. 
Contact Dan Murphy at 
dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Storm 
continued from page 24 
especially relying on assistant coach and son Ben Waldrum this week to analyze that tape. 
"I don't know much about [St. John's)," Waldrum said. "The rest of this week we're going to get as much info on them. Ben pretty much gath­ers the information on all the opposition and breaks those teams down. I concentrate on 
Styles aside, Waldrum knows his squad must come motivated to enter the single­e lim ination tournament, especially considering an NCAA Tournament berth is at stake for their opponent and home field advantage is on the line for the Irish. 
"We would expect any team late in the season to play their best soccer," he said. "They're a team you clearly can't take lightly. A couple years ago, [the] University of Miami came here and took us in to overtime. You just can't 
our team with "We would expect take it lightly in game prepara­a playoff game
any team late in 
tion." because you 
Judging by the the season to play don't get a sec­Storm's record their best soccer.., ond shot at it. alone, which Our approach includes a 0-0 won't be any
Randy Waldrum 
tie against third­different than seeded Rutgers Irish coach approaching a 

and a 3-1 regu­lar season win over Seton Hall, Waldrum said he expects a challenge. 
"They've had some really good results and held their own in conference, which tells me they've got to have some ability to finish where 
[North] Carolina or Santa Clara or someone of that caliber." 
The Irish enter Sunday's contest on a four game win­ning streak after suffering their only blemish this sea­son, a 0-0 tie at Connecticut Oct. 13. 
Notre Dame concluded the regular season with a 3-0 vic­tory over Cincinnati Tuesday, squashing the Bearcats Big 

SATURDAY, OcroBER 28TH @NooN 
they are," Waldrum  said.  
"They've  had  some  good  
results against  some  good  
teams."  

! 
' ( ~ vs. MICHIGAN STATE 
( 
( THE REGATIA STARTS@ THE BOATHOUSE, .·· ..... ···· ...
I 
( 
'I . WHERE NoTRE DAME AVE. MEETS THE RIVER · · .··.· I r' I , 
( i 
( r' I , ,, I' 
(( 
,, 
~ 
'' ( ­
I. 

Friday, October 27, 2006 page 23 
The Observer+ TODAY 
JOCULAR ALEC WHITE 
Excuse me. I'm promotingthe Women's 


Volleyball game this SaturdayYou should go. 
LtSc~r rh<' LL~. aw,ty 

(1 got rame~ Vree T-Shtrts?) 

CROISSANTWORLD 
WH'-\ lS THE. \--\11\\..\.. MAII-I"t'E· """"''-A.oo"-.......,..tl NANcE &""''{ 
ALW A'f.> -n.t~E ~=-JUI WKEN \ WPN'i -ro ~'IC-E P.. ~~oweR.. -r~ns 
IS A\..v..A"{S P.,.W~\..'.ALO..• 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
W E.u.., lT WASN'-f­t-\1&. , \--\ E H •••  
ME."t,NDI 'Tt>O ~UCH ~0 M'E.ONt; -r'"""-e..w uP lN ikE. U~IN~  

HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DEEXU 
[ J I (] 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
DARNS 
I I I 
NAKTIE 

± 

_ .. >.. ... 
www.jumble.com 
DIRNEH 
j 
Answer here: [ 

I I I I J ( I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: CHANT MOLDY SOLACE FLAXEN Answer: 
What must be learned to become a diamond cutter? -MANY "FACETS" 

TH£: BAKE=!< HIRE=D A HEL-PE:R B~AUSE: HE: HAD A--­

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
WILL SHORTZ 
ACROSS 41 Highly amusing 6 Took place 
1 Ones running 44 Sports 7 Professeur's things supporter charge 
16 It's black and 46 Discontinuities 8 It covers the tan main points
47 Brooklyn 17 Rooster holder Dodgers pitcher 9 Smith who won Labine Wimbledon in
18 Armies 197249 Robert of 19 Rooster holder, Broadway's "My 1oTV component
maybe Fair Lady" 
11 It ended in

20 "Good for life" 54 With nothing out 1806: Abbr. 
sloganeer of place 
12 1970-72 CBS 
21 Passbook abbr. 57 Flashlight sitcom 
22 Short units, alternative 13 Like some pools
perhaps 58 Comment when 
14 Is obviously 23 Not straight up something is happy28 Coverage over your head 15 Lapses

provider, briefly 21 Film director
30 Gone, and 
DOWN 
Vittorio

never to return 1 Dash part 
22 Passage

37 Where to see many rams? 2 Bygone cracker preventer brand 
23 Recipe direction
38 Sulky racer 3 Discord deity starter
39 In need of a lift 4 Shut (up) 24 Come across as40 Kind of 36 Recitation 46 Colette heroine 52 Time spent in a inspection 5 Some tributes 25 Hobbling accompanier seat
47 Pitcher's prize? 
26 Trail 
41 Charged 

53 Marine
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 48 Afford
27 In need of some 
42 Nonparticipation flier 
~...,...,..,.,.....,,...,...,,..., color 
49 Athletic assoc.
declaration 

28 Least bit of 50"_ put it 55 It officially 43 Big note recognized lsr.
concern another way ... " in 198844 Fox shelter 29 President 
51 -Neisse nicknamed Last 
45 "South Pacific" Line (border in 56 Literaryof the Cocked 
role Europe) monogramHats 
31 Not much 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 32 Headache credit card, 1-800-814-5554. intensifier Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
33 Is left with 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 34 Belle past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). (Italian culture) Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzlefon.:m. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords.
35 "Uh-huh" 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer ­and mail to: P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name Address City _________ State _____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Cary Elwes. 44; Lauren Tewes, 52; Pat Sajak. 
60; Jaclyn Smith. 61 
Happy Birthday: You've learned many lessons and now it"s time to utilize your experience to get ahead. The work and alterations you make this year will determine how well you will do for years to come. Nothing can hold you back now that you have made it this far. Take pleasure in knowing you are strong and can get whatever you want if you push for it. Your numbers are 2. II, 17, 23, 28, 39 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Plan your next vacation or a trip where you can mix business with pleasure. A move from one locale to another will do you a world of good. Put yourself into a category that allows you to earn more or just get ahead personally. 5 stars 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Everything will he riding on how well you get along with others. A deal can be made but be careful not to leave someone out. Try to keep things open and honest even if someone else is trying to do things behind your back. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't let your emotions stop you from making a good decision. Allow yourself time to finish what you start. Getting along with your colleagues will be half the battle. An older relative may offer you gtxJd advice. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Change is good--now go for it. You will discover a whole new side of yourself. Money can be made, career moves put into play and social friendships developed. You arc overdue for a complete makeover. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Au~. 22): You may feel like going out and having fun hut, if you neglect 
your responsibilities, you will pay late in the day. Be sensitive to the needs of others. An 
act of kindness will go a long way. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Everything will depend on how you react to others. You can form lasting partnerships that will help you move in a positive direction. Don't let emotional implications at home slow you down. 2 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Talk, collaborate and use your creative ability to take what you want to do one step further. A good idea will unfold, helping you jump to a new level. Change may be upsetting but will benefit you in the end. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You've been juggling too much for too long. Push some of the burden on someone else. Be honest about the way you feel and you will be able to put more time into something that really matters and will lead to prosperity. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't get all wigged out because someone is talking behind your back. If you don't make waves, what on eanh have you heen doing? You have to make yourself heard whether anyone wants to listen or not. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Follow through with your plans and make your suggestions. If no one wants to join you, go it alone and you will make gains. A trip will lead to some interesting information that will heip you make an important decision. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't make a move if it has to do with finances. Keep your money, possessions and personal papers in a safe place. This is not the time to ntake donations or to lend to a friend. 4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Someone who can make a difference to how far you get may be talking behind your back. Keep what you are doing out in the open. Communication and personal financial matters will be of utmost importance. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You have a worldliness about you with a curiosity that leads you into unfamiliar territory. You are passionate about life, love and pursuing your dreams, hopes and wishes. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice. com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 
I 
I I 


THE OBSERVER
• 
p
Friday, October 27, 2006 


I.: 
,.I I 
MEN's SoccER 

I 
I. 
I 
Knights of the pitch 

By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 

After an efficient 2-0 victory over DePaul Wednesday night in the first round of the Big East tournament, No. 8 Notre Dame travels to Piscataway, 
N.J. to take on Rutgers in the quarterfinals this Saturday. 
With its conference record of 6-4-1 during the regular sea­son, Rutgers earned the No. 2 seed in the Big East's Red Division, which qualified the Scarlet Knights for a first round bye in the tournament. 

Despite Notre Dame's supe­rior conference record of 8-3­0, the Irish played a first round game because they fin­ished third in the Big East's Blue Division behind Connecticut and West Virginia. The top two teams from both the Red and Blue Divisions received byes. 
It's no secret as to which of the two divisions has been 
see RUTGERS/page 22 
HOCKEY 

leers surf to Florida for Lightning tournament 
Christmas  than  Detroit,  or  
Minneapolis  or  Madison,"  
Jackson said.  


By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 

Not a single player on the Irish roster was alive the last time Notre Dame won a mid-season tournament. 
No. 11 Notre Dame travels to Tampa, Fla. this weekend in hopes of changing that at the first annual Lightning College llockey Classic, hosted by the Irish. 
On Dec. 30, 1981, the Irish captured the Great Lakes Invitational with an 8-3 win over Michigan Tech. Since then the trophy case has remained untouched. 
"I knew that at some point I wanted to create an environment for our team to play in a big venue," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 
Jackson, who already has four CCIIA titles and two national championships, played a big role in starting the tournament in order for his team to get accus­tomed to a high-pressure, post­season atmosphere. 
The second-year coach also hopes to use the location as a recruiting tool for future players when the tournament is moved to Christmas next season. ''I'd rather be in Tampa for 
Air Force, Alabama-Huntsville and Army, Notre Dame's first opponent, will join the Irish. The winners of the two Friday night contests will face off Saturday at 
see TOURNEY/page 22 
page 24 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Walsh,PW primed for playoff tilt 
By ANDREW KOVACH, JOHN TIERNEY and COLIN REIMER Sports Writers 
Sixth-seeded Walsh Hall hopes to score an upset Sunday afternoon at 3 p.m. on West Quad when it meets the No. 3 Pasquerilla West Purple Weasels in the first round of the Women's Interhall playoffs. 
The Purple Weasels' only blemish on the season came against top-ranked Pangborn. On the other hand, after a slow start Walsh was able to finish 4­2 and secure a spot in the post season. 
Both teams will not be satis­fied this season unless they leave West Quad with a playoff victory. PW is still hungry after losing the nail biter to Pangborn early in the year, while Walsh captain Mary Claire Sullivan knows that the Wild Women still haven't completed their goals. 
"We went 4-2 this season, but we definitely had a slow start and haven't met our full expec­tations,'' Sullivan said. "We have room to improve." 
PW captain Mo Spring, though disappointed her team couldn't pull ofT a perfect run, is confi­dent going into the playoffs based on the Purple Weasel's performance in October and November of last season. 
"We're a pretty strong return­ing team, so we're not going to change anything drastic in the playoffs," Spring said. "We just 
see WALSH/page 21 
MEN'S INTERHALL 

Green Wave awaits Stanford 
By KATE DONLIN, BILL 

BRINK and COLIN REIMER  
Sports Writers  
The stage is set for a defensive  
showdown  this  weekend,  as  
Stanford looks to upset top-seeded  
Fisher in the opening round of the  
playoffs.  
The Griffins enter the postseason  
with an overall record of 2-2, while  
Fisher's consistent domination on  
both sides of the ball made it the  
only undefeated team in the Blue  
division.  
"For the most part, I am happy  
about our team's efforts," Stanford  PHIL HUDELSON!The Observer  
A Fisher running back looks for a hole Oct. 1.1 against Siegfried.  
see WAVE/page 21  Fisher plays Stanford at 1:30 p.m. Sunday on Stepan Fields.  



en LLI 

f' 1--(.) 
z 

~ 
.,,,f 1:1: :3
r 
Y!. 
.fl' 
·' 
,. ' 
== 
A-te 
en 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Top-ranked Notre Dame cruises into postseason 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
After sprinting through its non-conference and Big East regular season 18-0-1 as the nation's only undefeated team, No. 1 Notre Dame begins the third leg of coach Randy Waldrum's professed four­phase journey when it hosts its Big East quarterfinal 1 
p.m. Sunday at Alumni Field as the top seed. 
The Irish welcome fourth­seeded St. John's (10-4-4, 5-3­
3 Big East) after they beat fifth-seeded Seton Hall 2-0 Thursday in the first round of the tournament. 
St. John's is one of only four Big East teams Notre Dame hasn't faced this year, along with Syracuse, South Florida and Marquette. Since the Irish did not play St. John's last year, either, Waldrum and the staff are still waiting to look at tapes of the Red Storm today to break down their style. 
Waldrum said he will be 
see STORM/page 22 

NO VOLLEYBALL 
SMC SOCCER 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 
NCAA FOOTBALL

SMC VOLLEYBALL
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish travel to 
Irish look to three-
Belles ready to 
Virginia Tech 24

Adrian at Saint
Hornets at Belles 
compete in final meet of 
Cincinnati and 
peat as Big East 
Mary's 
Clemson 7 

champions this 
the season at the MIAA
Louisville for two 
Tech's Brandon Ore
Fourth-seeded Belles 

weekend in Boston. 
championships in Alma, 
crucial weekend Big 
rushes for 203 yards and

Belies play final
play Kalamazoo in first 
Mich . 
East matches. 
two touchdowns. 

match of the year at
ever MIAA postseason 
home 11 a.m. Saturday.
tournament. 
page 18
page 18
page 20 
page 17

page 17
page 20 


. . 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 27, 2006 
Notre Dame can handle the option 
All of you fretting and turned some of the most With the option, Navy Enhada. sweating over Notre successful students and makes life interesting. If the option deceives that Dame's pitiful running leaders in this nation into Former Notre Dame and defensive end and a couple game against UCLA, calm winners on the football current New York Giants of linebackers, it can slice down. field. defensive end Justin Tuck defenses apart. Think 
All of you 
It just won't happen this said it's the toughest 1990s Nebraska. obsessing weekend in offense he's If the defense is disci­about Baltimore. ever prepared plined and fast enough to whether Notre Dame Without the option, Navy for. It's also track down slower ball car­Brady Quinn has superior riers, the option isn't very
would be stuck in f-AA the m?st 
can steal the speed and • beauttful. effective. Think what will Heisman superior size nowhere near the bowl The idea is happen for the Irish Trophy away and plays game they're almost simple -against Navy Saturday. from Troy with its fair Many of those planning to
Mike Gilloon assured this year. With ~orce ~n
Smith, share of intel­. mtentwnally attend Saturday's contest in lighten Sports Writer ligence as the optwn, Navy makes unblocked Baltimore hope .to see Navy up. well. life interesting. defensive end knock off Notre Dame for 
And those of you -you And that's to choose the first time since the know who you are -wor­what makes between tack­Midshipmen had a Heisman ried that Notre Dame won't this one-a ling a quar-winner at quarterback. But escape the service academy game that terback with with their own Heisman stretch of its schedule with­should be in Irish hands the ball veering toward him candidate calling signals, out a loss. chill out. well before the final 27 or a trailing running back. the Irish are too good. 
They won't lose to Air seconds -so much fun to If the end So why Force in a few weeks. They watch. chooses the bother buying certainly won't drop one at Why? quarterback, Why bother buying tickets to a home to Army. And the Because of two words and ideally he will tickets to a game Navy game Navy Irish won't lose to Navy. one offense -the option. pitch to the has no
has no chance to win?
Next year? Remember? running back chance to Maybe. But It's the same right before Because ifthe win? Saturday, system he's hit. If the Midshipmen cared Because if
The academies ­
with seniors Nebraska per­end goes the
about fat sports writers. 
and size to especially Navy -fected in the after the run­Midshipmen
they wouldn't suit up
spare, the love to outhit, outhustle mid-90s; the ning back, cared about famed win­same system the quarter­this Saturday. fat sports
and outsmart
ning streak Tony Rice ran back keeps writers, they over the opponents. for Notre the ball and wouldn't suit Midshipmen Dame's last heads upfield. up this Saturday, they won't end. national title; It's not supposed to mat­wouldn't hit so hard and 
It won't be the same sys­ter that the defensive end they certainly wouldn't run without a few bruises. The tem that gives the service is a quick 270-pounder the option. academies -especially academies the ability to named Victor Abiamiri. It's Navy -love to outhit, out­play major college football. not supposed to matter that The views expressed in hustle and outsmart oppo­Without the option, Navy the quarterback is a sec­this column are those of the nents. would be stuck in I-AA, ond-stringer with average author and not necessarily 
This philosophy has nowhere near the bowl weight, average height and those of The Observer. worked for Navy coach game they're almost a not-so-average name -Contact Mike Gilloon at Paul Johnson, who has assured this year. Kaipo-Noa Kaheaku-mgilloon@nd. edu 
game hype 

..You really have to play physical. fundamental, sound football 
when you·re playing a team Charlie Weis like Navy.,. Irish coach 
·Tm sure that was probably the number one priority in their football program. 'God. how are 

Paul Johnson

we going to beat 
1\T Midshipmen
1vavy.?.,, 
coach 


..You have to be doing your job on every single play. You slip up one play it•s going to be a touchdown. •• 
Tom Zbikowski Irish strong safety 
..Respect is the word that comes to mind when you see these 
guys. ... You have to look at them and tip Brady Quinn Irish


your cap. •• 
quarterback 



I
> ... ~ :>:'0!:1. f(. 
; ·:· .............;.;;;~~~:.:-~·:::~·::·. 


,.-------­
Friday, October 27, 2006 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 

an of promise 
D~fensive end Victor Abiamiri was a prep standout in Baltimore. Four years later, he's back to show how far he's come zvith the Irish. 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Editor 
Victor Abiamiri has made a 
name for himself. 
His attitude is fierce and point­
ed, his intelligence sharp and his 
football knowledge top notch. He 
draws double teams because one 
man simply isn't enough. 
NFL scoul'i drool when they see 
a 6-foot-4, 270-pound defensive 
end with the Irish senior defen­
sive end's foot speed and power. 
His body size and weight are per­
fect for the position, and what 
NFL teams see is upside -some­
thing people have always seen in 
him. 
A native of Randallstown, Md., 
a Baltimore suburb, Abiamiri 
returns to a home crowd for the 
contest Saturday following two 
games in which opposing quar­
terbacks often found themselves 
looking at dirt, then turning up to 
see a white "95" bulging from a 
deep blue jersey. 
But Abiamiri didn't first pick up any of his coveted traits from a whistle-blowing drill sergeant or a pull-your teach coach. Abiamiri's path to football star­dom started with a head coach and defensive coordinator who had a simple mantra: "Fifty men working together, loving each other, cannot be beat." 
Growing up Gilman 
Abiamiri and Ambrose Wooden never met until August of 1999. They've gone to school together ever since. 
Wooden, now an Irish corner­back, remembers when he first encountered the hulky Abiamiri in football practice at the begin­ning of their freshman year at Gilman School on Baltimore's northern edge. 
"He was probably the same size he is now, maybe 40 pounds lighter. I saw him and he said he dunked in fifth grade," the 5-foot­11 Wooden says with a smile. "I was like, wow, I can't even dunk now." 
The two would spend the next four years under the tutelage of two men -Gilman head coach Biff Poggi and volunteer defensive coordinator Joe Ehrmann. The two have a unique coaching style that stresses brotherhood over competition. 
Their focus on teaching players how to become men -is so dif­ferent than other programs that Abiamiri calls Gilman "probably the only place in the world" to get the kind of coaching he did. And he soaked it up. 
Abiamiri says Poggi and Ehrmann have been "father fig­ures" to him. 
"They're probably some of the best influences I've had in my live," he says. "They, and my own father, turned me from a boy into a man." 
Wooden remembers his team­mate Abiamiri starting at safety as a freshman, all 6-foot-4 and 215 pounds of him roving in the secondary, ready to make a play. The big man was then known as "Ookie Rock" -a nickname Wooden says comes from Abiamiri's dancing. Abiamiri jok­ingly said he will haunt Wooden 
down the sideline. "We were going crazy," Wooden says. 
He remembers the "big and goofy" Abiamiri looking toward the end zone. 
"He didn't make it," Wooden says with a chuckle. 
The personality switch 
His teammate would become a defensive end with a mean streak that stands in stark contrast from his otherwise soft, intelligent per­sona. Off the field, he seems more peace-seeker than quarterback hunter. 
Brady Quinn laughs about Abiamiri's Jekyll and Hyde. "Vic," he says, is "one of those guys that's a lot of fun to be around." 
"It's tough to put into words," the Irish quarterback said with a smile. "He's one of those big, mean guys that really doesn't like to be mean. I think that's why he kind of likes playing football because he's able to go out there on the field and dish it out on the field and be happy." 
For Abiamiri, it's simple. \Vhen he's on the football field, he's looking to scare 

TIM SULLIVAN!The Observer 

Irish defensive end Victor Abiamiri, right, leaps over a pile to ensure that Stanford quarterback Trent Edwards, left, doesn't escape a tackle in a 31-10 win over the Cardinal Oct. 7. 
opponents. Off the ..He·s one of those ing their two years field, he's the man together at Notre
big, mean guys that

Poggi and Ehrmann Dame.
really doesn •t like

helped form. "He came in and He says he applies to be mean. I think was about six-four, the lessons he 250 as a freshman
that•s why he kind

learned from Poggi -about the same
of likes playing

and Ehrmann "in size I was as a j un­the locker room, in football. , ior," Tuck said. "He the dining hall, in told me he would the dorms." compete with me
Brady Quinn 

Abiamiri says he for playing time." 
Irish quarterback 

makes sure any That year alone, 
earned that on the field, with 17 career sacks, including six this season and eight in 2005. 
Even before he had any, Abiamiri was confident. Just ask former Irish weak side end and current New York Giant Justin Tuck, who Abiamiri says took him 
under his wing dur­
teammates who are upset or down know they can turn any situation around with hard work. 
Yet when inches away from an offensive tackle before the ball is snapped, all he's trying to do is intimidate. 
"I actually don't think it's that tough to change your mentality," he said. 
Gilman School's motto is simple: "Turning Boys of Promise into Men of Character." 
Abiamiri has always had a lot of promise. 
The position switch 
Poggi and Ehrmann moved Abiamiri to the defensive line after his freshman season, a move that Baltimore high school foot­ball would never forget. As a jun­ior, he had 17 sacks. As a senior, he recorded 12 more and threw in an interception, for old time's sake. 
For colleges across the country, he was the defensive line stud of his graduating class. 
"He was everyone's No. 1 at defensive end out of high school," said Tom Lemming, a longtime national recruiting analyst. "Basically every school in the country was going after him." 
After a long recruiting period and at least one report of recruiters trying so desperately to get Abiamiri that they flouted NCAA rules, the academics at Notre Dame lured one of the nation's top prizes to South Bend in 2003. 
"Teams saw his size and speed," Lemming said. "He had 
Tuck had 13.5 sacks. Nonetheless, Abiamiri saw significant action. The freshman started five games and played in all 12; he registered 22 tackles, including four for losses, and a sack. 
'There arc two things you have to be to play as a freshman -tal­ented and smart," Tuck said. "And he was both." 
Eye on the motor man 
More than 40 games after Abiamiri first suited up for Notre Dame, pro teams from across the country are once again looking at his promise and potential. 
Projected by some to be a first­round pick, Abiamiri is playing under the careful eyes of scouts. Like he did during his senior year of high school by announcing his commitment after the season fm­ished, Abiamiri is pushing any NFL Draft talk aside. 
Like every other Irish player ­and most in college football -he says it would be too much of a dis­traction. Thinking about the weekly jumps and bumps from analyst'i like ESPN's Mel Kiper would be overwhelming. 
It would keep him from his mental preparation, he says ­keep him from doing what he needs to do to help his team win now. 
And one of the best ways Abiamiri can help his team now is by freeing up other Irish defend­ers when he faces double teams. 
"Victor has put himself in a position now where teams ­when we go against anybody, they know where Victor is," Irish comes from big games, like the two he's had against Stanford. In 2005, he recorded four sacks in the fmal game of the regular sea­son. This Oct. 7, he added anoth­er three against the Cardinal. 
"All you can do is help yourself by focusing on the game at hand every week," he says. 
If Abiamiri stays as focused as he has been, it'll help the Irish in the short term and -come April -pad his wallet. 
After his performance against Stanford and then his sack and two more quarterback hurries against UCLA last Saturday, Kiper has Abiamiri shooting up to No. 10 in his "Big Board" list of the best draft prospects in the nation. 
Weis credits much of Abiamiri's success to his ever-churning legs and forceful body push -and that, the coach says, is something NFL scouts love about the senior just as much as his physique. 
"The one thing I do know about [Abiamiri] that I didn't know when I got here is that he has a very, very, very high motor that goes with his athletic ability," Weis said. "There are a lot of peo­ple with athletic ability that don't have a high motor [but] he goes high on every play. It presents a problem week in and week out for any [offense] that we go against." 
The home option 
Abiamiri will try to be a prob­lem once again Saturday in an important game for the senior. He says he managed to get 15 to 20 tickets for family members in the Baltimore area to see his first ­and only -collegiate game in the area. 
"It's awesome to be able to go home and play in front of family and friends," he said. 
But against an option team, his job is a little different. 
He will have to replace his bull rushes and swims with mental focus and sharp discipline. As offensive tackles block toward the center of the line and fullbacks come full-steam-ahead toward the corner, Abiamiri's task will be much different. 
"We might not even block ol' Victor, much less double him," Navy coach Paul Johnson said Tuesday. "We will read him on the option." 
That means Abiamiri will be forced to wait out Midshipmen quarterback Kaipo-Noa Kaheaku­Enhada as he scurries to the cor­ner. If Abiamiri takes the wrong angle or bites at the wrong time, Navy could run right through the Irish defense. 
"It's the most frustrating offense in all of football," Tuck said, glad no NFL teams run it against the Giants. "You need a lot of mental preparation." 
Abiamiri thinks he has that. He thinks he'll be able to stick to his man on every play and be patient. 
For most defensive ends, that patience is tough. But for one who's used to being as calm off 
the  field  as  he  is  fearsome  
between t he sideli nes  -maybe  
not.  

Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
by the numbers 
Consecutive games between Notre Dame and Navy, making this 
the longest intersectional series in the nation. 
80 

42 
Consecutive victories the Irish have had during the series. A win 
Saturday will extend the streak to 43. 
locations where the Irish and Midshipmen have faced off -South Bend, Baltimore, Chicago, Cleveland, East Rutherford (N.J.), 
9

Orlando, Philadelphia, Raljon (Md.) and Dublin, Ireland. 
1961 last time the Irish lost a game played on Oct. 28. Average rushing yards Navy racks up per game. 
316.6 

(called "Mo" since childhood) for long arms and long legs, and he coach Charlie Weis said. "I think remembering it. was explosive oil' the ball." that he's drawn some special One day "Ookie Hock" inter­Playing defensive end, a tough attention." 119.3 Average rushing yards Notre Dame gives up per game. cepted a pass and started running image can help. too. i\biamiri has A lot of that special attention 
Friday, October 27, 2006

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Notre Dame • 
Fighting Irish 

Record: 3-1 AP: 12 Coaches: 14 
Charlie Weis second season at Notre Dame 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
career record: 
15-4 
at Notre Dame: 

15-4 
Charlie Weis against 
head coach Navy: 1-0 
Roster 

No. Name Pos. Ht. 1 D.J. Hord WR 6-1 2 Darrin Walls DB 6-1 3 Darius Walker RB 5-11 4 Demetrius Jones QB 6-4 5 Rhema McKnight WR 6-1 6 Ray Herring DB .6-0 7 Craig Cardillo K 6-0 8 Raeshon McNeil DB 6-0 9 Tom Zbikowski DB 5-11 10 Brady Quinn QB 6-4 11 David Grimes WR 6-0 12 Zach Frazer QB 6-4 13 Evan Sharpley QB 6-2 14 Bobby Renkes K 6-0 15 Leo Ferrine DB 6-0 17 Geoffrey Price p 6-3 17 Dan Gorski QB 6-3 18 Chinedum Ndukwe DB 6-2 19 George West WR 5-8 20 Terrail Lambert DB 5-11 21 Barry Gallup Jr. WR 5-11 22 Ambrose Wooden CB 5-11 23 Chase Anastasio WR 6-2 23 W. David Williams DB 5-10 24 Brandon Erickson WR 6-0 25 Munir Prince RB 5-10 26 Wade lams DB 5-9 26 Travis Thomas RB 6-0 27 David Bruton DB 6-2 27 John Lyons RB 6-1 28 Kyle McCarthy DB 6-0 29 Jashaad Gaines DB 6-0 29 Jake Richardsville WR 6-0 30 Mike Richardson DB 5-11 31 Sergio Brown DB 6-1 32 Luke Schmidt RB 6-3 33 Nate Whitaker K 5-9 34 James Aldridge RB 6-0 35 Ashley McConnell RB 6-0 35 Tim Kenney DB 6-0 36 Dex Cure RB 6-1 37 Junior Jabbie RB 5-11 
38 Nick Possley WR 6-1 39 Ryan Burkhart K 5-11 39 Kevin Bnx>ks TE 6-2 40 Maurice Crum, Jr. LB 6-0 41 Scott Smith LB 6-3 42 Kevin Washington LB 6-1 42 David Costanzo WR 5-9 43 Eric Maust p 6-1 43 Mike Anello DB 5-10 44 Asaph Schwapp RB 6-0 45 Kris Patterson WR 5-11 45 Carl Gioia K 5-10 46 Michael Planalp TE 6-4 46 Kyle Charters LB 5-11 47 Mitchell Thomas LB 6-3 48 Steve Quinn LB 6-2 49 Matt Augustyn FB 6-3 49 Toryan Smith LB 6-0 50 Dan Santucci OL 6-4 51 Dan Wenger OL 6-4 52 Joe Brockington LB 6-1 53 Morrice Richardson LB 6-2 54 Anthony Vernaglia DB 6-3 55 Eric Olsen OL 6-4 56 Nick Borseti LB 6-4 57 Dwight Stephenson DL 6-2 59 Chris Steward OL 6-5 60 Casey Cullen DL 6-1 61 J.J. Jansen LS 6-3 63 Jeff Tisak OL 6-3 64 Dan Chervanick DL 6-1 66 Derek Landri DL 6-3 68 Ryan Harris OL 6-5 69 Neil Kennedy DL 5-11 71 Bartley Webb OL 6-7 72 Paul Duncan OL 6-7 73 Matt Carufel OL 6-5 74 Sam Young OL 6-7 75 Chris Frome DL 6-5 76 Bob Morton OL 6-4 77 Michael Turkovich OL 6-6 78 John Sullivan OL 6-4 79 Brian Mattes OL 6-6 80 Richard Jackson WR 6-3 81 Darrin Bragg WR 6-1 82 Robby Parris WR 6-4 83 Jeff samardzija WR 6-5 84 Will Yeatman TE 6-6 86 Mike Talerico TE 6-5 87 Marcus Freeman TE 6-3 88 Konrad Reuland TE 6-6 89 John Carlson TE 6-5 90 John Ryan DL 6-5 91 Travis Leitko DL 6-7 92 Derrell Hand DL 6-3 93 Paddy Mullen DL 6-5 94 Justin Brown DL 6-3 95 Victor Abiamiri DL 6-4 96 Pat Kuntz DL 6-2 97 Kallen Wade DL 6-5 98 Trevor Laws DL 6-1 
NOTRE DAME 2006 Schedule  
Sept. 2 atGT-W Sept. 9 PSU-W Sept. 16 MICIHGAN-L Sept. 23 atMSU-W Sept. 30 PURDUE-W Oct. 7 STANFORD-W Oct. 21 UCLA-W Oct. 28 at Navy Nov. 4 UNC Nov. 11 at Air Force Nov. 18 ARMY Nov. 25 at USC  

Wt. YR 192 so 175 FR 208 JR 202 FR 212 SR 189 so 170 SR 175 FR 203 SR 227 SR 170 so 215 FR 207 so 195 SR 186 JR 186 SR 196 so 219 SR 179 FR 188 JR 175 FR 197 SR 203 SR 170 JR 178 JR 175 FR 188 JR 215 SR 187 so 205 SR 189 so 195 FR 180 so 193 SR 184 FR 230 FR 165 FR 209 FR 247 SR 180 SR 215 FR 190 JR 

COACHING QUARTERBACKS
183 JR 185 FR 230 FR 220 JR 

Charlie Weis admitted Brady Quinn once again
234 so 
making some questionable 

led his team to a dramatic 170 so 
231 so 
calls and decisions to go for it comeback in the final

180 FR 180 so 
on fourth down against moments of the UCLA 

250 so 
UCLA. Against a well­game. But his efficiency is 

174 so 183 SR 
coached Navy team, bad not limited to the final 

230 so 
decisions could lead to anoth­minutes of a contest.

195 JR 240 SR 
er bam-burner for the Irish. 

Quinn had a quiet day
220 JR 
But then again, Wcis still is against the Bruins before

220 SR 230 FR 
the premier playcaller in the final drive, going 24­

290 SR 
college football. 

for-42 with a touchdown.
285 FR 212 SR 228 FR 221 JR 290 FR 
McKnight,  Carlson,  Walker  
and  Griines,  who  had  a  
career-high  eight  catches  
against UCLA.  

Kaipo-Noa Kaheaku-Paul Johnson has gotten
238 SR 
Navy closer to beating the Enhada has started one

252 SR 340 FR 
Irish on more occasions game in his career, losing

238 SR 242 JR 

than any other coach of 
34-0 to Rutgers. Kaheaku­305 so 
the Midshipmen since Enhada replaced Brian

259 SR 263 SR 
Kennedy was president. 

Hampton, who broke his leg 
288 SR 
Johnson manages the in Navy's 24-17 win over Air

260 JR 290 FR 
offense as a hybrid Force Oct. 14. 

292 so 
between the run-and­Kaheaku-Enhada has

288 FR 292 FR 
shoot and the wishbone, completed just 4-of-11 

268 SR 
maximizing the potential throws and is rushing for

292 SR 290 so 
of Navy's smaller players. 

2.1 yards per carry. 
298 SR 285 SR 200 FR 
After tough losses, both Weis said he was

192 JR 185 FR 
Johnson and Weis have said 


impressed with Kaheaku­
216 SR 
they don't accept the notion Enhada's play in Nary's

250 FR 
245 JR 

spring game, but few first­
245 SR 239 FR 
team quarterbacks in the 
255 SR 
country compare favorably to 
240 FR 270 SR 
Brady Quinn, let alone back­
301 so 
ups. Quinn runs a much dif­
265 FR 247 JR 
ferent offense than Kaheaku­
260 SR 
Enhada, but he runs it well, 
267 so 220 FR 
especially late in games. 
293 SR 

Irish experts 

Mike Gllloon 
Editor in Chief 
IRISH PASSING 

The biggest problem in the Irish passing game right now is the offensive line. But if Notre Dame wins the battle in the trenches, Quinn has five legitimate targets Navy must cover -Samardzija, 
Rashawn King and Keenan little, Navy's starting corners, are 6-foot and 5-foot-11, respectively. 
They both have good speed and the ability to flock to the ball, but only Uttle has an interception. Of Navy's three other picks, two have been by free safety Jeremy McGown and the last by backup safety DuJuan Price. 
With all their targets, the Irish may have the best receiving corps in the nation. McKnight and Samardzija are tied for second on the all-time Notre Dame receptions list (143), and Darius Walker leads all Irish receivers (92). With Grimes' performance against UClA, Quinn adds yet another reliable target. 
COR~ERBACK Utt~ 
King 
. . iJUfSIDE ~~~ 
UNERACKt:R If' 
'*"\~~t/ 
,~l;  ..  -, ,.-;~;·· . 1': ..  
-~~  /  •.  
..  
,.  
' ~·'  </ i\: ·.-J. 

I. 
<:STRONG SAFETY ··. Mll~s
/h j Buffin 
r{j! [ t FREf SAFETY 
·~~~own
·-:-:.J): 
~ 
... 

IRISH RUSHING 


Notre Dame had some serious problems in its ground game against UClA. The offensive line didn't open holes for Darius Walker, and ·walker wasn't able to make anything happen. The Irish fmished with 41 net rushing yards and just 76 yards gained, discounting the Bruins' five sacks. 
Navy switches between a 3-4 and a 4-3 at times, but the Midshipmen linemen are always fairly light. Left end Tye Adams is 6-foot-3 and 225 pounds, nose guard Larry Cyic is 6-foot-2 and 280 pounds and right end John Chan is 6-foot-1 and 249 pounds. They are fast and can shoot gaps with solid efficiency. 

As much as Navy coach Paul Johnson (and most 
The Irish need to start getting some respect in of college football) would love to see the the national rankings. And given Weis' reaction to Midshipmen break Notre Dame's 42-game win Notre Dame's drop from No. 10 to No. 11 after streak in the series, it just won't happen. Not \vith beating UClA, concerns regarding the postseason this receiving corps and not after a close win over are beginning to creep into his mind. The Irish UQA that must have scared the Irish into taking front seven continue to gel, and there are some every team seriously. Navy's ground game will big double digit tackle games for· the linebackers keep the clock moving and the scoring low, but against a tough run-based offense. Quinn's four Brady Quinn's ability to score at will against the touchdowns lead the offense as Troy Smith's
Bob Griffin 
Navy secondary ensures Notre Dame of No. 43. Heisman Trophy begins slipping from his grasp. FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 28 Asst. Managing FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 42 Navy 7 Editor Navy 14 
Friday, October 27, 2006 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

Navy 
Midshipmen Record: 5-2 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
Paul Johnson fifth season at Navy
Navy Midshipmen 
career record: 95-33 at Navy: 33-23
Navy 2006 Schedule  
Sept. 2 ECU-W Sept. 9 U. MASS.-W Sept. 16 at Stanford -W Sept. 23 TULSA-L Sept. 30 atUConn-W Oct. 7 at Air Force -W Oct. 14 RUTGERS-L Oct. 28 NOTRE DAME Nov. 4 at Duke Nov. 11 at Eastern :Michigan Nov. 18 TEMPLE Dec. 2 ARMY  

against Notre Paul Johnson Dame: 0-4 head coach 
Roster 

No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 1 Blake Carter CB 5-11 184 ff{ 2 oey .Taylor 5 6-0 18'1 50
5()

2 arOd B ant ~~ 5-10 187 
3 ~ rian H?'mP.ton 208 SR 
4 Keenan Little ~IS g:n 195 SR 
5 ferQJUY Miles 5 6-2 18'1 fR 
6 Dell Kobmson 5 5-11 2lltJ 6 G1tZil}gler OB 6-0 1S5 ~ 
7 Re 'e Cl!:mpbell SB 5-6 165 
7 Iw_uji CB 6-1 173 ~ 
remY, McGown CWB/5 5-11 189 SR 
~ [ mesDrvden R 6-3 194 FE 
att Hwhiston 206
9 §>J-B ~61
9 Greg Garden 190 ~~ 
10 DaVId Dawson 162 
K. Kaheaku-Enhada 188 ~
Si ~}1

lr Michael SP._cciale 215 FR 
11 Ketric Buf!in ~ 5-7 165 
13 Toe Tzylor 198 ~ 
14 Troy Goss 206 
P.}{

14 f.P. 'Sniezek ~B ~l 190 
15 Clay Carter 209 SR 
16 M~tt Garcia-Bragiel CB 5-8 186 SR 
17 lett Deliz s 5-11 194 
17 Cory Finnerty 1A2 f~ 
18 Rashawn Kirlg t~ ~6° 1~5 so 
19 Leif Walrath K:!P 5-9 180 SR 
20 Scott Oswald 5B 5-11 207 fR 
21 Trey Hines SB 5-9 208 SR 21 Cass~E Nichols s 6-0 194 so 
22 Ton Haberer LB 6-1 216 FR 
22 Ad m Ballard FB 6-1 :L23 
23 Kerwin Scott CB 5-7 186 ~~ 
23 Mike Mathews WR 6-1 174 FR 
24 Frank Rizzo SB 5-9 171 FR 24 Gre~Sudderth WR 6-2 203 
25 Du an Price s 5-11 214 !& 
25 Lu e La..~tera s6 'i-9 170 FR 
2f> Shun Wl'lite SB S-9 187 so 
28 Scott Simpson CB 5-9 165 FR 
28 Zerbin Sittgleton SB 5-9 182 
29 Ross Ppgp1sil LB 6-0 205 t~ 
29 SB 5-9 182 so
Gre~Shittego
31 Gre Veteto p 6-1 175 
31 Am ld Taylor OLB 5-11 215 ¥~ 
12 St\i'P. en Ttipp LB 5-11 191 FR 
J2 Ed<l1e Marttn 177 SR 
195 33 Kevil'\ S der 187 so 
33 ~R g:Jr FR
Bobbv~le 
34 Matt Ha FB ~}6 210 SR 
34 Matt Nechak OLB 6-4 221 FR 
1~ l!yron McCoy SB 5-10 181 SR
35 Craig_Shaefet LB 6-2 202 fR 
3f> Eric Kettani FB 6-1 220 so
MIDSHIPMEN MIDSHIPMEN 
37 Ethan Gouge K 6-0 161 SR 
37 Darius Terry CB 5-7 1111 FR 
38 Ram Vela. S!i: 5-'l 182 fR
PASSING RUSHING SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
ichael Walsh 
~~ 0('\f -sullen t<' ~to m 
40 ~ 1Jn Woo.b FB 5-11 215 Pk 
40 David Mahoney OLB 5-9 219 SR 
41 Scott Reider LB 6-0 ~11! so
Navy doesn't pretend to After the loss of Brian Geoff Price has had some 
Notre Dame has won 

41 Jack Hatcher FB 5-11 1<.J'i FR 42 Ricky Pyfrom FB 5-10 205 SR
have a lethal passing attack, Hampton, the Midshipmen wobbly punts lately, but he 
this annual contest 42 
42 Brian Smith OLB 6-1 2]() f'R 
43 Patrick Shannon FB 5-11 211 so
but it can catch teams off­ground game suffered, but still averages over 45 
straight times. The Irish 
43 JyeAd£ms DE 6-3 225 SR 44 Ke~in Campbell FB 5-11 :'00 FR 
<.j()

guard. Slot back Reggie Navy still enters the contest yards a boot. The Irish have been able to do what 
44 C t Sovie LB 5-11 201 
Ty rTidwell 224 SR
Campbell leads the team in averaging 5.4 yards a carry. 
punt return and kickoff they need in order to win, 
~ l<l.n Meredith 8l:R ~j 225 ]']{ 
46 Nic Jesse FB 5-11 201'>
receptions (eight) and yards After Hampton, ·fullback 
47 foroan Reagan CB 5-9 1110 ~
return games have been no matter how late they 
48 Matt Oberllinder LS 6-2 252 ]{ 
im McMenamin LB 6-0 "'"'0 ~ R
(124). The Midshipmen's Adam Ballard is the leading 
less than mediocre this 
have done that. Brady 
~ Joe Cylc LB 5-11 22s SR 
50 Austin Milke OT 6-3 231 FR
best way to throw the ball rusher for Navy, with 600 year. Ryan Burkhart still 
Quinn carries a certain 
51 Anthony Piccioni LB 5-B 212 SR 
51 fdf Lenar OT 6-6 21i9 FR
against the Irish will be roll­yards on just 104 carries. 
has work to do on kickoffs, 
aura about him, and it 
Curtis Bass OG 6-1 268 FR 
~~ Jordan Eddington OLB 6-0 FR
Slot back Reggie Campbell and any time Carl Gioiaout option passes that draw 
rubs off on the team. 
53 Alex Home LB 6-0 ~B so 
53 Josh Meek OT 6-1 260
the safeties toward the line is the most explosive back comes out for a field goal, 
They've survived road 
54 Matt Wimsatt 6-1 229 
David Brown §86 6-3 275 ~i
of scrimmage. 
with a 9.1-yard average. 
it's a question mark. 

games so far this season. 
~ Osci Asante 6-1 281 FR 
55 lrv Spencer 241 
56 ford<ln Young, g~B ~ 210 
~i

56 Richard Mar5hall 230
Navy has lost just onceTerrail Lambert overtook 
Navy place kicker Matt 
57 Rob Caldwell B t8 229 SR
Notre Dame's front seven 
57 Ryan Burke 6-3 280 FR
in consecutive games
Ambrose Wooden for the 
Harmon has eight 
58 Peter Guidera ~ 6-2 247 FR
had its best game of the 
58 !;1n Alvarado 234
since Paul Johnson 
59 ke T~nuta bits tr 216 M~
No. 1 spot at field corner, 
touchbacks and five field
year against UCLA. 
60 ch Gallion 6-2 SR 
...
became head coach. The 
61 esse Scheff 6-2 ~
even though Wooden is goals -all shorter thanInside linebacker Maurice 

62 Joe Breaux ~ T 6-0 24" ¥~ 62 Andy Lark FR
Midshipmen are 11-1
healthy and cleared to play. 
40 yards -this season. 
~Z5

Crum had eight tackles, 
63 Antron Harp~r -~1 
64 Michael Vort Hargen 266
avenging losses in the lastThat helped the Irish, as Reggie Campbell iswhile his outside counter­
I ~1

65 Sander Gossard 249 ~ 
66 Paul Bridgers 271
four years, and they willLambert's second-quarter 
averaging a solid 26.5
parts, Joe Brockington and 
67 PenetekoSb Peau 6-1 276 t~ 
67 Ryan Roeling 6-2 287 SR
have the support of a
interception kept UCLA yards per kickoff returnTravis Thomas, each had 
68 R1cky Moc·re 6-4 266 so 
69 mes Rossi 6-1 269 SR
vocal, enthused crowd
from building momentum. 
for good field position,seven. 
70 lSh Novotrw 6-4 282 so 71 ~eyn Ka@.iKo ~ 5-11 265
that nearly helped themAgainst a run-heavy team, and Jason Tomlinson hasThe Irish defensive line 
DE !:\\

71 Mike McClarin 6-3 
72 Anthony Gaskins OG 6-1 ~
pull off an upset in
the Irish secondary will 
a 7. 5-yard punt return 
72 B<1yard Roberts DE 6-2 210 73 Ctfad Pete~n ~
also combined for four 
266
RJ,_TL 6-4

Baltimore in 2002.
seldom be tested. 
average. 

74 BenGabbar 300
tackles for loss. · 

75 Andrew M inn 0¥ t1 247 ~ 
75 Andrew Burger DE 6-3 230 FR 

76 Joe Person 252 SR 77 Sean Kearney 8t ti 269 SR
Notre Dame's only 
Notre DaNotre Dame has the clear 
77 lmModdox 242 
78 ordan Stt:phens ~~ ti 255
bright spot on special 
78 ~ole Smitn C 6-0 260 ri
advantage when Navy 
strugglin5.1fl'~~• 
79 Matt Pritchett OT 6-2 290 SR
teams is Price the Punter. 
80 Of Washin?;ton WR }10 R
well,
chooses to pass, but 
Nick H\i'nderson WR o--o l~ 
g~ J'yler Wa11;ner DE 6-3 233
While his boots canJohnson knows enough not 
··­
83 W1ll Scarre LB 6-4 224 
T.J. Thiel WR 6-0 18~
to rely on a passing game 
rs l~ph Proffitt WR 5-9
fr~~ ~.e~ ¥~~! " 

gacl\ Middleton
with his team. 
~ urtis Shaw ~'rP ~ li~ 
87 Jason Tomlfnson WR 6·1 208
ftm s 
c l fffi"R<IH'n

If the Irish stay aware of 
88 Artie Pauls DE 6-1 
89 J'yree Barnes
!13en onthe seldom throw, they 

90 Matthew Harmon f[r ~jo r~ 
90 Zach Weatherington 235
~vy's ee ose

should keep the Navy 
91 an Griffith DE 6-2 260 so 
92 ris Kuhar-Pitters DE 6-2 252
significant problem on alloffense in check" all 
il*Y. Hebert DE 6-1 246
§~ ~ ickAmos DE/NG 6-0 244
Notre Dame kicks.

Saturday afternoon. 
95 Jolm Chan DE 6-1 249 
96 Andf'\!W Tattersall DE 6-4 249 
97 David Wright 274 
98 Larry Cylc fj8 t~ 280 
I 




Forty-three. Notre Dame will make it 43 
All tradition aside -and it's great tradition ­straight wins against one of the most respected Navy is a solid and well-coached football team. programs in college football, even if not one of particularly compared to the Division I-AA the best. The Irish will run the ball a lot, as will schools and minor conference schools other Top-the Midshipmen, but neither team will have 25 teams have faced. Granted, the loss of 
Irish

outlandish averages on the ground. Brady Brandon Hampton hurt the Midshipmen, and this Quinn will throw for three touchdowns, and should be an easy win for the Irish. But the triple Notre Dame will cruise to an easy victory that option isn't an easy offense to defend, and Navy 
experts

stays relatively close. runs its with the best. The Irish will need to play 
Kate Gales 

hard for 60 minutes to post a respectable win. 
ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 35 Associate FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31
Sports Editor Navy 14 Sports Editor Navy 10 

t-­
~ 
~----~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Sizing up the Irish and Midshipmen 
-jNotre Dame 
I 


~Points Scored______~ 28.9 24.9 
I
I 
' 

22.7 20.6
Points.Allowed~--~~ 

Rushing Yards Allowed ..·.· ..·...·--~  119.3  128.9  
Passing.. Yards Gained.,----~··--=··· .. I  277.9  53.6  
~Passing Yards Allowed.~.........  213.4  219.3  


Friday, October 27, 2006 


NAVY 
RUSHING OFFENSE 
In the first quarter of Navy's last game against Rutgers, the Midshipmen lost quar­terback Brandon Hampton, throwing the offense into a state of disarray. After the 34-0 loss the Midshipmen had a bye week to adjust to quarterbacks Jarod Bryant and Kaipo-Noa Kaheaku-Enhada (above), who have both seen time calling signals. Hampton had been leading the team in rushing, but both players have the chance to excel in the triple option. Navy's best defense is a clock-controlling offense. 
NOTRE DAME 
RUN DEFENSE 
Joe Brockington (above) had a career­high seven tackles against UCLA, and the linebacking corps will need to step up against Navy to keep the offense off the field. The linebackers need to force the Midshipmen out of their comfort zone and into an offense that 
. depends more on the pass. The defensive line has been playing well lately, and if its strong play is backed up by run-stuffing line­backers the Navy offense won't have a chance. Hard tackling will ensure that Navy doesn't pound the ball for 60 minutes and will give the Irish offense chances to score. 

. . . ' ' " '\ . . 
Friday, October 27, 2006 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Linebackers link together through adversity 
After Thomas' injury, Brockington emerges as aforce with Crum 
By BOB GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
Predicting that a rib injury to linebacker Travis Thomas, which came in the final moments against Michigan State, would eventually yield some positives for Notre Dame's season might have been difficult to imagine four weeks ago. 
Of course, the pluses stem­ming from the injury had nothing to do with the late game hit itself -they had to do with what resulted from the hit. 
Notre Dame found its line-
backing corps. led the team with eight tack-
Because with Thomas les, while Brockington and injured, senior Joe Thomas each totaled seven. Brockington was thrown into "This year with Travis being the mix. And when a fairly inexperienced guy, Brockington played well just very athletic, enough to [Brockington] remain in the .. , got the opportu­lineup, the Irish I m sure that would be nity to play and coincidentall_Y a big positive for us as a played well-it 
found ~he .umt unit just have a core oif gave u~ the 
that will hkely • . opportumty to take them guys JUSt play together get them both through the end for a whole year and on the field," of the season. guys who·ve been Irish . coac.h 
T h o m a s Charlie We1s 
returned from around each other for said after prac­his injury a while.·· tice Wednesday. against UCLA Crum, who is and played the unques­a l o n g s i d e Maurice Crum tioned leader of Brockington -Irish linebacker the group sim-his backup ply because he heading into the has the most season -and second-year experience, said Wednesday starter Maurice Crum. Crum it's up to the coaches to 

decide who plays. He has con-Brockington on the weak side fidence in whoever plays and Thomas on the strong alongside of him, and credits side. Thomas, who switched all his teammates for being positions from running back prepared. to linebacker at the beginning 
But he's also pretty excited of the season, was again with the current situation -asked to move to the strong especially when side when he considering the returned from time remaining "This year with Travis his injury. for the group to being a fairly But that's just gel. Crum has a credit to two years of eli-inexperienced guy, Thomas' flexibil­gibility left just very athletic, ity and athleti­w h i I e [Brockington] got the cism -some­Brockington, . l d thing defensive 
who is Crum's opportunlty toP ay an coordinator Rick roommate on played well -it gave Minter compli­road trips, and us the opportunity to mented after Thomas each h b h h p r a c t i c e 
can return for a get t em ot on t e Wednesday. 
fifth year. field.,, "He's done a 
''I'm sure that nice job. He was 
would be a big Charlie Weis obviously a good 
positive for us running back as a unit, just Irish coach before he came have a core of over. He came guys just play together for a over in a time of need for us, whole year and guys who've and really responded well," been around each other for a Minter said. "My hat's off to while," Crum said Wednesday him." after practice. "I really think All three members of Notre that can be nothing but posi-Dame's newest linebacking tive for us." corps will be instrumental in 
But this isn't the first time stopping Navy's rushing Crum has played alongside attack Saturday. The Brockington, either. The two Midshipmen average 316.6 have history together on the yards per game on the ground scout team in 2004. and have six players with over Brockington laughed after 100 yards rushing on the sea-p r a c t i c e son. We d n e s d a y But with the 
recalling some "When we were on the recent produc­
of those stories. tion from the "When we scout team together, it Notre Dame were on the was pretty serious and linebackers, the scout team we took our job pretty Irish could be in 
together, it was . decent shape pretty serious serwus. We flew around this weekend and we took our and tried to put our hats against Navy. job pretty seri-on people.,, ·:The . big!?est 
o u s , " thmg Is Just Brockington being fonda­said. "We flew Joe Brockington mentally sound around and Irish linebacker and making sure tried to put our you are where hats on people. you're supposed 
"It's definitely kind of funny to be and Inot trying] to do looking back at it. If you were anybody else's job," Crum to tell me back then that we said. "Whatever your key is were going to be playing read that, make sure you can together I would say that take care of that first instead year, it was going to be a lot of of guessing." fun." 
The current lineup features Contact Bob Griffin at Crum in the middle, rgriffi3@nd.edu 
Notre Dame, Navy vying to dominate time of possession 
Irish are 1-1 when losing the ball for just 26:53, its "It's a little more one­touchdowns to take the lead
Time management 
time of possession and 5-0 lowest total of the season. dimensional when they keep for the first time in the game otherwise. · But Johnson wants to focus running for quarter and a and eventually clinch the
will be crucial factor 
With new rule changes on end results, not one statis­half, two quarters straight win.
in contest's outcome stopping time less, using time tic, no matter how much it and hit you with a pass that Irish quarterback Brady wisely is a crucial element works in his team's favor. comes out of nowhere," he Quinn said that efficiency addressed by Irish coach "When we are playing a said. "That's the thing that would be key against a team
By KATE GALES 
Charlie Weis and Navy coach team as talented as [Notre puts you to sleep and hits you who can control the clock. 
Associare Sports Editor 
Paul Johnson. Darnel you over the top "They have really short­"Clock management to me can't worry for a touch­ened the game with the type Time has been on both is very, very important," We is about all that down. Like I of offense they play and the
"You better try to do the
Notre Dame and Navy's sides said. "Getting a play in on stuff," he said. said before, it's way the rules are set up this
best you can when you
this season. time for the quarterback to "You better try all fundamen­year," he said. "So you know, 
The Irish and the call it in the huddle, go to the to do the best can do it. It·s not like we tals, you have you've got to go out there and Midshipmen hold a signifi­line of scrimmage and be able you can do can say, 'we are going to to keep doing be extremely efficient and cant advantage over their to run an operation -to me when you can your job and make every drive count." 
score, but we are going
opponents in time of posses­that's clock management." do it. It's not you can't fall Every drive -not just dra­
..

sion, contributing to 6-1 and Navy's run-focused offense like we can say, to take 22 plays and run asleep. matic game finishes like last 5-2 records, respectively. has allowed the team to 'we are going out the quarter to do it.,,, Although the week's three-play, 80-yard 
Navy's clock-chomping maintain an advantage in to score, but time of posses­winning drive against UCLA triple-option offense holds time of possession with sus­we are going to sion statistic is -counts to Weis, who said onto the ball for 32:56 each tained drives. But to Johnson, take 22 plays Paul Johnson telling, it isn't the time of the game is 
game, eighth in the nation. the ideas of managing time and run out the Navy coach the only factor always on his mind. The Irish come in at 32:17 are simplified into one goal­quarter to do that goes into "See. people always think of 
it. ... 

per game. scoring. determining clock management just at the 
Although wins and losses "When you are out there Irish safety Tom Zbikowski, wins and losses, as the Irish end of halves or at the end of aren't directly correlated to you have to try and score," he who had experience running proved a month ago. Notre the game," he said. "They this statistic, it does indicate said. "When they are out the option as a quarterback Dame's lowest time total of don't think about the man­how effectively a team uses there you have to try and get in high school. said that it's the season was against agement that happens its possessions. Navy is 1-1 in them off the field." hard to stay focused on teams Michigan State Sept. 23. The throughout the game." games where it lost the time Navy pulled out a 21-20 vic­that rely heavily on the run, Irish had the ball for just of possession battle, 4-1 in tory over Massachusetts on because it can exploit passes 3:41 in the fourth quarter, Contact Kate Gales at games it held the edge. The Sept. 9 despite holding onto more effectively. when they scored three kgales@nd.edu 
~­
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 27, 2006 
',· 
I: 
'' ~ .. 
E 
' 
' 
r 
!I 
!I ~ ' 
1 I 
'; 
} 


r--. 
·.~' R E: 


Come in to participating Cingular Wireless retail stores and get lightning-fast AT&T Yahoo!® High-Speed Internet 
Elkhart 189 WCounty Rd. 6, (In iront ofWai-Mort) Mishawaka/South Bend Also available at: tOpen Sunday 
(574) 262-3510t UniversitY Park Mall 
AT&T 1800) £> 13-9420 (locatt'd in the Food Court) 
/.···-· ·-,
(574) 24.3-!l069t 

~~~ @ RadioShack.. 
*Cingular also imposes monthly aRegulatory Cost Recovery Charge of up to $1.25 to help defray costs incurred in complying with State and Federal telecom regulation: State and Federal Universal Service charges; and surcharges for customer-based and revenue-based state 
..-..·-~--­....... -­

~----~·.o(,land local assessments on Cingular. These are not taxes or government-required charges. 
--~~­
.«4«f«·'·~--­
-~--­

Limited-time offer. Other conditions and restrictions apply. See contract and rate plan brochure for deta1ls. Subscriber must hve and have amailing address within Cingular's owned network coverage area. Up to $36 activation fee applies. Equipment price and availability may vary by market and may not be available from independent retailers. Earty Termination Fee: None if cancelled in the first 30 days; thereafter $175. Some agents impose aduitional fees. Sales tax calculated based on price of unactivated equipment. Rebate Debit Card: Prices of Motorola V365 phones before $50 mail-in rebate debit cards and Push to Talk service agreements are $159.99 and $69.99. respectively. Pnce of Motorola RAZR before $200 mail-in rebate debit card is $299.99. Price of Sierra Wireless 875laptopConnect card before $100 mail-in rebate debit card and unlimited data connect plan is $169.99. Allow 10-12 weeks for rebate debit card. Rebate debit card not available at all locations. Must be customer for 30 consecutive days. Must be postmarked by 12127/06. Unlimited Voice Services: Unlimited voice services are provided solely for live d between two individuals. Offnet minutes of use (includi unlimited services) on other carriers' networks ("offnet two consecutive months exceed your offnet allowance, · at its terminate service, deny your continued 




