
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Jenkins to address academic freedom 
Queer Film Festival, Vagina Monologues are starting points for discussion 
By MADDIE HANNA and MARY KATE MALONE 
New~ Wril~rs 
Univorsity l'rnsidnnt Father .John .Jnnkins will discuss the int1~rplay bntwenn academic frc-ndom and Notro Danw's Catholic character in th rt~n opn n­dialogue addrnsses nnxt wnnk, a decision spurred by 

Jenkins

rncnnt hnightnnnd dnbatn about the ()twnr Film Festival and Vagina Monologues. 
"Academic freedom is an essential value in any university community, and our Catholic character is essenlial to Notre Dame," Jenkins said in a state­ment Tuesday. "I want to address both these central val~ ues, and seek comment and dis­cussion from the University community. I bnlieve such dis­cussion is an important one for Notre Dame and Catholic higher ndueation in general." 
Jenkins will not make a policy announcement in favor or against certain productions dur­ing his addresses, but will sim­ply initiate dialogue, University spokesman Dennis Brown and vice president of Public Affairs and Communication Hilary Crnkovich said. 

Professors and students said they were encouraged by Jenkins' decision to speak pub­licly about two contentious and central aspects of the University's identity. 
James Collins, associate chair of the Film, Television and Theatre Department, whieh has traditionally co-sponsored the Queer Film Festival and Vagina Monologues, said the addresses have already built anticipation. 
''I'm delightnd he's giving the talk on where he stands on all of this. Right now I think clarifi­cation of when~ he stands in really important," Collins said. "A lot of people are imagining he's going to bn for or against it and he hasn't said anything one way or another. With pnople so polarized on this campus, each convinced that .Jenkins is on their sid.e, it is very useful for him to articulate where he stands." 
While the ()ueer Film Festival and Vagina Monologues -the former entering its third year at Notre Dame, the latter its fifth -have particularly polarized the campus, Brown said the two events would serve as examples rather than focal points in the address Jenkins will deliver to faculty on Monday, students on Tuesday and alumni on 
see JENKINS/page 4 

Off-campus student residences burglarized 
Locked doors, a/ann systems fail to stop winter break thefts 
l\y MARY KATE MALONE 
A.~siswn1 News Editor 
Snvnral off-eampus hrllls­ns 01:eupil~d by Notre Dame students wore burglarized or vandalized during Christmas brPak in a series ol' crimns that students said r:ausod serious damage to tlwir honws. 
Tnn studnnts Jiving at S25 East Washington St. esti­rnatml thn damagn to their I 0-bndroom house al about $10,000. Burglars rmtnrnd tlw house Doc. 27, stealing nvnryth ing from I>VI>s and 
sec THEFTS/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Timm hired as head of Mount Mary 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's Vice Presidnnt for Student Affairs Linda Timm announced last wnek she will leave the Collegn in June in order to assume tlw 
presidency at Mount Mary College in Milwau­kee, Wis. 
As a viee president at Saint Mary's for 11 years, Timm inter­


acted elosely Tlmm with stu­dents, overseeing various departments on campus including athletics and reere­ation, student activities, counseling and career devel­opment, health and wellnnss services and residenee lifn. 
"This is the next move in my life," Timm said of tho job change. "In lots of ways, this will be a new beginning for me -a new bnginning pro­fessionally and a new begin­ning personally." 
Timm began to consider thn possibility of a presidential position in recnnt years, she said, and was first contaeted by the Mount Mary search committee as a potential can­didate in late .July. Timm said that institution's mission as a Catholic women's liberal arts eollnge resonated with her from the very beginning. 
One of six candidates ini­tially intnrvinwed, Timm visit­od the Milwaukoe r:ampus in mid-Snptnmbnr wlwro she met with the search commit­tee -a body whieh ineludnd 
see TIMM/pagc 6 

College starts setnester day early 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
A.o;.~istaltl News l'.di10r 
Saint Mary's studrmts' win­tnr bmak r~amn to an abrupt end Monday wlmn they found thmnselvns sitting in a class­room on a day previously rr~snrwd for enrollment. pur­chasing books and sclwdule changes. 
Thn Collngn Acadnmie i\lliLirs Council votnd in April 2005 to rnsunw class on thn first Monday of' the spring 2006 SOIJlestnr and 11VI11'Y snnwstnr tlwrr~al'tnr. Tlw eoundl optnd to bngin a day 11arlinr in ordnr to aehievn a an nqual nwnting time hPI.wnon classns thai. convmw on Monday, Wndrwsday and 1-'riday and thosl' that nwt on 
sec CLASS/page 4 




Forn1er trustee pleads guilty to misdemeanor 
Observer Staff Report 
Former Notre Dame football captain and NFL Super Bowl winner Dave Duerson, who resigned from the University's 
Board  of'  Trustees  last  
February,  pleaded  guilty  
Tuesday  to  a  misdomeanor  

charge of domestic battery. 
Duerson, 45, of llighland Park, Ill., appeared Tuesday in tho traffic and misdemeanor division of' Superior Court in South Bfmd and plead11d guilty to 01111 of' four misdemeanor counts against him. 
The charges stemmed from an argument betwnen Dunrson and his wife, Alicia. that took place last February in their hotel room at the Morris Inn on the Notre Dame eampus, police said. The two were on eampus for the winter Board of' Trustees meeting. Duerson pushed his wife out the door of tlwir room and she hit the wall, and she was treated and rnleased from a local hospital, police said. 
Duerson agreed to plnad guilty to the domnstie battory eharge in return for thren otlwr counts against him lwing dis­missed. Catherine Wilson, a spokeswoman for St. .Joseph County Proseeu tor Mieh a rd Dvorak, told the Assoeiatnd Prns~. Tho formnr football star is selwdulnd to h11 snntnnend Mareh 14 and l'aens up to a ynar in jail and a $5,000 linn. 
see DUERSON/pagc 9 


Renters disturbed, but not surprised by recent break-ins 
By KATIE PERRY 
A~sistant News Editor 
Off-campus students victimized by burglaries during Christmas break said they were not sur­prised by the events ­just shocked they did not happen sooner. And some feared the erimes would increase already-inflamed tensions between Notre Dame students and the South Bend community. 
"I was feeling like we were going to get broken into, even during 
see SECURITY/page 8 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, January 18, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Obligatory resolution 
It's the beginning of a new semester, and also still the beginning of a new year. Although the festivities of New Year's Eve are in the past, for many people New Year's resolutions are very much a part of the present. laura Baumgartner 
It has only been about 17 days, give or Wzre Editor take a few hours, since these resolutions were made and I hope most of you can still honestly say that you are living up to yours. 
However, if you didn't choose to con­verge with the masses and resolve to improve your life in some way this year I think that's OK too. Based on my experiences, I haven't encountered many people who were able to sustain their goals for the New Year through­out the month of January, let alone the entire year. 
Personally, I don't even remember what my past resolutions may have been. This makes me fairly confident that I did not continue with my resolve to improve myself for very long. 
I think the problem with New Year's resolutions is that a lot of the time people don't really commit to them. They make up a resolution whether it's to start working out on a regular basis, to quit smoking, or to spend more time doing volunteer work not because they truly want to do these things but because they feel obligated too. 
New Year's resolutions are a tradi­tion that dates back to Babylonian times, and because they are still so popular in society today who wants to be the oddball who doesn't make one. However, if you really want to change something about yourself or your life, shouldn't you be able to do it any day of the year? 
Life is complicated enough as it is; do we really need to have the added pressure of New Year's and its dread­ed resolutions looming over our heads on top of all the daily stressors we encounter? 
If you really are dedicated to chang­ing yourself for the better or resolving to change something else that you think could use improvements and just need that extra push to get started, then I think New Year's was created for you. However, I don't think we should need a set day too encourage us to make changes. If you want to change something I think you should just go out and do it, take the initiative and start whenever you feel like it. 
There's no reason to wait until next year to make a resolution, so ifyou missed the deadline of midnight on New Year's Eve this year, don't worry about it, start today. 
I didn't start my resolution until returning to campus. In fact, I wasn't even going to make one simply because I couldn't think of anything that I thought I wanted to change. Once I had moved in and worked up an appetite after struggling with my luggage however, my resolution came to me.· 
I'm going to eat in the dining hall this semester. There will be no more spending money on snacks at Meijer or Target, no more ordering Jimmy John's at all hours of the day. I'm going to use the meal plan I paid for instead of spending extra money on food. 
I've been here for three days now and I've been to the dining hall three times. At least it's a step in the right direction. 
I hope you all find success with your resolutions as well. Good luck. 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaum01@2saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE BEST PART OF WINTER BREAK? 




Jeff Paone  Jorie Reger  Jon Kearney  
junior  junior  freshman  
Dillon  Welsh Family  Alumni  
"Watching The  "When my  "Hugging the  
Aristocrats. ,,  friend became  White Sox  
my friend with  World Series  
benefits. "  ,trophy.  

Airport becomes hot spot to tie the knot 
STOCKHOLM -A busy international airport may not seem like the most romantic setting for a wedding, but it is an increasingly popular venue for exchanging vows in Sweden. 
Last year, 488 couples tied the knot at Arlanda airport outside Stockholm, up from 348 in 2004. It was the second consecu­tive yearly increase, air­port spokeswoman Helena Miller said. 
The weddings took place in the airport chapel or, more commonly, in a VIP 
TODAY 
a:: 


Bill Buzaid Kevin Washington Brian Desplinter 
freshman freshman freshman Alumni Knott Hall Alumni 
,

"Frolicking in "The warm "Sobriety. 

the snow with Kearney. , 

room, where the bride and groom can check in their luggage, order champagne and catering, and when the ceremony is over, be driven straight up to the aircraft. 
Father traps himself In washer playing with kids 
SYDNEY, Australia-A man had to be rescued after becoming wedged in a washing machine while playing a game with his children, a newspaper reported Tuesday. 
A fire officer pulled Robin Toom, 38, out of the machine after Toom became trapped while 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
IJJ 
::J: 
~ 
IJJ 
3: 
....I 
ct 
(.) 






0 

HIGH 32 30 HIGH 43
..... 

LOW 28 25 LOW 38 
HIGH LOW 
46 38 
HIGH LOW 



HY PHAM/The Observer 
With Morrissey not having Internet or cable for the next couple of weeks during dorm installation, students have been forced to go elsewhere for their online needs. For most, like these two students Tuesday, the Internet refuge is the basement of Morrissey, where many cables line the hallway ready to be installed. 
OFFBEAT 
playing hide-and-seek, according to Sydney's Daily Telegraph. 

"I just hopped in there and couldn't even get the lid down and the kids came in and said, 'Ha, ha! We found you,"' Toom told the newspaper. 
Toom, of the Queensland city of Townsville, waited for an hour with his knees pressed to his chest before being rescued by local fire squad member Dave Dillon, the paper reported. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
weather.'' 
IN BRIEF 
The film "The Breakfast Club" will be shown Thursday at 11:55 
p.m. as part of the Brew and View at Legends. Free breakfast will be served. 
The Notre Dame Student Film Festival begins Friday at 7 p.m. in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The Festival will feature 12 short films made as class projects during the past year and will include dark come­dies and documentaries. 
Bill O'Connell's Chicago Skyliners, a swing band, will per­form Friday at 10 p.m. at Legends. 
The Saint Mary's swim team will compete against Kalamazoo College in its final home meet of the season Friday at 6:30 p.m. in Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
The Saint Mary's first year board is sponsoring Battle of the Bands 2006 Saturday at 6:30 
p.m. in the Saint Mary's Student Center. The event will feature Notre Dame bands "Somersaults," "Slap Bracelet Suicide," "Robbie Hazen," "Ryan Connaughton" and "Patrick the Unlikely Genius." Proceeds bene­fit Riley Hospital for Children. 
Tim Reynolds, a collaborator with the Dave Matthews Band, will perform at Legends Saturday at 10 p.m. NO/Saint Mary's/Holy Cross 10 required. 
Mission IMPROVable, a Chicago-based improv comedy group, will perform Saturday at 9 
p.m. in Washington Hall. Admission is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 


HIGH 44 
38 

LOW 26 
29 

Atlanta 61 I 44 Boston 32 I 10 Chicago 46 I 30 Denver 37 I 26 Houston 72 I 63 los Angeles 63 I 48 Minneapolis 33 I 28 New York 32 I 16 Philadelphia 31 I 20 Phoenix 58 I 42 Seattle 43 I 41 St. Louis 44 I 38 Tampa 68 I 44 Washington 42 I 32 
d 
Wednesday, January 18, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
University to honor Martin Luther King, Jr. 
By PETER NINNEMAN 
News Writer 
Notm Damn has not yot hold any campus nvents to honor Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, observed Monday, but it has plans to do so. In addition, University leaders also partiei­patnd in some community and ofl'-campus events for the holi­day. 
Hichard Pierce, chair of the University's department of 1\fricana studies and associate professor of history, led a discus­sion at Notre Dame Downtown, located on South Michigan Strnnt, whkh focused on lesser­known dvil rights activists. 
Dean of First Year of Studies and theology professor Hugh Page was the keynote speaker at the "King Day" gospel program at the Century Center in South Bnnd. Page discussed tht1 rela­tionship between religion and sodal ehang11 at the annual pro­J.,>Tam. 
In meent ynars, celebrations of Martin Luther King Day at Notrn Damn have ineluded prayer serviens, a "pnaen quilt" made by studenl<> of' Notre Damn and loml nlemnntary schools and an artistic showeasn by studnnl'i of Notm Dame, Saint Mary's, and Iloly Cross. 
As in 2004, this year Notre I>ame will bn holding a town hall mneting. "A Call fhr Your Voice: Th11 H11sponsibility of Every Man and Woman," will take place .Jan. 24 and will discuss topies such as polities and global humanitarian interest<>, econom­ies, education, gender relations and cultural diversity at the University and Catholic soeial teaching. Faculty members on the panel will indude Anthony Burrow, a researcher assoeiate in the department of' psychology, and Heanna Ursin, a visiting fel­low in the department of Afrieana studies. Student mem­bers of the King Day committee, whieh organized the event, will also share the mierophone dur­ing the mtleting. 
The meeting is sponsored by Campus Ministry and Multicultural Student Programs and Services and will be held at 7 p.m. in the student lounge of the Coleman-Morse Center. In addition to Tuesday's event, there will be a similar discussion by selected student leaders and members of the King Day com­mittee on Jan. 23, in the Main Building. 
Students understood why the University did not hold any evenl'i honoring King this week. 
"It would have been nice for the University to have done something because he really ehanged the way the country works, but it's understandable that nothing happened because we all just got baek from break," freshman Eileen Helmer said. "Organizing and advertising any type of event would've been pretty hard." 
Contact Peter Ninneman at pninnema@nd.edu 


Students trek to Tem_pe over break 

By RYAN SYDLIK 
News Writer 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students traveled from all over the United States to Tempe, Ariz .. in large numbers over the break to sec the Irish take on the Ohio State Buekcyes in the Fiesta Bowl. Despite the loss, student<; enjoyed the game and the experiences that eamc with it. 
Senior Chris Christensen of Knott Hall made the trip to the Sun Devil Stadium from Virginia with friends and family. 
"I had a good time," Christensen said. "I really enjoyed seeing all my friends there, and being in the student section made it almost like a home game." 
However, Christensen was not a big fan of Sun Devil Stadium. It was disconcerting to him because, he said, due to the stands' red color, it looked like there were more Ohio State fans than Notre Dame fans. 
Kevin Clock, also a senior from Knott Hall, made his way to Tempe and said the weather was ideal for a football game. 
"Aside from the loss, I had a great time," Clock said. "It was good to sec [all my friends] for a game one last time," 
Clock was able to go beeause a friend secured him a game ticket and beeause he received a plane ticket as a special gift from his grandfather. He knew some peo­ple that were not as well pre­pared, however. 
"One girl I know didn't initially have a game ticket, but she made all the flight arrangements before she even was able to get one," he said. 
Clock also mentioned that he knew a few people who were upset they didn't win the lottery. 
"Seniors were mad that under­classmen got tickets while they were unable to go to what would be their last game as a student," he said. 
Saint Mary's senior Tai Baird waited in line for several hours in the College's Student Center to buy one of the 100 tickets allotted to Saint Mary's students and then flew from Georgia to watch the Irish face off against the Buckeyes. 
"It was really neat meeting so many different people from all across the United States that trav­eled just to sec the game," Baird said. 
Will Kurtz was another senior who attended the game. 
"It was a lot of fun," Kurtz said. "I really thought we were coming back in the last 5 minutPs, but our defense just eouldn 't stop them." 
Kurtz also had positive experi­ences with Ohio State fans and said they were really amiablP. 
"I didn't see any lighl'i or argu­ments," Kurtz said. "I expected a little bit more animosity, but there really wasn't any at all." 
A native of Seott'idale, it was the fourth Notre Dame bowl game loss in Arizona Kurtz attended. 
''I'm still waiting for a victory," Kurtz said. "And hopefully, the fifth time is the charm." 
Ed Kummercr, a sophomore who is also an Arizona native, went to the game with his family. "It was painful at times, but it was fun to go and support the team," Kummernr said. 
Saint Mary's studP.nt Becky Feauto flew from Iowa to Vegas and then drove to Tempe to tail­gate with friends and watch Notro Dame take the field. 
"I enjoyed the game despite being disappointed by the loss," Fcauto said. 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 
The Observer 
is currently accepting applications for the 
2006-07 Editor-in-Chief 
Applicants must submit BOTH a resume and at least a 1 0-PAGE proposal explaining their interest in the position and their plans for running the newspaper. 
Applications are due Sunday, January 22 by 5 p.m. 
COMPLETED APPLICATIONS CAN BE SUBMITTED TO THE OBSERVER'S OFFICE IN THE BASEMENT OF SOUTH DINING HALL. 
Contact Editor-in-Chief Claire Heininger at 1-4542 for more information 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 18, 2006 
Jenkins 
continued from page 1 
Thursday. 
Brown said he did not believe a decision had been reached about whether to change the name of the Queer Film Festival, a possibility raised in December. 
Each address' audience will be allowed a chance to respond with comments or questions, an open discussion concept that quickly generated a positive response from the Notre Dame community. 
"It's important that Father John is telling us what his thoughts are because [the aca­demic freedom issue] has caused a lot of discord in the communi­ty," said anthropology professor James McKenna, whose depart­ment has previously sponsored the Queer Film Festival. "What's important is the ability of these issues to be addressed by all constituencies of the campus." 
But he also expressed uncer­tainty -a feeling he believes many professors share. 
"I think all of us are thinking the same thing, [that is] we don't have a sense of what he's going to say," McKenna said. "It is interesting because everyone is interested in it. Everyone thinks this has a lot of implications in orde·r for our University to be great." 
Crnkovich said the new year provided a good opportunity for new University leadership to ini­tiate discussion on important topics such as academic free­dom. 
"A university setting is a won­derful place to encourage points of view and discussions of impor­tance," she said. 

Jenkins prioritized student involvement in the discussion through an invitation Executive Assistant to the President Frances Shavers extended to student body president Dave Baron during winter break. On Jan. 2, Jenkins, Shavers, Baron and student body vice president this very seriously, which is a very good sign." 
Philosophy professor Ed Manier, who has in the past been outspoken in defense of academ­ic freedom issues, including the Queer Film Festival, said predic­tions about what the president will reveal are at this point spec­ulative. 
"My initial reaction is more in 
Lizzi Shappell met while in Arizona for the Fiesta Bowl to discuss the possibility of a dialogue involving stu­dents, Baron said. 
"I appreciate and respect the approach [Jenkins] is taking with this, especially his effort to include as many people as possible in the discussion," Baron said. "T.hat's 

"I think all ofus are thinking the same thing, [that is] we don't have a sense ofwhat he's going to say. It is interesting because everyone is interested in it. Everyone thinks this has a lot ofimplications in order for our University to be great. " 
James McKenna anthropology professor 
the wait and see mode," Manier said. "Jenkins is a serious man and this is an important talk. I think it will be a good idea to lis­ten to the talk with something like an open mind ... I cer­tainly plan on attending." 
Students involved with the Vagina Monologues production are also anxious to hear what Jenkins has to say, director 
extremely respectful of us, as students in particular." 
Baron said he believes there will be a sizeable student turnout at Tuesday's discussion. 
Jenkins has no choice but to confront an issue of this magni­tude, said Charles Rice, law school professor emeritus, who has previously opposed both the Vagina Monologues and the Queer Film Festival. 
"I think that's part of his responsibility as president to address this issue," Rice said. "I did not expect it but I think it's an indication that he is taking 
Madi Liddy said. 

"We just discussed that we're going to keep an open mind," Liddy said. "Although there's a lot of drama about the Vagina Monologues, we're also really willing to hear what he has to say about academic freedom ... We all want to go." 
The co-chairs of this year's Queer Film Festival were not available for comment Tuesday. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu and Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
Class 
continued from page 1 

Tuesday and Thursday. Some students who utilized the class-free Monday for readjust­ing to college life after a four­week winter break did not wel­come the earlier starting date. 
"I liked having the extra day to get organized, buy books and catch up with friends before we start in with class­es," junior Catherine Reinert said. "I arrived on Sunday night and had class all day [on Monday] so I haven't had a chance to buy my books yet." 
The College made adjust­ments in attempts to accommo­date the early start to the semester. Representatives from each academic department were available on Sunday afternoon to address students' scheduling problems, and the bookstore remained open from 8 a.m. until 6 p.m. 
College residence halls, how­ever, did not reopen until 9 
a.m. on Sunday, which proved to put a time constraint on many students who desired extra time to move back into their dorm rooms. 
"I felt a little rushed, espe­cially since they didn't open the dorms until Sunday morning," junior Mary Meier said. "I was also surprised that the book­store closed at 6 p.m. I figured they would stay open later to accommodate students." 
As a junior resident advisor, Jessica Stoller returned to her dorm room on Saturday and said that the situation became frustrating when some students snuck back into their dorm rooms on Saturday evening. "Some [students] had already bought plane tickets to come back without to school on Saturday rather than Sunday, and we had to allow housing . and make special exceptions," she said. "The change was just frustrating for residents, RAs and residence life staff to have to deal with on a fairly short notice." 
Sophomores Erin Hogan and Natalie Grasso faced the chal­lenge of having a very limited time to move into their dorm rooms after studying in Rome last semester. 
"We just really hit the ground running," Grasso said. "We had to move in quickly, which gave us no time to stop and think about the readjusting process." 
Hogan agreed and said that it was difficult to find time to reunite with friends after being away from the campus since last May. 
"I have just been going non­stop since I got here, and have not even had time to think about being back," she said. 
Communications studies pro­fessor Colleen Fitzpatrick said she felt students did not seem quite as prepared on Monday as they did on the first day of class last semester. 
"Very few students had the textbooks yet . . . I also heard of a few students who missed Monday's class because they assumed the semester started [Tuesday]," she said. "But over­all, the students seemed to be enthusiastic about starting, even if there were a few grum­bles about starting on Monday." 
Contact Kelly Meehan at 
kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


+ 
How do you pick who teaches high school, middle school, and elementary? 

+ 
What if one of my recommendation letters does not arrive on time? 


s·roP BY ·rl·I E ACE ()Jf!CE 
ll2 BADIN HALL
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18TH-7-9PM 
FOR SOME COFr:EE 
& SOME ANS\Vl:RS! 
ACE STAFF i\;1EN1BERS \VILL BE ON HAND TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS YOU IvliGHT HAVE! 


ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, January 18, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Countries disagree over Iran 
Vllo:NNA, Austria -Pressure on Iran ini.«Hlsil'ind Ttwsday, with koy Europoan rounl.rins aud Uw United Statns moving alwad with plans to rnfnr Tehran to tho 
U.N. Snrurity Council and Israel vowing not to lnt llw Iranians dnvnlop nuelnar woapons. 
But Hussia and China-Iran's past back­Prs-urged rwgotiations instead of con­frontation. casting doubt on whntlwr next month"s lntnrnalional Atomic Erwrgy Agn11ry llwotillg will dPmonstraln a unifind political will. 
A nwnting Monday in London produend no agrnnmnnt among the Unitod States, f."raru~n. Britain and Cormany and Moscow and B1~ijing on whether to rnfnr tho dispute over Iranian nuclear nnrichmnnt to thn Security Counr.il. which eould imposn sanc­tions. 
U.S. strike strains Pakistani relations 
PI·:SIIAWAH, Pakistan -Pakistani provin­cial authoritins said Tuesday four or fivn for­Pign tnrrorists wmn killml in tho purportnd 
U.S. missih~ strike that has snvnrPiy strairwd rnlations with this Muslim nation, a key ally in l'rnsidPnt Bush's war on tnrror. 
Prinu~ MinistPr Shaukat Aziz. on tho ovn of a trip to Washington. said that dnspitn the importan1~n of tins with thn United States, altarks insido Pakistan "cannot bn rondonod." 
"Pakistan has committnd to lighting terror­ism. but naturally we cannot accept any action within our country which results in what happmwd ovm tho wnnknnd," Aziz said, n~fmring to tho missile strike Friday in the bordN viiiago of Damadola. 
Eight«wn rnsidnnts, ineluding womnn and rhildrnn. worn also killed in tho strike, tho 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Court rules to remove life support 
SI'HINGFIEI.D, Mass.-The state's highest court rulod Tuesday that an 11-ynar-old girl who was allogndly kickod and beaten with a hasdJUII bat eould be taken ofT life support. Tho move could lead to murder eharges against lwr stnpfather. 
Stall~ oiTidals had asknd that Ilaleigh Poutn~·s vnntilator and fending tube be with­drawn after doetors said she was in a vegnta­tiv•~ statn with no hope of recovery. 
llnr slf~pfather, who is already charged with lwating the girl. fought the move. but the Suprnmn .Judidal Court ruled against him. 
No imnwdiatn date was set for tho removal of lif"n support, said Donisn Montniro, a spokeswoman for tho Department of Sodal Snrvicns. Doctors havn said llalnigh would die within a few d!LYS without tho fending tube. 
Senators: Katrina recovery slow 
NEW OHLEANS -Progrnss rnbuilding thn Cull" Coast is still ovnrshadownd by the devas­tation brought by llurricann Katrina, sena­tors said Tunsday, promising morn federal hPlp as thny vinwnd broken lnvnns and the shattnrnd homns of victims trying to restart their livns. 
Four months af'tnr thn Aug. 21J storm, law­makers said thny wnre surprisnd to sen how littln progn~ss has bnnn made in places like c;ulf'port, Miss., whnn1 ehurdws worn guttnd and t.rPns uprootPd, and in Now Orlnans, wlwrn piles of hoards and rubhln sit wlwrn homns usnd to stand. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Legislature reviews highway plan 
INiliANAI'Ol.IS -Gov. Mitch Daniels' major highway plan got sevoral plugs dur­ing its first hearing bnl'ort1 lawmakers Tuesday, with propononts calling it a bold proposal that would creatn jobs and boost nronomk devnlopnwnt by funding numnr­ous road and other transportation projects. 
The plan would allow the state to lnase tlu~ Indiana Toll Hoad in northern Indiana to a private venture for an up-front sum tlw administration hopes would bn $2 bil­lion or morn. 
Court upholds doctor-assisted suicide 
Without Roberts' support, Supreme Court backs Oregon's assisted suicide law 
Associated Press 

WASIIINGTON-The first major ruling of tho Hobnrts era at the Suprome Court was missing somnthing: tlw support of nnw Chief .Justico John Hobnrts. 
Hoberts joined the court's most conservative nH1Ill­bers. Antonio Scalia and Clarnnee Thomas, in baek­ing the Bush administra­tion's challengn to Orngon's unique doctor-assistnd sui­cide law. 
They were outvoted, how­ever, by moderato and liber­al justices who said Oregon doctors can help terminally ill patinnts die without fear of punishment from the fed­eral gov~~rnment. 
The 6-3 decision found that the Bush administra­tion improperly tried to use a federal drug law to pur­sue OrHgon doetors who help people din undnr the law. 
Although Hoberts did not writH his own dissent, his vote signals how he may change tho court. · 
lie rnplaced William II. Hehnquist, a states' rights supporter who was against the Bush administration in another state-federal gov­ernment dash last ynar, Congress to attempt to out­and capital punishnwnt. That decision, hy Hnhnquist,
over federal authority to 
law assisted suicide. The case was argued in left room for states to setoverride state mndieal mar­"Congress did not have October on Hoberts' second their own ruins.
ijuana statutes. 

this far-reaching intent to day on the bench, and he The Tuesday ruling, and
Justiee Anthony M. 
alter the federal-state bal­strongly hinted that he dissents, were tinged withKennedy said the latest dis­ance," Kennedy wrote for would back the Bush an understanding about thnpute, between Oregon and the majority -himself', administration. Somn eourt delicate nature of the sub­social conservatives in the retiring Justice Sandra Day watchers had expected ject. Thn court itself is aging
Bush administration, was 
O'Connor and Justiees John O'Connor to be the decisive and thn death of Hnhnquist
part of a "political and 
Paul Stevens, David Souter, vote, which could havn this past Snptmnlwr after amoral debatn" over doctor­Ruth Bader Ginsburg and delayed the casn until hor yearlong light with canc1~rassisted suieidn. 
Stephen Breyer. successor was on the court. was emotional for the jus­The ruling could encour­With this decision The Senate is set to vote liens.
age other states to consider Kennedy showed signs of soon on nominen Samuel Scalia said in his dissentcopying Oregon's law, used becoming a more influential ;\lito. that thn court's ruling "is
to end the lives of' more 
swing voter after O'Connor Justices have dealt with perhaps drivnn by a fnnlingthan 200 seriously ill people departs. lie is a moderate end-of-life cases before, that the subject of assistndin that state. The decision, conservativn who some­most recently in 1997 when suicide is none of' the fl~dor­one of' the biggest expected times joins more liberal the court unanimously al governmnnt's business. It
from the eourt this year, 
members on eases involving ruled that peopln have no is easy to sympathize withalso could set the stage for such things as gay rights constitutional right to die. that position." 

IRAQ 

Tape of U.S. hostage aired on Iraqi television 
Associated Press tape on Tuesday. In its own statenwnt appealing f'OJ" 
However, a still photograph of Carroll's rnleasn, tlw nnwspapor said 
BAGHDAD -Hostage Amnriean Carroll from thn videotapn that later she arrivnd in Iraq in 2003 and reporter Jill Carroll appeared in a appeared on thn J\1-Jazeera Web site began liling stories l'or tlw Monitor silent 20-sneond video aired Tunsday carried a logo in the bottom right early last year. by Al-Jazeera television, which said corner that read "Thn Hnvengo Tlw kidnapp1~rs "have sniwd an her abductors gave thn Unitnd States Brigade." The group was not known innocent porson who is a grPat 72 hours to free female prisoners in from prnvious elaims of responsibili­admirer of' the Iraqi peopl1~ ... tlw Iraq or she would be killed. ty of violenee in Iraq. newspaper said. "Siw is a prof'Pssion­
The tape showed thn 28-year-old Carroll was a freelance report1~r al journalist whose only goal has reporter sitting in front of a white for The Christian Science Monitor. b1111n to report truthfully about Iraq background and spnaking, but her and the newspapnr released a statn­and to promotn understanding. As an voice could not be heard. On the ment from her family pleading with intelligent, dedicated, OJWn-mimled tape, Carroll is pale and appears her captors to set hor free. rnportnr. she has earned tlw rnspnct 
tired, and her long, straight, brown "Jill is an innocp,nt journalist and of' her Arab and Western peers." hair is parted in the middle and we respectfully ask that you pleas1~ The State Department rnspondnd pulled back from her raeo. show her merey and allow hnr to to the videotape with a stall~ment 
Al-Jazeera would not tell Thn return home to hnr mother, sister that U.S. ortieials worn doing every-. Associated Press how it reenived the and family," the statemnnt said. "Jill thing possible to win Carroll's frnn­tape, but the station issued its own is a friend and sister to many Iraqis dom. 
statement calling for Carroll's and has bnen dedicated to bringing "We continue to make every nfTort release. An Al-Jazeera producer said the truth of thn Iraq war to the Wfl can, working with Iraqis and oth­no militant group's name was world. We appeal for the speedy and ers, to sen Miss Carroll is return11d attached to the messagn that was safn return of our beloved daughter safe and sound," spokesman Soan snnt to the station with thn silent and sister." McCormaek said. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 18, 2006 
Thefts 
continued from page 1 
Playstation consoles to food and a bed comforter, the occupants said. Desktop computers and tel­evision sets were spared. 
Senior John Noell, who lives at the house, said he and his room­mates locked every window and door before leaving for break. 
"But we have big windows and doors that aren't sturdy and lock­ing your room isn't good either [becauseI those can get kicked easily, too," Noell said. "I was prepared [against burglary], but I wasn't surprised [our house was broken into]." 
Nearly every door of the house was broken down -including the 10 bedroom doors -all of which were locked. 
The tenants didn't find out about the robbery until one of the roommates, who lives in Granger, drove by the house and realized what had happened. 
The damage was not as severe at 821 East Washington St., where residents said the bur­glars were caught in the middle of their stealing spree, thanks to a friend who drove by the house and noticed people inside. The burglary was reported on Dec. 28. 
"The house is equipped with an alarm, which apparently was not triggered during the break-in," said one of the residents, a male senior who wished to remain anonymous. "The speaker for the alarm was ripped out of the wall. We are frustrated that the alarm did not go off. but are very thankful that our friend was in the area during the time of the burglary." 

The South Bend Police Department did not return phone calls seeking comment Tuesday. 
Mark Kramer, who owns both houses on Washington Street, said alarm systems are essential to preventing break-ins. He said he sent out an e-mail to all his tenants before the holiday encouraging them to take special precautions to ensure that their houses were safe. 
Despite his instructions, this year's crimes were the worst he's ever seen. 
"That's the problem ... this is the prime time that something is going to happen, but we don't have a lot of break-ins," Kramer said. "In all my years of doing this I can count them on one hand." 
Kramer said every house he owns has an alarm system, but it's up to the tenants to make sure it's connected and working properly. 
A break-in was also reported at 524 Corby St. on Dec. 28, where vandals splattered walls with profane graffiti -causing between $500-$1,000 worth of damage, resident Ray Jarosz said. 
The vandals broke through a window on the second floor using a futon from a neighbor's porch. 
"[There was] writing on pic­tures and on walls, [and also] feces on a chair," said James Yesnik, who also lives in the house. 
The house's alarm system was not connected, allowing the van­dals to cause serious damage without the threat of getting caught. The only item stolen was an old Notre Dame I.D card. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
Ti0101 

continued from page 1 
representatives from the corporate board, the School Sisters of Notre Dame, the Board of Trustees, faculty, administration, staff, stu­dents and alumnae. 
"When I met with the search committee it felt really good. I thought, 'This could be a really good fit for me,"' Timm said. 
Timm was invited back to Mount Mary in late October for a weekend of extensive interviews, which she described as "intense." She was notified she had been selected as the College's lOth president just before Christmas. 
"I've very excited," Timm said. "I was feeling confi­dent throughout. I just felt throughout all the inter­views I communicated who I am and what my skills are and my interests in the best possible way that I could." 
Timm will take the helm at a college that has made notable progress in the past few years. Outgoing College President Patricia O'Donoghue increased enrollment this year to a record-high 1,722 students. A recent capital campaign raised $28 million, far sur­passing the original goal of $16.5 million and enabling the institution to build two new buildings. 
However, while Mount Mary mirrors Saint Mary's as a Catholic women's col­lege, it is quite different 
when it comes to student life. The school is largely a commuter college, with fewer than 200 students residing on campus. Further, the average age of the students at Mount Mary is 24, meaning many are working while simultane­ously pursuing a degree. 
Timm said she is looking forward to serving a differ­ent type of student body and working to create sense of campus life. 
"It think that is going to be a really interesting change," Timm said. 
She said her immediate goals as presi­dent are to 
Leaving Saint Mary's will be difficult, Timm said, but turnover is part of the "nat­ural transition" at any school. 
"I think at any institution there is a circle of change," Timm said. "You always want to continue to assess you contributions [to the institution], and bringing in new blood is good." 
Colleagues at Saint Mary's have been very supportive of her decisions, Timm said. 
In a statement released by the College, President Carol Mooney praised Timm for her contributions 

ensure the to Saint
"I think at any
College's Mary's.
institution there is 
financial sta­"Linda's bility by a circle ofchange. ,, selection is a increasing its great personal endowment achievement
Linda Tlmm 
and to pay for her and a 
careful atten-SMC vice president of fitting outcome tion to enroll-student affairs for an exem­
ment numbers. 

"As we are here [at Saint Mary's], you are always going to be very attentive to your enrollment and how you are going to attract students to your institution," Timm said. 
Timm is the second Saint Mary's vice president to step down from the College's administration this academic year. 
In August, Pat White, vice president and dean of fac­ulty, announced he would leave his position in May to take a yearlong sabbatical and then rejoin the English department as a faculty member. 
plary career in 
higher educa­tion," Mooney said. "During her tenure she has shown a consistent level of profes­sional competence and complete devotion to our students. We will miss Dr. Timm at Saint Mary's." 
The College should have no problem attracting a strong replacement for her, Timm said. 
"I am certain there will be a great pool of candi­dates," Timm said. "This is a great job with great peo­ple to work with." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 




..----------------------­
Wednesday, January 18, 2006 

AMEX I ,813.32 ~2.14 NASDAQ 2.265.16 +7.52 
NYSf 7,992.60 -33.34 S&PSOO 1,2g2.93 -4.6g NIKK£1(Tokyo) 15.395.66 -410.29 fTSf IOO(london) 5,699.00 -41.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.05  -0.27  25.52  
NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ)  -0.65  -0.28  42.70  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.74  -0.20  26.99  
SUN MICROSYS INC(SUNW)  -2.12  -0.10  4.61  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -1.27  -0.24  18.68  


30-YEAR BOND -0.31 -0.14 45.11 
I0-YEAR NOTE -0.41 -0.18 43.32 5-YEAR NOTE -0.30 -0.13 42.69 3-MONTH BILL +0.28 +0.12 42.32 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.36 66.94 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -2.70 S54.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.30 83.65 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
115.6000 EURO 
0.8264 POUND 
0.5668 CANADIAN$ 
1.1627 

IN BRIEF 
Stocks fall accordingly with Japan 
Nl~W YOHK -Stods rell moderately Tunsday on llw lwnls of a stoep drop in .Iapan's Nikkei stock average, rising oil prices and disappointing bank earnings. 
U.S. investors sold ofT t~quit.ins af'ler Japan's main stock indi'X rnll 2.X4 pnrennt, its biggest loss in rwarly two years. Japanese stocks slid after Tokyo-basPd lntnrrwt company l.ivndoor Co. was raidnd Monday nvening over suspeet­ncl securities violations, nnws that sparked a sellof'r of' ot.lwr lntnrrwt companies and pushed down auto and eln1:tronies stocks. 
Hising oil pril:ns also spookml investors. Crude oil f'uturns rose on concerns about Iran's nudear· program and an attack on an oil platf'orm in Nigt~ria. 1\ barwl ol' light crudn was quoted at $(,5.39, up $1.47, in trading on tlw Nt~w York Mnreantile Exdmnge. 
Disappointing bank earnings also spurrnd snlling. Wells [.'argo & Co. missnd analysts' nxpnc.tations, saying a spike in personal bank­ruptl'ins in the fourth quartnr hurt its results. Cineinnati-based Fifth Third Baneorp said its margins arn narrowing and its nnt internst itH'onw l'nll 2 pl'reent f'rom tlw year-ago pnri­od. 
Dana Corp. suffers substantial loss 
TOI.U>O, Ohio-/\uto parts maker Dana Corp. on Tunsday rnportnd a third-quartnr loss or rwarly $1.3 billion as a slumping automobile industry fort:t~d it to rnalign its business, trigger­ing massivn charges during the period. Its sharPs tumhlnd morn than 20 pnrcnnt. 
Tlw mmpany, which makns brakns, axlns and otlwr parL-., rnportnd a loss of' $1.27 billion. or $S.50 pnr share, for tlw three months ended St~pt. :m compared to a profit of $42 million, or 2X cnnts pnr sham, a ynar oarlier. Sales odgod higher to $2.4 billion from $2.11 billion last year. 
"Obviously, our results am far from aceept­ahln, parlieularly tho opt~rating loss," said Chairman and Chief Exncutive Mike Burns in a statmnent. "Many of thn challenges we arn fac­ing on tho automotivn sidn, including higher material cosL-. and lower production levels, arn induslrywide issues." 
Tlw company said in Oetobor that it was delaying tho release of the statement as it worknd to restate previous earnings reports bneausn of improper aeeounting. 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

Guidant accepts Boston Scientific offer 
$27.2 billion may end bidding war between Johnson & Johnson and Boston Scientific 
Associated Press 

BOSTON -For Boston Seinntifie Corp., tim third time was a charm -even if the priee it must pay fiJr a rival medical device makor is nearly $3 billion morn than when it sparked a bidding war. 
Guidant Corp. spurnod Boston Sdnntifk's first two buyout otTers in favor of' Guidant's standing dnal with Johnson & Johnson. 
So instnad of' bidding higher by anothnr fi~w lnmdrnd mil­lion dollars. Boston Scientific ponind up in a big way Tunsday. raising iL-. ofli~r frmn about $25 billion to $27.2 bil­lion. 
Loss than ninn hours latnr, Boston Scinntif'ic got tho change of' !wart it wanted. Guidant nmbraePd Boston Sdentifk's proposal as supn­rior to .I&.J's latest of'f'nr. which is about $] billion smallor but eould of'f'e r a spnndior routn to a completnd clnal. 
.1&.1 now must decide whether to bid higlwr or walk away with a $705 million break-up fen. The reo had bmm snt at $625 million, but has been incrnasnd twice in the most mcnnt J&J ofliws. 
Tunsday's priee hike, and other nnw nnticements, lef't some observers surprised at thn len!,Tt.hs Boston Scientific is going to buy Guidant and acquire iL'i lucrative business uppnr hand in this." involving Guidant products. !nave it saddiPd with too in implantabln heart defibril­J&J and Boston Seientilie Sinee Juno, Guidant has mueh dnht. J&J also said tim lators and pacemakers. arn closo rivals in the markot rnealled or issued warnings proposal was based on 
Some eonsidernd it a last­f(w drug-eoated heart stenL-.. about SX,OOO htmrt defibrilla­"nxtrenwly aggn~ssivn busi­diteh ellhrt to quiekly unseat But thny face increasing com­tors and almost 200,000 ness projnel.ions." .1&1 rather than draw out the potition in Uutt niche and are paenmaknrs, leading to law­"Thn company will considtw proenss with additional mod­dunling to move into defibril­suiL<> and rn~-,rulatory invnsti­its altnrnatives under tlw est boosts. lators and pacemakers, a gations. existing nwrgnr agrennwnt 
"I didn't expect a knock­fast-growing $10 billion busi­Guidant said in a brief with Cuidant," said Nnw your-socks-ofT bid," said ness in which neither suitor is statement Tuesday that its Brunswkk, N . .l.-lllL'ied .1&.1. Nancy llavnns, manager of a player. board detormined that Sharnholdnrs arn to votn on Havens Advisors, a New Thn bidding war began Boston Seinntilie's revised .I&J's omw Jan. 31. But with York-basnd hedgn f'und and Doe. 5 when Boston Scientific oJTer is "superior" to its Indianapolis-based Cuidant Guidant invnstor. "This has made an unsolicited $24.6 standing deal with J&J. declaring Boston Sdnntifk's gono higlwr than anybody billion oil'nr -a move that Johnson & Johnson bid supnrior, .I&J now IHL'> livn ever anticipated." came aftnr J&J reduced its responded by saying Boston business days-until tlw nnd 
'But I think this is a very, price from the original $25.4 Seinntilie's proposal would of business Jan. 24 -to very smart move filr Boston billion to $21.5 billion hurt the earnings potential of muntnr it under tho tnrms of Sdontilic ... They'vo taken the because of safety problems tho eombinnd company and its agrnnnwnt with Guidant.. 

Safety questions arise with hemophilia drug 
appears in Wednesday's Journal of' the patients without hnmophilia. Novo
Associated Press 

American Modica! Association. Nordisk said it is condueting studies on 
Cl IICAGO -A hemophilia drug has The authors, inducting Dr. Kathryn the sal'ety of NovoSevnn in such bnnn linknd to deaths, strokes, lwart O'Connell of the FDA's Center l'or patients. attacks and othnr complications in Biologies Evaluation and H.eseareh, Thn researelwrs analyzed 4:~ I pationts givon the m11dicine for othor called for rigorous sal'ety studies of' n~ports to the FD/\ of' advorsn evnnts, types of out-of-control bloeding, such new uses for the drug, which is made ranging !'rom nausea to dnath. during as cerebral hemorrhages, according to by the Danish pharmaceutical compa­the first live years of tlw drug's usn. FDA researchers. ny Novo Nordisk. Drug makers are required to report 
The medicine, NovoSeven, is a dot­NovoSeven got l'ast-track approval such side e!Teets when they happen ting drug that was introduced in liJIJIJ as an orphan drug, whieh means the during reseanh on the drug af'tnr its aftor being approved by the Food and company reeoivecl financial incentives approval. Dodors report them volun­Drug Administration to stop bleeding to develop it beeauso it treats a raro tarily. in hemophiliacs. But it has also shown condition and was soon as having little In 1R5 eases, the drug's clotting promise in treating cerebral hemor­potential for profit. aetion may have led to problems such rhages, a potentially lethal type of Novo Nordisk AS said in a statement as strokes and heart attacks, aeeord­stroke involving bleeding in the brain. that off-label use of NovoSeven has ing to the study. Most of thoso prob­
Most of the reported complications resulted in complications in older peo­lems follownd ofl'-labnl uses and hap­followed oll'-labnl use--that is, uses f()r ple and those with underlying heart pened within 24 hours of the last dosn. which tho drug was not speeilically disease and acute injuries. The risk for Whon it was introduced, NovoSeven approved by the FDA. 0!1'-labnl usn is approved uses "is thought to bo low," was thought to be helpl'ul l'or only the legal, but doctors have less informa­the company said. 10 percent of' hnmophilia patients who tion on possibl(~ side effects of such The company changed the warning do not respond to standard troat­uses. in the paekage insert in October to ments. The genetically ongineered 
The report on the complications inelude information on side e!Tects in drug cost about $7,500 per dose. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 18, 2006 
Wormington, also a victim of the lights on and turn alarms the same alarm company for the 825 Washington St. on," he said. years without difficulty.
Security 

break-in, said there are Kramer said after students An resident of 821 continued from page 1 "always" crimes in off-cam­Leave, all houses are Washington St. who wished to 
pus housing while students "checked" remain anony­Thanksgiving break [because are home between semesters. and those mous said of] the reputation of the "Landlords, student govern­with activat-although the area," said senior Bill ment and probably parents, ed alarms house was Kiolbasa, a neighbor of the as well, have gone through are turned ':4 lot ofstudents are equipped with 524 Corby St. residents the proper precautions with on. upset because they feel an alarm sys­whose house was vandalized students, but if someone "We're tem, it was
their neighbors have been 
during winter break. wants to break into a home aware stu­"apparently 
Senior Stephen Muto -a they usually can, especially dents are calling the police on them not triggered resident of the 825 knowing that police forces targeted with noise complaints ad during the Washington St. home robbed are already quite busy and no over break break-in." 
nauseam, but failed to
during break -said though one will be in the home for and we try "We are he was "upset" his house was over a month," he said. to be dili­notice that people were frustrated the broken into, he was "almost Phil Johnson, associate gent and in their homes kicking alarm did not expecting" the crime. director of Notre Dame proactive in go off," he
down doors while they 
"I was surprised that we Security/Police (NDSP) said checking. said. "A more weren't broken into [last criminals target student They all were supposed to be secure and yearJ," he said. "I expected it houses because they "know have alarm empty." reliable secu­to happen." full well what [students'] systems but rity system 
Derek Gelcich, a senior who schedules are." I don't know would be
Matt Wormington
also lives at 825 Washington Turtle Creek Apartments if they're appreciated, St., said he and his room­representative Sarah Johnson actually off-campus president [but] I cannot mates were warned of poten­said the company takes spe­hooked up," hold our land­tial crime in the area by pre­cial precautions during the he said. lord liable for vious home renters. vulnerable time between J a r o s z the criminal 
"We had talked to people semesters. said when intruders entered acts of others in this commu­who lived [here] last year, "[Our methods of security] and vandalized his Anlan nity." and talked to people at have definitely been effec­Properties-owned home, Wormington said he has Washington Street about how tive," she said. "As far as I police were not notified heard "a lot" of negativity they got robbed," he said. "At know, [other housing com­because the alarm system from students affected by the some point we knew some munities] have had more was disconnected. crimes -ill will that might houses would get robbed -instances of theft and vandal­"No signal was sent to the place further stress on Notre we were just hoping it wasn't ism than us." police, but the alarm's motion Dame's relationship with the ours." Johnson said "to her knowl­detectors were tripped when 
Senior John Noell, who edge" no thefts or vandalisms they went into the base­lives with Muto and Gelrich, were reported in the housing ment," he said. "This defi­said he was units during nitely stopped them from tak­"prepared" winter break. ing anything, because you for such a Turtle don't just break into a house break-in and "Landlords, student Creek has one and not take electronics, or was not sur­courtesy staff something."
government and

prised given member liv­Kramer encourages tenants the reputa­probably parents, as well, ing on cam­to activate their alarm sys­tion of their have gone through the pus with a tems as they "prevent cata­1O-man resi­pager on him strophic damage and the loss
proper precautions 

dence. at all times of belongings" for an afford­
"Our house with students, but if who watches able price -Less than $30 a is known as someone wants to break the property year per person, he said. a student at night, "At 821, the alarm was on
into a home they usually 

house and Johnson said. [and] not as much was people know can, especially knowing Additionally, taken," he said. ''f've been where it is that police forces are employees told [the residents of 8251 and we fig­who live refused to set up the alarm
already quite busy and no 

ure it had a throughout system ... I don't know why
one will be in the home 

decent shot the housing they wouldn't." of getting for over a month." complex But Muto said he and his b r o k e n serve to roommates called their alarm into," he thwart poten­company "a million times" to
Matt Wormington

said. tial criminals. activate their system.
off-campus president 

Students Kramer "I blame [Safeguard said their Properties Company]," he said. "We set status as owner Mark up four or five appointments Notre Dame Kramer, who and they never came out." undergraduates caused them rents out the 825 Washington Noell said the company to be sitting ducks for crimi­St. and 821 E. Washington St. "messed around" with him nals who knew no one would homes robbed during break, and his fellow tenets. be inhabiting the homes for said he warns tenants each "I think it's a scam," he more than a month during year of potential crimes dur­said. "I wonder if [Kramer] winter break. ing this "prime time" -even affiliates himself with them. 
"The [intruders] know who though he doesn't usually If you're trying to be a good we are and saw that our experience this magnitude of landlord, why would you house was empty," said sen­crime at his residences. affiliate yourself with a bad ior Ray Jarosz, whose 524 "We send out a notice [for] security company? Safeguard Corby St. home was vandal­tenants to call the police and Company ... is worthless to ized. set up a neighborhood watch me. I'd rather get ADT." 
Off-campus president Matt [and] we urge them to leave Kramer said he has used 
MUSIC LESSONS 
The Notre Dame Department of Music provides lessons to faculty, staff, and administrators as well as students! 
Visit Room 1 05 Crowley Hall of Music (next to LaFortune Student Center) by january 19, 2006 to register. 
For more information, visit our website at http://www.nd.edu/-music 
.i'~ ~~ ,;) 
Credit optional! Flexible scheduling! 

South Bend community. 
"A lot of students are upset because they feel their neigh­bors have been calling the police on them with noise complaints ad nauseam, but failed to notice that people were in their homes kicking down doors while they were supposed to be empty," he said. 
Muto said his neighbors "aren't the biggest fans," and would not call the police if their house were robbed. 
Wormington said the neigh­bors should not be blamed from the crimes, but thinks the students' response is "a reflection of the growing ten­sions between students and the community." 
"I hope students and neigh­bors can begin to see this issue from both sides and come to an understanding of one another," he said. "[Student body president] Dave Baron and I still believe the developing dialogue between the two groups will serve to alleviate this tension -but it isn't going to happen overnight." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 


Wednesday, January 18, 2006 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Duerson 
continued from page l 
Following his Notrn Dame football eareor, DuNson played I I snasons in tho NFL. narning l'ro Bowl honors four tinws and winning Supnr Bowl titlns with tlw Chicago Boars in I<JH(J and tlw Nnw York (;iants in I99 I. lin also playnd for tho Phonnix c:anlinals. 
Ilunrson, a t<JH:~ Notnl Damn graduat•l, had hn•n1 a Univnrsity trustl'n sirH:n 200 I and the prnsidont of tlw Monogram Club sinco 201U. lin also msigrwd his position in tlw Monogram Club following thn l."nbruary chargos. 
Iluorson had b•wn outspoken about Notre Damn football dur­ing his tenure as a trustne. In the spring of 2004, the Monogram Club wrote a rosponse to a letter written by a group of Notrn Dame alumni that criticized the way the fool­ball program was managed. In the Monogram Club's letter, the group elaimnd that the alumni letter should have never been released to the media because it hurt the University's image, impeded the ovnrall administra­tion of the University and ath­lntk dnpartmont and negatively afTeetod rnvonue resourcos. 
Duerson spoko out most roenntly after former Notre Dame football coach Tyrone Willingham was fired in November 2004 after a 6-5 sea­son, describing a decision that was made with great "dissen­sion." 

"With all the other things going on at the University. the least of the problems was wins and losses," he told the Associated Press last December. "There's greater dissension in some other things at the University that need to be cor­rected and dealt with." 
Duerson, president and CEO of Duerson Foods, LLC, was a two-time All-American defen­sive back at Notre Dame, where he played from 1979-83. lie served as tri-captain of the 19H2 Irish. 
The Associated Press con­tributed to this report. 
LEBANON 
Protest builds near U.S. En1bassy 
Associated Press 
Bi':IHUT -Thousands of pro-Syrian l.nbannsn chanting "llnath to Amorica" protnstnd Tunsday noar the U.S. Hmbassy against what they eallod American nwddling in llw e.ountry's affairs. 
Thrnn days ago polieo vio­lontly broko up a similar demonstration that eoincidnd with tho visit of a key U.S. onvoy to tho Middle East. 
Tuosday's protnst occurred during a visit to thn Middle l·:ast by Vicfl l'rosident Diek Chonny, who made stops in l·:gypt, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. 
Students and political activists from 1 H pro-Syrian groups, ineluding the militant llozbollah organization, chant­ed in unison "Death to America!" and "Beirut is free! Free! Amorica get out!" 
During the peaceful one­hour protest, demonstrators also chanted support for Syria and Iran -the United States' main opponents in the Middle East. 
. yards from the fortified embassy compound in Aukar, northern Beirut. Police estimated the crowd 

at 17,000. A Ilezbollah ol'flcial put thn number at 25,000. 
Pro-Syrians aecuse the United States of trying to inl1u­ence Lebanon since Syria was forced to withdraw its troops from the country last April after international and Lebanese pressure over the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri. 
The United States is one of several Western countries that backed a U.N. Security Council resolution in 2004 that demanded an end to Syrian interference in Lebanon and the disarming of all militias in the country -a reference to the pro-Syrian Hezbollah. 
CHINA 
Governn1ent pledge will help combat flu 
Associated Press 
EUING -The United States intends to pledge $334 million to the fight against bird l'lu, according to an ol'licial state­ment shown to The Associated Press Wednesday ahead of a pledging ceremony at an international donors confer­ence. 
That is significantly more than the eonf"nrenen organiz­ers were antieipating. 
Tho gathering in Beijing has taken on a new sensn of urgency after the first deaths from the virus were reeordod outside Asia and there worn hopes it would raise at least $1.5 billion. 
That is the minimum amount needed to avert a pos­sible pandemic, tho World Bank and the United Nations have said. 
"We're talking about a tremendous amount of money here for an issue that is dear­ly of global importanen. Tho stakes are very high," said James LeDuc, a viral illness expert at the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
The U.S. pledge, in grants and technical assistance, includes $56 million for ani­mal and human health sup­plies, said the statement announcing the pledge. It was to be reloasnd at tho eeromo­ny later Wednosday. 
Conforeneo organizers had expected tlw United States to make one of tho largost plndges, somowhoro betwnon $200 million and $300 million. 
Tho pledge would also indudo $:~6 million to support international health organiza­tions, $15 million for non-gov­ernmnntal organizations and tho privatn sector, and $41 million for international rosnarch, tho statement said. 
On Tuesday, tho Europnan Union and drug makor Hodw sharply inr.roasod tlwir eom­mitmnnt to combatting bird flu. 
Tlw EU plndgod about $121 million, $20 million morn th­an it initially annourH~nd last wonk to eombat bird llu and tlw risk or a potential pan­demie. Tho inerease came after Turkey recnntly announced a fourth child had died from the deadly 115N1 strain of bird flu. 
Most of those who died had been in dose contaet with infeeted birds, but health ofli­eials roar tho virus could mutate into a form easily transmissible among humans. 
Overall the pledges eould reach $1.7 billion, mpresnnta­tives from international agen­cies said on the sidelines of the conference. 

SATURDAY, JAN 28TH OPEN TO ND STUDENTS ONLY 
SIGN UP AT LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK LIMITED .. IO FIUT 300 PA TICIPANTS 
FIRST PRIEE: VIDE iPOD 

page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, January 18, 2006 
School district suspends 'intelligent design' course 
Associated Press FRESNO -Under legal pres­sure, a rural school district Tuesday canceled an elective philosophy course on "intelligent design" and agreed never to pro­mote the topic in class again. A group of parents had sued the El Tejon school system last week, accusing it of violating the constitutional separation of church and state with "Philosophy of Design," a high school course taught by a minis­ter's wife that advanced the notion that life is so complex it must have been created by some kind of higher intelligence. 

In the federal court settlement, the district agreed to halt the course at Frazier Mountain High next week and said it would never again offer a "course that promotes or endorses creation­ism, creation science or intelli­gent design." 
"This sends a strong signal to school districts across the coun­try that they cannot promote cre­ationism or intelligent design as an alternative to evolution, whether they do so in a science class or a humanities class," said Ayesha N. Khan, legal director for Americans United for Separation of Church and State, which represented the parents. 
In a landmark lawsuit, Americans United successfully blocked the Dover, Pa., school system last month from teaching intelligent design alongside evo­lution in high school biology classes. U.S. District Judge John 
E. Jones III ruled that intelligent design is religion masquerading as science. 
However, some activists con­tended that Jones' ruling opened the door to teaching intelligent design in philosophy or religion classes. 
The settlement in the El Tejon school district was announced just before a judge was sched­uled to hold a hearing on whether to halt the class midway through the monthlong winter term. 
All five of the cash-strapped district's trustees voted to settle the potentially expensive case, said Pete Carton, the district's attorney. The class started Jan. 3 with 15 students. 
El Tejon Superintendent John Wight said the subject was prop­er for a philosophy class. But Americans United argued the course relied almost exclusively on videos that presented reli­gious theories as scientific ones. 
District officials were encour­aged to settle by the Discovery Institute, a Seattle-based think tank that supports intelligent design and which had filed a court brief in favor of the Dover school board. 
The El Tejon class "was mis­conceived," said John West, a senior fellow at the institute. "It was almost all about Biblical cre­ationism, not intelligent design." 
Sharon Lemburg, a social stud­ies teacher and soccer coach who taught "Philosophy of Design," defended the course in a letter to the weekly Mountain Enterprise. 

Oklahom.a City born.bing witness to be released 
Associated Press Building and killed 168 people. Messages left with the bureau that Fortier's testimony was 
Fortier, 37, formerly of after hours were not immedi­needed to convict McVeigh and 
OKLAHOMA CITY-Michael Kingman, Ariz., has been in ately returned. Nichols. Fortier, the prosecution's star federal custody since the year Jim Denny, whose two chil­"I am very angry," Coverdale witness in the Oklahoma City of the bombing. dren were seriously injured in said. "I feel like Fortier bombing trials, is scheduled to "I think he's served enough the bombing, said he also should've gotten life in prison be released from federal prison time," said Bud Welch, whose believes Fortier should be without parole." Friday, victims' relatives said. daughter Julie, a Social released. Fortier and his wife, Lori, 
The Federal Bureau of Security office staffer, was "McVeigh already got his both testified against McVeigh Prisons has notified family killed in the blast. punishment, and and Nichols during their feder­members of several bombing "I think Michael Nichols will be in al trials and acknowledged
"It's intellectually 
victims of Fortier's impending was probably prison for the rest helping the pair in their plan to release, the relatives said involved in some indefensible to say of his life," Denny blow up the building, said Tuesday. He still must serve of the stuff that that they weren't said. "Let this guy McVeigh's attorney, Stephen three years of supervised was going on in get out and get on Jones.
conspirators,
release. Arizona, but I with his life." "It's intellectually indefensi­Fortier served in the Army hope he's in line because they McVeigh was ble to say that they weren't with bombing conspirators to be a good citi­were. executed in 2001 conspirators, because they Timothy McVeigh and Terry zen now." at the U.S. were. Their own testimony Nichols. He was sentenced in Welch and other Penitentiary in indicates that," Jones said.
Stephen Jones 
1998 to 12 years in prison for victims' family Terre Haute, Ind., "They knew the date, time and knowing about the bomb plot members received Timothy McVeigh's for his role in the place of the bombing and both and not telling authorities. a one-page form attorney bombing. Nichols of them assisted materially." 
He also pleaded guilty to letter from the was convicted on Lori Fortier testified that she helping McVeigh and Nichols Bureau of Prisons both federal and helped make a false ID card move and sell stolen guns, and this week listing Fortier's state charges and is serving a that McVeigh used to rent the for lying to federal authorities release date. sentence of life without parole. truck used in the bombing, after the Oklahoma City bomb­Neither the form nor the Jannie Coverdale, whose two Jones noted. She was granted ing. The 1995 attack destroyed bureau's Web site indicated grandsons were killed in the immunity for her testimony and the Alfred P. Murrah Federal where Fortier was being held. blast, said she doesn't believe never served any prison time. 


Bookstores seek to confirn1 work as 'fiction' 
Oprah's choices face scrutiny in wake of fames Frey's 'A Million Little Pieces' controversy 
Gun. Frey and Winfrey have under "literature and fiction," '"Night' is not a fiction title
Associated Press defended "A Million Little but is switching the book to and we are in the process of NEW YORK -Another Oprah Pieces," saying any factual prob­"biographies and memoirs," updating our database so that book club pick has raised the lems were transcended by the blaming the problem on its "data the title is not classified as issue of fact vs. fiction. book's emotional power. · source." such," Brown says. Barnes & Noble.com and No such allegations are being "Amazon.com's data source Strand says that Amazon's Amazon.com both said Tuesday made about "Night," but there for the Oprah's Book Club edi­changes were based on an inter­that they were making changes has long been confusion over tion of 'Night' inaccurately clas­nal review. Barnes & Noble's to certify Elie Wiesel's "Night" as how to label it. ·While Wiesel and sified the book as fiction," said announcement was in response nonfiction. Barnes & Noble.com his publisher, Farrar, Straus & Strand, who declined to offer to an inquiry from The is removing the book from its fic­Giroux, call it a memoir, "Night" details. Associated Press. tion list, while Amazon.com is is frequently listed as fiction on Meanwhile, Amazon's editorial On Winfrey's Web site, a also changing the categorization course syllabuses and was called description of an earlier edition, description of the book notes of "Night" and revising an edito­a novel in a 1983 published by that "although some facts vary rial description to make clear N.ew York Times Bantam in the slightly from his own personal that it does not consider the review of a Wiesel "Amazon. com's 1980s, is being and familial history, 'Night' book a novel. biography. "Night" edited "to make it should be considered an autobi­
data source or the 
"We hope to make these is described in an explicitly clear ography." Ruth Wisse, a profes­
Oprah's Book Club
changes as quickly as possible," Amazon.com edi­that 'Night' is non­sor of Yiddish and comparative said Jani Strand, a spokes­torial review as edition of 'Night' fiction," Strand literature at Harvard University, woman for Amazon.com. "technically a inaccurately said. The Bantam considers Wiesel's book a mem­Wiesel did not immediately novel," albeit so version, which is oir, but says it's often labeled fic­
clasified the book 
return a call from The close to Wiesel's already classified tion because of the book's Associated Press seeking com­life that "it's gen­as fiction." under "biogra­sophisticated narrative style, ment. erally -and not phies and mem­which resembles a novel. 
On Monday, Winfrey inaccurately -oirs," was No. 3 on Karen Hall, who has taught a
Jani Stran 
announced that Wiesel's classic read as an autobi­Amazon.com as of course on the "literature of trau­
Amazon.com
account of his family's place­ography." Tuesday after­ma" at Syracuse University, calls 
spokeswoman
ment in the Auschwitz death Wiesel first noon. "Night" a "trauma narrative" camp was her latest choice. wrote the book in Strand described and says such books are "Night" quickly topped the best the 1950s in such changes as unavoidably subjective. She seller list on Amazon.com, dis­Yiddish, then translated it into "unusual," but not rare. regards the book as a novel and placing Winfrey's previous selec­French. Hill & Wang, which Also Tuesday, "Night" topped plans to keep doing so. tion, James Frey's "A Million Farrar, Straus now owns, pub­both the "biography" and "fic­"For me, then, 'Night' is 100 Little Pieces." lished the original English-lan­tion" best seller lists on Barnes percent true in its call to readers 
Tuesday Febroory 7th, 2006 •7:30 p.m. 

Frey's story of substance abuse guage edition in 1960. Wiesel's & Noble.com. Barnes & Noble to remember the Holocaust, lis­
Morris Performing Arts Center 

has been widely disputed, with wife, Marion Wiesel, has trans­spokeswoman Carolyn Brown ten to and learn from its sur­
South Bend, lndiaiiG

the author acknowledging that lated the current English ver­says "some initial data that was vivors, and never to allow such he had embellished parts of the sion. supplied to us" classified the an event to take place again," 
Titkvts ovai!Qble at Morris Box Offitt Olarge by phont 574f23S.9190 ,., . " 

book, as reported by the inves­Amazon.com has been catego­book as fiction and was now says Hall, now an assistant pro­
or 800/537-6415 ~,011 ~-r

tigative Web site, The Smoking rizing the new edition of "Night" "being corrected." fessor at Ithaca College. 
www.morrlutnltr.org .. -· .......'" ·~· 

Wednesday, January 18, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Sept. 11 workers die of illnesses 
Direct link between ground zero, fatalities unclear 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-James Zadroga spent I(J hours a day toiling in tho World Trade Contcr ruins for a month, breathing in dobris-chokod air. Timothy Koller said he eoughed up bits of gravel from his lungs arter tho towers fell on So pt. 11, 200 I. Felix llernandflz spflnt days at thn site helping to search for vietims. 
/\II tlmm men died in the past seven months of what their families and colleagufls say were pnrsistent respiratory iii­IHJsses diroetly caused by their work at ground zero. 
While thousands of people who either worked at or lived near the site have reported ail­nwnts such as "trade center eough" sinee the terrorist uttacks, sonul say that only now are the eonsnquenees of work­ing at the site beeoming heart­breakingly eloar. 
"I'm very fearful," said Donald Faeth, an emergeney medieal teehnieian and of'ficer in a union with two of the ground znro workers who died last year. "I think that thnre are several people who died that day and didn't realize that they dind that day." 
Some of'fieials say it is too early to draw that eonclusion. Doe tors running different health screening programs say it will take decades to get a clear picture of the long-term health effeets of working at ground zero. 
Tho eity Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, whieh is tracking the hnalth of 71 ,000 poople exposed to Sept. 11 dust and debris, said last week that it is too soon to say whether any deaths or illnesses among its enrolled members are linked to trade center exposure. 
But Hobin llerbert, who directs a medical-monitoring program at Mount Sinai Medical Center for more than 14,000 ground zero workers, said "certainly it is not incon­ceivable" thal a person could die of respiratory disease relat­ed to Sept. 11. 
Karin DcShore said she does not need scientists 
at one point that he may have cystic fibrosis, Pellegrino said. He left the job in 2004 when he became too weak to climb stairs, and died Oct. 23 of respi­ratory ailments in Florida, said colleagues who spoke with his family. 
Both Keller and Hernandez, each with a decade on the job, were nonsmokers and had no previous health problems before Sept. 11, Faeth said. 
Zadroga, a 

to tell her what caused the death of  "This is just the tip  34-year-old New York  
her friend Keller,  oftheiceber~A1an~  detective,  
41. DeShore was a  many more people  logged  470  
Fire Department captain who took Keller to the trade  are going to die from the aftermath of the  hours at the site in 2001, including Sept.  
center on Sept. 11,  toxicity."  11, and died  
and barely escaped  Jan. 5. Family  
the south tower's collapse.  David Worby  members and co-workers  
"He  came  back  attorney  said  he  had  

coughing" two days later, she said. Faeth said that Keller told him that he coughed up debris so violently he could barely breathe on Sept. 11, and later developed emphysema. 
Keller went home to Levittown on medical leave in March. He died on June 23 of heart disease complicated by bronchitis and emphysema, the Nassau County medical examin­er's ollice said. 
Felix Hernandez, 31, worked on rescue and recovery work at ground zero following the attacks, said his former super­visor, Lt. Hegina Pellegrino. In 2002, "it started with a cold he couldn't shake ... and it kept getting worse and worse and worse," she said. 
Hernandez was diagnosed with various respiratory dis­eases and was told by doctors 
contracted blaek lung disease and had high levels of mercury in his brain. Autopsy results have not been released. 
David Worby, an attorney rep­resenting more than 5,000 plaintiffs suing those who supervised the cleanup over their illnesses, said 21 of his clients have died of Sept. 11­related diseases since mid­2004. He said he was not authorized to release their names, but represented people who toiled at ground zero, at the Fresh Kills landfill in Staten Island where trade center debris was moved, and at the city morgue. 
"This is just the tip of the ice­berg," Worby said. "Many, many more people are going to die from the aftermath of the toxicity." 
Corzine sworn in 
as governor of N.J. 
Associated Press 
THENTON, N.J. -Jon Corzine was sworn in Tuesday as New Jersey's 54th gover­nor, promising ethics reform and an end to "fiscal gim­micks" that have papered over the state's financial problems. 
The former Wall Street titan turned Democratic U.S. sena­tor took the oath of oflice dur­ing an early afternoon cere­mony. His swearing-in ended a tumultuous period in state politics that began in 2004 when Gov. James McGreevey resigned after acknowledging 
"All New Jerseyans 
a gay affair. embraced by State Senate should know my both parties fol­President lowing a series
resolve is to govern
Hichard Codey of scandals. 
the state ofNew
had been act­"I call on all ing governor Jersey as one my fellow public since then. servants to join
community with one 
"/\11 New in an historic
future."
Jerseyans effort to end the should know toxic mix of pol­my resolve is Jon Corzine itics, money and 
to govern the governor of New Jersey public business 
room, a prescription drug with a higher co-pay, meals­on-wheels not delivered, a road or seienec lab not built." 
lie has estimated that the state will faee a $6 billion gap in the coming fiseal year budget that must be approved by July 1. 
"Too often, for too long, under both parties, liseal gim­micks have been invented, recycled, and reapplied to mask fiscal realities," he added. 
Corzine also stressed ethics reform, a common refrain 
during his cam­
paign and one 

state of New Jersey as one community with one future," Corzine told the crowd. 
Corzine, 59, beat Hepublican businessman Douglas Forrester by 10 points in November. The two spent more than $75 million, much of it their own money, making their contest the most expen­sive New Jersey governor's race ever. 
In his inaugural speech, Corzine said the state faces "tough choices" and that "every dollar squandered in violation of the public trust is a book not bought for a class­-at every level 
of New Jersey government. Let's award pub­lic contracts by competition and quality, not contribu­tions," he said. 
There is a year left on Corzine's Senate term, and he selected Rep. Hobert Menendez to succeed him. Menendez, 52, is to be sworn in Wednesday. 
Corzine went into politics after being ousted from Goldman Sachs, where he had been CEO, in a power dispute in 1999. 
I le was elected to the Senate the following year. 
want to be 
Student Bodv Presidentil 
Info Meeting 
Today {Jan. 18) BPM LaFortune's Sorin Room 
All interested students are encouraged to attend to learn about rules, regulations, dates and petitions. 
Questions? 

Contact the Judicial Council at jcouncil@nd.edu 
r----· 


TAKE A STUDY BREAK $2 off Lunch/ Brunch or $10 off Dinner for Two 
Lunch Available M-F Dinner Available any Night exp. 2/13/06 
Located on Historic West Washington Street 620 West Washington, South Bend, IN 46601 57 4-234-9077 www.tippe.com 

Proprietors Warren & Linda 
lJir.sl Original'Azza in 7oa~n / 
Since 1951 
Specializing in Jtali.1n Entrees 

Tues. -Thurs.: 5:00 PM • 1 1 :00 PM Fri.· !:iat.: 5:00 PM· 1:00AM 
537 North St. Louis • South Bend, IN 
574-233-24(,4 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 12 Wednesday, January 18, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Defining personhood 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER 
Par Leonard Paula Garcia 
Ass1: MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
A~ST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
Ass·I: MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 
SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROllER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMIN1STRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students ofrhe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. C'.ommenraries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and not Jlecessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leuers to rhe Ediror must be signed and must include contact infom1ation. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer {USPS "i99 l-4000) i~ published Manday through Fric.Lr accpt during cum and ncation period:.. Asubscriptlmltu The Observer i5 $l00 forvne academic yc-.tr; $')') fur one .semencr. 
TI1c OIIM:fvtr is puhlished,u: POSTMAStER 
024 South Dining Hall Send ;~dJ.rCSll <.orr<:<:"dom to: 
Ni1trc O.tmc:, IN 46S56-0n9 The 0\'IM!nu.!t 
Period1al postage paid ar Noue Dame P.O. Box 779 
and Jddiriun.tl m.tlling offices. 014 Sourb Dining Hall 
Notre Dame. IN 46556-0n9 
The Observer is a membt:r nfthe /u.....odll.tcd Pre.1i. All rcprod.nctiou rights are 
re~crved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Megan O'Neil Kate Gales 
Amanda Michaels Chris Khorey Maureen Mullen Kyle Cassily Viewpoint Scene Laura Sonn Brian Doxtader Graphics Kelly MacDonald 

Because a zygote lacks a mind, there are only three ways to define person­hood so as to extend it to the not-yet­born. The first two are similar: one can claim that some common physical attribute (probably DNA) conveys per­sonhood, or one can claim that it is con­veyed by an immate­rial soul. This line of reasoning has given rise to the popular battle cry: "Life begins at concep­tion!" 
Many who follow this rallying cry probably used the soul argument. Therefore, saying "life begins at conception" is roughly the same as saying "souls arise at conception." Unfortunately, this last statement suffers from serious flaws, not the least of which is that it cannot be tested empirically. In my opinion, a nontrivial number of those who have been convinced of the pro-choice argument probably noticed some of the weaknesses in believing that human life beings at conception, and concluded that the rest is bunk. 
As rallying cries go, "life begins at conception" was useful, but it does more harm than good, and it is past time that pro-lifers abandoned the idea and its flaws and found a more useable alternative. The trick is to do so without compromising any of the ethical conclusions that follow from the pro-life philosophy. 
One such an alternative (and the third way of defining personhood) is not to define it at all, and instead to evoke an ethic of potentiality. The premise of this ethic brushes the entire question of the personhood of an embryo aside and creates an inde-

Lance Gallop 
Tidewater Blues 

pendent ethical (and legal) category of potential sapient life with its own spe­cific rules. In general, one always treats this class of life with reference to what it could become, because it has the active potential (as opposed to the passive potential of sex eells) to indisputably become a person, and until personhood is assured, this potential is what is most important. The moral conclusion that killing a zygote is wrong follows from this. 
I don't propose to justify the ethic here, because my knowledge is not extensive, but I will point out two problems where the ethic succeeds and the "life begins at conception" argument fails: "zygote genocide" and "human chimeras." 
The zygote genocide problem is based on statistical evidence. It is estimated that the vast majority of all fertilized eggs (50 percent to 70 per­cent) die before implanting in the uterus. If a human soul arises at con­ception, then it follows that hundreds of millions of unborn humans die undetected each year of natural caus­es, many tens of billions since the genesis of the human species. It may, in fact, be the case that far more human souls die than are ever born. 
Theologically speaking, it is certain­ly possible that there are vast herds of human souls, of which we are almost totally unaware, continually migrating into the afterlife. At least, nothing prevents it from being so. However, is this situation plausible? Does it make sense that God would be so naturally wasteful of human lives? The thesis that human souls originate at concep­tion seems to fall to Ockham's razor -it is much more reasonable to place soul genesis (as Aquinas did, point of fact) some time after implanting, and to rely on the ethic of potentiality for the rest. 
The chimera problem is subtler. A human chimera is caused by an incredibly rare event (with less than 10 known cases) where two fertilized zygotes fuse into one human person. At the most extreme, a chimera can be split down the center -male on one side, female on the opposite. Others appear normal, with cells of each zygote spread throughout the body, and most probably pass unde­tected. (One chimerical woman was not discovered until she failed a maternity test for her own children). 
llowever, chimeras become a prob­lem when one tries to work a soul into the equation. Surely it cannot be the case that two souls are cooperating in a single physical body. Nor does it seein plausible to regard each set of cells as a separate body, which hap­pens to work intimately with another, since there is only one mind. It could be claimed that one soul has died, but why should that be when its body is alive in every sense of the word, and many hold that the soul remains in the body after brain death (c.f. Terri Schiavo)? Again, the most reasonable conclusion is that fusion occurs before souls are generated. 
Hopefully I have sown the seeds of doubt in your mind that "life begins at conception" is the best route, logically and apologetically, to a sound pro-life ethic. For my part. 1 am certain that it does more harm than good and effort needs to be focused on find its replacement. The ethic of potentiality may not be the best solution, but it points in the right direction. 
Lance Gallop is a 2005 graduate of Notre Dame. Comments should be e­mailed to comments@tidewaterblues.com More ofhis opinions can be found at www. tidewaterblues.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Submit aLetter I
"The world is a tragedy to those who feel, but a comedy to those who think." 
.to the Editor at !
' .. ··.. . ,. ,., .. "· ' ,., ·' .., '··· .,. •. ·"' ·.. f 
Horace Walpole fourth earl of Orford 
'•~ www.Adsmcobserver.com ~· 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"No one can go back and make a brand new start, my friend, but anyone can start from here and make a brand new end." 
Dan Zadra American author 

t r 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Wednesday, January 18, 2006 page 13 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Examining Ali to's record 
I imagine thatthn numbnr of' Notre Dame stu­denL'i who gathnrnd around CSPAN to wateh hours of' Judge Samuel Alilo's eonlirmation hear­ings ovnr winter break is fairly small-one might say rninisculn. Most students view winter break as a nnednd vacation from the cerebral. However, in thn rnnewed spirit of academie interest at the bt~ginning of a new semester, we should all take a moment to consider the ramifications of Alita's nomination to the Supreme Court. The Senate .ludidary Committee rescheduled the vote on Alito's nomination for Jan. 24, making this the perfect time to dosely examine Alita's judicial 
rneord and tnstimony from the eonlirmation hearings. 
The first thing to keep in mind about Alito is that he was nomi­natnd to replace Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, a truly moderate and evnnhanded justice who was the swing votnr in controversial and influential casns including the separation of' church and state, dvil rights and abortion. I lind it both f'rightnning and illu­minating how the same far right 
that bmnoaned nominee I Iarriet Miers as not eon­servativn enough has rejoiced in Alito's nomina­tion, daiming him to be a "mainstream" conser­vative. Analysis of ;\lito's rulings as a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals reveals a consistent pattern of radically conservative decisions, a pattern we can only assume Alito would contin­U!l to follow if c:onlirmed to the Supreme Court. 
Make no mistake, Alito's decisions on repro­ductive privacy, firnarms, federalism, discrimi­nation and executive branch authorities show him a wholly eonservative judge masquerading as an even tmnp11red moderate like O'Connor. In Unitnd States v. Hybar, Alito dissented to block legislation regulating the transfer and posses­sion of machine guns at gun shows. In 1996, Alito was the only judge in a court of ten to dis­sent from the majority that voted to strike down a law making it extremely diflicult for women to allegn workplacn diserimination (Sheridan v. 
E.I.DuPont de Nemours and C.). Furthering his record as a judge who rarely sides with defen­dants alleging discrimination, Alito rejected dis­crimination elaims by an African American con­victed by an entirely white jury. That ruling was overturned because African Americans were illegally barred from the jury due to their race (Hiley v. Taylor). 
Alito dissented to uphold a Pennsylvania law requiring women to notify their husbands before having an abortion (Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pennsylvania v. Casey) and refused to answer Senators who asked him if the 
I find it both frightening and illuminating how the same far right that bemoaned nominee Harriet Miers as not conservative enough has rejoiced in Alita's nomination. 

Constitution protects the right to an abortion. During the con­firmation hearings, Alito's only response regarding Roe v. Wade was that he would keep an "open mind" if the issue came before the court again. 
Considering his previous rul­ings, I sincerely doubt that Alito has an open mind regarding abortion. It's especially impor­tant and pertinent to current events to examine Alito's 
defense in 1984 for Attorney General John Mitchell's illegal domestic surveillance. If you are troubled by the thought of the National Seeurity Administration eavesdropping on your phone ealls, you should be equally troubled by Alito's nomination. 
The eonstitutionality of abortion, free speech, discrimination, domestic spying and other such issues are certain to come before the Supreme Court in the time that Alito would serve as a Justice. These issues eoncern the hard won free­doms of all Americans and, given his record, Alito simply cannot be trusted to protect those freedoms. 
John Trippi 
Notre Dame College Democrats 
sophomore 
Zahm Hall 
jan. 17 
U-WIRE 

A King's legacy 
Because he dared to dream, we all continue to dream. 
Monday marked Martin Luther King, .Jr.'s birthday, and the nation celebrated by remembering this remarkable man and everything for which he stood. 
His concept of "somebodiness" symbolized thn importance of the worthiness of humans. This idea inspired 
Staff

millions of African Americans to rise above 
Editorial

the racism and oppression they were facing in America. 
King stood for equality and peace for every­Daily one. His nonviolent approach to marching and Mississippian demonstrating proved his love for all people. University of 
In his famous "I Have a Dream" speech, Mississippi King dreamed "that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed: 'We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men arc created equal' .. . that one day on the red hills of Georgia the sons of former slaves and the sons of former slave owners will be able to sit down together at a table of brothnrhood ... that one day even the state of Mississippi, a desert state, sweltering with the heat of injustice and oppression, will be transformed into an oasis of freedom and justice ... that my four children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character." 
King's dream lives on today. Though we have eome a long way, there is stillmore distance to bn traveled. We should all remembnr King's words as we celebrate his birthday, and every day. 
We should all continue to strive to reaeh King's dream. 
Yesterday was a day ofT for many workers, but we shouldn't consider it just another day off. 
We should use such a day to remember King's many accom­plishments and to challenge ourselves to beeome better citi­zens. 
We should live up to and beyond King's dream. 
Educate yourself about King and about how to make this world a better place for yourself and for others. It will continue to make this world better for your ehildren and for future gen­erations. 
Peaee and equality for everyone is a goal we can achieve. 
This editorial originally appeared in the Jan. 17 issue ofthe Daily Mississippian, the daily publication at the l!nillersity of Mississippi. 
The lliews expressed in this editorial are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Obserller. 
U-WIRE 
Dangerous tin1es unify 
The world is ollnn said to bn shrink­ous to the extreme. 
ing. Sadly, smallor does not equate to In this situation, it speaks volumns to 
safnr. how far diplomacy has come. Af'tnr a 
The intnrnational story of the momnnt World War that loll eountries likn Iran 
is how to deal with thn Middle Eastern shattnrnd, we still struggle to agree. 
nation of Iran. Now the First World is accused of 
l'lac:Hd bntwnnn tho Staff hypocrisy fi.1r holding nuclear arms but 
hotbPds of Iraq and Editorial not allowing others to do so. 
Al'ghanistan, what The history and status of Iran eannot 
Iran dm~s intnrna­be avoided. The fundamentalist Islamic 
The Gamecock 

tionally ran potnn­Hevolution has given us an Iran that
University of

lially all'nd tens of hangs homosexuals and allows brutal 
.'iouth Carolina 

thousands of coali­violnnee against women. The qunstion 
tion troops in the we need to ask is wlwrn we distinguish 
mgion. eultural and morality rnlativity. 
Hight now. Iran's foeus is developing Danger is not something we should be 
nudoar woapons. foreod to live in. Thorn is no moral code 
It is not an Arab country, but it still that should allow for a nation likn Iran sits with an aggrnssive stanen against to bully and throaten neighboring coun­lsnwl. It is almost universally agrnnd on tries. If wo want to live in a small world, by thn world that Iran should not get wn nend to stop alienated eountrins like thoso wnapons. Iran being able to destroy it. 
Thn Europnan Union, UnitndStates and Hussia havn finally found a com­This editorial originally appeared in mon ground basml on fear. The tragndy tiU' Jan. 17 issue ofThe Gamecock, the of a potential nudear disaster is shared daily publication at the University of by all of us, rngardless of nation or reli­,C.,'outh Carolina. gion. Celebrating thn unity of the The views expressed in this editorial monwnt would be ideal. Unli>rtunately, are those ofthe author and not neces­what wn are unified against is danger-sarily those ofThe Obserller. 
A case for open dialogue 
Confirmation hearings for Supreme diset~rnibln record on key lngal issuns, Court nominee Samuel Alito wrapped up many qualili1~d eandidates, particularly law Friday. While we learned much about profnssors, will inevitably be p<L'isnd over. Alito's logal acumen, personal character While a nominnn like Alit11 will have a long and judicial temporament, evrm the most legal track rncord and thus discernibh• careful observer would lngal views, it is possible for such a eandi­have boon unable to Staff date to wiggle out of thosn views during ascertain mueh about Editorial Senate hearings. A wnll-nstablislwd law his judicial philosophy. prolhssor simply could not do that. It is Frankly, this board The Daily worrisome to think that futuro legal stu­finds this state of Princetonian denL'i may have to decide early on bntwmm affairs disappointing. Princeton a earner in the aeadmny and a earner on 
This eritidsm is not University the bench. This inevitably diseouragns stu­necessarily directnd at dnnL<> interested in serving in tho eourL'i Nito. Confirmation from also eontributing their talenL'> to the hearings li>r judkial nominees have degen­academy, while at tho same time eliminat­erated into little morn than opportunities ing thoughtful and tahmtnd scholars from fi1r f.,'Tandstanding snnators to appeal to the pool of pottmtialjudieial nominens. their rnspective special interest<;. And dur­This situation cannot be good for our stu­ing the moments in whieh senators are not denL'i or fbr our country <L'i a whole. playing to their bases. they are busy trying The concept of open and honest intnllnc­to lind some "smoking gun" with whieh to tual dis1:ourso is one to which the snnators derail tho judicial nomination. of the Judiciary Committm~ should <L'ipirn. 
Indeed, the naturn of'last week's hear­In doing so, not only will thny learn morn ings was th1~ result of a frustrating eyde: about the individuals who seek to make the When laced with tight-lipped nominees, IngaljudgmenL'i that will allhct millions of some senators begin to ask questions Amerieans, but also they will help to designed to elicit an incriminating sound­nwerse tho trnnd of nominating judges byte. Knowing this, nominees are encour­with no background. This can only bnnelit aged to say as little as possible of sub­the judicial process, particularly li>r those stance in rnsponso to questions. This cyde students who hope to bneome produetivn 
Want to be a columnist, copy editor or illustrator for Viewpoint? 
E-mail Sarah at Viewpoint~t@nd.~~u 
seemed to be in full swing as Alito's rela­members of tho judieial branch in the tionship with Concerned Numni of future. Princeton, a controversial conservative alumni f.,'Toup that has become defunct, This editorial originally appeared in the drew a considerable amount of attention Jan. 17 issue ofThe Daily Princetonian. but brought little new information to light. the daily publication at Princeton 
This state of allairs should be troubling llnizmrsity. f(>r aspiring law studenL<; across tho coun­The lliews expressed in this editorial are try. If the new standard for pieking fic~deral those ofthe author and not necessarily judges becomes seleeting those without a those ofThe Observer. 

--------------. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, January 18, 2006 
-------~-­
GOLDEN GLOBES RECAP 

Golden Globes offers surprises, laughs 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'Chronicles of Narnia' a charm_ing, faithful book adaptation 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN Assistant Scene Editor 
"The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe" has received a great deal of press, but most of it hasn't actually dealt with the film itself. 
Most press has focused on how the film compares to the massively popular "Harry Potter" franchise or analyzed how much of author C.S. Lewis's Christian themes made it into the movie. 
Fortunately for viewers, director Andrew Adamson's adaptation of "The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe" surpasses these 

narrow cate­but they still
The Chronicles of Narnia:
gories and can manage to hold be enjoyed by all The Lion, the Witch, and their own in a audiences, multi-million
the Wardrobe

including fans of dollar movie, the entire Narnia 
especially con­series. sidering how 
"The Lion, the much green Witch and the screen work
Director: Andrew Adamson 

Wardrobe" was involved in
Writer: Ann Peacock 

chronicles the the film's pro­
Starring: Georgie Henley, Skandar Keynes, 
adventures of the duction.
Anna Popplewell and William Moseley 

Pevensie chil­Tilda Swinton 
dren, who dis­cover the magi­cal realm of Narnia in the back of a wardrobe. The four children, Peter (William Moseley). Susan (Anna Popplewell), Edmund ISkandar Keynes) and Lucy (Georgie Henley), soon find themselves embroiled in a battle between the forces of good and evil in a land they never knew existed. 
Narnia has been in a state of perpet­ual winter under the rule of the tyran­nical White Witch, Jadis (Tilda Swinton), who maintains her power 

through a mix of spies, treachery and evil magic. She fears the arrival of the children, because they are an integral part of the prophesy that foretells the return of Asian the lion (Liam Neeson), who possesses the power to overthrow the witch. The children find themselves drawn into the battle for control over Narnia, and in the process, the four children learn a great deal about them­selves and the relationship they have with each other. 
The four actors who portray the Pevensie children do a decent job in the film, considering that they have to shoulder much of the acting burden in the movie. They aren't quite as adept at acting as their peers in the "Harry 
Potter" films, 
manages to 

steal the movie with her portrayal of the White Witch. Iler distinctive appearance, coupled with a convincing portrayal of evil, makes her an extremely effective vil­lain and allows her to steal every scene in which she appears. She manages to create a terrifying bad guy that still manages to be appropriate for a chil­dren's tilm. 
The film's most impressive scenes between the forces of good and evil are entertaining, but they seem very remi-
Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 

The four young leads of "The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe" enter a strange new world in the film based on books by C.S. Lewis. 
the movie. 
Overall, "The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe" manages to prove what critics expected wrong. It isn't simply a "Harry Potter" rip-off, and it doesn't push a Christian agenda, as many expected. It is an entertaining film that is appropriate for all viewers, and, as a bonus for the studios, will probably prove to be a very lucrative franchise in the future. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
By CASSIE BELEK 
Scene Writer 
"Brokeback Mountain" surprised no one when it won four categories at Monday night's 63rd Annual Golden Globe Awards, but the evening was still filled with plenty of pleasant surprises and humorous acceptance speeches. The latter may be attributed to the free booze at the awards, an aspect that dis­tinguishes the ceremony from the Oscars. 
Unlike the more formal and traditional Academy Awards, the Golden Globes are presented during a dinner party-the food and alcohol give the affair a more festive tone than its counterpart. Presenter Harrison Ford even brought his drink on stage and made co-presen­ter Virginia Madsen hold it. 
Ford's behavior certainly was not the oddest event of the evening. S. Epatha Merkerson, winner for her role in the made-for-TV movie "Lackawanna Blues," openly declared she was having a "major hot flash." Steve Carell, winner for his role in "The Otlice" on NBC, read a speech he said his wife wrote and was filled with multiple praises and thanks to none other than his wife. And finally, Geena Davis who won for her role as the President of the United States in "Commander In Chief," told a touching story of a little girl who said that because of her, she wanted to be presi­dent. Actually, Davis said, she made the whole thing up, but not before the story garnered admiring applause. 

"Brokeback Mountain" took home Best Motion Picture -Drama, and Ang Lee won Best Director for the movie. On the other side, "Walk the Line" won Best Motion Pictur.e -Musical or Comedy, and its stars, Reese Witherspoon and Joaquin Phoenix, both won for Lead in a Musical or Comedy. Felicity Huffman lost for "Desperate Housewives," but won Best Actress in a Drama for "Transamerica," and Philip Seymour Hoffman won Best Actor in a Drama for "Capote," beating out perennial favorite Russell Crowe and breakout stars Heath Ledger and Terrence Howard. 
The television part of the awards offered some shocking upsets, most notably Mary-Louise Parker winning Best Actress in TV Series -Musical or Comedy over four "Housewives" for her role in the Showtime series "Weeds." Sandra Oh, who got lost on her way to the stage, won for her supporting role in "Grey's Anatomy" and Hugh Laurie got a win for Fox for his lead in "House." It was no surprise when "Lost" won Best TV Series -Drama and "Desperate Housewives" won Best TV Series ­Musical or Comedy, even though the competition was exceptional in both cat­egories. 
With the Globes over, the entertain­ment industry can now focus on the grand-daddy of them all-the Academy Awards. The Globes often successfully predicts Oscar winners, but too much can happen between now and March 5, as was seen last year when "Million Dollar Baby" beat both Golden Globes winners "Sideways" and "The Aviator." 
courtesy 

The "Brokeback Mountain" table celebrates its Best Picture Golden Globe win with a bottle of champagne. The picture also won Best Director for Ang Lee. 
Oscar nominees are announced January 31, and two films that were missing from the Globes' best picture categories -"Crash" and "Capote" -are expected to be among the nominees for the Academy Awards. "Brokeback" may be the current favorite, but the addition of those nominees would put it into a whole new competition that it may not win. 
However, the Globes may be dead on for the best actor categories. As of now, Best Actress competition boils down to Reese Witherspoon and Felicity Huffman, and Best Actor comes down 

niscent of similar scenes in the "Lord of the Rings" films. It is admirable, though, that the makers of the film managed to pull off a convincing battle sequence with no blood and very little on-screen violence, which keeps it acceptable for children. 
All of the CGI in the movie, especially the digitally-created characters like Asian, is very impressive. It is good enough to create the magical atmos­phere necessary for the film to work, but it is real enough so that it doesn't detract from the beautiful scenery in between Philip Seymour Hoffman and Joaquin Phoenix. Now that all four actors have won the Globe, there is no doubt they will be among the Oscar nominees. 
Hollywood has only a few weeks to regroup and decide who it wants to crown with Oscar gold, but Monday night was all about the Globes, which has gained significant prestige over the years. Movie and television stars gath­ered for one night to honor the year's best and take advantage of the open bar. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 



NSIDER 
O
THE 

Wednesday, January 18, 2006 BSERVER Ohio State 34, Notre Dame 20 
Ohio statement 
Irish lose 2006 Tostitos Fiesta Bowl, 34-20, as Buckeyes' offense rolls 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Wri rer 
TEMPE, Ariz. -Notre Dame scored in only six plays on the opening possession of the 2006 Tostitos Fiesta Bowl Jan. 2, but Ohio State's response was just as quick and even more nrnphatie. 
Thn Bucknyes (I 0-2) scored throe touchdowns bnl'ore half­limn and did not surrnnder points again until tlw 4:25 mark of thn third quartnr. as No. 4 ( lhio Stale narrwd a :H-20 win ovnr No. h Notrn Damn (9-3) on Jan. 2 at Sun DPvil Stadium hPforP 7h, I1J(J fans, tlw largtlSt Tostitos l:insta Bowl tTowd in a non-dwrnpionship ganw. 
"Tlwy dnfinitPiy wnrn thn bnt­tnr tParn today," Irish roach CharliP Wnis said rnattPr-of­l'actly following tlw gamo. 
Tlw t~ommon t.lwmn in tho post-ganw Notrn Damn locker room was that tlwrn was noth­ing olsP to say. Ohio State post­Pd (, 17 yards of total offense, almost :wo morn than Notre Danw's :{4S. Irish quarterback Brady Quinn was hnld without a touchdown pass for thn l'irst ganw all season, while Bu<:knyns signal-eallnr Troy Smith cornpletnd 19-of-28 attnrnpts for :H2 yards and two touchdowns. 
Tho Bucknyns dominated the box seorn, but the Irish still worn just one down away from sntl.ing up thnir ofTonsn to com­pinto a latn-garnn eomnback. 
Sc~oring twictl in thn second half and holding Ohio State to two f'inld goals, Notrn Dame was down 27-20 with 4:45 rnrnaining wlwn the Buckeyes hngan tlwir final drive. 
Ohio State started on its own 15-yurd linn and got a first down to tlw 26, but Notre Damn's dnfonso tightened, hold­ing the Buckeyns to -1 yards on first and socond down. 
"We thought we wern gonna stop thorn," Irish strong safnty Torn Zbikowski said. "Wo worked a lot on the four-minute kir~d of' ~!rill trying to stop their oflnnse. 
But Smith nsc:apnd the grasp of Irish defensive end Honald Talloy on 3rd-and-11 and hit wide reeeivor Anthony Gonzalnz for tho first down. Then Ohio State tailback Michanl Pittman (21 carries, 
136 yards) look the rwxt play from scrimmage 60 yards for tho touchdown to seal a Buckeye victory. 
"Looking at film, our eoadw~ got us very prepared, Zbikowski said. "Wo kind of' saw everything tlwy worn going to throw at us, but they just outplayed us today." 

Notre Darno nevertheless found itself in position to tie the game late, and a crucial third quarter call also prevented the game from bning even closer. 
Down 21-7 at the half, the Irish scored the first second half points on a 10-yard Darius Walker touchdown run, his sec­ond of three on the day. Place­kicker D . .J. Fitzpatrick missed the extra point to make the seoro 21-13. And Ohio State seemed unfazed with a 44-yard completion to wide receiver Ted Ginn, Jr. (X catches, 167 yards, one touchdown) on first down to the Notre Dame 21-yard line. 
But three plays later, Buekeyes wide receiver Anthony Gonzalez fumbled a completion on 3rd and 12 deep in Notre Dame territory. Irish strong safnly Tom Zbikowski scooped up the fumble and scampered the field's full length for the score. 
Not so fast, said the referees -first by throwing a !lag, then by reversing the play entirely. 
"I think everyone who saw the scoreboard saw what hap­pened. I guess everyone has their own opinion," Irish wide receiver Jeff Samardzija said. "I guess the refs have their own opinion, too." 

First, Notre Dame defensive back Leo Ferrine was called for a block in the back, negating the touchdown. But then the ref­erees reversed 
The Irish were counting their blessings to even be in the game when the fourth quarter arrived. Ohio State's defense held strong almost all game, led by 12 tackles (nine solo) from star middle linebacker A.J. Hawk. And Irish receivers dropped several passes early 
that  stalled  
drives.  
Notre  Dame  

the original call, "Our coaches got us senior lineback­
deciding upon ers Corey Mays
very prepared ... but
further revinw and Brandon that Gonzalez they just outplayed Boyte led their had not estab­us today." team in tackles lished possession in their final prior to the fum­game with 12 
Tom Zbikowski
ble. and 10, respec­
The ruling was Irish strong safety tively. But in the incomplete. Ohio first half, the State settled for Buckeyes offense a 40-yard field also never goal and also escaped retaining missed a boat. just a one-point lead heading Ginn scored on a 56-yard into the fourth quarter. touchdown pass on the 
"That was the play," Weis Buckeyes' lirst possession of' tho said. "What! said to the official game, sneaking by what cor­on the field is I hope your guy nerback Ambrose Wooden upstairs was right because that called a "busted coverage" dnep changed the whole complexion down the left sideline with of the game." 10:02 remaining in the first 
quarter. Ginn scored again at the 
14:16 mark of the second quar­ter on a 6S-yard end-around down the left sideline, beating Talley to the end and <'.oasting the rest of' tho way. 
Thc~n tho Bucknyns forced a punt and appeared poised to score again when Smith and Ginn could not eonnncl on a pitch, and Notre lhtmn's Wooden recovernd tlw fumble on the Irish 9-yard linn. 
But the Irish wnre f'orcnd to punt again, and four plays latnr. Ohio State wido rnc~nivnr Santonin llolnws caught an S:i­yard totu:hdown pass (2:21 rnmaining) from Smith, who also gained (>(, yards rushing in addition to his nnar-f'lawiPss passing numhcws. 
"As you watelwd Troy throughout his earner. clvnry day in praetkn, he lnarns a lit­tle sornnthing and gnts lwttnr. and he l~mrns from nvnry ball gamn," Ohio Statn coach .lim Tressnl said. 
Tlw Irish again c:ould nwunt no offensive monwnturn wlwn they began thn nnxt drivn wit.h 
2:16 rmnaining, and Ohio Statn thnn drove downfield to sot up a 28-yard fic~ld goal attnrnpt as time expired. 
Notre Dame f'rne saf'nty Chinedum Ndukwe blocked tho attempt-the f'irst of' two by the Irish -to prevent a largor deficit than the 21-7 halftimn Ohio Statc1 lead. but the Irish went into the locker room still aware they had gotten their "butts kicked" for the game's first 30 minutes, Wooden said. 
The seeond half' efl'ort was not enough, lnaving all Irish players in the post-game locker room despondent despite the snason's success in comparison to reennt years. 
"We did have a great season, but it just doesn't f'enl as good when you don't execute in the last game," Walker said. 
Irish tight end Anthony Fasano, who a wenk later would dnelarn himself nligible for the 2006 NFL draft, put the loss in pnrspeetive. 
"This tnam has a lot of char­acter," ho said. "It went against what a lot of people worn say­ing in tho bnginning of the year. And evnn though we've had some disappointing losses and coming out horn with a disap­pointing loss, I think the snason is still a success. 
"I think we made some great strides. W<~ 'ro back on tho map, and we set up a lot for tho future." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
player of the game 
Troy Smith 

Ohio State:<; quarterback completed 19-of-28 passesfor 342 yards and two touchdowns. rushed for 66 yards and directed the offense to 617 total yards 
stat of the game 
275-62 
Ohio State's net rushing total com­pared to Notre Dame's, an indicator ofthe deficit the lrishfaced and the dominance ofthe Buckeye offense 
play of the game 
Incomplete ruling on Ohio State wide receiver Anthony Gonzales' fumble 
Irish strong safety Tom Zbikowski's return would have given the Irish possession and a chance to tie 
quote of the game 
"We were lucky }or it to be 21-7 at halftime. It very easily could ~ave been a three-score game. 
Charlie Wels Irish coach 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Wednesday, January 18, 2006 
report card 
C+ 
quarterbacks: Quinn threw no intercep­tions and dealt with uncontained pres­sure and dropped passes, but the junior 
also did not throw a touchdown pass and the offense scored just 20 points. 
running backs: Notre Dame ran the ball 
A-well when it could afford to. Walker wac; the only bright spot on the offense, scor­ing three touchdowns and gaining 93 yards on just 16 carries. 
C-
receivers: Stovall caught nine passes for 126 yards and Shelton showed up late, but Samardzija dropped a few passes and 
Fasano was a non-factor. The receivers could not get open when it mattered. 
C-
offensive line: The unit run-blocked well, especially early on, but the line did not protect Quinn and never found a consis­
tent rhythm. Ohio State's front seven dominated throughout the day. 
defensive line: The Irish had zero pres­
F 
sure on Buckeyes quarterback Troy 
Smith. and when they did, they could­
n't tackle. Antonio Pittman gained 136 yards rushing, as well, as Notre Dame surrendered record yardage. 
c 
linebackers: Mays and Hoyte each fin­ished with double-digit tackles, but Ohio 
F 
State ran the ball well and did whatever it wanted on the offensive end. defensive backs: Even ifNotre Dame had scored more points, the Irish secondary proved it could not contain Ginn and 
Holmes. Zbikowski's negated fumble return almost swung the momentum, but not quite. 
B 
special teams: The unit blocked two field 
+ 
goals and did not surrender any big 
returns. Fitzpatrick missed one extra point, but it didn't hurt the Irish much. 
c 
coaching: Notre Dame seemed prepared and determined for the first 2:01 of the game, then the wheels came off. 
Whether it was due to Weis or person­nel, the Irish didn't get it done. 
1.86 
overall: The Irish performed well consistently in the 2005­06 season. The team that showed up Jan. 2 was a mere shadow of itself. 
adding up the nuinbers 
Total yards of Ohio State offense, the most ever gained against Notre Dame in a single game. The previous record was 610 yards, 
617 
set by USC in 2002. 
6 6 6 6 
Percentage of successful Ohio State third-down conversions. The Buckeyes • were 8-for-12. 
Average yards per completion from Buckeyes 
18 
quarterback Troy Smith to his receivers. 
Total combined receiving yards by Ohio State wideouts Ted Ginn, Jr. (eight catch­
291 
es, 167 yards) and Santonio Holmes (live catches, 124 yards). 
Number of touchdowns scored by Notre Dame sophomore running back Darius Walker, one short 
3 
of the Tostitos Fiesta Bowl record held by Arizona State's Woody Green (1972 vs. Missouri). 
0 
Number of touchdown passes thrown by Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn, the only time all season the junior was held scoreless. Quinn's previous season­
low had been his lone touchdown pass against Michigan on Sept. 10. 
Number of starters the Irish will lose to graduation 
7 
and/or the NFL draft. 
76,196 
Attendance of the 2006 Tostitos 
Fiesta Bowl, the bowl's largest in a non-championship game. 


TEMPE, Ariz. -It might not have felt like one, but Notre Dame left Tempe with a win. 
No, the Irish didn't earn a victory over Ohio State in the Tostitos Fiesta Bowl. Troy Smith, Ted Ginn, Jr. and 
A.J. Hawk made sure of that. 
But Charlie Weis' team came away from Arizona with something 

Mike Gilloon

more important than a victor's 
Sports Editor 

trophy and a tan -motiva­tion. 
All that was needed for Notre Dame to be everyone's preseason No. 1 pick in 2006, besides the early departures of Vince Young and Reggie Bush, was a convincing Irish victory over the Buckeyes in the final Fiesta Bowl to be played at Sun Devil Stadium. 
But Weis' first season didn't end like it was supposed to. 
Maurice Stovall's final game came to a conclusion without a touchdown. 
Mark LeVoir and Dan Stevenson's dedicated careers hit a scarlet­and-gray dead end. 
Despite the frustration of many underclassmen for not giving the seniors a better going-away party, this loss could be the best thing to happen to the Irish. 
With Brady Quinn, Jeff Samardzija and most other starters returning, the team will be as tal­ented as any in college football next season. 
After the loss, that talent is much hungrier-617 yards hungrier, in fact. 
That's the amount of total offense Jim Tressel's Buckeyes racked up on Notre Dame. 
The Irish coaches' task of keep­ing egos under control suddenly became a little easier after Ohio State blew past Notre Dame in a game that wasn't as close as the score indicated. 
Irish strength and conditioning 
coach Ruben Mendoza should send a few thank­you notes to Columbus, Ohio, especially to Hawk and Ginn, Jr., who reminded Notre Dame that simply showing up doesn't win football games. 
It will take a pas­sionate performance to march into Atlanta in the 2006 season opener on Sept. 2 and beat Georgia Tech. It will 
With Brady Quinn, have had a different outcome if the Irish
JeffSamardzija and 
had played like they

most other starters 
know they can. returning, the team Now they have a spring and summer
will be as talented as 
to think about the 

any in college football 

loss and re-dedicate nextseason.Afterthe themselves to play­ing up to their
loss, that talent is 
potential every

much hungrier-617 
week. yards hungrier, They have just over seven months
in fact. 
take plenty of execution to topple Joe Paterno and Penn State one week later. And Reggie Bush or no Reggie Bush, winning at USC in next year's regular-season finale will require intense focus. 
Regardless of how well Smith ran the Buckeyes' offense and how effectively Hawk stopped the Irish running game, it was the lack of passion, execution and intensity that clouded Notre Dame's experi­ence in the Valley of the Sun. 
As he has insisted all season, Weis says the play of the team rests mostly on his shoulders. He is not a genius, a miracle worker or a messiah -just a few of the names for the coach thrown around by Notre Dame fans in 2005. 
Weis is a football coach, a very good football coach, but too often the media and fans tag Weis and others in his business as miracle workers before a miracle is per­formed. 
There was no miracle in Tempe. 
Instead, one team was outplayed 
by another in a 
game that could 
before their next 

game. That's 227 days the Irish have to work toward a 2006 season with a happier end­ing than 2005 -a long time to wait for a team hungry for a chance to show it's better than it looked on Jan. 2. 
Weis will surely give them plenty of food for thought. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not those of The Observer. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd. edu 
Wednesday, January 18, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Walker upset for outgoing seniors 

Sophomore running back maintains solid Irish rushing game 
By PAT LEONARD Spons Wrirer 

TEMPE, Ariz. -Darius Walker has two morn years of eligibility in a Notre Damn uniform. D.J. Fitzpatrick, Brandon lloyte, Mark LnVoir, Dan Stevenson, Corey Mays, Maurice Stovall and a slew of others don't oven have one. 
The sophomore running hack was expnrioneing mixed emotions in the post­gamn locker room, none of them pleasant. But hn was 
learning from "It really hurts to Weis did not thn expnri­fenl the
not be able to 

nncn, disap-Buckeyes ever
send the seniors 

pointed hn actually con­could not out right." tained Walker. honor the sen­"We really iors with a vie­didn't get shut
Darius Walker 

tory but also down !running
Irish running back 

aware he will the balll," Weis 
be in thnir position ontl day. 
"It rnally hurts to not be abln to send the seniors out right, to not send thn sen­ion; out on top," Walker said. "So I know the under­
1: Ia s s llliHl are h u r li II g f0 r that. But I guess we can use this to lwlp prepare us for going into the offseason next season, and maybn wn'll have a littltl more drive and determination to not fool like this next year." 
Walker was not necessari­ly blaming himself. lie per­sonally did twnrything he could on Jan. 2 to prevent such a fnnling for his elders. 
Thn junior carrind the ball 1f1 times for 90 yards and thren touchdowns against Ohio State, which eamn into the game ranked No. 1 nationally in run 
said. "We had to start throwing. That's really what happened. What I dncided at hall'time was I was not going to allow the tempo of the game to stay the way it was." 
Notre Dame's defense could not l'ind a consistent answer for Troy Smith, Antonio Pittman, Ted Ginn and company on Ohio State's oiTensive end. 
That meant fewer carries for Walker and more passes to mount a comeback from the 21-7 halftime deficit. 
But the game didn't start that way. 
Walker carried the ball three times on Notre Dame's opening drive, which ate up 72 yards in six plays and only 2:01. Walker's third carry was a 20-yard touchdown run. 

Careers end with proud performances 
Irish as Mays tailed 12 stops
By MIKE GILLOON 
and lloyte racked up 10. 
Sporrs Ediror 
Mays also forced a fumble, 
sacked Ohio State quarter­

TEMPE, Ariz. -Thn sun back Troy Smith once and set on Notrn l>anw's senior had two tackles for Joss. elass when the Tostitos The season didn't end as Fiesta Bowl ended in a 34-they would have preferred, 20 loss to Ohio State on Jan. but the seniors were opti­
2. But that's not without snveral players making signili­eant eontribu­lions during their final garnns in an Irish uniform. 
Maurice Stovall and Matt Shelton paced the Irish 
"/ learned a lot ... about the game of football and things aside from football. " 
Brandon Hoyte Irish linebacker 
mistic about the end of their careers at Notre Dame. 
"I learned a lot !during my time at Notre Damel," lloyte said. "I learned a lot from the coaches about the game of football and 

nweivers by combining for 14 catches l'or 178 yards. 
All of' Slwlton 's live catches eamn in the second half, with lhree eoming on a third-quarter drivn resulting in a Darius Walker touch­down run to bring the Irish within eight at 21-13. 
Linebackers Brandon lloyte and Corey Mays were llw top two tacklers for the dnl'nnso. 
llis three touchdowns fell one score short of tying the Fiesta Bowl record set by Arizona State's Woody Green against Missouri in 1972. 
Though Irish quarterback Brady Quinn had no touch­down passes, Quinn also threw no interceptions and gave Walker the room he needed to operate early on. 
"They've got a grnat defcnsn. They really do," Walker said. "We really wanted to come in to run the ball, even though we were going against the No. 1 rush defense, the goal was to run the ball. We did have some success early, but ... " 
The Irish were forced into limiting rush attempts. 
Notrn Dame 
coach Charlie 
things aside from football." 
Klckln' It 
One of the few highlights for the Irish against the Buckeyes came on special teams as Irish free safety Chinedum Ndukwe and defnnsive tackle Trevor Laws each blocked a field goal. 
Ndukwe's deflection came at the end of the first half as 

CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer Notre Dame running back Darius Walker strides forward for several of his 93 rushing yards Jan. 2 against Ohio State. 
The Irish were able to block and contain Ohio State's aggressive linebackers on the play, despite solid pene­tration by Hawk and others. 
"It seemed like the first drive we got a chance to execute and we were click­ing on all cylinders," Walker said. "And some­where along the line it just didn't, and we really never regained our composure." 
Walker finished the sea­son with 1,196 yards rush­ing, averaging 4. 7 yards per carry and 99.7 yards per contest. 
lie accounted for nino of tho team's 21 rushing touchdowns and 68 percent of its offense on the ground. Add that to his 43 catches for 351 yards and two touchdowns, and it creates a productive and efficient 
ground game that balances an offense. 
But when the opposition forces Notre Dame into passing situations like Ohio State did in the Fiesta Bowl, the strength in the running game is negated. 
"It depends on us," said Irish defensive back Ambrose Wooden, a mem­ber of the secondary that surrendered two long touchdown passes leading to the early deficit. 
"We didn't play like Notre Dame has this entire sea­son," Walker said. "So that's what really hurts about losing this game is that we lost to a team but we really didn't come to play." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Ohio State aimed to extend its 21-7 lead as Buckeyes' kicker Josh Huston lined up for a 2R-yard field goal. 
But Ndukwe slipped through the line to block the kick and keep the deficit at 14 points. 
Laws' play came after Ohio State's second drive of the second half and with the Irish still trailing 21-7. 
II us ton lined up for a 46­yarder after Ohio State had driven from its own 41 down to the Irish 29 when Laws got enough of his hand on the ball to turn back the Buckeyes once again. 
The blocks were the sec­ond and third of the season for Notre Dame, as Laws blocked a 44-yard attempt by Purdue's Ben Jones dur­ing a 49-2R Irish victory over the Boilermakers on Oct. 1. 
Packln 'em In 
The attendance at Sun Devil Stadium for the Fiesta Bowl was 76,196 -a record crowd for a non­championship BCS game. 
It was also the last Fiesta Bowl ever played at Sun Devil Stadium, as the bowl will move across the Phoenix metropolitan area to the new Cardinals Stadium in Glendale, Ariz next year. 
The Fiesta Bowl has been played in Tempo's Sun Devil Stadium for 35 years and hosted five national champi­onship games, including Notre Dame's 34-21 win over West Virginia on Jan. 2, 1989 to give the Irish the national title. 
Captains 
Captains for the bowl game were lloyte for the defense, Quinn for the offense and Mays for spneial teams. 
Coin flip 
Ohio State won the toss and deferred to the second half. Notre Dame chose to defend the north end zone and received the opening kickoff. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
•

scoring summary 
1st  2nd  :kd  4th  Total  
Ohio State  7  14  3  10  34  
Notre Dame  7  0  6  7  20  

First quarter Notre Damn 7, Ohio State 0 
Darius Walker 20-yard run (D.J. Fitzpatrick kick) with 12:59 remaining Drive: 6 plays, 72 yards, 2:01 elapsed 
Notre Damo 7, Ohio State 7 
Ted Ginn, Jr. 56-yard reception from Troy Smith (Josh Huston kick) with 10:02 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 82 yards, 2:57 elapsed 
Second quarter Ohio Stall~ 14, Notrl' Dame 7 
Ginn, Jr. 68-yard run (Huston kick) with 14:16 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 86 yards, 2:16 elapsed 
Ohio State 21, Notrn Dame 7 
Santonio Holmes 85-yard reception from Smith (Huston kick) with 2:21 remaining. Drive: 4 plays, 98 yards, 2:16 elaps.ed 
Third quarter Ohio State 21, Notre Dame 13 
Walker 10-yard run (Fitzpatrick kick failed) with 
4:25 remaining. 
Drive: 10 plays, 71 yards, 2:53 elapsed Ohio State 24, Notrl' Dame 13 
Huston 40-yard field goal with 2:20 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 42 yards, 2:05 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Ohio State 27, Notre llame 13 
Huston 26-yard field goal with 10:12 remaining. Drive: 10 plays, 60 yards, 4:22 elapsed 
Ohio Statn 27, Notre Dame 20 
Walker 3-yard run (Fitzpatrick kick) with 5:27 remaining. Drive: 13 plays, 80 yards, 4:45 elapsed 
Ohio State 34, Notre Dame 20 
Antonio Pittman 60-yard run (Huston kick) with 
1:46 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 85 yards, 3:41 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 
-------------·----­
osu 617 

passing yards 
time of possession
._I
.t.iil 
28-62 29-45-0  rushns-yards eomp-att-int  36-275•19-28-0  
6-42.3  punts-avg. yards  1-40  
1-0  fumblos-lost  2-2  
6-48  penalties-yards  7-53  
22  first downs  27  
Quinn 29-45-0 Smith 19-28-0 


passing 
. 
rushing 

Walker 16-90 Pittman 21-136 Schwapp 2-4 Ginn, Jr. 2-73 
rncniving 

Stovall  9-126  Ginn, Jr.  8-167  
Walker  7-37  Holmes  5-124  
Samardzija Shelton  6-59 5-52  Hall Pittman  2-22 2-6  

tackIns page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Wednesday, January 18, 2006 

Mays  12  Hawk  12  
Hoyle  10  Whitner  9  
Zbikowski  9  Jenkins  9  
Wooden  7  Kudla  7  
Crum, Jr.  7  Schlegel  7  


CLAIRE KELLEYfThe Observer 

A season that many believe brought a spark back to the Notm Dame football program ended with a 
thud on Jan. 2 when the Irish fell to Ohio State :H-20 in the Fiesta Bowl. A.J. Hawk and the 
No. 1-ranked Buckeyes rushing defense held Darius Walker and Notre Dame to 62 total yards on the 
ground. Quarterback and Dublin, Ohio native Brady Quinn realized a childhood dream when the Irish were paired with the Buckeyes. But Quinn threw no touchdowns for the first time all sea.<?on and Ohio State sacked him five times-two courtesy of his sister's boyfHend Hawk. Though Quinn received most of the attention before the game after setting nearly every Notre Dame passing record thi..c; season, it was the Buckeyes' Troy Smith who shined under the desert sun as he went 19-for-28 for 342 yards and two TDs, including an 85-yarder to Ohio State speedster Ted Ginn, Jr. Irish coach Charlie Weis was frustrated that his team was only down 27-20 late in the game but couldn't force Ohio State to give the ball back, as running back Antonio Pittman streaked 60 yards down the Buckeyes' sideline with 1 :46 remaining to cement the victory. Notre Dame has now lost eight consecutive bowl games, with the last win a 24-21 victory over Texas A&M in the 1994 Cotton Bowl when Quinn was nine years old. 

Irish wide receiver Jeff Samardzija stiff-arms Ohio State cornerback Ashton Youboty, top left. Notre Dame running back Darius Walker sprints away from Buckeyes free safety Nate Salley, top right. Irish quarterback Brady Quinn is dragged down by Ohio State linebacker A.J. Hawk on one of Hawk's two sacks, bottom right. Ohio State flanker Ted Ginn, Jr. eludes Notre Dame's Marcus Freeman during a return, bottom left. Irish coach Charlie Weis shouts orders to his team, middle left. 

'KING KONG' A GRAND, WILD RIDE 
without going over the top. Naomi Watts silver screen in a long while. Viewers, he fights three Tyramwsaurus Boxes By MARTY SCHROEDER stars as Ann Darrow, an actress who goes along with the d1aracters, happen upon while nutna!-,ting to kenp thom away from Sn·ne Critic along for tlw ride, literally, as Denham giant, skin-crawling insects, leeches the Darrow. There is perhaps no more enjoy­
promises her she will be a star and finally size of lions and centipedes as long as an ablo mmnent in tho film than watching 
With his "Lord of the lUngs" master­get the credit she thinks she (more arm. There are giant bats and, most Kong battle three dinosaurs through tho piece bohind him, Peter .Jackson returns humbly than Denham) deserves. Adrien impressively, dinosaurs that stampode canopy of the island's forests and thon to tlw senmn with another epie of kingly Brody, as a through the valleys down onto a plain wlwrn ho finally dnfnal'> proportions. Tho rnlcase of "King Kong" writer whom of island and T­the final one in a glorious, bono-crundting
Pro'Kong' ­
brings togetlwr a motley mix of proven Denham takes to Rex(~S whose only moment. actors, ono known li1r his comedy and tho writn his script, purpose in lifo, it The film's plot rnvolvns around Kong giant simian hims1~lf. Kong. and Thomas seems, is to eat falling in love with Darrow and how sho 
Tlw film brings the audience to an Kretschmann, as ••• A. Darrow. All of the eonllicts with hor growing fondnoss for
·······!
unknown island filled with natives and the mystnrious strangn animals that him and hnr desirn to get away from him
+Jackson brings a sense of fun and
stories of wonders too gmat to be spokon and opportunis­are eneountcrod on and b1u:k to the humans. This may snmn
excitement to his "Rings" follow-up 
of. .Jackson takos vinwors on a ride filled tic Captain this long-lost island eoneoitnd or pretentious to sonu•, but. if
+The special effects, especially the CCI
with a mysterious sea captain, a woman Englehorn, fill ereate a fun-filled disbelief is susponded for thrne hours and
Kong himself, are spectacular
in love with acting and looking for a pay­out the rest of ride that Jackson audiences allow thmnsolves to lm wowml 
+ "King Kong" is grand entertainment
dwck. a fanw-starvnd movie dirm:tor and the east. seems to have had a by the strange encounters in tlw film, this 
anchored by a strong cast
tlw plethora of ov1~rsiznd fauna that only a Onee they blast directing and is one of the most fun and nntortaining long-lost island could provide. arrive at the creating. films one can sec this yoar. 
Tlw first hour of this throe-hour carni­aforementioned island, the situation The real star of the show, however, is After finishing "Lord of tlw Hings," val ride involvos diroctor Carl Denham begins to eome apart at the seams, as the tho giant gorilla Kong. Using motion-cap­Jackson said he wantod to have sornn fun Uaek Black) bringing his cast and erew to natives capture Darrow and oiTer her to ture tnehnology, Andy Serkis brings his and with this film, ho gives us an adven­an uncharted island on a map he diseov­Kong. The oversized gorilla takes her Gollum acting chops to this gargantuan ture where seeing a giant gorilla on top of lwed to film what hn belinves will be his away into the forest, which is when the behemoth of a gorilla. The gymnastic the Empire State building seems credible. tick1~t to fanw and fortune. Jaek Blaek audience begins to have fun. The island movement employed by Serkis gives a lifo adeptly plays Denham. giving the ·right whoro Kong abides is filled with some of to Kong that would be otherwise impossi­Contact Marty Schroeder at amount of crazed genius to the eharaeter tho most wonderful creaturns seen on the ble. This is most vividly expressed when mschroed1@nd.edu 
'KONG' AN ILLOGICAL, SELF-INDULGENT BORE 
snquels are rare and good remakes even and pretty much everyone else bneomns talent, though -it takes some serious By BRIAN DOXTADER rarer. Peter Jackson adds his name to the horror-movie-osque fodder. skill to rnduce Academy Award winnnr A"istant Scene Editor notorious list of great directors who have In a strange twist of fate, "King Kong" Adrien Brody and Tnnadous J) 
litllnn victim to the remake bug, a surpris­f(Jels undeveloped in many ways, despite a singer/Golden Globe nominnn .lark Bl1u:k 
ThNn is a s1:erw midway through "King ingly high-profile list that includes Gus massively overblown running time of 18(, to non-nntities, but .Jackson somPhow Kong'" that may be one of the worst in VanSant (1998's "Psycho") and Tim minutes. The plot finds no true cohesion, manages to pull it oil'. rnennt major motion picture history: Burton (2002's "Planet of the Apes"}. which means the whole enterprise is lit­Plot holes are big enough to drivn a bus Adrien Brody and .hu:k Black are chasod To its crndit, "King Kong" starts out as fully paeod throughout. "King Kong" through, leaving a mntrie ton of unan­hy staggeringly unconvincing CGI an impnceablo period pioee, but once tho should feel adventurous and spontmwous swered qunstions like: Whnrn do thn dinosaurs and ward them oil' by (and this plot sputters to a start, it bceomos far (as the original classic was), not heavy island natives go? Or how is it that Anrw is not !wing madn up) hitting tlw raptors morn problematic:. and laborod-ovnr. and Kong are ablo to havn a monwnt in in thn faen. At tho heart of Resolution rarely thn instantly-mnpty strnnts of Nnw York'? 
Such is tlw stull' of "King Kong,'" Pntor Jackson's remake is Con'Kong' derives from the Or how do Adrien Brody and Co. got Jackson's long-awaited follow-up to his tho retooled love plot, and instead chasnd by dinosaurs and giant bugs on tlw AeadPmy Award winning "Lord of tho story. Now it's a stems from either way inland on Skull Island, yilt managn to Hings" trilogy. Critical eonsensus on tlw bizarre and highly convenient deus waltz right out when plot nncnssitatns'? movie would indicate that the din~dor has modern love trian­ex maehina or PntN Jackson may l)(J a good din~ctor, delivnrPd a phPnomenal film in the same gle between Adricn sudden character but King Kong is not a good film. It's a
+"King Kong" is bloated, poorly paced, Ppir mold as his prPvious pkturns. Brody, Naomi Watts shifts. wastn of monny, a wastn of potPntial and a
self-indulgent and over-long +The film collapses under the weight 
Critical eonsnnsus would bn wrong. and King Kong him­Though Kong wastP of talent. lie nPnds to takP a stop "King Kong" isn't a grnat film, or IWIHl a self. While in the himself is easily back and reeonsidnr what madn him so
of its inexcusable plotholes good onl'. lnstnarl, it is a rnisguidPd, ovnr­original Anne was the most interest­successful in tho first placn, somnthing he
+There is little character development and few fulfilled character arcs 
bloatml, sPif-indulgPnt picturn posing as torrified of Kong, ing character in must havn l'orgottnn -otherwise, how quality dnmna. Sadly, "King Kong," rather here she's kind of the picture, that's eould he ever possibly in his right mind than tho grand nntnrtainmnnt it wants to attractnd to him. really no.t saying think that a chasn scerw in which lw, is a train wrnck on par with the "Star Who wouldn't love a giant gorilla, espo­mueh. None of the others got much to do Academy Award winner /\drien Brody and Wars" prequPis and the "Matrix" sPquels, dally one who can take down morn than except run lrom dinosaurs and light giant Tnnaeious D sing1~r Jaek Blaek hit CCI a disappointing hut nll'nctive n~minder of one T-Hex dinosaur at the same Limn? So insects. Character arcs are startnd, thon dinosaurs in the l'acn is a good idea? what happPns when directors let success Anne falls in love with Kong (and vice­abandoned and, despite a plnthora of go to thPir !wads. versa, obviously) while Jack Black groat actors, no humans in tho lilm gener­Contact Brian Doxtader at 
ConvPntional wisdom dictates that good schemes, Adrien Brody fumes heroically ate much interest. It's not a question of bdoxtade@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 

King Kong, the eponymous character of Peter Jackson's latest epic, is a CGI Despite its flaws, "King Kong" is an impeccable period-piece that recreates 
creature whose body movements were acted out by Gollum actor Andy Serkis. Depression-era America, when the original "Kong" (1933) was actually made. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 16 
Wednesday, January 18, 2006 
MOVIE REVIEWS 

McCarthyism exposed in Clooney's new film 
By LAURA MILLER Scene Critic 
George Clooney's "Good Night, and Good Luck" catapults the audience back into the 1950s and, despite the presence of many contemporary faces (including George Clooney, Robert Downey, Jr. and Jeff Daniels), is successful in achieving an authentic aura. 
Clooney and cinematographer Robert Elswit photographed the entire picture in black and white, which creates a strikingly unique film that is both enter­taining and informative. However, while the style and flow of the film make it cin­

-ematically exceptional, at times it inter­feres with the narrative and its compre­hensibility. Instead of presenting the audience with a history of 
behind remnants of their more typical suave/romantic typecasting and fully inhabit the CBS executives they portray. Daniels is a superb contribution to the cast -he and David Strathairn (who plays Edward Murrow) are a crucial ele­ment in bridging the gap between the modern and historical film clips. 
As a whole, the film is well written, but screenwriters Clooney and Heslov some­times forget that not all of their audience members are familiar with McCarthyism. Although it is a famous event in American history, those who have little specific knowledge or experi­ence about the original broadcasting and events may be slightly confused at the beginning of the film. Despite this, the film's focus is clear, and once the audi­ence adjusts to the style of the movie, it is easy to follow. However, this initial 
confusion 

McCarthyism, presents one
Good Night, and Good Luck.
Clooney immerses major artistic in the story and 
flaw-while makes it his own. any audience The film mixes vin­member will tage television learn from thisDirector: George Clooney 
broadcasts from film, those who 
Writers: George Clooney and Grant Heslov 
the 1950s with a have some
Starring: David Strathairn, Jeff Daniels, 
corresponding sto­previous
George Clooney and Robert Downey Jr.

ryline of the inner knowledge on 

workings of CBS. As the story progresses, it is becomes less and less apparent which shots are contemporary and which are from the vaults. 
This artistic blending is made seamless through the excellence of the acting. Clooney and Downey are able to leave 

the subject will both enjoy the film more and extract more meaning from it. 
The story is very different from a typi­cal Hollywood movie in that it does not have the exciting plot line of many mod­ern films. Instead, it is much more reflective of real life. It has many char­acters that each have their own individ­ual story. It is a compilation of everyday events in the lives of everyday people that unexpectedly create something extraordinary. 
This style is to the story's advantage. The down-to-earth quality of the charac­ters and television blurbs allow the audi­ence to connect to the story and under­stand its pertinence to life as an American. The story is so authentic to the 1950s styles, manners of speech, behavior and life that it feels completely non-fictional. It becomes apparent that is it Clooney's goal to record a story, not to write one. 
Like no other movie that is out in the­aters, "Good Night and Good Luck" addresses the importance of American heritage. It leaves behind the typical themes of drama to address the issue of the common man and his role in our country. The tagline for the movie states, "We will not walk in fear of one anoth­er," emphasizing the need for Americans to confront issues valiantly at a grass­roots level. "Good Night, and Good Luck" inspires change in a country filled with fear and provides a hopeful outlook for the future. 
Contact Laura Miller at lmillerS@nd.edu 
Moss grows fat on 'The Family Stone' 
By KATIE BARON 
Scene Critic 
Every year, theaters are flooded with holiday films that emphasize the impor­tance of family. "The Family Stone," which, like its predecessors, is both comedic and bittersweet, is a contempo­rary take on this American stapl!l. Although the thoroughly modern family dynamic and the subtle manner in which the film deals with serious family issues are unique and worthy of note, overall the fllm is unremarkable. 
On the surface, "The Family Stone" is reminiscent of "Meet the Parents." Meredith Morton (Sarah Jessica Parker), an up-tight executive, travels to boyfriend Everett's (Dermot Mulroney) idyllic child­hood home to celebrate Christmas with his family. Although the Stone family wel­comes her, it is very 

The family's modern dynamic is particu­larly evident in a scene in which the homosexuality and deafness of the youngest son become a topic of conversa­tion at the dinner table. Although perhaps a bit overdone, the acknowledgement of the diversity in today's world adds interest to the film. Also, the understated scenes in which no words are spoken quietly inform the audience that all is not right with the Stones. Unfortunately, unimpressive per­formances and weak writing overwhelm these strengths. 
While Sarah Jessica Parker is generally a strong comedic actress, in this role, she is downright irritating. Meredith is obvi­ously "quirky," but while writer/director Thomas Bezucha intends for this quirki­ness to be endearing, Parker never tran­scends her character's annoying traits. 
Whether this is a result of poor writing or poor acting is difficult to say -most likely it is a result 
clear that they do of both. The same
The Family Stone

not like her. Sybil can be said for the Stone (Diane 
character of Keaton), Everett's Everett Stone. mother, is particu­:-4. Though the movie larly resistant to att!lmpts to raiseDirector: Thomas Bezucha 
Everett's plans to audience sympa­
Writer: Thomas Bezucha 

present Meredith thy for his con­
Starring: Sarah Jessica Parker, Diane 

with the family fused and intro­
Keaton, and Durmont Mulroney 

wedding ring. This spective character, 

seemingly light film departs from the comedic genre with its somber undertones, which become increasingly apparent throughout the course of the movie. 
The script has a few schmaltzy lines, but for the most part, it avoids the saccharine sentimentality that runs rampant in other films of the romantic-comedy/family­drama variety. The Stones are fairly con­vincing as a real family with real prob­lems, and the cast conveys a sense of familial cohesiveness. 

Mulroney instead comes across as whiny and a bit imma­ture. 
The two strongest performances are given by Diane Keaton as Sybil Stone and Rachel McAdams as youngest daughter Amy. This mother-daughter pair particu­larly dislikes Meredith, and although they are merciless in their treatment of her, both Sybil and Amy are extremely likable. The audience gets the sense that they behave badly not because they are catty by nature, but rather because they care about Everett. Both actresses are skilled at balancing their cutting remarks with genuine expressions of concern for Everett's well being. 
The plot becomes somewhat ridiculous when Meredith convinces her sister Julie (Claire Danes) to join her for support. Chaos ensues, and a supposedly surpris­ing, yet tiresomely predictable swapping of partners takes place. This plot develop­ment reveals a major weakness in the film -the romantic relationships between the characters are not believable. Not only do the actors lack chemistry, but the writing in most of the romantic scenes sounds as though it were stolen from a bad episode of "Dawson's Creek." 
Unfortunately, the film's redeeming qualities cannot save it from the destruc­tive influence of its other much weaker elements. "The Family Stone" has its moments, but more often than not audi­ences will find themselves hoping for more. 
Contact Katie Baron at kbaron@nd.edu 
w~dnesday, January 18, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Don't forget about MOVIES in the BROWNING CINEMA 
Caii631-FILM for a recorded list of this week's showings! 

r 
page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, January 18, 2006 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Killingsworth leads Hoosiers over Illinois 
Pittsnogle scores 18 as West Virginia dominates Providence; Villanova erases halftime deficit, beats Seton Hall 73-64 
Asspciated Press 
BLOOMINGTON -Marco Killingsworth scored 20 of his 23 points in the second half to help No. 13 .Indiana beat No. 7 Illinois 62-60 on Tuesday night. 
Indiana (11-3, 3-1 Big Ten) won for the seventh time in eight games and became only the fourth team to beat the Fighting Illini in the regular­season since Jan. 24, 2004. The victory set ofT a wild celebration as Indiana extended its home winning streak to 11 against Big Ten teams. 
Illinois (16-2, 2-2) was led by Shaun Pruitt's career-high 17 points, but lost for the second time in three games. Brian Randle added 15 points, but leading scorer Dee Brown, who averaged 15.6 points, had just five. 
Roderick Wilmont tied his season high with 17 points for the Hoosiers. Illinois jumped to a 14-3 lead. 
Wilmont sparked an 18-0 run as Indiana held Illinois score­less for nearly six minutes late in the first half. The spurt ended when he scored the final four points to make it 27-19. 
The Illini closed to 28-24 at the half when Brown connected on a 3-pointer before the buzzer -his only basket of the night. 

Indiana used a 15-6 run in the second half to make it 55­40 with 8:23 to go. 
The lllini rallied with 12 straight points to close to 55-52 when Randle completed a three-point play with 4:52 left. Brown missed a 3-pointer with 
4.5 seconds left that would have tied the game. Jamar Smith tipped in the miss to make it 61-60. 
Robert Vaden then made one of two free throws with 3.6 sec­onds left, and Rich McBride's half-court heave at the buzzer was ofT the mark as fans raced onto the court. 
West Virginia 64, Providence 
48 

Providence was No. 12 West Virginia's final tuneup before a nationally televised matchup at No. 18 UCLA. It looked like it. 
Kevin Pittsnogle scored 18 points and grabbed 11 rebounds to help No. 12 West Virginia win its 11th straight game, beating Providence on Tuesday night. 
"We didn't shoot as well as we did [against Marquette] and still won by 15 or something," Pittsnogle said. "It's a great confidence builder for our defense." 
The 11 straight wins are the school's most since the Mountaineers won 22 in a row 

during the 1988-89 season. 
"It's really good news that we're not living or dying by the three," West Virginia coach John Beilein said. "And now we can look at the next game. Everybody knows who we play." 
West Virginia (13-3, 5-0 Big East) is also off to its best start in the league since joining 11 years ago. 
"The schedule is a little bit different this year," Beilein said. "Don't give us too much credit yet." 
Mike Gansey added 18 points for West Virginia. Pittsnogle and Gansey are the Big East's leading scoring tandem, aver­aging 22.8 and 21.8 points, respectively. The two also rank first and second, respectively, in Big East 3-point shooting per­centage. 
The game was the finale of a three-game homestand for the Mountaineers. West Virginia travels to California to face UCLA on Jan. 21. 
Pittsnogle could miss the game because his wife, Heather, is more than eight months preg­nant with their first child, a boy. Pittsnogle said he will fly back or stay behind if she begins contractions. The Feb. 1 due date has tempered his enthusi­asm for the game. 

"She can go anytime, that's why I am kind of nervous about it," Pittsnogle said of the trip. "Hopefully it doesn't happen Villanova 73, Seton Hall 64 After shooting a miserable 27 when I'm out there. I'll be After Villanova played one of percent against the Longhorns thinking about it. But when I'm its worst 20 minutes of the sea­on Saturday, the Wildcats on the court, basketball is all I son, Allan Ray and Randy Foye rebounded with a decent 43 think about." took over -only this time it percent and had five players in 
West Virginia led the last­was in the locker room and not double digits. place Friars (7-8, 0-4) 33-21 at on the court. . Villanova got 12 points from the end of the first half. The There was no ranting, only a Will Sheridan, the only true Mountaineers used a 12-3 run simple message to get with the frontcourt player in its four­early in the second half to defensive program or get ready guard starting lineup. Often extend their lead. to lose to Seton Hall. left to do the little noticed dirty 
Providence pulled within "We've got to get it together," work -like setting screens eight points before Pittsnogle Foye said he told his team­and boxing out -the 6-foot-8 and Gansey combined for nine mates. "We can't wait for them Sheridan worked hard for straight points. Frank Young to role over and die." tough baskets inside and got to added four points in the push. Foye scored 19 points, Kyle the free-throw line seven He finished with eight. Lowry had 14 and No. 8 times. 
Randall Hanke led Providence Villanova did pull it together in "He played like a veteran · with 14 points. Donnie McGrath the second half and survived tonight," coach Jay Wright added nine. another tight one in a win over said. "He's the most consistent 
West Virginia's biggest lead the Pirates on Tuesday night. guy we have. That's what we was 56-37 on Young's tip-in The Wildcats (12-2, 3-1 Big count on him for." with 7:58 remaining. East) sorely needed this one He also had two big blocked Providence never got closer after their roughest week of shots that deflated Seton Hall's than 11 points afterward. The the season. They sandwiched a offense. Nearly unstoppable Mountaineers have not trailed tougher-than-expected over­while building a 13-point first­in two games after having to time win at Rutgers between half lead, the Pirates (9-6, 1-3) rally from double-digit deficits losses against then West came crashing back and shot in their first two Big East Virginia and Texas and tum­only 31 percent in the second games. bled five spots in The half. 
Providence started 0-4 in con­Associated Press Top 25. "For some reason in the first ference play for the second "You have to go out there half, it was like our feet were straight season. It lost its first and give a great effort because frozen," Wright said. ''I've got seven conference games last if you don't, you're on a losing to watch the film to understand year. streak," Foye said. it." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
Male roommate to live in 2-bdrm apt. in Hickory Village. $230/person/mo. 271-9164 
or emailliuwei82@hotmail.com Part-time sitter needed in professors home for 4-yr-old boy. 
57 4-271-1353. 
FoR RENT 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 
532-1408 
908 SBAve: Roomy 6-7 bdrm home 4 blocks to ND. 2 baths, w/d, broadband internet incl. 
Avail. 06-07 & 07-08 school year. 

327 Hill St: NEED A HOME TODAY? NEED A SECOND CHANCE? Very nice 3 bdrm home. Close to ND & Corbys. Broadband internet option. WID & alarm system avail. Move in today. 
Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 
or email JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com 
Stop overpaying for rent. 
Visit BlueGoldrentals.com 
New 3-4 Bedroom Homes, 3 full Baths, 2+ Car Garage, Fireplace, Cathedral Ceilings, 1Ox20 Deck, Close to Campus. $1700 monthly. Available Aug. 06/07, 
Call574-232-4527, 269-683-5038. 
3-6 BDRM HOMES FOR 06/07. ALSO NOW. 
329-0308 

1 bedroom apartment for rent 1 mile to campus. $575/mo. Laundry. 
Call 283-0325 

ROOM IN PRIVATE HOME. NICE LOCATION & 8 MINS. TO ND. $475/MO. CALL 574-386-7272. 
Blue & Gold Homes is offering a free pool table to all new tenants. 1­7 bdrms, 24-hr maintenance & open leases.Visit BlueGoldrentals.com or call574-250-7653. 
515 St. Joseph, 8 bdrms, $200/per­son, B&G Homes. 574-250-7653. 
1706 Logan, 6 bdrms, $200/person, B&G Homes. 57 4-250-7653. 
123 ND Ave. 3-bdrm,1.5 bath. Call 574-229·0149. 
PERSONALS 
Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5 Days from $299! Includes Meals, MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica from $499! Campus Reps Needed! PromoCode:31 www.springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386. 
Welcome Back! 


Wednesday, January 18, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC 
Rodriguez unsure which country to represent 
Yankees third basrnan eligible to suit up for United States, Dominican Republic, says he doesn't want to offend either 
Associated Press all because he didn't want to ters for tho 16-team tourna­call. "If we have the capability (Boston), outfielder Vladimir 
offend either country. ment, scheduled for March 3-to add him to ours, we dP.fi­Guerrero (Los Angeles 
Alex Hodriguez was among Ilis agent, Scott Boras, said 20, are due five days before nitely will do that." Angels), shortstop Miguel 60 players on the Dominican last week that Hodriguez had each team's opener. A player can be on multiple Tejada (Baltimore), pitcher Hepuhlic's preliminary roster not made a decision. Gene After the Dominican 60-man rosters but only onf1 Bartolo Colon (Angels), second for the World Baseball Orza, tho No. 2 oiTieial ol' the announcement, U.S. general 30-man roster, Major Leagup, baseman Alfonso Soriano Classic, but it wasn't irmnedi­players' association, said he manager Bob Watson said he Baseball Players Association (Washington), third baseman ately dear whether he would would attend to persuade A­will inquire whether spokesman Greg Houris said. Adrian Beltre (Seattle) and play. Hod to participate. Hodriguez also could be The Dominican roster infielder Aramis Hamirez 
Tlw AL MVI', eligible to play After submitting the roster included on his team's prelim­ineludes pitchf1r Pedro (Chieago Cubs). for the United States and the Monday, Dominican general inary roster. Martinez (New York Mets), Free agent outfielder Dominican H!1public, said last manager Stan Javier said he "I don't know what the rules first baseman Albert Pujols Sam my Sosa is on the ... month that he intended to was unsure whether the New are, but we'll be checking on (St. Louis), designated hitter Dominican roster but hasn't play for the Dominican team, York Yankeos third baseman those," Watson said Tuesday David Ortiz (Boston), left said whether he intends to then said he wouldn't play at would play. Final 30-man ros-during a telephone conference l'ielder Manny Hamirez play. 
NFL 
Covvher unvvilling to criticize officials after Pola111alu call 
"Our officials are doing the have a 15-rninute cooling off ball in his hands and fumbled as understand is that all of our
Controversial replay 
very best that they can do. period for players but that, he was getting up to run, then questions have been answered. overruling almost Obviously, at times, there's going "we've got some guys who eould fell on the ball. The call on the The league got back to us about to be mistakes made," Cowher probably use a little longer than field was an interception, but ref­that. It's important now that we 
cost Pittsburgh ga1ne said. "To me, those guys are that." eree Pete Morelli reversed it move on." human like the rest of us, and "Joey's eomments at the end of after the Colts challenged, ruling The Polamalu play was one of Associated Press we're moving on." the game were certainly made Polamalu had not eompleted the only a series of disputed rulings 
Following a trying weekend Cowher also dismissed line­out of frustration," Cowher said. catch. during the NFL's four divisional lilled with reversals, replays and baeknr Joey Porter's angry eorn­"But there's no conspiracy, or The call stunned the Steelers playoll' games last weekP.nd. Two n~primands, NFL ollidals got a ments that the officials were things of that nature, that's -numerous replays showed touchdowns were reversed in the strong show of support from an dntlwmined to get Indianapolis ridieulous." Polamalu controlling the ball Panthers' 29-21 win over the unlikoly source: Pittsburgh into the AFC championship The call that most upset the throughout and fumbling only Bears in Chieago, and there was Steelers mach Bill Cowher. game, calling them "ridiculous." Steelers during their dramatic upon getting up to run -and the considerable debate whether 
Cowher not only refused to Porter eriticized the ollidating 21-18 win Sunday over the top­Colts went on to seore a touch­Champ Bailey fumbled out of critidz1~ thn ollidals for reversing repeatedly during postgame seeded Colts in Indianapolis down and a 2-point conversion to bounds at the end of his pivotal upon review a possible garne­interviews, saying, "At one point, carne when Polamalu made a make it 21-18 with 4 1/2 minutes 100-yard interception during dinching inWrception by Steelors I didn't think the refs worn going diving interception of a Peyton remaining. Denver's 27-13 vietory over Nnw safety Troy l'olarnalu against the to let us out of here with a vieto­Manning pass with Pittsburgh Mike Pereira, the NI•Ts vice England on Saturday night. Colts -the NFL later said the ry." trying to preserve a 21-10 lead president of o!liciating, said in a Patriots tight end Ben Watson reversal was wrong -he gave Cowher, no doubt trying to with 5 1/2 minutes remaining. statement Monday that ran from one corner of the field thmn a vote or confidence on temper Porter's unusually strong Arter Polamalu made the Morelli misinterpreted the rule to another to knock the ball out Tuesday. eornments, said that the Steelers catch, he rolled over with the determining a catch, and that the of Bailey's hands just as Bailey 
eall on the field should have been was about to score. If the ollidals 
upheld. had determined the ball crossnd 
Cowher declined Tuesday to the goal line before going out of 
talk about that call or any others. bounds, it would have been a 
"I know a lot of talk has taken touchback and New England 
place with the officiating," he would have gotten the ball at it<> 
said. "The biggest thing to own 20. 

..
FREE SHOW 
WASHINGTON HAL SATURDAY, JAN 21 9:00PM 
SEATING BEGINS AT 8:30 PM 

... 


page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 18, 2006 
OLYMPICS 

American fans confused over host city's name 
The northern Italian city of Torino, commonly anglicized to 'Turin,' will host Winter Olympics in February 
Associated Press 
It's the Olympic version of "You say tomato, I say tomah­to." 
The city in northern Italy that's hosting the Winter Olympics next month is "Torino" to the locals and NBC. For most of us non-Italians, it's always been Turin. 
"I believe readers are seeing it on television with the NBC logo, it says 'Torino,' the Olympic Games," Ron Fritz, sports editor at The News Journal in Wilmington, Del., said Tuesday. "And then they see it in the paper, 'Turin,' and they're thinking we got it wrong." 
The explanation for the dif­ferent versions is simple. 
Sort of. 

"Turin is the English transla­tion of the Italian word Torino," said Clara Orban, a professor of Italian at DePaul University. "Standard practice in the United States is if a city name has been translated differently, go with the English transla­tion." 
That's what The Associated Press is doing. Its policy -and it was around long before Turin was awarded the Olympic Games -is to use the English version of foreign cities. It's Home, not Homa. Munich, not Muenchen. Moscow instead of Mockba or Moskva. 
And Florence isn't going to be called by its Italian name, Firenze. At least not without an accompanying map so people would know what city that is. 
"We use Turin in accordance with our long-standing style to use English names on English­language wires," said Terry Taylor, AP sports editor. "It's the Shroud of Turin, for instance, not the Shroud of Torino. And when the World Cup comes to Germany this summer, we will write that games will be played in Munich, not Muenchen. 
"Of course, in the interest of accuracy, we will not Anglicize the name in full references to the Olympic organizing com­mittee, which uses Torino, and we will not change Torino to Turin in quotations." 
The New York Times, Sports Illustrated and many other news organizations follow simi­lar policies. Travel writers at the Times, for example, have been calling cities by their English names for years. 
"For us, it's a pretty simple style rule," said Tom Jolly, sports editor at the Times. "We follow Webster's and The World Fact Book as our guide. Generally those are spelled in an Anglicized fashion." 
Even the Italians go with English translations sometimes. One of their top soccer teams is AC Milan, not AC Milano, and it's supposedly because when the club was founded, the namers wanted to stick with the sport's English roots. 
So why the linguistic confu­sion? 
The official name of the games is "Torino 2006," and the International Olympic Committee refers to the city by its Italian name. When the games were awarded in June 1999, then-IOC president Juan Antonio Samaranch announced, "The hosts of the 2006 Games will be Torino." 
After NBC Sports chairman Dick Ebersol took a trip to Turin, he decided the network would go with Torino, too. NBC has the U.S. broadcast rights to the games. 
"Dick was hearing the way the locals were saying Torino, and how it's so magnificently Italian how it rolls off the tongue," said Mike McCarley, vice president of communica­tions and marketing for NBC Sports. 
"He decided on that trip that we would call it Torino." 
And with as many as 200 mil­lion people tuning in to watch the games, that means there'll be a lot of Americans speaking at least one word of Italian for a few weeks. 
USA Today also went with Torino because that is the offi­cial name, said Monte Lorell, the paper's managing editor for 


sports. said, "because that's what 
"We had to decide what is the readers will be seeing on TV." least confusing to our readers. So, Turin or Torino. You could say the Torino Either way, the Winter Olympics in Turin, but that just Olympics will simply call the leads to confusion," Loren said. city home next month. "We decided to just make it "I think," Jolly said, "people uniform all the way throughout. will be able to figure it out." 
"I feel a little bit better that Until they do, confusion is NBC is using Torino," Lorell sure to be the rule. 
Download and RUN the updated TakeCharge for Windows from http://oit.nd.edu/security/. (Did we mention 11and run it?") 
TakeCharge is the software utility developed by the Notre Dame OIT to help you protect your computer from viruses, worms, spyware and who knows what. These nasty critters, once on your computer, can cause you BIG problems. And often at the most inopportune times--when you're in the home stretch of a 30-page term paper, for example! 
So, how's TakeCharge changed? Do you really need to run it again? 
Yes! TakeCharge does the same handy dandy delightful things it did before, plus some added tricks that make life on the ND network better and surfing the Internet safer . 
..J TakeCharge fixes a new and dangerous Microsoft Windows vulnerability that arrived with the New Year . 
..J TakeCharge sets your PC to automatically receive future Windows critical updates . 
..J TakeCharge optimizes your Windows firewall settings for enhanced network performance among all campus users . 
..J TakeCharge determines if your Windows computer is running the correct version of OpenAFS, and if it isn't, shows you how to upgrade to the latest version. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
Office of Information Technologies 
http://oit.nd.edu 


Wednesday, January 18, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish ride five-meet winning streak into new year 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Spons Writer 
Th1~ Irish continued to make a splash during Christmas brnak. extmuling tlwir winning streak to fiVIL 
With tlwir 1.120-to-1,111 defeat of No. 15 Michigan in last wnekend's tri-mont that also ineludnd Illinois. the Irish oxtnndnd a stwak that indudns two dual nwet vietorins. two invitational championships and now a tri-nHH~t victory. 
This win was espneially impn)ssivn given that the Irish had to comn from ·behind to catch the Wolverines. Notre Damn trailed Michigan by 42 points aftnr the first day and 45 points heading into the final events Saturday night. but the Irish came through when it mat­tered most. 
Katie Carroll and Casey Wagrwr sneured a onn-two finish in tho 200 buttor!ly to give the Irish tho lnad. Al'tnr thn 200 but­terf'ly. Notre Dame needed at least a sm:ond place finish in the 400 frenstyle relay to win the mnet. Tho team of Christa Higgins. Casey Wagnnr. Meghan l.innolli and Hebocca Grove was up to tho r.hallengo, seeuring a seeond-plaee finish in the event with a time of' 3:29.81 and a first-place overall finish for tho Irish. 
"I think that this meet showed we're a great dual meet team," eoaeh Carrie Nixon said. "It real­ly showed that we can rally when our baeks are against the wall." 
Last weekend's vidory gets tho new year ofT to a good start for the Irish. as they arn picking up where they left on· before winter break. While most students spent winter brnak in the harsh weather of wintnr. tho swimming 

SMC SWIMMING 
Saint Mary's falls to Alma 
Belles win just three events en route to conference defeat 
By BECK! DORNER and 
DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Sports Writ<'rs 
Alma del'natnd Saint Mary's I IIJ-(,() T1wsday. and won nine of II events in the first MIAA nwet l'or both tnams. This was a Is o tho l'i r s t nHH\ t l'o r the Bollos al'l.or a long winter training hn\ak. The Bnllos pnrl'ornwd wnll in thn swim­ming PVPnts. but l<u~k of divers hHI to a l'orl'nit in those an~as. 
Tlw Bnllos pieked up three l'i r s t -p I a c n l'i n i s h 1\ s o n t h e night. with two by Kelly Nelis. Nelis won the 500-yard l'reostylo with a time of 
5:44.51 and the 1,000 yard l'reostyle, touching at 
11:32.01. Karla McGough took first in the 200-yard l'rnestyle, finishing in 2:19.34. 
The Seots' Emily Smith took first in tho 200 IM. touching out in 2:24.43. Katio Dingnman and Katie Carroll took sneond and fourth in the raee, respectivnly. Smith's teammate Sara Swanton was first in tho 200 lly in .a time of 2::B.:~2. but Dingeman took seeond with 2:3(,.76. 
Alma's Trzeeiak was 11rst in the I00 !'roo with a time of 1:00.36, but Kelly Tighe post­ed a seeond-place finish l'or the Belles. 
Coe took first place in the 200 back while Dolan was first in the 200 breast stroke. The Scots wrapped up with a 200 !'reo relay win -Con, Smith. Dolan and Trzeciak recorded a time of' 1:52.37 nn route to the tnam victory. 
Tho next meet !'or the Belles is at Holl's Aquatic Center ver­sus Kalamazoo on Friday. The Women llornets of Kalamazoo beat Alma 158-78 a few weeks ago. The Belles will certainly look again for leadership to Dingeman. their senior cap­tain who has said prnviously that tho team is in high spirits and strives everyday to improve swimmers' individual times. 
Contact Becki Dorner at rdorner1@nd.edu and Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 


and diving team spent two weeks in warm Las Vegas. The two wneks were spent in tho most intense training ol' thn sea­son with breaks to eompeto against UNLV and North Carolina. 
"Over break. you don't have other worries such as school," said Nixon. "The point of the trip was to maintain the training, got some competition in, and give tho team some bonding time. We reminded the girls that this is the horne strnteh. and we want them to rnfoeus on our goals." 
Goals remaining for the Irish include wins in the final two dual meets the nnxt two week­ends. After that will como the Big East Championships and NCAA ehampionships. Nixon hopns that as many as 10 swim­mers will qualify for the NCAAs, for orw of' the tnarn's best per­formances ever. 
"Our perf'ormancn until now has bonn nxpndml," Nixon said. "I think the poopln who are sur­prised by our pnrf'ormanee arP those on the outside looking in. Wn expected this to b1~ a special year." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles play .500 ball over Chrisbnas break 
By TIM KAISER Sports Writer 
Before Christmas break. tho Bolles were 1-5 and prnparing to thee MIM rival Alma on Doe. 7. 
Tho Belles won that. game and split their 10 games during finals and winter brnak to run their record to 6-10. This pub thmn at lil'th plaee in the Ml/\A coming into tonight's showdown with eonli1mncB rival Albion Collegn. A win against the Britons would push the Belles up to lilllrth placn in the standings, a position now held by Albion. 
The Belles are pleased with thnir play in their last I0 games but know they have to improvo even more. 
"We've made tremendous progress," eoaeh Steve Bonder said. "Our inoxpnrieneed post play1:rs have ~:~Jrno long way. and our lrnshmon. 
Bonder believns his tnam is as good as anybody but is puzzlod about why it can't win at Saint Mary's. 
''I'm really proud of ability to play well on road," he said. "Wn've got to solve tho mystery of why wo play poorly at home. Wo need to stop it up at home, start­ing !tonight!." 
Despite the dillieulties while playing on their home court. tlw Belles had plenty of mmnorable games during the winter brnak. 
"We ean't shoot mueh bettor than we did at Kalamazoo -12 thrnes is a school reeord." Bendnr said. "We had a great garnn at Calvin and a groat game at Alma." 
When asked whic.h players had ~~arrind the tmun l.o iL-; rnennt 5-5 stroteh. Bender point1~d to his captains. as wnll as other roiP playnrs. 

"We havn l.,'roat vetnran loador­ship. IBridgol.l Boyc1~. IBridgotl Lipko, land Alison I Kossler, haw shown rnally gn~at loadorship ... and Nicoll~ Tucker has bonn shooting the ball wnll coming oil' tho bmch," he said. 
Tho Bnllns litce a ehallengP in Wednesday night's matchup against Albion Collnge. Tho two tmuns oach havo a 4-:{ rnmrd in the MIA/\, hut dnspitn thn post­season implications. the Belles think that they can boat tlw Britons to notch just their second win at homo. 
Bnndor dnsc.ribnd praetieos this woek as "just groat," adding, "Wo're starting to practkn likn a Vl)teran team." 
Tho Belh~s will rwod to haw a good week of praetico to win against Albion. a tough team with a 12-4 rneord overall. 
"Wo've got to ~~xm~ute ofllmsivn­ly tomorrow and cut down on turnovers," Bendor said. "Thoy arn a h'l'lmt tnarn dnli~nsivo team." 
Bonder b1~1ieves he has dnwl­oped a gamn plan for vietory. however. 
"It has to be our ability to stop thnir insidn game," lw said. "Tiwy have groat ball mownHmt. grPat delimsivo court eovnrage. Wn'w got to make thmn work li1r it." 
The Hellos know that a win tonight would holp them shako oil' their troubles playing at homo, and will ~~erl.ainly lwlp thl'ir eon­limmeo rneord. 
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu 



OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, January 18, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Page 22 
Men's College Basketball AP 
Top 25  
team  record  points  
1  Duke  16·0  1,799  
2  Florida  16·0  1,715  
3  Connecticut  14·1  1,616  
4  Memphis  15·2  1,490  
5  Texas  14·2  1,459  
6  Gonzaga  13·3  1,389  
7  Illinois  16·1  1,370  
8  Villanova  11·2  1,350  
9  Pittsburgh  14·0  1,291  
10  Washington  14·2  1,051  
11  Michigan State  14·4  959  
12  West Virginia  12·3  952  
13  Indiana  10·3  808  
14  NC State  14·2  788  
15  Wisconsin  14·2  757  
16  George Washington  12·1  728  
17  Louisville  13·3  716  
18  UCLA  14·3  687  
19  Ohio State  12·2  483  
20  Syracuse  15·2  423  
21  Boston College  12·4  333  
22  Maryland  12·4  260  
23  Iowa  13-4  250  
24  North Carolina  10·3  221  
25  Oklahoma  10·4  94  

Women's College Basketball AP Top 25 
team record points 
1 Tennessee 17·0 1,138 2 Duke 16·0 1,108 3 LSU 14·0 1,064 4 North Carolina 16·0 1,014 5 Connecticut 15-2 918 6 Maryland 14-2 915 7 Ohio Stale 13·2 851 8 Baylor 12·2 792 9 Rutgers 12-2 790 10 DePaul 16·1 742 11 Purdue 13·2 723 12 Michigan State 13·5 561 13 Georgia 12·4 551 14 Stanford 11-4 543 15 Arizona State 14-3 527 16 Minnesota 11-4 495 17 Oklahoma 13·4 461 18 Virginia Tech 14·1 322 19 vanderbilt 13·4 251 20 New Mexico 13·4 244 21 Temple 12·4 165 22 Boston College 12·5 154 23 BYU 13-1 108 24 NOTRE DAME 10·5 97 25 George Washington 11·4 78 
MIAA Women's Basketball 
team conf. avg. overall 1 Hope 7·0 82.4 14·1 2 Calvin 6·1 61.9 12-2 3 Olivet 6·1 72.7 10·6 4 Albion 4·3 69.9 12·4 5 Saint Mary's 4·3 61.4 6·10 6 Alma 3-4 68.4 8·6 7 Kalamazoo 1-6 56.1 4·10 8 Tri-State 1-6 58.3 2·14 9 Adrian 0·8 53.0 4·11 
around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
NC State at Duke 7 p.m., ESPN Wisconsin at Ohio State 8:30 p.m., ESPN 2 Northwestern at Michigan 8 p.m., ESPN U 
NBA 
Cavaliers at Nuggets 9 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. ­Eric Mangini has worked for Bill Parcells and Bill Belichick, learning from two of the greatest coaches in the NFL. 
The Jets are banking on that pedigree to lead them back into the playoffs. 
Despite his youth and relative inexperience, the organization hired Mangini as its coach Tuesday. The former Patriots defensive coordinator, who turns 35 on Thursday, becomes the youngest head coach in the league. 
Terms of the deal weren't known but it is 
believed he will get between $2 million and $2.5 million per year over five years. 
"Being compared to Bill Belichick is one of the highest compliments you can be paid," Mangini said. "I am not Bill Belichick, I am not Bill Parcells. I am Eric Mangini. I'm going to approach it my way. I'm going to take the experi­ences and the lessons that I learned from those guys and I'm going to apply that to my team." 
The baby-faced Mangini won't be confused with former coach Herman Edwards, who left for 
IN BRIEF 
Seahawks prepare to face tenacious Panther defense 
KIRKLAND, Wash.-Two weeks ago, Seahawks coach and former high school history teacher Mike Holmgren gave his assistants some homework for their playoff bye week -start studying the other NFC post­season teams and compile prelimi­nary scouting reports on each. 
Soon, the coaches were scribbling notes on large dry-erase boards in their offices. 
But when Washington became Seattle's first-round foe, the assis­tants erased all of the other teams' information. 
Thankfully for Holmgren, offensive quality-control coach Gary Reynolds copied the notes on the Panthers. 
"Bless his heart," Holmgren said. "So we did get a bit of a start on Carolina." 
He's glad they did. What Seattle's assistants saw dur­ing their extra studies -and what 
Kansas City last week. Mangini was reserved and low key at his introductory news conference, hardly exhibiting any of the fire and energy that is Edwards' trademark. 
But this is a new era for the organization, which hopes Mangini can instill a different attitude after the Jets finished 4-12 last sea­son. 
Much of those expecta­tions have to do with the people Mangini has worked under. 
While Mangini was going to Wesleyan, he figured he would be an investment banker. But he spent two summers studying in Australia while coaching a semipro football team. It was there he realized he wanted to go into coaching permanently. 
Mangini took a job as a ball boy with the Cleveland Browns, then went to work in the public relations department. 
He then met Belichick, who gave him a few assignments to do. Belichick liked his work and gave him a job as an assistant in 1995. 
From there he worked for Ted Marchibroda in Baltimore in 1996, then for Parcells and Belichick with the Jets from 1997­99. 

Holmgren saw on television -was an staunch Panthers defense led by athletic 6-foot-7 defensive end Julius Peppers and former Seahawk Ken Lucas in the defensive backfield. It's a unit that is sure to provide a stern challenge for Seattle's oll'ense, which led the league in points scored (452) this season. Teixeira inks $15.4 million contract with Rangers 
ARLINGTON. Texas-All-Star first baseman Mark Teixeira agreed to a $15.4 million, two-year contract Tuesday with the Texas Rangers, avoiding salary arbitration this year and next. 
Teixeira hit .301 with 43 home runs and 144 RBis last season. The RBis were the most for a switch-hit­ter, breaking the record set by George Davis, who had 136 RBis for the New York Giants in 1896. 
The Rangers also agreed to one­year deals with right-hander Adam Eaton ($4.65 million) and outfielder Brad Wilkerson ($3.9 million), avoid­ing arbitration with two players acquired in separate trades last month. 
Teixeira will get $6 million this season and $9.4 million in 2007. Hingis wins in first round of tlie Australian Open 
MELBOURNE, Australia -Martina Hingis looked as if she'd never been away. 
Playing on the center court where she won three of her five Grand Slam titles before retiring for three years, the Swiss star was right at home in the first major of her comeback effort, routing 30th-seeded Vera Zvonareva 6-1, 6-2 Tuesday in the first round of the Australian Open. 
Hingis' victory was all the more impressive in that she had so little trouble with Zvonareva, who became increasingly irritated with everything from Hingis' winners to disputed line calls, repeatedly spiking her racket and smashing balls in anger. 

Wednesday, January 18, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Firmwide Information Session 

Learn about our summer internship opportunities. Thursday, January 19, 2006 
7:00 pm -9:00 pm Morris Inn, Notre Dame Room 

Application deadline: Sunday, January 29, 2006 Apply online at gs.com/careers and through your career service office. 
1!:> Goldman, Sachs & Co. 2006. All rights reserved. Goldman SaChs IS an equal opportumty employer. 


page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 18, 2006 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish see hard work pay off in Dallas, Evansville 
ByJACK THORNTON Sports Writer 
The Irish took advantage of the break from classes with a gruel­ing training schedule, which paid off with a road win against Evansville and a fifth-place finish in the 24th annual Dallas Morning News Classic. 
Coach Tim Welsh said the training went well for his team. 
"The weather was beautiful, and when you're training out­doors, good weather makes for good training," Welsh said of his team's two-week stay in Boca Raton, Fla. "We did a great deal of training, and I think we got a lot accomplished, so from an ath­letic point of view, it was great." 
Following a 10-day hiatus after finals, the team reconvened on Dec. 27 to train at St. Andrew's High School for 15 days of brutal work. 
"We had a lot of sunscreen on," said senior Patrick Davis. "A cou­ple of people got burned, but we knew what to expect,". 
Still, the No. 19 Irish weren't there to relax. 
"We were training four hours a day, every day, and we had some­thing likfl 39 straight practices," he said. "I don't remember the exact number, but Sunday was first day otr since Christmas." 
The team makes the trip to Florida annually, but this is the first time the Irish have been invited to the prestigious Dallas Morning News Classic. The meet's format had each school sending eight swimmers and one diver. 
In addition to the Irish, this year's field featured No. 7 Florida, which took first, followed by No. 16 Northwestern, No. 14 Florida State, host Southern Methodist, Notre Dame and Washington. 
"The field was extremely tough," Welsh said. "It was a great field, and with a small for­mat, it was probably the fastest field we've raced against." 
Though the Irish finished 120 points behind J-llorida and more than 100 points behind Northwestern, Welsh expressed no displeasure with his team's effort. 
"I thought our swims were very strong, and especially strong con­sidering where we were in our training phase," Welsh said. "The guys that swam there trained every day since the 27th ... they had a right to be tired. They wer~. tired and they still raced well. 
Among the highlights were 

freshman diver Michael Bulfin capturing second place in the three-meter diving, while junior Ted Brown took fourth in the 500-yard freestyle and sixth in the 200-yard butterfly with a season best time of1:51.76. 
The team was split, however, as last Friday had the Irish com­peting in both the Dallas meet and a dual meet in Evansville. Assistant coach Matt Tallman went with nine members of the swim team to Texas, while Welsh coached the remainder of the squad across the state. Despite missing many of the team's top swimmers, the Irish pounded their in-state foes 163-73 while capturing first in nine of 13 events. 
With the win, the Irish improved to 3-1 in dual meets on the road and 5-1 overall. Davis was one of three Irish swimmers to win in two events. 
"It was good because you could see people who don't normally win events step up and score a lot of points," Davis said. "Also it was good because everyone was tired after training so long in Florida, and yet we still posted good times after that." 
The team has developed since the beginning of the year, as swimmers have matured and grown into their roles. 
"The most important part is [having two road meets] gave us a chance to race on the road right after a training period, and it forced new people to step up in unfamiliar roles," Welsh said. "I think we'll be better this week­end and next weekend because we raced last weekend." 
Contact Jack Thornton at jthornt4@nd.edu 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Team begins indoor season with solid showing at Purdue 
Irish send a select group of runners to West Lafayette in preperation for Notre Dame Opener this Saturday 
By JORDAN BELTZ Sports Writer 
While most of the student body was returning back to campus after Christmas break, a select group of Irish track and field team members competed in the Purdue Invitational, held Jan. 14 in West Lafayette. 
After the four-week holiday break, the Irish turned in a good performance, earning two first-place finishes and six second-place finishes. Although both sides notched solid starts to 2006, both first-pi ace finishes were earned on the women's side. 
The jumpers and throwers turned in the best perform­ances of the weekend, with the Irish women sweeping the high jump competition. Freshman Lauren Biscardi took home top honors, clear­
ing 1.68 meters to lead the way. Emily Loomis and Cassie Gullickson also were able to clear 1.68 meters, which meant the final order was determined by a jumpoff. 
Freshman Mary Saxer, fresh off of her NCAA qualification in the pole vault that she earned at the Blue and Gold Invitation in December, took home the pole vault title with a vault of 3.80 meters. 
''I'm pretty happy with how it went," Saxer said after qualifying for the NCAA Tournament. "It wasn't my best jump, but being my first college meet, and looking at where I am at this point in the season, I'm pleased." 
Other notable performances on the women's side of the ledger were turned in by Alyissa Hasan, who earned a berth in the Big East Championship with a long jump of 5.43 meters, and sen­ior Meghan Horn, who was the runner up in both the shot put and weight throw events. 
While the women turned in a stellar performance, the men showed a marked improvement from their first meet as well. The men saw their biggest improvement take place in the weight throw, with all four partici­pants in the event bettering 


their marks from the last meet. 
Junior Garet Koxlien lead the way, finishing second with a throw of 16.45 meters, fol­lowed by sophomore Kyle Annen in third. 
After Saturday's event, the Irish have now qualified 29 athletes for the Big East Championships in 20 different events, along with the spot that Saxer has locked up for the NCAA Championship to be held in May. 
The Irish will return to action this Saturday for the Notre Dame Opener, to be 
. held in Loftus. The Opener marks the first of three con­secutive home meets on the indoor track and field sched­ule. 
Contact Jordan Beltz at jbeltz@nd.edu 
The Development Phone Center gratefully acknowledges the following businesses which support our student caller Incentives Program: 

Notre Dame 
ANNUAL FUND 
Anthony Travel 
Atria Hair Salon 2 
Between the Buns 
Bob Evans Restaurant 
Bonnie Doon Ice Cream 
Bookmaker's Pub 
Carrabba's Italian Grill 

The Carriage House Dining Room 
Casa Del Rio 
CJ's Pub 
College Football Hall of Fame 

Cosimo & Susie's -A Bit of Italy 
Doc Pierces Restaurant 
Ehninger Florist 
Famous Dave's Bar-B-Que 

Francesco's Italian & American Restaurant 
Fun Tan, Inc. 
Garfield's Restaurant & Pub 

Grand Empire International Buffet 
Hacienda Mexican Restaurant 
Hair Potion No. 9 
Honkers Family Restaurant Jimmy John's of South Bend K's Grill & Pub Linebacker Lounge Lula's Cafe LLC NICTD (South Shore) Office Depot Papa John's Pizza Parisi's Italian Ristorante Patricia Ann Flower Shop Potawatomi Zoological Society Ritter's Frozen Custard Rocco's Restaurant Salon Rouge South Bend Regional Museum of Art South Bend Symphony Orchestra Studebaker National Museum Sunny's Korean Garden Patio Ten Thousand Villages Tippecanoe Place Restaurant United Limo Services Mishawaka Wai-Mart Super Center Wendy's Old Fashioned Hamburgers Wings Etc. 

Wednesday, January 18, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
game. He seorcd 16 conseeutive the offensive end with four players from the field while limiting point.<> during the second half. finishing in double figures. Guard Fordham to 28 pereent shooting. 
Hoops 
PitL'iburgh forward Aaron Gray Russell Carter led Notre Dame 
continued from page 28 
snssion with his own :~-point play. 
Falls l1ld all scorers with 26 poinL'> on R-of-13 shooting. lie was fl-of-11 from 3-point range. 
Pittsburgh 100, Notre Dame 97 
Quinn scored 37 poinL'i and led thn Irish back ti·om a nine-point dclieit with less than a minute remaining to foree overtime, but Pittsburgh guard Honald Ramon hit a game-winning 3-pointer in double overtime to keep the Panthers undd'eated Jan. 4. 
Thirty of Quinn's 37 points came after halftime, as the Irish point guard hit big shots down the stretch to keep his team in the seored 25 points, and guard Carl Krauser scored 22 in front of a Peterson Events Center erowd. 
Notre Dame 74, Wofford 71 

In Notre Dame's final game before Big East play, the Irish escaped with a win after Torin Frands hit two free throws with 
12.6 seeonds remaining at the Joyce Center Dee. 30. 
Wolford had a ehance to tie the game when it moved the ball up the court following Francis' free throws. Wofl'ord forward Howard Wilkerson had a look from 3-point nmge, but his shot hit off the front rim. Wilkerson led all seorers with 27 point.'>. 
The Irish were well balaneed on with 16 points, Falls and Quinn each had 12, and freshman guard Kyle MeAlarney finished with 10. 
Notre Dame 85, Fordham 49 
Notre Dame outplayed its oppo­nent from the tip, dominating Fordham at the Joyce Center Dec. 28 and earning its sixth conseeu­tive vietory in the process. 
Leading by 12 at halftime, the Irish exploded in the seeond half, outseoring the Hams 44-20. 
The Irish had live players in dou­ble ligures. Quinn led the Irish with 14 points, freshman forward Luke Zeller had 11 and Carter, McAlarney and forward Hob Kurz had 10. 
Notre Dame shot 55 percent 

Notre Dame 75, Columbia 68 
Despite being outscored 44-16 in the paint by the Lions, the Irish escaped with a victory led by their impressive free throw shooting Dec. 23 at the Joyee Center. 
Notre Dame outscored Columbia 28-6 from the free throw line. 
The Irish trailed the Lions for mueh of the first half, but man­aged to take a 34-33 lead into half­time. 
Quinn led the Irish with 18 points-15 of whieh eame in the seeond half. McAlarney added 14 points in the victory. 
Notre Dame 80, Niagara 59 
Notre Dame shot 55 percent from the field and made a season-high 12 shots from 3-point rango to defeat Niagra Dee. 21 at the Joyce Center. 
Falls scored 19 points for the Irish and MeAlarney added 16. Tho two Irish guards were 5-of-1 0 and 4-of-6 from b1\ing the areh, respeetively. 
Francis played strong inside, scoring 14 poinL'i on 6-of~ 7 shoot­ing. The Irish forward also grabbed nine rebounds. 
Notre Dame 65, IPFW 63 
Notre Dame narrowly avoided a big upset at Allen County War Memorial Coliseum, but Franeis' 24 point.'> and 11 rebounds saved tho gamo Dec. 18. 
Franeis scored the final six points for the Irish. 
Freshman forward Hyan Ayers eame up with a big defi:msive stop when IPFW had the ball with 3.3 seconds left, knocking the ball loose at the buzzer. 
Notes: 
+ Big East commissioner Mike Tranghese announced Wednesday that the Big East Tournament, to be held March 8-11 at Madison Square Garden in New York City, ha'i sold out in advanee for the first time ever. The Big Ea'it ha'i played il'i posl'ieason eonference tourna­ment at the Garden fbr 24 years. All ticket.<> were sold to "fans and constituents" of the 16 member institutions, Tranghese said. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu and Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Fencing 
continued from page 28 
specific school," junior Valerie Providenza said. "So [the North American Cupl is used to deter­mine the top fencers in the U.S., and those who earn the most poinl'i at the ond of the sna<>on go on to make the national team. But others go just to prnpare for the NCAAs or the World Cup. It all dopends on your skill level." 
In the Division I Men's Epee competition, junior Patrick Gettings lnd thn Irish at 34th, and frnshm;m Mark Kubik placed 28th in the men's foil. The Division I Sabre eompetition wa'i led by jun­ior Patrick Ghattas, 18th, and frnshman Bill Thanhouser, 24th, who r~eently earned the No. 1 ranking in the USFA under-21 men's sabre rankin)..,'S. 
"The men feneed well, it was just tough competition," Providenza said. "There are many more events for us to perform well 
in." 
Junior captain Amy Orlando agreed. 
"Fencing is a mental sport that varies from day to day. Thern are ,.. so many little a'ipeeL'i ;md teehni­eal [elementsl," she said. "We just see it as a bad day for both the men ;md tho womnn and it doesn't dktate what we should expect for the rest of the sna'ion." 
In the Division I Women's por­tion of the competition, Orlando finished 19th and fifth-year Becea Chimahusky took 21st Freshman Adi Nott led the Irish in the women's foil in 21st place. Tho sabre competition showcased sophomore Marie) Zagnis and Providenza, plaeing sixth and tenth overall, respectively. 
In the junior men's portion ol' the eompetition, Kubik finished 15th in men's foil and Thanhouser plaeod 11th in thn men's sabrn. 
For the women, Montoya placed 15th in the epee and Nott and Prot placed third and 54th in the foil. 
The Irish rnturn to aetion on Jan. 22 at the NYU Duals. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 18, 2006 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Duffy is fearless leader of scrappy Irish squad 
Just seven minutes into the sec­ond half, Tuesday's game looked to be well on its way to being decided. After playing what coach Mullet McGraw called its best half of basket­
ball all year, Notre Dame seemed about to fold. Down 51-39 after an 18-0 DePaul run, things were 

not looking  Heather  
good for a  Van Hoegarden  
struggling  
Notre Dame  Sports Writer  
team.  
But the  

Irish didn't give up. In fact, they responded by playing like they hadn't all year, coming back from 12 down and going on a run of their own while holding DePaul 
Hockey 
continued from page 28 
some bad bounces." The Irish and Redhawks tied 2­2 Friday at the Joyce Center. 
Saturday night, in front of a sellout crowd including Notre Dame's hockey alumni and sever­al pro scouts, the Irish had early chances to open up a command­ing lead on the CCHA-leading Redhawks but couldn't find the net on several breakaway oppor­tunities. 
Then, 4:08 into the second peri­od, Miami defenseman Andy Greene was called for hooking, and just over a minute later, teammate Matt Christie was sent to the penalty box for high stick­ing. 
Irish coach Jeff Jackson said he was frustrated by the early missed opportunities. 
"We're in there chirping the same things the fans are," he said. "Shoot the puck, get to the net. I can't score for them." 
Still, after playing yet another close game against a top-ranked opponent, Jackson said he saw improvement in his squad. 
"I think our team's playing bet­ter than [our record)," he said. "Our four games against Miami were all decided in the last five minutes." 
The winning goal came with 
4:32 left on Saturday, despite the Irish coming back to full strength. 
The game was marked by sev­eral after-the-whistle skirmishes, including one in the third period that sent five players to the penal­ty box -three from Notre Dame. 
"The fact is that they're playing on the edge," Jackson said of his scoreless for 8:29 and coming away with a hard-fought 78~75 victory over the No. 10 Blue Demons. It was the first win over a top-10 team this year for No. 24 Notre Dame after the brilliant sec­ond-half comeback. 

"We've had a lot of practice get­ting behind big," McGraw said somewhat sarcastically after the game. 
The Irish, after all, had lost three of their last four Big East games before Tuesday night, two by at least 10 points, and all three to unranked teams. 
But this time was different, thanks to Megan Duffy. 

The senior point guard took this team on her shoulders for the entire 39 minutes she played. And for the minute she was out of the game in the first half, the Irish looked dazed and confused, forc­ing McGraw to put her star point guard and leader back in the 
players' emotions. ''I'm happy that they're playing on the edge, but they have to keep from going over the edge." 
The Redhawks took a 1-0 lead soon after killing off the Irish 5­on-3 early in the second period. 
Notre Dame responded after two more Miami penalties left them with their second 5-on-3 of the game at 10:40 of the second period. This time they capitalized as O'Neill rocketed home a shot from the point. 
"I just got a good pass from [freshman Erik] Condra, and the puck found the net," the junior said. 
The Redhawks took the lead again two minutes later, which lasted until the 9:54 mark of the third period when Irish defense­man Noah Babin slapped a long rebound in from the point to tie the game at two. 
The loss dropped the Irish to 7­12-3 overall and 5-8-3 and sev­enth in the CCHA. Their 2-2-2 mark during Christmas break included a four-game unbeaten streak bookended by frustrating losses. 
The break began with a 4-0 home defeat to Lake Superior State Dec. 17, but Notre Dame bounced back the next day to beat the Lakers 4-3. 
After heading home for Christmas, the Irish were next in action Jan. 6 and 7 at Nebraska­Omaha. Notre Dame went home with a 4-1 win and a 2-2 tie. 
The Irish stretched their unbeaten streak to four games with the 2-2 tie against Miami Friday before falling to the Hedhawks the next day. 
ContactChris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
game. 
Duffy played some of the best basketball she's played all year. Hitting shots when the shot clock was winding down, making key shot after shot. The 5-foot-7 guard even rebounded, pulling down a career-high eight boards. She just missed a triple-double, adding 23 points and nine assists to her game to go along with three steals and just two turnovers. 
She was the glue this Irish team needed to win the game. She set the tone, she played the way her team needed to play and they fol­lowed her without missing a beat. 
The normally offensively quiet Breona Gray hit two big threes while scoring 10 points on the night, lindsay Schrader hit big shot after big shot good for nine points and Crystal Erwin brought the attitude and physical presence to the post to help Courtney 
LaVere contain DePaul star Khara Smith. But it began and ended with this team's fearless leader. 
When she dove for a loose ball and was in obvious pain, she played through it. After the game, in typical style, she shrugged it off as nothing. Just like the Irish shrugged ofT DePaul's 18-0 run and kept playing hard. 
"I took a hard foul and two peo­ple fell on me," Duffy said non­chalantly when asked about the injury and the pain she appeared to be in. "I was fine after a few minutes of collecting myself and shaking it off. I was fine after that." 
As Megan Duffy does, this team does. And Tuesday night, the sen­ior point guard found a way to take Notre Dame all the way back to being a team capable of beat­ing a top-10 DePaul squad that had only lost one game before Tuesday, after the Irish had lost to inferior St. John's, Seton Hall and Louisville in previous Big East games. DuffY reminded this team what it is like to be the elite team it was a year ago. 

"And Megan, what can you say about Megan?" McGraw said at the end of her opening remarks. "Alinost a triple-double. That's the best point guard in America right there." 
And for those remarks to come from the ever-demanding Muffet McGraw, a former point guard herself-well, that speaks vol­umes for just how well Megan Duffy not only led but played on Tuesday night. 
The views in this column are those ofthe author and do not necessarily reflect those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Upset 
continued from page 28 
East losses to St. John's, Louisville and Seton Hall, losses that dropped Notre Dame from No. 12 to No. 24 in the Associaed Press poll. 
"I think everybody's got to feel pretty confident after that game knowing we can beat a ranked team," Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw said. 
The Irish at times still looked like they were struggling team. After center Melissa D'Amico's layup gave Notre Dame a 39-33 lead early in the second half, DePaul went on a 4:28, 18-0 run to give the Blue Demons a 51-39 lead with 13:30 to play in the game. 

"During that stretch we had just some communication breakdowns because we were switching defenses so much," senior point guard Megan Duffy said. 
The Blue Demon run was started and led by guard Jenna Rubino, who had the first nine points of the stretch, all of them from behind the arc. 
Rabino's standout perform­ance was aided by Notre Dame's commitment to stopping All­American center Khara Smith from dominating inside the post. 
"We were trying to get some­one down there so she couldn't get the ball," McGraw said. "We were trying to limit her touch­
es." 
Ultimately, just as the Joyce Center crowd was on the verge of sighing a collective "here we go again," Notre Dame regained the form it had displayed at times early in the game. With 
13:06 left to play and the game quickly slipping away, guard Breona Gray hit a 3-pointer that ignited the Irish to their own 18­0 run, giving them a 57-51 lead with 6:46 to go. . 
"I wasn't really sure if I was going take it or not, but I was wide open, so I thought, 'Why not just take it?"' Gray said. ''I'm used to shooting wide open shots." 
During the game-changing run, five different Notre Dame players scored, including fresh­man guard Lindsay Schrader, who finished with nine points despite coming off the bench backing up Charel Allen, which has been an unfamiliar role for her this season. 
"It bothered me. I just wanted to prove to [McGraw] that I belonged in the starting line up," Schrader said. "Charel's an excellent player, you can't doubt that. She deserves to be in the starting lineup right now." 
With 2:40 left in the game, DePaul was able to cut the Irish lead to 63-61 after forward Rachel Carney hit a 3-pointer, but the Blue Demons were never able to regain the lead. Down the stretch, Duffy took over in the clutch, scoring six points in the fmal 2:11, includ­ing going 4-4 from the free throw line with less than a minute left to help ice the Blue Demons. Overall, she finished with 23 points, nine assists and eight rebounds, the latter tying a career high set back in 2003 against Villanova. 

In the end, McGraw somewhat sarcastically credited the Irish's recent struggles for the come­back win. 
"I don't think [falling behind big] really bothered us because we've been here before," she said. "I thought the preparation over the last couple weeks for that particular moment really helped us." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 


Information Session 
for those interested in the position of 
Assistant Rector 
for University Residences 
Thursday, January 19, 7:30-8:30 p.m. Reekers Hospitality Room 
OR 

Wednesday, January 25, 7:30-8:30 p.m. Fischer Community Center 
Light refreshments served 
For further information visit 

Wednesday, January 18, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
ERIK POWERS and ALEC WHITE
JOCKULAR 
Quinn's now in the notional spotlight. Bo·ody's in the Heismon hunt for next year. 

BradyJ What about Lauo•a? She got her own VHI reality -Dr. Quinn: Equivocating 
CROISSANTWORLD 
\-iE.LLO, C...LASS. 
e: L C..O IV\ E. IO 'tOUR 
HOPELESSL~ 
Pol NILE'SS 
-no~t.oLO<.t'l ~E.QuiRE.I"\E.NT (ou~::.E.. 
11'~ M'i :roe. 10 DRA<.t "fOI..\, KtC\<.tNLt 
Ar-ID sc.~E.Al"\tN~, 
fN"IO A WELL­ROUNDE-D LIBE.i<:AL ARTS EJ:)UCI>ITioN. 

ADAM I~AIRHOLM 
I PR DM\'5E NOT \O Cti\JE. '/OU AN'fTHIN(:t \...E-SS \t-1 P..N A " B'' 
IF 'fOU PRoMISE:. 
NOT TO BE. A 
But-~c..~ Of PRA.'TTLI N l:t LITTLE I<NOW-\T-ALl.. BM1S 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

JJ~ID1IE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RESET 
j


I I r () 
tPERTIL HOW THE: GUARD 
OE:SCRIBE:D THE: PRISON 
www.1umble.com 
SQUABBL-E:. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above car-

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 35 Serengeti 57 Track cry after sighting "and"
Busch Gardens locale 36 Vitriol 59 "Absolutely Fabulous" mom
6 Enervates 37 "Quit cryin"' 60 "Aha!"
10 Hte-a-tete 40 Mailed 61 Old Harper's
14 Modern source 41 Whole lot Bazaarof pass-along illustrator42 Does toe loops,jokes 
15 Legal claim 43 Army Corps of 63 Curtain holders 16 Too smooth Engrs. supply 
64 _-majeste17 For the 
44 Source of an 
65 Netizens 18 "Things are androgyne's great for me" confusion DOWN
20 Long march 45 Window ledge 1 Tithing fraction
21 Hotfooted it 46 Alley ___ 2 Subject for an22 Little laugh 48 Kipling's Italian aria 
comment about23 #1 hit for the 3 Prides of lions?
"The Liner"Crystals 4 Criticize 
25 Eerie ability 53 "Peter and the analyticallyWolf' bird's 
26 Pay, with "up" name 5 Happy hour order
27 Belief system 55 Suffragist Carrie 6 Pass
29 C.I.A. Chapman -·-_ forerunner 7 Evangelist _

56 Award for 31 Finishes, with 39 Tulsa's locale: 51 Car on a train
Semple

32 Odds and ends Samuel Beckett "up" Abbr.McPherson 52 A long time 
32 DOS part: Abbr. 44 Butt headsaPitching, in aANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 53 Hurly-burly
way 33 "Fargo" director 45 Fixed charge 9 _-Cat 34 Deteriorate 54 "I get it now"
47 "That's for sure" 10 Two-scoopers, 35 Martini 49 Weapon 58 Fish lacking a 
e.g. ingredient pelvic fin
handles 11 Acme 36 Undoubtedly 50" With Me" 59 de 
12 Lip balm 38 Game summary (popular hymn) Cologne

ingredient 13 Little kid 

For answers, call 1-900-285 -5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 19 Particular credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 21 Able to feel Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
24 One may be 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 
..:::;+.=+-:+:-~ 28 Get by (on) 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young ----~.__.__.__. 30 Sour fruit solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES B<mN ON TillS I>AY: Kid Rock, 35; Jim Cmcy, 44; Susnnnn Hoffs, 47; Maury Povich. 6 7 Happy Birthduy: It's what you do for othcrs that will carry you along this year. You can make incrcdihlc gnins if you arc giving, hdplul and rcsourccliol. Thi~ is a great year to invest wisely. An older person in your life may cause worry but giving your time, knowledge and assistance will renp rcwnrds. Your numbers are 7. 12, 19, 22, 35, 40 ARIES (Mnrch 21-April 19): You may have to prove yourself today. l>on'l take chances or assume anyone knows who you arc or what you can do. Money can be onadc and a good position obtained but not without your undivided attention. ••• TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Gear up, get n:ady and put on the hig push todny. You have everything going f<lr you if you arc hont:st and kt•cp a close watch over anyone you feel may bo: stringing you along. Leave nothing to chance. 
***** 

GEMINI (May 21-.lune 20): You can expect to feel a little lcfl out today. So much will be going on hut it will he difficult for you to get a piece of it. Don't think so much ahout what cveryono: else h•L~. Consider your own attrihutcs. • • CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): You will look at things dillcrcntly today und that is a good thing. Don't hack away from something hecausc it appears to he too complicated. Now is the precise time to ferret through the debris and t•ome out with a treasure. ••• • L~:o (.luly 23-Aug. 22): You've been so serious lately. l'ut that sidt: of you w work and you will prosper. Today is the perfect time to promo!.: what you want to do. Don't let anything or anyon<: upset you. • • • VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Love, money. fame and taking a creative step intQ the future are possible today. You will discover something or someone who will grab your interest. You should mix business with pleasun: if at all possihlc. ••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will do much heUer dealing with acquaintances rather than with those close to you. A problem with your home or personal lite nppears to be pressing. You can move forward with a financial dt·al but do check the fine print. • •• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Form allianco:s or talk matters over with people you want to do things with in the li1ture. A partnership is looking good but set up rules and boundaries. Change will he necessary hut also VCI)' good fur you. 
**** 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-I>cc. 21): Seal a deal or advance your position. Discussing your plans with the people you feel will play a role in what you do should be your top priority. Being knowledgeable and informative will do the .,.. trick. •• CAI'RICORN (llcc. 22-.Jrm. 19): Make a move and know that it is your time to excel. Don't hold back, waiting to see what everyone else is going to do. Sci the standard and you will be a strong. prosperous leader. ••• •• AQliARIIJS (Jan. 211-Feb. Ill): It's time to weed out a few of the things that are taking up space but not benefiting you in any way. It can bt· very liberating and can help someone who can use those things for which you no longer have a use. ••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Emotional ups and dovms will leave you contused today. Try not to read something into what's being discussed. K~'<'P things simp I< and you will stand a much better chance with both money matters and ~ relationships. ••• Birthday Baby: You have a strong will power and a very firm set of rules that you live by. You are persistent, loyal and quick to try to convert others to see things your way. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenlalast.comjOr conjidentlal consultation' 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ___________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
,.._ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, January 18, 2006 
page 28 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Defeating the Demons 
Irish overcome deficit, upset No. 10 DePaul 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
For No. 24 Notre Dame, defeating a top-1 0 ranked oppo­nent is always a big win. When that victory comes after losing four out of five, it can be a mome.ntous one. See Also 
The Irish 
"Duffy is fearless

found them­selves in that leader of scrappy 
position 
Irish squad"

Tuesday 
page 26

night, top­ping No. 10 DePaul 78-75 in what could prove to be the watershed win of the season. The win over DePaul ended a rough stretch that included disappointing Big 
see UPSET/page 26 


FENCING 
Duelers struggle in Texas 
By DAN TAPETILLO Sports Writer 
The Irish sent 14 of their top competitors to the non-NCAA North American Cup in Houston, Texas last weekend to help mea<>­ure themselves against the nation's top fencers. The event took place at the Brown Convention Center -the same venue where the Irish won the 2005 NCAA Combined Fencing Championship last season, and this year had 6 of the 11 fencers from that squad. 
However, this tournament was not a team-scoring event. "You only go to compete individ­ually and are not representing a 
see FENCING/page 25 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Close losses tell story of ND conference games 
points per game thus far in confer­make 1O"of-16 shots from behind Syracuse defeated Notre Dame. DePaul 73, Notre Dame 67 By BOBBY GRIFFIN and ence, dead last in the 16-team Big the arc. Quinn is tied for second McNamara scored 25 and The Irish could not overcome a PAT LEONARD East. with Villanova's Randy Foye in Devendorf added 22 for the 17 -point halftime deficit, as they Spores Writers Notre Dame has averaged an scoring average, netting 24 points Orange, who led by five points at dropped their second Big East 
identical 84.5 points in those four per game in the team's first four the half. game of the year at Allstate Arena 
Notre Dame won five straight games and ended its conference­conference appearances. Quinn's 3-pointer w1th 1:29 Jan. 7. non-conference games prior to the opening 3-game skid on Saturday remaining in the second half cut Notre Dame tied the game at 53 new year, but the Irish have gotten with a 92-77 win over Providence Syracuse 88, Notre Dame 82 the Syracuse lead to four points, with 10:54 remaining in the sec­off to a rocky 1-3 start in the Big at the Joyce Center. Syracuse relied on steady scor­but McNamara and Devendorf ond half when Quinn nailed a 3­East. Irish point guard Chris Quinn led ing from guards Gerry McNamara were 4-of-4 from the line in the pointer, but DePaul guard Sammy 
Though all three losses were by ·all scorers with 31 points on 11-of-and Eric Devendorf to beat Notre final 1 :21 to seal the victory. Meija responded on the next pos­six points or fewer. the lrL<>h have 14 shooting. Guard Colin Falls Dame at the Joyce Center Jan. 11. Falls finished with 18 points to surrendered an average of 84.5 added 24, combining with Quinn to It was the fifth consecutive time lead all Irish scorers. see HOOPS/page 25 
FooTBALL 
Gridiron seniors will play in all-star ga111es 
By MIKE GILLOON Spores Editor 
The season isn't over just yet for several Notre Dame football players. The University's athlet­ic Web site announced Monday that five departing Irish seniors -kicker D.J. Fitzpatrick, wide receiver Maurice Stovall, offen­sive lineman Dan Stevenson and linebackers Corey Mays and Brandon Hoyte -have been selected to play in posto;ea­son all-star games taking place during the next two weeks. 
Fitzpatrick and Mays will par­ticipate for the East team in the Hula Bowl Saturday at 7 p.m. in Honolulu, Hawaii. 
Hoyte and Stevenson will play on the same day at 4 p.m. in the East-West Shrine game in San Antonio, Texas. The pair will suit up for the East squad as well. 
Stovall will head south to Mobile, Ala., to play in the Senior Bowl on Jan. 28 at 4 p.m. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
HOCKEY 

Irish finish break at 2-2-2 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
So close and yet so far. 
Notre Dame had its chances to upset No. 3 Miami University (Ohio) Saturday night at the Joyce Center, but the Irish couldn't turn enough opportunities into goals as they dropped a 3-2 decision to finish Christmas break 2-2-2. 
"The difference [between us and Miami] is finding a way to win," Notre Dame forward Wes O'Neill said. "Miami's a good team, but we let it slip away [Friday] and [Saturday]. We had 
see HOCKEY/page 26 


en 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
TRACK AND FIElD 
SMC BASKETBAll 

WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
1-(.)w No. 19 Irish split 
Belles hold onto 
Irish extend win 
Team earns two 
team over break 
first-place finishes 

fifth in MIAA 
streak to five
a:s 
Notre Dame sent 
Saint Mary's started 1­

A victory over No. 15
On Jan. 14, the Purdue 
swimmers to Evansville 

Invitational sent the Irish 
5 but improved to 6-10 
Michigan capped a long 
training period. 
and Texas for meets. 

home with two first and 
going into tonight's 
== six second place wins. 
game against Albion. 
l:a.!:i 
en 
page 24 
page 24 
page 21 
page 21 


,.·\l 

..· ~·~
2~ 4 
IRISI-·-I INS!rl 
Ohio State's offense overwhelmed Notre Dame in the Tostito s Fiesta Bowl. 




