
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE St FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10,2006 
Study abroad programs focus on safety 
Notre Dame, Saint Mary's prepare students for dangerous situations in other countries 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Wrirer 
After studying abroad in locales such as Paris, Cairo and Toledo. students return to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's with unforgettable memories of cities, of friends and, some­times, of crimes. 
Notre Dame senior Mary Corrigan was allegedly attacked by a man coming home from a bar a little more than a month into her semester in Angers, France last fall. Corrigan, who lived with a host family, said she walked the first 20 minutes home from the bar with others, then walked the last 10 minutes through the residential neigh­borhood by herself. 
"I got to my door, and then all of a sudden there was a man choking me from behind," Corrigan said. "He said some­thing to me very quickly, in a whispered voice -in French ­and I couldn't understand what­he said." 
The man tried to push her key away from the door, but Corrigan said her host mom 
see ABROAD/page 9 




ROTC conmtemoratesVeterans Day 
[military] community who have served and of those who gave the ultimate sacrifice." 
· Theriot said there wou]d be "roughly 200 students partic­ipating in the vigil," all of whom are Notre Dame ROTC students. lie said students are assigned to different shifts during the 24-hour period. 
The Joint Military Commander, senior Stephen Hutchings, was responsible for organizing the event. Theriot said. 
Sfmior Navy midshipman Patrick Maus said he would be standing guard during the vigil from 1:30 p.m. to 2 today with three other stu­dents. Among the four spots, one is occupied by Navy. one by Air Force, one by Army and the last spot is rotated between all three services, 
see VETERANS/page 4 


By MEGHAN WONS News Writer 
The uniformed students who have been standing guard at Clarke Memorial Fountain since 4 p.m. Thursday have not been charged with keeping out mischievous swimmers or spirited green food dye slip­pers. 
Members of all three ROTC units -Air Force, Army and Navy -are keeping a 24­hour vigil in honor of Veterans Day. The vigil will end at 4 p.m. today and will be followed by a concluding ceremony at 4:30p.m. 

Major Tyrone Theriot, assistant professor of Naval Science and the military rep­resentative for the event, said the annual Veterans Day vigil serves as "a remem­brance of all members of our 

Juniors to start comprehensives 
SMC departments tailor final project requirement to fit programs 
By FALLON HOGERTY 
News Writer 
Simply mention the phrase "senior comprehensive" to any Saint Mary's upperclassman and, more often than not, a look of terror crosses her face. 
Next semester, nearly all Saint Mary's juniors will begin the long process of creating their senior comprehensives, which, depending on the major, take roughly two semesters to com­plete. 
''I'm so nervous," junior Kristen Forney said. ''I've heard so many stories from girls that it 
see SMClpage 8 


---·-~~--­
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Viewing options available 
Away game to be shown on, offcampus 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 

While dorm resident'> and local 
cable subscribers won't have 
direct television access to 
Saturday's Notre Dame-Air Force 
football game, students will be 
able to watch their Fighting Irish 
take on the Falcons, both on or 
around campus. 
Tomorrow's game, which kicks off at 4 p.m., will be broadcasted by CSTV. a three-year-old college sports network that won't be available on Comcast Cable in the South Bend area, despite the ·network's "free preview" offer to cable and satellite providers this 
weekend. 
Local satellite subscribers, 
however, will have access to 
CSTV this weekend. A Dish 
Network representative said all 
customers already have access to 
CSTV. Direct TV public relations 
manager Jade Ekstedt said that 
while some packages include 
CSTV already, Direct TV will 
make CSTV available to all sub­
scribers during the "free pre­
view" this weekend. 
On campus. several groups 
have responded to the few 
options students have to watch 
the game. The Oflice of Student 
Activities has organized a game­
watch event that will take place 
at Stepan Center tomorrow, said 
Associate Dirnctor of Student 
Activities Hyan Willerton. 
Legends of Notre Dame, with 
help from Student Activities and 
Lyons and Alumni Balls, will also 
see FOOTBALL/page 8 
Contest seeks ideas to name hotel near SMC 
Students may submit suggestions, win prizes 
By LIZ HARTER 
News Writer 
Come next fall. the Inn at Saint Mary's will have some competi­tion. 
The Holladay Corporation is working with the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross to build a Hilton Garden Inn confer­ence center next to campus, expected to be ready for the early 2007-08 school year. 
The only problem is the name. 
Holladay Properties Senior Vice President of Development Frank Perri said the corporation is using a contest to assist in "placing 'an appropriate and effective' name on the new conference center." Perri's message was distributed to Saint Mary's students, faculty and staff via an e-mail sent Nov. 3. 
"We want to have fun and get some really interesting ideas for the name of the conference cen­ter," Perri said when asked why Holladay Properties was holding the contest. "We want to do a good job and pay particular atten­tion to what [the center] is about and to give it a name that is appropriate." 
see HOTEL/page 3 


Friday, November 10, 2006
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Tale·s of the South 
New Orlnans-a city famous for its delicious cooking. jazz music scene and, of course, Mardi Gras. Not thrne days ago r rode my first paddle boat on the mighty Mississippi with a group of fellow civil engineers. Dustin Mennella Though we 
enjoyed two of Photo Editor 
the three 
aspects of New 

Orleans' culture that night (a great 
buffet with catfish and bread pudding 
accompanied by a live band, the 
DukBs of Dixieland), our trip's pur­
pose was not solely to take in the 
sights. Almost one year ago, New 
Orleans and the surrounding area 
were thrown into the spotlight as 
Hurricane Katrina caused multiple 
levee breaches, flooding the land and 
displacing millions. The damage to 
the area's infrastructure was exten­
sive, and the rebuilding process has 
been one of the largest civil works 
projects America has seen in quite 
some time. During our time in the 
South, we got a chance to glimpse the 
damage caused by the hurricane, and 
learn about some of the new meas­
ures in future hurricane protection. 
An area called the Ninth Ward was 
in close proximity to one of the levee 
breeches and, as one would imagine, 
was hit hard. Here, the water did not 
just flood the area-a tidal wave of 
escaping water crushed everything in 
its path. Ominous rain clouds hung 
low in the sky that afternoon as we 
walked down a street of condemned 
houses. That, coupled with the eerie 
silence of a deserted neighborhood, 
made it seem that no time had passed 
since the storm. Even the trees had ,died, due to the salt content of the 
floodwater. Telephone poles laid on 
the ground, and more than once all 
that was left of a house were the front 
steps, because the entire house had 
simply been swept away. Incredible as 
the destruction was, hope remains, 
and the people of New Orleans are 
slowly but surely returning and 
rebuilding. 

Though there is still a long way 
to go, the hurricane protection sys­
tem has been restored and is 

stronger than ever. Being in a val­
ley below sea level, New Orleans 
has to pump its rainwater out into 
Lake Pontchartrain. During 

Katrina, water flowed backwards 
into these drainage canals, and it 
was there that some of the most 
destructive levee failures occurred. 
In response to this, floodgates have 
now been built at the mouths of the 
canals, and the levees themselves 
have been redesigned and rebuilt. 
Post-Katrina, levee failures were 
analyzed at the Army Corps of 
Engineer Research and 

Development Center in Vicksburg, 
Miss. -an extremely interesting 
set of laboratories we got a chance 
to see, with everything from small­
scale physical models of the canal 
system to supercomputers. Too 
often I forget there is more to engi­
neering than the calculations I do 
to complete my homework. This 
trip was a special opportunity to 
see how engineers have responded 
to and solved real world problems. 
Contact Dustin Mennella at 
dmennell@nd. edu 

The views expressed in the Inside 
Column are those of the author and 
not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIQNS 

Due to an ediring error, the subhead on the arricle entitled "Discussion addresses penalry" in the Nov. 9 edition ofThe Observer srares rhar Deacon George Brooks supports the death penalry. Brooks does not believe the death penalry to be a source ofclosure or
• 

healing for fan1ilies. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHERE WILL YOU GO TO WATCH THIS WEEKEND'S AWAY FOOTBALL GAME? 







Michael Garber Aldrich Anderson Nicola Shuttleworth Jimmy Champlin 
senior freshman freshman sophomore Morrissey Stanford Lewis Sorin 
..BW3's "With the "I'll be "In my room. because there nuns at Saint watching the Alone. Softly are going to Mary's College game zn my crying. .. 
be way too because friend's room many people they're fun to because she has at Legends." watch football satellite and 
'th ,..

Wl . my best friend Ezinne will be there ... 

DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer 

Junior Megan McCullough, right, asks a question of Fred Young, site supervisor for the Army Corps of Engineers, regarding the new floodgates on the :1.7th Street canal In New Orleans, La. McCullough and other civil engineering majors took a three-day trip to New Orleans this week to see the effects and rebuilding after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. 
OFFBEAT 
their mother was napping. Instead of watching TV, like his mother thought he was doing, Kenny Rodriguez, accompanied by his brother, Miguel Pepin, cruised the busy Grand Central Parkway and even parallel parked before police finally found them at a friend's house. 
"Kenny was angry with me so he drove to his friend's house," said their shaken mother, Carolina Rivas, 33, who works nights at a hospital emergency room. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

British man burns bum with firecracker 
LONDON -A 22-year-old man suffered internal injuries after lighting a small firecracker he had inserted into his buttocks, para­medics said Thursday. 
The incident took place Sunday, when Britain cele­brated Bonfire Night, tradi­tionally marked with fire­works to celebrate the Guy Fawkes' gunpowder plot to blow up Parliament in the 17th century. 
The man suffered burns and other unspecified inter­nal injuries in the incident in Sunderland, 275 miles north of London. 
TODAY 
a: 

Katherine Shenton, a spokeswoman for the North East Ambulance Service, said a caller had phoned in that the victim was bleeding after the firecracker explod­ed. 
Several of the man's friends recorded the incident on a mobile phone. The blurry images show a man bent over with his pants down and a white flash as the firecracker explodes. 
Boy, 12, takes two-hour spin In family car 
NEW YORK-A 12-year­old took his 7-year-old brother for a two-hour joy ride in the family car while 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
L&.l 
::c 
!;( 
L&.l 

3: 
...I 
<
(,) 


0 

..... HIGH 62 HIGH 55 
LOW 35 LOW 32 

46 40 

51 35 


Kyle Peters sophomore O'Neill  Chris Lardakis sophomore O'Neill  
"I'll watch it Between the Buns. "  "I'm with stupid...  

IN BRIEF 

Student Union Board will present the film "Scoop" tonight at 8 p.m. and 10 in 101 DeBartolo. Admission is $3 for students, faculty and staff. 
Comedians Randy and Jason Sklar wiU perform at Legends tonight at 10 p.m. Admission is free for all students. 
As part of the Holocaust Film Series "Through the Eyes of Children," the film. ''Europa, Europa" will be shown in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Saturday at 10 p.m. Tickets are $3 .for students, $4 for seniors, $5 for staff and faculty and $6 for the general public. 
The Japanese film "I Was Born, But..." will be shown at 4 p.m. Sunday in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The play Celebrating Wendy: An Evening of Wasserstein One-Acts will take place today and Saturday at 7:30 
p.m. and at 2:30 p.m. Sunday in Saint Mary's Little Theatre. Tickets are $9 adults, $8 senior citizens, $7 staff and $6 students. 
Saint Mary's junior class will be selling $2 banana splits Monday from 5 p.m. to 9 in Reignboux Lounge in Le Mans Hall. All proceeds will go to 
S.C.O.U.T. B.A.N.A.N.A. to raise funds for a community in Uganda. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 


Friday, November 10, 2006 page 3 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Kellogg research grants offer students abroad opportunities 
By DANA GUSKY News Writer 
When senior Kevin Overmann witnessed the grief in a small Ghanaian town after the death of two women during childbirth, he wanted to learn more about the country's cul­tural issues of maternity. 
"It was a really powerful experience that affected me," he said. "When I got [back to campus], I realized I wanted to do something about it." 
Overmann, a pre-med and anthropology major, decided that he wanted to return to Ghana and study the practices and traditions that surround childbirth. He was able to real­ize his goal through a grant from the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
"I observed the maternity ward in a major government hospital three days a week. The rest of the time I went to 

rural villages and talked to the traditional midwives, who had all their knowledge handed down from grandmother to mother to daughter," said Overmann, who is now writing a narrative about his experi­ences. 
For more than 20 years, the Kellogg Institute and Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies have been jointly giving grants to students for undergraduate research, designed to promote students' initiative and spark interest in La tin America, Asia and Africa. 
Students like Overmann must research and write a grant in the area of their choice, while partnering with a Notre Dame professor in the given field. 
"Your advisor really helps you with the pre-and post­study, especially when you get back and analyze the data," senior Kristina Leszczak said. 
Leszczak had previously 
spent a summer in El Salvador before deciding to write a grant concerning the low levels of violence in Argentina. 
"I wanted to see why other countries weren't looking to Argentina as this great exam­ple," Leszczak said. 
The University has made a concerted effort to engage in undergraduate research, according to Holly Rivers, the coordinator of the program. 
"I think this program does a lot to realize that goal," Rivers said. "It is these type of pro­grams that enable students to get Fulbright awards and other grants after graduation." 
Each summer, the institutes send five to six rising seniors to their selected regions with a maximum grant of $4,000. Once there, it is up to the stu­dent to carry out his investiga­tion to answer the questions proposed in his grant. 
"I met with politicians, ex­labor leaders, and intellectu­als," senior Gustavo Rivera said. 
Rivera studied in his native country of Mexico, as well as Argentina, and investigated leftist countries and their rela­tion to labor unions. 
"I also spent about five to six hours a day at the local library just reading everything I could," he said. 
Senior Rachel Meeks used her research grant to go to north India and study a group of Tibetan refugees. She spent six weeks ip a refuge center, interviewing older female refugees in a weaver and spin­ner group and discussing the effects of their exile and jour­ney to India. 
"I wanted to compare the memories of the exiles to how they raise their own children," Meeks said. 
Meeks said it is difficult to try to get in touch with people who may not be very open. 
"I spent my mornings in a 
refuge center, helping people learn English and trying to get them not to see me as a waste of space," she said. 
The returnees had plenty of advice for potential applicants. 
"Come up with a concise and clear question, but know that question is a living thing and will change," Rivera said. 
Senior Megan Westrum start­ed her summer in India and Bangladesh and tried to deter­mine if there was a link between democratization and economic liberalization 
"My study actually became a more qualitative view of how individuals and interest groups affect public policy," she said. "Make [your study] achievable and know why you question is important." 
Applicants for the summer of 2007 must submit their grant proposals by March 2. 
Contact Dana Gusky at dgusky@nd.edu 
Hotel 
continued from page 1 
Holladay wants everyone involved -including those in the Saint Mary's community -to have a chance to weigh in on the name of the conference center, Perri said. 
The person whose name is cho­sen will win a weekend package for the conference center, which includes breakfast, lunch and din­ner for two at the All American Grille, plus two nights of lodging at the hotel. 

The American Grille will be the full service restaurant in the con­ference center. Second and third prize winners will also be chosen. 
Perri said he expects the panel of judges to be made up of five people, including himself, a repre­sentative of both management companies involved in the confer­ence center, a member of the Congregation and a judge chosen by College President Carol Ann Mooney. 
Students expressed mixed reac­tions to the contest, including just how involved in the building process Saint Mary's should be. 
"I think it's really great that the Hilton is including us in the process. I mean, it is on our cam­pus," junior Carole Deeter said. "If they didn't include us, it could potentially be called something asinine, but by including Saint Mary's students and faculty, they \\ill appropriately be able to asso­ciate with us just enough to clue people in about where they are." 
Sophomore Kristi Hingstrum agreed, saying the hotel would 
give more publicity to Saint Mary's. 
"A campus confined to its own little area with no outside connec­tion can seem a desolate plaee," Hingstrum said. "This [conference center] could open more people's eyes to Saint Mary's and that is a benefit to the College." 
Sophomore Kellie Anderson said she saw the benefit of the conference center and contest but didn't understand the choice of prizes. 
"The dinner and breakfast are kind of cool, but what's the point of getting a hotel room?" Anderson said. "Our beds aren't that far away." 
Junior Katherine Frazier, how­ever, saw some humor in the situ­ation. 
"What a way to break pari­etals," Frazier said. "It'll probably say 'this is not valid on football weekends.' which takes away [many of the] legitimate reasons for student'> to use [the voucher for a free night]." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 






10om 

Comedians 

ar rot ers 



l.#·EC ENDS 
F NC)TRE DA\AE No Cover I ND, SMC, HCC ID Req'd I legends.nd.edu 


-..,..... ...... ~__,. ~~-~ -,._...., '----·-~--· -·~" 
...,..__.1,_ "~ -..... ~ ------A 
~ --~~___._,-~~~-·---~ -~ .._ 
-

-·-------
• ­
Friday, November 10, 2006 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
page 4 

Veterans 
continued from page 1 
Maus explained. 
"It's a great way to raise awareness about the sacri­fices that veterans have made in the past and that service members are making today," Maus said. 
Veterans from the local community have attended Notre Dame's Veterans Day ceremonies in past years, Theriot said. He said invita­tions were sent out to local veterans for this year's event. 
"There is a strong number of individuals in this local community who are either currently serving in the mili­tary or who have served in the past, and we expect a good turnout for the conclud­ing ceremony,'' Theriot said. 
The concluding ceremony this afternoon will feature Taps played by buglers and a speech given by Major Celeste Ross, the Commanding Officer and Inspector-Instructor of the 
U.S. Marine Corps Reserve in South Bend, Theriot said. 
One person who will defi­nitely be at the concluding ceremony is Notre Dame's oldest undergraduate stu­dent, Korean and Vietnam War veteran Ralph "Lefty" Guillette. 
Guillette served in the Marine Corps, and his loyalty to the Corps runs as deep as his love for the Irish. The message on his cell phone gives a Notre Dame football season prediction -12 and 0 -and cites "semper fidelis," the Marine Corps motto, meaning "always faithful." 
Guillette expressed his gratitude for the Notre Dame students who have made a commitment to serving their 
country. 

"The ROTC kids are doing ten." such a tremendous job of Guillette said it is important 
serving God, N o t r e Dame," he s a i d . "They are my class­mates and 
I  am  so  
proud  of  
them.  

"So many students have asked m e , 'What's combat 
..[Veterans Day] should not be a celebration, it should be a dedication to the heroes that have served and died in war.,, 
Ralph "Lefty" Guillette Vietnam and Korean War veteran Notre Dame undergraduate 
country and for people to realize that we, 
as a nation, are "forget­ting the veter­ans-we are losing one thousand World War II veterans a day." 
"I think it's time that we wake up to the fact that we have vet­erans coming 

like?' I'll sit and hold court home without limbs, without for an hour, an hour and a eyesight, and we are turning half -as long as they'll lis-our backs on them," he said. 
Looking for Customer 
Service Fanatics! 
• 
$10.00 Per Hour 

• 
Part time 


• 
Four positions available 

• 
Customer Service Call Center 

• 
Located iust oH the Bypass at Cleveland Road 

• 
Flexible Hours 


• 
Clean Professional working environment 


If you enjoy serving customers and usually exceed expectations we need you on our team! 
Apply on line at www.SelectSCG.com 
<http:/ /www.selectscg.com/> Go to .... 11SCG Coreersn Search Indiana 
Or to schedule an interview call nm Hindes 
@ 574-247-2416 

"The least students and members of the Notre Dame community can do is come to the ceremony on Friday to pay tribute to the veterans." 
While Guillette was fortu­nate enough to come home safely from two wars, he said the names of friends and roommates are etched on war memorials honoring the dead. 
"[Veterans Day] should not be a celebration, it should be a dedication to the heroes that have served and died in war," Guillette said. "If I was governor, I would close every store on Nov. 11." 
Veterans Day is an annual event held Nov. 11, although communities may hold cere­monies in recognition of the holiday on different days, according to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Web site. 
The Clarke Memorial Fountain, the site of the vigil, was erected in memory of Notre Dame graduates who gave their lives in service. 
In the case of inclement weather, the vigil's conclud­ing ceremony will be moved to LaFortune Ballroom. All members of the Notre Dame community are invited to attend, Theriot said. 
Contact Meghan Wons at mwons@nd.edu 


WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2006 8:00PM, LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
Tickets:$10 Adults, $8 ND/SMC Facul~JfSta.ff $6 Seuior Citizens, $3 Students Call 631-2800 or visit http://performingarts.nd.edu 
nfilUNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 

ofMusic 

Looking for a career instead of just a job? 

we provide va!uabfe exposure~ sooner, to the. du~lilient)BS and rewards of developing 

businesses. VVant a career that's cha. Uenginq and Jnspidng~ instead of run"'t.Jf*the~mm? Leam rnore a+.-rsmmcgfadrey,com. 
RSM McGiadrey 

ACCOUNTING • TAX • BUSINESS CONSULTING 

j 

Friday, November 10, 2006 CoMPILED FROl"1THE OBSERVER'S \VlRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Iraq estimates 150,000 civilians dead 
BAGHDAD -A stunning new death count emerged Thursday, as Iraq's health minister estimated 150,000 civilians have been killed in the war -about three times previously accepted estimates. 
Moderate Sunni Muslims, meanwhile, threatened to walk away from politics and pick up guns, while the Shiite-dominated government renewed pressure on the United States to unleash the Iraqi army and claimed it could crush violence in six months. 
After Democrats swept to majorities in both houses of the U.S. Congress and Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfelrl resigned, Iraqis appeared unsettled and seemed to sense the potential for an even bloodier conflict because future American policy is uncertain. As a result, positions hardened on both sides of the country's deepening sectarian divide. 
Mexico City recognizes gay dvil unions 
MEXICO CITY -Mexico City's assembly on Thursday .voted for the first time in the country's history to legally recognize gay civil unions, a measure that will provide same-sex couples with benefits similar to those of married couples. The mayor was expected to sign the measure into law. 
The bill, which does not approve gay mar­riage, allows same-sex couples to register their union with civil authorities, granting them inher­itance and pension rights, as well as other social benefits. Lawmakers were still finalizing the details. 
Heterosexual couples who are not legally mar­ried can also be registered under the legislation. 
The bill was severely criticized by the Catholic Church and conservative civil groups. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Separated conjoined twin released 
WASHINGTON-One of two formerly con­joined twins born to Wisconsin parents was discharged from the hospital Thursday, and their doctor said he hopes the other twin can be released in about a week. 
Six-month-old McHale Twain Shaw, who was separated from brother Mateo Asher Shaw in September, was released from Children's National Medical Center. McHale and parents Angie Benzschawel, 25, and Ryan Shaw, 28, of Sheboygan, Wis., will stay at a nearby apartment. 
"It was very emotional to be able to finally bring our son home," Benzschawel said in a telephone interview with The Associated Press about 20 minutes after returning from the hospital. 

Scientists hope to protect GuH coast 
BAY ST. LOUIS, Miss. -Scientists at a new research institute are studying ways to improve hurricane forecasts and pro­tect the Gulf Coast's natural resources from storms, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration announced Thursday. 
The federally funded Northern Gulf Institute at Stennis Space Center joins dozens of researchers who also study ecosystem management, coastal wetlands, climate change and coastal hazards in and around the Gulf of Mexico, the agency said. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Daniels proposes building new tollway 
INDIANAPOLIS -Gov. Mitch Daniels pro­posed Thursday building a 75-mile tollway that would run from Interstate 69 northeast of Indianapolis and loop enst and south of the city to link up with Interstate 70. 
The governor's plan calls for a private compa­ny to pay for building the new highway -and dropping a move to charge tolls along much of the planned I-69 extension between Indianapolis and Evansville. The plan drew a cautious reaction from the incoming Democratic House speaker, who fiercely fought Danielo;' suc­cessful push this year to lease the Indiana Toll Road to a private operator. 


-----------------------------------·--. 






Bush, Pelosi hope to cooperate 
First female Speaker-to-be vows House Democrats will immediately move on agenda 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Pres­
ident Bush and House 
Speaker-to-be Nancy Pelosi, 
perhaps the biggest loser 
and winner on Election Day, 
pledged over lunch 
Thursday to bury the hatch­
et and cooperate. When pos­
sible. 

At the White House, where 
Bush had invited Pelosi for 
lunch, presidential aides 
joked that there was no 
crow on the menu for Bush 
to eat. 

Bush ate a little anyway, and he saluted Pelosi, not only as Tuesday's victor but as the first woman who will ascend to the position of House speaker, next in line to the presidency after the vice president. 
"The elections are now 
behind us, and the congress­
woman's party won," Bush 
said. "But the challenges still 
remain. And therefore, 
we're going to work together 
to address those challenges 
in a constructive way." 
Said Pelosi, like Bush all smiles: "We both extended the hand of friendship, of partnership to solve the problems facing our coun­try." 
She was accompanied by Rep. Steny Hoyer, the House's second-ranking Democrat. Bush was accom­panied by a stony-faced Vice President Dick Cheney. Meeting reporters in the student loan interest rates, that he'll listen to all sugges­
The president and his Oval Office, Pelosi and Bush funding embryonic stem cell tions on Iraq, except for guests sat down for a make­shook hands for the cam­research, authorizing the those that involve pulling nice luncheon of pa..'ita salad eras. The president and the federal government to nego­troops out before the mis­and chocolate in Bush's pri­woman whose party beat his tiate lower drug prices for sion is complete. He also vate dining room off the Oval this year leaned forward in Medicare patients and says he still wants congres­Office. their silk-upholstered seats. imposing a national cap on sional approval for war-on­
Later in the day, Bush tele­They promised cooperation industrial carbon dioxide terror tools that Democrats phoned Senate Minority in a government that, come emissions. have vigorously questioned. Leader Harry Reid to con­January, will be divided She also has said that the As Bush's press secretary, gratulate him on the between a Republican White election results mean Tony Snow, put it, echoing Democrats' takeover in the House and a Democratic Democrat'i not only want -what Bush said a day earlier, Senate as well. The switch in Congress. but expect -Bush to make the White House's intention power in that chamber Though the two sought to a change of direction in Iraq. is to cooperate but "don't became sure Wednesday show they were putting the "I look forward to working trim back on your princi­night, when enough votes barbs in the past, they did in a confidence-building way ples." were counted to confirm the not ignore the differences with the president, recogniz­Bush and Pelosi have met defeat of Virginia GOP Sen. that they debated so hotly ing that we have our differ­dozens of times before. But George Allen. Reid, likely to before the voting. ences and we will debate with both just getting accus­be majority leader in the Pelosi has made clear that them," Pelosi said at the tomed to new roles with new Congress, was getting House Democrats will move president's side. "We've each other, aides to both said his own meeting with Bush immediately on their agen­made history. Now we have it was more of a tone-setting at the White House on da, much of it opposed by to make progress." session than a time for Friday. Bush, which includes cutting For his part, Bush has said brass-tacks negotiating. 

GAZA STRIP 

Palestinians want revenge for attack 
Associated Press 

BElT HANOUN -Women col­lapsed in grief, a man hoisted his dead baby aloft and tens of thou­sands of Palestinians called for revenge Thursday as they jammed a cemetery for the funeral of 18 civil­ians killed in an errant Israeli artillery attack. 
Despite the deadly incident, Israel said it would keep attacking Gaza as long as Palestinian rocket barrages persist, although the army ordered artillery fire to stop pendh1g the results of an investigation. 
Amid the anguish, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas called his main political rival, llamas' supreme leader Khaled Mashaal -a move that could help prevent the Islamic militant group from renewing attacks on Israel and pave the way for a moderate Palestinian government. 
The shells landed Wednesday as residents were sleeping in the north­ern Gaza town of Beit llanoun, and witnesses said many were killed as they fled their homes in panic. 
The 18 dead was the highest Palestinian civilian toll in a single incident since the current conflict erupted in September 2000. The highest toll of Israeli civilians was 29 killed in a Palestinian suicide bomb­ing at a Passover gathering in March 2002. 
The army said it was targeting areas where rockets had been fired in recent days at the Israeli cities of Sderot and Ashkelon. 
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said the artillery was meant to hit an orange grove from which troops saw rockets fired seconds earlier, but instead hit homes in Beit Hanoun, some 1,500 feet away. 
The Israeli army said Thursday that an investigation indicated the casualties were caused by a techni­cal failure in the fire control system of an artillery battery, the first offi­cial military confirmation that army shellfire was responsible. 

page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 10, 2006 
"~t: . 
.t;'l 
:·..==.•..-···:··
.·. :···,.·::~ f-~ 
-·. iJ .. 
~ -· ., ' 

:,., ... 
:·· ;": ., . ;._ ~: 
!:: 
. . . ·;
~ 
(J$ ''/. 
=_..,··~· 
··;: 
' --tl' 
..·.? 


-~·:f.};';·::::~ 
. 
, 
. 

···~~ 

::AIL 1-C66 f':INGULA.R C L I C K W \tV W. C I N G U I ~ ~... __: 0 M 
~N IN TO A STORE 


Come in to participating Cingular Wireless retail stores and get lightning-fast AT&T Yahoo!® High-Speed Internet 
<l~(i_lr \; \YiflH' •_,: ~ '' '··· ,  
Elkhart 189 W County Rd. 6, (In front ofWill-,vlart)  Mishawaka/South Bend  
1574) 262-3.'> IOt  University Park Mall  
(located in the Food lou1t)  
(574J 24l-8069t  

Also av;ll!abl~ tOpen Sunday 
AT&T (800l613-9420 
/"---:=:-J 
~-r: 

~~J @ RadioShack. 
*Cingular also imposes monthly aRegulatory Cost Recovery Charge of up to $1.25 to help defray costs incurred in complying with State and Federal telecom regulation; State and Federal Universal Service charges; and surcharges for customer-based and revenue-based state and local assessments on Cingular. These are not taxes or government-required charges. 
Limited-time offer. Other conditions and restrictions app~. See contract and rate plan brochure for details. Subscriber must live and have amailing address within Cingular's owned network coverage area. Up to $36 activation fee applies. Equipment price and availability may vary by market and may not be available from independent retailers. Early Termination Fee: None 1f cancelled in the first 30 days; thereafter $175. Some agents impose additional fees. Sales tax calculated based on price of unactivated equipment Rebate Debit Card: Prices of Motorola V365 phones before $50 mail-in rebate debit cards and Push to Talk service agreements are $169.99 and $69.99, respectively. Price of Motorola RAZR before $200 mail-in rebate debit card is $299.99. Price of Sierra W1reless 875 LaptopConnec! card before $100 mail-in rebate debit card and unlimited data connect plan is $169.99. Allow W-!2 weeks for rebate debrt card. Rebate debit card not available at all locations. Must be customer for 30 consecutive days. Must tie postmarked by 12127/06. Unlimited Voice Services: Unlimited voice services are provided solely for live dialog between two individuals. Offnet Usage: Hyour minutes of use (including unlimited services) on other carriers' networks ("offnet usage") during any two consecutive months exceed your offnet usage allowance. Cingular may at its option terminate your service. deny your cor.tinued use of other carriers' coverage. or change your plan to one imposing usage charges for offnet usage. Your offnet usage allowance is equal to the lesser of 750 minutes or 40% of the Anytime minutes included with your plan. ©2006 Cingular Wireless. Ail rights reserved. 


j
---•lllllillilii_____..........&i;;oiiiill______llllilll_.......___...___liiiii_IIM_.:::II....__IIIIIIiii____________..____.........___________... -4.­
"..,~-.O..:'c'-"':..~c·. 

Friday, November 10, 2006 


page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 



12,103.30 -73.24
}ones 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I ,349 145 1,876 3,141,908,570 


FTSE. IOO(London) 6,231.50 -7.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) -0.53 -0.23 42.80 

INTEL CP (INTC) -1.40 -0.29 20.42 

SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -0.55 -0.03 5.42 

MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.28 +0.28 29.26 

. Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE 0.00 0.00 4.633 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.00 4.960 30-YEAR BOND +0.06 +0.003 4.733 5-YEAR NOTE -0.04 -0.002 4.600 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) + 1.33 61.16 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) + 18.50 636.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.35 90.68 
Excha Rates 
YEN 117.5300 
EURO 0.7776 
POUND 1.1286 
CANADIAN$ 
IN BRIEF 

Wall Street declines in losing session 
NEW YORK-WaU Street's three-day winning streak came to an end Thursday as investors, taking a second look at election results, ques­tioned whether a Democratic Congress would be friendly to business. 
The losing session, which was also influenced by rising oil prices and a drop in consumer con­fidence, was to be expected after the rally that lifted the Dow Jones industrials to a new closing high Wednesday. Investors had driven stocks broadly higher this week on optimism that Democrats taking control of Congress would cause political gridlock that would be favorable to businesses. 
But after more time to mull over the election, investors are starting to become concerned about an "anti-business stance" among Democrats in Washington, said John O'Donoghue, co-head of equities at Cowen & Co. 
"The market's been looking for a reason to go to the downside, and a change in Washington is as good an excuse as any," O'Donoghue said. 
Chicago Sun-runes loses more revenue 
CHICAGO -Sun-Times Media Group Inc. is considering a complete overhaul of the Chicago Sun-Times amid a continuing steep decline in advertising and circulation revenue at the city's second-largest newspaper, its chief executive said Thursday. 
Gordon Paris' comments on a conference call came a day after the company, which also publishes community newspapers around Chicago, reported a $34.9 million third-quar­ter loss. 
Paris attributed the company's 14 percent decline in overall advertising revenues largely to weakness at the Sun-Times, the largest remaining asset in the former Hollinger International Inc. media empire. He said newspaper print advertising was down about 15 percent, worse than the struggling newspa­per industry as a whole. 
The CEO, who is stepping down from the post Dec. 29. told analysts the company needs to go beyond the "new media" initiatives and advertising sales reorganization plan that it has already put in place to try to stPm the Sun-Tinws' decline. 
~------------------------................................................---------------------------------------------------~ 
'*;
---·--­




Acetaminophen pills recalled 
Millions ofbottles ofgeneric drugs sold at CVS, Wal-Mart could cantain metalfragments 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Check 
your medicine cabinet: Mil­
lions of bottles of the widely 
used pain reliever acetamin­
ophen -some sold as long 
as three years ago -are 
being recalled because they 
may contain metal frag­
ments. 

The recall affects 11 mil­
lion bottles containing vary­
ing quantities of 500-mil­
ligram acetaminophen cap­
lets made by the Perrigo Co. 
The pills were sold under 
store brands by Wal-Mart, 
CVS, Safeway and more than 
120 other major retailers, 
the Food and Drug Admin­
istration said. At least two 
chains -CVS Corp. and 
SuperValu Inc. -started 
pulling the pills from store 
shelves Thursday. 

There were no immediate report-; of injuries or illness. The contaminated pills included metal fragments ranging in size from "micro­dots" to portions of wire one­third of an inch long, the FDA said. The FDA could not describe further the type of metal. 
Perrigo discovered the metal bits during quality­control checks done after the company discovered its equipment was wearing AP down prematurely, the FDA Eleven million bottles of generic palnrelieving pills containing acetaminophen said. Agency officials dec­were recalled Thursday from hundreds of retailers, including CVS. lined to say whether the metal found in the pills widely used pain relievers The 129 retailers that tained raw material pur­caused the damage or available without a doctor's could potentially be affected chased from a third-party resulted from it. note. by the recall include Wal­supplier and affected 383 
A company investigation The recall does not afl'ect Mart Stores Inc., CVS, batches. Messages left turned up metal in roughly Tylenol. Nor should the Safeway Stores and Super­Thursday with two company 200 pills of the 70 million it recall cause a shortage of Vatu. They typically sell the spokesmen were not imme­passed through a metal acetaminophen, the FDA Perrigo-made pills under diately returned. detector, according to the said. their own or other private The FDA declined to iden­FDA The retail market for the labels. tify the source of the raw 
Consumers who take any pain relievers is worth more CVS will stop selling its materials. The agency does of the contaminated pills than $2 billion a year, own brand of 500-milligram not suspect the contamina­could have minor stomach according to Perrigo. The acetaminophen caplets and tion was deliberate, said Dr. discomfort or possible cuts company says it is the pull bottles from store Douglas Throckmorton, to the mouth and throat, the world's largest manufacturer shelves nationwide, spokes­deputy director of the FDA's FDA said, adding that the of store-brand nonprescrip­man Mike DeAngelis said. Center for Drug Evaluation risk of serious injury was tion drugs. SuperValu also began and Research. remote. Kevin Vincent, 44, of removing the pills from its Molly Walsh, 21, a George 
Acetaminophen is best Arlington, Va., said his wife Albertsons, Cub Foods and Washington University stu­known as the drug in prod­buys store brand acetamino­other stores, spokeswoman dent shopping at a CVS ucts sold under the Tylenol phen and he wanted to find Haley Meyer said. Messages pharmacy in Washington, brand. But it is available in out more about the problem. left Thursday with the other said she did not plan to toss typically less expensive "If it's not something that chains were not immediately any of the store-brand drugs generic versions. The drug, has any chance of recurring, returned. at home. Nor did she plan to along with aspirin and then I really wouldn't Perrigo, based in Allegan, stop buying the generic ibuprofen, is one of the most worry," he said. Mich., said the pills con-product-;. 

Courtbacks Costner incasino dispute 
Associated Press 

PIERRE, S.D. -The South Dakota Supreme Court has backed Kevin Costner in a legal battle over a Deadwood casino he owns, ruling Thursday that the actor­director doesn't have to sell his share in the business to sever his relationship with two partners. 
The actor wants to become the sole owner of the Midnight Star, an eating and gambling establish­ment where costumes Costner wore in various movies Une the walls. 
Costner owns 93.5 percent of the casino. He hired Francis and Carla Caneva to manage the oper­
ation and gave them ownership of 
6.5 percent. He fired them in July 2004, asking them to part ways as partners, and dissolved the part­nership when they declined. 
The court dispute centered on the valuP of the casino. An accountant hired by Costner put its value at $3.1 million, but the Canevas got another Deadwood casino owner to testify that he would pay $6.2 million. A judge ordered that Costner must buy the Midnight Star for the higher amount or it would be sold on the open market. 
Costner appealed, nrguing the value wasn't derived from a hypo­thetical buyer and snller, as is 
required by the IRS, and that the value was set without viewing any financial documents. The Supreme Court agreed that the lower court used the wrong standard to deter­mine the property's value. 
The justices said the property must be revalued but need not be sold. If the casino is determined to be worth no more than the $4.9 million Costner has put into it, the Canevas will not be entitled to any money, his lawyer said. 
Costner filmed much of "Dances With Wolves," which won the Academy Award for best picture in 1990, on South Dakota's plains and in the Black Hills, where Deadwood is located. 

........................._______...____~------· .--..._ ___ ~-~---_......____._.__________---~ ·-----·--·­
----~------------·---------------......~ \amsiill:;;;j.;.··=-··----·.........-............._....... -· -· 
Friday, November 10, 2006

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
first mentioned in the College's sive to fit her program. matter of quantity, always a mat­We want students to show what 
annual academic bulletin. It was "There are two metaphors that ter of quality," he said. "Could they've learned." strictly regulated at the time. continued from page 1 The senior comprehensive "is 
a test of not less than six hours," takes up a lot of time and it is a according to the bulletin. "It may ton of extra work. be written or oral or both 
"I've never done a research depending upon the character of project like this before. Everyone the major." dreads it." Since then, it has gradually 
Professor  Mary  Ann  
Merryman,  chair  of  the  
Department  of  Business  


The senior comprehensive has evolved into different types of been a required part of the Saint projects, research papers and Mary's curriculum since the exams. The College allows each 1936-37 school year, when it was major to tailor her comprehen-
SMC 



BOIES PLUS 
Between Burlington Coat Factory and Hobby lobby in the Wilshire Plaza 
Shipping-largest selection of shippers in the area 
WE OFFER FAST AND FRIENDLY LOCAL SERVICE

Packaging-largest selection of boxes in the area LIKE GRANDMA's CHINA... Gift, jewerly and custom-made WE WRAP IT LIKE OUR OWN shipping packages and boxes NEED TO MOVE? COME SEE US AND Rental boxes for local movers 
WE WILL SET YOU UP. 
Packaging Supplies 

WE SHIP ANYTHING, ANYWHHERE IN THE WORLD VIA UPS, FEDX, ETC.
Greeting Cards· 
Fax & Copy Service 
WE CAN PACK ANYTHING 
*No Hazardous Materials Shipped.* 
quite often are used for a senior project: a capstone and a bridge," communication studies professor John Pauley said. "Capstone is building on top of everything we've learned to far. Some programs are preparing students for a particular career, such as nursing, education, etc. 
"[The Communication Studies] program looks at the senior proj­ect as a capstone experience. It builds on communication theory, understanding skills acquired through the program." 
Pauley recommends that the comprehensive paper be between 20 and 30 pages, but it is not unusual to receive papers that are 60 to 70 pages or even upwards of 80 pages long. 
"A paper is never merely a 

Football 
continued irom page 1 
hold a gamewatch beginning a half hour before kickoff, Legends general manager Aaron Perri said. 
Willerton said Student Activities organized the events "given the demand for this game" and hopes to reach its 1,800-student capaci­ty at the Stepan Center. 
"We're working with a satellite company out of Indiana," Willerton said. "They will provide us with a one-time [deal]." 
The Stepan doors will open at 3 
p.m. and the game will be shown on a big screen with concert style seating, Willerton said. 
He said Student Activities was pleased "to be able to come through in the clutch" this week-someone write a five page comp? I suppose, if they were the great­est, densest writer out there." 
Administration and Economics, will spend the first week in January evaluating the Business Administration majors' compre­hensives. She said it is definitely a capstone project. 
"Business students create and present a case based on real companies like Kellogg's or Hershey's," she said. "These case studies demonstrate a student's competency on ethics, analytical and technical skills, problem solving and, quite honestly, good presentation skills. 
"These are all real-life skills. 
end. 
Legends renewed its Direct TV subscription after learning that Comcast would not carry CSTV this weekend, Perri said. 
The game will be shown on four televisions and a projection screen, as well as outside in a heated tent, Perri said -a larg­er event than a normal Legends gamewatch. He said they will be able to seat 800 students. 
Area bars and pubs are also preparing for this weekend's game broadcast. Establishments that will be able to show the game expect more business than usual. 

"We have extra staff coming in," said Jodi Thurspon, a man­ager at the Linebacker Lounge on South Bend Avenue. 
Sarah VanDusan, an employee at Corby's Irish Pub on Lasalle Avenue, said Corby's will have the 
Saint Mary's views the senior comprehensive as a rewarding and educational experience. It supports the goal for an integrat­ing liberal arts education, allow­ing students to achieve a higher level of learning, said Susan Vanek, the associate dean for Advising and director of First Year Studies. 
"When taking major courses, there is no time to step back and put it all together," Vanek said. "The senior comprehensive gives a student the chance to do this. Students, when they finish, see their project as rewarding and meaningful." 
Contact Fallon Hogerty at fhogerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
game via satellite and is "looking forward to the extra traffic." 
Both Buffalo Wild Wings loca­tions on Grape Road and Washington Street will show the game. Casa del Rio and K's Grill & Pub on South Bend Avenue will not show the game, nor will CJ's Pub on North Michigan Street. 
For fans that don't want to bother with finding a location with satellite access, the game will be broadcast online, said CSTV spokesperson Leslie Ann Wade. 
Viewers who sign up at UND.com or CSTV.com before Saturday's game will pay $14.95, and those who sign up after the game begins will pay $19.95, Wade said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

Ret]~ _Not-\!!. 
~;1EY3R --602 10 , .. ,, ll,-.. ,,-"\,.., 1~-.... 
h/\ .~ \...'J-,,)(_)L U 



This one credit-hour course will explore issues, ideas and trends likely to affect business and society during the next decade. A series of separate lectures on selected Friday mornings will feature a wide range of experts. business.nd.edu/tenyearshence 
Slt4~ iJv geobaf 7~Pow~ 
Dr. David r·· . ~,Ji:srtin, CFO, tv1-C;\fv1 
(Af 7'w,j Ol'v ~ 7~ o6 gecbaf S~ 
Cenerai Rd--~ard [3. V1yers. forrnEjr CrlairTnc:m cf the Jc.iint Chiefs of Staff 
7~-~~ts,~.-!~ 7~ec.9~ U~ CuftMltt Dw~~ 
,JoE·~I c,c.Yroau, A.ur.hor, Ho~..oncr o f:::.d1r.cr. 1he} vvashngton Post 
"Ten Years Hence" is listed as BAUG-3021 0 and MBGR-6021 0, and is open to all Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate students, and Saint Mary's students. There are no prerequisites to enroll. See your academic advisor or your department chair for additional detail. You are expected to attend all lectures and be prepared to engage speakers. No unexcused absences. This is a "Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory" course. This course requires no textbook purchases, examinations or term papers. Use an add form to register; registration is not available online. 


Friday, November 10, 2006 
page 9 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 


Abroad 
continued from page 1 
heard the commotion and her arrival scared him awav. 
Criminal incidents ca~ happen anywhere, said Lesley Sullivan, the Office of International Studies program coordinator for Notre Dame's Angers program and four other international study programs. Associate Director Kathleen Opel said the most common crime Notre Dame students experience abroad has been piekpoeketing. 
But Notre Dame, through ori­entation sessions, tries to ensure that students -espe­cially female study abroad par­ticipants -know how to stay safe in foreign countries. 

Sullivan organizes an infor­mation session called Women and Study Abroad mandatory for female study abroad partici­pants. 
The purpose, she said, "is really to outline areas of con­eern that students might have or encounter and to provide resources for those students about how to deal with those areas." 
The 90-minute session pro­vides health and safety tips and features insight from returning students. The Office of International Studies addresses "cultural cues and miscues" stu­dents can encounter when they are overseas. University Health Services, the University Counseling Center and student representatives from PILLARS also present issues students may encounter while abroad. 
In the second part of the ses­sion, returning female students deseribe situations their peers may face when they are in a for­eign country. One scenario, Sullivan said, is how to dress when a student goes for a run in a country like Mexico. With their experience, the returning students can give their peers advice on how to handle this type of situation, Sullivan said. 
"The point there is to put things in their heads that hope­fully will light up if they find themselves in a situation which is threatening or uncomfortable and they will remember some­thing that was told to them at these sessions," she said. 
Alice Siqin Yang, the assistant director of International and Intercultural Learning at the Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership, said in an e-mail that Saint Mary's takes a "tremendous number of precautions" to ensure student safety abroad. The Coll(:;ge holds mandatory pre-departure orien­tations for program participants that address health and safety issues. 
Saint Mary's junior Maggie Madden said she felt safe during her semester in Rome last spring. 
"I thought that Saint Mary's did a really good job preparing us," she said. 
Notre Dame senior Christa Laneri, who also went to Angers last fall, said she thought safety 
THE POWER TO GET A 


PHONE THAT ROCKS 

e TM

Phone and MPJ FUSIC by LG• only from Sprint. 
Bluetooth~ technology

player in one. 
Built-in MP3 player with FM transmitter 

microSD external memory card 

$99.99 
Reg. $299.99 each. Save $150 instantly 
plus 550 maiHn .ebale. 
Plus get LG® portable speakers 



FREE 
reg. $58.65. While supplies last. 

Phone and free speaker offer requires activation of a new line of service on a$39.99 or higher service plan with atwo-year agreement on each phone. 
GET THIS CAMERA PHONE 

FREE, INSTANTLVI 
SCP-3100 by Sanyo~ Offer requires activation of anew line of service with a 2-year sub­

Sprinf > POWER UP .. 
scriber agreement. Reg. $179.99. After $179.99 instant savings. 



REGISTER TO WIN $10,000* 
Visit your local Sprint Store to register for a chance to win the $10,000 Money Talks Grand Prize or one of 25 $1,000 First Prizes. 
Sweepstakes ends 12/10/06. No purchase necessary. See store for complete sweepstakes rules. *Registration available at Sprint Stores or Preferred Retailer locations only. 

New, improved coverage in the South Bend area. 
Wireless service is only as good as the network it runs on. With new and improved coverage in South Bend, Niles. Granger and Laporte, now is a great time to experience the most complete, all-digital, wireless network in the nation reaching more than 250 million people. 
SPRtNT STORES PREFERRED RETAilERS Al!JO AVAilABLE AT: 
NILESSOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA

SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA STORE HOURS Sprint Store Express Sprint Store Express 
Basic Communications 

Martin's Plaza Grape Rd. at Indian Ridge Sunday ........ 12pm-5pm 
2010 S. 11th St.

52991 SR993 Ste. B University Park Mall
2035 South Bend Ave. South of the Mall Mon.-Fri........ 10am-8pm 
269-357-0000 574-277-7727 across from McDonald's Sat............. 9am-7pm 
574-243-8900 6501 Grape Rd. 
574-277-4360 574-243-2100 
Se habla Espaiiol 

••Rates exclude taxes & Sprint Fees (including USF charge of up to 2.26% that varies quarterly, cost recovery fees up to $2.83 per line, 8c state/local fees that vary by area). Sprint Fees are not taxes or gov't-req'd charges. Coverage not available everywhere. Available features & services will vary by phone/network. Nationwide Sprint PCS Network reaches over 250 million people. Offers not available in all mar­kets or retail locations. Add'l terms & restrictions apply. Subject to credit. See store or Sprint. com details. Up to $36 activation & $200 early termination fees apply per line. Deposit may be required. Instant Savings: Offer ends 12/31/06 or while supplies last. No cash back. Taxes excluded. Activation at time of purchase required. Mail-in Rebate: Requires purchase & activation by 12/31/06. Rebates cannot exceed purchase price. Taxes excluded. Line must be active 30 consecutive days. Allow 8 to 12 weeks for rebate. ©2006 Sprint Nextel. All rights reserved. Sprint. the "Going Forward" logo, the NEXTEl name & logo, & other trademarh are trademarks of Sprint Nextel. . SWEEPSTAKES: NO PURCHASE NECESSARY TO ENTER OR WIN. PURCHASE DOES NOT IMPROVE YOUR CHANCES OF WINNING. The Sprint "Money Talks" Sweepstakes begins 12:00:01 a.m CST on 10/23/06 and ends 11:59:59 p.m. CST on 12/10/06. Open only to legal U.S. residents of lA, ll, Ml, IN, OH, PA, TN and WY. 18 years of age or older. Void where prohibited by law. To enter: Visit a participating Sprint retail store, complete the official entry form and drop in the entry box at the store or enter online at www.moneytalks/registertowin.com. Limit one entry per per­son. Subject to full official rules available online at www.moneytalks/rules.com. Odds of winning are dependent upon number of eligible entries received. Prizes: One (1) Grand Prize: $10,000 Cash. Value: $10,000. Seven (7) First Prizes: $1,000 Cash. Value: $1,000 each. All prizes will be awarded in the form of a check. Total Value of all prizes: $17,000. SPONSOR: iPCS Wireless, Inc., 1901 N. Roselle Rd., Schaumburg, ll60195. OPT-OUT: Ifyou do not want to be contacted regarding iPCS Wireless Inc.'s, Products or services in the future, write to: Jill Moravec, The Ad Group 230 E. 2nd Street, Davenport, lA 52801. 
.__ 
··-··---·-­
-
was a concern for Angers pro­
gram participants mainly 
because the students were 
spread throughout the town 
with host families and could not 
always avoid walking home 
alone in the dark. 
"Since it is a residential area, 
people would go to bed by nine 
or ten," Laneri said. "So if you 
are coming home late, it's dark 
and there is no one else on the 
streets." 
Her host family's house was 
about 20 minutes away from 
where classes were held and 
about 25 to 30 minutes away 
from the downtown area, Laneri 
said. But one of her friends lived 
nearby, she said, so she only 
had to walk the last 5 to 10 min­
utes alone. 
To avoid walking home alone, 
Sullivan said, students need to 
plan in advance their agenda for 
the evening. Many times, the 
men in the program can walk 
women home before returning 
to their own houses, she said. 
The program's resident direc­
tor can also reimburse students 
for a certain number of taxi cab 
rides each semester, Sullivan 
said. 
"If a female student feels 
uncomfortable or threatened, all 
[she needs] to do is take a taxi 
then talk to the resident director 
about it afterwards," she said. 
Notre Dame senior Viviana 
Castro said she had a good 
semester in Angers last spring 
and said she never felt unsafe. 
"My advice is just stay close 
[to campus], and if you are 
going someplace farther away, 
take a cab," Castro said. 
Notre Dame's Women and 
Study Abroad session is only 
one of a series of orientation 
sessions that give students tips 
to stay safe overseas, Sullivan 
said. Each program also pro­
vides participants with numbers 
they can call in an emergency. 
The Office of International 
Studies also stays up to date on 
State Department warnings and 
gives students information 
about the country they are visit­
ing. 
Associate director Julliet 
Mayinja, who oversees the Cairo 
program, said she advises stu­
dents how to respect the Arab 
culture through their dress and 
behavior. 
"Obviously, presentation is a big thing in Arab culture and the perception that women in the West are loose and easy is prevalent, so we make sure stu­dents understand this," Mayinja said. 
Notre Dame senior Anne Kroeger studied in Cairo the spring semester of her junior year. Kroeger dressed conserva­tively while she was there -no skirts shorter than mid-calf length and never any low-cut shirts, she said. And she always kept a scarf in her backpack to wrap around herself if she entered a restaurant. 
"You had to be conscientious of what the reality was there," she said. 
The security at her dorm in Cairo was so strong that she never felt unsafe in the building. Kroger said. 
"Unless you weren't smart, unless you made bad decisions, for the most part you were tine," she said. 
Self-responsibility is the bot­tom line, Sullivan said. The Office of International Studies provides the necessary informa­tion, but students must make an effort to absorb and utilize this advice. 
"After all is said and done, the student also needs to take responsibility for [his or her] own safety," she said. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 



THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box n9, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Gilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: R.ama Gottumukkala 
A<iST. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 

Mary Kate Malone 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dwtin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: JeffAlben 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CoNTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
{574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574} 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAIIIT MARY'S DESK smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe aurhors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q~mtions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Obo<r= (USPS 59') 2-4000) is publish«! Monday through Fnday accpr durillf; n:.am :md \"Kation ptTtods. A !!:Ubscription ro lhe Observer is $100 for one ~mic yar; $5~ fOr one :,cmc;stcr. 
The Ob.cnotr is publi>hal ..: PO~TMASTER Ol4 South Dttting HaU Send~ comaions ro: 
Notre D=e. IN 46556-0779 Thc Oboerver 
Periodical poouge p;rid •• Nom: D.me P.O. Bo, 779 
and >ddiwm:rl m.Uling nffi«s. 024 Soorh Dining Hall 

Norrc D•mt. IN 46556-m"79 
The Observ<r ~ a memher ofthe A=rut<d Press. Allr.pr>:><iuction righu are r<S<tYed. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Joe Piarulli Tim Dougherty Marcela Berrios Greg Arbogast Jennifer Metz Dan Cooper Viewpoint Scene 
Bethany Marty Schroeder Whitfield Graphics 
Jarred Wafer 

NDASK takes right approach 
Notre Dame Students Against State Killing {NDASK) was dents have already actively fought Taco Bell about the inhu­formed to "inspire and facilitate informed discussion on mane conditions of tomato workers in Immokalee, Fla. capital punishment, fostering increased knowledge of issues We have activism. But we need more. surrounding the death penalty." The message is not new, NDASK has refreshed the campus by promoting an intel­
but the group has breathed new life into the anti-death lectual discussion which both supporters and opponents of penalty cause by organizing a weekly lecture series on the capital punishment can be a part. topic. Still, it's important that the lectures do not get stale. A lec­
Whether or not students agree with the group's convic­ture series spanning several weeks risks losing its effective­tions, they should support the creation of such ness. The series' success will be largely deter­a body. NDASK has established a common O Jhe mined by its ability to stay fresh.
userver
ground and encouraged both sides to debate. Former Indiana Gov. Joe Kernan, who does NDASK has brought the campus into conver­not oppose the death penalty, will give the Nov.
Editorial
sation about a controversial issue. Instead of 15 NDASK lecture. During his tenure, Kernan 
the inefficient e-mails, posters and pamphlets that characterize all-too-common "awareness weeks," NDASK has given its cause a voice. By inviting prominent intellectuals to discuss the death penalty on campus, the group has spurred discussion in an academic setting and propelled students to take life issues seriously. It's making its cause almost unavoidable. 
The point is not that Notre Dame lacks political activism. CLAP actively campaigns for a living wage. Uganda-CAN actively organizes rallies, walks, fundraisers and lectures to educate the campus about atrocities in the region. And stu­
granted clemency to two individuals on death row -the only governor in the 48-year history of the death penalty in Indiana to do so. 
Kernan's inclusion shows that NDASK is not just bringing in another speaker against the death penalty. He is impor­tant to the discussion because of his alternate viewpoint. As governor, he questioned the quality and fairness of the legal process in capital punishment and came to his own decision. That's why groups like NDASK are important. They give the Notre Dame community an opportunity to question an issue, make an educated decision and continue the debate. 

Throwing 'da bums' out of Congress 
Next January, Congressman Chris Chocola will no longer represent the Notre Dame campus nor the surround­ing 2nd District of Indiana in the U.S. House of Representatives. Remarkably on Tuesday, he and two other incumbent Gary Caruso Republicans lost reelection bids in a Capitol formerly reliable Comments conservative Indiana. Ironically, Chocola's margin of loss was just shy of the margin he lost by in St. Joseph County. Most impor­tantly, the three new Democratic repre­sentatives from Indiana, when com­bined with Pennsylvania's four new Democratic pick-ups, accounted for half of the total necessary to change control in the House. It was evident early in the evening that Democrats would win the House. 
Exit polls nationally showed that vot­ers who wanted a change in Washington gave four reasons-the economy, corruption, terrorism and the Iraq war. No one category stood alone at the top of the list since they broke into nearly equal percentages. Contrary to pundits who opined that the election was primarily about Iraq, large num­bers of Republicans and many more Independents rebelled against the sex and influence peddling scandals in Congress. Voters rejected the political loyalty Republican leaders placed in favor of their rank-and-file members over illegal bribes or the welfare of teenage page boys. 
The voters' net cast wide and far across America as Democrats captured nearly 30 new House seats and the 6 seats necessary to control the U.S. Senate. History has shown that when­ever a national tide engulfs the House, it also sweeps a new party into the Senate. Considering that current gerry­mandering has reduced the number of competitive House districts today, this year's tidal wave was just as large as the Republican takeover of Congress in 
OBSERVER POLL 
Do you think the decision to give graduate students access to USC tickets was the correct one? 

A. Yes B.No 

This poU is based on 1002 votes recorded at http://Www.ndsmcobserver.com/ 
1994 against President Clinton or the Democratic takeover in 1986 against President Reagan. Noting that both of New Hampshire's congressional Republicans were defeated in a com­bined area that covered the entire state, those Republican senators should be thankful that neither of them faced reelection this year. Moreover, the types of Republican House seats in play this year came from scandal-ridden, hypo­critical, lazy or sloppy incumbents who had lost touch with their constituencies. 
For example, Congressman Jim Ryun in the 2nd District of Kansas, best known for his religious evangelicalism, as an American Olympian and as the first high school student to break the 4­minute mile running record, lost his House seat on Tuesday. The ethical scandals on Capitol Hill and Florida Congressman Mark Foley's sex1,1al advances toward teenage page boys tilted the finish line away from Ryun's field. Notre Dame classmate Steve Pallucca, who lives in that Southeast Kansas district, described how voters viewed Ryun. When asked how he would vote, one man sitting at a bar watching college football said with the typically dry humor of the region, "Ryun is running ads that say he has been fighting for me for 35 years. Hell, I figure that if he hasn't won by now it's time for someone else." 
In the Senate, no two pivotal races tell both ends of this year's electoral mood than the defeats of Republicans Rick Santorum in Pennsylvania or Lincoln Chafee in Rhode Island. Santorum embraced the Bush Administration policies on taxes, ter­rorism, government spending and the War in Iraq. Chafee, on the other hand, distanced himself as dramatically as anyone, even suggesting that it was a dirty campaign trick for New York Senator Hillary Clinton -who voted for the war in lraq -to campaign against Chafee who also voted to go to war. Ultimately, Santorum, Chafee and the 
Submit aLetter 
~ totbe Ediior at ! 
tVWIW.ndsmcObserver.com ~ 
other four Republican incumbent sena­tors targeted by Democrats lost their races which handed over control of the Senate. 
Sadly, undercurrents of racism sur­faced in Tennessee and Pennsylvania. The Republican National Committee's advertising in Tennessee suggested that Democratic Congressman Harold Ford, Jr., sought white Playboy bunnies at a Super Bowl party. That television ad moved voters away from the African­American candidate. In Pennsylvania, while no overt advertising aired against gubernatorial Republican candidate and former Pittsburgh Steeler great Lynn Swann, he garnered 60,000 fewer votes than Santorum who also lost his statewide race. 
No Democratic congressional incum­bent lost a seat in Tuesday's general election. That statistic alone speaks vol­umes about the dissatisfaction with President Bush, the Iraqi war and the ethically challenged Republican Congress. This election sent a message to Washington that among the troop killings that seem to be necessary at times, the killings still need to end. This election forced the American public to halt Bush's overreaching actions and change direction. Finally, good and decent Americans used this election to repudiate a disgraced Republican Congress by discarding Rush Limbaugh's talking points to place their trust in Democratic hands. 
According to my Kansas friend who quotes the Little Rascals, "I don't know where weeze going, but weeze on our way." 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a political strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. /lis column appears ez,ery other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol.com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You begin saving the world by saving one man at a time; all else is grandiose romanticism or politics." 
Charles Bukowski author 

--~·-· ~·"--d~
-·

------·----·....-----~-----........·--~--­

THE OBSERVER 

p
Friday, November 10, 2006 


page 11 
LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 

Both political parties imperfect 
Just before a football game begins, after the band has come out and played all the fight songs they know, they read­just their embouchures and play "America the Beautiful" while the flag is presented and raised above the stadi­um. During the presentation of colors, the wonderful announcer in the stadium recites both the Preamble to the Constitution and the opening and clos­ing lines of the Declaration of Independence. 
Now, I don't profess to be particularly patriotic, but when I hear those words, and remember what America is really about, I can't help but get a little choked up while I yell at the top of my lungs: "We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with cer­tain inalienable rights, and that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness ... And for the support of this Declaration, with a firm reliance on the protection of Divine Providence, we mutually pledge to each other our lives, our fortunes and our sacred honor." 
Then I read about the Military 
Commissions Act of 2006 (Bill S 3930, 
passed a little over a month ago, popu­
larly called the "Torture Amendment"), 
and I despair. 

Despair calls to mind another depress­ing article I read recently: Jonathan Klinger's column on Nov. 7 ("A time for choosing"). I enjoy reading his columns in order to expand my views and approach ideas from a different angle, but his latest two columns have been disappointing, to say the least. 
As I recall, on Oct. 24 he informed us (in intellectually elite language) that Jesus was a Republican ("A call to arms"). Aside from the obvious theologi­cal implications of this issue (for starters, Jesus is God, and God is inde­finable; and never mind how far apart he is from our petty political squabbles), I found it trite that he would sink to such levels in his attempt to convert oth­ers. 
Then I read his thinly disguised attack on Joe Donnelly. Allow me to clarify my position before I continue: I am not a 
Examining terminology 
In his recent exchange with Daniel Hicks over whether Plan B emergency contraception acts as an abortifacient ("The facts on Plan B," Nov. 8), Andrew Rosato relies on an untenable defmition of pregnancy. Since this mistake is com­mon to many with views such as Rosato's-including Professor Charles Rice, whose article began this debate ­the i'isue deserves independent atten­tion. 
According to the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, preg­nancy is "established only after implan­tation [of the fertilized embryo] is com­plete" (www.acog.org). Since an aborti­facient acts by terminating a pregnan­cy, merely preventing implantation can­not count as an abortion in the medical defmition of this term. 
Moreover, there are good reasons to accept this medical definition. One is the fact, cited by ACOG, that in the nor­mal course of things between one-third and one-half of all fertilized eggs fail to implant. This fact would seem to consti­tute something of an embarrassment to those, like Rosato, who hold that human lite begins when a human egg is fertilized. For such a view is then com­mitted to saying that at least one-third of all human beings naturally abort. 

If this in turn means that the life of those beings has been taken unjustly ­a position Rosato seems to endorse -it then follows that God or nature (I leave it to you to decide) is morally responsi­ble for taking a great deal of innocent human life. 
Kevin Robbins 
graduate student offcampus Nov.9 
Hoosier, and so my contact with Hoosier values is limited to my few months here at Notre Dame. I also have not been keeping track of Donnelly or Chris Chocola's policies or personal track records, beyond laughing in derision at both of their lowbrow campaign com­mercials. 
Klinger begins his argument by assur­ing his readers that he "like[s] to think that Joe Donnelly is an honorable and honest man," though once he states this premise, he abandons it entirely, thus implying a high level of sarcasm. He apparently thinks that Donnelly is inca­pable of making decisions for himself, and that party loyalty is the only thing on his mind. And of course, since all members of the Democratic Party are inherently evil, anyone he would vote into a position of leadership would .b..e bad news for the country. Of cours~e would be "forced" into voting for Democrats. 
Yes, it is a fact that most politicians vote with their party on almost every issue. This works both ways: Chocoia probably voted for leaders such as Tom Delay, who is now on trial in Texas for corruption charges. According to www.vote-smart.com, Chocola also voted with his party on the Military Commissions Act. Neither party is blameless, and neither party is entirely evil. Attempting to simplify the issue into a black-white scenario only furthers the ugly partisan nature of modern American politics, and choosing to use such shnplification to sway others is arrogant and elitist. 
Please, Jonathan Klinger, in the future I ask you to respect our intelligence as readers, and to examine the log in your party's eye before you attack the log in mine. After all, "together, we can accomplish the radical change we all so desire by first altering our own behavior and then edifying our neighbors. The revolution begins with you." 
Johanna IGrsch freshman McGlinn Hall Nov. 8 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

U-WIRE 

Celebrating our political pastime 
The real winner of Tuesday's elections was CNN. I settled down into my couch around 7 
p.m. with an arsenal of chips and soda and my laptop to get me through the next five hours of insipid news coverage. Katie 
Election coverage is Strickland for political geeks 
UCLA

what the Super Bowl is for men with beer bel­Daily Bruin lies. Both are generally drawn out and boring with few moments of actual surprise or suspense. 
Special touches such as half-naked girls with pom-poms and patriotic animations make these events worth watching. And there is something to be said for the few tidbits of information the newscasters offer. 
As I began flipping through the 10 con­secutive news channels in my cable lineup, I realized CNN's graphics kicked everyone else's butts. 
While Fox and MSNBC made half-heart­ed attempts with some bar graphs, CNN pulled out all the stops. 
Wolf Blitzer waved his arm over a color­coded map of the U.S. like a weatherman, and all of the pundits had color-eoded ties -red for Republicans, blue for Democrats. 
Aside from all the sparkles and garnish­es, I did glean some information during my TV-election-news marathon. As of my writ­ing this, the Democrat'> have gained con­trol of the House of Representatives. The party that seemed as if it would never suc­ceed at anything ever again may have con­trol of not only the House but also the · Senate. 
Even better, the new Speaker of the House will be Nancy Pelosi, a congress­woman from San Francisco -possibly the most liberal city on the face of the Earth. 
At worst, this change of power in the House will not alter U.S. policies much due to President Bush's veto power, but Congress will have an awesome time cre­ating special investigation committees for every awful idea the Bush administration has ever had (see: Guantanamo Bay, war in Iraq, etc.). 
At best, the Dems will take the Senate as well. With their newfound confidence and led by the fiery Pelosi, who likes to . describe Bush as "incompetent" and "dan­gerous," they will launch an attempt to impeach the president. 
Not a serious attempt, of course, but just for the fun of putting him on trial in front of the nation and making him question the definition of the abbreviation "WMD." 
The time to strike is now, when the enemy is weak. After the whole nation gave the GOP the middle finger during midterm elections, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld resigned the morning after I fmished the first draft of this col­umn, caving into the pressure of critics of the Iraq war. 
Perhaps most foreboding of all, Britney Spears, an avid supporter of Bush, has filed for divorce. 
Oh, how the mighty have fallen. 
The Dems must be careful, however, of becoming too eocky. Conservatism still reigns supreme in some parts ofthe nation. 
I was beginning to worry about liberal California as I watehed the precinct., reporting online. Propflsition 85 would have required minors to notify their par­ents prior to having an abortion -an obvious hazard to women's reproductive rights. 
Although the proposition failed, it was reported late Tuesday night that 46.2 per­cent of voters favored it. That's a frighten­ingly close margin. 
Through the night, I was entertained when an animation from "The Daily Show with Jon Stewart" showed Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger using laser beams from 
his eyeballs to vaporize Phil Angelides. I was amused when a fat, bald man pre­tended to be Vanna White as he manipu­
lated a touch screen drawing ofthe House of Representatives. 
But why didn't I just wait until tomorrow to scan over the newspaper and be done with it? 
Why did so many people tune in to MSNBC's online coverage that the site gave me an error message and told me to try again later? 
Perhaps it's one of the few times Americans can feel connected to the rest of the nation through one subject. It's that sense of unity we get from knowing that despite our diflerences, we all care about the political future of our country. 
Mostly though, it's the satisfaction we get from jumping on the couch and screaming "We won!" in the faces of the losers. 
It's as American as apple pie, McDonald's and the Super Bowl. 
This column originally appeared in the Nov. 9 edition ofthe Daily Bruin. the daily publication at UCLA. 
The t'iews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

h· 
------..-··-'----··------------------------------·.
-~------­

Friday, November 10, 2006 
page 12 


SUB BRINGS BEN FoLDS FoR FALL CoNCERT 
By MARTY SCHROEDER 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Hockin' the suburbs since 1994, Ben Folds will be rocking the Stepan Center tonight in his first appearance at Notre Dame. The concert, organized and spon­sored by SUB, promises to be one of the most high-profile and highly-anticipated concerts to ever hit the Notre Dame stu­dent body in recent memory. Ben Folds, as is evidenced by the sold-out status of the show, holds a special place in the hearts of students with his blend of pop, punk and piano rock alongside smart, emotive and creative lyrics. 
This concert has been in the works for some time now. According to SUB presi­dent and Notre Dame senior Patrick Vassel, Ben Folds has been consistently at the top of polls SUB uses to gauge which musicians and acts the student body would like to see. 
"He is one of the most popular musicians among Notre Dame students and the demand for him has been there for some time, as the speed with which the concert sold out proved," Vassel said. 
Sadly, not all who would have liked to s~e Folds will get the chance. But tbe ~i­~on to ha~e the concert in the~ffpan Center instead of Legends or another tra­ditional concert venue has allowed the most students possible to see the show. 
As far as planning, this concert has been in the works for almost seven months. SUB's traditional fall concert usually enters the preliminary planning stages when the fall semester begins. However, Vassel said SUB contacted Folds' agent last April. The hard work paid oft' as Folds is one of the biggest names to come to Notre Dame. 
The Stepan Center is being used for this concert, as opposed to the Joyce Athletic and _convocation Center -the common staging ground for "The Show" due to the relative low cost. The Stepan Center is controlled by the Student Activities Office and therefore, according to Vassel, is easi­er to book and cheaper to set up and staff than the JACC. 
"The capacity of 1,800 is larger than any other indoor venue on campus besides the JACC, which would have been prohibitively expensive for us to use," Vassel said. 
The JACC's involvement in this debate raises the question regarding why Ben Folds was not brought in as a participant in "The Show," especially when consider­ing that many more students would have been able to obtain tickets. However, Folds was touring in Australia at the time, mak­ing this arrangement impossible. SUB then decided tQ..!>{!ng him in for the rail concert and the snow's quick sellout displays the success of this decision. 
Vassel also noted the hard work of the SUB staff in bringing Folds to Notre Dame. Specifically, junior co-concert program­mers Chris Lund and Matt Larew have worked on budgets and logistics and han­dled contacts with Folds and his agent to bring Folds to Notre Dame. 

Opening for Ben Folds is Corn Mo, the stage name of Jon Cunningham. He is a one-man act who performs an admixture of circus music, glam rock and humor­till~d nQyelty ~ongs. He plays the accordion and keyboards, which will fill in nicely with Ben Folds and his piario rock. He aided They Might Be Giants with their cult classic "Particle Man." His debut album, "I Hope You Win!" has been described as heavy metal vaudeville. A little weird and a little crazy, he promises to be anything but unentertaining. 
Folds' visit marks a return to campus for the musician, following a show the Five played on campus in the '90s. The sold-out show and his general popularity promise to make this show one of the most exciting live shows at Notr~ Dame in years. 
~ . . i 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 

BEN FOLDS: POWER POP AND NERD ROCK MASTER 
By MARTY SCHROEDER 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Ben Folds proves pop music can still be good. In the mid-'90s, he, Robert Sledge and Darren Jesse formed the band Ben Folds Five. With no guitars to be seen anywhere, this band took off with catchy pop songs and entered the scene just as the "nerd rock" movement was about to break it big in the main­stream. 
Sadly or no, Ben Folds Five dissolved in 2000 but Folds launched a solo career and is at the top of his game. The music that made him famous with the Five is now keeping him famous on his own. Tonight, he will play some of his "punk rock for wimps," from his time with Ben Folds Five and his solo career, to a sold­out crowd at the Stepan Center. 
Folds was born in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. The mid-80s were not the kindest to Folds as he searched across the country -and Europe -for a place to let his muse come forth and blossom. In the era of hair bands, Folds' meld of pop, punk and pianos was not what band managers and record execu­tives wanted to record and sell. 
Enter bassist Robert Sledge and drum­mer Darren Jesse as Folds made his way back to his home state of North Carolina, ending up in Chapel Hill. They cut an indie self-titled debut with Passenger Records and found themselves suddenly popular. With that, the bidding wars for this up and coming band began. Finally signing with Sony, their sophomore album -which many consider to be their best -materialized in the form of "Whatever and Ever Amen." With hits such as the exciting "Kate" and the melodic and cathartic "Brick," it seemed the public was finally ready for a rock band whose main instrument was a piano, not a guitar. 
Two years later saw "The Unauth­orized Autobiography of Reinhold Messner." Although not as popular as the preceding album, it was still a strong showcase of the interesting and unique sound Ben Folds Five had come. to call their own. A creative force in the cesspool of uncreative late '90s pop, Folds brought in a horn section on "Don't Change Your Plans," talked about growing up in the catchy "Army" and let his muse get a little silly with "Your Redneck Past." Through all three albums, Folds remained the creative force and namesake of this most unique pop band. 
However, Ben Folds Five was destined for a dissolution in 2000 after releasing only three, yet all top-notch, albums. Folds, never one to stop making some of the best power pop ever heard, worked for a year after the split and released the solo "Hockin' the Suburbs" to high criti­cal acclaim. Proving himself a master musician, he played most if not all the instruments used in the album. "Annie Waits," "Hockin' the Suburbs" and "Zak and Sara" are prime examples of the power pop fans have come to know and love, while the introspective "Fred Jones, Pt. 2" and "The Luckiest" bring the album·back down to earth and infuse it with a heart that counters the fun of other songs. This album is not as groundbreaking as "Forever and Ever Amen," but then again. fans know what to expect from Folds, and "Hockin' the Suburbs" is Folds at his best -which is definitely laudable. 
Folds has toured all around the world and has come to define power pop for the generation that grew up, and is still growing up, with him. Creating music that is catchy, fun and full of heart all at the same time, he is a singular figure in the world of popular music. He may be famous, but that hasn't gone to his head and he continues to produce music that is artistic and fun. Folds is popular because he makes good music people can identify with. He doesn't need pow­erful producers to make his music -all he needs is his muse. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 




Friday, November 10, 2006 page 13 
LEGENDS SPOTLIGHT 

Pete Francis brings solo funk, jam to Legends 
farewell concert, performed at the
By BRIAN DOXTADER 

Hatch Shell in Boston, was attended by
Scene Ediror 

roughly 110,000 fans. Francis is cur­rently touring to promote "Everything 
Take· a shower, shine your shoes, Is One," which was released earlier this you've got no time to lose because Pete year. Francis is playing at Legends on Francis' solo work often resembles Saturday. It will be the musician's first his material with Dispatch, with cre­time performing at Notre Dame, a ative touches and showcases of his venue he actively sought out. musicianship. His first two albums are 
"As a matter of fact, Pete came to us," softer, more refined and more contem­said Aaron Perri, general manager of plative than Dispatch, which demon­Legends. strates that they are clearly the work of 
According to Perri, Francis was look­a solo artist, rather than a band. Yet ­ing for a -gig in the area, and e-mailed the sense of songwriting and craft that Legends about possibly performing in made Dispatch so successful is evident South Bend on Notre Dame's campus. on both "Untold" and "Everything Is 
"I think it says a lot about Legends," One," alleviating concerns that Francis Perri said. "A high-profile artist like has lost his touch. Francis coming to us shows that we've The singer-songwriter will be bring­become the 'must-play' venue in the ing a full backing band and is expected area." to perform both songs by Dispatch and 
Francis was a member of the Boston­his own material. He will likely play the based band Dispatch between 1995 and most famous songs from his Dispatch 2004. Comprised of Francis (under his years, such as "The General" and will full name, Peter Francis Heimbold), also probably play hits from Brad Corrigan "Everything Is and Chad Urm­One." ston, Dispatch Pete Francis Perri says that first came to of Dispatch he expects the national promi­show to be well­nence in 1996 When: Saturday, Nov. 11 at 10 p.m. received and well with the release Where: Legends of Notre Dame Club -attended, which of their debut Cost: free for Notre Dame, St. Mary's and means it will alb.um, ~',Silent Holy Cross students with stt,tdent ID likely fill Leg­
1J ',.. ---;) ,, .
Steeples,'· which ends.' 629-personq · showcased their capacity. unique reggae/jam blend. Francis was "A show like this, with someone like 
o·nly in his early 20s at the time. Their Francis, usually plays to a packed follow-up, "Bang Bang," was well­house," Perri remarked. received and featured one of their most Perri also noted that Francis is part of well-known songs, "The General." a solid fall lineup at Legends, which 
Dispatch combined elements of included former Stone Temple Pilots acoustic-pop, folk and rock, with touch­singer Scott Weiland and Tally Hall, es of reggae and funk. The band was among others. Perri stressed that 
notable for its musicianship, as mem­Legends is committed to keeping their bers switched instruments and vocal shows free. duties from song-to-song. Francis is an "You could go to Chicago and see Pete accomplished singer, bassist and gui­Francis and it would cost you $40," 
tarist and has been featured on both Perri said. "Or, if you're a student, you instruments. Dispatch's triple har­can see it here for free." monies and jam band tendencies made Pete Francis will be one of Legends them a fan favorite, and they regularly biggest shows of the semester, and 
played to sold-out shows across the should provide an evening's worth of nation. great music. The concert begins at 10 
After the band decided to take an p.m. extended hiatus in 2001, Francis staked out on his own, releasing his solo album 
Contact Brian Doxtader at

"Untold" in 2003. Dispatch officially broke up later that year, and their bdoxtade@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of en.wikipedia.org 
Pete Francis, center, former lead singer of the college jam band Dispatch, will be bringing his solo funk style to the Legends of Notre Dame Saturday at 10 p.m. 
. , .•• 1 

. --..-. ' . .., ... ~ ­
'

.··. . ..-• _.; '!".-....". -~ ·....... ' ......... 

DEBARTOL 
PERFORMING ARTS C 
B~g Love (Philbin Theatre) Fnday, Nov. 10 at 7:30 p.m. Saturday, Nov. 11 at 7:30 p.m. Sunday, Nov. 12 at 2:30p.m. 
Notre Dame Concert Bands Fa Saturday, Nov. 12 at 3:00 p.m. 



I Was Born, But••• Sunday, Nov. 12 at 4:00 p.m. 
Come and See Friday, Nov. 10 at 7:00 p.m. 
Au Revoir Les Enfants Friday, Nov 10 at10:00 p.m. Saturday, Nov. 11 at 3:00 p.m. 
Into the Arms of Strangers Saturday, Nov. 11 at 7:00 p.m. 
Europa, Europa Saturday, Nov. 11 at 10:00 p.m. 
-. =~~::::::-:~~::. 
. . .._'*-?¢4::8::

LEGENDs 
OF NOTRE DAME 
The Sklar Bros. Friday, Nov. 10 at 10:00 p.m. 
Pete Francis Saturday, Nov. 11 at 10:00 p.m. 


TOM HANCULAK I Oberver Graphic 

r· L­- 
_L_  - ~,  •"  •  •  .~ .. ·,.. .  ,.:  l'f : -. • It' -r-I i' , .... .;' ~  '  1  •  ·\ .,  
-~-------~.~~....-...:-­ 



Friday, November 10, 2006 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NHL 

Cole's hat trick leads Canes in rout of Caps 
... 
Yashin's two goals, DiPietro's 32 saves prove an unbeatable combo as Islanders send Flyers to fourth straight loss 
jeopardy of missing the playoffs for the first time since the 
1993-94 season. 

Not even a coaching change has jolted the Flyers out of their season-long funk. Philadelphia lost its fourth straight, dropped to 2-5 under John Stevens and are 3-11-1 overall for a league-worst seven points. Through 15 games last season, the Flyers were 11-3-1. 
Oh, and it could get worse. Northeast Division-leading Buffalo comes to town on Saturday. 
"It's early, but we're getting far behind," captain Peter Forsberg said. "We're getting left by ourselves down there. If we're going to have any chance of turning this season around, we've got to start winning
.. 

now. The Islanders were sharp in their first game since coach Ted AP 

Capitals goalie Brent Johnson, right, blocks a shot on goal by

Nolan said his team seemed to 
Hurricanes' Justin Williams {11) Thursday. 

quit in Monday's 5-1 loss to • 
~......~...---j 
I ~ 
/
/ 
~ 
~ 
f 
~ ~ ~ 
f f 
~ 
Bruins goalie Tim Thomas makes a diving save in the first period against the Maple Leafs Thursday In Boston. The Bruins won the game 6-4. 
~  
f, ~, ~,,,  CLASSIFIEDS  The Obsen:'e~ accepts classifie~ every business day. from.s a.m. to 3 f.m. ~t the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dmmg Hall. Deadlme for next-day class1fieds IS 3 p.m. Al class1fieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
f  
f  
f  ND Home Games, Hassei-Free  HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6  7 bedroom furnished house avail- FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232­ UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
~ ,' f , ~,,,,,  WANTED WANTED: 1990 or 91 The Shirt. $100 for quality shirt. Call Dan at 712-251-0930_  Lodging. 3 Bdrm home/5min.walk from stadium. A one-time fee of $99,000 to buy a nice, clean home for all games. For more info call 574·360-8707. 3 Persian carpets priced to selL 574·291-8514.  Bedrooms www_NDstudentrentals.com Rooms for rent for football week· ends. Close to campus. Call 574­243-0658. ROOMS FOR RENT for ND  able now. Perfect for FOOTBALL weekends/reunions. 269-369-1003. Photos available. 2-6 BDRM HOMES 07-08 OR NOW. 574·329·0308 E Washington St., updated, 4 bed,2  0964 WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY WILL PAY MORE. 574­288-2726. FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK·  not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. So a blond walks into a bar, and  
~ ,,  FoR SALE  FOR RENT  games,etc. Visit gardenviewbe­dandbreakfast.com or call 574-243­0392. Special rates available.  baths, wash/dryer, AJC, security system, dishwasher, NICE! Call John 574-274-5692.  ETS. BEST PRICES. 574·232­2378.  she says._. Ouch I don't understand this obsession w/ Grey's Anatomy. We need 24 back  
House Available for 07·08 Year.  on the air. That's a real show.  
3 bedroom ranch. 1-112 bath. Totally remodeled. New kitchen and  BLUE & GOLD HOMES,  Close to Campus. Just Renovated to Brand New Condition.  TICKETS  PERSONAL  Projected Results for this weekend:  
heating/air. $99,900. 1820 Oak  off-campus homes & weekend  Open to groups of 9-11  New York Jets 34, New England 2  
Park near Edison/Ironwood. Call  rentals.  Students. Contact  WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251­ HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY, CHRISTl- Kansas City 56, Miami 5  
Tony 574-303-0311.  Bluegoldrentals.com  MacSwain@ gmail.com  1570  NA!!! WE LOVE YOU!!!  LaDanian Tomlinson 28, Bengals 7  

Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. -First, Cam Ward won the Conn Smythe Trophy. Then, he posted his first regular-season shutout. 
Carolina's star goalie seem­ingly is reaching his career goals in reverse order, and Hurricanes coach Peter Laviolette doesn't seem to mind. 
Ward stopped 20 shots and Erik Cole scored three goals to lead the Hurricanes to a 5-0 victory over the Washington Capitals on Thursday night. 
"Working backwards a little bit," Laviolette said. "But that's OK. We're happy with the order." 
Eric Staal and Trevor Letowski also scored, and Scott Walker had two assists for Carolina. 
Ward, the MVP of the Hurricanes' run to the Stanley Cup title last season, had two shutouts in the 2006 playoffs. 
In the best regular-season performance of his career, Ward said he picked up momentum midway through the second period when the Hurricanes, leading 1-0, killed off Washington's two-man advantage, which lasted 2:18, and went on to a lopsided win. 
"Up until that 5-on-3, I didn't see a whole lot of shots," Ward said. "It can really change the momentum of a game if you kill that ofT." ­
Cole kept the pressure on 
Capitals goalie Brent Johnson, recording his fourth career hat trick and first since an 8-2 win over Montreal on Jan. 31, 2006. 
It also was his first multigoal game since March 4 against Pittsburgh, but that's a game Cole probably would rather for­get. Later in that one, he was run over from behind by Brooks Orpik, breaking his neck in an injury that cost Cole three months. 
"I felt like I was just racing up and down the ice" in the first period, Cole said. "As the game went on, I kind of slowed down a bit and tried to make more plays rather than sprint up the ice. Pucks were going in the net." 
Islanders 3, Flyers 1 
The Islanders found the best way to bust out of a mini-slump and prove to their coach there was no quit in them: Play the Flyers. 
Alexei Yashin scored twice and Rick DiPietro stopped 32 shots to lift New York to a win over NHL-worst Philadelphia on Thursday night. 
"We have to realize we have a really good team," Yashin said. "When we win two or three in a row, we got so high, and then when we lose two in a row, we come down." 
Imagine how the Flyers must feel. · The Flyers dropped to 2-5-1 at home and are already in 

Tampa Bay and snapped a two­game losing streak in which they were outscored 9-2 at home. 
"I was concerned with our effort the last couple of games, but I wasn't concerned with the people we have here," Nolan said. "They're a good group of guys, but we have to make sure we're on them a little bit and don't take anything for grant-ed." 
The Islanders started a five­game road swing after playing 
AP 
nine of 10 at home. They scored twice in the first period, never giving the Flyers a chance to get going early, and DiPietro made the goals stand 
· up with a stellar effort, coming close to his first shutout since April 8 against Washington. 
"Their team put a lot of pucks on net and pressured hard. Our 

-defensemen did a good job in front of the net limiting their time in the zone," DiPietro said. DiPietro and teammate Arron Asham got into a brief scuffie in Wednesday's practice. Maybe the quick fight fired up the goalie, who was perfect until Simon Gagne scored his eighth goal on a power play in the game's final minutes. That made the Flyers 8-for­91 on power-play·chances. 
Maple Leafs 6, Bruins 4 
Andrew Raycroft's return to Boston mirrored his career with the Bruins. He got off to a great start, but had an uneasy finish. 
Raycroft made 28 saves in the Toronto Maple Leafs' victory over the Bruins. He didn't make it to the end though Thursday night because of a groin strain. 
In his first game back in Beantown since being traded by the Bruins during the offseason, Raycroft stayed around long enough to win his fifth straight start. Toronto was leading 5-2 when Raycroft was forced out late in the second period. 
"The script, it was going to be too good to be true," Raycroft said. "Of course, something has to happen at some point to me. It would have obviously been really nice to finish that." 
Raycroft doesn't think the injury is serious, and he should be back within a week. 
Jean-Sebastien Aubin replaced Raycroft, and saved just 5 of 7 shots as Boston near­ly came all the way back from a four-goal deficit. 
Alexei Ponikarovsky had a goal and an assist, and Chad Kilger also scored for the Maple Leafs. 
Nik Antropov gave Toronto a 4-0 lead 4:04 into the second period and Ponikarovsky restored the four-goal advan­tage 1:18 after Marco Sturm netted the Bruins' first goal. 
The Bruins pulled to within 5­4 when Wayne Primeau poked Brad Boyes' pass in front of the net past Aubin at 13:31 of the third period. But Aubin held Boston scoreless the rest of the way, and Antropov's empty-net goal sealed it with 11 seconds left. 
Hal Gill, who spent the first eight years of his career with Boston before signing with Toronto in the offseason, had an assist for Toronto. Darcy Tucker and Michael Peca also scored for the Maple Leafs, who have won six of seven. 
Marc Savard and P.J. Axelsson added goals for the Bruins, who have lost three of four. 




ATION 


Cotv1PILED FROM THE OBSERVER's vvtRE SERVICES page 15 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

NHL Eastern Conference, Atlantic 
team  record  GF  GA  
~wh~ey  •s  u  ~  
NY Rangers  8·6  54  54  
PiHsburgh  7·4  44  37  
NY Islanders  7·6  41  46  
Philadelphia  3·11  30  60  

Eastern Conference, Northeast 
team record GF GA Buflalo 12-1 63 39 Toronto 9·5 58 57 Montreal 8·3 46 39 OHawa 5·8 44 39 Boston 4·6 32 48 
Eastern Conference, Southeast 
team record GF GA Atlanta 12·3 67 51 Carolina 8-6 55 56 Tampa Bay 8-7 54 47 Washington 6-5 47 53 Florida 6-7 44 53 
Western Conference, Northwest 
team record GF GA Minnesota 10.-4 42 30 Vancouver 8-7 40 38 Colorado 7·6 51 49 Edmonton 7-7 40 42 Calgary 5-7 37 40 
Western Conference, Pacific 
team record GF GA Anaheim 11-0 53 35 Dallas 11-4 44 29 SanJOSf! 11·5 49 35 Los Angeles 5-9 42 53 Phoenix 4-10 36 63 
Western Conference, Central 
team. record GF •..·GAmn~: 
.-:t:,·:~·::··.:-. 
,.. 31'' "'" ., ..... .

Detreit 11J..4 41 Natttvllle 9-3 47 39 Columbus 5·7 32 41 
. SU.~is 4-7 36 48 Chicago' ··?¥··· 4-9 36 49 
NCAA Men's Soccer  
team  record  prev.  
1  SMU  17-1-4  2  
1  Duke  16·3*1  9  
3  Virginia  14-3-1  3  
4  Wake Forest  15·3*3  1  
5  Santa Clara  12-4-4  7  
6  Indiana  14·4*2  10  
7  Maryland  15·4-1  5  
8  Saint Louis  13·4*2  8  
9  St. John's (N.Y.)  13·5-2  NR  
10  Clemson  12·4*2  6  
11  Cal  12-5-1  11  
12  NOTRE DAME  12·5-2  12  
13  Harvard  13·4-0  17  
14  Kentucky  14·5-2  13  
15  Lehigh  15·1·2  14  
16  Monmouth  14·3-3  16  
17  West Virginia  15·2·3  4  
18  UC Irvine  13·4-3  18  
19  North Carolina  11·5·3  19  
20  Towson  14·1-3  15  

around the dial 
TODAY 
NBA 

Miami Heat at New Jersey Nets 8 p.m., ESPN 
Detroit Pistons at LA Lakers 
10:30 p.m., ESPN 

NCAA FOOTBALL Texas EI-Paso at UAB 7:30 p.m., ESPN 2 
Associated Press PISCATAWAY, N.J. ­Rutgers arrived -and kicked No. 3 Louisville right out of the national champi­onship scramble. The program that once set the standard for college football futility jumped into the title picture Thursda} night by rallying from a big deficit for a 28-25 victory over the Cardinals. On his second chance, Jeremy Ito kicked a 28­yard tiebreaking field goal with 13 seconds left and the second consecutive prime­time showdown between Big East unbeatens went to No. 15 Rutgers (9-0, 4-0). "This is the new 
Rutgers," said Scarlet Knights fullback Brian leonard, the fifth-year sen­ior who was a redshirt freshman on a 1-11 team. "This is a dream of mine." 
Just a week ago, it was Louisville (8-1, 3-1) cele­brating the biggest win in school history, a 44-34 vic­tory over West VIrginia that vaulted the Cardinals into the thick of the national championship race. 
This time, it was Rutgers' turn to party. 
The Scarlet Knights shut out the high-scoring Cardinals in the second half, erased an 18-point deficit and got the ball with 
5:28 left in the fourth quar­ter at their own 9. 
"You don't come back the way we did tonight unless you have believers," coach Greg Schiano said. 
Leonard went 26 yards with a pass in the flats to get Rutgers into Louisville territory and Ray Rice broke a 20-yard run to get into field-goal range. Ito missed a 33-yarder with 18 seconds left, but Louisville was offside and Ito got another shot -and it was perfect. 
The final play, appropri­ately, was a sack of Brian Brohm by a Rutgers' defense that proved worthy of the No. 2 ranking in the country. 
"We were totally out of sync in the second half, and that can't happen," Louisville coach Bobby Petrino said. "Some of our goals are still out there, that we can reach. We're going to need some help." 
After the game, Rutgers fans flooded the field and swarmed the players. 
"It's so awesome with 44,000 fans on this field right now, all Rutgers fans," Leonard said. 
There are now four unde­feated teams in the country -No. 1 Ohio State, No. 2 Michigan, No. 14 Boise State and -it's probably hard for many to believe ­Rutgers. 
IN BRIEF 

Three tied for lead after first round of Tour Championship 
RICHMOND, Texas Gary Christian overcame back spasms, Andrew Buckle rallied with five con­secutive birdies and ClifT Kresge made a late eagle Thursday to grab shares of the first-round lead in the Nationwide Tour Championship. 
Christian, Buckle and Kresge opened with 5-under 67s in the sea­son-ending event at The Houstonian. The winner will earn $135,000, while the season money champion will be fully exempt on the 2007 PGA Tour and earn a spot in The Players Championship. Nos. 2-22 on the final money list will be conditionally exempt on the PGA Tour and Nos. 23­37 will get spots in the final stage of the National Qualifying Tom:nament. 
Chris Tidland, Steve Allan and Brandt Snedecker shot 68s. 
"Sometimes it's a matter of sur­vival," Buckle said. "Today I tried to think my way around the golf course." 
Driver Scott Sharp to joinLetterman Racing 
INDIANAPOLIS -lndyCar Series veteran Scott Sharp is joining Rahal Letterman Hacing, giving the team a second driver for next season. 
Sharp will join returning driver Jeff Simmons with Hahal Letterman, which lost Danica Patrick to Andretti Green Racing and has not been able to line up a sponsor for 2004 Indy 500 winner Buddy Rice. 
Sharp, 38, is the IRL's longest­tenured driver and has won nine races while driving in all 11 seasons since the series started. He finished 12th in the IRL driver standings this past season while driving for Delphi Fernandez Racing, with his best fin­ishes being fifth in the Texas and Richmond races. 
"Scott has demonstrated over the years to be one of the most consis­tent drivers in the IndyCar Series and he is a proven race winner," team eo-owner Bobby Hahal said. 
Mauresmo and Henin-Hardenne to face in semis 
MADRID, Spain Amelie Mauresmo won't have the top rank­ing after Sunday but she can still retain her WTA Championships title after beating Martina Hingis 3-6, 6­1, 6-4 on Thursday. 
Mauresmo's defeat of former two­time winner Hingis set up a final Yellow Group match with Justine Henin-Hardenne that Mauresmo must win to advance to the semifi­nals. 
"For me, I need to go out and win that match. It's the only solution for me to qualify," Mauresmo said. 
Henin-Hardenne reached the semis with a 6-4, 6-4 win over Nadia Petrova. 
Henin-Hardenne's group record is 2-0, Mauresmo's 1-1, and Petrova and Hingis are each 1-2. 
No. 3-ranked Henin-llardenne is focused not on finishing ranked No. 1, but winning her first WTA Championships crown. 
---·--­

' ...... • • ,j •
. .' 

------------------------------------------....--­
Friday, November 10, 2006 




• I I
• 




Friday, November 10, 2006 

The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FooTBALL 

Lion in bed: Paterno to miss his first game since 1977 season 
Penn State coach will designate coaching duties to assistant 
Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. -Joe Paterno declared himself "out" for Penn State's next game Saturday, designating longtime assistant Tom Bradley to make any tough calls in the school's first contest without the coaching icon since 1977. 

Better make the right deci­sions, though, Tom: Paterno undoubtedly will be watching. 
Heeding his doctor's advice, Paterno told his staff Thursday that he would not be at Beaver Stadium for Saturday's game against Temple. The 79-year-old coach had surgery Sunday to repair a fractured shinbone and two torn knee ligaments 
in his left leg, injuries sus­tained in a sideline collision in a loss last week to Wisconsin. 
His left leg fitted with a tem­porary brace, Paterno spoke with his assistants Thursday morning during a meeting at his Mount Nittany Medical Center room. 
"You guys know what you're doing and what I want enough that I don't need to be there creating a huge distraction Saturday," he told them, 
according to a team state­ment. "Enough on me; let's get back to football." 
Paterno is eager to check out, though he won't be released until team doctor Wayne Sebastianelli is satis­fied with the progress of his recovery. So it's unclear whether Paterno will watch his squad Saturday from home or from his room at the hospi­tal, just down the street from the stadium. 
The coach "just realized he's got to be proactive," D'Elia said, "that in this condition it wasn't safe to be out and about." 

So JoePa and his rolled-up khakis will be missing from the Penn State sideline for the first time since 1977, when he missed a game after his son, David, was involved in an accident. Paterno also missed a game as an assistant in 1955 after his father died. . . 
Financing a new vehicle can be challenging. 
Visit our on campus location 021 LaFortune Student Center 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 


Smokey Bones 
\Ve make it easy, and we'll give you 1% Cash Back on any auto loan! 
Plus, we offer the sa1ne low rate on ne\v and used auto loans. 
Apply today! 


NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You con bonk on us to be better 
One of the few places to vvatch the N.D. vs. A.F. garre 
A.ir:in;r at 4 : 00 p .rn. cane for great foo::l, drinks and the game. 
4010 N. Main Street in ~shawaka 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles looking for first win of season 
Dombkowski hopes young team co1nes together for weekend 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's hopes to notch its first win of the young sea­son against Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology in Terre Haute Saturday. 
The 0-3 Belles have dropped meets to Olivet, Hope and Carthage so far this year. Facing an 0-1 Rose-Hulman team may provide an opportu­
nity  to  turn  their  season  
around.  
First-year  coach  Ryan  

Dombkowski sees similarities between Hose-llulman and Saint Mary's. 
"Hose-Hulman is a team that, like Saint Mary's, strug­gles with depth," Dombkowski said. "We're not quite deep enough to be extremely com­petitive in our conference." 
The scoring system in swim­ming is heavily weighted toward first-place finishes, Dombkowski said, but the deciding factor of the meet will 
lie in every result -not just 
wins. 
"A battle for every position 
[including second through 
fifth] results in multiple point 
swings in either direction," he 
said. "Winning these battles 
will be the key to winning the 
meet." 
Attitude and focus will play a 
large role on Saturday as well, 
according to sophomore 
Melissa Gerbeth. 
"The team needs to get in 
focus on Saturday and get in 
the mindset that they can do 
whatever they put their mind 
to," said Gerbeth, a di~tance · 
freestyle and individual medley 
swimmer. "They also need to 
have confidence in them­
selves." 
Saint Mary's has a young 
team, including only one sen­
ior. Of the six swimmers who 
have won individual events 
this year, four are freshmen. 
"On Saturday, I'm looking forward to a young team com­ing together to support one another to put the pieces together for a dual meet victo­ry," Dombkowski said. The team has had some suc­cess this season. The 200­meter freestyle relay team, composed of Gerbeth, junior Kelly Tighe and freshmen Lindsey Nelis and Sara Niemann, placed first against Hope. The Belles took that same event the next day against Carthage, this time with Gerbeth, Nelis, freshmen Meredith Lierz and junior Amy Mahoney. 
Dombkowksi expects the relay to be important yet again against Rose-Hulman. 
"Both relays will be crucial," he said. "Not just our top team, but our second teams as well." 
Gerbeth placed first in the 500-meter freestyle against . Olivet and in the 1000-meter freestyle against Carthage. Tighe, Nelis and freshmen Katie Ferguson and Katie Carroll have all won races for the Belles. 
To Gerbeth, however, "the meet still comes down to the right mindset. 
"I've prepared by practicing hard, lifting and being posi­tive," she said. "If you are not positive about swimming fast then you might as well not even get in the water." 
.. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

...--------------------------------:----------------------------­
Friday, November 10, 2006 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles continue postseason 
Gray leads Saint Mary's into D-Ill Tournament Series this weekend 
By BECKI DORNER Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's starts its final run of the season this weekend as it begins the first part of the NCAA Division Ill Tournament Series at Hanover College. The Belles enter the Great Lakes regional champi­

'--onship after a two-week break following the MIAA Conference Championship, a meet that pro­duced a fifth-place finish behind first-place Calvin College. At the MIAA meet, Megan Gray posted the best ever individual fmish by a Belle. Gray's time of 23:44 on the 6K course earned her sixth place and a spot on the first-team MIAA. Her performance was record-breaking -since the 1998 season when Saint Mary's cross country first joined the 
first five runners to cross the fin­ish line and had three others in the top 10. Senior Camille Medema won the individual crown, posting a time of 22:58.6. Case-Western, champions of the University Athletic Ac;sociation, is ranked ninth in the country in the latest USTFCCCA poll. 
The Belles hope to work togeth­er in packs, especially with such a large field of runners. 
The course is known as a fast one and is very flat, coach Jackie Bauters said last week. The course record is 20:00.2, set by Wartburg College's Missy Buttry in the 2003 national champi­onship. Banters could not be reached this week, as she was out of town participating in a race. 
Contact Becki Dorner at rdorner1@nd.edu 


MIM, no Belle has ever fmished 
in the top 1 0 at the conference 
contest. 
The Belles will need top per­formances from Gray and all of the women competing, for they will be dealing with some of the best competition in the entire nation. Two of the top-1 0 teams in the country will battle the women's six-kilometer regional championship. 
The field of more than 30 squads features three teams ranked in the top 35 spots in the 
U.S. Track & Field and Cross Country Coaches Association (USTFCCCA) poll. Calvin College (Mich.) and Case-Western Reserve University {Ohio) enter the meet ranked among the nation's top teams. 
Calvin, ranked seventh overall, swept the MIAA finale with a 15­point effort. The Knights had the 
2007-2008 

RESIDENT ASSISTANT 
APPLICATIONS 
will be available in the 
Office ofStudent Affairs 
316 Main Building 
beginning 

Monday, November 13,2006 
through 
Friday, January 19, 2007 
that had offered Little scholar­ships.
Football 
Benn, a 6-foot-2, 205-pound 
continued from page 24 wide out from Washington, ------------D.C. (Dunbar High School), had Little as a wide receiver offers from Florida State, 
because he expressed a desire Maryland, USC and Miami, to play the position in college. among others. Frank com­But as Little's body develops, pared Benn to Irish senior Frank said, Notre Dame could Rhema McKnight. use him anywhere from tight "Benn's more of a complete end to linebacker or strong receiver because he's played safety. receiver forever," Frank said. 
"When  you  "He's got very good  
watch him  on  hands, he's pretty  
film, he looks a  elusive [and] he's  
lot like [Dallas  "'[Little] has got  got good speed."  
Cowboys' wide receiver] Terrell  good feet. good acceleration and  Frank said Notre Dame was "banking on" getting Benn  
Owens," Frank  he can really  because he had told  
said. "He cer­ play.,  the Irish he would  
tainly doesn't  come to Notre Dame  
have excellent  but later changed  
hands at this  Mike Frank  his mind.  
point ­ proba­ lrisheyes.com  "Sometimes play­ 
bly [because he  ers  feel like  they  
is still] learning  belong  or  they  
to  become  a  don't," Frank said.  

receiver -[but] he's got lots "I guess it didn't really seem and lots and lots of potential." like it was a good fit for him." 
North Carolina, Florida, Michigan, Ohio State and USC Contact Ken Fowler at were among a host of schools kfowler@nd.edu 
Now leasingquality houses 
close to campus for the 2007/8 and 2008/9 school years. 
Call Bill at Anlan Properties 
574-532-1 896 


SPRING BREAK 
INFORMATION 
800-488-8828 
www.sandpiperbeacon.com 
fREE SPRING BREAK MoDEL SEARCH CALENDAR* 
"VALID FOR FIRST I000 RESERYMIONS.


., 
' 1:( (  
~ 
llll,_ a____lllllii.;......._____.................._  ....?..........., ....--­..--··lliio.s_____.............----·-·..-·_ .....,_........._...........--..................-...--·--··...·....e"o-.....-.....)e-----~~---~....o.-.t......__ -·"""''""""""""',;,;,.;...·-~=~~.-:..;,.------.._  .~-­-, ...-...-..iL.::.-~£i..;.  -<---',-·-·-ct?:-r·-'---~x!tttc("$)=+::~,...~.,-:,._  nw--­ ..............____~  -·­ ...........  


Friday, November 10, 2006 
page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Notre Dame runs for NCAA Tournament bid 

Irish prepare to face regional competition this weekend in Ohio 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
After a long season, Notre Dame is one good race away from its ultimate goal -the NCAA Tournament. 
The Irish will run Saturday against teams from across the Midwest in the NCAA Great Lakes regional in Bowling Green, Ohio. 
The No. 18 men's team is ready to rebound from a tough third place finish Oct. 27 in the Big East championship against their regional competition. The team's goal is to finish no lower than second, which would guar­antee it a spot in the NCAA Tournament Nov. 20. 
"We don't want to leave any­thing to chance so our goal is second or better," sophomore Patrick Smyth said. "I don't think there's any reason we can't get that." 

Despite Notre Dame's confi­dence, the Irish will face tough competition Saturday. The field in the Great Lakes region fea­tures five top-30 teams including the Irish, No. 1 Wisconsin, No. 11 Michigan, No. 27 Michigan State and No. 29 Butler. 
Benninger have

·7fthere·s a group
The Irish already been the main
of IS or so, we
met two of those keys for Irish suc­schools want to be in that cess this season. 
,

Michigan and The two finished
group.
Wisconsin -at the second and third Notre Dame at the Big East Invitational Sept. Patrick Smyth race and were 
29. Notre Dame's sophomore named to the all­
fourth-place finish at that event was good enough to best Wisconsin, who finished eighth. Michigan finished second. 
Even though the Irish will compete Saturday in of the toughest fields they have seen this season, coach Joe Piane has lightened the workload for his team heading into the postsea­son. 
"We've been tapering a little bit, but not a whole lot," Smyth said. "We did some thousands on the track on Tuesday, everybody did well on that. But other than that we've been getting more mentally prepared for the meet." Smyth and sen­ior Kurt 
Big East team 

along with junior Jake Watson. For this race, Notre Dame's top two runners hope to again stay at the front of the pack. 
"If there's a group of 15 or so, we want to be in that group," Smyth said. "We just want to be in the front of the pack. We're not going to work too hard at all; we're going to save as much as possible for nationals." 
The women's team is also pre­pared for postseason play, riding the momentum of a strong third 
our
&<Getting to

place finish at the one and only conference tour­nationals is our focus," Opet said. nament two weeks "A top-two finish
one and only 

ago. would be awe­
focus.··

The Big East some. But we are result was a team just trying to beat effort, starting Julie Opet as many teams as with junior Sunni possible. We're
junior

Olding, who fin­ished sixth, and continuing with seniors Ann Mazur and Amy Kohlmeier, who finished 12th and 14th, respec­tively. 
Notre Dame coach Tim Connelly hopes the Irish carry their strong finish into the NCAA Regional. 
"We've been steadily building all season so we're hoping to fix whatever we could after the Big East and just do the little things right this week, because every­one looked awesome at the Big East," junior Julie Opet said. 
The women's field at the Great 


Open: Tues.-Sat. 1 Jam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. and Mon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering 
---------~--~.~~~-----------­
We offer: Shish Kebab. Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... Out· address: 115 Dixie Way North 
(574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 We are located in Roseland are~ near Pendle Road on 3 I 


-
Nov. 9, 10, 11 at 7:30P.M. and Nov. 12 at 2:30P.M. Little Theatre, Saint Mary's College 
For tickets, call the Saint Mary's College box office at (574) 284-4626. MoreauCenter.com 

Lakes regional also has a num­ber of top schools, including No. 3 Michigan, No. 5 Wisconsin, No. 11 Michigan State and No. 28 Butler. But the Irish are confi­dent they can succeed. 
"Getting to 
nationals is 
looking at at least a top-four fmish to get pushed in." 
To prepare for this race, Notre Dame has cut down on its prac­tices, an attempt to save some leg strength for the tough com­petition. 
"We've cut back since this is the postseason now,'' Connelly said, "not on the intensity of the training, but just how long our runs are to make sure our legs are in good condition for this race." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

page 20 Friday, November 10, 2006
The Observer+ SPORTS 
cient blockers, posting 3.41 blocks per game -the second highest average in the Big East. 
On paper, Sunday's match against West Virginia does not appear as threatening as the match against Pittsburgh. The Mountaineers (2-2 7, 1-11 Big East) have never beaten the Irish at the Joyce Center. West Virginia comes in at the bottom of the league offensively with only 11.63 kills a game and a .091 hitting percentage. 
However, the West Virginia defense is more capable of con­taining Notre Dame. The Mountaineers are led by senior libero Aurora Ebert-Santos, whose 4. 77 conference digs per game places her above Notre Dame's senior libero Danielle Herndon's 4.55 digs per game. 
"We made a lot of progress last week with two great offen­sive performances," Brown said. 
With its last two tune-ups before the Big East tourna­ment, Notre Dame hopes to keep its momentum intact on the team's Senior Day. 

' \ ~ ' ). l lt  
\ ~  
I !  I  
t \ I I~ I > ~ > ~  t'  
t > 1 ~  
~  
~  
~  
~·  
t > > > I ~  
~ y ~ i~ ~  
~  
f ~ ~ J ~ !  

Vball 
continued from page 24 
Pittsburgh hopes to upset Notre Dame and move themselves past the Irish in the postseason rankings. The Panthers (20-8, 8-4 Big East) are one of five teams other than Notre Dame {15-10, 9-3 Big East) that have already clinched a berth in the Big East tournament. 
Placement in the tournament is not the only thing fueling Notre Dame this weekend. The Irish look to avenge a five­game loss to the Panthers last fall, Notre Dame's only confer­ence blemish in the 2005 regu­lar season. 

Led by junior Diana Andreyko's 4.08 kills per game and .238 hitting percentage, Pittsburgh has a formidable offense. 
"Pittsburgh has very good outside hitters," Brown said. "We're going to need to slow them down and hold them to low hitting percentages." 
This will be an important focus for Notre Dame, which is currently fourth in the Big East in opponents' hitting percent­age. Big East teams have hit .173 against Notre Dame. Pittsburgh also has very profi-

HY PHAMffhe Observer Justine Stremick, left, and Mallorie Croal jump for a block in Notre Dame's 3-0 win over Bowling Green Aug. 26 at the Joyce Center. 
Swimming 
continued from page 24 
hold off the Spartans last year winning 122-120. Senior Ted Brown starred in that meet, win­ning the 500 and 1,000-meter freestyle races. 
Brown churned out another clutch performance in the team's most recent win over Purdue. Once again he took two races, including the 200-yard individual medley. The win, which came in the second-to-last race of the meet, gave the Irish nine points to retake the lead for good. 
This weekend the team will also need a big performance out of its two divers -sophomore Michael Bulfin and junior Sam Stoner. The two have averaged scores of 299.4 and 293.6, respectively, in their first three dives this season. 
The Panthers also have two strong sophomore divers to chal­lenge Bulfin and Stoner. Aleksandr Volovetski has won the 100-meter event in every one of Pittsburgh's meets this year and recently broke his own record with a score of 351 against St. Bonaventure Oct. 27. 
"Our diving is always critical," Welsh said. "Pitt has two divers who are both very good, and when two out of 13 events are diving it's pretty important." 
Before that matchup, Notre Dame will have to get past Michigan State this afternoon. The Spartans lost to the Iowa Hawkeyes in their first meet of the season. The team got off to a quick start when Adam Schmitt, Sho Koba and Jason Vadney took the top three spots in the 200­yard freestyle. 
However, Iowa gained ground by taking the top two diving spots and held on for the victory. 
"We want to be faster than we were against Purdue, but we're not going into this weekend with any expectations other than rac­ing very well." Welsh said. 
Welsh continues to keep his team focused on its ultimate goal -winning its third straight Big East championship and compet­ing well at the NCAA Tournament. Despite the busy weekend, the Irish have contin­ued to train intensely to stay on schedule for the postseason meets in February. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
• Clear Coat
OFF
OUR 
• PremtiJm Soft Cloth Wash 
• Pofl~<;tl-n-Sea!er 
Wax Appiied 
• 2-Step Umiert}ody
BEST
~ JIIIIIIH'IIII Protectant 
52694 State Road 933 South Bend. Indiana 413637
• Spot-Free 
Rinse Jusl2 miles north of Notre Dame on U.S. 31
WASH 



Write Sports. Call Ken. 631-4543. 



Friday, November 10, 2006 page 21
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
\ 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, NOVEMBER 12-14, 2006 
Sunday, November 12 (Football Stadium Press Box) 
-Keynote Speaker: Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, Chairman, Anglo American PLC, London, Chairman of the United Nations Global Compact Foundation 
"'Due to limitations on space, this lecture is not open to the public but a DVD is available. Contact Deb Coch at <Coch.1 @nd.edu> <mailto:Coch.1 @nd.edu> 
Monday, November 13 

9:00 am -Opening Plenary: Overview of the Issues, Auditorium, CCE 
• 
Business: Klaus Leisinger, President and CEO, Novartis Foundation for Sustainable Development Stretching the Limits of Corporate Responsibility 

• 
NGO: Mary Anderson, Executive Director, CDA Collaborative Learning Projects False Promises and Premises? The Challenge of Peacebuilding for Corporations 

• 
Academic: Timothy Fort, The Lindner-Gamba! Professor of Business Ethics, The George Washington University School of Business Moral Maturity, Peace Through Commerce, 


and the Partnership Dimension 

10:30 am ·• CONCURRENT SESSIONS 
I. Local Entrepreneurship, Room 100, CCE 
• 
Francisco llunga de Almeida and Ofelia Eugenio, Angola Enterprise Program. They will discuss a public-private partnership between the UNDP (the United Nations Development Program), the Chevron Corporation and the government of Angola. Public-Private Partnership for Enterprise Development: The Case of the Angola Enterprise Program 

• 
Bruce McNamer, President, TechnoServe Leveraging Public-Private Partnerships to Create Hope and Economic Activity in the Developing World: Cases from Tanzania 

• 
John Bee, Director, Public Affairs, Nestle, S.A. and Professor Lisa Newton, Fairfield University. They will discuss projects with a Colombian Dairy, Pakistani Female Extension Workers, and the Nigerian broadcast sponsorship partnership with the NGO Search for Common Ground that provides a conflict-resolving role modeling for Nigerians. Using the Food Chain to Create Peace 

II. Divesting or Investing in Peace, Auditorium, CCE 

• 
David Lowry, Director, International Center for Corporate Accountability. (Retired from Freeport McMoran). He will speak from his experience in Papua New Guinea. Extractives, Economic Development, Codes of Conduct and Audits: Creating Peace through Carefully Thought-out Commerce 

• 
Christian Roy, Extractive Industries Initiative (Ell), PACT Congo. Pact is an NGO dedicated to forging linkages among government, business and citizen sectors to achieve social, economic and environmental justice. The Democratic Republic of the Congo's Extractive Industries' Alliance: Can Responsible Mining Promote Sustainable Social Development and Better Governance in a Fragile State? 

• 
Alexandra Guaqueta, and Luis F. de Angulo, Fundaci6n Ideas para Ia Paz. Introducing a Conflict-sensitive Risk and Impact Assessments Tool to Extractive Industry Companies: Experiences from Colombia. Cases of Occidental Petroleum and BP 

• 
lan Gary, Policy Advisor for Extractive Industries, Oxfam America. He will address corruption and transparency in the extractive Industries. Multistakeholder Efforts in the Extractive Industries 


1:00 pm -Remarks: (Lower Level Dining Room, CCE) Christian Much, German Foreign Ministry, Head of Task Force Global Issues, Berlin Investing in Per.~ce 
UNIV.E.RSI.l'YOF 
NOTRE DAM~ 



MF.ND07..A 

THIGLOit\L 

COLl.F.C.E Of' HUSINt:SS 

2:00 pm -CONCURRENT SESSIONS: Ill. The Role of Business in Societies with Conflict, Auditorium, CCE 
• 
Dona! O'Neill, Lansdowne Consulting (Retired from Shell Oil) Impact Assessment, Transparency and Accountability-Three Keys to Building Sustainable Partnership between Business and its Stakeholders 

• 
Patricia Wright, Vice President of External Affairs, BP 

• 
Daniel Saurez, Peace Group of Bogota Business Leader's Forum Colombia The Role of Local Businesses in Peacebuilding: The Case of the Colombia Business 

Leaders Peace Group 

• 
Brigitte Scherrer, Project Manager, Business Humanitarium Forum Producing Generic Medicines in Afghanistan: Opportunities and Challenges of a Multi-stakeholder Partnership 

IV. Community Relations, Room 100, CCE 

• 
Ed Potter, Director, Global Labor Relations and Workplace Accountability, The Coca-Cola Company The Evolution of Labor Relations and Workplace Practices as part of Corporate Social Responsibility -the case of The Coca-Cola Company 

• 
Stanley Litow, Vice President, Corporate Community Relations and President, IBM International Foundation. Technology Innovation to Address Global Social and Education Issues 

• 
Helen Macdonald, Director, Community Relations and Social Development, Newmont 


Mining Corporation Human Rights and Conflict Management in Newmont: A Systems Approach t~ Implementing Human Rights 
4:00 pm • CONCURRENT SESSIONS: 
V. Peace Through Health: Some Contributions, Room 100, CCE 
• 
Tom Costa, Vice President, International Policy and Government Affairs, Bristol-Myers Squibb "Secure the Future": Bristol-Myers Squibb's Response to the HIV/AIDS Pandemic in Africa 

• 
Mark Holloway, Manager Corporate Outreach, Global Business Coalition on 

HIV/AIDS Partnership with Unilever and Virgin Airlines for the Treatment and Care of HIV/AIDS 

• 
Dr. Daniel Shungu, Executive Director, United Front Against Riverblindness(UFAR) Partnerships to Combat Riverblindness in the Democratic Republic of the Congo 

VI. Outreach Programs, Auditorium, CCE 

• 
Ford Motor Co., Gerald F. Cavanagh, S.J. and Mary Ann Hazen, Professors at University of Detroit Mercy. Ford Motor Company, Human Rights and Environmental Integrity 

• 
General Electric, Bob Corcoran, Vice President, Corporate Citizenship The Millennium Village Project: General Electric's Contribution 

• 
Daniel Ma!an , KPMG Sustainability Services, South Africa From Being Apart to Being Partners -a South African Case Study of Barloworld 

• 
David Wheeler, Dean of Management, Dalhousie University. He will discuss enterprise development in Darfur and Southern Sudan using a participative action research approach. Conflict Transformation Project: Promoting Sustainable Livelihoods and Grassroots Enterprise Development 


8:00pm -AACSB Panel: Peace Through Commerce: Business Education Initiatives Chair: Georg Kell, Executive Head of the Global Compact Office, United Nations (Mendoza College of Business Atrium) 
• 
John Fernandes, President and Chief Executive Officer, AACSB 

• 
Jennifer Potter, Managing Director, Initiative for Global Development 

• 
Tim Solso, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Cummins, Inc. 


(!) 
The Joan B. Kroc Institute 
FOR nJTERNAT10NAL PEAC£ $TUf.'lll£$ 


'---~'-----·--'-" -··~-~~------------........:.....1 --~---~ -----~-·~----· -~-­
Friday, November 10, 2006 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
Moffet 
continued from page 24 
things people can do when we're running." 
Along with this new look offense will be a stingy Irish defense that shut down its two preseason opponents, limiting them to 28 percent shooting from the floor and forcing 6 7 turnovers. That swarming defense helped the Irish domi­nate those first two opponents -outscoring them by an aver­age of 82-45. 
Despite her team's perform­ance in the preseason, McGraw is still wary of a Central Michigan threat. 
"They do a lot of different things offensively, a lot of motion," McGraw said. "We're really working on our defense." 
Challenging the Irish defense will be Central Michigan's long­range offense. The Chippewas are shorter than the Irish. Their tallest player is 6-foot-2 senior forward Ann Skufka, whose specialty is shooting from beyond the arc. This three-point offense will test the athleticism of Notre Dame's two centers, Williamson and senior Melissa D'Amico. 
"Their big guys can shoot 
threes, can play away from the basket, so I think defensively it is going to be a big challenge for our post to be able to han­dle a three-point shooter and someone who likes to put the ball on the floor," McGraw said. "We're better against a post-up player, where we can use our size. So I think they're going to have a tough time guarding them." 
This game will also be the regular season debut of Notre Dame's three talented fresh­men, Williamson and guards Melissa Lechlitner and Ashley Barlow. 
Williamson filled in well for D'Amico in Notre Dame's two exhibition games. Lechlitner and Barlow also have logged significant minutes running the point this season, enabling McGraw to operate an efficient four-guard set. 
Now the Irish are ready for the games that matter. 
"I think as a team we're pret­ty prepared. We've been work­ing ever since summer start­ed," Williamson said. "We've been working hard, going through all of our offenses and everything. I think we're just most of all excited to get start-
d .. 
e . 
Contact Jay Fitpatrick at jfitzpa@nd.edu 
Brey 
continued from page 24 

all five starters, will try to take advantage of the young Irish ros­ter and pull the upset it barely missed last year. 
"This is a really good team coming in here and they think they can beat us," Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said. 
McAlarney said the team is focusing exclusively on IPFW and not looking ahead to the presea­son NIT, which the Iri'ih will begin on Monday against Butler in Indianapolis. 
"We need to take every team we play as seriously as possible," he said. 
The Irish showcased their new up-tempo style in their two pre­season games -a 79-44 win over Rockhurst Nov. 1 and an 85­57 win over Bellarmine Monday. In both games, Notre Dame employed a full court press early and often and -even in its half­court defense -pressured the point guard one-on-one for most ofthe floor. 
McAlarney, along with fresh­man guard Tory Jackson, will draw the duty of hounding Mastodon point guard Brad Pompey, who scored 10 points and dished out four assists against the Irish last year. 
"I think we're going to pressure the ball as much as we can from start to finish," McAlarney said. "We're going to try to create some havoc." 
But Brey admits that won't be easy against the veteran Mastodons, "a very polished offensive team." 
He hopes the run-and-gun style will bring more fans to the Joyce Center, especially for a team like IPFW that is more dangerous than its name suggests. The two exhibition games drew less than half capacity. 
"For people who haven't seen this team yet, they should come out and watch us, because we're fun to watch," Brey said. "There are some neat things going on with our young guys and we have an exciting style of play." 
Guards Russell Carter and Colin Falls will begin their senior cam­paigns tonight looking for their first career NCAA tournament berth. Carter, one of the team's most athletic players, averaged 
11.5 points and 5.1 rebounds last year. 
Falls, a deadly spot up shooter, averaged 14.8 points per game last season and shot almost 40 percent from behind the three­point arc. 
Tonight's game will also mark the official collegiate debut of five Notre Dame freshmen ­Jackson, guards Joe Harden and Jonathan Peoples and forwards Luke Harangody and Tim Andree. 
Jackson spelled McAlarney at point guard in the two exhibition games and is expected to replay that role tonight. Harangody, who averaged 13 points and seven rebounds in the two exhibition games, will come ofT the bench for starting big men sophomore Luke Zeller and junior Rob Kurz. 
Notes: 
+ 
Kurz, who suffered a broken nose in practice after a collision with Harangody, missed Monday's · win over Bellarmine. He returned to practice Wednesday and is expected to play tonight with a protective mask on his face. 

+ 
The team has not chosen captains yet and will not until later in the season. Brey said this is already the latest he has ever gone into a season without having his squad vote for captains. 


"I want this group to be togeth­er longer, then we'll vote," he said. "We may vote after the NIT and we might vote at Christmas." 
But even without captains, Brey said the Irish are not without leaders. 
"Russell Carter, Colin Falls, and Kurz are our leaders," he said. "There's no question about that." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


FRI, NovEMBER 10TH vs.@ 7:30PM SAT, NovEMBER 11TH vs.@ 7:00PM 
PICK UP YOUR HOCKEY STUDENT SECTION ­T--sHIRT oN FRIDAY! alleg~~~pt 

----~--------------------•--------~----------------------------------------o~c-~--~~·~--~-------~~·~~.·~·------···:c~~-~--,~~·~~;~~~~--~-··-r-~-~~z.-.-•s~--~·-·..nnae~t~t~'-'-a~eII 


Friday, November 10, 2006 
page 23 
The Observer+ TODAY 

-----------------------------------~-------------------------------------­
JOCULAR ALEC WHITE 

l 
C::tuE.SS WE.
'lEA\-\, so \ &ue:.ss 
WE cANT-~E..T 
'"J"uS\ HAN <::r 
(HE. ClAM\:. oN 
AttOUr-Jt>... 
-·­
"THE. .\V "IHlS 
NO\ Wpr\\Gr\ 
-ri-\E.. (l,t..t-\E...
wee.~Et-lt>. 
'jEP..H \ C:HAE..S5 'NE CAN -:>us-r NOr wA."TC.H -n-\E. C:tAME.. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARC IRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
I had so The water 
to form four ordinary words. 
much fun was refreshing 

-
IMDEG 
[ J 
I 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
YINSH 
j
I I [ [] ISWUNE± 

.• 
www.jumble.com 

HOW THE: FAMILY'S DAY AT THE: BE:AC.H TURNE:D OUT. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

·""""' 
Answer:"( I I I I I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: ADAGE HAZEL JAGGED SLOUCH Yesterday's Answer: 
What the doctor considered the mind reader who fell on the ice-A "HEAD" CASE 
CROSSWORD 

WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 31 Thea. Roosevelt 61 Site of a 1992 1 78th Academy Natl. Park locale AI Qaeda attack Awards host 33 Admirer, and 62 Security alert 11 Slugger known then some 64 Zest as the Big Cat 37 "Any man who 65 Conversation wants to be closer
15 Honolulu Harbor 
president is 

landmark 66 Suffix with 
either an or

16 "May It Be" leather
crazy": Dwight 

singer, 2002 67 Mae West, for
Eisenhower 

17 Modern loading one 
39 Two-sided 
site 
42 Comanche

18 Haagen-_ DOWN
relative 

1 State capital on
19 Retail chain 
46 Fictional town in 

the Pearl River
started near 
a 1945 Pulitzer­

Detroit in 1962 2 Alternative to
winning novel 20 A person might war
47 Maze 

drop one while 3 Rouyn-_,
49 Place to take

dieting Quebec
stock? 

22 Certain giftwrap 4 Cheat, in a way
50 N.H.L. star

design 5 Percussion 
nicknamed St. 

instrument
24 "Bridal Chorus" 
Patrick 

bride 6 Sched. info
51 Pacer and 25 Bad: Prefix 7 Promise 
Rambler 8 "Bird on " 
26 It's like -like 55 Raiders 27 Gen. (activist group) 9 Cut loose 57 It has a place in 10 Bit of salon Puzzle by David Quarfoot
29 Byzantine 
waste
emperor called "herstory" 38 [Not more 44 Rescuer of 54 Nasal spray ''the Wise" 60 Etoile's field 11 Pharmacy homework!] Andromeda, in brand stock, for short 
39 Shakers and myth 56 Classic fantasy 
12 Helping
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 45 Wedges game, informally
tongs, e.g.

13 Destructive 
48 A villain might 58 'The
40 Red Skelton

tropical 
come to one Neverending
musical comedy

American weevil 
52 Platform Story" author 14 Starts gently 41 It can make you Michael
introduced in square
21 Dip choice 1981 59 Evil "Star Trek" 23 Cousin of a clog 43 Like some 53 Relative of a group, with "the" 28 First name in pumps rose apple 63 Eastern path psychedelic rock 30 Fix firmly 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 32 New Jersey's credit card, 1-800-814-5554. _ University Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 34 Something crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. graded between Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
E and F? 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young
~.,.,...,~,-~ 35 Bother, with "at" 
solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords . 
......_...._--~ 36 German article 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable· to: The Observer ­and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Sisqo, 28; Nick Lachey, 33; Chris Jericho, 36; Lou Ferrigno, 55 ,;,;. 
Happy Birthday: This can be your best year yet if you pull together everything you have worked on so diligently throughout your life. Now is not the time to step back and let someone else take the lead. It's your tum to take what you want without feeling guilty. Your intensity will make others take note. Your numbers are 8, II, 20, 26. 27, 39 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): If you work hard today, you can accomplish great things. Don't let your emotions stand in the way. Uncertainty regarding a financial deal should be enough of a warning to take a pass. 2 stars 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Taking part in a fund raising event or something of a serious nature will lead to a partnership with someone who has as much to offer as you do. You will be able to make some interesting changes where friendships are concerned. 4 stars 

-
GEMINI (May 21-.Ju!!le 20): An action packed day can be expected. Emotional matters 
will surface, making it easier to deal with such issues. Solutions can be found if you arc 
willing to try something a little different. 3 stars 
CANCER {june 21-July 22): Whether you travel physically, mentally or down the information highway doesn't much matter. It's the information you receive and the people you meet along the way that will count. A social or networking event will be well worth your time. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Keep things to yourself ifyou don't want to be ridiculed or blamed for the way things tum out. You will face problems if you try to push your own way. Focus on how you can make your home more comfortable, convenient and user friendly. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can't go wrong today. Your ability to deal with any situation you face will be your guide to success. Emotional matters can be resolved and talks will get you what you want. Love. partnerships and positive changes to your personal life can be expected. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): If you beccme emotional or let your guard down, you will lose out. Stick to your game plan and finish what you start. This is not the day to let other people upset your world. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Tum on your Scorpio charm and you will get whatever you want. Change will occur that will lighten your load and rid you of the people and things no longer important to you. A love connection will broaden your awareness and ignite your passion. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't get mystified by someone who appears to be more experienced. Listen, observe and take notes, but hold your own. This is not the time to appear confused or uncertain ahout your life or your direction. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will make everyone stand up and take note. Love and romance are in a high cycle so don't waste it working. Spend time with someone who rocks your world. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You could easily put yourself in a precarious position regarding a problem with a youngster in your life. Don't expect everyone to be honest with you. Ask questions and look beyond what is being said. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Gifts, winnings or paybacks can all be expected. A change will tum out better than you anticipated. You should be able to make a commitment or plans for the future. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You have a way of getting to the bottom of things and turning any wrong into a right. You are just, hardworking and can play the role of a peacemaker. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultatioi!S 


THE OBSERVER 
p

Friday, November 10, 2006 

page 24 
NO BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame tips off against Mastodons 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
After conditioning all summer, 
trying to gel as a team during fall practice and winning two easy exhibition games, Notre Dame .finally plays for real tonight against Indiana-Purdue Fort 
Wayne at 8 at the Joyce Center. 
"This is the real deal," Irish 
point guard Kyle McAlarney said. 
"It's not an exhibition anymore. 
We have to be ready." 
Without point guard Chris 
Quinn, the Irish beat the 
Mastodons last year 65-63 in Fort 
Wayne -a surprisingly close 
score given the supposed talent 
gap between the two teams. 
This year, IPFW, which returns 
see BREY/page 22 

Show time 

PHIL HUDELSON AND ALLISON AMBROSE!The Observer left, Irish guard Kyle McAiamey drives to the hoop in Notre Dame's 85-57 win over Bellarrnine Monday at the Joyce Center. Right, guard Tulyah Gaines dribbles in NO's 82-35 home win over Northwood Nov. 5. 
McGraw eager to see offense in live action 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will tip off against Central Michigan in each team's regular season opener today at 4 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
The Irish defeated Northwood University 82-35 Nov. 5, but Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw still hopes to see offensive improvement -a theme stressed throughout the preseason. 
"I think we're looking at some new stuff offensively and seeing how [it works] out, see­ing how different people come in," freshman center Erica Williamson said. "Just small 
see MUFFET/page 22 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Little commitment big addition for Irish recruiting class 
Illinois. senior at Hillside High School Irisheyes.com. "The kid just flat "He's a very good runningBy KEN FOWLER At a press conference (Durham, N.C.) who has played can run. You just don't see guys back," Frank said. "I wouldn't 
Sports Editor 

announcing his inclusion in this running back, wide receiver and that size run ... as well as he be surprised to see (Jrish coach] year's Army All-American game, linebacker the past two seasons. does." Charlie lWois) use him in that 
As expected, Notre Dame went Little said he would become the His 40-yard dash time is listed at As a junior, Little averaged role.... The guy has got good 1-for-2 in the recruiting war 11th Irish verbal commitment 4.50. 7.29 yards per carry while gain­feet, good acceleration and he Thursday, winning the battle for for the class of 2011. Players "lie brings a tremendous ing 1,166 yards on the ground. can really play." the versatile Greg Little but los­cannot sign binding letters of amount of athleticism to Notre He also had 23 receptions for Frank said schools recruited ing the contest for No. 1 receiver intent until February. Dame's team," said Mike Frank, 375 yards and four interceptions prospect Arrelious Benn to Little is a 6-foot-3, 205-pound who covers recruiting for on defense. see LITTLE/page 18 

ND SWIMMING 


Purdue, Michigan St. retur11 to South Bend 
Boilers, Spartans pose early season challenge 

'I 
•i, 

By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
No. 17 Notre Dame looks to stay unbeaten this weekend with back-to-hack home meets against Michigan State (0-1) on Friday and Big East power Pittsburgh (3-0) at Rolfs Aquatic Center Saturday. 
The Irish are coming off a thrilling victory last weekend over Purdue. The No. 16 Boilermakers were in good posi­

'. 
'. 
,, 
NO CROSS COUNTRY 
> . )_' Great Lakes 
p 
Regionals 

i -~ 

Saturday 
Irish men, women race with NCAA berth on the line. 
page 19 
tion until the '1inal race, when Notre Dame captured the 400­yard freestyle relay to hold off the surging Purdue squad and move to 2-0 in dual-meet action this season. 
"We've had two very exciting wins so far. Both of them have gone down to the wire," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. 
This weekend's opponents are no strangers to drama, either. Pittsburgh has lost its last two trips to Notre Dame by a total of 11 points -155-145 in 2004 and 122-121 last season. The Irish also needed final race heroics to 
see VBALL/page 20 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Great Lakes Regionals 
Saturday 
Belles compete in first leg of Division III Tournament. 
page 18 NO VOLLEYBALL 

ND hosts Pittsburgh, UVA 
By DEVIN PRESTON Sports Writer 

Notre Dame hosts its final two matches of the regular season at the Joyce Center this weekend, looking to end with one more pair of wins. 
The Irish take on confer­ence rival Pittsburgh at 2 
p.m. Saturday and West Virginia at 2 p.m. Sunday, Notre Dame looks to close its season out with one more pair of wins. 
"Going into the Big East tournament, we want to fin­ish strong at home and keep that third seed," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. HY PHAM!The Observer 
Junior Ashley Tarutls, right, sets up junior Adrianna Stasiuk in Notre .see SWIMMING/page 20 Dame's 3-0 win over Bowling Green Aug. 28 at the Joyce Center. 

SMC SWIMMING 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
NHL

NCAA FOOTBALL 
Penn State coach Joe 
Toronto 6
Louisville 25
Saint Mar)'s at 

Paterno will not coach 
Boston 4 
Rutgers 28
Rose Hulman 

Saturday due to the 
Toronto goalie
Rutgers kicker Jeremy 

injury he sustained last 
Andrew Raycraft
Ito kicks a game
Saturday 

weekend. 
records 28 saves to shut
winning field goal in
Winless Belles look for 
down his old team.
the final minute of the
their first win of the 
Knights upset win.
year in the dual meet. 

page 14
page 17 
page 15
page 17 






Revamped No. 9 Notre Dame hosts Bowling Green 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 10, 2006 
College hockey crowds without equal 
There's just something about a college hockey game that can't be replicated anywhere in sport. 
It's the stu­
dent sections, bands, chants and traditions that all blend together within the walls of some venerable old 

barn on cam-Kyle Cassily pus. It's how all that noise Sports Writer crescendos into a fervor that is so thick around the rink that the con­crete rumbles like a 6.2 on the Richter scale, and the walls sway under the pressure. 
It is almost impossible to describe unless witnessed, but it happens every weekend at rinks across New England, Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota and beyond -just not here,·not at Notre Dame, not yet. 
In the winter of 1993, mortal rivals Maine and New Hampshire played a hyped league game -it was the year college hockey, and now NHL, great Paul Kariya led his Black Bears to a title -at UNH's now­extinct Snively Arena. 
The Snively was a rectangular box with an arched tin roof, riv­eted metal walls and rotting wooden bleachers lit by dim low-lying lamps. In short it was a dump, but a Mecca for college hockey. 
From the drop of the puck to the final buzzer, the crowd fed ofT the hell-bent energy of the teams' play. A friend turned toward me at one point, attempting to say: something, and from the red, strained faces he made, he was trying hard. Not a word made it across the foot separating us -and the game was in a timeout. 
And, unbeknownst to north­ern Indiana, that kind of energy at a hockey game is far from rare at many games today. 
But college hockey is about more than just the noise-it's about the traditions, cheers and chants that make the fans a fac-. tor in the game in a way that rivals Texas A&M's 12th Man. 

After the first New Hampshire goal of every home game, it is tradition for a bunch of UNH frat boys, or whoever gets there first, to throw a large fish onto the ice. 
The origin of the tradition is disputed. One source says that it came from the 1970s when the Division-1 Wildcats played Division-II Bowdoin from across the border in Maine. A tiny guppy called the 'Division-11 fish' would be thrown on the ice to show disapproval toward the program that had once domi­nated the Wildcats. 
But the man who has scraped the fish off the ice every night for years says that it is the fans telling the opposing goalie to fish the puck out of his net. It may be both, but either way it's an original -albeit smelly ­and legendary college hockey tradh~n. ­
At Cornell, the student section holds the campus newspaper in front of its face while the announcer introduces the other team's roster. The students then crumple the papers up and toss them on the ice when the last opposing coach is announced. 
Cornell's student body has rocked its home at Lynah Rink for decades with witty, funny and delightfully nasty cheers. But the constant with the Big Red faithful has always been its creativity and energy. 
During every singing of The Star Spangled Banner, the stu­dent body will scream out "RED" in unison when the song reaches the 'rockets red glare' stanza. Against Colgate, they will point to the Raiders' goalie after he allows a goal and yell, 'Toothpaste'· then point to their own side and yell, 'Goalie', going back and forth and get­ting faster and faster till the crowd is a mass of exploding arms. 
"Sieve" can be heard at nearly all college games -a reference towards the grated plate that miner~ used to sift through dirt to find gold -but some schools have found unique ways to tell the other team's goalie that he couldn't stop a kickball. 
In Madison, the crowd quiets and out of place in the Joyce Center rink-they don't fit the college hockey atmosphere. The T -shirts that appear all over campus making fun of that week's football opponent are testament enough to the Notre Dame student's ability to cre­atively deconstruct the enemy. 


There are a dedicated few in Section 6 that would love the chance to lead an insane stu­dent body at the games, and the band already lays down the­bass line for a solid crowd. 
A Snively, Lynah Rink or Kohl Center can be created here at Notre Dame-hell we can do better. It's just going to take a little creativity and some Irish touch. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
and a solitary Wisconsin drum­mer beats out a rhythm after the Badgers goal celebration is finished and the teams line up for the faceofT. Everyone moves 
their hands in the air in slow 
circles and at the same time screams, 'SIEVE'. 
The drummer resumes his beat and a second yell goes up before he resumes again. And the third time, the 14,000 plus in attendance at the Kohl Center explode into a string of sieves that rain down upon the oppos­ing goaltender. Only a goal­tender with steel nerves could withstand that assault fully intact -talk about home-rink advantage. 
The Badgers home crowd also jumps up and down continuous­ly through power plays, while the drumline blasts a constant beat -it is arguably one of the best college hockey crowds. 
And believe it or not, it seems that Notre Dame students aren't the only ones to loathe the Backup College. Boston University students will scream obscenities about Fredo ­when they are playing Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. 

There are countless examples across the country of passionate student sections, bands and tra­ditions. It would take a cata­logue to list them all, but there would be only a brief blurb if one was to thumb to the 'Notre Dame' tab. , 
It's time for the Irish hockey crowd to pump up and match the energy and attitude the team has shown on the ice so far this season, and that it will continue to exhibit as the pro­gram grows toward national prominence. 
It's time for Irish hockey fans to create their own traditions and chants that are for hockey and hockey alone~ Football cheers are great in Notre Dame Stadium, but they are awkward 


Irish predictions 
The Irish will stretch their unbeaten streak to eight this weekend with two wins over Bowling Green. In the first contest, the quick ND forwards will use the extra motivation of playing at home to blow by the Falcons for a big victory. Bowling Green will settle in for the second game but Dave Brown will be too much for the Falcon as he earns his eighth career shutout Saturday night. 
FINAL SCORE: ND 5, Bowling Green 2 NO 2, Bowling Green 0 
Notre Dame has beaten too many good teams by too much to even allow a tie to the Falcons. Factor in that the Irish will return home for the first time in a month and they will be unstop­pable. The Falcons will throw in a garbage goal each game, but will be stoned the rest of the time by the No. 1-rated Irish defense and goal­tending. Sciba, Condra, Van Guilder and the rest of the offensive gang will be lethal and find the net early and often. 
FINAL SCORE: NO 6, Bowling Green 1 ND 4, Bowling Green 1 

Dan Murphy 
Sports Writer 

Friday, November 10, 2006 

The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Culture change 
Jackson's massive overhaul of Irish hockey attitude has reaped large dividends before its completion 

ERIN VRANISH/The Observer 

The Irish seniors, from left to right, Dave Brown, alternate captain Tom Sawatske, alternate captain 
Wes O'Neill, Noah Babin, alternate captain Jason Paige, Michael Bartlett, captain T.J. Jindra and 
Josh Sciba pose during practice Wednesday at the Joyce Center. 
the golden hockey number of throughout the transition," Guilder said. "That's the gold 
five forward lines, eight Jackson said. "I thought he real­standard that we have to live up 
defensemen and three goalies. ly made an effort to help every­to -the level that we expect 
Sophomore Vic Oreskovich then body realize that this is a great ourselves to play at." 
left the Irish over differences opportunity, a great experience Jindra said that the 'The Gold 
and rejoined his junior team. -we're at Notre Dame, we're Standard' display and the 
But a majority of the team getting a great education and awards banquet the Irish held 
wanted to buy into the attitude that we can also do well in at the conclusion of last season 
change, even if at first they hockey, that we can make this a -which he said impressed the 
couldn't figure out how. successful environment." team -is all just another way 
"We wanted to buy in as fast Jindra leads by example and that Jackson helps his players to as we possibly could," junior will lay his body on the line see his vision. Mark Van Guilder said. "It was every game to accomplish all "The golden dome, the golden harder for some guys than oth­the little things that the team helmets -gold is the most pre­ers. ,Jt was night and day from respects, Van Guilder·said. ·He cious· metal· thatJthoFe ·tr~ •and ro• my freshman year. just the said that Jindra is not a captain me it represents excellence," coaching philosophy and every­that stands up in the locker Jackson said. "And we need to thing, the systems were com­room and gives a speech, but set that standard of excellence. pletely different. I think every­the way he plays speaks more "I want people to know that one wanted to buy in, but it was than his words. our desire is to get to that point harder for some than others to "[Jindra's] been a nice buffer where we can win a champi­adjust to the new systems." for us between coach," Van onship, that's the gold stan­
Guilder said. "They kind of dard." Buying in translate for each other -And with a 6-1-1 start this 
It was clear at the beginning Jindra to [Jackson] from the season, including a 7-1 thrash­of last season that the team team, [Jacksonl to us. He does a ing of No. 1 Boston College, the struggled tv fit into the new sys­good job of letting us know what attitude changes that were tems and attitude devised by coach expects from us and what made in the spring of 2005 are Jackson, as it was 3-8-1 after we have to do to be successful." now producing dividends. But the first two months of the sea­The team and coaching staff despite the success, there are a son. From December on, howev­will all agree that Jindra has lot of changes still to be made er, a noticeable upswing was been .instrumental in the atti­and a lot of buying in left to do. evident and the team finished tude change this season that has "I don't know if I want to say the regular season 10-11-3. created early success, but the that everybody fully sees 
The Irish had held team­Iri~h captain defers all praise to fJackson's vision]," Jindra said. building exercises at the begin­his classmates. "We haven't done anything yet, ning of the year, but it was not "This year we have eight it's still early in the season." until the second half of the sea­seniors -we could have eight Jackson said that the team is son that the team's attitude seniors and be terrible, just making remarkable strides to started to form to his expecta­cause you have eight seniors buy into his philosophy, but tions, Jackson said. doesn't mean anything -but some of what is left to do has to 
"I think they started to walk the credit goes to those guys," happen naturally. the talk as soon as they came he said. "They really stepped "Until we have every guy in back from Christmas break," he up, in my opinion. They've got­that locker room willing to said. "They had another team ten guys to follow [them)." make that physical sacrifice for building function that really each other, and I'm talking 
brought out some differences. A gold standard about physical sacrifice on the And part of building a winning A new display adorns the wall ice -that's when I know that culture is that players hold each outside the Irish locker room we have totally bought in," he other accountable." this season -and it is yet said. 
Irish captain T.J. Jindra, who another part of Jackson's vision Jackson, however, doesn't 
was named captain last year as to create an atmosphere of know how long that will take. a junior, was the first player excellence in Irish hockey. "It's hard to say. It depends on that Jackson saw had fully 'The Gold Standard' is painted how badly this group wants to bought into what he was trying high on the wall and a row of win, how badly this group wants to build with the Irish. Jackson plaques extends on both sides, to make those sacrifices to be 
said that Jindra was a mature, honoring Irish hockey greats for successful," he said. "This group team-oriented player and their achievements in the pro­has the potential, but there are showed leadership early on gram's modern era. The names no guarantees -there never .· helping his teammates adjust to of current Irish players can be is." the extra discipline, work and found on the same awards But if the Irish can fully buy willingness to pay the price to plaques as Irish great Brian into the gold standard, Jackson win. Walsh or current NHL players may have to remove the piece of 
It took several months before Rob Globke or Brett Lebda. paper from his empty frame and Jackson and Jindra were able to And 'The Gold Standard' isn't fill it with his fifth White House fully trust each other, Jackson just a phrase, it has meaning. photo -maybe on the South said, but ultimately Jackson had "That's the standard that we Lawn this time. found the right man to helm his set, the rules and goals that we team. set as a team that we have with­Contact Kyle Cassity at 
"T.J. kept the room together in our locker room," Van kcassily@nd.edu 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
There is very little in the way 
of decoration inside Notre Dame 
coach Jeff Jackson's office. 
There is the obligatory team 
photo hung behind his desk and 
a framed picture of the first 
Irish hockey team on a side 
wall. The rest of the office is 
bathed in the off-white of its 
bare walls. 
But in the front of his desk, within constant view of him and anyone that enters to speak with him, are five smaller pic­tures hung on the wall. One is off-set to the left from the others and is differently sized, while the other four sit in identical frames and are aligned in a straight, vertical line. 
The off-set picture shows then-Lake Superior State assis­tant coach Jackson shaking hands with President Ronald Reagan during a reception in the White House for the 1988 national champion Lakers. 
The top photo in the row shows that 1988 Lakers team assembled in the Oval Office with President Reagan. The one below it displays now-head coach Jackson's 1992 champion Lakers team standing in front of Air Force One with President George Bush Sr., and the third picture in the line shows the 1994 champion Lakers with President Bill Clinton in the Rose Garden. 
But there is something differ­ent about the lowest frame. There•is no picture inside• it,· only a piece of paper centered within blue matting. The paper was typed by Jackson· and is printed in gold lettering. 
It reads, 'Place Picture Here'. Then, in smaller font just below that, it continues, 'The courage to follow your dreams is the first step towards destiny'. 
"[They're] the only pictures that I've taken with me every­where, obviously I don't like liv­ing in the past," Jackson said. "I don't wear my championship rings. To me, I'm more con­cerned about the next one, than the ones that are in my safety deposit box." 
The Irish have already begun the process to take that first step. It started not long after Jackson took over in May of 2005 and is centered on what the team refers to as a complete 'culture change'. 

Attitude revamped 
Jackson took over the Irish in 
the spring of 2005 after the 
team had finished one of its 
most miserable seasons in histo­
ry -five wins and not a single 
one after Jan. 2 -and found 
that the team's attitude needed 
a drastic overhaul. 
He recognized that very few players had the confidence in themselves or the team to win, that the commitment to devote themselves physically, mentally and emotionally to hockey was not there and that the passion and fire to play the game need­ed to be drastically increase·d. 
He also noticed that many players had dramatically under­achieved in their careers at Notre Dame -something he was determined to reverse. 
"I think that a lot of players two years ago, after the poor season, had lost a little bit of their dream as far as having a chance to play hockey beyond college," Jackson said. "And that goes back to the confidence -I was trying to rebuild that belief that they could play the game after college." 
To start, Jackson established specific rules geared toward increasing team discipline and challenged the way the players lived. He said that discipline came -and still persists -in the form of early mornil'lg train­ing workouts, committing to curfews and always being on time to meetings, practices and school. 
"(I am] always focusing on making sure they understand there are a set of standards you have to live by in order to be successful," he said. "One of them is my priority that they're on time, they're ready and that they do what's right as far as the way they live." 
In addition to the drastic change, Jackson was forced to cut two players who had been on the team the previous season and a scholarship freshman to reduce the team to 26 players ­
ERIN VRANISHITHE OBSERVER 


The Irish stretch after practice Wednesday. Every Notre Dame practice jersey has No. 7 on the back-the tean won't (hUge Its meanilg. 
-· 
page 4

Friday, November 10, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Freshmen battle to replicate Condra's impact 
Eight rookies have made timely, important contributions this season on both sides of the puck for the No. 9 Irish 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Sophomore center Erik Condra ran away with last year's Irish rookie of the year award by leading all players with 34 points, but this year's competition should be a little stiffer. 
This year's freshman class is stocked with talent and the eight rookies in· the class are wasting no time in proving themselves. The group has been responsible for 11 of Notre Dame's first 24 goals this season. Three have seen the ice in all eight of the Irish games this season and two more have played in four games. _ 
Conrda's two linemates ­Kevin Deeth and Ryan Thang, both freshmen-have been a big part of the team's early success. 
"They're both talented, smart players, so it's easy to play with guys like that," Condra said. "They've come and made an impact right away." 
Deeth is currently second on the team in goals (four) and points (eight). The Washington state native is undersized at 5-foot-7, 161 pounds, but he makes up for it with his speed and play­making ability. He spent one year playing for the Green Bay Gamblers before coming to Notre Dame this summer. 
He finished that"· season 12th in the ·united:·states Hoc·~ey League (USHL} in points and 22nd in goals scored. Thang also spent time in the USHL, with the Sioux City 
Stampede and the Omaha Lancers. Last season the power forward split time 
between the clubs and fin­ished with 54 points and a plus/minus ratio of +34. 
"A lot of us played against each other last year -had some good battles with one another -so we were pretty familiar with each other and it's worked out well," Deeth said. 
Both players had breakout games in the win over then­No. 1 Boston College. Deeth had two of the team's seven goals and his fellow winger added a goal and two assists. 
The following night, fresh­man Dan Kissel got a taste of the action when he regis­tered his first college goals with a hat trick in a 6-1 win over Providence. The rookie became the first Irish fresh­man to complete the feat since Chad Chipchase scored three times against Ferris State on Nov. 22, 1997. 
Kissel, who was not heavily recruited out of high school, was a late signing for Jackson. He came on strong in the first four games of the year but hasn't played since due to an injury. 
"He had a lot of jump in his stride, was skating hard and then boom he was gone," Jackson said. "He teased us a little bit." 
The team expects Kissel to be ready for action this weekend against Bowling Green. 
The Irish defensive unit also features two freshmen who join ir ·stro~g veteran group on the blue line. Kyle Lawson, the youngest mem­ber of Notre Dame's defen­sive squad, signed with the team in the spring of 2004. From his position at the point, Lawson has assisted on two goals and gotten off six 
shots while playing regularly in every game this season. 
Although he is a rookie, .Lawson played for the highly touted Honeybaked AAA pro­gram and the U.S. Under-18 National Team two seasons ago, gaining valuable experi­
-ence at an elite level. The Under-18s won a gold medal in the Czech Republic with Lawson as their alternate captain. Brett Blatchford, who has appeared in four games thus far, has added two assists in his freshman campaign. Blatchford also brings lead­ership experience, as he cap-


tained the NAHL's Texas Tornado for two seasons and in 2005-06 led the league's defensemen in scoring with 49 points. 
"I've got nothing but good things to say about [the freshmen]," captain T.J. Jindra said. "Not just because how they've played on the ice, but also how they've done when we are off the ice." 
Goaltender Tom O'Brien, defenseman Stewart Collins and winger Christiaan Minella round out the class. 
The group's speed and enthusiasm has added a lot of depth to the Irish lineup and has also provided a spark on the offensive side that has the team scoring almost four goals a game. 
As for who will take this season's rookie of the year, there is still a lot to be decid­ed, and the reigning winner is not quite ready to let aB¥., freshman take over his spot. 
"There [are] a couple guys that are up, they've got a big competition for it this year so it should be interesting." Condra said. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

Red-hot icers return home after poll-topping road trip 
By DAN MURPHY / Sports Writer 
Home, sweet home. 
It has been almost a month since Notre Dame beat Minnesota State-Mankato 6-1 Oct. 12 in its only home game so far this season. The No. 9 Irish 

/ return to the Joyce Center tonight to take on Bowling Green in the start of a two­game CCHA series. The Falcons (3-4-1} enter the contest fresh off their first CCHA victory-a 4-2 win over Lake Superior State -after dropping their first three conference games. Notre Dame will look to stay unbeaten in conference play after a win and a tie last weekend at Ohio State. "It's always nice to play in front of your own fans, and after being on the road for so long it will be a nice little break for us," Irish captain T.J. Jindra said. The team has gone 5-1-1 since the Mankato game, knock­ing off No. 1 Boston College in Chestnut Hill and taking home the Lightning College Hockey Classic against Air Force and Army in the interim. The key to Notre Dame's suc­cess on the road has been its stingy defensive play, led by senior goaltender Dave Brown. Brown was recently named the CCIIA Goaltender of the Week for the second time in the young 
season, after stopping 46 of 49 shots in the two-game series with Ohio State. Brown first received the honor Oct. 23 after holding Hockey East opponents Boston College and Providence to one goal apiece. 
"He makes the saves he needs to make and then makes some great saves when we break down," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "He's been our backbone." 
Brown credited his success to a sharpened mental focus and preparation, as well as good communication with the defense. 
The Irish blue-liners are cur­rently allowing only 1.12 goals per game, which ranks them first among all Division-! teams. The team is giving up just over 23 shots a game this year, com­pared to 28.9 in the 2005-06 season. 
That dominance has carried over to the penalty killers, who have allowed only four goals in 44 opportunities -again a major improvement from last season. 
The Bowling Green power play has struggled so far this season, converting less than 10 percent of the time. 
Junior Derek Whitmore. who leads the Falcons with seven goals, has one of the team's four man-advantage goals. His line­mate, Jonathon Matsumoto, leads the team in points (1 0) and assists (7). Matsumoto, also a junior, led the team in scoring last year and is considered to be one of the most dangerous play­makers in the nation. 
"It's not much different than playing the guys from BC or Air Force, we face great players every week -you just have to be prepared for them," Brown said. 
Matsumoto had two goals in three losses and a tie to the Irish last season. The Irish took the games 9-4, 4-2, 7-4 and 1-1. 
"Last year we ended up matching up fairly well, but that was last year," Jackson said. "I have a lot of respect for [Bowling Green head coach] Scott Paluch, and I know they will be prepared." 
So far this season, the two teams have both faced off with Boston College, Providence and Windsor. The Irish beat all three teams with a combined score of 22-3, while Bowling Green came out on top against Windsor and Providence, but was beaten 5-1 by the Eagles Oct. 21. 
"We just have to come out on Friday and get off to a quick start, then continue to do what we have been doing," Jindra said. 
Tonight's action begins at 7:35, while Saturday's game will start a half hour earlier at 
7:05. Both games will be played at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 




, ' ' . . ~ ' . ... . . . . • I
. ." . . . . •. . , . . .
f • • I '"' ..... ' t. 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 10, 2006 
It's all or nothing for the nation's best squad 

Chris Khorey 
Associate Sports Editor 

Two months and 21 games hesitation when asked about Michele Weissenhofer and a outscored their opponents happen. Because they know after it first started play, the importance of the Big National Player of the Year 67-7 this year. that even if Oakland is Notre Dame's season begins East championship. candidate in Buczkowski. The calm demeanor, how­objectively one of the weak­now. Senior midfielder Jen And that's not counting the ever, masks Waldrum's high est teams they've faced all 
The No. 1 Irish have Buczkowski took it one step host of the other players expecta-year, this known since further. that would be stars on any tions. The game is the August that "Anything less than a other squad. team's most the one and national championship Of course, this team isn't unwaver­important
Notre Dame has been

only goal would be a big disappoint­just a collection of talent. ing focus of the sea­
traveling on the freeway to

for this ment," she said. "Losing is It's also coached well and on the son so far. team is a not acceptable for us." has a group of seniors who lofty goal the College Cup all regular This national Not acceptable, because in -at 86-7-2 over the course of a team's goal
season. but now comes the 

champi­coach Randy Waldrum's pro­of their careers, with one national since
NCAA Tournament exit.

onship, and gram, national champi­national title already title comes August has that quest onships aren't just goals­secured -know how to get straight Andjust because the Irish been a starts they're expectations. the job done. from the have the biggest and fastest national tonight at And why shouldn't they be, "As a senior, knowing what top. He champi­
car doesn •t mean the traffiic

Alumni especially in years like this? it feels like to win a national strives for onship. It Field Why should the nation's only championship and knowing perfection, won •t be heavy. has the tal­against unbeaten team -and what it's like to get knocked and so do ent, experi-. Oakland in arguably the best squad in out early, we've experienced his play-ence and the first round of the NCAA Notre Dame history -be it all,' Buczkowski said. ers. coaching to Tournament. satisfied with anything less "Winning is a lot better feel­After a miscommunication do it. It has been clearly the 
The Irish ran roughshod than a perfect run to a ing." between Lorenzen and back­best team in America all over their regular season national title? For the most part, up goalkeeper Kelsey season, but right now that opponents, going 20-0-1 and The 2006 Irish feature sev­Waldrum lets that senior Lysander resulted in a means nothing. beating two top-10 teams in eral play-leadership meaningless goal by Rutgers The Irish have six more Santa Clara and West ers who have free Sunday, Lorenzen was visi­games that they must win or Virginia. They added a have Of course, this team isn't reign. While bly frustrated and said this season will go down as feather to their cap in the national just a collection oftalent. other pointedly after the game a disappointment, and each Big East championship with team expe­coaches that it "won't happen of those teams will be gun­
It•s also coached well and 
a 4-2 victory over Rutgers rience, rant and again." ning for them. 
last Saturday. including has a group ofseniors, who rave, While a goal like that had Notre Dame has been trav­But none of that was two­-at 86-7-2 over the course Waldrum little impact on Sunday's eling on the freeway to the enough. Because for a team Brittany sits calmly game, Lorenzen worried a College Cup all regular sea­
oftheir careers, and having
with this much talent and Bock and on the side­repeat could derail an entire son, but now comes the senior leadership, each win Carrie Dew already won one line, mak­season. NCAA Tournament exit. and each milestone is just -who national title -know how ing the After all, this is soccer, And just because the Irish another stop on the road to missed occasional and even an 8-10-1 Golden have the. biggest and fastest
to get the job done.
the College Cup finals in part of this (brilliant) Grizzlies squad that snuck car doesn't mean the traffic Cary, N.C. season tactical into the Tournament by win­won't be heavy. 
Senior captain Kim competing change and ning the Mid-Continent con­Lorenzen summed it up per­in the U-20 offering ference tournament can beat The views expressed in fectly after the Rutgers World Championships in quiet words of encourage­the mighty Irish if one Notre this column are those of the game. Russia. The Irish have one ment. This low-pressure Dame player loses focus and author and not necessarily 
"Our ultimate goal is to of the nation's best scorers approach has worked like a Oakland scores a cheap those of The Observer. win the national champi­in Kerri Hanks, one of the charm; the Irish look loose goal. Contact Chris Khorey at onship," she said without country's best freshman in every game and have But the Irish won't let that ckhorey@nd. edu 

. . . . . .. .. . . .. . . . ' .. 
\. , # ••
... .... . '

·. . . . . -.., ...
• ' • • • • ........ 4. • ... , 
Friday, November 10, 2006 page 3
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 

Unsung Lorenzen gives Irish steady leadership 
inaugural 1988 Irish squad. elected me as captain," Lorenzen championship run, scoring three as the anchor of a back line thatBy TIM DOUGHERTY Though Lorenzen has seen sever­said. "At the end of the day it's goals and assisting on four oth­is playing without the Big East 
Sports Writer 

al teammates recognized for their what the team thinks of you that ers. defensive player of the year. performances like 2006 Big East matters the most." Irish coach Randy Waldrum "It bothered me a lot actually," ­
Every team has one -the play­defender of the year sophomore An answer worthy of wearing praised her superior athleticism she said. "I know it was the end er who elicits the highest praise Carrie Dew and Notre Dame's the 'C,' which stands as much for for her versatility in 2004. During of the game and we were up. But from her teammates for her gritty first four-time Big East honoree cliche as it does captain. the past two years, she has com­to me, at the end of the game play and unselfish attitude, yet Christie Shaner. this year marks According to senior midfielder Jill bined that with a "good smart when there was a breakdown, I always manages to be overlooked the fourth season in which the Krivacek, though, Lorenzen's sen­game of soccer," as she's settled could've done something differ­for postseason awards. four-year starter has been shut timents are really from the heart. in at center back as the team's ently to prevent that goal. 
Such is the life for Irish senior out ofBig East honors. "The great thing about Kim is general on the field. Now that Looking back on that, its not that defender Kim Lorenzen, Notre "The most important thing for she really is all about the team," Dew is out for the season with an I'm really stressed about that, but Dame's first solo captain since the me this year is my teammates Krivacek said. "I know it probably injury, that leadership has never our communication going into 
seems really cliche, but I really been more valuable. this tournament has to be better. feel that way about her. It doesn't "Kimmy's vocal. She's not Any let down like that can make even faze her. [Her priority is] afraid to get on somebody on the a difference in the game." game-by-game making sure she's field," Waldrum said. "She's also That attitude is what Waldrum playing well and that the team is smart enough to understand if and the Irish will miss next year. playing well." someone's not performing the "If you look back on the success 
Finally the Big East discovered way they need to be, she knows of our team the past four years the causal relationship between the personalities well enough to when you look at a common those two ideas, awarding know if [she] needs to put [her] denominator its Kimmy Lorenzen tournament defensive arm around them and say 'it's Lorenzen," he said. "When you go most valuable player honors for gonna be OK' and calm down. back and look at our players and her play in the three Irish wins. That's a hard thing to get a leader you start to rate how they were Not surprisingly, Lorenzen was to do." during their careers and you look surprised -not because she More importantly, she holds back at our record with her in the wasn't used to winning awards, herself to the same standards. Up lineup, it kind of answers all the but because she thought her 4-1 against Rutgers in the waning questions about what she does teammates deserved it. moments of Sunday's Big East for us." 
"I felt like it could've been championship game, a ball came For those keeping score at someone like Jill," she said, to the back line that caused mis­home, the Irish are 37-1-1 the "because a lot of the time the communication between past two years when Lorenzen back line's job is a lot easier Lorenzen and keeper Kelsey has played. And regardless of because of the pressure put on by Lysander. After contemplating who notices, the only thing she the midfielders and the front heading the ball back to cares about is finishing 6-0. line." Lysander, she hesitated before "At the end of the day," 
Spoken by a true team player taking the ball herself. But she Waldrum said. "Kimmy would be -but one who also knows first­lost .control of it in front of the one of those that would say, hand the roles played by those in net, where Rutgers forward Kim 'Don't give me anything. Let me front of her. Mineo picked it up and scored. win another national champi­
During her sophomore year, Though the goal proved inconse­onship.'" she switched between defender, quential, Lorenzen said she midfielder and forward. She understands the extra responsi­Contact Tim Dougherty at started 21 games during the bility that rests on her shoulders tdougher@nd.edu 
Bock, Cinalli agree to switch positions for good of squad 
has scored seven goals and By CHRIS KHOREY assisted on three more. Associate Sports Editor "I like playing up front," she 
said. "I get to touch the ball more."
At halftime of Notre Dame's 3­Cinalli has also been produc­1 win over West Virginia Sept. 

tive offensively, with four goals29, Irish coach Randy Waldrum and two assists in significantly
made a lineup change that 

fewer scoring chances than she
would alter the course of the 

got while playing up front. 
season. 

"As long as the team's getting
With his squad down 1-0, 

scoring opportunities, I'm okay
Waldrum switched sophomore 

with that," Cinalli said. 
Brittany Bock and junior 

She's has also had to adjust to
Amanda Cinalli on the field, the defensive side of being a

sending Bock to forward and 

midfielder, a change she said
Cinalli to midfield. 

came easily because Waldrum
The adjustment worked like a 

runs all players, regardless of
charm, netting Cinalli a goal and 

position, through the sameearning Bock an assist as the 
defensive drills. 
Irish came back to win. 

"Our team is always good onNotre Dame had practiced the defense," Cinalli said. "Everyoneswitch, which has since become works at it, so it wasn't some­
permanent, the week before 

thing new." 
playing the Mountaineers. 

With the move, Bock is nowWaldrum thought each play­playing next to Weissenhofer, her
er's skill set better suited the former teammate at Neuqua

new positions. Bock has been Valley High School in Naperville,able to handle the ball further 

Ill.
downficld and pass it to fellow 

"I would always be finding
forwards Kerri Hanks and 

[WeissenhoferJ on through balls,Michele Weissenhofer. 
even when we were a lot
"A lot of the plays have been younger," Bock said of her high

through me. to have me try to 

school days. "It's been a bit dif­hold the ball and distribute it," ferent being with her up front.
she said. 
She's been a forward her entireMeanwhile, Cinalli was able to life and I'm just sort of learning."
take advantage of her field 
Although the position switch awareness and ability to usc her 
disrupted their normal soccer
head. 

routine, Bock and Cinalli said"There are a lot of skills that 
their relationship with each 
are ditTcrent in midfield versus other has not been damaged. 
playing up front." Cinalli said. 

And Cinalli's midfield play,
"You have to win a lot of balls in Bock said, has made the for­the air, you have to be able to see wards look good on several occa­the field, and you have to make sions.

plays and switch the point of 
"I love Cinalli to death. She'sattack." 
one of the hardest working play­Still, there were some growing ers ever," Bock said. "We knowpains. 
she'll win the head ball, we know"When we first practiced it, I 
she'll look for us up top, and
didn't know what to do," Bock she'll make runs ofher own."
said. Eventually, the sophomore fig­Contact Chris Khorey at ured it out. Since the switch, she ckhorey@nd.edu 

·.  
I t. • • -.. •  ' •  ; •,  , ' -. , .. , r I ~ 7 .,.  ...  
page 4  The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER  Friday, November 10, 2006  

Irish host Golden Grizzlies to open tourney 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
When a team's sole goal is to 
win the National Championship, 
21 regular season and Big East 
tournament games can feel like 
an eternity. 
For No. 1 Notre Dame, the big show finally begins tonight at 
7:30 as the Irish host Oakland (Mich.) in the first round of the NCAA Tournament at Alumni Field. 
The Irish enter the match on the heels of their second Big East tournament championship in a row after taking down St. Johns 3-0, Marquette 2-0 and Rutgers 4-2 to earn a No. 1 seed and potential home field advantage until the Final Four Dec. 1-3 in Cary, N.C. 
The Golden Grizzlies (8-1 0-1) earned a trip to South Bend after besting Western Illinois in a shootout 1-1 (4-3) to capture the Mid-Continental conference championship. 
Though Oakland's resume this year falls short of those posted by Notre Dame's last three con­ference opponents, Irish coach Randy Waldrum expects the Grizzlies to make things hard for Notre Dame, especially on defense. 
"We've been scouting [Oakland]. All indications lean to them bunkering in a little bit," Waldrum said. "We've played a lot of teams that play like that -sit in and really pack the goal. The difficulty in a game like that is being patient. 

And if you don't take advantage 
of your opportunities it could go 
to overtime and lead to penalty 
kicks. 

"The focus of the team is to 
make sure we're taking advan­
tage of lour oppertunities] but 
still being patient." 

If the Irish win Friday, they will play the winner of the Michigan vs. Wisconsin­Milwaukee game, to be played tonight at 5 at Alumni Field. 
The first tournament weekend will be the only until the Final Four that contains two games, a situation that presents an added challenge when it comes to preparing for Sunday's potential match. If the Irish beat Oakland, they will only have one day to go over a game plan for the Wolverines or Panthers. 
However, Irish captain Kim Lorenzen said the team refuses to look that far ahead. 
"The most important thing is to take once game at a time," she said. "I know it sounds cliche, but if we don't take care of this on Friday there is no Sunday. At this point its tourna­ment time and we are taking the stance that anything can really happen. We are getting [the opposing] team's best game because it could be their last game. And that's what we want to bring also -our best game because it could be our last." 
Single elimination means no margin of error for the Irish come game time. Similarly, Lorenzen said practices are tak­ing that same shape. 
"We are really making sure 
this week our touches are on," 
Lorenzen said. "Every pass is 
perfect -making sure ... 
everything is perfect so that we 
have a good preparation for 
Friday. We feel if we practice in 
an environment that is com­
pletely focused than it will be 
easy to translate that into the 
game." 

When it comes to their game environment, though, the Irish hope Alumni Field looks the same as it has been all season long. Notre Dame ranks third in the country in home attendance this year with an average crowd of 2,350. 
With 15 Irish players hailing from Illinois, Indiana, Ohio and Pennsylvania, there is never a shortage of family in the stands. David and Susan Shaner, par­ents of senior defender and third team All-Big East selec­tion Christie Shaner, make their presence felt, however, no mat­ter where the Irish play-trav­eling to every game home or away in the unofficial Recreation Vehicle of Notre Dame soccer. 
"lThe Shaner's RVJ has kind of become legend now," Waldrum said. "They come to almost every game. It's nice to see we've got such a following from a family. In fact, we're for­tunate that we have a lot of families that do that." 
Presence of the Shaner's RV has been about as dependable as Notre Dame's success this year. And both are linked to the closeness of the senior class, as the bonds extend to the players' parents. that really follows the team like 

"It has kind of become one of that." those meeting places here at Those wheels will roll in home before the games," again on Friday. But from here Waldrum said. "When we come on out, the Irish are the driver's out on the field all the families seat. are in the RV hanging out with the Shaners. So it's kind of a Contact Tim Dougherty at neat thing that we have a group tdougher@nd.edu 

FiiSt/Sealnd Round Nov.10& 12 1 North Carolina 
louisville Duke UAB 
SMU McNeese St. 

2 UCLA UNLV 
4 Utah Idaho St. 
Connecticut Columbia Barnard Lon Island 1 Texas 

2006 NCAA Division I Women's 
Soccer Championship 
Third Round Quarterfinals Semifinals Finals Semifinals Quarterfinals Third Round Nov.17or18or19 Nav.24or25or26 Dec.1 Dec.3 Dec.1 Nov.24or25or26 Nov.17or18or19 
First'Second Round Nov.10& 12 1 Santa Clara* 
S uthem California Nevada Stanford Clemson Vanderbilt UNC Greensboro 4 Oklahoma St. 
3111inois Southeast Mo. st. Drake St. louis* California 
2 Penn St. Niagra Toledo Villanova Boston Colle e Boston U. 
4 Colorado Colorado Col. Denver 
Kentucky 
Oakland 1 Notre Dame 

*Host Institution. NOTE: The first semifinal game wil airlive oo ESPN2 and ESPNU. The second serminal game will air live on ESPNU and also tape delayed on ESPN2 on Dec. 2 at noon ET 

, . 




.. • ' ' 1t ' ' • " 
,. ~ ' . . ' 
. .. . 
page 2 
It's written so often. The column about Army, Navy and Air Force -the wave­the-flag, thank-a-veteran story recycled every Memorial 
Day. 
But it isn't until you see a foot­ball coach's watery eyes at a press conference 

that you 
Mike Gilloon
realize what it all means. Editor in Chief 
Gregg Lewis could have been an engineer. He could have been a career military man. If all had gone well, he would have attained the rank of Air Force major this year. 
All didn't go well for him or his 11 buddies of the 66th rescue squadron that flew in two choppers on a training mission over the dark Nevada desert eight years ago. 
The middle son of Notre Dame defensive backs coach Bill Lewis, Gregg Lewis died that early September night when the helicopters collided, killing everyone on board. 
Tough enough to walk on as a freshman at the Air Force, Gregg played in all of the Academy's junior varsity 
' \ 

games that season and "had a great time" his dad said. He didn't make the varsity the next year and settled in as a team manager. 
Tomorrow, almost a decade after his death, Gregg Lewis will be remembered. Both Notre Dame and Air Force will wear small stickers on the back of their helmets, in honor of the 1992 Academy graduate. 
Gregg's brother Geoff organized the project. He wrote letters to Irish coach Charlie Weis and Falcons coach Fisher DeBerry ­both of whom were quick to agree. 
That didn't surprise Lewis. He says he agreed to come to South Bend -after a long coaching career that included three head coaching jobs and a stint as an NFL assistant ­because of Charlie Weis. 
"Charlie is one of the most caring people in the world," Lewis said. 
Lewis told about the day after Gregg died, when he was coaching the Dolphins in a game against New England. Weis, then an assistant with the Patriots, came up to Lewis before kickoff and gave his condolences. 
''I'll always remember that," said Lewis. 
Hearing Bill Lewis' voice quietly crack as he talks 
#9 HocKEY vs. BoWLING GREEN @7:30PM 
, 

SuNDAY NoVEMBER 12 VoLLEYBALL vs. WEsT VIRGINIA @2:00PM 
ATTENDING YOUR TENTH GAME, YOU CAN RECEIVE AFREE PAIR OF ND CROCS! 
squadron. 
traction. 
endured. 
... 
' . 

Friday, November 10, 2006 page 3 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Making his presence felt 
Irish senior Derek Landri has a key role in Notre Dame's defense, strong love for his community 
By BOB GRIFFIN Sports Writer 
Derek Landri's journey through Noire Dame-athleti­cally and socially -hasn't exactly followed the classic pattern for a highly touted recruit out of California high school powerhouse De La Salle. 
On the outside, he's a fierce defensive lineman who blocked two extra points in Notre Dame's 45-26 win against North Carolina. He is third on the team with 44 tackles this season (8.5 for a loss) and sec­ond in sacks with four. 
He teams with senior defen­sive tackle Trevor Laws (39 tackles, 3.5 sacks) to anchor an interior line that has been a leading force on the Irish defense all season. 
If one looks deeper into Landri, they encounter an individual who has dealt with more on the football field than most college players. He's seen four coaches in five years, and while it's a reality that Landri shrugs off-he acknowledges the "rollercoaster" type atmos­phere it created. 
Landri was recruited by Bob Davie before coming in as a freshman in 2002. While he was a senior in high school, Davie was fired and George O'Leary was brought in. Landri remembers what it was like when O'Leary was hired to 
right the ship. 
"(There was] a big uncer­tainty pretty much every year I was here," Landri said. "Starting with Davie, you com­mit to him and then half way 
through that ../formed a good home away from 
year he gets relationship with home type of canned. Then thing."
different people -the
O'Leary comes Oliva believes
Delpilar family. the the initial meet­
in and everyone hypes him up Oliva family -a ing occurred that he's sup­during Landri's
couple families that are
posed to be the junior season.
just in the community.·· 
best thing, then He's not exactly he gets positive when it canned." happened, but
Derek Landri 

Of course, knows it was
Irish defensive tackle
after 0' Leary was fired, Notre Dame brought in Tyrone Willingham -who Landri knew little about other than that he had a few "up and down" seasons at Stanford. 
Willingham's first season ­the infamous Return to Glory campaign -was Landri's freshman year, even though he didn't see the field. And after Willingham went 11-13 in the following two seasons, Landri again found himself in a famil­iar position adjusting to a new coach. 
But, as Landri would attest, everything works out for the best. 
''I'm happy as anything that they got coach Weis and he's in here now," Landri said. "I feel that I'm here at Notre Dame at the perfect time." 
But there's a lot about Landri that one wouldn't know by watching him on the field, or considering the coaching changes he's seen during his time at Notre Dame. 
And that's the Derek Landri who has weaved his way through the University in a focused on football, extends much deeper. 
The doctor and the 
landscaper 
Coming east from the West Coast beaches he used to surf with his father in Huntington, Calif., the senior defensive tackle was immediately thrust into a 10-by-12 foot Dillon Hall dorm room. 
While Landri credits the 
dorm life for allowing him to 
meet some close friends, it 
wasn't the type of atmosphere 
he preferred. He and close 
friend Anthony Salvador, who 
graduated in 2006, explored 
the relatively secluded cam­
pus. 

The two played at De La Salle together, and came to Notre Dame as freshmen -Landri the big-time recruit and Salvador the little-known walk on. 
But once Landri grew tired of the Notre Dame bubble, he looked elsewhere. And in the process, he met two friends. 
South Bend residents Arnold Delpilar and Mike Oliva are not Notre Dame students. In fact, they aren't students at all -one's a doctor and one's a landscaper. 
Landri met Oliva -the land­scaper -at Armando's, an Italian barbershop located on 1639 Edison Road in South Bend. 
"I formed a good relationship with different people -the 
Delpilar family, the Oliva fami­ly -a couple families that are just in the community that aren't necessarily affiliated with Notre Dame," Landri said. "They kind of made it a 

several years 
ago. The two 

shared a barber, Dominic, and began talking. 
"When he came into the area he was a little bit lonely ... he came to find the Italians so he went to the local barber shop," Oliva said. "We hit it off pretty good and became friends." 
Oliva's sister Mary is married to Delpilar -a local doctor who has an office on Ironwood Road and is opening a new center in Mishawaka. The fam­ilies welcomed Landri -they all share an Italian descent ­and have maintained a rela­tionship ever since. Oliva said he waits outside Notre Dame Stadium for Landri after games to offer congratulations. 
"On the outside he's a nor­mal guy. when he's on the field he's an animal," Oliva said. "He's an outstanding individ­ual." 
So what do his teammates think of his friends outside the Notre Dame community? Fellow defensive tackle Trevor Laws couldn't help but laugh when discussing Landri's bud­dies in the South Bend area. 
interesting guy for sure." 
California upbringing 
But while Landri spent time during college embracing his Italian roots with doctors, landscapers and barbers, he's much better known for being the kid from California who is usually mentioned alongside Laws. 
Landri isn't sure exactly how 
he developed that reputation, seeing that he doesn't sub­scribe to the traditional laid­back California mentality. 
But he is an avid surfer. 
"You definitely have to have balance [if you're a big guy surfing]," Landri said with a slight smile. "I mostly did long boarding and stuff, but I don't talk like most [ofl the people out there with the 'yo cool dude.' 
"I don't skateboard, I don't rollerblade -I don't do that stuff." 
In that sense, he didn't fit the "surfer boy" image. Especially given the company he had in his incoming fresh­man class. 
"I never really got the West Coast thing until I came out here and people started put­ting me in the category with [Chris] Frome and [Anthony] Vernaglia, the surfer type wearing shades," Landri said. "But I don't think I fit in the category with those two." 
While. Landri debates his reputation as a surfer-dude from California, there's no question he excelled on the football field at one of the top programs in the country -De La Salle. 
The high school has pro­duced numerous NFL players including New York Giants receiver Amani Toomer and, more recently, Jacksonville Jaguars running back Maurice Jones-Drew-a good friend of Landri's from their high school playing days (Jones-Drew was a year behind Landri). 
While at De La Salle, Landri established himself as one of the top players in the school's history. As a senior, he won Califor.nia Player of the Year ­joining Toomer and D.J. 
Today prep All-American that year, and the No. 5 overall high school prospect according to CNNSI.com. But despite his high school's reputation and his personal accomplishments, Landri felt little pressure com­ing into college. 
"Pressure's what you put on yourself," Landri said. "The majority of kids that come in here are real hyped up. All 
League, All State, All American, that type of thing. I think you just come here to play ball the best of your abili­ty and whatever happens, hap­pens." 
And there's nothing more that Landri would want than to join his old high school teammate playing professional football next year. 
"Hopefully playing for a while, that's a dream, I'm sure it's a dream for a lot of people but hopefully I'm playing for a while," he said. "Where, it doesn't really matter -I just enjoy playing football." 
Finding his place 
Landri has three regular season games left in his Notre Dame career, and if the Irish win all three, they will most likely be headed to the Sugar Bowl in New Orleans provided a near-miracle doesn't propel them into the BCS 
j I 
I 
' 
Championship game. 
But Landri isn't the type who's concerned with where the team ranks in certain polls or how the group is perceived by TY. commentators. In fact, Landri -a sports fan growing up -doesn't watch much ESPN anymore at all. 
"I don't think too fondly of people that comment on that 
we're overrated and we don't have a defense and that type of thing," Landri said. "Growing up a sports kid, ESPN's one of your favorite shows. But you almost grow to dislike it. But I think that's just the way life is, the way the world is. 
"I don't watch it nearly as much as I used to because I don't want to listen to someone who doesn't know too much about the in and outs." 
But Landri doesn't need the support of those on television who criticize his team. The lonely kid walking into the barbershop a few short years ago now has his own company: a few nice local Italians, those friendly waves back home in California and the over­matched offensive linemen he encounters every Saturday. 
Contact Bob Griffin at 
rgriffi3@nd.edu 
by the numbers 

Victories Air Force coach Fisher DeBerry has over the Irish in his 
4 

career with the Falcons. The all-time record in the Air Force-Notre Dame series, heav­
ily favoring the Irish. Irish quarterback Brady Quinn's current streak of consecutive 
21-5 
2Q4 

passes without an interception. 2 Games between Notre Dame and Air Force that have gone into over­
time. The Irish have played in just six overtime games overall. Air Force's rank in rushing offense, with 266.9 yards per game. 
3 

manner unlike his peers, "He definitely has that Williams as the only players in classmates and teammates, Italian connection," Laws said school history to receive that 
49 
Notre Dame's rank in rushing defense, giving up 126.33 yards per
creating for himself a unique with a smile. "He knows a lot acknowledgement. 
game.

college experience that, while of people I don't know. He's an He was also a first-team USA • 
.. \ . . ' 

... . ' . ., ' .... . ' 
' .~ ' ~ ., 
Friday, November 10, 2006

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 



Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 8-1 AP: 9 Coaches: 8 

Charlie Weis Second season at Notre Dame career record: 
17-4 

at Notre Dame: 
17-4 

Charlie Weis against head coach Air Force: 0-0 
Roster 
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  
1  D.J. Hord  WR  6--1  
2  Darrin Walls  DB  6--1  
3  Darius Walker  RB  5-11  
4  Demetrius Jones  QB  6-4  
5  Rhema McKnight  WR  6--1  
6  Ray Herring  DB  6-()  
7  Crai~Cardillo  K  6-()  
8  Raes on McNeil  DB  6-()  
9  Tom Zbikowski  DB  5-11  
10  Brady Quinn  QB  6-4  
11  Da,•id Grimes  WR  6-()  
12  Zach Frazer  QB  6-4  
13  Evan Sharpley  QB  6-2  
14  Bobby Renkes  K  6-()  
15  Leo Ferrine  DB  6-()  
17  Geoffrey Price  p  6-3  
17  Dan Gorski  QB  6-3  
18  Chinedum Ndukwe  DB  6-2  
19  George West  WR  5-8  
20  Terrail Lambert  DB  5-11  
21  Barry Gallup Jr.  WR  5-11  
22  Ambrose W<x>den  CB  5-11  
23  Chase Anastasio  WR  6--2  
23  W. David Williams  DB  5-10  
24  Brandon Erickson  WR  6-()  
25  Munir Prince  RB  5-10  
26  Wade lams  DB  5-9  
26  Travis Thomas  RB  6-()  
27  David Bruton  DB  6-2  
27  John Lyons  RB  6-1  
28  Kyle McCarthy  DB  6-()  
29  Jashaad Gaines  DB  6-()  
29  Jake Richardsville  WR  6-()  
30  Mike Richardson  DB  5-11  
31  Sergio Brown  DB  6--1  
32  Luke Schmidt  RB  6-3  
33  Nate Whitaker  K  5-9  
34  James Aldridge  RB  6-0  
35  Ashley McConnell  RB  6-0  
35  lim Kenney  DB  6-0  
36  DexCure  RB  6-1  
">.7 311  J.:J·ktJ>-:;..'t,y  RR WR  5-11 6-l  
39  Ryan Burkhart  K  5-11  
39  Kevin Bnx1ks  TE  6--2  
40  Maurice Crum, Jr.  LB  6-0  
41  Scott Smith  LB  6-3  
42  Kevin Washington  LB  6-1  
42  David Costanzo  WR  5-9  
43  Eric Maust  p  6-1  
43  Mike Anello  DB  5-10  
44  Asaph Schwapp  RB  6-0  
45  Kris Patterson  WR  5-11  
45  Carl Gioia  K  5-10  
46  Michael Planalp  TE  6-4  
46  Kyle Charters  LB  5-11  
47  Mitchell Thomas  LB  6-3  
48  Steve Quinn  LB  6-2  
49  Matt Augustyn  FB  6-3  
49  Toryan Smith  LB  6-0  
50  Dan Santucci  OL  6-4  
51  Dan Wenger  OL  6-4  
52  Joe Brockin~ton  LB  6-1  
53  Morrice Ric ardson  LB  6-2  
54  Anthony Vemaglia  DB  6-3  
55  Eric Olsen  OL  6-4  
56  Nick Borseti  LB  6-4  
57  Dwight Stephenson  ·  DL  6-2  
59  Chris Steward  OL  6-5  
60  Casey Cullen  DL  6-1  
61  J.J. Jansen  LS  6-3  
63  Jeff Ttsak  OL  6-3  
64  Dan Chervanick  DL  6-1  
66  Derek Landri  DL  6-3  
68  ~an Harris  OL  6-5  
69  eil Kennedy  DL  5-11  
71  Bartley Webb  OL  6-7  
72  Paul Duncan  OL  6-7  
73  Matt Carufel  OL  6-5  
74  Sam Young  OL  6-7  
75  Chris Fmme  DL  6-5  
76  Bob Morton  OL  6-4  
77  Michael Turkovich  OL  6-6  
78  John Sullivan  OL  6-4  
79  Brian Mattes  OL  6-6  
80  Richard Jackson  WR  6-3  
81  Darrin Bragg  WR  6-1  
82  Robby Parris  WR  6-4  
83  Jeff Samardzija  WR  6-5  
84  Will Yeatman  TE  6-6  
86  Mike Talerico  TE  6-5  
87  Marcus Freeman  TE  6-3  
88  Konrad Reuland  TE  6-6  
89  John Carlson  TE  6-5  
90  John Ryan  DL  6-5  
91  Travis Leitko  DL  6-7  
92  Derrell Hand  DL  6-3  
93  Paddy Mullen  DL  6-5  
94  Justin Brown  DL  6-3  
95  Victor Abiamiri  DL  6-4  
96  Pat Kuntz  DL  6-2  
97  Kallen Wade  DL  6-5  
98  Trevor Laws  DL  6-1  
'19  Ronald Talley  DL  6-4  


Wt. YR 192 so 175 FR 208 JR 202 FR 212 SR 189 so 170 SR 175 FR 203 SR 227 SR 170 so 215 FR 207 so 195 SR 186 JR 186 SR 196 so 219 SR 179 FR 188 JR 175 FR 197 SR 203 SR 170 JR 178 JR 175 FR 188 JR 215 SR 187 so 205 SR 189 so 195 FR 180 so 193 SR 184 FR 230 FR 165 FR 209 FR 247 SR 180 SR 215 FR 
190 

IS3 I~ 185 FR 230 FR 220 JR 234 so 231 so 170 so 180 FR lBO so 250 so 174 so 183 SR 230 so 195 JR 240 SR 220 JR 220 SR 230 FR 290 SR 285 FR 212 SR 228 FR 221 JR 290 FR 238 SR 252 SR 340 FR 238 SR 242 JR 305 so 259 SR 263 SR 288 SR 260 JR 290 FR 292 so 288 FR 292 FR 268 SR 292 SR 290 so 298 SR 285 SR 200 FR 192 JR 185 FR 216 SR 250 FR 245 JR 245 SR 239 FR 255 SR 240 FR 270 SR 301 so 265 FR 247 JR 260 SR 267 so 220 FR 293 SR 261 JR 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
NOTRE DAME 2006 Schedule 
Sept. 2 at Ga. Tech-W Sept. 9 PENNST.-W Sept.16 MICIHGAN-L 
Sept. 23  atMSU -W  
Sept. 30  PURDUE ­ W  
Oct. 7  SfANFORD-W  
Oct. 21  UCLA-W  
Oct. 28  atNavy-W  
Nov. 4  UNC-W  
Nov.ll  at Air Force  
Nov.18  ARMY  
Nov. 25  at USC  

COACHING 
Charlie Weis has the most impressive win­ning percentage through 21 games for the Irish of any coach since Ara Parseghian. Weis' detractors say he has never won "the big one," but nor has he lost to a far inferior opponent.  
Fisher DeBerry is the all­time winningcst coach at Air Force, recording 169 victories in 274 games. DeBerry was fearless on the road against Tennessee this year, going for a two-point conversion at the end of the game with the Falcons trailing the Volunteers by one.  

1&.1 
::E 
<
c 
1&.1
a:: 
1­
0 
z 
1&.1 
(.)
a:: 
& 
-a:: 
<C 

DeBerry is, by all counts, a tremendous week-long coach who has done more for the 




QUARTERBACKS IRISH PASSING IRISH RUSHING 
Brady Quinn's 23-of-35, four-touchdown showing against North Carolina was just one more stellar game for the likely No. 1 quarterback drafted in 2007. Quinn's best asset may be limiting his mis­takes. He's thrown 204 passes in a row without an interception.  
Shaun Carney has completed 54 percent of his passes to give him quarterback rating of 133.8, though he has only 70 attempts this year. The key to Carney's game is his rushing, as the junior has 531 yards on 134 attempts.  
Carney is a good option quarterback, but his offense is not nearly as efficient as Quinn's. Notre Dame's offense relies heavily upon Quinn's high intelligence and deadly accuracy, which he delivers fully nearly every week.  

The Irish have four players -receivers Rhema McKnight and Jeff Samardzija, tight end John Carlson and tail­back Darius Walker -with more than 45 cateh­es on the season. Defenses have struggled to shut down all Quinn's options.  

Air Force has nine interceptions by seven players on the season, including two each by juniors John Rabold and Julian Madrid. The Falcons also have 11 pass break-ups and 13 quarterback hurries against opposing offenses.  

Darius Walker averag~s 4.3 yards a carry and 85 yard<> a game. Those num­bers are solid, but below average for top-10 teams. Notre Dame has struggled all season trying to establish a straight-ahead rushing game and has found pro­duction through draw plays.  

Air Force has held opponents to just 3.9 yards per carry and 131.9 yards per game on the ground. Most impressively, the Falcons held Tennessee to 79 yards rushing in their heartbreaking season-opening loss in Knoxville.  


Mike Gillon 
Editor in Chief 


Early in the season this looked like one Air 
Because Air Force likes to keep the ball on Force could pull out -at home, against a Notre 
offense, the Falcons are playing at home and Dame team looking pa<>t the Falcons and toward 
Notre Dame hasn't had a consistent running USC. After the way Brady Quinn and the Irish 
game all season -the Irish might lose the time of
Irish 

offense performed last week, a let down isn't in 
possession battle. But that doesn't mean Notre the books. Fisher DeBerry has the Falcons 
Dame won't throw the ball on the Falcons second­pumped and Air Force breaks a few long runs. 
ary and score on it<> first few possessions. The
experts 

But Jeff Samardzija pads his career touchdown 
Irish get out to a quick lead, and Air Force tacks total and the Irish roll on their way to the BCS. on a late touchdown to make it a 14-point game. 
ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 42 ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38 Air Force 17 Air Force 24 

.. • • f .. 
. . . .
~ 
Bob Griffin 
Asst. Managing Editor 
' .. Friday, November I 0, 2006 

The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 


WIDE RECEIVER 
Thompson Root 

LEFT TACKLE Kraay 
Zeman 
LEFT GUARD Charles 
Dohollow 

Air Force Falcons 

FALCONS PASSING FALCONS RUSHING SPECIAL TEAMS 
I ' The Falcons have not pretended to be a team \\ith a real passing attack. Carney's top throwing total is 19 against Navy, and he has only thrown 70 pa'tSes all season. Only one player  The Falcons are one of the best rushing teams in the nation with a 266.9 yard-per-game average. Air Force's three-back set frustrates defenses and pounds hard against  Tom Zbikowski finally returned a punt for a touchdown against North Carolina and very nearly got a second later in the game, and Geoff Price is one of the nation's best  Notre Dame has another game against an option team (Army) after this week. For most teams, facing Air Force is a one­week hiccup for the defense. But for the Irish,  
-Victor Thompson with 12 -has caught more than eight passes for Air Force.  opposing lines, and Chad Hall's 5.6 yard-per-carry average leads the starting corps.  power punters. Carl Gioia has gotten more experience kicking, which should help him.  who have already faced Navy this year, the game is closer to just another match up.  
The Irish secondary has improved all season but is still extremely vulnerable to big plays by opponents. Terrail Lambert and Mike Richardson have been  Notre Dame's rush defense has been stout lately, keeping runs between the taekles within a yard or two of the line of scrimmage. Derek Landri and Trevor Laws have  The Falcons average an abysmal 14.8 yards per kickoff return but have been surrendering just 12.4 when they kick ofT. Zach Sasser handles both the punting and the place  Air Force plays hard and well against top teams. DeBerry always has his squad energized for big opponents, and the Falcons' tough schedule gives them  
solid on most draws, but wide outs still can find their way behind the Irish third line.  been aggressive and explosive in the middle, forcing opposing offenses to go toward the sidelines.  kicking for Air Force. He averages 42 yards per punt and is 7 -of-9 on field goals this season.  experience and an edge over most other teams when facing a squad like Notre Dame.  
For Notre Dame, North Carolina receiver Hakeem Nicks' 72-yard touchdown in the third quarter last week was not an exception -it  Against most teams, Notre Dame's run defense would get the advantage. But Air Force is not an ordinary team. The Falcons are not afraid to  Kickoff coverage has been solid for the Irish with the lone exception of Tar Heels deep man Brandon Tate's 90-yard touchdown last week.  This rivalry was more intense in the early 1980s but now is more of a novelty game. Notre Dam~ doesn't have much to  
has been the general rule that the Irish will give up at least OJ!e long play every week,  take hits or go again'it their opponent's strength. Air Force may not throw for many yard<;, but it will run  Overall, Notre Dame is more explosive and more dangerous on special learns for key  gain by a big win on CSTV and Air Force doesn't have much to rose agai'iis'f a: good  
many for touchdowns.  well.  field posi~ion.  team.  





QUARTERBACK Carney 
Ollis 
RIGHT GUARD 
Ken Fowler 
Sports Editor 
RIGHT END 
Frome 
r:.-,.,____Ryan . tf(:,_.-.. " 
.· ~ TA<-KtE i\ ~2~ 
landrl ... >, 
c~ 
INSIDE UNEBACKER 
1. ji.~ith Ci
41/t1 ~ 

The Irish ground the Falcons in Colorado Springs with a devastating air attack and a solid running game. Brady Quinn will play just 40 minutes, and Evan Sharpley will see his first meaningful time, throwing the ball along with handing off to James Aldridge and Munir Prince. The defense plays well, and defensive end Victor Abiamiri closes in on the Irish single-season and career sack records. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 45 Air Force 17 
CORNERRACK Richllf'dson 
McCa--·
Jj [ ( Bruto~., 'T 
)\;, 
S-1!1 : 

·~~ ~~~~-\STRO::·,
~-! v I SAFETY 
,. , ; Zbikowski 
~ Herring 
i! .:?i 
~lr)
ij 
CORNERBACKc"0 \ 
Wood«~ < _, Walls 


Kate Gales 
Associate Sports Editor 

AirFOITe 2006 Schedule 
Sept. 9 at Tennessee-L Sept. 23 atWyoming-W 
Sept. 30 
Oct. 7 
Oct. 12 
Oct. 21 Oct. 28 Nov. 3 Nov. 11 Nov. 18 Nov. 24 Dec. 2 


w 
NAVY-L CO.STATE-W 
atSanDiegoSt-L 
BYU-L 
atArmy-W 

NOTRE DAME UTAH 
atUNLV at Texas Christian 
INTANGIBLES 
z 
0 
-4 m ~ 
~ 
3: 
m 
-
n 
::z:::
-
G) 
l> 
z 
en 
~ 
.... 
m 
l> 
z 
l> 
~ 
en
-
en 
1 2 3 4 5 6 
7 
8 9 10 11 12 13 14 IS 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 
23 
24 
25 
26 27 28 29 
30 
31 32 33 
34 
35 
36 37 
38 
39 
40 
41 42 46 47 
48 
49 52 53 
54 
55 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 69 70 72 73 78 79 80 81 82 83 
84 
85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 % 97 98 99 

Air Force isn't going away easily, but the Irish offense has found its rhythm and is able to score at will. The Irish likely will give up over 200 yards on the ground but Brady Quinn will easily adjust to the thin mountain air, throwing six touchdown passes to put the game out of reach for the Zoomies. Victor Abiamiri will hit milestones for sacks. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 49 Air Force 28 
Air Force Falcons 
Fisher DeBerry 23rd season at Air Force career record: 
169-105-1 
at Air Force: 
169-105-1 
against Notre 
Fisher DeBerry Dame: 3-10 head coach 
Roster 
No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 
Record: 4-4 AP: NR Coaches: NR 

Chad Hall  HB  5-7  180  JR  
Carson Bird  CB  5-11  190  JR  
Nathan Smith  CB  5-10  180  JR  
Julian Madrid  FS  6-0  205  JR  
Shaun Carney  QB  5-10  190  JR  
Chris Sutton  CB  6-0  180  SR  
MarkRoot  WR  6-2  195  JR  
Jacobe Kendrick  FB  6-0  230  SR  
John Rabold  FAL  6-4  220  JR  
Adam Zanotti  FAL  5-11  205  SR  
Bobby Giannini  FS  6-2  210  )R  
Mike Moffett  WR  5-11  195  JR  
Kyle Black  QB  6-0  185  FR  
Shea Smith  QB  5-10  190  50  
Jim Ollis  QB/KR 5-11  190  JR  
Tommy Daniels  QB  5-10  185  50  
Kip McCarthy  HB  5-10  190  JR  
Justin Handley  HB  5-8  175  SR  
Ty Paffett  HB  5-11  180  JR  
Dan Hill  FAL  6-1  190  FR  
Ryan Williams  FB  5-9  215  JR  
Beau Suder  HB  5-11  195  JR  
Aaron Kirchoff  FAL  "-I  200  50  
Chad Smith  HB  5-10  190  JR  
Todd Newell  HB  5-11  195  JR  
Jared Baxley  LB  6-0  200  SR  
Trey Eaton  FS  1>-2  180  50  
Charles Wells  FB  5-10  215  FR  
Chris Huckins  CB  5-10  180  SR  
Kevin Rivers  FS  6-0  190  50  
Daylan Phillips  HB  5-11  200  so  
Hunter Altman  FAL  5-11  185  50  
Drew Fowler  LB  6-2  235  so  
Chris Thomas  FS  5-11  200  FR  
Tl"entR..............,.y Brad Meisscn  ·,.,,  FS  ~11  185  SR  
Tony Norman  D5  5-11  195  JR  
Matt Davis  HB  5-11  175  so  
Garrett Rybak  CB  5-11  175  JR  
Scott P1..>eples  FB  5-10  220  JR  
Robert Barlow  FB  5-11  215  50  
Joey Keller  LB  6-2  230  SR  
Jacob Branstetter  K  5-11  165  FR  
Zach Sasser  K  6-1  185  JR  
Brandon Rl>eves  LB  6-2  225  50  
Andrew McKain  LB  6-0  200  so  
Austin Randle  LB  6-0  230  JR  
Ben Ryan  LB  6-1  215  JR  
Bryan Jones  D5  6-l  235  SR  
Gilberto Perez  DE  6-3  275  SR  
Nick Charles  OT  6-4  255  FR  
Josh Casteel  c  6-3  275  so  
Thomas Crump  OG  6-2  275  SR  
Stuart Perlow  c  6-4  305  SR  
Tyler Dohallow  OG  6-3  295  SR  
Curtis Grantham  OG  6-2  280  SR  
Andrew Pipes  c  6-1  260  50  
Blaine Guenther  OT  6-2  270  JR  
Caleb Morris  OG/C  6-2  275  JR  
Ryan Zeman  OT  6-4  265  JR  
Robert Kraay  OT  6-8  295  SR  
Dan Holder  OT  6-6  280  JR  
Garrett Gilbertson  DE  6-4  230  50  
Keith Williams  DT  6-6  255  so  
Anthony Hemphill  WR  6-2  180  FR  
Vic Thompson  WR  6-1  195  so  
Michael Krogh  TE  6-3  240  JR  
Spencer Armstrong  WR  6-1  195  so  
Jeff Bohlman  DE  6-4  230  so  
Keith Madsen  TE  6-3  230  50  
ChrisEvans  TE  6-2  240  JR  
Christopher Carp  P  5-10  170  SR  
Travis Dekker  TE  6-4  240  JR  
Noah Garquile  DE  6-5  265  JR  
Chris Monson  DT  6-4  255  JR  
Ryan Kemp  DE  6-5  235  so  
David Nan  DE  6-2  240  50  
Ryan Gonzales  DE  6-4  250  FR  
Anthony Schelstrate  NG  6-4  260  50  
Jake Paulson  DE  6-4  260  so  
Grant Thomas  NG  6-1  275  SR  
josh Clayton  DE  6-4  260  JR  
Colin Hartwell  K  5-11  180  JR  
Kevin Quinn  DE/DT 6-1  255  SR  

Irish experts 
.. 

T 
, t ~ 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 10, 2006 
Sizing up the Irish and the Falcons 


FALCONS 
RUSHING OFFENSE 
Air Force runs as efficiently as any team in the nation. The Falcons average 
266.9 yards per game. Chad Gall comes in at 5.6 yards per carry and quar­terback Shaun Carney, above, is dangerous on the run. 
For the Irish, play­ing against Navy before this game was good exposure to defending at least some of the option. The Falcons will have to pull ·out some new plays and execute nearly flawlessly to score many points on this Notre Dame defense. 
IRISH 
RuN DEFENSE 
The Irish rush defem;e is 49th in the nation, allowing 126.33 yads per game. The team gave up 211 yards to Navy in just the first half of that game, although the sec­ond half saw a much­improved Irish defense. Victor Abiamiri (above) had two sacks against the Midshipmen. 
But the fact remains that the Midshipmen totaled 271 yards run­ning an offense similar to that the Falcons will use against the Irish. 
The defensive line looked good against North Carolina last weekend, but to shut down the triple option, the linebackers will have to be more involved. 

ALMOST GONE! 
80/90 Toll Road
Exit 

OW to secure one ACT~ the last units! 
Douglas 
CO) CO) 
~ 
'" 
'0 DOME
rr: 
..Gl 
.." 
t/) 


. 
. ~ I 

.. 
• . 1 • '' 'lo .. • I
' 
.. 
Friday, November 10, 2006 page 7 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Falcons' attack different from Midshipmen 
Air Force offense is more diverse than Midshipmen option 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Ediror 
Two weeks ago, Notre Dame's defense started slowly, surrendering three drives of 60 or more yards to the option-running Midshipmen to start the game. The Irish recovered and held Navy to the 14 points it scored in the first half. 
On Saturday, the Irish are hoping to play a more com­plete, 60-minute game against the Falcons' option offense. But just because Notre Dame figured out how to sink one service academy doesn't mean it can ground the other. 
And the problems for the Irish begin with the seemingly simple inclusion of a tight end. 
Air Force enters the contest with an average of 267 yards per game rushing, largely thanks to its wishbone forma­tion and multiple threats. 
Much like the offense Navy 
lastlime (2002) #7NDtops #15 Air Force in a battle of undefeated teams. Carlyle Holiday has a 53-yard TD run and a 1-yard run, and Ryan Grant runs for 190 yards on 30 canies with 1TD. 
FINAL: 
ND21 AF 14 

showed Notre Dame, Air tions from the Navy game Force employs a kill-you-with­would carry over, Irish coach speed offense, though the Charlie Weis offered senti­Falcons' formations are some­ments similar to Zbikowski's. what different. Air Force "It helps with half of their often uses a one-receiver for­package. The only problem is mation with a tight end on the [the Falcons] have another other side of the field. By whole half of the package. comparison, Navy played two One half of the package has a receivers far from the tackles lot of similarities to what on almost every play-and the Navy did, but they have a Falcons have run that forma­whole other package that tion, as well. Navy didn't 
Irish safety have," Weis 
..There's some
Tom Zbikowski said. said the contrast similarities to them Against the was so stark Midshipmen,
running the option, but
that most of the Zbikowski had
Navy definitely has got
few things he 14 tackles as he could take from a much different attack focused on con­the Navy game {than Air Force].,,, taining the 
and apply it to pitch man turn­this one were ing upfield on "fundamentals." Tom Zbikowski running plays. 
"There's some Irish safety But the senior similarities to have more pass-them running e o v e r a g e the option, but Navy definitely assignments this Saturday as has got a much different Air Force throws the ball attack [than Air Force]," he more, though not much, than said. "[The Falcons will] defi­Navy. And Zbikowski will have nitely use the tight end a lot to keep his eye on the Falcons more than Navy does [and] a starting tight end -6-foot-4, few more counters. So it's 240-pound Travis Dekker, actually a lot different than who has 10 percent of Air Navy's option attack." Force's receptions on the sea-
When asked what prepara-son. 

Nov. 18, 1995 #8ND44AF14 at Falcons Stadium Irish go on to play in Orange Bowl 

"They have tight ends in their system and they want to use them," Zbikowski said. "It can definitely help out in passing situations where [Air Force has] a little bigger body in there." 
Dekker and Falcons backup Chris Evans frustrate defenses by adding an extra blocker on the line of scrimmage who also releases on pass routes more than a quarter of the time he is on the field. 
But even with Air Force's aerial arsenal, the way to stop Falcons is to beat them on the 

-·ground. -· ---.. -·-· -·-.-··-·"··=-·-·. ··-. · 
Quarterback Shaun Carney has averaged 65 yards per game this season on nearly 17 carries a contest. 
''Their offense starts with Carney," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "He's the guy who makes their offense go." 
Chad Hall, the Falcons' 5­foot-1 0, 180-pound wingback from Georgia is Air Force's most dangerous threat with the ball in his hands. Hall has 594 yards on 107 attempts for a 5.6 yards-per-rush average to go along with five touch­downs and a long rush of 38 yards. 
But Notre Dame has more to 
worry about than just the speedsters who make their living on the outside. As teams have concentrated on pitches towards the sidelines beea use of the added tight end, the Falcons have exploit­ed weakness in the interior of defenses with their two bruis­ing fullbacks, each averaging more than 4 yards per carry. 
Backup Ryan Williams, a 5­foot-9, 215-pound product of Mesquite, Tex., has 332 yards on the season with a 4.4-yard average. Jacobe Kendrick, who has taken over the start-
ing-Job -i'runi ·"fVUUc:..uo·, vuL'Vt o 
with a 4.8 yards-per-carry average and 295 yards in seven games this season. 
"The two of them [Kendrick and Williams). you'd better stop them, tirst of all, because if not, they'll just hand it off to them all day and let them gash you for a while," Weis said. "You're going to have to play a ... technically sound. fundamental game with a high level of energy to get produc­tion [on defense]," Weis said. 
That's the challenge for the Irish. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Oct. 10, 1964 First Meeting ND34AF7 at Falcons Stadium 

1996 
AF20ND17 at NO Stadium FaIcons' last win 
. .
1n senes 

·, . 

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 10, 20062 

r ; I l  ....  , "' • .'.i' ...._~  -. ~-! G ! : I  '  { ...  
Come in to participating Cingular Wireless retail stores and get lightning-fast AT&T Yahoo!® High-Speed Internet  
Elkhart 189 W County Rd. 6, lin front of Wal-,".-1art) 1574) 262-]SlOt  Mishawaka/South Bend Univer<-ity Park Mall (located in the Food Courti (574; 243-8069t  Also available at: AT&Tt800) 613-9420 ------...•_....,.__(_.... i!'"'IIIIIUV"; ®RadioShack"  tOpen Sunday  

*Cingular also imposes monthly aRegulatory Cost Recovery Charge of up to $1.25 to help defray costs incurred in complying with State and Federal telecom regulation; State and Federal Universal Service charges: and surcharges for customer-based and revenue-based state 
!lilt~:~ 
·l""'l'!-:1ooo­

and local assessments on Cingular. These are not taxes or government-required charges. ""'"'.')c. 
-~\ 
:~--~~ 
·.... ~~"~ _,:

Limited-time offer. Other conditions and restrictions app~. See contract and rate plan brochure for details. Subscriber must live and have amailing address within Cingular's owned network coverage area. Up to $36 activation fee applies. Equipment price and availability may vary by 
~--;. -~· 

market and not be available from mdependent retailers. Early Termination Fee: None if cancelled in the first 30 thereafter $175. Some agents · additional fees. Sales tax calculated based on price of unactivated equipment. Rebate Debit Card: Prices of Motorola V365 






