

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Campus workers enter wage discussion 
University employees respond to CLAP's recent efforts to increase their hourly pay 
By KAREN LANGLEY Associate News Edicor 
Responding to the Campus Labor Action Project's escalating ell'orts to advocate for a $12.10 hourly wage for eampus employ­ees, Executive Vice President John Afl'leck-Graves issued a statement last week firmly defending the University's poli­cies. 
But his argument failed to sat­isfy many members of the group most eoncerned with the issue ­the workers. 
With the exception of workers who do not depend on their salary for finaneial stability, University employees inter­viewed Monday through 
Wednesday expressed dissatis­faction with their salaries and departmental treatment along with doubt that anything was about to change. 
"We believe that Notre Dame already provides a fair and just wage for employees," Affleck­Graves said in the statement. "We believe that. on close inspec­tion, both Notre Dame's wages and its compensation package meet not only the test of our marketplace, but also of our spe­cial obligations as a Catholic uni­versity." 
But Janice Owens, a supervisor at North Dining Hall who has been involved in worker's rights issues on a national level, said 
see CLAPIpage 9 

Walkers shed light on female violence 
Take Back the Night event joins members from all campuses to confront sexual assault 
took on a larger responsibility in planning the march with Saint Mary's, she said. 
"We really appreciate their efforts and are happy to work with them and Holy Cross stu­dents on the event," Pittman said. "When all campuses are working together, we feel a common bond is being formed to combat the violence of sexu­al assault." 
Saint Mary's students met at the Rock Garden and later gathered with other Take Back the Night participants at the 
see NIGHT/page 6 


By KATIE KOHLER News Writer 
Students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross joined in the Take Back the Night walk Wednesday -an event geared at bringing attention to the issue of vio­lence against women. 
Catherine Pittman, an advi­sor for Saint Mary's Campus Alliance for Rape Administration (CARE), said the event was "a way to show !victims] that they are not for­gotten." This year, Notre Dame 
Groups question fund allocations for fall '06 
By KATHLEEN MCDONNELL News Writer 
Despite an increase in student activities fees and money earned from The Shirt, not all student groups are seeing an increase in funds for next fall. 
The Council of Representatives (COR) approved the 2006-07 stu­dent union budget allocations of $481,243.06 Monday night. 
Allocating a limited budget to a diverse set of organizations is diffi­cult -especially since student organizations requested almost twice the amount of funding avail­able this year, Student Union treasurer Stephen Friend said. 
"This year's process was much longer and more comprehensive than pa<;t years," he said. 
Student groups submitted pro­posals for review several weeks in advance of the annual Financial Management Board's (FMB) allo­cation meeting, Friend said. This new method allowed FMB mem­bers more time to look over each budget and prepare questions for the representatives. 
While the figures make it look like some groups -such as the Hall President's Council (HPC) ­received vast increases while oth­ers stayed consistent, Friend said these distortions are due to reallo­cations. HPC was allocated $57,000 last year, and $12,000 of that figure was added during real­location. This year, HPC received $59,000 -almost its entire request. 
see CORlpage 8 

N DSMCOBSERVER.COM 
STUDENT SENATE 

Shappell to prolllote awareness 
Eating disorders will be focus of conference 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Ediwr 
In the first of three State of the Student Union addresses she will give this year, student body president Lizzi Shapp~ll announced plans Wednesday for a multi-faceted, campus­wide initiative to address eat­ing disorders at Notre Dame. 
Speaking at the final Student Senate meeting of the year, Shappell called for a "three to four day conference" -set to be held next winter -that will combine "presentations, roundtable discussions, keynote addresses and net­working sessions" on all types of eating disorders, including anorexia, bulimia, binge eating disorder and muscular dysmor­phia. 
"Eating disorders and body image issues have been unde­served for too long," Shappell said. "As a Catholic community we are called to serve the members of our community struggling with eating disor­ders. As a Catholic university, we can and will address these issues in an innovative way." 
Calling for a biopsychosocial approach to the issue, Shappell candidly delivered telling sta­tistics to senators about the prevalence of eating problems at the University. 
see SENATE /page I 0 


Seniors complete thesis projects 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
News Writer 
It must be that time of year again. 
Most students are quick to pay respect to those sleep­deprived, caffeine-overdosed, vampire-like seniors who accomplish writing the some­what mythical college thesis ­a 100-page project with innu­merable footnotes and annota­tions. 
Seniors said writing a thesis project -aside from being a demanding commitment ­can actually be an intellectual­ly rewarding experience and an opportunity to explore in detail the most fascinating theme imaginable in their respective field of study. 
"Writing a senior thesis can be a wonderful experience for the student because not only engage in a unique learning will his research and investi­process," Dean of the College gation lead to a deeper, more of Arts and Letters Mark complete understanding of his discipline, but he will also see THESIS/page 6 

r-----------------------------------------~-----­

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Stroke signs 
About this time last year, my father had a massive stroke. lin was 47 years old and had prnviously bnon in perfect hoalth-he was oven well-known for his athlntk physique. Unlike some strokes that an~ caused by a blood Claire Kelley dot, my father had a ran~ ruptun• in his 
Photo Editor
corrotod artery that 
Emeritus
blocked the blood to 
the right side of his 
brain. 
But tho worst part came after the ini­tictl stroke. lie was medieatod to encour­age the swelling in his brain to subside, but after two days, the neurosurgeon doeided to oporatP. In the first operation thoy rmnovod part of his skull, putting it in his stomach to keop the cells alive. But when tho swelling continued, they had to remove part of his brain. Miraeulously, he survivod and he is totally mentally intact, although physi­cally, his lnl't side is paralyzed. 
For tho two weeks of school! missed, I 
stayed in the hospital 24 hours a day. I 
stayod awake at night, fending my 
father ien chips and applying eold eom­
prnsses to his head to keep his blood 
prossurn down so that my mother could 
gnt a few hours of sloop in a chair next 
to his bod. 
Certain images an~ still burned in my memory -the tortuous drive horne from Notre Dame as my brother and I frantically contnrnplatnd what wo would find when we roached the hospitaiiCU, my grandparonts, aunts and uncles cry­ing and praying in the hospital chapel, my mother picking up the phone in the waiting room to hear tlw results of the brain surgery from the neurosurgeon, my father's bandaged head with blood draining out into a tube and the black and green scroon that showed my father's vital signs as they rose and fell from dangerous levels. 
Looking back, what is most frustrating for me is that my fathor experienced some of the warning signs of stroke. lie fp,lt numb on his left side after working out one day, and so my mother called tho paramedics. They suggested that he might havP. a pinehed nerve. Tho next day, my father chP.cked into thP. hospital overnight and was subjeetod to many tests, but since it was the weekend, they told him to come baek later in the week for an MHI. lie walked out of the hospi­tal the next morning, went home to take a nap, and had a stroke in his slP.ep. 
i\1:cording to the American Heart i\ssoeiation, stroke is the loading cause of long term disability in the United Stati)S. But for some types of stroke, a drug can be given to a victim in the first three hours that reverses the damage. My advien is to msearch hospitals in your area to determine which one has the best program for dealing with strokes. Cormet expertise is erueial. 
When I remember what my family went through a year ago, it all seems likn a seary seience fiction movie. I feel lurky every single day that my father is alivn and mentally himsnlf. Through his hard work in rehabilitation, he is eontin­ually improving physically. Chances are you will encounter stoke in your life­time. I hope you will be rnady to light it. 

Contact Claire Kelley at ckelley2@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
In the April 25 edirion ofThe Observer, rhe arricle emidcd "OHlcers approve future budger" misrakenly­said the Hall Presidem's Council (HPC) requested­funding totalling over $800,000. However, that amoum represented the total requests from all srudent union organizations, bur just HPC. HPC only requested $60,000. 

In the April 26 edirion ofThe Observer, Saint Mary's Cadet Lt. Col. Rachad Walters was incorrecdy referred w as Lt. Col. Rachael Warers. The Observer regrers rhese errors. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, April27, 2006 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE ANTOSTAL EVENT? 





Dan Amiri  Rachel Miller  Nicole Ruggirello  Emily Andreas  Lisa Lu  Katie McAnany  
freshman Alumni  freshman Breen-Phillips  sophomore Breen-Phillips  senior PW  junior Breen-Phillips  freshman Breen-Phillips  
''Trying to keep my girlfriend from binging on Quarter Dogs. ''  "Trying to get my roommate to leave the room to binge on Quarter Dogs at the eating contest."  "I haven't left my dorm room in eight days."  ''I'm really excitedfor karaoke. It'll be like London all over again.  "The Bake-a-Thon because I actually participated in it and baked 8o cookies, but it was cancelled. "  "I was looking forward to the BP-Badin Bake-a-Thon, but it got rained out."  


Students fingerpaint as part of a campuswide mural project in front of O'Shaughnessy Hall Wednesday. The event was part of this week's AnTostal activities. 
OFFBEAT 

Bra makers offer D-cup as bust sizes grow 
BEIJING -Bra produc­ers have been forced to offer bigger cup-sizes in China because improved nutrition is busting all previous chest measure­ment records. 
"It's so different from the past when most young women would wear A-or B-cup bras," Triumph brand saleswoman Zhang Jing told the Shanghai Daily from the Landmark Plaza of China's commer­cial hub. 
"You never expect those thin women to have such nice figures if they are 
TODAY 


not plastic." 

The report, seen on the daily's Web site Tuesday, said that the Hong Kong­based lingerie firm Embry Group no longer produces A-cups for larger chest circumferences and has increased production of C-, D-and E-cup bras to meet pressing demand. 
New York's graffiti law said to violate free speech 
NEW YORK -Seven young artists on Tuesday sued New York City over its strict anti-graffiti law, saying it violated their 
constitutional right  to  
free spee·ch.  
TONIGHT  FRIDAY  

The group, backed by fashion designer Mare Ecko, argued in federal court that the city went too far by banning people under 21 from possessing spray paint or broad­tipped markers. 
Gabriel Taussig, a lawyer for New York City, said the law "strikes a proper constitutional bal­ance between the First Amendment rights (to free speech) and the need to control the long-stand­ing plague of graffiti." 
Information compiled 
from  the  Associated  
Press.  
SATURDAY  

_, 
<
(,) 


.9 HIGH 63 
LOW 42 


51 40 



65 
43 
IN BRIEF 
Knott Hall will host its Knott on the Knoll concert Saturday at 6 p.m. in front of the dorm. Bands scheduled to perform include: The Junior Varsity, Exit the Ordinary, The Basement Stairs, Egon's Unicat and Loek Your Door. 
Assistant professor of political sdence Dan Lindley will give a lecture titled "Shoot First, Ask Questions Later. Preventive and Preemptive War" today at 
12:30 p.m. in C1 03 of the Hesburgh Center. 
Barbara Nicolosi, founder and director of Act One Inc., will give a lecture titled "Why Does God Care about Hollywood'? The Role of Entertainment in Human Life." The lecture will begin at 7::10 p.m. Thursday in 155 DeBartolo. 
The debate teams from leg­endary football rivals Notre Dame and USC square off for the first time at 4 p.m. Friday in the Decio Theatre of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The topic will be: "RESOLVED: That the University of Notre Dame should defeat the University of Southern California in the 2006 collegiate football eontest." 
The SMC Irish Dance Club will perform at 4::~o p.m. Saturday and 7:30p.m. Sunday in The Little Theater in Moreau Hall. 
The No. 17 Irish men's lacrosse team will face Ohio State at 3 p.m. Saturday at Moose Krause Field. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


62 40 


-----------------------------------, 
Thursday, April 27, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Legends chef appears on tnorning TV sho-w 
South Bend's WSJV Fox 28 news occasionally invites Giuseppe Macerata on "Wake Up!" 
By BRIDGET KEATING 
News Writer 
Lngends of Notre Dame -a facility that serves as a restau­rant, bar, alehouse, club and concert venue -can now include telnvision set in its list of uses. 
South Bend's WSJV Fox 28 news station has recently teamed with Legends chef Giuseppe Macerata in its three-hour long "Wake Up!" morning program. Legends general manager Aaron Perri said the collaboration began when the show asked Macerata to appear on a St. Patrick's Day cooking segment. "Wake Up!" has welcomed the Legends chef a total of four times. 
In anticipation for last week's Blue-Gold weekend. Macerata said he whipped up Blue and Gold wings in addition to tail­gate favorites on a grill outside the restaurant. Other segments on the show have featured themed meals showcasing After advancing through the have excellent signature dishes we strive for," Perri said. Legends special dishes. chef apprentice program and that showcase our kitchen's Although the morning pro­
"It's a great situation serving at various campus ven­ability." gram can lengthen the days for because they fill a segment ues -including the Morris Inn Macerata, whose career Macerata and Perri to nearly and we get tons of publicity," -he landed a position at began at his father's pizza 16 hours, both said the televi­Perri said. "We are a campus Legends. shop in Michigan, said his local sion project has been an enjoy­restaurant and our goal is to "I enjoy a challenge and fame has spurred jovial phone able experience. Perri said be craveable and successfully making anything -as long as calls from friends and family Legends would continue to col­compete with the chain casual it's done well, is healthy and and customers have laborate as long as Fox 28 is dining rooms like Houlihan's nourishing," he said. "[At responded positively as well. willing. and Friday's." Legends] we look anywhere "To see a dining room full of 
Macerata began his career at and use every possible people having a good time and Contact Bridget Keating at the University ten years ago. resource for new ideas. We enjoying their meals is what bkeating@nd.edu 


Historian 
a-warded for study 
Dochuk wins Nevins prize for dissertation 
Special to The Observer 
Darren Dochuk, who received his doctorate from the University of Notre Dame last year, has been awarded the annual Allan Nevins Prize for the best dissertation in the field of U.S. history. 
Dochuk's dissertation, titled "From Bible Belt to Sunbelt: Plain Folk Religion, Grassroots Politics and the Southernization of Southern California, 1939-1969" was directed by George Marsden, Francis A. McAnaney Professor of History at Notre Dame. 
In his dissertation, Dochuk articulated the grassroots ori­gins of the American religious right as that political move­ment developed in the decades after World War II in one of its most fertile settings: Orange County, Calif. It is considered an important interpretation of the origins of the religious right in California based on the demo­graphic trends seen in pat­terns of migrations, especially from Arkansas, Texas and Oklahoma. 

..-------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 27, 2006 

ND club pushes for nevv degree 
Proposed program in actuarial science would combine business, math 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
Students are often looking for new ways to improve the resources and programs that thn University offers -and members of the Actuarial Seience Club are hoping to do just that by encouraging Notre 
Dame to oiTnr a degree in actu­arial seicnce. 
The degree would benefit students who wish to seek careers as actu­aries after col­lege. An actuary is someone who determines financial risks that arc involved in pension plans, 11nancial portfo­

"Getting a job as an actuary is one of the highest-paying jobs that /students] can get coming out ofcollege. " 
Vijen Patel president Actuarial Science Club 
lios and insurance plans. The proposed degree would, there­fore, combine mathematics and business. 
Vijen Patel, who is president and eo-founder of the Actuarial Science Club, said that while Notre Dame currently offers some business classes that are 
relevant to an actuarial science degree, it is often dillicult for many mathematics majors in the College of Science to regis­ter for other elasses in the Mnndoza College of Business. 
"!Students) have trouble get­ting into business 

"We are trying to get this major {started/for future students who come to Notre Dame. " 
Vijen Patel president Actuarial Science Club 
the actuarial sci­ence degree at Notre Dame does not put its stu­dents at a disad­vantage. 
"There is a con­stant interest by actuarial firms and insurance companies, such as Allstate and State Farm, to interview stu­dents and give 
classes that they need for this major because they are in the College of Science," he said. "We are trying to build this degree so that more courses are available for this major." 
The mathematics depart­ment's Web site said approxi­mately 40 percent of students who graduate with math degrees take jobs as actuaries of technical analysts for insur­ance and consulting companies such as Allstate Insurance Company and William M. Mercer. 

"Getting a job as an actuary is one of the highest-paying jobs that [students) can get coming out of college," Patel 
said. 
Other colleges 
like the University of Michigan, University of Iowa, Ohio State University and Drake University -offer actuarial science pro­grams. Patel said universities that offer actuarial science majors not only have 

better access to courses appli­cable to their major, but also receive preparation for tests required for entrance into this field. 
Professor Matthew Gursky, director of undergraduate studies in the mathematics department, said not having 
presentations to students [seeking positions as actuar­ies(," Gursky said. "Given the success of students in the past, I do not think that students are at a profound disadvantage." 
The Actuarial Science Club met with Gursky as well as mathematies department ehair William Dwyer to discuss the possibility of incorporating the degree at Notre Dame. 
"The math department has been really cooperative in working with [the Actuarial Seience Club(," Patel said. 
Patel, who is a sophomore finance and mathematics dou­ble major, said he and other students will be able to pursue careers as actuaries without the specialty degree. He hopes, however, that the club's efforts to encourage this major at Notre Dame will help other students in years to come. 
"We are trying to get this major [started] for future stu­dents who eome to Notre Dame," he said. 
Although a final decision has not yet been reached about whether or not the degree will be offered in Notre Dame's math department, Gursky said creating this major may require having to change the course requirements to keep up with changing exams. Students who wish to pursue this career are required to pass a series of exams, and the formats of these exams can ehange from year to year. 
At present, the University does not offer the classes would be necessary for this degree. The Aetuarial Science Club has been working with the math department and the Mendoza College of Business to encourage them to offer these classes in the future. 
In addition to their efforts to bring more actuarial scienee courses to Notre Dame, the elub also spreads awareness about the career and supplies study manuals for tests that are required to become an actuary. The Actuarial Scienee Club is also working on a report, which they plan to sub­mit to the math department to continue efforts to raise aware­ness of this major. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 
Students w-ill receive College Tow-n survey 
Project could break ground as soon as fall 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 

Students tired of trying to aceess off-eampus restaurants without a car and frustrated by the high priees of toiletries at the Huddle may soon lind solutions within walking dis­tance of their own dorm. 
Notre Dame student body president Lizzi Shappell, for­mer student body president Dave Baron, former Student Senate Committee on Residence Life chair Mark 
Seiler and sen­ior business major Brett Hummel have teamed up to grant students the opportunity to share what they would like to see in the forthcoming College Town development. Hummel said the project 

"The whole idea Development behind [the will occur first on lands south
development] was 
of campus,kind ofto between Angela revitalize the entire Boulevard and 
Napoleon
neighborhood." 
Boulevard. Hummel said Brett Hummel there will be 
senior 

between ten 
could break ground as early as fall 2006. 
After hearing about devel­opment projeets taking place south of campus, the group brainstormed a means to gather student input about what they would like to see in the College Town so that the feedback could later be pre­sented to developers. 
Shappell, Baron, Seiler and Hummel met with marketing professor Tim Gilbride and produced the College Town survey that will be e-mailed to students this week. The anonymous survey takes about ten minutes to complete and will ask questions regard­ing preferenees in clothing stores, clubs and bars, enter­tainment, coffee shops, gro­cery and drug stores and household and dorm supplies. 
The group will present sur­vey results first to Executive Viee President John Affleck­Graves and Director of Asset Management and Heal Estate Development Gregory P. 1-Iakanen, and then to the pro­ject's developer, who will be announced within a month. Hummel hopes results will also be released to the stu­dent body. 
"The administration has been very supportive of help­ing us get what the students want," he said. "Notre Dame won't own any of the land, but [the University) will be talking to the developer to see 
what they 
want." 

and 15 stores 
going into this 
region. 

This first commercial dis­trict will be part of several other areas around the University that will be or have already been refurbished, ineluding the homes on Notre Dame Avenue that house many professors. Plans include areas that will ulti­mately become housing for young professionals as well, Hummel said. 
"The whole idea behind !the 
development] was kind of to 
revitalize the entire neighbor­
hood," he said. 

Four undergraduate foeus groups held earlier this year at McGlinn Hall and Knott Hall demonstrated "a lot of interest in something compet­itive with the lluddle -more along the lines of a market­place," Hummel said. He also expeets a "fusion of some fast food restaurants and some unique mom and pop cafes." 
"(The College Town will bel adding a whole other dimen­sion -you won't have to go to Reekers anymore," Hummel said. "If you're really lucky, you can go to Chipotle." 

Hummel anticipates the College Town will have a simi­lar atmosphere to commercial distriets at the University of California-Los Angeles and the University of Michigan­Ann Arbor -somewhere "you can hang around [and] kind of chill." The stores will be along the sidewalk to cre­ate a "town square type of atmosphere," he said. 
"[The College Town] offers to a whole different market than Grape Hoad," Hummel said. 
Hummel said students who take the survey "don't have to fit everything into a model" and ean offer input about anything they would want to see around campus. 
"The more people we get to do the survey, the more impressive it will be to the developer and the better chance we have of getting the stores we want," he said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 


A concert of Indian Classical Music--Dhrupad 
featuring 
Umakant and Ramakant Gundecha-VOCAL 
accompanied by 
Akhilesh Gundecha -Pakhawaj 
Sunday, April 30, 2006 7:30p.m. 
t tlie .91.utfitorium, :Jlesburgli Center for Internationa[ Studies, V.niversit!J of 9-.[__otre 'Dame 
Sponsored by: South Asian Studies Program Office of International Student Services and Activitiess The Asian Indian Classical Music Society of Michiana 
ND/SMC Faculty & Staff: $5 Students: Free Contact: Amitava Dutt (631-7594; 273-0928) 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, April 27, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WlRE SERVJCES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bombers attack Sinai peacekeepers 
CAIHO. Egypt-Two suidde bombers tried to attack international peacekeepers and police in the Sinai Peninsula on Wednesday, blowing themselves up just two days after nearly simultaneous bombings killed at least 21 people at the Sinai beach resort of Dahab. 
Egyptian Interior Minister Habib el·Adly said all the blasts this week were linked to terror attacks at two other Sinai resorts last year an~n 2004. 
"Tho information we have indicates that (tho porpotrators) are Sinai Bedouin, and the latest operations are linked to the previous attacks," el-Adly told statn television, refer­ring to the deadly bombings in Sharm el­Sheik last July and Taba in October 2004. 
Eager to avoid damage to Sinai's vital tourist trade by linking al-Qaida to the bombings, Egyptian authorities have blamed Bedouin tribesmen for past attacks. But some outside intelligence officials say groups linked to Osama bin Laden's terror network are the more likely suspects. 
Detainee shows court mangled hand 
GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, Cuba ­Holding up a scarred, mangled hand, an alleged al-Qaida explosives instructor told a 
U.S. military court Wednesday his transfer to a maximum security unit has made his life in the Guantanamo Bay prison more difficult. 
Sufyian Barhoumi, who lost four fingers and damaged his thumb in a land mine explosion in Afghanistan, said he struggles to use the sink and toilet in the prison's Camp Five. He also said air conditioning and the loss of outdoor recreation time has wors­ened the pain in his hand. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

World religious leaders meet in D.C. 
WASIIINGTON -Religious leaders from a broad swath of worldwide faiths met Wednesday at Georgetown University, mark­ing the first time the annual interfaith forum has been held in the United States since it was started 20 years ago by Pope John Paul II. 
While the goal of the two-day International Prayer for Peace is not to draft policies, organizers hope it will foster greater ties and communication between major faiths that come into contact more frequently -not always peacefully -in an increasingly globalized world. 
This year's panel discussions reflect that focus. They include the role of religion in combatting AIDS, poverty and genocide, and in resolving conflicts between faiths. Religiously motivated terrorism was also a central theme because of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks and ensuing war on terror. 
Court debates executing killers 
WASHINGTON -Supreme Court justices clashed on Wednesday over how states exe­cute killers, with one court member saying current lethal-injection drugs would not be used on cats and dogs and a second arguing that executions do not have to be pain-free. 
The court blocked Florida, at the last minute, from executing Clarence Hill in January, as Hill lay on a gurney with IV lines in his arms. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Bodies of mother, two children found 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. -Police officers found the bodies of a mother and her two children in their locked home Wednesday after family members had not heard from them in days. 
Investigators believed the bodies had been in the house at least a day, city police spokesman Brian Talsma said. 
"There is blood in the home, in various places," Talsma said while detectives searched the home several hours after the bodies were discovered. 

Rove appears before grand jury 
Former White House aid makes fifth appearance in CIA leak investigation 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Top White House aide Karl Rove made his fifth grand jury appearance in the Valerie Plame affair Wednesday, undergoing several hours of question­ing about a new issue that has come to light since the last time he testified. 
Special Counsel Patrick Fitzgerald declined to com­ment at the conclusion of the grand jury session. Rove appeared at ease as he left the U.S. courthouse, joking to journalists to "move to the back" as the White House aide, his lawyer and several reporters entered an eleva­tor to leave the building. 
A week ago, Rove, the 
architect of Bush's election 
victories, gave up his policy 
duties at the White House. 
He is returning to a full­
time focus on politics with 
Republicans facing major 
problems in the upcoming 
midterm elections. 
Wednesday's session is believed to be only the ~ec­ond time Fitzgerald has met with a new grand jury examining questions left unanswered in the leaking of Plame's CIA identity. The only other time Fitzgerald was seen going before the new panel was Dec. 7. 
The previous grand jury looking into the CIA leak with Cooper. Rove says ed. 2003, both the columnist expired Oct. 28, the day it he'd forgotten about his One legal expert, and Cooper wrote stories indicted Vice President conversation with Cooper. Washington lawyer Stanley identifying Plame as a CIA Dick Cheney's chief of staff Rove's legal problems Brand, says Rove's latest officer. on five counts of perjury, stem from the fact that it grand jury appearance is The exposure of her CIA obstruction and lying to the was more than a year into an ominous sign for the employment came little FBI. the CIA leak investigation White House aide rather more than a week after her 
The only new issue in the before he revealed the than an indication the husband, former U.S. 
CIA leak probe known to Cooper conversation. probe is coming to an end. Ambassador Joseph 
involve Rove is a contact Rove "testified voluntarily "I don't think you need to Wilson, accused the Bush 
his lawyer, Robert Luskin, and unconditionally at the drag a guy before a grand administration of manipu­
had with Time magazine request of Special Counsel jury to wrap up," said lating prewar intelligence 
reporter Viveca Novak. Patrick Fitzgerald to Brand. "Rove is testifying to exaggerate an Iraqi 
The contact is important explore a matter raised in an investigation in which nuclear threat. 
because during it, the Time since Mr. Rove's last a White House aide has Robert Novak is not 
reporter told Luskin that appearance," Luskin said already been indicted for related to Viveca Novak. 
Rove might have disclosed in a statement. "Mr. lying." Brand was general Other unfinished busi­
Plame's CIA status in 2003 Fitzgerald has affirmed counsel to the House under ness in the probe focuses 
to another Time reporter, that he has made no deci­Democratic Speaker on the source who provid­
Matt Cooper. sion concerning charges." Thomas P. 'Tip" O'Neill Jr. ed Washington Post 
The Luskin-Novak con­According to Luskin, from 1976 to 1983. reporter Bob Woodward 
versation occurred many Fitzgerald has advised that Several days after Rove's information about Plame, 
months before Rove belat­Rove is not a target of the conversations with conser­whose CIA identity was 
edly revealed to the prose­investigation. A target is vative columnist Robert leaked to Novak in July 
cutor that he had spoken someone likely to be indict-Novak and Cooper in July 2003. 

IRAQ 

Rice, Rumsfeld make suprise Iraq trip 
on the scene spelled it out. Army spent a day meeting with Iraqi
Associated Press 

Gen. George Casey, the top U.S. politicians and U.S. military and 
BAGHDAD -Symbolism speaks military commander, said Iraq's diplomatic advisers in the capital volumes in the world of diplomacy. success in forming a new govern­city. Rice called the priorities and So the mere sight of America's top ment might allow the U.S. to with­commitment of Iraq's newly two foreign policy officials calling draw some of its troops from the selected prime minister, Nouri al­on Iraq's new leaders sent the war zone later this year. Maliki, "refreshing and really message loud and clear -we're We are seeing the situation a lit­heartening." behind you and we want your gov­tle dearer, I'd say," as a result of The double-barreled show of ernment to succeed. the latest political progress, Casey support for Iraq's first permanent 
And in case the subtext of told reporters. "And the dearer I democratic government was Wednesday's unannounced visit by see it the better I can make my meant to resonate in Iraq and Secretary of State Condoleezza recommendations" about with­among Americans, whose frustra­Rice and Defense Secretary drawals. tion with the war effort has helped Donald H. Rumsfeld was unclear, "I came away most encouraged," drive President Bush's poll num­the top U.S. military commander Rumsfeld said after he and Rice bers to new lows. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 27, 2006 

New Look. Better Lifestyle. Still Closest to Campus. 
r-----------------------------------------~
•Newly Remodeled You're Invited for Free Food, Drinks
•Walk to Campus 

Rent from 
and Desserts!!! 



Thesis 
continued from page I 
It must be that time of year again. 
Most students are quick to pay respect to those sleep­deprived, caffeine-overdosed, vampire-like seniors who accomplish writing the some­what mythical college thesis ­a 100-page project with innu­merable f(JOtnotes and annota­
tions. 
Seniors said writing a thesis project -aside from being a demanding com­mitment -can actually be an intellectually rewarding expe­rinnen and an opportunity to explore in detail the most fasci­nating theme imaginable in their respective lield of study. 
"Writing a 

senior thesis can be a wonder­ful experience for the student because not only will his research and investigation lead to a deeper, more complete understanding of his discipline, but hn will also engage in a unique learning process," Dean of the College of Arts and l.ntt(1rs Mark Hoehn said. 
Senior tlwsis projects can range from 50 to 100 pages in length. and students often begin preparing them at the beginning of the spring semes­ter -if not in the fall. Some dnpartments, like the history department, have sponsor stu­
"For students
"What was great 

interested in
about this 

attending gradu­experience is that I ate school, the intellectual expe­
finally had the 

rience of writing
opportunity to work 

a thesis is on something I immensely valu­able," history
personally found 

department
interesting and 

chair John relevant." McGreevy said. Students who apply to gradu­
Noelle Teske 

ate school in the
senior 

dents who begin research dur­ing the summer, or in other locations such as London, Poland and Rome. 
The only students required to write a thesis are those who are part of the Arts and Letters Honors Program -but that does not mean they are alone in the endeavor. Most depart­ments in the College of Arts and Letters offer students the option of writing a thesis proj­ect in exchange of credit for their work and the benefit of graduating with honors in 
their discipline. 
years following 
graduation can boast having completed an undergraduate thesis -which is highly commendable, he said. 
"It feels great knowing I've completed something that is potentially publishable," said senior Erica Williams, who recently finished an anthropol­ogy thesis. 
Williams' thesis project will be featured in an upcoming issue of the "American Journal of Physical Anthropology." 
Senior Noelle Teske wrote two thesis projects -one in psychology and the other in philosophy. 
"What was great about this experience is that I finally had the opportunity to work on something I personally found interesting and relevant," she said. 
Senior Michael Vanden Boom said his thesis on mathemati­cal logic gave him "a deeper understanding of mathemat­ics." He hopes he can share this knowledge with students when he participates in the Alliance for Catholic Education program after graduation. 
Art students also have an opportunity to share their final projects with others. 
"Part of being an artist is not just creating the artwork, but also exhibiting it," art depart­ment chair Dennis Doordan said. "The tine arts program culminates every year with a display in the Snite Museum." 
The exhibit includes a vari­ety of works including ceram­ics, photography, paintings, graphic and industrial designs and sculpture. 
In every work, students had the opportunity to explore their individuality and put to work the skills and techniques acquired in the previous four years. Projects deal with such themes as the discovery of self­identity, society's expectations and spirituality. 
In other colleges, a similar 11exibility is evidenced in the wide range of thesis topics selected by students. 
Noteworthy projects from previous years include such diverse topics as "A Woman's Fight for Suffrage in Britain in 1914," "Genetics of Speciation in the Malaria Mosquito," "The 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
enjoy," Pittman said. "Women won't have to fear the dark, but

Night 
will feel secure in a community continued from page I that has rejected violence against women." 
Take Back the Night -which Students from Notre Dame, has been held on campus for Saint Mary's and Holy Cross more than ten years -has a joined in the Take Back the long and storied tradition, with Night walk Wednesday -an marches originating in Europe event geared at bringing atten­during the 1970s. The first tion to the issue of ,violence United States march was held in against women. San Francisco in 1978. 
Catherine Take Back the Pittman, an advi­Night marches
"Too many ofour

sor for Saint typically occur in Mary's Campus women and men the month of April Alliance for Hape are being violated in conjunction Administration with National
and all too often

{CARE). said the Sexual Assault event was "a way the perpetrators Awareness Month. to show [victims) are those who we Saint Mary's that they are not CAHE vice presi­
are in classes with. 

forgotten." This dent Jen Hanlon year, Notre Dame socialize with and said she has been took on a larger trust." to four Take Back responsibility in the Night walks planning the during her time at
Jen Hanlon

march with Saint the College, and Mary's, she said. vice president sevon in all. "We really CARE "Each march I 
appreciate their efforts and are happy to work with them and Holy Cross students on the event," Pittman said. "When all campuses are working together, we feel a common bond is being formed to combat the violence of sexual assault." 
Saint Mary's students met at the Rock Garden and later gath­ered with other Take Back the Night participants at the Grotto. The tri-eampus group then marched around both campus­es. The event concluded with a speak-out, which allowed vic­tims of sexual assault to come forward and share their stories. 
"Our hope is that one day, the night will be safe for all to have participated 
in has left me feeling more empowered and moved, as well as frustrated because it is still necessary to hold these events in our com­munity." Hanlon said. 
Pittman said violent attacks occur "every year on campus" that make the event necossary. 
"It would be nice if sexual assault was not a problem on the campuses, but in reality, it is a major problem," Hanlon said. "Too many of our women and men are being violated and all too often the perpetrators are those who we are in classes 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohieO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
• Sparkling Pool 


$560*
• Covered Parking Up to 1/2 Month Free Rent! 

(888)-278-5962 171 0 E. Turtle Creek Dr 
EQUAL HOUSING OPPORTUNITY 

South Bend, IN 4663 7 
*Prices subject to change 


4/29 4/30 5/2 5/5 5/6 5/7 5/13 
Check out our Newly Remodeled Homes! 
Turtlecreek-IN@aimco.com www.CampusCribs.net 
2:00-5:00 



12:00-5:00 3:00-6:00 3:00-6:00 2:00-5:00 12:00-5:00 9:00-5:00 

-------------------------. 

Thursday, April 27 , 2006 
MARKET RECAP 







J!',:S .. 
10.151.13 -91.34 
(.\ 
1.1}59 


~i!i~ti.W.ilf~IJ.II-fi,{I'IIBBfl 
-·lr'f.IIM!i;~~llif!·~~i~t~Silllll&f-­
S&P .500 1. 1:5 1.74 -10.36 
~RBIIM'I}i'f::fJll1~1imMr!l~l'!;llli~~'iflll~ili 
fTSE. IOO(l.oodon) 4, 84:5.:50 -19.4-0 
COMF:".NY %CH.".NGEI $GAIN I Pf\JC E 
~.SCI'lQ OOTF: S E:F: I~·~ -0. 9"2. .o.n l:. .ru 
INHL CP IINTC) -O.l8 -0.05' "2.~ .l "2. 
SIF:IUS SATE:LLIH F: !SIP. I) -:.."2. ~ -0. "2.1 ~.81 
t·u::::IK:Js() ~ TcP II1S ~ T) -0.9"2. -0. "2.~ "2.<1.1l 
ciSCCI m ~ rc;.::::()) -I. I<I -0. ID 11."2.8 
T.reanre: 

lO. Y£:.0:0.11: IK:IND -1-0. "2.<1 -1-0.11 <1.:. .l1 10. Y£:.(>,1: ~-K)T E: -1-0.~8 -1-0.Il <11.l1 :.-YEA~': ~TE: -1-0.<Il -1-0.11 l9.:.<1 l-110~H t-1 BLL -1-0.11 -1-0.ID "2.8.:. "2. 
-O.l1 :.<1."2.0 (;OLD I$'T~ o::a.) -1-L"2.0 <ll9.00 P()r, 0:. BE:LLIES ~..;ib.) -1-I. I:, 8"2.. I~ 
IN BRIEF 
Apple to recycle computers for free 
SAN JOSE -Apple Computer Inc. will soon adopt an environmentally friendly twist for buy­ers of new Macintosh computers by offering to recycle their old computers for free. 
The Cupertino-based company said its expand­ed take-back offer will begin in June. U.S. cus­tomers who buy a new Mac through the Apple store online or any Apple retail store will receive free shipping and recycling of their old machines. 
Currently, Apple retail stores accept old iPod music players for free recycling. In addition, Cupertino residents may drop off old Macs at company headquarters, while others pay a $30 recycling fee to drop off or ship their computers. 
Environmental advocacy organizations that have criticized Apple's recycling initiatives in the past applauded the computer maker's expanded program, saying it is now closer in line with those of other major PC makers, notably Hewlett-Packard Co. and Dell Inc. 
But the environmental groups contend Apple still needs to do more and will present a propos­al at Apple's shareholder meeting Thursday call­ing for the company to study ways to improve recycling. 
Microsoft spins off social network tech 
SEATTLE -More than two years after Microsoft Corp. began promoting Wallop, its technology for social networking, the software company is spinning off the project to a new startup company. 
Redmond-based Microsoft touted Wallop at a high-profile corporate event in late 2003. But the company has been secretive about the project since then, even as startups like Friendster and MySpace have gained major traction among users. 
On Wednesday, Microsoft said it is spinning off the technology to a separate startup, Wallop Inc.. to be based in the Silicon Valley. A product, however, won't launch until later this year. 
Microsoft remains mum on details, only prom­ising that it will give people more sophisticated ways for helping people find one another and will let people interact more like they would in the real world. Current social networking servic­es tend to link people online based on things like a similar taste in music or common acquaintanc­es. 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 

MediaNews buys four papers 
Publisher's aquisition will strengthen presence in Northern California 
Associated Press  
NEW  YORK  - Media­ 
News Grou lnc.publisher of  
The Denver Post and other  
newspapers, is acquiring  
four newspapers from The  
McClatchy Co. for $1 billion  
in cash with backing from  
Hearst Corp., another pub­ 
lishing company.  
The four papers  - the  
San Jose Mercury News, the  
Contra Costa Times, the  
Monterey County Herald  
and the St. Paul Pioneer  
Press  - are  currently  
owned by Knight Ridder  
Inc., which McClatchy is in  
the process of buying.  
The deal announced late  
Wednesday will strengthen  
MediaNews's presence in  
northern California, where  
it already  owns  several  
papers in the San Francisco  
Bay Area. MediaNews is a  
privately  held  company  
based in Denver and-run by  
William Dean Singleton.  
The  four  papers  are  
among the 12 Knight Ridder  
properties that McClatchy  
has said it intends to sell  
since  they  don't  meet  
McClatchy's acquisition· cri­ 
teria, which include being  
located in rapidly growing  
markets.  
MediaNews' interest in  
the newspapers had been AP  
widely known. The three CEO William Dean Singleton visits the Contra Costa Times in Walnut Creek, Calif,  
northern California papers on Wednesday.  
would complement the com­ 
pany's existing holdings,  Minneapolis.  Asked how he thought the  paper. "He was not present­ 
which include The Oakland  McClatchy  said  deal would affect. Bay Area  ing himself as a slash and  
Tribune  and  the  Marin  Wednesday  that  the  journalism, Singleton said,  burn farmer," Palmer said.  
Independent  JournaL  Department of Justice told  "I hope it will make it bet­ "In many respects, he just  
MediaNews owns a number  the company it would only  ter."  sounded like a hard-nosed  
of newspapers in geograph­ seek additional information  Knight Ridder CEO Tony  businessman"  
ic clusters, which helps  regarding the twin city area,  Ridder said he will closely  The agreement calls for  
reduce  production  and  indicating that regulators  monitor how the deal affects  MediaNews to acquire the  
other costs and also allows  didn't see other antitrust  tl}e Mercury News :---his  San Jose Mercury News and  
for group advertising sales.  concerns with the Knight  hometown paper. "I think  the Contra Costa Times,  
"These were the newspa­ Ridder takeover.  Dean will do a good job,"  which will then be folded  
pers that excited us  the  As he prepared to leave  Ridder said outside the  into  the  California  
most about Knight Ridder,"  the Mercury News for  a  Mercury News. "I have his  Newspaper Partnership, an  
Singleton said in a  state­ meeting at the Contra Costa  cell  phone  and  e-mail  entity in which it has a 54  
ment, calling the deal "a  Times, Singleton said no  addresses and if I see any­ percent stake.  
wonderful opportunity at a  layoffs  are  currently  thing I don't like I plan to let  The other two stakehold­ 
fair price."  plaimed at the Bay area  him know."  ers  in  the  partnership,  
McClatchy would have  papers. He had earlier told  After weeks of anxiety,  industry leader Gannett Co.  
faced antitrust difficulties  the Mercury News staff that  Mercury News employees  and  the  privately  held  
owning the St. Paul, Minn.  MediaNews generally leaves  seemed to be feeling better  Stephens  Media  Group,  
paper since it already owns  cost-cutting decisions to  after  meeting  with  have agreed to contribute  
the Star Tribune in the  each paper's management  Singleton, said Griff Palmer,  their share of paying for the  
neighboring  city  of  ·teams.  a  database editor for the  two papers, according to a  

Delphi still negotiating with unions 
Associated Press motive conference board, said the have done and haven't done and what 
union is not in negotiations this week we plan on doing to keep Delphi viable 
DETROIT -With less than two because it is providing depositions to and competitive," Sutton said. He said weeks to go before Delphi Corp. plans Delphi attorneys as part of the auto he expects talks with Delphi to resume to ask a federal judge to tancel its supplier's bankruptcy case. Sutton next week. union contracts, the auto supplier is said eight local shop chairmen and Delphi spokesman Lindsey Williams still negotiating with its major unions union leaders are meeting with Delphi confirmed the company is talking to and General Motors Corp. over wage attorneys this week· in Troy, where the communications workers branch cuts. Delphi is headquartered. . as well as its other major unions, 
Delphi's second-largest labor union Sutton said those local leaders also including the United Auto Workers, confirmed Wednesday that it's still in prepared documents for the court last which represents the majority of talks with the company. Union execu­week that argue against the wage cuts Delphi's U.S. hourly workers. But not tive Robert Sutton made the comments Delphi has proposed as part of its all the unions are getting equal time. Wednesday after a media report sug­reorganization. The communications Wayne Ranick, a spokesman for the gested the International Union of workers branch represents about United Steelworkers, said the union Electronic Workers-Communications 8,000 of Delphi's 33,000 U.S. hourly hasn't talked to Delphi in about two Workers of America had broken off workers. weeks but hasn't formally ended nego­talks because of a lack of progress. "The declarations say to the judge tiations. The steelworkers union rep­
Sutton, secretary of the union's auto-and to the opposing parties what we resents about 1,000 Delphi workers. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, April 27, 2006 
COR 
continued from page 1 
Despite an inernasn in student activities fees and money Emrnnd from The Shirt, not all student ).,>Toups aro seeing an increa.o.;e in funds lor next fall. 
The Council of Bepresentativns (COH) approved the 2006-07 stu­dent union budget alloeations of $4X1,24:~.06 Monday night. 
Allocating a limited budget to a divnrse sot of organizations is dif:· ficult -espedally since student organizations rnquested almost twiee tJm amount of funding avail­able this year, Student Union troasurer SLE~phnn Friend said. 
"This year's process was much longer and morn .eomprnhensive than p<L<;t years," he said. 
Student groups submitted pro­posals fi1r revinw several weeks in advance of the annual Finandal Managmnent Board's (FMBI allo­cation mneting, Friend said. This new nwthod allowed FMB mem­bers more time to look over each budget and prepare questions lor the reprosentatives. 
While the figures make it look like some ).,'TEmps -such as the Hall Presidont's Council (IIPC) ­received va.o.;t inerna.<>es while oth­nrs stayed consistent. l:"riend said these distortions are due to reallo­cations. II PC was allocated $57,000 last year, and $12,000 of that l'igure was added during realloeation. This year, IIPC reeeived $59,000 -almost its entire roqunst. 
IIPC eo-president Bryan Lowery said waiting for reallocation money "delays funding for half of a year" and "the programs that go unfunded as a result are the new evenL<>." 
Since II PC funds traditional 
campus favorites first -like the Keenan REwiew, Fisher Regatta and Keough Chariot Race -other dorms trying to implement new events have limnd it difficult to do so, he said. 
"I !all governments are simply hesitant to put on events that have never been tried before if IIPC eannot guarantee funding," Lowery said. "The postponement of alloeating 20 percent of JIPC's budget until the spring semester leaves us unable to fund new eampus-wide events in the fall." 
With this year's up front allot­mont of money, however, IIPC has the means to grant funds to both traditional favorites in addition to new events in tJm tall. 
"IIPC has an excellent track record of working with the clubs and the Student Union Board," Lowery said. "No matter which budget is crndited with additional funding, we will all work together to make sure our essential pro­gramming is provided tor." 
The FMB was able to allot IIPC -and other organizations ­more money up front because of an inernased projection lor Shirt revenue and a $15 increase in student activities fees, Friend said at Monday's COH meeting. 
Another group reeeiving addi­tional money is the Student Union Board (SUB}. SUB manager Patriek Vassel said the increased funding was due to a successful year. 
"SUB had one of our most suc­cessful years in a long time with two suceessful concerts, sold out comedy shows and dozens of other events serving thousands of students," Vassel said. "I believe the increased funding re11ects the quality of SUB evento.; and the responsible spending of our allo­eation in the pa.o.;t year." 
While Vassel praised the FMB's "outstanding job" of performing "one of the most difficult tasks on campus in allocating a limited money to student groups," he voiced some concern over such a large portion of the student activi­ty fee increase being alloeated to the new College Readership pro­gram. 
Vassel said though he will wait until the program is implemented before passing judgment, he won­ders if the money might have been better used in other ways. 
"In the context of $81,500 !the cost of the College Readership Program] of student funds that could bring a huge never level of concerts to campus, or be used to attract the most popular comedi­<J,ns available, or a variety of other programs Notre Dame students constantly indicate demand for, it's a very big deal," Vassel said. "I hope those newspapers are worth the funding Student Government has claimed for them." 
The Club Coordination Council (CCC} expressed similar concern. Clubs and organizations were allotted 33 percent of the rev­enue, plus an additional $32,000 in the allocation, totaling $305,000. The CCC is in charge of allocating its funds to over 200 student groups on campus -stu­dent groups whose requests total $481,000-and not all needs can be met. 
This-year, the Student Senate voted to decrease the dubs and organizations percentage of rev­enue money from 36.75 percent in order to accommodate for the College Readership Progran1. • 
With favorable Shirt sales, the CCC may end up with the same amount it had last year, president Kerry Kilbourne said. However, 
• Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 
Se~ate panel: FEMA should be abolished 
Agency under fire in wake of Katrina 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The nation's beleaguered disaster response agency should be abolished and rebuilt from scratch to avoid a repeat of multiple government failures exposed by Hurricane Katrina, a Senate inquiry has concluded. 
Crippled by years of poor leadership and inadequate funding, the Federal Emergency Management Agency cannot be fixed, a bipartisan investigation says in recommendations to be released Thursday. 
Taken together, the 86 pro­posed reforms suggest the United States is still woefully unprepared for a disaster such as Katrina with the start of the hurricane season a little more than month away. 
"The United States was, and is, ill-prepared to respond to a catastrophic event of the mag­nitude of Hurricane Katrina," the recommendations warn. "Catastrophic events are, by their nature, difficult to imagine and to adequately plan for, and the existing plans and training proved inadequate in Katrina." 
The recommendations, obtained Wednesday by The Associated Press, are the prod­uct of a seven-month investiga­tion to be detailed in a Senate report to released next week. It follows similar inquiries by the House and White House and comes in an election year in which Democrats have seized on Katrina to attaek the Bush administration. 
President Bush will visit Louisiana and Mississippi ­which bore the brunt of Katrina's wrath -on Thursday. 
The inquiry urges yet another overhaul of the embattled Homeland Security Department -FEMA's parent agency ­which was ereated three years ago and already has undergone major restructuring of duties and responsibilities. 
It proposes creating a new agency, called the National Preparedness and Hesponse Authority, that would plan and carry out relief missions l'or domestic disasters. Unlike now, the authority would have a direct line of communieation with the president during major crises, and any dramatic euts to its budget or staffing levels would have to be approved by Congress. 
It would also oversee efl'orts to protect eritical infrastructure such as buildings, roads and power systems, as well as Homeland Security's medical officer. But the inquiry calls for keeping the agency within Homeland Security, warning that making it an independent office would cut it oiT from resources the larger depart­ment could provide. 

Attention Graduating Seniors!! Notre Datne's Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring ~dtnissions Counselors this spring! As part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff, the counselor is expected to make an important contribution to the recruitment and selection ofthe first-year class by n1anaging relations with the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel, communication within the geographic area, assessment and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual information sessions on catnpus. Among our candidates, we will seek a Latino Recruitment Coordinator. Fluency in Spanish will be strongly preferred. Additional responsibilities will be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and strong familiarity with all aspects ofstudent life at Notre Dame. Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the willingness to work long hours, including nfany evenings and Saturday mornings. Preferred start date is July 1, 2006. Please complete the Human Resources on-line application to be considered: Requisition #020060193  


Thursday, April27, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
able to have the better things in from her own job but also from has since changed, Berglund said noted a meeting held in life. approximately five months of employees are desperately LaFortune was advertised as
CLAP 
continued from page 1 
Hesponding to the Campus Labor Action Project's esealating efforts to advocate for a $12.10 hourly wage for campus employees, Exeeutive Vice President John Affleck-Graves issued a state­ment last week firmly defending the University's policies. 
But his argument failed to sat­isfy many members of the group most concerned with the issue ­the workers. 
With the exception of workers who do not depend on their salary for financial stability, University employees interviewed Monday through Wednesday expressed dissatisfaction with their salaries and departmental treatment along with doubt that anything was about to change. 
"We believe that Notre Dame already provides a fair and just wage for employees," Affleck­Graves said in the statement. "We believe that, on close inspec­tion, both Notre Dame's wages and its compensation package meet not only the test of our marketplace, but also of our spe­cial obligations as a Catholic uni­versity." 
But Janice Owens, a supervisor at North Dining Hall who has been involved in worker's rights issues on a national level, said the University administration is not sympathetic to the situation of many of its low-income employees -many of whom, she said, must work two jobs to make ends meet. 
'Too many people have to live paycheck-to-paycheck," she said. "Their children and homes have been neglected. They are not 
"As a Catholic institution, they should be thinking of the people." 
She contested Aflleck-Graves' assertion that University employ­ee benefits make up the differ­ence between employee wages and the calculable living wage. 
While some employees may enjoy access to fitness facilities and price reductions on football tickets, "there's nothing better than cash in hand to take care of their families," Owens said. 
Mary Beth Sosa, a custodian in Farley Hall, said many employees are unable to take advantage of benefits like child tuition aid and access to Rolfs and the Hockne Memorial. She said the health insurance assistance is impor­tant, but that the cost "increases more than wages do." · 
"I grew up Catholic, but when I came here, I started question­ing," Sosa said. "Everything is about money. 
"This place is a corporation. There's nothing family about it." 
And even the health insurance assistance is inadequate, Owens said, explaining the remaining cost of the insurance is almost inaccessibly high for many part time employees. 
"They're spouting that they give part time insurance," Owens said. "That's a joke." 
The least costly of three avail­able insurance policies costs part time employees $830 per month for family coverage, according to the Office of Human Resources Web site. 
The least expensive health insurance option for full time University employees requires them to pay $117 per month. 
Owens' familiarity with employee issues stems not only service last year on the Staff Advisory Council -the group Affleck-Graves described in his statement as the University-sanc­tioned avenue for employees to express any concerns they might have about their jobs. 
She did not find it effective. 

"I saw they brought in speak­ers to tell us what they wanted," she said, "but they didn't want to hear what we had to say." · 
Sosa also expressed little faith in the Staff Advisory Council, the group Owens resigned from. 
"The Staff Advisory Council is there to appease us," Sosa said. "We really don't have a voice." 
Even Aflleck-Graves' assertion that Notre Dame is the "employer of choice" for local workers may be misleading, Owens said. 
"It's not like there are a lot of employers in the area," she said. 
Owens also contested Aflleck­Graves' statement that dialogue about employee wages should take place between University officials and employees rather than students. She praised CLAP's attempts to draw atten­tion to campus labor issues. 
"Students should recognize the voice they have," she said. "When an employee speaks out, they risk their job. But when stu­dents speak out, they are not risking anything. 
"My concern is the students are passing through Notre Dame, and we are not. Maybe that's what the administration is think­ing -if they wait this out, it will go away. But it won't." 
North Dining Hall cashier and monitor Sharon Berglund used to be one of the workers who need­ed to work multiple jobs to get by. Though tier financial situation underpaid. 
"I used to have to work 60 hours a week to make ends meet," Berglund said. 
Though she wishes the depart­ment and University would be more "understanding of the little guy," Berglund said she does not feel she has an avenue to voice her concerns. 
"If I don't like it, they'll tell me to find another job," she said. "And at my age, who's going to hire me?" 
Disillusionment isn't the only reason workers are reluctant to speak. Sosa said many employees are afraid they will lose their jobs if they complain about the Building Services department or the University -a fear that Affleck-Graves described as "deeply disturbing" in his state­ment. 
Building Services Department director Alan Bigger said Wednesday employees cannot be fired on the basis of asserting any concerns. 
"There is no person I know of who has spoken out and who has been terminated for speaking out or expressing their opinions," he said. 
Bigger said he encourages employees to share their con­cerns. 
"My door is always open," he said. 
Sosa, who worked two jobs until it became too tiring, also said employees have "felt intimi­dated" from attending CLAP meetings where departmental management have stood outside to greet employees entering. 
Bigger said he knows of no administrators who have attend­ed CLAP meetings, though he "open to the public." 
"We don't interfere with the process of meetings at all," he said. 
Bigger said he has spoken with CLAP organizer Joe Murphy and thanked Murphy for the CLAP­organized employee doughnut receptions. 
"We have a civil working rela­tionship," Bigger said. 
Despite her unhappiness with wages and management, Sosa said she is happy to have a job. 
"I do like my job," she said. "I love being in [Farley]. I love the girls." 
Badin custodian Paula Benninghoff agreed that contact with the students brings some benefit to her job, though she said living on custodian wages is "rough paycheck-to-paycheck." 
A single mother, Benninghoff said she often goes without sta­ples like medicine for herself so she can provide for her two chil­dren. 
"Jobs are hard to find," she said. "I can't lose my pay because I have to support my kids." 
She said many University employees are unable to make enough money to afford retire­ment. She does not expect to retire. 
Like Sosa, Benninghoff said employees frequently avoid labor organizations out of fear of employer reprisal. 
"We don't come to meetings because we're afraid we're going to lose our jobs," she said. "That's why they don't speak." 
Two workers who do not depend on their income for financial stability expressed sat­isfaction with the environment of their jobs. 



WAKE UP THE ECHOES 
front 

.......... 
,........
-
-~_~!'\­
-
o~-=-~=-= 
~~-~:;itiM* ~~--~~-~.. ~ :w.~..., •....,;y#·..~
__..,_..._ 
•·Wi!k·~~..-.~.,-....
......_""""'""··,..,_.,....._.'
~~=~:-.~'*='~ ~~-~-:~ ~~.. 
+ 
,_.~ ~·~

"""'-·-· 
-=~~~~. 


'W'W..w.rocknebookmark.com 
Knute Rockne 75th Anniversary Commemorative Bookmark 
This bookmark is an exact replica of the actual prayer card distributed . at Coach Rockne's Funeral. 
., -~ :,:,::.: 

• 
Must BUY for Alumni, Family and Friends 

• 
Lifetime Keepsake 

• 
Buy before you leave for summer vacation 

• 
Have it shipped home or to your dorm 

• 
Made in the U.S.A. 




J&K Card, LLC 

back 

page 10 Thursday, April27, 2006 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
In thn first of three State of the 
Student Union addresses she will 
givn this y1~ar, student body presi­
dnnt Lizzi Shappell announced 
plans Wndrwsday for a multi­
facntnd, campus-wide initiativn to 
address eating disorders at Notre 
Damn. 
Speaking at the final Student 
Senate meeting of the year, 
Shappell called for a "three to 
lilllr day eonf(mmce" -set to be 
hold next winter -that will com­
bine "presm1tations, roundtable 
diseussions, keynote addresses 
and rwtworking sessions" on all 
types of eating disorders, induct­
ing anornxia. bulimia, binge eat­
ing disorder and muscular dys­
rnorphia. 
"Eating disorders and body 
image issuns have been unde­
served for too long," Shappell 
said. "As a Catholic community 
we are called to serve th11 mnm­
bnrs of our eomrnunity struggling 
with eating disorders. As a 
Catholk university, we can and 
will address these issues in an 
innovative way." 
Calling for a biopsychosocial 
approach to the issue, Shappell 
candidly delivered telling statistics 
to senators about the prevalnnce 
of eating problems at the 
University. 
According to University eating 
disorders specialist Valerie 
Staples at the University 
Counseling Center, 16.3 percent of 
the students who came to the 
Counseling Center last year 
reported eating concerns, 
Shappnll said. 
"This was 146 students," 
Shappell said "Staples reports 
that these numbers have been 
eonsistent lbr the last few years, 
but (that) does not aceount for the 
number of students on campus 
with issues or concerns about eat­
ing disorders or body image prob­
lems who do not come to the 
UCC." 
Shappell said the conference has already received initial sup­port from the sociology depart­ment, the Center for Social Concerns, the Counseling Center, tho Center for Ethics and Culture, the Gender Relations Center, the Ilealth Center, Faculty Senate, the University Committee on Women Faculty and Student'>, the Society of Women Engineers, the Sociology Club and the Feminist Voiee. 
Notre Dame is not the first 
school to engage in a multi­
faceted approach to the problem 
of eating disorders. Conferences 
like the one Shappell is pursuing 
already exist at Pennsylvania 
State University, Eastern 
Michigan University and Brigham 
Young University, Shappell said. 
While lcarning from others, Notrn Damn will be forging "nnw ground," Shappnll said. 

"Wn will work with academic dcpartrnents to call for student papnrs and prnsfmtations on all matters relating to thn biolo1,rical, psycholo1,rical and sodolf>f..,rical ele­ments of eating disorders and body image issues," she said. "We will work with Student Affairs dcpartrncnts.... We will work with the studcnt body to dissemi­nate information about how to identily signs of eating disorders and how to be supportive to a f~icnd st.~uggling with an eating disorder. 
Shappell's approach is not limit­ed to public discussions and spcnches. She said eating disor­ders should be studied in under­graduatc and graduate research projects. Helating her plan back to University President Father John Jenkins' inaugural address -in which he challenged the Notre Dame community to "find dimensions of their research agenda that reflect our Catholic character and values" -Shappell said students should "elicit and aid" in researching eating disor­ders. 
"America spends $40 billion a year on diet products, yet only contributes $12 million to eating disorders research," Shappell said. "We can approach this issue as an academie institution, calling for undergraduate and graduate research liJcused on eating disor­ders from the biopsychosocial perspective." 
Shappell noted that the com­mon contributors to eating disor­ders -low self-esteem, feelings of inadequacy and lack of control, depression, anxiety and cultural pressures -might be magnified at Notre Dame. 
"[T)he compntitive atmosphere of Notre Dame can lead to increased emphasis on perfec­tionism," she said. "A'i a student body who regularly sees this issue, yet is rarely challenged to address it in a holistic manner, we should cn~atively pursue ways to study and discuss eating disor­ders in a university setting." 
Shappell will deliver two more State of the Student Union addrnsses before her term ends next April. 
In other Senate news: 
Former Academic Affairs com­mittee chair Chris Harris, who has been the driving force behind the implementation of the College Readership Program (CRP), also took the podium, declaring Aug. 24 as the temporary CRP launch date. 
The Financial Management Board allocated $81,000 for CRP Sunday -effectively guarantee­ing the controversial program will be launched in the fall. The extra funds came from an increased Student Activities Fee-now $95, up $15 from last yea~:. The pro­gram stirred vigorous debate in recent months as some members of student organizations voiced concerns about its practicality and potential effect on the budg­ets of other Student Union groups. 
The Program will provide 1,600 daily newspapers for the student body (560 copies of USA Today, 560 copies of the New York Times and 480 of the Chicago Tribune). 
Harris said the papers will ini­tially be available at both dining halls and he called on senators to talk about the program in their dorms to encourage student inter­est. 
"Talk about it," Harris said. "And obviously since this is a stu­dent government initiative this has your name on it Make it good. Make it big. Be proud." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

J!IY'""' .,., · ,,..,,.:::;,;.,,,,,,,,,,,,m;: 
Want to write news for The Observer? Call 1-5323. 
They first met 80 years ago ... Since then, 14 Heisman Trophies & 20 National Championships have changed hands. This year, there's more than just a Shillelagh at stake. 
ND vs. USC: THE DEBA'I'E 
Come watch ND debaters Tim Fiorta and Corey Mehlos tackle USC debaters Michael Smith and fullback Brandon Hancock as they argue the issue: 
RESOLVED: That Notre Dame should win its 2006 football game against USC 
Friday, April 28 @ 4 P.M Live at the Decio Theatre Marie P. DeBartolo Perfonning Arts Center 
Free tickets can be picked up at the DPAC box office. Students are encouraged to wear "The Shirt" 
Sponsored by The William T. and Helen Kuhn Carey Chair In Modern Communications, the Office of Student Affairs, and the Notre Dame Debate Program 
Arts and Letters Forum on Attending Graduate School 
Thursday, April27, &om 7-9 P.M. in119 O'Shaughnessy 
Apattel ofthree current Notre Dame students will address those factors and people who influenced them to enter Ph.D. programs next ~ear. ANotre Dame alum, now a 4th-~ear graduate student at Michigan State Universit~, will offer her perspective on appl~ing to and succeeding 111 graduate school. 

Refreshments will be provided. 

Thursday, April27, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 

Tonight ··4/27 
Iron Sharpens Iron 10 PM, 329 CoMo 


Monday 5/1 
Eucharistic Adoration 11 AM -9 PM, Mon-Wed CoMo Chapel 

CATHOLIC 
Why are Roman Catholic priests celibate? 
Many students of the Scriptures arc surprised when they see that Peter, whom Catholics be.lieve to be the first Pope, was married. then did priests end up taking on a vow ofeel ibacy? 


Priestly celibacy is a current discipline within the Roman Catholic Church, not a dogrna off-aith. Within the Eastern (Catholic & Or­thodox) Churches, bishops are chosen from among celibate men, but 

2nd 

married men can be ordained. Whatever marital status a man is in at the 
1 John 

time of his ordination is the state in which he will remain upon his or­
2:1-5a

dination. However, in the Western (Roman Catholic) Church, celibacy has been the discipline since the fourth century. The first general law in the Western Church requiring clergy to the celibate life came fi-om Pope 
Gospel

Damasus (.366-384), with subsequent popes and councils affirming this. 
Luke

This discipline was then applied to the universal Church in the 12th 24:35-48
century at the First and Second Lateran Councils. 

Papal declarations, however, are not the only reason the Western Church currently requires celibacy from its priests, and there arc substan­tial rheological reasons that testifY to the likelihood that the Church will retain its current discipline. Some ofthe strongest theological reasons for celibacy come from Scriptural sources, beginning with the person of Jesus Christ himself. Scripture testifies to the fact that Jesus remained an unmarried celibate throughout his earthly ministry, that He might unite Himselffully to His true Bride, the Church (Rev. 21:9). His lifestyle rhus becomes the pattern for Roman Catholic clergy, who act in the person ofChrist when they preside at the Eucharist and the other Sacra­ments and otherwise minister to God's people. In Matthew's Gospel, Jesus encourages the practice ofrenouncing marriage for the sake of spreading the Kingdom ofGod, with the disclaimer that "Whoever can 

Campus Ministry 
accept this ought to accept it" (Mt 19: 10-12). The Catechism clarifies 
Phone 

tbe Church's reason f()r asking priests to remain celibate using beautiful 
1-7800 

language and imagery: "Called to consecrate themselves with undivided heart to the Lord and to 'the affairs of the Lord' (1 Cor 7:32), [priests] 
Main Office 
give themselves entirely to God and to [mankind]. Celibacy is a sign of 
319 CoMo this new lire to the service ofwhich the Church's minister is consecrated; accepted with a joyous heart celibacy radiantly proclaims the Reign of 

Retreats Office 
114 CoMoGod" (#1579) 
Web

Send questions to Brett Perkins: 
campusministry . .nd.edu 




Perkins.26@nd.edu! 
Friday  Saturday  
4/28  4/29  
Eucharistic Adoration  Saturday Mass  
12 PM-5 PM, Basilica Lady  lOAM, CoMo Chapel  
Chapel  
Saturday Vigil Mass  

5 PM, Basilica 
Tuesda~ 
5/2 

Four:7 Catholic Fellowship "Survival Guide for your '40 Days in the Wilderness' . . . Who Knew Summer Could be So Hard?", by Amelia Marcum 8:30 PM, Cavanaugh Chapel 

Acts 3:13-15, 17-19 



Sunday LIVE IT 
Scriptures 
Meghan

Third Sunday Regan
of Easter 
1st 

change in climate when she 



Sunday 4/30 
Sunday Masses 10 AM & 11:45 AM, Basilica 
Easter Vespers 
7:15 PM, Basilica 

Wednesday 5/3 
Last day of classes! 

leaves Notre Dame this year. Luckily for students at Guadalupe Regional Middle School, this climate will not affect lvfeghan's commitment to service and living out the GospeL This full Meghan will be living in Brownsville 'lexas and teaching at Guadalupe as her placement in the ACE (Alliance for Catholic Educ..1.­tion) Program. After graduation, Meghan will return back to c..1.mpus to begin the first ofher two summers masters work in education through the ACE progran1. This is one facet ofthe service learning natUre ofACE. The other facet ofACE consists ofthe two school years that Meghan will spend teacl1ing at Guadalupe Middle School. Meghan has taken the love ofservice she ha~ developed at Notre Dan1e and committed herself to spn.-ading it to others in need. 
Working with middle school studems is not a fOr­eign concept to Meghan as a result ofthe many ways serves this year at St. Adalbert's Parish in South Bend. 'Ihrough SAINTS (The Saint Adalbert IN-school ing Source) M~C-ghan tutors at the St. Adalbert Parish School. Meghan's commitment to St. Adalbert's does not end in the class room though. This year she was also responsible for coaching the Girl's Basketball team. These are skills that ,vi.ll have the parents ofGua.dalupe students very excited to have Meghan working with their children. In addition to her skills a~ a Language Arts teacher, Meghan will bring her infectious desire service to the Brownsville community. 
Meghan, you serve as an inspiration and a ofhow all bapti'l.ed Christians are called to serve one another. Thank you tor all you have done here at Dame. Our prayers are with you as you live our your call to serve in a new and profound way. 
Let us know who out the is making a diHerence! 
Send nominations to Brian Vassel at bvassel@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
page 12 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Souch Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEf' Mike Gilloon 
MANAGING EnrmR BUSINESS MANAGER M~ddie Hanna Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gonumukkala 
A.~s·1: MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griflin 
NEWS EDITORS: Amanda Michaels M~ry Kate Malone VmWPOINT EmTOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxmder SAINT MARY'S EI>ITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAI'IIICS EUITOR: Graham Ebctsch 
ADVER'nSING MANAGER: Sharon Brow!\ 
Au DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WER ADMINISTRATOR: I )~mian Althotr 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 6.31-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@>nd.t•du 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
('\74) 631-4541 obsme@'nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-';323 obsncws.l@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudems of the University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The nt'WS is reported a~ accurardy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorial' represent the opinion of rhe rn~jority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of rhe audwrs and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all rt-aders. The free exprt·ssion ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contan information. 
Q~«rtiom regarding Obst'T'Vffpolicies should be dirmrd to F.ditor in ChiifMike Gilloon. 
. POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
·nu· (>hlcrvet (USPS 'ji)'J l...WOO) i:t puhli.dled Mond:.~y dtrmJsJI Frithy <~pt during CXIIIII lllld V~G.~lion pc:tiiKi&, A ~wn 10 The Obicrvcr is $1 Ofl r~lt one acadcmu; yr.ar; S55 f'or one ~~a"nciter. 
The O~rvtr iJ publiV11:d 11t: POSTMASTER 024 Sw1h Dining t-laU Send addreu CQrn:c:dons lo: 
Norrc Dame, IN 46'5'S6.0779 The Obacrvc:t 
Pcriodiu.l pc.~Uqc paid .u No(n: Dune P.:O. Bot779 .md •ddidona! m~t~hng office~. 024 Soulh Dining Hall 
Notte Dame, IN -46556-0779 
Tiu: OW.crvcr ia .a member of the AIISd(iated Pr&:$1. All reproduction righu .&re 
tdetvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Katie Perry Chris Khorey Joe Piarulli Jack Thornton 
Maureen Mullen Tim Kaiser Viewpoint Scene Alyssa Chris McGrady Brauweiler Graphics Jarred Wafer 







IEWPOINT 
Thursday, April27, 2006 
On ordination and the priesthood 
Last Saturday, while the Church Nate's ministry in many ways, and pus for the Blue-Gold Game gathered continued its vibrant celebration of recommended that he be ordained a in front of the Basilica to see what "Easter Day," dozens of priests, priest. It was a humorous, serious was taking place. The concelebrating including the current and both for­and beautiful moment of what it priests formed a semi-eirele in front mer presidents of Notre Dame, means to be a Church. And as the of the Basilica, and greeted the joined Bishop smallest child from that family added newest Holy Cross priest with smiles 
Richard
Daniel B. Jenky, yet another affirmation, the Church and applause.
Warner, CSC
C.S.C., Bishop of was filled with laughter and sus­Everyone knows what a critical Peoria, for the tained applause. moment the Church in our country is
FaithPoint
ancient and beau­When Nate laid prostrate on the experiencing because of a shortage tiful rite of ordina-lloor of the main aisle during the of vocations to religious life and the tion to the priesthood. The Basilica Litany of the Saints, he held out his priesthood. The young men joining was decked out in all its Easter arms, making his body into a sign of lloly Cross today arfl fewer in num­beauty, with 11owers and plants the cross. ber than in previous generations. everywhere, banners and wall hang­After a beautiful homily on the But they arc devout, courageous, ings proelaiming the resurrection of meaning of what was going to take zealous, intelligent and highly moti­Jesus. The Basilica was filled with place, Bishop Jenky laid his hands vated young men who are filled with many hundreds of men, women and on Nate's head, and every priest energy in their dP.sire to serve the children. Holy Cross Father Nate present then did the same. Holy Church through their ministry. Will's parents, family members and Cross religious know each other As Constitution Four of the friends were there, as well. And so well. We arc very proud of our can­Congregation of Holy Cross rmninds were many of the people, especially didates and seminarians, and grate­us, "Our calling is to serve the Lord children, who had already benefitted ful to God for their willingness to Jesus in mission not as indcprmdent from this young and charismatic join us in life and ministry. So many individuals but in a brotherhood. Our man's ministry as a deacon. As the images, memories and so much grat­community life refreshos the faith bells of the Basilica pealed anticipat­itude filled our hearts as we awaited that makes our work a ministry and ing the joy of what was going to take our turn to place our hands on not just an employment; it fortifies place and the music of the Notre Nate's head. I was told that Nate us by the example and encourage­Damn Folk Choir filled the Basilica, used the sleeve of his alb several ment of our confreres ... We are a the procession up the main aisle times to wipfl away tears of awe and sign in an alienated world: men who began, being led by Holy Cross semi­joy. And most of us had lumps in our have, for the love of their Lord, narians in the traditional Holy Cross throats. When the bishop gave a beeonw elosest neighbors, trustwor­habit, all of whom had been close warm embrace to the newly ordained thy friends, brotlwrs." brothers of Nate during his years of priest, the Basilica was once again I know that Nate's heart is filled formation and academic preparation. filled with applause. with joy because he "answen~d the 
For me, there were almost too After Nate was vested as a priest call." And the Church and the many moving moments to even begin for the first time by his best friend, Congregation of Holy Cross are rich­to enumerate them. Bishop Jenky Father Sean McGraw, C.S.C. ~who er because he is one of us. lie will once mentioned to a group of his is pursuing doctoral studies in com­serve God's people very well for friends that when he ordains fellow parative politics at Harvard -he years to come. Holy Cross priests, he avoids sponta­joined us around the altar for the neous comments because of how first of thousands of times that he Father Richard Warner, CSC, is the especially moving these ordinations would be privileged to celebrate the Director of Campus Ministry. 1/e can are for him. Eucharist for God's people. be reached at Warner.2@nd.edu 
There was the testimony given by a When the Mass was over, the bells The views expressed in this column family from the parish telling the of the Basilica pealed again, and are those of the author and not of bishop that they had profited from numerous visitors who were on cam-The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Biology cannot be discounted 
Back in February, I was quite pleased to see many detrac­Because women have vaginas, we are to play the role sup­tors of "The Vagina Monologues" presenting their views in a posedly dictated to us by God through the receptive nature frank yet cogent manner. Many of their clear, well-founded of our genitalia: submission and silence. Our husbands are points gave me pause and challenged me to re-evaluate my to choose and actively initiate the process of procreation. own motives in participating in this year's performance of Should a woman say or think otherwise, John Paul II deems the play. Becently, however, the frequent and generic con­her to have an "unnatural resistance" to motherhood. trasts made between the portrayal of women in the play Because women have vaginas, we are essentially different (which has apparently transcended its humble beginnings from men, down to the very core of our beings. Women and as an artistic social satire to attain the status of a theologi­men are mutually alien and incomplete. We require union in cal treatise) and the Church's teachings about female per­order to achieve full personhood. This pathological eode­sonhood have been both irritating and inadequately pendency, which would be treated as a mental disorder if explored. fully expressed on the individual level, is known in the 
In his most recent polemic, Professor Emeritus Hice Church as the principle of complementarity, a divine mecha­argues that the Monologues violate the "unity of soul and nism of God's own design. body" mentioned in Pope John Paul II's writings by encour­In writing this letter, I wish to point out the inherent aging women to identify with their vaginas. I give him credit hypocrisy of using vague references to gender-imbalanced for asserting that women should not think of themselves writings to denounce "The Vagina Monologues" for identify­solely in terms of their biology, but I would challenge him to ing women with their genitalia. I would challenge future illustrate how exactly "the ennobling Catholic teaching on columnists to do their homework and present Church docu­women and sexuality" diverges from this trend. Can anyone ments whose portrayal of women actually runs counter to who has actually read the discourses of the Church fathers what they see in the play. I'm sure they're out there some­
on women look one of us in the face and ·tell us that our where. biology does not dictate our standing within the Church? 
Because women have vaginas, we cannot act in persona Christi as ordained ministers of God's Word. The "natural resemblance" demanded by Thomas Aquinas includes the presence of a penis on the person of the priest. 
Nicole Huiras sophomore Pangborn Hall April 25 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"/Hollywood/: A place where they'll pay you a thousand dollars for a kiss. andfifty cents for your soul." 
Marilyn Monroe actress 

OBSERVER POLL 
Do you agree with CLAP's proposal to raise the hourly wage for campus workers to $12.10 per hour? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
1SubmitaLetter1 
'X . . . . . < • •• • f 

to tbe Editor at 
Jwww.ndsmcobserver.com: 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, April 27, 2006 
page 13 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Immigration and the economy 
North Carolina-a place where the Civil War was popularly known as "The War of Northern Aggression." And prior to the war (whatever you choose to call it), it was also a place where hundreds of 

Liz Coffey 
The Coffey 
Grind

dor to give African Americans one black representative, while unfairly diluting African-American voting blocs in other distriets. 
While North Carolina may be well south of the Mason-Dixon line, not everything there is about race. 

On the evening of March 13, a twen­ty-seven year-old exotic daneer called 
911. She elaimed that she had been forced into a bathroom and then raped by three Duke lacrosse players. She was black, and they were white. Thus. people pitted the confliet as one in which males from an exclusive "sanetuary of the white man" private school took advantage of a poor black "townie." 
But was this the correct characteri­zation? While Duke may have origi-
Leave the race issue out of it 
nally been the stronghold of the southern white male, the demograph­ics of the student body have changed throughout the years. The latest Princeton Review reported that 56 percent of the student body is 
Caucasian. Moreover, most of the stu­dent body hails from outside of North Carolina, and the South in general. The men's lacrosse team is particular­ly non-southern, as over half of the team hails from the three northeast­ern states of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. 
Via e-mail, one of these New Jersey natives expressed his desire to invite strippers to his room, kill them and cut off their skin. He didn't mention that the skin had to be black. 
Yet the media infused the conf1ict with racial undertones. A New York Times article said that a full-page ad in the college newspaper which deemed the happenings a "social dis­aster" was paid for by "the depart­ment of African and African-American studies along with other depart~ ments." Why only mention the black groups? It feeds the racial undertones of the story. 
And is this really a "social disas­ter"? Isn't it more of a moral disas­ter? 
The player's e-mail reminds me of the horrifyingly disturbing (and fic­tional, thank goodness) movie "Hostel," in which some people paid thousands of dollars to torture and kill people for their own personal enjoyment. One couldn't help but watch the movie and shudder at the immorality of the acts. Similarly, if this boy wanted to tear off a stripper's skin, isn't that a moral problem? 
And what about the act of stripping? Exotic dancing is not considered a moral activity by most standards. Moreover, the 27-year-old woman was also a mother! What kind of a mother is also a stripper? 
But many failed to consider that, and instead played the race card. Those who play that card in this story are no better than baseball player Sammy Sosa, who claimed, in the midst of a sub-par 2004 season, that Chicago fans were turning against him not because of his poor batting average, but because of the color of his skin. 
Those who play the race card are also no better than those who claimed that the firing of Tyrone Willingham after a sub-par 2005 Notre Dame football season was not because of his team's poor win-loss record, but because of the color of his skin. (And what are those people are thinking now, after Charlie Weis led practically the same team to a BCS bowl?) 
Recent DNA tests connected zero of the forty-six white lacrosse players to the rape. So what if the rape never happened in the first place? 
If the young woman did fabricate her story, she'd be no better than the Missouri couple who faked the birth of sextuplets in order to receive dona­tions from compassionate people. But instead of exploiting the generosity of others, this exotic dancer will have exploited American sympathies regarding the race conflict. Then we'd have an altogether different moral problem on our hands. 
Regardless of the case's outcome, if any social problems have been clearly exposed, it is the problem of student­athletes and the amount of extra lee­way they are given in most colleges. While Notre Dame prides itself in maintaining high standards for its student-athletes, the University seems to be a rare exception these days. The Duke rape scandal may be another story in a series that includes Coach Gary Barnett and the Colorado foot­ball recruiting scandal of 2004, in which recruits were given sex, money and alcohol as a means of luring them on to the university's football team. 
Race brought on the Civil War (or the "War of Northern Aggression," whichever you prefer). Race brought on unfair redistricting. But race may not have brought about this heinous crime. Not all incidents in North Carolina are race-related. Sometimes, they're just about morality. 
Liz Coffey is a junior American Studies major. She is studying in Washington, D. C. for the semester and can be contacted at ecoffey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
The national debate on U.S. immigration policy flared just prior to the Congressional recess and is sure to do so again once policymakers return to their offices in the last week of April. The temporary quiet on this issue is an ideal time for considering subtleties of the immigra­tion debate that might have been overlooked in moments of political battle. 
This piece summarizes some relevant facts that have so far not become prominent in the national discussion on this topic. Its purpose is not to persuade readers of a particular position, but rather to raise the level of infor­mation that the general reader brings to thinking about immigration policy. 
These facts were proposed and compiled by students in an economics course on "Migration, Education and Assimilation" at the University of Notre Dame. They reflect their opinions about salient points to consider when weighing the current immigration reform propos­al. 
1. 
It is important to consider whether immigrants dose out jobs for natives and/or whether they fuel other social problems, such as discrimination. For example, an in!lux of immigrants may affect the migration of other Americans. William Collins of Vanderbilt University has shown that the great number of immi­grants from Europe early in the century filled up the high-paying manufacturing jobs in America. Due to dis­crimination against blacks, companies hired the immi­grants before black workers, even if they had the same skills. Thus, there was no opportunity for black Americans in this sector until immigration slowed in mid-century. Had there been less immigration, more openings would have existed for black workers, and they would have had approximately 50 more years to assimilate into the American economy and social sys­tem. 

2. 
The composition of immigrants has changed sub­stantially over the decades due to various reforms. Before the reforms of the 1960s, U.S. policy largely allowed European immigrants across American bor­ders; after the changes more and more immigrants began to come from developing nations in Africa and Latin and South America. These changes dramatically affected the skill sets of arriving immigrants. The edu­cational differences across sending countries mean that more recent immigrants have much lower educational attainment than previous immigrant groups. 

3. 
Immigration is a situation that probably affects all Americans, regardless of whether all Americans are aware of this. Following the simple rules of supply and demand, an increase in immigration has the possibility 


to lower the local wage in an area, like a state or city. As more people move into an area, the demand for work increases, thus reducing the wage that employers need to pay to get workers. This can lower the wages of natives in the area, but the effect can potentially be felt nationwide. As natives move to other areas to escape immigrant competition for jobs, they in turn compete with other natives for jobs. 
4. 
In general, illegal immigrants do not take jobs from American workers. The vast majority has lower skill levels or education and end up with jobs reflecting this. Only those workers in the market for lower-skilled jobs really "compete" against these immigrants for jobs. 

5. 
Most proposals include plans for a temporary work­er program, allowing immigrants to be matched with 


want. At present, many believe immigrant workers to have negative effects on the wages of natives throughout the coun­try. Some evidence is available to sup­port this claim: a study by George Borjas of Harvard University found that a 10 percent increase in immigration leads to a three to four percent reduction in the 
wages of less skilled natives. It's important both to note that these effects are felt almost entirely by low-skilled natives and, similarly, to consider the economic welfare of America's 
s 
c

poor when calling attention to 
u

U.S. immigration policy. 
1

6. The immigration reform poli­
\

cies strongly advocate immigrant 
~

assimilation. Borjas has also shown that recent immigrant cohorts are much more dominated by a few ethnic groups than were the wave of immigra­tion early in the century. With an increase 
in the percentage of immigrants sharing the 
ments represent home ownership and sav­
same ethnic heritage, immigrants are more and more able to establish enclave cultures and economic systems largely isolated from the rest of the U.S. popu­lation. Isolated enclaves are more feasible the larger the ethnic population. Enclaves, however, produce negative effects such as a lack of English proficiency and conse­quently lower wages. Policymakers who desire assimila­tion should write legislation to encourage a smooth assimilation stage after the seemingly inevitable enclave stage. 
The Water's Fine? 
7. 
Immigration can help increase the productivity of native workers. With immigrants taking care of the low skilled labor, natives can devote their time to jobs where they are the most productive. This increase in produc­tivity will inevitably help out the American economy. 

8. 
The main proposals give insufficient attention to important assimilation aspects such as English language attainment. According to researchers at the Universities of Houston and Chicago, learning English gives a con­siderable wage boosnn the range of 10-30 percent. Additionally, Ilana Redstone Akresh of University of Illinois finds that 50 percent of immigrants face a large occupational downgrade largely because of a lack of English skills. While the plan does address connecting foreign workers with the jobs that Americans do not 


want, the economy could be greatly improved if 
America could "unlock" the skills of many non-English speaking immigrants. The source for low-skilled immigrant jobs is effectively unlimited, but America 
could tap into a valuable resource of skilled jobs by translating skills bet­ter. 
9. Funding for border security has increased by 66 percent , since 2000, but it is unclear 
whether this increase is getting the desired results. Just because Border Security Agents appre­
hended more people in the past 
year does not mean that any 
fewer people entered the coun­try. Moreover, the goal of having "full control" of the border will 
ings for retirement, and they contribute to eco­nomic independence for the second generation. Temporary worker programs reduce the incentive for these investments and increase the likelihood that chil­dren born to temporary workers will depend on state support. 
AbigailWozniak assistant professor ofEconomics April20 
require large financial expendi­tures that could be used elsewhere. 
10. Research shows that citizen­ship status is related to significantly 
higher levels of financial investment by first-generation immigrants. These invest-black slaves labored on tobacco planta­tions. In modern times. North Carolina has been a site of racial gerry­mandering, as the notorious salaman­der-shaped 12th Congressional District was drawn along the I-85 corri­
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 14 
Thursday, April27, 2006 
CONCERT REVIEW 
O.A.R. revolutionizes sound, potential 
By BOB COSTA 
Scene Critic 
Although not on Notre Dame's campus, Tuesday's O.A.H. concert at tho Morris Cnntnr for tho Performing Arts was cer­tainly tilled with many frayed ND-Iogo hats, popped collars and a few local Deadheads looking for a fresh groove. Playing to a nearly sold-out audience of mostly area college and high-school stu­dents. rock band O.A.lt (01' A Hevolution} played a two-hour set that focused on the band's new album while throwing a few bones to its fan base with a set-list that also included some songs that were first debuted in the late-Nineties when the band was playing the local concert circuit around the Ohio State University. 
Before releasing their most recent stu­dio album "Stories of a Stranger," O.A.R. was at a crossroads. They had loads of talent and a raucous live show that appealed to people who dug Sublime and those into John Mayer. But, they still were being pngged as a youngnr version of the Dave Matthews Band due to their roots­rock vibe and the inclusion of a saxophon­ist in its main lineup. After independently releasing albums like "The Wanderer" and "Any Time Now," the band signed with a major-label and released "In Between Now and Then" in 2003 on Everline/Lava. The reception to the album was lukewarm and featured many O.A.R. songs retread from previous albums. 
With their new record, O.A.H. has finally released a real album. "Stories of a Strangt)r" is tightly focused and scatters jazz, folk and O.A.H.'s unique brand of reggae into a pop formula that keeps the songs in front and the jams in the back. Lyricist and lead singer Marc Hoberge has been known to meander around with words on previous records, mixing reli­gious enthusiasm with the follies of a poker game gone bad. It is notable that Hoberge collaborated with Glen Ballard on the songs "Program Director" and "Love and Memories." Ballard is the same man who produced Alanis Morrisette on her breakthrough "Jagged Little Pill" and Dave Matthews Band on "Everyday" ­which "Stories of a Stranger" echoes in many ways. 
"Stories of a Stranger" is O.AR.'s best studio album by far. although other O.A.R. fans at the show disagreed. Some see it as a "sell-out" to eommercialism and pop while others thought it is the album 
O.A.H. had to release in order to get out of its stagnant quasi-"jam-band" rut. Hegardless of where you stand on the pop nature of the album, the songs from "Stories" seem to only get better when explored live by the band and talented keyboardist Michael Paris, who has been a guest with O.A.R. for their entire spring tour. The expansive stage of the Morris Center was a perfect venue for the band to stretch out its musical legs and rock­out. 
Most of O.A.H. 's foray into the Top 40 world has been positive, especially with its songwriting, but many of the band's die­hard fans were unenthusiastic about this current tour. For years, O.A.H. has culti­vated a "grassroots" image of a college band that laid its reputation down every night with frat-happy songs interspersed with a bit of wisdom and tons of energy. Now, after signing to a major-label in Lava/Atlantic Records, the band has its tour sponsored by Sony Computer Entertainment and Major League Baseball. After Army of Me opened, fans were beset by a barrage of commercials for video games and MLB produets hawked by O.A.H. members -not exaetly the epitome of musical integrity for a band that stood steadfastly independent for so long. 
Other performances from the new record "Stories of a Stranger" correlated surprisingly well into the live setting. Lead singer Marc Hoberge led his band into taut renditions of "Heard the World" and "The Stranger" where it was easy to tell that the band had much more fun playing around with than their older, almost tired, songs that they've been playing non-stop for close to five years. The fervor in which 
O.A.R. 
approached other new songs like "52-50," "One Shot" and "Lay Down" was infectious. 

O.A.R. 
then segued into "Love and Memories," the Maryland-based band's current single that has been a top 20 hit at both Hot AC and Triple A radio outlets. With its infusion of a crackling guitar riff played by guitarist Hichard On, the ballad caused a frenzy in the crowd who had been slightly dazed for a few song -per­haps due to the unmistakable organic scent wafting around the Morris Center's vaulted ceilings. Instead of being a hippie love song like many of O.A.R.'s older tunes, "Love and Memories" in a live set­ting was a frantic and tightly wound pop song -more like The Killers than Dave 



DVD REVIEW 
'Ten Commandments' mystique still set in stone 
By MARTY SCHROEDER 
Scene Critic 
It has been 50 years since God parted the Hed Sna on movie semens. Now, with the rtH:ently-released l>VD from Paramount Home Video the 1956 epic "The Ten CornmandnumL'i" ean be enjoyed anywhern this side of E1-,rypt. 
l>ireetl)d by the prolific Ceeil B. DeMille, this film told the story of Moses from his birth to his death in relation to his mission as the deliverer of the nation of Israel from slavery in EJ.,rypt. Extra-Biblieal sections of the story arn added sueh as his tenure in the court of the Pharaoh, where he is a prince of Egypt. The love triangle between himself, Hameses II, and the princess Nefretiri is also explored. 
Moses begins the lilm at the height of power, falls to the rank of slave, is driven out into thn desert and returns to Egypt as God's chosen deliverer. The narrative then follows the Jews from Mt. Sinai where Moses receives the Ten Commandments ­a Hollywood-style snafu, since the Ten Commandments were actually revealed to the entire people of Israel before Moses received the tablets unlike the film -to their entry across to the River Jordan to the Biblieal Promised Land. 
Charlton Heston's Moses is a eharismatic eharacter and easily the emotional crux of the film. lleston adds a power to the role that some may lind over-acted, but to oth­ers seems powerful and moving. Yul Brynner is equally eharismatic in his sinis­ter performanee as Hameses. He becomes Pharaoh and is the target of the famous axiom "Let my people go!" Edward G. Hobinson, made famous by 1930s and 40s gangster films, is also of note for his per­formance of the traitorous Hebrew Dathan. 
Noted for its epic proportions, this film was massive in its undertaking. Parts of it were filmed on location in Egypt. For the scenes involving sandstorms, DeMille had 
jets from the Egyptian Air 


Force tied down and their engines turned on to blow sand. 
The sheer number of extras used is staggering. Over 14,000 people and 15,000 animals were used in shooting this film, along with 300,000 gallons of water for the parting of the Hed Sea sequence. The water was filmed rushing into a tank and then played backwards for the film. While it may look dated today, it still stands as a speetacle and an amazing spot of special effects. 

Along with the 1956 version of the film, the DVD set also includes the 1923 black and white version. This film takes the Biblical narrative and uses it as a prologue for a story with a modern setting. It came about after DeMille solicited ideas for a film from everyday people. Someone submitted an idea for a story about the Ten Commandments and DeMille though it would make an excellent film. 
This prologue is the story of the Jews in captivity and begins with Moses already as Matthews. 
The Morris Center concert concluded with Hoberge playing a solo acoustic ren­dition of the haunting unreleased song "Princess Valerie," which Hoberge said was still "in development." The entire 
O.A.R. ensemble joined Roberge for one last song to end the evening -their fan­favorite eoncert staple "That Was a Crazy Game of Poker." Still, for a band that once made its name off that song's popularity, "Poker" was hardly the night's best song. As much as its fans may not like to admit it, O.A.H. is much better in playing its pop­rock songs off "Stories of a Stranger" then any of its attempts at reggae-infused rhythms. The band ean improvise and extend its songs into the ten minute terri­tory, but the best moments of Tuesday's show came when O.A.H. concentrated its melodies into a concise harmony that did­n't noodle off into a muddy jam with no direction. 
Contact Bob Costa at rcostal@nd.edu 

the deliverer telling Pharaoh to let hi'> peo­ple free. It then follows them to Mt. Sinai, where Moses receives the tablets and the Golden Calf is fashioned. The story then fol­lows two brothers in 1923 -one who fol­lows the Bible and another who does not. 
These two movies are now in a complete set. Alone, the films are good -but become better when watched together. The evolution of DeMille's filmmaking can be observed and his devotion to the craft -he suffered a heart attack filming the second one -is undeniable. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Thursday, April27, 2006 
Page 15 
EVENT PREVIEW 
The Fisher Regatta 2006 
Fisher Hall's signature event aims to bring out competitive spirit within dorms 
By TAE ANDREWS Assistant Scene Editor 
Ahoy, mates! This Saturday, scurvy scallywags and barnacle-encrusted boatswains alike will push off in the annual Fisher Regatta. Those intrepid sailors courageous enough to brave the rough seas and toxic waters of St. Mary's Lake will enter the field in pur­suit of the hallowed Regatta Cup, now celebrating its 20th anniversary. 
First started in April 1986, the Fisher Regatta boasts a boat race across St. Mary's Lake. The rules are simple -the vessels must be homemade, all crewmembers must remain in their boats and no boats can intentionally set a crash course with another vessel. Other than that, all bets are off, and may the best boat win. 
While for casual Regatta goers attend­ing the Saturday event may be a spur of the moment decision, the dedicated men of Fisher Hall have spent the past week gearing up for the momentous occasion. In preparation for Regatta, Fisher holds its annual Fred and Sally week, so named for Mr. and Mrs. Fred J. Fisher, the donors who helped build the green and white men's residence hall. 
Fisher started Fred and Sally week with a Grotto Mass with Howard this past Sunday night, followed by a grill out. Afterwards, they kicked off the week with an unofficial parade of the newly refurbished "Jolly Piggot," the ceremonial flagship of Fisher Hall. It stands in dry-dock now, firmly anchored to a tree in front of the South Quad dorm. However, newly adorned with a fresh coat of paint and bearing the green and white standard of Fisher Hall, the "Jolly Piggot" is at once the pride of a dorm's legacy and its symbol of an ongoing tradition. 
This past Monday night, the Fishermen were treated with a talk from the director of Alumni Relations Chuck Lennon at the Eck Visitors center, across from the Notre Dame Bookstore. Known for his ability to incite thousands of Irish fans to "raise the roof' at Notre Dame football pep 
which hopefully won't fall upon any of the teams entered in the Regatta field. 
"The boats usually do a pretty good job of staying afloat. Usually we have three to four sinkers, but that's why we have four scuba divers on hand. We're big on security," Fisher Regatta Co­Chairman John "Mac" Longo said. 
Longo's words couldn't be truer. In addition to scuba divers, the Regatta will have three rescue boats on hand, in addition to a veritable host of NDSP, 
NDFD, and local 

rallies, Lennon area South Bend maintains a special The Fisher Regatta officials ever relationship with 2006 present in the Fisher hall. case of an emer­
Tuesday night St. Mary's Lake gency. 
was host to For those ves­Fisher's annual Date: April 29th sels that prove Section Wars, in themselves sea­which the salty Time: 1 p.m. worthy and man­
seadogs honed their buccaneer skills with arm wrestling competition, pie eatirig contests (with both light­weight and heavyweight divisions) and crazy haircuts doled out by fellow dorm members. Doubtless, more than a few rounds of Fisher's signature chant ("We ... We Are ... We Are Fisher...We Are Fishermen, Hey!") broke out during this dorm spirit event. In keeping with their nautical nature, Co-Chairmen John "Mac" Longo and Jeremy Moreno, who cite "The Little Mermaid" and "Captain Ron" as their favorite nautica1 films, are chairing the Fisher Regatta. 
After the conclusion of the Regatta, Fisher will hold its Regatta Dance in the Fisher/Pangborn Courtyard, entitled "Shipwrecked: Lost at Sea," a fate age to stay afloat, 
the competition will be stiff. Last year, Badin Hall won the Regatta for the women, and O'Neill Hall is the two-time repeat champion on the men's side. Also, Fisher cross-lake rival Carroll Hall is a consistent threat to the title, always providing a good challenge from the Notre Dame campus' most secluded dorm, The fierce Griffins of Stanford Hall figure to make a strong push for the Cup, given their runner-up finish last year and the fact that they are captained by the crusty Larry Bailey, as seasoned a bilge rat as they come. 
In the past, Notre Dame shipwrights have displayed significant imagination in the design of their watercraft. Two years ago, one vessel was assembled 
with the use of highly buoyant kegs, and a past girls' dorm boat was created entirely out of Twister game boards. However, the Regatta Co-Chairmen Jlren't resting on their proverbial lau­rels, offering an inaugural award for the most original craft entered in the 
Regatta. 

"We're looking for a little more cre­ativity this year," Fisher Co-Chairman Jeremy Moreno said. 
Longo also noted a developing trend in nautical fashion. 
"Many Notre Dame rectors and rec­tresses are big on putting their dogs on their dorms' boats. However, I don't think the dogs are too big on that." 
One thing Fisher Hall is big on is charity. With a $30 entry fee per boat, all of the proceeds garnered from the Regatta will go to the charitable organi­zation Andre House. Located in Phoenix, Arizona, the Andre House is a homeless shelter run by Holy Cross order priests. 
Another part of Fisher's Hall's gen­
erosity will be the refreshments served 
up for Regatta landlubbers all day long, 
free of charge. Fishermen will spend 
the Saturday afternoon both behind 
oars at sea and behind barbeques on 
land, grilling up mouthwatering ham­
burgers, hot dogs and bratwursts for 
any who attend the event. The combina­
tion of crisp sea air, breathtaking boat 
racing, and delicious food is more than 
a good enough reason for any Notre 
Dame or St. Mary's student to keelhaul 
themselves out of bed and motor over to 
St. Mary's Lake this Saturday. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew 1 @nd.edu 

I~ IS Ill~ll 
Knott -Marion DreadKnott 

r-----BP-The Rootbeer Float
Siegfried-Super Quad/ray 

L.........--Howard -Miss Quacktastic 
r----------------------Badin 
Dillion 

L----------McGlinn 
·~------------Cavanaugh 
Pangborn -Pboxes  
Morriseey Manor .. Rocki  
Keenan -Motor Boati  
Graphic by JARREO WAFEFVThe  

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, April 27, 2006 
MLB 
Sheets shuts dovvn Braves as Brevvers co111plete svveep 
Pujols makes up for Isringhausen's blown save with game-winning RBI-single in the ninth to beat Pittsburgh 
Associated Pres. outs. I told y'all. I feHI good," Wodnesday and a three-game Sh1wts said in his nativH sweep. 
MILWAUKl~l·: -BPn ShPets is Louisiana drawl. ''I'm not saying Pujols, who leads the majors hack to winning, and the somnthing couldn't happen, but with 29 RBis, has the game­Milwauk1H~ Brewers alnmdy arn if' it kneps going, I'm going to winning RBI in l'our of the accomplishing unprecedented kenp pitching like I am and I Cardinals' last fivo victories. feats. ain't going to worry about it." "Izzy, I know he wanted to get 
Sheets got his first vietory Milwaukf~e won three straight that save right there, and he since tearing a hack musdn last l'or its first sweep of any length made a mistake," Pujols said. August, and the BrPwPrs beat over the Braves since moving "But we came out with a win, Atlanta !i-4 Wndrwsday for tlmir l'rorn thn American League to and everybody will l'orget about first sweep of' any kind against the Nl. in 1998. It's yet another what happened." the Braves. step lor a team that has real St. Louis led 3-2 with two outs 
"There's a first time for evnry­expnetations for the first time in the ninth when Hernandez thing," Sheets said. "''m glad it aftnr going 81-81 last season. hit his first homer of the season. was this time." "That's tho dass of' tho lnague lsringhausen ( 1-2) has allowed 
Shnnts' fastball n~adwd 96 ovnr thoro. It's bflen tho elass or three homers in eight innings mph on thn radar gun as latn as the league or in the top dass of this year, two resulting in losses, his f'inal inning. Shf~nts ( 1-2) the league tho last 14 years," and has a 6.75 ERA. gavn up two runs and six hits, said Yost. who spent 12 years "Just one bad pitch I wish I striking out nirw in six innings. on the Braves coaching staff could get back, but I can't," 
"Beli1wn it or not, B1~nny was­with Cox bel'ore becoming Isringhausen said. "It's just rl't rwarly as sharp as his last Milwaukee's managor in 2003. frustrating more than anything, start." BrewPrs manager N(){l "We've rwver ewm won a serip,s but we'II be back out there." Yost said. "lin's back lwalthy at honw against them, let alone The Hernandez homer denied again -wn don't nvnn think a sweep." Mark Mulder his 1OOth career about that anymore -and victory. Then, in the bottom doing what lw do1~s best. lie St. Louis 4, Pittsburgh 3 half, David Eckstoin and Hoctor was on tlw attack." Albert Pujols prevented .Jason Luna hit consecutive singles ol'f 
The Brnwnrs ace's snason Isringhausen's latest l'ailure Roberto Hernandez (0-1), and Ryan Madson (2-1) allowed year until August 8. He finislwd erHled last Aug. 26 when he l'rom hurting the St. Louis Pujols lined a 2-2 pitch down four runs and 10 hits in l'ivc with 10 aftnr hitting just one in hurt himself while pitching Cardinals. the third-base line. shaky innings. A successful his rookie season. against the Braves. lin began Pujols hit a game-winning sin­Pujols was down 0-2 earlier in reliever his l'irst two seasons, The Blue Jays finished with 13 this year on the disabled list gle in the ninth inning after the count. Madson has been inconsistent in hits. with shoulder problems related lsringhausen allowed a tying "I know if I get two strikes, I four starts, posting an 8.05 "This is fun to be a part of. to the back but struck out 16 in home run to .Jose Hernandez in can still take the same approach ERA. Everybody is swinging the bat a pair of losses at New York and the top half, giving the and get a base hit," Pujols said. The rest of Philadelphia's really well," Wells said. home against Cincinnati. Cardinals the victory over the starters haven't been much bet­
''I'm thinking about making Pittsburgh Pirates on Philadelphia 9, Colorado 5 ter. They have a 6.36 ERA. sec­Los Angeles 4, Detroit 0 
A suddenly potent offense is ond-worst in the National While Bartolo Colon is on the helping the Philadelphia Phillies League. disabled list, the Los Angeles overcome their subpar pitching. Angels are getting by line with­
David Bell hit a three-run Toronto 8, Baltimore 2 out their ace. homer and Pat Burrell drove in Alex Hios' strong start this John Lackey allowed one hit two runs in Philadelphia's victo­season isn't a fluke. Just ask over eight innings, Vladimir ry over the Colorado Rockies on teammate Vernon Wells. Guerrero hit a two-run homer Wednesday night. Wells homered twice and Rios and Angels defeated the Detroit 
Mike Lieberthal and Chase had three hits to help the Tigers Wednesday for their sec­Utley each had three hits for the Toronto Blue Jays beat the ond shutout in three games. Phillies, who improved to 5-9 at Baltimore Orioles on "It's big for us," Los Angeles home. Wednesday night. manager Mike Scioscia said. 
Since manager Charlie "It's fun to watch," Wells said "These guys have to pitch deep Manuel juggled his lineup on of Rios. "He's coming into his into a game to give us a chance Monday, the Phillies have 21 own. He's figuring out what he's to win, and you couldn't ask for runs and 34 hits in three games. capable of doing. I'm proud of' a better job than John gave us." 
"We have guys who are going him. lie's working hard and its The Angels took two of three to hit no matter where they are paying off." from Detroit and have won live in the lineup," said Bell, who Hios hit his sixth home run, a of their last six series, also beat­remained in the No. 7 spot. two-run shot otl' Erik Bedard, in ing the New York Yankees, 
Manuel moved Utley from fifth the sixth. Wells followed with Texas, Minnesota and Oakland. to second, dropped Aaron his first homer of the game off' Colon. the AL Cy Young Award Howand to sixth and put slugger Sendy Hleal to give Toronto a 6-winner, went on the 15-day dis­Ryan Howard fifth instead of 2 lead. abled list on April 19 with an sixth or seventh. So far, it's Rios is platooning with Eric inflamed right shoulder. worked well. Hinske in right field, but he's "We need that starting pitch­
"Our hitting was pretty making it hard for Blue Jays ing, that's a strength of ours," sound," Manuel said. manager John Gibbons to keep Seioseia said. "Our bullpen has 
AP Cory Sullivan had four hits, him on the bench. been lights out. That part has to including a solo homer for Rios went 3-for-4 with a walk, stay the same until our hitting Colorado, which lost for only the raising his average to .396. He gets its feet on the ground and third time in nine road games. didn't hit his sixth home run last gets our oll'ense going." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r-m. at the Notre Dame onlce, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifleds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Highly motivated, ethical/socially Office Space For Lease 1733 SF at 4 bdrrn,2.5 baths house. Call Judy responsible. entrepreneurial, go-$1000 Per Month NNN. Walking 574-298-6217. WANTED getters with desires to make a FoR SALE Distance to ND. Contact Grubb & TICKETS 
meaningful impact on transforming Ellis/Cressy & Everett. Tony Davey Room available anytime but 1st Police Officer Positions! The City of the international business world Do not rent or live in a dorm. Come 574-271-4060. renter gets 1st month free. TOP $$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX. Madison (WI) Police Department while making a large amount of see 429 Tonti, 1/2 mile from ND $350/mo. Beautiful & very clean 574-232-0964. is currently accepting applications $$$$. I am an alum based in Campus! Make your dream of Large house for rent. '18285 Dunn home. Close to ND. Parking avail· 
for a class, Jackson Hole and am looking for homeownership a reality. 1232 sq Rd. Walk to class @ ND. 4 huge able. Call Bill 574-246-0872 or cell I WOULD LIKE TO BUY YOUR which begins in May, 2007. students for part time. full time. or It, 3+car garage. Call Donna @993-bedrooms, 3 full baths. Huge 57 4·386-7272. FOOTBALL SEASON TIX. PLEASE Written testing for this process will summer employment to work for 5060. fenced yard. Call317·431-9508 CALL 277·1659. 


be held on Wed, May 3. 6:00pm at Indiana Univ-South Bend.Northside, Room 104, 1700 Mishawaka Ave. Applications will be given out at the test and no preregistration is required. Questions? Call MPDat (608} 266-4190/ www.madisonpolice.com AA/EOE 
Housemate: 3 guys need 4th in 4br house. 309-3105. 
commission. Can work from home. www.effectiveexecutivecoaching.co m 
SUMMER WORK $15.50 base­appt. FT/PT schedules.customer sales/service,no experience neces· sary, all ages 17 & older. conditions apply. Call Now. Start After Finals! South Bend/Elkhart 574-273-3835 Indianapolis 317-253-2734 Fort Wayne 260-492-9159 Bloomington 812-330-1104 Evansville 812-477· 2702 Lafayette 765-449-41 00 97 Honda wagon, EX Accord. 105,000 miles. 1-owner,red,asking $4800. Car on campus. 269-445­1437 or 631·5962. 




FoR RENT 
Large 2br apt. near ND. Starting at $595. Call277-9372. 
4 BR,1.5 BA, fenced back yard, <2 mi. to ND. 428 Preston. $795/mo. 269-663·2299. 

HISTORIC HOME-CHAPIN PK. 2800 s/f+base,LR w/fp.4 bdrms.study + finished 3rd fl. Full appliances+ W/D, 3 porches. 413 W. NAVARRE/$1250+util. 574­2322167 or 574-2613184 www.xog.com/property/413WestNa varre.html 
Retail/Office Space For Lease 1800 SF at $10 PSF NNN on SR 23 east of Ironwood, Near ND. Contact Grubb & Ellis/Cressy & Everett, Noah Davey 574-271-4060 3·6 BDRM HOMES.$195/PER PERSON MO. WALK TO ND.06/07 OR SUMMER.574·329-0308 
2 BDRM HOME.$590 M0.272-6306 
2 bdrm/2bath apt. Sub-let at dis· counted rate. with option to stay longer. $555/mo. Down from $705 for Jui·Aug. 257-0659. 
1 bdrm apt. 1 mi to ND. Laundry,security,quiet historic neighborhood. $600/mo. Call 283­0325. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC at 631-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Christina Partyka needs to work on her woods. Once she takes care of that she'll be perfect in every way 




OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, April27, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
Major League Baseball American League East 

team record perc. last 10  GB  
Boston 13·8 .61 6·4  
Toronto 11·8 .579 6·4  1  
NY Yankees 10·9 .526 5·5  2  
Baltimore 11-11 .500 4·6  2.5  
Tampa Bay 9-12 .429 4-6  4  
American League Central  
team record perc. last 10  GB  
Chicago Sox 14·6 .700 9·1  
Detroit 13-9 .591 6·4  2  
Cleveland 11-10 .524 4-6  3.5  
Minnesota 8·12 .400 3-7  6  
Kansas City 5·14 .263 3·7  8.5  
American League West  
team record perc. last 10  GB  
LA Angels 12-10 .545 6·4  
Texas 11-11 .500 7-3  1  
Oakland 10·12 .455 4·6  2  
Seattle 8-14 .364 2-8  4  
National League East  
inam meord perc. last 10  GB  
NY Mets 14-7 .667 5-5  
Philadelphia 9-11 .450 5-5  4.5  
Atlanta 9·12 .429 4-6  5  
Washington 7-14 .333 5-5  7  
Florida 6·13 .316 3-7  7  
National League Central  
team record perc . last 10  GB  
Houston 15-6 .714 8-2  
Cincinnati 15-7 .682 8-2  .5  
St. Louis 14·7 .667 8-2  1  
Chicago 12·8 .600 6-4  2.5  
Cubs 12·10 .545 5-5  3.5  
Milwaukee 5-18 .217 H  11  
National League West  
team record perc. last 10  GB  
Colorado 11·10 .524 4·6  
San Francisco 11·10 .524 4-6  
Arizona 11-11 .500 6-4  .5  
LA Dodgers 10·11 .476 5-5  1.5  
San Diego 8-13 .381 4-6  3  

USILA/STX Men's Lacrosse Coaches' Poll 
team record previous 

1 Virginia 12·0 1 2 Hofstra 12-1 2 3 Maryland 8·3 3 4 Cornell 9·2 5 5 Georgetown 8·2 7 6 Johns Hopkins 6·4 12 7 Princeton 7·4 6 8 Navy 9·3 4 9 Syracuse 6·4 9 10 Pennsylvania 10·2 10 11 Massachusetts 8·3 8 12 Towson 8·4 11 13 UMBC 7;4 14 14 Denver 11·4 15 15 Penn State 7-4 13 16 Harvard 6·4 17 17 Army 7·5 18 18 Colgate 11-2 19 19 Stony Brook 8·4 NR 20 NOmE DAME 8·4 19 
around the dial 
NBA 

New Jersey at Indiana, 7:30 p.m., NBA TV Miami at Chicago, 8 p.m., TNT LA Clippers at Denver, 10:30 p.m., TNT 
NHL 

Ottawa at Tampa Bay, 7 p.m., OLN Detroit at Edmonton, 9:30 p.m., OLN 
PGA 

Zurich Classic of New Orleans, 4 p.m., USA 
NFL 


Associated Press 
HOUSTON Sorry, Vince, but you won't be playing for your hometown team. 
The Houston Texans will take Southern Cal running baek Reggie Bush or North Carolina State defensive end Mario Williams with the first pick in Saturday's draft, general manager Charley Casserly said Wednesday. 
The Texans dashed the hopes of Texas fans who have been clamoring for the team to pick Vince Young, a Houston native who led the Longhorns to a Rose Bowl win and the national championship over Bush and USC. 

"We came to the conclu­sion that to draft a quarter­back, whether it be Vince Young, Matt Leinart or Jay Cutler, was not the best thing for this football team," Casserly said. "The best thing for this football team was to use the first pick in this draft to add a premier player at another position." 
Casserly said part of the decision involved contacting other teams to see if they wanted to trade for the top pick. 
"Right now we have nobody interested in that first pick, so we have gone 
IN BRIEF 
PGA !!Olfers doing their part 
to hefp rebuild New Orleans 
NEW ORLEANS -Before they start playing for $6 million at the Zurich Classic, Masters champion Phil Mickelson, David Toms and other players at English Turn are giving money away to help rebuild New Orleans. 
Toms, the only Louisiana native to win this tournament, already has raised about $1.6 million through his foundation. On Wednesday, he teamed with one of his sponsors, Humana, to hand out $100,000 checks to four local groups trying to help children and families recover from Hurricane Katrina. One of those charities is Desire Street Academy, run by for­mer Heisman Trophy winner Danny Wuerffel. 
Mickelson wrote a $250,000 check last year to foundations run by Toms, Kelly Gibson and Hal Sutton. 
ahead and begun negotia­tions with two players," Casserly said. 
The public fervor for the team to pick Young hasn't died down since he declared for the NFL draft four days after his 467 -yard performance in the Rose Bowl. The latest example came when a local busi­nessman bought a full-page ad in Sunday's Houston Chronicle imploring Texans owner Bob McNair to draft Young. 
Casserly agreed the pres­sure from fans to pick Young has been unprece­dented. 
"People have asked me to think of a comparable situ­ation. I can't think of one," Casserly said . 
He had many glowing things to say about Young and said he understands the "fans' passion," but the Texans decided he wasn't right for the them. 
"When you're on this side of the table, the only thing that counts is winning," Casserly said. "You've got to do what you think is the best way to win, so you've got to eliminate all of those outside influences because at the end of the day all anybody cares about is the score on Sunday. 
"We dido't think it was the right decision to win the most games for us." 

Rookie Bo~er enjoying
fantastic Nextel Cup season 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -To gauge just how far Richard Childress Racing has come in its company­wide bid for improvement, look beyond Kevin Harvick's success and Jeff Burton's resurgence. 
The true indicator is Clint Bowyer, who quietly is having a tremendous rookie season and proving that Childress is committed to getting all three of his teams to the top. 
Bowyer is coming off his best run of the year, a fifth-place finish last weekend in Phoenix. He led 21 laps, his first time out front in a Nextel Cup race, and spent 269 of the 312 laps in the top 10. Harvick won the race and Burton finished ninth, making it a solid night for the Childress teams. 
But Childress wasn't around to see any of it. The car owner was on an African safari. 
Rafael Nadal wins 43rd 
consecutive clay court match 
BARCELONA, Spain -Top-seed­ed Rafael Nadal beat fellow Spaniard Feliciano Lopez 6-4, 6-2 Wednesday in the second round at the Open Seat Godo, earning his 43rd straight win on clay. 
The 19-year-old Nadal, the French Open and Godo champion, will play qualifier Ivan Navarro Pastor for a spot in the quarterfmals. Nadal is aim­ing to become the first player since Thomas Muster in 1995-96 to win back-to-back Godo titles. 
Earlier, lvo Karlovic from Croatia upset second-seeded Nikolay Davydenko 6-7 (7), 7-5, 6-4. Former champions Tommy Robredo, Juan Carlos Ferrero and Albert Costa also reached the third round. 
The No. 2 ranked Nadal convert­ed 3-of-4 break chances in the second set to avenge a loss in 2003 to the 24-year-old Lopez. in their only other meeting. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April27, 2006 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Bush pursuers lacked experience 
'I know for afact they never met 'With Reggie,' says industry expert 
Associated Press SAN DIEGO -A financial and tax consultant said the man who reportedly tried to land Heisman Trophy winner Heggie Bush for his startup sports marketing firm didn't have any experience in the business. David Heyes said he met with Michael C. Michaels and Lloyd Lake before they began court­ing Bush for New Era Sports & Entertainment LLC. Michaels and Lake, used Reyes' office address on a brochure for New Era Sports. The two men reportedly also attempted to compel Bush to sign with San Diego agent David Caravantes, who is certi­fied to negotiate NFL con­tracts. Caravantes represents six players, none of them con­sidered stars, according to NFL Players Association records. "I know for a fact they never met with Heggie," said Heyes, who advises pro athletes on how they can help minimize taxes on signing bonuses. "Quite honestly, I was con­cerned from the beginning with this whole deal with Heggie, as far as getting him," Heyes said. "Most people felt he was going to be a No. 1 
pick, and he was going with more of a known entity." 
Reyes also said he wasn't aware of Michaels and Lake having any marketing experi­ence. 
"This was all from scratch," Reyes said. "They didn't have the credentials." 
Bush didn't sign with New Era Sports or Caravantes, who did not return phone messages and e-mails seeking comment Tuesday. 
Bush's family lived in a house owned by Michaels for nearly a year. Yahoo.com reported Sunday that the fami­ly moved out last weekend after questions over its owner­ship arose. 
The Pac-1 0 said Sunday that it will investigate whether any NCAA rules were violated when Bush's family, including mother Denise Griffin, stepfa­ther LaMar Griffin and brother Jovan Griflin lived in the house in the San Diego suburb of Spring Valley while Bush was still playing for Southern California last season. NCAA rules prohibit student-athletes and their families from receiv­ing extra benefits from agents or their representatives. 
In an interview with ESPN on Monday, Bush said his par­ents leased the house but declined to say who paid the rent. 
Also on Tuesday, a powerful Indian tribe said Tuesday it had nothing to do with an attempt by Michaels, who is a 
member of the tribe, to steer 
Bush to New Era Sports. 
The Sycuan Tribe said it was approached last fall by Michaels. 
"There was a request to become partners in this New Era Sports," said Adam Day, Sycuan's assistant tribal man­ager. "Both the tribal council and the development corpora­tion board of directors refused to join into the business ven­ture." 
Michaels is an employee of the tribal development corpo­ration. He didn't immediately return phone calls Tuesday seeking comment. 
Also Tuesday, Day disputed unsworn court testimony in which Caravantes linked New Era Sports & Entertainment with Sycuan, which is located in eastern San Diego County and has annual revenue esti­mated at $250 million. 
During a parole violation hearing earlier this year for Lake, a documented gang member now serving time in prison for a probation viola­tion, Caravantes told the court that he and Lake "got together in October to start a new sports management company with Sycuan. Since October, Lloyd was a viable part of the company, helping recruit play­ers, and in the process of merging this New Era Sports with Sycuan," according to an account that was confirmed by Lake's former attorney Marc 
X. Carlos. 
NCAA lACROSSE 

Duke scandal stirs up n1en1ories for victims 
Counselors at colleges notice increase in calls from abused students 
Associated Press 

RALEIGH, N.C. -In the month since the Duke University rape scandal broke, campus counselors have been swamped with calls from sexu­al assault victims whose own painful memories have been stirred up, the head of the women's center says. 
"I will tell you that our psy­chologist ... has not had a moment to breathe since these allegations broke," said Donna Lisker, director of the Duke University Women's Center. "It's been very, very busy." 
An increase in calls from vic­tims of recent or long-ago assaults commonly occurs after a big case, a TV movie or something else focuses atten­tion on the issue, said Scott Berkowitz, head of the national Rape, Abuse and Incest National Network, which oper­ates a crisis hot line. 
At Duke, the sole staff psy­chologist at the Women's Center has been so inundated that several other staff mem­bers must help handle the calls and referrals, Lisker said. Lisker said she will not have numbers until July on how many people the center has helped this school year. 
Police and prosecutors often worry that a highly publicized case may drive victims under­ground, for fear their names, their pictures and details about their sex lives will turn up in the media. 
"We have to reassure them that it's not going to happen, that it's generally only in these high-profile cases that that happens," said Mark Hurlbert, the district attorney who pur­sued charges against NBA star Kobe Bryant in Colorado after he was accused of raping a hotel employee in 2003. 
Hurlbert said reports of rape, which had been rising steadily, went down in Eagle County, Colo., in the months after Bryant was charged. Prosecutors ended up dropping the case because the accuser said she did not want to go for­ward with a trial. 
In Durham, District Attorney Mike Nifong said he has seen no trend in rape reports in his area since the case broke. 
According to the U.S. Justice Department, 42 percent of sex­ual assault victims reported the attacks to police in 2001­04, up from 35 percent in 1997-2000 and 31 percent in the four-year period before that. 
This Sunday.. April30.. the follow in~ candidates will complete their initiation into the Catholic Churc·h by receivin~ the Sacran1ent of Confirmation at the 11=45 A.M. Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Please ~ep them in your prayers and join us in con~ratulatin~ them. 
RCIA­ 
University of Notre Dame  
Randall Henry Becker  
University of Notre Dame  Ashley Therese Ceniceros  St. Mary's College  
Ana Julia Bermudez  Jessica Mary Pollum  DouglasVincent Cummings  Jeney Annabela Anderson  
Jack Thomas Carroll  Peter lawrence Privon  Mary Clare Dorothy Rosenthal  Jessica Elizabeth Chmielewski  
Christine Alessandra Cartwright  William James Schoelwer  Erin Francis Murphy  Kathleen Marcia Mcinerney  
Elizabeth Theresa Clifton  DavidVincent Tagler  John Ambrose Rosenthal II  Sara Martha Nielsen  
Matthew Henry Edwards  Sarah Teresa Tarighi  Daniel Joseph Saken  Arlene leanllt' Forney  
Prisma Rita Garcia  Tashi Vitus l110mas  Deanna Mary Sheehan  
Nicole lucy Garton  Janelle Elizabeth Tretter  Eric FrancisVerkuilen  
Molly Brigid Griffin  Marshall Herbert Turner IU  
Christina Marie Hentges  Paul Michael Wasnick  
Caitlin Joan little  Anna Weber  
Caidin Willa McGinty  Mary Elizabeth Welch  
Mary Brigid McGregor  Christian lazarus Wilson  
David Michael Morris  

Christ the king Parish 
Holy Cross College 

Ryan Daniel Barry
David Michael Wilkerson 

Eleanor Christine Harding 
C-M 
Campus Mmistry 


NHL 
Forsberg's tvvo goals propel Flyers to first vvin over Sabres 
Brodeur stops 25 shots to collect 21st playoff shutout as Devils move within one game of eliminating New York 
Associated Press to a two-year, $11.5 million con­down an already struggling tract last summer. The Flyers Rangers' offense. 
PI!IIADELPIIIA -Often con­are an entirely different team The return of the injured Jagr sidered one of the premier hock­when Forsberg is (relatively) didn't help at all, and the Devils ey players in the world, Peter healthy and on top of his All-Star won their 14th straight game. Forsberg only needed to be the game. "He is a tremendous hockey best in Philadelphia to get the "Forsberg, I've always said, player so you've got to know if Flyers back into their playoff can win a game by himself," Ruff he is going to play or not," said series. said. "He's been through enough Brodeur, who is two shutouts 
Embarrassed after two road wars in the playoffs. He got a behind Patrick Roy for the NHL losses, Forsberg scored two couple of lucky bounces, but he career record. "Regardless of goals and Hobert Esche made 26 made a difference." him being there 100 percent or saves to give the Flyers some Esche, who was sensational in not there, it doesn't change the horne-icc tonic in a 4-2 victory Game 1 with 55 saves and strug­approach of our game." over the Buffalo Sabres on gled behind a shaky defense in New Jersey took advantage of Wednesday night. Game 2, was sharp in this one. New York's deficient special 
The Sabres still lead the best­He worked with a tighter teams in winning the opening of-seven series 2-1 with Game 4 defense to stuff the Sabers on two games of the series, and on Friday night, also in the power play, leaving them then built a commanding 3-0 Philadelphia. scoreless on seven opportunities. lead in the best-of-seven 
"I didn't feel any more pres­"We're locked in now," matchup by scoring three goals sure than anybody else," Hitchcock said. "Hopefully we at even strength. Forsberg said. "If we play the can make it really interesting." Not even the unexpected right way, we can play with return of Jagr, who is battling a these guys." New Jersey 3, New York 0 left shoulder injury, could spark 
The Flyers were humiliated in Martin Brodeur made the the Rangers in their first horne their six-goal loss on Monday heads of the New York Rangers playoff game in nine years. Petr night, and they were left looking sag as low as Jarornir Jagr's Sykora came the closest to scor­for an edge as coaches Ken achy shoulder. ing but he hit the post -for the Hitchcock of Philadelphia and The goaltender's job got a lot second straight game -when Buffalo's Lindy Ruff got into a easier when Patrik Elias facing an open net in the second verbal spat. wrecked the long-awaited play­period. 
Leave it to Forsberg, who led off party at Madison Square Jagr sat out Game 2 after he Sweden to an Olympic gold Garden just over a minute into was hurt late in the opening loss medal in Turin, to get Philly the game. at New Jersey and said it would going. Brodeur stopped 25 shots in take a miracle for him to be 
Forsberg put the Flyers ahead his 21st career playoff shutout ready to play Wednesday. for the first time in the series and Elias had a goal and assist Mission accomplished, but that midway through the second within the first 10 minutes to lift was nothing compared to what goal 3:38 into overtime third period with his third goal period with his first postseason the Devils to a victory the Rangers will need to rally in Wednesday night to give in two games. goal. He gave them a 3-1 cush­Wednesday night that pushed this series. Carolina a victory over the "At least it got us in the game ion with another one late in the Jagr and the Rangers to the Montreal Canadiens as the and gave us a chance to win it," period, and he never looked brink of playoff elimination. Carolina 2, Montreal 1 Hurricanes avoided falling into Brind'Amour said. "We didn't bothered by the groin injury that Elias set up Jamie Carolina felt like it finally an 0-3 hole in their first-round play great, our power play was­sidelined him for 22 games dur­Langenbrunner 68 seconds after caught a few breaks and the playoff series. n't too good but we were fortu­ing the regular season. the opening faceoff and then Hurricanes can only hope they Montreal's Tomas Plekanec nate enough to get another one 
Instead, Forsberg looked every scored his third goal of the came soon enough to get their was sent off for hooking 2:35 in overtime and make that one bit the superstar the Flyers series eight minutes later. playoff run back on track. into overtime and Staal won it work." expected when they signed him Brodeur did the rest in shutting Eric Staal scored a power-play with a drive from the point that Rookie Cam Ward stopped 27 
went through traffic and past · shots in his first career playoff goalie Cristobal Huet. start as the second-seeded Huet said he lost sight of the Hurricanes recovered from two
Attention 
puck and knew it was bad news home losses to draw within 2-1 when the raucous Bell Centre in the best-of-seven series. 
crowd of 21,273 suddenly went "I was thinking before the silent. game how exciting it was to 
J-UNIORS 
interested in 
"We needed the win," Staal have my first playoff start in said. "I didn't get as much wood Montreal and what the atmos­
teaching English abroad 
on it as I would have liked, but I phere was going to be like," found the back of the net with a Ward said. "It only would have
for one year after graduation: 
good screen in front." been fitting if we won and fortu­Carolina's Rod Brind'Amour nately we were able to rally in 

tied the game 11:27 into the the end." 
Come to an information meeting with Professor Alain Toumayan on 
FULBRIGHT ENGLISH TEACHING ASSISTANTSHIPS 
Thursday, April 27 at 6pm in 117 DeBartolo 

Become stronger, smarter and more prepared to face any challenge. With over 150 careers to choose from, the Army is your chance to make a dilference in your life and in the future of your country. Find out more at GOARMY.COM or calll-800-USA-ARMY. 
Where: 413 W. McKinley, Mishawaka, IN 
When: Monday-Friday, 9am-6pm 

If you cannot attend but would like information, please contact the Fellowships Office 105 O'Shag fellows@nd.edu 
For additional information call 
574-252-5319 
or visit 
GOARMY. 


• 
page 20 The Observer + SPO_RITS Thursday, April 27, 2006 
NBA 
Prince scores 22 as Pistons leap over Bucks, grab 2-0 lead 
Mavericks take advantage of Grizzlies' 10-minute scoring drought, Nowitzki's 31 points to defeat Memphis 
Associated Press "We'rn not playing Milwaukee 12 points and eight rebounds. -we're playing ourselves," Antonio MeDyess (13) and 
AUBURN IIII.I.S, Mich. -The Pistons coach Flip Saunders Lindsey Hunter (1 0) added scor­Dntroit Pistons have made two said. "If guys have that ing puneh off the bench. major improvnnwnts ovnr tlwir approach, you won't have let­"A sign of a good team is good rncnnt runs to the NBA Finals: downs." balance," Bucks coach Terry offnnsn. and playing (;arno 2s. Bucks star Michael Redd Stotts said. "Any of their guys 
Tayshaun Princn scon~d 22 bounced back from an 11-point ean make plays to start runs or points and ChaurH:ny Billups had game with 29. stop runs." 20 to load Dotroit to a 1 09-9H "We made adjustments to try Milwaukee reserve guard victory over tlw Milwaukee to get me open in better posi­Maurice Williams limped off the Bucks on Wndrwsday night.. and tions," Hedd said. court late in the third quarter a 2-0 lead in their first-round But Hedd didn't get much help after turning an ankle, depleting snries. in the first half as Milwaukee's a team already without backup 
Tho two-time defending other starters each scored six or forward Toni Kukoc because of 1\astorn Confornnee champion fewer points before halftime. back spasms. Pistons had lost three straight T.J. Ford was Redel's only team­Ford had 17 points, reserve Game 2s and four of their last mate to finish with more than 10 Charlie Bell seored 11 and l'ivo, dating to the 2004 NBA points. Andrew Bogut, the first overall Finals. Before that stretch, Game 3 is Saturday night in pick last year, added eight points Detroit lost to Milwaukee two Milwaukee. and 13 rebounds. Bobby years ago in the second game of "We've done nothing," Billups Simmons scored 10. their first-round series en route said. "We've held serve with The Pistons displayed their to the title. home-court advantage." balance from the start, with 
"We k rww all about that," Hichard Hamilton, who left each starter scoring to give them Billups said. "The difference Game 1 with a sprained left a 10-Slead. with us now is that wn're going ankle, had 18 points and eight "That's how we beat people," to stay aggressive throughout assists in 33 minutes. He had Billups said. "We know there is nach serios, and we're not going eight points in the lirst 10 min­strength in numbers. We go into to got overconfident if WB win utes before going to the sideline games not knowing what Game 1s." after aggravating his injury, and matchup we're going to attack, 
Detroit appeared motivated in the third quarter, he had the we just go with the flow." from the start. a had sign for the lower part of his left leg Bucks, and a 12-0 run midway wrapped. After the game, Dallas 94, Memphis 79 through the seeond quartnr gave Hamilton said the injury was not The jerseys said Memphis. the Pistons a cushion they main­serious. Otherwise, they might've been tainnd for thn rest of the night. Detroit's Hasheed Wallace had mistaken for the Vancouver cost us," All-Star forward Pau Bryant's emphatic stuff with 
Grizzlies. Gasol said. "It was frustrating 3:13 left put the Lakers ahead 
Although the former lottery the way we were turning the 92-H3. Nash was called for a foul regulars have become a first­ball over and giving it back to on the play, but Bryant missed round playoff staple since mov­them without making them the free throw. ing to Memphis, the Grizzlies work." Bell scored six in a row, the regressed to their bad old days Nowitzki scored 21 in the lirst last a 20-footnr at tho shot eloek Wednesday night, going 16 half, helping Dallas take a 13-buzzer to cut the lead to 92-89 straight possessions without a point lead into the break. When with 1:51 to play. But he missed point and 10:47 between baskets Memphis' woes continued in the a 3-pointer that would have tied in a loss to the Dallas Mavericks. second half, the Mavericks it. Smush Parker scored inside 
Dallas' Dirk Nowitzki scored seemed to go through the and Luke Walton sank two free 31 points to drop Memphis to 0-motions the rest of the game. throws to put Los Angeles ahead 2 in this series and 0-10 in its It hardly mattered, either. 96-89 with 34.5 seeonds to go. playofl' history. That's four more When the Mavs went through a Phoenix went 7:22 without losses than any NBA team has stretch of six straight misses and scoring while the Lakers reeled ever had before its lirst postsea­three turnovers, the Grizzlies off' 19 points to open a 38-22 son victory. could only turn it into four lead on Jim Jackson's 20-footer 
Halfway to being swept for a points. with 6:17 left in the half. third straight year, the Grizzlies The Suns went without a point at least have the benefit of head­Los Angeles 99, Phoenix 93 from the 1:30 mark of the lirst ing home for Game 3 on Kobe Bryant and the Los quarter to 6:0H left in the sec­Saturday. Angeles Lakers pulled it off on a ond, clanking one jumper after 
"We've got two days to fix cold night in the desert for the another ofT the rim. what went wrong," center Phoenix Suns. While Nash was shooting 4-of-Lorenzen Wright said. "We have Bryant had 29 points and 10 5 and scoring 15 points, the rest to hold on to our home court, rebounds, Lamar Odom scored of the Suns were 2-for-20 before and that's what we plan to do." 21 points, and the Lakers held Bell rattled in a 20-footer cut the 
Memphis actually played great off a late rally to beat the Suns lead to 38-24. at the start, leading by four Wednesday night and square the With 3:02 left in the half, points early in the second quar­best-of-seven series 1-1. Bryant went to the bench with ter. It all fell apart in a run of Game 3 is Friday night in Los three fouls, two o!' them on missed shots and turnovers that Angeles. offensive fouls drawn by Bell. spilled into the third quarter, the Steve Nash had 29 points and The Suns eut it to 45-36 on Bell's halftime break not lasting long Raja Bell 23 for the Suns, who 3-pointer 2:16 before the break. enough to snap the spell. shot 43 percent -34 percent in But Odom sank a 3-pointer, 
Many of the Grizzlies' mis­the lirst half. Kwame Brown converted a takes were offensive fouls. They Los Angeles led by as many as three-point play and Parker even lost a point on a lane viola­17 points late in the second made two free throws after a tion. quarter and early in the third flagrant foul against Brian Grant 
"We just got out of the game after Phoenix went nearly 7 1/2 with 45 seeonds to go to put Los for a few minutes and that really minutes without a point. Angeles up 53-36. 




Graduation Weekend: Your stomach will thank you. 
After four years ond over 3,027 dorm meals, you deserve ot leost one outstanding meol thot isn't served on odining hull troy. 

Now taking reservations for Graduation Weekend Dinners: Thursday, Friday and Saturday from 3pm to Midnight. 
www.UnionStationMishawaka.com 

steaks • c h 0 p s • seafood 
AA MINI WAREHOUSE B: STORAGE 3 Convenient Locations for Your Storage Needs Call us TODAY! 
5510 Shaugn St 816 E McKinley Ave 5213 N Grape Rd 271-1105 259-0335 272-4434 
$10 OFFAT MCKINLEY FOR FIRST MONTH'S RENT AND FREE LOCK 
with purchase of Unit 
valid with student ID expires 515106 
.. 
Thursday, April 27, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
LPGA
NBA 
Dovvd receives chance
Injuries continue to cripple Pacers 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS The Indiana Pacers hoped they could get through the playoffs relatively healthy, but those hopes vanished before and during their Game 2 loss at New Jersey. 
The Pacers enter Game 3 on Thursday with starters Peja Stojakovic and Stephen Jackson and reserve Jamaal Tinsley nursing injuries. The situation is all too familiar for a team that has used 32 start­ing lineups this season while player after play'er has gone down. 
Stojakovic had a nagging right knee injury that flared up less than an hour before Game 2, and the Pacers told him to sit out. lie was unsure whether he will play Thursday. 
"It feels a little better," he said after watching Wednesday's practice. "The swelling is still there. Maybe with another 24 hours of rest and treatment, I'll be able to play." 
The decision could be a major factor in the outcome of Game 3. Stojakovic averaged 
19.5 points in 40 regular-sea­son games with the Pacers and is their top perimeter player .• 
"Offensively, he can shoot it from wherever on the floor and can stretch a defense," New Jersey guard Jason Kidd said. "He's a big threat. They missed him in Game 2 and we all expect him to play in Game 3." 
Jackson, the Pacers' starter at shooting guard, bent his right pinkie finger back on his last play during Game 2. He couldn't shoot during practice on Wednesday, though an X­

AP Indiana forward Stephen Jackson, along with teammates Peja Stojakovic and Jamaal Tinsley, will miss Game 3 against New 
Jersey due to injury. 
ray found no breaks. 
"We know he's going to play because he plays, but we're concerned about it because it is his shooting hand," Indiana coach Rick Carlisle said. · 
Tinsley, a backup point guard, was activated Tuesday after missing the previous four games with an Achilles' injury. He played Game 2 in pain and was -limited during Wednesday's practice. 
The injuries came after the Pacers snatched homecourt advantage away from the Nets with a 90-88 Game 1 win. But the 90-7 5 loss in Game 2 and the injuries make the Pacers 
vulnerable to giving that advantage back. 
The flip side of the situation is that the Pacers are used to the injury bug. 
"We've been faced with that challenge all year," said Jermaine O'Neal, who missed 31 games this season. "We've got to find ways to step up. Everybody's got to bring some­thing else to the table at a higher level and pick up for some of the slack." 
Carlisle said Stojakovic will start if he can play Thursday, but he could struggle on defense against New Jersey's athletic lineup. 

FALL 

MODEL OPEN WED-FRI 12-6PM SAT-SUN 12-5PM 

i:t..'W1---~

to• 
~ 
~ 
: 
!@
j' 
l-1".4~ 

to fulfilliTioiTI's dreaiTI 

Annika Sorenstam, Lorena
NOW SELLING 
Ochoa and just about everyone 
else in the top 50 on the money list. But Dakoda has received UNITS 
FROM THE 1705 

more attention than any of AVAILABLE FOR 
them, and for good reason.
574-273-2000 

Sponsor's exemption allows 13-year-old to play in tournament 
Associated Press 
REUNION, Fla. -After Kelly J o Dowd was diagnosed with cancer for the second time in four years last May, she started setting aside days to spend with· her 13-year-old daughter, Dakoda. 
Sometimes they shop. Sometimes they get manicures and pedicures. Sometimes they just hang out and listen to music. Regar..dless of the "moth­er/daughter day" agenda, they try to create a lasting memory. 
There's a good chance the Ginn Clubs & Resorts Open will provide an experience even more special. 
Dakoda Dowd received a sponsor's exemption to play in the event near Orlando, fulfill­ing her mother's dying wish to see her little girl compete against the world's best. She will tee off Thursday in the opening round. · 
"I don't even know how to explain it," Kelly Jo said Wednesday. "This is a dream come true for me, and if you've ever had a dream come true for you, you know it's very intense emotions that go along with it. I know that I'll break down. There will be tears of joy and tears of happiness." 
Dakoda has spent the last six months preparing for the event. She played the course several times and handled numerous int~rviews, all in hopes of mak­
ing this a defining moment for her and her cancer-stricken mother. 
"Six months turned into like six days," said the bubbly teen with plenty of game. "It went by really fast. I'll be nervous, but I can't wait." 
The full-field event includes 
She started playing golf when she was four, using .cut-down clubs and taking tips from her father, Mike. But it didn't take 
-WALK TO CAMPUS 
long for her to start getting around courses better than him. 
She took lessons, continued to improve and eventually won countless junior events. She started thinking about compet­ing on the LPGA Tour, but she never thought it would happen this soon. 
Her mother made it possible. 
A former Hooters calendar girl who worked her way into the company's management team, Kelly Jo noticed a lump in her breast in 2001. At first, she didn't do anything about it. Ten months later, at age 36, she was diagnosed with breast cancer. She had a double mastectomy, nearly two dozen lymph nodes removed and endured intense chemotherapy. 
She thought she had it beat ­until last May, when doctors found the cancer had returned and was much worse than before. It was in her hip bone, her liver and was nearing her spine. 
Bobby Ginn, the CEO of Ginn Clubs and Resorts, heard about the family's fight and extended Dakoda an invitation to play in the inaugural event. 
"We had to decide: Are we going to shy away or stand up?" said Mike Dowd, a school coun­selor in Palm Harbor. "We decided that we wanted to stand up. We wanted to get the message out there. It's very important to be able to say to women, 'Do your shower exams, ·get your mammograms and love each other and perse­vere through this.' 
"We can't kid anybody. This is an extremely difficult thing we're dealing with as a family, but I've got great women." 
Dakoda has handled the attention well. She played a practice round Tuesday with Sorenstam and Paula Creamer and seemed unfazed by the cameras and reporters follow­ing her every move and all the interviews that came after. 
"The key for her is just to come out, enjoy it, absorb the atmosphere," Sorenstam said. "It's a fantastic plac'<l to be. I told her, 'Enjoy this week. This is what this is all about.' It's more about being part of the whole thing and just being able to fulfill a dream. It's pretty cool." 
-2-3 STORY FLOORPLANS -2 CAR ATTACHED GARAGES -2.5+ BATHROOMS -2-4 BEDROOMS 
; 
VISIT OUR FURNISHED MODEL OR DUBUINVlLLAGE.COM 
435 ABBEY ST. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 SSM ITH@COOREMAN.COM 


page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April27, 2006 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

USC: NFL 'football factory' 
Associated Press 
LOS ANCELES -Sean Salisbury shook his head in wondernwnt as he surveyed the scnrw on the Southnrn California campus, where 19 former USC players worked out for some 100 NFI. representa­tivns. 
"Thnre an~ sornn guys hnrn from a plarwt you and r arnn 't familiar with." thn former USC and N Fl. quarterback and cur­nmt ESI'N analyst said. "This is as good as I've ever seen in a group of athletes. It's ridinr­lous." 
Salisbury's observations wern typical of thosl' on hand earlier this month. when Trojans coach l'etn Carroll cornbinnd pro day with junior day, an annual event wlwre stwnral prospedive high school recruits tour thn campus. 
That's Carroll -always thinking. And that's onn of thn main n~asons USC has become an NFI. factory again al'tnr sonw dif'lkult limns that mir­ron~d its football fortunes. 
Most prospects take part in tlw N Fl. corn bine at Indianapolis nvery February, but several schools hold tlwir own pro days. 
Fnw resPmble thn one at 
usc. 
"I have rHWI'r seen a pro day like this," said Cil Brandt, a longtinw nxenrtive with the Dallas Cowboys who's now a senior analyst and draft guru for NFL.com. "It was a llollywood production without the rPd carpt>t. They had every­thing organiwd down to the minute. 
''I've known Petn for a long, long time. lin's got a lot of bouncn in his step, he's got a lot of innovative and creative ideas." 


And. obviously, Carroll has successfully recruited a lot of exceptional players since becoming USC's coach in 2001, nnabling him to turn the mmliocrn program he took over into powerhouse. 
"I think you start with win­ning," said Mike Mayock, a dral't analyst for the NFL Nntwork in explaining USC's success in the draft. "Pete has brought that magic back to Troy. They're recruiting nation­ally, and not a lot of programs <:an do that suceessfully." 
The Trojans were 6-6 in Carroll's first season, making them 37-35 from 1996-2001. They're 48-4 since, and the future appears at least as 
bright as the recent past. 

That's assuming, of course, the Trojans don't get in trouble over the living arrangement of Heggie Bush's family at a home owned by a man who reported­ly sought to market him. 
BLish said Monday there was· nothing inappropriate because his family leased the house. The Pac-Hl is investigating whether any NCAA rules were violated when Bush's family lived in tlw Spring Valley, Calif., house while Bush was still playing for USC last s<-mson. 
NCAA rules prohibit student­athletes and their families !'rom receiving extra benefits from agents or their representatives. 
Most of the 19 former USC players who worked out for pro scouts and coaches April 2 fig­ure to be drafted this weekend. 
INTERNATIONAL BOXING 
Fe111ale boxers pushing the boundaries in Israel 
Associated Press 

UMM EL FAHM, Israel -Hiham Agabaria has a left hook that will knock your socks off. Or your head scarf. 
Sparring in her hometown in northern Israel, the shy 15­ycar-old lets loose a strike that brushes back the traditional Muslim headdress of her oppo­nent -younger sister Fatma: who is forced to flee to the restroom to rearrange her hijab. 
"I recommend every girl try boxing," said Hiham, panting from behind a light-blun head scarf after a two-hour workout. "It gives you conl'idence and teaches you how to proteet yourself'." 
With their unusual hobby, Hiham and her 13-year-old sis­ter have blazed a trail for other mligious Muslim girls in Israel, and have sparked a debate within their own traditional society. 
Influenced by their more lib­eral Jewish neighbors, Israeli Arab women _have bnen eneouraged to push the bound­aries l'urther than their peers elsewhtwe in the Middle East. Still, for young religious girls expected to keep to a tradition­al seeondary role. the Agabaria sisters have managed to ruf'lle more than a few feathers by venturing into the strietly mas­culine domain of boxing. 
Experts say there is nothing in Islam that directly bars women from sporting activities such as boxing, but many in this traditional hilltop town of 40,000 were skeptical when Touliq Agabaria started train­ing his daughters and, more troublingly, allowing them to l'ight boys. A local religious leader even issued a decree against tlw swinging sisters. 
Toufiq Agabaria, a former Israeli boxing ehampion, sees nothing wrong with it. 
"Sports is one thing and rPii­gion is another," he said. "As long as IboxingI is not opposed to the tradition of Islam. I think it is positivn.". 
Agabaria's daughters hold national age-group champi­onships for girls in the lsranl Boxing Assoeiation -though they're somewhat dubious titles, because there aren't many ehallengt~rs. 
lsranl's 1.4 million Arab citi­zens makn up roughly one-firth of the population. They are often on the sidelinn of main­stream society, particularly women who are restricted by the traditional confines of tlw family. 
Hn<:ently, a Muslim woman from Haifa won the Israeli equivalent ol' the TV reality show "America's Next Top Model," which included hnr po!!ing in skimpy drnss. Following the victory, she was ostracized by some family and friends and derided by her community as a bad influence on girls. 
Touf'iq Agabaria said boxing does nothing to diminish the faith or the dignity of his daughters. On the contrary, he said, the Quran is full of tales of women in battle, including one involving the prophet Muhammad's wife. 
NFL 

Young experiences draft rollercoaster, unsure of position 
Associated Press 
Nobody quite knows what to make of Vince Young. 
A quarterback'? For sure. The best one on this weekend's draft board'? Well, it's funny how a playnr's stock ean rise and fall in the span of weeks and months. 
The Texas quarterback, one of the best "athletes" in the draft. once struggled so much with the Longhorns that some felt he'd be better oil' at another position~ These days, that con­versation is long gone. But so is some of the luster from his Hose Bowl performance, a game in which he led the Longhorns to the national title and, at least for a time, surpassed USC's Matt Leinart in many opinions as the best quarterback. maybe the best player, in the draft. 
"It's b tlfl n kind of up and down," said ESPN draft expert Mel Kiper, who most recently rated Young tlw fourth-best player available. "But my atti­tude is that any quarterback taken in thn draft is going to be a projm~t." 
Floyd Hense, gmwral manager for the Tennessee Titans, who are considering taking Young with the third pkk, said "I don't think I've snpn a quarterback with the athletieism hn has. and we had St<we McNair for a while." 
Indeed, Young's athleticism is stunning. And his timing was impeccable. He showed off the whole package, playing for the national title on Jan. 4 in the Rose Bowl. lie passed for 267 yards, ran for 200 more and scrambled 8 yards on fourth down with 19 seconds left for the winning touchdown -his third of the night-in a 41-38 win over Leinart and USC. 

It was sweet redemption for the junior out of Houston, who was bitterly disappointed after losing the Heisman Trophy to USC's Reggie Bush. And Young outplayed Leinart, who came into the game viewed as the better, more polished, more NFL-ready quarterback. 
Suddenly. a player who wasn't even sure if he would leave Texas looked like he might be the best player in the college game. He decided to go pro. With his hometown team, the Houston Texans, picking first, many thought it would be a perfect fit. 
"I walked into the grocery store the other day and some guy was hollering Vince's name at me from three aisles over," said Houston's new coach, Gary Kubiak. "I've been places where people are talking about Heggie Bush. I guess I don't see it that way as mueh as some 
· people may see it." 
Like most eoaches who have seen Young work out, Kubiak said he was impressed. Still, the Texans signed David Carr to a three-year extension in February, signaling they're set at quarterback for a while. On Wednesday, they said they will select either Bush or North Carolina State defensive end Mario Williams. 
"There's too much time from 
the end of the season until draft 
time, so everyone gets over-cri­
tiqued," Longhorns coach Mack 
Brown said. 

There is, indeed, a lot of time for opinions to change after the gleam of the championship game fades. 
That's especially true for a player like Young, the likes of which nobody has seen before, the kind of player who doesn't fit a partieular mold. 
"He has the size, the accuracy and the throwing action," Ravens coach Brian Billick said. "He's a spectacular talent, but he doesn't look like anybody. So that tends to make us all nerv­ous. He gets downgraded for that." 
There is the widely reported 6 out of a possible 50 that he scored on the Wonderlic test at the NFL scouting combine. NFL officials denied that score was correct and Young's agent, Major Adams, said Young scored a 16 the next day, when the test was readministered. Hegardless, the Wonderlic con­troversy fed into doubts about Young's ability to run an NFL 'offense. 
There are issues about his 
arm strength and his awkward, 
sidearm delivery. 

There is the fact he played 
almost exclusively out of the 
shotgun in college. 

There is his decision to hire 
Adams, a family friend who has 
made a handful of unorthodox 
decisions on behalf of his client 
-for instance, having Young 
skip workouts at the NFL com­
bine, but participate in a made­
for-TV "All Star Challenge" in 
Miami in early February. 

There is his penchant to think 
run first, which worked at the 
college level but hasn't proven 
to work in the pros, as the 
Michael Vick experience in 
Atlanta is showing. 

But, says Billick, "lie really 
doesn't fit into that Vick catego­
ry." 

He doesn't really lit into any 
category. 

Maybe because of it, Young 
has hardly acted like a player 
who thinks he'll be chosen in 
the top live. 

Since the NFL combine, he 
has had a successful workout in 
Austin, and has traveled the 
country for more individual 
workouts and interviews with 
teams stopping in 
Minneapolis, St. Louis, Oakland, 
Cleveland, Baltimore, Miami 
and Houston for a workout with 
the Jets. 

Scouts want to see him with 
their own eyes 'find coaches want to sit down and talk to him to find out what kind of person he really is. 
Adams did not respond to several Associated Press requests to interview Young for this story. 
The quarterback did tell his hometown paper, the Houston Chronicle, that he keeps push­ing forward, ignoring the critics and hoping for the best. 
"I don't listen to negative things from people that don't understand the game," Young said. "When I hear positive things, it shows people that know football are really paying attention." 
Indeed, it's hard not to pay attention to a player like Vince Young. lie is 6-foot-4, 229 pounds. He runs the 40 in 4.57 seconds, nearly 0.30 seconds faster than Leinart. He has a laser of an arm, but nobody is quite sure how he'll use it in the NFL. 
He is projected as almost any­thing. Some sec a classic, strong-armed, stand-in-the­pocket passer. Others see a scrambling playmaker. Still oth­ers envision a hybrid, someone who could play more than quarterback -kind of like Kordell Stewart, only morn tal­ented. 
"lie's a projection," Kiper said. "Anyone who takes him has to know that." 
Thursday, April27, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
fRYOUfS 
as hot as we did," Gumpfsaid. Jaquish grounded out to short­Notre Dame added three more stop with the bases loaded to end
Purdue 

workshop 1: Thurs Apr 27 
6:30~9:30pm 1stc fri AIJr 28 6:30~9:3 m 
workshop 2: Sat Apr 29 11:00·2:00pm 
Final c r30 4:00w1: pm 
Trvouts will take place in 'the Pit" olthe JACC 

SUBS SO fAST

WORLD'S GREATEST SANDWICH DELIVERY 
YOU'LL fREAK! 

SOUTH BEND JIMMY 
54570 N. IRONWOOD DR. -574.277.8500 JOHNS 
l•l•il

MISHAWAKA 5343 N. MAIN ST. -574.968.4600 COM 
continued from page 28 
inning. The one run was scored on a passed ball shortly after Booth reentered, but it was charged to Fuemmeler. 
The real story of game, though, was the Notre Dame offense. Junior Stephanie Brown led off the game with a single to the left side. The floodgates opened from there. Three batters later, Brown and shortstop Sara Schoonaert scored on a Meagan Ruthruaff single. Ruthrauff later crossed the plate on a Katie Laing dou­ble. 
Later in the inning right fielder Carrisa Jaquish homered to give Notre Dame its fourth and fifth runs of the inning. 
"We've been hitting the ball pretty well lately, knock on wood, but I didn't expect us to come out runs in the third inning when catcher Mallorie Lenn hit a home run over the left field wall. Ruthrauff scored her run on freshman Linda Kohan's single to center. Outfielder Beth Northway pinch ran for Kohan and scored on a bases-loaded walk. 

The Irish scored their final run on another Kohan single. 
Purdue pitcher Melissa Burns started the first game and pitched the majority of the sec­ond game in relief. Over the two games, Burns pitched nine innings and gave up two earned runs on 10 hits. 
The crushing blow for the Irish in the second game was a sixth inning three-run homer by Erica Peterson over the right field wall. The bomb gave the Boilermakers a commanding 7-2 lead. 
Notre Dame threatened to score in the seventh inning but 
The UPS Store 
"May Move Out '06" NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 10am-5pm 9am-5pm -Fri, Sat,Mon 
the threat and the game. 
Bargar pitched all seven innings for the Irish in the loss, bringing her season record to 16-4. She gave up eight hits, walked two and hit two. 
"She got behind a lot, I wish we could've played around a lit­tle more but we never got the chance," said Gumpf. 
Bargar struggled to throw strikes consistently all game. Three Purdue runs were scored by players who had walked or reaehed after being hit by a pitch. 
Booth returns to the mound tomorrow when the Irish travel to Valparaiso. The two teams were supposed to play Tuesday, but the game was cancelled due to weather. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Friday )une 9, 2006 • 8:00pm Morris Performing Arts Center South Bend, Indiana 
Tickets go on saler Saturday flpril 19 at 10:00om ot Morris Box Officer. Charger by phoner 574/135-9190 or onliner www.morrlscernterr.org 

UMIT 10 TICKETS PER PERSOHI 


page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, April 27, 2006 
takes them out of contention. years. There's always some hope and Walsh burst onto the college
Walsh 

always something that can scene with 32 assists and 20 happen. goals in his freshman cam­
continued from page 28 

"You try to keep it optimistic paign -helping him become son. and stay positive. We're going Notre Dame's first freshman 
And with a three and a half to try to win the next two and All-American when Inside point pnr ganw avnragn, thn make it tough for the commit­Lacrosse awarded him honor­Wantagh, N.Y. nalivn is on tnn not to put us in the tour­able mention status. pace to tie sncond-plae11 point nny." Irish head coach Kevin man Mike Sullivan ('92), whosn Above any of the individual Corrigan attributed the early 17S total points outnumbnrs accolades, Walsh has always and continued success of Notre Walsh's goals and assists by evaluated his play in his ability Dame's first four-time All­snvnn. to help his team win -dating American to his in-and-out 
Despitn boasting such gaudy baek to his New York state knowledge of the game. 
rurmbers, Walsh is quint about championship at Wantagh "Pat is an intuitivo player," his own aecomplishmnnls. To ll igh Sehool in Long Island and Corrigan said. "That's ono of him. his last two gamns arn his gold mndal in the the things about how he plays not a ehanen to build statistics, lntnrnational Lacrosse -he doesn't overanalyze what but a chancn to narn two morn Fndnration under-19 Junior he does. lie has a good sense wins. World Championships. of the game, he fnels that 
As the Irish sit at S-4 (3-2 "It was derinitnly a major game and he knows intuitively CWLI.) on thn snasor1 as lnsidn goal of mine when I came here what he does. That's the beau­Lacrossn's No. 15 tnam. llwir to makn it to the tournament. ty or the way he plays... tournanwnl hopns lipton on makn thn Final Four and win No matter where Walsh, who thin iee. Tlwy rwnd strong pnr­thn national championship," talks regularly with Notre formanc:ns against Ohio Stale Walsh said. Dame's all-time assist leader, ( (,-5 , 3-1 G WI. L) and Walsh's college career has David Ulrich. l'inishes on the <)uinnipiae (6-5, 1-3 (;WLL) to bec~n a process of selling goals all-time lists, Corrigan, who convince tlw tournamnnt eom­and -for the most part -has coached many Irish stars millne to invite tlwm to tlw 16-aehinving. sinee he arrived in South Bend tnam lield. "EvcHy year I've played I in 19SS, recognizes his plaee 
Walsh's snnior class has always set goals for myself," among the Irish. rwvnr played in tlw postsea­lw said. "If you don't set goals "Pat was a little like all of son. despite missing the field thnre is nothing to work them," Walsh said. "As an by !HlP spot on multiple occa­towards." assist guy, you have Sullivan sions. And once llw automatic Frnshman year. his goal was and Ulrich, who are great bids of confernnee champions starting. which he did. feeders. Both guys relted on are takcm into account. Notre Then he became determined their quickness. and Pat relied 
Irish attack Pat Walsh moves upfield in an 8-7 win over Dartmouth
Damn will rwml somn late lwlp. to load his team in points, on his savvy-ness." 
April 2. With at least two games left in his career, the senior Is In
"Wn're taking it oncn game which he has all three years. That's not to say his success 
Notre Dame's top ten all-time in points, goals and assists. 
at a tirnn," Walsh said. "II' wn Them his goal was to earn All­came easily. Corrigan said win the m~xl two, we're 10-4. Amnrican recognition follow­Walsh worked tirelessly to If a couple of people losn it ing, which he has all four improve his game. And Walsh that much more memorable, asked a lot and demanded a 
echoed his coach when for better or worse. lot of himself and I think it was describing his qwn work ethic "It's just fun going against a not really in nature to be over the last four years. player of his capability clay in demanding of other people. 
"Me and Coach Anderson and clay out and see the plays Essentially, he leads by the would meet at the beginning of he's making in practice," example that he expects a lot eaeh year to talk about what I Driscoll said. "But it's definite­of himself and demands a lot need to do to improve -ly frustrating at times, too." of himself. That's been his MO whether it's shooting or deci­The captain also appreciates while he's been here." sion making," Walsh said. Walsh's leadership on the field. Corrigan's point was made so "Freshman year I made a lot of After the team voted Driscoll clear last Sunday, when Walsh mistakes turning the ball over and senior midfielder Drew lifted the Irish onto 5-foot-8 a lot because I was trying to Peters captains, Corrigan 183 lbs. frame, scoring three make a play. Over time I had adopted a council-system simi­of his four goals in the last better control, not turning the lar to that employed by foot­period to lift the Irish to a 10-7 ball over as much and under­ball coach Charlie Weis that victory against Lehigh, despite standing the offense a little includes seniors Walsh, mid­an illness that has kept him better." fielder Matt Karweck and goal­out of Tuesday and 
Walsh's teammates have tender Dan Hickey. Wednesday's practices. taken notice. Senior co-captain "He's definitely clearly the "Doctor's orders," Walsh defenseman D.J. Driscoll said most talented player on our said, adding -between Walsh helped improved his team and people look up to coughs -that he would have own game. Driscoll was reeog­him, and he has embraced that practiced Wednesday if he was nizecl last year as the Great role this year," Driscoll said. allowed. ''I'll be fine by Western Lacrosse League "He comes and gets his busi­Saturday. l played through it Defensive Player of the Year. ness done. He's a no-nonsense Sunday, and if I need to, I will 
"He's a tremendous talent," type of kid. He knows what he again." Driscoll said. "Going against wants and he works day in and Not to for the chase of any him every clay for four years day out for that." records, though. according to has definitely taught me how Because he has high expec­Corrigan. The ehancfl to fight to play against sueh a good tations of himself, Walsh's cur­for a playoff spot is motivation attackman. He's such a good rent role did was something enough. feeder and such a good finish­into which he had to grow, "lie would trade every goal er. His stick protection has according to Corrigan. and assist he's made to play in helped me develop my "Personally, he has matured an NCAA tournament and checks." and taken on a leadership role showcase himself on the stage 
Overall, Driscoll said Walsh on this team," Corrigan said. he would most like to play." has helped make his four years "He's a kid who has always Corrigan said. 


KXC-RQ----~~ 
SATURDAY, APRil 29 

WOMIEN'S IACRISSE
IS., SYRA.CISE 
@NIIN 
' · ' .J ' ~

ME.·N'S· · ta•a~a·.... ;I i ·ssE·' u·s· 1111•11,E·
Admission Is 

FREE @3:11PM WLAX GOLD GAME 
FIRST 200 FANS AT 

THE WOMEN'S GAME Street Signs & Jlmmv John's Sandwiches Will GET AGOLD 10 earlv tans a1 bolh games GAMES I-SHIRT 

If the Irish come up short of the tournament again this year, Walsh said he has still treasured his time at Notre Dame and still appreeiates the significance of his accomplish­ments. 
"It's definitely an honor," Walsh said. "It's not something I step on the field with, but it's something that when it's all done it's nice to have there." 
Whether it is in two games or more, whenever the Irish season -and Walsh's career -comes to an end, all those moments Walsh flashed num­bers up the scoreboard will find permanence in the Irish lacrosse archives as one of the greats. But judging by the respect Walsh has earned from coaches and teammates throughout his four years, few will forget him -with or with­out the records. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdouger@nd.edu 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, April 27, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
The Falcons immediately from the Irish over the course capitalized with an HBI single of the game.
Loss 
up the middle from first base­In the fifth inning Cooper hit man Marty Baird. They contin­a dying fly ball to right field
continued from page 28 
ued to pound Gruener with two that Falcon fielder Alex Foster 
doubles for three runs sand­caught with a shoestring catch Georgetown Mar. 25 in the first wiched around second base­-a safe landing would have game of a doubleheader and man Chris Gacom 's two-run scored Rizzo from second base. the opening game of their Big bloop single over third base. Gaston ran through a stop East season slate -and in the Bowling Green catcher Josh sign at third base in the sixth meantime set the Notre Dame Stewart extended the lead to 7-inning that led to the final out. record for consecutive wins 0 on a double error by Notre Left fielder Matt Bransfield and secured the longest win Dame. Stewart ripped a bounc­doubled to the left field fence streak in collegiate baseball so ing grounder through shortstop but the relay throw nailed far this season. Jeremy Barnes that scored Gaston at home despite his 
Notre Dame swept three­Kurt Wells when Alex Nettey leaping slide over the right side game series with Big East bobbled the ball in centerfield. of the base path. rivals Pittsburgh, South Notre Dame had three errors Then in the eighth inning Florida, St. John's and Rutgers on the game. Brezovsky lined a hard-hit ball and banged out 11 mid-week "The only thing I said to up the middle with men on first non-conference wins to vault them was 'This is one of those and second and two outs. It from outside the national polls games that you have an oppor­would have scored a runner to No. 8 within four weeks. Ten tunity throughout the year that had Shay not made a diving different Irish pitchers earned you can grab some headlines,"' grab to secure the last out at wins during the streak, while Falcons coach Danny Schmitz second base. the offense outscored oppo­said of his pre-game pep talk "It was just one of those nents 208-79 during the to his players. "That's all I said days, they made a couple of stretch. to the kids. If you win the game great plays," Mainieri said. 
"It's been a great ride," Irish you're going to grab headlines, "There's three runs right there, coach Paul Mainieri said after so hopefully the kids will if they don't make those plays." the loss. "It just wasn't our day. receive some headlines tomor­The Irish cut into the In a long season you're going row." Bowling Green lead with runs to have some days like this and By the ninth inning the Irish in five of the last six innings, unfortunately today was our had closed the gap to 9-7, but but came up short after the day to have a bad day." Bowling Green refused to lie Falcons added runs of their 
Bowling Green (22-17) batted down with a two-run ninth own in the fifth and ninth around against Irish starter inning. Shortstop Ryan Shay's innings. David Gruener (1-1) in the sec­run-scoring single followed an Irish catcher Cody Rizzo got ond inning, scoring seven runs RBI double by first baseman the first Notre Dame run of the on six hits and three Irish Brandon McFarland to extend game on an RBI groundout to errors. The sophomore south­the Falcon lead to 11-7. second base with the bases paw lasted 1 1-3 innings and Notre Dame threatened with loaded and no one out in the surrendered five earned runs. one run in the home half of the fourth inning. Third baseman 
"He really wasn't hitting his ninth when Cooper doubled to Brett Lilley followed suit with spots, he got some pitches up right centerfield. But Lilley the same play for a run two in the zone," Mainieri said. flied out and Jeremy Barnes batters later. 

Observer graphic by Jarred Wafer 

"Tip your hat to Bowling struck out to end the short­Right fielder Danny Green, they hit them. It put us lived comeback. Dressman concluded the three­Rizzo pushed an opposite outs with runners in scoring in a big hole right out of the "Notre Dame, there's no run fourth-inning stand on an field single to left for a run in position by Rizzo and Cooper. gate." doubt about that they're a top-RBI single to right field to cut the fifth and designated hitter The Irish travel to Storrs, 
The second inning Falcon 10 team-and they scared the the Falcons lead to 7-3. Sean Gaston plated a run in the Conn. this weekend for a three rally got a kick-start when heck out of me," Schmitz said. The Falcons opened the lead sixth with an RBI single up the game Big East series with Irish second baseman Ross "They can really swing the to 9-3 in the top of the fifth middle to cut the score to 9-5. Connecticut. Brezovsky made a diving stop bats." with RBI singles to left and A two-run Irish seventh but overthrew Cooper with a Stellar Bowling Green centerfield by pinch hitter inning narrowed the lead to 9-Contact Kyle Cassity at man already on first. defense took away. several hits Brian Hangbers and Gacom. 7 on back-to-back RBI ground-kcassily@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Amra111 fans 16 as Saint Mary's sweeps struggling Goshen 
Mary's Field. offensively in game two. Smid lead. Mary's offense. Gajor went 2-for-By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
The Belles also garnered a 10-went 3-for-3 at the plate, driving The score remained 5-0 until 3, driving in two RBI's, while Sports Writer 
1 win in the five-inning opener. in two runs and scoring twice. the bottom of the sixth when Smid went 3-for-4 and drove in Amram started the second Senior outfielder Audrey Gajor Grall singled again driving in two runs. 
Saint Mary's freshman Kristen game for Saint Mary's, striking also went 3-for-3 and drove in another run. Gajor opened up the scoring in Amram broke her own school out three of the first four batters the game's first run on a double Goshen's only glimmer of hope the bottom of the first with an strikeout record Wednesday she faced and allowing just two that scored Smid in the first. came in the top of the seventh RBI ground out to give the Belles when struck out 16 in the Belles hits. Already leading 1-0, Saint when leftfielder Faith Borrell a 1-0 lead. Saint Mary's then 6-1 win over Goshen -in game Freshman designated hitter Mary's bats came alive in the scored off an error bringing the capitalized on Goshen fielding two of a double header at Saint Martha Smid lead the Belles bottom of the second. Senior score to a final 6-1. errors in the bottom of the third 
outfielder Bridget Grall began when both Gajor and Smid the scoring with an RBI double. Saint Mary's 10, Goshen 1 scored to put the Belles up 3-0. Smid followed up with another The Belles offense was stellar Goshen fought back in the top double that drove in two more in the first game as well, putting of the fifth when third baseman runs. Gajor then grabbed her 10 runs on the board in an easy Erin Layman drove in an RBI to
DBLUXE FooTBALL iAt:KAGi 
second RBI of the game with a victory. bring the score to 3-1. 
single, giving the Belles the 5-0 Gajor and Smid again led Saint St. Mary's put Goshen away in the bottom of the fifth, scoring seven runs and ending the game 
Undergraduate Female of the Year Undergraduate Male of the Year Lisa Ruffer-Cavanaugh Michael Ortiz-0 'Neill Heather Vanhoegarden-PW Joe O'Connell-Sorin Anne Parrell-Farley Brendan McCarthy-St. Ed's  
Grad/Fac/Staft' Female ofthe Year Grad/l<'ac/Staff Male of the Year Erin Galloway Thomas Clark Kristy Divittorio Deyvehn East Isabelle Cote Carson Rasmussen  
Game of the Year Stanford vs. St. Ed's (IH Ice Hockey Semifinals) Pangbom vs. PW (JH Women's Aag Football Finals) Stanford Avs. Siegfried A(lH Men's Soccer Finals  
Team of the Year St. Ed's lee Hockey Zahm Football PW Football  Fans of the Year Zahm Football PW Hag Football Alumni Icc Hockey  

prematurely due to the mercy rule. Gajor and senior Meghan 
Notre Dame vs. USC Nov. 25th, 2006 
Only 200 Resen,..ations Availabfe! 
Marenkovic each knocked in a run during the rally. 
•2 GAME TICKETS 

Notes: 
•2 AIRUNE TICKETS {AAl O'HARE TO LAX 
+ The sweep over Goshen was the last home game for seniors
•2 NICHTS HOTEl RESERVATIONS 
Gajor, Grall and Marenkovic. 
•GROU,'\JD TRAVf:t TO/FROIV1 COLISEUM 
"The last game on your home field you definitely want to go out with a bang," Grall said. "It 
•CATERED RALLY THE FRIDAY 
NlGHT BEfORE THE GAME 
felt great to sweep." 
+ The two wins over Goshen lifted the Belles record to 25-11 giving them their highest num­
Total Package: 

ber of wins since 1984. Goshen continued their losing streak,
$2,650per reservation 
which was extended to 23 (Check or Cash) 
games. 
+ The Belles will be in action again when they face Kalamazoo College on the road Saturday at 
Contact Deirdre Krasula atdkra­sula@nd.edu 
GO IRISH! 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 27, 2006 
being the only part of the trio attack in order to get scoring not to break a record this sea­chances using her quick feet son. and good passing. 
"Caitlin has worked so hard "McKinney is really quick this year to make her game and always sees the right better," Coyne said. "She is moves like no one else," Byers learning how to work with her said. gifts. If you look at game film The Irish next play Saturday from last year and then this at noon against Syracuse at year, she has so much Moose Krause Stadium. improvement." 
McKinney has been able to Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at work the ball around in the jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
team's turnaround from their One of the most notable 3-12 performance last year. aspects about Byers' perform­
Trio 

Byers has set freshman ance this season is her unmis­continued from page 28 records in points (59) and takable potential, Coyne said. 
goals ( 41) in her first year. "She still has a lot of room to to the last player off the "Jill has had an enormous grow and develop," Coyne bench, everyone looks up to impact this season, especially said. "She is learning a lot Crysli," Byers said. "I know for a freshman," McKinney about the game and herself." that I look up to her in so said. "She has helped open McKinney is the final part of many ways." things up for others on attack the trio. She is second on the 
The seeond part of the trio is because of her skills because team in assists and third in l'rnshman Jill ByMs. Slw has she is another person for the goals, but still has been a hnen an essential part in the defense to have to mark." large part of the attack despite 
12
TRY OUR NEW 11 VALUE CHEESE PIZZA 
Only $4.99 
($1.00 for each additional topping.) 
Call 631-2924 for fast free delivery Delivery hours: 6pm-1 am 

Receive a $.99 2 liter Coke product with the purchase of a 1211 Sbarro Value Pizza. 
Receive a Free 2 liter Coke product with the purchase of an 18" pizza. 
No coupon necessary. Offers good until 5/12/06, Not Valid with other offers or promotions. 
LARGE PIZZA $ 

99
Cheese & 1 Topping 

Add'l Toppings

FREE DELIVERY ON CAMPUS! 
$1.25 Each 
l.imitt'd time offer. Prices. tdK, delivery areas & charges: may vary by

52750 IN 933 
location. Exdudm; other offer\. Good at participBting lot.:ations only 

(N. of Cleveland Rd. ­Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's) 
574-243-1122 
Vl~lt us on the Web at www.R'Iarc:os.<om C2006 Marco's Fr,,m:hi'iing, llC 4831-206 














Thursday, April27, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD 
LRIC:li-IT BAS~,  IT  l-IAS lo SA'f  
ME To WRITE.  WHAT  'jOU  FE.£.\.  
OUR  AWA~  IN  'fOUft- SOU\..,  
ME.S!)A&E..  'SliT  IT ALSO HAS  
To  SA'{ WI'\E'.~\t  
'fOU  A~E.  VAIN,  
'fE.T  INf'OP.Mj),.iiv€.,  
'f'E..T 1'!<-'j IN(:, NO!  
io LOOK  VAIN  

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
HE.'f' 'fOU 60NNA C.OME ofl.. WHAT"? WE.' VE. BE..t..N 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
FLUTA 
I I I tJ 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
DROAH 
I I ItSELING J

J r I I
1 
www.jumble.com 
RUMABI 
J 
Answer here: 

rn·oA"(I I I]" 
(Answers tomorrow)  
Yesterday's  Jumbles: Answer:  JOKER INLET ABOUND STOLID Spending hours looking through a telescope gave  
the astronomer a-"DISTANT" LOOK  

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHY THE: BRIDE: DIDNT WANT A TRAIN ON HE:R WE:DDING GOWN. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 Asian capital 70 Make it while 1 Shark rival whose name the sun shines 4 Rosemary and means "place of 71 Checkup 
the gods" 

sage 72 Puts forth 10 National, 73 Casual greetings 
40 More lustrous previously 42 Lay ott 14 Flurry 44 Kicking dance 
DOWN 15 Berate 45 Over and over 
1 Rapper who co­16 Pick stuff up 47 Stand at home? founded Roc-a­17 Manipulative 48 Booker, at times Fella Records technique 50 What mirrors 2 Hipness 19 Parks of show 3 Binge Alabama 52 Something in 4 Hit sign 20 Letter that's not the air 
5 "That'll show really at the end 55 New Zealand him!" of the Greek native 
6 Put through a 
alphabet 
57 Satisfy sieve 21 She, in Italy 
58 Stage actress 7 Novel that 22 Web surfer, e.g. Caldwell and begins "Stately, 23 They can carry others plump Buck a tune 60 Watch part Mulligan ... " 26 Thrown in the air 64 Arctic 8 Low pitch 28 Discrimination exclamation 9 Minnesota twin? against a 
65 Search-by­10 Red Sox fans' 
majority definition tool slogan until 31 "Dallas" mother 68 Film lead-in for 2004 33 Baloney Cop 11 Nelson 
34 Kind of 69 Love letter Mandela's consciousness salutation native tongue 12 Sits tor a shot ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 13 Eyeball benders -:-T=-r::-r:,., 18 Like some church matters ':":':t:::=+.:::t:-:i 24 Bundle r:t-:::+.*.="1 25 Shield border loiioloilobl"!!l~81-:i:-i881!1-::;:+:+:-8B 27 Heineken, e.g. 28 Richie's mom, to the Fonz 29 Play alone ...;::.+7+=+::-l 30 Coast-to-coast 
hwy. 

-:::+::::+.::+.;:i'!"!'P'!" ":":"t-:::-t~:-:-t.-• 32 Future atty.'s hurdle ~-:+:+=-i-,=-fi!!!'P'!!!!'t-=+:+:-:-~ 35 Middle name of The King -=+-=+±:+:i-1 37 Rhyme scheme ot the "Rubaiyat" 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

38 Kingdom in a 49 It may cause a 56 Grant portrayer 1951 Broadway breakdown in 1970's-80's musical TV
51 Knack 39 No pro 59 Endangered
52 Card game
41 Home equity antelope
without 8's, 9's
conversion 61 Hurting
and 10's
43 "Eso _" (Paul 62 "Ta-ta!''
53 Copy 46 N.S.A. 54 San Francisco's 63 "Grand" brand headquarters 
Anka hit) 
Buena 66 Granola grain near Baltimore Island 67 Auditing org. 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available tor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and mqre than 2,000 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzletorum. Crosswords tor young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________________________ Address ____________________________ City ______________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tionne "T-Boz" Watkins, 36; Jet Li, 43; Michael Damian, 44; Carol Burnett, 73 
Happy Birthday: Nothing comes easy but, if you put everything you've got into something you really want to do, it will be successful. This is a hard worl< year for you but there's nothing you can't resolve using good common sense and strategic timing. Your numbers are 13, 16, 19, 22, 28, 41 
ARIES (March 21-Afril 19): Your impatience will be what causes problems today. Don't leave yoursel too much time to ponder aggravating things. Plan to do things on your own and challenge yourself physically to ease your stress level. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Secrets must be kept if you want to avoid confiicts. Someone or something you see today will jog your memory. Don't panic; there is still plenty of time to catch up or make amends. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Promote your own talent. You will be awarded favors if you ask for help. A serious approach to what you do will result in respect from your peers. You will be a gifted speaker today. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't let things get to you. Organize your time and, instead of fretting, systematically complete one task after another. You'll be surprised at the end of the day how much you've accomplished. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Question anything you are unsure about. Participating will be the name of the game. Find an organization or person that can provide you with the most extensive information regarding something you want to pursue. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Stop putting things off and clear up pending matters. An investment will interest you but, if you have to borrow to make it happen, invest less or take a pass. Money can be made but avoid joint ventures. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't let someone who is uptight ruin your day. If you address personal issues, you may find that a relationship you are involved in will take unexpected turn. Oon't let anyone bully you into making a decision you are not prepared to make. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may be concerned about work but you should put more emphasis on your health and well being. You've allowed stress to creep in by taking on responsibilities that are unnecessary. It's time you relaxed and gave more thought to what life is all about. 3 stars 
SAGffiARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Taking part in something competitive or physically challenging will do you good. The process of putting yourself on the line will motivate you in other areas of your life. Social events will result in fun and probably a little romance. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may have to compromise if you want to get anything accomplished. Someone is likely to oppose you, causing emotional fatigue. Giving in a little will help ease the stress of working with someone else. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Consider a new job or changing your way of earning your income. Give something new a chance or sign up for courses to increase your skill level. Talk to someone in the industry who interests you and you will receive help. 4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Do a little backtracking before you try to move forward. Consider the consequences of moving ahead without going through the proper channels. Make up with someone and you will do yourself and that person a lot of good. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are energetic, disciplined and a little bit stubborn. You are emotionally deep and passionate about everything and everyone. You are quick to respond and empathetic with those less able. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, April 27, 2006 
page 28 
'--· BASEBALL 
Bowled over 
Irish comeback falls short against Bowling Green to end 23-game winning streak 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

Evnrything good must come to an nnd. 
Notrn Damn eould not avoid this rnality Wndnesday as it saw its 2:~-gamn win strnak snappnd with an 11-S loss to Bowling Grnnn at Frank Eck Stadium. 
N o . X N o t n~ Da m e (3 3 -9 ) fought back from a seven-run ddicit in tlw seeon d inning, but timely Falcon fielding shut the lid on several latn-inning rallins to finish the hope of 24 straight. 
Thn loss eanw one game artnr tho Irish saw another lnngthy strnak fall vietim to the avnragns of baseball. First baseman Craig Coopnr's 0-l'or­4 day at tho plate against Purdun Tunsday ended a strntch whern the Irish senior hit in 21 consecutive games. 
The Irish last lost over a month ago -an 8-3 defnat to 
see LOSS/page 25 


SOFTBALL 

ND splits two gatnes with Boilers 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 

It was a taln of two gamns at Ivy Field Wednesday as Notre Dame split its doubleheader with Purdue. The Irish took the first game 9-1 in six innings and lost 7-4 in the second. 
"[Senior righthander[ Heather [BoothI shut them down and [freshman righthandnr Brittany[ Bargar gave up big hits in the key situations," Irish coaeh Doanna Gumpl' said. "That's the simple truth of it." 
Booth (17-9), who took the mound in the first game, shut out the Boilermakers in 5 2-3 innings. The senior scattered three hits and struck out seven before junior Kenya Fuemmeler replaced her in the sixth. 
After walking three of the four batters she faced, Fuemmeler was pulled and Booth was brought back in to finish the 
see PURDUE/page 23 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
/ 

Irish trio leads squad
Walsh ends career in style 
Senior from N.Y. has record statistics but aims for victories 
By TIM DOUGHERTY SponsWritn 

Notrn DamP attack Tim Walsh has bnPn a scoring thn~at his nntirn earner with tho Irish. 
With just two gamns ldt in his collngiatn !'arner, Walsh's offensive nurnbnrs placo him in tlw top tPn in Notrn Dame lacrossn history in caronr assists (third), goals (ninth) and points (fourth) -and the senior is ready to move up nvnr1 morn in his last two con­tnsts.. 
With one more assist -the hundredth of his caroor­Walsh will tie Handy Colley ('95) for second-place on tho all-time list. Walsh is also five goals from seventh-place Bob Troeehi ('85) -not an insur­rnountablo dolieit, considering hn scorml six goals in a single game in a 9-X win against tlwn-No.13 Hofstra last sea-
see WALSH/page 24 


BOOKSTORE XXXV 
Bookstore Basketball Commissioners released the Sweet Sixteen pair­ings for this weekend. 
page 24 


SMC SOFTBALL 
The Belles handed Goshen their 22nd and 23rd straight losses in a two-game series Wednesday 
page 24 
NBA 
Pistons 109 Bucks 98 
Pistons forward Tayshaun Prince scored 22 points as Detroit took a 2-0 series lead. 
page 20 

with prolific offense 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 

Irish senior Crysti Foote, freshman Jill Byers and soph­omore Caitlin McKinney have led Notre Dame this season as the most successful trio in school history. 
They have scored a com­bined 128 goals and tallied 66 assists this season, and are only the second threesome in Irish history to each score 30 goals in one season. Their 194 points account for over 60 percent of the team's offense. 
Irish coach Tracy Coyne said the three are crucial parts of the attack in all stages -set­ting up plays, transition, fast breaks and scoring. They have started in all fourteen games this season. 
Byers said the ability for the group to work well together sterns from Coyne. 
"Tracy designs plays and drills around the three of us in games and practice to help us work well together," Byers said. 
Foote has been Notre Dame's most consistent of'f'onsive play­er, doing her part to set up the attack to help the Irish score. 
"I Foote I has tho willingnoss to accept the burden of boing the leader on attack," Coyne said. "She has embraced her role and that has allowed her to excel." 
foote's help in leading the attack shows in her ability to score and help others score. And her play was reeognized this season when the University Club of Washington, 
D.C. nominated her for the Tewaaraton Trophy lacrosse's equivalont of the lleisman Trophy. Foote ranks second nationally in both goals and points per game. 
But on-field play is only one aspect of leading a team. When Notre Dame is done with games or praetiees, Foote only bogins to shine. The sen­ior captains the team and has taken this role to an extra level -working hard to gain the trust and respeet of her teammates. 
"From our next-best player 
see TRIO/page 26 
MLB 
Brewers 5 
NHl NFL 

Flyers 4 
Sabres 2 The Houston Texans Braves 4 
Philadelphia bounced announced Wednesday Ben Sheets got his back from losing the that they will not draft first victory of the year first two games of the in Milwaukee's win
Vince Young. 

series with a home win. over Atlanta. 
page 19 page 17 page 16 




