~--..----------------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 9 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2006 

Irish fans flock to Georgia to ~how support 
Welcome to Atlanta where nearly two years, having stud­Championship game," he said,By EILEEN DUFFY the Irish play (this weekend, ied abroad in London last fall. without knocking on wood. 
Assistant News Ediror 
at least). When the Irish hit "Since we missed last foot­Students like Shadley and the road, so do th~ir fans -ball season, we are going to Atlanta resident Emree 
They are the drivers of RVs, though cramped cars are a as many games as we can to Chapman, who flew home the bearers of MapQuest far cry from jet planes. make up for it this year," he Thursday for the game, are directions, the callers of shot­Senior Nathan Catanese will said. confident in the team's ability gun and the seekers of rest be squeezing six people into a Junior Fritz Shadley can to win. stops. They set fire to their car -meaning one person relate. On Tuesday, he'll "I have a lot of high school friends' heads in radio con­will be sitting between the board a Spain-bound airplane friends that go to Georgia tests and bid exorbitant sums driver and the front passen­that will fly him away from Tech. It'll be fun to beat on subhub.com and ebay.com. ger. It's going to be tight, but Notre Dame football for the them," she said, adding a They are the students making Catanese might have a little fall. He's still heading down to "hopefully!" for good meas­the trek to watch Notre Dame more tolerance for leg Atlanta, though. ure. take on Georgia Tech this cramps, as this is the first "The only games I can go to weekend. Notre Dame game he's seen in are this one and the National see GEORGIA/page 4 

ND students help. Katrina relief 
One year after devastating storm, the clean-up effort continues with volunteers 
lies coming back to their homes By MARCELA BERRIOS 
for the first time and finding
News Writer 
everything destroyed and scat­
tered," she said. 
Tuesday marked the first Deva and several Notre Dame anniversary since Hurricane stude.its traveled to New Katrina's raging winds and Orleans as part of a Center for waters destroyed the homes Social Concerns Summer and lives of countless families Service Project. living in and around New In the last year, the CSC has Orleans. sent more than 65 students to 
It may have happened a year the Katrina-ravaged region, ago, but that does not mean the said Bill Purcell, associate victims of Katrina have moved director of Catholic Social on -and neither have the Tradition and Practice. members of the Notre Dame "As a student body at a reli­community tied to the disaster. giously affiliated institution of 
"People are still suffering higher learning, we need to act emotionally, psychologically and in .solidarity with the folks in economically from Hurricane the Gulf Region to address the Katrina," junior Radhika Deva systemic problems which will said. take a decade to overcome," he 
Deva spent her summer in said. 
New Orleans ripping out mold­The CSC recently began a Gulf ing walls and ceilings in houses Coast Task Force designed to that were evacuated immedi­assist with student ately after the levees collapsed interest in continuing the relief and stayed abandoned for more and recovery efforts in the Gulf than nine months. 
"It's tragic to see entire fami-see KATRINA/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Police arrest suspect 
Man in custody for Turtle Creek incident 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 
Police arrested a Mishawaka 
man Wednesday in connection 
with the alleged assault at 
Turtle Creek Apartments Aug. 
23. 
Bruce Smith, 24, was arrest­ed Wednesday night on "pre­liminary charges" relating to the incident in which a female Notre Dame junior, 21, was held at knifepoint in her Turtle Creek apartment, South Bend Police Captain John Williams said Thursday. 
Williams said he could not specify how Smith was found and arrested -"I didn't look into all that" -or what charges were made. 
"The [St. Joseph County] prosecutors will decide what he will be formally charged with," Williams said. 
When asked if he knew this was the man who broke into the apartment and assaulted the student, Williams said, "No, I don't." 
After the arrest, Smith was taken to the St. Joseph County Jail, Williams said. 
At about 7:30 p.m. on Aug. 23, a man who claimed to be a cable company employee allegedly entered the student's apartment and said he needed to check the student's cable. 
see ARRESTIpage 4 



Budget, scheduling restrict band away game travels 
of bands. appearances nationwide.Group will only play The band traditionally trav­"Even if there were money to els to away games in buses to send the band to every aw~y
at Michigan State defray costs. While in the past game, it would almost certainly buses have taken the band as be the University's policy not to far as Tennessee and Florida do that," Dwyer said. "Our 
By KATHLEEN McDONNELL 
State, Dwyer said this year the band members have academic 
News Writer 
band chose to save money by schedules and need to study. traveling only a state away. There are very good academic 
As the 2006 Irish football "By saving the money from a reasons why we don't go." team runs onto Georgia Tech's second away game, it will Unlike athletes on scholar­field for the season opener, an enable us to go to the Penn ship, band members are volun­element almost as synonymous State game next year, which is teers. Home game weekends with Notre Dame football as a longer trip," he said. are packed with band perform­Knute Rockne will be missing This season the Irish play ances, including step-off, -the Band of the Fighting seven home games and only drummer's circle, the concert Irish. five on the road. With the other on the steps and the march to 
The band will take only one away games spreading across the Stadium, as well as the road trip this season, as the country -Georgia. Tech, game. All this adds to a full opposed to its typical two away Navy in Maryland, Air Force in academic load. appearances. Tight budgeting Colorado and USC -distance However, if the team quali­and scheduling issues forced plays a large role in choosing fies for a bowl game, the band the band to choose Michigan which games are feasible. will travel as well. State on Sept. 23 as its only But money is not the only "For [the band members] to away game visit, according to reason the Band of the Larry Dwyer, assistant director Fighting Irish does not make see BAND/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, September 1, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Life at the bottom 

Bare light bulbs, unfinished walls and cold concrete floors. Typical things you would find in a basement. 
It is the bottom of the building, the place in your house you were afraid to go by yourself 
Kaitlynn Riely 
when you were little. Some people 
Production
might call a base­
Editor
ment spooky. I call it my home. 

This year I am living in the base­m-ent of my dorm, the result of an unfortunately low lottery number during room picks. The first, second, and third floors filled quickly last year, so I resigned myself to living in what is widely regarded as Pangborn's least desirable room location. 
During an introductory exercise on the first day of Spanish class, a class­mate asked me what dorm I am in and what floor I live on. 
"Cero," I replied, since I have not spoken a word of Spanish all summer and could not remember how to say basement. 
"The basement," I said in English after he looked at me with a con­fused expression. Immediately a look of what can only be described as pity registered on his face. 
"They have rooms down there?" he asked incredulously. 
Rooms and much, much more. After only two weeks living in the basement, I am officially converted to a willing basement dweller. Climbing stairs to go to my room has become a thing of the past. The easy access to the laundry, the printer and the close proximity of my friends, the "Basewoment," is marred only by the occasional blaring of the back door alarm when a fellow Phox breaks parietals or forgets, as I myself have in the past, the door alarm is always turned on at midnight. 
This basement life is not new to me. Over the summer, I moved from the second floor bedroom I had Jived in for six years to another room in the basement of my home. 
My extensive basement dwelling experience allows me to identify cer­tain pluses to lower level living. The temperature is cooler, it's easier to move in and move out and there is a slight feeling of detachment from the other floors that can easily be mis­construed as living on your own. 
Now, from my dorm room I can walk right outside and do homework in the sun at a picnic table in the courtyard. My DeBartolo commute is about two minutes shorter. And without a couple flights of stairs to lug my laundry basket up and down, I think I can get through the whole year without breaking it like I did last year. 
When room picks start at the end of the year, even if I have a high lot­tery pick, I think I will choose to live in the basement again. 
So, to my Spanish friend, don't worry about my living situation. I may barely be above ground, but I still enjoy windows, plumbing, elec­tricity and a room identical to every other room in the dorm. 
If you need me, I'll be in the s6tano. 

Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR PREDICTION FOR THE FOOTBALL GAME THIS WEEKEND? 



Anna Konger 
senior Holy Cross 
"ND will win because they're going to win every game. 

Brie Anne Eichhorn 
junior LeMans 
"We'll win because Weis is . a god." 
Catherine Wagner 
senior LeMans 
"They'll win because I'm an RA and what I 
.. 
say goes. 
Kate Van Damme 
senior LeMans 
"They'll have the game won in 49 seconds." 

Maggie Jespersen 
junior LeMans 
"They will win because they have the support ofthe Belles behind 
Sarah Patten 
junior 1\1cCandless 
"They'll win because The Shirt is actually cute this year. .. 


HY PHAM!The Observer 

Robbie Hazen, a junior from O'Neill, plays during the first AcoustiCafe of the year Thursday night, held in the LaFortune Ballroom. The Student Union Board 
sponsored the event. 
OFFBEAT 

Bartender gets $10,000 tip on $26 tab 
HUTCHINSON, Kan. ­Cindy Kienow, a bartender at Applebee's, got a $10,000 tip from a man ­for a $26 meal -on Sunday. 
"I couldn't move," J(jenow said. "I didn't know what to say. He said, 'This will buy you something kind of nice, huh?' And I said, 'Yeah, it will."' 
Kienow said the man, whom company officials have declined to name, comes in several times a month and eats at the end of the bar. 
"He usually signs his tick­et and flips it upside down," said Kienow, 35, who has worked at the restaurant for eight years. "But this time, he had it right-side up and said 'I want you to know this is not a joke."' 
Strippers help Las Vegas area schools 
LAS VEGAS -The Clark County School District kicked off the first day of school Wednesday with scant resources. But it got a major donation from the scantily clad. 
The same day the nation's fifth largest school district began the year with some 400 teaching vacan­cies, the nonprofit corpora­tion that supports it, the Public Education Foundation, accepted a $2,500 donation from a strip club, Scores Las Vegas. 
Scores raised the funds at an Aug. 23 back-to-school event called "Detention" that featured strippers dressed as teachers, schoolgirls and librarians. 
"It's back to school time and you know what that means. Detention for every­one who has been bad!" one advertisement read. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a:: 
L&.l 
:I: 
!;: 
L&.l 
3: 
..... 
<1: 
(J 



0 

HIGH 77 HIGH 67 HIGH 82 HIGH 83
..J 

LOW 57 LOW 57 LOW 65 LOW 58 
them.,, 
IN BRIEF 
Chicago's "Howl at the Moon" dueling pianos will perform at Legends at 10 tonight. ND, SMC or IICC student ID required for admission. 
''An Inconvenient Truth" will be shown at 7 and 10 tonight in Browning Cinema at The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Admission is $6 for gen­eral public, $5 for faculty, $4 for seniors and $3 for students. 
The women's soccer team will take on USC tonight at 7:30 at Alumni Field. The game is part of the Inn at Saint Mary's ND Classic. 
The Student Activities Office will host a Game Watch on North Quad for the Georgia Tech game on Saturday begin­ning at 8 p.m. Free food and drink will be provided while it lasts. 
The Snite Museum of Art will showcase Mexican migration to the United States through a mul­timedia exhibit that includes Chicano and Mexican visual arts beginning Sunday, Sept. 3 in the museum's O'Shaughnessy Galleries, Mestrovic Studio Gallery and the entrance atrium. 
The sixth annual Saturday Scholar Series will feature six lectures and a performance by leading faculty members on each home football game week­end this fall. The first lecture, "More Than a Movie? Assessing 'The Da Vinci Code"' will be held, as always, three and a half hours before kickoff on Sept. 9 in DeBartolo 101. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information abour an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 
HIGH 77 HIGH 71 LOW 55 LOW 58 
Atlanta 84 I 66 Boston 70 I 59 Chicago 73 I 64 Denver 82 I 56 Houston 94 I 70 Los Angeles 89 I 67 Minneapolis 79 1 59 New York 74 I 65 Philadelphia 74 I 63 Phoenix 101 I 82 Seattle 72 I 53 St. Louis 80164 Tampa 87 I 77 Washington 731 69 

Friday, September 1, 2006 page 3
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

College expands handicap access 
Ramp to be added to Le Mans west entrance 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
Students returning to Saint Mary's campus this fall noticed a new addition to one of the oldest residential build­ings. 
A handicapped ramp is being installed on the west entrance of Le Mans, a build­ing that houses not only stu­dents but also many of the College's administrative offices, the Department of Residence Life and the coun­seling center. 
Bill Hambling, director of Facilities at Saint Mary's, said while there is a handicapped ramp to the south of the one being built, the new ramp will provide an entrance to the basement. 
"This new ramp will pro­vide a more convenient entrance [and] exit to [and] from Le Mans to the center courtyard area," Hambling said. 
The new ramp was designed to fit in with the architecture of the building so as to be aesthetic while serv­ing its purpose, he said. 
While the existing ramp was believed adequate and served its purpose, students 
found it to be in an awkward place and poorly marked. 
"I had no idea that there were any ramps or anything [in Le Mans], there was noth­ing to indicate it," said Kellie Anderson, a sophomore who lived in Le Mans her fresh­man year. 
The new ramp, Hambling said, is "strategically placed to make it more readily visi­ble and available to use." 
The other residential build­ings on campus are not being updated, Hambling said. Regina Hall and McCandless Hall are considered to be very accessible to handicapped students, he said. Holy Cross Hall also has a handicapped entrance to the north of the building near the Security Office, next to the Post Office. 
When asked why the con­struction was taking place now, Hambling responded that it was not a matter of neglect, but rather of finding the funds for the project. 
"[College President] Carol [Ann] Mooney and her leader­ship team are always con­cerned about accessibility issues and safety of our entire campus family," he said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintrnarys.edu 
you are getting very excited ... 

Rich Aimes 

Friday, September 1 Washirlgton Hall 8pm 

~16~tlp!Mwu.:HW •..-..~d: ~."'>.iDi.• 
House guards memories of past 
Riedinger used for student practicum 
By KIM ABEEL News Writer 
A mystery for many students and source of fond memories for many alumnae, the Riedinger House stands as a remembrance of things past on Saint Mary's Campus. 
Though no longer used for its original purpose, the house was built in 1939 for use for the student practicum required of all seniors major­ing in domestic science, according to Barb Henry of the SMC Alumnae Relations Office. 
Four students were assigned to live together in the house, along with a live-in supervisor, for a period of nine weeks, Henry said. While there, the students learned advanced home management skills by practicing efficient budget management, planning and preparing meals, shopping, cleaning, sewing and guest hosting and entertaining. 
While defunct by the mid­1960s, the College's domestic science programs were con­sidered rather advanced for the time, and students with concentrations in dietetics or nutrition were required to take several rigorous courses in biology and chemistry in addition to fulfilling laboratory requirements. 
The program's courses and laboratory sessions were con­ducted in what is now Holy Cross Residence Hall. The cost of the construction of the Hiedinger practicum house was $21,272, a large portion of which was donated by the Adaline Crowley Riedinger family. Riedinger, Class of 1864, was the first alumna to send her daughter, Mary Adalaide Riedin-ger, Class of 1889, to Saint Mary's. 
After an unexpected increase in expenses, however, plans for the house were changed to 7/8 scale. This reduction in size is noticeable primarily in the lowered ceil­ings, especially upon entering the powder room off the main foyer. 
The house was furnished in Early-American style, and the bedrooms contained Georgian­period style furniture. Much of the original furniture remains today. The kitchen was consid­ered state-of-the-art at the time of its construction and even included a dishwasher. There were three bedrooms­two for the students and one spacious room with a fireplace for the supervisor. 
The bathroom was also unique for the time and was designed in such a way that all four students could use it simultaneously, yet with rela­tive privacy. One area of the bathroom housed a tub, show­er and sink; another area, a toilet and a sink; the third area, properly called a "dental lavatory," contained two sinks and a full mirror. 

The basement ·originally served as a state-of-the-art laundry facility, containing an electric wringer-washer and an automatic in-wall steam, dry and press unit. 
After the domestic science program ended, Riedinger House was occupied in 1968 by Msgr. John McGrath. The house underwent a major ren­ovation in the mid -1970s, and has been suitably maintained since. Much of the original furniture remains and has been reupholstered through­out the years. 
Maintaining nearly all of its charm, the house still bears the original copper scalloped gutters, original casement windows and blue toile adorned dining room with original Hitchcock dining chairs. The house also con­tains one of Mother Madeleva's personal bookcas­es, a silver tea service former­ly of the Sisters of the Holy Cross and an original painting of Norman Laliberte. artist and former art instructor at the College from 1960 to 1965. 
Today. the Riedinger House is used by official guests of the College, Alumnae or Trustee Board members or for faculty functions. The rich memorial gardens surrounding the House are open for public use. The House is not available for rent for alumnae weddings or reunions. 
Contact Kim Abeel at kabeeiO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 1, 2006 

Katrina 
continued from page I 
region. 
Students like junior Caity Schneeman, who visited the New Orleans region twice in the last year, have become key players in the creation of this project. 
"The whole area is in dire need of helping hands, but here is one of those cases where people don't really understands how bad things are until they see for them­selves," she said. 
As chair of the task force, Schneeman is already organiz­ing another trip to New Orleans during fall break, where students will be gutting and rebuilding homes. 
About 80 people are signed up to travel to Louisiana in October. 
One of them is sophomore Luis Crespo, who said it would be his second time helping out in New Orleans. 
"The sheer amount of destruction down there struck me, and I really encourage anybody who has the opportu­nity to go to do it," he said. 
The Alliance for Catholic Education has also been work­ing relentlessly all year to help with the reconstruction of the city's education system. 
Students working as teach­ers in the ACE program saw their schools in Biloxi, Mississippi, destroyed by the waters. 
While they were forced to evacuate the region, most of the ACE participants returned in less than one week to help coordinate the initial rescue and relief efforts, said John Staud, director of Pastoral Formation and Administration for ACE. 
"ACE raised over $150,000 last fall, which was sent to the schools to support the rebuilding and the continued education of students whose families lost almost every­thing," he said. 
Other ACE participants in the Baton Rouge area wel­comed the storm's refugees, offering daytime and nighttime school sessions to accommo­date the region's newly-dou­bled population, Staud said. 
One year after the storm first hit, some people still haven't returned to their old homes ­if those homes even remain. 
"Being there. was depressing at first; the city is not function­al," Deva said of her New Orleans experience. "There are no children playing in the street, and half of the busi­nesses are closed, and every­where there are wrecked houses.... 
"The local people, though, are absolutely inspiring." 
Deva said she and her fellow Notre Dame volunteers met the owner of every house they deared, in an effort to connect the work they were doing to real faces and real people. 
"We were taught to treat the house as if it were the owner itself." Deva said. 
Completing one house took approximately three days, and while she thinks she may have worked on more than one hun­dred homes, Deva stressed the many more houses still in need of work and volunteers. 
"The people down there don't need prayers," she said. "They need people to come help with the clean-up. There is just so mueh work that needs to get done." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 

Russo offers financial aid advice to British 
Faculty member back after summer abroad 
Special to The Observer 
The names of the British univer­sities Oxford and Cambridge mean academic excellence even to Americans. And supported as they and other British universities are by the national government, British college tuition does not present the challenge to family finances that U.S. tuitions do. 
Just home from a summer appointment to the Oxford University faculty, Joe Russo, director of student financial strate­gies at Notre Dame, has returned with a key belief reaffirmed: The 

Georgia 
continued from page 1 
Chapman is hosting 15 stu­dents at her home for the weekend. Road-tripping stu­dents without friends in Atlanta said they plan to stay at hotels, other colleges near Atlanta like University of Georgia, or even in their RVs. 
A student ticket lottery did not take place for the Georgia Tech game. Director of Student Activities Brian Fremeau said the lotteries are 


Arrest 
continued from page I 
The student, who wished to remain anonymous, told The Observer Sunday that 10 minutes after the man entered her apartment she was increasingly certain ••this guy wasn't supposed to be in my apartment." . 
Several minutes later, the student said, the man was holding a knife to her neck. 

~EGENDS 
F NOTRE DAME C, HCC 10 Req'd I www.legends.nd.ed 
Save for College." 
The British were seeking a little Yankee ingenuity because their system for financing higher educa­tion is on the cusp of change. Historically, fewer than 40 percent of Britain's secondary schools graduates continue onto college. But the lucky minority who do enroll face relatively small tuitions-the equivalent of about $2200. 
In 2004, the British Parliament passed new legislation intended to make higher education accessible to more students. To underwrite the cost of that expansion, tuitions would increase. Students entering their first year this fall will pay nearly the equivalent of about $6,000. 
the station, the Siegfried jun­iors doused their friend's hat with lighter fluid, ignited it and ..went crazy" in front of the camera. They then hoisted the flaming-head friend up for push-ups. 
The 10 tickets were theirs. "I think [the push-ups] are what did it," Shadley said. 
When the road trip ends, though,. the game begins ­and students hope they'll soon be doing push-ups for a differ­ent reason. 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy1 @nd.edu 
ority is always to do exciting shows for the Notre Dame stu­dent body," Dwyer said. "We try to make nice shows so the parents, alums and fans ­everyone -will like it, but the first priority is the stu­dents." 
Students will see the band on the field for the first time this season in next weekend's home opener against Penn State. 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 
.,::··:··G··.·Bl'ITCLUB: . ... :_ '
Ekil . 

@Midnight 

w/DJShortv 

broad opportunity to attend college in the U.S. is a significant national asset. 
"The U.S. can offer a chance for further education beyond high school virtually for anyone who want.c; to pursue it," he says. "They can do it, and do it with support if they need it." 
"The variety of opportunities is another major strength: Two-year, four-year, public, private, big, small, urban, suburban, religiously affiliated," he says, ticking off the options. "We are recognized around the world as the best." 
The United Kingdom itself has recognized the importance of improving accessibility to higher education and is phasing in new approaches toward that end. 
Hus.c;o served thi-, summer as a fel­low in the Centre for Higher Education Policy Studies {OxCHEPS), part of New College at Oxford University. The Centre's work includes developing reports that can be of assistance to univer­sity leaders and national policy­makers. 
Russo was called to Oxford because of his vast knowledge and experience with the American financial aid system and American 
• federal fmancial aict policy. He is considered one of the elder states­men of American financial aid, having served 28 years at Notre Dame and the financial aid profes­sion for more than 41 years. He also has written books on the sub­ject including his recent, "How to 

reserved for games "within a short driving distance" from campus, although Director of Ticket Operations Josh Berlo noted that 300 tickets would be available for the game at University of Southern California. Without Notre Dame's help for this game, students found their tickets in a multitude of ways. 
Senior Mike Sciortino planned ahead. He and his friends went to the Georgia Tech Athletic Web site, www.ramblinwreck.com, on July 1 when tickets went on sale, and purchased a three-
game flex pack. The pack included Notre Dame and two other games of the students' choice, but Sciortino says he plans to sell the other two tickets. 
Shadley also found his tick­ets this summer, but from a more unique source. He and his friends, some of whom live in Atlanta, entered a radio contest there offering 20 tick­ets as its prize:· 10 for the group that could prove itself Notre Dame's "craziest" fans, and· the same for Georgia Tech. 
In the photos they sent to 

Despite his threats -'"If you scream, I'll kill you"' -the student said she managed to escape by grabbing the knife and pushing his arm away. 
As she tried to escape, the man ran out of her apart­ment, she said. 
Williams said he could not give a timeline for the review of the case, to be conducted by the St. Joseph County Prosecutor's office. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 




Band 
continued from page 1 
do all the home games is a lot, so going to Michigan State · and presumably the National Championship this year should be plenty," Dwyer said. 
While the band may not be performing at Georgia Tech this weekend, members will be using the extra time to pre­pare shows for home games. 
"We're excited. Our first pri-



Friday, September 1, 2006 CoMPILED FROtv1 THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Rocket attack kills 4 7 in Baghdad 
BAGHDAD -A barrage of coordinated bomb and rocket attacks on eastern Baghdad neighborhoods killed at least 47 people and wounded more than 200 within half an hour on Thursday, police and hospital officials said. 
The latest spasm of violence -which includ­ed explosives planted in apartments, car bombs and several rocket and mortar attacks on mainly Shiite neighborhoods in the capital -came even as Prime Minister Nouri al­Maliki said Iraqi forces should have control over most of the country by year's end. 
The Baghdad bombings brought the day's death toll across the country to at least 68. 
Attackers rented apartments and shops in buildings a few days ago and planted explo­sives in them, detonating them by remote con­trol almost simultaneously Thursday evening, said Maj. Gen. Jihad Liaabi, director of the Interior Ministry's counterterrorism unit. 
Israel turns over small border area 
JERUSALEM -The Israeli army turned over a small border area in south Lebanon to Lebanese and foreign troops Thursday, a symbolic move paving the way for U.N. peacekeepers to go into the volatile area. 
The pullback came as an international donors conference in Sweden pledged nearly $1 billion to help Lebanon rebuild, after the country's prime minister told the gathering that Israel's war with Hezbollah wiped out "15 years of postwar develop­ment." · 
Israel sent up to 30,000 soldiers into Lebanon during the 34-day war, and when the fighting ended they occupied a zone extending about 10 miles north from the border. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Possible melanoma treabnent found 
WASHINGTON -Mark Origer entered the last-ditch experiment hoping to beat back his melanoma for a few months. He got far lucki­er: Almost two years later, his body shows no · signs of the aggressive skin cancer. 
Government scientists rescued Origer and one other man with advanced melanoma by genetically altering their own white blood cells to turn them into tumor fighters. 
The National Cancer Institute called its experiment, unveiled Thursday, the first real success in the long quest for gene therapy for cancer -because it fought the disease's worst stage, when it had spread through the body, not just single tumors. 

Tropical storm Ernesto gains steam 
WILMINGTON, N.C. -Tropical Storm Ernesto picked up steam with surprising speed in the warm waters of the Atlantic and built toward hurricane strength Thursday as it swirled toward the Carolinas, forcing the closing of ports and campgrounds. . 
Virginia's governor declared a state of emergency and hundreds of National Guardsmen were activated there and in the Carolinas as forecasters issued a hurricane watch for the entire North and South Carolina coastline. 
Ernesto was expected to come ashore late Thursday near the South Carolina-North Carolina line. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Two walk away from plane crash 
GROOMSVILLE, Ind. -A plane crashed in a farm field during a flying lesson Wednesday, but neither the student pilot nor the instructor was injured. 
Both men walked away from the plane after it turned upside down during the crash in rural Tipton County about 40 miles north of Indianapolis. 
Steven N. Stants, Kokomo, was giving a flying lesson to Scott E. Post, Noblesville, about 6 p.m. when the plane apparently lost power at 1,000 feet, Sheriff Craig Henderson said. 
IRAN 





President defies U.S., deadline 
Country refuses to abide by U.N. request, insists on right to use nuclear technology 
Associated Press 

TEHRAN -Iran defied a  
U.N. deadline Thursday to  
stop enriching uranium,  
opening the door for sanc­ 
tions, but U.S. and other  
officials said no action  
would be sought before a  
key European diplomat  
meets with Tehran's atom­ 
ic chief next week to seek a  
compromise.  
Iran's hard-line presi­ 
dent, Mahmoud  
Ahmadinejad, lashed out  
at the United States, call­ 
ing it "tyrannical" and  
insisting Tehran would not  
be "bullied" into giving up  
the right to use nuclear  
technology. Other Iranian  
officials said the country  
could withstand any pun­ 
ishment.  
President Bush called for  
"consequences to Iran's  
defiance," saying the  
"world now faces a grave  
threat from the radical  
regime in Iran."  
"We must not allow Iran  
to develop a nuclear  
weapon," Bush said in a  
speech in Salt Lake City.  
He said Washington hoped  
for a diplomatic solution,  
but insisted "it is time for  
Iran to make a choice"  
APwhether to cooperate with  
the United Nations. Iranian ex-patriots demonstrate outside United Nations headquarters Thursday to  
John Bolton, U.S. ambas­denounce Iran's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's nuclear weapons program.  
sador to the United  
Nations, said the Security  The formal trigger for  the sole aim of producing  Confirming the plans,  
Council would wait to con­ possible sanctions was pro­ electricity with· nuclear  Bolton said the Security  
sider possible actions until  vided by the International  reactors.  Council would wait to con­ 
after the European Union's  Atomic Energy Agency,  The Security. Council  sider any action until after  
foreign policy chief, Javier  based in Vienna, Austria.  voted July 31 to impose the  European Union envoy  
Solana, met with Ali  In a report Thursday, the  Thursday deadline for Iran  Javier Solana met with Ali  
Larijani, Iran's top nuclear  U.N. agency confirmed  to suspend uranium  Larijani, Iran's chief  
negotiator, sometime in the  Tehran had not halted ura­ enrichment and asked the  nuclear negotiator, some­ 
middle of next week.  nium enrichment as  IAEA to report on Tehran's  time next week.  
"We're certainly ready to  demanded by the Security  compliance, dangling the  An official from one  
proceed here in New York  Council and said three  threat of sanctions if Iran  nation on the council said  
when we're given the  years of IAEA probing had  refused.  the meeting was tentatively  
instructions to do so,"  been unable to confirm  Still, with permanent  set for Tuesday in Berlin.  
Bolton said.  "the peaceful nature of  council members Russia  The official said senior offi­ 
U.N. Secretary-General  Iran's nuclear program"  and China opposed to  cials from the U.S., Russia,  
Kofi Annan also was  because of lack of coopera­ quick and harsh penalties,  China, Britain, France and  
expected to raise the issue  tion from Tehran.  the council appeared ready  Germany would meet in  
during a visit to Tehran  Iran denies it is trying to  to delay such action.  the German capital the fol­ 
this weekend.  acquire atomic weapons in  Senior U.N. diplomats told  lowing day. Those six  
Midnight Thursday ­the  violation of its commit­ The Associated Press that  nations offered rewards to  
last day of the Security  ments under the Nuclear  Iran had agreed to meet  Iran in June if it gave up  
Council deadline -passed  Nonproliferation Treaty.  with European negotiators  enrichment -but warned  
with no change in the  Tehran insists its nuclear  to try to find a compro­ of U.N. sanctions if it did­ 
Iranian position.  program is peaceful, with  mise.  n't.  


Manned spaceship in the works 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON NASA on Thursday gave a multibillion dollar contract to build a manned lunar spaceship to Lockheed Martin Corp., the aerospace leader that usually builds unmanned rockets. 
The last time NASA awarded a manned spaceship contract to Lockheed Martin of Bethesda, Md., was in 1996 for a spaceplane that was supposed to replace the space shuttle. NASA spent $912 million and the ship, called X-33, never got built because of technical problems. 
The nation's space agency chose Lockheed Martin, the biggest gov­ernment aerospace and defense contractor, to build the Orion crew exploration vehicle, which is once again supposed to replace the space shuttle fleet, t&ke astronauts to the moon and perhaps on to Mars. 
The only other competitors for the contract was a team made up of Northrop Grumman Corp., the world's largest shipbuilder and third-largest military contractor, and Boeing Co. 
In picking Lockheed Martin for Orion, described by NASA's chief as "Apollo on steroids," NASA bypassed Apollo throwbacks Northrop Grumman of Los Angeles and its chief subcontractor Boeing of Chicago. An early version of Northrop Grumman built the Apollo lunar lander. Companies bought by Boeing built the Apollo, Gemini, and Mercury capsules, Skylab and the space shuttle. 

"NASA decided to do something different and go with a company that has not been in manned space before, sort of spreading the ~ealth and making sure they've got two contractors that know the manned space business," said aerospace industry analyst Paul Nisbet, presi­dent of JSA Research. 
page 6 Friday, September 1, 2006 
The Observer + ADVERTISEMENT 


*WE'RE TALKING ABOUT NEWSPAPERS. HAVEN'T YOU HEARD OF PARIETALS YET? 
Meet editors from News, Sports, Viewpoint, Scene, Photo, Graphics, Ads & Business to find out what you could do for the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's daily. 
Please Join Us for 
. The Observer Open House at Saint Mary's 
Sunday, September 3 

3:00 p.m. -4:30 p.m. Student Center basement 

Friday, September 1, 2006 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
11,381.15 -1.76
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I ,933 164 I ,296 2,045,2~728.00 


S&PSOO 1,303.82 -0.45 FTSf IOO(London) 5,906.10 -23.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  -0.10  -0.04  38.87  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.36  -0.27  19.57  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -I.96  -0.10  4.99  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.39  -0.10  25.70  
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU)  -13.69  -0.36  
Treasuries  
I 0-YEAR NOTE  -0.65  -0.031  4.732  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.30  -0.0 IS  4.905  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.69  -0.034  4.878  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.91  -0.043  4.692  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.}  +0.23  70.26  
GOLD ($!Troy oz.)  +8.10  634.20  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.75  91.50  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  117.2100  
EURO  0.7810  
POUND  0.5253  
CANADIAN$  1.1043  

IN BRIEF 
Silver futures surge to 3-month high 
NEW YORK-Silver futures surged to their highest level in three months Thursday, as analysts cited good investment demand a day after the amount of metal held by an exchange-traded fund climbed above 100 million ounces. 
Gold followed, helped by both silver and a sharp gain in copper, analysts said. Continuing tension over Iran's nuclear pro­gram was another factor underpinning pre­cious metals. 
On the New York Mercantile Exchange, December silver settled 36 cents stronger at $13.03 a troy ounce. The contract peaked earlier in the day at $13.08 an ounce, which was its strongest level since May 31. 
December gold futures added $8.10 to close at $634.20 an ounce, after hitting a one-month high of $635 an ounce. 
Copper turned in a strong performance, as the market discounted news that striking workers at Chilean mine Escondida had come to a provisional settlement, which threatens to end a 25-day strike. 
Judge halts sale of generic Plavix 
NEW YOHK -A federal judge blocked sales of a generic version of blood thinner Plavix Thursday while he considers the mer­its of a claim that a Canadian pharmaceuti­cal company improperly entered the market. 
U.S. District Judge Sidney H. Stein issued his written ruling Thursday after a two-day hearing in which Sanofi-Aventis and its partner Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. insisted that the Canadian company, Apotex Inc., must be forced to stop selling its product. Stein denied demands by Bristol-Myers and Sanofi-Aventis that Apotex be forced to withdraw from the market the generic prod­uct it had already sold. -
Apotex had argued that a patent protecting sales of Plavix from competitors was no longer valid and that it was in the public interest to permit sales of its generic version of the drug because lower prices mean even more people can use a lifesaving drug. 
The Ontario-based Apotex began selling its product Aug. 8 after negotiations between the three companies failed to settle the dis­pute. 
Consumer spending increases 
Strong start to back-to-school shopping season boosts hope for economy prospects 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Consumers increased their 
spending in July by the 
largest amount in six 
months and the back-to­
school shopping season got 
off to a strong start in 
August, boosting hopes 
that the economy will not 
stumble into a recession 
this year. 

The Commerce Department 
reported that July consumer spending rose by a healthy · 0.8 percent, double the 0.4 percent gain in June, reflecting a rebound in 
auto sales. 

Meanwhile, many of the 
nation's retailers reported 
solid gains for back-to­
school shopping in August, 
led by better-than-expected 
increases at retailing giant 
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and 
many teen retailers such as 
Abercrombie and Fitch Co. 
and Wet Seal Inc. 

The new repqrts provided 
evidence that consumers are 
continuing to spend despite 
rising interest rates, a cool­
ing housing market and 
gasoline prices that hit 
records this summer above 
$3 per gallon. 

That is good news for the economy, given that con­sumer spending accounts for two-thirds of total economic growth. A slowdown in con­sumer spending in the spring contributed to a sharp drop fidence in August fell to its Americans filing new claims that the strong productivity in overall economic activity lowest point since last for unemployment benefits growth the country has and raised worries that fur­November, reflecting such dropped by 2,000 to enjoyed since 1995 "is likely ther consumer cutbacks adverse factors as the surge 316,000 last week. to continue for some time." could short-circuit the eco­in gas prices, the tumbling The government will The 0.8 percent rise in nomic expansion. housing market and the dis­release the August unem­spending last month, the 
Analysts said Thursday's covery in London of a new ployment report Friday and best increase since a 0.9 reports should ease concerns terror threat against airline many analysts are predict­percent rise in January, of that occurring. travel. ing the jobless rate will reflected in part higher 
"Consumers are hanging "Although consumer sen­decline from a five-month gasoline costs. However, tough and will continue to timent has deteriorated, high of 4.8 percent in July to even with inflation removed, support the expansion," said consumers are still spend­4.7 percent with a moderate spending rose by 0.5 per­Mark Zandi, chief economist ing," Nigel Gault, an econo­125,000 new jobs created. cent in July, the best per­at Moody's Economy.com. mist at Global Insight, said On Wall Street, the Dow formance since a similar 
Some analysts say overall regarding Thursday's Jones industrial average increase last December. economic growth in the sec­reports. edged down 1.76 points to An inflation gauge tied to ond half of this year may Many analysts said con­dose at 11,381.15 in a day consumer spending that is come in at a stronger pace sumer spending should of listless trading as cJosely watched by the Fed than expected, based on the rebound further as long as investors awaited Friday's edged up by just 0.1 percent rebound in consumer spend­the employment situation release of the jobs report. in July, the slowest monthly ing. But they said it was criti­does not falter. Federal Reserve Chairman gain this year, although over cal that consumer confidence There was good news in Ben Bernanke struck a posi­the past 12 months prices stabilize in coming months. that area as well Thursday, tive note about the economy are up 2.4 percent, well 
The Conference Board with the Labor Department in a speech Thursday in above the Fed's 1 percent to reported this week that con-reporting that the number of South Carolina, predicting 2 percent comfort zone. 

Investors await employment data 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -Wall Street ended an aimless session barely lower Thursday after investors shrugged off comments about productivity by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and awaited the govern­ment's August employment report. The major indexes ended August with gains. 
With Bernanke saying little to inspire the market in light pre-hol­iday trading, investors decided against making any major moves in advance of Friday's report on non­farm payrolls. The Fed chairman, speaking before an economic and devPlopment conference in South 
Carolina, said productivity growth is "likely to continue for some time." He said recent reports showing a short-term slowing in productivity didn't change his view. 
There are questions on Wail StrcH~t about whether the economy has slowed enough to ward off fur­ther intere8t rate hikes -or whether the Fed's 17 straight increases since 2004 might have tipped the economy too far. Productivity gains make it easier for the Fed to maintain a stable rate policy. 
The market was hard-pressed to hold on to gains from early in the session. It ultimately had little response to a Commerce Department report that consumer 

spending rose in July and that core consumer inflation eased, signaling that the current economic slow­
down might not be  as severe  as  
some have feared.  
Also  Thursday,  the  Labor  

Department released figures show­ing a drop in the number of recent­ly laid off workers filing for unem­ployment benefits. 
According to preliminary calcula­tions, the Dow Jones industrial average was modestly lower, down 
1. 76, or 0.02 percent, at 11,381.15. The Dow showed gains in each of the previous three ses­sions, and is now at a three-month high. For August overall, the Dow rose 1.8 percent, its best showing since April. 

p 
THE OBSERVER 
page 8 
Friday, September 1, 2006 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box n9, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Gilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
' AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDiffiRS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CoNTROLLER: Kyle West 






New technologies open campus 
Notre Dame students often criticize the University for being What's more, the "bubble" -bursting effort is not the product shielded by a seemingly impenetrable screen. Now, thanks to of a single campus office or organization. Cable television and the efforts of campus organizations, that screen is becoming wireless Internet come from the Office of Residence Life and more transparent. . Housing. The College Readership Program -delivering 1,600 
With access to more than 60 cable television channels, wire­copies of USA Today, The New York Times and the Chicago less Internet and three of the nation's best newspapers stacked Tribune -is the brainchild of a student senator and backed by high in the dining halls -the world and its student government. Students and the adminis­issues are only getting closer. O tJhe tration appear to be united on this front, comple­
userver

The increased exposure to national and world menting each other's work on an immeasurably events is striking -and, more importantly, per­important cause. manent. Both should be lauded for their initiatives, and
Editorial 

Unlike the myriad of "awareness" weeks that periodically flood campus with information about a select issue or cause, continuous exposure to national news makes the world outside Notre Dame more real than ever before. 
The habit of picking up a paper every day or tuning into the local news every night will serve students not just this fall, but throughout their lives. 
encouraged-to continue them. 
The University and student leaders have made the information available. Their efforts will b~ measured not by the number of newspapers picked up, but by what students choose to do with the information they now have. 
A student population that is better educated on world events should have no excuse for ignorance or complacency. With so much information available, to not know is to not care. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
fAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.I@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.I@nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574} 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students ofthe 
Univers.iry ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majoriry of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, leners and columns present the views 
ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe 
Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include · contact information. 
Quertions regarding ObserverpolicieJ ~hould be directed to Editor in ChiefMike GillmJn. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th< Observer (USPS 59') 2-4000) i• published Moruby through Frid.y a<:<pt during n2m .and v:ac..atiun pcrind5. A subscription ro The Ob5crver i" .$100 for one-ac:ukrnic year; $5S for on.r 5t:mester. 
The Ob.<m:r is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall St:nd address corrrcrions ro: 
Nom Dame. IN 46SS6-0779 Th< Observer 
rcriodical pvstag< paid at N..>tn: Dame P.O. Box 779 
and •dditional mailing oflkc:s. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nor« Dvnt. IN 46556-0779 
The Obs<rvor is a memt>er ofthe A.-s.>ciatcd Press. All t<j>t<>duction rights ue reserved. 

The devolution of evolution 
Normally, when the U.S. Department of Education (DoE) issues a 13 page memorandum of detailed rules relat­ing to a new federal grant for college students, a few financial aid directors will groan, a few stu­dents will cheer, and most people will con­tinue on as if nothing at all had happened. But not this year. 
Issued just this summer, the table of acceptable fields of study for the new Academic Competitiveness Grant reads like Einstein's shopping list: molecular biolo­gy, toxicology, computer science, mathematics, physics. These are only some of the scientific, engineering and linguistic majors to which Congress allocated additional funds, because it deemed them essential for the contin­ued success of the nation. 
Conspicuously absent from the list is major number 26.1303: Evolutionary Biology. 
The DoE claims that the omission was simply a "clerical error," but a closer inspection of the memo shows that 26.1303 breaks what would have otherwise been a sequ~nce of 1 0 con­tiguous biology majors, and, further­more, there is a blank line in the doc­ument clearly indicating an omission. Giving the obviousness of this "error," it is difficult to understand the removal as anything other than pur­poseful. Evidently someone in the DoE thinks that evolutionary biology is not an acceptable field of study. 
But, besides insulting to all of sci­ence, what does this omission actually mean? If you happen to be studying evolutionary biology this fall, it means that you could be out several thousand dollars of federal aid. However, in the grand scheme of things, it probably means very little. The ACLU has already threatened to sue if the major is not restored to the list, and chances are good that it will be 3:dded very soon. 
What is troubling about this incident 

Lance Gallop 

Tidewater Blues 
is that it is just one symptom of a much larger problem spanning the entire nation -sort of a bureaucratic canary in a mine-shaft. 
On August 11, the journal "Science" published the results of a study that examined American and Western acceptance of human evolution since 1985. While some of the results were promising, overall the conclusions of the study were profoundly negative. As of 2005, 39 percent of Americans rejected the concept of human evolu­tion, which places America second from the bottom among the 34 nations surveyed. Only the country of Turkey had a higher rate of rejection of this fundamental science. 
While this is a decrease of nine percentage points 

from 1985, at the same Evidently someone damentally grounded in time the percentage of in the DoE thinks evolution. This is not Americans who are advanced or specialized
that evolutionary 

uncertain about their scientific knowledge -it views on human evolution biology is not an is a basic, middle-school has increased at an acceptable field level understanding, astonishing rate, from which an unacceptable
ofstudy.

just seven percent in number of Americans judgments on topics that are grounded in biology. Future generations will no doubt look back on this era as a form­ative moment in our legal understand­ing of bioethics, in the same sense ·that the late 19th century was formative in our legal understanding of the role of private corporations. We should not take this lightly. 
Reproductive human and animal cloning, genetic discrimination, the implications of transgenetic modifica­tion, stem-cell research, therapeutic cloning and incidents of viral mutation 
(e.q. bird flu) are only a handful of the scientific issues closely linked to policy decisions that are currently being debated, and which are all fundamen­
tally grounded in biology. But biology itself is fun­
1985 to 21 percent as of 2005. One can safely conclude that most of those who no longer reject evolution outright end up in this inter­mediate category, and therefore much of the gain since 1985, though hope­ful, is nonetheless moot. 
As recent as May of 2005 we wit­nessed an unfolding comedy of errors, as the Board of Education of Kansas once again attempted to handicap the teaching of human evolution in its schools. Additionally, there are now several Republican conventions which have adopted campaign platforms that are openly hostile to the continued soundness of Americans' understand­ing of the concepts of evolutionary biology. 
This reason that all of this is impor­tant, notwithstanding the intrinsic value of scientific understanding and the profoundly troubling implications for our nation's cherished and essen­tial separation of church and state ­and perhaps even for religio'us free­dom itself-is that today the American people are increasingly called to make qualitative and ethical 

lack. I contend that with­out a firm understanding and accept­ance of evolutionary biology, we as a society are not equipped to make any kind of meaningful judgments about biologically oriented issues. 
Our nation has already lost a great deal because of the rejection of evolu­tion. It has diminished our ability to permit science to enlighten our spiri­tual understanding of the world. It has overthrown scientific fact as the stan­dard par-excellence on which to base public policy, and it has terminated the ability of a section of our popula­tion to do more than babble and wave its hands everywhere that public poli­cy and biology intersect. 
Lance Gallop is a 2005 graduate of the University ofNotre Dame. He can be contacted at comments@tidewa­terblues.com. This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial­ShareAlike 2.5 License. 
The z1iews expressed in this article are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Obserz,er. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Amanda Michaels Ken Fowler Joe Piarulli Jay Fitzpatrick 
What's your prediction for this footbaH season? 
50'4

Jenny Hames Chris Hine 
Viewpoint Scene -Joey King Marty Schroeder Graphics Brian Doxtader 
3 or more
Madeline Nies 
losses 
Jeff Albert 


2 losses 






ISubmit aLetter 
:iothe Editorat ~ 

_www.ndsmcobserver.com f 
~ ; 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The fact that a believer is happier than a skeptic is no more to the point than the fact that a drunken man is happier than a sober one." 
George Bernard Shaw Irish playwright 
p

Friday, September 1, 2006 page 9 



LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Western role in the Middle East 
Stereotypes versus 
statistics 
Clare Feeney raises a valid-sound­tion of killing civilians. Civilized ing objection ("Beware stereotyp­people do not strap dynamite to ing," Aug. 30) to my recent Letter to themselves and blow up cafes. the Editor ("An invalid assumption," Civilized people do not use hnspitals Aug. 29), suggesting, somewhat sar­and churches as staging areas. castically, that I am merely propa­Civilized people do not routinely use gating negative stereotypes, and children as human shields. Civilized falling only about half an inch short people do not execute women for of simply calling me a racist. being raped. Civilized people do not 
This is a brilliant rhetorical move, recruit illiterate teenagers for sui­but not stopping at simply lacking cide missions. Civilized people do in substance, Feeney goes on to not fly passenger liners into office engage in .moral equivocation wor­buildings. thy of Ward Churchill. Suggesting The wrongs may or may not have that our possession and historic use been done are completely irrelevant· of nuclear weapons makes us the -there is absolutely no justifica­moral equivalent of Iran displays tion for acts such as the ones listed moral blindness of the first order. above. These things are beyond the 
I never made the argument that pale and bar the people who com­the West is morally blameless. It is mit them from the ranks of the civi­possible for a civilized state to have lized world. Attempting to deal with engaged in terrible acts. Everyone those who perpetrate such has blood on their hands. But I did unspeakable acts as equals or act­advance the suggestion that terror­ing as if we're no better than they is ists are uncivilized and that dealing naive. with them as if they were civilized is a grave mistake. Ryan Davidson 
Civilized people do not deliberate­grad student ly launch rockets into densely popu­off campus lated areas with the express inten-Aug. 31 


Civilization, ceasefire 
and surrender 
How many letters can Clare Feeney get or country in question is an ally of the US. published in one week discussing her Otherwise, dictators and religious fanatics thoughts on the current situation in the world over are given free reign. If you Middle East? We get it. It's always the don't believe me, ask Kim Gandy or West's fault. That line of thinking is obvi­Jimmy Carter what they're doing about ous in her first piece ("Israel's a terrorist forced marriages in the Islamic world. state?" Aug. 28) considering her complete One would think they'd be interested. failure to mention the thousands ofindis­As to what Feeney considers our most criminate rocket launches at civilian tar­uncivilized act, the use of nuclear gets in Northern Israel by Hezbollah weapons against Japan ("Beware stereo­(some of which, along with the kidnap­typing," Aug. 30), it is pointless to discuss ping of Israeli soldiers, happened prior to this topic without any historical context. Israel's response) or the fact that those The appropriateness of their use will be launches came from civilian locations debated until the end of human history, within Lebanon, thus forcing the IDF to but two parts of the debate are fact. First, retaliate in kind. She also fails to mention 500,000 Purple Hearts were produced to that a considerable amount of the infra­be given to wounded soldiers during the structure in Lebanon that was destroyed invasion of Japan. The military would still was done so with the expressed purpose be using them if they hadn't changed the of preventing the re-supply of weapons design. Let that sink in. Second, Japan is from Syria and Iran. our ally and North Korea is not. When 
In Syria and Iran's case, I would char­debating the merits of cea.sefire vs. acterize countries known for their com­unconditional surrender in the Far or plete lack ofwomen's rights, minority Middle East (o·r elsewhere), the historical rights (both ethnic and religious). gay results speak for themselves. rights and the rights of political prisoners to be uncivilized. Call me crazy. but that Matt Alles probably fits the description in any belief alumnus system. The Left in this country only Class of2001 focuses on those rights when the leader Aug. 30 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

A modest 


proposal 

Skipping the tedious business of refutation, Clare Feeney devotes most of her August 30 let­ter ("Beware stereotyping") to diagnosing Ryan Davidson as suffering from a severe case of "savage Arab" stereotyping. This has led him to accuse Iran (which is not an Arabic state) of, in Ms Feeney's words, "making nuclear weapons for unfriendly purposes." In fairness to Davidson however, it seems possible that his conclusion might be based on more than just repeated viewings of Lawrence of Arabia. After all, Iran's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has been known to call for the Zionist entity (i.e. Israel) to be "wiped off the map." Admittedly, the accuracy of the translation has been ques­tioned, with some experts suggesting that the phrase is better rendered as "wiped off the pages of history." Maybe it sounds friendlier in· the original Farsi. 
Having said that, when Feeney says that America is in no position to make accusations about Iran's motives since "we are the only one who has actually dropped the bomb" she makes a strong, albeit ungrammatical, point. That is why I propose a radical new approach to the issue, which I call the "Everybody Gets One" policy. According to this policy every state rec­ognized by the United Nations. exception for the United States which has already had its turn, gets to fire nuclear weapons with a total force of 100 kilotons (the total for the two bombs dropped by the U.S., adjusted for infla­tion based on the increase in the world's popu­lation, and rounded up) at a state of their choos­ing without any recriminations. Then the sur­vivors can go about the business of establishing a sane and rational global nuclear policy unbur­dened by history on a leveled playing field. 
Either that, or we could try to stop judging the actions of nation states, including our own, in terms of friendliness and hypocrisy, as if they were giant superannuated people. 
Peter Wicks grad student off campus Aug. 31 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER 
E

page 10 


Friday, September 1, 2006 

We now bring you a commercial break 
It's an awful feeling. You're watching your favorite program or a big game and one of the commercial breaks features the utterly worst commercial you've ever seen. 
Whenever a commercial featuring Willie Nelson, Joan Cusack, old men fishing aqd promot­


ing Flomax, 
Dr. Scholls Sean Sweany or any South Bend 
Assistant

car dealer­ship pops on Scene Editor the screen, aRger and disgust start to arise like bile. 
I had this exact experience recently with a certain Dr. Scholls -commercial. Part of the "Are you gellin'?" series, the commercial plays on the word "gellin" and rhymes it with as many words as possible in an attempt to be funny. I became painfully aware of the fact that the writers of the commercial were trying far too hard to be funny, and the end result was a total lack of humor. 
"Why," I wondered, "can't all commercials be funny and enjoy­able?" 
I had in mind such commer­cials as the Geico caveman ads, Aflac commercials, anything fea­turing Red Stripe and even the Vonage commercials where a spokesman tries to promote cell phones while a lobster gets stuck in a revolving door. 
There is, of course, a reason for the disparity in funniness between various commercials. This disparity can be connected to a similar inconsistency found among stand-up comedians. Some comedians, such as Dane Cook, Mitch Hedberg and Jerry Seinfeld, are extremely funny, while others. such as Sarah Silverman and Gilbert Gottfried, lack the capacity to humor intel­ligent audiences. 
The difference lies in that the first three comedians do not overextend themselves in their approaches to humor whereas the latter two try excessively hard to woo audiences and fail in the process. Thus, the best humor is unforced, natural and produces unaffected and hearty laughter. 
Humor in television commer­cials functions in a similar man­ner. An ad depicting a caveman asking for roast duck at a restaurant is funny because it is not trying overly hard to be humorous. However, Dr. Scholls commercials trying to rhyme and ESPN Mobile commercials trying to use humor so subtly or wittily causes them to fall flat on a majority of television watchers and fail miserably. 

The source of many poor com­mercials is clearly the Super Bowl. While Super Bowl ad time has produced many outstanding commercials in past years such as the Office Linebacker and a prehistoric Fed Ex spot, just as many bad commercials have come from Super Bowl ad spots. Given large· amounts of money and a large public forum, writers overextend themselves and turn out horrible advertisements that in turn make it all right for more ads like these to be produced at times other than the Super Bowl. 
In the face of poor advertise­ments like the ones mentioned here and many others floating around the airwaves, it is neces­sary to ask what can be done to end the pain and bring about better commercial watching. Doing away with Super Bowl ads is not an option given that some of the best commercials origi­nate here. Simply muting the tel­evision or changing the channel when a horrible commercial airs also serves no purpose. The offending ad will still play even if you try to stage a one-person · revolt against the television pow­ers that be. 
I propose that a reality televi­sion show be developed in which commercial writers are subject­ed to a jury of "ordinary Americans" that has the power to sentence writers of bad com­mercials to punishments of watching their own commercials for hours on end. In one or two seasons, a show like this could weed through the entire popula­tion of commercial writers -for how many can there possibly be? 
In this way, I believe we can rid America of bad, unfunny commercial advertisements for­ever. Until then, we return you to your regularly scheduled pro­gramming. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Photo courtesy of brainfuel.tv Reebok's Terry Tate, "The Office Unebacker," Illustrates that com­mercials really can be funny with only 30 seconds of TV air time. 
DVD REVIEW 

'Friends' a smart, bold film 
By LAURA MILLER Scene Critic 
Writer/director Nicole Holofcener's "Friends with Money" is absolutely shocking. 
Joan Cusack (Franny). Frances McDormand (Jane). Jennifer Aniston (Olivia) and Catherine Keener (Christine) play four best friends who are struggling in the adjustment to middle age. Although it is advertised as a comedy, it most assuredly is not. It is funny, but it rises above this label (evidenced by it opening the Sundance Film Festival this year) and is also quite pos­sibly one of the most well-writ­ten and true-to-life movies to come out this year. 
The best thing about the script is that it allows the actors and actresses to be dis­tinctly human. There is no illu­sion of beauty. They look frumpy in the morning, they eat ice cream for breakfast and they bicker. At first, it feels. like a film that might take 88 minutes to go absolutely nowhere, but Holofcener gen­tly ties the film together in subtle outtakes of the charac­ters talking about each other. It is these clips of the more intimate discussions that taste­fully integrate the themes of the movie without forcing any specific message upon the viewer. Holofcener is wise in leaving issues open-ended, allowing the audience to draw their own conclusions and relate to the characters in their own unique way. 
Overall, the acting was phe­nomenal, but it is clear that Aniston is not as comfortable out of the comedic setting as her costars. This is the first film in which Aniston is seen departing from her traditional role -and while it is not a seamless transition, her acting like "Divine Secrets of the Ya­Ya Sisterhood" and shows like

Friends With Money 

friensJs .. ;_~

h,m10f1e)l "Desperate Housewives" have miserably failed to achieve -a
Full and Widescreen Edition 

woman's perspective on family life that is not anti-male. IfSony Pictures nothing else, this movie is edu­cationaL 
Contact Laura Miller at lmiller8@nd.edu 
,..,.... ·. 
Jk.·· ,,. 
'l' .i 

·.·~J! 
~ :_ ~ 

'-;-~
..~I ·,:: 
~-:·­

.......
~ 
~.. 
Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 

Catherine Keener stars in the emotionally complex and highly engaging "Friends With Money" as Christine, a woman struggling with her marriage who finds comfort In her friends. 

is promising at the very least. 
Cusack nails her wealthy soccer-mom persona and McDormand's picture of Jane going through menopause is so perfectly scary that it leaves the audience praying that their mothers (or themselves) are never that bad. 
Keener also does a fantastic job showing a woman s.trug­gling with her marriage with­out going too far. These depic­tions are what make this movie great. It is real and the prob­lems encountered are real problems. Money. Friends. Divorce. There is no spastic soap opera plot with the ex­wife's husband's child getting pregnant, b.ut rather, a thoughtful outlining of every­day problems and event in the life of the middle aged -get­ting burnt on the stove, notic­ing wrinkles, etc. 
The film also translated well to DVD, in part because of the simplicity of the cinematogra­phy and a larger emphasis on dialogue. The extras are sparse, but actually worth watching. Deleted scenes or music videos are absent, replaced with actor and direc­tor interviews. If the movie didn't make the viewer see these actors and actresses as real people, the extras certain­ly do. They show crew at the Sundance Film Festival clad in jeans and casual shirts, hair in ponytails and minimal make­up. These women looked their parts. They were passionate in their interviews, describing the script in terms of an emotional process -not a "this movie was fun to make" response. It was refreshing to see some big Hollywood names looking and feeling so comfortable in their own skins. 

Over the past years, few good movies about women's issues have been released. This movie achieves what films 

Friday, September 1, 2006 page 11 

Celebrities always under public's keen eye 
By ANALISE LIPARI Assistant Scene Editor 
It's been more than a year since Tom Cruise took to the couch on an unassum­ing broadcast of "The Oprah Winfrey Show," declaring his love for much younger actress Katie Holmes. Viewers were intrigued -albeit somewhat shocked-at this up-close-and-person­al exposure to Cruise's formerly very pri­vate life. 
Cruise's antics during the year that fol­lowed only added to the perception that he was odd, or even slightly disturbed. Few can forget his famously calling Matt Lauer "glib" while discussing anti­depressants on "The Today Show," while still fewer can watch a Cruise film with­out the thought of his bizarre endorse­ment of Scientology on their minds. 
It is true that "Mission Impossible III" did yield more than $400 million dollars worldwide during its on-screen run. However. Cruise's recent split with for­mer partner Paramount, allegedly due to his recent behavior, suggests that the power of negative public opinion remains an indelible factor in Hollywood. 
The experiences of Cruise and other celebrities, such as the recently maligned Mel Gibson, call to mind the question public perception in an enter­tainer's career. When entertainment magazines revealed the details behind the gates of Neverland Ranch, that infor­mation undoubtedly altered Americans' opinion of Michael Jackson. Charlie Sheen's recent redemption from the 
bowels of Tinseltown has been ham­pered yet again-this time by the accu­sation of former spouse Denise Richards of alleged wrongdoing during their brief marriage. 
Be it through tabloids, E! Entertainment Television or the internet, the American -and the increasingly global -public finds more evidence of a seamy underbelly to their favorite stars' lives. Often, these revelations can have a powerful impact on those actors' or actresses' careers. 
Is it right to judge a man's craft based on the details of his private life or per­sonal opinions? Despite the truth or fal­sity of this question, history has shown in the end, the public has the final say. 
Actors are not alone in this uncomfort­able circumstance. Nineteenth century Britain shunned the formerly beloved playwright Oscar Wilde, upon discover­ing that he had been convicted of engaging in homosexual behavior. Politicians are clearly not immune from public scandal. as Americans have seen in the damaged reputations of Trent Lott, Bill Clinton and even John F. Kennedy. 
It is a peculiarity of entertainment, however, that success is so tightly linked to public opinion. To put it bluntly, if an actor or actress has no audience, they simply will not act. The crux of the prob­lem lies where the public's enjoyment of celebrities' screen personas and its fas­cination with celebrities' personal lives intersect. Where one ends and the other begins is the question that must be asked. 
Disconnection with that audience due to personal behavior casts a negative, and often irrevocable, shadow. Despite being a nation of self-proclaimed' free thinkers. American sensibilities still con­tain a strain of Puritan ethic, and social norms still have a say in the actions of c·elebrities. 

The future success of men such as Cruise and Gibson remains to be seen. Bouncing back from scandal can take precious time and money. However, the ultimate redemptive factor may just be the passing of time. In the annals of film history, Orson Welles is remembered more for the critical darling that is 1941's "Citizen Kane" than he is for the tailspin of weight gain and bad career decisions made in his later life. Marlon Brando is remembered for being off-kil­ter, sending an actress posing as a Native American to collect one of his Academy awards. However, he is more remembered for his eternal portrayal as Don Corleone in "The Godfather" and Stanley Kowalski in "The Streetcar Named Desire." Some celebrities stand the test of time aside from abnormal behavior. 

Only time will tell how our genera­tion's stars are remembered. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
DVD REVIEW 
'Arrested Development' shines in third season DVD set 
By CASSIE BELEK Assistant Scene Editor 
After an unceremonious and much­debated cancellation, "Arrested Development" now has released its third and final season on DVD. The Emmy-win­ning series went from critical darling to cult favorite during its short run but never achieved the widespread viewership it so rightly deserved. 
The FOX Network did little to aid the success of the comedy by continually switching its time slot, cutting Season Three down to 13 episodes and air~g the last four episodes opposite the Torino opening ceremonies. FOX practically ensured the demise of the otlbeat series produced by Ron Howard. In the process, television lost its best comedy on Feb. 10, 2006. Thankfully, "Arrested Development" will forever be preserved on DVD in 53 flawless episodes. · 
The 13-episode third season continues to follow the exploits of the Bluth family, a dysfunctional bunch whose patriarch, George Bluth Sr. (Jeffrey Tambor), was arrested on multiple counts of fraud and light treason in season one. At the start of the first season Michael (Jason Bateman) -the only sane member of the family­establishes himself as the new leader ·or his family and the Bluth Company. 
This season begins with George Sr. being put under house arrest and Michael meet­ing British bombshell Rita (Charlize Theron), who is painted as spy that pre­tends to fall in love with him. 
The episodes continue with Tobias get­ting hair plugs only to have the transplant reject him (not the other way around), Maebfs relation to George Michael frnally being revealed, the introduction of new lawyer Bob 1oblaw (Scott Baio) and his
1 

Law Blog, J. Walter Weatherman return­ing for one glorious final lesson and the Bluth boys traveling to Iraq in search of evidence to exonerate their father. 
Special features on the two-disc set include audio commentaries on three episodes. Also included are 19 deleted and extended scenes, a bloopers reel and a look at the final shooting on location. 
"Arrested Development" is far from a failure, with three Emmy nominations and one win for 



Arrested Development 
Third Season 
20th Century Fox 



l(ltTrtTrtTr-
Outstanding Comedy Series. The smartest show not on television employs a massive amount of self­reflexivity, endle3s pop culture refer­ences and a contin­uous recycling of jokes and sight gags from earlier episodes, not to mention using Ron Howard as the spectacular narrator. The series joins the ranks of "Freaks and Geeks" and "Undeclared" as amazing shows that couldn't find an audience. 
For months, speculation circulated that Showtime would pick up the series, but when creator Mitch Hurwitz quit the show, that possibility died. There is now renewed buzz that the show will instead return as a feature film. a prospect Ron Howard him­self addresses in the series finale. While most of its actors have moved on to other projects, "Arrested Development" is still fighting for its life. 
Shrouded in dysfunction, the series is actually a celebration of traditional family values. Family unity remains paramount over women, money and loose seals with a taste for mammal blood. Its themes never caught the eye of mainstream America, but the fan ·base is spreading, particularly among college students. 


With its use of handheld cameras and abandonment ofthe laugh track, "Arrested Development" helped pave the way for shows like "The Office" and "My Name is Earl." The series could not find an audi­ence while on the air, but the Bluth family will live on through DVD, further establish­ing "Arrested Development" as one of tele­vision's all-time great comedies. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
Friday, September 1, 2006

page 12 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB-AL 
A-Rod stops slump as Yankees defeat Tigers 

was absolutely no just cause to
Devil Rays win in 10; 
throw me out of that game,"Royals fall to Twins Leyland said. 
Randy Johnson (15-10) allowed a pair of early home Associated Press runs to Magglio Ordonez and Omar Infante -the only hits he NEW YOHK -For Alex allowed through eight innings. Hodriguez, hitting is no big mys­Then a leadofl' walk in the· ninth tery. followed by Marcus Thames' 
"It's a matter of getting a good 24th homer made it close and pitch and putting a good swing spoiled Johnson's day. on it," Hodriguez said after he "I was disappointed about the had three hits including his 27th ninth inning," he said. "That's home run of the season in the me." New York Yankees 6-4 victory Johnson struck out eight and over Detroit on Thursday. "You walked one. Eight quality have the ability. It's a matter of innings didn't mean much to going out and being assertive him. "I didn't pitch a quality with the swing." ninth," he said. 
So how come A-Rod was 0-for-After Thames' homer, Mariano 10 and 1-for-24 going into Rivera finished for his 33rd save Thursday's game? in 36 chances. 
That's the mystery of baseball. He gave up a double to Hodriguez oflered some expla­Ordonez off the wall in right­nation. center, then retired Carlos 
"I swung the bat much better," Guillen, pinch-hitter Sean Casey he said. "It's a little of every­and Brandon Inge on ground­thing. When you swing well, it outs. doesn't matter what they throw. The focus is not on what I do. Devil Rays 5, White Sox 3 The focus is on what the team The Chicago White Sox keep does." wasting opportunities. "Congratulations," Guillen said win. He walked one, gave up five 
But Rodriguez was the Jorge Cantu hit a two-run sin­sarcastically. The New York Dominant at the Metrodome hits and threw 109 pitches. American League MVP last sea­gle in the 1Oth inning, and the Yankees have hit 200 homers in again, Santana struck out 11 in Against the team with the son and the highest paid player Tampa Bay Devil Hays beat the the past six seasons and have seven innings to help Minnesota worst record in baseball and in the game. So it's hard to avoid White Sox Thursday to keep 16 7 this year. end a three-game losing streak pitching at home, a victory by the focus, especially in a Sl}ason Chicago from pulling within 3 "It doesn't mean anything," with a win over the Kansas City Santana was a pretty safe bet. when he has committed 22 112 games of first-place Detroit Pierzynski said. "It's nice we've Royals on Thursday. lie has not lost in his last 21 errors, gone through long hap­in the AL Central. hit 200 home runs, but we need­"It's his ballgame. He's the starts in Minnesota, going 14-0 less stretches at bat and been "We don't do any good when ed to win this game." man," manager Ron Gardenhire since Aug. 6, 2005. the target of repeated booing at Detroit is losing and we're los­After winning two of three said. "We ran into Cy Young," said Yankee Stadium. ing," White Sox manager Ozzie from Tampa Bay, the White Sox Rondell White homered for the Kansas City's Mike Sweeney, 
It was a welcome change for Guillen said. "We need to win head to Kansas City for a week­Twins, who moved within five who went 1-for-4. "Johan is the 
'·· him when the sellout crowd the most games we can, and end series. games of first-place Detroit in top pitcher we've faced this demanded a curtain call follow­obviously it would have been "Two out of three from now the AL Central and one-half year." ing his seventh-inning home run nice to win today and be one on, I'll take that," Guillen said. game behind Chicago in the AL Royals starter Jorge De La 
' 

and manager Joe Torre nudged game {closer), but we didn't. Delman Young led ofT the 1Oth wild-card race. Rosa (1-2) gave up two runs, six him out of the dugout. "I didn't Watching the scoreboard right against Brandon McCarthy {3-5) With rookie Francisco Liriano hits and three walks while strik­think about it," Hodriguez said. now is too much, at least for with his fourth hit of the game, still working through soreness ing out three and pitching into "J haven't had one in awhile." me." took second on a wild pitch and and weakness in his left arm and the sixth -when he said he 
Before Hodriguez homered, Chicago, which remained a advanced to third on Carl veteran Brad Hadke fighting per­changed his motion. Detroit manager Jim Leyland half-game ahead of Minnesota in Crawford's groundout. Greg sistent pain in his right shoulder, He left the bases loaded for was ejected by plate umpire the AL wild-card race, has not Norton was intentionally walked making the playoffs will be reliever Joel Peralta, who bailed James Hoye for complaining on been within 3 1/2 games of first and Navarro walked on four tough with a suddenly inexperi­him out by getting Torii Hunter balls and strikes. It was his sec­since before play on July 19. pitches, loading the bases for enced rotation. to ground into a double play that ond ejection this season. "This is a game we should've Cantu, who singled to left. But as long as Santana is scored Mike Hedmond for the 
"I didn't like a couple of situa­won. We had chances and we "I was just trying to put a good around, anything is possible. go-ahead run and striking out tions that were called," he said. just didn't get it done," said A.J. swing on the ball and get on "I don't try to put pressure on White. "But I didn't put on a big show. I Pierzynski, whose two-run base so the people behind me myself or anything like that," That run was the last bit of was down in the dugout." homer in the sixth gave the could drive me in," Young said. Santana said. "I just want to do support Santana needed. Pat 
After he was ejected, Leyland White Sox a 3-2 lead. "Cantu came through." my job. Neshek pitched a scoreless came on the field, stopped argu­Dioner Navarro tied it with an Hopefully everyone will get eighth, and Joe Nathan did the ing during the singing of "God eighth-inning homer off Matt Twins 3, Royals 1 together and win some games." same in the ninth for his 28th Bless America," and then Thornton. Two of Minnesota's best start­Esteban German's just-barely save. resumed the argument, with With Pierzynski's homer, the ing pitchers are ailing, and the home run in the sixth inning was Jason Bartlett hustled for a crew chief Larry Young separat­defending World Series champi­Twins are trying to stay in post­the only score against Santana double and then scored an extra ing him from lloye. ons became the first major season contention. (16-5), who leads the league run in the eighth, when he stole 
"In my opinion, the umpire got league team to hit 200 homers in Johan Santana shrugged off with a 2.95 EHA and is 7-0 in the third and came home on cateher real trigger happy. I felt there seven straight seasons. the burden and got another big second half. John Buck's throwing error. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. · 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Condo for sale 2 bdrm twnhse call Rent a home NO football weekends. Rental homes 3-6 bdrms. Close to A BUSINESSMAN PAYING TOP$$ TOP$ PAID FOR NO FOOTBALL 269-445-2765 574-784-8638. NO. Call Gary FOR SEASON TIX OR INDIVIDUAL TKTS 289-9280 WANTED 57 4·993·2208. GAMES. CALL MARK 574-277· 
NOW LEASING FOR 2007-2008 1659. SOCCER REFEREES -needed for FoR RENT STADIUM CLUB CONDOMINIUMS New lodging for ND home games 2-PERSONAL south side elementary school, locat-Spacious 2bdrm 2ba. Washer/Dryer. bedrm apt above Mishawaka bar AN ACTUAL ABOVE-AVERAGE ed near Erskine Golf Course on B&B lodging w/alum for NO footballCall Susan Miller at 243-7530. Dates avail. -call 360-8165. ABIDING FAN DESPERATELY UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Miami Street. $35.00 per soccer games. 574-243-2628 or gary-NEEDS FOOTBALL TIX. ANY OR not go it alone. If you or someone game. Call574-291-4200 therese@ yahoo. com Why pay for a hotel when you can ALL GAMES. LOCAL CALL 654· you love needs confidential support 
have all the comforts of home? Two TICKETS 0169. or assistance, please call Sr. Sue 
Blue-Gold Shop looking for part· 2 rooms in private home w/separate 1 brm apts. across the hall from Dunn, OP, at 1·7819. For more time help on game weekends & entrance for football weekends. each other avail for home games. WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251-NO :ilum will trade 2 Army tix for 2 information. see our bi-weekly ad in throughout the week. Please fax Shared bath. Close to NO. 574-259-Queen bed+ futon. 5 min. to NO. 1570 UCLA. 813-978-1001. The Observer. resumes to 57 4·255-9700 or email 8603. $800 each or rent both for $1400. 
to Service@ blueand9old.com Call today! 574-612-1519. FOR SALE: 00 NO alum seeks multiple ND/PSU www.ndgamedayroom.com 2-3-4 bdrms. Share w/FRIENDS. NO TICKETS. tix for my bachelor party trip. Will 50% off dep. if rented by BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam-232·0964 pay top $$! Please help! Contact Congrats to Matt Leinart on his new,
FoR SALE 10/1. pus homes & weekend rentals. Derek at albeit illegitimate, addition to his 
255-7000. Bluegoldrentals.com Need 4 ND·PSU tix -dengelkemeyer@ hotmail.com family! Home within walking distance to 75 alum seeks 4 for PSU game NO. Fully remodeled, like-new condi-JUST 2 BLOCKS TO NO! Stay at B&B (cont.) 2 night min. 3.3 mi. to 9/9/06. Pis call WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. Southem Bumblebees tion. Great neighborhood. 2 bdrms, Mo & Jo s off-campus lodging for ND 272·6305 714 523 0601 or email: TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY Scatter 'round the open f1eld $78,900. 574·292-1175 or ND-SMC events. aherenda@ comcast. net WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726. Crushed by Notre Dame www.bonzerllc.com $150/night, 2 night minimum. 1 New B&B available for ND-SMC 
bdrm available. events or anytime including extend-Need NO tix & parking pass all FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TICK-Hey Jaytar ..... Investment homes for sale near NO. For more info call ed stay. Wolfe.9@nd.edu or home games. ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232-YOU SUCK 866·521-8989 574-276-6459. 57 4-286-9995. 57 4-276·8507. 2378. Oh man I got you good 

Friday, September 1, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S wrRE SERVICES page 13 
Major League Baseball 
American league East 

team record perc. last 10 GB 
New York 79-53 .598 5-5 Boston 71-62 .534 2-8 8.5 Toronto 69-64 .519 4-6 10.5 Baltimore 60-72 .455 6-4 19 Tampa Bay 53·81 .396 4-6 27 
American League Central 

team record perc. last 10 GB 
Detroit 83-51 .619 4-6 Chicago 78·55 .586 5·5 4.5 Minnesota 77-55 .583 6-4 5 Cleveland 63-69 _.477 8-2 19 Kansas City 49-86 .363 4-6 34.5 
American League West 

team record perc. last 10 GB 
Oakland 77~56 .579 8-2 Los Angeles 70-64 .522 5-5 7.5 Texas 68·66 .507 4·6 9.5 SeaHle 63-70 .474 7·3 14 
National League East 

team record perc. last 10 GB 
New York 82·49 •626 9-1 Philadelphia 67-65 .508 7-3 15.5 Florida 65-67 .492 9-1 17.5 Atlanta 63-68 .481 6-4 19 Washington 55-77 .417 1-9 27.5 
National League Central 

team record perc. last 10 GB 
St. Louis 70·61 .534 5-5 Cincinnati 67·67 .500 3-7 4.5 Houston 65-68 .489 7-3 6 Milwaukee 62·71 .466 3-7 g Chicago 54·79 .406 1-9 17 Pittsburgh 53·81 .396 6-4 18.5 
National League West 

team record perc. last 10 GB Los Angeles 71-62 .534 6-4 
San Diego 68-65 .511 7-3 San francisco 65·68 .489 .. ?;6-4
·::~:~~:

ArlzoDa 64·69. .481 2·8 ......... Colorado }f{ fi1"71 .·.··:::.~2 2·8
·::;:~::::-:­···-:::};::;~;::.;:;···.
:·{;:::;::::::::::.:-:·· 


NSCAA/adidas Men•s Soccer Top 2o 
team  record  
1  Maryland  19·4-2  
2  Connecticut  16-3-2  
3  New Mexico  18-2-3  
4  Virginia  12-5-3  
5  North Carolina  17·4-3  
6  Ctemson  15·6-3  
7  SMU  14·6·3  
8  Creighton  15·5-3  
9  Akron  18-1-4  
10  UCLA  12·5-3  
11  California  14·4·3  
12  Indiana  13-3·6  
13  Penn State  13·7-2  
14  Duke  12·5-3  
15  NOTRE DAME  12·8·3  
16  Wake Forest  .13·8-2  
17  St. John's  11-6-5  
18  South Florida  13-6-2  
19  Cal State Northridge  15-4-3  
20  Santa Clara  13·6-3  

around the dial 
TENNIS 

U.S. Open, 11 a.m., 7 p.m., USA 
MLB San Francisco at Chicago Cubs, 2:20 p.m., WGN Chicago White Sox at Kansas City, 8:10 p.m., CSN Atlanta at Philadelphia, 7:05 p.m., TBS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Nevada at Fresno State, 10 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 

SAN DIEGO -Left-ban­der David Wells was trad­ed Thursday from the Boston Red Sox to his hometown San Diego Padres, who are seeking pitching as they contend for a playoff spot. 
"He's thrilled to be heading back to San Diego and, hopefully, helping get them into the playoffs," agent Gregg Clifton said by phone from Arizona. 
The defending NL West champion Padres were off Thursday. They were leading the wild-card race by a half game over Philadelphia and trailing the division-leading Los Angeles Dodgers by three ga:nes. 
A source told ESPN's Jerry Crasnick that the Red Sox would get minor­league catcher George Kottaras in the deal, which was first reported by ESPN The Magazine's Buster Olney. 
Kottaras is playing for Triple-A Portland, where he is hitting .233 with two homers and 13 RBI. The Red Sox organization is in need of catching, and Kottaras has a reputation as a solid defender. To be on a postseason roster, a player had to be in a team's organization by the end of Thursday. 
The 43-year-old Wells, 
IN BRIEF 

Tigers ski~per stops ar$Uing
for "God Bress America 
NEW YOHK -Jim Leyland put his argument with umpires on pause of a moment of patriotism. 
The Detroit Tigers manager was ejected in the seventh inning of Thursday's 6-4 loss to New York, and came on the field to argue with plate umpire James Iloye. 
Leyland got to the plate and started jawing with Hoye when Yankee Stadium public address announcer Bob Sheppard called for a mome.nt of silence followed by the playing of Kate Smith's rendition of "God Bless America." Leyland backed off, stood at attention and respected the moment before resuming the argu­ment. 
"That was a little embarrassing," Leyland said. "I certainly in no way, shape or form would I ever be disre­spectful. But you don't tell the umpires, 'Hey, I've got to listen to Kate."' 
who pitched with the Padres in 2004, was scratched from his sched­uled start Thursday night in Boston and designated for assignment. 
Wells' locker was nearly empty and four cartons were stacked in front of it before the game against the Toronto Blue Jays. Reliever Julian Tavarez was picked to start in his place. 
The 43-year-old Wells has a history of postsea­son success and has been one of Boston's best starters while the team has fallen far behind in the playoff race with an 8­21 record in August, the worst in the majors for the month. The Red Sox began the day eight games behind in the AL East and 7 and 1/2 games behind in the wild-card standings. 

Wells, who battled knee problems most of the sea­son, is 2-3 with a 4.98 ERA. Since returning from the disabled list on July 31, he is 2-2 in six starts. He has a 2.65 ERA in his last five outings beginning Aug. 5. 
Wells was expected to be in uniform when the Padres open a home series against Cincinnati on Friday night. He is expected to start for the Padres on Saturday against the Reds. 
Vinatieri still sidelined with 
injury to non-kicking foot 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indianapolis Colts expect an update Friday on the condition of kicker Adam Vinatieri, who has an injured non-kicking foot and will probably miss the team's final preseason game. 
Vinatieri's mother, Judy, told The Indianapolis Star that he told her several days ago that he had a frac­ture, the newspaper reported on its Web site Thursday. 
"They sent him to a specialist," Judy Vinatieri told the Star. "They found a small broken bone in his foot." 
Colts coach Tony Dungy declined Thursday to elaborate on Vinatieri's injury, saying he expected a team doctor to updatf' about the kicker's recovery on Friday. 
Colts spokesman Craig Kelly said that Vinatieri had not suffered any broken bones and that he was recov­ering from a sprained ligament. 

Ortiz released from hospital, 
expects to play Saturday 
BOSTON-David Ortiz said he is in good health after experiencing heart palpitations and expects to return to the lineup Saturday, welcome news for a Boston Red Sox team reeling ti·om injuries. 
"My health is fine. The doctors have told me to rest today and practice Friday so I can be ready to return to the playing field on Saturday," he said Thursday on radio station Z-1 01 in his native Dominican Republic. 
Manager Terry Francona was cau­tious about putting Ortiz back in the lineup. 
"I talked to David today," Francona said before Thursday night's homes­tand opener against Toronto. "I think he was very upbeat. I think the med­ical people are also, but, at the same time, we sent him home to be careful. So to deviate from that plan now would be, in my opinion, stupid, and we're not going to be stupid." 
~ 
~ 
\ \ 
\ page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, September 1, 2006 
~ 
\ \ \ 
\ 
{ 
I ( 
s 
~ ~ 
( 
( 
t 
I ( 
i > ( 
I 
WNBA 
TENNIS 

Monarchs rehrrn home 
Williams advances in Open 
for second Finals game 
an engagement at Arthur Ashe Stadium: The 17-year­old American was to sing "America the Beautiful" before the night session. 
"I'm really nervous," King said. "I don't know if I'll be more nervous .for that than my match." 
"The inflammation was pretty bad, and I just don't want to go off the court limp­ing," Agassi told USA Network. "It's not what I want to do." 
While Davenport was enjoy­ing her breakfast bagels, a crowd formed outside the fence at the practice courts to watch the 36-year-old Agassi warm up. 
When he wrapped up, Agassi made a teenager's morning wait worth it, signing the boy's forehead with a Sharpie. 
Former Open champion Andy Roddick said he expect­ed a game effort from Agassi. 
"I've never had a cortisone shot, but from what I've heard, you feel like you can run through walls," Roddick said. "He's been playing through that pain for a couple of years now, so I think he's used to it." 
Davenport didn't face a break point, compiled 11, and produced a 24-2 edge in win­ners. The match took all of 40 minutes. 
"I knew I had to come back tomorrow again and play, so I was trying to get out of here relatively fast. Not that fast," said Davenport, who quit dur­ing the final of a hard-court ' tuneup in New Haven, Conn., last weekend because of fatigue and soreness in her right arm. 
Laimbeer readies Shock to rebound from loss 
Associated Press 
DETHOIT-The Sacramento Monarchs accomplished their goal of grabbing home-court advantage from the Detroit Shock with a dominating per­formance in the opening game of the WNBA finals. 
But the coaches and players for the defending champion Monarchs expect to see a much different effort from the Shock in Game 2 on Friday. 
Detroit coach Bill Laimbeer is demanding more from his play­ers. 
"We're a very confident bunch and when we get an atti­tude, we're even more confi­dent," Laimbeer said. "We got frustrated and-a couple players started getting mopey and it atl'ects how you make shots and how you go to loose balls quiek­er and how you make rebounds. 
"That can't happen. . . . I told them, in the WNBA finals, the coach's job is to help get you there. When you get to the finals, it's a test of wills." 
The Monarchs, who won at Connecticut to open last year's finals series, set new records for points in a game and in a half with their 91-75 victory Wednesday night. And they beat Detroit at its own physical game, getting in the faces of the Shock players on defense and taking the ball straight at its usually solid interior defenders, including power forward Cheryl defense was what got us the win, and that's the type of team that we are," Walker said. "That's the type of team we've always been, and we know we can't win without it. We also know Detroit is going to come back at us in Game 2, so we've got to keep our focus and remain steady and not worry about Game 1. Game 1 's over." 
When they weren't pounding it inside, the Monarchs were lighting it up from the outside. Former Shock draft pick Kara Lawson scored 22 points, 18 from 3-point range -another finals record. 
The Monarchs forced 24 turnovers. 
But the Shock did have a few bright spots they hope to build upon. 
Ford scored a career playoff­high 25 points, many of which came from short range or the free-throw line after being fouled under the basket. And Katie Smith scored 21 points, Jiving up to her status as the all-time leading scorer in women's professional basket­ball in her finals debut. 
Ford, Smith and Deanna Nolan, who had 14 points, sco.red 60 of the team's 71 points. The key for Game 2 is to get more production from Riley and Swin Cash, the ·team cap­tain and one of the stars of the 2003 championship team. 
·Riley managed only two points in 15 minutes of playing time. 
Cash, who hasn't achieved the same level of consistency since a serious knee injury two years ago, was held scoreless in only 11 minutes in Game 1. 
6, 6-4, 6-2. 
A n d r e Agassi was on the night schedule, and once again could be playing his final matcli as a pro. 
He was set to face No. 8 Marcos Baghdatis, two days after getting a cortisone shot for an ailing back. 
No surprise, Arthur Ashe Stadium was already sold out to see him. 
The third-seeded Sharapova overwhelmed Emilie Loit 6-0, 6-1. 
The 19-year-old Russian won 2 8 of the first 31 points, and maybe there was some payback involved -in 2003, 

Ford and center Ruth Riley. In this year's playoffs, she's 
Post players DeMya Walker had just two double-digit scor­and Yolanda Griffith each ing nights and is averaging 7.5 scored 17 points for points per game, a few points Sacramento. below her regular-season pro­
"At the end of the day. duction. 

• 
IJII

: DANC~ • 
• for Notre l>ame & St.. Mary~s Students! • 
• C~onvcnient short tcnn adult classes in: • • Ballet., Jazzy Tap. lfip··hopy M<xiern~ • 
• L..yrical, Yoga & PiJates for beginners & 
• 

: experienced dancers. •
•

• ()utstanding staff & facilities at • : 3466 Douglas Rd. 
•
• 
• danc<."'<-~ucation.net 
• 

: c~au Today! •
•

• 247-1590 • 

• Great Food at Great Prices! • 
• Coke Products 
• 
• All Varieties •
•• 24 pk. -12 oz. cans •
• • Dasani Water • 
• 24 pk. -1/2 Liter Bottles 
• 

•e :110 S. Chapin St. 3601 E. Edison Rd. •e • South Bend South Bend Expires 9/4106 • 
Sharapova, Davenport move to third round 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Maria Sharapova switched outfits for a power lunch while Serena Williams changed her early luck, with both advancing to the third round of the U.S. Open with straight-set victo­ries Thursday. 
Lindsay Davenport served up the most impressive win ­a "double bagel" in tennis terms -and joined fellow former Open champions Justine Henin-Hardenne and 
Sharapova was knocked out of her first U.S. Open by Loit. 
Sharappva came out wear­ing a relatively simple pale blue dress. The previous night, she put on a sequined, black cocktail number that she said was inspired by her Audrey Hepburn "phase." 
Trying for her third U.S. Open title, Williams defeated No. 17 Daniela llantuchova 7­5, 6-3. She got off to a shaky start in the first set, not that she was keeping score. 
"Was I down 5-2? I didn't even know it," she said. "I just started focusing. She was doing everything right." 
Davenport showed no signs 
of the shoulder 
and arm prob­
Svetlana lems she
../just started
Kuznetsova in brought to the
focusing. She [Daniela 
posting easy tournament, wins. Hantuchova] was beating Jelena S e c o n d -Kostanic 6-0,
doing everything 
seeded Rafael 6-0.
right.,,
Nadal faced a It was the tougher test in first love-and­beating Luis Serena Williams love rnatch at llorna 6-4, 4-the U.S. Open
tennis player 
since 2002, 
when Venus 
Williams beat Mirjana Lucie by that score in the first round. 
"Some days, everything just seems to be working," said Davenport, the 1998 champi­on and seeded 1Oth this year. "These days don't happen that often, so you have to be happy when they come your way." 
The second-seeded Henin­Hardenne stopped Vania King 6-1, 6-2 while Kuznetsova defeated 16-year-old American Lauren Albanese 6­1, 6-1 . 
Despite her loss at Louis Armstrong Stadium, King had 

The Center for Ethics and Religious Villues in Business and The Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide 
Proudly Present 

Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
"Freedom on the Internet and the Ethical Responsibility ofIT Companies in China: A Panel Discussion" 
Panelists include: 

Lionel Jensen, Department Chair, East Asian Languages and Literature David Clairmont, Assistant Professor ofTheology Oliver Williams, Director ofCenter for Ethics and Religious Values in Business 
Georges Enderle, O'Neil Professor of International Business Ethics, will serve as moderator• 
All participants are faculty members at the University of Notre Dame. 
Tuesday, September 5, 2006 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
Friday, S~ptember 1, 2006 page 15
The Observer + SPORTS 
BASKETBALL 
Coach K succeeds with NBA stars 
USA to play Greece in Worlds semifinals 
Associated Press 
SAITAMA, Japan-As prac­tice wound down, Mike Krzyzcwski approached LeBron James, who was shoot­ing baskets alone on a side court. 
James listened intently as the coach spoke and motioned to a spot in the lane. The two talked for about 10 minutes before Krzyzewski rejoined his staff on another court and James went back to shooting. 
Who said NBA stars would never listen to a college coach? 
"You know the high-intensity coach that you see on TV," James said later. "You get a chance to see the warm side of him a little bit now on this trip. You get a chance to really know him." 
When USA Basketball appointed Krzyzewski coach last October, skeptics won­dered whether a college coach, even one as respected as Duke's Hall of Farner, would be able to connect with pampered pros. But those questions have subsided as Krzyzewski has led the U.S. to the semifinals of the world championships. 
The Americans already have advanced farther than they did in the 2002 worlds, when they finished a demoralizing sixth in Indianapolis. While the U.S. hopes to win this tournament, the ultimate goal is to bring home the gold in the 2008 Olympics in Beijing. If Krzyzewski does that, his con­siderable reputation will have grown exponentially. 
"Let's put it this way: A<> high up the totem pole as he is, his position will only be enhanced in the basketball world with the success of this program and the new relationships he has developed," said USA Basketball managing director Jerry Colangelo, who hand­picked his fellow Chicago native. 
For Krzyzewski, success with the U.S. team may bring renewed interest from the NBA. But having spurned a reported $40 million offer from the Los Angeles Lakers in 2004, Krzyzewski said he has no interest in coaching in the pros, even though he's enjoyed dealing with the NBA stars at the worlds. 
"This is an incredible, unique experience, and I love that experience," Krzyzewski said after a recent practice. "But I'm not going to be going to the NBA. I love coaching in col­lege. Whenever I get through coaching in college, that'll be it, whenever that is. I'm not saying that it's imminent." 
Tl)e 59-year-old Krzyzewski, a West Point graduate, accept­ed this job because he wanted to restore the U.S. to promi­nence in world basketball. Krzyzewski has won 753 games and three national titles in 26 years-at Duke and five at Army. But he hasn't led a team to an Olympic gold .medal, although he was an assistant on the gold medal-winning Dream Team in 1992. 
U.S. forward Shane Battier played for Krzyzewski at Duke and sees in his coach the same vigor at the worlds. 
"He's enjoyed the journey because it is so different from what he's been doing the last 30 years," Battier said. "And he is an individual who really gets off on those sorts of expe­riences and those challenges." 
At the outset, it was fair to wonder whether rich NBA players would be sufficiently motivated. But when Krzyzewski and Colangelo required players to commit through the Beijing Olympics, the 'likes of James, Kobe Bryant, Carmela Anthony and Dwyane Wade bought in. 
Once the U.S. had assembled its roster, Krzyzewski didn't worry about his wealth of NBA talent. He dealt with his play­ers as people, not celebrities. 
During training camp in Las Vegas this summer, Krzyzewski spent much of his time talking to players individually, just as he did with James at practice in Japan. He understands this is the NBA offseason and knows not to push too hard. 
"Even when we're doing five­on-five, if a guy's sitting out, I might go up to him and be able to do that instead of saying, 'Will you come to my room and have this meeting?' " Krzyzewski said. "That's rela­tionship-building. At least the first three days in Vegas, that's all I was doing. 
"Somebody would say, 'Well, who's the head coach?' " Krzyzewski said with a grin. "I don't know. There's this guy walking around talking to everybody." 
The players may have envi­sioned the sort of fiery speech­es Krzyzewski uses when Duke faces North Carolina. But his approach has been more low­key. 
"I really didn't know what to expect coming in," guard Kirk Hinrich said. 
Coffee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, September 5 7:30-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family. their friends. and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is welcome and conhdentlality is assured 

NCAA -FooTBALL 

Wildcats beat Red Hawks in opener 

NU bests Miami in memory ofdead coach 
Associated Press 
OXFORD, Ohio -With his number on their helmets and his nickname on their hearts, Randy Walker's players gave him one more tribute. 
Erryn Cobb blocked a punt and returned it for a touch­down Thursday night, helping Northwestern finally get beyond two months of mourn­ing with a 21-3 victory over Miami University. 
The entire night was a trib­ute to Walker, the 52-year-old Miami graduate and Northwestern coach who died two months ago of an appar­ent heart attack. The season opener featured a lot of emo­tion but no points in the first half. 
Coach Pat Fitzgerald, who was Walker's close friend and top assistant, watched his Wildcats find their stride in the second half behind red­shirt quarterback Mike Kafka, who threw a 19-yard touch­down pass. 
Terrell Jordan made the Miami fans head for home with a 4-yard touchdown run early in the fourth quarter that made it 21-3 _ too much for Walker's alma mater to overcome. 
Walker scheduled the game when he left Miami in 1999, agreeing to make North\\1estern only the second Big Ten team ever to visit Oxford. Walker was remem­bered during a pregame trib­ute behind one of the end zones, where a plaque with his likeness was unveiled. 
There was a moment of silence before the kickoff, and Walker's wife, Tammy, went on the field for the coin toss. Players from both teams wore 

a decal with Walker's uniform 
number and nickname just 
above their facemasks. 
Northwestern players also had a rectangle that said "WALK" sewn on the front of their jerseys over their hearts. 
Video and photos of Walker's career were shown on the scoreboard at halftime, lend­ing the feel of a memorial instead of an opener. Two list­less offenses provided little distraction in the scoreless first half, a reflection of the mutual inexperience at quar­terback. 
In Walker's · wide-open offense, the Wildcats averaged more than 500 yards per game last season behind Brett Basanez, the school's career passing leader. His replace­ment started out playing like a freshman. 
Kafka went 7-for-11 for a measly 26 yards in the first half. In two telling throws, he bounced passes at the feet of wide-open receivers on back­to-hack plays. 
His counterpart had his own problems. Junior Mike Kokal made only his second career start for Miami, which man­aged 54 yards in the scoreless half against a defense that fin­ished last in Division 1-A last season. 
Maybe that was another appropriate tribute. Walker never minded a low-scoring game. A star tailback at Miami, he preferred the slog­it-out style -his spread offense was a matter of neces­sity, not deeply held philoso­phy. 
Cobb, a senior tight end, broke the stalemate by break­ing through the line on Miami's first punt in the sec­ond half and batting Jake Richardson's kick to the ground. The ball bounced straight up, and Cobb caught it cleanly and ran 8 yards for his first career touchdown. 

I \ 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 1, 2006 

MLB-NL 

Sanchez leads league in average
l 
\ 
Unkown third baseman outhitting superstars 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -Batting cham­pionships once came with relent­less regularity for the Pittsburgh Pirates, who won nearly one­quarter of all the National League titles during the 20th century. 

\. But who expected Freddy Sanchez, the Red Sox castoff and a utility infielder at the start of the season, to challenge for their 25th title and first since 1983? Certainly the Pirates didn't. 
Sanchez, in his first season as a regular at 28, takes an NL­leading .347 average into September after hitting .301 or better every month this season. 
If he can maintain that consis­tency, and no one behind him gets unstoppably hot, Sanchez could join former Pirates such as Hanus Wagner (eight titles). Roberto Clemente (four) and Paul Waner (four) as an NL champion. 
He would be their biggest out­of-nowhere winner since Matty Alou, once a journeyman out­fielder, changed his batting approach after being traded by the Giants and jumped his aver­age from .231 in 1965 to .342 in 1966. 
Can he do it? Sanchez doesn't know, and doesn't talk much about his unanticipated pursuit of the silver bat. But after hitting .354 in August (39-of-110)-he hit .360 in May and .380 in June -he has answered the doubters who suspected he couldn't stay in the race long-term after mov­ing into the lead July 3. 
"I do have confidence in my 

i 
~~ 
', ' 
) 
~ 
ability, but I was .always labeled as a utility guy and it can be hard to shake that label," he said. "This isn't something I thought about and it's just hap­pened." 
If anyone with the Pirates says he saw this coming, he's not telling the truth. As manager Jim Tracy said, "Did I expect him to contend for the batting champi­onship? No." 
Sanchez hit .291 in 453 at-bats last season, mostly at third base, yet the Pirates went out and signed Joe Randa to a $4 million contract to be their third base­man. Sanchez? He was supposed to be their super sub, a guy who would get regular at-bats at every infield position. 
If nothing else, this illustrates why the Pirates are one loss from a 14th consecutive losing season: They had a potential bat­ting champion and NL All-Star on their roster, yet didn't make him a regular until he forced them to do so in early May. 
"He never complained," Tracy said. "Give him a lot of credit. He handled it very professionally." 
The 5-foot-1 0, 180-pound Sanchez is more than a singles hitter. He has 45 doubles, two off the club record for a right-hand­ed hitter, a total never approached even by Hall of Farner Clemente. 
"He can flat out hit," said Pirates pitcher Marty McLeary, who came up in the Red Sox sys­tem with Sanchez. "He's always found a way to get it done." 
Sanchez also has been excep­tional in the clutch. His two-run single in the 11th inning Wednesday gave the Pirates a 10-9 win over the Cubs and raised his average with runners in scoring position to .419, the highest among NL players with 40 or more such at-bats. 
And while Albert Pujols often is called the NL's best clutch hitter, consider this: Going into Thursday's games, Sanchez had 65 RBis with runners in scoring position to Pujols' 68, even though Pujols had 39 homers to Sanchez's 6. 
Pujols, by the way, is making $14 million this season to Sanchez's $342,000. 
"He's been Mr. Clutch all year," Jason Bay said of Sanchez, who is trying to become the Pirates' first batting champion since Bill Madlock in 1983. 
Sanchez's enthusiasm, always­on personality and love of the game have turned his teammates into his biggest fans. He still likes taking batting practice, much as he did when he passed up Friday night dates as a California high schooler to hit in batting cages. In the minors, he had averages of .339, .328 and .341. 
"There isn't a guy in that club­house who isn't rooting for this kid to win the batting champi­onship," Tracy said. "He's just amazing. If you handed out bal­lots at the start of the season list­ing potential candidates to win the batting championship, I don't know of his name would have been on the list. Now he's a play­er who people will keep an eye on for years to come." 
Teammates such as Jack Wilson are urging Sanchez to not read the papers and skip watch­ing TV sports highlights so he doesn't get caught up in the race and starts pressing for hits. Not that they expect that from a hit­ter who has had consecutive starts without a hit only twice all season. 
"All you try to do is put the ball in play," Sanchez said, "And find some holes." 



l

• Clear Coat 
J
OFF 

• Premium Soft Cloth 
I 

Wash I I i
OUR j 
• Pofish-n-Seafer Wax Applied 
I

• 2-Step Underbody
BEST I J 
•j

Protectant 
52694 State Road 933 1 South Bend, Indiana 46637 t

• Spot-Free 
Rinse Offer good at the South Bend location only :
WASH 

·--------------------------------~ 


Friday, September 1, 2006 page 17
The Observer + SPORTS 

Broncos 
continued from page 20 
soccer because two top teams play each other early every year." 
Notre Dame's first game of the Classic will be tonight at 
7:30 against USC. Despite Notre Dame's intense football rivalry with the Trojans, the two women's soccer teams 
have not played a  regular  
season  game  during  
Waldrum's tenure.  

"Certainly, the two institu­tions have a lot of competition with each other, but the only time we've played them while I've been here was in a spring [exhibition] game," Waldrum said. ''I'm hopeful that after getting them here this year, this is a relationship we can continue after this year." 
The Broncos and Irish, on the other hand, have played several hard-fought games over the last few seasons. In 2003, Notre Dame won 2-1 in Santa Clara on a goal by then-sophomore Katie Thorlakson. In 2004 the Irish beat the Broncos twice ­once by a score of 5-2 in the regular season and then 1-0 in the national semifinal. 
Last season, Santa Clara ended its losing streak, beat­ing the Notre Dame 1-0 at the Broncos' home field. 
The Broncos are generally known for the explosive offense, but have only scored two goals in their first two games -a pair of 1-0 victo­ries over Wake Forest and Utah. Irish defender and sen­ior captain Kim Lorenzen said Notre Dame stiJl has to respect Santa Clara's for­wards. 
"Santa Clara is a challenge for us because they're very technical and creative where they're on the attack," Lorenzen said. "They're one of the best attacking teams in the NCAA." 
The Irish back wall will be once again without sopho­more defender Carrie Dew who, along with sophomore forward Brittany Bock, is competing in the U-20 World Championships in Russia. Freshmen Amanda Clark and Haley Ford have alternated in Dew's spot and will be called upon to help slow down the powerful Bronco attack. 
"[Clark and Ford] have real­ly stepped up," Lorenzen said. "We haven't missed a beat with Carrie gone, but at the same time we're really excit­ed to have her back starting next week." 
As for the Trojans, they come into tonight's contest 1­0-1, with a 4-1 win over UC­Santa Barbara and a score­less tie with UC-Irvine last weekend. While the two teams haven't played in a while, Lorenzen said the Irish have been focusing on USC this week and trying not to look ahead to Sunday against the Broncos. 
"We haven't played [USC] since I've been here," Lorenzen said. "I don't know anyone personally on their 
team, but most California schools are really good pro­grams. We're not looking past them at all." 
Notes: 
+ 
Lorenzen, sophomore forward Kerri Hanks, and freshman midfielder Courtney Rosen saw reduced playing time last week due to muscle 

+ 
Waldrum said he has not decided which goalie-fresh­man Kelsey Lysander or jun­ior Lauren Karas -will start against USC tonight. Lysander started last Saturday against Iowa State, while Karas start­ed last Sunday against Ole Miss. 


pulls  in  their  legs,  but  
Waldrum said all three  are  
healthy for this weekend.  

"We'll make a decision of who we start on Friday and then maybe we'll decide to [start the other one on Sunday] again, or not," Waldrum said. 
+ 
USC and Santa Clara will both play Harvard this week­end as part of the Inn at Saint Mary's Notre Dame Classic, but the Irish will not face the Crimson, nor will the Broncos and Trojans play.

+ 
Waldrum said he expects big crowds for the two home games, especially tonight. 


"I'm hoping that we get a really good crowd," he said. ''I'm sure the students want to do something the night before football season gets started." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
FRIDAY, SEPT. 1sT@ 7:30 vs. #17 USC SuNDAY, SEPT. 3RD @1:00 vs. #3SANTA CIARA 
THE FIRST 300 FANS TO EACH GAME WILL RECEIVE A 
FREE COLEMAN WATER JUG, SPONSORED BY THE lNN AND SAINT MARY'S. 
Belles 
continued from page 20 
mark  at  the  6K  MIAA  
Championship.  
White  hopes  to  pick  up  

where she left off at the end of last year after a summer of track workouts and hill train­ing Bautcrs implemented. 
"[Bautersl has really taken our program to the next level," White said. "Jackie has a strict plan for our team, but I think that kind of seriousness of effort is needed." 
Saint Mary's sophomores also add experience to the 
SHARP AIM 

fold. Kelly Biedron was a steady performer all last sea­son, posting times that were among the top half of the field in each race. Caitlin Stevenson will also be counted on to pro­vide consistency after improv­ing her times during the final three races of the 2005 sea­son. In addition, Grace Fey looks to continue her improve­ment after posting several low times last season. 
The regular season kicks off Sept. 8 with the Aquinas College Invitational in Grand ·Rapids, Mich. 
Contact Becki Dorner at rdorner1@nd.edu ... 

Notre Dame quarterback Evan Sharpley throws during the team's practice in the Loftus Center Thursday. Sharpley is No. 2 on the quarterback depth chart for Saturday's game against Georgia Tech in Atlanta. 
Pacific CoastConcerts "rl)(ldly Prfltnh in South Bend (4 Speclol tvtni~ of Christion Musk 


AMY 
GitfirtT 

with the South Bend Symphony 
TONIGHT! •8:00p.m.~ Morris Pqrforming Arts (qntvr~ 
GREAT Titkqts stiH On Salq fit · Morris Box OffKv, Chargt By Phont 574/215-9190 Or Onlint www.morrisctnttr.org 


Write Sports. Call Ken at 
631-4543. 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 1, 2006 


Indiana 
continued from page 20 
The Irish expect the competi­tion to be just as stiff this year. 
"Whereas last weekend's tournament had three top-20 teams, you're talking about four top-20 teams this weekend," Notre Dame head coach Bobby Clark said, referring to Saint Louis, Indiana and No. 16 
. Connecticut. "These are all potential Final Four teams." Competitive games are noth­ing new when Notre Dame and Indiana take the field together. Over the past five seasons, the two teams have split their six contests, and it was the Irish who ended the Hoosiers' bid for fl second consecutive national title last November with a 2-0 win in the second round of the NCAA tournament. "There's a very healthy respect for the other in both camps," Clark said. "It's been a hard fought rivalry with great games, and we're lucky to have such a quality opponent in such close proximity." Indiana will enter this week­end with a record of 2-0-0 after finishing in first place at Notre Dame's Berticelli tournament last weekend. The Hoosiers defeated Creighton 1-0 in dou­ble overtime and edged UAB 2­

1. The Irish, who finished in second place with a record of 1­1-0 in the tournament, will have a chance to repay the favor this weekend. 
Notre Dame's other opponent this weekend, Saint Louis, has an impressive history at the Classic -owning an all-time record of 10-1-3. The Billikens also have a 9-3-1 record all­time against the Irish. Notre Dame, however, won the only match-up between the two teams last season by the score of 1-0 in overtime. 
Clark sees this as a positive in the high levels of competition this weekend for his team. 
"I believe in playing the best possible schedule you can," he said. "You only have eighteen regular season games, and you want to make every game as good as possible. Athletes love pitting themselves against good competition, and that's when you find out who the true com­petitors are." 
Plus, two wins this weekend will send a message. 
"It's an early opportunity to make a statement," he said. "We can either pass that oppor­tunity or grab it with both hands. I hope we grab it with both hands." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

Irish senior forward Justin McGeeney lines up a kick during Notre Dame's 4-1 win over Creighton Sunday. Notre Dame faces No.8 Indiana and No. 25 Saint Louis this weekend. 


Saturday -a match in which showing at the Chicagoland NCAA round of 16-as did the freshman Christina Kaelin had Classic. The Irish are 20-3 all­Irish.
CSTV 

24 kills and earned Big East time against the Crusaders, who "It's hard at this point, every­continued from page 20 rookie of the week honors. are the second most-common one has just played one week­
Despite the Falcon shutout, opponent in Notre Dame history. end," Brown said of gauging the have a chance to win all of Brown said she would like to see Idaho (0-3) has struggled in competition. "A lot of it, we're them." her individual hitters improve the early season, losing three going to have to be able to use
}i 
With the strenuous schedule of their efficiency in order to matches to Oklahoma, Arkansas the depth we have on the team.
H 
the Invitational and its early increase the team's overall per­and North Carolina. This will be By the time we play on Sunday,
); 
\i:·, position in the season, Brown centage of success-only the third time fatigue comes into it. But I feel sees the tournament as a start­ful shots made. that the Vandals we're in really good shape. It's ing point from which the Irish T·he team has ..We need some and Irish have just going to be the ability to can gel rather than a must-win also been working met, with the concentrate on one match at a
time to work out 
series. all week on shot series tied at one time for sure."
the kinks. •·
"It's important that we play in selection, serving apiece. Notre Dame has won the a sport that there's a tournament and transition Missouri (3-1) Invitational eight times ­at the end," she said. "It's not offense in practice. Christina Kaelin and Santa Clara including five in a row -and something that will be critical to "I think it's really (3-0) are both top-holds a 27-4 all-time record in
Irish freshman 
the success of the season. It is realistic. It's going 25 ranked teams it. something that will help develop to be a hard thing and fresh faces for "I'm excited. It's something the chemistry and confidence of to do," Kaelin said of earning the Irish -this is the second I've never been a part of before, the team. We know that we're four wins this weekend. "We're and first time, respectively, that we're all looking forward to it," going to learn a lot from the going to have to play really well Notre Dame has faced these Kaelin said of the tournament. weekend, no matter the out­since we have so many new peo­opponents. Santa Clara "It's a challenge, and we're all come." ple on the court. We need some advanced to the NCAA tourna­ready for it." 
This will be the first match the time to work out the kinks." ment semifinals just a year ago Irish have played since a 3-0 vic­Valparaiso {3-0) comes into before losing to No. 1 Nebraska Contact Kyle Cassily at tory over Bowlirig Green on the weekend off a three-win and Missouri made it to the kcassily@nd.edu 
f 
f 
I 
~ 
~ 
I~ FRIDAY, SEPT. 1sT@ 7:00 vs. VALPARAISO @!:!." 

NOTtE bAMf fOOO SUV1(U

~ 
,fREE SCHEDULE GLASSES TO THE FIRST 250 FANS · 
~ 
SATURDAXt SEPT. 2ND @12:30 vs. IDAHO
ijr , FREE rENNANT TO THE FIRST 500 FANS 
~r 
f~ SATURDAY, SEPT. 2ND @7:00 vs. #13 MISSOURI
I' 
L 
~: 
·r 
'II SuNDAY, SEPT. 3RD @2:00 vs. #6 SANTA CLARA 
' (' ' ( 
(• 
·r il , FREE SCHEDULE SHIRT TO THE FIRST 250 FANS~ 
:r ' ( (Home1\unInn) 
' t
•r 
~ 

:~ 
' 
' I' (. 
> I' 
'I
, _;' 
' t' 
:~~ 
.('
, (. 
> I' > I' 
:r • i > I' 
~ /; 
• i' 
• 
.·' 
•
• 

.. 

Friday, September 1, 2006 page 19
The Observer+ TODAY 
JOCULAR ALEC WHITE 
And it's good to know that 
the Tech football players 
have excellent r-esources 
for when they don't go pro 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 

CROISSANTWORLD 

HENRl ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRJON 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles. one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary wcrds. 
GRAWE 
j
(] [ I I 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
MIRGE 
j
I I [ [] 


TANNIF 
WHEN THE STORM HIT, THE C.HUI<C.H BEL-L-S IN THE

[ J I 

www.jumble.com SMAL-l-TOWN 
WEI<EF-­
tGRATUI I 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J ( J [] 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
ffilli: 

"(I I I I I I J" (II J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: SOUSE GOING PURIFY LEAVEN 
Yesterday's 

Answer: What an "organ" can produce ­A "GROAN" 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 31 Preschoolers? 64 His first #1 song was "All or
1 Car that made 32 Melted glace Nothing at All" its debut at the 35 Authenticate
1964 New York 65 Do florists' work World's Fair 38 See 19-and 66 Infinite 58-Across
8 Jeer 
67 Most uptight 42 Cowboy
15 Slothfulness 
68 Thirsts 43 Windy City 
16 Like a transportationhorseshoe 
org. DOWN 17 Reasons for 
1 Book of prayers 44 Terminal abbr.
soreness 2 Not picked up
18 What prisoners 45 Memo starter may yvear 3 It precedes an
47 Rarely read offering

19 38-Across is one messages 4 Sink pipe part 
21 Stir 51 Stitches over 5 Leaning 
22 Sounds to skip 54 Investment 6 Astronaut's digit
by options, for short 7 Tank top 
23 Guide 57 Ab _(from 8 Where 
27 Country singer 
day one) astrologicalon whom "Coal signs meet
Miner's 58 Type of Daughter'' is 19-Across that 9 Wheezy one based 38-Across is 
10 Crowd maker? 29 Noted bell tower 61 Comedian's 37 Vitamin amts. 46 Gone, now 56 Posts
11 Rock landmark 
site shtick 38 Construction 48 Literary wizard­

12 Computer 59 Choreographers'
piece shaped in-training
program, briefly concerns
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
like the last 49 Opposed13 Majors in acting 

letter of the 60 Anklebones 50 Bog14 Mormons, alphabet 61 Scoundrel
initially 39 Spotless 52 "Como ?" 20 Awaits a chiding 40 TV hookups 53 "Are we there 62 Vein contents
yet?," maybe 

~~,....~ 24 Word with field 41 First name in or guilt horror 55 Dior creation 63 Cup filler -+--+--f 25 Go slowly 
_;,....f_,;;,.f-=+~ 26 Wreck site For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
28 Thing to wring 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 30 Worthless bit crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. · 33 rule Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
34 Revolts 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 36 Back at sea solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name --------------------------------------------­
Address _________________________________________ _ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Chad Brannon, 26; Jeff Hardy, 28; Richard Gere, 56, Zack Ward, 35 
Happy Birthday: This can be a great year for you if you are quick to get the ball rolling. Stop contemplating what you should do and take action. You'll only have yourself to blame if you are still standing in the same place this time next year. Determine what you want and go after it. Your numbers are 7, 15, 22, 31, 39,48 
ARIES (March 21-April19): This is the perfect time to set your mind on what you want and go after it. You will be able to convince anyone you encounter to help you out. A creative project will tum out better than you anticipat-:d. ***** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Trouble is brewing, so deal with it before it gets out of hand. Your stubborn attitude will make matters worse, so leave your ego at home and be prepared to compromise. Don't take advice the wrong way. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be intuitive today, instinctively knowing when to make your move. A romantic connection will tum out to be an asset in more ways than one. This is not the time to sit back and let others take over.**** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may find yourself sitting in a rather precarious position if you have been overreacting to emotional matters at home. You may owe an apology. Don't put it off; the longer you ignore the problems, the worse matters will become. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be confident and do your thing today. You will be in the limelight and will attract someone who can make your life easier. Change your daily routine and you will feel rejuvenated. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take the initiative. Get involved at whatever level you can with something that interests you, and you can make a difference. Convince someone you enjoy doing things with to join you.*** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Everything will tum in your favor today if you present your ideas and do your own thing. Your professionalism will capture the interest of someone in a position to help you. Don't question your ideas. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't let jealousy or envy be your downfall today. Focus on what you can do, not what you can't. Get back to basics and what ~s required to deal with your own success. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will be riding a high crest, but don't let that fool you into overspending. Love relationships are looking good, so put time aside to be with loved ones. You will have the discipline and the knowledge to make headway. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Matters concerning money, legal issues or health must be dealt with quickly. Your intuition will not lead you astray. Your interest in others will be impressive and attnct someone who will help you out. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): There is plenty going on behind closed doors today. Keep your eyes open for any secretive action. Someone rna)' try to mislead you regarding his or her tme feelings. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Anything you can do to improve your work situation or change your position should be your intent. An opportunity is present and must be taken advantage of. Your unusual way of approaching a job or project will draw interest. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You are emotional, sensitive and intuitive. You are stubborn, stand up for your rights and you aren't afraid to follow your own path. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadl"ice.comfor fim. eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
• 0 • • • • -• ' ' • • • • • 
. . . 


Friday, September 1, 2006 page 20 
NO SOCCER 

Sunday showdowns 
Clark ready to take on perennial power Indiana on Sunday 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
After two difticult games in the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament last weekend, Notre Dame will have no time to relax this weekend as it takes on No. 8 Indiana and No. 25 Saint Louis in the Adidas/IU Credit Union Classic in Bloomington. 
This will be the fourth con­secutive season Notre Dame has participated in the Hoosiers' annual event, one of the most competitive early-sea­son tournaments in the nation. On nine separate occasions, the eventual NCAA champion has participated in the Classic. 
see INDIANA/page 18 


Photos by TIM SULLIVAN!The Observer Left, Irish junior Kurt Martin dribbles past Creighton midfielder Danny Minutillo during Notre Dame's 4-1 victory over the Bluejays Sunday. Right, Irish senior Jen Buczkowski scores the first goal in Notre Dame's 5-2 victory over Santa Clara Sept. 5, 2004. 
Women prepare for a battle of top-ranked teams against SCU 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame, ranked No. 1 in the Soccer Times Coaches Poll · after wins over Iowa State and 
Ole Miss last weekend, will face Santa Clara, ranked No. 1 in the Soccer Buzz poll, as part of the Inn at Saint Mary's Notre Dame Classic at 1 p.m. on Alumni Field Sunday. 
"Santa Clara is always a great rivalry," Notre Dame coach Randy Waldrum said. "It's a series that [Broncos head coachl Jerry Smith and myself have decided to contin­ue year in and year out. It's great not only for our two pro­grams, but for all of women's 
see BRONCOS/page 17 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Shamrock attracts top foes 
Squad set to host six-team Invitational at Joyce Center this weekend 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
No. 21 Notre Dame looks to improve its offensive game this weekend as it hosts the 12th annual Shamrock Invitational at the Joyce Center. 
The three-day tournament's. first serve is today at noon with No. 6 Santa Clara facing off against Valparaiso. The Irish play Valparaiso in their opener at 7 p.m. The two other teams in the tournament are No. 13 Missouri and Idaho. 
Notre Dame will play Idaho Saturday at 12:30 p.m. before a match against Missouri that will be broadcast live on College Sports Television Network at 7 p.m. The four­game home weekend con­cludes with the toughest test for the Irish-a 2 p.m. Sunday standoff against Santa Clara. 
"I think we're going into every match feeling confident that we have the ability to win," Notre Dame head coach Debbie Brown said. "It's chal­lenging, four matches in three days. We absolutely believe we 
see CSTV/page 18 


SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

MIAA Alumnae Meet 
" 

opens year for Belles 
Exhibition race kicks off Bauters'· second year as head coach 
By BECKI DORNER Sports Writer 
Before every race, acclaimed running coach Mike FaneIIi would give his runners the same piece of advice: "Run the first part with your intellect, the middle 
part with your person­ality and the last part with your heart." 
Saint Mary's looks to fol­low this 

same advice Bauters to piece together a successful fall sea­son, combining smart train­ing, camaraderie and dedica­tion to both the craft of run­ning and to each other. 
The runners begin their fall 2006 schedule Saturday when the Belles play host to the pre­MIAA Exhibition Alumnae Meet. 

Second-year head coach Jackie Bauters stressed that the exhibition will be "a good opportunity to see where the team is at and what we need to work on." 
"Hopefully it will be a good time for the team and I can get a better idea of the tal­ent," Bauters said. 
Indeed, the squad is rela­tively young and unproven, with nine freshmen after graduating three seniors last season. 
But the Belles do enjoy a solid core of experienced returning runners. Senior cap­tains Meaghan Herbst, Sara Otto and Katie White will guide the freshmen. The three have been consistent in the past and hope to usher in a new era for the program. 
Last season Otto finished first or second for the Belles in every single meet she entered, with her best time of 
20:07 clocked at the MIAA Jamboree. 
White's peak carne at the perfect time last season when she posted a career-best 24:45 
see BELLES/page 18 
en 
MLB-Nl 
NCAA FOOTBALL
FIBA 
MLB-Al
TENNIS 
MLB 
ii 
u.l 
C-) 
World Basketball 

Northwestern 21 
U.S. Open 
Yankees 6 
Championships 
Tigers 4 

z Obscure Pirate Freddy 
Miami (Ohio) 3 
The Red Sox trade 43­
year-old pitcher David
Sanchez leads the 
Maria Sharapova and
:3 
Mike Krzyzewski

National League with a 
The Wildcats win 

Wells to the Padres for 
Alex Rodriguez
Serena Williams 
emphasizes teamwork 
homers and leads New

.347 batting average 
their first game since the 
minor leaguer George
advance to the third 
York to the win. 

going into September. 
as coach of the U.S. 

death of coach Randy 
Kottaras.
round of play Thursday. 
== 

Walker.
team. 

en 
a..= 
page 16 
page 13 
page 12
page 15 
page 14
page 15 

--------~----·:~.. -~~------~~------~,-~~·· ,-.~---.~.--.-.----~----~.-~~.-,---.-------­
••• s. f • ,1 1 I o o I,' j I j 6 I I I I > • ' •• "I I \ , .. . "' jo I,, •. o' I ' .·• ,. ' \·I 
• I .. ' • ~ ' • .. I • ' ; 
' . 

l I 
·" •• t ; •
\ \ I 
.' ' 

' ' ' I I ' .. ·' t .t ''
' ' .. ' ' I 
' ' . ' •. I • ·,. ' 
' . •••• 

I •
.. ' .. 
I ' 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 1, 2006 
PHR 
Y'S 
cGEE 
FRIDAY, SEPT. BTH, 2006 
ROBERT .J. FISCHGRUND CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS ST. PATRICK•S COUNTY PARK 50651 Laurel Road, South Bend, Indiana 46637 Doors: 6:30pl'n • Concert": 7:30pna 
Ticket's are $25 and l'here is a $4 parking fee per vehicle TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT WWW.TTRRC.COM 


Irish remain underdog despite polls 
Hang up your "Herbstreit for President" T-shirt for just a minute. 
Scrap the latest Las Vegas lines. D o n ' t 
book a 
--~~~--~ flight to Arizona just yet. 
N o t r e Dame is still an underdog. 
Not in 
Mike Gilloon

the tradi­tional s e n s e . Sports Writer E v e n M a r k May's mother has the Irish at the top of her contender's list this season. 
Notre Dame is an under­dog because it must be one. 
Aside from his headset, Charlie Weis' best tactic against the Yellow Jackets will be making the Irish believe they aren't better than they really are. 
For the Irish to win their season opener Saturday night, they don't have to win with style. 
Brady Quinn doesn't have to be a Reisman finalist ­he just needs to avoid inter­
c~ptions. 
Tom Zbikowski doesn't need to knock anyone out in 49 seconds -he just. needs to make sure Calvin Johnson doesn't have any 49-yard touchdowns. 
Sam Young doesn't have to set a school record for pan­cakes -he just needs to give Darius Walker a little room to run. 
A win over Georgia Tech won't cause much celebra­tion. The big victory parties are reserved for Penn State in a week. 
The best way for the Irish to make headlines this Sunday is if they have read their headlines all summer long. 
The Irish beat Pittsburgh in last year's season opener because they weren't sure just how good they were. 
They fell behind big to Michigan State early in last year's home opener because they knew how good they could be -they just didn't play that way for three quar­ters. 
The talent­ Aside from his  his hands.  
and the home  headset, Charlie  The  Notre  
crowd -on Notre Dame's side last  Weis' best tactic against the Yellow  Dame sive must  defen­backs keep  
September  Jackets will be  Johnson  in  
against Spartans should have  making the Irish believe they aren't  front of them q.nd out of the end zone. If  
put the Irish  better than they  not-and the  
over But  the top. it didn't  really are.  Irish fall behind early ­ 
take  a  miracle  the self confi­ 
for  John  L.  dence  that  

Smith to deprive Charlie oozed out of every magazine Weis a win in his first game cover from Sports Illustrated at Notre Dame Stadium. to ESPN The Magazine will 
It took one player -Matt plummet. 
Trannon. A fourth-quarter come­
Apologies to quarterback back attempt in front of an Drew Stanton, but without electrified Bobby Dodd Trannon and his five recep­Stadium crowd and against tions for 135 yards and two a suddenly confident Tech touchdowns, squad isn't the Spartans the easiest
Ifyou haven't seen the

didn't have a way to start 
chance. picture ofthe Tech wide a season. 
Calvin receiver's hands Despite Johnson is that kickoff
smothering a football 

this year's is at 8 p.m. 
on the cover ofthe

M a t t on the road Trannon. Yellow Jackets media -under the If you moonlight in
guide, check it out.

haven't seen front of a 
the picture The guy could Southern of the Tech palm a Volvo. crowd filled 
wide receiv­er's hands smothering a football on the cover of the Yellow Jackets media guide, check it out. The guy could palm a Volvo. 
That's why this game might rest in with moon­
shine Notre Dame is expected to win. 
Despite that Calvin Johnson is a second-year professional playing in col­lege -Notre Dame is expected to win. 
Despite that Georgia Tech has beaten a ranked team each season since 1995 ­Notre Dame is expected to win. 
The Irish are expected to do much more than beat Georgia Tech in 2006. 
But the only way Notre Dame can meet those expec­tations is to ignore them. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd. edu 

game hype 

Chan Gailey Yellow Jackets head coach 
"It's a great opportunity to go out there and show what type of defense we 
have.,, 

Bill Lewis Irish defensive backs coach 
"We have to play close to a perfect game and they are going to be a great team. ,, '"All the lead up is nothing. The game is what is important., 

KaMichael Hall Yellow Jackets linebacker 
'1t's not about me . ... This is so much more important than that. This is about Notre Dame playing their opening football game.,, 

Tashard Choice Yellow Jackets running back 

' ' • ' ' '
I • . ' ' , , , ' 
I I ; I I I .I 
I I I I
' 
t ' 
Friday, September 1, 2006 

The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
McKnight and day 
After being injured, Rhema McKnight returns to the field hoping to make an impact in 2006 
By BOB GRIFFIN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame wide re.eeiver 
Rhema McKnight stood. pnxious­
ly on the sideline' crutches 
tugged und~_). his· shoulder pad­
free No. ))·1e'f'sey, and watched 
the Iri~lt-offense explode under 
firsf year head coach Charlie 
Weis -his own leg preventing 
him from being part of the 
process. 
McKnight witnessed teammate 
Maurice Stovall go from a junior 
with 21 catches for 313 yards to 
a third round NFL draft pick. He 
saw his replacement, Jeff 
Samardzija, transform himself 
from an unknown receiver to a 
national celebrity. 
He observed his battery mate, quarterback Brady Quinn, pick apart opposing offenses as if they were Pop Warner squads, and tight end Anthony Fasano draw safeties away from the sideline routes he used to run with ease. 
And while he watched his teammates fmd success, his own place on the sidelines was a reminder of how close he came to being a part of it. McKnight came into 2005 with high expec­tations after a strong junior sea­son (42 catches, 610 yards, 3 touchdowns), but saw it fade away with one play in Ann Arbor. 
But instead of viewing that ill­fated crossing pattern as a hin­drance, he sees it as a cross­roads. 
Because while McKnight spent all but two games of last season unable to play, he now has a chance to re-establish himself on perhaps the most powerful offense in the country -a unit that undoubtedly developed that reputation without him. 
Patiently waiting 
McKnight's season didn't end when he was put on the shelf following the Michigan game on Sept. 10. Instead of catching passes, McKnight's responsibili­ties became centered on rehab­bing his knee and being a source of ofT-field support for his team­mates. 
It was not the ideal situation for a player who might have been an NFL draft pick with a full, productive season -a likely scenario given McKnight's talent and Notre Dame's success in 2005. However, it was a role the fifth-year senior accepted. 
But with a full year of anticipa­tion for the start of the 2006 sea­son and his subsequent return to college football -McKnight could not be more prepared. 
"I always said it would be nice to have two years in this offense and look what I got," McKnight said after practice Tuesday. "So I'm very thankful I'm back ... and I'm going to try to take advantage of it." 
McKnight trusts his coaches when they tell him he looks bet­ter now than he did in the past, despite having concerns last year regarding his injury and the timetable for his full recovery. . 
But maybe even more impor­tantly, McKnight trusts the men­tal strides he made last season when he was unable to perform physically. Studying game film is one thing, but being forced to watch plays develop from the sideline left McKnight with a new perspective on reading defenses. 
"I've had the opportunity to sit back on the sidelines, just watch other defenses, see how they rotate, watch corners ... I've been able to capitalize on the opportunity just to sit around and watch," McKnight said. 
And while McKnight stored the information·for a time when he would return to the field, he also shared it with his teammates ­notably Samardzija and Stovall -who could benefit from his insight. 
"Any time you have a veteran like that on the sidelines, unfor­tunately on the sidelines, he adds to what you see," Samardzija said after practice Tuesday. "He sees things that you can't." 
McKnight 

advice and worked with it," McKnight said. "He made the best of an unfortunate situation and look where he's at now." 
Finding his own role 
Regardless of his status as one of Notre Dame's most talented offensive players, he is still faced with a glaring reality -having not played during the Irish resurgence, McKnight is in the rare position of having to form his own iden­tity as a fifth­

position." Glendale, Ariz. in its periphery. 
It's unlikely that McKnight will So while McKnight begins his have an identical role to Stovall's own individual quest to return to from last season. The two his level of on-field production, receivers have different builds and potentially surpass it, Notre and different skills. Stovall was a Dame will be faced with the big receiver (6-foot-5, 220 same challenge. pounds) who was a jump ball Last year's 9-3 finish, and loss threat and a goal line mismatch. to Ohio State in the Fiesta Bowl, McKnight is a smaller, elusive was a start -a stepping stone wide out (6-foot-2, 212 pounds). for what could happen if Notre 
But Gailey feels that there is Dame's potential manifests itself still some benefit to understand­in victories during the 2006 sea­ing Stovall's role to get a better son. handle on McKnight Saturday. And if the Irish do outperform 
"I don't think they'll adjust last season's team, then and only everything they do with that then, can people begin to sit position .... But him being a back and speculate about the great athlete, they'll be able to effect McKnight had on the plug him in there," he said. process. When this happens, he 
can become the story -an inte­The bigger picture gral part of the 2006 team that 
But when the clock hits 8 p.m. was missing one year earlier. on Saturday and the Irish begin But as of now, McKnight just a season where many expect wants to get back to playing them to contend for a BCS football. National Championship, the "Sitting back and watching story will not be Rhema every game hurt, but it is what it McKnight. The focus will be on is," McKnight said. Notre Dame, of which McKnight Come Saturday, however, there is just a small part. _ will be no more watching from 
There will be no sideline the sidelines. reports of McKnight's fight to get When McKnight puts on his back on the field. Nor will there game jersey, this time covering be talk of how a kid from his shoulder pads -the only Inglewood, Calif. -a town bet­thing the senior receiver and ter known for being referenced Notre Dame fans will wait for is by The Game than producing No. 5's first six points since last college football players -September. emerged to become one of the integral parts of a mbsion that Contact Bob Griffin at leaves South Bend with rgriffi3@nd.edu 
by the numbers 
Notre Dame players to finish in the top 5 of the Heisman balloting, including Brady Quinn in 2005. 
27 

6 
Georgia Tech players to finish in the top 10 of Heisman balloting. Quarterback Joe Hamilton was the last Yellow Jacket finalist, coming in 
second in 1999. 

Years Bill lewis, Notre Dame's current defensive backs coach, was Georgia Tech's head coach. Only one coach of the modern era 
3 

has had ashorter term with the Yellow Jackets than lewis. 
1 Games won by lewis' 1994 Georgia Tech team -a win in Week 2 against Western Carolina. 
Meetings between Georgia Tech and Notre Dame in the series' his­tory. 
32 

7 
Wins Georgia Tech has had in each of the four years since Chan Gailey became head coach in 2002. 
...... 
Sam ard zija would have been the third receiver, behind McKnight and Stovall, and had fewer opportunities to showcase his abilities. 

But instead of harboring bad feelings for his own misfortune, McKnight encouraged Samardzija and gave him advice throughout the season. This year, the two have been working on their rhythm since spring practice began. 
"Any time I had an opportunity to say, 'hey you know look out for this, watch out for that,' I'm pretty sure [Samardzija] took the 
a n d "I've had the opportunity year senior. 
Samardzija It's well
to sit back on the sidelines, 
share a documented 
unique rela­just watch other defenses, that Quinn 
tionship. It's see how 'they rotate, watch a n d unlikely the Samardzij a
corners ... I've been able to
Cubs prospect have one of
capitalize on the
would have the top rap­compiled the opportunity just to sit ports in the same ~tatis­country as a
around and watch.··
tics if his quarterback­
teammate receiver tan­were healthy Rhema McKnight dem. The two last season. Irish receiver hooked up for 
·15 of Quinn's 32 touch­downs last year. 
Luckily, though, there is an open spot ·opposite Samardzija that was vacated when Stovall (and his 11 touchdowns) gradu­ated in May. 
And given McKnight's athleti­cism and intelligence -he grad­uated earlier this year with degrees in psychology and com­puter applications -it shouldn't take long before Quinn and McKnight find the chemistry that was visible before his injury. 
When that happens, the Irish offense will have another weapon in its already varied 

arsenal. McKnight is one of. the most talented players on the Notre Dame roster, made evi­dent by his numbers prior to Weis' arrival in South Bend (36 games, 98 receptions, 1,301 yards and six touchdowns) and in his short 2005 season. 
Georgia Tech head coach Chan Gailey understands this· reality and studied old film of McKnight in order to prepare for Saturday's game. He also viewed tapes from last season in order to anticipate how McKnight might be used. 
"What you have to do is go and look at that position last year and see how that position was used," Cailey said in a telecon­fer('nee Tuesday. "Then you go back to prior tape and see how that person can adapt to that 
' 1
. ' ' 

....
,I ol •,' ' ~ 
. ' I 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 1, 2006 


Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 0-0 AP: 2 Coaches: 3(tied) 


Charlie Weis 2nd season at Notre Dame career record: 9-3 at Notre Dame: 9-3 

Charlie Weis against head coach Georgia Tech: 0-0 
2006 Schedule 
Sept. 2 at Georgia Tech Sept. 9 PENN STATE 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
1  D.J. Hord  WR  6-1  192  so  
2  Darrin Walls  DB  6-1  175  FR  
3  Darius Walker  RB  5-11  208  JR  
4  Demetrius Jones  QB  6-4  202  FR  
5  Rhema McKnight  WR  6-1  212  SR  
6  Ray Herring  DB  6-0.  189  so  
7  Crai~ Cardillo  K  6-0  170  SR  
8  Raes on McNeil  DB  6-0  175  FR  
9  Tom Zbikowski  DB  5-11  203  SR  
10  Brady Quinn  QB  6-4  227  SR  
11  David Grimes  WR  6-0  170  so  
12  Zach Frazer  QB  6-4  215  FR  
13  Evan Sharpley  QB  6-2  207  so  
14  Bob~ Renkes  K  6-0  195  SR  
15  Leo  errine  DB  6-0  186  JR  
17  Geoffrey Price  p  6-3  186  SR  
17  Dan Gorski  QB  6-3  196  so  
18  Chinedum Ndukwe  DB  6-2  219  SR  
19  George West  WR  5-8  179  FR  
20  Terrail Lambert  DB  5-11  188  JR  
21  Barry Gallup Jr.  WR  5-11  175  FR  
22  Ambrose Wooden  CB  5-11  197  SR  
23  Chase Anastasio  WR  6-2  203  SR  
23  W. David Williams  DB  5-10  170  JR  
24  Brandon Erickson  WR  6-0  178  JR  
25  Munir Prince  RB  5-10  175  FR  
26  Wade lams  DB  5-9  188  JR  
26  Travis Thomas  RB  6-0  215  SR  
27  David Bruton  DB  6-2  187  so  
27  John Lyons  RB  6-1  205  SR  
28  Kyle McCarthy  DB  6-0  189  so  
29  jashaad Gaines  DB  6-0  195  FR  
29  Jake Richardsville  WR  6-0  180  so  
30  Mike Richardson  DB  5-11  193  SR  
31  Sergio Brown  DB  6-1  184  FR  
32  Luke Schmidt  RB  6-3  230  FR  
33  Nate Whitaker  K  5-9  165  FR  
34  james Aldridge  RB  6-0  209  FR  
35  Ashley McConnell  RB  6-0  247  SR  
35  Tim Kenney  DB  6-0  180  SR  
36  DexCure  RB  6-1  215  FR  
37  Junior Jabbie  RB  5-11  190  JR  
38  Nick Possley  WR  6-1  183  JR  
39  Ryan Burkhart  K  5-11  185  FR  
39  Kevin Brooks  TE  6-2  230  FR  

40 Maurice Crum, Jr. LB 6-0 220 JR 
LLI

41 Scott Smith LB 6-3 234 so 42 Kevin Washington LB 6-1 231 so 
:E 

42 David Costanzo WR 5-9 170 so 
<

43 Eric Maust p 6-1 180 FR 43 Mike Anello DB 5-10 180 so 
c 44 Asaph Schwapp RB 6-0 250 so 45 Kris Patterson WR 5-11 174 so 
LLI 

45 Carl Gioia K 5-10 183 SR 
c::: 

46 Michael Planalp TE 6-4 230 so 
.... 

46 Kyle Charters LB 5-11 195 JR 
0

47 Mitchell Thomas LB 6-3 240 SR 48 Steve Quinn LB 6-2 220 JR 
z 49 Matt Augustyn FB 6-3 220 SR 49 Toryan Smith LB 6-0 230 FR 50 Dan Santucci OL 6-4 290 SR 51 Dan Wenger OL 6-4 285 FR 52 Joe Brockin~ton LB 6-1 212 SR 53 Morrice Ric ardson LB 6-2 228 FR 54 Anthony Vemaglia DB 6-3 221 JR 55 Eric Olsen OL 6-4 290 FR 56 Nick Burseti Lll 6-4 238 SR 57 Dwight Stephenson DL 6-2 252 SR 59 Chris Steward OL 6-5 340 FR 60 Casey Cullen DL 6-1 238 SR 61 J.J. Jansen LS 6-3 242 JR 63 Jeff Tisak OL 6-3 305 so 64 Dan Chervanick DL 6-1 259 SR 66 Derek Landri DL 6-3 263 SR 68 ~an Harris OL 6-5 288 SR 69 eil Kennedy DL 5-11 260 JR 71 Bartley Webb OL 6-7 290 FR 72 Paul Duncan OL 6-7 292 so 73 Matt Carufel OL 6-5 288 FR 74 Sam Young OL 6-7 292 FR 75 Chris Frome DL 6-5 268 SR 76 Bob Morton OL 6-4 292 SR 77 Michael Turkovich OL 6-6 290 so 78 John Sullivan OL 6-4 298 SR 79 Brian Mattes OL 6-6 285 SR 80 Richard Jackson WR 6-3 200 FR 81 Darrin Bragg WR 6-1 192 JR 82 Robby Parris WR 6-4 185 FR 83 Jeff Samardzija WR 6-5 216 SR 84 Will Yeatman TE 6-6 250 FR 86 Mike Talerico TE 6-5 245 JR 87 Marcus Freeman TE 6-3 245 SR 88· Konrad Reuland TE 6-6 239 FR 89 John Carlson TE 6-5 255 SR 90 John Ryan DL 6-5 240 FR 91 Travis Leitko DL 6-7 270 SR 92 Derrell Hand DL 6-3 301 so 93 Paddy Mullen DL 6-5 265 FR 94 Justin Brown DL 6-3 247 JR 95 Victor Abiamiri DL 6-4 260 SR % Pat Kuntz DL 6-2 267 so 97 Kallen Wade DL 6-5 220 FR 98 Trevor Laws DL 6-1 293 SR 99 Ronald Talley DL 6-4 261 JR 




Charlie Weis has mixed experience with a long layoff. To start the 2005 season, Notre Dame tore through the Pittsburgh defense. But Notre Dame struggled mightily against  Brady Quinn complet­ed 64.6 percent of his passes for 3,919 yards and 32 touchdowns -the best year in history for an Irish quarterback. He also managed to  Darius Walker doesn't have breakaway speed but does have impeccable visiOn. His successes include a 186-yard per­formance against Stanford in 2005 and 90 yards on  Jeff Samardzija was a consensus AU-American in 2005 with 15 touchdown receptions, and Rhema McKnight led the team in receptions and yards the previous two seasons.  
Ohio State in the Fiesta Bowl, as the defense couldn't do the job against the speedy Buckeyes.  escape the pass rush, being sacked just 10 times, and threw just seven picks in 2005.  just 16 carries against a top-1 0 OSU defense. Walker will have Asaph Schwapp blocking for him.  McKnight's career average of 13.3 yards per catch is impressive, and Samardzija's is even better.  
Chan Gailey has never won more than seven games in a season at Georgia Tech but has a penchant for beating top teams early in the season, including a 23-14 road win over No. 15 Auburn in the 2005 season opener and a 14-10 win over Miami in late November.  Georgia ·Tech's Reggie Ball is an inconsistent passer, completing less than 50 percent of his career passes and throw­ing four more intercep­tions (41) than touch­downs (37). But his ability to run has led to 1,097 yards and nine scores for the Yellow Jackets.  The Yellow Jackets return all four starters on the defensive line, a unit which held opponents to 103 yards per game on the ground in 2005. Third­year starting linebacker KaMichael Hall is the intimidating force behind the trenches with 121 career tackles.  The Yellow jackets have one returning starter in the secondary, and he is a good one. All-America candidate Kenny Scott will be responsible for shutting down Samardzija, but the three remaining members of the secondary have combined for two career starts.  
Despite the Irish per­formance in the Fiesta Bowl, Gailey said Weis ts one of the best coaches at finding his team's compar­ative advantage and exploiting it. Gailey's teams simply haven't had that success, losing at least one game per year by three touchdowns or more.  Both signalcallers have started since they were true freshmen, but Quinn is a pre-season favorite for the Heisman Trophy for a reason. The Dublin, Ohio, product is one of the nation's most effec­tive quarterbacks at reading defenses and checking off receivers.  
 The dual threats of Samardzija and McKnight for the Irish may equal the nations most feared and productive combination of receivers. Scott is an excellent eor­nerback, buthe.is only.om~ member of a four..tnan unit.through the air .. .....tr  

Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
NOTRE DAME

NOTRE DAME 
OFFENSE 

TAILBACK Walker 
(T. Thomas) Prince FULLBACK Ql'ARTERBACK 
~~~~ 
RIGHT GUARD 
Morton Mattes 
RIGHT TACKLE 
Young ...--...........~, 
WIDE RECEIVER 
McKnight Anastasio West 
LF.Pf TACKLE Harris · 
Turkovich 
Sept. 16 Sept. 23 Sept. 30 Oct. 7 Oct. 21 Oct. 28 Nov. 4 Nov.11 Nov. 18 Nov. 25 
-

MICHIGAN atMSU PURDUE STANFORD UCLA at Navy UNC 
. 

at Air Force ARMY at USC 
OtJocan 
Wri>f. 
RF.CEIVF.R 
Sanafdzija Grimes 
GEORGIA TECH-~ . DEFENSE · .... 


COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 



There isn't a more imposing receiver in college Notre· Dame has been waiting for this game football than Calvin Johnson. And at the end of since Jan. 2 and it will not come out flat. The the Fiesta Bowl, there didn't look like a more only thing that stops the Irish from hanging 50 beaten defense than Notre Dame's. But this is a on Georgia Tech will be head coach Charlie
Irish 

new year and the Irish have too much to lose to Weis' decision to control the clock after a 35­allow the AU-American to spoil a championship point first half. Even so, Notre Dame \\ill muster season before it begins. Brady Quinn keeps the a tocuhdown and field goal in the second half
experts 

ball moving as 2006 kicks off with an efficient and the Yellow Jackets will score a garbage TD pcrforn1ance. late to make the game appear closer. 
ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 28 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 45 Georgia Tech 13 Georgia Tech 24 
Mike Gllloon 

Editor in Chief 
Bob Griffin 
AME 

-------------......-......-....~~---......~--....~..-.--.._...~---....-o:----:--~--------;-,;-;---.-r·,-,-.---­
. ·•.. ·, ·. ' . . 
' t :

' .' ... ..
', •, I, ., t

' ' ' -' Friday, September 1, 2006 page 5 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 

-

Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets 
Record: 0-0 AP: NR Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets Coaches: NR 
• 


Chan Gailey 5th season at Georgia Tech career record: 52-33 at GT: 28-22 


against Notre Chan Gailey Dame: 0-0 head coach 
GEORGIATECH 2006 Schedule  
Sept. 2 NOTRE DAME Sept. 9 SAMFORD Sept. 16 TROY Sept. 21 VIRGINIA Sept. 30. at Virginia Tech ~"··· Oct. 7 MARYLAND Oct. 21 afOitmson Oct. 28 ..·.·. u4 ;,;E~ MIAMI -.;;tat NC St. Nov. 4 Nov•. 11 atUNC Nov. 18 DUKE Nov. 25 at Georgia  

No. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 12 13 14 15 17 18 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 
31 32 32 34

JACKETS RUSHING JACKETS PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
35 

Notre Dame returns five linemen with at least six career starts, with Victor Abiamiri a skilled left end and Landri a solid force against the run on the inside. The Irish front  Opponents scorched the Irish pass defense in 2005, gaining 264.6 yards per game in the air. Tom Zbikowski had five inter­ceptions last season but often was fooled by play­ Notre Dame replaces D.J. Fitzpatrick in all three kicking categories . Geofl' Price had a strong camp but only ha..'i punted tWice in his career. Carl Gioia has a low trajectory on  Weis is undefeated in official road contests, win­ning all six road games in 2005. The Irish hold a 26-5-1 series advantage over Georgia Tech, but lost the  
four held five of its 12 opponents in 2005 to less than 110 yards rushing.  action fakes, while Ambrose Wooden and Mike Jiichardson are serious question..c; at comer.  field goals, and Bobby Henkes has made five appearances as a kickoff speeialist.  last contest between the two squads -the 1999 Gator Bowl in Jacksonville, Fla.  
Tashard Choice studied under Oklahoma standout tailback Adrian Peterson for a year before Choice transferred to Georgia Tech. Choice averaged 4.4 yards on 114 carries in 2005 as the backup to P.J. Daniels. The other threat is Reggie Ball, a prolific rushing quarterback.  Calvin Johnson has made his fair share of out­standing catches, but he has been wildly inconsis­tent, catching four or less passes eight times in 2005, while gaining more than 100 yards in three of the team's other four games. Meanhile, James Johnson has just two career starts.  Junior Travis Bell has never missed an extra point for Georgia Tech and is 19­for-22 on field goals shorter than 40 yards. Bell's 136 career points place him eighth on the Yellow Jackets' all-time lli.i., and he likely will clinib to third by the end of the season.  In 1976, Georgia Tech beat Notre Dame without throwing a pass. Now the Yellow Jackets have beaten a ranked team in each of the past 11-season". Calvin Johnson missed out on All-American status because of Samardzija in 2005 and could fmd sweet revenge.  
Georgia Tech must be able to solidify a run game early to create windows of . tuni~~ and e t Jofh the · ·h · et '·r· . t  IfJohnson shows t.!p, his athletic ability will be enough mallow the Yellow Jackets to tear-,through the Iri$h ~econdary. .,,.....,;;,l4• Netther.. Woode:n neB Hichardson have the shifti­ness to <;Qtmtet Jilnson's size and bod~-trol while adjusting . ball in mid-air.  Georgia Tech's superior experience in special team'S''t~euld lead the Yellow Jackets having '! short field much of t)l,e night. ·· .... '· · Perhaps opl'Y;jff the Irish -return•nt,;lerform well will this h'iJ!t"ence be mitigated inffie game.  Notre Dame's attention to detail ­from top down -is perhaps the greatest edge the Irish \\'i_ll have. Quinn's stellar instincts result from his abili_ty to see the little things quickly, and Walker has a knack for getting just past the first down marker on third-down runs.  


Roster 

Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 
Reggie Ball QB 5-11 195 SR 
Kenny Scott COB 6-2 185 SR 
Rashaun Grant RB 5-10 200 JR 
Jamal Lewis DB 6-0 190 JR 
Greg Smith WR 6-3 195 so 
Pat Clark DB 5-11 185 JR 
Tony Clark DB 6-1 190 so 
Demaryius Thomas WR 6-3 215 FR 
Eric Oetter WR 5-10 180 so 
Martin Frierson WR 6-2 185 so 
Kyle Manley QB 6-2 210 JR 
Anthony Barnes LB 6-3 230 FR 
Tyler Jones K 5-8 185 JR 
Taylor Bennett QR 6-3 215 JR 
Byron Ingram QB 6-5 190 FR 
Correy Earls WR 6-0 185 FR 
Matt Braman LB 6-3 232 0 
Jonathan Gamer QB 6-4 210 so 
Jarnaal E\•ans RB 5-8 191 FR 
Calvin johnson WR 6-5 235 jR 
Tashard Choice RB 6-1 205 SR 
Djay Jones DB 6-1 200 JR 
Lcourence Marius DB 5-11 175 FR 
jasper DeRon DB 6-1 195 FR 
Dominique Reese WR/DB 5-11 175 FR 
Loyall Gause RB 5-9 210 JR 
Brian James K 5-10 185 so 
Sam Williams DB 5-11 200 SR 
James Liipfert LB 6-0 230 JR 
Mahorned Yahiaoui K 5-11 215 so 
Jason Davis R.B 5-10 195 so 
Jahi Word-Daniels DB 6-0 180 so 
Avery Roberson DB 6-2 200 SR 
KaMichael Hall LB 6-0 225 SR 
Joe Gaston DB 5-11 195 SR 
Quincy Kelly LB 6-0 225 FR 
Durant Brooks 6-0 198 SR
p 

Mike Cox RB 6-1 245 JR Philip Wheeler LB 6-2 225 SR Adamm Oliver DL 6-4 265 SR Taalib Tucker LB 6-1 238 so Tyler Barnett DB 5-10 180 JR Matt Kamp RB 5-11 230 so Jake Blackwood DB 6-1 182 so Michael Matthews TE 6-4 270 SR Trevor Bay RB 6-0 230 FR Carter Scurry LB 6-0 225 so Bret White LS 5-11 240 jR Zach Ware LS 6-0 215 so Travis Chambers LB 5-11 232 JR 
A.J. Smith OL 6-7 280 JR Sedric Griffin LB 5-11 220 FR David Brown DT 6-3 260 JR Osahon Tongo LB 6-3 225 FR Shane Bowen LB 6-1 215 FR Gary Guyton LB 6-2 230 JR David Sanborn LB 6-1 222 SR Kevin Tuminello OL 6-4 285 SR Matt Rhodes OL 6-3 275 SR Jacob Lonowski OL 6-5 290 JR Marcus Harris DL 6-1 270 SR Andrew Gardner OL 6-6 290 JR Andrew Follmer DL 6-0 292 JR Will Miller OL 6-5 290 so Mansield Wrotto OL 6-3 310 SR Alex Paquette DL 6-2 245 so Cord Howard OL 6-05 300 so Nate McManus OL 6-3 295 JR TreyDunmon OL 6-4 285 so Jason Hill OL 6-4 280 so Dan Voss OL 6-4 290 so LeShawn Newberry OL 6-0 320 SR George Cooper TE 6-5 260 SR Xavier McGuire WR 6-4 215 SR Andrew Smith WR 5-11 195 JR Colin Peek TE 6-6 260 so Austin barrick TE 6-3 240 FR Wayne Riles TE 6-4 252 SR Travis Bell K 6-0 210 SR -­Chris Dunlap WR 5-11 200 SR James Johnson WR 6-0 2190 JR Darrell Robertson DL 6-5 240 JR Brad Sellers DL 6-2 265 so Travis Rogers DL 6-2 242 SR Michael johnson DL 6-7 240 so Elris Anyaibe DL 6-3 264 JR Darryl Richard DL 6-4 285 JR joeAnoai DL 6-3 280 SR Robert Hall DL 6-3 225 FR Ben Anderson DL 6-2 265 FR Vance Walker DL 6-2 260 so 
Irish experts 
-


Notre Dame will pick apart the three inexperi­enced starters in the Georgia Tech secondary and put up a big number on the Yellow Jackets. Expect Quinn to throw 15-to-20 passes in the flfSt half as the Irish use the passing game to set up a Darius Walker-led rushing attack that will eat up the cloek once Notre Dame takes a com­manding lead. Georgia Tech will score some, but 
not nearly enough. 

ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 52 Georgia Tech 21 Kate Gales 
Associate Sports Editor 
I ' I I • 
I I 
' I t · 
37 38 39 
40 
41 42 
z 
44 
45
0 
46
.... 
47
:::tJ 
48 
m 
c 
49 50 
50
)> 
., 
51 3: 52 
53 54 55 56 
[>7 
58 59 
60 
61 62 
G') 
m 
63
0 
64
:::tJ 
65
G) 
66
-
)> 
68 69 
.... 
71 
m 
73 
n 74 
75 77 78 80 81 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 
:::1: 

It will be a sweet victory for the Irish, who roll past a strong defense in the perfect warm-up for the Big Ten trifecta up next. McKnight and Samardizja shine, Walker's draws are deadly and Quinn is rarely off-tar­get. Notre Dame's defense is a surprising strength and shows off a suffocating pass rush. The Yellow Jackets give it their best, but the Irish dominate the line of scrimmage. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 48 Georgia Tech 14 

! 
l. 
page 6 Friday, September 1, 2006
The Observer• IRISH INSIDER 
Sizing up the I_rish and the Jackets 

GEORGIA TECH 

BACKFIELD 
Reggie Ball has rushed for nearly 1,097 yards in his career, scrambling around defensive ends and slic­ing through lineback­ers. 
If Notre Dame's cor­ners are able to cover the two Johnsons well, Ball will' try to make the most of broken plays by using his speed and shiftiness with the ball tucked in his arm. 
His main cohort in the backfield will be Tashard Choice, who is taking over in a start­ing role for the Yellow 
I 
Jackets. Choice aver­aged 4.4 yards per carr in limited action last season. 
'i 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED 
BUYING & TRADING 
ALL SEASONS 
ALL GAMES & LOCATIONS 
18 YEARS CONFIDENTIAL SERVICE 
CASH PAID TODAY 
Preferred Tickets 234-5650 
~ ' ' 
.. I . 
, 1 . ,t • • . . 



NOTRE DAME 
RUN DEFENSE 
The Notre Dame's linebackers were strong against the run last season, but had trouble in pass cover­age and against dual­threat quarterbacks, including Michigan State's Drew Stanton. 
With junior Maurice Crum the only return­ing starter, it remains to be seen whether new starters Travis Thomas and Mitchell Thomas bring enough of an upgrade in speed to mitigate the unit's lack of experi­ence. 
Even if they can keep up with Ball and Choice, it's no guar­antee they can tackle them. 
• I • f

.., ' .-"· •.... 
Friday, September 1, 2006 page 7 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Johnson's big play ability worries Irish 
Size, strenghth, speed zvill test vulnerable secondary in opener 
By KEN FOWLER 

Sports Ediror 
He's bigger, he's stron~er and he's got better _pan ds than almost anyoneAfi~college foot­ball. Other than that, Georgia Tech junior Calvin Johnson is just a normal receiver. 
The 6-foot-5, 235-pound wide receiver was a second­team All-American in 2005 with 54 receptions for 888 yards. After just two years at Georgia Tech, Johnson is in the school's all-time top-10 in career receptions (1 03), yards {1,725) and touchdown catches (13). 
Notre Dame defensive backs coach Bill Lewis thinks Johnson is just as good as advertised. 
"When you read the com­ments that the coaches there in the ACC make about him ... he lives up to everything that's been said," Lewis said after Wednesday's practice. "He's among the best receivers in college football." 
Lewis said Johnson's combi­nation of size and strength ­along with his jumping ability 
is something usually reserved for the NFL. 
"He's got a 45-inch vertical jump. You put that on top of a 6-foot-4, 6-foot-5 guy -that's what makes him play so big," Lewis said. "You could be in perfect position. You could be in perfect position with two people. And he'll go up and out-jump two people for the ball because he's that kincl ol' a(hlete." 
But wait, thor~"S more. 

"HP '3 got unbelievable hands," Lewis said. "He makes some catches that are circus 
Johnson was held to le'-" than five receptions (It"' vlght occasions last f;:~ 11. • nat alone, however......sn t always a bad th'"'6 wr Georgia Tech. 
The Yellow Jackets lost 17-14 to North Carolina State last year when Johnson set person­al records with 10 catches for 130 yards. His five catches and 108 yards also went to waste in 
catches. So you look at him and you say, 'This guy lacks noth­ing as far as being a great receiver.'"  ..He makes some catches that are circus catches. So you look at him and you say, 'This guy lacks nothing as  a 27-17 Joss to Virginia. Still, Johnson's sheer athletic ability scares opposing second­aries.  
For Lewis' defensive unit that is trying to  far as being a great',,recewer.  Irish corner­back Mike Richardson said  
demonstrate it is  one  factor that  
better than the  Bill Lewis  could  mitigate  
264.8  passing  Irish defensive backs coach  Johnson's ability  
yards per game  would  be  the  
given up a  sea- receivers  the  
son ago and the  Notre  Dame  

unit's 617 yards surrendered defense faces in practice every to Ohio State in the Fiesta day. Bowl, Johnson creates quite After Wednesday's practice, the task. Richardson compared Johnson 
"I think we have an awful lot to former Irish wide-out to prove, Lewis said. Maurice Stovall and senior All­"[Johnson] will be one of the American Jeff Samardzija. toughest physical receivers we "They're similar receivers ­will see all year." big, physical guys," Richardson 
Lewis didn't name the other said of Johnson and Stovall. receivers in that class. "It's helpful having guys like Inconsistent? that -and Jeff-to practice 
Although unlike most against every day." receivers in many ways, While Samardzija said he Johnson may have a downside. hasn't seen much of Johnson 
His 2005 season earned him because he doesn't want to be national honors, but he was distracted from the opposing often criticized for being incon­defense, another Irish wide sistent. receiver -Rhema McKnight ­

-

said he thinks highly of off-season and heading into Johnson. game week, the defense is 
"He's just a big guy, a big ready." physical guy, [who] goes up If it's not, Johnson will make and gets the ball," McKnight Notre Dame pay. said after Tuesday's practice. "Hopefully throughout the Contact Ken Fowler at -­work we've done during the kfowler1@nd.edu 

ND-GT series history is rich in tradition 
Notre Dame plays Michigan. as two of college football's most titans within the college game. march on the university. 
By KATE GALES 
And while Notre Dame has storied powerhouses. "One of the reasons [this "Any game against Georgia
Associate Sports Editor 
dominated Georgia Tech in the Looking back, Notre Dame series] is significant is because Tech was particularly charged past, possessing a 26-5-1 wasn't a world-renowned uni­Georgia Tech was such a huge with all this extra meaning," 
When the nation's great col­record, the rivalry extends well versity in the early 20th century. power in college football from Sperber said, noting that the lege football rivalries are dis­beyond who wins on Saturday. But it took its sports seriously. fairly early on," said Professor staunchly anti-Catholic Klan cussed, the Notre Dame-Georgia First of all, the Notre Dame­"Out of that athletic culture John Soares, who teaches a was based in Atlanta. Tech series is seldom men­Georgia Tech series gave college came good football teams -course in American sports histo­But all of this happened before tioned. football one of its greatest sto­before Rockne [was a coach] ry at Notre Dame. "One factor is today's students were born. The 
It doesn't have glamour and ries -Rudy. It also saw a game and when Rockne was a player," that Notre Dame obviously has college-aged Irish fans making prestige that Notre Dame-USC where the Yellow Jackets won said Murray Sperber, author of its strong history in football, and the trek from South Bend to possesses. The Yellow Jackets without completing a pass. It "Shake Down the Thunder: The Georgia Tech has it as well." Atlanta this weekend might not do not have the same signifi­witnessed the rededication of Creation of Notre Dame Georgia Tech hired only its appreciate the strong academic cance in Notre Dame history as Notre Dame Stadium in 1997 Football." fourth football coach in 1967. tradition of Georgia Tech. the Navy Midshipmen. And decades after Knute Rockne The social culture surround­Two of its previous coaches Perhaps their strongest there is little emphasis on all­walked the sidelines. ing the fledgling university, how­were John Heisman, for whom Georgia Tech memories come time winning percentages, a And it's an important piece of ever, was less conducive to its the sport's most prestigious from the movie "Rudy." The cli­title always at stake when the American social history, as well success. It was "an era with award was named, and Bobby matic scene is set at the 1975 
tremendous amounts of preju­Dodd, for whom college foot­Notre Dame-Georgia Tech dice" against Catholics, Sperber ball's Coach of the Year award is game, a 24-3 win where Daniel said. named. Ruettiger recorded a sack in the 
In the early twentieth century, In the 1970s, Notre Dame waning minutes. the Ku Klux Klan planned an head coach Dan Devine and Some might have been present attack on the University and the Georgia Tech head coach for the stadium rededication in Big 10 refused to allow Notre Pepper Rodgers -old rivals 1997, a 17-13 win over the Dame to become a member from Missouri and Kansas, Yellow Jackets that marked Bob institution. respectively -brought new Davie's debut. 
"That was the world that blood to the series. "It has been a while since Rockne and Notre Dame had to In 1976, the Yellow Jackets Georgia Tech has been consis­operate in," Sperber said. "They beat the Irish despite attempting tently at the top of the rankings turned it to their advantage only one pass, an incompletion. year in and year out," Soares because not many Big 10 The Irish were stunned by the said. schools would play them ... wishbone, but made up for it the Tech's last national title was in [and] they had to travel great following year, winning 69-14 1990, two years after Notre distances for opponents." en route to a national champi­Dame's :J 988 title. 
Notre Dame's first game onship. However, although their mod­against Georgia Tech, a 13-3 The rivalry grew in 1978 as ern teams don't have the cachet win, took place in 1922. angry Georgia Tech fans pelted of Southern California or 
"Going to Georgia Tech that the Nctre Dame sidelines with Lousiana State, there will be 
first time in 1922 was very bottles during the game, to the tradition at stake on both sides important," Sperber said. point where Devine was con­Saturday at Bobby Dodd "Rockne wanted big paydays ...~ cerned about team safety. Stadium. People criticized Rockne for They also threw fish in a ref­"They tend to win more than [scheduling this game] because erence to the derogatory term they lose and go to bowl Notre Dame might lose." for Catholics "mackerel snap­games," Soares said. "But I 
There are more than social pers," said Sperber. But the think a lot of fans don't appreci­implications to the Notre Dame­anti-Catholicism of the 1970s ate how rich their tradition is." Georgia Tech series, however. was nothing compared to what When Rcokne scheduled the Rockne faced in the 1920s, Contact Kate Gales at Yellow Jackets, it was a clash of when the Klan attempted to kg:tles@nd.edu 
' 
I I 
' I ,
I I I 
t I ' ' . 
I l I I 

----------......----~-~----~-~·---~---------.-. 
'' 
I 
t • 
t 
. \ I \ 
'1 
:!it 
H 
~ i 
. ' ~ 
' 
' f ' 

"( ; 
page 8 Friday, September 1, 20062
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 








