
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Lottery includes graduate students 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 
At the urging of the Office of Student Affairs, the Student Union Board (SUB) decided Wednesday to include graduate students in the Notre Dame vs. USC football ticket lottery less than an hour before it began. 
The threat of a possible protest by graduate students was a cata­lyst for the change in policy, said Director of Student Activities Brian Coughlin, who spoke on the phone with senior staff mem­bers in Student Affairs around 11 a.m. Wednesday. 
Together, Coughlin and top officials from Student Affairs ­who were also concerned with SUB's reasons for excluding graduate students in the first place -decided "to tell [SUB manager] Patrick [Vassel] to open up the lottery to graduate students." 
The last-minute instruction came as a surprise to Vassel, who was called into Coughlin's office around 11:30 a.m. Wednesday and told of Student Affairs' concerns. 
Vassel was able to send out an e-mail to grad students notifying them of the change around noon and clearly the word spread fast. Vassel said 2,200 student ID cards were swiped between noon and 5 p.m. and roughly 230 of them, or 10 percent, were from graduate students. 
Although SUB is solely respon­sible for the distribution of the 300 tickets allocated to students for away games, the Student Activities Office advises the organization and it delivered an "instruction" that SUB include graduate students in the lottery. 
"It was a hard thing to do and we don't like to do it .... We like to be advisors, we don't like to tell student groups what to do," Coughlin said. 
Graduate students were origi­nally excluded from the lottery because they do not pay the Student Activities Fee, which funds SUB. But Student Affairs officials decided that reason "was not significant enough." 
"We were completely in sup­port of the decision [to exclude graduate students]," Vassel said. "We stood behind it and this change in policy has nothing to do with us." 
He did not want to comment further on the inclusion of grad­uate students until the lottery was completed, he said. 
On Wednesday, SUB put for­ward a compromise to appease the disgruntled graduate stu­dents, who had hoped to be included in the USC ticket lottery 
see LOTTERY/page 6 

STUDENT SENATE 
Members pass Native Atnerican resolution 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 
The Student Senate unanimously passed a resolution Wednesday that, if implemented, will provide more resources for Native American stu­dents -a group making up less than one percent of the University's stu­dent body. 
Six Native American students sat behind Minority Affairs committee chair Destinee DeLemos as she pre­sented her committee's resolution, which called for: 
+ Academic departments to make seats available for non-majors in courses that examine the history and culture of Native Americans. There are currently four such classes, all under the American Studies Department. 
+Academic departments to explore the possibility of creating a modern Native American issues course. 
+ 
The Office of the President to appoint a permanent member of the faculty or staff to serve as an "official advisor" to Native American students. 

+ 
Campus literature and public addresses to "render" a greater sensi­tivity toward the Native Americans who previously inhabited the University area. 


+The student body to stand behind the inclusion of all Native American students in "all spheres of the Notre Dame experience." 
When Social Concerns committee chair Sheena Plamoottil asked about the experiences of Native American students at Notre Dame, senior Nikki Williams, of the Pyramid Lake Paiute tribe in Nevada, described her experi­ence. 
"For me, coming here as a Native American person and not having any other Native American people to share my experiences with . . . it was 
see SENATE/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Groups apply for club status 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
Assistant News Editor 
Wednesday marked the final day for Notre Dame students interested in forming a club to apply for University recognition through the Office of Student Activities. 
Assistant Director of Student Activities Amy Geist had received 15 applications by mid-afternoon, but was expecting upwards of 25 by the 5 p.m. deadline. 
Groups turned in a thick pro­posal packet, which included a constitution, schedule of events, tentative budget, written approval from impacted depart­ments or offices on campus, list of officers and official proposal form. Despite the preparation, they have to wait about a year and a half before they'll learn whether they've been granted club status, Geist said. 
Before granting club status, the University requires a club to go through a probationary year, where the club puts its proposal into action. And before that pro­bationary year of club status even begins, a prospective club must meet three approvals. 
The process begins with Geist, who looks through proposal packets to make sure they're complete. 
She then hands the proposals to Student Activities Director Brian Coughlin for the "University filter." Coughlin makes sure the groups aren't "in conflict with the teachings of the Catholic Church of the mission of the University," Geist said. 
Geist said she could not specifY 
see CLUBS/page 6 



Ethicist discusses AIDS in Africa 
Farley addresses issues of gender and faith in epidemic response 

Ethicist Margaret Farley gestures during the lecture she gave Wednesday in the Law School Courtroom on AIDS in Africa. 
By KATHLEEN McDONNELL 
News Writer 
While many African nations continue to see a rise in the num­ber of HIV infected citizens, Kenya is one country that has seen a decline. But that shouldn't be taken as a sign that the global pandemic is under control, Yale ethicist Margaret Farley said Wednesday in a lecture entitled "Gender, Faith, and Responses to HIV/AIDS in Africa." 
"It is outrunning both them and us," Farley told students and fac­ulty in the Law School Courtroom, referring to the people of Africa and those in the Western world trying to help. 
Farley said when she asked a Kenyan woman why her nation's 
see AFRICA/page 4 


Chicago lawyer rails against death penalty 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Thomas Durkin, the first speak­er in Notre Dame Against State Killing's (NDASK) four-part lec­ture series, told audience mem­bers Wednesday night he hoped they did not expect an impartial discussion of the death penalty ­as he proceeded to speak passion­ately in the Snite Museum's Annenberg Auditorium about his involvement in the death penalty abolition movement and his moral opposition to capital punishment. 
"This system wrongfully con­victs people," Durkin said. "This system cannot pick out who is innocent and who is not." 
Durkin, a 1968 Notre Dame graduate, is a Chicago-based trial lawyer who was involved in imposing a moratorium on the death penalty in Illinois. 
Lessons about social justice from the Holy Cross priests at Notre Dame and his work in the legal profession instilled in him a belief that the death penalty was wrong, Durkin said. 
"The one thing I have become convinced of in my thirty-three years of being a trial lawyer and [from] the experiences I have been involved in death penalty lit­igation is that it's wrong," Durkin said. "It's morally wrong, it's pro­cedurally wrong, it's stupid and it has no business being in a civi­lized country." 
A letter from a death row inmate claiming he was the victim of an unfair system and pleading for a good lawyer to defend him 
see LAWYER/page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Hey, I just 
take the 

pictures 

When you read the newspaper, do you ever see a photo that sums up the entire news article right then and there? They say that a picture is worth a thousand words and it could­n't be more true. As a Christian Sagardia photographer for The 
Observer, I Photographer 
get a view that most people don't get: one on the outside looking in. You may wonder, how is that? Aren't I supposed to be the guy behind the scenes or on the front lines, there when things go down? Indeed, I am there, but with different eyes. Seeing things through the lens of a camera gives one a new view. An editorial or news article can have bias toward one particular side, no matter how "objective" the writing is. A picture, on the other hand, doesn't really show a bias, because it is what it is. Pictures don't lie, and the good ones can tell us volumes about an event. Sometimes words fail where only a photo can succeed. 
When I go on assignments and shoots, people always ask me how the news article is going to be, or how it's going to be written. I always reply, "Hey, I just take the pictures." I've thought about that saying, and what it really means. I sometimes feel like I can tell a story through my work. I take pride in my pictures, because it's a means of communicat­ing with people. I remember one assignment, a recent one, in which I shot some photos for a student the­atre production. I had done the shoot several days before the review was going to come out, during a tech rehearsal, and I decided to run one of the photos as a floater on the inside cover of The Observer. The photo was a beautiful photo, with amazing colors and tones (imfortu­nately, the photo ran in black and white). This single photo convinced several people I know to go see the show, and I'm sure many more enjoyed the photograph. Point is, that image told a story and had a mean­ing to it that people saw. Needless to say, after hearing the positive feed­back, I was proud of my work, of my art. 
I admit, my writing skills aren't the best (this article was proofread sev­eral times, natch), so I turn to pho­tography to get information out to the people. My job allows me to express what people can't with words. It allows me to communicate feelings and emotions. I can evoke a sense of beauty, anger, patriotism, happiness, bliss, sadness, a whole spectrum of sentiments with a simple photograph. It allows me to do all this, with little bias and without being subjective. Being a photographer has given me a new perspective on life. I see things from the outside, as a silent observer. 
My job is simple: tell it like it is. Rather than using words, I let my photographs speak for themselves. In the end, they tell it like it is, and they speak the truth. 
Contact Christian Sagardia at csagardi@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please call us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, November 2, 2006 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD HAVE THREE WISHES, WHAT WOULD THEY BE? 



Alex Hale  Adam Cunningham  Casey Scott  
junior Stanford  freshman Keenan  senior offcampus  
"Invisibility, time travel and flight.,  "Everyone goes to heaven, a hundred million dollars and irresistible sex appeal."  "Endless amounts of money to give to the poor. world peace and special  
power.  

Mean squirrel attacks letter carrier 
OIL CITY, Pa. -Letter carriers occasionally have to deal with angry dogs or maybe even a spider's nest in a mail­box, but a mean squir­rel? Barb Dougherty, a 30-year Postal Service employee, said she was attacked and bitten Monday by a squirrel while delivering mail in Oil City, about 75 miles north of Pittsburgh. 
"It was a freak thing. It was traumatic," Dougherty told The Derrick in Oil City. "I saw it there on the porch, put 

abolished, and we live by the spirit of inclusion. " 


Executive Andrew Spano. 
The former inmate, Oscar Aponte, was taking his daughter trick-or­treating in Peekskill on Tuesday night when a county correction officer -also out trick-or-treat­ing with her child ­spotted the familiar jumpsuit, Tolchin said. 
"She confronted him, and he ran and drove off," Tolchin said. The officer took down the man's license plate and called authorities. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

the mail in the box and turned to walk away and it jumped on me." 
The animal ran up her leg and onto her back, she said. 
Ex-Inmate's costume sparks jail lockdown 
WHITE PLAINS, N.Y. ­A jail went into lockdown and recounted its prison­ers on Halloween night after a former inmate was spotted trick-or­treating in his old orange prisoner's jumpsuit. 
"Bad choice of cos­tume," said Susan Tolchin, chief adviser to Westchester County 

Alex Kelly Theresa Welch Tim Roy 
freshman senior junior Lewis offcampus O'Neill 
"Notre Dame "Something I "A pool ofJello, wins a national always wish world peace championship, for: to take over and a national parietals are the world ... championship. " 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::1: 
!;;: 
LLI 
3: 
_, 
<C 
(.) 0 


HIGH 39 HIGH 29 HIGH 42
.... 


HIGH LOW 

with love." 
IN BRIEF 
Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, will speak on "Immigration and the Midterm Elections" at 5:30 tonight in the Annenberg Auditorium of Snite Museum of Art. 
Father Bill Miscamble will be signing his book "From Roosevelt to Truman," from 1 

p.m.  to  3  Friday  at  the  
Hammes  Notre  Dame  
Bookstore.  

Tera Hunter of Carnegie Mellon University will speak on "Until Death or Distance Do You Part: Marriage and Slavery in the Nineteenth Century" at 11 a.m. Friday in rooms 210-214 McKenna Hall. 
Emeritus Catholie Bishop Paride Taban will give the lec­ture "Post-war Challenges of Faith: Southern Sudan in the Shadows of Darfur" Friday at 1 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. 
North Carolina Governor Michael Easley will give the lecture "Intersection of Values and Politics in Modern American Life" Friday at 2 
p.m. in 102 DeBartolo Hall. 
A panel will be discussing "The Role of Religion in Peacebuilding" Saturday at 11 a.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. The event will fea­ture speakers from the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH LOW 

50 
41 

Thursday, November 2, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Deloitte exec gives lecture 
By STEVE KERINS 
News Writer 
Ethical business practices are increasingly a primary concern for American businesses, and students should capitalize on Notre Dame's educational oppor­tunities to prepare themselves for a more ethics-conscious workplace, a business executive said Wednesday. 
Sharon Allen, chairman of the Board of Directors at Deloitte & Touche, USA, delivered a lecture entitled "Leadership and Ethics" -the fourth talk in this year's Berges Lecture Series, which addresses issues of ethics in busi­ness. 
Allen stressed that American corporations are vieWing ethical conduct with a growing serious­ness. 
"My message for you today is that ethics is a mandate, not an option," she said. "We at Deloitte cannot sustain the public's trust without each of our people acting with integrity." 
Allen reiterated a theme com­mon in this year's Berges lec­tures -the need for companies to effectively translate their codes of ethics into an active, adaptive culture of ethical business. 
"As its essence, true progress comes not in compliance, but in transformation," she said. "You cannot legislate ethics." 
Allen illustrated her point by enumerating several policies in place at Deloitte designed to train and assist employees in making ethical decisions at work. She said Deloitte has been able to dis­tinguish itself as a leader in this area.because of its large size. 
"[We] help people navigate through the gray areas, because ethics are seldom black and white," Allen said, highlighting her company's "consultative cul­ture" as a strength enabling employees to work with one another when facing issues of ethics. 
Allen noted the recent rash of corporate scandals that have received extensive media cover­age, but said a small number of individuals have prompted a loss of public trust in American busi­ness at large. 
"Have we lost our way?" she said. "I don't really think so, because I believe that a great, great majority of our population neither approves nor is a part of [unethical business practices]." 
Allen echoed speakers in previ­ous lectures in speaking about the change in business culture following from the Sarbanes­Oxley Act of 2002. Although she argued that the responsibility for ethics in the workplace falls pri­marily on companies, she said the government has laid impor­tant groundwork for large-scale improvement. 
"[Sarbanes-Oxley] put a legal structure in place that demands a new level of accountability," Allen said. 
Allen also spoke about com­plaints raised in the business community regarding the high cost of implementing changes in ethics oversight. 
"Surveys indicate that the Sarbanes-related costs are going down by as much as 40 percent for larger companies," she said. "As far as cost [at Deloitte]. I don't think about it as dollars spent, I think about it as dollars protected." 
The characteristics of the gen­eration currently entering busi­ness might affect the future of business ethics, Allen said. There has been concern over a per­ceived gap between ethical val­ues and practice in today's young adults, she said, but their empha­sis on maintaining a balance between work and life will prove beneficial in the corporate world. 
"It's my view that maintaining that proper balance in your life actually makes ... ethical choices easier," Allen said, citing her company's outreach efforts to promote ethical development among schoolchildren. 
Deloitte is an accountancy and professional services firm employing nearly 40,000 people in the United States and tens of thousands more worldwide, and is known locally as a popular employer for graduates of Notre Dame. 
The Berges Lecture Series is sponsored by the Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business and the Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide. The next lecture in the series will be entitled "Business and Human Rights" and will take place Nov. 14. 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd.edu 
Guatemalan advocate vvorks for peace, justice 

By LAURA BODIEN 
News Writer 
When her sister was mur­dered on Sept. 11, 1990, Helen Mack Chang was enlightened. 
"I was born," Chang, one of Guatemala's most vocal advo­cates for justice and reconcili­ation of the country's 36-year civil war, told an audience Tuesday in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. "My spirit was enriched." 
Chang is the winner of the 2005 Notre Dame Prize for Distinguished Service in Latin America. After she won the 1992 Right Livelihood Award -a Swedish award often called the "alternative Nobel Prize"-Chang used the mon­etary portion of her award to found the Myrna Mack Foundation in honor of her deceased sister. 
Chang said she formed the foundation to bring justice to political villains who mur­dered and brutally stabbed her sister 27 times and who have tortured, tormented and killed countless other Guatemalans. 
Different groups or regions work in conjunction with organized crime to control various sections of the coun­tr:y, she said. 
While more than 60 percent of Guatemalans live in poverty, "the government doesn't worry about trying to better life of the citizens," Chang said. 
In addition to the socioeco­nomic concerns, she said, modern times have incited fresh incidences of violence and oppression. 
Roughly 6,000 people die each year and nearly 96 per­cent of the homicides go unpunished according to records from the justice department, she said. 
Statistics like this further validate the mission of the Myrna Mack Foundatioq, Chang said, adding that sucb numbers prove that the justice and security institutions are not working like they used to. 
The political system no longer consists of multiple parties, but simply recycles past military personnel as politicians, she said. The mili­tary, she said, basically served to kill off Guatemalans opposed to those in power for a long while. 
Fourteen years of hard work and perseverance have not been enough for Chang. Even after the sentencing of her sis­ter's murderers and the acceptance of responsibility for its occurrence by the gov­ernment, she recognizes the problem still exists. 
There are currently 185 pending cases of persons who have disappeared, been mur­dered or tortured in correla­tion with political motives, she said. It is Chang's hope that one day all such cases be rec­onciled completely. 
"Every community has the government it deserves," Chang said. "We need to pro­voke [that government] in Guatemala." 
With 70 percent of the Guatemalan population lack­ing an education, Chang said it is difficult to rally people and help them understand the solution to oppression. 
Chang said she hopes stu­dents in the U.S. -including those at Notre Dame -will take an interest in the American political system. Young people need to be informed, she said, and need to recognize that many of the fears Americans are experi­encing now are similar to those experienced by Guatemalans nearly 30 years ago -specifically, censorship and limits on personal free­doms. 
But Chang said she refuses to be paralyzed by fear any longer and will continue her struggle for justice and recon­ciliation. 
Chang is an honorary mem­ber of both the ·National Advisory Security Council and Guatemala's Commission on Strengthening Justice. 
Contact Laura Bodien at lbodien@nd.edu 
Live, learn, and work in the nation's capital during the fall or spring semester with the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME SHIN N INFORMATION OPEN HOUSE Thursday, November 2, 2006 10:00 a.m. ­3:00 p.m. in 163 Hurley ' Come by for KRISPY KREME DONUTS in the morning or COOKIES in the afternoon! Deadline to apply for Fall2007 or Spring 2008 is November 15,2006. Contact Uz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu; 163 Hurley; 631-7251; www.nd.edu/-wp  


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 2, 2006 

Africa 
continued from page 1 
numbers of HIV infected citizens are declining, the woman answered, "I think it may have been because we all already died." 
This is the reality of the situation in sub-Saharan Africa, a place where HIV has already claimed the lives of 14 million people, said Farley, who has been battling this crisis for the pa.<;t six years. While some progress has been made, 28 million people in the region live with the devastating disease, she said. 
Farley said her time in Africa has been a "marvelous and terri­ble journey." 
"[It is] difficult to imagine a more difficult situation in any time peri­od than what we're facing today with the AIDS pandemic," she said. 
Much of Farley's work is done through two projects-a women's initiative that consults with the Circle of African Women Theologians and an All-Africa Sister to Sister Conference, whi<:h works with women from 21 difi'er­ent countries. 
"On the basis of (the women's! experiences, let me begin by observing that we have sisters and brothers everywhere ... and lives are destructed, families arP being destroyed." 
Farley focused on the role women can -and should -play in controlling the disease. Women are at a greater risk for infection and death, she said. For every 10 men infected, 13 women are infected. 
"Whole generations have been wiped out. In some villages it is possible to lind no one over the age of 14," Farley said. "Women bear a disproportionate burden .... But without power, women who could, and I believe do, hold the key to stopping the pandemic arn shut out." 
Farley said many women are "blatantly cxduded" from posi­tions of economic, soda!, and polit­ical power, allowing the patterns of sexism and submission to per­petuate. 
Much of women's powerlessness comes when sex is dcmandnd on religious or cultural grounds, she said. Women are often coerced into marriages and into having unprote(:ted sex, Farley said, evnn if the partner is potentially infbct­nd with I IIV. 
"Women may have to stay in relationships in lear of losing ceo­nomic support, and women with AIDS are morn likely to bo stigma­tized," she said. 
The current solutions are not enough to control the "over­whelming problem," Farley said, offering ideas for effective rospons<~s to the pandemie gar­nerod from her own experiences in Africa. 
Farley said women breaking the silence and bringing the issues to the forefront of people's minds is key. 
She also said a working partner­ship with Afriean women is vital because "it is not we who interpret a woman's experience or eall for a chango of cultural or social behav­ior -the Afrieans shouldn't be expected to come into our agen­da." 
A common goal and common hope is also crucial for relations, she said. 
Farley said there is also a cross­eultural a.<;peet of her work, as it is not possible to transplant beliefs and practices wholesale from one culture to tho next. 
"We can stand in solidarity with those of the culture who may criti­cize a certain a.<;peet of it, as long as we look to our own culture with thP same critical eyes," Farley said. 
Action is requirod basPd on our understanding of the world ehureh, she said. 
"We are all equal shares in the one life of the Church," Farley said, "called to bear the burdens of one another. It is often said in this regard that Christ ha.<; AIDS." 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 

Lawyer 
continued from page 1 
drew Durkin into his first death penalty case. Gregory Resnover was sentenced to death in Indiana for the murder of Indianapolis police sergeant Jack Ohrberg. This case, Durkin said, showed him why the death penalty system is flawed. There had been no meaningful pre-trial investigation, no depositions taken of key wit­nesses or any of the basic steps taken to defend Resnover, Durkin said. 
"Resnover was absolutely right, in my opinion, that he was getting set up," he said. 
Resnover, a black man, was rep­resented in his appeal by a young lawyer who had just passed the bar exam after three failed attempts. He lost his appeal and was executed on Dec. 8, 1994. 
Durkin spent the last day of Resnover's life in South Bend, working with other lawyers to convince the judge to halt the exe­cution. 
"I am absolutPly convinced ... that with a good lawyer, he wouldn't have ended up being executed," Durkin said. 
After his unsuccessful effort to halt the execution, Durkin heard on his car radio that Resnover's family had sent a hearse to the Michigan City prison to pick up his body. 
That image has been seared in his mind, Durkin said. 
"What is going on here?" he asked. "They brought this man in in chains and they are bringing him out in a hearse." 
From that point on, Durkin said, he and his wil{l -who works as a partner in their legal practice ­vowed to do whatever they could do to put an end to the death penalty. 
It's a serious issue f(Jr the United States, he said. 
In 2005, the United States was one of six countries that con­tributed to 90 percent of tho state­sponsored executions in the world, according to Amnesty International. The United States ranks fourth in the number of death penalties carried out, behind China, Iran and Saudi Arabia, and bofore Pakistan and Yemen, Durkin said. 
Since his involvement in Resnover's ease, Durkin said he ha.'i been a part of live or six death penalty eases as a trial lawyer, a habeas corpus council or a guardian for anyone considered insane on death row. 
I lis work toward abolishing the death pnnalty over the years has given him some hopn that there is a possibility for change, Durkin said. 
And the turning point, he said, may have been at Northwestern University in November 1998 at the first annual National Conference on Wrongful Convictions and the Death Penalty, which he attendod. At the semi­nar's end, approximately 30 of the 58 men who had been exonerated from death row were introduced. 
One by one, the men walked to the center of the stage, laid a daisy in a vase of water and told their story of how they were savod from capital punishment. 
"I was never so moved by any­thing in my life," Durkin said. "It was the most amazing thing I'd ever seen." 
Notm Dame must be a force in the anti-death penalty movement, he said. 
"I don't know how the premier Catholic university in this country has a law school that isn't doing anything about the death penalty," he said, citing the absence of a wrongful convictions clinic. 
Durkin urged students to "raise hell" about the death penalty issue. 
"This eampus has been conspic­uously silent on this issue, much to my chagrin," Durkin said. 
The next NDJ\SK lecture in the series will feature Deacon George Brooks November 8 in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 



We now own the most popular student apartments and townhouses in the area! 
Leasing for 2007-2008 school year 
Notre.,,Dame Apartments  lafayette Square Townhouses  
835 Notre Dame Avenue  424 N. Frances Street  
• 2-bedroom Apartments  • 4 and 5 Bedroom Townhouses  
• Spacious 1,1 00 sq. ft. units  • 6 Blocks from Campus  
• Within Walking Distance to ND (2 Blocks}  • 2 Bathrooms  
• Off-Street Parking  • Off-Street Parking  
• On-Site laundry  • Washer and Dryer  
• Water Utility Included in Rent  • Dishwasher  
• Central Air  • Central Air  
• Secured Exterior Doors with Intercom System  • Security System  


Call today-these units are renting quickly View all of our houses, apartments and townhouses at www.kramerhouses.com 
Contact Kramer at (574) 315-5032 or (574) 234-2436 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, November 2, 2006 Cotv\P!Lf:D FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WlRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Sunni coaches abducted in Sadr City 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -Gunmen abducted a top Iraqi basketball official and a blind ath­letic coach. both Sunnis. on Wednesday, a day after U.S. and Iraqi forces lifted a blockade on Baghdad's Shiite militia stronghold of Sadr City. 
The attack took place at a youth club on relatively prosperous Palestine Street in eastern Baghdad near the Sadr City dis­trict, which is controlled by anti-American cleric Muqtada al-Sadr's Mahdi Army. The militia has been linked to scores of abduc­tions and torture killings of Sunnis. 
Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki ordered military roadblocks dismantled Tuesday around the sprawling slum of 2.5 million. Al-Maliki acted under pressure from al­Sadr, whose political faction is a key part of the governing coalition. 
16 killed in attack on police station 
BOGOTA, Colombia-Hundreds of leftist rebels bombarded a remote police station with makeshift mortars in a pre-dawn attack Wednesday and ambushed a column of police reinforcements, killing at least 16 officers, authorities said. 
The six-hour assault in the village of Tierradentro, 230 miles northwest of Bogota, was the bloodiest since President Alvaro Uribe was re-elected in May in a landslide that endorsed his get-tough poli­cy with the rebels. 
Authorities blamed the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, better known as the FARC. At least 10 police officers were missing and four civilians wounded, said Jairo Lopez, the top security official for Cordoba state, where the attack occurred. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

New York City to look for WfC bones 
NEW YORK -The city is planning to hire several more forensic experts to help hunt for human remains around the World Trade Center site after a cache of human bones, believed to be those of Sept. 11 victims, was found there last month, a deputy mayor said Wednesday. 
As many as 10 more forensic anthropolo­gists will be hired temporarily to help in the next phase of the recovery project, which involves excavating more manholes and underground areas, tearing up parts of side streets and exploring rooftops of selected buildings near the 16-acre site, Deputy Mayor Ed Skyler said. Officials say that work could take up to a year. 
Some 200 pieces of bone and other remains have been found since last month, when some of them were discovered in a manhole along the western edge of the lower Manhattan site. 
AWOL soldier disappears again 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -A U.S. Army soldier who fled to Canada rather than return to Iraq has disappeared again, this time just a day after surrendering to the military. 
Pvt. Kyle Snyder, 23, of Colorado Springs, Colo., told The Associated Press he was sup­posed to return by bus to Fort Leonard Wood, Mo., Louisville on Tuesday but didn't go. He said he went AWOL after Fort Knox officials told him he would be sent back to his unit, the 94th Engineer Battalion. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Long likely to be next leader ofSenate 
INDIANAPOLIS -Republican Sen. David Long of Fort Wayne is likely to be the next leader of the Indiana Senate now that the lone remaining contender has dropped out of the race, a fellow senator said Wednesday. 
Sen. Thomas Weatherwax, R-Logansport said Wednesday that he had dropped out of the race. 
Weatherwax told The Associated Press in a phone interview that he met with Long at noon Tuesday and later sent a letter informing the caucus that he was dropping out. 

Al-Jazeera to launch internationally 
Arab network set to be first English-speaking station based in the Middle East 
Associated Press 

DOHA, Qatar -Al­Jazeera's taboo-smashing newscasts regularly vex politicians in Washington, but not nearly as much as they anger leaders in the Arab world, where the news chan­nel has been banned from operating in 18 countries at one time or another. 
Now, the network is launching it<> biggest gamble on its 1Oth anniversary -an English-language channel with an Arab perspeetive. Al­Jazeera International plans to hit the airwaves Nov. 15 and hopes to steal viewers from CNN and the BBC. 
Feisty and sometimes graphic coverage of global carnage is an Al-Jazeera spe­cialty, as is bracing commen­tary that has shaken up the Arab world and rattled the West. 
"We have an edge over the other networks: We're already based in the Middle East. And we have a different perspective," director Wadah Khanfar told a news confer­ence at the network's Doha headquarters Wednesday. 
Al-Jazeera has been through a lot in 10 years, with three staffers killed in Iraq, another locked away without charge at the U.S. prison facility in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and a correspon­dent who interviewed Osama bin Laden convicted on terror best seen in Saudi Arabia, appear to be having money Al-Jazeera says its goal is charges in Spain. where the network has never trouble. Al-Jazeera to reverse the information 
Those it has covered have been allowed to send a International has hired more flow to the world's 1 billion also suffered. The network is reporter-even those mak­than 500 staffers, poaching English speakers who now credited with waking up ing personal pilgrimages to some of the world's best­have no choice but to watch Arab TV viewers with brash Mecca. known journalists from net­Western-oriented broadcast­discussions of banned topics. Worse, a Saudi boycott of works including the British ers. AI-Jazeera International It questioned autocrats the channel bars Al-Jazeera Broadcasting Corp., CNN, also appears to have natural across the region and advertisers from doing busi­CNBC and ABC. It will broad­audiences among the world's brought a large dollop of ness in the kingdom. The cast in ultra-expensive high­1.2 billion Muslims, most of diplomatic clout to Qatar, a boycott has chased away definition TV with four chief whom don't speak Arabic. tiny sheikdom on the Persian almost all advertisers, leaving broadcast centers rather Before taking on the big Gulf. A frustrated President Al-Jazeera dependent on the than CNN's two or BBC's one. networks, however, it first Bush even talked of bombing deep pockets of Qatar's royal Although its one-time needs to be seen, which the channel's headquarters in family. anchor, Riz Khan, is among requires coaxing hundreds of 2004, according to a leaked "We are totally blocked those who departed for AI­global cable TV operators to British government memo. from Saudi Arabia," Khanfar Jazeera International, CNN carry its signal. This has been 
"It made the airwaves said. The station's employees International said it wel­tough in many countries, the uncontrollable," Amjad are also banned from Iraq, comed the new competition. station's commercial director Nasser wrote Wednesday in Tunisia and Algeria, staffers "We're not worried," Lindsey Oliver said -not the London-based pan-Arab said. spokeswoman Susanna Flood least the United States, where daily Al-Quds AI-Arabi. The network declines to said. "News channels are the Bush administration has 
The fear Al-Jazeera say virtually anything about judged by what they do and accused Al-Jazeera of anti­inspires in the Arab world is its finances, but it doesn't not what they say they'll do." American bias. 

Kerry apologizes for ''botched joke" 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Fearful of dam­aging his own party in next week's elections, Sen. John Kerry apologized Wednesday to "any service member, family member or American" offend­ed by remarks deemed by Republicans and Democrats to be insulting to U.S. forces in Iraq. 
Six days before the election, the Democrats' 2004 presidential nomi­nee said he wanted to avoid becom­ing a distraction in the final days of the battle for control of Congress. He added he sincerely regretted that his words were "misinterpreted to imply anything negative about those in uni­form." 
In a brief statement, Kerry 
attacked President Bush for a "failed security policy." Yet his apology, issued after prominent Democrats had urged him to cancel public appearances, was designed to quell a controversy that party leaders feared would stall their drive for big gains on Nov. 7. 
With polls showing the public opposed to the war in Iraq, Democrats have expressed increas­ing optimism in recent days that they will gain the 15 seats they need to win control of the House. Democrats must pick up six seats to win the Senate, a taller challenge, and both parties made last-minute efforts to increase the number of competitive races. 
For the Democratic senatorial com­mittee, that meant pumping about $1 million into an Arizona race long thought out of reach. For the coun­terpart Republican committee, it meant a foray into Maryland, also viewed as an unlikely state to pick up a seat. 
Kerry beat a grudging retreat in his return to the national campaign spot­light. Earlier, on the radio program "Imus in the Morning," the Massachusetts senator said he was "sorry about a botched joke" about Bush. He heaped praise on the troops, adamantly accused Republicans of twisting his words and said it was the commander in chief and his aides who "owe America an apology for this disaster in Iraq." 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 2, 2006 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
disheartening and really, really lonely," she said. 
Though the resolution passed with no opposing votes, some sen­ators had reservations about cer­tain provisions, such as the demand that seats be opened for non-majors in classes that study Native American history and cul­ture. 
"If we do this, we should open up courses for African American [studies], studies of the llolocaust ... to any group that has been dis­advantaged," said Dillon llaU sen­ator Tyler Langdon, who added that he "completely" agreed with the resolution, except for the part that called for special access to Native American classes. 
But DeLemos insisted that increasing access to Native American classes was imperative for a minority group with such few resources on campus. 
"I think it's the minimum that can be done right now," DeLemos said. 
In support of the clause, other senators noted that it reflects another Senate initiative from last year that calls for course require­ments at Notre Dame to include classes that promote cultural competency. 
DeLemos' committee has worked on that initiative since the start of the school year. 
Senators then voted to not strike the dause from the resolu­tion. 
Fisher Hall senator Drew Clary had concerns about the wording of the resolution, saying that its emphasis on Catholic Social Teaching sends .a "subliminal message" that those who vote against it are "voting against Catholic Social Teaching." 
But Clary's comments were quickly addressed by student body president Lizzi Shappell who said the reference to Catholic Social Teaching was and should be "an integral part" of the reso­lution. 

"I think this [resolution] lives up exactly to Catholic Social Teaching and ifwe don't acknowl­edge that then we're not recogniz­ing what this University is based on," Shappell said. 
In other business: 
+ Senators unanimously passed a resolution that supports the renewal of an existing contraet that allows Holy Cross students to have access to the Hockne Memorial Athletic Facility. 
In 2001, then-University President Father Edward "Monk" Malloy renewed a contract that gave Holy Cross students acecss to the Rock while a new Holy Cross athletic faeility was being built. 
That contract expires at the end of 2006, but Holy Cross's new ath­letic facility will not be complete by then, said University Affairs committee ehair Aly Baumgartner. 
+ 
Shappell, Plamoottil, student body vice president Bill Andrichik and chief executive assistant Liz Brown met with Director of Food Services Dave Prentkowski to dis­cuss a recent Senate resolution that called for Food Services to only use Fair Trade coffee in aU of its non-franchised operations. 

Prentkowski has created a task force to address thfl issue, Plamoottil said, and Plamoottil will "keep the lines of communi­cation open" as the Food Services and student government continue to work on implementing the goals of the resolution. 

+ 
Andriehik announced that senior Notre Dame students will now have access to Irish Online, an online directory of contact information for more than 100,000 Notre Dame alumni. More details will be released in a press release today, he said. 


Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

Clubs 
continued from page 1 
what type of group would be denied club status at that stage. 
AllianceND, an unrecog­nized gay and lesbian student group, is one group that has applied for and been denied dub status for two straight years. Similar proposals have been denied nine times in the last 10 years, aecording to a March 22, 2005 artide in The Observer, and no gay and les­bian student group has suc­
cessfully secured oflkial status. 
The groups that do make it past Coughlin's filter are passed on to the Club Coordination Council (CCC), which is com­prised of repre­sentatives from six club divi­sions -aea­demic, athletic, cultural, per­
"If it's a group with an outrageous budget, with no hope ofraising funds ... that might be a significant /deterrent] for the 
CCC" 
Amy Geist assistant director Student Activities 
forming arts, social service and special interest. 
Prospective dubs then meet with the division they'd likely be alloeated to and the reprn­sentatives from that division return and present to the rest of the CCC, she said. 
This year, those meetings will take place in January, Geist said. 
"They'll give a synopsis of each of the groups ... and they'll recommend whether or not groups are given proba­tionary status," she said. 
The CCC then votes on whether to grant groups pro­bationary status or deny recognition. 
Geist said a major factor in the CCC's decision-making is l'inancing. The Financial Management Board gives the CCC one-third of the $95 stu­dent activities fee all students pay, which amounted to $278,000 last year, Gnist said. Proceeds from The Shirt also benelit student groups. 
"If it's a group with an out­rageous budget, with no hope of raising funds and no grasp of other alternatives, that might be a signi!ieant !deter­rent] for the CCC," she said, "because they ean't finaneially accommodate it and have the other groups we have, too." 
Onee they've made their decisions, the CCC sends its 
recommenda­tions back to Coughlin. 
"For the most part, he supports the recommenda­tion or the CCC," Geist said. 
During the three years they've been using this process, he's never contra­dicted it, she said. 

Of the 10 to 15 groups that applied last year, four were denied probationary status. During Geist's live ynars, she said she's had several groups apply more than once, but none have applied all five years. 
Geist said in some cases, basic confusion is to blame fi)r a club's failure to obtain recognition. 
"I find sometimes students don't realize they didn't even apply for club recognition," Geist said. "They'll submit one thing or come talk to me about something, but not actually follow our ollieial process." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy@nd.edu 

Lottery 
continued from page 1 
after being denied access for the Michigan State game earlier this year. The compromise would have allowed graduate students exclusive access to leftover lot­tery tickets on Nov. 8. 
But graduate students were still not satisfied, and decided to go forward with plans for a protest outside Legends anyway. 
Janice Kenney, a graduate stu­dent who helped plan the protest, had made six posters, gathered about 40 graduate stu­dents and was "fully prepared" to protest when she lward about the policy change just after 1 
p.m. Wednesday. 
"I was very pleasantly sur­prised," she said. "We were all prepared to launch the protest but we were extremely glad we didn't have to." 
Student body president Lizzi Shappell, who stood behind SUB's deeision to exclude gradu­ate students, said she was "very surprised" when she learned about the changes. 
"We need to see where the communication breakdown occurred and avoid decision­making problems like this in the future," she said. 
Graduate Student Union mem­ber Paul Schwamm, who had urged SUB throughout the fall to reconsider its decision to exclude graduate students, was "very happy" with the policy change and viewed the concession as an important step in graduate­undergraduate student relations. 

"I think it really creates an opportunity for the [Graduate Student Union! and the SUB to eontinun to do things together in the future .... I think where we are right now is a great position because we're all ready to move forward together." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

'tht~ G::9\Ml~us s~-rot-?P£5 l 7 Iaza ,,, , (wit11 Sluilt 13-m:wls tmil Bi'lwr>'~ lilt fiu11) , %'4:;.;: <~~~ w :'%,":' ~y..<ov Hours: 1813 South l3£nd Avenue Munday-Saturday 10am-8pm South Bend, 'JN 46637 Sunday 12pm-5pm (574) 271-4990 Limited time offers for students: 10°/c, off with a Full Service.  
Students FlvCheaper Sample Fares from South Bend to: Sample Fares from Chicago to: Atlanta $202 Mexico $291 New York $202 Madrid $321 San Francisco $272 Amsterdam $371 . :_ ..-.· ·.... · ~ij~,.. •:.-·: Terms: All fares are bas11J on roundtrip travel and include aStudentUnivme service fee of $5. Domestic fares Include a7.196 US transportation tax. Other taxes and fees vary, dependmg on the itinerary and are not indud11J. Fares are subject to availability and change without notice, Domestic flights valid Mon-Thu with an 8day advance purchase. 2day min ~ay Including aSat night reqmred and max ~ay Is JO days. lntemational flights valid Mon­W11J w~h a 8 day advance purthase. Europe/Asia fares valid for departures between ~ov land Dec 14. latin America fares valid for depanures through Dec 9, Australia fares valid for depanures between Oct land De< 8. 4day min ~ay required and max stay is 90 days. Blackout dates and other restrictions  
.C::• StudentUniverse.com  



THE NANOVIC INSTITUTE FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES 
want to gain valuable experience doing 
summer research or an internshiP in Europe;> 
Meetings to discuss opportunities for undergraduate support 
will be held in the Nanovic Institute for European Studies 211 Brownson Hall 
on November 9, 13, 16, & 20th (select a date) from 4:30-5:30 pm. 
Come find out about the application process and prepare your successful application! APPlications are due Feb 16, 2001. 
To confirm your attendance please email skonopka@nd.edu, or call 1-5253 www. nd. edu/-nanovic 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Thursday, November 2, 2006 
page 7 

Dow 

12,031.02 -49.71

}ones 
~ Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,150 130 1,150 2,929,519,920 


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  -1.36  -0.58  42.00  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.50  -0.32  21.02  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -2.21  -0.12  5.31  
MICROSOFf CP (MSFT)  +0.35  +0.10  28.81  
.Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.98  -0.045  4.561  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.1 0  -0.005  4.935  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.89  -0.042  4.677  
5-YEARNOTE  -1.12  +0.051  4.517  
Commodities  
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.02  58.71  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +12.50  619.30  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -1.93  91.80  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  117.2550  
EURO  0.7843  
POUND  0.5243  
CANADIAN$  1.1321  

IN BRIEF 
CVS Corp. to buy Caremark Rx Inc. 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Drugstore operator CVS Corp. announced Wednesday it is buying pharmacy benefits manager Caremark Rx Inc. for about $21.3 billion in stock. 
The deal, which the companies described as a "merger of equals," would create a $75 billion drug distribution powerhouse that can take on retail leader Wal-Mart's growing presence in generic drug sales, analysts said. 
Company officials said the deal would cre­ate significant benefits for employers and health plans through more effective cost management and new programs, and for consumers through expanded choice and more personalized services. 
Under terms of the deal, Caremark share­holders will receive 1.67 shares of Woonsocket, R.I.-based CVS for each share of Caremark. CVS shareholders will own 54.5 percent of the combined company and Caremark shareholders will own 45.5 per­cent. The board of directors will be split evenly. 
The new company will be called CVS/Caremark Corp. and will be headquar­tered in Woonsocket. 

Time Warner reports higher earnings 
NEW YORK -Time Warner Inc. reported sharply higher earnings Wednesday thanks to a cable deal with Adelphia and an emerging turnaround at its AOL unit, but investors fretted over slower new phone customer growth at the nation's second-largest cable company. 
The leading media conglomerate, which owns the Time Inc. magazine publisher, Warner Bros., CNN and HBO, earned $2.3 billion, or 57 cents a share, in the third quar­ter, versus $853 million, or 18 cents a share, a year ago. 
Revenues rose 7 percent to $10.9 billion, shy of the $11.1 billion estimate of analysts polled by Thomson Financial. 
The earnings jump was driven by an adjustment related to its recently closed deal with Comcast Corp. to acquire the cable sys­tems of Adelphia Communications Corp. as well as several asset sales and other one­time effects. 



India attractive to surgery patients 
More Americans head overseas for hip replacements, angioplasties to save money 
Associated Press 
NEW DELHI, India-Greg 
Goodell flew from Iowa to India 
to have his arteries unclogged. 
Rick Thues made the trip from 
California for a new hip. John 
Terhune ventured from Indiana 
for a hip-and-knee combo. 
Combined, all three saved 
about $140,000, including the 
cost of travel and hotels, by 
having their surgeries last 
month in New Delhi instead of 
America -where the health 
care system had simply failed 
them. 
All in their 50s and fully 
employed, these men are 
an1ong the estinmted 500,000 
American_<; who are taking their 
health into their own hands by 
choosing medical care abroad. 
Many are stuck in a growing 
gap of uninsured or underin­
sured who are too young for 
Medicare and left with only los­
ing health care options: siphon­
ing their retirement, living in 
pain or possibly dying. 
"Our share of the American 
dream has been lost in the past 
five years," said Thues, 53, a 
computer consultant from 
Orange, Calif. "Look at what 
we've outsourced -I'm even 
outsourcing my own health for 
God sakes." 
He is fully covered under his 
wife's insurance and could have 
had total hip replacement back 
home for about $5,000 out of 
his own pocket. But it's not the 
newest procedure available 
and would have severely linrit· gery, airfares, lodging and a trip could have put a big dent in the on a metal sign, resulting in six 
ed his mobility, kept him from to the Taj Mahal totaled about family's savings. stitches. 
his passion of skydiving, and $12,000, none of which was With a wife and five kids to Still, he said the setbacks 
possibly sent him back to the covered by his insurance. consider, he said he put his faith were minor, given that his heart 
hospital in 10 years with more "I was so let down by my in God and had an angioplasty was fixed without breaking the 
problems. Thues lobbied to HMO. The whole idea that they with two stents inserted in India bank. The couple's whole trip 
undergo hip resurfacing, a new, denied me because they could," for about $10,000. ran about $16,500. 
less invasive technique he said while recovering at his ''When you first start, you're Uninsured Indianapolis chi­
approved in the U.S. this year. hotel near the airport in New not sure. You think, Wow that's ropractor John Terhune, 57, 
But he was denied. Delhi. "I've paid thousands of a long ways away.' But when didn't need any persuasion. He 
So, he and his wife, Paula, dollars in premiums over the you're faced with the other underwent hip resurfacing sur­
hopped on a plane to Delhi and years. It's their job to look after option, you want to check it gery in his left leg a year and a 
visited Dr. S.K.S. Marya, chief me." out," he said two days after half ago in the southern Indian 
surgeon at the Max Super Greg Goodell, 57, from being discharged. 'We felt com­city of Chennai and was so 
Speciality Hospital's Institute of Shenandoah, Iowa, ended up at fortable. We didn't really have pleased with the results, he 
Orthopedics & Joint the same Indian hospital as any red flags ever.'' came back to have the right hip 
Replacement, who has per­Thues. In August while bicy­But Goodell did encounter a done by Dr. Marya in New 
formed some 150 hip resurfac­cling, he felt a strange tighten­few downsides of traveling. He Delhi. And he got a partial 
ing operations over the past two ing in his chest and realized and his wife, Kriss, both experi­replacement for his left knee to 
years for about $7,000 each. something was wrong. But the enced bouts of diarrhea during boot. 
Within a few days, Thues self-employed finishing painter the trip and their luggage was Both surgeries totaled less 
was up walking and already was uninsured and knew the lost for tree days. Goodell also than $12,000 -about 85 per­
talking about his next jump price of an angiogram test had a slight mishap while walk­cent off the U.S. price tag­
from a plane in six months -alone, quoted at $4,000 to ing near Delhi's congested plus another $3,000 for travel 
the whole trip including the sur-$29,000 by nearby hospitals, roads: He sliced his head open and accommodation. 


Truck sales helped by lower gas prices 
Associated Press year. Sales of GM trucks and SUVs Overall, U.S. consumers bought just 
leaped 33.2 percent. over 1.2 million vehicles last month, a 

DETROIT -In showrooms across In fairness, the comparison figures 6.1 percent increase above October of 
the nation, consumers lured by lower were relatively easy to beat. October last year. 
gas prices started buying trucks and 2005 was dismal for GM and the other "It's a combination of the gas priCe 
sport utility vehicles again last month, major automakers, which had a hang­decline and also the increased incen­
ending -for now -a yearlong slump over from a summer of huge dis­tive spending for larger vehicles," said 
that has piled up losses at the domes­counts. Jesse Toprak, chief economist for 
tic Big Three automakers. Even so, Toyota Motor Corp., Ford Edmunds.com, a research site for car 
Chrysler, Ford and GM have been Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co. joined buyers. He said the trend toward 
struggling to match the offerings of GM in posting gains, Toyota at 9.2 per­increased truck sales is likely to con­
Asian competitors as consumer tastes cent, Ford at 8 percent and Nissan at tinue at least into January. 
have shifted toward smaller, more 3.9 percent, according to sales figures On average, the industry gave buy­
fuel-efficient vehicles. But cheaper gas released by the companies ers incentives worth $4,800 per vehi­
and automaker incentives appear to Wednesday. cle on large SUVs in October, and 
be changing the mix somewhat. Honda Motor Co. and $4,500 on large trucks, Toprak said. 
General Motors Corp. led the indus­DaimlerChrysler AG reported sales Meanwhile, small cars, which gener­
try in October with a 1 7. 3 percent declines, but all major manufacturers ate lower profits for the industry, had 
sales increase compared with last saw increased truck sales. an average incentive ofjust $700. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 
Thursday, November 2, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
Of expletives and extra points 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gortumukkala AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: JeffAlbert 
ADVEIITJSING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CoNTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFlCE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.I@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574} 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574} 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBsERVERONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either insritution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Ass.istanr Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qzmtions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiifMike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'Ihe Observtt (USPS 59? l-4000) is puhlishcd Monday through Friday ~ccpr during exam and vacation periods. A s~ption ro The Observer is $100 for one aatdemic year; $55 for Ont' semrs~er. 
The Observer is publish~ at: POSTMASTER 024 Sooth Dining Hall Send address corn::cdom w: Notte Dame, IN 46556--0779 Thc<Jb=vO< P"eriodical postage paid at Notte Dame PO. Box779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Nom Dame~ IN 46556-0n9 
The Obstrvcr hi a member ofthe Associat:M Press. All:reptoducrion rights. arc reserved. 
When my brothers and I were younger, we didn't have to watch the Chicago Bears' games. The exple­tives emanating from the living room told us far more about their perform­ance than Cris Collinsworth ever could from the broadcasting booth. 
So while the Bears played at Soldier Field, we played our own football games in our suburban Chicago backyard, arguing over whether or not my brother crossed the threshold of the end zone (marked by the imaginary line between the sand­box and the sidewalk) and kicking the extra points through our makeshift uprights -the swing set. 
Many football seasons later, I've found myself a couple hundred miles away from my old living room. Although it's impossible to hear my dad's profanity from here, I'm fairly certain that he hasn't utilized his entire lexicon of expletives this year. After all, the Bears are en route to an undefeated season -or so some say. 
Hence, each Sunday afternoon (or Monday night) victory is not seen as a victory in and of itself, but instead as one more step toward the almighty goal-the Bears' first Super Bowl title since the days of Mike Singletary, Walter Payton and Coach Ditka. 
The focus is on the "big picture." It's a common trend these days. Case in point: next week's midterm 

Liz Coffey 
The Coffey Grind 

elections. The focus is less on the issues raised by the candidates, and more on the candidates' party affilia­tions and what these will do to the composition of Congress. Perhaps most emphasized is how these elec­tions will affect future presidf-ntial prospeets -like those of Illinois Senator Barack Obama, now that he's "not not running" in 2008. It's big­picture politics. 
And what about what I'll be doing in 2007? What I'd really like to do now -in 2006 -is to live an entire day without being asked about my plans for next year. While I don't take after my father in his fondness for profanity, the constant barrage of questioning often tempts me to utter a few expletives of my own. All I want to do is to walk through the fallen leaves without being forced to wonder whether next year I'll be liv­ing in a place where trees don't even shed their leaves. 
Walking through the leaves-it's a little thing. And when we were kids, we treasured the fall foliage. We'd press leaves in between the pages of our hardcover books so that their brilliant eolor would never fade. 
But what happened to the little things'! Why do we let them fade away now? 
Henry David Thoreau wouldn't. lie said that "the little things in life are just as interesting as the big ones." I'd like to take that one step further and say that the little things arc not only just as interesting, but also just as important, as the big ones. 
Last time I checked, the current "big thing" of American politics 
(a.k.a. George W. Bush) didn't want to build a fence across our southern border with Mexico. But a majority of the "little things" (a.k.a. those con­gressmen and -women whose issues you don't care about) do, and so there will be a fence. 
And what about the Bears? Sure, they're undefeated -but because of a little thing. If Arizona Cardinals kicker Neil Rackers hadn't missed a 41-yard field goal wide left with 53 seconds to go a few Monday nights ago, neither the big scoreboard in the Cardinals' new stadium. nor the Be~rs' big picture, would look the same. 
When it comes to your future, by all means, be ambitious. I'll be rooting for you to get the job of your dreams, so that you can hang a big thing ­your framed Notre Dame diploma ­on the wall behind your desk. But hopefully you'll save some space on that wall for a collage of little things too, complete with photos of friends and a book-pressed leaf. 
And as for the Bears, I'll be rooting (without using expletives) for Brian Urlacher and company to hoist that Lombardi trophy. But you know what? Life isn't just about the Super Bowl. 
It's about those little field goal attempts too -the ones that fly wide left of the uprights and the ones that sail perfectly through the center of the backyard swing set. 
Liz Coffey is a senior American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy minor. Her column appears every other Thursday. She can be reached at ecoffey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF 

QUOTE OF THE DAY Kate Antonacci Eric Retter Maureen Mullen Chris Khorey Liz Harter Deirdre Krasula Does Halloween falling on 
News Sports OBSERVER POLL 

SubmitaLetter 
"Many an opportunity is lost because a man is out looking for 
Viewpoint Chris Wilson a Tuesday affect your 
Alyssa Scene 
plans to celebrate? 
four-leaf clovers." 

to tbe Editor at '
Brauweiler Erin McGinn 
Anonymous
Graphics 

Madeleine Nies Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Thursday, November 2, 2006 page 9 
Comforting light or silent darkness 
What happens when people die? Are the accounts of near-death experiences where the person moves toward a brilliant white light with a deep sense of peace accurate? Or is the story published last year about a man who "died" on an operating table and Richard V. reportedly spent anum­Warner ber of minutes surround­ed by darkness with "no FaithPoint encounter with God" what occurs? 
Yesterday, we celebrated the Feast of All Saints, where the Church rejoices with countless men and women who live in the presence of God, and see God "face to face." 
Today, it might seem like we remember everyone else -All Souls. Are these the people who are not saints like Mary, the apostles and martyrs and those who are "canonized," mostly popes, bishops, priests and nuns? 
As Catholics, we believe that our baptism in the name of our Trinitarian God unites us intimately and forever to Jesus Christ. And by uniting ourselves to Jesus through the saving mysteries of His passion and death, we also will share in His resurrec­tion when all human history is brought together in God's redeeming love in Jesus. 
At funeral liturgies, we acknowledge death as a mystery that is hard to fully comprehend. But we also express our belief that "for faithful believers, life is changed, not ended." The promise Jesus Christ holds out to us is that the moment of death marks our passage from this life to everlasting life. 
And so we live by faith in the face of the loss of a loved one. We trust in God's love for us. And we place our lives and our futures confidently into His hands. 
I have often been taken by the many intentions Notre Dame undergraduates give voice to in the residence hall Masses every Sunday afternoon or night. Sometimes the occasions remembered are happy ones. But as often as not, people pray for loved ones or friends who are sick or who have died. I have made it a habit to remember all of these intentions at Mass during the week. 
As we celebrate these two feasts, we are confident that millions of faithful people who have gone before us live in God's presence. Some of them, whose lives were characterized by virtue beyond the norm, are canonized. 
But many others, especially ordinary people, share their lot. 
Father Richard V. Warner, CSC, is the director ofCampus Ministry. He can be reached at rwarner@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

U-WIRE 
The audacity of 
Senator Obama 
Twelve hours is a long wait to have a book signed. But three friends spent Friday night on an Fred Austin, Texas, street Afflerbach corner hoping to be first in line to have Texas State 
U.S. Sen. Barack University ­Obama autograph a San Marcos copy of his book, The The University Audacity of Hope. Star 
When I arrived at the 2006 Texas Book Festival at the state capitol Saturday morning, people waiting for Obama were lined up for several blocks. Sitting in lawn chairs, wrapped in blankets, some had been waiting since 5 a.m. 
I rubbed my eyes in disbelief. Didn't the Rolling Stones play Austin last week? The audacity of an Illinois sen­ator coming down here to our book festival and stealing the show. 
What is it about this relative new­comer to the national political stage that galvanizes people? 
Those waiting in line on this chilly October morning told me he was pres­idential, charismatic, a good family man, concerned and connected. And it didn't hurt that he was a hit on The Oprah Winfrey Show. 
Still, I had to see for myself. The 500-seat House Chamber was full, but I slipped in and stood near the upstairs rear door. The Texas State Capitol, site of much rancor the last few years, seemed to take a deep breath and exhale. 
Obama spoke about the significance of the title of his book, The Audacity of Hope. He said it's easy to be over­whelmed by all the problems in the world-war, poverty, genocide. It's easy to accept that there is little one person can accomplish on a global scale. To hope, to believe, to aspire for such ideals as world peace and harmony can be deemed naive, even audacious. However, if that's labeled audacious, too bad. 
But don't mistake audacious for ostentatious. The senator's voice proj­ects and the audience Saturday often interrupted him with applause, yet he is soft-spoken. He mixes a gentle demeanor with a command of lan­guage that is uncommon today. 
In this divisive political age, where it's red versus blue, you're either with us or against us and if you speak out about bringing home troops from Iraq, you're accused of cutting and running, it is refreshing to have someone reach out for common ground. 
"Our country is not as divided as our politicians suggest," Obama said. "We have a set of common values and ideals that bind us together." 
Obama's life truly reflects America's diversity. His father is from Kenya, his mother from Kansas. They met in Hawaii, where he was born, but divorced when Obama was two. He lived with his grandparents for a while and attended school both on the West Coast at Occidental College and the East Coast at Harvard. He now lives in the Midwest. 
Until a few weeks ago, Obama said he wasn't interested in running for president. But recently on national television, he said he may change his mind. Obama's supporters might have to wait another year to see if he'll run, and a year more to see if he wins. Maybe 12 hours wasn't that long after all. 
This column originally appeared in the Nov. 1 issue of The University Star, the daily publication at Texas State University-San Marcos. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Catholics advocating for gay rights 
With only days before the elec­tion, a desperate President is using a wide range of divisive tactics to scare and confuse vot­ers. Most recently, President George W. Bush stopped through Georgia giving last minute stump speeches. When his rhet­oric of fear wasn't working, the President pulled an all-too-com­mon trick out of his bag: attack gays and lesbians in the hopes of courting voters. Why should we care as a Notre Dame com­munity? Because it's time that Catholics stand up for families and reject this ongoing cam­paign of divisiveness and hate. 
All too reminiscent of the seg­regated 1950s, the President is using wedge issues and attack­ing a large segment of Americans to appeal to his base. However, using biblical scripture to justify discrimination and religion to rationalize bigotry only mocks the faith of millions. Americans, of all religions, races and sexual orientations, deserve better. Here in Virginia, many politicians are strategically try­ing to mislead voters on the so­called "marriage amendment," an amendment that goes far beyond same-sex marriage and civil unions. But a recent poll found that most Virginia Catholics are against the amendment and don't believe the undermining of families and writing hate into the constitu­tion is morally right. Virginia Catholics rightly realize that marginalizing minorities and supporting policies of inequality rip at the moral fiber of this country. 
It is time for all Catholics to reject the deafening rhetoric Of bigotry and stand up for the moral dignity and rights of all Americans. Maybe then, this campaign and the agenda of our leaders might return to the more important issues of unin­sured children, global warming and the faltering economy. 
Ken Seifert alumnus class of2003 Nov. I 

Women, students deserve apology 
These may sound like harsh words, but I can find no better way to say it: Professor Emeritus Charles Rice's recent column on Plan B ("Implications of Plan B availability," Oct. 31) shows both a gross disrespect for women and a gross disre­spect for his audience. 
Early in his groundbreaking book "After Virtue," Notre Dame's own Alisdair Macintyre bemoans our culture's pervasive inability to distinguish between what he calls "manipulative" and "non-manipulative" social relations. 
As I understand this distinc­tion, non-manipulative relations -in the context of a newspaper column -show a deep respect for the intelligence of one's readers, and present them with persuasive, rational arguments without distorting or oversim­plifying the issue. Manipulative relations, on the other hand, propagandize and use emotional rhetoric, treating one's audi­ence not as intelligent persons to be persuaded with rational argumentation but sheep to be manipulated. 
Sadly, it seems clear that Rice has chosen to relate to his audi­ence in a manipulative way, ignoring the research showing Plan B (and hormonal contra­ceptives in general) work only by preventing ovulation; no evi­dence has ever been gathered to support his contention that Plan B prevents implantation of an already-fertilized egg. Indeed, since implantation takes place a week or more after intercourse, if Plan B was successful in pre­venting implantation, we would expect it to be effective far longer than the well-established 72-hour window. I think I need not add that the final four para­graphs do not give an argument against Plan B, but are instead nothing more than a slander against advocates of access to emergency contraception. There is nothing inconsistent about advocating for access to emer­gency contraception and con­demning brutal school shootings or infanticide. 
In these ways, Rice has over­simplified the issue, and manip­ulated his audience into associ­ating Plan B with horrifying crimes. Rice's caricature of sex as something men entice from women or something women deny them access to also shows further disrespect, for women's sexual agency. 
Women are not just objects of sexual desire, sitting around passively waiting for men to conquer them, and feminists ­including some deeply Catholic theologians -have argued for decades that this view of human sexuality is perverse and unjust. Whatever else one thinks of abortion and contraception, to see them as means men use to "trick" women into having sex is to see women as incapable of having desires, interests or tak­ing action on their own. 
On behalf of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community as a whole, I would ask Rice to apologize for his column. I can­not speak for the women of our community, but I would encour­age him to apologize to them as well. 
Dan Hicks graduate student philosophy Nov. I 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE

page 10 Thursday, November 2, 2006 
DVD REVIEWS 
Crosby and Astaire shine bright in 'Holiday Inn' 

'Amarcord' given star treatment in new release 
Nino Rota's ("8 1/2," "The Godfather") fantastic score and a wry sense of humor that punctuates the narrative. 
Most of Fellini's post-"La Dolce Vita" work moved away from realist tenden­cies, but "Amarcord" scales back some­what, giving the film an appealing dreamlike quality. "Amarcord" is a film about remembrance, which makes it a deeply personal film for its director. While it may not be quite as strong a picture as some of Fellini's previous work, "Amarcord" is equally -if not more -entertaining than even his best films. All of the director's bHst lilrns say something about the human condition, but rarely has that condition been so close to Fellini himself. 
The film is in Italian, but, as with most Italian films of the time, it was shot silently and dubbed later -this is why the mouths sometimes do not appear to be in sync with the words, even in the Italian track. The subtitles, as expeetnd from Criterion, are very good, though it is not unlikely a few choice Italian phrases (most of them vulgar) were lost in translation. 
The DVD itself is fantastic. 
"Amarcord." with a 

spine number or four, was one of the earliest Criterion releases, but has been reissued in a brand new two-disc edition. Picture quality is outstand­ing, especially con­sidering that the film is more than 30 years old, restored in a high-

By CASSIE BELEK Assistant Scene Editor 
The magic and on-screen chemistry between crooner Bing Crosby and dancer Fred Astaire establishes 1942's "Holiday Inn" as one of the great holiday films of classic Hollywood and more magnificent even than Crosby's 1954 holiday classic "White Christmas." Although the black-and­white "Holiday Inn" is sometimes not as well known as the latter movie -especially among younger audiences -it features the first on-screen performance of Irving Berlin's pop sensation "White Christmas," and it dazzles with one of the greatest dance performances of Astaire's career. 
"White Christmas," often characterized as a Christmas movie, happens to feature all the holidays of the year. When famous singer Jim Hardy (Crosby) tires of endlessly performing, he leaves his act partner Ted Hanover (Astaire) -who also steals his fiancee -and opens an inn in Connecticut. Instead of only getting holidays off like in his entertainment career, Jim decides that his inn will only be open on holidays and each holiday will bring a spectacular, themed floor show. Jim hires flower shop girl Linda Mason (Marjorie Reynolds) to headline the 
Holiday Inn 
Special Edition 
Universal Studios 


By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 
In the liner notes to the new Criterion edition of Federico Fellini's "Amarcord," film professor Sam Rohdie notes that the title derives from the dialect phrase "mi recordo" ("I remember"), an explanation that sheds a lot of light on the classic 1974 Italian film. "Amarcord" is a film about memory, an impressionistic por­trait that purposely (and purposefully) eschews realism in favor of nostalgia. As warmly affectionate as anything ever committed to celluloid, "Amarcord" remains one of the director's finest clas­sics and one of his most enjoyable late period films, now reissued and hand­somely packaged by Criterion. 
"Amarcord" is a portrait of the Italian village Rimini over the course of four seasons, with Titta (Bruno Zanin) and Titta's family as the main focus. The lilm is episodic, with various characters weaving their way in and out of the nar­rative. Fellini's affectionate, sometimes bawdy portrayals make "Amarcord" one of his most fast-paced films, bolstered by 
Amarcord 
2-disc Special Edition 
Criterion 


shows and, after falling in love with her, struggles to keep Ted from whisking away yet another girl in order to secure a stable dancing partner. 
The romance of Jim and Linda remains secondary in the film as the real couple emerges as Crosby and A<>tairn. In addition to their skills in song and dance, the two have undeniable comedic talent. Even though Astaire portrays a scoundrel who continues to steal loves away from best friend Jim, it is impossible to hate any char­actHr hH may portray. ThH two Hfl"ortlessly interact with Bach othHr as perfm;t eomedic and professional foils. 
A<>taire's highlight occurs on the evening of the Independence Day show. After linda becomes "sidHtracked" and hH is left with­out a dancing partner, Ted improvises a tap performance using an array of firecrackers and explosives. The result is a rapid-fire, rhythmically perfect dance that comes from the genius of AstairH's mind and took 38 takes to pHrfect. 
The musical climax of the film actually arrives in the first half. Just before New Year's, Jim and Linda sit at the piano, warmed by a crackling fire in the dark, when Jim decides to sing a new Christmas song he has been writing. The song that melodiously floats through Crosby's 
sonorous voice is 
none other than 

Berlin's "White f#W#i*#W¥¥#1•·• i 
Christmas" -a 
bl~l)~lttYotlr'<' .. ~·1'11:lftl>.01"ll(t 
song that has
Hoi:rDAYINN 
become one of the best-selling singles of all time and one that offered particu­lar comfort to the men and women in uniform during World War II. 
Not even Berlin, who composed all the music lor the classic movie, expected the song to gain the popu­larity that it did. I le believed that the most popular song of the movie would be "Be Careful, It's My Heart." While that song did sell a great number of records, the wartime environment skyrocketed "White Christmas" to its fame. 

This bit of trivia and more can be found in the newly remastered "Holiday Inn" IND. Ken Barnes, film historian and friend of Crosby and A<>tairo, provides tho commen­tary that is paired with archive audio com­ment.•.; from the talented duo. Barnes thor­oughly explains the black-face numbnr and its surrounding controversy and reveals that in order to look believably drunk in one dance scene, Astaire actually did become drunk. Even when intoxicated, however, he never misses a beat. 
Other special features on the DVD includH a featurette, "A Couple of Song and Dance Men," which features a conversation betweHn Astaire's daughter and Barnes interspersed with clips from Astaire's and Crosby's movies. Also included is a behind­the-scenes look at the song and dance num­bers from the movie. 
"Holiday Inn" can be enjoyed year round, but because of the song "White Christmas," it is especially touching during the winter holiday season. Crosby and Astaire reunited on screen only once more in 1946's "Blue Skies," but this initial pairing is the most memorable. Crosby sings from the soul and Astaire dances like a dream. Apart, they are Hollywood legends, but together they are iconic. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
Photo courtesy Inhabitants of Mussolini-era Rimini stroll through the town's square in Federico Fellini's 1973 classic "Amarcord," which has been re-issued by Criterion. 
definition digital transfer that is a notieeablo stop up from earlier versions. The lirst disc also features audio com­mentary by film scholars Peter Brunette and Frank Burke as well as a dubbnd English traek, though the original Italian is preforablo. 
The socond disc contains most of the extras, with a 45-minute doeumontary, "Fellini's Homecoming," as the center­piece. A fascinating examination of the director and his hometown, "Fellini's Homecoming" is bolstered by the pres­ence of other extra material, including a video interview with Magali Noel and some audio interviews. The DVDs come housed in an attractive foldout card­board case, which also contains a 63­page booklet that reprints the 1967 Fellini-penned essay "My Bimini." 
"Amarcord" is perhaps the most con­sistently engaging film in Fellini's oeu­vre, which is no small task coming from the director of "La Uolee Vita" and "8 1/2." Winner of the 1974 Academy Award for Best Foreign Feature, it remains a classic and one of the direc­tor's most personal films. Though the original Criterion single-disc was quite good, the re-release is a considerable upgrade. "Amarcord" is a treat for any­one remotely interested in Italian cine­ma and comes highly recommended. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, November 2, 2006 
page 11 
DVD REVIEW 
Impossibly great results in latest 'Mission' 
By SEAN SWEANY Asistant Scene Editor 
The mission given to hit television show "Lost" co-creator J.J. Abrams ­should he choose to accept it -was to take an aging and unpopular movie franchise headlined by a controversial Hollywood star and revitalize it for the modern film audience. 
Abrams accepted the mission and completed it with stunning results, creating "Mission: Impossible III" (M:I III), a film that grossed almost $400 million worldwide and was recently released on DVD. Not only was "M:I III" a commercial success, but it was less stylized and dramatic than John Woo's adaptation and less confusing than Brian DePalma's original film. 
"M:I III" continues the saga of IMF agent Ethan Hunt (Tom Cruise), who has retired from impossible missions to spend time with his fiancee Julia (Michelle Monaghan, "Kiss Kiss Bang Bang"). Hunt is forced out of retire­ment to help an old colleague and save the world from evil mastermind Owen Davian (Philip Seymour Hoffman, "Capote") while keeping 
Mission: Impossible m 
2 Disc Collector's Edition 
Paramount Home Video 


Ray. 

This multi-format release is intend­ed to allow fans to purchase as many special features as they would like. Out of the various choices, the special edition is well worth the money of both casual and ardent fans. Unlike often boring director commentaries, the conversation between Abrams and Cruise is fun and revealing. The inclu­sion of such an entertaining and engaging commentary is a sign that creators took great care in putting together such an outstanding DVD, notwithstanding the other special fea­tures. 
Several "Making Of' featurettes give insight into virtually every aspect of production and do an excellent job of maintaining the excitement and ener­gy of the film. Especially interesting is the "Mission: Metamorphosis" feature, which details the complexities of cre­ation and filming of the latex masks various characters wear throughout the film. 
With such excellent special features combined with a well-made and exhil­arating film, "M:I III" is one of the bet­ter DVD releases of the year. The film itself stands far above the second "Mission: Impossible" movie and comes close to rivaling the first in terms of its storytelling and tone. Just as Abrams took on the mission of res­urrecting the "M:I" franchise, so should film fans accept the mission of purchasing and enjoying the "M:I III" DVD. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 

RESTAURANT REVIEW 
Local restaurant just what the 'Doctor' ordered 
Doc Pierce's
for the average excellent -prompt, Notre Dame stu­
attentive and dent, that's where knowledgeable. the dining adven­While the restau­ture ends, leaving rant was mostly out many savory Location: 120 N. Main Street, Mishawaka empty on a Monday gems found in the Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 11 a.m.-9:30p.m., Fri.­night, it often gets Michiana area. Sat. 11 a.m.-10:30 p.m., Sun. 4 p.m.-9p.m. crowded on the 
The food is quite good, although it's really not much different than what's found at most eateries of this kind. At the very least, however, Doc Pierce's is a step above chain restaurants, and since the prices are comparable, it is an attractive choice for hungry families and 
students alike. 
The service was 

By BRIAN DOXTADER and ERIN McGINN Scene Critics 
Everyone is familiar with the chain franchises located on both Grape and Main Rds. in Mishawaka. But Julia in the dark. 
While the plot in "M:I III" offers no more or less than the previous two films, the storytelling is clearer and more intelligent. Abrams' script keeps the action coming while providing just enough slower moments of character development to allow the audience to catch its breath. 
Directorially, Abrams does an excel­lent job of shooting the four main action scenes and maintains a slick feel throughout the film. He also deserves credit for managing Cruise ­recently plagued with controversy and popular distaste -and preventing "M:I III" from becoming "The Tom Cruise Movie." 
Cruise's performance is actually bet­ter than much of his recent fare and points back to his "Jerry Maguire" days when he appeared to enjoy act­ing. The film's supporting cast mem­bers do a wonderful job, most notably Philip Seymour Hoffman, who devil­ishly plays the maniacal madman. Laurence Fishburne ("The Matrix") and Billy Crudup ("Big Fish") also give memorable performances as IMF lead­ers. 
"Mission: Impossible III" is one of the first major films to be released on sever­al DVD formats at the same time. The movie is available as a one­disc standard edi­tion, two-disc spe­cial edition or col­lector's box set. The special edi­tion comes either on regular DVD, HD-DVD or Blu 

One of these Price Range: $6 -$20 treasures can be found simply by continuing south on Main Street into downtown Mishawaka. Doc Pierce's restaurant, located on 120 N. Main Street, Mishawaka, offers casual but classy dining at reasonable prices. The food is pretty standard fare. The usual assortment of chicken, salads, steaks and burgers are available, but with clever medical-based names like "the intern" (beef in mushroom sauce) and "chicken M.D." (chicken in teriyaki sauce). Meals come in two forms ­"over the counter" (baskets) and "full prescriptions" (entrees). The baskets include only fries, and prices range from about $6 to $9. Entrees include salad, bread, and choice of baked potato, French fries, coleslaw, rice or vegeta­bles, priced between $10 and $20. 
weekends and 
sometimes requires 

reservations. While a bit farther than restaurants on Grape Road -about a 20-minute drive from campus-Doc Pierce's is well worth the extra effort and a particularly good choice on football weekends. 
The atmosphere is one of the main draws. With an antique bar and all wood decor, the restaurant has a very classy and inviting feel. The dominating features, however, are the more than 60 Tiffany-style lamps and backlit stained glass windows that hang in every avail­able free space. And if one of the lamps or windows happens to strike a diner's fancy, they are all available for pur­chase. 
Doc Pierce's is a good place for a wide range of people and occasions, from family dinners to first dates. There is an assortment of booths and tables, although the booths offer more privacy. Speakers pipe classic rock and country, giving the restaurant a laid-back and welcoming feel. With seating areas on both the first and second floor, as well as a full-service bar, it serves a wide-range of patrons. 

Doc Pierce's is a good destination for those seeking a relaxed restaurant that isn't too far from campus, but offers something different than standard chain restaurant fare. The eatery offers good food at acceptable prices -especially for college students without a lot of dis­posable income. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu and Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, November 2, 2006 
NBA 
Revived Sixers defense dominates Hawks 
Orlando and Indiana open seasons strong; Magic upsets Chicago Bulls, O'Neil leads Indiana to victory over Charlotte 
Associated Press The Hawks chipped away and 
pulled to 81-71 late in the fourth 
PHILADELPHIA -Allen on Childress' jumper. The Sixers Iverson spent his summer wor­handed Atlanta more opportuni­rying Philadelphia would trade ties, on a shot clock violation, him. and missed shots by Iverson and 
Instead, he was back with the Webber on the same possession, 76ers for another opener. But but the Hawks went cold down with livelier defense and more the stretch and didn't convert confidence down the stretch, it either of those chances. seemed to Iverson as if he was Not surprising. They are the with a whole new team. Hawks. 
Iverson scored 32 points and Webber then hit a 1 7-footer Andre Iguodala had 15 to lead and Dalembert dunked. The the 76ers over the Atlanta lead was back to 15 and the Hawks 88-75 on Wednesday Sixers were back on their way. night. "I think we used up too much 
Samuel Dalembert had 11 energy to get it to 10," Childress points and 11 rebounds, and said. "It's frustrating because it Chris Webber grabbed 13 was the first game of the season rebounds for the Sixers, who and we came out flat." improved their mark on opening Defense was a training camp night to 39-19. priority for the Sixers after pret­
"If you play great defense, you ty much blowing a playoff spot get a chance to make your because they couldn't play any offense better," Iverson said. last season. The results were "That's how we'll get better, by promising: Philadelphia held the playing defense. If we can Hawks to 33 percent shooting rebound the basketball, I don't and outrebounded them 47-42. think nobody can deal with us." "It's the first game, you 
Joe Johnson led the Hawks know?" Webber said, his twin­with 25 points, ann Zaza kle, if not his shooting (4-for-16), Pachulia and Josh Childress in midseason form. "We'll see each had 15. Atlanta lost its how it goes after that." eighth straight opener. Having an early cushion cer­
Maybe the Sixers didn't have tainly helped the Sixers survive to change their roster to be a the late run. better team after all. 
With nearly the entire roster Orlando 109, Chicago 94 back from a team that missed Orlando Magic coach Brian the playoffs for the second time Hill thought his team had no in three seasons and had no sig­chance against the Bulls nificant additions, not much was Wednesday night after watching expected this season from the Chicago rout the defending Ben Gordon flashed a dazzling tive trips in 1:17. The spurtgave the Bobcats since Michael Sixers. champion Miami Heat to open array of reverse layups, drives Orlando an 80-55 lead before Jordan became a part owner 
And with the Eagles under­the season. and fadeaway jumpers on his Malik Allen turned in a three­with the final say on all person­achieving and the Flyers shaking "They just drove the ball way to 24 points that kept point play with 4:31 left in the nel decisions. But Jordan spent up their personnel, there was everywhere they wanted to go," Chicago in the game -barely. quarter. the entire game in a suite and little buzz for the Sixers opener, Hill said. Kirk Hinrich had 14 points and was never introduced to the translating into plenty of empty Hill was happy to be wrong. four assists and Luol Deng Indiana 106, Charlotte 99 crowd. seats, especially in the upper Dwight Howard had 27 points scored 12 for the Bulls. Jermaine O'Neal and Sarunas The Pacers, trying to move to deck. and 11 rebounds and Jameer Grant Hill had 19 points on 5-Jasikevicius scored 20 points an up-tempo offense, took their 
The Sixers led by as many as Nelson scored 21 points as the of-7 shooting and Hedo Turkoglu apiece and the Indiana Pacers first lead on Jeff Foster's layup 23 late in the third quarter and Magic surprised the Chicago had 11 points, seven rebounds pulled away in the fourth quar­midway through the third quar­were poised to turn this one into Bulls Wednesday night in and six assists. ter to win their season opener, ter. They led by as many as 14 in a blowout until the familiar Orlando's season opener. "This is obviously a real good over the Charlotte Bobcats on the fourth, overcoming 41 per­problem of wasting large leads The Bulls beat the Heat by 42 way for us to start the season Wednesday night. cent shooting. happened again. points the night before, but against what I think is an excel­Stephen Jackson added 18 Morrison, the No. 3 pick in the 
In last season's opener, the couldn't find their stroke lent basketball team," Brian Hill points to help the Pacers spoil draft, entered midway through Sixers squandered a late double­Wednesday. Howard took con­said. the NBA debut of Bobcats rookie the first quarter and hit his first digit lead in the final minutes trol, grabbing lobs in the low Orlando trailed only once -Adam Morrison, who scored 14. shot, a leaner along the left and lost in overtime, setting the post on fronting defenders and by a point-in the game's open­Emeka Okafor had 19 points, baseline. Morrison's liability ­tone for a familiar pattern the running the baseline for back­ing minute. They won despite 13 rebounds and a team record­defense -showed itself early as rest of the year. Not this time. door dunks. committing 23 turnovers to tying six blocks for the Bobcats, he picked up two fouls trying to 
"After last year's first game, "Dwight's going to be one of Chicago's 15, outshooting the who lost Gerald Wallace in the guard Jackson. this is a step in the right direc­those guys in this league that Bulls 59 percent to 45 percent second quarter to dizziness, Morrison, who shot 5-for-13, tion," coach Maurice Cheeks are going to make it hard, make from the field. neck and back injuries after he brought fans to their feet at the said. it tough for anyone who comes Nelson keyed a 13-2 Magic hit his head on the floor follow­end of the first quarter. Catching 
But not before the Sixers took into this building to get a win," run in the third quarter with a ing a flagrant foul by Danny an inbounds pass deep on the a brief detour toward a more Bulls center Ben Wallace said of jumper, layup and 3-pointer, Granger. left side, he spun around and troubling direction. the third-year player. scoring seven points on consccu-It marked the first game for drained a 41-foot shot. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
New Student Housing! 5 bed, 1.5 3 bdrm home for ND home games. FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do bath, new appliances,2 car garage, Close to ND. 574-288-9366. ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232-not go it alone. If you or someone WANTED FoR RENT 1 mile from campus. Available now! 2378. you love needs confidential support 
$250-300/Person/Month. Call Rooms for rent for football week-or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Need nanny for 3 girls (3,4&5) BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam-(574)360-8980. ends. Close to campus. Travel with STS to this years top 10 Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more 10-15 hrs/wk.-3 days/wk. $15/hr. pus homes & weekend rentals. Call 574-243-0658. Spring Break destinations! Best information, see our bi-weekly ad in Light cleaning, cooking & pick up at Bluegoldrentals.com House Available for 07-08 Year. deals guaranteed! Highest rep com-The Observer. school. Ref. necessary. Call Close to Campus. Just Renovated missions. Visit www.ststravel.com Michelle 574-383-3322. RV ND home games. to Brand New Condition. Open to TICKETS Or call 1-800-648-4849. Spring Break 2007 Celebration. 
Sleeps 6-8. Transportation, tailgat-groups of 9-11 Students. Contact Great group discounts. 20th Anniversary w/Sun Splash ing & lodging. 574-243-5547. MacSwain@gmail.com WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251-Tours. Free trip on every 12 before 1570 Need NC football tix. Will pay face. Nov. 1. Free Meals & Part1es,
FoR SALE 
45 minutes from Notre Dame Furnished horne for responsible Call 574-276-8507. Hottest Deals Ever. Group Stadium. $125.00/night. Year round family. Walk to ND. Dec.-May. Cell FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232-Discounts on 6 or more. Hottest 3-4 bdrm horne, 1.5 BA, 2 rni.N of cabins sleep six. Call Lumberjack 561-596-0194. 0964 Spring Break Destinations. 1800­
ND. 2-stall garage. 4 lots. Resort 269-646-2181. 426-7710.
PERSONAL 
$101 ,000. 52420 RENT-Furnished 1 bedroom WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. www.sunsplashtours.com Forestbrook. HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6 Jamison condo Nov-May 07. Call TOP DOLLAR PAID. ATTORNEY Lyn Leone available. Call Terry 574-289-5630 Bedrooms Mary Anne Benedict@ 607-723-NOBODY WILL PAY MORE. 574-Underage consumption, DWI. 574-Wear your jacket. Or Ron 277-4122. www.NDstudentrentals.com 7363 or 607-770-0944. 288-2726. 272-1968. Its cold, yup cold. 

OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, November 2, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 

around the dial 
TODAY 
NBA 
San Antonio at Dallas 8 p.m., TNT 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
West Virginia at Louisville 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA FooTBALL 


Associated Press EAST LANSING, Mich. ­John L. Smith will not return next year as Michigan State's football coach but will complete the rest of this season, with the Spartans strug­gling again in the Big Ten. Smith is in the fourth year of a six-year contract that pays him about $1.5 million annually. "The performance on the field has not lived up to what we hoped it would be," athletic director Ron Mason said during a new conference Wednesday. "It comes time to make a change, and that's where we're at." 

Just two weeks ago, the Spartans pulled off the greatest comeback in Division 1-A history by ral­lying from 35 points down to beat Northwestern 41­
38. But typical of Michigan State's inconsistency under Smith, the Spartans (4-5) lost 46-21 at Indiana last Saturday to fall to 1-4 in the Big Ten. They play Purdue Saturday. 
Smith has been under pressure at Michigan State. School officials gave him a vote of confidence after last season's losing campaign, but were look­ing for better results in 2006. 
Mason and university 
president Lou Anna Simon said they reached the decision to make a change on Tuesday. Mason met with Smith on Wednesday, and the coach agreed to stay on the rest of the sea­son. 
Smith was expected to meet with the players before Wednesday after­noon's practice. 
Part of the reason behind the timing of the announcement was so Michigan State can search for a new coach with transparency, Mason said. 
Smith did not immedi­ately return a message. Smith is 22-23 record in four seasons at Michigan 
State. He led the Spartans to the Alamo Bowl in his first season, but the team did not qualify for a bowl in 2004 or 2005. 
The decision comes nearly four years to the day after Michigan State fired Bobby Williams with three games left in a sea­son that was disappointing on and off the field. 
Smith has a 132-83 record in 18 seasons as a college head coach. 
He was hired at Michigan State after hav­ing solid success at Louisville, where he went 41-21 and made five con­secutive bowl trips from 1998-2002. 
IN BRIEF 
Johnson targets Lewis in this weekend's game 
OWINGS MILLS, Md. -Chad Johnson issued a friendly warning to Ray Lewis on Wednesday, joking that when he faces the Baltimore Ravens linebacker Sunday he will "hit him in the mouth." 
Johnson has 36 catches and two touchdowns for the Cincinnati Bengals, who need a victory in Baltimore to avoid falling two games behind the first-place Ravens in the AFC North. 
Before each game, Johnson says he makes a list of players he plans to beat. 
"Chris and Samari have made the list before and haven't been able to do the job," Johnson said. "So, I'm going to go ahead and move up in the ranks." 
Johnson settled on Lewis, a seven­time Pro Bowler, two-time Defensive Player of the Year and captain of the defense. 

Pitcher Mota suspendedfor drug violation 
NEW YORK -Reliever Guillermo Mota was suspended for 50 games Wednesday after testing positive for a performance-enhancing sub­stance, becoming the third player penalized this year for violating Major League Baseball's toughened drug policy. 
In announcing the suspension, the commissioner's office did not say why Mota was suspended. 
Mota, who gave up a tying two-run triple to Scott Spiezio in the seventh inning of Game 2 of the NL champi­onship series, filed for free age~cy Monday. 
"I have no one to blame but myself," Mota said in a statement that did not explain how he ran afoul of baseball's drug rules. "I take full responsibility for my actions and accept MLB's suspension. I used extremely poor judgment and deserve to be held accountable." 
Gordon fined for caution during Sunday's race 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -NASCAR penalized Robby Gordon on Wednesday for intentionally causing a caution at Atlanta Motor Speedway that affected the race outcome for championship con­tender Jeff Burton. 
Gordon, who owns his own race team, was docked 50 driver points and 50 car owner points, and fined $15,000 for throwing a piece of roll bar padding onto the track during Sunday's race at Atlanta. The debris caused NASCAR to call a caution, which helped Gordon to his lOth­place finish but hurt Burton's final result. 
NASCAR reviewed NBC's coverage from Sunday's race to determine if Gordon in fact threw debris onto the track. The footage provided two clear angles, and officials followed up with a re-inspection of Gordon's car. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 2, 2006 
NHL 

Hurricanes top Thrashers with help from Ward 
Jose Theodore makes 19 saves from the net in third period to help Avalanche clinch 5-3 victory over Blue Jackets 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Cam Ward flopped all over the ice, blocking nearly every shot that came his way. 
Then there was Kari Lehtonen, who had trouble stop­ping anything. 
Talk about a contrast in the nets. 
Ward made 40 saves for Carolina, while Lehtonen was yanked in the second period of the Hurricanes' 5-2 win over the Atlanta Thrashers on Wednesday night. The Atlanta goalie stopped only nine of 13 shots. 
Carolina managed to win rather easily despite getting out­shot 42-18. Ray Whitney and Rod Brind'Amour scored two goals apiece, but the unques­tioned star was in goal. 
"Cam made some really tough saves," coach Peter Laviolette said. "A lot of them seemed headed for the net, but all sud­den there was a toe, a pad, a shoulder to get in the way. He was extremely sharp, extremely focused." 
Whitney's second goal gave Carolina a 4-1 lead and prompt­ed Thrashers coach Bob Hartley to yank Lehtonen with 4:51 left in the second period. 
"This game was definitely played in the nets," Hartley said. "Cam Ward was the best player on the ice." 
Johan Hedberg went the rest of the way in the Atlanta nets and was barely tested, facing just four shots while Ward was sprawling all over the ice at the other end. 
"When you make some saves, especially early, it always helps," said Ward, the unlikely star of Carolina's run to the Stanley Cup championship last season. "I knew I had to get bet­ter at stopping the first five shots so we wouldn't get down early. I felt relaxed. I felt calm. Anytime you feel like that, you know it's going to be a good night." 

Ward blocked the first five and just kept right on going. 
Marian Hossa picked up his NHL-leading 11th goal and SOOth career point on a power play but could have a much big­ger game if not for Ward. Atlanta's top scorer had a career-high 16 shots on goal ­nearly as many as the Hurricanes' entire team and six more than his previous best. 
Ilya Kovalchuk redirected a shot from the point early in the third but Ward still managed to smother it, prompting Kovalchuk to look toward the roof in disgust. 
The Thrashers went 1-for-10 on the power play, failing to con­vert a lengthy two-man advan­tage late in the second. 
"The power play was playing like five individuals and not a five-man unit," Atlanta's Greg de Vries said. 
Carolina has won all three meetings between the Southeast Division rivals this season. The first two were much closer, with Carolina winning 4-3 on a goal in the last second of regulation, then prevailing 5-4 in overtime. 
This time, the Hurricanes did­n't need a dramatic goal at the end. Their top line of Whitney, Brind'Amour and Erik Cole was especially dominant, accounting for all but one of the goals. 

Colorado 5, Columbus 3 

The Colorado Avalanche got off to a strong start and Jose Theodore was there to linish it ofT. 
Theodore made 19 of his 41 saves in the third period to help the Avalanche hold on for a vic­tory over the Columbus Blue Jackets on Wednesday night. 
"I knew they were going to 

.. Coffee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, November 7 7:30-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Cure Council for Gay ar.d Lesh1an Students invites gay, lesb1an, and bisa~ual members uf the Nntre Dame family, tneit friends, and Stlpporters to an in!armal cottee at the CtrMn. 

Coffee and refreshments will be served 

CORE COUNCil 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN
STUDENTS 

shoot from everywhere and that's what they did," Theodore said of the Blue Jackets, which entered tied for the league low with 19 goals and fell behind 4-1 in the second period. "It was obviously a lot of work, but we didn't panic and got the job done." 
Wojtek Wolski, Brett McLean, Joe Sakic, Mark Rycroft and Brad Richardson scored for Colorado, which has won five of its last seven. The Avalanche are 18-1-2 all-time against Columbus. 
"We have balance in our lines," Colorado coach Joel Quenneville said. "We feel that everybody can score and tonight we did have everybody on the score sheet." 
Sergei Fedorov, Fredrik Modin and David Vyborny scored for Columbus, which has won once in its last seven games. 
"We had probably our best offensive game of the season with scoring chances and put­ting a lot of shots on net," Blue Jackets coach Gerard Gallant said. "But every time we made a mistake it ended up in the back of the net." 
Modin scored a power-play goal from the low slot at 18:50 in the second to cut it to 4-1. Vyborny made it 4-3 at 14:21 of the third, skating down the right wing and snapping home a cross ice pass from Modin. 
But Richardson stole the puck from Rick Nash at the Columbus blue line and skated in alone before lifting a shot over Pascal Leclaire just 27 seconds later to give Colorado a two-goal advan­tage. 
"I was just trying to play good defensive hockey, but he tried to make a move and fumbled it a bit," Richardson said. "Luckily I grabbed it from him. I went in, saw a hole and shot for it." 
The Avalanche weathered sev­eral short-handed situations in the final period, including a 5­on-3 and a 6-on-3. 
"Jose was great," Quenneville said. "He had a lot of stuff around the net. He found pucks through traffic. Generally, if you're successful killing penal-
AP 
ties the goalie is going to lead the way and he did." 
Detroit 3, Calgary 2 
The Detroit Red Wings got two quick goals and then held off Calgary with some suffocating defense. 
Johan Franzen and Tomas Holmstrom scored 79 seconds apart in the first period, and Detroit stifled the Flames' offense in a victory Wednesday night. 
Dominik Hasek made 13 saves and Brett Lebda also scored for the Red Wings, who won their fourth straight after losing the final three games of a four-game trip to the West Coast. 
"Since we got back from the West Coast, the guys have dug in," coach Mike Babcock said. "I think it's evident in how we play." 
Dion Phaneuf and Andrew Ference got the goals for Calgary, which lost its third in a row. Miikka Kiprusoff stopped 31 shots for the Flames, who have been outscored 14-6 in the first period this season. 
"The first is where we're get­ting ourselves in trouble," Jarome Iginla said. 
Franzen opened the scoring with a goal from the right circle 
4:29 into the game. Chris Chelios gotthe puck to him after a turnover in the Calgary zone by Jeff Friesen. 
"I got a pass right in the mid­dle of the slot," Franzen said, "and got off a pretty good shot." 
Holmstrom's power-play goal made it 2-0 just 1:19 later, when he put in Jason Williams' rebound off the goal post for his fourth tally of the season. 
Holmstrom has three goals and two assists in his last three games. 
The Flames got on the board on Phaneuf's power-play goal with 7:31 remaining in the first period. His one-time slap shot from the point beat Hasek through traffic. 
Lebda added his goal with 
8:36 remaining as he completed a solo rush from his own blue line with a wrist shot from the right circle that beat Kiprusoff. 

Thursday, November 2, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Big East gears up for national spotlight 
No. 3 West Virginia takes on No. 5 Louisville; Slanton and White head up Mountaineers powerful back field 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -West Virginia and Louisville were expected to play the Big East's game of the year, two similarly prolific though vastly different teams vying for a Bowl Championship Series bid in a rematch of last year's triple-over­time classic. 
Instead, it's a possible spot in the national championship game the third-ranked Mountaineers and the fifth-ranked Cardinals will be shooting for Thursday night. 
Those are heady aspirations for two programs that have never won a national title, from a league that was falling apart just three years ago. 
But they seem reasonable now that West Virginia running back Steve Slaton and quarterback Pat White have developed into one of the nation's most explosive back­fields and the Cardinals have emerged as one of the country's most resilient teams. 
Hype for the game has created a frenzy in Louisville usually reserved for the Kentucky Derby. Tickets were going for $1,000 on the Internet and more than 700 media credentials have been issued, double the usual allot­ment for a Cardinals' home game. 
"You have two top-10 teams that are undefeated so it's a big, big game," West Virginia coach Rich Rodriguez said. "But if we don't win the game, I'm not going to kiss the wife and kids goodbye and jump off the Westover Bridge (in 
Morgantown). There might be some fans who want to throw me off of it, but I'm not jumping." 
Keeping it all in perspective could be the key for the Cardinals (7 -0, 2-0) and Mountaineers (7 -0, 2-0). The winner should get a big boost in the BCS standings -West Virginia is in third-place this week and Louisville's in firth ­and be left with a very plausible scenario to reach BCS title game in Glendale, Ariz., on Jan. 8. 
"You don't want to put too much emphasis on it, but you don't want to underplay it either," Louisville coach Bobby Petrino said. "Guys who have been there for the last two, three, four years now, they know how to prepare for a big game." 
The Cardinals learned all about the dangers of getting ahead of yourself last year in Morgantown. Louisville lead by 17 points in the fourth quarter before West Virginia came storming back to win 46-44. 
"It's not over until it's over," Louisville quarterback Brian Brohm said. "It has been our motto. I think we learned." 
For Slaton and White, last year's Louisville game stamped their arrival. White had been sharing the job until that day when Adam Bednarik's injury made it a solo act. Slaton came off the bench to score six second­half touchdowns against the Cardinals. 
West Virginia hasn't lost since, winning a school-record 14 straight games behind a spread­option offense that forces defens­es to make a difficult choice between two of the country's most dynamic players. 
"We know what they're capa­ble of, that's for sure," Louisville defensive tackle Earl Heyman said. "Last year we were like, 'They're new, they're just fresh­men.' Now everybody knows what they're capable of, not just us. We'll do everything we can to prepare for them." 
Preparation hasn't been enough to stop the Mountaineers this year, momentum that 

NUALANi DHOMHNAILL 

A Public Poetry Reading 
HESBURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 4:00PM 
THURSDAY 2 November 
Sponsored by: Roinn Theanga agus Litliocht na Gaeilgc Department nt Irish Language and Literature, Keough-Naughton Institute tor Jdsh Studies 

$1 
haircut 
Valid Monday -Thursday With Student ID. Must present coupon to receive discount. No double discounts. Expires 12/15/06. Coupon code: N47 
Hodriguez said should stay with the program no matter the out­come. 
"One game will not define our program," Rodriguez said. "Now, if you're playing for a national championship, obviously that's a defining moment. If you're play­ing in the Sugar Bowl against the SEC champs, that's a defining moment. I just hope we play well." 
Few teams have played as well as the Cardinals and Mountaineers. Both rank in the top five in the country in scoring offense and in the top 10 in scor­ing defense, though they do it in dramatically different ways. 
The Mountaineers dominate behind Slaton, White and full­back Owen Schmitt and an unorthodox 3-3-5 defense that gives up lots of small plays but few big ones. The Cardinals are a balanced blend of Brahm's pass­ing, a running game that keeps churning along even without star Michael Bush -who broke his right leg in the season opener and is lost for the year -and a defense that has come into its own. 
A year ago, losing Bush for the season would have been cata­strophic. The fact the Cardinals have kept their national title hopes alive without arguably their best player is a testament to how far the program has come under Petrino. 
"We know what's at stake," Petrino said. "It's fun. We enjoy it. This is what we work for. This is what we want. ... Hopefully it won't go to triple overtime, it could be hard on the heart." 


UBS Investment Banking 101 
At UBS, we believe in creating opportunities for every one of our employees to excel and realize their potential. As a leading financial firm with offices in over 50 countries, UBS can offer the inspiration you need from all corners of the globe. After alt when you're inspired, we all succeed. 
Date: November 6, 2006 Time: 6.00 PM -8.00 PM Venue: Center for Continuing Education 
McKenna Hall-Room 210 
Resume Drop Deadline: January 22, 2007 -Investment Banking 
It starts with you: www.ubs.com/graduates 
UBS is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity in its workplace. (M/F/DN) 

*UBS 
Thursday, November 2, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
National 
continued from page 20 
Bayliss said. "We are just going to take it one match at a time." 
Parbhu will take on Old Dominion's Hare! Srugo, the ITA Mideast Singles Champion. Srugo captured Crowne Plaza Tribe Invitational. In addition to its host, Notre Dame will also compete against Maryland and North Carolina State. The Tribe will play without its top doubles team of Colin O'Brien and Alex Cojanu, as the duo will be competing in the ITA National Indoor Championship along with Parbhu and Keckley. 
The Irish will 
have to play 

the title by "[Parbhu] has been without top-five 
defeating team­singles player
working on

mate Henrique sophomore Cancado 7-5, 6-getting a better Brett Helgeson, 
2. rhythm to his game who sustained 
Parbhu earned an ankle injury
and developing
his spot at the last week. National Indoors more consistency." While Bayliss when he acknowledged advanced to the the challenge in
Bobby Bayliss

Midwest Singles losing
Irish coach 

Final, where he fell to Ohio State's Steven Moneke 7 -6(2), 6-2. 
Bayliss said that Parbhu has been working on devel­oping an even stronger game since losing to Moneke. 
"[Parbhu) has been work­ing on getting a better rhythm to his game and developing more consisten­cy," Bayliss said. 
Bass reached the tourna­ment as an at-large selection -he was selected based on ranking and fall performance -and will play against Florida's Greg Ouellette. Ouellette garnered the ITA Southeast Championship title after his competitor, Georgia's Travis Helgeson, withdrew from the match. 
The rest of the Irish squad will head down to William and Mary Friday for the 
Helgeson,  he  
said the  team  
still looks for­ 
ward  to the opportunity to  
play.  

Seni<;~r Barry King will lead the Irish in the eight-player round robin tournament. Senior Irackli Akhvlediani follows King at the No. 2 sin­gles spot for Notre Dame. 
Bayliss said he is excited to see how the team performs when younger players have a chance to see more of the court than usual. 
"This is an opportunity for everyone to play up in an opportunity they wouldn't normally see," Bayliss said. "I want to see how some of the guys play in roles they've never had the opportunity to assume." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
Tourney 
continued from page 20 
performances at the ITA Regional Finals last week at Michigan State. Rielley defeat­ed Ciobanu 7-5, 6-4 in the finals of that event, marking the first time freshman team­mates have ever faced each other in ITA Finals history. 
"It's been tough for them to practice this past week because they've had a lot of tests," Louderback said. "But they're very excited. We'll just see how they do because they're up against some of the top com­petitors." 
Rielley faces Clemson's Carole Salge while Ciobanu will play third-seeded Kristi Miller of Georgia Tech. 
On the doubles side, All­American seniors Catrina and Christian Thompson earned the No. 1 seed in the 16-team field by virtue of their second place finish at the Rivera All­American Championships October 5-8. The good news for the pair is that Arizona State's Roxanne Clarke and Cady Pooler, who defeated the sisters in the Rivera Championships, are not listed on the bracket for this weekend's tournament. 
The Thompson twins recently won their first professional tournament over the summer in the Via Christi Women's 10K of Wichita in July. The pair is allowed to compete in profes­sional tournaments while main­taining NCAA eligibility by not collecing prize money from any events. 
At the opposite end of the bracket, junior Brook Buck and sophomore Kelcy Tefft will square off against second-seed­ed Suzi Babos and Zsuzsanna Fodor from California. Babos is also seeded first in the singles tournament. Buck and Tefft qualified for the event by win­ning the ITA Midwest Championships. 

"The doubles teams have 
been playing a lot more dou­bles than normal over the past few days in order to get ready for this meet," Louderback said. "Both teams know what to expect." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

ALL PHONES 
THE POWER TO PICK THE
ARE FREE! 
ONEYOUWA T 











NOW OPENI 52991 SR933 South Bend, IN 

.-----------­
~-------------­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 2, 2006 

DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer 

Freshman forward Michelle Weissenhofer, right, competes with Saint John's defender Susan Byrne for a loose ball Sunday. 
Injury 
continued from page 20 
Waldrum said. "But I think right now she's probably done." 
Without Dew, the Irish defense managed two 3-0 victories ­Cincinnati last week and St. John's Sunday. Freshman Haley Ford slid into the center Sunday to join senior captain Kim Lorenzen, as senior Christie Shaner and junior Amanda Jones held the left and right posts. Freshman Amanda Clark also saw action in the back. 
That rotation is what Waldrum expects to stick with unless something changes his mind dur­ing the Big East semifinals. 
For Dew, it's "definitely hard" to be watching from crutches on the sidelines. 
''I'm disappointed that it hap­pened at such a crucial time in the season," Dew said. 
Dew witnessed the defense allow 10 Red Storm shots ­compared to a season average of just over five per game. Waldrum blamed miscommunication between unfamiliar faces for a couple slipups and said overall he was pleased with the group's performance. 
While the defenders have been practicing together throughout the fall, Lorenzen said it would take "a little bit of time" to adjust to the rotation. 
"We'll see," she said. "Having last weekend under our belt should help, and having this weekend before the tournament will help." 
Sunday was the first Irish game Dew has watched this year in which she wasn't able to play. However, the Irish played six games, including exhibitions, without her earlier this year when she and sophomore for­ward Brittany Bock were playing in Russia for the U-20 World Championships -during which time Notre Dame surrendered two goals and went 6-0, includ­ing wins over current No. 19 Virginia, No. 3 Santa Clara, No. 22 Southern California and No. 24 SMU. 
"We beat a lot of good teams without her," Waldrum said. 


1/zatjd.alfj 
in every booth I

Korooke 9 pm -1 om NFL Sundoy Ticket 

i'o~~ setween the 
#1 

Reader.. • J, ..:::a·uns
.,.~Oo!Ce/,/ ..... -~~-~\ Sports Bor
,X: • 
v \ 

SPORTS BAR 
t:?anzpe.u _s7.ho-ppt2~ • ._S7o-u~h Ot2n.d 
vvvvvv.BetvveentheBuns.com 
"And so I think [the defense has] confidence in Amanda Clark and Haley Ford, whoever we put back there." 
Waldrum said the Irish were fortunate to have time early in the season as well as the Big East tournament to play without Dew. However, Dew -who Waldrum said was reported to be one of the top two center backs in the world at the U-20 tournament­leaves big shoes to fill. 
"It's never a good thing when one of your top players goes down with an injury," he said. "At least if it were going to hap­pen, we've got some time ... hopefully two more games in the Big East [tournament], and then hopefully you can get can deep in the NCAA. We've got some time to get them some games together before you get into [it] if you're fortunate to make it to a final four." 
Lorenzen acknowledged the emotional challenge Dew's injury presents to the team -a chal­lenge she said teammates will tackle. 
"There's two different parts to it," Lorenzen said. "She's a great player, and, personally, I'm going to miss playing with her if we can't get her back. The other part is we have talented fresh­men who can step in for us. Haley Ford has stepped up for us, and Amanda Clark has stepped for us in the back." 
A tournament return after an ACL tear is not unprecedented for Waldrum. In 2000, then­freshman forward Amy Warner missed seven games after tearing her ACL before working into the starting lineup during the tour­nament and scoring the lone Irish goal in a semifinal loss to North Carolina en route to selec­tion to the all-tournament team. 
Waldrum said health is his biggest concern for Dew, who has two more years to write her soccer future at Notre Dame. 
"More importantly, I feel badly for her because she's having such a good year and is a big part of our team," he said. "We'll get her healthy, and she'll be back." 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
Exhibition 
continued from page 20 

points but played just 19 min­utes due to foul trouble. 
"That's the way it goes some­times," Brey said of Zeller's foul trouble. "We just had to put another guy in there." 
Senior guard Colin Falls reprised his three-point special­ist role from the last few sea­sons, hitting three shots beyond the arc and scoring 15 total points. Palls also displayed an ability to got to the basket, cre­ating opportunities for his teammates when double­teamed. 
McAlarney was effective in his first game starting at point guard for the Irish. putting in eight points and dishing out five assists. 
Freshman point guard Tory Jackson spelled McAlarney, going 2-for-6 for five points points and two assists. 
"Tory was excited tonight," Brey said. "Sometime he was a little too excited." 
The two point guards were on the court together briefly with around 10 minutes left in the first half, with both players bringing up the ball. 
"Whoever gets the ball [brings it up]." Jackson said of the two-point guard system. "[Kyle] creates for me and I 
THE BEACH BOYS 
SPECIAL GOEST 

ERJC BOROOtt & THE fittiMALS 
Sunday tlovClmbClr lZ 

fl<km On SQiv At MOI"rls Boll Offlco, 

Sup:~:~':~~ ~~:;:en .:;:?'~/kfi'l,\ 
574/23~9190 Or Online 
Flot Screen TVs 


Irish guard Colin Falls, right, drives past Michigan forward Chris Hunter in the Wolverines' 71-67 win Dec. 3. 
create for him." 
Brey said the two point guards allow the Irish to put full court pressure on the ball on most possessions. 
"If we can keep a fresh guy in there on the ball handler, that really helps us," he said. 
The Hawks were led by cen­ter John Torson, who scored eight points on 2-for-6 shooting. 
All 13 players saw the floor for the Irish, including fresh­men Joe Harden, Jonathan Peoples and Tim Andree, as well as senior walk-on Kieran Piller. 

Notre Dame will be in action next Monday in another exhibi­tion against Bellarmine at 7:30 
p.m. at the Joyce Center. The Irish open the regular season Nov. 10 against IPFW at home. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


Wanted: Old paintings by Indiana artists and Notre Dame artists. 
• 
Clear Coat 

• 
Premium Soft Cloth 


Wash 
• Polis/7-n-Sea/er Wax Applied 
• 2-Step Underbody
BEST 
Protectant 
• SpotFree
WASH Rinse 

I I I I I l 
J 
I 52694 State Roacl 933 1 Soutll Bene!, Indiana 46637 ! 
Just north o/ Notre Dame on U S. 31 


Thursday, November 2, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ALEC WHITE
JOCULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD  ADAM FAIRHOLM  
I ALWA'jS HEA~ Thii'IC:rS A.l!>oul IkE. C:rHOS"T5 OF WA'SHIN(x'ioN Hl'U..  HMM ... -1\·HS SE.EMS So  bo'ESNr C.lt..EE:..P~ ...  IMI::.t:..\...Y 1'-\E.  "jOUI'II:r HAN. \  ONE. "\"~\r-1~ 1\-IAI ~E:fS NOIR.:E l:>AME. P.,l>,...lt.T Ftt..ol'-\ '"1'\-\E.. c.~o-wt>S IS OUR C.R.O'Wt> 0~ K~ss/ \-\1~\ous EI..'OER.'-'i ~\10\E.E..S.  

HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Gee, Marvin, this ball 
has holes in it 

©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 

r~f1l 
tYEUFLE 

WHE:N THE: "SMART" GIRL-WE:NT BOWL-­
J I I 
ING WITH He:R DATE:,
www.jumble.com 
SHE:--­

tYASMID j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above car­
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: BLAZE CREEL VASSAL BECAME Answer: What the postal clerk sought when she went online for a date-"MALE" CALL 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 34 Comment made 63 Conductor 1 Corday's victim while fanning Georg 6 Billiard shot oneself 64 Portuguese 
37 Cyclades island colony until 199911 Convenience 
38 Classic Dickens 65 Entirely
store sign title (from 66 Kind of energy 
14 Classic game 
company whose 10 letters 67 Pile upthis puzzle was
15 Like World Cup constructed)
crowds DOWN
41 _polloi

16 Charles X, e.g. 1 Introduction to
42 ltsy bits economics?

17 59-Across and 43 Must 
20n
others 44 Casual walk (carousing)19 Dispenser of 46 Show 
3 "Groundhog 47 See 19-Across Day" director 
47-Across 
20 Irritate 48 Commandment 4 Seed covering21 Where to spend word 5 Start of akips 
51_Poly winning
22 Mid fourth­54 Wreck combinationcentury year 56 Sail supporter 6 Major export of 24 Results of ties: 57 Colombian city Ivory Coast Abbr. 
58 Coach 7 Movie droid, 
25 _-Hawley 
Parseghian familiarlyTariff Act of 1930 59 Ebenezer 8 Perch26 Cheer Scrooge player 9 Stick in the 27 Shelley's "_ in a 1951 movie water Skylark" version of 10 Tiny Tim's 28 Old Chevy 38-Across 
mother in 32 59-Across, e.g. 45 Commercial 53 Line at an 31 Professional grp. 62 chi ch'uan 38-Across suffix with Rock airport
33 It's usually 11 Places for tucked in 46 Utah ski resort 54 "Bye now"ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE theorizers? 
34"Am believe 48 Trivial 
... ?" 
49"_ manana"

"r+r,t,r*i-+iii-1 13 Rodolfo's love 57 Jampack
35 "Dee-lish!" 
50 Movingin "La Boheme" 

36 Joke responses 60 John
51 Conspirator 39 Cards, on the against Caesar 

~...+=+-"-=~ 18 mater 
T:+T+,n.T+.;.+.II"! 23 Suffix with mini 61 "Well,_
scoreboard

or Web 52 Popular spy monkey's 25 Working poor, 40 Berne's river show uncle!" e.g., in 38-Across 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a*-m+M 27 Rocky hill credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 28 1980's-90's TV 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaynickname crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. ~~.+::-~..,:,.+.-:-! 29 Cheer (for) Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 -::+=+,=+:.;..! 30 Kon-Tiki past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Museum site Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young ..:..:.L.:::..L.:..:.J....::..J 31 Cries of delight solvers: ny1imes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City ________ State _______ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: LaTavia Roberson, 25; Aishwarya Rai. 33; Jenny McCarthy, 34; Lyle Lovett, 49 
Happy Birthday: You are on the ride of a lifetime so don't just watch life pass you by. You'll be more original, entertaining and insightful this year. Get serious about who you are and where you are headed --and don't let anyone hold you back when you have so much to achieve. Your numbers are 5, 8, 23, 31, 38, 43 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You can have a powerful affect on others if you talk about your beliefs and life philosophy. An older individual will make sense to you on many levels. Don't invest your money to support someone else's concept. Invest in yourself. 3 stars 
TAURUS (Aprii20·May 20): You can make magic today if you spend time with someone you care for deeply. The ground you can cover through the discussions will lead to something very speciaL A satisfactory deal can be struck. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone will grant you a favor or help you acquire what you need to move forward. Time spent developing a good rapport with your clients or boss will be to your benefit. You can motivate and inspire people with your vision. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can get ahead this week by making a few changes. Getting together with people who can help you or just hanging out with friends will lead to a business or personal partnership. Children will play a role in your life. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Someone may try to limit what you can do. Be ready to take care of your own business and forget about relying on others. You can make some alterations to your living space, with the approval of the people it might affect. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Upgrade your skills if you aren't happy with your current position. A love relationship can be taken to new heights. Doing something special with someone you enjoy will introduce you to a new hobby that will bring you satisfaction. 3 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will impress everyone with your ability to get things done in a timely fashion. An interest in someone you work with will be reciprocated. Base what you do on your own experience. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Do whatever it takes to make your point heard. Make changes to your personal life or residence so your environment can aid you in doing the things you enjoy the most. Love and romance are in a high cycle. 5 stars 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Be very careful what you say today. You will be blamed for something you may not have done. Stay in the loop and you will avoid being talked about. Someone you think you can trust will probably be working against you. 2 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your ability to take control and make things happen will be what gets you where you want to go. Presenting, promoting and prosperity will be your world today. Don't hesitate to speak your mind and go after your goals. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't say another word or it may be used against you. Be careful how you proceed, especially if it concerns changing your lifestyle or getting involved with people who do things a little differently. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Travel, talks and looking for good buys or investments will pay off. A contract will be worth signing and a commitment or promise worth making. Legal matters and settlements should be dealt with immediately. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, caring, hardworking, dedicated and originaL You have the depth and intensity to make things happen and are always ready to give everything you've got to whatever you choose to do. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, November 2, 2006 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Rock in hand 

Irish drub Rockhurst 79-44 in exhibition to open season 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
Russell Carter streaked down the floor and Kyle McAlarney lofted a perfect pass toward the basket. Carter jumped, caught the ball, slammed it and came down on the winning end of a 79-44 blowout at the Joyce Center Wednesday. 
The play, early in the second half, exemplified a night where everything went right for Notre Dame, as the Irish blasted an overmatched Rockhurst squad in the first exhibition game of the season for both teams. 
"It's always good to get on the same bench and get a feel for your rotation," Notre Dame head coach Mike Brey said. 
The Irish started the game with a 20-4 run and never looked back, shooting 53 percent from the field and leading 43-17 at the half. The Hawks shot just 5-for-23 in the first half and had nine turnovers. 
"We were really stressing 

defense in the offseason," McAlarney said. "It was the first game, so there were a few jit­ters, but one way to get rid of jit­ters is to get up in someone's face and play defense." 
Rockhurst improved in the sec­ond half, shooting 42 percent from the field, but it wasn't enough to get back in the game. Still, Brey saw areas for improvement. 
"I think it's a good thing we can come back tomorrow, get in the classroom situation, watch the film, and talk," Brey said. 
Irish freshman forward Luke Harangody led all scorers with 17 points in his first collegiate appearance, using his 6-8, 250­pound frame to musde his way under the basket. 
"This is what I've seen for three weeks [in practice]," Brey said of Harangody. "He can score the ball, he's got great hands, [and] he gives us a low post pres­ence." 
Junior Rob Kurz was also effective in the post for Notre Dame. Kurz scored 11 points and had a team-high 19 rebounds. Sophomore Luke Zeller, who started alongside Kurz in the frontcourt, scored four quick 
see EXHIBITION/page 18 

KIRSTEN HOELMERffhe Observer 
Sophomore guard Kyle McAiarney chases after a loose ball in Notre Dame's 90-63 win over Rutgers Feb. 8. 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Six players headed to Columbus 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
The Irish will send six play­ers to the ITA National Indoor Championships this weekend at Ohio State. But while the tour­nament is one of three national meets throughout the year that feature the top tennis players from around the nation, it will have no direct NCAA implica­tions. 
"There's really nothing that ltheyl gain if they win this. It's really just an opportunity to get the top players from around the country together," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "But it is one of the chances to boost your ranking nationally. It's going to help in the spring when they're seed­ing for the NCAA Tournament." 
Freshmen Colleen Rielley and Cosmina Ciobanu will repre­sent the Irish in the 32-player singles field. Rielley and Ciobanu qualified for the event thanks to their scene-stealing 
see TOURNEYIpage 17 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Dew's season likely over 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
While Notre Dame's record suffered its first blemish of the season in a scoreless draw at Connecticut Oct. 13, last week's 3-0 victory at Cincinnati was the season's biggest setback. 
The Irish won the match, but likely lost sophomore center defender Carrie Dew for the rest of the season after she tore her anterior cruciate ligament, said Irish coach Randy Waldrum. 

After speaking with doctors, Waldrum said Dew will eventual­ly require surgery to repair the damaged ligament. Holding onto a sliver of hope to return for the later stages of the NCAA Tournament -which Waldrum said would be unlikely -the Big East Defensive Player of the Year candidate will undergo rehab to test her knee's strength. 
"That's something we'd have to take a hard look at after some rehab to see if she'd be able to come in and finish anything out," 
see INJURY/page 18 


DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer Irish defender Carrie Dew, left, and midfielder Jill Krivacek, right, swarm Rutgers' Jenifer Anzivino in Notre Dame's 2-0 win Oct. 8. 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish athletes invited to national tournament 
Parbhu, Keckley and Bass to represent ND at ITA national meet 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Sports Writer 
liard work at the ITA Midwest Regional Championships paid ofT for the Irish, who today send three members of the squad -sen­iors Stephen Bass and Ryan Keckley and junior Sheeva Parbhu -to the four-day ITA National Indoor Championships in Columbus, Ohio. 
Doubles partners Parbhu and Keckley earned a spot in the tournament with their 9-8(5) victory over Louisville's Damar .Johnson and Slavko Hadman in the ITA Midwest Doubles Championship final Oct. 24. The pair faces San Diego State's fourth-seeded Markus Dickhardt and Christian Groh. 
Dickhardt and Groh advanced to the semifinals of the Polo Halph Lauren All 
American  Tennis  
Championships with  an  8-5  
quarterf'inals  win  over  

Tennessee's Bobby Cameron and Kaden Hensel. Dickhardt and Groh were forced to with­draw from their semifinal match against Georgia's Luis Flores and John Isner after Groh pulled a stomach muscle in a consolation singles match earlier that day. 
Flores and Isner are current­ly the No. 1 doubles team in the nation, and Parbhu and Keckley will likely see them if they advance far enough. 
Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said the high level of competi­tion does not faze the duo. 
"Everybody is good and every match is going to be tough," 
see NATIONAL/page 17 
NHL

~CAl FOOTBAll 
NHL 

NBA
NBA 
NBA 
LLI 

Co) Quarterback Pat 
76ers 88
Hurricanes 5 
Avalanche 5 
Pacers 106

Ma~ic 109
-

z White and running back 
Hawks 75 
Bul s 94 
Bobcats 99
Thrashers 2 
Blue Jackets 3 

Steve Slaton will lead
:3 

No. 3 West Virginia 
Guard Allen Iverson 
Dwight Howard 
Forwards Jermaine
Goalie Cam Ward 
Goalie Jose Theodore 

= against No. 5 Louisville 
has 19 saves in the third 

leads all scorers with 32 
scores 27 points to lead 
O'Neal and Sarunis
stonewalls 40 shots in
c:a:: 
tonight at 7:30. 

points in 76ers season 
Orlando over Chicago. 
Carolina's win over 
period to secure 
J asikevici us score 20 
Colorado's victory. 

opening win. 
points a piece for Indiana.
Atlanta.
!;: 

page 15 
page 14 

page 12 
page 12 
page 12
page 14 

-~ : .
! ,,!..:.... •.... f..:_~,., s... f.J • -, _ f,.t, I 
iJJ1 ,·.lrl<t. -­
r 
' 






