
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
New city sewer work blocks campus traffic 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
News Writer 
Drivers and pedestrians traveling between the west end of Saint Mary's Lake and Douglas Road will be inconve­nienced this week, as massive construction developments have forced Saint Mary's Road to close at Indiana 933. 
They may, however, feel bet­ter knowing that the digging is all part of Notre Dame's plan to construct a sewer system that will transport sanitary sewage from the campus directly to the county's pro­cessing plant -no longer relying on South Bend pipelines as its distributors, and helping the city consider­ably reduce its sewer over­flows. 
Paul Kempf, the director of Utilities in the Notre Dame Office of Business Operations, explained the reasoning behind the construction deci­sion. 
"After over 50 years of use the original trunk sewer con­nection to the POTW [Publicly Owned Treatment Works] is nearing its capacity, and the current project will replace the existing trunk sewer with a larger trunk sewer to handle future growth of the University of Notre Dame," Kempf said. 
In the past, Notre Dame san­
see SEWERS/page 4 
Leaders exatnine global health 
Club representatives consider contribution options in face of crisis 
and a separate bank account for funds raised for the response will not be created, in accordance with student activity rules. 
The events and initiatives of the response will cover five areas: faith, curriculum, student education, political action and fundraising. 
In terms of fundraising, organizers said money would go toward building a medical clinic for the Notre Dame­sponsored Millennium Village in Uganda. The fig­ure of $10,000 was men­tioned as a starting goal, though the cost of the med­ical clinic is expected to be higher. 
see HEALTH/page 9 

LSAT undergoes change for 2007 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
Assistant News Editor 
Four times a year, students with dreams of becoming lawyers sit in hundreds of locations around the world and take a $118, half-day standardized test -one that has remained nearly unchanged for the last 15 years. 
Beginning in June 2007, however, this exam -the Law School Admission Test (LSAT) -will feature two small, yet significant, changes recently announced by the Law School Admission Council (LSAC). 
Opus Group awards over $1 million 
Company rewards volunteer organizations for faith-based entrepreneurial spirited acts 
By RYAN SYDLIK 
News Writer 
Several faith based organiza­tions left Notre Dame's campus with over $1 million Wednesday night. 
Hundreds of people gathered in the Joyce Center as the Opus Prize Foundation gave Zilda Arns Neuman, founder of Pastoral da Crianca (the Pastoral of the Child). over $1 million for the church's contin­ued work to aid the poor. 
The Opus Prize is affiliated with the Opus Group, a $1.4 billion national real estate development company that rewards individuals combining "a driving entrepreneurial spir­it with an abiding faith to com-
The main change is to the reading comprehension sec­tion of the exam, which cur­rently features four different long passages, each with six or seven questions, said Ben Baron, vice president for graduate programs at Kaplan Test Prep and Admissions. 
"One of those passages will be replaced by comparative reading [with] two shorter side by side passages," he said. 
The two passages together "are of roughly the same length as one reading com­prehension passage, so the 
see LSATIpage 6 


ByJOE PIARULLI 
Assistant News Editor 

When over 50 representa­tives from academic, athlet­ic, cultural, media and serv­ice clubs come together, it's not just any old Wednesday night on campus. 
Senior co-organizers Amanda Golbabai and Bryan Hambley called a variety of student leaders together to get the ball rolling on plans 
to  respond  to  the  global  
health crisis.  
The issue of the  global  

health crisis was the subject of the Notre Dame Forum this year and the question of what the student body can do was the subject of 
Wednesday night's 10 p.m. meeting in the Notre Dame Room of the LaFortune Student Center. 
"If we all work together we're going to come up with something great," Golbabai said. 
Golbabai and Hambley put forth several goals in a handout to attendees, name­ly "to have a series of events and initiatives in response to the global health crisis that all student organizations would sponsor together." 
The student representa­tives present at the meeting do not constitute a formal organization. No name has been given to the collection of leaders participating in the health crisis response bat poverty, illiteracy, hunger, disease and injustice." 
As a public healt.h program, the Pastoral of the Child works with more than 265,000 world­wide volunteers that supply the needy with everything from nutrition to immunizations. 
The organization -founded by Neumann and her brother in Brazil in 1983 -began when Cardinal Paulo Evaristo Arns, then archbishop of Sao Paulo, asked if she could do some­thing to prevent Brazilian chil­dren from dying of preventable causes. 
After receiving the award Neuman thanked many people, but she had special words of praise for the organization's 
see OPUS/page 8 
Sister Ann Kendrick gives her acceptance speech for the Opus Group finalist prize Wednesday night in the Joyce Center. 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Discussion addresses penalty 
Brooks suggests death sentence results in closure for families 
By KAITLYNN REILY 
News Writer 
While often defended as a means of closure and healing for victims' families, the death penalty is a form of revenge that fails to bring peace, Deacon George said Wednesday night in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. 
Brooks, the former director of advocacy and jail chaplain for Kolbe House in Chicago, gave examples of arguments capital punishment opponents might use against death penalty advocates. 
Some people may claim that the death penalty brings peace to the victims' families, Brooks said. But if this is true, he asked, why do only two per­
cent  of murderers  in  the  
United  States  receive  the  
death penalty?  

"If in fact the death penalty is so good for the victims' fam­ilies, and if it gives them peace of mind and healing -if it gives dignity to the person who has been murdered ­then we are saying that the state has arbitrarily chosen 98 percent of the victims' families to have no healing and to not get dignity and respect for the person murdered," he said. 
Brooks, who dissolved his law firm when he was ordained a deacon in 1991, pointed out the discrepancy 
see PENALTYIpage 8 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, November 9, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Out of the 
lllouths of 


babes 
Politics are about passion -political campaigns, even more so. But there is a point at which the passion becomes too much. When partisan dilferences turn into throw-down 
Amanda Michaels
dirty brawls. When attacks 
Assistant News
turn away from 
Editor
the greater national issues 
and latch onto the throat'> of individuals and their families. When campaign ads say nothing about political platforms, and instead are intent on showing how 
'unfurmy' an opponent is. 
After each election, there are always some "civil hands" in need of washing. 
One of the most unsavory elements of this kind of over-the-top antipathy for 'the other guy' is the way in which children are pulled down into the mud with the rest of us. 
Late Tuesday night during CNN's elec­tion coverage, a woman called in to speak on behalf of her 12-year-old daughter. The girl, she said, was distressed about the Democrats' victories, because she loved President Bush. The CNN analyst asked that the girl-we'll call her Jane­be put on the line. 
Jane, in a soft but very assured voice, told the analyst that what was really upsetting about the election was not so much that the President's party was los­ing, but that she knew that the winning Democrats were "all really immoral peo­ple." 
That was from a sixth-grader. 
When I was nine, my entire class wrote to political leaders. Most people picked then-President Bill Clinton or Hillary­but, not knowing much of anything about politics, I made my decision based on the person receiving the smallest number of letters. 
That person was Rick Santorum-the Pennsylvania Representative who had just been elected to the Senate. No one else wanted to write to him, and I took pity. 
Big mistake. 
Weeks went by. Everyone else in the class brought in their signed pictures of "Slick Willy" -as my dad still calls him -but my mailbox remained empty. Finally, I was the only one left without even a letter to show for my efforts. And thus was born the grudge that lasts even to this day. 
Eventually, I began to dislike Santorum for more informed reasons, but for many years I thought of him only as "the bad man who doesn't care about little girls," and hissed every time I heard him men­tioned. 
Yes, I literally hissed. 
Now, in the world of politics, it's one thing for an adult to call another adult a baby killer, a warmonger, a sleazy syco­phant. 
It's another for children to become involved in the muckraking, to be used by their parents -or political candidates ­as mouth-pieces for a cause they don't even understand. 
It was disturbing to hear that little girl on CNN last night -just as disturbing as the deep anger I still harbor for Santo rum. 
I'm just glad my mother never put me on the phone. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and srrives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize rhat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE DESSERT TO SPLURGE ON? 





Val Allen 
sophomore Lewis 
"Apple pie a Ia mode ... but I'd like the pie heated ... and I don't want the ice cream on the top, I want it on the side. " 



IN BRIEF 
The final lecture in the CSC's Democracy Matters Midterm Election Series will take place tonight from 5:30 to 6:30 in the Center for Social Concerns. The event, titled "Midterm Election Day Analysis: What Happened & What Now?" will feature faculty presenters and responses by campus political parties. 
Health Services is again dis­tributing free flu shots today from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library concourse. Shots are available to all Notre Dame students, faculty, staff, retirees and spouses of retirees. All recipients must present their current ND iden­tification card, wear short sleeves, and sign a consent form. This is the final day for the flu shot distribution. 
The Saint Mary's Department of Music will present A Fall Choral Concert tonight at 7:30 in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The play Celebrating Wendy: An Evening of Wasserstein One-Acts will take place Nov. 9-11 at 7:30 
p.m. and at 2:30 p.m. Sunday in Saint Mary's Little Theatre. Tickets are $9-adults, $8-sen­ior citizens, $7-SMC/ND staff and $6-students. 
Saint Mary's junior class will be selling $2 bananas splits Monday from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. in Reignboux Lounge in Le Mans Hall. All proceeds will go to S.C.O.U.T. B.A.N.A.N.A. to raise funds for a community in Uganda. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 48 HIGH 50 LOW 35 LOW 40 
OFFBEAT 
Beijing institutes 1 dog per family rule 
BEIJING -First it was one child. Now authorities say Beijing families will be allowed only one dog. 
The restriction is part of efforts to stamp out rabies, state media said Wednesday. It follows a campaign in August in which thousands of dogs were killed in order to fight the disease. 
China's capital will insti­tute a "one dog" policy for each household in nine areas, the official Xinhua News Agency said. 
"Only one pet dog is allowed per household in the zones, and dangerous 
and large dogs will be banned. Anyone keeping an unlicensed dog will face prosecution," Xinhua said. 
Rabies is on the rise in China, with 2,651 reported deaths from the disease in 2004, the last year for which data were available. 
Only 3 percent of China's dogs arc vaccinated against rabies, which attacks the nervous system and can be fatal. 
Restaurant offers free food for campaign signs 
CHARLESTON, S.C. ­Turn in those ubiquitous campaign signs and get some free food. That's the message from Southeast restaurant chain Sticky Fingers, which is offering a free appetizer to anyone who cleans up the campaign dutter and brings in a sign. 
"Just think of those left­over campaign signs as oversized, roadside gift cer­tificates," said Sticky Fingers co-owner Jeff Goldstein. "It's an easy way to help take care of our neighborhoods." 
The Charleston-based ribs restaurant will offer coupons for a free appetizer through next Wednesday. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
IX 
1.&.1 :::1: 
~ 

.. 
1.&.1 
J)3: 
_, 
cs: 
(.) 

_.0 HIGH 65 HIGH 55 HIGH 62 HIGH 55 LOW 52 LOW 52 LOW 53 LOW 40 
Atlanta 75 1 48 Boston 66 153 Chicago 62 I 47 Denver 63 I 38 Houston 83 I 62 Los Angeles 71 I 58 Minneapolis 55 I 43 New York 68 153 Philadelphia 71 155 Phoenix 85 I 63 Seattle 49 I 40 St. Louis 74 I 53 Tampa 77 I 61 Washington 68 I 51 
Thursday, November 9, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 
Group addresses student-alumni relations 
By MARY KATE MALONE News Editor 
After a disappointing turnout at the three student-alumni receptions this fall, the Student Senate examined what went wrong with the event and brain­stormed ways to make it better at its meeting Wednesday. 
University Affairs committee chair Aly Baumgartner headed the gatherings, which she said were meant to cultivate a better relationship between alumni and current students. 
Student turnout, however, was dismal. The first reception, held on Sept. 28 before the Purdue game, drew about 50 people ­and that was the most popular. The second, on Oct. 6 before the Stanford game, had just 20 peo­ple. At the fmal one, held Nov. 4, Baumgartner counted about 30 visitors. 
"We didn't get as many stu­dents as we would have liked," Baumgartner said. 
Breen-Phillips senator Maris Brown said senators, given their role as student leaders, "did a really poor job" attending and promoting the event. 
"I was really disappointed with the Senate's showing," Brown said. "I think we have a responsi­bility to go to this. . . . I mean if we don't come, and we're stu­dent leaders, then how are we going to expect anyone else to come?'' 
Some senators said the time of the reception -late afternoon on a football Friday -was inconvenient for most students. 
St. Edward's senator Brian Lan suggested making the reception more public, which would proba­bly draw in students passing by, he said. 
"If they smell food, they'll come over sooner or later and check it out," Lan said. 
Baumgartner said tailoring the receptions for specific majors could also attract more students. That tactic was used for the final reception, when alumni in the entertainment industry attended the event. Film, Television and Theatre majors were especially encouraged to visit that recep­tion. 
Baumgartner and student body vice president Bill Andrichik will meet with representatives from the Alumni Association later this year to discuss the receptions. After that, the responsibility to plan and prepare them again next year will fall on the Student­Alumni Relations Group, a stu­dent club on campus. 
"We can hand this off so it's not a student government initiative but an· issue that can keep going regardless of student leader­ship," Andrichik said. 
In other Senate news: 
+It's possible that Saturday's football game against Air Force will be aired at the Stepan Center, Director of Student Activities Brian Coughlin said. His office is "looking into the pos-sibility" of renting a temporary satellite truck that would attach to the Stepan Center, he said. 

+Last week's Senate resolution calling for more on-campus resources for Native American students will be presented to the Campus Life Council Nov. 13, stu­dent body president Lizzi Shappell told senators. Another resolution passed last week, which called for Holy Cross stu­dents to have access to the Rockne Memorial until the com­pletion of their new athletic facil­ity, was given to the vice presi­dent of student affairs at Holy Cross. 
+ Siegfriend senator Jim Lockwood asked what measures were being taken to make stu­dent government more accessi­ble to those who want to get involved. 
Andrichik said the revamped student government Web site, which is not yet fmished, will be an easy way to get information about student government. · 
Director of Communications Alex French said members of his department reported that, for the most part, they had little trouble getting information they needed 
about student government. "But it never hurts to advertise more," he said. 
Lockwood said he could not determine who Siegfried's Judicial Council member was. When he contacted the Judicial Council, he was told the Siegfried representative was not attending Judicial Council meetings. 
Shappell said she would dis­cuss attendance at Judicial Council meetings with the Council of Representatives Nov. 14. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 9, 2006 
Online magazine returns 
Publication re-launched after criticism caused shut down last semester 
By JENNIFER METZ 
News Writer 
Adding its voice to those of established campus publications, newly reworked The Thatcher encourages literary innovation. 
The Thatcher is Notre Dame's only independent, online literary magazine. Edited by senior Alexa Recio, it was started last year for student writers to col­laborate and produce publish­able stories. 
"[Notre Dame literary maga­zine] The Juggler mostly pub­lishes poetry," Recio said. "We wanted to create a magazine for short stories as well." 
Recio said she and co-founder Christopher Mahoney, who grad­uated last May, wanted a maga­zine that could change "the way people thought about writers" and could introduce the idea of "writing as a community." 
The magazine is only available online at www. thethatch­



Sewers 
continued from page 1 
itary sewage was channeled into South Bend's main intercepting sewage pipelines -where it mixed with the city's storm waters and sewage -before reach­ing the POTW, Kempf said. 
However, during the wet seasons when severe storms added significant amounts of rain water to the system, Kempf said the POTW could not always handle the full flow of' the city's main sewer. 
"In order to relieve this sit­uation, overflows occur along the interceptor sewer," Kempf said. "These over­flows are principally storm water mixed with a small percentage or sanitary sewage, and the overflows in South Bend's case flow into the river." 
With these infrequent but serious overf1ows becoming an environmental concern, the United States Environmental Protection Agency and the Indiana Department of' Environmental Management stepped in to mandate the improvement of the tradi­tional sewage systems to eliminate the overflows, Kempf said. 
South Bend then developed a Long Term Control Plan that will address the situa­tion over time, beginning with the construction or a new system that will trans­port Notre Dame sanitary sewage -one of the POTW's largest customers -directly to the POTW and reduce the stream coming from the city's main sewage lines. 
Construction of Notre Dame's portion of the project -a collaboration between the University and South Bend -closed Saint Mary's Road on Monday, which will not reopen until Friday. The entire project is seheduled for completion during the spring of 2007. 

In the meantime, a pedes­trian path has opened around the construction, through Fatima House prop­erty. 
Motorists are ad vised to use the Douglas Hoad or Dorr Hoad entrances to the campus during these days. 
Once the entire project is completed, the sewage line will head west aeross IN 933, through portions of the Saint Mary's campus, then north along the Indiana Toll Road Interchange, west across !'armland belonging to the Sisters of Holy Cross and under the St. Joseph River before arriving at the POTW, Kempf said. 
Since its inception in the 1950s, the POTW has treated waste !'rom the South Bend sewer system -which is principally a combined sys­tem that carries both storm waters and sanitary sewage. 
Although Notre Dame has separate storm and sanitary sewer systems, the campus sanitary sewage alone is one of the biggest components in the city's main line. And as the University only expects to grow in the coming years, the construction of its own connection to the POTW seemed appropriate. 
"The new sewer has been sized to handle the long term growth plan of the University and should serve its needs for generations to come," Kempf said. 
Contact Marcela Benios at aberrios@nd.edu 
Gomez said. The stories in The Thatcher are the unfinished works of authors added together with input from the editors; the ideas are woven together to cre­Department and visit fiction writing classes, Recio said. 
The staff has plans for future improvements, including a col­laborative writing wiki where 
ate a publishable, complete story. 
This process was problematic, however. Some authors found problems in what they called the system's "loss of artistic control," Gomez said. The Web site was shut down at the end of last semester, and the magazine's con­cept underwent reassessment. 
Now, the new 
er.org, a Web site "We like their acceptance maintained by Detournment [a and editing policy, junior Daric the magazine re­
type ofsatire] ...
Snyder. launched its Web 
sort ofa warped
The Thatcher is site in October with also edited by 'gangsta, Sesame a new layout that senior Claire resembles an open
Street."

Ewersmann and book. juniors Rory Thatcher flyers Carmichael and Rory Carmichael distributed around Eric Gomez. junior the dining halls and 
The magazine, LaFortune feature Gomez explained, stories without an gets its name from the type of ending, a tactic Recio said was collaboration the editors pio­designed to increase readership neered -what they call and attract new writers and edi­"thatching." tors. 
The process derives from the Members of the staff are "fair­concept of a thatched roof, ly conversant" with the English 
"The Thatcher is a way for Notre Dame to get fiction published that ... [would] ... never see the light ofday without this unique system of publishing." 
Eric Gomez junior 

editors and view­ers can add to sto­ries, Carmichael said. 
"The Thatcher," Gomez said, "is a way for Notre Dame to get fiction published that ... [would[ ... never see the light of day without this unique system [of publishing1." 
The way the magazine is pub­lished isn't The Thatcher's only original feature; 
Thatcher primarily accepts com­pleted stories, and editors work informally with writers to achieve publishable standards, 
Gomez said. 
After changing 
the stories themselves, Carmichael said, are also "inter­esting and innovative." 
"We like Detournment [a type of satire] ... sort of a warped 'gangsta' Sesame Street," Carmichael said. "Talk about a new look on things ... that's the kind of thing you can see in a publication like this: variety, cre­ativity and murderous muppets." 
Carmichael, Gomez and Recio all stressed that this is a new Thatcher, meaning ultimate con­trol of the story resides with the author. 
"We're acting more like a tra­ditional literary magazine," Gomez said. 
The deadline for this month's submissions is Nov. 30. 
Contact Jennifer Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

Michiana Massage Therapy 
We can help with pain &stress 

$45 for your first one hour visit 
Barbara Bango CMT, AMTA Theraputic Massage Therapist By appointment only SWEEDISH Suite 735 
DEEP TISSUE

\... JMS Building .·• \ 108 N. Main, South Bend REFLEXOLOGY 
. & 574-233-9664 

CARPAL TUNNEL 
1~' 

SYNDROME THERAPY 



CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN






STUDENTS 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students {Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Andy Magee, amagee@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
{Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800; or Fr. Dick Warner, CSC, at 1-9704 
University Counseling Center 
{Individual counseling) 
Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at: 
http://www.corecouncil.nd.edu/ 





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, November 9, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WlRF SERVJCEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Japan suspends U.S. beef imports 
TOKYO -Japan said Wednesday it has halted beef imports from one U.S. meat­packing plant after finding a shipment with improper documentation, a development that may test the public's concern about the safety of American beef imports. 
The Agriculture and Health ministries decided to halt shipments from Swift & Co.'s plant in Greeley, Colo., after a ship­ment from the facility arrived in Osaka without proper documentation for some of the internal organs contained within, Agriculture Ministry official Yasushi Yamaguchi said. 
The Japanese government has asked the 
U.S. government to investigate the mishap and outline measures to prevent a recur­rence, Yamaguchi said. 
Russia puts own pressure on Iran 
MOSCOW -Russia has rejected European-proposed U.N. sanctions aimed at forcing Iran to halt its suspected nuclear weapons drive, but Moscow appears to be applying its own pressure by threatening to delay a key nuclear power project. 
Analysts say the Kremlin is determined not to push Iran into a corner like North Korea-blaming tough U.S. policies for Pyongyang's recent nuclear test -but Tehran's refusal to compromise has led to growing impatience in Moscow despite the two countries' close commercial ties. 
"President Putin is angry at [Iranian President Mahmoudl Ahmadinejad but he understands that it's probably too late to do anything now, said Georgy Mirsky, chief researcher at the Institute for World Economics and International Relations in Moscow. on Tuesday morning. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Democrats take control of Senate 
WASHINGTON -Democrats wrested con­trol of the Senate from Republicans Wednesday with an upset victory in Virginia, giving the party complete domination of Capitol Hill for the first time since 1994. 
Jim Webb's squeaker win over incumbent Sen. George Allen gave Democrats their 51st seat in the Senate, an astonishing turnabout at the hands of voters unhappy with Republican scandal and unabated violence in Iraq. Allen was the sixth Republican incum­bent senator defeated in Tuesday's elections. 
The Senate had teetered at 50 Democrats, 49 Republicans for most of Wednesday, with Virginia hanging in the balance. Webb's vic­tory ended Republican hopes of eking out a 50-50 split, with Vice President Dick Cheney wielding tie-breaking authority. 

Maryland sniper gets life sentence 
ROCKVILLE, Md.-Sniper Lee Boyd Malvo was sentenced Wednesday to life in prison for six murders in Maryland that were part of a three-week shooting spree that terror­ized the Washington area in 2002. 
In a brief statement, Malvo apologized and said he was a different person than the impressionable teen who killed at the com­mand of John Allen Muhammad, his accom­plice and mentor. 
''I'm truly sorry, grieved and ashamed for what I've done," said Malvo, his voice break­ing. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Long nominated to lead Ind. Senate 
INDIANAPOLIS -The next leader of the Indiana Senate said Wednesday that he hopes to maintain long-standing decorum in the chamber and announced that two fellow Republicans would continue in their roles as fiscal leaders. 
Republicans maintained their 33-17 major­ity in the Senate in Tuesday's election, and, as expected Wednesday, nominated Sen. David Long of Fort Wayne to be the next Senate president pro tern. The full Senate will vote on the choice during an organiza­tion day later this month, but that should only be a formality. 
Secretary of Defense resigns 
President accepts Rumsfeld's resignation, names Robert Bates as replacement 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON Humor was not Donald H. Humsfeld's best-known trait during his tenure at the Pentagoo. But on the day he called it quits, he cracked a telling joke. 
"It recalls to mind the statement by Winston Churchill, something to the effect that: 'I have benefited greatly from criticism, and at no time have I suffered a lack thereof,"' Humsfeld said with a slight grin. 
That from a man who was a lightning rod for criticism of the Iraq war and other Bush adminis­tration defense policies. After fending off the crit­ics for much of his nearly six years at the Pentagon, Rumsfeld said Wednesday that he and President Bush decided it was time to start fresh, with per­haps new ideas on Iraq. 
Iraq was the central issue of Humsfeld 's tenure, and unhappiness with the war was a major element of voter dissatis­faction Tuesday -and the main impetus for his departure. Even some GOP lawmakers in Congress became critical of the war's management, and growing numbers of politicians were urging Bush to replace Democrats will run the zon and prepare our leave. Rumsfeld. House and perhaps the nation to meet them. Bob "It will be a different 
Bush said Robert Gates, Senate. Rumsfeld had a Gates is the right man to Congress, a different 63, a former CIA director rocky relationship with meet both of these critical environment, moving who has served in numer­many lawmakers. challenges," Bush said. toward a presidential ous national security jobs "Secretary Rumsfeld But showing he would election and a lot of parti­under six previous presi­and I agreed that some­not roll over to those sanship, and it struck me dents, would be nominat­times it's necessary to pushing for a quick U.S. that this would be a good ed to replace Rumsfeld. have a fresh perspective," withdrawal, Bush also thing for everybody," Gates, currently the pres­Bush said in the abrupt said, ''I'd like our troops Rumsfeld told reporters. ident of Texas A&M announcement during a to come home, too, but I Pentagon spokesman University, is a Bush fam­postelection news confer­want them to come home Bryan Whitman said ily friend and a member ence. with victory." Rumsfeld was not leaving of an independent group In a later appearance at In brief remarks, immediately. Rumsfeld studying the way ahead the White House with Rumsfeld described the planned to deliver a in Iraq. Rumsfeld and Gates, Bush Iraq conflict as a "little speech Thursday at 
Bush clearly was hoping thanked Rumsfeld for his understood, unfamiliar Kansas State University that replacing Humsfeld service and predicted that war" that is "complex for on the global fight against with Gates would provide Gates would bring new people to comprehend." terrorism. impetus for a fresh start ideas. Upon his return to the Just last week Bush told on U.S. policy and a "The secretary of Pentagon after appearing reporters he expected chance to establish a defense must be a man of with Bush and Gates, Rumsfeld, 74, to remain stronger rapport with the VISIOn who can see Rumsfeld said it was a until the end of the new Congress, in which threats still over the hori-good time for him to administration's term. 

PAKISTAN 


42 killed in Pakistan suicide attack 
rity forces and Islamic militants along of the wounded were in critical condi­
Associated Press 
the rugged border, and sparked fears tion. 

DARGA! -In the deadliest suicide that the war in Afghanistan may be Dargai is considered a stronghold of attack on the Pakistani military, a spilling into Pakistan, a key U.S. ally the outlawed Islamic group Tehrik-e­man with explosives strapped to his in the war on terror. Nifaz-e-Shariat Mohammadi, whose body ran up to soldiers doing calis­About 200 soldiers were exercising fugitive leader, Faqir Mohammed, is a thenics Wednesday and blew himself at an army training center in Dargai, close associate of al-Qaida deputy up, killing at least 42 troops and a town 60 miles north of the capital of chief Ayman al-Zawahri. wounding 20. the North West Frontier Province, The Bush administration con­
No one claimed responsibility for the when the attacker struck. demned the suicide attack and offered attack, but suspicion fell on pro­"A man wrapped in a cloak came condolences to families and friends of Taliban militants who had vowed running into the training area and the dead and wounded. "We applaud revenge for an airstrike that killed at exploded himself where recruits had the government of Pakistan's determi­least 80 people on a Muslim school the gathered for training," a military nation and resolve to fight against ter­government said was being used to statement said. ror," White House spokesman Gordon train militants. Information Minister Mohammed Ali Johndroe said. "We stand with the 
The violence marked an escalation Durrani said 42 soldiers died and 20 government and people of Pakistan in in the conflict between Pakistani secu-were wounded. The army said some this struggle." 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 9, 2006 
in which a student is asked to analyze a given prompt.
LSAT 

Beginning in June 2007, the continued from page 1 argument prompt will be 
eliminated, Baron said. total amount of reading in the The elimination of one type reading comprehension sec­of prompt means that stu­tion will remain essentially dents now only have to pre­the same," the LSAC Web site pare for one type of question, reads. he said. 
While a few of the questions "Now everybody will be about the comparative read­assigned a decision prompt," ing section pair may concern Preacher said. "I think [the only one of the passages, change may come I in part most questions will ask about because it may have been both passages and their rela­somewhat confusing to stu­tion to one another, according dents before and they didn't to the Web site. quite get what the difference 
Though the change directly was." affects only six or seven ques­While the writing sample is 
tions,  Baron  unscored,  
said a  student's  Preacher said  
score -which can range from 120 to 180­ "The LSACis constantly trying to  it still plays a critical role in admissions.  
could vary by three to six points depend­ing on his work  find ways to make the test more predictive oflaw  According to a 2006 LSAC survey of 157 U.S. and  
in the section.  school success. "  Canadian  
While  a  schools, nearly  
three-point dif­ference would  Ben Baron  all law schools use the  
still be within a  vice president  unscored por­ 
student's score margin, a six­ Kaplan  tion exam  of the in some  
point different  way, Preacher  
would be dra­ said.  When  

matic, said Ava Preacher, pre­asked how often the writing law advisor at Notre Dame. sample is used in evaluating a 
"The LSAC is constantly try­candidate for admission, 9. 9 ing to find ways to make the percent said always, 25.3 test more predictive of law percent said frequently, 32.7 school success," Baron said. percent said occasionally, "[The LSAC is] looking to find 25.3 percent said seldom and the best kinds of questions to 6.8 percent said never. ask." The June 2007 exam is a 
The new questions are ones significant one, Baron said, as that the LSAC, which repre­it tends to be the first date for sents all law schools, believes that particular year's cycle of will correlate with the type of potential law school appli­reading required in law cants. school, Baron said. "I don't think they've been 
"You will be reading various made aware of the changes," cases and doing analyses," Preacher said about Notre Preacher said. Dame students applying to 
A significant change was law schools or considering also made to the essay sec­taking the LSAT. tion. LSAT test takers are In 2004-05 academic year, required to complete a writ­there were more than ing sample the day of the 110,000 different LSAT test exam -and though the sam­takers, including 439 from ple is unscored, it is included Notre Dame. with the scores when they are The LSAT is required by all reported to law schools. 194 law schools approved by 
In the past, there were two the American Bar potential types of prompts -Association. a decision prompt, in which a For students currently con­student is asked to make a sidering taking the test, choice among a couple of Baron said the December or options and defend one opin­February tests are a good ion; and an argument prompt, idea, as the student has time 
The CY-\;1\'\PUS SHOPP€5 Plaza " . 
\ , ; ' (•••ill! Stnil•• Bngcl~ 1111ii :Siilii·r~n lhl' :Bt~~l) !' '-:[:'' · 
Angel Nails Spa 
Hours1 

1813 South 13€md }\venue 
MOiiJ~Stdu~y.'(Otnnc-ilpm 

South Bendi<VN 46637Sunday 1Qvm-.5pm Y (574) 271.;/fwo 
Limited time offers for students: 10% off with a Full Service. 


EMBASSY SUITES HOTEL® LAX South 
• 
SPECIAL RATES FOR NOTRE DAME • (310) 640-3600 


• 
$114 per suite per night (up to 2 guests) + 8.09% Tax 

• 
$10 per additional guest-up to 4 guests per suite • Nov 17-26, 2006 

• 
Complimentary breakfast and cocktail reception daily 

• 
Spacious two room suites in a tropical atrium setting 

• 
20 minutes from the LA Coliseum 


• 
Close to nearby beaches, shopping and restaurants 

• 
Complimentary airport shuttle 



Call 1-800-EMBASSY and mention "UNO" booking code. www.laxsouth.embassysuites.com 
to prepare without the level time soon, largely because of of unpredictability that may the high volume of test-tak­come with the newly format­ers. ted exam. Securing the computers and 
"The whole idea of prepar­scheduling test times, ing for a standardized test is Preacher said, would also add to take out all tho unfamiliar­an extra burden. ity," he said. "Plus, most students are 
Preparation, in whatever used to taking paper and pon­form a studon,t chooses, is d! tests," she said. 
key,  Preacher  No  matter  the  
said. "I always tell  "It may be the only  format, Baron said in the more  
students that they should pre­pare before they walk into the  time in your life that you have the freedom to do what  competitive pro­grams, it is not unusual for an LSAT score to  
room. I don't care how they prepare, but they have to  you want to do without any strings."  make up as much as 50 percent of an admissions decision.  
devote tho time  "It is critically  
to adequately prepare," Preacher said,  Ava Preacher pre-law advisor  important," Baron said. "In fact, the LSAT is really  
adding that she  unique in terms of  
normally recom­ graduate admis­ 
mends  four  sions  tests  in  

hours of studying a week for terms of how important it is tho four months prior to the in the admissions process." test, minimum. Though she did say that the 
The entirely paper-based LSAT is "significant," test will still be offered only Preacher added that "it's not 
·four times a year -in huge." 
December, February, June "What it does is change the 
and September -despite range of law schools that you 
recent changes to the Medical can consider," Preacher said. 
College Admission Test "In other words if you get a 
(MCAT) making it both com­160, Harvard, Stanford and 
puterized and offered more Yale are going to be a stretch 
frequently. unless you have something 
"The GRE is on computer, really remarkable to offer ... the GMAT is on computer, the that's not to say they don't MCAT is on computer," Baron take someone with 160." said. "The LSAT is not and Baron said a candidate's there are no current plans to grade point average (GPA), move it. I think they feel that quality application and per­the test works fine ... to pre­sonal statement are all dict academic success in law important for admissions. school. As an organization, While the type of prepara­that's ultimately their respon­tion for tho exam will not sibility to administer a quality change dramatically, the lack test." of study material could pose a 
Preacher said at pre-law problem, Baron said, as the advisor conferences, the pre­new sections have never been law liaison continually on the exam previously. assures advisors that the test Still, Baron said that "every will not go to computer any type of change imaginable" has been seen before and the test should not have a huge effect on the number of law school applicants. 
In the entering class of 2004 -the most recent year for which Preacher has fig­ures -there were 470 law school applicants from Notre Dame, of which 182 were seniors and 288 were non­seniors. 
"In the 2004 entering class, the average LSAT of all appli­cants was 159, for seniors the average was 160.4 and for non-seniors 158.2," Preacher said. 
Despite the high numbers ­which Baron said places Notre Dame high nationally among numbers of law school applicants -Preacher said the University is experiencing a decrease. 
"By all accounts, it's drop­ping," Preacher said. "We had a peak in 2003 or 2004, but now we're seeing a drop." 
Preacher said the drop in law school applicants from Notre Dame may have some­thing to do with the economy, and that people "tend to apply to law school because it is a secure profession." 
Not that she sees the drop as a bad thing. Preacher said she is notorious for advising students to take time off before heading to law school. 
"It may be the only time in your life that you have the freedom to do what you want to do without any strings," she said. "I think it also gives you the chance to be absolutely certain that law school is what you want. 
''I'm seeing more and more students who are taking time off, but we still have many who go directly in." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 


Thursday, November 9, 2006 


Dow 
12,176.54 +19.77

Jones 
Up: Same: Down: CDmposite Volume: 2,047 149 1,197 2,861,952,650







-I;( .... 
+1~J29 

;;.iiilt1i11l!i!\r~lt~,,~~~~~m•,lillllialll~l~l,~,!!tl'i!!lll,ill411
S&PSOO 1,385.72 +2.88 Ni~(fol<yoJ '.· ;:l;ttlllwll\l!llllllli!ll;ll~$1, FTSE IOO(Lonclon) 6,239.00 -5.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  +0.47  +0.20  43.03  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.43  -0.09  20.71  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -0.37  -0.02  S.45  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.10  +0.03  28.98  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -0.56  -0.026  4.633  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.30  +0.015  4.960  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.55  -0.026  4.730  
5-YEARNOTE  -0.65  -0.030  4.602  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.90  59.83  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -9.40  618.30  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.18  91.03  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  117.8650  
EURO  0.7834  
POUND  0.5252  
CANADIAN$  1.1312  

IN BRIEF 
UnitedHealth stocks messy since 2004 
MINNEAPOLIS -UnitedHealth Group Inc. warned investors on Wednesday that its stock option fiasco will cost much more than the $286 million it previously estimated, and said it would restate earnings all the way back to 1994. 
The company's chief financial officer also resigned but will be assuming unspecified operational duties at the nation's second largest health insurer. 
UnitedHealth said it has found problems with its handling of stock options as late as the end of 2005. 
The company said it expects to take paper losses on prior earnings to account for stock options, and that it would take cash charges to pay the potential tax bill. It said it doesn't yet know how much those charges will be. 
In May, UnitedHealth estimated that options­related restatements could slice $286 million from earnings from 2003 to 2005. On Wednesday it said it anticipates the final figure "will be significantly greater" than that. 
Democratic win causes Wall Street rise 
NEW YORK -Wall Street rose for a third straight session Wednesday, with the Dow Jones industrials reaching another record close as investors grew more confident that a huge victory by Democrats in congressional elections would result in gridlock and keep lawmakers out of the way of business interests. 
The market had largely expected Democrats to gain control of the House of Representatives, but an undecided Senate race in Virginia had, during early trading, unnerved investors who dislike such uncertainty. Stocks showed gains following the announcement that Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld will resign. 
Some investors saw "headline risk" from Wednesday's news but expect that Wall Street will quickly get back to business. 
"I would think over the next several weeks that investors should return their focus to the likelihood for interest rate moves in the decel­erating economic climate, the moderating earnings growth and the weakening housing market," said Elizabeth Weymouth, global investment specialist at JPMorgan Private Bank. 
THE 0HSERVER 



USINESS 
page 7 

Pelosi presents economic agenda 
Democrats propose lower prescription drug costs, increase of minimum wage 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The new masters of the House, the Democrats, are promot­ing an economic agenda that would put more money in the pockets of ordinary citizens and government, while leading to greater oversight of big business. 
California Rep. Nancy Pelosi, who is in line to become speaker, has prom­ised to fight early on in the next Congress to lower the price of prescription drugs available through Medicare. Efforts to curb military spending are also likely, political and financial ana­lysts said, following an elec­tion whose outcome was influenced in large part by voters' dissatisfaction with the handling of the war in Iraq. 
But with the two parties stalemated in the Senate, where it usually takes 60 votes to pass major legisla­tion, the pharmaceutical and defense industries may fmd themselves beset more by unwelcome rhetoric in Congress than any hurtful changes in law. 

To be sure, few major changes in corporate America are expected to result from Democrat-led initiatives over the next two years -with the exception of a proposed increase in the minimum wage that Washington Analysis. increase drillers' taxes by tax cuts, said Kevin Hassett, may get substantial That's because Pelosi has $1 billion a year. the director of economic Republican support. promised legislation that Generally speaking, policy studies at the 
The long-term outlook for would allow the government Democrats have said they American Enterprise companies in the biotech­to negotiate directly with will differ from Republicans Institute and an adviser to nology and homeland secu­drug companies to purchase by being tougher watchdogs President Bush's 2004 re­rity businesses may benefit, medicines for Medicare, a of corporate wrongdoing election campaign. analysts said, from antici­process the drug industry and government spending However, lobbyists said pated Democratic efforts to equates to price controls. and bigger defenders of con­they do not expect the promote stem-cell research Pelosi has pledged that sumers and labor unions. intense partisanship that and inspect more cargo con­Democrats would move to Still, "there are not going defined recent campaigns to tainers at ports. And the raise the minimum wage -to be wholesale changes in last very long. alternative energy sector a policy change that could economic policy" because Sure, the Democrats will could also get a boost. affect fast-food restaurants neither party has an over­want to distinguish them­
But heightened scrutiny of such as McDonald's Corp., whelming majority in either selves from the Republicans other sectors, ranging from as well as other retailers. the House or Senate -and early on -by shifting the drugs to defense to hedge Ballot measures that man­this may explain the stock emphasis in energy policy funds, could darken their date increases in existing market's recent strength, from, say, increasing the prospects on Wall Street. state minimum wage laws according to Wachovia supply of oil to reducing the 
"The drug industry is on passed in Arizona, Missouri Securities economist Mark demand for it. But pragma­the top of the list of indus­and Montana, among other Vitner. tism -and an eye toward tries that would be uncom­states. Alaska voters, mean­One way Democrats can the 2008 presidential elec­fortable if Democrats are while, helped protect the assert themselves is by tion -will naturally pull successful in the elections," pockets of Big Oil by shoot­spoiling the prospects for both parties closer to the said Ira Loss, an analyst at ing down a proposal to renewal of President Bush's center, these lobbyists said. 

Billionaire, magnatebid onTribune Co. 
Associated Press pany came as a surprise. the bid. 
Broad declined to comment on the Tribune's holdings include 11 
LOS ANGELES -Billionaire busi­report. A call to Burkle's office was daily newspapers, 25 TV stations, nessman Eli Broad and supermar­not immediately returned. the Chicago Cubs baseball team, ket magnate Ron Burkle have The bid came a day after Chicago­Internet ventures and sizable stakes teamed up to submit a bid for the based Tribune Co. replaced Dean in the Food Network and the online Tribune Co., The Associated Press Baquet as editor of the Los Angeles classified advertising venture has learned. Times because he refused to make CareerBuilder. 
Details of the offer by the compa­mandated cost cuts at the paper. Along with the Times and the nies controlled by the two business­Broad and Burkle have long said Chicago Tribune, the company owns men were not disclosed. they would be interested in return­Newsday in New York, The 
A person familiar with the offer, ing the Times to local ownership. Baltimore Sun, South Florida Sun­who wa's not authorized to publicly A third billionaire, entertainment Sentinel, Orlando Sentinel and The discuss it, confirmed Wednesday mogul David Geffen, is known to be Hartford Courant. the bid had been submitted. interested in buying the Times. A Tribune tried selling the company 
Broad and Burkle had been call to his office was not immediate­after being pressured by discontent­expected to bid for the Los Angeles ly returned. ed shareholders amid plunging cir­Times, the Tribune's largest proper­Tribune Co. spokesman Gary culation and a decrease in advertis­ty. The joint bid for the entire com-Weitman declined to comment on ing revenue at its newspapers. 
.--------­
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 9, 2006 
Opus 
continued from page 1 
volunteers, calling them "true anonymous heroes." 
"They always want to learn more so that they are able to save more lives," she said. 
The Office of Farmworkers Ministry (OFFM) and Cristo Rey Network -two other Opus Prize finalists -were each rewarded $100,000 for their charitable work. 
OFFM received an award for its work with struggling farm workers in Apopka, Fla. and Cristo Rey Network was rewarded for its work in pro­viding a first-rate high school education for economically dis­advantaged youths in cities across America. 
Sister Ann Kendrick was pre­sented the $100,000 award for OFFM. 
"Tonight all of us honoring the people ... who are making a difference ... who look at the reality of the material poor who say we can do better than this," she said. 
Rev. John Foley accepted the award for Cristo Rey Network, and said he never thought the Network, which is on track to educate 12,000 students annu­ally by 2012, would achieve such a level of success. 
"The first day we opened school, I wanted to hide under the desk because I had no idea whether it was going to work or not," he said. 
The Student Opus Prize was awarded to junior Benjamin Gunty for co-founding Artisan Opportunities International, Inc. (AOI). AOI's goal is to battle poverty in Latin America by teaching individuals how to make quality hammocks that can be sold. 
Junior Brian Brownschidle, accepted the award for Gunty, who is studying abroad in Angers, France. 
Reading from a statement composed by Gunty, Brownschidle asked the youth in the audience to "make a pos­itive difference." 


Smokey 

"There's far too much to be done in this promising age to let our own potential to go idle," he read. "To everyone else, I ask you to believe in us relentlessly, listen to us eritical­ly, engage us lovingly and above all else, lead us by your experience." 
University President Father John Jenkins had words of praise for the award winners and encouraged everyone pres­ent to be inspired by them. 
"They are people of faith ... they have faith, a real joy and thankfulness in their service," he said. 
Jenkins said the award recip­ients are a living witness of Jesus' words in that giving one will receive. 
"I hope each of you were inspired by these awardees," he said. "And I hope leach of] you will go forth this year and the rest of your life following their example." 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 


Bones 
Penalty 
continued from page 1 
between former divorce cases he handled and death penalty cases. In the divorce cases, he risked disbarment if he suggested to his client that she get revenge for adultery by harming her husband or destroying his belongings, he said. 
"All of a sudden, when it comes to a murder case, we are saying revenge is good ­it heals," Brooks said. 
But in his experience from talking to victims' families, the death of their loved one's murderer doesn't heal their pain, he said. 
Brooks, the second speaker in a six-part lecture series on the death penalty spon­sored by Notre Dame Against State Killing (NDASK), esti­mated he has ministered to more than 1,000 people accused of murder. He said he opposes the death penalty 

One of the few places to watch the 
N.D. vs. A. F. game 
Airing at 4:00 p.m. Come for great food, drinks and the game. 
4010 N. Main Street in Mishawaka 
Thursday, November 9, 2006 119 O'Shaugnessy 6:00-8:00 PM 
The purposeof this fomm will be toprovide students with information about sources of funding for undergraduate research. Six undergraduate recipients of these awards \Vill speakabout their experience ofwriting proposals, conducting their research, and seeing their projects to completion. Food will be provided. 
Sponsored by the Office of Undergraduate Studies in the College of Arts and Letters. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
COl.l.EGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 

because he does not believe the government has the right to kill people to punish them for their crimes. 
"They are a child of God, and we don't have the right to take their life away," Brooks said. Scripture -as far back to the story of Cain and Abel -makes a case against use of the death penalty when read in con­text, Brooks said. 
"We have a history of peo­ple in Scripture who later on turn their lives around," Brooks said. "Had they been executed, what would have happened?" 
The reason why the death penalty should not exist in the U.S. was clearly expressed in Pope John Paul II's 1995 encyclical, "Evangelium vitae," Brooks said. In this document, the pope said the death penalty should not be used unless it was otherwise impossible to protect society from the con­victed criminals. 
In the United States, the prison systems are capable of containing threats, Brooks said. 
But these religious argu­ments can fail to persuade people who support the use of the death penalty to alter their convictions, he said. That's why anti-death penal­ty advocates need to give them the facts. 
"I think once people know the facts it is almost impossi­ble for any reasonable per­son to be in favor of the death penalty," Brooks said. 
Many death penalty oppo­nents fall into the trap of portraying the person on death row as a hero, he said. 
"Some of them just aren't," Brooks said. 
An indisputable argument against the death penalty, he said, is that executing some­one costs over a million dol­lars more than to imprison a convicted criminal for life without parole. 
Brooks said he believes the death penalty is not a deter­rent to potential murderers or rapists. Crimes happen spontaneously, he said, and most eriminals don't expect to be caught. 
Another argument against capital punishment is that inaccurate eye witness accounts and lack of DNA evidence can lead to irre­versible sentences, Brooks said. 
"We have flaws in the sys­tem that are so deep that the likelihood of an erroneous conviction is very high," he said. 
Brooks was involved in establishing a moratorium on the death penalty in Illinois. lie served as the president of the Illinois Coalition against the Death Penalty from 2000-02. Brooks received a Special Award for Work on the Issue of Capital Punishment from the Association of Chicago Priests and was named Catholic Lawyer of the Year by the Chicago Catholic Workers Guild in 2000. 
NDASK plans to hold four more lectures to discuss the death penalty this fall. Former Indiana Gov. Joe Kernan will speak Nov. 15 at 
7:30 p.m. in the Hammes Student Lounge of the Coleman-Morse Center. Kernan will discuss his deci­sion to commute two death sentences while he was gov­ernor. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

Thursday, November 9, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

Fundraising ideas included co-sponsorship of events ranging from benefit concerts to special athletic activities. 
Faith initiatives, led by sen­ior Andy Laughton, are expected to include Theology on Tap relating to the global 
published in local newspa­pers encouraging community members to get involved. 
Golbabai and Hambley said similar meetings w.ould con­tinue on Wednesday nights for the rest of the semester and that student leaders are 
health crisis and a campus mass at the Basilica. 
Senior Teresa Hagen said there is a possi­bility of develop­ing a global health minor in the Notre Dame curriculum, which might fall under the College of Arts and Letters. 
"If we all work together we,re going to come up with something 
great.,, 
Amanda Golbabai senior 
Similar programs are cur­rently in existence at Northwestern and Emory. 
Politically, organizers expressed interest in working with residence halls to write letters to congressmen or senators on the health crisis. In a similar vein, organizers said they hope to have letters 
encouraged to attend as their schedules allow. 
"The turnout was fantastic," Golbabai said. "I assure you, there's a place for everybody to get involved." 
Student organi­zations were told they could con­tribute in several different ways, 
from planning different events to co-sponsoring and making small donations to sending leaders or represen­tatives to help accomplish collective goals. 
Contact Joe Piarulli jpiarnll@nd.edu 
i 
1 
! 
~ 
! l 
~ 
1 52694 State noacl 933 1 South Bencl. Indiana 46637 i 
i 
Just2 miles north ol Notre Game on U.S. 31 ;


L=---------=--------------=--=---4 


THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, November 9, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Not<e Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNFSS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacd 
Mary Kate Malone 
VIEWPOINT EDrroR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY's EDrroR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Menndla 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: JeffAlbert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CoNTROll.ER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAitiT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily new5paper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not govemed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofTbe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Questions regarding Obserwrpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chiif Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599" 2-4000) is published Monda-y through Friday ~pt during -exam -and vacation periods. A s~cription ro The Observer is .$1 00 f(Jr one a!;ademic year; $55 fur one semelirer. 
The Obstmr-is published. -at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre 0""<. JN 46SS64J779 The Ob.er= 
PcrioWcll postage paid at Notre Dame ~0. Box T/9 
omd addici-onod mailing offices. 024 Souch Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, lN 46556-077.9 
The Obsemr is a member ufthe Associated Ptes~. All reproduction ri~ts. are rescrnd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Sports  
Amanda Michaels  Eric Retter  
Laura  Chris Hine  
Baumgartner  Chris Wilson  
Liz Harter  Scene  
Viewpoint  Erin McGinn  
Alyssa  
Brauweiler  
Graphics  
Madeline Nies  

'The caf was nast, so I came back to rejuv. I guess it was dece. But whatevs, this pape is totes not my fav, you under? I mean, obvs!" 
If this sample snippet of conversation puzzles you, allow 
me to play linguistic interlocutor for a moment. The speak­er begins the dia­logue -ifit can be called that. I guess it appears almost solil­oquizing, so pro­

foundly elegant is the 
James
tormented inner 

Dechant
anguish that the speaker communi­Foregone cates by noting that Conclusion the cafeteria (or appropriate eating establishment) was "nast" -that is to say, nasty. After dis­covering that said food did not meet taste standards, the speaker returned to his or her abode to rejuvenate and gather strength, probably exhausted from the mental exertion necessary to speak like this. 
The following sentence continues the laconic report on the speaker's feelings, substituting the conveniently concise "dece" for the much more obtrusive and unwieldy "decent." The speaker then switches subjects and dismisses (employ­ing "whatevs" for "whatever") the press­ing assignment at hand, a paper of unfa­vorable repute, whlch is totally not his or her favorite. The speaker gauges the lis­tener's response by asking a comprehen­sion interrogative: "You under(stand)?" Being assured of the listener's under­standing, the speaker then interjects an exclamatory exasperation, remarking how obvious her comments are (and opt­ing for the more pithy "obvs" over the disyllabic "obvi"). 
Obvs, indeed. 
I'll admit that maybe I haven't heard these phrases exactly as given above. Sticking so many atrocious colloquialisms 



Totally dece 
in such close proximity would probably 
leave even the speaker wondering exactly. 
what had just been said. But I assure you 
that I have heard every one of these slang 
terms used in separate conversations, 
usually surrounded by a handful of simi­
lar words. (Well, okay, so I made up 
"under," but I can see somebody using 
that. Can't you?) 
Why do people talk like this? Numerous 
case studies have left scientists stumped. 
My own theory is that the degeneration of 
language in our age arises from the fact 
that we are just plain busier than any age 
before us. I mean, there are a lot of 
shows on TV. A lot. If you want to watch 
even a fraction, you have to learn to flip 
channels pretty fast. And if you want to 
write about them, what do you use? 
That's right, a keyboard. Those things 
are covered in buttons -I mean, how 
many letters can there be? The old­
timers had it so much each easier with 
their quaint pencils and paper. In this day 
and age, it's really a great burden to 
always be so occupied. 
Therefore, sacrifices have to be made. 
What's something else we all do these 
days, besides watch television and get on 
our computers? That's right: talk. And 
with so many TV shows to talk about, 
there's just never enough time. Other 
generations had their slang, their jive, 
their jargon, their jibber-jabber-and 
those all worked fine. But today, we need 
a language that can really capture the 
essence of our busy lives. We need a 
dialect that gets right down to the point, 
without wasting time on extraneous syl­
lables. 

And so we have one of the capstones of 
linguistic development in the past 
decade. Or century. Or ... ever. If you lind 
yourself still struggling with this new 
slang, don't worry, I'm seeking to remedy 
that here. Let's try working with another 
codex: 

"Anys, I've def gotta hit the lib. B.T. 
dubs, that teev show was soo sketch. 
Watch it later? Yeah, probs. You're welcs. 
Alright, outy." 
The speaker here transitions smoothly from a previous conversation to the exchange at hand using "anys," the trun­cated version of "anyway." He or she must most certainly visit the library. A side comment is introduced by a two-lay­ered curtailing "B.T. dubs." Thls unique construction is no solecism, but rather a highly intricate code for the letters "btw." This abbreviation, one we can all thank the Internet for giving us, means "by the way." 
Moving on, the speaker forsakes the traditional shortening of television to TV (far too cumbersome) in favor of combin­ing the two letters and dropping the final diphthong. Sketch stands in for sketchy, a term with which everyone is surely famil­iar. The fmal few coded terms should reveal themselves easily by now: "probs" for "probably," "welcs" for the extremely awkward and tiring "you're welcome," and "outy" for ''I'm out," a fittingly abridged adieu for such a condensed con­versation. 
This new manner of speaking isn't easy to grasp at first, and language depart­ments nationwide lack funding to ade­quately develop effective translation guides. I hope this brief primer will be but the first step in an intrepid age of exciting advancements in linguistic theo­ry. 
Thanks to Kyoko and Elizabeth for pro­viding many of the idiosyncratic words and terms used above, and thanks to the countless linguistic revolutionaries with­out whose inspiration and prescient understanding of language's bold new direction I could never have written this interpretive key. 
Outy. 
James Dechant is a june Eng and Thee maj. You can eem him at jdechant@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
Do you think the decision to give graduate students access to USC tickets was the correct one? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

~s·· b · · t·· · ~·
!liD :nn·t·· ~. :Qt·t·e·..;r!···· ~: 
;:1 ·.. ·''·.·· .· ·······,. ··.··· .·. U ............ t .........·. f;
'to the Editor at I
... '· ··. ·... . ·· .. '· !• 

www.ndsmcobserver.com ~~ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Here is the test to find whether your mission on earth is finished: ifyou're alive, it isn't. " 
Richard Bach American author 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, November 9, 2006 page 11 
"How about sex." That sentence (or actually, sentence fragment) comes from one of the students who wrote me after my last column, in which I wondered what topics undergraduates would find helpful, particularly in their lives of faith. That same student also told me that my writ­ing was too boring to hold people's attention, so I thought I'd try to pull Kate you in right from the start. Barrett 
"It's time for a new approach to the 
FaithPoint

talk about sex," this person continued. Yikes. I'm going to have to save that topic until I can give it some more thought. What would my new approach be? I'd want to be careful; the wrong kind of column and I could lose my job ... though come to think of it, then I wouldn't have to worry any more about what I'd write. 
Another student told me that most people don't really read The Observer, they just sort of skim it while they eat lunch and then throw it in the recycling bin on their way out of the dining hall. She'd love to give me some ideas for future topics, she said, but she was too busy and had to go write a paper. I did realize from her e-mail that I often read materials that aren't my top priority that way too -in a multi-tasking sort of way, claiming to myself that I'll get back to it more carefully later. My usual excuse for the careless first read and the often-forgotten second read? ''I'm too busy!" 
Believe it or not, being too busy came up in more e-mails I received than any other single topic; yes, even more often than sex. Most people talk about how busy they are while bemoaning the fact; you may even know (as I do) some people who are downright whiny about how high they have climbed on the "busy-meter." Maybe you've been a busy 
'Busy' is no excuse 
whiner yourself (as I have). 

I would like to propose that being busy -even being too busy-has the potential to be a very good thing. Your schedule, and your attitude toward the way you spend your time, tells you exactly what your real priorities are, no mat­ter what you say they are. A former teacher cifmine used to say that you can tell what a person values by looking in their checkbook register, though I suppose now she would have to say their debit card record. I say you can also tell by looking at someone's calendar. There's a level of honesty present in how you spend your time that you cannot deny. 
For most of us, one main demand, usually our chosen vocation or profession, takes up the bulk of our time. Whether we would consider being "student" or "faculty," "rector" or "staff member" or "parent" our main responsi­bility, we must give that aspect of our lives many hours each day. However, that one aspect of life isn't usually what puts us over the edge into the zone of the "too busy." Come on-even the most serious student around here participates in a few other activities outside of class and studying. 
So what do you consider your highest values? What-or who -is most important to you? Does the way you spend your time each day reflect that? Now, you don't necessarily have to spend the most time each day on what's most important to you. You can be very committed to your faith without spending hours each day in prayer and service. You can believe that staying fit and healthy is important without spending the entire afternoon each day in the gym. However, can you really say that your faith means a lot to you ifyou don't take time to pray during the day; ifyou find excuses to miss Mass sometimes; ifyou never participate in the opportunities for service presented through the Center 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A wotnan's view on Plan B 

Editor's note: This letter originally appeared in the Nov. 7 edition of The Observer. but was incorrectly attributed to Shawn Ahmed. 
I would like to add a female voice to the discussion concerning Plan B. In Andrew Rosatostates' Letter to the Editor ("Plan B destroys embryo in some cases," Nov. 3), he writes, "Taking Plan B causes the destruc­tion of a human embryo in those cases where it prevents its implantation." The use of the word "destruction" is a bit strong. If Plan B were a pill full of microscopic men with machetes and machine guns being transported directly to the uterus with the sole purpose of mutilating a fertilized egg, then "destruction" might be appropriate. But from my understanding, that is not the case. 
Emergency contraceptives are to be used in case of an emergency (what a concept). Condoms fail. The pill fails. Furthermore, aren't those also ways of preventing preg­nancy? Plan B is the second choice to pre­venting pregnancies when previous efforts break or when your mother-in-law manipu­lates your birth control pill a la Desperate Housewives. 
The distributors of Plan B do not deny the possibility of preventing the implantation of an embryo in the uterus, therefore neither will I. They do, however, confess that there is no evidence proving that Plan B will harm the fetus (nor the woman, but she's usually not the issue in these arguments) during early pregnancy. You see, friends, an embryo is not a pregnancy until it is implanted in the uterus. An abortifacient is something that terminates a pregnancy, not something that prevents an embryo from attaching to the uterus. 
So, riddle me this: Doesn't every embryo have the same possibility of not implanting, with or without the super dose of hor­mones? 
Pregnancy is such a fickle thing; some­times it lasts nine months, sometimes it doesn't. When attacking Plan B, please keep in mind that the Food and Drug Administration and the manufacturers of Plan B are required to state that it may pre­vent implantation. There is no indisputable video evidence for either side, thus the call on the field must stand. This is the same FDA that has to warn you that your Viagra may cause blindness. But, then again, what do I know? I'm just a woman and it's just my body. 
Renee Woodward junior Saint Mary's Nov. 3 
for Social.Concerns? Can you really say that you value your health ifyou rarely-or never-make the time to exer­cise? Ifyou're always "too busy" to do something you say you really value, then face it. You just don't value that thing as much as you claim to. 
My husband has a rule of thumb for whenever either of us is asked to commit our time to anything new. Whenever we say "yes" to something new, he reminds me, we have to drop an existing activity to make room for it. His policy is a good one, in part because we're both busy, but also because it forces us to prioritize. How much do we want to say "yes" to this new opportunity? Enough to drop some­thing we're already doing? When we follow his plan we stay out of the trap of mindlessly saying yes just because it sounds good to us, or because (the slyest trap of all) we're flattered to be asked. Saying "yes" in this way keeps me attentive to the fact that really, whenever we say yes to something, we're saying no to something else. Even in our multi-multi-tasking society, we must make choices. Those choices give a much more honest accounting of our true priorities than what we claim to hold dear. 
ln any environment filled with successful people, as Notre Dame is, a person's level of busy-ness can often become (falsely) equated with how important or how valuable they are. Don't be fooled. God knows how priceless each one of us is and wants us to use the precious gift of each day with wisdom and love -and probably not at breakneck speed. 
This week's FaithPoint is written by Kate Barrett, director ofresources and special projects in the Office ofCampus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Rethink definitions 

Ignorance can be bliss, but misinformation is scarring. There have been many opinions given on the ethics of the "Plan B" emergency contraceptive pill, but it seems moral thought keeps slipping through the cracks, as shown by the view given in "A woman's view on Plan B." The main view given by this submis­sion was that Plan B does not cause abortions since the embryo .never implants on the uterine wall, which is the medical defini­tion of pregnancy. Yet, definitions can be very misleading things. 
Until very recently in human history, life was not thought to begin until a child emerged from its mother's womb. Presently, however, a premature fetus can be taken fr_om its mother and with modern technology can survive at an age that never would have been possible before. When dealing with medical defini­tions, a person must use caution and not accept everything on faith. With this said, the only non-arbitrary point in a child's development where life can be said to begin is conception. Furthermore, Plan B does actively prevent an embryo from implanting by changing the makeup of the uterine wall, contrary to what was said in that Viewpoint letter. 
Finally, also unlike Woodward's Letter to the Editor, if a drug even has the most remote possibility of ending a human life, in this case the embryo, then deference must be given to that life, whatever the chances. 
Ben White junior offcampus Nov. 8 

U-WIRE 
Dems must enact change 
In 2004, after receiving 51 percent of the vote, President Bush ran wild and declared a mandate. Tuesday, the American people spoke and repudiated that mandate, spanking Bush back into reality. 
The prediction of a Democratic wave proved to be true as it took back the Ho~se in_ startling Staff Editorial numbers. As of press time, 1t also looks as though Democrats will University of reclaim the Senate, proving the 2006 Wisconsin midterm elections truly became a ref­The Dailyerendum on the president. Cardinal According to CNN.com exit polls, 62 percent of voters said that national issues mattered more than local issues this year. Angry voters made their voices heard, shouting from the polls their extreme displeasure with the war in Iraq, 
the handling of the war on terrorism and corruption. 
The results show Americans are sick of one-party rule and wish to restore the system of checks and balances on which the U.S. Constitution was founded. 
Democrats, swept into power in the House, and maybe the Senate, by complaining and promising change, must now prove they deserve their new position oflegislative clout. The do-nothing Congress must finally do something, and we believe they will. 
U.S. Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., promised to drain the GOP "swamp" in her first 100 hours as speaker of the House. She plans to introduce legislation to decrease the influence of lobbyists, enact all of the recommendations from the 9/11 Commission, raise the minimum wage, cut interest rates on student loans, lower prescription drug prices and help advance federal funding of stem cell research. 
Most importantly, Democrats must introduce plans for the war in Iraq. We cannot remain stuck in the quagmire that is Iraq, but we also cannot withdraw all troops immediately. We need to draw up some type of exit strate­gy that will keep the peace and get us out of there. After years of clainling they can do better, the onus is on Democrats. 
One thing is for certain: Congress has put down the rub­ber stamp and the American people are better off for it. 
This editorial originally appeared in the Nov. 8 edition ofThe Daily Cardinal, the daily publication at the University ofWzsconsin. 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Thursday, November 9, 2006 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 

Cinematic Holocaust 
DPAC series to focus on films about 20th century tragedy 



By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
Beginning today, the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC) will host the film series, "Through the Eyes of Children: A Holocaust Film Series." The series examines perhaps the most tragic event of the 20th century through the eyes of those affected the most: the children who had to hide from -and, in some cases, confront -the horrors of the Nazi "fmal solution." 
The films selected depict children who were "plucked from their homes and stripped of their childhoods, the children had witnessed the murder of parents, sib­lings, and relatives," reads a release from the film, television and theatre depart­ment, which is hosting the event. "They faced starvation, illness and brutal labor, until they were consigned to the gas cham­bers." 
An exploration of the guiltless in a period of history fraught with guilt, crime and shame, this series will be an emotional and analytical event. How the lives of the chil­dren were changed and how modern audi­ences view their situations will be two of the multiple issues presented during this series. The films slated for screening include: 
Fateless (2005) 
Directed by Lajos Koltai, this recent film uses black and white, sepia and color film to explore the differing moods and situa­tions of Gyorgy Koves, the 14-year-old son of a Budapest merchant. Based on the novel by Nobel laureate lmre Kertesz, it tells the story of a youth who comes of age in Buchenwald learning how to maintain dignity in the face of complete hatred and oppression while dealing with his own growing hated. "Fateless" is a tapestry of the human emotions present in the chil­dren forced into the concentration camps. 
Everything is Illuminated (2005) 
Starring Elijah Wood and directed by Uev Schreiber, "Everything is Illuminated" is different from the other films in the series in that it does not take place during the Holocaust. Wood plays .Jonathan Safran Foer, a Jewish Ameriean who trav­els to Ukraine to find the woman who helped his grandfather flee Europe during World War II. 
Part comedy, albeit more drama, this film paints a somewhat fantastical world based in the teenage mind of Foer. However, some critics claim this only strengthens the emotional impact. Based on the eponymous novel, this film is not quite as ambitious as its source material but still succeeds in its own right. 
Come and See (1985) 
Directed by Elim Klimov, "Come and See" is, according to its press material, "a brutal condemnation of war." When a 12­year-old enlists in the Russian resistance to the Nazi invasion, his initial beliefs of bat­tlefield glory and fighting for his homeland soon become images of horror and terror when his family is slain and the reality of war sets in. While countless films have been made from the U.S. standpoint, exploring World War II from the Russian viewpoint is not something American audi­ences are used to seeing. A film from the perspective of the Eastern Front, which betrays the images of heroism and glory commonly associated with World War II films, is a perspective worth seeing. 

Au Revoir Les Enfants (Goodbye Children) (1987) 
At a French boarding school in Vichy France, two boys become friends -one Catholic, the other Jewish. Based on the childhood experiences of director Louis Malle, this microcosm of stories about Christians hiding and giving new identities to Jews during World War II is as moving as it is exploratory of the relationship between the two religions. While the Vatican is often condemned for its inaction, many Christians tried -successfully or unsuccessfully -to hide .Jews from the Gestapo. As the Catholic boy befriends his .Jewish classmate, the Catholic comes to realize what it means to be .Jewish during this period of history. 
Into the Arms of Strangers (2000) 
The only documentary in the film series, "Into the Arms of Strangers" explores the story of 10,000 Jewish children rescued from Germany, Austria and then­Czechoslovakia on the eve of the Holocaust. Directed by Mark .Jonathan Harris and narrated by Judi Deneb, it promises to give a more historical view of World War II and its impact on Jews, specifically Jewish children. The "kinder­transport" which saved these children was a type of underground railroad bringing .Jewish children from their home country to Great Britain where they lived through the duration of the war. It uses archival footage and interviews to tell the stories of the thousands saved. 
Europa, Europa (1990) 

"Europa, Europa" is based on the life of Solomon Perel, a Jew who hid his religious identity by joining the Hitler Youth to save his life. The film is based on Perel's autobi­ography and directed by Agnieszka Holland. Also written by Holland, it was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Writing Adapted Screenplay. Most of the film takes place on the Eastern front, so the German/Russian interplay, ignored in American cinema, plays an important role. This film also focuses on the Jewish situa­tion after the war and the Jews' mass migration to the British Mandate, which would become Israel in 1948. 
"Through the Eyes of Children" will be an important film series for the study of the Holocaust at Notre Dame. It brings in narrative film from Europeans only one or two generations removed from the horrors that plagued the European continent less than 70 years ago. Perhaps most impor­tantly, it includes perspectives from American Jews with all-too-fresh memo­ries of the time period. 
Exploring the Holocaust across national, religious and generational divides, the series reminds us lessons learned from the Holocaust are ones that should not be soon forgotten. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of movieweb.com Photo courtesy of dvdbeaver.com 
The only documentary in the Holocaust Film Series, "Into the Arms of Louis Malle's "Au Revoir Les Enfants" is about two friends, one Jewish, the other Strangers" explores the children who escaped Nazi controlled territories. Christian, who become friends at a French boarding school during WWII. 
-----------------, 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 13 
Thursday, November 9, 2006 
SAINT MARY'S SPOTLIGHT 
Celebrating Wendy, Saint Mary's style 
College to host humorous show honoring late playwright 


By MANDY STIRONE Scene Writer 
What started with a heartfelt expres­sion of regret for Wendy Wasserstein's untimely death in January of 2006 ulti­mately became a side-splitting selection of one-act plays by the late writer. Professor Katie Sullivan of the Saint Mary's Theatre Department has created a commemoration of Wasserstein shows, which will be shown in the· Moreau Theater at St. Mary's from tonight until Saturday. The show, called "Celebrating Wendy," shows off the ver­satility of the actors and the depth and variation of Wasserstein's imagination through her plays. 
Wasserstein's plays, all published together in 1999, ranged from a fantasy that included Wasserstein herself meet­ing her idol Bette Midler, to a little girl fighting with her father, to the re-writ­ing of a famous Greek Tragedy. They spanned decades and portrayed many types of women and men in various sce­narios. 
The various plays used a very "RENT" -like set in which various props were used as other parts of the scenery, as well as a similar small cast of actors playing several parts instead of an actor for each individual part. Costumes were unique and sometimes very glitzy. The tongue-in-cheek jokes and subtle humor all reflect Wasserstein's sense of humor and sarcasm. 
Full of song and dance, the cast and crew glides through the various plays with style and wit. After Sullivan's opening speech, a very ruffled looking Wasserstein, played by Christina Kloess, rushes on stage to begin the show. She and Bette, played by Monica Mastracco, grace the stage in-between each play, with Bette breaking into song each time, sometimes with Wendy accompanying her. They are also joined, in two instances, by a chorus, once only three girls, and finally with the entire cast. 
The one-acts begin then with "Boy meets Girl," narrated onstage by Bill Svelmoe and Lauren Mangiaforte. It tells the tale of two thirty-somethings, portrayed by Emily Rose Zandstra and Michael Girts, who become a couple. The sarcastic word play reflects the conflict between what the characters really feel and what they actually tell each other. It also relies on stereotypi­cal statements and mockery of psychia­try and dating. By far the funniest char­acter in this play is the Queen Leona Hamsley, played by Amanda Ann Goetz, who is the celebrant at the couple's wedding. 
After another shot of Wendy and Bette's day together a young ballerina and her father, portrayed by Caroline Walker and Louis MacKenzie, duke it out in a stereotypical father-daughter fight of the 90's and eventually make up in "Tender Offer. " 
Bette and Wendy sing a beloved Disney song before the audience views a couple from a time when women rid­ing bicycles was illegal. Byelinkov, por­trayed by Michael Kramer, is an uptight schoolteacher soon to be married to the flighty, flirty Varinka, played by Victoria Abram-Copenhaver. All the comedy in this skit derives from the obvious differ­ences between them and their ways of dealing with these differences. His rigid nature conflicts with her carefree demeanor in several instances includ­ing the riding of a bicycle and the say­ing of the words, "I love you." Byelinkov supplies the most hilarity here by seem­ing utterly bewildered at everything Varinka says or does. 

Next, a spunky, peppy work out girl, played by Amanda Ann Goetz, shows that there's more to her than what her students see during her class. Talking the whole time she's working out, sometimes to her students whom the audience never sees, her mood goes from light to serious in a few minutes and then she gets up and just keeps on going as if nothing is wrong. 
After a short intermission Bette and Wendy buy some makeup and Emily Rose Zandstra and Michael Girts recite Shakespeare's Sonnet 94 in the opening of "Waiting for Philip Glass." Here the wealthy main characters trade insults in a scene that seems like "The O.C." meets "Sex and the City." A lot of gossip and stress contribute to the absurdity in this scene where Holden, played by Susan Baxter, meets up with her ex­husband, portrayed by Richard Baxter, and his new wife, Rina, played by Ayslinn E. McGovern, at a party she is throwing for Philip Glass, who is late. Everything from Spencer, played by Carline Walker, who has something to say about everyone who comes in, to Holden's mini break down, fits in well with the wealthy, fake air the scene shows. 
By far, the funniest scene in the pro­duction, "Medea" is re-written, and hilarity ensues. Medea, played by Kelly Lynn Plush, introduces herself and com­plains of the lack of women's roles before the scene even starts. Between her intentional over-acting, and a cho­rus, played by Victoria Abram­Copenhaver, Shawna Broughton, and Lauren Mangiaforte, who love to throw pop-culture references into their lines, the play was hysterical over all. 
Overall, Wasserstein's one-acts are represented in a well-acted series of plays by a well-prepared group of actors. While the most obvious objective of the plays is humor, a serious side can also been seen in each of the charac­ters, both male and female. Many of them struggle with depression and anx­iety and, though psychiatry is mocked in several scenes, it also seems to be doing the characters some small amount of good. 
Their lives are all affected by whatev­er it is they feel, and even Wasserstein's character experiences uncertainty and feelings of inferiority. Each actor seemed to get his or her character and showed that through their portrayals, which makes "Celebrating Wendy" a worthwhile show, and a strong homage to the late playwright's works. 
Contact Mandy Stirone at astiroO1@saintmarys.edu 


KRISTY KINGffhe Observer KRISTY KINGffhe Observer 
The uptight socialite Byelinkov (Michael Kramer) discusses his future marriage Amanda Ann Goetz plays a spunky workout girl intent on proving there's more to to the flirty and carefree Varinka (Victoria Abram-Copenhaver). her than meets the eye, addressing the audience as she does her routine. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, November 9, 2006 
NBA 

Pierce, Szczerbiak score 35 in Celtics victory over Bobcats 
points Wednesday night to lead to lead a big third-quarter spurt Washington to a victory over as the Houston Rockets beat the Indiana, which played without Milwaukee Bucks on Wednesday. injured All-Star Jermaine O'Neal. Yao added 23 for the Rockets 
"Coach said, 'We keep playing before he and McGrady went like this, it's going to go down to cold down the stretch as the the wire. They're going to come Bucks tried to make a comeback. back, and we're going to tank at Michael Redd scored 34 for home. So you have to come out Milwaukee, topping the 30-point and you have to shut that lane mark for the third time in five down and stop them from getting games. Redd and guard Charlie easy buckets,"' Arenas recount­Bell helped the Bucks make a. ed. fourth-quarter comeback 
With Arenas, Antawn Jamison attempt that ultimately fell short. and Caron Butler, the Wizards Yao and McGrady combined to don't need to worry about scor­score all 17 points in Houston's ing. But Jordan's been talking for 17-7 run at the beginning of the some time about the need to third quarter. improve at the defensive end. Ya.o hit three field goals before After allowing Indiana to make the Bucks scored a point in the 50 percent of its shots in the first second half, then McGrady half, Washington held the Pacers answered a hook shot by the to 27 percent the rest of the way. Bucks' Charlie Villanueva with a 
An early 12-0 spurt in the third 3-pointer. quarter put Washington ahead Later in the quarter, McGrady 76-50. spun around and hit a jump shot 
"When you have a team on the to put the Rockets ahead 69-50 ropes," Jamison said, "you have with 4:01 remaining. On the to find a way to put them down." Rockets' next possession, The Wizards' transition offense McGrady came back and hit was in gear all night thanks to another jumper. The RocketsMcGrady nets 32 as Pierce had a career-high 12 bench as Jazz coach Jerry Sloan turnovers. Washington entered built a 76-58 lead to begin the 
turnovers. used Matt Harpring and Paul the game leading the NBA in fourth quarter. 
Rockets down Bucks Szczerbiak scored 20 points in Millsap up front along with forcing turnovers and Indiana With Milwaukee trailing 80-65 the third quarter on 6-of-7 shoot­Andrei Kirilenko and Mehmet gave up the ball 25 times, lead­early in the fourth quarter, Bucks ing, including four 3-pointers, as Okur. ing to 35 points. fans turned their attention to a
Associated Press 

the Celtics outscored Charlotte Derek Fisher also scored 15 hometown star -chanting to 
BOSTON -Delonte West made 37-25 to take an 82-74lead after and Williams had 10 of his 14 Rockets 97, Bucks 93 Rockets coach Jeff Van Gundy to a jumper at the overtime buzzer, three. points in the final quarter to help Tracy McGrady scored 32 put rookie Steve Novak, a former Paul Pierce and Wally Szczerbiak Othella Harrington's fallaway the Jazz nearly fight back from a points and teamed with Yao Ming Marquette player, in the game. each scored 35 points, and the jumper capped a 13-5 run and 10-point deficit. Boston Celtics earned their first tied the game for Charlotte at 87 However, they never got closer victory of the season by beating with 5:16 remaining. than a point as Carter, who the Charlotte Bobcats 110-108 Boston trailed 24-17 after the strained a quad in the third Wednesday night. first quarter while shooting 7 -of-quarter and was listed as ques­
Ryan Gomes added his first 23 from the field with eight tionable for the fourth, scored 13 career triple-double as the turnovers. of the Nets' final 20 points to pre­Celtics kept the Bobcats winless The last four games between vent the Jazz from the third 5-0 in Boston. the Celtics and Bobcats have start in their 32-year history. 
Pierce drove the lane with time been decided by three points or Okur had nine of his 13 points winding down and kicked the less. in the final quarter. Kirilenko fin­ball to a wide-open West, who West was 2-of-9 from the field ished with six points on 2-of-1 0 knocked down a 20-footer. before hitting the game-winner. shooting. 
Brevin Knight, who finished New Jersey, which led by as with 22 points, missed a jumper Nets 96, Jazz 89 many as 14 points in the second with 7.6 seconds left in overtime Vince Carter scored 30 points half, had a 76-66 lead after for the Bobcats, who are 0-5 in and almost single-handedly held Jefferson slammed home a dunk Boston. off Utah's fourth-quarter run, early in the fourth quarter. 
Gerald Wallace tied the game leading the New Jersey Nets to a Okur got the Jazz back in the at 100 with 10.5 seconds left in victory on Wednesday night that game with five straight points regulation after Sean May's shot knocked the Jazz from the and Utah kept inching closer the was blocked by Theo Ratliff and unbeaten ranks. rest of the way. on his second rebound, Wallace Utah's first loss in five games 

.:.· laid it in . left the New Orleans Hornets (4-Wizards ll7, Pacers 91. Pierce's 18-foot jumper as reg­0) as the NBA's only remaining Gilbert Arenas was scoring ulation time expired clanked off undefeated team a little more pretty much at will, helping the the side of the rim. than a week into the season. Washington Wizards take a 15­Emeka Okafor continued his Richard Jefferson added 23 point halftime lead against the strong comeback after playing in points, Jason Kidd had 15 and Indiana Pacers. only 26 games last season with Antoine Wright scored a career­So, naturally, coach Eddie 28 points and a career-high 18 high 15, including a clutch 3-Jordan lit into the Wizards in the rebounds. pointer with 3:41 left in the final locker room, telling his players Gomes had 10 points, 12 quarter after Utah had drawn he didn't like what he was see­rebounds and a career-high 10 within 85-84. ing. assists for the Celtics. Carlos Boozer, the Western They responded by picking up Boston overcame 25 turnovers Conference player of the week, the intensity on defense while to avoid starting the season 0-4 had 15 points for the Jazz, but he never losing a beat on offense, for the first time since 1969-70. spent the fourth quarter on the and Arenas finished with 40 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR SALE FoR RENT 

2-6 BDRM HOMES 07-08 OR FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Countdown until SCRUBS returns NOW. 574-329-0308 ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232-not go it alone. If you or someone to the air: 21 days. 2378. you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue STEVE CAR ELL is the best freekin' 
TICKETS Travel with STS to this years top 10 Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more actor around today. Nobody else is 3 bedroom ranch. BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam-Spring Break destinations! Best information, see our bi-weekly ad in better. The way he plays a com­1-1/2 bath. pus homes & weekend rentals. deals guaranteed! Highest rep com-The Observer. plete idiot and mean person but still Totally remodeled. Bluegoldrentals.com WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. missiol)s. makes the audience feel bad for New kitchen and heating/air. 251-1570 Visit www.ststravel.com or call1-Spring Break 2007 Celebration. him is wonderful. Nobody else can $99,900. HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6 800-648-4849. Great group dis-20th Anniversary w/Sun Splash do it like he can. The man is a 1820 Oak Park near Bedrooms FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. counts. Tours. Free trip on every 12 before genius. Edison/Ironwood. www.NDstudentrentals.com 232-0964 Nov.1. How does Tony Shahloub win an
-
Call Tony Free Meals & Parties, Hottest Deals Emmy over him? 574-303-0311. Rooms for rent WANTED: PERSONAL Ever. Group Discounts on 6 or 
for football weekends. FOOTBALL TICKETS. TOP DOL-more. Hey Thompson, that's right, I 3 Persian carpets Close to campus. LAR PAID. Hottest Spring Break Destinations. spelled it with a "p". Thanks a lot for priced to sell. Call NOBODY WILL PAY MORE. RAIN MAN. lost your number. 1800-426-7710. inviting us to see Borat the other 574-291-8514. 57 4-243-0658. 57 4-288-2726. Please call JW 203-517-5431. www.sunsplashtours.com night, loser. 
Thursday, November 9, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Sharapova vvins in straight sets 
Kuznetsova and Hingis also advance in the WTA Championships 

Associated Press In the Yellow Group, Hingis 
and Petrova are 1-1. Henin­

MADRID -Maria Sharapova Hardenne is 1-0, while beat two-time champion Kim Mauresmo is 0-1. Clijsters 6-4, 6-4 at the WTA Sharapova, the U.S. Open Championships on Wednesday, champion, kept Clijsters deep moving a step closer to a spot in behind the baseline and on the the semifinals. run throughout, hitting cross­
In other matches, Svetlana court winners from both sides. Kuznetsova defeated fellow "I think the quality of my ten­
Russian  Elena  nis  today  was  
Dementieva 7-5,  quite  high,"  
6-3, and two-time winner Martina  "I think the quality  Sharapova after her  said 1Oth  
Hingis pulled out a 6-4, 3-6, 6-3 victory over Nadia  ofmy tennis today was quite high.''  straight win. "I know that I've played a lot of  
Petrova.  matches and I feel  
Hingis' victory  Maria Sharapova  good  about  my  
means top-ranked  tennis player  game."  

Amelie Mauresmo will not finish the year as the No. 1 player in the world. That dis­tinction will go to Sharapova or Justine Henin-Hardenne, depending on how they fare in this tournament. 
Sharapova is 2-0 in the round-robin portion, Kuznetsova is 1-0 and Clijsters is 0-1. Also in the Red Group, the seventh-ranked Dementieva is 0-2, including Tuesday's loss to Sharapova, and has little chance of reaching the semifi­nals for the first time. since 2000. 
Kuznetsova can guarantee herself and Sharapova a place in the semifinals by beating Clijsters on Thursday. 
After the 19­
year-old Russian 
saved three break points in the fourth game of the second set, she took away the momentum from Clijsters and broke the frustrated Belgian in the next game. 
Sharapova broke Clijsters again in the seventh game, but failed to hold for the first time in the match as Clijsters closed to 5-4. 
Sharapo"¢a saved a double­break point in the 1Oth before her fifth ace clinched the win. 
"I felt like I was moving really well and no matter how big and deep her shots were I still felt like I was in position for them. And that just comes from play­ing a lot of matches," Sharapova said. 
Kuznetsova capitalized on Dementieva's erratic serve. Dementieva broke when trailing 5-3 before holding serve for the first time in four games. But Kuznetsova held and broke Dementieva for the third time to take the first set. 
"I had a lot of chances that I didn't close out in the first set," Kuznetsova said. "I was losing my concentration, but that's normal after a long season." 
Kuznetsova took control of the second set, breaking Dementieva with a forehand winner for a 2-0 lead. She held serve -saving four break points -and the match went to serve until a netted backhand by Dementieva sealed it. 
''I'm looking forward to rais­ing my game tomorrow, but today it was enough," Kuznetsova said. 
Hingis stormed to a 4-1 lead in the first set against the fifth­ranked Petrova, who beat Mauresmo on Tuesday. Petrova broke Hingis twice en route to winning the second set. 
But 41 unforced errors cost the Russian. In the deciding set, Hingis broke in the sixth game and sealed the win with a fore­hand pass on her second match point. 
"I wanted to come out here and at least win one after yes­terday's loss, so I'm very happy," Hingis said. 

Saint Mary's College Theatre presents 
ceebrotlng
WendI IAn Evening of · 
. "--1 Wasserstein One-Acts 

Nov. 9. 10. 11 at 7:30P.M. and Nov. 12 at 2:30P.M. Little Theatre. Saint Mary's College 
For tickets. call the Saint Mary's College box office at (574) 284-4626. MoreauCenter.com 

TIENTION GoLD RusH MEMB 
You CAN PICK UP You FREE GoLD RusH T,SHIRT AT THE FOLLOWING EVENTS THIS 
SATURDAY NoVEMBER 11 VoLLEYBALL vs. PnTSBURGH @2:00PM· #9 HocKEY vs. BowLING GREEN @7:30PM 
SuNDAY NoVEMBER 12 VoLLEYBALL vs. WEsT VIRGINIA@ 2:00PM 

ATTENDING YOUR TENTH 
GAME, YOU CAN RECEIVE AFREE PAIR OF ND CROCS! 


OUND THE NATION 
page 16 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Thursday, November 9, 2006 

NBA 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic 
team  record  PF  PA  
Philadelphia  3•1  96.5  93.3  
New Jersey  14  93.5  91.5  
Toronto  1·2  98;3  99.0  
New York  1"3  99.5  108.3  
Boston  0·3  97.3  105.3  

Eastern Conference, Central team record PF PA Indiana 3·1 100.8 95.0 Milwaukee 
2-2 96.5 101.8 Chicago 2·2 100.0 87.3 Detroit 2·2 98.5 95.5 Cleveland 2·2 92.0 92.8 
Eastern Conference, Southeast 
team record PF PA Atlanta 3~1 .94.0 89.3 Miami 2~2 86.3 96.8 Orlando 2·2 100.0 99.3 Washington 1·2 107.0 106.7 Charlotte 1·2 91.3 96.7 
Western Conference, Northwest 
team record PF PA Utah 4-0 106.0 96.0 Portland 2·2 94.0 99.0 Minnesota 2-3 91.8 93.6 Seattle 1-3 105.5 104.8 Denver 0-2 102.0 104.0 
Western Conference, Pacific 
team record PF PA LA Lakers 4·1 107.6 104.2 LA Clippers 3·1 104.0 101.0 Sacramento 2-2 89.0 91.3 Golden State 2·3 96.4 101.2 Phoenix 1·3 107.5 110.0 
Western Conference, Southwest 
team record PF PA New Orleans 4-0 96.0 90.3 San Antonio 3-1 96.5 91.5 Houston 2-2 95.0 89.8 Memphis 1-3 95.0 95.5 Dallas 0-3 94.8 103.7 
NCAA Women's Soccer 
team record prev. 
1 Notre Dame 20·0·1 1 
1 North Carolina 21·1·0 1 
3 UCLA 11·3·0 3 
4 Santa Clara 15·4·1 4 
5 Florida State 14·3·4 6 
6 Texas 17-3·2 9 
7 Portland 14·3·2 5 
8 Penn Slate 15·4·3 12 
9 Oklahoma Stale 16-3-2 7 
10 Wake Forest 15·5-1 18 
11 utah 15·4-1 10 
12 Rutgers 15·3-3 20 
13 TexasA&M 14-5·2 11 
14 West Virginia 14·3·3 8 
15 Illinois 14-7-0 17 
16 Florida 13·5·4 16 
17 Colorado 12·5·4 23 
18 Dartmouth 12-4-1 21 
19 Pepperdine 11·6·3 24 
20 William &Mary 11-7-2 14 
around the dial 
NBA Chicago at Cleveland 8 p.m., TNT 
Dallas at Phoenix 
10:30 p.m., TNT 
NCAA FOOTBALL Louisville at Rutgers 7:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press SAN DIEGO -The San Diego Padres found their new manager just up the freeway. Bud Black was hired Wednesday to replace Bruce Bochy, giving the Los Angeles Angels' pitch­ing coach his first major league managing job ­and drastically reducing his commute. Black lives in exclusive Rancho Santa Fe just north of San Diego. "Good dude," Tony Gwynn said about his for­mer teammate at San Diego State. "He's been in the game a long time and really warrants this oppor­tunity. I think he'll do 
well." 

Black will be introduced at the Padres' awards ban­quet Thursday night, said a baseball official, speak­ing on condition of anonymity because an announcement hadn't been made. 
Black was not available for comment and Padres executives didn't return calls. 
The 49-year-old Black has been the Angels' pitching coaeh for the last seven seasons, including when they won the World Series in 2002. lie pitehed in the big leagues for 15 seasons, helping the Kansas City Hoyals win the 
IN BRIEF 
North Texas parts ways with head football coach 
DENTON -North Texas coach Darrell Dickey was fired Wednesday with the Mean Green already assured their second straight losing season since winning four Sun Belt Conference titles in a row. 
Athletic dirnctor Hick Villarreal said Diekey, who has three years left on his contract, will not return in 2007. Dickey is expected to coach the final three games of the season for North Texas (2-7). 
Dickey became coach in 1998, three years after North Texas movod up to NCM Division 1-A. lie is 41-62 in his ninth season, with a 33-20 conference record. 
"I have made an informed dedsion to seek new leadership for our (()()tball program," Villarreal said. "It's time for North Texas to seek a now head coach to lead our football program to a posi­tion of prominence in the Sun Belt Conference and to a more competitive position at the national level." 
1985 World Series. 
"I think that Buddy's baseball knowledge and ability to communicate have made him so coveted the past couple of years," Angels manager Mike Seioscia said. "He not only has a great understanding of the pitching side, but a grasp of the fundamental side of baseball that every team needs to be success­ful. As an organization, you're always prepared to lose people, as we lost Joe Maddon last year to a managerial job (with Tampa Bay). 
"Buddy has made some big footprints in this organization, and if he 

gets the (San Diego) job, 
they would certainly be big 
shoes to fill." 

Black was one of six 
candidates to interview 
with general manager 
Kevin Towers. Black got a 
second interview on 
Tuesday, with owner John 
Moores and CEO Sandy 
Alderson. 

Dusty Baker, one of the 
leading candidates, said 
he was told Wednesday 
morning that he didn't get 
the job. 

"Life's full of disappoint­
ments some time and you have to deal with them," . said Baker, who formerly managed the Chicago Cubs and San Francisco Giants. 
Brown comes to settlement with Knicks over release 
NEW YOHK-The New York Knicks will pay former coach Larry Brown $18.5 million to settle a dispute over his firing in June, the NBA team's owner, Cab!Hvision Systoms Corp .. said Wednesday. 
The settlement was reaehed Oct. 30, but the Knicks were forbidden to release the amount that the team agreed to pay Brown. Cablevision, whieh owns the Knieks through its Madison Square Garden unit, dis­closed the amount in its third-quarter report filed with the Securities and Exchanw~ Commission. 
Hepresentatives for Brown and the Knieks testified before NBA commis­sioner David Stern for more than 15 hours over two days. A clause in Brown's contract made Stern the final arbiter in case of a dispute, but he got the sides to settle in a decision announced Oct. 30. 
Stern prevented either side from discussing terms of the settlement. 
United's Adu practices with Manchester United 
WASHINGTON -Freddy Adu will get his long-awaited first taste of European club soccer when he prac­tices with Manchester United for two weeks later this month. 
D.C. 
United and MLS have given the teen star permission to join the famous English team starting Nov. 18, three days after he is expe<:ted to play in a U.S. Under-20 national team game against Guatemala in Florida. 

D.C. 
United spokesman Doug Hicks said the practices with Manchester UnitPd will not be a tryout and that Adu's rights remain with MLS. 


"This is a great opportunity for Freddy," Hicks said Wednesday. "We support his decision to seek additional training opportunities in the offsea­son." 
Adu, who became the youngest play­er in MLS history three years ago when he was drafted at age 14, has often stated his desire to play for a European club. 
Thursday, November 9, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NHL 
LeCavalier lifts Lightning to overtime win at Penguins 
Nils Ekman registers hat trick in close loss 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -Vincent LeCavalier's goal 2:41 into overtime gave the Tampa Bay Lightning a 4-3 win over the Pittsburgh Penguins on Wednesday night. 
Nils Ekman had a natural hat trick, scoring three straight goals late in the second period for Pittsburgh. The Penguins have gained at least a point in seven of their last eight games. 
LeCavalier had a breakaway on Marc-Andre Fleury after Martin St. Louis found him with a long pass from the Tampa Bay end to near the Pittsburgh blue line. It was the second assist of the game for St. Louis, who has a 10-game point streak. 
Sidney Crosby and Sergei Gonchar each had two assists for the Penguins, who have lost 
five in a row at Mellon Arena to the Lightning. Ekman's goals came at 15:37, 
18:19 and 19:47 of the second period against Tampa Bay goalie Johan Holmqvist. 
The four minutes, 10 seconds between goals represented the shortest period of time for one player to score three goals in Penguins' history. The previous record was held by Lowell MacDonald, who had three in 
4:17 of a 5-2 win against Minnesota on Nov. 13, 1973. 
Dimitry Afanasenkov scored the game's first goal with 6:02 to play in the opening period when he deflected in a shot from the point by Nikita Alexeev from the right circle. 
Brad Richards made it 2-0 Tampa Bay with a power-play goal, his fourth, midway through the second period. While standing in the right­wing corner, Richards attempt­ed a centering pass to Alexeev that was blocked by the Penguins but bounced right back to Richards near the goal mouth. He slammed it past goalie Marc-Andre Fleury. 
Five and a half minutes later, Ekman's first goal made it a 2-1 game when he scored from the slot on a pass from Crosby, who had received the puck in the low right-wing circle during a delayed penalty from Gonchar. 
Ekman's second came 2:42 later when he deflected in a Ryan Whitney shot from the point while standing to the right of Holmqvist while on the power play. 
Rangers 4, Panthers 3 
Michael Nylander scored the only goal in the shootout to lead the New York Rangers to a 
victory  over  Florida  on  
Wednesday night.  
Martin Straka added  two  
power-play  goals  for  the  

Rangers, who improved to 6-2 on the road this season. Blair Betts had the other New York goal. Henrik Lundqvist, return­ing in net for the Rangers after being replaced by Kevin Weekes the last three games, made 37 saves before the shootout. 


Ruslan Salei, Nathan Horton and Jay Bouwmeester scored for the Panthers, who trailed 2­0 midway through the second period. 
But the Panthers were stymied in the shootout by Lundqvist. He stopped Olli Jokinen, Horton and clinched the victory when he blocked Joe Nieuwendyk's backhand attempt on a deke. 
BOIES PLUS 
Between Burlington Coat Factory and Hobby lobby in the Wilshire Plaza 
Shipping-largest selection of shippers in the area 
WE OFFER fAST AND FRIENDLY LOCAL SERVICE
Packaging-largest selection of boxes in the area 
LIKE GRANDMA's CHINA... Gift, jewerly and custom-made WE WRAP IT LIKE OUR OWN shipping packages and boxes NEED TO MOVE? COME SEE US AND 
Rental boxes for local movers 
WE WILL SET YOU UP. 
Packaging Supplies 
WE SHIP ANYTHING, ANYWHHERE IN THE WORLD VIA UPS, FEDX, ETC.
Greeting Cards 
Fax & Copy Service WE CAN PACK ANYTHING 
*No Hazardous Materials Shipped.* 


5622 Grape Road Mishawaka, IN 46545 
574-277-5555 FAX 574-277-5594 



-""" page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, November 9, 2006 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Cardinals look to put dent in Knights' armor 
8-0 Louisville takes on 8-0 Rutgers tonight 
Associated Press 
PISCATAWAY -Students camping out. Temporary bleachers to accommodate the overflow crowd. Tickets that usually sell for $28, going for $200 on eBay. 
Rutgers football sure has come a long way in a short time. 
No long ago it was hard to give away tickets to a Scarlet Knights game. Now, seats for Thursday night's battle of unbeatens between the No. 15 Scarlet Knights and No. 3 Louisville are so scarce that even Gov. Jon S. Corzine appealed to athletic director Robert Mulcahy for an extra pair. 
"He said, 'I'm sending a check,'" Mulcahy said. 
The game is being billed as the biggest ever played by the school that was part of the first college football game in 1869. 
"I think it's a reaction that's in many ways almost an over­reaction," Mulcahy said. "They wanted this for so long, the minute they could taste some­thing, it was, 'Boom."' 
It is an understatement to say even the most ardent Rutgers followers probably could not have envisioned this level of hysteria when head coach Greg Schiano took over in 2001 and proceeded to lose 34 of 46 games, including 17 consecu­tive in Big East play. 
The former University of Miami defensive coordinator gradually built a winner out of a progr-am with only three above .500 seasons since 1984. In 2005, Rutgers went to a bowl for the first time since 1978 and this year crashed the Top 25 for the first time in 30 years. 
"When I would sit up here and start talking about how we're going to win this and we're going to build this, I'm sure people would think, 'What's this guy smoking today?'" Schiano said this week. "But the alternative is to sit there and say, 'Well, I don't know, we'll see.' So I think that kind of thinking is what carries you through the tough times, and it gives you a consistency that in the athletics world is hugely important." 

Thursday's game will be the second in consecutive weeks that pits two undefeated Big East teams, after Louisville's 44-34 defeat of then-No. 3 West Virginia last Thursday. The win vaulted Louisville (-0) to third­place in the Bowl Championship Series standings, but detractors still question the conference's strength. 
"What we feel is that we went out on the field and played great football," Louisville coach Bobby Petrino said. "We've played everybody we went up against and did a nice job. Our players here listen and are cer­tainly motivated. We probably need to get (ESPN analyst) Lee Corso to keep talking about us." 
Louisville (8-0) has already entered uncharted territory with its highest ranking and spot in the thick of the national title race. 
A win by Rutgers (8-0) would dash Louisville's title hopes and move the Scarlet Knights into the national championship dis­cussion. 
While Louisville's win over West Virginia is viewed as a defining moment in the pro­gram's history, Rutgers is com­ing into the game off ,one of its worst performances of the sea­son. The Scarlet Knights beat Connecticut 24-13 two Sundays ago with only one offensive touchdown. 
Rutgers is 4-1 against Louisville, but the last meeting was a humiliating for the Knights. 
The Cardinals won 56-5 in Louisville last year and held the Scarlet Knights to nine first downs. 
"You pretty much use it as a positive," Rutgers defensive tackle Ramel Meekins said. "It's in the past and it happened. You take it and you run with it. You take the good and the bad, and you turn the bad into good and make the good even bet­ter." 
Tht; Louisville offense, aver­aging 492 yards and 39 points per game, will be the toughest test of the season for a Rutgers' defense ranked No. 2 in the country and allowing nine points per game. 
Louisville quarterback Brian Brohm has recovered from a thumb injury this season to lead the Big East in passing and total offense. Schiano put him among the best he has coached against, a group that includes Michael Vick and Kerry Collins. 
Rutgers counters with a rush­ing attack led by sophomore running back Ray Hice, the nation's third-leading rusher with 1,203 yards who is recov­ered from an ankle sprain suf­fered against UConn. Despite losing featured back Michael Bush to a broken leg in the first game of the season, Louisville rushes for 203 yards per game, 10 more than Rutgers. 


I 
Flat Screen TVs

1hu.t~dalf~ 
in every booth IKaraoke 

9 pm-l am NFL Sunday Ticket setrueenlite 

#1
E.S'UDS 
Sports Bar
SPORTS BAR 

t?anzp~ _57ho-pp~~. _57o-u~h Ll~nd 
vvvvvv.BetvveentheBuns.com 
Law & .... 
Please join the Law School for its 2006-2007 series of interdisciplinary discussions. All programs begin at 4:00p.m. and will be held in Law School room 110. 
Thursday, September 28, 2006 
Human Rights and Human Atrocities in Uganda 
Presenter: Todd David Whitmore Department of Theology Respondent: Doug Cassel Center for Civil and Human Rights, The Law School 
Thursday, November 9, 2006 
The Biophysics ofLife and Public Policy Disputes: Interfacing with the Scientific Community on Bioethical Issues 
Presenter: Phillip Sloan Program of Liberal Studies Respondent: Carter Snead The Law School 
Thursday, February 8, 2007 
The Other Alien Debate: Biology and Policy ofInvasive Species 
Presenter: David Lodge Department of Biological Sciences Respondent: Alejandro Camacho The Law School 
Thursday, March 1, 2007 
Identifying Tax Effects on Charitable Giving 
Presenter: Daniel Hungerman Department of Economics and Econometrics Respondent: Lloyd Mayer The Law School 
Thursday, November 9, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NFL 

MeNair returns to for111er ho111e 

Tennessee to face off against Baltimore 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE -Music City has seen this story many times before. A big, popular star nears the end of his run and isn't welcome anymore. Then there's the big comeback, the triumphant return. 
Cue Steve McNair. 
The quarterback Titans fans still believe was done wrong by his team in a painful and ugly separation is coming back to the town. He returns happy, a winner with his new team ­the Baltimore Ravens -and in perfect position to take some revenge. 
"A lot of people say, 'Well, maybe you've lost a step. Maybe you don't have it all anymore,"' McNair said Wednesday in a conference call. 
"When a team is willing to bring you in and put you in as a starter, that lets you know they 
The Siemens Competition in Math, Science and Technology is the nation's premiere math and science research competition for high school students. The Siemens Foundation provides nearly $2 million in college scholarships and awards each year for talented high school students in the United States. By supporting outstanding students today, and recognizing the teachers and schools that inspire their excellence, the Foundation helps nurture tomorrow's scientists and engineers. 
www.siemens-foundation.org 
see something left in you. All I've got to do right now is man­age the game and put this team in position to win games week in, week out. I'm very flattered that they thought that of me." 
Instead of being stuck with the young and struggling Titans (2-6), McNair is with the 6-2 Ravens atop the AFC North. 
ing his successor, Vince Young. 
McNair said he knew that salary cap number made it impossible for him to stay with the franchise that drafted him No. 3 overall in 1995. 
How Titans management han­dled those final weeks is a dif­ferent matter. 
A trainer met 
him in April and 
"It takes a little "It takes a little told him not to getting used to, but work out on
getting used to, but
I obviously like him their property. on my sideline I obviously like him He filed a griev­rather than the on my sideline ance through the other one," Ravens NFL Players
rather than the
coach Brian Billick Association and said. "He's been a won. The Titans
other one." 
joy to be around let his agent talk and had a huge with the Ravens
Brian Billick 
impact on our during the NFL
Ravens coach
team." 
It's not that McNair wasn't wanted after 11 seasons with the Titans' organi­zation. But the Titans wouldn't pay the winningest quarterback in their history $9 million for 2006, with a $23.46 million salary cap hit. Not after draft-
draft about a 
trade, but they couldn't agree on a draft pick for compensation. 
That left McNair, a 2003 NFL co-MVP and the Titans' first since Earl Campbell, in limbo for months until the trade on June 8, and forced to play catch-up after the trade. 
The chance to play in another Super Bowl in Baltimore helped ease the disappointment, and McNair now says change can be good -sometimes. 
"When one door (closes), another one opens. I'm just glad to get this opportunity to fur­ther my career," McNair said. 
Billick doesn't see MeN air harboring any ill will. 
"He's had nothing but good things to say about the Titans, the organization and everyone there, both publicly and pri­vately," Billick said. 
The question is how will he be greeted Sunday? This game was the second-fastest sellout when single-game tickets went on sale in July. McNair isn't sure if he will hear boos, cheers or a mixture of both. 
Titans linebacker Keith Bulluck predicts cheering, con­sidering McNair was playing for Tennessee last season and the consensus among fans who are unhappy with how he was treated. 
"Definitely, everybody's look­ing forward to Steve coming back," he said. 
McNair earned his share of cheers in January 2000 for driving the Titans down the field before coming a yard short of possibly forcing the first overtime in Super Bowl history. He almost singlehandedly led them to 11 victories in 12 games and a second AFC cham­pionship appearance after a 1-4 start in 2002. 
And it was McNair, limping with a cracked bone spur, who barely came up short in the playoffs at New England in January 2004 after being voted co-MVP of the league. 
"Oh man, they're going to love him," Young said. "It's going .to be way different than when T.O. went back to Philadelphia." 
McNair said this will be another game. Cornerback Samari Rolle, who went through this reunion last year after being cut by the Titans and signing with Baltimore, doesn't agree. 
"I think he's going to treat it like one of the biggest games of his career because of how he was handled and how much he meant to the organization," Rolle said. "I think it will defi­nitely be emotional for him." 
And a much better exit than McNair got in June. 

SIEMENS 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 9, 2006 
Signing 
continued from page 24 
comment on the recruits until Wednesday because of NCAA regulations. 
"Four great fits for us," Brey said of his recruits. "All kids that understand they gotta compete in the classroom, they'll compete on the basket­ball court. They all bring us something a little bit different to our basketball program." 
Abromaitis is a 6-foot-7, 210-pound forward who Brey said already shows a strong ability scoring the basketball. He averaged 25.7 points, 10.9 rebounds and two assists as a junior at Farmington High School. He also added 58 blocks and was named first­team All State by the Hartford Courant and New Haven Register. rebounds, l'ive assists and 
Despite Abromaitis' strong three blocks per gamn as a numbers as a junior, Brey said senior in Long Island. Brey he is still a few years away said Nash should be able to from developing into a Big compBte right away for Notre 
East player.  Dame and that thB 6-l'oot-7  
"Abromaitis is  a  kid who I  forward offers the Irish  a  
think  could  longnr guard than  
develop in time,  ''Abromaitis is a  they've had  recent­ 
maybe it's a little longer for him, he's got a young  kid who I think could develop in  ly. "lip's a defender  strong and  
body," Brey said. "I just think he's gonna be a heck of a player  time, maybe it's a little longer for him, he's got a  rebounder and a solid all-around player at both ends of the noo~" Brey  
because he can score the ball."  young body. "  said. "I lis vorsatility will allow us to usn  
Nash is a 6­foot-7, 215­pound guard cur­ Mike Brey Irish coach  him at a couple of' different positions in the lineup."  
rently enrolled at  The 6-!'oot-4, 193­ 

Northfield Mount llermen in pound Prol'l'itt averaged 11Ui Northfield, Mass. lie graduat­points and 7.5 assists as a jun­ed from Lawrence WoodmerB ior at South Laurel lligh Academy and is playing his School, lnading his team to a fifth year in Massachusetts. 2H-6 overall rncord with a Nash avBraged 17 points, 14 regional and district title. Brey 


said it was Proffitt's leader­ship qualities that stood out the most. 
"lie comes from a winning high school program," Brey said. "What I like most about him is that he has been a play­er who has made big plays in big games. lie has a winner's mentality." 
Scott is a 6-foot-8, 205­pound forward who has been injured on and off for the last two seasons. lie averaged 12 points and eight rebounds during the 2003-04 season, and has spent the last two ynars playing with the T-MAC All Stars. 
"Nash and Scott give you two body types that we haven't had hero a lot of," Brey said. "I think that helps 
us." 
Notes: 
+ Broy addressed the cur­rnnt situation regarding team captains before practice Wndnesday. The Irish coach, who usually names his cap­tains bnl'oro thn l'irst game of tho season, is in no rush this year dun to the team's chom­istry. 
"Given how this group is kind of' devoloping before my vn ry eyes, I'v1) kind of' just held off to evaluate it. and rnally havnn 't oven put it to a vote ynt," Brny said. "I may not 1wnn put it to a vote beforn the first game." 
Brey said in tho past he has held a team vote and required that playnrs submit a short essay describing why they nominated a certain player for team captain. And while Brey has benn pleasnd with the leadership of senior guards Colin Falls and Hussell Carter, as well as junior forward Hob Kurz, he still wants to wait. 
"I think I almost want this group to kind of be together longer and then we'll vote," Brey said. "And we may vote aftnr the (preseason) NIT, and we may vote at Christmas. I'm just kind of reading it, just taking a little bit different tone with this group." 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgriffiJ@nd.edu 
Nwankwo 
continued from page 24 

them it was a good thing for 
h. " 
!In. 

Frank said Nwankwo's other top option was Florida, where the lineman's sister goes to school. 
"It would have been kind of an easier choice for him to go to Florida," Frank said. 
But Notre Dame's academic prestige, he said, helped nab the coveted Nwankwo. 
"He moves very well for a guard," Frank said. "And he blocks very well in run-lock­ing and pass blocking, which is something you don't often see. 
"lie's a very, very good ath­lete. A big man who can move very wnll." 
Nwankwo's 40-yard dash time is listed at 5.20 seconds, and Frank said he is a light­footed lineman. 
"It's important because Notre Dame had only one offensive line commitment," Frank said. "And I know they want at least four." 
The only other Irish offen­sive line commitment for next year is 6-foot-5, 2H5-pound tackle Andrew Nuss of Ashburn, Va. (Stone Bridge lligh School). 
Wide receiver Aurelius Benn of Washington, D.C. (Dunbar Iligh School) and linebacker Greg Little of Durham, N.C. (Hillside High School) are both expected to announce their decisions today. 
Frank said he expected Little to eommit to Notre Dame but Benn to go else­where. 
Other than Notre Dame, Benn is interested in Illinois, Maryland and Florida State, with Ron Zook's Illini consid­ered most likely to land the nation's top wide out recruit. 
"You'll see guys starting to trickle in now, I think," Frank said. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 


w~n.}i~ 1~ 1 @;7:00 Illil (!)llilMbtt~ ~<OIW!oltmnD~~ 
*FIRST 100 ND, HCC &SMC EAc 
ASKETBALL vs. IPFW FRI, Nov  
.  !MING vs. MICHIGAN STATE SAT,  TH@ 5PM  
SwiMMING vs. PITTSBURGH SuN, N  2TH@ 12PM  

Thursday, November 9, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 

Review 
continued from page 24 
but praise for her departing seniors. 
"Their talent, effort and leadership have made a huge impact on our volleyball pro­gram and really helped to bring our program up to the next level," she said. 
That level meant some awards for these seniors. 
Cusack was honored as the MIAA defensive player of the year, while also being named was named to the league's first team. As the Saint Mary's libero, Cusack posted 472 total digs -7.04 per game against 
league competition -and league honorable mentions for ranked first in the MIAA. her play this season. She aver­The senior also ranked 1Oth aged 1.36 kills per game and in the league in services with helped on defense with 0.63 
0.42 aces per game. Cusack digs per game. spent all season Another award 
among the top-50 winner was one of in the nation in "We have a Saint Mary's out­digs. Playko also fantastic group of standing fresh­finished with hon­men, outside hit­
experienced and 
ors. She was ter Lorna 
named to the All­talented players Slupczynski, who MIAA second team returning. " took home the for the second league's Freshman time in her career. of the Year bon-
She received first Julie Schroeder-Biek 
ors. 
team honors in Belles coach Slupczynski had 2003. This season, a strong rookie Playko ranked fourth in the season, averaging 3.00 kills league in kills with 3.85 kills and 3.72 digs a game in MIAA per game and eighth in digs at matches. She posted 10 dou­
4.82 per game. ble-figure kill efforts and 14 Carpenter received an all-double-figure dig efforts in 18 
THE POWER TO GET A 

PHONE THAT ROCKS 
league matches. 
Slupczynski also had eight double-doubles during the league season. Slupczynski and Cusack's honors marked the first time in Saint Mary's history that a Belle was recog­nized with an MIAA player of the year award. Setter Amanda David also received an honorable mention from MIAA coaches. 
Schroeder-Biek says she is ready for next season and expects great things. 
As for next year, the Belles will build on the successes that they experienced this year. 
"We have a fantastic group of experienced and talented players returning," Schroeder­Biek said. "These players will 
Award 
continued from page 24 
bring with them even higher goals due to the success we experienced this season." 
Sophomore middle blocker Kaela Hellmann, the Belles' leader in blocks with 0.8 per game, said she will miss this year'~ graduating veterans. 
"Next year, I'm looking for­ward [to] improving on the respect we have earned this season [with] our finish in the conference," she said. "The seniors this year were great leaders and communicators on the team. They have helped me personally grow up throughout my college experi­ence with volleyball and school." 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
•TM ,
FUSIC by LG® only from Sprint. 
Phone and MP3 
Bluetooth® technology
player in one. 
Built-in MP3 player 
with FM transmitter 
microSD external memory card 
Four accessory faceplates 
$99.99 
Plus get LG® portable speakers 
FREE 

reg. $58.65. While supplies last. 

Phone and free speaker offer requires activation ofanew line of service on a$39.99 or higher service plan with a two-year agreement on each phone. 
GET THIS CAMERA PHONE 
FREE, INSTANTLY! 
SCP-3100 by Sanyo11 Offer requires activation of a new line ofservice with a 2-year sub­


Sprinf > POWER UPW 
scriber agreement. Reg. $179.99. After $179.99 instant savings. 


REGISTER TO WIN $10,000* 
Visit your local Sprint Store to register for a chance to win the $10,000 Money Talks Grand Prize or one of 25 $1,000 First Prizes. 
Sweepstakes ends 12/10/06. No purchase necessary. See store for complete sweepstakes rules. *Registration available at Sprint Stores or Preferred Retailer locations only. 
T.ulll 
New, improved coverage in the South Bend area. Wireless service is only as good as the network it runs on. With new and improved coverage in South Bend, Niles, Granger and Laporte, now is a great time to experience the most complete, all-digital, wireless network in the nation reaching more than 250 million people. 
SPRINT STOA:f:S  
SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  STORE HOURS  
Martin's Plaza  Grape Rd. at Indian Ridge  Sunday ........ 12pm-Spm  
2035 South Bend Ave.  South of the Mall  Mon.-Fri........ 10am-8pm  
574-277-7727  across from McDonald's  Sat.. ..........• 9am-7pm  
574-243-2100  
Se habla Espaiiol  

PREHRRfO RETAilERS 
NILES

SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA 
Basic Communications

Sprint Store Express Sprint Store Express 
2010 S. 11th St.

5~991 SR993 Ste. B University Park Mall 
269-357-0000

574-243-8900 6501 Grape Rd. 
574-277-4360 

Before coming to Notre Dame in 2005, Kubinski, 36, spent a year-and-a-half as an assistant coach for the Duke men's and women's teams. There, he· worked under Duke Golf Club general manager Ed Ibarguen, also a top-1 00 teacher. 
Kubinski also attributes much of his success to the opportunity to work for two Hall of Fame coaches, Duke men's coach Rod Myers and women's coach Dan Brooks. Myers and Brooks have won a combined four NCAA national championships. 
"Each of those men were outstanding mentors and influ­enced my teaching tremen­dously," Kubinski said. "Working with each of them, I picked up things that I incorpo­rated into my own teaching style." 
In his first two full seasons at Notre Dame, Kubinski has led the Irish to consecutive Big East Conference titles and NCAA regional berths. He has also amassed three tourna­ment victories, 10 top-five fin­ishes and 12 wins over top-25 opponents _during his short tenure. Under Kubinski's guid­ance, Notre Dame set a school record last season with a 
292.97 stroke average. 
Senior co-captain Cole Isban calls Kubinski's approach to practicing one of the coach's best assets. 
"He has done a lot of great things for us on a mental scale," Isban said. "The ideas and drills used in practice have definitely improved since he got here." 
Isban also noted that Kubinski has worked hard to improve the swings of several of the freshmen on this year's team. 
The GOLF Magazine Top 100 selections will be announced later this month. Many of the instructors on the list are mainstays, which makes it dif­ficult for new teachers to crack the list. 
Kubinski is happy that the list sends a positive message to coaches around the country. 
"Regardless of how the final voting comes out, I think the fact that we're talking about teaching is exciting," Kubinski said. "Too many times, coaches focus on wins and losses and scheduling and recruiting and so many other things. It's nice to have this time to reflect on what our real mission is. We're 
here  to  help  our  players  
improve  on  and  off  the  
course."  


""Rates exclude taxes S. Sprint Fees (including USF charge of up to 2.26% that varies quarterly, cost recovery fees up to $2.83 per line, S. state/local fees that vary by area). Sprint Fees are not taxes or gov't-req'd charges. 
Coverage not available everywhere. Available features & services will vary by phone/network. Nationwide Sprint PCS Network reaches over 250 million people. Offers not available in all mar­kets or retail locations. Add' I terms & restrictions apply. Subject to credit. See store or Sprint.com details. Up to $36 activation & $200 early termination fees apply per line. Depos_it may be required. Instant Savings: Offer ends 12/31/06 or while supplies last. No cash back. Taxes excluded. Activation at time of purchase required. Mail-in Rebate: Requires purchase & activation by 12/31/06. Rebates cannot exceed purchase price. Taxes excluded. Line must be active 30 consecutive days. Allow 8 to 12 weeks for rebate. ©2006 Sprint Nextel. All rights reserved. Sprint, the "Going Forward" logo. the NEXTEL name & logo, & other trademarks are trademarks of Sprint Nextel. SWEEPSTAKES: NO PURCHASE NECESSARY TO ENTER OR WIN. PURCHASE DOES NOT IMPROVE YOUR CHANCES OF WINNING. The Sprint "Money Talks" Sweepstakes begins 12:00:01 a.m CST on 10/23/06 and ends 11:59:59 p.m. CST on 12/10/06. Open only to legal U.S. residents of lA, IL, Ml, IN, OH, PA, TN and WV, 18 years of age or older. Void where prohibited by law. To enter: Visit a participating Sprint retail store, complete the official entry form and drop in the entry box at the store or enter online at www.moneytalks/registertowin.corn. Limit one entry per per­son. Subject to full official rules available online at www.moneytalks/rules.com. Odds of winning are dependent upon number of eligible entries received. Prizes: One (1) Grand Prize: $10,000 Cash. Value: $10,000. Seven (7) First Prizes: $1,000 Cash. Value: $1,000 each. All prizes will be awarded in the form of a check. Total Value of all prizes: $17,000. SPONSOR: iPCS Wireless, Inc., 1901 N. Roselle Rd .. Schaumburg, IL 60195. OPT-OUT: Ifyou do not want to be contacted regarding iPCS Wireless Inc.'s, Products or services in the future, write to: Jill Moravec, The Ad Group 230 E. 2nd Street, Davenport, lA 52801. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

A Street & Smith's honorable score in a lot of ways. She !its tribute in the post next season. she brings the attitude that mention All-American in each really well into the offense Bruszewski has averaged 18.3 Crystal has and the intimidat­
CoiDIDit 

of the past three sHasons, she we're running right now. points, 9.7 rebounds and 2.3 ing presence that we need. 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 9, 2006 

continued from page 24 Scout. com. The three rookies that will  has averaged 11.3 points per game in her three-plus seasons with the Friars, including  "/ think the biggest thing we thought we needed was a  "I think her versa­tility and her athlet­ic ability are exactly what we needed." or the three,  blocks per game in her career at Wheeler High. She is the first player in school history to average a double-double for an entire season, a feat that she  [She isl the kind of player who is going to go toe-to-toe and not back down from anyone." McGraw said Bruszewski showed her tenacity on the vol­ 
join the Notre Dame squad next season are Devereaux Peters, a 6-2 forward from Fenwick High School in Chicago, Becca Bruszewski, a 6-1 forward from Wheeler High School in Valparaiso, Ind., and Brittany Mallory, a 5-10 guard from the McDonogh School in Baltimore, Md. "We are thrilled with this class," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said at her press con­ 12.9 points a game last season. Last year, Peters also averaged a team-best 7. 7 rebounds a game and recorded a .605 field goal percentage while helping Lead Fenwick to a 32-2 record and a top­20 national rank­ really big, athletic post who could rebound, defend and score, and I think we got that in Devereaux Peters." Muffet McGraw Irish coach  McGraw said Peters had the best chance of contributing the most in her fresh­man season. "With Crystal [Erwin! graduating and the spot open­ing up inside, I think the way she plays, being able to play inside a lot more [will help  has accomplished in eaeh of leyball court, where she has thn past two seasons. also shone. Last season, she averaged "I think she broke some­22.5 points and body's nose in volley­10.1 rebounds, ball last year with a"When you look atand she recorded spike, and it didn't three triple-dou­our freshman class really bother her bles . now and add these much," McGraw Bruszewski was said.three to it, I think a consensus top­Bruszewski's com­100 player, and there's great things mitment was influ­she was ranked in the future. " enced at least in part No. 44 in the by current Notre  
ference Wednesday. "I think we're really securing our future. We're doing a really  ing. "I think the biggest thing we thought we needed was a real­ herl," she said. "But I think they're all going to play. It's just a question of how  nation by Dan Olson Collegiate Girls Basketball  Muffet McGraw Irish coach  Dame freshman Melissa Lechlitner, who played with  
good job  on  the  recruiting  Ly big, athletic post who could  quickly they  can  accLimate  Heport.  Bruszewski on  the  
front."  rebound, defend and score,  themselves  to  the  college  "The thing that  Indiana Elite AAU  
Peters, a consensus top-35  and I think we got that in  game."  Becca [Bruszewskil gives us is  team.  
recruit, is the most highly tout­ Devereaux Peters," McGraw  Bruszewski, McGraw said,  she is one tough kid," McGraw  "When I saw Becca play with  
ed commit of this year's class.  said. "She's going to be able to  will also likely be able to con- said. "She is competitive, land]  Lech[litner], I immediately  

Castle Point Apartments 
574-272-8110 18011 Cleveland Road 574-272-8114 FAX South Bend, Indiana www.cppj.com 
Specials! 

Indoor/Outdoor Ten 
#" r -r •
,;rree , ann1ng v 
() Heated Pool Relaxing Jacuzzi Gated Community Community Business Center 

asked her what she thought of her, and she was very high on her," McGraw said. 
Mallory will round out the Irish recruit class this season. In her career at McDonogh, she has averaged 19.6 points and 
7.0 rebounds per game. Ranked 96th by Blue Star Basketball, Mallory has been named to the Interscholastic Athletic Association of Maryland (IAAM) All-Star team in both basketball and lacrosse in each of the past two seasons. 
"Brittany Mallory [is] a very complete offensive player," McGraw said. "She's someone who can score, she can pass, she can handle the ball, [and] she is a great shooter. She real­ly is going to be tremendous in our offense." 
I-n combining this year's recruits with the current fresh­man class that was ranked 21st last season, McGraw is confi­dent with Notre Dame's prospects for the next several seasons. 
"When you look at our fresh­man class now and add these three to it, I think there's great things in the future," she said. 
Contact Eric Retter at 
eretter@nd.edu 

11TH VS. PITTSBURGH @ 2PM 12TH vs. WEST VIRGINIA @ 2PM 
InnatSaintl\11ary's 
I 

FRI, NOVEMBER 10TH vs. @ 7:30PM SAT' NOVEMBER 11TH vs. @ 7:00PM 
PICK UP YOUR HOCKEY STUDENT SECTION A T..sHIRT oN FRIDAY! allegiant
pr 

.--------------------~ 
Thursday, November 9, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY 
JOCULAR 
page 23 
JUMBLE 
Jr~ffi1bl! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
GAADE 
j
(J ( 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
f1~f't J 
JADEGG 
I I I 
www.jumble.com
t
COLUSH t 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHAT THE: OOC.TOI< C.ONSIDE:I<e:D THE: MIND I<E:ADE:I< WHO FE:L-L-ON THE: IC.E:. 

---~, 
4 
' ~ 
•j 
'4 
•
•j 
4 
; 
' 4 
ALEC WHITE 

CROISSANTWORLD 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J I I J I 
suggested by the above car­
lillswer here: 
A"( I I I Jl I I I J 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's Jumbles: TWILL MINCE KOWTOW GEYSER 
Answer: How the pretzel maker increased business ­WITH A NEW "TWIST' 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Jack Osbourne, 21; Tara Reid, 31; Parker Posey, 38; Bonnie Raitt, 57 
Happy Birthday: You may have to spend the better part of the upcoming year deciphering how you can best benefit from the changing playing field you are caught up in. Don't 
believe everything you hear and don't be afraid to make changes. Your numbers are I, 15, 24, 25, 33, 38 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Someone is likely to try to put one past you if you aren't careful today. Don't give in to someone because they are persuasive or using emotional blackmail. The more adamant you are about doing things your way, the better. 2 stars 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Doors will open if you ask for favors. Remembering a past partner will bring something to mind you can use to get what you want now. An emotional reminder will lead to a decision that will alter your personal life. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone may be a burden or need your help as the day progresses. Someone you live with may try to limit you from doing the things you enjoy. Unusual circumstances will lead to a series of small but important changes. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You are in a high cycle regarding love, so put time aside to spend with someone special or get out and meet new people. Social events, travel and joining interest groups will all be conducive to love. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be careful how you handle the ones you love or live with. A surprise attack by someone you thought you could trust will put things in perspective quickly. Uncertainty will result from too little research. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Do whatever it takes to talk your way in and out of things. A colleague, peer or even a friend will let you down. A problem at home will lead to change. 2 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Conduct business by email or phone rather than in person. A change in career will help you utilize your talents further. An emotional connection can be made with someone older or younger. 5 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Everyone will be demanding and unreasonable today. Keep your wits about you. A lie is likely to be told to get you to do something you shouldn't. Be prepared to ask questions and say no. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Someone is not telling you something you need to know to move forward. A problem with an authority figure, while traveling or dealing with someone who is using his or her experience to manipulate you must be brought to a halt. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A walk down memory lane should help you come up with an excellent solution to a decision you must make. Someone in a position of authority will give you a hard time if you aren't fully prepared to deal with him or her. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Socialize but don't take what others say to you as law. Exaggeration can be expected and emotional measures used to lead you in a direction you probably shouldn't go. A different lifestyle may be good for someone else but, for now, stick to what you know. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Someone you depend on or are close to will not agree with what you want to do today. Financial matters must be addressed. Talk lo whoever is opposing you. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You have a drive that is hard to match. You set your sights on what you want and focus until you have mastered your goal. You are competitive, reliable, intelligent and hard to beat. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Newspaper foreign news desk 5 Some term life insurance offers 9 Monroe's co-star in ''The Seven Year Itch" 14 Like some 
punished G.l.'s 

15 "Dies 
16 Place for high fliers 17 1922 Physics Nobelist 19 Winner of a record 82 P.G.A. Tour events 20 Part of an 
officer's uniform 21 "Aha!" 23 Real mess 25 Some breakfast 
orders, quickly 28 Pianist called a "clown prince" 
32 Play 
34 Juliet's vengeful cousin 
35 Psychiatrist's response 
36 Geom. solid 
38 L' de catastrophe nature lie 
39 "The Pilgrim's Progress" author 
42 Milton subject 
45 "Babette's Feast" writer 
47 W.W. II spy org. 
48 Hymn with the lyric "Bring me my chariot of fire!" 
50 Screenplay element 
52 Candle site 
56 Successor to Pope John X 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

57 Popular pet ... or an apt description for 17-, 28-or 45-Across 
59 Opposite of take out 60 Greek vowels 61 Hunter aka EdMcBain 62 Poet who wrote 
48-Across 63 Cast or gram beginning 
64 Reply to "Shall we?" 
DOWN 1 Tops 2 Sassy one 3 Swedish-based 
chain 4 " ... and pulled out " 5 Symbol of inhospitable 
remoteness 6 Cloaks 7 Backrub 
response aWool source 9 Slips past 
10 Retired 11 "I'll speak a prophecy_ go": Shak. 12 Bloody Mary's daughter in "South Pacific" 13 Took by the 
hand 18 Toil 22 Actor Frobe of 
"Goldfinger'' 24 Part of Russia, with "the" 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Richard Chisholm 
25 Small African antelope 
26 "The Da Vinci Code" figure 
27 Operatic vocal solo 
29 Batting average, e.g. 
30 Tiffany art medium 
31 Rock finale? 33 Northern capital 37 Breaks bread 40 Sweet girl of 
song 41 Robert De 43 Paper to sign 44 Concerning 46 Forty-niner's find 49 Architect's start 

50 Start of a game 
51 Jot 
53 Four stars, perhaps 
54 Sci. class 
55 Nesters 
56 lsr. neighbor 

58 _ 1, along the 
Atl. coast 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address City ________ State ____ ZiP---~-­
THE OBSERVER 


PORTS
Thursday, November 9, 2006 page 24 
N D BASKETBALL 

Signing bonus 
Men's squad brings Three top-tier recruits in four young players ink letters of intent 
By BOB GRIFFIN By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer Associate Sports Ediror 
Notre Dame coach Mike Brey Notre Dame has locked up announced Wednesday four the No. 11 recruiting class in high school seniors -Tim the country, according to Blue Abromaitis (Farmington, Star Basketball, securing let­Conn.), Tyrone Nash (Queens, ters of intent from three top­N.Y.), Ty Proffitt (London, Ky.) tier prospects. and Carleton Scott (San All three Irish commits are Antonio, Tex.) -signed ranked in the top-100, and all national letters of intent to signed Wednesday at the start play for the Irish beginning of the early signing period. next fall. This is the 11th straight year 
The four had previously that the Irish have signed a given verbal commitments, but top-25 recruiting class, Brey's press conference made matched only by two other it official on the first day of the programs, Connecticut and national signing period. The Tennessee -which signed this Irish coach was not allowed to year's top class, according to 
see SIGNING/page 20 see COMMIT/page 22 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Saint Mary's ends one of its best seasons in recent years 
This fall, they came out of round. court, on the bench, on the time since 1999, advance toBy SAMANTHA LEONARD the gate quickly, winning nine Belles coach .Julie bus, at team meals, in prac­the semi-final round."
Sports Writer 

of their first 10 games and Schroeder-Biek said team tices -it was a great dynam­Another big reason for the hosting their first postseason chemistry contributed to the ic." Belles' success was their cap­Saint Mary's had one of its game since 1999. squad's success. Schroeder-Biek said she was tains -seniors outside hitter best seasons in history. Saint Mary's won that Oct. "I don't believe that I have pleased by how the season Kristen Playko, libero Anne 
The Belles finished with a 31 game 3-2 against Alma -ever had a team that, from turned out. Cusack and outside hitter Ann record of 17-10 overall and 9-its first MIAA tournament win starter to non-starter, sup­"It was very satisfying to Carpenter. 7 in the MIAA. after their sea­since the last time it hosted -ported each other so fully, she accomplish our goal to host Schroeder-Biek had nothing son ended Friday with a 3-0 but went on to lose to No. 12 said. "They enjoyed each the first round of the MIAA loss to No. 12 Calvin. Calvin College in the next other and it showed on the tournament and, for the first see REVIEW page 21 

fOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Irish lock up second offensive line collllllit 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Ediror 
Two top recruiting battles will be decided today, but Notre Dame got good news early in the commitment of an athletic guard. 
The Irish secured their 1Oth verbal com­mitment ­and second among offen­sive linemen -Tuesday for the class 
Photo courtesy scout.com of 2011. Nwankwo 
Em e k a Nwankwo (pronounced wank­wo) of Hollywood, Fla., called Irish coach Charlie Weis to inform him of his decision. 
Nwankwo is a 6-foot-5, 280­pound guard who also plays defensive line for his Chaminade Madonna College Prep team. 
Mike Frank, who covers Notre Dame recruiting for IrishEyes.com, said Nwankwo's commitment was not a surprise. 
"I think Emeka always liked Notre Dame," Frank said. "I think the big problem was convincing his parents that he should be that far away from home. It just took a little while for him to convince 
see NWANKWO/page 20 
MEN'S GOLF 

Coach earns teaching honor 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 

Irish coach Jim Kubinski has been nominated for GOLF Magazine's 2007 "100 Greatest Teachers" list, compiled annu­ally to honor the best instruc­tors in the game. Kubinski is one of "between four and five hundred" PGA professionals selected as nominees. 
Kubinski, who last week received a letter notifying him of his nomination, said he did not promote his own case for this honor but was very happy to learn he had been selected. 
"I was pretty surprised by it actually," Kubinski said. "It is a neat honor to be mentioned with the best teachers in the country." 
see AWARD/page 21 


NFL 
NCAA fOOTBALL 
NHL 

WTATOUR 
NBA 
NBA 
..... 
Steve McNair returns 
Rutgers gets ready for 

Maria Sharapova,
NY Rangers 4 
Boston 110 
Houston 97
u 

Martina Hingis and
z to his old stomping 
pivotal Big East 
Charlotte 108
Carolina 3 
Milwaukee 93 

Svetlana Kuznetsova
grounds Sunday as the 
matchup against 
Michael Nylander 
Delonte West's buzzer 

Tracy McGrady scores
::5 
Louisville. 

each advance in the
Ravens take on the 
scores the shootout goal 
beater in overtime gives 

32 and Yao Ming adds
c::l 
Titans. 

WTA Championships.
to lead the Rangers over 
the Celtics their first 
23 in the Rockets'
c:l: 
the Panthers. 
win of the year. 
victory.
ti page 19 
page 18 
page 15
page 17 
page 14 

page 14
en 









