
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 41: ISSUE 13 FRIDAY. SEPTEMBER 8, 2006 
Ticket office tackles record demand 

Requests surge 37 percent from last year 
By MARY KATE MALONE News Editor 
A seat at tomorrow's Notre Dame vs. Penn State game is so precious that the University had to turn down more than 30,000 alums who requested tickets to the event. 
In fact, this Saturday's football contest was the highest-request­ed game of all time, said Notre Dame Director of ticket opera­tions Josh Berlo. The ticket office received 60,670 requests from alumni for 30,000 available tick­ets -a 37 percent increase in demand from last year. 
There are several ticket lotter­ies for different University con­stituencies, but the ticket office uses the alumni lottery as the 
see TICKETS/page 8 

Observer file photo Fans pack the stadium at the USC game last October. The ticket office had to deny more than 30,000 alums this year. 
Malloy reflects after year-long sabbatical 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Assistant News Editor 
Life is good for the Big Man Upstairs. The upstairs of DeBartolo, that is. 
From his corner office on the third floor of the academic hub, University President Emeritus Father Edward Malloy can finally look out on the school he helped shape for almost two decades, but never truly had the chance to stop and admire. 
"It's amazing how much the campus has changed from the time I stepped into the presi­
dency," he said, gesturing to the quad below. "Everything grew, from the size of the faculty, the diversity of the student body, the quality of the student body -not that I take the credit for all that. All these kind of things, you talk about them and have a rough sense ofwhat's going on, but it's only when you look at them that you really under­stand." 
Malloy has had plenty of time to look during his year-long sabbatical, taken in part to help him transition out of the role of University president and into a 
see MALLOYIpage 6 


NDSP, other agencies brace for traffic spike 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Editor 
With the record demand for football tickets this year comes the expectation of a record­breaking number of cars head­ing to Notre Dame's campus on Saturday before the game. 
"We always expect heavy traffic," said Associate Director of Notre Dame Security/Police Phillip Johnson. "With the record demand for tickets, we do expect to see a number of additional folks." 
To deal with the increase in traffic, NDSP will be assisted by numerous area police agen­cies, including the Indiana State Police. South Bend Police, St. Joseph County Police and officials from the South Bend Traffic and Lighting depart­ment. 
"For people who are new to the Notre Dame community, they should know that special parking rules are in place," Johnson said. 
The most notable change is the one-way traffic pattern, which begins three and a half hours prior to the game and lasts one to two hours follow­ing the conclusion of the game. 
While this change will be unfamiliar to visitors and stu­dents alike, it helps with the flow of safe traffic, Johnson said. 
see PARKJNG/page 8 

More than 800 tickets revoked for scalping 
By MARY KATE MALONE News Editor 
Facing the highest ticket demand in the University's his­tory, the Notre Dame ticket office has worked tirelessly to catch people re-selling their football tickets for above face value. 
Scalping, like ticket demand, is higher than usual this year, said Director of ticket opera­tions Josh Berlo. 
So far, more than 800 tickets have been revoked -and 400 of them were intercepted before they were delivered to the buyer, Berlo said. 
Sellers could be fined or, at worst, have their ticket privi­leges permanently revoked. 
see SCALPING/page 6 


Observer file photo University President Emeritus Edward "Monk" Malloy relaxes in his office on the third floor of DeBartolo Hall. 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM Sheedy given to professor 
Annual award honors Christian Moevs 
By MEGHAN WONS News Writer 
Professor Christian Moevs of the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures was presented with the presti­gious Sheedy Award for teach­ing excellence in the College of Arts and Letters Thursday. 
The award was presented at a ceremony in McKenna Hall Auditorium as part of the Arts and Letters Advisory Council weekend events, Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies Stuart Greene said. 
"The award seeks to recog­nize excellence in teaching, and the people we honor gen­erally not only excel in teach­ing but also in research and in service to the University," Greene said. 
Greene said the first Sheedy Award, named after a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, was presented in 1970 and has been awarded annual­ly ever since. 
An honorarium provided by an anonymous donor is pre­sented to Sheedy Award win­ners to be used as they wish. 
''I'm in the early stages of a new research Rroject, and this honorarium is a godsend," Moevs said. "It will allow me to gather materials and buy essential books. Ultimately, I have faith that it will find its way back to the students, because I will share with them everything I learn in my 
see SHEEDY/page 8 


Area hotels booked and bustling 
Soaring prices and a lack of rooms spur alternative options for fans 
By KATIE PERRY Assistant News Ediwr 
Football fans seeking a hotel room for the home opener this weekend might have better luck sleeping on Charlie Weis' couch -or in the extra bedroom of a com­plete stranger, for that matter. 
There are no more rooms available at the Days Inn of South Bend or the Super 8 Motel in Mishawaka. The Waterford !:states Lodge and the Courtyard by Marriott, both in South Bend, have been full for "a very long time." The Howard Johnson has been sold out for six 
see HOTELS/page 8 


ERIC SALES/The Observer 

Earl Linehan checks into the Morris Inn Thursday. Many local hotels and motels have been sold out for more than a year. 

Friday, September 8, 2006 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Facebook 
news feed 

from hell 
Most weeks, nothing of significance happens in the world. People starve to death, rob each other,. murder, etc. Of course, none of these events can hope to impact our lives as significantly as the one earth J p· 11• d 
shattering devel-oe •aru 1 an opment that Katie Perry everyone is talk­ing about: Face­book is different. News Writers 
The Facebook news feed has changed the complexion of our exis­tence with its abundance of not-quite relevant information. We now have at our fingertips the capacity to know every move our friends, classmates and hot girls (or guys) we friended when we were so trashed that one night make. Soon our entire lives may have the benefit of instantaneous social information: 
8:57a.m.-You have been tagged in the album, "Ugliest people on this campus." 
9:07 a.m. -Your roommate had a girl in your bed last night. 
9:08 a.m. -Your sister slept with your roommate last night. 
9:17 a.m. -Your sister has joined the group "I slept with [your name]'s roommate." 
11:26 a.m. -18 ofyour friends have joined the group "[your nameJ is a tool ... and the new face book is creepy." 
12:14 p.m. -Your girlfriend and Ricky "Latino Lovefest" Martinez are now friends. 
1:18 p.m.-You have been tagged in the album, "Gay, fine by me? Not real-
ly." 

1:43 p.m. -Jeff Samardzija has commented on one of your photos: "Nice hair, idiot." 
2:26 p.m. -Your girlfriend has joined the group "I was poked by Ricky Martinez ... and on Face book too." 
3:19 p.m. -Your mother and your father have ended a relationship. 
4:08 p.m. -Your mother bought new underwear. 
4:11 p.m. -Your father and John "The Baptist" Jenkins have joined the group, "Don't hate the playa, hate the game." 
4:30 p.m. -Ronald Talley has joined the group, "Brady Quinn ... I'd sack that." 
4:41 p.m. -Ronald Talley and Brady Quinn are no longer friends. 
5:37 p.m. -Joe Paterno is attending the Notre Dame-Penn State game (but he will have no idea where he is). 
7:12p.m.-Your sister posted on your roommate's wall, "Do you think [your name here] knows?" 
8:56 p.m. -Your girlfriend has com­mented on one of your photos: "Is that your roommate? He's hot." 
9:34 p.m. -Theodore Hesburgh has invited you to the event, ''13th floor library blacklight rave: book cases and case races." 
Facebook. Where would we be with­out it? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd. edu and Katie Perry at kperryS@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards irself as a professional publiction and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE THING ABOUT FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND WHY? 




Ryan Bradley  Molly McCarthy  Jenny Scully  
senior Zahm  freshman Walsh  freshman Walsh  
..The opening kickoffbecause  ..The game because that's  ··The crowds because I like to  
for the next three hours, all I get to do is watch football. "  what it's all about.,,  people watch. ••  




Eileen Walsh David Henrion Mike Augsberger 
freshman sophomore freshman Walsh Morrissey Keenan 
..Tailgates ..The people on ··pep rallies because campus because before the game everyone gets it's cool to see because it gets pumpedfor the thousands everyone 
, 

game. ofpeople psyched and swarming we're hosting 
,

around ND. , this one. 
IN BRIEF 

Executive Vice President of Production for 20th Century Fox Television Jim Sharp will hold a workshop discussion called "Working in the Film and TV Industries" from 10:30 a.m. to noon today in the Giovanini Commons of the Mendoza College of Business. 
Syndicated columnist and polit­ical analyst Mark Shields, a Notre Dame alumnus, will deliver a presentation on "How Students Can Shape Politics, Government and History" at 11 a.m. today in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
The traditional marching band step-off will be at 4:30 p.m. today in front of the Main Building, heading through cam­pus to its practice in the Joyce Center parking lot. 
Dr. Elizabeth Berry-Kravis, associate professor of pediatrics, neurology and biochemistry at Rush University Medical Center in Chicago, will deliver the 14th annual Emil T. Hofman Lecture at 10 a.m. Saturday in the DeBartolo Hall auditorium. Titled "Developmental Diso­rders and Autism: Hints and Paths to Treatment from the Neuroscience of Fragile X Syndrome," the lecture is free and open to the public. 
Fonner U.S. Rep. Tim Roemer will present a talk titled "Safeguarding America: National Security in the 21st Century" on Thursday, Sept. 14 at 7 p.m. in the DeBartolo Hall auditorium. The event is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

78 55 


78 53 

OFFBEAT 

Louisiana man drills for oil in his 'front yard' 
HOUSTON -Oil prices are so high, that oilman Steve Jordan is drilling a well next to his home near Lake Charles, Louisiana, he said on Wednesday. 
Jordan, 52, said the well will stretch 8,500 feet (2,591 metres) under his house and swimming pool and below the adjacent Calcasieu River. 
He hopes to strike oil in about 10 days on a prospect that wouldn't have been worth drilling when prices were lower, he said. 
''I'm not trying to prove anything," Jordan said in a telephone interview. "I'm trying to make money." 
The Independent Petroleum Association of America, which Jordan belongs to, is publicizing the project. 
Pakistan claims bikini winner is not representative 
ISLAMABAD -Paki­stani authorities are inves­tigating how a Pakistani­born American woman entered a "Miss Bikini" pageant in China as a rep­resentative of predominant­ly Muslim, conservative Pakistan. 
Houston-based Mariyah Moten, 22, took part in the pageant in the Chinese resort of Beihai on August 
28. She won a "Best in Media" title, for being the most photographed and interviewed contestant, according to media reports. 
A government official said Moten-did not have permission to represent Pakistan, where many women only go out in pub­lic covered in a veil. The country does not hold beauty contests. 
Information compiled .from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a:: 
Ll.l ::1: 
ti 
Ll.l 
~ 
...I 
c[ (.) 



64 52 


74 53 

77 60 
0 

HIGH 80
..... 

LOW 60 


Friday, September 8, 2006 page 3 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Business leaders discuss marketing 
By DANA GUSKY News Writer 
Two prominent marketing figures discussed why some brands-such as Apple, MTV, ESPN and Evian -stick in the consumer mind, while others simply fade away, in a lecture at Notre Dame Thursday. 
In a lecture entitled "Keeping Brands Vital in the Midst of Change," Euro RSCG Worldwide CEO Ron Berger and Aston Martin/Jaguar/Land Rover North America presi­dent Mike O'Driscoll said the answer is a combination of impact, confidence and con­nection to the customer. 
Berger's company is a mar­keting agency with high-pro­file customers like Nike, Charles Schwab and Jaguar. His lecture illustrated how he makes a brand "vital" in every sense of the word. Berger broke down several of his customers into case stud­ies, analyzing how and why brands become household names through marketing. 
"We all live in a world where we are overloaded by information, overloaded by images ... and brands have to find a way to stay in your life," Berger said. 
The talk shifted from Evian's image as a beauty product, to Polaroid's use of OutKast's "Hey Ya," to the Harley Owners Group "H.O.G." -but still centered on steps necessary to keep a brand innovative. Berger dis­cussed how important it is to keep in touch with the mod­ern world as well as create a fully integrated platform for the product. 
Everything from the look and the priee of the produets, the advertising and the eom­pany itself must give cus­tomers a certain impression, he said. 
"We develop a tone of voice for a brand," Berger said. 
O'Driscoll, who is one of Berger's own clients, focused on Jaguar's new marketing campaign developed by Euro RSCG Worldwide. "Gorgeous" is a strategy designed to return Jaguar to the sizeable popularity it enjoyed in the 1980s by giving it a more sophisticated, yet hip, image. 
"We have to act not like an automotive brand but like a luxury brand," O'Driscoll said. 
At the end, O'Driscoll was asked several questions about Ford possibly selling Aston Martin, but said he could not worry about things out of his control. 
This lecture is the first of six in a series called Boardroom Insights, a one­credit class given by the College of Business. The lec­tures are open to all students and the public. The next speaker, which is scheduled for Sept. 14 in the Jordan Auditorium, will be Liz Claiborne CEO Paul Cherron. 

Contact Dana Gusky at dgusky@nd.edu 
Mass to address attacks 
Special to The Observer 

The fifth anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks will be observed at the University with a Mass at 5:15 p.m. in the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes on campus. 
University President, Father John Jenkins, will preside at the Mass, and Rev. Robert A. Dowd, C.S.C., assistant professor of politi­cal science, will give the homily. Members of the University's Folk and Liturgical choirs will provide sacred music. 
Five years ago, an estimat­ed 7,000 students, faculty and staff gathered on the South Quad for a special Mass the afternoon of Sept. 
11. By late morning, the Notre Dame community had absorbed the news, all class­es and activities had been canceled and a day of prayer had been declared. 
At the Mass five years ago, University President Emeritus Father Edward Malloy, began by saying: "All I know how to do on these kinds of occasions is simply draw from the well of our faith, that death does not have the final word, that God will make all things new, that we can learn the capacity for love in the hope of faith." 


• j ---• • 
' . -... . ' -.. 
page 4 Friday, September 8, 2006 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
242 n um bers were randomly selected on 'Wednesday and here they ,are:  
6 561 7 583 23 591 63 593 .69 595 87 599 119 610 157 627 166 632 206 638 220 658 242 661 244 665 262 667 326 670 334 672 349 674 354 703 361 705 406 721 430 740 435 1016 444 1047 497 1049 514 1050 518 1070 559 1071  1075 1322 32241802 2059 2599 3523 1082 1327 26351803 2088 3231 3564 1083 1330 26421808 2093 3247 3568 1117 1391 1826 2100 2643 3262 3577 1118 1402 1839 2103 2666 3270 3579 1124 1453 2671 3,2761855 2105 3583 1126 1456 26831875 33092122 3595 1137 1467 26851882 33252132 3596 1139 1501 1889 2145 2699 3337 3602 1143 1504 27011896 2149 3389 3606 1174 1510 2709 3406 36161913 2155 1176 1512 2711 36,2019,21 34092168 1191 1533 27'14 3428 36301929 2176 1194 1565 194.6 2179 2721 3429 3632 1197 1571 27231948 2190 3436 3636 1222 1593 3023 3433 36391953 2224 1224 1603 3031 3444 36531955 2230 1237 1607 30591960 2231 3447 3655 1241 1614 1969 2235 3070 3454. 3662 1249 1681 1984 2249 3075 3462 3664 1260 1692 3086 347'8 36712009 2508 1261 1706 3117 3487 36922037 2518 1270 1735 3135 3491 36952040 2521 1277 1753 2tl42 3157 34942549 3708 1282 1764 3158 35022049 2567 3709 1293 1771 3195 3508 37'302054 2569 1318 1778 3214 35152055 2586  
..·0 .rt·s  ..  ' Winners may purchase 2-fac.e value tickets beginnin~ • Monday, September 11 at 9am 1n the Lafortune Box Off1ce.  

,----------------------~------~---------­
r 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Blair promises to quit within a year 
LONDON -Prime Minister Tony Blair began 
to lose the iron control he once exercised over 
his Labour Party when he committed British 
troops for the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq. 
Three years later, his refusal to call for an 
early end to this summer's Israel-Hezbollah 
fighting was the final provocation for many 
once-loyal supporters. 
Underlining the criticism of his positions on 
both wars was Blair's close alliance with 
President Bush -a friendship widely detested 
within Labour. 
Long derided by critics as Bush's "poodle," 
Blair suffered a further blow at July's G-8 sum­
mit in St. Petersburg, Russia. An open micro­
phone caught a chat in which he seemed embar­
rassingly subservient to Bush, who greeted him 
by shouting "Yo, Blair!" 
On Thursday, Blair gave in to a fierce revolt in 
Labour and reluctantly promised to quit within a 
year. Blair had long resisted calls to publicly set 
a time frame for his departure from office, fear­
ing such an announcement would make him a 
lame duck and sap his remaining authority. 
Iraq takes control of armed forces 
BAGHDAD-U.S.-led forces turned over con­
trol of Iraq's military command to the Shiite-led 
government Thursday, a key step toward the 
eventual withdrawal offoreign troops. 
But the ceremony in the heavily fortified 
Green Zone only transferred authority for one 
of Iraq's 10 divisions and its small air force and 
navy, and it remained unclear how quickly 
Iraqi forces would be prepared to take over 
security. . 
A legislative session nearby, meanwhile, 
degenerated into a shouting match as Sunni 
Arabs accused the majority Shiites of seeking to 
carve Iraq into sectarian enclaves. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush touts security improvements 
ATLANTA -Terrorists today would have a tougher time plotting and carrying out attacks like the ones of Sept. 11 because of security improvements in the past five years, President Bush said Thursday. 
There's no way to know if the attacks would have been prevented by the changes, Bush said, but he contended the nation is safer than in September 2001. 
Keeping his focus on national security leading up to Monday's anniversary of the attacks and November's congressional elections, Bush said more still needs to be done to stop the terrorist threat. 
NASA to try Friday shuttle launch 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -Caught in a scheduling squeeze, NASA decided to try to launch space shuttle Atlantis on Friday without replacing a troublesome electrical component. 
Friday had been the last launch day available before the U.S. space agency ran into a scheduling conflict with the Russian space agency. But NASA man­agers now believe they can try Saturday, if needed, and they were finalizing negoti­ations with the Russians. 
There was a 30 percent chance bad weather would interfere at the 11:40 a.m. EDT Friday launch time. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Senate calls for minimum wage hike 
INDIANAPOLIS Indiana Senate Democrats today called for Indiana to raise the state's minimum wage to $7.25 over two years, from the current $5.15. 
That wage, the same as the federal mini­mum wage, has not been raised since 1997. 
"That's not fair," said Sen. Frank Mrvan, R-Hammond, notiPg the tax cuts the state has given to business during the last decade. 
Democrats pointed to how the cost of basics have risen since 1997. A gallon of gas then was $1.20; now it's about $2.55. 
Friday, September 8, 2006 
Cotv\PILED FROlv\ THE OBSERVER'S \V1RE SERVJCES page 5 
EGYPT 
' 



Unseen bin . Laden footage airs 
Al-Jazeera broadcasts clips of a pre-9/11 meeting with the top planners ofthe attacks 
Associated Press 

CAIRO-An Arab televi­
sion station broadcast pre­
viously unseen footage 
Thursday of a smiling 
Osama bin Laden meeting 
with the top planners of 
the Sept. 11 attacks in an 
Afghan mountain camp 
and calling on followers to 
pray for the hijackers as 
they carry out the suicide 
mission. 

The sections shown on 
Al-Jazeera TV were part 
of a video that al-Qaida 
announced it would 
release later on the 
Internet to mark the fifth 
anniversary of the air­
borne attacks on the 
United States. 

The video includes the 
last testament of two of 
the hijackers, Wail al­
Shehri and Hamza al­
Ghamdi. It shows bin 
Laden strolling in the 
camp, greeting followers, 
who Al-Jazeera said 
included some of the 
hijackers. But their faces 
are not clear in the video, 
and it was not immediate­
ly known which are pur­
portedly shown. 
In one scene, bin Laden addresses the camera, calling on followers to support the hijackers. 
"I ask you to pray for them and to ask God to make them successful, aim their shots well, set their feet strong and strengthen their hearts," bin Laden said. The comments were apparently filmed before the attacks but never before released. 
The footage was the fourth in a series of long videos that al-Qaida has put out to memorialize the suicide hijackings against the Pentagon and World Trade Center, said Ben Venzke, head of IntelCenter, a private U.S. company that monitors militant message traffic and provides counterter­rorism intelligence servic­es for the American gov­ernment. 
The previous ones were showing footage from the planning of the suicide hijackings and hijackers' last testimonies, Venzke told The Associated Press. 
issued  in  April  and  
September  2002  and  
September 2003,  each  

The latest full video probably lasts from 40 minutes to two hours, based on the past ones, he said. Al-Jazeera did not say how it obtained the video, which bore the logo of As-Sahab, al-Qaida's media branch.· 
"They produce long videos like these not just for 9-11, but for any sig­nificant events they feel warrant their attention," Venzke said. 
One aim is to boost 

recruitment, but such videos have several pur­poses -"to speak to their supporters, to raise morale within their own group, to facilitate fundraising, and to serve as a psychological attack," he said. 
In the footage shown by Al-Jazeera, bin Laden is shown sitting outside in what appears to be a mountain camp with his former lieutenant Mohammed Atef and Ramzi Binalshibh, another suspected planner of the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Atef, also known as Abu Hafs al-Masri, was killed by a U.S. airstrike in Afghanistan in 2001. Binalshibh was captured 
l 
i 
four years ago in Pakistan and is currently in U.S. custody, and this week President Bush announced plans to put him on mili­tary trial. 
Bin Laden, wearing a dark robe and white head gear, strolls thrdugh the camp, greeting dozens of followers, some masked, some barefaced, many carrying automatic weapons. 
·other scenes show train­ing at the camp. Masked militants perform martial arts kicks or learn how to break the hold of someone who grabs them from behind. Several militants are shown practicing hid­ing and pulling out fold­out knives. 


Armitage ~s source of CIA leak 
the leak did not originate at the White House as retribution for Wilson's com-· ments about the Iraq war. Wilson, a former ambassador, discounted reports that then-Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein had tried to buy yellowcake uranium from Niger to make a nuclear weapon -claims that wound up in President Bush's 2003 State of the Union address. 
Armitage said he was not a part of a conspiracy to reveal Plame's identity and did not know whether one existed. 
He described his June 2003 conver­sation with Woodward as an after­thought at the end of a lengthy inter­view. 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The former No. 2 State Department official said Thursday he inadvertently disclosed the identity of CIA employee Valerie Plame in conversations with two reporters in 2003. 
Confirming that he was the source of a leak that triggered a federal investi­gation, former Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage said he never intended to reveal Plame's id~ntity. He apologized for his conversations with syndicated columnist Robert Novak and Washington Post reporter Bob Woodward. 
For almost three years, an investiga­tion led by Special Prosecutor Patrick .Fitzgerald has tried to determine whether Bush administration oflicials intentionally revealed Plame's identity as covert operative as a way to punish her husband, former ambassador Joseph Wilson, for criticizing the Bush administration's march to war with Iraq. 
"I made a terrible mistake, not mali­ciously, but I made a terrible mistake," Armitage said in a telephone interview from his home Thursday night. 
He said he did not realize Plame's job was covert. 
Armitage's admission suggested that 

Friday, September 8, 2006
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Monk 
continued from page 1 

less-structured life. Leaning back in his chair, feet propped on a table, he is the picture of relaxation. 
"As I look back [on the sab­batical], it was time very well spent," Malloy said. "My goal was to try to live a balanced life. I didn't really go to any Notre Dame meetings [... ], did­n't teach, and therefore didn't have to grade papers or turn in grades, and I always had a sense that I could develop my day as I wanted to." 
Malloy's days were filled with everything from lecturing and writing, to jet setting across the globe -not exactly a placid retirement. 
As a gift to Malloy at the end of his presidency, several mem­bers of the South Bend commu­nity gave him $10,000 to travel wherever he pleased during his year off. And travel he did. 
In the summer of 2005, Malloy traveled with his two sis­ters and brother-in-law to Italy -a trip funded with another travel gift. Though Malloy had been there before, his family had not, and he said he enjoyed seeing all the sights with them. 
This past January, Malloy took a month-long trip to South Africa, Madagascar, Malaysia, Sri Lanka and Maui, traveling primarily by himself. 
"They told me to spend the money to travel wherever I wanted," he said. "So 1 thought about it, and picked places I had never been before." 
In connection with the Notre Dame Australia program, Malloy went to Sydney in March. Joined by Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman, he met with members of the students and faculty there "as a way of fostering a relationship between the two schools," Malloy said. 
For his last and busiest trip of the summer, as part of the University of Portland's Board of Regents and benefactors, Malloy went on an 11-day tour from Copenhagen, Denmark, to Tallinn, Estonia, to St. Petersburg, Russia, to Helsinki, Finland, to Visby and Stockholm, Sweden, to Rostock, Germany and finally back to Denmark. 
So, after trotting the globe, how does one come back to Indiana? 
"I spent most of my adult life traveling. I've been to seventy countries, so I enjoy traveling and enjoy seeing new places, but I always come back," Malloy said. "This is home for me, and no matter where you travel, no matter how exciting it is, it's always good to get home." 
Malloy, a self-proclaimed book and movie buff, also used the sabbatical to catch up on his neglected pastimes. As part of his travel diaries -which he distributes to "many interested people" -Malloy writes reviews of his latest indulgences in literature and cinema, which not only suggest an incredible speed-reading ability and extensive personal library, but a wide-ranging variety of tastes as well. 
His reads include everything from J.K. Howling's "Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince" to Mia Bloom's "Dying to Kill: The Allure of Suicide Terror" -after extensive read­ing on the subject, Malloy said he considers himself a "mini­expert in terrorism." And, as a fan of the online DVD rental service Netflix, Malloy was able to sample many contemporary, classic and obscure movies, like "Mr. and Mrs. Smith," "Repo Man" and "The Umbrellas of Cherbourg." 

Malloy has also kept himself busy penning his own books, finishing one on the relationship between Notre Dame and Notre Dame Australia (which is not intended for publishing), and working on both a piece on higher education and his own memoir. He has also done com­piling and writing for the University Archives of key moments in Notre Dame's histo­ry that he was involved in, as well as his own personal activi­ties over the years. 
In short, Malloy has done a lot of delving into the past. 
"When you have these jobs, like [University] president, pri­marily you're focused on the present and future. Days are full, you can know parts of schedule a year or two in advance and you have to give a lot of talks and do a lot of trav­eling," he said. "In a sense, there's not as much time to think back on how things have evolved. What last year was about for me was a chance to do that." 
One thing Malloy said he real­ized about his experience as president was how much he was able to be involved in at once -even comparing himself to "someone with all the balls in the air at the same time." 
So, does he miss this constant juggling? 
"No. It's funny, I enjoyed what I did [as president] and I enjoyed my year last year and I enjoy what I do now," Malloy said. "[ ... ] But, when my calen­dar doesn't have a lot of meet­ings, like it did when I was an administrator, I don't go, 'Oh my God, I don't have one meet­ing, or ten meetings today."' 
Post-sabbatical, Malloy is back to teaching -which he did even during his time as president -now working with first-year students in a litera­ture seminar about biography and autobiography. He said he missed the classroom during his sabbatical, though not neces­sarily the paperwork, and espe­cially enjoys working with freshman. 
"One reason I've always 
enjoyed [working] with first­year students is that I've tried to keep up with them as time goes on, and it's amazing to me what they've ended up doing," he said. "In that sense it keeps you hopefully 'forever young,' to quote a song title." 
He also works with the fresh­men in Sorin Hall, where he lives, taking them out to dinner in groups of five to get to know them. 
"It's a big group this year, though, so it's going to take a long time to get through them all," he laughed. 
As University president emeri­tus, Malloy has a far more sub­dued role in the workings of the administration, but still does what he can as a sort of figure­head at a school where tradi­tion is everything. 
"Ask [University President Emeritus] Father Theodore Hesburgh, he'll say the same thing. You just want to be a good soldier, and helpful, and available to do things important for the life of the University," Malloy said. 
This weekend, he will return to Notre Dame Stadium to watch the football games, after watching them at home last year to give University President Father John Jenkins "the opportunity to host every­body and make his mark and do what he needed to do with me staying out of the way," Malloy said. 
''I'm just going to go to the box I share with Father Hesburgh and enjoy the game without the many social obliga­tions I had as president, which will be nice," he said. 
Though his office walls, adorned with pictures of him with popes and presidents, stand as a reminder of his time at the helm of Notre Dame, Malloy seems content with a more low-profile life. 
"I don't feel like there's this big void in my life, or that I need to be in the public eye all the time, or that I want every student on campus to instanta­neously know who I am," he said reflectively. "That's just not important to me." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
ets for above face value, which is prohibited on campus.

Scalping 

"The University prohibits the 
continued from page 1 

Scalping is not isolated to one group of the Notre Dame community-ticket oflice offi­cials have caught students, fac­ulty, alumni, benefactors and Monogram Club members scalping their tickets. 
The ticket office has one full­time employee monitoring more than 20 resale ticket Web sites and classified ads and several others who periodically monitor the sites as well. Sometimes, Berlo said, officials wiH purchase tickets from these sites in order to catch the seller. 
"We have found representa­tives from all parts of the Notre Dame family reselling tickets for profit," Berlo said. "We've seen tickets go for several hun­dred dollars." 
The 800 confiscated tickets were resold to alums who lost in the lottery. 
On game day, ticket office officials, in conjunction with Notre Dame Security/Police will be working undercover to catch people selling their tick-sale of tickets on campus, and the University has the right to confiscate any tickets to be sold above face value," Berlo said. 
Trading tickets, however, is "absolutely" legal. 
Although scalping is legal in the state of Indiana, ticket offi­cials will be catching scalpers ofl'-campus as well and revok­ing their ticket privileges, since University policy prohibits the re-sale of its athletic tickets above face value. 
"The Internet helps us catch people.... We're able to moni­tor more of it than we could historically," Berlo said. 
Ticket scams are also on the rise. It is not uncommon to find people asking for deposits or down payments on tickets they don't actually have. But fraud­ulent activities are harder to catch, Berlo said. 
"There's not a lot we can do about that other than educate our customers on how to avoid them," he said. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

R.ESTAURl\NT & ALEHOUSE PUB 
lflll~lll~ '1'111~ JillSII 'l'.illl~f;il.'l'l~. 
UI~FOIU~, DIJRIN(;, 1\ND AF'I'ER '1'111~ G1\MI~ • 
FOO'l'Bili-L WEEKENn HOIJUS 
l<'lUDAY Restaurant: 11:oo am • Midnight Pub: 11:30 am -2:oo am 
SA'I'URDAY Restaurant: 8:oo am · Midnight Pub: 8:oo am -2:oo am 


Legends is located 100 yards south of Notre Dame Stadium. 
.www.legendsofnotredame.org 574.631.2582 
•JOIN IJS J<'Oil OIJR EYE OI,I~NEU IIRI~i\IUi'AS'l'! FOO'I'Ri\1.1. Stl'I'IJRilAYS J<'RO~I U:OO 1\~l-11:00 AM. 

Qualityoff-campus tiousing 
Leasing for 2007-2008 school year 
Houses, Townhouses, Apartments 
• Close to campus  • Washers & dryers  
• Student neighborhoods  • Dishwashers  
• Security systems  • Internet ready  
• 24-hour maintenance staff  • Lawn seNice  


Calf today -properties rent quickly. Contact Kramer at (574) 315•5032 (cefiJ (574) 234-2436 (office) 
To view an of our houses, visit www.kramerhouses.com 

r------------------------~~-----------------­

Friday, September 8, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
11,331.44 -74.76
jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composire Volume: I, I 00 138 2, I 46 2,225,422,778 

S&PSOO 1,294.02 -6.24 fTSf IOO(London) 5,858.10 -71.20 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  -0.49  -0.19  38.48  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.47  -0.09  19.22  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -0.41  -0.02  4.91  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.70  -0.18  25.43  
JDS UNIPHASE CP ODSU)  -0.94  -0.02  2.11  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.12  -0.006­ 4./95  
13-WEEK BILL  0.00  0.000  4.830  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.26  -0.0 I 3  4.939  
5-YEARNOTE  -0.23  -0.0 I I  4.735  
Commodities  
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.18  67.32  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -16.90  625.80  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.45  91.30  
Excha  e Rates  
YEN  116.4000  
EURO  0.7857  
POUND  0.5331  
CANADIAN$  1.1102  

IN BRIEF 
Amazon.com announces new feature 
SEATILE -Amazon.com Inc. latmched a digi­
tal video downloading service Thursday, ending 
months of speculation that the Internet retailer 
would be getting into the online TV and movie 
business. 
The service, dubbed Amazon Unbox, will offer 
thousands of television shows, movies and other 
videos from more than 30 studios and networks, 
the company said. 
TV shows will cost $1.99 per episode, and most movies will go for $7.99 to $14.99; movies can also be rented for $3.99. 
Amazon Unbox will offer shows from CBS, News Corp.'s Fox, MTY, Nickelodeon, PBS, BBC, A&E, Discovery Channel, Comedy Central and The History Channel, among others. General Electric Corp.'s NBC and Walt Disney Co.'s ABC were noticeably absent on the list of participating net­works. MTV, Nickelodeon and Comedy Central are owned by Viacom Inc. 
Seven major studios are participating in Amazon.com's service: Viacorn's Paramount, News Corp.'s 20th Century Fox, Sony Corp.'s Sony Pictures, GE's Universal Studios, Time Warner Inc.'s Warner Bros., Lionsgate Entertainment Corp. and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. 
Dell chairman pushes video games 
AUSTIN -A month after being hit by a massive battery recall, Dell Inc. founder and Chairman Michael Dell emphasized the com­pany's -and his own -forays into video games. 
"The truth is. I don't have as much time to play as I probably would like to," Dell, one of the few dressed in a suit, told a packed crowd at the Austin Game Conference. 
Dell's remarks came in what was billed as a "f'ireside chat" discussion on the show floor of the annual trade show. This year's event, at the Austin Convention Center, drew more than 2,000 attendees. 
Dell didn't address the company's ongoing woes, and audience members who took part in a question-and-answer session seemed more interested in future product upgrades and features than fiscal issues made by Sony Corp. and acknowledged it was being investigated for unspecified accounting issues by the Securities and Exchange Commission last month. 
Home Depot initiates change 
The home inzprovement chain spends $350 million to push customer service 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA-A customer 
service push three years ago 
by The Home Depot Inc. was 
hailed as a much-needed 
change at the home 
improvement chain. Now, 
with the economy slowing, 
the company is again trying 
with an extra $350 million 
in changes at its stores. 
The company hopes not 
only to bring in more cus­
tomers, but to also soothe 
investors who have driven 
Home Depot stock down 
more than 14 percent since 
the beginning of the year. 
Win or lose, Chief 
Executive Officer Bob 
Nardelli says he is sticking 
with hi'i strategy. 
"What chairmen and CEOs 
have to do is prioritize," 
Nardelli said in a recent 
interview in the Atlanta 
bureau of The Associated 
Press. "Those that don't run 
the risk of trying to satisfy 
everyone and accomplishing 
nothing." 

In 2003, as Atlanta-based Home Depot faced a grow­ing challenge from rival Lowe's, the company said it would spend $400 million that year alone to modernize many of its stores, retrain employees and install com­puters to teach workers about the products they sell. 
The stakes may be greater this time around, with high­Davidowitz said Nardelli's Nardelli said. employees that provide good er interest rates, a housing challenge is much the same "It's kind of a media sport service.
slowdown and same-store 
as it was three years ago -to pit one against the other, The changes are part of asales on the decline. There's to make Home Depot more but there are a lot more theme Home Depot hasless talk about competitive appealing to customers by competitors out there based stressed in the past ­
pressures and more talk 
improving service and the upon specific products, improving the customerabout Nardelli's perform­feel of its stores. He suggest­whether it's a lumber yard experience -but there is a
ance, his hefty pay and 
ed Nardelli take a cue from or whether it's products in a greater urgency now, ana­Horne Depot's stock price. 
other big-box retailers. different particular channel lysts say. Same-store sales, a
The company said last 
"Go to Costco and look at of distribution," he added. measure that comparesmonth its full-year earnings those wonderful people giv­"And we try to understand sales at stores open at leastgrowth will be at the low ing out those free samples of all of that from a market a year, fell 0.2 percent in theend of its guidance. 
food," Davidowitz said. "Go standpoint." second quarter. 
"Home Depot makes a 
to Target and look at the Home Depot says it is George Whalin, president
tremendous amount of 
feeling you get when you go increasing the availability of of Retail Managementmoney when people remod­into the store. That's what its employees in stores, com­Consultants in San Marcos,el their homes," said retail he's got to go to school on." pleting the installation of Calif., said throwing money
consultant Howard 
Nardelli said Home Depot self-checkout terminals in at the problem may not beDavidowitz, chairman of doesn't have its head in the all stores, and adding cus­the answer.
Davidowitz & Associates Inc. 
sand. tomer service callboxes in "It's not about money, it'sin New York. "That's what "Obviously, you can't get selected stores. It also has about culture," Whalin said. 
went on for the last decade away from the direct com­introduced a 24-hour cus­"When you create a culturebecause we had the greatest parisons of Burger King and tomer service hotline and of a company that under­home building boom iri our McDonald's, Coke and Pepsi, has set aside $30 million in stands retail, businessescountry. That's coming to an Home Depot and Lowe's," bonuses for stores and thrive.''
end." 




Stocks fall due to investors' worries 
digest sour anecdotal evidence landing versus a soft landing," said 
Associated Press 

Thursday. Beazer Homes USA Inc., Jim Herrick, head of equity trading 
llovnanian Enterprises Inc. and KB at Robert W. Baird & Co. He con­
NEW YORK -Stocks fell for the Home warned that the home-build­tends the mounting news about a second straight day Thursday after ing sector is facing diffkulties such housing slowdown has spooked warnings from several home­as cancellations and spikes in inven­investors because of the major role builders raised investors' concerns tories. the robust housing market played in about an economic slowdown and The bad news only worsened driving economic growth in reeent comments about inflation from San Thursday afternoon when news years. francisco Federal Reserve services quoted Yellen as saying the The Dow Jones industrial average President Janet Yellen offered little "the inllation outlook remains high­fell 74.76, or 0.66 percent, to comfort. ly uncertain." 11,331.44. 
Wall Street has been trying to Yellen also said data suggest both Broader stock indicators also anticipate whether the Fed will keep the housing market and the overall declined. The Nasdaq fell 12.55, or interest rates stable -or resume its economy are cooling; the question 0.58 percent, to 2,155.29 after post­rate hikes to keep inllation in check for investors is how quickly is that ing its largest single-day point drop -when it mf~ets later this month. occurring. in more than a month on 
Investors, already armed with "It seems to me that the market is Wednesday. and the Standard & recent economic data pointing to a trading lower on the fears that the Poor's 500 index was off 6.24, or housing slowdown, were forced to economy is perhaps having a hard 0.48 percent, at 1,294.02. 
·1 
I 
J 
' I 
Friday, September 8, 2006
pageS The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Hotels 
continued from page 1 

months, and the Jamison Inn has been sold out for a year. 
At every area hotel, motel, inn and lodge, the story is the same one -"We're completely booked." 
Gina Schumacher, director of marketing at the South Bend Marriott, said rooms for this weekend have been sold out for 
months. On "We were 54 rooms Wednesday, rooms 
overbooked a year 
were available for 

ago for the Penn 
$189. Those fans lucky enough to State game, but we 
secure rooms for . knew {some/ people 
this weekend will 

wouldn't be able to 
be charged $699 a night, Schumacher get tickets. ·• said. 
The Marriott 

Dave Azinger 
fixes its football 

Ramada Inn manager 
weekend rates 

depending on the game and popular­ity of the opponent, she said. Prices this season range from $449 to $699 a night, with the Penn State and UCLA games priced highest. 
Dave Azinger, general manag­er of the Ramada Inn of Elkhart, said cancellations have freed up a handful of rooms in his hotel, but rooms sold out more than a year ago. 
"We were 54 rooms over­booked a year ago for the Penn State game, but we knew [some] people wouldn't be able to get tickets. In January we finally got even," he said. "For us over here in Elkhart, that's good." 
The Ramada Inn is nearly 20 miles from campus. Azinger said the hotel normally charges $99 a night, but on football weekends the price is $229 a night with a two-night mini­mum stay. 
Azinger said the hotel is "in very good shape" -that is, fill­ing fast or nearly sold out -for 
the Michigan, Purdue, Stanford and UCLA game weekends as well. There are still "a lot" of rooms left for the November North Carolina and Army games, he said. 
Azinger said the number of reservations for these games will depend on how the team fares 
the rest of the season. 
"If they play like they did the first quarter last weekend, I'll probably have more rooms open," he said. "But if we can go into Purdue undefeated, I'll have no qualms that we will sell out for all the games." 
Given the unavailability of area hotels, some local resi­dents are offering up their homes or parts of their homes to fans desperate for a place to lay their heads this weekend. 
Patricia Kil of South Bend is renting out a room in her home for $350 to $400 for two nights this weekend. For a two-night price of $400, Kil is also renting out her entire lake cottage, which is about 30 minutes from campus. 

"I've never tried to rent out my house before," she said. "I thought it would be nice for someone who didn't have any place to go. We have extra room so I thought, why don't they come stay?" 
Kil said though nobody has contacted her yet. she is hoping last minute ticket-buyers will seize the opportunity. She plans on extending her offer for all home games this season. 
Carol Gurson, owner of the Yakety Yak Cafe in Mishawaka, is renting out the two bedroom apartment above her restaurant and bar this and every home football weekend. 
Gurson said she bought the business and apartment space above it last year. Since then, she has completely renovated the upstairs area into a bed­room apartment to be used exclusively for rental during home football weekends at the price of $600 a night. 
"When Notre Dame did so well [last year]. we saw news reports about people not having hotel rooms and we thought this would be the best thing to do," she said. "They can stay upstairs and then come down and patronize the bar." 
Contact Katie Perry at 
kperry5@nd.edu 

Tickets 
continued from page 1 

"benchmark" when determining demand. 
Alumni who have made an annual contribution of $100 or more to the University can apply for two tickets to as many home and away games as they choose. The University received more ticket requests than tickets avail­able for every horne game this year. 
Demand was so high that some 500 alumni were not given any tickets at all. 
"It's all driven by how many games an individual applies for," Berlo said. "The more games you apply for, the better your chances of winning." 
Alumni were not the only ones affected by the high demand. Countless constituencies of the University have access to football tickets as well, and all were affected by the unprecedented number of ticket requests, said Vice President for University Relations Lou Nanni. 
The University allots tickets for students, faculty, members of the Monogram Club and Sorin Society and countless other organizations. But Nanni did not say exactly how many tickets each group receives or how they allot them. 
"That's where you get into the specifics," Nanni said. "There's no quick answers, no quick and easy way. It's like asking about the admissions process." 
Nanni did say, however, that the University is evaluating the current computerized lottery sys­tem -which was last revamped in 1997 -and looking for ways to improve it. 
"We're looking at the lottery and trying to make it more acces­sible to the average alum," Nanni said, noting that Notre Dame faced a similar problem in the early 1990s when the football team was "at its peak" and the stadium had not yet been expanded. 
"What we're experiencing right now is not unprecedented.... [But] it's really the first time that the lottery system has been put to the test since the stadium expan­sion," Nanni said, referring to the $50 million stadium expansion completed in 1997. 
Notre Dame's ticket lottery sys­tem is unique, Nanni said. Most universities with top football pro­grams have 80 percent of stadi­um seating set aside for season ticket-holders. But at Notre Dame, only 20 percent of seats are held for season tickets. By keeping the number of season­ticket seats low, the University enables more alumni to come back to campus. 
"It's one of the differences we pride ourselves on, to make the game more accessible to alum­ni," Nanni said. "But this year has been a particular challenge so we have to revisit the lottery system to make some decisions to increase access." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at 
mmalone3@nd.edu 


Parking 
continued from page 1 

Parking lots south of the Joyce Center, library and stadi­um, as well as the lots by the Mendoza College of Business and Hesburgh Center, will all be open only to those with parking passes, which are ordered in advance through the Notre Dame ticket offiee. 
Johnson said NDSP will be towing any car in those lots beginning Saturday at 6 a.m., as no overnight parking is per­mitted in any parking lot. 
"All parking lots south of Douglas road are reserved," he said. 
All game day drive-up park­ing is located in the White Field north of Juniper Road. 
RVs and buses are allowed to park in "one area of White Field," Johnson said. 
Transpo Shuttle Buses begin a two-bus service to Library Circle shortly after White Field opens. Service increases to include up to 10 buses as game time approaches and also run until "all of the lines are gone or at least one hour after the game ends (whichever is longer}," according to the tick­et office press release. 
Johnson also said Transpo buses will shuttle students and visitors from select off-campus locations. 
According to a Notre Dame ticket office press release, prices vary depending on the lot and size of vehicle. Reserved parking passes for a spot in the paved Library lot is $35, compared to $25 for spots in the unpaved Blue North and Edison South lots. Prices for public lots vary: $60 for a bus pass or a RV drive-up pass in White Field, compared to $20 for cars in White Field North or handicapped parking in D2 or White Field. 
All lots open at 7 a.m. and close three hours after the game concludes. 
With the campus roads proj­ect nearly finished after two years of work, Johnson said he expects traffic to flow well for inbound traffic -which occurs over four to five hours ­though there are still questions about outbound traffic. 
"We know that outbound traffic will be heavy. Twyckenh am is pretty effi­cient," said Johnson of the new four-lane north-south connec­tor road east of campus. "Juniper Road is closed through the central part of campus, and we know that will be unfamiliar for many visi­tors." 
Johnson said police officers will be monitoring tailgates in the lots. Area police will be on hand in the hours leading up to the game to make sure "family friendly behavior" is main­tained during tailgates and pre-game activities, he said. 
"We don't want to arrest any­one land] we want everyone to have a wonderful day, but we will b(~ enforcing Indiana state law," Johnson said. 
Tailgating during the football game is prohibited. 
"I encourage everyone to enjoy what I think is one of the greatest family traditions in the country -but not during the game," Johnson said. 
In accordance with the St. Joseph County ordinance, pass outs or smoking in "any part of Notre Dame Stadium" is pro­hibited. 
According to the Football Student Tailgate Information Web site, only Notre Dame stu­dents can serve as registered hosts of tailgate parties, which can be located near the Edison South parking area. Non-alco­holic tailgates may be held near the Joyce South parking lot. Students who are 21 are allowed to host tailgates with alcoholic beverages -including hard alcohol as long as "it is possessed and consumed with­in the guidelines of University policies and state laws." 
Beer kegs, however, are never permitted on University grounds. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 

Sheedy 
continued from page 1 
·work." 

Moevs was nominated by a 
student who praised Moevs, 
calling his class "a journey 
through the core of the liber­
al arts" and "an inter-textual 
'close reading' that hits at the 
profound questions motivat­
ing our pursuit of knowledge." 

..What is most
"I never would have bel'ieved wonderful about that class could the Sheedy [Award] 
be a transcen­

is that it descends 
dental, spiritual 

experience," the upon one unasked, student wrote. unsought.""Now, I am con­
vinced through 

Christian Moevs
experience." Moevs said he award recipient 
was deeply moved when he found out he had been nomi­nated for the award by a stu­dent. 
"What is most wonderful about the Sheedy [Award] is that it descends upon one unasked, unsought," he said That the initial instigator was a student is a sign of the 
mutual  giving that is  the  
essence  of  teaching  and  
learning.''  

According to Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters Web site, Moevs joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1994 and his "scholarly interests include Dante, medieval Italian literature, lyric poetry and poetics and the intersec­tion between literature and philosophy." 
Greene said the Sheedy Award committee "unani­mously supported" presenting Moevs with the award because of the "range of courses he has taught and the consistently high teaching evaluations he receives." 
"His classes are very df~manding, but his students reeognize and apprcdate the 
high standards he sets for them," he said. 
The 2006 Sheedy Award committee was comprised of Greene. Professor Jim McAdams from the Department. ,of Politi'cal Science, Professor Gail Bederman from the Department of History, Professor Steve Fallon from the Program of Liberal Studies and undergraduate 
Dean's Fellow L a n c e Chapman. 
The commit­tee considered a dozen nomi­nees for the Sheedy Award this year, Greene said. Once someone has been nomi­nated for the award, they remain a nomi­
nee on the list for five years. This was the first year Moevs has been nominated. 
"He's a terrific colleague who is very dedicated to his students and is really deserv­ing of this award for the ways in which he motivates his stu­dents," Greene said. 
Greene said a number of students have chosen to study languages as a major or minor, study in Rome and do research as a result of their classroom experience with Moevs. 
When asked about his teaching philosophy, Moevs said he teaches "to prevent understanding that is unac­companied by inner change," a phrase from Ludwig Wittgenstein. 
Last years' Sheedy Award winner, Professor William Ramsey from the Department of Philosophy, introduced Moevs. Moevs delivered a brief address about love as the essence of teaching. 
Contact Meghan Wons at mwons@nd.edu 

Friday, September 8, 2006 page 9 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 

Health advisers reject new report 
Experts not certain ofdental filling safety 
Associated Press WASHINGTON Government health advisers rejected a federal report that concluded dental fillings used by millions of patients are safe, saying further study of the mercury-laden amalgam is needed. A joint panel of Food and Drug Administration advisers did not declare the so-called "silver fillings" unsafe. But in a 1 3-7 vote Thursday, the advisers said the federal report didn't objectively and clearly present the current state of knowledge about the fillings. In a second 13-7 vote, the panelists said the report's conclusions about safety weren't reasonable, given the quantity and quality of infor­mation available. The FDA had asked the panel of outside advisers to weigh the report, a review of 34 recent research studies. The report had found "no significant new information" that would change the FDA's earlier determination that mercury-based fillings don't harm patients, except in rare cases where they have aller-· gic reactions. "For the general population, amalgams are safe. There is evidence of that," said Dr. Karl Kieburtz, a University of Rochester professor and chairman of one of the two panels. Still, Kieburtz and other panelists said remaining uncertainties about the risk the fillings may pose to some groups demanded further study. 
In particular, research is needed on the effect of dental mercury on children, the fetuses of pregnant women with fillings and others whose bodies may absorb, distribute, process and eliminate mercu­ry differently, they said. 
"There are too many things we don't know, too many things that were excluded," said Michael Aschner, a pro­fessor of pediatrics and phar­macology at Vanderbilt University and a panel con­sultant. He cast two "no" votes. 
Panelists also said more study was needed on whether metcury fillings give off more vapors when they're being placed or removed. 
Dr. Halph Sacco, of Columbia University, said con­sumers shouldn't panic and that there was no need to have their amalgam fillings removed. 
The votes were a "start" to sparking greater dialogue and awareness of the issue, said consumer activist Sara Moore­Hines, 57. 
"If we don't want it in our fish, we don't want it in our thermometers, what is it doing in our heads?" said Moore-Hines, a Pennsylvania counselor. 
She and other activists had pressed the panel to recom­mend the FDA ban mercury fillings. 
"Do the right, decent, hon­orable and God-loving thing: There needs to be an immedi­ate embargo on mercury fill­ings for everyone, or at least pregnant women and chil­dren, because they are our future," said Michael Burke, who blamed mercury fillings for the early onset Alzheimer's disease diagnosed in his wife, Phyllis, in 2004. 
Dr. Michael Fleming, a Durham, N.C., dentist and the consumer representative on the panel. asked the FDA to consider restricting the use of amalgam in children younger than 6 and in pregnant women. The activists ­dozens attended the two-day meeting -met his proposal with applause. 
"We are going to take the recommendations, your com­ments, and we will start eval­uating the next steps, with the white paper and this whole issue of dental amalgam," Dr. Norris Alderson, the FDA's associate commissioner for science, told the panel. 
Amalgam fillings by weight are about 50 percent mercury, joined with silver, copper and tin. Dentists have used amal­gam to fill cavities -and have argued about their safe­ty -since the 1800s. Today, tens of millions of Americans receive mercury fillings each year. Amalgam use has begun to taper off, though, with many doctors switching to resin composite fillings that blend better with the natural coloring of teeth. 
With amalgam fillings, mer­cury vapor is released when patients chew and when they brush their teeth. Significant levels of mercury exposure can cause permanent damage to the brain and kidneys. Fetuses and children are especially sensitive. 
Scientists have found that mercury levels in the blood, urine and body tissues rise in conjunction with mercury fill­ings. However, even among people with numerous fillings, exposure levels are well below those known to be harmful, the FDA report said. 
2 0 0 6-0 7 SEASON NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 

A(.4jt('')I'S'1 F1 ,., '') "t'l rr·l·le· ·r '')]'l(l(")l'l S'"'1t lge
_.. _.·· .. _ • k .. I ( I_ . .. __ .-_ . . ___, .. ~--/ . . -.. -_ .. k ~t-~-j 




HAMLET 
b y Wi I I i a·m S h a k e s p e a r e 

Wednesday, September 13, 7:30 p.m. Thursday, September 14, 7:30 p.m. Friday, September 15, 7:30p.m. Washington Hall, University of Notre Dame 
General Public $18 • Faculty/Staff/Senior Citizens $16 • Students $12 
Tickets are available through the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts ticket office. Visa, rll1asterCard, and American Express orders accepted. Call574~631-2800 or purchase online at http://perfonningarts.rdedu 
The Actors From The London Stage residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Senes. 
~ U N IV E.' R S I T Y 0 f 
~NOTRE DAME 

Unique Microsoft school now open 
"learners" -use smart cards
$63 million building 
to register attendance, open
features digital lockers their digital lockers and track calories they consume. They carry laptops, not books, and 
Associated Press the entire campus has wireless Internet access. 
PHILADELPHIA -Microsoft Teachers, or "educators," Chairman Bill Gates has rather than using blackboards, famously called high schools have interactive "smart "obsolete" and warned about boards" that allow teachers to their effect on U.S. competi­zoom in and out, write or 1.' 
_,

tiveness. Now, his company draw, and even link to the ,o 
< 

has a chance to prove that it Internet. can help fix the woes of public There's no library, but an education. "interactive learning center" 
After three years of plan­where information is all digital ning, the Microsoft Corp.­and a "multimedia specialist" designed "School of the will help out students. 
Future" opened its doors Thursday, a "'This is completely 
gleaming white 
differentfrom any
modern facility looking out of Philadelphia school 
place amid rows rve ever seen.,, of ramshackle homes in a work­
Tramelle Hicks
ing-class West 
Instead of a cafeteria, there's a food court with restaurant­style seating. The perform­ance center -where two sections 

P h i I a d e l p h i a West Philadelphia resident rotate close to 
neighborhood. 
The school is 
being touted as unlike any in 
the world, with not only a 
high-tech building -students 
have digital lockers and teach­
ers use interactive "smart 
boards" -but also a learning 
process modeled on Microsoft's 
management techniques. 
"Philadelphia came to us ... and asked us to design a school," said Craig Mundie, chief research and strategy officer of Redmond, Wash.­based Microsoft. "We're going to take our best shot." 
The company didn't pay the $63 million cost -that was borne by the Philadelphia School District -but shared its personnel and management skills. About 170 teens, nearly all black and mainly low­income, were chosen by lottery to make up the freshman class. The school eventually plans to enroll up to 750 stu­dents. 
Sabria Johnson, a 14-year­old from West Philadelphia, said she is excited to be attending the school. 
"We're getting a chance to do something new," said the freshman, who hopes one day to go to Harvard or to the London College of Fashion. "We don't get a lot of opportu­nities like the suburban kids." 
Mundie said companies have long been concerned that schools aren't churning out graduates with the skills and know-how that businesses require in employees to com­pete globally -and mental acuity is especially critical to Microsoft. 
"Our raw material is smart people," he said. 
School district CF.O Paul Vallas said he was impressed by more than just the compa­ny's technology. 
"I was also taktn by their culture," Vallas said. "They created a culture within which ideas can be generated and acted upon." 
At the 162,000-square-foot high school, which sits on nearly eight acres, the day starts at 9:15 a.m. and ends at 
4:19 p.m., simulating the typi­cal work day. Officials said studies show students do bet­ter when they start later in the day. 
Students -who are called 
create a 
smaller space 

-replaces the typical audito­
rium. 

"This is completely different from any Philadelphia school I've ever seen," said Tramelle Hicks, 39, of West Philadelphia, whose 15-year­old daughter Kierra is going to the school. She said she believes he daughter would benefit from learning strategic 1 and organizational skills from . ~ Microsoft. 
The high school will use an "education competency wheel," patterned after a set of desirable traits Microsoft encourages among its employ­ees. Officials, teachers and students are to be trained in dozens of skills, including organizing and planning, negotiating, dealing with ambiguity and managing rela­tionships. 
Students have scheduled appointments with teachers, typed into their online calen­dars, instead of being limited to structured times for classes. Their laptops carry software that assesses how quickly they're learning the lesson. If they get it, they'll dive deeper into the subject. If not, they get remedial help. 
Lessons will have more incorporation of current events to teach subjects. For instance, a question of whether Philadelphia is safe from the avian flu will teach students about geography, sci­ence and history. 
"Learning is not just going to school," said Shirley Grover, the school's energetic prineipal who came from the American School in Milan, Italy. "Learning is equal to life." 
In addition, students at the school must apply to college to get a diploma. 
This new approach to educa­tion has sparked the interest of Doug Lynch, vice dean of the Graduate School of Education at the University of Pennsylvanja. 
"Two things are quite intriguing -the willingness of the district and Microsoft to try something different." Lynch said. He cautioned, however, that while trying new methods may be valuable "we have to be careful because you're messing with kids' lives." 


Friday, September 8, 2006 
page 10 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Police arrest man linked with Ariz. 'Baseline Killer' case 
Mark Goudeau held for two sexual assaults; authorities stop short of saying they've caught Phoenix predator 

Associated Press 
PHOENIX -Police arrested a man in two sexual assaults blamed on the city's elusive Baseline Killer. But they stopped well short of saying Thursday that they have caught the predator who has been spreading fear across the Phoenix area. 
Mark Goudeau, a 42-year-old construction worker, was arrested Wednesday and accused of attacking two sis­ters, ages 21 and 24, in September 2005 while they were walking in a park at night. 
Police said forensic evidence tied him to the two crimes, but they would not elaborate, and did not say exactly how the women were assaulted. 
The Baseline Killer, so-named because his earliest crimes occurred along Phoenix's Baseline Road, has been linked to 23 crimes in the Phoenix metropolitan area dating to August 2005, including eight killings, 11 sexual assaults of women and girls, and several robberies. Investigators said 

Senate backs war with $63 million 
Money will go toward military operations in Iraq, Afghanistan 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Senate agreed to spend an additional $63 billion for military opera­tions in Iraq and Afghanistan as lawmakers on Thursday passed a massive bill that funds the Pentagon. 
The bill sailed through by a vote of 98-0 after senators added money to help track down al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden and fight the opium trade in Afghanistan that is helping fuel the Taliban' s resur­

gence. "Our bill tells the of money to pur­The over-sue al-Qaida's
terrorist that
whelming sup­leaders. port for the protecting our nation Senators also overall bill and is the first priority -voted 51-45 in the money to support of an
and that we are going
support U.S. amendment by
to deliver to bin Laden 
troops in harm's Sen. Charlo~ way came the justice that a mass Schumer, D­despite increas­N.Y., to provide
murderer deserves.,, 
ing criticism by $700 million for Democrats of Pentagon efforts the Bush admin­Sen. Kent Conrad to combat the istration's han­0-N.D. opium trade in 
dling of the war in Iraq. 
The bill now totals $469.7 bil­lion. It grew by more than $16 billion during a debate that began in July before it was sus­pended during lawmakers' four­week August recess. 
By a 96-0 vote, senators approved $200 million to revive a CIA unit dedicated to hunting down bin Laden and other al­Qaida leaders. News accounts in July said a CIA unit dedicated to capturing bin Laden had been disbanded. 
"What does it say to violent jihadists that a terrorist master­mind remains alive and well five years after killing 3,000 Americans?" said Sen. Kent Conrad, D-N.D. "Our bill te1ls the terrorists that protecting our nation is the lirst priority -and that we are going to deliver to bin Laden the justice that a mass murderer deserves," said Conrad, who sponsored the leg­

islation with Sen. Byron Dorgan, D-N.D. 
Intelligence officials have said the realignment of CIA efforts on al-Qaida reflects a view that the terrorist group is not as hierarchical as it used to be, as well as a concern about al­Qaida-inspired groups that have begun carrying out attacks inde­pendent of bin Laden and his deputy, Ayman al-Zawahri. 
Sen. Ted Stevens, R-Alaska, said the amendment was unnec­essary because the overall defense meas­ure has plenty 
Afghanistan. 

The Defense Department bill originally con­tained $50 billion for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Some $13 billion was added last month to pay to replace Army and Marine Corps equipment lost or worn out in harsh conditions in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Lawmakers expect an addi­tional $7 billion will be added during House-Senate talks on a compromise bill. The compara­ble level of defense funding passed by the House in June was $458.6 billion. 
With the latest infusion of war funds, Congress will have approved about $500 billion for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and other anti-ter­rorism efforts in the five years since the Sept. 11 terrorist assaults, according to the Congressional Hesearch Servicf'. 
Appropriations for the Iraq 
and Afghanistan wars averaged almost $10 billion per month for the current year, so President Bush early next year will have to make another request for money for military operations in Iraq. 
The bill also contains $1.8 bi1­lion to construct 370 miles of fencing and almost 500 miles of vehicle barriers along the U.S.­Mexico border. 
The border security money would break budget caps set this year. But there is election­year urgency to take at least some steps on illegal immigra­tion because GOP efforts to pass a broad immigration overhaul have stalled. 
The Pentagon spending bill, a homeland security measure and perhaps legislation with money for veterans' programs will probably be the only annual appropriations bills to pass Congress by the Oct. 1 start of the new budget year. 
The rest of the spending bills covering domestic agencies will wait until a lame-duck session after the Nov. 7 elections. 
The defense bill contains $99 billion for personnel costs; $126 billion for operations and main­tenance; $81 billion for weapons procurement; and $73 billion for research and development. 
The Senate cut about $2 bil­lion from Bush's targets for pro­curement of new weapons. That includes $250 million from the Army's request of more than $3.5 billion for the Future Combat System. It is the ser­vice's key weapons program and is expected to produce more than a dozen manned and unmanned vehicles and aircraft for combat. 
To a considerable degree, the defense bill demonstrates the flexibility with which the Congress and the administration treat budget limits set on the Pentagon. But senators from western states also succeeded in adding $275 million at the last minute to combat wildfires. 
they connected the crimes through either forensic evi­dence or similarities in the way they were committed. 
"This suspect has been arrested for the sexual assault of two victims in one case only and is not connected to any of the other offenses in this series at this time," Police Chief Jack Harris said. 
He said there may be other people who committed crimes that are part of the Baseline Killer investigation who have not yet been caught. 
Goudeau made an initial appearance in court Thursd&y, looking fatigued and a bit shell­shocked as he was asked by a judge to state his name and birthdate. He was booked for investigation of aggravated assault, kidnapping, sexual abuse and sexual assault and was ordered held without bail. 
His lawyer, Corwin Townsend, said he would plead not guilty. 
"My husband is innocent," Goudeau's wife, Wendy Carr, told The Associated Press in a telephone interview. "This is a huge miscarriage of justice. 
CLASSIC ROCK PARODIES 
The Electric Arnish 
as heard on the ..Bob & Torn " shoH·. 
And they have an innocent man in prison. This is all a mistake. He shouldn't be in prison for something he didn't do." 
Police Cmdr. Kim Humphrey said Goudeau resembles a widely circulated police sketch depicting the Baseline Killer as a man with dreadlocks. But neighbors of Goudeau told reporters he does not look like the man in the sketch. 
According to the Department of Corrections, Goudeau has convictions of three aggravated assaults in 1989 and armed robbery and kidnapping in 1990. He served 13 years on those convictions before being paroled in 2004, eight years before his sentence was to end. 
According to investigators, the sexual assaults blamed on the Baseline Killer range from fondling to rape. In many cases, victims had conversations with the man before they were attacked. He appeared to have a gun, and often threatened to shoot and kill victims. The Baseline Killer is also thought to wear disguises, strikes in the dark, and generally targets people who are alone. 
! 
j 
! 

Saturday, September 16 
Sho'\Vtime 7:00PM 
Ticket.,· $14. $16. $18 
·-ALSO APPEARhVG-Voted «Best Blues Band" by VVhatzup readers for 6 years in a row! 
Pop ...... Fresh RE,TIEV\T 
Blues -Rock -Originals FEATURING:
ELCO ""Jfu2 J.AC!AhoffoA, 
PERFORMIN<; ARTS CENTER 410 S. lVIAIN ST., ELKHART, IN 
574-293-4469 • 800-294-8223 • www.elcotheatre.com 




NQMA 
dine drink + be stylish 
Seeking energetic Bartender, Line Cook, Dishwasher, Food Runner, Server and Cocktail Server, Bus and Host To be on the ground floor of New Upbeat Asian Fusion Restaurant/Bar In Downtown South Bend. Fax Resume 232-3799 Apply in Person 213 N. Main St. 


Friday, September 8, 2006 page 11
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Senate leaders back Bush legislation despite dissent 
Senators zDant to pass terrorism detainee plan by end of the month despite opposition among some Republicans 

Associated Press Gen. James Walker, staff judge advocate for the Marine Corps. WASHINGTON -Senate lead­"What we do and how we treat 
ers are throwing their weight these individuals can, in the 
behind a White House plan to future, have a direct impact on prosecute terrorism detainees our service men and women despite dissent among some overseas. " Republicans and the military's The president's legislation top lawyers. would authorize the defense 
Majority Leader Bill Frist, R­secretary to convene military 
Tenn., said he  tribunals  to  
wants  to  pass  prosecute ter­ 
the proposal by  rorism suspects  
the end of the  and omit rights  
month and would decide Friday how quickly to pro­ "/ support the administration bill and hope that it's  common in mili­tary and civil courts, such as the defendant's  
ceed on the bill,  what the Senate will  right to access  
indicating a vote could come as  , pass.  all evidence and a ban on  
soon  as  next  coerced testimo­ 
week.  The  Sen. Mitch McConnell  ny.  Bush  has  
momentum placed behind  R-Ky.  said the plan is both fair and  
President Bush's  tough enough to  
plan  by  Frist  ensure danger­ 
sent GOP moder­ ous  terrorists  

ates scrambling to develop an can be brought to justice. alternative that would address Senate leaders also have their concerns. hailed the legislation as neces­
Also sounding alarms on sary and practical, contending Bush's legislation Thursday that terrorists must not be were the Pentagon's top uni­granted rights comparable with formed lawyers. Testifying U.S. citizens or service mem­before a House panel, the ser­bers. vice's judge advocate generals "I support the administration said the plan could violate bill and hope that it's what the treaty obligations and make Senate will pass," said the 
U.S. troops vulnerable. majority whip, Sen. Mitch 
"While we seek that balance" McConnell, R-Ky. of fairness and security, "we But GOP moderates -Sens. also must remember the con­John Warner, John McCain and cept of reciprocity," said Brig. Lindsey Graham -have agreed with the Pentagon lawyers that Bush's plan may go too far. Warner, R-Va.. chairman of the Armed Services Committee, convened closed-door meetings throughout the day Thursday with other panel members and a senior official from the Justice Department in a bid to generate consensus on an alternative proposal. 
Some conservatives indicated they weren't biting. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, a committee member, said he supports the administration's position and did not feel strongly "one way or the other" if a bill received the Armed Services Committee's blessing before reaching the floor. 
"We're racing against the clock" to pass legislation allow­ing the president to proceed, he said. 
Indeed, a leadership aide said Warner, McCain, R-Ariz., and Graham, R-S.C., were given "24 hours to think their position over," indicating that the bill could be routed around the committee and placed directly on the Senate floor. 
The vote would come just as lawmakers are departing for midterm elections and Republicans are fighting to maintain the majority by trum­peting their tough stance on the war on terror. The short time table may also help to steamroll over any opposition mounted by Warner and McCain. 
Whether to insist the system grant a defendant access to all cases, other broad evidence," 
evidence used against him, even Hunter said. 
if it would compromise classi­But the service's top lawyers 
fied material, remained the reiterated their position that 
biggest sticking point. other alternatives must be 
Steven Bradbury, acting assis­explored -or the case tant attorney general. defended dropped. the White House plan in saying "I believe the accused should such cases would be rare. see that evidence," said Maj. 

"These procedures. properly Gen. Scott Black, the Army's administered by the military judge advocate general. judge, would The hearing strike the came a day appropriate bal­"These procedures, after Bush ance between acknowledged ··,
properly administered 
safeguarding for the first time 
our nation's by the military judge, that the CIA had 
secrets and would strike the secret prisons ensuring a fair overseas and
appropriate balance 
trial of the defended the 
accused," between safeguarding practice of 
Bradburv told our nations secrets tough interroga­the House tions to force
and ensuring a fair 
Armed Services terrorists to
trial ofthe accused. " 
Committee. reveal plots to 
Rep. Duncan attack the Hunter, R-Calif., Steven Bradbury United States who heads the and its allies.
acting assistant
House panel and Bush said 14
attorney general 
has sided with detainees would the administra-be transferred tion on detainee out of CIA cus­treatment issues, said at the tody to the military's hearing that any military com­Guantanamo Bay prison. mission established to prose­The announcement, however, cute terrorists must allow the did not signal an end to the con­government to protect intelli­troversial program. State gence sources. Department legal adviser John 
"Some of these acts of com­Bellinger III told reporters plicity in terrorist operations or Thursday that if additional plots are very small pieces -members of the al-Qaida terror the guy that drives the car, the network were captured, "we guy that delivers a document -reserve the right to have those 

' 
and you don't have, in many people questioned by the CIA." ' 
' 
' 
~ 
1 
' 

Friday, September 8, 2006 

page 12 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Christian video game to debut 
'Left Behind: Eternal Forces' console draws on popular book series 
prayer and armed to defend

Associated Press themselves for eventual battle. DENVER -The streets of Players recruit people to bat­New York have never looked so tle evil forces while taking con­barren. trol of buildings for medical An occasional taxi or bus clinics and housing. They can motors down a boulevard as send people into battle but lose people wander aimlessly among points by killing evil soldiers or eerily vacant buildings. Soon, by failing to meet the spiritual black helicopters loom over­needs of the troops. Want to head and armed soldiers close ward off evil? Hit the prayer ranks on the street" below. button. This isn't your run-of-the-mill Every person depicted has a video game: "Left Behind: name and a history, which Eternal Forces" is based on the emphasizes the human cost of best-selling "Left battle, Frichner Behind" book said. series about the "We're not Along the way, apocalypse. But players fmd clues
ashamed ofit. 
it's the apocalypse to Bible myster­
There are
without dismem­ies and other berment or Scriptures in the information. graphic blood­game and we're Christian rock shed, though the groups provide
faithful to those
game has an ele­background ment of violence Scriptures." music. that some ln the single­Christians argue player mode, the
Jeffrey Frichner 
is counter to player battles evil 
president
teachings of the forces. In the 
Left Behind Games
Bible. multiplayer 
The game's cre­ators say they hope to wriggle into the multi­billion-dollar mainstream video game market by offering a real­time strategy option for serious garners. Yet, they believe the faith-based theme is important, too. 
"What we've decided to do is embed our message in a game so that it's not overt but it is in the game," Left Behind Games President Jefl'rey Frichner said. "We're not ashamed of it. There are Scriptures in the game and we're faithful to those Scriptures." 
The overall video game soft­ware market, including con­soles and portables, was $6.1 billion in 2005, based on U.S. sales, according to The NPD Group research company in Port Washington, N.Y. It does not track sales for Christian video games, which is a tiny niche. 
Analyst Michael Pachter, who follows the industry for Wedbush Morgan Securities Inc., has played "Eternal Forces" and said it probably will bn well-received. 
He estimated it would sell between 250,000 and 1 million units, likely far more than any other Christian video game, because of its high quality. 
"They did a nice job," Pachter said. "In order for the game to hit the higher end of that range, I think they have to attract mainstream consumers who just want to play the game because it is a good game. 
"The question is, will the game be perceived as too preachy for the mainstream and I just don't know. We'll see." 
Set in New York, the game begins with smoldering land­scapes, the eerie streets and wandering nonbelievers and evildoers. The object is to con­vert nonbelievers and ultimately prevent evil forces from taking over the world. 
Left Behind marketing man­ager Greg Bauman won't be specific about how to achieve victory because the game won't be officially released until later this year; however, a demo of the game available free of charge on the company's Web site provides some clues. 
Players, as commanders of the forces of good, need to make sure their people are housed and f('d, nurtured with 
mode, players 
may choose to represent evil or good. Garners also can play each other online. 
The PC-only game cost between $3 million and $5 mil­lion to produce. It will sell for $49.99. 
The current market for Christian video games is essen­tially nonexistent, Pachter said, but there is opportunity given the growing popularity of Christian products and the fact parents want nonviolent fare for their children. 
"Eternal Forces" is the first etrort from Left Behind Games Inc. of Murrieta, Calif., which has a license to develop games based on the "Left Behind" nov­els by Jerry B. Jenkins and Tim LaHaye that have sold more than 63 million copies. 
The company's mission is to produce products that promote faith-based values but also appeal to the general popula­tion. The books and the game are built around those left on Earth after millions of Christian believers ascend to heaven dur­ing the Rapture as defined in Christian theology. 
Since it was previewed in May at the Electronic Entertainment Expo in Los Angeles, "Eternal Forces" has drawn opposition on Internet sites, in some news­papers and on television from those who contend the violence goes against the Bible. 
"It's reprehensible," said Florida attorney Jack Thompson, a critic of video game violence. "They're basi­cally using the phrase ­Christian game -to disarm parents into thinking it's going to be OK for our kids." 
Left Behind Games co-founder Troy Lyndon has posted a state­ment on the company's Web site calling the game a classic battle of good and evil. Frichner said it depicts choices people must make when faced with threats. 
"Do we just lay down and allow aggressors to kill us, or maim us or pillage us?" Frichner said. "I think most Americans would answer no. We defend ourselves. To remain faithful to the 'Left Behind' series, we couldn't make a game that didn't have that ele­ment in it." 
Ralph Bagley, chief executive officer of video game maker N'Ughtning Software Dev-elop­ment, believes there is a market for Christian video games wait­ing to be tapped, particularly for technically accurate prod­ucts such as "Eternal Forces." 

He's been in the business since 1999, when Christian game developers consisted of a handful of people who made a video game v.ith about $10,000 while top game developers were spending $2 million to $3 mil­lion. 
"We couldn't stand up to it," Bagley said. 
He invested about $800,000 in the design and production of "Catechumen," a nonviolent adventure game that has sold 80,000 copies -a top seller in the Christian video market. 
Bagley's other game, "Ominous Horizons, a Paladin's Calling," is set in Germany in the 1400s when Satan steals the first printed Bible and hides pieces of it throughout the world. The player solves puzzles devised by ancient societies to track down the missing pieces. Bagley spent about $1.2 million to develop it. 
He predicted demand for Christian video products would continue to grow. 
"Even the youth pastor that runs the youth group, when he comes home and wants to play a game he really doesn't want another Bible lesson thrown at him," said Bagley, who is also a spokesman for the Christian Game Developers Foundation. "He just wants to play a game." 
Judge halts free Bible program in Mo. school 
Official says giveaway violates the Constitution 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -A federal judge ordered a small-town school to suspend a program that gives free Bibles to students, saying it improperly promotes Christia­nity. 
U.S. District Court Judge Catherine Perry also scolded school officials for continuing 
"The defendants were repeat­edly told that their actions vio­lated the Constitution, but they chose not to heed those cau­tions," Perry wrote in the pre­liminary injunction issued Wednesday. 
A final ruling is not expected for months. 
Eastern Missouri ACLU legal 
director Anthony 
Rothert said the 
the program injunction was
"The defendants were
after warnings "a victory for 
that it violated repeatedly told that parents who 
the Constitut­their actions violated want to direct ion. the religious
the Constitution, but
South Iron upbringing of 
Elementary in they chose not to heed their children 
Annapolis, a those cautions. " without interfer­town of 300 in ence from public southeastern schools."
Catherine Perry 
Missouri, has Erik Stanley ­
quietly allowed U.S. District Court Judge an attorney for 
Gideons Intern­ational to hand out Bibles to fifth-graders for years. After concerns were raised last year, the then-super­intendent consulted with the district's attorneys and insur­ance company and recommend­ed that the handouts stop, but the school board voted to con­tinue them. 
Acting on behalf of two sets of parents from the district, the American Civil Liberties Union sued in February in federal court in St. Louis. 
Liberty Counsel, 
part of Jerry Falwell's Liberty University in Lynchburg, Va., which repre­sented the school district ­called the ruling unconstitution­al and said it would continue to fight the case. 
Gideons, based in Nashville, Tenn., distributes more than 63 million pocket-sized Bibles each year in hotels, prisons, hospitals and schools worldwide, accord­ing to the organization's Web site. A spokesman for the organ­ization declined to comment. 


$27.95 hardcover 
EcHOES OF 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
$27.95 hardcover 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
THli GRM'ff.ST Gt.Mf.S, Pt.Antts. CuA<:Hr$ ANU TEAMS IN nl£ GLORIOUS TRADIOON Of FKlH11N<l lRJSII FtlO'TIIALL 
Available at: 
$24.95 hardcover 


~ NoTRrDAM~ 

BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (S74) 631-6316 •www.nd{atalog.com 


Friday, September 8, 2006 page 13
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Marine disappearance staged 
Police: Friend was trying to keep Colo. man from returning to service 
Associated Press 
The sheriff's department and Lt. Brendan Hering, was on 
search and rescue teams called leave in Colorado from 
DENVER -Authorities who off their search after five days, Barksdale Air Force Base, La., spent five days searching for a saying they were confident said a man who answered a Marine after a friend reported Hering had left the area. call at Brendan Hering's unit. him lost in a hiking accident "Essentially (Powers) was Hering's family has said they have arrested the friend and trying to keep (Hering) from do not believe he is trying to said Thursday they believe the having to return to service as a avoid returning to the Marines. 
disappearance was staged, so Marine," West said. "That's "He doesn't run from his 
the serviceman could avoid Powers' version. Powers has problems," Brendan Hering returning to duty. lied to us repeatedly._ so we told the Daily Camera in Steve Powers, 20, of Boulder, take what he says with a grain Boulder for a story Wednesday. was arrested late Wednesday of salt." "He doesn't have any problems 
for investigation of a misde­West said state authorities with the military." meanor charge of false report­were comparing DNA from Brendan Hering said that ing, Sheriff's human blood about 10 years ago, Lance Cmdr. Phil West found at the Hering hit his head and tem­
said. In a state-scene where porarily lost his vision and ment, he added Hering was speech. A few days later, he 
..He doesn't run
that the Marine, reported to have suffered some short-term Lance Hering, from his problems. ,, fallen while rock memory loss. He said his could face the climbing to sam­brother could be suffering a same charge, pies from Hering similar injury.
Lt. Brendan Hering 
and that the and Powers. Marine officials have told
brother
sheriff's depart­Investigators sheriff's officials that Hering ment planned to have some leads was classified as unauthorized seek restitution into Hering's absent because he left before for the thou-whereabouts but official approval of his request sands of dollars spent on the West declined to elaborate. for leave, West said. search. A call to Hering's parents in The Pentagon has said sim­
Authorities are still trying to Boulder and messages left with ple desertion has been find Hering, 21, who returned officials at the Pentagon and decreasing in the military in from Iraq in July and was due Camp Pendleton were not recent years -about 2,500 back at Camp Pendleton, Calif., immediately returned. There troops last year didn't show up this month. was no telephone listing for for work, down from almost 
Powers had reported that Powers, who was released 5,000 in 2001. Hering fell Aug. 29 while the shortly after his arrest. But groups that run the GI two were hiking and injured Nobody answered a knock on Rights Hotline, which helps his head, losing consciousness the front door of the Hering servicemembers interested in in the rugged Eldorado Canyon home, in a quiet south Boulder getting out of their required State Park west of Boulder. neighborhood, where two elec­service, have reported receiv­Powers said he went for help tric candles were burning in ing more than 36,000 calls this the next morning, but when he the windows. year, up from fewer than 1,000 returned, Hering had vanished. Hering's brother, Air Force in 2001. 
Experience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some ofthe most pressing issues ofour times. 
"More Than a Movie? Assessing 
~ 9/9-Penn State "More Than a Movie? Assessing TheDa Vind Code"
The Da Vinci Code" 
(101 DeBartolo Hall) James Collins, Professor ofFilm, Tefez,ision, and Theatre Mary Rose D'Angelo, Associate Professor oflheology
james Collins 
Charles Barber, Associate Professor ofArt, Art History, and Design
Professor ofFilm, Television, and Theatre 
~ 9/16-Michigan '(1l1e Impact ofthe Dead Sea Scrolls on Our Bible" 
Mary Rose D'Angelo Eugene Ulrich, Rev. fohn A. O'Brien Professor of Theology Associate Professor ofTheology 
~ 9/30-Purdue "Successful Aging" Cindy Bergeman, Chair and Professor ofPsychology
Charles Barber Associate Professor ofArt, Art History, and Design ~ 10/7 -Stanford '(The Bone Collector" Susan Sheridan, Associate Professor ofAnthropology 
12:00 Noon ~ 10/21-UCLA "Completing the Constitution: 1he 14th Amendment" ~ Michael Zuckert, Nancy Reeves Dreu.:"< Professor ofPolitical Science
Saturday, September 9 
~ 11/4-North Carolina "The Role ofReligion in Peacebuilding" "More Than a Movie? Assessing 7he Da Vinci Code"wilJ R. Scott Appleby, Professor ofHistory, fohn M. Regan Jr. Director ofthe joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies
offer insights into the cinematic quality ofthe blockbuster John Paul Lederach, Professional Specialist, Kroc Institute
film, the historical relationship between Jesus and Mary 
A. Rashied Omar, Assistant Professional Specialist, Ktoc Institute
Magdalene, and the theological role ofthe art depicted 
in the movie. ~ 11/18-Army "Seeds ofChange" AMusical Performance Georgine Resick, Professor ofMusic John Blacklow, Assistant Professor ofMusic
This panel presentation will include Jim Collins, professor of film, who specializes in film and television theory, 
3-1/2 hours before kickoffin the Annenberg Auditorium, film history, and popular culture; Mary Rose D'Angelo, Snite Museum ofArt (unless otherwise noted). associate professor of theology, who studies early For more information, visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu Christianity and the role ofwomen; and Charles Barber, associate professor of art history, whose areas ofspecialty 
UNIVERSITY OF

include early Christian and Byzantine an. 

NOTRE DAME 

Architects unveil plans for more WTC towers 
Associated Press while "New York, New York" 
played in the background. 
NEW YORK -Architects Foster designed the tallest of presented striking new visions the three buildings -at 1,254 for the World Trade Center site feet, taller than anything in Thursday with designs for the city except the Empire three more towers -including State Building. It appears to a diamond-shaped skyscraper connect four narrow towers, -that would replace the twin topped by four shining dia­towers with some of the city's monds that would be lit at tallest buildings overlooking a night. Sept. 11 memorial. Foster, who designed the 

The designs unveiled Hearst Tower in Manhattan I' Thursday joined plans for the and used diamond patterns in 1,776-foot-tall Freedom Tower his original "kissing towers" ~ skyscraper, an 8-acre memori­proposal for the trade center al surrounding the spots where site, called the diamonds a the twin towers stood and a "beacon" that would direct winged glass-and-steel transit viewers down towards the hub. memorial from any angle in 
The three new towers would the city. descend in height from the "Wherever you are ... and iconic Freedom Tower in a spi­you look at this tower, it will ral around the memorial, tell you where the memorial which sets twin reflecting park is," he said. · pools above the spots where Foster's tower would have the towers stood in a tree­four wider floors for financial filled plaza. trading, a 65-foot-high lobby 
"These are some of the most and retail space above and stunning buildings you will see below ground. None of the anywhere in the world," Gov. buildings is planned to have George Pataki said. "It does storefronts or retail space that respect the sanctity of this directly face the memorial. entire site." Rogers proposed a slender 
Architects Norman Foster 71-story tower with crisscross­and Richard Rogers, both of ing columns up and down its Britain, and Fumihiko Maki, of sides, topped by 100-foot Japan, presented models of the spires at all four corners. He towers at a news conference at called it "a very slim tower, developer Larry Silverstein's clearly structured, clearly legi­rebuilt 7 World Trade Center. ble" and said he wanted to A film showed the buildings' create an effect of reaching models from different angles into the sky. 
Fall 2006 Schedule 


Friday, September 8, 2006 

page 14 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 







TOMMY MAKE 



AND 

KENNEDY'S KITCHEN 
THE "BARD OF ARMAGH" RETURNS TO NOTRE DAME FOR A NIGHT OF IRISH MUSIC JOINED BY SOUTH BEND'S KENNEDY'S KITCHEN 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15 at 8:30 PM LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL TICKETS: $30 I $25 FACULTY, STAFF, AND SENIORS $15 ALL STUDENTS 
BROWNING 

CINEMA 
Danton (1983) Nanovic Film Series Directed by Andrzej Wajda French language with English subtitles Not Rated, 143 minutes Thu, Sept 7 at 7 and 1 0 pm 
Iron Island (2006) Directed by Mohammad Rasoulof Not Rated, 90 minutes Persian language with English subtitles Fri, Sept 8 at 7 and 1 0 pm 
FILM LINE: 631-FILM 
Friday, September 8, 2006 
I 
I
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 15 
' 
Celebutante Paris Hilton arrested for DUI in Los Angeles 
Driving incident a likely career boost for the pop culture icon and perennial party girl, veteran publicists say 
Associated Press Hours after her release, Hilton defended herself to LOS ANGELES -For most 
radio host Ryan Seacrest dur­
celebrities, getting smacked ing his Thursday morning
with a DUI is an instant image show on local station KIIS-FM. 
crisis. For Paris Hilton, it could "It was nothing," said Hilton, 
be a career boost. 25. 
"Paris Hilton being arrested The singer, actress, handbag just makes her more famous," designer and heiress to the said veteran publicist Michael Hilton hotel-chain fortune said Levine. "She has devoted her she was "starving because I entire adult life to appearing had not ate all day" and possi­to be the princess of parties." bly "speeding a little bit" in 
Hilton's publicist, Elliot her Mercedes-Benz SLR on her Mintz, confirmed the star's fes­way to grab a bite. tive nature Thursday: "She's 
"I was just really hungry and been known to have a drink or I wanted to have an In-N-Out two." 
burger," said the one-time Hilton was arrested by Los pitchwoman for Carl's Jr. Angeles police officers in Hilton, who made her 
Hollywood early Thursday on singing debut last week with suspicion of the release of her driving under eponymous CD, the influe.nce. said she spent
../ was just really
During the Wednesday filming arrest she was hungry and I a music video and briefly· hand­
wanted to have an having dinner with cuffed. Hilton her sister, Nicky,
In-N-Out burger.,, 
was booked at and some friends 
L A P D ' s before heading to Hollywood sta­Paris Hilton a charity event tion at 1:43 a.m. hotel heiress sponsored by and reI eased rocker Dave shortly after-Navarro. ward, said Nick Velasquez, a Hilton said she had "one spokesman for the city attor­margarita" at the event. ney's office. Just last month, she told the 
This is Hilton's first drunken­Los Angeles Times that she 
driving arrest, Mintz said, "doesn't like the taste of alco­adding that he doesn't expect hol." the incident to hurt her image. "It grosses me out," she said. 
"The people who enjoy Paris Hilton told Seacrest that as a comedian or actress on police stopped her for speed­TV or as a singer on her CD , a ing. An LAPD spokeswoman woman who seems to have said Hilton was driving errati­
captured the imagination of so cally. 
many people, I don't know if "Officers observed the vehi­this is going to have any cle driving in an erratic man­impact on them one way or ner so they pulled-the car another," he said. "But, of over," officer Marj an Moba­
course, she regrets what took sser said Thursday. place." Hilton's blood-alcohol level 

was .08 percent -the mini­
mum to warrant an arrest, 
Mintz said. 
According to a national 
research study, a 137-pound 
woman would need to con­
sume three alcoholic drinks in 
one hour on an empty stomach 
to reach a .08 blood-alcohol 
level. The 5-foot-8 and fash­
ionably slender Hilton likely 
weighs much less than 137 
pounds. 
She described the arresting 
officers as "really nice." 
"There was a lot of paparazzi around so I think they were trying to make a statement," she told Seacrest. "Everything I do is blown out of proportion and it really hurts my feelings." 
Hilton is expected to be arraigned Sept. 28, said Velasquez of the city attorney's office. Penalties for a first drunken-driving offense typi­cally include a fine, probation, an alcohol-rehabilitation pro­gram, license suspension and "other DUI-related conditions" such as community service, he said. 
LAPD officials said they will not release Hilton's arrest report or her mug shot. 
The maximum penalty for a first misdemeanor DUI offense is a $1,000 fine and six months in jail. 
This isn't the first legal prob­lem for the blonde heiress. 
In February, a Superior Court judge ordered Hilton to stay away from event producer Brian Quintana after he claimed she shoved him on at least three occasions and bad­mouthed him. 
A month earlier, actress and diamond heiress Zeta Graff filed a multimillion dollar law-
Hilton was just a pretty party girl and everyday heiress until
Office of International Studies 
a sex-tape she made with an
152 Hurley Building 

ex-boyfriend surfaced in late 
T: 631-5882 
2003. That made her a cyber­space novelty and instant tabloid favorite. Hilton's reality TV series "The Simple Life" debuted shortly afterward. 
In 2004, Hilton released her book, "Confessions of an Heiress: A Tongue-in-Chic Peek Behind the Pose." She 



INNSBRUCK 
Central European Studies Program 
2007-2008 Academic Year 
Please Join Prof. Hannelore Weber and returnees of the program Information Session 
Tuesday, Sept. 12, 2006 118 DEBARTOLO 5:00PM 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/~intlstud Questions?-\\'eber.l5(tilnd.edu Application Deadline: November 15, 2006 
:=-.~ 


suit against Hilton claiming that Hilton spewed "vicious lies" to the New York Post about an altercation the two had in a London nightclub. 
In November, Hilton was a passenger in a silver Bentley that a companion drove into the back of a large commercial truck, scratching the hood of the car. The mishap was cap­tured on videotape. Cameras were also rolling when Hilton's Range Rover backed into a car in a parking garage in June. 


AP 

The not-so-simple life: Hilton was arrested for DUI early Thursday after failing a sobriety test. Her blood-alcohol level was .08 percent. 
,. 
i' 
~ 
I 
1 
appeared in episodes of televi­sion's "The O.C." and "Veronica Mars" and had a role in the 2005 horror flick "House of Wax." 
Hilton released a perfume bearing her name in 2004. Earlier this year, Hilton 
unveiled her cell-phone video game, "Diamondquest." She'll follow that with a line of Paris Hilton purses and cosmetics. 
Hilton's string of boyfriends has also kept her in the news. She was engaged for several months to Greek shipping heir Paris Latsis before dating another Greek shipping heir, Stavros Niarchos IJI. She has also been linked to former University of Southern California football star Matt Leinart, who recently signed with the NFL's Arizona Cardinals. 
Recently, Hilton announced she had taken a vow of sexual abstinence: 



p 
THE OBSERVER 
page 16 
Friday, September 8, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Gilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Maddie Ha~na Jim Kirihara 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kare Antonacci 
Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Bri<l n Doxtader 

SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 

WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(57 4) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither insriturion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. letters to the Editor must be signed and must include comacr information. 
Quertiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th. Ob.<rve< (USPS S99 2--4000) is published M<mdar through Friday e<c<pt during eum ~nd v:tCi1tion_ pt"£inds. A su~ption ro The OhM:-rv('r is $100 for one aademic 
year; $55 for one semaacr.  
The Obs<t""l<r is published at:  POSTMASTER  
024 South Dining Hall  &nd address C()rf«dons to:  
Notre Dame. IN 46556-{)779  The Ob.er.cr  
P(riod.iC.ll pc.~age pa,id at Nou-e O.amc  P.O. Box 779  
and Jdditioru.! m.Uiing offkc:s.  021 S<>uth Dining Hall  
Notr<: Dame, IN 46556-0779  

Tbt Ohs.ctvc:r is a member vfth( Asstxiarcd Pr~. All reproduction rigltts are 
r~rvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Amanda Michaels Chris Khorey 
Joe Piarulli Fran Tolan Jenny Hames Ken Fowler Viewpoint Kate Gales 
Alyssa Deirdre Krasula Brauweiler Scene Graphics Marty Schroeder Madeline Nies 
New 'TC' not ideal 
From Rally in the Alley to Kegs and Eggs, the mention of Turtle walking alone through South Bend -which, as recent reports of Creek Apartments conjures memories of parties, drinking and ofT-campus crimes and assault<> reveal, isn't the safest place for a good times -memories typically shared only by today's juniors 2 a.m. stroll. and seniors. There is almost no opportunity to get lost, little chance of injury 
During the past two years an intensified police crackdown on and even less chance of violence when walking the lighted path the beer-soaked "TC" has sent some students scurrying further from the library to Bulla Hoad. There are always substantial ­into South Bend for the next party scene. Last Friday's police bust and occasionally life threatening -cost<> associated with under-of 88 college students at Turtle Creek wa.'.; rightfully age drinking, including poor decisions, personal conducted by law enforcement oflicials. Those who Th injury, police citations and drunk driving. Student<>
OBserver 
were arrested or received tickets broke the law and should weigh these costs every weekend. got caught for it. But so should police. The arrests made Friday
Editorial
It's inevitable, however, that some students come could have been avoided if the underage students 
to college Sf~eldng more than a degree from one of the nation's top universities and will choose to party regardless of the illegality of the situation. Busts like Friday's will set an exam­ple but are unlikely to end the urge to drink underage. And as the end of the Turtle Creek era seems increasingly imminent -if it hasn't already arrived-student<> will look for alternative destina­tions. 
Instead of making the short walk home from Turtle Creek late at night, many will inevitably party farther away from campus, increasing the risk of someone driving home after drinking or 
considered the consequences of their actions. However, one can't help but speculate what would have happened had the police chosen to break up the party rather than spend three hours issuing nearly 100 citations. 
Yes, the party could have continued somewhere else. But that's what's likely to happen anyway. A<> Turtle Creek becomes increas­ingly notorious for undercover officers and spontaneous raids, party-seeking student<> will go farther away from Notre Dame ­farther away from the relatively safe haven of campus out<>kirts and into a potentially more dangerous search for the next TC. 

Ignoring the Penn. Guard in Iraq 
Somewhere in Indiana grieves an American family, still mourning the loss of a loved one in Iraq who served in the Guard last year. He is also missed by close comrades who include my good friend, a Pennsylvania guardsman from my hometown. The unpleasant story of this loss is one ulti­mately caused by a command failure within the Pentagon. 
According to my friend, it is but one of many deadly com­mand policy miscues in Iraq. The Pennsylvania guardsman recalls that last year the Indiana youth died from a wound under his arm, a vulnerable exposed area between the front and rear armor issued to him upon arrival in Iraq. This death was unnecessary, a result of a negligently chaotic U.S. military system that refused to issue any of its readily available side armor to our soldiers ... that is, until this death. 
My hometown of Canonsburg, Pa., is a suburban community 20 miles southwest of Pittsburgh. Primarily a coal and steel town in the early 1900s, it was the final destination for various immigrant groups who settled in the United States. Today it main­tains many ethnic enclaves as second and third generation Americans con­tinue to love and serve America in the family traditions of their forefathers. Neighborhoods are friendly, patriotic and as broad-minded as any true melting pot society. 
During the July Fourth holiday, I ventured home for the largest parade in Western Pennsylvania and activi­ties that have been advertised as "the finest in the nation." Our local guardsmen and women who recently returned from Iraq were prominently honored. The day's political feature included both U.S. Senate candidates 

Gary J. Caruso 

Capitol Comments 
OBSERVER POLL What is the biggest deterrent to living 


off campus? 
A. Chores/Bills 
B. Distance/commute 
C. Crime 
-incumbent Republican Rick Santorum and challenger Democrat Bob Casey. 
I questioned my friend who had served an 18-month tour in Iraq with the guard. His firsthand account of conditions on the ground affecting our troops is a tale of travesty that would chill both supporters and dissenters of the war. His hollow stare reached well beyond me as he recalled the command's senseless refusal to ini­tially issue side armor to him and his fellow guardsmen. He said ironically, "And to think people here thought Cher was crazy for buying armor for us." 
Most guardsmen support the war effort as one of the supply and main­tenance personnel. Initially, my friend obtained parts for his vehicular repairs by crossing the river for assis­tance from the Marines at their ware­house. Unfortunately, when the six­month rotation sent Marines who refused to assist the Guard, my friend resorted to buying parts on the black market. llis frustrations may be typi­cal of any war zone, yet in our mod­ern, technologically advanced age, the command at the Pentagon should know better and foster cooperation between service branches. My guards­man friend said, "It was as though we were on different sides of the war." 
Our military spends unthinkable amounts to transport the exact vehi­cles with which the troops initially trained in the United States. Barring drastic equipment differences, it seems wasteful to transport each vehicle according to assignment rather than deploy them from a cen­tral overseas facility on a first-come, first-serve basis. We learned that as early as World War II when General Patton's success only relied upon tanks, not the exact tanks his troops trained with in North America. If Guard equipment today is inferior to the regular army's, then the United States has no hope of waging an effective war effort. 
My friend also tells how he survived 
1 SubmitaLetter. to the Editor at ' 
•www.ndsmcobserver.com · 
his 18-month ordeal by using his wits and learning from others. Yet when the Marines replaced his unit, they refused the guardsmen's attempts to debrief and advise those Marines on what we at home might call "best practices." The Marines -being Marines -thought of themselves as full-time warriors prepared for any situation and ignored the "part-time" guard. Ten Marines were killed dur­ing their first two days in Iraq. 
In July, the headlines reported on two captured1A:werican soldiers who were subsequently tortured and killed. My friend agonizingly recited the proper technique for establishing a security checkpoint with a tank at the side, machine gun perched above and initial barricade 200 meters away. Sadly, he concluded, they were among the dozens he had seen who did not follow procedures. 
Each time our military torture, rape or murder, our torch of freedom dims. Each time our troops operate outside their training norms, they lose com­rades and pierce the souls of loved ones back home. Yet for each unchar­acteristic military moment, the finger of blame points to the highest levels of command within the services. 
If we have no seamless military among our various services, the gen­erals are at fault. If we have such a lack of discipline that soldiers will conspire with each other to rape and kill civilian Iraqis, it is our generals' failures. Sadly, until accountability begins at the top, the Pennsylvania guard will remain ignored in Iraq. It is a deadly tragedy that no American family should ever endure. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a politcal strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol. com 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Gentlemen, it is better to have died as a small boy than to fumble this football." 
John Heisman football coach 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Down with the Klan and down with Israel 
James Dechant makes a crucial dain about the lack of civilization that from anti-colonial movements. I have who could keep the Arabs in check. point in his Sept. 7 column "Terrorism characterizes white society and you marched against neo-Nazis who were Now it continues as the front line of can be born at home" -groups like don't see academics holding confer­trampling on Israeli flags, but I never­an American Empire that clings to the Ku Klux Klan (KKK), who recently ences on how Christianity breeds ter­theless maintain a principled opposi­this legacy by talking instead of marched in Gettysburg, are home­ror and is incompatible with democra­tion to Zionism. Zionism is that ideol­advanced and backwards cultures. grown American terrorist organiza­cy and modernity. And yet while the ogy which attempts to equate the The result is Jim-Crow-style segrega­tions. While there is such a focus on Klan marches, pundits continue to identity and heritage of the Jewish tion across Palestine, over 50 years of terrorism abroad, American official babble about how to control the Arab people with a defense of the state and ethnic cleaning and mass graves in I society is unwilling to admit that there and Muslim savages. ruling class of Israel. But Zionism is Southern Lebanon. These should 
,.1 I 
are racial terrorists springing right I agree with Dechant that the Klan not the same thing as Jewish identity; make the Zionist movement indefensi­
~ 
out of the belly of American civiliza­and groups like them are not merely there are anti-Zionist Jews as well as ble in the eyes of any anti-racist. I 
I
tion. fringe elements that can be easily non-Jewish, even anti-Semitic The founding of a true democracy 'I 
I
,,
I would take this point further -we ignored. They must be vigorously con­Zionists. will require anti-racists who can 
see a deep-seated white supremacy in fronted by everyday people. While we Zionism has its own white suprema­march against the KKK and the Nco­this country far larger than the Klan welcome and defend all immigrants, cy complex; it conceives of Israel as Nazis under banners reading "Down when we observe the differences we must say that it is these white the vanguard of Western civilization with White Supremacy! Down with between how white and non-white racial terrorists who have no right to in a sea of Arab barbarism (ironic Anti-Semitism! Down with the state of "terrorism" are handled by our rulers. be citizens of the multiracial, anti­considering that it was the white Israel! Down with the American When fascist groups organize to lynch racist and democratic polities we wish supremacy of Europe that had earlier Empire!" Each of these, in its own people of color, Jews and queer folks, to call home. targeted the Jewish people for way, is an ugly face of white suprema­you don't see the publication of hun­Dechant is right about the fact that destruction). The Zionist state of cy today and each must be dismantled 
dreds of shoddy books talking about the Klan and Neo-Nazi groups often Israel was born as a settler state from below. 
the degradation of "the White mind," talk about the "destruction of the under the auspices of a British colo­you don't see a massive FBI dragnet 'Zionist state' of Israel." But defend­nialism that explicitly mapped the Matthew Hamilton that racially profiles white people ing everyday Jewish folks from the world according to advanced and graduate student because they might be Klansmen, you Klan is not the same thing as defend­backwards races, placing Jewish lead­off-campus don't see polite people talking in dis-ing the state and ruling class of Israel ers as junior partners in whiteness Sepr. 7 
U-WIRE 
When the Fruity Pebbles began to take hold..: 
In 1954, Aldous Huxley opened the "doors of perception," penning a book 
of the same name about a psychedelic mescaline trip. 
Today, I'm not just going to open those doors. No, I'm going to kick them 
down and saunter around like I own the place, rearranging the silverware 
partitions according to my own spoon-centric sensibility. 
But I'm not going to use mescaline, because now we've Grant 
got stores chock-full of legal alternatives. Reichert 
What will it be? Well, I had a cough, and I was on my way to the store to get some cough syrup, and then it hit Kansas State me like a bolt of perception-widening cough syrup-I University would eat a whole box of Fruity Pebbles in one sitting. Kansas State 
The doors will be crushed to dust, not unlike Rosie Collegian O'Donnell's original pair of ankle bones. 
It will be me versus the Pebbles; only one will emerge victorious. Either me, glutted on the entrails of this flamboyantly colored box, or the box itself, engorged with human flesh, stalking down the streets like some prehistoric monstrosity. 
So look at this not only as a scientific document, as an experiment in per­ception, but as a Himalaya-scaling, Arctic-exploring testament to the will of man. 
1:00. In preparation, I gird my loins for battle -which, in this case, involves ungirding my loins. Pants are useful in times of relative security, but must be cast ofT when a person enters the fruity tango of death with a bowl of Pebbles. 
1:05. I pour the first bowl. It spews out of the box like some hideous alien vomit, the garishly clashing colors intermingling freely. The blue is a sickly blue, a Smurf-jaundice blue, a blue I hope never to see again. , 
The pink flakes resemble the debris from a leper's vigorous hand-rubbing. The other colors are such that Crayola only imagines in bouts of deepest despair. I will not dwell on them, for there lies madness. 
. 1:07. I take the first hit. The flakes burn all the way down, lacerating flesh wherever they fall, like Johnny Ulcer-Seed making a trek down my esopha­gus. 
The box proclaims "A Good Source of Fiber," which may be true, if one eats the box itself. But, as it is, the contents of the box are a good source of -in no particular order -suffering, sterility and early death. 
The sugar sends me into shock. I try to amble to the fridge to grab some­thing of nutritional value -anything-celery, ketchup, heck, even Cheez Whiz, that curdled milk straight from Satan's festering nipple. ~ 
I don't make it; I stumble on my numb, blackened diabetic hooves and fall to the floor. Each excruciating second passes like a razor-sharpened kidney stone through the urinary tract of Father Time. 
3:00. My physical symptoms dissolve -an existential nausea descends. The Pebbles have taken effect. I see myself on the floor; the barest fact of existence engulfs me. I oscillate freely between object and subject. 
I develop strong opinions about pretentious French philosophers I've never read. I suddenly see the logic behind the Vagina Monologues and begin composing freeform slam poetry against the patriarchy. 
I have lost to the box. I am destroyed, reduced to pebbles. Fruity, fruity pebbles. 
This column originally appeared in the Sept. 7 edition ofthe Kansas State Collegian. the daily publication at Kansas State University. 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
I gotta have my Pops 
Since the issue first arose I have been keeping my peace about this subject for the better part of a month. I dislike the idea of writing in to The Observer, because it seems like most people who write letters in the Viewpoint do not really know what they are talking q.bout and mostly just like to hear themselves talk. So I have been patiently waiting'"in hopes of someone else bearing the load and writing the letter that has been so desperately needed, but day after day there is nothing but letters complaining about living wage, Middle Easterners and other things that most peo­ple don't care about. I cannot let this atrocity go on any longer; I must bring this offense to light. 
There are no more Corn Pops in North Dining Hall. I first noticed one morning after I was going for my usual bowl of Corn Pops after I finished my three Eli's Breakfast Sandwiches. I love Corn Pops, so I was obviously disappointed, but I sim­ply wrote it off as a possible mistake. Maybe someone had accidentally ordered Kix instead of Corn Pops this week. However, as I continued to search for my Pops for the next couple of weeks, I slowly came to the realization that this was much bigger than just the simple mistake of confusing the similarly colored Kix for Corn Pops. 
Whether I am just grabbing a quick bowl for breakfast or stuffing a ziplock bag full for a future late night snack, Corn Pops is the perfect cereal. Its 14 grams of sugar per serving fills the milk with a warm sweetness, yet each bite remains sur­prisingly crisp. Not only is it flavorful and crunchy but it also contains 11 essential vitamins and minerals, making this popped-up corn cereal the best in the business. Please bring back my Pops. 
Tom Martin Junior Class Chancellor President ofSiegfried Hall Sept. 6 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Friday, September 8, 2006 

page 18 
CONCERT SPOTLIGHT 

Umphrey's unique rock back in South Bend 


By MADDIE HANNA 
Scene Writer 
With first-home-game hype luring tens of thousands to Notre Dame this week­end, it's easy to label Umphrey's McGee's concert tonight in South Bend a local band's well-timed homecoming. 
Which it is, of course, since the jam­prog rock band -two of its six members were raised in the Michiana area and 
t . 
four are Notre. Dame gra~,s -., got its start in late 1997 and was soon playing gigs on and off campus. 
But it's more than that. This isn't the Umphrey's of 1998, or even the Umphrey's ·of 2004. Like its music, the band is constantly evolving. 
"I think a lot of it is choosing our spots and being more dynamic," keyboardist and vocalist Joel Cummins said. "Our live show has a tendency to be a fun party vibe -and it's cool, we're into that. But we want to develop our person­alities." 
Tonight's Umphrey's is a band coming off its third -and strongest -studio effort, the 2006 "Safety in Numbers." In August, the album hit No. 186 on Billboard's Top 200 -not exactly com­mon for groups in the jam band vein, who draw the vast majority of their sup­port from live show devotees. 
Tonight's Umphrey's is a band pro­pelled by a recent wave of critical acclaim. Since appearing in Rolling Stone's 2004 Hot Issue, the sextet has won raves for both "Safety in Numbers" and its groove-charged shows, where improv is second nature. ("If somebody's hot and really taking it, [we] let them stretch out a bit," Cummins explained.) 
Tonight's Umphrey's, however, is also a band still coming to terms with the death of a close friend. 
Brian Schultz, a 1998 Notre Dame graduate, was leaving Umphrey's New Year's Eve 2004 concert when a drunk driver struck his cab. 
Schultz, Cummins said, was "some­body whose presence makes you want to be a: better person. '1 The accAdent was a "thoughtless tragedy .. no one expected to happen. 
"But it did, and life goes on." 
For Umphrey's, life took shape in "Safety in Numbers." The album has a noticeably more serious tone than 2002's "Local Band Does O.K." or 2004's "Anchor Drops." 
"It's definitely a very personal, time capsule sort of thing," Cummins said. "It felt right to make an album like this." 
Cummins was the driving force behind "Words," a richly retrospective song with lines like "Your words occur to me some­times/line the reasons why we're here." 
"We try to not let the emotion over­whelm us" on stage, Cummins said. "I obviously have to keep it together when I'm up there playing. It's definitely chal­lenging.... This guy was probably my best friend outside of the band." 
Best friend outside the band ­because inside the band, they're best friends too. Cummins met then-drummer Mike Mirro, guitarist and vocalist Brendan Bayliss (son of Irish men's ten­nis coach Bobby Bayliss) and bassist Ryan Stasik when they were undergrads at Notre Dame. 
The four all had different bands, Cummins said, but found each other rel­atively quickly, thanks to the less-than­vibrant Notre Dame music scene. 
"It's not too cool to play music at Notre Dame, you know?" Cummins said. "It's better to play sports." 
After a series of late night jam sessions at Cummins' apartment in College Park, the guys decided to give it a shot. The fir~t gig was at f9rmer student bar Bridget McGuire's on Jan. 21, 1998­which, coincidentally, got busted that weekend, Cummins said. 
"That Saturday night, we were down at Lafayette Square and saw people just running," he laughed. 
As word of mouth spread, Umphrey's began playing shows at the Stepan Center, Morris Performing Arts Center, State Theater, St. Patrick's Park and Mishawaka Brewing Co. Some band members graduated, but others were still in school, which Cummins said "ended up being a good thing." 
"I remember once having $135-a­month rent," he said. "We were general­ly able to do OK, just playing shows." 
In summer of 2000, Umphrey's moved to Chicago, and the national touring began. The word of mouth that nudged the band into the Bend exposed it to a much larger audience. Cummins credits much of Umphrey's success to the Internet and the "copies and copies" of live shows spread by band members and fans. · 
Now, a more seasoned Umphrey's ­which now includes guitarist and vocal­ist Jake Cinninger, percussionist Andy Farag and drummer Kris Myers -is coming off ·of a successful tour to Europe and Japan, as well as prime slots at Lollapalooza and Dave Matthews Band shows. Rolling Stone went as far as to dub the guys "odds-on favorites in the next-Phish sweepstakes," a categoriza­tion that Cummins considers "for the most part, definitely an honor." 
"We look at it as a positive thing ­they're one of the greatest bands. out there," he said. "It definitely makes sense for our attitude toward music, our influences ... But you know, music is a hard thing to categorize." 
And Umphrey's -whose influences range from Frank Zappa to metal of the '70s, '80s and '90s, to country and clas­sical -certainly doesn't fit neatly into any musical mold. 
Which is fine by Cummins. With "cook­ie-cutter" music, he said, "you kind of lose being in the moment and creating something. 
"In the moment -that's the real important thing for us." 
Umphrey's McGee plays tonight at the Robert J. Fischgrund Center for Performing Arts at St. Patrick's County Park. Doors open at 6:30 p.m., and the concert begins at 7:30. Tickets are $25 and on sale through Umphrey's Ticketing, www.umphreys.com 
The all-ages show is a benefit for Hannah and Friends. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 


Friday, September 8, 2006 


THE OBSERVER 

page 19 


By ANALISE LIPARI Assistant Scene Editor 
This semester, the DeBartolo Performing Art Center's Michael Browning Family Cinema will play host to a wide variety of featured events, ranging from film festivals to single showings of both old and new classics. Since the DPAC's inception and opening, . the Browning has featured an impres­sive array of films, with this fall proving no exception. 
Proud to advertise itself as a local "art house" theater on the DPAC's website, the Browning is a versatile and well­used space. It is capable of showing tilms in any format from 8mm film to DVD to the industry standard 35mm film, and is the sole THX-certified film theater in the state of Indiana. 
In the Browning's short but impressive history. it has proven to be a haven for artistic and popular films alike. Previous films featured have ranged from the crit­ically acclaimed 2005 documentary "Grizzly Man," to the 194 7 Gregory Peck classic "Gentleman's Agreement." As part of the "PAC Classic 100," the Browning has made it a mission to showcase films of an impressive caliber, including Orson Welles' "Citizen Kane," 
among others. d h• .,,, .. ·, : . This past spring's sold'-out showing of Ang Lee's "Brokeback Mountain" served 
as the opening of the tilm series titled Gay and Lesbian Film: Filmmakers, Narratives, Spectatorships, and the annual Student Film Festival has also 
found a welcome home in the Browning. 
The Browning also serves as the meet­
ing location of the Notre Dame Film 
Society, a group that views and discusses 
films throughout the academic year. 
Sponsored by the Film, Television and 
Theater department, the Film Society is 
technically an FTT elective course 
through which students can participate 
in film viewing and topical discussions. 
The Film Society meets weekly at 7 
every Sunday night. 

For the upcoming fall season, the 
Browning has another varied but 
impressive line-up. The PAC Classic 100 
series will include such films as 1959 
Marilyn Monroe classic "Some Like It 
Hot" on Nov. 19, the 1940's "The 
Philadelphia Story" Nov. 5 and 1969's 
Sam Peckinpah's seminal Western "The 
Wi1d Bunch" on Oct. 8. 

As the semester continues, the 
Browning Cinema will feature screen­
ings of a wide variety of contemporary 
films as well. Some of interest to stu­
dents in the Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's communities include 2006's 
"School for Scoundrels," featuring none 
other than "Napoleon Dynamite" star 
John Heder alongside Ben Stiller. Also, 
1996's "Some Mother's Son," a story of 
the I.R.A.. will be featured as part of the 
Nanovic Film Series. · · On~ of the' surpriSing benefits of hav­
ing the Browning Cinema on campus is 
its inexpensive price. Showings of films 
are at most three dollars, making it a 
legitimate alternative to venturing off­
campus to the movie theater. There is 
also a snack bar on the first floor, which 

J 

' 
Another upcoming feature is the Browning's showing of "Wordplay," a 2006 documentary about Will Shortz, 
well-beloved creator of the New York Times crossword puzzle. The Cinema l will host the film's director, Patrick Creadon, at both of the Thursday and Friday evening showings. 
j
With these anCI· other films· to be ·fea­tured in the coming weeks and months, 
l 
(
the fall of 2006 should prove to be the most interesting that the Browning Cinema has yet seen. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
DPAC AND FTT PUT A TWIST ON THEATER CLASSICS 
By MICHELLE FORDICE Scene Writer 
The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center and the Department of Film, Television and Theatre (FTT) are set to launch another theatre season, this time with a couple of twists on some old classics. This season's performances include "Hamlet," "Big Love," "Threepenny Opera" and "The Mousetrap." 
The Actors From the London Stage will get this season underway at Washington Hall with a production of Shakespeare's "Hamlet." Probably Shakespeare's most well-known tragedy, "Hamlet" is a grasping tale of treachery, madness, and murder. Prince Hamlet is asked by his father's ghost to avenge his untimely death after his brother Claudius mur­dered him and then proceeded to marry his wife and Hamlet's mother. As the play continues, all proudly fall into death and insanity in true tragic form. 
The Actors From the London Stage, based in London, use Notre Dame as their American home and travel all over the country from here. They are known for performing their plays with limited actors (five actors will play over twenty­five characters in this version of "Hamlet"), sets and props. This should inspire a very fundamental and different telling of the play that won't suffer from distractions. "Hamlet" will run from Sept.13toSept.15. 
Charles L. Mee's "Big Love," the first adds to both the comfort of the theater as well as the movie-going experience. 

Tonight at 7 and 10, the Browning is showing "Iron Island," a 2006 film directed by Mohammad Rasoulof. Filmed in Farsi (Persian) and shown with English subtitles, the film tells the story of a broken-down tanker, affectionately known as "Iron Island," that serves as a shelter for a group of homeless families off of the Iranian coast. Led by one Captain Nemat (Ali Nassirian), the com­munity finds itself facing a rebellion when the questions of mutiny and young love arise. 
show put on by the FTT department, is a modernized version of Aeschylus' "The Suppliant Woman" and will directed by FTT professor Siiri Scott. The source material from Aeschylus is considered to be the oldest surviving play from the western world. "Big Love" begins when Fifty Greek brides flee their impending marriage to their fifty cousins by boat and find refugee at an Italian villa. Soon after, their fiances track them by heli­copter and arrive at the scene, prompt­ing an explosion of emotions and plots. This comedic, physical (the cast needs to be able to do gymnastics as much as act) and extravagant approach to issues of gender, society and commercialism is one that shouldn't be missed. 
"Big Love" has already been cast and a fight coordinator will be brought in to "stage the mayhem and train the per­formers," according to Kevin Dreyer, an FTT associate professor and Director of Theater 'ror the department. "Big Love" will run from Nov. 7 to Nov. 17. 
"The Mousetrap" is an appropriate end to a season that began with "Hamlet" and will be directed by FTT professor Jay Paul Skelton. "The Mousetrap" is Hamlet's name for the famous play in which he tries "to catch the conscience of the king." 
But this play is not the grim "The Murder of Gonzag')," but the stage ver­sion of a r{ldio play by murder mystery master Agatha Christie,which has become the longest continuously running play in history, having been performed 
in London since 1952. 
A young couple has just opened the 
Monkswell Manor Guest House and are 
preparing for their first visitors. As an 
eccentric group of guests arrives it 
begins to snow, and soon there is no 
hope of leaving the house. But before 
they can settle in comfortably, a police 
officer arrives at the house claiming that 
a murderer is in the vicinity. 
When one of the guests is killed, they realize that the murderer is already there. and they have no escape. The sus­picions rise and tensions mount in this classic Christie mystery. "The Mousetrap" will run from February 27th to March 4th." 
"Threepenny Opera," (to be directed by FTT professor Anton Juan) the department's first musical theatre piece in over twenty years, is an adaptation of the 18th century English Ballard opera "The Beggar's Opera," but this is no "La Boehme" or "Madame Butterfly." With a jazzy score that created the standard "Mack the Knife" and a plot that fea­tures anti-heroes, love triangles and crime, "Threepenny Opera" is an irre­sistible show. 
It. opens as the notorious criminal Macheathe (Mack the Knife) marries Polly Peachum to the displeasure of her powerful father. Jonathan Peachum and his wife set out to have Macheathe hanged and begin building up plots wrapped in betrayal. "Threepenny Opera" will run from April 17 to April 22. 
Each of this year's selections is a step back from the norm, and should be won­derfully attuned to a modern audience. There is a little something for everyone, from murder, to romance, to jazz. Don't miss what looks to be an amazing season at'the DPAC. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 

Friday, September 8, 2006 

page 20 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB -NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Duffy's two homers lead Pirates over Cubs 
One night after no-hitter, Marlins allow 14 runs in loss; Glavine, Mets shut out Los Angeles at Shea, 7-0 
Associated Press small ball. With two outs, he Philadelphia overcame a 3-0 outraced Marshall to the bag on deficit against Josh Johnson 
CHICAGO -Chris Duffy hit a grounder to the right of first (12-7) to win the opener of a his first two home runs of the baseman Scott Moore, stole sec­four-game series between NL season, including a tiebreaking ond and came around to score wild-card contenders. shot in the ninth inning, as the on a single by Xavier Nady one The Phillies and Marlins play Pittsburgh Pirates defeated the batter later. 10 times in the final 3 1/2 Chicago Cubs 7-5 on Thursday. Pittsburgh added three more weeks of the season, and they 
Duffy led off the ninth with a runs in the fourth thanks in began the night tied in the wild­shot to center off Scott Eyre (0-large part to the defensive slop­card standings, three games 
2) for his second homer of the piness that has come to define behind San Diego. day. For the day, the center the Cubs' season. With runners Florida's Anibal Sanchez fielder went 4-for-4 with three on first and second, Jose threw a no-hitter Wednesday RBis and two stolen bases and Castillo bounced a grounder to against Arizona, but Johnson's three runs scored. third that should have been a no-hit bid lasted only until the 
Jonah Bayless (1-0) got the double play, but second base­third batter, when Utley singled. 
last out in the eight for his first man Freddie Bynum couldn't Philadelphia totaled 17 hits career victory. Salomon Torres get a grip on the relay throw against six pitchers. pitched the ninth for his fourth and Chicago had to settle for Howard hit his 1Oth homer in save. one out. 15 games in the third inning. 
Duffy got things off to a quick Coste drove in four runs and hit 
start for the Pirates, hitting the Phillies 14, Marlins 8 his sixth home run, and Utley's 
second pitch of the game from The Florida Marlins' bid for three-run homer made the 
Sean Marshall into the right­back-to-hack no-hitters ended score 10-4. Conine added a 
field bleachers. That home run in the first inning, and Ryan three-run homer in the ninth, 
was his first of the year, and Howard's 54th home run helped his first since joining the Phillies 
just the second of his career in the Philadelphia Phillies rally on Aug. 27. 353 at-bats. for a victory Thursday night. Jon Lieber (7-9) won despite 
Duffy was back at it again in Chris Coste, Chase Utley and allowing first-inning homers to 
the third, but this time playing Jeff Conine also homered, and Miguel Cabrera and Mike Jacobs. Lieber allowed four runs and seven hits in 5 1-3 innings. 
Phillies closer Tom Gordon, the fifth. Howard and Conine battered Brad Penny and the 
sidelined since Aug. 12 with a singled and Dellucci walked to Los Angeles Dodgers Thursday 
strained right shoulder, pitched load the bases with one out, night. 
the ninth. and a run scored when short­Glavine (13-6) was sharp in 
Florida's Josh Willingham hit stop Hanley Ramirez juggled his first Shea Stadium outing a three-run homer, his 22nd the ball at second trying to turn since Aug. 5, the date of his and one of seven in the game. a potential inning-ending dou­previous win and before a blood 
Johnson gave up five runs and ble play. clot in his pitching arm side­nine hits in 4 2-3 innings. His Philadelphia added five runs lined him for two weeks. The ERA rose from 2.99, third-low­in the seventh. Coste hit his left-bander worked into the sev­est in the major leagues, to sixth homer and Utley hit his enth inning for the 14th time 
3.20. 26th. this season and combined on 
The buzz about the no-hitter Pinch-hitter Randall Simon New York's second straight produced no increase at the box singled home an unearned run shutout. office: The game drew a crowd in the eighth. He yielded five hits but no of 12,712 for the team that Florida scored three runs in walks in 6 1-3 innings and ranks last in the major leagues the first, all with two out on a earned his 288th major league in attendance. pair of home runs that came on victory _ but just his fourth in 
Conine, who spent much of 3-2 pitches. Cabrera hit his 14 starts dating to June 18. his career with the Marlins and 25th homer, Willingham dou­Glavine had three perfect is back in the NL, received a bled and Jacobs hit his 19th innings and never faced more warm ovation when he batted homer. than five batters in any frame. leading off the second inning. New York, which hasn't He hit the first pitch for a triple. Mets 7, Dodgers 0 allowed a run in 25 innings, cut 
David Dellucci walked, and Tom Glavine won for the first its magic number for winning both runners scored on Coste's time in more than a month, and the NL East to seven, while Los double. Jimmy Rollins doubled Jose Reyes flew around the Angeles saw its NL West lead 
( home another run. bases for his first career inside­shrink to just a half-game over The Phillies scored again in the-park home run as the Mets idle San Diego. 


The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The 
charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
2-6 BDRM HOMES & ROOMS Weekend lodging for NO home FOR SALE: NO TICKETS. 232· Travel with STS to this years top 10 NEAR CAMPUS AVAIL FOR FOOT-games. 2 nice rooms w/house privi-0964 Spring Break destinations! Best BALL WEEKENDS & SCHOOL leges. 20 mins. from stadium. Call deals guaranteed! Highest rep com-
FoR SALE FoR RENT 
YEAR. 57 4-329-0308. www.geoci-269-699-7447. Need ND tix & parking pass all missions. Visit www.ststravel.com or Condo for sale 2 bdrm twnhse call B&B lodging w/alum for ND football ties.com/gillisrealty@ sbcglobal.net home games. 574-276-8507. call 1-800-648-4849. Great group games. 574-243-2628 or gary-House for Rent PSU/UM weekends. discounts. 269-445-2765 therese @yahoo. com Weekend rental: 3 BR Home, walk 25 min.away -2 blcks frm Lake A BUSINESSMAN PAYING TOP$$ to stadium, Terrace Ln. 269-930-Mich.Sieeps 11. Kit.,2 bath,grill. Call FOR SEASON TIX OR INDIVIDUAL Willing to swap 2 PU tix for 2 UCLA Investment homes for sale near ND. 2 rooms in private home w/sepa-8038. swmient@qtm.net 708-525-4293. GAMES. CALL MARK 574-277-tix. Call Bob 277-2560. rate entrance for football weekends. 1659. 866-521-8989. Shared bath. Close to ND. New lodging for ND home games. 2 Rooms for ND home games. 574-TRADE-HAVE 2 ND/PS. NEED 2 
57 4-259-8603. bdrm apt. above Mishawaka bar. 273-5035. AN ACTUAL ABOVE-AVERAGE ND/MICH Enchanting 2-story 2·3 bdrm cot-Dates avail. ABIDING FAN DESPERATELY N.D.GRISH@ MCHSI.COM tage on 3/4 acre lot across from 2-3-4 bdrms. Share w/FRIENDS. Call 360-8165. B&B for home games in private NEEDS FOOTBALL TIX. ANY OR Warren Golf Course. Low taxes & 50% off dep. if rented by 10/1. home close to NO. Email: ALL GAMES. LOCAL CALL 654­utilities. $145,000. 255-7000. Suite available for Penn State & white.131 @nd.edu 0169. 
Michigan weekends. Walk to ND. PERSONAL Call 574-277-2684 or Rent a home ND football weekends. $150/night. 574-235-4091. Also Apt. for home games. 1.5 mi to ND. WAN fED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. mascotte@ com cast. net 574-784-8638. monthly units available. 574-386-6014. TOP OOLLAR PAID. NOBODY UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 
WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726. not go it alone. If you or someone 
During football season -Do not rent NOW LEASING FOR 2007-2008 House for home games. 4 doors 11 bdrm house available for 2007-you love needs confidential support or Hotel it. Buy apartment complex. STADIUM CLUB CONDOMINIUMS from ND. Call Gary at 2008. Just renovated, 2 kitchens, FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TICK-or assistance, please call Sr. Sue 10 one-bdrm furnished units. 4 mi to Spacious 2bdrm 2ba. 5.5 baths, large common areas and ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232-Dunn, OP, at'l-7819. For more ND. Great investment or convert to Washer/Dryer. Call Susan Miller at 57 4-993-2208. backyard. Contact 2378. Information, see our bi-weekly ad in condos. 243-7530. MacSwain@ gmail.com The Observer. 
RV ND home games. Sleeps 6-8. TOP$ PAID FOR ND FOOTBALL Call Larry 574-255-9363 or BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam-Transportation, tailgating & lodging. TKTS 289-9280 www.ndgamedayroom.com 257-0039. pus homes & weekend rentals. 
Bluegoldrentals.com 574-243-5547. TICKETS Travel with STS to this years top 10 ATTORNEY Lyn Leone available. 523 Howard St. 4 blocks off cam-Rental homes 3-6 bdrms. Close to Spring Break destinations! Best Underage consumption, DWI. 574­pus. 2 BDRM Home. 1000 sq.ft. NO. Call Gary 574-993-2208. House for rent for football week-WANTED: deals guaranteed! Highest rep com-272-1968. basement/garage. NO Games 1-3M. 3 Bdrms priv. ends. Sleeps 6-8. Call Kay evenings Notre Dame tickets. missions. Visit www.ststravel.com or Everything new. $65,900. 574-257· homes at call1-800-648-4849. Great group Thank God it's Friday! 9683. 574-273-2241. 269-663-8203. 251-1570 discounts. Go Irish! Beat Lions! 

....----------·---------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, September 8, 2006 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 
! j 
1 
! 
-
-

SMOOTH MOVES 

small-company big-companyenvironment impact 

Who says you have to choose? 
The Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, the world's most comprehensive and broadly based manufacturer of health care products, will be visiting your campus. Come discover how our small-company environments, combined with our big-company impact, can open the door to a world of career opportunities. 
Look deeper at the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies. 
find more 
jnj.com/careers
University of Notre Dame 
Johnson &Johnson Presentation 

Come learn about opportunities that may be available in: Business, MIS, CAPP, Computer Science, Science, Engineering, Finance. Accountancy, and Economics. 
Johnson & Johnson Services. Inc. is a member of the Johnson & Johnson family of Companies. 
Date/Time: September 11, 2006, 5:30 PM Location: McKenna Hall Auditorium 
0 Johnson & Johnson Services, Inc. 2006. Johnson & Johnson companies are equal opportunity employers. SMALL-COMPANY ~NVIRONMENTIBIG-COMPANY IMPACT is a registert'd trademark of Johnson & Johnson. 
WOMEN'S u.s. OPEN 
Sharapova still seeks another Grand Slam 
Tennis phenom zvill play in her seventh Grand Slam semifinal 
Associated Press NEW YOHK Maria Sharapova's pursuit of a second Grand Slam title keeps stalling in the semifinals. Since bursting onto the scene at 17 by winning Wimbledon in 2004, she's accumulated mil­lions of dollars in endorsement deals, briefly reached No. 1 in the rankings, and come oh-so­close over and over again to daiming another major trophy. Sharapova will play in her seventh semifinal in the last 1 0 Grand Slam tournaments Friday at the U.S. Open, facing top­seeded Amelie Mauresmo. No. 2 Justine Henin-Hardenne faces No. 19 Jelena Jankovic for the other spot in the final. 

Andy Hoddick, the 2003 Open champion, meets 54th-ranked Mikhail Youzhny in one men's semifinal Saturday. The other two semifinal spots were up for grabs Thursday, with two-time defending champion Hoger Federer against No. 5 James 
Blake,  and  No.  7  Nikolay  
Davydenko  against  No.  14  
Tommy Haas.  

With so much attention from spectators and sponsors, one might think Sharapova would feel pressure to produce a fol­low-up triumph. 
Not one bit, it turns out. 

"It's not easy to win your first one. I was very surprised that I did at the age that I was. I did not feel that I was physically or mentally ready for it," she said. 
"But it takes a lot of hard work, and I think everything has to come together: your game, how you feel physically, and maybe a little bit of luck once in a while. I've come very close the last few times, but I've got many more years to win my second one." 
Sharapova and Mauresmo practiced on adjacent courts Thursday afternoon. Mauresmo briefly chatted with fans in French while autographing hats and shirts as she left. A larger crowd gathered around to watch Sharapova and she signed about a dozen items without saying a word or look­ing up. 
Since her out-of-nowhere breakthrough at the All England Club, Sharapova is 0-5 in major semifinals, including losses this year to Henin-Hardenne at the Australian Open and Mauresmo at Wimbledon. 
Is it frustrating to keep slip­
• 0 0 

pmg m semts.? 
"llonestly, there is no frustra­tion. The only frustration there is coming off a match and real­izing the little things that you could have done difl'erently and things that were in your hands in order to win that match. But it has nothing to do with getting to the final or winning another Grand Slam," said the third­seeded Sharapova, the only semifinalist who hasn't dropped a set during the Open. 
"I mean, the last thing I worry about when I go on court is try­ing to prove anything to anyone. I don'L have anything to prove." 
Mauresmo played 31 majors over 11 seasons without win­ning a major title, but she's now two wins away from her third Grand Slam title of 2006. 
She's 3-0 against Sharapova, and figures that's a direct result of the mix-and-match style Mauresmo has mastered, with some power from the baseline here, and some finesse at the net there. 
"The change of pace probably is something that she doesn't like," Ma uresmo said, "and that's my game, that's the way I play. I'm not going to change." 
A quick glance at the semifi­nal lineup makes clear that one of these is not like the others: Jankovic is the only semifinalist who's never won a Grand Slam title and who's never been ranked No. 1. 
She'd never even been beyond the fourth round at a major before, and was so down in the dumps after losing 10 conseCLt­tive matehes early this season that she considered quitting ten­nis altogether and dedicating herself to her college studies. 
Friday, September 8, 2006

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 


Favre and Packers get ready to take on Bears 
Now they have a rookie head Bears into a pass-first team.
Chicago heads to 
coach, Mike McCarthy, and The Bears will try to run Lambeau to renew expect to start four rookies as against the Packers and rookie part of an extensive offseason linebacker A.J. Hawk, and areNFC North rivalry roster makeover. expected to start running back Chicago, meanwhile, returns Thomas Jones. Cedric Benson, Associated Press all 22 starters from last year's the No. 4 pick in last year's NFC North champions, includ­draft, injured his shoulder in 
GHEEN BAY, Wis. -Maybe ing quarterback Rex Grossman, training camp, but might play. someday, Brett Favre will ride who's finally healthy. "We are a defensive-minded his tractor around the ranch in But the Bears' stingy defense team and we run the ball well," Mississippi and relish in all struggled in a playoff loss to the Grossman said. "We'd like to those victories over the Chicago Carolina Panthers in January, add a passing game that's not Bears. and Grossman didn't look par­ranked last in the league. We 
For now, Favre can only focus ticularly sharp in the presea­want to get our passing game on how the Green Bay Packers son. very, very respectable, at the suddenly lost their pronounced "It would be hard for us to be least. Once we do that, I think advantage in one of the best overconfident," Bears coach we'll have a complete team, and rivalries in sports. Lovie Smith said. "Going into we're on the right track as far 
Favre has a 21-7 career the first game of the season, I as that goes. We didn't play real record against Chicago, but lost think teams get overconfident well in the first couple presea­both games last season to the maybe if they've won a lot in a son games, but I know it's com­Bears, who open the season at certain year, but that's not the ing and we're a confident Lambeau Field on Sunday. case with us." bunch." 
"Yeah, there have been some Injuries have limited Grossman Grossman has his doubters. great games, but I think back to to only seven starts in three Then again, so does Favre after last year," Favre said. "They seasons, although two of those throwing a career-worst 29 had the upper hand on us. They games were victories in interceptions last year. played great football last year. Lambeau Field. If Grossman Favre, 36, has praised the And it makes you appreciate struggles, he might face pres­Packers' young talent and likes those years when we were beat­sure from experienced backup McCarthy's offensive theories. ing those guys. And so it's kind quarterback Brian Griese. But But Favre also acknowledges of like starting over, even Smith expects Grossman to suc­that they won't accomplish though I'm an older player. I ceed. much if rookie guards Jason mean, I'd love to get back on "He's a winner," Smith said. Spitz and Tony Moll can't play top -not only against these "All those qualities you're look­like veterans right away. guys, but against everyone." ing for in your leader, as your "You can only go as far as 
The Packers fell hard last sea­quarterback, I think Rex has, your offensive line takes you," son, and not just to the Bears. except for right now he hasn't Favre said. They lost several key players to had a chance to play a lot of Bears defensive end Adewale injury and finished 4-12, their football. Hopefully that will Ogunleye says Favre hasn't first losing season with Favre at change this year." changed much, but the players quarterback. Grossman won't turn the around him definitely have. 








PHREY'S cGEE 
FRIDAY, SEPT. 
ROBERT .J .. FISCHGRUND CENTER F,ORTFf'i:· P~::ja_FORMING;AR. 
50651 La~~~p::::.~~!ti~~::r:::'l:~~;;,~;.;~;~:c' 

._, DIC)c:ti"•!'6:30pftl···+ i··.:onc~rt:······.•• 7:;t~pm 
.. 
·.Tl-;kets are ~~$~;_~ tl;tere is······~····$4 .. parkin.;}~~; p~t;.·.ve,bicle 
. . TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT WW'W..TTIIRC...C()M 

( 

Friday, September 8, 2006 page 23 
The Observer + SPORTS 
GAMBLING 
British bookie booked in New York for racketeering 
12-7 Sotlth l\1ichigan St. Across fiTJm College I~oottJall H.all of I~:~111e 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The chairman of British online gambling com­parry Sportingbet PLC has been detained in New York on a fugi­tive warrant, two months after the chief executive of BetOnSports PLC was arrested in the United States on racketeering charges. 
Peter Dicks was arrested at Kennedy International Airport following his arrival on a flight from England, Queens district attorney spokesman Kevin. Ryan said Thursday. 
Customs, performing a routine . name check around 11:30 p.m. Wednesday, discovered he had an outstanding warrant issued by the Louisiana State Police Gaming Enforcement Division. 
Police officers with the Port Authority, which runs the air­port, took Dicks into custodv, where he remained Thursday awaiting arraignment in a state court. 
The May warrant charged Dicks, who lives in London, with gambling by computer, a felony punishable by up to five years year in prison and a $25,000 fine, said Senior Trooper Dwight Robinette Jr., spokesman for Louisiana State Police. 
Robinette said Louisiana authorities intend to bring Dicks back to stand trial in St. Landry Parish, where the warrant for his arrest was signed. 
Robinette said more arrest warrants have issued in connec­tion with the case but he declined to provide more information. He said authorities in January launched an investigation into the online gambling industry that involved Sportingbet. 
He would not say if other online gambling companies have been targeted by Louisiana authorities. 
Shares in the company were suspended by the London Stock Exchange at Sportingbet's request. Based on the Wednes­day closing price, those shares were worth more than $1.5 bil­lion. 
Dicks, 64, is the second execu­tive of a British Internet sports­betting company to be held in the U.S. after David Carruthers, for­mer chief executive officer of BetOnSports PLC, was arrested in July. The company fired Carruthers, who remains under house arrest in the St. Louis area awaiting trial, and closed its U.S. Web sites. 
The founder of Abingdon PLC, a private equity firm, Dicks is also a director at Nasdaq-listed Polar Technology Trust PLC and Standard Microsystems Corp., and has been non-executive director at Sportingbet since 2000. 
Safegui!rding



Amer1ca 
National Security in the 21st Century 
-A PUBLIC LECTURE BY ­
c:ongressn1an 
PRESIDEN'1', CEN'l'ER F()R NA~fl()Ni\L PC?LlCY 1\N,r1· ') ',1·1:: ~,1·1:' 1:: 1') CYF' ,.I., l·..l·l:~· 0 / J I C~() \;1 i\/1..ISSI()N 
~-.i. .. i "\ . -· .s. . _} __ , ' . -. . . --·" 7 . ~-~ ... ~-. .6 '--... 
MLB 

A day later, Sanchez basks in first no-hitter 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -The game began on a damp, typically dreary night at the Florida Marlins' ballpark, with a couple of thousand fans in the stands, reaffirming that the city has yet to embrace its young, overachieving, playoff-chasing team. 
By the ninth inning. the crowd was on its _feet, roaring 

307 East University Drive Next to Stlper Target 
WELCOME BACK STUDENTS 
Come enjoy breakfast, brunch or lunch before kickoff. Let's go Irish! weekdays 6:30 AM -2 PM weekends 7 AM -2 pm 
that helps the team," 
"No-Hitter Night" apparently 

needed more advance promo­
tion. The atmosphere was so 
subdued that Marlins ace 
Dontrelle Willis, watching 
from the dugout, didn't realize 
Arizona was hitless until 
teammates charged the field 
after the final out. 
Sanchez was mobbed near 

the mound, then pointed and 
thrust his fists to the stands, 
where his wife was easy to 
spot amid the many vacant 
seats. 
Popular with his teammates, 

Sanchez showed endearing 
grace as he savored his night 
in the spotlight. He wept on 
the field, happily took a pie in 
the face from a teammate dur­
ing a TV interview and 
beamed throughout a 10­
minute news conference. 
The smile widened when he 

was asked about his tears on 
the field. 
"I cried because I was excit­

ed," he said. "That's the best 
moment of my life." 
He celebrated until nearly 4 

a.m. at the home of teammate and fellow Venezuelan Miguel Cabrera, watching highlights of the game on TV. 
The son of a truck driver, Sanchez is a teetotaler and devoted husband. 
His progress through the minor leagues was slowed by Tommy John surgery in 2003, and until Wednesday night he wasn't well known even in Venezuela. 
Florida acquired him last November in the deal that sent Josh Beckett and Mike Lowell to the Boston Red Sox. He went 3-6 this season for Double-A Carolina before join­ing the Marlins, and in June he became the second starting pitcher in 10 seasons to win -­his major league debut as a visitor at Yankee Stadium. 
One of four rookies in the Marlins' rotation, he has made 13 starts and is 7-2 with a 
2.89 ERA. 
"He has been tested as tough as a test can be, and has come through with flying colors," manager Joe Girardi said. "To have your first start at Yankee Stadium, that's a test. And then to watch him accomplish things has been remarkable. He has a great work ethic and a love for the game. You watch him and how the other players embrace him, and you can get a sense of what kind of guy he is." 

page 24 Friday, September 8, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 


Mannings ready to duel in season opener 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. ­Eli Manning never could com­pete with brother Peyton Manning. 
From bumper pool to table tennis, it just wasn't fair. Peyton, five years older, was stronger, faster, taller and quicker. 
"I don't remember when I won at those things," Eli said. 
He vividly recalls beating his old brother for the first time at basketball, when he was 17. Peyton was 22 and playing quar­terback at Tennessee. 
"I don't know if if was really fair," Eli said. "I was in the mid­dle of basketball season, I think, playing for my high school, and he hadn't shot a basketball in about five years, so I probably had an advantage over him." 
It wasn't a big advantage, but Eli won the tight game with a dunk. 
"It was one thing to lose to your little brother, but to get dunked on the last play, he was­n't too happy about it," Eli recalled, adding that his brother was so miffed he didn't want to be around his younger sibling for the rest of the day. 
Their father took the hoop down shortly afterward, fearing Peyton could get injured, and there still hasn't been a rematch. However, the sons of Archie Manning will face each other for ··"'! the first time in their NFL careers Sunday night when Peyton and the Indianapolis Colts play Eli and the New York Giants '' in what has been dubbed either
' 
'. '' "The Manning Bowl" or "The Brothers Bowl." 
I':~ 
'( It will mark the first time in
'I 
'I I I league history that brothers have :~ opposed each other as starting I I quarterbacks. The matchup
: > 
I I 
almost overshadows just how 
I I 
:5 good a game it is. I I The Colts (14-2} had the best
I ) ,, I I ,• J regular-season record last sea­
t ,1) 
son, opening the campaign with 
'II
'N•II 13 straight wins. The season .,,IIJ ended in disappointment with a 
•n
I )I -t' 21-18 loss to eventual Super 
·~~II Bowl champion Pittsburgh ~~ Steelers in the AFC semifinals. 
tl t? t( The Giants (11-5) won the NFC 
II East and made the playoffs for
II 
/I the first time in three years. New 
~~ 
N -7,, York was a no-show in the open­;~ ing round of the playoffs, losing 23-0 to Carolina. 
"You knew this was coming," Colts coach Tony Dungy said. "You couldn't have asked for more, two playoff teams from last year, playing in New York on opening night with a story line that has never happened before in the NFL. You couldn't have scripted it any better." 
The so-called family feud has been hyped since the NFL came out with its schedule months ago. 
The people who have had the least to say about it are Peyton and Eli, both No. 1 picks overall in the NFL draft. They have insisted it's another game, because neither will be playing directly against the other. 
"He and I really haven't talked about it a whole lot," said Peyton, a two-time NFL MVP. "Obviously everyone else talks about it a lot, and the hype ... that certainly hasn't come from he and 1." 
Giants center Shaun O'Hara said Eli hasn't indicated that the game has special meaning. 
"It's about the Giants," O'Hara said. "He wants it that way. He does not want it to be Eli vs. Peyton." 
That doesn't mean the game is just another one for Eli, who rarely shares his innermost thoughts with the media or his coaches. 

Jets are touchy subject for Mawae 
Team released veteran center after injury-plagued 2005 season 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Kevin Mawae is 35, heading into his 13th NFL season after missing the final 10 games of 2005 with a torn left triceps, and couldn't be happier. 
Just don't ask him about his former team, the New York Jets. 
His new team, the Tennessee Titans, open the season Sunday by hosting the Jets and the coach who apparently decided they didn't need a six-time Pro Bowl cen­ter anymore. 
''I'm not going to address it, not one bit," Mawae said politely, but firmly. "It's not about me and the Jets. It's about the Titans, and I'm not going to address anything. I know what the media is like up there." 
After the Jets cut Mawae, he said he was told new coach Eric Mangini wanted smart players willing to do the little things the right way. Those comments made Mawae think he'd fit right in -until he · was released March 5. 
The Titans chased Mawae to replace Justin Hartwig, who signed with Carolina. He agreed to a four-year deal without visiting Nashville, instead talking with coach Jeff Fisher and former left tackle Brad Hopkins. 
Fisher said Thursday that Mawae brings the subtle reminders before breaking the huddle, communication throughout the line and expe­rience that allows him to alert linemates when to antidpate audibles. 
"Those are the kind of things that help to settle things down. He's working well with the quarterbacks and the check systems and the audibles. I'd like to think we'll have fewer mistakes, assignment-type mistakes, than we have in years past," Fisher said. -
Mawae certainly is recov­ered from the torn triceps and hasn't worn a brace since 
joining the Titans. The 6-foot­4, 289-pound center prides himself on staying healthy and started 177 straight games before last year's injury ended his season. 
He spent the previous eight seasons with the Jets and played 118 games, a stretch that included six straight Pro Bowl berths between 1999 and 2004. 
Mangini called Mawae an outstanding player and per­son and pointed out he was with the Jets when Mawae was brought over from Seattle. 
"That's the tough part of this business sometimes. You've got to make difficult decisions, and we had to make one which we thought was in the best interest of the team," Mangini said. "I really wish him well. He's a player 
SHOW YOUR SCHOOL SPIRI WITH PRIDE! 
Decorate your CAR with reusable, removable Green Shamrock magn 

$9.50/pack of 6 
(plus S&H) 
Type Notre Dame in the comments when you order and we wiH wave the S&H fee 




www.stickems.biz 
and let everyone know that you support the FIGHTING IRISH 
that I respect and like as a person quite a bit." 
The Jets replaced Mawae by drafting Nick Mangold with the 29th p~ck overall in April. 
Jets linebacker Jona than Vilma remembers how Mawae would get him ready for games by holding him back in practice. Now he has the chance to go against Mawae in a game that counts. 
"It's going to be interesting, because even though we were in practice, he'd find a way to get up to the linebacker. It's going to be a good battle," Vilma said. 
The Titans also needed the work ethic and professional­ism Mawae has brought to the locker room, especially on an offensive line where right guard Benji Olson had been their most senior player with eight years in the NFL. 

Friday, September 8, 2006 
page 25 

The Observer • SPORTS 
NFL 
Expectations for Bush lifts spirits in New Orleans 
Saints look much different from what QB Brees anticipated 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -This isn't quite what Drew Brees signed up for. 
His new team's top receiver from last year was traded out of New Orleans during presea­isn't complaining yet. 

son, replaced by a seventh­"You're going to put your 
round draft pick out of Division best guys out there, whether 
1-AA Hofstra. One of the Saints' they are your veterans, rookies 
most experienced linemen has or sixth-or seventh-round 
been placed on injured reserve, picks," Brees said. "We have 
and a rookie out of Division II the ability to do a lot with our 
Bloomsburg is starting in that personnel, talking about 
spot. Reggie, Deuce.... We have Then again, the Saints do weapons and I think: Put our 
have Reggie Bush, a healthy guys up against anybody in the 
Deuce McAllister and reliable league and I feel we should be 
receiver Joe Horn, so Brees successful." The NFL has promoted the Saints' return to New Orleans as symbolic of the city's recov­ery. And that symbolism goes quite deep, actually. 
Think of the Saints, 3-13 in last year's hurricane-altered season, as one of those thou­sands of homes here that were swamped during Katrina. Some valuables could be saved. Everything else had to go. 
In the Saints case, more than half of the 53-player active squad has changed since 2005 -a roster gutting conducted by new coach Sean Payton. 
"The mistake is staying put with thP team that just finished 3-13," Payton said. "The last thing we want to do is leave things alone." 
In early 2006, insurance money began to flow in for numerous residents. Some acquired new prized posses­sions. The Saints' compensa­tion for last year's losing per­formance came in the form of the No. 2 overall draft pick. In came Bush, the Heisman Trophy winner who seems to draw countless comparisons to coach Jim Haslett led the Hall of Farner Gale Sayers, Saints to the playoffs after they after Houston surprisingly had gone 3-13 under Mike chose defensive end Mario Ditka, would be a bonus. Williams first overall. For that to happen, a number 
Morale shot up all across this of unproven players will have tattered town as people began to learn quickly and exceed reliving Bush's many expectations. enthralling USC highlights in Take the offensive line. their minds, but with a black­With veteran tackle Wayne 
and-gold fleur-de- Gandy  traded,  
lis superimposed  second-year pro  
on the red-and­gold Trojan.  ..The last thing we  Jammal Brown has moved from  
Ticket  sales  want to do is leave  right  tackle  to  
took off, as well. The Saints are on  things alone.··  left, meaning he's now protecting  
the brink of sell­ the right-throw­ 
ing out all 68,354  Sean Payton  ing Brees' blind  
seats in  a  refur­ Saints coach  side.  The  new  

bished Louisiana Superdome for the all eight home games. So even if this turns out to be a season more about potential than immediate results, it will have been a suc­cess both in terms of team finances and for a community that wanted to show the NFL it was right to remain loyal to New Orleans in the city's weak­est moments. 
"The real story is the fans, the people that lived through this terrible tragedy and returned to the Superdome in record numbers," said Saints owner Tom Benson, who in recent years has upset many of those same fans by questioning the city's long-term prospects for supporting and NFL team. 
An on-field turnaround like that of 2000, when then-new 
right tackle is 
Jonathan Stinch­

comb, a fourth­year pro who rarely played in his first two seasons and missed all of last year with a ruptured patellar tendon. 
Although veteran guard Jermane Mayberry returned to practice from a shoulder injury shortly before Week 1, Payton jettisoned him to injured reserve. In his former spot is Jahri Evans, a 6-foot-4, 318­pound rookie out of Bloomsburg -a program that hasn't exactly been an incuba­tor of NFL talent. 
"Things got started fast for me. I was thrown in there," Evans said. "But if your tech­nique is good and you put your­self in good position, good things will happen.... I think I'll be all right." 
Waterford Estates Lodge has rooms available for remaining home football weekends. 


ater or 
estates lodge 
www.waterfordestateslodge.com 
877-783-8496 
Waterford Estates Lodge is located at 52890 S. R. 933,just north ofthe Notre Dame campus. We arejust minutes from downtown South Bend and the South Bend Regional Airport. 

Waterford Estates Lodge is also your destination for pre-and post-game p8rties. · 



OUNDTHE 
ATION 
page 26 CoMPH.ED FROfv\ THE ()BSERVER'S \V1RF SFRVlCES Friday, September 8, 2006 
I 
~ 
~ 
1 
·~ 
·\ 
~ 
i '• ~ 
I~ 
:) 
·~ 
·~ :~ 
I 
I r 
i 
f ' 
~ ~ 
j 
~ ~ 
II 'i
tl 
1/
•I 
~ 
·~ 
",:
,, 
i 
·i 
NCAA Football  
APTop 25  
team  record  
1  Ohio State  1-0  
2  Texas  1-0  
3  usc  1·0  
4  NOTRE DAME  1-0  
5  Auburn  1-0  
6  West Virginia  1·0  
7  Florida  1-0  
8  lSU  1-0  
9  Florida State  1·0  
10  Michigan  1·0  
11  Tennessee  1-0  
12  Georgia  1·0  
13  louisville  1·0  
14  Iowa  1·0  
15  Oklahoma  1·0  
16  Virginia Tech  1-0  
17  Miami (Fla.)  0-1  
18  Clemson  1-0  
19  Penn State  1-0  
20  Oregon  1·0  
21  Nebraska  1·0  
22  CaJifornia  0·1  
23  TCU  1·0  
24  Texas Tech  1·0  
25  Arizona State  1•0  
NCAA Football  
Coaches Top 25  
team  record  
t  Ohio State  1-0  
2  Texas  t.:o  
3  usc  1-0  
4  Auburn  1-0  
5  NOTRE DAME  1-0  
&  West Virginia  1-0  
7  Florida  1-0  
8  LSU  1-0  
9  Florida State  1-0  
10  Ofdahoma  1-0  
11  Georgia  1-0  
12  Louisville  1-0  
13  Michigan  1·0  
14  Virginia Tech  1·0  
15  Iowa  1-0  
16  Miamllfla.)  0-1  
17  Tennessee  1-0  
18  Clemson  1-0  
19  Penn State  1-0  
20  Oregon  1~0  
21  Nebraska  1-0  
22  TCU  1-0  
23  California  0-1  
24  Texas Tech  1·0  
25  Alabama  l-0  


previous 
1 3 6 2 4 5 7 8 11 14 23 15 13 16 10 17 12 18 19 21 20 9 22 25 
24 

previous 
1 
2 
3t 
6 
3t .7 
8 9 10 5 14 13 15 16 17 11 23 18 19 20 22 21 12 25 24 

MIAA Volleyball Standings 
team  league  Olterall  
1  Alma  1-0  3·2  
2  Calvin  1·0  5·0  
3  Hope  1-0  3·2  
4  SAINT MARY'S  1·1  5·1  
5  Tri-State  1·1  2·3  
6  Adrian  0·0  3·2  
7  Kalamazoo  0-0  2·2  
8  Olivet  0·1  0·5  
9  Albion  0·2  1·4  

around the dial 
TENNIS 

U.S. Open, 10 a.m., CBS 
MLB Los Angeles at New York Mets, 7:10p.m., ESPN Cleveland at Chicago White Sox, 8:30p.m., Comcast Chicago 
NCAA FOOTBALL Pittsburgh at Cincinnati, 8:00p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 


Associated Press 

PITTSBURGH, Pa.-The Pittsburgh Steelers needed two big plays from unlikely sourcBs to pull out a sea­son-opening victory behind their backup quarterback. 
Maybe Miami Dolphins coach Nick Saban should be flagged for a costly delay, too. 
Tight end Heath Miller chugged his way down the Steelers' sideline on an 87­yard touchdown pass play midway through the fourth quarter, fill-in QB Charlie Batch's third scoring pass of the game, and the Super Bowl champions beat the Dolphins 28-17 Thursday night in the NFL's first game of the season. 
Only Miller didn't really score -TV replays clearly showed him stepping out between the 2 and 1-yard lines. However, Saban waited until too late to throw his red challenge flag, which fell to the turf sight unseen behind and referee Walt Coleman watching the extra point kick. That meant the Steelers didn't have to try to get the ball into the end zone from short yardage. 
Saban apparently thought he could throw the challenge flag at any time before the kick went off. but no official saw him and thus there was no replay. And no Dolphins upset, 
IN BRIEF 

New NCAA coach of the 
year award to be added 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -A new coach of the year award based not only on wins and losses but also on the coach's contribution to society and his commu­nity was announced Friday. 
Retired sportscaster Keith Jackson, who helped announce the new award, said he likes it because it looks for the good in people. 
"I just don't think we've gowm that enough." he said. "This series is intended to bring out the reasons why these men have such a profound influ­ence." 
The award is being sponsored by Liberty .\1utual. To help promotP the new award, six prominent maches vvill be featun•d on a weekly show that will air on ABC in September. The coaches featured are: Texas' Mack Brown, Ohio State's Jim Tressel, USC's Bob Stoops, USC's Pete Carroll, Notre Dame's Charlie Weis and Georgia's Mark Richt. 
either, even though the Steelers didn't look partic­ularly sharp in their first game that counted since the Super Bowl -despite Willie Parker's 115 yards rushing, Miller's 101 yards receiving and Batch's first three-TD ·game since Nov. 18, 2001, with Detroit. 
Miami had a chance to come back, but new quar­terback ·Daunte Culpepper was intercepted on consec­utive series, with line­backer Joey Porter scoring on a 42-yard return with about three minutes left. 
"We knew we had put them in a situation where they had to pass the ball. I had my chance to make the play and I made it," Porter said. 
Porter was so excited, he ran to the sideline and kissed coach Bill Cowher on the cheek -the Steelers' first known side­line kiss since Cowher planted one on Kordell Stewart during a 1997 comeback victory in Baltimore. 
''I'd go to war for him," Porter said. 
The Dolphins. trying to build oiT the momentum of their six consecutive victo­ries to end last season, never led until Ronnie Brown scored on a 5-yard run to make it 17-14 in the third quarter. safety Tyrone Carter's slip, to set up the score. 

Purdue loses Ingraham due 
to ineligibility 
WEST lAFAYETTE, Ind. -Purdue lost wide receiver Kyle Ingraham for the season on Thursday, but gained safety Terrell Vinson. 
Ingraham, a 6-foot-9 senior, was declared ineligible by Purdue after the school investigated classes he took at St. Mary's University in San Antonio this past winter. He sat out last Saturday's game against Indiana State. 
"I attended St. Marys Lniversity last spring knowing I had to take care of business and, despite my best inten­tions. I did not do it," Ingraham said in a statement through the school. "I take full rPsponsibility. I apologize to my family and my tPammates and to all the fans of Purdue football." 
Purdue coach Joe Tiller said in a statement he is disappointed with the results of the school's investigation, the details of which were not released. 
Uecker gets restraining
order on crazed fan 
MilWAUKEE -A woman accused of stalking Hall of Fame baseball announc­er Bob Uecker must stay away from him for four years under a restraining order issued Thursday that bars her from attending any game he broadcast-;. 
A court commissioner issued the order after Ann Ladd testified that that she would not have further contact with UeckPr but still hoped to attend Milwaukee Brewers games. 
''I'm a Brewnr, a Brewer fan," said Ladd, 45, of Prospect Heights, IlL She declined to comment after the court proceeding. Uecker and his attornt>y also declined to comment. 
Uecker, 72, has contendC'd that Ladd ha.o.; been stalking him for six or seven years. sending unwanted gifts and appearing at ballparks and hotels throughout the country. He said in court filings that she had been approaching him a.<>king for his help with her charity work. 
Friday, September 8, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
GOLF 

Wie plays poorly in Euro Masters 
Hawaiian trails by 12 strokes after first round in Switzerland 
Associated Press 
CRANS-SUR-SIERRE, Switzerland -Michelle Wie shot a 7-over 78 Thursday in the first round of the European Masters, hurting her chances of making the cut in the men's event. 
The 16-year-old from Hawaii was 12 shots behind clubhouse leaders Anthony Wall, Robert Coles and David Carter, who finished at 5-under 66. Defending champion Sergio Garcia, who has a summer home near the course, shot a 68. 
Wie was paired with Nick Dougherty of England, who shot 79, and Gonzalo Fernandez­Casiano of Spain, who had a 70. Playing in her 1Oth men's event, Wie struggled around the Alpine layout and failed to make many putts _ particularly on the crucial par-3s. 
. "I had trouble on the par 3s today," Wie said. "That's what rea.llv killed me 5 over on the par 3s. I didn't-play that bad the rest of the round. I felt like I played pretty solidly." 
Wie consistently hooked shots to the left, leaving tough second shots around the hilly course. 
"My tee shots were a little erratic," she said. "And I'll work on a few more bunker shots. I didn't really have my rhythm today in my short game. Hopefully it will come back to me tomorrow." 
Her worst round playing a men's tournament came earlier this year in the Sony Open, where she opened with a 9-over 
79. She responded with a 68 in the second round but missed the cut by four strokes. 
Garcia, the only European Ryder Cup player in the field, was content with his 68. 
"It was a good round," Garcia said. "The course is really firm and with these small greens, which have a lot of undulations and fall off from the sides, it is so difficult to get the perfect distance control." 
Wie made her only cut play­ing against men earlier this year at the SK Telecom Open in South Korea, finishing 12 shots off the lead. Wie is playing in her first European Tour event. Laura Davies is the only other woman to play on the European Tour, finishing next to last in the 2004 ANZ Championship. 
STUDENTS 
Transportation Services will be offering two Driver Training Sessions in September. 
If you have not attended a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented vehicle, you must attend a Driver Training session BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday, September 101h, at 7:00pm and at 8:00pm in Room 102 of Debartolo Hall. 
The session will last approximately 30 minutes. Please bring your drivers license and a pen 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, faculty, and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. See our website at: transportation.nd.edu 
Ifyou lzave any questions on the Driver Training sessions or t/1e Motor Poolyou may contact Transportation Services at 631-6467 
Looking for a career instead of just a job? 
We're RSM McG!adreyr the professional sen;kes firm for f.HH::qJ~e on tfH? tfiOVt~ 1 wHh ovt'tr 7~000 of the brightest minds In the industqr. '\A!Hh a focus on midsize companies, 
··~.t{-)f "'2f•""'V''<,f'f~ u;"-;8,p_,.k.,t;o, K:>,;,tW~i"''w''f'f;::i; lfti'... ""*""iCJ,{f· -<-r._
,,-._.._. p. ~v< ,....,_,;,;; ~.·»l~\~uil-. l~;< '6'<"'·.}-'V·~Y 'Mj C»"-''~'''""''f "·''--'" 
the chaHenges. and rewards of devefoplng irmovativt:t soitrHons to enhance our cHents~ businesses. Want a career that~s chaHenging and inspiring~ inshBad of nHl*Of4he«mm? Learn rnr.ue at rsmmcg!adrey.eom. 
RSM McGiadrey

ACCOUNTING • TAX • BUSINESS CONSULTING 

Friday, September 8, 2006

page 28 The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 
Bengals seek revenge in Kansas City Sunday 


With Palmer back, Cincinnati opens season against Chiefs 
I~ 
,. 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -If Marvin Lewis is mad at the Kansas City Chiefs, he's not let­ting on. Leave that to Rudi Johnson. 
Still fresh in the mind of Cincinnati's star running back are bitter memories of KC hold­ing a 30-3 lead in the final three minutes but still chucking pass­es into the end zone, and hitting one. 
"It left a bad taste in our mouth," said Johnson. "Nobody's forgotten that game." 
Now eight months later and buoyed by Carson Palmer's remarkable recovery from reconstructive knee surgery, the Bengals will open the season Sunday in the very stadium and against the very team that mauled them 37-3 in last year's regular-season finale. 
The Chiefs had already been shut out of the playoffs because of Pittsburgh's victory that day over Detroit. But in Dick Vermeil's fina1 game as head coach. they wanted to see Trent Green get 4,000 yards passing and Larry Johnson erase the team rushing record. 
So they kept pouring on the fire and, at the Bengals' expense, both did. Green's 4,014 yards made him the fourth quarterback in NFL his­tory to post three consecutive 4,000-yard seasons. Johnson 
ELlA'S 

MediterTanean Cuisine: 
~--~~~~~------~-----­
Open: Tues.-Sat. 1 lam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. andMon. closed) Dine-In • Talee-Out • Catering --------.-·--·~.....------­We otTer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North (574) 277-7239 South Be1'11t IN 46637 

: ~ 
,J ' ( 
We are located in Rosdand area. near Pendle Road on 3 I 
' )
' (
' i
' (
' I ' )( 
( ) 
' 

Wanted: Old paintings by Indiana artistsand Notre D•artists. 
• Clear Coat

OFF 
• Premium Soft Cloth Wash
OUR 

• Polish-n-Seaier Wax Applied 
• 2-Step Underbody



BEST 


,, Protectant 

52694 State Road 933 South Bend, lnd1ana 46637
• Spot-Free 

Rinse Offer good at the South Bend location only 
;wASH
.. 
• f 
had 201 yards and three TDs and a team-record 1.750 yards. 
"We've had this game marked on our calendar for a year," said Johnson. "We're looking forward to going out there and putting on a great show." 
Nonsense, says Lewis. 
"They're a different football team coached by a different person than last year," said the Bengals coach. "We're a differ­ent team. They're a different team. This is a new season." 
In Kansas City's defense, the Bengals had already wrapped up their first playoff berth since 1990 and Palmer and many other starters played only a few series. 
Nevertheless, it stung. 
"They scarred us for 200 yards," said defensive end Bryan Hobinson. "We know what they did to us last year. We know what they're capable of doing. They punched us in the mouth." 
But as Chiefs defensive end Jared Allen points out, Vermeil has been replaced by Herm Edwards and Edwards that day was not within 1,000 miles of Kansas City. 
"That has nothing to do with us," he said. "That's the coach's decision. He's the one calling plays. We're out here to win. We're trying to score as many points as possible and hold their defense from scoring as few points as possible. 
"Last time I checked, foot­ball's not a sport about compas­sion, it's a sport about knocking heads together and the best man's going to win. So that's between the coaches, if they felt that way. We're just out there playing what's called." 
Palmer, injured in the first few minutes of the Bengals' playoff loss to Pittsburgh, thrilled Cincinnati's fans the way he rebounded from an injury that some felt might end his career. A perfect 4-0 presea­son record, Cincinnati's first, also has fans looking forward to a second straight division title. 
The Bengals, for the third straight year, also return every offensive starter. Acquisitions of massive defensive tackle Sam Adams and safety Dexter Jackson could strengthen a defense that gave up almost 400 yards a game. 
Under Edwards, the Chiefs have also made a big effort to shore up a leaky defense. The offense that led the league from 2001-05 with 30,470 yards and 262 touchdowns probably will not be the same, either. Gone are several key operatives, including left tackle Willie Roaf, running back Priest Holmes and fullback Tony Richardson. 
One person who laments the way the Chiefs behaved last Jan. 1 is also one of Lewis' good friends. "There are certain times in a football game where you know that the game is over. You know it and the other team knows it," Edwards said. 
Told that Lewis and Palmer both insisted they're not at all concerned with that loss, Edwards merely smiled. 
"I would hope they wouldn't tell you guys what they're going to try to do," he said. "l would hope they're smarter than that." 
Friday, September 8, 2006 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 29 

MISS THE ROCKNE EXI·IIBIT 
ANDYOU~LL 
HEAR ABOUT IT. 
To con1mernorate the 75th anniversary of Knute Rockne's tragic death; the Northern Indiana Center for History proudly presents the most extensive exhibit ever developed on this legendary Notre Dame football coach. 
On view are photographs, clothing, letters, 
telegrams, original newspapers, the Rockne 
autornobile and n1any artifacts never before 
shown publicly. 
• 


ROCKNE 
CROSSING THF. I.AST 
Cl-IALK LINE 
Opening Saturday, May 27 
Northern Indiana Center for History 808 \X1est Washington, South Bend 
(574) 235-9664 
www.centerforhistory.co1n 
MAJOR EXHIBIT SPONSORS 
1st Source Bank, Baker & Daniels LLP, Interlogic Outsourcing, Inc./ Najeeb an~ Nancy Khan,. Rex and Alice A. Martin Foundation, Tina and Andy Nickle, St. Joseph Regional Medical Center, South Bend Tribune, WSBT Radio Group 
NFL 
Rhodes set to finally start 
Colts running back eager to step in for the departed James 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Dominic 
Rhodes' last meaningful start 
came five years ago. 
So if he gets a queasy stom­
ach Saturday night, chalk it up 
to the nervousness anyone in 
Rhodes' shoes would expect. 
All Rhodes must do Sunday 
night, in prime time, is show a 
national television audience 
he's a capable replacement for 
the Colts' career franchise 
rushing leader _ Edgerrin 
James. 
"I don't know what the coach­
es got in store," Rhodes said. 
"But whatever opportunity the 
coaches give me, I'm going to 
take advantage of." 
Rhodes has waited what 
seems an eternity for this 
chance. 
In 2001, he was one of those 
Colts' finds _ an undrafted free 
agent out of tiny Midwestern 
State in Texas who impressed 
coaches enough in training 
camp to make the team. 
By the opening game, he was No. 2 on the depth chart. By Week 7. after James tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee, Rhodes was the Colts' starter. He finished that season rushing for 1,104 yards, an NFL record for undrafted rookies, and nine touchdowns. 
The next year he planned to help James ease back into foot­ball shape while proclaiming he would one day start in the NFL. He's been waiting for his shot ever since then. 
In 2002, Hhodes tore the ACL in his right knee during training focused, I'm ready to go, and I season. camp, and spent the next three can't wait to get on the field." Rhodes insists he welcomes years logging a mere 130 car­For Rhodes, the stakes could the spotlight. ries. Instead, Hhodes was rele­not be higher. "I think it (the Manning Bowl) gated primarily to kick return Indy used its first-round draft is great for the NFL, and our duty as James helped the Colts' pick on LSU's Joseph Addai, a team," he said. "I think most of offense continue chugging definite signal to the incumbent us will look back and remember along. The only start he's had he would be challenged in it because it is so hyped. As since '0 1 was last season's training camp. long as we stay focused, I think meaningless finale against He starts behind Peyton we'll be all right." Arizona when the Colts didn't Manning, the face of opening While Rhodes will likely get play their regulars. weekend's most hyped the most carries against the 
But when James left for matchup, and he's playing on Giants, he won't get them all. Arizona as a free agent in center stage _ in New York one The Colts also plan to use March, Rhodes, 27, knew his day before the fifth anniversary Addai although coach Tony opportunity had finally come. of the Sept. 11 attacks. Dungy hasn't said how the Sunday night against New York, Of course, he also must Colts' new partnership will he'll show America what he can endure the endless comparisons work. do. to James, who ran for 9,226 "I think every week will be 
"It's exciting," he said. "It's yards in eight seasons and different," Dungy said. "One something I've been waiting for helped the Colts reach the play­guy may be hot and we'll give and anticipating for a while. I'm offs every time he finished the him the ball more. It just kind 


of depends, but I envision both 
playing and contributing." 
Addai may not be under the same intense glare Sunday night, but this will be his NFL debut and the Colts' ground game was sluggish during the preseason. 
Fans expect big things from Addai, and next week, Addai plays in front of his hometown crowd in Houston. A good per­formance would give him some momentum before heading home. 
Dungy and team president Bill Polian also have been cautious with their soft-spoken rookie, ­warning against the inevitable comparisons between Addai and James who are built almost exactly the same. 
"Coming into the NFL there is a lot of pressure, but I under­stand what I can do and Dom knows what he can do," Addai said. "The key is getting it done. I know what I can do." 
NFL 




Owens and Cowboys prepare for first game 
Controversial wide receiver's impact felt even before team tangles with Jaguars Stfnday in Jacksonville 

Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas -No matter what Terrell Owens does for the Dallas Cowboys this season, he's already been worth every penny. 
Look at the jump in ticket sales. 
Check out how many juicy TV time slots the Cowboys have this season. 
Better yet, count up all the No. 81 jerseys the club has sold. 
The excitement generated by "the player," as coach Bil1 Parcells usually refers to Owens, is amazing. Even Deion Sanders didn't generate the buzz T.O. has, and Prime Time arrived back when the co·wboys were winning Super Bowls. 

''I'm very fortunat~ for the opportunity that the Cowboys have given me," said Owens, who will make his Dallas debut Sunday in Jacksonville. 
"This is a team that I felt when I looked at the market that's been kind of on the edge of making the playoffs," he said. "I think with the addition of myself and a couple of guys on the team, we can get ourselves
:~ 
where we need to be."
•) 
·~ 
The combination of this play­er on this team with this coach
\~ 
has unleashed all kinds of hope and hype. Jones knows it, too,
::~ 
but he's not bragging. Not yet, at least.
k See, Jones insists he signed 
'I~~ 
f " r 
Owens strictly to help the
~r 
~~ Cowboys win. And it's not just~·,) rhetoric.
p 
As a former oil wildcatter, the f< only thing Jones likes more 
}.: 
than winning getting to say "I 
~~ 
} 
(.1
,)
AI 
i) 
ATHLETIC TRAINING & 
:.~ 
; 
SPORTS MEDICINE 
f 
)~ 
There will be a meeting for any 
Notre Dame freshman students 
~ 
I) 
interested in the student athletic 
z
)} ,­
~~ 
training program. 
~ 
)~ 
··~ 
The meeting will be held on Monday,
·~ 
September 11th, at 4:15p.m. in the Joyce Center Athletic Training Room. 
~ 
~ 
It 
N ~ 
t
.~ 
}/ 
)) 
For more information
$''~
Jt i 'I 
please visit our website
~t ~~ 
www.nd.edu/-ndsat06/
~-t 
(~
(I 
(~
,.., 
~z 
(II 
~~~ 
:z 
11, .. ~ ~ 
~t
'X
~ i; 
$~
,1~
!Ill ;II 
~~; 
Friday, September 8, 2006

page 30 The Observer + SPORTS 
His first six months with the ...coulrJ:o.'t__f.lJ1c;i,a yellow jersey), ·. Owens surely realizes this is Cowboys already have had the Owet\s was.back on th~ field the ''"'Jiis last chance to avoid being 
told you so" after winning. He's already gotten that thrill once in the NFL, when he and Jimmy .Johnson became back-to-hack champions only a few years after being branded fools for the way they were rebuilding "America's Team." Be believes this gambit will let him say it again. 
"When we won those Super Bowls, it was fabulous beyond description," Jones said. "What really made it so entertaining was how critical the sports world had been about what we'd done with the Dallas Cowboys over the years before. It was the contrast, the dynam­ics, that made it so great." 
So when Owens became avail­able. Jones didn't hold a grudge against the receiver for having celebrated two touchdowns on the team's midfield logo during a game six years ago. "I was thinking about the touchdowns before he went to the star," Jones said. 
Owens' ability is seldom an issue. When happy and healthy, he's probably the best receiver going. 
He combines the reliable hands of a possession receiver like Keyshawn Johnson, his predecessor in Dallas, with the big-play ability of fellow wide­out Terry Glenn. Best of all, he can do both on one play, taking a short pass and turning it into a long touchdown. 
Look back to his last regular­season game. Owens caught three passes for 154 yards, including a 91-yard touchdown that started as a 3-yard pass to the sideline, then turned into the longest play of his career after he juked past Champ Bailey, one of the NFL's top cor­
m~rbacks. 
But the reason Owens hasn't played since that day in Denver -way back on Oct. 30­underscores why no matter how great he performs, his talent is rarely the first thing people talk about. 
Fed up with gripes over his contract, squabbles with Donovan McNabb and other indiscretions, the Philadelphia Eagles dumped Owens before the next game. They even got lawyers involved to make sure he never returned. 
Although team officials knew what they were getting into when they acquired him in 2004, and despite Owens almost leading them to their first Super Bowl title in February 2005, the breakup was so harsh that Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie was still filled with spite this sum­mer. 
"Nobody should be able to be as disruptive and real1y cut the energy of the team down," Lurie said. 
Philadelphia released Owens in March. Four days later, he signed a three-year, $25 million deal with Dallas. He got a $5 million signing bonus and another $5 million in salary for this season -more money in 2006 than he would've gotten under his deal with the Eagles. 

and released his second autobi-Back in Dallas, Owens was ography shortly before training fined $9,500 for being late to camp. Less than a week into work -"I overslept," he practices, he had a hamstring explaine.. d _ but healed in time injury that looked like no big to play in the preseason finale. deal on an MRI, yet bothered He's practiced all this week him enough to fly in several and, coincidence or not, things specialists. seem to be smoothing out just 
After mocking his time on the in time for the opener. stationary bike by dressing up "Everybody is on the same as a member of Lance page at this point," Owens said Armstrong's cycling team (he Wednesday. 
ups and downs that, at this following week, only to go down point, should be expected. again soon after. He blamed He was excused from most of coaches for pushing him too the team's offseason training hard. 

WELCOME F.ANS & FAMILIES! GOOD LUCK CHARLIE! GO IRISH! 
~ {){MIMn fit'./ti Bat/
-~ --':.1
574 256-1444 
Fine Italian Dining 
1213 Uncoln Way W. Ml•hawaka (Just West OfThe 100 c..ter) Italian & American Cuisine 
permanently labeled "more trouble than he's worth." At 65, Parcells is far more interested in winning games than person­ality clashes. And Jones is ready to play peacemaker, if neces­sary, because he so desperately wants this to work. 
"I think we're in a situation where we kind of need each other," Owens said. 
Parcells has mostly steered clear of Owens, a cautious approach indicating he'd rather say nothing than the wrong thing. 
Owens, however, actually wants a relationship with Parcells. He wants the mind games, a taunting nickname and whatever other verbal jabs Parcells uses to get the most out of his players. 
"I've always kind of, in a strange way, wanted a coach like Parcells, somebody that can really in a sense get to know me and then understand me and 
what makes me go," Owens 
said. 
"I think in due time, Bill and I, we will get better with our rela­tionship." 


li'" 
~~ 
)/' 
" 
II: 
FREE PizZA CurrER To THE FIRST 500 FANS 
:$ ~ ,I SUNDAY, SEPT. 10TH@ 
·!I 
:~ 7:00PM vs. DEPAUL 
t.I 
1)/ 
•II FREE SCHEDULE GLASS TO THE FIRST.
'" 
!f 250 FANS 
~...; 
I• 
I I I I I I I 
I;• t •' 
':
': 
' 
L 


Friday, September 8, 2006 page 31 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

/
,.._._._ 
~­
...... 
' 

Friday, September 8, 2006
page 32 The Observer + SPORTS 
.' 
: > I'• 

; ·'' 
.'.·· 

-
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
NBA 

Former Pistons guard
Playko, Belles sweep Olivet 
ent-ers Hall of Fame 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Editor 
It was easy as one, two, three for Saint Mary's in its home open­er Thursday night. 
Behind the 18 kills of senior Kristen Playko, Saint Mary's beat MIM foe Olivet in straight sets at the Angela Athletic Center to improve to 5-1 on the season. Playko also added 12 digs on defense for the Belles. 
Freshman outside hitter Lorna Slupczynski and sophomore mid­dle block Cathy Kurczak added eight kills each, and senior Ann Carpenter had seven. 
The defensive star of the night was Belles senior Anne Cusack, who finished with 26 digs in the victory. 
The win came two days a(ter Saint Mary's four-game, season­opening winning streak came to an end against Hope. 
"A win always brings the team's morale up," Carpenter said. "We had a great turnout from students and staff-lots of positive support." 
Carpenter had just one error on 18 total attempts to go along with her seven kills. 
Slupczynski led the team in effi­ciency, converting on eight of her 14 attempts while committing just two errors. 
Outside hitter Kim Travis led Olivet with nine kills and two errors on 30 attempts for a .233 attack percentage. 
But it wasn't nearly enough for the Comets, who fell30-19, 30-28 and 30-25. 

"The intensity was high throughout the entire match, which lead to a solid three-out-of­five game win," Carpenter said. 
Next up for Saint Mary's is the Baldwin-Wallace Tournament in Berea, Ohio. Saint Mary's plays today at 3 p.m. against Lake Erie and then at 5 p.m. against Case Western Reserve. The Belles fin­ish round-robin play Saturday at noon again.'it John· Carroll, with a fourth game later in the day to be determined based on how the team fares. 
Carpenter said the win Thursday was c,rucial for the 
100 percent comfortable and happy with the route I've taken." 
Detroit drafted Dumars with the 18th pick overall in 1985, and the skinny, unknown shooting guard from McNeese State spent his entire 14-year career with Pistons -the longest any player has played for the franchise. 
"What's great about only playing for one team is that when people think about your career, they don't have to piece it together," he said. "They don't have to say, 'What did he do there?' or 'Did he win a title there?' If people think about my career, they only think about the Pistons, and I like that." 
Dumars, elected in his sec­ond year of eligibility, might not be a Hall of Fame player because of any one facet of his game, but his versatility earned him a spot among the game's all-time stars. 
"Nobody deserves it more than Joe," Pistons owner Bill Davidson said. 
Michael Jordan has said Dumars was the toughest defender to score against in the NBA, helping him earn a spot on the All-Defensive team four times. The shoot­ing guard averaged a rela­tively modest 16.1 points and 4. 5 assists. 

Belles after the loss to Hope. 
"(The win] definitely helps boost [the] team's confidence before a big tournament," she said. 
Notes: 
+ It was Playko's sixth straight game with 10 or more kills to start the season. She had 15 in the team's season-opening win against Albion, 17 against Tri­State, 14 against Goshen, 12 ver­sus Huntington and 13 in the loss to Hope. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1@nd.edu 
Associated Press 

DETROIT -Joe Dumars is going into the Basketball Hall of Fame just as he played ­under the radar. 
Making all the noise, draw­ing all the attention Friday night will be two other inductees -Charles Barkley and Dominique Wilkins. Barkley, no doubt, will have the most entertaining speech. Wilkins will monopolize the highlight tapes. 
Dumars plans to stay nice and quiet, in keeping with the way he acted as a player and conducts himself as the Detroit Pistons' president of basketball operations. 
"It's only befitting that I go in with a couple guys like Charles and Dominique because it typifies my 14 years in the NBA," Dumars said in an interview with The Associated Press this week. "And it's absolutely the way I would prefer to go into the Hall of Fame." 
Unlike Barkley and Wilkins, Dumars was an NBA champi­on. He was the MVP of the 1989 NBA finals and helped Detroit repeat the next year. 
"The three of us are getting to the same mountain top as players, using three different routes," Dumars said. "You're either a Hall of Farner based on champi­onships or numbers, and I'm 

' 
' -r 
' I 
L ' ' : 

Friday, September 8, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS page 33 
Brown said that the biggest Stasiuk. 
improvement she saw during Kaelin leads the Irish in kills the Invitational was the team's this season with 84 -4.42 continued from page 36 offensive capability -which kills per game -and had 60 
increased each match when in last weekend's four match­the tournament, is usually a faced with tougher opponents. es. tournament team, so I think The development of her hit­The freshman hitter blasted that all three matches are ter's shqts were also a positive a season team high 24 kills in going to all be equally impor­to Brown -the variety that her collegiate premiere tant. the team achif'ved with its against Bowling Green and 
All three teams are going to shot placement is something again against ~issouri. She be strong she would collected 21 in action against candidates to like to see Valparaiso and 12 against be NCAA "'We're getting continue and Idaho. The young team flexed teams at the better physically, improve this its offensive muscle in its first end of the weekend. five -games, but Brown would 
UNI 
understanding the flow of
season." "We're get­like to see more attention paid 
The Irish the game better. ting better to the other side of the ball in (3-2) are understanding each other all the time," the Northern Iowa coming off a she said. Invitational.
on the court better., . 
finish in the Shamrock Invitational at the Joyce Center. 
The team defeated both un­ranked Valparaiso Friday and Idaho Saturday morning by 3­1 margins, but lost 3-2 to No. 13 Missouri in its final Invitational match Saturday afternoon. 
The Irish were then shutout 3-0 by No. 6 Santa Clara Sunday in a regular-season match. 
Texas 
continued from page 36 
does not plan on rushing them into action after missing time with the team. In their absence the Irish have outscored their opponents 16­2, as junior forward and Top Drawer Soccer National Player of the Week Amanda 
Kansas State (6-1) rides a five-match win streak into the Invitational. including a four­match sweep of the Varney's Kansas State Invitational. 
The Wildcats have dropped only one game during the win streak and have lost only five games on the season. 
Northern Iowa (5-3) is near­ly flawless at home. Since it opem~d in 1990, the Panthers are l?'i'-10 (.947) at West Gym and hold the NCAA's second­longest home win streak -7 4 straight wins -from 1997­2004. 
The Panthers are the only team in the Invitational to not have qualified for the 2005 NCAA Tournament. 
Notre Dame lost to Wisconsin 3-2 in the round of 16, while Alabama fell :~-1 in the first round to No. 20 Ohio. Kansas State was swept 3-0 by Florida in the second round. 
"It's going to be tough again," Brown said of the Invitational. "I think it's very similar to this past weekend. We don't have two ranked teams, but the other teams are all as strong if not stronger than Idaho and Valparaiso." were." 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
ing the flow 
of the game better, understanding eaeh other on the court better." 
Freshman Christina Kaelin was an integral part of the offensive unit and was rewarded for her work with Big East rookie of the week honors Monday. 
She is the third Irish player to ever win the award twice in a season, along with Mary Leffers, Lauren Kelbley and current junior Adrianna 
our position on the floor need­ed rPtinement." 
Alabama (4-2) enters the tournament after being blanked by Wisconsin­Milwaukee in the finals of the Hampton Inn Barna Bash. 
The Crimson Tide is led by junior middle blocker Crystal Hudson who has collected 86 kills in 21 games. 
Sophomores Amy Pauly and Sarah Snider provide the backbone on defense with 68 and 52 digs, respectively. 
ed coaching career. 
"He was a coaching men­tor," Waldrum said. "I learned a lot from him in terms of education." 
Sunday the pupil brings his No. 1 unit to Westcott Field seeking to deny the teacher a chance for his 50th victory at SMU. But Waldrum is expect­ing a battle. . "They lost to North Carolina early this year f3-0]." Waldrum said. "And I know him well enough that he knows you have to win some big games early on to get to the NCAA. so I know they're going to be hungry for this one. 
"They're going to be a very difficult team. Athletically they're going to be tough." 
While the eyes of Texas will be upon the Irish this week­end, everyone else will get the opportunity next Tuesday when CSTV replays Sunday's match at 8 p.m. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
Rosenthal Stadium at half­time of the 7 p.m. start. 
While the Irish are 51-5-2 all time when playing with the NCSAA top ranking, Friday's match in Fort Worth will also mark the first time TCU faces a No. 1 foe since the school kept those records in 1999. 
Considering all the elements in play, the Irish expect a hot, 
electric atmos­
phere in the 
"As a team this is going to be [TCU 's] biggest game of the season," Lorenzen said. "They're going to have a brand new stadium and they are expecting to sell it out. Our coaches always talk about how being number one puts a target on your back, but at the same time, with our younger players it's kind of exciting and wiJI l}elp to fuel them hopefully." 
Following Friday night's bout, 
Cinalli led Notre "As a team. this is Friday night the Irish will remain in the Dame to a 3-1 Texas heat. Dallas-Fort Worth area to play
going to be TCU's
win over then "It's probably unranked SMU (2-1-1) Sunday, co-No. 1 Santa biggest game of going to be like as Waldrum tries to upend Clara with two the season ... in Mississippi Mustang coach and personal goals and an where its 95 mentor John Cossaboon. assist. Junior degrees at Before coaching NCAA tour­
Kim Lorenzen
keeper Lauren night." Waldrum nament teams at San Diego Karas has also Irish defender said. "There's and UC Santa Barbara, 
earned the starting nod in the net after posting two wins last weekend. 
The Horned Frogs (2-2) will welcome the Irish for the first meeting between the two schools by dedicating the brand new lights in Garvey-
going to be a 
record crowd from everything I've heard, indicating that we're going into a hostile renvironment]." 
According to Notre Dame captain Kim Lorenzen, it's an environment the Irish are looking forward to. 
Cossaboon was the director of coaching for the North Texas State Soccer Association from 1982-90, while Waldrum was coaching youth soccer in Dallas. It was then that Cossaboon got Waldrum involved in ODP training and kicked off Waldrum's decorat­






THURSDAY Kick off your football weekend! Two ND-Penn State Tickets will be given away free at midnight 
Show Student ID-No Cover Win $50 Club 22 Gift Cards Live "Otis" from U 93 (10:00 PM-midnight) 
FRIDAY Live music outside on the patio DJ Inside from 12:00-3:00 AM 
-

SATURDAY In-House DJ-Dance all night long From 9:00 PM-3:00 AM (No Cover 9:00-11:00 PM) 
COME Our AND SEE WHAT EVERYONE IS TALKING ABOtrr! 
50827 Princess Way, Granger (formerly the Sports Page) 




~:\ 
\~< 
II \'• ,,. I.;,/
,., 
\' 
\' \' 
~; 
1
It·· 
'~· 
f: ' 
; -· 
~ ,·,·; 
I ~ ,_ 
L 
~ ;:
i.. 
r..···
z... 
~~ 
r.l,
F.~ 
,. 
l : 
' 
·.
.,,\s 
·~ \ ' 
~~ 
.~~ 
"'-\ I
,., 
t. 
0:: \ 'i' 
~ ·.. 
~.~ 
'·:i
' ' 
I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I 
. ~
I 
I >~
r[~$
•) ' 
~I~;
1 II~
r) 
'~~ ;: ~?.~ 
.; ~: 
:· ~­
.. i 
' . 
' '
J
.•'· 
~~ ~ 
j ;y 
%;~: i, 'l
}f 
.. ~~-:r ~ 
'·)) ...~ )'t 
lit 
~t
II. 'iII. 
ill 
·~t: 
it.'
., ;,· 
·-: ,. 
'': ,. 
·,·' ); 
"J, ) )I J (• 
"t" 
~~ ..
s:; 
:~ -·~ 
I
·;. ., 
I,, 
>I• 
,. 
:$ : 
l'l~ ,. 
:'/. 
li 
;r• 
; 
'i' 
1
;L. 
-~-: 
,f t:. 
; ·.·, 
it I 
):i 
i 
·~ l 
~t
(I' 
X'
~' 
·~-~ ,...
J)'
!l 
11;
'VI 
r ~) ~ 

Aquinas 
continued from page 36 

Senior captain Meaghan Herbst said running in a pack will help. 
"The pack in the front is much larger this year, which is very promising," she said. "The front group last year only had about three girls, and this year there should be about five or six that are con­sistent." 
Junior Megan Gray led the team with a 21:16 at the Alumnae meet, followed by Sara Otto, Katie White and Kelly Biedron, who all clocked in a pack at around 21:40 on a course slightly longer than 
Big East 

continued from page 36 
cer player. 
The Irish attack and the South Florida defense match up well against each other. Lapira and senior forward Justin McGeeney have both been named Big East Offensive Players of the Week, while South Florida defenseman Kareem Smith was named Big East Defensive Player of the Week last week and has played a big role in South Florida's two shutout victories. 
On Sunday, Notre Dame will face off against DePaul (1-2-2), and Blue Demon sophomore goalkeeper Brian Visser already has two shutouts to his credit this season, both of them coming in scoreless ties . 
Senior Chris Cahill and soph­omore Andrew Quinn have been splitting time in goal for the Irish and Clark said he has not ruled out the possibility of platooning his keepers again this weekend. 
"We'll possibly split goalies again this weekend," he said. 
One of Notre Dame's primary objectives will be to change the trend of Friday night offen­sive droughts. 
''I'd like to get some more consistency," Clark said. "We haven't scored goals on the Friday night; hopefully the first game of the weekend, we can get some offensive output, and hopefully we can follow it up." 
However, Clark doesn't believe his offense, which has totaled four and five goals in their respective Sunday after­noon contests, has a serious problem. 
"I think the big thing is just to come out and play, I think we've actually played quite well in both the [Friday! games," he said. "Now we've just got to relax and finish the job off. It is very much a case of relaxing when we get into scoring positions." 
Notre Dame will face South Florida tonight at 7:30 and will play DePaul Sunday at 1:00 
p.m. Both games will take place at Alumni Field. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

the normal SK distance. 
Herbst said she would like to see the pack mentality get even stronger today. 
"I think that for the first meet, everyone was focused on individual goals," she said. "For the meet in Aquinas we should work on running as a team and staying grouped in the front. This kind of team­work, coupled with rigorous training, bodes well for the future of this team." 
Bauters said the solidifying of these packs in the front will help the Belles to better times and is a good way to close the gaps among the top seven Belle runners, which is a team goal for the Aquinas meet. 
"Personally, I would like to see our girls run together and 
t:lfjiJikL 

a concern and something we'll 
"For the meet in
be working on throughout the Aquinas we should 
season." work on running as a 
Last year at 
team and staying
the Aquinas 
Invitational, grouped in the front.·· some of the top Belles' times 
Meaghan Herbst 
were Biedron 
Belles senior 
with a posted time of 21:18, 
the team get in · better shape by the more impor­tant races later in the year especially the MIAA and NCAA champi­onships. 
"Hight now schedule, the Belles are focused on the future, specifi­cally towards the MIAA Jamboree Sept. 23 and other MIAA meets that count for conference standing points. 
Bauters said the Aquinas Invitational should be a good measuring stick for where the team is right now in compari­son to their other league com­petition. Last year, the Belles finished 5th in the MIAA league standings. 
Bauters said she sees a lot of promise in her team. 
"As early as it is, I feel good about where we are," she said. ''I'm excited to run at Aquinas this Friday." 
Contact Becki Dorner at rdorner3@nd.edu 
.... ,._ ifril:~.-------·--""-1 
I 
l 

I 
I 
~' 

pack up at Aquinas next week,·· senior Katie White said. "Shortening the time between our first runner and our seventh runner is always 
White said that early in the season the Belles do not ease up their workouts just before a meet. This makes times in early meets slower, but helps 
Otto with a 20:16 and White with a 20:42. The Saint Mary's runners said they hope to improve on those individual this year. 
we are training through our races (no tapering) so we'll be running our races tired," White said. 
Despite the tough training 
page 34 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 8, 2006 





..____________,. 

FREE CALL ME Minutes"' are not <leducted ttom package minutes aM are available only when receiving calls In your local calling area. Mobile-to-MObile rate applies to calls you make or receive to aM from other U.S. Cellular customers in your Mobile-to-Mobile calling area (see map for details). Roaming indicator on your phone must be off for Mobile-to-Mobile rates to apply. JO-Day Guarantee: Customer IS responsible for any charges incurred prior to return. All other trademarks and brand names mentioned herein are the exclusive property of their respective owners. There are additional associated charges related to downloading premium content products, such as DRIVER': VEGAS. All rights reserved. Other restrictions apply. See store for details. C2006 U.S. Cellular Corporation. 
,-'t" 
f< 
~ 
\. 
. ~ 
'-. 
,• 
/ 

-~~-~-­
;S; 
~j
~­
@l . 
• 
;-.,. 
-! 
so everyone else can too . 
Anthony Key Madison, Wisconsin Motorola RAZR V3c 

Friday, September 8, 2006 
page 35 

The Observer+ TODAY 
JOCULAR 
n,~ Dillon P,-p R,,Jk 

r.W:7.h:-e-re-ar_e_t,....he-k:-e-ys-..l IJ~LD s~mardZ!J<l dUO Poshtsznv 
GreJt <;II the Gndtron.' 
to the team bus? ; At 1,."' 1.11 u·a• ir~~ 

'-----'--, ,.:..:...=.:=JJ S<Jner on tht' Scrabblt-bo~nt 
l_ 

CROISSANTWORLD 
HEi, 'f0\.4'RE. \'ve SEEN uEn• -r\-\E C:lJ.o"N0 ? 8Ac-l( rot<. Rf:At)'\ -roo. ...,~ I 
\ t>tPNT ~ 'fa.t F~~\..\.. 
KNOW, W~TO-\ 1Nl1 U\JE Afi!!.OUI'J.D HEfl..E. "SEASON. OL-b NC) C:1 A .,._£:S 
0~ \li\P£ 1 

l 'DeNT. ' Sui\..T \-\At-Jbl ""~ OUT' ONE. lN M~ Prr I""E C::IROtTO. 'BACt..i 1\Rt> . 
\. 

ALEC WHITE 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
t::.AS\ER. '"Tb &f_ N-J Nt:> FA.N SINCE. M"i \...E...F\ ~. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
1\1IKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mika Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, 
That really I went from a to form four ordinary words. 
-
TAPAD 
I [ J I I 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
RUYLB 
j 
I CI IJtVOXCEN t 
·-· 
WHAT KIND OF OUTFIT DID SHE:

J I I J 
BUY WHE:N SHE:
www.jumble.corn 
LOST WE:IGHT?

tEDGERD I 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J [] I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Print ~ here: 



"[IIIIIIJ" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: AWOKE DRYLY QUENCH LIZARD 
Yesterday's 

Answer: The outlaws respected the artist because he was -QUICK ON THE "DRAW" 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 In a major way 1 Org. 29 How some meat 6 Things to pick dishes are 
served

10 Slew 33 Bruin teammate
14 1998's_ 
of Orr 

Report 36 Go all-out
15 Brothers' name in 1960's-70's 
37 Ste. Jeanne baseball 38 Common element of 20­
16 Prefix with distant 
and 56-Across ·and 10-and 17 The Reagans' 27-Down

daughter 40 "_Baby''
18 Thunderbolt ("Hair" song) 
thrower 41 Kid carriers
19 Degree c;ompetitor 43 1971 rock album with the
20 Where you hit "Won't Getmight get a Fouled Aoain" 
promotion 45 Temptress
22 Big name in news beginning 46 Glimpse 1925 . 47"0.K." 
23 Franken and 49 Cause of Gore hearing loss 24 Something 50 Prefix with good to shoot center 25 "Hey!" 53 Insult, comically 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~=+~~ 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
56 Something a student gets back 
59 Liable to be called 
60 Sonoma neighbor 61 Spanish girlfriend 62 Scope 63 End 64 Purplish 
65 Last Stuart monarch 
66 Puts in its place 
67 Antique guns 
DOWN 1 Puppy love providers: Abbr. 2 "60 Minutes" regular 3 Fills 
4 Dog bowl bits 5 Early American patriot_ Attucks 6 Home of the Latin Church of the Annunciation 7 "Before _ you go ... " 
8 Sensitive 9 Rolled food 
10 Place where people take orders 
11 Somewhat t:>lue 
12 Wraps 13 Puts in knots 
21 Lessons at Hog warts 
26 Mouth, slangily 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Eric Berlin 

27 It will sometimes 35 Grand finale? 51 Proselytizer's have icing target
36 Chicago suburb 28 "Gigi" composer 52 Apple products 
39 Some are sharp
30 Agree (with) 53 Author42 Compass Neale Hurston
31 Alternative to heading

Windows 54 Knowing, as a 
44 Beachwear secret
32 Editor's note 46 Express 55 Superbright
33 1999 satire of reality shows 48" Dei" 57 Sullen, after "in" 
-34 Eastern attire 50 Banned one 58 Send out 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer -­and mail to: P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name Address City ______________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Devon Sawa, 27; Corbin Bernsen, 51; Julie Kavner, 54; Gloria Gaynor, 56 
Happy Birthday: You have to work fast to take advantage of an opportunity you've been ignoring. This is a great year for love, romance and both business and personal partnerships. Get your life moving in an upward direction. Use your ingenuity and good taste and you will get ahead. Your numbers are 5, 19. 25, 28, 31,44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may have to take care of partnership issues. Don't let any dealings with institutions get put on the back burner. Don't let anyone persuade you to do things you don't feel good about. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Concentrate on taking control of your future. You'll get a chance to do something with someone you respect and admire. Someone you do business with probably has a greater interest in you than just work.*** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't sabotage yourself with far-fetched ideas. Leave your unorthodox methods on the back burner. You'll have plenty of time to implement them once everyone discovers your hidden talents. ***** CANCER (June 21-.July 22): Stop trying to please everyone. Concentrate on changing your looks, your attitude and your knowledge. Take a course or a short trip that exposes a different way of life. The results will be enlightening. ** LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): You have the stage, so do your best to get everyone to understand what you are trying to do. Explain your goals so you'll get the help you need. Talking about partnership deals and contracts will be to your advantage. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Work hard and you will get results. Being rigid is exactly what will hold you back today. Something unusual will capture the interest of someone who recognizes your talent.*** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Change is your middle name today, so don't hide 
· from a good thing. You have to take a chance if you want to be successful. The chance to meet someone wl)o can influence your future looks promising.*** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Not everyone will be on your side, but that shouldn't stop you from following through with your plans. A chance to sign a contract with a financial wizard looks promising. Renovations will tum out. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Luck may be with you and money can be made, but if you are too frivolous it will slip through your fingers. Helping others will bring future returns and build a positive reputation. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may think you have things under control, but don't be too sure or you could fall short of your expectations. Don't give out information that may be used against you in the future. Cover your tracks. ** AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Stop avoiding something that needs to be dealt with now. You will feel so much better once you put matters behind you. Love is looking positive and opportunities arr available to you. ***** · PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Incorporate much-needed change at home. Money you didn't work for will come your way. You could see an investment pay off, a tax rebate or insurance surrender. inheritance or winning. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are a peacemaker, an advocate of justice and fair play. You can see both sides of any issue. You are a leader who is creative, caring and compassionate. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidelltial consultations 


Friday, September 8, 2006 
MEN's SoccER 





Conference collisions 
Irish open Big East season at home against South Florida and DePaul this weekend 

By ERIC RETTER Associate Sports Editor 
No. 8 Notre Dame opens its Big East con­ference schedule this weekend, taking on South Florida tonight before squaring off 
'· 
.; with DePaul Sunday. 
,, 

The Irish went 1-0-1 at the Indiana/Adidas Classic last week, including a 5-4 win over No. 10 Indiana Sunday, to improve their record to 2-"1-1. Junior for­ward Joe Lapira had four goals in the game and was named tournament MVP, Big East Offensive Player of the Week and Top Drawer National Player of the Week. 
The Bulls (2-2-0) split their games last weekend at the Duke/Adidas classic, top­ping North Carolina State 2-0 before falling to the No. 9 Blue Devils 1-0. 
"South Florida has played some good teams," Irish head coach Bobby Clark said. 
The Bulls will be led by senior forward Hunter West, who has two goals this sea­son and 30 for his career. 
The Irish will be led by senior captain and All-American Greg Dalby, one of 25 listed as players to watch for the Missouri Athletic Club's Hermann Trophy, which is presented annually to the top college soc-
see BIG EAST/page 34 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
No. 1 Irish travel to Texas for two games 

Waldrum faces mentor when his squad plays SMU Sunday 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Spons Writer 
Notre Dame's No. 1 ranking will be on the line under­neath the Friday night lights of Texas, as the Irish battle unranked TCU in Fort Worth tonight in the first of two non-conference contests this weekend. 
The Irish, now 4-0 and atop both the adidas/NCSAA and Soccer Times coaches polls, will complete their first of three two-game road trips this season when they take on Southern Methodist in Dallas Sunday afternoon. 
TCU is looking for its third straight win after defeating Texas Tech 2-0 and Oral Roberts 6-2 last weekend. TCU was led by midfielders Michelle Nguyen, who scored two goals on the weekend, and Lauren Pope, who had a hat trick against the Golden 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Saint Mary's 3 Olivet 0 

The Belles evened their conference record at 1-1 this season. 
page 32 
j 
' 
Eagles. Nguyen recorded a goal and assist in each game, while Pope netted a hat trick against Oral Roberts. Though Irish coach and Irving, Texas, native Randy Waldrum said he wouldn't go over strategy with the team until today, he knows they'll need to stop 

th&t pair to be success­fuL 
"Those two kids we know pret­ty well from [high school in] Texas that 

Waldrum at some 
point in time we had on our recruiting list," Waldrum said. "They'll be more of their attacking threats." 
Notre Dame will have soph­omores midfielder/forward Brittany Bock and defender Carrie Dew back after miss­ing four games due to their participation in the U-20 World Championships in Russia -though Waldrum 
see TEXAS/page 33 
NBA 
Former Detroit Pistons guard Joe Dumars will be inducted into the Hall of Fame today. 
page 32 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
Staying alive in the Top 25 
After going 2-2 last weekend, team travels to Northern Iowa tourney 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Wri[er 
No. 23 Notre Dame trav­els to Cedar Falls, Iowa, this weekend to participate in the University of Northern Iowa Invitational -the second of three invi­tational tournaments the Irish will play in this year and their first road matches of the season. 
Notre Dame's weekend schedule includes matches against Alabama, Kansas State and Northern Iowa. Kansas State fell out of the No. 25 spot in the Sept. 4 American Volleyball Coaches Association poll ­the same poll in which the Irish fell two spots -and is now the unranked team receiving the most votes. 
"Two of the three teams are NCAA teams, so they have good experience," Notre Dame head coach Debbie Brown said. "Northern Iowa, even though they didn't make HY PHAM!The Observer 
Irish outside hitter Adrlanna Stasiuk blocks a shot during Notre see UNI/page 33 Dame's 3-0 win over Bowling Green Aug. 26. 
NFL 

Wide receiver Terrell Owens brings excitement and controversy to the Cowboys this season. 
page 31 
NFL 
Indianapolis Colts running back Dominick Rhodes prepares for his first start. 
page 31 
page 36 
SMC CROss CouNTRY 

Teamwork new plan for Belles 
Saint Mary's begins season this weekend at Aquinas Invite 
By BECK! DORNER Sports Writer 
In what is normally an indi­vidual sport, the Belles will work together today as they open the regular season at the Aquinas College Invitational in Grand Rapids, Michigan. 
Head coach Jackie Bauters said she encourages team­work amongst her runners and was pleased to see a group mentality last week at the Saint Mary's Alumnae exhibition rneet. 
"There were a few nice packs, and the girls worked together very well," she said. 
see AQUINAS/page 34 


NFL 
Pittsburgh 28 Miami 17 
The Steelers and Dolphins opened the NFL season Thursday at Heinz Field. 
page 26 
MLB 
Pittsburgh 7 Chicago Cubs 5 
Outfielder Chris Duffy hit two horne runs as the Pirates beat the Cubs. 
page 20 


page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 8, 2006 
It's time to live up to the hype 
Anyone check out NCAA FootbaJl 2007 yet? If so, has anyone played with the Notre Dame? If not, well, don't-it's 
not fair. They're too good. Let that sink in for a minute. 
Notre Dame's attack is 


one of the  Bob Griffin  
most lethal in  Sports Writer  
college  

football. Quinn, Walker, Samardzija, McKnight. And that's before a decent tight end (Carlson) and a stacked offensive line are added into the mix. 
It's taken a decade (since the end of the Holtz era) but Notre Dame has officially returned to the college foot­ball radar. And after so much time outside the National Championship pic­ture -all the pieces are in place this season for, par­don the phrase, a return to glory. 
Even video game manu­facturers noticed. 
That's what makes this weekend's game against No. 19 Penn State so important. The No. 4 Irish have to show the count.cy they're worthy of the hype they cre­ated last season and through the summer. Hype that makes Notre Dame a favorite for a trip to Glendale, Ariz. 
And at the same time ­hype the team failed to jus­tify last week. 
Georgia Tech turned out to be as challenging as Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis expected. But what he didn't anticipate were nine offensive penalties, six dropped balls and zero passing touchdowns. 
Notre Dame was lucky to escape with a win, and if the Irish come out with the same offensive performance against Penn State­Nittany Lions quarterback Anthony Morelli and his tal­ented receivers should find a way to muster more than 14 points. 
Notre Dame's strength on offense against the Yellow Jackets was Irish running back Darius Walker. He car­ried the ball 22 times for 99 yards and a touchdown. And even more important than the numbers was the stability he created when Quinn didn't have his best game. 
He won't have it easy this week, though. Penn State linebackers Paul Posluszny -the returning Butkus Award winner -and Dan Connor (13 tackles in his first game of the season) might as well reserve a spot on their shelves for All­American trophies. 
They can probably even It would quiet the skeptics start looking at expensive that believe Notre Dame is apartments in NFL cities. overrated heading into the 
The two are a major rea­2006 season and its close son why the Nittany Lions win over Georgia Tech was defense allowed an eye-pop­just the first indication. ping :B yards on 34 carries A win would inspire the last weekend against Akron. dozens of recruits visiting 
So when Notre Dame Notre Dame Stadium who 
comes out  are consider­ 
looking to make a  So when Notre Dame  ing making it their home  
statement Saturday, the respon­sibility will rest in its best play­er's hands -Brady  comes out looking to make a statement this week, the responsibility will rest in its best player's hands -Brady Quinn.  for four years. It would show that Weis' Irish know how to win a big game­something  

Quinn. Penn State will likely do a good job keeping Notre Dame's rush­ing attack in check but its secondary -outside safety Donnie Johnson-leaves something to be desired. 
Quinn will need to exploit this. The senior quarter­back threw for 246 yards last week, but has not pro­duced a passing touchdown since last November against Stanford. It would be crazy to think Quinn and Weis are unaware of this. 
A convincing win -not a blowout, but a well-played performance -would do a few things. It would silence the talking heads that threw the Irish under the bus after Notre Dame's Fiesta Bowl disappointment. 
they could contribute to in the future. 
It would be a boost that would give Notre Dame the confidence and momentum to plow through the rest of 2006. And most importantly, it would validate all the magazine covers, summer boxing matches and "Take me out to the ballgames." 
Oh yeah. And it might even begin to ensure that college football fans feel guilty about playing with the Irish in NCAA Football 2008. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgrifji3@nd. edu. 
game hype 

Joe Paterno Nittany Lions head coach 
"You have to , have that goa/and expectation to score every time. ·• 

John Latina Irish assistant head coach 
"It's no big secret Joe Paterno is one ofthe greatest {coaches] in the game., '"We're playing a really good football team that splaying at home and has a lot of tradition. ,, 

Brady Quinn Irish quaterback 
'The coaches always think you should be playing better than you're playing, and I certainly feel that way now. , 



Friday, September 8, 2006 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 




Reggie revisited 

Observer file photos 

At lett, Irish kicker Craig Hentrich boots one of his three field goals in Notre Dame's 17-16 win over Penn State on Nov. 14, 1992. At right Irish tailback Reggie Brooks runs past Nittany Uons defensive lineman David Thomas. Brooks caught the game-winning two-point conversion attempt from quarterback Rick Mirer with 20 seconds 
Years after Brooks' dramatic catch won "Snow Bowl," teams finally meet again 
Brooks was just a couple hun­its linebackers. Eight Nittany whacked Boston College 54-7 was they had practiced that By MIKE GILLOON 
dred yards from his current Lion linebackers -including on Nov. 7. play for two-point conversions. Sports Writer 
office, laying on the ground in current starter Paul Posluszny Notre Dame was on a roll With a two-pointer needed to the corner of Notre Dame -have been named All­toward the showdown on Nov. win, Holtz was forced to draw They don't have names on Stadium's south end zone. He American, almost a quarter of 14, 1992. And if anyone wanted up a new plan on the sideline, their jerseys. They lack logos earned bruises to prove it. the school's total All-American to beat Penn State in 1992, it one where tight end Irv Smith on their helmets. Their coaches "It was one of the more phys­count of 32. was Joe Moore. A Pennsylvania was to pivot at the line and let are cranky, Catholic and East ical games I've ever played in," Notre Dame has more than high school coach and assistant Mirer hit him with a quick Coast. Brooks says. double -79 -with the most at Pittsburgh and Temple pass. Brooks' role was to 
As programs known for their With the Irish at No. 4 in this recent, Jeff before he streak toward the corner of the often-boring, always-tradition­week's AP poll and the Nittany Samar d z ij a, joined Holtz' end zone and keep Penn State's al styles, it surprises some that Lions at No. 19, more than a being Irish staff in 1 9 8 8 , linebackers away from Smith. 
"It was one ofthose
games between Notre Dame few bodies will be bruised coach Charlie the then-Irish It wasn't how Holt:~: drew it and Penn State are usual1y when Saturday's game ends. Weis' first All-games where afterward offensive up -but it worked. 
line coach As the Nittany Lions defen­
dramatic. American. you just want to curl 
sive line chased Mirer out of
It doesn't surprise Reggie Blue with tradition Joe Paterno screamed,
up with a hot chocolate stewed and the pocket, Brooks did his job,
Brooks. Notre Dame has played has guided 26 
Today, the former Irish run­Michigan dozens of times, USC such honorees and say ·we'll party stomped sprinting toward the corner of around the the end zone with Smith three
ning back still works in the almost every year since Rockne since taking tomorrow. "' shadow of Touchdown Jesus. was around and Navy is a over as the practice field yards behind. 
the days before Thinking back to the play
It's just that the Hesburgh schedule staple. Nittany Lions 
Reggie Brooks when he leapt in the air, cra­
Library now blocks light from a But, though they've met just head coach in the game. 
former Irish running back "Moore was dled Mirer's pass and snatched
different angle than when he 17 times in over 100 years of 1966. Not 
counting in a pretty a victory for Notre Dame,
starred at running back for the football for each school, it's dif­
ornery mood Brooks pauses.
Irish from 1989-92. ficult to find a more dramatic George O'Leary, An employee in the campus' matchup than Notre Dame vs. Paterno has outlasted six Notre the whole week," Brooks says. "[Penn State] didn't really 
respect my hands," he says.
Information Technology Center, Penn State. Dame coaches who have come "He hated losing to Penn Brooks works in an inconspicu­Seven Irish players have won and gone in South Bend since State." Maybe it should have. ous office, three floors up and the Heisman Trophy and, while Paterno took Penn State's top So did the rest of the Irish. down a long hallway, in a Penn State has just one, the job 41 autumns ago. "[Moore and Holtz] didn't Snow Bowl, take two 
building next door to the Nittany Lions' sole winner gave The 17-game series is cur­have to do a lot to prod us," he Fourteen years later, Reggie library. the greatest acceptance speech rently knotted at eight apiece, says. Brooks is still a hero. 
"It's really nice when I hearIt's a much quieter life than when 1973 honoree and Penn plus a scoreless tie in 1925. 
"They didn't respect my hands" that that play was someone's
he led in 1992 when, as Notre State running back John The squads played annually 
favorite Notre Dame football
Dame's leading rusher with Cappelletti spoke of his cancer­from 1981 until 1992 and five Notre Dame's chances blew 1,343 yards, Brooks finished stricken little brother Joey. of those games involved the No. in the wind. memory," Brooks says. "It 
makes me feel welcome ... a
fifth in Heisman Trophy voting. Cappelletti received college 1 team in the nation. The Down seven with over four In 1992, the last time Notre football's biggest award but Nittany Lions entered the 1985 minutes left in regulation, part of Notre Dame." 
Many of tho.'>e who witnessed
Dame played Penn State, State College is more known for matchup at Beaver Stadium Notre Dame quarterback Rick atop the polls and thwarted the Mirer stood in the huddle, the 1992 classic will be in the Irish 36-6. cracking jokes to keep his stands again at Saturday's 
Notre Dame, at the height of teammates loose. Lou Holtz game -or on the sidelines. the Lou Holtz years, kicked ofT huddled on the sideline, engi­"It's the first time they've each game between 1988 and neering the most famous finish been back since then, is that 1990 at No. 1. The Irish won of his 11-year career. Joe right?" asks current Irish
by the numbers 
defensive coordinator Rick
the first two of those before Paterno was 53 yards away on Wins that both Penn State and Notre Dame have in the falling 24-21 in 1990 to No. 17 the Penn State side, the Minter, who held the same post teams' 17-game series. Penn State in Notre Dame swirling snow sticking to his under Holtz in 1992, of the
8 

Stadium. coke-bottle glasses. Nittany Lions. "I guess it's Joe 
The Nittany Lions' return trip In the huddle with Mirer, [Paterno] and I returning to the Tie between the two teams. Knute Rockne's Irish and Hugo to South Bend wouldn't be so Brooks shivered. scene." Bezdek's Nittany lions played to a 0-0 deadlock in 1925. successful. "Yes it was cold," Brooks Brooks will be there, focusing 
says. "[Former Irish offensive on the game. He confidently "He hated losing to Penn State" tackle] Aaron Taylor was hug­expects the Irish to win the 
12 
ging me in the huddle, trying to national title this season. It's a
Consecutive years in which Notre Dame and Penn State went Besides falling in its third 
home game of the year to warm me up." pick he made on the Notre
head to head, from 1981 to 1992. The Nittany lions joined the 
Big Ten in 1993. Stanford 33-16 and tying Brooks' body temperature Dame football radio show he Michigan at 17 in early rose as the Irish marched co-hosts, in a role much less September, Notre Dame hadn't down the field, until Notre intense than the job he had in
56 Years Joe Paterno has been on the Nittany Lions' coaching staff, 41 of 
had a close game all season. Dame ended up with fourth­1992. 
them as head coach. Dropping from No. 7 to No. and-goal at the Penn State 3 as "It was one of those games 14 in the AP poll the week after 25 seconds remained in regula­where afterward you just want Paterno's age when he was first hired as an assistant by then-Penn the loss to the Cardinal on Oct. tion. to curl up with a hot chocolate
2 3 

State head coach Rip Engle. 3, the Irish climbed back into That's when Mirer completed and say 'We'll party tomor­the Top 10, entering the game a pass over the top to fullback row,"' Brooks says. at No.8. Jerome Bettis as he hovered in We sure will. 
the end zone to pull Notre
3 54 
Wins as a head coach by Paterno, second most in Division 1-A The Irish beat Pittsburgh 52­behind Florida State's Bobby Bowden. 21 on Oct. 10, trashed Brigham Dame within one, 16-15. Contact Mike Gilloon at Young 42-16 on Oct. 24 and The problem for the Irish mgilloon@nd.edu 
~ .. . .. .. .. .. . '. •. .. . . 
---~­

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 8, 2006 

Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 1-0 AP: 4 Coaches: 5(tie) Notre Dame Fighting Irish Charlie Weis 
WID£
NOTRE DAME 

2nd season at 
RECEIVER
NOTRE DAME 
Md<nighl
Notre Dame 
OFFENSE 

AnastAsio 
career record: 
West
2006 Schedule 
LEFT TACKLE HIITb.
10-3 
TAil.BAC'K

.at Notre Dame: 
TurkovichWalker 
LEFT GUARD 
('T. Thomas)
10-3 

Santueci Prince FllLLBACK QUARTERBACK Olsen
Sept. 2 at Ga. Tech -W
Charlie Weis against 

~Schwapp Quinn 
head coach Penn State: 0-0 
Sept. 9 PENN STATE 


~~~~ 
Sept. 16 MICHIGAN
Roster Sept.23 atMSU 

RIGIff GUARD
No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 
1 D.J. Hard WR 6-1 192 so 
Morttm 2 Darrin Walls DB 6-1 175 FR 
Sept.30 PURDUE 
3 Darius Walker RB 5-11 208 JR 
4 Demetrius Jones QB 6-4 202 FR 
Oct. 7 STANFORD
5 Rhema McKnight WR &.1 212 SR 
6 Ray Herring DB 6-0 189 so 
7 Crai~Cardillo K 6-0 170 SR 
Oct. 21 UCLA 
TIGHT,END

8 Raes on McNeil DB 6-0 175 FR 
9 Tom Zbikowski DB 5-11 203 SR 
Cari$Qn 10 Brady Quinn QB 6-4 227 SR 
WID€

Oct. 28 at Navy
11 David Grimes WR 6-0 170 so 
RF.CEIVF..R 12 Zach Frazer QB 6-4 215 FR 
Sarnilrdzija

13 Evan Sharpley QB 6-2 207 so 
Nov. 4 UNC 
Gril1'1(!s .

14 Bob~· Renkes K 6-0 195 SR 
15 Leo errine DB 6-0 186 JR 
17 Geoffrey Price p 6-3 186 SR 
Nov. 11 at Air Force 
17 Dan Gorski QB 6-3 196 so 
18 Chinedum Ndukwe DB 6-2 219 SR 
19 George West WR 5-8 179 FR 
Nov.18 ARMY 
20 Terrail Lambert DB 5-11 188 JR 
21 Barry Gal~ Jr. WR 5-11 175 FR 
PENN STATE 

Nov. 25 at USC
22 Ambrose Ooden CB 5-11 197 SR 
23 Chase Anastasio WR 6-2 203 SR 
nmtl1()1'1$ 
DEFENSE

23 W. David Williams DB 5-10 170 JR 
24 Brandon Erickson WR 6-0 178 JR 
25 Munir Prince RB 5-10 175 FR 
26 Wade lams DB 5-9 188 JR 
26 Travis Thomas LB/RB 6-0 215 SR 
27 David Bruton DB 6-2 187 so 
27 John Lyons RB 6-1 205 SR 
28 Kyle McCarthy DB 6-0 189 so 
29 Jashaad Gaines DB 6-0 195 FR 
29 Jake Richardsville WR 6-0 180 so 
30 Mike Richardson DB 5-11 193 SR 
31 Sergio Brown DB 6-1 184 FR 
32 Luke Schmidt RB 6-3 230 FR 
33 Nate Whitaker K 5-9 165 FR 
34 James Aldridge RB 6-0 209 FR 
COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
35 Ashley McConnell RB 6-0 247 SR 35 Tim Kenney DB 6-0 180 SR 36 DexCure RB 6-1 215 FR 37 Junior Jabbie RB 5-11 190 JR 38 Nick Possley WR 6-1 183 JR 
ay...... u...-........ri: 5--U ..... FR 

Weis' initial game plan 
While Quinn had a 
Darius Walker struggled 
Rhema McKnight had

39 Kevin Brooks "" TE 6-2 230 FR 
40 Maurice Crum, Jr. LB 6-0 220 JR 
last week fell short of subpar game -by his 
in the first half last week, 
eight catches for 108
w

41 Scott Smith LB 6-3 234 so 
expectations, but his in-
standards -last week, but recoverd in time to yards in his first game
42 Kevin Washington LB 6-1 231 so 
:E 

42 David Costanzo WR 5-9 170 so 
game adjustments on both
c( 

he is a fourth-year 
rush for 99 yards on 22 back from his injury, but
43 Eric Maust p 6-1 180 FR 
43 Mike Anello DB 5-10 180 so 
offense and defense were 
starter that rarely makes
c 

carries. LB/RB Travis Jeff Samardzija was a 
44 Asaph Schwapp RB 6-0 250 so 
the difference in the con-bad throws. He's played 
Thomas should also get 
non-factor for a signifi­
w

45 Kris Patterson WR 5-11 174 so 
test. He has experience in numerous big games
45 Carl Gioia K 5-10 183 SR 
0:: 

carries this week. This 
cant chunk of the game.

46 Michael Planalp TE 6-4 230 so 
t­

facing hybrid defenses 
throughout his career, may be the game that Notre Dame's third
46 ~le Charters LB 5-11 195 JR 
o

47 itchell Thomas LB 6-3 240 SR 
from his time in the NFL, and he should return to 
speedy freshman Munir 
option, David Grimes,

48 Steve Quinn LB 6-2 220 JR 
z 

where they are more pop-
the form he showed in
49 Matt Augustyn FB 6-3 220 SR 
Prince gets to touch the will look to exploit the 
49 Toryan Smith LB 6-0 230 FR 
ular than in college. 

2005 Saturday. 
ball as well. 
young PSU secondary.

50 Dan Santucci OL 6-4 290 SR 51 Dan Wenger OL 6-4 285 FR 52 Joe Brockin~on LB 6-1 212 SR 53 Morrice Ric ardson LB 6-2 228 FR 54 Anthony Vemaglia DB 6-3 221 JR 
Morelli is long on talent Led by linebacker Paul The Nittany Uons have
55 Eric Olsen OL 6--4 290 FR 
Paterno is a coaching
56 Nick Borseti LB 6-4 238 SR 
but short on experience. A Posluszny and defensive three new starters in the
legend, having roamed
57 Dwight Stephenson DL 6-2 252 SR w 
first-year starter playing tackle Jay Alford, Penn secondary, but they played 
59 Chris Steward OL 6-5 340 FR 
the Penn State sidelines
60 Casey Cullen DL 6-1 238 SR ~ 
in his first road game, he 
State's defense held 
well last week, allowingfor more than 40 years ­

61 J.J. Jansen LS 6-3 242 JR ~ 
will be tested to make 
Akron to just 33 rushing just 192 yards through the 
63 Jeff Tisak OL 6-3 305 so U) 
collecting 354 victories in 
64 Dan Chervanick DL 6-1 259 SR 
quick reads and get the air. Sophomore corner­
yards on 34 carries last
66 Derek Landri DL 6-3 263 SR 
the process. At age 79, he
z

68 Ryan Harris OL 6-5 288 SR 
ball to the correct place. 
week. The occasional 3-4 
back Justin King is anhas shown no signs of

69 Neil Kennedy DL 5-11 260 JR z 
Also, Penn State quar­scheme confuses offensive 
emerging star. Nolan

71 Bartley Webb OL 6-7 290 FR w 
slowing down, leading the 
72 Paul Duncan OL 6-7 292 so 
terbacks coach Jay
a. 

linemen and allows the 
McCready and AnthonyNittany Lions to an 11-1

73 Matt Carufel OL 6-5 288 FR 
Paterno doesn't have 
linebackers to flow to the Scirrotto both had inter­
74 Sam Young OL 6-7 292 FR 
record last season. 

75 Chris Frome DL 6-5 268 SR 
Weis' offensive mind. 
ball. 
ceptions against the Zips. 

76 Bob Morton OL 6-4 292 SR 77 Michael Turkovich OL 6-6 290 so 78 John Sullivan OL 6-4 298 SR 79 Brian Mattes .OL 6-6 285 SR 80 Richard Jackson WR 6-3 200 FR 

Quinn's experience will
While Weis is known for 
Samardzija, McKnight

81 Darrin Bragg WR 6-1 192 JR 
The Notre Dame
playa big role Saturday.Jn 
82 Robby Parris WR 6-4 185 FR 
his offensive playcalling, and Grimes have too mqeh
83 Jeff Samardzija WR 6-5 216 SR 
ground game was incon­
his fourth year as the
84 WiJI Yeatman TE 6-6 250 FR 
his experience as a head 
talent to stay quiet forsis t week as

86 Mike Talerico TE 6-5 245 
starter and second in Weis' 
JR 
long, especially against an

87 Marcus Freeman TE 6-3 245 SR 
system, the Irish signal
88 Konrad Reuland TE 6-6 239 FR 
inexperienced Penn State 

89 John Carlson TE 6-5 255 SR 
caller can be counted upon secondary.
90 John Ryan DL 6-5 240 FR 
to know where the ball
91 Travis Lcitko DL 6-7 270 SR 
Tight end John Carlson

92 Derrell Hand DL 6-3 301 so 
needs to go and how to get
93 Paddy Mullen DL 6-5 265 FR 
and the running backs will

it there ~ something94 Justin Brown DL 6-3 247 JR 
also get involved in what

95 Victor Abiamiri DL 6-4 260 SR 
Morelli may struggle 'With
% Pat Kuntz DL 6-2 267 so 
should be an effective 

97 Kallen Wade DL 6-5 220 FR 
in a hostile environment. 
Irish passing game.~

98 Trevor Laws DL 6-1 293 SR 99 Ronald Talley DL 6-4 261 JR 


Mike Gllloon 
Editor in Chief 
Bob Griffin 

Asst. Managing Editor 


Friday, September 8, 2006 
The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 5 



Penn State 
NiHany Lions Record: 1-0 AP: 19
Penn State Nittany Lions Coaches: 19 
PENN STATE~ 
OFFENSE ~ 
FULUIACI< /t 
t 
:::: ~~ 
TAILBACK j.
Hunt 
/f Scott' QUARTERBACK

\~ Morelli ~ Cianciolo 
\ 

;~;:GUARD~~ 

Harrison ­~=TACKLE~' t · ­
• 
WIOE RECEIVER Williams 

Golden 

CORNER RACK 
Richardson 
lambert or McNeil

;,:,;:~KLE-·~ 
LEFT GUARD -otrrSIDE 
Cadogan LINEBACKER 

Ohmben,r~~ t' ~"~-!))~RIGHT END
fJl "'­
Talley 
Frome 

' . ~toH-r. ~-) «-.ll
_l~CKI.E \loi( __,_) " 

:ll \ X landrl ' ~ ~J_ / ~ \ : 
CENTERu. ~-~-Kuntz 2_j 0)~
~~ ~~';..~:~R 

_ Crum \,\ Shipley / , , \T. Smith ('\ 
TIGHT END \.\ LEfTTAC ,v ~\ . . :.!_.' 
~~~t J) t::o ~ '-~~ -1 ,:-­WIDE REC€1VER ,..' ~~j " ij'/ . Buder I .. ' . OUTSIDE \ Norwood ..._. 7 ~ LINEBACKER ~ _i 1 , /
1 

_ tf-.14' BNO ·~ ;;~ ~~"';; c ' ij

f AbiMT~Iri c._::; . ,./_ j, . 
· '. llyoOM J. S.owo 
'S2'!::'AO;><') 

~$t
..,_ .fl:tdl ;iJ 
!: ) c'~ 
• 
FREE 
SAFfTY

j/~Er~yor 
. 
2J 

,_)STRONG
_,/!;_ (SAFETY 
~ [.{ ~~:,;kf <~ 
~--' 


NOTRE DAME 
DEFENSE 
Joe Paterno 41st season at
PENN STATE 
Penn State career record:
2006 Schedule 
354-117-3 
at GT: 

354-117-3
Sept. 2 AKRON-W 


against Notre Joe Paterno 
Dame: 8-5 head coach
Sept. 9 at Notre Dame 
Sept. 16 YOUNGSTOWN 
Roster 

Sept. 21 at Ohio State 
No. Name Pos. Ht. 
1 Justin King CB 6-{) 
2 Derrick Williams WR 6-{)
Sept. 30 NORIHWESIERN 
Oct. 7 Oct.14 Oct. 21 Oct. 28 Nov. 4 Nov. 11 Nov. 18 

at Minnesota MICHIGAN ILLINOIS at Purdue at Wisconsin TEMPLE MICHIGAN ST. 
LIONS RUSHING LIONS PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS 
Notre Dame's' run defense had a slow start against Georgia Tech but it picked up the · slack in the second half. The Irish held Yellow Jackets tailbacks Tashard Choice and Rashaun Grant to a measly 64 yards on 17 carries.  Anthony Morelli will be making his first career road start against an Irish defense that is vastly improved. He must avoid mistakes for the second straight week after throwing three touchdowns in 3 2 attempts in Penn State's opener.  Besides the woeful right foot of Carl Gioia, Notre Dame's special teams excelled against Georgia Tech. Geoff Price averaged more than 50 yards a punt' Bobby Renkes had two touchbacks and George West, David Grimes and Tom Zbikowski all had strong returns.  The last time· these two teams played was the Snow Bowl of 1992, when Reggie Brooks caught a two-point conversion in the final seconds to give the Irish the 17-16 win. Brooks still works for Notre Dame ­now in the Office of Information Technologies.  
Penn State gained just 7 4 yards on the ground against Akron -42 of those coming on a single run by A.J. Wallace. The Nittany Lions feature tailback is Tony Hunt, who carried the ball 14 times for 36 yards in the victory.  Despite surrendering 111 yards to Tech wide receiver Calvin Johnson, the Irish secondary held the Yellow Jackets to just 140 yards passing. Minter showed more nickel pack­ages than he did last year. using freshman Darrin Walls in the scheme.  Sophomore Kevin Kelly has a decent leg on kickoffs and field goals but had as many out of bounds (1) as touchbacks. Punter Jeremy Kaphios had a poor game, averaging 34.5 yards a kick. Return specialist Derrick Williams has the ability to take it to the house on any play.  Only Bobby Bowden has more wins at the Division 1-A level than Joe Paterno. The legend of Pennsylvania will have his team ready to play a top opponent on the road to prove that Penn State's resurgence was not a one-year fluke.  
Notre Dame's defensive line will be able to stop the unproven Penh Sta~ rushing attack if it can play like it did inthe sec~ ond half against Georgia Tech. Travis Thomas and Maurice Crum must bit the line fast when deiensive coordinator Rick Minter calls stu_nts.  Penn State and Notre Dame entered the season with significant questions in this matchup. f3oth teams p'erformed above expectations in Week 1, but it remairts to be seen if Zbikow·ski and Notre Dame will outplay Morelli and Penn State.  Notre Dame will win the field position battle if it comes down to puntirig but may struggle if the game comes down· -to field goals. The Irish return men give Notre Dame the advantage after .the strong showing In Atlanta.  Notre Dame will haye the crowd louder than usual for the home open­er, and the lore!t.of P.ast wins and "Irish Impact!" will cai:"rY the team. Penn State has its positive.s•· but not enough to match Notre Dame. -·  

INTANGIBLES 
z 
0 
---4 ::0 
'" 
c 
>
s: 
'" 
., 
m 
z 
z 
(/) 
~ 
.... 
m 
l> 
z 
>
!:( 
tA
-
tA 
3  Deon Butler  WR  5-10  
4  Terrell Golden  WR  6-3  
5  Jerome Hayes  LB  6-2  
6  Mike Hart  QB  6-{)  
6  Donnie Johnson  s  6-{)  
7  Anthony Scirrotto  s  6-{)  
8  Rodney Kinlaw  RB  5-9  
9  Jason Ganter  s  6-{)  
10  Lydell Sargeant  CB  5-10  
11  Tony Davis  CB  5-10  
12  A.J. Wallace  DB  6-1  
13  Jay Alford  DT  6-3  
14  Anthony Morelli  QB  6-4  
15  Paul Cianciolo  QB  6-4  
16  Francis Claude  TE  6-5  
17  Daryll Clark  QB  6-2  
18  Navorro Bowman  LB  6-1  
19  Andy Kubic  LB  6-4  
20  Trm Shaw  LB  6-1  
21  Knowledge Timmons CB  5-10  

22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 
32 33 34 35 
36 
3.7 
38 39 40 41 42 42 43 44 45 46 47 
48 
49 50 51 52 53 54 55 
56 
57 57 58 59 
60 
62 63 65 65 67 71 73 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 99 
Darien Hardy 
Kevin Kelly 
Nolan McCready 
Bredan Perretta Tony Hunt BenGummo Williie Harriott GrahamZug BranDon Snow Paul Posluszny 
Brent Carter Austin Scott Matt Hahn Jesse Alfreno Jeremy Kapinos 
Spencer Ridenhour Don Lawlor DougRheam Dan Connor NicYocum Charles Ramsey Colin Wagner Josh Hull Patrick Hall Sean Lee Tyrell Sales Josh Gaines Maurice Evans Brandon Ream Mike Lucian Joe Cianciolo Donley Brown Steve Roach jed Hill TomMcEowen Austin Hinton Chris Mauriello 
A.Q. Shipley Greg Harrison Aaron Maybin Patrick Weber Ross Muir Joe Toriello Rich Ohmberger Robert Price Levi Brown Mark Farris Dennis Landolt Lee Kuzenchak Gerald Cadogan Lou Eliades john Shaw Chris Auletta Mark Rubin Brennan Coakley Mickey Shuler Kevin Cousins James McDonald Ollie Ogbu Chris Rogers Kevin Darlin Jordan Lyons Nick Daise Jared Odrick Ed johnson Chris Baker TomGolarz Elijah Robinson Jim Shaw 
s 
K 
s 
WR RB 
s 
CB WR 
FB 
LB 
RB RB RB WR 
p 
LB 
FB DB LB LB RB 
K 
LB 
TE 
LB LB DE DE 
p G 
LB 
LB 
DT 
DE 
DT G 
LB 
c 
G DE C/G 
c 
G G G T T LB T G OL T T WR TE 
FB 
WR WR DT DL TE 
TE 
LS DE DT DT DE DT DT 
5-10 5-8 6-{) 
5-7 6-2 5-10 5-8 6-2 6-1 6-2 
6-2 
6-{) 6-{) 
5-11 6-1 
6.-<J 
6-2 5-9 6-3 
6-{) 
6-{) 
5-9 6-2 6-2 6-2 6-2 6-1 6-2 6-2 6-2 
6-{) 
6-2 6-1 6-2 6-4 6-2 6-1 6-1 6-3 
6-4 
6-1 6-3 
6-4 
6-2 
6-{) 
6-5 6-5 
6-4 6-4 
6-5 
6-4 6-4 6-4 
6-3 
6-4 6-4 
6-3 6-2 6-1 6-2 6-3 6-5 
6-{) 
6-5 6-1 6-2 6-1 6-2 6-3 
Wt. 179 201 166 215 
236 
206 
209 
192 
193 
195 
183 
193 
189 
288 
220 
222 
252 
224 
214 
204 
237 
181 
202 
173 
202 
180 
230 
177 
196 
188 
242 
238 
199 
209 
2JU 
185 
235 
199 
241 
208 
225 
214 
246 
169 
218 
251 
222 
234 263 
256 
201 276 224 231 308 251 279 2R9 234 297 290 226 271 273 309 296 299 328 282 291 297 311 294 299 300 213 234 234 206 189 278 257 242 249 226 280 290 290 232 287 264 
YR 
so 
so 
JR SR 
so 
SR SR 
so 
SR SR 
so 
JR FR SR JR JR 
so 
so 
FR SR SR 
so 
SR 
so 
SR SR SR 
so 
so 
FR SR SR FR SR JR FR SR 
II>
JR 
so 
JR SR 
so 
FR 
so 
SR 
so 
so 
JR FR SR JR SR JR SR JR FR JR SR JR JR FR SR JR JR JR SR SR SR 
so 
SR JR FR SR SR JR 
so 
so 
so 
so 
FR JR SR JR SR FR SR 
so 
so 
JR SR 



Notre Dame must eliminate the sloppiness The Irish worked out their offensive kinks with which it played against Georgia Tech in against a top Georgia Tech squad, and their order to beat Penn State. After a week of no defense gained valuable confidence. Notre media access for the Nitta.ny lions, Joe Paterno Dame's pass rush is too much for Morelli, 




Irish

will have his squad focused entirely on the game and the secondary is able to contain Deon plan and strategy. But the Irish win because Butler and Derrick Williams. Penn State's Quinn's determination to improve will rub off on defense cannot contain an Irish offensive the entire offense. Penn State will hang tough explosion. 


experts

but fade at the end. Kate Gales Ken Fowler ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31 Associate ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34 Sports Editor Penn State 17 Sports Editor Penn State 17 
Friday, September 8, 2006

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Sizing up the Irish and the Lions 


PENN STATE 
PASSING OFFENSE 
Anthony Morelli completed 16-of-32 passes for 206 yards against Akron in his first collegiate start. The canon-armed red­shirt junior was heavi­ly recruited out of high school, but is short on experience against top college competition. 
Morelli will have no shortage of talented receivers, including Jordan Norwood, who had seven catches for 61 yards and a touch­down against the Zips and Deon Butler, whose 37 catches led the team last season. Running back Tony Hunt is a threat to catch the ball out of the backfield. 
NOTRE DAME 
SECONDARY 
The much-maligned Irish secondary was better than expected ~gainst Georgia Tech, but the Nittany Lions have a much deeper receiving corps than the Yellow Jackets. 
Defensive coordina­tor Rick Minter employed a lot of nickel packages last week, inserting young defen­sive backs Darrin Walls, Ray Herring and Terrail Lambert in vari­ous situations. 
Minter will probably use extra defensive backs again this week to combat the speed of Norwood, Butler and Derrick Williams, espe­cially if Penn State goes to the air early. 


Friday, September 8, 2006 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 

Morelli faces his first road test as a starter 

pens to be Morelli." defensive line doesn't need toJunior completed Against Akron, Morelli fin­pressure the quarterback. ished 16-of-32 for 206 yards "[You can't] give this guy any
halfofhis passes last 
with three touchdown passes time to throw because this guyweek in poor weather and no intercep-has a cannon for 
tions against the an arm," Weis Zips in Penn "He's young but he said. "He's tall,
By KATE GALES and 
State's 34-16 he can stand
KEN FOWLER seems like he's 
win. there, he can see 
Sports Writers Even so, that experienced when things." wasn't good he's throwing the It's up to Penn Beneath a driving rain, enough for his State's offensive
ball.''
Anthony Morelli dropped back coach. line to give on his first pass attempt in his "I think Morel1i a chance first game as a starter. Morelli Morelli did a Mike Richardson to get comfort­quieted a lot of critics -and really good job Irish defensive back able in the pock­earned the loyalty of just as until he started et. The line many Penn State fans -with to get a little bit returned only the throw. [tentative] on some of his reads. senior left tackle Levi Brown 
He hit Deon Butler deep for a ... We've got a lot of work from last season, and the 42-yard score less than five ahead of us," Penn State coach Nittany Lions rushed for only minutes into the Joe Paterno 36 yards in the home opener. game to give said in his This week in practice, Paterno the Nittany "/ think Morelli did a weekly telecon­added Elijah Robinson, a 6­Lions an early good job until he ference foot-2, 287 -pound defensive lead they would Tuesday. lineman, to the offensive line. 
started to get a bit
not surrender. Morelli began But Morelli will still need time So much for [tentative] on some of the game 7 -of-to find open receivers like defenses feast­his reads. . . . We've got a 10 and com­Butler and speedy Derrick 
ing on an inex­pleted 1 0-of-16 Williams, who broke his arm
lot ofwork ahead ofus. " 
perienced quar­passes before against Michigan last year. terback. halftime. Weis has already done the 
"His first Joe Paterno After work­homework on how best to throw of the Nittany Lions head coach ing to contain attack the Nittany Lions year goes to the Georgia Tech's offense. house on a mobile Reggie "Each week you have to eval­bomb," Notre Dame coach Ball, the Irish will face a classic uate the quarterback, the offen­Charlie Weis said of the play. pocket passer in Morelli as he sive line-you have to evaluate "That doesn't fire me up too makes his first start on the road the protection schemes," he much." for the Nittany Lions. said. "It isn't just the quarter­
So Weis spent a lot of time "He's young but he seems like back, its who's blocking and this week preparing for the jun­he's experienced when he's protecting the quarterback." ior signal-caller. throwing the ball," Irish defen­
"A drop-back quarterback is sive back Mike Richardson said. Contact Kate Gales at 
AP a drop-back quarterback," he Morelli, 6-foot-3 and 195 kgales@nd.edu Nittany Uons sophomore quarterback Anthony Morelli drops back said. "You can name him how­pounds, has limited mobility. and Ken Fowler at to pass during Penn State's 34-16 victory over Akron Saturday. ever you want -his name hap-But that doesn't mean the Irish kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

Irish line hopes to dominate in the trenches 
have as good of a showing es us, and we really feel he's letes," he said. more than between any other
Nittany Lions' front 
against Tech, allowing two sacks going to be one of the best tack­What may be more of a con­games of the year," he said. If the Irish don't come out
7allawed just 33 yards of quarterback Brady Quinn and les in the country," Harris said. cern is if the Nittany Lions play 
10 "hurries." Offensive line coach John better against Notre Dame than much better than they did rushing against Akron For the Irish, last Saturday Latina said Penn State's depth they did against Akron -and against the Yellow Jackets, it was a game they'd rather forget. will cause a problem if Notre that's exactly what Paterno is could be a long day for Notre 
"I don't want to focus on Dame's offensive line wears hoping for. Dame.
By KEN FOWLER 
Georgia Tech and compare the down toward the end of the "I think a good football team 
Sports Editor 
two teams," senior center John game. gets better from the first game to Contact Ken Fowler at Sullivan said. "They have a lot of good ath-the second game of the year kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Notre Dame's offensive line Four-year starting left tackle can't focus on any mistakes it Ryan Harris echoed Sullivan's made against Georgia Tech. It'll comments about the "lesser per­have a big enough task handling formance" of the offensive line Penn State this Saturday. against the Yellow jackets. 
The Nittany lions surrendered "There are peaks and valleys in just 33 yards rushing to Akron a game and in a season, and we last weekend in a dominant per­will overcome [the performance 
formance. The hybrid 4-3-4 against Tech]," he said. "This is defense that Penn State utilizes something yon've got to put surrendered just 225 as a whole. behind you. You learn from it ... Jay Alford, a 6-foot-3, 288-and you move on. 
pound senior lines up at left tack­Harris made two costly penal­le, next to fellow seniors Ed ties in the fourth quarter against Johnson at right the Yellow tackle and Jim Jackets, a 15­Shaw on the ..Nothing [Young] does yard leg whip right end. and a 10-yard
surprises us. and we 
Athletic senior holding call. 
really feel he's going to
linebacker/line­"The penalties man Tim Shaw be one ofthe best really hurt us," lines up at the Harris said. "You
tackles in the country." 
left end position can't play a good on the defensive game with the line in a two­Ryan Harris amount of penal­point stance. At Irish offensive tackle ties we had, 6-foot-1 and 237 myself included." pounds, Shaw Freshman -> creates problems for offensive starter Sam Young was shaky at lines. times, but Harris said Young, for 
He had two tackles against the most part, "held his own." Akron, resulting in 15 yards lost "When [Young] came in, he for the Zips. war;; a little nervous ... but I think 
"I think Tim Shaw did a good he calmed down," Harris said. job, and he's a good athlete who "We're proud of him." can run," Nittany lions coach Joe Young will have to deal with Paterno said during a teleconfer­Shaw this time -and that's a 
ence Tuesday. "I want to keep battle Harris thinks the freshman him in the football game." can win. Irish offensive linemen John Sullivan, left, and Bob Morton, right, block for quarterback Brady The Irish offensive line didn't ..Nothing [Young] does surpris-Quinn in Notre Dame's 14-10 victory over Georgia Tech last week . 



Friday, September 8, 2006

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

to confirm. 



·!·.·'. 

HAMMES 
Ne>TRE+DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndcotolog.com 







