

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 76 MONDAY. JANUARY 30,2006 
Freedom debates not new at ND 
Paul II 's statements in the By MARY KATE MA~ONE papal document Ex Corde A<si.,tant News Ediwr Eeclesian. 
The debate was reignited 
D«~hatnd in dining halls. last week when University dorm rooms and faculty of'fices President Father John Jenkins for dnead«~s. thn issu«~S of aca­spoke to faculty, students and dPJilk freedom and Catholic alumni about the presence of r.haral'ler at Notre Dame -"Tlw·Vagina Monologues" and spotlighted in thn~n widely­the Queer Film Feslival at publiriznd presidential Notre Damn. addrt~sses last wonk -have In his addrnsses, Jenkins long engaged tlw University said academic freedom will COJIIlllUnity. not be without restrictions at 
Tlw !'ontentious dichotomy Notre Dame. lin did not issue a of frnn inquiry at a Catholic~ formal policy, but instead university has surfacPCI and nncouragnd the Univnrsity rn-surfaePd throughout Notre r.ommunit.y to engage in dis­Damn's JJHHI«)rJI history-con­cussion and ofl'er him feed­fronted as ~~arty as 1'J(J() fol­back about the interaction lowing a campus conference between academic freedom dPaling with pornography and and Catholie character ­censorship. and emerging adding the latest r.hapter to an again at the end of the 20th century following Popn John see FREEDOM/page 4 
SMC celebrates heritage with historic dinner 
body to arrive and held her 
By NICOLE ZOOK and 
wake and when1 tho 1971 
MEGAN O'NEIL 
agreement to merge News Writers 
between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame was signed ­
The dress and conversa­proved to be the perfect his­tion were different from torical setting for the event. events held in Stapleton Students, alumnae, facul­Lounge centuries ago, but ty, administrators and the atmosphere was the Sisters of the Holy Cross same as members of' the mingled and dined together Saint Mary's community in Stapleton during the gathered there Friday night event, which both show­to celebrate the culmination cased the rieh history of the of the College's first school and connected stu­Heritage Week with a din­dents of today to Saint ner reminiscent of' days Mary's women of the past. gone by. The dinner was onn of 
Staplnton Lounge -the several events held for room where famed former Heritage Week. ineluding a College president Sister scavenger hunt, two lee­Madeleva used to gather tures, tours of' historical students to read poetry by campus landmark Heidinger the fire, where the College community waited for her see HERITAGE/page 3 


Gilloon elected 2006-07 Observer editor in chief 
( lbscrvcr Stall' Report ley ball and men's lacrosse. 

"I look forward to the oppor­
The Observer General Board tunity to use thn experience I've electnd sports editor Mike gained with the sports depart­(;illoon as the 2006-07 editor in ment to improve the papnr as a chief' on Saturday. whole," Gilloon said. "It is a 
(;illoon. a junior English ehallengn, but one I am hon­major from 
ornd to accept." Omaha, Neb. During Gilloon's term as who lives in sports editor, he coordinated Stanford special snr.tions on ear.h Notre II all, j oi1wd Dame football gamo and vari­TIH~ Ohsnrver cnts othor Notro Dame and as a sports intnrhall teams. n~portPr dur­lin is the third editor in chinf ing his fresh­in the past four years to eomn man ynar. from tlw sports dnpartmont.
Gllloon

Si n c~~ t lw n . "I havn eonfidnncn in Mike's lw has eovnrnd a wide variety ability to lnad The Observer of lwats, including Notn~ Dame football. football recruiting, vol-see EIC/page 4 
~-----­
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


SMCdean takes job atWab.ash 
White leaves College for presidential role 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saint Mary's Editor 

After 17 years as an admin­istrator at an all-wonwn 's col­lngn, Saint Mary's vice prnsi­dent and dean of' faculty Pat White will lind himself' work­ing in a drastically different set­
ting  next  
fall.  
W h i  t  e  

announced Saturday he has accepted the position of' president at Wabash College, one of' only thr<Hl men's collcgns rnmaining in the Unitnd States, and will take ovnr on .July I. Tlw nationally ranknd liberal arts school, located in Crawfordsville, Ind., was founded in l H32 (UHI has an enrollment of' H71 students. 
"The opportunity to lead at a r.ollege of' Wabash's history and Wabash's potential is really nxdting to me and it is a great honor," Whitn said. "I am very lueky." 
White is the second Saint Mary's administrator t.o be named president of' anotlwr eollegn in the past thrnn wenks. Linda Timm, viee pres­ident for student affairs, was hired on .Jan. II to IHlad Mount Mary Collegn in 

sec WHITE/page 4 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saint Mary's Editor 
Security investigator Patty Holens stood on stage in ()'Laughlin Auditorium Sunday night and asknd her audience members -all of whom were given a drink spike doteetor when they entered the evening's ovent -how many had highlighter marks on thnir deviees. Houghly one-fourth of the audience rosn to its feet. 
"Twenty-five percent of' collngn womnn havn been the victim of rape," Holens said. "That is one in every four of' you that will be a vie­tim someday." 


Forum covers drinking, date rape 
Police, sex assault experts advise Saint Mary's students how to be safe 
Holens' effort to make an abstract statistic a visual reality was just the begin­ning of "Wasted and Wounded: Sex, Alcohol and You," an event that brought sexual assault experts from the St. Joseph County Family Violenee and Special Victims Unit, the South Bend Police Department and Sex Ol'f'nnse Servir.es among othnrs to Saint Mary's to diseuss rapn and how to avoid bncoming a victim. 
Brent llnmmerlein, com­mander of' the St. Joseph County Pamily Violence and Spedal Victims Unit, said hn had 44 cases of snxual 
see WASTED/page 4 


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, January 30, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Good cause, bad name 
Willi Fafuer Jenkins' speech on academic freedom earlier this monfu, it seems like 1he annual "Vagina Monologues" Monfu debates have begun a little early this year. 
So before all1hat fun ge1s into full swing, I'd justlike to say this: This year, let's remember 
Chris Khorey 
one 1hing-1he bat­tered women. Every year we go Sports1hrough this and every 
Writer 
year 1he radical femi­nists fight 1he staunch conservatives and every year everyone ge1s caught up in 1heir side and people completely forget about1hose who need help. 
That said, I'm going to give a list ofsuggestions to bo1h sides of1hings to keep in mind while this monfu runs i1s course. 
To 1he feminis1s: 
Remember who you're fighting for. Women who have been attacked need shelter and coun­seling, among oilier 1hings. These causes need money, and this campus is willing to give, as you have already seen in past years I'm sure. However, when, for whatever reason, you put up a controversial front, people are less inclined to give. 
Remember who 1he enemy is: The enemy is not Fafuer Jenkins and it's most certainly not1he guys you see walking to class every day. The average man is not a rapist or spousal abuser, so don't treat him like one by lecturing him. Odds are he realizes violence against women is a problem and he would help out ifhe didn't feel like he was being accused ofsome1hing. 
Your enemies are 1he sociopaths who are so out-of-control1hat 1hey take no qualms in hitting 1heir wives or raping a woman off 1he street. The answer to this problem is not "awareness." Rapists and spousal abusers are unlikely to see what color t-shirt you're wearing. They are more likely to respond to extra police and more well-lit sidewalks. 
Remember what1he ''Vagina Monologues" is. It is a play, and a vulgar one at1hat. Ifyou want to put it on, fine. But don't claim 1hat people who are offended by or not particularly interested in it are unenlightened or not interested in 1he plight ofbattered women. The "Monologues" may include stories ofbattered women, but1hat does not mean 1hat people have to like 1hem to be sympathetic to 1hat cause. 
And to 1he conservatives: 
Remember who you're fighting for. Battered women need support and 1he organizations 1hat help 1hem need money and help. Protesting 1he ''Vagina Monologues" does not achieve this goal and only makes 1hose involved look intolerant and prudish. Raising money for battered women, possibly through Cafuolic charities, works wifu 1he feminis1s while helping out a good cause. 
Remember who 1he enemy is: The enemy is not your liberal professor in a red shirt on Valentine's Day or 1he girls performing 1he "Monologues". The enemy, as I said before, is 1he sociop~ths 1hat would do such horrible 1hings to women. Again, this is an opportunity to work wifu 1he feminis1s by encouraging Safe WaJks!Rides, better lit sidewalks and fast reac­tions by aufuorities. 
Finally, remember what1he ''Vagina Monologues" is. Itis a play, and a vulgar one at 1hat. But some people want to put it on and1hat is 1heir right. Ifyou don't 1hink you'd enjoy it, don't go see it. University sponsorship in light of Notre Dame's Cafuolic identity is a different mat­ter, for ano1her column and anofuer day, but whatever form 1he "Monologues" take, 1hey are what1hey are, and 1hat is someone's idea of what would make an entertaining performance. 
So, wifu all 1hat in mind, let 1he games begin, and let's see ifwe can't help out some victims of violent crimes in 1he process. 
Contact Chris Khorey at 
ckhorey@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author .and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to an editorial error in the Jan. 26 edition ofThe Observer, an In Briefitem incorrecdy stared the band Nice Save! would be playing at Corby's that Friday. The band will acrually be playing Friday, Feb. 3. The Observer regrets the error. 

QuESTION OF THE DAY: fF YOU COULD ADD ANY MAJOR, WHAT WOULD IT BE AND WHY? 


Dev Sethi John Strong Jon McCallie Mary Morales Okechi Ogbuokiri Ryan Emptage 
senior sophomore freshman senior junior sophomore off-campus Alumni St. Ed's off-campus Cavanaugh O'Neill 
"Communications "[think rd "Sex-ed. "The "Marine biology, "How about 
... I don't know  add a music­ That's it. "  fundamentals  
why, Ijustfeel  business  ofbaking,  
like most schools  combination,  because why  
have that."  like the music  not? Sounds  
industry you  ,good tome.  
know, strong. ,  


JENNIFER KANGfThe Observer Cavanaugh Hall residents Meghan Johnson, left, -and Megan Marsh make masks last Thursday for their masquerade Snow Ball during their dorm craft night. 
OFFBEAT 
And the most important trait in a mate is .•• 
TORONTO -When it comes to romance, women prefer someone who tickles their funny bone while men opt for those who catch their eye, according to an international survey released on Wednesday. 
The survey, conducted in 16 countries by Canadian romance pub­lisher Harlequin Enterprises, asked men and women on six conti­nents about traits they liked or disliked. 
Physical attraction was 
TODAY 0::: 
LLI :::1: 
!ci: 
LLI 
3: 
_, 
<C 
(,) 0 


HIGH 37
...I LOW 30 
the top priority for men in France, Brazil, Greece, Japan and Britain. And while 40 percent of Portuguese men rated intelligence over looks in a first encounter, no Australian men did so. 
Twins detained for loin­cloth outrage 
HARARE -Zimbabwean twins who became media celebrities for appearing in public wearing noth­ing but traditional African goatskin loin­cloths have been detained pending trial for indecent exposure. 
Harare magistrate Mishrod Guvamombe also ordered the 2'2­year-old brothers, dubbed the "Terrible Twins" by local newspa­pers, to undergo psychi­atric evaluation, the offi­cial Herald newspaper said Friday. 
The men raised eye­brows last month when they went to an upscale Harare shopping mall clad only in brief loin­cloths. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
because it ND-ology?" sounds fun. , 
IN BRIEF 
Three panelists will address the question: "Iraq: What now?" tomorrow at 4:15 p.m. 
in  the  auditorium  of  the  
Heshurgh  Center  for  
International Studies.  

Author Kirsten Sundberg Lunstrum will give a reading from her debut book, This Life She's Chosen, Wednesday at 7:30p.m. in South Dining Hall's Hospitality Room. 
The 2006 Winter Career and Internship Fair will take place Wednesday from 4 to 8 p.m. in the Joyce Center fieldhouse. The event is free and sponsored by the Career Center. 
The College of Arts & Letters will present "You Don't Really Have to he a Rhodes Scholar to Land a Fellowship for Post Graduate Study" Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Hammes Student Lounge of Coleman-Morse. 
Legendary rap artist Chuck D from the critically acclaimed Public Enemy will present "Rap, Race, and Reality" Thursday at 8:30 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall, Room 141. A Jimmy John's reception will fol­low at 10 p.m. 
The band Nice Save! will play Friday at 10:30 p.m. at Corby's. 
RecSports' Late Night Olympics will take place in the Joyce Center from 10 p.m. Saturday to 4 a.m. Sunday. Donations of $1 are taken at the door. Proceeds benefit St. Joseph County Special Olympics. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 30 HIGH 36 HIGH 40 ·HIGH 40 HIGH 38 LOW 26 LOW 24 LOW 28 LOW 28 LOW 27 
Atlanta 63 I 35 Boston 42 I 37 Chicago 38 I 29 Denver 54 I 36 Houston 70 I 46 Los Angeles 65 I 49 Minneapolis 31 I 22 New York 55 I 41 Philadelphia 59 I 41 Phoenix 74 I 47 Seattle 47 I 42 St. Louis 45 I 30 Tampa 70 I 56 Washington 59 I 44 
Monday, January 30, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
uates with whom she shared die I will be grateful because the Saint Mary's campus. She I had four very wonderful
Heritage 
recalled seeing Sister years and I loved it all," Madeleva tending !'lowers Sister Elena Malits said.
continued from page 1 
while on her way to class, Malits recounted how she Ilousn and a showing of "The and how the entire student and a group of elassmates Bells of Saint Mary's." body gathered in Holy Spirit wrote and produeed musical 
Studnnt body prnsident Chapel in Le Mans hall fol­comedies at Saint Mary's ·in Knllyn Mitros -who along lowing tho 1963 the early 1 <)50s. with snvnral other studnnts assassination of ller sonior yoar was dneked out in a vintage Prosident John ''The heritage of she was responsi­dinrH~r dress -was one of F. Konnndy. ble for thn chore­
Saint Mary's is 

thn rhief l'orres behind the Despite the ography and invit­initiation or Heritage Wonk, tight rules, really the heritage ed friends to a and during tho evnnt's open­Kniekt~rson said, of the Sisters of the dress rehearsal to ing said slrn was plPasod with she and the .get feedback on
Holy Cross."

tlw wt~ok's sueeess and the other novitiates the show. After dinrwr itsnlf. enjoyed some being told the sec­
"I cannot lwlinve this week humorous times Sister Ruth Marie ond act fell a bit has conw tognther so well." including Knickerson flat -with only Mitros said. throwing parties 24 hours to makes 
After thn family-style dinner in the old changes -Malits -snrved by student host­College clubhouse and endur­took matters into her own nssns, just as in the past -ing pranks from Notre Dame hands. Collegn missions commission­men. "I de,.ided the easiest thing or .Jenny Hobbins invited sev­"My first fall here we had was to do it [mysell'l," she eral Sisters to share their about three panty raids," said. "So -I don't know give Maltis an opportunity to 1946 that asked future stu­favoritn memories of their Knickerson said. "You would where I made this up -but it apologize. The student, how­dents to remember those timn both studying and teaeh­hear this roar coming up The was to be a sort of wild ever, wanted to stand her women who had gone before ing at Saint Avenue and they Indian dance." ground for what she thought them. Mary's. would decide In full native garb and grit­was a respectable perform­Many seniors attnnded the 
"It is rnally a what they were ting a rubber Indian knife in · ance. event and remarked that the
"We feel a 

joy f'or me to be going to do with her teeth, Malits leapt "Sister Madeleva, I am poem and dinner resonated
connection to the

here and sen so us and they onstage in a mid-air split and sorry -and I paused -that with them. many peopln women before us, decided to put us performed an energetic but you didn't like the dance," "We feel a eonneetion to thn cnlnbrating the in the chapel." "respectable" dance that Malits said to a roar of laugh­women before us, because
because obviously 

lwritage of Saint Other sisters "brought down the house." ter from the gutJsts. obviously a women's college
a women's college 

Mary's," Sister shared stories of "The next morning I had a The last speaker of the isn't for everybody, nspeeially Hu th Marie isn't for everybody, the Saint telephone message from evening was 2004 graduate nowadays," senior .Jenny Knickerson said. especially Mary's/Notre Sister Madeleva's secretary Kym Dunlap, who recently Nugent said. "The heritagn of Dame merger saying that Sister Madeleva published "Her Memories "As a senior, !the dinner
nowadays. '' 

Saint Mary's is that almost was, would like to see me in her Beyond the Avenue," a collec­wasl a nice time to gather rnally thn her­student-Sister office," Malits said. "And as a tion of stories by Saint Mary's with friends." senior Mary itage of tho Jenny Nugent relations and stu­senior, I knew Sister women throughout the years. Buell said. "It just really Sistnrs or the dent pranksters Madeleva did not invite you to Dunlap, who signed copies solidifies us as Saint Mary's
senior 

lloly Cross." including her office to compliment you." of her book earlier in the day women." 
llaving joinnd themselves. After berating her for the during the Reidinger House the convent in 1961 straight "I didn't enter the Sisters of dance, which Sister Madeleva tours. read excerpts of the Contact Nicole Zook at out of high sehool, the Holy Cross until after I thought was unbecoming of a book to the dinner crowd -zook8928@saintmarys.edu and Kniekerson was not permitted graduated [from Saint Saint Mary's woman, the including one poem written Megan O'Neil at to speak with the undergrad-Mary's!, and until the day I College president paused to by a Saint Mary's senior in onei0907@saintmarys.edu 




Congregation of Holy Cross 
If God is calling you
CORBY NIGHT 
Join us. 

Think you 1night have a vocation to serve as a priest or brother? Join the Holy Cross contmunitv at Notre Dante for an hour "' ofpraye1; pizza, and informal discussion. 
Wednesday, Feb. 1, 8:30pm at Corby Hall 

vocation.nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 30, 2006 
Freedo01 
continued from page 1 
extensive history of weighing the two at Notre Dame. 
The year was 1967. Father Theodore Ilesburgh was presi­dent of the University and at stake was the direction of the nation's Catholic institutions. 
I 
Hesburgh met with a group of prominent university presi­dents and administrators from around the country to draft a statement about an increas­ingly sensitive subject -the role and responsibility of 
Catholic universities in the 
t United States. The fruit of their discussions [ was known as the "Land 0' Lakes" statement -and its 
~ 
thesis, which promoted the idea of an independent spirit
t 
guiding Catholic universities, would eventually contribute to! the Vatican's fear that Universities were drifting too f far away from Church teach­
I 
ing. Throughout the 1990s, Vatican officials began creat­
t ing and revising a document that would address the role and responsibility of Catholic universities around the world. Throughout that decade, the issue swirled around Notre Dame's campus, as students and faculty clashed about Notre Dame's future direction and national identity. 
In a two-part series in the Viewpoint section of The Observer in April of 1991, law professor Charles Rice criti­cized the University for being too concerned with political correctness. 
"In the fall of 1989, Notre Dame sponsored a public showing of a blasphemy of Christ. in the film, 'The Last Temptation of Christ,' he wrote. "That event remains crucial in the history of Notre Dame. The University decided there that the First and Second Commandments were superceded by the authority of the secular establishment." 
Rice wrote that such spon­sorship was a result of the "Land 0' Lakes" statement, which he called "an institu­tional renunciation of the duty to affirm religious truth." 
A year later, The Observer published a lengthy essay by a Protestant alumnus that 
EIC 
continued from page 1 
next year," outgoing editor in chief Claire Heininger said. "He has a wealth of great ideas and an excellent relationship with the staff." 
Gilloon hopes to undertake projects during his tenure that include improving writing throughout The Observer, upgrading technology and streamlining the process by which the paper is produced. 
"I am excited to see what I can do to see The Observer improve next year," Gilloon said. "And I'm extremely eager to W?,rk with a very talented staff. 
Gilloon will assume the posi­tion as editor in chief on March 6. 
Please recycle The Observer. 
spanned two full-size pages. David Lutz wrote he feared Notre Dame might become "merely one more secular uni­versity" and that "there should be no hesitation on the part of its leaders to state that ... the teaching of the Roman Catholic Church will not be compromised on the Notre Dame campus and that anyone not interested in teaching at a Catholic university should teach elsewhere." 
"If positive action to halt and reverse the secularization of the University of Notre Dame is not taken soon, the question 


White 
continued from page 1 
Milwaukee, Wis. 
"Dr. White's unanimous selection by Wabash's Board of Trustees is a great person­al achievement for him and a wonderful outgrowth of his many years of service in aca­demic administration," said Saint Mary's President Carol Mooney in an e-mail to mem­bers of the College communi­ty. "His loss will be felt deeply at 


"[White's] loss will 
will not be whether, but when. 

Saint Mary's, but nized that," he classroom, and in that 
Notre Dame will be a Christian 

his appointment be felt deeply at said. respect Wabash is a perfect 
Iu]niversity in the same sense 

makes clear to White said he fit for me."
Saint Mary's, but 
all the superb had known While Saint Mary's is proud
that Northwestern University 

his appointment 
is now Christian," Lutz wrote. 

quality of the about Wabash of its identity as a women's 
Lutz's comments drew strong 

people who work makes clear to all and its strong institution, the college wants 
opposition and a debate 

at Saint Mary's." reputation as a to be recognized as much
the superb quality 
ensued regarding restrictions 

The vice presi­liberal arts insti­more than that, White said.
ofthe people who 
on academic freedom, as stu­

dent announced tution for many Similarly, Wabash has an out­
dents and faculty questioned 

in August he work at Saint years. standing academic character 
whether those restrictions 

would step down Mary's." "It is an inter­that he hopes to get to know 
could affect a student's pursuit 

from his admin­esting story," and to share with others. 
of the truth. Assistant philoso­

istrative position White said. "I "[I hope to] help articulate 
Carol Mooney 
to take a year have known what's special about the liber­
phy professor Paul Weithman 

sabbatical and College president about Wabash al arts education at Wabash,"
wrote in a Viewpoint letter 
for a long, long White said. "Wabash has a 
time in part Center of Inquiry in the because one of my favorite Liberal Arts which is some­professors when I was an what of an analogue to our undergraduate at the CWIL [Center for Women in University of Chicago Idepart­Intercultural Leadership]." ed for] Wabash and I was The Wabash Center recently very upset." received an additional $12.5 
That professor, Don million in grants in December, Herring, still works at and White said he looks for­Wabash today. ward to putting those 
In addition to a large resources to good use. endowment of Before being $320 million, named vice White said he "[!hope to] help president and sees two major dean of faculty
articulate what's 
differences in 2002, White
special about the 
between Saint served as associ­Mary's and liberal arts ate dean of fac­Wabash. ulty at Saint
education at
"Wabash has a Mary's from
Wabash."
strong fraternity 1988 to 2002; system and also first under of course a Pat White Dorothy Feigl strong commit­and then under
SMC vice president 
ment to the lib­Karen Ristau.
and dean of faculty
eral arts White was which Saint responsible for Mary's also has several academ­but Saint Mary's College has a ic milestones at Saint Mary's, more professional program," including the founding of the he said. Center for Academic 
While enrollment at Innovation in 1993 and CWIL Wabash has been steady, in 2000. His twin daughters, White said the select number Katie and Molly, are currently of high school students who juniors at the College. actually consider a single-sex school means it will be some­Contact Megan O'Neil at thing he plays close attention onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
that "restrictions on academic freedom are restrictions on the pursuit of truth"-a belief expressed by many in the Notre Dame community since Jenkins' addresses. 
The debate on academic freedom quieted somewhat until the 2000s -when two highly controversial and publi­cized events made their debuts on campus. 
"The Vagina Monologues" debuted in 2002, the Queer Film Festival in 2004. As the most recent additions to Notre Dame's decades-long debate on academic freedom, both events entered the campus conversation amid a flurry of fervent support and equally loud dissent. 
The strong reactions to the events have come from within the University and from far beyond its campus boundaries. Though University President Emeritus Father Edward "Monk" Malloy permitted both controversial events with little public comment, Jenkins has exerted a new leadership style -one he said last week he hopes will result in a formal policy on academic freedom and Catholic character. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at 
mmalone3@nd.edu 
then return to the Saint Mary's English department as a fac­ulty member. Not long after, however, he was contacted by a search consultant working with Wabash College to replace outgoing president Andrew Ford. 
After submitting an applica­tion and letters of recommen­dation, White went through three rounds of interviews. The first, which took place in early December in a hotel in Indianapolis, included meet­ings with and answering questions from the 16 mem­hers of the presidential search committee. On Jan. 6 three committee representa­tives visited White and his family in their home. Then, as one of three finalists, White traveled to Crawfordsville to visit the campus and meet with trustee members, facul­ty, students and alumni from Jan. 11-13. 
White said he found Wabash students to possess many of the same character­istics as Saint Mary's stu­dents. 
"Aside from the very big difference of the student bod­ies ... they have many simi­larities," White said. "[Wabash students] are very committed to the college, they are committed to the possibil­ity of their college, they are excited to be at Wabash." 
The students were interest­ed in the presidential search process, White said, noting that the student newspaper The Bachelor provided detailed coverage of each of the candidates. He was ulti­mately endorsed by one of the paper's opinion writers. 
"I have always been a big champion of student leader­ship p.ere at Saint Mary's and I think the stu­dents recog­
to. 
The small size of Wabash was attractive to the academ­ic, who has committed him­self to educating in a liberal arts setting. 
"Saint Mary's is the biggest college I have ever worked at," White said. "I've always wanted to be at a small col­lege where I could be close to students, and where the col­lege would be a community of learning, aqd where there could be a close connection between what is going on inside the classroom and what is going on outside the 






ORLD & NATION 
Monday, January 30, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Pope asks for unity to fight poverty 
VATICAN CITY -Pope Bnrwdict XVI c:allnd on world leaders to unito in the light against powrty Sunday and sent two dovos llying into St. l'ntpr's SquarP in a symbol of' pnaee, eontin­uing a tradition hPgun hy his prwloeossor, John l'aulll. 
l;rorn his studio window ovorlooking the squarP, BPnndic.t ofli~rNI a spodal gmeting to thosn who suiTor from lnprosy, a disfiguring cond ilion also known as !!anson's disnasn that alliwl'i hundreds of' thousands of poopln world­wide. 
Noting that Sunday was World Day of' I.Pprosy sum~n~rs. tho ponlill' nneouragod mis­sionarins, hPalth earn pnrsonrwl and voluntmws working in t.lw lield against thn scourge. 
"Leprosy is a symptom of' a morn serious and vaster ill. which is povnrty,': Bnrwdict told pil­grims. tourists and a group of Italian Catholk rhildren in tlw squarn. 
'Tor this n~ason, liJIIowing in thn wako ol' my pn•dec.nssors. I rPIWW tlw appoal to lnadnrs or nations so that tlwy will unit1~ their nll'orts to ovnrr.onw tlw grave imbalances that stiff pnnal­izn a largo part of humanity." 
Parliament involved in emir choice 
KUWAIT CITY -Kuwait's parliament vPJI.Pd unanimously on Sunday to narnn Shnik Sabah AI Ahrnml AI Sabah as tho nnw emir of llw oil-ridt U.S. ally, nnding an unprnendont­mf IPadership rrisis that saw thn legislature votn to oust tlw former IPader. 
Tho nnw nmir. tho f'ornwr primo ministnr, was not pms1•nt for tho 64-0 vote -the first tinw in Kuwait's history that parlianwnl has had a roiP in !'.housing tho mnir, a matter that has lwnn tiH' busirwss or thn ruling family l'or hundrPds ofyPars. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Journalists injured in attack in Iraq 
NI·:W YOHK -ABC "World News Tonight" co-anchor Bob Woodrul'l' and a cameraman worn soriously injurnd Sunday when tho Iraqi Army vehiele tlwy wnro travnling in was attacked with an nxpfosivn devke. 
Both journalists sull'erml ll()ad injuries, and Woodnrll' also has broknn bonos. Thoy worn in stabln 1:ondition lilflowing surg1wy at a U.S. mil­itary hospital in Iraq. and dun to be nvawatml to rnmfiraf f'aeilitios in Cnrmany, probably overnight. said ABC News President David Wnslin. 
"Wn takn this as good news, but the next few days will lw rriliral." Westin said. 
Woodrull' and Doug Vogl, an award-winning 1:anwraman. wnre ernbeddod with thn 4th Infantry Division and traveling in a convoy with 
U.S. and Iraqi troops near T<~ji, about 12 rnilns north of Baghdad. 
Questions arise about lack of aid 
WASIIINC;TON -llundrods of avaifabfo truc·.ks. boats, planes and l'ndnraf oiTieers wPrn unusncf in searr.h and rosr.uo nf'l'orts irnnwdiatc~ly al'tor llurrir.ano Katrina hit bPrausP FEMA failt'd to giv1~ tlwm missions, now doruments show. 
Additionally. llw Federal Emergency Managmnl'nt 1\gPrH:y rallnd orr its search and resnw opnrations in Louisiana three days al'tnr thn i\ug. 21J storm hnc:ause of security issues. according to an internal FEMA e-mail given to Snnalt! investigators. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Hog operation expansion planned 
I'OBTLAND. Ind. -Thrnn naslorn Indiana munlins haw altrar.ted 21 limnal slate applica­tions to huild or nxpand mnlinnd or eonc:nntrat­nd hog-1i~mling opnrations in just over a ynar, a rnporl Sunday said. 
Appliralions haw bnen lifnd with the Indiana I >Ppartnwnt ol' Environmnntal Managnmnnt to huild or expand lilur mnlirmd li~nding op1~rations and 17 coni:Prllratml animal n~nding opnrations to l'nmto now capadly lilr morn than 100,000 sows. nursmy pigs and linishing pigs in .Jay, Bandolph and Wayne c:ounlies. 
IRAQ 


Chaos erupts at Hussein trial 
Defense team argues for trial to move out ofthe country to less hostile environment 
Associated Press 

BAGIIDAD -Saddam llussnin's trial turned chaotic: shortly after rc1suming Sunday, with one defendant dragged out of court and tho dnl'onso tnam walking out in protest. The former Iraqi leader was then ns1:orted from the room minutes aftnr shout­ing "down with America!" 
Seeking to assert light control, tho nnw chief judge Haoul' Abdef­Hahman pressed ahead with tho procnndings evnn after tho oponing drama, !waring three prosecution witnesses before adjourn­ing tlw trial al'ter 4 1/2 hours. 
Abdei-Hahman said the trial will continue Wednesday or Thursday, depending on the date of tiHl Islamic now year, which is set according to 
thn  sighting  of  a  new  
moon.  
Abdnl-Hahman  was  

installed as ehinf judge after his prndecessor resigned amid complaints he was not doing enough to rein in Saddam's fre­quent courtroom out­bursts. 
Defonsn lawyers said the stormy session showed the trial was not fair -a vital concern in a nation that is trying to reconcile its Sunni Arab minority, which dominated Iraq undnr Saddam, and the Shiite Muslim majority that now controls the government. 
Former U.S. Attorney General Hamsey Clark. who is part of Saddam's defense team but did not attend Sunday's snssion, denounced the court as "lawless" and repeated r.alls for it to bo moved out of Iraq. 
"Now the court is seated without the defendants' counsel of' choice. This is wrong. They have the right to their own counsel and for that counsel to hear and question testimony madn against the defen­dants," Clark said, speak-

ing from New York. 

Saddam and his seven co-dHfendants are r.harged in the deaths of about 140 Shiite Muslims following an assassination attempt against the former Iraqi leader in the Shiite town of Dujail in 1982. The defen­dants could face death by hanging if convicted. 
Sunday's proeeedings, the l'irst in over a month, disintegrated almost immediately into shouting and insults. 
First, eo-defendant Barzan Ibrahim, who is Saddam's half-brothor and former intolfignnce chief. was dragged out of the room by guards after he stood and called the court 
"the daught11r of' a whore." Saddam shouted "down with traitors" and "down with America!" 
Thnn Abdef-Hahrnan, a Kurd, threw out a defense attorney for arguing with him. The rest of' the defense team stormnd out in protest as thf1 judge shouted after them, "Any lawynr who walks out will not bn allowed back into this courtroom." 
Abdol-Hahman appointed four new defense lawyers. But Saddam stood to rnjeet them and demand to loave the courtroom, holding a copy or the Quran and other papers under his arm. 
"You do not leave, I allow you to lnavn when I want to," Abdei-Hahman said. 
"For 35 years, I adminis­lnrnd your rights," Saddam replied, referring to his timn in powor. 
"I am the judge and you are thn defnndant." Abdef­Hahman rnsponded. Two guards pushed Saddam back into his chair, bnforn lhny wc\re ordored to flmd the ousted ruler from tho room. 
Two othor defondants also rojnctnd their nnw lawyers and wnrn allowed to h1avn. 
The procnodings then resumed with the four remaining dnfendants ­and none of' thnir original lawyers. 
POLAND 

Roof collapses at pigeon exhibit 
Associated Press 

KATOWICE -Heseuers said they did not expm:t to lind any more survivors or bodies Sunday under the twisted wrec:k­age of an exhibition hall in southnrn Poland that collapsed during a radng pigeon show, killing at least f>fl poopfn and injuring 160. 
Hnscue crews usnd hand tools lilr 20 hours in bitterly eold temperatures to carve through the sheet metal and snarlf1d poles of' the eoflapsed building so as not to risk harming any potential survivors. 
But Katowiee fire chief Kazimierz Krzowski said Sunday that large machinery was being called in to lnar down the rost of thn building. 
"There is a low possibility that people are stiff trapped undnr lhnrn," Krzowski said after surveying the site. "The parL<> or the strueturn that are not lying on the hrrmmd are a lhrnat." 
Somn 1,300 lirefightnrs, police olli­cers and mine rescue workers from around thn rngion wnn~ brought in to help in the nll'ort. 
Thn snow-eovernd roof' collapsed Saturday al'tnrnoon wlwn about 500 pnopln wnrn in thn hall. Pnopln trapped in the wrm:kagn usnd cnll phones to call relatives or mnergnnc:y serviens and tdl thmn whore they wnre. 
One survivor, Tadeusz Dlugosz, dimbml his way out of' thn rubble only to lind out his 26-year-old son, who was visiting another exhibit whnn thn roof' eollapsnd, had bmm killnd. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, January 30, 2006 
Ark. mother accused of stnothering 3 children 
Associated Press 

DE QUEEN, Ark.-A mother accused of smothering her three young children left notes that officials say could help determine what led to the killings, and her priest said Sunday that she had expressed "tremendous remorse." 
Paula Eleazar Mendez, 43, was in a county jail Sunday after being hospitalized for swallowing a toxic substance. 
She had collapsed as officers arrived at her southwestern Arkansas home Saturday morning in response to a tele­phone call from the children's father in New York. Inside the home, the officers found the bodies of the children, ages 6 to 8, lying side by side on a bed, said Chris Brackett, an investigator with the Sevier County Sheriff's Office. 
"I do not believe there is any dispute as to who killed these three children, and therefore who will be charged," prose­cutor Tom Cooper said. "However, we have not deter­mined at this time the particu­lar homicide charge or pun­ishment we will be seeking." 
De Queen Police Chief Richard McKinley said investi­gators needed a translator to read the notes that were writ­ten in Spanish. 
A family priest who visited Mendez in a hospital Saturday night described a woman experiencing profound sorrow. 
"She has tremendous remorse. She is deeply sorry," the Rev. Salvador Marquez­Munoz said Sunday before entering St. Barbara Catholic Church for Mass. "She asked for. our prayers and forgive­ness because she is realizing how much she has hurt the community, as well." 
He identified the children as 8-year-old Elvis and 6-year­old twins, Samanta and her brother Samuel. 
Autopsies were planned to determine whether the chil­dren had been poisoned or smothered, as their mother told police, Cooper said. The children's faces were not cov­ered when police found them. 
Cooper said an emergency room doctor told him Mendez had not ingested enough of the toxic substance to kill herself. Her arraignment was expected Monday, McKinley said. 
A neighbor said Mendez was distraught because her hus­band wanted a divorce, the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette reported for Monday editions. 
"She was depressed," Javier Garcia said through an inter­preter, explaining that she wept often for several weeks after learning the news during a trip to New York City. 
In the house's yard Sunday was a 7-foot-wide pile of burned papers. A page in a religion book bore the words "vamos a celebrar" -Spanish for "let's celebrate." A child's handwriting was scrawled in blue ink across some papers, and there were charred letters from a labor union in New York City. 
The priest said Mendez, who moved to the United States from Mexico 10 years ago, had lived in New York until last summer, when she moved with her children to De Queen. 
70 Canadian llliners trapped underground 
Associated Press 

ESTERHAZY, Saskatchewan ­Fire broke out Sunday in a mine in central Canada, forcing some 70 miners trapped underground to retreat to emergency refuge rooms stocked with oxygen and supplies, a mine official said. 
Late Sunday, a rescue team reached one of the rooms, made sure everyone was safe, then closed them back inside until the air inside the mine could be cleared of toxic gases, said Marshall Hamilton, a spokesman for Mosaic Company, the Minneapolis-based firm that operates the potash mine. 
"In those refuge stations, they can seal themselves off and there's oxygen, food and water," Hamilton told CBC Radio. "And they can stay in there for at least 36 hours." 
Hamilton said the fire broke out around 3 a.m. nearly a mile underground in the province of Saskatchewan. The miners reported smoke and quickly headed for the safe refuge rooms. 
Hamilton said company offi­cials could not establish a radio link with 30 of the miners but a team was able to enter one of the refuge rooms late Sunday and talk to the workers. 
"I won't kid you, there was a lot of relief in that," Hamilton said. 
He said the rescue team took a roll call of all the miners, ehecked their health and then helped them seal up the room again before leaving. 
Hamilton said they believed they had found the source of the smoke and were working on extinguishing the frre. He said the mine would be cleared of smoke and toxic gas before miners were evacuated, adding "we'd rather do this safely than quickly." 
"We'll go get them when we're absolutely confident that the fire is out and the smoke and the toxic gases that are associated with fires have left our opera­tions and the air is safe for them to breathe," he said. "They're safe where they are, they're safe in there for many, many hours, potentially even days." 
He said that some of the min­ers' families had gathered at the mine. 
"They're a little bit tired. They're a little bit anxious. They have confidence that we're going to safely bring them up," he said. "Nevertheless, they'd like to see them sooner rather than later." 
Potash is a pinkish-grey miner­al used in the production of agri­cultural fertilizer. 
The mine, which was Saskatchewan's frrst potash oper­ation when it opened in 1962, is located near Esterhazy, about 130 miles northeast of Regina. 
Hemmerlein said. St. Joseph County chief
Wasted 
deputy prosecutor Kenneth continued from page 1 Cotter reemphasized 
Hemmerlein's warning that a assault last year, and esti­sexual assailant is not the mated 15 of those cases stereotypical creepy man in a involved students at Saint trench coat and dark glasses. Mary's, Notre Dame, IUSB "What's a rapist look like? and Bethel. Anybody?" Cotter asked the 
A perpetrator of sexual audience. "It can look like assault is rarely a stranger, me, it can look like Brent, it Hemmerlein said. In fact, he can look like your father, it estimated that 85-90 percent can look like your brother, it of the cases he has worked can look like your boyfriend." can be traced back to an Cotter offered the audience 
acquaintance or  statistics stating  
friend of the vic­ that 67 percent  
tim. "It may someone  be you  "Rapes don't occur when someone  of victims are raped by some­one they know.  
least  expect,"  flashes a gun.  Further,  only  
Hemmerlein said. "It may be someone you  Rapes occur when someone decides  three percent involve a gun and six percent  
would  never  they want control.. "  involve  a  knife,  
believe  would  he said.  
physically attack you." Alcohol con­ Kenneth Cotter St. Joseph County  "Rapes don't occur when someone flashes  
sumption  can  chief deputy  . a  gun,"  Cotter  
play  a  role  in  prosecutor  said.  "Rapes  

increasing the risk of becoming a victim of sexual assault, Hemmerlein said. Women who have had several drinks can lose their inhibitions and also their judgment. 
The level of intoxication can also be detrimental to piecing together the facts of an incident and subsequently building a case, Hemmerlein said. If a victim is so drunk she cannot remember the name of the person she was with or where the assault took place it can be difficult for prosecutors to pursue her attacker. 
"It is not a pleasant situa­tion to sit with a victim and family and to tell them there is little that we can do when the real desire is to go after someone like that and lock them up for a long time," 
occur when someone decides they want control." 
A woman who has been the victim of a sexual assault needs to be examined at a hospital so that physical evi­dence, such as DNA, can be collected and used to prose­cute the assailant. Cotter said. 
"If you are assaulted ... you go to the hospital," Cotter said. "Don't wait until two days later. You can decide later on if you want to coop­erate, you can decide later on if you want to pursue it. We need that evidence now." 
Rape victims are often embarrassed to discuss inci­dents in detail, Cotter said, especially if they feel they might somehow be at fault. Women sometimes hesitate to say whether they went home 
with their assailant or whether they permitted him to kiss them prior to the rape. 
It is crucial that a victim tell investigators exactly what happened leading up to the assault, Cotter said, so they know the whole story and the victim can keep her credibility in the eyes of the jurists. 
Sgt. Bill Kraus of the South Bend Police Department warned the audience about the dangers of drinking and driving and showed images of two vehicles that had been involved in alcohol-related incidents. One was that of a Saint Mary's student who struck and killed a man dur­ing a Notre Dame football game weekend. The other was a vehicle that burst into flames after rolling over ­killing its 18-and 19-year-old female occupants. 
"One of the hardest things is to knock on that door and tell somebody you're not coming home," Kraus said. "I don't want to do it, I have done it too many times. I know I am going to have to do it again before the year is over." 
At the end of the event Holens, who said she herself was a victim of sexual assault at 14, encouraged students to turn to the resources avail­able on campus in case of a sexual assault. She explained why it is important for vic­tims to notify campus securi­ty and local officials. 
"It is something other peo­ple need to know," Rolens said. "If it was a date rape type of situation, if it lwas] someone from here in town, there is going to be someone else who is going to be a vic­tim." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 


Thought you couldn't study abroad? Don't know wllat to do tltis sunnner?
l&l!l1%i!"'';;-,;;;;;:,. 

Quito, Ecuador Paris, France Dublin, Ireland Milan, Italy 
Puebla, Mexico Toledo, Spain Kampala, Uganda 
Come to an information session to learn more... 
Wednesday, February 1, 2006 5:00pm 229 Hayes Healy 
Apply now -deadline is March I, 2006! 
~~-------~~­

THE OBSERVER 







USINESS
Monday, January 30, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

10,907.21 +97.7/.
}ones 
... 
Some: Down: Composite Voj 2,120 lSI ~ 2,900,193,2 
.. 
AMEX 1.824.29 ~2.22 NASDAQ 2,304.23 +21.23 NYSE 8,096.14 +52.14 S&PSOO I ,283.72 +9.89 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 16,460.68 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 5,786.80 +64.2( 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) + 1.29 
+4.87 27. NASDAQ II 0 TR (QQQQ) + 1.35 +0.56 42. INTEL CP (INTC) +0.84 +0.18 21. JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU) +0.32 +0.0 I 3. SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -0.10
-2.28 4. 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND -0.49 -0.23 46.f I0-YEAR NOTE -0.44 -0.20 45.( 5-YEARNOTE -0.20 -0.09 44.: 
3-MONTH BILL +0.12 +0.05 43.: 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) + 1.50 66.9 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -1.30 563.7 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -2.23 76.0 
Excha Rates 
YEN 
117.43 EURO 
0.82 POUND 
0.56: CANADIAN$ 
1.141 

IN BRIEF 

Johnson & Johnson plans takeover 
MINNEAPOI.IS-.Johnson & .Johnson's next taknoVPr taq.tpt could bn 30-ynar-old St. Judo M1~dical Inc., a quint loadnr in implantabln lwart tedmolo1-,ry with a foothold in the promis­ing business of implantable neurological 
dnvk1~s. 
Tho company has about 20 pereent of' tho 
market for implantable heart defibrillators, 
whif:h n~gulatn twarts that boat too fast or 
chaotieally. That's a multibillion market nxped­
I'CI to grow nearly 20 rwrcont annually for tho 
rwxt snvnral ynars. 
"Ttu~sn lnnd tlwmsnlvns to an ideal demo­
graphic or an aging worldwide population," 
said Stnvn Brozak, an analyst for WBB 
Sncuritins LLC. 
Sp!lcutation that .1&.1 would targnt St. .Judo intPnsifiPd last wnok whnn it lost oul to Boston Sdentilk in tho batth~ to acquire Guidant Corp. 

Toyota taking over U.S. auto industry 
J)f(THOIT-Asian automakers will gain morn 
U.S. marknt sham this month dospito Gonnral Motors Corp.'s decision to drop pricos on most vnhidns, analysts predietnd on Friday. 
It's a familiar pattern, and one that has twlpnd drive U.S. automakers to declining prof­its, rnstrueturings that will cost GM and Ford at toast (,4,000 jobs in tho nnxt six yoars. and the possibility that .Japan's Toyota Motor Corp. could toppln CM as the world's largest autornaknr. 

FDA passes new inhalable insulin 
WASIIINCTON-Tho first inhalabln vnrsion of' insulin won I(Hlnral approval Friday, giving mil­lions of adult diabPties an altnrnativn to some of tlw rPgutar injnctions tlwy now enduw. 
Tho Food and Drug Administration said tho l'lizPr lnf'. insulin. to bP mark(~tnd as "Exubnra." is tlw first nnw way of dnliwring insulin sincn thP dismvnry of thn hormone in Uw 1920s. Pliznr jointly dnvnlopnd tho drug and dispnnser with Sanoli-;\vnntis and NPktar Thnrapnuties. 
UsP of rapid-af'.ting inhalnd insulin will not n~plaf'.n tlw rwnd to occasionally injnct thn hor­monP, m:f'.ording to tlw FDA And diabnties will havP to continuo pricking tlwir lingers to test blood sugar lnvnls. 


Deal threatened by regulations 
Guidant depends on Boston Scientific to restore investor confidence in the company 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Just a eouple days artor Guidant Corp. chose Boston Sdentilie Corp. as the winning suitor in a bidding war, tho Massaehusotts medical d1wicn maker has benn hit with ill-timed regulatory troubles as it tries to quickly dose the doal. 
In the mnantirnn, product rncalls haw~ eatnn away at Guidant's prolits. 
Boston Scicntil'ie's stoek sank about 6.6 pnrecnt in heavy trading volumn Friday, denpening the risks for Guidant sharnholdnrs who will voto on a dnal with a $27 billion oll'ering prien tied to tho 11uetua.ting value of Boston Sdentilk's sharns. 
Unless Boston Seiontilk can quiekly restorn invnstor eonlidenee by fixing quality eontrol problems citod by tho Food and Drug ;\dministration al'tnr mar­kets dosed Thursday, tho company eould again facn tho prospnct of sweotening its ol'fer to dose the deal, analysL" said. 
"These guys are already being strntehed by all the things they're trying to do. but. they have to fix this FDA situation bncause it jcopard­izns the dnal," said John Putnam of' Stanford Group Co. "II' they can resolve this 

quickly, a lot of the problems Exchange. going to dotermirw what is with the progrnss or tlw will go away, and this doal The further the prieo goes going to occur in tim rnst of pending mnrgnr," will get done without a bnlow the $22.62 thrnshold, this transaetion," said nwrg­spokesman Stove Tragash whole lot of change." tho less Guidant sharehold­er expert Dick Langan of the said. 
At issue is a stock "collar" ers would get bm:ausn their law firm Nixon Peabody. 'I Boston Scinntilk and its in the Boston Scientific oll'er shares convert to Boston wouldn't be holding the former bidding war rival that Guidant accepted Scientific stock. Guidant edgo ol' my seat if I wern a J&.l sought (iuidant to 
Wednesday to end Boston sharoholdors could thon be Guidant shareholder at this ar.quiro ils business in t.lw Sdentilk's nearly two month more inclinod to rejeet the point." fast-growing marknt for bidding war with Johnson & deal, forcing Boston Boston Scientific and implantable defibrillators 
Johnson. The provision is Scinntific to consider Guidant disdosed in rngula­and par.nmaknrs, and to bol­designed to compensate increasing its price again by tory filings Friday that the stnr thnir positions in tlw Guidant shareholders if agreeing to a higher break-up l'ee oithnr compa­inr.reasingly eompntitiv(~ Boston Scientific's shares exchange ratio, analysts say. ny eould face l'or backing field of drug-eoatnd !wart rmnain below an averagn The eurnmt $HO-per share out ol' the deal is sot at $HOO stints. $22.62 in a 20-day trading ollP.r f()l' Guidant consists of' million. Boston Sdnntil'ie bngan period before tho deal's $42 in cash and $38 in ;\ spokesman for pursuing Ciuidant in narly planned elosing date of stock. Indianapolis-based Guidant Dneombnr. about a ynar Mareh 31. Some observers believe said his company became al'tnr .1&.1 made its first oll'nr 
On Friday afternoon, Boston Seientilic has ade­aware of Boston Scientific's of $25.4 billion. .1&.1 later Boston Scinntilic's shares ldt quatf~ time to satisfy investor problems with the FDA in rnducnd its olli~r bncausl' of $1.52 to dose at $21.63 and concerns about the FDA recent due diligence talks sal'nty problnrns involving traded at about four times troubles. with Boston Sd(~ntilic. Guidant products that haw the stock's normal volume "One day's stock market "We do not expect this led to recalls, lawsuits and on the Now York Stock volatility isn't necessarily development to interl'nro rngulatory investigation. 

Apple to introduce new itunes 
Associated Press Internet access to college leeturns is help('(l spawn tho podeast movnnwnt, nothing nnw, but listnning to them on also was kny.
SAN JOSE, Calif. -In its latest 

portable gadgets is a morn recent ·"Our students an~ digital nativns. 
move to broaden its iPod and iTunes phnnomenon or tho digital ago, Wo seek to rnent our· studnnts wtwrPfranchises, Appln Computer Inc. has spurred in part by the popularity of they are, and iTunns is tho intnrl'acPintroduend "iTunes U," a nationwide podr.asts, or downloadable audio lilns. that most ol' our students an~ already

expansion of a snrvico that makes 

Tho University ol' Missouri of'f'erod familiar with," Potittn said. 
eourso lnctures and other mlucational podcasts of lectures through its Apple's snrviee oll'nrs uniwrsitins a

matnrials accessible via Appln's 

school network before it signed up custornizod Vflrsion of tlw iTII!WS soH­iTunes soft.warn. 
with Apple last summer as a pilot warn, allowing schools to post pod­
The company lwhind tho iPod 

school. But "iTunos U" ol'f'orml a soft­casts, audio books or vidno rontnnt on
portable players, the iTunes online 

ware and service package l'or l'roe, thnir iTunns-alliliatnd Web sitns. Thnmusic store and Macintosh eomputnrs said Keith Politte, the development iTunns-basml matnrial will lw accPssi­had been working with six univorsi­oiTicer at the univnrsity's School of bln on Windows-hasnd or Macintoshtios on tho pilot project f'!Jr more than 
.Journalism. computers and transfnrai>IP t.o 
a year and expanded tho educational The market dominance of Apple's portable dnviens, induding Applp'sprogram this week, inviting other uni­iTunes Music Storo and iPods, which iPods.

versities to sign up. 

--------------------------------------------------. page 8 The Observer +ENTERTAINMENT NEWS Monday, January 30, 2006 
Happy 250th, Wolfie: Mozart fans celebrate in Salzburg 
Aficionados gathered on Friday to honor the birthday ofthe musical master; Austria proves to be extravanganza hotbed 
bishop, after Mozart refused to entation joined in a minuet,
Associated Press follow orders on how to com­under the watchful eyes of a SALZBUHG, Austria -It's a pose. dancemaster, dressed in 18th birthday bash being heard Still, the town where he was century garb. around the world. born on Jan. 27, 1756, was "Front step, back, step, now The cobblestoned and turreted Mozart Central on Friday. back to your places," she city of Mozart's birth was the Always a trove for Mozart intoned, as a group of Japanese · focal point for Friday's 250th kitsch, Salzburg has outdone tourists attempted to curtsy and 
anniversary celebrations -but itself. Stores are stocked with pirouette in a clumsy copy of the the sound of the master's music Mozart beer and wine, Mozart bewigged and corseted dance was being heard around the baby bottles, Mozart milkshakes, troupe going through the move­globe. Mozart knickers and Mozart jig­ments in a live telecast behind 
Orchestras halls and opera saw puzzles -along with the them. houses worldwide planned per­usual T-shirts, calendars and cof-Vienna, which claims Mozart in formances of his fee mugs. his later years, was staging a works. Piano stu-Salzburg was new production of his dents scheduled sprinkled with "ldomeneo" in one of the city's Mozart marathons "For us, Mozart posters proclaim­three opera houses and reviving and puppeteers ing "Happy 'The Magic Flute" in another. 
came with 

were planning Birthday Mozart" Mozart ruled elsewhere as
mother's milk. " 
jubilee performanc­on Friday and the well. es as hundreds of daily Salzburger Public broadcaster Swedish cities across five Andrea Gautsch Nachrichten dis­Hadio set up an Internet radio continents toasted played a full-page station broadcasting Mozart
Salzburg cab driver 
the musical grmius. portrait of a seri-music for 24 hours. The station 
For mezzo-sopra-ous-looking will be up for at least five days, no Angelika "Wunderkind" sit­playing what Swedish Hadio Kirehschlager, Mozart is "a gift ting at the harpsichord, as it pro­called "Wolfie's hits & misses." from God" and "the light I orient claimed: "Salzburg celebrates its Public TV also honored Mozart my life around." great son." with a 12-hour special. 
Salzburg cabbie Andrea On the Salzburg schedule were Performances of his works Gautsch put it more simply Nikolaus Harnoncourt and the were planned by orchestras or Friday: "For us, Mozart came Vienna Philharmonic with opera houses in New York, with mother's milk." Mozart's Piano Concert No. 18. Moscow, Washington, Prague, 
Too much hoopla? Consider Later, Hiccardo Muti was to lead London, Paris, Tokyo, Caracas, this: Mozart wrote his first sym­the orchestra -and renowned Quito, Havana, Mexico City, phonies before turning 10 and singers -through their paces in Taipei, Budapest and scores of his first significant opera at 12. a collage of his works. Many of other cities worldwide. He was instrumental in changing the 12 main events, including America's oldest orchestra, the opera into the form we enjoy outdoor parties complete with New York Philharmonic, got a today. mulled wine, were to start in the jump on the birthday by per­
He was prolific like few others, evening. forming an all-Mozart program creating at least 626 musical Salzburg visitors were advised on Thursday night. The program, works despite living to only age to watch the calories. One of the being repeated Friday and Many classical radio outlets Aunrsperg was accompanied by 
35. Other greats like Beethoven attraction at an open-air event Saturday, included the orches­worldwide were reprogramming the soft piped-in sounds of and Wagner publicly recognized was a gargantuan birthday cake tra's first ever performance of for the day to play only Mozart. Beethoven's Seventh Symphony. their debt to him. weighing in at more than 300 the uplifting "Coronation Mass," Hundreds of marionettes were to But the seeming protest against 
But he had plenty of detractors pounds. which Mozart wrote in 1779. take to the stage in excerpts of too much Mozart was short-lived. in his day. In Salzburg's ornate Neue Even Nashville, more famous his operas in the German city of "Oops, how did that happen?" 
Some history books depict his Residenz museum, visitors eyed for country than classical, sched­Augsburg, where his father was tittered waitress Anna Santiago, tenure in Salzburg ending inglo­Mozart's clothes brush and uled a musical tip of the hat to born. when asked about the· choice of riously in 1781 with a kick in the tobacco tins as they scurried Amadeus, with the city's sympho­Back in Salzburg, not everyone music. Within minutes, a Mozart bottom from a servant of a through the "Viva Mozart" exhib­ny orchestra performing his was in all-Mozart-all-the-time concerto was wafting through patron, the city's imperious arch-it. Others at the interactive pres-Piano Concerto No. 21. mode. Breakfast at the Hotel the air. 




Poll proves Jessica Alba is more than 'eye candy' 
AskMen.com survey shows actress as top choice for 'long-term girlfriend' material, followed by Miller and folie 
entirely accurate reflection of sheerly surface appreciation." "Access Hollywood" correspon­Eva Longoria. 
Associated Press what a reader strives for in The rest of the top 10, in dent Maria Menounos, Charlize Britney Spears -a main­NEW YORK -More guys their long-term relationships, order, is Brazilian model Theron, Jessica Biel, singer stay of such lists in previous want Jessica Alba for their but at the same time, it's not a Adriana Lima (No. 1 last year), Amerie, Natalie Portman and years -failed to chart. girlfriend than any other woman, according to AskMen.com's top 99 list for 
HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH 
2006. The 24-year-old actress tops 
International Film Festival
the Web site's list ranking female celebrities on their 
January 31~February 2, 2006

"long-term relationship mate­rial." Alba is followed by 
Saint Mary's College, Vander Vennet Theatre 
"Alfie" star Sienna Miller and the ubiquitous Angelina Jolie. 
Free and open to the public

The list will be posted Tuesday. James Bassil, editor-in-ehief 
Tues., Jan. 31 Wed., Feb. 1 Thur., Feb. 2
of AskMen.com, told The 
7p.m. 7p.m. 7p.m.
Assoeiated Press the list was determined by the rankings of 
Mardi Gras: State of Fear The Education of
2.5 million readers and by the 

Made in China Shelby Knox 
site's staff. 
Pamela Yates, Paco de

Headers of the online maga­
Onis, and Peter Kinoy, 

David Redmon, USA, Marion Lipschutz and USAJPeru, 2005, 94min. 
zine were asked to vote 
2004, 72 min. Rose Rosenblatt, USA,
aceording to the woman they 
would most want a relation­
In English and Spanish 2005, 76 min. 

In English, Cantonese,
ship with, would consider 
Fujianese and Mandarin with English subtitles. In English.
marrying or thought best-suit­
with English subtitles. 
ed to be the mother of their children. or eourse, few have ever accused Alba, Miller or .lolie 
Saint Ma~s Colleg~ @ 

of being short on movie star 
CEI'ffiR FOR WOMENS 
The Joan B. Kroc Institute 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 

ll'mR(ULnliW.l.w>ERSHIP FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE STUDIES
glamour. 
"We encouraged readers not 
Sponsored by The Centerfor Women's InterCultural Leadership, the English Department, the Women's Studies Program
to go on looks alone," Bassil 
and the InterCultural Studies Program at Saint Mary's College, and by the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International
said. "I don't believe it's an 
· Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame 
'-----------­



Monday, January 30, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 

Abercrombie & Fitch 
Accenture 
Alliance Benefit Group 
Allstate Insurance 
Amate House 
American Eagle Outfitters 
American Electric Power Company, 
Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant 
Ameriprise Financial Services 
Anning Johnson 
AT&T
~ Augustinian Volunteer Program 
AXA Advisors 
Becker Professional Review 
Bethanna• 
Better World Books 
~ 
BISYS Private Equity Services• 
Boston Consulting Group 
Bowen Center 
BUNAC USA -a. 0 Camp Sweeney 
E 
Camp Tecumseh YMCA Caremark 
Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese 
of Chicago 
Gl 
CCA Strategies Center for Social Concerns, Notre Dame 
Central Intelligence Agency 
C.H. Robinson Worldwide Chicago Police Department Citigroup Citizens Action Coalition City Year Cleveland Clarity Consulting Coachmen Industries Coca-Cola North America College Football Hall of Fame Countrywide Financial Corporation Credit Suisse Crowe Capital Markets Crowe Chizek and Company Deloitte Deutsche Bank DHL Express E&J Gallo Winery EchoStar Communications 
(Dish Network) 
EDS 
Enterprise Rent A Car 
Epic Systems 
Ernst & Young 
ESPN 
Federated Insurance 
Fifth Third Bank 
Fund for Public Interest Research 
GElCO 
General Dynamics 
General Electric 
General Mills 
Goldman Sachs 
Grand Prairie Services 
Behavioral Healthcare Grassroots Campaigns Herren Associates• Hewlett-Packard Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos Hills tone Restaurant Group Holy Cross Associates Huron Consulting Group Hyatt Indiana Dunes Environmental 
Learning Center 
lnfosys Technologies 
Integra Realty Resources 
Interlochen Center for the Arts 
Internal Revenue Service 
. Johnson & Johnson 
JPMorgan Securities 
Kiewit Western 
KONE 
KPMG 
L-3 Communications 
Lands' End 
Liberty Mutual Insurance 
Little Brothers -Friends of the Elderly 
Lockheed Martin 
Lutron Electronics 
Madison Center for Children 
Marine Corps Officer Program 
McGiadrey & Pullen 
Mercy Home for Boys and Girls Microsoft Corporation Midway Amusement Games Morgan Stanley Morningstar Motorola Navigant Consulting Nestle USA NExTT Solutions Northrop Grumman Northwestern Mutual Financial 
Network -The Holter Group Nova Group of Japan Oak lawn Office Depot OMD Our Lady of Guadalupe Middle School Park National Bank Peace Corps Pinnacle Entertainment* PPG Industries Press Ganey PricewaterhouseCoopers Procter & Gamble Progressive Insurance Prudential Capital Group Public Defender Service for the District 
of Columbia Raytheon RBC Precision Products Reebok International Retail Expert Rolls.Royce Smith Barney Smithsonian Institution Speedway SuperAmerica* St. Paul Travelers Starcom Media Services 
The Menta Group UBS* United States Steel Corporation University Directories University of Notre Dame, 
Human Resources US Air Force US Army Health Care US Department of Justice, 
Anti-Trust Division US Navy Recruiting District Vanguard Verizon Wireless Walgreens Wesco Distribution Whirlpool Corporation Wisconsin Badger Camp Work and Travel Ireland 



recent registrants 
Academy Prep Centers 
AmeriCorps St. Louis Eaton Corporation FlightSafety Academy Food Bank of Northern Indiana 
GMS Trading* Hampton Roads Youth Center IES 
JPMorgan Chase Ken Herceg & Associates 
Madison Police Department 
Memorial Sloan-Kettering 
Miller Brewing Company' 
National City Corporation 
Protiviti 
Pulte Homes 
Rodale Publishing 
Sentry Insurance 
Smart and Associates 
Social Security Administration 
Sun Life Financial 
Technology Services Group 
US Department of Justice, US Drug 
Enforcement Administration 
*Not attending fair, apply an Go IRISH 

social service (DeBartolo, Room 138) 
6:30pm 
Smithsonian Institution, museum and research -A&L majors and College of Science (DeBartolo, Room 140) 
ESPN, finance, marketing, production (DeBartolo, Room 141) 
Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, healthcare and research (DeBartolo, Room 136) 
7:30pm 
American Eagle Outfitters, fashion retail (Dooley Room, LaFortune) 
8:00pm 
Camp Sweeney, a nonprofit camp for children with diabetes (DeBartolo, Room 131) 
8:30pm 
Microsoft, technology (Montgomery Auditorium, LaFortune) 

wednesday

.-'~~ febnaary1
~,­
12:00-2:30pm 
State Farm Insurance State PIRGs Steak n Shake 





diversity reception
Stryker Instruments Talbots Target 

monogram room, joyce center 
Teach for America 
all are welcome to attend 

4p.m-8pm career & internship fair 
joyce center north dome 
hockey rink side, enter gate 3 student ID required 


findoutmore! 

For more information about the participating organizations, job descriptions, and contacts, access The Career Center website: 
• 
Go to careercenter.nd.edu/undergrad.php 

• 
Click on Go IRISH 

• 
Enter your NetiD (AFSID) and Password, then click on Log in 

• 
Click on Search Jobs/Internships 

• 
Click on Jobs/Internships for Notre Dame Students 

• 
Scroll down to Keyword Search, type in WCIF or the name of the organization, then click on Search 

• 
For an alphabetical list of: -Organizations, click on "Organization" -Positions, click on "Position Title" 


The Career Center 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

every college • every major • internships • full-time 
THE OBSERVER 








IEWPOINT
page 10 
Monday, January 30, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
1'0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas Ass1: MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTJIIIT MJ\111\GING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 63!-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoricy of the Editor in Chief, Managing EditOr, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. C'..ommemaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letrers to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Qzmtions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Claire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000} is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation ~riods. A~ub.scriptiun ro The Obse!tvt'f is $100 for one academic year: $55 for tmc ~emester. 
Tile Obstrvtr is published -lt: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send add res• corrections ro: Notre Dame, IN 46SS6..0779 The:-Observer Periodical post~c paid at Notre Dame P.O. Bnx 779 and addition;~! mailing offices. <l24 South Dining Hall 
Nom: Dame, IN 46556·0n9 
Tht: Ob:;crvcr is a meml)er \)f the ~oc~1cd PTb!i. All rt:pmduction rlg\m are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Graphics Kelly Meehan Graham Ebetsch Karen Langley Sports 
Nicole Zook Matt Puglisi Laura Chris Khorey 
Baumgartner Tim Kaiser Viewpoint Scene Joey King Molly Griffin . 
Margie Rosmonowski 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 



Ad suggests false association 
I write in response to an advertisement on page 9 of The Observer on Friday, Jan. 27. Earlier last week I was invited by phone to speak at a dinner/panel on race and terrorism this upeoming Wednesday. As I enjoy speaking about terrorism and with students, I readily agreed and was promised a follow up e-mail with details on how to foeus my remarks. This e-mail never arrived. Today, whatever group is sponsoring the talk placed an ad in The Observer equating Sept. 11 and its "pre­sumed" leader with the Iraq War and President George W. Bush. Indeed, Bush comes out looking about 10 times worse given the body counts provided. 
As my name is also in the ad, the ad may be taken by some or many that this comparison is one that I would make and one I believe in. 
I write to tell the Notre Dame community that I would not make such a comparison, and that I do not believe that comparison holds in almost any dimension. While I lament and mouri1 anyone's violent death and welcome debates about public policy, in my view the educational benefit of this comparison comes from dissecting and debunking it. But as I appear to be linked to the argument this ad is trying to make, I am dismayed and insulted by this ad. 
I call for a public apology by whoever placed this ad. I critique the professionalism of any group that would place a surprise ad with such injurious implications to my reputation and that would not clearly identify themselves in such a politically charged ad. Moreover, I urge The Observer to not accept essentially anonymous political ads in the future. 
Although I have been blindsided and insult­ed, I will not flinch or boycott. I look forward to debating and critiquing this ad and its implications on Wednesday. 
Dan Lindley Assistant Professor department of political science Jan. 27 

Interrace Forum to discuss terrorism 
The February Interrace Forum sponsored by Multicultural Student Programs and Services titled Terrorism: Then and Now .is addressing the perspective on domestic ter­rorist acts inflicted by supremacist groups such as the KKK and Arian Nation. Pro­nationalist groups like the Black Panthers have been labeled as such because of their tactics. Hence the discussion Wednesday will broaden the definition of terrorism to include those implemented by American cit­izens toward other Americans based on eth­nic, racial and religious differences. 
The Feb. 27 advertisement in no way reflects the beliefs of Professor Daniel Lindley nor the Office of Multicultural Student Programs and Services. An apology was extended for this reason and for those who may have been offended by the cutting edge approach. 
Iris Outlaw Director Multicultural Student Programs and Services 
Jan. 29 

OBSERVER POLL 
What do you think of the Board of Trustees meeting in Rome? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

"Without freedom of thought there can be


:Submit aLetter! 
no such thing as wisdom, and no such thing as public liberty without freedom of speech."
,to the Editor at I
~ 

.. .. . · ..... ·... ··········· .......... ·.. . . ... . . ·. I 
Benjamin Franklin 
diplomat

:·:~ www.ndsmcobserver.com I! 
·. . , . ::'' 
New approaches for feminists 
I feel that those who are ardently in support of the "Vagina Monologues" are making an egregious error when it comes to their approach of dealing with Father John Jenkins. It seems that they have chosen the "Vagina Monologues" as the sole medium in which the abolition of violence against women is to be advanced. It appears that they believe that if the "Vagina Monologues" are banned, that this is tantamount to banning the advancement of such a worthy cause. Even feminists question the goals of the "Vagina Monologues." Pro-sex feminist Betty Dodson, author of "Our Bodies, Ourselves," saw the play as having a negative and restrictive view of sexuality and an anti-male bias. She called the play a blast of hatred at men and heterosexuality. If the play is so contentious, why not explore other mediums that will allow them to gain the public's attention? 
Furthermore, why not turn all of the attention now focused on the "Vagina Monologues" into something that will benefit their cause? There's a saying in marketing, "Any publicity is good pub­licity." If Jenkins does decide to scale back the event, why not set up a conference on violence against women? If Jenkins decides to eut off their ability to collect funds, why not set up a dinner to ben­efit the victims of domestic violence instead? Judging from the pub­lic outcry, I'm sure these events would be well attended. 
One thing cannot be denied: those who are strong supporters are passionate about their cause. I hope that this passion will not be wasted debating whether the "Vagina Monologues" should be allowed the full support of University facilities. II' Jenkins does decide to scale back the event, I hope that their passion can be redirected into other mediums that will achieve the abolition of violence against women and the betterment of our society. 
Chris Weinacht sophomore Carroll Hall Jan. 25 

Academic freedom or 
conservative.~~Catholicism? 
I am appalled by Father John Jenkins' speeches concerning the scope of academic freedom. Hearing him speak of limiting this indispensable right makes me worry about the direction in which this institution is headed. 
Allowing a dialogue to occur doesn't mean the University endorses what is contained within the discourse and materials presented to spark it. If a professor assigns his/her students to read a speech given by Adolf Hitler to inspire discussion, does this mean that the University or the professor is endorsing the content of the speech? I think it is obvious that the answer to that question is an emphatic "No." The same allowance should apply to the "Vagina Monologues" and the Queer Film Festival, especially since they both promote acceptance and diversity, as opposed to Hitler's hate-filled words. 
Why is Jenkins so afraid of these topics being discussed? Does he not think that the foundation of this University is strong enough to deal with differing opinions? In order for an individual's values to develop, he/she must be exposed to and seriously consider all that is available. In Amish communities, the elders send young adults into the world for one year to experience all that it holds. They are then given the choice to return or remain a part of outside society. The elders embrace the idea that questioning leads to the strength­ening and expansion of one's beliefs. No justice is done for faith when those who have it are blind as to why they believe what they do. 
The most vital question remains. Is the primary goal of Notre Dame to promote, among its students, the freedom to learn and develop an identity, or is the chief objective a surreptitious indoctri­nation of conservative Catholicism under the guise of allowing aca­demic freedom? This requires serious discernment by University administrators. Even Du Lac states, "The intellectual interchange essential to a university requires, and is enriched by, the presence and voices of diverse scholars and students. The University is com­mitted to constructive and critical engagement with the whole of human culture." 
I couldn't have said it better myself. 
Joanna Basile Center for Social Concerns Jan. 25 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 


THE OBSERVER 








IEWPOINT
Monday, January 30, 2006 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

More than just the heterosexual male point ofview 
Through thn hetnrosexual main gaze, I lnarnml about my snxuality at Notre Damn. With tho help of one male profes­sor, I learrwd how it feels to be sexually harassnd. With tho hnlp of' many male students, I came to understand that pic­turns of' nudn girls in dorm rooms would bn a nmlity I would havn to aecept. 
It is accnptabln for the heterosexual mall~ to nxpross his own sexuality on campus and f'or him to gaze at, harass and mock wonwn's and homosnxuals' snxwtlitins. With thn prohibition of' tho "Vagina Monologuns" and tho Quenr l;ilm Fnstival, tho nnw prnsident is Pxpliritly saying that womnn and homo­snxuals should not bn abln to nxprnss tlwir own snxualitins on eampus. Thnir vokns, thnir gazns and thnir introspne­tions into tlwir own snxual identiltes must rnmain quintml, and lnrt to the het­'~rosl~xual main gazn. 
l.nt's bn critical of tho "Catholic val­uns" the nnw prnsidnnt is advoeating: tlwy arn "Catholic views" as defined f'rom a lwt1~rosnxual male point of view. This point of' vinw targnts those who are dill'nront f'rom it: it targots non-males and non-hetnrosexuals. These happen to lw lwtnrosnxual women and homosexual wornnn and men. 
l.ikn I mentioned above, I was sexually harasstHI by a professor at Notre Dame. I complained, and a couple of years latnr, diseovered that the male coun­selor had not filed my complaint as a "f'ormal" one. Two years after my ind­dent, the same professor harassed another student. The student com­plainnd and yet, the professor remains at the sdwol. My senior year, I partici­patnil in tho "Vagina Monologues" and startnd hearing my own voice again; it was very mnpowering. When the presi­dent is spnaking of "Catholic values," he is spnaking of' the disempowerment of womnn and homosexuals to speak about thoir minds and bodies, about their entirn selves as eomplete human beings. 
Lot's explore the interpretative powers of this nnw leader at Notre Dame. If Mother Theresa, instead of Father John .Jenkins. had posed a talk to the Notre Dame campus about "Catholic values," do you think she would have focused on quieting the snxual voices of non-het­nrosexual and non-male students? Or do you think that her "Catholic values" would have induded the voices of the entire community, exploring a dialogue botween our minds and bodies, between our thoughts and emotions? 
Mother Theresa wrote, "I pray that you will understand the words of Jesus, 'Love one another as I have loved you.' Ask yourself, 'llow has he loved me? Do I really love others in the same way?'" 
When we discuss and define "Catholic values," let's not forget that a religious priest is interpreting the community's values. My oxample of Mother Theresa and Father Jenkins illustrates this divide in Catholicism: We can interpret "Catholic values" to reflect the inclusive values of social justice theology or the nxelusive values of a doctrinal faith. Do we want to draw on those public lig­ures, like Jesus, Mother Theresa, Gandhi and Martin Luther King Jr., who embraced all those around them, or on those ligures who have sought to exdude womnn, blacks and homosexu­als' voices from any possible publie dia­logue? 
Lflt's question our identity. Do we, the Notre Dame community, want to base our values on the tradition of social jus­tice theology, or are we embracing the doctrines of the Vatican? It is this same Vatican that excludes women and gays from the priesthood. These priests are those who create religious doctrine and interpret our "Catholic values" while purposefully excluding women and homosexuals from this process. Yet, it is this doctrine and these values that Jenkins draws on. How can these doc­trines bind me if, as a woman, I am not represented in this governing body of priests? How can women and homosex­uals empower these priests, like Jenkins, to interpret "Catholic values" when these same priests are not even allowing women and homosexuals to help define the "Catholic values?" By requesting the exclusion of women's and homosexuals' sexual voices from Notre Dame's campus, Jenkins is seeking a gag order without representation. Perhaps another Boston Tea Party is in order. 
OK, line, Father Jenkins, I see the bright side. At least you're offering aca­demic freedom for those just like you: Those who perform as heterosexual . males in the public sphere, and who do not challenge the heterosexual male Vatican's interpretation of the biblical text and Catholic tradition. 
Maribel Morey alumnus class of 2003 Jan. 27 

One concern of President John Jenkins about the "Vagina Monologues" at Notre Dame is, he tells us, the "appearance of endorsement" of some of the values he and others lind in the play. As he said, "The repeated performance of the play and the publidty surrounding it suggest that the University endorses certain themes in the play, or at least finds them compatible with its values." As Jenkins clarified in his talk. the University does endorse some values he linds in the play but does not endorse others. This seems to be mov­ing Jenkins toward the conclusion that he must not allow tire event on campus in any way that permits heavy adver­tising. 
I o!Ter the following alternative. If there is indeed confusion about what values from the play the University does and does not endorse, Jenkins and others authorized to spnak oLlicial­ly for the University can speak out forcefully about these issues. Jenkins did this in his talk when pledging that the University stands against, for example., violence against women but also stands against views of sexual freedom divorced from Catholic moral teaehing. Surely high profile state­ments from the president such as these, reported widely in both eampus and South Bend media, can combat the mistaken "appearance of endorse­ment." If needed, reminders of what values the University officially endors­es and rejects can be provided, for example, during the week of the play. This educational step would contribute to a healthy dialogue about Catholic values, alternative perspectives, and the role of Notre Dame in a pluralistic society. Adding the voice of Notre Dame to these diseussions seems preferable to both the limitations on academic freedom hinted at by Jenkins and the silence on these matters from Father Edward Malloy (which appar­ently Jenkins believes allowed the mis­taken "appearance of endorsement" to continue). 
I fear, however, that other remarks from Jenkins show that he has broader objections to the understanding of aca­demic freedom at the heart of higher ~ducation today. These deeper misun­derstandings of Academic Freedom displayed by Jenkins are, I predict, what will eventually lead to serious conflict on campus. I offer two exam-
pies of what appear to be thesn deeper 
misunderstandings. 
The first emerges most dearly in his distinction between academic frnndom for individual faeulty and aeadnmie f'rendom for departrnnnts. In addition to displaying an apparent hu:k of f'amiliarity with tho centrality of collab­orative work in many academic disci­plines, Jenkins apparnntly fails to rnal­ize that nxactly the sarnn principles of dissociation arc in play in both of those eases. Nnither individual faculty nor individual dnpartmnnts arn gnnnrally authoriznd to spnak on bnhalf' of t.hn University. DnpartrnnnL-;, just likn indi­vidual faculty, c.annot and thnrnf'orn do not speak f'or the University in, n.g., hosting spnaknrs, workshops or otlwr activities unless explicitly grantnd pm·­mission to do so. Whnrn then~ is a lack of clarity, involved partins have a duty to explicitly note that they do not spnak on behalf of the University. And if' in some cases there is any improper "appearance of endorsnment" that Jenkins believes damages the University in any way, darifying state­ments of' the kind suggnstod above are entirely appropriate. It is amazing to me that Jenkins showed no familiarity with these central eomponents of aea­demic freedom in his talk. 
The second, deeper misunderstand­ing is this. Jenkins seems to think that the view that his judgment as presi­dent ultimately grounds proper inquiry by groups of faculty on campus is com­patible with the recognition of the . need for "vigorous defense" and recog­nition of the "saered value" of <u:adem­ic freedom. These views are not com­patible. Within the well defined limits of mutual dissociation, it is individual faculty and groups of faculty who are trusted to pursue and disseminate knowledge as we son lit, subjeet only to dismissal on grounds specilind in our contracts. These principles are clearly articulated in foundational higher educational documents and endorsed almost unanimously in American higher education. If in the end Jenkins abandons these eommit­ments, he is not vigorously defending academic freedom, he is abandoning it. 
Fritz Warfield A~sociatc Professor dcpanmem of philosophy Jan. 25 

Open dialogue won't make University any less Catholic 
c;rowth dons not mire tradition; it 1mhances it. A-; a Notrn Damn alumnus, I have seen Notrn Damn evolvn over the years, none of which has made the univer­sity any loss Catholic. I am encouraged by tho growing number of students and faeul­ty who rnalizo that fear of change is what driv1~s some at Notre Damn to censor hon­nst diseoursn, just bncausn they are not use to talking about "dillkult issues." This tear must and nm bn overcome. 
NotrP I >arne has ehangnd for the bntter. Though enrtain issues at Notre Dame have traditionally had a limited forum for dia­logun, induding gay right-; and the exploitation of women, the University has eome a lohg way in giving voiee· to the underrepresented. The annual Queer Film Fostival and "Vagina Monologues" have started conversations about what it means to be gay and Catholic and what it means to bH a woman who embraces her sexuali­ty. These forums, in all their artistic diversi­ty, f(>ster conversation about the larger societal questions of human right<>, diversi­ty, and morality-isn't that precisnly what a Catholie university environment should f(>ster'? With open and free forums in which to discuss complex issues and diverse view­point<>, students will have a more authentic educational experience, making them increasingly prepared for the real world. 
I am proud of Father John Jenkins' deci­sion to host an open forum with faeulty and students to discuss academic freedom in a Catholic university environment. Open dia­loguP is the greatest tool to finding com­mon ground, and it is through such discus­sion that people strengthen their convic­tions and better understand their bnlief systems. Notre Dame must allow for this artistic and academic freedom, particularly as it relates to the Queer Film Festival and "Vagina Monologues," so that light might continue to shine through douds of fear and ignorance. 

I n~membcr a formnr Notrn Dame Theology professor who once taught us that tradition must evolve in order li1r it-; meaning to be prnservnd. Fostering opnn and fme dialogue about gay right-; and other issues that rnlatn to minoritins will stmngthen, not wnaken, Notrn Damn's mis­sion of inclusiveness, making our University truly Catholic. 
Ken Seifert alumnus class of 2003 Jan. 25 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE

page 12 
Monday, January 30, 2006 

Bel 
A look into the inspiration beh 
SHOW REVIEW 
American 'Office' makes British formula its own 
between Tim and Dawn is heart

By CASSIE BELEK wrenching because Dawn is engaged
Scene Critic 
and has been fo-r five years. 
The American version of "The 

After NBC destroyed "Coupling," a Office" takes these situations and wildly popular British sitcom that was gives the characters new names. shipped over the pond with the same Michael Scott (Carel!) is the new scripts but fresh faces, fans of the David, Dwight (Rainn Wilson) is the BBC show "The Office" were anything new Gareth, Jim (John Krasinski) is 
but pleased to hear that NBC had made a new conquest with this beloved gem of office satire. Their uneasiness was justi­fied. "The Office" was just that amazing, and the possibility of seeing it crash and 
The Office 
Network: NBC Time: Thursdays at 9:30 p.m. Starring: Steve Carrell, Rainn Wilson, John Krasinski, Jenna Fischer, B.J. Novak the new Tim, and Pam (Jenna Fischer) is the new Dawn. Even with the same basic plot, the American version makes the show its own. 
It has already surpassed the 

burn in, an Americanized version was unbearable. 
E~eh.' though fans were expecting the· worst, developments offered hope for the American "Office." Steve Carell, a comedic talent who appeared as Brick Tamland in "Anchorman," 
signed on to star in the series. Ricky Gervais gave his stamp of approval to the project. NBC's "The Office" was to keep the same types of characters and simi­lar plot threads, but only the pilot would be the same script from the original series. 
The BBC version of ~'The Office" is a mocku­mentary that follows the exploits of workers in a paper company in a dull industrial town in original in number of episodes -the BBC version had only. two 6-episode seasons and one two-hour special ­and therefore must keep itself fresh with even more zany office events. 
The characters from the two ver­sions are similar to each other, but 

Fans of both series continue to debate which show is better. It may be impossible to find an answer, especially when the American version is still taking shape. 
the American version has deviated from the origi­nal in some ways. Michael is slightly more aware of the world than David. When he isn't fak­ing for the documentary crew or trying to be everyone's best friend, he actually becomes a straight-headed human being with feelings. Dwight on the other hand is less believable than his counterpart Gareth. His character is exaggerated for comedic reasons, but 

Britain. The beauty of the concept is that it tries to stick to reality as much as possible and makes it funny. People really live in boring British cities, work for paper companies, and often wonder how they got there in the first place. 
Gervais stars as office manager David Brent, who believes that he is 
the funniest boss ever. IIis scenes are excruciat­ingly painful to watch because he embarrasses himself over and over again without realizing it. He firmly believes that, "Those of you who think you know every­thing an~ annoying to those of us who do." 
His self-appointed 
when putting the two side by side, Gareth is a better character because he is more real. 
Fans of both series continue to debate which show is better. It may be impossible to find an answer, espe­cially when the American version is still taking shape in its second season. It's doubtful that the new version will 

The beauty of the concept is that it tries to stick to reality as much as possible and makes it funny. 
right-hand man is Gareth (Mackenzie Crook), who is possibly even more clueless than David. He is also obsessed with the military and giving himself authority. 
Tim (Martin Freeman), Gareth's rival in the office, is over-qualified for his job and survives through the day only by teaming up with Dawn (Lucy Davis). the receptionist, to play practi­cal jokes on Gareth and to make fun of David·. The romantic tension ever be able to match such moments as David performing "Free Love on the Free Love Freeway" at an office in­service, but the new series isn't trying to be the BBC version. It's try­ing to be its own distinct series, and it has thus far been successful. 
David and Michael are 
the driving characters of both series and they can be summed up in one quote from Michael: "Would I rather be feared or loved? Urn ... Easy, both. I want people to be afraid of how much they love me." 
Viewers might be afraid of how much they love both series and will find that each are distinct and contin­uously hilarious. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 

'THE OFFICE': AN AMERICAN PERSPECTIVE 
By TAE ANDREWS Scene Writer 

Britain and America may share a com­mon language, but they have very dif­ferent senses of humor. NBC's decision to remake the BBC's show "The Office" for American audiences has caused a great debate about which type of humor is better and, ultimately, which version of the show is funnier. 
For those interested in some quirky British humor (think exceedingly, dry wit, usually followed by vigorous golf clapping, a round of tea sipping, and hearty cries of, "Cheerio!"), the DVD box set of the first two seasons of the British version is clearly the way to go. However, for people whose preferred adjective for their comedy is "hilarious," the American version of the show is the better option. 
The basic premise here is much akin to the relationship between the Magna Carta and the United States Constitution: the Americans have taken a good idea and made it their own. Airing on Thursdays at 9:30 p.m. on NBC, "The Office" is an uproarious take· on the exceedingly banal minutiae of cubicle life in the corporate sector. 
Front man Steve Carel!, the star of last year's "The 40-Year-Old Virgin," plays egomaniacal boss Michael Scott. Employing both over-the-top narcissism and self-delusions of grandeur, Carell manages to convey just how pathetic Scott's life is and how he leans so heavi­lyon his surrogate "family." Carell won a 2006 Golden Globe award for Best Actor in a Television Comedy for his performance in "The Office." 
Surrounding Michael Scott is a cast of tremendously funny characters, includ­ing Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), the resident office brainiac with aspirations of corporate domination. Especially amusing are Dwight's various schemes at corporate collusion aimed at better· ing his own position within the ranks of Dunder-Mifflin. 
Jenna Fischer plays Pam Beesly, the deadpan secretary who spends much of her time humoring her boss' various ridiculous antics. In between receiving calls, Pam often conspires with sales rep Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) to come up with new and entertaining ways to tor­ture Dwight. 
One of the show's consistent themes is Pam and Jim's forbidden romance. This match is prevented by Pam's engage­ment to the markedly insensitive Roy, an archetypal man's man who works in the company warehouse. Rounding out the crew is Ryan Howard (B.J. Novak), the office "temp" who, despite the transitive nature of his profession, has somehow managed to stick around well into the show's second season. 
Some highlights from the first season include: 
+"Diversity Day," an episode in which a diversity educator is brought in after Michael does an ill-advised rendition of a Chris Rock standup routine. However, after displaying extreme ignorance, Michael decides to hold his own version of "diversity day" and educate his coworkers. 
+Unwilling to make cuts in benefits himself, Michael de~egates responsibility f0r downgrading health care packages'<> 
· for Dunder-Mifflin employees to Dwight, IJ.' in the episode "Health Care." Dwight, relishing his newfound power, proceeds to makes slashes beyond what is neces­sary "for the good of the company." +In "Hot Girl." a corporate saleswom­an stops by the office peddling pocket­books, and Michael (in addition to the entire male staff) is instantly smitten with her. After noticing her resemblance to Pam, Michael proceeds to remark, "You're like the new and improved Pam. Pam 6.0." The show's brilliance lies in the often-absurd interaction between Michael and his employees. Filmed as a documen­tary, Steve Carell is perfectly ridiculous as the regional manager of Dunder­Mifflin's Scranton branch. Well-written and smart -after its first season, the show was nominated for three Writer's Guild of America Awards -Steve Carel! makes it well worth the time to head in to "The Office." ----------------­Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of www.bbc.co.uk Clueless office manager David Brent (Ricky Gervais), left, and his right-hand man Gareth (Mackenzie Cook) are two of the stars of the BBC version of "The Office." 


THE OBSERVER 






CENE

Monday, January 30, 2006 

ind The Desk 
NBC's hit comedy 11 The Office" 
'THE OFFICE' AND BEYOND: CORPORATE HUMOR 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN A.sistant Sn·ne Editor 
Working in an oiTiee is hard, but, ironically, tho work itself is often the nasiost part of the job. The invented lingo, forced fraternization with co­workers, incompetent bosses and irwnmsing hurnaueradns, havn madn eorporat1~ eulturn thn hardest part of' many jobs. Naturally, these nlaborate­ly eonstructod and often illogical busi­rwss realms have bocome a major soureo of eomie matnrial. 
Tho comie strip, "Dilbert," which was syndicatod in 19S9, was an early foray into parodying oflico culturn in Anwriea. The comic focuses on l>illwrt, an engineer. and his daily strugglos in an office world dominated hy nr hi c~~~ s an d i neo m p e t e n c e . "Dillwrt" makns fun of' everything from duoless bosses to labyrinthine bureaucracies and laughs at how ran~ly rPal work seems to be reward­od at big companies. 
In 200 I, the strip appearod in ovor 
; 2,000 nllwspapers In 50 countries and was translatnd into over 19 lan­guages, rnvnaling the universality of ofl'il:o culturn around the world. Dilhnrt's crnator, Scott Adams, was inspirml to start the strip whiln work­ing at l'aeilic Bell in various engineer­ing groups. TIH~ comic nmHrged from his doodling, and the characters took on attributes of his co-work11rs and bosses. 
The comic created many spin-off's, induding a number of' best-selling books, calendars, apparel and even an ill-l'atnd IIJIJIJ cartoon featuring the voie1~s of Daniel Stern and Chris Elliot. 
A dassie example of poking fun at lifo in the business world is the film "OITiee Space." Tho movie parodies every aspnet of ol'lke culture, indud­
ing the commute, the paper work, the annoyances of micro-management and the annoying behavior of co­worker!>. 
At the center of the !'ilm is Peter Gibbons !Hon Livingston), who under­goes hypnosis and completely stops caring about his job. This, ironically, makes him more valuable to the com­pany. After his friends are fired, though, they conspire to exploit the company's inner bureaucracy and to steal from it. 
The film was written and directed by Mike Judge, who is well known for his animated series "Beavis and Butt­head" and "King of the Hill." The film didn't enjoy immediate success at the box-office, but has slowly become a cult hit on IWD. 
The movie managed to nail many of tho most frustrating aspects of corpo­rate life, but its popularity might actu­ally stem from the fact that it allows its characters to live out the fantasies of' many office workers, ineluding telling their bosses exactly how they feel and destroying oflice equipment . with a baseball bat. 
The British television show "The Offiee" revealed that making fun of "corporate America" was not limited in any way to America. The show is essentially a fake documentary about daily life in a small British paper com­pany in the industrial town of Slough. At its heart is David Brent (Rieky Gervais), a horrible boss made worse by the fact that he thinks that he's the smartest, funniest boss ever. 
While the show watches him make a fool of himself in a variety of ways, it also reveals how his staff copes not only with an incompetent boss but also with the inanities of daily life in the office. 
"The Office" is, at times, a painful show to watch. It is rife with lengthy, 
Graphic by GRAHAM EBETSCHfThe Observer 
awkward pauses, horribly uncomfort­able moments and people saying instantly regrettable things. This high level of discomfort, though, makes the show all the more real and allows it to show the true pain that life among the cubicles can be. 
The cult success of the British ver­sion of "The Office" made it natural fodder for an American remake. The NBC version rrioves the show from Slough to Scranton and swaps Hieky Gervais' David Brent for Steve Carrell's Michael Scott. 
The American version of "The Office" began with episodes that were remakes of the British version, but after that it began to take its own tra­jectory. The show is eloser to American corporate culture than the British version, but the awkward nature of the show remains. · 
Initially, audiences· weren't very moved by the American remake of "The Office." Between die-hard fans of the British version and people who didn't "get" the concept of the show, it had a ·hard time winning over viewers. The show got a boost when its star, Stlwe Carrell, best known for his work on "The Daily Show" and in support­ing roles in films like "Bruce Almighty," had a huge hit with the film "The 40-Year-Old Virgin." It has since moved to a new time slot and has slowly accrued a wider audience and greater popularity. 
Parodies of office culture run the gamut from comics to movies to tele­vision shows, and while they havo their differences, they're united in that they show how work can be hor­rible. Fortunately, they've found ways to make us laugh -and cringe -at life in the corporate world. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 


page 13 

E~p\oye.e.s 
o.f t'-'e. Mo~t'-' 
Mic&.Ael ScoH Posifio": Re,io""' MAf\A,er As 1.bs"'~d As 1-,e is po~"~po"'s, Mi<:!.,l.el 
is ~t..,e boss At 11 T~.,t ().f.f,ce." 1,., t..,is ow,., ""·,,.,d, 1-,e is ,.,o~ )"'s~ ,.,.,o~t..,e~ Slo\.ot1 b"'t Also <:ol"'ediA"' best f~·~e"d ""'d beloved tA~t..,er .fi'"'~e ~o t..,is e~"~ployees. 1" ~eAI',.fy, 1.11 of &.is el"'ployees <:A,., bArely s~""d 1-,i"'. 
Dwi,a.+ Sca-r"'+~: Posifiof\: AssisfA"f fo f&.e R~iofi>AI MAf\A,er 6et..,i"d ft..,e Coke-boHie-+~-,·,cl( le"ses of ~~.,·,s Slo\per"erd's 'lAsses lies A <:old, <:AICio\IAti"' i,.,.fellec.f be.,f o., corporAte do"''i.,A.fiof\. vs·,f\, !.,is e"il ,e,.,·olo\S, Dw·l,l.,t is perpe~lo\AIIy &.Afcr..;,"' ...ew s<:~.,t"''es Af\d co...sp··~"'c·,es Ai"''ed A~ <:lil"'bi"' ~t..,e corporAte lAdder. 
PA"" 6usly Posi.fiof\l Q.ffic~ Recep.fio'~>is+ Perpetlo\AIIy if\ co".fAc.f wj.ft.., M'oc~..Ael, PAW\ !..AS 'row,., rA.f~.,tr ""'"'b .fo !.,is dAily 
Abs"'rd'rf.ies. W~.,e" s~.,t's "of f',eldi"'' cAlls, PAl"\ WOf'\(S ·,f\ tA...del"' Wit!., 'Ji"'' tO "'"'der"'i"'e Dwi,~o.f. PA"' cleArly &.As tee\'10\,S .fo.-'Ji"''1 blo\f t!.,e'of' rO"'Af\Ce ·,s 0\0t l"'eA".f .fo be dlo\t to &.,er e"'A'e"'e".f .fo Roy. 


:Ji"" HAlpert Posi.fio": ~les rep SIAC1(,er elCtrAordii'\A·..-e, 'Jil"' probAbly COio\\d ~..Ave tOio\f\d A be4.fer job blo\t l.,e r'eliW\Aii'\S WrtL. D\o\1'\der-M·,.f.f'rof\ .for ..-e<~~so"s """lc."ow". He ·,s "of-so-secretly ·," love wift.., PAW\1 A"'d ~ "'""A'es fo AW\c.WArd\y 'ol'\terACt Witt., ~,.. toAO\C?e Roy o,., A fA'1rly re,lo\IAr b11s'os w~.,e,., L.e1s "of I"'Aic.i"'' ll.fe diHic...l.f for Dwi,~o..f. 
RyA" HowArd Posiiio'~>: Q.ffice fe""p Desp'ofe be'1"'' A 11 te~"~p," Ry"" !..AS 
1"\A""''ec! fo sti<:lt Aro"""d tl.,e offo<:e .for ~lo\ite II Wi.,ile. s....llrt Al'\0 tA\tll\tto1 
1.,1\S t1'""red Olo\t ~o.ow .fo lc.eep Mic~o.11el i.,Appy e" ro"'fe fo beco"'.'"'' ~o,·,s ,o-.fo 
'"'Y· 
GRAHAM EBETSCH!The 

-

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, January 30, 2006 
NBA 


James' heroics lead Cavs over Suns, 113-106 
Wade scores 32 in 101-95 Miami victory over Houston; Bucks beat Celtics despite 20 from newly-aquired Szczerbiak 
Associated Press layup by the speedy Barbosa, points, 7.8 rebounds and 7.6 whose shot would have tied it. assists, and· his 44-point, 11­
CLEVELAND --In 6 shining Then, James quickly retrieved rebound, 7 -assist effort has only seconds, LeBron James made a the ball, sped down the floor, been matched by Michael block at one end, a dunk at the eluded Boris Diaw with a head Jordan, Larry Bird and Hakeem other and left a lasting memory fake and delivered a vicious, Olajuwon since 1991-92. of greatness. right-handed dunk that gave the 
"It was unbelievable," said Cavaliers a 97-93 lead. Heat 101, Rockets 95 Phoenix guard Leandro Two plays. Six seconds. Over For a while, Shaquille O'Neal Barbosa. 100 feet. Thousands of dropped couldn't miss a free throw 
James scored 32 of his 44 jaws. against the Houston Rockets on points in the second half, and "I was like, 'Holy Moley!" Cavs Sunday. brought Cleveland back almost coach Mike Brown said. "That When the percentages caught all by himself as the Cavaliers was one of the most athletic up to him, Dwyane Wade took rallied for their fifth straight plays I've ever seen." over. win, 113-106 over the Phoenix The Suns were stunned. Wade sank 12 of 13 foul shots Suns on Sunday. "He made a million highlights in the final quarter and scored 
James added 11 rebounds and in a very short time," said reign­32 points to lead the Miami seven assists for the Cavs, who ing league MVP Steve Nash, Heat to a victory over the trailed by 17 midway through who led Phoenix with 24 points. Rockets. the third quarter when their James scored 16 points in the "I got a rhythm going," said third-year superstar took con­third and added another 16 in Wade, who also had nine trol of the game. the fourth when Cleveland's assists. "The guys just did a 
And, in a stirring 6-second defense finally slowed the Suns, good job of putting the ball in seqoence of the fourth, James holding the NBA's highest-scor­my hands." made one of the best plays of ing team to 19 points on just 6-O'Neal, a 46 percent shooter this NBA season -or any other. of-20 shooting. from the line this season, sank 
First, he hustled back on During the Cavs' winning 11 of his first 12 free throws, 
defense and blocked a floating streak, James is averaging 37.2 including 10 in a row. He also had 14 rebounds for Miami. After his good start, O'Neal missed five of his final six free throws, more on par with his season average. 
Early on, his teammates could see how comfortable Shaq was when he stepped to the line. 

"He wasn't missing and he was looking good," Wade said. "He had that confident look. His the fourth quarter to lead the But Boston wasn't able to foul eyes were real big and when Milwaukee Bucks to a victory the Bucks on the inbounds play, that happens, you know he's over the Boston Celtics. and T.J. Ford got the ball to confident." Redd sat out much of the first Charlie Bell for a fast-break 
O'Neal went 6-for-6 from the quarter with two fouls, and dunk at the buzzer. free-throw line in the third scored only six points in the first Redd finished with 21 to lead quarter, when the Heat finally three quarters. the Bucks, but coach Terry started exploiting the absence of "I needed some divine inter­Stotts said his team's defense 7 -foot-6 Yao Ming, who missed vention," said Redd, whose made the difference. his 21st game since undergoing father is a pastor in Columbus, "It's easy for people to toe surgery on Dec. 19. Yao is Ohio. remember Michael making a expected back this week, but Redd's layup gave Milwaukee three, but the way we competed missed the chance to face the 7-a 76-72 lead with 2:53 remain­defensively kept us in the 1 O'Neal on the first day of the ing in the game, and his 3-game," Stotts said. Chinese New Year. pointer with 1:28 left extended The Bucks held Pierce score­
"That was a positive note," the lead to seven. less into the second quarter ­Miami coach Pat Riley said of "We were doing a great job on he finished with 18 -and both O'Neal's foul shooting. "You him defensively and then he hit teams shot 40.3 percent from could tell he was comfortable." twQ shots that, boy, were quick­the field. 
trigger," Boston forward Wally "Our defense got us over the Bucks 83, Celtics 79 Szczerbiak said. "You have to be hump," Stotts said.-"It was one 
Michael Redd went with the ready for him at all times." of those games. Boston did a only cure he knows for shaky Szczerbiak, who was traded to nice job defensively and both shooting after he made only of the Celtics in a seven-player teams struggled to score. We his first nine shots Sunday. deal with the Minnesota stayed with our defense and 
"Just keep shooting," Redd Timberwolves on Thursday, fought through." said. "That's what I do -keep converted two layups to get the Even on an off night, Rivers shooting." Celtics within three and Paul said, Redd is going to make 
Redd's shots fmally began to Pierce hit a 3-pointer to cut it to open shots. "You knew he would fall and he scored 15 points in 81-79 with 5.2 seconds left. eventually," Rivers said. 
The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Nl classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content wirhour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
908 SB Ave: Roomy 6-7 bdrm home Blue & Gold Homes is offering a For rent: 3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS-HIR­4 blocks to ND. 2 baths, w/d, broad-free pool table to all new tenants. 1-lNG NOW­WANTED band internet incl. 7 bdrms, 24-hr maintenance & open Two story house completely remod-Web site:mmmrentals.com Secure your summer job now! 
leases. Visit BlueGoldrentals.com or eled 2003. Residential camp, located in south ND familyin Granger looking for Avail. 06-07 & 07-08 school year. call574-250-7653. Ready for immediate occupancy or Contact:Gary 574-993-2208 central, Indiana. part-time babysitter. Flexible day-next school year. Operated by the Catholic Youth time schedule. If interested, please 327 Hill St: NEED A HOME 515 St. Joseph, 8 bdrms, $200/per-Off street parking includes motion or grooms@ourwebspot.net Organization since 1946. Serving call Renee at 2n-3496. TODAY? NEED A SECOND son, B&G Homes. 574-250-7653. sensor light for security. campers aged 7 to 16 in various 
CHANCE? Very nice 3 bdrm home. Four individually locked bedrooms, programs. Inclusive of persons with Unix Server specialist needed to Close to ND & Corbys. Broadband 1706 Logan, 6 bdrms, central station monitored security disabilities. Great staff coumrnunity. attach webcam to a server and then internet option. W/D & alarm system $200/person, B&G Homes. system, PERSONAL General Counselor, Specialty, link to a website for a local daycare. avail. Move in today. six blocks from Notre Dame, Adventure and Health positions 233-1605. Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 or 574-250-7653. bus stop in front of house, surround-Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! available. Training provided starting 

FoR RENT WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 Area houses and apartments for rent. Log onto MichianaRentals.com. Caii574-993-RENT (7368)  email JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com Stop overpaying for rent. Visit BlueGoldrentals.com New 3-4 Bedroom Homes, 3 full Baths, 2+ Car Garage, Fireplace, Cathedral Ceilings, 10x20 Deck, Close to Campus. $1700 monthly. Available Aug. 06/07, Call 574-232-4527,269-683-5038.  123 NO Ave. 3-bdrm,1.5 bath. Call 574-229:0149. 2-6 BDRMS. WALK2ND. FURN. 329-0308 Furn 4 bdrm house. 275-300/ea. Walk ND. 574-309-3105.  ed by other student housing, Laundromat next door, basement available for storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc., new furnace and central air. new kitchen including new stove · and refrigerator, large living roorn for TV or entertain­ing, free trash removal. Call 289-4071.  5 Days from $299! Includes Meals, MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica from $499! Campus Reps Neededl PromoCode:31 www.springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386.  May 2006. For application and infor­mation contact: CYO Camp Rancho Framasa (toll-free):(888)988-2839, x25. ore-mail angi@ carnpranchoframasa.org Almost there 39 more days 11 times This close to being 17-1 Hey Ally! Go Ashley, beat DPAC  
- 

Monday, January 30, 2006 
NHL 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team reeord OT points Philadelphia 30-12 8 68 NY Rangers 28-15 7 63 New Jersey 26-20 6 58 NY Islanders 21-25 3 45 Pittsburgh 12-29 10 34 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
lPa m rP«:ord OT points 4 72
Ottawa 34-10 Buffalo 31-15 
3 65 3 51
Toronto 24-22 Montreal 22-20 
6 50 8 50
Boston 12-29 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record OT points Carolina 35-11 4 74 Tampa Bay 27-21 4 58 Atlanta 23-22 6 52 Florida 20-24 8 48 Washington 18-27 5 41 
Western Conference, Central Division t.nam n~«:ord OT points. Detroit 33-13 4 70 
Nashville 31-13 6 68 Columbus 19-30 2 40 Chicago 17-28 6 40 St. Louis 11-30 8 30 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
tPalll rPeonl OT points Calgary 30-16 5 65 Vancouver 29-18 5 63 Colorado 28-19 5 61 Edmonton 27-18 6 60 Minnesota 25-22 4 54 
Western Conference, Pacific Division leam n\eord ···o'f ;~mints
:I 
Dallas 33·15 2 68 Los Angeles 30·20 3 63 Phoenix 26·24 2 54 Anaheim 22·17 10 54 San Jose 23·19 6 52 
Men's College Basketball AP Top 25 
team record points 
1 Connecticut 16·1 1790 2 Duke 17·1 1711 3 Memphis 17·2 1579 4 Texas 16-2 1541 5 Florida 17·1 1530 6 Villanova 13·2 1429 7 Gonzaga 15·3 1395 8 Illinois 17·2 1209 9 West Virginia 14·3 1157 10 Washington 16·2 1140 11 Michigan State 15·4 1101 12 Pittsburgh 15·1 1005 13 Indiana 12·3 1001 14 George Washington 14·1 845 15 NC Slate 15·3 812 16 Ohio State 14·2 738 17 UCLA 15·4 486 18 Maryland 13·4 449 19 Tennessee 12-3 420 20 Boston College 14·4 399 21 Georgetown 12·4 231 22 Louisville 13·5 219 23 Wisconsin 14·4 186 24 Oklahoma 11·4 166 25 Syracuse 15·4 136 
around the dial 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Louisville at Villanova 7 p.m., ESPN Texas Tech at Kansas 9 p.m., ESPN2 
WOMEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Baylor at LSU 7 p.m., ESPN2 
AROUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
TENNIS 
page 15 

-

Associated Press 
MELBOUHNE, Australia -Always in control on the court, Hoger Federer was overcome with emotion while accepting his Australian Open trophy from one of the few people he's still trying to match. 
The top-ranked Federer full'illed overwhelming expectations by beating unlikely finalist Marcos Baghdatis 5-7. 7-5, 6-0, 6-2 in Sunday's limtl to elaim his seventh Grand Slam title and third in sueeession. 
lie tnarfully nmbraced tennis great Hod Laver while receiving his trophy. 
Laver twice swept thn Grand Slams, a feat Federer will try to emulate this season -if he finally can win a Fn-mch Open. 
Federer wept and was stuck for words at the award presentation. 
"I was so happy," he said. "Then I had to go up on stage and speak. This is really too much for me sometimes. It's just a dream come true evp,ry lime I win a Grand Slam. 
"I ean't block it out-I'm also just human." 
Federer maintained his perfect record in seven major l'inals. And, at 24, he's halfway toward Pete Sampras' all-time record of 14 Grand Slam titles. Sampras also was 24 when he won his seventh. 

Federer, who is the first since Sampras to win thrne conseeutive majors, said he was unusually nervous as an overwhelming favorite against the 54th-ranked Cypriot, a former junior world ehampion. 
"The whole faet of being such a huge favorite. And if I lose, a huge upset sinee I don't know when," Federer said. "The whole thing was building up and waiting all day for the night session­that is nerve-rac:king on top of it. It was really tough for me mnntally." 
An 11-gamn winning streak from 5-5 in tlw snc:­ond set eased Federer's nerves and took the mateh away from Baghdatis, who said his problems startt~d when he began to think a huge upset was within reach. 
Baghdatis' raucous fans, who grnw in number as he oustml seeond-snnded Andy Hoddic:k. No. 4 David Nalbandian and two other sendnd playnrs in tho tour­nament, ehantnd bntwnnn points. Dressed as if for a soeenr match, tlwy waved !lags, dwcrnd and whistled to the nnd. 
IN BRIEF 
Piazza inks one-year deal 
with Padres 
SAN DIEGO -All-Star eatcher Mike Piazza agreed Sunday to a $2 million, one-year contract with the San Diego Padres, giving the defending NL West champions a marquee player they think ean still contribute. 
Piazza, 37, had bmm intemsted in signing a free-agent deal with an AL team to become it designated hitter. Instead, he'll stay in the NL and return to the West Coast for the first time since the Los Angelos Dodgers traded him to Florida in 1998. 
The 12-timo All-Star holds tho major league roeord for most can~er home runs by a catcher (374). He has 397 homers overall, and is a earner .311 hitter. 
The deal is expneted to be announe11d on Monday. Piazza gets a $1.25 million salary this year, and the contract includes a mutual option for 2007 at $8 million with a $750,000 buyout. He can earn an additional $750,000 this year in pnrformanee 

bonuses. Detroit sees influx of Steelers fans before Super Bowl 
DETHOIT -Thfl Seahawks were f(Jrtunate to arrive in Detroit one day ahead of the Stenlers. It gave them an extra few hours to get used to snning so mueh black and gold in the Supnr Bowl dty. 
Even though the Lions' home jersey is a shade of blue close to what the Seahawks wear, the color of choicn this week already appears to have a Pittsburgh hue. At the airport, in the shopping malls, in Greektown ­wherever -the only non-Lions NFL apparel seems to sport thp, names Bettis and Hoethlisbp,rger. 
That doesn't bother league MVP Shaun Alexander, whose best friend doesn't root for the Seahawks. lie roots for, you gunssed it. tho Steelers. 
"I le is definitely coming," Alexander said. "Hn'll be there, probably wear­ing a Pittsburgh jersey, but that's OK. 
"lie asked mn for 10 tickets. I said, 'Why do I want to give you 10 tieket'i and you'll b1·ing all Steelers fans'!"' 
Alexm1dnr's buddy won't bn alone. It takes just a bit longer to drive from Pittsburgh to Detroit as it does to lly from Seattle, and at considerably lower priees. Germans sweep races at luge World Cup 
OBEHIIOF, Germany -Jan Eichhorn won his first earner raeo Sunday in nwn's singles to lead a German sweep of all thrno events at the final luge World Cup compntilion before the Olympks. 
Tony Benshoof of tlw Unitml States was fourth in 1 minute, 28.27 4 sec­onds. 
Eiehhorn eomplnted his two heats in 1:28.054, with David MoPllor of Germany soeond at 1 :28.1 :m. Albert Demtdwnko of Hussia was third. 
"The win was also a huge surprise for mo," Eichhorn said. "Now that I've got an Olympie ticket in my poeket, I'm so relieved." 
-
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, January 30, 2006 
NHL 




Flames top Blackhawks, snap two-game skid 
Munro blocked 24. 
Washington, Zubrus 

".They made some pretty good shots," Munro said.
defeat Tampa Bay 2-1 

"They seemed to take advan­tage of their power plays and Associated Press they've obviously got a good power play and they showed 
CHICAGO -The Calgary us what it was like." Flames used a determined Blackhawks coach Trent power-play unit to rally to vic­Yawney wasn't so quick to give tory against the Chicago the Flames credit. Chicago has Blackhawks. won just four of 20 overall and 
Homan Hamrlik had a goal three of 15 at home. and two assists as Calgary "The power-play goals were fought back with four unan­all missed assignments." swered goals to. beat the Yawney said. "We abandoned Blackhawks 5-3 on Sunday and what worked in the first peri­snap a two-game losing streak. od: That was shooting the 
After Hamrlik's · even-puck. We wanted to pass the 
strength score late in the first puck into the net." cut it to 3-2, Steven After taking 14 shots by Heinprccht, Oion Phaneuf and 15:23 of the first period­Chuck Kobasew had the final when Bell's power-play goal
-
three goals -all on the made it 3-1 -the Blackhawks power-play -as the Flames had just 10 the rest of the went 3-for-6 with the advan­game. tage. The teams played the second 
Phaneuf's 5-on-3 goal late in of back-to-hack games at the the second period snapped a 3-United Center after Chicago 3 tie and stood up as the win­defeated Calgary 2-0 on ner. Calgary's Darren McCarty Thursday. It marked the first seored in the first. time since 1959 that the 
"The key was getting our feet Blackhawks played consecu­moving and drawing penal­tive games at home against the ties," said Kobasew, who same opponent. scored on a mid-air deflection. On Thursday, Munro and "We knew that special teams Kiprusoff squared off in a goal­would be the difference." tending duel. It was scoreless 
"They [Chicago's penalty until Chicago's Martin Lapointe killers] are very, very aggres­scored a power-play goal with sive," Kobasew added. "Five­6:11 left in the third period. on-four, four-on-three, they Sunday's contest, however, come at you. We almost had to started with a scoring flurry, play it like we were five-on­and the Blackhawks led 3-2 Hamrlik cut it to 3-2 with frustrating offensive afternoon winning two. five." after the first period. 1:10 left in the period. for the Capitals, who had only "We didn't play last year, but 
Flames leading scorer McCarty jammed in a shot Power-play goals by four first-period shots, gave they're still the Stanley Cup Jarome lginla was held off the from the side of the net to Heinprecht and Phaneuf iB the the Lightning seven power ehampions," Washington scoresheet for the third open the scoring just 39 sec­second period put Calgary plays and were outshot 35-24. defenseman Brendan Witt straight game, but was on the onds in. ahead 4-3. "We played not good for two said. "It's a good test every ice for three Calgary goals. Vrbata tied it 1-all at 1:09, Heinprecht tied it at 3 from periods," Ovechkin said. "The time we play them." 
"I think our power play out­and Bourque gave Chicago a 2-the slot 6:56 into the period. third period, I think we played Tampa Bay's Evegny competed their penalty 1 lead just 9 seconds later. Following a faceoff, he turned pretty well." Artyukhin almost forced over­killing," Iginla said. "They out­With Kiprusoff down, Vrbata and fired a rising shot past Jeff Halpern also scored for time. With 0.5 seconds left, his competed us in the first period. fired in a shot from a sharp Munro's glove. the Capitals, who snapped a shot glanced off the right post Going into the second, I think angle on left wing to tie it. Phaneuf's 5-on-3 power-play three-game losing streak. and through the crease behind everybody found another Bourque connected from the goal with 4:11 left in the sec­Vincent Lacavalier had the goalie Olie Kolzig. level." front of the net, after taking a ond gave the Flames a 4-3 lone goal for the Lightning, Eleven seeonds after Tampa 
Chicago's Hadim Vrbata had pass from Curtis Brown to lead. who had gone 5-0-1 in their Bay's fifth power play expired, a goal and an assist. Mark Bell complete a two-on-one. previous six games. Lacavalier gave the Lightning and Rene Bourque also scored Bell made it 3-1 with 4:37 Washington 2, Tampa Bay 1 "We had a chance to win," a 1-0 lead. Lacavalier swept for the Blackhawks. left in the first with a power­WASHINGTON-Alexander Lightning coach John Vaclav Prospal's centering pass 
Calgary's Miikka Kiprusoff play goal. He converted a Ovechkin made the Tampa Bay Tortorella said. "We doubled past Kolzig at 9:24 of the sec­stopped 21 shots. Blackhawks rebound of Brent Seabrook's Lightning pay dearly for a them in scoring chances and ond for his 21st goal. rookie counterpart Adam shot from the point. defensive decision to double­we don't score. We lose a cou­Halpern tied it with 4:40 left 
team him. ple of battles in the neutral in the period, snapping the Oainius Zubrus scored with zone at the end there. They Lightning's shutout streak of 
2:20 left in regulation and the were bad coverages and it was 158 minutes, 42 seconds Washington Capitals edged the in the net, game over." spread over three games. Tampa Bay Lightning Sunday The latest loss to the Capitals Halpern pursued his own for their third home win in was Tampa Bay's final visit to rebound after Tampa Bay's four games against the defend­Washington this season. The John Grahame failed to glove ing Stanley Cup champions. previous three games went ·to the puck, poking it in after it 
Ovechkin started the decisive a shootout, with the Capitals squirted behind the goalie. 


Washington's Dainlus Zubrus, left, celebrates with teammate Alexander Ovechkin, center, after scoring the go-ahead goal Sunday. 
push by skating down the left boards and drawing two defenders to him. Ovechkin slipped a rink-wide pass through traffic to Chris Clark on the right wing, and Clark tapped the puek to Zubrus, who scored after splitting two defenders in the slot. 
The pass was a daring but beautiful assist, showing that the rookie sensations keenly aware of where his teammates are and what the defense is trying to do to slow him down. 
Doubling down on Ovechkin created extra ice that made possible an otherwise risky long pass. 
"If two guys are going to go to [Ovechkin], right away as soon as he's into the zone, it means there's always going to be someone open.... After 40 games, people are starting to realize that this is the guy they 
AP have to go to," Clark said. Ovechkin said the game-win­ner helped to balance out a 

ATHLETIC TRAINING & SPORTS MEDICINE 
There will be a meeting for any lbtre Dame freshman student interested in the student athletic training prc:grarn. the meeting will be held on Monday, September 12th, at 4:15 p .rn. in the Joyce center athletic Training Rccm. We are still accepting any freshm:m students interested in the student athletic training prc:grarn. Please con ­
tact Chantal Porter at 631-7100. 
-

Monday, January 30, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Kessler hits free throws, vaults Belles to win 
----================================================================================= 
By JAY FITZPArRICK 
Sports Writer 
With six s1wonds ldt in the gamn and tlw Bnllns down one to visiting Tt·i-State Saturday, Saint Mary's guard Allison Knsslnr· m<Hin two frnn throws to l:tHnt•nt tlw win. 
l.atl~ in tltn SIH'ond half. thn ThundPr had madf' an itHTnd­ibln nlltwbaek, going from down as many as I:~ in Lim sne­ond halt' to up four points with 2:i sn1:onds to go in tlw ganw. 
Thn playnr most rPsponsi­bln for llw conwbal'k was Tri-StatP snnior 
Kayla Clwnsman. who scon~d stwnn straight Thunder points late in l.lw sn1~otHl half. 
llownvnr. with 12 seeonds in Urn ganw and thn ball in Tri­Statn's hands for an inbounds pass, Chnnsman passnd tlw ball out of bounds on the sidnlinn. giving thn Bnllns thn ball with plenty of Lime lnl't to win it. 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles fall to Albion, Calvin in final meet 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA and 
BECK! DORNER 
Spons Wri tcrs 
The Belles' n~gular sew;on came to a dose Saturday a.'> Saint Mary's strugglml in a dual meet against Calvin College and Albion College at Calvin in Grand Hapids, Mi. Senior captain Knlly Nelis paced the Bnllns, placing second in the :i()(J-fren. 
Aftnr a diiTieult season, the Belles arn still looking (()fward to the MIAA Swimming and Diving Championships in Grand Hapids from Fnh. 9-12. And dnspitn thn laek of sueenss, lirst-year coach I.ynn Kadunarik is proud of the team. 
"This team ha.'> gottnn up at 4:30 
a.m. most of thn year to eompnto and train." shn said. "It h<L'> been an amazing journey lilr me to bn giv1m the opportunity to maeh and know our women at a dil'fnmnt 
hwd." 
SALON RoUGE 
"We've all got more conJidence and are playing smarter basketball thanks to our experience, and it's helped us win games. 
Bridget Boyce Belles captain 
in most of llw sncond half, allowing the Thunder to come back and nvnntually pull ahead, thn Bnlles regained their com­posure as thn game was wind­ing down. 
"Mental toughness was a very big part of the win," said senior captain Bridget Boyce, who addnd 10 points in the win. 
Thn two biggest contributors in the win wnre forward Erin Nnwsom and Kessler, who has played supnrbly in thn last two wonks. 
Newsom was a hugn force on thn inside, scoring 10 points and grabbing nine boards. Knssler led Saint Mary's in scoring with 18 points. includ-
The MIM Championships are second in prestige only to the NCAA Championships, to which the winners may advance with outstanding performances. Kachmarik stressed first focusing on the upcoming championships -much more than just another ment to the Belles. 
"This meet is what our team has trainnd lbr sineo narly September," she said. "Our women came ba1~k from the holiday in latn Decnmbnr and eontinuod with hard training twice at day using the Holf's Aquatic Facility at Notre Dame." 
Hegardless of final performanc­es, the team will cherish its last meet together. 
The Belles look to send ofl' their seniors -Katie Dingeman, Kelly Nelis and Stephanie llile -in styln. 
Contact Becki Dorner and Deirdre Krasula at rdorner 1 @nd.edu and dkrasula@nd.cdu 
ing the crucial game-winning free throws at the nnd of the ganw. 
This game is tlw perfect nxampln of thn mPntal tough­ness that coach Steve Bender stress as one of thn team's pri­mary strengths. 
Although the Belles may havn been too relaxnd "We couldn't have won without it. There was a way to win and we found it." 


By playing sold defense and getting tho shots it needed, Saint Mary's showed the kind of mental strength nonded to win elosn games, a skill that will benefit the Belles greatly with big games against Calvin and Olivet next week and the MIA;\ tournanwnt lnss than a month away. 
The Belles havn now won four of their last live games, a strntch that has also kept the Belles in the top half of the MIAA standings for tho first time in fivn years. as well as tlwir first .500 season in a long time. 
The Belles have live regular snason games remaining, and 

-
currrntly are 9-11 overall; hownver, they are 7-4 in the MIAA and fourth place in the conference. 
"We have so many freshman and new players who have matured," Boyce said. "We've got more confidence and are playing smarter basketball thanks to our experience, and it's hnlped us win games." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at 
jfitzpaS@nd.cdu 
PGA 




Tiger starts year with bang 
After taking a break, Woods returns to win the Buick Invitational 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -A new deeade for Tiger Woods brought back some familiar images. 
Stalking the 18th green at Torrey Pines, he sized up the 8 feet of grass between his ball and the cup, a putt he simply had to make to get into a play­ofT Sunday. Then came that pounding of the fist when it dropped for birdie, matching the longest putt he made all weekend. 
And when the Buick Invitational ended somberly, there was Woods holding another trophy. 
Heturning from the longest self-imposed break or his career, the 30-year-old Woods began his 1Oth full season on the PGA Tour with duteh shots down the stretch and two pars in a playoll' to outlast two-time Masters champion Jose Maria Olazabal and Australian rookie Nathan Green. 
Woods' only n~gret was how it nnded. Olazabal playnd a splendid 


bunker shot on the par-3 16th to 4 feet, but missed the par putt on the second playoll' hole. Woods closed his eyes and briefly bowed his head, bring­ing back another familiar scene. 
llis last PGA Tour win was the American Express Championship !'our months ago at !larding Park, where John Daly missed a 3-foot. par putt on the second extra hole. 
"You don't ever take pleasun~ out seeing your friends do that," Woods said. "I would have felt !ired up if I made the putt in the playo!l' for birdie on 18 and ended it right there, but not when a friend of mine miss­es a short one." 
Still, Woods could not have asked for a better start to a new season. 
Improving his playoll' record to 12-1 worldwide, Woods bncame the lirst four-time win­ner of the Buick Invitational and won in his season debut for the fourth time in 10 y1~ars. 
"You either win or lose right here and now," he said of his birdie for an even-par 72. "Either you get it done or you don't. Over my career. I've donn a prntty good job of it." 
So ended a dynamic after­noon along the blurt's or the Pacilk Ocean. where a dozen playors had a share of the lead at onn point and eight players shared the lead with six holes to play. 
Olazabal was the first to rnach 10-undnr 27X with a two-putt birdie on the 1Rth for a 69. Green, who made two crucial par saves in only his seeond PGA Tour event, holnd a n1~rvy ?-footer for birdie for a 72. 
Woods nevnr expected a chance, not after three-putting three times and getting fooled by the speed of tho groens on a South Course where he has played since he was 12. 
But in 10 years and 47 carenr victories, he doesn't miss many putts with so much on thn line. 
"I shouldn't have even bnen in the playoff," Woods said, surprised that none of the otlwr 11 players atop the leaderboard ran orr with a string of birdies. "Of all the things that happened today, I kept saying, 'At least you havn a chance.' I llippnd it around, turnnd it into a positive situa­tion. It folt good coming oil' the putter and found its way to the bottom." 
Woods has won lilltr times on four courses -Torrey Pines, Augusta National, Firestone and Bay I!ill. 
Green did all he could to pull of an improbable victory. 
The 30-year-old Aussie, who once worked in his parents' crematm·ium, built a two-shot lead by holing a 77 -yard wedge on the par-5 I 3th for eagle. Then, he held on f'or dnar life by making t.wo clutch par savns, and the birdin on tlw 18th holn. But hn didn't last. long. 
Tlw only playnr to hit thn fairway on No. 1 X in tlw play­ofT, his :~-wood wnnt into tlw grandstand. Af'ter taking a frnP drop. his pitch didn't rnaeh t.lw grenn and lw c.hunkPd tlw nnxt. one, moving it only indtns and making bogey. 
"Thew's nothing to hn disap­pointnd about," CnHm said. ''I've bonn an ovnradtinvnr for tim wnnk." 
That s1~nt Woods and Olazabal to tlw Ihth, and tlw 39-y,mr-old Spaniard appoan~d to eseapn trouble~ as he often does. 
-
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, January 30, 2006 
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish down Louisville, Oakland at Invitational 
Oakland 258-109 and fellow cut time in the 200 Individual 2 on the season, and the Irish plished as the swimmers whoBy GREG ARBOGAST Big East competitor Louisville, Medley with a time of 2:03.63. head into the postseason with had not yet qualified all 
Sports Wri£er 

218-148. Well ahead after Friday seven consecutive victories. achieved the necessary times The Irish jumped out to a night, Notre Dame locked up In addition to the final this weekend. 
In its last meet before the quick start on Friday night as both meets Saturday morning results, however, there were This means the Irish will Big East Championships, the they won all five swimming as it won live of eight events. some other notable moments take a full team to the Big women's swimming and diving competitions and took second With the result already for the Irish this weekend. East Championships in two team finished otT the season in and third place in the lone div­determined, head coach Carrie Senior Courtney Choura, weeks, and the squad is very style, defeating both Louisville ing event.· Nixon made a classy move by swimming in her final race at excited about the position it's and Oakland in the Shamrock The better sign from Friday using Saturday night _to allow Notre Dame, finished in sec­in. Invitational. night, though, was the fact the some of her swimmers to ond place for the 200 breast "We're ready to go and win 
With the Shamrock team is still showing signs of either scratch or swim in exhi­stroke with a time of 2:21.48. the Big East," Nixon said. Invitational following a new improvement. bition races, which means Choura, along with senior "The higher goal, and tho one format this season, all three With a time of 4:52.36 in the they didn't log any points for manager Shannon Trevino, that has been the focus all teams competed against each 500 freestyle, freshman Casey their efforts. were honored before the meet. year, is still scoring as many other, but tho scoring took Wagner not only won the "It was a courtesy thing," Furthermore, one of the points as we can in the NCAAs place as if multiple dual meets event, but also logged her first Nixon said. We didn't want to goals coming into the meet for and that is what we are going were occurring. NCAA 'B' cut time of the sea­run up the score. It -was the the team was to have every to continue working towards." 
Notre Dame left no doubt son. Not wanting to be out­gentleman's thing to do." swimmer qualify for the Big who the best team was this done, teammate Jessica The two wins push Notre East Championships. Contact Greg Arbogast at weekend as it defeated Stephens posted an NCAA 'B' Dame's dual meet record to 5-That mission was aceom-garbogas@nd.edu 
-
N D WOMEN's TENNIS 

Tean1 don1inates, shuts out both Ohio State and Xavier 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Wri£er 
The No. 22 Irish (2-0) had lit­tle trouble securing victories in their doubleheader against Ohio State (2-1) and Xavier (1-1) Saturday. 
Notre Dame shut out both opponents with 7-0 victories and took all 30 sets against its regional foes. 
"We didn't lose many games and were really eflicient on the court," freshman Kelcy Tefft said. "We didn't make it as long of a day." 
Against the Buckeyes in dou­bles, the No. 1 doubles team of junior twins Christian and Catrina Thompson were lirst ofT the court with an 8-1 victory over Ohio State's Caitlin O'Keefe and Julie Blackmore. 
"The Thompsons are extremely humble, and their work ethic sets the pace and tone for the rest of us," fresh­man Katie Potts said. 
The duo was followed off the court by the No. 35-ranked pair of sophomore Brook Buck and Tefft with an 8-2 win over Angela Diastina and Sonia Huzimovsky. 

The final pairing of No. 45 seniors Kiki Stastny and captain Lauren Connelly defeated Ohio State's Ciara Finucane and Kristin Messmer 8-5. 
"Our doubles team as a whole are amongst the top in the country," Potts said. "[Coach] Jay [Louderback! said it should be a rare occasion if we lose a doubles point." 
Tefft agreed. 
"Our team has the best dou­bles in the nation with all three teams ranked," she said. 
The motivation and strength of the doubles matches appeared to carry over into sin­gles, and the Irish took all six matches over Ohio State. 
Playing at No. 1 for the Irish, No. 24 Catrina Thompson defeated O'Keefe 6-2, 6-3, fol­lowed by her sister No. 44 Christian Thompson in a 6-2, 6­1 win over DiPastina at No. 2. Nos. 3 and 5, Buck and Stastny, continued the trend by topping Huzimovsky 6-2, 6-1 and Messmer 6-2, 6-3, respectively. 
In their dual-match debuts in singles, No. 4 Tefft and No. 6 Potts claimed victories over Blackmore and Finucane, respectively. 
"Everyone came out and played so well, and [the other teamsJ didn't give us much of a problem," Tefft said. 
In their second match against Xavier, the Irish only lost 11 games in singles against the Musketeers -the fewest by the Irish since Jan. 30, 1999 against Kansas State. 
Key matches came from Stastny -the only Irish player to compete in singles and dou­bles in both matches, who defeated Xavier's Kara Courtney 6-2, 6-2 at No. 3, ­Connelly -her 6-0, 6-0 deci­sion over Annie Diedalis secured the victory for the Irish -and senior Kelly Nelson. Nelson defeated Sarah Pots 6-3, 6-3 in her dual match debut in singles. 
The Irish return to the court to face No. 24 Wake Forest on Feb. 11, followed by No. 11 UNC on Feb. 12. 
"We are hoping to get a win against [UNCI and that will really help our confidence [as the season progresses]." Tefft 


Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Stanford tops Washington in OT 
Associated Press 
STANFOHD, Calif. -Chris Hernandez told himself to stay calm, refusing to think about the consequences if even one of his free throws were to miss its intended tar­get. 
One, two, three -just like in practice. 
Hernandez sank three free throws with two-tenths of a second left in regulation to send the game into overtime and hit four morn in the extra period. lifting Stanford to a thrilling 76-67 victory over No. 10 Washington on Sunday night. 
"When you're trying to shoot, the best thing to do is not think about what you have to do," Hernandez said. "I've 

-
had that situation in high school a few times. I've been pretty successful." 
The Cardinal (10-7, 6-3 Pac­
10) won their third straight to extend their home winning streak to eight games. It was their 13th straight win over the Huskies at Maples Pavilion, where students charged the court after the final buzzer sounded. 
"I don't think it crossed my mind we were going to lose that game," said Huskies leading scorer Brandon Roy, who finished with 25 points. ''I'm still kicking myself. For the first time in basketball, I fee I sorry for myself." 
Hernandez finished with 15 points and four assists after sitting the final 12:16 of the first half in foul trouble, and Matt Haryasz posted his fifth straight 20-point game with 24 points and 10 rebounds. 
He also made a gutsy pass to Hernandez in one crazy final minute of regulation. 
Hoy spun through the lane for the go-ahead basket with 
1:01 left in regulation, then came up with a big defensive play when he intercepted a bad pass by Mitch Johnson with 3 seconds left. Hoy con­verted two free throws with 
2.1 seconds remaining, but Stanford had a final chance. 
''I'm always confident as long as there's time on the clock," Stanford coach Trent Johnson said. "It always helps having a guy who can step up to the free throw line in that situation and keep his compo­sure." 




Monday, January 30, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
We believe in sandy feet, beach bonfires and lifelong memories. We believe in vacations.* 
Enter our vacation sweepstakes at pwc.com/freevacation 
Your life. You can bring it with you. 
-

1. No pun::ha:!lo n<OOOssary 2. Sweepstakms t119gin~> '1/4/06. 3. Opmn to US rosidmnts. ·ts & <oldcw, who aro studet1ts >1t a pmrticlpmtin9 coll09e or univ<9rsity. 4 Visit pwc.com/fr<9<9vaco.t•on for dmtails >1nd ccu11plete offic•nl rul<9:!l @ 2006 PriC~tWatertiOUSI!Coopers LLP. Ali rights reserved. ''Pncewaterhout>eCoopem" refli'rs to Pricewaterho .. seCooper.> LLP (a De!laww<) limited liability PUitrtership) or; ill\ the context requu~s. other rnernber flrrns or Prlctlwnterhous.lCoopors lntornatlonllll..imltmd, eacl1 ol which Is a soparmtm nnr.l lndep<9ndmnt r.ntity. ·crmnoctedthinkinf.1IS n trademnrk of Pricawm~rhouseoCoopers U..P (US). W<i! arr,, proud to bo an Affim1atlv<il Action an Equal Opporturuly Ernplo~r. · · 
-
page 20 Monday, January 30, 2006
The Observer + SPORTS 

MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish lose to Virginia, top Willian1 and Mary 

-
By KATE GALES Associate Spons Editor 
It was an up-and-down weekend for the Lrish, who dropped a heartbreaking 4-3 match to No. 1 Virginia on Friday but rebounded for a 7-0 win over William and Mary Sunday. ­
"We were right there to beat Virginia," senior Eric Langenkamp said. "We were up 3-2 with our two most clutch players [Stephen Bass and Sheeva Parbhu I still on the courts ... we just came up a litile short." 
The Irish have a big week­end coming up, with matches against North Carolina and Duke preceding a Tuesday match against Illinois. 
"I don't want to put too much importance on any one match," coach Bobby Bayliss said. "The season is a marathon, not a sprint ... but we need to be at our best." 
Virginia 4, Notre Dame 3 
The Irish and Cavaliers went down to the wire in a hotly­contested match at the Country Club of Virginia. The Irish struggled with a new lineup in doubles, as Ryan Keckley and Barry King fell No. 35 Somdev Devvarman and Trent Huey in the No. 1 doubles match. Although Bass and Langenkamp had won 8-3 at No. 3 doubles, Brett Helgeson and Sheeva Parbhu lost the No. 2 match 8-5 to give the doubles point to the Cavaliers. 
"Our level was as high as I've seen it from this team in a number of years," -Bayliss said. 
In singles, Keckley won 6-2, 6-4 at No. 5, but captain Patrick Buchanan fell 6-3, 6-1 at No. 6. The Irish reeled off two more victories to go up 3­2 with the top two singles matches on the court. At No. 4, Brett Helgeson topped Huey, who holds the No. 6 national ranking in singles play, with a 6-7,6-1,6-1 score. 
"Brett Helgeson looked as strong as we've seen any of our players play," Bayliss said. 
At third singles, King won 6­3, 6-7, 6-1 over Rylan Hizza. 
"Rizza is a tough out," asso­ciate head coach Todd Doebler said. "IThe match] showed how well Barry's improved." 
However, the Irish couldn't maintain the lead, as Parbhu fell 6-2, 3-6, 6-4 in the third set to tie the match at 3-3. Devvarman's win over Bass was the decisive point for Virginia. 
"[Notre Dame] didn't lose ­Virginia took it from them," Bayliss said. "We didn't have enough weapons to hurt them at the end." 
Notre Dame 7 William and Mary 0 
The Irish rebounded against a difficult Tribe team to post a dominant 7-0 victory to close out the weekend. 
''I'm pleased with the results today," Bayliss said. 
The Irish swept the doubles point, starting with an 8-3 win from Bass and Langenkamp at­third doubles. Keckley and King clinched the point with an 8-1 win ·at No. 1, and Helgeson and Parbhu complet­ed the sweep at No. 2 with an 8-6 victory. 
The Tribe was known to have strong doubles, and the dominant showing there was a coup for the Irish. 
In singles, Keckley was first off the courts with a 6-1, 6-3 win at No. 5. Parbhu followed with a 6-2, 6-0 win at No. 2. King clinched the match at third singles with a 6-4, 6-2 victory. 
"I think Stephen Bass showed a lot of poise after los­ing his second set," Bayliss said. "Ryan was all over [his opponent Dominic] Pagon ­he beat the ball to the net, it looked like sometimes." 
Helgeson posted another win at No. 4 with a 7-5, 6-2 win, and Bass won 6-4, 3-6, 6-3 at No.1. 
"Brett had such a big win the other night ... [but] he pulled himself together pretty well," Bayliss said. 
Langenkamp had a difficult match at No. 6 but pulled out a 4-6, 6-3, 6-4 win at the hard-fought position. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
MEN'S SWIMMING 





Team sweeps Invitational 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
In the last meet at Rolfs Aquatic Center this year, the Irish took care of business against four quality opponents, including No. 22 Penn State. The meet was scored as four separate dual meet competi­tions and Notre Dame swept. the other schools. 
The 4-0 performance leaves the team 10-2 overall for the second straight year. Penn State came the closest to upset-. ting the Irish (197-173), but Missouri, Louisville and Oakland all held their own in the water. 
"It was a very competitive weekend for us; the meet was not won until the next-to-last event," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. 
The 100-yard butterfly was the event that sealed it for Notre Dame -the Irish grabbed two of the top five spots to pull aw&y for good. 

Junior Ted Brown came in third and Patrick Heffernan was right behind in fourth in his last race at Rolfs. 
"It was a really significant and meaningful meet for the seniors who wanted to go out in a good way," Heffernan said. "We were glad to be able to rise to the level of our competi­tion and come out on top." 
This group of seniors, 10 in total, were the first swimmers to receive full scholarship sup­port from the university. 
As a group, they hav-e faced ofT against 61 difl'erent colleges and universities in three differ­ent countries. They leave behind them a long list of bro­ken records and program firsts, including a national rank and an invite to the Dallas Morning News Classic. 
"If you just look at what this senior class has done, you can see they were a big part of our improvement and they always will be," Welsh said. 
One of the biggest aecolades the Irish have achieved in the past four years is winning last year's Big East Championship -a feat they will try to dupli­cate in two weeks. 
With its regular season com­pleted, Notre Dame now goes into what is called a resting period. The team will spend the next couple of weeks men­tally preparing to defend its title. This means that instead of intense fitness training, prac­tices will be much more focused on attention to detail. 
Expectations remain high for the conclusion of the season, and after beating a strong Penn State squad, the Irish feel they have the ability to put up a solid performance after·the two-week resting period comes to a close. 
"This weekend's. hard test was good for us, we know we have the talent, we just have to swim as well as we can and let the rest take care of itself," Welsh said. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
FENCING 

Squad svveeps Notre Dan1e Duals 
· By DAN TAPETILLO Sports Writer 
The No. 1 Irish women swept 
the field this weekend at the 
Notre Dame Duals as they fin­
ished 8-0 in the tournament and 
improved to 18-1 on the season. 
The most impressive showings 
for Notre Dame were its 19-8 
win over Duke and 18-9 victories 
over No. 7 Northwestern and 
Wayne State. 
Despite their No. 1 ranking, 
the dominance the Irish dis­
played over the field came as a 
slight surprise to coach Janusz 
Bednarski. 
"We have a new team and our 
ranking [is based off the] impres­
sion of the past and the champi­
onship that we won last year-

not changes in the roster," r-------------------------....,
Bednarski said. "We have big changes because we lost super­stars [whol were national cham­pions. So the new team has a much harder task." 
Epeeist Amy Orlando and sabreist Ashley Serrette helped the Irish to power their way past competition. 
Orlando topped two-time NCAA epee champion Anna Garina of Wayne State in a 5-4 overtime bout and Serrette recorded wins over All-American lbtihaj Muhammad of Duke 5-4 and Annie Massart 5-3. 
"[Serrette] was doing a beauti­ful job," Bednarski said. "She needs a little more experience, but she was bouting above expectations." 
However, despite the success Serrette found against Duke, she felt several of the calls were questionable during the competi­tion. 
"The director didn't call tim­ing, attack preps and just based it all off the lights," Serrette said, regarding the way the bout was scored. "And you can't do that. So [our teaml had to adjust." 
The women's foilists also need­ed to readjust their approach against the competition. 

"A couple of teams were a lit­tle rocky like Lawrence and Duke," foilist Adi Nott said. "But we held together pretty well." 
Nott fmished the weekend with double-digit wins in addition to foilist Emilie Prot's impressive showing throughout the week­end. 
Bednarski said the No. 2 men's team also performed higher than previously expected by defeating The men defeated No. 10 Duke 22-5 and Wayne State 22-5. 
The squad dropped less than 30 bouts over the weekend in improving its record to 18-1. 
"They show ambition, skill, and cooperation," he said. "They show a lot of potential. [Especially] the men's epee team, [which was] winning bouts against opponents who [were] rnally ranked higher and lhadl a very good style:'' 
The standouts in the men's competition came from epeeists Greg Howard (9-0) and fresh­man Karol Kostka (1 0-1 ). Both finished with wins over defend­ing NCAA runner-up Marek Petraszek. 
"Greg Howard was one of the heroes on the men's side," Bednarski said. 
Three other epeeists finished with double-digit wins -juniors Patrick Gettings (15-1 ), Jesse Laeuchli (14-1) and Aaron Adjemian (10-1). 
"!We arel a strong team with ability to achieve strong results," Bednarski said. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

5 BEDROOM HOUSE AVAILABLE NOW 
Great Neighborhood, Prime Location, Close to Campus 105 Marquette Ave. South Bend, IN Just offAngela and US 31 Due to extreme circumstances it is avail­able for immediate possession. This house has been leased to Notre Dame Students for over 30 years by the same owner, who is a local resident. Don't miss this rare opportunity Please call our office at 574-232-6964 (still available for next year!) 
-
Monday, January 30, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

In the process, she set a new Notre Dame record in

Mile 
the pole vault, and became only the second woman incontinued from page 24 
school history to clear the that things turned out for four-meter mark. Kurt." In the men's weight throw, 
WhiiP BPnninger's perform­all three members of the ancn n~rtainly was the high­Irish squad posted season­light of tho event, two mem­host throws. Junior Garet bers of th1~ womnn's squad Koxlien led the way with a also turned in throw of 17 rPcord-sPtting meters; good dforts. FrPshman enough for Alyissa Ilasan snt "Kurt was especially second place. a new Notre motivated tonight. " Kyle Annen DamP rncord in was right the pnntathlon, behind with a
Joe Plane
coming up a nwre throw of 16.37 45 points short of Irish head coach meters, while a provisional junior Kevin NCAA qualifying Moffitt had a scorn. toss of 15.20 
Follow frnshman Mary meters, qualifying him for Saxnr continued to impress the Big East Championship. i n t h ~~ p o I e vau It. She The women sprinters also improv1~d upon her NCAA continued to impress, with provisional mark that she set Maryann Erigha and Okechi at thn Blue-Gold Invitational Ogbuokiri once again leading by dearing a height of 13 the charge. font., :~.5 inches. Erigha captured the crown 
in the 60 meters with a mark of 7.54 seconds, which was just off of her season best time. Ogbuokiri won the 500 meters with a time of 1:14.38, which qualified her for the Big East Championship in her second event. 
After Friday's meet, the Irish have now qualified 50 
athletes  in  27  different  
events  for  the  Big  East  
Championships,  with  two  

more meets to go until the championships. 
Benninger's time in the mile also qualified him for the NCAA Championship, which places him in the com­pany of Saxer (pole vault) and Ogbuokiri (400 meters). 
The Irish return to action next weekend with the Meyo Invitational. 
The two-day event kicks off at 5 p.m. on Friday and 10 
a.m. on Saturday. 
Contact Jordan Beltz at jbeltz@nd.edu 


Buckeyes 
continued from page 24 
On the other side of the ice, Ohio State goalie Dave Caruso matched Brown savn for save, holding the Irish to just one goal, which came on a power play Saturday. 
"Ohio State's one of the top defensive teams in the country," Jackson said. "Part of that's Caruso, of course, but we out­chaneed them Friday night and couldn't score." 
Ohio State took Friday's matchup, shutting out the Irish and earning its seventh straight win in the series, a streak that dated back to Nov. 2003. Caruso made 28 saves, allowing few rebounds and stilling a Notre Dame attack that had scored at least two goals in each of its last seven games. 
"We were going to the net well, but Caruso didn't give up any rebounds," Jackson said. "Even if you go to the net well, if there arc no rebounds it doesn't matter." 
Buckeye right wing Mathieu Beaudoin scored the game's only goal at 14:28 of the second period when he blasted a shot past Brown from the right face­ofT circle. 
Saturday night. it was Notn~ Damn's turn to post a shutout victory. Senior left wing Mike Walsh scored tlw third gamn­winner of his earner on the power play :~:4S into the sncond period. 
The Bucknyns had a chane1~ to tin as BIHLUdoin intercnptnd a pass and skated unehncked towards Brown. The Ir·ish goalin madn the save, howevnr, ensur­ing a Notrn Damn victory. 
The games wern both relative­ly pnnalty-frnn, with only sewn pownr plays Friday and six Saturday bntwnen both teams. Jackson said the lack of whistles contributed to a morn open, exdting ganw. 
"We had a vntnran rnfnrnn in 

... 
Steve PiotrowHki," Jackson said. "lie knows what's a p1malty and what's obstruction and what's not." 
Thn wnnknnd movnd Notre Damn's record to 9-14-3, 7-10-3 and 1Oth in thn CCI lA. Although the Irish nndnd t.l111ir snven­gamn losing strnak against thn -Buckeyns, Ohio State still leads the all-timn serins 25-22-6. 
Notre Dame will nnxt bn in action Friday against Michigan State at the Joycn Center at 7:35 p.m. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


Bulls 
continued from page 24 
two 3-pointers and score sev1HJ narly points and give thn Bulls a 12-3 load just :{: 12 into tho gamo. 
"Every threo we gave up was bncausn somnbody made a mistakn, so that's eight mistakes," said McGraw. referring to South Florida's gamo total from throo-point rangn. 
Notrn I>amn nvnntually cut tlw lead b;u~k to 20-1 S with 
S:51 to go in the first half, hut then suffnrnd through orw of tlw season's Iongnst nnld goal-loss strnaks. going morn than 1:{ minutes with­out a point rrom tho rloor. 
"Wo just don't havo tho offonsivn power that we rwed." McCraw said. "I think we have people who are capable of it. but they're just not doing it." 
In part hocause of the 
lengthy cold streak, Notre Dame fell behind by as much as 15 and went into halftime trailing, 34-21. 
"We dig ourselves a big hole in every game," she said. "I don't think you can put yourself in that kind of a hole and then work that hard to conw baek." 
In the second half, Notre Dame was able to finally end the field-goal drought with a jumper from Megan Duffy 
4:04 into the half. 
The senior point guard, who finished with a game­high 25 points, helped engi­neer yet another major comeback as the Irish erased a 15-point dorieit and took a 47-46 lead with 6:23 left to play. 
"I think we settled down a little bit in the offense, and I tried to be a little morn aggrossivn in tho second half than 1 was in the first half," Duffy said. 
McGraw, howevor, was a bit more frustrated with the 
oITo nse. 
need those them hit a experienced "We just frickin' beat three. It didn't players to help ourselves. It's matter if that her." was the first
frustrating. " 

McGraw was three of her especially criti­career or what," cal of ~er Muffet McGraw McGraw said. 
inside players, Irish head coach Notre Dame who havn been started the struggling more extra period than expected this season. well, with l'ield goals by "We thought that [senior freshman forward Lindsay forward! Courtney [Lavere[ Schrader, who finished with would be a scorer for us, and 10 points, and sophomore it's just been really disap­forward Charel Allen giving pointing the way our posts the Irish early leads at (J0-58 have been playing," McGraw and 62-60, rcspeetively. But said. "We just cannot seore." South Florida forward After a pair of Duffy frne Jessica Dickson, who rin­throws gave the Irish a 58-55 ished with 17 points, proved load with 24 seconds left to why she is an All-American play, the team looked poised candidate and the nation's to pull off yet another eome­leading scorer. She seored from-behind victory. three of the Bulls' seven 
overtimn points in leading thnm to the victory. 
"I was not confident going into overtime, because we had the game won," she said. "We had the gamo won in regulation." 
After the game, McGraw's tone seemed to indieate that drastic changes would be corning very soon. 
"The upperclassmnn just put a tremendous burden on Megan [DuiTyl to do it all," McGraw said. "You got to have sornnbody step up and have a big game, and that's what Lindsay [Schrader[ is trying to do, and I'm rnally pleased with lwr." 
When prnssnd, MeGraw was even more clear of lwr intnntions for tho imnwdiatl~ future. 
"I ean change who I play, I think that's t.hn answer," slw said. "I think we just got to go with our youth, and start preparing for tlw futun~." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
"Now, I almost feel like we got to play defense to score in the 40s, because we can't score," she said. "There's so much pressure on Megan [Duffy] to do it all. She's han­dling it very well, but we 

However, a 3-pointer with two seconds left by forward Ezria Parsons, who had made only one other three­pointer all season, sent the game into overtime. 
"All we had to 
do was not let 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, January 30, 2006 
win." tie the game at 70. But Foye's 72 total points, including 7 -of-11 sent a sold-out Joyce Center The Irish had a 68-67 lead with drive on the final possession drew three-point shooting from Nardi crowd into a frenzy.
Nova 
continued from page 24 
Quinn said. "They started out well [in] the second half, ... got us in a hole, and we did a great job of fighting back. But once again, we couldn't close it at the end." 
Quinn neared triple-double sta­tistics with 18 points on 6-of-11 shooting, nine rebounds and eight assists. Notre Dame guard Russell Carter (14 points, 8-of-11 free throws), guard Kyle McAlarney 
(13) and center Torin Francis (11) also scored in double figures to help the cpmeback. 
"When [the deficit] is at 17, I'm wondering if it's going to get ugly 
'·· in our building," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "I give our guys a lot of credit for giving [us] a chance to 


Griffin 
-continued from page 24 
Leaning back in his locker room seat after the losses, Irish guard Chris Quinn looks almost as con­fused answering questions as he does confident on the court. Brey sounds like a broken record mak­ing the same comments game after game. 
This begs an important question. How can a team that has suffered so many tough losses continue to press on in a season that is slip­ping away faster than an Allen Ray drive to the basket? 
Notre Dame talks about staying focused, continuing to put itself in situations where it can win games and "claw" its way to the Big East tournament. 
But let's look at it realistically. 

29 seconds to play, despite Carter's fouling out the play before on a reach-in at Foye (18 points, four assists), who made both free throws. 
Quinn responded by firing and missing a deep 3-pointer from the top of the key with time remain­ing on the shot clock. Wildcats guard Mike Nardi {5-of-11 from three, 22 points) contested the shot, and Villanova rebounded and rushed upcourt, finding guard Allan Ray for the lay up and the foul. 
Ray, who led all players in scor­ing with 23 points on 9-of-16 shooting, converted the free throw, putting the Wildcats up two. Quinn drove by Nardi on the ensuing possession and dished to Francis from under the basket to 
Notre Dame needed this one. Brey and the Irish players can say what they want about each game mean­ing the same thing, but a win over 'Nova would have been big. It would have given Notre Dame a win over a top-1 0 opponent in the middle of a difficult conference stretch. 
A victory over the Wildcats would have provided the neces­sary spark heading into Morgantown. If Notre Dame thought Villanova shot a lot of 3s, just wait until West VIrginia opens its own clinic Wednesday. The Mountaineers have taken 519 3­point attempts this season, com­pared to 349 for their opponents. 
It doesn't get easier from there. The Irish play road games against Louisville, Seton Hall, Connecticut and Providence. They are home against Rutgers, South Florida, Marquette and DePaul. 
attention, and Lowry elevated toward the miss for the tip and the win. 
"It'd be harder if we were get­ting blown out by 20 points," Carter said afterwards, "because we [would bel wondering if we're not good enough ... [But] every game, we compete." 
Irish shooting guard Colin Falls, who had made 49.1 percent of his 57 three-point attempts in the past five games, attempted only two shots Saturday against the quick, guard-heavy Wildcats. Notre Dame still managed to go into halftime down only one point, 35-34, by out-rebounding (21-to­
15) and out-shooting {48 percent­to-41 percent) Villanova. 
But Foye, Nardi and Ray would combine to score 63 of Villanova's 
A murderers' row of NCAA pow­erhouses? Not necessarily. But aside from South Florida and DePaul, each team has a better league record than Notre Dame. And as the Irish have already learned this season, every team in the Big East is tough, anyway {DePaul defeated the Irish 73-67 on Jan. 7). 
Notre Dame needs the confi­dence and respect that can only come with a big victory. Beating Villanova would have given Notre Dame a certain mental edge in its remaining games: It would have shown a team that truly believes in itself that they can win the close one. 
And it could have saved Notre Dame's season. 
But instead, the Irish need to continue to figure out how to change the script -a script that if not yet written in pen, gets closer and Ray in the first half. 

"Foye and Ray are pros," Brey said. "Some of it's not just ­when you're playing a team like Villanova -us not [getting the job done]." 
Notre Dame won the tap to begin the game, but neither team scored until Carter made 1-of-2 free throws with 17:00 remain­ing. Francis scored on a pass from Carter next to send the Irish up 3-0, but Ray responded with a 3-pointer to tie the game going into the first timeout. 
From there, Villanova recov­ered temporarily from an early shooting slump, making 3-of-6 to go up 11-9 with 11:56 remaining. Notre Dame then went on a 5-0 run and gained momentum on a Quinn-to-Carter alley-oop that 
with each devastating loss. 
Brey said Saturday his team needs to create its own luck. But in order for a team to create its own luck, it needs to shoot better than 6 7 percent from the free throw line. It needs to box out and elimi­nate second-chance points. It needs to quit making dumb fouls in key situations. 
Maybe a little bit of improve­ment in these areas will begin to rectify the situation. Maybe instead of a 6-foot-1 guard getting a game­winning tip against the Irish, a Notre Dame player will have one of his own. 
The Irish insist it isn't over. And given the makeup of the Big East, they might be right. Six teams have two wins or fewer as of Sunday morning. Another four teams have three wins. 
Notre Dame has a shot to make the statement in Morgantown it 
But the Wildcats made 8-of-16 three-pointers in the first half and held the lead, coming out in the second half on a 24-8 run that fmished with Cunningham's bas­ket. 
"That's how fragile the basket­ball game is," Brey said. "It's been a tough hump for us to get over, a tough hump ... If we can be in game situations and have a chance most of the rest of the year, that's probably all we can ask right now." 
Notre Dame is scheduled to play West Virginia (15-4, 6-0; ranked No. 9/13 at week's end) in Morgantown, W.Va. on Wednesday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
failed to make at home against Georgetown and Villanova. A vic­tory would put the Irish right back in the mix and show everyone this is not a team destined for disap­pointment. But first Notre Dame needs to make it happen. 
So don't be surprised to see a similar look on Brey's face when Notre Dame tips off against West VIrginia. Sure, Brey said at the season's outset that he anticipated difficulty in reaching the Big East tournament, never mind the NCAA tournament. But with that said, a certain sense of panic must be starting to creep into Brey's mind. 
One that not even a slight smile can conceal. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 



Monday, January 30, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS

JOCKULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD 
HE. Ll..() -n-\ E.~ E.\ 
WI-\E:.TI-\E..~ \\-i;; 
I'M 11 WA.'! IOO 
WA.\...1<-IN <..t A~out-~!:) COMFORIA'OI..E. IN 
M\j UoR..M NE.;:q;:..,L~ A 1>o~l"\ Se:i'\ IN<..t'' 
NU.be,oR... DAt-). 1-\ER.E. To 
(.ONS'fANi'L~ 
'r\A.N G OUT. 

IOU.C.I--\tNl:l M~ GE.t-l IT.!\ \....S , \ CAN<r-
6:E. I E'NOI.H.:t\4 o~ E-Y-POS IN0-M~SE.L;;:'. 
) 
HENRI ARNOLD


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
CLECY 

(J 
t02005 Tribune Mediu Survic:ns, Inc. All Righls Reserved 
VARAL 


j 
DYKLIN 
AFTE:R AN HOUR­LONG BATTU.: WITH
riJ 
THE: MARLIN, THE: 
www.jumble.com 
fi?HE:RMAN WA?--­

GLABEN j 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as( )


I I [ 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Pr:ir1t aru,~· here: 
"[ I I I I I I J" 
(Answers Monday) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: WINCE HEDGE REBUKE COERCE Answer: Knitted with a complex stitch -t HER BROW 


CROSSWORD WILL SHORT'Z 
ACROSS 35 Went out, as 67 Greedy 1 Borrow without the tide person's cry intending to 39 "Lord, is _?" 68 Prudential repay competitor
40 Editorial, part 2 6 College 69 Philosopher
42 Swiss river to administrator known as "the
the Rhine Stoic"10 Eyebrow shape 43 Analyze 10 Observer

14 Oak's source grammatically 11 Vision of sugar­
15 Former attorney 45 Prefix with plums dancing general Janet nautical in one's head,16 Hawaiian feast 46 Thomas 
e.g. 11 Terrific Edison 
18 Cupid's Greek 47 Quickly, in DOWN 
counterpart memos 
1 Sly· 19 Ancient 49 Spice in 2 Farming unitPeruvian Christmas 3 Executescookies20 Part of a famous 4 Most serious 1897 editorial 51 Christmas songs 5 Complete
23 Author Fleming 54 River around 6 Leesthe lie de Ia Cite24 Delete 1 Like a ghost's56 Attorneys' org.
2s Christmas drink howling 21 Christmas 57 Editorial, part 3 
s Ever and trimming 62 Prima donna 
9 More 30 First 007 film 64 "Things aren't meddlesome 
31 Tree's anchor looking good" 10 He KO'd 
32 Ballet movement 65 City NNE of Foreman in '74 Paris
in which the 11 Altercation 37 50 In one's 58 Cry to a matey knees are bent 66 Detail 12 Tree that's the birthday suit 
38 59 Germany's source of 

51 Port of Spain ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE chocolate 
40 Edison rival Konrad 
Adenauer,
41 Ancient Greek 52 Have to eat 13 Second-longest 

Der ... river of China 
colony 53 Poe bird 60 Bone near the
44 _Paulo, radius

21 Kramden of 54 Keep others 
Brazil Honeymooners" 46 Artist's maybe s1 Stitching line 22 "_of God," workplace 55 Upper 63 _, amas, 
1985 film 48 Take for granted atmosphere amat ... 26 Sailor, slangily 21 Misstep 
'The awake at night, 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 2s Greek "I" 

credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 29 Film_ 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 30 Rudolph and crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. team Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 33 Spring past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 34 Anger Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young ....;;..L...;..L.;..;..L;;;.L;;;.L.;....L..;;.J 36 Unguent solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
.Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enelosed is $100 for one academic year D Enelosed is $55 for one semester Name---------------------­
Address ___________________ City _______ State ---'-----Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 




HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES HORN ON THIS DAY: .lonny Lang. 25; Sara Gilhcrt. 31; Oprah Winfrey, 52; T<lm Selleck, 61 
Happy Birthday: Make your move even if you don't feel easy ahout it. Just keep in mind that you u(lfl't have to prove anything to anyom· hut yourself. You will hcncllt the most li'<m1 helping otlwrs or a cause you hcli<:\'l' in. Learning should ol·cupy a good portion of the upcoming year. You ar<: going through a tr~tnsition and the more you ohservc. the l>eller. Your numbers arc 6. 19. 20..33, 36, 41 
ARIES tMarch 21-April 19): You will meet some interesting people today hut don't let anyone cause you grief. Stick to your hcl iefs and avoid anyone who is the least hit aggressive or argttmentativc. **** TAllRUS (April 20-May 20): Aggressive action will not get you what you want. Back off and rethink your strategy. A problem with a partner or S<>meone you work with may occupy your mind. Don't let this situation ruin your day. •• GEMINI (May 21-.Jum· 20): Love, romam·c, travel and in general having u good time arc all in the stnrs li.>r you today. Gather together with the people you enjoy being around the most. A projcd that cxdtcs you can produl'C satisfying tt•sults. *'"*** CANCER (.June 21-July 22): Don't ov1~rsp<.·nd on children. cntcrtainrm:nt or self­
. indulgences. Don't overlook something you should he taking care of. An unexpcrted problem will arise. Focus on what you need personally and make the necessary adjustments to your life. *** LEO (.July 2.\-Aug. 22): Everything may he up in the air today. Consider wher<' you see yourself headed in the future. If the people around you don't lit into that picture, reevaluate your relationships hut, if they do, now is the perfect time to talk ahtJUt your future plans. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-St-pl. 22): Changes in your per~onallifc can he expected. Y<lU may l>e preoccupied with work or a project that you arc involved with. Travd and cumrnunicatioos will nut run smoothly. Don't make promises you can't keep aml stick to rules and regulations today. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Doing things with frknds, your lover or l'V<:n children. if you have any, will enhance your relalionships. Don't overspend in the process. Expand on a fahulous creative idea you have. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nnv. 21): Don't pw,h your luck with family, friends or your partner. You can expect to face plenty of opposition to change. Don't u·y to he different today. Stick to what you know is safe. ** SA<.iiTTARfllS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may have u·ouhle making up your mind. Instead. try to fit everything you want to do into whatever time you have. A chance to look into a professional interest will pay off. You can research through the Internet.**** CAI'RICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Focus on what you can do to improve: your hom1: and family life. You may get some opposition from someone you arc dot>e to. Remain l'alm and disntss your plans realistically and you will<:ome to tl·rms with one another. Present whatever you do or say with love.*** AQI.lARllJS (Jan. 20-Feb. !!!):You will have plenty on your mind and lots you want to pursue. Don't get discouraged if someone doesn't want to get invnlved in your plans --proceed on your <lWn. Travel plans shnuld be rescheduled for a later date.*** PISCES !Feh. 19-March 20): Everything will he up in the air ~nd impossible to decipher. Don't coulll on gelling a handout, especially if you dnn't really deserve it. Question your own motives and stop wasting time on something that really doesn't helong to you in the tirsl plac<:. ••• Birthday Baby: You are bright. articulate and often ahead of your Lime. You arc a wanderer, advenlurcr and an inventor. You arc drawn to the umtsual and th<' unfamiliar. 
Eugenia's We/1 sires: astnJadl·ici!.C'omforfim. l'iiJlt'nialost.,;om.ft" t'l'f!fitlt'ntial crm.'iultatir•tl.\ 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

.--------------~­
THE OBSERVER 





PORTS

Monday, January 30, 2006 
page 24 
HOCKEY 
Irish, Buckeyes split 
pair of 1-0 contests 
NO goaltender Brown allows just one score in two weekend gantes 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
One week after being pulled in a 4-3 come-from-behind win over Northern Michigan, Notre Dame goalie Dave Brown got his redemption against Ohio State. 
The junior allowed just one goal over two games as the Irish and Buckeyes split a two-game set, each winning 1-0 at Value City Arena in Columbus, Ohio Friday and Saturday. 
"David reacted pretty well to being pulled at Northern," Notre Dame coach Jell' Jackson said. "He played more [this weeki like he had been playing for the past six or seven weeks." 
Brown was pulled against the Wildcats after allowing three goals in the first period and a half. He was replaced by fresh­man Jordan Pearce, who held Northern Michigan scoreless and allowed the Irish to erase a two-goal deficit. Jackson said the move was intended to be a wake up call for his entire team, not just Brown. 
"It got him back on track, but pulling him was more for the rest of the team than for him," he said. "Dave carne back with good focus and obviously played well this weekend." 
Against the Buckeyes, Brown returned to his old form that has produced six career shutouts, tying him with Morgan Cey for the all-time Notre Dame lead. He made 21 saves Friday and added another 24 Saturday. 
see BUCKEYES/page 21 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 



Team falls in overtime, 68-64 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
If head coach Muffet McGraw's reaction was any indication, Saturday's loss to South Florida may prove to be the model of how Notre Dame's season has gone: pre-game opti­mism quieted by major struggles, topped by a valiant late-game effort that just wasn't quite enough. 
"We just frickin' beat ourselves," said McGraw, who was visibly shaken after the game. "It's frus­trating." 

The Irish, who carne into the game eager to bounce back from a 69-43 loss at Hutgers on Tuesday, fell behind quickly, allowing guard Shantia Grace to make PHIL nuL•<OLo•v•w 
see BULLS/page 21 

Irish guard Megan Duffy drives against South Florida Saturday. Notre Dame lost to the Bulls, 68-64, in overtime. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Another day, another heartbreak 
NO loses to Villanova on tip-in with 1. 7 seconds remaining 
By PAT LEONARD SportS Writer 
It happened again. 

Villanova sophomore guard Kyle Lowry tipped in a Handy Foye miss with 1. 7 seconds remaining Saturday night, hand­ing Notre Dame a 72-70 loss at the Joyce Center. It was the sec­ond straighV loss in which the Irish recovered from a sizeable deficit, only to come up short as the clock wound down. 
Wildcats forward Dante Cunningham's layup gave his team a 59-42 lead with 10:42 remaining. The Irish (10-8, 1-6 Big East) crawled back from the 17 -point deficit, making 16-of-19 free throws down the stretch. 
But just like Tuesday's 85-82 loss to Georgetown -Notre Dame trailed by 15 late in the f'irst half of that game -the Irish could not linish, allowing a 6-foot-1, 190-pound sophomore to invade the lane and steal one for the Wildcats (15-2, 6-1; No. 6 at week's end). 
.._ "[Villanova has I some really explosive players and explosive scorers," Irish point guard Chris 
see NOVNpage 22 

KIRSTEN HOELMER AND PHIL HUDELSONfThe Observer Above, Irish guard Colin Falls defends the perimeter. Below, forward Rob Kurz, left, and guard Kieran Piller look on late in the game. 
Irish try to remain positive after string of frustrating defeats 
Irish coach Mike Brey had a very peculiar look on his face during the opening tip of Saturday's game against Vlilanova. Leaned forward with 
his eyebrows slightly raised, Brey was smil­ing. 
But it could­n't have been a confident grin, coming in with a two­game losing streak against the No. 6 team 
Associate

Sports Editor in the country. 
It was more 
likely one of anxiety. It's at that point for the Irish, who dropped to 1-6 in the Big East Saturday. Not even their head coach seems to know what is going to happen once the game begins. 
The 72-70 loss to Villanova should help Brey understand that Notre Dame's games have played out according to the same unfor­tunate script all season. Play flat and fall behind, come back unex­pectedly and lose a heartbreaker at the end. 
see GRIFFIN/page 22 
TRACK AND fiELD 

Benninger runs n1ile in under4 
By JORDAN BELTZ Sports Writer 
There is a popular saying that records only exist so that they can later be bro­ken. After Friday's Notre Dame Invitational, junior Kurt Benninger is an avid believer of that motto. 
The All.-American Benninger ran a sub-four minute mile for the second time in his careeer, becom­ing the first runner in the 116-year history of the Notre Dame track and field pro­gram to do so. Benninger completed the circuit with a time of 3:58.77, which is the second fastest time in the nation this year, second only to Iona's Hichard Kiplagat. Benninger was less than a second off the Notre Dame record, Luke Watson's 
3:57:83 set in 2002 at the Meyo Invitational. 
"Kurt was especially moti­vated tonight," Irish coach Joe Piane said. "He ran with a purpose tonight, and we're really happy with the way 
see MILE/page 21 


fENCING  MEN'S SWIMMING  MEN1STENNIS  Nil WOMm~s SWIMMING  NO WOMEN'S TENNIS  SMC BASKETBAll  
w  
c.,) z s = ca:: !:;:  Notre Dame Duals Both Irish teams defeat Northwestern, Duke and Wayne State.  Shamrock Invitational Notre Dame defeats four opponents, includ­ing No. 22 Penn State, in last home meet of year.  Irish beat William and Mary 7-0, lose to top-ranked Virginia 4-3 in Richmond, Virginia.  Shamrock Invitational Notre Dame defeats Louisville and Oakland in last meet before Big East Championships.  Notre Dame def. Ohio State, Xavier Irish shut out Buckeyes and Musketeers without losing a set.  Saint Ma&Y."s 58 Tri-State 7 Alison Kessler hit two free throws with six sec­onds left to give the Belles the win.  
page 20  page 20  page 20  page 18  page 18  page 17  

... 

' • f •
. . ' ' ..... . . ... . .
. . .
·... . . . .
' • • • • • f 






ER NSIDER 
OTHE Monday, January 30, 2006 BSERVER Winter Career and Internship Fair 


' 

wednesda~ 
february1 

... 
12:00-2:30pm 
diversity reception 
a networking opportunity for students and organizations embracing diversity 
monogram room, joyce center 
all are welcome to attend 
4pm-8pm 



career & internship fair 
joycecenterfieldhouse 
student ID required 


findoutmore! 
The Career Center 

careercenter.nd.edu 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

every college • every major • internships • full-time 
page 2 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER Monday, January 30, 2006 




Winter 2006 Career and Internship Fair 
________ ... _... 
·················-····· ·------·-··--·----­
············································----······ ··-···· 
2006 Winter Career and Internship Fair Wednesday, february 1, 2006:4 p,m,-8 pstL Joyce Center North Dome Gate 3 WCIF Employer Gukfe and Hiring Index https./lcareercBntl'H'.nd.edu/onl!nedoc.php?docld=:?.712 Organization  'tl f! e' Gl 'tl c: ::1  ..."' ~ 0 .c"' :e a.  8 i 0) "' c. ~ :c ~ ~E ~i= "' c:... ~ r ~"3 .s g h u. .5 .. ~ i&  
Abercrombie & Fitch  *  *  .  .  
Academy Prep Centers  *  *  .  
Accenture  .  .  .  *  
Alliance Benefit Group  .  .  .  
Allstate Insurance  .  .  . .  .  *  
Amate House  .  *  .  
American Eagle Outfitters  *  *  .  .  
American Electric Power Company, Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant  .  .  *  
AmeriCorps St. Louis  .  .  *  .  .  
Ameriprise Financial Services  .  .  .  *  *  
Anning Johnson  *  *  *  .  
AT&T  *  *  *  *  *  
Augustinian Volunteer Program  .  *  .  *  
AXA Advisors  *  .  .  .  *  .  
Becker Professional Review  *  .  *  .  
Bethanna  .  .  *  *  
Better World Books  .  .  *  *  .  
BISYS Private Equity Services  .  .  *  .  .  
Boston Consulting Group  *  .  .  .  
Bowen Center  .  .  *  .  
BUNAC USA  .  *  *  .  
Camp Sweeney  *  *  .  .  
Camp Tecumseh YMCA  .  .  .  
Care mark  .  *  *  .  
Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Chicago  .  .  .  .  
CCA Strategies  .  .  *  *  .  
Center for Social Concerns, Notre Dame  .  .  *  
Central Intelligence Agency  .  *  .  *  
C.H. Robinson Worldwide  .  *  ..  
Chicago Police Department  .  .  .  . .  
Citigroup  .  .  .  .  
Citizens Action Coalition  .  .  .  .  *  
City Year Cleveland  .  *  .  
Clarity Consulting  .  .  . .  
Coachmen Industries  *  . .  
Coca-Cola North America  *  *  .  *  .  
College Football Hall of Fame  *  *  .  .  
Countrywide Financial Corporation  .  .  *  .  .  .  
Credit Suisse  .  .  .  .  
Crowe Capital Markets  .  *  *  .  .  
Crowe Chizek and Company  *  *  .  .  .  
Deloitte  .  *  .  .  
Deutsche Bank  .  .  .  
DHL Express  *  *  .  .  
E&J Gallo Winery  .  .  *  .  .  
Eaton Corporation  .  .  *  *  .  
EchoStar Communications(Dish Network).  *  .  *  .  
EDS  .  *  .  
Enterprise Rent A Car  *  *  .  .  .  
Epic Systems  .  .  .  .  
Ernst & Young  .  .  .  .  
ESPN  .  .  .  .  .  
Federated Insurance  .  .  .  
Fifth Third Bank  .  .  .  
FlightSatety Academy  .  .  .  
Food Bank of Northern Indiana  .  .  .  
Fund for Public Interest Research  .  .  .  
GEICO  *  *  .  *  
General Dynamics C4 Systems  *  .  *  *  
General Electric  .  .  *  .  .  .  .  
General Mills  .  . .  .  
GMS Trading  .  .  *  .  
Goldman Sachs  .  .  .  
Grand Prairie Services Behavioral Healthcare  .  .  .  .  
Grassroots Campaigns  .  .  .  .  
Hampton Roads Youth Center  .  .  .  .  .  
Herren Associates  .  .  .  
Hewlett-Packard  *  .  .  .  .  .  
Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos  .  .  .  
Hillstone Restaurant Group  .  *  .  .  .  .  
Holy Cross Associates  .  .  .  
Huron Consulting Group  .  .  .  .  
Hyatt  .  *  .  .  
IES  *  .  .  
Indiana Dunes Environmental Learning Center  .  .  *  
lnfosys Technologies  .  . .  
Integra Realty Resources  .  .  *  .  
Interlochen Center for the Arts  .  .  .  
Internal Revenue Service  .  .  *  *  
Johnson & Johnson  .  .  .  *  
JPMorgan Chase  .  .  .  
JPMorgan Securities  .  .  .  .  
Ken Herceg & Associates  .  .  .  
Kiewit Western  .  .  .  *  *  
KONE  .  .  .  .  *  
KPMG  .  .  .  .  .  
L-3 Communications  .  .  .  . .  .  
Lands' End  .  .  .  .  .  
Liberty Mutual Insurance  .  *  .  
little Brothers -Friends of the Elderly  .  .  .  .  .  
Lockheed Martin  .  *  .  .  .  .  
lutron Electronics  .  .  .  .  .  
Madison Center for Children  *  .  .  
Madison Police Department  .  .  .  .  


findoutmore! 
For more information about the participating organizations, job descriptions, and contacts, access The Career Center website: 
• 
Go to careercenter.nd.edu/undergrad.php 

• 
Click on Go IRISH 

• 
Enter your NetiD (AFSID} and Password, then click on Log in 

• 
Click on Search Jobs/Internships 

• 
Click on Jobs/Internships for Notre Dame Students 

• 
Scroll down to Keyword Search, type in WCIF or the name of the organization, then click on Search 

• 
For an alphabetical list of: -Organizations, click on "Organization" -Positions, click on "Position Title" 



page 3 

Monday, January 30, 2006 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER 


Winter 2006 Career and Internship Fair 
Park National Bank 
http://www.parknationalbank.com/ 
Undergraduate 
Industries: Banking, Finance, Financial Services, Marketing, Communications, Investment Banking 
Full-time: Credit Analyst, Retail Sales Management Training Program 
Description: Established in 1908, The Park National Bank is the leading community bank in Ohio. Our unique banking style success­fully combines local, personalized service and attention with the resources, security and expertise of a major banking company. We provide a full array of personal and commercial banking and lending services, trust and investment services, online banking and morel 

Join Our Team! 
We are looking for energetic, flexible, and people oriented individuals to join our financial services staff! 
At Park National Bank, you'll find exceptionally rewarding and challenging careers, as well as a competitive salary, an outstanding benefits package, and constant opportunities for professional development. 
At Park National Bank, we believe the key to our remarkable financial strength and continued growth lie in the standards we've set for ourselves, including outstanding personal service and an autonomous business development culture, while retaining the warmth and character of a neighborhood bank. We take pride in our distinguished reputation as Chicagoland's premier group of community bank..:;, and are looking for highly-motivated people to help us continue our path to success! 
For more information, visit our booth at the Career Fair! 
Iii 
PARK NATIONAL BANK 
www.parknatl.com 
Progressive 
ABOUT PROGRESSIVE: In business since 1937, Progressive has grown to be one of the largest car insurance com­panies in the United States, writing auto, motorcycle, recreational vehicle (RV), personal watercraft and commercial auto insurance in 48 states and the District of Columbia. 
THE RIGHT TYPE FOR PROGRESSIVE: If you're resourceful, creative and energetic, you may be right for Progressive. We base our hiring decisions on much more than GPAs, college majors and or{lani­zational styles, because we know that a well-rounded team will yield greater results, perspectives and potential solutions. 
With a variety of career options available across the country, including major sites in Austin, Cleveland, Colorado Springs, 
Phoenix, Sacramento and Tampa, you are bound to find a team that suits your abilities and interests. 
Crowe Chizek and Company LLC 
www.crowechizek.com 
Undergraduate. Masters 
Industries: Accounting, Finance 
Full-time: Staff Accountant Internship: Accounting Intern 
Description: Under its core pur­pose of "Building Value with Values,' Crowe Chizek and Company LLC provides innovative business solutions in the areas of assurance, benefit plan services, financial advisory, forensic servic­es. performance services, risk consulting and tax consulting. Crowe Chizek, a Crowe Group LLP entity, was founded in 1942. With more than 2,000 employees in 20 offices, Crowe is one of the top 10 public accounting and con­sulting firms in the United States. Crowe also serves clients world­wide as a leading member of the Horwath International global pro­fessional services network. 
Protiviti 
www.protiviti.com 
Undergraduate, Masters 
Industry: Consulting ­Accounting and Technology 
Full-time: Internal Audit and Technology Risk Consultant Interviewing Fall of 2006 Internship: Risk Consultant Intern Interviewing Fall of 2006 
Description: Protiviti is the lead­ing provider of independent internal audit and business and technology risk consulting serv­ices. We help clients identify, assess and manage operational and technology related risks encountered in their industries, and assist in the implementation of the processes and controls to enable their continues monitor­ing. 




We have employment opportunities within the following departments: 
• 
Commercial Lending • Hun1an Resources 

• 
Rerail Banking 

• 
Operations 


p,,sitions are availcJble tiJroughout Chicago/and Park Nationc1l Bmtk locations. 
Member FDIC. Equal Opportunity Employer. M/F/DN 


page 4 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER Monday, January 30. 2006 
We believe in sandy feet, beach bonfires and lifelong memories. We believe in vacations:-
Pricewaterhouse Coopers 
http://www.pwcglobal.com/ 
Undergraduate, Masters 
Industry: Accounting 
Full-time: Various Internship: Various 
Description: 
PricewaterhouseCoopers pro­vides assurance, tax, and advisory services for public and private clients primarily in four areas: corporate accountability, risk manage­ment, structuring and mergers and acquisitions, and performance and process improvement. 
Enter our vacation sweepstakes at pwc.com/freevacation 
Your life. You can bring it with you. 


..;-,. 


.._.<­


,. 
*connectedthinking 

1. No (.H.ii'Cf:ase nec.es::VH'Y 2. f~}"weep~:t::::.kes ~.)e~j:ins '1/tf/06. ~~-()pen to US r$sid&nts 18 & o!r~er, whc .?~re students at. a p.:~rticlpatinp c~)!k-,:ge or ~mlvsrsitv. ,1__ Visit P·'-'VC.G<)rn/ire.&v<1GMion for details WKi compiete ;-)!fk;iai ru!~s. 
2Dnf; Prk.>r=.;wuV;~~l<JuSr=JGoo[·~er~~ LLP. All n:;;fl":tt.~ rPtH?nt;:Jd. "Prn:;ew<..~t(:'rr1ot..m~:{~ocpw.:s" rt.:'k~n:;: to Pri<..::€wutBrhouseCocpf:Jrs LLP (<'t f.k~uware inuh.v1 hat:"~ihiy pBrtnershtpJ o~·. H~:; thfJ cont~~xl rt:>qu~r6~:,., ethi.:r rnGrnt;:;;r f1rrn~ :;.f Pricc-~w.:::~tccri·-:ou&eCoop:ers !nt:::nlt..:ttionHi Umit<:.1d. each cf wl:ich is a s:::paratf:< nrtd ;nd:::pe:ndrsnt i:3ntity. ~conn:::ctco)ctHtnkh-g js a tr::d(:1:n::;lrk of Pricewaterhout~eC('.>GpO:rs U . .P (US). i./>.!0: .)rf:> t')fOtod to t.li~ c·m Aff;rm.ativ::; J\Cti<::n an [(~ua! Opportunity t.rnpioyf.H · 
.. 
I 

Monday, January 30, 2006 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER page 5 


Winter 2006 Career and Internship Fair 

We believe everyone's more successful in a flexible environment. 
We want you to succeed. That's why we've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. At Ernst &Young we're offering an opportunity to learn from some of the best talent in the industry. So visit us on campus, or on the Web at ey.comjusjcareers. Whatever's best for you. We're flexible. 
Quality In Everything We Do 

Eaton Corporation www.eaton.com Undergraduate Industry: Manufacturing Full-time: Financial Leadership Development Program Internship: Eaton Multicultural Scholars Summer Intern Program Description: Eaton is a global leader in fluid power systems and services for industrial, mobile and aircraft equipment: electrical sys· terns and components for power quality, distribution and control; automotive engine air man·age­ment systems, powertrain solu­lions and specialty controls for performance, fuel economy and safety; and intelligent truck drive-train systems for safety and fuel economy.  
Rolls-Royce www.rolls-royce.com Undergraduate Industries: Accounting, Finance, Marketing Internship: Finance, Marketing Description: Rolls-Royce started as an aero-engine company, and now they are a world leading power sys-terns provider, designing, manufacturing and support­ing a comprehensive range of products and services. Rolls-Royce has operations in the civil and defense aerospace, marine and energy markets.  
Ernst & Young www.eycom Undergraduate, Masters Industry: Accounting Full-time: Various Description: Ernst & Young helps companies to deal with a broad range of business issues. Our 103,000 people in over 140 coun­tries worldwide can implement a broad array of solutions for critical business performance issues.  

page 6 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER Monday, January 30. 2006 

Winter 2006 Career and Internship Fair 
Flightsafety Academy 
If a pilot career is your goal, FlightSafety Academy will provide the best opportunity to make it happen! 
www. flightsafetyacademy. com 
Undergraduate, Masters 
Industry: Corporate Aviation, Regional Airlines 
Full-time: FlightSafety Academy is always looking for experienced flight instructors. 
Description: FlightSafety Academy provides unique and successful avenues to an exciting career in aviation. The Academy is a part of FlightSafety International --a wholly owned subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Since the 1950's, FlightSafety has provided Corporations, Airlines, and the Military the high­est standard in flight and marine training. The Academy can help you reach your pilot career goals in as little as one year. Three avenues of training include: Advanced Airline Training Program, Business Jet Direct, and Academy Instructor Path. 
Federated Insurance 
www.federatedinsurance.com 
Undergraduate 

Industries: Banking, Finance, Insurance, Management, Communications, Marketing, Sales 
Full-time: Marketing Development Trainee, Marketing Representative 

Description: Federated is one of the largest mutual company insurers of property and liability insurance in the United States and is listed in Fortune Magazine's "Fortune 1,000 Companies." 
DHL Express 
www.dhl.com 
Undergraduate 
Industries: Sales, Transportation 
Full-time: Account Representative 
Description: For more than 35 years, DHL has built the world's premier global delivery network by trailblazing express shipping in one coun­try after another. Over 220 countries and territories later, DHL is the global market leader of the international express and logistics industry. DHL specializes in providing customers with innovative and customized transportation solutions from a single source. 
General Electric 
www.gecareers.com/GECA­REERS!jsp/us!index.jsp Undergraduate, Masters, PhD 
Industries: Engineering, Finance, Environmental, Information Technology, Manufacturing 
Full-time: Various Internship: Various 
Description: GE is a diversi­fied services, technology, and manufacturing company. GE operates in more than 1 00 countries and employs nearly 315,000 people worldwide, including nearly 170,000 in the United States. 


... we hove. Our GEnx engine uses advanced compression and combustion technology to achieve dramatic gains in fuel efficiency and lower emissions than any other engine in its class. We call this ecomagination. At GE we invite you to lift your ecomagination through a career in engineering, finance, manufacturing, sales and marketing, human resources, or information technology. 
Representatives from GE's Financial Management Program, Information Management leadership Program, Edison Engineering Development Program and Commercial leadership Program will be at the Winter Career & Internship Fair to answer your questions. 
To learn more about these leadership programs, visit www.gecareers.com/notredame 
ecomaginationsM 
to learn more visit us at gecareers.com/notredame 
an equal opportunity employer 


A diversified technology, financial services, media 
imagination at work company. 
... 
. . 

Monday, January 30, 2006 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER page 7 


Winter 2006 Career and Internship Fair 
KONE 
http://www.kone.com 
Undergraduate, Masters 
Industry: Sales 
Full-time: Sales Representative 
Description: KONE is the world's fourth largest elevator and escalator compa­ny and provides complete and innovative solutions for the installation, maintenance and moderniza­tion of elevators and escalators and the mainte­nance of automatic building doors. 

The heart of your building ~~=m 
KONE is a global leader in providing complete and innovative solutions for the installation, maintenance and mod­ernization of elevators and escalators and the maintenance of automatic building doors. KONE provides safe and easy access to hundreds of millions of people daily in all parts of the world. KONE has annual net sales of approximately EUR 2.9 billion and about 25,000 employees. Its class B shares are listed on the Helsinki Exchanges. 
Camp Sweeney 
www.campsweeney. org 
Undergraduate 
Industries: Education, Nonprofit 
Internship: Activity Counselors, General Counselor 
Description: The Southwestern Diabetic Foundation was founded with the purpose of operat­ing a residential camp for children who have diabetes. After 52 years, Camp Sweeney is regarded as one of the world's largest and most effective diabetes educational facilities. 
Walgreens 

www. walgreens.com!careers 
Undergraduate 
Industries: Finance, Management, Marketing 
Full-time: Retail Management Trainee Internship: Retail Management Internship 

Description: Walgreens is America's best-known, largest volume pharmacy retailer. They lead the U.S. chain drugstore industry in sales, store growth, and profits. 
WANlTO MAKE A 

DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
COME FOR AJOB INTERVIEW TO WORK AT: 


CAMP SWEENEY 
a l'esldentlal spol'ts camp In Nol'th Texas tot' chlldl'en who have diabetes 
INTERVIEWS: 
Debartolo Hall -Tues. Jan 31st. 8-9 pm Joyce Center-Wed, Feb 1st. 4-8 pm Flanner Hall -Thurs. Feb 2nd, 9 am -5 pm 
INTERVIEWER: Skip Rigsby 940-768-8250 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer. 




page 8 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER Monday, January 30. 2006 


Winter 2006 Career and Internship Fair 

Would you like to work with kids after graduation? 
The Mercy Works program at Mercy Home for Boys & Girl seeks highly motivated men and women \vho wish to acquir social service ex perience while making a difference in the lives of hurt ing children. Benefits include room and bo health insurance, professional training and supervis ion, lo forbearance and an AmeriCorps Education Award. 
For more information contact the Mercy Works Program Manager at 312-738-6:?69 or visit W"\Vw.mercyhome.org 
Mercy Home for Boys and Girls 
http://www.mercyhome.org/site /PageServer 
Undergraduate 
Industries: Nonprofit, Social Services 
Full-time: MercyWorks Volunteer 
Description: Mercy Home for Boys and Girls is an open, long-term residential home for troubled youth. Our eight pro­grams offer each youth the structure and independence to work through their emotional difficulties and the opportunity to achieve academic success. 





KPMG 

http://www.kpmg.com/ 
Undergraduate, Masters 
Industry: Accounting 
Full-time: Various Internship: Various 

Description: KPMG is an accounting and tax firm that offers clients a powerful combination of people, products, technologies, and· results-oriented strategies to help meet their chal­lenges and improve per­formance. 

Ready for a floodtide of career opportunities? Then you're ready for a career at KPMG. We're the Big Fpur audit, advisory, and tax firm with the strongest growth record over the past decade. And we're always looking for the next wave of talented newcomers. Including you. For more information on career opportunities at KPMG, please contact Christina Wiley, Campus Development Manager at: cwiley@kpmg.com or call 312-665-1000. Then dive right in. 
www.kpmgcampus.com 

AUDIT • TAX • ADVISORY 

KPMG Affirmative Action, Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F/DIV. 
t 200!1 KPMG LLP. the US. mombsr tum (If KPMG lnUiflllrtlonaJ, 01 Swiu tooplrlll!\11!1 AU <IUIII• rUtlt\'tlc/ 
--.-.-,------------------------,---------,
.. 
Monday, January 30, 2006 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER page 9 
Talbots 
www. talbots. com 
Undergraduate 
Industries: Management, Marketing, Retail, Sales 
Full-time: Sales Associate 
Description: Talbots is a leading national specialty retailer, cataloger, and a­tailer of classic apparel, shoes and accessories. Talbots operates 886 stores throughout the U.S., Canada, and the United Kingdom. Its catalog has a circulation of approximately 50 million. 


Hat Scarf Jacket Shirt Dre.c..s 

Belt Blouse Tie SJ.t-irt 
•:.~ 



page 10 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER Monday, January 30. 2006 


Winter 2006 Career and Internship Fair 
Sun Life Financial 
www.sunlife.com 
Undergraduate 
Industries: Insurance, Sales 
Full-time: Employee Benefits Sales Representative 
Description: Sun Life Financial is a leading inter­national financial services organization providing a diverse range of wealth accumulation & protection products to individuals and corporate customers. 
..........,.
,4_/ ..
r 

~-...../ ~ 
Sun~..~ Life Financial® 
A Sun Life Financial Career in ... 
Employee Benefits Sales 
The Position 

As an Employee Benefits Sales Representative, you will market our group insurance benefits through a network of insurance brokers, third-party administra­tors and consultants. Your responsibility is to build relationships with these key contacts, who then mar­ket our Group Life, Disability and Medical Stop-Loss benefits to some of the U.S.'s leading employers. 
Interested? 

Visit our table at the Winter Career Fair on Wednesday, February 1st to find out about the next Sun Life Financial on-campus recruitment event, and plan on attending. We look forward to meeting you! 
Visit us at www.sunlife-usa.com 
Huron Consulting Group 
http://www.huronconsultinggroup.c 
om! 
Undergraduate 
Industries: Accounting, Finance, Consulting 
Internship: Analyst Intern 
Description: Huron Consulting Group LLC is an independent provider of financial and opera­tional consulting services. They employ their expertise in accounting, finance, economics and operations to a wide variety of both financially sound and dis­tressed organizations, including Fortune 500 companies, medium­sized and large businesses, lead­ing academic institutions, health­care organizations and the law firms that represent these various organizations. 
Academy Prep Centers 

http://www.academyprep.org 
Undergraduate 
Industries: Arts, Nonprofit, Education 

Full-time: Americorps Teacher 
Description: Academy Prep Centers are private schools for economically disadvantaged students with the ability and desire to suc­ceed in a rigorous academic program. AmeriCorps teachers serve a vital role at Academy Prep. They teach classes, supervise activities, and work closely with students and professional teachers 





Interested in Teach for America or the ACE Program? 
I
Check out Americorp teaching opportunites 1n sunny F1oridi! 


Academy Prep Centers of 
Academy Prep AmeriCorps teachers receive: 
* 
a fully-furnished rent and utility-free apartment with private bathrcx:m and bedrcx:m 

* 
full health insurance (dental available at lav CDSt) 


* up;Jrade::l cable or satellite televisim 
* 
local phone service 


* 
a $450 monthly stipend 

* 
a $80 bi-weekly meal allowance *a $4,735 education award upon completion of service 


* school/apartments located minutes away fran beaches and attractions in beautiful Tampa Bay 
* apfX)rtunity to gain guidEd. teaching experience, plan curriculums, and change lives 
NJ teaching certification required, just a carrnitrnent to heighten expectations of minority and lCJN­incane students. HON successful is this service teaching prc:x;Jrarn? 
---------.-.-.------------~----,---------------­
Monday, January 30, 2006 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER page 11 



Winter 2006 Career and Internship Fair 
Morgan Stanley 
http://www.morganstanley.c om/ 
Undergraduate, Masters, 
PhD 
Industry: Financial Services 
Full-time: Financial Advisor 
Description: Morgan Stanley has earned a worldwide reputation for excellence in financial advice and market execution. The 53,760 members of Morgan Stanley in 28 countries con­nect people, ideas and cap­ital to help their clients achieve their financial aspi­rations. 

Invest in your future? Count i 
N 

-
http://my.countrywide.com/ 
Undergraduate, Masters 
Industries: Accounting, Finance, Sales 
Full-time: Sales Associate, 
Financial/Margin Analyst 
Internship: Financial Analyst 
Description: Countrywide 
Financial Corporation is 
more than a mortgage banking 
company. They are a 
growth-oriented financial serv­
ices organization with 
operations on an increasingly 
global scale. Their 
diversification includes capital 
markets, insurance and 
banking services with 
Countrywide Bank. 



page 12 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER Monday, January 30. 2006 


Winter 2006 Career and Internship Fair 

A S~ectctl Thctii\,R you to OUY CorpoYette S~OV\,SOYS! -Platinum­§!J ERNST& YOUNG 
Quality In Everything We Do

c1t1groupt' Deloitte. 
• GE imagination at work 
-
TARGET CORPORATION 
.JPMorganO 
--e-­



i 
*UBS 1 
-Gold­


-Silver­

~DI, Hewleii•Paclla•cl, Talllolt, & The Vant~•••cl G•oup 

The Diversity Reception 
is a networking event designed to allow students to connect and build relationships with organizations that 
"' embrace and promote diversity. 
Faculty and Staff are encouraged to attend! VVednesday,February 1st 
The Diversity Reception Noon -2:30pm precedes 
Winter Career and Internship Fair 4pm-8pm at the Joyce Center. 
-----------'--------------------' 






