Donnelly ousts Chocola; ND, SMC alums win races 
By RYAN SYDLIK 
News Writer 
i. After a neck-and-neck, negative campaign that drew national attention, Democratic challenger and Notre Dame graduate Joe Donnelly defeated incumbent Republican Chris Chocola in Tuesday's election for control of Indiana's 2nd District in the U.S. House of Representatives. 
American Studies professor and
t 
South Bend Tribune political columnist 
Jack Colwell said Indiana's 2nd r Congressional District was a more ~ favorable environment for Donnelly I than it was in 2004. 
] 
"[Donnelly] needed to do better [to win compared to last election] and he did," Colwell said. 
Colwell said Donnelly polled well, not 
see RESULTS/page 6 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Democrats reclaim House in close election 
Students follow election results for Jwme state races 
By RYAN SYDLIK 
News Writer 
Gathered around plasma screen tele­visions, alternately cheering or biting their nails, the students lingering in LaFortune Tuesday night could have been watching a big game. But rather than waiting for the latest jumps in BCS rankings, these watchers were antici­pating midterm election results. 
Their reactions varied from cheerful­ness to apathy, as they tracked televised election coverage. 
Sam Chen, a graduate student from China who has lived in the United States for four years, said he learned much about American politics by watching the results. 
''I'm not from the States," he said. "It's defmitely the event of the night. Even 
see REACTION/page 6 
Business students present tax proposal in D.C. 

ByJENNIFER METZ 
News Writer 
When Professor James Wittenbach asked his graduate students to develop a new tax law proposal, he never imagined what would result. 
What Tax Researchffax Policy students James Flaherty, Andree Johnson and David McCormick originally deemed an opportunity to meet classmates turned into a trip to ·washington D.C to poten­tially change a federal tax law. 
Wittenbach spoke to Notre Dame graduate Jim Jaeger, Deputy National Tax Managing Partner for Deloitte, over the sum­mer to expand his course's ice­breaker into a more serious aspect of the class. 
CSTV game broadcast limits watch options 
The 36 students in the class divided themselves into groups of three to develop tax law proposals they felt would benefit taxpayers, as well as the economy and the environment. 
Professionals from Deloitte & Touche along with Professor Ken Milani, advisor to the Tax Assistance Progam, judged the class' 12 proposals. 
Flaherty, Johnson and McCormick's proposal, focused on education and also on providing financial rewards for graduates and their parents, was chosen by Deloitte and Milani to be present­ed the National Tax Office of Deloitte in Washington D.C. 
The three winners put in a "decent amount of time" outside of the classroom doing research and developing their ideas, Johnson said. 
"Being graduate students, we have all been through quite a bit of education to date," Johnson said. "The assignment was to make one change to the way income taxes are computed, so naturally we turned our thoughts to education and whether or not there was room for a new credit in the current tax code." 
Flaherty said they "felt that this was a pressing need for our coun­try when looking at education lev­els across the board." 
The students' proposal includes a $1,000 tax credit for the parent or legal guardian of a high school graduate, a $2,000 tax credit for the student graduating with a bachelor's degree and a $1.000 
see TAX!page 6 
By AARON STEINER News Writer 
Channel surfing, adjusting your antenna and even smack­ing the television set will not gain most local Notre Dame fans access to Saturday's Notre Dame-Air Force game. 
The game will be aired on the CSTV network -a channel that is solely available in select cable markets throughout the nation, excluding Notre Dame's campus and the South Bend area. 
CSTV -a three-year-old col­lege sports network owned by CBS Corporation -has rights to the game through a contract with the Mountain West Conference, of which Air Force is a member. 
This marks the first time since the Oct. 31, 1992 Notre Dame-Navy game that a Notre Dame football game will not be available on NBC, ABC, CBS or ESPN. The 1992 Navy game was broadcast locally by WNDU. 
On Saturday, however. South Bend Comcast Cable will not air the game locally. Fans can visit UND.com or CSTV.com to watch the game. 
Viewers who sign up before 
see CSTV/page 6 


Seasonal disorder affects students 
By COURTNEY BALL page 2 Wednesday, November 8, 2006 
News Writer  
The onset of winter means not  
only the end of football season and  
progressively colder temperatures,  
but also fewer hours of daylight ­ 
a  change that leaves some stu­ 
dents with more than just the win­ 
tertime blues.  
The struggle to adjust to the  
waning daylight hours and colder  
weather causes some students to  
suffer from Major Depression  
Seasonal  Pattern,  commonly  
known  as  Seasonal  Affective  
Disorder (SAD), said Wendy Settle,  
staff  psychologist  with  the  
University Counseling Center. SAD  
affeets  about  10  million  
PAMELA LOCK!The Observer Agirl walks through the snow In the D6 parking lot. Cold  Americans, she said, with an addi­ 
weather and shorter days cal cause Seasonal Affective Disorder.  see SAD/page 3  


The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Exciting sites around the Bend 
After spending the summer in the city that most of us only call home for nine months, I have come to realize that South Bend is much more than just the home of the Fighting Irish. Rather, Rosemary Walsh South Bend 
is the home to many 

Ads Design 
unique treas­ures that are often left unexplored by us part-time resi­dents. When dorm parties, the bar scene -or lack thereof-and the cold weather get old, start explor­ing the city of South Bend. 
Because I, too, have fallen victim to boredom in South Bend, I want to offer you a list of places to spend some time discovering and believe me, they have more to offer than just the usual Notre Dame para­phernalia. 
Some of the unique places that I have visited include the beautiful diamond of Coveleski Stadium, the home of the South Bend Silverhawks. A personal favorite of mine, Dollar Mondays bring in a wide array of baseball fans. 
From the casual baseball fans who are drawn in by the dollar tickets and the dollar hot dogs, to the diehard Silverhawks fans­yes, there actually are some who know the lineup-this evening at the ball park is a guaranteed good time. 
To get a little culture, be sure to visit one of my favorite restaurants on McKinley Avenue called Mazatlan. With wonderful authen­tic Mexican food, Mazatlan is staffed by waiters from various countries in South America. 
Although I wonder how in the world they heard of South Bend, Ind., and even more, why they decided to move here, I am thank­ful for the wonderful Larissa Quesadillas and suggest them to all. 
And now for the grand finale: my all time favorite, The View. Located on Jefferson Blvd, this establish­ment, which opened in the 1920s, is the home of the ghost Marley and delicious cheeseburgers. During prohibition, it is rumored that seven people were assassinat­ed here. But don't let this scare you from venturing into this small, quaint bar. 
The deals are reason enough to visit. On Tuesdays, burgers and pitchers are $2.50 each. If this does not bring you in, the townies will offer you plenty of entertain­ment and wonderful stories as well. 
Just remember when visiting The View there are four rules on the jukebox that apply to all. No Rap. No Heavy Metal. No Refunds. And No Whining. 
Contact Rosemary Walsh at 

rosemarytwalsh@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Nov. 7 edition ofThe Observer a letter to the editor titled "A woman's view on Plan B" was incorrecdy attributed to Shawn Ahmed. It was actually written by Renee Woodward. Woodward's letter will run again in the Nov. 9 edition ofThe Observer. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU WISH SAINT MARY'S WAS A CLOSED CAMPUS? 







Allison Fleece 
JUnwr offcampus 
"No, because I don't feel that SMC has a big issue with security. ,, 

Allison Klein 
junior LeMans 
"No, because our security is Nazi-like 
,, 
anyway. 
Kim Harris 
JUnzor 
Regina 
"No, because it 
will block off 
any access to 
our campus.,, 

Kristen Starkey 
freshman McCandless 
"No, I feel safe on Saint Mary ·s campus and don't think we need the extra security.,, 
Lauren Goodwin 
junior offcampus 

"No, because driving to class would be a 
hassle.,, 


OFFBEAT 

Hill denies disappointment over CMA loss 
NEW YORK-Faith Hill insists she's no Kanye West. The country music superstar says she was just joking when cameras showed her screaming "WHAT?" in apparent anger when she lost the female vocalist of the year award to newcomer Carrie Underwood at the Country Music Association Awards on Monday night in Nashville. 
"The idea that I would act disrespectful towards a fel­low musician is unimagin­able to me," Hill said in a statement. "For this to become a focus of attention given the talent gathered is utterly ridiculous. Carrie is a talented and deserving Female Vocalist ofThe Year." 
Media outlets and blogs zeroed in on Hill's reaction after Underwood's name was announced at the cere­mony. 
Woman in Shakira shaking contest sues 
NEW YORK -A woman who said she fell off a slip­pery bar and injured herself while dancing in a "Shake-It­Like-Shakira" contest is suing the Manhattan saloon that sponsored the competi­tion. 
Megan Zacher, 22, of 
Delanco, N.J., fell at Calico Jack's Cantina on 42nd Street and Second Avenue on July 8, 2006, her lawyer, Lawrence Simon, said Tuesday. He said the fall caused a tom knee ligament that required surgery. 
Simon said Zacher and two friends were celebrating a birthday. She had been at the crowded establishment about an hour, was working on her second drink and was danc­ing on the bar, vying for the $250 "Shake-lt-Like­Shakira" prize, when she fell, Simon said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0:: 
LLI 
:c 
=: 
LLI 
~ 



t ••• 'it 
< ~ 

~ t
(,) 

0 HIGH 65 HIGH 55 HIGH 65 HIGH 62
..I 

LOW 53 LOW 53 LOW 52 LOW 53 
IN BRIEF 

Health Services is again dis­tributing free flu shots today from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. at Stepan Center. Shots are available to all Notre Dame students, facul­ty, staff, ·retirees and spouses of retirees. All recipients must present their current ND iden­tification card, wear short sleeves, and sign a consent form. 
There is an informational meeting for Kellogg/Kroc Undergraduate Research Grants tonight from 6:30 to 
7:30 in C-103 Hesburgh Center. Summer 2006 recipi­ents will discuss how to choose a topic, write the proposal, pre­pare a budget and other perti­nent issues for applying for the grant. 
The play "Big Love" contin­ues tonight at 7:30 in the Philbin Studio Theatre of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Student tickets are $8. Performances continue until Nov. 12. and restart Nov. 14 through the 17. 
The Saint Mary's Department of Music will present A Fall Choral Concert Thursday at 
7:30 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The play Celebrating Wendy: An Evening of Wasserstein One-Acts will take place Nov. 9-11 at 7:30 
p.m. and at 2:30 p.m. Sunday in Saint Mary's Little Theatre. Tickets are $9­adults, $8-senior citizens, $7 -SMC/ND staff and $6-stu­dents. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsn ews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


HIGH 59 HIGH 48 LOW 40 LOW 35 
Atlanta 631 48 Boston 61 I 53 Chicago 68 I 47 Denver 78 132 Houston 831 64 Los Angeles 77 I 53 Minneapolis 60 I 45 New York 61 I 52 Philadelphia 63 I 53 Phoenix 90 I 59 Seattle 52 I 38 St. Louis 67 I 53 Tampa 77 I 59 Washington 59 I 51 

Wednesday, November 8 2006 page 3 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
SUB explains game watch absence; Shirt president approved 

Legal complications prevent TV broadcast 
By KATHLEEN McDONNELL 
News Writer 

The lack of an Air Force game watch, record sales of The Shirt and an overview of student gov­ernment's role comprised Tuesday's Council of Representatives (COR) meeting in LaFortune. 
Student Union Board (SUB) director Pat Vassel explained to the council that legal issues pre­vent SUB from hosting a game watch for Saturday's football game against the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado. 
"Legal issues between Comcast and CSTV (College Sports Television Programming), the sta­tion that is broadcasting the game, will not allow us to broad­cast the game as of today," Vassel said. "All questions about not hav­ing a game watch should be directed to Comcast." 
Student activitiP.s advisor Amy Geist explained that the Comcast cable provider for Chicagoland and Northern Indiana, with whom Notre Dame has a contract, does not offer the possibility of carrying the CSTV channel. As of now, SUB has no way to show the game. 
Sophomore class president Lulu Meraz mentioned a link she saw on Facebook.com that would allow students to watch the game by signing up online. Geist offered the possibility of students paying for and downloading the game from CSTV, but "students must be careful to follow the University regulations for broadcasting," she said. Both Geist and Vassel expressed hope that the situation would improve before kickoff on Saturday. 
Along the lines of Irish football, The Shirt president Rich Fox informed the council of this year's record-breaking sales. 
"We sold 152,000 shirts so far, breaking the previous record by 17,000," Fox said, "so we're pret­ty excited with where we are." 
Fox presented his nomination for the 2007 The Shirt President, Brad LeNoir. The council unani­mously approved the Dillon soph­omore for the post. 
LeNoir's goals include making sales of next year's The Shirt just as successful a..'> this year's. 
"We're going to try and take the project a little more national, piggy-backing on Fox's initiative this year," LeNoir said. "Otherwise we're just going to try and live up to the impressive 152,000." 
LeNoir declined to admit a pref­erence for the color of next year's shirt, diplomatically vowing to abide by the preferences of the entire The Shirt committee. In other CLC news: 
+ Tuesday's meeting featured the second presentation in a 
series of spotlights on the different organizations COR members rep­resent. This week's presentation was on student government and Shappell gave an overview of her administration's work since taking over in the spring. 
+ Shappell, vice president Bill Andrichik and chief executive assistant Liz Brown each dis­cussed the work of the senate committees they individually over­see. Shappell described the work of the gender issues committee in organizing the Eating Disorder conference, set for Feb. 8-10, as "one of the more ambitious proj­ects of [her] administration." 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 
said. and one-third have relatives winter in South Bend, Link said get a full assessment and possi­"We have seen very few stu­afflicted with SAD, Settle said. she is worried about the colder ble treatment," Settle said. 
SAD 
dents who have the full criteria But all students should be weather on its way. The treatment for SAD may for it," Settle said. "A lot more aware of the symptoms and "I am used to having constant include cognitive therapy, bright
continued from page 1 
students have a seasonal pat­risks, she said. sunshine and I do not know how light therapy and in some cases, 
tern to depression symptoms, Cold winter weather and its the lack of it will affect my antidepressant medication, she tional 24 million suffering from also called the winter doldrums location above the 32-degree mood," she said. said. milder symptoms. or winter blues." latitude line make South Bend Freshman Malisha Because lack of exposure to 
The darker evenings and But this doesn't mean Notre residents vulnerable to SAD, Samarasekera, of Dublin, Ohio, sunlight is thought to be a major increased pressure to stay Dame students are not at risk Settle said. said she has noticed a change in component in the development indoors and study puts students for developing SAD. "If someone has a predisposi­peoples' dispositions as the days of SAD, using a bright light box at additional risk for depression. Contemporary Topics instructor tion [for SAD], then with this cli­grow shorter. each morning for a half-hour to 
"Symptoms include an Marisha Schmidt warns fresh­mate they are more suscepti­"People have been a lot less an hour has been shown to help increase in appetite, weight men in her course about the ble," Settle said. "As people upbeat since fall break," alleviate symptoms, Settle said. gain, fatigue, a tendency to risk factors for SAD. become· more familiar with it, Samarasekera said. "The beneficial effects of oversleep, and difficulty getting "Individuals most susceptible we see more students afflicted Fortunately, there is treat­bright light therapy can be seen out of bed in the morning," are women between the ages of with it." ment available for those suffer­in as little as two to four Settle said. "It can be quite 20 and 40 whose families have a Freshman Robin Link, who ing from Major Depression weeks," Settle said. debilitating." history of SAD," Schmidt said. hails from Saint Petersburg, Seasonal Pattern, Settle said. 
Fortunately, Notre Dame stu­Two-thirds of people who Fla., said the weather in her "If a student sees a seasonal dents seem to have had few develop SAD have family mem­hometown rarely dips below 40 pattern to his moods, go to the Contact Courtney Ball at serious cases in the past, she bers who suffer from depression degrees. Heading into her first University Counseling Center to cball@nd.edu 
We now offer the most popular student apartments and townhouses in the area! 
Leasing for 2007-2008 school year 
Notre Dame Apartments Lafayette Square Townhouses 
835 Notre Dame Avenue 424 N. Frances Street 
• 
2-bedroom Apartments • 4 and 5 Bedroom Townhouses 

• 
Spacious 1 , 1 00 sq. ft. units • 6 Blocks from Campus 

• 
Within Walking Distance to NO (2 Blocks} • 2 Bathrooms 

• 
Qff...Street Parking • Qff..street Parking 

• 
On-Site Laundry • Washer and Dryer 

• 
Water Utility Included in Rent • Dishwasher 

• 
Central Air • Central Air 

• 
Secured Exterior Doors with Intercom System • Security System 



Calf today -these units are renting quickly View aU of our houses, apartments and townhouses at www.kramerhouses.com 
Contact Kramer at (574) 315-5032 or f574J 234-2436 
---------------------·~---------------------------------------------------------_. 

Wednesday, November 8, 2006 
page4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

FACULTY SENATE 



Senators approve use of electronic minutes 
Members discuss use ofhonor code test 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Assistant News Editor 
Faculty Senate chair Seth Brown opened the group's meet­ing Tuesday night with a request that it be a brisk one so "we can go home to watch the election results with either pleasure or pain" -and brisk it was, with little debate accompanying the items discussed. 
The primary proposal of the night was for the electronic approval of Faculty Senate min­utes. Brown explained that the rationale for the distribution 
and approval of meeting min­utes by e-mail, rather than at the group's next meeting, was to "accelerate the process by which the min­utes are made available." 
The minutes -or the list of what was said by whom at each meeting ­are normally typed up within five days, but 
currently cannot be made avail­able for all non-Senate faculty members until they are approved by the group a month later, Brown said. 
The proposal calls for the min­utes to be forwarded to senators by e-mail, and unless any sub­stantive changes are made, they will be automatically approved 
after five days. 
"Historically, there is seldom any contention about the min­utes. Ninety percent of the changes are usually in regards to the attendance ros­ter," Brown said. "This change would stream­
line  meetings  
and  decrease  
the  time  

between when we have meet­
ings and when the minutes are available." 
If, in fact, a senator finds a point of contention in the min­utes, they would be able to request that the approval be made at the next meeting in order to allow for discussion. 
Brown also pointed out that switching to electronic approval does not require a change in the bylaws, so if the new system doesn't work, it can be tweaked. 
REE!!!~t~ 
xrwJOI!I'!'ill"e_.. __

ancy Testing9 
. ,Q 907 E. LA SALLE AVE. 234·0363 ~{j;J 20041RONWOOD CIRCLE 273·8986 www.womenscarecenter.org 
-n· · 

..This change would streamline meetings and decrease the time between when we have meetings and when the minutes are available.,, 
Seth Brown chair Faculty Senate 
..It's less because we ·re not trusting students, but because they·re changing environments, and new situations come 
,, 
up. 
Philipe Collon member Student Affairs Committee 
The proposal passed unani­mously. 
Philipe Collon, speaking for the Faculty Senate's Student Affairs Committee, brief1y recounted the committee's dis­cussion about Notre Dame's Academic Honor Code. Collon focused mainly on the test on the honor code required of every incoming freshman, indi­cating that the questions asked on the exam were "very inter­esting," and more complex than just "I looked at my neighbor's exam, was I cheating?" 
He said the committee has been looking at whether or not undergraduate students should take the test every year. 
"It's less because we're not trusting students, but because they're changing environments, 
several indicating that they have heard of honor code problems with that group -especially with international students com­ing to Notre Dame with different concepts of what is "honorable." 
Another point Collon brought up was the problem of health care for graduate students, both 
in that they 
to come to Notre Dame but don't because the health care system is so bare." 
The next meeting of Faculty Senate will be on Dec. 6, at which, as Brown announced, Executive Vice President John Affieck-Graves will be in atten­dance. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
and new situa­tions· come up," Collon said . 
The committee has also been questioning why faculty members and graduate students don't take the exam as well. 
Other senators responded posi­tively to the idea that graduate students should be subject to a similar honor code exam, with 
weren't being included in the discussion about health care, and also that the health care they received was very expensive. 
"Where this involves Faculty Senate is in our recruitment [for new faculty members],'' Collon said. "I know some stu­dents who have said they'd love 




Car chase concludes at TC 
Police pursue, discover suspect on Ivy Court 
By KATE ANTONACCI and 
MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editors 
A late-night motor vehicle pursuit by the St. Joseph County Police ended at Turtle Creek apartments around 2 
a.m. Tuesday morning when the suspect exited his vehicle and took off on foot, South Bend Police spokesperson Phil Trent said. 
"It was a vehicle pursuit," Trent said. "When you get in a vehicle pursuit it attracts a crowd of cops." 
About 15 to 20 police officers -some from the county, oth­ers from South Bend -gath­ered at Turtle Creek to search for the suspect. 
"We searched high and low for the guy but we couldn't find him," Trent said. "The guy was in the area on foot, but we couldn't locate him. We knew he was there, so we stayed in the area." 
At 3:30 a.m.. Trent received a call from the Jamison Inn, located just south of Turtle Creek on Ivy Court, where someone was allegedly trying to break into a residence. The description of the suspect "loosely matched" the descrip­tion of the man they had been searching for at Turtle Creek. 
Using a dog, the South Bend police officers were able to find the suspect hiding in a dumpster. He was identified by police as David Pace -the same man St. Joseph County officers had chased into Turtle Creek. 
St. Joseph County Police spokesperson Jaimee Thirion was unavailable for comment Tuesday night. 
South Bend police became involved because Turtle Creek is within its jurisdiction and because the county police force is "thinly staffed" on late weekday nights, Trent said. 
"Because they were in South Bend, we came out and assist­ed," he said. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu and Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 


Wednesday, November 8, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRF SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Terrorist given life for bomb plans 
LONDON -An al-Qaida operative was sen­tenced to life in prison Tuesday for plotting to bomb the New York Stock Exchange and other 
U.S. financial targets and blow up landmark London hotels and train stations with limou­sines packed with gas tanks, napalm and nails. 
The plans were designed to cause maximum carnage, the judge told Dhiren Barot, who stared blankly ahead as he learned he would not be eligible for parole for at least 40 years -one of the harshest sentences ever meted out in a British court. 
Barot, a 34-year-old British convert to Islam who pleaded guilty last month to conspiring to commit mass murder, remains wanted by the United States and Yemen on separate terror­related charges. Under British law, he could be temporarily transferred to the United States to stand trial. 
American chosen to head UNWFP 
UNITED NATIONS -An American diplomat has been selected as the next head of the U.N. World Food Program, which provides assis­tance to millions of hungry people around the world, the United Nations said Tuesday. 
Josette Sheeran, the U.S. undersecretary of state for economics, business and agricultural affairs, defeated a Swiss and a Canadian for the job, as well as another American who was not supported by the Bush administration. 
She will replace American James T. Morris for a five-year term as head of the world's largest humanitarian agency. 
Founded in 1962, WFP provides food aid to an average of 90 million poor people, including 58 million hungry children, in at least 80 of the world's poorest countries. The United States provides more than 40 percent ofthe agency's budget. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
FBI looks into reports of phony calls 
RICHMOND, Va. -The FBI is investigating complaints that phony callers tried to intimi­date Virginia voters amid the hard-fought race between GOP Sen. George Allen and Democratic challenger Jim Webb, officials said Tuesday. 
State Board of Elections Secretary Jean Jensen said her office had forwarded several reports to the FBI of phone calls to voters apparently aimed at misleading them into not voting or directing them to the wrong polling place. 
"If something is going on that worries and alarms voters enough that I'm contacted to look into it, I have a responsibility to do that," Jensen said. 
The FBI is checking the reports, agent Stephen Kodack Jr. said. 
Spears and Federline union finished 
LOS ANGELES -Britney Spears filed for divorce Tuesday from Kevin Federline, officials 
said. .I 
The Los Angeles County Superior Court tiling cites "irreconcilable differences," said court spokeswoman Kathy Roberts. 
Spears, 24, married rapper Kevin Federline, 28, in 2004. They have a 1-year-old son, Sean Preston, and an infant son who was born Sept. 
12. The divorce papers identify the baby as Jayden James Federline. 
A message left with Spears' attorney, Laura Wasser, was not immediately returned. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Electronic voting failures reported 
INDIANAPOLIS, IN -Officials from two Indiana counties say early problems with elec­tronic voting machines had been fixed Tuesday, as residents cast ballots to decide three of the nation's most closely watched congressional races and to see what party controls the Indiana House. 
Indiana's voter ID law received its first test in a general election, but that was not what was causing the problems, clerks in two counties said. 
In Delaware County, an apparent computer error prevented voters from casting ballots in 75 precincts, County Oerk Karen Wenger said. 

Dems try to take over Congress 
Party denounces GOP over Iraq war and scandals; wants to regain majority 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON Democrats challenged Republicans for control of Congress for President Bush's final two years in office Tuesday in elections shadowed by war in Iraq and scandal at home. Thirty-six states elected gov­ernors, from Maine to California. 
All 435 House seats were on the ballot along with 33 Senate races, elections that Democrats sought to make a referendum on the presi­dent's handling of the war, the economy and more. 
Voters also filled state leg­islative seats and decided hundreds of statewide ballot initiatives on issues ranging from proposed bans on gay marriage to increases in the minimum wage. 
Glitches delayed balloting in dozens of Indiana and Ohio precincts, and Illinois officials were swamped with calls from voters complain­ing that poll workers did not know how to operate new electronic equipment. Voting machine malfunctions forced officials in Indiana to delay calling statewide races until 8:40p.m. EST while in Pennsylvania, Lebanon County extended polling hours because of machine problems. 
Overall, the Justice Department said polling matter what your party allil­al open campaign rallies, risk. complaints were down iation or if you don't have a jetting to 15 cities in the Of the 33 Senate races on slightly from 2004 by early party affiliation, do your final 11 days. the ballot, 17 were for seats afternoon. duty, cast your ballot and let With Bush's approval rat­occupied by Democrats and 
Democratic Sen. Hillary your voice be heard." ings low and the Iraq war 15 by Republicans, with one Rodham Clinton of New Congressional Democrats, unpopular, Republicans con­held by an independent. But York, running for re-election locked out of power for most ceded in advance that that masked the real story: with one eye on the 2008 of the past dozen years, Democrats would gain at In both houses, nearly all presidential race, voiced her needed gains of 15 seats in least some seats in Congress the competitive seats were party's campaign mantra, the House and six in the as well as in statehouses in GOP hands and with one qualification. Senate to gain majorities across the country. Democrats were on the 
"I voted for change, except that would let them restrain Democrats campaigned on offensive. for me," she said, casting Bush's conservative agenda a platform of change, begin­Republican Sens. Mike her ballot with husband Bill, through the rest of hie;; term. ning at the top. Rep. Nancy DeWine of Ohio, Rick the former president, in The president campaigned Pelosi of California was in Santorum of Pennsylvania, Chappaqua, N.Y. energetically to prevent it, line to become the nation's Lincoln Chafee of Rhode 
Bush, who had cam­primarily by raising money first female House speaker if Island, Jim Talent of paigned hard for GOP law­for GOP candidates. He her party gained a majority. Missouri and Conrad Burns makers up to the end, brought in $193 million at Speaker Dennis Hastert, of Montana struggled all fall switched to civics cheer­about 90 fundraisers, most R-Ill., was assured of re­against diflicult challenges. leader after voting in Texas. of them party events in election to his 11th term in The Tennessee seat vacated 
With wife Laura at his side Washington or closed candi­Illinois. But his tenure as the by retiring Majority Leader and an ''I voted" sticker on date receptions. Only at the longest-serving Republican Bill Frist was also hotly con­his jacket lapel, he said, "No last did he turn to tradition-speaker in decades was at tested. 
IRAQ 


Saddam calls for reconciliation 
told of a mass killing of Iraqi assassination attempt against him
Associated Press Kurds in the 1987-88 Operation in the town of Dujail in 1982. BAGHDAD -A somber and sub­Anfal crackdown on Kurdish guer­Saddam and two others were dued Saddam Hussein called on rillas. sentenced to death by hanging. Iraqis to "forgive, reconcile and Saddam then calmly spoke about Four co-defendants received lesser shake hands" as he returned to how the Propl-Iet Muhammad and sentences and one was acquitted. court Tuesday for his Kurdish Jesus Christ asked for forgiveness Saddam thundered "Long live the genocide trial two days after being for those who had opposed them. people and death to their enemies" sentenced to death in a separate "I call on all Iraqis, Arabs and when the sentence was imposed. case. Kurds, to forgive, reconcile and On Tuesday, however, Saddam, Iran urged Iraq to disregard shake hands," Saddam said before dressed in a dark suit and white calls for clemency and hang the resuming his seat. shirt, sat quietly along with the six ousted president, saying Saddam's The former president's other defendants in the Anfal case, "very existence is anti-human." demeanor was far different from calmly taking notes as four The startling call from Saddam his combative performance Kurdish witnesses gave their testi­came after he rose during the Sunday, when another court con­mony. afternoon session to question the victed him in the deaths of about Saddam's goal in making the testimony of the witnesses, who 150 Shiite Muslims following an statement was unclear. 

Wednesday, November 8, 2006 
page 6 The ObsertJer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Tax 
continued from page 1 
credit for the student graduat­ing with a master's degree or higher. 
"This proposal would benefit all individuals as well as the government," McCormick said. 
"Education is more valuable now than ever, and providing incentives to graduate at all levels will make people strive toward becoming more educat­ed," Flaherty said. "The gov­ernment wins because through increased levels of education, the nation will see a more skilled, more productive work force, from which an increase in tax receipts collected will fol­low." 
The students said these tax credits are designed to encour­age students to complete their education as well as offset the 

Reaction 
continued from page 1 
people that don't care about poli­tics check on their home state and home precinct." 
Graduate student Vmcent Uoyd said he was happy the Democrats were doing well, as reports looked favorable for the party. 
"People are finally realizing Republican control of all three branches of government is not beneficial for the U.S.," Lloyd said. 
"I hope it leads to [Democratic Presidential] victory in 2008," he said. 
Pasquerilla West (PW) junior and Pennsylvanian Julie Opet said she was "excited" with what she saw. 
"My candidate [Democratic high debt many students have following their education. 

Wittenbach said Deloitte & Touche was probably most impressed at the easy adminis­tration of this proposal. It is similar to the child tax credit that currently allows the par­ents of children under 17 to obtain a $1,000 tax credit. 
The plan proposed by the students can easily be altered and piggybacked onto this law, Wittenbach said. 
"The problems associated with not graduating high school are astronomical ... think of what the government [can] earn in the long run," he said. 
If these incentives increase the high school graduation rate, this plan will initially cost the government up to $1.3 bil­lion, the students said. Ultimately, however, after the graduates become productive, federal and state income taxes. 
McCormick said their time in Washington "was quite the learning experience, as [they] found out how an idea such as [theirs] still has many hoops and hurdles to go through until it could possibly become a law." 
Wittenbach said this "was an invaluable learning experi­ence," and the students learned things "[you] can't teach in the classroom ... to actually talk to Congressmen and see commit­tees in action is a unique expe­rience." 
The next step for Flaherty, Johnson and McCormick is to submit their proposal to the senators and representatives of their states. 
"You never know when it's going to be a seed that gives birth to a new tax law," Wittenbach said. 
tax paying members of society, the government will receive up Contact Jennifer Metz at to an additional $50 billion in jmetz@nd.edu 
Senate challenger Bob Casey] just won," she said. "I support his platform for the most part." 
Nora Holden-Corbett, a Saint Mary's freshman was more reserved in her opinions. 
"I don't want to have too much of an opinion because I didn't vote," Holden-Corbett said. 
But, as a Michigan resident, she said she was still following the results. 
"I was surprised [Democratic] governor Jennifer Granholm was re-elected," she said. 
Christine Walls, a sophomore from PW, followed the Senate race between Republican incum­bent George Allen and Democrat James Webb. Though she voted for Allen, she said, she still respected the challenger. 
Howard freshman Jackie Mullen said she hopes Democrats will take control of the House of Representatives. 
Mullen also said she enjoys watching elections to see if the news media will mistakenly declare victory for one candidate -as famously happened in the 2000 Presidential election. 
"Speculation doesn't always come out as expected," she said. 
Graduate student Olivet Durieu, though watching a TV, was not particularly interested in the results. 
"I just observe it," he said. ''I'm doing mathematics." 
It is hard to fault him for his reaction; Durieu arrived in America Sunday from France. 
"It seems like [Allen] has a good handle on the issues," she Contact Ryan Sydlik at said. rsydlik@nd.edu 
Comcast Cable spokesperson Angie Anores said Comcast in

CSTV 

the South Bend area will not offer the preview this weekend. 
continued from page 1 

"CSTV is only offering that free preview to those [affiliates]
Saturday's game will pay 
that already distribute CSTV,"$14.95, and those who sign up Anores said, and Comcast Cable after the game begins will pay in the South Bend area does not
$19.95, said vice president of 
currently distribute CSTV.

communications for CBS Sports 
Comcast in the South Bend
and spokesper­area is evaluating

son for CSTV CSTV in addition toLeslie Ann Wade. 

..The home team 
two other collegeAlthough "sit­
owns the rights to sports networks,
ting in front of 

ESPNU and the Bigyour television is the game. The 
Ten Channel,more comfort­
visiting team has Anores said. 
able than sitting nothing to say CSTV is normally

in front of your 

seen in about 15
computer," she about it.,, 
million homes, and
said, CSTV has this weekend thehad positive 

John Heisler channel will be
response to past associate athletic available in at least

online broad­

37 million house­
casts of sporting director 
events. 

Notre Dame's senior associate athletic direc­tor John Heisler said there is no record of the last time a Notre Dame game was not televised on campus or locally. 
Notre Dame has no control over broadcast rights of away games, he said. 
"The home team owns the rights to the game," he said. "The visiting team has nothing to say about it." 
Heisler said it was "kind of a coincidence" that CSTV had recently signed a broadcast contract with the Mountain West Conference. If the game had been played last year, he said, a major network would have aired the game. 
CSTV is offering a 'free pre­view' for cable and satellite companies in areas where CSTV is distributed from 7 p.m. Friday until midnight Sunday, however local Comcast cus­tomers will not be able to take advantage of this preview. 
holds, Wade said. 

"It's a tremen­dous disappointment that this game won't be available to every viewer," Wade said. "Nobody at CSTV" would not want to make this game avail­able to the fans, she said. 
Heisler said the free way to enjoy the Notre Dame game is through a radio broadcast. 
Westwood One, the radio net­work that owns the radio broadcast rights to all Notre Dame football games, broad­casts in all 50 states on over 300 affiliates, he said. 
While this is a rare case for Irish fans, he said. it is not atypical for the rest of colle­giate football teams. 
"All of our fans ... have been extremely fortunate," Heisler said. "The fact that all of the games [since 1992] have been available on major networks is semi-remarkable." 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

Results 
continued from page 1 
losing by much to Chocola even in the strongly Republican areas. 
"This time [Donnelly] took advantage of St Joseph and LaPorte County," he said. "He also held his own and didn't get trounced in the Republican coun­ty." 
Colwell said Chocola had a per­fect storm against him, com­prised of public sentiment against Iraq, Republican scan­dals and economic problems. And although they were not national issues, Colwell said, Chocola was also hurt by opposi­tion to Indiana's daylight savings time change and the sale of the toll road by Republican governor Mitch Daniels. 
In addition to Donnelly, several other Notre Dame alumni per­formed well Tuesday. The follow­ing results were those projected at press time. 
Incumbents Democrat Peter Visclosky of Indiana's 1st district and Republican Mark Souder of Indiana's 3rd district both won their re-election bids. 
Notre Dame graduates Michael Ferguson of New Jersey's 7th district, Peter King of New York's 3rd district and Michael Lungren of California's 3rd district were also re-elected. 
Three Saint Mary's graduates were re-elected to their House seats, including Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas' 30th district, Donna Christensen of the Virgin Islands and Madeleine Zeien Bordallo of Guam. 
At press time, the Associated Press had declared a loss for Saint Mary's alumna Anne M. Northup, incumbent representa­tive of Kentucky's 3rd district. 

Colwell discussed the implica­tions of possible election out­comes on the U.S. Congress. At 2 
a.m. Wednesday, the House had been declared for the Democrats, but the control of the Senate remained undecided -though media outlets were tentatively giving the Democrats a very close win. 
He said if the Democrats had won some seats but failed to cap­ture the House of Representatives, it would not have been considered a victory. 
A Democratically-controlled House, Colwell explained, will likely have a major impact on the country by blocking President Bush's legislative agenda. 
"If they don't vote [with the President], he can't get what he wants," Colwell said. 
Colwell said a Democratic vic­tory in the House, but not in the Senate, would result in legislative gridlock. 
If the Democrats win both the House and Senate, it will be a monumental victory for the party, he said. 
"It would be a real message that voters were upset with Bush [and] the way the country was going." Colwell said. 
Colwell said the Iraq War, recent scandals among high­ranking Republican leaders and the economy were all issues that likely hurt Republicans in their efforts to hold onto political power. 
He said though the stock mar­ket was doing well and gas prices were down, many people seemed to feel their own salaries were not keeping pace with infla­tion and that they were losing benefits. 
Colwell also said scandals such as Rep. Mark Foley's inappropri­ate e-mails to teenage male Congressional pages might have disillusioned Republican voters -especially the "Religious Right." 
With at least half-if not both sides -of Congress now in con­trol of the Democrats, current national and international poli­cies could be re-evaluated. 
Colwell said based on prior statements, Democrats would, as a whole, not try to immediately withdraw from Iraq. 
Rather, he said, Democrats might push for different ways to attempt to stabilize the country and would criticize prior actions made there as mistakes. There may also be, he said, a strong push for Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld's resignation. 
Major national races decided by press time include: 
+ 
Pennsylvania Senate: Democrat Robert Casey, Jr. defeats incumbent Republican Rick Santorum 

+ 
Arkansas Governor: Democrat Mike Beebe defeats incumbent Republican Asa Hutchinson 

+ 
Connecticut Senate: "Independent Democrat" incum­bent Joe Lieberman defeats Democrat Ned Lamont, after los­ing the state's Democratic pri­mary. 

+ 
Michigan Governor: Democrat incumbent Jennifer Granholm defeats Republican Richard DeVas. 

+ 
New York Senate: Democrat incumbent Hillary Clinton defeats Republican John Spencer. 

+ 
California Governor: Republican incumbent Arnold Schwarzenegger defeats Democrat Philip Angelides. 

+ 
Pennsylvania Governor: Democrat incumbent Ed Rendell 


defeats Republican -and Pro Football Hall of Farner -Lynn Swann. 
+ Texas, 22nd District: Democrat Nicholas Lampson defeats Republican Shelley Sekula-Gibbs. Republican Tom DeLay represented the district before his resignation. 
+ Maryland Governor: Democrat Martin O'Malley defeats Republican incumbent Robert Ehrlich. 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 



Wednesday, November 8, 2006 

page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


Dow 

11,986.04 -32.50
jones 

Ufx Some: Down: Composite Volume: I ,5 I 5 128 1,749 2,422,777,060 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  -0.26  -0.11  41.93  
.INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.34  -0.07  20.5 I  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -1.88  -0.10  5.23  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.14  -0.04  28.73  
Treasuries  
I 0-YEAR NOTE  +2.59  +0.119  4.715  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.41  +0.020  4.955  
30-YEAR BOND  +2.06  +0.097  4.811  
5-YEAR NOTE  +3.08  +0.140  4.689  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  + 1.26  59.14  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +1.40  629.20  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.95  91.45  
fxcha  Rates  
YEN  118.07000  
EURO  0.7867  
POUND  0.5260  
CANADIAN$  1.1305  

IN BRIEF 
Consumer borrowing takes large fall 
WASHINGTON -Consumer borrowing fell in September by the largest amount since the recession of the early 1990s, weakened by a huge drop in auto loans. 
The Federal Reserve reported Tuesday that borrowing declined at an annual rate of 0.6 percent in September, compared with a 4.6 percent rate of increase in August. Borrowing fell by $1.2 billion in September -· the biggest drop since a $1.78 billion decrease in April 1992. 
It was the first decline since March, when borrowing marked a far milder decrease of 
0.24 percent. 
Borrowing for auto loans slipped at an annu­al rate of 3.2 percent in September, reversed from an increase of 3.5 percent the previous month. September loans in that category dropped by $4.05 billion, the largest fall since the $4.81 billion decline in October 1991. 
The overall economy has lost momentum due . to the housing slump. The struggling auto industry slashed jobs last month, as did compa­nies involved in home building, furniture mak­ing and real estate -casualties of the souring housing market. 
FedEx dumps Airbus for Boeing 777 
PARIS -Boeing scored a victory in the airlin­er wars Tuesday when FedEx became the first customer to cancel an order for Airbus's much delayed A380 jumbo jets and said it will instead will buy Boeing 777s. 
FedEx Corp., the world's largest express transportation company, cited production delays for its decision to retract an order for 10 of the new double-decker A380's. Its FedEx Express unit has ordered 15 Boeing Co. 777 freighters with a Jist price of $3.5 billion (2.8 billion euros) and taken options on an additional15. 
The A380 cancellations leave just 15 super­jumbo freighter orders on the Airbus books ­from United Parcf'l Service Inc. and International Lease Finance Corp. -and a fur­ther 142 orders for the plane's passenger ver­sion. 
FedEx Chairman and CEO Frederick W. Smith said, 'The availability and delivery timing of this aireraft, coupled with its attractive payload range and economics, make this choice the best decision for FedEx." 
Los Angeles Times editor quits 
Baquet departs over cost cutting conflict; O'Shea named as his replacement 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -Los Angeles Times editor Dean Baquet resigned Tuesday following a dispute with the paper's parent, Tribune Co., over cost cuts. The resignation came just weeks after the paper's publisher, Jeff Johnson, was forced to leave for the same reason. 
Baquet will be replaced Monday by James O'Shea, the managing editor of the Chicago Tribune, the Times reported on its Web site. O'Shea will be reunit­ed with David Hiller, who took over for Johnson after serving as publisher at the Tribune. 
Baquet, 50, was forced to resign by Hiller after refusing to cut newsroom jobs, according to the Times. The announcement was to have been made Thursday, but was rushed after the news leaked, the paper said. 
Baquet and Johnson had publicly rebuffed the par­ent company over possible job cuts. When Johnson was replaced, Baquet said he would stay on and try to convince the Tribune to increase its investment in the paper. 
Tribune spokesman Gary Weitman declined to com­ment. 
Baquet confirmed his speak, saying "it's an to propose ways to where advertising is grow­departure in an e-mail to internal matter." improve the paper. ing. his staff minutes after the The news stunned Both Hiller and Baquet "And managers need to news broke on the Wall reporters, many of whom attended the first meeting lead this change, and be Street Journal's Web site have written Tribune to of the group, dubbed the confident and positive, and on a local Web site. support Baquet and were "Spring Street Project," even as we are realistic 
"By now you've seen the preparing to cover just three weeks ago and about the challenging Wall Street Journal story Tuesday's election results. expressed support for the things we will need to do on L.A. Observed that I'll "Dean was someone who effort. to get there," Hiller wrote. be leaving the paper," was held in the utmost On Monday, Hiller laid "We cannot allow our­Baquet wrote. "Believe personal regard by a great out the challenges facing selves to feel victimized by me, I didn't want it to many people in the news­the paper in an e-mail to change or to be in denial come out this way." room," Times reporter the staff. In it, the new of what needs to be done 
Baquet said he would Mark Z. Barabak said publisher said cost reduc­to move us ahead." address his staff later in Tuesday. "It is a very sad tions would be inevitable. Tribune Co. put itself on the afternoon. and difficult and uncertain "The changes transform­the auction block in late 
"And do me an even big­time here." ing the newspaper busi­September, under pressure ger favor. Let's do a hell of Baquet was hired as the ness are fundamental and from institutional share­a job on th.e election Times' managing editor in permanent," Hiller wrote, holders including the tonight," he wrote. 2000 and was named its adding that some Chandler family of Los 
Times spokeswoman editor last year. resources would have to Angeles -former owners Nancy Sullivan refused to A group of about a dozen be transferred from the of the Times -who are allow an Associated Press editors and reporters have print edition of the paper, unhappy about the compa­reporter into the news­been working on a special which is declining in circu­ny's languishing share room to hear Baquet project initiated by Baquet lation, to the Web site, price. 


Wall Street rises ahead of election 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Wall Street extended its November rally Tuesday, carrying the Dow Jones industrials to a new trading high as investors anticipated a business-friendly outcome of the mid­term elections and bought stocks across the market. 
Boeing Co. led the blue chips after winning a $2.3 billion order from FedEx Corp. Strong quarterly reports from both Toyota Motor Corp. and Emerson Electric Co. also lent strength to the market. 
The broad advance came as investors bought optimistically ahead of an election that could strip power from Republicans in the House of Representatives for the first time since 1994. Stocks often rally on elections as Wall Street bets change will lead to an environment more favorable to busi­ness; the theory on the Street is that a split in power in Washington will cre­ate legislative gridlock, slowing down regulatory change. 
"Gridlock is good, Wall Street doesn't like change," said Charles Gabriel, senior Washington analyst for Prudential Securities. "You're not going to have runaway spending increases, you won't have a repeal of the Bush tax cuts, and there's no leg­islative change that will roil industries. The green light is on for <>quity invest­ments because you've got protection against any major changes." 
The Dow rose 51.22, or 0.42 per­cent, to 12,156.77, building on Monday's 119-point gain. The index of 30 large-cap stocks rose to as high as 12,196.32 earlier in Tuesday's session, surpassing its previous trading high of 12,167.02. 
Broader stock indexes also advanced. The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 3.06, or 0.22 percent, to 1,382.84, and the Nasdaq composite index added 9.93, or 0.42 percent, to 2,375.88. 
Bonds gained, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note falling to 4.66 percent from 4. 70 per­cpnt late Monday. The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold prices rose. 
Wednesday, November 8, 2006
page 8 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
SWITZERLAND 
WHO prepares to select new chief 
U.S. controls group, some critics claim 
Associated Press 
GENEVA-The Bush adminis­tration's drug and sexual health policy is a key issue as the World Health Organization chooses its next leader, a post that wields great power in allocating billions of dollars in funds to alleviate misery around the world. 
After two days of closed-door deliberations, WHO is set to announce its new chief Wednesday. 
Contenders for WHO's top job include Dr. Margaret Chan, a bird flu expert and former Hong Kong director of health, Dr. Shigeru Omi of Japan, who heads WHO's Asia office, Mexican Health Minister Dr. Julio Frenk, Spanish Health Minister Elena Salgado Mendez and Dr. Kazem Behbehani, a veteran WHO offi­cial in Kuwait. 
The United States has not declared a preference for any candidate. 
Critics say the United States, WHO's largest donor, plays too large a role behind the scenes. They argue that the Bush admin­istration-is promoting the inter­ests of its pharmaceutical indus­try -at the expense of poor AIDS patients who could be saved by cheap generic medicines -and has adopted an ideological line on issues like abortion. 
President Bush has made more money available for AIDS research than any previous American leader, but that largesse has not extended to pro­grams in reproductive and sexual health. His administration has also challenged ideologically charged WHO programs such as needle exchanges and condom distribution. 
U.S. officials deny they are seeking to force the administra­tion's health policies upon the world. 
"We are not giving WHO money because we want to have influ­ence," said Bill I I all, a spokesman for the U.S. Health and Human Services Department. "We're doing this because we want to improve the human condition around the world." 
Leading public health experts and senior WHO officials told The Ac;;sociated Press that Washington consistently interfered with policy under the U.N. agency's last director-general, Dr. Lee Jong­Wook, who died in May. 
"The U.S. government has a direct role in every significant decision made in Geneva, and even close to a veto role," said Dr. Hichard Horton, editor of the influential medical journal, The Lancet. 
In one prominent case of alleged interference, the United States requested the suppression of a book commissioned by WHO that criticized U.S. free trade agreement.;; for jeopardizing poor countries' access to cheap medi­cines. 
In a letter to WHO's acting director-general, a senior official from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services said the report "spuriously" character­ized U.S. trade policy. WHO has yet to make a decision on the U.S. demand. 
"Standing up to the U.S. is not the easiest thing to do at the WHO," said Sisule Musungu, a Kenyan intellectual property spe­cialist, who co-authored the report with a former WHO staffer. 
The episode sparked concern from two Democratic lawmakers, Sen. Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts and Rep. Henry Waxman of California, who have called for an investigation into how American trade agreements threaten the health of people in developing countries. 
"Attempting to suppress a report because it is critical of U.S. trade policy is unacceptable," Kennedy wrote in a letter to Mike Leavitt, Secretary of Health and Human Services. 
In a widely reported episode in January, WHO's top official in Thailand was stripped of his post after he said in an editorial that a U.S.-Thai free trade agreement would jeopardize Thai access to cheap drugs. leading to the deaths of hundreds of thousands ofAIDS patients. 
EGYPT 
Al-Qaida claims attack attempts 
Thwarted bombings targeted Yemen sites 
Associated Press 
CAIRO-Al-Qaida has pur­portedly claimed responsibil­ity for attempted suicide attacks on two oil installa­tions in Yemen and vowed more strikes against the United States and its allies, according to a statement posted on the Internet. 
"Let the Americans and their allies ... know that these operations are only the first spark and that what is coming is more severe and bitter," the statement said. 
The statement was dated Oct. 13 but was posted this week. Its authenticity could not immediately be verified but it was posted on a Web site frequently used by Islamic militants. 
Suicide bombers tried to strike two oil facilities in Yemen with explosives-
packed cars on Sept. 15, but authorities foiled the attacks and four bombers and a security guard were killed, the Yemeni government has said. 
The attacks happened 35 minutes apart. targeting a Yemeni oil refinery in the northeast province of Mareb and a Canadian-Yemeni oil storage facility at the Dubba Port in Haramut province ­scene of a 2002 attack on the French tanker Limburg. 
The attempts came days after al-Qaida's No. 2, Ayman al-Zawahri, issued a video­taped threat of attacks on the Persian Gulf and on facilities he blamed for stealing Muslim oil. 
"These operations were carried out upon the direc­tive of our emir (leader) Osama bin Laden, may God protect him, in which h~ ordered Muslims to strike at Western economy and drain it, and to halt the robbing of Muslims wealth," the 
Internet statement said. 

The attempted attacks also coincided with an election campaign in which President Ali Abdullah Saleh faced his first real challenge since becoming head of state in 1978. 
Al-Qaida in the statement called on Saleh, who was re­elected to another seven-year term, to repent to God and to "stop believing in democracy, America's religion and to quit allying with the infidels and be in enmity with the believ­ers." 
Yemen is the ancestral homeland of bin Laden and was the scene of the 2000 bombing of the destroyer USS Cole that killed 1 7 American sa.ilors. 
After the Cole bombing and the Sept. 11 attacks, the West began pressuring Yemen to join the war against terror. Saleh launched several crackdowns against extrem­ists, winning praise from the United States. 
Law & .... 
Please join the Law School for its 2006-2007 series ofinterdisciplinary discussions. All programs begin at 4:00p.m. and will be held in Law School room 110. 
Thtirsday~ September 28, 2006 
Human Rights and Human Atrocities in Uganda 
Presenter: Todd David W"hitmore Department of Theology Respondent: Doug Cassel Center for Civil and Human Rights~ The Law School 
Thursday, November 9, 2006 
The Biophysics ofLife and Public Policy Disputes: Inteifacing with the Scientific Contmunity on Bioethical Issues 
Presenter: Phillip Sloan Program of Liberal Studies Respondent: Carter Snead The Law School 
Thursday, February 8, 2007 
The Other Alien Debate: Biology and Policy ofInvasive Species 
Presenter: David Lodge Department of Biological Sciences Respondent: Alejandro Camacho The Law School 
Thursday, March 1, 2007 
Identifying Tax Effects on Charitable Giving 
Presenter: Daniel Hungerman Department of Economics and Econometrics Respondent: Lloyd :Mayer The Law School 
Wednesday, November 8, 2006 

The Observer • NEWS page 9 
KENYA 

Climate changes may damage sites 
Archaeological ruins threatened by floods 
Associated Press 
NAIROBI -From ancient 
ruins in Thailand to a 12th­
century settlement off Africa's 
eastern coast, prized sites 
around the world have with­
stood centuries of wars, loot­
ing and natural disasters. But 
experts say they might not 
survive a more recent men­
ace: a swiftly warming planet. 
"Our world is changing, there is no going back," Tom Downing of the Stockholm Environment Institute said Tuesday at the U.N. climate conference, where he released a report on threats to archaeological sites, coastal areas and other treas­ures. 
Recent floods attributed to climate change have damaged the 600-year-old ruins of Sukhothai in northern Thailand, the report said, while increasing tempera­tures are "bleaching" the Belize barrier reef and a ris­ing sea level is sending dam­aging salt into the wetlands of Donana National Park in Spain. 
Downing also said the ocean could eventually engulf 

ancient settlements such as 
the Old City on Kenya's Lamu 
island, which dates to the 
12th century and has been 
named a UNESCO World 
Heritage site. 
Lamu is vital to Africa's his­
tory; Omani Arab sultans who 
ruled the eastern eoast of the 
continent first settled there 
before moving to Zanzibar. 
They left behind winding 
alleyways and an unspoiled 8­
mile-long sandy beach that 
now attracts tourists to Lamu. 
Thailand's ruins of 
Sukhothai -which means 
"dawn of happiness" ­
include artifacts from ancient 
royal palaces, Buddhist tem­
ples and city gates. Founded 
in 1238, Sukhothai was once 
capital of a Thai kingdom. 
"Some of the developments we are faced with mean the parks of today may not be rel­evant tomorrow," said Achim Steiner, executive director of the United Nations Environment Program. "Adaptation to climate change should and must include nat­ural and culturally important sites." 
He said the response cannot be to simply "lock things up in museums and zoos." Instead, he said, governments world­wide must act to stem global warming. 

INDONESIA 
Men sentenced for deaths 
Rebels receive punishrnents for murder of tzvo American teachers 
Associated Press 
JAKAHTA -A separatist rebel who killed two American teachers at a U.S.-owned gold mine was sentenced to life in prison Tuesday and his accom­plices up to seven years, a judge said. 
The defendants -all indige­nous Papuans -have repeat­edly called their trial a sham and walked out in protest hours before the verdicts were read. 
Prosecutors claimed the men were all members of a small rebel army fighting for a sepa­rate state in the resource-rich province of Papua, in eastern Indonesia. 
They were accused of attack­ing a convoy heading toward a mine owned by Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold Mine Inc. Killed in the 30­minute assault were Hick Spier, 44, of Littleton, Colo., Ted Burgon, 71; of Sunriver, Ore., and an Indonesian teacher. 
Eight other Americans, including a 6-year-old girl, were seriously wounded in the Aug. 31, 2002 attack. 
Antonius Wamang, 31, was sentenced to life in prison, though prosecutors demanded only 20 years. 
"This was premeditated mur­der. It was a gross violation of human rights," said Judge Andriani Nurdin. The judge later sentenced two other men to seven years for taking part in the ambush, and four to 18 months for providing logistical support. 
The defendants have 
remained silent throughout their five-month trial, refusing to make a defense plea and regularly walking out of the courtroom, saying the judges were biased against them. 
Their lawyer, Johnson Panjaitan, claimed Tuesday that he had not been allowed to meet with his clients for more than a month, but court offi­cials could not immediately confirm that. 
"Can you imagine that a client cannot communicate with his lawyer?" he asked. 
Spier's widow, Patsy, who suf­fered two gunshot wounds in the attack, praised the ruling, saying in an e-mail to reporters that she was "firmly convinced Wamang and the other defen­dants are guilty of this horrific and cowardly act of terrorism." 
Rumsfeld asked to aid detainee 
In a letter faxed to Rumsfeld
AP photographer held 
on Monday, Paul E. Steiger,in Iraq since April chairman of the Committee to Protect Journalists, said the Associated Press group was concerned about Hussein's indefinite detention 
NEW YORK -The chairman without charges or a trial. He of a press freedom group has asked Rumsfeld to review the · asked Defense Secretary case ••to ensure that justice is Donald H. Rumsfeld to inter­done." vene personally· in the case of "He should either be charged an Associated Press photojour­with a crime in a court of law nalist detained by the U.S. mili­and given a fair trial or tary for nearly seven months. released at once," Steiger 
Photographer Bilal Hussein wrote. was arrested in Iraq in April A Defense Department under circumstances that spokesman declined to com­remain unclear and unex­ment on the letter. ··we typically plained by the Pentagon. don't discuss private correspon­dence the secretary receives," said Lt. Col. Mark Ballesteros. 




Hussein, an Iraqi whose work was part of a package that won a Pulitzer Prize for The Associated Press last year, was detained in Ramadi on April 12. 
AP executives repeatedly have sought to persuade U.S. officials to provide additional information about allegations against Hussein and to have his case dismissed or transferred to the Iraqi criminal justice sys­tem. Among its efforts, the AP contacted military leaders in Iraq and the Pentagon, and the 
U.S. ambassador to Iraq, Zalmay Khalilzad. 



PARIS, FRANCE 
ACADEMIC YEAR 2007-8 
For Social Science and History majors with a good level of French 
INFORMATION MEETING WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2006 
5:00 PM, 204 DeBartolo 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL PROGRAM IN 

THE OBSERVER 

p 

Wednesday, November 8, 2006 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 


Navigation for life 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Gilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gouumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffm 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 
Mary Kate Malone 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDJT()R: Ken Fowler 
ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY'S EOITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EoiTOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: JeffAlbert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharori Brown 
AD DESIGN MA."lAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 

SYSTEMS ADMINIHRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
{574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574} 631-4 543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's DesK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBsERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'f11< CJb.em,r (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday <XC<pt duri•>g exam and va~tion pcrind5. A ~ubacriptiun to The Ol.Krvtr is $1(}0 f<lr one: ~mic }'('ar: :!i5,. for one stmrster" 
Th< Ob.cm:r is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 Souoh Dining Hall Send <~dd.r¢!5 corrections to: 
Notre D~tme, IN 4G5S6.Q779 Th: CJb.em,r 
Periodic.al posag< paid at Nom! Dvn< PO. So• 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 &>um Dining Hall 
Nom Dame. IN <i6556-0n9 
The Ob.crvc:r is a member ofme Associat<d Pres>. All n:produaicn rish" ue resctvod. 
We have all seen one, want one, or have one. GPS vehicle navigation sys­tems seem to be the hottest new car accessory, and I cannot help but become obsessed with them myself. Who could not possibly desire to have a pleasant, comforting voice telling you when and where to turn, what to do if you've made a mistake, and where to go when help is 
needed? The rear A Word to the view camera is Wzse also a hot com­modity; a camera showing the driver exactly how far he or she can reverse so a nearby object is not destroyed. And most recently, Lexus released a luxury vehicle that parks itself. Thanks to technology, driving is now virtually effortless. No more acci­dents, no more getting lost, and no more wrong turns. 
Unfortunately, technology has yet to create a navigation system for life. This much-needed invention could be the answer to all of life's questions and the solution to everyday problems. There have been times when I could have used a rear view camera so I would not have crossed over the yellow line in an argu­ment with a friend or family member, and times when I needed the "park assist" gadget to take a midterm exam for me. And I am in dire need of a navi­gation system right now to tell me what classes to take and when to take them, as well as to put me on the right path to my dream job with no wrong turns or obnoxious co-workers standing in my 

way. 
Not only would a navigation system be beneficial to my career and academic success, but my social life as well. I could use a pleasant, comforting voice to tell me which boys to date, what group of friends is right for me, and when to make a U-turn when I walk out of my room wearing Uggs and a mini­skirt. Heartoreak could be avoided, friends would last forever, and fashion faux pas would no longer exist. 
Although this type of system could be the vehicle to lead us down the carefree road to happiness, it is a mere figment of my imagination. However, the resources and tools are available in our everyday lives to form our own person­al. non-technological, navigation sys­tems. 
Family can act as our rear view cam­era. They know what we want to do and will do everything in their power to help us get to our final destination safely. Family can set off the warning tones when they feel one of their own is becoming dangerously close· to some bad choices. Their voices of reason are quietly subtle at first, beep...beep... beep, but soon increase to the strong BEEP BEEP BEEP to let you know you could be making a huge life-altering mistake. 
Friends are our real life version of the "park assist" Lexus. While we are in control of our own lives, our friends are the ones that travel right along with us. Giving advice, helping with homework, and enjoying time together make us feel 
as though we are not on this journey alone. 
Faith acts as our GPS navigation sys­tem. When it comes down to it, the direction of our lives is placed in hands other than our own. A strong faith in any religion can provide guidance, security, and comfort as we make deci­sions or face defeat. While mistakes and wrong turns will be made, lessons will be learned and our faith is there to help us recognize our mistakes and place us back on the right track. Whether it is on the Holy Spirit, a Guardian Angel, or whatever higher power you place your trust, it is comforting to know that there is a guiding force looking out for you and leading you in the right direction. 
On the road of life, we are faced with many challenges; challenges that not even a navigation system could over­come. Each wrong turn and every fend­er bender builds character, strengthens relationships and teaches valuable les­sons. The fight with your best friend teaches forgiveness, the break up with your boyfriend or girlfriend gives strength, and the Don your theology paper inspires diligence. These lessons cannot be observed through a rear view camera and cannot be taught by a navi­gation system. Only real life experience, support from loved ones, and faith can lead you confidently down the road of life. 
Katie Palmitier is a sophomore politi­cal science major. She can be contacted at kpalmiti@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Graphics OBSERVER POLL 
Kelly Meehan Jeff Albert 
Amanda Sports 
Michaels · Kyle Cassily Do you think the decision to give Kaitlynn Riely Chris Hine graduate students access to USC Ryan Sydlik Bill Brink 
tickets was the correct one? 
Viewpoint Scene Kara King Sean Sweany Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
1 QuoTE OF THE DAY
ISUbmit aLetter I 
"Insanity in individuals is something rare -but in groups, parties, nations and epochs. it is the rule." 
'to the Editor at I 
Friedrich Nietzsche German philosopher 

www.ndsmcobserver.com ··· 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Plan B response speaks out of turn 
In his response to Charles Rice ("Women, students deserve apology," 
Nov. 2) Dan Hicks argues that it is incumbent upon columnists to respect 
their audience by offering them reasoned arguments rather than emotion­
ally manipulative rhetoric. It is a good principle, especially if you believe 
that a culture of civic argument is the lifeblood of democracy. 
However, just as a good law can become a bad law if it is selectively 
enforced, a good principle can become a bad one if it is applied in a parti­
san way. By appealing to the principle that respect requires rational per­
suasion in a letter devoted to criticizing a columnist with whom he clearly 
has deep disagreements, Mr. Hicks courts suspicion that the principle is · 
not being invoked in good faith. 
Has it really escaped Mr. Hicks' notice that the distinction between 
rational persuasion and emotive manipulation is widely acknowledged in 
our society, even amongst those who have never read "After Virtue'?" 
Emotional manipulation is frequently condemned; the problem is we tend 
to condemn it only when employed by our political opponents. 
· By applying our standards asymmetrically, holding those we believe to 
be wrong to a higher standard than those we believe to be right, we help 
to perpetuate a polarized political climate which inhibits the kind of rea­
soned democratic debate almost all of us claim to want. 
Mr. Hicks concludes his letter by asking "on behalf of the Notre 
Dame/Saint Mary's community" that Professor Rice apologize for failing to 
adhere to the argumentative standards that respect requires. He immedi­
ately goes on to say "I cannot speak for the women of our community," 
which rather makes nonsense of the previous claim. But it was nonsense 
anyway. As a single student who holds no representative office, he cannot 
speak for the men of this community either. If Mr. Hicks feels entitled to an 
apology then he should of course ask for one, but as for the rest of us, men 
and women, he should pay us the respect of allowing us to make up our 
own minds when to be offended. 
Peter Wicks graduate student offcampus Nov. 6 


Claim by "Big Love" proves false 
FTT's website says of its upcoming "Big Love" (opening on Tuesday) that it's based upon the oldest surviving play, "The Suppliant Women" by Aeschylus. Wrong. The discoveries at Oxyrhynchus provided evidence that "The Suppliant Women" is in fact preceded by both "The Persians" and "Seven Against Thebes." 
The idea that "The Suppliant Women" came before the others stems from a fallacy in talking about art. Because "The Suppliant Women" is in some ways Aeschylus' most stylistically-primitive play, some critics assumed this meant he wrote it first. This relies on a warped notion about art -that every innovation happens adventitiously and that use of that innovation will necessarily produce a better work of art. Since we now know that Aeschylus wrote more stylistically-progressive works before "The Suppliant Women," that makes us wonder why he used the form for it that he did. 
The answer is simple: the style best suited his artistic goals for the piece. The erroneous notion that led critics to provide an earlier composition date for "The Suppliant Women" creates a problem because it assumes that artists are constricted by the current conventions of their medium, instead of taking the position that artists can innovate at will. Why did Aeschylus seldom employ three actors'? Was it because the innovation wasn't around when he started writing, or that, when it did emerge, he was just too atavis­tic to jump on the bandwagon? Both of these theories are inadequate. If three actors had served the dramatic and philosophical purposes of Aeschylus' plays, he would have created the innovation rather than Sophocles. The fact that he not only lacked the initiative to create the three­actor rule, but that he seldom employed it afterwards demonstrates that­while it may have been a beneficial tool for playwrights in general-it did not serve his purposes. 
Certainly evolution in aesthetic approach opens up more options for play­wrights to express themselves, but it docs not mean the old form is inferior, and that we are positively evolving. Few would argue that French is an inherently-superior language to Latin simply becaus(~ it evolved from it. The critics who assumed that "The Suppliant Women" was older than Aeschylus' other surviving works just because its structure reflects a method that had been around longer is insulting to Aeschylus; it is akin to those offensive executives who colorize old black-and-white films for tv viewing, assuming that, had they the technology and financial resources, the filmmakers would have necessarily shot in color. The argument goes like this: color film devel­oped after black-and-white; therefore it is better; therefore everyone must want to use it. Ok, then I guess filmmakers from Bogdanovich to Welles, Fellini to Kurosawa, Woody Allen to George Clooney, among others, are just plain stupid. And, apparently, so was Aeschylus. 
Noah Stanzione graduate student offcampus Nov. 1 
The facts on PlanB 
In order to form an opinion about Plan B, I must rely on the reports of 
researchers and drug companies. The evidence I have seen, including both reports 
cited in Dan Hicks's last letter, does not seem to prove that Plan B is not abortifa­
cient ("Plan B", Nov. 6). 
The first source cited by Hicks provides the most promising evidence for his 
assertion that Plan B is not abortifacient. This report discusses an experiment con­
ducted on monkeys. Plan B was given to these monkeys after having sex during an 
ovulatory period. The number of times an embryo implanted in the womb of a mon­
key was roughly the same for those monkeys who were and were not taking Plan B. 
Although this statistical similarity is suggestive, it does not tell us anything about 
the mechanisms that caused the failure of implantation in those monkeys who were 
taking Plan B. Different causes can achieve a similar outcome a similar number of 
times. 
This same source also provides a report about a study done on a group of women, 
who attempted to take Plan B during their preovulatory fertile period. 82 percent of 
the women taking Plan B did not ovulate for up to five days. Clearly these women, if 
sexually active during this tim~. would not have become pregnant-regardless of 
whether pregnancy begins at conception or implantation. Taking Plan B did not 
prevent ovulation for 18 percent of the women in the study. One of the researchers 
says: "We conclude that the effects exerted by Plan B, when it is taken before the 
onset of LH surge [i.e., before ovulation], may fully explain the pregnancies averted 
by emergency contraception. Failure to affect the LH surge, because treatment was 
begun too late in the fertile preovulatory period, explains the 20 percent failure 
rate of this method." The researcher seems to be referring to the roughly 20 per­
cent of women who take Plan B but still become pregnant (in the medical sense of 
embryo implantation). It does not seem to me that these two sets of statistics are 
comparable in the way that the researcher suggests. In the study that these scien­
tists conducted, 20 percent of the women ovulated but it is highly unlikely that 100 
percent of these women would have become pregnant had they been sexually active 
during this period. Yet, a comparison between the rate at which Plan B fails to pre­
vent pregnancy and the ovulation rate of the women in the study relies on making 
this assumption. 
Renee Woodward neither confirms nor denies that Plan B prevents the implanta­tion of an embryo ("A woman's view on Plan B", Nov. 7). She seems to hold that the evidence about whether or not Plan B prevents implantation is inconclusive at best. This may be the most reasonable conclusion, based on currently available research. Yet, if you will allow me to play the arm-chair pharmacologist for a moment, I will offer a reason for holding that Plan B might act as an abortifacient. Let's begin with two uncontroversial facts. First, taking Plan B only prevents ovulation in women who have not started the ovulatory phase of their fertile period. Thus, some women taking Plan B could potentially conceive a child. Second, hormonal contraceptives like Plan B alter the inner lining of the uterus in such a way that the uterine wall becomes a less hospitable environment for the implantation of an embryo. Plan B does not make implantation impossible but it does make it more difficult. It is hard to believe that the occasional failure of embryos to implant never has anything to do with the well-known effects of Plan Bon the uterine wall. To the extent that tak­ing Plan B plays a role in preventing implantation, a person bears a moral respon­sibility for acting in such a way that a human person is harmed, indeed, dies ­assuming, of course, that a human embryo is a human person. 
Andrew Rosato graduate student offcampus Nov. 7 

Indecision 2006: why Chocola and Donnelly 
each lost a vote 
In recent. election years, a common complaint of voters has been that choosing between the Hepublican and Democratic candidates has been a decision between the "lesser of two evils." In 2004, for example, there was a sentiment among moderate lib­erals that although John Kerry wasn't an ideal candidate for the White House, "at least he's not Bush." In 2000, many conservative Americans acknowledged that Bush had some superficial deficiencies, but couldn't fathom the idea of AI Gore seizing control of the free world. I've never subscribed to the "lesser of two evils" theory -until this year. 
More so than any election I can remember, the local Congressional race has consisted almost entirely of mudslinging, with littlp, or no substance behind it. Chris Chocola's message was that Joe Donnelly is a man of low character and professional integrity. Donnelly's message was the Chocola has, in his current position, acted in ways that don't serve the best interests of Hoosier families. And you know what'? Both parties made their arguments very convincingly. As a result, yesterday, for the first time since I reached legal age, I exercised my right to not vote in a Congressional election. The can­didate that wins may well go on to accomplish some great things in vVashington, but he won't do so on the basis of any claims he made on the campaign trail. The~efore, he also won't be getting to Washington with the help of my vote. 
Aaron Zielinski semor off campus Nov. 7 
THE OBSERVER 
Wednesday, November 8, 2006 
page 12 


'BORAT' A GLORIOUS, IRREVERENT ROMP 
By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Editor 

Every so often a movie will come around that is so offensively hilarious that there is no middle ground. The audience will either love it or hate it. In 1994, "Clerks" was that movie. In 1999, there was "South Park: Bigger, Longer, and Uncut." And now there is "Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan." 
Easily one of the most intelligent come­dies of the last couple of years, "Borat," starring Sacha Baron Cohen, has some­thing to offend -and amuse -basically everyone. 
Borat was initially created as one of the three characters that Sacha Baron Cohen portrays on HBO's "Da Ali G Show." Most recently, Cohen played the supporting role of Jean Girard in Will Ferrell's "Talladega Nights" and··stole almost every scene he was in. 
In this film directed by Larry Charles, shipped off on an anthropological mission of sorts to America. Although his docu­mentary was supposed to film solely in New York, he decides to embark on a cross-country road trip. His trip is inspired not only by his desire to learn more about Americans and their idiosyn­crasies, but also by his deep infatuation for former Baywatch sex goddess Pamela Anderson. 
Unfolding as a series of Less than an hour and tune of the American encounters with archetyp­a halfin length, "Borat, national anthem. al Americans, the movie Less than an hour and a
is a good-natured
aims at both individuals half in length, "Borat" is a and social institutions, mockumentary, with good-natured mockumen­such as country rodeos, very specifically-chosen tary, with very specifically­gospel meetings and TV chosen subjects. Half of
subjects.
studios. In Borat's adventures are
essence, "Borat" is nothing more than a loosely-connected series of sketch­es, some funnier than others, but it con­tains enough verbal and visual gags to sustain interest for its brief duration. 
Constantly open to new experiences, Borat is frequently shocked at some of the American truths he unearths in his travels 
Cohen plays a reporter from arm..n and troubles, from the Kazakhstan named Borat uuna• 1 luxury of indoor sanita-Sagdiyev. Borat -perpetually ~~ ....IL .IL . tion to the rudeness of upbeat and heavily mustached ......... New Yorkers faced by a 
-leaves his home in Kazakhstan in order to travel to the US and document the norms of America in order to help improve his homeland. 
The movie begins in Borat's village in Kazakhstan, but after a brief and hilari­ous introduction to his country, Borat is 
'BoRAT' Nor So NICE 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Scene Editor 

At its best, humor is offensive, off-put­ting and even a little subversive. "Borat: Culture Learnings of America For Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan" manages to be all of the above, but man­ages to forget that humor is actually sup­posed to be funny. Instead, "Borat" is a plodding mishmash of good ideas, bad ideas and everything in between, stretched out over a running time that feels longer than its 84 minutes. 
The biggest problem with "Borat" is that it's not very funny, but it thinks it is. This is a film that had everything going for it, but it fails to capitalize on its prem­ise, and, while there are several clever moments, too much of the film consists of a lot of poo and sex jokes, 11JR.1n which haven't gotten any~~. fresher or funnier since ... well, ever. The subplot concerning Pamela Anderson is merely distracting, and "Borat'' seems to have trouble extending into feature length. As a section of "Da Ali G Show," Borat's shtick worked, mostly because it was skit-oriented and came in a brief, punchy little segment. 
Accordingly, the best parts of the fea­ture film are those that feel like parts of a foreigner who just wants to be nice to them. ' 
The movie initially asks the audience to laugh at the preposterous naivete of a primitive foreigner from a backward country, but the movie is quick to balance that with poignant barbs at America's 
skit, without any emphasis on plot. Borat is effortlessly played by British comedian Sacha Baron Cohen, and his performance is easily the best part of the picture. He imbues the Kazakhstani reporter with an effervescent innocence, that is at times both charming and ingratiating -these qualities make Borat's constant un-PC behavior more bearable, but the film has an annoyingly winking atti­
satirize. As with "Fight Club," it's easy to think that people just 
won't get the irony. Those who 
imitate Borat and his bubbly 
racism and sexism are clearly 
..........-~ 

missing the joke, and while it's easy for critics (and Cohen) to contend that audiences aren't dumb enough to miss the obvious, remind them about all the fight clubs that sprung up back in 1999. 
Audiences laughed throughout "Borat," but too much of it was that kind of uncomfortable laughter, like watching a drunk fratboy in a room full of sober peo­
iL 
endless follies and shortcomings. One of the satire's strongest sequences is when Borat gives a rabble-rousing address to a rodeo, claiming he supports Bush's "war of terror" and expresses his longings for the day when Bush will "drink the blood of every man, woman and child in Iraq," but then he turns the crowds against him as he sings a version of the Kazakhstan national anthem to the 
"safe," with fairly pre­dictable outcomes and circumstances. The other half lead to the most uproarious moments, which truly have to be seen to be appreciated -and the bigger the crowd the better. Although the movie and the material is a little uneven in its pace, it stiJI contains enough caustic interactions and sharp observations to keep audiences entertained throughout the duration of the filin. 
Rude, raunchy and ridiculously funny, "Borat" is a film that can easily be enjoyed by anyone who is willing to laugh at.them­selves -no matter how painful seeing the truth can be. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
tude that nullifies some of Borat is effortlessly "Borat," but his effort isn't Cohen's best efforts. enough to save the movie.
played by British 
Here's the strangest thing Critical consensus has been about "Borat" -though it comedian Sacha very high on the film, purports to satirize juvenile Baron Cohen, and his which currently carries a humor, that same parodic 95 on the web site rottcn­
performance is easily 
nature means that it tomatoes.com. depicts juvenile humor. and the best part ofthe In a day and age in which becomes what it tries to picture. we are supposed to be ple -we chuckle, not because it's funny, but because he thinks he's funny. It's unfortunate, because the film had such promise, yet it manages to stumble through its running time, even becoming boring at times, which is the ultimate crime in a comedy. 
Sacha Baron Cohen is undeniably a tal­ented and interesting person, and he sin­gle-handedly carries 
f 
enlightened, a film like "Borat," which takes broad jabs at issues of race, religion and culture. seems anti­quated and obvious. 
While audiences fawn over the raunchy humor of "Borat," the real joke is that the film has been better received critically than "The Departed" -once again, Martin Scorsese gets outdone, but who would have thought it would be by a man who wrestles naked in the climax of his film? 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

Wednesday, November 8, 2006 page 13 


process, he's added a third mem­The millions generated besting family-friendly fare ber to his troika of eccentric, by Borat's feature­"Santa Clause 3" and "Flushed inappropriate, but undeniably Away" by well over $6 million. 
length foray reveals 
riotous alter egos-Ali G, Briino Fox should have known bet­and Borat himself. All three per­one truth -Cohen can ter. After all, the Emmy-nomi­sonalities are fictional journalists no longer be ignored. nated Cohen has been using 
.'. ~­
.....:--. 
0 
.. -.?:-· 

: .--. -~-.,.., . . : .-' ._ ~ -·._ ·. . . '-~ 
. :,.,,__ ·­
....-<........ !-.'

.' ' ·-. . ·-:-·,:-:-... .. -.\~~~--.... :-"1{~:::--·.·'<>~­
: -:' -,' /:'-. ·_-F-·-~ .., <

. ·.-,: _:.__·-~-··_---~-..~ft~:i_ --~·--:;_:::·: ..---.~~:..; .·. -_._· .. ~·:-.<: 
-<~~_.,,.,... ~~'-'­

.
.. . ,. 
I 
I 
l· 
i 
I 
I \ 
b~ 
I 

. '_____....,......,_..~.....-. ....-·--~-­
I 
I 
I 
j 
~ 
I I 
,I
,I I I I I 
THE MANY GUISES OF SACHA BARON COHEN 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Scene Writer 
Borat Sagdiyev's humor may be any number of things, but unintentional it is not. Unapologetic, uncouth and even unkind are more apt descriptions. But, as his originator freely admits, the infamous Kazakh journalist 
:·:.f._;.i<t 

first reared his gleefully crude, mustachioed j' head thanks more to mere chance than sheer 
i> 

inventive genius. "Borat is based actually on a guy I met in
i 

southern Russia. I can't remember his name. He was a doctor," revealed Sacha Baron Cohen in a press junket touting Borat's feature film debut, "Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan." 
"The moment I met him I was totally crying. He was a hysterically funny guy. Albeit, totally unintentionally." 
Still, Cohen, 35, deserves more than a little 
credit for transforming the good doctor's 
quirks into his own. In the 
born out of "Da Ali G Show," Cohen's satirical cult-hit series, with a single goal in mind -seek and annoy . 
Unscripted and unrestrained, "Da Ali G Show" was Cohen's first taste of success. Originally created for the United Kingdom's Channel 4, the show gained global recognition with its second and third seasons, both broad­cast on HBO. Cohen used his relative obscurity to fully inhabit his three creations. 
Whether he was assuming the guise of Briino, a limp-wristed, flamboyant fashion reporter, the obnoxious, misogynistic Borat or hip-hop poser Ali G -the self-proclaimed "voice of da youth" -Cohen turned journalis­tic integrity on its head. In each show, he badg­ered his interviewees while hiding behind a mockin6 ignorance. Long before Ashton Kutcher was adding Punk'd to the national lex­icon, Cohen was sho\\ing him how it's done ­with more intelligence and, consequently, far more significance. 
Born in southern England, Cohen was the second of three sons and attended the presti­gious University of Cambridge, where he stud­ied history. Crude humor may be his forte, but Cohen was on the path towards a PhD before taking a detour into comedy. Cohen's success across the pond prompted an invitation to deliver the 2004 Class Day address at Harvard University. Of course, he appeared in character as Ali G, but Harvard students surely had no complaints about their unorthodox guest. 
like all fine actors, Cohen is as methodical as he is hysterical. He's known for arriving on talk shows and in public as his oddball characters, not unlike more reputed thespians like Christian Bale. Bale maintained his American accent for "Batman Begins" press tours, and Cohen has done the same for every "Borat" appearance -reveling in his broken, faux­Kazakh English. 
While each of his creations is a distinct mani­festation of Cohen's comedic brilliance, it's Borat who's finally bringing the British comedi­an the mainstream acclaim he so richly deserves. His feature film opened at No. 1 at the box office this past weekend, despite the misguided apprehension of movie moguls at Twentieth Century Fox. 
Worried that the film's offensive humor would dissuade audiences, the studio slashed its debut from 2,000 theaters nationwide to just 837. Regardless, the film delivered an esti­
mated haul of $26,455,463 ­

crude but socially aware humor to win the hearts of fans for years. Although the man is a devout Jew, Cohen's Borat is as anti-Semitic as any character in fic­tion. These seeming contradictions are what separate Cohen from his peers. He's never shied away from revealing the truth-that racism is still an issue, as is the ugliness of big­otry -through uproariously tactless skits. 
The millions generated by Borat's feature­length foray reveals one indisputable fact ­Cohen can no longer be ignored. He has arrived in spectacular fashion, with as much flourish as any of his screen personas. Hollywood's finest have certainly taken notice. with Brad Pitt among those slavering at the chance to appear alongside one of the comic's zany creations. 
Cohen's journey since his fateful meeting with that Russian doctor has been a strange, circuitous one. And while Borat's birth may have been one of happenstance, there's noth­ing coincidental about Cohen's rising star sta­tus. After all, there are plenty of words -some not so niee, in Borat's words -to describe both the man and his counterparts. 
Uncharismatic is not one of them. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu . 
~­


page 14 Wednesday, November 8, 2006 
DVD REVIEW 












Masterful'Brazil' DVD accentuates classic 


By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 
Terry Gilliam's 1985 film "Brazil" was one of the most misunderstood pictures of its time, but its reputation has grown over the ensuing decades, and it is now regard­ed as one of the finest pictures of the 1980s. Uke Ridley Scott's "Blade Runner," it depicts a dystopian future that creepily resembles modern times, but it replaces that film's noirish tendencies with an absurdist vision of a bureaucratic dictator­ship. 
The Criterion version of "Brazil" is Gilliam's original director's cut, which runs 142 minutes and combines footage from both the American and the European releases. Gilliam is perhaps best known as a member of the comedy troupe Monty Python (he co­a complex, insular, often difficult picture about a bleak totalitarian future (though the film takes place "sometime in the 20th century"), which was a shocking shift from the absurdist comedy Gilliam imbued in the Monty Python films. Despite frequent flights of fancy, "Brazil" is mostly a down­beat f:tlm, with pointed satire and jagged political and social commentary -it's hard to explain how a film can be whimsi­cal and cynical at once, but "Brazil" com­bines the mentality of Orwell with the cre­ativity of "Star Wars" -era Lucas. It's also a maddening, oft-brilliant picture that stut­ters at times over the course of its two and a half hours, though the "Love Conquers All" cut demonstrates that shortening the film would only have a detrimental effect. 
What makes "Brazil" so powerful is not only Gilliam's creative vision, as stunning 
and encompassing as that 
is, but the talent with 

brainchild. 
Gilliam had control over the film and arranged a 142-minute cut, which was badly received by Universal executives, who then cut nearly an hour out of the film, to a running time of 94 minutes. This cut, commonly referred to as the "Love Conquers All" version, is avail­able on the third disc of the box set. Radically different from Gilliam's director's cut, it demonstrates just how much effect editing can have on a picture. 
Ultimately, however, it's easy to see why Universal was so apprehensive. "Brazil" is 
Dead," "Shakespeare in 

Love"}, and the film stars Jonathan Pryce ("Tomorrow Never Dies," "Pirates of the Caribbean"} and promi­nently features Robert DeNiro. The cre­ative production design is one of the movie's most appealing elements, though Gilliam admits on the DVD that some con­sidered it a sensation overload. 
"Brazil" was originally released by Criterion back in 1999 (spine No. 51), but has recently been re-released. The new release is, in many ways, the same as the old, with one major difference. The origi­nal transfer was not anamorphic (meaning it did not "stretch" properly to f:tll widescreen televisions}, which means a lot more in 2006 than it did in 1999. 
According to Criterion, the new release has an "all­new, restored high-defini­tion transfer, supervised and approved by director Terry Gilliam, with a 
remastered Dolby stereo surround soundtrack." In other words, "Brazil" looks and sounds great, which is really a necessity in a film that is so visual­ly and aurally loaded. 
The DVD is available in two versions, a single-disc version, and a three-disc "Ultimate Special Edition Box." Though the three-disc version may be slight overkill for casual fans of the film, ·it's a must for both fans of Gilliam and film enthusiasts. The most substantial special feature is the 56 minute documentary "The Battle of Brazil: A Video History," which explores the controversy that sur­rounded the film. 
Both versions of "Brazil" contain a fea­ture-length audio commentary by Gilliam, which is interesting and insightful -it's obvious that the director takes great pride in the film. 
The second disc also contains a thirty minute on-set documentary called "What is Brazil?" as well as storyboards, draw­ings, stills, behind-the-scenes footage, video interviews and the original trailer. The 94-minute "Love Conquers All" cut contains a feature-length audio essay by journalist David Morgan, who retreads a 

Brazil 
Ultimate Special Edition Box 
Criterion Collection 

lot of ground from "The Battle of Brazil" in explaining the controversy over the film and its numerous cuts. 
The packaging, an often overlooked aspect of a DVD's presentation, is also excellent. The box set comes in a slipcase that depicts clouds and the neon logo for the film. Inside the case are three individ­ual keepcases with varying angles of the same photograph. There is also a small booklet that contains an essay by Jack Mathews, movie critic and author of "Battle of Brazil." 
"Brazil" is an essential piece of cinema. Named the Los Angeles Critics Circle Film of the Year in 1985, it has since become regarded as a classic, with Time magazine recently declaring it one of the 100 great­est films of all time. An imaginative and creative examination of politics and socie­ty, it remains a high-water mark for its director, and 1980s cinema. While the sin­gle-disc edition may be enough for most, the lavish box set is, for once, an "Ultimate Special Edition" that lives up to its name. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

directed both "Monty "Brazil .. is a complex, which the director was Python and the Holy Grail" surrounded. The script
insular, often difficult
and "Monty Python's The was co-written by Tom
picture about a bleak
Meaning of Life"}, though Stoppard ("Rosencrantz "Brazil" is very much his totalitarian future. and Guildenstern Are 



Wednesday, November 8, 2006 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
NOVELIST, ESSAYIST, SCHOLAR, AND DIPLOMAT cA R L 0 s FuE N T E sWITH THE 
SAN ANTONIO VOCAL ARTS ENSEMBLE 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 9 AT 7:30 PM LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL 
TICKETS: $24, $20 FACULTY/STAFF/SENIORS. AND $15 ALL STUDENTS 

VIENNA~GHdlR BOYS  
SUNDAY, NOV,EMBER 26 AT 3:00PM  
l  E I G H T 0  N . LC 0  N C E•..fl T  H A l  L  
TICKETS: $36, $30 fACUlTYl3TAFfr~ENlOR~i\JND S15 ALL STUDENTS ·:w.tJ%~:;.:::·:?>·:-: ;:::wnf·· · · ::.·?$N:~t~li~~w:~  
I  
SUNDAY, NOVEMBE  
LEIGHTON  CONC  
TICKETS: $48, $40 FACULTY/STAFF/  

BROWNING 
CINEMA 
http://www.ncl.edu/-mslgner/2005_sprlngl 
nd_holocaust_pro)ect.shtml 
Fateless (2005) Holocaust Film Series: Through the Eyes of Children Directed by Lajos Koltai Hungarian, English, and German language with English subtitles Thu, Nov 9 at 7:00pm 
Everything is Illuminated (2005) Holocaust Film Series: Through the Eyes of Children Directed by Liev Schreiber Ukrainian, Russian, and English language with English subtitles Thu, Nov 9 at 10:00 pm 
Come and See (1985) Holocaust Film Series: Through the Eyes of Children Directed by Elem Klimov Russian and Belarusian language with English subtitles Fri, Nov 10 at 7 :00 pm 
Au Revoir Les E11fants (1987) Holocaust Film Series: Through the Eyes of Children Directed by Louis Malle French, German, and English language with English subtitles Fri, Nov 1 0 at 10:00 pm Sat, Nov 11 at 3:00 pm 
Into the Arms of Strangers (2000) Holocaust Film Series: Through the Eyes of Children Directed by Mark Jonathan Harris German and English language with English subtitles Sat, Nov 11 at 7:00 pm 
Europa, Europa (1990) Holocaust Film Series: Through the Eyes of Children Directed by Agnieszka Holland German, Russian, Polish, and Hebrew language with English subtitles Sat, Nov 11 at 10:00 pm 
I Was Born, But... (1932) Directed by Yasujiro Ozu Silent film with live piano accompaniment by Dave Drazin. Sun, Nov 1 2 at 4:00 pm 
FILM LINE: 631-FILM 
Wednesday, November 8, 2006 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 

Stojakovic leads Hornets charge; Hawks win third straight 
help, but they missed and we SuperSonics on Tuesday night. 
missed." "We don't like to be in that Yeah, but too often. situation, but we know if we James had a chance to put stick together, we can pull 
the Cavaliers, who led by seven games out," Posey said. with 4:49 left, ahead by three Dwyane Wade scored 31 points with 6.1 seconds left in points despite going 8-of-23 for regulation. However, he split a the defending NBA champions, pair, and with another chance, who improved to 2-2. Lue drove the right side and Reserve Dorell Wright had dropped a high-arching runner nine points, five rebounds and over James at the horn to tie it a career-high six assists. at 90-all. Rashard Lewis scored 2 3 
"You always see LeBron on points and Ray Allen added 18 SportsCenter, and this was my for Seattle. Danny Fortson chance to steal the show from scored 10 points and fellow sub him," Lue said. Earl Watson had eight points 
His 3-pointer with 4:03 left in and six assists. the extra session gave the "When Shaq's out, we know Hawks a 95-92 lead, and after those other guys are going to Cleveland's Donyell Marshall be more focused and very missed two free throws, determined," Watson said. Johnson converted a three­"Hey, those guys won a champi­point play to make it 98-92. onship, too." 
After James split a pair of foul shots, Johnson, who added Indiana 97, Philadelphia 86 eight rebounds, eight assists Jermaine O'Neal isn't ready to and six turnovers in 46 min­call the Indiana Pacers a con­utes, drained a long 3-pointer tender just yet. -the Hawks were 9-of-12 on O'Neal had 16 points and 11 3s -to send 20,562 fans who rebounds, and the Pacers hand­came out for a LeBron James ed the Philadelphia 76ers their bobblehead promotion home frrst loss of the season with a vic­with only their souvenirs. tory Tuesday night. 
Even after double-digit victo­Miami 90, Seattle 87 ries in their last two games,Posey's last second points. Tyson Chandler had 10 into a new season, the Hawks Facing a late deficit without 0 'Neal knows the Pacers still points and 14 rebounds as the are soaring like they once did Shaquille O'Neal forced the have plenty of work in front of
bucket lifts Heat over 

Hornets dominated the offen­when Dominique Wilkins ruled Miami Heat to show some them. sive glass, piling up 21 the air. championship-like mettle. "We can't win any champi­
Supersonics 90-87 

rebounds of their own missed Joe Johnson scored 25 points James Posey's go-ahead 3-onships in the first four games," Associated Press shots. -six on consecutive posses­pointer with 19 seconds said O'Neal, who added four The Hornets' 4-0 start is their sions in overtime -and the remaining lifted the Heat to a blocks. "It's one game at a time, 
OKLAHOMA CITY -Chris best since being created as an surprising Hawks won their victory over the Seattle but so far, so good." Paul had 22 points and 11 expansion franchise before the third straight on Tuesday night assists, Peja Stojakovic convert­1988-89 season. Previously, over the Cleveland Cavaliers, ed a go-ahead three-point play, their most wins to start a sea­who again couldn't make their and the New Orleans Hornets son was three in 2003-04. free throws. beat the Golden State Warriors After Philadelphia's loss Tyronn Lue added 19 points, 97-93 Tuesday night for their Tuesday night, the Hornets and 11 assists and made a buzzer­best start in franchise history. Utah Jazz -both 4-0 -are beating layup over LeBron 
After the Warriors had rallied the NBA's only remaining unde­James to force OT for the from a 15-point deficit to go up feated teams. Hawks. by three, Stojakovic made a Last season, Stojakovic was Atlanta, which has had seven pair of free throws and then on the short end of the Hornets' consecutive losing seasons and scored while being fouled on a first regular-season game in decades of futility, improved to pass from Paul to put the their temporary home. His 3-1, two seasons after the Hornets up 92-90 with 1:35 Sacramento Kings lost 93-67 at Hawks won just 13 games and left. the Ford Center last November. one season after they started 2­
Former Hornets first-round This time, the sellout crowd 16, didn't get win No. 3 until draft pick Baron Davis had two of 19,164 was behind him the Dec. 10 and finished 26-56. shots to give the Warriors the whole way. "This is a big confidence lead, but both of his 3-pointers He had three baskets -a boost for us," Lue said. "We've from the left wing were off tar­jumper and two 3-pointers -found a way to win these get. all set up by Paul as New games down the stretch." 
Desmond Mason then stole Orleans opened a 20-11 lead Zaza Pachulia added 19 Monta Ellis' lob pass, and Paul with an early 16-4 run. The points and Josh Smith 15 for made one of two free throws to Hornets led 52-43 at halftime the Hawks, who had 20 give the Hornets (4-0) a three­on the strength of 14 offensive turnovers -but none in the point lead with 11.3 seconds rebounds that led to 19 second­final 10:48. remaining. Anthony Roberson's chance points. James scored 34 points -24 3-pointer on Golden State's New Orleans then scored the after halftime -and Drew ensuing possession was an air­first six points after halftime to Gooden 21 for the Cavs, the ball, and David West hit two take its largest lead at 58-43, NBA's worst free-throw shoot­free throws to stretch New but Golden State came back ers who went 23-of-37 from the Orleans' edge to five. with a 1 7-4 run to pull within line and missed several crucial 
Davis then connected on a 3-two. attempts down the stretch. pointer, and Stojakovic sealed James was 5-of-11 on foul the victory with two more foul Atlanta 104, Cleveland 95 shots and the Cavs went 8-of­shots. The Atlanta Hawks, for years 18 on freebies in the fourth 
Stojakovic scored 18 points, the NBA's ugliest ducklings, are quarter and overtime. AP ( West had 16 points and 11 off to a flying start. "It's not just the free throws," rebounds, and Mason added 12 OK, it's early. But four games James said. "It can always 


Heat forward James Posey gestures after scoring the go-ahead basket In Miami's 90-87 victory over Seattle Tuesday. 

The Observer accepts classif..eds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifleds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
3 bedroom ranch. 1-1/2 bath. HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2·6 2-6 BDRM HOMES 07-08 OR WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Totally remodeled. New kitchen and Bedrooms NOW. TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY not go it alone. If you or someone heating/air. $99,900. 1820 Oak www.N Dstudentrentals.com 574-329-0308 WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726. you love needs confidential support 
FoR SALE 

Park near Edison/Ironwood. Call or assistance, please call Sr. Sue 
Tony 574-303·0311 . Rooms for rent for football week-FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK-Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more 3-4 bdrm home, 1.5 BA, 2 mi.N of ends. Close to campus. Call 574-TICKETS ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232-information, see our bi-weekly ad in NO. 2-stall garage. 4 lots. 243-0658. 2378. The Observer. $101,000. 52420 Forestbrook. FoR RENT Call Terry 574-289-5630 or Ron House Available for 07-08 Year. WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251-If anyone has found Garrett's man­277-4122. Close to Campus. Just Renovated 1570 PERSONAL hood, please return to 406 
BLUE &GOLD HOMES, off-cam-to Brand New Condition. Open to Siegfried. Be careful on approach. it 3 Persian carpets priced to sell. pus homes & weekend rentals. groups of 9-11 Students. Contact FOR SALE: NO TICKETS. 232-Richard Dawson = best game show may fnghten easily. Identity yourself 574-291-8514. Bluegoldrentals.com MacSwain@ gmail.com 0964 host of all-time, not Bob Barker as Betsy, and it will come running. 




OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Wednesday, November 8, 2006 
COA1PILED FRONt THE OBSERVER'S \.YJRE SERVICES page 17 
NHL Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team  record  pts.  GF  
New Jersey  S..5·1  17  35  
PiHsburgh  7-4·1  15  41  
NY Rangers  7-6·1  15  50  
NY Islanders  6-6·2  14  38  
Philadelphia  3-10·1  7  29  

Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record pts. GF 
Buffalo 12-1-1 25 63 Toronto 9-5-3 21 58 Montreal 8"'3-3 19 46 OHawa 5,.7.1 11 40 Boston 4-6-2 1 0 32 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pts. GF 
Atlanta 11-3-3 25 62 Carolina 7-6·3 17 so Washington 6-4-4 16 47 Tampa Bay 7-7-1 15 50 Florida 6-1-2 14 41 
Western Conference, Central Division 
team record pts. GF 
Nashville 9-3-1 19 47 Oetroil 9-4-1 19 38 St.louis 4-6-3 11 34 Columbus 4-7-1 9 28 Chicago 4·9·0 8 35 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pts. GF Minnesota 10-3·0 20 41 Vancouver 8·7-1 17 40 Colorado 7·5·2 16 46 Edmonton 7·6·1 15 40 Calgary 4·7~2 14 34 
Western Conference, Pacific Pivision 
team r~(;:()rd ... pts. GF Anaheim 11-0-4 26 53 Dallas 11·3·0 22 43 San Jose 10·5·0 20 46 Los Angeles 4-g..3 11 36 Phoenix 4-10-0 8 36 
ESPN/USA Today Preseason NCAA Basketball Top 25 
team points 2005·06 

1 Florida 772 1 2 North Carolina 728 14 3 Kansas 714 22 4 Ohio State 595 13 5 PiUsburgh 583 18 5 UCLA 583 2 1 LSU 556 3 8 Georgetown 538 16 9 Wisconsin 530 NR 10 Arizona 478 NR 11 Duke 477 7 12 Alabama 420 NR 13 TexasA&M 335 NR 
14 Memphis 328 6 
15 Boston College 284 11 
16 Washington 240 12 
17 MarqueHe 203 NR 
18 Connecticut 200 4 
19 Texas 112 9 
20 Syracuse 138 NR 
21 Georgia Tecb 137 NR 
22 Kentucky 119 NR 
23 Creighton 113 NR 
23 Tennessee 106 20 
25 Nevada 101 NR 
around the dial 
TODAY 
NBA Suns at Spurs 8 p.m., ESPN 
Pistons at Kings 
10:30 p.m., ESPN 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Associated Press -University of Miami defensive lineman Bryan Pata was shot and killed Tuesday night, shortly after leaving the practice field, school officials said. The shooting occurred at the apartment complex where Pata lived, about 4 miles from campus. His death was ruled a homi­cide, Miami-Dade police spokesman Roy Rutland said. "Right now, we're just gathering ourselves and just trying to pull ourselves together," Miami athletic director Paul Dee said. Hutland said police were called at 7:30 p.m. to the 
scene and found Pata's body in the parking lot. The 22-year-old senior who grew up in Miami was pronounced dead at the scene. 
The circumstances around Pata's death were not immediately clear, and Miami-Dade police did not say who made the 911 call after the shooting. 
The 6-foot-4, 280-pound lineman was in his fourth year with the Hurricanes. He appeared in 41 games, making 23 starts, and was expected to be selected in next spring's NFL draft. 
Word spread quickly around campus, and grief counselors were quickly 
summoned to work with Pata's teammates. 
Annette Ponnock. Miami's student body pres­ident, said Pata -a fierce player on the field and a somewhat soft-spoken one off it -was well known and popular on campus. 
"Everyone is just more surprised than anything else," Ponnock said. "He's such a personality on cam­pus. It was just really, really shocking to have such a loss.... He was a big guy so it was kind of hard to miss him. He just had a presence about 
h. .. 
Ill. 
The Hurricanes used Pata primarily at defensive tackle this season, and he had 13 tackles and two sacks. 

Miami is supposed to play at No. 23 Maryland Saturday. There has not been any announcement about whether that game will happen as scheduled. 
Atlantic Coast Conference commissioner John Swofford was aware of the shooting and was working with Miami offi­cials to gather informa­tion, conference spokes­woman Amy Yakola said. 
It was at least the fourth time that tragedy involving a player has struck the Hurricanes in recent years. 
IN BRIEF 

Sanders convinces coaches of readiness and comes back strong 
INDIANAPOLIS -Bob Sanders watched his Indianapolis Colts team­mates get run over for five weeks. The Pro Bowl safety couldn't bear seeing it again. 
After convincing team doctors and coach Tony Dungy he could play with a solid pregame workout, Sanders helped Indianapolis produce one of its best defensive performances of the season in one of its most critical games. 
"I was pretty sure he wasn't going to play, and he was pretty adamant that he could," coach Tony Dungy said Monday. "So I let him run with the trainers before the game to see if he could go. We waited until about 10 minutes before we had to send in the inactive list." 
He gave Indianapolis' leaky run defense the backbone it had been missing in previous games when Tennessee, Denver and Washington overpowered the Colts on the ground. 
Rose signs one-year, $1.5 million deal with Suns 
PHOENIX -Jalen Rose signed with the. Phoenix Suns on Tuesday and is expected to be in uniform at San Antonio on Wednesday. 
The former Indiana Pacer, who received a $14.5 million buyout from the New York Knicks last week, will receive about $1.5 mil­lion in his one-year deal with Phoenix. just over the NBA veteran·s minimum. 
The 33-year-old guard-forward has averaged 14.7 points over 894 games in 12 NBA seasons. He is joining an offensive-minded, fast­paced team that has struggled to a 1-3 start this season. 
Rose had narrowed his choices to Phoenix and Miami, then announced on his Web site Friday that he decided on the Suns. He said he wanted to play for a team with a legitimate shot at the NBA title. 
"It's not about personal stats," Rose said Monday. 
Boxer and gang leader Tanner 
convicted on drug charges 
HAMMOND -Former light heavy­weight boxer Charles "Duke" Tanner, a reputed leader of Gary's Renegades street gang, was convicted of federal drug and conspiracy charges that 
.. 

could put him behind bars the rest of his life. 
Tanner, who won 90 fights as an amateur and was 19-0 as a profes­sional before his arrest in 2004, was found guilty Monday on two counts of conspiracy to distribute cocaine and a single count of possession with intent to distribute more than 50 grams of cocaine. 
The 26-year-old fighter was con­sidered one of the brightest talents to come through Gary's Police Athletic League gym. 
"When he wasn't boxing, Charles Tanner was busy becoming leader of one of the street gangs known as the Renegades," said Assistant U.S. Attorney David Nozick during his closing statement. 
Wednesday, November 8, 2006 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 


Players struggle in national tourney 

Four falter in first round at Ohio State 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Wrirer 

'-Notre Dame ran into some tough competition at the ITA National Indoor Championships this weekend at Ohio State. Four of six Irish players lost in the first round while the dou­bles team of junior Brook Buck and sophomore Kelcy Tefft lost 8-6 in the semifinals to No. 4 seed Megan Moulton-Levy and Katarina Zoricic of William and Mary. No. 24-ranked TCU's Anna Sydorska and Ana Cetnik bounced Notre Dame's No. 3 doubles team of seniors Christian 
and Catrina "It was really who defeated Thompson in the exciting that both Ciobanu in the 
first round of play finals of the ITA
[Rielley] and I
8-3. The No. 1-Midwest seeded Thompson qualified for this. Regionals to pairing jumped qualify for the
It was a great
out to an early 2-national tourna­
experience. , 
0 lead, but ment, lost a Sydorska and tough match in Cetnik -who Cosmina Ciobanu three sets to advanced to the Carole Salge of
Irish freshman 
finals of the tour­nament grabbed eight of the next nine games for the victory. The Thompsons dropped to 6-2 on 
the year in doubles play. 
"TCU hit the ball big, and the indoor courts at Ohio State were very fast," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "They were a good team and their game is suited for indoor play." 
Despite the early exit, Louderback is not worried about the Thompson sisters' play. 
The duo defeated Duke and Florida's No. 1 doubles teams in the tournament's consolation draw, before losing 8-6 to Cal's Susie Babos and Zsuzsanna Fodor. 
"They played very well there, so there are no problems," Louderback said. 
Tefft and Buck defeated Georgia Tech's Kristi Miller and Alison Silverio 8-5 in the open­ing round of play and knocked off Lauren Macfarlane and Nicola Slater of Florida State 8­4 in the quarterfinals, before losing to Moulton-Levy and Zoricic. 

"They had a great tourna­ment," Louderback said. "They just lost a heartbreaker in the semifinals. They've been play­ing great all year. We're hoping to get two teams into the NCAAs this year." 
Freshman Cosmina Ciobanu lost to Georgia Tech's Miller 6­3, 6-1 -who is ranked third in the country in singles play. 
"It didn't go so well. She was a really good player," Ciobanu said. 'The first set was a little closer, but once she got up on me, she got me." 
Freshman 
Colleen Rielley, 
Clemson, 3-6, 7­
5, 6-4. The loss ended Rielley's six-match win­ning streak. 
"Colleen played really well, and the girl she played was really good too," Ciobanu said. 
"Colleen had some problems with [Salge's] courtside manner. [Salge] was very manly out on 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
AP releases All-America list 
UNC's Hansbrough, Florida's Noah picked for preseason honor 
Associated Press 

Tyler Hansbrough of North Carolina led a preseason All­America team of underclass­men. 
The 6-foot-9 sophomore for­ward was the top vote-getter Tuesday on the team chosen by the same panel that selects The Associated Press' weekly college basketball poll. 
Joining Hansbrough were juniors Joakim Noah of Florida, Ronald Steele of Alabama and Glen Davis of LSU and sophomore Brandon Rush of Kansas. 
The 2006-07 team was decidedly different from the season before when four sen­iors and a junior were picked for the preseason honors. 
Hansbrough was named on 65 of the 72 ballots, one more than Noah. Steele received 55 votes, while Davis had 51 and Rush 26. 
Hansbrough was the key to North Carolina's surprising season that saw the Tar Heels go from unranked to 1Oth in the final poll. He averaged 
18.9 points and 7.9 rebounds and made Carolina fans and coar.h Roy Williams very happy when he decided to return for a second season in Chapel Hill. "I've never really known a 
"There's a lot of things I player to spend another year want to accomplish as a with coach Williams and get team," Hansbrough said. "I worse." had a good year, but I talked The 6-foot-11 Noah was the to coach and we both agreed star of Florida's run to its first there's a lot of things I could national championship last get better at individually. I'd season, averaging 14.2 points like to go a little farther in the and 7.1 rebounds. His flowing tournament and have a better hair and engaging smile has ending. made him a fan favorite and his ever-improving talent has made the son of former tennis star Yannick Noah one of the country's top players. 
"Don't expect to see Michael Jordan out there right now. There was so much hype around him at the end of the year. He's not Michael Jordan," Florida coach Billy Donovan said. 


the court, spitting on the court. Colleen found her really annoy­ing and shegot frustrated." 
Rielley and Ciobanu both dropped their first-round con­solation matches. 
Despite the early exit, the tournament was a chance for the freshmen to get a taste of the national spotlight. 
"It was really exciting that both Colleen and I qualified for this," Ciobanu said. "It was a great experience." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
Presents: 

Deacon George Broo.ks on the death, penalty: "A c·all .c C"' .. n
.,. · , · · 10r ompass1on · 



I . . . . . . . . . . . .··· ,.·.·..,•. .• •. .•. . ><'··
ttNcJt, all ~rJ.~..-s wilt e.,i.;p4rtl\o'\{-:~ i'IU~ous. c~,(~ ... ~i~"· No-t. ~u 'A>"ill ..-e~lt\t ~J. ~aeY:': k'Or·,vQlo\4~~ Euf.,. wt,-tfJ.~e~ t.he't~ ~o ex ~~~t} tU 1tra c:kalt:.lre"' o.q 60t:l.~ 
.. I ... nn T l . T ......... l ........... r ... , .. 
u •••u.. 

November 8th, 7:00PM Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Co..,Sponsnr0d bj< The Center fm Civil and Hun1an Right£ 
esc 
AnmeHty Int~tn.:nh"mal 

t;(~t'T(P r~'f'f 
Rig,bt to Life

SOCIAL CONCERNS Colh:ge Dt~tnrH:rats Campus Ministry Progressive Student Alliance 


/ 
, 
l 
l
i 
( 
~ 
Wednesday, November 8, 2006 page 19 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Indiana looks to bounce back after Minnesota blowout 
Hoosiers try to keep bowl hopes alive as they prepare for No. 2 Michigan on heels of 63-26 loss to Golden Gophers 
While it may look like a daunting task, Hoeppner believes he and his players can get things righted. 
"Part of it is execution on the field, part of it is if we can put them in better coverages ­and that's our responsibility as coaches," Hoeppner said. "To say 'I'll coach better and you 30. 
The next week, at Illinois, it looked like a replay as the Fighting Illini built an early 25­7 lead. It was then that Hoeppner, uncharacteristically, called his defense together on the sideline and unleashed an emotional tirade. 
Over the next 
3 1/2 games, 

For the second time in five the Insight they visit archri­weeks, Hoeppner was critical Bowl. val Purdue, a
"Getting to a bowl
of himself, his coaching staff Part of the venue where and his players' performance, problem, game zs very they last won in then acknowledged it would Hoeppner important to me, Bill Mallory's take a unified front to fix the believes, is that final game as
especially these 
problems a disastrous game at the Hoosiers coach in 1996. Minnesota exposed before it's ar~ pressing. seniors.·· One win makes too late. "Getting to a the Hoosiers 
"I think it's my job to say bowl game is bowl eligible.
Terry Hoeppner 
your performance was not OK, very important Two losses

Indiana coach 
and my performance was not to me, especial­extend the con-OK," he said during Tuesday's ly these sen-ference's longest weekly news conference. "It's iors," Hoeppner bowl drought by not OK to tolerate it and we're said. "They've said to me, another year, a fate they're not going to tolerate it from me 'Coach, we've never been this desperately trying to avoid. 
play better'. it's Indiana
"Part ofit is execution 
not just that." allowed 10 
What the on the field. part ofit is more TD pass­
Hoosiers must ifwe can put them in es, but five find is a quick­were against
better coverages -and
fix to the Big No. 1 Ohio
that's our
Ten's third-State and worst pass responsibility as another was in 
defense. the fourth
coaches ... 
Bryan Cupito quarter of a looked like an 46-21 victory All-American Terry Hoeppner over Michigan as he carved up Indiana coach State. 
Thursday, November 9, 2006 119 O'Shaugnessy 6:00-8:00 PM 
The purposeofthis forum \ViJJ be to provide students -vvith inforn1ation about sources of funding for undergraduate research. Six undergraduate recipients of these awards \VilJ speak about their experienceof writing proposals, conducting their research, and seeing their projects to completion. Food will be provided. 
Sponsored by the Office of Undergraduate 
Studies in the College of Arts and Letters. 
f:±.l
w 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE Of' ARTS AND LETI'ERS 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON -Terry Hoeppner has played the steady steward all season ­mostly holding his emotional pleas in check. 
With the Indiana Hoosiers now needing a late-season boost, it's time for the excitable coach to pull out his best pep talk. 
or anybody else." Indiana's collapse couldn't have come at a worse time. 
At 5-5 (3-3), the Hoosiers had seemingly built confidence after three October wins raised hopes of a bowl bid. Last Saturday's inexplicable per­formance, a 63-26 loss to the Golden Gophers, crushed that momentum in front of a repre­sentative from 
close.' So there is this unspo­ken pressure, and I've told them there is no pressure." 
But now the quest to become bowl-eligible for the first time since 1993 is more difficult. 
This week in their home finale, the Hoosiers face No. 2 Michigan, which escaped Ball State's upset bid last week and has one of the nation's top 
defenses. Then 
Indiana, and Wisconsin did the same as it jumped to a 52-0 lead on Sept. 
If it happens 
again, the 

Hoosiers' post­season prospects could be doomed. 
Hoeppner has already tried moving players, replacing starters, trying freshmen and changing coverages to plug holes. 
But, as Saturday demonstrat­ed, there's still a major prob­lem. 
"Defensive back was my posi­tion, and I hate to admit it now because people say I hope you were a better player than a coach," Hoeppner joked. "Before the Minnesota game, I said 'If I were them, I'd play­action pass and throw it deep.' Fifty-eight yards later... " 
So what's wrong and what's the solution? 
"We've spent hours trying to patch up and repair things, try­ing to replace individuals," Hoeppner said. 
Indiana has rallied before. 
It's come back from double­digit deficits three times this season, but what they must show now is more resiliency. 
Hoeppner has a plan. He wants his players and coaches to work harder, concentrate more and challenge themselves to perform better. 
And they must play with more emotion. 
"I was disappointed and have even used the word embarrass­ing ber:ause I didn't think we had a game like that in us," Hoeppner said. "We didn't play with the same energy and enthusiasm Saturday that we had playing with and we need to do that this week." 

Wednesday, November 8, 2006 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 




Jets' punter discovered by Mangini after Down Under kick 
Former Australian soccer player Graham now in second season 

Associated Press HEMPSTEAD, N.Y.-Ben Graham's journey to the NFL began with a long kick over a big river in Australia. Sounds like the premise· of a heartwarming children's tale, except this one's true. New ..:_ York Jets coach Eric Mangini saw the tape that proved it. "He kicked the ball over the Yarra River, and that was it for me," Mangini said, recalling the jaw-dropping video he saw nine years ago. Graham was competing in a made-for-television event that featured some of the strongest legs in the Australian Football League, where he was a star for the Geelong Cats. He made it to the final of the competi­tion and had to kick it as far as he could into Melbourne's main river. "He kicked it over, and at that point, what he was doing with that ball, I was kind of curious to see what he could do for us," said Mangini, who was then an assistant with the Jets. Mangini offered him a chance to try out for the team and Graham briefly flirted with the idea. "Eric saw the footage before I sent the DVDs out to get my name out there on the radar in America, but he was the first one to see," Graham said in his warm Australian accent. "He worked me out and that start­ed the ball rolling." And just like a boomerang, the two are back together ­even though it took a while. Graham is in his second sea­son booming punts for the Jets, and ranks ninth in the NFL with a 38.6-yard net average. It would be higher if' not for 61-and 56-yard punts earlier this season that were negated by penalties. Not bad for a guy who knew nothing about punt­ing until last summer. "If someone had asked me two years ago and said that in two years time, 'This is where you'd be,' I would've taken it hands down," Graham said. The 33-year-old Graham was considered mostly a novelty last summer when Herman Edwards brought him into training camp to compete with veteran Micah Knorr. But with each left-footed, end-over-end thump, it became apparent Graham was the real deal. He had an impressive rookie season in which he had a net average of 37.9 yards. When Mangini took over as the Jets' coach, it was a no-brainer that he'd keep Graham. "He has incredible strength," said special teams coordinator Mike Westhoff, who previously coached Pro Bowlers Reggie Roby, Matt Turk and Rohn Stark. "Ben is really capable, not that he's one of those guys, but I'm familiar with very good football players and Ben Graham is a talented man and has really done. a heck of a job adapting to a skill that's in a lot of ways foreign to him." The Jets have considered using Graham on kickoffs because of his strong leg, but Westhoff said that will have to wait a while until he becomes more familiar with the kicking motion. The team has also 
entertained thoughts of getting the 6-foot-5, broad-shouldered Graham more involved in the offense. 
A punter lining up at tight end? It could happen, especial­ly with Mangini's penchant for trying new things. 
"We've worked on some of that stuff. and he has done some things situationally," Mangini said. "Punters are tough to get, and punters of his caliber are tougher to get. So there is always that risk­reward of getting too involved 
situationally and then losing them." 
Graham welcomes the idea of going out for a pass. 
"I know I've got the skills to contribute elsewhere," he said. "But it's a game where you concentrate on your job. If something happens down the track, we'll definitely work on that to the point where we know it's going to work in an NFL game." 
The precedent had already been set for Australians to come over to the NFL, with 
Darren Bennett doing it 12 years ago. But Graham had never actually punted before. 
''I've kicked a ball ever since I could walk, so the kicking technique was a natural thing," Graham said. "To con­fine the technique just to a punting action was the hard part. A consistent stepping pat­tern, a consistent drop." 
Graham was given some lee­way last season when it came to the types of punts he was asked to do, but refined his footwork and technique in the offseason. 
"I was just pretty much look­ing to get the ball down the field the best I could last year," he said. "So this year, there are expectations and standards and trying to capitalize on field position and the rest of it." 
One big surprise for Graham was having to hold the ball on field-goal attempts. So, he spent countless hours practic­ing with kicker Mike Nugent, taking snaps and learning how to place the ball down correct­ly. 


Stu ying Ha~ 
?• 
Reward yourself with a $40 Papa John's· Gift Card;· exclusively from Discover® Card 

Q/ The Discover Student Card 
• No annual fee 
7o 
• Cashback Bonus® on every purchase 
lntro APR* 
• 
Easiest online account management 

• 
$0 fraud liability guarantee 

• 
Talk to a live person in under 60 seconds 



Apply today. Call 1-800-347-2091 or visit Discovercard.com/card4student Enter or mention invitation #SBDN. 

DISCOVER. 
CARD 

*lntro pt.m:hme APR: me until the kw day of the 6th biliing period oher your account is open. then a variable rete ot 1 O.':i'9%, applies. Cosh APR: 22.99%. Defouit APR: voriab!e between 21.99'1'o and 28.99% ba~ed on payment hi~tory. Min. fin. Chg.: $.50. Cash tram. fee: 3%, min. $5 and oo max. Rates os of August 1, 2006. ~·•$40 f't..PA JOHN'S GIF' CARD OFFER: You wil! receive two $20 Papa John's"' Gift Cord:; by moil. within 6-il weeb of making your first purchase with your Discover Card. If os ot the dote we determine whether you met the term~ of this offer, your accol•nt is closed or delinquent; you will not receive the Gift Cord. limit two Gift Cards per Accoun1. We ore nor responsible for merchonl delcys in processing tronsoct!ons. Subject to Popo John's'~'~ Gift Cord Terms ond Conditions. Offer volid 10/1/06-1/31/07. ~2006 Discover Bonk, Mef!'ber FDIC 
-

Wednesday, November 8, 2006 page 21
The Observer • SPORTS 
video.'' That opportunity to watch
Layoff 
film and prepare for next continued from page 24 Wednesday's game will likely aid Notre Dame. 
"It's a huge advantage that strength and get back to full you can scout the teams you health before the season's can potentially play, [and] we final push. can see what their strengths 
"I think were going to try are," Dalby said. "All three of 
and keep it sharp," senior our coaches are going to go to goalkeeper Chris Cahill said. the game." "I think there's a Dalby, however, 
few areas of our warned that scout­
game both defen­..The other team is ing the opposition
sively and offen­important. but not was less than half sively where were the battle.
nearly as

gonna try to polish "What's most up." important as we important is how
,.

The extra five­are. we play, [and] how day rest to await we handle what the first round we do well," he
Greg Dalby 

winner -on top said. "The other of an already Irish midfielder team is important large layover but not nearly as 
between games -gives Notre important as we are." Dame the opportunity to scout One major downside of hav­its opponent, which did not ing such a long stretch of come as a surprise to many inactivity is the possibility of players. regression. The Irish, howev­
"I think we all expected a er, aren't concerned with that bye," Irish captain and mid­possibility. fielder Greg Dalby said. "We In past years, Notre Dame had [Monday] off, and has had similar breaks, and [Tuesday] we just watched the experienced team has 
learned to adjust to the time off. 
"We train at such a high level, [and] we're playing just as good of competition in practice as we would against any other team in the coun­try," Cahill said. "We're not just trying to stay in the same spot [as we were when we played our last game], we're trying to get better." 
Dalby feels that this year's team is more mature than last year's edition at handling the time off and will be prepared come game time. Last season, the Irish went 12-8-3 in 2005 and lost 1-0 at No. 12 Clemson in the second round of the NCAA Tournament after upsetting No. 3 Indiana 2-0. 
"Last year we didn't know what to expect [in the tourna­ment] and we're just happy to be a part of it," he said. 
Ultimately, Cahill verbalized what has likely been Notre Dame's theme for the past two week of practice. 
"We don't want to come out flat on Wednesday," he said. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Louisville not just about horses and hookshots anymore 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -In a city hooked on long shots and jump shots, college football has long been a diversion, something for fall Saturdays before the horses start running at Churchill Downs and the 
Louisville  basketball  team  
packs Freedom Hall.  
"There  were  good  seats  

available, any day, any time with any number of people you 
wanted to bring as a guest," Mayor Jerry Abramson said. "Those days are over." 
Are they ever. 
Two decades ago, former coach Howard Schnellenberger -who led Miami to a national title in 198 3 -later took a decidedly lower-profile job with the Cardinals. He raised more than a few eyebrows when he said Louisville was "on a collision course with the national championship, the only variable is time." Those words have proved prophetic. 
With a month to go in the season, No. 3 Louisville (8-0, 3­0 Big East) controls its destiny in the chase for a berth in the Bowl Championship Series title game. 
And perhaps just as remark­able, football's popularity is making inroads in a basketball town where March Madness never really ends. 
Billboards with pictures of 

Stop in at any of our 12locations or visit us online. 

574/239-6611. www.ndfcu.org 
Short or tall. Big or small. Whatever the size of your home, the closing costs are the same. 
For a limited time only, you'll pay just $799 in closing costs! 
Let us help you into the horne ofyour dreams. Contact us today. 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 

star players like quarterback Brian Brohm and the phrase "R U Ready?" line the free­ways. Jerseys with No. 12 (Brohm) or No. 19 (injured running back Michael Bush) are the clothing option of choice at sparkling Papa John's Stadium for home games. 
And Internet chat rooms hum with speculation and jubilation over Louisville's lofty ranking and the futures of Brohm and coach Bobby Petrino. 
The basketball team, mean­while, began practice three weeks ago with little fanfare. Rick Pitino's team was in the Final Four less than two years ago but is coming off a 21-13 season and was relegated to the NIT. 
Sure, there was the usual sellout crowd of more than 18,000 fans at Freedom Hall for an exhibition win over Georgetown (Ky.) College on Nov. 1. Yet most of the buzz wasn't over freshman forward Derrick Caracter, but the foot­ball team's chances against West Virginia the next night. 
After coaching under the microscope for ,years -first at Kentucky, now at Louisville -Pitino doesn't mind if the scrutiny shifts a little ways down the street from Freedom Hall to the aptly named Howard Schnellenberger Football Complex. 
"It's helping us in one sense in that it takes the attention away from us and let's us focus in on ourselves," said Pitino, whose team was not ranked in the preseason Top 25 in any major poll. "Our players see that kind of excellence and it only helps us." 
Former basketball coach Denny Crum led the Cardinals to NCAA titles in 1980 and 1986 and now co-hosts a sports talk show with former Kentucky coach Joe B. Hall. Normally this time of year the phone lines are jammed with Kentucky and Louisville sup­porters already debating the outcome of their annual bas­ketball clash. 
Instead, Crum and Hall spend most of the show talking 
to callers theorizing over what the Cardinals have to do to make it to the BCS title game. 
"The interest in the football team is off' the scale and bas­ketball's taken kind of a hind seat," Crum said. "I don't think you'll really start hearing about the basketball team until the football team loses." 
Which might not be until January, if at all. And unlike the football team's last bout with success Schnellenberger led the Cardinals to their only New Year's bowl victory by winning the 1991 Fiesta Bowl only to leave four years later -Crum doesn't think this year's team is an aberration. 
"I think where they're at right now is where they're going to stay," Crum said. "This is something that's only going to build." 
Literally. Louisville athletic director Tom Jurich is propos­ing a plan that would expand capacity at Papa John's Stadium _ which isn't even a decade old _ from 42,000 to 63,600 by 2010. For the first time in the program's history, there is a waiting list for sea­son tickets and merchandise sales have never been stronger, thanks in large part to national television appear­ances the last few years under Petrino. 
Pt}trino and Pitino insist th'ey're not trying to win a pop­ularity contest. While the foot­ball team has all attention right now, the basketball pro­gram has all the championship banners. 
"The tradition we have in basketball is something we're trying to get to," Petrino said. 
Both coaches stop short of calling Louisville a "football school" or a "basketball school." They feel there's plen­ty of room for both. 
"We're very secure in who we are and what we stand for and we're very humble about ourselves," Pitino said. "We're not looking to be king. Kings arc for people who are part of royalty. We're just looking to have our excellence when we play, that's it." 
Wednesday, November 8, 2006

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
Altitude 
continued from page 24 
drives and has field goals in five others. By comparison, Notre Dame has 26 touch­downs and six field goals on 35 red zone opportunities. 
Air Force has outscored its opponents in every quar­ter on the season, with its most scoring-70 points ­coming in the second quar­ter. 
Notes: 
+Notre Dame and Air Force will honor the son of Irish defensive backs coach Bill Lewis, who graduated from the Air Force Academy in 1992 and died in a helicopter crash in 1998, with a decal replica­tion of his unit's patch. 
Gregg Lewis was a walk-


Classic 
continued from page 24 
25th or better in all four Irish events this season. 
Rounding out the lineup for Notre Dame were junior Eddie Peckels, senior co­captain Adam Gifford and junior Greg Rodgers. 
In his first event as a member of the Irish top five this season, Peckels tied for 50th place with a three-over-par 219. 
Gifford shot an eight-
SENATOR CONDRA 

on on the 1988 Falcons' football team and was killed in a helicopter train­ing mission for the 66th Rescue Squadron based at Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada. 
"About a month or two ago, Geoff [Lewis, Gregg's brother], who lives down in Georgia, e-mailed me and asked me if there's any way that a combination of Notre Dame and Air Force could do anything to kind of honor his brother but really for the sake of his parents," Weis said. "So we first went through Notre Dame to make sure it was okay with everyone from Notre Dame, and then we got a hold of Air Force, and after going back and forth, Air Force jumped on board." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
over-par 224 and Rodgers finished with a score of 16­over-par 232. 
The next and final event of the fall season for the Irish will be the inaugural Aloha Purdue Collegiate Invitational Nov. 22-23. The tournament will be held at the Kiahuna Golf Club in Poipu, Hawaii. 
It will also mark the first time the Irish have visited Hawaii in the 77-year his­tory of the golf program. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

Boost 
continued from page 24 
second big guy, the 'four man' guarding him." 
The sophomore forward was involved in even more plays where his name didn't show up in the stat sheets. Hillesland was a ball hound on Notre Dame's successful first-half full court press. He proved to be a great help defender. He also showed an ability to use his 6­foot-8, 225-pound frame to drive baseline. 
And those plays don't even account for the 360-degree pass he attempted in transition during the second half. Showtime anyone? 
"I don't know how fast Magic Johnson was, but I guess if you want to call me a little bit slow­er that's fine because I never played against him," Hillesland joked after the game. "I think [I could keep up with him in the race], especially nowadays because he's like eighty, so whatever." 
Irish senior Russell Carter smiled at the comparison Monday, saying that he doesn't mind going with Magic Johnson but he sees Hillesland more in the Larry Bird mold. 
"He's flashy, he knows what he's doing," Carter said. "It may not look like it, but he knows what he's doing. I see that every day in practice, I'm just happy he's out there." 
On a serious note, Hillesland could be a vital cog in Notre Dame's system this year with the regular season beginning Friday. The Irish have proven scorers in Carter and senior two guard Colin Falls, and a creative play maker in point guard Kyle McAlarney. 
They also have a trio of for­wards in Harangody, Kurz and sophomore Luke Zeller -a former McDonald's All­American who led the Irish in scoring Monday -who should handle most of the post duties. 

But a basketball team is only as good as its depth, and with Hillesland as the second or third man off the bench ­freshman point guard Tory Jackson has looked flashy and explosive this fall -he will create immediate mismatches against less athletic power for­wards when Notre Dame sees man defenses. 
"He's so creative like that, out there on the floor ... he does every thing, he passes, he can rebound it, he defends well, he can run the floor well," McAlarney said. "I love playing with those kind of guys because they get their job done." 
But more important than Hillesland's all-around ability -or his witty sense of humor -is his absolute command of the Notre Dame system. Brey has touted him as being the definitive leader in practice on 
the second team (the blue team). 
"When we go blue against white, Falls knows our system best on the · whites and Hillesland knows it really well on the blues," Brey said. "He's coaching all those young guys he's got with him on the blue team." _ 
And given Hillesland 's strong command of the offense so early in his Notre Dame career, the forward sees some improvements that need to be made as the Irish progress in their season. 
"I think we've still yet to put together forty solid minutes," Hillesland said. "We've had spurts here and there where we've played really well offen­J sively, really well defensively. Jl Now we've just got to start building on that." 
j 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 


Join North Dining Hall for a special 






T KSGIVING BUFFET 
November 23rd 
12:00 p.m. -3=30 p.m. 
Adults: $15.25 Children ages 6-12:$7.65 Children 5 and under: Free ~ 

MENU 
l·iORS [)'OEUVRES 
Pumpkin Dip in a Bread Bowl White Bean Dip in a Bread Bowl Mulled Cranberry Apple Cider Cranberry Orange Pomegranate Punch Spinach and Artichoke Dip Variety of Gourmet Breads 
SALADS 

Spinach . .Mixed Fri~ee. Mesdun Greens Avocado Dressing Hot Bacon Dressing Roasted Red Pepper Vinaigr?.tte Ft·uit Salad wilh Tanger·ine Dressing Lobster Bisque New England Squash 
ENTREES 

Roas.ed Tom Turkey Baked Ham with Irish Whiskey Glaze Grilled Halibut with Apple and Horseradish S<tuash ButternuL Tor·tellini 
Sl DES 

C;mdied Sweet Pot;uoes Fresh Garlic Mashed Potatoes 
Sage&. Onion StuHing Green Bean Casserole 


N@RTH

Fresh Carrots with Cranberries 
Giblet Gravy or Tur~cy Gravy FOOD COURT 
Wednesday, November 8, 2006 page 23 
The Observer+ TODAY 
JOCULAR ALEC~'HITE 

CROISSANTWORLD ADAM FAIRHOLM 
HE-W..O FE\..l.oW 
l :lUS"T WAr-lTE.t> 1b 
STUt>E-t-JT 
RE...rrE.f!:.Pt'"CE ~~ 
A ~E. A L.l.. ON E. 'S\(r 
HA.~ F'AM\U-f 1 US 
U.Nt>E"Es'AAt:6 Ji>.NP 


f 

SO l ~E:.SS '/OlD KNCMJ ~ A@.cUI NP S"tUD€NI 
~oN 
\<.Now\...E..t>t% \:: , 
~c.H AS WH"f 
'1:x:>ME.~f'E.~T" 6 BEAll.AS\.£. F~ APP~i!:.0~\1"\A\E.\...'f 
,:z.. MtNl.xn:s. 
tx>ME.ME~\? 
OH '1 E. A'-"\ ... 
iH~-r WAS 
A-r c.o~&.fS ... \ -rHtN K. WAS \T ..• 
B~CAUSE:. 
~R~'-1 , l WP..~ L.OO"-tNtr' Fo~ EAR.C.N l:r AW "-V'tJH~E.~ t.ouP LE:'t> wrn-\ SOUN c..E. -HOUSE­\ NDU.C.E.t> t>'~ o ~\~t..rf'I·'\'Tl ON) 
8U"C' "fOU CAN S.-nu.. rl~"~~E. us<.. -nc..tc.e:\S, JU${' LH\U.. OU.T" A\.$£ 
HENRI ARNOLD 


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. 
Your left, your left. I to form four ordinary words. said your left, Jones 
SUMEO 


I I I 
©2005 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
PINYP 


± 
I I r J ItULSSET 
J I I [] THE: BE:ST WAY TO 
www.jumble.com 
TE:A.C.H RE:C.r<!UITS HOW TO MARC.H. 
FORTYS ± 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer here: [ BY [


I I I ] I I I ] 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: IGLOO LOUSY PASTRY HAPPEN Answer: When they looked at the dishes through the store window, they saw-"PLATE" GLASS 
l'HE.. B£.E.fi!... '\1\JAS :so E~PE.NSWE.. "? 

CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  35 Popular brand  64 "Keep your _  
1 Appropriate­ of lingerie  the ball"  
sounding papal  39 Excellent,  65 Surefooted goat  
name  slangily  66 In the thick of  
5 Word on a headstone 9 Gulped bar drinks  40 Word that can follow the starts of 17-and 61-Across and 10-and  67 of time 68 Runtish 69 "_Lisa"  
14 Waffle brand 15 "East of Eden" director Kazan  30-Down 41 "One Tree Hill" target viewer  DOWN 1 Pickled peppers  
16 Kind of typing 17 They have a chilling effect  42 Jack-tar 43 X_ xylophone 44 Gave up  measure 2 Famed lab assistant 3 Wrinkled fruit  
19 Exterior  45 Cut (off)  4 Landscapers'  
20 Skating great Yamaguchi 21 Doubting Thomas, for one 23 Top guns  47 Port of Japan 49 Scam 52 Rod and reel, e.g.  supplies 5 "No nasty comments!" 6 Commercial suffix with Rock  
26 Ancient  53 Harvesting team  7 Abbr. on a  
27 Not imaginary  55 Subdued  headstone  
31 Gun 32 "_ directed" 33 Unswerving  60 Departmental opening? 61 1983 Burt Lancaster film  8 G-suit acronym 9 Laughingstock 10 Congressional Record info  29 "Hud" Oscar winner  40 Escapade 44 Song often  51 Ingested 54 Skirt feature  
11  lunch  30 Rancher's  sung outdoors  56 "Pow!" 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE equipment 
46 Where the 
12 Kind of count in 57 sa be 
34 Ones touching buoys are? 
a blood test elbows 58 Land o' blarney 
48 Astronomical13 Bit, as of 36 Spartan queen study 59 "Star Wars" sage 
evidence 37 Techie, 49 Alternative to 62 Part of a
18 General's stereotypically onion rings geisha's attire 
display 38 Me, myself __ 50 Actress Lotte 63 100 yrs. 
22 Whittles (down) 
24 Singer James and others 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
25 "The Twilight Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
Zone" host 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 27 Recipe Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
measures Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 28 Hazmat solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords.
regulator 

EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jason and Jeremy London, 34; Todd McKee. 
43; Joni Mitchell, 63 

Happy Birthday: You have a final push to make before you will strut to get returns for your hard work but it will be worthwhile. Follow the most unique path and you will discover your own potential and be able to differentiate between what actually works for you and what doesn't. You have another year to tight for your position; don't give up. Your numbers are 10. 17, 26. 34, 41.42 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Get your idea out there. Travel. communication and pushing to get ahead are all in the stars so don't waste time thinking about what you want to do. Get busy and make it happen. 4 stars 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You arc running in circles and getting very little done. Slow down and decide what's really important. A partnership may be causing you some concern or an older or younger relative may be a burden. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Keep your feet on the ground and your head out of the clouds and you >hould be able to get things done. Finish what you start. Someone may try to sabotage what you are doing. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Keep things out in the open and you will do so much better in the long run. Someone from your past will help you make a decision. Emotional connections may be enticing but it's best to move slowly. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Do what you can for organizations you believe in. However, you have to take care of personal matters before they escalate into something that will not be easy to rectify. Property can be bought and sold and money deals taken care of. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Someone you work with or are partnered with may cause 
emotional trauma for you today. Stick close to the people you know you can trust. Keep 
the Jines ofcommunication open so you can stay in the loop. 2 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may feel like taking off or doing something different but you should be focusing on how you earn your living and what you can do to advance. A lot will depend on how you get along with the people you are working with or for. 5 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A deal can be put on the table or completed today. Changes to your home can be positive if you make your decisions based on facts. Don't take chances if you feel a cold coming on. Health problems may deter you. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Someone is probably keeping something from you 
-

today. You will have to find out if you want to get things done properly. An emotional matter concerning a partner will leave you feeling uncertain about your future. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take a totally different approach to whatever you need to do today and you will surprise the people who may want to hold you back or sabotage your plans. A minor problem with health or a pet ;s likely. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): The less contact you have with the outside world, the better. Concentrate on what needs to be done in your own back yard. An idea you have will help the people you live with feel better about the changes that occur. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You won't be able to trust everyone but, when acting on your own instincts, you will do extremely well. Don't let anyone talk you out of doing something you feel strongly about. Money matters, contracts and legal deals will pan out. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are brave, intense and can change your mind and your direction instantaneously. You are a no-nonsense, unique individual who has the ability to achieve greatness. 
Eugenia's Web sires: asrroadvice.comfor fun, eugenia/ast.comfnr confidential consultations 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ _ Address 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 


THE OBSERVER 
p
Wednesday, November 8, 2006 

page 24 
fOOTBALL 

Altitude preparation not high on Weis' priority list 
adjusting for the mile-high effect on players in the first that's how we're treating it." really -when you're playing
By KEN FOWLER 

altitude in Colorado is just 48 hours. Notre Dame will not alter -when you might have less 
Spons Editor 

"taboo." "What we found years ago its offensive and defensive than ten possessions, I think "It is taboo," said Weis dur­going out to Denver is that at strategies much because of every possession becomes so 
Don't ask Charlie Weis ing his weekly press confer­first we made a big deal out the altitude, Weis said. But critical." about the altitude. ence Tuesday. "It'll be the of it," Weis said. "We used to adjusting to Air Force's effi­Air Force has averaged a Experience tells him it's only first thing I talk about today, go out there two days early. cient and time-consuming 5:56 time of possession edge a distraction. and it'll be the last time that We'd go out there, make a option offense is a priority of in eight games this season. 
Notre Dame's second-year the word will be addressed." big deal out of it and then Weis'. And the Falcons usually 
coach referenced his days as Weis used to focus on we'd get our butt kicked. "I think the most important convert on their long drives. 
an offensive coordinator in adjusting to the thin air too "We started treating it like thing is scoring when you Air Force has scored touch­
the NFL when his teams much, even though scientific every other game, and then have the ball," Weis said. downs on 21 of 29 red zone 
would travel to Denver to evidence, he said, proves the we started winning. I'm just "That sounds like just a 
face the Broncos, saying altitude doesn't have an going off of experience, and coaching phrase, but that's see ALTITUDE/page 22 
\'' 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 


All-around presence 
"That's kind of my game, just
By BOB GRIFFIN 

go around, little things here 
Sports Writer 

and there, kind of make the team flow a little bit,"
When freshman Luke 

Hillesland said after Monday's
Harangody managed to find 

game. "I felt very comfortable forward Rob Kurz's nose dur­
out there ... probably more 
ing practice Sunday, it took the comfortable than the first exhi­

Irish coaching staff about 20 

bition game." 
minutes to let sophomore Zach Hillesland's statistics proveHillesland know he would be 

exactly how much he was 
starting in the team's final pre­involved -seven points, five season game. 
assists, four rebounds, two 
Hillesland responded by giv­blocks and two steals in 23 ing the Irish an all-around 
minutes. 
boost, showing an ability to 

"He's one of those guys that 
score, rebound, pass, dribble, 

fills every stat category," Irish defend and create in transition. 
coach Mike Brey said Monday.
It was a pretty good effort for a "He's a little bit unorthodox. He rarely used bench player last 
can guard anybody and he can 
season known more for his 

handle the ball. We can defi­
comedic presence in the locker 

nitely take advantage of the 
room than his on-court abili­ties. see BOOSTIpage 22 
:· 
I 

I 
1\
~· 
II 
i I'· MEN's SoccER 
Irish prepare during break 
By ERIC RETTER Associate Sports Editor 
By the time No. 12 Notre Dame steps back onto Alumni Field to play its next game, 18 days will have elapsed between contests. 
The Irish (13-5-2, 8-3-0 Big 

~·; 
East) last played Oct. 28,

I~' 
1'.1 when they lost to Rutgers 2-1 in the second round of the Big
:.fr 
East tournament. And they won't play again until the sec­ond round of the NCAA Tournament Nov. 15, when they take on the winner of 

) 
Friday's game between

' 
; Illinois-Chicago (12-2­
5)/Western Illinois (15-7-0). The Irish have used the time to rest, recover their leg 
see LAYOFF/page 21 


JENNIFER KANG!The Observer Irish senior forward Justin McGeeney heads the ball In a 4-1 win over Georgetown at Alumni Field Oct. 7. 
MEN'S GOLF 
Notre Dame finishes 11thinCalifornia Oassic 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 

Before the Irish teed off at the CordeValle Classic in San Martin, Calif. Monday, Irish coach Jim Kubinski said the field was tougher than any his team had seen all season. 
And unfortunately for the Irish, the competition in the event did not turn out to be any easier than it had seemed on paper. 
Despite recording a sea­son-low total score of five­over-par 869, the Irish fin­ished in 11th place out of the 17-team field -4 7 strokes behind the winner, Stanford. The Irish did, however, man­age to beat a top-25 oppo­nent, finishing five shots ahead of No. 22 TCU. 
Senior co-captain Cole Isban led the way for the Irish and finished tied for 19th place with a three­under-par 213. Isban, a sen­ior All-America candidate, also fired a career-best 66 during second round action Monday. 
One event after he tied for 1Oth place in the Prestige at PGA West in La Quinta, Calif., sophomore Josh Sandman was again steady as he finished tied for 25th place at one-under-par 215. Sandman has now placed 
see CLASSIC/page 22 

en 
NCAA FOOTBALL
NFL 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
NBA
NCAA FOOTBALL 

NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
1.1.1 

Hoosiers hope to keep 
North Carolina's Tyler 
Jets' punter Ben 
Thompson twins
Louisville's defeat of 
Miami 90 

their chance at a bowl 
upset in the first round 
Hansbrough tops
z West Virginia has ele-

Graham was discovered 
Seattle 87 

Associated Press presea­
vated football into the 

in Australia through a 
bid alive against 
of doubles play at the 
James Posey's 3-point­
:3


li: '-' 

ITA National Indoor 
son All-America list. 
Michigan this weekend. 
spotlight of a city famed 

videotape nine years 
er with 19 seconds left 
c::l 

Championships.
for horses and basket-

ago by now-head coach 
gives Miami the win. 
c 
ball. 

Eric Mangini. 
= 
page 16
page 18 

page 18
page 19

page 20
a. ti page 21 
en 





