
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Notre Datne bound for Bayou, BCS matchup 
Irish to face LSU in the Sugar Bowl 
By KEN FOWLER 
News Writer 
It will be "local flavor" ver­sus "national flavor" as Notre Dame will face Louisiana State in the Sugar Bowl at the Louisiana Superdome Jan. 3, and Sugar Bowl CEO Paul Hoolahan lauded the matchup as "just what the doctor ordered" for the struggling New Orleans economy. 
"If I had written this script, I couldn't have written it any better," Hoolahan said in a teleconference with media Sunday night. "This is going to be a tremendous atmos­phere." 
The Sugar Bowl was widely expected to select the Irish. 
The Tigers earned their bid after Southeastern Conference (SEC) foe Florida jumped from No. 4 to No. 2 in the Bowl Championship Series (BCS) standings and earned a spot in the BCS National Championship Game against undefeated No. 1 Ohio State. The SEC champion plays in the Sugar Bowl annually, except when it makes the national title game. 
With its compensatory selec­tion and first at-large pick, the Sugar Bowl grabbed the local favorites from Baton Rouge and the national pow­erhouse from South Bend for the first bowl game in the Superdome since Hurricane Katrina devastated New Orleans. 
"We have had some chal­lenges in the past year and a 
see BOWL/ page 6 


Aidan Project raises awareness 
Sophomore's battle with cancer inspires event to benefit patients, educate ND community 
By JENNIFER METZ News Writer 
Diagnosed with cancer on Sept. 25, Notre Dame sopho­more Aidan Fitzgerald was forced to miss the majority of the fall semester, but he returned to campus this week­end to take part in an e"vent created in his name to raise awareness about cancer in young adults and youth. 
The Aidan Project drew more than 200 participants who sat on the floor of the LaFortune Ballroom from 11 a.m. to 2 

p.m. Saturday to make fleece blankets and hats for a local cancer unit at St. Joseph's Memorial Hospital. 
The finished blankets, dis­played on a table at the entrance of the ballroom, were tied with a tag that read, "The Aidan Project. This blanket was made with love and with care, for each who receives one knows it comes with a prayer." 
Sophomore Chris Esber, Fitzgerald's roommate, said he and his friends were "shocked" to find out that their 19-year­old friend had cancer. They started the project -which was sponsored by Circle K, Knott Hall and the Class of 2009 -to raise awareness about cancer, especially cancer that affects young people. 
"The situation was definitely on [Esber's] mind ... he couldn't believe it happened to his roommate," said Jake Teitgen, a Circle K member. "We decid­ed we hadto do something." 
Teitgen, along with fellow Circle K members Cigi Low and Nicole Koors, helped Esban 
"We did the blanket project last year with Circle K," Esber said. "This year we've made [the collaboration] bigger, responding to this situation." 
Koors said organizers put up more than 100 posters in resi­dence halls and LaFortune to publicize the event. 
"This is the first time I had heard about someone in our age group developing cancer," Teitgen said. "This project is all about awareness and preven­tion." 

organize the Aidan Project. see AlDAN/page 9 
Health Center nears completion 
By RYAN SYDLIK News Writer 
University Health Services will return in January to its former location behind the Main Building after a year-and-a-half absence and $9.5 million of ren­ovations. 
Throughout the overhaul, Health Services has operated out of the old Security building, where Notre Dame Security/Police was located until it moved to the recently con­structed Hammes Mowbray Hall. 
Ann Kleva, director of University Health Services, called the renovations to the Student Health Center building "absolutely phenomenal." 
The updated facility will be much easier to navigate than the old one, Kleva said, and it will have an improved healthcare 
see HEALTH/page 6 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Tovvle tabbed for Marshall 
By MEGHAN WONS News Writer 
Senior Meg Towle's passion for and dedication to promot­ing international health as an essential foundation for peace building will take her to the United Kingdom next year as one of the 43 Marshall Scholarship recipients for 2007. 
Towle said she will use her all-expenses paid scholarship to pursue a M.S. of humanitar­ian studies at The Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, associated with the University of Liverpool. 
"I like how the program at Liverpool is about -'How do we get public health to work on the ground?"' Towle said. "I think it will be so cool to be there with people from all over the world and to draw from others' experiences. It will definitely be an interna­tional learning experience." 
She expects to complete the 
M.S. in one year and said the scholarship allows for some flexibility as to how she will use the second year. 
"For now I'm saying I'll probably stay on at the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, but I could get there and find some other fabulous program," she said. 
Towle said she learned she had been selected for the prestigious award on Nov. 8, the same day she was inter­viewed by a committee in Chicago. 
see SCHOLAR/page 8 

Bands con1pete, raise 
money for charities 
By MANDl STIRONE News Writer 

Three bands took the stage at Saint Mary's Student Center Lounge Saturday night to battle for studio time and raise money. 
The Battle of the Bands, organized by the Saint Mary's Dance Marathon Committee, was held to raise funds for Riley's Hospital for Children and for the upcoming Dance Marathon in the spring. 
Dance Marathon commit­tee leaders said they were proud of the event's success. The committee's co-presi­dent, Pauline Kistka, said if they broke even financially, the event had raised some awareness in the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame communities. 
Katius, a pop/punk band from Dayton, Ohio, won the contest and the prize -a recording session with Peak Audio Productions. 
The three bands played to a crowd of about 50 stu­dents, mostly from Saint Mary's. 
Katius' members were mostly high school students, with one St. Clair Community College sopho­more. Katius' connection to Saint Mary's was through one of their member's, who has two sisters at the College. Katius impressed the judges with their per­formance of their original 
see BANDS/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, December 4, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 
All I want for 

Christmas 
What's that? I'm in college so I'm not supposed to love Christmas toys any­more? 
I don't believe you. But, even if I am too old to drool over the best merchandise in the Toys 'H' Us 
catalogue, I've  Fran Tolan  
always said  
that you can never be too old  Sports Writer  
to \'.rite a col­ 
unminThe  

Observer ranking the greatest toys ever. 
I've always said that. 
Anyways, let's get this list started. 
My list will rank the greatest Christmas toys ever made. Each toy's ranking is in parentheses. Please understand that toys fall under a huge variety of categories and there's no way I'll be able to cover all ofyour favorites. I'll try my best though. 
Let's begin with the Christma.c; main­stays, the toys that seem to have a per­manent place under millions of trees every year. There are the Cabbage Patch Kids dolls (6). G.l. Joe action figures (5), the Pogo Stick (11), Barbie dolls {8), liteBrite (14) and Lego building blocks (17). 
Of course, there are also the annoying fad toys that show up tor one December and bring about the worst in parents like Sinbad and Arnold Schwartzenegger. A list of ChrLc;tmas toys wouldn't be com­plete without these. They include Tickle Me Elmo (16), the creepy Furby doll (20), and the Tamagotchi (15, because who wouldn't want to clean up an electronic animal's poop during the holiday sea­son?). 
Then we have the toys that every kid wants after watching an awesome movie featuring that toy. The best of this group are the Red Rider B.B. gun from "A Christmas Story" {13, although nowa­days, this may only be considered a toy south of the Mason Dixon line), the TalkBov voice recorder from "Home Alone 2" {7), and the tricycle ridden by that little girl in "The Shining" (just kid­ding, that didn't make the list). 
The rest of the list can be considered a hodgepodge of great memories from the childhoods of people far and wide. Creepy Crawlers (19), Nerf balls (18), Polly Pocket (12), Lincoh1 Logs (10), lionel trains (4), Hot Wheels cars and tracks (3), and those sweet Nerf guns (2) hold special places in many of our hearts. 
You're weleome ifIjust gave you a fla.c;hback to the glory days. 
Note that, in making this list, I disquali­fied generic toys like bicycles, sleds, video games and board games. Also, I steered clear of educational toys because they generally are not fun to play with. Finally, I am sorry if this list is somewhat gender­biased. Actually, no, I'm not. 
Without further ado, I will name the greatest Christmas toy of all time: The Hess Truck. That's right. With a new design every year since 1964, the Hess Truck ic; an affordable, must-have for tons of people every year. 
This year's Hess Truck comes with a helicopter and a flatbed truck, all equipped with flashing lights. The great song on its commercials clinches the top spot for thLc; one-of-a-kind toy. "For Christmaaaaaaaaaaaasss this year ... the Hess truck's here!" 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsemer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publication and strives for rhe highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: How DO YOU THINK NOTRE DAME WILL FARE IN THE SUGAR BOWL? 






Andy Hank Joe Mancuso Kevin Carrier Meghan Chidsey Monica Regnier Patrick Miller 
junior sophomore junior senior senior junior O'Neill fisher Fisher offcampus Breen-Phillips Fisher 
"Notre Dame "Better than "Hopefully "It will be "It will be a "Better than the JI, LSU 28, Mark May says better than the sweet." piece ofcake. " Republicans in 
in overtime. " we will, but not Fiesta Bowl." well enough to win. 

ANNA AMBERKAR/The Observer 
Saint Mary's freshman Rebecca Schiappa performs acoustic originals at the College's Student Center lounge Saturday night. Schiappa, along with two other bands, competed in a Battle of the Bands to raise money for Riley Hospital for Children. 
OFFBEAT 
Hawking:. Humans must colonize other planets 
LONDON -Humans must colonize planets in other solar systems traveling there using "Star Trek"­style propulsion or face extinction, renowned British cosmologist Stephen Hawking said Thursday. 
Referring to complex the­ories and the speed of light, Hawking, the wheel-chair bound Cambridge University physicist, told BBC radio that theoreticaJ advances could revolutionize the velocity of .space travel and make such colonies possi­ble. 
"Sooner or later disasters such as an asteroid collision or a nuclear war could wipe us all out." said Professor Hawking, who was crippled by a muscle disease at the age of 21 and who speaks through a computerized voice synthesizer. 
Swedes guard Christmas goat from vandals 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden ­For 40 years it has been torched, vandalized, had its legs cut off and even been run over by a ear. Rut otn­cials in the Swedish city of Gavle are guaranteeing that this year's giant straw Christmas goat -the vietim of Sweden's most violent yule tradition -will survive unscathed. 
The 43-foot-high goat-a centuries-old yule symbol that preceded Santa Claus as the bringer of gifts to Swedish homes -has been burned down 22 times since it was first set up in Gavle's square on Dec. 3, 1966. 
But for its 40th anniver­sary Sunday, officials think they have finally outsmarted the resourceful vandals by dousing the battered ram· with flame-resistant chemi­cals normally used on air­planes. 
ITZformation compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
0:: Ul 
%: 
~ 
Ul 
3: 
.... 
<t 
(.) 


....0 HIGH 28 HIGH 21 HIGH 34 HIGH 38 LOW 16 LOW 16 LOW 27 LOW 17 
the last midterm election." 
IN BRIEF 

A memorial mass will be held today for senior Caitlin Brann in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 5:15p.m. 
Jeff Jackson, the head coach of Notre Dame's hockey team, will discuss the first pa;t of the season and look forward to the remaining games at noon at Legends Wednesday. 
The Notre Dame's women's basketball team will play Purdue Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
All full-time faculty and staff are invited to a Christmas open house Thursday by University President Father John Jenkins and Officers of the University. The event lasts from 2:30 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. and will be held on the 2nd, 3rd and 4th floors of the Main Building. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will perform its Christmas Concert Friday from 9 p.m to 
10:30 in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $8, $6 facultv/staff, $5 sen­iors and $3 for all students. 
Christmas at the CoMo Benefit Concert by the ND Celebration Choir is Wednesday at 7:30p.m. in the first floor Coleman Morse stu­dent lounge. International stu­dents will provide reflections of Christmas in their home coun­tries. There is no admission charge, but a freewill offering will be sent to St. Jude's Primary School, Jinja, Uganda. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsTZews@nd. edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 



HIGH 26 26 LOW 16 23 
Atlanta 48 I 26 Boston 37 I 25 Chicago 28 113 Denver 451 24 Houston 55 I 34 Los Angeles 76 I 45 Minneapolis 21 I 6 New York 41 I 29 Philadelphia 39 I 27 Phoenix 71 I 44 Seattle 44 I 39 St. Louis 37 I 22 Tampa 67 I 47 Washington 37 I 26 
Monday, December 4, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND Air Force ROTC spreads holiday cheer 
Field Day benefits underprivileged children 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
A Field Day ushered in the Christmas season at Saint Mary's Saturday as underprivi­leged children visited with Santa Claus and watched per­formances by the Undertones and the Notre Dame Porn Squad Saturday at Angela Athletic Facility. 
Members of the Arnold Air Society {AAS). the service organization associated with Notre Dame Air Force ROTC, and the Silver Wings, the Arnold Air Society's civilian counterpart, hosted the event. 
Notre Dame junior Christine Rini, the organizer of the event and an AAS member, said the children came from various "centers" in the area. 
"Some were from low-income families that go to after school programs," Rini said. "Others were from homeless shelters, and some came from emotion­ally disturbed families.'" 
Volunteers from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's assisted chil­dren with making gingerbread houses, decorating cookies, painting faces and making Popsicle stick reindeer. 
The children had the opportu­nity to take their picture with Santa and then his elves hand­ed out presents, Rini ~aid. The presents the children received came from the Marine Corps' Toys for Tots program. The AAS paid for everything else, includ­ing pizza, supplies and trans­portation. They hired a charter bus to transport children to and from the facility. 
Rini said the Field Day had been in existence for approxi­mately the past five years, but said this is only the second year the event was held in Angela Athletic Facility. 
In the past, the Field Day was held at the Armory, but Rini said the distance from campus was a problem in getting volun­teers from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
"This location is excellent because the basketball court is a relatively closed-off area and it's easier to get volunteers to come out [to help us]." Rini said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO I @saintmarys.edu 

Professor vvrites book on St. Nick 
Story traces modern versions of Santa Claus to medieval roots 
Special to The Observer 

"Saint Nicholas in America: Christmas Holy Day and Holiday," by Rev. Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C., professor emeri­tus in the Program of Liberal Studies at Notre Dame, was recently published by Corby Books. 
The book makes use of ancient and medieval sources as well as more modern and widely familiar poems, sketches and stories to bring Saint Nicholas into sharper focus while avoiding the quarrel of secular and reli­gious holiday makers. "Christ in Christmas," says Father Ayo, "is rooted in every child's memories of an astonishing intervention of love in their life, found, of all places, in their stockings.'' 
It may be difficult to dis­cern in the heroic and daunt­
"ing figure of the fourth cen­tury Bishop of Myra, the "jolly old elf" of Clement Clarke Moore's endearing and sentimental "Twas the Night Before Christmas" poem. The saint whose feast the Catholic Church cele­brates on Dec. 6 may well have been such a pleasantly avuncular gentleman, but he is also remembered as a powerful leader who rescued many young women from sexual slavery, intimidated vengeful emperors, came between the executioner's axe and the neck of a con­demned prisoner, plucked despairing seafarers from perfect storms, and over­whelmed a threatened famine with a miraculous abundance of grain. 
Writing of these older and more stirring accounts of his patron saint, Father Ayo remarks that "it does not take much imagination to wonder if the Santa Claus, who descends upon our roof, or the comic book superman, who swoops down upon our city, owe some of their inspi­ration and the cut of their figure to the original aerial wonder.-worker, good Saint Nicholas." 
He also insists that these older storie.s are far more than hyperbolic folk tales. In recalling the story which inspired Gentile da Fabriano's 15th century painting, "Saint Nicholas Saves a Ship from Sinking," Father Ayo observes that "here is prayer tested and grace pledged whatever the trial. The presence of the Church in Bishop Saint Nicholas overcomes the sink­ing feeling that human life is doomed and we are about to perish in the vicissitudes of history or the personal disas­ters of our lifetime without rescue from a saving God." 
High praise for the book came in an early review by University President Emeritus Father Edward Malloy, who recommended its "marvelous blend of scholar­ship and effective narration," adding that Father Ayo "has traced the stories connected to good Saint Nicholas {gen­erous spirit and miracle worker) with the develop­ment in the cultural context of secular America of the Christmas season tradition of jolliness and gift-giving for which Santa Claus is the most popular carrying image.'' 
Undoubtedly, the infectious joy of this plump, ebullient and snowy-bearded saint dis­guises the deadly serious mission he comes to accom­plish, but of course the same could be said of the adorable Baby whose birth he so con­spicuously assists us in cele­brating. 


Monday, December 4, 2006 
page 4 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

A MEMORIAL MASS 




FORCAITLIN BRANN 
MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2006, 5:15 PM 
BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 

CAITLIN M. BRANN 
OCTOBE~R 30, 1984-NOVEMBER 10. 2006 

ORLD & NATION 
Monday, December 4, 2006 CoMrn.Eo FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVlCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
One dead in Islamic religious clash 
BEIRUT -Violent clashes broke out Sunday between Shiite and Sunni Muslims in the capital, leaving one man dead from gun­shot wounds and 21 others injured at a time when tensions throughout Lebanon threaten the country's fragile sectarian and political balance. 
Tension has been running high in Lebanon, particularly since Friday when Hezbollah supporters began an open-ended sit-in in Beirut in an effort to bring down the govern­ment of Prime Minister Fuad Saniora. 
Saniora, emboldened by Arab and interna­tional support for his U.S.-backed govern­ment, vowed on Sunday to stay in office despite the ongoing protests. 
Amid the sound of revolutionary and nationalist songs blaring from protesters' tents set up in the heart of Beirut, a Mass was held at Saniora's office in memory of Industry Minister Pierre Gemayel, who was assassinated by gunmen in a Beirut suburb last month. 
Chavez anticipates election victory 
CARACAS -President Hugo Chavez sought another six-year term Sunday in an election that weighed the popularity of his oil-funded hand­outs to the poor against fears of increasingly authoritarian rule by one of the Bush adminis­tration's most outspoken overseas opponents. 
Chavez anticipated a crushing victory over tough-talking political veteran Manuel Rosales who has galvanized the opposition by promising to unseat a man he accuses of edging the coun­try toward totalitarianism. 
Voters waited for hours in snaking lines, and elections officials predicted a record turnout. An independent AP-Ipsos poll last month gave Chavez a double-digit advantage. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Bush: Changes, troops needed in Iraq 
WASHINGTON -While President Bush acknowledges the need for major changes in Iraq, he will not use this week's Iraq Study Group report as political cover for bringing troops home, his national security adviser said Sunday. 
"We have not failed in Iraq," Stephen Hadley said as he made the talk show rounds. "We will fail in Iraq ifwe pull out our troops before we're in a position to help the Iraqis succeed." 
But he added: "The president understands that we need to have a way forward in Iraq that is more successful." 
The White House readied for an important week in the debate over Iraq: Bush planned a meeting Monday with Abdul-Aziz al-Hakim, the Shiite leader of the largest bloc in Iraq's parlia­ment, and awaited the recommendations Wednesday from the bipartisan commission. 

Power loss intensifies storm damage 
ST. LOUIS -The temperature barely rose into the 20s Sunday as hundreds of thousands waited for their electricity to be restored after it was knocked out in a devastating snow storm. 
Tawana Jean Cooper and her family spent Sunday at a Red Cross warming center in St. Louis, which they reached a day earlier from her suburban home after roads were cleared of ice, downed power lines and broken tree Limbs. 
"They know this is not home. They know this is a disaster," Cooper said as she cradled her 5­month-old granddaughter in her arms. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Prison guard charged with sex crime 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. -A female former cor­rections officer has been charged with felony sexual misconduct after police say she had sex with a 16-year-old male inmate at the Northeast Juvenile Correctional Facility. 
A judge on Friday entered a not guilty plea for Margaret A. Wiley, 27, who was fired from the facility in October. Wiley has been charged with felony sexual misconduct and a misde­meanor count of trafficking with an inmate. 
Wiley was released from jail on a $3,250 bond and was ordered not to contact the boy. Wiley faces up to four years in prison if she is convicted of the charges. 
Hopefuls prepare for 2008 bid 
Sens. Clinton, Bayh step-up exploratory efforts for White House candidacy 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton met on Sunday with New York's Democratic governor-elect to solicit his support for her likely White House bid, the latest indication she is step­ping up plans to join a growing field of potential contenders for 2008. 
One rival, Indiana Sen. Evan Bayh, announced Sunday he was establishing an exploratory committee to raise money for a possible presidential run. He expects to decide over the Christmas holidays whether to seek his party's nomination. 
A top aide to Clinton said he did not know when the former first lady would decide about pursuing the presidency or set up an exploratory committee. Clinton aides, however, have begun interviewing possible campaign staffers in recent weeks, Howard Wolfson said. 
Clinton, who long has topped national polls of Democratic hopefuls, spent two hours with Gov.-elect Eliot Spitzer at his Manhattan home. 
"We just had a great, .wide-ranging meeting on so many issues that affect the city, the state and the coun­try," Clinton said as she left the meeting. 
Last week she contacted added, "I think she'd make nomination process, the huge crowds around the leading state lawmakers, a very good president but presidential jockeying has country, promoting his best­including Democratic Reps. let's wait and see. intensified in both parties. selling book, "The Audacity Charles Rangel and Nita Everyone's sort of jumping Iowa Gov. Tom Vilsack of Hope." Lowey, and the state party the gun." announced his bid for the He met with aides in chairman, Denny Farrell, to Wolfson told The Democratic nod last week; Chicago last week and they assess her prospects and Associated Press that Bayh is taking the initial expect him to disclose his seek their support. Clinton "is reaching out to steps; and others, such as intentions about a 2008 run 
Clinton's Senate colleague, her colleagues in the New the party's 2004 ticket of in a matter of weeks. Chuck Schumer, told York delegation and asking Massachusetts Sen. John On the Republican side, reporters Sunday that for their advice and counsel Kerry and former North Sen. John McCain of Clinton had called him to and their support if she Carolina Sen. John Arizona and former New arrange a meeting next decides to make a run." Edwards, are weighing pos­York Mayor Rudy Giuliani week. But he was coy about Clinton easily won re-elec­sible runs. have established explorato­the purpose of the get­tion last month to a second The effort comes as ry committees; so, too, has together. term in the Senate. Wolfson Illinois Sen. Barack Obama, long-shot candidate Rep. 
"She wants to sit down noted that Clinton long has a rising star in Democratic Duncan Hunter of and talk next week, which said she would begin active­politics, enjoys a wave of California. Massachusetts we're going to do. It could ly considering a presidential publicity and momentum Gov. Mitt Romney is moving be about legislation. I have bid after that election. "That around a possible White toward a possible bid and no idea what it's about, and process has begun," House bid. Kansas Sen. Sam Brown­until we sit down and talk Wolfson said. Obama, a clear challenger back is expected to that's all I'm going to say Thirteen months before to Clinton's front-runner announce soon about his about it," said Schumer. He the first votes are cast in the status, has appeared before intentions. 

CHILE 


Pinochet to face rocky recovery 
needed after an angioplasty performed appear." He said an accumulation of
Associated Press in the morning to clear a heart artery fluid in Pinochet's lungs "was a sec­SANTIAGO Gen. Augusto obstruction "allowed improvement in ondary problem that has been solved." Pinochet, whose 17-year dictatorship his condition." Earlier Pinochet's younger son, carried out thousands of political "No bypass has been performed and Marco Antonio Pinochet, said his killings and widespread torture, was we expect no open heart surgery will father had been "virtually rescued fighting for his life in a Chilean hospi­be necessary," Vergara said on Sunday from death" with the angioplasty. The tal Sunday after suffering a heart afternoon, explaining that such sur­former leader's spokesman, retired attack. But doctors said his condition gery was extremely risky for someone Gen. Guillermo Garin, said last rites was improving after an emergency of Pinochet's age. had been administered. procedure to restore blood flow to his "There is a trend toward improve­"We are now in the hands of God heart. ment," he said. "He is conscious, he and of the doctors. My father is in very Doctors initially said they planned communicates with us and with his bad condition," the son said at Gen. bypass surgery Sunday on the 91-family." Luis Felipe Brieba Military Hospital. year-old former strongman but they But Vergara made clear Pinochet's Vergara said earlier in the day that later ruled it out. Dr. Juan Ignacio condition continues to be serious "and the heart attack was "indeed life Vergara, a member of the team treat­the next 24 to 48 hours will be critical threatening," especially because of ing Pinochet, said the surgery was not to see whether other complications Pinochet's age. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, December 4, 2006 
Orleans when LSU has played Gainesville to Florida. Notre the Wolverines remained No. game than Michigan. occasional home games at the Dame's losses were a 47-21 2 in the two human polls that . "I felt like the winner of the
Bowl 

Superdome overcame con­defeat at home to No. 3 are a part of the BCS formula. SEC conference with one loss continued from page 1 cerns about the possibility of Michigan and a 44-24 loss in But after Southern California should have the opportunity to 
few LSU fans booking hotels Los Angeles to No. 5 USC. beat Notre Dame last week, play in the national champi­
for the game. "We're very, very excited to the Trojans jumped Michigan onship game," Miles said. half, but we are really excited "I think everybody close to be traveling to New Orleans and took a slight lead for No. The other non-title BCS to bring the Sugar Bowl back the program is certainly glad and, especially, 2. When USC lost games pit USC against to its hometown," Hoolahan to see us playing in New to be facing an Saturday to intra­Michigan in the Rose Bowl, said. "What better way to Orleans," LSU coach Les Miles opponent the city rival UCLA No. 6 Louisville versus No. 14
''I'd like to
bring it back than with two said. "We really enjoy that quality of LSU," Saturday and Wake Forest in the Orange
congratulate Coach
teams of the quality of LSU city. It's a wonderful place and Weis said. Florida beat then­Bowl and No. 8 Boise State and Notre Dame.... The two we can hardly wait to get For Notre Weis on having a No. 9 Arkansas in against No. 10 Oklahoma in of these teams together in there." Dame, the selec­the SEC title the Fiesta Bowl. Wake Forest
great year and a
New Orleans is just what the Hoolahan said the Irish had tion marks the game, the Gators earned an automatic entry
tremendously
doctor ordered. This is an their own set of benefits, and second consecu­leapfrogged both into the Orange Bowl by win­absolute panacea for what's those were not limited to tive season the quality team. , • UCLA and ning the Atlantic Coast happened here, where we Notre Dame's ability to attract Irish will play in Michigan in the Conference title game need to go and what has to fans and generate high televi­a BCS game. human polls to Saturday. Oklahoma won the
Les Miles
happen in the future. It's a sion ratings. Hoolahan said Notre Dame earn their bid in Big XII's spot in the Fiesta

LSU coach
godsend." Notre Dame's unique position played Ohio the BCS National Bowl by winning its confer­Last season's Sugar Bowl in the BCS, with athletic direc­State in the Championship ence championship game was relocated to Atlanta. tor Kevin White the only Fiesta Bowl in Game. Saturday, also. 
Hoolahan said past Sugar member of the BCS' board of Tempe, Ariz., to conclude last Even Weis -whose squad Louisville earned an auto­Bowls averaged around $150 managers to be a representa­season. lost by 26 to the Wolverines -matic berth into a BCS game million in economic impact for tive of one university, is a LSU last played in the Sugar and Miles -who is a by winning the Big East. the New Orleans area, and major bonus for the Irish Bowl in 2003 against Michigan graduate -had dif­Undefeated Boise State of the past games with national when the BCS bowls make Oklahoma when the Tigers ferent opinions on who should Western Athletic Conference championship their selections. topped the Sooners in the BCS go. used a provision of BCS by­implications "The fact that title game. Notre Dame and Weis said because the laws intended to protect brought up to he is seated at the LSU have met nine times, with Wolverines "beat us soundly teams from smaller confer­
"To be able to pick
$250 million to table and directly a 5-4 series lead for the Irish. at home," he felt it was "the ences to snag an automatic the city. LSU in their home negotiating for The last meeting between the right thing to do" by voting spot by finishing in the top-12 Throughout the state for their local Notre Dame teams was in 1998, with the them No. 2 over Florida. Miles of the BCS standings. teleconference, makes a huge dif­Irish topping the Tigers 39-36 said he wrestled over the
flavor matched up 
Irish coach ference ... from on Senior Day at Notre Dame options and went with the Contact Ken Fowler at Charlie Weis with Notre Dame the standpoint of Stadium. Gators, who played one more kfowler 1 @nd.edu repeated his for its national just representing While the Tigers have had happiness that one entity," more success in recent years,
flavor, I think this 
the Sugar Bowl Hoolahan said. Miles praised the Irish. citing will host an is a perfect setup. '' "It's a great trib­Notre Dame's ability to move attractive ute to the school the ball through the air and matchup for the that they have its "attitude" on defense.

Charlie Weis 
rebuilding that one person ''I'd like to congratulate

Irish coach 
Crescent City. at the table." Coach Weis on having a great 
"We're just The other mem-year and a tremendously delighted to be bers are the 11 quality team," Miles said in coming to New Orleans," Weis Division I-A conference com­the teleconference. said. "To be able to pick LSU missioners and the represen­While all sides expressed in their home state for their tatives of the four traditional satisfaction in the matchup, local flavor matched up with bowl games in the BCS. the BCS shakeup that led to Notre Dame for its national Both the Tigers (No. 4 in the the LSU-Notre Dame pairing flavor, I think this is a perfect BCS standings) and Irish (No. was not without controversy. setup." 11) finished 10-2 with their Michigan finished its season 
Hoolahan said the propensi­losses coming to top-10 teams. Nov. 18 with a 3-point loss to ty for Tiger fans to visit LSU lost 7-3 at No. 9 Auburn unanimous No. 1 Ohio State restaurants and shops in New Sept. 16 and 23-10 in on the road. After that game, 


Health 
continued from page 1 
environment. 
"The way it's positioned, it's going to be much easier for stu­dents to receive services," she said. 
University Health Services plans to use the renovated build­ing for both updated and new health programs. It will house physical therapy services run through an independent vendor for students and staff. The South Bend Medical Foundation will also extend its hours when the new building opens. 
Kleva said the renovation was undertaken at this time because the old building -built in 1935 for the cost of $295,000 -had not undergone any major reno­vations since its original con­struction and that it needed to be made more modern than its 1930s design. 

"The [old] building was com­St. Liam llall, after St. Liam of pletely gutted, the walls, every­York. The name was chosen to thing," Kleva said. also honor Warren's father, 
She said only a few parts of the William Warren, Sr., since Liam original building, like the exteri­is the English nickname for or walls, the main-William. stay supports and Kleva said the old the original terraz­"The way it's Security building zo surfaces on the positioned, it's provided an ideal stairways were left. space and was
going to be much 

The bottom of the practical for Health
easier for as
chimney from the Services an boiler house origi­students to interim home. It nally built on the was actually an
receive services. 

site also remained, improvement over Kleva said. the former building, 
"Other than Ann Kleva she said, but the [those] the whole director newly renovated St. building is brand Liam Hall will be a
Health Services 

new [including] the much better loca­electrical, the tion than the cur­plumbing [and] the heating," she rent location. said. Health Services will start its 
The William K. Warren move into St. Liam Dec. 16, and Foundation funded the renova­will be open for students Jan. 15, tion. William K. Warren, a Class the beginning of spring semester. of 1956 alumnus, is a member of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees. Contact Ryan Sydlik at 
The building will be renamed rsydlik@nd.edu 




Bands 
continued from page 1 
song "Another Day" and their covers of other bands. 
Harper's Valley, a band made of Notre Dame students Will Weicher. Chris Terschluse, Chris Urban, Jim Weicher, Hob Mineo and Chris Doolin played several song~. including "Hard to Hide," as well as a cover of a Dave Matthews Band song. 
Saxophones, violins, bass 

and drums made up its set. 
"They can play their instru­ments," freshman Laura Mullen said. "I like it a lot." 
Sophomore Katie Fenner thought that they were good as well. She said she liked their incorporation of saxo­phone and violin. 
"You don't see that a lot in college bands," Fenner said. "They're original." 
Saint Mary's freshman Rebecca Schiappa performed several acoustic originals like "Sweet and Sour Pork" and "Goodbye," a song she wrote for her sister when she left for college. 
Katius members were impressed by II arper's Valley's performance and said they were surprised to win first place. 
Originally four bands were expected, but a member of Solus and Sola jammed his finger and the band backed out about an hour before show time. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Monday, December 4, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP Stocks 
Dow 

12,194.13 -27.80
}ones 

Up: Same: Down: CDmposite Volume: 2,52 7 139 1,750 2,828,932,900 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  -0.86  -0.38  43.66  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -2.17  -0.47  20.93  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -0.55  -0.03  5.39  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.82  -0.24  29.12  
Treasuries  
I 0-YEAR NOTE  -0.74  -0.033  4.425  
13-WEEK BILL  0.00  0.000  4.890  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.44  -0.020  4.541  
5-YEARNOTE  -1.40  -0.062  4.380  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.30  63.43  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -2.30  650.60  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.45  91.98  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  115.2700  
EURO  0.7495  
POUND  0.5048  
CANADIAN$  1.1437  

IN BRIEF 

Calderon confronts wealth disparity 
MEXICO CITY -As a man who touts creating jobs as the cure-all for Mexico's ills, President­elect Felipe Calderon couldn't be taking office at a better time. 
The economy is projected to expand by as much as 4.8 percent by year's end -its fastest growth in six years -thanks to exploding busi­ness in the construction, automobile and service industries. High oil prices have poured money into government coffers, the peso has remained stable and Mexico is on track to create 1 million jobs this year. 
That makes things much easier for Calderon, who took office Friday promising to build an economy that creates enough jobs so that mil­lions of Mexicans don't have to cross into the United States. 
"Mexico has all it needs to be a country that receives investment and generates employment for its people," Calderon said, voicing optimism in his inaugural address as president. 
The vast divide between rich and poor has fed the social tensions that have rippled across Mexico since Calderon won the July 2 election by less than 1 percent. 

Niche citrus industry still reeling 
JESUIT BEND, La. -Last year's hurricanes flooded Ben Becnel Sr.'s citrus groves with salt­water, thrashed three of his greenhouses and workers' quarters and destroyed or otherwise damaged hundreds of orange trees. 
And he was one of the lucky ones. 

Further south in Plaquemines Parish, Katrina and Rita laid waste to entire communities, destroying houses and livelihoods and threaten­ing the future of the state's prized, niche citrus industry. 
"We've lost a lot before," with hurricanes and freezing temperatures killing trees, if not groves, agricultural agent Alan Vaughn said. But this is different, he said: "With freezes, you could go back and plant trees. Now, the grove is the low man on the list, when you have to rebuild your house." 
With harvest under way and the parish's week­end-long orange festival set to begin Friday, farmers like Becnel, with navel oranges and sat­suma mandarins to sell, are trying to fill strong demand, while older producers such as 73-year­old Gerald Ragas are struggling to start over. 


Pfizer reacts to rising pressure 
Company plans to slash staffafter ending development of key cholesterol drug 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Pfizer Inc. will likely slash staff and accelerate merger and licensing deals as the pres­sure on it to improve its financial performance inten­sified after the weekend's announcement that the company ended develop­ment of a key drug, analysts said. 
Analysts differed on how much they believed Pfizer stock would fall when it opened on Monday. Barbara Ryan, an analyst at Deutsche Bank, said she believed the dividend yield of roughly 4 percent would keep shares from a free fall, but another analyst estimat­ed the stock could plunge to $20 a share. Pfizer shares closed Friday at $27.86 on the· New York Stock Exchange. 
The world's largest drug­maker said Saturday that an independent board monitor­ing a study for cholesterol treatment torcetrapib rec­ommended that the work end because of an unexpect­ed number of deaths. 
The news is devastating to Pfizer, which had been counting on the drug to revi­talize stagnant sales that have been hurt by numerous patent expirations on key products. It has said it was spending around $800 mil­lion to develop· torcetrapib, annually between 2005 and dent Research, doesn't think trapib. which was supposed to fill 2007. the yield will be enough to Ryan and Napodano both the void when its best-selling In the statement Pfizer prop up the shares. He expect rfizer to act swiftly to drug, cholesterol treatment issued Saturday, CEO Jeff points out that at the end of bring new products into the Lipitor, loses patent protec­Kindler said the company's last month, Pfizer pulled out fold, either through acquisi­tion in either 2010 or 2011. pace of transformation will of its deal with drugmaker tion or licensing. But Lipitor sales totaled $12.2 be expedited because of the Organon to develop schizo­Napodano said that until billion last year. loss of torcetrapib although phrenia treatment asenap­investors see what those 
"This is obviously unfortu­he didn't give any specifics. ine. Napodano said he products are, he sees little nate because this was the Last week, Pfizer announced expected that drug to add reason to buy the stock. He biggest opportunity in their it was cutting 20 percent, or $500 million in sales by said he intends to review his pipeline," said Ryan. 2,200 jobs, of its U.S. sales 2010 while by that time "hold" rating on the stock. "Clearly there is more pres­force. torcetrapib's sales would Torcetrapib was designed sure on them to do cost cut­Ryan said Pfizer may lay total $3 billion. to raise levels of HDL, or ting." off as many 10,000 people in "Losing asenapine was a what's commonly known as 
Two months ago, Pfizer near future. Pfizer employs hole in the boat. Now they good cholesterol. Pfizer has said it would detail plans in roughly 100,000 people. have hit an iceberg," said two other products in early January to turn the compa­Ryan added that she expects Napodano. development to raise HDL, ny into a more nimble Pfizer to hike its annual divi­Pfizer reiterated it hopes using the same method as organization that would go dend from 96 cents to $1.10 to introduce six new prod­torcetrapib. It is too soon say beyond the program an­per share in the next few ucts to the market by 2010, where they will be affected nounced last year to cut $4 weeks in the hopes of put­but Napodano said its by the compound's demise billion in expenses by 2008. ting a floor on the stock. pipeline just doesn't have because it still unclear what Patent expirations will cost But Jason Napodano, an another drug which offers caused the patient deaths in the company $14 billion analyst at Zacks Indepen-the sales potential of torce-the trial. 

Stocks dip as manufacturing slows 
Associated Press seen by some on Wall Street as possi­since the 1960s. 
bly indicating that the Federal Reserve Leading the Big Board lower in 
NEW YORK -Wall Street stumbled might have overshot the mark in more volatile trading were shares of manu­
Friday after a key survey showed man­than two years of interest rate hikes facturers like 3M Co., Caterpillar Inc., 
ufacturing unexpectedly contracted in that ended in June. Wall Street had and United States Steel Corp. The Dow 
November for the first time in more been expecting the Fed would hold Jones industrial average fell 27.80, or 
than three years, stoking concerns that interest rates steady at its Dec. 12 0.23 percent, to 12,194.13. 
the economy won't be able to achieve a meeting, and now there is a growing Broader stock indicators also 
soft landing. The major indexes ended belief the central bank may soon cut declined. The Standard & Poor's 500 
the week with losses. rates because of economic weakness. index dropped 3.92, or 0.28 percent, to 
Stocks and the dollar were socked "This is just additional confirmation 1,396.71, and the Nasdaq composite 
after the Institute for Supply that the economy is not only slowing · index fell 18.56, or 0.76 percent, to 
Management said its index on manu­but quite possibly going into a reces­2,413.21. 
facturing fell to 49.5 from 51.2 in sion," said Hugh Moore, a partrier with The drop does not bode well as Wall 
October. Economists had been expect­investment firm Guerite Advisors. "It's Street hopes to finish the final month 
ing 51.5. Anything under 50 indicates not just the housing and auto industry of the year with double-digit growth. 
the manufacturing sector is contract­any longer, now we're finding out that The Dow is up 13.78 percent so far 
ing. manufacturing in general is slowing." this year, while the S&P 500 has 
The report, based on a survey of cor­Moore said an ISM number below 50 gained 11.89 percent and the Nasdaq 
porate purchasing managers, was has preceded every U.S. recession is up 9.43 percent. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, December 4, 2006 
with LeadND has been one of the best things about her time

Scholar 
continued from page 1 
"I don't think it really hit me until I called my brother, who's a freshman here (at Notre Dame). and was like 'Well, you can come visit me in England next year,"' Towle said. "It's just been kind of surreal." 
She said her application process wasn't an extremely long one; she found out the deadline for the scholarship was Sept. 1 as she was in the process of packing up boxes to go back to school at the end of the summer. 
She approached the applica­tion with the same energy and spirit that has enabled her to do so much with her time at Notre Dame: she said she dug through some boxes to find her computer and just got to work. 
"My first loves are Latin America and Africa," Towle said, and she hopes her study in England will contribute to her ultimate goal of working in international health. 
She said she is especially interested in studying HIV and AIDS in conflict-ridden areas and looking at healthcare for refugees and displaced popu­lations, "especially women's health." 
Towle said her passion for international health was sparked in high school after she traveled to La Paz, Bolivia as part of a medical mission trip with a team of doctors from Kansas, her home state. 
She said her dad, who was traveling as part of the mis­sion, told her that he thought it sounded like a wonderful opportunity and if she could fundraise the money for the trip, she should get on board. 

In Bolivia, she 'This is the effort Towle as she was said she watched instrumental in
and support ofso 
numerous recon­founding the 
many people and a
structive surger­Touching Tiny ies performed -sign ofhow Lives Foundation, "children with a non-profit with
awesome of a place
cleft lips and a mission of
Notre Dame is.,
horrible burn "ensuring the victims, for health and example." Meg Towle reclaiming the Towle came to dignity of children
senior

Notre Dame intending to major in pre-med, but decided 

• after freshman year to double major in anthropology and international peace studies. "I was more interested in the health of communities than of individuals," she said. An honors student, Towle has earned a spot on the Dean's List every semester. She was also named one of only 20 Presidential Scholars at Notre Dame when she was a freshman. According to Notre Dame's Office of News and Information, the Presidential Scholars are "recognized as top academic students and potential leaders" in the Notre Dame community. Outside of the classroom, Towle's activism in interna­tional health issues and com­munity education and empow­erment has been evident. During her freshman year, Towle and fellow classmate Steve Cartwright founded LeadND, a program that pro­motes leadership development and service learning among local middle school students. Now in four local schools, LeadND relies on a large num­ber of "wonderful volunteers" from Notre Dame and mem­bers of the local community who have supported the vision of the program, she said. 
Towle said being involved 
at Notre Dame. 
"It's been like a full-time job for me these past few years," Towle said. 
She and Cartwright joke "that we are the grandma and grandpa of the program ... we are currently in the process of transitioning the leadership," she said. 
Other formative experiences during her undergraduate career include time spent studying abroad in Mexico last spring and researching and working in the African nation of Lesotho last summer, Towle said. 
While in Mexico, Towle taught global health to middle school students and did a research project on how glob­alization has affected HIV I AIDS in Mexico, especially the migrant population, she said. 
During her time in Lesotho, she did research on communi­ty-based health and worked at Touching Tiny Lives (TTL), a child's safe home and HIV I AIDS outreach program found­ed by a Notre Dame graduate impacted by his Peace Corps service there, Towle said. 
"TTL is not an orphanage; the whole goal of the program is to re-unify (children with their families)," she said. 
She said she was especially interested in exploring how transmission of HIV from mother to child might be pre­vented. . 
Towle said that a UROP grant enabled her to employ the help of a translator while in Lesotho to aid her in her research. She said that her translator allowed her to "learn so much more by cut­ting down on the language barrier." 
Conducting research in 
Lesotho was espe­
cially exciting for 


2007-2008 Assistant Rector Applications 
for 

Undergraduate Residence Halls and Fischer O'Hara-Grace Graduate Residences are now available 
Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building 
For more information call the 
Office of Student Affairs at 631-6144 
or go to 

http://osa.nd.edu for eligibility requirements and to download the application 
Completed applications must be submitted by February 16, 2007 
impacted by the HIVIAIDS pan­demic in Lesotho." 
Towle said the Foundation "does a lot of fundraising and there is a big effort in further­ing education about issues that affect Lesotho." 
Towle said she would love to see similar Foundations based on the Touching Tiny Lives model directed at supporting other countries. 
Despite all of her academic accomplishments and involve­ment in the local and interna­tional communities, Towle is humble about being chosen for a Marshall Scholarship. 
"This is the effort and sup­port of so many people and a sign of how awesome of a place Notre Dame is," Towle said. ''I'm thankful for that." 
Marshall Scholarships were established in 1953 by an Act of Parliament to enable future American leaders to study in the United Kingdom, to pro­mote an understanding and appreciation of Britain, to con­tribute to intellectual develop­ment in a variety of fields and to motivate scholars to serve as ambassadors from the United States to the United Kingdom and vice versa. 
Contact Meghan Wons at mwons@nd.edu 

------------~·----------­
Monday, December 4, 2006 
The Observer + NEWS 

er," Fitzgerald said. ''I'm almost coach was taxing. speechless . . . it means a lot to "Mid-season, [Fitzgerald] had
Aidan 

see people come out [for the us take a knee ... we all thought continued from page 1 cause]~ I know a lot of people it was going to be an inspira­here, but there are tional speech. The ballroom's walls were cov­also a lot of people Instead, we found
"/can't imagine
ered with posters providing sta­I don't know. It's out he had can­tistics about cancer mortality been full wall-to­going through this cer," she said. and -survival rates and the wall in here, which "Almost the whole
without all this 
importance of awareness. T­is so encouraging." team started to
support."
shirts were also sold to benefit Koors called the cry. Riley Hospital for Children, a turnout "exciting." "After he left, children's cancer center in "[The event] Aidan Fitzgerald we really missed Indianapolis. grew a lot from the sophomore his humor and 
More fleece arrived around 1 [Circle K] Blanket sarcasm and all p.m., so the final hour of the Bash last year," the positive things event was a fury of blanket­she said. he brought to the team.... I'm so making, which Fitzgerald said Teitgen said the organizers glad to see that so many people he was thrilled to witness. ordered double the supplies they came out to help this cause and 
Fitzgerald, who said he loves did last year, and "ran out ... support Aidan." Notre Dame football, was able to which was awesome." And Fitzgerald said he could­make it back for a few games "We did so much better than n't appreciate it more. earlier in the semester. He last year," Low said. "It's amaz­"I can't imagine going through helped coach the Cavanaugh ing to see this many people come this without all this support," he Interhall football team, and is a out and support the cause ... said. member of Knott's Inter hall foot­[that] hit so close to home." ball team. For freshman Erin Dolan, who 
"I didn't know what to expect played under Fitzgerald for the Contact Jennifer Metz at ... my roommate put this togeth-Chaos, the loss of a well-liked jmetz@nd.edu 

Storm creates havoc in Midvvest 
Associated Press lines, passengers were eventually 
CHICAGO -Some crews taken by bus to repaired downed power lines, their destinations. others swept debris from train Truck driver tracks and National Guardsmen David Huwe got went door-to-door checking on his 18-wheeler residents after the Midwest's first and load of frozen big snowstorm of the season. food back on the 
As temperatures fell below road Saturday freezing, officials warned after being stuck Saturday that some people could for more than 12 be without power for days. hours at a rest 
The storm was blamed for at stop near least 15 deaths as it spread ice Princeton, Ill., on and deep snow from Texas to Interstate 80, Michigan and then blew through which was blocked the Northeast late Friday and by scores of trucks early Saturday. Schools and busi­and cars that slid nesses were shuttered, and hun­off the icy high­dreds of travelers were stranded way. by canceled flights. "I was supposed 
Nearly 600 Amtrak passengers to be (in in Illinois and Missouri were California) Sunday delayed up to 10 hours Friday night," Huwe said by cell phone helped some of the stranded 1-80 and Saturday morning, Amtrak Saturday morning. He had travelers by ordering 100 spokesman Marc Magliari said. revised his arrival time and hoped McDonald's hamburgers, which With many tracks still strewn he'd make it by Monday. were airlifted by the National with downed trees and power Red Cross volunteers at Decatur Guard. 

page 9 


Nevv study questions fast food in hospitals 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Having fast­food restaurants in children's hospitals influences patients'­families to eat fast food and to think that it's relatively healthy, new research sug­gests. 
At least 59 of the nation's 250 children's hospitals have fast-food restaurants, the study found. That is a trou­bling phenomenon, particular­ly given rising obesity rates, said the study's lead author, Dr. Hannah Sahud, a pediatri­cian at Allegheny General Hospital in Pittsburgh. 
"We're giving two different messages by being in the health care profession and promoting health and saying obesity is a huge medical prob­lem ... and then implicitly encouraging it," she said. 
About 17 percent of U.S. children are considered obese and many doctors think heavy consumption of calorie-laden fatty fast food is partly to blame. 
Sahud conducted the research while at Chicago's Children's Memorial Hospital, which has one McDonald's inside and another across the street. 
Parents of children who got outpatient treatment at Children's Memorial were much more likely to buy McDonald's food on the day their youngsters were treated than parents of kids treated at Chicago-area hospitals without McDonald's, the study found. 
Parents Of kids treated at Children's also were twice as likely to rate McDonald's food as relatively healthy than those whose kids were treated else­where. 
"I was shocked ... that they actually perceive it to be healthier," Sahud said. 
Her study appears in December's Pediatrics, sched­uled for release Monday. 
"Hospitals should be walking the walk, not just talking the talk," said Dr. Sarah Barlow, an obesity specialist at Saint Louis University and Cardinal Glennon Children's Medical Cen.ter. She was not involved in the research. 
Children's Memorial spokes­woman Julie Pesch said the hospital chose McDonald's many years ago as a special treat for sick kids going through difficult treatment. 
Pesch said balanced diets can include an occasional fast­food meal, but acknowledged the study shows "doctors and families that we must continue to talk about what constitutes a healthy diet for kids." 
The researchers queried 200 pediatric residency programs ill 2002-03. About 30 percent, or 59, had fast-food restau­rants in their . hospitals. McDonald's alone or in combi­nation with other fast-food restaurants were located in 22. 
The researchers also sur­veyed 386 parents and other adults leaving three Chicago­area hospitals after their chil­dren had outpatient visits. They were Children's Memorial; Ronald McDonald Children's Hospital in Maywood, which uses McDonald's branding but has no McDonald's restaurant; and the University of Chicago's children's hospital, which has no McDonald's restaurant or branding on site. 

The study found that 56 per­cent of participants at Children's Memorial had fast food on the survey day,. com­pared with 29 percent at Ronald McDonald and 33 per­cent at the University of Chicago. Most at all three hos­pitals who had fast food that day chose McDonald's. 
McDonald's has restaurants in more than 30 U.S. hospitals, said spokesman Bill Whitman. 



Pediatricians criticize advertising targeted at children 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Inappropriate advertising contributes to many kids' ills, from obesity to anorexia, to drinking booze and having sex too soon, and Congress should crack down on it, the American Academy of Pediatrics says. 
The influential doctors' group issued a new policy statement in response to what it calls a rising tide of adver­tising aimed at children. The policy appears in December's Pediatrics, scheduled for release today. 
"Young people view more than 40,000 ads per year on television alone and increas­ingly are being exposed to advertising on the Internet, in magazines, and in schools," the policy says. 
Advertising examples cited in the statement include TV commercials for sugary break­fast cereals and high calorie snacks shown during chil­dren's programs and ads for Viagra and other erectile dys­function drugs shown during televised sports games. 
The statement also is critical of alcohol ads that feature cartoonish animal characters; fast-food ads on educational TV shown in schools; maga­zine ads with stick-thin mod­els and toy and other product "tie-ins" between popular movie characters and fast­food restaurants. 

These pervasive ads influ­ence kids to demand poor food choices, and to think drinking is cool, sex is a recreational activity and anorexia is fash­ionable, the academy says. 
Interactive digital TV, expected to arrive in a few years, will spread the prob­lem, allowing kids to click on­screen links to Web-based promotions, the new policy says. 
In response, the academy says doctors should ask Congress and federal agencies to: 
+ 
ban junk-food ads during shows geared toward young children; 

+ 
limit commercial advertis­ing to no more than 6 minutes per hour, a decrease of 50 percent;

+ 
restrict -alcohol ad.s to showing only the product, not cartoon characters or attrac­tive young women; 


+ prohibit interactive adver­tising to children on digital TV. 
The academy also says TV ads for erectile dysfunction drugs should be shown only after 10 p.m. 
Jeff Becker, president of the Beer Institute, an industry group for breweries, said par­ents have more influence than advertising on teens' decisions to drink. He also said brewers work to ensure that beer ads appear in adult-oriented media. For much of the sports programming where beer ads appear, most viewers are at least 21, Becker said. 
"The American Academy of Pediatrics is wrong to blame alcohol advertising for the actions of underage teens who willingly break the law to drink illegally," he said. 
Critics of advertising restric­tions say it's a free-speech issue. But the academy notes that several Western coun­tries, including Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Belgium and Greece, limit ads directed at children. 
"What kind of society exploits its children and teenagers for money? This is an example of where public 

health re(llly has to trump capitalism," said Dr. Victor Strasburger, lead author of the policy statement and an ado­lescent medicine specialist at the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque. 
Advertising aimed at chil­dren has come under increas­ing scrutiny in recent years, particularly because ofdata showing that growing num­bers of U.S. children -now about 17 percent-are obese. 
Spokespeople for Viacom, whose holdings include TV's Nickelodeon network and MTV, declined to offer immedi­ate comment on the report. Viacom has urged its market­ing partners to advertise healthier products, and is among media companies that have been involved in discus­sions with federal agencies and advocacy groups about advertisers marketing to chil­dren. 
While hard scientific data linking advertising with chil­dren's health ills is lacking, Strasburger said there's com­pelling circumstantial evi­dence suggesting there's a connection. 
Last year, the Institute of 
Medicine agreed that evidence suggesting that TV ads con­tribute to childhood obesity is compelling and said industry should market healthy foods to kids. 
And in September, the Federal Communications Commission said it will study potential links between TV ads and rising rates of obesity in 
U.S. children. The food industry has start­ed to respond. 
Two weeks ago, McDonald's joined nine major food and drink companies in vowing to promote more healthy foods and exercise in their child-ori­ented advertising. And last year Kraft Foods said it would curb ads to young children for snack foods including Oreos and Kool-Aid. 
Harvard psychologist Susan Linn, a co-founder of the Campaign for a Commercial­Free Childhood, praised the academy's policy and said it doesn't overstate the effects of advertising on children. 
''I'm hopeful that policymak­ers will listen," Linn said. Self­regulation in the food industry, without a nudge from govern­ment, won't work, she said. 

--~--~ ~ ----------~------------­
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 
Friday, December 4, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN .46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: JeffAlbert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly COI'ITROLI.ER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAl INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
ScENE DEsK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advenisemenrs based on conrenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conract information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiifMike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The OblR!rver (USPS 599 2-4000) is pubtisbt:d M<mday th.ftlugh FdOOy ~pt during exam and vacation .periods. A subscription ro The ObKrver is $100 for one academic year, $55 for one scma;ter. 
The Obstrvtr is: published at:. POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections ro: Notte Dame.-IN 46556.0779 Th<Dl=va Periodical postage paid ar Nou·-e Dame P.O. Box779 and addicimW mm.ling offices. 924 South Dining Half 
Nom: Dame., IN 465:%-0779 
The Observer is a membtr ofthe ~ted Press. All rq-troduaion righu Me ti:Sd'Vcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Kaitlynn Riely Kate Gales 
Laura Chris Hine Baumgartner Michael Bryan Steve Kerins Scene 
Joe Piarulli Cassie Belek Viewpoint Graphics Bethany Madeline Nies Whitfield 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Each Zahm resident unique 
I would like to compliment The Observer for running the two-part series of stories investigating some of the changes which have taken place in Zahm Hall over the past couple years. 
Before I attended Notre Dame, an aged alumnus told me, "The only thing better than going to Notre Dame is having graduated from Notre Dame!" And despite all of the illicit fun I had there as an undergrad, despite all of the playful jibe I received as a Zahm resident and despite all of the times I had to just stand in front of the Office of Residence Life and Housing and shake my head in bewilderment, I grew from the experience and now can enjoy the best part -being a Notre Dame graduate. 
Alums of Zahm or any other dorm gather and shoot the bull about how "wild" or "crazy" their college days were -right up to the often touted Regis Philbin. I recall his visit to campus clearly, when I was a freshman in Zahm in fall 2001, when, in front of all the lights and cameras, he barged into his former room, 222, jumped in the loft and told all those present what a "crazy" time he had in that room, breaking all the old, silly rules. 
People love to reminisce and tell stories about old tradi­tions or "how things used to be done," mostly because it's a way of reliving those moments without actually having to do them again. Here are two suggestions regarding "stories": 1) they are probably exaggerations, and 2) noth­ing in the present, in reality, can top those memories. 
So what does this mean for the current men of Zahm? Enjoy the elevated status which goes with being a resident in the House. Some will call it a "bad boy" or "whipping boy" image or claim that "it really worries the parents." If you actually believe those things, then you are taking col­lege, and the whole living situation at Notre Dame, way too seriously. Guys living with guys, girls living with girls -the two allegedly not enjoying each other and staying the night together-now that is a joke the rest of the young people in America laugh at (and are extremely puz­zled by, all the same). 

So if Zahm's image counters who you are, fight it; if it doesn't have anything to do with you, ignore it; if it is everything you think you want out of college, embrace it. My point is this: anyone who lives in, or has lived in, Zahm makes choices about who they want to become. Some try to destroy its image, and some have worked very hard to perpetuate it. 
To assume that every resident should align with one ide­ology and not be uniquely creative is outlandish. To force every resident to align with one ideology is not only repressive, but also counterproductive to the educational process. After reviewing The Observer's articles on the changes within Zahm Hall, it appears that the hall's administrative figure, the rector, believes that he should dictate its direction, like a surrogate parent. 
Perhaps what is misunderstood here is that the urge some of the men of Zahm feel to be fraternal, and at the same time be set apart from the typical Notre Dame com­munity, is a normal male attitude during formative years, as is the appeal of bucking authority. I know it exists, because I have been there. The last time I checked, though, college was supposed to be an educational experi­ence for the students, without all of the coddling mentali­ty. 
But that's the way it goes at Notre Dame. So love it'while you can, lead it where you will and leave it when you're ready (or get kicked off campus!). Either way, you will have enough stories to tell all of those freshmen when you are a senior, and hopefully half of them are true. 
And picture this, men of Zahm: life only gets better after you graduate from Notre Dame. 
Drew Updike alumnus Class of 2005 Dec. 1 

'Animal' term assessed 
Animal nature shouldn't be denied 
It may be in everyone's interest to take a step back from the debate sparked by Daniel Amiri's thought­provoking Letter to the Editor on human nature ("Encourage chasti­ty, not 'free talk,"' Nov. 21), and in true Catholic fashion treat it on a universal scale. 
That being established, and with all due respect to Pope John Paul II, I must assert that his words should be taken within the frame­work of Christian philosophy. If I may be so bold as to use a decided­ly non-religious source, I humbly submit this quote from Wikipedia.org for the consideration of all interested parties: "Humans, or human beings, are bipedal apes belonging to the mammalian species Homo sapiens (Latin for 'wise man' or 'knowing man') under the family Hominidae (known as the great apes)." 
My reflection upon this passage is that while we possess the mental capacity to reflect and improve upon our spiritual nature, we should not neither deny nor debase the animal nature we also possess. 
Nikki Huiras junior off campus Dec. I 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"By swallowing evil words unsaid, no one has ever harmed his stomach." 
Winston Churchill former prime minister Pope's words can be manipulated 

David Spellman ("We are not animals," Nov. 30) recently joined the debate sparked by Amiri ("Encourage chastity, not 'free talk,"' Nov. 21) and Renfro ("Stating the obvious?" Nov. 29) on the nature of mankind. While Spellman's point is certainly stated in most proper Catholic Doctrine, I must ask him this: if the late pope did in fact state that mankind are not, nor never will be animals 'while he [the pope] was most seriously ill and dis­abled in the exercise of his highest func­tion,' then could we not argue that he was very much out of position to make such a judgement, as he himself was bereft of his highest function, which I can only assume is another word for reason? 
But this is almost beside the point of my argument, which is that ifone wishes, one can quote from and extrapolate on the words of the pope in such a way as to make it seem that almost anything is true. For example, on Oct. 28, 1994, the pope made a statement to the Pontifical Academy of Sciences lauding research on the Human Genome. The pope, His Holiness John Paul II, said that it is "an accepted fact that for all living species including man, DNA is the vehicle for hereditary characteristics and their trans­mission to successive generations," the key words being "all living species, includ­ingman." 
Man, in other words, as said by the Holy Father, is a species. That he said this is 
fSubmitaletter
:~ .. .. •. ::·. • ,: ,:,. ,, .,...., ·:·. ..•, ·<·" ·:<·..<• • • :. ·>. >.. ·=· 
'to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
incontrovertibly true. Let us now turn to the Oxford English Dictionary, that bastion of our great mother tongue. According to the OED, a species is "A group or class of animals or plants (usually constituting a subdivision of a genus) having certain common and permanent characteristics which clearly distinguish it from other groups." A species is a group or class of animals or plants. 
If we apply that most chief among our human faculties, reason, we can see that if 
(1) mankind constitutes a species and (2) a species is a class of animal or plant, then mankind must he either animals or plants. We have already seen in the section above that mankind are either animal or plant. Considering the quote from the pope pro­vided by Spellman, namely that "a man, even ifseriously ill or disabled in the exer­cise of his highest functions, is and always will be a man, and he will never become a 'vegetable' or an 'animal,"' animals are eliminated and we are left with only one option for the nature of mankind: non-veg­etative plants. 
Neither a vertebrate nor an arachnid nor a cephalopod, neither a broccoloid nor a rutebegatine nor a tomatodate, mankind is left to the domain of sea algae and mushrooms. 
Chad l..avimoniere junior offcampus Dec. I 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Do what you can, with what you have, where you are." 
Theodore Roosevelt former president 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Monday, December 4, 2006 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Parents deserve tickets 
With respect to the new football three or four years ago when our ticket policies effective next season, football team was struggling to it is inexcusable that the University maintain a .500 record? Are the punish parents of students due to alumni only willing to support our the high demand of requested foot­team when the team has a chance ball tickets. Understandably, the to qualify for a BCS bowl? Parents alumni have a vested interest in our have always supported our team, university and its football program, have always proudly traveled to and as such, they deserve access to South Bend to watch the games and the games. That access, though, spend time with their children. The should not come at the expense of football team was always good parents who have been so support­enough for the parents. Surely the ive and faithful to our university new ticket policies cannot be a func­over the years. tion of passion for the team. 
Alumni are required to donate Biologically, our university would money to our university to be eligi­not even exist without parents. It ble for tickets, and it is difficult to goes without saying that no parents overlook this fact in the new ticket­equal no students, and no students ing policies. Alumni who donate a equal no university and no alumni. predetermined amount of money Certainly, the role of parents goes are eligible for tickets, and as more beyond the mere fiscal or passion demand indicates, more money arguments from above. from more alumni is being donated Consequently, any ticket allocation each year. Intuitively, it appears that method that affects the parents the university is replacing emptied seems unfounded and unfair. I chal­pockets with juicy football tickets. lenge Director of Ticket Operations 
However, I believe I can accurate­Josh Berlo, and those responsible ly speak for my peers when I say for this new ticket policy to create a that our parents are spending thou­system that does not inhibit the abil­sands of dollars funding our educa­ity to purchase tickets of parents tion at our university. Our parents simply due to high demand. Thank are making daily sacrifices to give you in advance for your time and us the best chance of success both thoughtful consideration. for now and the future. If money is the issue, than how can parents be Chris Mueller the ones who suffer from the new junior policies? Siegfried Hall 
Where was the alumni demand Nov. 30 
Band funding not so simple 
I truly hope tbat I am one of many people replying to Joe Anderson's Letter to the Editor ("Band overlooked," Nov. 29). This letter was a bla­tant insult to the band and I am truly disappointed that it came from one of the ushers, for whom I hold nothing but respect. 
Your letter was disrespectful of the planning and effort that goes into every single Notre Dame game that holds a band performance. Do you think that the band does not want to support our team at every game? If those are indeed your thoughts, you disregard the fact that we are part of the Band of the Fighting Irish. 
I must remind you that we have limited funds and a 380­.member band. This includes, as all those who traveled to USC can attest, airfare, hotel fees, transportation for large instruments and many, many more behind the scenes fees that few in the band, much less the general public, will ever know about. In order to travel to bowl games, some of the money from the bowl is set aside for the band. This is not the case for USC. 
My point is simply this: Robertson should not point fingers at a band who "should understand their responsibili­ty." We understand our responsibilities, and we are only human and need funds as well as the resources to undertake a trip as large as USC. This year we had, thanks to coach Charlie Weis, enough resources for 75 band mem­bers. Maybe in future years there will be more. Perhaps, in order to assist the band in traveling, Robertson would like to make a donation? 
LizWrape 
sophomore 
Lyons Hall 
Nov. 30 

Starbucks needs Fair Trade coffee 
While large coffee companies such as tity. It is Notre Dame's responsibility to Starbucks earn millions per day, coffee uphold its Catholic identity and be an bean farmers on the other hand, only example to other universities as well get paid pennies per pound of coffee as the larger community in all facets of beans. Not only are most people Catholic teaching. unaware of this large gap, but they are Secondly, Notre Dame currently owns also unaware of a group of products the Starbucks location on its campus, called Fair Trade that allows for some which happens to sell the most coffee evening of this large imbalance. Since products, but ironically does not have only a few people understand what Fair Trade coffee available. If Notre Fair Trade truly means, then an incen­Dame desires to be more socially tive to cause more awareness would be responsible, it needs to begin making the most logical approach to solving big changes, starting with the avail­such .a problem, especially in our Notre ability of Fair Trade products at the Dame community. one location that sells the most coffee. 
As one of the world's foremost Finally, spreading the understanding Catholic universities, Notre Dame of the benefits of Fair Trade coffee needs to lead by example of how a may result in alleviating poverty to group can move in a socially conscious some degree and increasing the quality way. The Student Senate wants to take of life for many individuals, their fami­social responsibility to the point of lies and the surrounding society. eliminating conventional coffee and Although many people detest the selling only Fair Trade coffee on cam­thought of increasing the price of their pus. I completely agree with this direc­already expensive lattes, they probably tion concerning Fair Trade coffee and would also agree that a few cents here the goals the Student Senate has set. and there can't hurt too much. And for 
First, Notre Dame's strong Catholic some, this extra spare change may identity calls the community to move in mean the difference between today a direction in accordance to Catholic and tomorrow. value. To support a business that is both selfish and morally wrong Jonathan Lee because it exploits coffee bean farmers freshman in order to gain more revenue would Keenan Hall go against Notre Dame's Catholic iden-Nov. 30 

True point lost in semantics 
I am writing regarding Alex Renfro's Letter to the Editor ("Stating the obvious?" Nov. 29) and Ryan Bravo's letter ("An attempt at reso­lution," Dec. 1) I write because of how dis­couraged I am that these individuals, who are presumably representative of others who agree with them, found it necessary to com­ment on Dan Amiri's assertion, in his well­written exhortation to the Catholic practice of chastity, that "we are not animals." 
We are mammals, which are a class of ver­tebrates, which are a phylum of animals. I congratulate those who have mastered the science of logic to such degree as to grasp the consequent implication. However, it also takes a "severe disconnect from reality" to think that Amiri's statement of the obvious -that we, unlike dogs, cats and birds, are capable of freely choosing how we act -somehow undermines his argument. 
The issue of contraception is one that does gravely need to be discussed, especially with respect for the Catholic understanding of the matter -one that is characteristically and wrongly dismissed, in the words of Joey Falco, as "putting on Bible Blinders" ("Disloyal fathers," Nov. 20). Though I disagree with Falco, I applaud both he and Amiri for taking the time to share their views; I am one who hopes that respectful and honest discussion ultimately leads to the truth. That issue aside, the debate about whether we can say "we are not animals" is an outrageous distr~ction from a subject of actual consequence. 
Indeed, the condescension implied in Renfro's and Bravo's comments is insulting. It suggests that people with intelligence could not possibly hold the view that human beings are different in significant ways from the rest of the animal kingdom. Bravo's comments resolved nothing; they merely reduced the level of dialogue to name-calling. To pull out a dictionary in this context indicates a severely hyper-inflated ego, as does introducing a let­ter with "I can't believe I'm writing this let­ter." Perhaps, then, it should not have been written. 
Both Renfro and Bravo knew exactly what was meant by Amiri's statement, and their subsequent need to patronize the rest of us with their "enlightened" views on what it means to be human is, in short, dishearten­ing . 
James Weicher senior Siegfried Hall Dec. 3 


Zahm should promote free thinking 
I am disappointed to hear of the shift toward a more encouraged those qualities. When your neighbors com­compliance (looked at the Notre Dame Bookstore catalog docile Zahm Hall. Somewhere in the early nineties, in monly run around naked, you are clearly and perhaps at lately?) with maturity and intellectual growth. If a univer­between various lewd and obscene acts, I found time to first unsettlingly in a realm that values self-expression. sity is to create leaders and free thinkers -and Zahm read some Nietzsche, who tells us that "the genuine And in such a realm, many of us unsurprisingly felt more unquestionably did that-it must encourage them to take philosopher lives 'un-philosophically' and 'unwisely,' free to voice our takes on the world, however blunt, risks, to be unwise, imprudent and, on occasion, publicly above all imprudently." The Zahm I knew enacted that unpopular, insightful, stupid or profane. This was a nude. . philosophy, which now appears to be repressed and/or delightful antidote to the polite, safe and unchallenging misunderstood. discussions that dominated some classes, then and now. Dr. C. Prescott Sobol 
Individuality, creativity, fearlessness and a willingness to Preventing dangerous behavior is one thing. But I hope alumnus question dominant values are qualities that I hope Notre that Zahm and the Notre Dame community do not enact a Class of 1994 Dame values. Zahm, as I experienced it, was a place that philosophical shift that confuses bland, polite, TV-friendly Dec.3 


THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 Monday, December 4, 2006 
CD REVIEWS 

Genuine Rice releases emotion-fill~d album 
Incubus explodes creatively with 'Light Grenades' 
By CHRIS McGRADY Scene Critic 
Perhaps there is such a thing as audio nicotine, and this album will have the lis­tener either smoking two packs a day or chewing enough Nicorette to choke a horse. Incubus' newest effort, "Light Grenades," is the type of CD that once it makes its way to a person's stereo, may stay there for months. This album doesn't simply ask to be listened to -it demands it. 
The members of Incubus compare their music to art. When lead singer Brandon Boyd was asked to describe his style of making and performing music, he said, "I am tapping into a place in you that is unex­plored, and very dangerous, but I think essential to the creative life of an artist." Incubus stays true to this form and contin­ues to push the proverbial musical enve­lope, never settling into one style of music for an entire album, not to mention an entire career. 
Rather than allow the band to slip into a on the album is going to be good. It

Incubus 

opens with the song "Quicksand," aLight Grenades 
vaguely electronic, enigmatic track thatSony features Boyd's voice synthesized as

&&&&,17 
if off in the distance. 
This song slowly 
fades into track two, 


····~~~ 
"A Kiss To Send Us

Recommended tracks: 'Dig,' 'Anna Molly,''Love 
orr," which quickly 

ups the energy and L-----------------------------------------------~ evokes tracks from 
Hurts' and 'Earth To Bella (Part I)' 

rut of "don't fix what's not broken," Incubus continues to change its sound, and has done so since its beginning. The band, orig­inally formed in 1991 (while the members were in lOth grade), consisted of Boyd, Mike Einsiger (guitar), Alex Katunich (a.k.a. Dirk Lance, bassist) and Jose Pasillas (drums). Later they added DJ Lyfe (Gavin Koppel). Since then, the only things that have changed are the presence of Katunich, who has since been replaced by Ben Kenney and the replacement of DJ Lyfe with DJ Kilmore (Chris Kilmore). 
For the first four years of its existenc:e, Incubus spent most of its time touring and slowly making a name for itself, honing a sound from the likenesses of the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Korn. and the Deftones. With the release of "Fungus Amongus," Incubus departed from the musical homogeneity of the pop-rock scene and found its own niche in a crowded genre. At times sound­ing like metal, at times like fluid pop and at other times funk. Incubus stretches its musical identities to the max, and "Light Grenades" proves this can be deftly done. 
It's evident early and intelligence.

By ANALISE LIPARI The album opens with the piano-cen-
Assistant Scene Editor 

tered "9 Crimes," recently heard on the 
Nov. 23 episode of "Grey's Anatomy." "9 
The 2003 film "Closer" introduced the Crimes" features Rice's faithful vocal mainstream American audience to bitter accompanist, Usa Hannigan, and the con­Irish balladeer Damien Hice through trast between their voices elevates the starkly lovely "The Blower's Daughter" off hauntingly somber tones of the song to a of his first album, "0." Three years later, higher level of beauty. Rice returns with "9," an album that The lyrics, which set the tone themati­builds on his raw. musically intimate style cally for the majority of "9," decry love's in its beautiful -but flawed -10 tracks. failings and frustrations. Lines such as 
Rice comes to music audiences in an the opening, "Leave me out with the age of male singer-songwriters who waste/ This is not what I dol It's the thrive on emotional rawness and the frus­wrong kind of place/ To be thinking of trations of love, albeit with a higher you," immediately engender feelings of degree of cheer than Hice ever exhibits on bitterness -feelings that the Rice of each "9" -but all the better for him. Unlike song is unable (or unwilling) to move singers such as James Blunt. Rice seems beyond. inherently more genuine, as he aptly "The words, while hardly ham-fisted, addresses the more difficult aspects of are in the same passive-aggressive emotion and love. Frustrated, tired, des­heartsick mode that Rice can't seem to perate or even vitriolic, Rice succeeds in shake," Noel Murray said in a recent creating an overall feeling of bleak reality, review with online publication The with his voice and arrangements better Onion's A.V. Club. serving his audience than a Top 40-bound The stagnancy of that bitterness, then, ditty from someone like Blunt or John is one of the main issues with "9." Several Mayer. Musically, Rice is more complex tracks devolve into somewhat excessive than his peers. and "9" reflects that effort explorations of Rice's being the wronged 
(or wronging) lover ,---------------;=============;] 
in . his relation­
ships.

Damien Rice 
In particular, "Rootless Tree,"
9 
with its expletive­heavy r,horus, is an
HeffaNector/Warner Bros. 
exercise in Hice's 
frustration that 
reaches a plateau 

of near annoyanc:e. L------------'1 Listeners can 
Recommended tracks: 'Dogs/'Coconut Skins,"Grey ac:cept a lot when
it comes to an Room' and 'Sleep Don't Weep' artist's anger and L------------------------~ unhappiness, but 

Damien Rice relies heavily on convention in his latest album, "9," but still produces a solid effort. Rice sings with raw emotion that is missing from the Top 40 today. 
the chorus's repetitive nature is altogeth­er unsettling, and in a way that detracts from Hice's aesthetic of lovelorn sullen­ness. 
"Me, My Yoke and I" functions in the same way. Normally, the raw quality of Hice's voice adds to the overall effed of his music. With this song in particular, the formerly deliciously desperate vocals become unnecessary whining. 
Hice characteristically expresses him­self throughout "9" with both whispers and yawps, as heard in particular in "Dogs," the album's fifth track. "Dogs" exemplifies Hice's ability to create an uncommon intimacy with his listeners, and the closeness of his feelings and expressions benefit "9" as a whole. 
Other strengths of the album include "Coconut Skins," with its wryly dirty lyrics and welcome acoustic guitar, and "Grey Room," which returns triumphantly to Rice's earlier musings on love's disap­pointments. These two tracks depart musically from others like "Me, My Yoke and I" and use Hice's talents to emphasize his overall themes. "Accidental Babies" is also a highlight, with its seemingly asi­nine series of questions that ultimately create a sense ofloss and longing. 
"9" is an album ridden with its own troubles. But its strengths, which stem from the appeal of Hice's raw earnest­ness, override its frustrating weaknesses. By the peacefully lengthy final track, "Sleep Don't Weep," Rice has drawn in his willing listeners with intoxicating tales of bitter loss, and with that. he succeeds. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 

courtesy In "Ught Grenades," Incubus transcends genre dMsions and creates an album in leagUe with The Killers and the Red Hot Chili Peppers. "Grenades" is the band's sixth studio album. 
early in Incubus' career. The next song, "Dig," is one of the most addictive on the album and begs to be put on repeat. Don't be surprised to see this song released as a single and climb up both the Alt-Rock and Pop billboards. 
Coming on the third track, "Anna Molly," is a sound reminiscent of songs from Incubus' previous work "A Crow Left of the Murder," and it showcases Boyd's vocal abilities as well as the musical capabilities of' the other members of the band. Other album highlights include "Love Hurts." a semi-romantic ballad, and "Earth To Bella (Part I)" and "Earth To Bella (Part II)." Both parls of "Earth To Bella" successfully blend acoustic strumming and electric rock guitar to a David-esque perfection, proving artistry extends beyond the realm of sculp­ture and paint and right into the genre of music. 
The diversity of sound and the talent of Incubus gives "Light Grenades" a fighting chance for album of the year. and can easi­ly be considered in the same breath as "Sam's Town" by The Killers and "Stadium Arcadium" by the Red Hot Chili Peppers. The tracks are addictive, intriguing, cut­ting-edge and beautiful. Incubus has done it again -providing an albwn that will never fall into the depths of auditory anonymity. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl@nd.edu 

-------------------------------------------------. 







NSIDER 


OTHE 

Monday, December 4, 2006 BSERVER North Carolina 2, Notre Dame 1 
A step behind 
Late rallyfalls short, Irish lose to Tar Heels 2-1 in NCAA finals 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate SportS Editor 
CARY, N.C. -After 26 games, Notre Dame finally met its match. North Carolina dominated the previously unbeaten Irish for most of the game en route to a 2­1 victory and a National Championship Sunday in the Women's College Cup fmal at SAS Stadium. 
''I'm not disappointed in my team, but I am disappointed for them," Notre Dame coach Randy Waldrum said. "I thought we had a good chance to win this one." 
The quicker and stronger Tar Heels outshot the Irish 20-9, con­trolled possession for most of the game and took a 2-0 lead early in the second half. Notre Dame made a late run, scoring with 10 minutes left in the game, but could not complete the come­back. 
The deficit was the first time the Irish seniors had been down 2-0 in their careers. 
"I thought we responded to being down okay," Waldrum said. "But we shouldn't have gotten down like that in the first place." 
The Irish ~ere denied their second National Championship in three years, while North Carolina won its 18th NCAA title and its first since 2003. 
Notre Dame finished its season 25-1-1, while the Tar Heels set a school record for wins with 27 against one loss. 
The sellout crowd of over 8,000 was clad mostly in Carolina blue and the Tar Heels even took a pep band on the 25 minute trip down I-40. But Waldrum said the hostile atmosphere had nothing to do with the outcome of the game. 
"It was loud, but once that whistle blows the crowd doesn't matter all that much," he said. "Maybe when you're right down near the goal and they start yelling you can hear it, but it shouldn't effect you too much." 
The Tar Heels scored their first goal with 28 minutes left in the first half. Forward Heather O'Reilly made a run down the left side with no Notre Dame defend­ers in sight. Irish goalkeeper Lauren Karas ventured well out of the box to try to cut O'Reilly off. 
Karas went for a slide tackle but whiffed and O'Reilly put the ball easily into the empty net for a 1-0 lead. 
The defensive breakdown put the Irish on their heels. "For the first fifteen minutes or so, I thought we were all right," 

Waldrum said. "But that first goal, the way it happened, took the wind out of our sails a little bit." 
The Tar Heels almost added to their lead with 18 minutes left in the half on a shot from just out­side the box by forward Whitney Engen, but Karas made a diving save to keep Notre Dame in the game. 
North Carolina continued to pressure the Irish net, forcing Karas to make another diving save with one minute left before halftime. Forward Sterling Smith beat Irish defender Kim Lorenzen and got a shot off, but once again Karas made the play to keep the deficit at one. 
Notre Dame had a solid chance to score just before the half, when forward Brittany Bock flicked on a free kick with her head but midfielder Amanda Cinalli couldn't get to it before Tar Heel keeper Anna Rodenbaugh smothered the ball. 
At halftime, North Carolina had outshot the Irish 10-2. 
Immediately after the break, the Tar Heels scored again. Forward Casey Nogueira streaked into the. box and headed a perfect cross from Engen into the net for a 2-0 lead with 43 minutes left. 
Notre Dame made a game of it in the last 10 minutes, scoring with nine minutes left to play. Sophomore forward and Hermann Award winner Kerri Hanks lofted the ball into the box, where Bock emerged from a crowd to head it into the net and cut the lead to one. 
"Getting a goal gave ~s some confidence," Cinalli said. "Unfortunately, we couldn't get in another one." 
After the score, the Irish went into an all-out attack mode, send, ing nearly every player forward and generating several more chances. 
"Sometimes you play better when you have nothing to lose," Waldrum said. 
The best Irish opportunity after the goal came with eight minutes left. A flip throw-in by freshman Michele Weissenhofer bounced around in the box, but Rodenbaugh managed to coral it and end the threat. 
Hanks also had one last effort for Notre Dame, earning a free kick just outside the box with one minute remaining, but her shot flew just to the right of the net. 
"It was really close," Cinalli said. "Itjust barely missed." 
While Waldrum was pleased with the late rally, he wondered aloud after the game why his team didn't wake up until the game was almost over. 
"I like our intensity in the last fifteen minutes," he said. "But we should have played like that for the entire game." 

Notre Dame 2, Rorida State 1 
Notre Dame scored twice in less than two minutes late in the first half, then held off a furious Florida State comeback attempt to win a 2-1 thriller Friday to advance to the final against the Tar Heels. 
Notre Dame freshman mid­fielder Courtney Rosen put the Irish up 1-0 with nine minutes left in the first half. Rosen, who had come into the game for Weissenhofer five minutes before, took a pass on the right flank, juked a defender and rock­eted a shot past Florida State goalie Ali Mims. 
"I heard [Mims] was a little ten• ­tative with the ball in the air," 
Rosen said. "So I was like, 'why not?' and I let it fly." The goal was Rosen's second of her career. 
The Irish scored again barely two minutes later, with a corner kick by Hanks landing right on the head of Bock, who knocked the ball toward senior Jill Krivacek. Krivacek and a Seminole defender both went for the ball, which went off the Florida State player and into the net. 
Krivacek was credited with the goal. 
"I was right there and I had good enough position that whichever of us touched it, it was probably going in the net," Krivacek said. "But she was the one who headed it, not me." 
The Seminoles (18-4-4) had controlled possession for most of the half, but were unable to gen­erate many chances. Florida State had more corner kicks than Notre Dame in the first half, 5 to 3, but was outshot 9-2. 
Waldrum said he was con­cerned at halftime because the Irish had not been as dominant in the first half as the scoreboard indicated. 
"Being up two is probably the most dangerous lead you can have," he said. "Sometimes you would rather maybe be up by just one, because you don't want to sit on a two-goal lead, but you don't want to give up a quick goal either." 
The Seminoles kept the pres­sure on after the break and cut the lead to one early in the sec­ond half. Senior India Trotter blew past Irish freshman defend­er Haley Ford and beat Karas. 
Trotter had started the game at left back, but Seminoles coach Mark Krikorian moved her up front after Florida State fell behind 2-0. It was Trotter's eighth goal of the year, second on the Seminole team. 

"We thought we had some matchups today with her attack­ing that would work for us, and I guess they did," Krikorian said. 
Soon after the goal, Trotter moved back to defense, a move which "relieved" Waldrum. 
"India Trotter is a great athlete, and she was really creating some havoc against us," he said. 
Florida State had a golden chance to tie the game with 23 minutes left. A Seminoles free kick flew into the box and was headed toward the net. Karas missed it, but it hit the cross bar and bounced to the ground, where the Irish keeper knocked it out of bounds. 
Florida State got two shots off on the ensuing corner kick, but both were deflected. 
"We were under a lot of pres­sure," Notre Dame defender Christie Shaner said. "We had to get organized because players were running free." 
Late in the game, Krikorian removed Mims and put a· goalie jersey on junior defender Libby Gianeskis in order to get a quick­er, more offensive lineup into the game. 
"We've been working on that for a few months," Krikorian said. "If we're in a desperate situ­ation where we need a goal, that's usually what we go to. There's no difference to me between losing two to one and three to one." 
The strategy almost paid off, with the Seminoles getting two major scoring chances with less than 15 minutes to play. 
The first, with 13 minutes left, came on a through-ball .to for­ward Kelly Rowland. Rowland was one-on-one with Karas, but the Irish keeper smothered the ball before the Florida State sen­ior could get a shot off. 
Ten minutes later, the Seminoles had a two-on-one break down the right flank, but Notre Dame freshman defender Amanda Clark, the only Irish player left on that side, managed to clear the ball. 
The Irish counter-attacked after the clear and junior for­ward Susan Pinnick found herself running free behind Gianeskis, who had moved up almost to midfield. Gianeskis recovered just in time to harass Pinnick's shot, which rolled just wide of the open net. 

Note: 
+Hanks, Bock, and Krivacek were named to the All­Tournament team from Notre Dame. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
player of the game 
stat of the game 
play of the game 

quote of the game 

Heather O'Reilly 
0 


Brittany Bock's 81st-minute goal 

'Tm not disappointed in my team,
The Tar Heel forward's goal in the I 8th 
Amount oftimes Notre Dame's 
Bock's header from Hermann Trophy 

but I am disappointed for them." 
minute gave North Carolina the lead, 
senior class had trailed 2-o in 
winner Kerri Hanks' pass gave the 

and she assisted Casey Nogueira's 
their careers before Sunday's 
Irish life inside the last 10 minutes. 


Randy Waldrum 
48th-minute insurance goal. 
game. 


Irish coach 

.----------------------------­
page 2 TheObserver+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, December 4, 2006 
Senior class leaves behind impressive legacy 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 

CARY, N.C. -Somewhere underneath the tears of the Irish seniors following their 2-1 College Cup loss to North Carolina twin­kles the glowing accomplishments of a class that made its long­awaited return to the champi­onship stage. · 
Friday's semifinal victory over Florida State gave Notre Dame its 92nd win over the past four years, surpassing the soccer Class Of 1997's 91 victories for the most wins by a Notre Dame senior class in the program's history. 
The loss brought the senior class's career record to 92-8-3 over the past four years, a mark second in the country to only North Carolina's 97-3-3 stretch over that same time 
But at Notre Dame, success is measured in National Championships. Like the class of 1997, these seniors won a College Cup title as sophomores, when they defeated UCLA in a shootout at the same site as this weekend's matches. Sunday they attempted to become the first Irish team to win two titles and the first pro­gram besides North Carolina to win three. 
"This senior class for us amazes me," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said after the game. "Ever since we've been here we've been asked Carolina this and Carolina that and the aura of Carolina and all that stuff .... I think in terms of set-
Nov. 10 


NotreDame 7 Oakland-21 
Nov. 12 

Notre Dome l 

Wisconson-Mil. 0 

ting a legac)', thic; group of seniors has been to ... two [College Cup semifinals] and won a National Championship. And that's equal to what North Carolina has done in the last five years as well." 
After the loss, Irish coach Randy Waldrum said it was hard to talk to a group that had already won one title, but was so broken because they just lost their chance to win another. 
"You never as a coach want to have that conversation. I want to be on the other side of that like [Noth Carolina coach Anson Dorrance is]," Waldrum said. "I think this group's has been special and helped us form our own lega­cy as well. I think the kids deserve to be looked at on a national scene the way that we feel like we are. We just hope that we'll be back. For the seniors, I thank them for all they've done." 
Senior midfielder and All­Tournament midfielder Jill Krivacek said that at the end of the game, the long journey of the class just began to come into focus. 
"Everything at that moment seemed to flash before us -for me at least," Krivacek said. "The four years playing with my best friends and the friendships that we developed, the National Championship in 2004, and I think now we have a little better per­spective. But it'll be a few years from now that we really realize that it was a great four years." 
In addition to the 2004 title, Krivacek said one of the great legacies left by the seniors is their dominance at Alumni Field, where they posted a 53-2-1 reeord and had not lost since Miehigan beat them 1-0 in the second round of the NCAA Tournament during their freshman year. 
"[Senior forward] Molly [Iarocci] and I were talking about this [Saturday) night," she said. "That we felt for the girls who had to go off on a loss losing at home at Alumni. I think what we took pride in as a senior class is we never had [anotlmr] loss at Alumni Field in our four years. We pro­tected our home field." 
The seniors dominated in their showing at Alumni Field, knocking off No. 8 Penn State 4-0 in front of their home crowd. 
"That game against Penn State was a great way to leave Alumni Field," Krivacek said. 
Even after stumbling in their final act, Krivacek has no regrets. 
"We hadn't played North Carolina in our four years and there's no other way to go out than to play Carolina," she said. "Unfortunately we didn't win, but it was a very good Carolina team." 
It was also a very good Notre Dame team, one that carried a No. 1 ranking and its aceompanying bullseye almost the entire season. It was the type of team that elicit­ed those same kinds of remarks from the teams the Irish brought down on the way to Cary. When the Irish beat Colorado 3-0 at home in the Sweet 16, Buffaloes midfielder Katie Griffin was thankful for the opportunity to go 
North Carolina 
Notre Dame 1 


out against No. 1 Notre Dame. 

"If you have to lose to somebody you might as well go out to the number one team in the nation. We've never played Notre Dame before." 
When someone finally pulls the plug on the torch atop Grace, there is nothing anyone can do to extinguish the legacy ofthese sen-
Notional Championship 
2 
Semifinals Semifinals 


North Carolina 2
Notre Dq-: 't:f/ 
Elorido~ff)te·' 1 

UCLA. 0 
iors. Fluorescent light or not, when it comes to ranking the all­time Notre Dame women's soccer classes, Krivacek, Iarocci, Christie Shaner, Kim Lorenzen, Lizzie Reed, Claire Gallerano and Nikki Westfall are No. 1. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
Nov. 10 
Nodh Carolina 7 UNt.Ashville 0 
Nov. 12 
Nortb Caronna 4 Navy 0 
Nov. 18 
NordlCcxolino 6 
Te~ '2 
Quarterfinals 
Nortbfaroliu& 3 
v.~•"" • 
Texos,A&I,:;i 2 




... r:,. 

MADELINE -NIES/Oblervcr~--_ ­
Monday, December 4, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Fighting proves to be too tnuch for Irish 
CARY, N.C.-The gloves were off Sunday against the most storied program in NCAA history. 
When sophomore forward 
Kerri Hanks lined up for the opening kickoff, the Texas native's bare hands were with­out the 


gloves she  Tim Dougherty  
normally  
wears in  
sub-60 degree  Sports Writer  
weather,  

prepared for the biggest game of the year. 
After lasting almost the entire season as the top ranked team in the nation, Hanks and the Irish were ready for a fight against co­No. 1 North Carolina. And a title fight it was on the biggest of stages -in the epicenter of women's college soccer. There 
Waldrum to win the award and the third overall for the Notre Dame women's pro­gram. Only North Carolina has had more players win the Hermann Trophy than the Irish. 
"I did not think I was going to win it," Hanks said in a statement after receiv­ing the award Saturday night in North Carolina, according to a und.com press release. "I can't explain how thankful I am to my teammates. Without them, I would not be close to getting this award." 
Through her first two sea-, were even scalpers and ing Tar Heel keeper Anna celebrities like Pat Summit, Rodenbaugh. Roy Williams, Mia Hamm and In the end, Notre Dame Nomar Garciaparra. spent too much time just 

But on the field, fighting. Notre Dame played "I was North Carolina. And "For the seniors, I proud of in the 27th game of the fact
thank them for all 

the season, the that they unbeaten Irish finally they've done." came back met their match. and made 
If nothing else, it a game
Randy Waldrum 

Notre Dame fought, whistled for 20 of the game's 41 fouls. The Irish fought for their lives for the fmal 20 minutes, trying frantically to become the first team in 186 tries to come back from a 2-0 deficit to Carolina. 
In the 81st minute, sopho­more forward Brittany Bock emerged from a pile of fallen bodies to lay her head on Hanks' cross to send it into the net -and spark hope to a fading team. 
Hanks had her shot to tie in the 89th minute, but her free kick from 20 yards out sailed right of the goal, beyond div-
Hanks, Lapira each win Her111ann trophy 
Notre Dame first to have both menIs and womenIs honoree 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
Across the board, Notre Dame took home a consider­able amount of hardware this weekend. 
Sophomore forward Kerri Hanks won the Missouri Athletic Club Hermann Trophy Award for the best Division I women's college soccer player, and junior forward Joseph Lapira took home the same award on the men's side. Together, they helped Notre Dame to become the first ever school to have players win both the men and women's Hermann Trophy in the same season. 
"I think it's pretty well known that Notre Dame has one of the best programs in the country, but this certain­ly reinforces that," Irish men's coach Bobby Clark said. 
As a sophomore, Hanks became the 
sons at Notre Dame, Hanks has tallied 136 points ­only former SMU player Lisa Cole (147) and former UC Santa Barbara standout Carin Jennings (14 7) had more in their first two respective seasons. 
This past season, Hanks led the nation in both goals 
(22) and assists (21) becom­ing only the eleventh player in NCAA history to break 20 in both categories. Hanks joins former UNC and national team star Mia Hamm as the only players to ever lead the nation in both goals and assists, and Hanks hopes that the comparisons between the two players won't end there. 
"It's always been my goal to play for the national team," Hanks said. "My time is not yet but hopefully it will come later. I think more about the team now than individually. To be the best player in the world is not something I am too worried about." 
Lapira, who traveled to St. Louis this weekend to receive the Hermann Trophy at the Missouri Athletic 
Club, becomes 

youngest play­the first player
''This was arguably
er, male or in the history of female, to win the best season Notre Dame 
the Hermann that Notre Dame men's soccer to Trophy. She ever win the
has ever put
becomes the award. Lapira second player together." beat out junior under current forward Charlie women's coach Davies of Boston
Joseph Lapira 
R a n d y College and
Irish forward 
SMU senior defender Jay Needham. 
"I've spent 20 plus years coaching in college soccer, and I've never had one of my players win player of the year, so obviously it's a very special moment for this pro­gram," Clark said. 
Lapira led the nation in both goals (22) and points 
(50) this season, but perhaps more impressively, he did it playing with an injured knee. Lapira tore his left lat­eral meniscus in the first game of the season against UAB, but he made a joint 
.,decision with Clark and the at the
Irish coach 
end," Irish coach Randy 
Waldrum said. ''I'm proud that we showed that kind of heart. You find the positives in a big game like that. I just wished we could've done it a little bit earlier." 
The Irish faced more pres­sure than they had seen all year. Tar Heels swarmed to wherever the ball was, suffo­cating Irish players and pre­venting them from establish­ing an offensive rhythm until the end of the second half. 
North Carolina outshot Notre Dame for the first time all year, 20-9. That's a hard deficit to overcome, especially to North Carolina. 
"I was quite honestly shocked that we didn't come out and have that kind [of1 intensity that we had the last 15 minutes," Waldrum said. 
Though junior goalkeeper Lauren Karas might like a do­over on the first goal, she kept her team within striking dis­tance by laying out in the air and on the ground for two breathtaking first half saves. 
Notre Dame brought a lot Sunday, but when you play Carolina, a lot isn't good enough. You have to bring everything you have, and then find something extra before it's too late. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, time ran out before they could find it. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd. edu 

•

scoring summary 
UNC Notre Dame  1st 1 0  3rd  Total 2 1  
First Half  

North Carolina 1, Notre Dame 0 
Tar Heel forward Heather O'Reilly lofts a ball past Notre Dame keeper Lauren Karas 17:57 into the game. The goal was assisted by Casey Noguera. 
Second Half North Carolina 2, Notre Dame 0 
Noguera puts a 5-yard header into the left side of the net 46:28 into the game. O'Reilly and Whitney Engen assisted the goal. 
North Carolina 2, Notre Dame 1 
Midfielder Brittany Bock puts a header over 
North Carolna goalkeeper Ashlyn Harris from 
six yards away 80:30 into the game. Striker 
Kerri Hanks assisted the goal. 
1st 3rd Total Notre Dame 1 2 Florida State 0 1 
First Half 
Notre Dame 1, Florida State 0 
Midfielder Courtney Rosen forces a turnover 
and put the ball past Seminole goalie Ali 
Mims from 25 yards 35:32 into the game. Notre Dame 2, Florida State 0 
Forward Jill Krivacek heads the ball into the 
right side of the net 38:21 into the game fol­
lowing Bock header and a Hanks corner kick. 
Hanks and Bock both received assists on the 
play. 
Second Half Notre Dame 2, Florida State 1 
Forward India Trotter lofts the ball into the top 
left corner of the Irish net 51:22 into the game. 
Kelly Rowland received an assist on the play. 
statistics 
•* 
~ij 


20 shots on goal 9 2 corner kicks 1 2 saves 5 20 fouls 21 3 assists 1 
Notre Dame season leaders 
Offense 

player points goals assist 
Kerri Hanks 65 22 21 Michele Weissenhofer 53 18 17 Brittany Bock 29 11 7 Amanda Cinalli 26 11 4 JiII Krivacek 16 5 6 Jen Buczkowski 15 1 13 Susan Pinnick 10 2 6 Ash ely Jones 9 2 5 Courtney Rosen 8 2 4 Lizzie Read 7 2 3 Molly Iarocci 6 1 2 
Defense 
Goals 

player against saves wins 
Lauren Karas 8 36 24 Kelsey Lysander 1 4 1 
UNC season leaders 
Offense 

player points goals assist 
Heather O'Reilly 40 12 16 Yael Averbuch 39 16 7 Whitney Engen 37 12 13 Elizabeth Guess 25 6 13 Tobin Heath 17 4 9 Casey Nogueira 16 4 8 Ali Hawkins 15 6 3 Nikki Washington 15 3 9 Jaime Gilbert 14 5 4 Sterling Smith 14 5 4 
Defense 

Goals player against saves wins 
Anna Rodenbaugh 10 48 25 Ashlyn Harris 3 7 2 
team's training staff to put surgery off until after the season. For the last month, Lapira did not practice with the team, but rather spent time between the games working out in the trainer's room. 
"Some would consider it nice not to practice, but it killed me to not be able to go out there and play in practice," Lapira said. "It was kind of a day-to-day thing whether my knee would make it through or not." 
Lapira tallied 11 game winning goals this season, 
one  of  which  came  on  
September  3,  when  he  
scored four goals in  a  5-4  

overtime victory against in­state rival Indiana. Later in During one stretch, Lapira scored· in seven consecutive games, and in that stretch 
he had two goals each in five straight games. 
Lapira also scored the Irish's only goals in their 1-0 wins over Illinois-Chicago and Maryland in the first two round of this year's NCAA tournament. He also had an assist in Notre Dame's 3-2 loss to Virginia in the quarterfinals. Although that loss came lit­tle over one week ago, Lapira has already started looking towards next season. 
"This was arguably the best season that Notre Dame has ever put together," Lapira said. "Arguably, the reason we went so far was the leadership of our sen­iors, and we're going to have to try and fill that hole next year." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

page4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, December 4, 2006 

Too little, too late 
Notre Dame's matchup with North Carolina pitted the 
.... then-No.l Irish against the perennial powerhouse Tar Heels. After surrendering goals to Heather O'Reilly and Casey Nogueira, the Irish attempted to pull a off a late game comeback. Forward Jill Krivacek's goal in the 81st minute cut the North Carolina lead to one, but Notre Dame couldn't find the equalizer before time ran out on the game and its season. 


Top left, forward Kerri Hanks sits down after Notre Dame's loss. Top right, Irish forward Ashley Jones slide tackles UNC's Whitney Engen. Center, North Carolina's Ann Rodenbaugh makes a dMng save. Bottom right, Irish forward Haley Ford steals the ball from FSU's Becky Edwards. Bottom left, Hanks chests down a ball as UNC's Ariel Harris defends. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Monday, December 4, 2006 
page 13 

Perennial Christmas favorites foster holiday spirit 

THEATER REVIEW 
'Putnam' fuses music, comedy, spelling bees 
By MICHELLE FORDICE 
Scene Critic 
The Chicago production of "The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee" is a hilarious show that loves its audience. Irresistible characters, a strong message and a wonderful way of involving viewers drive the show to its heights. 
"The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee" deserves its Tony for best book. It tells the story of six middle-school students strug­gling through puberty, overseen by adults who don't appear to have made completely it through the process either, as they com­pete in the county spelling bee. "Putnam County Spelling Bee" is fueled by its charac­ters. From Mitch Mahoney, the official "com­fort counselor" serving his parole handing out juice boxes to eliminated contestants, to William Barfee, the contestant with one working nostril, a severe peanut allergy and a magic foot, to vice principal Douglas Panch, whose recovery from the 20th annu­al bee "incident" is a little uncertain, every character works his or her way into your heart. 
"Putnam County Spelling Bee" isn't afraid to interact with its audience. Before the show, audience members are interviewed and four are selected to actually perform as spellers in the show. The rest of the audi­ence is then treated not as a theatre audi­ence, but as the audience of the spelling bee. In the beginning, the host walks through the crowd welcoming the audience to the bee, certain members are pointed out as charac­ter's "family," and the first character to be eliminated is then exiled to work for booster club selling candy. The character rebels by throwing candy and chips out at the audi­ence. The interactive element of "Putnam County Spelling Bee" keeps the audience involved and makes every show different. 
Though at first glance "Putnam County Spelling Bee" seems to be solely a comedy, the musical has real depth. The central theme can be summed up in the lyric "the best spellers don't necessarily win." "Putnam County Spelling Bee" stresses the rea<;ons the spellers are there and why they want (or don't want) to win. Logainne Schwartzandgrubenierre, the adopted 
daughter of a gay couple, continually fights to illustrate their ability to raise a child. Olive Ostrovsky tries to battle on despite the absence of both her parents. "Putnam County Spelling Bee," unlike most musicals, also keeps itself up to date, thanks to the cast's ad-libbed com-

Between the finals, papers and general stress of the end of the semester, the fact that Christmas is around the corner sometimes gets lost. 
But fear not. Christmas trees are appearing across campus, Christmas music is playing on the radio, and televi­sion stations are starting to play all of the classic favorites. 
There is something about Christmas movies that makes it feel like it's the holi­day season again. Whether it's because they were all we watched for a month when we were kids or because of their sweet nature, it's not Christmas without a certain few. 
10. "It's a Wonderful Life"-There can't be a Christmas movie list without this Frank Capra film starring James Stewart. This touching story reminds us of the importance of life, pure and sim­ple. 
9. "Rankin/Bass Christmas Specials"­These famous stop-motion and animated shows, including "Rudolph the Red-Nose Reindeer." "The Year Without a Santa Clause," "The Little Drummer Boy," "Frosty the Snowman," "Santa Claus is Coming to Town" and "Jack Frost," have played on TV stations ever since they premiered in the 1960s. Something about their simple animation and spirit­ed spins on some of the classic Christmas stories makes them appealing 

Michelle Fordice 
Scene Writer 
year in and year out. 
8. "Miracle on 34th Street" -I remember watching both versions of this movie over and over again right before Christmas. Cynicism disappears as we all start believing in Santa Clause again, even just for a little while. 
7. "Little Women"-All right. It isn't really a Christmas movie. But it gives me that snowy and cozy Christmas feel­ing, so it's included anyway. "Little Women" is the perfect story of family love (set among some great snow scenes) that inspires you to spend more time with your own. 
6. "Meet Me in St. Louis"-This movie could be included solely because it is the birthplace of the song "Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas," sung by Judy Garland, but its sweet love sto­ries make it all the better. 
5. "The Santa Claus"-Starring Tim Allen, this is one of the funniest Christmas movies and definitely one of the best in recent years. The story of what happens when Santa gets replaced by the unlikeliest of men, "The Santa Clause" will warm your heart either from sincerity or laughter. 
4. "The Small One"-I have yet to find anyone else who remembers this one, but I can't resist including the movie I had practically memorized as a little girl that made me cry every time. A short 1978 Disney animated cartoon, "The Small One" tells the story of a boy who must part with his pet donkey, but the only one who will buy him is the tan­ner. When all hope seems lost, a man offers to buy the donkey, so that he can bring his pregnant wife to Bethlehem. 
3. "How the Grinch Stole Christmas" ­Your head may not be screwed on just right if you can resist the original ani­mated version. Dr. Seuss' unforgettable story of the mean and cynical Grinch who sets out to destroy Christmas for the Whos helps us remember that it can come without "packages, boxes, or bags!" 
2. "A Christmas Carol" -Whether it stars Alastair Sim, Patrick Stewart or the Moppets, you can't go through the Christmas season without watching some version of Dickens' classic tale. 
1. "A Charlie Brown Christmas"-In my favorite, Charlie Brown, Snoopy and the rest of the gang get past the com­mercialism of Christmas and find out, as Linus says, what "Christmas is all about." This movie is the epitome of everything Christmas. It's a childhood memory, it's sweet and funny and it reminds us that Christmas is a celebra­tion of the birth of our Savior, Christ the Lord. 

Have a Merry Christmas! 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd. edu. 
The views expressed· in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
courtesy of geocrties.com The orig1nal Broadway cast of "Putnam County Spelling Bee," pictured above, helped the musical win two Tony Awards in 2005. Chicago's cast is performing in an open run. 
ments about current events. The music of "Putnam County Spelling 
· Bee" is very plot-driven, but appealing and appropriate. While it is unlikely the musi­cal's songs will become standards or attain success on their own -there are not many full solos -they are fun to listen to and express the feelings of the characters very well. The songs are simple, reflecting the young age of the singers, but they narrate what the characters are thinking and pack in a lot of comedy. The Chicago cast did a wonderful job. The children are all played by adults who act so well it's hard to imagine they aren't in ele­mentary school. Many of the actors also play 

multiple roles, switching from one to the other with ease. 
"Putnam County Spelling Bee" evokes laughter throughout the entire performance, all while delivering a strong message and vivid characters. A trip to Chicago is well worth getting a ticket to an 1-R-R-E-S-I-S-T-· I-B-L-E musical. 
"The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee" 'i<; being. performed in an open rw1 at the Drury Lane Theatre Water Tower. Ticket information can be found at broadway­inchicago.com. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, December 4, 2006 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

UCLA crushes USC's title hopes; Florida wins SEC crovvn 
Trojans 13-9 los~ to Bruins opens door for Gators to play Ohio State in BCS National Championship Game 

young men who just went 12-1 Riley Skinner followed with the most difficult schedule Swanson's pick with long com­against six ranked opponents pletions on consecutive drives, that they don't have a chance to setting up Sam Swank's final two go play for a national champi­field goals that gave No. 16 onship?" Florida coach Urban Wake Forest a 9-6 victory over Meyer asked incredulously. "''m 23rd-ranked Georgia Tech in the going to need help with that ACC title game on a rain-soaked one." Saturday.. 
His players agreed, of course, "When you get our backs feeling the No. 4 Gators are against the wall, these kids more deserving of a shot at the respond," Wake Forest coach Buckeyes than third-ranked Jim Grobe said. Michigan, which lost to Ohio Skinner, who grew up in State two weeks ago in their reg­Jacksonville, finished 14-for-25 ular-season finale. for 201 yards in his homecoming 
·~Michigan already had its -and may have had the biggest chance," said freshman Percy cheering section in the half­Harvin, who was MVP of the empty stadium. He struggled Gators' 38-28 win over No. 8 most of the game and was Arkansas on Saturday night. "1 sacked four times, but he came think we deserve a chance." up big when the Demon Deacons 
One team Florida doesn't have needed it most. to worry about: Southern He hooked up with John California. The No. 2 Trojans Tereshinski for a 39-yard gain were knocked out by a 13-9 loss on third-and-10, setting up to UCLA, which finished ofT its Swank's second field goal, a 33­stunning upset while the Gators yarder with 8:27 to play. The were in the locker room at half­kick tied the game at 6. time. On the next possession, 
"It was definitely motivation," Skinner found Willie Idlette llarvin said. "We wanted to go down the middle for a 45-yard out and finish o!T the game." gain, setting up a 22-yarder that 
That they did. Harvin scored turned out to be the game-win­two touchdowns and Florida put ner. up two more scores off a blocked punt and a botched return, win­West Virginia 41, Rutgers 39 ning its first SEC crown since (3 OT) 
It wasn't to be, even though yards. 2000. Jarrett Brown threw the go­Associated Press USC came in averaging 32.3 "We gave them a lot of differ­The Gators trailed Michigan in ahead score and West Virginia points a game. ent looks," Walker said. "If we last week's BCS standings but knocked down Mike Teel's 2­PASADENA, Calif. -Southern Besides having their national confused Booty, that would take hope they did enough to leapfrog point conversion pass to pre­California's dejected players championship hopes ended, the care of Jarrett." the Wolverines in the one that serve a triple-overtime win over trudged off the Rose Bowl field, Trojans (10-2, 7-2 Pac-10) had The strategy worked to perfec­really matters. The media, Rutgers, denying the Scarlet oblivious to the celebration going their NCAA-record streak of 63 tion. coaches and computers will Knights their first BCS berth and on around them. games in which they had scored "Their offensive line was real answer that question Sunday allowing Louisville to gain the 
Their national championship 20 or more points snapped. wide-eyed," UCLA defensive end night. automatic bid. hopes had just ended with the And a lot of the credit goes to Bruce Davis said. "People said When everything is settled -Brown ran for one touchdown biggest upset of the season. UCLA's first-year defensive coor­we're small. That's all right. We and no matter what happens, and threw for another in his first 
UCLA knocked No. 2 USC out dinator DeWayne Walker, a for­were big enough to knock Booty there will be plenty of griping -career start to help No. 15 West of the Bowl Championship Series mer Washington Redskins assis­on the ground." Florida either heads to Arizona Virginia (10-2, 5-2 Big East) captitle game with a stunning victo­tant. It was his schemes the for the Jan. 8 BCS championship its second straight 1 0-win sea­ry over its crosstown rival. The Trojans were unable to solve. Florida 38, Arkansas 28 game or settles for a spot in the son. Brown started for Pat Bruins did it with a vastly "I didn't believe it until the As silver confetti blew all Sugar Bowl. White, who missed the game improved defense and a quarter­clock hit zero," UCLA coach Karl around them, the Florida Gators because of a sore ankle. back starting on three days' Dorrell said. "All we wanted to celebrated their first Wake Forest 9, Georgia Tech 6 "What a ball game," West notice. do was stay close and get a Southeastern Conference since Wake Forest's defensive play­Virginia coach Rich Rodriguez
"Give credit to UCLA. They chance to win. l know how the "Fun 'n' Gun" days. flrs huddled near the sideline, said. "No one panicked tonight." made it a difficult day," said USC important this win is for the The party didn't last long, lJushing and shoving, yelling and The ending was a peculiar fm­coach Pete Carroll, whose team Bruin family. l know that it's though. screaming, jumping and danc­ish to an improbable regularlost for just the fourth time in its been a long time." It was time to start lobbying ing. season for No. 13 Rutgers (10-2, last 59 games. "They kept us Since 1998, to be exact. The for a chance to play for the They were trailing 6-3 and 5-2). A loser for so long, the from doing what we wanted to Trojans had beaten the Bruins biggest title of all. ready to do something about it. Scarlet Knights started 9-0 
do. We had no rhythm. We did seven straight times. Before that, Making their pitch for a trip to Riley Swanson did. before being upset at Cincinnati, not anticipate this happening." UCLA beat USC eight times in a the desert, the Gators got an Swanson intercepted a pass then rebounded by beatingNeither did most fans of either row. unexpected assist from the West from Reggie Ball on the next Syracuse to set the stage for 
team. The Trojans hammered The Bruins only sacked USC Coast, held on for a topsy-turvy play, sparking a comeback that what would have been a historic the Bruins 66-19 last season to quarterback John David Booty win over Arkansas and quickly gave Wake Forest its first win against WVU. lock up a second straight twice, but they had him on the deemed themselves the most Atlantic Coast Conference cham­But while Rutgers produced its appearance in the BCS title run throughout and forced him worthy opponent to face top­pionship in 36 years and sent best season since going 11-0 in game, and figured to win again, to throw several balls away. And ranked Ohio State in the BCS the Demon Deacons to their 1976, it wasn't enough to get the if not by such a one-sided score, they held Trojans star Dwayne championship game. biggest bowl game in school his­BCS berth the Scarlet Knightsto make it three in a row. Jarrett to four catches for 68 "We're going to tell a group of tory. were hoping for. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
LOST & FOUND 
LOST: Spiral notebook, teal cover with angels with trumpets on the ove;. Call Tom 631-9806. 
FOUND: winter hat near Engineering Bldg. Call Tom 631-9806 to identify. 
WANTED 
WANTED: 1990 or 91 The Shirt. $100 for quality shirt. Call Dan at 712-251-0930. 

Need diving coach part time 2-3 afternoons/wk. Girls & boys teams. Call Washington High School Athletic De[!l. 574-283-7206. 
FoR SALE 
1991 Audi Model 80. 4-dr. excellent condition. $2,000. Call 561-596­0194. 
FoR RENT 
BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-campus homes & weekend rentals. Bluegoldrentals.(:om 
HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6 
Bedrooms www.NDstudentrentals.com 
3-6 Bedroom homes, walking distance, washer, dryer. MMM Rentals. Contact Gary 574-993-2208. 
BEST HOUSES & CHEAPEST RENT offered by ND GRADs. Available 07-08 or NOW. Call312-545-5123. 
One bdrm apt. in quiet historic area available Spring semester. Laundry & security. $575/mo. Call 574-283­0325. 
ATTN: GRAD STUDENTS & FAC­ULTY: Elegant Park Avenue Victorian, 3 finished levels, 4 bdrms, all hardwood floors, marble fireplace, ceramic tiled bath, French doors to patio, bay windows in dining room. Call Marcie 574-247-9330. 
3 bdrm, 2 baths, newly renovated home close to ND/SMC. Avail. 07-08, possibly Spring 06. Call 574-289-7791. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED .PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
I'm going to see Darlene Love!! 
Only 11 more days until I get to go home! 
Hey, Thomson, how does becoming a philosophy major sound? 
Taylor, I miss you already. Love, Hino P.S. You're too good for Riley. 
Come on Niners! All hope is not lost yet. 
Television does not get better than the first two seasons of the West Wing. Everyone should watch it. 


OUND THE NATION 
Monday, December 4, 2006 CoMrtLED FROM THE OnsERVER's \VIRE SERVICES page 15 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

NCAA Football Associated Press Top 25 
team record points previous 
1 Ohio State (65} 12·0 1625 2 Florida 12-1 1529 3 Michigan 11·1 152 4 LSU 1(}-2 1365 5 Louisville 11·1 1333 6 Wisconsin 11·1 1255 7 Oklahoma 11·2 1232 8 usc 10·2 1182 X<it 9 Boise Slate 12·0 1097 10 Auburn 10·2 1020 11 NOmE DAME 10•2 12 Arkansas .. ..,.:.:.;,..:.... 10~3 13 West Virglni~ ::;f 19~2 
14 Virginia Tech ·· ··· 10·2 15 Wake Forest 11·2 16 Rutgers 10·2 17 Tennessee 9·3 18 Texas 9·3 19 Brigham Young 10·2 20 California H 21 Texas A&M 9·3 22 Nebraska 9-4 23 Boston Col1ege .9-3 24 Oregon State · 9-4 25 TCU 10·2 
NCAA Football USA Today Coaches Poll 
team  record  points previous  
1  Ohio State (62}  12·0  1550  
2  Florida  12-1  1470  
3  Michigan  11·1  1444  
4  LSU  10·2  1299  
5  Wisconsin  11•1  1263  
6  Louisville  11·1  1223  
7  usc  10·2  1173.  2  
8  Oklahoma  11-2  1115  10  
g  Boise State  12·0  1053  9  
10  Auburn  10·2  1000  11  
11  NOTRE DAME  10·2  923  12  
12  Arkansas  10·3  800  15  
13  West Virginia  10·2  798  8  
14 15  Virginia Tech Wake Forest  10·2 11·2  71Ui 745  ~:·•·  
16 17  Texas Rutgers  9·3 10·2  582 :':::::m: i11 567·············· "13  
18  Tennessee  9·3  500  19  
19  California  9·3  436  20  
20  Brigham Young  10·2  369  21  
21  TexasA&M  9·3  303  24  
22  Nebraska  9·4  242  ..  18  
23  Boston College  9·3  175  25  
24  TCU  10~2  
25  Georgia Teet~  9·4  
NCAA Football  
BCS Rankings  
team  record  comp, avgl· Harris  
1  Ohio State  12·0  
2  Florida  12·1  
3  Michigan  11-1  t2  3  
4  LSU  10·2  5  4  
5  usc  10·2  4  7  
6  Louisville  11·1  6  5  
7  Wisconsin  11-1  10  6  
8  Boise Slate  12·0  7  9  
9  Auburn  10·2  8  t10  
10  Oklahoma  11-2  16  8  
11  NOmE DAME  10·2  9  t10  
12  Arkansas  10·3  12  13  
13  West Virginia  10·2  14  12  
14  Wake Forest  11-2  18  14  
15  Virginia Tech  10·2  19  15  

around the dial 
NFL 

Carolina at Philadelphia 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 

NCAA BASKETBALL USC at Kansas 9 p.m., ESPN2 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Florida beat Michigan on Sunday in the only game that mat­tered. 
The Gators, who lobbied hard for this victory, were picked to play No. 1 Ohio State for college football's Tostitos BCS Championship Game, ending any chance for the Wolverines to get the rematch they so desired and thought they deserved. 
After the numbers were crunched, it was Florida ­barely. The Gators had a BCS average of .944, and the Wolverines were close behind at .934. The teams were tied in the computer rating, but Florida had a 38-point lead in the Harris poll and a 26-point advan­tage in the coaches' poll. 
The close selection was sure to set off renewed calls to scrap the Bowl Championship Series and go to a playoff. 
Southern California was a step away from the title game if only it had beaten UCLA on Saturday. Instead, the second-ranked Trojans were upset 13-9, dropping in the standings and clear· ing the way for Florida (12­
1) or Michigan (11-1). 
The Gators leapfrogged idle Michigan by winning the Southeastern Conference championship game, 38-28, over 
IN BRIEF 
UC-Santa Barbara mens 
soccer takes championship 
ST. LOUIS, Mo. -Nick Perera had a goal and an assist and unseeded UC-Santa Barbara beat UCLA 2-1 Sunday to win the program's first national title and second champi­onship in school history. 
Perera banged the Gauchos' first shot off the left post and into the UCLA goal to make it 1-0 less than 3 minutes into the game. Tyler Rosenlund carried the ball deep into the box before passing it back to an unmarked Perera, who had plenty of time to settle it and take the shot. 
The Gauchos (17 -7 -1) took a 2-0 lead in the second half. Perera col­lected a pass in the UCLA box from Bryan Byrne and flicked the ball to an open Eric Avila, who slid it into the bottom left corner of the goal. 
The UC-Santa Barbara victory came less than a day after it played 110 scoreless minutes in its semifi· nal victory over Wake Forest. 
Arkansas. 

"It's well deserved, and I'm proud of it," said Florida coach Urban Meyer on the Gators' selection. 
The championship game is Jan. 8 in Glendale, Ariz. 
Michigan's consolation prize is a Rose Bowl bid to play USC, a classic Big Ten vs. Pac-10 matchup of teams left to wonder what could have been. 
For the first time in the BCS's eight-year history, the championship matchup was a mystery heading into selection Sunday. 
When the Wolverines ended their regular season with a 42-39 loss to the Buckeyes two weeks ago, they talked about getting another swing at their Big Ten rivals. 
While Michigan was left to wait and hope, the other contenders still had games to play. 
Florida made its final case by beating Arkansas, but second-year coach Meyer became very vocal about getting a chance to play Ohio State, especially when it appeared the Gators would be left out. 
"It's an imperfect sys­tem," said Meyer of the BCS. "If you want a true national championship, the only way to do it is on the field." 
Ohio State coach Jim Tressel, however, is not in favor of a playoff. 
Tiger to build his first golf 
course in Dubai 
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates ­Tiger Woods said Sunday he will develop his first golf course in Dubai, an oil-rich city that hosts two European Tour events and has seen a recent rise in golf course construc­tion. 
The Tiger Woods Dubai will fea­ture a 7,700-yard, par-72 course, a 60,000-square-foot clubhouse, a golf academy, 320 exclusive villas and a boutique hotel with 80 suites. 
"I look at this project not only as an opportunity, but also as a great responsibility," Woods said. 
Dubai already has eight golf cours­es, including the Emirates Golf Club, which hosts the Dubai Desert Classic. Woods won the tournament earlier this year in a playoff over Ernie Els. Woods lost in Dubai five years ago when he made double bogey on the fmal hole to finish two shots behind Thomas Bjorn. 

Safin victor_y clinches Davis Cup for Russia 
MOSCOW -Admitting he was downright scared, Marat Safin com­posed himself and won the Davis Cup title for Russia. 
The two-time Grand Slam champi­on had 16 aces in beating Jose Acasuso 6-3, 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 (5) on Sunday in the fifth and deciding match, giving Russia a 3-2 decision over Argentina for its second Davis Cup crown. 
"There were some very difficult moments today," Safin said. "It was tough to control the match. Everything worked out." 
Safm lost his opening singles match Friday, blaming the indoor carpet at Olympic Stadium. But neither the sur­face nor lingering knee injuries stopped him this time. 
"This is probably the most impor­tant win in the last two years," Safin said. "I was under pressure and I was pretty scared," Safin said. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, December 4, 2006 
NFL 

Steelers finally find stride against Tampa Bay 
Pittsburgh dominates; Titans victorious on late 60-yard field goal 
Associated Press PITTSBURGH The Pittsburgh Steelers saw last week what happens when a hur­ried quarterback has no time to make throws, set up in the pock­et or get any rhythm going. Too bad for them they waited until it was too late in the season to figure out how to do the same. The Steelers didn't do much on offense for the second week in a row, but it didn't make much dif­ference as they capitalized on repeated mistakes by Tampa Bay rookie quarterback Bruce Gradkowski to beat the Buccaneers 20-3 on Sunday. In a matchup of two of the league's most disappointing teams, Ben Roethlisberger bounced back from one of the worst games of his three-s·eason career to throw touchdown passes to tight ends Jerame Tuman and Heath Miller _ both times after the Bucs (3-9) turned the ball over. The Steelers (5-7) entered with a league-high 30 turnovers, but this time limited themselves to one turnover while Tampa Bay gave away the ball four times _ and, with it, the game _ in lo~ing their sixth in seven games. The Bucs have scored only five touchdowns in losing all six road 
games this season. 
Roethlisberger was sacked nine times and threw two inter­ceptions last week in a 27-0 loss to Baltimore that effectively ended any chance the Super Bowl champion Steelers had of repeating. He wasn't that much better against Tampa Bay, com­pleting fewer than half of his 25 passes against one of the league's weakest pass defenses, but did throw scoring passes of 16 yards to Miller and 2 to Tuman. He also was sacked only once. 
The Bucs avoided their second shutout when Matt Bryant kicked a 27-yard field goal on the final play, promoting coach Jon Gruden to say, "I probably will get criticized for it." 
"There's kind of an unwritten rule against it but, if I had been them, I probably would have kicked it, too," Steelers line­backer Joey Porter said. 
Roethlisberger (12-of-25 for 198 yards) threw his league-high 20th interception less than four minutes in, making him the first Steelers quarterback since Cliff Stoudt in 1983 to throw that many. Stoudt had 21 intercep­tions in his one and only Steelers season as a starter. 
New Orleans 34, San Francisco 10 
Like his father, Reggie Bush was a 49ers fan growing up. 
Not on Sunday. 
With San Francisco in town, Bush's father, LaMar Griffin, attended a game in the Louisiana Superdome for the first time since his son turned pro, wearing Bush's No. 25 Saints jersey. Bush delighted his parents and everyone else wear­ing black-and-gold, showing like never before that all those elec­trifying plays he made in high school and college could trans­late to the NFL. 
"Obviously, I haven't had the flashy runs or the breakthrough game like everybody has been expecting, but at the same time, I'm adjusting to the NFL. I'm learning," Bush said. "It's the kind of a game I've been waiting for, too. It finally eame today." 
Bush tied Joe Horn's franchise record by scoring all four of the Saints' touchdowns and gained 168 total yards as New Orleans beat the San Francisco 49ers 34­
10. The victory helped New Orleans (8-4) remain alone in first place in the NFC South, while reducing the 49ers (5-7) to playofl"longshots. 
Most of Bush's gains were modest, but his stunning accel­eration, fancy footwork and leaping ability were evident in all of his touchdowns and numerous drive-sustaining plays. He finished with 131 yards on nine receptions and 37 yards on 10 rushes. 
It was fitting that Bush looked more comfortable than he had previously in his young pro career, since so many elements from his past had converged in this game. 

San Francisco quarterback Alex Smith was Bush's high school quarterback in San Diego. They won a pair of champi­onships together. Their high school coach also was at the game. And Bush said he needed an outlet after watching his school, Southern California, lose its chance for a national title by falling to rival UCLA a night ear­lier. 
"I was sick last night. I wanted to throw up. I couldn't believe they lost," Bush said. "I had a lit­tle extra aggression and I want­ed to take it out on the 49ers." 
Tennessee 20, Indianapolis 17 
Magic is in the air around the Tennessee Titans. Just ask Rob Bironas. 
Bironas kicked a 60-yard field goal -the franchise's longest ever -with 7 seconds left, and the Titans upset Indianapolis for their first victory over the Colts since December 2002 and their second straight amazing come­back. 
The team that tied for the NFL's second-biggest comeback in the final 10 minutes last week against the New York Giants struck again Sunday against the Colts (1 0-2), who had lost only four of their previous 36 games. 
With the wind at his back, Bironas needed every gust to lift the longest field goal in his short career over the crossbar for his second consecutive game-win­ning kick. He became the sixth kicker in NFL history to connect from 60 yards or better. 
"I needed that wind behind me today," Bironas said. "It was all at my back ... I let the wind take it the rest of the way." 
Peyton Manning said the wind was a big factor for the Titans in the fourth quarter, and never bigger than on Bironas' field goal. 
"The guy made a heck of a kick," Manning said. 
The Titans (5-7) didn't trail by 21 this time, but they were down 14-0 in the first half before start­ing this comeback with 10 points just before halftime. They inter­cepted Manning twice, and Vince Young threw for two touchdowns and used his legs to help keep the ball away from the two-time NFLMVP. 
Indianapolis needed a victory to clinch the division for a club­record fourth straight year and its seventh playoff berth in eight years. Seemingly easy enough for a franchise that had won 12 straight divisional games coming into Sunday. 
Instead, the Colts blew a 14­point lead for the first time coach Tony Dungy could remem­ber and lost to the Titans for the first time in eight games. 
"They make a 60-yard field goal, and you take your hat off to them. We put ourselves in that position where a field goal beats you, and it did," Dungy said. 

Se 



1111 
IS 

·UNIVERSITY HEALTII SERVICES 
The Health Center will CLOSE on Saturday, December 16th at Noon. 
The Health Center Pharmacy wiD CL<lSE on Friday, Decen1ber 15th at 6 PM. 
The Health Center and Pharmacy will RE-OPEN on Monday, January 15th at 8arn at our newly renovated building 
St. Liam Hall 

located north ofthe Main Building and behind Keenan and Stanford Halls. 
Ifyou will need prescriptions filled for the break, or ifyou have any questions, please call or stop in by December 15th. For further Information: Visit our website at http://uhs.nd..(~du 
Or call the HeaJtb Center-574-631-7497 or tbe Pharmacy: 574..631..6574 


Monday, December 4, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
DeBartolo Hall STUDY DATES AND TIMES: December 7: 7am to 3:00am Midnight Snacks! December 8: 7am to 3:00am December 9: 7am to 3:00am Decembea· 10: 7am to 3:00am Finals Week: December 11-14 R"""'" m•ailuble except when 
.•chetluled by the Regi.•trur's affice. 
December 15 DeBartolo Hall closes 30 minutes after last exam scheduled by the Registrar's Office. Midnight Snacks available during Study days. 
See Building Support Personnel ifyou have specific needs: Room 103, I04. 
~ 
Coleman-Morse: December 7-December 14. 1'1 Floor: 7:00am-4:00am 2"d floor : 7:00am-3:00am 3'u Floor: 7:00am-12am 
See Buildi11g Support Person ifyou have specific needs: Room 101 


O'Shaughnessy: Rooms available for open study except when scheduled by the Registrar's office. 
December 7 & 8: 8:00am to 1:00am Decembea· 9-12: 8:00am to 3:00am December 13 & 14: 8:00am to 1:OOam Rooms: 106, 107, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118,206,207,208, 209. 
~· Good Luck with Finals ~ 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME CHORALE & CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR 

MARIE P. DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 

8:00 p.m. ' Saturday, December 9, 2006 
2:00 p.m.' Sunday, December I 0, 2006 
LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE Pf.IUORMING ARTS ' 
liCKfTS ~I 0/$81$51$3 UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
NFL 

Arizona easily tops struggling St Louis 
Cardinals win 34-20; Cowboys defeat NFC East rivals New York; Patriots edge Detroit 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -The normally soft-spoken Marc Bulger had to speak up: St. Louis had just lost to the Arizona Cardinals at home, and the Rams' mis­takes Sunday made it obvious to the quarterback that some of his teammates are no longer committed. 
"I know there's some guys in here who don't care," Bulger said after a loss to Arizona that touched off a flurry of fin­ger-pointing. 
Prized by his coaches for his . calm demeanor, the quarter­back kept his voice down and didn't single out anyone after the Rams (5-7) were whistled for a season-high 126 yards in penalties. What eats at Bulger, he said, is the repeated mis­takes throughout the season. 
"There's more than one guy in this locker room that could care less that we're losing, or thinks it's OK to make mis­takes," he said. "When we get embarrassed and you think it's OK and keep making the same mistakes, it's not OK." 
Everything seemed OK for Arizona (3-9) on Sunday. Marcel Shipp scored three touchdowns, Edgerrin James had 115 yards rushing and Matt Leinart won for the sec­ond time in seven pro starts for Arizona, which made the most of the Rams' mistakes to win for the first time on the road this season. 
"I think we're getting better every week," said Leinart, who was 15-for-24 for 186 yards and one touchdown. 
James' 50th career 100-yard rushing game came against the NFL's worst run defense. Shipp's touchdowns were his first since 2002, when he was Arizona's feature back. 
James, who had 94 yards in the first meeting against the Rams in the third week of the season, didn't mind his team­mates finishing off drives. 
"I had an opportunity to go in, and I said, 'No, let Shipp go in,"' James said, "because they've been so supportive of me in practice and every­thing." 
New England 28, Detroit 21 
The Patriots know how to finish games. The Lions just finish themselves off. 
Corey Dillon scored two of his three touchdowns in the last 8:35, Detroit turned the ball over on its last three pos­sessions and New England avoided a stunning upset with a victory. 
Dillon gave the Patriots their first lead of the second half with his 4-yard scoring run with 2:33 left, backing up Tom Brady's belief that the Patriots nearly always have a chance to win. 
"Any time there's time left on the clock, we think we can," he said. "For so much of that game we didn't play with much energy or enthusiasm." 
That's not shocking, consid­ering Detroit has the NFL's worst' record over the last six years (23-69) and is 2-10 this season. It's a surprise, though, considering the Patriots (9-3) talked all week about not tak­ing any opponent for granted. 

"Embarrassing, frustrating, but a win is a win," fullback Heath Evans said. 
The Lions took an 18-13 lead after Evans was tackled in the end zone for a safety when he fell on Brady's fum­ble. Jason Hanson's 26-yard field goal, his fourth of the game, made it 21-13 less than 2 minutes into the fourth quarter. 
The Patriots needed a touch­down and a 2-point conver­sion just to tie. Could they actually lose to a team that started the day with nine loss­es one week after the Patriots beat a team with nine wins in a 17-13 victory over Chicago on the same field? 
Well, Detroit did squander a 10-0 lead in a 27-10 loss to Miami in its previous game. 
Dallas 23 New York Giants 20 
Bill Parcells has never been crazy about kickers. 
Martin Gramatica may have changed the Dallas coach's opinion. 
Gramatica, signed last Monday after Parcells cut the enigmatic Mike Vanderjagt, kicked a 46-yard field goal with a second left to give the Dallas Cowboys a win over the New York Giants and a two­game lead in the NFC East. 
"I've got to thank the Cowboys for giving me a sec­ond chance," said Gramatica, once a top kicker who had just one field goal in three-games since 2004. 
"It's been a rough couple of years for me," the journeyman said, "being out all last year and then not making any teams this year." 
The winning score was set up by a 42-yard pass by Tony Romo to Jason Witten and came just over a minute after the Giants, wearing their red jerseys for the first and only time this season, had tied the game at 20-all on a 5-yard TO pass from Eli Manning to Plaxico Burress. 
Gramatica, who also kicked field goals of 41 and 35 yards, was signed last week after the Cowboys cut Vanderjagt, who had received a three-year $5.3 million contract in the offseason. 
But being the new guy didn't keep Gramatica from bursting into one of his over-the-top celebrations: The diminutive kicker leaped into the arms of his teammates, while coach Bill Parcells broke into a wide smile on the sidelines as the ball sailed through. 
"Gramatica made me look good," Parcells said with a smile. "For a first game back in the league, you can't get more pressure than that for the division lead." 
It didn't look so good for Parcells on Gramatica's first kick, a 44-yard attempt on the Cowboys' opening drive. 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, December 4, 2006 
ND SWIMMING 

Swimmers, divers perform under pressure 
Both teams take third place-men at OSU, women at U.S. Open 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 

Competing alongside some of the top college teams in the country as well as sever­al Olympic athletes, No. 20 Notre Dame finished in third place this weekend at the 
U.S. Open 

Held at the Boilermaker .Aquatic Center in West 
Lafayette, Ind., the Irish tal­lied 89 points to finish behind Open champion Auburn (427 points) and Florida (266). 
Notre Dame was led by senior Katie Carroll who fin­ished ninth in the 200 freestyle with (2:03.75) and 17th in the 200 butterfly (2:12.73). Carroll was also part of the Irish 400 medley relay team that included sen­ior Julia Quinn, sophomore Christa Riggins and junior Caroline Johnson, which fin­ished fourth at 4:20.33. 
Freshman Stacey Nerud 
turned in her best perform­ance of the season, finishing second in the 200 individual medley. Nerud's second place effort was the highest finish for any Irish swimmer over the weekend. 
While the majority of the team competed in West Lafayette, the Notre Dame divers competed in Columbus at The Ohio State Invitational. 
The Irish had three divers place within the top-20 in one-meter diving. Natalie Stitt (11th), Lucy llirt (15th) and Tiffany Robak (16th) all turned in solid performances for Notre Dame. 

The Irish men also traveled to Ohio State this weekend, coming home with a third­place finish out of 11 teams. Notre Dame accumulated 601 points over the three days, finishing behind only No. 7 Minnesota, who won with 1193 points, and host Ohio State (749.5). 
Freshman MacKenzie LeBlanc posted the highlight performance for the Irish as he won the 200 butterfly in a pool-record time of 1:48.36. Sophomore Daniel Rave also turned in a strong perform­ance in the 200 breaststroke as he took fourth place with a time of 2:02.97. 
Notre Dame posted seven top-five finishes in all, including junior Jay Vanden Berg, senior Louis Cavadini, sophomore Sam Pendergast and senior Alan Carter. 
Neither men's coach Tim Welsh nor women's coach Carrie Nixon could be r~ached for comment Sunday evening. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Huskies cruise to victory over Texas Southern 
Price puts up 20 in Connecticut's victory; FSU upsets Florida 
Associated Press STORRS, Conn. The Connecticut Huskies are making the most of an extended stay at home to start the season. 
A.J. Price scored 20 points, Hasheem Thabeet tied a Connecticut record with 10 blocked shots and the 20th­ranked Huskies blew out Texas Southern 106-55 to win their 26th straight home game. 
The Huskies open the season with 11 games in either Storrs or Hartford, none against a Big East or Top 25 team. 
"We as a coaching staff have got to keep them, hopefully, in reality," coach Jim Calhoun said. "Today you didn't beat Carolina or Pittsburgh or Rutgers or any­one else. You beat Texas Southern, who we are fortunate enough to have better players than, on our home court, and we did a good job defensively." 
Thabeet, the Huskies' 7 -foot-3 center, tied the blocks record held by Donyell Marshall and Emeka Okafor. He also had seven points and four rebounds. 
"I can see everyday, I play bet­ter defense," said Thabeet, a freshman from Tanzania, who has been playing organized bas­ketball for just three years. "I belong here is what I am think­ing, playing defense, playing hard." 
Four other Huskies scored in double figures. Jerome Dyson had 19 points, Doug Wiggins had 17 and Marcus Johnson and Jeff Adrien each had 11. Adrien added nine rebounds for UConn. Price also had seven assists. 
"He knows when to feed guys and when not to," Calhoun said of Price, a sophomore point guard. "I just thought he looked like he had some spring and he played with a lot of energy." 
Leonta Matthews had 10 points to lead Texas Southern (2­
6). 
UCLA 61, UC Riverside 38 

Tearing up and down the court is UCLA's favorite way to play. So when the Bruins encounter an opponent that slows things down, frustration sets in and their fans nearly go to sleep. 
· Arron Affialo scored 13 points to help the top-ranked Bruins beat UC Riverside Sunday, giving them a 6-0 record for the first time since they won the 1995 national championship. 
"We got a lot of aggressive guys on this team that want to get up and down," Affialo said. "It's pretty difficult (to play slow)." 
Luc-Richard Mbah a Moute had 12 points and 12 rebounds in the Bruins' second blowout victory that ended their first week as the nation's top-ranked team in 11 years. They beat Long Beach State by 30 points last Tuesday night. Josh Shipp and Lorenzo Mata added 10 points each. 
"We're a fast-breaking team," point guard Darren Collison said. "It's real diflicult for us, but we did a good job in the second half standing our ground. We're the No. 1 team and everyone is trying to beat us, and they're going to do what it takes." 
Henrik Thomsen scored eight points for the Highlanders (3-5), who played a top-ranked team for the second time ever. In 1988, UCR stunned No. 1 Iowa 110-92 in the Chaminade Christmas Classic. 
The Highlanders controlled a slow tempo in the first half and were down by 10 at the break. 
"Early we were a little anx­ious," UCLA coach Ben Howland said. "We missed some open shots from 3-point range. That was a tough game because they were very patient on offense." 
UCR was limited to four points over the final 7 1/2 minutes on baskets by Justin Bell and Michael Creppy. The Highlanders shot 30 percent for the game and committed 12 turnovers -under their 20.2 average. 
"Some of those guys haven't been getting a lot of playing time," UCR interim coach Vonn Webb said. "We got some stops, but then we turned it over, gave up some easy baskets and these kind of things break you down." 
The Bruins were messy, too, with 13 turnovers, but they shot 68 percent from the floor in the second half and got to the free throw line nine more times than UCR. 
Florida State 70, Aorida 66 
AI Thornton is so important to Florida State that Seminoles coach Leonard Hamilton almost feels guilty about it. 
Still, Hamilton isn't shy about going to his team's biggest strength. 
Thornton scored 28 points, including two free throws with 4 seconds left, and Florida State upset No. 4 Florida. 
"It's a shame he has to go out and get 28 points every night for us to win," Hamilton said. "Tonight we had to go withAl." 
Thornton scored 18 in the sec­ond half, missing just once from the fioor. He finished 1 0-for-16 for the game and also had nine rebounds. 
"There's no doubt he was ready to play tonight," Hamilton said. 
The Seminoles (5-2), who had lost their previous two games by a total of 37 points, led 36-31 at the half and built the lead to 55­41 before Walter Hodge's 3­pointer with 3:02 left got the Gators to 62-59. Hodge's shot capped an 18-7 Florida run. 
Hodge hit another from long range to cut it to 68-66 with 53.2 seconds left, but Florida State's Toney Douglas blocked a 3-point attempt by Taurean Green with 4 seconds left and Thornton was fouled as he picked up the loose ball. 
Pittsburgh 74, Auburn 66 
The missed free throws down the stretch bothered Jamie Dixon far more than the final score. 
No. 2 Pittsburgh had most of a late 14-point lead wiped out and missed six straight free throws over the final 1:31, but still beat Auburn in the Panthers' first road game. 
"Not a lot of teams have a good road win like that and are 8-0 at this point," the Pitt coach said. "We won by eight on the some more free throws that might have changed some things against a very good team." 

Aaron Gray scored 16 points and grabbed 12 rebounds despite playing with a painful blister on his left foot and spend­-ing most of the second half in foul trouble. 

Gray grabbed a rebound after one of the missed foul shots and laid it in, then blocked an Auburn shot. 
"I was just trying to give my team a little bit of energy," said Gray, who developed the blister late in Pitt's last game against Robert Morris. 


$69.00 pfus taJ( 
S.JI TU(}{CD.Jf ~ :J.JI:NV.Jf_ (}{~ 13., 2007 
~C£./ISCE CJf_LL 574-631-200 
0 ~CE(}{"VE ~OV(}{'.l{OO 

Monday, December 4, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Saint Mary's falls to 1-5 after loss 
Team hopes to rebound against Carthage in tonight's home game 
By DAN COOPER and BILL 
BRINK 
Spons Writers 
In another close game, the Belles came up short Saturday night, losing to Washington University 66-62 at home. 
The win improved the Bears record to 3-3 while the Belles dropped to 1-5, extending their losing streak to three. 
"We just need to get out and play and get a win," guard Allison Kessler said. "[We] need to focus on the next game." 
The Bears jumped to an early lead due to the play of forward Rebecca Parker who 
scored nine of Washington's first 15 points. Washington would maintain control of the game throughout the first half. 
With 23 seconds left in the first half, senior guard Bridget Lipke hit a jumper to pull first 35 minutes, the Belles surged to a 20-10 run and took the lead, 56-55, with 
4:55 to go. 
Saint Mary's matched the Bears in forced turnovers 
2) which has dropped its last two games. In those con­tests, Carthage has averaged 56 points per game, down from 70.5 in its first two. 
The Lady Reds utilize their 

(15) and points scored off turnovers (17), but were out-rebound­ed (38-32) and shot a lower rate from the field (42 percent compared to Washington's 46). 
Washington regained the lead with an 8-2 run and held on for the win. 
Junior guard 
Allison Kessler was near­
"We just need to get out and play and get a win. [We] need to focus on the next game." 
Allison Kessler Belles guard 
HAMMES 

NOTRE DAME·~ 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574)631-6316 • www.ndtatolog.com 
"It's more ofnot really changing the way we play, but trying to cause more turnovers on their side." 
Allison Kessler Belles guard 
bench greatly -no starter averages over 
29.5 minutes. 
Forward Katie Jarger leads the team with 14 points and 8.8 rebounds per game. 
The Lady Reds have a p I u s -3 . 3 turnover per game margin 
automatic from the charity stripe, making 12 of her 15 free throw attempts as the Belles out shot the Bears from the line (66%-60%). 
Recent strug­gles were "not [due to] anything we haven't been as well as a 0.8 assists-to­turnovers ratio. Kessler feels that the problem Saint Mary's has had with turnovers stems not from the Belles' offense but their defense. 
"It's more of not really changing the way we play, but trying to cause more turnovers on their side," she said. "If we're going to allow high amounts of turnovers, we need to cause high amounts of turnovers." 
Contact Dan Cooper at dcooperl@nd.edu and Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

the Belles within five, send­ing the Belles into the locker room down 29-34 at half­time. 
Despite trailing for the 
doing," Kessler said. "[We need to] get better at what we're doing right." 
Saint Mary's will hit the court tonight at Carthage (2­
MONDAY AND TUESDAY 
DECEMBER 4·5 
8AM·10PM 
• 
25o/o" off Notre Dame logo gifts and apparel 

• 
Complimentary gift wrapping 

• 
Refreshments will be served 



•·Restrictions 
apply. See store for details. In-store only. Excludes class rings. Faculty ID required. 


The Varsity Shop at the Joyce Center will also be honoring the faculty discount from 9am-5pm. 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Badgers overcome Notre Dame again 
Wisconsin knocks the Irish out of NCAA Tournament for third consecutive season 
HY PHAM/The Observer Irish middle blocker Tara Enzweiler attempts to spike the ball in a 3-0 win over West Virginia Nov. 12. 
By DEVIN PRESTON 
Sports Writer 

Wisconsin had knocked the Irish out of the NCAA Tournament two consecutive times. 
This weekend, the Badgers made it three, beating the Irish 34-36, 26-30, 21-30 at UW Fieldhouse in Madison, Wise. Although the Irish strung together some impressive plays, they were not able to keep their season alive against the superi­or Badgers. 
Before the game, Irish captain Adrianna Stasuik said that the history between the Irish and the Badgers gave the Irish an "edge" of motivation. But that edge didn't overcome the talent of 1Oth-seeded Wisconsin. 
Notre Dame's offense was led by Stasiuk who tallied 12 kills. Wisconsin freshman Brittney Dolgner dominated with 21 kills at a hitting percentage of .545. The Badgers outhit the Irish .324 to .204. 
A well-balanced offense was key for Wisconsin. The three Badgers with the highest kill counts all had hitting percent­ages above .294 -higher than Notre Dame's team leader Kim Kristoff. 
Senior libero Danielle Herndon led all players with 17 digs, playing a big role in keep­ing her team's hope of an upset alive. 
"They're all aggressive, and they're scrappy, and their defense was great, especially in the first game they were out­digging us by five or six," said WISconsin coach Pete Waite. 
The scrappy play from Notre Dame forced Wisconsin to seven game points before they were fmally able to put the Irish away. 

"We played really well," said setter Jamel Nicholas. "We exe­cuted our game plan and fought for every point." 
Although Notre Dame was able to tie the score with Wisconsin late in the game, needing only two points to take the game, it was unable to win the battle for momentum and fell behind Wisconsin later in the match. 
"It would have helped to win," Nicholas said, "but it didn't set us back at all. We came out playing just as hard in the sec­ond game." 
Wisconsin opened the second game in dominant fashion with a 6-2 run. The Irish were able to go on a 7-2 run out of a time­out and take their first lead at 9­
8. The team did not allow the Badgers to gain more than a two-point lead until late, when a service error from Kristoff pre­ceeded Wisconsin's 8-2 run to put the Badgers ahead 28-22. After a timeout, WISconsin was able to win its second game of the night off a kill from junior Audra Jeffers. 
Notre Dame lost stride early in the third game with Wisconsin leading from its fourth point until the end of the match. The Irish made an attempt to regain control of the match with a kill from Mallorie Croal kicking off five consecutive points to nar­row the Wisconsin lead to 15­13. 
But the Irish were unable to overcome the Badgers, falling 21-30 after another Jeffers kill sealed the match. 
Contact Devin Preston at dprestol @nd.edu 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, December 4, 2006 
us," Thomas said. "But I don't 
see speed as the reason." 
Bowl 

Thomas and his defensive continued from page 24 teammates will try to slow LSU's fleet-footed pack of games." receivers -part of a squad 
"We want to stop answering that finished No. 4 in the final questions about Notre Dame not BCS standings and fell only to winning bowl games," said cap­No. 2 Florida and No. 9 Auburn tain and strong on the road. safety Tom That will be a Zbikowski. "We want to stop tough task, given 
Work toward that the Sugar Bowl
answering questions 
that goal began will be in front of a
about Notre Dame not 
at 6 a.m. today New Orleans crowd, when Notre winning bowl games.'' just 80 miles from Dame was the Tigers' Baton scheduled to Rouge campus. 
Tom Zbikowski
hold its first Still, Notre Dame practice after Irish safety said Sunday that it's learning its confident in its abili­opponent. ties. 
Irish coach "It's not like we Charlie Weis don't have talent said Sunday that that much of and can't match up with those Sugar Bowl preparation would guys," Thomas said. center on lining up "good guys against good guys." Notes: 
"We'll spend the next few + Both Weis and LSU coach weeks [with the No. 1 offensive Les Miles disclosed who they unit practicing against the No. 1 voted No. 2 in the coaches poll defensive unit]," he said, in an released Sunday. Weis, citing effort to simu-the Wolverine's 
late game com­win at Notre Dame petition during "USC made more plays in September, put 
the month-long than us, but I don't see Michigan in the 
layoff before the second spot behind 
speed as the reason. " 
game. Ohio State. Miles, 
The Irish despite being a allowed 404 Travis Thomas Michigan graduate total yards of Irish linebacker and a coach in Ann offense against Arbor for several USC -includ-years, voted ing 132 receiv-Florida No. 2 ing yards and because it won the three touchdown catches by SEC title. Florida finished No. 2 Trojans wideout Dwayne Jarrett in the both the AP, coaches and -which prompted many in the BCS standings and will face media to question Notre Dame's Ohio State in the National speed. Championship Game Jan. 8. 
The team wasn't so sure. "[USC] made more plays than + Notre Dame and LSU both 
ished second in swam the 100
Mary's swimmers 
the 500 free in free, finishing in
winning events and
5:22.69 and 8th in 1:02.59 and plac­the 200 free, fin­moving in the right ing 16th. ishing in 2:05.70. Freshman Sara
direction. " 
Aside from win­Niemann swam ning the team the 200 back­points, Gerbeth's Ryan Dombkowski stroke in 2:21.55 victory brought Belles coach and finished in enter the Sugar Bowl as at­large berths. Notre Dame was picked after finishing No. 11 in the final BCS regular-season standings while LSU finished No.4. 

+ The Irish held their annual football banquet Friday evening in the Joyce Center, with several players taking homo awards. Quarterback Brady Quinn won the Notre Dame Monogram Club MVP award, ol'fensive tackle Ryan Harris won the Guardian Lineman of the Year Award as the top offensive line­man and defensive end Victor Abiamiri won the Lineman of the Year Award from the Moose Krause Chapter of the National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame. 

Thomas won the Niek Pietrosante Award as "the indi­vidual who best exemplifies the courage, loyalty, teamwork, dedication and pride shown by the late Irish All-America full­back." 
SMC SWIMMING 

Gerbeth leads Belles to sixth place at DePauvv Invitational 
100 breaststroke, finishing in "Both our A and B relay teams warm-ups. It was the first time new season bests. Tighe,
Prospective recruits 
1:18.14. swam well at the end o!' the the freshmen had swam a same­Niemann, Carroll, Hanson, soph­
see team perform well "Tighe had a great meet. She meet," Dombkowski said. "They day prelim-final meet. omore Jennifer Nicol, sophomore moved down half a second in the showed a lot of heart and deter­"It was rough," Dombkowski Leah Bocinksy and senior Sarah 50 free," Dombkowski said. "It mination at the end of two long said. "The prelims were swum in Budd all lowered their best times 
By BILL BRINK was an encouraging move. She days." the morning and the finals in the on the season. Sporrs Writer was stuck in the low 27s the The days were long indeed. evening. It was an energetieally entire year, and moving up was The team left at 5 a.m. Friday taxing day on the entire team." 
Sophomore Melissa Gerbeth exciting." and drove four hours to the meet, Several other Belles, although Contact Bill Brink at scored 48 of Saint Mary's 258 Freshman Kayla Ferguson fin­arriving in time for morning not part of the scoring, posted wbrink@nd.edu points en route to a sixth-place ished 12th in the 1 00 backstroke finish at the DePauw Invitational in·1 :08.24. Freshman Lindsey Friday and Nelis finished 11th Saturday. in the 200 
Gerbeth won the "There were a couple freestyle in 1,650-yard 2:05.10, and 11th
recruits at this
freestyle outright again in the 500 
meet and it's great 
with a time of free with a time of 
11:04. She fin­for them to see Saint 5:34.51. She also 
Finally, offensive guard Dan Santucci took home the Knute Rockne Student-Athlete Award from the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley and tight end John Carlson won the Westwood One/ State Farm Student Athlete of the Year Award. 
Editor's Note: The Sugar Bowl is sponsored by Allstate. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 


additional benefits to the program. 

"It helped in terms of recruiting and team morale," Belles head coach Ryan Dombkowski said. "There were a couple recruits at this meet, and it's great for them to see Saint Mary's swimmers winning events and moving in the right direction. They see that it's possible to come to Saint Mary's and be a great student and a successful athlete." 
Saint Mary's had eight swim­mers score points in the meet. Junior Kelly Tighe fmished 11th in the 50 free with a time of 
26.52 seconds and 15th in the 5th place. She fin­
ished 12th in the 200 free with a time of 2:05.47 and 14th in the 500 free in 5:40.87. 
Some relative unknowns also performed well. Freshman Katie Carroll placed 10th in the 200 backstroke with a time of 
2:44.59. Sophomore Shannon Hansen fmished 16th in the 200 individual medley with a time of 
2:33.57. Freshman Jennifer Lebiedz swam the 200 butterfly in 2:35.67, good for 14th place. 
The relay teams also per­formed well, combining to score 128 points. 



Monday, December 4, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

Lunch and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Thursday, December 7 12:00 p.m.-1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal lunch at the Co-Mo. Everyone IS welcome and confldentlahty IS assured lunch will be served 

CURE COUNCil 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 


Revenge 
continued from page 24 
defenseman Kyle Lawson (goal, assist). 
Irish goalie Dave Brown made 38 saves in two games, surren­dering just three goals. 
The two teams combined for only.16 penalties in two games despite a first contest dominat­ed by big checks and numerous serums in front of the nets. 
"Can you imagine college football teams playing Saturday and Sunday nights," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "Hockey is an emotional, physical sport and Saturday nights are usually toned down from Friday nights." 
In the first game, three quick goals midway through the third period gave the Irish a 3-1 victo­

ryThang got the 'Tm sick ofwatching 
Johnson with scoring started guys stand around and Rogers. "I've with a shorthand-fish for pucks. Too many been there. It's 
not easy coming

ed ~oal at. 9:14· guys stand there like 
Junwr Michael , in cold, especial­
Bartlett hit they re holding a hoe -ly when the Thang with a get a shovel.,, momentum is pass at center ice going the other and the freshman way."
Tavis MacMillan
skated down the Thang then right side of the Alaska coach opened up the 
chances to win 6-2. 
"They throw pucks from everywhere,". MacMillan said. "They get pucks on net and crash the net. We seem to think that you have to create a Van Gogh to score a goal -you have to create a masterpiece. I don't understand our mentality that way." 
Irish left wing Evan Rankin, making his first appearance in several weeks, knocked starting goalie Johnson out of the game for a portion of the second peri­od with a wraparound goal 2:30 into the period for the 2-1 Irish lead. Junior Wylie Rogers, who had not played since a Nov. 24 tie with Lake Superior State, took over between the pipes, but surrendered three goals on seven shots to the Irish before Johnson was put back in the game. 
"I'm sure it was difficult," 
Jackson said of 
replacing 
ice, muscled past an Alaska defenseman and slipped the puck through Johnson's pads. 
The goal, Notre Dame's fourth shorthanded tally of the season, gave the team a much needed spark as it pounded in two more in the next two minutes. 
Thirty seconds later defense­man Brett Blatchford secured his first collegiate goal when he put a wrist shot past Johnson's blocker side. Center Garret Regan picked up this assist, his third of the year. 
The final goal came when Van Guilder took control of the puck in the Nanooks zone. The junior right wing skated towards the middle and got off a shot as he was being tripped up. The goal ended Van Guilder's four game scoring drought, which went back to a 4-0 win over Bowling Green Nov. 11. 
"It takes a lot of pressure off, it was pretty nice to get one tonight and hopefully we can keep it going," Van Guilder said. 
Despite outshooting the Nanooks 34-22, the Irish trailed for most of the game as Alaska picked up an early goal 10 min­utes into the contest. Sophomore Ryan Muspratt ripped a shot that bounced off Brown's face mask and rang the inside of the crossbar. Referee Matt Shegos initially waved the goal off but when Notre Dame scooped the puck up and scored on the ensuing odd-man rush, the call was reviewed and reversed. 
"On the bench we all thought [the Alaska shot] had gone in," Jackson said. "That's why we have instant replay." 
Alaska held on to the lead for two periods before the Irish offense exploded in the third. Notre Dame was able to come from behind by physically wear­ing down the Nanooks and beating them to the loose pucks late in the game. ''I'm sick of watching guys stand around and fish for pucks," MacMillan said. "Too many guys want to stand there like they're holding a hoe -get a shovel." 
In the second game of the series, Notre Dame neutralized Alaska's offense -outshooting the Nanooks 33 to 19 -and stymied its defense and goal­tending version of musical chairs with speed and scoring Notre Dame lead 
to 3-1 at 4:27 

when he beat Rogers high glove side on his first shot faced. He received the pass from Lawson in the corner while he curled toward the net along the top of the right face off circle, getting the shot off wide open from inside the slot. 
Lawson added the first goal of his career at 8:15 and the fourth of the game with a slap shot from the right point that deflected off a Nanooks player and into the net just below the crossbar. Van Guilder slapped in his second of the game for the 5-llrish lead at 9:13. 
"It was kind of getting to me," Lawson said. "It's tough to get that first one, but hopefully a couple more will come." 
The Nanooks and Irish exchanged goals nine seconds apart in the 16th minute of the second period for the 6-2 final. On the power play, Alaska's Brandon Knelsen got the first goal of his career before center Jason Paige answered for the Irish with his sixth on the sea­son. 
The two teams exchanged first period goals in a slow start reminiscent of the first two periods of play Saturday. 
"We were sluggish out of the gate," Jackson said. "It was just a matter of getting back to play­ing the way we are capable of playing" 
The Irish capitalized on a turnover for the lead at 12:13 on their own blue line when Nanooks right wing Adam Naglich coughed up the puck to Mark Van Guilder, creating a three-on-two. Van Guilder drove up the left side of the ice and fired a low wrist shot at Johnson's five-hole that was saved. Van Guilder, however, shoveled in the puck seconds later from the front of the crease with an assist from Noah Babin and Garrett Regan. 
Alaska tied the game at 14:50 when the puck deflected off an Irish defender and bounced onto the stick of Nanooks left wing Kyle Greentree in the right slot. Brown was still caught on the left side of the net and Greentree slid the puck into the open low right side. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu and Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, December 4, 2006 
I Notre Dame freshman guard Ashley Barlow drives against Indiana guard Leah Enterline in Notre Dame's 54-51 loss Sunday. 
Split 
continued from page 24 

wanted for mo'st of the shot clock, until Charel Allen got the ball on the right wing. 
"I had a wide open look and it just didn't fall," Allen said. 
Although Allen missed the potentially game-tying shot, she did have one of the few bright days shooting for the Irish, posting 17 points and 9 rebounds to match a career high. Melissa D'Amico was the only other Irish player in dou­ble figures. The junior center recorded the second double­double of her college career with 15 points and 10 boards. 
In the first half, things looked grim for the Irish. They shot only 22.6 percent from the floor, including a dismal eight percent from beyond the arc. 
"We're not a very good shooting team -1-for-14 from the 3-point line," McGraw said. 
This poor shooting effort was coupled with tough defense against the Hoosiers. Notre Dame held Indiana to just 33.3 percent shooting while out­rebounding the Hoosiers in the first half 28-15. But Notre Dame's poor scoring perform­ance was enough to give Indiana a 27-22 halftime lead. 
"We played pretty well ­that's the fewest points we've given up all-year," McGraw said. "We just need to find somebody that can make a shot right now." 
For McGraw, the main half­time adjustment had to be Notre Dame's shooting game. 
"We talked at halftime about just stepping in and just shoot­ing 15-footers," McGraw said. "We can't make shots right now so it's going to be hard for us to win." 
This change worked effec­tively early in the second half, with the Irish going on a 7-0 run to start the second half. The game remained within two points or fewer for the first seven minutes of the half until another big Irish run -this time 10 straight Notre Dame points -gave the Irish their biggest lead of the night at 41­33. 
"We were getting closer in, I think that was when Charel was hitting some shots inside like 10 feet in, [D'Amico] hit some shots inside," McGraw said. "We were getting a high­er percentage shot at that point." 
But the Hoosiers responded quickly, going on their own 9-0 run over the next two minutes to bring the score close. During the Hoosier stretch, Smith took over the game, scoring six straight points of her own -four from the char­ity stripe, two from the floor ­to will Indiana back to a 42-41 lead. 
The game would remain tight until the end, when unforced Irish errors handed the game over to the Hoosiers. 
Notre Dame 61, Michigan 58 
With four seconds to play, Irish guard Tulyah Gaines sank two free throws to give the Irish a 59-58 lead against the Wolverines en route to an Irish win. 
"Tulyah's [free throws] were really, really big because that's how we won the game," McGraw said. "We don't win the game if she doesn't hit one of those free throws." 
After a turnover by Wolverine guard Janelle Cooper and a foul by forward Melinda Queen, Allen sank two more free throws to ice the lead. 
Despite winning by three points, the Irish were down by four with 22 seconds to play, but a 3-pointer by Allen brought the Irish to within one. 
Allen was one of three Irish players in double figures with 15 points, alongside Gaines 
(11) and freshman guard Ashley Barlow (14). 
Even though those three led the Irish in scoring, McGraw credited her entire team with the win. 
"The great thing was that everybody contributed," she said. "Everybody did some­thing. It was a real team effort." 
This teamwork was clear down the stretch. Freshman guard Melissa Lechlitner was able to find Barlow for a 3­pointer. 
Allen nailed threes and swiped errant passes to give the Irish the ball back. Freshman center Erica Williamson notched a steal and set the screen for Allen's three near the end. And with five seconds remaining, forward Crystal Erwin grabbed a board, giving Gaines a chance to make the game-winning free throws. 
Despite the win, McGraw was still disappointed in her team's rebounding. Michigan out-rebounded the Irish 45-32. 
"We just refused to box out, and it's really disappointing," McGraw said. 
The win was the second big comeback for the Irish in the young season, the first being an 85-81 overtime victory against Bowling Green Nov. 13. 
"Things haven't been easy for us and they know every game is going to be a dog­fight," McGraw said. "They really have a lot of inner drive and I think a lot of that comes from Tulyah. I think that she is a great leader for us. She's always encouraging the team." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 

Out of the timeout, Notre and rebound. I'll stick to that Dame guard Colin Falls nailed a and in the years past if we had
Upset 

3-pointer capping off an 11-0 defended and rebounded better, continued from page 24 run from which Maryland we would have been in the would not reeover. The Irish NCAA Tournament." 
tions like that tonight [were] making plays," guard Colin Falls said. "We really grew up tonight and I think it's a great confidence builder for us to continue on our non-conference schedule." 
Notre Dame had four players in double figures. MeAiarney led all scorers, followed by for­ward Rob Kurz (16 points), Falls (14 points) and guard Bussell Carter (13 points). Sophomore Zach llillesland made his first eareer start and contributed with eight points, nine rebounds and four assists. 
The Irish trailed the Terrapins 32-29 at the half after guard Eric Hayes nailed a 3-pointer to take the lead into the break. The teams traded baskets early in the second half until McAlarney took over. Tied at 49, the sophomore scored eight consecu­tive points ­

two 3-pointers and one layup ­to take an eight point lead and force Maryland  "We really grew up tonight and I think it's a great confidence builder for us to  zone and man­to-man defenses. The Terrapins cut the lead to six points after  
coach· Gary Williams into calling a timeout with 8:18  continue on our non-conference schedule."  guard Greivis Vasquez (13 points on 4-of­15 shooting)  
remaining.  nailed a 3-point­ 
"This was a big stage and I'm not the type  Colin Falls Irish guard  er with 5:30 remaining, but would never pull  
to  back  down  any closer.  
from  anyone,"  "If  we  can  

McAlarney said. "Obviously I'm . defend, we're going to be a really proud of the way I played dangerous basketball team," but all our guys tonight really Falls said. "We're an NCAA stepped up." Tournament !earn if we defend 
scored 52 second half points, Notre Dame controlled the inducting a stretch where they tempo from the beginning of made 11 consecutive field goals the game, jumping out to a from 13:58 to 7:23 left in the quick 7-2 lead heading into the game. media timeout with 15:55 left in "We just stayed really poised the first half. Kurz had five 
in an away atmos­ points in that  
phere, they have  stretch  - the  
all the fans and everything," McAlarney said. "Sometimes it's  "This was a big stage and I'm not the type to back down from  first two bas­kets of the g a· m e . Maryland  
tough, it's hard to get going because  anyone.  would respond with a 10-5  
they have such momentum but we just stayed real  Kyle McAiarney Irish guard  run of its own to tie the game at 22 with 5:20  

poised, put good pressure and we just controlled the tempo. And we just knocked down shots." 
Notre Dame limited Maryland's production on the offensive end after it got up 60­49 relying on a combination of 
remaining in 
the first half. 
Terrapins for­ward Ekene Ibekwe (13 points on 5-of-7 shooting) led Maryland in that stretch with seven points. 
Maryland guard D.J. Strawberry led the Terps with 17 points on 6-of-11 shooting to go along with his six steals. Notre Dame's attention now turns to Alabama, who visits the Joyce Center Thursday­the team's second consecutive game against a ranked oppo­nent. 
McAlarney said he's excited to combine the momentum from Sunday's win with Notre Dame's home atmosphere. 
"I love our fans and hopefully all of them show up on Thursday," McAlarney said. "They've been great so far this year." 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 


Quit 
Being Gassy 
and help the environment. 

1111 
IS 
s 


carpool with at least one other person tomorrow, December 5th, and gain access to the first four rows of the C1 parking lot as part of Graphic Design Ill's campaign to reduce C02 emissions. 
Every year America produces approximately 15,000 pounds of C02 per person, more than any other country in the world. By simply carpooling twice a week you could reduce C02 emissions by 1,500 pounds. 
ake a difference. Carpool. 



Monday, December 4, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 -' 
ALEC WHITE

JOCULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 

CROISSANTWORLD 

'!E..S, \-\OW 5/lo.t>. W\"fi-IOU"T 
0\-4 . -ri-\P,.""\ s 
E. ~U'J '111/1-10 :>A'\S '1-\0W AlbouT THE. 
~ MONOUlC:2UE.S. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 lnexperien~ed in 
1 End place for 35 Italian volcano many a car 
36 Assistant in aaccident 
con game 6 Mire 

39 Nix by Nixl)n, 9 "Shhh!" e.g. 14 Novelist Calvino 40 Mire 15 Bother 42 Peanuts 16 The "U" of UHF 44 1960's sitcom ghoul on the
17 Astronaut's terrace?
attire 47 1976 and :wo1,
18 Fluffy scarf 
e.g.: Abbr. 19 Go into 
48 Sunbathers 20 Not the real shade Charlie of 
49 Founded: Abbr.
Star-Kist ads? 50 Korean

23 Born: Fr. 
automaker 24 Big part of an 
53 What 20-, 29-,
elephant 

44-and 25 Ambulance 53-Across are worker, for short of each other 
26 Tetley product 56 Actress Sarandon
29 Vintage French wines? 59 "Exodus" ~ero 
32 Rabble-rouse 60 Muscat native 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
H 0 ME 
F AlE E 
G E T 5 
A W A Y R I 
B 0 

5 E WHEAT PINS.WHA A E R I FlY E N D T I M E S R A I 5 E U P A L A M 0 D E 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
, two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HIS C.OME.t>'\ SREP..t::> A"-lt:> su-rr~t:.. \-\E.'s se.a.N Fo~ ~11\N'r\ANC>\..E. C:OI'\t-\E.NTS Af,ouT 
TI-\E. WEII\.1"1-!E..f!... 11\NO 'SQUIRR.E..\.S 'To AN'\ONe 
WILLSHORTZ 
61 Prank 62 Lower, as the 
lights 63 Stirred up 64 With feigned 
shyness 65 Reverse of WNW 66 Trap 
DOWN 1 "Start eating!" 2 Reply to "Who's 
there?" 3 Brownish gray 4 Annual award 
named for a Muse 5 Stressful spot 6 The Sultan of Swat 7 Smell 8 Uncle Sam facial feature 9 Director 30 Have the throne 43 Racetrack 53 Bucket Tarantino habitues
31 Emphatic no 54 "Exodus" author 10 Arm bone 45 Deface 
32 In armed conflict 55 Poker player's
11 Major defense 46 Like beds before declaration
33 Pesky swarm housekeeping
contractor 56 Anatomical
12 "But I heard him 35 Catch sight of 50 Australian "bear'' pouch
exclaim, _ he 51 Word before
37 Lollygag 
57 Tres-dos 38" luck!" 
" tube or circle 
13 Driveway -52 Off the direct 58 Muddy surface 41 Effectiveness course enclosure 21 Bye-byes 
22 Referee For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
26 Pisa landmark Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
27 French political crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
divisions 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 28 Regarding 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young29 City on solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords.

Biscayne Bay 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name _______________________ Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State ____ Zip______ 
JUMBLE 

J~m&rn. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
REVVE 
j 
1 
rx 

©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
POTIV 
j

I I r () 
FLIEBE 

rJ In
1 
www.jumble.com 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Brian Bonsall, 25; Anna Chlumsky, 26: Holly Marie Combs, 33; Julianne Moore, 46 
Happy Birthday: Just when you think you have everything and everyone figured out, you will end up with a whole new set ofcircumstances. Learn to finish what you start if you want to gel ahead this year. Your numbers are II, 20, 23, 34, 37,41 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Venture out and try your hand at something new. Take in a trade show or auend a function that will allow you to meet people who have similar interests. An e-mail or phone call witt have an impact on your future. 3 stars 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Your emotions will take over, so plan a quiet day with passion in mind or at least spending time with someone you really enjoy heing with. Keep things simple and you will avoid any traumatic events. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Spend time nurturing a meaningful relationship. The more attention you are willing to give, the better the connection will become. This isn't a time to keep secrets. Share your innermost thoughts. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): A change of plans will lead to an exciting adventure that you won't want to miss. Get out and socialize or invite people over if you want to get the full b~nefit of the day. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Getting together with friends, family or doing something with children will leave you with mixed emotions regarding your own personal plans for the future. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may be treading on thin ice. Someone may give you the impression everything is OK when it is really dependent on how much you do or what you say. 2 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Do something nice for a friend, neighbor or relative and you will get something in return. If you have children, plan something you can do together. A new, challenging exercise will make you feel good. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): The more activities you have going on in your own space, the better. You can accomplish plenty if you are organized and set a time frame around each thing you do. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your mind will be on work. Don't waste too much time or thought over something you can't change. There are things that you aren't fully aware of but will be in due time. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Do something nice for the ones you love. Someone will appreciate your time if you help him or her out. Nurturing others may not be what you enjoy doing most but, today, it will pay off in returns. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jau. 20-Feb. 18): The possibility of making extra money will arise. Don't tum it down but make sure everything is legitimate before you proceed. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Get involved in whatever deal is on the table. You stand to make some money. Someone will give you a gift or turn you on to an investment. Don't go overboard. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are a seeker of fame and fortune. You enjoy life and live it to its fullest. You are an exciting and demanding individual with plenty of potential. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Wake up, boys. Time to go home 
I 
WHAT TH!': H05T5 W!':R!': STUCK WITH WH!':N TH!': PARTY !':ND!':O. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested t)y the above car­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Monday, December 4, 2006 
page 24 
fOOTBALL 

Irish earn date with No.4 LSU in Sugar Bowl 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 

Notre Dame was selected to face LSU in next month's Sugar Bowl -the program's second BCS berth in as many seasons -but the Irish said Sunday 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

' 
Notre Dame upends No. 23 Maryland in BB&T Classic 81-74 
By BOB GRIFFIN Spons Writer 

Notre Dame guard Kyle McAlarney scored a career-high 18 points on 6-of-11 shooting and the Irish defeated No. 23 Maryland 81-74 in the BB&T Classic at the Verizon Center in Washington D.C. Sunday -their first game against a ranked opponent all season. 
It was Notre Dame's second consecutive victory against Maryland, the last coming in the first round of the BB&T Classic in 2002 when the Irish knocked off the defending champions 79­67. 
"Younger guys on this team that really haven't been in posi­
see UPSET/page 22 
after bowl pairings were announced that the January trip to New Orleans will be more about business than pleasure. 
The Irish (1 0-2) have strug­gled in their last three games against marquee opponents ­falling 34-20 to Ohio State in last year's Fiesta Bowl, 47-21 to Michigan on Sept. 16 and 44-24 at Southern California Nov. 25. 
"We need to get off to a fast start lin the Jan. 3 matchup with the Tigers (1 0-2)I." said Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn. "Any time you get behind by two or three scores ... you almost get desperate." 

That might also be a good way to describe Notre Dame's feeling toward winning a bowl game -a feat the program hasn't accomplished since the 1994 Cotton Bowl against Texas A&M. Since then, Notre Dame has played in eight bowl games, 
Shell shocked 

Irish forward Luke Zeller defends against Maryland's Bambal Osby in the first half of Notre Dame's 81-74 win over Maryland Sunday in Washington D.C. 
HOCKEY 

ND shows no patience for N anooks 
By DAN MURPHY and 
KYLE CASSILY 
SportS Writers 

No. 5 Notre Dame got a polar-bear sized load off its back and swept No. 14 Alaska in a two-game series at the Joyce Center this weekend ­the same Nanooks team that beat the Irish in three straight meetings to close out last sea­son, including two losses to knock them from the CCHA playoffs. 
The Irish (12-3-1, 7-2-1 CCHA) defeated the Nanooks (6-4-4, 4-3-3 CCHA) 3-1 and 6­2 to move out of a tie for third place with Alaska in the league standings and three points behind league-leading No.4 Miami. 
"A whole lot faster, a whole lot bigger, a whole lot stronger, a whole lot better coached, a whole lot better goaltending ­a whole lot of everything," Alaska coach Tavis MacMillan said of Notre Dame's play in comparison to the Nanooks on the weekend. 
The Irish were led by junior right wing Mark Van Guilder, who regained the scoring touch he had lost the previous two weekends and beat Nanooks goaltender Chad Johnson three times in two games, and left wing Ryan Thang (two goals) and 
see REVENGE/page 21 and lost them all. 


Not that the statistic will ham­per the Irish, said captain and linebacker Travis Thomas. "I think morale is strong," he said. "We obviously want to end that streak of not winning bowl 
see BOWL/page 20 
ND WOMEN'S 
BASKETBALL 
Tealll goes 1-1 against Big 10 foes 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Notre Dame split two games against Big Ten teams this weekend, beating Michigan on the road 61-58 Friday before falling to Indiana 54-51 Sunday. 
The games were both close to the finish, marked by tough defense and strong play down the stretch. Unfortunately for Notre Dame, it was only able to pull out one win. 
"I thought that was a really disappointing loss [to Indiana] especially in light of how we came out and played our last game [at Michigan l." Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "I thought we had the game in hand and just really beat our­selves." 
Indiana 54, Notre Dame 51 
With only six seconds in the game, Irish guard Charel Allen lost her dribble with the Irish down three, leading to a steal from Hoosiers forward Whitney Thomas to cement Indiana's 54-51 win. 
After the steal, the Irish fouled Hoosier guard Kim Roberson. Roberson missed the free throw attempt, but the Irish could not get a last-sec­ond shot off, ending the game. 
Going into the final seconds, Notre Dame and Indiana had traded leads throughout the second half, but a turnover by Allen gave the Hoosiers the ball back, letting Indiana guard Nikki Smith nail a jump­shot to push the Hoosier lead to three. 
On the possession following the Smith jumper, the Irish could not find the look they 
see SPLIT/page 22 


SMC SWiMMING ND VOU..EYBJUl SMC BASKETBALL ND SWIMMING 
w 

c.) Wisconsin eliminates The women's team
DePauw Washi~on 66 
WOMEN1SSOCCER IRISH INSIDER
z Invitational the Irish in the first Saint ary's 62 takes third in the U.S. Saint Mary's finishes round of the NCAA The Belles fall to Open, while the men's
=:5 

sixth as potential Tournament. Washington University squad takes third in The 
Irish fall.to:North Carolina 2-1 in
c:s 
Ohio State Invitational recruits attend meet. but take on Carthage

Cl: 

Nation~l-titl~~~a~Q. after topping
tonight.
!; 

page 20 page 19 page 19 page 18 

---·-;Fio~a~r;~,~~~4ltin ·semis. 
-:~::· -" '·· :. .: ··~-~ 



