
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 3 THURSDAY, AUGUST 24,2006 
ND, SMC excel on ranking lists 

University nabs No. 20 spot; College still leads Midwest Comprehensives 
By KATIE PERRY 
Assistant News Editor 
A flurry of rankings recently announced by top national publica­tions once again placed Notre Dame and Saint Mary's in the upper eche­lon of American academia -dis­tinctions still esteemed by leader­ship from both campuses. 
Notre Dame placed No. 20 in the 2007 U.S. News & World Report ranking of national universities -a two-point slip from last year's placement. In the 2006 list, the University tied Vanderbilt at No. 18. 
Associate Vice President for News and Information Don Wycliff said rankings have meaning for their readers. However, he said, "precise­ly what that meaning is and whether [readers] attach a lot of importance to a two-point differ­ence" is something the publication's editors should decide. 
Regardless, Notre Dame's position as a top-20 school is "extremely important" to the University, he said. 
"Notre Dame obviously values a good ranking," Wycliff said. "I don't think we need to apologize for valu­ing that. We try to put things into perspective and recognize we have certain strengths and certain things that are becoming strengths." 
Princeton University nabbed the top spot and was followed by fellow Ivies Harvard and Yale at second 
see RANKINGS/page 8 
Cable installation complete in all27 dorms 
By BECKY HOGAN 
News Writer 
Dreams of "Pardon the Interruption," Rachael Ray's recipes and Kristen Cavallari in a swimsuit are now a reality for Notre Dame students, thanks to the University's installation of Comcast cable in all 27 dorms. 
The process, which began in December 2005 and continued throughout the sum­mer, went hand-in-hand with the instal­lation of wireless Internet access. 
Notre Dame made its decision follow­ing an investigation into other universi­ties' policies. 
"In looking at other institutions, we realized other schools [provided] cable. We realized that we needed to upgrade ResNet and so we figured we might as well install cable," said Jeffrey Shoup, director of Residence Life and Housing. 
see CABLE/page 8 

STUDENT SENATE 



Group discusses plans for '06-'07 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 
The wheels started turning in the Student Senate Monday as senators gathered for their first meeting of the 2006-07 school year. 
University Director of Ticket Operations Josh Berlo and Associate Director of Ticketing Maja Hansen spoke to senators about changes that were made to the football ticket exchange program -a procedure that allowed students to swap a foot­ball ticket from their student booklet for a non-student ticket. 
Tickets can be exchanged on the Tuesday before a home game from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. at the Gate 10 Box Office at the Joyce Center. In previous years, students could exchange them on Wednesday as well. 
Berlo said there has been "rampant abuse" of the ticket exchange process in recent years, as students have sold their tickets for profit on Web sites like Ebay.com. 
"[Tickets] were getting out into the secondary market," said Berlo, adding that the tick­et exchange process was designed to provide tickets for close family members or friends 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Shappell, Andrichik optin1istic 
Grab and Go changes, College Readership Program underway 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 

Lizzi Shappell and Bill Andrichik wasted no time for­warding the agenda they pro­posed when the two were elected student body president and vice president last year. 
"So far I feel like we've made progress, and it's only the sec­ond day of classes," Shappell said. 
Their combined experience in student government and the groundwork they laid in the spring and over the summer has allowed them to hit the ground running, she said. 
Andrichik said the pair has used its time in office so far to make "some big groundwork" on large initiatives. 
"The rest of [the initiatives] we are confident we can accomplish," Andrichik said. 
Their administration has already fulfilled its campaign promise to improve Grab and Go options, the pair said. 
Last spring, students filled out food preference surveys. Andrichik personally tabulated the results, then worked with Food Services to discuss the cost effectiveness of the top choices. 
On Monday, when Grab and Go service opened for the first time this year, students could 
see SHAPPELL!page 6 

-not strangers on the Internet. 
As a result, students who wish to exchange their student tickets for a non-student one must provide the first and last name of the person who will be using their ticket. 
"That puts the onus on the student to tell us who is going to use their ticket. ... The other option was to do away with the program," Berlo said. 
The ticket office will only exchange 300 student tickets per home game and 750 for the UCLA game, since it is at the 
see SENATE/page 6 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, August 24, 2006 


INSIDE COLUMN 


Temporary tovvnie 
I knew it was true when the kind woman reached over the counter to hand me my bag ofnewly purchased home accessories. 
Her blue eyes youthfully pierced through her worn complex­
ion as she thanked me for shopping at my local Family Dollar. 
I had become a townie. 
After attending Saint Mary's for three years, I had 

never actually con­Kelly Meehan sidered South Bend my home. True, I did 
Saint Mary's
utilize the city's bars and restaurants, but Editor only for a brief time before I would quickly return to the safe surroundings of the collegiate "bubble" in which I lived. 
This year, however, things are a bit dif­ferent. 
I moved into my Saint Peter's Street abode-which idyllically resembles a gin­gerbread house -only to discover not only did having an off-campus residence mean no parietals or coin laundry but also an entire readjustment ofone's personal lifestyle. 
Never did I think I would call Family Dollar my favorite store, walking there sometimes twice each day, but I do. 
Never did I think I would live between both a lawyers' office and a mental reha­bilitation center, but I do. 
Never did I think I would wander bare­foot to my neighbors' or go to McDonald's twice in one day, but the thing is that I have. 
I paint beer pong tables a light blue hue in my backyard at all hours ofthe night. I witness neighborhood children fight in the 
U.S. volleyball association standard size sand volleyball court that is my back yard. 
I watch in awe as mullet-clad men race their pick-up trucks through the intricate alleyways that run parallel and perpendic­ularly near my home. 
My roommates and I have named the potentially problematic mouse that fre­quents our kitchen Stuart little, and we also stick our head out ofthe skylight that adorns the steep slope of our second floor roof. 
I have had a bungee-corded beach chair rest happily upon my roof and prayed that I would not become the stereotypical bankrupt college student, spending seem­ingly endless funds on bars, booze, bills and, ofcourse, new home decor. 
I can no longer assume the majority of my neighbors will be Midwestern Catholic girls, but I can anticipate the booming base echoing out ofmy neighbor's Chevy Impala each afternoon. 
Quick trips to the Grotto and late nights at Trumper are no longer done with ease, but neighborhood block parties and walks to Corby's are. 
I no longer walk the lakes, but rather run the East Race river path. 
Warm cookies and salad bars are no longer available at my first sign ofhunger, but a walk to Macri's and Mac and Cheese is. 
So it is true. Sometimes life as a townie is tough, rough and flat out crazy, but I am loving every minute of it. And ifyou are lucky enough, maybe someday you too can appreciate the fun times that come with being a townie -ifonly temporarily. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obseruer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT SHOULD BE THE UNIVERSITY'S NEXT CONSTRUCTION PROJECT? 

Andre Valdivia Fernando Quijano Melia West Huadong Sam Chen Mallory Mecham Peter Hadley 
senior junior sophomore grad student sophomore junior Carroll Carroll Breen-Phillips off-campus Cavanaugh Carroll 
''A 'The ''A girls' dorm ''An amusement ''A landing port "Renovating the ''Afewmore Octagon."' right next to park with roller for spaceships Brownson hideous and Carroll." coasters themed on top of bathrooms and completely after every Fitzpatrick. " the room with worthless dorm." the couch. " geodesic domes 





modeled after the marvel ofmodem architecture, Stepan Center." 
IN BRIEF 

Father Reginald Foster, principal Latin scholar for Pope Benedict XVI, will be giving the lecture "Is Latin Really Dead: Why the Academy and the Church Should Preserve the Latin Language" today at 4:30 
p.m. in room 120 of the Law School. 
As part of the Summer Classic Film Series, "The Leopard" will be screened 
tonight  at  7  p.m.  in  the  
Browning  Cinema  in  the  
Debartolo  Center for  the  

Performing Arts. The film is in the Italian language with English subtitles. 
The Summer Shakespeare cast, directed by William Brown,present Shakespeare's "The Comedy of Errors" on the Decio Mainstage Theatre in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The show con­tinues its run tonight at 7:30 
p.m. and goes until Sunday. 
Saint Mary's "Senior Career Kickoff Night" will be tonight from 5 p.m. to 6 followed by the "Junior Career Kickofr' from 7 p.m. to 8 in Vander Vennet Theater. 
On Friday night at 8 p.m., The Show 2006 presents artists Third Eye Blind and Common in concert in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. The performance is limited to Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students with valid student IDs. Tickets are $10. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 76 HIGH 
76 
LOW 60 LOW 
58 

LAURIE HUNT/The Observer Freshman Colleen Fleshman enjoys the warm weather by tossing around a frisbee with fellow Walsh Hall residents on South Quad Wednesday. 
OFFBEAT 

Killer raccoons terrorize pet dogs and cats 
OLYMPIA, Washington ­A fierce group of raccoons has killed 10 cats, attacked a small dog and bitten at least one pet owner who had to get rabies shots, res­idents of Olympia say. 
Some have taken to car­rying pepper spray to ward off the masked marauders and the woman who was bitten now carries an iron pipe when she goes outside at night. 
"It's a new breed," said Tamara Keeton, who with Kari Hall started a raccoon watch after an emotional neighborhood meeting drew 40 people. "They're urban raccoons, and they're not afraid." 
Tony Benjamins, whose family lost two cats, said he got a big dog -a German Shepherd-Rottweiler mix­to keep the raccoons away. 
Woman accused of girdle heroin smuggling 
LAREDO, Texas -A pedestrian is accused of trying to smuggle $535,000 worth of heroin into Texas in her girdle. The woman from Santa Catarina, Mexico, whose name was not released, faced an ini­tial court appearance Wednesday on federal 
charges of narcotics impor­tation and possession. 
The woman had about 11 pounds of brown heroin on her when she was stopped Monday at the Gateway to the Americas Bridge, according to a Customs and Border Protection statement. 
Authorities noticed some­thing didn't seem right about the elothing worn by the 51-year-old woman. Officers discovered she was wearing girdles, with a powdery substance sewn inside. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

....1 
<[ 
(.) 



0 

HIGH 82 HIGH 86
...I 
LOW 70 LOW 68 


Thursday, August 24, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Revised readership progran1 arrives on College can1pus 
Four major papers to be offered as Mcllduff, Siefert alter existing setup to meet the need of Saint Mary's student body 
By KELLY MAUS 
News Writer 
A revamped Saint Mary's College Readership Program resumed Wednesday, provid­ing students free copies of the New York Times, USA Today, the Maggie Siefert conceived changes to the program last spring and worked feverishly over the summer to make sure it would be ready this fall. 

"The program was one of 
our biggest platform goals, so we're glad we could accom­
South Bend "So far we've had plish it right Tribune and the a really positive away," Mcllduff 
Chicago Tribune. said.
response frof!t 
This year, how­Perhaps the ever, the program Saint Mary's most noticeable has more funding women. change to the and more features. program is the 
The program, installment of 
Maggie Siefert 
which is complete­new locking ly funded by the student body newspaper Student vice president receptacles that 
Government Association, has increased in cost from $7,500 to $13,000 per year. 
"The student government allotment this year increased by five dollars per student, which aided us in reallocating funds to make this project possible," student body presi­dent Susan Mcllduff said. "Also, we had underestimated the number of incoming fresh­men this fall, which provided us with more student contri­butions to work with." 
Mcllduff and vice president 

require the use 
of a student's ID to gain access to the news­papers. 
"The new distribution machines were given to the school by USA Today due to our membership with them," Mcllduff said. 
Mclld uff said she imple­mented the program as part of student government's response to students' strained access to the newspapers. 
"There had been a problem in the past with faculty taking the papers before some stu­dents had a chance to get to them," Mcllduff said. 
Siefert said she is confident the new receptacles will meet the students' needs. 
"We wanted the student body to be able to have access to eurrent events to help with classes, as well as to become more informed with society," Siefert said. 
Funds were relocated to provide this service, Mcllduff said. "We want the students to know we have their interests in mind." 
"So far today we've had a really positive response from Saint Mary's women," Siefert said. 
Junior Carol Schaberg said she hopes "students take advantage of the program." 
"Having to use our student ID really directs the program to us and will hopefully let students realize that the papers are there for our bene­fit," Schaberg said. 
The newspapers will be available Monday through Friday at the Student Center, Madeleva Hall, Cushwa­Leighton Library and Le Mans Hall. 
Contact Kelly Mans at kmausO 1 @saintmarys.edu page 4 




CHECK OUT OUR NEW COllECTIONS OF DORM COllEGE HAPPENS. BE READY. ROOM FURNITURE AT WALMART.COM/COllEGE. WAL*MART. 



ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, August 24, 2006 CotvtP!LH) FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

U.S.: Iranian proposal falls short 
WASHINGTON -The Bush administration said Wednesday a proposal by Iran for nuclear negotiations falls short of U.N. demands that it cease uranium enrichment, and the U.S. began plotting unspecified "next moves" with other governments. 
At the same time, Iran contended it had offered "positive and clear signals" to resolve the dispute over its nuclear program. 
Efforts by the U.S. and other nations could lead to U.N. sanctions against Iran unless it reverses course and agrees to a verifiable halt to enrichment activities that can be central to making nuclear weapons. France took a firm and quick stand on Iran's proposal. Foreign Minister Philippe Douste­Blazy said the Iranians must suspend uranium enrichment if they want to return to negotia­tions. 
Nigeria: Foreign hostages released 
LAGOS -An American and five other for­eigners kidnapped in Nigeria's southern oil region were released Wednesday, the govern­ment said. 
The six men were set free in the Port Harcourt area, the focus of a series of kidnap­ping in recent weeks, said Rivers state govern­ment spokesman Magnus Abe. 
Among those released was Royce Parfait, a commercial ship captain from Charleston, Tenn., who was abducted 10 days ago in during a raid on a nightclub by suspected militants. 
"I appreciate everything everybody's done for us. We're having champagne," Parfait told The Associated Press in a brief telephone inter­view.between Israel and Hezbollah. Diplomats are still trying to hammer out final details, including the peacekeeping force's precise responsibilities. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Judge dismisses mine safety suit 
CHARLESTON, WVa. -The lone survivor of the Sago Mine disaster and the families of two victims filed lawsuits Wednesday against the mine owner and five other companies. 
All three lawsuits accuse International Coal Group and a subsidiary of negligence in the oper­ation of the mine. The suits allege that unsafe working conditions led to the Jan. 2 explosion. 
Twelve men died in the blast and prolonged entrapment at the coal mine near Buckhannon, while survivor Randal McCloy Jr. was severely injured. 


Beatty guilty in activist gunning 
CINCINNATI -A man who gunned down a community activist just steps from City Hall was found guilty Wednesday of voluntary manslaughter, a lesser charge than prosecutors wanted. 
Judge Norbert Nadel, hearing the case without a jury, said there was not enough evidence to support the more serious charge of aggravated murder against Howard Beatty, 52. 
"The evidence shows that Howard Beatty was provoked by Kabaka Oba into a sudden fit of rage," the judge said. 
Beatty was accused of shooting Oba in the leg, arm and chest shortly after the in the leg, arm and chest shortly after the targets. Oxfam's report points out that although $17 billion has been approved by Congress to rebuild homes in Louisiana and Mississippi, not one house has been rebuilt with that money in either state. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Disabled children's center closes 
NEW ALBANY -Nearly half the students who were forced to transfer out of a southern Indiana development center have moved back home with their families, state officials said. 
State officials in May closed Silvercrest Children's Development Center, which had been open in the community just north of Louisville, Ky., since 1974. It had housed children with autism and other disabilities temporarily until they could be stabilized and return home. 
A state study recommended that the center be closed because it is too expensive and outdated and housed children for too long. 

GAZA STRIP 

Group admits to Gaza kidnapping 
Release of U.S. journalists promised upon liberation of Muslim prisoners 
Associated Press 

GAZA CITY An unknown militant group demanded the release of Muslim prisoners in U.S. jails within 72 hours in exchange for two kid­napped Fox News journal­ists, who were shown sit­ting cross-legged and bare­foot on the floor in a video released Wednesday. 
The video, which broke 10 days of silence from the kidnappers, marked the first time militants in Gaza have issued demands going beyond the conflict with Israel. The footage also had none of the trappings of locally produced videos, such as flags or masked gunmen, raising the possi­bility that foreign extrem­ists may have taken root in Gaza. 
Palestinian and Israeli officials say al-Qaida has been trying to infiltrate Gaza in the aftermath of Israel's withdrawal a year ago. The Egypt-Gaza bor­der is now rife with smug­gling tunnels, and Palestinian militant groups have blown up a border wall to allow people in and out of the area. 
In the footage, American correspondent Steve Centanni, 60, of Washington, D.C., and cameraman Olaf Wiig, 36, Palestinians and Israel, Palestinian territories, and released them unharmed of New Zealand appealed fearing they could other­we are not taking our bat­within hours. The holding for help in getting released. wise cause a backlash tle outside the Palestinian of the Fox journalists is the 
The images of the men against the Palestinian land," he said. longest so far. sitting in a dark, drab cause. Major militant Boaz Ganor, an Israeli A Palestinian security room were the first sign of groups, including the rul­counterterrorism expert, official close to the investi­the journalists since they ing Hamas movement, said the absence of gation said there were sev­were abducted Aug. 14 have all condemned the Palestinian demands in the eral signs that an outside from their TV van in Gaza kidnapping and called for statement made it "much group was behind the kid­City. the journalists' release. more likely that this is part napping. He noted the pro­
"Our captors are treating Militants with ties to of an outside group." fessional quality of the us well," Centanni said. Hamas have been involved Ganor said that since video and the absence of 
In a statement attached in kidnappings in the past, Israel's withdrawal from flags, masked gunmen or to the video, a group call­including the June 25 Gaza, Islamic militants logos typically seen in ing itself the Holy Jihad abduction of an Israeli sol­with direct or indirect links videos made by local Brigades railed against the dier, aimed at winning the to al-Qaida have sneaked groups. 
U.S. wars in Afghanistan release of Palestinians into the territory. "They're But the official said it and Iraq and characterized from Israeli jails. now well-rooted in the was possible that local mil­them as a war against However, Ghazi Hamad, Gaza Strip," he said. itants were trying to divert Islam. It made no demands a spokesman for the gov­Over the past two years, attention. He spoke on con­of Israel. ernment, criticized the kid­Palestinian militants have dition of anonymity 
Local militant groups napping of the Fox journal­seized more than two because he was not routinely try to limit the ists. "Our battL is against dozen foreigners, usually to authorized to discuss the conflict to a fight between the occupation inside the settle personal scores, but matter with the press. 


Border crackdown appears effective 
Associated Press caught crossing the southwest border southwest border annually are 
this summer compared with last sum­Mexicans, he said. 
WASHINGTON -Nearly all non­mer. Of 2,010 non-Mexican immigrants Mexican illegal immigrants caught "Although we're not ready to declare stopped in the first two weeks of sneaking into the United States are victory-we've got a lot more work to August, only 26 have been released ­being held until they can be returned do -it is encouraging and it is some­a 99 percent detention rate, Homeland to their home countries, the Bush thing that ought to inspire us to contin­Security data show. administration said Wednesday. ue to push forward," Chertoffsaid. Moreover, the immigrants are 
Homeland Security Secretary The new policy generally does not detained for an average of 21 days­Michael Chertoff said this marks the apply to Mexicans, who are almost down from 90 days a year ago -before end of the "catch-and-release" practice immediately returned to Mexico after they are taken home, Torres said. that for years helped many illegal being stopped by Border Patrol agents, Immigrant rights advocates have immigrants stay in the United States said John Torres, detention and questioned whether the border crack­unhindered. removal director of Immigration and down actually deters people from 
"There is a real deterrent effect to Customs Enforcement, an arm of sneaking into the U.S., noting that this policy," Chertoff told reporters in Homeland Security. some illegal immigrants may just be Washington, pointing to a 20,000 drop Most of the more than 1 million ille­shifting entry points to cross at more in the number of illegal immigrants gal immigrants who sneak over the remote and dangerous areas. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, August 24, 2006 
Shappell 
continued from page 1 

drop popcorn, a cup of noo­dles, pudding and peanuts in their brown paper bags. 
Another Shappell-Andrichik campaign promise launches today. The College Readership Program -made possible by a Student Activities Fee increase -will deliver 1,600 copies of the Chicago Tribune, the New York Times and USA Today to campus. 
The papers, available only to students, can be picked up in both dining halls, LaFortune Student Center and various other campus locations. 
"I really think this will improve the level of discussion both inside and outside the classroom amongst students," Shappell said. 
She encourages those who pick up a newspaper to pass it to friends and classmates or return it to the bin for others to use. 
Shappell plans to continue the work of last year's admin­istration, led by former student body president Dave Baron, to improve community relations between Notre Dame and South Bend. 
Student government kicked off the school year with two events designed to inform stu­dents about the city: the first­ever "Explore South Bend Tour" and the second annual off-campus student informa­tion fair Monday. 
Shappell and Andrichik hope to work with South Bend Mayor Steven Luecke and his office to promote events in South Bend and improve the general student perception of the city. 
"I think it really is about changing the culture of how we look at the South Bend community," Shappell said. 
plans discussed during his three years at Notre Dame that have never come into fruition. The duo wants to cultivate stu­dent-alumni connections long before they become vital dur­ing job searches. 
"We want to be able to not start student-alumni contact when one side needs the other as opposed to starting it a lot earlier on so it is a much stronger relationship," Andrichik said. 
To build these connections, Andrichik proposes student­alumni receptions before home football games this fall. He is also working with the Alumni Association and the Career Center to give students full access to Irish Online, an alumni networking website. 
This year, Shappell will sit as an ex officio member of the Alumni Board. She said it is essential that a student repre­sentative be present on the board to increase contact between alumni and current students. 
Shappell and Andrichik plan to bring speakers onto campus to address academic issues. The student government will sponsor the Catholic Think Tank of America lecture series, now in its second year. Shappell is also organizing a conference to discuss eating disorders, which will take place in February or March. 
Calling the plan "ambitious," she said it is important that, as a top-20 Catholic university, Notre Dame searches for a way to prevent this disease. 
"We want to ask more press­ing questions, looking at what creates an environment con­ducive to eating disorders," Shappell said. 
Other bullets on the agenda include improving seating availability for students at foot­ball game pep rallies and using classified ads on insideND for book and ticket exchanges. 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
end of Fall Break. 
"We think we have found a way to preserve this benefit to students," Berlo said. "It's important to us that if you can't attend you can utilize that ticket for someone who is close to you." 
In other Senate news: 
+ College Readership Program organizer Chris Harris reminded senators that CRP will launch today. He said about 400 papers will be avail­able at each of four spots on campus (South Dining Hall, North Dining Ilall, LaFortune and near the Joyce Center parking lot). 
Student government leaders will be wearing and handing out "Stay Connected" t-shirts to help advertise the new pro­gram, which is funded by a $15 Student Activities Fee increase. 
+ Student body president Lizzi Shappell, student body vice president Bill Andrichik and chief executive assistant Liz Brown updated senators on progress they made during the summer months. 
Shappell said she has been working on an eating disor­ders conference slated for sec­ond semester. Shappell's focus this fall will be working with the South Bend Common Council to make changes to the recently-revised South Bend disorderly house ordinance. 

Andrichik told members about his work on adding new items to Grab and Go and get­ting students access to Goirish, an alumni networking Web site. 
Brown sat on a committee that selected new channels for the cable network in dorm rooms. Her committee made recommendations, but those have not been finalized. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

We Will Cook and Serve our Popular Stirfry Right in Front ofYou! We Provide the Largest Selection of Buffet Items in the Area 
Cm:uuut Shrin'l'• Peanut Bnn•"•r Chi•·"k•"•u, I'•'I'Jlt"' Chh·ken, Huby Bad< Rit..., s.,afood Bi.,rue, E1~and Clam (:howder 



10% OFF 
For Notre Dame/SMC Students With Student or Faculty ID 
313 W. McKinley Ave. Carryout is Availahle. Delivery Availahle through Dine In Guide 255-6888 Mishawaka, IN 46515 Children Und<·r 3 FHEE
1 
(574) 255-6888 _ -~-... _ -.~'""""' ,,.. _ _ _ _ Childrenllnder 9 Yrs. Old HALF PlUCE 

J ~NDtffi~IJU; Fri-Snt ll:OOam-IO:::IOpm -Sun-Thm·s ll:OOam-9:.30pm 
A significant component of "To put it simply, I'd like to improving community relations see everything done on our would be a change to the platform," Shappell said. ammendment passed by the Along with Andrichik, South Bend Common Council Shappell expressed optimism last summer, Shappell said. that this is an achievable goal. She said she will work "tire­They hope to continue what lessly" to change the ordi­Shappell calls a "professional" nance, which allows landlords relationship with University to evict residents after a first President Father John Jenkins noise violation. and his administration. 
Andrichik wants to expand Shappell and Andrichik said on this community relations positive past experiences with initiative by reaching out to Jenkins bode well for contin­nearby Mishawaka. The city ued collaboration this year. wants Notre Dame students to "It seems like an administra­know it for more than just the tion that is very open to con­chain restaurants and stores tact and discussion with stu­


on Grape Road, Andrichik said. dents," Andrichik said. The administration's goals 
CORE COUNCIL 

also include what Andrichik Contact Kaidynn Riely at calls "common sense issues"-kriely@nd.edu 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 


STUDENTS 

DAYS/NIGHTS 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students

DELIVERY DRIVERS 

(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Andy Magee, amagee@nd.edu

SANDWICH MAKERS 

Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800; or Fr. Dick Warner, CSC, at 1-9704 
University Counseling Center
54570 N. IRONWOOD DR. 

(Individual counseling) 
Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu
574.277.8500 
Visit our web site at: 

http://www.corecouncil.nd.edu/
JIMMYJOHNS.COM 


THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Thursday, August 24, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

11,297.90 -41.94

}ones 
Up: Some: Down: Composite Volume: I,021 159 2.221 1,972,667,480.00 

NYSf.··· 
S&PSOO 1,292.99 -5.83 
NII<J'IIlr~J!l;';;;j;:)I~Jll!·l~i~~~~i!il!ll!l!lill!i:ljiJillil 
FTSE. IOO(London) 5,860.00 -42.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  -0.75  -0.29  38.14  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +0.22 +0.04  18.38  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW}  +3.67+0.17  4.80  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.20 +0.05  25.67  
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU)  0.00  0.00  2.5 I  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.04 +0.002  4.813  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.30 -0.0 15  4.950  
30-YEAR BOND  0.00  0.00  4.950  
5-YEARNOTE  +0.23 +0.011  4.774  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.34  71.76  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -1.00  633.00  
PORK BEWES (cents/lb.)  -2.25  88.45  
YEN  116.4900  
EURO  0.7832  
POUND  0.5288  
CANADIAN$  1.1130  




IN BRIEF 
Concerns plague livestock ID project 
KANSAS CITY, Mo -U.S. Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns assured livestock owners Wednesday that information collect­ed in a planned animal identification pro­gram will be kept confidential and used only in the event of a disease outbreak. 
Speaking before a conference on animal identification technology and policy, Johanns sought to downplay concerns that farm information collected through the pro­gram could fall into the hands of competi­tors, animal rights activists or other mem­bers of the public. 
He said private vendors would collect and maintain the data, making it off-limits to federal open-records laws, a concern that has led officials in some states, such as Vermont, to put their own data-collection efforts on hold. 
"It is not data that is controlled and owned by the USDA, so we can protect confidential­ity," Johanns said in response to a question from the audience. 
Johanns' assurances held little water with some of the 30 protesters picketing outside the meeting. They said the program violated their property rights, would cost too much and is aimed at helping large-scale produc­ers who want to sell their livestock over­seas. 

Stocks fall on weak housing numbers 
NEW YORK -Wall Street fell for a third straight session Wednesday as fresh signs of a housing slump triggered concerns that the economy is slowing too fast and could erode corporate profits. 
Investors believed that housing sales might be dropping more rapidly than antici­pated, and theorized that a soft landing for the U.S. economy might be more difficult to achieve. The report from the National Association of Realtors that sales of previ­ously owned homes dropped in July to a pace of 6.33 million units, the lowest since January 2004. 
The data comes after a Federal Reserve official hinted Tuesday that higher interest rates may still be needed to tame inflation, a move that could curtail consumer spending. 

Businesses relocate post-Katrina 
New Orleans entrepreneurs set up elsewhere; many have no plans to return home 
Associated Press 
Christine McAtee hopes to go back to New Orleans some day, but for the fore­seeable future, The Woodlands, Texas, is where she'll live and run her marketing firm. McAtee, owner of Adventures in Advertis in gil n sign i a Marketing, is one of thou­sands of small business owners forced to leave the city ravaged by Hurricane Katrina and start over someplace else. 
The storm left water in McAtee's home and her office, but the dampness that pervaded everything was just as destructive, damaging files and leaving computers inoperable. And with the city paralyzed, it was clear it would be hard for McAtee to rebuild her company and take care of her two children. 
There were awful moments as she salvaged what she could: "You think, this can't b('l hap­pening, when you slip and fall in the grime and you're covered with who knows what and there's no run­ning water to wash it off with." 
And outside her office, it was catastrophic. 

"There weren't a lot of opened an office ·and con­became paramount. He had a Sept. 30 dead­people around. I looked tinued working; while she Like McAtee, line for getting a new around and thought I was had New Orleans clients Mangiaracina, owner of A­training facility set up 
· deathly scared to lose the who were displaced, her Pro Home Inspection somewhere else, as he had business I'd built all those company also has many Services, knew he had to a class scheduled then. So years," she said. clients in other cities. She act quickly to save the he chose San Antonio: "I McAtee decided to look believes the move saved business. The problem he was looking for a place rel­for temporary office space the business, because it faced was the destruction atively free of natural dis­in another city, with the allowed her to get back to of the city's infrastructure asters, a large city that had expectation that she'd work faster. -his business includes easy access to around the move back to New Orleans, "We're back on track, running training programs country. I needed a place where she was born and where we should have for franchisees from that had good tourism." grew up. But so many been at this time," McAtee around the country and The training facility was other business owners said. "l can see the growth without a functioning ai­intact, although were competing for space, starting to come back." port and tourism industry, Mangiaracina's original and she thought about But she's also hoping he couldn't get people to leak detection business, having to uproot her busi­someday to go back to New come to New Orleans. the one that spawned the ness again at some point. Orleans: "We'll see what Mangiaracina said he franchise system, was So she decided, "instead of happens." knew he could survive -"l destroyed. With help, he going for temporary office For Greg Mangiaracina, could go back to New loaded trucks with 7,000 space, l looked for some.­the move from New Orleans and be in an engi­square feet of furniture thing I wouldn't have to Orleans to San Antonio is neering firm"-but he felt including stadium-style close down in a few permanent. After seeing a responsibility to the 120 seating, and transported months." how the storm had unset­franchisees in his system, the facility's contents to McAtee ended up in The tled his family, the safety of so he knew he needed to Texas, set it up and made Woodlands, near Houston, his wife and children move. his deadline. 


Ford announces production cuts 
Associated Press 
Hundreds of workers at Indiana's auto parts plants could face layoffs as a ripple effect of production cuts by Ford Motor Co. 
More than 800 workers at Muncie's BorgWarner Automotive plant may be put on a weeklong furlough begin­ning Sunday, and layoffs in the Chicago area could affect workers living in northwestern Indiana. 
Ford last week announced deep production cuts designed to bring its supply of vehicles in line with wither­ing demand for its biggest sellers ­pickups and SUVs. Ford said it will temporary shut down 10 assembly plants across North America through the end of this year to cut its fourth­quarter production by 21 percent. 

Indiana is home to many automo­tive suppliers, some of which do busi­ness with Ford. 
"I know from conversatirms with suppliers that some are going to take 15 to 20 percent revenue hits" as a result of Ford's cuts, said Kevin Reale, research director for AMR Research, an industry consulting company. 
The biggest hit in Indiana looked to be at BorgWarner, which makes transmission transfer cases for Ford 4-wheel-drive F-150 pickup trucks and Explorer and Navigator sport utility vehicles. 
Some 840 hourly workers were 
told last week the plant would shut down for one week, but Doug Owenby, vice president of operations, said Tuesday the layoff notice might have been premature. 
"At this point, we are re-evaluating it based on new information from customer releases and demand," Owenby said. 
Owenby acknowledged that the Ford cuts would be a "significant blow" to the Muncie plant. 
Though Indiana has no Ford assembly plants, many northwestern Indiana residents work at a Chicago assembly plant targeted for tempo­rary shutdown and a stamping plant in Chicago Heights, Ill., that produces body panels for that plant. 

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, August 24, 2006 
Rankings 
continued from page 1 
and third. Regional schools Indiana University, Purdue University and the University. of Michigan ranked No. 70, No. 64 and No. 24, respectively. 
Other Catholic colleges included Ge·orgetown University at No. 23 and Boston College at No. 34. 
U.S. News & World Report also ranked comprehensive colleges nationwide and placed Saint Mary's first in the Midwest out of 106 schools. The honor is nothing new, however -the College has. led the list 12 of the past 13 years. 
Saint Mary's spokesperson Melanie McDonald said the honor is not something the College specifically strives for in developing programs, but is a "happy consequence" of the school's educational merit. 
"It's about consistently being excellent in educating women," she said. "Any time you receive positive recognition for the work you're doing, .you have to 

Cable 
continued from page 1 · 
With the new cable installa­tion, students are no longer allowed to use satellite dishes on campus. 
"I don't think [the exclusion of satellite dishes] is much of an issue, especially with the [University] offering cable and the addition­al cable 
pack­
"/ don ,t really see the

ages," sopho­more Andrew need to move off 
Parnell said. campus {since wireless 
While some 
Internet and cable are

students have had difficulty provided]. ,, setting up their televisions, 
J.essica Jiminez 

Director of 
junior

Integrated Com­
munication Services Steve Ellis said this is not usually due to poor instal­lation. 
"There have been only a small number of reports [from students] about the cable not working properly, but many smile and say thank you." 
Saint Mary's all-female make-up is "another thing that puts [the College] at the top," McDonald said, referring to a July Indiana University study which found women's colleges are "better served in their edu­cational pursuits than their peers at coeducational institu­tions." 
In addition to the U.S. News & World Report rankings, the University was also selected by the editors of the 2007 Kaplan/Newsweek "How to Get into College Guide" in its selec­tion of 25 "new Ivies." 
The guide noted the number of alumni and students who cite the University's "unique Catholic character," as well as the more than 50 percent of entering freshme'n who said Notre Dame was their first choice. 
Additionally, the report praised the University's 95 per­cent graduation rate -rivaled only by Harvard and Princeton, with equivalent records -and 80 percent of students who participate in community serv­ice. 
times it is not the cable, but the TV," Ellis said. "Most of the calls that we have received have been about how to set up the TV." 
Many students are excited about the change. 
"I think it's great [having cable in the dorm]," sopho­more Ben Johnson said. "It's not really a distraction because if I didn't have cable, I would probably be on the computer 
anyway." 
Johnson also said knowing he would have cable when he returned to campus infl u­enced his deci­sion to pur­chase a larger 
TV. 
Some stu­dents said that the addition of 
wireless  In­ 
ternet  and  
cable  in  the  

residence halls may influence their decision to stay on cam­pus. 
"I don't really see the need to move off campus [since wire­less Internet and cable are 
The rankings included uni­versities whose top-rate scholastic programs, in tandem with a "population boom" in the nation's leading scholars, have spurred a "rise in stature and favor among the nation's top students, administrators and faculty -edging them to a competitive status rivaling the Ivy League." 
"The reason we have attained the.level we have. is because of our unique strengths," Wy­cliff said. "We 

will continue to " ... Maybe someday guide targeted build on those Americans con­
schools will be
unique strengths cerned about
named the 'new 
... Iandi maybe how effectively someday schools Notre Dames.,, colleges utilize will be named tax money and the 'new Notre how institutions
Don Wycliff 
Dames."' of higher learn­
associate vice president
Other new ing prepare stu­Ivies" included News and Information dents to keep 
Boston College, Colgate Univer­sity, New York University, Tufts University and the University of Michigan. A school's place­ment on the list relied on admissions statistics and inter­views with administrators, stu­
provided]," junior Jessica Jimenez said. 
Students who use the stan­dard cable-channel line up are not required to pay any addi­tional costs. Comcast also pro­vides expanded cable pack­ages. The packages feature additional channels that are not included in the standard package and range in price from five to 40 dollars per month. 
Shoup said the cost of the cable is included in students' room and board fees. However, he declined to say exactly how much money students pay for the cable services. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 
There's that question in the back of your mind... Is there some­thing more to my FAITH? Something more that I should look into? Maybe there's more to all of this Church stuff. RCIA ... 
For more info, contact: Tami Schmitz 
~.Y 
631-3016 Schmitz.8(q)nd.edu 308 Coleman-Morse Center 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

dents, faculty and alumni. Other publications had simi­lar opinions of Notre Dame as 
U.S. News & World Report. 
Washington Monthly maga­zine, an alternative political publication, ranked Notre Dame No.13 among colleges nationwide in its September issue. 
Editors said the rankings assessed the "patriotism" of various institutions and explored "what colleges are 
doing for the country." The 
the nation "com­
·petitive in a changing world," the magazine said. 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology topped the list. The University ·of California­Berkeley, Penn State University, UCLA and Texas A&M rounded out the top five. 
Wycliff said though rankings are useful to the University, "one has to consider what the people who are doing the list­ing have in mind, what criteria they use and what biases they may bring to the issue." 
"Obviously every [list] serves some purpose to somebody," he said. "[The biases] can be as benign as the highest priori­ty on academic graduate research, or in the case of the Washington Monthly rankings, how well the institution serves American democracy." 
McDonald said the U.S. News & World Report rankings, among other lists, are some­times "controversial in terms of value" since there is no definitive way to evaluate schools. 
"A lot of students and par­ents look at rankings and firid value in them," she said. "They use [the lists] as a tool -and to be ranked at the top is an honor." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 

Are you thinking about becoming Catholic? 
Find out more about: The Sacraments of Initiation: 
• Baptism, Eucharist & Confirmation: 
for unbaptized persons wanting to become a member of the Catholic Church. 
• Full Communion: 
for baptized persons wanting Full Communion in the Catholic tradition. 
We all learn from one another. The RCIA gives you a chance to walk with someone as you explore your faith and find your place in the Church. Join us on this adventure of faith. 


Thursday, August 24, 2006 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
SOMALIA 

Islan1ic n1ilitia reopens seaport 
Associated Press 
MOGADISHU -The seaport in the Somali capital reopened Wednesday for the first time in 11 years, the latest sign that the city's Islamic fundamentalist rulers are trying to restore confi­dence after more than a decade of anarchy. 
Mogadishu International Seaport still must undergo dra­matic renovations after so many years of disuse but it is ready to receive commercial traffic, said Sheik Abdulkadir Ali Omar, a member of the Islamic militia that has taken control of the cap­ital and much of southern Somalia in recent months. 
"From today on, the port is open and the world can send its goods here," Omar said, adding that a formal opening ceremony will be held Thursday. 
The seaport has not been oper­ational since 1995, when United Nations forces left Somalia by sea and air amid political and clan-based violence. The coun­try's last effective central govern­ment was toppled in 1991 by rival warlords who then turned on each other. 
The port and area its sur­rounds were controlled by rival warlords whose militias prevent­ed its use. Businessmen and aid agencies used a smaller port out­side the capital, with the risk that imported goods and those for export might simply disap­pear. 
"We are notifying the Somali people, especially businessmen, to use the seaport to ship their goods around the world," said Omar Wehliye, the newly named manager of the port. 
Mogadishu's international air­port, closed more than 10 years, reopened a month ago. Flights have been coming in and leaving the airport daily, but it was not immediately clear how much traffic the seaport would get. Somalia still has no coast guard or navy, and pirate attacks are frequent off the country's lawless coast. 


School drops SAT requirements 
Associated Press 
McLEAN, Va.-George Mason University is becoming one of the nation's first four-year pub­lic universities to drop the SAT and other standardized tests from its admissions require­ments for certain students. 
High school seniors with at least a 3.5 grade-point average and who are in the top 20 per­cent of their class won't have to submit an SAT or ACT score with their application beginning this year, said dean of admis­sions Andrew Flagel. 
The school, after a three-year review, concluded that SAT scores are a poor indicator of collegiate success for high­achieving high school students. 
Applicants who don't have a 

3.5 GPA will still be required to submit a test score. Students who want to play intercollegiate sports also must submit test scores because the NCAA uses them to help determine eligibili­ty. 
Dozens of private schools have stopped requiring applicants to take the SAT or ACT amid con­cerns the tests are not accurate gauges of an applicant's poten­tial for success. 
Among public schools, howev­er, George Mason's stance is somewhat unique. 
A number of public universi­ties, including the University of Texas, guarantee admission to students who achieve a certain grade-point average or class rank in high school, negating the need to submit an SAT or ACT. 
At George Mason, applicants who do not submit an SAT or ACT score will still be evaluated by the admissions committee and must submit two additional letters of recommendation. 
The SAT has come under fire in recent years from critics who feel it is overemphasized and is biased against minorities. However, George Mason, with one of the most diverse student bodies in the nation, found that the SAT was a weak predictor for all races when applied to students with high GPAs. Flagel said racial and minority issues had nothing to do with the school's decision. 
Caren Scoropanos, a spokes­woman for the College Board, which administers the SAT test, said that both grade-point aver­ages and SAT scores can be good predictors of collegiate success, but that evaluating both is the best way to gauge an applicant's prospects. 


Bio con1pany creates alternative sten1 cells 
Opponents still not satisfied with method 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -In an innova­tive move, a biotech company has found a new way of mak­ing stem cells without destroy­ing embryos, touting it as a way to defuse one of the coun­try's fiercest political and ethi­cal debates. 
Some opponents of the research said the method still doesn't satisfy their objections and many stem cell scientists and their supporters called it inefficient and politically wrong-headed. 
But a spokeswoman for President Bush, who vetoed legislation last month that would have allowed federal funding for embryonic stem cell research, called it a step in the right direction. 
And Dr. Robert Lanza, an executive with Advanced Cell Technology, which created the new stem cell lines, said: "This will make it far more difficult to oppose this research." 
Stem cells haye become a Holy Grail for advocates of patients with a wide variety of illnesses because of the cells' potential to transform into any type of human tissue, perhaps leading to new treatments. But the Vatican, President Bush and others have argued that the promise of stem cells should not be realized at the expense of human life, even in its most nascent stages. 
The new method works by taking an embryo at a very early stage of development and removing a single cell, which can be coaxed into spawning an embryonic stem cell line. With only one cell removed, the rest of the embryo retains its full potential for develop­ment. 
The method was described online Wednesday in the British journal Nature. The journal published a similar paper by Advanced Cell Technology last year demon­strating the technique's viabili­ty in mice. 
"The science is interesting and important," said John Harris, a professor of bioethics at the University of Manchester in Great Britain, commenting on the biotech company's efforts. 
But few believe it will resolve the bitter ethical battle over stem cell research. 
"This will please no one," predicted a longtime critic of the company, Glenn McGee, director of the Alden March Bioethics Institute in Albany, N.Y. 
Some stem cell researchers complain that the new approach, though it may hold future promise, simply isn't as efficient as their current method of creating stem cells. That procedure involves the destruction of embryos after about five days of develop­ment, when they consist of about 100 cells. 
Meanwhile, hard-line oppo­nents of stem cell science argue that the technique solves nothing, because even the sin­gle cell removed by the new approach could theoretically grow into a full-fledged human. Some also object over the possibility the procedure could harm the embryo in an unknown way. 
The method "raises more ethical questions than it 
answers,"  said  Richard  
Doerflinger  of  the  U.S.  
Conference  of  Catholic  
Bishops.  

U.S. law currently bans fed­eral funding of any research that harms human embryos. A White House spokeswoman said the method's eligibility for funding could not yet be deter­mined, "but it is encouraging to see scientists at least mak­ing serious efforts to move away from research that involves the destruction of embryos." 
President Bush has said that he personally opposes any research that sacrifices embry­onic life, even to save an exist­ing person. In August 2001 the president limited federal fund­ing to research on a few dozen stem cell lines that had been created up to that point. 
IS LATIN REALLY DEAD? Why the Academy and the Church Should Preserve the Latin Language 

an informal conversation with 
Reginald Foster, O.C.D. Department of Latin Letters Secretariat of State, The Vatican 

Thursday, August 24, 2006 4:30p.m. Room 120 Law School 
Sponsored by The Department of Classics The Medieval Institute The Department of Theology The Law School 
For more information, contact Professor Cathleen Kaveny at Kaveny.l(il)nd.edu 


page 10 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, August 24, 2006 
SUDAN 
LEBANON 

U.N. tnandate divides Mideast
Darfur refugee ca111p 
Israel, Syria dispute mobilization of international border force



rape count increases 
Associated Press 
KHARTOUM -More than 200 women have been raped in a refugee camp in Darfur in the past five weeks, a sign of the worsening humanitarian crisis in the violence-wracked Sudanese region, an aid group said Wednesday. 
The increased violence came as the U.N. Security Council discussed a draft resolution to replace an understaffed African Union peacekeeping force with a larger, more effec­tive U.N. mission in Darfur, where more than 200,000 peo­ple have been killed since 2003. 
The number of rapes in Kalma camp -one of Darfur's largest with about 100,000 refugees have been targeted in intereth­nic conflicts as a deliberate form of humiliation of a group, and as a means of ethnic cleansing." 
Violence flared three years ago in Darfur when ethnic African tribes revolted against the Arab-led Sudanese govern­ment. Khartoum is accused of having unleashed in response a paramilitary group known as the janjaweed that have been blamed for much of the atroci­ties. 
Measuring the violence in the vast, arid Darfur region has long been notoriously dillicult, with pro-government armed groups and rebel factions often barring access to international observers, and Khartoum pro­
viding scarce 
information. 

-was one meas­"Grave violence International 
much of which is believed to 

ure of the pressure has been 
originate in Iran, reaches the
against women in

increased violence mounting on 
guerrillas across the Syrian
Darfur continues 

throughout the Khartoum to let a 
border. 

region. Another to worsen." large U.N. mission 
European Union ambassa­

measure was a into the country to 
dors and deputies met in 

rising number of resolve the crisis. 
Brussels, Belgium, to drum up
Kofi Annan

people fleeing On Wednesday, 
volunteers for the force, but
secretary-general

their homes and of four U.S. con­
tentative pledges readwd just 

attacks on aid United Nations gressmen ended a 
4.200 troops by Wednesday ­

workers, said International Rescue Committee, which col­lected the information. 
"This is a massive spike in figures. We are used to hearing of two to four incidents of sex­ual assault per month in Kalma camp," said Kurt Tjossem of the rescue commit­tee. 
The group did not specify who committed the rapes. Refugees in the past have accused pro-government jan­jaweed militia of harassing them. 
The aid group's statement echoed a report issued by U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan a day earlier that said there were thousands of documented cases of women and children abducted for forced labor or forced sex. 
"Grave violence against women in Darfur continues to worsen," Annan said. "Girls Walid Moallem, in Helsinki. Finland holds the rotating presidency of the European Union. 
Lebanon has land borders only with Syria and Israel. 
Syria's throat to dose its bor­der and Israel's resolve to con­tinuo tho blockade were among the burgeoning hurdles facing Lebanon as it struggled to meet key requirements of the U.N. resolution: deployment of 15,000 L<1banese soldiers south for the first time in four decades and stiffening control on all borders. 
Saniora said his government was making "every effort" to secure the bordnrs, but Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni questionnd the pace. 
"Time is working against those who would like to see this resolution applied," Livni told rnporters after talks in Paris with French Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy. "We are now in the most sensi­tivn and explosive position." 
Several incidents erupted along the lsrael-Lnbanon bor­der Wednesday, with the killing of three Lebaneso and one Israoli soldier by exploding ordnance, tlH1 capture of two Lnbanese men in an army raid, and the resumption of sporadic shelling by lsranli forces in the disputed Chebaa Farms. 
Olmnrt told Secretary of State Condoloezza Hiee by phone that the international force must arrive as soon as possi­ble, so the sea and air blockade could be called off, his office said. 
Syria -a llezbollah benefac­tor largely left out of diplomacy during the 34-day war _ appeared to insert itself Wednesday. 
Syrian President Bashar Assad called any deployment of multinational troops along his border a "hostile" affront to Syria. 
"First, this means creating hostile conditions between Syria and Lebanon," Assad told Dubai Television in an inter­view aired Wednesday. "Second, it is a hostile move toward Syria and naturally it will create problems." 
The Aug. 11 U.N. resolution that halted fighting three days later called for the internation­al reinforcements to arrive in Lebanon, but some have com­plained the mandate was fuzzy. 
The additional peacekeepers were to augment the 2,000­strong U.N. Interim Force in Lebanon, known as UNIFIL, deploy south of the Litani River, 18 miles from the Israeli bor­der, and open fire only in defense of themselves and civil­ians. 
"The Israelis cannot ask UNIFIL to disarm Ilezbollah. This is not written in our man­date," French Maj. Gen. Alain Pellegrini, the UNIFIL com­mander, told reporters at force headquarters in Naqoura, Lebanon.. 
Pellegrini said the cease-fire "is tense, very fragile, very volatile ... Any provocation or misunderstanding could esca­late very, very rapidly." 
Many countries appeared wary of joining without safe­guards to ensure they don't get sucked into a new Mideast con­flict. 
Associated Press 
BEIHUT Syria on Wednesday opposed deploy­ment of an international force along its border to prevent arms shipments to Ilezbollah, and Israel called the situation in Lebanon "explosive." A cease-fire was further shaken by artillery shells and explo­sions that killed three Lebanese soldiers and an Israeli. 
Lebanese Prime Minister Fuad Saniora asked the U.S. to help lift an Israeli blockade on his country's coast and airport -something Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said would not happen until U.N. troops deployed along the Lebanon-Syria border to block the flow or weapons. Ilezbollah's vast arsenal of rockets and other weapons, 
trip to Sudan, the 
U.S. Embassy in Khartoum said. The delegation was led by Rep. Christopher Shays, H-Conn., chairman of the Subcommittee on National Security, the embassy said. 
The International Hescue Committee statement said more than 50,000 people have been made refugees in recent weeks, joining some two mil­lion people previously dis­placed by the conflict. 
Last month alone, nine 
far short or the 15,000 eallnd for by the U.N. ceasn-lire reso­lution. Deployment was likely take weeks or months. 
Meanwhile, Syria indieatnd it might impose a blockade of its own. 
"They will close their borders for all trallic in the event that 
U.N. troops are deployf~d along the Lebanon-Syria border," Finland's foreign minister Erkki Tuomioja said after meeting his Syrian counterpart, 
humanitarian aid workers were killed and 20 vehicles were hijacked in Darfur, the New York-based IRC also said. 
The U.N. and several aid 

Have you thought about teaching Religion
organizations have also warned that a peace agree­

and becoming a Catechist? 
ment signed in May between the Sudanese government and the main Darfur rebel group only led to more violence and a worsening or the humanitarian crisis. 

C-M 


a Religion Teacher. 
Important Information Meeting: Wednesday, August 30, 2006 5:00-6:00p.m. Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center Call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163 
Thursday, August 24, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Karr's family seeks top lawyer 
Relatives of JonBenet Ramsey's alleged killer insist he is innocent 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -John Mark Karr's relatives offered up the book and film rights to the fam­ily's story Wednesday in hopes of raising money for a high­powered attorney to defend Karr against charges that he killed 6-year-old JonBenet Ramsey. 
"They're not looking for money for themselves," said Larry Garrison, a producer the family hired to represent them in media deals. "They're look­ing to support John's boys' col­lege education and to make sure all legal fees are covered." 
Karr remained in a Los Angeles jail Wednesday after­noon awaiting transfer to Colorado, where JonBenet was killed in her Boulder home in December 1996. 
Garrison told The Associated Press that no money had changed hands yet with the Karrs, and he didn't want to go into details about the agree­ment. Karr's brother, Nate Karr, confirmed that Garrison is now representing the family. 
Karr told reporters in Thailand last week that he was present when JonBenet died and that her death was an acci­dent. He did not specifically say he killed her, and Boulder pros­ecutors have not disclosed their evidence against him. 
His family has insisted Karr was in Georgia during the Christmas week that JonBenet was killed. 
Georgia attorney Gary Harris, who had represented Karr's father and brother in recent days, has said the family found a photo from Christmas 1996 showing Karr's three sons at a dinner in Atlanta. Karr is not in the photo, but the family insists that if the boys were there, Karr would have been too. 
"John Karr wasn't working," Harris said. "He couldn't afford to buy a MARTA (Atlanta public transportation) or bus ticket, much less plane fare to Colorado." 
A family photo has been turned over to Boulder authori­ties, but Garrison could not say what it shows. 
"I can tell you they proclaim his innocence," Garrison said. 'They feel he was not there at the time, that some of the state­ments made by the press are absurd." 
Harris told the AP on Wednesday that as far as the family knows, the only time Karr was ever in Colorado was in 2001 when his car broke down on a trip from Alabama to California with his then-wife and children. He said the fami­ly got the car ftxed and moved on. 
Harris said he thinks Karr claimed involvement in JonBenet's death because he is ill. 
"Obviously, this guy has some mental problems," he said. "He obviously has some emotional problems. He's always had some." 
Harris declined to be more specific but said he has no knowledge of Karr ever seeing a psychiatrist. He also noted that the family lost touch with Karr five years ago. 
"We don't know what hap­pened in the last five years because they hadn't talked to him," Harris said. "They thought he was dead." 
A psychiatrist has met with Karr twice since he was brought to Los Angeles County's Twin Towers jail Sunday night after a flight from Thailand, said sheriff's Lt. George Vanecek. At the jail, deputies were looking in on Karr every 15 minutes. 
Harris told the AP on Wednesday that, because of a difference of opinion, he no longer is representing Karr's father Wexford and brother Nate. He said he now repre­sents only Michael Karr, anoth­er brother of John Karr, and his wife. 
Harris would not disclose the reason for the split, but sug­gested it had something to do with Wexford and Nate Karr's desire to sell the family story. 
"My clients are not seeking any book deals or anything of that nature," Harris said of Michael Karr and his wife. ''I'll let you deduce what you want from that. My clients are not looking to make any money ofl' of this." 
Karr agreed Tuesday not to fight extradition to Colorado. In a two-minute court appear­ance, his expression changed only once when he slowly closed his eyes as the judge recited the count of lirst-degree murder that Boulder prosecu­tors included in an arrest war­rant. 
Karr "has been portrayed by the media as of late as being mentally unstable, attention­seeking, unwell, mentally unwell. And he is none of those things," said attorney Jamie Harmon, who spoke with Karr in jail and attended Tuesday's hearing. 
He "is anxious to have an opportunity to address the alle­gations against him, to be por­trayed in a more accurate and complete way," Harmon said. 

Monday, October 28 -7:00-S:OOpm Sunday, September 3 -2:30-3:30pm 

Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Contact: Fr. John Conley 631-7888 or John & Sylvia Dillon 631-7163 
C-M 

Dissent plagues the Christian Coalition 
Alabama, Iowa and Ohio chapters leave national organization 
Associated Press 
Three disgruntled state affili­ates have severed ties with the Christian Coalition of America, one of the nation's most power­ful conservative groups during the 1990s but now buffeted by complaints over finances, lead­ership and its plans to veer into nontraditional policy areas. 
"It's a very sad day for our people, but a liberating day," said John Giles, president of the coalition's Alabama chapter, which announced Wednesday that it was renaming itself and splitting from the national organization. The Iowa and Ohio chapters took similar steps this year. 
Giles said he and his Alabama colleagues have 
directions. 
"We're going to have a new mission, a new vision -much more broad-focused," she said. "They don't like some of the comments I've made about the environment and some of these other issues." 
The coalition, which claims more than 2 million members, was founded in 1989 by reli­gious broadcaster Pat Robertson and became politically powerful under Executive Director Ralph Reed before he left in 1997. Robertson, who turned over the presidency to Combs in 2002, has been criticized for provoca­tive public statements, while Reed lost an election in Georgia last month after being linked to disgraced lobbyist Jack Abramoff. 
Jim Backlin, the coalition's vice president for legislative affairs, said the Reed situation harmed the organization because of heavy media cover­
age that constant­

"a dozen hard ly mentioned his
"It's a very sad day

reasons" for the past role with the action but would for our people, but a coalition. elaborate on only liberating day." Backlin insisted, one -a percep­however, that the tion that the coali­coalition remained 
John Giles

tion's leadership influential among

president

was diverting conservatives in itself from tradi­Alabama chapter Congress. tional concerns Christian Coalition of "Many of the such as abortion congressional

America

and same-sex marriage to address other issues ranging from the environment to Internet access. 
Giles predicted further defec­tions and said the coalition was now left with only a half-dozen strong state chapters and a weak presence in Washington. 
"In our prime, we were rated the seventh-most powerful lob­bying organization in the coun­try," he said. "Now, there's not even any blip on the radar screen." 
At its peak, the coalition had a presence in every state, but in some cases a modest one. 
The coalition's president, Roberta Combs, insisted her organization -which is $1 mil­lion in debt -would survive the defections, and was unapolo­getic about her interest in new offices always look 
for Christian Coalition support right away when trying to get their bosses' legislation passed," he said. 
On the political left, an activist who monitors conservative organizations said the coalition never recovered from Reed's departure -with its staff and annual budget shrinking. 
"They've been in free-fall ever since," said Peter Montgomery of the liberal group People for the American Way. "It's not sur­prising that local affiliates want to distance themselves from this floundering organization." 
Steve Scheffler, who led the breakaway of the coalition's Iowa chapter in March, blamed Combs herself for much of the friction, saying she didn't treat the heads of the state affiliates with respect. 



THE OBSERVER 








IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, August 24, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Strange bedfellows 
1'he lmkpendnrt, Daily New~apn-Serviwg Nom Dame 1mJ Saim MaryS 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kare Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxrader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: JeffAlbert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2..4000} is publishe-d Monday through Friday except during exam and v:acatiop_ periods. A subm;.riptioQ to Tht:-Observer is $100 for one-a~"lldemic: 
ycar:$55ftlroncsemcstcr.  ·  
The Ob.~rvcr is published at:  POSTMASTER  
024 South Dining Hall  Send address correcrions to:  
Nom: Dame, IN 46556..0779  TIU! Observer  
Periodical postage paid at None D.amc  W. Box779  
and additional mailing offices.  024 South Dining Hall  
Nmre Dame, IN 464$56-0779  

The Observer is .a ~mlxr ofthe Associated Press. All reproduction rights .ue 
r~rvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Kelly Meehan Chris Khorey Kate Antonacci Dan Murphy Eileen Duffy Deirdre Krasula 
Katie McDonnell Scene Viewpoint Erin McGinn Joey King Brian Doxtader Graphics Illustrator Jeff Albert Robin Fallon 
Between their normal routines of pray­ing, archery lessons, and flagpolcd-under­pants pranks, numerous Christian camps across the country are now incorporating "a science curriculum about God's Creation" into their 
summertime activities, says a recent Newsweek article. One educational director  James Dechant Foregone Conclusion  
says the aim is to give  

the kids enough of a background in the idea that, going back to school and learn­ing about evolution, they will think, "Oh, that sounds goofY!" 
Wild-eyed fanatics like these, spouting their subversive fundamentalist views, arc going to destroy this country's technologi­cal gravitas as our youth turn away from the study of sciences and revert baek to ignorant, primitive religions. Or at least that's what some left-wingers would have you believe. 
The article also covered atheist-spon­sored camps practicing the same indoctri­nation with the opposing goal. Some fun­damentalist Christians would in turn argue that atheist scientists like these, bent on corrupting the moral character of our children, are hypnotizing them to reject God and luring them to revel in a libertine lifestyle of devilry and hedonism. Which is, of course, equally ridiculous. 
Why all the fervor over educational con­tent? Had parents always taken this strong an interest in their children's edu­cation, we might see fewer high-school dropouts, decreased gang activity, and a mainstream spike in studiousness. The evolution debate is being played out large­ly by myopic adults, while the children too often resemble chess pieces in some larger conflict. 
For some reason, many uncompromis­ing believers cannot accept, or refuse to accept, over a century of rigorous scientif­ic inquiry. Admittedly, scientific thought 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 

itself demands wild guesses, un-testablc theories, and acceptance of certain tenets or laws-in short, it's just another system of faith. Heligion should recognize this afiinity and not see scinnee as a threat which undnrmines its own faith. 
I leads arn particularly hard in my home state of Kansas. At a Board of Education evolution hearing in 2005, board member Kathy Martin boldly dedared: "Evolution has been proven false." It has, Ms. Martin? Where was I when they announced this? She perceives evolution-"an unproven, often disproven" theory, she said in further comments-as an implicit attack on her beliefs, and she is not alone. Ergo the intense controversy and either/or choices thrust upon children. 
The downside of this entirn dispute, however, is not that children will be swayed one way or the other. When was the last time you contemplated the origins of the species? Heally, how often does that come up? Now I know, personally, I like to start ofl' my day with orange juice, cereal, and ruminations on the liner points of Darwinian survivalism, but I thought I was the only one. I Ionestly, this issue seldom arises as a tense conversation between high school students, or adults for that matter. It's one of those three-in-the­morning questions, but not something that affects our daily lives. 
Yes, this may come as a shock to some people: students who miss out on the study of evolution are not going to be rationally handicapped for the rest of their educational careers. They will not be socially stunted or unable to gain accept­ance to the college of their dreams. Similarly, kids who learn about evolution are not going to have their spirituality stripped away and their faith annihilated by the unforgiving embrace of atheistic science. Too often the extremist enclaves in our country, a country still trying to define its moral nature, try to argue that 
WE ARE NOW PREPARED TO HAVE SERIOUS TALKS ABOUT OUR NUCLEAR PROGRAM 
one of these apocalyptic scenarios will be 
the long-term consequence of a high 
school biology class. 
The danger, instead, lies in that children arn being trained to think that religion and science cannot co-exist. The Religious and the Scientific realms become naturally repulsive of each other, allowing room lor no crossover. The secular sphere is always afraid of encroachment by domineering rnligious forces, and vice-versa. Children are eaught in the middle. 
Why should we pass on to the next gen­eration the rabid and uncompromising views of obsessed scientists or fanatical religious? The Pat Robertsons and the Felix Hoenikkers of this world should not be dictating what our children will learn. Evolution need not be seen as a threat to Christianity. Pursuing secular or scientific studies should not preclude anyone from fully practicing their religious faith. 
The tension between these realms reverberates internally and externally. We are all familiar with this conflict, especially at this University. Yet here I fmd encour­agement. Many of us have learned that our faiths and our scientific pursuits do not have to be mutually exclusive. I hesi­tate to say we have learned to "balance" science and religion, because neither should have to be compromised. Science can describe the how, but it cannot address the why. The why-this "ulti­mate concern" -is what believers ought to engage and affirm. 
Then science could focus on the really important questions, such as, how do they get 1,000 chips in every bag? 
James Dechant is a junior English and theology major. Questions, comments, and rude remarks can be sent to jdechant@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Hveryone thinks of changing the world, but no one thinks of changing himself" 
Leo Tolstoy Russian author 


THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Thursday, August 24, 2006 page 13 
Innocent bystanders 
This summer, I was supposed to spend a month studying at the University of Balamand, an Orthodox Christian uni­versity in northern Lebanon with a mis­sion to spread tolerance, human dignity and Christian-Muslim understanding through the Middle East region. 
Unfortunately, two weeks into the pro­gram, increasing hos­tilities between Hezbollah militants and the Israeli army turned the small Middle Eastern nation into a battle­ground. 
Fighting broke out the same day my classmates and I left for a planned weekend excursion into Syria -though we were blissfully unaware of the chaos around us until we reached a Syrian passport control officer who gave us the news. We left the University at 5 a.m., crossing the border not long before the road we had been driving on was bombed by Israeli fighter jets. I spent the next six days outside Damascus, unable to re-enter Lebanon and without most of my pos­sessions, before flying home two weeks earlier than I had planned. 
I returned home to almost a hero's welcome, with family, friends and acquaintances telling me how they'd prayed for my safe return and newspa­per and TV reporters clamoring to interview me. 
But I hadn't done anything other than stay in a hotel a few days longer than expected. The real heroes were back in the Middle East. 
Several Balamand students and facul­ty members acted as "facilitators" of my study program, which was open to peo­ple from all over North and South America but included mostly Mexicans and Canadians. Some of these Lebanese students were scheduled to graduate in late July (a ceremony that was quickly scrapped when the war began). In the meantime, they had decided to give up their summers at home to stay at school helping foreigners navigate their coun­try, acting as interpreters, tour guides, and friends. They showed us around the 

Chris Khorey 
Associate Sports Editor 

U-WIRE 
In Oklahoma, no one may spit on a sidewalk, and females are forbidden from doing their own hair without being licensed by the state, according to www.dumblaws.com. 
Similarly stupid, 

Katherine

but a little less openly 

Vincent

regarded as superflu­ous, are the bedroom 
University of

laws such as: "It is 
Oklahoma

illegal to have sex 
Daily

before you are mar­ried" and "Oral sex is a misdemeanor and is punishable by one year in jail and a $2,500 fine." 
The fact that these laws are still in the books and at some point made it onto the State Congressional floor is beyond my comprehension of a sup­posed freedom-giving Constitution. 
Then again, it makes sense if one actually takes the time to think about our freedom in the United States. 
Who cares if we can't marry whomever we want, smoke whatever kind of "cigarettes" we prefer, or import turtles from Bangladesh? 
At least we can still drive Hummers and watch Laguna Beach until our ears begin to ooze the last sense of reason and self-respect we had left. 
If the laws I stated above seem to be numerous historic, cultural and reli­gious sites that dot the Lebanese coun­tryside, proudly pointing out ancient landmarks and beautiful new buildings that arose after the civil war of the 1970s and 80s. Between classes and touring we watched the World Cup together, cheering in four languages for players from around the globe. 
When we foreigners went to Syria, many of the facilitators came, finding themselves separated from -and oftentimes unable to contact -their friends and families as the bombing in Lebanon intensified. Yet, even as they stared in disbelief at television images of explosions in their newly rebuilt capi­tal city, they continued to make our safety and transport home their top pri­ority. Hospitable even in the worst of times, they seemed determined to make our stay in the region pleasant even while it exploded around them. 
One Balamand senior, a man named Jad, was unable to get a hold of anyone in his home town for days after Israeli rockets knocked out a nearby cell phone tower. One night I saw him, after yet another unsuccessful attempt to get through, sitting in dejection on the stairs in front of our hotel. When he saw me coming, however, he twisted his face into a smile and turned his atten­tion to me. Had I called my parents? Was I scared? Was I excited about visit­ing some nearby ruins? This man, who for all he knew could have had his home destroyed, was most interested in my feelings and my well-being. 
Pierre, a Balamand faculty member who was especially close to English speaking students like me, had an opportunity to leave-an available plane ticket from Damascus to Athens, to the safety of his girlfriend's home in Greece. He didn't take it. He stayed with his old friends from Balamand and his new friends, the foreigners he had escorted to Syria. 
Greater even than the selflessness they showed was their love for their homeland. Every single Balamand stu­dent and faculty member with me in Syria quickly decided that they would return to Lebanon only when they saw their guests safely out of harm. There was a commitment even as the Israelis decimated the country that everything would be rebuilt again, not just as it was, but better. 

This commitment was shared not just by those born in Lebanon, but also by those who made it their adopted coun­try. Alejandro, an Argentinian-born seminary student who signed up to help the foreign students because he was one of the few people at Balamand who could translate between Arabic and Spanish, held an Argentinian passport, with which he could be on the other side of the world with ease. But he did­n't use it. Soon after I came home, he returned to Lebanon to continue his journey to the priesthood in his now war-torn, adopted country. 
Lebanon is a peace-loving nation, a country that had only recently finished rebuilding from its horrible civil war. Its fledgling democratic government was finally on its feet after years of med­dling by the Syrians. Tourists from around the world were flocking to its beaches and historic and religious sites. 
Then the small nation found itself caught between a terrorist militia it couldn't control and a vengeful neigh­bor it couldn't stop. 
And so Lebanon became a battle­ground once again, another huge rebuilding task looming once the death and destruction end. And once again its selfless, generous people will pick up the pieces and try to make their country the peaceful, prosperous place they all know it can be. 
And then foreigners won't be the only ones who can go home to safety. 
Chris Khorey is a junior history major andjournalism, ethics, and democracy minor living in Siegfried Hall. A quarter Lebanese, he is a proud member of Notre Dame's Orthodox Christian Fellowship. He can be contacted at ckhorey@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



The root cause of dumb laws 
outdated and trivial, take a moment to think about the legislation banning homosexual marriage. 
It has always been beyond my intel­lectual capacity to understand why anyone, much less the state, is con­cerned with another person's sex life. 
To me, it is not a matter of protecting the sanctity of marriage, but instead a fight to protect the sanctity of igno­rance-ignorance supported and enforced by governmental and reli­gious sanction. 
As I understand it, it is easier to con­trol people if they don't think for them­selves. 
And besides, thinking for yourself can get you into all kinds of trouble, as well as stick you with this horrible thing called accountability. 
I admit that life would be much easi­er and much more peaceful if we didn't have to make our own decisions as to what is right. 
If people were allowed to reason for themselves, our country wouldn't have so many volumes of laws that combat just that: personal choice and account­ability. 
The contempt that those in power show to questioning individuals is a testament to our lack of faith in each other and the necessity for the blind obedience a micro-managing bureau­cracy such as ours requires. 

Despite what your parents, elemen­tary school teacher and youth minister have implied with their meatless "answers," asking questions is not against the rules. If something doesn't make sense, we shouldn't be afraid to investigate until our own sense of rea­son is satisfied. 
Treating the symptoms, instead of the issue by creating freedom-stunting laws represents the public opinion that people are inherently bad and inca­pable of reason and self-control. 
It accuses each of us of the crimes of our fellow citizen. 
Our myriad laws do not solve the problems they profess but instead limit the freedom that should rationally be ours. 
Does a Jaw such as "It is illegal to wear your boots to bed" really impede freedom, or is it just a ridiculous waste of time? 
I would have to say it is both -and one is a direct result of the other. 
When legislators waste their time and our tax money counteracting "destructive" behavior, they increase, or at the least sustain, the need for said tax money. By taking our money in taxes, they limit our economic free­dom. 
Maybe that is why laws such as this one are still on the books: because leg­islators don't want to waste their time and ours to prove that the government feels it is their right to micro-manage our lives. 
For those of you who disagree with me, ask yourself why. 
In saying this, I am not implying that you are wrong: If you have a reason based on your own sense of rationale and not on the ideas fed to you by an ancient book or another person, I would have to agree that you are right 
Not right in the traditional sense­that others should agree with you based on historical data you have "analyzed" -but right in a way that you should agree with what reason and common sense leads you to believe. 
This column originally appeared in the August 23 edition ofthe Oklahoma Daily. the daily publication at the University of Oklahoma. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 






CENE

page 14 Thursday, August 24, 2006 
CD REVIEWS 

AFI's latest looks from 'December' to new year 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
Any band that has been around for a decade and a half faces the problem of musical growth. This does not necessari­ly mean being able to please people with the latest album, it means balancing what the band thinks is the right direc­tion and what the fans think is the right direction. 
More so with punk than other genres, a legion of hardcore fans can about-face and call a band 'corporate', a 'sell-out' and other such admonishing titles that leave them out in the cold with no main­stream support and little of its original fan base. Or, conversely, the band can do exactly as it pleases without regard to anyone. 
This attitude -that the music is more for artists and if the fans like it, great, if not, well they shouldn't buy the record -has defined the band AFI (A Fire Inside) in recent years. AFI released its seventh album "Decemberunderground" amid talk of yet another shift in its career. After humble beginnings as hardcore punks with "Answer That and Stay Fashionable" and "Very Proud of Ya," the first shift began to occur. AFI 

2.0 started with 1997's "Shut Your Mouth & Open Your Eyes." This album introduced an AFI that was less punk rock and more a band in the vein of The Misfits. 
Dark, brooding and morose lyrics began to surface and the band was fre­quently seen wearing black. This culmi­nated with what many consider to be the peak of its career, "The Art of Drowning" (2000). This album also marked the beginnings of its success outside the usu­ally tight-lipped punk circles and into a wider audience. 
"The Art of Drowning" was also the last album AFI released with the inde­pendent label Nitro Hecords and the beginning of its relationship with Dreamworks. "Sing the Sorrow" (2003) was its major label debut and saw many new fans enter the scene, while many of the old guard left in disgust with the directions the band was taking. After this whirlwind, the latest installment arrived -"Decemberunderground" on Interscope Records. 
The poetic, 
melancholy lyrics that have come to
AFI 

Photo courtesy of ::h.tefu;;;;~;tc;~ AFI's latest release, "Decemberunderground," showcases the band's musical progression from its hardcore punk origins to more a more diverse sound. 

define AFI since tronica inl'luences that AFI has been transitioning halfway through to "Shut Your Mouth" experimenting with since "The Art of sounds more like Death Cab for Cutie
Decemberunderground 

return in the Drowning." Havok provides swooping than Glenn Danzig. The future of AFI beginning of the vocals that do not seem to have lost their seems to lie with the combination of the
Interscope Records 

album. punch after vocal chord surgery. hardcore aesthetic, the Halloweenish 
Per tradition on However, with all the talk of transi­image and the polished nature of elec AFI's works, the tions and career changes aside, troniea. first track serves "Decemberunderground" reveals a band The once-straight-up punk rock 

L------------'1 more as a prelude that knows where it came from and from Northern California has eome a where it wants to go. long way since 1991. 
Recommended tracks: 'Kill Caustic,''AfJmiction,' than an opening
F song. Front man "Kill Caustic," effectively the first track 'Miss Murder' and 'Endlessly, She Said' Davey Havok sings on the album after the prelude, is the Contact Marty Schroeder at '---------------------------' of fare we lis and sock-in-the-stomach punk that remi-mschroel @nd.edu 
Journey still'Believin" a quarter century later:i 
long sleeps, references to death that lit within the bands seeming obsession with life transitions and the macabre. The title of this album's single makes the band's fascinations literal -"Miss Murder" is poetic, anthemic, nocturnal, melodic and explores some of the elec­nisces about AFI's earlier days. tears his voice through nails in "Affliction" and reminds the band's die­hard fans that hardcore punk is no dead. 
The band, however, heads in a more independent direction with the 
By SEAN SWEANY Assistant Scene Editor 
Journey immortalized "Don't Stop Believin"' over two decades ago. And while many have adopted this mantra ­including the 2005 World Series Champion Chicago White Sox -perhaps no one has kept believing as much as Journey itself. 
Founded in 1973 by former members of Santana, Journey became immensely pop­ular in the 1980s with hit singles such as "Open Arms" and "Wheel in the Sky." 
The band's album "Escape" hit number one on the charts in August of 1981 and reached platinum nine times. One of their Escape shows, on Nov. 6, 1981 in Houston, was recorded and aired on MTV and has been recently released in DVD/CD format. 
This DVD is a must for any Journey fan, as it showcases Journey in its Steve Perry prime. Lead vocalist Perry contributes his unique voice along with an infectious 

Journey 
Live in Houston, 1981 
Columbia/Legacy 

energy that clearly roused the Texas crowd on that November night. Perry is joined by Neal Schon on guitar, Hoss Valory on bass, Steve Smith on the drums and Jonathan Cain playing the keyboards. 
Cain's role in the show is paramount because his piano notes have the ability to perfectly mimic Perry's vocal range, most notably on the eponymous l"irst song. When he starts the show, Perry exudes boyish energy and sets the tone for a non­stop barrage of high vocals and guitar riffs. 
Many of the songs on the DVD an'l more unknown and even some unreleased Journey tunes like "Lights" and "Dead or Alive," but there are plenty of favorites such as "Open Arms," "Don't Stop Believin'," "Wheel in the Sky" and "Any Way You Want It." 
There are some lesser known hits later in the disc including "Who's Crying Now" and a Jonathan Cain piano solo. The con­cert ends with songs that are more famil­iar and loved by most audiences. 
This disc functions in any CD player, but 
the real value of 

courtesy Journey models its trademark hairdos and outrageous clothes, which featu prominently on the recent release of "Live in Houston 1981: The Escape Tour." 

the collection is in the accompanying DVD. Seeing the members of the band with long hairdos and outra­geous-looking, ill­fitting clothes gives a sense of how 1980s power rock bands functioned. 
embrace this DVD/CD for its previou unreleased Journey material along exciting footage of the band and le singer Steve Perry. Less enthusias Journey supporters might find the for the DVD/CD too steep and opt to chase a regular CD of Journey hi instead. 
The popularity of Journey songs on the radio and internet has led to 2006 U.S. tour and a planned 2007 tour well. It's clear that both the rock and community and the band itself won't believing in the power of Journey's over a quarter of a century later. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edn Recommended tracks: 'Don't Stop Believin',' Perry's extraordi­

nary energy gives

'Any Way You Want It' and 'Wheel in the Sky' him unnatural 

'---------------------------' speed as he runs 
around the stage during songs and plays to the crowd. Unfortunately, the coneert is without the typical 80s lasers, dry ice smoke and erupting fireballs to round out the show. Nevertheless, watching this MTV program from 1981 and comparing it to today's MTV slate a quarter of a cen­tury later shows how mueh the network has changed over the years. 
Also included on the DVD are interviews with various band members during the "Escape" tour, a slide show of the tour and the original television promo for the tour. Although these extras might be enjoyable for the stalwart Journey aficionado, they will likely disappoint the casual fan. 
But any Journey fan can eagerly 


THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Thursday, August 24, 2006 
page 15 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
Hitchcock's iconic 'Psycho' to screen at DPAC 
Photo courtesy Janet Leigh is featured in one of the most iconic scenes in cinema history in Alfred Hitchcock's "Psycho." It will be screened this weekend at the DPAC. 
'Brick' a rock-solid experiment in modern noir 
Brendan {Joseph Gordon-Levitt) receives a mysterious phone call in Rian Johnson's ultra-modern film noir "Brick," showing at the DPAC this weekend. 
By ERIN McGINN 
Assistant Scene Editor 
What all of the best high school-based films have in common is the ability to convey how every aspect of teenage life is viewed as a matter of life or death. "Brick," like the other successful movies of the "high school drama" genre, achieves this goal by taking the world of the film noir detec­tive stories and 
deftly applying it to Brick from his ex-girl­a high school set­
friend Emily (Emilie ting -thus mak­DeRavin of televi­ing the life or sion's "LOST") and death struggles of subsequently dis­the teenagers liter-Where: Browning Cinema, DPAC covers her dead al as opposed to When: Sunday at 7 p.m. body. 
figurative. The kids in "Brick" take everything seriously, because the events of the plot actually are serious. 
The seriousness of the movie produces both enjoyment and entertainment, as opposed to bearing it down, and writer/director Rian Johnson uses this aspect to his full advantage.Referencing and using dialogue in the style of "Maltese Falcon," "Blue Velvet" and "Chinatown" is inherently funny as well as fascinating to hear. 
He successfully translated all of the archetypes present in these types of film to those of high school characters. "Brick" has representatives of several archetypes, including the reluctant anti­hero, informants, femme fatales and plenty of 1930s slang and shady charac­ters. 
More eye-opening than anything, it is interesting to see how easily the students in the film fit into these roles. As everyone knows, there is no one more shady than high school drug dealers -so really, it is not much of a stretch. 
Brendan (Joseph Gordon-Levitt, "1 0 Things I Hate About You") is an outsider at his Southern California high school, not because he lacks good looks or athletic ability, but because he has chosen the lone wolf lifestyle. He is forced into action when he receives a strange phone call 
The mystery of 

her death unfolds in a complicated story that involves the school's toughest thugs and their hired goons, and Brendan trudges from one situation to another in his quest for truth. 
In the grand tradition of these films, the audience is left in the dark too, learning the truth only as quickly as Brendan him­self discovers it. 
Brendan is eventually led to The Pin (an adult Lukas Hass, who passes for a teenager), easily the most entertaining character in the movie, who runs his drug business from the basement of his par­ents' home. He also goes back and forth, working with and against Laura (Nora Zehetner of television's "Everwood"), the literal teenage drama queen. 
Johnson's smartest move is that the kids do not appear to know they are in a detective story. They are not talking in 
other Hitchcock film -the director
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
clearly knew he had something great,
Scene Editor 
and that gives "Psycho" a more focused 
energy that drives it through a very fast 
Without doubt the most famous film of 120 minutes. director Alfred Hitchcock's storied The film is easily the most shocking in career, 1960's "Psycho" remains one of Hitchcock's oeuvre -the so-called the finest thrillers of all time. Shocking "master of suspense" really outdoes and controversial when released, the himself, stretching the boundaries of movie's ability to shock and scare has acceptable narrative convention nearly dimmed slightly over the years, mostly to its breaking point. The protagonist is due to its ubiquitousness -yet that very killed halfway through the film, the vio­familiarity is itself a testament to the lence (both shown and implied) is actual­film's greatness. ly scary and the villain as creepy as they 
Initially, "Psycho" seems to follow a come, serving as the template for every-fairly traditional one from Hannibal path. A frustrat­Lector (1991's "The ed young woman Psycho Silence of the named Marion 
Lambs") to John Doe Crane (Janet (1995's "Se7en"). Leigh) impulsive­Hitchcock pushed ly steals $40,000 the envelope of the from her job at a Where: Browning Cinema, DPAC time in ways both 
real estate office When: Saturday at 3 p.m. large and small, and takes off expanding the lim­with the money. its of what was con­A day later, she decides to stop at the sidered appropriate in films. A shot Bates Motel, run by boyish Norman rejected because it supposedly showed Bates (Anthony Perkins). He regales her Janet Leigh's nipple was sent back with odd stories about his unseen moth­unchanged and then accepted, a shot er before Crane decides to take a shower that contained a toilet in it was consid­and go to bed. ered racy and vulgar. 
Then the film unexpectedly twists in Nearly everything about "Psycho" is on itself and becomes something else famous. Anthony Perkins' portrayal of entirely. the Oedipal Bates is iconic while Janet 
The plot twist is almost universally Leigh makes the most of her screen known, thanks in no small part to the time, giving one of the most memorable classic shower scene. Despite the fact screams in cinema history. that it has been parodied, remade, quot­The justifiably famous music by the ed, referenced and paid homage to, legendary Bernard Hermann, complete Hitchcock's brave and bold vision shines with those screeching strings, remains through some forty-six years later -a among the composer's most recogniza­testament to the director's nearly unpar­ble. alleled narrative power. That power is The film's stark black-and-white cine­on display here perhaps more than any matography is appropriately creepy 
(especially in the scenes featuring Perkins), demonstrating Hitchcock's mastery of shadow and darkness. 
The only scene that really doesn't work is an overly expository conclusion that features a psychiatrist whose only purpose is to explain exactly what hap­pened. It's difficult to believe that Hitchcock wanted this scene as he was never known for insulting his audience's intelligence. Thankfully, its presence doesn't fully detract from the greatness of the film. 
"Psycho" is in many ways the pinnacle of Hitchcock's career, checking in at No. 18 on the American Film Institute's list of the Greatest Films of All Time. When it was released back in 1960, it conclud­ed a fruitful and productive decade for the director, a period which included masterpieces such as "Strangers on a Train," (1951) "Rear Window" (1954), "North by Northwest" (1959) and "Vertigo" (1958). 
Hitchcock had several inarguable mas­terpieces over the course of his several decade career (including those men­tioned above), but few have had the staying power and long-reaching influ­ence of "Psycho," which remains his most iconic film and a cinematic water­shed 
Alfred Hitchcock's "Psycho" will be screened in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Saturday at 3 p.m. as part of the PAC Classic 100. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

that style on purpose -it's just how they talk. There is no winking self-awareness so the gimmick feels natural throughout the film. The entire cast-adults includ­ed -also behave in this manner. The one adult who is not part of this world is the mother of The Pin, who interrupts a tense discussion of gang warfare and murder to ask if anyone wants milk and cookies in a highly entertaining scene. 
Despite its obvious influences, Johnson, in this debut film, has not just set out to re-create the 1940s film noir. In fact, the movie most commonly referenced here is Roman Polankski's classic "Chinatown," the Jack Nicholson film that, while cer­tainly noir-ish, was shot in color and released in 1974. 
"Brick" is in color too, and while it maintains the old-school style of profani­ty-free dialogue, it does feature at least one instance of violence that is far more graphic than anything Humphrey Bogart ever starred in -a reminder, perhaps, that the real world is more startling than the romanticized movie versions of mur­der and intrigue from the 1940s would suggest. 
"Brick" will be screened on Sunday at 7 
p.m. by the Notre Dame film society. All are welcome. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, August 24, 2006 

Alfonzo delivers second straight game winner 
Cabrera smashes two home runs and four RBis to lead Marlins over Washington for the third night in a row 
Associated Press the lead. Ray Durham hit a three-run SAN FRANCISCO -Rookie homer to establish a new Eliezer Alfonzo climbed the career high for RBis in a sea­stairs to the clubhouse son and Giants slugger Barry entrance to find Hall of Farner Bonds had back-to-hack multi­Orlando Cepeda there waiting hit games for the first time with a congratulatory hug and since Aug. 20-21, 2004, against handshake. Armando Benitez the New York Mots. received his share of high-fives, Bonds singled to center in the too. first to drive in a run and Alfonzo delivered the go­Durham followed with a shot ahead hit for the second that barely carried into the straight game and Benitez con­right-field arcade for his 20th verted a much-needed save, home run. lifting the San Francisco Giants Durham, among a handful of to a 7-6 victory over the key Giants players set to Arizona Diamondbacks on become a free agent after the Wednesday. season, extended his season­Pedro Feliz ended an 0-for-15 high hitting streak to 13 games stretch with a tying two-run -the best by a Giants player double in the seventh and the this year -and matched his Giants won for the eighth time career-best homers total that in 10 games heading into a he also accomplished with the four-game series against the NL White Sox in 2001. wild card-leading Cincinnati Durham has a career-high 77 Reds. RBis, two more than he had in Benitez came through a day 2000 for Chicago. after manager Felipe Alou The 42-year-old Bonds pulled him with two outs in the reached on an infield single in ninth following an RBI single to the third, grounded out to first Luis Gonzalez. This time, the in the fifth and 11ied out to cen­single was the biggest hit dur­front of him and lecture. lead. 
embattled eloser pitched a per­ter in the seventh. lie had live ing the 11-batter rally, which "lie didn't have to take otl' his Scott Olsen (1 0-7) pitched six fect ninth -striking out hits in the series, ineluding his got Houston's slumping offense mask and come around in front innings, giving up three runs on Gonzalez on a slider to end it. 725th career home run Monday rolling again. of me like that," Hoss said. seven hits, to rebound after his 
"People expect to see me night that pulled him within 30 Willy Taveras bunted for a The next pitch looked low -shortest outing of the season come into the game and do of tying home run king Jlank single that extended his hitting Boss raised it back into the and snap a personal three­what I did today. I expect it," Aaron's record of 755. The streak to a elub-record 26 strike zone -but Coffey took a game losing streak. Benitez said. "I take responsi­slugger doubled and singled games, and Adam Everett couple of steps toward the Olsen became the third bility if I lose the game. If I Tuesday. homered and drove in a pair of plate, screamed and waved his Marlins rookie pitcher to reach make a mistake, I make a mis­Giants ace Jason Schmidt runs for the defending NL arm when Bell called it a ball. 10 victories this season, mark­take. You have to understand received a no-decision but is champions, who have lost 9 of He was ejected. ing the first time since the 1952 you're human. You're not a still 11-0 over his last 16 starts 12 and are starting to feel des­"I think Wally had just had Brooklyn Dodgers -and only robot." against Arizona. lie loaded the peration. enough when Coffey eame off the third time since 1900 ­
Steve Kline (4-3) pitched one bases by plunking pinch-hitter Houston is at the back of the the mound," manager Jerry that a team has had three rook­inning for the win and Benitez, Craig Counsell in the sixth, then pack of playoff contenders, Narron said. ies with at least 10 wins. booed yet again when he took Byrnes followed with a single to trailing Cincinnati by six games Ryan Franklin relieved with a Tony Armas Jr. (8-9) lasted the mound, earned his 16th center. for the wild card. 3-1 count on Ensberg, threw a only 1 2-3 innings for save in 24 chances. He pumped "We lost a lot of ground the called strike that drew a loud Washington, giving up eight his right fist when his job was Houston 7, Cincinnati 3 last three or four days," said eheer from the crowd of runs -five earned -and 10 done and pointed to the sky in Todd Coffey lost it. Roy Oswalt (10-8), who 24,873, then walked him to hits. It was his shortest outing celebration. Unable to control his anger improved to 16-1 eareer force in the go-ahead run and of the season and his third loss 
Alfonzo tripled to right-center over a disputed call, the against Cincinnati. "We've got end the drawn-out at-bat. in three decisions against moments after Feliz doubled to Cincinnati Reds reliever got to go to Pittsburgh and pretty Florida. He is 3-12 with a 5.98 center against Brandon Lyon ejected during the game's piv­much sweep the Pirates." Florida 9, Washington 7 EHA in his career against the (1-3) to tie it at 6. The Giants otal at-bat, helping the Houston The Heds had won four in a Miguel Cabrera homered Marlins. completed a three-game sweep Astros rally for a victory row -their best streak in twice and drove in four runs, Felipe Lopez had three hits, of the stumbling Wednesday that averted a more than a month -but helping the Florida Marlins and Austin Kearns, Henry Diamondbacks, who lost their sweep. eouldn't keep it going because eomplete a three-game sweep Mateo and Daryle Ward home­fourth straight and sixth of His outburst wasn't the only they couldn't keep their of the Washington Nationals red for the Nationals, who com­seven. Alfonzo had a go-ahead wacky thing during Houston's thoughts to themselves. with a vietory Wednesday night. mitted three errors and lost double in the eighth inning of six-run rally in the seventh Trying to hold a 2-1 lead, Cabrera, who went 3-for-4 their fifth straight. Tuesday's 7-6 victory. inning, but it was the most Coffey (6-5) gave up a single by and scored three times, became Cabrera hit a two-run home 
"Today I was so excited," he telling. A Reds team trying to Chris Burke that tied it, then the fifth active player to reach run in the second to start a said. "What I put in my mind is reach the playoffs for the first intentionally walked Lanee 100 career home runs before five-run rally and he followed trying to work every day -time in 11 years came Berkman to load the bases. his 24th birthday. He also that the next inning with a solo believe in yourself." unhinged with the game on the Then, the meltdown began. became the sixth-youngest shot. 
Eric Byrnes hit a two-run sin­line. Plate umpire Wally Bell called player overall to reaeh the After Escobar s RBI double gle in the sixth inning to give "I let the team down and a ball on a elose pitch to milestone. gave Washington a 1-0 lead in the Diamondbacks the lead and made myself look like an idiot Morgan Ensberg that left the Dan Uggla, Mike Jaeobs and the first inning, the Marlins fol­rookie Chris Young had his first out there," Coffey said. count at 2-1. Catcher David Hanley Hamirez also had two lowed with a three-run rally major league homer with a The fading Astros took full Ross told the umpire that he hits for the Marlins, who batted after the first five batters two-run shot in the fourth, but advantage. disagreed, prompting Bell to around in the first and seeond reached base safely against the Arizona's bullpen couldn't hold Aubrey Huff's bases-loaded remove his mask, stepped in innings while taking an 8-1 Nationals. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office,  
CLASSIFIEDS  024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
SOCCER REFEREES -needed for  Need 4 ND-PSU tix · 75 alum seeks  B&B for football weekends. 1.5 mi  Rent a home ND football week·  
south side elementary school, local·  4 for PSU game 9/9/06. Pis call714  to ND. Shuttle to/from games. Matt  ends. 574·784·8638.  
FoR SALE  ed near Erskine Golf Course on  523 0601 or email:  FoR RENT  or Jess  
Miami Street. $35.00 per soccer  aherenda@ comcast.net  574·287-0927.  House in the Woods, furnished, 7  
game. Call574·291·4200.  B&B lodging w/alum for ND football  mi. to ND, 2 bdrm,2bath, garage,  
2004 Mazda 3. 30+ MPG. 5·speed.  A BUSINESSMAN PAYING TOP$$  games. 574·243-2628 or gary- Lake home available for all 7 Notre  quiet, safe, only distractions: deer,  
Many safety & power options. 4  Now hiring seasonal help.  FOR SEASON TIX OR INDIVID­ therese@ yahoo.com  Dame home football games; luxuri­ firepit, creek for flyfishing, $675/mo  
new tires. 47k mi. $12,500. 273­ Halloween Express, 6502 Grape  UAL GAMES. CALL MARK 574·  ous Eagle lakefront, sleeps 10, 30  utilities incl. Grad students only.  
2792.  Road. 502-514-1409.  277·1659.  2 rooms in private home w/sepa­ minutes from campus. $1500 per  szbarton@aol.com or 269-684-1199  
rate entrance for football weekends.  weekend or discount for booking all  or 574·210·7186.  
Condo for sale 2 bdrm twnhse call  AN ACTUAL ABOVE-AVERAGE  Shared bath. Close to ND. 574-259·  7. Also available Dec.·April. 574·  
269-445-2765  TICKETS  ABIDING FAN DESPERATELY NEEDS FOOTBALL TIX. ANY OR ALL GAMES. LOCAL CALL 654­ 8603. 1·bdrm apt. $400 + util. Avail.  274·0089 Immaculate furnished apartment  PERSONAL  
WANTED  WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251-1570  0169.  Aug.30. 2 mi to ND, AC, security systems. free laundry, on bus route.  sleeps 3·4, walk to stadium and/or shuttle. Also, parking for one  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
6 Michigan tix avail for trade for 6  No smoking, no pets, 10 month  motorhome hookup. $600/weekend.  not go it alone. If you or someone  
ND family needs part·time nanny  FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232­ Penn St (only). Seats in 3 pr not  lease, deposit required. 574·289­ 57 4-272-6377.  you love needs confidential support  
for toddler. Flexible schedule avail·  0964  together. Tix on campus for easy  9365.  or assistance, please call Sr. Sue  
able.  exchange.  1·bdrrn apt. Quiet historic neighbor- Dunn, OP, at 1·7819. For more  
Please email  Need ND tix & parking pass all  Call 203-273·1463  2-3·4 bdrms. Share w/FRIENDS.  hood. 1 mi. to ND. $500/mo. Call  information, see our bi-weekly ad in  
neednanny05@ yahoo.com  home games. 574·276-8507.  or david.barnard@ bernstein.com  50% off if rented by 10/1. 255-7000.  57 4-283-0325.  The Observer.  

Thursday, August 24, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
MLB 

Thome injured in much-needed Chicago win 
Loaiza's four-hit shutout performance gives Oakland a win as Frank Thomas hits his 475th career home run 
Associated Press In the first, Miner was a strike grounder in the sixth made it 6­away from retiring the side in 0. 
DETROIT --The Chicago order --instead of giving up White Sox won a game they three runs in the inning. Tampa Bay 7, Texas 3 needed. They're hoping they Thome drew a two-out walk Jorge Cantu hit his first didn't lose a key player in the after facing an 0-2 count, Paul homer since July 29 and drove process. Konerko followed with a single in three runs to help the Tampa 
Jim Thome limped off the and Dye's 35th homer gave Bay Devil Rays beat the Texas field in the second inning with a Chicago a 3-0 lead. Rangers Wednesday night. hamstring injury in a 7-5 victo­Chicago lost the cushion Cantu hit a two-run drive in ry over the Detroit Tigers on briefly in the bottom half when fifth and a run-scoring double Wednesday night. Craig Monroe doubled and one inning later that gave 
The White Sox lost the first scored on Young's homer and Tampa Bay a 4-3 lead. He had two matchups in the four-game Magglio Ordonez doubled and sat out the previous two days series with the AL Central-lead­scored on Ivan Rodriguez's sin­and was hitting just .146 since ing Tigers, but bounced back gle. July 24 before going 3-for-4 with Joe Crede's two home runs Crede's leadoff homer in the against Texas. and Jermaine Dye's three-run second put the White Sox ahead Carl Crawford added a two­homer. for good. run shot in Tampa Bay's three­
Chicago, which had lost six of run seventh. It was his career­eight, trails the Tigers by 6 1/2 Oakland 6, Toronto 0 high 16th homer of the season. games in the division and has a Esteban Loaiza pitched a Mark Teixeira hit a two-run slim lead over Minnesota in the four-hitter for his first shutout homer for the Rangers, who wild-card race. in more than two years, and have lost the first three games 
The World Series champions Frank Thomas and Milton of a four-game series with the added Thome last winter and Bradley homered to lead the Devil Rays. Texas is 7 1/2 games after watching him hit .294 with Oakland Athletics to a victory behind the AL West-leading 36 homers and 91 RBis, they over the Toronto Blue Jays on Oakland Athletics, who beat don't want to lose him for any Wednesday night. Toronto 6-0. length of time with less than six Thomas hit his 475th homer, Shawn Camp (6-1) threw 1 1­weeks left in the season. tying Willie Stargell and Stan 3 scoreless innings to get the 
Thome pulled up after round­Musial for 23rd on the all-time win. The Devil Rays are 13-25 ing first base on a ground-rule list. since the All-Star break. double and favored his left leg, Thomas hit a two-run homer Rocco Baldelli doubled in a leading to manager Ozzie in the first off Gustavo Chacin run in the first and Cantu Guillen and team trainer Herm (6-3) for his 27th homer. He has snapped an 0-for-19 skid with Schneider quickly coming out of rebounded with a solid season his 1Oth homer of the season the dugout to check on him. after two injury-plagued years against Kevin Millwood (12-9) 
Dmitri Young hit a two-run in Chicago. Bradley's two-run in the fifth, putting the Devil Minnesota Twins defeated the begin a force play. homer for the Tigers, who can shot in the second made it 5-0. Rays ahead 3-0. Baltimore Orioles 4-1 Joe Mauer doubled and win the series with a victory Loaiza (7 -7) retired 15 Millwood gave up six runs Wednesday night. scored on a single by Cuddyer Thursday. straight batters during one and eight hits over 6 1-3 Torii Hunter homered for the to make it 4-1 in the fifth. In the 
The White Sox went ahead 6-stretch. He struck out seven and innings. Twins, who got 13 hits off Orioles' half, Cuddyer made a 3 with three runs in the second walked none for his sixth career The Rangers tied it at 3 in the Baltimore starter Rodrigo diving catch of a sinking liner and maintained their three-run shutout and his first since April top of the sixth when Teixeira Lopez. Minnesota started the by Markakis with two outs and lead until the sixth. 18, 2004, versus Tampa Bay. hit his 21st homer and Rod day a half-game behind the a runner on third. 
Sean Casey, the first to face Oakland, which began the day Barajas doubled in a run Chicago White Sox in the AL Garza waited in the infield to reliever Matt Thornton, hit a with four-game lead over Los against Casey Fossum. wild-card race. give Cuddyer a high-five on his two-run double to pull Detroit Angeles in the AL West, has Fossum didn't allow a hit in Garza (1-2) came in with an way to the dugout. within a run. won 19 of its last 24 games. the first three innings but the 11.7 4 ERA after losing his first 
Crede bumped the lead back Chacin, activated from the Rangers loaded the bases with two starts. The right-hander Pittsburgh 5, Atlanta 4 to two runs in the seventh with disabled list before the game, two outs in the fourth on two gave up five hits, had one Freddy Sanchez hit a his second homer. struggled in his first start after singles and a walk. Fossum strikeout and one walk. tiebreaking homer in the sev­
Freddy Garcia (12-8) allowed missing more than two months worked out of the jam by strik­Garza, the 25th overall pick in enth inning to hand Atlanta five runs and seven hits over 5 with a sore elbow. He allowed ing out Barajas. the 2005 amateur draft, retired another loss at Turner Field, 1-3 innings. Thornton and Mike five runs on six hits in just 1 1-3 Fossum allowed three runs the side in order only once but giving the Pittsburgh Pirates a MacDougal combined for 2 2-3 innings. The left-bander went and four hits in 5 2-3 innings. was aided by several fine defen­victory over the Braves on innings of scoreless relief before 0-3 with a 9.00 ERA in four He struck out eight and walked sive plays. Wednesday night. Bobby Jenks worked the ninth rehab starts in the minors. two. Joe Nathan, the fourth Jason Bay also homered for for his 36th save in 38 opportu­Oakland sent 10 men to the Minnesota reliever, worked the the Pirates, who won two of nities. plate in the first and scored Minnesota 4, Baltimore 1 ninth for his 26th save. three in Atlanta after coming 
Rookie Zach Miner (7-5) gave three runs on Bradley's RBI Rookie Matt Garza allowed Twins manager Ron into the series with baseball's up six runs, four hits and two double and Thomas' homer. one unearned run in six innings Gardenhire was tossed from the worst record on the road. They walks over 1 1-3 innings, his Chacin walked Mark Ellis to earn his !'irst major league game in the top of the fifth by won only their third series away shortest outing and third before Bradley's homer in the victory, Michael Cuddyer had plate umpire Angel Hernandez from PNC Park, having lost 17 straight loss. second. Jason Kendall's RBI three hits and two RBis, and the with Jason Kubel at bat. The and split another. 
ejection occurred while This is hardly the same Gardenhire was in the dugout, Braves team that came into the and the manager emerged to season with a record 14 plead his case-to no avail. straight division titles and has­
Lopez (9-13) gave up four n't had a losing record at home runs in six innings. He kept since 1990 -the year before Minnesota hitless in only one the streak began. They dropped inning, and the 13 hits he yield­to 26-33 at Turner Field, the ed were a season high. majors' second-worst home 
Nick Markakis drove in the record. lone run for the Orioles, who Suburban Atlanta native Matt had won five of six. Capps (4-1) struck out Matt 
The Twins went up 2-0 in the Diaz with the bases loaded to first inning when Cuddyer hit a end the sixth and wound up two-out RBI double and scored with the win when Sanchez on a single by Justin Morneau. homered off Chad Paronto (1-1) 
The Orioles scored an with two outs in the seventh, unearned run in the third when snapping a 4-all tie. Markakis hit an RBI single after Mike Gonzalez worked the shortstop Jason Bartlett booted ninth for his 23rd save in as a potential double-play many chances. grounder. Atlanta's Chipper Jones hit 
Hunter hit his 18th homer the 350th homer of his career leading off the fourth, and the to tie Chili Davis for the third­Twins used two defensive gems most by a switch-hitter in base­in the bottom half to maintain ball history. Only Mickey Mantle the 3-1 lead. After Hunter made (536) and Eddie Murray (504) a leaping catch in center with have more. Miguel Tejada on first, second Bay led off the second with 
AP baseman Luis Castillo dived his 28th homer, and the Pirates 

Twins firstbaseman Justin Morneau makes a spectacular catch In the second inning of behind the bag to snare a made it 2-0 in the fourth on Minnesota's 4-1 win over Baltimore Wednesday night. grounder by Jeff Conine to Bay's run-scoring double. 




OUND THE NATION 
Page 18 COMPILED FRO!v~ THE ()BSERVHt'S WlRE SERVlCES Thursday, August 24, 2006 

American League West 
team record perc; last 10 Oakland 71-55 .563 7.3 LA Angels 67-59 .532 7·3 Texas 65-62 .512 6,4 Seattle 57-68 .456 1·9 
National League East 
team record perc. last 10 NYMets 76·48 .613 7~3 Philadelphia 63·62 .504 7-3 Atlanta &9·66 .472 6·4 Florida 59·66 .472 5·5 Washinglon 54-72 .429 3·7 
National League Central 
team record perc. last 10 St. Louis 66~58 .532 4-6 Cincinnati 6~61 .&20 6·4 Milwaukee 68-65 .480 6·4 Houston 60"67 .472 3•7 Chicago Cubs 5H2 .424 s~5 Pillsburgh 4S.78 •381 s~s 
National League West 
team .J:'!')Cord pen/; last 10 LA Dodgers ···6~60 .524 6-:4 San Diego ... 64•62 ·.508 s~s Sanfr.mcisoo 62·65 .488 8·2 .. Arizona 62~65 .488 3-7 COlorado 59-66 .472 3·7 
GB 
4 6.5 13.5 
GB 
13.5 17.5 17.5 23 
GB 
1.5 
6.5 
7.5 
13.5 19 
GB 
2 
4.& 
4.5 
6.5 
Volleyball Coaches Poll 


around the dial 
MLB 
St. Louis at New York Mets 7:10p.m., ESPN2 
WNBA Connecticut at Detroit 7:30p.m., NBA TV Los Angeles at Sacramento 10 p.m., NBATV 
NFL 

AP 
Colts quarterback Peyton Manning looks to throw against the Seahawks in an NFL preseason game in Indianapolis Sunday. Manning traded in his football Monday night to raise money for disadvanta,ged children . 
Manninghostsfundraiserforyouthinneed 
INDIANAPOLIS -Peyton Manning is all business when it comes to football. 
But since it's still the preseason, forgive Manning if this week has been devoted more to his second vocation -helping others. 
He hosted a major fundraiser for his charity Monday night and fully understands if football seems more distraction than passion to the thou­sands of fans expected to watch him play New Orleans on Saturday night in Jackson, Miss. 
"It's good to go back there because it's got (Hurricane) Katrina ties to it," he said. "Anything we can do to help out is good." 

Manning is trying to recast the perception that he's the football equivalent to a high school valedicto­rian -all study, all the time. 
After Sunday's preseason game, he seemed more genuinely upset about the potential losses of his top backup, Jim Sorgi, and running back James Mungro than anything that happened on the field. 
By Monday night, the two-time MVP was min­gling at a local bowling alley with celebrities rang­ing from Cal Hipken Jr. 
and defending NASCAH champion Tony Stewart, to radio personalities Bob and Tom and actor James Den ton of the TV series "Desperate Housewives." 
The goal was to raise money for Manning's Peyback Foundation, which provides disadvan­taged youth with opportu­nities like a Disney Cruise, a nag football game at the Colts complex and Christmas parties for hun­dreds of children in Indianapolis, New Orleans and Knoxville, Tenn. 
And when it has Manning's imprint, calling in a few favors is no prob­lem. 
IN BRIEF 
NASCAR puts Edwards on 
probation 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. -Carl Edwards has gone from one of NASCAR's golden boys to one of the sport's "bad boys," struggling on the track and tangling with fellow driv­ers such as Dale Earnhardt Jr. off it. 
Don't expect him to apologize or to make excuses. If he loses his tem­per -and he has at times this year -Edwards says it's about passion not petulance. 
"I worked awfully hard to get here," Edwards said Wednesday. "I think that maybe what people are seeing is hopefully they understand that I really care about what I'm doing. I'm going to stand up and point out when I think something is wrong." 
If he has to, Edwards will ram the point home. Just ask Earnhardt. 
NASCAR fined Edwards $20,000 on Tuesday and placed him on pro­bation for the rest of the year after he intentionally rammed the side of Earnhardt's car on the final lap of last Saturday's Busch race at Michigan International Speedway. 

Riley to return to Miami 
for another year MIAMI -Pat Riley decided against quitting on top. He'd rather try to stay there another year. 
Riley said Wednesday he'll return as coach of the NBA champion Miami Heat, ending speculation he might retire at age 61. He'll be on the sideline when the title banner is raised at the season opener Oct. 31 against the Chicago Bulls. 
"After winning the championship, I realized there's always something meaningful that happens in your life that becomes the primary point of your destiny," Riley said in a state­ment. "Winning the championship showed me that I am definitely in the right place, at the right time, with the right people. I can't wait to get started." 
"We all know how great Peyton is," Ripken said. "He has such great credi­bility, that I can say yes blindly knowing it's about the kids." 
If that doesn't work, there's always intimida­tion. 
"Peyton is a lot bigger than me, and I didn't want to tell him no and then have him pick me up by the neck and drag me in here or something," Stewart joked. 
The bowling tournament has gone from infancy to national status in just four years and has turned into a memorabilia dealer's vir­tual dreamplace. 
Steelers to adjust to loss of 
Bettis 

LATROBE, Pa. -One of the intriguing questions before the Pittsburgh Steelers opened training camp was this: Who would replace Jerome Bettis, the short-yardage and goal-line specialist? 
The answer, apparently, is nobody. Or everybody. 
Former starter Duce Staley or third-down back Verron Haynes appeared to be competing for the job, but coach Bill Cowher said Wednesday the Steelers probably won't have such a specialist this season. That means starter Willie Parker might get the ball frequent­ly inside the 10-yard line, some­thing that rarely happened last season. 
"I can't say right now there's been one person like there was with Jerome. And I don't think that's a bad thing," Cowher said. "That's the way it was last year. This year's a different year." 
Thursday, August 24, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
TENNIS 
Agassi dealt tough hand in final U.S. Open 
On the women's side, unseeded Serena Williams also challenged as she attempts to come back from knee injury 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -If Andre Agassi is going to make an extended run at his final U.S. Open -as plenty of fans, tour­nament organizers and TV executives, not to mention Agassi himself, surely hope ­he's got his work cut out for him. 
Agassi's path at the last tour­nament of his career shapes up as a tough one thanks to a draw Wednesday that includes a potential second-round match against rising star Marcos Baghdatis and possible fourth-round showdown against Andy Roddick. 
"That's quite a lot to ask," said four-time U.S. Open cham­pion John McEnroe, who'll call the tournament for CBS and USA Network. "Andre's got it in him, but Baghdatis has got some game. That's going to be quite an interesting match, because Baghdatis wins people over with his smile and per­sonality -and everybody's going to be pulling for Agassi." 
Or, as U.S. Open chief Arlen Kantarian put it during the draw ceremony at U.N. head­quarters, Agassi will be "prob­ably the single greatest thing talked about at this U.S. Open." 
The 36-year-old Agassi, an eight-time Grand Slam cham­pion, faces Andrei Pavel of Romania in the first round. Pavel is a former top-20 player currently ranked 76th; Agassi has won five of their six previ­ous matches. 
If Agassi gets past that, he could face the eighth-seeded Baghdatis, a 21-year-old from 
Cyprus who was the runner-up at this year's Australian Open 
and  a  semifinalist  at  
Wimbledon.  
"If Baghdatis  is  on  and  

healthy and fit," said U.S. Davis Cup captain Patrick McEnroe, John's brother, "I think that's a very tough match for Andre to win right now." 
Two rounds later might bring another intergenerational clash -against Roddick, who'll turn 24 next week, was the 2003 U.S. Open champion and is seeded ninth. 
Hampered by a bad back, Agassi is 8-7 in 2006, never going beyond the quarterfinals at any event, and he withdrew from two tournaments this month. That's dropped his ranking to 37th, which is why he's unseeded a year after reaching the final. 

Then again, Agassi wasn't seeded in 1994 -when he won his first Open title. 
Another past U.S. Open champion and No. 1 player who's unseeded this year, Serena Williams, also was given a rough draw. She fell out of the top 100 while side­lined with a left knee injury and needed a wild card to enter the tournament. 
Her possible second-round opponent is No. 17 Daniela Hantuchova, who knocked off Williams in the Australian Open's third round in January. If Williams reaches the third round, she could face No. 16 Ana Ivanovic, who won last week's Open tuneup at Montreal and leads the U.S. Open Series standings. 
And should Williams get to the fourth round, her opponent could be No. 1 Amelie Mauresmo, the reigning Wimbledon and Australian Open champion. 

"That was the big question mark: Where was Serena going to be in the draw?" said for­mer pro and current TV ana­lyst Mary Joe Fernandez. 
Williams' older sister Venus, the 2000-01 U.S. Open winner, wound up on the opposite half of the draw as the No. 30 seed and appears to be in a rela­tively easy quarter. Bothered by a bad wrist, she hasn't played since being upset in the third round while trying to defend her Wimbledon title. 
"We haven't seen Venus at all," Fernandez said. "But we know Venus can turn it on at any given time, like she did last year at Wimbledon." 
On paper, the women's quar­terfinals could be Mauresmo vs. No. 8 Martina Hingis (the 1997 champion), No. 3 Maria Sharapova vs. No. 5 Nadia Petrova, No. 2 Justine Henin­Hardenne (the 2003 champion) vs. No. 7 Patty Schnyder, and No. 4 Elena Dementieva vs. No. 6 Svetlana Kuznetsova, in what would be a rematch of the 2004 final, won by Kuznetsova. 
The potential men's quarter­finals would be: No. 1 Roger Federer vs. No. 5 James Blake, No. 4 David Nalbandian vs. No. 7 Nikolay Davydenko, No. 2 Rafael Nadal vs. No. 6 Tommy Robredo, and Baghdatis vs. No. 3 Ivan Ljubicic. 
Federer, the two-time defending champion, starts off against Wang Yeu-tzuoo of Taiwan, then would meet the winner of an all-British first­round matchup between Tim Henman and 1997 Open run­ner-up Greg Rusedski. 
"Federer got pretty much of a dream draw," Patrick McEnroe said. "No problems for him through the first week, I would say." 
Nadal's opener could be more interesting: He drew wild-card Mark Philippoussis, the two-time major finalist with a big serve whose career has been derailed by injuries. And the third round could bring a matchup against up­and-comer Gael Monfils, who's seeded 27th and turns 20 on Sept. 1. 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, August 24, 2006 
LLWS 



Venezuela shutout in International semifinal 
Three long balls give Mexico the early lead 
Associated Press 
SOUTH WILLIAMSPORT, Pa. ­The Mexican champions from Matamoros used home runs from Jose Segoviano, Josue Barron and Roberto Guajardo in an 11-0, mercy rule rout of Barquisimeto, Venezuela, in Wednesday 's International semifinal at the Little League World Series. 

Mexico will play the winner of Thursday 's game between Kawaguchi City, Japan, and Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, in the International championship game on Saturday. 
"We had no idea it would be so easy," Mexico manager Candelario Perez said through an interpreter. 
Mexico got to Venezuela pitcher Manuel Barrios early, tagging him with l'ive runs -three earned -before he was pulled with no outs in the second. 
GET 


GET THE ALL NEW KATANA™ by Sanyo., 



$59·99 
> Choose from three great colors 
Black, Blue Sapphire or Cherry Blossom Pink 
> Ultra-thin design > Built-in Bluetooth > Built-in VGA camera > Sprint PCS Vision., enabled > Large external display 
Sprint PCS Vision Phone KATANA"' by Sanyo~ After S170 instant savings and SSO mail·in rebate. reg. S279.99 each. Requires in-store purchase and activation of a new line of service on S39.99 or higher service plan with a two-year subscriber agreement and Vision. 
OPEN SUNDAYS! 
"We had seen him throw before," Perez said. "We saw him as a very strong pitcher." 
Segoviano hit a two-run shot in the first inning and Barron added a three-run homer in the second that made the score 7-0. 
Guajardo 's three-run homer well over the center lield fence made tho score 11-0 in the top of the third. After that, Mexico only needed to shut out Venezuela for two more innings to claim a mercy rule vietory. 
Venezuela manager Domingo Carrasquel said getting behind early made it difficult for his team to recover. 
"They're sad because they thought they could go a little fur­ther," Carrasquel said through an interpreter. 
Mexico pitcher Omar Zamora struck out 11 in his four innings of work and added a triple and a single and scored twice. 
Zamora said his arm was tired, just like it had been in the Mexican tournament. But it didn't end up hurting him either time. 

OTICED 
0 Bluetooth' 

I 

Plantronics Explorer'M 320 Bluetooth headset
F R E E with any Bluetooth 
enabled phone. 

Offer ends 9/2/06. Requires purchase and activation of a Bluetooth capable phone on a S39.99 or higher service plan. Valid only at participating Sprint retailers. 
You can also choose from our great selection of 
After savings equal to the value of the phone. Requires in-store purchase and activation with a new line of service on a 2-year agreement with Vision. 
Sprint· 
..Rates exclude taxes & Sprint Fees (including USF charge of up to 2.67% that varies quarterly, cost recovery fees up to $2.83 per line, & state/local fees that vary by area). Sprint Fees are not taxes or government-required charges. Coverage not available everywhere. Available features & services will vary by phone/network. Nationwide Sprint PCS Networks reaches over 250 million people. Offers not avail­able in all markets. Additional terms & restrictions apply. Subject to credit. See store or Sprint.com details. Instant Savings: Taxes Excluded. Requires in-store purchase and acti­vation by 9/2/06. Savings cannot exceed total purchase price of phone(s). Business accounts excluded. Phones Subject to availability. Mail-in Rebate: Requires purchase & acti­vation by 9/2/06. Rebates cannot exceed purchase price. Taxes excluded. Line must be active 30 consecutive days. Allow 8 to 12 weeks for rebate. Service Plans: $200 early ter­mination fee and up to a $36 activation fee apply to each line. A deposit may be required. Partial minutes are charged as full minutes. ©2006 Sprint Nextel. All rights reserved. Sprint and the "Going Forward" logo are trademarks of Sprint Nextel. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. 
Pacific Coast Concerts 
Proodly Prtsvnu in South Bvnd fl SpvclaiiMining of Christian Musk 


AMY 


GRAnT ~ 

with thq South Bvnd Symphony I Hvxt Friday ~I 
September 1 • 8:00p.m}! 
Morris Ptrforming Arts Cvntvr · South Bvnd, Indiana 


)fiRS OF CLAY 
Matt Wtrtz 1Ltigh ttash Thursday Octobtr 19 7:30p.m. 
Morris Pvrforming Arts Cvntvr South Bvnd, Indiana 



OLIVIA tiEWTOH·JOHti 
Friday Octobtr 20 8:30p.m. 
Morris Ptrforming Arts Ctntllf Sooth Btnd, Indiana 


Rock li Roll Hall of Famv Members 
THE BEACH 


BOYS 
Sunday Hovvmbvr 12 7:30p.m. 
Morris Pllfforming Arts Cvntcn Sooth Bvnd, Indiana 
Tickets On Sale fit Morris Box Officv, Sopvr Sotlnds In Cioshvn Chargv By Phonv 574/235-9190 Or Onlin11 www.morriscvntvr.org 






(~-e·) :,. -, 
• " ..~ ...~I
: ,,.,. ·'· 
\ 
\._ I 
AlSO AVAH.ABLF. AT·
SPRINT STORES 

PREFERRED RffAILERS 
NILES,MI

MISHAWAKA
SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA STORE HOURS 
Basic Communications

Sprint Store Express 
2010 S. 11th St.

Martin's Plaza Grape Rd. at Indian Ridge Sunday ..... 12pm-5pm 
University Park Mall 
269·357·0000

2035 South Bend Ave. South of the Mall across Mon.-Fri..... 10am-8pm 
6501 Grape Rd. 
574-277-4360
574-277-7727 from McDonald's Sat.. ........ 9am-7pm 
574-243-2100 

CONVENIENT
Se habla Espaiiol 

SUNDAY HOURS 
Thursday, August 24, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Nevada installs revolutionary 'pistol' offense 
Associated Press 
RENO, Nev. -At first glance, it looks like a typical shotgun formation. 
But wait a second, that quar­terback is much closer to the center than usual. And is that a back lining up behind the QB? 
Hmm, that's weird -and very effective. 
Hot as a pistol, Nevada's new offensive scheme helped the Wolf Pack to its first bowl game since 1996 last season. 
Coach Chris Ault calls it the pistol -a hybrid of the shotgun where the quarterback lines up a few steps behind the center. It allows for two-back and single­back sets, typically with four receivers. 
And it's attracting lots of curi­
ous coaches. Ault said more 
than 85 universities, junior col­
leges and high schools have con­
tacted Nevada or visited to find 
out what it's about. 
"It is THE thing," he said. 
"And we have great confidence 
in it and so do the players." 
The winningest coach in 
school history, Ault is beginning 
the third year in his third stint 
with the Wolf Pack. 
His previous offenses, one ·dubbed "Air Wolf," were wide­
open passing attacks, often out 
of the shotgun. 
With Nevada's move from the 
Big West to the Western Athletic 
Conference in 2000, Ault decid­
ed the team had to improve its 
running game. 
"The feature of the pistol that people don't realize is so benefi­cial is the north-south running game," said Ault, adding the for­mation allows the running back to get the ball deeper behind the line than when the quarterback takes the snap from center. 
It's a variation of the spread offense coaches such as West Virginia's Rich Rodriguez and Florida's Urban Meyer have made all the rage in college football. 
But Ault-177-73-1 in 21 years of coaching, all at Nevada -said he didn't seek advice from outside coaches or experts before installing the pistol when spring camp opened last year. 
"When I first brought it up to the staff back in January 2005, they were not for it. They thought it was too much of a reach. And I really did, too," he said. "But we were a bad foot­ball team. We were 5-7 (in 2004). I just felt it would be worth the investment." 
The move paid off last season as Nevada finished 9-3, claimed a share of the WAC title and beat Central Florida 49-48 in overtime in the Hawaii Bowl. 
The Wolf Pack finished 14th nationally in total offense aver­aging 449.3 yards per game and 16th in scoring, with 34.2 points per game. They were balanced, too, rushing for 199.5 per game and passing for 249.8. 
But nothing in football is truly new. 
San Jose State coach Dick 
Tomey said the pistol is essen­tially the old single-wing that teams ran in leather-helmet days. 
Hugh Wyatt, a longtime high school football coach in the Portland, Ore., area, said he's shown film clips at clinics of Princeton using a single-wing formation in the early '60s that resembles the pistol. 
"It's not as if the fact Princeton was doing it indicates in any way he's copied this thing. It's not likely he ever had any access to the Princeton footage," said Wyatt, who was a personnel director with Philadelphia in the World Football League before joining the WFL's Portland franchise in the early 1970s. 
Finally, Booty no longer riding the pine for Southern Cal 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -John David Booty .arrived at Southern California three years ago with expectations so high many thought he would beat out Matt Leinart during the 2003 sea~ son. 
Of course, no one knew at the time that Leinart would lead the Trojans to a 37-2 record and win a Heisman Trophy dur­ing one of the .finest careers for a quarterback in NCAA history. 
Now, finally, it's Booty's turn, and he's confident he can con­tinue the tradition of winning quarterbacks established at USC by Leinart and 2002 Heisman Trophy winner Carson Palmer. 
"The .guys before me have set high standards. That's what I want to do, by winning games," said Booty, a 21-year-old red­shirt junior from Shreveport, La. 
Booty didn't say a word about the Heisman or any individual awards_ just winning. 
"As a young quarterback, my biggest goal is to have our foot­ball team win, not put it in bad situations," he said. "All I can control is what I do." 
Booty comes from a football family. His brother Josh was the LSU quarteJ,"back in 1999­00, and another brother, Abram, was a wide receiver at LSU from 1997-99 and at Valdosta State in 2000. 
Booty's father was his quar­terbacks coach in high school before being fired following his 
junior year. With that, Booty 
decided to graduate early and 
pass up his senior year to 
enroll at USC. . Booty beat out highly regard­
ed redshirt freshman Mark 
Sanchez for the starting job. In 
a show of approval, teammates 
elected Booty as one of the 
Trojans' four team captains. 
He'll get his first test Sept. 2 
when USC, ranked sixth in The 
Associated Press preseason 
poll, plays its opener at 
Arkansas. 
''I'm not worried about these 
guys at all," USC coach Pete 
Carroll said of his young quar­
terbacks. "Matt followed 
Carson and was able to get it 
going. It took Matt about four 
or five games before he got it 
rocking. 

'fNtr Wtbk\t!Ww !itM~ i'Mw, i@t%%Miidi & 
wh·stt ~bay ltv '*t%\~sd Mt *"'~ ..; 
:trv x6), •1 tt~:~::*:~v:~~:~~~:::::~~! 
This word ~m.al c:!~~=1 *:~t~;:i:='=t t:~t:t";::~;:v
1diffic:ul:ties, partly ~::owi'm@ Mt th:¥ ww:•trdrw
tsway ~ byJapan, partly owimg 
. e British Inwpector..(Jenera:I utCuWNiiti!!®.
~verpriced. ;ays: 
:his country [China} could be rwn­
•the Government provided with a .t:troke ofthe foreigner's pen, while klhe bankruptcy pure and simple, , · s, the Customs R:.~tll­year e$ceedc.;d all records by saru;~ed by the Washington ttwenue tki liquidate the who)¢ iM a Vliltif h years, 1ea:v1ngthe 
the Ctwwtrrnment; 'i'li:e but %\ nnrl a {iovetnnae!lt to 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, August 24, 2006 
ND VOLLEYBALL 





Young Irish team looks to build on last season 
ND ranked preseason No. 21 as Danielle Herndon, the squad's only senior, leads agroup of talented underclassmen 
with a large freshman class. It's direction, telling everyone to 
By KYLE CASSILY 

a really good balance of experi­stay focused. She beeame much Sports Writer 
enced players and freshmen, more vocal." and everyone seems real eager However, the true test will 
Only days before its 2006 to l~.arn and get better every­come Saturday with the season campaign begins, No. 21 Notre day. opener at home against Bowling Dame hopes it has plugged line­The freshmen will find experi­Green, the culmination of a up holes with young talent in enced faces ready to lead the spring season and three weeks order to make yet another Big pack as the lone senior, return­of early fall praetices and East and NCAA run. ing starter and captain Daniello scrimmages spent trying to
' 
~ . The Irish Herndon, will mesh as a team. From there,
~ . 
dropped nine share leadership the Irish embark upon a rough 
spots from the "We have a goal to honors with junior early season sehndule with 
American captain Adrianna matehups against several
improve and do
Volleyball Stasiuk. ranked teams. C o a c h e s Stasiuk was No. 13 Missouri and No. 6
better with a large 
Association No. freshman class. '' selected for the Santa Clara trok to the Joyce 
12 spot they 2006 All-Big East Center to partieipatn in the 
earned following preseason team Shamrock Invitational and play
Debbie Brown
last year's trip to along with fellow the Irish on Sept. 2 and Sept. 3, the NCAA .round Irish coach junior Ashley respectively. Then Notro Dame of 16 and 30-4 Tarutis after fin­will face No. 25 Kansas State at record. ishing third on the the Northern Iowa Invitational 
The 2005 season included team in kills last season with on Sept. 9, before a trip to Notre Dame's tenth Big East 325 and averaging 2.93 kills Tempe, Ariz. for the Sun Devil title in 12 years with a win over per game. Volleyball Classic thn following Louisville and ended with a 3-2 "[llerndonl hasn't had a wnekend. loss to Wisconsin in the NCAA strong leadership role in the The Irish finally head to tournament. past," Brown said. "She came in Honolulu for a two-gamn series 
"The outside people are going following a class with five play­with No. 7 Hawaii during Fall to say you're young and. can't ers. We had strong leaders in Break, before the meat of their do as well as last year," Notre that class and she learned well Big East slate comes into play. Dame head coach Debbie from watching and observing. "I think we have to play some Brown said. "But we have a Last spring she did a great job really good volleyball early in goal to improve and do better of stepping up, giving people. the season with those teams 
I 
I • 
! 

MATTHEW SMEDBERG/Observer File Photo Irish junior outside hitter Adrianna Stasiuk spikes one past two defenders In a 3-0 victory for Notre Dame over Valparaiso on Oct. 5. 

before our c-onference even a strong rivalry with them." starts," Brown said. "And once The Cardinals and Irish face into conference we'll be playing oll' Oct. 29 in Louisville, the one­Louisville. I think its good in the year anniversary of Notre fact that we have teams that Dame's first victory over its are ranked or receiving votes." newest conference foe. 
Notre Dame defeated But despite the heavy load of Louisville 3-1 in regular season this year's schedule and the dif­play last year and defeated the ficulty that comes in repeating Cardinals :~-2 to the accomplish­take the 2005 Big ments of the 2005 E a s t Irish, Brown and·
"/ think we have to
Championship. her young team But at No. 12, the play some really have already com­Cardinals received pleted the first
good volleyball 
a higher ranking step in forging a
early in the
in the 2006 pre­successful squad
, 

season polls than season. -team unity. the Irish. "Returning play­It was ers have done an

Debbie Brown
Louisville's first incredible job of 

Irish coach 
year in the Big welcoming the East, having left freshmen and Conference USA helping them get the season prior, and the new­along with whatever they need comers are already stirring -be it the volleyball aspect, or emotions. · with classes and in their 
"Honestly Louisville is very, dorms," Brown said. "How we very strong being ranked in the mesh together on the court is top," Brown said. "I know that very important." we're developing as a team and they've been in the conference Contact Kyle Cassily at one year, but we're developing kcassily@nd.edu 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS '\VANTED 

BUYING & TRADING 
ALL SEASONS ALL GAMES & LOCATIONS 

18 YEARS CONFIDENTIAL SERVICE 
CASH PAID TODAY 
Preferred Tickets 234-5650 

--------~-------------~ 
Thursday, August 24, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 



Join us as our brothers in 

Holy Cross, celebrate their 
profession ofperpetual vows and consecrates themselves to Christ forever. 

Saturday, August 26, 2006 2:30p.m. at Sacred Heart Basilica 

Peter M. McCormick, C.S.C. 

~. 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, August 24, 2006 
Golf 
continued from page 28 
grabs," Kubinski said. 
Earlier this week, !shan and Sandman traveled to Hazeltine National Golf Club in Chaska, Minn. to compete 
in the U.S. Championship. Both players struggled in 
the  first  of  
two  stroke  
play  rounds,  
and  neither  

advanced to match play. Sandman shot an 81 Monday but came back to fire a 75 in Tuesday's sec­ond round. 
"Josh made 
I s b a n entered the tournament with realistic expectations of finishing high on the leaderboard but instead 
missed  the  
cut  by  13  
strokes.  

The seniors do not, how­ever. have 
Amateur 

goal" for his team is to fin­ish in the national top 25. 
lie will  not.  however,  go  
as  far  as to pr edict such  an  
outcome.  

"With such a young team. I can't have [the top 251 as my expectation," he said. "But it's definitely some­thing we want to do every 
year." 

"With such a young team, I can't have [the top 25] as my expectation. But it's definitely something we want to do every year." 
Jim Kubinski Irish head coach 
a very good comeback," Kubinski said. 
!shan, meanwhile, played tentatively in the first round before playing all of the second with the stomach flu -"the worst round [lsban] has played in many, many years," Kubinski said. 

He said he also hopes to win the Big East title for the fourth con­secutive year. 
The team features four fresh­men, Olavo Batista Filho, Doug Fortner, 
Kyle Willis and Carl Santos­Ocampo, who represent the largest class on a team that also has one sophomore, three juniors and three sen­iors. 
The Irish will begin their season at the Gopher Invitational in Wayzata, 
"/ am very excited to have all ofthe freshmen. But, as a coach, my job isn't too easy right now. " 
Jim Kubinski Irish head coach 
Minn. Sept. 16. 
Between now and t h e n , Kubinski 
will  be  
forced  to  
set  his  

five-man rotation. 
"I am VPry excit­ed to havn all of the 
much time to dwell on their freshmen," he said. "But, as showings at the U.S. a coach, my job isn't too Amateur. easy right now." 
''I'm sure they will both be very excited to get the sea­son started," Kubinski said. Contact Fran Tolan at 
Kubinski said a "good ftolan@nd.edu 
THE FUTURE 


Notre Dame backup quarterbacks freshman Demetrius Jones, left, freshman Zach Frazer, cen­ter, and sophomore Evan Sharpley prepare for a drill during practice Wednesday. 



WELCOME BACK STUDENTS AND FACULTY 
ANYONE WITH A STUDENT OR FACULTV ID WILL RECEIVE HALF OFF REGULAR PRICED TICKETS FOR THE REMAINING HOME GAMES 
AUGUST 28 VS AUGUST 29 VS AUGUST 30 VS AUGUST 31 VS 

DAYTON DRAGONS  7:00PM  
DAYTON DRAGONS (DH)  6:00PM  
DAYTON DRAGONS  7:00PM  
DAYTON DRAGONS  7:00 PM  

SEPTEMBER 3 VS FORT WAYNE WIZARDS  1:30PM  
SEPTEMBER 4 VS FORT WAYNE WIZARDS  1:30 PM  
For Tickets Call 235-9988  


High ~chool Ambassadors: visit your high school during Fall or Spring break and spread the word about ND; contact hsa@nd.edu




EA6ER TO 
e-lriSh: write articles about your experience at Notre Dame for prospective students; contact mcawley@nd.edu 
Phone Center: welcome admitted students and answer questions;

VOLUNTEER? 
contact morourk1 @nd.edu 
~16N UP WITH THE ADMI~~ION~ OffiCE 
~tudent Hospitality Program: host admitted students overnight or&LOOK fOR U~ AT AGIVITIE~ NI6HT during the day; contact hosting@nd.edu 
-· 
Thursday, August 24, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
Violations 
continued from page 28 
who the player was and what station they were watching. 
Such action violates NCAA bylaw 12.5.3, which states, "The student-athlete shall not make any endorsement, expressed or implied, of any commercial product or serv­ice." 
The declaration of ineligibili­ty did not affect any potential practice time for any of the players. Had their respective teams had a game during their brief ineligibility, however, they would have been prohibited from participating. 
Karwoski said he agreed with Friday when multiple media the NCAA's reasoning and that outlets, including The Observer, the situation would have been contacted Notre Dame compli­avoided had ance officials WSBT or any after running of the athletes back Darius
"Our mantra here is, ask
asked compli­Walker filmed 
ance before before you act. That helps a "bump" for filming the us out quite a bit., a WSBT show "bumps." during the "If someone post-practice
Mike Karwoski 
from the sta­interview ses­

associate athletic director 
tion or the sion the day show would Compliance before. have called Notre Dame Because me, I certain­Walker's pro­ly would have motional spot looked into it. ... And we prob­did not air, Notre Dame did not ably would have come to the have to rule him ineligible. same conclusion." In fact, Notre Dame declared 
The athletic department Zbikowski ineligible despite the became aware of the violations fact that WBST has not been able to provide Notre Dame with the tape of the show that Zbikowski appeared on, only supplying the athletic depart­ment with the unedited footage from his appearance, which included bloopers of Zbikowski trying to film the "bump." 
In light of the situation, Weis addressed media issues with the players during a pre-sched­uled team meeting Monday night. 
Karwoski said the best way to avoid such encounters is sim­ple. 
"Our mantra here is, ask before you act," he said. "That helps us out quite a bit." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler@nd.edu 



page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, August 24, 2006 
"We've been practicing on year later, the team's stroke tournament wins. thanks to a come-from-behind our own [andl we're very average The squad victory at the rain-shortened

King 

excited for the start of the fell from then made Jeannine McHaney continued from page 28 season," she said. 323.59 to "We've been practicing on the NCAA Invitational/Central Regional Veltri echoed those senti­316.29 -our own, /and] we're very regional tour­Preview in Lubbock, Texas. coach will have trust in the ments. sixth best nament that The team continued its suc­
excited for the start ofthe
system, saying she wanted "They're ready to go. in school spring -the cess in the fall of 2005, post­"someone that believes in this They're excited about the history at season. l'irst of two ing the school's best-ever place and this team." season," she said. "They've the time. consecutive scoring average of 301.71. Diaz-Calderon said she all played impressive summer The King spring The low scores led to four
Alejandra Diaz-Calderon 
believes the team can over­seasons." era took appearances. top-fours in the team's first
Irish junior 
come any distraction from the King coached the tl~am orr in the Notre Dame five tournaments. coaching change and get since the fall of 2001. In her fall of made its first ready for its season-opening first year, the team earned 2003, when the Irish matched appearance in Golfstat.com's Contact Ken Fowler at tournament Sept. 10. three top-four finishos. A a school n~eord with three top-25 in Oetobor 2004 kfowler@nd.edu 
freshman, en route to win­sive MVI' Erika Bohn took ning national rookie of the her .69 goals against avor­


Goalie 

year honors as an NSCAA age with her when tho threo­continued from page 28 second-team All-American. time Academic AII-Amorican 
First-team Big East junior graduated. He said the offense will con­forward Amanda Cinalli Though senior Nikki tinue to be the strength of a returns to continue setting Westfall has the most experi­team searching for its sec­up Hanks -hoping to ence, an injury will keep her ond national title in three improve upon her 17 assists out for several weeks as 5­years. (fifth nationally) while creat­foot-9 junior Lauren Karas 
"When you lose a player ing opportunities of her own. and rangy 5-foot-1 0 fresh­like [Thorlakson] you have to "[Amanda! has always man Kelsey Lysander battle find out who's going to carry been good for us, scoring 10 for the starting spot in goal. that load," to 15 goals Unless one separates herself Waldrum a season, " before Notre Dame's Aug. 26 said. "We're Waldrum opener against Iowa State, still going to said. "So Waldrum most likely will be a very "We don't really care as she's going wait to see both in game good team to be called action.
long as there aren't any
offensively. on to add to Senior defender captain We're going goals in our nets and we that a little Kim Lorenzen is glad there to have a lot score more than they do. " bit." are two quality options of weapons. Despite behind her and has no I think we'll N o t r e qualms about playing in
Kim Lorenzen
have enough Dame's front of someone new. 
ways to Irish defender ability to "The fact that we don't 
score goals attack really know who's going to 
without opposing be the starting keeper is a 
her." n e t s , good thing in some ways," 
Sophomore Waldrum Lorenzen said. "It means striker Kerri Hanks stormed says the biggest question they're all competing for the national soccer scene mark for the 2006 Irish will time. I'm not suro it's going last season with a 71-point be defending their own. to be different." (28 goal, 15 assist) outburst Notre Dame must replace a Whoever earns the nod will that led the Irish in scoring goalie for the first time since have a solid defense protoct­and marked the fourth best 2002 after four-year starter ing her from a unit that held output ever for a Division I and '04 College Cup dnfen-opponents to 54 shots on 
goal in 25 garnns. The flat­back four defensn is led in the centor by Lorenzon, a four-year starter and Notre Da m e ' s l'i r s t s o Io <~ a p t a i n sinco 19gg. 
Preseason Big Fast Defensive Player of the Ynar senior d cd'end e r Christi n Shaner hnlps fortify the dnl'ense along with defen­sive-minded senior midl'ield­er Jill Krivaeek, who was the defensivo MVP of the 2005 Big East Tournament and has never seen the Irish out­shot in her career. 
Though Notro Damn was known for its explosivn I offense last year. Lorenzen Irish senior midfielder Jen Buczkowski moves upfield Sept. 4, said the defnnsivn unit does­2005 against Florida. Buczkowski returns to Notre Dame's mid­n't play for press, but for field this year. results. 
"We don't rnally earn as long as thorn aren't any Under-20 Women's World The following weekend, the goals in our nets and we Championship. Irish host USC and No. 9 score more than they do," "The key is how quickly we Santa Clara in the Inn at St. Lorenzen said. can integrate them back in Mary's Classic. 
As Krivacek with the "We normally open up on a fronts the t e a m , " Friday night at home, this
"Big East is important 
Irish defense, Waldrum time we're opening Saturday 2 0 0 5 and everything, but at said. "They'll at 1 p.m.," Waldrum said. 1-Iflrmann the end of the day, come be coming in "The challenge for us will be Trophy l'inal­late to some early on. If we can get
tournament time we
ist senior classes so through a couple of big midfielder should be national they have games early in the season J e n champions, and that's some catch­that's going to be a big test Buczkowski ing up to do for us."
the mindset that we
directs the there and According to Lorenzen, Irish buildup. have." they haven't those tests results shouldn't Together with been practic­be graded after those games, sophomoro ing with us. but by who's left standing at
Kim Lorenzen 
Brittany Bock Healistically the end of the year.
Irish defender 
(2005 fresh­it may be a "[The national champi­man All-week until onship] is our ultimate goal," American) and freshman after their return until she said. "Big East is impor­Courtney Hosen, who has they're ready to step in for tant and everything, but at impressed early, Waldrum us." the end of the day, come expects the group to be "one Meanwhile, the Irish face a tournament time we should of better midfields in the challenging early season be national champions, and country." schedule that includes that's the mindset that we 

TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer The Irish will be without Saturday's 1 p.m. home have." Irish senior captain Kim Lorenzen kicks the ball upfield against Bock and defender Carrie opener against Iowa State Florida Sept. 4, 2005. Lorenzen will anchor the Notre Dame Dew until Sept. 4 as they followed by a noon game at Contact Tim Dougherty at defense this year. play for the US team at the Ole Miss the very next day. tdougher@nd.edu
' 
' 
' 
• 
~ 
L ' 
Thursday, August 24, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
ALEC WHITE

JOCULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM

CROISSANTWORLD 

"/ E-P\H} 1-~f' !>,A,...(. 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 36 Baby 64 In _ (where kangaroo's found)
1 Op-ed piece nickname for 65 Govt. disaster 
6 "Huh?" mom's pouch? 
relief org. 10 Something to 39 Ditch 66 Mowed path haggle over 40 Four for the road 67 Tugboat sound 14 India's first P.M. 41 Old Italian sa Opening for money Vegas
15 Plotter in a play 42 How a high-69 Home of the 
16 Call from the pitched weasel Lyndon B. 
nursery 
goes? Johnson Space 17 No longer carry Center
44 SqualidFolgers or 45 Uranus' domain Maxwell House? 

DOWN46 Address starting 20 "Uncle Tom's 1 Over http://Cabin" girl 2 Wait on47 Provider of the 21 Aid and 

first bone 3 Underwater 22 Giving off light transplant? sandbank 49 Varieties 4 Dadaist Jean 
23 X out 51 Rebuttal to "No, 5 Seat of ancient 
25 Soup base 
Mayan 27 Prisoner's tally civilizationyou're not" 
55 Eyed food 

on a cell wall 6 Lois, to Hi 58 Cogitate, with 
29 -Ia-Ia 7 Sword handles 
-uon" 8 Time of one's 
30 Belly muscles so Overmodest 
life 32 Corset stiffener 43 Andean capital 54 Old stories 33 True 61 Oasis store? 
9 Jumps on the 33 Skiers' paradise 44 Life jacket 55 "Hey, over here!"
ice 48 Turned blue, I
34 "Hey, over

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PU-:-Zr.Z::-tL-:-ET:"' 10 Great big kiss maybe 56 Buckeye State 
here!" ~*+.:i-1 11 Aftermath 49 Not working 57 Emerald City35 Cosby/Gulp TV visitor50 Dolt 52 Mountaineer's ~:+:::8 12 "So be it" series 59 Incubate 37 _ pro nobis 
~~~]l~··~W.m~]~1l1.... 13 Result of hair­
~ splitting? tool 62 Aviv 
38 Simoleons 

..;;+::-fl!~*.+;-~ 18 What a 53 View in an 63 Neighbor of hypnotist may 40 Freeway exits angiogram Norw. 
tell you to do 
19 A lot of, slangily For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 24 Outer limits credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
26 City in a classic crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
~~~~::i-1 railroad name Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
28 Safeguard past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
-::+.::i-~-;;,+:::-l 30 Similar (to) 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young ........_.._-'-..... 31 Shipping hazard solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
HENRI ARNOLD 


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
Congratulations, J.D.
letter to each square, 
He started out to form four ordinary words. 

as a teller 
LAMBY 

I rJ I I 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
SURNP 
j 
1 


ri I I 
SPYNAP j 

THi: BANK MANAGi:R
rJ r I I 5-3 
www.jumble.com R05i: TO THi: TOP Bi:C.AU5i: Hi: WAS--­I GEBBUD 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
1 
rJ 
Answer: 

ON THE rnrI I Jrn 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: GUIDE JUROR BARREL REALTY Yesterday's 
Answer: What the henpecked king considered his wife­THE RULER RULER 
EUGENIA LAST 



HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kel Mitchell, 27; Claudia Schiffer, 35; Tim Burton, 47; Elvis Costello, 51 
Happy Birthday: You are so changeable this year that no one will know exactly how to deal with you or what to expect. Don't let this alarm you. Let loose and have some fun. Think about all the ideas you have and things you want to do and begin the process of getting things off the ground. Your numbers are 2, 5, 22,26,39,47 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You may have to pick up the slack if a colleague is dragging his or her feet. Don't feel bad--this person will do the same for you. A partnership looks promising. *** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You may find it difficult to keep your emotions in check. Don't let minor aggravations tum into major concerns. Be mature, listen and observe. Think before you act. * * * GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Everything will appear to be going fine, but beware of someone who may be withholding information. Make physical as well as mental improvements today. An enlightening class or a shopping spree could help.*** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Partnerships will take a tum. Someone from your past may confuse you. Travel and learning are your areas ofsuccess. Information received via e-mail or telephone may alter your future.** • * LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't let things get you down. The more independent you are, the better you will do and the more respect you will gain. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): An opportunity will present itself to find out information that will lead you in the right direction. By taking an unusual approach to something you have done well in the past, you will discover a completely new outlet. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You have so much going for you, so stop procrastinating and take a chance. A partnership will affect the outcome of something you pursue. A creative idea will take shape if you give it a little thought. ••• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Stop yourself before you overanalyze what is going on. Things are not likely to be as they appear. You may deceive yourself into thinking someone is doing you an injustice but it probably won't be the case. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Your determination will give you the drive to finish what you set out to do today. Your curiosity will get the better ofyou, but as long as you don't stray too far off your original plans, it won't cause a setback.*** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You are always taking care of everyone else's needs; try to please yourself for a change. If someone is unhappy with your decisions, you may want to reevaluate your relationship.***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't let your emotions lead you down the wrong road today. Lots of good results will take place if you compromise and avoid unnecessary debates. * * PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A lot can change in a day, and today is one that can bring favorable results. Partnerships and creative pursuits look good. A love connection is looking positive. **** 
Birthday Baby: You have a way about you that draws people to your side. You're responsible and stable yet fun-loving. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 



PORTS
Thursday, August 24, 2006 
page 28 
NO ATHLETICS 

Three athletes reinstated 
NCAA calls violations 'secondary;' Zbikowski, Zeller, McAlarney will receive no penalty 
By KEN FOWLER -Sports Editor 
The NCAA reinstated senior strong safety and defensive captain Tom Zbikowski and two men's basketball players after Notre Dame briefly declared them ineligible for their participation in promo­tional television spots, Associate Athletic Director for Compliance Mike Karwoski said Wednesday. 
Karwoski said the NCAA informed him in a phone call around 5 p.m. Wednesday they decided that three players committed "secondary viola­tions" -violations without intent -for their "implied endorsement" of a local televi­sion show. 
The NCAA then told him there would be no penalties, sanctions or eligibility conse­quences for the spots featuring Zbikowski, sophomore forward Luke Zeller and sophomore guard Kyle McAlarney. 
"As far as they are con­cerned, the matter is closed and there would be no penal­ties involved," Karwoski said. 
In a statement e-mailed to the media Wednesday night, Irish coach Charlie Weis expressed gratitude to the NCAA for the quick manner in which the situation was resolved. 
"I appreciate the fact this was handled in an expeditious manner by the NCAA as well as our compliance and sports information departments," the statement read. ''I'm glad we have a resolution to this situa­tion and I look forward to con­tinuing our preparation for Georgia Tech." 
Notre Dame had sent a letter to the NCAA compliance office in Indianapolis Tuesday after­noon at once declaring Zbikowski, Zeller and McAlarney ineligible and requesting their reinstatement. 
The trio's problem stemmed from separate appearances on the sports talk show "Sports Dogz" that airs on WSBT-TV in South Bend. During their appearances, the players filmed "bumps" -advertise­ments for the show, during the show, that informed viewers 
see VIOLATIONS/page 25 


MEN'S GOLF 

Kubinski optitnistic for season 
Irish coach praises senior leadership, sets lofty temn goals 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
With Notre Dame's line­up still uncertain, Irish head eoach Jim Kubinski said he has set high goals for the upcoming season. 
Of the five players who will travel to tourna­ments, Kubinski said he has only decided on two so far. Nine players will compete for the three remaining spots on Notre Dame's traveling squad. 
Senior Cole Is ban and sophomore Josh Sandman are penciled in the top two spots, he said. 
"Other than that, it's pretty much up for 
see GOLFIpage 24 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

King not retained after 5 years as head coach 
Athletic department looks for replacement as fall season nears 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
There will be a new Irish leader this fall. 
Notre Dame declined to renew the contract of head coach Debby King after five years, and a search for her replacement is underway, Assistant Sports Information Director Sean Carroll con­firmed to The Observer Wednesday. 
Carroll declined to comment on specific reasons behind the move, directing questions to Assistant Athletic Director Jim Fraleigh. 
The Observer was unable to contact Fraleigh Wednesday night. 
Assistant coach Kyle Veltri is still with the team, which begins official practice Aug. 
29. Veltri declined to com­ment on the coaching situa­tion. 
"I think the main thing we're focusing on right now is to maintain the enthusiasm and be as confident as we can be," she said. 
Junior golfer Alejandra Diaz-Calderon also declined to comment on the specific circumstances, saying she had not received official word of the athletic department's decision. 
"The administration hasn't told the team any details why Coach King wasn't returned," Diaz-Calderon said. 
She said she, senior Noriko Nakazaki and sophomore Lisa Maunu -three of the team's returning players -would be involved in the interview process of a new coach. 
She said she hoped the new 
see KING/page 26 

ND WoMEN's SoccER 

New-look ND vies for title 
Returning, rookie players work to replace Thorlakson, Bohn 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
After losing its NCAA semi­finals mateh to follow Congregation of Holy Cross institution Portland 3-1, the Irish again look up to l'ind the Pilots atop the National Soceer Coaehos Assoeiation of Ameriea preseason stand­ings. 
Il' the NSCAA No. 5 Irish are to earn that spot at sea­son's end, they must find new feet to fill the boots or last season's IIermann Trophy runner-up Katie Thorlakson. Fortunately for the Irish, head coach Handy Waldrum, now in his eighth season, does not expect last year's 22-3 squad -which led the nation with 4.4 goals per game -to miss a step. 
see GOALIE/page 26 


TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer Irish sophomore forward Kerrl Hanks takes a shot against DePaul Sept. 16, 2005. Hanks returns to lead the Notre Dame attack. 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
MLB

LITTLE LEAGUE 
MLB 
loLl 


u 

Redshirt junior quar-
Mexico 11
Nevada coach Chris

1--
z Defending Big East 
Oakland 6 
San Francisco 7 
Ault installs revolution-

Venezuela 0 
terback John David
champion Irish look to 
Arizona 6
Toronto 0 
~ 

Booty may finally get a 
Eliezer Alfonso
ary pistol offense for 

The Mexicans hit 
Estaban Loaiza threw
m make a deep run into 
knocked in the ~o­

chance to start for 
three home runs to
2006 season. 

a complete-game four-
NCAAs this year. 
?he.ad run in the eig th
c:c 

Southern Cal. 
advance to the 
hitter for the A's. 
mnmg.

tc 
International Final. 
en 
page 16
page 22 
page 21 

page 20
page 21 

page 17 




