.r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------~--~------~~ 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
CLAP presents wage report to administrators 
Write-up suggests the University implement a minimum $12.10 per hour pay for its workers 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
A"istant News Editor 
Four mmnbors of tho Campus Labor Action Project (CLAP) dnsmndml upon tho Main Building Wndnnsday at I p.m. to present Notm Damn ollkials with a rnport on the living wage, which includes tlw dnmand that University l'rosident Fathnr John Jenkins publidy meognizn the issue. 
CI.AI' load organizer Kamaria Porter, alumni coordinator Aaron KrPider. worker outreach coordi­nator Jon Murphy and senior mnmher Guadalupe Conwz prn­snntnd tlw mport and individual letters to Jenkins, Provost Tom Burish, Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves and Vic-e 
Mark Poorman, among a handful of other University officials with ollic1~s in the Main Building. 
"We want to gain allies. This is an issue that touches us all," said Kamaria Porter, lead organiznr of CLAP. 
l'ortnr said tho 11-page report, which includns a wide variety of information from nconomic statis­ties and charts to personal inter­views with campus nrnployees, was a work long in progress. 
see CLAPIpage 8 


STUDENT SENATE 
Academic freedom divides group 
Course information system proposal passes 
By MADDIE HANNA 
A'i.,nciatc News Ediwr 
In a two-hour saga of a Student Senate rnnnting bro­knn by agnnda inv1•r·sions and snnmingly constant motions to anwnd, snnators passed two substantial n~solutions WPdrwsday. 
But thn aux of tlw nwoting, not surprisingly, was a dis­russion on aeadnmk frnndom -a n~eurrPnt topic during the past snveral wnoks of' Senatn nHwtings that carne to lwad Wedrwsday when a res­olution prnsented on tlw sub­jel't was hotly dnhatnd and ult.irnatnly sent b;u:k to com­mitten for revisions. 
~­

University Affairs commit­tee chair Matt Walsh described the Hesolution Supporting Diversity in Programming and Academic and Intellectual freedom at Notre Dame as "the product of what our committee kind of considers a middle ground." 
"As a Student Senate, I think it's our responsibility to discuss this," Walsh said. 
The resolution, which draws upon thn 1970 Land 0' Lakes Agreement, the Open Speaker Policy outlined in du Lae and the Notre Dame Mission Statement. asks the University to "encourage and 
see SENATE/page 4 


SMC-TVto broadcast after break 
By MOLLY LAMPING 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's students tuning in to channel l.hron upon returning from spring lm~ak will finally sen tlw fruit or a seed planted in spring of 2004 -tlw Collngn's very own TV station. 
Originally slated to go on tlw air at the beginning of tlw senws­ter, SMC-TV's kid-ofT has been antidpated by students for a few months. 
"I knew it was coming IWnntual­Iy, but I thought it would be horn sooner," freshman Knlly Casior said. 
sec TV/page 4 

--~ -=....::...~-____:::_:_:=.::____=~=-=--=========================--=~·:-::-:~-_:--::~=-=-==--=-=-=--=-=======-----=--.:___~-========--_:=:=========== 

Forum_ invites external vie-wpoints 

Father James Heft, left, and Jonathan Knight pause during the Faculty Senate Forum on Academic Freedom Wednesday. 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
Assistant News Ediwr 
Two voices from outside the University added to the ongoing campus-wide discussion on aca­demic freedom and Catholic character Wednesday during the Faculty Senate's Forum on Academic Freedom. 
Jonathan Knight, director of the Program in Academic Freedom and Tenure for the Amorican Association of University Professors IAAUPI, and Father James lleft, Chancellor of the University of Dayton, provided their perspec­tives on the nature of' academic freedom at a Catholic university. But both avoided commenting 
see FACULTY/page 6 


SMC speaker explores Catholicis1n, sexuality 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
Saint Mary's Editor 

Speaking in the Saint Mary's Student Center Wednesday as part of the Theology on Fire series, religious studies pro­fessor Phyllis Kaminski said the Catholic Chureh values sex as a powerful expression of' love in the context or a com­mitted relationship. 
"Sex is good," Kaminski said in her lecture titled "Catholic Women and Snxuality: Passion, Power and Prudence." "Sex is also pow­erful so we have to be careful -not so much out of fear of pregnancy, violnnen or AIDS or STDs, but bneausn sox is holy." 
She said the Catholie tradi­tion nmphasizns chastity as a virtun and practiee. Chastity is not thn same thing as absti­nence, she said. 
"Chastity ealls us to intn­grato our sexual desires and needs into all of our life in way that valtws, cstnnms, and respeets our own dignity and that of otlwrs," Kaminski said. 
While thn Church Magnstnriurn has made progrnss daril'ying its teach­ing on soxualily through doeu­
sec FIRE/page 4 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, March 9, 2006 

INSIDE COLUMN 

The 'Oh crap' tnoments 
I've heard a lot of stupid things in my life. Lately, I've begun to lose my sense of what is intelligent -to the point that when my friend thought it would be a good idea to patent a rotat­ing toilet seat, I Joe Piarulli didn't tell him he was an idiot. 
News
My friends 

Production
and I have 

Editor
started watch­ing "Elimidate" on the WB at 1 a.m. Let me repeat that. "Elimidate," 1 a.m., WB. 
I don't think I want cable in my dorm room next year. It hurts my head. 
We all do stupid things. We've been caught dancing by ourselves when no music was on. We've grossly exaggerated stories about a party right in front of someone who was there. What do you tell people when something like that happens? 
"Oh, sorry, I'm just completely out of my mind." 
It could be worse. In fact, it has been much worse. See, some things don't seem like stupid things to say unless they are said at exactly the wrong moment. This is the part where I offer shameless examples. The following are all completely true, and presented in chronologi­cal order for my convenience. 
One seemingly innocent day in high school, I was walking with my friend to lunch. We were late, and were just about the only people in the courtyard. I'm not entirely sure of what I said over the course of that conversation, but I remembEir what she said in response: "That's retarded." The only other person within 100 yards of us? That's right -a mentally challenged individual. 
On graduation day of high school, my friend sat next to a guy who had his head shaved. Our class had more than 420 kids, so she didn't know him particularly well. The ensuing conversation went roughly as follows: 
"I think it's really stupid that you shaved your head for graduation," she said. 
"Actually, I have cancer," he said. 
"That's not funny. You shouldn't joke about that. My uncle had can­cer," she responded. 
Of course, he actually had cancer. Ouch. Throw the flag-that's a personal foul. 
The most recent of what I call the "Oh crap," moments took place in North Dining Hall a few weeks ago. My friends had spent the previous night watching the popular "Donnie Darko," and were in the habit of repeating the quote, "Go back to China b--." 
Well, apparently they were not aware that people of Chinese line­age also eat in North Dining Hall. 
I doubt that it's necessary to tell other stories involving the phrases, "That's gay," and "Are you blind?" I think you get the idea. 
Now I'm not telling you to watch what you say. I'm not even telling you to be more sensitive about the feelings of others. I'm just telling you that if you go on "Elimidate," I'll probably see you on there, because I watch that show. Those people are almost as ridiculous as the people who read the Inside Column. 
Oh crap. 

Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: ARE YOU HAPPY THE LIBRARY IS STAYING OPEN 24 HOURS THIS WEEK? 








Josh Rasmussen Lucrecia Garcia-lommi 
grad student grad student off-campus off-campus 
"Yes, because "No, because it's "It doesn't "Yes, because it 'The library "Sure -I miss then you can just more books really affect me, helps me should satisfy the donuts too. " have sleepovers for me to because I don't procrastinate." students' 
Amy Vereecke 
sophomore Welsh Family 
Dan Mcinnis 
sophomore Sarin 

Kevin Blinn 
senior Knott 
Caitlin Dube 
freshman PE 

with all your reshelve. " study very friends." much." 

Go fly a kite? Not in Pakistan 
ISLAMABAD -Flying a kite in Pakistan is a dan­gerous pastime. 
Already it's banned for all but 15 days of the year but a provincial min­ister warned kite-flyers this week that any who cause injury or death with string made from metal or coated with glass could be tried under anti-terrorism laws. 
The Punjabi chief min­ister's unprecedented threat came just ahead of the start of an annual kite-flying festival in the provincial capital, 
TODAY 
a:: 
Lahore, on Sunday. 

Kite-flying in Pakistan and neighbouring India often involves aerial duels in which partici­pants try to bring down each other's kites using string coated in a sticky paste of ground-up glass or metal. 
Cuban on hunger strike for Internet access 
HAVANA -A Cuban dissident who has been on a hunger strike for 36 days to demand unfet­tered Internet access is refusing medication and his health is deteriorating rapidly, fellow dissidents ·said on Wednesday. 
Guillermo Farinas, a 
41-year-old psychologist, 
went on a hunger strike 
on January 31 to press 
Cuba's Communist 
authorities to respect his 
right to freedom of infor­
mation and allow him 
Internet access, which is 
controlled by the govern­
ment. 

Farinas was moved to a 
hospital in his hometown 
of Santa Clara, in central 
Cuba, where he is being 
kept on an IV drip. 

Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
1.1.1 :::1: 
!;: 
1.1.1 
3: 
..... 
c:c 
CJ 


0 

HIGH 60 HIGH 44
..... 

LOW 50 LOW 27 

52 50 

63 
45 

desires, but I have no idea what those are ... so I don't really have an 
opinion.,, 
IN BRIEF 

The film "Pride and Prejudice" will be shown at 7 and 10 p.m. today and Friday in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Call 1-2800 for tickets. 
Joyce Majiwa, chairperson of the International Federation of Women Lawyers, Kenya Chapter, will speak at Saint Mary's today at 5 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. Her lecture is titled "Women and Leadership in Times of Change: A Personal Rellect­ion." 
Musical virtuosos Edgar Meyer and Mike Marshall will play acoustic bluegrass in the Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center today at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are $15 for students and $31 for faculty and staff. 
The conference "Health Care in an Increasingly Health-Obsessed Culture" will begin today at 6 p.m. in McKenna Hall and will run through Saturday. The confer­ence will bring together undergraduate students from Notre Dame and other institu­tions with medical profession­als to -discuss the complexities of modern medicine. 
The women's tennis team will face Western Michigan at 
3:30 p.m. Friday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The men's lacrosse team will face North Carolina Saturday at 1 p.m. in the Loftus Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

Thursday, March 9, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Library hours extended to accotnodate tnidtertns w-eek 
Students take advantage of Hesburgh Library's 24-hour schedule spurred by fan. 25 Student Senate resolution 
By BECKY HOGAN 
News Writer 
This wnok, studnnts who study at llnsburgh Library do not havP to l'aee a doal'oning alarm warning thorn to abandon tlwi r stud ins by 2 a.m. With many midtnrms administnred prior to spring brnak. the library has rPmairwd opnn for 24 hours sim~n March 5 and will rontinun to do so until Mareh 
II. 
Nignl Buttnrwirk, dirnetor of llsnr Snrviens at llnsburgh Library, said Stud«~nt Snnatn passml a .Jan. 25 rnsolution to incrnas«l library hours, making a spneilk rnqunst to havn the Ii h rary OIH' n for twnn ty-four hours during tlw wonk of rnidtnrrns. Tlw resolution also rPqunsted the library rnmain opnn l'or 24 hours from Sunday at H a.m. through 2 p.m. Thursday. 
"W«l eould aeeept that the nx<un wonk before spring break would rnsult in signilkant use Iof thn library! nspneially during pnak hours, but wn havn no evi­dnnen that this would be the easn as a ynar long thing," Buttnrwiek said. "I think wn will hn looking to make a similar arrangnnwnt lnnxt ynarl in the autumn and thnn again in thn spring Ifor thn week or midterms!." 
The library staff will look at the ligums of studnnts who have attnndml the library this week to assess whether there is a dmnand for study spaee in the library af'tnr its regular hours. 
Snnior Erin Condon, who manages thn «:omputer elustnrs in llesburgh Library, said there is typically not as mueh traffic in the library after 2 a.m. dur­ing this unollkial midterm week as compared to the week lead­ing up to linals. 
Carroll snnator .lim Graen said the rnsolution was crnated to inernase library hours in gener­al. 
"!\ lot of our peer institutions have their libraries open longer than ours," he said. 
Grace, who worked on the resolution with Welsh Family snnator Annie Duna, said thnre is a laek of "quint study spaee" on campus. 
"Many dorm study rooms are bning eonvnrted into quads, I.aFortunn is morn or a soeial 
spot an~ Co-M.o i~. u~ual.ly paeked, hn said. I live In Carroll, so I spend a lot of time at the library. When the bells go off at 2 a.m., I never feel like I have gotten enough work done." 
Sophomore Miehell Chresfield made use of extended hours at thn library snveral times this week while studying for midterms. 
"It would be very helpful [if thn hours were increasnd I and I think they shouldn't use those horns," Chresfield said. 
Butterwiek said inernasing library hours on a permanent basis -as the resolution 

requnsts -is not feasible at present due to the limited num­ber of staff and the extra eosts that would result from sueh a change. 
"It does cost money to keep the library open and it is <wnn more problematic to have the staff to cover llonger hours]," he said. 
To aeeommodate longer study hours this wnek, members of the library staff have been rnquired to work overtime or work shifts they would not nor­mally work, Butterwiek said. 
Butterwiek said there is no alternative to keeping all noors of the library open because of the physical layout of thn build­ing. But as a long-tnrm consid­eration, remodeling the first and second noors or the library would allow the library staff to keep one part of the library open for study, he said. This would allow the library to aceommodate students who need to study past 2 a.m. with­out nending to open the nntirn library. 
Grace intnnds to rnrnain per­sistent with tho goals of thn rns­olution. 
"We are going to stay in touch with the library and kenp push­ing lthn resolution!." he said. "We're delinitnly opnn to eom­promisn on the time." 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 9, 2006 
Notre Datne to host National Bioethics Conference 
By EMMA DRISCOLL News Writer 

The National Undergraduate Bioethics Conference -started nine years ago by a group of Notre Dame students -will return to the home of its origina­tors today through Saturday in McKenna Ilall. 
Entitled "Health Care in an Increasingly Health-Obsessed Culture," this year's conference will feature speakers in the field of bioethics from across the coun­try. Lectures, panels and discus­sions about various topics in the field of bioethics will focus on a "consideration of how health­obsessed the country has been 
Senate 
continued from page 1 

facilitate a wide-range of pro­gramming in order to allow for all students to express their own deeply held views." 
While "The Vagina Monologues" and Gay and Lesbian Film Screenings are only mentioned by name once in the resolution -a decision intended to keep the resolu­tion broad and far-reaching, Walsh said -the final clause voices strong support for con­troversial campus program­ming. 
"Therefore be it further resolved that the University never compromise itself by disallowing certain student programming, even program­ming which may disagree or be perceived to disagree with elements of Catholicism, unless such programming shows no respect for the University's mission or shows no willingness to enter into academic or intellectual con­versation," the resolution reads. 
Walsh said the resolution argued for "an innate value" to programming like "The Vagina Monologues" with ele­ments that may oppose the University's Catholic character. 
At first, senators largely praised the idea behind the resolution, arguing about phrasing issues and hammer­ing out details of particular clauses. 
But the most articulate opposition to the resolution came from Academic Affairs committee chair Chris Harris, whose statement temporarily quieted senators and seemed to embolden a few more con­trary voices. 
Harris prefaced his com­ments by saying, "I don't think I'm going to make friends with this." 

"I don't support this resolu­tion," Harris said. "I just want to say ... I support Father Jenkins and the way he's han­dled this ... When it comes down to it, your views, my views, that's not really the [point]." 
Quoting former Cavanaugh senator Jordan Bongiovanni, Harris said, "We have to rep­resent our constituents. It's obvious there is not consensus on campus ... This is not the time or place for student gov­ernment to take a stand." 
Harris drew a distinction between passing this resolu­tion and a resolution support­ing the College Readership Program. 
"We're not questioning the merit of a program," he said. 
and what that means," according to junior Kathryn Wilson, Conference Chair. 
Wilson said the conference "gives [undergraduates] a chance not only to listen to experts, but to interact with them." Experts include Dr. Paul McHugh, Psychiatrist in Chief of Johns Hopkins University and member of the President's Council on Bioethics -who will deliver the keynote speech on Friday. 
Dr. William Hurlbut of Stanford University, another President's Council member, will discuss biotechnology and stem cell research. 0. Carter Snead of the Notre Dame Law School will also speak at the event, Wilson said. 
Other topics addressed by 
"This is in the hands of the administration, Father Jenkins. You have served your constituents well, brought their views to Father Jenkins ... We have done everything we were elected to do." 
lie described the resolution as a "great attempt at a mid­dle ground -but as we all know, there is no middle ground on this issue." 
Siegfried senator Ben Gunty responded to Harris by saying he didn't think the resolution was overly slanted in one direction. 
"I think this is serving exact­ly what the University has said on [academic freedom], in a more formal way," he said. "This is our opportunity and our responsibility to make a decision on this issue." 
Carroll senator Jim Grace, who backed many of Harris' points, said he thought "a more reactive approach would be better than preempting this whole thing." 
And Farley senator Carol Hendrickson also said she did­n't think senators could accu­rately draft a statement encompassing the views of the entire student body. 
"I had no idea [Jenkins] was going into the discussion [with the possibility of1 having ['The Vagina Monologues'] every other year," Hendrickson said, referring to a statement made by Jenkins during a March 3 Senate meeting. "I almost agree with Father Jenkins ... I understand his point about balance. 
"So now I don't even know what people in my dorm think about having it every other year. I think the issue has changed." 
The back-and-forth contin­ued as Lewis senator Katie McHugh firmly defended her committee's resolution. 
"Great leaders sometimes have to look beyond what their constituents think ... [to] do what's best for the University," she said. 
Walsh said the University Affairs committee will present a revised form of the resolu­tion at the next Senate meet­ing. 
Senior Vijay Ramanan, for­mer Academic Affairs commit­tee chair and current student delegate to the University's Academic Council, took the podium af the beginning of the meeting to present a proposal for a course information sys­tem for students to use before the registration period each semester. 
"For many years, students have been requesting a credi­ble and comprehensive reli­able source about [course offerings] at Notre Dame," 
speakers will include the role of the patient, the responsibility of the doctor to the patient, repro­ductive health and bioethics in the judicial system. 
Senior Michael Subialka, a member of the Forum on Biomedical Ethics, said the event is comprised of three main com­ponents: presentations by profes­sionals in the field, three student presentations and participant dis­cussion. A Notre Dame student will give one of the student pre­sentations and two Notre Dame students will serve on the panels, he said. 
"We really believe firmly that the more undergraduates inter­act with professionals in the field, the more they are going to get out of it personally," Subialka said. 
Wilson said the conference is "entirely planned by and for undergraduate participation in bioethics." 
"The purpose is just to exposn undergraduates to the field," she said. 
Schools typically bid to host the conference two years in advance, but while attending the confer­ence at Michigan State her fresh­man year, Wilson discovered there were no bids to host the 2006 conference. 
"With huge interest at Notre Dame, I thought we could defi­nitely put one together," she said. 
Notre Dame students presented their ideas last year at the eon-

Morrissey senator Brian Klein and lewis senator Kate McHugh participate In discussion at Wednesday's Student Senate meeting. 
Ramanan said 

So two years ago, student government requested that teacher course evaluation (TCE) form results be made available to students -an idea with good intentions, Ramanan said, but ultimately inadequate and not feasible. 
Last year, a Committee for Better Informing the Course Selection Process was formed, with Ramanan and associate provost Dennis Jacobs as co­chairs. The committee, com­posed of students, faculty and administrators, has spent a year crafting the proposal. 
The goal of the proposal, Ramanan said, is "so you can get an idea of what [a particu­lar] class and associated activ­ities would be like." 
The committee drafted five questions that students would be asked to answer in addition to current TCE questions. The responses to these questions about a particular class, along with information provided by the professor of the class and Institutional Research, would be posted online for only stu­dents and the course's profes­sor to view. 
"It's not to create a resource that identifies easy classes ... [but to] match interests, tal­ents, skills [students] would like to develop to courses we have," Ramanan said. "If you think about this carefully, this [resolution] is kind of a no­brainer." 
Senators unanimously passed a resolution in support of the committee's proposal. Ramanan said he could not give a full timeline for the project -which he called "a concept near completion" ­but said the Faculty Senate would be voting on the propos­resolution in support of Notre Dame Health Services' hiring of a new physician, recom­mending that this physician specialize "in the treatment of and response to eating disor­ders, sexual assault and women's health." 
Welsh Family senator Brenna Doyle said the Gender Issues committee wanted to stress the importance of hiring a physician with a background in women's issues, such as sexual assault. 
"Currently, the Health Center doesn't have a strong reputation [in that field]," Doyle said. 
The resolution passed with­out opposition. 
In other Senate news: 

+ The Senate approved stu­dent body president Dave Baron and student body vice president Lizzi Shappell's topic for student government's May presentation to the Board of Trustees -student-alumni relations. 
Baron and Shappell will head to Washington D.C. on May 4 to discuss the contrast between Notre Dame 20 years ago and Notre Dame now -a "gap" Baron said was revealed this year during debates over the "Candle" institutional spot and academic freedom. 
+ The Oversight committee announced several award recipients at the meeting. 
Baron and Ramanan were both selected to receive the Irish Clover Award for service to the student body. 
Political science specialist Joshua Kaplan was chosen to receive the Frank O'Malley award for outstanding under­graduate teaching. 
al at its meeting to be held 
next month. Contact Maddie Hanna at The Senate also passed a mhannal@nd.edu 
ference held at University of Pennsylvania and successfully obtained the bid to host this year's conference. 
Though University organizers "had one year to do what most schools get two years to do," Wilson said this conference has the "best lineup in years." 
Approximately 170 people have signed up to attend the confer­ence from schools across the country and from Canada, the majority being from Notre Dame, Subialka said. Hosted by the Forum on Biomedical Ethics, the conference is free to students, who may still register online. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 



Fire 
continued from page 1 

ments such as Pope .John Paul ll's 1997 "The Theology of the Body" and Pope Benedict XVI's recent encyclical ''Deus est Caritas," Kaminski said it nevertheless has a "credibility problem" when it comes to pleasure and the body. 
Church officials have a lot to say on moral sexual con­duct, but less on professional or financial behavior, she said. Sexuality has become the make or break point on whether an individual is a good Catholic. 
"In a broken world where for many women sex is painful and its consequences political, we need to attend to the political as well as the personal and cultural dimen­sions of sexuality," Kaminski said. 
When it comes to issues of sexuality, Kaminski said, women must use their con­science to make prudent decisions. 
"By that I mean the process by which you use your own reasoning ability, the sources of divine revela­tion, the Church's teaching and guidance, the wise coun­sel of others and your own individual and communal experiences of grace in a sincere effort to choose wise­ly and well," she said. 
In the question and answer portion of the lecture, junior Allison Beyer said the most holy woman in Church tradi­tion is the Virgin Mary, leav­ing married women without a model for their vocation as wives. 
Kaminski said virginity was not an important point in the early Christian Church, but rather this was something that developed later in history. Mary is cele­brated for centering herself on her responsibilities to God, she said, and in that sense "can be a model for all women." 
Senior Jenny Robbins said there are many serious cou­ples today who feel they are in a committed relationship and respect the holiness of sex. 
Kaminski said many cou­ples say they are open to the future possibility of children in their relationships, but due to financial constraints, professional pursuits or ill­ness, they are not always in a position to get pregnant. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, March 9, 2006 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Church in Uganda collapses, 27 dead 
KAMPALA -A brick wall at a partly eon­structnd church in Uganda's capital collapsed onto tlw congn~gation Wedrwsday during an nvnning t.hund11rstorm. killing at lnast 27 pno­pln and injuring dozens morn, authorities said. 
Thn l'rotnstant 11vangelical church in a Kampala slum was under construction, and parishi01wrs snt up a wood-and-tin shack insidn thn untinislwd structurn so tlwy could ronduet sorvi«~ns, rogional policn Commander CracP Puryagurnanawn said. 
"Wn'rn going to invnstigatn the poor building standards. Wn havn aln1ady colleetnd samples of tho matPrials usnd," hn said. 
Iran threatens the U.S. with 'pain' 
VIENNA, Austria-Iran threatnnnd the Unitnd Statns with "harm and pain" Wndnesday if lhn U.S. trins to usn the U.N. Seeurity Council as a nnw and potPnt levnr to punish Tnhran fi1r iL'i suspnd mu:IPar program. 
W<L'ihington warrwd that Tehran has enough nudnar matnrial fi1r up to 10 atomi1~ bombs. 
Tlw rlwtorir refThctml the intensity of tho ddmtn at a lllnPting of thP lntnrnational Atomic l·:nnq.,ry's :Hi-nation board ovnr a critical rnport on Iran's nudnar program. Tho nwnting nndml latn Wodrwsday, formally opnning tho path to Sncurity Coundl action that could rangn from a mild slatPmPnt urging cornplianc~n to sanctions or 1wnn military nwasurns. 
Tlw mnPting also set tlw stagn fi1r a pot1mtial struggiP lwtwnnn Washington, whieh stwks harsh nwasurns against T11hran, and Moscow, whirh advocatns a sof'tnr linn. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Students arrested in Ala. church fires 
BIBMIN<;IIAM-Throe coliPgn st.udnnts, including two aspiring actors known around campus as pranksters, wnre arrnstnd WPdrwsday in a string of nine church firns that sprnad fi1ar aeross Alabama last month. 
Fndnral agtmts said thn defmulants daimml that tlw first fi1w hlazos wnre set as "a joke" and that tlw othnrs wnrn startnd to throw investiga­tors on· tlw track. 
(;ov. Bob lliloy said thn firns did not appnar to bP "any typ11 of conspiracy against organiznd rnli~ion" or tlw Baptist faith. With the arrnsL'i, he said, "thn litith-bcL'ind mmmunity can mst a little lla'iinr." 
B11njamin Nallum Mosnlny and Hussnll Lee lhdHJsk .Jr., hoth I'J-ynar-old studnnts at Binningham-Southnrn Collngn, appnarnd in fnd­nral ~~ourt and wnrn hnld on church arson ehargns p1mding a !waring Friday. Mattlww Len Cloyd. 20-ynar-old junior at tho Univnrsity of Alabama at Birmingham. was also arn~stnd. 
Top bishop accused of sex abuse 
SI'OKANii, Wash. -A woman has lilml a dairn that stw W<L'i snxually abusnd mon1 than 40 ynars ago hy Bishop William Skylstad, prnsi­dnnt of tlw U.S. Conli1nmcn of Catholic bishops and l11adnr of l.lw Spokan11 Dioeesn. 
Skylstad issuPd a statnmnnt Wndnesday deny­ing tlw aceusation, saying tw has not violatnd tlw vow of rnlihary hn took 47 years ago. 
Th11 rlaim was filtH! against thn Homan Catholic f>iocnsn of Spokann on Dnc. 27 by a woman who said sh11 W<L'i undnr thn agn of IS wlwn Skylstad snxually abused her at St. Patrick's Parish and at Conzaga Univnrsity from 
IIJhl to 1%4. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Biofuels plant to be built this spring 
CI./\YI'OOI., Ind. -A Frnnd1 company plans to build a plant rapahln of produring mon1 than SO million gallons of biodinsnl 11ach ynar in norllwrn Indiana, stat11 offidals said WPdn11sday. 
Louis f>myfus A~ril'ulturn lndustrins plans this spring to start building tlw $1 :~5 million plant. which would nmploy H5 work11rs, <U~l·.ord­ing to a nnws rnh~asn from tlw gowrnor's oflkn. 

It will bP l.hn ninth biofunl plant in dnvnlop­nll'nl in Indiana, with llw statn's only opnrating nthanol plant in South B11nd. Biof'u11l planL'i liSP natural products such as corn to crnatn ftu~l additiws and othnr PIWrJ..,ry sourr.es. 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVJCES page 5 
SUDAN 


Thousands march against U.N. 
Scores of protesters demand expulsion of American peacekeepers from Darfur 
Associated Press 
KIIAHTOUM -Tens or 
thousands of Sudanese 
marched through 
Khartoum on W1~dnesday, 
protesting plans to deploy 
of U.N. p11aceknepnrs in 
confliet-torn Darfur and 
demanding tho expulsion of' 
the top U.N. and U.S. 
envoys in thn country. 
The Sudanese govern­ment also increasP.d its opposition to the deploy­ment, with a top official warning that violence will only increase if U.N. troops movn in to rnplacf~ African Union pna1~eknepnrs. 
"If the U.N arrivns the troubles will spread in the region," Moham11d Elsamani, Sudan's minister of state for foreign affairs, said in Nairobi. 
Officials from the Europnan Union, the United States and the African Union. along with Sudanese Vice President Ali Osman Mohamed Taha, held talks in Brussels aimed at spurring the faltering Darfur pnace negotiations. 
U.S. Dnputy Secretary of State Hobert Zoellick said both the EU and Washington wanted to have a bigger peacnkeeping force in place in Darfur, but it had to coincide with achiev­ing a lasting peace deal between Darfur rebels and the Sudanese government. 
"We hope that the Sudanese govPrnment will not resist," Zoellick said. "Wn hope that tho Sudanese government will recognize how this is in its intnrest to end the violmH~e." 
A beleaguered 7,000­strong African Union pnace­keeping f'orce operates in Darfur, where three years of violence has loft some 180,000 d11ad -most from disease and hunger -and displaced another 2 million from their homes. 
The AU forcn has faced severe funding and logisti­cal problmns, and its man­date expires at the end of March. The Security Coundl has recommended that tho United Nations start planning to take over peacekeeping. 

In Khartoum, some 30,000 people marched from Martyrs Square to thP. offices of the United Nations, threatening to fight any U.N. force deployed in Darfur. Thny demanded tho removal of' the top U.N. onvoy in Sudan, .Jan Pronk, and the U.S. charge d'af­faires. 
"Death to invaders" and "Our country will be their graveyard," many in the crowds chanted, some wav­ing automatic weapons in the air. SomP. carried ban­ners reading "death to America" and "resistance and jihad lholy war]." A heavy police and security al of the organization, told presence closed down roads tho cheering crowds. loading to Western. The conflict in Darfur-a embassies in the city. largP region of WPstern 

The march was organized Sudan -began wlwn two by the Popular Organization rebel groups rose up for the Defense of' the against ruin by tlw Homeland and tlw Faith, a Khartoum govnrnmPnt. pro-government umbrella claiming discrimination group or religious, civil and against Darf'ur's nthnie women's movoments and Afriean population. politieal parties, inelucling Cov1~rnmont troops tho ruling party. laundwd a crackdown. and 
"We know the Anwricans Arab militias known as l.lw and the British are too .JanjawPNI bogan a cam­seared to send troops to paign of' violenco, burning Sudan after what has hap­ethnie Afriean villages and pened to them in driving out, killing and rap­Afghanistan and in Iraq, ing tlw residents. Tl111 but even if' tl111y send pure Sudanesn governnwnt is Muslim or Arab troops wo widely allegPd to havP will consider thmn invaders unlnaslwd tl111 .Janjawnnd, and will fight them," Fatahi though it denins thn aeeusa­Khalil, the secrotary-gener-tion. 
Clinton speaks out on immigration 
Associated Press 

WASIIINGTON -Sen. llillary Hodham Clinton, a potential White House candidatn in 200H, said Wmlnesday some Hepublicans arn try­ing to croatn a "police statp," to round up illegal inunigranL'i. 
Clinton, D-N.Y., spokn out on the U.S. immigration policy aftnr largnly staying away from an issue that has roiled Congrnss in rocent months and spurrml a numbnr of conflicting proposals. 
Speaking at a rally of Irish immi­grants, Clinton eritieized a bill the House passnd in Dncombm that would impos1~ harsher penalties for undoeu­mentnd workers. 
"Don't turn your baeks on what made this eountry great," she said, calling the measure "a rebuke to what America stands for." 
The llouse mnasurn would make unlawful presence in thn United States, whieh is currently a dvil ofTnnse, a ldony. 
Clinton said it would be "an unwork­able sehnme to try to dnport 11 million people, which you hcLVO to have a polke statP to try to do." 
Shn called instoad for immigration changPs "based on strengthening our borders in order to makn us saf'(lr from thn thrnat of terrorism." 
The senator also snnt a four-page public lnttnr to constitunnts outlining her vinws on immi~ration. In Uw lettnr, she shind away fhnn spndfks hut said shn dons support allowing at lnast somP of the ~~stimated II million undocu­rnentPd worknrs to narn dtiwnship. 

Such changns should indude "a path to narrwd dtizPnship fin· thosP who arn hnrn, working hard. paying laxPs, rnspncting the law, and willing to nwnl a high bar for lw1~oming a citizPn," Clinton wrote. 
Snnatn Judiciary CommittPn Chairman Arlnn Spnctnr, H-l'a., has offernd lngislation thai would tTt~atn separatP worker programs: onP fi1r illl'­gal immigrants already in thn country and anotlwr for future immigrant worknrs. 
page 6 Thursday, March 9, 2006
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Faculty 
continued from page 1 
specifically on how the University should address recent campus events like "The Vagina Monologues." 
"There can be a mixture of internal and external circum­stances that prompt the exami­nation of propriety and accept­ability of a particular academic program," Knight said. "Whether an academic program or activity is to be launched or is to contin­ue is for each institution and fac­ulty and its student body to decide." 
Knight said he did not feel that academic freedom was a suffi­cient defense for not allowing controversial events to be shown on a broader stage at a University. 
"It's difficult to see what princi­ples consistent with academic freedom could be relied upon to not allow a department to have a play performed in a more public venue because its content is deemed offensive," Knight said. 
Several faculty members and students who attended the forum nodded as Knight described the AAUP's policy on academic free­dom. 
Knight quoted excerpts from University President Father John Jenkins' recent addresses on academic freedom, and his "striking" distinction between "what is done by an individual on one hand and the group on the other." 
But, Knight said, since an event put on by a group natural­ly can draw more attention to itself, it's important to distinguish the criteria that constitutes endorsement. 
"It's not that the institution is taking a positive step to endorse but it perhaps is seen as endors­ing," he said. "I would maintain that the principle for making this kind of judgment cannot focus on the use of institutional resources." 
If the use of University resources constitutes endorse­ment, Knight said, then profes­sors using e-mail, the library or a classroom to express ideas contrary to Catholic teaching could be implying institutional endorsement. 
"I am therefore skeptical that the reason advanced to date for not allowing 'The Vagina Monologues' or the !event for­merly known as] Queer Film Festival to continue as they have 
in the past can find support 
under principles of academic 
freedom." 
Heft took the podium and pro­

vided three metaphors for what 
a University can be -a "mar­
ketplace", a "closed circle" and 
an "open circle." 
Heft described the "market­

place" as an environment where 
all ideas are discussed and 
debated and only the fittest sur­
vive debate. The nation's elite 
secular universities aspire to 
this, Heft said. 
The "closed circle" metaphor 

refers to a university where the 
"leadership expects full 
agreement on all significant 

aspects related to the mission of 
the institution." 
A university that fits under the 

"open circle" is circumscribed to 
"provide a wide variety of ideas." 
"To be an open circle the 

University has to value the con-. 
tributions of every member of the academic community to engage the great questions as a · scholarship community," Heft 
said. 
He said that a Catholic univer­

sity should be able to draw the 
lines of the circle to accommo­
date a wide-reaching range of 
ideas. 
"A truly Catholic university will be able to over time sort out the worthy from the unworthy, the insightful from the trivial all the while giving glory to God." 
After both Knight and Heft address the audience, the floor was open for discussion. Some professors expressed dissatisfac­tion with Heft's comments ­saying they were too general­ized. 
"I've served in academic administration for 14 years and eight as provost," he said "I have found it very useful to be as clear as possible on principles but very hesitant to make applications unless you know the full con­tours of a specified case." 
But Heft tried to further explain his stance by referring to how the University of Dayton dealt with "The Vagina Monologues." 
"I think if a University allows external pressure to set its course, it makes a huge mistake ... one of the most important things people need is face time. Sitting down face to face and talking about [a controversial issue.]" 
That's how the University of Dayton handled the Vagina Monologues, Raft said. This year Dayton students put on their own version of the "Monologues", allowing both male and female students to share their experi­ences related to sexuality and self-acceptance. 
Notre Dame Law School pro­fessor Doug Cassel addressed Knight, highlighting the middle ground between what might appear to be endorsed by a uni­versity. 
"It strikes me that if a depart­ment sponsors a public produc­tion of a play, that that is as likely to be perceived by the public at large and many in the University committee as having implicit sponsorship of the University, just as if the University spon­sored a play," Cassel said. 
Heft noted that Notre Dame is in a unique position as a promi­nent Catholic university with access to a significant amount of financial support. 
"The University has to stand its ground," Heft said. "The danger for a place like this that has resources is to outgrow Catholicism, as it is an ill-fitting stricture, and not draw on those intellectual traditions....If you could recapture that as the lifeblood of the debate, you're better off." 
Sociology professor Joan Aldous said she was "100 per­cent in favor of the Sociology Department's sponsorship of 'The Vagina Monologues'" and asked both Knight and Heft how the American setting has played a role in framing the issue of academic freedom. 
Heft said too many University presidents -unlike Jenkins ­are not confident enough to allow their campus communities to engage in discussion about contentious topics, which could be perceived as restricting a U.S. citizen's constitutional right to free speech. 
Several professors nodded in agreement as Knight described the need for Universities to tell professors when they are hired if they will be restricted in what they can and cannot teach. 
"One thing we've always made clear, if a religious institution imposes restriction on what can be taught ... it needs to make that clear at the outset," Knight said. "The faculty member should be apprised if there are indeed limits on what he or she may say or publish. If there are restraints they should be known." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
TV 
"The only thing I know [about SMC-TV] is just the 
ads they run on TV," fresh­continued from page 1 man Emily Perry said. Fitzgerald, a senior, said 
Two weeks from today, the programming of SMC-TV however, the wait will be will be much more diverse over. once it goes on the air after 
"There is officially no spring break. longer a hold-up," SMC-TV "SMC-TV is going to make a General Manager Michelle concerted effort to cover Fitzgerald everything that said. "The happens on President's campus, not just Cabinet has "'! think it will sports or art granted us exhibits, but
definitely help to keep

permission to senior [compre­
people more up-to­

start broad­hensive] presen­casting." date on current tations and lec­SMC-TV is tures,'' she said.
events, because a lot

'strictly a stu­"Things like
ofpeople aren't." 

dent organi­Theology on zation,' Fire and the Fitzgerald Lisa Anderson diversity confer­said. ence we had last
Saint Mary's freshman 

The delay week, we'll have occurred cameras there." because the The weekly station had to go through the programming will consist of a President's Council to obtain news program to inform stu­that special status. A decision dents about events happening was made so the station will around campus as well as not have to answer to Student two or three shows, including Activities Board to preserve a possible exercise show and freedom of speech and a cooking show. Fitzgerald expression. In the rare event said she hopes faculty and that station officials cannot student forums on various make a decision, a station issues will also be sponsored advisory council -consisting and broadcast by SMC-TV. of faculty and staff members "It's really just a 21st cen­-will step in. tury version of being an 
"To build a strong founda­informed human being," tion to such a monumental Vince Berdayes, communica­thing at Saint Mary's, we tions professor and SMC-TV wanted to make faculty advi­sure all the t's sor, said.
"The TV that is

were crossed and The pro­the i's were dot­currently in the gramming ted -and the schedule is
CyberCafe will be 

j's, too," drawing
moved to the dining 

Fitzgerald said. both positive Keith Fowlkes, hall and a I4-inch TV and negative director of infor­will be placed above reactions 
mation technolo­from stu­
the dessert bar so

gy and SMC-TV dents. faculty advisor, students can watch "I think it 
SMC-TV while 

said those behind will definite-the station aimed . . h . l , ly help to 
to put the "best enjoyzng t ezr mea s. keep people product possible" more up-to­out for students. Michelle Fitzgerald date on cur­"We were get-SMC-TV general manager rent events, ting all our bases because a covered to ensure lot of people quality programming," aren't," freshman Lisa Fowlkes said. Anderson said. SMC-TV is currently on the Senior Ashley Peltier said air in the form of a scrolling though she sees positive par­billboard of campus news and allels between SMC-TV and events -something that led Notre Dame's station, NO-TV, several students to think this she wishes it would have was the station's only pur-been started earlier -and pose. other students agreed. 
"I don't feel like much is going to happen," junior Megan Osberger said. ''I'm sure it will pick up, but I don't think we [upperclass­men] will ever see much out of it." 
Regardless of differing opinions, Berdayes remains confident that SMC-TV will bring about academic change. 
"In the communications department, we have been building a sequence of cours­es on film production," Berdayes said. "So, now there will be a group of people around campus who will be able to go out and create their own productions." 
Fitzgerald said advertising opportunities on the channel will be plentiful for on-cam­pus organizations and busi­nesses in the South Bend community. 
"Sodexho is really interest­ed in having lots of ad time," she said. 
Anderson, a member of stu­dent government, said she believes SMC-TV will be very helpful to advertising events on campus. 
"Not everyone reads the posters we put up, but they do watch TV,'' Anderson said. 
SMC-TV will be accessible to students not just from their rooms but also in the dining hall. 
"T)le TV that is currently in the CyberCafe will be moved to the dining hall and a 14­inch TV will be placed above the dessert bar so students can watch SMC-TV while enjoying their meals," Fitzgerald said. 
SMC-TV is based in the Huisking Family Instructional Technology Resource Center, located near Trumper Computer Center in the base­ment of the Cushwa-Leighton Library. Fitzgerald said the Huisking family is "the pri­mary source of funding for SMC-TV." 

In addition to the nine stu­dents and three faculty mem­bers on the core executive staff, about 20 other students are already involved in the project -all are busy drum­ming up interest among the student body for the new pro­gramming when school resumes March 20. 
Contact Molly Lamping at mlampiO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Cr.·eati·,,e?' .... F·. . . ,··unn~,,r?
. . ' '. .. 'J • 


Thought-provoking? 
Submit your \Vorks ofart and literature to 
1.• 




The Juggler 
Notre Dm:ne's student literacy tnagazine 
E-mail '\lTitten submissions to juggler@nd.edu b~r 1\llarch 20. Submit art to ~iatjt in 306 RileJr. 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Thursday, March 9, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 


11,005.74 +25.05

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 878 137 2,367 2,235,711,490 
AMEX 1,856,94__-:15]IJ 
NASDAQ  2,267:46  -0.92  
NYSE  g,026.09  +8.73  
S&PSOO  I ,278.47  +2.59  
NIKK£1(Tokyo)  1S,627.49  0.00  
FTSE IOO(l.Dndon) 5,g12.90  -44.50  

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ II 0 TR (QQQQ) +0.05 +0.02 40.87 
jDS UNIPHASE CP UDSU) +7.14 +0.25 3.75 
INTEL CP (INTC) -0.25 -0.05 20.0 I 
LEXAR MEDIA INC (LEXR) 
+24.54 + 1.74 8.83 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 
+0.70 +0.19 27.25 
Treasuries 
I0-YEAR NOTE -0.04 -0.02 47.34 
13-WEEK BILL +0.07 +0.03 44.85 
30-YEAR BOND +0.02 +0.0 I 47.23 
5-YEAR NOTE -0.17 -0.08 47.46 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.56 60.02 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -I 0.20 544.30 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.30 87.58 
Excha Rates 
YEN 
117.8200 
EURO 
0.8386 
POUND 0.5751 
CANADIAN$ 1.1566 
IN BRIEF 
NYSE Group stock soars on first day 
NEW YOHK -Investors wnleonwd tho NYSE Group Inc. to Wall Stroot Wndrwsday, snnding shares ol' t.lw rwwly public Nnw York Stock l·:xl'hangn up 2!i pnrn~nt. in its first trading ses­sion on tho Big Board. 
!\l'ler nearly 214 years as a not-for-profit nxl'hangl\ tlw NYSI·: transl'ornwd itsnll' into a puhlic: company li11lowing iL<> $10 billion acquisi­tion ol' Pln<:troni<: rival !\rchipnlago lloldings Inc. on Ttwsday. 
"It l'nnls good," said John Thain, ehinl' nxnc:u­tivn ol' NYSI~ Group and the architnd ol' t.hn deal. "Now, ol' c:oursn, wn havo t.o domonstratn to our shan•holdPrs that thorn's real valun to lw had horn." 
Tlw nnw c:ompany lwgan trading undPr the ticknr symbol NYX Wmlnnsday, with Thain and NYSI·: Croup Chairman Marshall CartPr naeh purchasing 100 sharns at $67 in ceremonial first trades; tlw prien was up $2.75 J'rom 1\rc:hipelago's dosn Tuesday ol' $64.25. The st.oc:k c:ontinund to climb afterward, and linislwd tlw snssion at. $HO pnr sham. up $1 !i.75. Volumn canw t.o morn than I H million shams, about 36 tirnos !\rl'hipdago's aVI1rag<~ daily trade of just under !iOO.OOO shan~s. 
The sm:ond trade al'tnr Thain's was actually conducted on tho oleet.ronic Nasdaq Stock Market, aecording to Nasdaq ol'licials, whore I00 shares worn sold at tho same $6 7 pricn orw second after Thain's trade was eomplntnd. 1\<:eording to Nasdaq's Web site, .nearly (J million NYX shares traded hands through its systnm. 


U.S., Malaysia consider free trade 
W!\SIII NCTON -Thn Bush administration, pushing to Pxpand nxport opportunities for U.S. companies ami farnwrs. announc1~d Wndrwsday it is launching f'rl'l' tmdo talks with Malaysia, AmP rica's IOth largnst trading partnnr. 
Both sid11s JH'PdictiHI the talks, which arn oxpP1'lPd to hPgin in .lww allPr a 90-day <:onsul­tation pPriod with Congrnss, can be wrapp11d up by tlw nnd ol' tlH' yoa.r. 
Tho administmtion. f'adng criticism that its lrad11 polil'ios haw l'ontributnd to rn<'.ord dnlirits, assPmhiPd a bipartisan group ol' lawmaknrs and lmgo businnss groups at a Capitol llill rwws eon­I'Pri'IH'P to voice thnir support. l'or tho talks with Malaysia. 

AUSTRIA 


OPEC output will remain steady 
Organization intends to preserve market stability, ensure supply amid terrorism 
Associated Press 
VIENNA -OPEC said  
Wednosday it would keep  
pumping at eurnmt levels to  
ensure adnquate supplies as  
extrmnists targ<~t oil facilities  
from the Middle East to  
Nignria and a confrontation  
escalates ovnr Iran's suspeet  
nudnar program.  
Edmund Daukoru, presi­ 
dent of the Organization of  
Petrolnum Exporting  
Countries, said thn output  
quota would remain  
untoUI:hed at 2H million bar­ 
rels a day, but that the 11­ 
nation cartel would keep  
dose tabs on the situation in  
the period when demand  
traditionally oases between  
now and summnr.  
Daukoru conceded the  
group was preoccupied with  
priens that have hovered for  
months above $60 pnr bar­ 
rel ­well over the $40-$50  
range that many OPEC  
membnrs have called opti­ 
mal -but he rnfusod to say  
what price threshold would  
trigg11r aetion. AP  
"We are concerned that Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) President Edmund Maduabebe  
priens don't gnt out or hand Daukoru talks to journalists at the OPEC conference In VIenna Wednesday.  
-that thorn's some sanity  
to prico levels," Daukoru  because of higher trans­ Sabah, said he expects  Caracas, VnrwzuPia. ThaI  
said.  portation eosL<; and expenses  priens will drop below $60 a  country's oil minister, Hal'ltPI  
"One thing OPEC tries to  for othanol blending. The  barrel between April and  Hamirez, said he would trv  
do is prnsnrve market stabil­ relining industry is introduc­ June, but are likoly to  anew l.o push through a nit  
ity," he added. "We have  ing ethanol as a substitute  rnbuund to the $60 rang<~ in  of at least half a million bar­ 
said wn will continue to  for methyl tertiary butyl  the fourth quarter. llo said  n~ls a day.  
monitor elosoly, and depend­ nthor, or MTBE, in summer  ho bolinvos political turmoil  Iran's ministPr ol' potrolo­ 
ing on what we soo we will  blends ofgasoline.  and oxtrnmism have added  um, Kazmn Vaziri llamannh  
do what is best ((JJ' tho mar­ "Wn'ro not. looking l'or a  $!i to $H to oaeh barrol.  -whoso country is lockPd  
ket. We nend to know morn  marked increase, but we  Underscoring how world  in a standoll' with tlw West  
about dmnand."  could sne priees higher than  events aro buffeting tlw  over iL<> nudmtr adivitins - 
D•~mand is oxpected to  last yoar," ho said.  market, OPI~C isstwd a stat<~­ insisted that Tehran would  
slidn by up to 2 million bar­ OPEC pumps about a third  mnnt acknowledging that  not retaliate by halting or  
rels a day in the second  of the world's oil, although  "world erudn oil prices  cutting bar.k on oil exporL<>.  
quartnr.  Daukoru said it would hold  romain volatile, theso boing  "So far thnn1 's no mason  
But OPEC's decision to  about 40 poreont of the mar­ driven by goopolitkal factors  to reduce exports. Iran has  
loavn produetion levels alone  ket through 2010 and could  and associatod eoneorns  no intnntion wha1.s<u•vnr of  
won't bring boloaguored  hit 50 percent thornall.er. Its  regarding potential future  rPdudng its oil exports," hn  
motorists any roliol' at the  daily quota dons not indudo  supply disruptions."  said as tlw lntPrnational  
gas pumps, said Jason  about l.!i million barrels  It stressod, hownvnr: "The  Atomic Energy Agency's 3!i­ 
Sdwnker, an neonomist with  addod by Iraq ­a compar­ market. is fundamentally  nation board, also nwnting  
Waehovia Corp. IIe prediets  ative dribble that also wor­ well-supplied with crude  in Vinnna, weiglwd wlwthPr  
retail gas prkos eould rise  ries some mombnrs.  oil."  to prnss for deepnr involw­ 
with tlw approach of the  Kuwait's oil ministnr, Sheik  Daukoru said OPEC's next  nwnt with Iran by tlw U.N.  
summer driving season  !\hnwd Fahd !\I Ahmed AI  mooting would bn June I in  Security Coundl.  

Enron exec faces cross-examination 
Associated Press 
IIOUSTON -A lawyer for former Enron Corp. CEO Jeffrey Skilling mounted a blistering attack Wednesday on the admittnd arehitnet of schemes that holpod ruin the com­pany, saying ho let his own wife to go to prison because or his raging gnwd. 
The cross-examination of !\ndrow Fastow, who has linked Skilling and Enron J'oundor Kenneth Lay to mas­sive fraud at the eom pany, provided tl111 most tPn se and dram a tie monwnts yet in the federal trial of thn l'ornwr chinI' executives. 
Lawynr Daniol Petrocelli focusnd on t.hn willingness ol' the former chief' financial ol'lker to watch his wife, Lea, servo a year in. prison rather than conw dean with federal investi­gators, and Fastow's admission that 
his own children wore indirectly caught up in his <Times. 
"So you sacrificed your wife to pro­tect your own self-interests, cor­rect'?" Petrocelli asked, in a tone of disbelief. 
"I did not go in and plead guilty bnforn that point in time, that's cor­rect," Fastow replind. 
Lea Fastow served a year in prison !'or submitting a tax return that l'ailml to elassil'y as ineome tho kick­backs intnndnd J'or Fastow-somn of which were sent in t.hn form of chocks to his two young sons. 
"To do those things you must be consumed with an insatiable grnnd. Is that fair to say'?" Pntrocnlli asked. 
"I believe I was nxtremely grePdy and that I lost my moral eompass and I've donn terrible things that I very much regret." answered Fastow, who has pleaded guilty to two conspiracy counts and agwed to serve up to 10 years in J'ndPral prison. 
Tho defense lawyer sought. t.o undermine tPstimony in which Fastow said Skilling gavn his blessing 
t.o linandal partm1rships dosignnd to hide lossns at hll'on and llJPet investors' earnings nxpm:tations. 
Tlw kiekbacks Fastow rPCPivPd that ropPd his wil'e into tlw l·:nron scandal wen~ separato !'rom thos1~ l'inancial partrwrships. LlrHII'r quPs­tioning from l'ntroenlli, Fastow said Skilling and Lay rncnived no morwy from thos11 kickback sclwnws. 
Fasl.ow also said Lay sproad J'also information to Enron Pmployi111S and tho publie in latn 200 I wlwn lw knew tho company's l'inarH:Ps W<'rP crumbling, !'.ontrasting Lay's elaim that he beliPved Enron was lwalthy right to tho end. 
page 8 Thursday, March 9, 2006
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Wesleyan University as examples $13,425, and "most of the lowest low the footsteps of the campus tion will have 1,600 names by of the more than 30 academic paid positions start at a level labor movement at Harvard and Easter -40 names for every
CLAP 
institutions nationwide currently three minimum pay, earning stage a sit-in, Porter said the day of the Lenten season. paying a living wage to their $18,842 per year," according to group would, if it ClAP plans to
continued from page 1 
workers. the report. was "appropriate" present the To establish a Though the and if Jenkins did 'The University petitions to "We've been writing this for a living wage at "This wage would put achievement of not recognize CLAP values Catholic Social University offi­month," she said. "We've been Notre Dame, the this living wage and their requests. cials at a future
employees above both Teaching and being a
researching for over a year. We report suggests was the organi­"The University time, Porter interviewed people from the a minimum the poverty level and zation's greater values Catholic force for justice, we said, after Harvard Living Wage Campaign $12.10 per hour just about the Food purpose, Porter Social Teaching want a reasoned administrators and we talked with the wage, or said CLAP had and being a force react to
and Nutrition Service response and
Georgetown Living Wage $25,164 a year, three main goals for justice, we Wednesday's Campaign -both of which were for University eligibility requirement in mind when want a reasoned negotiation with report. successful." employees. for food stamps for a distributing the response and people from all across After deliver­
The report identifies the con­"This wage report negotiation with ing the report
family offour. " campus.
cept of living wage -or "the would put Wednesday. people from all to the hourly rate of income that a employees above "We want a across campus," President's worker in a specific area must both the poverty living wage report meeting with Porter said. Kamaria Porter office, Gomez make in a 40-hour workweek to leve I and just Father Jenkins," Porter said no lead organizer of CLAP said she felt support a family of four," accord­about the Food she said. "We officials were avail­empowered. ing to the report -as one sup­& Nutrition Service eligibility want Father Jenkins to make a able for comment "I feel ported by Catholic Social requirement for food stamps for public commitment to the princi­at the time of the report distribu­strong," she said, pumping her Teaching. a family of four. No Notre Dame ple of a living wage. [And] we tion. fists in the air. "It's a group of us 
The report also references the worker should need food stamps want a joint task force of stu­CLAP is also producing an making a statement. This is so popularity of living wage move­or other federal aid to support dents, workers, faculty and online petition, which currently important, and it should be to ments around the country. citing [his or her] family," the report administrators to address worker has 433 names, as well as a writ­[the administration[ too." Harvard University, Georgetown said. issues and come up with a just ten petition circulating around University, Stanford University, The lowest-level Notre Dame policy." campus with 500 names. Porter Contact Amanda Michaels at Swarthmore College and employee currently earns When asked if CLAP would fol-said she hopes the written poti-amichael@nd.edu 

p E 
TICKETS AT LAFORTUNE 
BOX OFFICE 
CALL 

631·8128 

Thursday, March 9, 2006 The Observer + NEWS page 9 

Bush recognizes strained life in Big Easy during visit 
President views devastation in New Orleans, says Congress must come forward with nwney for rebuilding efforts 
Associarcd Press 
NI·:W OHIVANS-Six months aftPr llurrirarw Katrina, l'rPsidPnt Bush got a close-up look WPdrwsday at tlw moun­tains of' dPhris, tlw ahandorwd homps and lhP boardml-up busi­rwssPs that arn shoc~king riHnindnrs of' tlw "pain and agony" Nnw Orlnans PIHiurns still. 
Jn thn chwastatl'd J.ow1~r Ninth Ward, f1~w n~sidnnts wnrn around to tell Bush how thny lidt. But two young wonwn held up a sign li1r his motoreadn that said. "WiwrP's my government?" Fartlwr up tlw road, a man wawd a llaltPnml cardboard box on whic:h he had writllm, "Pres. rut tlw r«'d lapP and hPlp us." 
The pmsidnnt sralml down the nnthusiastie ass1~ssment he madn on his last trip to New Orleans in January, when he suggested this eity would be a gn~at plaee for Americans to bring tlwir families and have thnir 1:onvnntions. This time, Bush diseussl'd tho hard work alwad. 
lin said Congress must eome forward with morwy li1r rnbuild­ing Nnw Orleans and its broknn lnvee system. 
"I'm getting a view of the progress that is being made," Bush said. "There's still a lot of work to be donn, no question about it." 
Demolition of the worst-darn­agnd homes in the Lower Ninth Ward began only this week. Those not llattnnnd by the storm had no signs of life and were ~pray painted with lar~n Xs and, 111 some eases, the nllmber of bodies found inside. 
"You've got a pile of stuff hern," Bush said aftnr watehing a small bulldozer push a pile of debris on a strnet littnrnd with a mattress, toys, a cooking pot, several pairs of blue j1~ans, a box 

of Pasta Honi  and  a  pair of  
womnn's undnrwnar.  
"Wn  want  pnopll~  coming  

homn," Bush said, adding that hn was plnasnd to sen that Mardi Gras brought so many rnsidnnts back to cnlnbratn. 
A kny llousn par1t1l was set on Tuesday to approve $4.2 billion in llnxihln eommunity develop­ment funds for hurrieane-related housing projects, but lawmakers dedieatnd that money to all states all'ncted by Katrina. Bush said Congress must allocate all that rnonny just to help eompen­sate Louisianans whose homes wern damaged or destroyed. 
Bush also criticized Congress' earlier diversion of $1.5 billion in levnn-rebuilding money to non-New Orleans-related proj­ects, saying lawmakers "short­changed the process" of rebuild­ing the eity. lie said Congress must reverse the decision ­even as lawmakers were poised to do so. 
The House bill, part of a $19.1 billion measure for new Katrina relief spending, provides $1.5 billion in various Army Corps of Engineers water projects, chiefly for rebuilding New Orleans' levee systems. 
The president stopped in front of a pink duplex with signs on the porch that said "Keep out! No Trespassing!" Across the street, a house was spray paint­ed with the familiar orange X and the words "DOG DEAD." 
New Orleans Mayor Hay Nagin summoned Bush into the entry­way of the pink home, where mold eould be seen covering the walls at least ehest-high. "You ought to eornn see this," Nagin said. 
Bush's four-hour stop contrast­nd with previous visits to the eity where he stuck to less a!Teetnd amas. 
ll bngan with a lwlicopter ride over a landscapn of bright bluo tarps covering damaged roofs. Then his !light path turnod over the marsh land where trees lay on the ground and railroad c:ars and other debris worn strewn in the swamp. 
Tho president tried to t'ocus on tho positive. lie ordered a meal to go of md beans and rice at a diner and posed for photos with proprietor Kim Stewart. 
"Katrina knocknd us down, but its not going to keep us there," Stewart said with a smile. But asked whether about the pace of recovery, she changed her upbeat tune. "I think things should be a lot fastnr," she told reporters. 
Said Bush: "I fully understand, and I hope your country under­stands, the pain and awmy that the people of New Orleans and Louisiana and the parishes sur­rounding Now Orleans went through." 
Democrats said Bush has not done enough to help the city recover. Democratic Sens. Mary Landrieu of Louisiana and John Kerry of Massachusetts issued a report they said detailed the Bush administration's failures to respond adequately to the needs of homeowners and small busi­nesses. 
The report said 120,000 Gulf Coast residents arc waiting to find out if they will get a disaster loan while more than 140,000 others have been turned down. 
Some independent experts have suggested that the Army 

Corps of Engineers is taking shortcuts and using shoddy materials to meet the president's June 1 deadline to rebuild the levees. The ageney denies those allegations and Bush said the levees will be "equal or better than what they were before Katrina." 
"We fully understand that if the people don't have confidence in the levee system, they're not going to want to come baek," Bush said. "Peopln aren't going to want to spond money or invest." 
Bush also visited Gautier, Miss., where first lady Laura Bush promoted her foundation that is providing grants to rebuild sehool library eolleetions in the Gulf. The Bushes also stopped at a waterfront home that is being rebuilt and the president pieked up a hammer to install a light fixturn. 


CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN






STUDENTS 
The former "Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs" is expanding and seeking new undergraduate student members, regardless of sexual orientation. The newly structured council, the 
Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students is now accepting applications. 
Applications are available in the Office of Student Affairs (316 Main Building) or on the Core Council web site 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 
Applications are due by 5:00p.m. on Tuesday, March 28, 2006, and can be submitted to the Office of Student Affairs. 
Please visit our web site for more information. 

Writer: 'Da Vinci Code' copied fro111111Y work 
Associated Press 
LONDON -An author who claims "The Da Vinci Code" copied ideas from his work insist­ed in a British court Wednesday that there are major similarities b1~tween his nonfiction book and Dan Brown's erypto-religious thriller -but conceded there arn also substantial dill'erences. 
"We were writing historical conjecture, and Mr. Brown was writing a novel," said Michael Baigent, eo-author of "The I Ioly Blood and the Holy Grail." 
"One would expect their per­spectives to be marginally differ­ent, ifnot substantially different." 
Nonetheless, he said, the simi­larities were "fairly specific." 
Baigent and co-author Riehard Leigh are suing "Da Vinci Code" publisher Random House at Britain's High Court for infringing the copyright of their 1982 book. 
They daim Brown's blockbuster "appropriated the architecture" of their work, which explores the­ories that Jesus married Mary Magdalene, the couple had a child and the bloodline survives. 
If the writers succeed in secur­ing an injunction to bar the use of their material, they could hold up the scheduled May 19 release of "TheDa Vmei Code" film starring Tom Hanks. 
Random House lawyers argue that the ideas in dispute are so general they am not proteetnd by copyright. 
A lawynr for the publisher, John Baldwin, also said many of the ideas in "The lloly Blood and thn Holy Grail" did not f'eaturn in Brown's book, a mixturn of' eode­brnaking, art history, rnligion and mystical lorn that has sold mow than 40 million eopies sinen it wm; publishnd in 2003. 
"Your stal.nmnnt that Mr. Brown reached all the same historical eonjeeturo you did is fairly mis­leading," Baldwin told Baigent. "You are being unfair and inaeeu­rate." 
Baigent insisted that Brown "used the rnsult-; of our historieal conjecture." 
"'The Da Vinci Code' uses the tips of the icebergs that were pro­duced by the research that we did," Baigent said. 
New Zealand-born Baigent waB appearing for a second day of tense exchanges with Baldwin. At one point, he acknowledged using "infelicitous phraseology" in his witness statement. 
"Is infelicitous your long word for being wrong?" said Baldwin. 
In a day of testimony that some­times evoked a university semi­nar, lawyers, judge and witness pored over well-thumbed copies of "The Da Vinci Code," seeking parallels and differences with "The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail." 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, March 9, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Catholic social teachings 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds Ass1: MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas Ass1; MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hocgarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Giiloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gotrumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch A!WF.RTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD OFS!GN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsncws.l@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.!@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Edicor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q~tions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed w Ediwr in ChiefMike GiUoon. 
• 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obs:crvcr (USPS 599 .l-4000) i5 published Monday through Niday excqx do ring exam and vaation periods. Asub!ieription to The Ob~r is $tOO for one academic year; S55 for one semester. 
The Ob$trvtr is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 Suuth Dining Hall Send addr~ correo:ions to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556.()179 TheOl»crvct 
P(riudic.tl pouotge paid at N(ltte Dame W.Jlo<779 
and Jdditiona! mililing offic(S. 02-1 Somh Dining Hall 
Norrt Dame, tN 4()556--0779 
The Observer is 1 menlber of the Associated Prw. AU n:ptoduaion righu are t&:rvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Karen Langley Ken Fowler Katie Perry Jack Thornton Joe Piarulli Greg Arbogast 

Marcella Berrios Chris Khorey Viewpoint Scene Alyssa Brauweiler Liz Byrum Graphics Matt Hudson 
It may come as a news nash, but Catholic teaching is about more than sex and the right to life. It covers the entire range of human experiencfl. But how much do you, yourself, really know about Catholic social teach­ing? If the answer is, "Not much," don't feel so bad. You have plenty of company. "IMiore than in any other historical peri­od," said Pope John Paul ll, "there is a breakdown in the process of handing on moral and religious values between gen­erations." Over the past four decades, religion elasses at Catholic schools have focused on making collages or imparting the gospel of political corrcctnnss. The students, when they become parents, cannot pass on to their children what they never received. But now, help is at hand. • 
In his first encyclical, "Deus Caritas Est (God Is Love)," Pope Benedict XVI includ­ed a reading list which could be a remedi­al study assignment. 
Aftnr allirming the need to build "a just social order in which all receive their share of the world's goods and no longer have to depend on charity," "Deus Caritas Est (DCE)" listed the interventions of "the papal magisterium" in response to the changing "social problems" resulting from industrialization and later develop­ments including "the growth of a global­ized economy." Several great popes have developed this teaching, starting with Pope Leo XIII's "Rerum Novarum" in 1891. Pope Pius XI followed with 

Charles E. Rice 
Right or 
Wrong? 

"Quadragesimo Anno" (1931) and Pope John XXIII with "Mater et Magistra (Mother and Teacher)" (1961 ). Pope Paul VI contributed "Populorum Progressio" (1967) and "Octogesima Adveniens" ( 1971 ), addressing especially the social problems in Latin America. John Paul II left a trilogy of social encyclicals, "Laborem 8xercens" (1981) on the dignity of work, "Sollicitudo Hei Socialis" (1987), and "Centessimus Ann us" (1991) which cautioned against the acceptance of a materialist capitalism as an alternative to the failed prescriptions of Marxism. 
At times the guidelines in these docu­ments have met with indifl'erence or hos­tility from Catholics across the political spectrum, including National Review's adolescent eruption, "Mater Si! Magister No]" in response to John XXIII's Mater et Magistra. 
Even a Notre Dame student would find it a daunting task to plow through all those papal teachings. Benedict, however, comes to the rescue by recommending the "Compendium of the Social Doctrine of the Church," published in 2004 by the Pontifical Council on Justice and Peace. In 255 pages of text, with a detailed index, the Compendium synthesizes all those teachings, beginning with the foundation­al principle of the dignity of the person which arises from his creation in the image and likeness of God. From that dig­nity arise the organizing principles of soli­darity and subsidiarity, both of which are stressed in· DCE. The Compendium covers the family, human work, economic life, the political and international communi­ties, the environment and war and peace. 
The Compendium provides a useful overview of the social teachings. But if you want a really short, but excellent, introduction, take a look at "Citizens of the Heavenly City: A Catechism of Catholic Social Teaching", by Dr. Arthur Hippler, director of the Oflice of Justice and Peace of the diocese of LaCrossn, Wisconsin. In 154 pages, including notes, Hippler covers it all in a format suitable for individual or group study. The fore­word, by Most Hev. Raymond L. Burke, now Archbishop of St. Louis, praises the book for its "attention to the totality of the Church's social teaching, beginning with the sources ... and then progressing to a study of the social implications of the love of God and thn love of neighbor." Hippler covers, concisely and accurately, the what and the why of the teachings on family, life, capital punishment, the environment, war and peace, free speech and the com­mon good as well as the just wage and economic justice. 
The social and moral teachings of the Catholic Church provide the only coherent response to the dominant utilitarian cul­ture. If you want to be clear about those teachings, Hippler's book will do it f(>r you. Its format is attractive. It is reliable and easy to read. 
With Benedict's emphasis on the social teachings in DCE and elsewhere, with the convenient Compendium and with the appearance of accurate, reader-friendly books like Hippler's, no one, especially at Notre Dame, has any excuse for igno­rance of the rich and comprehensive social teachings of the Church. So take a look. You might be surprised at what you will find. 
Prof Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
,:l t'u··b•··IDI·.,t·· 'l. t···e···t·t·"·f..
~ 

il ~..•........ .i :. L...•.. U .·•..·..·· ...•....•·.~·· ....•
What are you doing 

"He who does not get fun and enjoyment 
out ofevery day ... needs to reorganize
for spring break? 
his life." 

j t tb· E:·d···t t

1:o . : e tu1 ·or a· 
George M. Adams
Vote by today at 5 p.m. at 
author 
11

'www.ndsmcobserver.com
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
. 

~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Thursday, March 9, 2006 page 11 LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
The social responsibility to vote Democrat 
I liJLmd tho arlidn in Wndnosday's odition of Tho Obsnrver titled "Faith impacts politi­~~al choil~os. lnetuwr says" to be an intnrnsting look at tho politics of tho Catholieism. llownvnr, I take issun with !junior! Matt Smith's comments about tho compatibility of <:atholidsm and Hepublicanism. I lis ease is built on tho stances of the Hopublkan Party on what lw calls "tho live non-negotiable issues of abortion, euthanasia, stem cell rnsnarch. human doning and gay marriago." 
l.ot nw lirst say that I lind the Hnpubliean Party's dnf11nso of life admirable. I bnliove llw work to li1stnr a greater resped for lili1 is crucial and I bolievo that in Demoeratic I'arty thoro is a growing minority who sham those viows. I Iowover, saying that these live issuns arn thn only "non-negotiable" ones in Catholic faith misstates Catholic teaching. 
One placn wlwrP. I takll one major issue with Smith is on gay marriage. What basis is llwrn for gay marriagn bPing non-negotiablo'? Perhaps in discussing gay marriage Smith should wnsider that gay marriage is mentionod four timP.s in lhll Bible, twice in the hook of l.oviticus, which also suggests that livostock should bP. usod as saerilices. Furllwrrnom, gay marriagn is unmentionP.d in tho Gospels. 
llownvnr, as I said beli1m, I rP-sped Smith's emphasis on life. I would only challengp, 
U-WIRE 

Mr. PresidenT 
his party to consider its consistency on lifo. If life is a gift from (;od, how dons he oxplain tho large percentage of Hepublicans who support taking lifo through tho dnath pnnalty'! 
Finally, Smith's views on non-negotiable issuns lhil to mnntion social justice and poaeo. All three of these issues are mentioned on nunwrous occasions in tho Gospels as contra( tonets of Jesus' teaching. In his encyclical "Sollieitudo Hoi Socialis (On Social Concorns)" Pope John Paul II voieed eoneerns about Consnrvativo fiscal poliey. Those issues arn also non-nngotiable, ynt eonsorvative ideology eonlradicts Biblieal and Papal toaching on all throe. 
I challenge rnaders to study the Gospels and doddn if consnrvatives have a monopoly on f~Lith. I do not suggost the Democratic Party is without eontradictions, hut tho Hopublican Party fails in essential ways. 
Michael Folger freshman Zahmllall March I! 
Swimsuit issues 
I know that thorn is a good dna) of lime hPli1re the next prnsidential election, but aflnr a dis1:ussion I had with some friends of mine I bPgan to think of somnone who would make a groat prnsidential eandidal!l. 
Allor tlw rncent ... well, Benjaminlot's say ... loss than com­

Cormack 

plntdy satislildory ... 
group or candidatns and 
East Carolina
prnsidenls wn'vn had ovor 
University

tlw pastli1w ynars, I've 
East Carolinian
bonn thinking it's limo we slartml looking elsewhero for our politidans. With the governator's roeonl run of succoss, and Jnsse Ventura's work as governor of Minn., I hogan to think ofanother mus1·ular individual that has had a big inllu­nnco in Anwrican !if(~. My nomination for prnsi­dnnt is mw Laurnncn Tureaud, also known as I.aurm11:o Tnro-bettor known as the leg­endary Mr. T. 
Now l'vn said bnforn that I don't really follow or undnrsland politks, but I've considowd this sonwwhal snriously and basnd it on the char­artnr Mr. T has portraynd and the m&l Mr. T himsnlf. So lwre an~ my reasons why I think Mr. T would makn a grnat presidfmt: 
I. Ifo grnw up tough. Mr. Tis the eleventh of twelvn childrnn -four sisters and and seven hroth11rs. lin gn~w up in the projecl<> of Chil:ago, Ill. lie playnd collnge football and studind martial arl<>. 
2. 
lin knows how to run tho military. Aft11r leaving collngo, Mr. T was a Military Police olli­cnr in tho U.S. Army. Moaning, nnxt to their supnriors, pnopln in the military had to answer to him. 

3. 
lin apprndal!1s the Arts. For those of you who havn smm thn episode of "Family Guy," yes it is true that Mr. T was a Broadway dancer­in litd hn is the first in his family to do so. This was artnr hn injun~d his knee playing pro foot­ball lilr thn Groen Bay Packers. 

4. 
lin knows how to protect peoplo. Mr. T was a bodyguard to the stars lhr nnarly nine ynars, and has protocted eelobritiP.s like Muhammad Ali, Mkhael Jaekson and Diana Hoss. IIn 1:harged around $3,000 a day and his husinnss cards had this quotP. printed on thom: "Nnxl to God, thorn is no b1~tter protoetor than 1." 


Mr. T boasl<> that hn never lost adient during his work as a bodyguard, saying, "1 got hurt worse growing up in thP. ghetto than working as a bodyguard." 
!i. llo appmdates thn value ofgold. When Mr. T workml as a doorman/bouncer, he would takn jP.welry from disorderly people when he would "show them out." lie did this not fi1r tlw gold, hut as testament to how well he per­lilfnwd his job. At onn point Mr. T's total eollm:­tion of gold rings, ehains, and bracelel<> was worth about $300,000, and it would take n11ar­ly an hour to put all of it on. 
Somn nighl<> Mr. T would sleep in his jewelry, "to s1~n how my ancestors, who wern slaves, li~lt." wnight of his chains nqualing those that his anenstors wem forend to wear. 
Hewnt.ly, however, Mr. T has announcod that he would never wear his chains again, daim­ing that it's an "insult to God." The elli1ets of' Ilurrieane Katrina had mueh to do with this, 
and he also donatlld a groat deal of dothing 
and money to Katrina victims. 

6. 
lie's a warrior in his own right. Apparnntly it was while reading National Geographic that Mr. T first saw the hairstyle which has now boeomo one of his l'amous trademarks. The same hairstyle is sported by African Mandinka warriors. Adopting this style was a powerful statement, in Mr. T's viow, about his African origins. 

7. 
lin's smarter than he looks. Many of you probably romembor Mr. T's role as tough man Sorgoant Bosco "B.A." (short f(>r "bad attitude") Baraeus of' "The A-Team." When asked at a prnss eonlornnee whether he was as stupid as 


B.A. 
Baracus, he said quietly, "It takes a smart guy to play dumb." Speak sof'tly, carry big stick. 

S. 
lie's tough, but merciful: Mr. T has never shown himself' to bo afraid of or unwilling to put a hurt'n on anyone who deserved it, but he's always madn it dear that hll was willing to show merey. Frankly, anybody who would chal­lenge Mr. T is a li10l in my eyes, and Mr. T always pitiod the fool. 


9. 
lie's all about the kids. ll'there was one thing Mr. T stood for more than anything it was standing up for kids -protecting them from drugs and bullies; making sure they had fun, safe plaees to go; making sure they knew what tho right thing to do was and thai they did the right thing; always being there to back up kids when they were facing adults as a great ~~qual­izer. Whether it was in public service announcements, his cartoon show or in his 19S4 rap album titlnd "Mr. T's Commandm~mts," Mr. T was a powerful [{m:e that spoko to children and adults. In some ways Mr. T is still doing his thing with a new twist. lle ean often be seen discussing things and talking about community programs he's involvod in on The Christian Network (TCN). 

10. 
My personal thoughts. It was partially due to Mr. T that I myself novnr got into serious trouble or ever did drugs. Aside from the whole not-wanting-to-disappoint-my-paronts and the fear of health problems and death, thore was always that lingering fear that if I was ever doing something I shouldn't have been doing, Mr. Twas going to break through a wall and boat the tar out of me. I was also afraid he'd be joinod by Sergeant Slaughter and the Mario Brothers whiln riding inside of Optimus Prime, but that's a whole other issue. 


Now some of you are probably still thinking I'm crazy for suggesting Mr. T to be the leader of our country, but who hotter to be a leader than someone that scores of people admirnd as children and someone who eontinues to be a symbol of what's right in this world? I ean just imagine guys like Osama bin Laden running hysterically scared if they knew Mr. T was com­ing after them, especially if they messed with a youth center ancVor didn't drink their milk. 
This column originally appeared in the March 8 edition ofthe Hast Carolinian, the daily publication at Hast Carolina University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
I was out one night recently when I glaneed at my watch and saw it read 9:32. This was great, except it was actually 12:09. Even though my watch would've still boen right Danny twice a day, I Jacobs decided to get a new battery. University of 
But when Maryland you think The about it, some Diamondback things keep time better than even a watch. In my apartment, for example, when "Seinl'eld" starts, everyone knows it's time for dinner. When you son your parents singing along to your favorite new song, you know it's time to lind a favorite newer song. And when winter roaches its nadir (a Prench word meaning "so f'rickin' cold outside even the penguins are wearing parkas"), millions of men know it's time for the Sports Illustrated swimsuit issue. 
Forget FilM, Maxim and The Economist-if I want to see scantily clad women cavorting in exotic locations, I'm going to look at Sports Illustrated's swimsuit issue. My loyalty to the swimsuit issue stems from the fact that I religiously read Sports Illustrated every week. To me, the swimsuit issue is like a bonus in your pay­check or that free sub you get after eating 12. 
Because it would be impossible for everyone to see my swimsuit issue, l decided instead to offer you, dear reader, my play-by-play and analysis of' it. Let's start at the very beginning, which, as we all know from The Sound of Music, is the note that follows "ti." The magazine's cover foa­tured eight supermodols, eight bikini bottoms and zero bikini tops. Pardon my double entendre, but those are the type of ligures you want to see on a magazine cover. 
The first thing in the magazine was an introduction to the first­time swimsuit models. My Hookie of the Year is 18-year-old Brooklyn Decker for two reasons: first, she is an ACC gal, saying she lives for the North Carolina Tar Heels and hates "stuffy and uptight" Duke, and second, her name really is Brooklyn Dneker. Her parents, "Triple" and "Black &,"must be very proud. 
Next, it was off to llollywood, where I had only one question: What is Anne V's last name? "Very Hot"? "Five"? Not only did I inspect her pictures very closely for dues, I also seournd the pho­tos of tlw other llollywood modnls for any lnads. Though my snarch provnd fruitless, I did son model Yesiea positioned in one picture so it appnars thn hnadshots of Dr. Phil and Hyan Snaerost behind her are ogling hnr butt. 
A few pages later, llnidi Klum was wearing paintnd-on bathing suits. Lnt rnn repeat that: llni<li Klum. Bathing suits made of paint. Evnn morn im prnssivo, lleidi posed for tho pictures just thrnn months al"lor giving birth to her second child. I can only hope I look as good thme months al"lnr my seeond prngnaney. . 
Somn of tho picturns inside tlw Tahiti snetion madn mn use my imagination -in ono, I had to prntond Ana Boatriz Barros was wnaring a bikini madn of llownrs. It was easier to do than I thought it would be. Next was Molly Sims in Las Vegas, highlightnd by hnr sporting a $30 million bikini made of diamonds. Not pietumd was her in tho lnssP.r-known, $19.99 cubic zirconium bikini. 
The rnst of tho swimsuit isstw followed the samn pattern of impossibly beautiful women in impossibly exotic: locations wear­ing an impossibly small amount of fabric or their own stratngically placed hands. My favoritn section was with the cover girls, the supermodels who go only by one name: Veronica, Elle, I>aninla and Stacy's Mom, who still has it going on. 
Notn-tho following ending is for remain rnaders: Artnr 19 snc­onds, I linishnd the 2006 Sports lllustratnd swimsuit issun. I IP.arned a valuabln lesson -all those women wnrn ugly. Looks are not nvnrything, and society's glorifying of an unattainable body type only further highlights our country's unhoalthy obsnssion with unlwalthy, Harbin-like girls. Cancel my issun next ynar, please. 
Notn-thn following ending is for main readnrs: After 19 hours, I finished the 2006 Sports lllustratnd swimsuit issue. I learnnd a valuable lesson-I should have majornd in body painting. 
'/his column originally appeared in the March 8 edition of The Diamondback, t.lw daily publication at the lJnitJCm;ily of Maryland. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those (ltlw author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

----------~-~---~-------------------------------­
THE 0 BSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Thursday, March 9, 2006 
DVD REVIEWS 
ABC drama provides healthy dose of addiction 

Cage's latest effort misfires, wins no wars 

By CHRIS McGRADY Assistant Scene Editor 
No need to call the paramedics -that warm feeling in your chest isn't a heart attack. It's the sensation of enjoyment induced by season one of ABC's hit show "Grey's Anatomy." The show, most accu­rately described as a more serious ver­sion of "Scrubs" or a very light-hearted version of "E.R," is currently airing in its second season. 
"Grey's Anatomy" is a play on words of a book titled "Gray's Anatomy," which was originally written by Henry Gray and published in England in 1858 as an anatomical textbook used to educate doctors. This hints at the basis for the show-the struggles of becoming a full­fledged doctor. 
"Grey's Anatomy" stars Ellen Pompeo as Meredith Grey, the well-intentioned and talented daughter of the famous Dr. Ellis Grey. Pompeo may be best remem­bered from her role as Nicole in the col­lege-flick favorite "Old School." After graduating from medical school, Grey is stationed at Seattle Grace Hospital as a medical intern. Joined by an enthusiastic and embattled group of bright-eyed young guns, Grey begins to negotiate the complex task of working in a hospital. 

Pompeo is joined by Dr. Derek Sheppard, a suave, smart and savvy brain surgeon played by Patrick Dempsey. Dempsey's previous works include the HBO production "Iron Jawed Angels" and ABC's "Once and Again," a role that nabbed him an Emmy nomina­tion. Dempsey is an outstanding actor and is one of the most important facets of the character dynamic that creates the complex beauty of "Grey's Anatomy." 
Grey is joined by interns George O'Malley (T.R. Knight), Cristina Yang (Sandra Oh) and Isobel "Izzie" Stevens (Katherine Heigl), all of whom have their own strengths and personal struggles to overcome. O'Malley is the bumbling idiot of the group who can't seem to get any­thing right. Before the first episode ends, O'Malley is nicknamed "007" for his "license to kill" patients on the operating table. Yang is the highly motivated Stanford grad and will do anything to get to the top. Contrastingly, Stevens is a beautiful, kind-hearted and easygoing character, but is shadowed by her taint­ed past. 
Then there is Grey. She is constantly 
second guessing herself and is torn between going with her gut-instinct and what protocol dictates. Grey constantly feels over­shadowed by the legacy of her mother and strug­gles with issues of her identity as a doctor and her desire to stay with the program. Further complicating the matter is Grey's romantic rela­tionship with Sheppard, which began before her career at the hospital. 
The show's biggest strengths lie with the complexities surrounding its charac­ters. Each one possesses a certain num­ber of flaws and a balancing number of strengths. The audience is torn between loving their characters at times and hat­ing them at others. 
Even the most despicable of personas on the show have their moments of endearing sincerity, which begs the viewer to be compelled to tolerate -if not downright be fond of-them. 
Additionally, the plotline is both com­pelling and intricate and rarely feigns on predictable. Although. at times the view­er can foresee what is coming, the event itself is usually delivered in a way that makes it seem slightly unpredictable. 
"Grey's Anatomy" has managed to find a balance between being funny and being serious. While other shows based on medical themes may have the audi­ence in stitches ("Scrubs") and others may make them feel like they're on an IV of morphine ("E.R."), "Grey's Anatomy" has found that sweet spot in between, balancing the right amount of hilarity to keep the audience smiling with just a touch of drama and suspense to make the viewer crave the next episode. 
"Grey's Anatomy" is increasingly gain­ing popularity and rightfully so. It has a stellar cast, outstanding writing and a plot line more addictive than Valium. However, this is one addiction viewers won't need to see a doctor about. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl@nd.edu 
By SEAN SWEANY Scene Critic 
From the very beginning of the film, it is clear that "Lord of War" is no ordi­nary movie. The opening credits depict the life of a bullet, from the manufactur­ing process to its firing from a gun. When Yuri Orlov (Nicolas Cage) begins his monologue immediately after this, there is hope that this Andrew Niccol­directed film will be different and insightful. Unfortunately, neither the film nor the DVD of "Lord of War" lives up to this promise. 
"Lord of War" is to gun running as "Blow," the 2001 film starring Johnny Depp and Penelope Cruz, is to drug dealing. However, where "Blow" works on many levels, this movie is monoto­nous and dull. Cage plays a gun runner who strikes it rich at the end of the Cold War, when many small nations bought up all of the surplus arms from the war. In his business he works with African warlords and competes against a rival arms dealer played by Ian Holm. Throughout, Orlov confronts the morali-
Lord of War 
Widescreen Edition 
Lions Gate 

ty of his profession while simultaneously hiding it from his supermodel wife, Ava Fontaine Orlov (Bridget Moynahan), and an Interpol agent named Valentine (Ethan Hawke). In the end, although his world crumbles around him, Orlov comes to disturbing realizations about the ne.cessity of his job for world order. 
This movie has a multitude of prob­lems. For starters, Cage's acting is very one-dimensional, as usual, and he does voice-over work for much of the movie, limiting any chances for him to actually try to give a performance. The two-hour runtime becomes especially tedious since the scenes are very similar and do not give any new insight to the issues at hand. There are many various subplots, but none is truly developed to any satis­fying resolution. 
In the face of these problems, the sup­porting acting in the film helps carry it along. Strong performances from Moynahan, Holm, Hawke and Jared Leto as Yuri Orlov's brother help make Cage's acting more palatable. On the whole, the writing in the film is quick and witty, but it rambles on and leads to long and ultimately boring scenes. 
Niccol, whose previous efforts include "Gattaca," attempts to make "Lord of War" into a picture that is provocative and powerful, but all of these problems cause the movie to simply flounder along to its conclusion. There are chances for the film to redeem itself along the way, but "Lord of War" does not grasp them and as a result becomes a big mis­fire. 

The two-disc special edition DVD of the movie is nicely packaged and pre­sented. but there is a lack of substance in the way of special features. A "Making Of" featurette is the only worthwhile inclusion. An interactive weapons animation, boring director's commentary and a useless photo album of stills from the movie round out the disappointing special features on the second disc. 
In a technical blunder, during the transfer from film to DVD, a portion of the film was cropped off to create the DVD's smaller aspect ratio. While there is no visual impairment to the film, viewers do not see exactly what the director intended. The distributor of the DVD, Lion's Gate, has not released any media explaining this choice or any future remedies. 
The ugly reality of arms dealers who make modern war possible is the intended subject of "Lord of War." In its progress towards this goal, the movie becomes bogged down by Cage's acting, the story's repetitive nature and a gen­eral inability to relate a coherent mes­sage. The DVD does nothing to help make the experience more enjoyable thanks to its technical glitch and lack of interesting special features. 
Overall, "Lord of War" is a dud of a film that falls into the one viewing and done category. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Thursday, March 9, 2006 
page 13 
CD REVIEW 
The Subways' debut disc shows strong potential 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN 
A.sistant Scene Editor 
"Young for Eternity," tho first album from The Subways, hit tlw shnlvos on Valnntinn's Day this ynar, and while the album itself isn't all about lovn, there is a lot to love about the album itself'. With its minimalist music and swelling, l"atehy choruses, The Subways provo that tlwy are a new band worth watch­ing. 
Thn hand started in llertfordshire, l·:ngland, and moved from rolative obscurity to major success following tlwir win at the Glastonbury Music Festival Unsigned Performers Compntition in 2004. They found even gn~atnr mainstream success with the rnlnase of this debut album. The band was a hit in its native Britain and playnd everything from summer festi­vals to its own sold-out, headlining tour across the U.K. 
While The Subways were relatively 
unknown in the United States, the band reeently crossed the pond in a major way with a gig on "The O.C." The Fox melodrama has bncome known as a launching pad for indio music bands like Death Cab for Cutie and Modest Mouse on their way to mainstream suc­cess, and The Subways have been no exception. Following its performance on "The O.C.," the band will soon per­form on the David Letl!~rman show, which should offer them even greater exposure in the United States. 
The Subways are made up of gui­tarist/lead singer Billy Lunn. his liancee Charlotte Cooper on bass and his broth­er Josh Morgan on drums. Tho band is relatively young -Lunn is 21 and the other two band members are 19 -but their sound is more developed than their ages would suggest. 
"Young for Eternity" is a rollicking mix of pared-down production, punk inl'luences and catchy melodies. The songs move from fast-paced and pounding to calm and melodic, and it is 
difficult at times 



to describe the exact "sound" of
Young for 


The Subways. Their garage­
Eternity 
band feel puts them in the
The Subways 
realm of bands like the White

Sire I London/Rhino 
Stripes and The Strokes: but they manage to put their own unique stamp on their songs.

Recommended tracks: 'Mary,"Oh Yeah/ 'Lines of 
The album opens with "I Want to Hear 

Light' and 'I Want to Hear What You've Got to Say' 
LEGENDS PREVIEW 
Hot Mildren, Brian Klein start spring break on right note 
By ERIN McGINN 
Scene Writer 
Midterms are coming to an end, and spring break is only a couple of days away. Evn11 though things arn winding down around campus, Lngnnds is still oiToring pl!mty of great entertainnwnl. Kicking of'l' the W!H~kend arn llot Mild n~d and .Ioh n KIn in, p11 rform ing tonight lwginning at 10 p.m. 
llot Mildrt~d is a studmtt cover band that has bonn gaining popularity since il first started last spring. This will be its third porformanen at l.ngonds this ynar. Tlwy covc1r songs from tlw '80s and '1J0s, as well as songs that arn on today's rharts, and aro easily rncog­niz11d as student favorites. 
I lot Mildrnd is mach~ up of four mom­bnrs. Snnior Larry Bailny is music, but it still has a lot to offer to the audience. It's easy to relate to their song choices, making them favorites for tho collnge crowd. Tonight, the band will bn playing a high-nnergy mix of songs covering everything from U2 to Tom Petty, even including some Kelly Clarkson. With their excellent covers, the band should continue tho tradition of wowing Notre Dame audiences. 
John Kinin, along with Micki Cascio, wi II follow !lot Mildred as the second act of the evening. Klein is a familiar face for J\coustiCal'e attfmdees, last pnrl'orming at the Best of' J\coustiCal'e on Feb.HJ. Performing a mix of' covers and original songs, Kinin describes his ehoiees as a Jason Mraz-John Mayer hybrid. 
lie is an established performer on campus, having participated in 
J\coustiCafe, 
numerous 

tlw bassist and PomCo produc­bark-up vocal­Legends Concert tions and the ist, snnior Trish annual student Murphy is the Hot Mildred film festival. For lead singer, this event, he is graduatn stu­joined by Cascio,
John Klein & Micki Cascio 
d1111 t Brian in hor Notre Zam poll plays Thursday at 10 p.m. Dame debut, on tho drums and the bongos. grad uat11 Hon Since meeting at
admission is free 
Thompson Hi\ orientation plays thn !dne-this past fall, trir guitar. Although !lot Mildred has Klein and Cascio had ·discussed the only bn!'n around since last spring, possibility of performing together and Bailny and Thorn pson have been play­molding their expertise on guitar and ing togethnr sinen 2003. percussions, respectively. This will be I lot Mildrnd dons not writn thnir own their first performance together ­
What You've Got to Say," a song that begins slowly and simply but gradually shifts to a fast, pounding chorus. It also showcases the fact that Lunn and Cooper share vocal duties, which give many of their songs a kind of "call and answer" feel to them. 
The album moves on the punk-tinged "Holiday" and the commanding "Hock and Holl Queen," which is one of the band's more well-known singles. "Mary" exhibits a more unusual blend of folk and punk than some of the other songs on "Young for Eternity" and boasts an extremely catchy guitar line. The heavy sound of "Somewhere" and "Young for Eternity" contrasts with the languid, calm sound of songs like "Lines of Light" and "She Sun." 
The best songs on the album inelude "Oh Yeah," which opens with pounding drums and swelling guitar but tmnsi­tions into a catchy chorus, aH well as "I Want to Hear What You've Got to Say" and the uniquely catchy "Mary". 
The Subways aro a great new band and show huge potential for future suc­cess. The voices of Lunn and Cooper are better on some songs than on oth­ers, but overall "Young for Etnrnity" is an f~xtremely enjoyable album that dis­plays an intriguing range of musical diversity. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 

minus the rehearsals leading up to this show-and both are excited about this opportunity. 
Klein said that along with covers and original songs, the audience can expeet "a few bad jokes," as he wants to keep the mood of' the night fun and mellow. With the set beginning and ending with Mraz covers, the evening will include songs by other popular artists includ­ing Mayer, Jack Johnson, Jimmy Eat World. The Shins and "happy" Dashboard Confessional, as well as Klein's original work. 
One of Klein's biggest goals to is to introduce to the audinnee unfamiliar songs by familiar artists. In tho spirit of keoping the night fun, he also wants the performance and songs to bn "as un-emo as possible." 
Whether studnnts' interests urn pop­ular hits from the '80s through today, or stylings along the !inns of Mraz, there is something for evnryonn tonight. Sure to gnt spring brnak oil' to a great start, the show promisns a wel­come relief from the rigors of midtnrm week. 
Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, March 9, 2006 
BIG EAST TOURNAMENT 
McNa111ara's last-second three pushes Orange past Cincy 
Rutgers upsets Seton Hall as Donald Copeland puts up 28 points for the Pirates while teammates fall apart 
Associated Press peration shot from near half responded to comments by court that hit the front of the unidentified assistant coaches 
NEW YORK Gerry rim at the buzzer, sealing the in Syracuse-area newspapers McNamara has made plenty of win for Syracuse. that called McNamara overrat­big shots for Syracuse. This one "We had our opportunities ed. might have topped them all. and we didn't take advantage of "Without Gerry McNamara, 
The senior guard drove the them," Bearcats coach Andy we wouldn't have won 10 length or the court and hit a 3-Kennedy said. "When you give a games this year," Boeheim said. pointer with a half-second left, team like Syracuse and you let leading Syracuse to a riveting Gerry McNamara have a win­Rutgers 61, Seton Hall 48 7 4-73 victory over Cincinnati on dow of opportunity, unfortu­The Scarlet Knights extended Wednesday in the first round of nately sometimes you have to coach Gary Waters' career at the Big East tournamenl. The Jive with the feeling we current­Rutgers for at least one more Orange greatly improved their ly have." game. chances of earning an at-large The Orange, who lost their Rutgers won its second NCAA berth. previous three games, will play straight game since Waters 
"I think this. with the situa­top-ranked Connecticut i~ the announced March 1 he would tion we're in and under the cir­second round Thursday. The resign at the end of the season, cumstances, is probably the Huskies (27 -2) earned a first­beating Seton Hall in the open­most important to me right round bye. ing round of the Big East tour­now," McNamara said. "This is McNamara finished with 17 nament on Wednesday night. the most important shot I've points on 6-of-17 shooting, "We're not playing harder hit." including 5-of-8 from 3-point because he's leaving," said 
With the Orange (20-11) trail­range, for ninth-seeded Quincy Douby, who led the ing 73-71 and just more than 6 Syracuse. Terrence Roberts Scarlet Knights with 18 points. seconds to go, McNamara drib­added 16 points and nine We're playing hard because bled through the Cincinnati rebounds, and Darryl Watkins that's what's needed to win." defense and hoisted a one­had 15 points. Rutgers (18-12) will play sec­handed shot between the NBA McNamara helped the Orange ond-ranked Villanova on and college 3-point lines. win a national championship Thursday night. The Wildcats 
Offieial Curtis Shaw immedi­when he hit six 3-pointers (23-3) earned a first-round bye. ately ruled the shot a 3, and the against Kansas in 2003, and "It's going to be a tough play was reviewed and upheld. scored 43 points against BYU in game," said Douby, who led the McNamara was then serenaded an NCAA tournament win the Big East in scoring at 25.1 by chants of "Gerry! Gerry!" by following year. But this shot was points. the Madison Square Garden something else. Douby scored 12 of his points crowd. "Every kid dreams of making in the second half and didn't 
"I wanted to take what I got," a shot," McNamara said. ''I'm make his first field goal until McNamara said. "If I'm going to glad I made it. More important­hitting a pull-up with 3:13 left take a runner, I'm not going to ly, we won the game. That's in the first half. However he did step on the line. I made sure I really all that matters here. We finish with a season-high seven was behind the line." move on, and we need to." assists. doubling." crowd at Madison Square 
Jihad Muhammad took a des-Coach Jim Boeheim angrily "The thing you see from Seton Hall will have to wait Garden was starting to get Douby is that he can do more until Sunday to see whether it behind the Cardinals. than just shoot the basketball," makes the NCAA tournament. Louisville coach Hick Pitino Waters said. "When he'd get the Copeland isn't concerned. had been through this before. double-team, he'd find the open "We feel we built a strong He was the coach at Kentucky man." enough resume," he said. "We when the Wildcats wiped out a 
The 10th-seeded Scarlet finished top seven in our league 31-point second-half deficit to Knights, who have won four of and feel confident with what we beat LSU 99-95 on Feb. 15, their last five games, beat St. accomplished in the regular 1994. John's 82-70 on Sunday to get season." "I told the team at the timeout into the Big East tournament. with 15:35 to go in the game 
Donald Copeland provided the Pittsburgh 61, Louisville 56 that this was exactly the situa­only offense for Seton Hall (18-Pittsburgh's big lead kept tion l was in a few years ago 11), which shot a tournament­shrinking. The coach on the and that we can do it. we can record low 25.4 percent (15-for-other bench had been through come back," Pitino said. "We 
59) from the field. The Pirates this before and he made sure just have to take smart shots, broke Boston College's mark of his players knew that. treat every possession as if the 
27.3 percent against St. John's Carl Krauser scored 19 points game is on the line and we can on March 6, 2002. and No. 15 Pittsburgh, despite win it. I actually did mention 
"It seemed like there was a lid not making a field goal over the that game." on the basket," Seton Hall final 13 1/2 minutes, held on to The result didn't turn out the coach Louis Orr said. beat Louisville Wednesday night same but Louisville did get 
Copeland matched his career in the opening round of the Big within three points twice. high with 28 points, including East tournament. Aaron Gray made three free six 3-pointers. The sixth-seeded Panthers throws for Pitt to get the lead 
Kelly Whitney, the Pirates' (22-6) appeared to be on the back to 13, but the Cardinals second leading scorer at 15.5 way to an easy win, leading 47-weren't done. A 3-pointer by points, hit his only field goal on 22 with 13:40 to play. Louisville freshman Andre McGee got a put-back with 9:55 left in the (18-12), which trailed 39-16 Louisville within 54-47 with game. He finished with three after a horrible first half in its 1:15 to go. 
AP points. first Big East tournament game, When Gray missed two free 
"I give Rutgers some credit," started chipping away. A 16-1 throws with 32 seconds left, Orr said. "They tried to make run got the lead down to 48-38 Taquan Dean hit an NBA-dis­Kelly uncomfortable with the and what was left of the sellout tance 3 to make it 57-54. 


CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web  Two story house completely remod- Just 1 block from campus! For  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
FoR SALE  site:mmmrentals.com Contact:  eled 2003. Ready for immediate occupancy or next school year.  lease, 4 brand new 3 bedroom con­dos ranging from $1500-$2200 per  TICKETS  not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support  
Gary 574-993-2208  011 street parking includes motion  month.  or assistance, please call Sr. M.L.  
3 BDRM RANCH ON JUDAY  or grooms@ourwebspot.net  sensor light for security.  574-243-4554 ext.203.  REO/BLUE OYSTER CULT first 3  Gude, esc at 631-7819. For more  
LAKE .WALK TO CAMPUS.329­ Four individually locked bedrooms,  No utilities included.  rows. OAR. first 3 rows & James  information, see our bi-weekly ad in  
0308  COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINIUMS  central station monitored security  Taylortix.  THE OBSERVER.  
AVAILABLE FOR 06-07  system, six blocks from Notre  1-7 bdrm. homes starting@  Call 272-7233.  
Individuals/Clubs Sell! Love the  SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED- Dame, bus stop in front of house,  $200/student, 24-hr.maint.,free pool  The Carriage House Dining Room is  
Irish Flags Great for Dorms & activi­ ROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY.  surrounded by other  tables, 1st mo. free.  TOP DOLLAR PAID FOR YOUR  now accepting reservations for our  
ties! Contact: 808 943-8524 or  235-7234 FOR MORE DETAIL.  student housing, Laundromat next  Call574-250-7653 or  FOOTBALL SEASON TIX. PLEASE  annual Gala Graduation Event with  
www.ILoveThelrish.com  door, basement available for stor­ visit bluegoldrentals.com  CALL 277-1659.  dinners served Friday, May 19;  
2-3-4 BEDROOMS. Immediate &  age of bicycles, luggage, trunks,  Saturday, May 20 & Sunday, May  
FoR RENT  2006-07. Security,phone included. 315-3215.  etc., new furnace and central air, new kitchen including new stove  3-6 BDRMS. $195/PERSON MO.,AVAIL.NOW,SUMMER,06/07  PERSONAL  21, 2006. Call (574)272-9220.  
ndstudentrentals.com  and refrigerator, large living room  329-0308  The USA should never lose to  
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BEDROOM  515 St.Joe: 7 bdrm,area of student  for TV or entertaining, free trash  Aristaeus, You stole my wife, pre- Canada in baseball. In fact, Uncle  
HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532­ rentals, $1200/mo.  removal.  123 ND Ave. 3-bdrm, 1.5 bath. Call  pare to die. Slowly. Painfully. Soon.  Sam shouldn't lose to the Canucks  
1408  574-250-7653  Call 289-4071 .  574-229-0149.  Orpheus  in anything ... except bear vaiting.  

AROUND THE NATION 
Thursday, March 9, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NHL Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
ttmm  record  OTL  points  
NY Rangers  36-17  8  80  
Philadelphia  34-18  10  78  
New Jersey  32-22  8  12  
NY Islanders  28-29  4  60  
Pittsburgh  14-36  12  40  

Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
tPam rC'cord OTI. points Ottawa 41-14 5 87 Buffalo 39-16 5 83 Montreal 29-23 9 67 Toronto 28-28 5 61 Boston 25-27 10 60 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record OTL points Carolina 43-14 4 90 Tampa Bay 33-25 4 70 Atlanta 29-27 6 64 Florida 23-29 9 55 Washington 21-33 6 48 
Western Conference, Central Division 
tnam n•rord OTL points Detroit 41-15 5 87 Nashville 36-19 1 79 Columbus 24-36 2 50 Chicago 20-32 9 49 St. Louis 21-33 10 46 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
lfHllll rm:ord OTL points Calgary 35-19 7 17 Colorado 35-23 6 76 Vancouver 35-23 5 75 Edmonton 32·21 9 73 Minnesota 30·28 6 66 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
toam rHf:ord OTL points Dallas 41-18 3 85 Los Angeles 35·23 5 75 Anaheim 29-20 12 70 San Jose 28-23 9 65 Phoenix 29·29 4 62 
NCAA Women's Golf 
ttllllll Record 

1 Duke 77·2 2 UCLA 65·11 3 Arizona State 64-11 4 Purdue 58·2 5 usc 76-18 6 Auburn 82·12 7 Pepperdine 75-17 8 Georgia 59·14 9 Arkansas 65-19 10 UNLV 59·20 11 Wake Forest 47-22 12 Vanderbilt 64-32 13 California 63-28 14 Tennessee 43·32 15 Stanford 43-34 16 Arizona 44·44 17 Virginia 68-18 18 Florida 53-24 19 Ohio State 41-29 20 Texas A&M 51·25 21 Oklahoma Stale 39-33 22 long Beach State 68-16 23 Kent State 60-14 24 New Mexico 62-30 25 Washington 15-45 
around the dial 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL Virginia Tech vs. Virginia, 7 p.m. ESPN Northwestern vs. Penn State, 12 p.m. ESPN2 Minnesota vs. Michigan, 2:30 p.m. ESPN2 Purdue vs. Michigan State, 5:05 p.m. ESPN2 
WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC ... 

Associated Press 
PI IOENIX -Adam Stern hit .133 in 36 games for the Boston Hed Sox in an injury-plagued 2005 sea­son. Adam Loewen spent all of last year at Class A Frederick in the Baltimore organization. 
On a brisk Wednesday afternoon, they outshone the Jeters and A-Hods of Team USA, leading Canada to an surprising 8-6 victory in the first round of the inaugural World Baseball Classic. 
"We like to tell everyone we can play baseball, too," Stern said. "We're not just a hockey country." 

Stern hit an inside-the­park homer, drove in four runs and made two sensa­tional catches in center. 
Loewen, a 21-year-old left-hander, gave up three hits and walked three but didn't allow a run in 3 2-3 innings and got the victory. 
"He pitched a heck of a game," U.S. manager Buck Martinez said, "and he showed a lot of composure for a guy that hasn't pitched about A-ball." 
Loewen escaped a bases­loaded jam in the first when Chipper Jones hit into a double play. 
"The team played unbe­lievably behind me," Loewen said. "Stern had 
the game of his life." 

Jason Varitek's 448-foot grand slam helped bring the United States back from an 8-0 deficit, but a Canadian team made up largely of minor leaguers held on. 
"It's a very quiet locker room right now," Martinez said. "I think everybody is feeling like they got kicked in the stomach." 
Chase Utley thought he had given the United Statf~s the lead in the eighth, flip­ping his bat and raising both arms in triumph after he hit a long drive to cen­ter with two on. But Stmn made a leaping catch at the wall ncar the 407-foot sign to end the inning. 
"I thought Chase's ball was gone when hH hit it," Derek Jeter said. "I mean, he crushed that ball. but you've got to hit it pretty good to get it out in that part of the park." 
A crowd of 16,993 at Chase Field alternated between booing America's futility and supportive chants of "U-S-A!" 
The United States (1-1) must boat South Afriea on Friday, when 43-year-old Hoger Clemens starts for the Amnricans, or havn Mexico lose one of its rnmaining games to stay alive in the 1f1·11ation tour­nament. 
IN BRIEF 

Duke, UNC favored in ACC Colorado and Montreal Bradshaw bares all in latest 
tournament trade goalies movie 
GIH~ENSBOIW, N.C. -The DENVEH -Colorado and Montreal NEW YOBK -Pssst. Wanna snn Atlantic Coast Conference tourna­swapped goalies Wednnsday with Jose Terry Bradshaw naked'? ment returns to Tobacco Hoad after Theodore heading to the Avalandw in What's that you say'? Should be a year in Washington, and not mueh nxchange for David Aebischer. good for a laugh, if you don't turn has changed. The swap marks the second timn a into a pillar of salt first? 
Sure, there are 12 teams instead high-prolile goaltender left Montreal That's OK with Bradshaw. As usual, of 11 and a handful of new players for Denver, following Patrkk Hoy's his­ho did it to make you eraek up. figure to leave their mark on the toric move to tho mile-high city during Bradshaw bares all in "Failure to renewal of college basketball's origi­the 1995-96 season. Launch," in which he co-stars with nal confcrenee tournament. Theodore, 29, has a 3.46 goals­Osear-winnnr Kathy Bates as the par­
Yet some things always seem to against average and an .881 save per­ents of a 35-ynar-old man (Matthew stay the same. Duke and North centage this season. Aebischer, 28, has McConaughoy) still living at home. Carolina again are the favorites, a 2.98 goals-against average and a They're reduced to hiring a woman with several other teams scrambling .900 save percentage. (Sarah .Jessica Parknr) to seduce to improve their chances of getting Aebischer, who had a miserable their son and induce him to leave. in the NCM tournament. month of December before turning his "Not that I got a lot to show ofT 
Duke finished first in the regular season around in January, is 25-14-2 here. But I really thought, and I think season despite losing its final two this season. I'm right," Bradshaw says, "you see­games, followed by the surprising Theodore fractured his right heel ing my butt is a shocker. Tar Heels. ACC coach of the year last month while putting salt on the ice "Once I dropped my boxnr shorts Hoy Williams did a masterful job outside his Montreal home. I le plans and exposed myself to the entire guiding his young team to victories to return to hockey in April and the crew, it was kind of refreshing in a in its final seven games and 10 of Avs said they expect him to be 100 way," he says, chortling again. "I was the last 11. percent for the playoffs. like: I can BHEATIIE." 
Thursday, March 9, 2006

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Sutton considering return 
Former Cowboys head coach promises he'll solve alcohol problem 
Associated Press 
TULSA, Okla. -Oklahoma State basketball coach Eddie Sutton, who was involved in a drunken driving traffic acci­dent and will soon undergo a treatment program for alco­holism, said there is a possi­bility he could coach the team next season. 

''I'll just have to see how I feel," Sutton told the Tulsa World Tuesday night in his first interview since the Feb. 10 accident. "It's amazing how many coaches across the country have called me and told me, 'Don't hang it up. Get back out there and coach some more.' I'll talk to our coaches and see how I feel." 
Sutton underwent surgery on Feb. 23 to relieve pain in his back and hip. 

"I still have a little pain, but I think that will soon dis­appear. It's nothing like it was before the surgery," he said. "It's just amazing. When you feel good, your outlook on life is so much different. My doctors had told me that I would feel a lot better after the surgery, so I did expect to feel better. But it's really been amazing how good I feel." 
After being charged with driving under the inf1uence, Sutton announced he was taking an indefinite medical leave of absence and that he has "a problem with alcohol." A test revealed that at the time of the accident, Sutton's blood alcohol level was near­ly three times the legal limit. Nobody was seriously injured, although Sutton suf­fered a cut on his face. He has a prominent, U-shaped scar above his left eyebrow. 
Since the accident, Sean Sutton, Eddie Sutton's son, has been the school's acting 
head coach. He and the Cowboys are in Dallas to pre­pare for Thursday's first round of the Big 12 Tournament. 
Eddie Sutton said he will spend several days with a physical therapist before leaving the state for five weeks of alcohol treatment. 
''I'll be out of commission for a while," he said. 
lie needs three more victo­ries to become only the !ifth major-college coach to record 800 career wins. In spite of being away from the team, Sutton has been credited with OSU's recent victories over Texas, Texas Tech-and Baylor. 
He said he has been over­whelmed by support. 
"That first week [after the accident], I was averaging 100 letters a day. It was unbelievable," he said. "It's almost impossible to answer them all. The fans have been so supportive. It's meant a lot to me." 
MLB 

Puckett wanted organs donated 
Associated Press 
Before he suffered a life-end­ing stroke, Minnesota Twins star Kirby Puckett was happy and upbeat, still had a love for baseball, and was a strong supporter of organ donation, according to his former wife and the woman he planned to marry. 
"I do want people to know that Kirby was a very happy man and that retirement gave him the opportunity to do things he always wanted to do," said Jodi Olson, who had planned to marry Puckett. "He was just ready to live the rest of his life." 
Puckett, 45, died Monday after suffering a devastating stroke a day earlier. 
His former wife, Tonya Puckett, said the Twins Hall of Farner was a believer in organ donation, and officials were evaluating whether that was possible earlier this week. 
"I just know there are eight organs, one of which might be a match for his sister, Jackie," said Tonya Puckett, adding that Jackie, who lives outside Chicago, has kidney disease. 
"I don't know the other organs they have [potentially] found matches for," she said. "It's just amazing. That's how my life with him was. He always made it happen, found a way to let somebody benefit; made some good out of every­thing, even in his death. How can you top that?" 
On Sunday, friends and fans will remember Puckett at a Metrodome memorial service at 7 p.m. Gates will open at 6 p.m., with no reserved seating. The Puckett family will hold a private visitation and memori­al service Sunday afternoon. 
Even in life Kirby Puckett had tried to help others through organ donation. Tonya Puckett said that when former Twin Rod Carew's daughter Michelle needed bone marrow, Kirby went to see if he was a match. 
Kirby Puckett's 12-year baseball career was cut short in 1996 by glaucoma. In recent years, Puckett had become overweight. Still, he remained upbeat, Olson said. 
Olson, who was to marry Kirby Puckett on June 24, said she and Puckett were happy and "entering the next chapter in our lives." 
Olson said Puckett wasn't bitter or reclusive. 
"He certainly didn't give up on baseball. He watched it constantly," she said. 
Olson said Puckett had been working out with a personal trainer at their house in Scottsdale, Ariz., to prepare for the wedding. 
"I know a lot of articles have come out questioning whether his weight was the reason for this," she said. "And his weight had absolutely nothing to do with this." 
"There were no signs, what­soever, that this could hap­pen," she said. "He told me he loved me as soon as he woke up in the morning [Sunday], and it all happened in a split second." 
Olson said she called 911 and rode in the ambulance with Puckett, but was not able to communicate with him. She said he never regained con­sciousness. 
Olson said she wanted peo­ple to know that Puckett loved his children, Catherine and Kirby Jr., and that he had become close to her son, Cameron. She said she was thankful for the support of Tonya Puckett. 
"Tonya has been truly won­derful through this," Olson said. ''I'm very close to his sib­lings. He was very close to my family. Which, sometimes, peo­ple think is uncommon. But it was one big happy family." 
Tonya Puckett said it's been difficult to hear the media rehash the low points in their relationship. 
"I know that I've made peace with Kirby," she said. "I really have. And for me, that came a long time ago. I can tell you that I've never loved a man like I loved him." 
Tonya Puckett said she is pleased that his memorial service will bear the imprint of their teenage children. 

NBA 
Webb puts up enough bricks to build a house 
Former and current NBA players help out Habitat for Humanity 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -Spud Webb, who became famous for his spec­tacular ball-handling skills dur­ing his 12 years in the NBA, was not very comfortable with his hammer-handling skills on Wednesday. 
Sitting on the plywood deck being installed in a Habitat for Humanities house, Webb was not having a lot of success driving in the nails that would hold the subflooring down. 
"I have a newfound respect for people wh9 do all this hard work," Webb said. "From now on 
when I walk "/have a newfound Brown said he was 
through a house respect for people heartbroken about I'll have a lot of the destruction,
who do all this 
respect for what but pleased with went into building hard work." the activity he saw. it... He took it as a Webb was good sign of recov­
Spud Webb 
among a number ery, despite the
former Lakers guard 
of former NBA destruction that 
Lisle, deputy director of the New 
Orleans chapter of Habitat for 
Humanity. 
"If you look at the flood marks 
in this neighborhood they're 
about 18 inches high,"Lisle said. 
"We're building five feet off the 
ground." 
The Lakers and Hornets were 
scheduled to play the first pro­
fessional game in New Orleans 
since the Aug. 29 storm on 
Wednesday night. Players said it 
was unusual to do anything 
besides game preparations on 
the day of the game. They felt 
showing up for the Habitat ses­
sion was worth breaking that 
routine. 
"I love working with Habitat for Humanity," said Hornets cen­-ter P.J. Brown. "Especially in a 
situation like this." 
After driving 
around the city, 

stars and current members of the Hornets and Lakers who spent part of Wednesday working on a Habitat house in the flood~ravaged Ninth Ward. 
Habitat hopes to build between 100 and 200 houses in the city which lost almost 200,000 hous­es in Hurricane Katrina. The three now being worked on in one of the worst flooded areas, are being built above the Federal Emergency Management Agency flood guidelines, said Elizabeth remained. 
NBA commissioner David Stern arrived after spending the morn­ing with city and state officials and accessing the status of the city. 
"There's no doubt the city is making progress," Stern said. 
The Hornets are only sched­uled to play six games in New Orleans next season, but Stern reiterated his promise that the city would get its team back. 
"Yes, there will be an NBA team here," Stern said. 

The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, or fellow students. 
For a nomination form, please visit our website at: 
http://osa.nd.edu 
Nominations are due by Thursday, March 9, 2006. 
Thursday, March 9, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Owners strike last second deal with union 
Agreenzent extends through 2011 season; new revenue-sharing component will cost franchises $850-$900 million 
Associated Press because of the revenue-sharing cut players to get under the cap come down to the 11th hour. situation they aro going into." component, which the union by Saturday. 1t did and perhaps went The rna! debate was betwnnn 
(;H/\PEVINE, Texas-NFL fought for throughout the on­The cap will increase to $109 beyond: Tagliabue said an the owners themselves on the owners worn willing to trade again, off-again talks. The million in 2007, which would agreement was reac:hcd at 6:59 important issu<i of expanded nearly a billion dollars for the money will come from the have been an uncapped year and 59 seconds CST, a seeond revenue sharing. certainty of a salary cap rather learns that make the most in that would have widened the before the deadline to notify the Low-income teams say high­than risk lil'n without one. revenue beyond the television spending gap between teams union. League spokesman Greg revenuo teams should con­
/\nd thny waitc~d until the last money that is already shared. even more. Aiello originally tribute proportionately to the rninutn to do it. Only the top 15 revenun teams "We want announced the deal player pool beeause they ean 
But thn Nl·'l.'s 32 divided own­in each year will be required to teams to get had taken place at earn far morn in nonfootball nrs finally agrond Wednesday pay into that part of the salary additional money 7:35 p.m. after income from things such as cwening to the union's proposal, pool. to re-sign play­"The proposal league officials said advertising and local radio ineluding a rovenue-sharing Now the league's free agency ers, rather than from the union earlinr the 8 p.m. rights. componnnt that will cost own­period. put ofT twice by pro­cutting them," was a mean deadline didn't Under the new deal, tho bot­nrs nnarly a billion dollars over tracted negotiations, will start Tagliabue said. mother." specify what time tom 17 teams in revenue will tho rwxt six ynars. Saturday to give teams addi­The deal was zone. not contribute to the pool, 
Tho dnal will carry the NFL tional limo to get under the put together by Jerry Jones The union didn't whieh will be fundnd with the through tho 20 II soason. Two newly elnvatnd salary cap. seem to care. top live teams contributing the
nine teams who Dallas Cowboys owner low-rnvc~nun tnams, Bull'alo and Tho spending limit for teams began on differ-"This agreement most; the second Jivn less; and Cincinnati. east tho only votns will be $102 million this year, ent sides of the is not about one the third live less than tlwm. against. $7.5 million morn than it would revenue debate, side winning or los­Still, two of the lowest-rnv­Commissionnr Paul Tagliabun have benn without a deal, and including such ing," Gene Upshaw, onuo tc~ams votnd "no." said $H50 million to $900 mil­20 percnnt higher than the high-revenue tnams as New tho executive director of tho "I didn't. understand it," said lion in players' salary will bn 2005 figure of $85.5 million. England and Dallas. NFL Players /\ssodation said in Buffalo's Halph Wilson. "It is a addPd ovnr tlw life of the dnal Still, somo teams may have to "We were willing to make a statement. "Ultimately, it is very eomplieated issue and I some sacrifices to get this thing about what is best for tho play­didn't bnlievn we should be done," said Dallas owner Jerry ers, the owners and tho fans of rushing to vote in 45 minutes. Jones, the most vocal opponent the National Football Leagun. I'm not a dropout ... or maybo I of revenue sharing. "The pro­/\s caretakers of the game we am. I didn't understand it." posal from thn union was a have acted in the manner the That 45 minutes followed a mean mother." founders intended. serins of daylong caucuses and Daniel Snyder of Washington, "Moving forward, this nnw finally eame out of a fusion of Jones' ally among the high-rev­agreement-gives us tho oppor­plans that Tagliabue said was enue teams, was more upbeat. tunity to continue our unpn~r.e­forged by nino teams. "It's really a win-win situa­dented success and growth." 01w was proposnd by tho Nnw tion," he said. Tho deal probably saved a lot York .lots and Nnw Hngland, a /\dded Oakland's ailing AI of veteran playnrs from being seeond by Pittsburgh and Davis, a longtime maverick who released for salary cap reasons. Baltimore. Then .John Mara of was one of Tagliabue's leading Even Brentson Buckner, a tho New York Giants, Pat supporters during this debate: defensive tackle eut last wonk Bowlnn of Donver and Jerry "The whole idea was that no by Carolina, was upbeat. Hichardson of Carolina mnt one was totally dissatisfied. Wr: "It's also good /.'or the guys with Tagliabun and put. tho had to have labor peace. That's like me because now somebody ideas togntlwr. why I came all the way hero. I has a little extra money and Jonns and Arthur Blank of don't make many or those trips thoy can go al'tnr a vetnran who Atlanta eontributnd a lit.tiP anymore." might have gotten squeezed out more, and t.lwn Pittsburgh's The agreement comos al'tor a in this," Buckner said. ''I'm sure Dan Hooney, whose son /\rt was week of on-again, off-again the veteran minimum is going involved in t.hn Pittsburgh plan. nngotiations, culminating in a to go up, so guys likn me can go joined with Atlanta gnnera I two-day owners meeting. out and get a one-year sumo­manager Hieh Mr.Kay for addi­Tagliabue predicted it would where and feel good about the tional touches. 

NBA 
Superdom_e sells out in Hornets' return to Nevv Orleans 
AssnciatcJ Press in talking about Katrina. They loft talking about Kobn. NHW Olli.I·:/\NS-They eame Kobe Bryant seorod 1H of his 
ECDC 2006-07 Registration 
The Early Childhood Development Center at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame (ECDC) is currently registering for the 2006 Summer program and the 2006-07 School Year. 
Registration Due Dates: 2/15/06 2006-07 Kindergarten Registration 3/1/06 2006 Summer Program 4/3/06 2006-07 School Year For more information please call ECDC-SMC: 284-4693 or ECDC-ND: 631-3344. 


.' 
•• 
40 points in the fourth quarter as tho Los Angeles Lakers boat the New Orleans Hornets 113­107 Wednesday night, disap­pointing tho standing room erowd that put aside its Hurricane Katrina problems for a night of' dwering on its team. 
"It was great, just the wrong nnding," said Tom David, who took the night off l'rom working on his parents' lloodod house to attend the game. "/\ little touch of' normaley." 
It was the first professional sporting event in New Orleans since the Aug. 29 storm destroyed mueh of the dty, scat­tered residents across the United States and sent the llornets to Oklahoma City for the season. 
"It was a big game for us. It was a big game for both teams," Bryant said. "We W!WO 


fortunato to eome away with a win tonight." 
Hornets owner GfHJrgo Shinn had worrind about tho city's ability to supply a crowd l'or tho game -tho first of throe to be played in New Orleans this sna­son. Only an estimated 18'),000 of the city's roughly 465,000 pro-Katrina residents havn returned. But the game was a sellout, with 17,744 people jammed in and the /\rena's $10 million restoration ready for the crowd and the game. 
"It's a sellout, which sends a signal around the country that New Orloans is coming back," Shinn said. 
Fans arrived early and happy, congregating outside well before tip-off and forming a line that ran down the block to get in. 
"It feels wonderful to be hern," said Betty Parker. "We had to drive in from Baton llougo l'or it, but it's still our hometown toam." 
The llornets will play 35 games in Oklahoma City noxt season and six in Nnw Orleans, but both Shinn and NB/\ com­missioner David Stnrn repeated assurances that they planned litr the team to roturn to New Orleans in 2007. 
"This is incredibly important." Gov. Kathln11n Blanco said as shn watehnd the game. "It's not just a ganw. It's a rnal symbol of' our ability to rostorn and rmww our­solves and eonw back strong." 
Thn Laknrs couldn't quint tho crowd oven when thny took a I 0­point load in tho first half' and lod 58-52 at hall'timP. 
"Thny gavo us ovnrything thny had from start to finish," llorrwts cnnt.or P..J. Brown said of' tlw fans. "You could li~nl thn energy from jump ball." 
Tho llornots opnnnd tho third quartnr with a 15-H run to tako tho load 67-66 on David West's 20-l'ootjumpm with 5:19 lnft. 
Los Angelos trailed H7-83 with 
9:33 loft in the ganw, but ralliml behind Bryant, who also hit 14 of 16 frPP throws. 
"lie's a grnat playnr and hn made sonw dil'l'kult shots for thom," llorrwts guard SptHHly Claxton said. 
llornnts forward Desmond Mason's layup with :~: 16 left tim( it at 97. But Bryant's 3-pointcw at 
2:19 put tho l.aknrs ahead 100­97 and tlw llonwts could nnvcw eatd1 up. 
Lamar Odom srornd I H points and grabbNl 17 rnhounds for Los Angnlns, Smush Parker had 16 points and Sasha Vujadr. had 10. 
Wnst lod thn llorrwt.s with 25 points, Chris Paul and Claxton naeh scorc~d 22 and Aaron Williams addc'd I 0. Paul also had I 0 n~bounds. 
page 18 Thursday, March 9, 2006
The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 

Selig vvithholds opinion on Bonds 
Giants' slugger Barry Bonds coming under fire, releases statement 
Associated Press 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -Bud Selig wants to read the book before making any decisions about Barry Bonds. 
On a day when Bonds was in California for a child custody hearing, baseball kept buzzing about him Wednesday -specifi­cally, about an upcoming book that describes in vivid detail the slugger's alleged steroids use. 
Selig has no plans to meet with the San Francisco star. Instead, the commissioner will wait. 
"I will review all the material that's relative in every way," he said. "Obviously, we've only seen parts of things. 
"The book itself doesn't come out until the end of the month," he said in Phoenix at the World Baseball Classic game between Canada and the United States. "But we will review everything there is to look at and at some appropriate time I'll have fur­ther comment, but I don't have any further comment at this point." 



The Giants responded to Selig's comments by saying they would cooperate fully with the commissioner. 
"The Giants fully support and will assist with commissioner Bud Selig's review of the circum­stances surrounding the recent published report about Barry Bonds," the team said in a state­ment. 
Bonds, who has repeatedly denied using performance­enhancing drugs, posted a note on his Web site thanking fans for their support without mentioning the newest allegations. His lawyer, meanwhile, questioned the book's credibility. 
All around baseball, Bonds was topic No.1. 
I 
IZZa 

TRY OUR NEW 
12 11 

VALUE CHEESE PIZZA 
Only $4.99 
($1.00 for each additional topping.) 
Call 631-2924 for fast free delivery Delivery hours: 6pm-1 am 
Boston pitcher David Wells said Bonds should "be a man and come out and say that he did it" if he used steroids. Wells said Bonds "probably" used them. 
"If you're guilty and you got caught, come clean. I think you can get a lot more respect from people than [by] lying," Wells said. 
Roger Clemens offered another opinion. 
"I worry more about the man's health than I do about him hit­ting home runs or whatever this witch hunt we're on," the Team USA ace said. 
"I think he got hammered pret­ty good last year, and it seems to be happening again this year. I don't know if it's going to change anything," he said. 
Yankees manager Joe Torre said Bonds' Hall of Fame status was up to individual voters. He said the overall steroids scandal had given the sport "a black eye" and watered down the home run marks. 
Receive a $.99 2 liter Coke product with the purchase of a 12" Sbarro Value Pizza. 
Receive a Free 2 liter Coke product with the purchase of an 18" pizza. 
No coupon necessary. Offers good until 5/12/06. 


Not Valid with otr1er offers or promotions. 



Add'l Toppings 
$1.25 Each 
Umhed thYI(t off~r. Prke~, tm:. deli·..:ery ar~M & f.ha.rges may vary by Joc~tkm. Ex<:huJe5 other offr~r5. Good ~t pyrtk!~">-"lting lo~:atkm'> o~!v. 



LARGE PIZ 

Cheese & 1 Topping 
FREE DELIVERY ON CAMPUS! 


52750 IN 933 
(N. of Cleveland Rd. ­Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's) 

• 

02006 Marco's Franchi~ing, llC 483ht.06 

Pizza 



.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~·--------­
Thursday, March 9, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Sharp shooting effort vaults Musketeers over Minute111en 
Antywane Robinson leads Temple in rout of Rhode Island as Owls tack up season-high 13 3-pointers in revenge win 
Associated l'rcss fourth straight year, ending a 20 in the game. snason of inconsistency. James Freshman point guard .Johnny 
CINCINNATI Stanley Life led the Minutemen with 25 Wolf, who became the starter Burrnll scornd 22 points points, and Stephane Lasme when senior Dedrick Finn was Wndrwsday, loading a long­added 20. kicked on· the team Feb. 22 for range shooting attack that car­Tho downtown arena, located violating school policy, hit a pair rind Xavior to a 75-MJ victory a 20-minutn drivn from Xavier's of 3's from behind tho NB/\ are ovnr Massac!wsntts in Uw lirst eampus, was roughly half-full during the run that. put Xavier round of' tlw /\tlantie 10 tourna­for thn evening game. The ahead to stay. mont. Musketeers tnehnically were the Xavier has been forced to rely 
Xavinr () H-1 0) went 10-ol'-18 visiting tnam, wearing their on its outside shooters since from behind the are, scoring road blun uniforms, because forward Brian Thornton, the easily ovor tho ~~onf'nrence's UMass had the better seed. team's leading scorer and stinginst :{-point d!d'ense. Xavier got the crowd into the rebounder, broke his ankle on Burrell lod thn way, going 3-of-game and pulled ahead by 14 Feb. 11. Loss than two weeks 5 f'rom behind thn are in a bal­points in tlw first half. UMass later, forward .Justin Doellman ann~d ommsn that f'oaturod live never got doser than live points broke two bones in his shooting playnrs in doublo liguros. the rest of the way. hand. 
Tlw Musketonrs wi II play Xavinr hit three consecutive As a result, Xavier finished Charlottn, tlw tournamnnt's No. 3-pointnrs to spark a deeisive the regular season in a 3-4 2 semi, on Thursday. Thoy had 21-4 first-half run that featured slump that ineluded a 65-56 a 78-(J5 victory at Charlotll~ on nine points by Burrell. Xavier loss at Massachusetts on .Jan. 14, bnl'on~ injurins sapped took advantage of sloppy play Saturday. The Musketeers fadnd t.hnir· linnup. and listln~ perimeter defense in that one, failing to make a UMass (I :~-I !i) lost its opening by the Minutnmon, who had 12 field goal in the final 8 minutes. 
ganw in tho tournanwnt f'or tho turnovers in the first half and Massachusetts eoaeh Travis Ford worried about his team's puzzling inconsistency heading into the remateh -only one three-game winning streak all season. On Wednesday, the Minutemen were out of sorts against a team they'd beaten only four days earlier. 
Life got the Minutem!m rolling early in the second hall' by hit­ting a 3 and, seconds later, stealing a crosscourt pass for a Mark Tyndale addnd 19 points streak. fastbreak dunk Uwt eut ilm lead and Dustin Salisbery seorod I !i The loss matclwd Hhodn to 35-29. Xavier quickly ended to lead Temple (16-13) into a Island's 74-45 loss to Pittsburgh the eorm~baek by hitting three second-round matehup in I981, tho Hams' first season consecutive 3's in a 13-3 spurt, Thursday against top-seeded in the tournanwnt, as the worst the first of them by Burrell. and No. 6 George Washington. /\-10 Tournanwnt loss in school 
UMass made a late run, cut­The Owls ended the regular history. ting it to 61-56 on consecutive season with a three-game losing ~ardy Collins, Tmnplo's load­3's by Jeff Viggiano and Life. streak. ing scorer with an avnrago of Doellman put Xavier back in Robinson, who scored 14 17.1 points pN game, was limit­control by hitting a 3-pointer, points in Temple's loss at Hhode ed to a season-low six points. then getting a steal and passing Island on March 1, made 11 lie had 1 0 assists. to Burrell for a fastbreak layup. points in the first half as the 
Doellman, playing with a Owls opened a 1<)-point lead SMU 61, Rice 59 brace on the right hand, went with 7:31 left. lie thon hit two Devon Pearson and l>onatas 4-of-11 from the field for 12 straight 3-pointors during a 21-Haekauskas seornd 1!i points points. 0 run that gave Temple a 63-33 eaeh to lead SMU to a victory 
lead midway through the sec­over Hien in tho oponing round Temple 7 4, Rhode Island 45 ond half. of the Confornnen US/\ tourna­
Antywanc Hobinson seored 23 Tyndale capped tho run with ment Wnd1H1sday. points, one shy of his career back-to-baek dunks. Tho Mustangs (13-15) will high, and Temple made a sea­Will Daniel and Jimmy Baron face No. 24 U/\B, the tourna­son-high 13 3-pointers in boat­each seored 12 points to lead nwnt's No. 2 send, on Thursday. ing Hhode Island Wednesday in the Hams (14-14), who won Bryan llopkins, SMU's h~ading the first round of the /\tlantie-their last two regular-snason seoror, was held seon~lnss for 1 0 Tournament. games after a four-game losing tho first time this season artnr 
missing all snvnn of his shots, but ho grabbod a soason-high 10 rebounds and had six assists. 
Morris Almond, a <:-US/\ first tnam all-eonfnrnnen snloetion, lnd 
tho Bien ( 12-H>) with 28 poinLo.; on 12-of-17 shooting and hit thrnn of his four shots ouLo.;ido thn arc. I lis 3-pointnr with 1.2 s1~eonds lort 
LOOKING FOR AN EXCITING JOB? 
GOOD. BECAUSE RED BULL IS 
eut the SMU load to Uw linal two­point margin. .I.H. Harrison addPd 13 for Owls.
LOOKING FOR ASTUDENT BRAND 
SMU lml throughout tlw second half, but never by mon• than six poinLo.;. 
The two tnams wnrn timl at 46

MANAGER ON YOUR CAMPUS! 
when tho Hien's Cory Prliognr eonnoctod for his only points of tho game on a 3-pointer with 
f 
' .~·· 

6:26 loft in tho game. l'oarson 



helped the Mustangs pull away down tho stretch with a strmtk ol' 8 points. 
SMU jumped out to an early lead thanks to Ha1~kauskas, who scored 6 of tho Mustang's lirst S poinlo.;. But SMU wont morn than five minutes without scoring, allowing tho Owls to seoro 10 straight poinL'i. 
SMU shot 50 porcnnt in tho lirst 

half, but was hampon~d by 13
To find out more and to apply go to www.redbullu.com or text the word SBM to 72855 
turnovers, loading to 13 Hieo 
poinl'i. The Mustangs mmmittml 
21 turnovers in tlw ganw. 

----------------------------------------------------. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 9, 2006 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Tournament committee faced with tough task 
Chairman says "23 or 24' teams have already earned at-large bids, other 10 slots will be decided this weekend 
''Thank You Bookstore Basketball!'' 
From the Notre Dame Jumphall Basketball Programme 
Last sutntner, over 400 boys and girls throughout Jamaica took part in a series of free
Providing the • + 

children ofJamaica + + 
basketball can1ps run by Notre Dan1e alutnni. the opportunity to learn+ self-esteem, teamwork, • • N0rie ofithis would ~ave :11e¢n possible 
j ~ . ' v ' t " . ' . -~·· dedication. • without Bookstore Basketball's support. 
• 
•
sportsmanship, • 

~· '< .•. t. 
camaraderie, and the • A pottiop, of each ,teatn's:eP. try fee 
~ ' '

•
fundamentals of • is donated to supporting the basketball. • 
Notre Dan1e Jtunpball Basketball Progran1n1e . 
·~ ... 1 just by sig11ing Y,p,fo:tjcBookstore, your
·p .
JUMP 

tean1's in1pact will go well beyond •• your in1probable and rnagical run to •• •• the Final 32. It will rnake a kid's 
• surnrner. Sign up for Bookstore ••• •
• Basketball ... and thanks again . 
• 
Rotte Dame 

ww\v.ndjurnpball.conl •• •Ba1ketball Ptogtamme 

Associated Press 
The NCAA tournament's field of 65 seems to finally be com­ing together. Sort of. 
Four days before the brackets are set, selection committee chairman Craig Littlepage said about two dozen teams are well positioned to receive one of the 34 at-large bids. That is a major change from two weeks ago when Littlepage acknowl­edged there were fewer "locks" than in past years. 
If true, that could help allevi­ate some of the complaints bound to come Sunday night when the field is announced. 
"The last two and a half weeks have helped in many sit­uations," said Littlepage, the athletic director at Virginia. "Hight now, I would say I could come up with 23 or 24 teams that have done enough and that's probably around the average the committee comes up with when we take our first vote on Thursday. I feel pretty comfortable with the teams I would put down on paper." 
But Littlepage has only one vote on the 10-member com­mittee, meaning other opinions could still make this weekend more harried than usual. 
Among the new issues the committee must contend with arc: 
+The unusually high number or "mid-major" teams that have better HPI ratings than those in the traditional power confer­ences, even better than peren­nial contenders such as Kansas and Kentucky. 

+The unbalanced schedules in some conferences, particu­larly the 16-team Big East where teams face nine oppo­nents once, three teams twice and avoid three altogether. 
+Sorting through the logjam in conference standings, a phe­nomenon that has created more mediocrity than superior­ity. 
or course, there are also typi­cal problems such as evaluat­ing injuries, determining whether suspended players might be available when the tournament begins next week and deciphering late-season trends. 
Yet in a topsy-turvy season that has helped the profiles of teams such as Gonzaga and George Washington, who are ranked high enough to merit consideration for a No. 1 or No. 2 seed, nothing about this year's process seems easy. 
"I think we've become pretty sophisticated in evaluating the schedules they've played and the resumes they've put togeth­er," Littlepage said. "We've got to come to some conclusions about the rigor of the schedules they've played, home versus road success and trends." 
Instead of reducing the field, though, Littlepage and his com­mittee have been dealing with an expanded group of con­tenders. 
During a dry run last month, Littlepage said the committee realized there were fewer "locks" than normal this year. A similar scenario played out again two weeks ago. 
But late-season surges, col­lapses and conference tourna­ment results have helped win­now the possibilities. Littlepage said beyond the two dozen teams he personally believes are in the tourney, 28 or 29 others are still under consider­ation. 
Thirty-one conference cham­pions will receive automatic bids; the rest of the field will be comprised of 34 at-large teams and the number of contenders will likely drop as conference tournaments play out. 
The Missouri Valley Conference has five good candi­dates to receive an at-large bid -Missouri State, Northern Iowa, Wichita State, Bradley and Creighton. Southern Illinois received the automatic bid by winning the MVC tournament. 
And the Colonial Athletic Association has three teams ­North Carolina-Wilmington, Ilofstra and George Mason ­ranked in the RPI top 30. UNC­Wilmington beat Hofstra in the tournament title game to claim the automatic bid. 

AP Syracuse forward Terrence Roberts dunks in a 74-73 win over Cincinnati Wednesday at the Big East tournament in New York. 
Thursday, March 9, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Keckley 
continued from page 24 
to honn his singlns skills, and has spnnt thn season working his way up the lineup. Spodlieally, hn worked on his li1rehand to improve his overall sLJe<:nss. 
"Our assistant eoach has rnal­ly henn working on changing my fornhand from a dosnd stance to an opnn stanen sincn my freshman year," Kncklny said. ''I'm just now reaping the bmw­fits.... l'vn bnnefitnd drastir.ally from a fnw ynars of' eoaching." 
Kncklny is a nativn of' South BPtHI and graduatnd from St. .Joseph's lligh School, a<:ross the strnnt from Notrn Damn's earn­pus. 
"I was so dosn to homn, but as evoryonn knows Notrn Damn's likn a hubbln, you don't stray away from eampus vnry much," KPI'ki•~Y said. "Owrall, I guess you could say I didn't like Notrn llanw as mueh my l'rnshman ynar as I do now. I've kind of gott1111 ovnr the wlwln "townie" thing and it is nicn to have your parnnts so dose nvnn if' you don't sm~ them v•~ry mueh." 
Although hn loohd at Northwnstnrn and Virginia, Keeklny stayed at Notn~ Damn for snvnral rnasons. 
"I thought that Notrn Dame was thn best fit for mn rogard­ing both tnnnis and academies with the connections and the networking that Notre Dame olli~rs." he said. "It ww; hard to pass up the opportunity." 
At the age of thrnn, Kncklny started to play tnnnis and l'ol­lownd in the footsteps of' his old1w brother, Jnfl'. who played eollngiately at Dayton. 
"My brothnr pieknd up a rac­quet when he was eleven and as a younger brother I wanted to follow everything my brother was doing," Keckley said. "I can say if it wasn't for him I proba­bly wouldn't be playing or 
Associated Press 
4.0 Student Living 
ST. LOUIS -A national cheerleading safety group is calling for the suspension of
At Notre Dame 
certain aerial and towering stunts during this year's col­lege basketball tournaments in response to a cheerleader's 
frightening fall from a 15-foot human pyramid. The injured cheerleader's coach on Wednesday criticized 
(888) 278-5962 
New Look. Better Lifestyle. Still Closest To Campus. 
the action -which essentially 
• 
Walk to Campus 

• 
Covered Parking 

• 
Laundry Facilities On Site 

• 
Wireless Internet Available 


NCAA FOOTBALL 
New facts come to light in rape case 
martial, Navy oflidals said. 
Owens' lawyer, Steven F. Wroble, has prndicted that his elient will bn cloarnd by a mili­tary court. 
The alleged victim testif'ind the assault oeeurrnd aftp,r she had boon out drinking at an Annapolis bar with friends. She said she was examined for rape on .Jan. :n and reported the attaek to criminal investi­gators on Fob. 6. The t<qwd conversation oeeurrml shortly af'tnr. 
Undnr eross-nxamination. tlw woman acknowlndgnd she was vnry drunk on tlw night. of' tlw assault and l.hat her memory of nvonts was spotty. Wlwn dnfnnse attorney Wroble asknd hnr if it was possible that she had consented to sex, she answered, "I supposo." 
Latnr. however, shn said. "I wouldn't delirw it. as eonsnnt if I can't renwmber it happen­ing." 
Still later, she said, "I don't bnlievn I would have eonsnn t­nd." 
Both Owens and the woman are attending elasses at the academy, but ol'lkials say thoy have taken steps to ensurn their paths do not cross. 
Owens guidnd Navy's football team to an H-4 season record that ineludod victories over Air Force and Army and a victory in the Poinsettia Bowl ovnr Colorado Statn. 

looking to put the team ahead of also look up to the other part of themselves.... I think we just his life." CHEERLEADING realized the team's potential for success this year and for years Contact Kate Gales at to come, and realized that in kgales@nd.edu 
National safety group calls for rules changes 

Navy quarterback's alleged victim testifies 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A midship­man who says she was raped by the Naval Academy's start­ing quarterback testif'ind Wednesday that with her help academy invnstigators secretly taped an apparent admission of the assault. 
The woman, who has not been publiely identified, said that she called Lamar Owens on the phone and an invnstiga­tor listened as he told her hn felt distraught about what he had done and considnred killing himself. 
"I didn't do it for that long, you weren't even awake," said the midshipman quoting Owens. 
Owens, a 22-ycar-old snnior from Savannah, Ga., was charged last month under the military code of justice, with raping the female midshipman in her dormitory room on Jan. 
wouldn't be playing at this high order ~o b1;, groat, the team must 
29. of a level." come hrst. 
The alleged victim testified at Keekly said the team concept As a leader, Keckley's team­
the beginning of Owens' Article is important to this ynar's Irish mates also admire him. 
32 hearing at the Washington squad. "I look up to him as a junior, 
Navy Yard. Described by the "The guys are really elosn," he espeeially because he's Mr. 
academy as roughly equivalent said. "We spend a lot of time August lin the Men of Notre 
to a civilian grand jury pro­together, especially in the spring Dame calendar]." said team­
ceeding, the hearing will deter­semester since we're on the mate Santiago Montoya. "l-Ie's 
mine. if there is sufficient evi­road so much. They're a great been playing really well and I 
dence to go ahead with a court-group of guys who are always look up to his tennis skills, but I 
NOW LEASING FOR 2006! 
Mention This Ad And The Application Fee Is FREE! 
Serious injury leads to criticism of certain moves, high pyramids 
'Prices are subject to change 

leading teams to conform to its
Apply Online At 

South Bend, Indiana 46637 guidelines. And squads are 
likely to comply, since confer­
www.campuscribs.net Turtlecreek-IN@aimco.com 
ences could kick cheerleading 
1710 E. Turtle Creek Drive tournaments require cheer­
teams out of games for break­ing the rules. 
"It'd be an unwise move for a coach or others to go against the committee," Jim Lord, the cheerleading group's executive director, said Wednesday. 
On Tuesday, the Missouri Valley Conference barred its cheerleaders from such stunts during its women's basketball tournament, which begins Thursday. The MVC includes Southern Illinois University, whose nationally televised conference title game Sunday came to a halt when cheer­leader Kristi Yamaoka lost her balance, toppled the wrong way off the human pyramid and landed on her head. 
The 18-year-old sophomore had a concussion and cracked vertebra in her neck, but gave a thumbs-up after she was strapped to a backboard and cheered with her arms as her school's band struck up its fight song. She was released Tuesday from a hospital. 
With Yamaoka escaping seri­ous injury, "we dodged a bul­let," Lord said. "We don't want to have another situation liko that." 
SIU's cheerleading coach, Jennifer Graeff, said that while her squad will comply with the restrictions, she ques­tioned their necessity after what she called Yamaoka's "unfortunatn accident" doing a formation she said is routinely done thousands of times a year. 

bars cheerleaders from per­forming the high-flying tricks that many squads have been doing for years -as "devas­tating" and unnecessary. 
Effective immediately, the American Association of Cheerleading Coaches and Administrators recommended college conferences bar basket tosses and high pyramids without a mat. But cheerlead­ers would not likely have time to haul the mats around dur­ing tournament games, mean­ing they would have to omit those routines. 
While the association has no enforcement power, the NCAA, NAIA and other basketball 
Thursday, March 9, 2006 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
that you can make shots when you can't play defense? Do you 
LossFlat 
see any rings on Mavs forward Dirk Nowitzki's fingers? 
continued from page 24

continued from page 24 
When Notre Dame played its flat performance in the 80-72 2-3 zone Wednesday and 
ance today," Georgetown coach loss to Marquette Feb. 25. Georgetown passed the ball to 
John Thompson III said follow­The score doesn't show it. It the foul line, the center Irish 
ing the game. "He made smart hasn't all season. But maybe defender -either Torin 
plays." getting to this national stage Francis, Rick Cornett or Luke 
Irish guard Russell Carter backfired against Notre Dame Zeller -took his first step 
recovered a loose ball on Notre somewhat. Now, criti{;s can back. 
Dame's final chance to tie the question if the Irish even The idea there must be to 
game and was fouled with less belonged here. have the guards up top (Chris 
than nine seconds remaining. Irish coach Mike Brey made Quinn and Colin Falls) force the 
But the junior missed the front no secret at the beginning of ball back out while the big man 
end of a one-and-one, and the season that his team was guards the baseline. Still, while 
Georgetown forward Jeff Green young and inexperienced and that strategy limits Hoyas cen­
grabbed the rebound before that it would struggle. He was ter Roy Hibbert to four points, it 
being fouled. realistic. But up to this point, also allows Bowman to go off 
Green hit the first free throw Brey also was able to portray and steal the game at the end. 
to make it a 4-point game and his team as being good enough A few times, the Georgetown 
missed the second. But with no through the season, just not senior caught the ball at the 
timeouts remaining and trailing getting the breaks. The Irish foul line -his hot spot for the 
by two possessions, Notre Dame used their small margins of game -turned and hesitated 
could not recover. defeat against Big East teams to with no defender in front of 
"They're a very good, very their advantage (i.e. "See who him. Hoyas fans were yelling 
poised basketball team," Irish we can play with?"). "Shoot it! Shoot it!" but 
coach Mike Brey said of hot hand and made it tougher Forward Rick Cornett hit a lay But on Wednesday, everyone Bowman passed the ball out on 
Georgetown following the loss. for Notre Dame to run its up on the offensive end followed in America had a chance to see those occasions, because 
"I thought we gave up second offense through him for the rest by a Quinn lay up off a how it's possible to play bad Georgetown's coaches teach 
shots at key times that really of the game. Georgetown miss to take a 30­basketball and only lose by four. players not to shoot early in the 
hurt us -and we still had a "I got out in transition the first 27 lead into the break. Notre Dame couldn't guard shot clock. 
chance to win." three or four plays of the game," But Georgetown controlled the anybody. Bowman, the Hoyas' best 
The Irish struggled on the Falls said. "They put the clamp tempo in the second half behind That's been their problem all offensive player, probably never 
defensive end, and Georgetown down on defense ... and made it center Roy Hibbert's strong year. That's why Georgetown sees looks that open -or that 
exploited both Notre Dame's difficult to get open looks." presence on the defensive end. guard Brandon Bowman scored early -so he understandably 
man-to-man and zone looks that As the Irish cooled down, the Hibbert grabbed 11 rebounds a season-high 25 points. But the looked confused. 
it rotated into back-and-forth Hoyas made more open shots and added four blocks. Irish always manage to stay That stands in stark contrast 
throughout the game. and cut into Notre Dame's lead. "[Hibbert] is a presence and close. Why? to the faces of Notre Dame's 
Georgetown -which attempted Georgetown went on a 24-13 we need him to continue to be a Because they can shoot, and coaches and players following 
24 3-pointers in the game -run to tie the game with 3:19 plus," Thompson III said. when they're not making shots, the game. They weren't con­
also showed a willingness to remaining in the first half. Irish forward Rob Kurz pro­they keep shooting until they fused. They weren't surprised 
shoot over Notre Dame, and Irish point guard Chris Quinn vided a second half spark for do. or shocked. 
when the Hoyas (41.4 field goal struggled on offense for much of Notre Dame, finishing with 11 That's a talent few teams Because when your defense 
percentage) missed shots, the game, and Notre Dame sub­points on 4-of-9 shooting (3-of-4 have -the ability to come back gives up that many open shots 
strong offensive rebounding sequently had trouble getting from 3-point range) and 11 from any size deficit at any and allows that many second­
bailed them out. open looks. Bowman, a long and rebounds. point in the game and to do it chance opportunities, your 
"I thought the first shot was athletic guard, harassed Quinn Georgetown advances to play quickly (i.e. Notre Dame's 75-74 team can't win. And the Irish­
missing for the most part, but it in the same way that DePaul No. 4-seed Marquette today at 2 loss to Connecticut Feb. 21). though they have smart coach­
was the second shot that hurt guard Sammy Meija did p.m. The winner of that game But that only makes Notre es and players who know that 
us," Brey said. Saturday when he limited Quinn will face the winner of the sec­Dame a dangerous team. That -simply couldn't do anything 
Notre Dame jumped out to an to 11 points in the Irish win. ond-round matchup between doesn't make them a good one. about it. 
11-0 lead early in the first half, Quinn finished with eight No. 1 Connecticut and No. 8 The Irish do deserve credit 
mostly on the back of guard points on 4-of-11 shooting but Syracuse Friday. Syracuse beat for their offensive proficiency The views expressed in this 
Colin Falls. Falls led the Irish added eight assists and five No. 9 Cincinnati Wednesday on and for fighting in every game, column are those ofthe author 
with 21 points on 6-of-12 shoot­rebounds. a Gerry McNamara 3-pointer regardless of how much they and not necessarily those of 
ing (6-of-11 from 3-point range), The Irish responded late in with .5 seconds remaining. are down. The Observer. 
but most of his open looks came the first half with an impressive But what in the name of the Contact Pat Leonard at 
in the first five minutes. two-for-one after Georgetown Contact Bobby Griffin at Dallas Mavericks does it matter pleonard@nd. edu 
Georgetown adjusted to Falls' took its first lead with 1:07 left. rgriffi3@nd.edu 

Dominant 
continued from page 24 
McKinney, Alicia Billings and Caitlin Lucas -the first of her career -put the final score at 20-4. 
Byers had the best game of her short career -scoring five goals and earning four assists in the win. Her nine points gave her the Irish freshman record for points in a game and tied the record for most points in a home game set by Lael O'Shaughnessy in 1998 and Kerry Callahan in 1996. 
Senior Crystie Foote added to the win with three goals and four assists of her own, giving her a total of 38 points in five games this season. Foote's eight points against the Mountain Hawks tied the Notre Dame record for points in a half set by Callahan in 1997. 
But Irish coach Tracy Coyne credited this win to the team as a whole. 
"This game was more about the team as a whole," Coyne said. "The focus was definitely on tactics instead of individual performance." 
Coyne said she believed this goal was accomplished, especial­ly through the play of the Irish defense. 
The Irish topped the Mountain Hawks 26 to 14 on ground balls controlled and managed 17 out of 20 clears. 
Notre Dame won the turnover battle as well, causing 13 turnovers to Lehigh's five, and as a team turned the ball over 12 fewer times than the Mountain Hawks. 
The defense, led by Meaghan Fitzpatrick and Kerry Van Shura, was able to shut down the Lehigh attack, allowing only eight total shots on goal. The Irish goalies, Carol Dixon in the first half and Erin Goodman in the second, were able to prevent a Lehigh comeback. 
Coyne was very proud of the effort put forth by her defense. 
"We had solid pressure throughout the game, starting with forcing turnovers that gave us back the ball," Coyne said. "We pressured them at all lev­els." 
The Irish were able to outplay Lehigh using either fast breaks or working the ball around. Stick control and accurate passing enabled the offense to keep the 


~OMEN's 
Sunday, March 11 vs. James Madison at Noon 
S DAY
•••a
The first 200 fans will receive aNotre Dame Lacrosse glasssponsored by 

~" 

ball out of Lehigh's hands, espe­cially in the second half. 
The Irish were able to move the ball quickly to the attack and from there gained numerous scoring opportunities, scoring five unassisted goals. 
The Irish were able to work on several of the things Coyne said the team needed to improve on, but not all. 
"This team didn't pressure us at the midfield as much as Cornell, and that's one of the things we worked on for this game," Coyne said. Notre Dame beat Cornell 17-15 March 5. 
The Irish will next take the field against James Madison Sunday at noon at the Loftus Center. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 




----------------------------~---------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, March 9, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 

L>AMN, \~E..  \HAlE... C:rOINC::x  "fO  
~\-\ow E. RS  ThE..  o\1-\E-R. 51-\0wE.R  
C.\..O~~D  ON  1\-\E.RE.'S  P..\..WA'i5  
TI-\\S  SIDE.  ONE.  .S\ P...\..L  TI-\P..."fS  
Of  11-\E  DORI"\.  ME.SSE.'b  uP  Ofl­ 

0\-\ I HE.~. \ "JUS\ 
SiA!t-\E..b "11-I\S 
C:t\..OWS"f\C.K AND 11 \/E. <::!0\" A \NHO\...t... 
Pf:>...c. ""-P..(:l E. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 "That's good enough"
1" tomato" 34 Speedy cavalry 
5 Wide difference 
soldiers? 10 Ugly film 
36 Pushes away 14 Self-defense aid 
38 Words before 15 Party leader? pink or red 
16 Sashimi 39 Take off selection 
40 Blackhearted 17 Rest period 
41 Lunchbox 

during a fight? 
staple, informally 19 Red Rose, once 
44 Stun a 20 As it stands Shakespearean forest?
21 One of the guy's 46 Blue hue
23 Clear the tables 48 Put it to
24 High point 49 Big mouth
25 Long, loud complaint 
50 No longer from the 
hurting 

neighborhood? 51 "What a relief!" 28 Boy toy? 53 Brunettes? 29 Docking station 56 Circle dance 30 Moray catcher 57 Bugged 31 Prepared for a 58 Neighbor of an 
proposal Iraqi 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

59 1974 C.I.A.­spoof movie 
60 They may be offensive 
61 Sammy Davis Jr.'s" Can" 
DOWN 1 Announcement after being away 2 "Being and Nothingness" author 3 Sure thing in blackjack 4 A lot of the Beatles' "She Loves You" 5 Like some checks: Abbr. 6 Medical care setup, in brief 7 Prefix with 
pressure 8 Mister, in Rio 9 Kit carrier 
10 Indy 500 advertiser 11 White rollers 12 Flat as a piano? 13 Baton wielder 18 Kit_ (candy bar) 22 Hilarious person 25 Cheat 26 Spare, as a gladiator 27 C.S.A. general 
29 They're found around six­packs 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

studio, 193934 Charlatan's work 42 Pipe types 
55 Plop or plunk 35 Has with 43 Lakeside rental preceder 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
VAREN 
± 
a.mos Tribune Media Services, Inc. AU Rights Reserved. 
VOYEC 
± 
page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

GLUTLE ± 
www.jumble.com

tRAYLEY Now arrange the circled letters to form the wrprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon.IJ I I I 
Answer: A ( 

I I I I JrI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: QUAIL JUDGE PETITE CHALETYesterday's 
Answer: Known to leave when teenagers have their friends over-PEACE AND QUIET 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: James Van Dcr Beck, 29; Freddie Print.e Jr., 30; Aidan Quinn. 47; Lynn Rcdgrave, 63 ­
Happy Birthday: You can put an end to some of the prohlcms that have taken ihcir toll in the past. Letting go will clear your mind so you can proceed with what you do best. A chance to make some money through a property investment is looking positive. Your numbers ure 2, 17, 27, J I. 36, 49 
ARIES (March 21-AI>ri\19): Don'ilook hack--focus on the prcscnl and ihc future. Avoid the people who drag you down. Money matters can be cleared up ami an inveslmenl will pay off'. Discipline will he what counts 10day. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can expect to experience some worries or added responsihilities due to an older friend or relative. Do what must he done without complaining. Lclling the lillie things get to you will only make mallcn, worse. **** GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): You can get the help you need if you arc willing to ask for it. Passion and pleasure should he on your mind and penciled in if at all possihle. Take lime out to enjoy the lhings you like to do aml the people you like to spend time with. *** CANCER (June 21-.July 22): Positive thought will lead to higgcr and hetter things. You can make some personal changes that will make you feel hctter ahoul your own self-image. Don'l let your health suffer due to poor hahits. *** LEO (.July 23-Au~.:. 22): Just when you think you have everything under control you'll he faced with another small hui annoying situation. Book a trip or spend the day at a spa where you can avoid life's little worries. If you can'l he found it will he difficult for others to dump responsihilities in your lap.*** VIRGO (Au~:. 23-Scpt. 22): Keep things out in the open or you may he accused of doing something underhanded. Partnerships will sutTer if you arc smug or continually criticizing. Start making the personal changes necessary to make your life hctlcr. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Expect the unexpected and don't count on things fulling into place. Adaptahility will he required if you want to accomplish anything at all. Work is where your lilcus should he so don't let your emotions come into the picture. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nuv. 21): Take the plunge and do all the things you've hcen putting ofT. Don't hesitate to ask for favors or promote your talcnl. Travel hoth short and long distances willfcad to interesting information and clarification. ***** SAGITTARilJS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Life is simple--it's you who is making it complex today. The more time you spend taking care of husincss and the less time hlaming others or complaining, the hcttcr you will do. Don't gel sucked into an argument that can he avoided. ** CAPRICORN (Bee. 22-.Jan. 19): You can make headway if you concentrate on the joh you've hcen assigned. A partnership will form if you arc willing to give and lake. An opportunity may lead you in a new direction. Don't he afraid to 1ry somclhing totally differenl. *** AQUARHJS (.Jan. 20-Feb. Ill): You can stahilize a partnership if you arc willing to make a few concessions. You must not lei someone dictate whal you can and can't do. Money owed can he collected hut it might put stress on ihc relationship.*** PISCES (l<'cb. 19-Murch 20): A creative idea will lead to some serious cash. You will lind out something interesting ahout someone you once knew. Consider starting over on a project you arc passionate about. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You have a good imagination and a good heart. You stick to your hcliefs and arc not likely to reverse a decision once you've made it. You arc inventive and gravitate to the unusual. 
EugL•nia's Web sites: astnwdvice.comforfun, t•u~:enialast.comfor confidt•ntial consultatitms 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City __________ State ______ Zip_______ 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, March 9, 2006 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Hoyas top Notre Dame 6 7-63 in first round of Big East tournament 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
NEW YOHK -For a school with plenty of tradition, Notre Dame had some of it catch up with the team Wednesday in a 67-63 loss to Georgetown in the first round of the Big East tournament. 
The loss was another Notre Dame defeat in a contest it had a chance to win in the final minutes. The Irish also lost a first round Big East tour­nament game for the fifth time in six years. 
Coming out of a Georgetown 30­second timeout with 43 seconds remaining, the Hoyas ran down the shot clock before guard Brandon Bowman made an athletic left-hand­ed lay up to give Georgetown a 66-63 lead. 
Bowman led Georgetown with a career-high 25 points on 9-of-17 shooting. He also grabbed seven rebounds and four assists in 34 min­utes. 
"Bowman had a special perform-
see LOSS/page 22 

Blacked out 
At left, Georgetown's Jeff Green, right, elevates over Irish center Tarin Francis during Notre Dame's 67-63 loss to the Hoyas. Above, Irish guard Chris Quinn drives to the basket. 
page 24 
Team doesn't show up for game it could have won 
NEW YOHK-Apparently getting to the Big East tournament was enough. 
Notre Dame showed no urgency, made no adjustments and had no chance against Georgetown in the first round Wednesday. And for a team that was in the Sweet 16 four years ago, laying down in New York is just unaccept­able. 
Of course, reaching this point was a suc­cess. The Irish did what most thought they could not -fight through a string of heartbreaking losses to win late and accomplish their preseason goal of playing at the Garden. 
But Notre Dame should be embarrassed. At no point past an 11-0 run to open the game did this team appear on par with its oppo­nent. It was worse than the team's 

Pat Leonard 
Sports Writer 
see FLAT/page 22 

WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Squad destroys Lehigh at Loftus 
Irish top Mountain Hawks 20-4 at home 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Freshman attack Jill Byers scored the first Irish goal just 17 seconds into Wednesday's game against Lehigh. 
Notre Dame (5-0) then went on to score 19 more in a 20-4 blowout of the Mountain Hawks (1-2) at the Loftus Center. 
Notre Dame scored six unan­swered goals to start the con­test, holding visiting Lehigh scoreless for the Iirst 10 min­utes of play. When the Mountain Hawks finally did score, the Irish were able to kill their momentum with 6-0 and 5-0 runs after each of their two first half goals. 
Lehigh's third and fourth goals were the only pair scored consecutively by the Mountain Hawks, but both were scored on a freshman goalie with many substitutes in the game. Goals by Irish reserves Caitlin 
see DOMINANT/page 22 


MEN'S TENNIS 
Hometown hero bursts onto scene 
South Bend native Keckley excels after summer zn Europe 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
He hits hard in doubles and has become a consistent point in singles. 
As the Irish tennis program has its best season in years, Ryan Keckley is having a breakout 
year of his 
.----=c-----, own. "I love to compete, and being on a team who craves that win as much as I do makes 
tennis at Notre Dame worthwhile," l___"""'-'""""--
Keckley said. Keckley "I wouldn't have it any other way." 
Keckley is playing at the No. 4 spot in the singles lineup for Notre Dame and is usually one of the two players paired together in No. 1 doubles, most recently Sheeva Parbhu. 
"I was recruited for doubles specifically," Kecklny said. "In high school, as a junior tennis player, I was significantly better in doubles than I was in singles. This could be because of the style of game I play -I'm more of a serve and volleyer and up in the court ... from the doubles stand­point, this helps tremendously." 
Keekley thrives on what he called "the fast pace, 'in your faee'" style of play that doubles requires. 
"!Irish I coach IBobby Bayliss] always says [doubles play] is a sprint," he said. "There's no time to think of what you're doing wrong or right, you just have to play." 
But after spending some of the summer in Europe, Keckley returned to South Bend prepared 
see KECKLEYIpage 21 

en 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
NCAA MEN'S BBALL 
BASEBALL 

NCAA MEN'S BBALL
NCAA MEN'S BBAlL 
NCAA MEN'S BBALL 
LLI

&: 
Co) 
Xavier 75 
Canada 8 

Rutgers 61
Syracuse 74 
Pittsburgh 61 
z New facts come to 

UMass 66 
USA6 

Cmcinnati 73 
Seton Hall 48 
Louisville 56 
light in the court martial 

The Musketeers 
The Americans fell to 

Gerry McNamara's 3­
The Scarlet Knights 
The Panthers jumped
::5 
of Navy quarterback 

advanced to the second 
their northern neigh-

upset the Pirates to 
pointer with less than 
out to a big lead, then 

=c:s 
Lamar Owens on 

round of the Atlantic 10 
bors in World Baseball 

one second left gave the 
advance to the Big East 
held on to beat the 

ca. !:i cc 
chareges of rape. 

tournament with the 
Classic pool play. 

Orange the win in New 
tournament second 
Cardinals in New York. 

win. 
round.
York. 

en 
page 15
page 19 
page 14
page 21 
page 14 

page 14 




