
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Council to consider amending ordinance 
Student leaders present suggestions to South Bend Common Council 
By MADDIE IlANNA A~smi.n~ Nt•w, Ediwr 
South Bnnd Common Couneil nwrnhPrs said tlwy would consid­Pr ehangns to tlw city's Public Nuisanen OrdinarH~e al'tnr listening to a ran>fully crallc.,-1 statPnHmt on c·on11nunity rPiations dnlivnrnd by six Notrn Damn studnnt govnrn­lllPnt rPprnsnntativns at Monday night's Couneilnweting. 
"I was nxtrnnwly pleased with tlw outmnw," student body prosi­dent Dave Baron said aftnr the nweting. "That was exaetly what I was looking for wlwn I said II hopc~d Coundlnwmbnrs would bnl cmgaging us further." 
Whiln studnnt r11prnsnntativns 

ND la-w student to face DUI charges 
Police say driver admitted to drinking, refused BAC test 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
A"isra111 Nt·ws Ediror 
A sPeoml-ynar Notrn Damn law stwlnnt ww; arrPstnd and charged with opnrating a vnhidn whiln intoxiratnd rnsulting in injury af'tPr a Fc~b. I1) ac:ddnnt in whieh a Notrn Damn senior was injurnd, ollirials said. 
.Jon Sdwnnwnttnr, :m. was driv­ing tlw c:ar that hit Brian Cardih~. 
sec ACCIDENT/page 3 addressed tho strainnd rnlation­ship bntwenn the Notrn Dame and South Bend communities and explained how studnnt govern­ment has addrnssnd the issun, the eore of the presentation was much more controversial, c~entered on perenived problems with the South Bend Public Nuisance Ordinanen. 
Tho ordinance was mmmdod on .July 25, 2005 to allow the City to send tnnants a notice to abate after one violation instead of the prnvious thrno. 
Senate Community Helations committen chair Niek Guzman said while six students received notices to abate and were evicted last semester, "of all the other notices to abate sent to students, there have been no !second! viola­tions." 
That fact suppilrts student gov­ernment's position that this aspect of the ordinance amendment is unnecessary, Guzman said, in that it lines both landlords and tenants after a first oll'ensn but drops the landlord's lines if' he or she evicts tho tenant within 30 days. 
"We feel the spirit of the law and enlbrcnmnnt of the law have been inconsistent," he said. 
Judicial Council president James Leito mentioned an editorial writ­ten by the South Bend Tribune this summer that supported the ordinance and deseribnd it as an el'feetive tool to teach students 
see COUNCIL/page 6 
2007, 2008 Class Councils decided 
Class of 2009 election will advance to run-of!Thursday 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
Candidates in the 2006-07 Class Council Elections expressed varying dngrc~ns ol' exdtnmnnt, disappointment and prolongNI antidpation while !waring nlnd.ion rnsulb 9 p.m. Monday in the Club llnsourc:n Cnnt.nr of l.aFortunn. 
The Sheldon Duti1s-A . .J. Cndeiio­Stnphanin I'PIIigra-Kal.ie Md;uc:kin tickPt I(Jr scmior Class Council gathnrPd 4HH vott~s to del'eat. thn opposing Liz Kozlow-AIPx Frcmch-Laura Knlly-I>anny Chisholm tkknt (407 votes). 
While Dutlls, tlw senior dass prc~sident­eleet, c:ould not quito get tlw words togeth­er to nxpress his nxdtnmnnt, Md;uekin ­Duti~s running matn and senior dass treas­urnr-clleet -said t.hn victors arc1 nxdtPd t.o put "ambitious goals and plans" into motion. 
Their plans indudo dnsignatnd senior sorvir.e projncl'>, a Christmas dinnnr in the 
see ELECTIONS/page 4 

Dorm debate focuses on acadetnic freedotn 
By KATHLEEN McDONNELL 
News Writer 
Ac:adernie frnndom and tl1e role it plays in a Catholic university was the topie of discussion Monday as studnnts and faculty nwmbnrs PngagPd in disrussion in thn basmnPnt of Knenan IIall. 
About 25 studcmts attended to listc~n to and intnract with Mendoza Collegn of Business pro­fpssor Margot O'Brien, thoology prof(~ssor Ilerald Ernst and Film, Tolovision and ThnatPr chair Peter llolland. Each faculty member opened with his or her general thoughts before engaging audi­eneo members in a debato. 
O'Brien spoke of Notre Dame's legal right as an institution to make autonomous decisions. She ­citnd as example a Supreme Court Case that struck down a federal sanetion forcing any university aeeepting public funding to allow military recruitment on campus. 
Notre Damn has a right to speak -or abstain fi·om speaking -at il'> diserntion, she said. Lawyers in the Supreme Court ease argued 
see DEBATE/page 6 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Social, academic life split exatnined 
Members explore distinction between scholarly, student activities 
By MARY KATE MALONE Assisstant News Editor 
The issue of academic frendom at Notrn J>am11 dnnpennd il-; pres­ence in University discussion at Monday's Campus l.ifn Council Meeting, as studcml-;, liu:ulty and stall' squared oil' on thn topic for 
nc;~rly ~5 mi1~t~tc1s: . I hn LouJH~Jl s chscusston c~anw two we.nks after student body 
see CLC/page 4 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, February 28, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Don't Iness vvith Tiger 
Last week, I caught myself watching the Denny's PBA Tour presented by Geico. That's when I realized how des­perate things were. The sports world had reached it<> absolutn nadir. little did I know, March 
Madness would Greg Arbogast come to my rescue a few weeks early. 
Sports Writer 
For those of you who don't know, the Accenture World Golf Championships is either the PGA tour's version of March Madness or its attempt to get viewers to pay attention to their sport at any time other than the four majors. Both defini­tions work. 
Basically, it's a straight rip-off of the NCAA tournament. Sixty-four golfers, four brackets, six wins gets you the title. Now, ofall the matches, I was obviously going to pay the most attention to any involving Tiger Woods. 
His first round opponent: Stephen Ames. Now, I didn't know much about Stephen Ames before this article, so, being an aspiring journalist, I did a little research. 
World Hanking: Tiger Woods, 1; Stephen Ames, 65. 2006 Earnings: Woods, $918,000; Ames, $14,178. Number of ridiculously hot Swedish wives: Woods, l;Ames,O. 
I mean, we're talking about the mis­match ofthe century hnre. Ifwe put this into NCAA terms, it would be equivalent to Northeast Central Arkansas State A&M vs. Duke. 
So Ames did what any logical, obvious­ly overmatched underdog would have done in his situation. I le insulted hi<> opponent. To directly quote the wise Stephen Ames, "Anything can happen. Especially where (Tiger's! hitting the ball." 
Did Ames even realize what he was saying? Did he forget that he was matched up with the Tiger Woods, not only the best golfer of his era, but possi­bly ofall time? To even possibly compre­hend the magnitude of Ames's statement, it was like the coach of tl1e aforemen­tioned Northeast Arkansas team saying he thinks his team will beat Duke because J .J. Reddick will be shooting a lot of 3 pointers. 
By thi<> point, I was captivated. How would the maniacally competitive Tiger Woods, who also happened to own a 21-4 career record in match play, respond to the ... well, challenge offered to him by Ames? 
Responding in his typical fashion, Woods didn't merely defeat Ames, he annihilated him. Woods etched his name yet again into golfs record books by defeating Ames 9 & 8. This was as early as mathematically possible to defeat an opponent in match play and a feat that had never previously been accomplished. 
Asked ifAmes' comments motivated him, Woods responded, "Yes." Asked ifhe cared to elaborate, Woods replied with a smile, "No." Well Stephen, let me elabo­rate for you on Tiger's behalf. After you made those comments, you had about as much chance of winning as Notre Dame down by 1 with 20 seconds to play. 
Before I get carried away, however, I would like to personally thank Stephen Ames. He brightened up the always bor­ing sports month of February, and by cre­ating the PGA tour's own version of a reality tv show, he helped spread the madness of march a few weeks early. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at 
garbogas@nd. edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: DID YOU VOTE IN THE CLASS COUNCIL ELECTIONS, AND WHY? 





Andrew Smith  Aidan Fitzgerald  Marc Mejaki  Sara Loveless  
freshman Dillon  freshman Knott  freshman Knott  sophomore Howard  
"No, I have not voted, to be perfectly honest."  "Yes, I did vote because it's the only effective way to voice my opinion.  "No, because someone has already bought my vote."  "Yes, because it's my responsibility as a good student."  

Distillery to revive 184­proof whiskey 
LONDON -A Scottish distillery said Monday it was reviving a centuries­
. old recipe for whisky so strong that one 17th-cen­tury writer feared more than two spoonfuls could be lethal. Risk-taking whisky con­noisseurs will have to wait, however -the spirit will not be ready for at least 10 years. The Bruichladdich distill­ery on the Isle of Islay, off Scotland's west coast, is producing the quadruple­distilled 184-proof-or 92 percent alcohol -spirit 
TODAY 
a:: 


site http://www.TheCar­Connection.com and more than 2,500 voters cast their ballots during a week of voting that ended this month. Winners were announced Friday. 
In first place was Psycho Path in Traverse City, Mich., followed by Heather Highlands, Pa. 's, Divorce Court in second and Tennessee's Farfrompoopen Road in third. Eisenstein said all the roads were verified, although some are private and hard to find. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
"purely for fun," managing director Mark Reynier said. 
Whisky usually is dis­tilled twice and has an alcohol content of between 40 and 63.5 per cent. 
Poll rates wackiest street names in the country 
LOS ANGELES Farfrompoopen Road, the only road to Constipation Ridge, lost to Divorce Court and Psycho Path, which placed No. 1 in an online poll of the nation's wildest, weirdest and wackiest street names. 
Mitsubishi Motors spon­sored the poll on the Web 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
IJ.I :::1: 
~ 
IJ.I 
3: 
...J 
<C 
(,) 






0 

HIGH 41 35 HIGH HIGH
...I 

LOW 28 28 LOW LOW 
HIGH LOW 
50 30 
40 22 



Will Loftus freshman Dillon  Julie Opet sophomore PW  
"Yes."  "Yes, I did, because I love Sheena."  

IN BRIEF 

A campus and community con­versation about "Understanding Juvenile Justice in South Bend" will take place at 6 p.m. tonight at Robinson Community Learning Center on Eddy Street. 
Jim Towey, Director of the White House Office for Faith­Based and Community Initiatives, will speak about "Compassion for America's Poor: What Happens When God and Government Mix" today at 4 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
The departments of Art, Art History and Design, Film, Television and Theatre and Music are ~ponsoring a Mardi Gras Celebration of the Visual and Performing Arts tonight from 7 to 9 p.m. in the DPAC's Philbin Studio Theatre. Music will be provided by the Notre Dame Brass Band and String Quartet. 
There will be a Jazz Coffeehouse at 8 p.m. Wednesday in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
The Asian American Association will sponsor a "Grotto Walk" on Wednesday. They will meet in front of Bond Hall at 11 p.m. 
The opening meeting of the Diverse Student Leadership Conference will take place in 
"()'Laughlin Auditorium Thursday at 8 p.m. 
AcousticCafe will take place at 10 p.m. Thursday in the LaFortune basement. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


35 37 25 28 
Atlanta 68 I 42 Boston 35 I 19 Chicago 41 I 22 Denver 72 I 34 Houston 76 I 59 Los Angeles 61 1 56 Minneapolis 35 1 16 New York 40 I 23 Philadelphia 45 I 24 Phoenix 79 I 57 Seattle 46 I 39 St. Louis 67 I 44 Tampa 72 147 Washington 47 1 29 
Tuesday, February 28, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group· decides to a"Ward grant 
By LIZ HARTER 
Nt·w' Writl'r 
StudPnt govf'rnlliPilt ol'ficPrs awardPd a co-sponsorship grant to tlw Saint Mary's Sociology Club and d isr.ussnd thn upl'oming Dance Marathon at thn Board of Covnrnar11:n (tl()(;lnwding Monday night. 
l~xecutiw TrPasurnr Jillian Watl'rs prnsnntml the eo-spon­sorship. suhmitll~d by mnm­bnrs of thn Saint Mary's Sociology Club and rnvinwnd hy tlw Studnnt Acadnmic Council !SACL Tfw original proposal rnqunstnd $1,267 to fwlp sponsor livn snniors and !HlP junior planning to attnnd tlw North Cnntral Sodologieal Association Confnrnnen in Indianapolis, Ind. on March 2!i. 
Thn fivn snniors will hn prn­snnting tlu~ir sPnior eomprn­ll!'nsivn projnl'ls at t.lw confnr­nnrn. Watnrs said SAC nwm­hnrs grantnd $(,(>7 to tho applicants. arguing thny had not sought t'nough sourcns for funding. 
"SAC fPil t.lwre wasn't sul'fi­rinnt planning by thn dub or tlw girls who an• going to war­rant giving thPm lthn total amount!," slw said. 
Studnnt llivnrsity Board prnsidPnl and sociology dub mnmlwr Amanda Shropshirn said in past years, student govnrnmnnt has fully fundnd l.lw I'XJWnsPs of tlw confnrnnen 
because attnndens have not 
sought alternative avnnues of 
funding previously. 
"l heard from a couple of diiTernnt girls on SAC that they fnlt tho presentation was very poorly donn and lthatl people w£wn not very niee I in gener­al!." studnnt body president Knflyn Mitros said. 
Hnsidnneo Hall Association 
(HilA) presidont Jackin Wright 
moved to approve SAC's offer 
of $667. of the total $4.478 
remaining in BOG's eo-spon­
sorship accounts, which 
passod. 
F,ollowing tho vote, freshman class president Franeesca Johnson gavo an update on tho Dance Marathon f'undrais­or. Sponsored by tho f'rnshman board and tho HilA. tho event will bonol'it Hiley's Children Hospital in Indianapolis. Johnson said she and other board nwmbers spont hours compiling "dancer packets" to distribute to participants, whieh include liability wavers and donation r·equest forms. 
"I know it is !primarily! in casn someone sprains their ankle, lwn don't want them to sun I." Johnson said in refer­onee to the liability forms. 
Dancers will be asked to porsonalize lntters to family and frionds rnquesting spon­sorship for their 12-hour par­
_tieipation in the April 21 evnnl, Johnson said. Johnson and Wright explainnd tho marathon would 
involvo more than just kneping on your l'eet. Johnson said childrnn from the hospital will be present to share their sto­ries, and guest bands will keep the dancers mwrgized. 
Johnson asked all board members to participate and said sho hoped BOG would do more than just give money to the evnnt. 
"I wantnd BOG to put togl~th­or our own banner because I know we are going to have one from eaeh rnsidenee hall," Johnson said. "Since BOG is funding it. I thought it would be nice to have a BOG ban­ner." 
In other BOG news: 
+ 
Student Activites Board is sponsoring a Spa Day today in the lower level of the Student Centnr from 7 p.m. to 10. Make-up and hair consulta­tions arn being olTered as well as manicures. Sign up sheets are available in the Student Centor Lobby. 

+ 
Student Activities Board president Jackie Write announced tho Chicago-based performance group The Heducod Shakespeare Company will be on campus to pllrform "The Complete Works of William Shakespeare (abridged)" on Sunday at 3 


p.m. in the lower level of the Student Center. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Accident 
continued from page I 

21. in front of' 1631 East South Bend Avemie -tho addrnss of the Linebacker Lounge -that Sunday at 2:30 a.m., according to South Bllnd police reports, said Terry Lanning, a spokesperson li1r the South Bend Police Department. 
The police ollieor ealh~d to the scene lilnd in his rnporl of the inci­dent that when he arrivnd, Cardile was alert and rneeiving attention from trained mndieal personnel, Lanning said. Cardile sustained head injuries and was taken to Memorial Ilospital in South Bond. where he stayod until Feb 22. 
"[Schoenwetterl steppml for­ward and startnd speaking with the pllker," Lanning said. "Tiwy found reason to bo suspidous that he had been drinking, and he admitted he had." 
The olneer askod Sehoenwntter if he would submit to a linld sobri­ety test, but beeausn of indmncnt weather, he in'stnad took the sec­ond-year law student to tho St. .Joseph County .Jail to administer the tost, Lanning said. 
Onee there, according to the polico report. Sehoenwetter refused to submit to the dwmieal blood aleohol content (BAC) test that is admissible as evidnnce in court, Lanning said. 
Jail records confirm Schoenwntter refused to submit to the chmnieal BAC test but docu­ment he was thnn administnred a preliminary breath test (I'BT), Deputy Dawn Burger of' the County Jail said Fob. 24. The PlrC a handhold device, yields results that cannot be used in court but arn still fairly an~uratn. slw said. The legal limit in Indiana f(ll' opnr­aling a vnhidn is a O.OX BAC. SchonnwPltnr blow a 0.10 on the l'lrr: Burger said. 
Tlw poliee rnporl says Sdwnnwnller tlwn was arrnstPd li1r OWl refusal -opPraling whiiP intoxieatnd and mf'using to takn the dwmieal brnath tnst -Lanning said. whih~ Burg~w said tlw county jail rPport stal!~s fw was ehargnd with DUI (driving under tho influnnen) rnsult.ing in injury. lie was arn~stnd at :~:4 7 a.m., Burgm· said. 
Schonnwnttnr lof'1. tho jail at'J:4H 
a.m. on a $500 bond, Burgnr said. I In is sdwdulnd to make his initial court appnarancn to f'aen l'.hargns of' DUI rnsulting in injury at H a.m. Mareh 1:~ in tho trallk and misdn­meanor eourl of' tho St. .Josnph County CourthoUSI\ Burgnr said. 
Cathnrirw Wilton, nwdia n~la­tions dirodor for the St. Josnph County Prosecutor's Ollkn, said Monday that Sdwnnwnttm·'s e<L<;!' is currnntly undnr rovinw hy a deputy prosncutor, meaning tlw ollke eannol comnwnl on possihll' ehargns until tlw rnview is eom­piP!ed. 
Undnr Indiana Codo 9-:~0-!i-4. a pnrson who 1:ausns serious bodily injury to another person whiiP opnrating a motor whido whiln intoxieat1HI commits a felony crime. 
Cardilo did not. rospond to rnquosL-; li1r eomnwnl in tinw lilr publication of' this art.icln. Schonnwnttnr rnf'prn~d Tlw Observer to his attorrwy. Gnorw~ I lorn, who did not rnturn phorw mils Monday seeking comment. 
Contact Karen Langley at klangle1@nd.edu 



Centerfor Sudal Concerns 
Alliance for Catholic Education 
~ : 


Compassion for America's Poor: What Happens When God and Government Mix? 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 28, 2006 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
president Dave Baron created the new Task Force on Programming Standards ­charged with examining how University President Father John Jenkins' recent addresses regarding academic freedom and Catholic character could poten­tially affect events sponsored by the Office of Student Activities. 
"I think there is much rele­vance in what Jenkins said in his speeches ... as to how we go about programming events and how we go about raising issues and raising money as students," Baron said. 
The contentious topic spurred extensive debate as members explored the difference between events sponsored by academic departments and events falling under the umbrella of the Office of Student Activities -and, more broadly, the separation of student life and academic activi­ties. 
"I can speak as a faculty mem­ber ... we don't want people to just come to class and then say 'good that's over,"' history pro­fessor Gail Bederman said. "The idea that there should be a split, especially when you're working on something you don't need a laboratory for -like gender his­tory, social work or theology -is kind of sad." 
Members discussed the differ­ence between events like the Keenan Revue -a dorm spon­sored comedy event -and "The Vagina Monologues," an aca­demic department sponsored event. 
''I'd like to see a distinction made clearly ... a consistent poli­cy between residence life and academic life," student body vice president Lizzi Shappell said. "What are the regulations when working with clubs and organi­zations? !What about] unrecog­nized clubs and organizations? Because right now it seems like from department to department it varies, from men to women it varies, from clubs within [the] student union to unrecognized clubs it varies ... it's a mess right now and to find a clear policy is essential." 

Shappell said her biggest con­cern was how the University will define what is "egregiously against Church teaching." 
"While I see the entertainment value in many campus produc­tions, I think even the Keenan Revue, that trivialized sexual assault and rape when we're criticizing 'The Vagina Monologues' ... was extremely concerning," Shappell said. 
Lewis Hall senator Katie McHugh said she could envision controversial events like "The Vagina Monologues" seeking sponsorship from residence halls next year -perhaps to avoid harsh restrictions. 
"I think this is going to be a big problem. I can see dorms getting together to sponsor ['The Vagina Monologues'] ... I would ask Lewis to sponsor it," McHugh said. "I don't think it's fair to sep­arate academic and student life. The two are equivalent and go together." 
Hall Presidents Council co­chair Lindsey Ney said she was upset that "things that are for entertainment value or residence life are being given more free­dom." 
"People were shocked that -[R­rated horror film] 'Saw 2' was the SUB movie of the week when we're talking about getting rid of 'The Vagina Monologues,"' she said. 
Judicial Council President James Leito agreed that there is a difference between academic events and entertainment pro­ductions. 
"If [the Office of] Student Affairs says a certain dorm event isn't fulfilling [the] mission for positive growth ofthe students ... they should be allowed to say don't do this," Leito said. 
However, if academic depart­ments think an event has aca­demic value "for even one stu­dent," that event should be per­mitted, Leito said. 
Baron asked members if they thought the title of a production influenced the permissibility of it. 
"That's another part of the inconsistency," McHugh said. "[The title, The Keenan Revue'] makes it sounds innocent and okay and then you watch it and [there are] serious things in there that are against Catholic teaching." 
Bederman said productions like "The Vagina Monologues" take "a thing that was hidden and unspeakable and makefsl [it] speakable." 
"To take things that, ifyou will, were in the closet, and bring them out [ ... ] we can talk about them openly and deal with them," Bederman said. 
By changing the titles of pro­ductions like the event formerly known as The Queer Film Festival, she said, "we already conceded that we don't talk about them openly. In some ways, it looks to me like that is the crux of the matter ... " 
Bederman said that the polar­izing issue of sexuality at Notre Dame is a problem for the entire nation. 

"The next step, in some ways, is what is the role of the Catholic university to reach over these gaps?" Bederman said. "Are we best at bridging by going to one side or other? Do we bring them to campus and have discussions? Do we turn [the issues] over to students? ... Notre Dame could play an amazing role in moving beyond these gaps." 
Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs G. David Moss said he does not believe there is only one way to discuss con­tentious issues on campus, adding that the "Monologues" is not necessarily the solitary cata­lyst to stimulate dialogue about sexual violence against women. 
"The reality is, we still have an important issue to talk about," ' Moss said. "We have women here that need to have resources ... in many ways, thinking this play is the only way ... to engage in conversation in violence against women is limited and doesn't do it justice." 
Zahm senator Pat Knapp, who sits on the advisory council on academic and student life, said closing avenues for discussion will not solve the problem. 
"As long as these issues about violence against women and sex are present in the broader socie­tal context, then our mission is to educate Catholic then we should be asking, what is the Catholic teaching?" Knapp said. "How do we prepare Catholics to approach these issues in the con­test of a broader society, not just within the Church." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone@nd.edu 
Elections 
continued from page 1 

press box and a monthly Class of 2007 newsletter, according to the ticket's campaign Web site. 
For junior Class Council, Bridget 
· Keating, Jarrett Lantz, Michelle Zaldana and Michael Cimino secured 415 votes to defeat the Sheena Plamoottil-Paul Robbins­Jordan Gallo-Joe Varchetto ticket (380 votes). 
A run-off election will decide the class of 2009 appointees Thursday, since two· ticket.'> sepa­rated from the rest of the pack in the only Class Council election to present multiple tickets. 
Both tickets that will proceed to the run-off acquired over 300 votes, with the Lulu Meraz-Bob Reish-Janeva Waked-Joey Brown ticket obtaining 365 votes and the Kevin Marvinac-Catherine Martinez-Laura Behr-Colin Heye ticket following with 302 votes. 
These tickets beat out three other tickets, the closest being the George Chamberlain-Ryan Black­Lizzy Montana-Natassia Kwan ticket with 245 votes. 
"The other candidates did an excellent job," said Keating, junior class president-elect. "It was a great competition for both tickets. We've had success working together in the past." 
But the competition is not over for those in the run-off, as sopho­more Class Council presidential candidate Meraz noted. 
"The election is not over, but I am happy with the results and I hope people remember to vote," he said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 
RU]~_NotV! 
MBGR-60210 Bf\UG-3021 0 

This one-credit-hour course will explore issues, ideas and trends likely to affect business and society over the next decade. A series of separate lectures on selected Friday mornings will feature a wide range of experts. business.nd.edu/tenyearshence 
Sevov Revoeufw~ 
Erik Peterson, Senior Vee President, The Center for Strategic and !nternationa: Studies 
7~~~~ ~~~: R~ g~bd~
...Johr1 Hagel, I., Con,.uiLnt and Author 
1"o~ P~ to 1"o~ 7~ 
John Petersen, President, The ,1\rlington institute 
Pubk~1~~~7~:~~B~o~ 
Dr. James uurran, Dean, Rollins 0chool of Public Heaith of Emory u-wersrty 
7~ 7~o~ ~ 7aifh~tUvMe-o~ 7_~aJulS~ 
Harry Attndge, M.A, Pr1.D .. Dean, Yale Umv'E3rsrty Dvw!rty Schoo: . business. nd.edu/tenyearshence · 
. 

"Ten Years Hence" is listed as BAUG-3021 0 and MBGR-6021 0, and is open to all Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate students, and Saint Mary's students. There are no prerequisites to enroll. See your academic advisor or your department chair for additional detail. You are expected to attend all lectures and be prepared to engage speakers. No unexcused absences. This is a "Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory" course. This course requires no textbook purchases, examinations or term papers. Use an add form to register; registration is not available online. 







ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, February 28, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE ()nSERVER'S WlRE SERVlCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Forces capture senior insurgent 
BACIIDAI>. Iraq -Iraqi seeurity f'orees announeod on Monday tho eapture of' a senior al-<)aida in Iraq f'igurn as they sought to dellnet criticism of' tlwir handling of' a surge of' seetarian attacks last week. The U.S. ambassador said tho risk of' civil war is over. 
Violence throughout Iraq killed :~6 pnopln, as fipn:e f'ighting broke out betwnen Iraqi 1:ommandos and insurgnnts southeast of' the capital. But snctarian clashes havn deelinnd sharply sincn tlw bloodletting that followed tlw d1~strtH:tion of' a Shiite shrine, and Baghdad residents retu rnnd to their jobs aftnr thrn1~ days of' a govnrnmnnt-imposed curf'nw. 
Sunni Arab leaders said they were pre­parnd t.o mul Uwir boycott of' tho talks on a nnw governnwnt if' Shiites return mosques snized in rnprisal attacks against Sunnis and mont otlwr unspncifind dnmands. 
U.S. opposes Human Rights Council 
UNITED NATIONS-The United States annourH:ed its opposition to the proposnd nnw 
U.N. llurnan Hights Council on Monday, put­ting tlw U.S. administration on a eollision wursn with many U.N. rnnrnbers, key human rights groups, and a dozen Nobel peace laure­ates. 
U.S. Ambassador John Bolton said tho Unitnd States will vote against the latest pro­posal for tlw council unlnss nngotiations am rnopnnml to addross what it vinws as serious delkiorH:ins, nspecially thn chanen that coun­tries abusing human rights can bncome nwm­bnrs. 
(;IHwral Assembly Prnsidont Jan Eliasson and Sm:rntary-(;erwral Kofi Annan both imli­l:ated thny want to see action on the draft res­olution this wonk and no new negotiations. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Victims' families demand redesign 
NEW YOHK -Families of people killed in tho World Trade Center attack demanded Monday that oflidals rednsign the memorial, saying the currnnt plan is unsafe and disre­spocts victims by placing their names below stront level. 
Poliee and lire union leaders joined vietims' families at ground zero to seek a new design, although construction on the "Heflecting Absm1ce" nwrnorial is set to begin in March. • 
"We're asking that the memorial see the light of day," Pat Lyneh. president of the Patrolrnnn's Bmwvolent Association, told about 150 pnople. 
Thn design, chosen two years ago by a panni of artists, eivie and cultural leaders, and one Sept. 11 family nwmbnr, marks the outlinns or the twin towors with rellecting pools surrounded by thn names of the noarly 3,000 peopln who were killed. 
A trne-lirwd memorial plaza is planned for ahovn ground, but the museum to commemo­ratn the 200 I terrorist attacks and part of the nwmorial wlwrn the names are listed will be as much as 70 feet below street lnvel. 
"It is all wrong in its symbolism," said Hosalnen Tallon, whosn firefighter brothor was killml at the trade center. "I look up to the sky to rnmernber him. I will never go down." 
Tallon also said the underground dosign was a "death trap" for tourists in ease of a lirn or a tnrrorist al.taek. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Time amendment efforts abandoned 
INI>IANAPOI.IS -A lawmaker said Monday that lw likely would abandon em>rl'i this h~gisla­tiw snssion to nwive dnbatn over daylight-s<tv­ing time or time zorws, saying that Gov. Mitch Daniels and Hepuhliean lngislativn leaders opposn thorn. 
Hep. Dave Crooks, !>-Washington, eonsidnrnd olliH·ing anwndrnnnts that would havn allowed a statewidn vote on what time zone Indiana should lm in and whether statnwido obs11rvanee ol' daylight-saving limn -which was narrowly approvmllcL'it session-should bn rnpnaled. 


Memo reveals port security fears 
Weeks-old document reveals concerns about company's terrorist connections 
Associated Press 
WASlliNGTON -Citing broad gaps in U.S. intelli­gnnce, thn Coast Guard cautioned the Bush administration weeks ago that it could not doter­mine whether a United Arab Em iratos-hased eompany seeking a stake in some U.S. port opera­tions might support ter­rorist operations. 
Tho disclosure came during a hearing Monday on l>ubai-owned DP World's plans to take over significant operations at six loading U.S. ports. 
Tho Bush administration said the Coast Guard's eonc11rns were rais11d dur­ing its review of the deal, which it approved .Jan. 17, and that all those ques­tions were resolved. 
The port operations are now handled by London­based Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Co. 
"There are many intelli­genee gaps, concerning the potential for DPW or P&O assets to support ter­rorist operations, that precludes an overall threat assessment" of the potential merger, the unclassified Coast Guard intelligence assessment said. 

"The breadth of the transaetion received the unelassilied version of the Majority Loader Bill Frist, intelligence gaps also proper review, and nation­document at a briefing H-Tenn., told reporters in infer potential unknown al security concerns were, Monday. The Bush admin­Detroit, "I don't think it's threats against a large in fact, addressed," the istration agreed Sunday to necessary to legislate." number of potential vul­Coast Guard said. DP World's request for a Criticism persist11d from nerabilities," the assess­That multi-agency gov­second review of the both Hepublieans and ment said. ernment panel reviews potential seeurity risks Democrats. 
The Coast Guard said foreign purchases of vital related to the deal. "This report suggests the concerns reflected in U.S. assets. Congressional leaders there were signilicant and the document ultimately The report raised ques­who brokered the troubling intelligence wero addressed. In a tions about the security of arrangement for a second gaps," said Collins, It­statement, the Coast the companies' opera­review hoped it would dif­Maine. "That language is Guard said other U.S. tions, the backgrounds of fuse a bipartisan political very troubling to mo." intelligence agencies were people working for the uproar over port security Appearing before tho able to provide answers to companies, and whether and scuttle any push for Collins committee, admin­the questions it raised. other foreign countries legislation this week that istration officials defended 
"The Coast Guard, the influfm<:ed operations that would force sueh an inves­their dm:ision not to trig­intelligence community affect security. tigation and could embar­ger a 45-day review of and the entire CFIUS Sen. Susan Collins, rass President Bush. national soeurity implica­(Committee on Foreign ehairman of the Senate Senators introduced sev­tions or tho business Investments in the United Homeland Seeurity eral bills Monday anyway, transaction following their States) panel believed this Committee, released an even though Senate initial review. 


TAIWAN 

Chen ends Unification Council 
Associated Press 

TAIPEI -Taiwanese President Chen Shui-bian on Monday shut down the eommittee responsible for unifying with rival China, significant­ly denpening tensions with Beijing and defying opinion in Washington. 
After a onn-hour meeting with the National SP.curit.y Couneil, Chon announced he was ending the National Unification Coun<:il and doing away with its guidelines, which commit Taiwan to eventual unification with the mainland. 
"The National Unification Council will eease to function," Chen said. "The National Unification Guidelines will cease to apply." 
Chen's move eame despite dire warnings from Beijing, which on Sunday aecused him of' stoking ten­sions across the volatile Taiwan Strait. 
"The further escalation of Taiwanese independnnee and sneos­sionist activitins, pushed by Chen Shui-bian, will no doubt causp, a seri­ous crisis," said a Chinese govern­mont statement. 
The United States played down Ch11n's deeision to terminate t.hn committee, with State Department spokesman Adam Ereli saying it "has not been abolished. It's been frozen." 
White llouse spokesman Seott MeClellan did not answer direetly when asked at a briefing if the United States eonsidernd Chen's move a violation of promises Taiwan had made earlinr not to c.hangn the status quo. 
Tho United Statns, he said, wnl­cornPs "President Chen's rnal'lirrna­tion of his administration's commit­ment to l:l'oss-Strait pnaee and sta­bility." 
The U.S. govnrnrnent has consis­tnntly opposed any ehang1~ to thn China-Taiwan status quo, fnaring tlw consequences of Jwing drawn into hostilities in the region. 
The United Statns is legally eom­mitted to providing Taiwan tlw means to defend itself against China, and has hintnd it may eomn to its aid if lighting breaks out. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 28, 2006 
"That's the very notion that origi­
year's president and vice presi­the ordinance or provide a 

nated universities in the first place 
dent, respectively, "designates timeframe, she told The

Council
Debate 
-they arise out of happy confi­
the issue as resonating with the Observer after the meeting it 

dence in the harmony between 
continued from page I student body," since the pair was "something we'll be look­
continued from page I 
faith and reason." 
-------------prioritized community relations ing into." 
who "repeatedly" violate disor-during their campaign. "I don't know what we're
allowing military recruitment on All three panelists agreed the 
derly house laws a lesson. The conclusion generated going to do just yet," she said.
campus is a form of speech. In light vast majority of University-spon­
"The key word is 'repeated-multiple compliments for Baron "I don't know how the bill
or the first amendment, the federal sored events do not conflict with 
government could not compel a the maintenance of academic free­
ly,"' Leito said, implying the and the representatives, com­would be amended ... it 
amendment should target fre-ments directed at the students' includes extremely serious
university to speak in such a way. dom. 
quent -not one-time -professionalism and the issues like drug houses."
She said this same freedom exists Ernst said advocates on both 
offenders. Tenants are given a strength of their presentation. Any consideration of changes, 
at Notre Dame. In allowing "The sides aim to maintain the moral 
Vagina Monologues" to take place, integrity of Notre Dame while 
notice to abate without the "Mr. Baron, we are truly Puzzello said, could be a "slow 
O'Brien argued the University was exposing students to a variety of 
opportunity to do so." impressed," Council President process." 
approving such a production ideas and perspectives. The differ­
Off-campus president Matt Timothy Rouse said. "You noti­"It's something we wouldn't 
Wormington said the notice to tied us and prepared well." want to do without a lot of legal 
regardless of intentions. She said a ences exist, he said, in the sides' 
Catholic institution should draw the interpretations of how to present 
abate had failed to become the But Rouse said the Council assistance," she said. 
line as to what is immoral. A biolo­viewpoints contrary to Catholic 
warning he and Baron believed "had some issues" with Notre She noted a decrease in par­
gy professor performing stem cell doctrine. And the disputes, which 
it would be after discussions Dame -namely, "reluctance ties during the fall semester 
research, for example, would not occur infrequently, concern issues 
with Council members and from the administration to and said, "I personally would 
be acceptable, she said. of propriety. 
Assistant City Attorney Ann-assume its responsibility both be interested to see how the 
Holland agreed the University's The portrayal of female sexuality 
Carol Nash this summer. in the area of students and the spring goes ... things like St. 
"[South Bend has] moved neighborhood." Patrick's Day." 
problem exists in its sponsorship of sparked the most heated discussion 
the event, but he interpreted the Monday. Students argued the mes­
away from encouraging reform Rouse, who said the Council's Only one Council member ­
term dillerently. sage of "The Vagina Monologues" 
and open debate, and toward Community Relations commit­Council Member at Large AI 
Holland argued allowing "The is empowering, and Holland said 
evictions," he said. tee would consider student gov-Kirsits -had a more negative 
Vagina Monologues" or the former­while the play is not his favorite, he 
Wormington asked Council ernment's proposal, urged tone. 
Queer Film Festival at Notre Dame feels the women of Notre Dame 
members to consider amending Baron to "keep up that synergy "I admire you]r] coming out 
does not imply advocacy on behalf deserve to present their truth. 
the ordinance in one of two from the young people and go here, but you still have work to 
of the University. Instead, it pro­O'Brien argued the messages on 
ways -either send the notice back to the administration." do," Kirsits said. ''I'm particu­
vides a forum for important discus­sexuality are against those views of 
to abate after the second viola-"Hopefully we can bridge larly disappointed with some 
sion, he said. the University. 
tion, or allow landlords to pass some gaps," Rouse said. fifth year architecture students 
Holland said academic freedom All three panelists concluded by 
their fines on to tenants, thus Ann Puzzello, the 4th District [with trash all over their 
is a privilege and that a university calling for more discussion and 
reducing the pressure to evict Council member who staunchly lawn]," he said. 
is, by definition, a place for open debate. They challenged students 
after one violation. defended the amended ordi-Shappell and Senate 
debate and discussion, he said. to advocate their positions in e­
Baron finished the group's nance last fall, also commended Community Relations commit­
Ernst framed the debate within mails to University President 
presentation by requesting a Baron. tee member Shawn Finlen also 
another perspective. He used his Father John Jenkins. 
modification to the ordinance "First off, I also agree that spoke at the beginning of the 
theology background in discussing As a student questioned Jenkins' 
and explaining his desire to you made community relations meeting. 
the inevitable tension between appeal for input as appeasement, 
cooperate with the Council. a high priority last year," "I think it went well," 
knowing an absolute truth and Holland defended Jenkins' inten­
"We do not come before the Puzzello told Baron. ''I'm Shappell said. "I was pleased at 
broadening horizons at a universi­tions. 
Council to promote or condone impressed with the way you the level of professionalism and 
ty. "I think Jenkins is a man of great 
illegal behavior," he said, behaved, impressed with what pleasantly surprised with the 
"Some may ask, 'if Catholics integrity," Holland said. "We're 
emphasizing the importance of was said tonight ... I'm very [feedback] we received ... it's a 
already know the truth -what's lucky to have him as our president. 
building a better relationship impressed with [student gov­very positive step for my 
the point of a university?'" Ernst This is not a cover for a decision 
with the city -something he ernment's proposed initiatives] administration in opening the 
said. "But seeking always remains. already made. He's willing to hear 
believes is already happening. and am interested in seeing door [to a better relationship 
Jesus Christ is the primordial truth, every argument." 
Baron said the election of stu-how it works to some degree." with the community]." 
but the truth in itself is inex­
dent body vice president Lizzi While Puzzello couldn't pre­
haustible. It cannot be fully com­Contact Kathleen McDonnell at 
Shappell and junior class presi-diet the Council's decision on Contact Maddie Hanna at 
prehended. kmcdonn3@nd.edu 
dent Bill Andrichik as next the proposed modifications to mhannal@nd.edu 

THE 0HSERVER 





USINESS

Tuesday, February 28, 2006 ·page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 

10,841.60 +92.81 
}ones'" 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,573 125 761) 1,523,181,056
-v AMEX 1 ,516.48 +11.14 NASDAQ 2,065.40 
+13,7?~ NYSE 7,361.89 +78.61J s&PSOO 1,211.37 +11.17 
NIKKEI(Tokyo) ll,658.25 +127.10 FTSE IOO(C.ondon) 5,006.80 +37.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ) -7.71 +0.21 37.62 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.47 -0.12 25.25 INTEL CP (INTC) +1.65 +0.39 24.09 YAHOO INC (YHOO) +0.79 +0.25 31.73 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +0.12 +0.02 17.20 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.45 -0.21 46.42 10-YEAR NOTE -0.21 -0.09 42.72 5-YEAR NOTE +0.15 +0.06 39.0 I 3-MONTH BILL +1.44 +0.38 26.75 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.10 51.49 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.40 436.1 0 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.85 88.60 
Excha e Rates 

YEN I 05.2200 EURO 0.7548 POUND 0.5200 
IN BRIEF 
Ball Corp. to buy Alcan assets 
HOOMFIELD, Co.-Paekaging produets sup­plier Ball Corp. said Monday it will purchase thren manufacturing plants, including one in Illinois, and other assets from Alcan Inc. for $1 SO million in cash. 
H. David lloovor, Ball chairman and chief executive oflienr, said the acquisition will com­plmnent tho company's existing operations and oll'er technology opportunities. Tho trans­action is nxpnr.tnd to dose in thn lirst quarter of 2006 pending govnrnnwnt approval. 
Under terms of tlw agroement, Ball will arquirP plastic container-manufacturing plants in Batavia, Ill.; Bellevue, Ohio; and Brampl.on. Ontario; and other assets at a Newark. Calif.. plant and a Neenah, Wis., rest~arch faeility. It said it will operate the locations, whkh employ about 470 peoplo. 
Tho sale, which exdudes Alean's pharma­~~«HJtkal plastic bottlo operations, is part of that company's strategy to focus on units wlwro it has seal!~ and leadership positions, said ChristPI Bories, chid executive ollieer of i\kan Packaging. 
Columbian trade negotiations end 
Wi\SIIINGTON -The Unitod States on Monday wrapped up negotiations to eliminate tarill's and other trade barriers with Colombia, the second i\ndnan nation to reach a free trad1~ deal with the Unitml States. 
The agronmm1t with Colombia followed a dtHtl wrappnd up in lloeember with Peru. Negotiations are still under way with Eeuador. 
U.S. Tradn Hepresentativn Hob Portman and .Jorge llumberto Botnro, Colombia's minister for trade, industry and tourism, announced tho succnssful condusion of the rwgotiations following around-the-dock bargaining over tho wnekerHI. 
In a statnrnnnt, Portman said that tho new d111tl would gnrwratn export opportunities fo.r i\nwrican farmnrs. manufacturers and service industries, helping to crnatn job opportunities in the Unitnd Statns. It's a politically snnsitivn subjnct given that i\morka's trade delieit hit an all-limn high of $726 billion last year. 
Lay admits to raiding reserves 
En ron founder and former CEO comes clean to jurors in fifth week of trial 
Associated Press 
IIOUSTON -The former 
top accountant for Enron 
Corp.'s profitable trading 
division said Monday that 
he improperly raided 
resnrves to increase earn­
ings in mid-2000 when he 
understood that former 
Chief Ex11cutive Jeffrey 
Skilling and other superiors 
wanted results that would 
wow Wall Street. 
Wesley II. Colwell kicked off the firth week of the fraud and conspiracy trial of Skilling and Enron founder Kenneth Lay, telling jurors he helped the company fraudulently manipulate earnings to meet or beat analysts' expectations by dipping into reserves when Enr.on needed an income boost that business opera­tions didn't provide. 
Colwell didn't say Skilling ordered him to plunder reserves to boost earnings. lie said, however, that he e­mailed his boss-then­Enron North America ehief executive David Delainey ­days before Enron released second-quarter 2000 earn­ings to say he understood that it was Skilling's "pref­erence" to surpass expeeta­tions. 
Colwell explained later he had found out about Skilling's preference third­accounts at Enron North "No, the timing in my mind then-chief oxeeutivn, Cliffhand from accounting exee­America to fraudulently was not an issue with the Baxter, told her in Fnbnmryutive Mark Lindsey, who manipulate Enron's report­changes, it was the way." 201Hl that Colwell wouldtold Colwell that then-Enron ed narnings?" prosecutor Colwell conceded that no replace as ehief' aeeounting 
Chief Accounting Officer 
Sean Berkowitz asked. one told him to do anything offi cor of' En ron North
Hichard Causey had dis­
"Yes," Colwnll replied. improper with a reserve America boeauso she "wascussed it with Skilling. 
Skilling lawyer Handall account, nor did ho voice incapable or making aggrns­"I didn't talk to Skilling," Oppenheimer tried to estab­concern that his action was sive aecounting decisions." 
Colwell said. 
lish that reserve accounts Causey tlwn assignml hnr
Twico within a l'ive-day w~.ong. . .. 
arc part of' normal opera­You never sard, (,ee, I to work for 1\nron's retailstrntch between the close of tions to protect companies don't want to do this?'" energy unit. In autumnthe second quarter in 2000 against losses or liabilities. Oppenheimer asked. 2000, ho dirnetnd Curry toand Enron's announeemenl He also noted that amounts "I did not say that. you're analyzn its trading eontnu~l'iof earnings, Colwell redueod of those reserves fluctuated right," Colwell replied. and billing procedures in anrnserves by $7 million. The with efforts to keep ade­. Other witnesses have tes­assignment dubbnd "Projeettotal $14 million was addnd quate linaneial cushillns. tified that Skilling oither Dnep I>ivn."
to repor·ted income so 
Colwell agreod that it was orden~d or had authority to Curry said slw found wild­
Enron could announce proper to establish such ordor the last-minute ly ovnrvalued contractsearnings-per-share of 34 reserves, but stood his increase in reported earn­stemming from tlw rntailcents rather than the 32 
ground that raiding them to ings-per-share in the second unit's trading opnration andconts Wall Strent expected, pump up earnings was not. quarter of' 2000. piles of' uneashod dweks
making the company 
When Oppenheimer asked Colwell's predecessor, from eustomers, which
appear more successful 
if Colwell opposed the tim­Wanda Curry, took the translated to hundreds orthan it was. 
"Did you use reserve ing of the reserves reduc­stand Monday and tostified millions or dollars in lossns tion, Colwell responded, that the trading division's for the unit. 

Monsato settles Cal copyright suit 
technology, commonly called BST, ago, the sehool did not win a patnnt
Associated Press in the future. The university's until 2004, said UC spoknsrnan Trey ST. LOUIS -Monsanto Co. will patent rights expire in 2023. Davis. The sehool filod its lawsuit pay the University of California At issue is the genetically engi­that year. more than $100 million to settle the neered bovine somatotropin hor­Monsanto spokesman Andrnw school's elaim that the biotechnolo­mone, sold under the brand name Burchett said thn company was tho gy company infringed on its patent Posilac. Monsanto says injections of first to produee the product com­related to a hormone that makes the hormone help dairy cows pro­mercially and it patl~ntnd tho pro­cows produce more milk. duce 10 percent to 15 percent more duction process. The university's Board of Hegents milk. Monsanto said tho agrnornnnt will and Monsanto made the announce­The university alleges in its law­give it the exelusive commereial nwnt Monday as the bovine growth suit that three researchers at UC­license to use the univorsity's hormone ease was seheduled to go San Francisco first isolated the DNA patontod hormonn. Tho univnrsity to trial. The suit was liled in 2004. that is used to make tho hormone. will havn tho right to usn the hor­St. Louis-based Monsanto agreed The lawsuit said Monsanto knew mone in noneomrnnrdal resnan~h. to pay the school $100 million in about the research as early as and. tho U.S. govnrnmont will rntain upf'ront royalties and would pay 15 19R5, but sold tho prod uet anyway. son111 rights beeausn fndnral fund­cents a dose, or at least $5 million While researchers might have ing was used to develop the tech­annually, to license the patented developed the technology deeades nology. 

THE OBSERVER 

'f1n Irulqumdnll, Daily Newrpaper Ser11ing Notre D(1m~ tmd S4in.t Mary's 

·war, the Constitution and bananas 
I~O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SroRTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 
ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 

WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(57 4) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint ~·s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on conrenr. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and deparrmenr editors, Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opiniQns through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q~tions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Hrininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

~ Ob:servtr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday t!Xcepf during exam and vac;ation periods. A subscription to The Observcr is $100 for one academic ye;tt; $55 for one semesn:r-
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining HaH Send addtes.s C()trettiOO$ to: 
No~re D~mc:, IN 46556-0779 !11-C Ol.mrv~ 
Periodic:.al post~e p3id at Notte DAm~ P.O. Bo;779 
and addilional maillng offices. 024 Souili Dining l-:lall 
Norrt' Dame, IN 46)56-0179 

The ObscM:t i, a member ofthe Associ11tcd Pte<ii. All n:produaion righu are 
.~. 
The Constitution is more than just a piece of paper. It is far from perfect, but it is a functional summation of the chains and locks that keep the green eyes of our would-be oppressors downcast. It is a detailed explanation of what our government may do and (as in much of the Bill of Rights) what our gov­ernment may not do. It is something so pre­cious and inviolable that without it, every­thing for which this country stands -life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness -is lost. 
I will be the first to admit that the founders of this nation would never, in their wildest dreams, have imagined the world in which we live today. This fact, however, is not a justilication l'or what the politicians in Washington have done to desecrate the Constitution. 
Anyone who has attended a Notre Dame home football game can recognize the pre­amble: "We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America." It would be impossible for me to count how many times I have heard a left­winger appeal to the preamble to justify price controls, socialized medicine, really any grand social scheme imaginable. Because the Constitution is a "living docu­ment," they claim, it must adapt to provide for today's "general Welfare." 
Interestingly enough, the same argu­ment is made by many "neoconservatives" to justify "American global leadership" ­

Scott Wagner 
Live and Let Live or Die 
the Project for the New American Century's brilliant euphemism for "war" ­in bringing about their vision of a free, democratic world. The Constitution is a "living document," they swear, and it need not be wholly respected with regards to foreign policy. 
For example, they tell us, just because the Constitution requires a declaration of war, does not mean the government must always comply. Instead, Congress often abdicates their responsibility and, like they did in 2003, delegates the authority to declare war to the president. They have been doing so consistently for the last 60 years, despite the fact that it is dangerous and entirely unconstitutional. In faet, the last time America was at war was 1945; Korea, Vietnam and now Iraq are all something else. Indeed, as former IJbertarian Party presidential candidate (and current Republican member of the House of Hepresentatives) Dr. Ron Paul warned in 2002: 'Transferring authority to wage war, calling it permission to use force to fight for peace ... is about as close to 1984 'newspeak' that we will ever get in the real world." 
You may believe James Madison to be outdated, but he was right; in a letter to Thomas Jefferson, he wrote: "The Constitution supposes, what the llistory of all Governments demonstrates, that the Executive is the branch of power most interested in war, and most prone to it. It has accordingly with studied care vested the question of war in the Legislature." The president does not have authority to declare war for this very reason, a reason that America has conveniently forgotten. 
Articles I through III of the Constitution clearly and succinctly explain the powers of the United States' government. Any powers "not delegated to the United States by the Constitution" nor "prohibited by it to the States" do not exist, and if you don't believe me you can read the lOth Amendment. Sueh powers are reserved for the states, or fi1r the populace. So it does not matter how "alive" you believe the Constitution to be; unless the states ratify an amendment granting Congress the power to hand out free bananas, Congress may not hand out free bananas. 

But let us take it a step further: ifthe Constitution is a "living doeunient," which parts of it are "alive"? 
Is it the Second Amendment? Surely, as an enlightened civilization, we no longer need the right to bear arms. Is it the Fourth Amendment? Because in the fight against terrorism, we cannot afford to obtain warrants for wiretaps and search­es. Or what about the Eighth Amendment, because seriously-why can't we torture terrorists? 
What about the First Amendment? Do we need that anymore? 
Here is my warning, then, to those with ears to hear it: if the Constitution is alive, its heart vibrates in tune with the party in power. When the ruling parties feel secure enough to ignore the restrictions imposed on them, something priceless and distinct­ly American is dead. 
Our Constitution is not without flaws, but it is also not subject to the whims of any­one. The founders may not have been able to imagine today's world with the Internet or "Dancing with the Stars," but they could most certainly imagine a bloated central­ized government that overtaxed its people, dictated its will across many oceans and made non-defensive war against whomev­er its leader deemed worthy. 
In fact, they had just defeated one. 
Scott Wagner is the president ofthe College Libertarians, a club that ha!> an awesome Web site at www.nd.edu/-liberty. He can be contacted at swagnerl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsemer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Amanda Michaels Ken Fowler Peter Ninneman Jack Thornton What do you think about the 
"Give fools their gold, 
~Submit aLetter ,

Viewpoint Greg Arbogast 
and knaves their power; 
tuition hike? 
Alyssa Scene 

Let fortune's bubbles rise andfall. Who sows a field, or trains a flower, 
Brauweiler Mark 
Or plants a tree, is more than all."



1to tbe Editor at

Graphics Bemenderfer Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Graham Ebetsch 
John Greenleaf Whittier Quaker poet 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
1www.ndsmcobserver.com 1~ 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 28, 2006 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Living wage a necessity 
Notre Damn providos some wonderful bonelils to its full­timn workers (only), such as lwalth insurance, access to workout and library fiu:ilities and tho chal1cn fhr workers' children to attend Notre Dame f(>r frnn. But if families can­not put fhod on tho table, bonofiLc;; mean nothing. Campus l.abor Action Projoct (CI API has ealeulatnd the living wage of $12.1 0 based on tho cosLc;; of' living. A filmily of four mak­ing lnss than $12.10 an hour would qualify f(>r fiJOd stamps. No Notr1~ Damn worknr should rwed to accept li1deral assis­tanco to f(1od his or hnr family. And workers do receive good hnalthmrn at Notre Dame. 
Catholicism is rwithnr conservative nor liberal, but tran­scnnds politiral dassifimtion to support that which aflirms tho value of lilil. CJ AP is sponsored by both PSA and Right to l.ili1. That's right. progressives and conservatives. A living wag11 is not conservative or libnral; it is Catholic, dnmandnd by !.no XIII, Pius XI. Paul VI. John XXIII and John Paul II. <:atholi<~<; do not beliovn that thn worth of human work is determined b:Y the market, but that every human has the right to make enough to support his or her filmily through his or her labor." The ultimate end of <illY government or econo­my is not tho market, but the human person. This is not wel­lilre. This is not charity. This is justice. No person who works a full-time job should need governmc~nt support to subsist. 
Giving money is not the point. While I'd be happy to "ante-up" what I could, it would not solve the systemic problem of prioritizing the mark<~t over people. Capitalism is not our god. Furthermore, statistics from munieipalliving wages show that service work eontraeLc;; incrnased only .003 percent to ,07 percent due to savings from reduced turnover, training eosts and having healthy, happy, hard­working and loyal employees. Sure, it's going to cost us something. But this is about prioritizing. To eonseiously withhold just wages to our own advantage is to violate and oppress our eooks, servers and housekeepers. I'd love to know how we could replace them with machines, or even to cut down on the workfcm:e. If we did, thnsn jobs simply wouldn't get done. I'd also lovn to sno those poople who daim a living wage will only hurt workers approach a cus­todian who works 17 hours a day at two jobs and toll him that a living wago would only hurt him. 
The living wage question boils down to a quostion of our identity. Yns, we'rn dedicated to learning as an institution, but W<J call ourselves Catholic, which is supposnd to difl"or­entiate us. A living wage is Catholic; it's justicn, it's humarw. This is a true test of our Catholie mission. Am wn Catholic or are we corporate? And if we as a Catholie univnrsity won't implement the changes necessary to crnatn ajust world, who will'? 
Jackie Clark freshman Welsh Family II all Frb. 21 


Support basketball 
If you wont to the baskntball game on, let me repeat for emphasis: against Marquette on Saturday, you've The Marquette f'ans were louder probably snnn my face. I was the guy than we were. who e<unn in sncond in the contest for After a several-hour drive from John Mellenr.amp tickets. I'm also the Wisconsin to South Bend these fans guy who stood up with thron or so found the energy necessary to start a minutes left in the second half and "We are Marquette" ehant. Our fans, implored tho rest of you to gnt up and meanwhile, couldn't find the energy to start making noise. get loud and jump around during half 
Quiek story. Some of you may have of their defensive possessions. hoard of tlw great message board Now looking at my handy packet of wobsite NDNation.eorn. If not, go tickets I see that there's one game left check it out sonwtimn. Aftnr the South against DePaul. This is' our chance to Florida game in tho basketball section shine. Prove that we can make noise. I nngag11d in an argument about the Notre Dame basketball has a proud student body. Alumni continually lam­history, from Austin Carr to Chris basted our classes, saying we've given Quinn. Let's show the world that we up and can't get loud. No, no, I coun­care and that we can be loud start to tnrnd, wait until a good tnam comes linish -no matter what happens. into town. Wn'll get loud. Four guys are playing their last game 
I'm sad to say, I found nothing that in a Notre Dame basketball uniform dispels this rumor. Saturday, so if you don't do it for me, 
Imaginn b11ing down a touchdown in do it for them. They deserve it. Notn1 Dame stadium with three min­utes to go. Would you nned a short guy Jim Bochnowslci in aviator sunglassns and face paint to sophomore toll you to got loud? Of course not. The Fisher Hall MarquottP fans outshoutnd us. I told Feb. 26 

Wages shouldn't be based on 'market' 
In the last few installments of Viewpoint I simply as thB "market" dietatns. Capitalism have twiee come across the phrase "welfare arose out of systems incongruent with and agnncy" in regard l.o what Our Lady's contrary to the Saernd Tradition of the University would become-and ought not Chun~h. We can look, as Wnber did, to the be-should it institute a living wage for its Protestant Hef(•rmation, to Calvin in particu­employees. The authors in question most lar, and we can look to the Enlightenment as certainly have used the phrase in a pejora­the sources of capitalism and its equally tive sense. This troubles me, and should materialistic sister, socialism. As an intngral trouble others as well. part of the Catholic world, the Univnrsity, to 
Fully aware that I risk making unfair the greatest extent possible, must reaet assumptions, I state that it seems to me that against, and servo as a forcn in opposition the authors who have used this term, and to, the dismal, matnrialistie ways of market-· most who agree with them, likely are the based economies. It ought to base iLc;; pay same types who support "faith-based initia­scale not on concepts of "supply" and tives" rather than the bureaucratic statist "demand," but on the intrinsic worth of welfare system. Is this -a living wage paid every man and woman. That is the Catholic by a private, Catholic entity -not, in fact, thing to do. Following market forces-par­the ultimate in faith-based initiatives? ticularly when this is unnecessary -only 
More to the point, those who continue to further separates man from his inherent attack the idea of a living wage on market­dignity and worth. based arguments have underlying their views a fundamental misunderstanding­Nathan Origer or ignorance...::.... of the situation. Not only is senior Notre Dame not bound by market forces, Fisher I bll but in a sense has an obligation not to act Feb. 27 
U-WIRE 

Society must accept homosexuality 
Lilt rnn just say this-I'm fine with straight pnople. H<mfly, I am. I havo no problmns with heterosexuals, as long as thny don't llaunt it. That opening statnmont probably soundnd a lil.tle bit wllird to you. Al'ter all, how would a per­son go about "llaunl.ing" his heterosnxuality? 
An individual's snxuality does not 
Laura
dnfirw or dictate his eharaetor, but gays 

Alix
and IE~sbians arn nxpeeted not to "llaunt it." whatnvor that's supposnd to mean. I 
"' University of
have had many a eonvnrsation about 
Connecticut
gays' nqual rights with well-meaning 
The Daily
frinnds who prm~nnd to say something 
Campus
similar to my opening statomnnt. When I, <L<; an ally, prnss tho pnrson fbr a fur­tlwr nxplanalion of this phrasn, "flaunting it," I am met with a vagun rnsponsn likn, "Oh, you know, just when they act rnally gay." The cyde of ambiguity continues, and the exact dnfinition of "llaunting it" persisLc;; in eluding me. 
What brings this subjnet to light is a recent advice eolumn I rnad last wnek. A woman wrote in, concerned because her nnw nnighbors. who had pnwiously benn so kind to her, worn now ignoring her. Tho neighbors were a young gay eouplo who bought the most run-down pince of proporty in tlw neighborhood, fixnd it up and were generally dean, productive rnembnrs of thn neighborhood. The woman snoking advice had no problem at all with her new neigh­bors, until shn saw them 11mbrace and kiss each other as they lP)'t for work onn day. Shocked at sueh a public display of afliHtion, shn fi•llownd her pastor's advice in drafting a Iotter to her neighbors, asking them to refrain from show­ing allfH~tion likn that in public. I am amazed that this woman was actually confused as to why they would ignore lwr aftnr a stunt likn that. Hegardless of how nicely she may have worded the request, her message was still the same: "I 
don't have a problem with you as long as you don't make ·publie the f'aet that you are gay." The advice, I believe, was to apologize and be grateful that all they were doing was 
it,l"J1oring her. 
This particular attitude toward gays and lesbians is far too prevalent today and is only helping gay rights oppo­nents. Although it's probably not as bad as outright hatred and prejudice toward homosexuals, the "don't flaunt it" viewpoint ultimately only serves to reinforce the eompulso­ry heterosexuality that pervades our culture and oppresses gays and lesbians. Gays, lesbians, bisexuals and transgen­dered people ought not to face any kind of discrinlination in today's America, nor should they be made to feel as though they ought to change their sexualities. That's a pretty sim­ple idea, but one that doesn't seem to be catching on too well. If you don't believe me, just read the news. Ten Hopublican legislators in Ohio recently introduced a bill that would ban adoption by gays and lesbians, all while demanding that we "think of the children!" The underlying assumption here is that gays and lesbians make unfit par­ents. 
Need another example? Consider the "Love Won Out" conference that was sponsored by Focus on the Family and Exodus International and met just this past weekend in St. Louis. The conference focused on the newest and trendiest way that religious conservatives deal with gays and lesbians today-what is termed "conversion therapy." Conversion therapy is proving to be quite the boon for James Dobson and his ilk. They ean daim to love homosexuals and want happiness for them, all the while preaching that gay people ought to repent for their sinful ways and magically become straight again. Proponents of conversion therapy paint gays and lesbians as miserabh~ and pitiful ereatures who arn unhappy becausn they've chosen the "wrong" lifilstyln. If' gays would only "eonvert" back to hntnrosnxuality, l.hny could live happily ever after. 
A few thoughts run through my mind whnn eonsidnring this eute, almost threatnning little trnnd of conversion thnr­apy. First among them is the notion that if somebody can bn "converted" to bning straight, them he or she probably was­n't even gay in the first plaen. Secondly, what about the countless gays, lesbians, bisexuals and transg<mdnrnd pno­ple who are happy with thnmsnlves? Pnopln who support conversion therapy fail, or refuse, to see that thorn are other factors in a person's lilo that ean rnakn him unhappy, and tl1e individual's sexuality is not one of them. 
Although the days of polico raids on gay bars may bn over, discrimination still continues in subtlnr and maybn more pownrfulf(lrms, like anti-gay legislation and conver­sion therapy, which is really only thinly-disguisnd antipathy. In this day and age when wn ought to bn making progress in the area of gays' equal rights, the "ick fador" that many associate with "flaunting it" has no place. It funis the notion that homosexuals are not normal and somehow less worthy of the same rights that straight pnople enjoy. I don't rnally want to see any two people, gay or straight, playing tonsil hockey in public, but we as a sodety should not be disgust­ed by the sight of two men holding hands. I say flaunt it all you want. 
This article originally appeared in the Feb. 27 edition of The Daily Campus, the daily publication at the University of Connecticut. 
The views expressed in this column are those (!(the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, February 28, 2006 
1 
Isc~& fnRn 
The harsh life of a pop star 
It's not so bad being a pop star. I get what do you expect? paid a lot of money to make mediocre One time, the CD actually started records. In fact, I don't even have to skipping while I was on stage. You write my own music. Basically, I just can't even imagine how embarrassed I listen to a beat (that's the easy p·art, was. Fortunately, after being booed off because most of stage, my publicist got together with a them sound the TV producer and made a reality show same anyways) about me. This really restored my and then the public image. Plus, my older, more tal­record producer ented sibling had some nice quotes finds someone to about me, and everyone just seemed write lyrics for to forget all about it. me. Even these I know what you're thinking-this don't have to be sounds like it's all so incredibly easy. that decent, as my But you don't know how hard it is for manager says, me out there. Just the other day, I was "It's all about enjoying a chai tea latte arid an ener­presentation." gy bar when a seven-year old girl 
So I have this practically accosted me asking me for beat now and the my autograph. Fortunately, I had a lyrics and I'm in way out. She was holding a blue the studio and I Sharpie. I can only sign autographs am freaking out. Apparently the syn­with Bic gel pens. Sponsorships, you thesizer on the computer is broken know? and I might have to actually sing. This Besides the stinging heat of the might not "seem" like a problem but limelight, I have to deal with keeping believe me, it is. As a pop star, I'm not up with my "rockin' bod." I pay thou­actually required to have a good voice. sands of dollars a week for a personal In fact, I can't really sing that well at trainer, a personal chef and a make­all, probably not much better than up artist to make sure I look this good you. You would be amazed what com­all the time. On top of that, I have to puters can do. have a maid to keep my house clean 
You might be thinking, "But what in case any celebrities stop by and a about when you perform live? Surely, mechanic to make sure my nine cars then, your favade will be discovered." are always running and full of gas. It's But alas, my naive friend, I don't actu­a hard knock life. ally sing when I'm live. Heavens no. I I like to think that I'm an inspiration could strain my sub-par vocal cords or to untalented people everywhere. I am mess up the lyrics (you have probably proof that it doesn't really matter how seen this happen to other, less-talent­well you can sing or act or really do ed artists). Besides, I'm probably too anything. If you're good-looking busy dancing to do much anything enough, or have an older more talent­else. It would be nearly impossibly to ed sibling who has already made it hit a high note just after doing the big, you can become a pop star-just worm across the stage. I'm just way like me. Despite all the terrible hard­out of breath. So instead, I just play ships of my lifestyle, I chose it. one of my CDs over a mega-loud Although it's tough, all in all, it's . sound system and spend the entire really not so bad being a pop star. concert dancing around the stage mouthing the words. Do you have any Contact Chris McGrady at cmc­idea how tiring that is for me? gradl@nd.edu Sometimes I don't even last the entire The views expressed in this column two-hour concert and have to cut the are those of the author and not neces­show short. But hey, for $45 tickets, sarily those of The Observer. 


Photo courtesy of bbc.co.uk Ashlee Simpson, above in concert, suffered from a technical malfunction on Saturday Night Live in 2005, revealing that she lip synched her appearance. 
DPAC REVIEW 

Sir Galway, wife en 
recently taken up conducting, GalwayBy BRIAN DOXTADER demonstrated his new endeavor on the 
Assistant Scene Editor 

other two works. The Polish Chamber Orchestra was 
Sir James Galway is a living legend in capable throughout, especially in classical music circles, and his perform­Galway's up-tempo take on Molto Allegro , ance on Sunday in the Leighton Concert from Symphony No. 40. Though "Eine Hall of the Debartolo Performing Arts Kleine Nachtmusik" is one of classical Center (DPACT was as impressive as they music's most famous pieces, the Polish come. Chamber Orchestra's performance was 
In celebration of the 250th anniversary still noteworthy for its graceful musician­of Mozart's birth, flutist Galway and his ship. wife Lady Jeanne Galway have embarked Galway's wife, Lady Jeanne Galway, on a North American tour with the Polish was featured on The Magic Flutes -the Chamber Orchestra. If Sunday's perform­program noted that Mozart never actually ance is any indicator, Galway certainly wrote a solo piece for two flutes, thus seems intent on putting the "art" back necessitating Overton's oft-clever rework­into Mozart. ing. 
The program consisted of four major Galway seemed to have a great time, works, three of which were composed by bantering with the crowd and becoming Mozart -Serenade No. 13 in G Major, K. animated whilst playing. This was infec­525 ("Eine Kleine Nachtmusik"), Flute tious, as both the audience and· the Concerto No. 2 in D Major, K. 314 ·and orchestra seemed to enjoy this interac­Symphony No. 40 in g minor, K. 550. The tion. His high spirits poured over into the final piece, "The Magic Flutes" (written music, which was impressively played by Galway's friend David Overton), was a throughout. homage to Mozart and featured various Galway is oft-considered one of the works by the composer strung together greatest flutists in the world, and his per­into the form of a standard symphony. formance did not disappoint. The orches­
Galway said it received its inaugural tra stayed right }Vith him, never flagging performance in South Bend with Sunday's in energy or musicianship. He flew performance. As such, only the first, third through Flute Concerto No. 2 with pas­and fourth movements were played, as sion, purpose and artistry. The duet with Overton requested the second be omitted. his wife fare.d slightly less well, as the 
The program was extremely well­players seemed more hesitant and less selected, featuring many of the genius' relaxed than on the solo works. most famous works. "Eine Kleine Still, it was a good selection for Mozart Nachtmusik" was probably the best­enthusiasts, who could pick out snippets known, though Symphony No. 40 is also of their favorite compositions within the one of Mozart's most noted pieces. framework of Overton's faux-symphonic Galway himself only played on half of the piece. selections, Flute Concerto No. 2 and The concert featured no less than four Overton's The Magic Flutes. As he has encores, all of which were short, but 
VIDEO GAME REVIEW 

'Maverick Hunter' a 
fashion, as well as a wealth of other fea­By MARK BEMENDERFER tures, "Maverick Hunter" is worth the gam­
Assistant Scene Editor 

ing dollar. 
For newcomers to the series, the story isn't Mega Man. too complex to get into. Humankind created For some, the name seems vaguely famil­a race of androids, titled reploids, which are 
iar. They may have some vague idea what capable of independent thought and action. the name entails, be it a video game or car­They work side-by-side with humanity in a toon image. peaceful co-existence. 
Older garners should instantly recognize In typical gaming fashion, things go wrong the name, associating it with many nostalgic very quickly. Reploids begin to question their memories from the days when Nintendo existence, and turn on their human part­ruled the console scene. The little blue ners. These maverick reploids are a danger android known as Mega Man has been to humanity, and to combat them the around for nearly 20 years, and for many Maverick Hunters, also reploids, are formed. has become an icon for gaming.• The Maverick Hunters are lead by the Appropriately, Capcom's release of "Mega powerful Sigma. In a twist, he also goes Man Maverick Hunter X" on the PlayStation maverick, leaving the group disorganized Por-table extends the character's reach into and leaderless. This leaves the lowly and the next generation of gaming. recently restored B-class hunter Mega Man 
Essentially a remake of "Mega Man X" to pick up the pieces, and attempt to restore from the original Super Nintendo console, peac·e and order to the land. this game is a deal for veterans and rookies Part of remaking the classic "Mega Man alike. "Maverick Hunter" expands on its X" has been to give this incarnation a graph­source material to craft an engaging experi­ical update. Featuring fully three-dimension­ence. Featuring new introductions and con­al characters, the graphics are good enough clusions to the story, animated in cartoon to push the PSP's hardware capabilities. 
Retaining the two dimensional nature of the original, the mix­ture works well and retains fans of the original. The graphical updates alone make the game worth a purchase for veteran "Mega Man" fans. 


However, the story has received an upgrade along with the graphics. The supporting characters have all had their parts elaborated, with small cut-scenes before each boss bat­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, Pebruary 28, 2006 

ertain Notre Dame 
ir James Galway performed alongside his 
bartolo Performing Arts Center Sunday. 
rowd-pleasing. Highlights include zart's "Turkish Hondo" and a rnndition 
tf "Danny Boy," which (;alway described sa "musi1~al prayor." Though these ncorns mn;uJl lhn concert ran on tlw 
ong side (over two hours). it was kept njoyable by Galway's well-chosen seine­. ons and his nimble musicianship. 
Galway's performanc:e in the Leighton Concert Hall was an impressive c:onc:ert by one of the world's most noteworthy music:ians. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
nostalgic fan tribute 
Photo courtesy of gamespot.com Mega Man, left, faces off against the dangerous maverick, Spark Mandrill. "Maverick Hunter X" is a remake of the Super Nlntendo classic. 

t.IP featuring a hriPI' oxchange of words. ZPro, and Mega Man's nemesis Vile, have also rnl'l~iwd daboratPd storylillllS. 
This brings up perhaps tlw greatest addi­tion to "Mega Man X," which is the indusion of' a new unlockable playable eharadrw. Vile is playable after one play-through of' the game, and his abilities arn vastly difTernnt than those of' Moga Man. 
Featuring a vast arsenal of wmtpons that gn~atly outnumlH~rs Mega Man's, Vile's ganwplay rnanagns to spice things up nnough to warrant another tn~k through "Mawrirk lluntor." Given three weapons to ' use at onr:n, as opposed to Mega Man's soli­tary hand cannon, Viln is a walking armory 
to complement Mega Man's dassie mode of gamoplay. Vile is also given his own animat­ml introduction and eondusion, as well as unique dialogue exchanges with the bossns. 
Also unloekable is a 20-minute movie that chronieles Sigma's betrayal and loads up to the adual game. It's additions like this that push the game above thn roalm of' standard rnmakes and earn it a worthy plaee in any I'SP gamer's library. At $10 below the stan­dare! priee fi1r a new PSP game, "Mega Man Mavnriek Hunter X" is worth the prien of admission. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
page II 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Vengeful'Munich' packs punch 

By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Scene Editor 
There's a moment in Steven Spielbnrg's "Munich" that echoes one from 12 years earlier in the direetor's career. 
In 1993's "Schindler's List," a young girl 
.runs through a melee while trying to esc:apn from Nazi soldiers. DecoratHd in a brilliant red dress, the girl provided a stark contrast to the rest of the film's blaek and white imagery and her plight was one the audienc:e -and Oskar Schindler, the 111m's protagonist-could­n't ignore. ller sudden death gripped viewers in the heart of the film's conflict and shocked Schindler into action, per­haps even single-handedly changing his eharaeter's destiny for the better. Fast forward a dozen years and a simi­lar trial-by-fire is visited upon Avner 

(Erie Banal, a Munich next -is exquisittdy young and idealis­
shot and each has its tie Israeli govern­own uniquo f'eel. As ment agent in the l'ilm 's narrativn "Munieh." A girl, darkens, so too does
Director: Steven Spielberg not quite as young the gritty appnaranee
Writers: Tom Kushner and Eric Roth this time but still and f'rantie pace of' tlw
Starring: Eric Bana, Daniel Craig, innocent, is placed cinematography and
Geoffrey Rush and Ciaran Hinds 
in harm's way sim­ply because her father had a hand in the murder of 11 Israelis by a Palestinian terrorist group during tho 1972 Olympic Gaines in Munich, Cormany. And again, this precar­ious sc:ene in "Munic:h" predudes what comes next. But this time, the girl's fate is jeopardized by a nation's pained attempts to exact blind vengcanc:e, instead of 
Nazism. 
Chosen to lead a four-man Israeli team in tracking down and wiping out the Olympic terrorists, Avner believes strong­ly in tho job and proves to be all-too­efl'ective at his task. But as the body count risns, he begins to morally question his nation's bloody quest for rnvenge. 
"Munich" is a dif'f1c:ult film to watch, with each suc:c:essive mission turning bloodier and casualties falling on both sides. Yet through it all, Spielberg man­ages to tipt~w a careful line, allowing "Munich" to remain politic:ally even­handnd despitn primarily seeing through the eyes of the lsranli side of the brutal conflict. 
As possibly the world's foremost Jewish-Amnrican, Spielbnrg had very lit­tle to gain from this film. After all, "Schindinr's List" was a film that won seven Oscars -induding Best Picture and Bnst Director -and staked Spielberg's elaim as one of the world's greatnst living directors. I Jere was some­one who could lay claim to "Ac:tion King of Hollywood"-having directed the Indiana Jones trilogy, "Jurassic Park" and "Jaws" early in his c:areer -attempting t~l balanen his oeuvre with a heartf'nlt look at the horrors of the Holocaust -and 

-
sueeneding mastprfully. 
Amidst the controversy swirling around tlw production of "Munir~h." Spinlhnrg facnd intnnse scrutiny from all sides, rwen from those who likely dwnrnd his pnwi­ous ef'f'ort in "Schindler's List." .Jewish author .Jack Engelhard vehemently accused Spiolberg of being "no friend to lsranl" largoly on the basis of' the ambigu­ous message presnntnd in "Munieh." Amidst all the criticism, the qunst.ion isn't how Spielberg made the film. The mort~ perplexing question is, "Why?" Why "Munich," and why now? 
While do bate about the film's mnssage may rage on fi>r years, thorn's very little litult to be li>Und with the film's tedmkal brilliance. Featuring superb einmnatohrra­phy, the film transporL'i viowors into tho heart of the visceral conflict. Ead1 locale of the film's increasingly global sr~ale ­
as Avner's toam nu~ns 
f'rom onn mark to the 
editing, respnetively. 

On a purely todmil:al lnvel, "Munieh" is a fascinating look at Spinlbnrg's tTafl in the 20th cnntury. 
A film liko this one is dnfinod by its pnr­formanc:ns and Bana's performanen as Avnnr, the tumultuous mnotional cnntnr of "Munich," is as raw and visceral as tlw film's eontont. Bana's poso in the film's tlwatrieal poster, seatod all alone and sil­houettr~d in a dark hotd room, is just a small samplr~ of his striking roln in tlw film. Long gone is any sr~mhlanr~e of Dr. Bruen Bannnr and llnctor, the rolns in "Hulk" and "Troy" that r~atapulted Bana to international stardom. Bana spnar­lwads a strong ensemblo cast-induding Gooll'rey Hush, Daniel Craig (the future .Jamos Bondi and Ciaran Hinds -that remain wholly absorbnd in thnir rospoe­tive rolns, driving thn film's action for­ward.· 
Tho plight of the young girl in "Munich" provns to be a microcosm for t.lw film's dil'fkult content. Tlw resolution of' this one tonsn seene leaves Avner shaknn ­aft.nr all, hn's no monster, just a loyal dti­znn doing a job for his country. But, unliko in "Sehindlnr's List," it changns lit­tle of' the protagonist's coursn of action. instoad loading him down a mud1 darknr path. 
"Munich" lingors in tho hack of the mind long af'tnr tho crodiL'i roll. Jinw films have its guttural power, but ovon f'nwnr leave audiences with such a complex and unelear message -just as Spielberg intonded. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 28, 2006 
NBA 
Smith's clutch shooting gives Hawks OT win 
Pistons overcome five technical fouls as Ben Wallace and 'Rip' Hamilton lead Pistons to sixth-straight victory 
Associated Press saw it another way." by the NBA on Monday for the Carter had an earlier chance Oagrant foul. 
ATLANTA -Josh Smith's to win it for the Nets,. but fum­The two tangled again in the work on his jump shot is paying bled the inbounds pass and his rematch, but Wallace simply ofl'. desperation shot from about 20 laughed when Ilgauskas shoved 
AI Harrington scored 22 feet at the buzzer wasn't even him to the floor in the second points and Smith hit two key dose. quarter. jumpers to help the Atlanta "I just lost the ball," Carter "I guess that was his wannabe Hawks beat the New Jersey said. . retaliation," Wallace said. "l Nets 104-102 in overtime Carter scored seconds after started laughing and got a Monday night. Smith's clutch jumper in over­[technical foul] for that." 
Smith, who won the NBA time to cut it to .1 04-102 and It was one of five technicals dunking title a year ago and is the Nets got a chance to win it called against the Pistons, who known more for his athleticism, when the Hawks failed to get off complained all night about the made a jumper with 33.9 sec­a shot within 24 seconds, giving officiating. onds left in overtime to give the New Jersey the ball with 7.1 "We get three, four, five tech­Ilawks a 104-100 lead. He also seconds left. nicals, but all we do is win. And scored on a jumper with 4. 9 "[Assistant coach] Larry Drew that's the ultimate spit in the seconds to play in regulation to kept telling me to shoot my shot face," Wallace said. tie it at 94. because it's right on target," Cavaliers fans booed Wallace 
"Coach has put confidence in Smith said. "The opportunity loudly during the pre-game me. He knows I've been work­came, AI [Harrington] swung introductions and nearly every ing on my jump shot, so he the ball to me, and I knocked time he touched the ball. One doesn't have any problem with down the jump shot." sign read "Rasheed Must me taking it," Smith said. H.ichard Jefferson and Carter Bleed!" 
Smith, a second-year forward, scored 22 points apiece for New But the result was the same, was 6-of-12 from the field and Jersey. Krstic had 21 points and .another 12-point loss in which finished with 19 points, nine Jason Kidd had 19 points, a the Cavaliers were outhustled, rebounds and four blocks. season-high 17 assists and nine allowing the Pistons too many 
"Last year we would cringe rebounds. second chances on offense in when he would shoot the bas­"You have to give Josh Smith losing their fourth in a row. k-etball," Atlanta coach Mike credit. He made two huge "They both hurt," Cavaliers Woodson said. "Now his shot shots," Frank said. forward Drew Gooden said. looks like a shot and he is han­"The feeling I had yesterday cUing the ball a little better." Detroit 84, Cleveland 72 was the same one I have today." 
Vince Carter attempted a long H.asheed Wallace helped LeBron James led Cleveland 3-pointer in the final seconds of Detroit to back-to-back wins with 26 points and Ilgauskas, overtime but it rimmed out and over the Cleveland Cavaliers, playing with five stitches in his nent, the Heat extended their Chris Bosh and Morris Nenad Krstic also missed a fol­and had a few laughs at their head, scored 18 and had 15 season-best winning streak to Peterson scored 19 points low attempt for the Atlantic expense. rebounds. six games with the victory. apiece for Toronto. Division-leading Nets, who have Wallace scored 24 points and Chauncey Billups added 15 Dwyane Wade was 15-for-19 ''I'd rather lose a dose game lost two straight. H.ichard Hamilton added 22 to points and 12 assists for from the field and scored 32 to a tough team than get blown 
"We have great trust in lead the Pistons to a win Detroit. Ben Wallace was score­points. Shaquille O'Neal added out," Bosh said. "I sleep better Vince's judgment," New Jersey Monday night, their sixth less but had 12 rebounds and 27 points and 11 rebounds and at night." coach Lawrence Frank said. straight. helped keep James from mak­the Heat shot a season-high 60 "He wanted to put it on his Wallace made four 3-pointers ing easy trips to the rim. percent. Milwaukee 110, Denver 89 shoulders and win it. It. went in a night after he split open The Cavaliers took their first Riley's motivational tactics Michael Redd had 24 points and out. We gave ourselves an Zydrunas Ilgauskas' head with lead of the second half on apparently worked. and nine rebounds, and Charlie opportunity for an offensive an elbow during Detroit's 90-78 James' fast-break dunk with "I've been around for nine or Bell added 17 points in the rebound. The basketball gods home win. He was fined $5,000 5:03 left in the third period. He 10 years with him," Heat center Milwaukee Bucks' victory over 
followed with two jumpers to Alonzo Mourning said. "You Denver on Monday night. push the margin to 60-56 on an never ever know what he's Andrew Bogut and Jamaal 8-0 run. going to do, so you can expect Magloire scored 16 points 
But the Pistons reclaimed the anything. Hey, as long as we're apiece for the Bucks, who lead early in the fourth quarter collecting wins when he's doing ended a six-game losing streak with an 11-4 run keyed by it, that's all that counts." against the Nuggets dating to Maurice Evans and Hamilton Atlantic Division leader Miami Jan. 25, 2003. that made it 73-67. is feasting on a soft stretch in Carmelo Anthony had 19 
Detroit held Cleveland to nine the schedule, and the next five points for Denver, but only four points in the fourth quarter, games are against teams with in the second half after the tying a Cavaliers season low. losing records. Bucks had built a 24-point lead. 
"They did a great job of exe­The Raptors lost their fourth Newcomers Ruben Patterson cuting in the fourth quarter and game in a row, and the latest and Reggie Evans combined for we didn't," James said. defeat came with Toronto on 11 points for the Nuggets. 
the verge of hiring Bryan Earl Boykins, who had eight Miami 101, Toronto 94 Colangelo as president and gen­of Denver's 18 points in the 
Miami Heat coach Pat Hiley eral manager. He resigned fourth quarter connected on his said he talked to his team for 90 Monday as president and gener­first three shots to cut it to 93­minutes at practice Sunday, and al manager of the Phoenix 79 with 7:22 l~ft, but Bobby for an hour the next morning at Suns, and a news conference is Simmons hit a 3-pointer. The a shootaround. scheduled for Tuesday in Nuggets closed within 14 again 
Then, before Monday night's Toronto to announce his hiring. on Boykins' two free throws, game against Toronto, Riley Mike James scored 26 points but Joe Smith hit a jumper and walked into the locker room for the Raptors, who won the a layup with 5:08 left to make it with tape over his mouth. earlier meeting between teams 102-84. 
"I did not say anything," he -their lone victory in their Milwaukee shot 58 percent in said. "I think they got the mes­first 16 games. the first half to take a 69-45 sage." "Our guys had great respect lead. The 69 points are the 
Warding off a possible Let­for this team," Riley said. "They Bucks' most in a half this sea­down against a sub-.500 oppo-stung us." son. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. ~ 
CLASSIFIEDS 
3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web 2·3·4 BEDROOMS. Immediate & UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don site:mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary 2006-07. Security, phone included. not go it alone.lf you or someoneWANTED FoR RENT 574-993·2208 or grooms@ourweb-315-3215. FoR SALE you love needs confidential support spot. net ndstudentrentals.com or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. BE ON THE FIELD WITH THE. .. WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED-A 4 bdrm, 2bth newly remodeled Gude, esc, at 1·7819. For more 
IRISH GUARD We need students who are: Returning to NO for Fall 
06. A min. of 6ft. 2 in. in height. In good academic standing. Info ses· sion on Tues., Feb. 28, at 8:30 pm in Montgomery Aud. across from Starbucks in LaFortune. If you can­not attend the meeting, call 631 · 3336. 
ROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532·1408 
Stop overpaying for rent. Visit BlueGoldrentals.com 
123 NO Ave. 3·bdrm,1.5 bath. Call 574·229-0149. 
COLLEGE PARK CON DOMINI· UMS AVAILABLE FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED· ROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY. 235· 7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. 
A 4 bdrm, 2bth house near campus. All appliances included. Pets wei-­come. $1350. Call220·8666. 
515 St.Joe: 7 bdrm,area of student rentals, $1200/mo. 57 4·250· 7653 
1·7 bdrm. homes starting @ $200/student, 24-hr.maint.,free pool tables, 1st mo. free. Call574·250·7653 or visit bluegoldrentals'.com 

house near campus. $90,000. Call 220-8666. 
PERSONAL 

Eurydice, since you asked so sweetly, I will play it all day long, just for you. Orpheus information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
1 1 days until The City. 
I looked into it, and upon further review. Buffalo is not the worst city in America. That distinction belongs to Palo Alto. Lousy Nor-Cal. 


AROUND THE NATION 
'li.tesday, February 28, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NBA Standings 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
lPam  record  pc:t.  GB  
New Jersey  31·25  .554  
Philadelphia  28-27  .509  2.5  
Boston  23·33  .411  8  
Toronto  20-36  .357  11  
New York  15-40  .273  15.5  

Eastern Conference, Central Division 
tPam record pd. GB 
Detroit 47-9 .839 Cleveland 32-25 .561 15.5 Indiana 28-25 .528 17.5 Milwaukee 28·28 .500 169 Chicago 24·31 .436 22.5 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division toam rN:ord pet. GB 
Miami 36-20 .643 Washington 29·25 .537 6 Orlando 20·35 .364 15.5 Atlanta 18·37 .327 17.5 Charlotte 15·42 .263 21.5 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
I.e~ am n~corcl pet. GB 
Denver 30·26 .536 Utah 26·29 .473 3.5 Minnesota 24·31 .436 5.5 Seattle 21·36 .368 9.5 Portland 18·37 .327 11.5 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
tNtm record pet. GB 
Phoenix 37-17 .685 LA Clippers 31-23 .574 6 LA Lakers 28·28 .500 10 Sacramento 25·30 .455 12.5 Golden State 24·31 .436 13.5 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
team record pet. GB Dallas 44·11 .800 San Antonio 43·12 .782 1 New Orleans 31-25 .554 13.5 Memphis 30·26 .536 '14.5 Houston 25·31 .446 19.5 
Fencing Top 20 

No. .~fen No. Women 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 
Ohio State NOTRE DAME Penn State Harvard Columbia St. Johns Princeton Pennsylvania Stanford Duke Air Force Rutgers Brown NYU Yale North Carolina UC·San Diego Wayne State Brandeis Cleveland State 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 ·14 15 16 17 18 19 20 

NOTRE DAME Penn State Columbia-Barnard Ohio State Harvard St. Johns Northwestern Yale Pennsylvania Princeton Stanford Wayne State Temple Duke UC-San Diego Air Force NYU Rutgers North Carolina Brown 
MLB 

AP 

Oakland Athletics first baseman Frank Thomas smiles during a media conference Jan. 26 In Oakland, Calif. Thomas and Chicago general manager Kenny Williams discussed their escalated verbal feud Sunday night by phone. 
Thotnas and Williatns discuss issues 
Associated Press 
TUCSON, Ariz. Former White Sox star Frank Thomas and Chicago general manager Kenny Williams talked by phone for 20 minutes to discuss their escalated ver­bal feud. 
Williams called Thomas "an idiot" and "self'ish" Sunday after reading the ex-slugger's comments in a newspaper interview in which he reiterated that he wasn't happy with his send-off from the team after 16 years. 
Now with the Oakland Athletics, Thomas called Williams on Sunday night, left a message, and Williams returned the call. 
''I'm going to tell you this. As long as I don't hear another word about this organization or the members of this organiza­tion, I won't have another thought about this. And we'll move on," Williams said Monday. 
Thomas, speaking to reporters at the A's com­plex in Phoenix on Monday, didn't go into details about thfl conversa­tion with Williams. 
"You know, it was a heated discussion. Lasted for a while. But, I think everything that needs to be said was said," Thomas said. 

"We're linished talking. I mean, there's nothing else to talk about. Actual love lost-I mean, basically there's not much love there over the last five years," Thomas said. "So, you know, we're just mov­ing forward." 
That doesn't mean the rift has been mended. 
"Patch it up?" Williams said. "There is no patching up." 
Thomas agreed. 

"There doesn't need to be anything patched up. We're men. We can handle it over the phone. I wished we had handled it over the phone before it became 
national," he said. "And it's over. It really is." 
Williams said Thomas fenls he has be1m misquot­ed, misrepresented and taken out of context by his comments sincn the White Sox bought him out for $3.5 million in tho ofTsea­son. Earlier, Thomas said hn thought he was coming back to the White Sox and would not have participat­ed in a couple of postsea­son ceremonial duties while he was injun~d if he were not. 
"This talk could have bem1 had way back when if he'd returned my initial phone call," Williams said. 
IN BRIEF 
Agassi to skip cJ~y court sea­
son to focus on Wimbledon 
DUBAl, United Arab Emirates­Andre Agassi will skip the entire ATP clay-r.ourt season, ineluding the French Open. to improve his chances of playing at Wimbledon. 
The 35-year-old Agassi said corti­som~ injnctions are hnlping him stay on the court after sustaining a lower baek strain and a sprainc~d lnl't ankle in thn last few months. 
"It is not realistic for mn to eonsid­cn mysnll' competitive on elay," Agassi said Monday after a l'irst­round win at the Dubai Open. "Tho wnar and tnar it puts on my body has sot 11111 baek the last eoupln of yp,ars. And Wimblndon is sonwthing that I don't want to miss this ynar." 
Thn eight-time Grand Slam eham· pion hintnd that he has bonn thinking about rntirnmnnt. 
Agassi had a 6-4 record last year on clay, whnre he's won snven of his (JO earner titles. 
Charlotte is the favorite for 
NASCAR Hall of Fame 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -The race for the rights to NASCAR's Hall of Fame is in its closing laps, and chairman Brian France remains insistent that three cities are still in contention. 
Technically, that's true. In reality, the stock car racing shrine is Charlotte's to lose. 
France will never come right .out and say that, though. NASCAH's top boss instead continues to count Atlanta and Daytona Beach, Fla., among the legitimatn contenders. 
But for nithnr dty to actually win the rights, Charlotte would need to veer sharply ofT track. 
Logisties and common sense have always made Charlotte the obvious choiee to host tho llall of Fame. Although NASCAB's official head­quarters are in Daytona Beach, almost everything else is run out of Charlotte, and France himsnlf rneontly purchased a house here. 

Robertson found guilty of aggravated assualt 
CANTON, Texas -An East Texas jury on Monday found a man guilty of aggravated assault with a dnadly weapon in tlw shooting of a high school football eoar.h. 
The sanw panel then bngan eon­sidering a penalty Monday aftnrnoon for .lefT Doyal Hobertson. who faces a prison sentnnen of two to 20 ynars. The jury in this small town about hO miles east of Dallas rejected a ehargn of aggravatnd assault on a public servant in favor of tlw lnsser ehargn. 
Hobnrtson, a hnating and air con­ditioning rnpairman. shot Kinnn in April. KinnP was critically injun~d but has sitH~c' rneovPred and is on 
the  coaching  staff  of  Baylor  
University.  
Hobnrtson's  son  played  on  

Canton's frnshmnn football tnam along with Kinne's son. who was tlw quarterback. 
around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL Illinois at Minnesota, 7 p.m., ESPN LSU at South Carolina, 7 p.m., ESPN St. Joesph's at Xavier, 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
NHL 

Minnesota at Colorado, 9 p.m., OLN 

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 28, 2006 
MLB 

Special K: Rocket gives up blast to son Koby 
A Discussion on Issues Surrounding the Academic Freedom Debate 

Sunday, March 5, 2006 at 7:15pm Moreau Seminary Auditorium 
Discussion and Reception to Follow 
Sponsored hy Holy Cross Mission Center Co-Sponsored by Moreau Seminary, Campus Minist~y, Center for Social Concerns, 
Detroit closer Percival considering retirement after Sunday's outing 
Associated Press 
Roger Clemens' son took the Rocket deep on his first real pitch of spring training, crush­ing a trademark fastball over the left-field fence. 
"That was probably one of the harder fastballs I cut loose," Clemens said after throwing to son Koby and other Houston Astros minor leaguers Monday at Kissimmee, Fla. "He got my attention." 
Then the Rocket got Koby's. The next time his oldest son came to the plate, Roger buzzed him high and tight with another fastball. The younger Clemens dodged the pitch, then smiled at his father. 
"He was like, 'Sorry about that pitch inside. I was trying to change the view of the ball for you a little bit,"' said Koby, a third baseman who was drafted by Houston last summer. "I said, 'I knew what you were doing."' 
Clemens, 43, got applause from about 100 fans as he walked to the mound behind the Astros' minor-league com­plex. He threw 18 pitches from behind a screen before his 19­year-old son took him deep on his first pitch after the screen was moved away. 
Clemens threw a total of 66 pitches to Astros minor lea­guers in preparation for the World Baseball Classic, then said he's no closer to deciding his future beyond the event. Asked if he was retiring, Clemens shied away. 
''I'm not even going to men­tion that word," he said. "''ve been trying to do that for a cou­ple of years now and it's not working." 
Troy Percival might be head­ed for retirement after leaving Detroit Tigers camp in Lakeland, Fla. His locker was cleaned out Monday and the nameplate removed, and he could not be reached for com­ment. 

The four-time All-Star, 10th on the league's career saves list with 324, struggled Sunday in his inning of relief in a simulat­ed game at Joker Marchant Stadium, which included a long home run to nonroster invitee Mike Rabelo. 
"Obviously, in his mind, he doesn't think that he's ready to compete at this level," Tigers manager Jim Leyland said Monday. 
Percival, who signed a two­year, $12 million deal with the Tigers before last season, par­tially tore a muscle near his pitching elbow last July and fin­ished a 1-3 with a 5. 76 ERA and eight saves in 26 appear­ances. 
"Never was I counting on him or not counting on him," Leyland said. "The plan was to · get him in here and we'll see what unfolds and we 'II take it from there." 
The Tigers signed free agent closer Todd Jones to a two-year, $11-million deal in the offsea­son. Jones saved 40 games last season with the Florida Marlins. 
At Jupiter, Fla., Joe Borowski appears to be the leading can­didate to replace Jones with the Marlins, though the former Cubs reliever's last save came in May 2004. 
Borowski's best season came in 2003, when he had 33 saves and a 2.63 ERA. He missed much of 2004 with a shoulder injury, then broke a bone in his right forearm in spring training last year. After the Cubs released him in June, Borowski joined Tampa Bay and set a club record with 21 consecutive scoreless innings. But then he gave up 15 earned runs in his final 14 1-3 innings of the sea­son. 
At Tampa, Fla., New York Yankees outfielder Gary Sheffield took part in most drills Monday, including batting prac­tice and running, after sitting out Sunday with back spasms. 
All Students are invited to Attend 
Wednesday, March 1 7:30PM Coleman-Morse Lounge (1st floor) 
An opportunity for all students to come together and discuss the issues surrounding the Academic Freedom debate. Students will be broken up into small groups (randomly selected) to discuss the issues and then will reconvene in a large group to share the discussions. 
Please, only students. No faculty, staff, or alumni. Sponsored by Student Government. 
HOLY CRC)SS MlSSlON LEC'rURE A'f NO'rRE DAME 
I 

Kellogg Institute for International Studies, Theology department, and the Institute for Church Life 


Tuesday, February 28, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
CLUB SPORTS 
Volleyball upsets No. 5 Illini, takes fifth place 
Steves cycles to first in C road race; Ultimate stays solid in the mud 
Special to the Observer 
The Men's Volleyball club travnlnd to Indiana University to play in tho annual lloosinr-lllini Classie, tho biggnst season tour­namnnt on tho team's sclwduln. Tho Classic drew 40 teams from all over the country. 
The Irish began pool play Saturday morning with two tough losses to top-25 teams. In tlwir first match, No. 5 Illinois swept tho Irish, 25-21, 25-19. In the following match, mental errors lnd to an Irish defeat ver­sus No. 17 Utah, 25-2:3, 25-16. 
With two games left for the day, the fate of the Irish was in doubt. 
In the team's final pool-play meeting, Notre Dame quickly put away Wisconsin-B 25-17, 25-16. Sparked by junior oppo­site hitter Mike Toomey, the Irish played their best volleyball of the tournament and got the first win of an eventual four­game win streak. 
Finishing 2-1 in pool play and in third place, the next cross­over match against Cineinnati was critical if the Irish planned on advancing to the Gold Division for the first time in three yoars. 
Notre Dame played aggressive volloyball, as the Irish surprised tlw Boarcats and took the first gamo 25-19. Lod by sophomore Dan Zibton, the Irish pulled through in game two and edged out Cindnnati 27-25. 
In thoir first Gold Division 
-

NOW SELLING, 
FROM THE 1705 UNITS 
AVAILABLE FOR 

574-273-2000 
FALL 

-WALK TO CAMPUS -2-3 STORY FLOORPLANS -2 CAR ATTACHED GARAGES -2.5+ BATHROOMS -2-4 BEDROOMS 
MODEL OPEN WED-FRI 12-GPM SAT-SUN 12-SPM VISIT OUR 
...  _,..._  FURNISHED MODEL OR  
~  - OUBLI NVILLAGE.COM  
a .!@; i  435 ABBEY ST. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637  
"4:)0....  SSMITH@COOREMAN.COM  

match, the Irish faced No. 15 Ohio State. The Irish used a series of streaks behind the sorving of Drew Williams and Hyan Flynn to dominate the Buckeyes and control the entire match. Notre Dame ended up winning 25-16,25-16. 
In the second round of play, the Irish would have a rematch with Illinois. Coming off of three solid performances after their loss to the lllini, The Irish jumped early on the Illini in the first game. Behind a combina­tion of solid defense and a com­plex, forceful offense, the Irish won the game 25-2:3. 
Game two was a completely different scenario. Playing point for point to 10-10, lllinois went on an eight point run behind incredible blocking and precise serving. The Irish dug them­solves too big a hole, and ended up losing the second game 25­17. 
Cycling 
A blend of veterans and first year racers represented Notre Dame at Depauw University this weekend. Freshman Andrew Steves captured first place in the men's C road race, topping a field of 1:35 racers over the 26-mile course. 
Captain Mike Lavery, Matt Prygoski, Geoff Gisler and Tim Campbell raced in the 36-mile men's B road race, and stayed with the main pack until the last lap when multiple crashes caused by battles for position dropped the team behind the leaders. Campbell placed No. 20, Lavery No. :32, and Gisler No. 47 in a field of 115. Prygoski was victim of a crash that damaged his bike and he was unable to finish. 
Meghan Johnson placed No. 40 among 70 racers in the women's B division. Stuck behind a slower group, Johnson managed a very respectable fin­ish in her first race for the Irish. 
Ultimate 
The Notre Dame Ultimate Club traveled to Baton Rouge this weekend for the annual Mardi Gras tournament. Despite the wet and muddy fields, both the men's and women's teams played well dur­ing the two-day tournament. The women's team started out strong, easily defeating their first two opponents, Truman St and TCU, 12-3 and 11-2 respec­tively. 
The rain and wind on Saturday made the disc slippery and passes hard to throw or catch. However, that didn't stop a huge layout score from sopho­more Shields Duss during the TCU game. Senior Chris Dube was a dominant threat on the field during the games, both offensively and defensively. Great defensive play also came from freshmen, Mary Clare McGregor and Katie Bilek dur­ing the two games. 
As the day went on, tho field conditions became worse great­ly affecting play as the women went into their third game against always strong Michigan. Despite sophomore Loretta Brown snagging some discs from the air to stop the flow of Michigan's offense, the women still dropped the game B-1. 
Although the connections did­n't come for the Notre Dame offense, sophomore Libby Whiting's play was a highlight as she competed in her first ultimate tournament. The linal game of the day was against LSU. Although the game was short, Notre Dame took control winning 6-0. Excellent upwind throws from senior Lizzy Shiel made the wind not a factor in this game. 
After a miscommunication from the tournament director about game time, the Notre Dame women's team found themselves in the consolation bracket. This did not put a damper on their competitive attitude, however. The weather conditions on Sunday were much improved and the sun finally made an appearance. 
The team's opponent was sec­tional rival Indiana. The Irish shut out the Hoosiers, 10-0. Senior Kasey Farrell was a strong force in this game mak­ing impressive catches and stepping up as a handler. Junior Jeannie Joekel found her groove this game too and made a layout D to stop a score twice in the end zone along with some layouts on offense as well. Junior Rachel Meeks continual­ly broke down the zone defense with her break mark passes and sharp throws. 
The men's field boasted 52 college teams competing on slippery fields as rain continued throughout play on Saturday. The Irish swept all four oppo­nents on the day, defeating Arkansas B, Grinnell, Rice, and Florida B. Although the offense had difficulty catching the wet disc, the defense was stellar, led by freshmen Thomas Hivas and Ryan Gorman. 
Women's water polo 
Notre Dame's women's water polo club swept through four opponents before dropping the title game to Miami OH this weekend at Eastern Michigan. In the opening 16-1 victory over Dayton, every member of the club contributed to the score. 
The Irish blanked Ohio 21-0 in the second round, as Junior Caitlin Shorrock and freshman Maggie Hyde combined to regis­ter the club's first shutout or the . year. The Irish then faced the host Eastern Michigan squad, and posted a solid 12-3 win in 

The Creative Writing Program of Notre Dame Presents A Reading by 
ED FALCO 
Author of Wo(f' Point, a New York Times Editor's Choice for 2005, and a former winner of the Notre Dame Press Sullivan Prize in Fiction. 
front of thc~ir homo erowd. Thn tournament finale saw t.he Irish drop a 10-4 decision to rival Miami 011. Senior Kristy Bohling ril1ed home two goals, while junior Bridget O'Neill and freshman Kelly llorner eaeh put. a shot in the cage to account for all the scoring. 
The Irish will next !wad to California for a week-long training camp featuring games against tough west. coast varsity and elub toams. The Irish will host the division championship April 22-23 in HeMs Aquatics, with the winning team advanc­ing to the Nationals. Miami will be the top seed, with the Irish seeded second. 
Gymnastics 
The Notre Dame Gymnastics Club competed this weekend at the Indiana University Big Hod Classic. Several gymnasts had strong performances and received their highest scores of the season. The Irish continue to improve and appear to be peaking at the right time. 
The Notre Dame women were led by Anne Krishnan and Wendy Svetanoff, as each placed in two events. Krishnan placed second on beam and fourth on vault, while SvetanoiT placed fifth on vault and sixth on beam. Additionally, Krishnan placed sixth in the all-around and continues to anchor the team. Solid performances were also turned in by Cedlia Torres, Kelleen O'Leary, Kelly Pirozzi, and Maura Steed. Several gym­nasts increased the difficulty for their routines for this meet and received season high scores. The women's meet was won by Miami of Ohio. 
The Notre Dame men also turned in a strong performance. Competitors ineluded Brian Dunn, Paul Kane, and Joe Lillie. The Notre Dame men failed to field a complete team score, due to injury. The men's mont was won by the University ol' Illinois. The Irish look forward to being healthy and having a complete team at the Clovnr Classic on March 25 at Gymnastics Michiana. The Classie will complete the regu­
.--..

lar season. 
-


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 28, 2006 
NHL 

Concussions end Primeau's season 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA-Flyers cap­tain Keith Primeau will sit out the rest of the regular season nearly four months after suffer­ing another concussion, a per­son in the NIIL with knowledge of the decision told The Associated Press on Monday. 
The person spoke on the con­dition of anonymity because Primeau was going to make an official announcement Tuesday at the Flyers practice facility in New Jersey. 

Primeau was injured Oct. 25 after taking a hit from Montreal's Alexander Perez­hogin, the latest and most severe in a list of head injuries the center has sustained in a 15-year career. Primeau had not been cleared to play by Flyers doctors and a concussion specialist in Montreal had 
CLUB SPORTS 

Water polo wins four 
straight, slips in final 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame's women's water polo club swept through four opponents before dropping the title game to Miami of Ohio this weekend at Eastern Michigan. 
In the opening 16-1 victory over Dayton, every member of the club contributed to the score. 
The Irish blanked Ohio 21-0 in the second round, as Junior Caitlin Sharrock and freshman Maggie Hyde combined to register the club's first shutout of the year. The Irish then faced the host Eastern Michigan, and posted a solid 12-3 win in front of their home crowd. The tournament finale saw the Irish drop a 10-4 
-
decision to rival Miami of Ohio. Senior Kristy Bohling rifled home two goals, while junior Bridget O'Neill and freshman Kelly Horner each put a shot in the cage to account for all the scoring. 
The Irish will next head to California for a week-long training 
-· camp featuring games against tough west coast varsity and club teams. The Irish will host the divi­sion championship April 22-23 in Rolfs Aquatics, with the winning team advancing to the Nationals. Miami wiU be the top seed, with the Irish seeded second. 
Gymnastics 
The Notre Dame Gymnastics Club competed this weekend at the Indiana University Big Red Classic. Several gymnasts had strong performances and received their highest scores of the season. The Irish continue to improve and appear to be peaking at the right time. 
The Notre Dame women were led by Anne Krishnan and Wendy Svetanoff, as each placed in two events. Krishnan placed second on beam and fourth on vault, while Svetanoff placed fifth on vault and sixth on beam. Additionally, Krishnan placed sixth in the all-around and contin­ues to anchor the team. Solid per­formances were also turned in by advised him to forego playing this season and continue his rehab, leaving him with little choice but to shut it down and try and return next season. 
With his history of head injuries, even next season is in jeopardy for the 34-year-old Primeau. The person said, how­ever, that Primeau was pre­pared to try and return next year. 
Primeau did play in two more games after he was injured before symptoms forced him out of the Oct. 30 game against Ottawa. 
Primeau did not immediately return a telephone message from The Associated Press. 
He had one goal and played in only nine games for the Flyers (33-16-5) this season, and was asked by Flyers general manger Bob Clarke to make a decision by the end of the Olympic break. 
Cecilia Torres, Kelleen O'Leary, Kelly Pirozzi and Maura Steed. Several gymnasts increased the difficulty for their routines for thic; meet and received season high scores. The women's meet was won by Miami of Ohio. 
The Notre Dame men also turned in a strong performance. Competitors included Brian Dunn, Paul Kane and Joe Lillie. The Notre Dame men failed to field a complete team score, due to injury. The men's meet was won by the University of Illinois. The Irish look forward to being healthy and having a complete team at the Clover Classic on March 25 at Gymnastics Michiana. The Classic will com­plete the regular season. 
MLB 

'Hall' inducts 17 Negro Leaguers 
Record class has five pre-Negro Leaguers; 0' Neil, Minoso wait 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -Effa Manley became the first woman elected to the baseball Hall of Fame when the former Newark Eagles executive was among 17 people from the Negro Leagues and pre-Negro Leagues chosen Monday by a special committee. 
This year's Hall class -18, including former reliever Bruce Sutter -is by far the biggest in history. The previ­ous record was 11 in 1946. 
Manley co-owned the New Jersey-based Eagles with her husband, Abe, and ran the. business end of the team for more than a decade. The Eagles won the Negro Leagues World Series in 1946 

spring Specials for Students 
~, $5 off any Bikini or Brazilian wax ·1, Complimentary brow wax with any service '""t Check out our new TIGI makeup and receive 207o off of your purchase 
10% student discounts ore still honored! Just blocks from campus at 1639 N. Ironwood Drive. 
~574.243.0960i 
-one year before Jackie Robinson broke the major league color barrier. 
Manley was white, but mar­ried a black man and passed as a black woman, said Larry Lester, a baseball author and member of the voting com­mittee. 
"She campaigned to get as much money as possible for these ballplayers, and right­fully so," Lester said. 
Manley used baseball to advance civil rights causes with events such as an Anti­Lynching Day at the ballpark. She died in 1981 at age 84. 
Buck O'Neil and Minnie Minoso, the only living mem­bers among the 39 candi­dates on the ballot, were not 
elected  by  the  12-person  
panel.  
Mule  Suttles  and  Biz  

Mackey were among the 12 players selected, along with five executives. 
Ray Brown, Willard Brown, Andy Cooper, Cristobal Torriente and Jud Wilson were the other former Negro League players elected. Five pre-Negro Leaguers -Frank Grant, Pete Hill, Jose Mendez, Louis Santop and Ben Taylor -were also cho­sen. 
Alex Pompez, Cum Posey, .J.L. Wilkinson and Sol White were the other executives elected. 
The new inductees will be enshrined with Sutter ­elected by the Baseball Writers' Association of America last month -on July 30 in Cooperstown, N.Y. The new group brought the Hall's membership to 278. 
Only 18 Negro Leagues players had been chosen for the Hall prior to this election. 
The election was the culmi­nation of a Hall of Fame proj­ect to compile a complete his­tory of blacks in the game from 1860 to 1960. 


Tuesday, February 28, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS. page 17 
Panthers reached base against Miami." and held on for her llrst career at thn nnd or this ynar." her. Irish freshman Brittney complete game win. With Booth and Bargar mak­
Starters 
The two wins in Miami are a Bargar learned from her mis­"Brittney was phenomenal ing up one of the best onn-two 
continued from page 20 sign of' improvement from takes in Las Vegas and against Buffalo," Booth said. combinations in tho Big East, Notre Dame's opening tourna­cemented her role as Notre "She did exact-the team is ment in Las Vegas, Nev., in Dame's No. 2 starter in Miami ly what she eonlidnnt head­
a c:arnnr rneord of' (J9-27 and a which the this weekend. had to do." "J think !freshman pitcher ing into this 
1.71 1-:HA. "I have a lot of toam lost Even though Booth pre­season.
Brittney Bargar/ will be 
innings in tlw drciP, and I feel three of its "I know we are young, but she lost one pared Bargar "I know we my rwrvPs havn loft nw." five games. game, Bargar in the off-sea­great for the program. " are young, but
we are very solid. We have
Booth has shown her steady Booth pitched picked up a son to be her we arc vnry
great dynamics and team
rwrves already early this sna­in all five crucial win successor. solid," Booth
Heather Booth 
son, most notably in the gamns of the chemistry, and I feel better over Buffalo Booth helped said. "We havn
Irish pitcher
Golden l'anthnr Invitational Desert Classic in the tourna­Bargar great dynamics
about this team than any I 
last. weekend. Booth allowed but dropped ment to improve her and team
have played on. " 
only one narrwd run and had two decisions. impress her game and is confident of and ehnmistry, and I fnnl bnttnr 22 strikeouts in victories over "Our pitch­fellow starter. encouraged by the freshman's about this tnam than any other . Memphis and Florida ing was not Heather Booth Bargar growth. I have played on." Intor national. great in pitched a "We've been working our hit­Notrn Dame nnxl. plays
Irish pitcher
She especially dominated Vegas," Booth four-hit ters all winter," Booth said. "I Nebraska and Tulsa Friday in Florida lntnrnal.ional. In the said of the shutout think she will be great for the Tuls.a. live-inning game, Booth struck staff's performance. "It was a against the Bulls -shoulder­program and will be an excep­out half of the batters she good learning experience. But ing the responsibility when tional choice to take my spot Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at faend. and only three Golden we found our rhythm in Notre Dame's bats fell silent-on the team when I graduate jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
Hoosiers 
continued from page 20 
son, and we don't expect any­thing diiTerent from Indiana," Thompson said. "But it has lwen our singles that halve! boon getting tho job done all yoar, and that is what we arn counting on !against IndianaI." 
Thompson, junior Catrina Thompson and sophomore Brook Buck have led the Irish all season. Christian and Catrina Thompson have lost just one doubles match in the tnam's llrst nine spring con­tnsts. They are currently ranked No. 2 nationally in doublos. 
But Catrina Thompson did not compoto against No. 51 Wisconsin last Saturday due to a wrist injury, and her sta­tus remains unknown for the upcoming Indiana match. 
"Catrina has really been a big part in doubles and singles for the team this year, and we are hoping she will be able to eompete !against lndianal." Nelson said. "But we still don't [know the severity! of the injury." 
· Notre Dame will eontinue its series of home matches against Illinois Sunday. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 
Rebuild lives. 
You can help. Find out how. 
Spring Break Service Trip to the Gulf Coast-March 13 -March 17 Sponsored by the Alliance for Catholic Educa'tion 
Applications available in the ACE office, 112 Badin Hall 
Write Sports. Call 1-4543. 
NFL 
Colts sell rights to new-stadiuin 
Lucas Oil will name the 63,000-seat facility in downtown Indy 
Associated Press racing, Indianapolis television stations WISH and WRTV and 
INDIANAPOLIS Tbe The Indianapolis Star rcportnd Indianapolis Colts have sold the Monday, all citing sourees they naming rights for their new did not identifY, downtown stadium to The eompany will pay the California-based Lucas Oil Co., Colts $120 million over 20 years according to media reports. to have the 63,000-seat, 
The team was expeeted on retractable-roof facility named Wednesday to announce the Lucas Oil Stadium, WISII report­deal with Lucas, which makes ed. automotive lubricants and has Myra Borshofl' Cook, a spokes­several sponsorships in auto woman for Colts owner Jim 
Irsay, had no immediate com­ment on the reports. A recep­tionist at Covina, Calif.-based Lucas said no one with the com­pany would comment and declined to take a message. 
Lucas Oil aln'lady sponsors speedways, tractor pulls and boat races. The eompany's Web site lists itself as the oflieial oil 
Offering 
affordable 
flying lessons frotrt South Bend 
Regional Airport 

of the Indianapolis Colts. 
Colts officials said in Dece~ber tha~ they hoped thn team s success 111 recent seasons would help them bring attract possible eorporate sponsors for the stadium. 
Construction work on tlw $500 million stadium began last fall, with eompletion expected by tho start of the 200S fi)()tball season. 
The Colts will eontinue to play in the HCA Dome, their home since the team moved from Baltimore in 19S4, until the now stadium is eomplnted. 
Onee the stadium is built, the Indiana Convention Center will be expanded onto the current site of the HCA Dome. That proj­ect is slated to be llnished by 2010 at a eost of more than $400 million. 
Matt Stnward, who dirncts the state's efl'orts to attract motor­sports businesses, said that buy­ing the stadium's naming righL-; would fit Lucas Oil's growth pat­tern. 
"In the last several years, Lucas Oil has increased their marknting strategy by doing a lot of these sponsorships in tho racing industry, and they are competing on an even level, I think, with tho Penzoils and tho Quaker States of thn world," he said. 
HOLY 
CROSS 
COLLEGE 
You can advance the Catholic Mission of Holy Cross! 
HALL DIRECTORS NEEDED 2006-2007 HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
GRAD STUDENTS LAW STUDENTS 
Undergraduates are also encouraged to inquire about RA vacancies 
CONTACT RESLIFE@HCC-ND.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 28, 2006 
Seniors 
continued from page 20 
Tournament." 
The Irish enter the contest fresh off a dramatic 75-66 overtime win in Cincinnati Saturday. The Bearcats took a two-point lead with 2.4 sec­onds remaining, but LaVere found guard Lindsay Schrader on the ensuing inbounds pass. Schrader tipped the ball to fellow guard Tulyah Gaines, who hit a running layup as the buzzer sounded. 
The win was the second of the week for the Irish, who beat West Virginia Tuesday. 
"It's nice to put two games together and get two wins in a row," said Duffy, who scored 1 0 in the extra session to put the game away. "We've been on so many losing streaks this year. But we're in good posi­tion for where we need to be to beat Pittsburgh and we need to win a few games in the Big East Tournament." 
The Panthers have no such momentum. 
Pittsburgh (18-8, 9-6) lost to Rutgers Saturday in its worst offensive performance of the year. The Panthers scored a season-low 50 points and shot just 30 percent on field goals. 
Sophomore center Mercedes Walker leads Pittsburgh in scoring this season, averaging 
17.6 points a game on 49 per­cent shooting from the floor. 
She is also a force to be reckoned with under the bas­ket with 9.3 rebounds per contest. 
Junior guard Mallorie Winn 

is Pittsburgh's primary weapon on the perimeter. She averages 15.2 points per game and shoots 36 percent (48-of-134) from three-point range. 
Xenia Stewart, a freshman guard, is the only other player on the Panthers averaging in double digits. Stewart, at 6­foot, plays on the interior much of the game and aver­ages 5 rebounds a night. 
The 6-foot-3 LaVere will be the key on the inside for the Irish to stopping Pittsburgh's inside attack. LaVere scored 17 points and connected on 8­of-11 field goals against Cincinnati. 
''I'm really proud of Courtney, the way she's stepped up her game these past six or-seven [contests]," Duffy said. ''From the point of scoring and on the block, and leadership in the locker room, it's invaluable." 
Notes: 
+ 
Duffy was named Big East player of the week Monday for the second time in her career. She averaged 19.5 points and four rebounds a game in Notre Dame's two vic­tories last week. 

+ 
Senior day celebrations will begin approximately 20 minutes before the opening tip. 


Fans are encouraged to arrive early, as the team will honor Duffy and LaVere, sen­ior video assistant Janelle Tretter and senior managers Meghan Callahan and Luke Hoover. · 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Seeds 
continued from page 20 
night with vested interest. A Michigan-Ferris State tie would have allowed MacMillan's Nanooks to remain tied with the Irish and the Bulldogs at the season's con­clusion. Tiebreakers would have given the Irish seventh place and the Nanooks eighth -and sent the Bulldogs on a plane to the Land of the Midnight Sun for the first round. 
Instead, Alaska-Fairbanks will stay in South Bend for another week in preparation for this weekend's match up between the No. 8 Irish and the N0. 9 Nanooks. 
Such was the way of the par­ity-rife CCHA in its last regular season weekend. When the ice spray settled, only four teams remained unchanged in league standings -three of which were the top seeds. 
Those three teams are No. 1 Miami, No. 2 Michigan State and No. 3 Michigan. 
"Michigan State is the hottest team in the league right now," Irish head coach Jeff Jackson said. "Just from the teams we played in the second half, I think .Michigan State is playing the best hockey at the right time of the year." 
Northern Michigan jumped into the last bye slot at No. 4 with a weekend sweep of Ohio State, while Nebraska-Omaha lost its bye and slid into fifth after a loss and tie to lowly Western Michigan. 
Lake Snperior State main­

tained the No. 6 spot despite being swept by Michigan State. Ferris State, Notre Dame and Alaska-Fairbanks emerged from the tiebreaker scuffle to finish at No.7, No.8 and No.9, respectively. 
Ohio State plummeted from No. 7 to No. 10 after being swept by Northern Michigan, and Western Michigan swapped places with Bowling Green to escape last place. 
No. 5 Nebraska-Omaha will host No. 12 Bowling Green in a series less lopsided than the pairings suggest. UNO has a duo in Hobey Baker hopeful junior Scott Parse (19 goals, 40 assists) and Bill Thomas (25 goals, 21 assists) that Jackson describes as the two-man com­bination in the league. 
"The biggest thing will.be how the goaltending holds up for both teams," Jackson said. "Bowling Green's got a pretty good one-two punch too in [Jonathon] Matsumoto and [Alex] Foster. I'd expect Bowling Green to give Nebraska a little bit of trouble, but it's all going to be based on them getting solid goaltend­ing." 
Bowling Green has two goalies who split time in net ­.fohn Horrell C3.36 goals against average) and Jimmy Spratt (4.44). Freshman Jerad Kaufmann holds a 2. 77 goals against for Nebraska-Omaha. 
No. 6 Lake Superior State will take on surging Western Michigan at home. Western Michigan forward and CCHA rookie of the week Jeff Lovecchio must help his team navigate through a strong Lakers defense. Junior Jeff Jakaitis boasts a stellar 2.25 
goals against average and a save percentage of .919 for Lake Superior in 33 appear­ances. 
"Usually defense beats offense, and that's the nature of that series," Jackson said. 
No. 7 Ferris State welcomes No. 10 Ohio State to Big Hapids, Mich. in a surprising role reversal of fortunes. The fallen Buckeyes look to ride goaltender Dave Caruso and his 2.16 goals against average over a Ferris State team fresh off a 3-point weekend against Michigan. Ohio State must neu­tralize senior center Greg Rallo (16 goals, 21 assists) and get offense from sophomore Tom Fritsche (11 goals, 19 assists) and junior Andrew Schembri (12 goals, 11 assists) if it hopes to survive the first round. 
"Ohio State's really had a tough year," Jackson said. "They've had a lot of injuries and I think that that puts them at a disadvantage. But there's always the X-factor and that's [Caruso!. in my opinion he's probably the best goalie in the league." 
The final pairing of the first round is No. 8 Notre Dame ver­sus No. 9 Alaska-Fairbanks in a rematch of last weekend. The Irish had a chance to move up to sixth place with a sweep of Fairbanks, but remain satisfied with the last home spot. 
"We were in 12th place at Christmas time, and our team deserved with their efforts in the second half, to get home ice," Jackson said. "But now we have to take advantage of it." 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 



Tuesday, l~ebruary 28, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
EUGEN lA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 40 DOWN 
CELEBRITIES HORN ON THIS DAY: Chelsea Clinton, 26: Rownda "Chilli" Thomas, 35: Elizabeth Taylor, 74: Joanne Woodward, 76
Round after the 42 Bamboozle 1 "Nova" subj. 
quarters 
2 Grab a bite Happy Birthday: You have the potential to reach your goals. make financial gains
43 Attack 

and slarl some very exciting new projects this year. Don't waste loo much lime
6 Sweetheart 3 AWOL trackers 
45 Number on pondering the possibilities--lake action. By late fall of this year. lhc tahlcs will 
10 Music staff 
either side of a + 4 Nest-egg turn and it will he too late to start. Your numhers arc I. X. I0, 26. 33, 41 symbol 
investment,47 Time-honored ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Encourage the people around you, even if you aren'l
14 Frank who briefly 
gelling the same in retunr. You will divert everyone's attention, allowing you to
directed "It's a 49 "Othello" villain 5 Sleigh driver 
push your ideas to the forefront. *** 
Wonderful Life" 
50 Paycheck abbr. 6 Look without TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You can rely on others to bend a little to help you 15 Noisy quarrels do your own thing. Take your time: Rushing will lead to mistakes. Organit.ation
buying
52 

will enable you to carry your plans to completion. **** 
16 Come-on 7 Geological span 
GEMINI (May 2I-.Junc 20): Not everyone will understand what you arc trying
55 Penetrated 

17 8 Sense of to accomplish. Your imagination and creative talent will help. However, you'll need 57 Mattei card the hacking of someone who is convinced you really have something to work with
wonder20 Stranded 
game if you wanllo fulfill your dreams.***** motorist's need 9 Cold war initials CANCER (.June 21-July 22): You have everything under control so slop yucstioning
58 Answers to 17-, 

your every move. You can push your ideas on everyone around you and get the 22-, 40-and support you need or you can make a financial move 1ha1 will ensure greater future 
21 Bump off 1oAmtrak amenity 
22 11 Rest atop
52-Across, security. Love is in a high cycle. *** 28 Stridex target literally 12 Come after LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Everything will hoi! down to how you handle money and investments. If you hclieve in something, make sure you arc truly investing in
29 Bank take-back, 65 Gofer: Abbr. 13 Celebratory 
yourself and not someone else's ideas or l(lrtune. Changes at home will he linanciallybriefly suffix beneficial. * * * 
66 Letters 30 #1 Oak Ridge 18 Hither's 
VIRGO (Avg. 23-Sept. 22): There will he plenty on the line today, cspcdally 67 Bridal path where partnerships arc concerned. Someone you love and care for will cause
Boys hit opposite 
problems. A business relationship can he made bcllcr through communication. *** 
32 Swelling 68 Flower fanciers 19 Watched over 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will rcprc~enl yourself well today if you go for shrinker an interview or talk with a networking group about your pursuits. Make changes 
69 C &W mecca, 22 Slap target, 
that will help put you in a higher earning bracket--they will turn out hcller than
35 Star's part with "the" sometimes 
anticipated. *** 39 Nasdaq unit: 70 Band with the 23 "Wag the Dog" 38 Fund, as a 50 Answer choice 59 Easy mark SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Play whatever game you want and you will win. Abbr. 1 984 hit "Legs" actress Anne university chair on a test You will he ahle to outmaneuver the competition and stir up interest in whatever 60 Madam's mate you want to do. Money mailers can he resolved ami investments made. Changes 
24 La Scala 
51 EmployedANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE production 61 Designer
41 Yours, in Ypres to your personal life will he beneficial. ***** 
53 Austin-to-Dallas SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21): This can turn into a very iffy day, depending
Claiborne

25 Corn holder 44 Scams on the choices you make. Research and learn all you can about something you want
dir. 
to do. A personal connection may he introuhle. Arguments will Ctllpl if you arc too
26 In sum 62 Suffix with 
46 "Hagar the 54 November solo forthright. ** 27 "Z" actor Horrible" birthstone CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.lan. 19): You may yuestion the changes taking place Montand cartoonist around you hut adapt as yuickly as possible so you don'tlose. Your charm and
55 Wound protector 63 "Strange Magic" 
Browne grp. diplomacy will help you gel your way. lind out secret information and lead In an
31 Paul Simon's 
56 Jules Verne advancement. **** '' Rock" 48ln a gloomy way captain 64 Autumn mo. AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. Ill): You may feel let down today by someone you 33 First name of thought you could count on. Face the facts and he honest with yourself. *** PISCES Web. 19-March 20): Everything is looking very good as long as you
the second first For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a don't gel your dander up and argue a moot point. Trying to gel your way will he alady 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. waste of time. Explore new avenues and you will achieve.*** 34 Chromosome 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
constituent Birthday Bahy: You arc yuick to respond and like to take control. You aj1proach
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
everything you do uniquely and always allracl a lot of allenlion. You arc intuitive,
7.-+-:=:+.:::+::-;+=+:~ 36 Bounding main Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 unpredictable and very innovative. 
37 Vowel' sound in past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). "phone" and Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young Eugenia's Weh sites: astroadvicc.com li>r fun. eugcnialast.com for conridcntial "home" solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. consultations 

SCOTT ADAMS

JOCKULAR 
ADAM FAIRHOLM

CROISSANTWORLD JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RUCRY 
1 

rJ I I 
@2006 Tribune Media Se!VIces, Inc. 
All Rights Rese!Ved.  
BLOIM  
1  rJ  I I  
PINGYT  
I [ J www.jumble.comtRAYNPT  I I  
J []  I I  

Print ~here: .. [ 
Jumbles: DEMON 
Yesterday's 

Answer: What the cobbler did on a hot, humid day­"SHOO-ED" FLIES 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
WHE:N THE BEAUTY QUEE:N BE:AT THE: BOWL-ER BY ONE:, ?HE WA? A--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
I I Jrn.. 
(Answers tomorrow) 
FINIS BEHOLD SYMBOL 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
-


Irish look for conference win on Senior Night to end regular season 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will honor its sen­iors and play for an improved conference tournament seed when it hosts Pittsburgh at 7 
p.m. in the Joyce Center tonight. 
The Irish are fighting for an NCAA Tournament bid and also can improve their seed in the upcoming Big East Tournament in Hartford, Conn., with a win. Depending on the outcome of this week's conference games, Notre Dame can finish anywhere from No. 8 to No. 11. 
"Playi.r;g one last time on the JACC floor is going to be awe­some, but everyone on the team knows what's at stake," said point guard Megan Duffy, who will be honored alongside fellow senior co-captain Courtney LaVere before the game on Senior Night. "We need to win if we want to get in the NCAA 
see SENIORS/page 18 
Left, Irish guard Megan Duffy shoots and forward Courtney LaVere, at right, handles the ball in a 66-48 win over Providence on Feb. 4.
•
PHOTOS BY PHIL HUDELSON 
page 20· 

Bargar lead ND starters 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Notre Dame has played only two tournaments thus far this season, but it already has discov­ered the value of its pitching ­starting with senior Heather Booth, its No. 1 ace. 
The former Big East rookie of the year and t\Vo-time first-team All-Big East pitcher has dominat­ed hitters as a starter since she . her freshman season. 
Booth assumed the role of No. 1 starter her first year and has not relinquished that position. She started at least 30 games all three seasons and has struck out more than 200 batters in each of the past two seasons -all rea­sons why she is confident and anxious to continue her domi­nance. 
"As a senior, all my pressures are settled," said Booth, who has 
see STARTERS/page 17 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish host Indiana in battle of top-40 teams 
Injury may sideline Irish junior Catrina Thompson Tuesday 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
No. 7 Notre Dame returns to the Eck Tennis Pavilion to face No. 31 Indiana two days after completing a weekend sweep of two ranked competitors. 
Despite its successful week­end and a 9-0 record (including two top-10 victories), the Irish will not overlook the Hoosiers, Irish senior Kelly Nelson said. 
"We have gotten off to a great start because everyone has been playing really well, especially in close matches," Nelson said. "But we have taken every match seriously, no matter where they stand in the rankings." 
The Hoosiers are 9-2 coming off a 5-2 win over No. 28 Tennessee Saturday. It was the team's second victory over a ranked opponent this season. 
Indiana beat No. 52 Western Michigan 5-2 on Jan. 15. 
Doubles partners sophomore Brianna Williams and fresh­man Sigrid Fischer led. the Hoosiers Saturday, earning their first doubles win over a ranked opponent when they beat the Tennessee's Blackeley Griffith and Victoria Jones (No. 58, 8-2). 
"Their win over Tennessee definitely shows that they can compete with top teams in the country," Irish junior Christian Thompson said. "But hopefully our doubles teams will play as well as they have been this season and help us win the doubles point early in the match." 
Indiana had impressive wins in its singles matches against · Tennessee, as well. 
Sarah Batty (8-3) played at No. 1 for Indiana and won in straight sets. No. 2 Laura McGaffigan and No. 3 Brianna Williams also impressed in the Indiana victory. 
"We have gone against tough opponents in singles this sea-
see HOOSIERS/page 17 
HOCKEY 

CCHA playoff m_atchups are set 
Miami (Ohio) leads conference with top seed in tournament 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
When Ferris State junior for­ward Zac Pearson beat Michigan goalie Billy Sauer 42 seconds into overtime for a 4-3 win on Saturday night in Ann Arbor, he not only scored the game-winning goal -he also saved his team a 3,500 mile road trip. 
Pearson's goal launched the Bulldogs into sole position of seventh place in the CCI-lA. The goal also had far reaching implications on the rest of the conference. Fifth through eighth place receive opening round home ice, while the first four seeds gain a bye in the 12­team league. 
Alaska-Fairbanks head coach Tavis MacMillan followed the Ferris State game via computer from the Joyce Center press box after his team's 2-1 victory over the Irish on Saturday 
see SEEDS/page 18 


Irish sophomore Mark Van Guilder passes the puck during Notre Dame's 3-2 loss to !VIichigan State Feb. 4. The Irish may face the Spartans in the second round of the CCHA Tournament. 

MU3 

CUJf! SPORTS CI.UB SPORTS 
AlP
MlB 
NBA 
LLI 
Co) 

Hoosier-lllini Hawks 106 
z Former Negro Leagues Notre Dame women's 
Classic 
Koby Clemens blasted 

After going 6-4 on 
Nets 104

::5 executive Effa Manley water polo went 4-1 this a home run off his clay courts last year, became the first woman 
weekend, including Notre Dame men's 
father, Roger, on the first Andre Agassi said he Atlanta forward Josh

~ 

elected into the baseball wins over Miami (Ohio) · volleyball upset No. 5 pitch the son saw in a 
would not play any 
Smith hit a jumper with 
c::c 
Hall of Fame Monday. 

and Eastern Michigan. 
Illinois and took fifth simulated spring train-tournaments on the sur­
two seconds left in over-place in the 40-plus­
ing game Monday. 

face this year. 
time to beat New Jersey team tournament. 
Monday. 
= 

page 16 page 16 
page 15 
page 14 page 13 page 12 





