
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Week to address sexual violence 
Task force tries to raise male awareness of issue 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
The members of a new task force, Men Against Violence (MAY) have decided the male population of Notre Dame can no longer listen passively to criticism from women about rape and sexual assault -and to See Also addwss this eon­
"Awareness
cern, they are leading an initia­week to address tive to encourage 
sexual assault" 
men to take a proactive stam~e page4 against sexual violence. 
The MAY, a task force that origi­·nated within the Gender Relations 
see MAY/page 6 


SMC tuition increase to grolV for 2006-07 
Students express dissatisfaction with rising tuition bill; College credits inflation, high costs 
LAURA BAUMGARTNER 
News Writer 
As costs and inflation continue to rise, tuition increases will once again lighten Saint Mary's students' pockets next year. 
The March 21 announcement of a planned five percent increase in tuition and fees and three percent increase in room and board at the College has raised concern among students across campus. 
The Board of Trustees considered the proposed increase at meetings on Feb. 23 and 24, and voted to approve a greater change in tuition than it origi­nally planned. The average cost of attendance for a resident student will rise from $32,538 this year to $34,005 next year. 
"A three-percent increase in the room and board rate is the amount used in the multi-year projections we utilize as part of our planning process," Vice President of Finance and Administration Laurie Stickelmaier said. "We had originally projected a four percent increase in tuition, but substan­tial increases in utilities and benefits costs last year moved the Board to approve an increase of five percent." 

Though some students are concerned about the increasing cost of attending Saint Mary's, Stickelmaier said rising inflation rates and expenses incurred by the College have rendered the increase inevitable. 
"Saint Mary's, like colleges and uni­versities across the country, raises tuition and fees in an effort to keep pace with inflation and stay operationally strong," Stickelmaier said. 
see TUITION/page 6 

Saint Mary's fultlon Increase  
Coat of Attandallet 2005-2008: tS2~5S8 Coat of AHettdanee 20064001: tJ-4,005  
lr~ereases for 2005-2006  lttereattt for 2008-2007  
4~ fuitfo11 artd Fees J1C lo01w and Joard  ~~ fultlon and Fees J1C toollt and Joard  

ALEXAANTEKEIER/Observer Graphic 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Alleged assault reported 
SMC says NDSP will lead investigation 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Editor 
A Saint Mary's student was allegedly sexually assaulted on Notre Dame's campus late Friday evening or early Saturday morn­ing, according to an e-mail sent to Saint Mary's students Monday morning by Vice President of Student Affairs linda Timm. 
In the e-mail, Timm said the alleged victim had "just informed" College officials of the situation and "all campus services have been offered to [the alleged vic­tim] for her support and [Saint Mary's] will continue to provide assistance to her throughout her healing process." 
The alleged victim went to the hospital for "appropriate medical attention," the e-mail said, though information on when that visit occurred was not made available to The Observer. 
Saint Mary's spokeswoman Melanie McDonald would not comment on the details of the sit­uation, noting the investigation of the alleged incident is now in the hands of Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP). 
"Saint Mary's responsibility was to issue a warning e-mail to stu­dents about what had been reported to us, and we did that," McDonald said. "Saint Mary's also has the responsibility to offer all the support we can to the student who came to us, and right now we are doing all we can for her." 
NDSP associate director Phil Johnson said NDSP is currently investigating the report of an alleged sexual assault that 
see ASSAULT/page 4 



Professor lectures on moral disagreement, Natural Law 

By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
Renowned Notre Dame phi­losophy professor Alasdair Macintyre questioned 13th cen­tury Catholic theologian Thomas Aquinas' idea of the universality of primary precepts -morals such as honesty, the preservation of human life and respect for others' property ­at a lecture delivered to a near­ly-packed hall Monday. 
"My aim is to open up ques­tions, not to secure agreement," Macintyre said. "I hope to leave you more troubled." 
While Aquinas' Natural Law teaches that primary precepts are the same for all individuals and should therefore be obeyed by everyone, Macintyre said Natural Law is questionable because it suggests people should find a greater sense of uniformity and agreement con­cerning issues of morality. 
Macintyre examined dispari­ties in Aquinas' argument caused by five types of moral disagreement varying approaches to upholding human life, instances of tor­ture, human sexuality, honor and loyalty and economic fair­ness. 
"Rationality requires being together with other people," Macintyre said. "[When we engage in dialogue with others] we find that we disagree radi­cally. We should treat solitary deliberation as always resulting in error. Rationality is essen­tially social." 
Macintyre is recognized inter­nationally for his contributions to moral philosophy. His pub­lished books include "After Virtue," "Whose Justice? Which Rationality?," "Three Rival Versions of Moral En9uiry" and "Dependent Rational Animals." He has also taught at Oxford. Princeton, Duke and Vanderbilt. 
The lecture "Moral Disagreement" -was part of the Scholar in the Classroom lecture series sponsored by the Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Potty Training 101 
You can stop searching through your 
course schmJule; this is not a dass that 
is b!ling ofTernd n!lXt semester as an 
nasy "A." Not ynt atlnasl. In casn some 
of you failed to realize, I would like to 
point somnthing out. Laura 
Unfortunatdy, we are 
not living in a fivn-Baumgartner star rnstaurant 
Wire Editor 
nquippnd with kind 
bathroom atten­
dants to hand you a townl and elnan up 
after you oncn you arn finished using 
the f'adlities. Most of us are in fact liv­
ing in dorms. This can only mean one 
thing -public bathrooms. Which 
translatns into no bathroom attendant, 
and no, sadly our mothers aren't here 
to doan up after us nither. 
Enter "Polly Training 101." This is 

designed to give college students a 
crash course in bathroom ntiquelle. 
Now. somn of thesp concepts may seem 
radical and possibly even crazy. Just 
try to stay strong and keep an open 

mind. and hopefully we will all learn a 
littln something. 
Lesson One: K!wping Your Business Wlwre Your Business Belongs. Now, you might think that since we am eol­lege students that by this stage or our lives we would fully understand the purpose of toilets and urinals. The evi­dnncn we leave bnhind however, could load people to belinve othnrwise. 
This lnsson is a simpln one, but you will bn tested later so if you feel it is neeessary please tako notns. 
First. them is only onn plaec to go number two -this may seem like common snnsn, but believe mn for sonw people this eom~ept is still a mys­tnry -and that placn is in the toilnt. That's right I said IN tho toilet. not nnar tho toilet on the floor, or on tho toilet seat, but actually IN the toilet. (And af'tnr that you flush. But, let's not get ahnad of ourselves hero -flushing is a later lesson). 
Sncond, numbnr one also belongs IN the toilet. Little dribbles on the seat will rnsult in a lowering of your grade. There's paper in the bathroom for a reason, crumple some up (unless you're a folder, then by all means fold) and put it to good usn. No one likes a wet seat. 
Lnsson Two: These Aren't Bedpans, They Do Actually Flush. There has been somo confusion around campus about this subject, so we are going to dear this situation up early. Yes, some of tho toilets are old and don't have the power of a Flush-o-matic 2006, but that shiny silver handle-like object on tho baek of the toilet dons serve a pur­posn. It's not just them to make thfl toi­let look pretty. While it might require morn than one push, the little guys can get the job donn and remove any unsightly material that might be occu­pying the bowl. 
Well. we're running short on time hem and I don't want to overwhelm anyone on the first day. Quick review of the key eoneopL'i and then class will bn dismissed. Hemnmbnr the key con­cepts here are "in the toilet" and "flush." 
Praetice makes pnrfect, people, so get out there and use your new found knowledge. 
Contact /,aura Baumgartner at 
lbaumgO I @sain tmarys. edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column a·re those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

I )uc to an editorial error, the headline "Changes to CWII. policy spark student re-action" in the March 24 t'tlition ofThe ( >bscrver was inaccurate. The policy has not changt'<l this year. Due to a reponing error, the same article states applicants did not receive grants !or as much :L~ 6'i percent oftheir proposed budgets without mentioning this yt-ar, I 0 high-nct-d and high-merit pro­posal' were awardt-d 75 percent oftheir proposed budg­ets. 'llw ( )bserver rt-grets the errors. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, March 28, 2006 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT TEAM WILL WIN THE NCAA TOURNAMENT? 



Katie McCann  Tom Junker  Heather Elson  
freshman  freshman  freshman  
Welsh Family  Keenan  Lyons  
"George  "!think we  "LSU."  
Mason. "  should demolish  
Stanford to  
make room for  
the Keenan  
Revue  
Auditorium. "  





Brian Kantor  Patrick Nugent  Erin Simon  
freshman Keough  freshman Keough  freshman Cavanaugh  
"LSU-Big Baby is an unstoppable force."  "Duke will rise from the ashes to win it all ... but LSU will really win. "  "Notre Dame ... wait, never mind."  


OFFBEAT 
Go to bed married, wake up divorced 
NEW DELIII -A Muslim eouple in India has been told by local Islamie leaders they must separate after the hus­band "divorced" his wife in his sleep, the P.ress Trust of India reported. 
Sohela Ansari told friends that her husband Aftab had uttered the word "talaq," or divorce, three times in his sleep, aceording to the report published in newspapers Monday. 
When local Islamic leaders heard, they said Aftab's words constituted a divorce under an Islamic procedure known as "triple talaq." The couple, married for 11 years with three children, were told they had to split. 
The religious leaders ruled that if the couple wanted to remarry they would have to wait at least 100 days. Sohela would also have to spend a night with another man and be divorced by him in turn. 
The couple, who live in the eastern state of West Bengal, have refused to obey the order and the issue has been referred to a loeal family counseling center. 
Dial N for naked 

LONDON -Up to a third of telephone users in Britain make calls in the nude, with 
men more prone to do it 
without clothes than women, 
a survey revealed on 
Thursday. 

Research commissioned by Britain's Post Office, which offers a fledgling home phone service, revealed that 40 per­cent of men admitted to chat­ting naked compared with 27 percent of women. The . results were based on a sur­
vey of 1 ,500 telephone users. 
The research also showed 
that people were so busy that 
one in 10 people admitted to 
wandering off and leaving the 
caller talking to t.homselves. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::1: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
.... 
c( (..) 


...I 0 HIGH 45 HIGH 36 HIGH 53 HIGH 65 LOW 36 LOW 30 LOW 40 LOW 43 
~ 
IN BRIEF 

Harvard University professor Laurel Thatcher Ulrich, the Pulitzer Prin~-winning au1J10r of "A Midwifi~'s T'aln," will bn giving a lee­lure on why "Well-Behaved Women Seldom Make History" Wednesday at 4::{0 p.m. as part of the Provost's Distinguished Women's Leeturn Serins. 
Internationally acclaimed milage and montage artist Winston Smith will bn Visiting Artist in thn Saint Mary's Art Department Wednesday IJmmgh Friday. lie will be giving a public presentation of his works at 7 p.m. Wlmnesday in room 232 of the Moreau Center for the At1s. 
O'Neill Hall will host IJm "O'Neill Spotlight" -a faeeoff with McGlinn -Thursday at 8 p.m. The event will feature singers, comedians and dancers from O'Neill a<; well as karaoke and free food. 
Saint Mary's seniors Emily Fannon, Sinnamon Wolfe, Amanda Caddy and Amber Painter will host a senior c,ompre­hensive art gallery opening Friday from 5 p.m. to 7 in the Moreau Art Galleries in the Moreau Center fbr the Arl'>. The event L<; free and the public is welcome to attend. 
Famnd Notre Dame head football coach Lou Holtz will give a lecture on "Catholicism and Competition" Friday from 7 p.m. to S::lO in the Stepan Center. The event is spon­sored by Student Government as part of the Catholic Think Tank of America Lecture Series. Notre Damn, Saint Mary's and lloly Cross students must present student ID at the door for admittancn. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Obsenwr, e-mail detailed infonna­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 62 HIGH 55 LOW 45 LOW 38 
Atlanta 60/ 44 Boston 50 I 35 Chicago 481 36 Denver 63 I 29 Houston 73 I 62 Los Angeles 61 I 53 Minneapolis 43 I 31 New York 56 I 38 Philadelphia 57 I 33 Phoenix 75 I 60 Seattle 55 I 41 St. Louis 57 I 42 Tampa 72 I 52 Washington 60 I 40 
Tuesday, March 28, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Nevv officers take over 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
Student government officers said goodbye to senior leaders and welcomed fresh faces at the Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) meeting Monday night at the second floor of the Student Center. 
The transition meeting took place with all members of the old BOG board present so the new board could get a better under­standing for how the meetings operate, student body president Kellye Mitros said. 
"This is a little bit different [than normal]. but you guys get the idea," Mitros said. 
Student body president-elect and current student body vice president Susan Mcllduff intro­duced the new board members who will officially take their posi­tions at next week's meeting. 
Mcllduff and vice president­elect Maggie Siefert have appointed 16 of the 23 board members, seven of whom they introduced at the meeting. These board members will be presiding along with Seifert over the BOG meetings during the 2006-07 school year. 
After introducing the new board members, current Residence Hall Association presi­dent Jackie Wright reminded members the Dance Marathon is taking place April 21 from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. the following morning. 
"It is 10 dollars per dancer, but you do get a free t-shirt," Wright said. 
Dancer sign-up packets are due by Friday afternoon, freshman class president Francesca Johnson said. 
At the end of the meeting, Mitros became tearful as she addressed the board for the last time as president. 
"I just wanted to say thank you to all of you ... from the bottom of my heart for making this such a wonderful experience for me." Mitros said. 
In other BOG news 
+"We already started our Facebook ads, and tickets are 'already being sold [for the Saint Mary's Tostal]," Student Activities Board [SAB] president Megan Cahill said. 
The Tostal will take place Thursday, April 6 and will feature nationally touring music group Phantom Planet. 
+SAB and Student Diversity Board [SOB] are hosting a dance April 28 from 8-10 p.m., Cahill said. Proceeds will go to the new SOB scholarship. 
+The F-word, a women's issues news letter, will be distributed the week of April 3, women's issues commissioner Katie Kelly said. The publication is accepting sub­missfons of poetry and essay excerpts until April 3. 
Contact Liz Harter at eha.rteO 1 @sain tmarys.edu 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 


Group concentrates on transition 
By KATHLEEN McDONNELL News Writer 
At the final Council of Representatives (COR) run by the current student govern­ment administration Monday night on the second floor of LaFortune, members dis­cussed the year's operations and approved a number of key council members for next year's term. 
The meeting focused on transition, as COR members evaluated this year's progress and planned for the student government turnover April 1. 
Student body president Dave Baron thanked council members for their time and effort, and cited the differ­ence COR has made this year in student government, par­ticularly in the area of com­munity relations. 
He then opened the floor to suggestions as to how the Baron administration could have done a better job run­ning student government. 
Representatives praised the administration's progress and offered suggestions to improve relations with the entire student body in the face of increasing apathy. Topics of discussion included ideas for improved campus stall notes, a general student homepage with links to all aspects of student govern­ment and programming and 
more open student govern­ment meetings in order to increase student input. 
President-elect Lizzi Shappell said increasing stu­dent participation by holding public student government meetings is a central part of her platform. She said stu­dents could expect to see this in the upcoming 
paign. Campus voter partici­pation is approximately 50 percent, she said, and she proposed a number of initia­tives with the goal of 67-per­cent participation in the next election. 
Chris Harris was approved as an academic delegate. He said he plans to continue 
work on 
year. teacher course
"Basically, there will
The group evaluations. made adminis­be about six Harris said the trative progress mulitple choice committee has by approving worked with
questions sometime 
nominees and the administra­discussing their in the next academic tion for a por­plans for the year added to the tion of the eval­upcoming uations to be
teacher course
administration. available for all
evaluations.,,
Patrick Vassel, Notre Dame confirmed as students to Student Union Chris Harris view. 
"Basically,
Board (SUB) COR academic delegate
Manager, plans to increase the participation of the hall rep­resentatives who are a. rela­tively recent addition to SUB. 
Beth Melia, Agus Galmarini and BethAnn Viscelgia were confirmed as co-director of programming, director of operations and director of publicity, respectively, for SUB executive board 2006­2007. 
In a prepared statement, Judicial Council president­elect Liz Kozlow said she intends to improve the peer advocacy program and initi­ate a get-out-the-vote cam-
there will be 
about six multi­ple choice questions some­time in the next academic year added to the teacher course evaluations," Harris said. "All students will be able to access the results online." 
In addition, Catherine Martinez was confirmed as Student Union Secretary, and Chris Mueller and Kadeja Gaines will be assistant Student Union Treasurers for the upcoming year. 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 



1 r ·, <:' 1 
I),\, \11'. LENOVO A.r~JD THE t~OTRE DAr111E COIV1PUTER STORE TEA lJP T(J BRiriJG 

YOU GR.EAT SA\fltiiGS ON TBI~JKPAIJS AMo.··.· p·r.: Ac:··c:Ess'O·RIEs.~.·.
~~ v '. ..· * .. .•. . ... 



'1~, Uk<t »Z'ikffl·~f 1:4 !h&&t ~fokr!lll U!~ttl .;mt(l 'TI>ltfL thtt (~! ;~!! 
www.l enovo.comlshopldeals/notredarne 
1 ;r? zn &4Zt< Opt;;;r; 1. ,;)1 ®111@; 
lhir~Pk:i 't"" ~,~l>1ud Uf'l..i!>"~'\l\? 
.<:-. : .··.·.,-::···· 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 28, 2006 



Assault 
continued from page 1 
occurred in a Notre Dame resi­dence hall early Saturday morn­ing. But he could not confirm whether this ca<>e wa<> the same as or rnlatnd to thn one reported by thn Saint Mary's student. 
When asked whether the ca<>es could be related, Johnson said NDSP did not use school affilia­tions as classifications in police reports. 

He said only one alleged sexual assault was reported to NDSP last weekend. 
In the case under investigation by NDSP, Johnson said the alleged victim knew the alleged perpetra­tor. 
Johnson said he could not pro­vide any further information and 


A-wareness -week to address sexual assault 
By RYAN SYDLIK News Writer 
Notre Dame studnnt govern­ment has dubbed this week Sexual Assault Awareness Week, and has planned several featured events to edueate University students about sexual assault and other gender rela­tions topies. 
The Senate Gender Issues Committee, chaired by Ali Wishon, is responsible for plan­ning the week. 
This is the second year for the event, whieh began when Senate Gender Issues Committee then-ehairperson Lizzi Shappell was ehargnd with starting an awareness week challenging the campus to think about issues of sexual assault. 
The first flagship events marking this year's week is "Dating, Helating and the Hook­up Culture," a performance in which FIHEStarter peer eduea­tors p'erform sketches and involve audience membnrs in a presentation designed to address campus relationship and sexual assault issues. The first event took place in Pangborn Hall Monday night and the second will take place tonight at 9:15 p.m. in Farley IIall. 
The play "Sex Signals: The Heal Life, Funny, Sort-of lmprov Show about Dating and Other Stuff" is an educational play about issues of sexual assault and date rape relating to the college experience to be per­formed Tuesday at 9 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library's Carey Auditorium. 
"Must Sex T.V.," is a video showing that will take place Thursday, March 30 in various residence halls. 
The video uses childhood tele­vision shows to "assess how we may have been exposed to gen­der stereotypes and sexual assault in our favorite pro­grams," Shappell said. 
Shappell said those interested in watching the video should talk to their hall president for more information about show­ings. 
In addition to specific events, Sexual Assault Awareness Week is related to the launch of the newly created Men Against Violence (MAY) group, a Gender Relations Committee (GRC) task force composed of men commit­ted to ending sexual violence and domestic abuse. 
"Student Government Sexual Assault Awareness Week has brought together the Student Senate Gender Relations Committee and the Gender Relations Center (GRC), in addi­tion to many generous sponsors, to offer programs and aware­ness campaigns," Shappell said. 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 

GMATReview 
6 Wednesdays · April 26 to May 31 6-10 p.m. $395 


LSAT Review 4 Saturdays April 29 to May 20 8 a.m.-noon $324 
GRE Review 7 Wednesday May 10-June 21 6 · 10 p.m. $449 

Mention this ad and get a 5~··o d:scount. Division of Extended Learning Services 
IU South Bend Call 574-520-4261 to enroll or visit VNvw. iusb.edu/-cted 
said the case was undergoing fur­ther investigation. 
On the March 25 NDSP crime blotter, an entry wac;; made at 6:10 
p.m. regarding a "sex offense" incident involving "deviate con­duct" that occurred in Zahm Hall student, but again said NDSP received only one report of an alleged sexual assault la<>t week­end. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 



ATTENTION ClASS OF 2008 
NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR THE 


JPW 2007 
Committee 
Apply by :J\1arch 31st for any of the follo\ving positions: 
Chairperson  Gala Chair  Workshop Chairs:  
Vice-Chairperson  Dinner Chair  Arts & Letters  
Graphic Designer  Brunch Chair  MCOB  
Secretary  Mass Chair  Science  
Treasurer  Hospitality Chair  Engineering  


Position Descriptions and Applications can be found on the JPW website: 




CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN


STUDENTS 

The former "Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs" is expanding and seeking new undergraduate student members, regardless of sexual orientation. The newly structured council, the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students is now accepting applications. 
Applications are available in the Office of Student Affairs (316 Main Building) or on the Core Council web site http:1/corecouncil.nd.edu/ Applications are due by 5:00p.m. on Tuesday, March 28, 2006, and can be submitted to the Office of Student Affairs. 
Please visit our web site for more information. 
between 2:30 a.m. and 9 a.m. Saturday morning. , Johnson could not confirm whether this was either the alleged sexual assault case under investigation or the alleged inci­dent reported by the Saint Mary's 





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, March 28, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S w1 RE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Raid stifles Iraqi government talks 
BAGHDAD -Shiite politicians raged at the United States and halted negotiations on a new government Monday after a military assault . killed at least 16 people in what Iraqis claim was a mosque. Fresh violence erupted in the north, with 40 killed in a suicide bombing. 
The firestorm of recrimination over Sunday's raid in northeast Baghdad will likely make it harder for Shiite politicians to keep a lid on their more angry followers as sectarian violence boils over, with at least 150 dead since Sunday. A unity government involving Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds is a benchmark for American hopes of starting to withdraw troops this summer. 
The U.S. military said in a statement that "no mosques were entered or damaged during this operation." It said the raid targeted a building used by "insurgents responsible for kidnapping and execution activities." 
Afghan convert evades death penalty 
KABUL -An Afghan man who faced the death penalty for converting from Islam to Christianity has appc!iled for asylum in another country, the United Nations said Monday after hundreds of Muslims marched against a court's decision to dismiss his case. 
Afghan oiTicials did not say whether Abdul Rahman had been released after the case against him was dismissed Sunday, but the U.N. statement came amid unconfirmed reports that he was being freed. 
"We do understand that he will be released," State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said in Washington. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Panel clears immigration legislation 
WASHINGTON -The Senate Judiciary Committee approved election-year immigra­tion legislation Monday that clears the way for millions of undocumented wbrkers to seck U.S. citizenship without having to first leave the country. 
After days of street demonstrations that stretched from California to the grounds of the U.S. Capitol, the committee also voted to strip out proposed criminal penalties for ref?­idents found to be in this country illegally. 
The panel's vote cleared the way for the full Senate to begin debate Tuesday on the emotional immigration issue. 
"All Americans wanted fairness and they got it this evening," said Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who played a pivotal role in drafting the legisla­tion, approved 12-6. 

Disguised mother abducts children 
ROANOKE RAPIDS, N.C. -A mother charged with abducting her two children was accused of posing as a man while on the run, and authorities say the heavyset woman with cropped hair and a slight mustache even had the kids calling her "Daddy." 
Shellie White, 30, said it was all a misun­derstanding, claiming in a jail interview with The Associated Press that she never tried to hide her identity or change her appearance. 
White was arrested in Roanoke Rapids on Friday, more than two years after she allegedly took her children from Arizona when they were 3 and 5. Investigators said she and another woman were living together as the children's father and mother. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Survey finds sex education lacking 
INDIANAPOLIS -Many Indiana sex educa­tion classes are skipping important information on AIDS, pregnancy and other topics, according to a survey released Monday. 
Indiana University conducted the online sur­vey commissioned by the Get Real, Indiana! coalition, a group of organizations that support comprehensive sex education for all Indiana students. 
It includes information from about 400 high school and middle school teachers, counselors and other school personnel -including 175 teachers who said they were responsible for sex education. 
SWITZERLAND 


U.N. rights commission closes 
New Human Rights Council plans to set tougher standards for member countries 
Associated Press 
GENEVA -The discred­ited U.N. Human Rights Commission held its last meeting Monday before being replaced by a new body, ending a 60-year his­tory in which some of the world's worst offenders often used their member­ship to protect one another from condemnation. 
Peruvian Ambassador Manuel Rodriguez Cuadros, chairman of the 53-nation commission, gaveled the final session to an end in a packed meet­ing hall at U.N. offices in Geneva as young cam­paigners took photographs and lamented the loss of a rights forum they said was unfairly disparaged. 
The new 4 7 -member Human Rights Council will hold its first meeting June 19 in Geneva and the U.N. General Assembly will vote on new members May 9. 

The commission, which originally was inspired by the United States, came to be discredited in recent years because it admitted countries with terrible human rights records ­such as Sudan, Libya, Zimbabwe and Cuba ­who tried to shield each other from censure. China and Russia lobbied heavily human rights revolution," tries from becoming mem­One exception was Saudi to avoid having their per­Arbour said. "Much will bers. Arabia, speaking for the formances held up to rest on the profound cul­The United States was Asian group of countries, scrutiny. ture shift that must accom­one of only four countries which vowed to continue 
"The commission will not pany this institutional to vote against the council, the "campaign against for­be mourned by many who reform. The protection of but it has said it will coop­eign occupation and its value human rights," U.S. human rights will thrive in erate with' the new body. It implications in the occu­Ambassador Kevin Moley a rigorous, frank and coop-· has yet to decide on pied Palestinian territories, told The Associated Press. erative environment." whether it will seek elec­the Syrian Golan and south "The good news is the U.N. Secretary-General tion, Moley said. Lebanon." commission is over. The Kofi Annan said the com­Rights groups said the Israel's ambassador in bad news is that what mission had been discred­requirement that members Geneva told The replaces it isn't much bet­ited when he called last receive at least a majority Associated Press his coun­ter." year for it to be replaced 96 votes will keep out the try would support the new 
U.N. High Commissioner with a new, strengthened worst offenders. council, even though it had for Human Rights Louise body that would review Monday's session was voted with the U.S. against Arbour said member states every nation's right record. largely subdued by com­its creation two weeks ago. should now seize the The General Assembly mission standards, with Many advocacy groups, opportunity to improve the voted earlier this month to most speakers expressing however, were uncertain U.N.'s tarnished rights replace the commission their support for the coun­as they left a forum where record. with the new council, cil and praising certain ele­they commanded great 
"We are, truly, in the ignoring U.S. objections ments of the commission attention, sometimes for midst of a quiet -or even that not enough was done they believed needed to be issues largely ignored in maybe not so quiet -to prevent abusive coun-preserved. their home countries. 


Moussaoui reveals failed 9I11 plans 
ed to detonate a bomb in his shoe The exchange could be key to the
Associated Press 
aboard American Airlines Flight 63 government's case that the attacks 

ALEXANDRIA, Va.-AI-Qaida con­from Paris to Miami. The plane was might have been averted if Moussaoui spirator Zacarias Moussaoui testified diverted to Boston, where it landed had been more cooperative following Monday that he and would-be shoe safely. his arrest. bomber. Richard Reid were supposed Moussaoui told the court he knew Moussaoui told the court he knew to hijack a fifth airplane on Sept. 11, the World Trade Center attack was the attacks were to take place some 2001, and fly it into the White House. coming and he lied to investigators time after August 2001 and bought a 
Moussaoui's testimony on his own when arrested in August 2001 radio so he could hear them unfold. behalf stunned the courtroom. His because he wanted it to happen. Specifically, he said he knew the account was in stark contrast to his "You lied because you wanted to World Trade Center was going to be 
· previous statements in which he ·said conceal that you were a member of attacked, but he asserted he was not the White House attack was to come al-Qaida?" prosecutor Rob Spencer involved in that part of the plot and later if the United States refused to asked. didn't know the details. release an Egyptian sheik imprisoned "That's correct," Moussaoui said. Nineteen men pulled off the Sept. on separate terrorist convictions. Spencer: "You lied so the plan could 11 attacks on New York and On Dec. 22, 2001, Reid was sub­go forward?" Washington in the worst act of terror­dued by passengers when he attempt-Moussaoui: "That's correct." ism ever on U.S. soil. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 28, 2006 
MAV 
continued from page 1 
Centlw has put posters up around campus that show campus leaders committed to ending violence for Sexual A-;sault Awareness Week. 
Graduate student Alex Chap11aux. f(JUnding member and co-adviser of MAV, sat outside South Dining llall Sunday night to encourage men to sign the pledge against rape and other violence. The pledge campaign will contin­ue at both dining halls through Tuesday night. 
"Our main goal is to ... educate men and to redefine masculinity in a positive way," he said. 
The idea to organize a ta.<;k force featuring men talking to other men about sexual assault grew out of a conference at DePauw University attended by Heather 

Tuition 
continued from page 1 
Despite the logic behind the increase, online campus forums have been flooded with unsatis­fied student reactions spurring debates about the reasons for and necessity of the decision. 
"It can be understood, to a degree, why increases arc made," sophomore Mary Catenacci said. "But it is faulty policy, given the economie climate, for students to bear the brunt of increased administrative expenditures, some [of which! may bn question­able in validity." 
While students recognize the influence of economic changes on the cost of attending college, soph­omore Erin Scott said the reality of student loans and the incurred debt many students will face after ~:,rraduation has created a negative pen:eption of ri-;ing costs. 
"Scott doesn't understand why the tuition increase is so large each year. 
"I am faced with the very real prospect of quite a lot of debt," Seott said. "The current issue of rising tuition costs does absolutely nothing to ease my worries." 
Questions have also been raised about the effect the increase will have on enrollment and the diver­sity of studenl'> who will consider Saint Mary's as an option ­something the College has strug­gled with in recent years. 
Senior Stephanie Mason said Hakoczy, director of the Gender Relations Center, student body president Dave Baron, student body vice president Lizzi Shappell in April. 

Men are often uncomfortable talking about violence against women in the manner in which it is usually presented, Chapeaux said. 
"The issues have always been approached from a woman's approach -women telling men what's right and what's wrong," he said. 
Hakoczy said the use of male leadership could be instrumental in decreasing the incidence of rape and sexual assault. 
"Women have been doing this work . . . since the women's move­ment in the '70s ... but when it comes down to it, men are the ones who hold the special power in this culture," she said. "In order for the violence to actually end, it 
tuition increases are nothing for­eign to her, as they have occurred annually since her freshman year. She expressed concerned, howev­er, that the most recent change will be taking it too far. 
"Before we know it, the [num­ber) of students here will probably decrease because tuition plus room and board are going to hit the roof and be too expensive for most students to afford," Mason said. 
Stickelmaier said she did not believe the increase would have a negative impact on enrollment. 
"As a tuition-driven institution, the money will fund basic operat­ing costs at the school," Stickelmaier said. 
The Saint Mary's tuition increases also compare favorably to those at other colleges and uni­versities across the nation, she said. 
"Based on a recent analysis, the average tuition increase for selected private institutions last year was 6.2 to 6.4 percent. The tuition increase at Saint Mary's is also significantly below the rate of increase at many public colleges across the country, which can reach the double digits." 
Next year's increase will be higher than the four-percent rise in tuition and three-percent rise in room and board students paid this year, but the change will still be below increases made at other institutions, she said. 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaumgO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
requires men and women collabo­he said. is a ... Notre Dame male identity," rating together." Baron, who played an active he said. "There are very good Chapeaux said men need to take role in founding MAV, said he things about it but also very 
the initiative to prevent assault. hopes the· group can facilitate destructive things." 
"Some of what society has future discussion about what it accepted of them, has told them means to be a man at Notre what it means to be a man, isn't Dame. Contact Kaidynn Riely at truly what it means to be a man," "It is readily apparent that there kriely@nd.edu 

CC)N S LJ L~,f~ ING C~ RC)l_J f) 

Darners \X'antecl 
IBB Consuhing (;roup, tht• leading boutiljllC Strategy and 'l(~chnology f:onsuhing l·'inn focused rH1 Convergence issues in Cable, Broadband and \\'irckss industries is looking for L" ndergrad ScnicJrs and 2·\rcar \IB1\ candidates. Strong 
~ ' 
tcchnolog,· industrv interest is ~l rnusr. 
~~<.. '<! ,.. 
Nc) rninirnun1 (;PA n.:c.Juittd. 
Rdocation to Philadelphia preferred. 


Please send coYer letter and CV's to l\lichad \\hng (Class of 1996) at rnicbachv@ibbconsuhing.etHn 


Radical Encounters: Finding and Fonning Community Asummer course on religion and communitv 
~ ' 
wi1l1 aone-weeK rcsidcnc~·.at Mt. Saviour Monastcrv.. 





Coffee and Conversation

Elmira. N.Y. 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame

May J!-June g, 2006 
AI th~ [~\ld~ncy, ~ludy nhtnric Mlmuniti~S. \iS!! l!\ing ~~ommuni~i~s in i.l \';triety 
Tuesday, March 28 

tlf l~ith tradition~. limn am·~u. ~~urn~ni,al Cll!lllllunit} 11f~tud~nt~ ;mu laculty 
7:30-9:30 p.m.

lrom ~cll.'ral wllc~c~. (I 111 lt1thrw l'oll~t' ncdit~ Jll'~~ih!c. ~ 

316 Coleman-Morse 

lnr il full rw~j\'CIU~ llllil furth~~r infllf!llalinn. CllOttCI-(i·\IL \1A~OI:LL 
The Core Council for Gay and lesbian Students invites gay. lesbian. and bisexual members

Ill \IA\ISllr STI DILS. S:\1\l MARY'S COII.HII, ~~0 MADilLVA IIAI.! 
of the Notre Dame family. their friends. and suppo1ters to an informal coffee althe Co-Mo. 

i;W :s4-4465 OR 5:-1·277·-llliS ..-:~m.mJdhl.~inlmdu~.~Ju> . 
Evel)'one IS welcome and confldent1ahty IS assured 
Coffee and refreshments will be served-

CORE COUNCil 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 

STUDENTS 
-

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 







USINESS

Tuesday, March 28, 2006 page 7 
MARKET 
RECAP 
Dow 


11,250.11 ""29.86
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,415 166 1,842 2,042,266,620 
AMEX r;9 NASDAQ ~,.}J2~2§ +2.76 

NYSf 8.232.02···· ·: ':*211';$7l S&PSOO 1 ,301.61 -1.34 
NIKK£1(Tokyo) 16.soo.~~ •nmiS~l:i~!l~ih FTSE IOO(London) 5,972.20 -64.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +0.40 +0.02 4.99 
INTEL CP (INTC) +0.77 +0.15 19.75 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 0.00 27.0 I 
0.00 
NASDAQ I I 0 TR (QQQQ) +0.02 +0.01 41.31 
ENCYSIVE PHARMA (ENCY) -49.34 -4.48 4.60 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE +0.56 +0.26 47.0 I 
13-WEEK BILL -0.40 -0.18 45.17 
30-YEAR BOND +0.68 +0.32 47.27 
5-YEARNOTE +0.56 +0.26 46.88 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.10 64.16 
GOLD ($fTroy oz.) +6.90 567.40 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.). -0.45 87.68 
Excha Rates 
YEN 116.8400 
EURO 0.8329 
POUND 0.5727 
CANADIAN$ 1.1685 
IN BRIEF 

Biomet CEO resigns, stays consultant 
CHICAGO -Biomet Inc. said Monday that Dane Miller -co-founder, president and chief executive of the orthopedic products-maker ­has resigned and is retiring after nearly 30 years leading the company. 
The Warsaw, Ind.-based company said its board named General Counsel and Senior Vice President Daniel Hann as interim CEO and presi­dent. Biomet will consider internal and external candidates to fill the top executive post, and has­n't set a timeframe for making a decision. 
"It's difficult to predict how long that process will take," Hann said in an interview. 
Miller, 60, will remain a Biomet director and will serve as a consultant. He is one of Biomet's four founders and has been president, CEO and a director since the company's formation in 1977. Hann. 50, has been with Biomet since 1989 as an officer and director. 

Metals soar amid silver trade rumors 
NEW YORK -Silver rose to a .new 19-year high Monday, prompting a rise in other precious met­als as buyers poured in amid anticipation of final approval for a silver exchange-traded fund. 
The May silver contract on the New York Mercantile Exchange reached $10.94 an ounce Monday, then later settled at $10.895 an ounce, up 16 cents. 
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has approved the first part of the ETF proposal for trading on the American Stock Exchange. The market is awaiting final approval as the SEC goes through a registration transaction period. A for­mal launch date is not yet known. 
Silver's buying momentum did run into some profit-taking late in the session, but the white metal is widely expected to extend its rise. 
Analyst<; at MKS Finance said it expects silver to challenge major resistance at $11 an ounce, due to thH strong anticipation of the silver ETF listing. The rally in silver spilled over into the gold market where the most active April gold settled the day up $6.90 at $567.40 an ounce. Earlier, the con­tract reached a three-week high of $568.60 an ounce. 
Spot gold rose $7 to $567 an ounce. 
The most active April platinum contract settled $16.90 higher at $1,068.50 an ounce. Earlier, the contract rose to a 5 1/2-week high of$1,072. 



Techs build rural data centers 
Microsoft and Yahoo to move into farmlands for increased online storage space 
Associated Press 
QUINCY, Wash. -In the 
heart of potato country, a 
high-tech boom is taking 
place. 
Technology giants 
Microsoft Corp. and Yahoo 
Inc. are planning to build 
massive data storage cen­
ters amid the sagebrush 
and farm fields of rural 
central Washington. 
The draw appears to be 
the region's relatively 
cheap land, inexpensive 
hydropower and wide­
open space, and although 
neither agreement has 
been finalized, local offi­
cials are hopeful that 
Grant County will become 
more than the nation's 
leading supplier of spuds. 
"This could be a real 
boon to Quincy and to 
Grant County," said Curt 
Morris, Port of Quincy 
board president. "It's 
bringing renewed opti­
mism to the people of the 
town, especially the busi­
ness owners. We're inter­
ested to see where it takes 
us." 
The developments come 
as Microsoft, Yahoo, apples, potatoes, onions from Redmond. computers to store data. 
Google Inc. and Time and hay to points both And, as tech companies The plans include an elec­
Warner Inc.'s America east and we~t. and food take work as far afield as trical substation and a 
Online, as part of efforts to processors and packing India and China, the com­diesel-powered generator 
compete for customer loy­sheds comprise most of pany clearly sees an for backup power 
alty, are boosting e-mail, the city's industrial base. advantage to boasting of "because they can't afford 
video and other services The city sits hundreds of local expansion. to let it go down for a 
that require lots of storage miles from Microsoft's lush "Washington state is our minute," said Tim Snead, 
space. Redmond headquarters home. It's where the bulk city administrator. 
"Data centers like this near Seattle, yet the of our employees reside "My understanding is 
are what contains the Fortune 500 company has and work, and here's their objective is to. 
family jewels," analyst signed a tentative agree­another example of increase their capacity for 
Rob Enderle said. "They're ment to buy 7 4 acres in Microsoft in our state. the Internet, search 
looking for low-cost real one of Quincy's five rapidly We're very excited about engines," Snead said. "All 
estate and stable sites in filling industrial parks. that, and the folks in I know is there's a lot of 
terms of weather and geo­The price: $1 million. Quincy are very excited, computers." 
graphic activity. It mearis "The Quincy area is too," he said. Still unknown is whether 
they've done some work attractive to Microsoft for Microsoft hasn't released those computers will hold 
and determined it's one of a number of reasons: many details about the consumer information, 
the least-expensive, safest space available, the land, deal, which could be com­miles of code or backups 
places they can build." the access to power, and pleted any day. for data stored on servers 
Quincy, population the close proximity to our Documents filed with the elsewhere. Gellos declined 
5,300, has long been an headquarters here, which city show plans for up to to provide further details, 
agricultural hub in is always good for us," six buildings, totaling saying company officials 
Washington. Trains carry Microsoft spokesman Lou nearly 1. 5 million square were still finishing plans 
railcars loaded with Gellos said by telephone feet, to house racks of for the site. 

Zurich American settles fraud suit 
Associated Press will also adopt reforms. Among them bid rigging and price fixing as well as 
will be an end to "contingent commis­hidden commissions. 

ALBANY, N.Y.-Thousands of com­sions" in excess casualty insurance, Zurich was one of the companies panies and governments nationwide the line of business that Spitzer said Spitzer and state Insurance that bought insurance through a bro­involved bid-rigging. Zurich will also Superintendent Howard Mills accused ker expecting the lowest rates will stop paying contingent commissions of participating in an insurance bid­share in the proceeds from a $153 on other products if 65 percent of the rigging scheme that used phony bids million settlement of a bid-rigging industry drops the fees that Spitzer to fool customers into choosing a pre­scheme involving Zurich American said can cause conflicts of interest determined company within the Insurance Co. that hurt consumers. scheme. The scheme eventually pro­
The victims, which include small, Zurich will also disclose more about vided all participants with steered mom-and-pop retailers, school dis­its transactions. contracts and prices not determined tricts, governments and large corpo­"With our significantly enhanced by a free market. rations, will receive $88 million, said compliance structure, and our com­"Zurich's willingness to acknowl­New York Attorney General Eliot panywide commitment to ethical edge problems, adopt reforms and Spitzer, who led the investigation and behavior and outstanding service, we provide appropriate compensation to announced the settlement Monday. have in place standards that promote customers will help the company 
Zurich American, a subsidiary of the best interests of our customers, move forward to help promote full Switzerland's Zurich Financial agents, brokers and Zurich," said and fair competition in the insurance Services, also agreed to pay penalties Zurich Financial CEO James Schiro. industry," Spitzer said. and costs of the investigation to the The settlement is part of Spitzer's Spitzer said Zurich was among a three states in the settlement: $39 investigation of Marsh & McLennan few companies that would submit million to New York, and $13 million Companies Inc., the nation's largest bogus high bids to help steer some each to Connecticut and Illinois. property and casualty brokerage. contract to one company and could 
Zurich, which admitted no wrong­Marsh settled with Spitzer last year expect to have the same done for doing in agreeing to the settlement. for $850 million over allegations of them. 
~-­

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 
Tuesday, March 28, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Power of love 
1~0. Box 779, Notre llame, IN 46556 .024 South Dining Hall, Nurre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Gilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddit• Hanna Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EmTOR: Rama (;ottumukkala A.~s·1~ MANAGING EI>ITOR.: Robert Griffin 
NEW-; EDITORS: Amanda Michaels Mary Kare Malone VmWJ>OINT EDITOR: joey King SPORTS EDill>R: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR.: Kelly Meehan PIIOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR.: Graham Ebctsch 
AI>VI,R'IlSING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER.: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRAmR: Damian Altholl' SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574)"631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spom.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERYERONL/N£ www. ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Obsern:r reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. I .etters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q~mtions rrgarding Observrr polirirs should be dimtrd w F.diwr in ChiefMikr Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th~: tlb.crY~:r (USPS 5?92-4000) is puhl~u:J MonJ.~y thmugh Frufay except durin~ ~~~~ 11111i VliiG.Iti~m pcmnda. A aubtuiption to The Obic:rvcr is $100 f,,, one:-<h.-adcmtc year; $"i"i liu nnc-liC'nlntet. 
lbe Obic:rvcr is publi1hed u: POSTMASTER 024 South Dinins t I.all Send addrw corrections w; 
Nunc Oamc.IN 46"i~.om 'lbcObserver 
l'criudiul ~><.>st~Kf p.aid .u Not~ Dame P.O. Box779 
.tnd .ufditional mailing offi..:a 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0n9 
TI1e Otmrvc:r il.a nwmber oft~ AAcKiarcd Pt~. All reproduaim1 righu m reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Karen Langley Kate Gales 

Peter Ninneman Eric Retter Pat Moore Joe Quinn Viewpoint Scene 
Alyssa Mark Brauweiler Bemenderfer Graphics Graham Ebetsch 
Jimi llendrix's stunning and unorthodox version of 'The Star Spangled Banner' is rife with truth and beauty concerning the nature of existence. It is particularly poignant for the times in which we live, and indeed offers much knowledge . about statecraft and power for any age. llendrix's version, although made l~tmous by his Aug. 18, 1969 Woodstock performance, was a concert staple as far back as the fall of 1968 and was played into the summer of 1970. The song was symbolic of the entim spirit of the age and generation. 
Jimi's 'Star Spangled Banner' is a mael­strom of sonic power that instantly grips the listener with shrilly-sustained notes, wailing feedback, and loud distortion. The tflrrible sounds of war are reproduced by llendrix's guitar, and his genius. One can hear .Jimi's Stratocaster belting out the simulated sounds of guns and bombs whistling through the air-indeed a skill llendrix would later perfect in the song 'Machine Gun.' As I once heard 'The Star Spangled Banner' described, it seems to be a hulking behemoth that appears to be collapsing under its own burden. 
The state of American society was reflected in Hendrix's song. The nation was torn apart by civil unrest and the Vietnam War. America, like the great 
. dying beast that is Jimi's rendition, seemed to be falling apart at the seams due to her own exertions. This was a quite apt critique of the times and indeed, had change not occurred, America very well might have fallen into chaos. What makes Jimi's song a more apt criticism is that he did not intend for it to be a politi­cal statement. During his appearance on the Dick Cavett Show, Jimi responded to 

Ian Ronderos 
Liberated 

being pressed about the nature of his 
song by stating, "I thought it was beauti­
ful." The song was a manifestation and 
interpretation of the spirit flowing 
through the air. It was spontaneous and 
real; as such, it contains an honest inter­
pretation of this spirit, whether Jimi 
intended it or not. 
America changed so that the spirit embodied in the apocalyptic version was not borne out, and society stabilized. It would do Americans well to listen careful­ly to Jimi's version now, as America is heading down a similar path of discord and unrest. The state of afl'airs has not yet plunged Americans into the same level of discontent that was present in the latn­1960s, but things are clearly progressing towards that end. American foreign policy has become increasingly aggressive and arrogant. The mligious right is making an attack upon the secular nature of our gov­ernment, which our Deist founders deter­mined to be an essential part of the republic. Civil liberties are being eroded in the name of national security. Ire is growing for many. Many others buy into our government's policy, which makes a culture dash more than imminent. 
The essential problem that confronts us is power. America is the strongest nation in the world, and this has begun to play with our leaders. We understand that we can vent our strength more efl'ectively than any of the other powers in order to achieve what we will. Sometimes this is effected for the betterment of mankind, and other times it is effected for our advantage. This arbitrariness has created resentment domestic and abroad. The government ha..<; decided to rule in such a manner as to increase the prosperity of America as an institution, and the nation is conceived of as an abstract concept, rather than a collection of unique individ­uals. It is their conception of this abstract idea and the desire for its promulgation that has led to politicians' current fetish for foreign adventurism. 
Power is the same problem for Jimi's 'Star Spangled Banner.' !lis guitar screams and wails to point of breaking. The sheer sonic explosion can no longer contain itself and the song becomes liter­ally too strong to sustain its sharply vio­lent trajectory. The song descends into sonic dissonance and chaos. A'i stated above this is the same problem that con­temporary America is facing. The more the nation forcibly imposes itself upon the individual and upon the world at large, the more backlash it creates. America puts pressure upon the common bonds that link all people and nations together; this is a tension that cannot last. 
The solution can be found in the life and music of Jimi Hendrix. lie was a man who based his life upon love. This quotation of his best explains his outlook on life: "When the power of love overcomes the love of power the world will know peace." That is the answer; individuals need to make a personal change so that they look upon the world as what it is and affirm the beauty and love found within it. This leads tel'an appreciation lilr the common bond all people share. Everything and everyone is beautiful, because they are all contained within the same existence. Jimi Hendrix understood tlw power of all­encompassing love. When more people can feel this, they will make political change, just a..<> the 1960s generation did. Jimi's life was tragically short and maybe the· world cannot endure men like him, but I sure hope it can. 
fan Ronderos is a senior majoring in the classics with a supplementary major in Ancient Greek and Roman Civilizations. Having retired from the College Republicans and adopted independent politics, he has entered the private life of peacefnl contemplation. fan can be con­tacted at irondero@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 


Submit aLetter
How do you feel about people other than college students viewing your Facebook profile? 


to tbe Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com •··
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Every gun that is made ... signifies ... a theft ]rom those who hunger and are not fed, those who are cold and are not clothed. This world in arms is ... spending the sweat ofits laborers, the genius ofits scientists, the hopes ofits children." 
Dwight D. Eisenhower former U.S. president 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Tuesday, March 28, 2006 page 9. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
U.S. Army doesn't honor ROTC contract 
I wanted to follow up on Gary Caruso's March 24 article, "Examining the decline of President Bush." 
I am the Notre Dame '96 alum who was refer­enced in the article as having filed a lawsuit in fed­eral court against the U.S. Army because they would not honor my contract. I signed a ROTC con­tract at Notre Dame in August of 1992 while I was 18 years old. In return for a partial scholarship, I was to serve eight years in the Army or Army Heserve. 
I enjoyed the time I spent in the Army Reserve, but quickly realized that it wasn't going to be a career for me. After my eight year service obliga­tion was completed, I resigned my commission. My resignation request was denied. I have resigned five times in the last two years and am approaching 10 years of service on an eight-year contract. I am now 32 years old and the contract that I signed as an 18-year~old at Notre Dame still affects my daily life. I have been told by Army reserve personnel that I can be retained until I am 50! 
A month after I filed a federal lawsuit, I was transferred to a reserve unit in North Carolina (I am from Massachusetts) for the sole purpose of involuntary mobilization to Iraq. I am to be mobi­lized on April 28 if my motion for a preliminary. injunction fails in federal court. 
I am confident that I will prevail in my federal suit, as four other officers who previously filed law­suits were successful. After the cases were filed and motions were made, the officers were granted their Honorable Discharges before going to trial. Unfortunately, these cases cannot be having a posi­tive effect on recruiting. I don't know of many 18­year-olds who want to make what they think is an eight-year decision but is slanted so that it directs the rest of their lives. I just hope that my suit results in a fifth Honorable Discharge. 
On Sept. 6, 2004, after my second res­ignation was denied. I contacted both Father Edward Malloy and Father John Jenkins asking them for help in dealing with the Army, as the eight-year ROTC contracts being signed on Notre Dame's campus didn't appear to be really eight-year contracts according to the Army or the Department of Defense. Since Notre Dame provides the Department of Defense with hundreds of new officers annually (and since the Secretary of the Army is also an ND alum), I thought that Notre • Dame would try to protect its stu­dents and alums against these deceitful practices that I described to the then­President and President-elect. 

I received no response from then-President Malloy. I called his office and faxed a copy of my letter to him since he wasn't receiving e-mails. I did receive a response from Jenkins, who explained as President-elect, he didn't feel he had the authority to intervene in this situation and this was a con­tract that I entered into with the Army. At the time, I thought Jenkins' explanation was fair as he hadn't been elevated to President. However, my opinion changed on Nov. 30, 2004 when I found out that Jenkins, not yet the university president, was a cat­alyst in the firing of Tyrone Willingham, another 
contract controversy. I felt that his lack of authority explanation was insincere. At the very least, Malloy or Jenkins could have asked someone from the Notre Dame legal team or law school to review the contracts being signed 
on campus to ascertain whether I was correct or to point out that 
in accordance with Page X, paragraph Z of the contract, the Army could actually keep me until I was 50. If I was cor­rect, the University could have initiated a dialogue with the Department of Defense 
demanding that the terms on ROTC contracts be honored. Otherwise, the University could threaten to reconsider its relation­ship with all of its ROTC programs. As Jenkins promotes "Catholic char­
acter," should he also not look out for the 18-year-old students who might not realize that their signatures could bind them until they are 50? It seems immoral and downright wrong for the University to turn a blind eye to its students and alums as the Department of Defense turns an eight­year contract into a 28-year contract. To me, deceitful language by the military seems a lot more harmful to the students at Notre Dame than watch­ing the Vagina Monologues. 
Jonathan E. O'Reilly class of 1996 March 27 

It's time to get your Irish up 

Alas, it had to happen. The one Irishman without a sense of humor crawled out of his personal bog of self­regard and registered his disapproval of an athletic mascot. How noble, how original. 
Well, let me establish my bona fides too: I am Irish-American, a citizen of this great country and Ireland, by virtue of my parents' birth. Growing up in Brooklyn as a child of the urban working class, I can state to the super­cilious Richards that the moniker "Fighting Irish" represents more than a slur. It represents a measure of pride in what William Butler Yeats called the "indomitable Irishry." 
It also represents the survival of a. people who were relegated to the dust­bin of history by their colonial masters. And finally, it represents an ironical appreciation of the role history forced upon us. 
When G.K. Chesterton wrote his mas­terful aesthetic biography of George Bernard Shaw he attributed certain characteristics to Mr. Shaw that proved his status as an Irishman. Indeed, Shaw was a friend of Chesterton and reveled in the portrait. One of these characteristics was a ferocity of inten­tion and a clarity of result. As the great Gilbert Keith wrote: 
"This is probably why the Irishman succeeds in such professions as require a certain crystalline realism, especially about results. Such profes­sions are the soldier and the lawyer; these give ample opportunity for crimes, but not much for mere illu­sions. If you have composed a bad opera you may persuade yourself that it is a good one; if you have carved a bad statue you can think yourself bet­ter than Michelangelo. But if you have lost a battle you cannot believe you have won it; if your client is hanged you cannot pretend that you got him off." 
So, Richards, earn your kudos else­where. You do not understand what it means to be Irish. I rest confident in the knowledge that if this letter upsets you, then I have proven my point. 
Michael Ryan class of 1975 March 24 

'Irish' is an ethnicity, not a race 
I find that recent letters decrying the athletic moniker "Fighting Irish" contain factual inaccuracies and suggest that people may have misplaced priorities. 
First, I was not aware that the citizens of Ireland (and their descendants) were a distinctive race of humans. Yes, "Fighting Irish" may be perceived as an ethnic slur, but it is not racist. Second, what would these protesters prefer for an athletic nickname? How about the "Athletically Gifted Irish"? Perhaps in years wheil the teams were not performing well, we could call them the "Athletically Challenged Irish." 
If it's any reference to Irish that gets them ired (hmmm... I wonder if there's any connection between ire and Ireland; probably not, but it does make one wonder), then all that's necessary is to change Irish to something else. How about the "Fighting Student Athletes from the University of Notre Dame"? There's a catchy name. 
In case my point isn't getting through, consider other athletic nicknames: Fighting Saints, Fighting Quakers and Fighting Bishops. I don't think any­one seriously considers these ethnic or religious slurs. In fact, there's some­thing catchy, almost poetic, about the oxymorons. Or do you really believe that "Great Danes" (University of Albany) is an ethnic slur that I should consider offensive to my paternal heritage? After all, Great Dane implies dog, and we all know what dog connotes when applied to a human. Speaking for my maternal side (German-Irish), I am not the least offended by "Fighting Irish." Perhaps that's because I recognize "Fighting Irish" for what it is -an athletic nickname that says nothing about people of Irish origin. 
Dr. Richard Jensen Professor ofbiology Saint Mary's March 27 



What's in a name? 
A note from an outside observer to the President of Notre Dame in regard to recent remarks made about freedom of speech: 
The sponsors of the football program at Notre Dame have "many laudable goals;" howev­er, Ifail to see how the annual performance, at a multi-million dollar cost to the University, is an "appropriate means to these ends." I fail to see how it in any way conforms to the development of a "scholarly temperament" or nurture a "very distinct intellectual charac­ter." I am not entirely sure what "sacred values" it upholds in comparison to other value­promoting exercises on a college campus, such as enthusiastic student productions of con­temporary plays or alternative film festivals. Indeed, it could be argued in many ways that the football program at Notre Dame is clearly "at odds with" or "egregiously contrary to or inconsistent with certain fundamental values of a Catholic University." Thus I would "invite you to consider" that "wide publicity and prominence given such events," through mone­tarily enriching television network contracts, is hardly a way to "instrumentalize" the "col­lective identity" and "higher meaning" of a Catholic University. I am most concerned about the meaninglessness of the "community and culture" centered on entertainment and other false values it "strives to create." Therefore, I invite you to consider the witness of one Telemachus, a fourth-century monk who met his death at the hands of an angry crowd because he dared to challenge the legitimacy and sacred value of the gladiatorial games of his era and to abandon the current obsession with what may be faddish artistic experimen­tations which nonetheless leave much of value in their wake. Perhaps in truth the problem simply lies in the label. The emotion-eliciting appellations given to either "The Vagina Monologues" or a "Queer Film Festival" may just as well get in the way of the artistic integrity of the productions as would calling the football program at Notre Dame "Grunting Men Bashing Each Other About for the Blessed Mother." 
Keith Wimmersberger 
Tully, NY 
March 21 

r-----------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------·---------~~~--­

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 

Are you a music snob? 
Arn you a music snob'? Musk snobs are 
l.lw kind of playnr-hating kids who 
sauntnr daily around our r.ampus, noSf\S 
hnld high, as thny are suprnmoly smug in 
thnir knowledge that the iTunes blasting 
through tlwir hPad­
phones are "good 
musk." 
What, pray tnll, makes some music good and some had? Is it that "rap is <Tap," as it is sonwtinws suggnst­nd'? Dons good musk have to havn a guitar? Is classi­cal musk to bn rnservnd li1r wakns, funerals and rnas­tnrpinen theater? Or is it possible that dit'­limmt musk <:an be suitable for dill'enmt oe<:asions. and that we ean all join tognthnr using a universal splitter and sing Cumbaya? 
Granted, Shania Twain has a better dmncn ofjoining G-Unit than evcryonn agrnning on a eommon taste in tunes. But can't we all live and Jet livn, or at lnast livn and Int. din? I ley, it worked with the Spiee (iirls, right'? 
Lnt's start with the most mmmon of all musical biasns-rap is crap. llow appropriatnly whitP, middln-to-upper dass Amnric:an suburbia. llonnstly, have you nvnr tried getting your freak on to Davn Matthnws Band'? Sorry, but that's onn surn way to guarantee there'll bn "Space Botwnnn" dancers on the dance lloor (and also, li1r Notrn Dame students, room li1r th<\ Iloly Spirit.) 
It has also bnen argued that today's rap is all about gangsters, profanity, illicit sexual terminology and guns. Well, this is Anwri<:a. If you don't like sex and linmrms. gnt thn hell out. In all serious­ness, thorn are rap ereative artists sueh as Outkast and The Hoot'i that appnal to tho Jess-criminally inclined music afi­cionado. 
On tho othnr side of the eampus music spnetrum arn the son rockers -people who think the only typo of guitar is aeoustie, who generally shun barbers and thnir scissors in lieu of growing their hair out and tend to Iiston to stull' like "Dashboard Confessional." You can prob­ably lind somn of these sweet dudes parked on bonches out on the quad, ser­enading females and strumming generic chords while erooning their latest batch 0 f bad po<\try. 
Sort rockPrs also likP. slow ballads about being hopelessly in love and the unfathomable pain and unpreendnntnd lwartbrnak of such phenomena as dating breakups and unrPturnnd love. However, these sort, emotional types arn mostly harmless and contnnt to spnnd their time quintly strumming their guitars bnhind 


Tae Andrews 
Scene Writer 
their desks. 
By contrast, the angriest musie fans 
arc the rebel rockers. Shunting the cor­
porate propaganda machine that is 
radio, they go ofT on underground jaunts 
decked out in trucker caps to lind bands 
who haven't "sold out" yet. Then they 
sneer at the rest of the world for falling 
victim to grandiose conspiracy theories 
involving airwave monopolies and sub­
liminal brainwashing. 
Many of the rnbel rockers have concert I.-shirts that proudly authenticate the fact that they were there and provide proof they were in fact fans before their bands got big. Even bands that were fresh and original of'ten lose their luster over time -a common phrase you might hear from a rebel rocknr would be, "their old stun· was better," in referenee to a band's haleyon early days bel{Jrn they werP. tainted by suceilss. 
Unfortunately, herein lies the conun­drum: if the massPs were to convert to this path of pure, unadulterated fresh musie-these novel bands would lose their novelty and become the very objeel'i of their hatred. They too would be "sell­outs" who have fallen victim to main­stream music making. 
If everyone liked underground music, it wouldn't be underground any more. So instead of sneering at the rest of society, perhaps these rebel rockers should thank the mainstrcamers for not ruining their insurrection. 
However, despite the many differences in musical taste, there is still some com­mon ground to be found. For better or worse, it may very well be that drugs provide the missing link between music fans of all genres. For example, whether the guy hitting the hookah in front of you at the concert is chillin' to DMB or illin' to 50 Cent, the second-hand marijuana smoke you're inhaling is the just the same. 
Is it true that only the oldies are but goody? Is musie like a line wine, which has to age to a certain point before it can be savored? Perhaps all music fans can lind some common ground in their joint liking for old-school hits, whether the classics you savor are Ace of Base, Sir Mix-a-Lot or Elton John. Hegardless of the genre, everyone loves strolling down old memory lane with their headphones on. 
Maybe musie snobbery is just a perma­nent phenomenon. On seeond thought, serap that Cumbaya thought. Maybe it's just bBtter that wo all walk around as plugged-in podheads. After all, that's why it's called an iPod, not an ourPod. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tan drew 1 @nd. edu 


Photo courtesy of rogerwaters.org Music fans participate In a "live 8" concert. live performances are points of g{Jtherlng for music fans and snobs alike. 
Tuesday, March 28, 2006 

PERFORMANCE REVIEW 


Local jazz band lig: 
By MARK BEMENDERFER Assistant Scene Editor 
The Don Savoie band. While the name may not ring a bell with the average Notre Dame student, its musical talent and prowess is undeniable. 
Made up of members of the Notre Dame community, the band plays a variety of contemporary songs, ranging from the famous to the obscure. Its sound is a mix­ture of blues, bass and rock and roll-cre­ating an enjoyable experience for listeners. 
The group's latest performance was Saturday night at the Bookmaker's Pub. Playing to a packed audience consisting primarily of Notre Dame students, Frontman Don Savoie and his band easily kept the crowd entertained with a vast library of songs and abilities. They played songs by famous musicians, such as Tom Petty, but they put their own spin on the music, often taking time to simply jam. 
Savoie, an adjunct Notre Dame music professor for the past six years, is a veter­an musician and blues player. lie led the band through the night's selections using a variety of instruments, including the guitar, harmonica and keyboard. He also provided the primary vocals, spoke to the audience directly between songs and boosted audi­ence involvement with the performance. 
His experienee consists of 35 years of musical work in various parts of the world. Attending the University of Michigan, he learned blues and jazz in Detroit. lie then went on to play musie abroad in EuropP, and has played with such performers as Stevie Hay Vaughn. 
Backing Savoie were several proficient musical members from Notre Dame. 
Consisting of members from the student group "Appetite for Destruction," Matt Marnoeha, Uel Pitts and Brendon Collins demonstrated great stage presencP and complimented eaeh other well. Their diverse experience, ranging from Battle of the Bands to the recent production of "Footloose," was evident as they per­formed with Savoie. 
Matt Marnocha played the guitar to great effect, and show<~d his ability throughout the night in a varinty of complex songs. Playing the bass commendably was Uel Pitts, who provided back-up voeals in sev­eral songs to Savoie. Providing the rhythm for the band was Brnndon Collins on the drums, who entertained tho audience with an extended solo midway through the night. 
Each of the members of the band had a moment t.o shine as tlw night progressed, as thP music tlwy played kept space for improvisation and suloing. Tho band obvi­ously enjoyed performing together, and the enthusiasm provPd inf<~<:tious, sproading to the crowd and boosting the overall per­formance. 
The evening broke down into several segments. During the rests, Savoie and the rest of the band would mingle with the crowd, ehatting and having a good time. They were personable and friendly, creat­ing a casual environment with listeners. 
Audience partieipation was obviously high, to the point that one of Savoie's stu­dents, junior Tom HulTman, contributed his abilities with the guitar midway through the performance on a couple of songs. Savoie said such participation is common fare for the hand, as students of'ten play contributing roles in tho band. 
Overall, the performanee was a sueeess 

VIDEO GAME REVIEW 

'Powered Up' Cape 
By MARK BEMENDERFER Assistant Scene Editor 
Gaming platforms live and die by third party support. If a company ean't get games from developers, then the console is des­tined to struggle. Nintendo's Gamecube is a prime example of this, as its third-place ranking in the current console raee can be attributed to the lack of quality non­Nintcndo games. 
Sony is the current leader for a good rea­son. Being able to muster strong third party support from the likes of Capcom and Namco, the Playstation 2 has proven itself as a strong leader. Their PSP is still trying to secure the same success of its bigger broth­er however, and Sony has contracted Capcom to bring several quality titles to the tiny handheld to expedite the process. 
One of the latest ofl'erings on the PSP is "Mega Man Powered Up." The second "Mega Man" title that Capcom has ported, this is a remake of the original Nintendo classic. Like "Mega Man Maverick lluntP.r X," this new release features updated three­dimensional graphics, an improved storyline and added sounds. 
For those unfamiliar with Mega Man's leg­endary beginning -it starts with a bang. A mad scientist (Dr. Wily) decides to take over the world. To do so, he kidnaps eight robots created by the good Dr. Light. lie then reprograms these good robots, transforming them into tools f{Jr global domination. 
llis laboratory in shambles, Dr. Light is short on options for stopping the mad Dr. Wily. However, his assistant robot, Mega, offers to retake the wayward robots and stop Wily's plans of world domination. Dr. Light agrees and upgrades Mega, dubbing him Mega Man. 
Thus the game begins. The player con­trols the newly formed Mega Man on his quest to defeat the robot masters and save the world. As Mega Man defeats each of the robot masters, he assimilates a new special attack from his fallen foe, which can be used to defeat a different bad robot. Essentially an exaggeratnd version of paper­roek-seissor, each of the robot masters has a particular attack they are weak against. As an obvious example is how fire beats oil. 
However, this game is ealled "Powered Up," and it does earn that title. The first noticeable upgrade from the original is the graphics. Done in a three-dimensional, vaguely cartoon style; the vibrant eolors and shapes help compliment the game. 
Also powernd up is the story itsnlf. There 
is a new playable intro to the 


game, and seripted spoken dia­logue has bmm added as well. Mega Man will have a short conversation with each of the robot mastnrs before they bat­tle. 
But the primary area that has been upgraded has befm the gameplay value. Featuring a wealth of unlockables, the option for downloadable con­tent and a level builder, 



.-------------------­
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Tuesday, March 28, 2006 
page 11 
ts up Notre Dame 
Matt Marnocha, Uel Pitts, Don Savoie and Brendon Collins performed together at Bookmaker's Pub Saturday evening to a full audience. 
and enjoyable for everyone in attendance. would do well to watch for Don Savoie, and The music selection was exemplary, as well the veterans of "Appetite for Destruction." as the musicians who performed it. A more enjoyable experience would be 
Future performances include opening for hard to find. Pat Green in the Stepan Center April 7, and an April 22 reappearance at Bookmakers. Contact Mark Bemenderfer at Fans of jazz, blues and music in general mbemende@nd.edu 

m classic hits PSP 
Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 

Mega Man faces off against one of the minions of the robot masters. This PSP remake of the Nintendo classic offers near-limitless replay value. 
"Powered Up" has near limitless replay This adds a great deal of depth to the game, value. ensuring a lengthy .shelf life in most garners 
One of the better unloekables is the robot libraries. masters th11mselves. If the pl{tyer plays "Mega Man Powered Up" is everything it through tlw updated version of the game, claims to be. For Mega Man fans, it proves they can play as the masters after they to be an excellent remake of the original dP.feat them. Each of the masters has their classic. New people should also check it out, own storyline, and unique gameplay that as a remake of the original is a great start-. adds to the replay value of the game. ing point for any gamer. 
There are also hidden unlockable and downloadable characters, boosting the cur­Contact Mark Bemenderfer at rent character total into the double digits. mbemende@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Miserable 'Date' fails to deliver 

for original jokes or witty dialogue. The By CASSIE BELEK most painful gag comes when Julia and 
Scene Critic 

Grant go to couples' therapy (Mr. and 
"Date Movie" miserably and awk­Mrs. Smith) slowing down any momen­wardly crawls its way through 83 min­tum the movie had. utes to become the worst and least Equally painful to watch was the "My funny movie of the year. Best Friends Wedding"-like song at din­
Co-writer Aaron Seltzer makes his ner. Instead of singing a classic, the directorial debut, and with any luck, he .characters sang an original song -or won't get behind the camera again. The unoriginal considering the lack of tagline for the movie exclaims, "From humor -and had the sound quality of Two of the Six Writers of 'Scary a high school film project. Movie!'" Clearly the other four writers Everything in the movie reeked of are desperately needed to craft a funny poor quality, from the script to the cut­script. And the absence of the Wayans ting to the sound editing. A film produc­brothers (Damon and Marlon) makes tion student could have better crafted "Scary Movie" appear like a Picasso this movie. The movie also underplayed painting and "Date Movie" look like the the resources it had, especially Fred scribbling of a three-year-old. Willard and Jennifer Coolidge who por­
The plot combines elements from var­trayed Grant's parents -Bernie and ious romantic comedies -so many Roz. Both were very funny and could romantic have been comedies in 
better uti­fact, that the 
lized over the

Date Movie
audience 

course of the misses many 

film. of the refer­
Hannigan's ences. Julia 
performance Jones (Alyson 
was nothing Hannigan) is 
special and an obese 
Director: Aaron Seltzer 
the actress waitress at 
Writers: Aaron Seltzer, Jason Friedberg 
Starring: Alyson Hannigan, Adam Campbell, 
should not her family's 
Jennifer Coolidge, Tony Cox 
have taken Greek restau­
this role. She rant. It's love 
proved her at first sight comedic tal­when she spots Grant Funkyerdoder ent in the "American Pie" movies and (Adam Campbell), a suave Hugh Grant­currently in CBS's "How I Met Your like character who sees the true beauty Mother." She should be beyond appear­in her. But Julia thinks the only way she ing in grossly sub-par movies whose can win the man is with a complete star cameo is Carmen Electra in a leop­beauty makeover (Miss Congeniality) ard print bikini. and hook-ups (Hitch). At the end of the Bottom line? This movie should have day, Julia is 200 pounds lighter and never been made. It is not "Scary ready to win Grant's heart on a reality Movie." It's not even "Dude, Where's My game show. Car?" For a parody to succeed it must 
The two fall in love, decide to get be funny and it must not undermine its married, meet the parents, meet the audience's intelligence. Viewers don't best friend who is still in love with go in to "Date Movie" expecting cine­Grant and break ofT their engagement, matic excellence, but they also don't go among a series of other predictable in expecting the 12-year-olds in the occurrences. The ending is no surprise front row will be the only ones laughing given the movie's title. But just because by the end. And chances are, those 12­we know what will happen doesn't year-olds haven't even seen half the excuse the movie from offering us at movies referenced. least one surprise -at least one gag The concept of this movie had that makes us laugh at loud. tremendous potential, but two untalent­
Instead, the funny moments can be ed writers -one of whom is an even counted on one hand. less talented director -killed any 
Gags are taken too far and it depends chance the project had. so much on recycled lines from its spoofed movies that it leaves little room Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 28, 2006 
NBA 


Heat eke out victory as Hasle111 ejected for altercation 
Nets hold Suns to their lowest point total of the season 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Tnmp1~rs flared dur­ing the ganw and morn fighting words came afterward. At least the Miami Heat were able to leaw happily. 
Shaquille O'Neal had 23 points and II rnbounds, Dwyane Wade endurmf a tough night to score 22, and the Ileal rallied from a 14-point sneond-half dnlieit to beat the Indiana Pacers 96-91 on Monday night. 
Tlw Ileal beat the l'aenrs for the second time in 
Indiana led 58-44 early in the third quarter, before Shaquille O'Neal and Williams led Miami's rally. Each scored 11 points in the pnriod. and when the Heat center hit a turnaround with 33 seconds left, Miami had clawed back into a tie at 71. 
"In the first half, Tinsley and Anthony Johnson were sagging ofT of me, especially when Dwyane had the ball," Williams said. "So I just wanted to come out and b1~ aggressive." 
With 7 minutes left, the Heat took their first lead since the second quartnr on a spectacular play by Wade. After Jermaine O'Neal blocked Wayne Simien's shot, Wade scooped up the loose ball, drove on O'Neal, scored 
and got fouled; the 

1(, regular-season three-point play
"Only three people 

meetings, doing so put Miami up 80­aller w~tting hit with thought the foul 79. and the lleat five technical fouls wouldn't trail
was on me. 

and llaslem's sec­again. ond-quarter ejnetion "lie made a cou­for scuiTiing with Udonis Haslem ple of groat plays lndiamt's .lnrmaine Heat forward at the end," O'Nmtl. Indiana coach Rick 
"Sort of an ugly Carlisle said. game," Shaquille O'Neal said "Groat players are going to afterward. make groat plays. In the grand 
llaslern and Jermaine O'Nnal sehemn of the game, the third got tangled with 5:25 lnft in the quart1~r was our undoing." half, and the two exchangnd Stojakovie and Jcrmaine hnatml words. Both were issued O'Neal scored back-to-back technical fouls, but llaslem also hoops to tie the game at 83 with was ehargmJ with an offensive 4:49 left, but another three­foul and was issued a second point play from Wade and two teehnieal after arguing that call. clutch baskets from Simien 
"Only three people thought the helped the Heat build the. lead foul was on me," llaslem said back to 92-85 with 1:57 left. al'terward, apparently taking a "We just let a game slip we thinly veilml shot at the oflidat­could have had," Tinsley said. ing erew. "I don't understand Jackson hit five of his first six it." shots -·including all three of 
Well, at least four people his 3-point tries -in the first 7 thought llaslem was guilty. 1/2 minutes, helping the Pacers 
"lie tried to. bend my arm take a 29-28 lead after the baek," .Jermaine O'Neal said. "I opening quarter. don't know when he became Midway through the second tough, but all of a sudden, he quarter, things got heated with bneamn tough. It's in his best the llaslem-O'Neal exchange. inten~st to coneentrate on get­And Miami did not respond well, ting a rnbound and be quiet." ending the half in an 0-for-11 
.Jason Williams added 18 drought. All five points the Heat points for Miami, which outre­managed in the final 5 minutes bounded Indiana 53-32 and of the half were from the foul moved doser to wrapping up its line, and Indiana built a 53-42 second straight Southeast lead at the break. Division title. Antoine Walker "We came totally unglued had 11 for Miami. after the altercation," Heat 
Stephen Jackson scored 22 coach Pat Riley said. "As a points for Indiana, whieh got 19 team, when the emotional level more from Pnja Stojakovie and gets ratcheted up somewhat, 17 from Jermaine O'Neal, who you have to maintain what I call fouled out in the final minute. 'it,' a real high competitive level Jamaal Tinsley seored 10 for the but keep it together. We didn't Pacers. (but) we gathered ourselves really well in the third quarter." 
The Heat made 12 of their 
first 18 shots in the opening 
11 :01, then missed their final 

try of the first quartor and 24 of 
28 attempts in the second quar­
ter. Haslem was the only Miami 
starter to make a field goal in 
the period; the Pacers held the 
other four Miami starters to an 
combined 0-for-14 showing. 
No Miami player was disrupt­ed more than Wade, who was 4­for-5 from the floor in the first 
7:51 _but needed 12 attempts to make his next basket, a reverse layup with 9:19 left that tind the game at 75. 
"Every time we play them, it's a rough game,'' Wade said. 
Nets 110, Suns 72 
New Jersey's dominance of Phoenix was so stunning that Nets coach Lawrenee Frank had trouble keeping track of it. 
Nenad Krstic had 21 points and 10 rebounds, and the Nets won their ninth straight game, holding the Suns to their lowest point total of the season in a rout on Monday night. 
"Midway through the third quarter, I was working on my math skills," Frank said. "I said to one of the assistants, 'We're up what?' I couldn't figure out what it was. No one could have expected this. I had to look up at the scoreboard a couple of times to make sure the math was right." 
Vince Carter added 20 points for the Nets (41-28). who trimmed their magie number to clinch the Atlantic Division to five and the number to clinch an Eastern Conference playoff berth to two. 
The 38-point margin of victory was the biggest of the season for the Nets, whose previous best was a 28-point victory over Golden State on Dee. 18. That came during the Nets' season­high 10-game winning streak from Dee. 16 through Jan. 8. 
The Suns shot a franchise­worst 26.8 percent (26-of-97). The previous worst shooting night occurred 35 years ago, when the Suns shot 29.7 percent against Atlanta on March 10, 1971. 
"It was just one of those nights," the Nets' Richard Jefferson said. "It was a combi­nation of us playing good defense and getting good looks and good shots. We were fortu­nate to get them on a night where they didnt hit their shots." 

It was the second impressive victory in two nights for .the Nets, who won at Detroit 79-74 on Sunday night. 
"It was a rare opportunity in this league to take on two elitp teams on back-to-back nights, playing teams with two different styles and come away with two wins," Frank said. 
Hornets 104, Jazz 80 
Deron Williams had 20 points and five assists, and the Utah Jazz ended a two-game losing streak by beating the New Orleans Hornets Monday night. 
All five Utah starters scored in double figures and the Jazz pulled away with a 14-0 run in the third quarter while improv­ing to 33-37 -passing the slumping llornets (32-37) in the Western Conference standings. 
Both teams still trailed Sacramento (35-35) for the No. 8 seed in the playoffs. 
Matt 1-Iarpring had 15 points and 11 rebounds for Utah, which shot 56 percent (37 -for­
66) from the floor and outre-bounded the llornots 45-23. 

Carlos Boozer had 21 points and eight rebounds and Andrei Kirilenko finished with 13 points, eight assists, live blocks and six rebounds. 
The Hornets lost for the 12th time in 13 games and fell to 0-3 on a road trip that wraps up Wednesday at Golden State. 
Rasual Butler led the Hornets with 15 points. 
Leading scorer David West wasn't with the Hornets on Monday because of a sprained left ankle. The Hornets could have used him, especially in the second half as they scored just 28 points. 
Speedy Claxton scored 13 for the Hornnts in the f'irst half, then was shut out in the final two periods. New Orleans led by six in the second quarter before Utah took over the lead for good just before halflime. 
The Jazz selected Williams over Chris Paul with the No. 3 overall pick in the draft last summer and Williams outscored his fellow rookie 20-11, although Paul did have two more assists. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. w 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Summer Camp Counselor for chil· dren wldisabilities. Must have strong work ethic and be interested in making a difference in the life of a child. $7-$11 hr., 35 hrlwk, summer only. 5 sites in Summit County. Ohio. Must enjoy outdoor activities. Visit www.akroncyo.org to download an application from the Job Opportunities link. EOE 
Nanny wanted for infant & toddler. WTHF during academic year & 6 weeks in summer full time. ND fami­ly. Contact 246-0572 or ekenned1 @nd.edu 
FoR SALE 
4 bdrml2bth newly remodeled house near campus. $87.000. 220· 8666. 


TICKETS 
TOP DOLLAR PAID FOR YOUR FOOTBALL SEASON TIX. PLEASE CALL 277-1659. 
O.A.R. tix first 3 rows & James Ta:tlor. Call 272-7233. 

FoR RENT 
THE BEST HOME IS NOW AVAIL· ABLE FOR THE COMING SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-6 STUDENTS ALL THE AMENITIES 2773097 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2·6 BEDROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 
3,4,5.6 bedroom homes. Web site:mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary 574-993·2208 or grooms@ourweb­spot.net 
515 St.Joe: 7 bdrm,area of student rentals. $12001mo. 574-250-7653 
1-7 bdrm. homes starting@ $2001student. 24-hr.maint.,free pool tables, 1st mo.free. Call574-250­7653 or visit bluegoldrentals.com 
Two story house completely remod­eled 2003. Ready for immediate occupancy or next school year. Off street parking includes motion sen­sor light for security. Four individual­ly locked bedrooms, central station monitored security system, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student housing, Laundromat next door, basement available for storage of bicycles. luggage, trunks, etc., new furnace and central air, new kitchen including new stove and refrigerator, large living room for TV or entertain­ing, free trash removal. Call 289·4071. 

Just 1 block from campus! For lease, 4 brand new 3 bedroom con­dos ranging from $1500-$2200 per month. 574·243·4554 ext.203. No utilities included. 
4 bdrml2 bth house near campus. 
$1350. 220-8666. 

Beautiful 4bdrm house, 1.5 baths, CIA. Gas stove,microwave,fridge, & WID. 2-car garage. Walk to NO. $1,4001mo ($350 per room). 574· 277-1875. 
Come live at the POTATO HOUSE. 
19237 Cleveland, close to NO. Call Giovanni 586·405-8715. 
Furnished 4BR house near ND. ADT,air,laundry,dishwash,base­ment,yrd. 287-4961. 
Looking for lodging for home foot­ball games? Call574-276-8417 for details. 
Lake Cottage 4 rent Aug. to May. 269-699-5928. 
Furnished 4BR house near NO. ADT,air,laundry,dishwash,base· ment,yrd. 287;4961. 
HISTORIC HOME-CHAPIN PK. 2800 slf+base,LR wlfp,4 bdrms,study + finished 3rd fl. Full appliances + WID, 3 porches. 413 W. NAVARREI$1250+util. 574-2322167 or 574-2613184 www.xog.comlpropertyi413WestNav arre.html 


WANTED 
MISSING: Wife named Eurydice. Vanished from cornfield into thin air. Reward for info leading to return. Bloody hell. Orpheus. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude. esc at 631-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Individuals/Clubs: Sell I Love the Irish Flags Great for Dorms & activi­ties! Contact: Shamrock@ilovetheirish.com or 808 943-8524. www.ILoveThelrish.com 
NEED A CAMPUS JOB FOR NEXT YEAR? Join the Student Activities staff. Real Jobs. Real Experience. Real Money. Application deadline is Monday, April 3. Visit: sao.nd.eduljobs for more info. 
Internet in the locker room? Unbelievable. 
Chris Reitsma: Hopefully dead. 

--------~----------------------­
Tuesday, March 28, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 


~~LJr *Lt~i'f'~:· .f1Jftit'*w"fi£'<.Jti;r;;~.,~ ,,,,_mz•' ll.•tl:tJ.ii'ii'•Jfl~i•'' · ,a; " 'fit r:*'.•. 1'_·._._-~ li_.·llll_• ·1·1.... •:·1~•.. ,. ili'",.··1·····.···1
~ ...... ,...,., -'!ii !!!! 1'1. "L "@@ -~ 
c.·aiqlim }{1[~;;~.11 ··m -~ 11..7H~.l~!I:J 11"~" ~~~r,·~;ar~ I~···n-···· nc·I""(*I(Ju H:;a:ch~J "*'lAt;·••• -f•J41i 7Jttll•l~ lfll' l'lvu,s•nia .n.:i ..!f~ u 
~ 







OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, March 28, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THr OBSERVER'S wrRr SERVlCEs page 14 
NBA Standings Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
Lnam  r•word  pet.  GB  
New Jersey  40-28  .588  
Philadelphia  32-37  .464  8.5  
Boston  29-42  .408  12.5  
Toronto  26-44  .371  15  
New York  19-50  .275  21.5  

Eastern Conference, Central Division 
tParn rnronl pet. GB 
Detroit 54-14 .797 Cleveland 41-29 .586 14.5 Indiana 35-33 .515 . 19.5 Milwaukee 35-35 .500 20.5 Chicago 31-39 .443 24.5 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
tnarn rneord pet. GB 
Miami 46-23 .667 Washington 35-33 .515 10.5 Orlando 27-43 .386 19.5 Atlanta 21-47 .309 24.5 Charlotte 19-52 .268 28 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team n~t:orcl fWL GB Denver 40-31 .563 Utah 32-37 .464 7 Minnesota 29-41 .414 10.5 Seattle 28-41 .406 11 Portland 20-50 .286 19.5 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pet. GB 
Phoenix 47-21 .691 LA Clippers 41-28 .594 6.5 LA Lakers 38-34 .528 11 Sacramento 35-35 .500 13 Golden State 30-38 .441 17 
Westem Conference, Southwest Division 
team reeord pet. GB 
San Antonio 54-16 .171 
Dallas 54-16 .771 
Memphis 41-29 .586 13 
New Orleans 32-36 .471 21 
Houston 30-40 .429 24 
Golfstat NCAA Women's Golf Top 20 
team record vs. top 25 

1 Duke 207·0 24-0 2 UCLA 205·2 21·2 3 Oklahoma State 204·3 21-3 4 Cal 204·3 18·3 5 Vanderbilt 203-4 20-4 6 Auburn 201·6 15-5 7 New Mexico 199·8 15-8 8 Ohio State 199·8 16·8 9 Southern California 197-10 13·10 10 Georgia 196·11 13·11 11 Texas 196·11 13-11 12 Arizona 196·11 12·11 13 Washington 196·11 12·9 14 Stanford 193-14 8·12 15 UNLV 192·15 11-13 16 Wake Forest 192·15 9·15 17 Tennessee 192-15 10-14 18 florida 189-18 8-15 19 North Carolina 187·20 4-20 20 Furman 186·21 3-20 
around the dial 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKElBALL TOURNAMENT Regional Finals, 7 p.m., ESPN 
NIT MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT Old Dominion vs. Michigan, 7 p.m., ESPN2 South Carolina vs. Louisville, 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NCAA BASKETBALL 


Associated Press 
J.J. Redick of Duke and Adam Morrison of Gonzaga spent all season locked in a bicoastal seoring race. Fittingly, they ended it as the only unanimous selec­tions for The Associated Press' All~America men's basketball team. 
Redick, the most prolific 3-point scorer in eollege history, was a repeat ehoice. He and Morrison were joined on the first team Monday by Redick's teammate Shelden Williams, Randy Foye of Villanova and Brandon Roy, Washington's first All­America in 53 years. 
Indiana's Mareo 

Killingsworth and Chris Quinn from Notre Dame, both seniors, were honor­able mentions . 
Redick and Morrison gave fans a "Can you top this?" seoring eompetition that ended with both receiving all 72 first-team votes from members of the national media panel that selects the weekly Top 25. The voting took plaee before the NCAA tourna­ment. 
Morrison, the only junior on an otherwise all-senior first team, won the seoring title with a 28.4 average, just ahead of Redick's 27.4. Morrison shot 43.7 pereent from 3-point range, while Redick hit 42.1 pereent 
IN BRIEF 
Roddick ready for Greul 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. -Andy Roddick heads into the fourth round of the Nasdaq-100 Open with only sketchy information about his next opponent. 
"I know what he looks like," Roddick said. 
Qualifier Simon Greul is a 24-year­old German ranked 130th. He carne to Key Biscayne with a career record of 1-5 on the ATP Tour. Unnerved playing on the stadium court Monday, he won a total of four points in the first set against Tim llenman. 
But the upstart from Stuttgart rallied Lo beat Henman 0-6, 6-1, 7-5, and he'll face Roddick on Tuesday. 
''I'm going to ask around and try to get more of an in-depth seouting report," Roddick said. 
It's an improbable pairing in a sec­tion of the draw Lhat induded Grand Slam champions Marat Safin and Lleyton Hewitt. Greul outlasted both and Pliminated three top-60 players. 

from beyond the arc. 
"It is a testament to the type of season each of us has had," Redick said. "Adam is certainly a great player and it is an honor to be unanimous pick along with him." 
Morrison said being an All-Ameriea isn't "some­thing you think about receiving when you start your eollegiate career, but to be assodated with some of the great names of col­lege basketball is an honor. I guess to be a unanimous pick with J.J. seems only fitting since the two of us have been followed so dosely this year. He's a great player." 
Morrison is Gonzaga's 
second All-America, joining Dan Dickau in 2002. 
This is the second time in three years there were two unanimous seleetions. In 2004, Jameer Nelson of Saint Joseph's and Emeka Okafor of Connecticut were unanimous. 
Redick is the first repeat first-teamer sinee Jason Williams, another Duke guard, in 2001 and 2002. 
Redick and Williams, a senior center who averaged 
18.4 points and 10.3 rebounds while shooting 58 percent from the field, are the ninth set of teammates to be selected to the first team and the first since Jason Williams and Shane Battier of Duke in 2001. 

Man convicted of assault for 
punching Ron Artest 
ROCHESTER HILLS, Mich. -The man accused of sparking the brawl between players and fans at The Palaee of Auburn Hills in 2004 was eonvicted of assault Monday for punehing Ron Artest. 
John Green was aequitted, however, of throwing a cup at Artest -who was playing for the Paeers at the time ­before the forward charged into the stands and began fighting with Detroit Pistons fans. 
Green was the last person with a case pending after the brawl, one of the worst in U.S. sports history. 
lie faces up to 93 days in jail and a $500 fine. Sentencing was scheduled for May 1. 
The 41-year-old eontractor showed no emotion as the verdicts were read. Green and his attorney, Shawn Patrick Smith, said afterward that they would appeal on grounds that Artest was not present for the trial. 
NFL announces portion of 
its 2006 Schedule 
ORLANDO, Fla. -A Thursday night season opener featuring Miami at Super Bowl champion Pittsburgh, and a Thanksgiving night game at Kansas City highlight a portion of the NFL seheduled announeed Monday. 
The league's new tradition of opening on a Thursday night moves to NBC, which has taken over one of the prime-time television packages. The Dolphins, who finished 9-7 last season, will play at the Steelers on Sept. 7 at 8:30 p.m. EST. 
NBC's first Sunday night matchup will be a brotherly quarterback feud between the Mannings as Peyton brings his Indianapolis Colts to the Meadowlands to play Eli and the Giants at 8:15p.m. EST. 
The main national TV double­header game for the full opening day Sept. 10 has Dallas at Jacksonville at 4:15p.m. EST. 
Tuesday, March 28, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
CLUB SPORTS 
Men's volleyball reaches tournament semis 
Men Is and women Is Ultimate host, win tournament crowns 
Special to The Observer 
The No. 21 Notre Dame men's volleyball club took to the courts for the first time since breaking into the top-25 national rank­ings for the first time in three years. The Irish opened play at Marquette against Wisconsin­Milwaukee, and won decisively 25-15, 25-16. The Irish dropped their second match to No. 2 seed Lakeland with a score of 25-23, 25-18. In the final opening bracket play, the Irish were vic­torious over Illinois-Chicago, 25­28, 25-24, behind aggressive serving and solid defense. 
In their fourth match, the Irish avenged a defeat earlier this season to Northern Illinois, rid­ing the serves of Mike Toomey to a 25-17, 28-30, 15-13 win. The Irish then fell in the semifi­nals to Wisconsin-Oshkosh, the number one ranked team in the country, 25-17,25-16. 
"We played a great tourna­ment," Irish captain and middle blocker Ryan Goes said. "We beat the teams we should have and fought with the teams who were better." 
Sailing 
Six members of the Notre Dame sailing team headed south last weekend for a break from the snow and a chance to sail in the Eckerd Invitational at Eckerd College in St. Petersburg, Fla. The Irish took lOth among the 12 teams that competed. 
Eighteen races were held on 
"We played a great
Roy and junior tions and varying Kathryn Hoodecheck tournament.,, river current of finished third in the the early-season last two races to Lubbers Cup 
secure the team's· Ryan Goes Regatta. The race overall finish. men's volleyball captain 
course was 
The annual 2006 
University of notre dame Student peace conference 
Friday March, 31st ...... Saturday April 1st 


ATTEND ANY OR ALL OF 14 DIFFERENT PANELS AND PRESENTATIONS THROUGHOUT THE DAY 
To be held at: The Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Visit: www.nd.edu/-krocinst/events/stuconf06 for more information 

(7:17) in the varsity 4A event. Tara Morin coxed the light­weight four of Nick Kluesner, Dan Murphy, P.J. McAward and Jordan Frankel to a fourth place finish in a time of 7:52. 
Two Notre Dame boats raced in the varsity 4B t;lVent. Radhika Deva's crew of Brandon Carroll, Andrew Baker, Brendan McNutt and Michael Giordano took fifth in 7:56, while Julie Lambe's crew of Teddy Hawks, Steve Maher, Jake Teitgen and Joseph Blakely took fourth in 7:24 after being barely edged out by the Michigan (7:19) and Grand Valley (7:22) crews. Chip Brady's novice 4-crew of Andrew Matasic, Johann deSousa, Craig Wiborg and Tomas Castillo placed third in their event with a time of 7:32. 
Lambe's second varsity eight­crew of Scotty Campbell (stroke), P.J. McAward, Bill Blosky, Andrew Baker, Michael Lutkus, Michael Giordano, Nick Kluesner and Dan Murphy raced into third place with a powerful sprint, finishing in 
6:26. Notre Dame's first varsity 8 crew lost to Grand Valley by one second to finish fourth in its e.vent. The oarsmen in the top men's boat, coxed by Gianna Gutierrez, were Dan Pearson (stroke), Nick Mathew, Jake Teitgen, Joseph Blakely, Teddy 
.Hawks, Pithey Catella.  Steve and b Maher,· Kane owman Nick  
Sailing  

The Notre Dame sailing team hosted the annual Freshmen Icebreaker this past weekend on St. Joe's Lake. Fourteen teams from throughout the Midwest competed in the regatta. Notre Dame was led by skipper Jaci Chase and crew Joe Peris, who won the B division by consis­tently finishing in the top three. Paul Cordes and Tricia Hughes sailed in the A division and fin­ished in sixth place in their divi­sion, helping the team to a third-place finish overall behind Michigan and Owens College. 
A total of 13 races were held in both the A and B divisions. The remaining field, in order of finish, was Wisconsin, Bowling Green, John Carroll, Marquette, Michigan Blue, Miami (Ohio), Michigan State, Purdue, Iowa and Western Michigan. 
Ultimate 
The Notre Dame ultimate club held Whitesmoke, its lOth annu­al home tournament, this week­end at Riehle and West Quad fields, the first on campus venue in seven years. Ten men's and women's teams from throughout the 'area participated in the two­day event, including a team of Notre Dame women's ultimate alumni. The Irish women's squad defended their tourna­ment title, finishing undefeated for the weekend. 
During pool play on Saturday, the Notre Dame women opened up strong in their first game against Valparaiso. The stellar play of Notre Dame sophomor,e Loretta Brown and senior Kasey Farrell opened up the field and allowed the Irish to score easily against the Valparaiso defense, leading the team to a 13-2 win. The momentum of this win car­ried over to the team's next game against Michigan State B, where the experienced handling duo of seniors Chrissy Hedges and Lizzy Shiel broke down the zone defense and maintained strong offensive flow. This game was also a win for Notre Dame by a 10-1 margin. 
The third game of the day was against Illinois. Senior Chris Dube led Notre Dame to its third win of the day (12-6). Notre Dame sophomores Shannon Morrison and Shields Duss also looked more confident as han­dlers and made a number of great long passes to open up the game. Notre Dame's final Saturday game was against the alumni team. Both teams were evenly matched and traded points throughout most of the game. Irish juniors Rachel Meeks and Jen Pruchnik aided the Notre Dame effort with their abilities both as handlers and as receivers. The undergraduate team was unable to overcome the years of experience on the alumni team and lost 11-8. 
The tournament bracket began Sunday, and Notre Dame opened up against North Park. Notre Dame sophomore Libby Whiting played solid defense and Kerstin Palm had multiple endzone receptions that helped the team coast to a 13-0 victory. In the semifinals, Notre Dame defeated Ohio Northern, 13-5. The tournament finals featured a rematch of last year's finals, with the Irish facing off against Michigan State. The Spartans employed a zone defense to keep the score close in the first half, but in the second half Notre Dame pulled away, earn­ing a 13-5 win. For the second straight year, the Notre Dame women's team won its home tournament. 
The men's squad opened play against Marquette. With han­dlers Kyle Engoian and Andy Huffman swinging the disc well and throwing several big 
breaks, the Irish won handily with a final score of 13-4. 
Notre Dame then faced off against Western Michigan. The Irish came out strong, with freshman cutters Daniel Reimer and Danny Collom making good deep cuts and stretching the Western Michigan defense out. With the score 12-0, Ryan Butler threw a picture-perfect Hammer for a score to make the count 13-0. The Irish went on to win the game 14-1. 
Next, the Irish faced off against the Minnesota club team, Dingwop. The Irish traded points early, but as the game progressed a few key defensive breaks by Notre Dame freshman Ryan Gorman, helped the Irish win the game 13-8. 
For the last game of the day, the Irish played the Notre Dame alumni team, which boasts many players that play for nationals-caliber club teams. Patient offense helped the Irish score every time they received the disc and tight defense gave the alumni no slack. An early layout D by Notre Dame sopho­more Michael Florack helped set the tone for the entire game. When the. alumni looked for deep bucks, Notre Dame junior Steven Kurtz and graduate stu­dent Christopher O'Neill were right there to sky the alumni. Going to their own deep threat, senior Barrs Lang, Notre Dame capitalized on turns and slowly worked their way to a 15-11 vic­tory. For the last 10 points of the game, the alumni ran an excel­lent zone defense against the 

· Irish, but good work on the wings, especially on the part of Irish sophomore Nick Chambers, helped spread the defense out. 
Saturday, taking advantage of the winds that increased from five to 15 knots as the day pro­gressed. Notre Dame sopho­mores John Dailey and Caroline Nally began the regatta with a strong presence, taking eighth in their second race in the A division. Sophomore Chris May and junior Amy Becker followed with a fifth-place finish in their second race in the B division. 
Conditions Sunday began with winds around 12 knots, which slowly lightened as the last six races of the regatta were com­pleted. The dying winds did not hurt the Irish per­formance. Notre Dame sophomore Tim 
Notre Dame fmished ahead of follow MCSA representative Ohio and close behind Miami (Ohio). 
Cycling 
The cycling club participated in two criteriums this weekend, hosted by Marian College. The first was in Indianapolis and the second raced on Marian~s cam­pus, also in Indianapolis. Veteran cyclists Geoff Gisler, Matt Prygoski, Tim Campbell, Ty Baker and Meghan Johnson were joined by Jonathan Weyerbacher, Peter Nistler and Nathan Menendez for the Irish. 
Prygoski, Gisler and Campbell raced the men's B Division and all finished in the middle of the pack, while teammate Johnson had the club's strongest showing in the women's B event, finish­ing among the front riders. 
Weyerbacher competed with Nistler and Menendez in the D Division, and finished among the top-10, with Menendez not far behind. 
Sunday's course was a very technical layout, and Prygoski led the team with a top-20 fin­ish. Campbell and Gisler both finished with a chase group in the low 30's. 
Men's Rowing 
Notre Dame's eight-man and four-man crews began their spring racing season in Grand Rapids, Mich. The crews raced in the traditional­ly inclement weather condi­
adjusted to 1,700 
meters to account for the "crews rowing into an unusually strong current. The Notre Dame men squared off against crews from Michigan, Michigan State, Grand Valley State, Western Ontario, Western Michigan and Northern Michigan. 
The novice men's eight-man crew opened its season of racing in strong form. Notre Dame coxswain Bryce Chung led his crew of Karol Grzesiak (stroke), 
T. Riley Mazzacavallo, Andrew Matasic, Ray Schleck, Taylor Donaldson, Matt Napierski, Rob Bowen and Matt Degnan to a third-place fmish in 6:48 after a slow start. Notre Dame's top four-man crew of Dan Pearson, Nick Mathew, Karol Grzesiak and Nick Catella was coxed by Gianna Gutierrez to fourth place page 16 

SMC GOLF 
Belles finish 11th at Northern Kentucky 
Dayton. By BECKI DORNER Drury's Tanya Choate was Sports Writer the medalist of the weekend. 
She was the only player in the 

Saint Mary's turned in an field who finished under par overall scorn of 674 and fin­(143, one-under par). ished 11th out of 17 teams last Bolstered by Choate's score, weekend at the Northern Drury finished with a first­Kentucky Spring Invitational. plaee 626, 40-over par. Second 
The Bnlles turned in a solid place Ferris State trailed Drury tnam performance on the by four strokes. !i,983 yard. par-72 eourse, The other Belles' tallies this dnspitn dealing with cold weekend were O'Brien's 169 weathnr and snow during their (49th plaee), Nicole Bellino's 
rounds on Saturday. 
Saint Mary's senior M11gan Mattia led the Bellns with a two-day I (J 1 ( 1 7-o v n r par). Slw shot an 82 on tlw lirst day and a 79 on the se1:ond day ­good enough for :~Oth plaen in a linld of IJ I golfers. 
"W11 playPd WPII 
171 (56th),"We beat a couple Kirsten Fantom's 175 (63rd place)
division two teams 
and Sei's 177
and a division one 
(66th place). team. which is O'Brien said 
always fun." the team has 
been putting in a lot of hard work 
Megan Mattia 
that is starting to Belles golfer pay dividends. "I am very 

this wnokl'nd," Mattia said. "We heat a coupiP division t.wo teams and a division one team. whieh is always fun." 
Saint Mary's displayed its depth with contributions from sophomore Kalin ()'Brinn and frnshman Alex Sei. in addition to strong pnrformanees by throe seniors .that allownd thmn to linish higlwr than sPv­nral Division I tnams. ineluding proud of the team and look for­ward to what our futuro as a team holds," O'Brien said. 
The Belles have a ehance to improve their season when thny travel to Capital University in Lockbourne, Ohio for a two-day tournament Friday and Saturday. 
Contact Becki Dorner at rdorner1@nd.edu 

MLB 
Bonds hoping to 'stay sane' as season begins 
Associated Press 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -Seven home runs shy of passing Babn Huth, this should be a time of unbridlnd joy and excitement for Barry Bonds. 
Not so, he says. 
"My life is in shambles. It is erazy," Bonds said Monday in an interview with The Assoeiated Press. "It couldn't get any crazier. I'm just trying to stay sane." 
Then, clearly joking, he went for shock value: 
"Go to the Empire State Building and jump off, commit suicide and people can say, 'Barry Bonds is finally dead.' Except for in San Francisco," he said. 'Til leave something for them." 
Despite those pronounce­ments, the 41-year-old Bonds has been upbeat and approach­able -by his standards -this spring despite the recent release of "Game of Shadows," the book detailing his alleged longtime regimen for taking performance-enhancing drugs. 
lie appllars unfazed at the plate. lie's 1 0-for-16 with four homers in 11x hibition play despite being held out of San Franciseo's linnup for the third straight day because of a tender loft nlbow. 
Bonds starts the snason nnxt Monday at San Dingo with 708 homnrs, dose to Huth and 48 from brnaking !lank Aaron's mark of 7!i!i. 
Asknd how he blocks out dis­tradions. he says: 
"What's rny job deseription'! That's what I'm doing at that time," Bonds said. "No, I don't forget (what is said). I will never forget. I forgive you but I don't forget. I forgive every­body." 
Bonds teased about starting the season on the disabled list, -saying "it could happen" ­then changed his stance com­pletely and said he "will" play in one of the Giants' exhibition games back in the Bay Area later this week. 
Bonds certainly looks healthy and vibrant, though still a little heavier than usual. 
He spent the morning slurp­ing a smoothie while sitting in his corner locker, and wrestling with his personal videographer in the clubhouse. He stopped by the card table to socialize with teammates, too. Later, he had a lengthy sitdown with players' union head Donald Fehr. 
Bonds is scheduled to return to California on Tuesday -one day before the Giants officially break camp in Arizona -and work out Wednesday in San Francisco. 
Bonds played in only 14 games last season, all in September, following three operations on his troublesome right knee. An exam over the weekend on his elbow revealed inflammation. 
"It's fine," Bonds said. "The knee is good.... I've just got to get my strength back. My legs are fine. I just took a couple weeks orr from training." 
Bonds joked that he is ready for the season to start because tlwn "it's closer to being over." lie is in the final year of a $90 million, five-year contract and will be eligible for free agency al'ter the World Series. 

The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 28, 2006 
Expanding.Our Liturgical Horizons 
Saint f\.iar)t~s CoEiq,r<e Ct.Ttt..:r for Spiritualit,., Sprin:;:: L.-:.~tt.iflt.L Serk·s 
\V(;."ldm.~.~;J )wta:reh 29, 21..)()6 t:(,,.._ JM1111.
... '"""'" 
L...• l\"1atll* I I;, II 
St:11!ij'lle:t~.:tn l,_tli!Uttt<;,"\;;~ 
Tlte ..Et«'lf•m·iz-;c:: 
l·Jist~-·I'~<P'Ir"i~ii!h<i 
c~nd C:"wrtrYt!'Uf 
(.:Z,;lt<.~riru.::· Vind<t·-., RSt 1!\·1, r1... [1 /\sc.;;ox~:i;Jte t~'n.lf~~~r.:r,. ~;t.,;·r;,n:o;;;:tlLi! ~w~d i.ll•t~£int~ 'Tlt~:t.l'I();J.!Y :\.\l~th'Hii"' hH41I U't(.', $.1~ltl (~.,;lUi.;;, lJ1W'•.'i,;"l~i1 y, 
. St. 1-"•ui.,., ~K) 
·•··... ,.: •..· .·· ·•.•· •.•.....•... ·.. . " .. t~ -!!) l.ttf-+h·.k:~ • cm<%il. i'<<.tw-.•trruii@'...,,i.nt•n••n·.., .,,._-.:lu 



c..:onu~ see this \veU k.nown actress who \Vas th·P voice of l)isney's .~... Pocahontas" 
Ma.rch 28, 2006 7:00PM 129 Debartolo 
Tuesday, March 28, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Golf 
continued from page 20 
ranks Notre Dame 15th in the Central region. 
Before the season began, Irish head coach Debby King said one of her team's long-term goals was to secure a spot in the NCAA tournament. King said the goal is still very much within reach but the Irish have not played as well as the coach would have liked. 
With poor performances in the Central District Classic February 19-21 and the 'Mo' Morial Tournament March 10­12, Notre Dame almost killed its chances for a post-season NCAA berth. 

The team placed 11th in a field of 14 teams at the Central District in Parrish, Fla. Two weeks later at the 'Mo' Moria!, Notre Dame finished last place in a field of 18. In both events, the Irish played many of their Central Region rivals. 
"After the first two tourna­ments, we were obviously very disappointed with our overall play," King said. 
But last week in the Dr. Donnis Thompson Invitational in Honolulu, Notre Dame found redemption with a fourth-place fmish against solid competition. 
"I talked to the team before the tournament in Hawaii and told them that they had to play really well in order to have a thread of hope [for an NCAA appearance]," King said. 
It was important for Notre Dame to beat UTEP and Kansas State and the golfers executed with an impressive 54-hole total of 906 -good enough to win those important head-to-head battles. 
The Irish head to Virginia for the James Madison Invitational April 8 and 9 where they will compete in their final tourna­ment before the Big East Championship. Neither of these two competitions will feature other teams from the Central Region and the squad will con­centrate solely on maintaining a low scoring average. 
"The tournament bids are determined based upon both scoring average and head-to head records, so we obviously still have something significant to play for," King said. 
The players also realize the importance of earning a spot in the NCAA Regional round. 
"We've gone to the tourna­ment the past two years so it would definitely be a letdown if we didn't get in," senior co-cap­tain Katie Brophy said. 
At the same time, Notre Dame understands how few teams make the tournament and how difficult it is to secure an invite. Unlike some the other major conferences, the Big East cham­pion does not receive an auto­matic berth so the Irish have to rely on an at-large bid. 
"[The NCAA tournament] is so prestigious so it would defmitely be a huge honor to be chosen again," Brophy said. "Hopefully, we can finish strong and get rewarded for it." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
Lllw~s Qmuulur.r: Tlu.~ (AIWllf.\} lmminentiJetltfl t~( tlu.' l..tm• 
a lecture bv
. 
S!c\cn D. Smith \\'arn.:n IJistitHWt~htd Professor of Law
., 
Umvcrsily ofSan IJ1ego Schooi ofLw~.\ 
I.a\\ School Comtf(I(Hll 
4:00f~>.lll. Frida\'. i\lar\~h 31. 2006
~· . -. . . 
Stt'l"'t'll Smitl1 iN tmtl oftltt• 11utilm ·s fort'IPUilf ~dmla" httlut an?a {~f hm· ami rcliJ,:itm tmd tt•cwlu•.\ i11 t/u~ areu.\ l~l/aw and rtligicm uuJ cnm.litutit.mallaw. 

Softball 
continued from page 20 
"Amram has been doing a stellar job," captain Bridget Grall said. "She has been a standout in the past couple of games." 
The Belles will look to leaders like Grall and Amram to continue their success against Robert Morris and through the rest 
Return 
continued from page 20 
Dame. Hubschmann took advantage of his chance to start his sophomore year after playing sparingly the previous season. 
Hubschmann started 11 games in 2004, notching 18 goals and 11 assists -good for 29 points 
of ths season. 
Captain Audrey Gajor said that the Belles have already discovered one of the keys to a successful season -the ability to wait. 
"We definitely saw what patience and discipline brings and we hope to con­tinue this," Gajor said of the team's wins over Rose­Hulman. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
ly helped me to have a posi­tive outlook. I wanted to do my rehab diligently because I knew that I would come back one day. It was just a matter of grinding through." 
While Hubschmann under­went a lengthy rehabilitation process, Notre Dame coach Kevin Corrigan understood his attackman's frustration. 
"He was really in limbo dur­ing the season because he did­

(third most on "Once I was back 
Notre Dame). 
running and playing, I 
These numbers 
came on a team was nervous that I that finished wouldn't be the same 
second in the 
player. I've been 
nation in scoring offense at 12.50 
fortunate, though, that goals per game my knee has held up." and his per­formance was 
Brian Hubschmann
good enough to earn himself a 
Irish attack 
spot on the Second Team All-Great Western Lacrosse League. 
Inside Lacrosse named Hubschmann Preseason Honorable Mention All­America before his junior year. Everything seemed to be in a place for a breakout 2005 season until a cruel twist ­literally. 
Hubschmann tore his ACL nine days before the season opener and he 
After his 
n't have surgery until after the season," said Corrigan. "It was a very frus­trating time for him, but I think he handled it well. His spirit really improved when he was able to start rehabbing his knee after the surgery." lengthy rehab 

process, Hubschmann was able to start working out again with his teammates before the start of the 2006 season, although his recovery was not complete. Still feeling the after effects of his injury, Hubschmann had doubts about returning to his pre­injury form. 
"Once I was back running 
and playing, I 

quickly knew his junior year was going to be spent  "Coming offan injury, you're trying  was nervous that I wouldn't be the same player,"  
watching  from  to get back to where  s  a  i  d  
the sidelines. "I took a hit and my whole  you were rather than improve."  Hubschmann. "I've been fortu­nate, though, that  
body  collapsed  my knee has held  
over  my knee,"  Kevin Corrigan  up."  
Hubschmann  Irish coach  Six games into  

s·aid. "I remem­ber being so dis­appointed because I knew we had something special that year. If you had asked me before the season, I would have said we had the best attack in the country." 
What began as a promising season ended up being spent in the trainer's room. Hubschmann, however, was fortunate to be able to draw on the experiences of others to help him fight through his injury. 
"My older brother and sister both tore their ACL's, and they came back better than ever," Hubschmann said. "That real-
the 2006 season, 
early returns show that the healing process is n;tore than complete. And Corrigan thinks Hubschmann can get even better this sea­son. 
"Coming off an injury, you're trying to get back to where you were rather than improve," Corrigan said. "He's really starting to get his skill set back now. I expect him to improve as a player now, and he has a chance to be one of the best players in the coun­try." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, March 28, 2006 
Despite spending most of his we wanted to give him a chance against Central Michigan. The Through its first seven games, time at Notre Dame as a reliev­to start a game and not come bottom of the order has been a Notre Dame scored only 21
Crusaders 
continued from page 20 
Dame's 4-2 loss to Wright State last Tunsday in its home opener as evidence of the damage any team can inflict upon another. 
Irish sophomore David Gruener will take the mound for Notre Dame. The lefty will be making his first start this season and his second overall in a Notre Dame uniform. 
er, Gruener is no stranger to the rotation. He started nine games -throwing one complete game -for the Hays (Kan.) Larks of the Jayhawk League last sum­mer, fanning 59 batters in 52 innings pitched. 
In six appearances this spring, Gruener has a 2.57 ERA with five strikeouts and three walks in seven innings. 
"David has pitched very well," Mainieri said. "We just thought out of the bullpen." 
Mainieri said Gruener will not pitch deep into the game and will most likely be limited to three innings. He will be replaced by a platoon of reliev­ers to spread experience around the Irish bullpen. 
The Notre Dame bats are coming off a strong week, dur­ing which Notre Dame scored 32 total runs in three games against Georgetown and one run factory for the Irish this season, with the eight and nine holes producing 35 out of the team's 113 RBis (31 percent). 

Seniors Greg Lopez and Cody Rizzo -who currently bat in the eighth and ninth spots ­lead the team in RBis with 19 and 18, respectively. 
But despite the recent f'irestorm of runs, Mainieri would like his team to score on a more consistent basis. 
runs. 
"Baseball's a funny game from one game to the next," he said. "Some guys swing well one day and not the next. We need to develop as much consistency as we can. We're two extremes ­we're either really good or real­ly poor. We want to be really good on a consistent basis." 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

Sharpley 
continued from page 20 
on the quarterback just to per­form at a high level," Sharpley said. "To add another sport on that -and the academics -is a high task." 
Arter "shadowing" starter Brady Quinn for most of last sea­son in practices, Sharpley said this is his time to make a state­ment in the competition with sophomore quarterback David Wolke for the second-string posi­tion. 
"Hight now, it's my opportuni­ty," Sharpley said. "I think it is a crossroad, as I make or break what I'm going to be." 
lie said he wants to make the most of spring practices before highly toutnd incoming freshmen quarterbacks Zach Frazer and Demetrius Jones arrive at Notre Dame this fall. 
Before committing to football full-time for the spring, Sharpley played in live games -with one start -for the baseball team, going 1-f'or-R with four strike­outs, a walk and one RBI. 
"I had first been recruited to play baseball here," Sharpley said. "It nmlly helped attract me to Notre Dame [to bn able to play both I." 
Weis said Sharpley's limited role in baseball contributed to the dedsion to have him concen­trate solely on football during spring praetien. 
"If [two-sport athletes[ are a major factor for the other team and are handling what they do academically, then they can play [the other sport]," Weis said at Notre Dame's spring media day March 21. "If Sharpley were going to start at first base hitting 25 home runs, I think he might be over there with the baseball team. But he's not." 
Notre Dame's other current baseball-football athlete, rising senior receiver Jeff Samardzija, will stick with baseball while attending six of Notre Dame's 15 spring practices, Weis said. 
As a starting pitcher for Mainieri's squad, Samardzija went 8-1 in 2005 with a 3.89 ERA. This season, Samardzija is 2-1 in five appearances with a 
3.72 ERA. Samardzija then set school records with 15 touch­down catches and 1,249 receiv­ing yards last season for Weis. 
"Jeffs already established him­self on the football field as well as the baseball field, so that's why he gets all the time on the baseball field right now," Sharpley said. "I haven't estab­lished myself at either spot, but I'm here to play football right now." 
Sharpley said leaving the base­ball team just a dozen games into his first season was dillicult. 
"I definitely would like to play IbaseballI." Sharpley said. "It was fun to get to go on a couple of the trips with the team. I'm still going to be around those guys and support them at some of the games, especially the home ones." 
Sharpley said once spring foot­ball ends he will rejoin the base­ball team full"time. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 


lnter:national 0 6 ' 
Festival Week 
:.Warcli 26th-./lprif1st 
Schedule of Events: www.nd.edu/ rvissa/festival.htm 
·: ;r·~·.·:a-:.:w ::.1 t-~ !1S:r:t"' N f.-}~ "' H ~·t't.r;;:-N-·~ t~ ~:::..":l~w.;"""')(:: ' n·os:.~t... c.~.t::~~.k bt:~) " ·:;u B >Cp -~~~ah, n:u~~~' ..... f.t~d: 1: t:'-J~ ....l .~· ~ ll~~ ... ~ i;~''f 4\ :~,~,H.t<,.tK.'f *" ::"·tp-:·· -ll -··.-::· •Nt~· rP. "'"-~-~·.;...·, tzntJ:v.~~~·• ..~ir.M.~\ ,4t ~ ~.of\." t-~·.-··~':w+:•' tf¥:>,_. .·:ri.._·., fi~~ottl~n(•·· ': ''t-··p .. f•'!>V-"f .. ~-;::y M· . .><3:At·:.z~ A~-,~-~ ...~"i-n:t.'"' h~±~t -~:LH~U!: +'!'\t<t)6~...:tlt.:;,x:n ..-: l tU.tn:.!'.J ... li¢ <".-ta.:<-~ :t:U.I'-~#:.it· '"' tJ.W~t.u c::.,.-t-..,. :+-:·..,..~~ ..~ fn~bt-d• 
ti SHORT ON FLEX POINTS;»;» 
~lS\Z WIN 200 DOMER DOllARS 

~~ ' ALSO, THE FIST 200 FANS RECEIVE AN IRISH SOnBALL GLASS SPONSORED BY:. & ~e:~J 
FACUlTY/STAFF DAY WIN ABAR-B-QuE FOR 25 PibPtE 
FIRST200 fANS RECEIVE ASPORT 
BOTTI! 

FIRST200 FANS RECEIVE A"GOLD GAMES" SHIRT 
WIN ARIGHT FOR2TO 
ORLANDO ON 
AUEGIANT 
AIR 

T uesdalJ, march cS@ S:OSptn 
vs, Valparaiso Wednesd~y, march c, @ S:OSptn VS, Western michigan free ftd111ission for Students 
Tuesday, March 28, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ALEC WHITE and ERIK POWERS 

JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 

CROISSANTWORLD 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 Fund for old 64 Baseball's age: Abbr. Musial
1 Swiss peaks 37 One under one 65 Duos
5 Bit of dust 38 Bit of bridal 66 Gait between 
10 It holds a bunch 
attire walk and canter 14 Blood fluids 
39 Giant 67 Duck's home 

15 Cather who 41 Catch_ (start 68 "Tiny Alice" vyrote "My to understand) playwright Antonia" Edward
42 Rationalization 16 Personal flair 44 Humble home 69 Diner sign 
17 Greeting for 45 Struggle for air Julius 
DOWN
46 Cash in a 

19 In position, as a cache, e.g. 1 Fireplace remnants
proffers an arm 49 Sand trap, for 3 Three for a
21 Destructive one dollar, e.g.
beetles 51 Following 4 Hairdresser's
23 Dictation taker 56 Oscar winner 
shop 24 Number of 
for "Kramer Vs. 5 Big baseball hit zodiac signs 

Kramer'' 6 Cobbler 26 Words to live by 
59 Star, in Paris 7 Raised railways 28 Rand McNally 
60 Org. that a Mauled, as by a product defends 
bear 32 24-hour individual rights 
9 Capek who conveniences, 61 Title song of a wrote "R.U.R." 
for short Prince film Fifth, in N.Y.C. N.B.A. and Ethel Mertz
10 Mel Torme's 
sobriquet, with 33 What's read 56 Trunk closer
50 Frank of the

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE ''the" 
34 Isinglass Mothers of 57 Eight: Prefix11 Jai 35 Illicit reserve Invention 58 Sweet Spanish12 Mast item 37 Mad about 52 Strong point dessert13 Means justifiers, 40 "_ Lang Syne" 
some say 59 Otherwise
53 Queer1's
43 Fraud 18 Relative of a headgear 62 Kid
47 Alternative togator 
22·Hoosier senator Bayh 24 Actress Garr 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
25 This puzzle's Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaytheme crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
· 27 Ceremony 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 31 Cease solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


55 Income for Fred 


HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

JJ~§[bJ]. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
LAQUI 

rJ 
1 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
1~1~~·-1 
tPITTEE rJ KNOWN TO LE:AVE: WHE:N TE:E:NAGE:RSIIJ HAVE: THE:IR 
www.jumble.com 
FRIE:NOS OVE:R.

tTHACLE t 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J rJ J 
1 suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ms: r I I I I JANDr I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday'siJumbles: HASTY BELIE STRONG FUTURE Answer: What the king experienced when he was awak­ened by the protesters-A STATE OF "UNREST" 
EUGENIA LAST 

HoRoscoPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Mariah Carey, 36; Quentin Tarantino, 43; Xuxa Meneghel, 43; Michael York, 64 
Happy Birthday: You will have a year with plenty of opportunities and setbacks. 
-An openness and entrepreneurial attitude will help you jump into the limelight. This is not the year to waste your time on anger or revenge but to see potential in what's being offered and go for it without hesitation. Your numbers are 4, 6, 13, 19,20,38 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Deception is prominent in your chart today. Ifyou feel the least bit suspicious, don't make a comment or decision. Someone may be trying to trap you into divulging information that may harm you in the future. *** TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): You can write your own ticket today ifyou go about things diplomatically. You will be able to come up with solutions and help people who will be indebted to you. A problem with someone in your family may require your attention. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You must be careful not to become so exuberant that you lead someone down a path with no ending. A relationship problem may get out hand ifyou are too aggressive. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You have everyone in your comer so don't hesitate now when you can gain the most. Take advantage of business travel opportunities. Plan a social evening to celebrate your day's victory. ***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Spend time fixing things up around your home. This is a great day to look at real estate or to invest. A chance to become involved in a business partnership looks good. Set careful rules and boundaries. ••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll be drawn into some interesting conversations today but be careful not to be a know-it-all. A dispute could break out, leaving you in a precarious position. A creative idea you have will go over well at work. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can make some significant headway in your professional goals. An innovative approach to something you've been doing will bring new life and meaning to your work. Communication, travel and keeping things in perspective will pay off. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Social or industry events will lead to a chance nieeting with someone who will lift your spirits. You will realize what you've been missing all along and will enjoy expanding your thoughts with people who have something interesting to offer. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't be fooled into thinking that everyone is on your side. Emotional matters will escalate ifyou decide to deal with them today. It may be a good time to cash in an investment.** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): There is money to be made ifyou are quick to react to a new idea or project. Take the lead position. Today is all about progress and taking action, something you do very well. •••• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be haunted by something from your childhood. Be honest with yourself and you will be able to overcome anything you face. Straightforward, honest action will be what saves you from making matters 
worse. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The truth will be discovered and, ifyou have been embellishing, you can expect to have to 'fess up. There will be lots ofdisappointment from those who have trusted you. Put pending problems behind you and move on. 
Birthday Baby: You have a fabulous imagination and a highly intuitive perspective on life and the people you deal with. You are unpredictable, sensitive and somewhat ofa dreamer. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fon, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your horne. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, March 28, 2006 
page 20 
BASEBALL 
Feeling neighborly 
The Irish look to beat in-state rival Valparaiso as the Crusaders battle a seven-game slump 
By KYLE CASSILY Sporrs Writer 
Valparaiso will take a short ridn east along the 1-XO toll road today to play Notre Damn in a 
5:05 p.m. game at Frank Eek Stadium. 
The Irish ( 12-S) catch the Crusaders (2-121 in a seven­ganw slump, including four losses in two days to South Dakota Statn. 
Valparaiso has strugglnd in its non-confnrPnee sdJPduln, hav­ing picked up only one-run vic­torins over Austin l'nay and Bowling (;rnnn. 
llownver, Notn~ Damn and head co1u~h Paul Mainieri rdusl~ to ovnrlook tlw team l'rorn thn Mid-Continent Confnnmen. 
"Baseball is the kind of game wlwrn you have to take !your opponPntsl one at a timn, or nlsn a tnam will eome up and bite you," Mainieri said. 
ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 
Mainieri rel'nn~nend Notre 
An Irish batter swings against Central Michigan during Notre Dame's 11-9 win over the see CRUSADERS/page 18 Chippewas March 22. The Irish face Valparaiso in a 5:05 p.m. game today at Frank Eck Stadium. 

FOOTBALL 
Sharpley will focus on football 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
Evan Sharpley agreed to give up one passion for another-for the next month, at lnast. 
Thanks to an agreement 
between Notrn Damn football ]wad r~oaeh Charlie Weis and baseball head coach Paul Mainieri. the Irish backup quar­terbac~k and first bas()man will stop play-

Sharpley ing basPball until spring football praetiens eondude, the freshman said after Notre Dame's fourth workout of the spring Monday. "There's so much prnssure put 
see SHARPLEY/page 18 

SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles batters look to ring up Robert Morris 
with Hobert Morris College Chicagoland Collegiate already driven in 87 runs in Amram has aided in the By DEIRDRE KRASULA today at 4 p.m. The Belles Athletic Conference (CCAC). its 12 games. The Belles defensive dominance, dis­Sports Writer (9-3) are coming off a strong They last faced Calumet power behirid the plate has playing force from the 
regular season opener, March 23 in a doubleheader also been met by outstanding mound. She has already gar­
The Belles will look to add sweeping Hose-1-lulman in a -taking both 4-2 and 6-0. defensive performances as nered four wins and thrown anothnr two wins to their doubleheader Friday. Saint Mary's has been a they have allowed only 18 a no-hitter in her career. season as they travel to Hobert Morris (9-7) is strong offensive team this runs this season. Orland Park, Ill. to face off ranked second in the season. The squad has Freshman pitcher Kristin see SOFTBALL/page 17 
MEN's LAcRossE 
Hubschmann no longer sidelined 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
Scoring three goals is just another day at the office ror Notre Dame~ snnior attack Brian llubschmann. 
llubschmann's three goals last Saturday against Hofstra brought his season total to 13 -giving"him at least five more goals than any other Irish player. The Hofstra gamn was the fifth contest in a row he led the Irish in scoring. 
llubsehmann has shown his versatility this season and leads Notre Dame with seven assists. His 20 points are sevnn more than his closest teammate, senior attack Pat Walsh (13). 
llubschma.un established himself on the field during his l'irst two seasons for Notre 
see RETURN/page 17 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

Irish keep postseason hopes alive 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 

After the first three tourna­ments of the spring season, Notre Dame is far from attaining an NCAA regional bid. 
But with one event remain­ing before the Big East Championship, the Irish still have a chance to reach the NCAA. Central Regional com­petition. The top 21 teams in each region arc admitted to the tournament. Golfstat.com 
see GOLF/page 17 

en 
SMC GOLF 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

NFL 
NBA 
NBA 
LLI 
Belles finish 11th 
ND competes as 
Redick Morrison 

Miami at 
Miami 96 
New Jerse~ 110 
z at Invitational 
ranked squad 
Phoenix 7
lead Ali-Americans 

Pittsburgh 
Indiana 91
li: :3 (,) 
Megan Mattia led 
The No. 21 Irish fell to 
The two stars from 

Thursday, Sept. 7 
The Heat overcame a 
A lopsided loss to the

=c:J 
Saint Mary's with a 17­
Wisconsin-Oshkosh in a 
opposite coasts were the 

The NFL schedule 
14-point deficit in the 
Nets was a low point for
c:z: 
over-par finish in the 
close match, losing 25­
only unanimous picks 

will open with the 
second half to beat the 
the Suns ::---their lowest 
annual NKU Spring 
17,25-16. 
on this year's AP All-

Dolphins facing the 
Pacers. 
score of the season. 

a. !:i 
America team. 
Invitational. 

defending champions. 
en page 16 
page 15 
page 14 

page 14 
page 12 
page 12 






