
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
NO still grapples with diversity issues 
Out ofthe approximately 2,025 me:ibers of the class ofZOl 0, 24.2o/o are>.ftom ethnically underrepresented groups. 
··~;::. 
.. 

This years freshmen class is 
madeyp of 
· 11% ······ Hispanic s~ 8°/o Asianor :P~ei 4.6o/o Aiican American .6% Native AJ;n~rican 
This year citizens offoreign countries make .. up 4% ofthe freshman class. 
By KAITLYNN RIELY News Writer 

The number of freshmen from ethnically underrepre­sented groups increased from a relatively stagnant 
21.2 percent to more than 24 percent this year as part of Notre Dame's continued quest to diversify the student body. 
That three percent jump is good -but not good enough, say University officials and students. And for some stu­dents, it can be hard to spot that increased diversity on a stereotypically homogenous campus. 
How diverse is Notre Dame's diverse? Slightly more than 24 per­cent of the approximately 
2,025 freshmen are from ethnically underrepresented backgrounds -meaning, groups that "based upon national figures [are] under­represented here at Notre Dame," said Dan Saracino, assistant provost for enroll­ment. 
This year's freshmen class consists of 11 percent Hispanic students, 8 percent Asian, 4.6 percent black and 
0.6 percent Native American. 
In an address to the faculty last October, University President Father John Jenkins listed promoting diversity -within both the student body and the faculty -as one of his five primary goals for the start of his 
see DIVERSITY/page 6 


Xerox printing center opens at Saint Mary's 
By LAURA BAUMGARTNER News Writer 
Printing services available at Saint Mary's were upgraded and expanded when Xerox Corporation took over the for­mer College-run printing serv­ices facility Aug. 15. The College decided to See Also 
stop operat­"Print Limit ing its own 
Debuts at Saint
printing facil­ity and Mary's College" brought in a 
page3
company to take over daily operations, Vice President of College Relations Shari Rodriguez said. 
The College has been investi­gating several ways to lower administrative costs, she said, and "the printing services oper­ation was just one example." 
Rodriguez did not return Observer phone calls regarding how much Saint Mary's expect­ed to save. As part of the search process, Rodriguez said the College "issued a request for proposal for management of the copy center." In the end, she said, the Xerox Corporation offered "the most attractive proposal." The new services provided by Xerox will continue to be housed in the College's facilities building, but the office name will be changed from Printing Services to The Document Center. 
The reason for this title change, Rodriguez said, is the 


Pineda lectures on faith, immigration 
By MARCELA BERRIOS News Writer 
Everyone -from congress­men to human rights activists -has voiced an opinion on immigration regulation and border enforcement, but per­
haps there is a simple, less bureau­cratic solu­tion to this highly com­plex prob­lem. 
W h a t would Jesus 


do? Pineda 
Theologian Ana Maria Pineda of Santa Clara University made her audi­ence question that Wednesday night at the Stapleton Lounge in Le Mans Hall, thus kicking off the "Bringing Tradition to Life" Lecture Series at Saint Mary's College. 
The lectures hope to "[breathe] new life back into our understanding of the [Catholic] tradition," which includes ideals such as extend­ing hospitality to the stranger, Director of the Center for Spirituality Sr. Kathleen Dolphin said. 
In the spirit of finding ways to adapt these endangered reli­gious principles to modern times, Pineda said, today's Catholics should simply act with compassion and generosity as is required of them -towards the less fortunate refugees and immigrants. 
see PINEDNpage 4 
range of services that will now be available. 
"It has been named a docu­ment center because of the variety of document services that are provided beyond sim­ply making copies," she said. "The operation will assist the College with finding the most efficient and cost-effective man­agement of document output." 
While The Document Center will still be a "full-service copy shop" that offers black and white and color copies, presen­tation support, document assembly, lab manuals, and sin­gle color offset printing, Rodriguez said, several new features will also be available to the College commu­nity. 
These services include on-line job submission, pick-up and delivery service and copyright clearance assistance, Rodriguez said. 
Along with the variety of services Xerox will be able to supply the College, one of the benefits of opting to have Xerox take-over printing services will be the company's "expertise that would be difficult to match in a self-operation," Rodriguez said. 
For now, Xerox will remain in control of printing services at the College for the next three years. At that time, Rodriguez said, there will be a re-bidding to determine future plans. 
Once the new academic building is completed, The Document Center will be moved from its current location to a 
see XEROX/page 8 

FACULTY SENATE 
Libraries dominate discussion 
Technology, fund allocation reviewed 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Associate News Editor 
At the Faculty Senate meet­ing Wednesday night, discus­sion centered on University libraries -a topic Chair Seth Brown called "more than appropriate" for the group's first session of the academic year. 
"We all know how important the library is to us as a faculty, in scholarship and teaching, and as a result, we as faculty tend to be passionate about the library," Brown said. 
For the bulk of the meeting, Director of Libraries Jennifer Younger and John Weber, chair of the University Committee on Libraries (UCL), spoke to the faculty members on the state of Notre Dame's library sys­tem, and the goals and strate­gies for improving its services -especially in the area of technology. Their comments were drawn primarily from a draft of the UCL's 2005-06 annual report and the draft report of the task force on University libraries, both of which were made available to the group. 
Weber went through the UCL's report, expounding on several of the more important 
see FACULTY/page 4 

Satire distinguishes Dillon rally 
By KATHLEEN MCDONNELL News Writer 
Every home football game has a pep rally complete with dorm cheers, the band and porn squad performances. But just one rally dares to poke fun at aspects of life under the Dome and send a fur-clad freshman around campus to advertise. 
Held once a year prior to Notre Dame's home opener, the Dillon Pep Rally will take place tonight at 7 p.m. on South Quad. 
Dillon men have been preparing the script through­out the summer and putting in long hours of rehearsal this fall, Dillon president and pep rally organizer Andy Hellmuth said. 
More than rehearsals, Hellmuth said, the most inte­
see DILLON/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, September 7, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO IS YOUR FAVORITE NOTRE DAME ATHLETE, AND WHY? 
Goodbye, 
Crocodile 
Hunter 
The Crocodile Hunter is dead ­long live the Crocodile Hunter. 
Steve Irwin, the famed Australian conservationist and television per­sonality has passed on and will no longer be able to make us Marty Schroeder laugh with his outgoing, accented per-Scene Writer sonality or his love for the nat­ural world. His memory will live on in the hearts and minds of his family, his country, the world and the countless animals he worked so hard to keep on this earth. 
This may seem tongue-in-cheek, that I am making fun of this man who did so much. However, this is plain wrong. I am merely trying to write this in manner of which he would have approved. He was a humorous man and his devotion to the animal kingdom coupled with his ubiquitous cry of "CRIKEE!" will not be soon forgotten. 
Some may seem him as a conser­vationist, others as a crazy man who endangered his own child, still oth­ers only as a crazy TV star. For some not from Australia, he may have been the definition of what that country in an opposite hemisphere is. 
He was a man with little fear and an extreme comfort with the natural world. In an age where we are more used to skyscrapers, Gucci bags and Ray-ban sunglasses, he represented for many a gateway to a world that we only, in a slight way, encountered on our childhood trips to the local zoo. 
The joy of the adrenaline rush and bringing human contact to animals was in him like few other men. The pantheon of conservationists and explorers, which include the likes of John James Audubon, Jacques Cousteau and Sir Ernest Shackleton, will now be able to add a new name -Steve Irwin -to those men who did much for the environment in an era when few cannot or do not want care about life outside their immedi­acy. 
Cousteau may have been dignified, Shackleton tough and Audubon wise, but Irwin was able to bring wildlife in a palatable way into the homes of millions with his jovial nature and distinct enthusiasm. Ask any child if they have heard of The Sierra Club or Greenpeace and I would bet that blank stares would be the usual reaction more often than not. 
But ask them if they know who the Crocodile Hunter is and watch the smiles ofjoy and hear the discovery they learned from his programs. 
This is not a joke that I am giving to you -this is a eulogy of respect for a great man that will be sorely missed throughout every city, forest and ocean in this world. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroedl@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publiction and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 







Adrienne Hearne  Frank Vento  Katelyn Theis  Mike Hawking  Kristen Blyth  Robbie Bernardin  
freshman Cavanaugh  freshman Stanford  freshman Cavanaugh  sophomore Siegfried  freshman Cavanaugh  sophomore Siegfried  
"Zbikowski,  "Sean Callinan  "Samardzija,  "Women's  "Zbikowski,  "Brady Quinn  
because he  [lacrosse},  because he plays  soccer, 'nough  because he has  because he  
sports a  because he  both football and  said."  a mohawk and  carries two  
mohawk and  works hard and  baseball. "  is basically just  unlicensed guns  
boxes. "  plays harder."  [awesome]."  and is an  


DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer 

Clad in Notre Dame gear, Irish quarterback Brady Quinn discusses the basics of the game at Walsh Hall's Football 101 in LaFortune on Wednesday. 
OFFBEAT 

Cell phones found inside four prisoners 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador -Cellular tele­phones were found inside four prisoners in El Salvador's maximum­security prison, authori­ties said Wednesday. 
The discovery was made Tuesday at the prison in Zacatecoluca, in central El Salvador, after suspicious officials took X-rays of each of the inmates, federal correc­tions chief Jaime Villanova said. 
The names of the pris­oners, all members of the dangerous Mara 
Salvatrucha gang, were not released in order to avoid jeopardizing an ongoing investigation that began a month ago, he said. 
Man robs bank to be 'supported' 
MANCHESTER, N.H. Police said Gaetan Roy had just lost his job, so he came up with a plan: Hob a bank, hang around, then get taken to jail to be "supported." 
Roy has been charged with robbing a St. Mary's Bank. Police said he walked into the bank Friday and handed a note to the teller that said: "This is a robbery. Put all the cash into the plastic bag. No hassles, no prob­lems." 
Roy left the bank with about $1,300. When offi­cers arrived, they found Roy in a Dunkin' Donuts parking lot next to the bank, drinking an iced coffee. Police said he had the note and cash stuffed in his pockets. 
"It appears he didn't make any furtive ges­tures," Sgt. Lloyd Doughty said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a: 
LLI 
< ::1: LLI 
3: 
....I 

~ 
<C 
(,) 


0 

HIGH 78 HIGH 68 HIGH 80 HIGH 74
...I 

LOW 60 LOW 55 LOW 60 LOW 53 
all-around stud." 
IN BRIEF 
Rockefeller Visiting Fellow 
Jennie Burnet will give a lecture .entitled "Sorting and Suffering: Gender, Ethnicity, and Social Classification in Post-Genocide Rwanda" at 12:30 p.m. today in room C103 of the Hesburgh Center for International 
Studies. 
The 2006 Endowed Fall Lecture Series will host a "Special Follow-up Event: Immigration Issues: A Catholic Common Ground Conversation" today, at 3:30 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall. 
Student Comedy Night at Legends will begin at 10 p.m. tonight. NDISMC/HCC student 10 required to enter. 
Executive Vice President of Production for 20th Century Fox Television Jim Sharp will hold a workshop discussion called "Working in the Film and TV Industries" from 10:30 a.m. to noon Friday in the Giovanini Commons of the Mendoza College of Business. 
Syndicated columnist and polit­ical analyst Mark Shields, a Notre Dame alumnus, will deliv­er a presentation on "How Students Can Shape Politics, Government and History" at 11 
a.m. Friday in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
The traditional marching band step-off will be at 4:30 p.m. Friday in front of the Main Building, heading through cam­pus to its practice in the Joyce Center parking lot. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 77 HIGH 78 LOW 60 LOW 54 
Atlanta 81 1 62 Boston 79 I 58 Chicago 82 I 66 Denver 81 I 53 Houston 90 I 70 Los Angeles 76 I 63 Minneapolis 82 I 59 New York 78 166 Philadelphia 80 I 62 Phoenix 1 00 I 79 Seattle 78 I 54 St. Louis 84 I 61 Tampa 91 I 76 Washington 83 I 63 
..---~---------------------~ 
Thursday, September 7, 2006 The Observer + NEWS 
SENATE 
Conunittee chairs share to"Wn ideas 
Shappell discusses  
plans to improve  
community relations  
By MARY KATE MALONE  
News Editor  
Student Senate committee  
chairs provided updates on  
their progress and student  
body president Lizzi Shappell  
discussed her plan to improve  
community relations at a brief  
Senate meeting Wednesday.  
On Friday, Shappell and  
Community Relations commit­ 
tee chair Josh Pasquesi will  
meet with Karen White, mem­ 
ber of the South Bend Common  
Council and chair of its  
Community Relations commit­ 
tee. They will discuss South  
Bend's amended disorderly  
house ordinance -a point of  
contention between Notre  
Dame students and the South  
Bend community. Laun HunVThe Observer  
Former student body presi­Student Body President Uzzi Shappell listens intently as committee  
dent Dave Baron appealed to chairs update the Senate on the progress of their groups.  
the Common Council last  
February, claiming the amend­ Shappell announced last  said they are working on a  
ed ordinance unfairly targeted  spring.  "printer issue" in Siegfried and  
Notre Dame students. Friday's  Weiss said her group is com­ the use of Domer Dollars in  
meeting will be a follow-up to  ing up with a title for the con­ the DeBartolo vending  
that, Shappell said.  ference and working with an  machines.  
Gender Issues committee co­ event coordinator to improve  The committee will continue  
chair Ashley Weiss updated  planning.  to generate ideas for a college  
senators on her committee's  Residence Life committee  town as well, Knapp said.  
progress regarding the upcom­ chair 'Pat Knapp announced a  
ing eating disorders confer­ list of issues his group plans to  Contact Mary Kate Malone at  
ence -a campus-wide event  tackle in the coming weeks. He  mmalone3@nd.edu  


page 3 


PrintLiiTiit debuts at Saint Mary's College 
New system grants students $100-or 1,000-page-quota per acadentic year 
new system is accomplishing its 
By LAURA BAUMGARTNER 

intended goals. 
News Writer 

"I believe it is making more 
students aware of what they 
Saint Mary's students may are printing," she said, "which think twice before using cam­was the goal for using pus printers now that the new PrintLimit." print limit system has taken PrintLimit debuted at the effect this semester. College this semester "after 
Under the new system, all three years of trying to educate students are granted a $100-students about conservation, or 1,000-page -quota per aca­paper waste, and paper costs" demic year, Chief Information without success, Fowlkes said. Officer Keith Fowlkes said. "It became evident that we 
If a student had to imple­reaches her ment a system quota before "It became evident that would hold the end of the students
that we had to
academic accountable for year, Fowlkes implement a system their paper use," said, she that would hold stu-he said. "must pur­Fowlkes said he
dents accountable for 
chase print is personally
their paper use.,
code cards pleased with the from either success of the the campus Keith Fowlkes new system, and bookstore or so far, he said he 
Chief Information Officer
convenience feels the student store." response has 
However, Coordinator of been positive. Student Computing Kathy "Most students won't reach Hausmann said if a student their quota until winter term does not use her entire quota and I'm sure we will hear some for a given year, her remaining displeasure after the holidays," balance will rollover into the he said. following years until she gradu­ates. Contact Laura Baumgartner at 
Hausmann said she feels the lbaurngO 1 @saintrnarys.edu 
RESUME DROP REMINDER 
We can offer you an exciting, fast-paced working environment, a culture of mutual respect and teamwork and the opportunity to play a vital role in our growth. 
RESUME DROP DEADLINE: September 10, 2006 
It starts with you: 

www.ubs.com/graduates 
UBS is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity in its workplace. (M/F/DN) 
*UBS 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 7, 2006 

Pineda 
continued from page 1 
"The ancient practice of wel­coming the stranger and offer­ing hospitality to him is a moral imperative," Pineda said. "We do not have a choice." 
She emphasized the abun­dance of examples in the Old Testament where the exiled people of Israel were immi­grants in need of a helping hand, and later in the New Testament when Jesus Christ asked his followers to treat "the least of these brothers of mine" as ifthey were Son of God. 
Pineda th'en reminded the audience who would be, in this day and age, these least broth­ers of whom the Bible speaks ­and they're not just the refugees and immigrants from Latin America. 
"There are thousands of peo­ple still displaced due to Hurricane Katrina," she said. 
"There are millions of people dying in Ethiopia from starva­tion, and millions more in Pakistan are homeless as a result of the great earthquake," she said. 
She said there are many ways every person or organization can help. 
Pineda recounted a recent controversy at Santa Clara ­some of the benefactors of Santa Clara University threatened to discontinue their funding when they found out that some of the students enrolled and awarded financial aid were actually undocumented immigrants. 

However, Santa Clara did not give in to this pressure and sup­ported its students' right to receive higher education, regardless of a lack of proper documentation, said Pineda. 
She also said that people should not make judgments about the immigrants based on common misconceptions, like the false idea that undocument­ed immigrants don't pay taxes, or the notion that terrorist threats can de reduced by clos­ing the Mexican border. 
"I had always thought that immigration laws should be tighter, and that people needed to get their papers straight before coming here," Saint Mary's junior Stephanie James said after the lecture. "But Dr. Pineda has really made me think about these issues like a Christian instead of a political science student." 
Notre Dame graduate student Leo Guardado also found the lecture inspiring. 
Guardado and his mother fled El Salvador in the 1980s to avoid being drafted during the Civil War that was raging, and though he did not have the appropriate documentation at the time, he received a scholar­ship to complete his undergrad­uate studies at St. Mary's College in California. 
He has since become a legal resident of the United States. 
"If they had dosed their doors to me back then simply because I didn't have the right papers, I probably wouldn't be here today," he said. 
Saint Mary's junior Suzanne Swygart also agreed that spreading the concept of toler­ance and generosity• in this par­ticular issue will only benefit society at large. 
"Cultural diversity is some­thing that we should always welcome and strive to achieve," she said. "I think we need to address this in parishes and Catholic schools throughout the nation." 
The "Bringing Life to Tradition" Lecture Series will continue today with Boston University's. Claire Wolfteich, and her take on women's task of balancing spirituality and the pressure of the workplace. 
On Monday, actress Nancy Murray will wrap up the Lecture Series with an impersonation of Saint Catherine of Siena titled "Voices from the Past, Wisdom for Today, Hope for Tomorrow." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
Bea disability facility dedicated 
Special to The Observer 
The Sara Bea Learning Center for Students with Disabilities was dedicated Aug. 25 at the University of Notre Dame. The center is located in a facility behind the Main Building that also houses a campus satellite of St. Michael's Laundry and a mail service center. 
The Javon and Vita Bea family underwrote the center, which is named in memory of their daughter Sara, who died in June 2003 at the age of 21 after battling multiple disabilities throughout her life. Four of the Beas six chil­dren are graduates or cur­rent undergraduates of Notre Dame. Javon Bea is the chief executive officer and presi­

dent of a Wisconsin-based Catholic hospital system and a member of advisory council for Notre Dame's College of Science. 
Tim Cordes, the valedictori­an of Notre Dame's class of 1998, was among the speak­ers at the dedication. Cordes, who is blind, has completed a medical degree from the University of Wisconsin, where he now is working on a doctorate. 
Scott Howland, the pro­gram coordinator for stu­dents with disabilities, said that of the 200 Notre Dame students registered as dis­abled, most have a learning disability or are diagnosed 
with  Attention  Deficit  
Hyperactivity  Disorder  
(ADHD).  

"The most commonly 
requested accommodation from students is testing accommodations," Howland said. Students need extra time to complete a test; some need a quiet location to help concentrate; some need a reader that enlarges the words on a test or to answer questions on a computer instead of in a blue book. 

Faculty 
continued from page 1 

points. He opened the discus­sion by comparing the boom in technology in the hands of stu­dents from iPods to Blackberries to TiVo -to the dramatic change the library's technology has experienced. 
"Since Ithe late 1990s], thfl technology change has been unbelievable, in terms of how it affects the library," Weber said. "Currently technology and cost are the two factors that are pretty much driving everything that's going on in the library." 
According to Weber, the fac­ulty and students' expectation of the library's digital capabili­ties has increased exponential­ly with the new dependence on instantaneous desktop access to core materials. Electronic accessibility is moving beyond periodicals, and starting to cater to the desire, or even need, for entire collections to be available on-line. 
"There's no denying the fact that for most of the disciplines on the campus, besides Humanities, desktop access is the new standard," he said. "So when it comes to measuring library performance, there is a real emphasis on access speed, ejournals, connections with consortiums and fast search­es." 
Weber also brought up the concern with "deteriorating information literacy" among students. 
"When I ask students in my class to do research, the first thing they do is go to Google," he said. "Where is the regula­tion for those materials?" 
He said the University as a whole must take up the prob­lem of educating these students about research and informa­tion, with support from the library staff. 
The cost of resources is also a major issue, as the price of library materials in general increase at twice the rate of the consumer index, according to Weber. 
"We're in a 'can't-have­everything' environment, and end up having to make difficult choices on how to prioritize materials," he said. 
Younger spoke about these choices, specifically the deci­sions made in regard to how to use the $1.5 million given to the library from the Fiesta Bowl winnings. 
According to Younger, $1 mil­lion of that sum is going to the expansion of the library's hold­ings in history. 
"History is a core discipline, and there is a well-known gap here between the need for resources and what our collec­tion can provide," she said. "Divided up, that $1 million among many disciplines would­n't have made much of a differ­ence for any of their problems, so we chose to focus it." 
She also said $200,000 of the money is going to increasing the holdings in Africana Studies, $150,000 is going to the IEEE digital engineering library and the final $150,000 is going to pay for the back files of the Web of Science cita­tion database. 
"The problems the library has are basically problems able to be solved by money, so it's so fortunate to get $1.5 million," Younger said. 
In general, the presenters were optimistic about where the library was headed. 
"Our [the UCL's] collective assessment of the library sys­tem, is that it is doing well, set­ting dynamic and realistic goals and using foresight to capitalize on the opportunities available," Weber said. 
The next meeting of the Faculty Senate is Oct. 4. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

University ofNotre Dame's Study Abroad Program in 
Angers, France 
"Should I stay or should I go?" 
INFORMATION MEETING 

With Angers' Program Coordinator and returnees of the program 
Thursday, September 7, 2006 7:30PM 229 Hayes Healey 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2006 Academic Year 2007-2008 Fall 2007 -Spring 2008 
r---------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------­


ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 7, 2006 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Japanese royal family welcomes boy 
TOKYO-With shouts of"Banzai," Japanese celebrated the birth Wednesday of the imperial family's first male heir since the 1960s, a development that squelched hopes of reform to allow women on the throne. 
Princess Kiko, wife of Prince Akishino, gave birth to a boy by Caesarean section at a Tokyo hospital. The boy, who will be named Tuesday, is Emperor Akihito's first grandson and is third in the line to the throne, behind brothers Crown Prince Naruhito and Akishino. 
The news was cheered by many Japanese, who maintain an enduring respect for the imperial family more than 60 years after Emperor Hirohito renounced his status as a divinity at the end of World War II. 
Newspapers published extra editions, sup­porters gathered outside the hospital where the 39-year-old Kiko gave birth, and TV net­works ran continuous coverage on the deliv­ery. Fans shouted "Banzai" -"Ten Thousand Years"-outside the imperial palace. 
Israel turns over small border area 
JERUSALEM -The Israeli army turned over a small border area in south Lebanon to Lebanese and foreign troops Thursday, a symbolic move paving the way for U.N. peacekeepers to go into the volatile area. 
The pullback came as an international donors conference in Sweden pledged near­ly $1 billion to help Lebanon rebuild, after the country's prime minister told the gath­ering that Israel's war with Hezbollah wiped out "15 years of postwar development." 
Israel sent up to 30,000 soldiers into Lebanon during the 34-day war, and when the fighting ended they occupied a zone extending about 10 miles north from the border. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Former Illinois Governor sentenced 
CHICAGO -Former Gov. George Ryan, who was acclaimed by capital punishment foes for suspending executions in Illinois and emptying out death row, was sentenced Wednesday to 6 1/2 years behind bars in the corruption scandal that ruined his political career. 
"People of this state expected better, and I let them down," the 72-year-old Ryan said in court before hearing his sentence. 
Federal prosecutors had asked for eight to 10 years in prison. Defense attorneys argued that even 2 1/2 years would deprive Ryan of the last healthy years of his life. 
"Government leaders have an obligation to stand as the example. Mr. Ryan failed to meet that standard,"U.S. District Judge Rebecca R. Pallmeyer said. 
Feds allow 90-d.ay painkiller supply 
WASHINGTON -People taking Oxycontin, codeine and other powerful painkillers for chronic pain could get a 90-day supply, under a proposal Wednesday that would let patients avoid repeated doctor visits to get more than 30-day prescriptions. 
Unless a patient makes another office visit, doctors now cannot refill the schedule II con­trolled substances because they can be abused by addicts. Current law is silent on the question of multiple prescriptions for drugs that are issued by a doctor in a single office visit. 
LOCAL NEWS 
High school graduation rate declines 
INDIANAPOUS -Indiana's high school grad­uation rate has declined over the past decade and now stands at about 71 percent, according to a new Indiana Chamber of Commerce report that looked at several ways of calculating the rate. 
Chamber president Kevin Brinegar said the report, which estimates that more than 20,000 young Hoosiers drop out of high school every year, does not bode well for the state's work force. 
"Dropping out of high school in today's econo­my is the equivalent of an economic death sen­tence," Brinegar said. 
CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERvnrs WJRE SERVKES page 5 
IRAQ 

Country to control armed forces 

U.S. calls move a 'gigantic' step, but bloodshed continues with 36 killed 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -Iraq will take control of its armed forces command on Thursday, a major step on its painful path toward independence and an essential move before international troops can eventually withdraw. 
Despite the progress, there was more blood­shed with at least 36 peo­ple killed across the country in car bombs, mortar attacks and drive­by shootings. Police also found 29 bodies. 
"This is such a huge, significant event that's about to occur tomor­row, U.S. military spokesman Maj. Gen. William Caldwell said of the shift in the Iraqi com­mand. "If you go back and you map out signifi­cant events that have occurred in this govern­ment's formation in tak­ing control of the country, tomorrow is gigantic." 
The highly anticipated ceremony, which will put the prime minister in direct control of the mili­tary, comes five days after it was originally scheduled. The govern­ment abruptly called off the original ceremony at the last minute. 
The U.S. and the Iraqis did not publicly reveal many details of the dis­agreement, other than to say it was more proce­dural than substantive. 
Caldwell said the han­dover was so important, it could not be rushed into. 
"If there's even a ques­tion, if there's even a slightest misunderstand­ing, you would absolutely want to get that thor­oughly resolved," he said. 
Following the fall of Baghdad in April 2003, the U.S. disbanded what was left of the defeated Iraqi army. The U.S.-led coalition has been train­ing and equipping the new Iraqi military, hoping it soon will be in a posi-tion to take over security for the entire country and allow foreign troops to return home. 

But it is still unclear how fast this can be done. 
"It's the prime minis­ter's decision how rapidly he wants to move along with assuming control," Caldwell said. In Thursday's ceremony, the prime minister will take control of Iraq's small naval and air forces, and the 8th Iraqi Army Division. 
"They can move as rap­idly thereafter as they want. I know, conceptual­ly, they've talked about perhaps two divisions a month," Caldwell said. 
The 8th Division was recently engaged in a fierce, 12-hour battle 
with Shiite militia in the southern city of Diwaniyah which left more than 20 soldiers and 50 militiamen dead. 
Days before the battle, the Division's commander, Brig. Gen. Othman al­Farhoud, told The Associated Press that while his forces were capable of controlling security, they still needed support from the U.S.-led coalition. 
He said there was still a need for coalition air sup­port, medical assistance and military storage facil­ities. 
"In my opinion, it will take time," al-Farhoud said when asked how long it would take before his division was com­pletely self-sufficient. 
Politicians have been optimistic. 
Iraqi President Jalal Talabani predicted in a Tuesday meeting with vis­iting British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett that fighting in Iraq will have abated by the end of 2007, and that Iraqi forces will be able to handle any remaining violence. 
Yet the killing contin­ued. 
On Wednesday, two bombs targeting an Iraqi army patrol exploded in northern Baghdad within minutes at a busy inter­section, killing at least nine people and wound­ing 39, police said. Two of the dead and eight of the wounded were Iraqi sol­diers, police said. 

NASA questions Atlantis launch 
Associated Press 

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.-An elec­trical problem forced NASA to post­pone Wednesday's liftoff of the space shuttle Atlantis yet again, and engi­neers faced with a tight launch sched­ule struggled to understand the prob­lem. 
About 11 hours before the scheduled midday launch, engineers discovered that a coolant pump that chills one of the shuttle's three electricity-generat­ing fuel cells was giving an erratic reading. NASA rules say all three fuel cells must be working to launch, and if one fails in orbit, the shuttle must come home promptly. 
NASA officials met for hours during the afternoon to figure out whether they could fix the problem, whether they could safely ignore it, or whether they would have to put the flight on hold for perhaps weeks. 
Managers ruled out a launch attempt on Thursday but said Friday was still a possibility. 
NASA officials wanted more time to analyze the coolant pump that chills one of the shuttle's three electricity­generating fuel cells since "there's something funny going on in that fuel cell," said Wayne Hale, space shuttle program manager. 

Officials said they were going "above and beyond" the agency's safety requirements since flying with the problem didn't violate any rules. 
The space agency's options are to replace the fuel cell or fly Atlantis as is. Changing out the fuel cell would rule out a Friday launch since it would take several weeks. 
There was a 30 percent chance that bad weather would prohibit liftoff at the 11:40 a.m. EDT Friday launch time. 
lf not, the space agency may have to wait until late October -or relax day­light launching rules instituted after the 2003 Columbia accident and try again at the end of September. 
~--­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 7, 2006 
Diversity 
continued from page 1 
term. 
Saracino said Jenkins was pleased with the progress made this year by the Office of Admissions. 
"In conversations, he con­gratulated us on our success­ful first year and wished us continued success," Saracino said. 
This semester, approximate­ly 22 percent .of Notre Dame undergraduates from the United States are from under­represented minority groups. Approximately 0.72 percent are Native American or Alaskan Native, 6.55 percent are Asian or Pacific Islander, 
4.05 percent are black, 9.29 percent are Hispanic and 1.41 percent are not specified. There are 382 international students. 
"It has a distant perception" 
Despite the University's amped-up recruiting efforts ­for the past two years, the percentage of minority stu­dents has hovered around 22 percent -some students see the school's image as a natu­ral. if unavoidable, deterrent. 
Senior Jason Laws said Notre Dame's reputation as a white Catholic university may dissuade black high school students from considering it in their college search. 
"It has a distant perception," Laws said. "It is in the dis­tance because it is a white Catholic university, and when you see Notre Dame adver­tised, you don't see or think of black, unless it's football." 
But Chandra Johnson, direc­tor of Cross-Cultural Ministry and associate director of Campus Ministry, said Notre Dame's Catholic identity and the pursuit of diversity go hand in hand. 
"The University of Notre Dame is indeed Catholic, and 
therefore our search for t r u t h involves exposure to different identities and world views , Johnson said. 
Saracino said Notre Dame's Catholic identity does not in any way nega­tively influ­ence its applicant pool, noting 
"/ believe that [the minority student] experience is very different from the majority student simply because it is more difficult to find your voice in an environment that does not reflect your particular experience., 
Chandra Johnson director Cross-Cultural Ministry 
that many minority Catholics apply to Notre Dame. 
The University does not need to change its image, he said, but it needs to introduce Notre Dame to a larger audi­ence to attract a more diverse applicant pool of talented stu­dents. 
"If we are educating the Catholic leaders of tomorrow, and we are only educating white students, that's not edu­cating the Catholic leaders for tomorrow," Saracino said. 
Senate Multicultural Affairs committee (MAC) chair Destinee DeLemos said she is happy with the increased diversity within the Class of 2010, but warned against increasing the numbers of minority students while ignor­ing the problems these minor­ity students face on campus. 
"I think it's important to 
increase diversity numbers, but it's also important to rec­ognize that increasing diversi­ty numbers is not necessarily conducive to the success of minority students," said DeLemos, who is multi-racial. "There still needs to be other efforts made to improve cam­pus climate." 
Other students, like fresh­man Ted Lee, said the Office of Admissions should continue to increase ethnic diversity while focusing more on increasing socio-economic diversity. 
"Rich kids have such a big advantage over the poorer kids," Lee said. "The poorer kids should be given some advantage, a little bit at least." 
The University recognizes that, said Saracino, who called ethnic and socio-economic diversity "equally important." The Office of Admissions strives to increase both types, he said. 
"Telling the story" 
Just as it is not talent-blind, the admissions process is not race-blind, he said. The University wants to increase numbers of talented students from these groups to more closely mimic the ethnic distri­bution of thA United States. 
Applicants may choose to reveal their race on their Notre Dame application. Most of the applicants decide to complete this part of the form, Saracino said.. The admissions office uses these statistics to develop a profile of the appli­cant pool, and later, of the admitted class. The applicant decides what race he is, not the University. 
"They don't have to prove it," Saracino said. "We trust the applicant student who claims to be whatever race they are." 
Saracino credited this year's spike to the combined efforts of admissions counselors, stu­dent workers, the alumni net­work and the Financial Aid 
office to encourage these stu­dents to apply to the U n i v·e r s i t y and accept its offer of admission. 
"All of those groups really did a great job of telling the story of Notre Dame to students who may not have consid­ered Notre D a m e before," 

Saracino said. " ... We've got­ten to have a critical mass of students here from ethnically underrepresented groups so that they've been a great help to us in following up with admitted students, contacting them to offer assistance." 
Visitation weekends gave students a "clear picture" of Notre Dame-; Saracino said. The Financial Aid office ensured any demonstrated need was met. The Office of Pre-College Programs brought talented black and Hispanic students to the University, introduced them to a college atmosphere and gave them the chance to participate in academic and leadership sem­inars. 
Laws said he still does not think Notre Dame is "on the radar" for many ethnic minor­ity students. But the Office of Admissions is doing a good job of researching ways to attract minority students, he said, and the increase in ethnic diversity is evident. 
"I can say that it seems that there is an improvement," Laws said. "Not a major improvement, but there is a definite difference between my freshman year and now my senior year." 
"We have a long way to go" 
When the Class of 2009 arrived on campus last August, Saracino told The Observer he was "disappoint­ed" in the number of black students. This year's class is composed of 95 black fresh­
men, and Saracino said he is "pleased with it, but not complacent." 
Saracino said he wants to continue drawing black students, as well as other minorities, into the appli­cant pool. lie also wants to attract more international students. Citizens of for­
"It is in the distance because it is a white Catholic university, and when you see Notre Dame advertised, you don't see or think ofblack, unless it's football." 
Jason Laws senior 

eign countries make up 4 per­cent of the freshmen class. 
Next year, he said he would like to see a dass of 5 percent black students, 12 pet·cnnt Hispanic, 8 percent Asian and 1 percent Native American. 
For the past two years, Johnson has led seminars on embracing diversity in fresh­men Contemporary Topics classes. She credits Jenkins with directing this push to promote diversity at thn University, but she cautioned against complacency with the recent progress. 
"I don't want us to stop, thinking we've accomplished our goal," Johnson said. "We have a long way to go." 
Last year, Iris Outlaw, direc­tor of Multicultural Student Programs and Services, hand­ed out bracelets that said "Diversity Matters at Notre Dame." Outlaw is giving them out again this year to fresh­men through the PILLAHS program. She said Notre Dame students should be "global citizens." 
"I think it's important to realize that the community is made up of different facets and that we should all bring gifts to the University that we should celebrate and embrace," Outlaw said. 
While pleased by the fresh­man class diversity statistic, Outlaw said more work must be done to bring diverse back­grounds to the University. 
For freshman Brittany Perrie, Notre Dame is less diverse than her high school in California. She said she sees only a small number of ethnic minorities around cam­pus -not enough to qualify for the official 22 percent fig­ure. 
"''m sure they're here, but I think overall I see more Caucasian people than really anybody else unless you're at a specific ethnic event," Perrie said. 
DeLemos said she and other ethnic minority students at Notre Dame at times feel as though they are not represent­ed within the community and that they are looked upon dif­ferently from white students. 
DeLemos, who is from San Diego, said she is more aware of her minority background when she is at Notre Dame than when she is at home. 
"Being a minority has a completely different concept when you come to Notre Dame, because when you are in a diverse atmosphere, being a minority isn't rele­vant," she said. 
When Laws ran for student body president last year, he included in his platform the idea for a black student union to help black students discov­er ways to assume leadership positions at the University. 
"It would be just another group that would help organ­ize the black community, as far as providing a structure that can help us to have a stronger sense of empower­
ment, to unite our voice," said Laws, who still hopes to implement the union. 
The goal of the union ­as well as the creation of MAC -is to prevent the minority stu­dent voice from being marginalized, Laws said. 
While he docs sec an 
improvement in thn diversity of the student body since his freshman year, Laws said problems of racial stereotyp­ing and white privilege still persist. 
"There are times when my opinion in a class might be dismissed, or I might give an answer and it's not given a credible amount of considera­tion and thrm another student will say the same thing, and then, you know, there's the answer," hn said. 
From her interaction with students, Johnson said she has seen minority students facn difficulties at Notre Dame dun to their race and their separation from the white majority. 
"I believe that Ithe minority student! experience is very different from the majority student simply because it is more difficult to find your voice in an environment that does not reflect your particu­lar experience," she said. 
But for Saracino, this year is a step in the right direction. 
"''m excited by the current freshman class and what next year's class will be, and what thn overall community will be as a result of it," Saracino said. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

Dillon 
continued from page 1 
gral form of preparation lies in a special Dillon Hall tradition. 
"Most importantly, we pre­pare for the pep rally by find­ing our Teen Wolf, Dillon's unofficial mascot," he said. 
While freshmen do not have the opportunity to be cast in the skits, two have been select­ed from a group of 15-20 will­ing students to don the cos­tume, becoming the face of Dillon Hall and the voice of the pep rally. 
"[The teen wolves] don a werewolf costume and run around campus, catching peo­ple's attention in anyway they can," Hellmuth said. While an invitation by a wolf may be enough in itself to entice some to check out the pep rally, the prospect of a hilarious show and of special guest appearances should draw others, Hellmuth said. 
"It helps the campus to kick off the football season with guest speakers to pump the crowd up," he said. "It also provides great entertainment with a production that is full of witty, satirical humor that everyone will enjoy." 
In satirizing campus life, the Dillon Pep Hally runs the risk -like the annual February comedy show the Keenan Revue -of facing scrutiny from offended members of the campus community. But organ­izers urge students to remem­ber the humor is all in good fun. 
"We do a great job of poking fun at certain things at Notre Dame," co-organizer Rob Arseniadis said. ''I'm sure there have been several ques­tionable jokes in the past, but we try not to target specific individuals or group, but rather poke fun about certain stereotypes on campus." 
While tradition prevents organizers from revealing guest speakers, last year's pep rally featured both Charlie Weis and Brady Quinn. Arseniadis said this year's choices won't students down. 
"We have some terrific sur­prises before and during the show," Arseniadis said. "The show's success is always tough to repeat, but I think we've done it again this year." 
Hellmuth especially urged freshmen to attend so they can "finally experience what true dorm spirit is" in attending the first signature dorm event of the year. 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 
ATHLETIC TRAINING & SPORTS MEDICINE 
There will be a meeting for any Notre Dame freshman students interested in the student athletic training program. 
The meeting will be held on Monday, September 11th, at 4:15p.m. in the Joyce Center Athletic Training Room. 
For more information please visit our website www.nd.edu/-ndsat06/ 
Thursday, September 7, 2006 



MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

10,447.37 +0.00
}ones 
dh 

(jp: Same: : Composite Volume 1,449 180 1,641,759,350 
AMEX 1.680.04 -1.31 NASDAQ 2,141.07 -6.83 NYSE 7,531.13 -12.72 S&PSOO 1,218.02 -3.57 NIKKEI(Tokyo) I 2, 634.88 +0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 5,337.80 +11.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 (QQQQ) -0.39 -0.15 38.77 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.66 -0.18 27.02 INTEL CP (INTC) +0.08 +0.02 25.28 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +0.40 +0.07 17.72 ORACLE CORP(ORCL) +0.60 +0.08 13.39 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.00 +0.00 42.92 10-YEAR NOTE +0.00 +0.00 40.29 5-YEARNOTE +0.00 +0.00 38.39 3-MONTH BILL +0.00 +0.00 33.77 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.90 67.57 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.00 448.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.30 81.08 
Excha Rates 

YEN lb9.140C EURO 0.7974 POUND 0.5422 CANADIAN$ 1.189E 
IN BRIEF Silver futures surge to 3-month high 
SAN FRANCISCO -Hewlett-Packard Co. Chairwoman Patricia Dunn is under scrutiny from business and ethics experts after she oversaw an invasive and possibly illegal effort to snoop into the home phone calls of fellow HP board members. 
Dunn. a former freelance journalist who has become one of the most powerful women in corporate America, oversaw the ouster of former liP CEO Carly Fiorina in February 2005 and the hiring of Mark Hurd as her successor. Now analysts say she may be the next one to leave. 
"When you start spying on your own board, you darn well better have probable cause," said Peter Morici, professor at the Professor Robert H. Smith School of Business at the University of Maryland. "If the chairman thinks this is the way business ought to be conducted, maybe it's time for her to take a sabbatical. It's arrogant and inappropriate." Gold followed, helped by both silver and a sharp gain in copper, analysts said. Continuing tension over Iran's nuclear pro­gram was another factor underpinning pre­cious metals. 
Small companies overlook insurance 
NEW YORK -Although most small busi­ness owners know they need property and casualty insurance for their premises, many don't realize they need specialized insurance coverage to limit their losses from a disas­ter. 
Perhaps the biggest omission owners make when buying a commercial policy is business interruption insurance. 
"They fail to think about what would hap­pen if their business couldn't open again," said Loretta Worters, vice president for com­munications of the Insurance Information Institute, a New York-based trade group. 
Business interruption insurance covers profits that are lost and expenses that con­tinue to be incurred when a company is forced to shut down by a disaster, or even by an event such as an extended power outage. Policies typically have a 48-hour waiting period before coverage starts, but, depend­ing on how much coverage a business buys, interruptions up to 360 days can be covered. 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Murray named as Ford's CEO 
Founder's great-grandson decides company needs more leadership than he can give 
Associated Press 

DEARBORN, Mich.-Wilen Bill Ford decided that his family's company needed more leadership than he could offer, he started look­ing for someone who had successfully fixed a large but troubled manufacturing company. 
lie wasn't sure there was 
such a person, but as he 
asked around in and out of 
the auto industry, one name 
kept popping up: Alan 
Mulally, executive vice presi­
dent of the aerospace com­
pany Boeing. 

But Mulally, 61, who is credited with straightening BoHing Co.'s flight path in the dark days after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, was unwimng to leave a company he had served for 37 years. 
"f resisted," Mulally said at a Tuesday news conference at Ford Motor Co.'s world headquarters in Dearborn. 
Eventually, though, the 49­year-old Bill Ford prevailed, convinced that Mulally had the right experience to lead Ford's young management team through the troubled and uncertain times that lie ahead. 
On Tuesday, Bill Ford introduced Muially as the new president and chief executive officer of the nation's No. 2 automaker. Mulally will work in transi­tion between the two compa­nies through September and Mulally as president of the planes to only four, and those that ''I'm wearing too many hopes to be fully on the job in commercial airplanes unit. four do the same job more hats." Dearborn by the beginning Carson, 60, had been vice efficiently than the 15 did. I le began courting Mulally of October. president of sales for the Mulally, who drives a in July, eventually winning 
Ford shares rose 16 cents, Seattle-based division and is Lexus, said he took the job him over. or 1. 9 percent, to close at a 34-year Boeing veteran. partly because there are "In this environment, it $8.55 Wednesday on the While acknowledging he is people who believe the U.S. was clear to me I needed New York Stock Exchange. not an auto authority, can't compete with the rest somebody with a skill set Its shares have traded in a Mulally said: ''I'm certainly a of the world in manufactur­who can take us further," he 52-week range of $6.06 to product designer and I care ing. said. "I think everybody's $10.20. deeply about having a viable "I personally think we skill set doesn't fit every era 
Mulally was widely praised business." absolutely can if we pull and every time. When I for being a key architect of He said Ford and Boeing together," Mulally said. looked at what we need now, the resurgence of Boeing's have much in common, pro­Bill Ford, the great-grand­it was very apparent to me commercial airplanes unit ducing products that need son of company founder that I wanted somebody, if over the past couple of years. long lead times for develop­Henry Ford, struggled for that person existed, who had He was a top candidate for ment. Both industries, he five years to steer the com­major turnaround experi­the Boeing CEO job last year, said, are heavily affected by pany toward financial stabili­ence in an industrial compa­but the company went out­fuel prices and foreign com­ty. ny." side to select aerospace vet­petition. He candidly admitted that Bill Ford, who took control eran Jim McNerney, then the But he said during the past he couldn't handle all the of the company in 2001, 3M Co. chief executive. 15 years at Boeing, the com­challenges that now face his decided to remain on as 
Boeing on Tuesday named pany was able to trim its 103-year-old company. He executive chairman to con­Scott Carson to replace product line from 14 air-told his board in the spring tinue helping with strategy. 

Mutual fund argument continues 
the consulting firm Management chair. Associated Press Practice Inc., which specializes in Those in favor of the rule say mutual fund governance. "Serious more independent boards will nego­
NEW YORK -The two-year tussle people believe that this is the begin­tiate lower management fees. over a regulation requiring that ning of separating the regular chief "The data overwhelmingly show mutual fund chairmen be independ­executive from the chairman." that the more that managers as a ent has pitted The Vanguard Group, Arne H. Carlson, former governor group take, the less than fund Inc. against John C. Bogle, its of Minnesota and now the independ­shareholders as a group make," said founder. It's thrown the former gov­ent chair of RiverSource Funds, John C. Bogle, founder of The ernor of Minnesota against the son which were recently spun off from Vanguard Group, Inc. and its former of a Supreme Court justice. the American Express Co., agrees. chief executive officer. 
On its face, whatss at stake is the "Part of this is a corporate CEO fear Those opposed say it would "cre­composition of the boards of mutual that their control will be placed in ate additional bureaucracy for fund funds. But the hope in some quar­jeopardy." advisers, thereby stifling the cre­ters and the fear in others is that if The proposed rule by the ation of new fund offerings for the regulation is enacted it will have Securities and Exc;hange investors," as lawyer Samuel E. implications for the governance of Commission, first introduced in Whitley wrote in comments to the all public companies. 2004, would require that 75 percent SEC. Others add that there is no 
"Call it the rub-off effect," said C. of mutual fund boards be independ­empirical evidence the new rules Meyrick Payne, a senior partner at ent and work under an independent would do any good. 
-------------------------------~--~~-----~---------------------, 
page 8 
Xerox 
continued from page 1 
new home in the Student Center, Rodriguez said. 
She also said she hopes the changes being made to the College's printing servic­es will "establish an opera­tion that will be user-friendly and more accessible to stu­dents who choose to use it." 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaumgO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
DENMARK 
Bo111b cherrricals found 
Associated Press 
ODENSE -Danish author­ities found chemicals that could be used to make bombs when they raided an immigrant neighborhood and arrested terror suspects, the country's top intelligence official said Wednesday. 
A Danish court jailed two of the men arrested Tuesday on preliminary terror charges, but said five others must be released within days unless investigators submit stronger evidence against them. 
Police seized chemicals, computers, telephones and CO-ROMs during the sting in Odense, 100 miles west of Copenhagen, said Troels Oerting Joergensen, the Danish intelligence agency's operative boss. 
The Observer + NEWS Thursday, September 7, 2006 
New-parking lot, rules appear at College 
By KATIE KOHLER 
News Writer 
In addition to planned scenery changes like a new academic building and a hotel next to Saint Mary's, a new parking lot has popped up this year -and with it, some new parking rules. 
The new lot, designed exclu­sively for off-campus students, has been constructed near Opus Hall and is a close walk to Madeleva and the Science Hall. 
Saint Mary's security has also placed restrictions on faculty and commuting students' park­ing as well as dorm-front park­ing. This year, students will not be permitted to park in front of residence halls for an extended period of time. Yellow restric­tion lines have been added in front of Le Mans and Holy Cross Hall to prevent vacant vehicles and excess traflic. 
Dan Woods, director of Security at Saint Mary's, said the most dramatic changes to parking pertain to preparing for the upcoming con­struction. 
adapting ·to the parking changes, Woods said, since cita­tions and towing are not exceed­ing last year's numbers. Woods said he does not expect parking violations to increase from last year. 
"The amount of tickets so far appears to be about the same," he said. 
Junior Becca Hosswurm, who moved off campus this year, said she is pleased with the parking aceommodations for eommuting students. 
"While it may be closer for ofT­campus students to park in the last three rows of the Science Hall lot, I find it just as easy to use the new lot," she said. "And who can't use a little exercise?" 
As for towing, only one inci­dent has been reported this year. 
Junior Carly Hundborg's vehi­cle was towed while she was attending daily Mass at the Church of Loretto Aug. 31. 
She attended daily Mass about three times a week for years 
and said this is the 
first time she 
Minor changes "We will soon be in experienced prob­in where faculty full swing with lems with parking. and commuting "I am an off­
enforcement. " 
students can park campus student are being dealt and I just want to with in an incre­Dan Woods go to daily Mass mental manner. Director of Security without getting my Security is using car taken away
Saint Mary's 
warnings and temporary signs to acclimate students and faculty to the changes. 
"Parking enforcement began right after school started. There has been some small confusion with the lots, but we have been giving the commuters extra chances," Woods said -mean­ing most of the "tickets" have been warnings. 
"We will soon be in full swing with enforcement," he said. 
However, students seem to be 
and charged," Hundborg said. Woods said Rundborg should have known better. 
"Most returning students with vehicles know the policy and abide by the parking regula­tions," he said. 
Woods anticipates small prob­lems in the near future with parking and traffic flow. The new academic building and hotel, set to break ground in the southwest and northeast cor­ners of campus, respectively, 

MARK SHIELDS 
Syndicated Columnist and Political Analyst, PBS' The NewsHour With Jim Lehrer 
Friday, September 8, 2006 
11:00 a.m. 
Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium 
Sponsored by: 
THE !Y'ASHINGTON PROGRAAf, 
the Departments of Sociology, Political Science, American Studies, and History, the John W. Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics, and Democracy, the Hesburgh Program in Public Service, the Program in American Democracy, and the Center for Social Concerns 
How Students Can Shape Politics, Government, and History 
A presentation by 

may cause minor changes. Lynn Kachmarik is involved with 
"Things may change a bit at football parking at Saint Mary's the Douglas Hoad intersection for home games. She said that with Madeleva Drive, but we are each varsity athletic team is not expecting normal day-to-day responsible for organizing park­traflic on campus to be impact­ing for a home game this sea­ed that much," he said. son. 
Although parking on campus "I think it will be very organ­only causes minor confusion ized this weekend and well­and violations, the Irish home run," Kachmarik said. opener against Penn State brings an influx of would-be Contact Katie Kohler at parkers. Director of Athletics kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Thursday, September 7, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Bush ad1nits to~secret CIA operated prisons 
14 terrorist suspects transferred over to Guantanamo for trial 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Bush on Wednesday acknowl­edged for the first time that the CIA runs secret prisons over­seas and said tough interroga­tion forced terrorist leaders to reveal plots to attack the United States and its allies. 
Bush said 14 suspects ­including the mastermind of the Sept. 11 attacks and architects of the 2000 bombing of the USS Cole and the U.S. Embassy bombings in Kenya and Tanzania -had been turned over to the Defense Department and moved to the U.S. detention center at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, for trial. 
Bush said the CIA program "has helped us to take potential mass murderers off the streets before they were able to kill." Releasing information declassi­fied just hours earlier, Bush said the capture of one terrorist just months after the Sept. 11 attacks had led to the capture of another and then another, and had revealed planning for attacks using air­
Still, Bush said that "having a CIA program for questioning terrorists will continue to be crucial to getting lifesaving information." 
Some Democrats and human rights groups have said the CIA's secret prison system did not allow monitoring for abuses and they hoped that it would be shut down. 
The president declined to dis­close the location or details of the detainees' confinement, or the interrogation techniques. 
I cannot describe the specific methods used -I think you understand why," Bush said in the East Room where families of some of those who died in the Sept. 11 attacks gathered to hear his speech. 
"If I did, it would help the ter­rorists learn how to resist ques­tioning, and to keep informa­tion from us that we need to prevent new attacks on our country. But I can say the pro­cedures were tough, and they were safe, and lawful and nec­essary." 
Bush insisted that the detainees were not tortured. 
"I want to be absolutely clear with our people, and the world: The United States does not tor­ture," Bush said. "It's against our laws, and it's against our values. I have not 
planes, car authorized
"Were it not for this program, 
bombs and it, and I 
our intelligence community 
anthrax. will not 
Nearing believes that al-Qaida and its authorize the fifth it."
allies would have succeeded in 
anniver­B u s h
launching another attack 
sary of said the Sept. 11, against the American informa­B u s h tion from
homeland." 
pressed terrorists Congress in CIA 
to quickly George W. Bush custody p a s s President has played adminis­United States of America a role in 
tration­drafted legislation authorizing the use of military commissions for tri­als of terror suspects. Legislation is needed because the Supreme Court in June said the administration's plan for trying detainees in military tri­bunals violated U.S. and inter­national law. 
"These are dangerous men with unparalleled knowledge about terrorist networks and their plans for new attacks," Bush said, defending the CIA program he authorized after the Sept. 11 attacks. "The secu­rity of our nation and the lives of our citizens depend on our ability to learn what these ter­rorists know." 
The president's speech, his third in a recent series about the war on terror, gave him an opportunity to shore up his administration's credentials on national security two months before congressional elections at a time when Americans are growing weary of the war in Iraq. 
Democrats, hoping to make the elections a referendum on Bush's policies in Iraq and the war on terror, urged anew that Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld be made to step down. 
With the transfer of the 14 men to Guantanamo, there cur­rently are no detainees being held by the CIA, Bush said. A senior administration official said the CIA had detained fewer than 100 suspected terrorists in the history of the program. 
the cap­

ture or questioning of nearly every sen­ior al-Qaida member or associ­ate detained by the U.S. and its allies since the program began. 
He said they include Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the accused Sept. 11 mastermind, as well as Ramzi Binalshibh, an alleged would-be 9/11 hijacker, and Abu Zubaydah, who was believed to be a link between Osama bin Laden and many al­Qaida cells. 
"Were it not for this program, our intelligence community believes that al-Qaida and its allies would have succeeded in launching another attack against the American home­land," Bush said. 
He said interrogators have succeeded in getting informa­tion that has helped make photo identifications, pinpoint terrorist hiding places, provide ways to make sense of docu­ments, identify voice recordings and understand the meaning of terrorist communications, al­Qaida's travel routes and hiding places, 
The administration had refused until now to acknowl­edge the existence of CIA pris­ons. Bush said he was going public because the United States has largely completed questioning the suspects, and also because the CIA program had been jeopardized by the Supreme Court ruling. 
Bush also laid out his propos­al for how trials for detainees should be conducted, a plan he says ensures fairness. 
Met to present 6 live shows 
Opera House plans Internet broadcasts in U.S., Canada, Europe 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK The Metropolitan Opera is vastly expanding its broadcast pres­ence, transmitting six live per­formances to movie theaters in North America and Europe this season and broadcasting more than 100 live over the Internet or on digital radio. 
As part of the company's groundbreaking attempt to expand its audience, it announced Wednesday that the six video broadcasts will be followed by telecasts on PBS following 30-day win­dows. DVD and CD releases Levine. 
Other productions scheduled for simulcast are Bellini's "I Puritani" starring soprano Ann Netrebko [Jan. 6]; the world premiere production of Tan Dun's "The First Emperor," with Placido Domingo in the title role IJan. 13]; Tchaikovsky's "Eugene Onegin" starring Henee Fleming and Dmitri Hvorostovsky and conducted by Valerie Gergiev [Feb. 24]; a new production of Hossini's "II Barbiere di Siviglia" with Juan D i e g o Florez a n d each airing. Under the new agreements, Gelb said there will be a small upfront pay­ment and a continuation of the fee paid for the Saturday radio broadcasts that start each December and run until the spring. In exchange, the Met will have unlimited use of the electronic product and will share any profits. 

Since 2001, just two Met telecasts have aired on PBS and three productions that had been video recorded were not even aired. Gelb said the agreement would cut the cost of 
could follow. The Met also will Dian a "We're already an aging art televising make many of its historical Damrau an opera,
form and we now have to 
broadcasts available on the [March which had
make sure we are undertaking
Internet, some for free but 24]; and been more most for a fee. the new initiatives like this that will than $1 "We're already an aging art produc­million, by
create audience 
form and we now have to tion of more than
development ... " 
make sure we are undertak­Puccini's 50 per­ing initiatives like this that I l cent. will create audience develop­Trittico," Peter Gelb E v e n ment, audience education and conduct­A I a n
General Manager
connect the Met generally ed by Gordon,
Metropolitan Opera 
AGMA's 
executive 

director, called the prior costs "impos­sibly prohibitive." 
"There was no money com­ing in from media. To give up an illusory contract that had a lot of money doesn't mean anything if nobody's making any money," he said. "Peter Gelb I guess has a vision that you have to expand the audi­ence base any way you can to keep the Met vibrant. His ideas about exploitation of media are the centerpiece of his plan. His pitch to the unions was, 'It's the only way to survive,' and our members bought into that." 
with its local, national and global fan base in a way that has not been possible previ­ously," said Peter Gelb, who took over from Joseph Volpe as the Met's general manager on Aug. 1. 
Gelb's moves are part of his shakeup at the Met, where 77 percent of available tickets were sold last season, down from 93 percent in 1999­2000. 
The high-definition satellite simulcasts to hundreds of movie theaters will begin Dec. 30 with the English-language adaptation of Julie Taymor's production of Mozart's "The Magic Flute," under the baton of Music Director James Levine a n d directed by Jack O'Brien [April 28]. 
Gelb said the likely ticket price in the United States would be $16-$18. 
In order to launch these ini­tiatives, Gelb and Volpe nego­tiated agreements with the American Guild of Musical Artists, which represents the singers, chorus and ballet; Local 802 of the Associated Musicians of Greater New York; and Local One of the Theatrical Stage Employees Union. 
In the past, the Met paid an upfront fee for each broadcast plus additional money for 


University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Andy Magee, amagee@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800; or Fr. Dick Warner, CSC, at 1-9704 
University Counseling Center 
(lndividual.counseling) Contact Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at: 

http://www.corecouncH.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, September 7, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
Terrorism can be born at home 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CoNTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
()74) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(57 4) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th< ~(USPS 599 2-4000) ;, puhliwd Mornby dunugh F<iday <=pt during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $100 for one academic yen; $55 .fur one s:em~"SJ:er_ 
The Obsc:rvcr is published ac POSTMASTER 024 South Dining HaU Send address oorrections to: Notte Dame, IN 46556-0n9 The Observer Periodical posage paid at Notte Dame: P.O, Bo, 779 and additional mWing offiC¢5. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nom Dame, lN 46556-0n9 
The O~rvcr is .a member ofthe Associated Press. All-ttpnidua-ion righu are reserved. 
Last week, the World Knights of the Ku Klux Klan celebrated Labor Day early by exercising their constitutional right to free speech and holding a rally in Gettysburg National Park. They kicked things off in a light rain by shouting "White power!" and later moved on to lam­basting such time­honored targets as blacks, Jews, gays and Latinos. Supposedly, the main purpose of the event was to call for the return of U.S. troops from Iraq ­in order to carry out the ingenious plan of stopping immigration by placing them as patrol units along the Mexican border. 
Who knew the Klan were such paci­fists? You could have fooled me. The wool must have been pulled over my eyes when I went to the World Knights' Web site (one of many sites associated with the KKK). The banner on the site features several armed soldiers in bat­tle gear. A manifesto outlines dreams of eventually exterminating every non­white ethnicity on the face of the plan­et. The site is adorned with other won­derful little trinkets, such as gunshot sound effects every time you highlight a link. How creative. 
Disgusted sarcasm aside, this is the kind of thing that makes me want to throw up or hand in my resignation from the human race. To see this kind of xenophobic behavior-to think that this is the furthest we've come-is a surefire way to stir up misanthropic feelings. Of course, not everyone reacts this way. Dismissing KKK rallies as outlets for lunatics or wackos is the response of choice. These idiots will fade away ... eventually. 

James Dechant 
ForegoneConclusion 
Funny thing is, that's what they said 40 years ago, in the wake of the civil rights movement. That's what they said 40 years before that, during some of the Klan's widespread anti-Catholic activities and another 60 years earlier following the Civil War. The group and its message refuse to slowly die or burn out. 
These guys are still around, though today it seems a broad assortment of groups claim the Klan name. They are a real force that represents the worst part of America, a part it has not been able to shake. 
Forget affirmative action and ethnic insensitivity; this is an organized, char­tered hate group, fostered right here on American soiL They're not hinting at underlying prejudices and discrimi­natory feelings; they're coming right out and saying them. Yet the continued activity of the Klan is only the most explicit indication of a far wider-reach­ing problem in the United States. The root cause rests deeper in the American psyche. 
The fact is, the Klan is a terrorist organization that is fed by widespread racism and extreme nationalism. This combination breeds exactly the sort of ideologies that motivate people to hijack public transportation, bomb churches and murder innocent civil­ians. Sound familiar to anything we hear about in other parts of the world? This is not the appropriate place to go into whether we should be concerned with hunting terrorists abroad (hey, give me a break, I've only got 800 words to work with). But the recipe for hatred and terrorism -people who really "hate freedom"-is found right here at home. 
And America doesn't want to admit that. America hates to admit that any­thing raised and nurtured under its own roof could ever escalate into the kind of violence we see and hear about in the news every day, abroad. We would love to think that we're too civi­lized, too egalitarian, too rich, too comfortable and too well protected by our laws and our Constitution to ever give birth to the destructive hatreds that we see in other parts of the world. 

Both the Klan and the Islamic terror­ists we are hunting claim to be backed by their respective religions, while in reality both make mockeries of what their religions stand for. The only thing holding back the Klan from the same kind of crusade is a lack of leadership. Come to think of it, it may be a good thing the Klan sees all non-white races the same, because they would other­wise gladly join forces with radical Islamic fundamentalists to eliminate the "Zionist state" of Israel. 
It is the darkest sense of poetic irony that the Klan rallied on the battle­ground of an American war kindled in large part by widespread racism. Abraham Lincoln may have been sad­dened to learn we would still be strug­gling from the same national maladies for decades and decades to come. "It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicat­ed here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced," he said in his famous address. What would Honest Abe think if he could see that hallowed ground today? There is precious little dedica­tion to advancing the moral mission of this country. Lincoln was concerned with holding the fragile country togeth­er. Perhaps today we should be con­cerned with not letting it become the very thing we hate. 
James Dechant is a junior English and theology major. Questions. com­ments and rude remarks can be sent to jdechant@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Facebook update means increased visibility 
I woke up a few days ago to fmd that, much to my horror, all my recent doings on the Facebook were being looked at by all my friends. Without asking, they all could all.see my relationship status, whose walls I had been commenting on, which shady-looking friends I had recently made and all of my personal photos (some of which I'd rather not have the entire campus, my parents and my future employers seeing). I found, to my delight, that I could see similar details for my friends. The next day I woke up to fmd that the Facebook had streamlined this entire stalking process for me. 
The new layout showed me some emerging trends in Facebook activity, including changing one's status to "is being creeped out by the new Facebook!" 
and joining groups such as "Facebook is friggin creepy now" or "STOP THE STALKERS." Several friends added Facebook notes about the new layout, and they all seem to hate it. 
I like the new Facebook layout. 
Mark Zuckerman's team did nothing to add creepier, more personal content to the site. We have nobody to blame for the uncomfortable feeling we get from this new layout but ourselves. The calming white and blue color scheme of the Facebook doesn't make the information we post to it any less vulnerable. The new Face book layout reminds us just how much information we're giving out to people who really don't know us very well at alL It doesn't show anything that any self-repecting Facebook stalker, par­ent, administrator or employer couldn't figure out given half an hour. While before we could be lulled into making the most thorough profiles imaginable, we fmally all realize the value of our privacy. 

Kudos to Facebook. This latest stunt is sure to cost them plenty of traffic, but it's the right thing to do. It forces us to real­ize just how personal and important to us the information we give out is. 
That being said, the new home page layout is ugly as sin. 
John Gorski is a Junior in Computer Engineering, and thanks to the Facebook, now knows everything about you. 
John Gorski junior Stanford Hall Sept. 6 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Eileen Duffy Eric Retter Maureen Mullen Kyle Cassily What is the biggest deterrent to Katie McDonnell Tim Kaiser living off campus? Viewpoint Scene Alyssa Erin McGinn 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Brauweiler 

at www.ndsmcobserver.com
Graphics Jeff Albert 
S·bmit ci Let:t' ._ ', ,•...
.. u., __ ,...... , a .....<,, er :to the Editor at 
!www.ndsmcobserver.cam. . . ./
) . :· 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"One of the most adventurous things left us is to go to bed. For no one can lay a hand on our dreams." 
E. V. Lucas author 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, September 7, 2006 page 11 
Always time for a 'do-over' 
Of the hundreds of hazy memories I have from my own Freshmen Orientation weekend (which was, ahem, more than 20 years ago), one still stands out for me. At one of the many meetings for fresh­men, our rector in 
Kate Barrett
Farley, Sister Jean Lenz, kept telling us, 
FaithPoint 
"Don't drink the punch." She talked a little more about other things, and then she'd say, "And really, don't drink the punch!" Then she introduced all the RAs, and slipped in a quick mention of not drinking the punch. 'The punch" was usually created in a big bowl or a bucket in guys' dorms by mix­ing Hawaiian Punch or Hi-C and Everclear. Unfortunately for those ­mostly freshmen women, it seems -who drank it out of big cups, it tasted just like, well, plain old punch. Of course, after being told 25 times not to drink the punch, my roommates and I from my quad in Farley went over to Holy Cross Hall, and one of my quad-mates drank quite a quantity of punch. Now that quad was such a horrible room that it no longer exists in Farley, and Holy Cross was such an old hall that it no longer exists on campus (though a mournful lit­tle gravestone notes its former site along the side of St. Mary's lake), but people often still lose their bearings in one way or another soon after they arrive at Notre Dame. 
Perhaps you heard before you came here, "Oh, college is a chance for new beginnings! It's a fresh start! Make the most of it!" All of which is true. So, given the opportunity for a fresh start, in a new place, with new friends, new classes, where no one knows that in high school you were a geek, or a party animal, or a soccer player, or the valedictorian or whatever ... have you made the most of it? Certainly none of us came here think­ing, ''I'm so excited to go to Notre Dame. I can start out my career here as a really heavy drinker!" or, "Can't wait 'til college so I can sleep in and miss my 8:00 class!" or, "I bet I'll meet some gliys down the hall and spend all my time playing video games with them instead of getting involved on campus!" But have we found ourselves in a place we never expected to be and can't quite figure out how we got there? 
I myself never touched the punch; I would have been petrified to so much as sip it. I made plenty of other mistakes while I was here, however, and mostly because I forgot. I think we often lose our bearings in a new place because we for­get-we forget the best of what we've learned along the way, in our old places, where people knew exactly who we were and probably exactly what we needed to hear. If you're not feeling too comfortable with your "new" self right now, go back and remember the best of the best; think of the best mentor you've had-in your family, at your church, in your school, on a sports team -and then think of the best advice that person gave you. Remember all you've learned from the people who have known you best in life, and keep that close to your heart. 
Fresh starts are tougher than adver­tised. They're a bit more work than we'd like to admit; we really have to pray hard and think and examine who we want to be. We're not always willing to make the time and to take the mental energy required to do so, and lots of distractions eat away at our days and nights. However, even if the start of this year doesn't feel so fresh to you any more, there's always time for a "do-over." Make your own new way; be the person you can be proud to be; never forget what the people you admire most have taught you. Notre Dame can truly be a place where you will feel most like the person God created you to be, not the least bit lost at all and ready to navigate any unfamiliar territory that comes your way. 
Kate Barrett is the Director of Resources & Special Projects for Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbar­rett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
CLAP calls for fair vvages 
It seems that a lot of the sentiment on this campus against a living wage has been raised in the best interest of workers. Campus Labor Action Project (CLAP) also has the best inter­est of workers in mind and in heart, and based on a number of meticulous studies, it finds only benefits from the living wage. With regard to Jonathan Klingler's column ("Beyond the living wage," Sept. 5), CLAP maintains its stance that a living wage based on the Federal Benefits line will be benefi­cial to Notre Dame's workers. First, the methodology of the $12.10 has been called into question on the basis that fami­lies of four often have other sources of income. Regardless, the federal government, acknowledging that many workers have such a situation, has decided that $12.10 with benefits is the maximum a worker can make and still be food stamp eligible. Is it acceptable to be paying workers wages below this standard, or is it Notre Dame's responsibilty to ensure that full time workers are able to meet their basic needs? 
As for the critique on the living wage policy in general, let us first say it is presumptuous and unfounded to say that the workforce will be "gentrified" and will lead to fewer jobs for low-income workers. In fact, the labor market is not so sensi­tive to changes in wages, as noted in a study by the Economic Policy Institute: "A recent EPI study of the effects of the 1996-97 minimum wage increase, for example, found no evi­dence of job loss among teenagers and adult workers with less than a high-school education (two groups of workers that typically have lower skill levels)." However, the EPI notes, no studies have provided evidence to the contrary. As for the idea that the job market would shrink and create unemployment, studies conducted on Boston's and on Baltimore's living wage ordinances "have found no evidence of diminished employment" (Thompson and Chapman, 2006). Lastly, the living wage has proven to help companies and communities because it creates less turnover within jobs and thus fosters productivity. 
As an alternative solution, the columnist calls for computer and business classe.s for the employees, in order to increase their skills and make them eligible for a better-paying job. In fact, Notre Dame already offers some educational courses for its employees, and for this, CLAP gratefully applauds the University. However, this training for a better job is not a solution to the low wages we pay, because once a worker moves on, another person will fill her/his spot at Notre Dame and earn the low wages. 
Ultimately, the columnist notes that, "the University should revisit its pay scale and investigate methods of ensuring that all employees of the University are able to have fair wages determined on an individual basis." CLAP fully agrees with this statement. Wages for lower paid workers have been falling for several decades and we believe it is time to stop this race to the bottom with the implementation of the higher standard of a living wage. Since its inaugural assembly last September, CLAP has called for a task force of workers, stu­dents, faculty and administration to examine this issue. We still stand by this demand and will not rest until just policies are rendered. 
Campus Labor Action Project Sept. 6 
Rock star? 
I have read (in other places) of the "rock star" treatment Brady Quinn gets on campus. First, is that accurate or a vast exaggeration? 
If it is true, is any conversation being held among students about what ought to be the stu­dent-athlete culture at Notre Dame? 
If the football team continues to improve, as we all hope it will, students can expect more and more stars on campus. But will they not still be Notre Dame students first? And should they not be treated first as Notre Dame students? 
As a track star from track country (Oregon), I appreciated the support I received from students when I was at Notre Dame. I have great memories. But guys like John Huarte and Jack Snow and Allan Paige, who were huge stars, were treated on campus pretty much like other students, and most of all were afforded considerable privacy. I wonder if students and athletes today would consider that kind of treatment a worthy student culture goal? 
Pat Conroy alumnus class of 1965 Sept. 6 

Grad students deserve tickets 
Recent decisions by the undergraduate Student Union Board (SUB) have resulted in the exclusion of graduate students from the lottery distribution of football tickets for the away game at Michigan State. The ticket office, which sold the tickets directly to the SUB, was unaware that graduate students were being excluded. The rationale given by the SUB was that, "due to the limited number of tickets available to Michigan State, we are only able to allow Notre Dame undergraduates to participate." 
This statement places a lower value on graduate students: they are not as important as undergradu­ates and thus should not have equal opportunities. Every away game lottery in the past has been open to graduate students, regardless of the number of tickets available. Graduate, law and MBA students make up 27 percent of the student population of this University. We are very much a part of the fabric of the Notre Dame community. 
We take classes just as the undergraduates do; we pay tuition just as the undergraduates do; and we deserve the same access to ticket lotteries that the undergraduates receive. 
Paul Schramm graduate student Sept. 6 

Israel intended to hit civilian targets 
In a Letter to the Editor ("Roads in Lebanon, Sept.5), Professor Gellman insists that criticism of Israeli attacks on Lebanon "should be made on factual grounds and on solid evidence of policies, not on factual errors." 
I entirely agree. 
Dismissing the suggestion that Israel bombed roads needed by escaping civil­ians, Professor Gellman writes, "Israel bombed only roads leading east and north­east from Lebanon in the direction of Syria. Roads leading North and Northwest were left open during the entire duration of the war." The evidence which he cites is CNN footage of returning refugees, but that is surely insufficient proof. 
The maps of UNIFIL and other agencies show where they have made fords and new roads, to avoid bombed roads. A CNN report of Aug. 15 described returning refugees driving through bomb craters and using a newly repaired bridge over the River Litani, north of Tyre. 
International relief agencies on the ground report the cutting of 94 roads and the destruction of 80 bridges, scattered all over the country. Furthermore, 25 fuel stations in the South were targeted. Civilian transportation was clearly a tar­get. 
So too were electricity stations, irriga­tion canals, water pumping stations, and supermarkets. As early as July 20, the Catholic charity Caritas Lebanon said, "The Israeli Army is making the situation even worse for Lebanese civilians by tar­geting warehouses and factories." 
Whatever the rights and wrongs of the campaign as a whole, or of any particular tactics, it is surely disingenuous to insist that any suffering inflicted on the civilian population was collateral damage. The Chief of Staff of the Israel Defense Force, Lt. Gen Dan Halutz, repeatedly stated that anything in Lebanon was a legitimate tar­get. 
"Nothing is safe [in Lebanon], as simple as that," he said on July 13. Bombing was intended to effect political change, not just to hit Hezbollah directly. 
David Harley visiting professor ofhistory Sept. 5 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Thursday, September 7, 2006 
CD REVIEW 
Simpson's 'Public Affair' should stay private 
Photo courtesy of ablazingly.com Jessica Simpson fails in her fourth album, "A Public Affair," to promote herself as a successful musician, and instead relies on her celebrity to sell her music. 
By COURTNEY WILSON 
Scene Critic 

Some may love Jessica for her charm, her humor, or (for guys) her sex appeal, but let's face it, regardless of her celebrity, Jessica Simpson has never been known for her singing talent. Before the three­season run of 'Newlyweds' -the reality show that publicized her marriage -the singer demonstrated poor record sales. Until 2003, the ditzy blonde was far over­shadowed by more popular singers like Britney Spears and Christina Aguilera. 
'A Public Affair' is her first album since the split from former hubby Nick Lachey. Lachey has recently come out with 'What's Left of Me,' a compilation of coo­ing songs that whine over the former cou­ple's divorce. But unlike Lachey, who has chosen to cry his way to the top of the pop charts, Simpson leaves the subject nearly untouched. 
It's a showcase of 80s inspired songs, which have generously been compared by some critics to an early Madonna. "A Public Affair," the first single to hit radio 
Jessica Simpson 
A Public Affair 
Sony 


waves, takes no shame in its "Lucky Star" inspiration. For the video, Simpson and her girls (Christina Applegate, Christina Milian and Eva Longoria) are clad in clas­sic 80s wear-11uorescent leggings, jumpsuits and glitter -at a local roller­skating rink. The song is puroly sticky-fin­gered bubblegum-pop with its carefree ready to "rock cause the party don't stop" lyrics. 
"You Spin Me Around (Like A Hecord)," arguably the best song on the album, is a cover of an old "Dead or Alive" song. Just like with last year's hit song "These Boots Are Made for Walking." Simpson proves that her greatest skill is at remaking already well-liked tunes. 
Although the album starts off well, it loses steam as it progresses. "Push Your Tush" proves that Simpson can't seem to shake the character, Daisy Duke, who she portrayed in "Dukes of llazzard." The persistent "Cock-a-doodle-doo!'' chorus and her ditzy laughter are both earaches. 
"I Belong to Me," the upcoming radio release, was voted the best single on the album by a number of Simpson fans on her official Web site. Purchasers may feel 

cheated, however, since the song only appears as an exclusive only available on the COs purchased at Wal-Mart locations. 
Having Jessica Simpson co-write a whopping eight songs was probably the first mistake in creating this album. It is an entire CD of gener­ic ballads and uninsprired pop songs with very little lyrical merit. And while the majority of Simpson's listeners are likely to be young, easily entertained teenybop­pers, the remaining fans will be left in complete boredom. 

Despite help from top pop producers Jimmy Jam, Terry Lewis and an even more notorious Scott Storch (responsible for Paris Hilton's debut album), Simpson fails to create a pop album that is better than mediocre, forgettable fluff. 
Despite the fact that this is her fourth album, Simpson hardly makes an attempt to promote herself as a talented and quali­fied singer. 
"A Public Affair" is largely a mix of songs simply thrown together to make a less than average album. It's hardly Simpson's best singing -and a sad attempt for an established celebrity. 


Always a tabloid favorite, Simpson's bubbly persona remains enough to over­shadow an incredibly disappointing music career. Simpson can expect to reach plat­inum with this album, as sales will likely be based on her celebrity rather than on the album's actual quality. 
Unfortunately, the best that anyone can hope to take away from the disc is a few average tunes for some late-night karaoke. Save the $15 dollars and splurge on Paris Hilton's CD instead. 
Contact Courtney Wilson at cwilson6@nd.edu 
L---------------------------------------------~ 
DVD REVIEW 

'Apocalypse Now' given hero's treatment innew set 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 

"Apocalypse Now" isn't really about war. It's about a descent into madness. 
Nearly 30 years after its original release, Francis Ford Coppola's 1979 opus remains one of cinema's most frustrating films. Glorious and gloriously flawed, it summed up the excess (negative and positive) that defined the 1970s epic. Alternately mas­terful and maddening, "Apocalypse Now" signaled the proverbial end of a decade. 
The latest release, "Apocalypse Now: The Complete Dossier" is a lavish collec­tor's edition DVD that celebrates one of Coppola's -and thus America's -most defming films. 
Nominally a war picture, "Apocalypse Now" adapts Joseph Conrad's novel "Heart of Darkness" into a nightmarish, impres­sionistic vision of Vietnam. The film follows Captain Benjamin Willard (Martin Sheen), a soldier sent deep into the Congo in pur­suit of Colonel Kurtz (Marlon Brando), a decorated soldier gone maverick. Along the way, Willard meets up with Lt. Col. Kilgore, who orders an aerial assault to the tune of Wagner's "Hide of the Valkyries" and an insane photo journalist (Dennis Hopper), among others. 
Part of a larger American cinematic framework about the post-Vietnam, post­Watergate era, "Apocalypse Now" is less dated and more artsy than its contempo­raries. Like Michael Cimino's "The Deer Hunter" (1978) and Terrence Malick's "The Thin Red Line" (1998), "Apocalypse Now" eschews the typical rhythm, content and pacing of a war film in favor of a broader, less focused meditation. 
Yet, like Malick's film, "Apocalypse Now" never seems very sure of what it's really about. The film runs very long, and its pac­ing is problematic at best. Additionally, Brando doesn't quite live up to his billing as the deranged Kurtz -although the heart attack Sheen ~xperienced while filming obviously had an effect on his per­formance, which is considerably more subdued than expected. 
"Apocalypse Now" has received several DVD treatments over the years (an origi­nal DVD release and 2001 "Hedux" cut), but none quite as lavish as "The Complete Dossier." Both the original and the 2001 "Redux" editions are included in Dolby 
Digital 5.1 

widescreen presen­tations. The film looks very clean, and the redesigned sound works quite well, though inclu­sion of the original stereo would have · been nice. There are several other interesting and informative fea­

tures, the best of which is Brando's com­plete reading of TS Eliot's "The Hollow Men." The packaging, which features an odd photo of Brando, is also well done and fits the tone of the film perfectly. 
The DVD, unfortunately, has one major problem that prevents it from truly being a definitive edition. It's missing Fax Bahr and George Ilickenlooper's phenomenal 1991 documentary "Hearts of Darkness: A Filmmaker's Apocalypse," which chroni­cled the trials and tribulations of making "Apocalypse Now." The featurettes on the existing DVD aren't nearly as involving, which is a shame, since "Hearts of Darkness" is one of the best making-of fea­tures ever. 

Had the second disc only included "I Iearts of Darkness" (like the second disc of the "Citizen Kane" DVD, which contains only the documentary "The Battle Over Citizen Kane"), this edition of "Apocalypse Now" would have been definitive. But the omission makes tlw title of the DVD, 'The Complete Dossier," a misnomer. 
However, "Apocalypse Now: The Complete Dossier" is a great DVD -even with the absence of "Hearts of Darkness." It may not be the complete version it claims to be, but it's a great edition of an even greater film. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, September 7, 2006 
page 13 
THEATER FEATURE 
Wash Hall features powerful'Two Rooms' 
Lee Blessing's moving,_ intelligent masterpiece given life 

Michael Wells (Drew McElligott), the hostage, attempts to explain the horrific situation he encountered during the 1980s Lebanese Civil War. 
By MARTY SCHROEDER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Since its inception, the goal of art has been to explore the human condition. Lee Blessing's "Two Rooms" does exact­ly this. Performed by the St. Edward's Hall Players, it references and creates a world that is full of pain and suffering, and it brings hope in a multitudinous fashion out of the depression that sur­rounds the characters. 
The Lebanese Civil War of the 1980s is the time period Blessing chooses as the play's setting. Michael Wells, an American professor working in Beirut, is kidnapped by one of the many war­ring factions involved in the civil war along with his colleague, Jim Mathison. 
His wife, Lainie Wells, is in the United States attempting to do all she can through her State Department liaison, Ellen Van Oss, to get Michael from his captors back home alive. A reporter, Walker Harris, discovers Lainie's situa­tion and pleads with her to make the story national through both personal interviews and television press confer­ences. He believes this will exert pres­sure on the U.S. government, which he feels is not doing enough to bring back Americans who are hostages in Lebanon. 
It is never said which faction captured Michael. All that is known is it is 
hostile to the Two Rooms together into a pas­United States and sionate, moving piece captured Michael When: Friday, Sept. 8, Sunday, Sept 10 of theater without to use for bar­and Monday, Sept. 11 at 7:30 p.m. dipping into sappy gaining. Where: Washington Hall Lab Theater, romance or vehe­
However, the Washington Hall ment anti-war atti­political situa­Cost: $5, only available at the door tudes. 
tions that the play is set in do not form the crux of the play. At its core, "Two Rooms" is about the love shared between Michael and Lainie. Blessing's script allows Lainie and Michael to talk to one another and share their respec­tive pain through what might be dreams or conversations they would have had were they able to talk to one another. 
In spite of its obvious political over­tones, director Patrick Vassel does not allow this production to become neither a scathing political commentary nor a romantic melodrama. Although the script could easily fall into both cate­gories, Vassel takes this play down a fine line that brings all the characters together in an inspired story of relation­ships -a marital relationship, a rela­and the cuckoo chick will push the warbler chicks out of the nest. 

Loveland, as Lainie, uses this analogy to describe how she feels. It is never quite clear who is what in the analogy. 
What is clear, through Loveland's performance, is that her "nest" -her home -is empty and she is starving for her husband, with no sure method of bringing him home. 
Sophomores Matt Goodrich and Emily Balthasar bring superb performances as Walker Harris and Ellen Van Oss, respectively. Goodrich brings a multi-faceted approach to his character. While Harris certain­ly wants to help Lainie bring Michael home, there is a sense that he is a reporter who dis­agrees with what the govern­ment is doing and wants to use Lainie's experience for his politi­cal agenda. Goodrich is able to 
Walker Harris (Matt Goodrich), left, attempts to persuade Lainie Wells {Sarah Loveland) find a mix of these emotions in to publicize her traumatic experience with the press. She is uncomfortable with the idea. Harris. 
tionship between the press and war vic­tims and the relationship between a people and their government. The for­mer is primary, but the other two are intricately related to the first. 
Vassel is able to 
weave these three 
Senior Drew 
McElligott mar­velously plays the central figure and hostage, Michael Wells. The love he has for his profession and students is noted in a scene in which he discusses the decision made to stay one more term, even though the violence in the area is rapidly escalating. 
However, it is the love for his wife where McElligott's acting dexterity is apparent. He is able to switch from intense pain to intense love and com­passion with an aptitude rarely seen in a student production at Notre Dame. His guards beat him and the fear is appar­ent, but a hope he may one day see his wife keeps him alive. 
The scenes that involve both he and Lainie are moving, and one almost for-
Balthasar brings a similar gets that Michael is halfway across the character to the play, albeit a different world in Lebanon while Lainie is sitting one. Van Oss's complication comes from in her home in the United States. her job -she wants to be a good 
Sarah Loveland, a senior and bureaucrat and help her administration, McElligott's counterpart, is the softness and she wants to tell Lainie all will be that brings this play away from simple well in the end. Van Oss is apt is as a 
political criticism  troubled (however below  
and into more pro­ the surface) government  
found areas of humanity. In many ways, this charac­ter cannot deal  The raw emotional humanity that CNN or Fox News cannot-or will  representative. "Two Rooms" is a play that supplies the audience with war and all its ugliness  
with the loss of her husband and, through most of the  not bring to the table is in this play.  and, in many ways, con­stancy. The pain through which  

play, stays with a mat that she keeps in Michael's office to stay in touch with him. 
The conflict of "Two Rooms" is cen­tered on Lainie as the avenues of gov­ernment, the press and home all con­verge on her, and Loveland is certainly up to the task of moving from depres­sion, to hope, to anger and back around again through all of these and more at the same time. The love of her life is captive and she does all she can to bring him. back. 
In one scene, Lainie discusses the habit of cuckoo birds to lay their eggs in other birds' nests. The cuckoo will lay an egg in a warbler nest, the egg will hatch with an indentation on its back 
all of these characters are 

subject to is a better way to explore wartime pain than any blurb or news show ubiquitous on all of today's news networks. 
The raw emotional humanity that CNN or Fox News cannot -or will not bring to the table -is in this play. Whatever one's political views, there is something human in this play that everyone will be able to connect to. 
"Two Rooms" will show in the Washington Hall Lab Theater today, Friday, Sunday and Monday at 7:30pm. Tickets wilL be $5 and available at the door. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
courtesy 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 7, 2006 
MLB 
Mets top Braves twice in day-night doubleheader sweep 
RBis in 39 at-bats with New the brink of the wild-card race,

Dodgers halt losing 
York. He said a timing adjust­fell 20 1/2 games behind New ment he recently made with his York in the NL East with 23 to

streak with 2-0 win 
stride has helped him get com­play. After winning 14 straight fortable again. division titles, their run could 
Associated Press 
"It was a lot of fun," he said. come to its mathematical con­
NEW YORK -The Mets and "If you could pick one lineup in clusion this weekend. Braves played a doubleheader baseball to hit in, this would be Acquired from Pittsburgh at Wednesday that resembled the it. It's got everything." the trade deadline, Perez struck NL East race all season. Jose Reyes hit the first pitch out six and walked one in his 
It was no contest. he saw in the second game for third career complete game. His 
Shawn Green busted out of his his sixth leadoff homer of the previous was on May 13, 2004, slump with a huge day at the season, setting a Mets record. for the Pirates at Colorado, also plate, Oliver Perez pitched his Chris Woodward added a two­in the second game of a double­second career shutout for his run double off Kyle Davies (2-5), header. first win since May, and New · pinch-hitter Endy Chavez deliv­York completed a doubleheader ered a two-run triple and Julio Astros 5, Phillies 3 sweep with an 8-0 rout of Franco had an RBI single. Lance Berkman fell behind in Atlanta. Playing their third double­the count, hoped for a pitch he 
"It was a big day for us, to header in five days, the Braves could handle and made the most have the type of pitching per­looked listless against a pair of of an inside-out swing. formances we had and to put fill-in lefties. Berkman's bases-dearing dou­some runs up on the board," "It takes its toll," Atlanta out­ble with two outs in the ninth Green said. "It was a great day fielder Jeff Francoeur said. "We inning gave the Houston Astros all around." didn't play well. We're much a victory over the Philadelphia 
Carlos Delgado hit a tiebreak­better as a team than we Phillies on Wednesday night. ing homer in the opener, and the showed." Andy Pettitte allownd two runs Mets got another fine effort on The Mets had not swept a dou­and seven hits in 6 1-3 innings the mound from Dave Williams bleheader from Atlanta since for Houston. Dan Wheeler (2-5) in a 4-1 victory. July 22, 1988. retired the two batters he faced 
Green homered late in that Perez (3-11) tossed a career­to earn the win. Brad Lidge one, then connected again in the best five-hitter in his first win for pitched the ninth, allowing an nightcap. He finished the day 6-the NL East-leading Mets, who unearned run, for his 30th save for-8 with four runs scored and improved to 15-4 in their last 19 in 35 chances. three RBis, earning a curtain games and trimmed their magic The Phillies came in two call from a sparse crowd. number to nine for clinching games behind NL wild card­
Acquired on Aug. 22 from their first division championship leading San Diego. They are tied. Arizona, Green began the after­since 1988. with the Marlins at 70-69 going ning to second base and was Lowe (14-8) won his fifth noon batting only .179 with five The Braves, trying to stay on into a four-game series at thrown out trying for a double straight decision, giving up a 
Florida starting Thursday night. on a strong throw from Taveras double to Geoff Jenkins in the 
Pinch-hitter Orlando Palmeiro for the second out. second, a single to Corey Hart in singled to start the ninth against "I was shocked he was out. It the third and an infield hit to Ryan Madson (1 0-9). Brad was a great throw," Manuel said. Kevin Mench in the eighth. He Ausmus sacrificed pinch-runner The Astros, who finished one was 4-1 with a 1.69 ERA in Eric Bruntlett to second base, game ahead of the Phillies to August and has allowed only six 
< 
Mike Lamb was intentionally win the wild-card berth last year earned runs in his last six out­walked and Willy Taveras and advanced to the World ings. punched a single to right field to Series, entered the night five Takashi Saito worked the load the bases. games behind the Padres in the ninth for his 18th save in 20 
Madson fanned Craig Biggio wild-card chase. chances. for the second out, but Berkman "Absolutely a must-win for Los Angeles, which lost a lined a 1-2 pitch down the left­us," Astros manager Phil Garner series to the Brewers for the field line to score all three run­said. first time, is 41-20 against ners. Milwaukee. 
''I'm just trying to survive up Dodgers 2, Brewers 1 Chris Capuano (11-10) there," Berkman said. "He Derek Lowe allowed three hits dropped to 1-6 in his last 11 throws a lot of plus pitches. It's and an unearned run in eight starts, allowing two runs and hard t~ know what you're going innings to help the Los Angeles five hits in eight innings. to get. Dodgers beat the Milwaukee Milwaukee went ahead in the 
Madson went with his third­Brewers 2-1 Wednesday night second when Prince Fielder was best pitch, a curve ball, to and stop a three-game losing hit by a pitch, Bill Hall reached Berkman. Phillies manager streak. on a forceout and left fielder Charlie Manuel said he would've Matt Kemp scored the tying Andre Ethier misplayed Jenkins' preferred a fastball inside, but run and drove in the go-ahead double down the line for an Madson defended his decision. run for Los Angeles, which error that allowed Hall to come 
"I got two guys out on the avoided getting swept in the around. curve the previous inning so I three-game series. The Dodgers, Kemp tripled in the fifth and had confidence in it," he said. who trailed in the NL West by 7 scored on Rafael Furcal's sacri­
Jimmy Rollins had an RBI sin­1/2 games on July 26, began the fice fly, then hit an RBI single in gle in the ninth for the Phillies, night one game ahead 'of sec­the seventh after Russell but appeared to slow down run-ond-place San Diego. Martin's leadoff double. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The 
charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
2-6 BDRM HOMES & ROOMS JUST 2 BLOCKS TO ND! Stay at AN ACTUAL ABOVE-AVERAGE NEAR CAMPUS AVAIL FOR FOOT-Mo & Jo s off-campus lodging for ABIDING FAN DESPERATELY FoR SALE FoR RENT BALL WEEKENDS & ND-SMC events. $150/night, 2 night NEEDS FOOTBALL TIX. ANY OR PERSONAL 
SCHOOL YEAR. minimum. 1 bdrm available. For ALL GAMES. LOCAL Condo for sale 2 bdrm twnhse call 2 rooms in private home w/sepa-574-329-0308. more info call574-276-6459. CALL UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 269-445-2765 rate entrance for football weekends. www.geocities.com/gillisrealty@sbc-Rent a home NO football weekends. 654-0169. not go it alone. If you or someone 
Shared bath. Close to ND. 574-259-global. net 574-784-8638. you love needs confidential support 
Investment homes for sale near ND. 8603. 866-521-8989. 
2-3-4 bdrms. Share w/FRIENDS. Enchanting 2-story 2-3 bdrrn cot-50% off dep. if rented by 10/1. 255­tage on 3/4 acre lot across from 7000. Warren Golf Course. Low taxes & utilities. $145,000. Call574-277-NOW LEASING FOR 2007-2008 2684 or mascotte@comcast.net STADIUM CLUB CONDOMINIUMS 
Spacious 2bdrm 2ba. During football season -Do not rent Washer/Dryer. Call Susan Miller at 
Suite available for Penn State & Michigan weekends. Walk to ND. $150/night 574-235-4091. Also monthly units available. 
House for home games. 4 doors from ND. Call Gary at 574-993­2208. 
New lodging for ND home games. 2 bdrm apt above Mishawaka bar. Dates avail. Call 360-8165. 
TICKETS 
WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251­1570 
WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. or assistance, please call Sr. Sue TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more WILL PAY MORE. information, see our bi-weekly ad in 574-288-2726. The Observer. 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL www.ndgamedayroom.com 
TICKETS. BEST PRICES. ATIORNEY Lyn Leone available. 574-232-2378. Underage consumption, DWL 574­
272-1968. 

or Hotel it Buy apartment complex. 243-7530. TOP$ PAID FOR ND FOOTBALL 10 one-bdrm furnished units. 4 mi to RV ND home games. Sleeps 6-8. FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232-TKTS Travel with STS to this years top 10 ND. Great investment or convert to BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam-Transportation, 0964 289-9280 Spring Break destinations! Best condos. Call Larry 574-255-9363 or pus homes & weekend rentals. tailgating & lodging. deals guaranteed! Highest rep com­257-0039. Bluegoldrentals.com 574-243-5547. Need ND tix & parking pass all Willing to swap 2 PU tix for 2 UCLA missions. Visit www.ststravel.com or 
Rental homes 3-6 bdrms. Close to home games. 574-276-8507. tix. Call Bob call 523 Howard St. 4 blocks off cam-ND. Call Gary 574-993-2208. Weekend lodging for ND home 277-2560. 1-800-648-4849. pus. 2 BDRM Home. 1000 sq.ft. games. 2 nice rooms w/house A BUSINESSMAN PAYING TOP$$ Great group discounts. basemenVgarage. Everything new. ND Games 1-3M. 3 Bdrms priv. privileges. 20 mins. from stadium. FOR SEASON TIX OR INDIVIDUAL TRADE -HAVE 2 ND/PS, NEED 2 $65,900. homes Call GAMES. CALL MARK 574-277-ND/MICH Badges, we don't need no stinkin' 574-257-9683. 574-273-2241. 269-699-7447. 1659. N.D.GRISH@ MCHSLCOM badges. 

OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, September 7, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 

NCAA Women's Volleyball AVCA Poll 
team record previous 
1 Nebraska (51 ) 4-0 1 2 Penn State (B) 6-0 2 3 UCLA {1) 6-0 10 4 Santa Clara 5·0 6 5 Washington 4-1 3 5 Florida 4-1 5 7 Texas 4-1 8 8 Stanford 3-1 4 
g 
Hawaii 3-2 7 10 Southern California 6-0 14 11 Wisconsin 4-1 g 12 Tennessee 5-1 11 13 California 6-0 17 14 Purdue 7-0 16 15 Missouri 6~1 13 16 BYU 6-0 NR 17 Ohio 3-2 15 18 Pepperdine 2-3 19 19 Ohio Slate 6-0 23 20 Louisville 4-2 1 
NCAA Women's Soccer Adidas Top 20 
team record previous 
1 NOTRE DAME 4-0-0 5 2 Florida Stae 3·0-0 6 3 TexasA&M 3·0-1 9 4 Santa Clara 3·1-0 7 5 North CaroUna 4-1-0 4 6 UCLA 3+0 2 7 Penn State 1·1-2 3 8 Texas 2·1-0 NR 9 Portland 2·1-1 1 10 Virginia 3·1-0 8 10 Connecticut 2-1-1 16 12 Tenn&$$8e 1·H 14 13 Aubum 4-0-0 NR 14 Utah 3·1-1 NR 15 Duke 3-1-0 12 16 tatifomia 3-6-1 11 ••:gH&:t 17 West Virginia 18 Missouri 19 C<lt State Fullerton 20 Wake forest 

.:.::®::.:,::-:,: 
.. ··: ...:+:: 
•:)::·· 
PQA: world Golf. 

player events avg~ points 
1 Tiger Woods 42 22.59 2 Phil Mickelson 45 8.83 3 Jimfuryk 53 8.17 4 Vijay Singh 62 7.59 5 Relief Goosen 57 6.63 6 Adam Scott 50 6.27 7 Ernie Els 46 5.90 8 Sergio Garcia 48 5.85 9 Luke Donald 51 5.68 10 Geolf Ogilvy 54 5.66 11 Henrik Stenson 53 4.74 12 David Howell 53 4.57 13 David Toms 50 4.41 '14 Trevor lmmelman 54 4.32 15 Colin Montgomerie 57 4.31 16 Chris DiMarco 53 4.27 17 Padraig Harrington 55 4.19 18 Jose Maria Olazabal 54 4.05 19 Tim Clark 59 3.87 20 Chad Campbell 52 3.66 
around the dial 
TENNIS 
U.S. Open 11 a.m., 7 p.m., USA 

NCAA FOOTBALL Oregon State at Boise State 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL Miami at Pittsburgh 8:30 p.m., NBC 
TENNIS 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Rafael Nadal's shots were off the mark and, more shocking­ly, even his boundless energy seemed to fail him. After one miss-hit, the man usually in perpetual motion hunched over, hands on knees, to catch his breath. 
No. 2 Nadal and No. 1 Roger Federer will not become the first pair of men to meet in three con­secutive Grand Slam finals during a season: Nadal was upset in the U.S. Open quarterfinals by 54th­ranked Mikhail Youzhny of Russia 6-3, 5-7. 7-6 (5), 6­1 on Wednesday. 
"Unbelievable," Youzhny said. "I cannot believe I beat Rafa in four sets." 
He wasn't alone. After all, Youzhny never before had been beyond the fourth round of a major tournament. 
What was most remark­able was the way Nadal, the two-time French Open champion and this year's Wimbledon runner-up, succumbed at the end, hanging his head at changeovers. 
It was the biggest news on a busy day following Tuesday's almost total rainout. And it's probably safe to say that Youzhny's semifinal opponent ­either Andy Roddick or 
IN BRIEF 

lions assistant coach arrested 
after driving nude, DUI 
DEARBORN, Mich. -A Detroit Lions assistant coach was arrested twice in the past two weeks -once while police say he was driving nude and a week later on suspicion of drunken driving. 
Police in the Detroit suburb of Dearborn said Joe Cullen, who coaches the team's defensive line, was pulled over Aug. 24 and ticketed on suspicion of indecent and obscene conduct. 
The ticket does not provide any other information about why Cullen allegedly was nude. 
The Lions said alcohol was involved. 
Then, on Sept. 1, police stopped his 2006 Ford Explorer and determined he had a blood-alcohol content of 
0.12 percent, court records show. The legal limit for drivers in Michigan in 0.08 percent. 
Lleyton Hewitt, two past Open champions who were to meet later Wednesday -would be relieved not to have to face Nadal. 
On the other side of the men's draw, the top-seed­ed Federer moved into a quarterfinal against No. 5 James Blake, both win­ning in straight sets. That half's other quarterfinal will be No. 7 Nikolay Davydenko against No. 14 Tommy Haas. 
"If I play my best, then I don't see any reason why I can't win. If he's playing his best, then I can see a reason why I might not win, but it's possible," said Blake, trying to reach his first major semifinal. "He's lost before. He is human." 

There still could be a No. 1 vs. No. 2 final for the women, because top­seeded Amelie Mauresmo and Justine Henin­Hardenne advanced with relative ease. 
Coming off a three-set struggle against Serena Williams, Mauresmo was pleased to have a short workday, beating No. 12 Dinara Safina 6-2, 6-3 to move a step closer to her third Grand Slam title of the year. Mauresmo next faces No. 3 Maria Sharapova or No. 27 
Tatiana  Golovin,  who  
squared  off under  the  
lights.  

Raiders replace Gabriel with 
Whitted in starting lineup 
OAKLAND -Alvis Whitted will start at wide receiver for the Oakland Raiders in their season opener against San Diego, filling the role vacated when Doug Gabriel was traded to New England. 
The little-used Whitted hasn't started since the final game of the 2004 season and has just 11 starts in eight seasons in the NFL. 
"He can run good routes and catch the ball, too," coach Art Shell said Wednesday. "He has good quickness and explosion.... This guy's been working the whole camp, worked all offseason, and this guy deserves a shot at it." 
Whitted sat out the past two pre­season games with a groin injury. 
Gabriel was slated to start before being traded to New England for an undisclosed draft pick on Saturday. 

Tigers cut Dmibi Young after 
poor performances 
DETROIT -The Detroit Tigers unconditionally released designated hitter Dmitri Young after Wednesday's loss to the Seattle Mariners . 
Tigers general manager Dave Dombrowski said the move was "strictly performance related." 
Young was activated from the dis­abled list July 21 after he left the Tigers on May 22 to undergo treat­ment for substance abuse at a California rehab center. 
He was 0-for-3 with two strikeouts in Wednesday's 5-4, 10-innmg loss. 
"''m not going to talk," said Young, whose bags were packed for the upcoming series at Minnesota. 
Young spent 30 days in the rehabili­tation facility and three weeks working out with minor league teams. 
He concluded his time away from the Tigers by hitting .452 in eight games at Triple-A Toledo. 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 7, 2006 
MLB 

Matsui draws crowd at rehab stint in Trenton 
Forgiveness and the Challenge of Loving Enemies 

Join fellow students and faculty for dinner and an evening of faith-based discussion 
Tuesday, September 26th at 6:00 pm Notre Dame Stadium Press Box 
Featuring guest speaker 
Dr. Gregory jones 
Professor of Theology and Dean of Duke Divinity School 
If interested, e-mail the Center for Ethics and Culture at ethics2@nd.edu. Please give us your name, local addr~ss, class and major. Spaces are limited to the first eighty students who respond; priority will be given to thos who have never attended. We welcome all students regardless of faith commitment. 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture 
http://ethicscenter.nd.edu 

Associated Press 

TRENTON, N.J. -The moment Pete White stepped out of his car and crossed the street toward Mercer County Waterfront Park on Wednesday afternoon, groups of Japanese photographers and reporters rushed toward him, microphones extended, asking questions he only part­ly understood. 
They had spotted his Japanese baseball jersey with the number 55 on the back, and knew White was here for the same reason they were: New York Yankees left fielder Hideki Matsui, one of the biggest baseball stars from Japan, was to make a rehab start with the minor league Trenton Thunder as he works his way back from the broken wrist he injured in May. 
In less than 30 minutes, White was interviewed by at least 12 Japanese camera crews, all chronicling Matsui's eventual return to the big leagues. 
"It's just great to have a player like him play here," White said. "You look at how popular he is all over the world. He's like his own brand. He's like a rock star." 
The Thunder, the Yankees' Double-A Eastern League affil­iate, issued 90 media creden­tials for the playoff game against the Portland Sea Dogs. Sixty went to Japanese jour­nalists. 
Matsui, hoping to regain his batting stroke for the playoffs, sprayed the field with line drives and hit the ball over the right-field wall during 20 min­utes of batting practice. His left wrist heavily taped, he also participated. in fielding and running drills, and said afterward that he felt fine. 
"I was hitting the ball well," said through a translator. "I think I'll be fine out there." 
Matsui struck out in the top of the first. His timing appeared to be off as he fouled off three pitches, barely nicking them. He led off the fourth inning by lining out to the right fielder. 
He likely will be restricted to designated hitter duty for the rest of the season, Yankees manager Joe Torre said before Monday night's game in Kansas City. 
"We've got a lot invested in Matsui," Torre said. "If there is a concern, where he's out in left field, even though he's cured -he's healed ...:.... there still might be a time where he may to want to make a diving play, and we'd all hold our breath." 
However, Torre said, he and general manager Brian Cashman had not completely ruled out a return to the out­field for Matsui. 
"We may be overcautious," Torre said. "We may find when we get home and talk to the doctors, they may have sliding catch May 11 on a "When you get hurt and see some different ideas." sinking line drive by Boston's a little bit of recovery, to me, I 

Matsui said he was not frus­Mark Loretta, preferring to was amazed," he said. "It trated about his injury, which concentrate on exercises and proved to me that there can be happened as he tried for a being patient. fun in rehab as well." 

Thursday, September 7, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
NFL, players union discuss drug testing i111prove111ents 
front of the line in drug testing before going upstairs to the
League also finalizes 
and I think we will continue." press box for a more formal Goodell touched on a number session.
new six-year contract 
of subjects, taking in most with officiating crews cases the same positions as Goodell also said: 
Tagliabue -not unexpected + The league is looking at given that he's been on the job the possibility of wiring players Associated Press for less than a other than quar­week and was terbacks so that EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­Tagliabue's No. 2 there will be
"I think we've got a
The NFL and its union are dis­man for so long. fewer false starts
lot ofgreat experts 
cussing strengthening their He said his first by visitors in drug program to keep pace priority will be who will be able to noisy stadiums. with the increase in the num­visiting all 32 "Don't get me
work with this.
ber of performance-enhancing teams, starting wrong," Goodell
We've always been 
substances and the efficiency of this week. He said. "I love the masking agents. will attend at the front of the 12th man. But 
Commissioner Roger Goodell, Thursday night's keeping the game
line in drug testing, 
in his first news conference opening game in moving without
and I think we will
since taking over for Paul Pittsburgh fea-so many penal­Tagliabue last Friday, said turing the continue." ties is also very Wednesday he has been dis­Steelers and important." cussing the problem with Gene Miami Dolphins, + He doesn't
Roger Goodell 
Upshaw, the head of the NFL then return for anticipate the
NFL commissioner
Players Association. Among the Sunday's contest NFL expanding topics discussed were increas­between the beyond 32 teams ing the number of tests and Giants and Colts before going to in the near future. But Goodell, perhaps the number of sub­Monday night's game in who has been the league's point stances tested. Washington between the man in trying to get a franchise 
But Goodell, who has been Redskins and Vikings. back in Los Angeles, said put­the NFL's chief operating officer He actually began talking to ting an expansion team in the past six years, noted that players Wednesday, meeting southern California could be the review is nothing new: The with the Giants. He got a hug the exception. union and the league review from Michael Strahan, chatted + The NFL has reached a the drug testing program annu­with Tiki Barber and center new six-year contract with its ally. The NFL currently makes Shaun O'Hara, and shook officials, who five years ago approximately 10,000 random hands with general manager were locked out for part of the tests annually for performance­Ernie Accorsi and coach Tom 2001 preseason and the first enhancing drugs to about 2,000 Coughlin. But Coughlin, who week of the regular season players. doesn't like his daily routine when they failed to come to an 
"I think we've got a lot of interrupted, also appeared to agreement. The dispute was great experts who will be able be a little taken aback when settled before the second week, to work with this," Goodell Goodell stopped near the prac­which was postponed by the said. "We've always been at the tice field to chat with reporters Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
l 7'1 TO ll l ClrY Pfl"f!S.·fflfS 
UMPHREY'S McGEE 
FRIDAY, SEPT. 
ROBERT J .. FISCHGRUND C ST. PA: 
50651 Laurel Road:, Soul'b .. R.•.A.•,..,.. Do· 
Op~ _. ·Coa~•r•: 
.. . . 

.Tickets are $2~~ndtbere is a $4 parkif.tg>fee per vehicle TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT WWW..TT.RC;.;COM 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 7, 2006 
MLB 

Marlins rookie hurls no-no, ends MLB drought 
Miguel Cabrera, Joe Borchard hit solo homers in 2-0 victory 
Associated Press 

MIAMI -In this year of sen­sational rookies, Anibal Sanchez came up with the greatest per­formance yet -a no-hitter in his 13th career start. 
Sanchez ended the longest no­hit gap in major league history Wednesday night, benefiting from three defensive gems by teammates to lead the Florida Marlins over the Arizona Diamondbacks 2-0. 
"This is the best moment of my life," the 22­year-old Venezuelan said. 
One of four rook­"This is the best for the Marlins, ies in the Marlins' moment ofmy life." the youngest rotation, Sanchez team in the (7-2) walked four major leagues. 
Anibel Sanchez
and pitched around Announced an error. He struck Marlins' pitcher attendance was 
The hardest-hit ball was in the sixth by Byrnes, who pulled a line drive. that third baseman Miguel Cabrera reached up to snare with two hands. 
Arizona's Carlos Quentin hit a sharp grounder down the line in the fifth. Cabrera made a back­handed stop on one knee, then rose and threw wide, pulling Jacobs off the bag. 
Official scorer Ron Jernick charged Cabrera with an error, prompting cheers from the small crowd. The Marlins are next-to­last in the NL in defense. 
Sanchez is not considered one of the Marlins' half-dozen con­tenders for NL Rookie of the Year, but he improved his EHA as a starter to 2.28. The right­handor is one of 21 rookies to play this season 
out six and threw 103 pitches. 

He finished it off in quick fashion in the ninth. Sanchez struck out Conor Jackson swinging on a 1-2 pitch, got Luis Gonzalez to pop out to third, then retired Eric Byrnes on a sharp grounder to short­stop Hanley Ramirez, whose throw to first easily beat the runner. 
"The last ground ball, I wasn't going to flub that," Ramirez said. "It wasn't going to get past 1ne." 
The Marlins poured out of the dugout en masse and swarmed around Sanchez, with the jubi­lant mob collectively hopping as one between the mound and third base. 
Sanchez' teammates then hoisted him on their shoulders as he pointed his fingers and thrust his fists to the crowd, where his wife was in stands. 
"She was there," Sanchez said, his eyes wet with tears of joy. "I don't know, I can't say any more. I love her, I love my family." 
The previous no-hitter in the majors was a perfect game by Arizona's Randy Johnson, who beat Atlanta 2-0 on May 18, 2004. The prior no-hitter by a rookie was by Bud Smith of St. Louis, who beat San Diego 4-0 on Sept. 1, 2001. 
The Diamondbacks came close to a hit several times. Florida left fielder Josh Willingham sprinted in to make a diving catch and rob Chad Tracy with two on to end the fourth. Ramirez ranged to his left to snare a grounder by Stephen Drew in the seventh, then whirled and threw to beat the runner by half a step. 
Sanchez greeted Ramirez coming off the field with a high­five and a slap on the rear. 
Ramirez repaid the favor after making the last out, smashing a shaving-cream filled towel in Sanchez' face as he spoke to the television cameras. 
"Maybe I'll have to shave after the game," Sanchez quipped. 
Then he switched to Spanish, acknowledging his family in Venezuela. 
A rare 4-3-6 double play ended the eighth. With Craig Counsell at first, Orlando Hudson hit a grounder to second baseman Dan Uggla, who missed a swipe at Counsell and threw to first. First baseman Mike Jacobs' relay to second retired Counsell. 
12,561, but the 
actual crowd was 
perhaps half that. The surprising Marlins arn last in the major leagues in attendance even though they began the night only throe games behind San Diego in the NL wild-card race. 
The Diamondbacks have lost seven of their past eight games and 15 of 19 to fade from the playoff race. 
Joe Borchard and Miguel Cabrera hit solo homers for Florida. 
Sanchez retired the first 10 batters, then fell behind Jackson 3-0 and walked him on a 3-2 pitch. He then walked Gonzalez on four pitches, but Byrnes lined out, and Willingham's skidding catch in left ended the inning. 
Gonzalez walked again on four pitches before Byrnes again lined out to end the sixth. 
Sanchez's longest previous start was seven innings. He walked pinch-hitter Counsell on a 3-2 pitch with one out in the eighth, but the double play ended the inning. 
Arizona's Edgar Gonzalez (1­2), recalled from Triple-A Tucson to make his third start of season, pitched six-plus innings 

THURSDAY Kick off your football weekend! Two NO-Penn State Tickets will be given away free at midnight 
Show Student ID-No Cover Win $50 Club 22 Gift Cards Live "Otis" from U 93 (10:00 PM-midnight) 
FRIDAY Live music outside on the patio DJ Inside from 12:00-3:00 AM 
SATURDAY In-House DJ-Dance all night long From 9:00 PM-3:00 AM (No Cover 9:00-11:00 PM) 
COME OUT AND SEE WHAT EVERYONE IS TALKING ABOUT! 
50827 Princess Way, Granger 

and allowed five hits and two runs, both on homers. 
Borchard hit his ninth home run in the second inning to tie a W .anIIII!N:II: <:_:, " _.-,_ career high. Cabrera hit his 24th homer in the fourth. Old pain'tin.gs by 

The no-hitter was the fourth in !lndrana artisllls and the Marlins' 14-season history, Noll re D.tllrna art is.'ts and the first since A.J. Burnett 
Please c<>ntact
threw one against San Diego on 
Mi chaaiJ Wnighll
May 12, 2001. The only other 
a.1: 574.:286.93:59
pitcher to no-hit the Diamondbacks was Jose Jimenez of St. Louis, who beat Arizona 1-0 on June 25, 1999. 
Thursday, September 7, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
"Mass of Remembrance on the Fifth Anniversary of September 11 , ZOO 1 " 
Monday, September 11, 2006 5:15pm at the Grotto 
(Rain location: Basilica of the Sacred Heart) 
Presider: Fr. John Jenkins, esc, President of the University 
Homilist: Fr. Richard Warner, esc, 
Director of Campus Ministry 
Music will be provided by the combined choirs of Campus Ministry and the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
* There will be no regular 5:15pm Daily Mass in the Basilica on Monday, September 11, 2006. 
. 

I I 
I 
' 
I 
I 
I 
I 
' 
I 
I 
' ' 
r 

page 20 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 7, 2006 
'. 
I 
r 
•
. 
' 
' 
I 
! ­
.i ' ' 
' 
' 
' ' ' 
• 
! : I . 

' 




resents 


I 


Dillon Pep Rally Thurstfay 7:00pm South Quad 
' 
I I 
r , 
' 
t 

-~ 
l 1 
Thursday, September 7, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 1 
l 
•I 
SMC SOCCER 
Controversial no-call prevents Belles draw-
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's got off to a slow start this season with a 2-1 loss to Albion Wednesday, as the Belles looked exhausted towards the game's end ­struggling to match their oppo­nent's intensity. 
"It was not an easy day for any of us today," Belles head coach Caryn MacKenzie 
winner for Albion in the 70th minute. Oatley hammered home a rebound after fresh­man Brittany Cortese got loose on a controversial breakaway. Cortese looked to be offside ­but the play stood and the Britons took the lead for good. 
The goal came after a 45­minute stalemate in which both teams threat­ened to score sev­eral times but 
rience, and I think we will gain confidence as the year goes on." 
Mackenzie, now in her third year at Saint Mary's, used many new players in the game through frequent substitutions. 
This year's team is much deeper than any of MacKenzie's previous groups. Mackenzie says she does not intend to use her bench quite 
said. "We just "We just couldn't couldn't seem to seem to find our find our flow at 
flow at any point."
any point." 
Brittons fresh­man Allison Oatley Caryn MacKenzie scored the game Belles head coach 
as much in the future, but that she needed to try to develop a rhythm in the game. 
"It seemed like the longer I left them out there, the less fluent it became," she said. 
The Belles fell behind early as Albion's Shepard 

scored her third goal of the season seven minutes into the contest. After settling their nerves, Saint Mary's answered 12 minutes later when sisters Ashley and Lauren Hinton hooked up for the third time this year. 
Ashley Hinton 
floated a pass over 
the Briton defense 

could not seal the and Lauren Hinton
"This year will be a 
deal. The Belles finished from 10
learning process. " 
had three corner­yards out to tie the kicks and eight game with 25 min­shots in the score­Caryn MacKenzie utes left in the less stretch, but the half.
Belles head coach 
team seemed to be just a little off on each attempt. 
Saint Mary's goalkeeper Laura Heline also faced quite a few shots and made some big saves to keep the game in reach. Heline stopped two breakaways, including a two-on-none opportunity for Albion's Danielle Shepard and Oatley. 
"We need to work on staying more organized in the back," MacKenzie said. "That is where we have a lot of inexpe-
Lauren Hinton continued to get scoring opportuni­ties throughout the 

game but was unable to capi­talize again. The offense sput­tered in the second half, but Mackenzie still saw positives. 
"This year will be a learning process," she said. "We have a young and talented group this year with a lot of things to build on." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
MEN'S GOLF 
Senior captains go way back 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame senior captains Adam Gifford and Cole Isban met when they were just eight years old and have been great friends since. 
So _it's fitting that head coach Jim Kubinski named the two team co-captains. 
"If there was any way we could have known about this 12 years ago, I'm not sure we would have believed it," said Gifford, who hails from Plymouth, Ind. "We're really looking forward to leading the team." 
The homegrown Isban, raised in South Bend, has led the team for three years. The All­America candidate has been among the squad leaders in stroke average since his sopho­more year. 
"I've just been trying to set a good example [for the other golfers] by carrying myself well on and off the course," he said. 
lsban won the first of two Irish team qualifiers Tuesday to clinch a spot on the traveling squad for the team's first event, the Gopher Invite at Spring Hill Golf Club in Wyzata, Minn. 
The Irish can take five golfers to Minnesota, and Kubinski said he is uncertain which four other players will travel. 
And while Kubinski has not penciled in a definite starting lineup, he said he feels things beginning to fall into place. Kubinski anticipates that sopho­more Josh Sandman, with whom Isban competed last month in the U.S. Amateur Championship, will occupy the No. 2 slot behind the senior. 
Kubinski said he saw many positive signs throughout the first qualifier. He especially cited the leadership of his new captains. 
"[Gifford] has shown great spirit and enthusiasm, and he's been a good example for every­one on the team," he said. 
Isban, Kubinski said, will 

"probably break the school record for career tournament rounds played at some point this year." 
''I'm pretty comfortable that he'll do a good job [as captain]," he said. 
While Gifford has never matched the success of Isban, Kubinski said that could change this year. 
"He had a very good sum­mer," Kubinski said. "I expect him to travel quite a bit this season." 
The team will leave for Minnesota next Thursday, so the next six days will determine who will travel. 
"Everybody's fighting for spots," Gifford said. "The five guys who are playing the best get to go [to the Gopher Invite] and hopefully win the tourna­ment." 

With such a competitive atmosphere, it's important for the Irish to remain focused on their collective goals. _ 
"We've been trying to make the transition from playing as individuals [in the summer] to playing for the greater good of the team," Gifford said. 
Sandman said that the cap­tains have done their jobs. 
"It's been pretty competitive, and Cole and Adam have been good about getting the team together to play a lot," Sandman said. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
careers -is likely to aid the Irish on their pursuit for the
Veterans 
top. continued from page 24 To improve upon the success 
the team has already seen, schedule does not begin until Notre Dame will take part in the spring, but Bayliss said the six weeks of competitive fall Irish will work to establish play, which kicks off with the themselves as a squad recog­Irish-hosted Tom Fallon nized as tops in the nation. Invitational on Sept. 22. 
Bass and Parbhu, who The competitive fall season played at the No. 1 and No. 2 ends with the ITA National singles spots over Intercollegiate the summer, enter I n d o o r the fall season Championships in ranked No. 20 and "We have a great November. Bass No. 21 in the coun­and Parbhu
blend of
try. Parbhu and his advanced to the
experience, youth 
doubles partner finals last year and Keckley enter as and power at the will look to be the No. 36 doubles strong contenders
top ofour lineup. " 
pair in the nation. in the tournament Bass and Helgeson again. are not far behind, Bobby Bayliss The competitive taking the No. 47 Irish head coach season is only six doubles spot. weeks long, but it 
"We have a will be a busy and chance to have a intense time for great team this year," Bayliss the Irish, Bayliss said. He also said. "We have a great blend hopes the six tournaments in of experience, youth, and which the team will play will power at the top of our line­allow the players to work on up." their individual play while 
The combination of players establishing themselves as a already recognized as some of team to be reckoned with. the best in the country ­along with those just begin­Contact Deirdre Krasula at Seniors Ryan Keckley and Barry King await a serve against William and Mary Jan. 29. The Irish ning their collegiate tennis dkrasula@nd.edu won the match 7-0 in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 7, 2006 
Gioia 
continued from page 24 
rated the No. 2 kicker in last year's recruit class, is waiting in the wings. 
Gioia's leg strength didn't appear to be the problem against the Yellow Jackets. Neither attempt fell short. Either way, as soon as Saturday's game concluded. the coach set about building his kicker's confidence. 
"I think the most important thing is when you can sit there, kick an extra point, kick field goals in practice -you know you can kick them in the game," he said Sunday. "You've just got to be able to kick them under duress. That's just the way it is." 
Gioia has been in pressure situations before. 
In the spring game, Weis called a timeout before sending Gioia on the field to make the winning field goal. The 20­yarder sailed through the uprights as time expired, giv­ing Blue a 10-7 victory over the Gold. 
However, Gioia did miss attempts from 33 and 20 yards earlier in the game. 
One of the most difficult parts of being a kicker is the mental aspect of the game ­something Weis was quick to recognize. He praised Gioia's work in camp so far. and defended the problem as com­plex, both physically and men­tally. 
"No one's more discouraged than he is," Weis said Tuesday. "We have to go out and fix something. [But] it's never sim­ple -anytime you have a problem you don't just wave a magic wand and they're gone." 
Prior to the 2006 season, Gioia had started eight games as the kickoff specialist. He successfully completed his only 
field goal attempt  - a  29­ 
yarder against Stanford.  
Gioia,  a  graduate  of  

Valparaiso High School in Indiana, was a three-year all­state selection before coming to Notre Dame. As a senior, he received the Indiana Mr. Football award at kicker. He made 30 field goals in that time, on the same team as cur­rent Irish receiver Jeff Samardzija. 
But Weis is concerned that Gioia's confidence will not return until he makes a field goal in a game situation this season. 
"Until he puts one through the uprights from a distance ... like you and everyone else, [his thought] will be, 'will this one go through or not?'" 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

Belles 
continued from page 24 
team in both kills per game 
(2.15) and digs per game (3.25). 
Despite the impressive stats, the Belles still have the taste of a tough 3-1 loss to 
Olivet is reeling from their four straight losses to start the season, in part to their attempt to change systems under first year head coach John Miller. 
"It was a rough start record wise but any time you come in to a new program with a new coach and unfortunately with the tradition here at 
Hope in their mouths. The team struggled in large part due to minor faults, such as lapses in defen­
Schroeder-Biek. 
sive  focus,  as  
opposed  to  big  
mistakes  
according  to  

Saint Mary's will try to 
'They've got a new coach this year, a lot ofthe scouting reports are no good anymore. 
Julie Schroeder-Biek Belles head coach 
Olivet that hasn't been the strongest," Miller said. "You're going to have roadblocks and you're going to have to make adjustments." 
The Comets are also trying to focus on improv­ing their own play 

improve on these minor . instead of their upcoming 
details to win against Olivet, but had only Wednesday to prepare for the Comets. 
"They've got a new coach this year, a lot of the scouting reports are no good any more," Schroeder-Biek said. "One of their right hitters has been doing well but they started in a slump [losing their first four games] but I don't know about the quality of that tournament." 
On the other side of the net, match against Saint Mary's. 

''I'm just looking for us to play Olivet volleyball," Miller said. "We can't worry about what Julie [Schroeder-Biek] has down there or anybody else in the MIAA right now. We just have to focus on our­selves because we have a lot of areas on which we need to improve." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
STEAM ROLLER 

Karas 
continued from page 24 
[towards being the undisputed starter this weekend]," Waldrum said. "She had a really good game on Friday, so we gave her the start on Sunday and she played well again." 
Waldrum said both keepers performed well in practice the week before the USC and Santa Clara games, but the coaching staff decided to go with the upperclassman. 
"We felt like going with Lauren because she had a lit­tle more experience and played in big games for us last year," he said. 
Karas did not disappoint her coach, making nine saves against the Broncos in the bat­tle for No. 1. 
Despite Karas' performance, Waldrum said he won't rule out using Lysander a lot over the course of the season. 
"We're going to get Kelsey some playing time and proba­bly even some starts," he said. 
Karas and Lysander have been supportive of each other, Waldrum said, even while competing for playing time. lie said the freshman has not shown any signs of envy or frustration at not starting this past weekend. 
"She's handled it very well," Waldrum said. "I don't know exactly what her expectation level was when she came in, but coming in a freshman and pushing Lauren to start is exceptional. Typically a fresh­man wouldn't come in and push a junior goalkeeper." 
In her one start, Lysander made two saves and did not allow a goal. In three games this year, Karas has allowed a total of two goals and made 11 saves. 
The Irish face the Horned Frogs at 7 p.m. Friday in Fort Worth, Texas and the Mustangs at 1 p.m. Sunday in Dallas, Texas. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

Top, Lauren Karas punts the ball during a 3-1 victory over Santa Clara Sunday. Bottom, Karas sparks a drive Friday against Southern California. Both games were played at Alumni Field during the Inn at Saint Mary's ND Classic. 

---------. 
Thursday, September 7, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE

JOCULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 

WAI-SI:S. I WE \S (:!E\5. l-\l\l4t> 'E 1'-\ O"E~. 


CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 37 Aces over 63 Jam eights, in poker, 
64 Terrible twos, 1 Test sites as illustrated by e.g.
5 D.H.'s pride 17-& 20-Across 65 Souvenir shopand 54-&
9 Without stinting stock
60-Across 14 Paradise lost 41 Carpenter's 66 Financial 
predicament
curve cutter

15 "Rule, Britannia" composer 42 Born as DOWN
16 Frequent ticket 43 Like 90, compared to 85 1 Flips (through) 

office sight 44 San Juan de Ia 
2 Jane Eyre's 17 Highflying chargeindustry 3 Emerald or47 Stephen of 19 manual 
aquamarine
"Interview With 20 Goal for a the Vampire," 4 Senator from 112-pounder 1994 Maine 22 Lover of 49 Exotic vacation 5 Kind of wit Endymion, in 54 25th 6 Engage in myth anniversary gift fanfaronade 23 Klutz 59 Presley's 7 Mark of a ruler "Don't," not "I aTake care of
24 "_chic" 
Beg of You" 9 Water beds27 Like the Mau 60 Intensifies 

10 Have to 61 Go-between 
Maus 11 Burn rubber,32 "Ugh!" 

62 Indication of with "out" 33 Half a train? 46 Director/actor 54 One may be 35 Top dog serious intent Braff of "Garden heaved
12 Hook 34 Had in stock State"
13 Ouija board 55 Just think of it
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 36 Bryn_ 48 Nirvana attainer 
answer 
56 Contact, say -:::+-:+~::-! 18 On its way 
38 Morse bit 50 Sell for 57 Old Roman51 Olds model
well .,;.+.;,;+...,...;:+.:...~ 25 Some sausage 
52 Kidney-related
40 Come to terms 58 Benefit of
slices 53 "Don't you clergy?
45 Lexicographers' recognize this 26 Poison plant researches voice?!" 59 Easy mark
1=11-:-1-:-t-::+-:::" ...r:-1-=-1-::+~ 111111111-i-+::-~ 28 Dance-drama with measured chants For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
-..+:;::+:-:+::::+:::-! 29 1 0 j iao Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
..··(g~:t! _..t-=t-=trl:' 30 Rice who wrote 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
"Vittorio the Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000Vampire" past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
31 Meeting point Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young
-:::+:~+:;-i 
32 Hankering solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords.
....:...L..:...L.::..J...:::..J 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address ____________________________________ City ________ State _____ Zip______ 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
He's a 
to form four ordinary words. 
GYTIN 
[ 
J I 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
EDGUF 
± 

GOOLIG 
.,.
j 
THE: FING!:RPRINT

[J [ [] 
!:XP!:RT HAD A 
www.jumble.com 
CL-!:AN D!:SK B!:­CAUS!: HE= WAS-

tDEMUGS j Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. J CI I I 
A:[ I I I JAr "[ I I I I I I ]" 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: DOUSE STOIC INNING FERVIDYesterday's 
Answer: In the military, additions can create ­DIVISIONS 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Greg Rusedski, 32; Rosie Perez, 41; Jane Curtin, 58; Swoosie Kurtz, 61 
Happy Birthday: If you go full tilt and aren't lazy this year, you can do well. Ifyou procrastinate, you may even lose ground. You have the creativity and the talent but, if you don't do something with it, you won't prosper. Your numbers are 3, 6, 24, 35, 39, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Your emotions will be hard to control today but, if you feel passionate about something, speak up so the issues can be resolved. Be tactful and you can massage any problems that arise. *** TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Focus on what you can do--not what you can't. A chance to do something nice for someone will lead to advancement. Be authoritative if you want people to respect you, but don't be pushy. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You should be traveling for business or pleasure. You can learn something that will contribute to future projects. An image update will tum out to be fabulous. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may understand the dynamics of the relationships that are unfolding, but that won't help you much if you allow someone else to get the upper hand. Approach the situation with reverse psychology. 
** 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may feel uncertain about money matters or deals that are up in the air. Talk to someone you trust and get the information required to close the deal. Your friends and relatives are there to help you, so take what's being offered. * * * * VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can make a very strategic career move today. Don't settle for less when you know you are capable of doing far more. It's never too late to follow a dream. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will be ready to take on anyone and everyone today. You can convince others to back something you want to do. A talent can be developed and incorporated into what you want to do in the future. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): It's time to clear up loose ends. You can't move forward until you are satisfied that everything is in position. Your success will depend on how organized and prepared you are. * * * SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): What you have done in the past will be rewarded today. An involvement with someone from a totally different background -' will be enlightening and aid you in getting ahead. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Expect the unexpected and you will be prepared for what's to come. Personal relationships will be tense, especially if you are trying to get everyone to do things your way. * * AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Love and romance are looking good. Getting together with interesting people will tum into an opportunity to make some extra cash. You have plenty of talent and today is the day to develop it. **** * PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Everything will revolve around home, health and legaJ concerns. Take over if you want these issues resolved with the least amount of anguish. Making changes to your living arrangements will be to your benefit. 
*** 

Birthday Baby: You have persistent drive and concern with detail, coupled with intelligence and creativity. You can multitask and are outgoing and dynamic. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfun. eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

r------~~-------· 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, September 7, 2006 
page 24 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Balanced Belles squad tackles tough MIAA foe 
have had a strong start so far the strong leadership from the (27-30, 30-12, 30-19, 30-14) just its seniors, as sophomore
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
this year, thanks to their depth. seniors." and Huntington 3-1 (32-30, 30-middle block Cathy Kurczak Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's head coach Julie Saint Mary's captured the 20, 17-30, 30-26) and freshman outside hitter Schroeder-Biek said she is season-opening Thunder One of the senior leaders of Lorna Slupczynski have been Even after a tough loss to impressed with the way every­Invitational title this weekend, the team -Kristen Playko -consistent in the first five Hope College Tuesday, the one in the starting six has con­winning all four of its games in has helped the team immensely games of the season. Kuczak 
Belles are still a team to be tributed. the event. The Belles topped in their first five games. Playko reckoned with in the MIAA -"The neat thing about this conference foes Albion 3-2 (30-leads the Belles in kills-per­something they hope to prove team is we're very balanced," 16, 27-30, 17-30, 30-10, 15-6) game (3.38), total attacks (211) against Olivet tonight at 7 p.m. Schroeder-Biek said. ''I'm just and Tri-State 3-1 (30-20, 31-and digs (77). in the Angela Athletic Facility. looking for solid performance 33, 30-19, 30-28) on Friday. On But Saint Mary's has been 
The Belles (4-1, 0-1 MIAA) out of [the whole team] with Saturday, they beat Goshen 3-1 getting help from more than 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Keep away 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Ediror 
When four-year starter Erika Bohn graduated last spring, Notre Dame needed to find a new goalkeeper. 
After an injury to senior Nikki Westfall, junior Lauren Karas and freshman Kelsey Lysander competed during pre-season workouts for the starting keeper job. Irish coach Randy Waldrum alter­nated the two in Notre Dame's season-opening games against Iowa State and Ole Miss, but started Karas in Irish victories over then-No. 19 USC and then-No. 1 Santa Clara last weekend. 
Karas allowed just one goal in the two games. 
While Waldrum said he has­n't declared Karas the full time starter just yet, the junior will start this weekend against TCU and SMU on the road. 
"[Karas] went a long way 
see KARAS/page 22 


FOOTBALL 
Weis not losing confidence in Gioia 
has been crucial to the offense, leading the team with a .352 attack percentage while Slupczynski ranks third on the 
see BELLES/page 22 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Senior trio gives Irish 
•

experience 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
Notre Dame may only be a 
week into practice, but the 
team already looks strong. 
The Irish return their top 
five starters for the 2006-07 
season -senior captain 
Stephen Bass, junior Sheeva 
Parbhu, sophomore Brett 
Helgeson, senior Ryan Keckley 
and senior Barry King. 
"Our top returning starters 
look great," Notre Dame coach 
Bobby Bayliss said. "We are 
playing at a high level." · With a strong showing at the 
top of the lineup, the team will 
look to solidify and strengthen 
the lower spots on the team, 
Bayliss said. Returning role 
players, including senior 
Irackli Akhvlediani, are likely 
to be strong contenders to 
improve the bottom of the 
lineup. 
The addition of five fresh­
men to the Irish is likely to 
create competition for playing 
time as well, Bayliss said. 
And the addition of assistant 
coach Ryan Sachire, Bayliss 
said, has been a spark plug 
for the team. 
Sachire, a 2000 Notre Dame 
graduate, joins the coaching 
staff after serving as assistant 
coach at Baylor University 
during the 2005-06 season 
and playing in professional 
circuits before that. 
"The biggest influence [on the team] has been the tremendous and positive impact [Sachire [ has had on the team," Bayliss said. "lie has an infectious enthusiasm that has gotten everyone excited." 
The team's competitive 
see VETERANS/page 21 

By KATE GALES Associate Sports Ediror 
The Georgia Tech game did­n't come down to a missed field goal -thankfully. 
Because if it did, Notre Dame kicker Carl Gioia would have had more questions to answer than his already heavy load this week. In his first game as starter, Gioia missed attempts from 42 yards and 36 yards. 
But coach Charlie Weis isn't giving up on him yet. ''I'm not throwing in the towel on anyone," Weis said 
Sunday. "I mean, it's the first game. You got jitters. That's not making excuses -the team's still counting on him making them, and he knows the team's counting on him." 
Gioia only kicked field goals and PATs against Georgia Tech -after D.J. Fitzpatrick han­dled all kicking and punting duties last season. Weis split the jobs this year, with Geoff Price taking over punting duties and Bobby Renkes working as the kickoff man. Freshman Ryan Burkhart, 
see GIOWpage 22 



MlB 
SPORT
MEN'S GOLF 
SMC SOCCER 
MlB
NFL 
LLI

c.:» Senior co-captains 
Marlins rookie Anibel 
The NFL and the NFL 

Yankees outfielder 
Mets 4, 

Albion 2,
z Cole Isban and Adam 
Sanchez throws a no-
Players Association dis-

Hideki Matsui draws 
Braves 1

Saint Mary's 1 
hitter in his 13th start 
large crowds to AA
Gifford lead the Irish 
cuss drug testing

The Belles fall at the
::5 

with a 2-0 win over the
and remain close -on 
improvements. 

Trenton for his first 
Mets 8, 

hands of the Britons in a 
c:s 

Diamondbacks.
and off the links. 
rehab appearance. 
Braves 0

controversial game. 
c:c 

page 16 
page 14

page 18 
page 17

page 21 
page 21
!; 
-·· 






