
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 40: ISSUE 99 THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2006 

AllianceND still seeks club status 
Group ready to work together with Council 
By MARY KATE MALONE A"i't.llll News Editor 
I.Padnrs of' tiH' unrm~ognizPd gay and lesbian studnnt group AlliancnNI> an~ lwartnrwd by the n•cPnt rnstructuring and rnnam­ing of' tlw Univnrsity Standing CommiiUH• on (;ay and I.Psbian Sttuhmt NPnds. but said thny will not hack down from pursuing dub status -a privilegl' the Ollke of Student Activities has denied in rPrnnt years. 
AlliarH·nNI> and tlw newly­nanwd Cow Council on Cay and l.esbian Student Nnmls have simi­lar goals -both snnk to mont tlw rwods of' Notm Damn's gay and lesbian studonts -but their moans of' achieving those nnds arn quito dillimmt. 
Univnrsity of'f'ieials said the recent ehangns madn to the com­mitten do not nncessarily imply tlw Oflicn of Student Activil.ies will reeognizn AlliancnND when it applies fhr dub status this spring. 
"This is not lelubl rneognition, it really isn't," said Assistant Viee President f'or Student Affairs Sister Mary Louisn Cude. "I don't know if' it's a stop fill'ward toward rPeognition or not, but it's eert.ain­ly a step fiu·ward toward better support fi>r gay and lnsbian stu­denl<>." 
Gudo has snrvnd as chair or the Committne since the fi.tll of 199H. She hopes the restructuring will lead to inernased communication among difl'erent gay and lesbian student groups-like N!ianceND, Outreach and Feminist Voice ­whkh will all be represented on 
sec ALLIANCE/page 3 

Baron address, club funding tnark meeting 
Senators reject CCC's proposed amendntent 
By KAREN LANGLEY Assistant News Editor 
Student Senate was marked by debate and controversy Wednesday, as senators shot down Club Coordination Council president Beth O'Shaughrwssy's plea for an amendnwnt to increase the percnntage of funds available to dubs while decrnas­ing funds given to other Studnnt Union organizations. 
Under the proposed amend­ment, clubs would roeeive 36.75 percent of available funds, as opposed to the current 33 per­cent allocation. Funds distrib­uted among tho remaining Student Union organizations 
see SENATE/page 8 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
SMChosts diversity conference 
Event aims to foster leadership potentia/ 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saim Mary's Editor 
Long a buzzword on campus, diversity will orH:e again lw the central topie of discussion at Saint Mary's tonight as the Student Diversity Board's (SDB) inaugural Divorsn Studnnts Leadership Conference (DSLC) gets underway at H p.m. with live musical and dane11 pnrformanens in ()'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Tlw confermu:•~ will continue Friday with a series of loadnrship workshops and divnrsity-relatml loduros targeted at high school and college studcmts. 
The eonf'ernnco is intendnd to f'ost.or loadorship potnntial and to prepare partidpants to function in' a divnrse environment. eonfi~r­enco chair Claradith l.andrv said. 
"We hope ovory partidJJant is progrnssive," Landry said. "Wc~ want thmn to eonw to the eonfer­cmee J>Prhaps having sonw kind or undcwlying prnjudic~o. not oven liming eonsdous of' itl ... but tlwn hopPI'ully as you go through each workshop you loam sonwt.hing about yourself', you IParn somP­thing about. your mmmunity and about sodety and about. dilli~rPnt culturos." 
The nHtrq ue11 JWrfornwr at tonight's entertainmont portion of' tho twent is Atlanta-basl'd rappPr Eddie "Double E" Clark. who appnarnd on the UI'N show "Thn Hoad to Stardom with Missy Elliot." othnr acts indudn Troop ND, Bailn Forklorieo, tlw NDISMC Irish Dance Tnam and Notrn Damn senior .lason Laws' 2j I' rod uctions. 
sec SDM/page 4 




Student government invites academic freedom discourse 

By KATHLEEN McDONNELL 
News Writer 
In preparation for University Prnsident Father .John Jenkins' impending visit to the Student Senate, student govnrnment hosted a discussion on issues surrounding academic freedom Wndnesday night. 
The event attracted approxi­matoly 15 students to the Coleman-Morse lounge in a dis­cussion intended by student government as a way to involve as many student opinions on this issue as possible beforn il'i prosentation to Jenkins Friday. In his Jan. 24 speech to stu­dents, Jenkins ealled for the entire student body's eonsidera­lion of issues concerning aca­demic freodom. 
"We've already solicited inf()r­mation from oac.h dorm through dorm senators, and this discus­sion tonight is to indude those whose opinions have not yet boon heard," said senior Matt Walsh, chairman of' the Senate's University Affair Committee. "Father Jenkins wants to hear how the student body feels." 
An e-mail sent to Notre Dame students by student government said the event called for the indusion of randomly-selected small groups to ensure a diverse spectrum of student views was represented. · Senators said previous dorm­sponsored debates greatly eon-
see FREEDOM/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, March 2, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Taking a bite out of oral cri111e 
People bite people. It's a fact, folks. 
Human-to-human biting permeates all realms of society, from domestic dis­putes to Hollywood cinema to profes­sional boxing -listing all instances would be a mouth­ful -the problem Katie Perry goes wholly unno­and Joe ticed by the mass­
Piarulli 
es. 
On Wednesday, the White Plains, News Writers New York man who gnawed off a por­tion of his girlfriend's cheek -that's a facial cheek, you crazy kids -was sen­tenced to 15 years in prison after his distraught lover put forth a chilling tes­timony in court. 
He just bit off more than he could chew. 
"When I was bitten and my flesh was spat at me, more than my face was damaged," she told members of the jury. 
Indeed, the emotional trauma associ­ated with oral assaults is sometimes deeper than the wound itself. Victims of biting incidents arc often forever changed by the event, refusing the kiss of a potential mate, or worse, the nec­essary mouth-to-mouth resuscitation during a time of emergency. 
The 1975 thriller "Jaws" instilled a deep-seeded fear in the general public of shark bites. Babies-infested rac­coons, dogs, mosquitoes -these are all things people fear will bite them. Add to that list people. 
Mike Tyson -biter. 
Hannibal Lecter -biter. 
University President Father John Jenkins-probably not a biter. 
Forget what your mother told you at your third grad!~ Halloween party. Vampires, in one form or another, exist. And they are chomping at the bit to get a piece of you. 
The pervasiveness of human biting might surprise you. The Web site emedicinehealth.com devotes an entire section to such injuries. 
"A human bite is generally obvious, but on occasion the victim is unaware -for example, the bite occurred while the victim was drunk -or reluctant to tell others," a Web site description said. 
E-medicine Health added that some bites might not be easy to classify as intentional because "there is not a con­scious decision on the part of the biter." 
No kidding. 
The next time you are getting a hick­ey from a semi-conscious SMC chick at TC, realize that you are a skin-break away from becoming a victim to this brutal and tragic trend. 
Just remember, you have a better chance of being bitten by two different people over· the course of 24 hours than winning the lottery. 
So the next time you're drooling over possible Powerball winnings, keep in mind that someone could be drooling over you. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd. edu and Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
In the March I issue ofThe Observer, a news article misquoted business professor Margot O'Brien as stat­ing the Supreme Court struck down a case concerning military recruitment. Although the federal appellate court held that the statute was unconstitutional, the Supreme Court has yet to issue such a ruling. The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WOULD YOU WANT TO BE AN RA? 







Fernando Gandara  Heather Frost  Jamie McGinnis  Katie Smith  Mark Quaresima  
senior Sorin  sophomore Pasquerilla West  freshman Dillon  sophomore Lyons  freshman Stanford  
"I think I would've been kicked out as an RA."  ''Nah, too much."  "Not really, too much responsibility. "  "Yes, although being an RA in Lyons won't be as awesome without Sr. Sue. "  "No ... I think Honey is doing a great job in Stanford. "  


SOPHIA BALLONffhe Observer 
Campus Labor Action Project (CLAP) members pass out fliers and request student signatures for a petition, "Living Wage for All Campus Workers," outside of North Dining Hall Wednesday. 
OFFBEAT 
Republican Sen. Hal Bunderson said the slogan no longer has resonance for a state whose popula­tion and commerce have undergone a seismic shift in the 46 years since the motto was first staR1ped on Idaho's license plates. 
"Other than as a con­sumer, the majority of people in Idaho have no connection to 'Famous Potatoes,"' said Bund­erson, whose potato pro­posal will be heard by a state transportation panel today. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
'Brown Sugar' off the menu in China 
BEIJING -The Rolling Stones will likely follow the beat of China's censors when they offer mainland fans some long-awaited satisfaction with an April concert, promoters said Tuesday. 
The veteran British group, who had two shows in China canceled in spring 2003 because of the SAHS epidemic, would make its mainland debut in Shanghai on April 8 as part of its "A Bigger Bang" tour, Emma Entertainment said on its Web site (www.emma.cn). 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a: 
w 


:2: 
!:;: 3:: w 
..... 
Even before their April 2003 concerts w.ere scut­tled, the Stones had run afoul of China's culture commissars. 
This time around, the band was ready to steer clear of trouble, a compa­ny employee said Tuesday. 
Idaho's image becomes a hot potato 
SALMON, Idaho -A state lawmaker wants to peel Idaho's standard license plate of the legend "Famous Potatoes" in a battle over whether the lowly spud should symbol­ize a state whose major export is high technology. 
~ 
c:( (.) 


0 
HIGH 40 HIGH 27 HIGH 35 HIGH 36
...I LOW 22 LOW 19 LOW 25 LOW 22 IN BRIEF 
The Saint Mary's Book Club will meet today at 6:30 p.m. in the Student Center Lounge to discuss "The Handmaid's Tale" by Margaret Atwood. The book is available in the bookstore. 
The opening meeting of the Diverse Student Leadership Conference will take place in ()'Laughlin Auditorium today at 8p.m. 
AcoustiCafe will take place at 10 p.m. today in the LaFortune basement. 
SMC senior Ashley Peltier will present her senior comprehen­sive play "Angel: A Nightmare in Two Acts" Friday at 7:30p.m. in the Little Theater in Moreau Hall. The play is free and open to the public. 
The Irish men's basketball team will bid farewell to seniors Saturday, when the team squares off with DePaul in its final home game of the 2005­2006 season. lip-off is at 4 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
The 2nd annual Holy Cross Mission Lecture, 'The Word of God is not Chained: Images for Mission in Cultures," will be pre­sented Sunday at 7:15 p.m. in the Moreau Seminary Auditorium. 
John Carr, Director of the Department of Social Develo­pment & World Peace, will speak on "Political Responsibility and Religion: Faithful Citizenship in the 2006 Elections" on Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Eck Visitors Center Auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


HIGH 36 HIGH 33 LOW 29 LOW 25 
Atlanta 70 I 53 Boston 33 I 22 Chicago 44 I 36 Denver 57 I 33 Houston 80 I 60 Los Angeles 65 I 47 Minneapolis 31 I 24 New York 40 I 30 Philadelphia 45 I 27 Phoenix 80 I 59 Seattle 47 I 38 St. Louis 66 I 44 Tampa 72 I 47 Washington 48 I 30 
Thursday, March 2, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Hovvard Hall continues yearly tradition today 
By PETER NINNEMAN 
News Writer 
lloward llall eontinu11s a tradi­tion today with its sixth annual horw marrow drivn -an 11v11nt groumh~d in beginnings, which still rnsonatn in the lwart of tlw dorm's residenL-;. 
Thn nvnnt hogan in 2000 when 2003 Notrn Danw graduate Anne (;urucharri learrwd lwr l~tthnr had b1~1m diagnosed with myelodysplas­tic syndrome -a rare form of leuknmia-and would need a bonn marrow transplant. Gurw:harri was inspired by a drivn lwld by Zahm llall the year bnforn, and set out to organizn lwr own. 
Thn drive -which will take plaen from S a.m. until R p.m. today in the Sorin and Dooley rooms on the first floor of Lafilrtunn -camn through for tho Gururharri lamily, as an nligible donor was found within a few months. The trans­plant allowml Anne's l'athnr to con­tinue his battle with cancer long nnough to live to son his daughtnr's graduation the following ynar. 
With the (;urucharri's story in mind, lloward eontinund to hold tho drivll. Oncn again, dorm resi­denL-; arn sneking voluntners from thn Notre Damn community for today's nvnnt. 
In past drives, multiple student donors likn the onn who help11d the Curudmrri family havn been con­tacted fi1r l'urtlwr tnsting. 
Co-commissionnr Graee .Shnn said studnnL-; have misconceptions about what tho drivn really involves. 
"I've bmm trying to tell people to register. and they think they're going to have to actually give bone marrow in LaFortune," she said. "There's a simple blood test and some papnrwork. You give less than you would in a blood trans­plant." 
The donor's information is nnternd into a computerized reg­istry maintained by the National Marrow Donor Program. The data­base contains about four million possible donors, and allows people in need of a transplant to lind a 1:ompatible donor, Shen said. 
The !went aims to recruit people who are not already registered. Donors who have already regis­ten~d have their name kept in the rogistry until they are 61. 
Shon said about 20 people have signed up already, but approxi­matnly 300 donors are expected. I toward will cover the cost of regis­tration for all students. 
Shen said organizers e-mailed f'rnshmen and sophomores about the drive, as well as minority stu­dents. Compatibility matches are of'ton eonsistnnt with shared ethnic baekgrounds, she said, andminority palients, who are underropresent­ed in the national registry. 
"I think it's really imperative," shn said. "There's a severe short­age lespeeially for minorities in need of transplants!. I'm glad lloward has this event that allows studenL-; to got involved." 
Contact Peter Ninneman at pninnema@nd.edu 
Alliance 
continued from page 1 
the Council, she said. 
"While there is absolutely no talk -at least out of the admin­istration -about IAllianeeNDI dub recognition, ouce you get people talking to each other and communicating, it's hard to know exactly what will happen," Gude said. "Our gay community will be more ell'eetive with the input of all these groups finally being able to talk to each other -having structure in whieh they can eommunicate." 
The University announced the changes Feb. 24. Instead of six student membflrs, the ~,rroup will now have eight -one of whom will bfl a student eo-chair. Four administrators will also sit on the Council. 
Gude said the restructuring will allow for AllianceND to per­haps se1~k funding from the Council for eertain events. 
"What we think will happen is that Alliance might be able to plug in some of its activities and get support from the Core Council depending on what these activities am -they must be within the parameters of Catholic teaching," Gude said. 
But AllianceND member Curtis Leighton said this restric­tion on the Core Council intensi­fies the need fi>r a student group like AllianceND to be granted dub recognition -as well as access to money for staging events that the Core Council would not be allowed to sup­port. 
"I worry that the Standing Committee ... ean't have the same impact because they're hindered by 'acadomic freedom' or any of those types of things," Leighton said. 

Still, the ehange in composi­tion is no doubt an improvement on the current Council setup, said Leighton -who is also the co-chair of Outreach. 
"For now at least, the Standing Committee doesn't provide a lot of support or advo­cacy for gay students on earn­pus," he said. "I hope the new Core Council will do some of that by expanding the member­ship and having some connec­tion with student organizations." 
AllianceND eo-coordinator Anna Gomberg said she fears the recent steps might show that the Univmsity feels the Core Council will be adequate enough to address gay and lesbian stu­dent needs -and that groups like AllianceND do not need recognition. She insists the groups are very different. 
"Frankly, AllianceND is more concerned with student needs than alnl !administrative! stu­dent group llike the Core Council!," she said. "The student group is going to bn different than an administrative body lbecausel it is normalized, it's the same as all student groups ... I don't think anything that the Standing Committee would do or restrict would make that dir­t'erent." 
AllianeeND has applied ror and been denied club status eaeh or the last two years. According to a March 22, 2005 article in The Observer, similar proposals have been denied nine times in the last 10 years, with no gay and lesbian student group suecnssfully securing olli­cial status. 
AlllianeeND's members spon­sor a "Coming Out" doset in the !'all, create and distribute orange "Gay? Fin11 by Me" T­shirLc;; and often makn bold pub­lie statement-; to advance thnir cause. 
Tho Council, howev11r, is an arm of the University and advis­es Vice President or Student All'airs Father Mark Poorman on gay and lesbian student nends. 
Despite the diiTerenees, AllianceND of'l'ic11r Aine Hichards is optimistic the meas­ures are a step in the right direction l(>r both !,'Toups. 
"It just gives me a lot or hope because I think the administra­tion is trying to expand its understanding of the studnnts' needs," Hiehards said. "I think Alliance is one of those needs, and hopefully lthe Univ11rsityl will come to that realization Ito rncognize us a-; a dubI ... if we continue to do what wn'rn doing -doing our work and keep applying ll(>r dub status! hope­fully we'll bn suecessrui." 
Gomberg said she wasn't sure what the mission of thn new Council will be, but she believes it has potential to improve eom­munieation between gay and lesbian groups on campus. 
"As things come together· more and the communication increas11s aeross all th11s1j groups, I think that's generally a very good thing -that they're integrating these groups and encompassing a broader spec­trum is a really good thing," Gomberg said. 
"We're going to have to wait and see what it ends up looking like ... allowing for morn strue­turn and allowing standing mm­mittne to involve morn peopln is a step in the right dimction." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone@nd.edu 
RUJ~_Now! 
MBGR-60210 BAUG·30210 

This one-credit-hour course will explore issues, ideas and trends likely to affect business and society over the next decade. A series of separate lectures on selected Friday mornings will feature a wide range of experts. business.nd.edu/tenyearshence 
SeN~ /2eNoeufwM 
Erik Peterson, Senior Vice F)resident, The Center for-.Strategic and International Studies 

Jo~~;:.~ ~1~~~ q~6d~ 
7orAA P& ~ 7orAA 7~ 
Johr1 Petersen, President, Tr1e Ariington Institute 
po··rJ,J~~c· go·~~r::~ ~~sh7~1 ·H
·fF") b:~l.t'E~t3LJ~ 0~ 
r.... ames ..Jurran, ean, .olms ..._ c oo o u. 1c, ea,t,lH. o mory ntverstLy 
7~ 7~o~ ~ 7~-ilv~~~~~ ~~cuuts~ 
Harry Attndge. M.A., F h.D., Dean, Yae Untversttv Dtvtnrty '-J(_,hool 
~ · · business. nd.edu/tenyearshence 
"Ten Years Hence" is listed as BAUG-3021 0 and MBGR-6021 0, and is open to all Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate students, and Saint Mary's students. There are no prerequisites to enroll. See your academic advisor or your department chair for additional detail. You are expected to attend all lectures and be prepared to engage speakers. No unexcused absences. This is a "Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory" course. This course requires no textbook purchases, examinations or term papers. Use an add form to register; registration is not available online. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 2, 2006 
women's hall performance of the eleeted viee president of SOB. Mary's Board of Governance and 
Shortly thereafter, Landry was Walgreen's, $1,500 from Saint "Vagina Monologues" -in a


Freedo01SDM 
fashion similar to that of Keenan's Hevue or Dillon's Pep After bouncing ideas off Johnson, $3,000 from the Center for 

president of the Latina group La Women in Intereultural 
continued from page 1 Fuerza, she decided to push for­Leadership (CWIL) to help fund 
continued from page 1 
Rally -would be deemed Friday's workshop titles include ward with the idea under the the eonference. 
tributed to the low turnout, acceptable by the University. "The Co-optation of the 'N' auspices of SOB. The Saint Mary's Admissions 
which made the single diseus­Those two events in particular, Word," "Taking Point: A Landry and Johnson met every Office, one of the conference co­
sion group appropriate. the Keenan Revue and the Dillon Leadership Approach for Those Saturday during spring 2005 to sponsors, has been eontinuously 
Armed with a handout eon­Pep Rally, were in the context of Who Are or Shortly Will Be in discuss the goals and eontents of involved in the planning of the 
taining number of intended one underlying issue of academ­Leadership Positions" and the eonference. In the fall, they eonference. Last semester, Viee 
questions, the group jumped into ic freedom -that of sexuality "Implementing Sustained assembled a eommittee of 22 President for Enrollment 
diseussion. While strong view­here at Notre Dame. Some stu­Dialogue on a College Campus: members. Management Dan Meyer asked 
points on both sides of tl1e issue dents said such events portray The Process, Obstacles and Johnson also attended a lead­members of SOB to help the 
were expressed, students women in a less than desirable Benefits." Vice President and ership conference -the Cool College in its efl"ort to diversify 
remained respectful and strove fashion, but as dorm events it is Dean of Faculty Pat White will Idealist Conference in Berkeley, the student body by extending 
to find common ground rather understood that the jabs are give a speech at the closing Calif. -in Mareh 2005, and the itself to minority applieants, 
than flare up on points of con­lighthearted ones. Reception at 6:30 p.m. pair used their trips to help Landry said. The DSLC was a 
tention. '"The Vagina Monologues' did Conference organizers have design a framework for the good opportunity for that out­
One issue up for debate was not set out to present a holistic been collecting pre-registration DSLC. reach, she said, and organizers 
whether Notre Dame can be sense of sexuality," senior Jackie forms all week, but students can · "We kind of pooled all our met with Meyer every week to 
both a Catholic institution and a Clark said. "Just like in 'Harry sign up from 1 to 4 p.m. today in experienees together from going tailor eertain workshops to high 
top-20 university. While one stu­Potter' with Lord Voldemort, you the foyer of the Student Center, to different kinds of conferences, school students. 
dent used Harvard as an exam­have power over something if co-ehair Angeline Johnson said. and we discussed what were the The eonference is proof that 
ple of the secularization of a reli­you ean name it -that is the The workshops are also free, she best workshops that we went to Saint Mary's is doing more than 
giously-afflliated school at the point of the play." said. and what had the greatest just sitting back and talking 
top of national standings, many Other students said the play Co-chair Kimberly I lodges said impaet on all of us," Johnson about diversity, Landry said. 
students argued that Notre objectifies women and presents professors, particularly those in said. "We want them to see that 
Dame is a top 20 university sexuality in ways wholly opposed the social work department, The result was a conferenee Saint Mary's is a welcoming envi­
because of its Catholicism. to all for which Notre Dame have been supportive of the con­that intends to inspire student ronment and that this is a priori­
Furthermore, they said the con­stands. ferenee. Some are taking their leadership and prepare partiei­ty for us," Johnson said. 
cept of high academic quality The group stood in relative elasses to a workshop while oth­pants for a world of people from While other SOB events, such 
and a high moral standard are agreement over a middle-ground ers are offering extra eredit to mixed eultural, religious and as the fall SOB Bonfire and dis­
not at all in contention. suggestion ofl'ered by junior Jack those students who attend on eeonomie baekgrounds. eussion forums, have been sue­
"Why is it a question of either Calcutt, who said the University their own. "Part of this is preparing peo­eessful, they tend to attract the 
or? We can be both," sophomore should both foster the growth of "Having the faculty support is ple to go into a world that is same audience of already-eon­
John Trippi said. a Catholic eulture and focus on very, very important beeause if more diverse than Saint Mary's cerned students, Hodges said. 
Trippi said a problem arises if tackling important issues ­we have Pat White ... on board and preparing them to work in She said she hopes this confer­
Notre Dame becomes too exclu­especially those of homosexuality you ean pretty much expect to that world," Johnson said. "So ence will draw individuals who 
sive in its definition of Catholie and female sexuality -at Notre have all of the faculty with us," we did want a wide range of might not eonsider diversity a big 
character or if line-drawing is Dame. • Hodges said. work shops," Johnson said. issue. 
taken too far. "For many onlookers, being The idea of a diversity eonfer­She also wanted to tap on­Despite the past few heetic 
"If we really want to adhere to associated with Notre Dame is enee at Saint Mary's was born a eampus resourees in organizing weeks, Hodges said she is 
Catholic dogma in all areas of being associated with year ago after Landry and the workshops, Johnson said, so already thinking about confer­
the University, there will be a Catholicism," he said. "We have Hodges attended the South several professors and staff ence plans for next year. 
great deal of censoring," he said. a lot to contribute to our Catholic Western Blaek Student members are among the presen­Landry said she hopes this 
"[The Student Union Board], for culture because Notre Dame is a Leadership Conferencrl at Texas ters. year's eonferenee sets a prece­
instance, showed 'Saw II,' The. pretty unique place. There are A&M University, Landry said. "Considering our budget and dent at the College. 
40 Year Old Virgin' and many people who want us to Inspired by the leaders they the amazing professors we have "We want to leave a living 
'Jarhead' this year-all of choose one path or the other, to met, the pair intended to launeh at this school, we [deeided we] legacy," she said. "We want to 
which are completely against choose a side. a similar event at Saint Mary's as might as well look inward and make sure Saint Mary's adopts 
Catholie morality." ''I'd like to see what events board members of thB Sisters of try and fmd professors who have this ... [and just] takes ownership 
The question of line-drawing Jenkins feels would foster Nefertiti, a eampus dub. hosted workshops or who have of it and that this is something 
was a point of contention for the Catholic charactnr -espeeially "We wanted to do it under that some kind of interest or expertise they are proud of ... and will 
group. With residenee halls so in light of these critical issues ­particular club, but we realized in something we want to share continue ·on for years," Landry 
crucial to eampus life, students and that way we could eome to that it would be too much of an with all these students," she said. said. 
questioned the administrative some sort of eonsensus." event or too big of a responsibili­While SOB is spending $3,000 
assertion that hall events can be ty to handle with four people in a from its own aceount, the elub Contact Megan O'Neil at 
kept free from this debate. Contact Kathleen McDonnell elub," Landry said. also received $1,500 from onei0907@nd.edu 
A few students wondered if a at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 





Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
• 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 

• 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

• 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
John Dillon, Campus Min istry, 1-7163 

• 
Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

• 
Ann E. Kleva, Health Services, 1-8286 



South Bend Co_mmunity Resources: 
• 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

• 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 







ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, March 2, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE ()ssERVER'S WJRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

El Salvador signs free trade pact 
SAN S/\I.V/\l)(lH -El Salvador on Wn d rwsd ay lw <~a rn n t hn first CentraI ;\rrwrkan nation to join a regional free trade agrnnrrwnt with tlw United Statns. 
l'rnsidnnt Tony Sae11 inaugurated the pad in a cnrnrnony at a food exporting eompany. 
But about :UJOO pnopln marched nlsnwhoro in tlw capital, San Salvador, to protest the agrnnmPn t. which thny say will hurt local farnwrs, strnnt vnndors and organiznd labor rarf'd with cornpntition from dwapnr goods or with t.ightor rnstri<:tions on salns of goods. 
"J<rom this day on wn can count on a rnueh larg<~r rnarknt for our nxportod products and snrvin~s." Saca said. liP prndietnd more jobs and bnttnr living conditions for Salvadorans. 
Nigerian militants release hostages 
W/\BBI -Militant.s rnlnased six f(wnign oil worknrs, induding a diabotie Toxan celebrat­ing his h1Jth birthday Wndrwsday, taken cap­tivn last month to prnss lighters' dnmands for a grnatnr sharn of" oil revenues generatnd in this rostivn southnrn state. 
But throe ollwr hostages -two /\mnrieans and a Briton -worn kopt by militants from tlw Movement for tho Emancipation of the Niger l>nlta. ;\ militant spokesman said all "low-valun" hostagos takon Fob. 18 had bonn frnnd. 
Thosn rdnas<ld Wmlnnsday indudnd Macon llawkins of Kosdusko, Texas; two Egyptians; two Thais; and a Filipino. They worn taken to thn ol"liens of Jamos lbori, governor of the I>nita Statn. 
Militants handed llawkins to surprised jour­nalists visiting tho lighters in the creeks and waterways of the oil-rich Niger Delta. Tho rllportors took tho cairn but b!ldragglnd work­Pr to tho Nigerian military. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Woman denies caging her children 
NOHW/\LK. Ohio -The woman accused ol' loeking sornn of lwr ll adopted, spHeial­rwnds childnm in cages cried on the witness stand Wndnesday as she denied that she and lwr husband worn erunl to his biological chil­dren or that ho touelwd a daughtor inappro­priately. 
Sharon and Michael GntvPlle have pleaded not guilty to snvoral charges, induding child endangernwnt, in a separate criminal caso. 
Pros!leutors accuse the couple of locking tho adoptod children in cages to discipline Uwm, and tlwy want Huron County to takn perrnarwnt <~ustody of tho youngsters, who have been in fostnr earn since the endosml hmls worn discovor<~d last fall. 

Lawmakers hold mine safety hearing 
WASil I N<;TON -llouso lawmakers pross!ld rnining industry and government ortieials on Wmlnosday to explain why min­ors arn going without lifo-saving teehnology following a string of accidents that havo killed 24 U.S. miners so far this year. 
Hop. Charlie Norwood, H-Ga., asked ofli­<~ials with the agency that ovnrsons mine safety why vir.tims of tho .Jan. 2 acddont at WPsl Virginia's Sago mine were unable to communicatn with rescuHrs abovn ground. 
"Wn sit right down thoro in llouston and wo talk with astronauts on tho moon," said Norwood, who ehairml tlw hearing before an l·:dueation and tho Workforce subcommittee. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Jurors deliberate in murder case 
BOONVILLE -.Jurors deliberated into Wednesday night as they spont a second day weighing tho easn against a lill'!ner state trooper aceused of' killing his wife and two childrnn. 
Tho jury, whkh listtmod to six weeks of testi­mony that introduced nnw evidence against David Camm in his second murder trial, also mot li1r 12 hours Tuesday. 
"I think it's good that the jury is wally serious about the evidnnee," said Camm's undo. 

Tape: Bush warned about Katrina 

Video shows President, Chertoff clearly told that storm could breach levees 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -In dra­matic and sometimes ago­nizing t<~rms, fedoral disas­ter officials warned President Bush and his homeland security ehief befilrn Hurricane Katrina struck that the storm could breach Ievens, put lives at risk in Nnw Orleans' Supnrdonw and overwhnlm rnscuers, according to conli­dnntial video footage. 
Bush didn't ask a single question during tho final briefing before Katrina struck on Aug. 29, but hn assured soon-to-be-battered state ollieials: "We are fully prepared." 
Tho tiJOtage -along with seven days of transcripts of briefings obtained by The ;\ssoeiatod Press -show in excruciating detail that while federal oflieials antici­pated the tragedy that unfolded in New Orleans and elsewhere along the Gulf Coast, they were fatally slow to realize they had not mustered enough resources to deal with the unprece­dented disaster. 
Linked by secure video, Bush expressed a confi-· denee on Aug. 28 that stark­ly contrasted with the dire warnings his disaster chief and numerous federal, state and local ollieials provided during the four days before tho storm. "I hope people don't draw Knocke said. "We actively Aug. 25-:~ 1 eonllieL'i with the 
;\ top hurricane expert eondusions from the presi­participated in the lessons­defenses that federal, stat<1 voiced "grave concerns" dent getting a single brief­teamed review and we eon­and loeal officials havn about the levees and then­ing," presidential tinue to participate in the made in trying to dnl"leet Federal Ernergeney spokesman Trent Dully said, Senate's review and are blame and minimize thn Management Agency chief eiting a variety of orders working with them on their political fallout from tlw Miehael Brown told the and disaster declarations recommendation." failed Katrina response: president and Homeland Bush signed before the New Orleans Mayor Hay llomnland Seeurity oiTi­Security Secretary Michael storm made landfall. "He Nagin, a critic of tho admin­eials have said the "fog of Chertotl' that he feared there reeeived multiple briefings istration's Katrina response, war" blindnd them early on weren't enough disaster from multiple oflieials, and had a different take after to thn magnitudo or the dis­teams to help evacuees at he was completely engaged watching the footage aster. But the vid<w and the Superdome. at all times." Wednesday afternoon from transcripts show Ji1dnral and 
''I'm concerned about ... llomeland Security an AP reporter's camera. loeal officials discussed their ability to respond to a spokesman Huss Knocke "I have kind a sinking fenl­threats dearly, rnviewNI catastrophe within a catas­said his department would ing in my gut right now," long-made plans and undnr­trophe," Brown told his not release the full set of Nagin said. "I was listening stood Katrina would wroak bosses the afternoon before videotaped briefings, saying to what people were saying devastation of historic pro­Katrina made landfall. most transcripts -though -they didn't know, so portions. 'Tm sun~ it will be 
The White Ilouse and not the videotapes -from therefore it was an issue of tho top I 0 or 15 whnn all is llorneland Security the sessions were provided a learning eurvo. You know, said and done," National Department urged the pub­to congressional investiga­from this tape it looks like llurricane Cnntnr's Max lic Wednesday not to read tors months ago. everybody was fully aware." Mayfinld warned the day too much into the video "There's nothing nPw or Some of the footage and Katrina lashed the Gulf footage. insightful on these tapes," transcripts from briefings Coast. 

CUBA 

Migrants hope to return to the U.S. 
to leave the island. while thosn stopped at sna are stmt
Associated Press The migrants tilled out applications baek. SAN FHANCISCO DE PAUL/\ -A for Cuban passport<; and had scheduled Cuban Prnsident Fidel Castro's gov­group of Cuban migrants who reaehed a meeting for Monday at the U.S. ernment has ropnatndly expressed its a Florida Keys bridge only to be sent Interests Section in Havana. disapproval of thn U.S. polky. saying it back to home, prepared Wednesday to On Tuesday, U.S. District Judge encourages illogal and dangerous immi­legally travel to the United States after a Federieo Moreno in Miami ordered U.S. gration. 
U.S. judge ruled they could return. federal officials to "use their host That opposition has raised questions 
"Clearly there's a God up above," ell'orL<>" to help the Cubans return to the about whether tho island's eomrnunist migrant Emesto llemandez told AP United States. Moreno wrote that "those government would allow them to lnavo. Television News at his horne here. "I am Cub~m refugees who reached Ameriean But so lar tlmrn has bmm no word. so happy, I haven't eaten or slept." soil in early January 2006 wern The U.S. government said the old 
Though the Cuban government has removed to Cuba illegally." bridge in the Florida Keys didn't count not made 1ll1Y public statements on the Under the U.S. govemment's "wet­as dry land because chunks of tho ruling, the 15 men, women and chil­fbot, dry-foot" policy, Cubans who reach bridge am missing and it no longnr con­dren were hoping they will be allowed U.S. soil are generally allowed to stay, noels to U.S. soil. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 2, 2006 
Baron 

continued from page 1 
ing senators from the podium. "The same questions -'What does it mean to be Catholic in America?' 'Can a Catholic be an American?' -are asked in an increasingly complex fash­ion ... This is how we are to be an instrument to do good in the world." 
Baron's speech mentioned but did not stress the numer­ous small -or even large ­
accomplishments his admin­istration has achieved this year. 
Hather, it was an address grounded in conviction and imbued with a genuine con­cern for Notre Dame -and with Baron's own philosophy; specifically, his stance on the hotbed of campus discussion sparked by Jenkins' Jan. 23 and 24 addresses to faculty and students on academic freedom and Catholic charac­ter. 
"Father Jenkins demonstrat­ed a principle in his decision­making, that from a multitude of voices, ideas, opinions and perspectives, truth can be identified," Baron said. "I believe that this same princi­ple ... is applicable to the per­formance of the 'The Vagina Monologues' and the Gay and Lesbian Film [Screenings]. Since Father Jenkins' address­es, individuals have been com­pelled to examine themselves, listen to others and defend their faith. 
"Higher learning has taken place. We, as students, are called to make decisions as we learn. Open dialogue with every viewpoint presented and the influence of the Spirit will guide us to truth." 
While Baron said he saw the "Monologues" last year and found some content "clearly inconsistent with Catholic thought," he stressed the value of truth, saying the inconsistencies were realities that Catholics cannot choose to ignore. 
"l have faith that my faith will lead me to truth, knowl­edge and the Will of God," Baron said. "We must do more to be Catholic, not loss." 
That, Baron said, means "The Vagina Monologues" and the Gay and Lesbian Film Screenings have an important role to play at Notre Dame ­but "are not the only means by which we must discuss the topics of homosexuality and assault." 

Last year, Baron said per­formances of "The Vagina Monologues" at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center brought in $15,000 for the S­0-S and YWCA organizations in South Bend -a significant chunk of money lost this year when the "Monologues" became a free production in DeBartolo Hall. 
"Once again, in this very sit­uation, we are confronted with the question of the role Notre Dame should play in determin­
ing  how  Catholics  can  go  
about  doing  good  in  the  
world," Baron said.  

He made the distinction between the national YWCA, an openly pro-choice organi­zation, and the South Bend YWCA, an organization with­out a stated position on abor­tion. 
"Money, raised by Notre Dame students and donated to the local YWCA, would not be used for abortive practices or counseling. It is used to do good that no others are doing." 
The heavy discussions 
across and beyond campus on academic freedom and Notre Dame's Catholic character make this a "momentous time for the University and, specifi­cally, the Notre Dame student body," Baron said. 
He quoted Jenkins' inaugu­ral address: "If we are afraid to be different from the world, how can we make a difference in the world?" 
"We have a role to play that has national and global impli­cations," Baron said. "It is important that student gov­ernment be a respectable and thoughtful voice, now more than ever." 
And there's no one better to lead the Notre Dame student body through this period in the University's history than current student body vice president and president-elect Lizzi Shappell, Baron said. 
"Lizzi Shappell is a woman of will, conviction, insight and empathy," Baron said, as Shappell smiled in acknowl­edgment, hands crossed under her chin. 
"Since I met her two years ago, Lizzi has led me on the very issues that I spoke about tonight. She will do the same for 8,000 undergraduates and the entire Notre Dame family." 

But for Baron, what it really comes down to is the necessity of doing good and how he, and his administration, worked to fit Notre Dame into the bigger picture. 
"For your time and attention tonight," he said to the sena­tors, "for your efforts in the past 11 months, for your will­ingness to be a body of dis­course, for your contributions to Notre Dame as a Catholic think tank of America -I thank you." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal @nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 




USINESS

Thursday. March 2, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

11,053.53 +60.12
jones 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I,035 140 2,237 2,421,090,200 
AMfX l ,878.30 +31.08 NASDAQ 2,314.64 +29.24 NYSf 8,130.63 +70.02 S&PSOO 1,291.24 +10.58 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 16.0 13.39 +48.93 fTSf IOO(London) 5,844.10 +52.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) 

+4.05 +0.82 21.06 NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ) 
+ 1.36 +0.56 41.66 
INTEL CP (INTC) +0.97 +0.20 20.80 

SIRIUS SATELLITE R(SIRI) 

-1.37 -0.07 5.04 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) 

+3.14 +0.39 12.81 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE +0.92 +0.42 45.89 13-WEEK BILL -0.44 -0.20 44.87 30-YEARBOND + 1.29 +0.58 45.61 5-YEAR NOTE +0.65 +0.30 46.31 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.56 61.97 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +I.90 565.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.33 90.73 fxchan Rates 
YEN 

116.1800. EURO 
0.8385 POUND 
0.5715 CANADIAN$ 
1.1353 
IN BRIEF 
Boston Scientific delays Guidant deal 
BOSTON -Boston Scientific Corp. said 
Wt~dnnsday its $27 billion acquisition of med­
ical device maker Guidant Corp. will be 
dnlayed about a week, which would cost the 
company about $4.5 million per day in inter­
est paymnnts. 
Boston Scientil'ic had sought to finish the dna! by the end of March. But in a regulatory filing, the company said it now expects its c;uidant acquisition "to occur during the week of April :~. 2006." 
The dnlay will trigger interest payments that Boston Seientific has agreed to pay c;uidant shareholders if the deal wasn't con­cluded by a self-imposed March 31 deadline. 
Boston Scientilk spokesman Paul Donovan dedinnd to discuss a specific reason for the delay, which was disclosed in a brief mention in its 144-page annual filing. 
Boston Sdnnlifie had stuck by its initial end­of-March goal since late January, when it won a pricey bidding war with Johnson & Johnson to buy Guidant, based in Indianapolis. 
Stocks rise on consumer spending 
Nl•:W YOHK -Stocks rebounded Wednesday as n~ports of a surgn in eonsumer spending and improving lwalth in the manufaeturing seetor rnstorPd investors' confidence in the economy. 
Stods regained some of the ground lost in Tuesday's sharp drop after the Commerce I>npartnwnt said pnrsonal spnnding shot up by 
0.9 pnn~Pnt in .January, thn strongest gain in six months. Incomes rose by a solid 0.7 pnrcent, the hest showing since Snptembnr, with the gains attr·ihutnd to a variety of factors including eost­of-living adjustmnnts lilr Social Sncurity bnnnlils and thn nnw proscription drug benefit for Mndicarn rndpients. Still, spending gains out­paend inconw incrnases. 
Strong data from the manufacturing sector bolstPrnd invnstors' moods, with the lnstitutn for Supply ManagPrnnnt, a private resnarch group, n~porting that manufacturing expanded at a fastnr-than-nxpnctnd ratn in Fnbruary. 
Investors shruggnd oil' the slownst gain in the construction snetor in seven months. Construction spnnding rosn by a tiny 0.2 percent in .January, l.he latest indication in a strmun of rncnnl data showing a cooling housing sector. 
Airlines and pilots disagree 
Talks with Northwest, Delta employees to renegotiate contract terms fail to yield results 
Associated Press 
HOMULUS, Mich. -Two 
of the nation's largest air­
lines, Df1lta. and Northwest, 
failed to reach new eon­
tract terms with their pilots 
on Wednesday al'tnr 
marathon Iwgotiations. 
Without a deal, Northwest's pilots waited for a judge to rule on whether that carrinr could throw out their union eon­tract and impose its own tnrrns. In Delta's case, arbi­trators will dneidn that issue allnr a hearing sot to bngin March 13. 
Northwest Airlinns Corp. did reach a tentative agrne­ment with flight attnndants on Wednesday, the day a Nnw York bankruptcy court had sot as a deadline. 
The same judge, Allan Gropper, could rule at any time on Northwest's request to reject its pilot contract. It wasn't clnar when that would happen, but Northwest said a ruling was expected "in thn near futuro." 
Della Air Lines Inc. and Northwest, tho nation's third-and fourth-largest airlines, have said lhPy need long-t1mn pay cuts so they can emerge from bankruptcy protection. Both f'iled for Chapter 11 protection in New York on Sept. 14. 

Attorneys were set to meet with the judge foster ongoing negotia­line bankruptcies. hotel starting Mareh 13 to Wednesday night in New tions," he said. "! don't see Dnlta said in a memo cir­decide whether to grant York, said Wade Blaul'uss, a as a practical matter that it culated among employees Delta's requost to throw spokesman for the would play out that way." Wednesday that it has out its contract with its Northwest branch of the More than 92 percent of offered to ineroase its pilots pilots so the airline can Air Line Pilots Association. Northwest pilots voted to pay 1 1/2 percent at the impose up to $325 million 
Absent a ruling, the law authorize a strike if the air­end of 2008 and another 1 in cuts unilater·ally. The appeared to give Northwest line imposes its terms on 1/2 percent in 2009. Delta union is currently oiToring the right to impose its them. Northwest said a is now ofl'ering its pilots a about $115 million in aver­terms on pilots. Blaufuss strike would be illegal and $330 million note instead age annual eoneessions. said the union doesn't that it would seek an of $300 million if it termi­Nothing proeludes the believe Northwest could do immediate injunction to nates the pilots defined sides from continuing to that. stop one. Delta's pilot union benefit pension plan. The negotiate up to and 
But some experts dis­has threatened a strike, pilots are asking for a $1 through the hearings. agreed. Minneapolis bank­too, though members have billion note. The two sides agreed to ruptcy attorney George not voted on one. Delta also said it has arbitration instead of lot­Singer said he believes A prolonged pilots' strike offered its pilots equity in ting the bankruptcy court Northwest could impose its could be enough to sink the company once it make the dodsion. terms after Wednesday if either airline. Atlanta­emerges from bankruptcy. In late 2004 pilots agreed the judge doesn't rule. But based Delta has described Its memo didn't say how to a five-year deal that cut he said it wouldn't be pro­a strike as "murder-sui­much. pay and benelits by $1 bil­ductive. cide." Deadlines like those The arbitrators will hold lion annually. It indudnd 
"That would strike me as VVednesday have prompted two weeks of hearings at a an immndiate 32.5 percent something that wouldn't wage-cut deals in other air-downtown Washington pay cut. 


Ex-Enron CPO to testify next week 
•  
Associated Press  ruptcy proceedings.  ing wrong and no fraud oecurrnd at  
But rastow isn't the only worry for  the company.  
HOUSTON -Andrew Fastow, the  the defense. David Delainey, a for­ Prosecutors contend Lay and  
former Enron Corp. chief financial  mer high-ranking trading and retail  Skilling repeatedly lind about  
officer who admitted he engineered  energy executive testified Wednesday  Enron's financial health oven though  
schemes to hide company debt and  that he, Skilling and others lied  they knew that fraudulent account­ 
inflate profits for years, will testify  about the company's !inaneial health  ing propped up the company boforn  
next week in the fraud and conspira­ as part of a conspiracy to defraud  it sought bankruptcy protoetion.Llntil  
cy trial of his former bosses, compa­ investors.  he reaelwd a ploa deal with prosneu­ 
ny founder Kenneth Lay and former  Delainey has boon tho govern­ tors in January 2004, Fastow was  
Chief Executive Jeffrey Skilling.  ment's strongest witness so far,•  the highest-ranking ox-Enron execu­ 
Prosecutors told U.S. District .Judge  describing the collusion among  tive indietod in tho Justicl'  
Sim Lake on VVednesday that Fastow  Enron executives, including Skilling,  Departmont's invnstigalion into  
was expected to testify nnxt week  to make the company look healthier  Enron 's collapsn.  
against Lay and Skilling in a much­ than it was.  A month Ialor Skilling was indirt­ 
anticipated facooff between the  Fastow will make his first public  ed, followed by Lay in .July 2004.  
defendants and the man credited  statements about his admitted  Lay has nqwatoclly skowPrl'd  
with devising the financial strategies  crimes at Enron, and his testimony  Fastow as a crook who bntrayod his  
that helped fuel the company's swift  could be devastating to his former  trust by stealing from tlw •~ompany  
December 2001 descent into bank- bosses' insistence that thoy did noth­ that made thnm all multimillionain•s.  

page 8 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, March 2, 2006 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
would be decreased from 65.25 percent to 63.25 percent, and the fund for co-sponsorship between clubs and Student Union groups would be elimi­nated. 
If passed, the amendment would allocate clubs $44,100 of the funds newly available from a student activities fees increase, while only $9,502.86 would go to all other student organizations -including SUB, Student Government, Hall President's Council, the four Class Councils, Senior Week, Off-Campus Council, Judicial Council and Club Coordination Council. The Council of Representatives Collaboration Fund would also be entirely eliminated. 
O'Shaughnessy's sincerity was apparent, as she pleaded with senators to "stand up for what [you] believe in" and stressed the importance of clubs to the Notre Dame expe­rience. 
Siegfried senator Ben Gunty questioned the necessity of the amendment, citing personal experience with the availability of club funds. 
"I was part of [Student International Business Council (SBIC)] and applied for funding, and got it extremely quickly," he said. "I don't understand why we need even more money [for clubs]." 
O'Shaughnessy said the SIBC proposal was "fantastic," but said clubs still "deserve [more money] for their great contri­butions to student life." 
Academic Affairs Committee chairman Chris Harris acknowledged O'Shaughnessy's ideals, but questioned the specifics of the amendment. 
"What I am questioning is the fairness of the proposal," he said. "I don't know how I can personally justify g1vmg $44,100 of the student fee increase to the clubs and giving everyone else $9,500." 
While senators expressed respect for O'Shaughnessy's attempts to garner support, not a single vote was cast in favor of the amendment. 
The Senate also voted on ­and ultimately passed -a motion approving a letter the Diversity Committee will send to all hall rectors this week asking their dorms to hang a rainbow f1ag imprinted with "The Spirit of Inclusion" from March 20 though March 24. 
A part of the committee's Stand Against Hate campaign, the flag-hanging -intended to stimulate casual discussion throughout campus -will be part of a program that will include discussion panels and Stall Note explanations. 
Farley Hall senator Carol Hendrickson expressed hesita­tion over the flag's appearance. 
"My concern is people will just assume it [is] a flag for gay and lesbian issues," she said. "There needs to be some sort of information that the 'Spirit of Inclusion' is not just about that." 
Minority Affairs Committee chair Rhea Boyd countered Hendrickson, asserting the validity of a symbol which could inspire incomplete inter­pretation. 
"If people assume it's for gay and lesbian issues, so what," she said. "If it's about a group who obviously isn't included at Notre Dame, more power to the poster." 
Though Badin senator and Diversity Committee member Erin Hankins said rectors could not be forced to hang the flags, O'Neill senator Steve Tortorello warned dorms might still feel imposed upon. 
The idea of the t1ag stirred universal negative feelings in O'Neill's Hall Council, Tortorello said, citing hall staff members who felt hanging the flag would suggest a "celebration of a lifestyle." 
"Everyone from the staff to the presidents to the represen­tatives felt imposed upon," he said. 
Community relations commit­tee chair Nick Guzman sup­ported the flag's controversial appearance, noting that only an attention-grabbing device would stimulate conversation about the issue. 
"The fact that it's going to ruff1e feathers is exactly the point of the flag," Guzman said. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 
SERBIA 


Prime minister of Kosovo abdicates 
Associated Press 
PRISTINA -Kosovo Prime Minister Bajram Kosumi resigned on Wednesday, days after the start of crucial talks on whether the province will gain full independence or remain part of Serbia. 
llis nominated replacement, Lt. Gen. Agim Ceku, heads the civil emergency organization that ethnic Albanians view as the core of their future army. 
Ceku sided with Croatia's army in their fight against Serbs during the breakup of Yugoslavia in the early 1990s. Serbian officials have accused him of committing war crimes against civilians and have issued a warrant for his arrest. Ceku, 44, denies any wrongdo­ing. 
He became the commander of the now-disbanded Kosovo Liberation Army, the guerrilla force that fought Serb troops during the province's 1998­1999 war. 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan last month offered a grim assessment of Kosovo's progress toward stability, saying in a report that the region had fallen behind in efforts to create a multiethnic and democratic society. 
Annan's report to the U.N. Security Council said there had been little headway in e{forts to achieve a series of benchmarks including the rights of minori­ties, ending corruption and the return of refugees. 
Serbian leaders in Belgrade want to keep at least some con­trol over the province, which has been a de-facto U.N. protec­torate since the end of the war. 
IRAQ 

Saddam admits role in Shiite trials 
Former Iraqi leader says 148 executions imply no crime on his part 
actions were illegal, since there is no jury. After Wednesday's session, the trial was adjourned to March 12. 
The often turbulent trial has become more orderly in the past two sessions under the tough new chief judge, Raouf Abdel­Rahman, who broke a defense team boycott and clamped down on outbursts, shouted insults and arguments by Saddam and other defendants. 
The discipline could boost the trial's credibility, which U.S. and Iraqi officials hope will encour­age Iraq's sharply divided Shiites and Sunnis to accept the verdict. But outside the court­room, those divisions have become only bloodier. Nearly 100 people have been killed in the past two days in sectarian violence. 
The trial is also beginning to tackle the core of the case against the defendants, as pros­ecutors presented a series of documents -memos, decrees and reports from Saddam's office and the Mukhabarat intel­ligence agency -detailing the bureaucracy behind the crack­down. 
On VVednesday, the prosecu­tion played an audiotape of Saddam discussing the razing of the Dujail farms with a Baath Party official in the early 1990s and showed satellite photos of the flattened land. 
Chief prosecutor Jaafar al­Moussawi showed the court handwritten letters allegedly sent by three of the defendants days after the assassination attempt, informing on Dujail families linked to the Dawa Party, a Shiite opposition militia accused in the attack. 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -"Where is the crime? Where is the crime?" 
So said a defiant Saddam Hussein at the end of Wednesday's hearing in a trial that could send him to the gal­lows. 
In a dramatic speech, the for­mer Iraqi leader 

"If the chief figure makes things easy for you by saying he was the one responsible, then why are you going after these people?" he said. 
The deaths of the Shiites are one of the main charges against the defendants, who could face execution by hanging -the same fate as most of the 148 ­
if convicted. 

told the court that They are on he ordered the "If the chief figure trial also for tor­trial of 148 Shiites ture and impris­
makes things easy 

who were eventu­onment of the
for you by saying 

ally executed in Shiites, as well as the 1980s. He also he was the one the razing of acknowledged their farmlands,
responsible, then 

ordering the con­in a crackdown
why are you going 

fiscation and flat­launched after a tening of their after these people?" July 8, 1982 palm groves and assassination farms in the town attempt against
Saddam Hussein

of Dujail. Saddam in Dujail. 

defendant
But he insisted he had the right to do so because the Shiites of Dujail were suspected of trying to assassinate him. 
"If trying a suspect accused of shooting at a head of state -no matter what his name is -is considered a crime, then you have the head of state in your hands," Saddam told the judges. "Try him." 
The bold testimony came a day after prosecutors presented the most direct evidence against him in the four-month trial: a 1984 presidential decree approving the death sentences for the 148, with a signature said to be Saddam's. 
Saddam did not admit or deny approving their executions, but stated outright that he was sole­ly responsible for their prosecu­tion, adding that his seven co­defendants should be released. 

The prosecu­
tion has argued the imprisonment and execu­tions were illegal, saying the 148 were sentenced to death in an "imaginary trial" before Saddam's Revolutionary Court where the defehdants did not even appear. 
The crackdown, they argue, went far beyond the actual attackers. They have presented documents that show entire families -including women and children as young as 3 months old -were arrested, tortured and held for years. Those executed included at least 10 juveniles, one as young as 11, according to the docu­ments. 
The five judges will be able to take Saddam's confession into account when they rule in the case. It will be up to them to decide whether Saddam's 

r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------·----------------------­
Thursday, March 2, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting 
nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in J ournalisrn 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, or fellow students. 
For a nomination form, please visit our website at: 
http://osa.nd.edu 
N(nninations are due hy Thursday, March 9, 2006. 
Careers as Vocations 
~._ 
,~ 
·,.,~.·(!)
..• 
·--~ 
Healthcare 

Sunday, March 5th 
4:00 p.m. -5:30 p.m. at the Centerfor Social Concerns 

Write News. Call 1..5323.
-~H 


Report: Hispanics must adjust better 
Education programs could help integration 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Millions of Hispanics come to America looking for jobs and educa­
tions,  but  remaining  here  
seems  to  be  bad  for  their  
health.  

The longer Hispanics are here, the more likely they are to become obese, to develop diabetes, high blood pressure and heart disease. And Hispanics born here have even higher rates of those illnesses, "We are in the midst of tlw 
llispanie monHmt," she said at 
a briefing. But, she addnd, 
there an1 two ominous trends 
for llispanies -worsening 
health status and increased 
risk of family disruption. 

The immigrants report, also ·released Wedrwsday, promptly 
documented her health con­
cerrls. 

It found that 22.0 percent of 
Hispanics who have been in 
the country live years or morn 
are obese, com pared to 16.1 
percent who have bonn horn 
for less than live years. 

High blood pressure climbs 
from 13.4 percent for newer 
arrivals to 19.S 
percent for those 
a-new govern­"We are in the here longnr. As ment report they stay longnr
midst of the 
shows. than five years,
Hispanic moment." 
The analysis diabetns rates rise of immigrants' from 6.9 percent health by the Marta Tlenda to 7.5 pnrcnnt and federal Centers heart disease
sociology professor 
for Disease increases from 3.5
Princeton University 
Control comes percent to 5.4 per-
on the heels of a report calling for more educational programs for llispanies, who are expect­ed to increase to nearly one­!'ourth of the country's popula­tion in coming years. 
"Failure to close llispanies' education ar}d language gap risks compromising their abili­ty to both contribute to and share in national prosperity," cautions the study by the National Research Council, an arm of tho National Acadnmy oF Sciences. 
Marta Tienda, a sociology professor at Princeton University and head of the panel that wrote the National Academics report, said llispanies are scattering across the nation and "transforming their new destinations oven as we evolve as a nation." 
eont. 

And Hispanic immigrants are among thosn least likely to havn health insurancn. 
Among Hispanics born in this country. 29.S percent an1 obese, 24.5 percent report high blood pressun1, IO.S per­emit are diabntic and 7.6 per­<lf1nt have hnart disease. 
Among tho native-born U.S. population overall, 22.9 per­cent are obnse, 24.3 percnnt have high blood pressure, h.1 pnrcent are diabot.k and 7.(J percent havn lwart disease. 
Tho one positive note, smok­
. ing dnelirws from 15.3 pnreent. to 13.S percnnt among llispanics hero morn than livn years. Somn 20.1 perc1111t of' U.S.-born llispanies smoke, as do 24.0 pnreent. of the overall population. 
NY(: police alartned over student's death 
Brutal murder shocks family, investigators 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -She was a young graduate student who died in a gruesome way: rapnd, strangled and left on the side of a remote road in Brooklyn. Beige-colored packing tape masked her entire face. A sock was stuffed in her mouth. 
The stark contrast botween the promising life of 24-year-old !motte St. Guillen and her ghast­ly slaying last weekend -and the mystery surrounding her final hours -perplexed and alarmed investigators, who li~ar her killer may strike again. 
St. Guillen had been set to graduate this semester from John Jay College of Criminal Justice in Manhattan. She grad­uated with honors from George Washington University in Washington. 
"She was kind, she was loving and she wouldn't hurt anyone," her mother, Maureen, said Tuesday outside her home. 
Investigators thnoriw tlw killer was a stranger who lurwl St. Guillen out of The Falls. tlw lower Manhattan bar where she was last seen early Saturday. But no suspods have been iden­tili<1d. 
Later Saturday, authorities rnceived an anonymous 911 call from a man who gave tlw loca­tion of' St. Guillnn's body -and nothing morn. Police tnu:nd the call to a public phonn at a diner about a mile from where the body was discovnmd in a patch of wends, and six m i Ins from where she was last smm alive. 
Investigators have tried to locate the caller, thinking lw may have bonn involved in thn 1:rime and called out of rmnorse. They also have carrvassed motels and hotnls, believing the litted, king-size !lora! bedspread wrapped around the body 1:ould have come from one of thn establishments. So far, nnither lead has pamwd out. 
St. Guillen's family has appealed liJr the publk's hnlp in linding the killer. 
"She was a beautiful girl, I mean beautiful inside also," her mother said. ' 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, March 2, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Why celebrity is like Oakland 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garda 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 
ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: jennifer Kenning 
CoNTIIOLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
. • VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. EditQrial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Qumions regarding Observer polides should be directed to Editor in Chief Claire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th<: Ob:$ef\lcr {USPS 599 2.-4000} 15 publishctl Monday through Frid:l.y t~l«:cpr during tltil.m «nd "Va<:ation periods. Asubscription tu The Observer iJ $1 0(} for <me academic yean $55 for one 11emesr-er. 
The Observer is publish~ at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send add.t:es!O. ~tt!o:kms t.(l~ 
Nvtre Dame, IN 46556..0779 'Thcah$¢rver 
Period.icaJ post~~ge paid at Nom:: D.am~ r.o. no.m 
and addldona.l mailing olfleeS. 024: South Dining Hall 
Nom O>mt, IN <6>56-on9 
The Ohservu is .a member (Ifthe Associatc:l Press. All reproduction rights arc tcseNcd. 

Legend has it that the gods offered Achilles a choice between a long, undistin­guished life and a short, glorious one. Achilles judged a premature death an acceptable price for the immortality of fame. 
If fame is the recog­nition of great achievement, then there is no mystery to its appeal. It's only natural that the base­ball player should dream of securing a place in the Hall of Fame or the aspiring writer should dream of winning a Pulitzer Prize. By honoring excellence we encour­age. excellence; the fact that the desire for fame leads many astray (be it through the use of performance-enhancing drugs, pla­giarism or the fabrication of scientific result<;) is regrettable, but no reason not to honor genuine accomplishment. 
Fame is something quite different from celebrity, although some who achieve fame also become celebrities as a result. Celebrity is about always being in the pub­lic view, and is measured in cameras. It's no accident that film and television actors, who are used to working in front of cam­eras, are the most prominent celebrities. 
There are some obvious appeals to being a celebrity; there is the money, of course, and the access to the most exclusive ­and hence glamorous -restaurants and parties. These benefits are real enough, but they alone would hardly be worth the effort of attaining and maintaining celebri­ty status. One does not climb Everest for the view. 
Life under the spotlight is obviously so demanding that it would not make any sense to submit to continual public scruti­ny merely as a means of getting to the best Hollywood pool parties. Celebrity is sought not as a means to an end, but as an end in itself; for the celebrity, life in the spotlight is not a burden, it's the whole point. ' 
Warren Beatty once said of Madonna, "She doesn't even want to live off-camera, 

Peter 
Wicks 
Englishman 
Abroad 
much less talk." It sometimes looks like the press are always intruding into celebrities' private lives, but Beatty's remark suggests that those who survive and flourish as celebrities neither have nor want private lives. As Gertrude Stein once said of · Oakland, there is no "there" there. 
In the past I have mocked some of the political pronouncements made by film actors who have somehow come to believe that they have not just a right but a duty to use their prominence to share their geopo­litical insights with the general public. Most of the commentary deserves the response that Wolfgang Pauli is said to have given to a particularly egregious paper submitted for publication in a physics journal: "This isn't right. This isn't even wrong." 
I won't belabor the point-these days the only people who still believe celebritie~ have something to contribute to political debate are other celebrities -except to mention my theory that as a means to break a person's mind, sycophancy is sec­ond only to physical torture. The qukkest way to drive a man crazy without laying a finger on him is to give him an entourage. 
Celebrity seems to me a far worse deal than fame, but I can still see the appeal even if I do not feel it. What I cannot understand is the desire many people have to appear on television regardless of the circumstance. Reality television seems devoted to fmding out just how much peo­ple are willing to humiliate themselves to appear on screen. 
I'd like to propose a bold and wholly unverifiable theory about why this is: We have become Berkeleian Idealists. This form of idealism, named after the Irish philosopher George Berkeley, holds that the world is composed not of mind-inde­pendent material objects, but of ideas, and it is in the essence of ideas to be perceived by someone. As Berkeley put it "esse est percipi": To be is to be perceived. 
Contrary to popular belief, philosophers don't actually spend their time debating the question "If a tree falls in a forest and there is no one there to hear it, does it make a sound?" but if we did, the Berkeleian Idealist would hold that with­out an observer, not only is there no sound, there is no tree either. 

This view has rather less bizarre impli­cations when combined with belief in God (Berkeley himself was an Anglican Bishop, at a time when holding that office was still a fairly reliable indication of belief in God). An eternal, all-seeing God secures the per­manence of trees and other objects that might otherwise pop out of existence when we aren't looking. 
Medieval cathedrals are often decorated with gargoyles and other ornaments posi­tioned so far above the ground that once in place there is no way that they would have been visible to the naked eye. But the craftsman still worked on them as if their details would have been subject to dose inspection, because God would see them. A'> the poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow put it: 
"In the elder days of art, . 
Builders wrought with greatest care 
Each minute and unseen part, 
For the gods are everywhere." 
In the absence of a God to pay attention 
to these things, there is a corresponding increase in the constant need for the· recognition of others. Hence perhaps the somewhat compulsive relationship so many of us have with instant messenger, e­mail and our cellphones, and hence also our deep unease with the experience of solitude. It is often said that a university edueation should teach us to be good citi­zens. I'd agree ifonly I believed that those doing the educating knew how to make good citizens, but while we're making wish lists let me add an item that doesn't get mentioned nearly so often as good citizen­ship but is just as important: A university education should teach us how to be alone. 
Peter ltVicks is a graduate student in the philosophy department. He was once fea­tured in a Japanese documentary about the differences between English and Japanese comedy. To this day he is unable to account for how this happened. Peter can be contacted at pwicks@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Consider vegetarianism for Lent 
This Lent, we can play a significant role in alleviating the suffer­ing of the voiceless. From labor in the fields to confinement in the factories, the process by which our food came to settle on our din­ner plate involved niuch suffering. It is one thing to silently con­demn suffering, but faithful stewardship requires more. Therefore, I challenge Notre Dame students, faculty and clergy to try vegetarianism for Lent. 
The decision to give up meat or to consume less animal products is consistent with Christ's ministry for the weak and oppressed. Today, more than ever, animals are deserving of this special com­passion. Factory farms, where the majority of meat and dairy come from, involve severe confinement and painful slaughter for billions of animals. This inhumane treatment of animals is a per­version of Christ's peaceable kingdom where "The wolf also shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the kid; and the calf and the young lion and the fatling together; and a lit­tle child shall lead them" (Isaiah 11 :6). This passage, along with numerous other biblical references to animals, suggests that we ought not to ignore animals as we work towards living in the spirit of Christ. The way of compassion and mercy can and should translate into our own time. To ignore it is falling short of our human potential to honor God's creation. 
Jesus, in his life of service and healing, forgave the outcasts of society. With a similar respect for all of God's creation, we can allow farm animals into our sphere of compassion. The question should not be "Why can't we eat animals?" but rather, "Do we need to eat animals for our survival?" Human beings are not per­fect, but any step towards living more compassionately is signifi­cant progress. 
The overall message of Christ's life can inform the challenges that we face today. As thnologian Andrew Linzey points out, "To opt for a vegetarian lifestyle is to take one practical step towards living in peace with the rest of creation." To assist you with this goal, I highly recommend visiting www.veg4lent.org, a site wholly dedicated to this spiritual journey. 
Danielle Nunez junior Cavanaugh Hall Feb.28 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Karen Langley Eric Retter Katie Perry Tim Dougherty What do you think about the Joe Piarulli Fran Tolan tuition hike? 
"Today is your da!jf

Marcella Berrios Scene 
Your mountain is waltin!J.
Viewpoint Liz Byrum 

So ... get on your way.· Alyssa Brauweiler 
Theodore Seuss Geisel 

Graphics Vote by today at 5 p.m. at 
children's author 
Matt Hudson 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 



THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT 

--------====-===================================== 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Datne basketball needs full support 
Basketball team. isn't 'the worst' 
Thursday, March 2, 2006 
I just talked to a frinnd who, for I.Pnt. plans to give away one thing llach day. lin will nxaminn his matn­rial goods and tlwn. nvnry day of Lnnt. lnt go of something. Now this may bo nasy for tiHl l'irst Wlll'k or so. 
Kate Barrett

l~xtra pair of pants. no big dna!; thosn shoos I rwvPr WOJ'Il, FailhJ>oint won't miss 'om. t\f'tpr a hit, hownver, it snPms that my l'rinnd's l.nntnn discipline will IH·t~onu• morn, ratlwr than lnss. diiTi­cult to maintain. It's not like giving up, say, roiTnn, wlwrP (after tlw lwadadws go away) you just sort of got usnd to its tnmporary absence. By t.lw Linw hn gnts into tlw l'inal roupln wnnks of Ll'nt. hn will cPrtainly havn nxhaustnd his supply of that which lw donsn'l mind giving away, and his gifts (which arn now pnrmannntly, rathnr than tnmporarily. absnnt) will lw hitting a litt.ln closer to homo. 
My lnttnr is in response to the March letter to tho editor of my fellow alumnus, John Chute. 
Let me start out hy saying I eom­plntely agree with him that Notre Dame should set a standard of excel­lence in all things. It was that desinl for nxcnllence that lnd to the changes Univnrsity President Father John Jenkins and Executive Vice President John t\l'l1nek-Graves made in football after the 2004 season, and it's a poliey as much a part of Notre Dame as the Golden Dome. Let me also say that a four-to six-win season in the Big East is not up to anyone's level of expecta­tion, so thn results of the 2005-06 nwn's haskf!tball season at Notre Dame is e1~rtainly cause for concern. 
But a cornmitmont to excellence must bn a two-way street, and I put it to Chute and The Observer's readership that Notre Damn is not living up to its end of' the bargain. 
John Gites Duke as a model worthy of emulation in building a basketball pro­gram, and I agree it is tho "gold stan­dard." But Duke just spent tens of mil­lions of dollars upgrading what John ealled "mediocre practice facilities" by building a state-of-the-art practice and meeting eomplnx for its basketball players. This moans the Duke basket­ball program, a top-notch program with every recruiting advantage you could imagine, felt it nended top-night faeilitins to compete in recruiting. 
Notre Dame football is the same­11 National Championships, seven 
Giving up for Lent 

lj. strikes me, though, that for the very reason that giving your stuff away would get hardnr and harder, it's a great metaphor for how to spnnd Lent. Shouldn't we all strive to keep stripping away all that sepa­rates our hearts from God's lovn, tho elosnr wo gnt to Jesus' death and transforming resurrection'? Maybe I can fnnl just as socurn with seven pairs of pants as with eight, or with onn fewer pair of shoes, but what happnns when what I havn lnl't is my rnally. really favoritn swnatshirt? Dons it beeomn time to skip a day of giving'? Whalfwnr wn wrap around 
·us, litnrally or figuratively, that makns us fnel safe, or cool, or pow­erful. or !)mart. or daring, can also be tlw very thing that holds us back from facing just our plain-old­u n ado r~1,ec!-possibl.tev.e.~-in ad equatn solves. I his same stuff can become our rnason for neglecting our rela­tionship with God, because in the lit­
lloisman Trophy winners, a national television contract and the best fan­base in the country (if not the world) provides huge advantages and should be very attractive to high school ath­letes. Yet we just spent tens of millions of dollars to build the Gug. The Notre Dame football program, a top-notch program with every recruiting advan­tage you could imagine, felt it needed top-flight facilities to compete in recruiting. 
In the 40 years since the Joyce Center opened, every other non-foot­ball sport on campus has received a major financial infusion, whether it be via fully funding scholarships to the maximum level allowed by the NCAA, building new facilities for playing and/or practicing, or both. The Eck Tennis Pavilion was built in the last 20 years. The baseball stadium is less than 10 years old. The football pro­gram, in the last 20 years, has received two state-of-the-art practice facilities (first Loftus and now the Gug) and had a full renovation of its stadi­um. 
No one denies football rules the roost at Notre Dame, but three major proj­ects in 20 years while basketball receives nothing seems, to me, to be unreasonable, especially in light of the fact that the basketball programs out­performed the football program on the liold over the last 10 years. When a recruit visits campus and sees the opu­lence of the Gug and then the spartan confines of the Pit, what impression 
tie corners of our lives where tho 
"stuff" isn't, we know that God may 
be cnlling us to unwrap these layers of protection. Do we look to accumu­late possessions, or prestige, or pop­ularity, or expertise in a certain area, out of concern for (or pride about) what others think of us'? Ought wn not be more concemed over what God thinks of us'? 
t\t what point do we recoil from what Christ calls us to "give up" in order to follow him with all our heart'? It's probably not at the point where we moot chocolate, or beer. or TV or video games. We strip down in a lot of ways during Lent-our churches and chapels look more bare and the music of our wtHship becomes morn solemn and stark; we give things up and try to spnnd more time in prayer; we may eat more simply in ordnr to donate tho ovnr­l'low or our food budget to the hun­gry. Perhaps our stripping down and 
should we expect that recruit to create in his or her mind'? What message is Notre Dame sending to recruits (and to potential quality coaching replace­
. ments, if that's where your interest lies)'? 
In his letter, John says that his employer gave him the financial sup­port up front white expecting him with­in a given time period to prove himself worthy of that funding. I suggest that Notre Dame has not done the same for Mike Brey (or Muffet McGraw, for that matter), expecting quality performance while not providing the same level of excellence in support, either in facili­ties or in academic oversight. 
For example, Notre Dame recently lost out on a recruit to Georgetown. This recruit, named after a former Irish basketball great, came on campus for an official visit. but left without a scholarship offer. Why'? llis SAT score was short of the limit for an early offer -a limit, I'm led to understand, that does not restrain the football staff. Georgetown saw no reason to use such a ridiculous standard, so that player will be suiting up for John Thompson III in 2007. 
Dominic James will most likely be the Rookie of the Year in the Big East for Marquette. l-Ie was an Irish recruiting target as well. But as of spring of 2004, he had yet to take the SAT. so his scholarship offer was conditional. Like Georgetown, Marquette didn't have a problem with James' circumstance, so he's now dropping 18 points on the 

page II 
giving up. however. nneds to be directly focused at how wn can !war 
morn clearly God's intentions for our 
lives. 
Forty days isn't sueh a long time. For many of us, finding 40 things to give away wouldn't nvnn !'oren us to dip too dnnply into our l'avornd pos­sessions. These next 40 days. howev­er, could be powerful. transforming ones if we allow oursnlves to bnconw ourselves-without any of tho lay­ers of proteetivo adornnwnts we usu­ally carry with us. Our mothers worn right when tlwy told us, "Just be yourself!" God loves us and will bless us; wn just have to be oursnlvns. 
Kale /Jarrell is the director of resources and special projects for Campus Ministry. ,<.,'he can he nmched at /Jarretl.28@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those r~f the author and not nec­essarily those of The Obseroer. 
Irish in the Joyce Center instead of for 
them. 
A wise man I know once said, "Where Notre Dame has directnd its intellectual and financial resources, succnss has invariably followed," and I believe that to be an excellent mantra. Right now in basketball, Notre Dame is doing neither. Mike Brey was promised facilities improvement when he arrived at Notre Dame six years ago, and the floor of the Joyce Center is still held down by duct tape while their praetice gym would be considered low quality for a YMCt\. t\s I noted earlier, whether on purpose or not, Notre Dame is mak­ing a statement about how it regards and supports basketball by not addressing these problems. 
In his letter, John asked why the Notre Dame administration has "treat­ed the men's basketball program like the infirmed little sibling. as if unable to meet the standards to which lwery­one else in the family is held." The answer is simple -the other programs fie listed have been given the adminis­tration's full attention and support. When Notre Dame does this for the basketball program, I'll be comfortable demanding the top-1 0 finishes and Sweet 16 appearances John has asked for. Until then, as far as I'm concornod, the ball is in Notre Dame's court. 
Michael Coffey ;Jlumnus Class of 1991 March I 
I'm writing in rnsponso to John Chute's March 1 letter to the editor. If one were going to take the time to write a scathing letter of such length, I would assume he would do some fact-checking. 
First, to elaim that this is the worst season since Notre Dame joined the Big East 14 seasons ago is factually wrong on several fronts. We played our first Big East confernnt:e game in 1995. That same season we went 4-14 in conference, with some staggering blowouts. I know; I was a freshman with season tickets in tlw pullout bleachers directly behind the hoop. t\lso ol' note from that 1995 sea­son wen~ students showing up in ()Conn jerseys and openly cheering for the other team. 
I'm going to assume that Chute, likn much of the Notre Dame community, did­n't pay attnntion to basketball that year, because he obviously doesn't realize how poorly we playml that first year. To compare this current season to 1995, no one could say we are hurtling toward our "worst record in 14 mostly nwdioere seasons in the Big East." It hasn't been 14 soasons, and we have playod much worse than this yoar. 
Wn all admit that this season has been tough and heartbreaking, and at the end ol' the day, results are all that matters. t\nd this year, we have fallen short of those results. Accountability begins at the top, and this is something I'm sure Coach Mike Brey recognizes. 
However. I'd ask Chute one other question about his diatribe against our pro­gram and staff: Until this year, name all the coaches who finished the Big East regular soason at or above .500 from the 2000-2001 season through the 2004­2005 season. The list is pretty short, and doesn't ineludo some IIOF eoaehes currently in the Big East. yet our own coach is there. 
Chute, don't let the disappointment of the past two seasons cloud your judge­ment. We are all disappointed, and we should llxpeet more, as I'm sure tlw team and staff expect more. But don't use patently false statemtmts and hyper­bole to bolster your argument. The truth is simple. While we haven't been a member of the eonferenee elite, we haven't been a bottom dwnller (as we worn in the initial 1995 season), either. 
Kevin McCarthy alumnus Class of 1999 March I 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 12 
Thursday, March 2, 2006 
CD REVIEWS 

Former student band gains popularity 
By BOB COSTA Scene Critic 
Notre Dame is not exactly known for its music scene. With limited local venues besides AcoustiCafe for campus bands to play, most fade away by graduation. But that was never the case for Umphrey's McGee, an exceedingly popular rock band that formed at Notre Dame in December of1997. 
Led on vocals and guitar by Brendan Bayliss -the son of longtime men's tennis coach Bobby Bayliss -Umphrey's McGee has certainly evolved. The group once known for headlining downtown South Bend's State Theater and Mishawaka pubs became a rock band that has head­lined the Bonnaroo Music Festival, played with Phil Lesh of the Grateful Dead and released 2004's "Anchor Drops," a criti­cally acclaimed studio album that fea­tured the Jammy Award winning song "In the Kitchen." To say that Umphrey's McGee has solidified itself as one of the 
.best bands to emerge from Notre Dame in to its recent live



Recommended tracks: 'Believe the Lie/'Rocker,''Women, 
DVD release

Wine and Song' and 'Safety in Numbers' 
"Wrapped Around Chicago: 

decades is an understatement. 
The band's new album, "Safety In Numbers," is a tour de force. Songs like "Passing," which evokes a plethora of images of both loss and life, propel the collection of 11 songs into each listener's psyche. No longer just a "jam-band" that hooks listeners with its dynamic live shows, Umphrey's McGee has obviously invested itself in the studio creation of its songs as sonic structures built upon more than three-chords, verse and melody. All six members of the band, from key­boardist Joel Cummins to drummer Kris Myers, leave their own marks on each song -allowing the album to have a complex tone yet approachable accessibil­ity. 
Produced by the band and its longtime live sound coordinator Kevin Browning (of the Browning cinema family), "Safety In Numbers" is ambitious from start to fin­ish. It moves beyond Umphrey's McGee's muscular live rock performance into inti­mate acoustic numbers surrounded by an eclectic euphony of guitar effects, soaring vocals and passionate band interplay . 
More King Crimson, Beck and Allman Brothers tha:n Phish, Umphrey's McGee is pushing the jam-band genre into a new direction that deviates from its comfortable Deadhead past. The band can jam for hours on end -for proof listen New Years at the Riv" -but it can also contain itself to a point that is about the simple relationship between the words of Bayliss and the intelligent riffs of lead gui­tarist Jake Cinninger. 

The album begins with the meandering rock song "Believe the Lie," featuring Bayliss emotionally singing about the plas­tic nature of modern society where "If you believe in every lie I You're never free to walk away." That track segues into the richly introspective acoustic song "Rocker," a song in memory of the life of the band's friend Brian Schultz, who was killed by a drunk driver a year ago. 
Umphrey's McGee has been touring con­stantly since its members graduated from Notre Dame in the late 1990s. Just a few months after the group's first gig in 1998, the band released its own CD, the cleverly titled live album "Greatest Hits, Volume III." The group's frrst major studio album, "Local Band Does OK," won Umphrey's the raves of rock critics across the coun­try. It is understandable why Rolling Stone magazine calls Umphrey's McGee "the leading contenders for Phish's jam­smeared crown." The band's music has an indelible energy that has infected listeners from South Bend to Amsterdam. 
"Safety In Numbers" has a decidedly inward approach to its subject matter, most notably on "Rocker" and the power­ful "Words." At first listen, one may think that Umphrey's McGee makes each song too much of a labyrinth, with crescendos hidden among melodies and sporadic notes. "Safety In Numbers" features a guest performance by sax sensation Joshua Redman and even a cameo by vet­eran rocker Huey Lewis on the upbeat anthem "Women, Wine and Song." 
If listeners love music that takes chances, has the spirit of Frank Zappa and builds harmonies upon crunching gui­tar solos and passionate lyricism, then Umphrey's McGee's "Safety In Numbers" should undoubtedly be in their collection. 
Contact Bob Costa at rcostal@nd.edu 
Saint Etienne surprises with U.S. label success 
By JOE LATTAL Scene Critic 
Electronic indie vets can still learn new 
tricks. 
You might see rappers wear basketball jerseys or rock stars in the stands at a baseball game, but no one tops Saint Etienne in their dedication to pro sports. A presence since the late '80s when elec­tro pop ruled the clubs, Saint Etienne is named after its favorite French football club, AS Saint-Etienne. 
But whether you call it football or soc­cer, the group's new album, "Tales From Turnpike House," has perched itself in the top 25 of the college radio chart for a 

.month -and deservedly so. "Tales" fea­tures delicately packaged electronic dance and pop songwriting courtesy of Bob Stanley and Pete Wiggs, with Sarah Cracknell's soft and mature vocals as a petite bow on top. All three-band mem­bers started out as music journalists, and they showcase their experience and knowledge in the electronic genres throughout "Tales." 
Saint Etienne has mastered the art of a successful electronic indie album, com­bining dance rhythms, elegant produc­tion, a friendly pop atmosphere and an element of sincerity in each track. 
Some songs, such as the sultry "Dream Lover," have more of an Air or Dean & Britta breezy delivery. Bass walks behind keyboards and soft percussion with brief interludes of seductive flutes and guitars here and there. Other tracks, like the personal "Milk Bottle Symphony," deliver a sprinting bassline and more of a typical electronic indie feeling, comparable to Postal Service's "Give Up." Other tracks stand out with less emphasis on electron­ic production, such as the open­

er "Side Streets" about. avoiding the spotlight, which sounds more like a Belle and Sebastian song. 
But the high­lights of the album are the dance tracks, without a doubt. "A Good Thing" takes you straight

Recommended tracks: 'I'm Falling,"Tales,"A Good 
to the dis­cotheque with a dance pop groove 

Thing,"Milk Bottle Symphony' and 'Dream Lover' 
similar to Kylie Minogue or Goldfrapp. The track features a triumphant riff of keys, bass and electronic percussion that moves the song forward like a good plot. 
In ''I'm Falling" the mechanical rhythm produced from the synths and electronic percussion melts into Cracknell's tender voice. Showing off their mastery of differ­ent songwriting styles, Saint Etienne don't waste a single track on their gem of an album. "Tales" is the first CD to come around in a long time to maintain an innocent attitude but also elements of excitement and euphoria. 
Listeners might not recognize Saint Etienne as Brit-pop veterans immediately, since they have yet to achieve main­stream popularity in America. Yet the class and maturity of their delivery make it clear that this group of former music journalists is the real deal, even if they take their name from a French football team that's near the basement in the standings. 

Unlike AS Saint Etienne's current sea­son, "Tales" is full of elation and bravado with touches of charm and glamour. Any pop music fan that has the energy to dance can appreciate Saint Etienne. Even though it's still early, 'Tales" is a serious contender for album of the year. 
At the beginning of the year, it was sur­prising Saint Etienne, British vets who released their latest record on an American hipster jazz label, would land in the ranks of Cat Power, Jenny Lewis or even The Strokes on the college music charts. But after just one listen, it's no surprise how Saint Etienne have achieved so much success with "Tales." 
Contact Joe Lattal at jlattal@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Thursday, March 2, 2006 
page 13 
SNITE SPOTLIGHT 
Monumental temple exhibit on display at Snite 
By SEAN SWEANY Scene Wrirer 
A majority of' pnopln envision ancient (;rnnk t.nmplns as massive structurns, like the Parthenon in Athnns. sur­rouruiPd hy stonn columns with many dn1~orations carved into the stonn on all sidns of' tlw building. What most poople do not rPalizo is that rnonumnntal strurturns lik1~ tlw Parthonon havn tlwir roots in a much oldor tnmpln without storw columns and carvings, tlw tIHll pIn 0 r zI' us and II era at Corinth, c;nHH~IL This tmnpln, which was t.hn first monumm1tal tnrnpln in andnnt Grnn1~n. is the subject of the 1~xhibition "Tho Gnrwsis of' Monumental Ardlit1~ctu rn in 
Hhodes' aim in the exhibit was to "create an architecture exhibit that was architecture." lie did not want his exhibit to merely display ancient Greek arehitecture, but he intended it to show visitors how to perform tho tasks of recreating the architecture. 
As visitors enter, they see simple fragments of stone blocks piled in a soomingly random order. These stones are literally the "building blocks" of the temple and worn used to eonstruct the wall. Direetly next to these is a massive, nearly to seale partial rncre­ation of' what tho tnmpln wall would havn looked like. A video shows how nnw blocks are formed in a process callnd "vacuum forming." This process crnates plastic replieas that look exaet­
ly like real 

c;rnnro: Tlw bloeks but
Snite Museum Exhibit
Corinth weigh much Projnct" at tho less. This
11The Genesis of Monumental
Sn ito Mus1~u m reeonstruetion of' Art. Architecture in Greece: allows visitors 
This exhibi­The Corinth Project" to see and tion, hnadnd by appreciate the Notrn Damn Through March 21 at the Snite ef'fort that goes p r 0 r ~~ s s 0 r into monu­Hobin Hhodns, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday and Wednesday mental arehi­prnsonts the 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Thursday through Saturday tceture. an~hitneture of 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. Sunday The other tlw 670 B.C. monumental tmnple and tho adm issio11 is free aspect of the 
mnans of roconstructi ng it. lin and a loam of' Notre Dame archi­toeturo studnnts began studying the remains of' this ancient temple in Gronco in 11JIJ5. After many years of measuring, examining and piecing together the remnants, Hhodes and his team dovcloped a means to reeonstruct how tlw temple might have looked. The eulmination of this is set out in the "Corinth Projeet" exhibit. 
Corinth temple 

on display at the "Corinth Project" is the intricate system of' interlocking roof tiles. After viewing several displays illustrating the nature and design of the tiles, visitors get to experience firsthand how Hhodes and his team were able to recreate the terra eotta tiles using modern methods. A video shows the process in real time, as actual tiles the team made are put together to show what a real roof would have looked like. 

After examining the various aspects of the architecture, an interactive com­puter station allows one to visualize how the elements of the roof and the walls come together to form the entire temple. Finally, the entire temple is on display in the form of a 1:25 scale model. 
This amazing model is accurate down to the smallest detail and is surround­ed by three screens that continually depict landscapes of Greece 111med by Hhodes. Hhodes says that this is one of the most important aspects of the exhibit because visitors eome to under­stand the "placement of this temple in the landscape for which it was con­structed." 
The panorama, enhanced by the 

sounds of bird songs, dnpicts bnautif'ul scenos of tho Greek countrysidn and affords visitors with a s1msn of' appreci­ation for tho total environment of thn temple at Corinth. 
"The Corinth Projeet" is onn of thosn rare museum exhibits that allows visi­tors to learn more about a topic in a hands on, instruetive manner that is fun at the same time. A trip to tlw Snito Museum to learn more about monu­mental arehitecturn at tho aneinnt tom­pie at Corinth is well worth it. 
"The Genesis of Monumental Architecture in Greece: Tho Corinth Projeet" continues through March 21 at the Snite Museum of Art. Admission is free. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
Fam_ed Irish perform_ers pay second visit to Notre Dam_e 
By SEAN SWEANY 
Seen~ Wrirer 
Sinco I1H12, traditional Irish musi­cians Tlw Chidtains havn bnon pnr­forming for audiences around the world, including Popo John Paul II. Tonight, tlw group will play in the Lnighton Conn~rt llall of' tho DeBartolo Cnntnr for tlw Perf'orming Arts (DPAC) f'or the seeond consecutive yoar. A high­light of' last yoar's DPAC snason, tho 2006 ClliH~nrt promises to be morn of' tho samn. 
Irish musician Paddy Moloney formed Tlw Chinrtains from several of' the top folk musicians in Ireland. The group pnrfornwd togethnr oeeasionally until 1975, when its members began playing tognthnr full time. Since then, band mnmbnrs have come and gone, but The Chieftains have eontinued to push the boundaries of' Irish music with their rich and varied melodies. 
Using traditional Irish instruments induding tlw Uilleann pipes, tin whis­tle, f'lute fiddle and a special drum called a bodhnin, The Chieftains have promoted the appeal of Celtic music worldwide. The band's lively Irish music is often mixed with influences of Spanish and Bluegrass musie to ereate a distinetivn, energetic melody that emerges in each of its 41 albums. 
During their four deeades together, The Chieftains have received numerous awards and accolades -including six Grammy awards, the distinction of being named Ireland's Musical Ambassadors and a pnrformance in front of 135.000,000 people during the Pope's visit to Ireland in 1979. Additionally, The Chieftains have eol­laborated with many of the world's top musieians, including Willie Nelson, Van Morrison and Miek Jagger. 
This world-renowned band is playing at Notre Uame in large part beeause of the efforts of DPAC executive direetor John Haynes. Ilaynns arranged the eon­certs for both last year and this year and believes that The Chieftains "should play at Notre Dame every year for as long as possible." Last year's eon­cert was immensely popular and this year's looks to be no dill'erent, as tiek­nts sold out within three days of the sale datn. 
As a speeial treat during the conenrt, Tho Chieftains will be performing joint­ly with the University's Symphony Orchestra. 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orehestra, conduetnd by Daniel Stowe, is comprised of more than 60 under­graduates, graduate students and facul­ty. The Symphony Orchestra performs several concerts on campus each year and traveled to California last winter for several well received performances. 
The opportunity for The Chieftains and the University Symphony Orchestra to play together was again facilitated by Haynes when he heard that Moloney had created several orchestral composi­tions that he was eager to perform in concert. The availability of the University Symphony Orchestra and its relatively low cost compared to other Symphony orchestras made the joint production possible. 
The two groups will play together again at a St. Patrick's Day concert in New York City's prestigious Carnegie Hall in two weeks. 
"The Chieftains and the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra at Carnegie Hall on St. Patrick's Day -that phrase speaks for itself," Haynes said. 
For those who will be in New York City for St. Patrick's Day, tickets are still available for the joint performance. 


Tonight, the two groups plan to play a variety of other songs in addition to Maloney's orchestral eompositions. The Chfef'tains also like surprisns, and the appearance of Irish daneers is not uncommon at their toe-tapping eon­certs. What is for certain is that The Chieftains and the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra will create an electric Celtic atmosphere in the Leighton Concert Hall for all to enjoy. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
Thursday, March 2, 2006 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Florida State upsets Duke in front of restless home crowd 
Premature court storming by fans leads to two technical foul shots, delays demise of Duke's perfect conference season 
Associated Press to the nation's elite, Foye and Ray took turns carrying the 
TALLAHASSEE, Pia. scoring load in each half of Florida State beat No. 1 Duke their final home game. for the second time in three The Red Storm (12-14, 5-10) years and the latest win had hung tight most of the game, quite an ending. still within single digits with 6 
Alexander Johnson's basket 1/2 minutes left, but simply did­with just over a minute left n't have enough to keep pace broke the game's final tie and with the Wildcats. Eugene the Seminoles went on to a 79-Lawrence and Lamont Hamilton 74 victory over the Blue Devils. each scored 15 points for the The fans stormed the court with Hed Storm. the Seminoles leading 77-72 and 1. 7 seconds left on the Texas A&M 46, No. 6 Texas 43 clock. The game was delayed COLLEGE STATION, Texas­several minutes until the floor Acie Law made a 3-pointer at could be cleared and Duke was the buzzer to give Texas A&M a awarded two free throws on a victory over Texas. technical foul against Florida The Aggies, who won their State for its players leaving the sixth straight, got a chance for bench area. the upset when Texas' P.J. 
J.J. Hcdick, who led Duke Tucker, apparently unaware of with 30 points, made the foul the time on the shot clock, drib­shots to make it a three-point bled around as it expired with game, but AI Thornton, who 5.9 seconds left. was fouled as the premature The Longhorns intentionally celebration began, made two fouled Law and after a timeout, free. throws for the final mar­he got the inbounds pass and gin. pulled up for a long 3 which 
The loss ended the run at an swished as the buzzer sounded, unbeaten Atlantic Coast sending a number of A&M fans Conference season for Duke onto the court. (27-2, 14-1). It was the second straight 
year the Aggies (19-7, 9-6) beat No. 2 Connecticut 66, South the Longhorns (24-5, 12-3) at Florida 53 home. They beat then-No. 9 
TAMPA, Fla. -Josh Boone Texas 7 4-63 last year. win the title outright with a vic­36 seasons. Tyler Hansbrough The Jayhawks (21-7, 12-3), scored 17 points and Denham tory over Purdue on Sunday. finished with 13 points and who have beaten Colorado 34 Brown added .16, helping No. 7 George Washington 89, Marcus Ginyard scored 10 as times in their last 35 meetings, Connecticut overcome cold St. Bonaventure 78 Kentucky 80, No. 11 North Carolina won for the had their 10-game winning shooting to hold off South OLEAN, N.Y. Danilo Tennessee 78 ninth time in 10 games. streak snapped on Saturday in Florida for coach Jim Calhoun's Pinnock and Maureece Rice KNOXVILLE, Tenn. This one turned into a rout an 80-55 loss at Texas. But 729th career win. teamed to key a 13-point run Randolph Morris scored 22 early, and the final margin was Texas A&M upset the 
UConn (26-2, 13-2 Big East) that helped George Washington points and Rajon Rondo added the largest in the 95-year histo­Longhorns 46-43 at the same squandered most of a double­extend the nation's longest win­16 and Kentucky held on to ry of the rivalry. The Cavaliers time Kansas was beating the digit lead built by scoring the ning streak to 17 games. beat Tennessee. (14-12, 7-8) had their final lead Buffs. first 18 points of the game. The It wasn't easy. The Wildcats (19-10, 9-6 at 7-5 and the last of three ties Kansas ends its regular sea­Huskies avoided a total collapse The Colonials (25-1, 15-0 Southeastern Conference) came when Hansbrough con­son at Kansas State on with Boone delivering a key Atlantic 10) needed to over­avenged the Volunteers' win in verted two free throws on the Saturday, while Texas hosts basket to help them pull away come a resilient Bonnies team Lexington last month that ensuing possession. Oklahoma on Sunday. after South Florida (6-22, 0-15) which led by as many six points snapped an eight-game losing pulled within 45-42 midway midway through the second streak in the series. No. 17 Florida 77, Georgia 66 No. 23 Iowa 65, Penn State 38 through the second half. half, and didn't relinquish the The Wildcats, still battling GAINESVILLE, Fla. -Joakim IOWA CITY, Iowa -Mike 
The victory moved Calhoun lead until there was 6:31 left. Florida for the East's No. 2 seed Noah had a career-high 37 Henderson scored 16 points and ahead of Norm Stewart into a George Washington needs for the SEC tournament, shuf­points and 11 rebounds to help Erek Hansen added 15 to help tie with Jerry Tarkanian for only to beat Charlotte in its reg­fled the lineup since the teams' Florida snap a three-game los­Iowa snap a two-game losing 14th on the career victories list. ular-season finale on Saturday last meeting. ing streak. streak. South Florida has lost a school­to become only the fourth A-10 C.J. Watson, JaJuan Smith Noah scored on layups, Iowa (21-8, 10-5 Big Ten) took record 17 straight game and school -and first since Saint and Chris Lofton each scored 15 dunks, putbacks, even a base­control midway through the first remained winless in its first Joseph's in 2003-04 -to go points for the Vols (20-6, 11-4). line drive. He was 19-of-22 half and led by double digits the season in the Big East. undefeated in conference play. from the free throw line, break­rest of the way. With the win, 
Michael Lee had 18 points for No. 13 North Carolina 99, ing Neal Walk's school record the Hawkeyes clinched a first­No. 4 Villanova 65, St. Bonaventure (8-18, 2-13). Virginia 54 for free throws made. Walk round bye for the Big Ten tour­St. John's 52 CHAPEL HILL, N.C. -David made 18 in 1968. nament and moved one step 
VILLANOVA, Pa. -Randy No. 9 Ohio State 56, Noel had 19 of his career-high Mike Mercer scored 16 points closer to its first undefeated sea­Foye and Allan Ray put on one Northwestern 53 26 points in the first half of the for the Bulldogs, who have lost son at home since 1965-66. final show for the home crowd. EVANSTON, Ill. -Terence final home game of his career, five of six. The Hawkeyes, who are 16-0 
Foye scored 14 straight points Dials scored 18 points and Ron Reyshawn Terry added 17 at home for the first time in for Villanova and finished with Lewis drove for a layup in the points and North Carolina No. 18 Kansas 75, Colorado 54 school history, finish up the reg­21, and Ray shook off a closing seconds to help Ohio rolled past Virginia. LAWRENCE, Kan. -Mario ular season by hosting sprained knee to score 15 in the State clinch at least a share of With the victory, the Tar Heels Chalmers hit two key 3-pointers Wisconsin on Saturday. Wildcats' win over St. John's. the Big Ten championship. (20-6, 11-4) clinched a tie for in the second half and Kansas Iowa buried any hopes the 
Two of the most instrumental The Buckeyes (22-4, 11-4), second place in the Atlantic beat Colorado to move back into Nittany Lions (14-13, 6-10) had players in returning the who lead No. 10 Illinois by a Coast Conference and reached a tie with Texas for first place for a comeback by opening the Wildcats (23-3, 13-2 Big East) game in the standings, could 20 victories for the 33rd time in in the Big 12. second half with an 11-0 run. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Chieftains tix. 273-9845 
FoR SALE 
A 4 bdrm, 2bth newly remodeled house near campus. $90,000. Call 220·8666. 
3 BDRM RANCH ON JUDAY LAKE .WALK TO CAMPUS. 329·0308 
1993 Volvo 850 GLT, superb condi· lion. 95,000 mi. $4200. 631·5082. 
FoR RENT 

WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED­ROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532·1408 
123 NDAve. 3-bdrm,1.5 bath. Call 574·229·0149. 
3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web site:mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary 574-993-2208 or grooms@ourwebspot.net 
COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINI­UMS AVAILABLE FOR 06·07 SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED­ROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY. 235­7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. 
A 4 bdrm. 2bth house near campus. All appliances included. Pets welcome. $1350. Call 220-8666. 
2-3-4 BEDROOMS. Immediate & 2006·07. Security,phone included. 315-3215. ndstudentrentals.com 
515 St.Joe: 7 bdrm,area of student rentals, $1200/mo. 
57 4-250· 7653 
1-7 bdrm. homes starting@ $200/student. 24-hr.maint. ,free pool tables, 1st mo.free. Call 574-250·7653 or visit bluegol· drentals.com 
3·6 BDRMS. $195/PERSON MO.,AVAIL.NOW, SUMMER,06/07 329·0308 
Furn.house Corby. 574·309·3105 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at 1·7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Fiddle found. Thanks a bunch JM -I owe you one. Orpheus. 
Man someone really needs to learn how to space out the classified page so there isn't this huge chunk of blank white space that we need to fill up or else we'd look really stu· pi d. 
Hoo·ah The five Olympic rings are so choosen because every flag of every country in the world contains at least one of those colors in it. 

The elephant is the only mammal that can't jump 
There is a country named Naura. People from Naurua are Nauruan. Nauruan is the only nationality in the world that is a palindrome. How bout that 
To all outward appearances it would be a leather bound edition of the Count of Monte Cristo by Alexander Dumas ... but it wouldn't be. It would be ... the lockbox. 

OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, March 2, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NHL 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
tnarn rncord · OTL points 
NY Rangers 35-15 8 78 Philadelphia 33·16 9 75 New Jersey 30·22 6 66 NY Islanders 25-27 4 54 Pittsburgh 14·34 11 39 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
tmun record OTL points 5 79
Ollawa 37·14 Buffalo 36·15 5 77 8 60
Montreal 26·22 Toronto 27·25 
5 59 Boston 24·24 
10 58 

Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
tnarn rneot·d OTI. points 
Carolina 39·14 4 82 
Tampa Bay 32·22 4 68 
Atlanta 26·26 6 58 
Florida 22·27 8 52 
Washington 19·32 5 43 
Western Conference, Central Division team record OTI.· points Detroll 39·13 5 83 
Nashville 34·18 6 74 
Columbus 23·33 2 48 
Chicago 18·31 8 44 
St. Louis 16·31 9 41 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record OTL points 
Calgary 33-17 7 73 
Vancouver 33-21 5 71 
Colorado 32·21 6 70 
Edmonton 30-20 8 68 
Minnesota 29·25 5 63 
Western Conference, Pacific Division team t'l~cord OTL points 
Dallas 38·17 3 79 Los Angeles 32·23 5 69 Anaheim 27·19 11 65 San Jose 27-21 8 62 Phoenix 27·28 4 58 
CCHA Hockey 
team conf overall 

1 Miami 20·6·2 23-7-4 2 Michigan State 14·7-7 20·10-8 3 Michigan 13·10·5 18·13·5 4 Northern Michigan 14·12·2 20·14·2 4 Nebraska-Omaha 12-10-6 18·12·6 6 Lake Superior 11·12·5 15·12-7 6 Ferris Slate 10·11-7 15·13-8 8 NOTRE DAME 11-13-4 15·14-5 8 Alaska-Fairbanks 11-13-4 13-17-4 10 Ohio State 11-14-3 15-1].5 11 Western Michigan 7-16-5 8·22·6 12 Bowling Green 8·18·2 13·21·2 
NFL 


Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -To the booming strains of rock music, the Indianapolis Colts announced Wednesday that Lucas Oil Products Inc. had won the right to name the team's new horne field Lucas Oil Stadium -news the eom­pany's CEO jokingly called the "worst-kept secret in the world." 
Forrest Lucas said he had hoped to keep a lid on the news that his California-based company had reached a 20-year sponsorship deal with the Colts worth $121.5 million. 
The deal includes the naming rights for the 63,000-seat, retractable­roof stadium, set to open in 2008. 
As it turned out, word had leaked out two days earlier, derailing Lucas' plans. 
"Boy was this the worst­kept secret in the world," Lucas said, generating laughter in the crowd that turned out. Lucas, who was born and grew up in southern Indiana, said he was delighted that his company had won the right to name the stadium for the NFL team in his home state. 
He said Colts fans will get used the name or the new $500 million stadium, which will replace the HCA Dome, where the Colts have played since the team moved from Baltimore in 1984. The new stadium is scheduled to open in time for the 2008 NFL season. 

"I know a lot of people are saying, 'Lucas Oil ­that doesn't roll orr your mouth very good, Lucas Oil Stadium,"' he said, smil­ing. "But after you do it a few times it will." 
Under the 20-yfHtr agreement filed with the Marion County Capital Improvement Board, Lucas will pay an average of $6.1 million a year starting in 2008. RCA currently pays $1.3 million a year for the naming rights to thl'! HCA Dome Lucas, 64, recount­ed his humble beginnings during his short speech, saying he was "born kind or poor," the son of a bricklayer. 
A former truck driver, he said he worked hard to open a small trucking company bnfore starting Lucas Oil Products in 1989. 
Thn Corona, Calif.-based company has grown into a leading maker of heavy duty and high perform­ance lubricants used in the trucking industry and auto racing. 

around the dial 
NBA Cleveland at Chicago, 7 p.m., TNT 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 

Wisconsin at Michigan State, 7 p.m., 
ESPN 
Syracuse at DePaul, 9 p.m., 
ESPN2 
Memphis at UAB, 9 p.m., 
ESPN2 

Charleston Southern at Coastal Carolina, 
9:30 p.m., ESPNU 
IN BRIEF 
Bonds to star in ESPN2 
reality series 
Barry Bonds' reality TV show chronicling the slugger during his pursuit of flank Aaron's career home run record will debut April 4 on ESPN2. the network announced Wednesday. 
The show, titled "Bonds on Bonds" and produced by Mike Tollin and Brian Hobbins, will offer a weekly behind-the-scenes look at Bonds and the San Francisco Giants throughout thn season. Bonds, who turns 42 in July, enters 2006 with 708 homers, seven shy of passing Babe Huth and 48 from breaking Aaron's mark. 
"It was over 10 years ago when Mike Tollin interviewed me for the Hank Aaron documentary and I said at the time that no one will ever get close to 755," Bonds said in a state­ment. "At the age of 42 to finally have a chance to catch legends like Babe and Hank is really a mind­blowing honor." 
Crosby refuses to criticize 
Team Canada 
Sidney Crosby's only regret about the Olympics is he won't be able to play in them for another four years, not that he was passed over for the just-conduded Winter Games. 
The Penguins' rookie star dedined again Wednesday to criticize Team Canada officials for bypassing him despite the Canadians' poor showing in Turin, Italy, where they failed to reach the semifinals four years after winning the gold in Salt Lake City. 
"When I watched the first game, it was tough because I think that was the time I realized it's probably going to be another four years before I had the opportunity," Crosby said. 
"After that, I just became a fan. I was pulling for them and I wanted them to do well." 
"It's unfortunate it didn't, but I said before Canada had a lot of expecta­tions and they're not going to win gold every time." 

Guerrero will not play in 
World Baseball Classtc 
Vladimir Gunrrero pulled out of the World Baseball Classic on Wednesday, saying he will not play for the Dominican Hepublic because of the recent deaths of his thnH~ cousins. 
Fernando Guerrero, 2(>, Salvadore Carmona, 25, and llenry Guerrero. 23, were killed in a ear accidm1t last weekend while driving from Don Gregorio to San Cristobal in the Dominican Hnpublie. 
Guerrero took Monday and Tuesday ofT from spring training drills with the Los Angeles Angels after learning of their deaths. lie said Wednesday at Angels camp that he was very close to his cousins and he would not be able to focus enough on baseball to represent his country in the WBC. 
"I feel mentally that I cannot go out there and play and compete for my country," Guerrero said. 
--~-~-----,-­ .......  --~---~­ --~---------------------,  
page 16  The Observer+ SPORTS  Thursday, March 2, 2005  
NFL  

League owners, players talk revenue sharing 
Teams fear cap limits; begin to dump high­priced veteran play~rs 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -NFL owners will try Thursday to find labor peace before the start of free agency, hoping to avoid the rp.ass dumping of veterans for salary-cap reasons. 
The owners will meet in New York, looking to reach an agreement with the players' union that could add $10 mil­lion to $15 million to a 2006 salary cap that currently is pro­jected at about $95 mi-llion. Without it, some teams could be forced into wholesale cuts to get beneath the cap by mid­night. Free agency starts Friday. 
Three days of talks between the league and the NFL Players Association to extend the agreement that runs out in 2008 ended Tuesday with the sides far apart on the percent­age of league revenues ear­marked for players. Gene Upshaw, the union's executive director, said the league is offering to 56.2 percent of its total revenue for the players, almost four points lower than the union's. 
"Our number has to start with a six," Upshaw said. 
But beyond the numbers is an issue that has divided the own­ers for two years -revenue sharing among the teams. 
Under the current system, some teams make far more than others in ancillary income, ranging from local radi~ rights to stadium naming rights and advertising. The lower revenue teams say that forces them to commit as much as 70 percent of that money to the players while teams with more outside money contribute far less, giv­ing the high-revenue teams more available cash for upfront bonuses to free agents. 
The NFL said in a statement after talks broke off that rev­enue sharing won't be dis­cussed at Thursday's meeting. 
Still. it is bound to come up during a meeting that on the surface is considered a strategy session to determine the own­ers' next move. Labor negotia­tions often have a way of being moved forward by deadlines, and revenue sharing is consid­ered a critical part of the for­mula. 

Under the current agreement, 2006 is scheduled to be the last year with a salary cap. An uncapped year in 2007 means new rules that will force teams and agents to change their plans this year and could keep a lot of teams out of the free­agent market entirely. 
"It might mean that no rook­ies get signed because no one is sure of the long-term ramifica­tions," said Tom Condon, the agent for a number of the game's top players. 
Even more urgent are salary­cap ramifications for many teams, which anticipated a­labor agreement and planned for a much bigger ceiling. Washington, for example, could be as much as $25 million over the salary cap after signings over the past few years that anticipated a salary cap figure well over $100 million. 
The ramifications of a lower than anticipated cap were evi­dent Wednesday, when some high-priced veterans were cut. Among them were· defensive end Trevor Pryce and running back Mike Anderson of Denver, the team's leading rusher last season. Denver also cut tight end Jeb Putzier. 
Buffalo, meanwhile, released defensive tackle Sam Adams and Carolina released three veterans: running back Stephen Davis, defensive tackle Brentson Buckner and kicker returner Rod Smart, "He Hate Me" of old XFL days. 
Miami cut left tackle Damion Mcintosh, saving $3.8 million against the cut. The Dolphins are a prime example of a team that needs a new labor agree­ment: They are estimated to be about $9 million over a $95 million cap, but would be under it if the agreement is reached. 
Other teams seem ready for whatever happens. 
"We're in pretty good shape," New· York Giants general man­ager Ernie Accorsi said. 
ECDC 2006-07 Registration 
The Early Childhood Development Center at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame (ECDC) is currently registering for the 2006 Summer program and the 2006-07 School Year. 
Registration Due Dates: 2/15/06 2006-07 Kindergarten Registration 3/1/06 . 2006 Summer Program 4/3/06 2006-07 School Year 
For more information please call ECDC-SMC: 284-4693 or ECDC-ND: 631-3344. 



NOW SELLING 
FROM THE 1705 
UNITS 
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 

-WALK TO CAMPUS -2-3 STORY FLOORPLANS -2 CAR ATTACHED GARAGES -2.5+ BATHROOMS -2-4 BEDROOMS 
MODEL OPEN WED-FRI 12-6PM SAT-SUN 12-SPM 


~'.)):·: ~~~~ ., {j::::::.:.: 
FURNISHED MODEL OR 




Class of 2009 
Run-Off Election 
Today 
(March 2) 
Vote Online from BAM-BPM https:llapps.nd..edulelections 
If you have any election questions, please email jcouncil@nd.edu 
Thursday, March 2, 2006 page I 7
The Observer • SPORTS 

NCAA SPORTS 
NCAA identifies 65 schools violating acaden1ic standards 
biggest eonfernnces to be sanc­the scholarship away from the
Notre Dame included 
tioned in football or men's bas­athlete's team. in eight schools that ketball, the primary money­Sacramento State had the makers for most athletic most teams affected (six) and
earned superior marks departm~mts, was DePaul of the could face the loss of as many Big East. It eould lose one as 2.3 scholarships in football. scholarship in men's basketball Prairie View A&M in Texas was 
Associated Press 
next year. among the hardest hit schools. 
INDIANAPOLIS-Teams at Nationwide, 99 teams could As many as 10 athletes in five h5 schools -induding Texas, losn scholarships as narly as sports could lose scholarship Tnnnnssee and West Virginia -next fall. The new academic money, including 5.3 scholar­failed to meet tho NCAA's nnw points system requires each ships in football alone. a1~adnrnie stan­team to meet The NCAA also released a list dards and now minimum of schools that consistently out­faen the loss of requirements performed its baseline stan­
"Obviously, ({you 

scholarships for or faee the dards. Among those were their poor received a penalty in potential loss of Brown, Harvard, Yale, Notre gradns. this round, you need to scholarship Dame, the three U.S. military But don't look money when academies and William and
find out what's wrong." 

for any of tho academically Mary. North Carolina and biggest namns ineligible ath-Illinois, the two teams that in football or Walter Harrison letes leave reached last year's NCAA men's basketball on University of Hartford school. No basketball championship game, the list released school can lose were both among the top 10
president

Wednesday by more than 10 percent academically in that llw NCAA of percent of its sport. those lagging behind in the scholarships. And if the ineligi­Overall, NCAA officials were classroom. ble scholarship athlete stays in pleased with the improvement 
The only school in the six school, tho NCAA will not take made since last year when 
···············································~ 
~ ...· University Resources : •••• 
for Gay, Lesbian, & •••• 
•
• Bisexual Students 
e ••••••• 
e COI\I ... ITT£:1: ON GAY AND .....IAN e STUI»!!NT N!!J::D!S 
•
• The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or !i'tudent members (see 1-veb site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry It 
(Aruma] retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students • ••••and their friends; pertinent library resources in 
•

304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) 
Contact: Fr. Dick Warner, C.S.C., at I -9704 
•
•
• University Counseling Center 
(lndi vidual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Ll~jfert,v at Lafferty.3@nd.edu •
• 
•
• For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsnl
•
•
• 
about 6 percent of sports teams better and get better quick made the list. Fewer than 2 because those adjustments will percent of teams were pnnal­get smaller and eventually go ized this year. away." 
"We want people to know that Football teams fared t.he if you're going to play our worst, followed by baseball and games, you're going to be a stu­men's basketball. Nine women's dent," NCAA president Myles programs were sanctioned, Brand said. compared with 
Brand said a 90 men's teams. statistical Six schools ­
"We want people to 
adjustment, Florida · A&M,
know that ifyou're
similar to the .Jacksonville margin of error going to play our Statll, Murray in public opin­State in
games, you're going to 
ion polls, Kentucky,
be a student. " 
helped some Nicholls State in schools avoid Louisiana, the list. Kevin Myles Brand Tennessee­Lennon, the Chatanooga and
NCAA president 
NCAA's vice Tennessee-president of Martin -all membership received the services, said 63 schools also maximum penalty in Division 1­received waivers based primari­M football, 6.3 scholarships. ly on their institutional mission "Scholarship reductions in statement; 16 were rejected. any sport are not easy to 
The NCAA may not be so for­accept," said Hawaii athletic giving in the future when the director IIerman Frazier, whose statistical adjustment is phased school could lose five scholar­out and repeat offenders ships in football and one in become subject to harsher baseball. "I have spoken to the penalties such as postseason coaches of both sports involved bans and the loss of tournament and impressed on them a need money. Some university oflicials for improvement to avoid these hope that sends an 1wen scholarship reductions in the stronger message . future." 
"Obviously, if you received a Only seven teams in the six penalty in this round, you need power conferences -Atlantic to find out what's wrong," said Coast Conference, Big East, Big Walter Harrison, president of Ten, Big 12, Southeastern the University of Hartford . Conference and Pac-1 0 -wnre 
"Those institutions need to get sanctioned. 
What Next in Iraq? 
www.francisforuscongress.com 

YOURUFE DOESN'T BEGIN 
FIVE POUNDS 
FROM NOW! 
Astep-by-step plan for 
creating apowerful and 
healthy self-image 
"jessica Weiner is truly a positive force in America's culture." -Emme 
"When jessica speaks, women listen. I just love her!" -Leeza Gibbons 


Pick up n copy tod.o.y, un.d sto.rl loui.n.g the skin you're in. . 
Available wherever books are sold • Visit www.JessicaWoiner.com mi: Simon Spotlight Entertainment • Simon & Schuster • www.SimonSaysTheSPOT.com 
TillS WEEii IS NATIONAL EATING DISORDEH...') AWAHENESS WEEK 

Saturdav, March 4 
vs. Depaul at4pm 
First 500 fans will receive a Notre Dame wallet sponsored by 
CHASEO 
One lucky fan will win 2 round-tJ·ip tickets on 
~ 
to their choice of Las Vegas or Orlando! 


page 18 Thursday, March 2, 2006 
The Observer+ SPORTS 


Kelllp 
continued from page 24 
essential ingredient to a defense that allowed 94 goals last year, the second-fewest in Notre'Dame history. 
"There's more pressure," said Kemp. "Everyone's look­ing at you to play solid and be a leader back there. And in the position I play I have to be a leader -the quarterback of the defense." 
Kemp earned that trust last year by leading the nation with a .652 save percentage and being named a second team All-Great Western Lacrosse League selection and GWLL Hookie of the Year. 
''I've grown into that role. Last year I had to gain the trust of the upperclassmen.." 
Accolades aside, Corrigan feels the team's trust in Kemp as a leader emanates from the presence he has in the net. 
"lie's just a very poised kid," he said. "He d11esn't get rattled if he lets one in or makes a great save. He stays in there and looks to make the next play. lie's back there taking care of his job." 
Corrigan knew he caught himself a player when he plucked Kemp out of Potomac, Md., where Kemp, the team's MVP, captained Georgetown Prep to a 22-1 record and No. 1 national ranking by Inside Lacrosse magazine. But with 18 seasons of experience in reeruiting and developing Irish athletes, Corrigan knows the gap between high school and college competition, and he says he could not have asked for the better perform­ance by a freshman goalie. 

"Now we knew he was very talented and going to be a good goalie," he said. "But you don't expect that. He's been everything and more than we thought he could be." 
Corrigan credits Kemp's fundamentals as the key to succeeding so early in his col­lege career. 
"Technically he's very sound," he said. "His position­ing and footwork are textbook ... He's competitive as the dickens." 
Corrigan is appreciative of Kemp's older brother C.J., an "outstanding goalie" at Fairfield (Conn.) University who now plays in the Major League Lacrosse circuit, and credits him with being instructive resource for Joey. 
Kemp is in his second year protecting the net for an Irish team looking to an improved defense to stimulate a post­season birth. And the sopho­more sensation hopes to fill those shoes -and the net­and be a defensive catalyst. Kemp's plan this year is as fundamentally sound as his game is -don't let as many balls by. 
"Last year we were around a nine or 10 [goals against average]," he said. "This year it'd be great to be around six. You won't Jose many games when you're giving up around six every game." 
His ambitions, if they come true, would give the Irish an outstanding record. Last year the Irish scored at least six goals themselves all but once. 
While Notre Dame tallied eight goals in last week's sea­son opener, Kemp and compa­ny held No. 14 Penn State to four, the lowest allowed since a 12c2 triumph over Air Force two years ago. 
Kemp, however, was disap­pointed. 
"We actually should've given up two," he said. "They scored two off failed clear­ings." 
According to Kemp, most of the credit for limiting Nittany Lion scoring opportunities last week goes to an overall improved team defense that punished attackmen and kept them from reaching the net. 
"Last year we had to try to have a physical game," he said. "This year, it comes kind· of natural." 
By uncluttering Kemp's workspace, he has been able to flourish. 
"It's a great help ~o have four great defensemen," he said. ''I'm seeing shots. I know where they're coming from. It's a lot easier for me to save those shots." 
Corrigan simplified Kemp's success to great goaltending. 
"Everything that does or does not go in has to go by him," he said. "He made the saves he should have had and some he shouldn't. Whenever you get great goaltending, [the goalie] steals some. We've gotten used to Joey doing that." 
Driscoll sure has. 
"Knowing we have Joey back ... takes a little pressure off me," he said. "He's been awesome since the second he stepped in the cage." 
It is hard to imagine that was only a year ago. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
Foote 

continued from page 24 
the Bobcats. 

"Ohio always considers us a rival," Foote said. "The past couple years they've always played us hard, wanting to win." 
Foote set Notre Dame's sin­gle game scoring record Sunday, tallying nine goals and two assists for 11 points. 
"To be honest I didn't even realize how many goals I had scored until the end of the game," Foote said. "My team­
mates just set me "The past couple the hard work up nicely and I just years they've is paying off," shot and scored. I Foote said.
always played us
think that it was a "We still know, 
great feeling hard, wanting to however, that because our team win. u it's only two played so well games and we together that day." have so much
Crysti Foote

Beyond Foote's more to performance, the Irish attack improve. 
freshman class made an impressive debut. Rookie Jillian Byers also set a Notre Dame record as she notched five goals and two assist -giving her the freshman scoring record. 
"Our freshmen are awe­some," Foote said. "We had the number one recruiting class in the country and it shows. They are great contrib­utors on and ofT the field and we couldn't have gotten a bet­ter group of girls. I am so proud and impressed by all of them." 
With scorers already emerg­ing, Notre Dame matches up favorably with the struggling Bobcats, as the Irish hope to implement a smothering offensive and defensive game plan. 
"We must come out tomor­row play a full sixty minute game without stupid mis­takes," said Foote. "This is our first home game, so every­one will be excited. Offensively, we can definitely beat them in a fast break. Defensively, we hope to imple­ment an aggressive attack to force turnovers." 
Though the Irish have had a strong start, they are careful not to get overconfident so early in the season. 
"It is evident 
from the past 
two games all 
Everyone is willing to sac­rifice at all times." 
With two wins already, this year's squad is likely to improve on the record of the 2005 team that finished 3-12. Foote, for one, is hoping the strong start will carry on throughout the season. 
"I made school history doing what I love on a field in 70 degree weather, what could be better than that?" Foote said. "But I really hope our team wins (the national champi­onship]. A ring on my finger would be more fulfilling then scoring goals." 
Contact Chris Williams at 
cwilli11@nd.edu 

Off-Campus Housing 
5 

Hurry: Only4 properties left for 2006-2007 s~hool year 
• 
Close to campus • Student neighborhoods • Internet-ready 

• 
Security systems • 24-hour maintenance staff • Dishwashers 


• Washers & dryers 

910 Miner  921 Cedar  1005 Cedar  610 N. St. Peter  716 Notre Dame  815 E. Wayne  
• 3 bedrooms  • 3 bedrooms  • 3-4 bedrooms  • 5 bedrooms  • 4 bedrooms  • I 0 Bedrooms  
• I bathroom  • 2 bathrooms  • 2 bathrooms  • 2 bathrooms  • 2 bathrooms  • 4 bathrooms  
• Central air  • Office  • Fenced-in backyard  • Off-street parking  • Fenced-in backyard  • Two kitchens  
• Deck  • Fenced-in backyard  • Newly remodeled  • Deck  • Lots of common area  
• Off-street parking  • Storage garage  • Newly remodeled  • Newly remodeled  
• Newly remodeled  

Call today -properties rent quickly. Contact Kramer at (5741 315-5032 or (5741 234-2436 
For more information, visit www.kramerhouses.com 

Thursday, March 2, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
Win 
continued from page 24 
rebounds and bncamo tho main Irish scoring option when ()uinn and guard Colin Falls (six points, 2-of-7 shooting) rould not gnt opnn. lin also 
sorurod livn oiTnn­"It was just one (~/' sivn rPbounds and those things where 
knpt sEwnral pos­
you know you have 

snssions alivo with !.ips or robounds. to get this win. " "It was just onn of thoso things 
Torin Francis

wlwrn you know 
Irish center 

you havn to got this win. so I just startml attacking tlw basket aggrossivnly," Francis said. "Tiwn I think that energy rublwd off on nvnryone elsn." 
Tlu1 Irish also switched in­and-out of zonn and man ddnnsos throughout tho gamo to rattle tho Friars' shooters. l'rovidnncn frnshrnan guard 
Sharaud Curry led all scorers because of our defense." with 25 points, but Notre Dame Quinn did not explode for 31 suc!~oednd in keying on points on 11-of-14 shooting as Providnnen guard Donnie he did Jan. 14 against the Md;rath and prevented him Friars, but he doferred to team­from glllting more than a few mates in the teams' second opnn looks. meeting. 
McGrath, who entered the Once Francis seored with gamo with a team-high' 15.4 8:45 remaining in the lirst half 
points per game to give Notre Dame a 19-18 scoring average advantage, Providence could in conl'erenee not regain the lead until for­play, played all ward Geoff McDermott hit 1-of­40 minutes but 2 foul shots at the 7:05 mark of scornd just nine the second half to put the points on 3-ol'-13 Friars up, 60-59. shooting, repli­But Notre Dame answered cating an nqually the threat with a 9-0 run frustrating 3-ol'-sparked by two Franeis free 12 shooting effort throws. Franeis eompletod the in Providonee's run with a bucket to make the 92-77 loss to seonl 68-60 with about four 
Notre Dame at tlw Joyce Center minutes to go. And though Jan. 14. Providence center Herbert Hill 
"Coach Brey wanted us to converted an old-fashioned 3­switch back from zone to man, point play to eut the lead to 68­man to zone, and that was real 63, Carter, Quinn, Falls and effective," Francis said. "They freshman guard Kyle were hot early, but they weren't McAlarney (11 points, 3-of-4 3­shooting like that all game pointers) made key baskets and 
4.0 Student Living At Notre Dame 
•, 
(888) 278-5962 
New Look. Better Lifestyle. Still Closest To Campus. 
Walk to Campus 
• 
Covered Patting 

• 
Laundry Faciities On S~e 


• Wireless Internet 
NOW LEASING FOR 2006! 
Mention This Ad And The Application Fee Is FREE! 
Apply Online At www.campuscribs.net 
1710 E. Turtle Creek Drive South Bend. Indiana 46637 Turtlecreek-IN@aimco.com 

foul shots down the stretch to Beginning with a McAiarnny fend off the Friars, who inched 3-pointer to make the score 22­to five points with a minute­18 Irish, Notre Damn and and-a-half remaining but could Providence combined to hil live not get closer. straight 3-point baskets, with 
Notre Dame takes a 10-9 all­McAlarney hitting a second time series lead against from deep to give his toam a Providence with the victory. 28-24 lead. 
Carter, who played only four That was part of a stretr.h in minutes against the Friars Jan. whieh Notm Dame made night 14, tilled Quinn's scorer's role linld goals on eight. eonsncutivn in the. lirst half by dropping 13 possessions. unl'aznd by tlw points in the first 20 minutes. Snnior Night atmosphnro of tho He made 5-of-7 field goals, Dunkin Donuts Cnntnr. including 2-of-4 "With th(l 3-pointers, in amount or places that stretch. "We've played in wo'vn playnd, it 
Both teams got wasn'.t a vnry
much more hostile
off to sluggish intimidating 
overall starts, environments. hut atmosphnrn." though they still had the Francis said. Providence pre­"We'vn playnd in
advantage playing 
vailed in the much more hostiln 
on their home 
early minutes. environments, but With the Irish in jloor." they still had tho man-to-man advantagn playing defense, the on their homn
Torin Francis
Friars found floor. They worn in 
Irish center
lanes to drive tho samn position and kick, opening as us." a 5-0 lead early Thn tnams trad­and a 10-5 advantage (4-ol'-7 nd baskets and Quinn sank his shooting) at 15:25. first basket with 1:52 to givn 
Providence's Curry scored 16 the Irish a ton-point load, and points in the hall' to lead all Providenee seorPd the final six scorers. points or t.lw hall'-inr.luding a 
But Cornett hit 1-ol'-2 free Curry lay up ol'f' a Mc<;rath throws, and then Notre Dame stnal. when Quinn turnnd t.hn switch,ed to a match-up zone, ball ovnr as Notrn Damn lwld forcing throe Providence for thn last shot. turnovnrs in the next four min­Notre Dame lnd 42-:~8 at. thn utes. hall'. 
McGrath hit a 3-pointer with 14 minutes remaining to givn Notes: tho Friars a 13-6 lead. but the ESPN Thn Magazine has Irish went on a 9-0 run, named Quinn to its Men's sparked by consecutive Cartnr Basketball University Division baskets and four points from Academic AII-Amnriea First Rob Kurz to take a 15-13 lead Team, making Quinn tho sev­at 11:33. enth player in thn histor·y of 
Neither team eould miss just Notrn Dame men's basketball to minutes later. earn Academic All-America 
honors. 
Quinn is the first Irish men's basketball player since Pat Garrity (Orlando Magie) to earn
LOOKING FOR AN EXCITING JOB? the award. Garrity narnod tho honor in both 1997 and 1998. Notro Damn is thn only sehool GOOD. BECAUSE RED BULL IS 
to have a nwn's and wonwn's 
player (point guard Mngan 
Duffy) honored as Academic
LOOKING FOR ASTUDENT BRAND Ali-Amorieans this year. 
Contact Pat Leonard at 
pleonard@nd.edu
MANAGER ON YOUR CAMPUS! 


To find out more and to apply go to www.redbullu.com or text the word SBM to 72855 

page 20 Thursday, March 2, 2006 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

OIN 

Thursday, March 2, 2006 
Catholic Q&A How often should Igo to Confession? 
The Church does not offer any definite frequency that one must re­
ceive the Sacrament of Reconciliation, except to say that one who has attained 
the age of reason (normally, age seven) is "bound by an obligation faithfully to 
confess serious [mmtal] sins at least once ayear" (CCC 1457). (Keep in mind 
that this is not so much a recommendation for action as it is abare minimum for 
membership, as the Church also requires us to receive Holy Communion at least 
once ayear, but of course the majority of practicing Catholics receive it much 
more frequently.) The Catechism goes on to state that, "Anyone who is aware 
of having committed amortal sin must not receive Holy Communion, even if he 
experiences deep contrition [sorrow for sin 1. without having first received sac­
ramental absolution'' (1457). If he does. one may be even worse off. as he "eats 
and drinks judgment on himself' ( l Cor II :29). 
By the term "serious sins." the Church is referring to especially grave 
sins, also known as mortal sins, which are those that "destroys charity [love] 
in the heart of man by agrave violation of God's law; it turns man away from 
God" (CCC 1855). Scripture provides many lists of sins that might well qualify 
as serious: "fornication, impurity, licentiousness [lacking moral discipline or 
restraint, especially in sexual matters], idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, 
anger, selfishness, dissension, factions, envy, drunkenness, carousing, and the 
like" (GalS: 19-21). 

While not explicitly necessary, the Church also sees the value in confessing Jesser venial sins regularly as well, that we might all be continually encouraged to grow in holiness by following after Jesus Christ in all things. However, this must be balanced well to avoid the tendency towards scrupulosity, where one tries to find sin in oneself even when there is none to find. If you have questions regarding what is s.in and what is not, a solid confessor should help you discern what truly does need to be confessed. Agood rule of thumb that Itry to follow is to receive the Sacrament of Confes­sion about once a month. or whenever Ifeel in my heat1 that I have done some­thing for which Iespecially need to seek forgiveness from God. 
Schedule of Confessions in the Basilica 
ll:00-11:30am (M·F) 4:45·5~ 15pm (M·F) 7:00·7:30pm (M·Th) 
Keep an eye out for other Lenten opportunities to receive the Sacrament at the Basilica or in your Residence Hall! 
Send uestions to Brett Perkins: Perkins.26@nd.edu! 
Phone 
1-7800 
Main Office 319 CoMo 
Retreats Office 
114 CoMo

Campus Ministry 
Web 

If you asked Mark Vilardo about his 
contributions to Notre Dame. his response 
probably consist of a mixture of him talking 
about being the Captain of the Siegfried Hall 
Bowling team, and a rambling dissertation on 
why Buffalo, NY is the best city in the world. 
Luckily for everyone reading this, Mark is not 
the author, and now Ican focus on all the real 
service Mark does for the Notre Dame commu­
nity. Mark's commitment to service starts where 
he lives, in Siegfried Hall. As asenior, Mark is 
aResident Assistant and cornerstone of the Sieg­
fried Hall community. Mark's commitment to 
Siegfried cannot be shown any more clearly 
through last weekend, when Mark was in charge 

of running the Siegfried Hall Retreat. That 
sacrificed awhole weekend, on top of all of 
his normal RA duties, to minister to his brother 
Ramblers shows the tme nature of his charac­
ter. Although the activities already described 
would certainly warrant Mark to be featured as 
an example of faith, he is active in ministering in 
many other ways as well. 
Mark approaches his involvement with 
Campus Ministry with the same zeal he serves 
Siegfried Hall. Mark has been a leader on 
teams that have helped to run both Sophomore 
Road Trip as well as NDE #88. Both of these 
retreats serve as great ways for students to grow 
in their faith. and Mark has been an integral part 
of both retreat endeavors. Mark finds time to 
pm1icipate in all of this in the midst of his Major 
in Finance, membership in the Glee Club and 
participation in other service organizations. 
Luckily for Campus Ministry, we have 
booked Mark to help with one more activity. 
Mark will help lead a Night of Reflection for the 
new RAs selected for next year. The new RAs 
will certainly benefit from Mark's example, as 
well as his encyclopedic knowledge of all things 
related to Buffalo. Mark, Campus Ministry 
aheartfelt debt of gratitude to you for all of your 
help. When you graduate and move back home, 
Notre Dame's loss will certainly be Buffalo's 
Let us know who out there is making adifference! Send nominations to Brian Vassel at bvassel nd.edu 
....--------------------------------------------------------------------~­
Thursday, March 2, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS 
USA SOCCER 
U.S. team weathers Poland 
Dempsey's goal good enough to squeak out victory in snowstorm 
Associa1ed Press 
KAISEBSLAUTEHN, Germany -The last time Clint Dempsey played in a snowstorm, the match was reduced to a ponalty-kick shootout rather than going the f'ulliJO minutes. 
That was in Toxas when he was playing dub socc11r. 
On Wednesday night, Dompsoy and tlw U.S. tnarn dcfiod the elemnnts and beat Poland 1-0 in a World Cup 
tuneup played  in  blizzard  
wnditions.  
In  a  sc~o ne  rn ore  befitting  

I.arn beau Field than a soccer l'iold, llompsey sc:ored the only goal ofT a misplay by Poland's goalie in tlw 48th 111 inute. 
"I nnvnr playod in a game 
wlwn that much snow came in at the same time," Dempsey said. "I never saw little flurries turn into big snow like that. 
"The ball kept bouncing around here and there." 
It bounced perfectly on Dompsey's fortuitous goal. Eddie Lewis made a superb long pass from the left wing into the penalty area. Goalkeeper Artur Boruc, who entered to start the second half, tried to punch it away. Instead, the ball deflected ofT the head of U.S. forward Taylor Twcllman directly to Dempsey. 
All Twcllman's teammate with the New England Bevolution had to do was head it into a gaping net. 
"The defender thought the goalie was going to get it, and it caused him to hesitate a bit. And I was able to get behind him and get one in the back of the net," Dompscy said. 
"lin apologized for his mis­
TlRISJI€-31 
FRIDAY NIGHT 
• FREE CCDA PlAYOFF 

T-SBIRT TO FIRST 300 FANS (GATES OPEN AT 8:30) 
•FREE PAPA .looN's PIZZA TO EARLY ND/SMC/DCC STUDENTS 
take, but that's not enough," Poland coach Pawel Janas said of Boruc. "You need to concentrate more." · 
The next time the United States plays at Fritz-Walter­Stadion, it probably will be 50 degrees warmer, with no sign of snow and a frosty wind. 
By the midpoint of the sec­ond half, the swirling snow made heading the ball an adventure and trying to make cuts a dangercius proposition. In the final minutes, referee Thorsten Kinhofer even went to a yellow ball so it would contrast against the white blanket on the field. 
''I'm not sure the snow was an advantage for anybody,". 
U.S. coach Bruce Arena said. "We have been training in California, our domestic play­ers, for seven weeks." 
And they certainly didn't see any California weather out there Wednesday. 
The conditions controlled play more than either team. 
SA1,URDAY NIGHT 
• 1fIN A SEMESTER OF BOOKS 
FROM THE HAMMES NO BooKSTORE 
•FREE PAPA .JOHN'S PIZZA TO 
EARLY ND/SMC!DCC STUDENTS 

page 21 
MLB 

Ran1irez shovvs at Red Sox can1p, as expected 
Outfielder shy about future with Red Sox 
Associated Press 

FOHT MYEHS, Fla. -Manny Hamirez showed up for work Wednesday like other 9-to-5ers, an employee paid to do his job even if he might prefer to move to another company-or team. 
There were some glaring dif­ferences, though. 
The Boston Hed Sox lnf't fielder arrived at spring training with his agents and others in a pair of' luxury vehicles: one copper, one silver. lie sported dark orange dreadlocks and was on the base­ball lield for only an hour. lie showed up, with the team's approval. one day after the mandatory reporting date. 
The sluggnr declined several 
FREE ADIIISSION FOB ND/SIIC/DCC STUDENTS (WHILE SUPPLIES lAST) 

opportunities to say he's happy to still be with the tnam after he asked to be traded following last season. 
''I'm hnre. I'm lwre," Hamirnz said when asknd if hn's happy to bn with Boston. 
lin also said hn wouldn't entertain qunstions about past trade rumors or play for the 
Dominican  Hepublic  in  the  
World  Baseball Class ic  this  
month.  

"My main focus," he said, "is getting prepared for tho season to help Boston win.... I'm not ready, so I'm not going to go out there and make a fool of' myself." 
Hamiroz isn't expeeled to play in Thursday night's exhibition opnnnr against Minnesota, but manager Terry Francona didn't expect him to be out of' thn line­up for long. 
Hamirez's agnnt, c;rng Genske, madn it clear his client might not exercise his 10-5 rights (I 0 years in tho majors and five with thn same team) to rnf'usn a tradn. 
"I wouldn't say that." Censkn said when asked if Hamirnz has no intnntion of' leaving the Hml Sox. ''I'd say he's kept an opPn mind." 
Hamirez, who rPportndly want1~d morn priva('.y than hP has in Boston, said W1~dnesday he liked the attention. 
"I get paid to play hasnball and no lmattnrl wlwrn I go al1d play, I've still got to go and perform evnn if' I like it or not," he said. 
That wasn't nxactly mnbradng his currnnt team. 
"''m fine. I'm finn," he said. "I guess a lot of pnopln want me to be back and that's why I'm here." 
Hamirez is due to make $11) million in 2006, the sixth year of his night-year, $160 million con­tract. 
Aftnr the 2003 snason, tho Hod Sox placed him on waivors in an efl'ort to relieve themselves of his expnnsive contract but found no takers and tried to trade him for Alex Hodriguez. Last season, Hamirez took off' the last two games before the trade deadline July 31 while the team explorod possible deals. 
During the ofl'season, the Hod Sox talked with Baltimore and tho New York Mnts, among oth­ers, about trades involving Hamirnz. 
"I think Manny knows that we have made a good faith ~~n·ort to meet his ... rnquest," Jed lloynr, co-gnnnral manager at the timn, said on Jan. 12. "We haven't found a deal that works for us." 
Genske wouldn't say dirnetly that Hamirez had asknd to bn tradnd. 
"I think it's bonn mischaraeter­ized all along," he said. "Over tho last few years it's a situation whern the Heel Sox have wanted to pursue trade alternativns just to kind of' sn11 what's out them\ and Manny has always lHwn willing to participatn in those kind of talks and hn 'd bn willing to knnp an opnn. mind and eoop­eratn if' thn Hnd Sox dncidn that they want to havn l.radn discus­sions." 
Thn team gave Hamirnz per­mission to rnport on March I, six days af'tnr tlw first full-squad workout. Gnnske said Hamirnz wasn't finml for reporting af'tm Feb. 28. Hamirez said lw didn't want to ehange his ol'fsnason training program by reporting for thn first workout. 
r 
Thursday March 2, 2006
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
Tennis 
continued from page 24 
"It's pretty timely that we're going to a doubles tournament because it looks like we could use the work," he said after the match. 
Stephen Bass and Santiago Montoya are playing at No. 43 and scheduled to play Rice's Rodrigo Gabriel and Jason Mok today at 1:45p.m. 

Bass has been steady. for the Irish this season, ranked at No. 17 in the national singles standings. Montoya is a strong player who has not seen much time on the courts this season, but Bayliss is confident in his ability to compete at this tournament's high level. 
Eric Langenkamp and Andrew Roth, set at No. 52, will be facing UCSD's Kazari Negishi and Ramesh 
S. Thonadpu at 2:15p.m. today. 
Roth has been part of several doubles pairings this season, notably with Brett Helgeson in Notre Dame's lone relative bright spot in doubles against Ohio State. The freshmen battled together in an 8-6 loss to Devin Mullings and Chris Klingemann at third doubles in what Bayliss called "by far our strongest match." 
Langenkamp has also been a strong doubles player for the Irish, usually playing in first and second doubles. 

Ryan Keckley and Barry King, one of the strongest Irish duos and playing at No. 76, had a first-round bye and will play Friday at 9:45 
a.m. The two juniors have been a highlight for the Irish this season, defeating the then-No. 1 nationally ranked doubles team Ross Wilson and Scott Green in a 4-3 loss at North Carolina in February. The two could not repeat the perform­anee, however, falling to the No. 1 pair in a lopsided loss at the Eck Tennis Pavilion Feb. 26. Although the performance was disappoint­ing, the team took the hit in stride -Ross and Wilson have won three ITA Grand Slam tournament event'i while playing together. 
A first-round bye also went to Helgeson and Sheeva Parbhu, who play Friday at 10:15. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 



r-------------..
Proprietors I
1 

Warren & Linda I 
I I I I I
?irs/ Or~'rJina!:Aiza in 'Jomnl 
I I
Since 1951 
I I
$2 off Any Size Pizza I Eat in Only I I Expires March 31, 2006 I 
I I
537 North St louis • South Bend, IN I.. 574-233-24(,4 ..
_____________ I 


Specializing in Group Orders. 
Free. 2-liter Coke oroduct with purchase Of any 18" Pizza or.99c 2-uter Coke product with our new deliV€ry 
' 

12" Value Piua and ltr Value Cheese Pizza for only $4.99 
(add $1.00 for each additional topping) 
Call *Free deUvery 6pm to lam 631.2928 
~~t~~"~~~a~&'!!~. !~9~5 $ 
99
• Ham & Cheese • Chicken Club 
FREE DELIVERY ON CAMPUS! 
limi"ted time offer. Prices, tax, 


delivery areas & r.:h~rges may vary by
52750 IN 933 
lc)calion. Excludes othef offers. Good at part~erpating locations only.

(N. of Cleveland Rd.­Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's) 
574-243-1122 
Visit us on the Web at www.marcos.com ©2006 Marco's Franchrsing, LLC 4831(1)-206 



---~ 
Thursday, March 2, 2006 page 23
The Observer+ TODAY 

EUGENJA LAST 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 26 Finger wagger's 48 Toasting/Girl 
CELEBRITIES HORN ON THIS DAY: J~:nsen Ackles, 28; Nik Kershaw, 48: cry with the dried­Ron Howard. 52: Harry Bclafonte, 79
1 Weapon in fruit trick?
U.S./Russ. 27 Late S.N.L. 

Happy Birthday: Don't leave anything important in someone else's care. Take the negotiations actor 53 Instant 
initiative and do things yourself. You can make money and even develop ~mncthing 5 Something 
54 Go-round unusual thai will he regarded as brilliant hy your peers. Let go of the things in the31 At times/Actress 
past thai arc eating away at you and holding you hal:k. Your numhers arc 5, I0. 18.
picked up in a Sykes's halt to 55 Go bad 26,27,43locker room putting on 58 "The Dark at 

weight?

10 "Joy of the Top of the ARIES (March 21-April 19): Do whatever is necessary to bring in more cash. Cooking" author 33 Copy Stairs" Your commitment to finishing something or beginning something new thai you li:cl Rombauer playwright lias potential will hring the results you want. Talks will he productive. 3 stars 
36 Flair TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Taking charge will be the key to getting what you

14 Nickelodeon's 59 Strain wan I. An opportunity will open through u partnership you arc considering. Prt·parc37 You have tothe 60 Ali Baba, for one 
to start whatever process is required. Say what you think and you will gain
Explorer" study for them 

approval.*** 15 Mischievous one 38 Way down GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): You won't gel the help you need so don't waste time 61 Penury 
62 Script direction asking. Don't share your ideas with others. Keep your thoughts to yourscl f and you16 Us and them, 39 Principe's father 
63 TV princess will avoid opposition. Getting along with others may he diflkull for you today. n maybe CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): Accept any invitation that will take you on a lrir40 Increase either mentally or physically. What you learn or experience today will he stimulating17 Weaved business/Run 
DOWN 
and insriring and will affect the way you do things in the future. *"*** into little dog's 18 Mountain resort l~EO (July 23-Aug. 22): You have to become a lillie more serious ahoul your
1 Fingers 19 "_,old chap" liquor? 
linancial situation. Money can he made through property or an unusual investment.
2 Lift 

42 Some hockey Good advice will come your way if you listen to someone with more experience."**
20 Not jump in too 
scenes 3 Flick VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't hack down because someone is hcing a hully.eagerly/Where 
Don't retaliate. Move forward doing your own thing regardless of what others think.
4 Zone alternative43 Olds model
the best sales Honesty, patience and the ability to listen will help you sort through the issues.*** promoter shops? 5 Like a fifth LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Focus on health and happiness and ytiu will fed good
44 "That was 

wheel about yourself and your future. Implement aprogram thai includes exercise, diet23 Not out devilish of me" and relaxation. You need to get hack on track physically. ***6 Add moisture
25 You hardly have 47 Certain 29 Renaissance 38 Check addition? 47 Change SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Bring some of your old creative ideas hack into to study for it discrimination philosopher play. You may have hcen a lillie ahead of yourself in the past hut now you should
7 Brief display? 
40 Quick, in trade 
49 Breather

8 Stead Petrus he ahle to develop and prosper. You will feel great satisfaction. ***** 
names 50 Show pleasure SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take things one step at a time and don't makeANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 It starts on a 30 Beth for Bess, 41 Tale promises to someone for whom you feel sorry. By making inexpensive, minor

Wednesday e.g. 51 Aid's partner 
alterations you can satisfy many of the problems you face at horne. Avoid arguments.** 10 Polite speech 32 It might follow a and Robin 52 Be generous CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): Time is on your side so usc it to your advantage. -:::+-:-+-:+:::+:::-1 i ntrod ucti on cut Get to know someone better hefore you talk ahout your own life and desires. You 
42 Like Batman 
44 Golfer Hale 56 Tore 

will attract someone who is interested in you in more ways than one. **** 
11 Parks and 33 Unhurriedly 
45 Poland Spring's AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. Ill): Consider what's happened in the past before you
57 Org. with aothers 

34 Equals home jump into something that could easily he arepeat pcrfonnancc. Find a new way to
Sixth Man 

12 Farinaceous raise your income and you will feel hettcr ahoul your future. Consider aslight
35 salt 46 Pig out Award-7+:-l.iiiol.ii.I-:::F.+-:::-1 

modification to an old idea and it will probably take off. **** 
-:-:-+=+=+=-f''!"P'!'t-:~-+-:ci 13 Sanctuaries 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Change has been a major factor in your life li1r some l-7i-:-:+-:-t.-...r.-+=:+:-+.::-_...:-+.::+::::+.=~ 21 "You got that!" For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a time but today it can bring about prosperous results. Satisfying your own needs ~-:+:':+::+.:::+.~ 22 Witnessed credit card, 1-800-814-5554. will spark your imagination and get you moving down the right path. *** 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 23 Ed of "Roots" Birthday Baby: You are incredibly intuitive and in tunc with the people aroundcrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.

24 Oarlock you. You are detennined, independent and always looking for a way to get ahead.
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 letting nothing stop you.

27 Telecommuni­
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).cator's request 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young Eugenia's Web sites: astmadvice.comfor ftm, eugenialast.mmformnfidential conmltations 28 Wide open solvers: nvtimes.com/learninq/xwords. 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 

JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 

CROISSANTWORLD 


1-\ES Go"\ 1>-N OFFI<.£ HESBUI't!:ll-\ Wll~ 
STUI'\D F~'"'fl-\£-R 
LINEI::> WrTH HIS LI!.RA~'\· I'M. 
PIC.IURE..S Of A COOL E-)1.­

1-111"\SE-\..r W11'H L\.~. PI'!..E.SI DENI lbO. 
PI<.!S.SIcE. NT S A.NJ) C.ELES~\TIES P...NI::> \-\CNoRAR't l)EC:IR.E.ES 
F~o,._.. Tor-JS OF 
PL.AC.ES. 

"Do "/OU WANt Mt. lo IF 'fOV.'RE.. SO .S\-1 IN E. UP "jOU Ia 5 "<:!' GR.ANK'\ P...Eo:--'1 PLM-~ IN 11-\E F"""''""'''-1'"\1 \-\ES&I....I.RC::lHS 
COUNT"/ LIE!:.~P..R'j "'--H'i AND DONT "/0'-' -:l"U:ST 12>\J.I\...."\) 'fOUft. OWN? 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
YOWND 
j

[J [ I I 
(1!)2006 Tribune Med1a Services, Inc. All flighls ReSOlVed. 
COKAL 

± 

WHAT THE: YOUNG JUI7GE: 17117 WHE:N HE: FINI?HE:I7
tEMPAND I 
RE:?E:ARC.HING THE: C.A?E:.

IJ I []
twww jumble.com VELIEW 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.
J I I 

Ans: rI I I J ( I I I JTHE 'l I I ] " 
(Answers tomorrow) y t d , I Jumbles: OUTDO SAUTE LIMBER FESTAL es er ay s Answer: What the hangman killed between assignments -LOTS OF TIME 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
l 
l

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year l .I 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester ·~ 
Name _____________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City ______________ State ____ Zip______ ­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Thursday, March 2, 2006 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish ruin Friars' Senior Night in road win 
Notre Dame defeats Providence in do-or­die Big East matchup 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Chris Quinn did not score Wednesday night until 1:52 remainnd in the first half. But unlike in its 80-72 loss to Marquette Friday, Notre Dame was able to find production elsewhere. 
Behind 21 points from guard Russell Carter and 18 from for­ward Torin Francis, Notre Dame knocked off Providence 82-75 Wednesday night at the Dunkin Donuts Center, despite its star player's slow start. 
Quinn finished with 19 points after scoring only three the whole first half. And the Irish (14-12, 5-10 Big East) now need only one more win on Saturday (DePaul, Joyce Center, 4 p.m.) to earn a berth in the conference tournament beginning March 8 in New York City. 
Providence (12-14, 5-10) needed the win just as badly but could not get it done, even though it had the home court and Senior Night on its side. 
"They wanted this win almost as much as we did," Francis said in a phone interview with The Observer following the game. "But I don't think they wanted it more." 
Notre Dame shot 49 percent from the field and out-rebound­ed Providence 36-26. Francis grabbed a game-high 12 
see WIN/page 19 


MEN'S TENNIS 
Pairs travel to doubles tourney 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Edi ror 
N'ter an inconsistPnt p(~rformance in doubles 
against Ohio State Feb. 24, the Irish head to California for the Pacific Coast Doubles · Tournament, open to all levels of tennis play­
ers. 
The tournament is held annually at the La 
Jolla Beach and Tennis Club, located in La 
Jolla. Calil(>rnia. 
In their most recent outing. the Irish were 
swept in doubles by Ohio State. The Buckeyes 
dominated first and second doubles, winning 
both sets 8-2 and ta.king the third set 8-6. 
Nthough Notre Dame would rally to win the 
match 5-2 in an upset of their Midwest rival, 
the doubles performance concerned coach 
Bobby Bayliss. 
see TENNIS/page 22 


WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish hope to continue hot streak against Ohio 
By CHRIS WILLIAMS Sports Writer 

Riding a wave of momentum after emotional victories over California and Stanford, the No. 17 Irish (2-0) host Ohio (1­
2) today at 4:30 p.m. 

A revamped offense and a strong recruiting class created buzz in the offseason and two convincing wins over top pro­grams ·have the Irish feeling confident. 
"We really wanted to win, and we wanted to forget last season," senior attack Crysti Foote said. "The Cal game was a great win because the whole team got to contribute and it was a great way to open the season. The Stanford game was intense, but I think it was good for us to see that we can come back in any game and any circumstance, and it came down to heart." 
Against Stanford, the Irish twice overcame 5-point deficits, eventually winning 12-11 in triple overtime. Though Notre Dame has per­formed well in its early season games, it is not overlooking 
see FOOTE/page 18 
MEN's lACROSSE 
Sophomore netminder has solid start to year 
By TIM DOUGHERTY 
Spans Writer 
As the Irish prepare to face No. 8 Cornell Saturday, they remember last year's dramatic 11-10 loss to the Big Hed. But no one reealls the drama quite like sophomore goaltender Joey Kemp. 
A freshman at the time, Kemp entered the season's second game armed with only five minutes of collegiate expe­
... 
rience at the end a 14-6 win over Penn State in the season opener. Down by three goals with 3:26 left in the third quarter Irish coach Kevin Corrigan needed a change, and he called upon a fresh Kemp to replace senior starter Stewart Crosland. The switch nearly worked, as the Irish had a good look at the net in the final seconds but could not capitalize. 
As a wide-eyed freshman, Kemp credited this year's co-captain, defenseman D.J. Driscoll, for welcoming him to the team. 
"D.J. called a quick huddle to bring me in," he said, "It made me more comfortable. The leadership on the team defense made it a lot easier for me to step in." 
A lot has changed since then. 
No longer a newcomer, Kemp emerged from the game as a full-time starter and an 
see KEMP/page 18 


U) SOCCER MLB NCAA SPORTS NFL NCAA BASKETBAll NCAA BASKETBAll 

w 
c.,:) USA1 Manny Ramirez reports NCAA levies sanctions Owners and players Florida State 79, Texas A&M 46 z Poland 0 to Red Sox training against 65 teams for fail-will meet for revenue No.1 Duke 74 No. 6 Texas 43:3 Clint Dempsey scores camp. ing to meet academic sharing discussion Crowd storms court 1.7 Acie Law scores 3-point lone goal in game standards. today. seconds early as Blue buzzer beater to give 
-· ~ 
during blizzard. Devils' perfect ACC Aggies the· victory. 
~ 

record falls. 
page 21 page 21 page 17 page 16 page 14 page 14
~ 






