.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Abroad students travel to Belfast 
Dublin Program trip focuses on political, religious divides within Northern Ireland 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writer 
BELFAST -There's a lot of baggage that comes with being Irish and Catholic in this city. Or Irish and Protestant, for that matter. 
Notre Dame students may not often have reason to think about these challenges, given the pep­band air which surrounds any campus expression of their uni­versity's traditional heritage. But last weekend, the students of Notre Dame's Dublin Program traveled to Northern Ireland's capital to see firsthand about the political and religious divides that have troubled this island's northern end for generations. 
Between meeting with a rep­resentative of the Sinn Fein political party and touring Catholic and Protestant neigh­borhoods, students were able to learn experientially about life north of the border. 
The group drove north on Oct. 13, over ground where program director Kevin Whelan said snipers used to lie in wait. Upon arrival, they toured Stormont, the home of the Northern Ireland Assembly -a legislative body which has not met since October 2002 because of tension 
see BELFAST/page 6 

Death penalty group begins on campus 
Notre Dame Against State Killing to hold lectures, work toward moratorium 
Campus Ministry. It forms a 
coalition with various other stu­
dent groups on campus ­
including the Notre Dame Law 
School's ND Coalition to Abolish 
the Death Penalty, Notre Dame 
Right to Life and Amnesty 
International -who will help 
them sponsor and publicize 
events. 
"Last spring, in talking to friends, we realized that there isn't really an informed opinion about [the death penalty] on campus," Laidman said. ·"Everyone had very strong opin­ions, but they didn't really have 
the facts on it." 
The group differs from Notre 
Dame Right to Life, McAuliffe 
said, because it focuses solely on 
the death penalty issue. NDASK 
see NDASK/page 4 


By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Given the debate surrounding the death penalty within the Catholic Church, Notre Dame, as a Catholic University, should address it. 
That's the philosophy of Notre Dame Against State Killing (NDASK), a new student organi­zation. 
The group will launch its first event this fall with a series of lectures to educate students about the death penalty. 
NDASK co-organizers junior Andrea Laidman and senior Will McAuliffe -who is also an Observer columnist -described the organization as a campaign under the direction of the Center for Social Concerns and 

Saint Mary's to install new e-mail system 
Zimbra Server boasts updated features for spring semester 
By LIZ HARTER 
News Writer 
lnbox warnings of over­flowing e-mail accounts may be a thing of the past at Saint Mary's next semester as the College prepares to install a new messaging sys­tem during winter break, Chief Information Officer Keith Fowlkes said. 
The current e-mail system -iPlanet Messaging, known on campus as Aegis and developed by Sun Microsystems -has been "showing its age" in the past few months, Fowlkes said. 
The new Zimbra Collaboration Server boasts "all new software, hardware and [has a] greater quota capacity for our users," Fowlkes said. It will include e-mail, a calendar system and shared wikis. 
The Saint Mary's Web site defines wikis as the ability to use a Web site to collabo­
see E-MAIL/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
ND given Katrina recognition 
University one of nine to receive award 
By RYAN SYDLIK 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's service in Katrina-ravaged areas has done even more than improve the lives of the 
storm's victims - it's  won  
the  University  national  
recognition.  

Notre Dame was one of nine U.S. universities to receive the Katrina Compassion Award for Excellence in Hurricane Relief Service award from the Corporation for National and Community Service, the nation's largest independent grant-maker for the support of service and volunteerism. 
In addition to the award for Katrina relief efforts, the corporation also gave Notre Dame an award for its over­all mission of service. 
Bill Purcell, assistant pro­fessional specialist at the Center for Social Concerns, said the corporation was likely impressed by the quick and comprehensive nature of Notre Dame's relief efforts. 
The University reacted to the tragedy through a vari­ety of prayer services, fundraising efforts and forums to discuss national issues that resulted in the aftermath. 
"It was everything from the [Hesburghl Library col­lecting books [to] engineer­ing [students that] went [down to the region] in a 
see KATRINA/page 4 


Professor stresses career vocation 
Talk examines views ofwomen, working; encourages balance 
By ABBY RICHARDSON 
News Writer 
The challenge of balanc­ing both a career and fami­ly -a thought that worries many college students ­served as the focus of Boston University professor Claire Wolfteich's Tuesday night talk at Saint Mary's. 
As a professor and moth­er of three, Wolfteich came to the College's Stapleton Lounge as part of the Center for Spirituality's 
2006 Endowed Fall Lecture series to discuss the chang­ing views of women in the workplace. 
"Work is a vocation," Wolfteich said. "Women are primarily seen as mothers." 
This stereotype, she said, has historically been a threat to women working outside the house. Over time, however, more women have dissolved that image and pursued careers, she said. 
Wolfteich said this change has also stemmed from the religious world, and she reminded the audience of papal encyclicals that encouraged women to ven­ture into the workplace. 
In a 1995 encyclical, the late Pope John Paul II specifically thanks "women who work," she said, which allows women to fulfill their desire to work. 
"Work does influence women's life in many ways," Wolfteich said. 
Careers give women a chance to redefine them­selves and their lives, she said, and allows them to reshape their devotional life. 
Wolfteich encouraged the women in the room to rec­ognize their job as a voca­tion -something that not many do, she said, espe­cially if work does not involve service or suffer-
see LECTURE/page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Let yourself fall behind 
this vveekend 
Believe it or not, it's still fall. And it will be until Dec. 22. 
That's nearly two more months of the leaves changing, football, sweatshirts and mitten-less hands. Right? 
Not exactly. Winter has come 
Katie Kohler

early this year. 
We haven't even changed our clocks back 
News Writer 

for daylight sav­ing time yet. 
We have woken up more than once to snow on the ground in October. 
The heat is on in the dorms. Halloween? Please-Christmas is in the air. 
For the first time in years, I don't think I'll be opposed to hearing Christmas music by Thanksgiving. 
Even though it may feel like win­ter, rest assured that fall isn't fin­ished. 
There are still things to look for­ward to, despite the weather mak­ing it seem otherwise. 
One of those things is happening at the end of the week. You guessed it. Daylight saving time is around the corner. 
That being said, this is now a public service announcement to set your clocks back one hour this Sunday. 
Being from the East Coast, I know most Indiana residents are opposed to daylight saving time for various reasons (crops, farms, cows?), but I'm sure no college student would complain about an extra hour of sleep ... especially after a Saturday night. 
My favorite part about changing the clocks back is that Sunday is a 25-hour day. 
Have you ever heard the expres­sion, "There aren't enough hours in the day"? 
Have no fear. Now there are. 25 hours in one day. 
There are so many things you could do with that extra hour, so don't waste it. Or maybe that's exactly what you want to do. Take that extra hour and put it into pro­ductive sleep time. 
Whatever daylight saving time brings for you, just enjoy this little gift of extra time to relieve the stress of the day, relax or be pro­ductive. 
Before you know it we will be setting the clocks forward and, I don't know about you, but I won't be celebrating the 23-hour day. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

Due ro a reporting error, the article "Conference Considers Happiness" in the Ocr. 25 edition of The Observer incorreccly identified the source of funding for the "New Directions in the Study of Happiness: United and International Perspectives" conference. The conference was sponsored principally by the Department of Economics and Policy Studies and by the Program in American Democracy (with a grant from the Annenberg Foundation), with addi­tional support from Institute ofScholarship in the Liberal Arcs (ISLA) and the Department of Sociology. The Observer regrets this error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, October 26, 2006 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE WILL FERRELL MOVIE? 

Bob Reish Chris Kane Devin Harrington Evan Sharpley Jessica Miller Matt Lind 
sophomore junior sophomore sophomore senior sophomore Sarin Keenan Stanford Dillon offcampus Keenan 
'"Old School.' '"Old School.' '"SNL,' because '"Zoolander,' '"Elf,' because I '"Bewitched,' Obviously Because Bam it's not too because he is so like eating from because that because he's Bam is a dork -crazy like some hot right now." the four food show is long 


living every man's dream. ,  he has a physique to diefor ­and  ofhis movies and it's actually  
there's a guy  funny."  
namedFred and  
he's got a pair of  
slacks."  

Principal returns to school after "wedgie" Incident 
LIVINGSTON, Mont. ­The principal of Park High School returned to school Tuesday after a six-day suspension for giving a student a "wedgie. "'The Livingston School District Board held a special meeting Monday and approved Superintendent Hannibal Anderson's rec­ommendation that Principal Eric Messerli be allowed to return to work. 
"It has been clearly rec­ognized and stated that the behavior is inappro­priate, unprofessional and unacceptable," Anderson said. 
Messerli's behavior "warrants substantial dis­ciplinary action" but was not sufficient grounds for a recommendation for ter­mination, he said. 
Messerli was suspended for two days without pay and four days with pay for grabbing a Park High senior's soccer jersey and pulling it over his head and giving the student a "wedgie" by pulling up on the waist band of his underwear. 
Woman's driving test becomes a nightmare 
PORTAGE, lnd A young woman's goal of getting her driver's license crashed this week -right into the license branch. The 20-year-old woman was pulling into a parking spot outside the license branch when she hit the accelerator instead of the brake, Assistant Fire Chief Mike Bucy said. 



The car jumped a small curb and went into the building about 1:30 p.m. Tuesday, tearing out a large glass window and damaging a door and low brick wall. 

Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


groups. overdue to be made into a movie." 
IN BRIEF 
David Shipler, Pulitzer Prize-winning author will speak about "The Working Poor. Invisible in America" tonight at 7 p.m. in Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza College of Business. 
David Whalen, the associate provost of Hillsdale College will speak give a lecture enti­tled "Scarlet Sins and Books that are Read" tonight at 
7:30 p.m. in room 129 of DeBartolo Hall. 
The Halloween Dance spon­sored by the classes of 2009 and 2009 will take place tonight at 9:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Free Chic-Fil-A will be served, and the event is free to all NO, SMC and HCC students. 
Legends: The Best of Acousticafe will take place tonight at 10 p.m. at Legends. 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra will perform Friday at 8 p.m. in Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $6, $5 faculty/staff, $4 seniors and $3 all students. 
The bands Angel Melendez and 911 Mambo will perform at 10 p.m. at Legends on Friday. The concert is free for NO, SMC and HCC students. 
Relay for Life will began at 6 p.m. Friday and conclude at 10 a.m. Saturday at the Stepan Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 47 HIGH 55 LOW 32 LOW 35 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
::c 
!;: 
LLI 
== 
...J 
c:( (,) 

0 
HIGH 48 HIGH 37 HIGH 48 HIGH 45
...I LOW 31 LOW 31 LOW 35 LOW 32 
Atlanta 60 I 40 Boston 53 I 34 Chicago 48 I 43 Denver 40 I 28 Houston 84 I 53 Los Angeles 85 I 54 Minneapolis 49 I 34 New York 54 I 39 Philadelphia 55 I 39 Phoenix 79 I 56 Seattle 59 I 43 St. Louis 52 I 43 Tampa 83 I 60 Washington 56 I 40 
Thursday, October, 26, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 

Group passes stricter ballot access standards 
18-4 vote raises requirement to 200 signatures 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 
Students wishing to run for class officer positions will now face stricter ballot access standards, thanks to a constitutional amendment passed by the Student Senate Wednesday. 
Previously, class officer candidates -who run for office in teams of four (presi­dent, vice president, secre­tary and treasurer) -had to obtain 100 signatures from members of their class in order to get their names on the ballot. 
But in an 18-4 vote, sena­
tors  voted  to  raise  that  
requirement to  200 signa­ 
tures.  

St. Edward's senator Brian Lan crafted the amendment, which came out of the Senate Oversight committee. The stricter requirement ls not meant to deter students from running for office, Lan said. Instead, it merely forces can­didates to gather support from a larger percentage of the class. 
"It was so easy to get .on 
the ballot [by getting 100 signatures] .... Now, this shouldn't change who is on the ballot, but it will get a better representation." 
Gathering 200 votes is about 10 perct;Jnt of a given class at Notre Dame -a standard that, Lan believes, is more comparable to the 700 signatures that student body presidential and vice presidential candidates must gather in order to run for those offices. 
In other Senate news: 
+ The third and final stu­dent-alumni reception will take place Nov. 3 -but the location has not yet been determined, said University Affairs committee chair Aly Baumgartner. Film, televi­sion and the ate r majors should try to attend the event, Baumgartner said, since prominent alums work­ing in the entertainment industry will probably go to the reception when they are on campus that weekend. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
Polish archbishop to visit ND 
.Zycinski to give lecture, participate in a public forum on evolution 
Special to The Observer 
Archbishop Jozef Zycinski of Lublin, Poland will visit the University of Notre Dame from Oct. 31 to Nov. 3 [Tuesday to Friday] and on Nov. 1 will present the 
.----=-------, University's 2 0 0 6 Nanovic Institute Distinguished European Lecture and participate in a public forum on Zycinski evolution and Catholicism. Both events are free and open to the public. 
The Nanovic lecture will take place at 8 p.m. in the auditori­um of the University's Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Titled "Neighbors? Jews and Catholics in Post-Shoah Poland," the presentation is sponsored by the Nanovic Institute. 
The public forum, sponsored by Notre Dame's Reilly Center for Science, Technology and Values; Nanovic Institute for European Studies; Jacques Maritain Center; Departments of Biology, Theology, Philosophy and the Program of Liberal Studies, is titled "Evolution and Catholic Faith: Is There a Conflict?" The event will be held from 3 to 4:30 
p.m. in Room 101 of Notre Dame's Jordan Hall of Science and will feature remarks from a panel of Notre Dame faculty members, a response from the archbishop, and an audience question-and-answer session. Structured for a general inter­est audience, this forum will examine this issue in light of some discussions of evolution by the Church that included a meeting at the Vatican in July. 
Appointed Archbishop of Lublin in 1997, Archbishop Zycinski also serves as grand chancellor of the John Paul II Catholic University of Lublin, where his research focuses on the history and philosophy of science and the relationship between science and evolution. He is the author of the forth­coming book "God and Evolution: Fundamental Questions of Christian Evolutionl.sm." He has worked to promote Jewish-Catholic relations in the diocese of Lublin. 
Ordained to the priesthood in 1972 following studies at the Czestochowa Major Seminary in Krakow, Archbishop Zycinski holds degrees in phi­losophy, theology and the phi­losophy of science. He has held the Chair of Logic and Methodology at Krakow's Papal Academy of Theology since 1980 and served as the vice-dean and dean of the academy's faculty of philoso­phy from 1982 to 1985 and 1988 to 1990, respectively. 
Archbishop Zycinski holds numerous public positions, including chair of the Bishops' Council for the Laity and the Program Committee of KAI [Catholic Information Agency]. He also serves on the Polish Bishops' Commissions for the Doctrine of the Faith and for Pastoral Care and holds mem­berships in the Russian Academy of Natural Sciences, the Committee for Philosophical Studies of the Polish Academy of Sciences (PAN). and PAN's Committee on Evolutionary and Theoretical Biology. 
Archbishop Zycinski is the author of 40 books and more than 350 published journal articles. He founded the jour­nal series "Philosophy in Science," published by PAN, the Vatican Observatory and the University of Arizona. 

ATTENTION, all LAW, MBA, and GRADUATE students: 
Student Affairs and the Graduate School want your feedback. In the next couple of days, you will receive an e-mail invitation to complete an on-line survey about your experiences as graduate and 
. professional students at the University. Please take the time to participate in this important survey. Your responses will help to shape the future ofgraduate and professional student life at Notre Dame. 
+  ALL students who complete the survey will receive a complimentary meal pass to either dining hall.  
+  All participants will also be registered in a lottery to win one ofmany available prizes, including:  
iPocis  $50 gift: catcls to Papa Vino's  
Computets  $50 gift: catch to the N D Bookstote  
$100 gift catc\s to the DPAC  Me4l passes fot a week (14 me4ls) to eithet c\ining haII  

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 26, 2006 
NDASK 
continued from page 1 
helps Right to Life and Amnesty International to turn their focus to their other issues because it assumes responsibility for edu­cating students about the death penalty, McAuliffe said. 
"With us focusing solely on this issue, they don't have to divert any of their own resources within their group." 
NDASK's mission goes beyond educating students on Notre Dame's campus. Its long-term goal is to work toward estab­lishing a moratorium on the death penalty in the state of Indiana. 
"It's not a one-year goal," Laidman said. "This is going to be a lasting campaign on the campus. It takes so much mobi­lization to campaign for [a moratorium on the death penal­ty] at the state level." 
The group has a list of around 100 members, Laidman said, but a core team of about five has organized the group. 
The organization has planned poster campaigns, information sessions, a trip to Indiana's death row in Michigan City and an upcoming lecture series this fall. 
The lecture series will intro­duce a human element to com­plement statistics and figures, Laidman said. The speakers for the lecture series each bring a unique viewpoint on the death penalty, she said. 
"We want people to hear these different stories, then draw the statistics and facts together with them," Laidman said. 
Thomas Anthony Durkin, a 1968 Notre Dame graduate and a lawyer in Chicago, will speak Nov. 1 in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum about his role in estab­lishing a moratorium on the death penalty in Illinois. 
Geographically, Indiana is in a good position because it is next to Illinois and moratorium advocates can draw on its resources in their fight against the death penalty, McAuliffe said. 
McAuliffe said Deacon George Brooks, director of advocacy and jail chaplain for Kolbe House, the Archdiocese of Chicago's prison and jail min­istry, will speak Nov. 8 in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium about seeing murderers as chil­dren of God. 
Former Indiana Gov. Joseph Kernan will speak Nov. 15 in the Coleman-Morse Student Lounge about his feelings on the death penalty. 
Kernan has said he supports the death penalty in principle, but believes it should only be used in the most serious cases. 
Indiana State Senator John Broden, a 1987 graduate of Notre Dame, will speak Nov. 29 at the same location. He cur­rently serves as a member of the Indiana Assessment Team of the American Bar Association's Death Penalty Moratorium Implementation Project. 
A forum will be held in the spring semester to continue the conversation about the death penalty. 
This is an issue that "can real­ly attract students from a diverse background of inter­ests," said Laidman, explaining that the death penalty debate involves legal, political and moral aspects. 
"It seems that in learning about it students become more and more interested," she said. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
Katrina 
continued from page 1 
Winnebago," he said. 
The fundraising process began during the Sept. 17, 2005 Notre Dame-Michigan State 'home football game, and the University was able to donate "close to a million dollars in cash [to I the Catholic Charities U.S.A.... Holy Cross sites and [Alliance for Catholic Education] sites," Purcell said. 
Notre Dame students 

E-IDail 
continued from page 1 
rate on a document. 
Freshman Kate McKenna said she doesn't know what these wikis would be used for, but hopes it's not class projects. Doing that, she said, would eliminate a level of social interaction between students, which is how she said she met many of her friends. 
"Everything is getting so high tech nowadays," she said. "I think if people real­ly started to do group work [through the wikis on this new system] it would be a benefit, but [itl also would take away from the impor­tant parts of working in a 
Lecture 
continued from page 1 
ing. 
"There heeds to be more guidance for women, Wolfteich said, pointing at the insufficient number of examples of women who balance work and home. 
Although Wolfteich said there is also a lack of spiri­tual models to serve as 
T: 631-5882 began to contribute to the rebuilding process during fall break of 2005, and 118 students recently returned from this year's fall break relief effort, Purcell said. 
He said this highlights Notre Dame's ongoing assis­tance efforts -which don't involve just students. 
"It's faculty, staff, students and alumni," Purcell said, "which is nice since we have [the entire] Holy Cross fami­ly ... helping [the Gulf Coast family] in need." 
Purcell said Notre Dame's connections as a Catholic university were extremely 
helpful to relief efforts. The CSC's contact with New Orleans Archbishop Alfred Hughes allowed University President Father John Jenkins to meet with him to coordinate efforts. 
A Holy Cross school was also able to house volun­teers from the engineering department and ACE while they aided local schools. 
Purcell said he did not expect to receive the award when he submitted the grant application that became the basis to choose the award's recipients. 
"I was actually surprised 

group." the downtime. 
While Aegis has been a "It will be somewhat good Webmail system, it annoying [if the e-mail sys-does not have tem is] down the expand­over break ability the "We are looking at because this College need­keeping both systems is the only e­ed, Fowlkes mail that I
up until everyone has 
said. u s e , 
"We are gone throught the Stepaniak looking at conversion process.,, said. keeping both T h e systems up changeover
Keith Fowlkes
until everyone of personal e­has gone Saint Mary's mail accounts through the chief Information officer will be done conversion through a process, so, simple link at this point, we are hoping on the homepage, Fowlkes for little downtime," he said. said. "[Students] will have the 
Sophomore Lauren same e-mail address [and] Stepaniak said she's looking no mail or folders will be forward to the new e-mail lost," he said. "They will system, but is worried about just be transferred to the 
guidance for women, she believes it is only a matter of time before that changes. 
W h i I e Wolfteich anticipates an increase of female role models, accounting professor 
working she believes society has aLready made positive strides 
"The thing students to impress a balance of
have today that we 
work and

didn ,t have is role 
home life ontomodels.,, young women. "The thing students have
MaryAnn Merryman 
today that we

Saint Mary's professor 
didn't have is 
role models," 
Merryman 

MaryAnn Merryman said said. "I value that. I take 
[Notre Dame received an award] because we were not one of the schools down in the area," he said. 
Other schools to receive the award included the University of Connecticut, Georgetown University, Baylor College of Dentistry, Louisiana Tech University, Central Michigan University, the State University of New. York at Geneseo, Southern University and A&M College and Xavier University of Louisiana. 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 
new server during the move process." 
Despite the College's effort to increase e-mail ease, not all students believe that the new system is necessary. 
"I think that the current e-mail system is sufficient," senior Breeana Gregory said. "One of [its] problems is that there is not enough memory, [but] if the memo­ry was increased it would be good." 
McKenna said while the system .has worked well during her first semester of college -"it's easy to use" -she is aware of students not deleting e-mails and creating an overflow prob­lem. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
that part of my vocation seriously." 
Sophomore Andrea Krebs said she believes the edu­cational experience should further address students' potential role as mothers. 
[Being a mother] hasn't even been addressed," Krebs said. "The focus is on the job and getting a good job." 
Contact Abby Richardson at arichaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

STUDIES PROGRAM 

IN 

INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA 
2007-2008 Academic Year 
Information Meeting With Professor Gernot Guertler, Director ofthe CES Program 
Thursday, October 26, 2006 210 DeBartolo 5:30pm-7:00pm 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/~ois 
Ouestions?-Weber.l5(a),nd.edu Aonlication Deadline: November 15, 2006 










ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 26, 2006 COMP[LED FROM THE OBSERVER'S Wl RE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Executions mark new government 
BUJUMBURA, Burundi -Burundi's spy agency has executed 38 people and arbitrar­ily detained 200 others since the Central African nation's new government came to power, a rights group said Wednesday. 
New York-based Human Rights Watch accused President Pierre Nkurunziza year­old government of failing to prosecute those accused of extra-judicial killings. A security official acknowledged some officers had committed human rights abuses, but said the cases were isolated and that those responsible were punished. 
"Since the new government took office, the intelligence service has been free to use any means necessary, including killing and tor­ture, to reach its goals," the group's Alison des Forges said in a report. "The govern­ment must address this pattern of continu­ing violations." 
Tropical Storm Paul weakening 
SAN JOSE DEL CABO, Mexico -Tropical Storm Paul quickly lost strength Wednesday as it swirled toward Mexico's mainland at the tip of the Baja California peninsula. 
About 100 residents who were evacuated to government shelters in Cabo San Lucas were heading back to their homes, relieved the sun had re-emerged and they had been spared by Paul, which earlier in the week had been the season's third hurricane to threaten the region. 
The storm was forecast to continue weak­ening, but it was moving quickly toward mainland Mexico. It was expected to make landfall later Wednesday and could dump as much as 10 inches of rain and spark dangerous flooding, according to the hurri­cane center in Miami. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Arizona official will resign 
PHOENIX-State Treasurer David Petersen will resign and plead guilty to a misdemeanor charge of failing to report $4,200 in commis­sions for selling character-education materials to schools, Attorney General Terry Goddard said Wednesday. 
Petersen was to appear Wednesday in Maricopa County Superior Court for arraign­ment on the misdemeanor count that conclud­ed a months-long investigation that originally centered on allegations of theft, fraud and con­flict of interest. 
A memo from Goddard said the investigation found no evidence that Petersen stole or mis­used public money, though "numerous issues pertaining to defendant's performance of his duties and management of his office were found to be outside the scope of a criminal investigation." 


New York taxi fare increased by $1 
NEW YORK-The cost of standing still, like everything else in New York City, is going up. 
The price of an average cab ride increased by $1 when the city Taxi and Limousine Commission voted unanimously Wednesday to double the amount charged on the meter when a taxi sits idly in traffic. 
The unanimous vote puts New York's wait time in the same range as other major U.S. cities, where the cost of sitting runs about $20 to $30 an hour, according to the commis­sion. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Woman sues over strip search video 
HAMMOND, Ind. -A woman videotaped during a police strip-search has sued the city, claiming the tape was distributed to others. 
The woman is seeking the maximum amount of damages allowed against a munic­ipality, $300,000, and cites the city of Hammond on 10 counts, including intention­al infliction of emotional distress, invasion of privacy and violation of the Fourth Amendment. 
The complaint was filed Tuesday at Lake Superior Court by the woman's attorney, Todd M. Conover. The woman's name is not included in the complaint. 


Bush: No 'simple solution' to war 
President dissatisfied with death toll and raids, still confident in Iraqi abilities 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Many Americans are unhappy with the war in Iraq, and President Bush said Wednesday he is dissatis­fied, too. But he does not want the United States to change direction, pull out or set timetables for withdraw­al. 
Bush came to the White House's East Room and delivered an impassioned defense of the long and unpopular war, arguing that to leave now would mean defeat. His appearance came 13 days before elec­tions in which Republicans fear Iraq could cost them control of the House, Senate or both. 
While saying he was open to recommendations from a blue-ribbon commission exploring U.S. options in Iraq, Bush cautioned, "The road to victory will not be easy. We should not expect a simple solution." 
"Our goals are unchang­ing," the president said. "We are flexible in our methods to achieving those goals." 

Bush expressed unwaver­ing confidence in Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, the U.S. generals running the war and Iraq's prime minister, Nouri al­Maliki, despite new strains between Baghdad and Washington. Bush's handling of Iraq, and month have been a serious support. Al-Maliki said the 
"The ultimate accounta­increasing numbers of concern to me and a serious raid "will not be repeated." bility rests with me," Bush Republican candidates have concern to the American Al-Maliki also criticized said of Iraq. "If people are signaled impatience with the people," the president said. the top U.S. military and unhappy about it, look right president's policies as U.S. Bush said the United diplomatic representatives to the president." He spoke deaths have climbed above States was changing tactics in Iraq for saying his gov­at an hourlong news confer­2,800. Bush indicated he to deal with circumstances ernment needed to set a ence dominated by Iraq shared the public's frustra­in Iraq but shouldn't change timetable to curb violence in questions. tion even as he pushed back the overall direction of the the country. "I affirm that 
Despite polls suggesting a against calls for troop with­war. this government represents Democratic takeover of at drawals. "Absolutely, we're win­the will of the people, and least the House, Bush said "I know many Americans ning," the president assert­no one has the right to he was confident are not satisfied with the sit­ed. impose a timetable on it," he Republicans would prevail. uation in Iraq," he said in a Bush voiced confidence in said. Dismissing Democrats' lengthy statement before al-Maliki, calling him "the Bush said he had asked hopes, Bush said, "We've got taking questions. ''I'm not right man" for Iraq now. for a transcript of al-Maliki's some people dancing in the satisfied either." October has In Baghdad, the Iraqi remarks before coming into end zone here in been the deadliest month leader took a hard slap at the East Room. Al-Maliki Washington, D.C., ... meas­this year for American the United States for a raid was correct in saying man­uring their drapes." forces, and the war soon by U.S. and Iraqi forces on dates could not be imposed 
Now in its fourth year, the will have lasted longer than the stronghold of a Shiite on Iraq, Bush said. He sug­war is the top campaign U.S. involvement in World militia led by a radical anti­gested there had been a issue. A majority of War II. American cleric on whom miscommunication between Americans are opposed to "The events of the past Al-Maliki relies for political U.S. and Iraqi officials. 

ARGENTINA 

Prosecutors want Iranian arrested 
Argentine soil, the bombing of the and 1997.
Associated Press 
Jewish cultural center in Buenos They also asked the judge to detain 
BUENOS AIRES -Argentine pros­Aires killed 85 people and injured several other former Iranian offi­ecutors asked a federal judge on more than 200 when an explosive­cials, including a former intelligence Wednesday to order the arrest of laden vehicle detonated near the chief, Ali Fallahijan, and former former Iranian President Hashemi building. Foreign Minister Ali Ar Velayati. Rafsanjani and seven others for the Iran's government has vehemently They also urged the arrest of two 1994 bombing of a Jewish cultural denied any involvement in the attack former commanders of Iran's center that killed scores of people. following repeated accusations by Revolutionary Guards, two former 
The decision to attack the center Jewish community and other leaders Iranian diplomats and a former "was undertaken in 1993 by the here. Hezbollah security chief for external highest authorities of the then-gov­Iranian authorities contacted here affairs. ernment of Iran," prosecutor Alberto by The Associated Press said they Nisman and fellow prosecutor Nisman said at a news conference. would have no comment. Marcelo Martinez Burgos said they 
He said the actual attack was Prosecutors urged the judge to suspected that Hezbollah undertook entrusted to the Lebanon-based seek international and national activities outside Lebanon only group Hezbollah. arrest orders for Rafsanjani, who "under orders directly emanating 
The worst terrorist attack ever on was Iran's president between 1989 from the regime in Tehran." 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, October 26, 2006 
ed in 2002. Agreement. "A handful of British politi­In the Protestant communities, 
Belfast 
cians come over ... make ran­the Union Jack waves from continued from page 1 dom laws for Northern houses while murals laud Oliver 
Ireland, fly back, and then Cromwell. In Catholic communi­between Nationalists, who want resume their lives again .... They ties, the green, white and orange Northern Ireland to become part don't even live in Ireland," he of the Republic of Ireland are of the Republic of Ireland, and said. "How can people stand for everywhere, and praise of the Unionists, who want the state to that?" IRA decorates family homes. be totally under the control of Students from the Dublin Though most students have the United Kingdom. Program have visited Belfast and some knowledge of the political 
After the tour and an educa­met with various political repre­history of Northern Ireland, see­tional session, Whelan and the sentatives since the program's ing Belfast themselves is pivotal students met with Philip founding in 1998. in their education process, McGuigan, a Sinn Fein Member Representatives from all four of Whelan said. of the Legislative Assembly. Northern "It brings home 
Sinn Fein is the political party Ireland's major to people how that was closely associated with political parties close and yet how the Provisional Irish Republican -Sinn Fein, the "It's an example of far apart the Army, the volunteer paramilitary Social the transition from Unionist and organization that since 1969 Democratic and Nationalist com­
an armed struggle 

acted with violence in support of Labour Party, the munities are," he
and terrorism to a

Nationalist causes, and so many Ulster Unionist said. of McGuigan's initial statements Party and the democratic republic." The human regarded the relationship Democratic context of between the two. Unionist Party -Northern
Kevin Whelan

The two groups shared the have met with Ireland's political 

program director

same political objective -unit­groups. problems was ing all of Ireland under one Irish On two occa­evident to Dublin government-and th-eir mem­sions, .the trips to Program partici­bership was drawn from the Stormont have pant Becky Antas same communities, McGuigan coincided with major milestones when touring the neighbor­said. in the Northern Ireland peace hoods. 
"There's no denying that some process. Notre Dame students "It was sad to see the many of the leadership [of Sinn Fein] were in Northern Ireland in children running about and was once involved in the IRA," April 1998 when the British and playing in the streets next to vio­he said. Irish governments signed the lent, graphic murals painted on 
McGuigan, who is in his early historic Good Friday Agreement, the sides of their houses," she 30s, said that he was never a Whelan said. This weekend, said. member of the IRA and never British and Northern Ireland Though Antas and her family "bombed or shot anyone." leaders meeting in Scotland have been active in Northern 
Clearly aware of his audience's came to the St. Andrews Ireland peace issues for years, nationality, he added that those Agreement, under which devolu­touring the murals made her IRA volunteers who did bomb tion of political power back to even more eager for the and shoot may not have been so the Northern Ireland assembly Unionists and Nationalists to different from the American should occur within months. "finally compromise and end the militias who took up arms to Four years ago, students met age-old conflict." resist their British colonizers. with the now infamous Denis Even outside the context of 
T h e Donaldson. At the Irish studies, the situation of Republicans time, Donaldson Northern Ireland is of interna­aren't made up of was a Sinn Fein tional importance, Whelan said. psychopaths," representative but "It's an example of the transi­
'We have always 

McGuigan said. was murdered in tion from an armed struggle and
recognized any

"Nobody wants to April after being terrorism to a democratic repub­pick up arms and solution on the discovered as a lic," he said. be killed or kill British spy. When Dublin Program partici­
island will have us 

someone else." On Oct. 14, the pant Michael Redding was walk­
all living together. " 

The IRA decom-group toured the ing through the neighborhoods, 
, missioned in 2005 political murals he noticed the looks on resi­and has ceased Philip McGuigan located within the dents' faces as they saw this intelligence and Catholic and group of students taking a guid­

Sinn Fein member 

fundraising activi­Protestant commu-ed tour, complete with local his­ties, Whelan later nities of Belfast. torian, of their neighborhood. said. These brightly col­"It wasn't that they didn't want 
McGuigan emphasized that his ored paintings on the side of you there," Redding said. "It was desire for a united Ireland did stores and homes typically com­just this look that they knew that not stem from mere idealism, memorate those who died dur­was as close as you would ever but rather practicality. ing the Troubles, but the murals come to understanding the pain 
"It makes sense for the people are extremely sectarian in and division the Troubles have of this island to decide their des­nature. The Troubles refers to caused." tinies" without the interference the period of violence in of British rule in Northern Northern Ireland from the late Contact Karen Langley at Ireland, he said. 1960s until the Good Friday klanglel @nd.edu 
This British presence in Ireland, and not hatred between Catholics and Protestants, was the cause of violence in Northern Ireland, McGuigan said. 

Anti-terror progran1s to face revisions 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Two anti­terrorism ID programs have been sent back to the drawing board and a third is being farmed out to private companies after costing hundreds of mil­lions of dollars. 
Begun after the Sept. 11, 2001, hijackings, the programs were supposed to help prevent catastrophic terrorist attacks on the U.S. transportation system by checking airline passenger names against watch lists and providing special identification cards to every worker with access to airports, railroads, seaports or trucks. 
So far, the Transportation Security Administration ­which has been overseeing development of the three pro­grams-has not gone beyond testing, has issued no IDs and has screened no passengers against terrorist lists. 
TSA chief Kip Hawley defend­ed the agency's efforts this week, saying the projects by their very nature use expensive and unreliable advanced tech­nology. 
All three are back on track, Hawley said. "Massive changes have happened here," he said. "We have a good acquisitions team and a good process." 
According to documents obtained by The Associated Press, the agency has spent more than $200 million on the Transportation Worker Identity Credential, Secure Flight and Registered Traveler programs. 
On all three, the TSA and con­tractors hired by the agency have spent more than anticipat­ed, missed deadlines and raised questions about their ability to protect the public's privacy and the private sector's commercial interests. 
Congressional investigators have warned repeatedly that the agency is mismanaging the pro­grams. 
"Five years after 9/11, the Bush Administration and TSA are stuck in neutral on critical security measures. said Massachusetts Rep. Ed Markey, a senior Democrat on the Homeland Security Committee. 

"The lack of oversight by this Republican Congress on this program and countless others is just another reason Americans are ready to head in a new direction in November," Markey said. 
Hawley called Secure Flight the most important of the three projects. It is envisioned as a computer-based program to check all airline passengers' names against terrorist watch lists before they board an air­plane. 
Airlines already check names against the lists and alert TSA officials when a passenger's name appears similar to one on a watch list. The system has led to thousands of false identifica­tions. More than 30,000 people who are not terrorists have asked TSA to remove their names from the lists since Sept. 11, 2001. 
The TSA for four years tried to develop a technology system to take over the task of checking names against watch lists. The major contractors on the project were IBM, Lockheed Martin and Eagle Force Associates. Also involved in testing were Acxiom Corp., HNC Software, Infoglide Software, and Ascent Technology. 
In February, the Government Accountability Office found security vulnerabilities with Secure Flight and it was sus­pended for retooling -after $110 million had been spent. 
Hawley said the project stalled because of debate about whether it should try to identify unknown terrorists -which raises civil liberties concerns ­or simply match names against watch lists. 
"That debate was played out," he said. "Congress said this is simply going to be watch-list matching." 
The Transportation Workers Identity Credential, or TWIC, is an ID card to be issued to about 6 million longshoremen, mechanics, airport workers, locomotive engineers and truck drivers -if they pass govern­ment background checks. The card will use a biometric identi­fier -fmgerprint or eye scan, for example. 
Ave Maria School of Law offers a rigorous curriculum that successfully prepares graduates for 
"We have always recognized any solution on the island will the practice oflaw in all jurisdictions throughout the U.S. Our students benefit from an emphasis on have us all living together," he 
ethics, natural law, the moral foundations of law, and the rich Catholic intellectual tradition. 
said. During the question and 
Inspired by Pope John Paul Il's encyclical, Fides et Ratio, Ave Maria School ofLaw produces 
answer session, Whelan chal­lenged McGuigan's assertion that graduates who are extremely well prepared for the practic~ of law and will approach their legal Sinn Fein was a party which 
careers as an extension of their personal values and faith. 
appealed to young people throughout Ireland. 
"Most young people now Ave Maria graduates have: would rather have the Taliban 
• Taken the bar exam in 33 states, achieving a first-time pass rate of88 percentrunning Ireland than Sinn Fein," Whelan said. "You've tarnished • Secured 34 prestigious judicial clerkships, 28 ofthese with federal courts
the ideas of the very people you want." • Accepted employment at national and regional law firms, federal and state agencies, and Later, Whelan said that while 
a host of public-interest organizations 
he was trying to provoke the politician into giving a straight, 
Visit Ave Maria's website for information about the Law School's generous scholarship program. 
emotional answer, he said it was 
As many as 20 full-tuition awards will be granted to members ofthe 2007 entering class. 
true that young people in the south see Sinn Fein as a relic of Ireland's violent past. 
The meeting at Stormont con­vinced Dublin Program partici­pant Matt Anderson that the troubled history of Northern Ireland has not been resolved, particularly since British parlia­ment members have governed the state since the Northern Ireland Assembly was suspend­
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Thursday, October 26, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP Stocks 
Dow 

12,134.68 +6.80
}ones 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,200 136 1,093 2,917,411,480 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  +0.71  +0.30  42.43  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +0.46  +0.10  21.72  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +2.71  +0.14  5.30  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.11  +0.03  28.31  
Treasuries  
10-YEARNOTE  -1.06  -0.051  4.773  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.10  -0.005  4.985  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.91  -0.045  4.897  
5-YEAR NOTE  -1.04  -0.050  4.751  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +205  61.40  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +3.20  590.80  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.05  89.53  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  118.8050  
EURO  0.7914  
POUND  0.5316  
CANADIAN$  1.1233  
Robert C. Trosten with 


IN BRIEF 
Interest rate left unchanged 
WASHINGTON -The Federal Reserve held interest rates steady yet again, noting the economy had slowed but saying growth would probably pick up in the months ahead. 
With elections looming, Fed policymakers, wrapping up a two-day meeting on Wednesday, delivered a largely balanced message about economic conditions. Policymakers blended equal parts of caution about inflation risks with confidence that the economy's nearly 5-year-old expansion isn't in danger of petering out. 
Against that backdrop, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and all but one of his central bank colleagues felt comfortable staying the course and kept an important interest rate at 5.25 per­cent for the third meeting in a row. That meant commercial banks' prime interest rate -for certain credit cards, home equity lines of credit and other loans-remained at 8.25 percent. 
ImCione names Carl Icahn chairman 
NEW YORK -Financier Carl lcahn won the nasty battle to take control of biotech company lmClone Systems Inc. on Wednesday. The com­pany named him chairman and said the four board members he was trying to oust are leav­ing, including the interim CEO, who resigned effective immediately. lmClone shares climbed more than 5 percent. 
Icahn, who owns roughly 14 percent of the company, had been seeking a management shake-up since September after declaring the board had done a deplorable job running lmClone, noting it had failed to both fully capi­talize on the potential of cancer drug Erbitux and fmd a suitable CEO. 
In a statement, Icahn said his top priorities were finding a new chief executive and repair­ing relations with Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., which owns about 17 percent of ImClone and jointly markets Erbitux, ImClone's only product. 
Erbitux is facing competition from a rival product from Amgen Inc. that was recently approved. 
lmClone said that interim CEO Joseph L. Fischer, who resigned Wednesday, would be replaced by a newly formed executive commit­tee chaired by board member Alex Denner, who works for Icahn. Denner said candidates for the CEO slot had already been identified. 



Chief financial officer indicted 
Refco Inc. leader defrauded investors resulting in more than $1 billion in losses 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -The for­
mer chief financial offi­
cer of Refco Inc., one of 
the world's biggest com­
modities brokerages, 
was accused in an 
indictment Tuesday of 
defrauding investors in 
a scheme that resulted 
in losses of more than 
$1 billion. 

An indictment in U.S. 
District Court charged 
conspiracy, securities 
fraud, false filings and 
wire fraud. It also 
added new charges to 
the case against Refco's 
former chief executive 
officer, Phillip R. 
Bennett. 

Prosecutors said 
Trosten assisted Phillip 
R. Bennett, formerly Hefco's chief executive officer, in hiding hun­dreds of millions of dol­lars of debt owed to Refco by a company controlled by Bennett. 
The superseding indictment also added new charges against Bennett concerning fraud against holders of Refco's bonds. 
Trosten, 37, of Sarasota, Fla., was scheduled to make his initial court appearance Wednesday. Bennett, 57, of Gladstone, N.J., is to defraud Refco's audi­through its own and its assisting Bennett in car­currently free on $50 tors and investors from customers' trading in rying out the year-end million bail and subject the mid 1990s to the mid 1990s, when transactions, including to electronic monitor­October 2005, when Refco was privately held defrauding the pur­ing. Refco announced it had and controlled in part chasers of $600 million 
Lawyers for both men discovered it was owed by Bennett. in notes issued by Refco did not immediately $430 million by a com­To hide the losses, in 2004 by hiding from return telephone mes­pany controlled by Bennett transferred the purchasers the exis­sages for comment. Bennett. them to appear as a tence and size of the 
If convicted, Trosten The announcement debt owed to Refco by a debt owed to Refco. could face up to 45 caused the price of company controlled by It also charges years in prison while Refco stock to plunge. Bennett, prosecutors Bennett with defrauding Bennett could face up to The company which said. the purchasers of $583 85 years in prison. went public in August The indictment million of Refco's com­
Bennett was already 2005 was later delisted accused Bennett and mon stock when the charged with conspiring by the New York Stock Trosten of manipulating company went public. to commit securities Exchange and it and the company's financial The indictment fraud for hiding from many of its subsidiaries records from 1999 alleged that Bennett auditors and investors filed for bankruptcy a through 2005 to make it caused Trosten to losses that Refco and its week after the appear as if the debt receive a payment of customers had incurred announcement. owed to Refco was actu­about $48 million in in the financial markets. According to the ally owed by a Refco August 2004 when the 
The indictment indictment, Refco sus­customer. leveraged buyout trans­charged Trosten and tained hundreds of mil­The indictment action was being han­Bennett with conspiring lions of dollars in losses charged Trosten with dled. 

Steel corp. reaffirms merger intent 
Associated Press that is not expected until January. And vowed to fight the CSN merger, invok­
shareholders have a chance to reject ing a successorship clause in the labor 
MORGANTOWN, W.Va.-Wheeling the plan at the Nov. 17 annual meet­contract if necessary. 
Pittsburgh Steel Corp. reaffirmed its ing in Wheeling, where they will be The USW has the right to reject any 
intention Wednesday to merge with a asked to choose between Bradley's deal that changes controlling interest 
Brazilian steelmaker despite some team and a competing board of direc­in the company. 
shareholders' objections, signing an tors. The structuring of the CSN deal calls 
agreement to create what it claims Wheeling-Pitt, which has survived for a $225 million, 9 percent interest 
will be a well-capitalized company two bankruptcies and employs some loan that would convert to 11.8 mil­
with a more flexible cost structure. 3,100 people at plants in West lion shares in the new company. 
In a prepared statement, Wheeling­Virginia, Ohio and Pennsylvania, is at CSN would take 49.5 percent own­
Pitt Chairman and CEO James G. the center of a takeover battle ership of the new company, while 
Bradley said he's confident the deal between CSN and Illinois-based Wheeling-Pitt shareholders would 
with Companhia Siderurgica Nacional Esmark Inc., a steel supplier eager to control the other 50.5 percent. But the 
positions his company "to deliver sus­get into manufacturing. deal also calls for CSN's ownership to 
tainable earnings as well as solid The United Steelworkers union jump to 64 percent after 18 months, 
future cash flows." opposes the CSN merger, saying subject to the union's approval. If the 
But the agreement must still be Esmark offers better long-term securi­union rejects their ownership, the 
approved by shareholders in a vote ty for Ohio Valley workers. It has $225 million becomes debt. 
page 8 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, October 26, 2006 
fRANCE 
Youths march with grievance list 
Immigrants present complaints to officials on riot anniversary 
Associated Press 
PARIS -Hundreds of youths from the poor, immigrant suburbs that erupted in riots last year marched through Paris Wednesday to present a collection of 20.000 complaints to lawmak­ers and urge the disenfranchised to make themselves heard with a vote, not violence. 
Hours later, six to 10 young peo­ple forced passengers off a public bus in a western Paris suburb and then set the vehicle on fire, offi­cials said. minorities all over France. 
No one was hurt in the incident, The demonstrators held ragged­which raised the specter of a looking notebooks filled with com­repeat of the three weeks of fiery plaints while crossing southern violence that rocked the country Paris toward the Assembly, the last year, and overshadowed the lower house of parliament, after a peaceful message of Wednesday's stop at the Senate. march. "Immigrants scare the French" 
The events came ahead of read one unsigned entry. Another Friday's first anniversary of the entry, by a 17 -year-old boy from riots by disaffected youths from Besancon in eastern France, the housing projects where people urged companies to use their prof­of Arab and black African descent its to create more jobs. live outside France's big cities. Police blocked the marchers as Many in the country fear new vio­they neared the National lence with rising tensions in Assembly, allowing only a small recent weeks. group to reach the parliament. 
"The context is still the same, Security forces have been girding nothing has changed. So the situa­for renewed violence around tion is propitious for other event<; Friday's anniversary, and many like last year," said Samir Mihi, co­streets throughout southern Paris founder of the AC-Le Feu group were blocked by vans of riot that collected the grievances from police. 

The crowd sang "La Marseillaise," France's national anthem, and broke into chants of "Vive Ia France," proclaiming their allegiance to a country where they often feel unwelcome. Last year's riots sprang in part from anger over high unemploy­ment and discrimination against immigrants and their French-born children, many of them Muslims from former French colonies in Africa. 
Police said the violence, howev­er, was not driven by Islamic groups. 
France's inability to better inte­grate minorities and recent vio­lence against police are bocoming major political issues as the cam­paign heats up for next year's presidential and parliamentary 
elections. 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26,7:00-10:00 PM 
• 
Open Lecture followed by book signing 

• 
DeBartolo Hall, Room 102 

• 
Open to students, alumni and the public 


FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 3:00-5:00 PM 
• 
Meet-n-greet reception followed by book signing 

• 
ECK Visitors Center 

• 
Light refreshments prm·ided 

• 
Open to students, alumni and the public 


DR. PAUL A. WRIGHT (Class of '72) first met Mother Teresa in 1992 at a center for the homeless in Tijmma, Mexico. Despite professional success as a cardiologist, Paul was filled with anxiety and a heavy heart, but time spent with Mother Teresa transformed him. In 2004, he received the Thomas A. Dooley Award from the Notre Dame Alumni Association for humanitatian ac­complishments such as the "Poorest of the Poor" that distributes clothing to underprivileged people in the U.S., and the "Medication Assistance Program" that makes prescription dmgs available to needy patients. Each year he re­turns to Notre Dame to offer a Medical Ethics Symposium for students. Dr. Wright and his family live in Ohio. 
Sponsored by Ave Maria Press, Center for Ethics and Culture, and the Eck Visitors Center 
CONGO 

Beans dis111issed as ne"W voting process 
Associated Press 
MU.JA -Blondine Pendeyiki brought a handful of red beans to the voting station to cast the first ballot of her life and was dismayed when she was told she couldn't use them to vote. 
Election workers say that after the first round of voting in Congo, they found notes like "I love you, I vote for you!" on ballots, or beans, peas or pebbles carefully counted to correspond to a candidate's number on the ballot and folded into the vot­ing papers -instead of the required thumbprints or crosses. 
They expect to have to dis­qualify more such ballots in Sunday's second and decisive round. 
In a largely illiterate Congo trying to embrace democracy after four decades of dictator­ship, 42-year-old Pendeyiki is far from alone. She still does­n't understand why voting officials didn't accept her beans during the first round in July. 
"Many in my country have never voted before, so we have to teach them why they can't use beans or stones to vote," said Deodata Bunzigiye, a social worker and election observer who says she has helped some 30.000 illiterate and poorly educated Congolese learn to vote. 

"My work can be very tough. The Pygmies, and Africans in general, have oral traditions," she said. "Learning to use a pencil is not a priority." 
President Joseph Kabila faces Vice President Jean­Pierre Bemba, a former rebel leader, in a runoff for the presidency of a country the size of Europe. 
In the rural east, few Pygmies have access to televi­sion or campaign posters and most had no idea what the candidates looked like. So during the July 30 first round, unable to recognize them, they came with beans to indi­cate their choice. 
Most knew they wanted to vote for Kabila and knew he was listed as the seventh can­didate on a ballot sheet that listed 33 contenders for the presidency, Bunzigiye said. So they folded the ballots around seven beans or pebbles to indicate their choice, and handed them in. 
Experts say it could be years before communities in Congo's inaccessible interior have access to voter education programs. 
This book presents tnan)' qfMother Teresa :S oton great spiritual ideas and 
ideals and inspires otherpeople to go on doing the UJork she did so U1ell on earth. One can onlj' bless this work andprayfor its totalpro:;pet·ity in the days to come. 
FR. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C. 
SPECIAL OFFER! NOW ONLY $7! 
Bring in this coupon to receive discount for books purchased at either event! 
(No limit on amount of books you can buy) 
ISBN: 1-59471-072-4 128 pages, Reg. $9.95 



Ami\_ 
A Ministry of the ... Indiana Province of Holy Cross 

Thursday, October 26, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
N.Y. Republicans fear 
Texan executed for 111urder plot 
Summers paid man $10,000 to kill his mother, father and uncle 

De111ocratic tickets 
Associated Press 
HUNTSVILLE, Texas -A man was executed Wednesday for initiating a murder-for-hire plot that authorities said led to the fatal stabbings of his parents and an uncle. 
The lethal 

"Greg was pure evil. 
injection of The U.S. Gregory He'd been bleeding Supreme Court Summers, 48, three weeks
them dry for money 
came more ago refused to 
over the years, and
than seven review his years after the when he realized he case. Three execution of appeals went
couldn't get any more 
Andrew to the high
out of them, he figured 
Cantu, con­court late victed of tak­he could get their life Wednesday, ing the and all were
insurance. 
$10,000 offer rejected. and fatally Authorities 
Miles LeBlanc 
stabbing Gene said the 1990 and Helen prosecutor slayings were 
tried Wednesday to block the punishment by challenging the constitutionality of the lethal injection method, accusing prosecutors of hid­ing evidence and raising questions about testimony from a trial witness who implicated 
Summers. 

Summers, both 64, and Billy Mack Summers, 60. Their home in Abilene was set on fire after they were attacked and their bodies were found in the rub­ble. 
Asked by Warden Thomas Prasifka if he had a final statement, Summers replied "no." Eight minutes later, at 
10:16 p.m. EDT, he was pro­
nounced dead. Attorneys for Summers 
the result of 
Summers' par­

ents' frustra­tion with bailing their son out of his financial problems and Greg Summers' attempt to get $24,000 in life insurance. 
"His father had come to the end of his rope with Greg and was starting to cut him off financially," said Kent Sutton, who prosecuted Summers. "Greg was going to inherit everything and that was one of the reasons he wanted the 
house burned." 
Prosecutors also showed how Summers previously col­lected insurance payoffs from fires at his grandmother's house and a vehicle. 
"Greg was pure evil. He'd been bleeding them dry for money over the years, and when he realized he couldn't get any more out of them, he figured he could get their insurance," said Miles LeBlanc, Sutton's prosecutor partner. 
"He was so cruel in what he did to them and he needs to pay," said Brenda Steele, who lost her aunt and two uncles. "They loved Greg and they overlooked a lot of things they probably shouldn't have." 
Cantu, 31, had denied involvement and blamed the killings on two companions who testified against him. 
"We were able to find enough circumstantial evi­dence to piece together a strong case," LeBlanc said. "Greg Summers earned his conviction." 
Summers was the 22nd inmate executed this year in Texas, the nation's most active death penalty state. At least three other inmates have execution dates over the next four weeks. 
Associated Press 
AURORA, N.Y. -The omi­nous chill Republicans are feeling these days has little to do with October's blustery winds and everything to do with the big coattails Hillary Rodham Clinton and Eliot Spitzer bring to the top of the state Democratic ticket on Election Day. 
With voters across the coun­ty signaling discontent with the Republican-led Congress and President Bush's adminis­tration, New York Republicans fear that three of their once­safe House seats are in jeop­ardy -out of 15 GOP seats nationwide that could swing the House to Democratic con­trol. 
"New York state is in a death spiral," state legislature candidate Tim Julian, a Republican, said at a recent political forum in Rome, N.Y. 
At the top of the Democratic ticket, Clinton is enjoying the rosy warmth of job security. Former Yonkers Mayor John Spencer, the little-known Republican challenger for her Senate seat, is expected to lose big. 
Similarly, Spitzer, the attor­ney general who built a head­lines-rich career going after white-collar crime on Wall Street, is strongly favored to win the state's governorship over Republican John Faso, a former state assembly minori­ty leader. 
"It's not been a good year for Republicans, that's for sure," said Cheri Heary, organizer of a recent cam­paign event in this Finger 
Lakes town for GOP congres­sional candidate Ray Meier. "They're a little dispirited, thinking Eliot Spitzer is going to win, but that's why we call them, that's why we bring them out for the vote." 
Meier is running to replace moderate Republican Sherwood Boehlert in New York's 24th Congressional District, a Republican strong­hold for decades, although it has significant numbers of blue-collar Democrats. 
Boehlert built a reputation as a moderate Republican who often bucked party lead­ership, particularly on envi­ronmental issues, and both candidates have sought to assume that moderate label. The Democrat in the race, Michael Arcuri, a district attorney, regulary refers to himself as a "Boehlert Democrat," though Boehlert has enthusiastically supported Meier. 
The district is also gripped by economic anxieties over jobs and taxes. Even Republican candidates blast the state government, which has been led for 12 years by GOP Gov. George Pataki. 
Heary, chairwoman of the Cayuga County GOP, said the state party has been of little help. Even in the middle of a furious campaign season, she said, she hasn't heard from the chairman in five months. 
"The feeling you get is that you're on your own," she said, as guests filled the mint-green kitchen of the 1850s farm­house where Meier thanked supporters for driving through a howling storm to see him. 


P vv~wzA/iLe/¥:. P ~Vo-¥ y 
P~cv¥ 

Apply ro-St:udy A brO'CUL IAttt SWVl.IJ1.01 lvl~ 2007-8 
PUEBLA, MEXICO 
Fall semester pre-med program Spring semester general program INTERNSHIPS 
MONTERREY, MEXICO 
Business and Engineering courses available Beginning Spanish courses offered Business and Engineering INTERNSHIPS 
INFORMATION SESSION 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2006, 5:30PM 
204 DEBARTOLO 

APPLICATION DEADLINE: NOVEMBER 15, 2006 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: http://www.nd.edu/""'0iS 
page 10 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, October 26, 2006 

Study: Scans detect early cancer 
Technology can create peace of mind for those with health concerns 
Associated Press 1990s, when CT scans were small, you can essentially cure 
developed. most of them," Henschke said. 
A controversial new study These sophisticated X-rays The scans cost between $200 offers the strongest evidence yet produce images of the lungs and $300, roughly double the that screening smokers for lung from many angles and can price of a manunogram. Insurers cancer with computerized chest reveal pea-size growths long are not covering lung scans scans can save lives, much as before they produce symptoms. because the government does mammograms do for women Interest in the scans rose in not recommend them. with breast cancer. 1999, when Dr. Claudia The biggest weakness in the 
Doctors have long had doubts Henschke of New York­study is that it lacked a compari­that early detection of tumors Presbyterian Hospital!Weill son group, making it impossible could improve survival, and also Cornell Medical Center published to tell how people would have feared that screening would lead a landmark study showing that fared if they didn't receive a CT to too many false alarms and they found far more tumors than scan. unnecessary biopsies. Scans are conventional X-rays did. Henschke said the general not now recommended, but Her new study, reported in population can be the compari­many smokers have been paying Thursday's New England Journal son group, because lung cancer for them on their own for their of Medicine, extends these is so common and its survival peace of mind. results to a odds are so well 
The new study strongly sug­larger group known. But gests there is a survival benefit. of people and many scientists But it does not prove the point, reports on "They need to know disagreed, and because it lacked a comparison survival. said her study
that the chances are
group, many scientists say. Dozens of falls short for 
In the study, people whose researchers good that something this reason. early lung tumors were detected around the abnormal will be "It raises great by CT scans and promptly w o r l d found.,, hope for CT removed had an estimated 10-screened screening," but year survival rate of 92 percent 31,567 people it doesn't prove -much better than the roughly at high risk of Joan Schiller a benefit, said 70 percent who typically survive, lung cancer cancer specialist Dr. Denise and far better than the dismal 5 because they Aberle of the percent who make it that long were current University of after the disease has spread or former California, Los beyond the lungs. smokers or had been exposed to Angeles, who is helping conduct 
"It gives us greater confidence a lot of secondhand smoke. a government-funded study that that screening may really offer Participants were initially should give more definitive advantages in saving lives from screened between 1993 and answers. It is screening 53,000 lung cancer," said Dr. Robert 2005, and the vast majority current and former smokers Smith, director of screening at came back for repeated screen­with CT scans or regular chest the American Cancer Society, ings about a year later. Thirteen X-rays to see whether either can which was among more than percent of those who were ini­cut lung cancer deaths. The two dozen groups that funded tially screened and 5 percent Mayo Clinic also is leading a the study. who had repeated screenings screening study, and others are 
Even though the study lacked a had suspicious spots that under way in Europe. comparison group, he said, "it's required further testing. Biopsies Until there is proof, patients highly unlikely that this com­were performed on 535 patients; considering screening should ask pletely invalidates the observa­484 were diagnosed with lung their doctors about the pros and tion of a favorable benefit from cancer, including 412 in the early cons, said Dr. Joan Schiller, a early diagnosis." stage. Most had surgery or cancer specialist at the 
Lung cancer is the world's top chemotherapy, and eight were University of Texas Southwestern cancer killer. About 174,470 untreated. Medical School. Americans and 1 million people Researchers then calculated "They need to know that the worldwide will be diagnosed survival probability using a com­chances are good that something with it this year. The vast majori­mon statistical tool. The estimat­abnormal will be found," which ty will die, largely because the ed 10-year survival rate, regard­could lead to false alarms, she disease is found too late for less of when the cancer was said. treatment to do much good. Only diagnosed or the type of treat­In light of the latest results, at 16 percent of cases in the United ment, was 80 percent. least one patient advocacy group States are detected in Stage 1, That increased to 88 percent if -the Lung Cancer Alliance -is when tumors are still confined to the cancer was detected in an urging doctors to regularly the lung. early stage, and to 92 percent if screen patients for lung cancer. 
Studies in the 1970s found that such patients had surgery within "This is the most important screening smokers with regular a month of diagnosis. The eight breakthrough for the lung can­X-rays did not improve lung can­untreated patients all died within cer community that has ever cer survival, and such efforts five years of diagnosis. happened," president Laurie were largely abandoned until the "When you find it when it's Fenton said in a statement. 


Research opponents to air ad during Series 
The Fox ad has triggered a
Associated Press 
backlash, with some criticizing 
ST. LOUIS -Days after actor it as exploitive. Conservative Michael J. Fox appeared in a TV radio commentator Rush ad urging Missouri voters to Limbaugh claimed Fox was support stem cell research, "either off his medication or act­opponents will unveil their own ing," though he later apologized. commercial during the World Dr. John Boockvar, a neuro­Series Wednesday night. surgeon and assistant professor 
The Cardinals' starting pitcher at Weill Cornell Medical Center for Game 4, Jeff at New York's Suppan, is Presbyterian among several Hospital, called
"Ifthere is one single
celebrities who Limbaugh's appear in the disease that has the claim "ludi­minute-long ad. highest potential for crous." Others include Boockvar said
benefit from stem cell
Arizona those with Cardinals quar­research it's Parkinson's terback Kurt Parkinson ,s. ,, have "on" and Warner, Kansas "off' spells. City Royals play­"If there is
John Boockvar
er Mike one single dis­Sweeney and neurologist ease that has two actors -the highest Patricia Heaton potential for of TV's "Everybody Loves benefit from stem cell Raymond" and Jim Caviezel, research," Boockvar said who portrayed Jesus in "The Tuesday, "it's Parkinson's." Passion of the Christ." The Missouri ad opposing 
"Amendment 2 claims it bans Amendment 2 was finished human cloning, but in the 2,000 Tuesday and was immediately words you don't read, it makes available on the Internet. cloning a constitutional right," Missourians Against Human Suppan says in the commercial. Cloning spokeswoman Cathy "Don't be deceived." Ruse said the ad was already in 
Amendment 2 would provide the works, "but we sped up pro­constitutional protections for duction after the Michael J. Fox embryonic stem cell research in ad came out. Missouri. The 30-second spot "That ad claims opponents featuring Fox, 45, who sways want to criminalize research uncontrollably in the ad due to and prevent the expansion of his Parkinson's disease, is actu­stem cell research. Those claims ally a commercial for are just false and misleading," Democratic U.S. Senate candi­Ruse said. "Our gripe with date Claire McCaskill. Amendment 2 is it creates a 
But the Senate race and stem right to do human cloning and it cell issue are intertwined -creates the right to human egg McCaskill's Republican oppo­trafficking for cloning nent, Sen. Jim Talent, opposes research." the stem cell measure. Connie Farrow, a spokes­
Fox also has lent his celebrity woman for Missouri Coalition to Democrats Rep. Benjamin L. for Lifesaving Cures, a support­Cardin, running for the Senate er of the amendment, called the in Maryland, and Wisconsin Gov. ad "a pathetic attempt to distort Jim Doyle, who is seeking re­the facts and mislead voters." election. Both politicians also "To believe the claims made in back stem cell research. their ad you'd have to believe 
"They say all politics is local, that over 100 nonprofit patient but it's not always the case," and medical organizations, Fox says in the ad that began including the Missouri State airing Saturday during Game 1 Medical Association, the of the World Series. "What you Juvenile Diabetes Research do in Missouri matters to mil­Foundation and the Muscular lions of Americans -Americans Dystrophy Association, just to like me." name a few, are conspiring to 
mislead voters," Farrow said. "And that defies commonsense." 
Celebrities have a long history of supporting political candi­dates. But there's no question that Fox, who campaigned for John Kerry in the 2004 presi­dential race, is uniquely suited as a spokesman for stem cell research. 
Fox, who starred on TV's "Family Ties" and "Spin City" plus the "Back to the Future" films, shakes and rocks as he 
directly addresses the camera, the effects of his disease clearly




LONDON PROGRAM 
apparent. 
"The reason that he's power­ful is that he's comparatively young," said Kathleen Hall 
Jamieson, director for the University of Pennsylvania's 
APPLICATION MEETING 
Annenberg Public Policy Center. "As a result, a lot of people in 
FOR FALL 2007 & SPRING 2008 
Thursday, October 26, 2006 
that age range can look at him and say, 'If that can happen to
141 DeBartolo 
him, it can happen to me."' Jamieson noted that the stem
6:00pm 
cell issue has the potential to be an advantage to Democrats in the November elections since
SOPHOMORES WHO MISSED THE SEPTEMBER 
polls have shown the majority of Americans favor some form of
MEETING ARE WELCOME! 
stem cell research. Critics say it requires the destruction of a human embryo. 
Thursday, October 26, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
N.J. court opens the doors to gay tnarriage 
Lawmakers determine same-sex unions must be honored 'Within state 
Associated Press 
TRENTON, N.J. -New Jersey's highest court opened the door Wednesday to making the state the second in the nation to allow gay marriage, ruling that lawmakers must offer same-sex couples either marriage or something like it, such as civil unions. 
In a ruling that fell short of what either side wanted or most feared, the state Supreme Court declared that gay couples are entitled to the same rights as heterosexual ones. The justices gave lawmakers 180 days to rewrite the laws. 
The ruling is similar to the 1999 high-court ruling in Vermont that led the state to cre­ate civil unions, which confer all of the rights and benefits avail­able to married couples under state law. 
"Although we cannot find that a fundamental right to same-sex marriage exists in this state, the unequal dispensation of rights and benefits to committed same­sex partners can no longer be tolerated under our state Constitution," Justice Barry T. Albin wrote for the four-member majority. 
The court said the Legislature "must either amend the mar­riage statutes to include same­sex couples or create a parallel statutory structure" that gives gays all the privileges and obli­gations married couples have. 
The vote was 4-3, with the three dissenting justices arguing that the majority did not go far enough. They asserted that gay couples should have the "right to the title of mar­riage" as well as its benefits. 
Gay rights 

ment. 
For gay rights advocates, there was debate over whether the ruling was a victory. 
Lara Schwartz, legal director of Human Rights Campaign, said if legislators have to choose between civil unions and mar­riage, it is a no-lose situation for gay couples. "They get to decide whether it's chocolate or double­chocolate chip," Schwartz said. 
Steven Goldstein, executive director of Garden State Equality, New Jersey's main gay rights group, said his organiza­tion wants nothing short of mar­riage. "We get to go from the back of the bus to the middle of the bus," he complained. 
The New Jersey high court castigated the treatment same­sex couples receive under the law. 
"The seeming ordinariness of plaintiffs' lives is belied by the social indignities and economic difficulties that they daily face due to the inferior legal standing of their relationships compared to that of married couples," the court said. 
Outside the court, news of the ruling caused confusion, with many of the roughly 100 gay marriage supporters outside ask­ing each other what it meant. 
''I'm definitely encouraged," said Chris Lodewyks, one of the plaintiffs who gathered at a Newark law office. But he added, ''I'm not sure what this exactly means in terms of marriage." 
Another plaintiff, Saundra Toby-Heath, was more effusive: "I feel they were listening and paying attention to us as human beings who wanted to have the same rights." 
Garden State Equality, New Jersey's main gay political organization, quickly announced that three lawmakers would introduce a bill in the Legislature 
to give full 
marriage 
rights to gay 
couples. 

activists had " N e w
"New Jersey is a 
seen New Jersey Jersey is a
progressive state and
as a promising progressive place because it has a tradition for state and has is a largely tolerance.,, a tradition of Democratic tolerance," state in the said one· of 
Reed Gusciora 
Northeast. The the lawmak­only state to Democratic assemblyman e r s 
allow gay mar­riage is Massachusetts. The only states allowing civil unions are Vermont and Connecticut. New Jersey is also one of just five states that have no law or consti­tutional amendment expressly banning gay marriage. 
If the court had legalized gay marriage outright, the effect could have been more far-reach­ing, and New Jersey could have become more of a magnet for gay couples than Massachusetts, which has a law barring out-of­state couples from marrying there if their marriages would not be recognized in their home states. New Jersey has no such law. 
A clear-cut ruling legalizing gay marriage this close to Election Day could also have been a political bombshell, gal­vanizing Republicans and the religious right. Eight states have gay marriage bans on their bal­lots in November. 
New Jersey Republicans, who are in the minority in the Legislature, said they would work to ban same-sex unions by enacting a constitutional amend-
Democratic 
Assemblyman 
R e e d 
Gusciora. 

GOP Assemblyman Richard Merkt said he would seek to have all seven justices impeached. "Neither the framers of New Jersey's 1947 constitu­tion, nor the voters who ratified it, ever remotely contemplated the possibility of same-sex mar­riage," Merkt said. 
Gay couples in New Jersey can already apply for domestic part­nerships under a law passed in 2004. Among other things, domestic partnerships give cou­ples the right to inherit posses­sions if there is no will and health care coverage for part­ners of state employees. 
Democratic Gov. Jon S. Corzine supports domestic partnerships, but not gay marriage. 
Former Gov. James E. McGreevey, who resigned in 2004 after announcing that he was gay and had an affair with a male staff member, praised the court's decision. "I applaud the court's courage," McGreevey said. "I regret not having had the fortitude to embrace this right during my tenure as governor." 
Madonna to adopt African son 
Tells Oprah Wednesday that her baby, David Banda, is healthy 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Madonna said the 13-month-old boy she plans to adopt from the African coun­try of Malawi is healthy and thriving in her London home, in an interview that aired Wednesday on "The Oprah Winfrey Show." 
The child, David Banda, was taken to London last week after Malawi's High Court granted Madonna and her husband, director Guy Ritchie, an interim adoption order. 
Madonna said David was healthy, despite having over­come malaria and tuberculosis. The interview was taped Tuesday via satellite from London. 
"David is amazing," the 48­year-old pop star said. "What really surprises me is how great my children are with him and how he's transitioned so easily from living in Africa in an orphanage to living in our house." 
David's father, Yohane Banda, has said he didn't understand the adoption meant he would give up custody of his son "for good." But in an interview post­ed Tuesday on Time magazine's Web site, Banda said he will not contest the adoption. 
"I don't want my child, who is already gone, to come back," he said. "I will be killing his future ifI accept that." 
Banda has said he is too poor to raise David. 
Madonna said she met Banda, who thanked her for giving his son a new life. "I sat in that room, I looked into that man's eyes," she said. 
The 30-minute interview with Winfrey was the first time Madonna had spoken on TV 
October 26 So What Do You Plan To Do With a 
Philosophy Degree? 
Meet the Career Center Team and find the answers to those pesky questions from parents and roommates. 
Raffle to Win: iPod & Portable DVD Player 
119 O'Shaughnessy 
Contact information: 
Office of Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 
~ 
w 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 

about the adoption, which has ages other people from doing been challenged by human the same thing," she said. "I rights groups that allege the feel the media is doing a great singer used her fame and for­disservice to all the orphans of tune to flout Malawai's adoption Africa, period, not just the laws. orphans of Malawi." 
"If only my wealth and my Winfrey, whose talk show is position could have made things based in Chicago, commended 
go  faster,"  Madonna for  
she said.  "I  the adoption.  
assure you it  "I  have  to  
doesn't mat­ter who you are and how  "I did have my heart set on David, but I was also  say, Madonna, that's a brave thing that you  
much money  told there was a  did," Winfrey  
you have, nothing goes fast in  possibility I wouldn ,t be able to adopt him. ,,  said. "This audience, I k n o w ,  
Africa."  applauds you  
Typically, prospective parents are  Madonna singer  for it." In a phone interview  

required to stay in the country dur­ing the 18-month evaluation period, but the judge who granted the interim custody order Oct. 12 said the issue of residence is not specified in the laws. A social worker in London will check on David for the next 18 months. 
Madonna said she initially was urged to consider adopting a child in Ethiopia or Kenya because of Malawi's vague adoption laws. 
"I did have my heart set on David, but I was also told there was a possibility I wouldn't be able to adopt him," she said. "I was told to look around at all the orphanages." 
Madonna said she was wor­ried the firestorm of publicity that surrounded the adoption may dissuade other parents from adopting children from Africa. 
''I'm disappointed because more than anything it discour­from Miami, 
Ricky Martin, 

who has defended the rights of children through his foundation and as an ambassador for UNICEF, told The Associated Press: "I know Madonna as a mother, and she's exemplary. The love she gives her kids is a dream, and I know that her heart is big enough to adopt not just one child but to adopt 20." 
When asked if he would like to adopt someday, the 34-year­old pop star said: "Totally. I don't know when, but right now I am sponsoring three children in India and we have a very beautiful connection." 
David Banda has spent most of his life in an orphanage. His mother died shortly after child­birth. 
Madonna and Ritchie traveled to the southeast African country of Malawi on Oct. 4. They spent eight days visiting orphanages the singer is funding through her charity. 
page 12 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, October 26, 2006 
Colleges stage large 
•



campaigns 
Associated Press Cornell University is going all-out this week. Today features a news con­ference in New York City with the mayor. On Friday, 1,000 volunteers and wealthy alum­ni such as former Citigroup chairman Sanford "Sandy" Weill will be back on the main campus in Ithaca, N.Y., for an elaborate dinner. The menu: a salad that includes wild mushrooms and sweet vermouth cheesecake; mari­nated beef tenderloin; and, a hazelnut Godiva chocolate tart with minted raspberry sauce. Cornell should more than recoup the bill. The festivities are kicking off a campaign to raise $4 billion. It's a jaw-dropping sum that exceeds the size of any university's entire endow­ment 20 years ago, and all but about 15 today. To hit the target, Cornell President David Skorton will have to raise more than $1.6 million every day for the next five years. But $4 billion isn't even the biggest campaign announced in higher education this month. Stanford and Columbia just announced campaigns of $4.3 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively. Yale and the University of Virginia recently announced $3 billion campaigns, and 24 universi­ties are officially trying to raise $1 billion or more, according to The Chronicle of Higher Education. The campaigns come at a time when college is more expensive than ever. Just Tuesday, a national report found college price increases again outpacing inflation. Tuition, fees and room and board at Cornell run $43,707 this year, though it promises aid for any student who needs it and will use some of the campaign money for more scholarships. "We have a· lot of wonderful things to do with the money," Skorton said in a telephone interview this week. Of the $4 billion target, he said: "I hope we're going to blow right by that." They probably will. Cornell has already raised about $1 billion. Universities don't announce campaigns until they're confident they'll make it, though sometimes they extend the typical deadline. UCLA stretched a recent cam­paign to a decade to reach $3 billion. Multibillion-dollar cam­paigns have transformed how elite universities raise money. The traditional prodding at homecoming cocktail parties is supplemented by data min­ing and marketing consult­ants. Cornell's fundraising staff numbers 125. Some schools pay top rainmakers $200,000 or more. The goal is luring the big fish. Nobody gets to $4 billion in tens and twenties. Colleges still solicit small donations from young alumni, but that's largely to increase the odds that alumni who strike it rich will already be in a giving habit. 

Adults advised to get shingles vaccine 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -An influential government advisory panel voted Wednesday to recom­mend routine vaccines to pro­tect older adults against shin­gles. 
The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices voted to recommend the vaccine for adults 60 and over. The com­mittee's recommendations usually are accepted by feder­al health officials, and they influence insurance coverage for vaccinations. 
Shingles is a painful, blister­ing skin rash that is most common in people 60 and older. It usually goes away after four weeks, but one in five shingles sufferers devel­ops excruciating long-term nerve pain known as posther­petic neuralgia. Complications also can include scarring and loss of vision or hearing. 
Antiviral medications are only of limited help, and some doctors say they do not pre­vent shingles from progress­ing into postherpetic neural­gia. 
No vaccine was available until May, when the U.S. Food and Drug Administration licensed Zostavax, made by Merck & Co. 
Shingles is caused by the varicella zoster virus, which also causes chickenpox. An estimated 15 percent to 30 percent of people infected with the virus develop shin­gles later in life. 
The virus essentially hiber­nates for decades in nerve cells around the spine. It reactivates in some patients, probably because the body's immune system weakens with age, doctors say. 
The vaccine is a souped-up version of Merck's chickenpox vaccine for children, with a live virus that is 14 times more potent. 
The FDA approval was based largely on a study involving more than 38,000 people, with 19,000 getting the actual vaccine and others who got placebo. People who got the shot developed shin­gles at only half the rate of those who got the fake vac­cine, researchers found. 
Audit • Tax • Transaction Advisory Services 
© 2006 ERNST & YOUNG llP Quality In Everything We Do 

y unow. 
We want you to succeed, and all the signs say GO. That's why we've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. At Ernst &Young, we offer award-winning learning tools and arange of experiences, so that you keep moving ahead-from your very first day. So visit us on campus, or at ey.cornjus/careers. 
FORTUNE$ 
100 BEST 
COMPANIESgs
TO WORK FOR~ 
ilJ ERNST& YOUNG 
Thursday, October 26, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Falllilies vvork harder to finance college fees 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -With the cost of tuition and fees soaring, par­ents face a daunting task in trying to figure out how to finance their children's college educations. 
The College Board, which tracks college pricing trends, reported earlier this week that tuition and fees at four-year public colleges rose more than 6 percent to an average of $5,836 this fall. The cost at pri­vate four-year colleges increased just under 6 percent to an average of $22,218. 
"Those numbers are intimi­dating, but parents have to remember they don't have to pay it all up-front," said Bruce 
D. Harrington, vice president of Boston-based MFS Investment Management. 
The typical family, he said, "pays for college in three dif­ferent ways: one-third out of current income, one-third out of college savings, and one­third out of loans or grants." 
Still, Harrington said, fami­lies will find it easier if they start saving sooner rather than later. 
Among the most popular ways for families to save are the Section 529 plans, which are state-sponsored programs named for a section of the Internal Revenue Code. Money set aside in 529 plans grows tax-deferred, and distributions to pay for a beneficiary's col­lege expenses are exempt from federal income taxes. 
Joseph F. Hurley, president and chief executive of Savingforcollege.com, a college financing information center, pointed out that Congress ear­lier this year voted to extend the tax exempt status of 529 plans indefinitely rather than allowing it to "sunset" in 2010. 
"That uncertainty is eliminat­ed now, making 529 plans more attractive," he said. 
In addition, a change in the tax law has made money invested in custodial accounts under the Uniform Gifts to Minors Act, UGMA, or Uniform Transfers to Minors Act, UTMA, more likely to be taxed at the parents' rate. This again makes the 529 plans a better 
savings alternative, Hurley said. 
Harold Simansky, founder of Educational Investments LLC in Brookline, Mass., said he urges a multigenerational approach to financing college educations. 
"The numbers are just too big for the parents to do it by themselves," he said. "And for grandparents, saving for a grandchild's education and paying for tuition has estate planning and gift tax planning benefits." 
That's because tuition pay­ments don't count against an individual's $12,000 a year gift-tax exclusion. Contributions of up to $12,000 to 529 accounts also qualify, and contributions of between $12,000 and $60,000 can be treated as if they were made over a five-year period for gift­tax purposes. 
Although some families plan on tapping home equity to cover college expenses, Simansky discourages it. 
"If they tap into their homes to pay for education, what are they going to do in retire­ment?" he asks. 
Jon Veenis, executive vice president for San Francisco­based Wells Fargo & Co., said he urges families to "pursue the least-costly money first." 
That means to start by look­ing for "free" money such as scholarship and grants, then looking at government-guaran­teed loans such as the Stafford for students or the PLUS for parents. 
Veenis said families that need additional financing then can look at private loans, such as those issued through the Wells Fargo student loan program, or home equity loans. 
"The choice here depends on several considerations," he said. "A key question is, who is going to be obligated for the debt? Is it going to be the par­ents, the student, or some com­bination? That could drive the decision." 
Harrington of MFS Investment Management, which operates an Oregon­sponsored 529 plan, suggests families can accumulate more if they set up a systemati~ sav­ings plan. 
Rolling executed for Fla. lllurders 
Serial killer took the lives of five University of Florida students in 1990 
Associated Press 
STARKE, Fla. -Danny Harold Rolling, Florida's most notorious serial killer since Ted Bundy, was execut­ed by injection Wednesday for butchering five college students in a ghastly string of slayings that terrorized Gainesville in 1990. 
Rolling, 52, was pro­nounced dead at 6:13 p.m. EDT, more than 16 years after his killing rampage at the start of the University of Florida's fall semester. 
When asked for a last statement, Rolling sang for two minutes what sounded like a hymn with the refrain "none greater than thee, 0 Lord, none greater than thee," witnesses and prison officials said. 
He appeared to continue singing after prison officials turned off the microphone, finally stopping just before he died. 
The bodies of his victims were found over three days in late August, just as the University of Florida's fall semester was beginning. All had been killed with. a hunt­ing knife. Some had been mutilated, sexually assaulted and put in shocking poses. One girl's severed head had been placed on a shelf, her body posed as if seated. 
The killing spree touched off a huge manhunt and plunged the laid-back college town into panic. Students fled and residents armed them­selves. 
Belongings that Rolling left at a campsite in the woods and DNA taken after a later arrest for robbery linked him to the slayings. When he came up for trial in 1994, he shocked the courtroom by pleading guilty. 
"There are some things you just can't run from, this being one of those," Rolling told the judge. 
He later told The Associated Press: "I do deserve to die, but do I want to die? No. I want to live. Life is difficult to give up." 
Dianna Hoyt, who step­daughter was slain, said the execution marked "the final chapter of this book." 

"This man brought this out­come to himself, and the law of the land carried through to show us justice," Hoyt said. 
Outside the prison, death penalty opponents stood in a circle singing "Amazing Grace" after Rolling was pro­nounced dead. 
Other onlookers supported the execution. "They're doing a good thing," said Randy Hicks, 35, a truck driver and former prison guard who occasionally watched over Rolling. "This guy deserves it. It's very overdue." 
Death penalty protesters said the execution only served to provide Rolling additional attention. 
"The state of Florida is giv­ing this psychopathic killer just what he wanted," said Mark Elliott of Clearwater, spokesman for Floridians for Alternatives to the Death Penalty. 
The attention surrounding Rolling's execution reopened old wounds in Gainesville and for the families of the victims. 
The victims' families ran an advertisement Thursday in The Gainesville Sun, thank­ing the community for its support: "We hope you will remember August 1990 and the years that followed with­out any sense of community shame for what has hap­pened here. You turned a blemish into a rose." 
Rolling was calm and coop­erative ahead of the execu­tion, Corrections Department spokesman Robby Cunningham said. He spent several hours with his broth­er Kevin and his brother's pastor, officials said. 
The gathering of people on a barren cow pasture across from the prison was reminis­cent of the crowds that assembled for Bundy's execu­tion on Jan. 24, 1989 in the state's old electric chair.. Bundy was suspected in the deaths and disappearances of 36 women across the coun­try. 
Bundy died in the electric chair in 1989 in the same death chamber. The case was still fresh in the minds of many when Rolling's killings began the following year in roughly the same area as some of Bundy's crimes. 

Study: Obesity adds to gasoline consumption 
Associated Press removing excess baggage, car­The obesity rate among U.S. Engineering Economist, a peer­year, Jacobson said. 
rying around less weight in adults doubled from 1987 to reviewed journal published by The estimates "are probably 
CHICAGO -Want to spend their trunk, or yes, even losing 2003, from about 15 percent to the American Society of pretty reliable," said Larry less at the pump? Lose some weight, they will indeed see a more than 30 percent. Also, the Engineering Education and the Chavis, an economist at the weight. drop in their fuel a v e r a g e Institute of Industrial University of North Carolina in 
That's the implication of a consumption." weight for Engineers. Chapel Hill. "I don't know if it's new study that says Americans Outside experts American men Jacobson, an industrial engi­going to encourage anybody to
'The bottom line is 
are burning nearly 1 billion said that even if was 191 neer, conducted the research go out and lose weight to save more gallons of gasoline each the calculation that our hunger for pounds in with Laura McLay, a doctoral gasoline, but even for individual year than they did in 1960 aren't exact, the food and our hunger 2002 and 164 student in his Champaign­families, it could have an effect because of their expanding study makes sense. pounds for Urbana lab who now works at on their budget."
for oil are not
waistlines. Simply put, more "If you put more women, about Virginia Commonwealth Dr. Jeffrey Koplan, former
independent."
weight in the car means lower weight into your 25 pounds University. CDC director and chairman of gas mileage. car, you're going to heavier than in They estimated that more an Institute of Medicine report 
Using recent gas prices of get fewer miles per Sheldon Jacobson 1960, govern­than 39 million gallons of fuel on obesity, said the fmdings are $2.20 a gallon, that translates gallon," . Emory ment figures are used each year for every almost beside the point. 
University of Illinois 
to about $2.2 billion more spent University health show. additional pound of passenger "The wrong fuel is being
researcher
on gas each year. care analyst The study's weight. focused on," said Koplan, now 
"The bottom line is that our Kenneth Thorpe conclusions The amount of extra fuel con­at Emory University. "If you're hunger for food and our hunger said Wednesday. are based on sumption blamed on weight heavier, the most important fuel for oil are not independent. The same effect those weight gain since 1960 -938 million you use more of is food." There is a relationship between has been seen in airplanes. figures and Americans' 2003 gallons -would fill almost 2 Eating less, driving less and the two," said University of Research from the Centers for driving habits, involving roughly million cars with gas for an choosing more active means of Illinois researcher Sheldon Disease Control and Prevention 223 million cars and light .entire year. However, that is transportation would reduce Jacobson, a study co-author. found that heavy fliers have trucks nationwide. only 0. 7 percent of the total gas consumption, and also help 
"If a person reduces the contributed to higher fuel costs It will appear in the October­amount of fuel consumed by reverse rising obesity rates, he weight in their car, either by for airlines. December issue of The U.S. passenger vehicles each said. 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 14 Thursday, October 26, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
Patriotic doesn't mean blind 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER lvladdie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gotrumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Anronacci 

Mary Kate Malone 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SeEN~ EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR! Jeff Alben 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independenr, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither insrirurion. The Observer reserves rhe righr to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is n;ported as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letrers to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Obst:n't!l' (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday excq>~ duriilg exam and. vacation periods. A subscripriuu ro The-Obs<"rver is $100 f.u om: :academic year; $5S fur one u-mcs~~;r. 
The Observer is published ac POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall &nd <~ddres.s oorrections (0: Notre Dame. 1:-.J 46S56--0779 ·The Ob.erver Periodkal postage paid at Nom: Dame P.O. Box779 and addi1ional mailing offices. 024 Sou(h Dining HaU 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0n9 
The Ohscf\.'Cr is d member ofthe Associated Press. A11 n:p.rodm:tion rights are reserved. 
Last week, CNN aired video footage from Baghdad showing insurgent snipers taking aim at American soldiers. The network obtained the tape from the Islamic Army of Iraq, through interme­diaries. During the piece, CNN's Baghdad correspon­dent Michael Ware was careful to note that the video (enti­tled "Latest Sniper Operations in Baghdad") acts as a propaganda piece. He analyzed, scruti­niz!~d and related the video to real events taking place in Iraq. 
Despite these diselaimers, many peo­ple immediately denounced the network for airing the video. They leveled numerous charges, including that the video is inappropriate for soldiers' fami­lies, that it is unsuitable for young view­ers and even that it spuriously sanitizes the horrific violence because the video quickly fades to black after each shot to refrain from showing the aetual moment of impact. All of these accusations carry some merit and, frankly, they show that at least part of the American public pays attention to the news. 
Other critics went further with their indictments. "Does CNN want America to win this thing?" asked Republican House Representative Duncan Hunter from California on Monday. He called for the removal of embedded CNN jour­nalists and claimed that in past wars, the press was more pro-American. 
"The average American Marine or sol­dier," Hunter continues, "has concluded after seeing that film that CNN is not on their side." Mr. Hunter did not reveal his statistical source for deducing the psy­chological reaction of the average American soldier. He also chose not to reveal bow many soldiers responded to 

James Dechant 
Foregone Conclusion 
his scientific poll with gratitude that somebody was telling their brutal story to an insulated nation. Thankfully, we do not need to hear from any of those soldiers themselves, beeause wn have Mr. Huntnr to speak on tlu~ir behalf. 
Let's think about this a minutn, Mr. llunter; you are suggesting that CNN journalists want American men and women to be killed by terrorists. You are saying that bncause they are not putting a positive spin on the bleak­and I do mean bleak-situation in Iraq, they must consequently be in a lnague with intnrnationally vilified criminals. 
While I cautiously agme with CNN's decision to air the video, I will admit this is !:ertainly a thorny issue, and I can understand people's qualms. The video is not pretty. It is not encouraging. The decision to air the video and its presen­tation wnre not taken lightly, however. CNN even wamed viewers befornhand that the video would not be suitable for childnm. They knew it would be a volatile piece, and offended responses arn aec!~ptable. But to suggest, as Mr. II unter does, that the network supports terrorism -that they do not wish for America to "win this thing" -is, in a word, stupid. 
llunter found support from Brian Bilbray, also a Hepresentative from California. Bilbray called the feature a "terrorist snufi' film." Hick Moore, one of many online bloggers that spoke out against the video footage, brashly titled a post "CNN Joins Insurgent PH Campaign." There were other attacks. 
All these detractors want to lump in CNN with the terrorist forces, because that would be the easy thing to do. It is, after all, the prevailing ideology of the time: with us or against us. As the midterm elections loom, many candi­dates are trying to bolster support by promoting this false dichotomy, claiming that war critics are nothing more than seditious opponents of national security. In similar fashion, Congressman Hunter implies that if you do not support our 
methods, you must therefore be against 
our goal, and in fact against us. If CNN 
has the audacity to show grim footage, 
Hunter thinks, they must hate America 
and hate freedom. 
What the Hepresentative and his ilk fail to realize is that one can support the AmtJrican mission and still be cr:itical of its execution. This CNN feature reported the facts and stopped short of criticism. These facts, like it or not, will not enthuse anyone. If you want a patriotic, nag-waving expose detailing all the progress America is making in Iraq, stop holding your breath. You could lind encouraging stories about the struggle and perseverance of our men and women serving there. or about the Iraqi pe,Jple's own struggle; but as far as the overall tactical military campaign goes, you would have to look long and hard to lind positive material. Television net­works cannot report on the good news from Iraq because there is precious lit­tle good news to report. At the time of writing, 91 American soldiers have been killed in Iraq this month alone, many of them by sniper attacks. That number, like the video, takes no sides: it is a cold fact. The American media should not combat terrorist propaganda with its own propaganda. 
Next time, Mr. Hunter and associates, save your terror accusations for the folks who really deserve them. Look on this video as a chilling reminder of the gravity of the Iraq situation, and pray that it will awaken a few more people to the importance of our struggle there. Spend your time fighting the real enemy. 
James Dechant is a junior English and theology major. Questions, comments and rude remarks can be sent to jdechant@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Kelly Meehan Jay Fitzpatrick Maureen Mullen Dan Murphy Liz Harter Amy Dixon Are you voting in the Viewpoint Scene upcoming midterm election? Alyssa Erin McGinn Brauweiler 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Graphics Madeline Nies at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Submit aLetter "They that can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary safety deserve neither liberty nor safety,"to the Editor at Benjamin Franklin statesman
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, October 26, 2006 page 15 
Notre Dame Catholicism as a force for change 
Editor's Note: This is the third of three columns calling for greater attention to the global health crisis as discussed in the academic forum earlier this semester. 
In light of the recent 
events on campus involv-Jillian Mueller ing the President's Forum on Global Health 
Guest 
Columnist
and the latest issue of 
Notre Dame Magazine, which explores our "moral obligation to those in need," I have been reflecting on Catholicism and how it is expressed at Notre Dame. I can't help but think there is a disparity between the teachings of Jesus concerning feeding the hungry, visiting the sick and sheltering the homeless and the forms that our Catholic faith takes on a daily basis here on campus and through­out our lives. 
At the forum, a panel addressed global health problems and the systems of pover­ty that underlie them. One of the panelists, Dr. Paul Farmer, addressed the Notre Dame community not just as a group of students and academics, but as fellow Catholics. Farmer also contributed an arti­cle to the latest issue of Notre Dame Magazine entitled "If We Fail to Act." If you read his biography, you know that Farmer was raised Catholic but withdrew from his faith until he encountered the people and politics of Haiti shortly after completing his undergraduate education. In Haiti, Catholicism came alive for him in the doctrine of liberation theology. Developed by Latin American theologians and embraced by many Latin American bishops and other conscientious Catholics and non-Catholics around the world, liber­ation theology speaks out against institu­tionalized poverty, promotes the preferen­tial option for the poor inherent in the teachings of Jesus and calls for activism to fight for social justice and human rights. In witnessing the faith of Haitians and the systemic injustices that impoverish this nation, Farmer now lives and breaths his mission to put Jesus' message into action, helping the poor and suffering throughout the world. 
I experienced a similar transformation this past spring, though on a much smaller scale. I was raised Catholic in a family that dutifully attended Mass each week, and though I completed 17 years of Catholic education, I strayed from my religion dur­ing high school and college. By my senior year of college at Saint Louis University, I was not what I would term religious. But it took only one week in El Salvador during that senior year to rediscover Catholicism through liberation theology as Farmer did. 
I was awed by the way the Salvadorans' faith was thoroughly ingrained into all aspects of their lives. It was through that faith and the proliferation of liberation theology by Archbishop Oscar Romero and other Jesuit priests, many of whom were martyred and massacred, that inspired Salvadorans to fight for human rights dur­ing the country's civil war in the 1980s. The struggle continues today, still support­ed by the liberation theology of the Jesuit community at the University of Central America in San Salvador and its communi­ty outreach efforts. After just one week in the country, I thought, this is it. I had found the core of the Catholic faith in the vibrant lives and beliefs of these resilient people. 
My trip to El Salvador opened my eyes to what being a Catholic can truly mean. One of Farmer's remarks sums up my experi­ence well: "Wow, this isn't the Catholicism I remember!" Being a Catholic should go beyond simply following a set of guide­lines, attending Mass and supporting char­ity work from a distance as items on life's checklist. Being a Catholic should mean embracing Jesus' message, standing in solidarity with the poor and fighting to remove the institutionalized injustices that keep them impoverished and without basic human rights. For Farmer, it means living a life dedicated to the poor, public health problems and social injustice. For me, it means participating in Notre Dame's GLOBES Ph.D. program where we seek to understand the connections between the environment, social systems and global health and to develop the tools needed to address these problems at a global scale. 
What does it mean for you? 
The Notre Dame community is over­whelmingly Catholic and has a huge set of resources at its disposal, including out­standing students and faculty. Our univer­sity already has international programs and projects with the Center for Social Concerns, and 10 percent of each graduat­ing class enters into full-time service pro­grams. Many undergraduates participate in service activities as well. While this is certainly admirable and already above the curve compared to most universities, we can do better. Only 20 percent of those service programs are international, and, on average, the Notre Dame student spends just over 28 hours per year doing service. What could we accomplish if we invested as much interest, money and energy in poverty issues and developing countries as we do in football? What could we learn and be exposed to if there was as much desire to study in Latin America as there is for studying in Ireland? Our uni­versity has a mission that seeks to trans­late learning and scholarship into service for justice. It's time to step up and fully embody that mission by placing our talents and assets at the service of the poor. 
lillian Mueller is a biology graduate stu­dent participating in the new Global Linkages ofBiology, the Environment. and Society (GLOBES) program. She can be contacted at jmuelle4@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Are you even reading this? 
Are you between the ages of 18 and 22? Have you begun to read this column? If so, you might be the only undergradu­ate doing so. This may make you want to: a) stop here; who Kate Barrett wants to be the only one Faithpoint doing any­thing? or b) forge ahead; you've always thought of yourself as a cutting-edge type. 
The "Faithpoint" column runs on the Viewpoint page of The Observer every Thursday, writ­ten from Campus Ministry alter­nately by Father Dick Warner, our director, or me. It's a chance to write and think about issues facing the campus com­munity from the perspective of our Christian faith. 
r'have found that in the days following the appearance of a column, I receive some very lovely comments from readers (I am typically not a controversial person -although you could ask my husband about my recent run-in with the cell phone guy when we updated our plan-so I don't get a lot of heated, angry responses to these columns). 
I once had a "subway alum" who reads The Observer on-line send me an e-mail from his office at NASA in Houston. Students' mothers who get the paper at home write to me. Sometimes people I pass on the quad will mention that they liked an article they read recently; other parents who work at Notre Dame will make kind comments as we pick up our kids from school at St. Joe grade school downtown. Even a few of my husband's colleagues in the Law School have sent encouraging e-mails my way. 
Why do I mention this? If you've read this far (and again, if you're a freshman, sopho­more, junior or senior at this fine university, you may be the only one who has read this far) I will let you in on my secret: I don't think undergrads ever read the "Faithpoint" column. Father Warner disagrees with me, but I say, at least not when I write it. We have a little joke in our house: an informal run­ning accumulation of months gone by since I started writing the column-without any tan­gible evidence that one single undergrad has made it beyond the headline. 
Please don't get me wrong; I'm not fishing for compliments or praise. Every day my husband and my kids tell me they love me, so I'm good. It's not that I need to hear whether you (the hypothetical "you," if you're still hanging in there) liked it or not; my concern is simply this: I'd like to write about what you'd like to read. Actually, cancel that; I'd like to write what you need to read. What's going on with you that you would like another faith perspective about? What topics would help you as you grow and explore your faith? What do you pray about? What questions do you have about Catholicism in particular or Christianity in general? How are you-or are you not-con­necting the way you live each day to what our faith teaches us? What topics would spark a worthwhile conversation among your friends? 
I'm not trying to abandon my new cyber-friends, most of whom I've never met, who have sent me often very moving e­mails after a column, or the assorted faculty members or friends (or the one grad student I heard from once) who out of the goodness of their hearts read what I write and take a minute to tell me so. I don't mind just sending these reflec­tions off onto Notre Dame's little corner of the information super­highway every other week by Wednesday noon, but it does sometimes seem a bit like talk­ing to myself. I walk across the quad from the parking lot by Lyons over to Co-Mo in the mornings and watch many of you tromping off to your 8 a.m. classes and wonder, what can I write that will touch your hearts? I may be hopelessly out of touch; after all, I was a stu­dent here before you all were even born, but I'm a quick learner. 
So. My e-mail address is con­veniently located right here after the next -and last -sen­tence. 
I'd love to hear from you. 
Kate Barrett is the director of resources and special projects in the Office of Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@n d. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
U-WIRE 
Voting an important right exercise it 
Judging from the large number of political and socially conscious groups on pied -clubs, intramural athletics, classes. campus, it's easy to see college students care about what goes on in the world. However, college is not a bubble. It is a time to explore new options and get 
An article in Tuesday's USA Today said millennials -individuals in their involved in organizations that matter to the individual. mid-20s or younger-"are civic-minded and socially conscious as individuals, We are fortunate to live in a country where our vote matters, regardless of consumers and employees." Staff Editorial what students might think. At least in local elections, one vote is all it takes to 
Education, poverty, human rights, equal rights, AIDS and ensure a victory for one candidate over another. hunger were listed as some of the our top-10 most important Kansas State Voting is a right for which we should all be grateful. issues. University 
Yet, we are also the most apathetic voters. Kansas State This editorial originally appeared in the Oct. 25 edition ofthe Kansas State 
Perhaps one of the biggest reasons millennials do not vote Collegian Collegian. the daily publication at Kansas State University. is because we do not care. It's easy to be cut off from the The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not world in college because there are so many other things to keep students occu-necessarily those of The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 16 
Thursday, October 26, 2006 
By LAURA MILLER 
Scene Writer 
Faith and films -those are the words of choice as the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts hosts the Films and Faith Weekend. Put on by the theology and film, television, and theatre departments as a College of Arts and Letters "Decade of the Arts" signature event, the series will show films from various countries this Friday through Sunday night. The weekend will open with a reception and keynote address in the Browning Cinema lobby at 6 p.m. Friday. 
As a series, the films provide a glimpse of spirituality across differ­ent temporal dimensions. The theme for this weekend is "Faces of the Saint." In keeping with this theme, the grouping of films seeks to demonstrate a varied depiction of spiritual life. 
Each of the six featured films focuses on saintly individuals and actual saints to explore the ways spiritual life has been portrayed in dramatically different ways by French, German, Italian and American directors over the past five decades. Most of the films explore the lives of religious clergy, but "Household Saints" explores spiritual aspects of family life. 
It is ambitious to expect any stu­dent to attend the entire film series, but these films definitely have great potential. If nothing else, students should take advantage of the chance to see a few noted foreign flicks. The program also helps to put each movie in context with opening remarks, as well as question-and­answer sessions after each showing. 
Since Notre Dame is one of the pre­mier religious institutions in the country, the series in Films and Faith is unique to the status of the univer­sity. Although mainstream movies generally do not incorporate many religious themes, this series high­lights the films whose primary aim is on religious discussion. 
+"Diary of a Country Priest" (1951), Friday, 7 p.m. 
This film is probably one of the most familiar names around campus, due to the fact that it once was a fairly popular novel. The film, direct­ed by Robert Bresson, is in French of the series that focuses on family life, rather than life in a religious vocation. This film, directed by Nancy Savoca, tells the story of an Italian-American family in the years after World War II. As the daughter in the story ages, she develops an increasing level of religious fanaticism. 
This film explores ideas about faith in the family con­text as well as a discussion of Italian-American life and reli­gious ideals. This is the only film of the series that is filmed in English, so it pro­vides a good option for those who dislike films with subti­tles. 
+"Therese" (1986), 
Saturday, 10 p.m. and 
Sunday, 7 p.m. 
This film, directed by Alain 
"Into Great Silence" is the first film to show the life inside of the Grande Cavalier, tells the story of the 
Chartreuse, the mother house of the legendary Carthusian Order in the French Alps. life of St. Therese de Lisiux. 
with English subtitles. This film tells will be sent back to Dachau. This the story of the life of a small-town movie is notable because of its rela­priest and his daily tively fresh struggles. The approach to the 
novel, written by Films and Faith Weekend: Holocaust author George that is, how
Faces of the Saint 

Bernanos, is also Christians part of a lecture approached (or series, "Shining in When: Friday-Sunday did not 
Obscurity: Where: Browning Cinema, DeBartolo approach) the Rediscovering Four Performing Arts Center moral issues Catholic Authors" Cost: $6 general public, $5 faculty/staff, surrounding it. that will take place $4 seniors and $3 students 
during the next several weeks on campus. The novel can be purchased at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, and the lecture will take place on Nov. 7 at 7 p.m. in 155 DeBartolo. 
+"The Ninth Day" (2005), Friday, 10 p.m. 
"The Ninth Day" is one of the more recently made films to be shown this weekend. Directed by Volker Schlondorff, it tells the story of a priest from Luxembourg who is sent to the Dachau concentration camp during the Holocaust. He is released on the condition that he convince the Bishop to sign an agreement with Nazi Germany and is told that if he fails to do this within nine days, he 
+"The Flowers of St. Francis" (1950), Saturday, 3 p.m. 
This film is one of the most unique of the series -rather than a woven narrative, it consists of short seg­ments about the life and teachings of St. Francis of Assisi. It is directed by Roberto Rossellini, in Italian with English subtitles. Cast with monks from the Nocera lnferiore Monastery, this film promises to be authentic in appearance and meaning. It is also an extremely brief film -just over an hour -an easy thing to squeeze in if you're not watching the football game. 
+"Household Saints" (1993), Saturday, 7 p.m. 
"Household Saints" is the only film 
Unlike "The Flowers of St. 
Francis," "Therese" is in nar­rative form. It attempts to adhere to a historically accurate representa­tion of St. Therese through the use of depictions from Therese's journals. Because the life of St. Therese is so compelling -she died from tubercu­losis while still young -little is done to sensationalize the film. Rather, Cavalier simplifies his style in order to allow the story to speak for itself. The film is in French with English subtitles. 
+"Into Great Silence" (2005), Sunday, 3 p.m. 
Director Philip Groening picks up on a growing trend of artistic film.ing in "Into Great Silence." As its title indicates, this film has no spoken dialogue. The story traces the lives of a group of monks in the French alps. The lives of these monks are extraordinary in their silence -only interrupted by prayer and song. There are English subtitles, as the monks pray and sing in French and Latin. While this film has no narra­tive story, it is designed to provoke spiritual inspiration through watch­ing the monks go through their daily routine. 
Contact Laura Miller at lmiller8@nd.edu 







THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, October 26, 2006 
page 17 


The court of the king of Naples is tossed and turned about in a tempest created by Ariel while Prospera's daughter Miranda (Chelsea Moore) looks on from a rock on the island. 
Prospera (Jeff Eyerman) contemplates how to further his plans while discussing what to do with the new denizens of his island with his etheral servant spirit Ariel. 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 
William Shakespeare once wrote, "We are such stuff as dreams are made on." Those dreams guide The Not So Royal Shakespeare Company (NSR) throughout its production of "The Tempest." 
"The Tempest" follows Prospera (Jeff Eyerman) and his daughter Miranda (Chelsea Moore) as he magically causes a shipwreck to the vessel carrying members of the royal Italian family. 
Antonio (Patrick Tighe) and Alonso (Stephan Iwanski), two of those shipwrecked, wronged Prospera years ago and banished him to his current home on an unnamed island, which leads him to seek revenge by causing the shipwreck. 
Other characters include Ferdinand (Adam Bonosky). who falls in love with Miranda; Caliban (Devin Preston), Prospera's ser­vant; Stephana (Marty Schroeder, an Observer Assistant Scene Editor) and Trinculo (Andre Valdivia), who decides to kill Prospera and take over the island; and Ariel, Prospera's servant fairy. 
Directed by senior Krysta Dennis, the NSR version of "The Tempest" focuses on the performance aspect of the Bard's text. 
"We try to play with Shakespeare and have fun with Shakespeare and not let it be such an academic thing," Dennis said. 
She emphasizes that the Bard is meant to be seen and heard, as opposed to analyzed as a text, not­ing that the original intent of his plays was to entertain. 
"I've always liked 'The Tempest,' which is Shakespeare's last play," Dennis said. "It's got all kinds of elements in it, like political unrest, mystical aspects and all kinds of great characters." 
Previous NSR productions were notable for their minimalism, but Dennis said "The Tempest" required a more lavish presenta­tion, which is certainly visible throughout. 
The lighting (by Ryan Retartha). costuming (by Mary Levy and Ashley Ceniceros) and set design (by Retartha and Samantha Towles) are all impressive and demonstrate just how much effort went into the show. 
Eyerman stresses that the NSR production emphasizes both the aspects of spectacle and story. The centerpieces of the spectacle are two dances, performed by the Ariels. 
In Shakespeare's text, Ariel is a single charac­ter, but the 
NSR version music and specta­
11 The Tempest'' 
utilizes six cle.
Not So Royal Shakespeare Company 
actresses to As fantastic and play the role memorable as
When: Today through Saturday, 7:30 
-Lisa Floran, these sequences
p.m.

Meghan are, they don't
Where: Washington Hall 
Hartmann, necessarily
Cost: $7 general, $5 students
Kathleen detract from the
Tickets can be purchased at the door or 
Hession, characters and
at the LaFortune Box Office
Elizabeth Kuhl, Mary Levy and Danielle Truskowski. 

"Often when you do 'The Tempest,' you use some kind of concept involving the fairy Ariel," Dennis said. "I decided I wanted to have a whole team of spirits. The sequences involving the dance never made sense to me in the text, but I made it make sense using the dances." 
Those dances, choreographed by 

I 

Natalie Conneely, are inspired by Kathakali, a classical dance style of Kerala, in southern India. 
Conneely explains that in the dances, each dancer is given a mythological god to embody and dance through. 
The accompanying soundtrack is 
taken from Bollywood, an Indian cinema style that often emphasizes 
storyline, espe­
cially as embod­
ied by the actors. 
"There's not a bad actor in the cast," Eyerman said. "Any one of these actors is strong enough that the entire show could be about them." 
Dennis also noted that the play involves students from every class year. Eyerman himself is a second year law student, and both he and Dennis have been impressed with the skill -if not experience -of 
JEFF ALBERT/Observer Graphic 

the young cast members. 
"They've come a long way and have rehearsed hard," Dennis said. 
The acting is solid throughout, led by Eyerman, Bonosky and Moore. Schroeder, Valdivia and Preston provide great comic relief, while the extra rehearsal time of the Ariels is evident in their outstand­ing performaces. 
The cast is rounded out by Ben Drda, Kevin McCarthy, Timothy Gotcher, Brian Dolinar, Robert DeBroeck, Kevin Stein, Jennifer Betancourt and Alyse Kinchen. 
"The Tempest" is one of Shakespeare's more seg­mented plays, which means that individual storylines are seemingly independent of the rest until the dis­parate threads rejoin at the end of the play. 
"Seeing it come together 
has been amazing," Eyerman said. "'The Tempest' was­n't one of my favorite Shakespeare shows, but this production has given me new appreciation for it." 
Both Eyerman and Dennis hope the show appeals to the larger Notre Dame community. While Dennis said the relevance of study­ing Shakespeare is still important, she also wants the show to enter­tain. 
"The opportunity to see Shakespeare, at any level, is essen­tial," Eyerman said. 
The NSR production of "The Tempest" has obviously been a labor of love that has accomplished Dennis' far-reaching goals. As a fast-paced and lavishly produced version of Shakespeare's text, it succeeds while still allowing the story and acting to impressively shine through. 
"The Tempest" will be shown in Washington Hall throughout the weekend, starting tonight. 
As a production created com­pletely by Notre Dame students, it is a very strong interpretation of "The Tempest," bringing to life a brave new world. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
I 

page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 26, 2006 
NHL 

Babchuk's goal lifts 'Canes to overtime win 
Belfour makes 35 saves in 4-2 win over New York; Detroit snaps three-game losing streak against Sharks at home 
Associated Press Ilya Kovalchuk, who extend­"That's the best we've ed his goal-scoring streak to played 5-on-5 all season," 
RALEIGH, N.C. -Anton three games, tied the game at Florida coach Jacques Martin Babchuk scored 1:11 into 4-all when he deflected a shot said. "Eddie was solid. He overtime to help the Carolina in the slot from Vitaly showed a lot of experience Hurricanes win their first Vishnevski with 11:39 left. and composure." game at home, beating Kovalchuk has scored five Juraj Kolnik and Gregory Southeast Division leader goals in the last three games. Campbell also scored for Atlanta 5-4 on Wednesday Walker hit the post from Florida. night. point-blank range with 3 min­"It feels good to play a full 
Babchuk took a cross-ice utes left, missing a chance to 60 minutes," Kolnik said. pass from Justin Williams and give Carolina the lead. "That's how you win." beat Atlanta goalkeeper Kari Atlanta's Marian Hossa took New York, idle since winning Lehtonen with a nifty back­a hooking penalty with just a shootout in Toronto on hand shot for his first goal of over 2 minutes left in regula­Saturday night, lost for the the season. tion but Carolina, which was fifth time in its last seven 
Two of Atlanta's three losses 1-for-6 on the power play, was games to fall to 4-5-0. have come against Carolina, not able to convert. "I still don't like the way we including its last loss on Oct. Atlanta was 0-of-4 on the played," Rangers star Jaromir 
13. Since then Atlanta had power play. Ward finished Jagr said. "We're uptight. won four straight. with 32 saves against 36 We're not loose, for what ever 
The Hurricanes fell behind shots, while Lehtenin stopped reason. I don't know why. 1-0 as Eric Boulton scored 33 of 38 shots. "Notes: Maybe we concentrate to 
3:14 into the game when he Carolina RW Scott Walker much on the defense, we don't netted a tip-in. Carolina ral­reached 300 career points do anything else. It wasn't a lied and scored the next three with a goal and an assist. fun game to play. goals to take a 3-1 lead at the Atlanta LW Kovalchuk has "We didn't cycle the puck end of the first period as Eric scored a point in five straight much. We didn't have many Staal, Scott Walker and games. chances. We had a lot of shots Andrew Hutchinson scored. but not many chances. We just 
Atlanta tied the game in the Florida 4, New York Rangers have to play looser and have second period, as the 2 fun. We're just concentrating Thrashers took 22 shots. Ed Belfour flashed the form on not making a mistake but 
Jon Simm stole a pass from that has long made him one of we have to play hockey. The Carolina's Brett Hedican at the the NI-IL's top goalies and Jozef one good thing is that it's early Hurricanes' blue line and Stumpe! came up big offen­in the season and we've got scored at 11:31. sively to lead the Florida time to change it." timing is better and I'm seeing with 37 seconds left and a 
Then at 17:21, Scott Panthers to their first road The 41-year-old Belfour, 2-the puck much better. We defi­backhander by Milan Michalek Mellanby scored on a tip-in victory of the season. 2-0 in his first season with nitely needed this win." from in close with 30.2 sec­from the right post as the puck Belfour stopped 35 shots and Florida, allowed only Petr Stumpe! opened the scoring onds left. bounced over Cam Ward's Stumpe! scored two goals to Prucha's power-play score on a power play in the first Bernier scored the lone goal pads. help the Panthers beat the early in the second period and period and sealed the victory for San Jose (7-3-0). 
Ryan Bayda's first goal of New York Rangers on Martin Straka's goal off an with 3:29 remaining with his Lang broke a 1-1 tie with the season didn't stand up for Wednesday night. Coming off uncontested close-range shot fifth goal of the season. 8:58 remaining by tipping in a the Hurricanes, whose 4-3 consecutive losses to Atlanta, with 6:50 left in the third. "It's huge," Stumpe! said. shot from the point by lead in the third period was Florida improved to 1-4-1 on ''I'm starting to get in my "We needed a good feeling in Schneider for his third goal of short-lived. the road and 5-5-1 overall. groove," Belfour said. "My the locker room about playing the season. 
on the road." Schneider's power-play goal 
Kolnik gave the Panthers a 38 seconds into the third peri­3-1 lead at 6:32 of the third od tied the game at 1. period after stealing defense­Schneider beat Evgeni man Michal Rozsival's back­Nabokov, who was being hand pass attempt along the screened by Tomas boards. Kolnik broke in alone Holmstrom, with a one-time on Henrik Lundqvist, faked slap shot from the top of the him out of position and easily right circle. forehanded the puck into the Nabokov finished with 21 empty net for his fourth goal saves. of the season. The Red Wings had a 39-23 
shots advantage for the game Detroit 2, San Jose 1 and despite being outshot 14­
Robert Lang's third-period 4, San Jose led 1-0 after one goal broke a tie and lifted the period. Detroit Red Wings to a win The Sharks took advantage over the San Jose Sharks on of Johan Franzen's interfer­Wednesday night. ence penalty late in the first 
Detroit (4-4-1), which ended period with Bernier's power­a three-game losing streak, play goal with 2:50 left in the also got a goal and an assist opening period. He beat Hasek from Mathieu Schneider. with a one-timer from the bot­Dominik Hasek made 22 tom of the left circle off a pass saves, including a tip attempt from Milan Michalek. It was and rebound by Steve Bernier Bernier's third goal. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE 
3-4 bdrm home, 1.5 BA, 2 mi. N of NO. 2-stall garage. 4 Jots. $101,000.52420 Forestbrook. Call Terry 574-289-5630 or Ron 277­4122. 
FoR RENT 
BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam­pus homes & weekend rentals. Bluegoldrentals.com 
HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2·6 Bedrooms www.NDstudentrentals.com 

Rooms for rent for football week­ends. Close to campus. Call574· 243-0658. 
Home for Football weekends. 3 BR,Full Bsement, Walking distance to NO. 631-766-7637. 
2 rooms in private home w/separate entrance for football weekends. Shared bath. Close to NO. 57 4-259-8603. 
House Available for 07-08 Year. Close to Campus. Just Renovated to Brand New Condition. Open to groups of 9-11 Students. Contact MacSwain@ gmail.com 
45 minutes from Notre Dame Stadium. $125.00/night. Year round cabins sleep six. Call Lumberjack Resort 269-646·2181. 
Furnished home for responsible family. Walk to NO. Dec.-May. Cell 561-596-0194. 
TICKETS 

Travel with STS to this years top 1 0 Spring Break destinations! Best deals guaranteed! Highest rep com­missions. Visit www.ststravel.com or call 1-800-648-4849. Great group dis­counts. 
WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251­1570 
WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726. 
FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TICK­ETS. BEST PRICES. 57 4-232-2378. 
Travel with STS to this years top 10 Spring Break destinations! Best deals guaranteed! Highest rep com­missions. Visit www.ststravel.com or call1-800-648-4849. Great group discounts. 
FOR SALE: NO TICKETS. 232­0964 
PERSONAL 

Spring Break 2007 Celebration. 20th Anniversary w/Sun Splash Tours. Free trip on every 12 before Nov. 1. Free Meals & Parties, Hottest Deals Ever. Group Discounts on 6 or more. Hottest Spring Break Destinations. 1800­426-771 0.www.sunsplashtours.com 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
Spring Break 2007 Celebration 20th Anniversary w/Sun Splash Tours Free trip on every 12 before Nov. 1. Free Meals & Parties, Hottest Deals Ever. Group Discounts on 6+. Hottest Spring Break Destinations. 1-800-426-7710. www.sunsplashtours.com 
Spring Break 2007 Celebration 20th Anniversary w/Sun Splash Tours Free trip on every 12 before Nov. 1. Free Meals & Parties, Hottest Deals Ever. Group Discounts on 6+. Hottest Spring Break Destinations. 1-800­426-7710. www.sunsplashtours.com 

.---------------------------------­
OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, October 26, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 19 

NHL Standings 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record points PP% Pitlsburgh 5-3·0 10 25.0 New Jersey 4-4-1 9 15.2 NY Rangers 4-4-o 8 19.1 NY Islanders 3-3·2 8 19.6 Philadelphia 1·6·1 3 7.3 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record points PP% 
Buffalo 9·0·0 18 21.8 Toronto 4-3·3 11 15.6 Montreal 4·2·2 10 24.4 Ottawa 4·4·0 8 5.4 Boston 2-4·1 5 10.8 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record points PP% 
Atlanta 7-1·1 15 24.5 Florida 4·5·1 9 24.5 Carolina 3-4·2 8 16.4 Tampa Bay 4·4·0 8 8.7 Washington 2-2-3 7 15.9 
Western Conference, Central Division 
ppo,;,
team record points 
Nashville 4·3·1 9 15.6 Chicago 4·4·0 8 21.3 St. Louis 3·3-2 8 15.9 Detroit 3-4·1 7 8.7 Columbus 2·4·1 5 18.9 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record points PP% Minnesota 7-1·0 14 22;2 Edmonton 6·2·0 12 15.1 Vancouver 5-4·1 11 11.9 Colorado 4-3·2 10 19.6 Calgary 3-4·1 7 fi.tl 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record points PP% 
Dallas 8+0 16 14.5 San Jose H·D 14 25.4 Anaheim 6·0·2 14 24.4 Los Angeles 3·5·2 8 11.8 Phoenix 2·8·0 4 10.7 
NCAA Men's Cross Country Top15 
team points 
1 Wisconsin 448 2 Colorado 427 3 lona 422 4 UTEP 391 5 Stanford 390 6 Arkansas 387 7 Oregon 364 8 Florida State 339 9 NC State 321 10 Florida 295 11 Portland 270 12 NOTRE DAME '267 13 Santa Barbara 266 14 Minnesota 237 15 Alabama 228 
around the dial 
MLB 
WORLD SERIES Detroit at St. Louis 8 p.m., FOX 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Clemson at Virginia Tech 8 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 

IRVING, Texas -Tony Ramo is now the first-string quarterback for the Dallas Cowboys, and will make his first career start Sunday night at Carolina. 
Coach Bill Parcells said Wednesday that Romo, who replaced 14-year veteran Drew Bledsoe in the second half of Monday night's 36­22 loss to the New York Giants, will start. 
"Any time you do some­thing like this, it's not with­out a lot of consideration," Parcells said. "I've been thinking about it for some time.... Hopefully, maybe as the team is comprised right now, he might be able to do a couple of things that assist us." 
Neither Bledsoe nor Romo appeared in the Cowboys locker room Wednesday. The team said Bledsoe would talk later in the day. 
Ramo, a fourth-year pro who had never thrown a pass in a game until this season, will be the ninth different starting quarter­back for the Cowboys {3-3) since Hall of Farner Troy Aikman retired after the 2001 season. 
Bledsoe joined Parcells in Dallas last year, reuniting with the coach who made him the No. 1 pick in 1993 for the New England Patriots. 
His last pass Monday 
night was an interception at 
the goal line just before 
halftime when the Cowboys 
had a chance to take the 
lead. Bledsoe had already 
been sacked four times, 
once for a safety. 
Parcells rarely changes 

quarterbacks midseason, often showing loyalty to vet­erans. Two years ago, Parcells stuck with 41-year­. old Vmny Testaverde during a 6-10 season. Like Bledsoe, Testaverde had also played with Parcells 
earlier in his career. 
But Bledsoe apparently 
made too many costly mis­
takes for Parcells. His last 
interception came in a 
game that could have given the Cowboys first place in the NFC East. 

In Dallas' three victories, Bledsoe had six touchdown passes and one intercep­tion. But those have all been against teams with losing records. Against playoff contenders Jacksonville, Philadelphia and the Giants, he has one TD and seven INTs. 
Parcells told Bledsoe about his demotion Wednesday morning. 
"lie was emotionally under control. I'm sure he wasn't happy to hear the 
..

news," Parcells said. "I just told him we're going to make this change right now, and that he needed to stay around ready." 
IN BRIEF 

Raiders' WR Porter g_ames beforethe suspension. only two cars in each of the ses­reinstated after suspension ChanS!es. made by Formula sions. 
ALAMEDA, Calif. -Jerry Porter One Racmg Foot injury causes 
returned to the Oakland Raiders on SAO PAULO, Brazil -Formula Davydenko to withdraw Wednesday after the NFL Players One will look a lot different next ST. PETERSBURG, Hussia-Top­Association dropped its appeal of season. seeded Nikolay Davydenko retired 
the receiver's four-game suspension Seven-time champion Michael with a foot injury while leading 6-2, and the team reduced the punish­Schumacher is out -retired, and 3-3 Wednesday against Weslie ment to two games. several other top drivers are switch­Moodie at the St. Petersburg Open. 
The Raiders announced the settle­ing seats. I felt some pain in my right foot at ment Wednesday and said coach Art Fernando Alonso, who clinched his 4-2 in the first set," Davydenko said. Shell would address it later in the second consecutive title in the sea­"In the second set, I realized that I day. The team did not know if Porter son-ending Brazilian Grand Prix, vould not receive -any shot into a would report to the team will end his successful partnership corner was a problem for me." Wednesday. Phone messages left with Renault to join McLaren. He's Davydenko called a trainer for with the NFLPA and Porter's agent taking the seat of Kimi Raikkonen, treatment at 2-3 in the second set. were not immediately returned. who will be move to Ferrari to Davydenko, who leads a group of 
Porter was suspended Oct. 15 for replace Schumacher. players seeking the last four spots in insubordination a day after being In the first Formula One season the season-ending Masters cu·p in 
kicked out of practice by Shell. Shell without Schumacher in 16 years, Shanghai, will need to reach quar­and Porter clashed almost immedi­there will be plenty of new rules terfinals at Paris next week to ately after the coach was hired in from practice sessions to tires. advance. 
February over Porter's offseason The two free practice sessions on Fourth-seeded Tommy Haas workout plans. Porter made public a Fridays of each race weekend will defeated Nenad Zimonjic of Serbia trade demand at the start of training be extended from 60 to 90 minutes, 6-2, 6-7 (6). 6-2 after saving two camp and was inactive for the four and teams will be allowed to use break points in the second set. 


page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, October 26, 2006 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Penn State's Posluszny nears tackles record 
Nittany Lions' inside linebacker is set to win another Butkus award 
Associated Press 

STATE COLLEGE, Pa. -Paul Posluszny's trophies from the 2005 season have been collect­ing dust in his parents' base­ment. Mom and Dad may soon need to clear space for some new hardware. 
The hard-nosed senior is again making big stops for Penn State, though 2006 didn't start quite as smoothly as last year's star-turning campaign, when Posluszny earned awards as the nation's best defensive player and linebacker. 
Posluszny suffered a serious right knee injury during the Orange Bowl in January that limited him in the offseason. After going through rehabilita­tion, Posluszny was moved from outside to inside at the start of the season as coach Joe Paterno switched to a four­linebacker scheme. It took a while for Posluszny to get com­fortable with the defense and his rehabbed knee. 
Not that Purdue co·ach Joe Tiller noticed a difference. 
"He looks like he came from the womb playing linebacker," said Tiller, whose Boilermakers (5-3, 2-2 Big Ten) host the Nittany Lions (5-3, 3-2) on Saturday. "The great ones are that way." 
Posluszny is a semifinalist again to be the nation's top defender and linebacker. And he might soon be able add this to his resume -he's 17 tack­
! 
l

~-2---00--UF-RF-:~~;~;a~~:::-----l I 
~12694 State Road 933 1 

: • Polis.h-n-Sealer
!B E sT.

v'Vc1x Applied • 2-Step Underbody iiiiiiilaaiiiiiiiillllii~~~~~~~ Protectant WASH •Spot-Free 
Rinse 
Just notth of Notre Dame on U.S. 31 ! 


les shy of tying Greg Buttle's career record of 343 at Linebacker U. 
"It's always good to hear. Anytime something comes up, it's not just for any particular player, it's for the defense in general," Posluszny said about the accolades. "But the most important thing right now is Purdue. The most important thing is winning." 
Reserved off the field, "Pos" is a fiery competitor on game­day, so renowned for his lead­ership that teammates elected him the first two-time captain at Penn State since 1968-69. 
He's a bookworm, too, having been the seventh Nittany Lion to earn All-America and Academic All-America honors in the same season. Posluszny has talked in the past ofjoining the military, though undoubt­edly an NFL career awaits. 
"Paul is one of the best line­backers that we've ever had," said Paterno, in his 41st year as head coach. 
Still, there were questions about his knee to start the sea­son. Posluszny was carted off the field during the Orange Bowl with two partially torn ligaments in his right knee. 
He was held back from full contact at spring practice, but pronounced himself 100 per­cent to start the preseason. Team doctors have insisted that Posluszny wear a knee brace as a precaution, an order that the senior begrudg­ingly accepts. 
Then coaches threw him another curve and asked him to play inside linebacker. With a lack of experienced linemen, the switch allowed Paterno to 
I I I I I 
l 
i t 
Soutll Bend, Indiana 46637 I 
! 

move Tim Shaw from middle linebacker to a hybrid defen­sive end/outside linebacker position and get young, talent­ed. Sean Lee into the starting lineup outside. 
Posluszny didn't complain, though there were some early question marks. 
He looked out of position at times and missed tackles on plays that appeared to be auto­matic hits last year. Some won­dered if Posluszny was a step slower because of the knee. 
"It seemed like at the begin­ning of the year with the first game, I didn't have double­digit tackles, and for some, they said, 'This kid is terrible now.' That was interesting, to say the least," Posluszny said. 
Coaches dismissed questions about his knee, though Posluszny did say he felt more limited earlier in the season wearing a heavier brace. These days, he sports a small­er, less obtrusive contraption on the knee. 
The biggest challenge was mentaL 
"I feel so much more com­fortable now," he said. ''I'm starting to finally feel at home at the position." 
Not good news for oppo­nents. 
"Mentally, he's running the whole show," defensive coordi­nator Tom Bradley said. 
The highlight-reel plays ­such as his takedown of Ohio State quarterback Troy Smith from behind during a night game last year at Beaver Stadium -aren't as frequent. Freewheeling outside lineback­ers often get more chances to make those kinds of plays. 


University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Andy Magee, amagee@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800; or Fr. Dick Warner, CSC, at 1-9704 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) 

Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at: 

http://www.corecouncil.nd.edu/ 


He still made the highlights last week, bringing Illinois' Isiah Williams down from behind and reaching for the quarterback's right arm just enough to cause a fumble that led to Tony Davis' 6-yard touchdown return. The score gave the Nittany Lions' strug­gling offense some breathing room in a 26-12 win. 
Posluszny went to Shaw for advice earlier in the year about playing inside, counsel that isn't needed as much anymore. 
"He's got it pretty much down pat," Shaw said. "I knew it wouldn't take him that long." 
Thursday, October 26, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
AUTO RACING 
Mario Andretti honored for skill, citizenship 
Famous Italian racer given Italy's highest honor in New York 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Mario Andretti just grins when reminded that police officers all over America -and maybe the world -still invoke his name after they pull over a speeder. 
"Who do you think you are, Mario Andretti?" 
Andretti shakes his head and says, "Hey, that even happened to me once. You can imagine the look I got when I said, 'Yeah, it's me."' 
Andretti didn't get that tick­et. 
Over the years, the man who holds the unofficial title of best all-around racer ever has been given many honors. None is more prized than the one he received Monday night at the Columbus Citizens Foundation in New York. 
A beaming Andretti, standing before a small crowd of family and friends, received the Commendatore dell'Ordine al Merito della Repubblica ltaliana in honor of his public service, achievements as a race car driver and enduring commitment to his Italian her­itage. 
The Commendatore, as it is known, is the highest honor granted a civilian by the Italian government, similar to being knighted in Great Britain. Only a handful of Italian Americans have been given the honor, and it took a while for the folks who give out these things to get around to Andretti. 
Still, it was more or less inevitable. 
It's been 12 years since the most famous of the racing Andrettis retired from compe­tition. But the image of the skinny kid with a shock of 
unruly black hair, a gleaming same day that Andretti smile and hard, determined wrapped up the world champi­eyes remains just as clear as onship. ever to those who watched Yet Andretti never missed a Mario race on circuits all over race due to injury until the late the globe. 1980's, when he broke his col­
He not only drove just about larbone in a crash at the 
anything with an engine, he won in what­ever he raced. And he did it during a time when deaths and serious injuries in rac­ing were com­mon. 
Andretti has often said he used to sit in the prerace meetings in 
his Formula One days and wonder which of the drivers in the room would be dead by the end of the day. Ronnie Peterson, his best friend, was killed in a crash in 1978 on the 

1/zu.tJdai{J 

in every booth I
Korooke 9 pm -1 om NFL Sundoy Ticket 
~~;~ setUJeentile #1 
~ Reader,.. 5 ...::.....ftS 
-~Choi= ·' ....... 
Sports Bor
~x"~ SPORTS BAR 
t:?anzpu~ _s?.ho-pp12~, _s?o-u~h L?12nd 
vvvvvv. Bet:vveent:heBu n s.com 
anned nancy? 
ne you love needs help 
please call. 

l(l,Jnr:1a1 support and assistance 
av.~tl•:tl1l'e· at 1\/otre Dame: 
Campus Ministry, 1-716 3 
Campus Ministry, 1-7163 
Steihe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 
Health Services, 1-8286 
Flot Screen TVs 
"Indeed, Mario Andretti has always been a prominent member ofthe Italian American community." 
Antonio Bandini Italian consul general 
Milwaukee Mile during a CART event. 
Despite a career filled with disap­pointments -par­ticularly at the Indianapolis 500, where the phrase "Mario is slowing on the backstretch" became something of a refrain ­Andretti's overall record likely will never be duplicated 

-or even approached. 
He did win at Indy in 1969, and he also added victories in NASCAR's Daytona 500, the 12 Hours of Sebring sports car race -three times -and Monte Carlo, among many oth­ers. Andretti was a four-time 
U.S. national champion and became only the second American to win the Formula One title, joining Phil Hill. 
The diminutive Andretti won races in five decades, was Driver of the Year three times and 
was named co­''I'm sure he could close just how Driver of the 20th good he really
still get in a car
Century, along was."
and be

with A.J. Foyt, by Marco, Mario's a panel chosen by competitive. " 19-year-old The Associated grandson who Press. nearly won the
Marco Andretti 

He came from Indy 500 in May
grandson

humble begin­but was overtak­
nings, born in 1940 in the town of Montana in an area called Istria, formerly part of Italy, ceded to Yugoslavia after World War II and now divided between Slovenia and Croatia. Andretti spent seven years in displaced persons camps after the war before emigrating with his family to Nazareth, Pa., where he still makes his home. 
Over the years, Andretti rep­resented his adopted country with a passion. But he also remained very much an Italian -something fellow Italians all en on the last lap 
to finish second, just ahead of his father, leans on his grandfather as a racing mentor. 
''I'm sure he could still get in a car and be -competitive," Marco said. "When I ask him a question, he always knows the answer. He has been in every situation possible on a race­track and he is really good about being able to tell me what should be happening out there. I would love to have the opportunity to race against him. 

over the world have appreciat­ed and admired. 
The Commendatore was pre­sented by Antonio Bandini, Italy's Consul General to New York, on behalf of Italian presi­dent Giorgio Napolitano. 
"Fantastic achievements in sport are not the only reason we honor him with the most important distinction of the Italian Republic," Bandini said. "Indeed, Mario Andretti has always been a prominent member of the Italian American community (and) extremely proud of his Italian heritage." 
In the crowd on Monday evening, eldest son Michael Andretti glowed with pride. 
"I remember going to race­track with dad when I was a kid and the respect that people gave him," said Michael, who retired from full-time racing two years ago after his own great career to concentrate on team ownership. 
"I never really thought about how good he was because he was doing all that stuff before I was born and it just seemed natural," he added. "But, after I started racing, I realized how incredible he was. During the years that we raced against each other in CART, I saw up 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 26, 2006 
NHL 

Ruff plays with perfection 
Despite a 9-0 start, Sabres' head coach still looking for improvement 
Associated Press 

BUFFALO, N.Y.-Poor Lindy Ruff. 
The Buffalo Sabres coach is trying his nitpicking best, but fighting a losing battle in an attempt to find fault with his team's perfect start. 
At 9-0, Buffalo is one win short of matching the NHL record set by Toronto in 1993 for best start to a season, a feat the Sabres can accom­plish when they play the Islanders at Long Island on Thursday. 
To hear Ruff tell it, his team is a work in progress. 
"You've got to find the little things to make you even bet­ter," he said Wednesday. "We'll just keep nitpicking." 
And yet, for "You ,ve got to find that," Tallinder every problem said. "I don't
the little things to 
Ruff attempts see it like a big
make you even
to identify -thing. But and he's down better., records are to complaining made to be bro­about Buffalo's ken, so why not
Lindy Ruff
forecheck in an break it if we
Buffalo coach 
otherwise effi­cient 4-1 win at Montreal on Monday -there are a half­dozen or so things that leave him impressed. 
"There are moments where you look at the plays, you look at some of the goals, you look at the effort, you look at some of the blocked shots, you look at the desperation, and you say, 'Boy, they did a lot of good things,"' Ruff said. 
With a win against the 
Islanders, the Sabres would have an opportunity to break the record when they host Atlanta on Saturday. 
The NHL is recognizing the streak even though the Sabres have won three games by shootout, which the league instituted last season to elimi­nate ties. The Maple Leafs in 1993, by comparison, won nine games in regulation and one in overtime. 
Little of this matters to Sabres players, some of whom, such as defenseman Henrik Tallinder, weren't aware the team broke its fran­chise mark of 8-0 set in 1975 or was even approaching a league record. 
"You know what, I really 
wasn't paying 
attention to all 
can." 
The Sabres' 

ho-hum attitude belies what has otherwise been a determined, workman­like approach for a team already pegged as Stanley Cup contenders. The high expecta­tions are a result of Buffalo returning most of its team intact after losing Game 7 of the Eastern Conference finals to eventual Stanley Cup cham­pion Carolina Hurricanes last season. 
Over the course of their streak, the Sabres have won in almost every imaginable fash­ion: from scoring six times in a period, as they did in a 9-1 win over Philadelphia last week, to three times overcom­ing two-goal deficits. 
Eight of their wins have come against teams that made the playoffs last year, includ­ing two victories against Carolina. They've defeated three division champs, includ­ing Detroit, which had the NHL's best record last season. 
And they've contributed to the NHL's first coaching change, Philadelphia's Ken Hitchcock was fired last week­end in part because of his team's loss to Buffalo. 
The Sabres have actually won 14 straight regular-sea­son games after winning their last five last season. And, for those counting, the only blem­ish on their record in the past two months was a 4-1 loss to Columbus in Buffalo's second preseason game. 
"It's pretty impressive. And I hope we're not done yet," said defenseman Jaroslav Spacek, the team's only offseason free­agent addition. 
To put the Sabres' streak into perspective, among North America's top four pro sports leagues, there have been only 13 teams that have gone 9-0 to start a season since 1993, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. The best start of the bunch is the NBA Houston Rockets, who went 15-0 in 1993. 

Ludwig Wlttgenstein 

Meet Ludwig a new way-
OUT LOUD 
Lectio@Eleven 

A Late-night Cabaret for the Soul 
Readings, music, and open mike at Recker's Tuesdays 11:00 pm-Midnight, starting Halloween contact Jonathan Couser, jcouser@nd.edu or 631-3923 
NFL 

Big Ben questionable for gan1e in Oakland 
Steelers have a tough decision regarding the QB's long-term health 
Associated Press 
Questionable is a word used a lot around the NFL. It's there every week in the injury reports that bookies and bet­tors like to study so much, usu­ally stuck somewhere in between probable and doubtful. 
Ben Roethlisberger, who was last seen sprawled unconscious on the field in Atlanta, is ques­tionable this week. The Pittsburgh Steelers said so, meaning their star quarterback may or may not play Sunday against the Oakland Raiders. 
Questionable. It's a word that can be used to describe many things. 
Let's begin with the judgment of anyone involved with the Steelers who actually believes it is a good idea to rush back Roethlisberger after two con­cussions in four months. 
Head injury one Sunday, starting nod the next. You don't need a degree in neurology to figure out something is wrong with this equation. 
Concussions forced two other quarterbacks out of the game in recent years. Troy Aikman and Steve Young retired early because the cumulative effect of concussions, and they're hardly alone among NFL alum­ni. 
Current players aren't faring much better. 
Quarterbacks Charlie Frye and Steve McNair recently left games with concussions and so did Minnesota receiver Troy Williamson. 
Carolina linebacker Dan Morgan's season is over, and the horrifying image of Chiefs quarterback Trent Green hav­ing his head slammed to the ground in the first game of the season is an indelible one. 
Concussions, it seems, are the NFL's dirty little secret. It's not just that they happen so often, but that the league doesn't seem to be doing much about it. 
Sure, the NFL says it has had a committee of doctors studying them since 1994. But experts in the field say the league's stud­ies are flawed, use suspect 

"Purdue is o great schooL It ho> mofly diver~<~ field& of studY and pwple ore &a nke. living in lafpye!te is nol that e"l'!'nsive so you ~on afford o comfortable standard ol living with the given .~~. Idefinitely <meooroge you 10 come lo Purilue." 
data, and don't stand up to peer review. 
So when the NFL says no evi­dence has been found that brain function declines as a result of a concussion, the news is greeted with skepticism in the medical community. 
"What the NFL allegedly finds is totally at odds with scores of publications that are out there," said Dr. Robert Cantu, a neurologist and leading expert in brain injuries at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. "The stuff the NFL is putting out is just not the way the thinking is in the communi­ty of sports medicine and spe­cialists with expertise in this area." 
Among those is a recent study by the University of North Carolina, which reported 10 percent of retired NFL players say concussions have had a permanent effect on their abili­ty to think and remember things as they've gotten older. 
Hall of Fame linebacker Harry Carson of the New York Giants is one of them. He esti­mates he had a dozen or more "bell-ringers" in his career, though he wasn't aware they were concussions. Carson said he has long had from memory problems because of postcon­cussion syndrome. 
For others, it's even worse. 
Former Steelers lineman Terry Long died last year at the age of 45 from a brain inflam­mation that resulted, in part, from repeated head injuries. Fellow Steelers center Mike Webster was diagnosed with football-induced dementia before he died at the age of 50. 
Coaches, though, seem to regard them as minor irritants. 
Vikings coach Brad Childress offered his own diagnosis the other day after Williamson was injured. 
"He does know what time zone we're in right now, and he can read a clock. So he's going to be OK," Childress said. 
Football, of course, isn't alone in having to deal with brain injuries. Keith Primeau had two years and $6 million left on his contract with the Philadelphia Flyers but retired earlier this year when even the most mun­dane skating drills caused him problems due to past concus­sions. 
Explore the Purdue University Graduate School as you weigh your future career and professional development options! 
You will discover: 
• 
Over 70 master's and doctoral degree programs ranging from the sciences, arts, and humanities to interdisciplinary programs and much more 

• 
Research-and practice-oriented curricula 

• 
Approximately 70% of Purdue graduate students receive funding 


Why would you go anywhere else? 
To apply or to learn more about what the Purdue Graduate School has to 

Thursday, October 26, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
NBA 
Stern cracks down on guns 
hit by a car. players are "informed of the
Commissioner wants 
The NBA's collective bar­legalities of it, what you can or players to stop taking gaining agreement allows can't do, and the pros of cons players to own licensed guns, of having a weapon are dis­
firearms into public but they can't carry them on cussed extensively." 
any league or team business. With the start of the season 
Asked what kind of firearm less than a week away, Stern
Associated Press rule he would want if collec­also addressed the arena situ­NEW YORK -David Stern tive bargaining weren't ation in Sacramento. The city's understands having a gun to involved, Stern said: "I would residents will be asked to protect your home. He's not favor being able to have a approve two ballot measures convinced carrying one on the firearm to protect your home. on Nov. 7 that would increase streets makes you any safer. Period." · local sales tax as part of the For that reason, the NBA He added that walking the Kings' quest to replace Arco commissioner said Wednesday streets carrying guns was Arena with a new downtown that he would prefer his play­"dangerous for our players," building. ers leave their firearms behind but said there has been no fur­The measures are consid­when they go out. ther discussion with the union ered long-shots to pass, and "It's a pretty, I think, widely about strengthening the policy. Stern seems to understand accepted statistic that if you Union spokesman Dan why after claiming that a deal carry a gun, your Wasserman said between the city and the chances of being it already was developer hasn't been final­
"/ would favor 
shot by one bolstered in last ized. increase dramati­being able to have year's agreement, "In the absence of a deal cally," Stern said at the request of between the city and a devel­
a firearm to protect
during his pre­the league. oper, I don't know what any
your home. '' 
season confer­"In response to fair-minded citizen of ence call. "We issues raised by Sacramento is being asked to think this is an David Stern the NBA during vote on," he said. "I would love alarming subject, bargaining last to see them support an arena
NBA commissioner 
that although year," he said, "a development, but I would tell you'll read play-provision was them that they better make ers saying how they feel safer added to the collective bar­sure that the city gets with it with guns, in fact those guns gaining agreement that sub­to see whether the deal can in actually make them less safe. jects the players to discipline if fact be done. Right now there And it's a real issue." they bring any kind of firearm, is no deal anyplace." 
It's one that was raised even if it's licensed, to an NBA Also, Stern said he expected recently when Indiana's arena, practice facility, or even to rule on Larry Brown's griev­Stephen Jackson shot a gun in a team or league* offsite pro­ance with the Knicks sometime the air at least five times out­motional appearance." during the second week of the side an Indianapolis strip club Wasserman also said that season. The Knicks refused to on Oct. 6. He originally told the dangers of firearms are pay the remainder of Brown's police he fired in self-defense discussed during the rookie contract after firing him one during a fight in which he was transition program, where year into a five-year deal. 
MLB 
Hank Aaron avvard goes to Jeter, Howard 
755 was also on hand to pres­
Fans vote sluggers 
ent the awards. 
top offensive players ''I'm extremely proud that I'm sitting here today to givein respective leagues this award to two of the play­ers that I think have exempli­Associated Press fied what I think Major League Baseball is all about," 
ST LOUIS -Young slugger Aaron said, praising both Ryan Howard of the Phillies players for their performance and Yankees sparkplug Derek on the field and the way they Jeter were selected by fan­carry themselves off it. voting as winners of the Hank Howard, who helped the Aaron Award as outstanding Phillies make a late-season offensive performer in each run at the playoffs, said he league, Commissioner Bud had a lot of fun in 2006. Selig announced on "It's been a pleasure this Wednesday. season. It was a blast," 
Howard, 26, belted 58 home Howard said. "Hopefully runs to lead the major many more to come." leagues in 2006 and set a club Jeter, sitting next to base­record with the National ball's all-time home run League's Philadelphia Phillies. leader and young slugger The first baseman, who won Howard, said, "I sort of feel Rookie of the Year honours out of place." last season, also led the The Yankees shortstop, who majors in runs batted in with stole 34 bases, hit only 14 
149. homers. 
Jeter finished second in the "With Hank Aaron, the first American League batting race thin'g that comes to mind is with a .343 average, finished home runs. Ryan Howard the second in runs scored (118), same thing. So when people tied for third in hits (214) and said what award I was going was fourth in on-base per­to win, I stuck my chest out, centage(.417). and I said, 'You know, the 
Hank Aaron, who in 1974 Hank Aaron Award. What do surpassed Babe Ruth's record you think?" said Jeter. 714 career home runs, and "It's an honor and a privi­went on to establish the cur­lege for me to be here, and I rent major league record of really appreciate it." 

2006 Nanovic Institute Distinguished European Lecturer 
H. E. Mons. J6zef iyciiisl<i~ 
Archbishop of Lublin, Poland Chancellor of the Catholic University of Lublin 
"Neighbors?Jews ana Catholics in Post-Shoah Polana." 
Wednesday, November 1, 8:00pm Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
TheArchbishhop will also give a lecture on Tues, Oct 31 at 4:15pm in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium on "Determinism and Finality in Philosophical Understanding ofEvolution," and will participate in apublic roundtable on Wed, Nov. 1from 3-4:30 pm in 101 Jordan Science Hall on ('Catholicism and Evolution." 
?t6y. iycinski is the author ofthe 6ook §oaana~vo(ution: ifunaamenta(Questions ofChristian :Evo(utionism lfortficomint], 2007). 
Free and open to the public Sponsored by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies. Hosted by the Department of Theology. 
------·-~ : -----·~---------------. 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 26, 2006 
PGA 

Els under pressure at Chrysler Championship 
Associated Press 

PALM HARBOR, Fla. -Ernie Els has never missed the season­ending Tour Championship when playing a full schedule with a healthy body, so he jotted that down as part of his global sched­ule when laying out his plans for the year. 
But not everything has gone according to plan. 
Els thought the Chrysler Championship might be a good place for him to get ready for East Lake next week. But at No. 30 on the PGA Tour money list, he needs a good week at Innisbrook simply to get into the Tour Championship. He only has a $53,000 margin over Tim Clark at No. 31, knowing that any of the 60 guys behind him could win and potentially knock him out. 
"I really don't want to miss it," Els said Wednesday. "Finishing in the top 30 would give you something. I haven't had too much to grab onto this year. I've had some good finishes outside of the U.S. In the U.S. itself, I haven't really been up to my best." 
Els is back in the United States for the first time in two months. Now, the goal is to stay two weeks. 
Since joining the PGA Tour in 1994, the year he won his first 
U.S. Open, Els has missed the Tour Championship only twice ­in 1998 when his season was hampered by back injuries and last year when he missed the last three months because of knee surgery. 
Els is not alone in his pursuit of secondary gains at the Chrysler Championship, which starts Thursday at Innisbrook. 
This is the fmal full-field tour­nament of the year, one last chance for players to either get into the Tour Championship (top 30 on the money list) or the Masters (top 40). Perhaps more critical is keeping a job for next year, and that will be decided by the top 125 for full status and 


exclusively from Discover® Card 
The 


* No annual fee 

• 
Cashback Bonus® on every purchase 

• 
Easiest online account management 



* 
$0 fraud liability guarantee 

* 
Talk to a live person in under 60 seconds 


Stud 
1n• 


Reward yourself with a ~" Gift Cezrd;· 
Apply today. Call 1-800-347-2091 or visit Discovercard.com/apply4card Enter or mention invitation #SBDQ. 

DISC VER~ 
Better lnnredi.n1b. CARDlknerPin;<. 
t:~~:~~!~a~-~~~~~~:~~dc~~:~~~~~/:';~~l~~:} ~~:~~)%fv~~);:r~t~:i~~~_;;~~~\~~:·~<;;;~~~ih~~)~o$~·5~;~~~~~!; f:c~~~;r!~e~l.e:~·~Z--·~~:r~(~~; ~~~:J :~;,; 1~~.~~~:)';~t~~~~~~i ~~~~~~7~~:1~-;~:t%, D~fo,;!l Af\R: vofiabie "4"' $40 PAPA JOHN'S C7lF1 CARD OVF·Eft Yc~3 w;!! rece:~..-e fwo $20 Papo Johrt<'~ Gift Cord& hy rnoiL v·.rilh~n 6· 8 weeh ..:.\f n~uking 'f(>!H first p:.ucho:se with your Di:scove( Curd, H as d ~hlf-' dale wB dtHf::·;nk;e wh<Yther )''Cu m<Yl fhe-t~r;r::-; rA lhl$ df~r, ·-y<ovf CF.;.C(.l;.J:1t ;~. dc&ed or dellnqvr:nt; yov ...~rill nc~t r~t:eive Hw Gih Co!d. Umi! two Gift Card-; ~)~f ,<\;:.count. ·yv~ fJ.:"B (lQ! :-e-s.pOn.$lbl~ kJ:-;Y;~n:.har:~ dl;$kly& ;n p:-o<:f..'S&ing r(w1::.0~~tion~. Svbie~.~t fG PopGJohnt~..\: Gift Curd Ter:Yl'$ and (\.:ndilion*-. ()fier volid HJ/l/06-"1/31/0/. ~f;)2006 o;s<:over f3.ar:k. AAerober fD!C 
the top 150 for conditional sta­tus. The odd man out appeared to be Bubba Dickerson. 
He had a chance to sew up his card last week until a 72-78 weekend at Disney moved him up to No. 125. But with such a low standing, he was the third alternate at Innisbrook, and milling around the locker room, he was losing hope that three guys would pull out of the event over the next 24 hours. 
Dickerson, a former U.S. Amateur champion, blamed no one but himself. 
"I could have taken care of it last week," he said. "I wouldn't be in this situation if I had played better golf. It's tough to take." 
He could still keep his position, but it's unlikely. Any of the three guys behind him on the money list only have to make the cut to give Dickerson one more tourna­ment this year -the fmal stage of Q-school. 
"I would walk away from here thinking I'm toast," he said. 
For Els, more troubling than his precarious position on the money list is the fact he hasn't hoisted a trophy all year, any­where around the world. He lost a playoff to Tiger Woods in Dubai. He was one shot behind Woods going into the third round at the British Open, but wound up in third place, five shots behind. 
As much as the Big Easy would love to be at the Tour Championship next week, he has a bigger goal in mind. Els loves starting the year in Hawaii at the Mercedes-Benz Championship, and the only way to get there is to win. 
"That's the urgency I want," he said. 
But even Kapalua is but one small step toward a grandiose goaL Els believes he lost his focus this year, spending too much time worrying about what happened in the past instead of paying attention to what he can accomplish in the future. 
Perhaps no other elite player from his generation has endured more crushing losses than the 37 -year-old South African. Two years ago, he missed playoffs in the Masters and PGA Championship by one shot, and lost in a playoff at the British Open. The other major that year was the U.S. Open, where he played in the final group and shot 80. 
Then came the knee injury last July while boating in the Mediterranean, which cost him the final three months of the PGA Tour season. Els returned sooner than expected, but still had trou­ble earlier this year trusting that his knee would hold up. 
"It's not like I've fallen off the map completely," Els said. "I haven't been consistent; I know that. But I don't want to read too much into it. I want to get back and forget about the past and start moving forward toward my goal." 
The Tour Championship would be a start. Kapalua would be even sweeter. 
But he has a bigger blueprint in mind. Els said he has given himself a "realistic goal" for the next three years, which will require d edica­tion to his body and his mind. 
Why three years? Els smiled, as if he was going to keep that to himself. But what he said next made it clear that he has not given up his pursuit of returning to No.1 in the world. 

Thursday, October 26, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT page 25 

The Kellogg Institute for International Studies 
presents 

Helen Mack Chang 
RECIPIENT OF THE 2005 NoTRE DAME PRIZE FOR DISTINGUISHED PUBLIC SERVICE IN LATIN AMERICA 
"La muerte es vida" (Death is Life) 
Presented in· Spanish with simultaneous translation in English 
Tuesday, October 31,2006 at 7:00pm Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Helen Mack Chang is the founder ofGuatemala's Myrna Mack Foundation, which she formed in her quest for justice for the brutal 1990 murder of her sister, as well as for the thousands of other citizens who lost their lives at the hands of the military. For her ongoing efforts to bring justice and reconciliation to Guatemala, she was awarded the 2005 Notre Dame Prize. 

~UNIVERSITY OF 

0KELLOGG lNSTITUI'E
WNOTREDAME 

~~------­
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 26, 2006 
MLB 

Game called due to rainy weather in St. Louis 
Constant downpours cause World Series matchup to be cancelled for first time since Yankees-Braves in 1996 
J 
Associated Press 

ST. LOUIS -Pitchers domi­nated the first three games of the World Series and the rain took over. 
Game 4 was postponed Wednesday night because of rain and will be made up Thursday at 8:27 p.m. EDT, potentially sending the World Series into scheduling 
chaos. More rainout since
'Tou want to go out
showers are the 1996 opener
there and play, but
expected the between the next two days, you can't control the Atlanta Braves and nobody was weather.,, and New York certain when Yankees. The the Detroit rain fell harder Tigers and St. Preston Wilson as the night Louis Cardinals St. Louis outfielder progressed, and 
would play again. 

"They're going to be dicey," said Jimmie Lee Solomon, executive vice presi­dent of baseball operations in the commissioner's office. 
Game 5 at Busch Stadium was pushed back to Friday night, which was supposed to be a day off in the Series. It doesn't look much better this weekend in Detroit, with a forecast of rain and cold. 
The Cardinals lead the best­of-seven Series 2-1 after a 5­0 victory behind ace Chris Carpenter on Tuesday night. 
A silver tarp covered the infield all evening, players didn't come out to warm up and Game 4 never got start­ed. 
"You want to go out there and play, but you can't con­trol the weather. It's not that big of a deal," St. Louis out­fielder Preston Wilson said. 
Steady showers all day led 
to the first 
World Series 
the game was called after a 

delay of 1 hour, 51 minutes, the 
first  time  a  "They're going to be  crowd at Busch  
Series game in  dicey.,  Stadium  was  
St.  Louis  has  informed of the  
been rained out. It also was the  Jimmie Lee Solomon  rainout about three minutes  
fourth washout  executive vice president  after  Major  
of a  wet  post­ Baseball Operations  League Baseball  
season.  The  made  the  
Cardinals  had  announcement.  
two  games  \  Fans covered in  

rained out in the NL champi­plastic who had hoped for the onship series against the New rain to stop quickly filed York Mets, and Game 2 of toward the exits. 
rHURSDAY, OcTOBER 26 @8:00PM 
JOYCE CENTER ARENA 
COME MEET THE 2006~2001 MEN's BASKETBALL TEAM, AND DON't MISS YOUR CHANCE TO BUY YOUR SEASON TICKETS! FEATURING SPECIAL GUEST... 
joHN PAXSoN! (CHICAGO BuLLS ExECUTIVE VP, BASKETBALL OPERATIONS, NoTRE DAME '83 
You CoULD WIN $50,000! 
OTHER PRIZES INCLUDE••• 
.. RouNo~~TRIP AIRFARE FOR Two oN ALLEGIANT AIR 
.. BooKs FOR ASEMESTER ~ 
, fREE SEASON TICKETS... AND MUCH MORE '\'0~ ~s. 
Detroit's first-round series at Yankee Stadium also was postponed. 
The postponement gives St. Louis manager Tony La Rossa a chance to juggle his rota­tion if he wants. He could bring Jeff Weaver back on regular rest in Game 5 instead of pitching rookie Anthony Reyes again. Reyes, however, tossed eight-plus strong innings for a 7-2 victo­ry in the opener. 
Tigers manager Jim Leyland could do the same with Kenny Rogers, who beat Weaver in Game 2 on Sunday night and extended his shutout streak to 23 innings this postseason. But Leyland specifically set up his rotation to give Rogers two starts at home, and the Series doesn't shift back to 
Detroit until 
Game 6. 
A sparse 


COME WATCH AS YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS TAKE ON THE PLAYERS IN THREE~~POINT CONTESTS, SKILLS CONTESTS, AND OTHER EVENTS THROUGHOUT THIS EVENING. 
~\0~ ~~~ ~~ ~~~s
!\\\ 
~ 
Thursday, October 26, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
MLB 
La Russa unsure of starter 
Reyes, Weaver could each pitch in Game 5 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -Jeff Weaver 
and Anthony Reyes sat togeth­
er in the interview room, look­
ing at each other and waiting 
for questions. There was one 
they couldn't answer: Who's 
going to pitch Game 5 of the 
World Series for the St. Louis 
Cardinals? 
"I don't know which it's 
going to be, so they're both 
getting ready," St. Louis man­
ager Tony La Russa said 
Wednesday. 
That decision will be delayed another day because Game 4 was postponed by rain Wednesday night. Jeff Suppan and the Detroit Tigers' Jeremy Bonderman will try again on Thursday, with the teams facing another iffy forecast. 
The Cardinals lead the best­
of-seven series 2-1. 
Tigers manager Jim Leyland wouldn't discuss his options after Game 4 was called. Justin Verlander had been set to go in Game 5, but Kenny Rogers could move ahead of him if the Tigers face elimina­tion. 
"You can speculate as you all do," Leyland said. "You can second guess how the rota­tion's going to go the rest of the series, whatever you want to do. 
"Jeremy Bonderman is pitching the next game for the Tigers, he's earned it. He's one of our horses and he will be on the mound when Game 4 starts, whenever that may be" of rest always helps, but I feel 
After the Cardinals' third good right now." rainout of the postseason, La Verlander struggled in a Russa said Reyes and Weaver matchup of rookie starters would pitch Games 5 and 6 against Reyes in Game 1. with the order to be deter­While Reyes was brilliant for mined by where the series eight innings in a 7-2 victory stands. Weaver could go on that night at Comerica Park, regular rest in Game 5 on Verlander, a 17-game winner, Friday followed by Reyes, a gave up six earned runs in rookie, and ace Chris five-plus innings. Carpenter on He has a regular rest in 10.80 ERA
"You can second guess 
a Game 7. against the
how the rotation ·s going
That's the Cardinals and most likely sce­to go the rest of the a 7.47 ERA in nario, although three postsea­
series, whatever you 
La Russa noted son starts.
want to do.,,

that he could The Tigers bring back were disap­Carpenter on Jim Leyland pointed with three days' Verlander's
Tigers manager

rest in Game 6 if the Cardinals needed a win to keep the series going. 
"What our record is has a lot to do with it," pitching coach Dave Duncan said. 
The rainout means that Suppan, the MVP of the NL championship series, would be able to pitch only once in the series. 
La Russa wasn't looking beyond the next game. 
"Just play the one tomorrow and don't get too far ahead," he said. 
The pre-game scene was unusual and somewhat awk­ward, although neither right­hander sounded too worried. 
"I always go at it like I'm going to pitch, so I just do everything I was going to do before, like I'm going to pitch," Reyes said. "If it's not my time, I just try to prepare for the next one." 
Said Weaver: "Another day lack of velocity 
in Game 1. Normally around 100 mph, Verlander's fastballs were in the low 90s. 
"I wasn't really driving with my legs as much as lhad been earlier in the year," he said. "We worked on that a little bit. I think it was just a mix of· maybe the mechanics and how my arm felt that day." 
The Cardinals seemed stuck with the 25-year-old Reyes for Game 1 after beating the Mets in a seven-game NLCS because their other starters weren't rested. 
Reyes is ready to go again. So is Weaver, who might have pitched on three days' rest for the first time in his career. Now, he won't have to do that. 
"I've done my preparation for a short rest to start and everything feels good," he said in the afternoon. "So either way I feel like it's not going to matter." 
AnAcK FoRMATION 

Irish safety ~hinedum Ndukwe, left, linebacker Travis Thomas, center, and defensive tackle Trevor Laws, r~ght, wait to rush the quarterback in Notre Dame's 20-17 win over UCLA Saturday. 
MLB 
Henderson celebrates anniversary of 'Wave' 
'Krazy George' says he began cheer in 1981 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Krazy 
George Henderson has spent 
the last quarter-century trying 
to persuade everyone that he 
debuted the "Wave" during an 
Oakland Athletics' playoff game 
against the Yankees -not 
those Washington football fans 
who claim the Huskies first 
performed the now famous 
cheer. 
Debate aside, the Wave is 25 
years old and still going strong. 
"It's been really interesting," 
Krazy George said in a phone 
interview from his home in 
New Rochelle, N.Y. "I see it at 
the Olympics. There's a video of 
Fidel Castro doing it. If it had 
actually originated in New York 
at a Yankees game, they would 
have thought it was sent by the 
gods." 
Krazy George, now 62, says 
he spent three years perfecting 
the Wave. He first pulled off the 
move -in which fans take 
turns, by section, .standing up 
and waving their arms -on 
Oct. 15, 1981, at the Yankees­
A's AL championship series 
game in the Coliseum. 
Washington, meanwhile, did it 
two weeks later, on Oct. 31. 
Former Husky yell leader 
Robb Weller had returned to 
campus for a homecoming 
game against Stanford. He 
began a vertical version of the 
Wave in the '70s, but first did 
the horizontal Wave that day. 
Officials at Washington 
acknowledge Krazy George as 
being first, but what they are 
certain of is that the Huskies 
popularized the cheer. It soon 
caught on at a Seattle 
Seahawks game, too. 
It took a year and a half, 
according to Krazy George, for 
the Huskies to fess up that 
they'd seen the Wave on televi­
sion and given it their own 
twist. Good thing, too, because 
he has the proof on tape: The 
Wave was part of the Xs 1981 
highlight video shown to poten­
tial season ticket holders for 
the following year. 
"That's the best-kept lie in the last 25 years. But now, most of the world recognizes me," Krazy George said. "Their theory is that they came up with it in 30 seconds! 'Oh, we just thought it up.' 
"They kept doing it the whole 
football season and of course 
they were a big national foot­
ball power with a big budget. I 
tell everyone to call Seattle and get their side of the story. It's like a war with me." 
Krazy George, known best by that name and for pounding his drum in stadiums across the United States, is a California native who moved north to Napa from Southern California at age 17. He left for New York three years ago. 
A former high school shop teacher, Krazy George's lone job the last 30 years has been as a for-hire cheerleader ­working all of about three hours a week. Yes, that's it. He averages one game every seven days. 
In that first Wave game, the Yankees eliminated the /\s 4-0 to reach the World Series. Dave Righetti, now the San Francisco Giants' pitching coach, was the winning pitcher. A crowd of 47,302 was on hand for the first Wave. 
"We put it on the map in 1981," said Shooty Babitt, a rookie on the '81 Xs. "A lot of people wish the Wave would go away now. A lot of people don't understand when you should do it. ... The new-age fan does­n't understand where the Wave originated. But Krazy George still looks the same today as he did 25 years ago." 
Krazy George is a well­known figure at sporting ven­ues, especially in the Bay Area. Mostly bald with blond curls above his ears, he wears his striped athletic socks pulled up and always has a drum in hand. 
He has been featured in national magazines and TV programs and has several upcoming interviews with international publications. 
That game in Oakland was the biggest crowd yet for Krazy George, who had tried the cheer a couple of times at high school rallies. 
A simpler version originated at San Jose State several years earlier. Krazy George would call for the three student sec­tions to chant -one word for each group -"San!" "Jose!" "State!" He would point to each section signaling those stu­dents' turn. 
He also did something similar for the former Colorado Rockies hockey team, using "Go! Rockies! Go!" But it didn't work so well with only 5,000 fans in the seats many nights. 
He knows there are plenty of fans out there who refuse to participate or become grumpy when their view of the game gets briefly blocked. 
"There are always a few peo­ple," he said. 

page 28 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, October 26, 2006 
NBA 

Clippers challenge Lakers as top team in L.A. 
Host ofyoung players turning heads of So. California b-ball fans 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -Elton Brand remembers how it used to be when his lowly Clippers played the mighty Lakers. 
"It was great if we could get a win for us and our fans," Brand recalled. 
How about now? 

"We expect to get a win against anybody in the league," he said. 
And that, of course, includes the Lakers, who have history on their side -but have finished behind the Clippers in each of the past two seasons. 
"We're definitely making our mark," Brand said. "It's two years in a row now. The Lakers' winning tradition, you can't take that away from them, of course." 
The teams share the Staples Center, but there's been a dis­tinct Lakers flavor there since it opened before the 1999-2000 season. And for good reason. 
High above the court on the south wall are the nine NBA championship banners the Lakers have won since moving to Los Angeles in 1960, and another representing the team's five titles in Minneapolis. 
The retired jerseys of former Lakers stars Elgin Baylor, Jerry West, Magic Johnson, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, James Worthy, Wilt Chamberlain and Gail Goodrich hang nearby, along with a microphone honoring longtime announcer Chick Hearn. 
And the Clippers? Nothing. 
Maybe someday. 

"The city's big enough for two teams. Why not share the love?" Clippers guard Cuttino Mobley said. "The Lakers are supposed to get the credit. We're just try­ing to earn ours." 
The teams haven't had much of a rivalry since the Clippers moved to Los Angeles in 1984 because the Lakers have been so dominant, winning 80 of their 103 matchups. But the count is 4-4 the past two years, and with the Clippers on the rise, a rivalry appears to be brewing. 
"Rivalries can't happen until both teams are in the playoffs," Mobley said. 
That happened last spring, and the Clippers did their part to set up the first-ever postsea­son matchup between the teams by beating Denver for their first playoff series victory in 30 years. 
The Lakers led Phoenix 3-1 in their first-round series, but the Suns rallied to win the final three games, thwarting a poten­tial "Hallway Series" at the Staples Center. 
"That would have really been fun," Brand said with a wide grin. 
Like a long, leisurely homes­tand. 
"I was ready," Lakers forward Luke Walton said. "It would have been so much fun, people talking about it. You tried not to think about it because you were in another series." 
In the first five seasons after the Lakers left the Forum, they quickly put their stamp on the new Staples Center, winning three championships and advancing to the NBA Finals four times and the Western Conference semifinals once. 
The Clippers, meanwhile, had a 140-270 record and never made the postseason. 
Their fortunes began to 

reverse when the Lakers traded Shaquille O'Neal to Miami after the 2003-04 season, and sank to 34-48 the following year. The Clippers, meanwhile, showed significant improvement, going from 28-54 to 37-45. 
The Clippers added veteran Sam Cassell before last season, and improved 10 games to 47­35 for the second-best record in the franchise's 36-year history. The Lakers also got better, going 45-37 and returning to the playoffs. 
Regarding the dominance by the Lakers over the years, Cassell smiled and said: "It ain't that way no more, which is good for the city." 
But Reggie Miller, who grew up in Los Angeles, cautioned that because the Clippers' iden­tity has changed, so will the level of their competition. 
"I thought I would never say this, but it is slowly becoming a Clipper town," the former Indiana Pacers star said. "My biggest question is, will they be content? Will complacency seep in? ... Now when they go on the road, the Clippers are starting to sell out. It's not the Clippers of old that were pushovers. Teams will be getting up now for the Clippers." 
While the Lakers have last season's scoring champion Kobe Bryant leading the way, the Clippers have a superstar of their own in Brand, who fin­ished seventh in the NBA Most Valuable Player voting last sea­son. 
The Lakers have the most suc­cessful coach in league history in Phil Jackson. The Clippers have Mike Dunleavy, a top-flight coach in his own right. 
The Lakers have outdrawn the Clippers over the years, with most of their games selling out since Staples Center opened. 

But those numbers are evening out, too. 

The Lakers have sold between 13,000 and 14,000 season tick­ets, keeping some single-game tickets available. The Clippers have sold over 12,000 season tickets -a franchise record. And the average attendance at Lakers games last season was 18,883, and the average atten­dance at Clippers games was 17,376. 
Of course, sitting courtside at the Lakers is still a distinct priv­ilege, with the best seats priced at $2,200. For the Clippers it's less than half that amount. 
And, this being Los Angeles, both teams have their famous fans -Jack Nicholson and Denzel Washington attend most Lakers games; Billy Crystal and Penny Marshall support the Clippers. 
"There's definitely a rivalry now," Walton said. "Even some of my own friends, they're wearing Clipper jerseys. It's fun." 
MLB 

Oakland looks for Orel support 
Athletics interview former pitcher Hershiser for new manager job 
Associated Press 

OAKLAND, Calif. -The Oakland Athletics will inter­view former major league pitcher Orel Hershiser for their managerial opening. 
A's general manager Billy Beane will schedule a meet­ing with Hershiser, currently an ESPN baseball analyst, in Phoenix for sometime during the week of Nov. 6. 
Beane fired fourth-year manager Ken Macha on Oct. 16, two days after Oakland's season ended in a sweep by the wild-card Detroit Tigers in the AL championship series. The A's won a playoff series for the first time since 1990, ending a string of four straight first-round exits from 2000-03. 
Beane plans to take his time hiring the next manager and was still trading phone calls with Frank Thomas' agent, Arn Tellem, on Wednesday about getting something done to keep the 38-year-old slugger. The Big 
Hurt, who led the team with 39 home runs and 114 RBis, has a two-year offer on the table from the A's. 
The 48-year-old Hershiser went 204-150 during an 18­year playing career that included 13 seasons for the Los Angeles Dodgers, includ­ing his final year in 2000. He pitched for the San Francisco Giants in 1998. 
Hershiser rejoined ESPN earlier this year. The former NL Cy Young Award winner was an analyst for ESPN and ABC during the Little League World Series from 2000-01 and was on ESPN's major league Wednesday telecasts during 2001. 
He joined the Texas Rangers in November 2001 as an associate to former general manager John Hart, became pitching coach in June 2002, then was shifted last November to executive assistant to team president Jeff Cogen. Hershiser left the Rangers in February. 
Beane has had a prelimi­

nary phone conversation with Los Angeles Angels pitching coach Bud Black, who was expected to inter­view with the club soon. Black already interviewed with the San Francisco Giants about their manageri­al opening. 
Oakland's internal candi­dates who will have inter­views are bench coach Bob Geren, a close personal friend of Beane, and third­base coach Ron Washington. 
Washington also inter­viewed last week with the Texas Rangers about becom­ipg Buck Showalter's replacement. Washington and Geren both interviewed for the A's opening a year ago when the club briefly cut ties with Macha before bring­ing him back about a week later. Geren was promoted from bullpen coach in 2006. 
The 54-year-old Washington just completed his 11th season with the A's and is popular with the play­ers. 
CRUNCH TIME 


Irish defensive lineman Trevor Laws breaks the huddle during Notre Dame's 31-10 win over Stanford Oct. 7. 
Thursday, October 26, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 29 
NHL 
Los Angeles can't control Wild in 3-1 defeat 

Sedin scores twice in Vancouver's 5-0 win 
Associated Press 
ST. PAUL, Minn. -The Minnesota Wild's stingy defense and goaltending are continuing to fuel the team's franchise-best start. 
Manny Fernandez made 35 saves and Brian Rolston scored two goals to help the Wild defeat the Los Angeles Kings 3­1 on Wednesday night. 
Holston scored his team-high seventh and eighth goals of the season, Todd White had a goal and two assists, and Pierre­Marc Bouchard added three assists for the Wild. 
Northwest Division-leading Minnesota (8-1-0) moved into a tie with Dallas for the Western Conference's best record. Buffalo {9-0-0) is the only team in the NHL with a better mark. 
"Hopefully we can keep going," Wild coach Jacques Lemaire said. "All the points that we're getting could be points that could help us make the playoffs." 
Brian Willsie scored a third­period goal for the Kings, who are 1-5-2 in their past eight 
In the offseason the Wild overhauled their defense, part­ing ways with Filip Kuba, Andrei Zyuzin, Daniel Tjarnqvist and Alex Henry and signing a trio of experienced defensemen with a history of winning -Kim Johnsson, Petteri Nummelin and Keith Carney. 
Fernandez's play also has been a bright spot. No longer splitting time with Dwayne Roloson, who was traded to Edmonton in March, the lOth­year veteran entered Wednesday's game with the third-best goals-against average in the NHL at 1.60. 
"Any defenseman that is on the ice, we have confidence that they're going to do their job," Bouchard said. "And Manny is doing a great job. He's making some key saves." 
Fernandez and the Minnesota defense have been particularly impressive against the power play. 
The Kings were 0-for-7 with the man advantage Wednesday as the Wild increased their NHL-best penalty-killing per­centage to 93.5. 
"They're good. They're confi­dent with the puck," Lemaire 
said of 
Minnesota's 


games. Included in that stretch was  "All the points that we're getting could be  defensemen. "They can make plays. I  
Minnesota's 2-1 overtime victo­ry at Los  points that could help us make the playoffs. "  think they believe in their ability to get  
Angeles on Oct.  the puck out, to  
18.  Jacques Lemaire  move it."  
Dan Cloutier  Wild coach  The Wild also  
stopped  26  have received  
shots  and  balanced scor­ 
dropped to 7­ ing. The team  

10-4 in his career against the played its third consecutive Wild. game without star right winger 
"I played them a lot when I Marian Gaborik, sidelined with was with Vancouver," Cloutier a groin injury, but got a big said. "But they seem to have boost from the line of center more offense this year. And White and wingers Bouchard Manny is playing very well right and Holston -the only line now." coach Lemaire has kept intact 
Minnesota, which was coming this season. off a 2-1 West Coast road trip, On Wednesday, Lemaire actu­improved to 6-0 at home. ally used Pavol Demitra with 
The Wild have gotten off to Bouchard and Rolston for the such a red-hot start in part second line's first time on the because teams have had such a ice, but the coach went with hard time scoring against them. White, Bouchard and Rolston Minnesota has allowed 15 goals for the rest of the game. this season, tied with Dallas for "A little bit surprised, but the fewest in the NHL. Jacques has got his different opinion," Bouchard said. "I guess he wanted to try some­thing else, and it's good that he put us back together." 
The switch paid off quickly, when Rolston got the Wild on the board at 13:02 of the first period. White fired a slap shot from the left circle that Cloutier saved. Rolston gathered the rebound and backhanded the puck off the post and into the net. 
Rolston struck again for Minnesota's second goal, as he sped ahead of the pack, took a long pass from White and knocked in his own rebound from close in 8:34 into the sec­ond period. 
White gave the Wild a 3-0 lead with 5:02 left in the sec­ond. Bouchard collected the puck off the boards and passed it to White, who then beat Cloutier top shelf from the right circle. 
Willsie spoiled Fernandez's shutout bid at 10:53 of the third when he scored his first goal of the season, but the Kings could­n't mount a comeback against the defensive-minded Wild. 
"We're trying to play where the team has to beat five guys before they get a chance," Lemaire said. 
Canucks 5, Blackhawks 0 
The Vancouver Canucks took advantage of the Chicago Blackhawks being without four of their top players. 
Roberto Luongo recorded his first shutout with Vancouver, making 32 saves in a victory over the Blackhawks on Wednesday night. 
Luongo, acquired in a multi­player trade from Florida in the offseason, registered his 28th career shutout. 
"They· worked hard all night and outshot us 18-11 in the sec­ond period," said Luongo said. "Even though the score was a little lopsided they worked for 60 minutes. 
"It's nice to get the shutout," he added, "but I think the main thing for me is to get some wins under my belt." 
us to find out about our team and whether we could play on the road," Vigneault said. "I think in general we did that. We're coming back home with an above-.500 record and it's a good start for us." 
Vigneault was pleased with the Canucks offensive break­through against Chicago. Vancouver hadn't scored more than four goals in a game this season. 
"We finally found a way to score a couple of goals," he said. "Roberto did a good job of shutting them down. Once we took a four-goal lead, it's chal­lenging for the opposition to have to score four goals off of Luongo." 
Havlat is out for two to three weeks with a sprained ankle. Handzus is out with a season­ending knee injury. Khabibulin is out for 10 to 14 days with a 
broken fin­

Henrik Sedin had two goals and an  "Ifyou miss three of  ger. All three were  
assist as the Canucks handed the Blackhawks their third straight loss. Chicago skat­ed without for­wards Martin  your key guys, I don't think any team in this league is going to have the success they would otherwise. "  hurt last weekend. Ruutu, who sprained a knee in the preseason, h a s  
Havlat,  Michael  resumed  
Handzus  and  Henrik Sedin  practicing  
Tuomo Ruutu, and  Canucks center  and  may  
goalie  Nikolai  return next  
Khabibulin.  week.  

Sedin's goals were his first Chicago goalie Brian Boucher this season. stopped 26 shots. 
"If you miss three of your key "Our defense wasn't as good guys, I don't think any team in as it has been and our goaltend­this league is going to have the ing was average," Blackhawks success they would otherwise," coach Trent Yawney said. Sedin said. "We knew if we "We've got to find a away to nip could match their work ethic, this as fast as possible. No one we'd have a good chance to is going to feel sorry for you." win. Cooke opened the scoring 
"I've been shooting a lot, but 4:54 into the first period when the puck wasn't going in," he he spun and backhanded in a added. "So it was nice to get a rebound of Mattias Ohlund's couple tonight." shot just past Boucher's out­
Matt Cooke, Brendan stretched glove and inside the Morrison and Taylor Pyatt also right post. scored for the Canucks, who Morrison's deflection on the completed a five-game road trip power play with 3:02 left in the with a 3-2-0 record. Daniel period gave Vancouver a 2-0 Sedin had three assists. lead. Positioned at the left edge 
Vancouver coach Alain of the crease, Morrison redi­Vigneault, whose team has rected Ohlund's shot from the played nine of its first 11 games right point in mid-air, about a on the road, was more pleased foot off the ice. that his team is off to a 6-4-1 Sedin stretched the lead to 3­start. 0 at 3:41 of the second when his 
"These nine of 11 games on 45-foot wrist shot fooled the road were going to permit Boucher. 


page 30 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 26, 2006 
ANNA AMtii::H~lAI 

Irish center Mark Van Guilder faces off against Maverick forward Zach Harrison in Notre Dame's win over MSU Oct. 12. 
G-word 
continued from page 32 
adjust to the dark, but no final destination can be seen along the horizon. 
Which path do you take? Which path leads to the most desirable ending? 
Well, Notre Dame has cho-. sen the path to the right, and that speck along the horizon may very well be a lucrative tournament finish -be it CCHA or NCAA or both. 
The team refuses to buy into the hype that has surrounded them in the days since they plowed through New England. They don't even think they are a great team, because, of course, it's only October and there are another 32 games to go. 
The euphoria and 'crazy atmosphere', in senior alter-
Big East 
continued from page 32 
on Sept. 10. Notre Dame took 1 7 shots -nine fewer than the 26 it took the first time around -while the Blue Demons man­aged 10 total shots Wednesday compared with just four in the teams' first meeting. 
DePaul's new strategy likely had much to do with the shot differential between the two games. In September, the Blue Demons attempted to run with the Irish and play a more open style of soccer. Wednesday, DePaul had no illusions of how it matched up, and stacked the box defensively. 
Not surprisingly, the Irish were not caught ofT guard. ·"We pretty much knew they were going to put 

all eleven players back in their own half," Irish coach  "I thought our guys pretty much shut  the game." Ultimately, Notre Dame did  maturely to avoid the upset. They played smart and superior soccer from whistle to whistle,  
Bobby Clark said. "We knew we were going to pos­ down any real chances."  what it had to do as the favorite­play smart soccer  like they did the last time they played DePaul and like they have done for most of the sea­ 
sibly turn the ball over in their half,  Bobby Clark  and prevent an inferior opponent  son. For most of the game, it  
and we [couldn't]  Irish coach  from catching  seemed DePaul's main strategy  

get frustrated." 
DePaul seem­ingly banked hopes of extending its season on shutting down an Irish offense whose 40 goals lead the Big East and picking up the decisive goal by converting a turnover into a productive breakaway or putting a shot in off of a set piece. 
While the Blue Demons did nate captain Wes O'Neill's words, of the post-win locker room barely held over to the next day, when the team crushed a competent Providence squad. The Irish are too good of a team to allow a slip up to happen -but good luck trying to get them to call themselves the g-word. 

They would much rather be called a consistent team than a good team. They know the teams that think they are good will eventually get lost in the brilliance of their own accom­plishments and emerge dazed and confused at the end of the road without a sense of direc­tion. 
They would rather remain in the dark and win -one game at a time. 
Irish coach Jeff Jackson knows this and believes that consistency is the only litmus test for a strong program, that winning weekend after week-
limit Notre Dame's offense "I thought the first ten min­attack --for a while at least -utes was just brilliant," Clark and did manage more shots on said. goal than they had previously, Despite DePaul's bunkering, none of their shots ever threat­the Irish were patient on offense ened Notre Dame goalkeeper like Clark had instructed them Chris Cahill. to be before 
"The shots that the match. they had weren't "The shots that [DePaul] While Joseph 
really quality had weren't really chances," Cahill 
quality chances. It was
said. "It was a lot 
of balls that just a lot ofballs that just dribbled through." dribbled through. " Cahill credited the Irish backline 
Chris Cahill 
for making his 
Irish keeper 
night a relatively easy one. "I thought our 
end is the only way to know whether a hockey team should be ranked, receiving votes or sitting unranked in the sin bin. 
It is the first time since sen­ior captain T.J. Jindra's fresh­man year, a season that ended with a NCAA Tournament appearance, that he can recall the Irish holding to such a stoic and no-nonsense philoso­phy. 
"We beat them on Friday, and we were happy," Jindra said. "But we took care of business, and we were already looking towards Saturday. That's the key to being a good team." 
And Irish coach Jeff Jackson hopes the entire team has adopted that attitude. 
He said that the coaching staff has prepared the team mentally for the obstacles that are generated by big wins, but it is only a matter of time to determine if it has worked. 
"We've made really good strides in a lot of areas," he said. "This is one that we haven't had before. This is one area that we haven't had to deal with yet." 
It will take several week­ends and more likely severitl months to see how the Irish deal with their newfound celebrity, but they are headed in the right direction. That shapeless horizon may, six months from now, brighten and reveal a hard-earned title. 
And if it does, Jackson, Jindra, O'Neill and the rest will be the first to say that cursed g-word. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd. edu 
Lapira's goal in the 41st minute opened up the field for Notre Dame and Nate Norman's goal in the 56th ended the scoring, 

Belles 
continued from page 32 
7-0, 0-14-0) did not control the ball until three minutes into the game, but by that time they were already in a 1-0 hole. 
Freshman Katie Wehrli got the scoring started when she dribbled past Thunder goalie Vicki Bearman and buried the shot for her second goal of the season.· 
Seven different players were able to find the back of the net against the Tri­
State keeper, Courtney heat­
"[Courtney] has always
with striker ed up in the sec­
been a tough player for 
Micki Hediqger ond half with as the only p'Iay­us. We are going to another assist er with multiple on a long pass
miss her along with the 
goals. The fresh­to Justine
rest ofour seniors. " 
man scored Higgins who fin­twice in a three-ished the play in minute span to Caryn Mackenzie the lower left end the first corner of the
Belles coach 
half. 
"She had a nice game," Mackenzie said. "She has improved a little bit every game and she has really showed some great speed for 
us." 
Bedinger raced past two Thunder defenders for her first goal after receiving a long pass from Sarah Budd. With just under four minutes left in the half, she got loose again and beat Bearman on a rebound front of the net. The goal gave Saint Mary's a 5-0 edge head­ing into the break. 
Although Bearman gave up eight goals to the Belles, she had 21 saves in the game against 41 shots by the Belles. 
The offensive onslaught slowed at the beginning of the 
DePaul 
continued from page 32 
patient because we knew they were going to put all their play­ers back in their half," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "We just had to keep playing, keep moving the ball, and we did a good job of that." 
It wasn't until the 41st minute that the Irish were finally able to break through the DePaul defense. Junior midfielder Kurt Martin dispossessed Blue Demon defender John Partyka and 
threaded  a  "He comes offthe bench  have his two  
through-ball between two DePaul defenders into the path of an  maybe because there's a little more space when he comes into the game, but  time all-Big East midfield­er back for the postse a­ 
onrushing Joseph  what he does with the  son.  
Lapira. keeper  DePaul Brian  ball is magic."  "It's terrific having Ian  
Visser  blocked  [Etherington]  
Lapira's  initial  Bobby Clark  back," Clark  
attempt, but he  Irish coach  said. "It gives  
collected  the  us  that little  

rebound and fired the ball into bit of depth as we can rotate the back of the net. guys throughout the midfield." 
Martin -who had two shots With Wednesday's win in the to go along with his assist -books, Clark already has his provided a spark off the bench team preparing for its remain­for the Irish, consistently beat­ing games. ing DePaul defenders with his "From now on, every game quick turns and deft passing. we play is going to be against a 
"[Martin] had a fabulous good team," Clark said. "This is assist," Clark said. "He comes a pretty level-headed group. We off the bench maybe because just have to do a good job of there's a little more space when taking it one game at a time." he comes into the game, but The Irish will travel to what he does with the ball is Piscataway, N.J., next to play magic. He's an excellent play­Rutgers in the quarterfinals of er." the Big East tournament. 
Notre Dame doubled its advantage in the 55th minute Contact Greg Arbogast at on a play that started when garbogas@nd.edu 
second half as both teams sent 
out only 10 players because of 
injuries suffered to a short­
handed Tri-State team. 
Even with only 10 on the 

field, the Belles continued to 
move the ball well against Tri­
State, but did not find the back 
of the net again until the 70th 
minute when senior Colleen 
Courtney found Mandy 
Thomson on a first-touch pass 
off a throw-in. 
"[Courtney] has always been 

a tough player for us," 
Mackenzie said. "We are going . to miss her along with the rest of our seniors." 
net. She also put 

the exclamation point on her final regular sea­son game scoring the team's eighth goal with just under five minutes remaining, 
With the win Saint Mary's finished tied for third in the conference with Hope College. The Belles lost the head-to­head match-up so they were given the fourth seed in the tournament coming up this weekend. 
Saint Mary's will face Kalamazoo at home this Saturday in first round play. The game time hasn't been announced yet. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
senior midfielder Ian Etherington played the ball toward the end line. Lapira ran onto the pass and drove a low hard cross across the goal­mouth. Senior midfielder Nate Norman fired the cross home to notch his second goal of the season. 
"It was nice to see Norman get that insurance goal as it took some pressure off down the stretch," Clark said. 
· Etherington played only his second match since leaving Notre Dame's game against Pittsburgh Sept. 23 with a bone bruise. Clark is glad to 
guys pretty much shut down any real chances," he said. "It was a tough game for them. Really, they had to stay tuned in because we played in their half 
for the majority of the Irish had the game won before that. 

The only team on the field Wednesday night capable of beating Notre Dame was Notre Dame, and the Irish played 
lightning in a bot­

tle and stealing a victory. While facing a team of DePaul's caliber could lead many teams to come out flat, the Irish set the tone from the start, establishing their superi­ority and not allowing the Blue Demons to move the ball into the Notre Dame half for the first 10 minutes. 
was to get a lucky break, and more likely than noll! it was beaten before Notre Dame ever scored a goal. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily th'ose of The Observer. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd. edu 


Thursday, October 26, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 31 

ALEC WHITE

JOCULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 

CROISSANTWORLD JUMBLE 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
AM DAM 
[IJ I I 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved.  
BEDIP j  
I I rtCARCIT jIJ [www.jumble.com CLOPEM j  tJ I I  

Answer: 

A[ X I I J[II I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: EXACT FEINT ACCEDE LIQUIDYesterday's 
Answer: When the bridegroom got his tuxedo, he was-FIT TO BE "TIED" 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirlon 
WHAT THE: HOBO FE:L-T L-IKE: WHE:N HE: GOT CAUGHT IN THE DOWNPOUR. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
Note: The four unclued answers are synonymous. 
ACROSS 29 Big inits. in 56 Oscar bowling (entree)
1 Part of the head 32 Crucifix 58 Villain
5 Slip 33 Whup 59 Nix
9~Bay, 
Sunshine 34 Shire dweller 60 Automaker Skyway locale Ferrari
36 See note 14 Foreign friend 
61 Cafe cup 
39 Like a bad 62 Shortly
15 Child's plea night's sleep 16 Night hunter 40 Lemon or peach 63 A.A.A. options 
17 Novelist 41 Java neighbor 
Mae Brown 42 Scotland's Firth DOWN 18 Roughly of 1 Jolt 
43 Constraining 2 Leave off 19 "The Winslow 
Boy" 45 Blend 3 Beside screenwriter/ 
46 Actor Willem 4 Heard about 
director David 47 Presidential 5 Shrew 
20 See note 
nickname 6 Baedeker of the 23 Nancy Drew's 48 See note Baedeker travel beau guides54 Eponym of a24 Zigs 

physics lab near 7 See note 25 It may be sweet Chicago a Circuit or hard 
55 Novello components 28 River to the Award for 9 Optimist's focus 30 Music's 38 QB's cry 49 Sci-fi princess North Sea songwriters Vanilli
1 o Relatives of 44 Chocolate 50 Start of a 
Moors maker
31 Army post near Cockney toast
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
11 Actress Rogers Mt. Holly, N.J. 
45 "Aladdin" 51 "And bed" 
'lli+P+r+I~P"I 12 Meter reader? 33 "L'chaim," monkey 
-r+;;+,+,""!-1 13 Ones heading literally 46 Curses 52 Small change for the hills? 35 "Gilligan's 47 Aircraft parking 53 Skyline
21 Comparative Island" star spot obscurer 
suffix 37 Table 48 [Fizzle) 57 Acapulco article 
22 Giggle 
25 Tenant farm, in Britain For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
26 Aegean region 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 27 A bit crazy crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 28 Auxiliary service Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
member, once Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
-:+-:::+:+:::=-! 29 Presidential 
solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords.
middle name 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----­
Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ ZiP~----­
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Sara Lumholdt, 21; Tracy Nelson, 42; Helen Reddy, 64; Michael Soltis, 34 
Happy Birthday: So much can be accomplished if you can control your envy, jealousy and anger this year. Forget the past and start thinking progressively. This is your time to get things moving, and those who love you should understand that and support your actions. Your numbers are 16, 22, 25, 33, 39, 40 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You need to discover who you are and what you can do. Take a different approach and let your creative imagination flow. Luck is with you, and money will come your way.***** TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Your stubbornness will lead to difficulties in both your personal and professional life. Admit you are wrong and do something nice for the ones you love. Less said and more done will keep you out oftrouble. ** ­GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can learn by watching what others do, and that will keep you on top of what needs to be done. Work at making yourself the best that you can be. Love is in the picture. * * * * CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't take any chances when it comes to money. Lending or borrowing will not turn out well Loss is evident, but ifyou are smart and invest wisely you can secure your future. * • • LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't make rash decisions, especially in your personal life. Your emotions will lead you down a hurtful path. This is not the day to discuss your concerns if you want to win or make your point be known. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can expect to have problems with your boss or an officer if you break the rules. You will want to do everything fast today. and that may lead to mistakes. Stick to what you know and do best. A void gossip at all costs. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Financial matters should be dealt with in a conservative manner. An unusual business deal must be considered. Moderation and simplicity will lead you down the right path.**** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Focus on the task at hand. You will have plenty oftime to deal with other matters once you have accomplished what really needs to be done. Don't expect to get a lot of help from your partner today. •• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll be the center of attention at any event you attend. Your worldly views and ability to tell a story will create interest. Make sure you get any offers in writing. Empty promises are apparent. ••• •• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Follow through with all the little odds and ends that need to be tidied up. A change in location will lead to meeting someone unique. Changes with a friendship you are involved in will be necessary. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Problems with partnerships will be mind­boggling. Avoid a discussion that will lead to a point of no return. Take a little time for yourself to figure out what to do. • * PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't trust anyone to do your job for you. You will be misunderstood by those who want you to fail. Don't bother with people who are not on your team, but instead build a stronger bond with those who think the same way as you.*** 
Birthday Baby: You are dedicated, loyal and insightful. You can see the big picture, are inquisitive and won't give up until you get what you want. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fon, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, October 26, 2006 
page 32 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Falls nan1ed Big East preseason honorable mention 
Devendorf, as voted by the 16 Big edges he's one of the more publi­and I don't want to graduate with Gray was named preseason Big
By BOB GRIFFIN 

East head coaches. cized players in the conference. that feeling." East Player of the Year. 
Sports Writer Falls averaged 13.8 points per He just wants to win. Eleven players were named to 
game his junior year while setting "I think we're going to make the preseason All-Big East team, Notes: 
Irish guard Colin Falls, after a Notre Dame single season [the NCAA Tournament]. I don't including Pittsburgh forward + Notre Dame was picked No. three years of becoming one of record with 3-point field goals want to be on the cusp again," Aaron Gray, Connecticut forward 11 in the Big East preseason the top sharpshooters in the (102). His 32-point game against said Falls on Media Day Oct. 11. Jeff Adrien, DePaul forward coaches poll behind Pittsburgh, country and establishing Notre Seton Hall on Feb. 18 was a "We're going to have to prove Wilson Chandler, DePaul guard Georgetown, Syracuse, Dame's 3-point offensive identity career high. ourselves, it's easy to say it, but Sammy Mejia, Georgetown for­Marquette, Connecticut, in the Big East last season, was Falls is a career 40.3 percent 3-when it's all said and done, I ward Jeff Green, Georgetown Louisville, Villanova, DePaul, St. named All-Big East preseason point shooter (232-of-576) and an think we're going to be picked on center Roy Hibbert, Louisville for­John's and Providence. honorable mention Wednesday. 82.9 percent free throw shooter that Sunday. ward Juan Palacios, Marquette West Virginia, Cincinnati, 
The Irish senior is one of three (141-of-170) in 91 career games. "Our mindset going into last guard Dominic James, St. John's Rutgers, Seton Hall and South players to receive this distinction But for Falls, the goal heading year was get better every day and forward Lamont Hamilton, Florida round out the rankings. alongside Louisville junior for­into the season isn't to set records try to get to the Big East tourna­Syracuse forward Terrance ward David Padgett and Syracuse or impress people around the ment. Nobody on this team has Roberts and Villanova forward Contact Bob Griffin at sophomore guard Eric league, even though he acknowl-been to the NCAA Tournament Curtis Sumpter. rgriffi3@nd.edu 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Starting off on the right foot 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 
The result was never serious­ly in doubt Wednesday night at Alumni Field as No. 8 Notre Dame efficiently dispatched of DePaul 2-0 to advance to the second round of the Big East tournament. 
The Irish outshot the Blue Demons 17-10, and the ball was in the DePaul half for nearly the entire evening. Despite its advantage in posses­sion, Notre Dame had trouble creating solid chances as DePaul seemed content to play defense, often bringing all 11 players back behind midfield. 
"Before the garrie, my mes­sage to the team was to be 
see DEPAUL/ page 30 


The Blue Demons didn't have a chance, and they probably knew it as much as anybody. DePaul, 3-0 losers at Alumni Field earlier in the season and arguably the worst team to advance to the Big East tournament, didn't fare well in what will likely be its last game of the season. 
On paper, Notre Dame's performance against the Blue Demons in Wednesday's 2-0 win was less convincing than it was when DePaul last visited South Bend 

Eric Retter 
Associate Sports Editor 
see BIG EAST/page 30 
HOCKEY COMMENTARY 

Newly ranked Irish refuse to say 'g-word' 
Yeah, they beat No. 1 Boston hadn't come upon in more than College. And, 
two years. yeah, they're On the left, the path is broad, now No. 11 well-lit and slick with freshly in the coun­watered ice. Loudspeakers spit try. praise so loud that one cannot 
"Big deal," hear anything else, and it is so they say sar­brilliant that little can be seen castically. beyond the first dozen yards. 
With the 7-On the right, the path is nar­1 trouncing row, dim and the ice shavings of those Kyle Cassity pile up high enough around Jesuits from divots in the sheet that they 
Chestnut Hill Sports Writer could be confused for snow­and a nearly drifts in the Yukon. It runs identical 6-1 encore over those straight and it is possible to Franciscans from Providence stare for miles once the eyes the next night, Irish hockey reached a fork in the road it see G-WORD/page 30 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles shake down the Thunder 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's ended its regu­lar season on a high note Wednesday afternoon with an 8-0 shutout of Tri-State. 
"It wasn't an ideal game right before the conference tournament, but I guess it was good to get a little confi­dence booster," said Belles coach Caryn Mackenzie. 
The Belles (5-8-1, 4-3-1 MIAA) wasted no time in establishing the tempo of the game, controlling the ball on offense for the first nine min­utes of play. The Thunder (0­
KRISTY KING/The Observer 

Belles midfielder Katy Durkin, right, challenges a Briton see BELLES/page 30 defender in Saint Mary's 2-11oss to Albion Sept. 6. 


MlB 

MlB 
MU3 

Current ESPN base­

Oakland superfan 
Game 4 of the World 
Yankees shortstop 
Italy granted Mario
Wild 3 

"Krazy George" 
Series between St. Louis 
Derek Jeter and Phillies 
Andretti its highest
ball analyst Ore!
Kings 1 
Hershiser interviews for 

Henderson celebrates 
and Detroit postponed 
first baseman Ryan 
honor for his contribu­

Stingy defense and 
Oakland's vacant mana­

the 25th anniversary of 
until tonight because of 
Howard receive the 
tion to sport and Italian­

good goal tending lead 
gerial position. 

the Wave. 
heavy rain. 

Hank Aaron Award. 
American heritage. 

to Minnesota's win. 
page 29 
page 27
page 28 
page 26 

page 23 
page 21 








