
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Police eject season-high 48 people 
Alcohol-related offenses prompt action at game 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Editor 
Ejections spiked at the seniors' last home football game Saturday, as police forced 48 people to leave the stadium for intoxication or alcohol­related offenses, officials said. 
"Unfortunately, a number of peo­ple -more than in past games ­drank alcohol to the point of intoxi­cation and were either not admitted to the stadium or ejected from the stadium. Some were arrested," said Phil Johnson, associate director of Notre Dame Security/Police. "These people let alcohol and intoxication get in the way of their safety and their fun -and it prevented them from enjoying a great football game." 
Though the number of ejections is the highest this season, it is far less than the 181 ejections police made at last year's final home football game. 
Johnson said that since this was the last game of the season, officers were particularly concerned about the "safety of those whose celebra­tion of the day included consumption of alcohol." 
Twenty-eight arrest tickets were issued to adults for violations of liquor laws, Johnson said. Ten peo­ple were aLc;o denied entry to the sta­dium for intoxication and were released to "a responsible adult." 
Three people were arrested at the stadium for public intoxication, Johnson said. 
Despite the noticeable increase in the amount of marshmallows thrown 
see ARRESTS/page 4 

75 band members will travel to USC 
Unscheduled trip made at Charlie Weis' request; group will leave Saturday at 8 a.m. 
sist primarily of members who play easily heard instruments ­mostly brass and percussion ­and of the most experienced and dedicated juniors and seniors, said band vice president Michelle Manrique. · 
Last month, band director Ken Dye received a personal call from Weis to ask if it was possible to send part of the band with the football team to the USC game, Dwyer said. Junior and senior band members were encouraged to apply, Dwyer said, and those with the most seniority and loud­est instruments were selected. 
"We're not going to have fun. We're going to give our team the edge," said senior drum major Brad Fleming. 
The band will fly out at 8 a.m. 
see BAND/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERYER.COM 
University seeks out newVP 
Position will focus on research, technology 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame has launched a nationwide search for a vice pres­ident for research, a newly creat­ed position to direct the University's efforts to become a top research institution, said University Provost Tom Burish. 
"The Office of the Vice President for Research will focus on helping to create and imple­ment a strategy that will strength­en the research efforts at Notre Dame," Burish said. 
The new vice president will work with various offices, deans and department chairs to strengthen the support of research programs at the University, he said. 
"We are looking for a person who, himself or herself, has a research record, who is an accomplished scholar," Burish said. 
The person who is picked to fill this position will be someone "who can work well with the fac­ulty, who is willing to work toward ambitious goals and who has an appreciation for the many areas of the University that can reach toward this ambitious goal," Burish said. 
Burish created an ad hoc com­mittee on graduate studies and research in November 2005 to recommend the best way to organize the offices that oversee graduate studies and research. In a letter to Frank Incropera, dean of the College of Engineering and 
see VP/page 4 _ 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Mooney speaks at group meeting 
College president asks members about SMC's strengths, weaknesses 
By LIZ HARTER 
News Writer 
College President Carol Ann Mooney visited the Saint Mary's Board of Governance meeting Monday to discuss the College's strengths and weaknesses. 
Mooney asked BOG mem­bers a series of questions to gather information and help assess what the College's pri­orities should be for the next five years. 
In the past, Mooney held four question-and-answer sessions in Vander Vennet Theater for students, but not many people attended. 
see MOONEY/page 4 


Can1pus empties as Thanksgiving nears 
By EILEEN DUFFY Assistant News Editor 
During a much-needed aca­demic respite this Thanksgiving, Notre Dame students are offering gratitude for family, friends, food and two-and-a-half inch television screens. 
"I would say I've never needed a break more," said sophomore Nicholas Krienke. "It's just the daily grind, I guess. I'm feeling it more than ever." 
Morrissey sophomore Andrew Parnell was sneaking out early, walking to catch the shuttle to Chicago's O'Hare airport Monday afternoon. He was planning to fly to Washington D.C., where his two older brothers have recently pur­chased a home, then carpool with them back to their hometown of Rockville, Md., on Thursday ­where big plans await them. 
Thanksgiving Day begins bright and early at the Parnell home, with the family running the annu­al 5K Rockville Turkey Chase. Back at home, Parnell said, he and his three siblings will help their mom cook before the rela­tives arrive in the early afternoon. Playing a football game or two in the backyard, plus watching one on TV, is in order, he said. 
"The extended family comes to our house for Thanksgiving because it's our holiday," Parnell said. "We're really family-oriented ... I love Thanksgiving." 
And for the students lucky enough to have scored tickets to 
see BREAK/page 4 


By JOHN PAUL WITT News Writer 
On a mission to help the Fighting Irish bring home a vic­tory, 75 members of the Notre Dame Band will perform at the Notre Dame-USC football game Saturday -a trip planned at the request of 
See Also

head football 
"NO Club

coach Charlie 
Weis. welcomes fans" Band officials 
page3

did not comment on funding for the group's last-minute trip to Los Angeles, but assistant band director Lawrence Dwyer said they were "delighted" to be able to make the trip. 
The USC-bound band will con­
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, November 21, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Did you knovv? 
Since Thanksgiving break is soon upon us, I decided to do a little research into the history and origin of this famous holiday. I was interested to sec what the pilgrims ate at their first feast, where it was held and Kate Fenlon other facts of 
this nature. In the PhotographerUnited States, Thanksgiving is celebrated on the fourth Sunday in November. It was originally held for three days in 1621 in Plymouth, Mass. It is known as Harvest Festival in the United Kingdom and is celebrated at the end of the Harvest Festival but is not as well celebrated as Christmas or Easter. , It did not become an actual holiday until1863. Abraham Lincoln was the president who decided that Thanksgiving should fall on the last Thursday of the month. But Dwight D. Eisenhower moved the holiday to the next to last Thursday of the month in an effort to create a longer shopping sea­son for Christmas. In terms of food, the pilgrims were not consuming the modern dishes we do today such as turkey, corn and beans. They did eat venison and wild fowl. They also did not use forks to eat their food -rather they used spoons, knives and fingers. Regarding the use of salt and pepper: Salt would be available on the table but pepper would be used solely in cooking. Also, what an individual. would eat depended on his or her social standing. The most important people received the best food. Individuals never asked for food to be passed -they simply ate what was in front of them. Unfortunately, the pilgrims did not consume any pie or sweets after dinner because the small supply of sugar they brought over on the Mayflower had diminished by the time Thanksgiving had rolled around. They also did not have an oven to bake it in ifthey did have the necessary ingredients. In regards to modern Thanksgiving in 2005, the six states that produce the most amounts of turkeys were Minnesota, North Carolina, Arkansas, Virginia, Missouri and California. Approximately 90 percent of Americans consume turkey on Thanksgiving and only 50 percent eat it on Christmas. Ham and pasta are popular alternatives to the traditional Thanksgiving feast. Compared to the early Thanksgiving, adults are generally also served first while children eat second and are often placed at another table in a separate room. One would think that the United States consumes the most turkey per capita a year, but it is actually Israel. After comparing the similarities and differences between the historic and modern Thanksgivings it was interest­ing to see how it evolved and became 
one ofthe·most popular holidays of the year. Students will be traveling to all different parts of the U.S. whether by 
air, car or bus. But the best way to start off the holiday season will be a win on Saturday in the infamous Coliseum. After that, it's only 30 days till Christmas. 
Contact Kate Fenlon at kfenloO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and suives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can .correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S THE BEST PART ABOUT A NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL GAME? 



Jim Murphy  Chris Harrington  Anastasia Kaloydis  Jonathan Boyle  Christina Luchetta  John Henderson  
freshman Dillon  junior Dillon  sophomore LeMans  sophomore Fisher  sophomore off campus  senior offcampus  
"Doing push-ups. ,  "Spooning with my roommates for three hours. ,  ,''The wave.  "Painting the helmets."  "Hearing Anastasia getting yelled at for trying to start the wave. "  "Tailgating and marshmallow fights to the point where you get stuck to the  




Missouri's Tightwad bank to close 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -A small-town bank that drew $2.2 million in deposits from around the country because of its unusual name will close Jan. 31. 
The Tightwad Bank opened on a shoestring 22 years ago in the small com­munity along Missouri 7 halfway between Clinton and Warsaw. 
Now, UMB Bank Warsaw, which operates the bank, is cutting costs and has urged customers to do their banking at its branches in Clinton and Warsaw. 
Officials at UMB, a sub­sidiary of UMB Financial Corp, would not elaborate on the decision. 
iPod glow leads to lost mushroom picker 
CORVALLIS, Ore. -An iPod screen glowing in the middle of the night from thick underbrush led res­cuers to a mushroom picker lost in the woods. 
The search leader said Pini Nou, 25, of Vancouver, Wash., was on his first out­ing and got separated from his mother, an experienced mushroom hunter. At night­fall, she called Benton County authorities for help. 
Nou used hi<> ceQ phone to describe the landscape to rescuers as best he could in the darkness, said Peggy Peirson, acting county emer­geney management coordi­nator. They finally located him after 1 a.m. Friday when a member of a search and rescue team saw the light from the iPod, she said. 
Nou, lacking a flashlight, had been using the music device for light, Peirson said. She said the underbrush was so thick it took rescuers more than 20 minutes to reach Nou once they saw the glow. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THANKSGIVING 
a:: 
IJJ 
:::c 
!;: 
IJJ 
3: 
....I 

~ 
< 
(,) 


0 HIGH 55 HIGH 43 HIGH 58 HIGH 55
..... 

LOW 52 LOW 40 LOW 45 LOW 45 

bench.'' 
IN BRIEF 
Faculty, staff, students and the general public are all invited to watch Chicago artist Esperanza Gama construct this year's altar for the annual Day of the Dead celebration at the Snite Museum between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. today. The altar will be dedicated to those who died crossing the United States-Mexico border. Admission is free. 
A colloquium on "Simplifying the Nuclear Many-Body Problem with the Renormalization Group," featuring Dr. Scott Bogner of Ohio State University, will take place today between 2 
p.m. and 3:30 in room 127 of the Nieuwland Science Hall. 
At 8 p.m. today in the Reyes Organ and Choral Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, the department of music will honor its patron saint Cecilia on her feast day with a concert of sacred music. Notre Dame faculty and students will perform a program featuring Gregorian chant as well as the works of Henry Purcell and Lou Harrison. 
The "Quantam Gravity" colloquium, schQduled to take place Wednesday and feature Dr. Lee Smolin of the Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics in Ontario, Canada, has been postponed until Jan. 17, 2007. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

Atlanta 48 I 33 Boston 46 I 33 Chicago 50 I 28 Denver 761 37 Houston 70 I 36 Los Angeles 81 I 54 Minneapolis 44 I 33 New York 51 I 35 Philadelphia 50 I 35 Phoenix 84 I 56 Seattle 48 I 42 St. Louis 60 I 28 Tampa 60 I 41 Washington 47 I 32 
Tuesday, November 21, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

ND club vvelco111es fans 
Alumni Association aids students traveling to USC 
By BECKY HOGAN 
News Writer 
Irish fans will be in Trojan terri­tory for Saturday's football game against USC, and the Notre Dame Club of Orange County (NDCOC) has big plans to welcome them ­including a YIP-packed pep rally and even a Thanksgiving feast. 
"We've got people coming in for the game from across the nation as early as [Monday]. ... Even though there are fewer tickets, the excitement gen­erated by the game [has caused] some Brown will speak at the rally, and former Notre Dame football play­ers such as Derrick Mayes, Rick DiBernardo, Joey Getherall, Brock Williams and Shane Walton are expected to make an appear­ance. Alumni Association Director Chuck Lennon will be the emcee and Roberts expects between 800 and 1,000 people to attend the pep rally. 
On Sunday morning, the Club of Orange County will host a Communion Breakfast with Charlie Weis, and the event, Roberts said, already has more than 700 
confirmed guests. 
"Coordination is 

people to come out NDCOC will provide even without tick­critical ... The charter buses from ets," said Tony Alumni the Anaheim Marriott 
Roberts, president of to the Coliseum.
Association has 

NDCOC. Roberts said the Even if fans aren't done great things Notre Dame Alumni able to snag tickets Association has been
to help us get

for the game, the essential in helping
guest speakers." 

NDCOC has activities the NDCOC plan planned for the many of the events entire game week­Tony Roberts for the game week­
end. High anticipa­
NDCOC president end. 
tion for the match­up prompted club members to be "more creative" with their pro­gramming, Roberts said. 
The Club made arrangements with the Anaheim Marriott to reserve more than 1,000 hotel rooms -about 650 more rooms than the last time Notre Dame played at USC. The rooms are offered at a reduced rate of $79 for those who signed up for it through the club's Web site. 
The NDCOC even arranged with the Anaheim Marriot to have a Thanksgiving meal available for fans who will be arriving before Thursday, and on Friday they will host a pep rally at the hotel. 
Reisman Trophy winner Tim "Coordination is 

critical. ...The Alumni 
Association has done great things to help us get guest speakers," Roberts said. 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore will also be setting up shop at USC for eager fans who want to purchase Notre Dame merchandise. Manager Kathy McJowan said bookstore products are usually sold at about three away games each year. 
"It has been a tremendous year for ND products everywhere, and alumni love to see the bookstore," McJowan said. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 
Students can use ne-w online service to secure bowl tickets 
ByJENMETZ News Writer 
As winter begins to fall on Notre Dame's campus, many Irish fans are dreaming of heading to warmer climates -New Orleans, Miami, Pasadena or Phoenix, to be exact. 
Those cities play host to the BCS Bowl games, and as of now, Notre Dame's chances of playing in one of them are high. Through TicketReserve, students can act now to make sure they're at the game to cheer on the team -and enjoy the weather. 
"The TicketReserve is a rev­olutionary and fun idea that allows the average fan admit­tance into huge sporting events at affordable prices," said Liz Flannery of Clutch Media and Marketing in Harrison, NY 
According to Clutch Media's press release for TicketReserve, "the Allstate Sugar Bowl, Fed-Ex Orange Bowl, Rose Bowl and Tostitos Fiesta Bowl have always been among the toughest post-sea­son tickets in sports." 
"Our main goal is for fans to see their teams," said Andy Leach, president of TicketReserve. 
With the TicketReserve service, students can reserve tickets by purchasing a FanForward pass in what Leach calls a "fan-to-fan mar­ket." 
Available packages include the stand-alone National Championship Game in Phoenix, BCS All-Access and Elite Non-BCS All-Access. 
If Notre Dame advances to a Bowl Game that falls under the FanForward package a student purchases, tickets to that game are then made available to them at face value prices. 
Initally, FanForward pack­age prices are "as low as $10 to $20, and increase or decrease as the respective for­tunes of college football teams rise and fall during the 2006 season," according to the press release. 
As of Monday, the with the Bowls themselves [. .. sol tickets are reserved before the market opens," Leach said. 

After purchase, FanForwards can be sold on the TicketReserve market until the BCS pairings show in December. If unwanted FanForwards are not sold at this point, the initial invest­ment is lost. 
"Every year college football fans across the country yearn to attend elite bowl games of their favorite teams," Rick Harmon, CEO of TicketReserve, 
lowest price for said. "Now, this
'This partnership 
a FanForward innovative part­
is unique and
pass for Notre nership can Dame in the exciting and will reward those N a t i o n a I dedicated and
provide a 
Championship passionate fans
tremendous value 
Game was $90 in a fun and and $110 for a for college football affordable way." BCS All-Access P a u I
fans." 
pass. Hoolahan, CEO The addition-of the Allstate 
Paul Hoolahan
al face value Sugar Bowl, cost of a Bowl CEO Allstate Sugar promoted the Game ticket is online service ­
Bowl 
listed as "TBD" with an esti­mated price range of $95-220 on the TicketReserve Web site, www.theticketreserve.com. 
A maximum of eight FanForward passes can be purchased per team per household. No specific seat­ing assignment is given to FanForward pass holders, but reserved seats will be located next to each other in the "seating zone" listed on the Web site for a given event. 
With a FanForward pur­chase, tickets are guaranteed due to "a direct agreement 

which offers dis­tinct advantages to ticket auctions or scalping. 
"This partnership is unique and exciting and will provide a tremendous value for col­lege football fans," Hoolahan said. "The TicketReserve has a great reputation for servic­ing fans for large-scale sport­ing events, and we have great confidence in their ability to do so again for the Allstate Sugar Bowl." 
ContactJen Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
~-------------------------------q 
; F F :~;::,:~oft Cloth l 




i OUR 

wastJ ; ~ • Poltsh-n-Sealer ' 
BEST~~ i
• 2-Step Underbody t Protectant !
52694 State Road 933 1 
• Spot-Free Sout11 Benll. Indiana 46637 i 
RlflSe Jus/ 2 miles north of Notre Dame on U.S. 31 '


WASH 

·--------------------------------~ 


Students 
FIVCheaper 
Sample Fares from South Bend to:  Sample Fares from Chicago to:  
Pittsburgh  $151  Madrid  $321  
Chicago  $151  Florence  $412  
$202  Singapore  

1 traosportationtax. are I I change without notice. Dom.sti< fligh~ mm SliiY mmromg aSat night re~~uired and max stay is lOdays. International flight valid Mon· between Nov 1and De< 14. litin Ameri<a fares valid fm depa~ures through 4day min stay required and max stay is 90 days. Bla<kout dates and oth<r 
I C:• StudentUniverse.com 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 21, 2006 
Mooney 
continued from page 1 
"Either my message wasn't clear enough about the importance of this [informa­tion] or the timing [of the ses­sions] was bad," Mooney said. "[BOG is]. at the moment, the student perspective on this." 
Members praised the College for its development of leaders and the high number of extra-curricular activities offered to students. There were a few aspects of the College, however, that mem­bers described as needing improvement. 
"I have a lot of issues with diversity on campus," Student Diversity Board president Angelina Johnson said. 
Johnson said she would like to see more diversity in the classroom. She would also like diversity training for facul­
"If I hear the same
ty, staff, BOG ways, she members and the things [in my added. "Opus, resident assistants at the moment,
different
in the dormitories. is isolated in
information
The College one corner of needs to work sessions], then I the campus. towards having Having more
know I need to 
more students people around
start paying
open to diversity, and moving 
Johnson said. But attention to it. ,, around actually she also said Saint increases safe­Mary's is on the ty. Isolation
Carol Ann Mooney
right track to doesn't always
College president 
becoming more create safety." 
Mooney said articulating that meaning is "one of the challenges" the College faces, since most of the information on the topic is from the 1990s. 
Mooney said surveys that are sent out via e-mail to sen­iors and freshmen during the spring semester help reveal what is uniquely beneficial at a women's college. 
Mooney also addressed the question of retaining beauty and security at the College in light of the current construc­tion of the Hilton Garden Inn on the outskirts of campus. 
"I have talked extensively with the Sisters [of the Holy Cross] about this," Mooney said. "[The hotel] is going to be beautifully landscaped and we'll do what we can to keep the same look of the College." 
Mooney also addressed con­cern about safety for students living in Opus Apartments. 
"The security 
issue works two 
diverse. 
Mooney asked Johnson what she believed was standing in the way of student support for diversity. 
"I think that students who don't already feel that diversi­ty is important [may not feel that diversity events] would include them," Johnson said, adding that it just might not be one of their main concerns. 
Athletic commissioner Anne Cusak brought up the need for funding, staffing and recruit­ing for the athletic depart­ment. If these issues are addressed, she said, it would improve the College. 
Cusak also said the College needs a swimming pool, since the Regina Hall pool closed earlier this fall. 
"An Olympic sized swim­ming pool costs $1 million a year to run," Mooney said. "We need one but it [costs a lot of money)." 
The group also discussed the stereotype of Saint Mary's women as unintelligent and second-class. 
"I think the students who have the hardest time with [the stereotype] is the first­year students," said student trustee Julie Malone. "Oftentimes [new students] are unaware that the stereo­type exists, and it can turn inward and [students] can lose pride in being a Saint Mary's woman." 
Student body president Susan Mcllduff said she would like to see more information about what it really means to attend a women's college. 
"As a senior I still do not really know what it means to go to a women's college," she said. 
Even though 
Madeleva Drive will be moved closer to Opus Apartments due to the con­struction of the Hilton, Mooney said, the space has been measured and if the College wanted to build more on-campus apartments, they would fit in the space com­fortably. 
BOG members brought up many more issues, such as having more 24-hour spaces for students to study. They also suggested reducing the number of first-year students in McCandless Hall, as well as promoting the College's W program {a mandatory writing proficiency program) and the Senior Composition program. 
Mooney discussed the iden­tity initiative and addressed rumors about the College not being allowed to use the French Cross logo on items sold in the bookstore. 
There has been discussion about changing the College logo, which includes the French Cross, Mooney said, but the use of the Cross will not be restricted completely. 
The Cross is a religious symbol and therefore must be used appropriately, Mooney said. 
Mooney stressed that Monday's meeting was just for brainstorming and not a ses­sion where ideas needed to be completely fleshed out. 
"If I hear the same thing [in my different information gathering sessions], then I know I need to start paying attention to it," Mooney said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

VP 

continued from page 1 
chair of the committee, Burish listed the committee's responsi­bilities and the topics it should explore. 
"The University's long-range goal is to support distinctive, leading-edge research that is consistent with and that advances the University's overall mission," Burish said in his let­ter. 
The committee produced a report titled "A New Beginning" in May. In this report, the com­mittee said "the University's leaders must develop a com­pelling research message and communicate it clearly and often to all constituents." 
The majority of committee members recommended the University rearrange the admin­istrative structure of research and graduate studies, so the head of the Graduate School would be a dean and the head of the Office of Research would be a vice president and an officer of the University. 
The committee members expressed their judgment that 

Break 
continued from page 1 
the much-hyped football game versus USC, Thanksgiving won't be forgotten. 
Senior Ashley O'Keefe is head­ed to Los Angeles, so when she went home to West VIrginia for a visit last week, the family cele­brated Thanksgiving early. Plus, she said, her older brother will be at the USC game with her. 
Some students, on the other hand, are bringing Thanksgiving to USC. 
Ten relatives are accompany­ing Katie Burns, a sophomore from Grand Rapids, Mich., to the game in Los Angeles -including her always-prepared mother, who will cook a feast at Burns' uncle's home in Irvine, Calif. 
"My mom is actually bringing all of her cooking supplies, like her rolling pin and her apron and stuff," Burns said. "I am honestly looking forward to spending time with my family. Since my uncle lives so far away, I don't get to see him very often, so it's nice that I'll be able to h~ve a P.~etty big Thanksgiving this year. 
If they can't be at the game, students said they plan to watch it on television -or tape it, in sophomore Lennie Giannone's case. 
"It's actually me and my girl­friend's anniversary, to be hon­est," Giannone said. "We don't have concrete plans, but I don't think they're going to involve watching football." 
Other students, like sopho­more Matthew Posluszny, will be Notre Dame "can and should ... become a high impact 21st cen­tury research University." 
With this in mind, the Academic Council named a five­person search committee last week to find candidates for the vice president position. Neil Delaney, director of the Arts and Letters Honors Program and a philosophy professor, sociology professor Maureen Hallinan, aerospace and mechanical engi­neering professor Steve Batill, chemistry and biochemistry pro­fessor Richard Taylor and physics professor Malgorzata Dobrowolska-Furdyna have been named to sit on the com­mittee. 
Dobrowolska-Furdyna said the committee will meet with Burish later this week to discuss their course of action. 
"I think it's a very important position and definitely we are all hoping that the new vice presi­dent will help us move up to the next level," she said. 
Burish said he hopes to see the new vice president in position for the beginning of the next aca­demic year. 
University President Father John Jenkins and Burish have both made clear in public 
watching the game no matter what stands in their way -even holy matrimony. 
Posluszny is a groomsman in his aunt's wedding Saturday afternoon, and his presence is naturally requested at that evening's reception. In case there's no television, he and his father have purchased a two­and-a-half inch screen television. If there is a bar with a television, he said, he's certainly not going to be out on the dance floor. 
''I'll be getting a nice Bud[ weis­er] and sitting down to watch the game with my pops there," he said. "It's antisocial, but football comes first." 
While many students are plan­ning on sleeping for much of the break, senior Kelsey Miller reported that she'll be doing "about a billion" graduate school applications and research papers -though she did think she'd have time for some "straight chilling" with her extended family in Sacramento, Calif. (Miller applied for USC tickets through the student lot­tery, but was unsuccessful.) 
Miller also expressed concern about the safety of her off-cam­pus home on Corby Street during her and her roommates' absence. 
''I'm very afraid our house is going to get robbed. We live in a ... a safety-handicapped, crimi­nality-inclined neighborhood," Miller said. "But we've been brainstorming ... we're going to lock all our doors and leave some lights on. We might also call the five-o to drive by at night." 
For students who are staying in town during the break, North addresses over the last year and a half their objective to make Notre Dame a preeminent research institution. 
Jenkins told faculty in his annual address that while Notre Dame is not now regarded as a premier research university, it has the potential to become one. 
In his October address to the faculty, Burish introduced his plan to create a steering commit­tee that will work to advance the University's research mission while the new vice president is being chosen. 
"The goal of the steering com­mittee is to seek ideas from inside and outside the University on how we can creatively, suc­cessfully and strategically invest new dollars with those that are already available to focus on a small number of research areas that can truly become among the preeminent research areas in the country and beyond," Burish said. 
The steering committee will make recommendations on research areas that have the potential to become nationally ranked programs, Burish said. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
Dining Hall will serve a Thanksgiving buffet Thursday from noon until 3:30 p.m., con­sisting of turkey, ham and "other Thanksgiving staples," according to NOH manager Reggie Kalili. For students with a meal plan, the buffet is free, and for the general public, it costs $15.25 (though children under 12 are admitted for half-price). 
"We don't actively recruit non­students, but we do get a lot of guests who have heard about the buffet over the years," Kalili said. "People come from town as well as faculty and staff." 
Freshman Natalie Burke, a native of England whose family now lives in the Cayman Islands, was just planning to stay in South Bend with her brother, senior Mike Burke -after all, their family doesn't celebrate Thanksgiving. But hearing about her friends' plans prompted her to purchase a ticket home at the last minute. 
"I was going to stay here with Mike and we were going to try to cook a Thanksgiving dinner and probably fail miserably," she said. "But I kind of got all caught up in the whole thing of people getting excited about going home. It started rubbing off on me, and it made me want to go home, in a way. It'll just be a long weekend away for me, because we're not going to be celebrating Thanksgiving at home. 
"It's probably not much-need­ed," she said, "but it's certainly much-appreciated." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 







ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November 21, 2006 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Sudan hails deal with U.N. as victory 
KHARTOUM, Sudan -President Omar al­Bashir's government on Monday hailed a new agreement with the United Nations over peacekeepers in Darfur as a diplomat­ic breakthrough for Sudan, but said serious differences remain over the force's makeup and command. 
It was the first official word by Khartoum of its acceptance of the deal, announced Thursday in Addis Ababa. But there were signs the government might still resist hopes for a robust U.N. deployment to bring an end to the continuing bloodshed. 
U.N. chief Kofi Annan said the deal calls for a mixed U.N.-African Union force of up to 20,000 troops. If so, that would mean a dramatic reversal of Khartoum's staunch resistance to deploying any U.N. troops in Darfur 
Leader vows to rule by Islamic law 
MOGADISHU, Somalia -The president of a semiautonomous region in northeastern Somalia said Monday he will rule according to Islamic law, a surprising announcement in an area that has resisted the spread of Islamic militants who control much of the country's south. 
Puntland President Gen. Addeh Museh did not cite a reason for his decision, but it comes amid increasing fears that the Council of Islamic Courts will try to seize his territo­ry. 
The move also isolates Somalia's official government, which has watched helplessly as the Islamic movement steadily gained ground since June. The U.N. envoy to Somalia tried to bolster the fragile administration Monday, urging leaders to restart peace talks with the Islamists in order to avert a war. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Elderly driver sentenced to probation 
LOS ANGELES -An 89-year-old man whose car hurtled through a farmers market, killing 10 people, was let off on probation Monday by a judge who said he believed the defendant deserved to go prison but was too ill. 
George Russell Weller was convicted Oct. 20 of 10 counts of vehicular manslaughter with gross negligence in a ease that renewed debate over whether elderly people should lose their driver's licenses. 
Weller, confined to a sickbed, was not in court for his sentencing. 
Superior Court Judge Michael Johnson said he agreed completely with the jury and called Weller's actions callous and showing "an enor­mous indifference to human life." 
Man charged for enabling Hezbollah 
NEW YORK -A man was charged Monday with supporting terrorists by enabling customers to obtain satellite broadcasts of a Hezbollah tele­vision station, the second person accused in a case that has drawn scrutiny over how far the government can go in claiming someone is aid­ing terrorist groups. 
Saleh Elahwal, 53, of Matawan, N.J., and Javed Iqbal, 42, of Staten Island, could each face up to 110 years in prison ifthey are convicted of all 11 counts in a rewritten indictment unsealed Monday in U.S. District Court in Manhattan. They pleaded not guilty. . 
Lawyers for both declined to comment outside court. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Police find 14 illegal immigrants 
SOUTH BEND, Ind.-Fourteen illegal immi­grants were discovered in a minivan that a state trooper pulled over for speeding on the Indiana Toll Road. 
The 11 adults, 10 Mexican nationals and a woman from El Salvador, and three teenagers, two from Mexico and one from El Salvador, were taken into custody by state police Saturday. They have since been turned over to 
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials. 
The passengers told police they had not eaten for two days because the minivan driver refused to feed them since they had no money. 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVJCES page 5 
IRAQ 

Syrian-Iraq relations to resume 
Officials see reinstating diplomatic ties as movement towards slowing violence 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -After nearly a quarter-century of sev­ered ties, Iraq said Monday it will resume diplomatic relations with neighboring Syria --:-a move seen as a possible step toward stem­ming some of the unrelent­ing violence, which claimed another 100 lives. 
The Iraqi and Syrian pres­idents also received invita­tions from Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to a weekend summit in Tehran to tackle the chaos in Iraq, Iraqi lawmakers said. Iraqi President Jalal Talabani's spokesman said his boss would attend but that Syrian President Bashar Assad would not. The invi­tation was thought to be an attempt by Iran to counter 
U.S. influence in the region. 
The announcement of restored Iraqi-Syrian ties came during a ground­breaking visit to Baghdad by Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Moallem, who was challenged over Damascus' role in supporting the Sunni insurgency. 
"We object to any neigh­boring country that allows itself to be a base or a tran­sit point for the terrorist groups that harm Iraq," Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki said after meeting with the Syrian envoy. 
Al-Maliki told Moallem that Damascus should not let its disputes with the United States be played out in Iraq, where the chaos and bloodshed has become "a danger that threatens all, not Iraq only." 
Asked about the Syrian's visit, State Department deputy spokesman Tom Casey said "the problem is not what they say but what they do." 
"Certainly what we would like to see the Syrians do is take actions to, among other things, prevent for­eign fighters from coming across the border into Iraq; and, again, to back up the positive words that they have with some real con­crete steps," Casey said. 


Moallem arrived in Iraq on Sunday in the first such high-level visit by a Syrian official since the fall of Saddam Hussein's regime in 2003. He was expected to return to Damascus on Tuesday. · 
"Diplomatic relations will be restored between the two countries during the visit," Iraqi government spokes-man Ali al-Dabbagh said. 
Syria broke diplomatic ties with Iraq in 1982, accusing Iraq of inciting riots by the banned Muslim Broth-erhood in Syria. Damascus also sided with Iran in the 1980-88 Iran­Iraq war. Trade ties were restored in 1997. 
More recently, Syria is widely believed to have done little to stop foreign fighters and al-Qaida recruits from crossing its border to join Sunni insur­gents in Iraq. It also has pro.vided refuge for many top members of Saddam's former leadership and polit­ical corps, which is thought to have organized arms and funding for the insurgents. The Sunni insurgency, since it sprang to life in the late summer of 2003, has been responsible for the vast majority of U.S. deaths in Iraq. 

A U.S. soldier was killed by a roadside bomb in Baghdad on Saturday night and a U.S. Marine died dur­ing combat in Anbar province on Sunday, the military said, raising to at least 2,865 the number of 
U.S. service members who have died since the begin­ning of the Iraq war. This month in Iraq, 4 7 American service members have been killed or died. 
The Iraqi death toll, meanwhile, rose to at least 1,371 for the first 20 days of November -the highest for any month since The Associated Press began tracking the figure in April 2005. 
-I 
' 
I 
I
Murdoch cancels Simpson's book 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK-O.J. Simpson's book and TV special were canceled Monday, an astonishing end to an imaginary confession that had sick­ened the public as the very worst kind of tabloid sensation. 
"I and senior management agree with the American public that this was an ill-considered project," said Rupert Murdoch, whose News Corp. owns both Fox Broadcasting and pub­lisher HarperCollins. ~·we are sorry for any pain that this has caused the families of Ron Goldman and Nicole Brown Simpson." 
"If I Did It," in which Simpson was to have described how he would have killed his ex-wife, had been scheduled to air as a two-part interview Nov. 27 and Nov. 29 on Fox. The book was to have followed on Nov. 30 
HarperCollins spokeswoman Erin Crum said some copies had already been shipped to stores but would be recalled, and all copies would be destroyed. 
"I think News Corp. finally stepped up, admitted they made a mistake and did the right thing," said Jonathan Polak, the lawyer for Fred Goldman, Ron's father. "This is everything we have been asking News Corp. to do for the past two weeks. We want to thank the American people for helping make this happen." , 
Simpson's attorney, Yale Galanter, told The Associated Press: "We had known for three or four days that this was a possibility." 
Galanter said he did not know whether the deal between Simpson and News Corp. was contingent on a TV interview being shown or a book arriving in stores. 
"There are only three possible reac­tions: anger, happiness or indiffer­ence. He's totally indifferent about the fact that it's been canceled," said Galanter, who added that he didn't know ifSimpson was paid upfront. 
Any hopes of commercial reward were quickly overwhelmed by near universal revulsion to last week's announcement -from those who knew Goldman and Brown, from booksellers and advertisers, even from Fox News Channel personality Bill O'Reilly. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, November 21, 2006 


U.S. wary of Iran, Syria in Iraq 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Bush administration cast a wary eye Monday on signs that Iran and Syria were taking a more active diplomatic role in Iraq, even as debate in the U.S. centered on how many troops to keep in the 
war. 
Just days after reports that U.S. officials were discussing a broad­er role for Iran and Syria, Iraqi lawmakers said Iranian leaders had invited the Iraqi and Syrian presidents for a weekend summit. A State Department official said that while strong relations between the three countries were encouraged, actions would speak louder than words. 
In the past, said deputy spokesman Tom Casey, "while there have been positive state­ments from the Iranian govern­ment about wishing to play a pos­itive role in Iraq, those statements haven't been backed up by actions." 
He offered a similar assessment of Syria, saying the problem "is not what they say; the problem is what they do.... What we would like to see the Syrians do is take actions to, among other things, 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -An 89-year­old man whose car hurtled through a farmers market, killing 10 people, was let off on probation Monday by a judge who said he believed the defendant deserved to go prison but was too ill. 
George Russell Weller was convicted Oct. 20 of 10 counts of vehicular manslaughter with gross negligence in a case that renewed debate over whether elderly people should lose their driver's licenses. 
Weller, confined to a sickbed, was not in court for his sen­tencing. 
Superior Court Judge Michael Johnson said he agreed completely with the jury and called Weller's actions callous and showing "an enor­mous indifference to truman life." 
Weller was 86 when his 1992 Buick Le Sabre plowed at free­way speed into the crowded farmers market on July 16, 2003. In addition to the 10 killed, more than 70 people were injured. 
Weller could have received up to 18 years in prison, but the judge said Weller's health problems, including severe heart disease, would make him a burden on prison authorities and taxpayers, and that imprisonment would most like­ly kill Weller. 
Defense attorneys argued that Weller was a victim of "pedal error" in which he pan­icked and mistook the car's accelerator for the brake. Prosecutors said he was care­less to the point of criminal negligence. 
The judge noted that Weller had enough control of his vehi­cle to avoid cars and trucks within tlie farmers market. 
Mr: Weller chose to steer into the people, plowing into the prevent foreign fighters from coming across the border into Iraq." 
At the same time, there have been indications that a special 
U.S. advisory commission is con­sidering recommendations that could include a broader role in the region by Syria and Iran. The Iraq Study Group, led by Bush family friend and former Secretary of State James Baker and former Rep. Lee Hamilton, is expected to issue its report soon. 
But members of the commission have expressed concern that working with Iran and Syria could require America "to enter into a de facto partnership with them," with possible trade-offs, said the official, who requested anonymity because the group's discussions have not been made public. 
House Armed Services Committee Chairman Duncan Hunter said Monday that the U.S. needs to push more Iraqi security forces to the front lines. Other Americans, including "some mili­tary officials, have suggested boosting U.S. troop levels to help train the Iraqis. 
President Bush said Monday he wasn't ready to decide between the rival calls for more or fewer 
U.S. troops on the ground. 

Man who killed 10 released 
89-year-old convicted ofvehicular manslaughter now on probation 
crowd and literally launching bodies into the air as his car sped 2 1/2 blocks," the judge said. The judge also called Weller's apologies hollow. 
The district attorney's office did not make a sentencing rec­ommendation but cited a pro­bation officer's recommenda­tion that Weller spend at least a short time in prison. 
"I believe the courts have to be practical as well as princi­pled," the judge said. "I don't see any purpose of sending Mr. Weller to jail or prison. It wouldn't do anybody any good." 
Weller, a month short of his 90th birthday, was placed on five years' felony probation. 

Referring to the Iraqi security forces, Hunter told The Associated Press, "We need to s~ddle those up and deploy them to the fight" in dangerous areas, primarily in Baghdad. llunter, a California Republican who is interested in his party's 2008 presidential nomination, took a different tack from Sen. John McCain, a front-running 2008 hopeful who has urged that addi­tional U.S. troops be sent. 
Pace has asked a group of about 16 military members, largely colonels who have recent­ly served in the Gulf region, to look at what is going right or wrong in the war and to discuss options for progress. The group is not expected to submit a report, but Pace will use any thoughts and options coming out of the review to help develop his own recommendations for the defense secretary and the president. 
Maj. Gen. William B. Caldwell, a military spokesman in Iraq, said Monday that adding more U.S. forces would "achieve a short­term solution, but it's not going to achieve a long-term effect. ... The key to this thing is we have got to get the Iraqi security forces able to operate in an independent manner, on their own." 
The judge also ordered him to pay about $101,700 in penal­ties, ineluding fines and restiti­tution for families of two vic­tims. Restitution for the remainder of the victims was still being resolved. 
The crash sparked a national debate over whether elderly drivers should be given road and written tests when they renew their licenses. 
Although Weller did not testi­fy, a tape of his interview with police immediately after the accident was played in court. He told authorities he did everything he could think of to stop the vehicle, ineluding attempting to throw its gearshift knob into park. 
Arrests 
continued from page 1 
in the student section at half­time, Johnson did not say if any of the arresl<.; or citations were fight. Police are still investigat­ing the matter, Johnson said. 

"The matter will be referred to the Prosecutor's Office for review," he said. 
In addition, two people were issued trespass warnings after disregarding "ofllcers' requests 
marshmallow-related. Outside the "Police and security stadium, police staffpatrol parking 
made six custo­

lots to help promote 
dial arrests, 

three for public a family friendly intoxication, one game dayfor liquor law 
environment and to
violation and 

two for liquor enforce Indiana laws law violation, regarding alcohol." 
false informing and possession 

Phil Johnson 
of false identifi­cation. All associate director offenders who Notre Dame were arrested 
Security/Police 
were transport­ed to St. Joseph to stop drinking alcohol during the game in the parking lot," Johnson said. 
NDSP was assisted outside the stadium by Indiana State Excise Police, South Bend Police and St. Joseph County Police. 
"Police and security staff patrol parking lots to help pro­mote a family friendly game 
County jail, Johnson said. 
Two men were also arrested for criminal trespass and for re-selling football tickets on campus, "having previously being issued warnings," Johnson said. 
One man was arrested for public intoxication following a day environment and to enforce Indiana laws regarding alcohol," Johnson said. "This is not an undercover operation." 

Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 

Band 
continued from page 1 
Saturday from Chicago­O'Hare airport, perform at a pre-game pep rally organized by the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles near the Coliseum at Brewer Park, and play on the sideline during the entire game, ·Dwyer said. 
They will not, however, play at halftime and will not dress in their uniforms, which are being dry cleaned in preparation for Notre Dame's probable BCS bowl appearance. The band will return early Sunday morning. 
The impact of the band on the football team's per­formance became clear, Dwyer said, after the Sept. 23 Michigan State game. 
In a handwritten note that hangs outside the band office, Weis wrote, "You helped us defeat Michigan 


State, [and] will help us perform our best [at USC]." But why .are only 75 members allowed to go? 
Dwyer said the cap is a regulation imposed on Notre Dame by USC's fire marshal for safety con­cerns. The 7 5 members includes both members and directors, Dwyer said, not­ing that the directors will be bringing their instru­ments as well so they can "play loud." 
The band has not traveled to USC in more than four years, Fleming said. Members are going this time, he said, because of Weis: direct request. 
Dwyer believes the band's music can have a powerful effect on the team. 
"[Football] is a game of emotion," he said. "The songs of Notre Dame give the team an extra push." 
Contact John Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 






Thursday, November 29 


DeBartolo Hall Room 129 
7:00PM 

Wednesday, November 30 



DeBartolo Hall Room l29 
7:00PM 
THE 0HSERVER 






USINESS
Tuesday, November 21, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
12,316.54 -26.02

jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I ,6 79 141 1,600 2,567,758,790 

FTSf IOO(London) 6,204.50 +12.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE NASDAQ 100 TR(QQQQ) 
+0.20 +0.09 44.39 

INTEL CP (INTC) +o.n +0.17 22.27 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +0.73 +0.03 5.5 I 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) + 1.67 +0.49 29.89 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.26 -0.012 4.595 
13-WEEK BILL -0.40 -0.020 4.925 
30-YEAR BOND -0.30 -0.014 4.677 
5-YEARNOTE -0.20 -0.009 4.594 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.45 55.81 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -0.40 622. I 0 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.75 93.38 
Excha Rates 

YEN 118.0500 
EURO 0.7799 
POUND 0.5270 
CANADIAN$ 1.1465 
IN BRIEF 
Platinum skyrockets as supply tightens 
NEW YORK -Platinum futures soared Monday on developing supply tightness, options-related activity, and fund and speculative buying. 
The January contract settled up $42.20 at $1,234.30 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
"Industrial demand for platinum usage in cat­alytic converters and electronics has been sup­portive for the market," said Jim Quinn, commod­ity floor analyst with A.G. Edwards. "There has been a steady influx of demand. And supply is rather tight, relative to demand." 
Just last week, fabricator/distributor Johnson Matthey issued a report estimating that the plat­inum market would have a small supply deficit of 20,000 ounces in 2006. 
Demand for auto catalysts was forecast to rise 15 percent this year, Johnson Matthey said, in large part due to rising market share for diesel­powered vehicles, which require platinum rather than less-expensive palladium, in addition to tightening emissions standards around the world. 
EU proposes ban to sale of cat, dog fur 
BRUSSELS, Belgium -The European Union proposed a ban Monday on the sale and import of dog and cat fur in all 25 member nations, say­ing it has been found in some clothing, toys and other items on sale in Europe. 
The European Commission -the bloc's exec­utive body -said the dog and cat fur had either been falsely labeled as coming from another ani­mal or was hidden within the products. 
"Just the idea of young children playing with toys which have been made with dog and cat fur is something we cannot accept," said Markos Kyprianou, the body's consumer protection com­missioner. "In Europe, as you know, cats and dogs are considered companion animals and nothing else." 
Fifteen member states already ban dog and cat fur sales. However, a December 2005 investiga­tion by the Australian group Humane Society International showed dog and cat fur being used in products in the Czech Republic -a member of the EU since 2004. 
The proposed EU-wide ban will serve to bring clear guidelines for all member nations, Kyprianou said, adding that he expected it to pass quickly. 

No domestics on safest vehicle list 
New requirements keep imports atop U.S. insurance industry's rankings 
Associated Press  
DETROIT -Imported  
models took all 13 spots on  
the U.S. insurance industry's  
list of safest vehicles this  
year, due mainly to a new  
requirement that all cars  
and sport utilities on the list  
have systems to keep them  
stable in an emergency.  
The Insurance Institute for  
Highway Safety isn't bashful  
about its reasons for push­ 
ing electronic stability con­ 
trol, saying that its studies  
show up to 10,000 fatal  
crashes per year could be  
prevented if every vehicle  
had the safety feature.  
"The research is so com­ 
pelling that electronic stabil­ 
ity control could help pre­ 
vent many crashes from  
happening in the first  
place," institute spokesman  
Russ Rader said.  
Winners for the 2007  
model year included the  
Audi A6 in the large car cat­ 
egory; the Audi A-4, Saab 9­ 
3 and Subaru Legacy (with  
optional stability control) for  
midsize cars; the Hyundai  
Entourage and Kia Sedona  
minivans; the Mercedes M­ 
class and Volvo XC90 luxury  
sport utility vehicles; the  
Acura RDX, Honda Pilot and  
Subaru B9 Tribeca midsize  
SUVs; and the Honda CR-V AP  
and Subaru Forester small In this undated photo provided by Honda, the 2007 Honda CR-V is shown. Foreign  
SUVs. brands dominated this year's safest vehicle list put out by the insurance industry.  
All 13 vehicles are tops in  
protecting people in front,  had no models on the list of  whether the feature will be  meet the federal govern­ 
side and rear crash tests  safest vehicles because they  standard or optional, he  ment's timetable for the rest.  
based on institute tests dur­ haven't moved quickly  said.  All 2007 SUVs, pickups  
ing the year. Pickup trucks  enough to add stability con­ "We're moving in the  and minivans produced by  
were not included because  trol to their models, Lund  same direction as the insti­ Honda Motor Co. carry the  
the institute has not yet test­ said in a telephone inter­ tute," he said.  technology, while Hyundai  
ed their side crashworthi­ view.  Ford has said previously  Motor Co. said it is standard  
ness.  For instance, Ford Motor  that it would put stability  equipment on 70 percent of  
The National Highway  Co. would have had three  control on its entire lineup  its 2007 vehicles.  
Traffic Safety Administ­ cars -the Ford Freestyle  by the end of 2009.  Several other vehicles,  
ration has proposed requir­ crossover and the Mercury  General Motors Corp. said  including nine Toyota Motor  
ing electronic stability con­ Montego and Ford 500  nearly two years ago that it  Corp. models, would have  
trol on all new vehicles by  sedans -make the list if  would make the technology  made the list if they had sta­ 
the 2012 model year, but  they had stability control,  standard in all vehicles by  bility control, the institute  
institute President Adrian  the institute said. The 500  2010, including all SUVs and  said.  
Lund said that's not soon  and the Montego earned top  some full-size pickups in the  No small cars made this  
enough.  safety picks last year.  2007 model year.  year's list. The Honda Civic,  
"We think that they are  Ford spokesman Jim Cain  Toyota has said stability  which won last year, was  
too slow," Lund said.  said all three vehicles will  control would be a standard  knocked off due to lack of  
"Automakers will probably  get stability control for the  feature across all its models  stability control on most  
have it as standard equip­ 2008 model year, with ver­ by 2009.  models. The one version  
ment by the time the federal  sions equipped with the  DaimlerChrysler AG said it  that has the feature doesn't  
standards actually take full  safety feature on sale some­ will have the technology on  have head restraints for  
effect."  time next year. The compa­ 54 percent of its vehicles  rear crash protection, the  
Domestic manufacturers  ny has not determined  this model year and will  institute said.  


Stocks end mixed amid merger news 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Wall Street was 
mixed in an erratic session Monday 
after a flurry of merger news failed 
to erase investors' concerns that a 
recent run-up has left stocks over­
bought. 

Monday's merger agreements, including a deal by Freeport­McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. to acquire Phelps Dodge Corp. for $26 billion, totaled more than $50 billion in activity. While the deals indicate companies are optimistic about the 
'future, investors appear uncon­vinced about the health of the econ­omy and were more cautious than usual given the spate of merger announcements. The buyout news battled with a sense that stocks were due for a pullback after the major indexes rose more than 1 percent last week. 
Matthew Smith, vice president and portfolio manager at Smith Affiliated Capital, contends investors could be wary of sending stocks much higher and in many cases will simply try to hold their gains until the end of the year. 
"I just don't think right now it's warranted to take more risk on given the moves we've had. We might see trending sideways," he said. 
The Dow Jones industrial average was down 26.02, or 0.21 percent, at 12,316.54. Earlier in the session the Dow hit another trading high of 12,355.23. 
Broader stock indicators were narrowly mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500 index closed down 0. 70, or 0.05 percent, at 1,400.50, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq com­posite index rose 6.86, or 0.28 per­cent, to 2,452. 72. 
Bonds rose, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note falling to 4.60 percent from 4.61 percent late Friday. The dollar was mixed against other major curren­cies, while gold prices fell. 
Light, sweet crude fell 17 cents to $58.80 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, November 21, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
Th~ lnbpentLmt, D4.i/y Nnuspapno Sn-virtg Nom Dame arttl Saint Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Gilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gortumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPOilTS EDimR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDimR: Kelly Meehan PHom EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRAffiR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Encourage chastity, not 'free talk' 
11 is perhaps my greatest fear that thP view proposPd in Joey Falco's eolumn ("Disloyal fathers," Nov. 20) is the popular one. Although articulate, considerate and genuinely concerned fiw the welfarn of the human raee (qualities which seem rare nowadays), Joey Falco misses the point. With all due respect to him, I write that bowing down to the insatiable. animalistic desires of an over-sexed youth will only perpetuate the problems of modern soeie­ty, speeifically those mentioned by Falco in his article. 
Throwing condoms at Africa will, per­haps, slow the sprnad of AIDS. (This, even. is heavily debated.) Talking about sex freely on campus as if it were common and aceepted will, perhaps, allow (()r bet­ter treatment of both victims and perpn­trators of sexual assault. In both cases, the solution obviously looks toward the end ­less AIDS, more dialogue -as the basis for what is good. However, in giving in too much to what seems to be an uncontrol­lable trend in regards to sexuality in the world today, Falco implies that attempting to teach men and women virtue, specifi­cally chastity, would be a futile eflort. 
I answer that we must never give up. Who cares about chastity? Isn't it just one of those pretty little things that the Chureh teaches? I answer with a resounding, "No!" As it is the first image that came to mind, I use an analogy of a dog. This dog has a problem. lie barks. lie yelps. lie growls, and he even attaeks sweet Aunt Fae who, in his mind, seems especially thrnatcming. (Sparkly, rnd, horn-rimmed glassns arn nevnr a good idea.) There arc two options here. Either one can muzzle the dog and foren him to keep his mouth shut by physically tying his jowls together, or one ean toac:h him to bark loss, be more discerning of strangers and obny when he is asked to bnhave. Granted, the first option is certainly the easier one and probably the least taxing on both the dog and tho owner. The second option, howev­er, is the more desirable ono, albeit the more diflicult one. It's not hard to see the analogy. Condoms and "talking freely about sex" am the muzzle, damping shut our sexuality and that (()r whieh it is intendnd. Chastity is what the dog possess­es after achieving obedience and humility. Both solutions produce the same eflect, but the dog that has been taught can now use his gifL<> fi>r good, like warding ofl' the burglar who comes in the middle of the night. 
We are not animals. We do not have to be trained to obey. We can discern right from wrong provided we have the tools to do so. The practice of denying condoms to Africa and preventing "free talk" on sex at the University docs not deny a reality but allirms another: we are hwnan, choose to aet a certain way, yet are called to act in accordance with the teachings of Scripture and Christ Himself. The university has never dosed its doors to the \<ictims of sex­ual assault, and if it has, I will stand up with the throng to open them again. However, "free talk" will only make for an environment that is especially hard to ehoose well. The problem of sex on cam­pus seems overbearing enough already; we do not need men and women walking around unashamedly of last night's exploits. 
I hope I am wrong in my analysis of Falco's viewpoint. I expect with all humili­ty that Falco will berate me and sharpen his essay against my rough foil. Even if Falco himself should write an article examining ways in which chastity could be taught, I fear that there are still others who do not understand what I have intended to say or what I have in mind for the university. For these men and women, I respond simply: don't allow yourself to be muzzled, but come to know the infinite good of your sexuality. 
Daniel Amiri 
sophomore 
Alumni Hall 
Nov. 20 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advenisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tiu: Observa-(USPS 591-) 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation pcriQds. A 5ubscriprion m The O~rvcr is $100 for om: acuiemic: yar; $55 for om: scmcsu:r. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining HaU Send addresr; comctiom ro: Noue Dame. IN 46';.56..0779 The Ob$erver l"eriodical postage paid at Notte Dame P.O. Box 779 and J.ddi(iona.l mailing offh;;e$. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nont Dame, IN -4655&-0n9 
Tite Observer is a member ofthct Associated Ptc!SS.. All rtproduaion rights are tescrvc:d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
caglccartoons.cotn 

"THE SECRET TO A GOOD STUFFING lS NOT TO OVERDO IT'' 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
News Graphics Katie Kohler Jarred Wafer 



Submit aLetter
Mary Kate Sports 
"The important work of moving the "We did not change as we grew older; 

Malone Tim Dougherty 

world forward does not wait to be done we just became more clearly ourselves. " 
Katie McDonnell Dan Murphy by perfect men." Amanda Michaels Eric Retter 


to the Editor at 
Lynn HallGeorge Eliot author
Viewpoint Scene 
novelist 

.. www.ndsmcobserver.com
Molly Kring Analise Lipari 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, November 21, 2006 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Legal Aid Clinic exists to help the poor 
It was with great interest that I read The Observer's story ("Students discuss legalities," Nov. 16) on a "preventative lawyering" seminar conducted by the Notre Dame legal aid clinic for Notre Dame undergraduates living off-cam­pus. And while I'm certain the experi­ence provided an excellent research opportunity for the law students involved, I find the enterprise incredi­bly disappointing. 
I was a student intern at the Notre Dame Immigration Clinic during my third year of law school-a law school institution that ground to a halt this year due in some part to administrative exigencies and in large part to a palpa­ble lack of support from the law school administration. The immigration clinic served over 200 members of the South Bend immigrant community, most of them refugees who fled unimaginable persecution to come here to the United States, usually with little more than the clothes they were wearing and whatev­er cash they could stuff into their pock­ets. The students and faculty who served them diligently and tirelessly lit­erally saved their lives. 
And now, as an attorney with the Department of Justice in the Executive Office for Immigration Review, I have already had ample opportunity to see what happens to immigrants and other disadvantaged people who can't afford quality representation and are either forced to represent themselves or. fleeced by unqualified and dishonest attorneys who take advantage of their disadvantage. I understand even more acutely the desperate need for low-cost and free legal services for the most vul­nerable members of our society. And so I am shocked and a little embarrassed that the Notre. Dame Legal Aid Clinic, an institution whose stated purpose is to provide "legal services to local resi­dents who cannot afford private prac­tice attorneys," is using its resources (which are apparently so limited that it cannot continue to do immigration work) to help Notre Dame undergrads get out of tickets for underage con­sumption and disturbing the peace. 
Don't get me wrong-I know that not every single Notre Dame student is wealthy. As an Assistant Rector, I became keenly aware of the sometimes extraordinary economic disparities among Notre Dame students. But I know too that over 60 percent of Notre Dame students come from families with a household income exceeding 100,000 dollars a year -hardly the kind of "local residents" the Clinic professes to exist to serve. When I was an AR, I heard some students complain ad nau­seum about the paternalism of dorm rules and about how they longed for the seemingly unfettered liberty of off­campus life, where they could finally be "treated like grown-ups." 

Unfortunately, when it comes time to take adult responsibility for their own actions, these same students now ask the University to provide them with free legal services. Perhaps I'm naive to think that parents who agree to pay off-campus rent are willing to retain attorneys for their student tenants when they throw parties that break the law; but I was, of course, The Man myself. 
Despite my apparently antiquated notions of the responsibilities of adult­hood, I know that the Notre Dame Legal Aid Clinic does not exist for the defense of Notre Dame undergrads fighting for their right to party. It exists to provide Notre Dame law students with practical legal training while serv­ing the needs of the poor. The Clinic plays an integral role in the University's relationship with the South Bend community, and it should contin­ue to devote its attention and resources to serving its mission, not facilitating off-campus ragers thrown by students who by and large have access to paid representation. And if the Clinic has such a glut of resources that it can afford these "extracurricular" activi­ties, it is shameful that the law school administration hasn't taken more con­crete steps to reopen the Immigration Clinic. But maybe my expectations are just too high. 
Katherine Leahy, J.D. Newark, NJ Nov. !6 

Stem-cell research: a moral endeavor? 

I am strongly pro-life. I am against abortion, in most cases, and I believe that our laws should reflect what is morally right. But I'm having a problem with the issue of stem cell research. Conventional wisdom says that it's inconsistent to be both pro­life and pro-stem cell research. I used to agree with that whole­heartedly, but it doesn't seem so clear-cut anymore. 
Two months ago, I finished chemotherapy for testicular cancer. Thankfully, I can call myself a survivor; however, many people aren't as lucky. Each day I spent in the oncology ward of the hospital, receiving that venomous chemo, I met people who had it much worse than I. The brutal reality: they were going to die. Old, young, black, white, male, female-it didn't matter. I gazed into their vacant, pale and numb faces, as they coped with insurmountable pain and the fear of death. I saw their families huddled around their bedside, holding trembling hands, holding back the tears, trying to "be strong" for their sick loved one. 
These types of diseases destroy lives. And it made me sick, deep in my soul. It made me angry, too. "We have got to fix this," I said to myself. The greatest country in the world -we have got to work on this! Many scientists and researchers believe that embryonic stem cells present the possibility of curing several debilitating diseases, such as Parkinson's, diabetes, Alzheimer's and cancer. Only time will tell if they are right. But should we give scientists the opportunity to, atthe very least, see what they can do? I'm not talking about cloning or other wild, science-fic­tion possibilities. I'm talking about sound, reasonable stem-cell research legislation. So here's my dilemma: Is it possible to be a pro-life Catholic and pro-embryonic stem cell research? 
Several leading conservatives claim to be both pro-life and pro-stem cell research. Supporters estimate that 100 million people could be aided by stem cell developments. "Stem-cell research facilitates life," Senator Orrin Hatch says. "Abortion destroys lives; this is about saving lives." Also, supporters claim that there is a moral difference between a fertilized egg in a petri dish or test tube and a fertilized egg in a uterus. If the embryos are about to be discarded at a fertility clinic anyway, why should we abandon them when we could be curing deadly diseases? But on the other hand, is there really a moral differ­ence between a fertilized egg in 'the uterus and· one in a test tube? Richard Doerflinger, an official with the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, said, "Destroying an embryo in the lab is morally the same as abortion in Catholic teaching." Is it? I honestly don't know for sure. 
My ultimate conclusion is inconclusive. But I do think there is a compelling reason to, at the very least, entertain the possibili­ty that stemccell research is a moral and worthwhile endeavor. At a place like Notre Dame, a leader in Catholic intellectual thought, we should begin paying more attention to the possibili­ty. ­
Lt. Mike Koprowski, USAF alumnus Class of 2006 Nov. 17 


Cotnbine religion and science in education 
In 1957, the Russians launched Sputnik into space, sparking a fierce space race that pushed the United States towards further scientific development and advancement. Unfortunately, this effort has lost momentum throughout the past five decades. This is evident in falling math and science scores, resulting in our country being ranked below average on various interna­tional tests. 
Who ranks first you ask? Japan and Singapore, in both math and science and throughout all grade levels. There are various reasons that can explain the decline in math/sci­ence skills in America, including an overall lack of ambition in the States to adhere to the strict discipline forced on East Asian students. However, instead of trying to concern ourselves with the discipline level in our schools, I think we should focus on the status that religion has in our society. 
Like in many cultures, religion in America has a large effect on many aspects of life. Encouraged by the family, it instills many of the values and morals that people will exercise with all their lives. However, it seems that religious fervor in America is decreasing along with our math/science skills, something that is easily for­gotten in such a spiritual atmosphere as Notre Dame. This is evident in the slipping church attendance rates, with less than a fifth of the population attending weekly. Many have noted that those who do claim to go to church just do so on religious holidays. This is unacceptable, especially when one considers what a strong faith can contribute to one's education. 
We can no longer consider religion and science as being mutually exclusive; rather, we must rec­ognize that they support each other, as Pope John Paul II said, "like two wings on which the human spirit rises to contemplation of the truth." The intellect is the most godlike aspect of humanity and one that honors God through the vigorous exercise of the mind. One must study the book of scripture, but also the book of nature, as God's plan is evident in both of these resources. Faith reveals the questions in which we look to reason for the answers. Therefore, in strengthening one's faith, one will also be more motivated to inquire into the wonderful world that God has made. 
For this reason, I am proud to be a student here at Notre Dame, "a place," as University President Father John Jenkins would say, "of higher learning that plays host to world-chang­ing teaching and research, but where technical knowledge does not outrun moral wisdom." 
Kristen Larsen freshman Welsh Family Hall 
Nov. 19 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, November 21, 2006 
CD REVIEW 

My Chemical Romance fails to lead 'Parade' 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Ediror 
When did it become fashionable for Goth to blend with a Napoleonic, costumed outfit pulled out of the attic for Sgt. Pepper? This seems to be the case with My Chemical Romance's latest release, "Welcome to the Black Parade." With an overly skeletal makeup style and a musical taste that sim­ply doesn't match, My Chemical Romance has unsuccessfully gone the emo-rock route of break-ups, gender bending and pretentiousness. While the music is catchy at points, on the whole it's too pop-like to take this band at face value. 
Opening with two tracks that are basical­ly one (and ironically the best of the album), My Chemical Romance yearns to look like Green Day and sound like Alkaline Trio with a similar emo-goth style. However, the band lacks both the staying power ofGreen Day and the testicular forti­tude to write the gut-wrenching lyrics that have come to define Alkaline Trio, the sell:. proclaimed heirs to "evil emo." 
Particularly, this is shown in the lyrics of the first track, when lead singer Gerard Way says, "Now come one and all to this tragic aflair/ Wipe off that makeup/ What's in is despair." The album isn't tragie-the high production values are too glossy, and the baekup vocals eould have benn drawn from any eorporate library ofsounds. 
What can be made, then. of the band's makeup? The androgynous nature of pop­punk has been part of a growing trend. For example, AFl's frontman, Davey !Iavok, started wearing makeup years ago. However, Havok's music had the lyrical poeticism to warrant his alternative-look­ing stage costumes. With "The Black Parade," bubblegum pop-punk meets Havok's style, and is not the better for it. 
Whereas AFI can effectively sing about a girl, and make it sound good, My Chemieal Romance is spouting the same old lyrics 
of their first album 




===;;;-] while trying to imi­tate an image of
My Chemical Romance 
seriousness and doom. One has toWelcome to the ask if they are actu­ally asking any par­Black Parade ticular girl to take off her makeup, or if they are directed towards any musi­cian -among the spate of emo-punk bands with eyeliner 
Recommended tracks: 'I Don't Love You,"Mama' 
and blaek uniforms. Track four, "The 
DVD REVIEW 

'Da Vinci Code' stirs little controversy or interest 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
Dan Brown's novel "TheDa Vinci Code" stirred controversy, but Ron Howard's film version stirs little but bad reviews. "The Da Vinci Code" is now available on DVD from Sony Pictures, bringing the divisive story of the Holy Grail into your home so you can ride around with Robert Langdon and Sophie Neveu in Smart Cars while evading the evil forces of Opus Dei and the French FBI. 
Say what you will about the story ­inevitably, it's controversial. Everyone had something to say about Brown's take on the Holy Grail legend: the pope didn't like it, and the general public ate it up. Also, say what you will about the literary merit of the text itself: English professors didn't like it, and the general public ate it up. 
But the film is something else. Firstly, the superstar and near-winner of three Oscars in a row, Tom Hanks, plays Brown's normally self-assured protago­nist, cryptologist Robert Langdon. 
However, this performance certainly 
won't be revered in the same way as "Philadelphia" or "Cast Away." Onee the distracting hairstyle is forgotten (readers most likely won't remember Brown say­ing that Langdon had a glorified mullet), all that's left of Hanks' performance is the surprised look that doesn't leave his face for the entire film. 
Spending the movie painstakingly explaining the mysteries, symbols and conspiracies to both the audience and Sophie Neveu (Audrey Tautou), his coun­terpart, can get exhausting. But Hanks' Langdon seems to have spent too much time in his office at Harvard and not enough time in the real world. He simply can't handle what happens. 
Langdon spends most of the time w.ith Neveu searching for clues relating to her grandfather's murder. Accused of the murder by French cop Faehe (brilliantly played by the toughest Frenchman since Hobespierre, Jean Reno) and chased by a sinister albino monk named Silas (Paul Bettany). Langdon and Neveu travel from Paris to Britain in search of the truth, uncovering the biggest secret in the history of humanity. 
On the whole, the film is decent. 
Howard is no hack, 
and he knows how Sharpest Lives," is the most complete track on the album, with a catehy riff and lyrics that are able to sound like they're from the heart. The rest of the album ranges from slightly forced to sareastically sublime. The prime example of this sublimeness and profundity is the titular traek, "Welcome to the Black Parade." The band may be trying to pay homage to Queen, but Freddie Mercury and company did the "massive rock" opening much better than My Chemieal Romance does. 

The rest of the album is nothing to shake a tist at -more run of the mill emo-punk that wants to change lives and pull some tears from the listener, garnering more smirks than anything. "I Don't Love You" doesn't seem to belong on the album, while the ninth track, "Mama," is an interesting gypsy-esque rock manifesto. 
Overall, those in search of decent emo­punk and somewhat interesting lyrics should consider picking up "The Black Parade." However, the countless other bands My Chemical Romance references did the same things first, and often did them better. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 

understand the "Da Vinci Code" and its mythology takes up most of tho movie. Conversely, the flashbacks to the time of' Jesus and the Middle Ages are interest­ing, however historically speculative or inaccurate. 
The DVD comes with an extra disc that contains a slew of extras, a few of which are worth noting. Most of them are logs of the filming process that take the view­er to the different locations that were used during filming. Parts of the film were shot on location in Paris and London, so these provide interesting insights on how the film was made. 
Also, Howard provides the commentary to most of these extras. The sound is available in English and Spanish Dolby 5.1. While other films have exploited this system to its fullest potential, "Da Vinci Code" provides a good sound mix without being groundbreaking. 
Overall, this is a decent lilm with some exciting sequences and an interesting look at what the conspiracy theorists are saying out there. Whether you love the story or hate it, this film is a welcome diversion. "Da Vinci Code" won't shake your intellect, but it's exciting, fast-paced and doesn't ask too much of you. 
Watch it with a bowl of popcorn, and leave your Bible on the shelf. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
The DaVmci Code 

' 
,.' 
Widescreen Two-Disc Special Edition 
Sony Pictures 

to make a solid film. 
However, his pac­ing is slightly off. and aside from a few exceptions, the aeting is wooden and uninspired. The story is inter­esting but doesn't translate very well into film. The back­story needed to 



THE OBSERVER 







CENE
Tuesday, November 21, 2006 
page 11 
EVENT REVIEW 
Asian Allure highlights diverse experiences 
Student production features performances from multiple Asian countries 



HYPHAMfThe The Korean Fan dance is a traditional dance in which performers use fans to make visually stunning formations, one of several excellent performances in Asian Allure. 
By ANALISE LIPARI Assistant Scene Editor 
Washington Hall played host to a vast array of Asian cultures last Thursday and · Friday night, with multiple Asian­American cultural clubs and campus groups performing in the lOth annual Asian Allure. Featuring performances with origins in Vietnam, Korea, Japan and more, the show was a celebration of the joyous diversity of experience and art. 
Asian Allure has come to be a thematic collection of acts by multiple Asian cultur­al organizations from across the Notre Dame campus, whose diverse subjects range from traditional Korean fan danc­ing to modern Hip Hop routines. 
A chance for both well-known and lower-profile campus groups to literally show their stuff, Asian Allure is a mix of humorous characters, fashion shows and powerful performances that gives the average student further essential expo­sure to different cultural experiences within the Notre Dame community. 
The show began with a painstaking per­formance of a traditional Chinese Lion Dance, with two performers underneath an ornate lion costume. The head of the lion was remarkably constructed, with the performers being able to use controls to let the lion's expressive eyes blink at the crowd. Ending with some pretty remark­able acrobatics on the part of the pup­peteers, the Lion Dance was a strong way to open a consistently entertaining evening of performances and fashion. 
The overall theme of this year's Asian Allure was that of a journey, as the show featured two friends (Thao Nguyen and Zach Eberbach) traveling throughout Asia (stopping in several American cities, like New York and Chicago, along the way) during their spring break. 
The two, acting as both hosts and char­acters, humorously helped the show progress from segment to segment in their 
.roles as spectators. 
The concept of the journey itself was a way for those participating in Asian Allure to vocalize and make known their feelings about the Asian-American community within Notre Dame. 
"The show was centered around the motif of a journey, which I think is a very powerful theme," sophomore and Korean Fan dance choreographer Laura Wilczek said. "The Asian-American students at Notre Dame have embarked on a true journey; a lot of students come from abroad, some from all over the nation, and others are Asian-American adoptees." 
Wilczek and others see this idea as a reflection of the Asian-American experi­ence at Notre Dame. Specifically this year's theme, "Illumination," provided those participating in Asian Allure with the chance to both reflect on their paths and enlighten others about their unique journey. 
"Everyone has a story. Asian Allure was a way [for] the Asian-American communi­ty on campus [to] share a little bit about their culture and the unique gifts they brought to campus --to, in a way, 'strengthen the family,'" Wilczek said. 
While each segment was interesting and well-performed, several were definitely standout moments of the evening. 
The first of several fashion segments, featuring traditional clothing from the countries represented during Asian 

Allure, was fairly early in the evening. It was fascinating to see the different outfits on stage, noting the differences between a Vietnamese woman's clothing and that of a traditional Korean woman. Even a Japanese samurai was noted in this par­ticular fashion display, and overall the variety of outfits contributed again to the overall sense of diversity and variety. 
The Hip Hop dances from the show's first half, which featured break dancing and other types of dance, provided the show with a flashy, exciting departure from some of the quieter, more traditional acts within the evening's repertoire of acts. The use of recognizable music helped connect these performances to an eager audience, and the overwhelming impression of enjoyment emanating from each performer made the acts that much more fun to watch. 
The Korean Fan dance and the Chinese Ribbon dance were two among several examples of more traditional performance art that were featured during the show. The former, during which performers cre­ate visually engaging formations with Korean fans, was fascinating in its use of movement to make a symbolic "mountain" or "flower." 
The Ribbon dance also used props, here traditional Chinese ribbons (streamer-like strands of cloths attached to small rods) to give an impression of ethereal, colorful lines floating across the stage. 
The Korean costumes, kimono-like out­fits known as hanboks, were colorful reminders of the heritage being celebrat­ed. The simplicity of the Ribbon dance performers' costumes -black shirts and pants with a dark red design on the front · of each shirt -allowed the ribbons to lit­erally take center stage, giving the audi­ence a chance to focus on this visually captivating art. 
Other excellent performances among the exemplary group of acts were the acoustic version of John Lennon's "Imagine," juxtaposed against a starkly powerful slide show of the Asian­American experience, the traditional Hawaiian dance and the final act, a tradi­tional Indian dance reminiscent of the increasingly well-known Bollywood tradi­tion in cinema. 
The future of Asian Allure is, according to its participants, a bright one that will continue to be a significant part of the Notre Dame community. 
"I can see Asian Allure continuing for a long time," Wilzcek said. "We have a lot of support from the greater Notre Dame community, which is fantastic." 
The welcoming nature of the show also gives students a chance to learn about someone other than himself or herself an inevitably central component to being a citizen of today's world. 
"I think Asian Allure is a great way for people to learn more about different cul­tures," Wilzcek said. 
"Everyone is invited to participate in Asian Allure, even if they are not A<>ian, [which] makes Asian Allure all the more special. It is a chance for people to put their differences aside and work together as a group, with the goal [of] educating the greater student body," she said. 
Consistently well-performed and fasci­nating, this year's Asian Allure will be remembered for continuing a tradition of welcoming and sharing at Notre Dame. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
HY PHAM/The Observer 

The Hip Hop dancers were a more modern addition to Asian Allure. The diverse cast reflected the show's aim to increase cultural relations and understanding. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November 21, 2006 
NHL 

Penguins remain unbeaten by in-state rivals 
Vanek, Gaustad both score twice as Buffalo tallies seven goals in the second period to rout the Lightning Monday 
Associated Press the Sabres, who won for the Blue Jackets, who have 
sixth time in eight games. dropped a season-high six 

PHILADELPHIA -Ryan Martin St. Louis had two straight. Columbus entered Whitney had a goal and two goals for Tampa Bay, which lost with the fewest points (11) and assists, and Sidney Crosby and its second straight. goals scored (39) in the NHL Dominic Moore each added a It was the fifth time the and was nearly shut out for the goal and an assist as the Sabres scored six or more third time in five contests. Pittsburgh Penguins defeated goals this season, and the sec­Columbus' Adam Foote, who the Philadelphia Flyers 5-3 on ond time in five games that entered a team-worst minus-Monday night. they had seven. 11, couldn't keep a bouncing 
John LeClair and Sergei Ryan Miller made 24 saves to puck in the Nashville zone. Gonchar also scored for the win for the first time since Nov. Erat banked a lead pass off the Penguins, who snapped their 2. He missed four games in the boards to Kariya, who scooped four-game, road-losing streak middle of the month with an it up, cut in alone down the left and handed the Flyers their abdominal strain. wing and beat goaltender fifth straight home loss. St. Louis gave the Lightning a Fredrik Norrena with a back­
Simon Gagne, Geoff 1-0 first-period lead before the hand move to make it 1-0 at Sanderson, and Frederick Sabres broke loose for seven 9:49 of the first period. Meyer scored for the Flyers, goals on 13 shots in the middle Nashville made it 2-0 early in who trailed 3-0 after the first frame against Lightning goalie the second period on a power­period. Marc Denis, making his second play goal by Nichol. Steve 
The Penguins are 4-0 against start in seven games. Sullivan skated the length of the Flyers this season, outscor­Gaustad, who also added an the ice, fending off several Blue ing them 20-7. assist, opened the scoring on Jackets players. lie put on the 
Whitney threaded a cross-ice the power play for Buffalo, brakes and sent a cross-ice pass to LeClair, who flicked the fighting off Tampa Bay pass to David Legwand at the puck past goalie Antero defenseman Luke Richardson left circle. Legwand one-timed Niittymaki 35 seconds in for along the side of the net to the puck to Nichol for a tap-in. the Penguins' first goal on a knock the puck in after it power play. bounced off the end boards off Florida 3, Boston 2 
Moore made it 2-0 at 4:31 a shot from Maxim Afinogenov. Alex Auld made 29 saves, after taking a spectacular cen­Novotny scored 63 seconds Martin Gelinas scored a power­tering pass from Crosby, who later, and Vanek made it 3-1 at play goal and the Florida streaked down the ice, stopped 7:48 of the second. Panthers snapped Boston's sea­at the circle, spun around and son-high, four-game winning put the puck on Moore's stick. Nashville 3; Columbus 1 streak with a victory over the 
Whitney scored with nine Paul Kariya and Martin Erat Bruins on Monday night. seconds left in the period, beat­each had a goal and an assist Joe Nieuwendyk netted a ing Niittymaki high following a as the Nashville Predators beat third-period, power-play goal scramble. the Columbus Blue Jackets and Nathan Horton scored in 
Monday night. the second period for the Buffalo 7, Tampa Bay 2 Tomas Vokoun lost his Panthers, who won for the sec­
Thomas Vanek and Paul shutout bid with 15 seconds left ond time in seven games. It Gaustad each scored twice in but finished with 23 saves in was Florida's second road win Buffalo's seven-goal second his 1Oth win of the season for of the season (2-6-3). period, and Ales Kotalik had the Predators, who defeated Glen Murray scored his team­three assists to lead the Sabres Columbus for the third time in leading 1Oth and 11th goals for to a win over the Tampa Bay six days. Scott Nichol also Boston, which had its longest Lightning on Monday night. scored for the Nashville, which winning streak since March 
Jiri Novotny, Jaroslav Spacek won 13 of16. 2004 stopped. and Chris Drury also scored for Jason Chimera scored for the Tim Thomas, making his fifth 

AP Pittsburgh goaltender Marc-Andre Fleury watches as Flyers left wing Simon Gagne misses a breakaway opportunity. Gagne later scored, but Philadelphia lost Monday's game 5-3. 

straight start for the Bruins, stopped 25 shots. 
The Bruins cut the deficit to 3-2 on Murray's second goal with 5:04 to play, but Boston couldn't get the tying goal despite pulling Thomas for an extra skater for the final 1 :06. The Bruins didn't even record a shot with Thomas out. 
Unlike the teams' other meet­ing this season, an 8-3 win by the Panthers on opening night, this game had strong goaltend­ing and tougher defense. 
Nieuwendyk made it 3-1 with just over 10 minutes left, but Murray completed a 2-on-1 break with a wrister past Auld's glove. 
Stephen Weiss set up Gelinas' goal to break a scoreless tie 
15:14 into the opening period. Weiss fired a pass to Gelinas, who redirected a backhand shot past Thomas from the edge of the crease. 
Auld made the lead stand up with some steady play until Horton's goal made it 2-0 at 
14:47 of the second. Horton one-timed a rising shot over Thomas off a centering pass from Olli Jokinen. 
Toronto 4 New York Islanders 2 
Darcy Tucker scored his 13th goal and the Toronto Maple Leafs held on for a victory over the New Yo·rk Islanders on Monday night. 
John Pohl, Kyle Wellwood 
and Alexei Ponikarovsky also 
scored for the Maple Leafs, 
who ended a two-game losing 
skid. 
Toronto outshot New York 
33-21, including 13-5 in the 
first. 

The Maple Leafs have had offensive trouble lately without captain Mats Sundin (torn elbow ligament), but Tucker ·continued to impress on the power play, scoring his NHL­leading 1Oth goal with the man advantage. He is on pace to surpass the career-high 28 
goals he scored last season. 
Toronto's Andrew Raycroft 
made 19 saves after missing 
three games with a strained 
groin. 
Chris Simon and Jason Blake 
scored for the Islanders, who 
finished 3-1-1 on their road 
trip. New York played its fourth 
game in six days. 
Pohl scored the first of 
Toronto's three first-period 
goals at 2:53 with a shot from 
the side of the net. 
Maple Leafs defenseman Ian 
White failed to clear the puck 
before Simon put a screened 
one-timer past Raycraft at 5:03 
of the first. 
Just 51 seconds later, 
Wellwood restored Toronto's 
lead by scoring from the side 
the net after goalie Rick 
DiPietro skated too far in front 
of his net. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds inust be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Furnished 1 bdrm Jamison condo. Nov-May 07. 
LOST & FOUND WANTED FoR SALE FoR RENT Call Mary Anne PERSONAL 
607-723-7363 or 

607-770-0944. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do LOST: WINTER BREAK WORK $17.25 ND Horne Games, BLUE & GOLD HOMES, not go it alone. If you or someone Adult cat from Angela Blvd. base-appt. Flexible schedules, no Hassei-Free Lodging. off-campus homes & weekend 3-6 Bedroom homes, walking dis­you love needs confidential support Dark gray with white "bib". exp. needed, may continue in the 3 Bdrm horne/5min.walk from stadi­rentals. tance, washer, dryer. MMM Rentals. or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Green eyes, spring, customer sales/service, um. A one-time fee of $99,000 Bluegoldrentals.com Contact Gary Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more 1 0 lb. neutered male. cond. apply, all ages 17+, positions to buy a nice, clean home for all 574-993-2208. information, visit our web site at Kids miss him. in all of Indiana & Michigan, apply games: HOUSING FOR 2007:2008 http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­Please Call if spotted now, start after finals. 574-273-3835 For more info call 2-6 Bedrooms Furnished 4-bdr house. Walk ND. nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad 57 4-232-1584. www.winterbreakwork.com 574-360-8707. www.NDstudentrentals.com 574-287-4961. in The Observer. 





OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, November 21, 2006 CoMPiLED rRoM THE ()BSERVER'S \AfiRE SERVLCES page 13 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Ryan Howard had a season that defied convention, one that made him only the second player voted Rookie of the Year and Most Valuable Player in consecutive years. 0 
"I heard sophomore jinx this, sophomore jinx that," he said after beating out 2005 NL MVP Albert Pujols for the award Monday. "I just prepared myself in spring training to go out and perform, stick with my game plan and have fun." 
After leading the major leagues in home runs and RBI, Howard received 20 first-place votes and 12 seconds for 388 points in balloting by a panel of the Baseball Writers' Association of America. Pujols got 12 firsts, 19 sec­onds and one third for 347 points. 

Cal Ripken Jr. (1982 and 1983) is the only other player to follow a Rookie of the Year award with an MVP the following year. Two players won both in the same year: Fred Lynn (1975) and Ichiro Suzuki (2001). 
"It's definitely a relief. It's a good birthday present," said Howard, who turned 27 Sunday. 
Howard had 58 homers -the most in the majors since Barry Bonds hit a record 73 in 2001 -and 149 RBI while batting .313. He set Phillies records for home runs and RBI, pro­ducing the highest totals in those categories in big league history for a second­year player. Twenty-three of Howard's homers put the Phillies ahead and five tied games. The Phillies went 32-18 when he homered. 
Howard didn't make it to the major leagues for good until July 1, 2005, when Jim Thome went on the disabled list. He batted .288 for the Phillies in 2005 with 22 homers and 63 RBI in 321 at-bats. 
"It's been a fun ride," Howard said. "You can't really just sit there and kind of dwell on what's gone on in the past and all that kind of stuff and what's going to happen as far as being traded or what my future was with the Phillies. The only thing I could have done was just go out and play and let everything else just kind of sort itself out." 
Howard won the All-Star Home Run Derby and in June connected off the Yankees' Mike Mussina for the first homer to reach the third deck in the three-year history of Citizens Bank Park, a drive estimated at 461 feet. 
"l didn't think it was humanly possible to do something like that," Howard said. 
NCAA Hockey CCHA Standings 
league team points record 

1 Miami (Ohio} 
2 Michigan 
3 Ohio Stale 4 NOTRE DAME 
5 Michigan St. 
6 N. Michigan 


7 W. Michigan 9 4·54 
8 Alaska 8 3·1•2 
9 lake Superior 6 
10 Neb.·Omaha 5 ~:~:1. iF· 
11 Ferris Slate 3 1·64 
12 Bowling Green 2 1-7·0 
NCAA Football Harris Poll 

overall record 
5-5~1 
5·2-3 8·4.0 
3-6~3 
3·8-1 
3·8-1 
team record points previous 

1 Ohio State :12·0 2850 1 2 usc 9·1 2621 3 3 Michigan 11-1 2600 2 4 Florida 10·1 2531 4 5 NOTRE DAME 10·1 2347 5 6 Arkansas 10·1 2a45 6 7 West Virginia 9·1 2051 8 8 lSU 9·2 1889 9 9 Wisconsin 11·1 1888 11 10 louisville 9·1 1857 to· 
12··n••······

11 Texas 9·2 1731 12 Boise State 11·0 1609 13 13 Au bum 10·2 1449 15 14 Oklahoma 9·2 1404 16 15 Rutgers 9·1 1270 16 Georgia Tech 9·2 1157 18 17 Virginia Tech 9·2 1049 19 18 Boston College 9·2 927 20 19 Tennessee 8·3 675 22iE'••:·· 20 Wake Forest 9·2 685 14 
around the dial 
NBA 
Chicago at Denver 9 p.m., Comcast 
NBA 
Bowling Green at Toledo 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NHL 
Carolina at New York Rangers 7 p.m., Versus 
IN BRIEF 
Former Eagle DB Waters 
commits suicide 
TAMPA, Fla. -Andre Waters, a defensive back who spent most of his 12 seasons in the NFL with the Philadelphia Eagles, was found dead of a self-inflicted gunshot wound early Monday. He was 44. 
His body was found at about 1:30 
a.m. at his Tampa home, the medical examiner's office said. He had shot himself in the head. Toxicology reports were ordered and results will be available in four to six weeks, the office said. 
Waters' body was found by his girl­friend, Hillsborough County sheriff's spokeswoman Debbie Carter said. The woman's name was not available, and the sheriff's office had no further details, Carter added. 
"What a devastating piece of news," Eagles radio voice Merrill Reese said in a statement on the team's Web site. "Andre was a guy who could light up a room with his personality." 

Olympic swimming champ
Thorpe retires 
SYDNEY, Australia -Five-time Olympic champion Ian Thorpe retired from competitive swimming Tuesday at the age of 24, saying breaking records "wasn't as inspir­ing as it should have been." 
Thorpe, who held a news confer­ence at a Sydney hotel, said he decided at "2:53 on Sunday after­noon" not to swim at next year's world championships in Melbourne and to end his pro swimming career. 
"It's been a tough decision to make," he said. "I had to pick a time, that was the time. None of my goals included breaking any more world records. I knew how to do it, but it wasn't as inspiring as it should have been." 
Speculation swirled for months about whether Thorpe planned to pull out of the world championships or quit the sport entirely. 
Yankees agree to two-year
deal for Mussina 
NEW YORK -Mike Mussina and the New York Yankees reached a pre­liminary agreement Monday on a $23 million, two-year contract. 
Mussina is scheduled to take a phys­ical Tuesday that would allow the deal to be finalized. He declined comment on the agreement, saying he would refrain from any remarks until a tele­phone conference call Wednesday. 
A right-hander who turns 38 on Dec. 8, Mussina left the Baltimore Orioles after the 2000 season to sign an $88.5 million, six-year contract with the Yankees. He was 15-7 with a 
3.51 ERA this year. 
New York declined a $17 million option last week, paying a $1.5 million buyout, but the Yankees have said since the end of the season that they hoped to keep Mussina. Some of the money in his new contract will be deferred, lowering its present-day value for purposes of the luxury tax. 
-

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 21, 2006 
PGA 

Tiger attempts to win seventh straight Slam 
world, no." but it doesn't mean when you and dropping out of the pro­next year."
Furyk and Woods will 
Woods has won a record six tee it up you don't want to play am. Weir said he's not looking for straight times in seven tries. well," he said. Woods' two major wins this payback against Ogilvy.
battle this weekend at 
He won in 2005, '02, '01, '00, Ogilvy is the only player year gives him 12 in his Ogilvy won the Accenture Poipu for the honors 1999 and '98. He was runner­making his Grand Slam debut. career, which is second only to Match Play Championship up to Ernie Els in '97. "This is my first time here, Jack Nicklaus' 18. He also has after rallying back from 4­Associated Press Woods and Furyk, who fin­but you only have to beat three a string of six straight tour down with four to play in the ished a career-best second on guys," Ogilvy said. wins heading into 2007. third round against Weir. 
POIPU BEACH, Hawaii -the money list, But one of But the year They faced off Tiger Woods and Jim Furyk are joined by U.S those guys is was marred by in a playoff with can't agree on who will win Open champion named Tiger. the death of his Ogilvy winning the Grand Slam of Golf. Geoff Ogilvy and ':4m I the favorite? Championship father, Earl, who with an eagle-3
"From May on,
Woods, the world's No. 1 2003 Masters rd have to say, with banners featur­died of cancer on the 21st hole. golfer and winner of the winners Mike ing Woods wear­May 3. Jim's been on one It was the win
the best player in 

British Open and PGA Weir. ing a floral lei Woods simply unbelievable run. " at Winged Foot, Championship this season, With Woods the world, no." and a wide grin described his however, that considers Furyk the one to claiming two line the walkway year as "a loss." made Ogilvy a
Tiger Woods
beat. majors this year, from the club­Weir is the only hero in his native
Jim Furyk

"From May on, Jim's been on Furyk earned his house to the first member of the golfer Australia and
golfer

one unbelievable run," said second invite to tee at the ocean-foursome without changed his life. Woods, when asked the Kauai based on side course. a tour victory "I can't fly favorite in the exclusive four­his performance "Over the this season. The under the radar mao event reserved for the -two wins and a tour-leading years, I've always felt comfort­last winless player to play in at a golf tournament like I year's major winners. 11 top-five finishes. Weir, the able playing here," Woods the Grand Slam was Davis used to do," he said. "I used to 
The 36-hole tournament 2003 Masters winner, replaced said. "I don't know why that is. Love Ill in 2002. be able to turn out for a golf begins Tuesday. Phil Mickelson. I seemed to have shot some "In 2003, I came over here tournament and no one would 
''I'm one-for-one, but Tiger's Furyk said the players enjoy pretty low scores around and had a really good time and notice I was there." something like six-for-seven," "goofing around," lounging by here." didn't take it really seriously," All four players will go home said Furyk, a part-time Hawaii the pool and the relaxed island Last year, he closed with an the Canadian said. ''I'm still a little richer. The winner of resident who's undefeated at atmosphere. 8-under 64 to win by seven having fun over here, but I the Grand Slam will take home Poipu, winning in 2003. "Am I "You probably won't see any­strokes over Mickelson, want to get two good rounds $500,000, with the fourth­the favorite? I'd have to say, one killing themselves at the despite losing 6 pounds under my belt and kind of go place finisher earning with the best player in the range or anything like that, because of a stomach virus in with a good mind-set for $200,000. 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Memphis opens up Maui Invite 
AP 

Memphis guard Antonio Anderson pulls up for a jump shot over Oklahoma's Michael Neal Monday in the Lahaina Civic Center. 
Associated Press 
LAHAINA, Hawaii Memphis coach John Calipari doesn't hesitate to say what players love to hear. 
"We're a team trying to play fast," he said. 
The 12th-ranked Tigers did just that Monday in a 77-65 victory over Oklahoma in the opening-round of the EA Sports Maui Invitational. 
The Tigers were far from perfect, committing 18 turnovers and missing 17 free throws, but their speed and balanced attack made life mis­erable for Oklahoma, which had 21 turnovers. 
"Memphis did a great job of spreading the floor and driv­ing. That's a very unselfish team," first-year Oklahoma coach Jeff Capel said. "Their pressure took us out of a lot of things we like to do." 
Robert Dozier had 13 points to lead Memphis, which starts three sophomores and a fresh­man and had eight players score between 13 and six points. 
"That's our style of play," 

sophomore guard Antonio Anderson said. "Coach makes a point that one of us doesn't have to be the star and that together with that equal bal­ance we can do what we like to do." 
The Tigers (2-0) will play No. 19 Georgia Tech (4-0), which beat Purdue 79-61, in the semifinals on Tuesday. 
Memphis took control at the start of the second half by hit­ting seven of its first 10 shots to lead 58-42 with 12:04 left. 
Oklahoma (2-1) drew within 10 points twice, the last at 69­59 with 4:36 left on two free throws by Michael Neal. The Tigers, however, were able to improve their foul shooting and keep their lead over the final 2 1/2 minutes. 
"We missed about 15 layups, too," Calipari said when asked about the early trouble at the foul line. "These kids made them when they mattered." 
The Tigers missing 14 of their first 27 free throw attempts before finishing 20­for-37. 
Neal, who missed the Sooners' first two games 
because of a suspension over playing in an unsanctioned summer league, finished with 18 points. Taylor Griffin added 16 points and 10 rebounds. 
"We didn't handle the pres­sure well," Capel said. "We didn't attack it the way we wanted to get easy shots. When they have success it ignites them and they came at us in waves." 
Freshman Willie Kemp had 12 points for Memphis, while Anderson and Andre Allen had 10 each. 
"Willie's a little nervous right now," Calipari said. "He had 12 points, one assist, two turnovers. That's not bad, but I'm telling him to let loose, be more reckless." 
Oklahoma scored the opening basket of the second half to get within 39-34, but Anderson and Allen hit 3s on consecutive possessions to start Memphis' hot streak from the field. 
"Those 3's gave us a lot of momentum," Anderson said. "We weren't shooting well in the first half and those got us back to the way we want to play to control the tempo." 
CSTUDENTS To 

-
-
. 
' . 

Tuesday, November 21, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
CLUB SPORTS 
Water Polo finishes 13th at national tourney 
LaPoint, Beuke score two each in 6-0 shutout victory over Club Hot Wings to move record to 2-1 on the season 
Special to The Observer 
Men's Water Polo 
The 11th-ranked Irish trounced Columbia 14-5, and secured a 13th-place finish ­tying their previous best -at the CWPA National Club Championships this past weekend at Miami (OH) University. 
Captains Patrick Connors and Stephen Shepard led the Irish with five and four goals, respectively. Freshman Sean Rooney, sophomores Avery Ambrose and Tom Fletcher and junior Colin Dunn also scored in the game. 
The Irish finished the week­end 1-2, and their two losses came to the eventual National Champions -Michigan State -and No. 7 Slippery Rock. 
The first round matchup against the Spartans saw both teams produce bursts of offense throughout, as Connors put the Irish on the board less than a minute and a half into the contest. The Spartans then caught fire, 
scoring five unanswered goals to go up 5-l with four minutes remaining in the second quar­ter. Scores from Fletcher, freshman Craig Bentzen, and Connors put the Irish right back in it, making it a 5-4 game at halftime. 
The Irish failed to contain national player of the year Jon Haga in the second half, and a late thi_rd-quarter run by MSU put the game out of reach. Shepard, Dunn, Fletcher and Connors tallied for Notre Dame in the second half, and the final score read 12-8. 
That same evening, the Irish came back to play No. 7 Slippery Rock, a former varsi­ty program that became club this past year. Despite strong defense by Dunn and captain Jon Kelly, the Irish continu­ously missed opportunities on 6-on-5's and outside shots. Freshman goalie Dave Mazur was strong and made six saves, but the Irish offense never seemed to get going. Fletcher led the Irish with two goals, as Connors, Kelly and Shepard each had individual scores in the game. 
This year's Notre Dame team was only the third Irish Men's team to make it to nationals. The Irish are look­ing forward to next year, as senior captain Stephen Shepard will be the only loss from the starting seven. 
Women's Ice Hockey 
After splitting a pair of sea­son opening games at Ohio State last weekend, Notre Dame skated to a 6-0 victory over Club Hot Wings of Rockford, Ill. at South Bend's Ice Box. The Irish came out strong, scoring just two min­utes into the action on a shot by sophomore Lauren Beuke, a strong defensemen who was pulled up to play forward for the day. 
With only 15 seconds left in the first period, senior Julia LaPoint scored on an assist from junior winger Kara Brennan and sophomore defensemen Katie Burns to 

MLB 
Mets sign Alou to one-year deal 
40-year-old veteran gets $8.5 million to play left field at Shea 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Moises Alou 
gives the New York Mets a 
proven right-handed hitter to 
play left field -and another 
aging regular. 
The 40-year-old slugger finalized an $8.5 million, one­year contract on Monday with the NL East champions, who also declined their $14 million option on left-bander Tom Glavine and swapped young pitchers with the Florida Marlins in a four-player trade. 
Alou's deal includes a $7.5 million club option for 2008 with $1 million buyout. The six-time All-Star, who gets a $7.5 million salary next sea­son, said he turned down two-year offers from other teams to join the Mets. 
"The length of my contract doesn't really matter at this point in my career," Alou said. "I wanted to come here because this year -I wanted to win this year." 
New York reached Game 7 of Atlanta. Earlier this month, the two-tirrie NL Cy Young Award winner declined his $7.5 million option to stay with the Mets, who still would like to keep him. 
"I really don't anticipate anything until he gets back this weekend," said Glavine's 
the NL champi­onship series this year before losing to the St. Louis Cardinals, who went on to win the World Series. Glavine was a big part of that suc­cess, going 15-7 with a 3.82 ERA during the season and 2-1 with a 
"I wanted to come here because this year -I wanted to win this year. " 
Moises Alou New York outfielder 
agent, Gregg Clifton. "I think this really is going to be his evaluation peri­od. By early next week, he should finish his analysis and know what he wants to do." 
When Glavine restructured his deal this year, the 
1.59 ERA in three playoff starts. 
But he will be 41 when next season begins and is deciding between staying in New York and trying to return home to 


AKgel Nails Spa 

Hours:_;\, -,, ~i®J:tf!'b­

Mo~}GSAtur~y'1~:..-apm 
Suttday 12pm--5pm 

Limited time offers for students: 10% off with a Full Service. 
Mets agreed not to exercise their $14 million option if he hadn't yet decided where he wanted to play. The move Monday -the deadline for the team option -was a formali­ty. 
"We hope to continue to speak with the agent, negoti­ate, and hopefully be able to bring Tommy back," general manager Omar Minaya said. "We let them know ahead of time that we were going to make this move." 
Even if Glavine departs, the Mets will have plenty of veter­ans on the field next year. They recently re-signed 41­year-old pitcher Orlando Hernandez to a $12 million, two-year contract and 
-retained 3 7 -year-old second baseman Jose Valentin with a $3.8 million, one-year deal. New York also brought in 3 7 -year-old backup infielder Damian Easley, adding him to a bench that already include-s 48-year-old Julio Franco. All-Star catcher Paul Lo Duca will turn 35 in April, and right fielder Shawn Green is 
34. Two of New York's best players, however, are 23: David Wright and Jose Reyes. 

make it 2-0. 
In the second period, Beuke fired home her second goal of the game off of a pass from sophomore Sarah Williams. LaPoint later scored unassist­ed on a breal.\away. 
Later in the second period LaPoint scored once more, assisted by sophomore Liz Lefebvre, to earn her first hat trick of the season. Senior Annie Tilton scored the final Irish goal, and senior Brittany Hartford and sophomore Margaret Knoedler added assists. 
Club members will next travel to Missouri to face the St. Louis Surge Dec. 2-3. 
Equestrian 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's placed a very close third in t)lis weekend's show at Purdue. The host Boilermakers and Indiana shared high point honors in the 12-team field with 32 points each, while the Irish finished just behind them with 30. 
Claire Freeman paced the Irish with a first in open flats with Lauren Desrosiers and Katie Baron tied for second, Andrea Oliverio fifth, and Kelsey Ostberg and Allie Minnis tied for seventh. Ostberg, Baron and Minnis took third, fourth and seventh, respectively, in open fences. Hayden Piscal was second and Brittany Gragg finished fourth in intermediate flats. 
Krista Jones also captured a first place in novice flat, and Alisha Wilkinson finished sec­ond with Jennifer Gilardi fourth in that event. Gilardi and Jones also finished fifth and sixth, respectively, in novice fences. 
Kathry Ozimek took first in walk-trot, and Catherine Gerner finished third. Brittany Vechell took another first for the Irish in beginner walk­trot-canter. Courtney Hofman and Katie Sabella tied for sec­ond, and Nicole Gansolves and Courtney Klosterman tied for fourth. 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish place in botto111 half at NCAA 111eet 
Runners disappointed with finish to season 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's promising run ended Monday with a disap­pointing 19th place finish at the 31-team NCAA Championships in Terre Haute, Ind. 
"I think overall we're disap­pointed," Irish sophomore Patrick Smyth said. "But I think most people are a little bit pissed off, so I think that'll be good come track season." 
The Irish finished with 495 total points, far back from Colorado, which won the meet runner faltered Monday, Smyth picked up the slack, finishing 36th with a 31:41.7 mark that earned him All-American hon­ors -given to both the top 35 fmishers and top 35 American finishers at the Championship. 
"I was pretty happy with [my result]," Smyth said. "The course was real muddy today so I think that took its toll on everybody. Some people dealt with it better than others." 
Rounding out the top five for the Irish were junior Jake Watson (33:04.4, 159), fresh­man Jake Walker (33:09.2, 
169) and senior Todd Ptacek 

with 94 points. (33: 15.8, 17 5).
"I think most
Notre Dame Despite the 
was hoping for a people are a little disappointing top-10 finish at pissed off, so I finish, the Irish the NCAA meet, are confident
think that will be
especially after they can use it
good come track 
finishing second as motivation to behind only top­season.,, succeed in the ranked Wisconsin upcoming track at the Great season -which
Patrick Smyth 
Lakes Regional starts in just two 
Irish sophomore 
Nov. 11. Irish weeks. 
runners encoun­tered a muddy course in Terre Haute that they could not overcome. 
"The course was completely saturated and we did the same kind of course last weekend," Smyth said. "So two weeks in a row of real sloppy course is going to take its toll." 
Another key factor in Notre Dame's finish was senior Kurt Benninger's 32:54.4 132nd­place finish in the 10,000­meter race -an unexpected. result, since Benninger gar­nered All-American honors for his finishes in the last two NCAA Championships. 
Although Notre Dame's top "I think we're 
all motivated even more so now to run some quick times in track," Smyth said. 
The Irish women had one representative at the NCAA Championships, junior Sunni Olding, whose time of 22:27.8 was good for 142nd place. Olding received an individual invitational to the Championship because of her sixth-place finish at the Great Lakes Regional. 
The Observer could not reach Olding Monday for comment. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 21, 2006 
ND VOLLEYBALL 



Irish face Ohio U. at Louisville Invite 

HY PHAMfThe Obse!Ver Freshman Christina Kaelin spikes a ball over a West Virginia defender in a 3-0 win Nov. 12 at the Joyce Center. 
ND will attempt to end Bobcats' 20-game winning streak Friday 
By DEVIN PRESTON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame has one more chance to prove it belongs in the NCAA Tournament. After losing 3-2 to Louisville in the Big East finals, the Irish host No. 18 Ohio this Friday at 5 
p.m. in the Louisville Invitational. Ohio (27 -3) won its fourth consecutive Mid­American Conference Tournament last weekend. The Irish (18-12) will look to 
put an end to the Bobcats' 20-match win­ning streak. 
"The team is very motivat­ed," Irish coach Debbie Brown said, "because they understand the signifi­cance of the matches they are playing now. The 
game at .3 79. Irish kill leader junior Adrianna Stasiuk, who has 300 kills, tallies 3.03 kills per game, and is helped out by freshman Christina Kaelin's 291 kills (an average of 3.51 kills per game). 
Defensively, senior libero Danielle Herndon leads the Irish with 5.11 digs per game. 
As a team, Ohio averages 
18.29 digs per game com­pared to Notre Dame's 17.70. The Irish have the statistical edge in blocking and serving. Notre Dame averages 2.9 blocks per game, compared to Ohio's 2.2. 
Outside of junior Stephanie Blackburn's 0.48 aces per game, the Bobcats are not as deep serving as Notre Dame, as the Irish have seven play­
"The team is very motivated because they understand the significance ofthe .matches they are playing now. " 
Debbie Brown Irish coach 
ers with 15 or more aces this season. 
Although Notre Dame, which is 1-4 against ranked teams, lost in the finals of the Big East Tournament, this final reg­ular season match up against Ohio is 
importance of these matches is really what's driving them." 
The Ohio offense is led by freshman outside hitter Ellen Herman and junior middle blocker Melissa Griffin. Both players have seen action in all 100 of the Bobcats' games this season. Herman averages 
4.22 kills per game at a hit­ting percentage of .303, and Griffin has 3. 97 kills per 
keeping hopes of an NCAA appearance alive. 
"It's really hard to deter­mine," said Brown of a possi­ble NCAA Tournament appearance. "Having already won against St. John's -a ranked team -a win against Ohio will put us in a much better position." 
Contact Devin Preston at dpresto@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles win in dratnatic fashion 
Kessler hits layup and free throw in final minute to pull ahead 
By BILL BRINK and DAN COOPER Sports Writers 

Saint Mary's took the lead in the final minute to pull out a nail-biter against Anderson University 72-69 Monday. 
With 41 seconds left, Belles junior guard Alison Kessler took control and drove the lane, drew contact and sunk the layup. Kessler, who was 6-for-6 from behind the line in the second half, sank her seventh free throw of the game to put tho Belles ahead 70-69. 
"The help-side defense wasn't paying attention, so I drove the lane," Kessler said. 
The free throw gave her 26 points to go with l'ive assists on the night, including a three-pointer with 1:27 remaining that tied the score us," she said. "That sealed the deal. That's a freshman coming through." The Belles bench came up big, lilling in for starters who saw a lot of playing time over the week­end. Sophomore forward Erin 
Newsom scored 10 points in just 22 minutes and grabbed five rebounds. Krammrath brought down six boards in her 19 minutes on the court. 
The first half was slow­paced and low scoring. The Belles could not get their 
67-67. 

"Kessler's our bread
Following 

and butter, but the 
Kessler's free throw, the defense and key Ravens got a 
rebounds gave us 
shot off in the 

an edge."
final seconds, but the jumper was no good Jennifer Henley and Belles 
Belles coach 
freshman Anna Krammrath pulled down the rebound to secure the game. 
"We kept our composure," Belles head coach Jennifer Henley said. "Kessler's our bread and butter, but the defense and key rebounds gave us an edge." 
Henley was also impressed offensive strategy based on by Krammrath 's play. one-on-one isolation. "That rebound was huge for "We tried to get more four­
"The help-side defense wasn't paying attention, so I drove the lane. " 
Alison Kessler junior guard 
out, one-in situ­ations," Henley said. "We looked to attack the basket and drive and draw fouls." 
The Belles defense also locked down in the s•~cond half. 
The  man-to­ 
man  pressure  
was  much  

tighter than in 
offense clicking, and the Ravens' constant move­ment penetrat­ed their defense. Saint Mary's went into the locker room down 34­28. 
"We started off rough," sen­ior guard Bridget Lipke 
said. "We've had three games in four days, our legs were tired, but we pushed through and helped each other out." 
The Belles looked sharp after the break to get back in the game. Henley credits the turnaround to executing an 
the first half and wreaked havoc with the Havens' offen­sive setup. 
"We looked to trap on ball screens," Henley said. "We knew [Anderson guard Melenda Hawthorne] was a great shooter, and we wanted to make sure she didn't get 
I o o k s " 
Hawthorne finished with 18 points on. 7-of-14 shooting. Haven center Stacie Jennings was a presence on the glass, grabbing nine rebounds to go with her 13 points. 
Overall, Henley was pleased with her team's per­formance. 
''I'm real proud," she said. "Ifwas a tough stretch, and a good opener at home." 
The Belles (1-2) hope to fol­low up their win as they host Manchester College tonight at 7 p.m. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu and Dan Cooper at dcooper 1 @ndedu 
The Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business and The Institute for Ethical BNSiness Worldwide 
Proudly Present 

Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
"Integrity Selling in the 21st Century" 
Ron Willingham CEO and founder of Integrity Systems 
Monday, November 27, 2006 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College ofBusiness 
Tuesday, November 21, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Elite 
continued from page 20 
still working on getting the Irish (15-5-2, 10-4-0 Big East) -who will travel to take on the Cavaliers (14-4-0, 6-4 ACC) -out to Charlottesville during the Thanksgiving travel rush. 
"The biggest hurdle for us right now is getting our travel plans booked on the busiest weekend of the year," he said. 
The Irish have advanced this far by topping both Illinois­Chicago and No. 5 Maryland 1­0 in the second and third rounds of the NCAA Tournament, respectively, after receiving a first-round bye. Junior striker Joseph Lapira, who leads the nation with 22 goals, scored the deciding and only goal in each match. Saturday's win over the Terrapins marked the second straight season that the Irish have bounced the defending NCAA champions from the tournament, as they beat in­state rival Indiana 2-0 in the second round a season ago. 
Lapira and senior midfielder Greg Dalby will lead the Irish effort Friday. Each was named Big East player of the year at his respective position, and both are semifinalists for the Missouri Athletic Club Hermann Trophy, which is presented annually to the best college soccer player. 
The Irish, however, may be without senior goalkeeper Chris Cahill and sophomore defender Jack Traynor. Cahill left Saturday's game against 
Maryland with 10:38 remain­ing and did not return. Clark hopes that both play­ers will be ready come Friday. 
"They both have a good chance of playing," he said. "We're going to give them both every chance to play." 
Virginia will be led by sopho­more forward Yannick Reyering, who leads the Cavaliers with 11 goals and eight assists. 
After their first-round bye, the Cavaliers advanced by top­ping Bucknell 4-0 in the sec­ond round and California 2-1 in the third round. Reyering scored both goals in the sec­ond half in Virginia's win over the Golden Bears. 
As of Monday, Clark said the Irish hadn't begun to look at the Cavalier game tape, but he expected to start scouting Notre Dame's opponent on Tuesday. 
"We're focusing on analyzing our last game right now," he said. "We're looking at what things we can take from the Maryland game and improve on. That's our main focus is improving ourselves because that's the one thing we can control." 
Though he had yet to look at film, Clark anticipated that Virginia would give them a look similar to what they saw from Maryland Saturday. 
"I know [Virginia] will be a good team, that's a given," he said. "I imagine they're in many ways similar to Maryland in ability -they'll be that caliber of team." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 


Hoops 
continued from page 20 
Mike Brey said he would consider starting the fresh­man in future games, but that he also sees advantages to bringing the 6-foot-8, 250-pound forward off the bench. 
"That's something I'm going to think about, since he's so productive, but also, when I bring him off the bench at 14 minutes, he's got fresh legs and usually the other team doesn't have a fresh big guy, so I have to consider that too," Brey said. 
Brey said the team's other three forwards -junior Rob Kurz and sophomores Luke Zeller and Zach Hillesland ­would not be bothered if he rearranged the lineup in upcoming games. 
"The four big guys are all unselfish because they know they're going to play," Brey said. 
The Citadel used a full court press effectively in the second half of Saturday's game, throwing off Notre Dame's rhythm enough to outscore the Irish 38-34 after the break. Brey said he will use the tape of the press to improve the squad's abili­ty to get down court against it efficiently. 
"I was glad they did that," Brey said. "We're going to see that coming up. We did some good things against it and we did some not good things against it." 


Kurz said the second half problems against the Bulldogs were due primarily to a lack of motivation after leading 40-12 at halftime rather than a strategy issue against the press. 
"We got a little disinterest­ed in the second half," he said. "That will not be good enough in upcoming games." 
The Lehigh and Winston­Salem State games will both begin at 7:30 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame seeks first road win against Southern Cal 
Point guard gives Irish passing chance Friday  her defense needs work. "We need to make a big improvement on defense and rebounding. They're our two  
big problems right now,"  
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer  McGraw said. "We need to hold them to fewer points, and then we need to do a  
better job on the boards."  
Notre Dame looks to win its  So far this season, Notre  
first road game of the season  Dame has out-rebounded its  
Friday when it travels to Los  opponents  by  only  eight  
Angeles to face USC.  boards  (145-137)  while  
The Irish  are  coming off a  allowing opponents to effec­ 
big win Sunday when they  tively shoot the three at 41.5  
beat Western Michigan 87-67  percent.  
behind  an  efficient offense  One reason McGraw is con­ 
led by point guard Tulyah  cerned about her defense is  
Gaines. Gaines dropped eight  because of the abilities of  
points in the win while lead­ Trojans  guard  Eshaya  
ing  the  Irish  with  nine  Murphy and  center Chloe  
assists, giving her 17  on the  Kerr.  Murphy  enters  the  
year.  game against the Irish aver­ 
But Gaines is not the only  aging a  double-double, put­ 
giver on the Irish squad this  ting up 21  points and 10.7  
season.  Freshman  guard  rebounds in three. Kerr has  
Melissa Lechlitner has come  also been a  strong force in  
off the bench to distribute 12  the paint for the Trojans,  
assists while senior guard  averaging 16.7 points and  
Breona Gray has seven.  8. 7 rebounds.  
"We're looking for  each  "Kerr is somebody we have  
other.  We're  making  the  to  really  worry  about Irish forward Chandrlca Smith battles for a ball again Western Michigan guard Carrie Moore Nov.  
extra  pass,"  Irish  coach  because she's agile, she can 19 at the Joyce Center. Notre Dame beat the Broncos 87-67.  
Moffet McGraw said. "We're  shoot the three point, (jump  
doing  a  lot of good things  shots] and [inside shots],"  
offensively-we're scoring a  McGraw said. "So it's going  out the week, but her status  ical contributions coming off  they've proved they belong  
lot of points."  to be  a  really tough assign­ for  Friday's game is  still  the bench this season, with  in the mix in the top eight,  
The Irish offense has been  ment defensively."  uncertain. Losing Williamson  Barlow  averaging  11.3  and they really have made  
running on  all cylinders this  This  assignment  could  would force junior center  points per game  -third best  some  big contributions for  
season, averaging 77 points  become  even more  difficult  Melissa D'Amico into  more  on  the  team  while  us."  
per game, including  a  49­with the knee injury to  cen­ action, while also giving the  Lechlitner has been able to  Overall, Gaines is confident  
point performance against  ter Erica Williamson. After  Irish only  one  true center to  run  the point effectively to  in her team's ability to take  
Penn State Nov. 16. In each  playing  strong  in  Notre  match up against the  versa­ spell Gaines.  its first road win Friday.  
of Notre Dame's three wins  Dame's first two games, the  tile Kerr.  "They're just doing a  great  "We practice [defending]  
this season, it has scored  freshman went down with an  Although  one  of McGraw's  job in all ways. They've real­ every day, and we've gotta  
more  than 80 points. The  injury that forced her to sit  three  top  freshmen  went  ly assimilated all the infor­ do what we've gotta do  on  
Irish  are  also shooting .432  out  the  game  against  down, she still has her other  mation  quickly.  They've  the court," she said. "so I  
from the floor, compared to  Western Michigan. McGraw  two top substitutes ready to  learned  their  spots,"  think we'II be all right."  
.426 for their opponents.  said  that Williamson  did  play the Trojans  -guards  McGraw  said  of  her  two  
Despite the offensive effi­ practice on Monday and will  Lechlitner  and  Ashley  freshman guards. "I think at  Contact Jay Fitzpatrick  
ciency, McGraw still thinks  continue to practice through- Barlow. Both have made crit­ this point after four games  at jfitzpa5@nd.edu  

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 21, 2006 
Trojans 
continued from page 20 
Division I-A. 
"This team is probably as complete a team as we go against on offense and defense," Weis said. 
The Trojans started the sea­son with a 50-14 victory over No. 5 Arkansas in Fayetteville before earning easy wins over Nebraska and Arizona. USC then struggled for three weeks with close wins over Washington, Washington State and Arizona State. The Trojans' close calls finally caught up to them Oct. 28 in Corvallis, Ore. USC fell behind 33-10 with 4:51 left in the third quarter. Trojans quar­terback John David Booty threw three touchdowns in the final 16 minutes, but when his two-point conver­sion attempt with seven sec­onds left failed the Beavers completed the upset. 
Since that loss, Southern California has outscored its opponents 100-19, including a 23-9 win over California Saturday to earn a spot in the Rose Bowl -that is, if the Trojans don't make the BCS National Championship. 
"I think that sometimes they don't get enough kudos, and I think that Coach [Pete] Carroll and his staff have done a great job," Weis said. "They blow out Stanford, they go beat Oregon, they beat Cal last night, and they're in the same position they always are -PAC 10 champs with a chance of winning a national championship like they always do." 
And Weis said he is well aware of Carroll's 19-0 record in November since joining USC in 2001. 
As a first-year starter replacing Heisman Trophy winner Matt Leinart, Booty has completed 62.3 percent of 

Hockey 
continued from page 20 
wingers, who are currently both playing in the USHL, were teammates in their home country before coming to North America. Ridderwall currently leads the Tri-City Storm with 15 points in the young season. Bergman is also holding his own with four goals in eight games for the Cedar Rapids RoughRiders. 
"He is more dynamic than anyone that we have had 

his passes for 2,417 yards, 22 touchdowns and only six interceptions. 
Southern California's tail­backs also have had the responsibility of following a Heisman Trophy winner in Reggie Bush and an NFL draftee in LenDale White. Red-shirt junior Chauncey Washington leads the Trojans with 703 yards on 144 car­ries. True freshman Emmanuel Moody was USC's most efficient running back with a 5.8 yards-per-carry average before tearing liga­ments in his ankle against 
here. He has some tremen­dous offensive upside that is going to help us a lot," Jackson said. 
Ridderwall has also played a season alongside Billy Maday -the third of four new forwards. Maday and Ridderwall were numbers one and two respectively in scoring last season when they led the Chicago Chill to the Midget AAA finals before losing in the last game. 
The seven degrees of sepa­ration continues with Maday, who recently spent three days in Blaine, Minn. at the USA Hockey Junior 
LAURIE HUNTfThe Observer 



NCAA 
continued from page 20 
matehup. 
In the win, Hanks caught f(}r­mer Irish forwards Katie Thorlakson, Anne Makinen and Monica Gerardo by scoring her 15th eareer postseason goal. 
The Big Ten champions and No. 2 seed Lions (18-4-3) clawed their way to Alumni Field on a 1-0 win over Boston College Sunday night in University Park, Pa. 
Penn State is led by Co-Big Ten Defensive Player of the year defender Ali Kreiger, one of 15 finalists for the Iiermann Trophy, given to the nation's best player. She joins Notre Dame's Hanks and senior mid­fielder Jen Buczkowski on that list. 
Penn State is no stranger to the Elite Eight. The Lady Lions will be making their eighth appearanee in the 13 years of the program, while Notre Dame clocks its 1Oth trip in that same time. Still, Friday's match will be just the second between the two powerhouses and the first since Notre Dame downed Penn State 2-1 in the 2001 season opener. 
"Penn State historically has a great program," Irish coach Handy Waldrum said, adding that the Lions have several players he recruited. "It's defi­nitely going to be like a Final Four game. They're a very good team." 
Friday will be the 101st game played by this historic senior class and the last time it suits up to play in front of its home crowd. After going 90-7-3 in the previous 100 matches ­including 52-2-1 at home-the Irish must win this final home stand to advance to the College Cup semifinals in Cary, NC. Not surprisingly, emotions should run high when the Irish seniors take Alumni Field for the last time. 
"I think it's going to be sad to play my last home game but at the same time it's going be exhilarating because I know the feeling what it's like to win on your home field during NCAA time at Thanksgiving," senior defender Christie Shaner said after the Irish beat Colorado. "And hopefully we can pull that off again and make it to the Final Four and have a run at the ehampionship." 
Shaner knows the influence playing in front of a home crowd can have, and pointed to the 2004 National Championship run as evidence. 
"I know two years ago when I was on that national champi­onship team, that made the dif­ference," she said. "When we played here in the fourth round NCAA game against Portland, that made a world of difference and gave us a huge advantage." 
Throughout the year, the Irish ranked third in the country in home crowd attendance with more than 2,000 per game. 
Shaner is still overcoming a bout with meningitis that kept her from practicing the last two weeks and limited her to 26 minutes in Friday's win. She trained Monday with the Irish, and Waldrum said if she isn't ready to play 90 minutes Friday, he will utilize her off the bench again as much as he can. 
Waldrum said he will have the team to his house for an early Thanksgiving dinner Thursday prepared by his wife Dianna. 
"It's a nice tradition we've always done," he said. "So many kids won't have the opportunity to go home with us playing. We're looking forward to that." 
Though Waldrum said the team plans a large feast, they will eat early enough that the Irish will remain hungry for victory Friday night. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
Oregon Nov. 11. Fellow fresh­man C.J. Gable started for USC against California and gained 91 yards on 19 carries. 
"It's obvious what they've been able to do with their running backs is they lost Reggie and they lost LenDale, and these other guys have stepped right in and per­formed really well," Weis said. "It seems like every time you turn around they've got a new front-line running back that runs real well." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu 
Jamboree. Ben Ryan, the final Notre Dame offensive recruit, joined him in Blaine. 
Hyan is currently in his second season in the USHL with the defending champion Des Moines Buccaneers. He is currently fifth in the league in scoring with four goals and 12 assists in his first dozen games this year. 
Before playing with the Bucs, Ryan played AAA Midget hockey in Detroit with incoming defenseman Ian Cole. Cole weighs in at 210 pounds and is the biggest of the seven new bodies. His size will be need­ed to help replace graduat­ing defenseman Wes O'Neill (6-foot-4, 231 pounds) and Tom Sawatske (5-foot-11, 196). 
"We were not necessarily looking to get bigger on defense, but we were looking to get a little more physical," Jackson said. 
All three defensive addi­tions for Notre Dame are currently teammates on the US National U-18 team. 
Teddy Huth is a tough defender from Naperville, Ill. who was also has the ability to put the puck in the net when it is needed. From his spot at the point this season, he has five goals and eight assists in 16 games. 
The defensive corps is rounded out by goaltender Brad Phillips. At 6-foot-2, 163 pounds the netminder will likely need to put on some weight before stepping 


LAURIE HUNTfThe Observer 

Irish goaltender Dave Brown makes a save against Michigan State Friday at the Joyce Center. Brown had 26 saves in the win. 
between the pipes, but he has proved that he has the mental and physical tools needed to be one of the best in the nation. 
Meanwhile, the current Irish team will be spending the abbreviated break on the road in Omaha, Neb. The Mavericks (3-6-3, 2-5-1 CCI-lA) are currently on a five-game losing streak dat­ing back to a 4-3 loss to Alaska Nov. 3. 
"They're going to be dan­
gerous. They will be back at home and I'm sure they will be fired up," Jackson said. "I don't think they want to lose six in a row." 
Last season Notre Dame beat and tied UNO in a two game series in Omaha. The Irish were led by Josh Sciba, who had two goals and an assist in the 4-1 victory to start off the weekend. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 


Tuesday, November 21, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 

HENRI ARNOLDALEC WHITE JUMBLE

JOCULAR MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion UQscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
Let's listen to our tape to form four ordinary words. 
and improve our tones 
FRUOM 

I [ J 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ANGLO 

I I I 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 

CROISSANTWORLD 
tNAUMUT 
WHAT THE: BAI<BE:I<­SHOP QUARTE:T
H,._\1£. 'fOU 1:-\JE.P.. Nat\C.£.D
'#OV. \(.NOW \111\o\ P..T 

J I I lu 
USE:O TO PE:RFE:C.T
www.jumble.com
Tr\IS M EA.NS -FRoM 
1-\o\N """0-\"-'i N.CN t: """"fk€... 
THE:IR HARMONY. 
l-IE~£. ON OU1' we.'~ 
\A.%1..£.S P..~UNt> IN li-\E. 


00\NU \-\~~t>(.O~ 

Now arrange the circled letters oe-:.c.ufi..E.. to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.



J [J J I 
Answer: 

A "r I I I I J"[ I I I J 
{Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: JOINT AGONY FEUDAL SECEDE Saturday's Answer: When the salesman told him what the diamond cost, he turned-"STONE" DEAF 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
1 Auto amenities, 43 One often 1 Traffic director for short leaving his 
2 Former New 4 Baseball and initial behind York 53-Down football star 
44 Lao-tzu principle 3 Rats' milieuSanders 45 Trading org. 

4 Ted of "Becker'' 

9 Having one's jaw dropped 46 Hereditary ruler 5 Piece of work? 
14 Wish undone 49 Josh 6 "Is _, Lord?" 15 -Detoo 51 Orr 7 Pizazz 16 Was rude at a 57 Way, way off a Easy
dance 60 Friend of 9 Stuff in trays
17 Oar 
Morpheus in 10 Start of a David!0 Black cats and "The Matrix" Lettermandark clouds, e.g. 

61 Some sports countdown !1 Reverse of commentary 
11 Done topost­

62 Ore 
12 Building!2 Doesn't just ask 66 Of base 8 extension !3 Or 

67 Theater 13 Warring Tolkien !7 Bubkes 

employee creatures !8 Craft over 
68 Where S.F. is 18 Not Dem. orNiagara Falls? 

Rep.
69 Busts 19 Luke's sister, in

11 45, for one 
15 Nine-to-five 70 Shows its age, "Star Wars" 
activity as wallpaper 24 Golfer Vijay 
17 Chance to get 71 Quaker 38 Not just "a" 52 Bing, bang or 57 Love, in Lima
Singh's

on base possessive boom
homeland 40 Fly high 58 Kind of tax that 25 Thrombosis 53 Statehouse funds Soc. Sec.
41 Acorn sites1\NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE V.I.P.

cause 
59 Prefix with body 26 Start of some 42 Straight man, 54 President-for a comedian 63 "Kidnapped"
juice blend 55 Grammy winner 
47 Phoenix five monogram
names Jones 48 Busy 64 Word for half of 
29 Online flea 56 How deadpan hurricanesmarket 
50 Room jokes are 30 Back muscles, treatments delivered 65 Cartoon film art for short 
31 Baker's no. For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
32 Device with a Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday Nano model crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
33 Pretty agile for 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 one's age past puzzles, nytimes.corn/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 34 Southern treat 
Share tips: nytirnes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords.
36 "Wanna ?" 



EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Mischa Mandel, 23; Sean Young, 47; Bo Derek, 50; Veronica Hamel, 63 
Happy Birthday: Keeping things to yourself will be your most difficult task this year. You will be inclined to overdo, overindulge and overspend. Minimize will be what's required to get ahead. As long as you think twice before you commit to, take on or make a promise or decision, you will be OK. Your numbers are 9, 27, 29, 33, 35, 48 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You can learn something that when applied to your job, getting a job or finding a new source to make an income will help you excel. A change within a relationship may develop due to financial reasons. Pay back money you have borrowed. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You'll have a hard time staying on top of everything today. Don't believe everything you are told. Someone is probably not being honest with you. Question anything you feel might be dubious. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may be confused when it comes to partnerships. Before you make a snap decision, evaluate how you feel and what you are willing to lose. An older or more experienced person will help you make the right decision. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): This is your week to explore new avenues, put your plans in motion or apply for a new position. You will be brilliant in interviews and pulling things together for a project. Socializing with business associates will pay off. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Stick to lhe things you enjoy doing. Challenge yourself physically. Consider a hobby that will inspire you to do more. Find a way to make improvements that will help you feel good about yourself. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Not everything will go your way but, ifyou take time to explain what it is you are trying to do, you will get the support you need. A love relationship may cause you grief. Avoid arguments that might lead to irreconcilable differences. 4 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A change in the way you earn your living is apparent. Check out how you can pick up what you need to know or the skills necessary to go in a direction better suited to your needs. The challenge will bring renewed enthusiasm. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Speak up--now is the time to clear the air and get things that have been bothering you out in the open. Change will be good in the end so stop fearing the inevitable and get on with it. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): You are likely to dig a deeper hole if you aren't careful how you handle personal matters. Secrets will be considered a form of lying, so don't even think about it. Evasiveness will lead to trouble and a change in a relationship. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your industrious nature will bring results today. Your instinctive way of knowing what will sell and what won't will be your driving force. A chance to advance is in the stars. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Put your feet back on the ground and stop thinking about what you might have had or done if things had turned out differently. Don't look back even if forward seems too hard. Pull yourself together and start down that long, narrow road to self-preservation. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your focus should be on money and getting ahead. An old love connection may be a problem for you but, if you think about the past, you will realize this isn't the time to backtrack. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are secretive yet outgoing, charming and knowledgeable. You have stamina, courage and the ability to adapt. You are intense, energetic and have a great capacity to learn. 
Eu~enia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun. eu~enialast.com for confidential consultations 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ______________· State _____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 








PORTS
Tuesday, November 21, 2006 
page 20 
NOTRE DAME SOCCER 

Alive and kickin' 
Shaner hopes to last entire 
Clark and co. ride into game as Irish prepare for Virginia to face Cavaliers Penn State Friday at home on road to first Final Four 
By TIM DOUGHERTY By ERIC RETTER Spans Writer Associate Sports Editor 
While the tournament opponents No. 12 Notre Dame is one step Notre Dame sent home eat leftover away from its first-ever Final Four, turkey this weekend, the Irish hope to but Irish coach Bobby Clark isn't feast on Lions when they welcome approaching the team's quarterfinal 
Penn State to Alumni Field Friday in a matchup with No. 4 Virginia any 7:30p.m. Elite Eight showdown for the differently. right to keep playing. "You can't get caught up in the 
No. 1 Notre Dame (23-0-1) comes off prize, you have to focus on what a 3-0 win over No. 16 Colorado last you're doing," he said. "We give Friday, in which sophomore forwards Virginia full respect, but we don't Brittany Bock (two goals) and Kerri change our preparation for any­Hanks (one goal, one assist) led the one." Irish into Friday's quarterfinal JENNIFER KANG/The Observer With the game on Friday, Clark is 
Irish defender Jack Traynor splits Illinois-Chicago midfielders in Notre Dame's 1-0 seeNCAA/page 18 second round NCAA win Nov. 15 at Alumni Field. · see ELITE Ipage 1 7 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Eight day layoff to end next Monday against Lehigh 
HOCKEY 

Seven stars ink promise 

to suit up in South Bend 
careers.
Current squad takes 
"It was about finding guys 
on Nebraska-Omaha who could skate, guys who competed hard and guys who could think the game," Irish By DAN MURPHY coach Jeff Jackson said. Sports Writer All seven players. have been ranked by NHL scouts as either an A (mostly likely
The future of Notre Dame 
will be drafted in the first
hockey continues to look 
three rounds) or a B (a
bright with the official 
potential late-round selec­
announcement of the 2007­
tion) for this year's entry
08 recruiting class. The Irish 
draft.
will welcome seven new 
The most recent commit­
players to their roster next 
ment came a few weeks ago
fall -four forwards, two 
from forward Robin
defenseman and a goalie. 
Bergman. Bergman joins fel­
The group already has an 
low Swede Callie Ridderwall
unusually high level of 
as the first two players from
chemistry, with each mem­
their country ever to come to
ber having played with at 
Notre Dame. The two
least one of his teammates at some point in their hockey ' see HOCKEY/page 18 
NO WOMEN'S BBAU. 
NO VOllEYBAll 
LLI 


No. 11 Notre Dame
Notre Dame at 
Saint Mar~'s 72
Co) Notre Dame at 

goes 1-2 and places 13th 
Anderson 69
z usc 
Ohio
c:c 

in national tournament,
Belles guard Alison
.... 

including a win over
Kessler scores with
Friday, 5 p.m.
= Friday, 8 p.m. 

Columbia.
under a minute left to
Notre Dame plays No. 
The Irish head to
c:c 
beat Ravens. 
18 Ohio in its last regu-
Southern Cal in search of 
lar season match. 
their first road win. 
!:i 
page 15
page 14
page 16
page 17 

1) lost to Butler on Nov. 13, Washington D.C. on Dec. 3 to big games coming up after however, and will not head to take on Maryland at the Thanksgiving break," fresh­New York. Verizon Center, home of the man forward Luke Harangody 
After taking .on the NBA's Washington Wizards. said. "It should be a good Mountain Hawks Monday, the Four days later, the Irish will challenge for us." Irish will play Winston-Salem play their first big home Harangody scored 18 points State at home two days later. game of the year against in 17 minutes off the bench Then the schedule gets Alabama at the Joyce Center Sunday. Notre Dame coach tougher. Dec. 7. 
Notre Dame will travel to ''I'm getting ready for the see HOOPS/page 17 
FOOTBALL 



Weis praises Southern Cal 
Coach knows Irish face talented team 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
Irish coach Charlie Weis will have his usual Tuesday press conference today, but his normal 10-minute open­ing assessment of Notre Dame's upcoming opponent will be gone. lie did that Sunday. 
With the Irish leaving for Los Angeles Thursday afternoon, Weis combined his post-game wrap with a pre-game analysis of Southern California ­including its explosive offense. USC's 31.1 points per game are 19th in 
see TROJANS/page 18 

SMC BASKETBAll NO WATER POlO 
NO CROSS COUNTRY 
NCAA BASKETBAll 

Led by All-American 
Memphis 77 

sophomore Patrick 
Oklahoma 65 

Smyth, Notre Dame 
Memphis upsets No. 

places 19th of 31 teams 
12 Sooners to advance 

in the NCAA 
to Maui Invitational 

Championships. 
semi-finals. 

page 15 
page 14 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
After a 74-50 win over The Citadel Sunday, Notre Dame will have eight days off before taking on Lehigh Monday at the Joyce Center. 
The Irish left the 
Thanksgiving weekend part of their schedule open in order to accommodate the semifi­nals and finals of the NIT Season Tip-Off at Madison Square Garden, which they would have reached with two wins last week in the opening rounds of the tournament in Indianapolis. Notre Dam(l (3­






