
The Independent Newspaper Ser~ing Notre Dame and Sain~ Mary's 
NCAA awards ND student-athletes 
All 26 Irish sports teams surpass national Academic Performance Ratings standards 


By KATIE PERRY 
Assistant News Editor 

·Boston College is no longer. 
just a  rival  on  the football  
field.  
In  a  report released last  

Thursday, the National Collegiate Athletics Assoeiation (NCAA) present­ed the Irish and Eagles with tlw most public recognition awards as based <HI a two­year aggregate of Academie Performance Hate (APH) scores. 
Virus strikes students in dortns 
Gastroenteritis has hospitalized 31 since start of spring semester 
Hy RYAN SYDLIK 
N~ws Writer 
i\n outbreak ol' a gastronn­tl~ritis sprPad through several llnivnrsity rnsidnnc:e halls last wnnk, bringing the total num­hf\r ol' infnetml studnnts to I00 sincn thn start ol' thn spring S(lnwstnr, a llealth Snrvicns of1kinl said. Thirty-onn of those inl'nrtml wnre hospitaliznd. 
Thn virus -which allilcts thn gastrointnstinal tract and ean rHwsna. vomiting, diarrhea. low gradn fnvnr and dnhydra­tion -hit Alumni llall particu­larly hard. said Patricia 
see SICK/page 4 


The awards were given to the top 1 0 percent of teams by school as well as the top 10 percent of teams by sport. No other Division 1-A institu­tion had more programs hon­ored in the by-institution cat­egory than both Notre Dame and Boston College, each with 14. 
All University programs exceeded the NCAA's APH standards, with 14 Irish teams earning perfect scores of 1,000 points. The average 
see APR/page 6 

-----=====-===================:::'======-=-=== 

Rectors prais-e job despite continu~d turnover 
By JOE I'IARULLI 
Nt•ws Writer 
ll1~spitn t.he recent appoint­mnnts of t.wo rectors to high­er University posts, Notre J>anw n~etors insist t.hat. sit­ting at tho helm or a rnsi­dnnee hall is not just a step­ping storw to a higher posi­tion. 
This ynar, Fathnr l'ntnr .larret and Sistnr Susan Dunn will lnavn their positions as rn1:tors of Knough llall and Lyons llall, rnspnetivnly. to takn administrat.ivn posts at thn University. In 200!i, seven n~etors lnl't their positions. 
But rwithnr Dunn nor Jarrnt hnlinvns the notienable turnovnr ratn indicatns a lack or job satisfaetion. 
"I love !wing a rnc:lor and would havn stayed hning a rPctor for as long as I could hav1~. so I rwvnr saw it as a 
stopping stonn to anything nlsn," Jarrnt said. 
.larrP-t and Dunn will take up thnir nnw posts July 1. Jarrnt will take over as the superior of the Holy Cross community at Notre Dame, and Dunn will beeome Assistant Vic:n President of Student Affairs. 
"AI though I'm v1~ry exeited about working in the Offiee of Studnnt AITairs, I'm very sad to be lnaving Lyons al'ler five ynars," Dunn said. 
Sister Carrine EtlHlridge, who has bonn Farley Hall's reetor since 1993, finds no problem with rectors pursu­ing other opportunitins. 
"Everyonn bneomes a rector for a dif'l'erent reason, and life moves on," Etheridge said. "It's very normal nowa­days for people to have sever­al careers in their lifetime." 
see RECTORS/page 6 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
WNDU officially, acquired 
Most profit will go to ND's endowment 
By MADDIE HANNA 
Associate News Editor 
Gray Tnlnvision, lne. oflicially acquirnd WNDU-TV from tlw University Monday for $H5 mil­lion -a pun:hasn that will lwlp inllatn Notrn Danw's endowmm1t., a Univnrsity ollidal said. 
Exneutivn Viee Pn~sidPnt John i\l'flcck-Graves said in a statn­ment Monday tlw $H!i million from thn saln of Miehiana Tnleeasting Corp. -thn O)Wrator or WNDU. an OIH:ampus NBC­alliliatn station -will bP inwst­nd primarily in t.lw Univnrsity's endowmnnt and usnd for· "stu­dnnt and acadmnk initiativns." 
Al'llnck-(;ravns also said stu­dent intnrnships would lw unar­fectrd hy tlw ownnrship rhangn. 
Thn saln has l)(~nn in tho works since April 200!i. At that tinw. tlw Univnrsity hirnd Kalil and Co., a broknragn linn IHtsnd in Tucson, Ariz.. to nxplom options for selling Michiana Tnh~1·.asting Corp. 
An out.-;idn broknrage linn was neenssary givnn thn Univnrsity's "limited knowlndgn or t.hn bmad­easting industry," Afllnc:k-Craws told Thn Obsnrvnr last. April. 
"In rncent months wn have reeeived a number of inquiries from partins intnrnstnd in acquir­ing Miehiana Tnlneasting Corporation," he said in April. "The Univnrsity fools it has a responsibility to ovfl.luatn sueh inquirins in a fiscally prudent manner." 
In August 200!i, Univnrsity 
see WNDU/pagc 4 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group gives updates on recent initiatives 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
Assistant News Editor 
Amid nominations for various Council ol' Hepresentatives (COH) positions, Monday's COH meeting provided brief updatns of studnnt government's Feb. 27 presenta­tion to the South Bnnd Common Couneil and ol' potential Grab­and-Go selection increases. 
Student body prnsidnnt Dave Baron briefed COH membnrs on the Common Couneil membnrs' generally positive response to the student speakers' presnntations. 
"It went as well as we could have realistically hoped," Baron 

said. "They said wn havn put 
together sornn good initiativns." 
The Community Hnlations 
Cornmittne, whieh will further 
discuss thn issue, has not sdwd­
uled its next meeting, Baron 'said. 
The studnnt govnrnnwnt dnle­
gation accornplishnd a signifkant 
goal at thn Common Council 
mnnting, Baron said, by having 
thn Disordnrly llousing ordi­
rHtnc(i assignnd to a eommittne 
for disc:ussions. 
While StudPnt Body Vicn 
Pn~sident Lizzi Shappell agrned 
the Common Council meeting 
sec COR/page 3 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, March 7, 2006 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Old T.V. favorites 
I'll admit it: I am back on the TV bandwagon. After several years of only having random Simpsons and Seinfeld reruns to turn to, I've now contracted moderately bad addictions to both "24" and "Lost." These tiberdramas have 
Geoff Matteson 
you on the edge of your seat every week, and usually 
Photographer
!:eave the viewer with more ques­tions than answers. I don't need to explain what the premis­es for those shows are; if you don't know yourself, chances are good that there is someone within ten feet of you now who does. 
I would rather dedicate this bit of newspaper to the last television pro­gram that made me drop everything I was doing, and watch it every week: a little show called "Mystery Science Theater 3000" ["MST3K"]. 
For you young'uns on campus here, "MST3k" may have been a slightly before your time. The show centered on a normal guy [Joel, then later Mike] who was shot into space by a couple of evil scientists. The experiment was to see if a man who was forced to watch terrible movies all the time would go insane. 
Fortunately for us, Joel built a couple of robot companions on board the "Satellite of Love," and hilarity ensued. Tom Servo, made out of an old gumball machine, has a tendency to sing. And Crow T. Robot. his golden-beaked cohort, is just "different." We see these three silhouetted against the movies and are privy to their comments on the films in progress. 
The worst [or funniest] part of "MST3k" was that all of the movies were originally made to be profit-making pieces of cinema. Somehow, somewhere, writers and directors took time and money to actually produce these horri­ble movies. While many of these flicks should never have seen the light of day, "MST3k" was nice enough to abuse them for the sake of humor. 
Classics include: 'The Pumaman," the story of an Incan superhero in 1960s England, embodied with the "powers" of a puma. As Hobot puts it: "Now I know that if I ever come across a puma in the jungle, I can just push it ~he heck over." Santa Claus Conquers the Martians, when, yes, Santa is kidnapped and taken to Mars in order to bring the joy of Christmas to all the little Martians. It also features Droppo, the laziest man on Mars. 
Perhaps the most infamous movie shown on "MST3k" was entitled: "Manos: The Hands of Fate." The fact that it was written, directed, and pro­duced by a Texan manure farmer should be warning enough. Although it really didn't have a plot, it generally fol­lowed the experience of a family that decides to lodge with a strange man in the boondocks who has a servant named "Torgo" and a harem of wives locked up in his back yard. Even with the com­mentary of Joel and .the hots, Manos is hard to watch. 
"MST3k" also taught me how to sur­vive modern films that are an affront to the movie industry. I laughed all the way through "Anaconda" when it came out. And last summer, "The Island" was creepily similar to a movie that had aired on "MST3k" ["Parts: The Clonus Horror"]. 
"MST3k" is no longer on the air Saturday mornings. Thankfully, the show is constantly being released onto DVD these days. So while I look forward to this week's Lost, I may just pop in my copy of "The Pod People" and relive the glory of Trumpy. Huzzah! 
Contact Geoff Matteson at gmatteso@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT HAVE YOU BEEN DOING TO AVOID GETTING SICK THIS WINTER? 


Joe Boland 
senior Fisher 
"/don't get sick." 
OFFBEAT 
Prosthetic leg returned; police stumped 
LOS ANGELES -Two prosthetic legs stolen from a 16-year-old California girl have mys­teriously turned up in her mother's van, the second time in three months that an artificial limb belong­ing to the teen has been taken· and then returned, police said on Friday. 
Los Angeles County Sheriff's Sgt. David Austin said investigators dusted the slightly dam­aged limbs for finger­prints and had inter­viewed a "laundry list" of people but were baffled by the thefts. 
TODAY a: 
1.&.1 
::::1: 
~ 
1.&.1 
3: 
... 
<
(.) 






Erin McGinn  Chris Harrington  Noel Carlson  Shannon Reabe  
junior Lyons  sophomore Dillon  junior Fisher  sophomore McGlinn  
"/take Airborne. "  ''I'm running around in short shorts with the  ''I'm staying away from the dining hall. "  ''I'm taking naps for extended  

band rugby 
,
team. 

"We're treating this as a crime," Austin said. "We have a residential burglary to deal with. This is grand theft and burglary and if we find out who's responsible we'll take appropriate action." 
Hearse driver arrested for biting police officer 
BERLIN -A drunken hearse driver has been arrested in the western German town of Krefeld after biting a police offi­cer taking him in for an alcohol test, police said on Monday. 
Police had called for a hearse at a funeral home 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 




36 HIGH HIGH 55 30 LOW LOW 50 

to transport a body to the cemetery. 
"The hearse driver nearly fell over when he got out of the car. Then he had to hold onto everything he could find as he stumbled to the house," said police spokesman Dietmar Greger. 
Police decided to take the man to the station to test his blood alcohol level, but when they tried to get him out of their car he started a fight and bit an officer several times in the hand. 
Information compiled from thf! Associated Press. 
periods of time. , 
IN BRIEF 
The Office of Multicultural Affairs will host speaker Margaret Montoya today from 12 p.m. to 2 in the Vander Vennet Theater in the Student Center. 
John Carr, director of the Department of Social Develo­pment & World Peace, will speak on "Political Responsibility and Religion: Faithful Citizenship in the 2006 Elections" today at 7 
p.m. in the Eck Visitors Center Auditorium. 
Baritone Ryan de Ryke and Pianist Daniel Schlosberg will perform the works of Schuman, Liszt and Vaughan Williams at 
7:30 p.m. today in the Annenburg Auditorium in the Suite Museum. Tickets are $8, $6, $5, and $3. 
Notre Dame RecSports will hold a body fat percentage screening from noon to 2 
p.m. today at Rolfs Sports Recreation Center, No regis­tration is required. 
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team will face Lehigh University at 4 p.m. Wednesday at Moose Krause Field. 
The film "Pride and Prejudice" will be shown at 
7:00 p.m. Thursday in the Browning Cinema of the Debartolo Performing Arts Center. Call 1-2800 for tick­ets. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

FRIDAY SATURDAY. 



HIGH 63 LOW 45 
Atlanta 58 I 39 Boston 38 I 26 Chicago 42 I "24 Denver 61 I 33 Houston 77 I 61 Los Angeles 60 I 51 Minneapolis 41 I 25 New York 41 I 27 Philadelphia 45 I 28 Phoenix 77 I 53 Seattle 49 I 40 St. Louis 55 I 31 Tampa 72 I 56 Washington 45 I 31 
'Ii1esday, March 7, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Division for Mission seeks student input 
sticky," student body president

By LIZ HARTER 
Knllyo Mitros said. 

News Wrircr 
Some people arc baptized 
Catholic but never attend 

!\ rnpresE~ntativo from tho mass, Mitros said. Others, Saint Mary's Division for while not official members of Mission told Board ol' thn Church, are knowledgeable (;ovnrnanen IBOC I mnmbors about Catholic prineiplns. Monday that tlw Division is Studnnl body vir.e president soE~king studnnt input on the Susan McllduiT said a quota importancn ol' having Catholic systnm could disqualify other­faculty at tlw CoiiE~gn. wise nxenllent candidates. 
Mission commissioner and "If' you are doing it just to Saint Mary's senior Jenny Imaintain( the status quo, you Hobbins said tlw Division -an might not be benefiting the administrative body or the College," Mclldull'said. Collngn-is nxarnining Collnge Treasurer .lillian Waters hiring prat:ticns. and slw askml reminded members that Saint BOC nwmlwrs whnther Mary's students do not have to Catholic profnssors an~ vital to be Catholic and that non­Saint Mary's Catholic idontity. Catholic applicants might be 
Hobbins said tlw Division is turnnd ofT by an overwhelm­evaluating how tho religious ingly Catholic faeulty. al'liliation of professors afTeets Tho Catholic idnntity of tho tlw mission of thn Colloge but College is not at risk, Student to look at diversifying," Condon and the week after Spring has no i m nwd iate plans to Diversity Board president said. Break. Sold together, tho itE~ms institutn a quota for Catholic Amanda Shropshire said. She A professor's religious beliofs are $50 this wonk and $55 the profnssors. said having only a Catholic are less significant in certain week following the break. 
"ITiw Division !'or Mission( porsper.tivn in the classroom subject matters, junior class Freshman class president wants nw to hn abln to report limits intnlleetual growth. prosidnnt lleidi Goeppingor Franeesea Johnson said all on what tho student body "It is a fact you learn very said in clarification. She said proceeds will go to Hilny thinks about this," Hobbins dil'fnrent things in different religion rarely beeomes a point llospital for Children. said Monday. ways when you have different of diseussion, for example, in + Student Diversity Board 
Many Catholic institutions peopln I in the classroom I." her science elasses. president Amanda Shropshire n~quirn a r.Prtain pnrcentagn of Shropshin~ said. Condon requested the diseus­said the Student Diversity t.lwir faculty to bn Catholic. Senior class president sion be tabled until Hobbins Board will sell daffodils in the Whiln Saint Mary's does not Laurnn Condon said any varia­eould provide the Board with Student Center from Mar<~h 20 havn such a policy, Notn~ Dame tion in pnrsper.tive, even in tho morn concrnte information. to March 24. /\II proceeds will 
requin~s that 50 pnrcnnt of' its rnligious affiliation of profes­go towards a new Diversity faculty lw Catholic. Hobbins sors, is a positive addition to In other BOG news: Scholarship Fund. said. tho College. + EMX sweatshirts and 
"I think if' you makn a "I think if we are going to sweatpants are being sold in Contact Liz Harter at rN1uirnnwnt likn that, ... it gots look at hiring issues, we need the Student Center this week eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Hesburgh to receive Sache111 
Special 10 The Observer 
Univnrsity Prnsidont Emeritus Father Thnodore llesburgh will rnr.eive the Sadwm, which n~c­ognizE~s a lifetime of excellnnen and virtue, at II ::~o a.m. today at the Indiana Statehouse. 
Crnated morn than throe decades ago by l'ornwr Indiana Gov. Edgar .l. Whiteomb. tlwn discontinued lhllowing his tnrn1. tho Saclwm was eonsidnrnd a higher honor than the Sagamore of' tlw Wabash. Gov. Mitl'h Daniels brought baek the Sachem last ynar and returrwd it to its status as the state's highest honor. The award's name eonws from the Algonquin tnrm applied to villagn leaders. implying wis­dom. judgment and gnu~e. 
llesburgh, SS, and colloge bas­kdball eoaehing legend John Woodnn (lhn 2005 honornol an~ the inaugural rnr.ipinnts of' tho now Sachem. 
Notre Damn's presidnnt from 1952 to I<JS7, llesburgh has played an active and influential role in national and internation­al all'airs over thn past half' cen­tury. lie has hnld 16 prnsidential appointments that involved him in virtually all rn aj or soei al issues -including civil rights. peaeef'ul uses of' atomie energy, campus unrnst, treatnwnt of Vintnam offenders, and Third World development and immi­gration rnf'orm. 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 7, 2007 
APR 
continued from page 1 
APR score for all Notre Dame teams was approximately 992. 
Notre Dame was also included in a select list of schools that consistently exceed APR standards. Other institutions recognized by the NCAA included Brown, Harvard, Yale, the three U.S. military academies and The College of William and Mary. 
The NCAA introduced the new set of guidelines last March for major Division I sports programs to keep stu­dent-athletes scholastically on track for a degree. The APR point system requires a school to score 925 or higher out of a possible 1,000 to avoid penalty from the NCAA. 
Each player begins with two points. If the student-athlete stays in school and maintains an adequate GPA, he or she will lose no points. If a play­er's GPA drops below a cer­tain level or if he or she departs school early, one point is lost. Two points are deducted if both scenarios occur. Points for each athlete are tallied and added for a team total, which is then divided by the total number of points possible and multi­plied by 1,000. 
Last March, Notre Dame's overall APR score was 979 ­35 points higher than 
The first rankings served as a dry run for insti­tutions to learn how the APR works and find out which penalties would have been necessary had the program been in full effect. The most recent scores are a compila­tion of the rankings from the 2003-2004 and 2004-2005 academic years. 
Fernand Dutile, Notre Dame Faculty Board of Athletics chair and NCAA Faculty 
WNDU 
continued from page 1 
President Father John Jenkins said multiple firms had bid for WNDU. 
He expressed confidence in the future of the station and said both WNDU and the University would benefit from the sale of the station. 
"I think we'd be better served if we do our best at running the University, and I think a company is going to buy WNDU that knows this business and it's going to flourish," Jenkins told The Observer in August. 
And like Affleck-Graves, Jenkins said Notre Dame stu­dents working and interning for WNDU would not be adversely affected by a sale. 
"Any educational benefit we got from it we can still get from it, even ifwe don't own it ... so it's not an impediment to the educa­tion of our students," Jenkins said in August. 

The University announced in November that Atlanta-based Gray Television, Inc. would be purchasing WNDU for $85 mil­lion. 
"We are absolutely delighted to have found that match and are confident that Gray Television will carry on the tradition of excellence found at WNDU for the past half-century," Afflcck­Graves said in a statement after the deal was made Nov. 23. 
Gray owns 35 stations -now including WNDU -serving 30 markets. Of those 25 stations, 24 are ranked No. 1 in local news audience, and 24 are ranked No. 1 in overall audience within their respective markets. 
Gray's stations reach approxi­mately six percent of U.S. house­holds with television. 
WNDU serves the South Bend­Elkhart Designated Market Area, ranked 87th largest in the nation. Until Monday, the University owned the station since 1955. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
Sick 
continued from page 1 
Brubaker, assistant direc­tor of the Student Health Center. 
"It seems to always get worse during periods with students being more stressed with exams or being in more group contact," Brubaker said. "Even when students are ill, they continue to go to class and try to make it." 
Dillon Hall rector Father Paul Doyle said several dorm residents experienced episodes of the illness early last week, including two res­ident assistants. But Brubaker said Dillon had fewer reported cases com­pared to other dorms like Alumni. 
Brubaker could not provide specific information regard­ing the number of students infected in each respective residence hall. 
In addition to gastroenteri­tis, Brubaker said there have been an equal number of 
Athletics representative, said he was "delighted -though not surprised -by Notre Dame's superb APR results." 
"Our results are especially losing scholarships in the fall, however it has limited penal­ties to a maximum of 10 per­cent of the scholarships. 

Football programs were 
noteworthy when one con­siders that many other institutions deploy lower 
.e I i g i b i I i t y 
requirements than Notre Dame's in cal­culating their APRs," he said. "NCAA rules require that the insti­tution's own eligibility thresholds be 
"NCAA rules require that the institution's own eligibility thresholds be used, and these vary from institution to institution." 
Fernand Dutile Notre Dame Faculty Board of Athletics chair 

generally hit the hardest -since that sport had the lowest over­all APR average out of all pro­grams. Ten schools could each lose more than 17 athletes in football alone. 
The NCAA sanctions will likely have little effect on Notre Dame's oppo­nents in all sports. Just 
the nation­"The APR will go a long scholarship al average athlete who
way toward improving the 

for Division leaves the
academic environment of

I sports institution programs intercollegiate athletics." while aca­-and 13 demically Irish teams ineligible.
Fernand Dutile

earned Universities 
Notre Dame Faculty

perfect with teams scores. Board of Athletics chair that continu­
used, and these vary from institution to institution." 
Notre Dame football scored lowest within men's teams as well as all teams at the University. But with an APR of 946, the team is in the 60­70th percentile by sport, according to the NCAA. The average APR for all Division I football programs is 929. 
Women's basketball ranked lowest among women's teams at the University -with an APR of 977 -yet still lies in the 60-70th percentile by sport and surpasses the 958 point average among all Division I women's basketball teams. 
Programs that failed to score 925 or higher will be 
unable to 
replace a 
ally demon­
strate poor academic showing will ulti­mately be prevented from participating in postseason contests and will also lose scholarships. 
With the release of the lat­est APH rankings last week, 99 teams from 65 institutions incurred scholarship penal­ties -amounting to less than 2 percent of all collegiate ath­letic teams. The NCAA said such programs could begin seven teams in the six main conferences -Atlantic Coast, Big East, Big Ten, Big 12, Southeastern and Pac-1 0 ­were penalized for sub-par APH scores. The West Virginia men's wrestling team and the DePaul football and men's basketball teams were the only Big East programs to incur punishment. 

Dutile said the APR pro­gram is a crucial part of aca­demic reform in the NCAA. 
"The APR will go a long way toward improving the aca­demic environment of inter­collegiate athletics, especially in high-profile sports," Dutile said. "Problems will remain, of course, but these develop­ments, driven by committed institutional CEOs, constitute a tremendous step in the right direction." 
Notre Dame men's teams that received perfect scores in APH rankings include: cross country, fencing, golf, hockey, swimming, indoor track and outdoor track. Irish women's teams were also flawless in cross country, fencing, golf, lacrosse, soccer, softball and tennis. Nationwide, as well as at the University, women's teams had higher APR scores than men's teams. The national average for women's teams was 969, compared to 943 for men's teams. At Notre Dame, women's teams averaged approximately 995, and men's teams averaged approximately 989. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 
COR 
continued from page 1 
went well, she emphasized work on community relations would continue into her term as Student Body President, which will begin April 1. 
"It's a very small step in what we have to do," she said. "[Student government and the Common Council] have to have a continued relation[ship], and that's only just begun." 
In other news, student body vice president-elect Bill Andrichik and student body pres­ident-elect Shappell reported they have met with Food Services Director Dave Prentkowski and South Dining Hall General Manager Marc Poklinkowski about examining the Grab-and­Go system. 
"They didn't comment on [changing the allotment of] points, but they were very sup­portive of [examining] the selec­tion," Andrichik said. "The best way to approach this is to give students choices in the items involved." 
Shappell's and Andrichik's ideas for Grab-and-Go additions include take-home items such as popcorn and ramen noodles, hot items like soup and snacks like nuts and candy, Andrichik said. He asked representatives for fur­ther input. 

"Ramen was the impetus for this whole thing," he said. 
The meeting was closed to the public for a COR Collaboration Fund Appeal. The COH Collaboration Fund is designed for eo-sponsorship of an event between a club or residence hall and a student organization. 
In other COR news: 
+Elizabeth Brown was approved without opposition as Chief Executive Assistant for 2006-07. 
+Stephen Friend was approved without opposition as Student Union Treasurer for 2006-07. 
+Anna Sierra was approved without opposition as Student Business Board Manager for 2006-07. 
+Joyce Randall was approved without opposition as a non-vot­ing member of COR as a repre­sentative of the Diversity Council. 
+Kerry Kilbourn, the newly elected Club Coordination Council President for 2006-07, was introduced to COR. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel @nd.edu 
reported cases of upper res­piratory influenza. She said all students who were infect­ed did not receive a flu shot. 
Gastroenteritis hit campus last fall, as well, and was far more severe than the most recent outbreak. The illness usually hits once each year, Brubaker said, and is often misunderstood as a case of influenza. 
"Stomach 

flu is a "Stomach flu is a four feet of an misnomer," infected person.
misnomer. Influenza 

she said. Brubaker said
is an upper

"Influenza those experienc­is an upper respiratory illness." ing symptoms of respiratory nausea and vom­iII ness. iting should "give
Patricia Brubaker

This was [their] stomach 
assistant director

not the rest." flu." Student Health Center Two hours after 
the virus is to practice good hygiene," Brubaker said. "You can be contagious up to two weeks after symptoms stop, so those infected should practice good hygiene to avoid infecting others. 
Wash your hands, don't share drinking glasses, don't share spit or space." 
She also recommended 
avoiding proximi­
ty within three to 
As a result, stu­dents who received flu shots earlier this year were not immune to contracting the illness. Those infected need to take proper precautions even after they start feeling better, she said. 
"The best way to [keep] from getting and spreading 

the onset of symp­
toms, patients can start drinking either water or Gatorade and should avoid eating food for at least 12 hours, according to a Health Services guide regarding the virus. 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 
Gala 2006 Greencroft Senior Center Benefit 
Featuring comedian Stuart Mclean 

Sat., April 29, 2006 7:00p.m. Goshen College Music Center Tickets ~ $35 brlsale at Goshen College Welcome Center, 1700 S. Main, Goshen, (574) 535-7566. 
A GR_EENCR_OFT. 
• www.greencroft.org 
Major sponsors: 

Blue Gate Restaurant Boling Vision Center Corson Family Foundation Elkhart General Hospital 
Media sponsors: 

First State Bank ~hr (~ushrn NeUis HomeCrest Cabinetry KeyBank
88.} WVPE 

Your iVPir Sliliiort 
liberty Homes Rollpak Corp. 


ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, March 7, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVICES page '5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
War criminal commits suicide 
AMSTEHI>AM -A Croatian Serb convicted of ethnic cleansing after leading a brutal revolt during the Balkan wars committed suicide in prison, the U.N. tribunal said Monday, a setback for proseeutors counting on his testimony in otlwr war erinws eases. 
Milan Babic showed no sign of despair hdore he killml himself Sunday 1wnning, a tribunal spoknswoman said. But his suieide came just throe wonks after he reaffirmed his rmnorse for his crimes, telling a tribunal that his guilt was a "pain that I have to live with for the rnst of my lif'n." 
Onn~ a dose associate of former Yugoslav President Slohodan Milosevic, Babie was ronsidenHI an "insider" with special kn'owl­edge of the workings of Milosevic's regime, and prosecutors put him on the stand for thnw weeks of dramatic tnstimony against his fornwr nwntor in 2002. 
Avalanches smother resort skiers 
CENI·:VA-Alpinn ski resorts worn on high aiPrt Monday after lwavy wnnknnd snowfalls raused avalanelws that killed at !Past l'ivP pPopln in thn last thnw days ­mostly skiers who l~ad ventured oiT marked runs. 
In t.lw Swiss resort of Lautnrbrunnen, an AmPriran n~sident of <:ermany skiing well oiT t.lw run was swept away by a snowslide and killed, polkn said. Poliee did not identify the vicl.im hut said a sneond Amnriean 1·aught up in the avalanehn nscaped unharnwd. 
Anot.lwr U.S. citizen diNI across tlw bordnr in thn J.'rendJ resort of Tign1~s after appar­ently falling into a lakn whiln snowboarding on unmarkml teJTitory, rnscun serviens said. Thn vktim's idnntity was 'not rnvnaled. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Moussaoui death penalty trial begins 
ALI~XANI>HIA. Va. -After morn than four ynars of wrangling and delay, th1~ death penalty trial of Llw only man charged in the United States in connection with the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks is n~ady to bngin. 
Final jury snlnetion was schndulnd lilr Monday in thn snnt11ndng trial of Zacarias Moussaoui, a 37 -year-old Frnneh citizen who h<L'> admitt11d his loyalty to tho al-Qaida terror network and its l11adnr, Osama bin Ladnn, but denies hn h1L'> any­thing to do with S11pt. II. 
A jury pool of 8:~ was called to the federal eourthousn in Alnxandria. Prosecutors and d11fensn lawyers will whittln that group to a jury of 18 -12 plus six altnrrmws -using pnmmpto­ry strikes, which allow each side to dismiss jurors l(w any rmL<>on thny choosn except raen or gendnr. 
Governor signs abortion ban law 
PIEHHE, S.D. -Gov. Mike Hounds signed lngislation Monday that would ban most abor­tions in South Dakota, a law ho aeknowlcdgod would hn tied up in court f(>r years while the statn challenges the 1973 U.S. Supreme Court decision that legalized abortion. 
The bill would make it a erime for doctors to perform an abortion unless th11 proe11dure was nneessary to save the woman's life. It wou1d makn no PXCP.ption for cases of rapP. or incest. 
Planned Parenthood, which operates the statn's only abortion clinic, in Sioux Falls, immediately pledged to ehallenge the meas­ure. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Purdue fraternity faces suspension 
WEST lAFAYETTE -Purdue University on Monday suspnnded thn school's Sigma Phi l~psilon fratnrnity chapter for more than a year for violating hazing rules aftnr a pl11dge wa<> hos­pitaliznd for drinking too much at a party. 
A univnrsity investigation showed that fratPrni­ty mnmbnrs during a Nov. 15 party at their dmptnr house provided alcohol to minors who were enmuragnd to play drinking games and consumn dangerous amounL<> of alcohol. 
Bush pushes for line-item veto 
Clinton the most recent president with selective vetoing power a decade earlier 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Seeking new power to w11ed home­town projects from legisla­tion passed by Congress, Presid11nt Bush on Monday asknd lawmakers to give him a modified version of tho li1w-item veto struck down by the Suprnm11 Court eight years ago. 
Like presidents dating back to Ulysses S. Grant, Bush wants the pow11r to strike individual itmns from a bill without having to veto tho nntirn mnasure. 
Prnsid11nt Clinton got that wish in 1996, when the n11w Hnpublican majority in the llousn pushed through a linn-item veto law that allowml him to kill individ­ual spending projnets and spedal-internst tax breaks. 
Two years latnr, th11 Suprnme Court dedarnd the law -one of the key planks of tlw llousn GOP's "Contract With Ameriea" ­unconstitutional beeauso it allowed tho president to amend laws passed by Congress. 

Bush is now pn~ssing for a modilind, weaker version. lnst11ad of' being able to strike items from bills, he would send one or mor11 itnms back to Congress for an up-or-down vote. Present law permits Congress to ignore these proposed rescissions, but und11r the Tenn., issu11d statements and restoring fiscal sanity in their minds and opposn thn Bush proposal lawmakers supporting Bush, as did sev­Washington," said Hep. Jeb id11a. would have to vote on them. eral conservative lawmak­Hensarling, H-Texas. Congress, by a hugo J~ar­If majorities in both the ers. The proposal may be gin, overturned Clinton's House and the Senate And Sen. John Kerry, D­helpnd along by the drive on vetoes of 3S military con­agreed with the president, Mass., who promoted a sim­Capitol Hill for so-eall11d struction prqjeets. the cuts would take effect. ilar approaeh in his presi­"earmark reform." Bush's v11rsion was aetual­
"Forty-three governors dential campaign against Senate Demoeratic leader ly pushed by Dnmocrats in have this line-item veto in Bush in 2004, immediately Harry Reid of Nevada said tho 1990s -induding Son. their states," Bush said. jumped on board. he was opposed to the idea Hobert C. Byrd of West "Now it's time to bring this "It's no secret that even though he supported a Virginia, who filed suit important tool of' tiseal disei· President Bush and I don't similar plan in 1995 when against the 1996 law. pline to Washington, D.C." agree on much, but I fully ofl'ernd as a weaker alterna­Still, a proposal similar to 
Bush has not vetoed any support giving him the line­tive to the GOP version. Bush's veto plan was actual­legislation during five years item veto," Kerry said. 'Tm The earlier version of the ly voted down by the Ilousn in office, but he said the going to introduce this legis­line-item veto was us11d by two years ago on a 237-174 modified line-item proposal lation, Congress should Clinton in 1997 against votn, with three out or four would help "reduee wasteful immediately pass it, and I about 80 paroehial projeets Democrats voting "nay." spending, rnduce the budget want to see President Bush and a handful of special­Some S9 Hepublieans, deficit and ensure that tax­use this veto pen to get interest tax breaks. including then-Majority payer dollars are spent tough on wasteful spend­Lawmakers' .enthusiasm li1r Leader Tom DeLay of Tex<L'> wisely." ing." the earlier veto power and Hules Committee 
House Speaker Dennis "Giving the president line­waned sharply, l11ading law­Chairman David l>r11ier, H­Hastert, R-111., and Senate item veto authority is essen­makers like Sen. Hobert Calif'.. also oppos11d the Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-tial to enforcing the budget Bennett, H-Utah, to change mea<>urn. 

AUSTRIA 

Iran deal could be close, U.N. says 
' 

divulge details of the plan. the chances of abus11.
Associated Press "I am still very mueh hopeful that in In return, the diplomats said Iran VIENNA-The head of the U.N. the next week, an agreement could be would be asked to reeommit to in­atomie watchdog agency said Monday reached," EIBaradei told reporters, depth IAEA probes of iL<> program on a deal on Iran's suspect nuelear pro­without elaborating. short notiee -sonwthing Tnhran can­gram could be only a few days away, Ilowever, the plan -which Russian celed last month after the agency's 35­making U.N. Security Council action Foreign Minister. Sergey Lavrov nation board votnd Feb. 4 to al11rt the unneflded. planned to discuss with officials in Security Council by passing on Iran's International Atomic Ener1-,ry Agency Washington -was expected to meet nuelear dossier resulting from almost head Moham11d EIBaradei did not elab­strong U.S. resistance over fears it three ymtrs of ageney investigations. orate. But his optimism was believed to could be misused to make nuelear Hussia and China, whieh both have be linked to a eonfid11ntial Russian pro­weapons. economie and strategie ties with Iran, posal to allow Iran to 11nrich some ura­The Russia proposal would allow voted with the majority of IAEA board nium domestieally, diplomats said. Tehran to eonduet small-scale enrich­members but insisted the coundl do They spoke on c,ondition of anonymity ment and ask the IAEA to set _the nothing until artnr this week's lAEA beeause they were not authorized to parameters of' such activity to minimize meeting in Vienna. · 

Tuesday, March 7, 2006

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
any easier, Etheridge said. "I think through the years

Rectors Congolese eat endangered pritnates 
rectoring has become more challenging, because the

continued from page 1 
students we get now have 

Associated Press -------------more problems that are 
But Etheridge said Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman was once a rector and said that backgrourrd in the residence hall com.mu­nity was important to bring to the Main Building. 
"Frankly, I'm delighted to see rectors being appointed to administration [posts] here at the University," Etheridge said. "I think that's a real positive thing 
1. because they bring an inti­
I 
I mate .. knowledge of the 
place. 
The position of rector at Notre Dame is distinctive both in what it offers and how it is structured, 
handshakes and sensual body
and thus "The way that the at Notre 
rubs. Bonobo spats are swiftly
invites a Dame is
rector position is set 

settled -often with a French
unique per­unique in 
up at Notre Dame, it's

spective, that it's 
kiss and a quick round of sex. 
Despite all the sex, however,
Jarret said. much more than just advertised 
"The way as a pastoral 

female bonobos give birth to a
watching over 

single infant only once every five
that the rec­ministry
people to make sure

tor position is position and 
years, making the species espe­
cially vulnerable. 
set up at people follow rules. It's that is, in 
Notre Dame, fact, what it 
The bonobo, or pan paniscus,
a privilege ofentering

it's much is," Dunn 
is native only to the vast rain for­
into people's lives in 

est in this huge central African
more than said. 
nation, living high off the ground 
just watching every kind ofmanner. " Jarret said 
over people to the religious 
in treetop nests. 
make sure structure of 
As few as 5,000 may now
Father Peter Jarret 

people follow t h e 
remain in Congo, down from an 
Keough Hall rector

rules," Jarret University 
estimated 100,000 in 1984, said 
said. "It's a privilege of entering into people's lives in every kind of manner. Our ability to walk with the people we live with academ­ically, spiritually, socially ... that's what makes it spe­cial." 
Those privileges, Etheridge said, are the rea­sons she has stayed a rector for more than 12 years. 
"Working with the stu­dents is the best part of the whole deal," she said. "Paperwork is the worst part for me. I just feel like it's an avalanche all the time." 
The burnout rate for rec­tors is high, she said, because the job can be very demanding. 
"It's 24-7, and there's some people who thrive on that, but there are other people who [let the] lack of privacy get to them." Etheridge said. "It fits well for some folks, but other folks I think find a couple years of it to be all they can manage." 
And the job isn't getting 
· Spring Break Specials 
t(,2.t ~ih &ead Avt. ~uih &end, Indiana A\(,(,fl (?14) 2.~·ti12. 
C-ome in or c.a\\ for T-&birts for 10ur team 
t\our6: 
years," Jarret said. 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd.edu 


The former "Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs" is expanding and seeking new 
15% off all 


undergraduate student members, regardless of sexual orientation. The newly structured council, the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students includes 
is now accepting applications.
Adidas Adilettes, Nike 

Applications are available in the Office of Student Affairs (316 Main Building)
10°/o off 
or on the Core Council web site
All Shorts 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 
~a\J endf> Marc.h n, 2.00(, 

Applications are due by 5:00p.m. on Tuesday,
wbi\J r,upp\ier, \ar,t 

March 28, 2006, and can be submitted to the 
expensive, clandestine meals at restaurants in the cities. 
One bonobo can earn $200 for Richard lpaka, a 50-year-old part-time poacher who lives in the provincial capital, Mbandaka. 
'That's enough money for two months," he said. 
Like many, Congolese, he said he did not know bonobos are found in the wild only in his country. And like many others,. he was skeptical that the ape is endangered. . 
"Our ancestors have been eat­ing bonobos for centuries. How could they disap-. pear?" Ipaka 

said. But the peace­loving bonobos  "Bonobos are an icon for peace and  in the forest because an angry tree stripped him of  
are increasingly  love."  its clothes.  
difficult to sight,  'The bonobo is a  
and not just because they're  Sally Coxe  man, only it ashamed to  is be  
good  at hiding,  Bonobo Conservation  naked. It is wrong  
suspended from  Initiative  to hunt· or eat bono­ 

the high branches of trees or swiftly traversing the lattice of thick, muddy roots strewn over the for­est floor. 
The best place to glimpse them these days may be the ·Bonobo Paradise sanctuary in Congo's capital, Kinshasa, which is home to a few dozen rescued from poachers by police. 
Poachers have devised an array of methods to bag bof.l.O­bos. 
Hunters in Congo's Equator province say the apes are most easily captured when asleep drunk, so poachers intoxicate them with beer and palm wine. The dazed bonobos are stuffed in bags and carted off to local mar­kets. 
Other poachers use guns, and some leave poisoned ineat in the forest, silently killing packs of up to 20 bonobos at a time. 


Ipaka, who uses a battle-worn Kalashnikov assault rifle to shoot bonobos sleeping in their nests, said he hunts most often with bands of unemployed militiamen left over from a string of rebel­lions, coups and conflict that rav­aged Congo beginning in the mid-1990s. 
The bonobo is the subject of age-old songs and legends, and conservationists hope to turn some of those traditions to their advantage. 
In the village of Botwalu, for instance, locals believe the bonobo was once a man who lived with their tribe but now hides 
bas," said Mokelo 

Moibula, chief of a village committee that works to protect bonobos. 
The Bonobo Conservation Initiative has begun working with villages that hold such hunt­ing taboos to create· a series of reserves for the graceful ani­mals. 
"So far we're working on an area larger than the size of Wales, and it's getting bigger," Coxe said. 
That may not be enough. Even provincial police who are sup­posed to protect the bonobo are mostly ignorant about dangers to its survival, and they are often sympathetic to those who eat it. 
Some officers consume bonoobo meat, too, said Clerivent Kanyamba, deputy chief of the Equator province police. 
"What can we do if bonobo meat is tasty?" Kanyamba said. 
kind of serious in nature, because I think the society we're living in is so much more complex," she said. 
Despite the challenges of being a rector, Etheridge has no plans to leave. 
"Hectoring has been very compatible with what I've elected to do here at the University," she said. "Currently I'm just happy being a rector." 
Though -this spring will be the last semester for Dunn and Jarre.t's responsibilities as rectors, they both said they found the religious aspect of the position to be one of a kind. 
"The rec­
tor position 

MBIHE-MOKELE, Congo ­Scientists arc struggling to save the fast-disappearing bonobo, the gentle "hippie chimp" known • for resolving squabbles through sex rather-than violence. 
Unfortunately, bonobos are prized by Congolese for their tasty meat, and many villagers who are illegally hunting the wiry, wizen-faced apes don't realize how close their prey is to extinction. 
"Bonobos are an icon for peace and love, the world's 'hippie chimps,"' said Sally Coxe of the Washington-based Bonobo Conservation Initiative. "To let them die off would be a catastro­phe." 
The animals are known for greeting rival groups with genital 
led  him  to  
his  new  
position.  

"In a religious community, you do what your religious superiors tell you to," he said. 
Overall, he said, rectors just want what's best for their dorms and for Notre Dame. 
"I think sometimes it can be good for the hall if, in some circumstances, there's turnover every five, ten 

Ino Guabini, a primatologist with the World Wildlife Fund. 
"There is no question that bonobos are seriously threat­ened," Guabini said, speaking over a shrill forest symphony of birds, animals and insects. "We need urgent measures or there is no way we can protect the species." 
But for poor villagers, bonobos can be lucrative business, with much of the meat heading for 
Monda1·fri~: 10 am to 1 pm ~atur~: lO am * (, pm visit our .,ebsite: 
Office of Student Affairs. 
~undar 12. noon~ t; pm w~.soue.rett.net 

Please visit our web site for more information. 


THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Ti.1esday, March 7, 2006 
page 7 
=-~==========-­

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

10,958.59 -63.00
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 996 liS 2,251 2,280,193,920 


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU) 
-2.16 -0.08 3.63 NASDAQ II0 TR (QQQQ) 
-0.87 -0.36 41.09 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) 
+0.05 +0.01 21.05 INTEL CP (INTC) 
-0.10 -0.02 20.30 FINISAR CORP (FNSR) 
+ 16.18 +0.66 4.74 
Treasuries 
I0-YEAR NOTE +1.15 +0.54 47.38 13-WEEK BILL -0.60 -0.27 44.65 30-YEAR BOND + 1.35 +0.63 47.23 5-YEAR NOTE +0.93 +0.44 47.54 
Commodities 
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.26 62.41 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) -I 1.20 556.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.30 89.25 
Excha Rates YEN 117.4300 EURO 
0.8327 POUND 
0.5713 CANADIAN$ 
1.1391 

IN BRIEF 
GM workers oppose health care hike 
DETHOIT -General Motors Corp. retirees asked a federal judge Monday to reject a set­tlnmcnt that would rnquire them to pay more for tlwir hnalth care, saying it violates their contraets. But CM and the United Auto Workers said the agreement is critical to the struggling automaknr's future. 
"This is the only hope that thnrn is that GM will be able to continue to survive," said .Julia l'nnny Clark, an attorney l'or the UAW. "GM is at risk of not being able to provide thesn ben­nfits." 
But Lnroy McKnight, 56, of Haslett, called tho snttlnmnnt "an unprneedentod attaek on rntirens." McKnight retired in 2001 after 30 years at GM. 
"I havn a deal with General Motors that is a contract I signed and thoy signed on the day of my retirmnent," McKnight said. McKnight's comnwnts brought elwnrs from some of the I00 (;M retirees who IIlind ovnrllow space in anothnr courtroom and a hallway. 
GM and tlw UAW, who reached thn agree­ment last fall, said the automaker is in dire financial trouble and must got some rnlief from its growing health earn eosts. The com­pany lost $H.(J billion in 2005 and spent morn than $5 billion on health earn. 
Stocks waver amid economy worries 
NEW YOHK-Stocks fluctuated Friday as Intel Corp.'s rt~ducml first-quarter revonue forecast added to worries about a slowing neonomy and shrinking corporate profil'-i. 
Tlw m~onomk outlook was brightmwd somewhat hy JWWS that the nation's service snetor grow faster than expeetnd last month, but downboat ronsunwr ronlidnnen data and lntol's warning lwlpml driVP tho market's dndine amid a wm~k of nrratir trading. 
Still, Wall Strm~t appnarnd to bn lighting to keep storks from falling too far, although investors have hnPn stiflPd by mnePrns about morn intornst rate hikes and rising nnnrgy prices, said Stnven (;oldman, ehiPf marknt strategist fi1r Wooden&. Co. 
"In gnnnral, tlwn~·s still a deennt amount of monwnt.um roming oil' tho start of tho year, whieh typically tmds to suppo1·t tho market," Goldman said. 
~==================~~ 
Deal may cause massive job cuts 
AT&T's acquisition of BellSouth Corp. could eliminate as many as 10,000 jobs 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-AT&T Inc. 
plans to cut up to 10,000 
jobs, mostly through nor­
mal turnover, if its $67 bil­
lion purchase of Bei!South 
Corp. is approved by 
shareholders and regula­
tors, AT&T's chief financial 
officer said Monday. 
The work force reduction 
would take plaee over 
three years, AT&T's Rick 
Lindner said. Before the 
cuts, the combined compa­
ny would have around 
317,000 employees, includ­
ing Cingular Wireless LLC, 
which is now an AT&T­
Bei!South joint venture. 
The new company would 
be the country's largest 
phone company -with 
nearly half of all lines. It 
also would be the largest 
cell-phone carrier and the 
largest provider of broad­
band Internet service. 
Still, investors and ana­
lysts expect it to pass regu­
latory muster due to the 
fact that phone companies 
aro faeing increasing com­
petition, especially from 
cable operators. 
The acquisition, which 
was announced Sunday, is 
expoeted to close next 
year. 
The 10.000 planned job 
cuts are in addition to the 
26,000 cuts AT&T has 
already announced ­
13,000 due to SBC's acqui­

sition of AT&T Corp., at first, increasing to $3 much over tho last der.ade. us to move to a single 
which closed in November, billion a year by 2010. We're anxious for their brand for wireline, for 
and 13,000 due to shifting Slightly more than one national headquarters to wiroless, for business and 
priorities in the business. third of the savings would move here." eonsumer, and that's 
The combined SBC-AT&T come from reduced labor Cingular's headquarters AT&T," said Handalf 
took the name AT&T Inc. eosts and consolidation of would remain in Atlanta. Stephenson, AT&T's r.hinf' 
At the Communications support functions and cor­More savings from the opnrating officer. "A single Workers of America, which porate staff, Lindner said. proposed acquisition would brand is much more cost would have about 200,000 The combined company come from reduced adver­efficient and far morn workers at the eombined would be based in San tising expenses and com­ell"octivo." eompany, spokeswoman Antonio, depriving Atlanta bining the backbone net­Under the terms of tho Candice Johnson said the of one of its largest corpo­work and information­deal, AT&T is paying 1.325 merger would be a "good rate headquarters. technology operations of of its own shares for each opportunity for job Georgia Gov. Sonny the companies. Be IISouth share. AT&T growth" as the company Perdue and Atlanta Mayor "Over the last couple of shares closed Monday expands into new tech­Shirley Franklin said years as we have operated down 97 cents, or :~.5 per­nologies. Monday they both will !1y Cingular and our Yellow cent, at $27.02 on the Now 
"We're not looking for to Texas soon to try to per­Pages venture, it became York Stock Exchange. job losses at all," Johnson suade i\T&T's executives to clear that there was a lot That put the value of the said. The union has not yet move their headquarters to of duplkation that could be offer at $35.80 pnr endorsed the merger. Atlanta. eliminated," said Duane BeiiSouth sharn. Those 
San Antonio-based AT&T "It's hard to replaee Ackerman, chief executive shares rose $3.04, or 9. 7 cxpeets the acquisition to 13el1South," Franklin said. of BeliSouth. percent, to close Monday save it $2 billion annually "They've contributed so "This merger will allow at $34.50. 
Fed expected to raise interest rates 
Special to The Observer more time. at Joust 4.5 porcnnt. Thern is a prndidnd 
Bernanke has made it clear in his first quarter GDP growth of 4.6 pnmmt 
HJITO!l'.'·i N(Fm: This is the first in a sponches that price stability is his pri­-up from the hit to growth last quar­
monthly series qfeconomic update arti­mary monetary policy goal. lie believes ter, when growth rate droppPd from 4.1 
cles written by members of the Student that keeping inllation low and stable pnrcnnt in the third quartnr to lJ1 pnr­
International Business Council. will help to foster economic growth and cent in the lilllrth quarter. 
increase jobs. The economy is eurrently The consumer confidence index w<L'-i 
so strong that many believn 1wen if the down to 101.7 in February, though an 
Aftnr raising short term internst rates F1~doral Heserve raisns rates too high, index of 106.8 in .January was a vast 
14 straight times to 4.75 pereent, the the eeonomy will be able to absorb a improvement over tlu~ low consumPr 
Fnderal Hnsorve is expected to raise small hit without serious consequences. eontidence of last quarter. 
ratns again in it.<> next meeting. This belief is supported by stronger Overall, the rising intnrnst rates are 
BPn Bnrnanke, tho now chairman of than expedod first quarter growth li1r expected to control inllation but will 
thn Federal Rnsnrvn, has thn same pri­the year. The economy slowed down continuo to limit 01~onomic growth. 
mary eoneern with raising intnrost rates h'reatly in tho fourth quarter of 2005, In other news, tho Federal Hnsnrve 
as his predecessor Alan Greenspan -due primarily to high oil prkes and Vice Chairman Hoger Ferguson 
inflation. Boca usn of this, it is likely that falling consumer confidence in the wake announced his resignation last wonk, 
under Bernanke, the Fflderal Heserve of Ilurricane Katrina. But first quarter leaving another position opr.n for 
will probably raise intnrnst rates by at growth shows a rebound from last President Bush to make an appointment 
least one-quarter of a point at least one quarter with expected growth rates of to tho Federal Hesnrve. 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, March 7, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

To scorn an ally 
1~0. Bo• 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikcGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOI! BusiNESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukbla SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebcrsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.I@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 63!-4540 sccne.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspapcr published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's 
College. Editori;ll content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurardy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. C'-<>mmentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authms and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free e.pression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters co the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q=tions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to EditQr in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th< Ob"""' (USPS 5% l-10011) io publiokd M<>nJ;y .~rough Fridar "''"~" during <:~m and vai:=;ui<m ~ri()d$. AsuhM:dp~ioA 1u The: Obs~f ~ $1 (J(} t~r o1te academic" year; $i"5 for eme 11<:m~rer. 
The Obsc:cvc:r is published ar. POSTMASTER 
024 S®th Dining J-l.all Scud -add.r~ c<mmi~ns.w: 
Notre Dame. IN 46-5-56...0179 The~;!~>«"" 
l'c:riod.ical.postagt paid a~ Nom-Dilmt: r.O.IX><719 
.md addiUornU mailing uffic<!$. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nmrt Dame, IN 465%-0779 
Tht Ohscm:r iii a memher ofthe N.stK"hitcd PtCSli, AU ttpmduaion rig_hu Jrc: 
ft$C!t'J"~. 

The pro-American, westernized, eco­nomically modernizing United Arab Emirates' state-run Dubai Ports World, owned by a dashing sheik as renowned in poetry as in horse racing, acquires a British company responsible for the opPration of American ports. Sounds like a great idea, no? It is a chance to bring a key American ally in the region even closer. Few things bind states' hearts mon~ lirmly than jointly shared economic interest. The congres­sional opposition to the Dubai Ports World deal is a shocking travesty that runs the risk of alienating an essential American ally in a region where true allies are as scarce as the sand is abundant. 
Congressional opposition either comes from a general desire to oppose the presi­dent or a sincere, though deeply mis­placed, opposition. Many Democrats have become accustomed to opposing the pres­ident in most everything he does, whether right or wrong. This is a political tactic designed to distance them as much as possible from the declining popularity of the current regime so that they may bene­lit in the upcoming election. These politi­cians have ehosen to make this stand through eowardice. They are playing upon the hysteria of a terrified population by shrieking at the false construction of the Arab bogeyman. It is an emotional appeal desi~:,rned to work upon the worst qualities of human nature. Shamed and debased are the times we live in. The aim of polities is to produce a healthy, pros­perous and strong state. Many woes will 

Ian Ronderos 
Liberated 

attend the state where pnrsonal ambition replaees the gnneral good as the aim of politics. 
If' thn opposition does not come from the aforementioned general opposition to the president, the state of all'airs is indeed more troubling. This form of opposition implies that the United Arab Emirates is either not a trusted ally or that if the 
U.A.E. is such an ally, there is another reason why DP World should not run the ports. The first alternative is patently falsn; the U.A.E. has allowed the United States to use her land, bases, ports and airspace during our military operations in that theatre. She has also functioned as a loyal ally during the "War on Terror." Congressional opposition must stnm from another cause that trumps the reality of the U.A.E.'s faithful alliance. 
The vast concern that overrides Dubai's friendship is that an Arab company will be running an important and sensitive industry. There was no eommotion or uproar when a British firm was operating our ports. Chaos and indignation erupts the very second that an Arab company is about to takn over. "How could we com­promise our sneurity in such a way?" There is no compromise occurring, as we are merely transferring the operation from one trusted ally to another trusted ally. Britain and the United Arab Emirates have both rendered crucial support and service to Ameriea. If our government should trust the former more than the lat­ter, it implies that there is some inherent quality present in the Arab Muslim world that makes even our best allies from the region suspeet at best. 
The racism howling through the hollow concerns of Congressmen will only serve to exacerbate the tension and resentment flowing through the Arab world. The administration has gone to great lengths to elueidate the fact that the "Global War on Terror" is not a "Global War on Arabs or Muslims," nor a ease of East versus West. President George W. Bush deserves credit for supporting the port deal. lin is staying true to his rhetorie. The congres­sional opposition is delivering the opposite messagll. They are in efl'eet telling the Arab Muslim world that Britain is trust­worthy, being a Christian western ally, but that the East needs to be viewed with dis­trust and kept at a safe distance. 
The need to cultivate friendships within the Middle Eastern world is all too appar­ent. Hostility in the Arab world comns largely from the pereeption that America favors Israel over the Arabs and that she tries to impose her values upon their world. America needs to take steps to break down the perception that she is always opposed to Arab interests. The delay over the port deal is another slap in the facn for thn Arab world and a great insult. Arrogance of this sort produces terrorism and makes America less sale. The desire to gain safety by insulating America will not work. Peace and security shall be born from global cooperation and mutual interest. The more the United States binds her interests with the rest of the world, the lnss incentive there will be for conflict and violence-on both sides of the relationship. 
Ian Ronderos is a senior majoring in the classics with a supplementary major in ancient Greek and Roman civilizations. Having retired from the College Republicans and adopted independent politics. he has entered the private life of peaceful contemplation. Ian can be con­tacted at irondero@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Sports  OBSERVER POLL  
Mary Kate  Ken Fowler  
Malone  Chris Khorey  
Peter Ninneman  Jay Fitzpatrick  What are you doing  
Karen I .angley Patrick Moore  Tim Kaiser Scene  for spring break?  
Viewpoint  Mark  
Alyssa  Bemenderfer  Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m.  
Brauweiler  Graphics  at www.ndsmcobserver.com  
Graham Ebetsch  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Submit aLetter "The leader ofgenius must have the ability to make different opponents appear as ~/"they belonged to one category."to the Editor at 


Adolf Hitler former German fuhrer
www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, March 7, 2006 page 9 
U-WIRE 
This column is a pipe bomb 

Last Thursday, Patrick Hanlin got on his bike and lefl for dass, work or wher­ovnr. The Ohio University graduate stu­dent probably never guessed that when hn parknd his bike and left it, he would eomn baek to find ~t Marc surrounded by pohcn Kozak ollknrs, lirn fighters and bomb squads. 
Illinois State
School ol'fidals and 
University

local authorities shut 
The Daily 

down four buildings 
Vidette

and bl01~kml stmets 
around an on-campus 
rostaurant aftnr polienmnn noticod a small stieknr that llanlin had placed on 
his hieydn. 
The stickor, of murse, read "This Biko Is a l'ip1~ Bomb." 
A bomb squad from 65 miles away in Columbus was called in and eventually subdued tlw bieydo by attacking it with a high-pressure spray of watnr. 
Aftnr the biko refused to cooperate, thny nventually foreed it open with a hydraulic tool usually used to pry aeei­dnnt victims from ears. Upon failing to lind any sort of shell or bomb circuitry in the innards of spokes and pedals, police soon learnnd that tho sticker was an advnrtisnmm1t for a Florida folk/punk band callnd, of all things, "This Bike Is a Pipn Bomb." 
And thnn the hilarity ensued. 

llanlin eame forward and identilied tlw bikn as his, and apparently tried to explain tlw situation to the police. 
Nnvertheless, his bike was obliterated, and he is now bning charged with "indudng panie" and could faee up to six months in prison. llopofully some­onn, at the very least, gavB him a ride homo. 
The chargn of the university's police is even more absurd than the situation itself. I wasn't even aware that "indue~ ing panie" was an ollieial law. If this was the easn, should wo loek up teachers for announcing a pop quiz'? Or on a national lnvel. jail the government any time they . raise the throat-level'! I don't like having my panic inclueed. 
More importantly, lnt's hope this does­n't ernate a trond of brutal honesty amongst terrorists. I low long before our mwmies start leaving around things that say "This tube of shaving cream is a dwmieal weapon" or "This rerun of Sninf'eld contains mind-controlling devieos'"? That would certainly induce more panic. 
Most hilarious of all is the fact that the sticker was vinyl, whkh means that if the biko actually was a bomb, somoone would have had to go through the trou­ble of specially ordering a sticker specif­ieally made to label an actual bomb. Not likely. 
Ohio University Dean of Students Terry "The llulk" Hogan condoned the action of police by saying, "This is one of these circumstances where, in these times, these are the kinds of incidents that cause all of us to take pause, and I think we have to be concerned." 
This short statement can be attacked sarcastically in many different ways. I'm sick of poople using the "in times like these" line. We're always in times like these. Seeondly, this guy has been riding around with this sticker on his bike for like two years, and it was just noticed now'? llow "concerned" are you really? 
In all seriousness, I don't mind the fact that poliee looked at the bike as danger­ously initially. What I do mind is the incredibly rash decisions that followed. Instead of saying, "Oh, well man, our bad, we were just trying to keep the kids safB, hero's a now bike and now we all are happy," they charge the kid with legal action so they don't look so foolish. If Hanlin's charges are carried out, I will be shocked. Not surprised, but still shocked. 
And don't think that Ohio University's students are letting this one go. Check out CafePress.corn/froehanlin, and you'll see many T-shirt and merchandise designs to raise money for Hanlin's court expenses and a new bike. '!'-shirts indude such slogans as "1, Myself. Am Aetually a Pipe Bomb" and hats that sport "This Head is a Pipe Bomb." 
The band itself is doing its part, as they are trying to raise money for Hanlin as well. They also said a similar occur­renee happened in Washington, D.C. in 1999, but the police checked it out, apol­ogized, and everyone went home happy. 
Pipe Bomb guitarisVvoealist, HymodeB, said that the incident in Washington did­n't spark press intBrest but attributes the_overreaction to the country's current state of hBightenBd panic. 
"For me, i'm first concernM with his bicycle, and now I hear he may face charges. This is really bad." 

Hegardless, this is already the most entertaining news story of 2006. That is, until PETA starts finding Pig Destro,yer stickers. 
This column originally appeared in the March 6 edition of The Daily Vidette, the daily publication at Illinois State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­saril.!f those of The Observer. 

Pants the world's 
greatest evil 
There is a greater threat to our culture, our soeiety and our very freedom -one that cuts across all borders and soeioeconomic lines. 
That threat is pants. 
Yes, pants. You 
Chreston

may be familiar 
Hyde

with them yourself. A recent survey 
Iowa State

found that one in 
University

three students is 
Iowa State

wearing pants or 
Daily

thinking about put­ting on pants at any given time. One in three! That's a huge number-it's like over a thousand! 
"But what's the threat of pants'?" you ask. "They keep me warm, and they look cool. See, mine have a little rip on the pocket so people think I've had them for a long time." 
Well, I say the threat is monumen­tal, and I don't think you've had those pants for very long, either. Pants have permeated our culture so deeply that we cannot distinguish ourselves from them any longer. 
Allow me to "break it down," as they say on the streets. 
First off, they're expensive. Pants can begin at the rate of $25 and rack up to almost $200 for the sweetest in sweet­ness such as Diesel and 
There is a greater 
Se7en Jeans. As college might be saying to your­students, it is impera­threat to our sell'. "llow can I solve tive that we keep up this'?"
culture, our society
with the latest trends In my eyes, there's
and our very

and be the spearheads only one solution: Stop of pop eulture, but we freedom. That wearing pants. That's simply cannot afford to right, throw away all
threat is pants. 
shell out money like this in order to stay current. 
Furthermore, pants cause undue stress on people when they're not worn properly or malfunetion. Take for example, "The Tuek." The Tuek occurs when the front of one's pants beeomes lodged under the tongue of said individual's shoe, thus giving him the appearance of a baekup dancer from a Wham! video. The Tuck requires an obvious effort to remove. Proper removal ean take a full stop-and-bend-over in order to pull the pant leg from beneath its leather trap, and this extra effort makes people think you're vain. Nobody wants to see you with your pants tucked, but they won't hesitate to mock you once you try to undo them. 
Pants are also beginning to eonfuse our societies' sexual identities, as evidenced by tho en10 kids phenome­non. Emo kids proudly embrace the wearing of girl pants on guys, citing a better nt and a stylish, uber-scmw look. But they fail to understand tlw underlying theory of gender-related marketing: Guys' pants arn meant to be worn by guys,. and girls' by girls. 
A possible explanation is an over­exposurn to the pigments found in All Star shoes and black band T­shirts. These pigments could be blocking the common-sense recep­tors in their fragile, deeply pained minds, thus causing thB confusion. 
Possibly the worst in tho list of' pant-related deviances is the button fly. The button fly is tho Chinose lin­ger trap of fashion, causing irrovoca­blo damages to all who woar it. It can slow the zipper-closing process by almost two times. And who can ever button that one button right before the top? You know whkh one I'm talking about-it's, like, not low enough to get a good grip on it, but if' you leave it undone, everyone notices that you're half zippod. Unacceptable, I say. Button llins are so diabolical that thny could have only ctime from onB source -tnrror­ists .,.---and I don't support terrorists. 
"Wow, Chrosten, I 
never knew pants were 
sueh a thrnat," you 
pants and pant-rclatnd 

itmns -bnlts, shorts, skirts-they are all evil. We can start a bonfire by the Campanile and regale in the f'reedom wn'vn regained by shedding our legged captors. 
I, for one, have already started my protest; I'm not even wearing pants as I write this. So take aetion imme­diately. Stand up in your lecture or lab, take off your pants and prodaim "I am not a terrorist, damnit," then throw them to the ground and embrace your freedom, you brav1~ American hero. 
This column originally appeared in the March 6 edition of the Iowa .'·:tall! Daily, the daily publication at Iowa State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Obser11er. 
Even Holocaust deniers deserve free speech 
.The Bill of Hights opens by forbidding Congress from passing any law "abridging freBdom of speech." But what happnns when proteeted idoas arB abhorrent to those who listen to them or, worse, when those ideas an~ completely and utterly wrong'? Nowhero is this quandary more pronounced than in 
Joseph

tlw problem of' doaling with 
Borson

llolocaust deniers. people who eitlwr dispute or refuse to accept that the systnmatie oxtnrmination of Brown over six million peopln nver University_oecurred. Brown Datly 
lloloeaust denial is not an histori­llerald cal ll~gacy. but a mntinuing global problem. Last wnnk, David lrving,'a British historian. was eonvictnd by an Austrian court of violating a law forbidding anyone from "denying, gross­ly playing down. or nxcusing the National Socialist gonocide." He was sentenced to three years in prison. This follows an ineident that occurred last December, when Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said the Holocaust was "a myth," and called for an interna­tional conferonce, led by deniers, which would "exam­inc the llolocaust." 
. Imprisoning the deniers is not only a nawed idea, but hopelessly hypocritical. Arresting Holocaust deniers only shows that the concept of minority rights (as, thankfully, deniBrs are still a small percentage of the general population) is not yet secure. Criminalizing hateful ideas only makes them morB appealing, and transforms people like Irving into martyrs. Expression can be painful, it can be hateful, and it can be-and oftnn is -based on faulty arguments and incorrect information. But that doesn't mean it shouldn't be free. Bather, it should be all the more protected. 
Ahmadinejad was roundly condemned by much of the international community, and that condemnation was fundamentally based on moral revulsion. Gnrmany, which knows bettor than any state other than perhaps Israel, the full meaning of the llolocaust, led the charge with words and arguments, not outright bans. 
There arc occasions, suth as libel or direct indte­ments to violence, where legal aetion is not only justi­liBd, but required. llowevnr, those situations arn rarn, and llolocaust denials simply do not rise to that st.an­dard_llatel'ul thought must be reeiprocally eonl'ronted with words, protest and fact, but not, if wn are tho sod­ety we say that we arB, with prison, lire or death. 
This column originally appeared in the March 6 edi­tion ofthe Brown Daily /Jerald. the daily publication at Brown University. 
The views expressed in this column are those r~f' the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

~-----­
THE OBSERVER 
' 
CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, March 7, 2006 
I scii'&1TliRn I 
A lesson in gaming etiquette 
Welcome to the Notre Dame bubble, where one can find a legion of Jep­reehauns, a football revival and ... Halo 2? • 
True, many students find themselves succumbing to the daily ritual of attending elass, completing papers and searehing for future employment. A typieal day may be filled with schol­arly activities from dusk 'til dusk in hopes of the fabled Notre Dame diplo­ma. But for many garners, a day is just more time to frag online. 
A glance over the Notre Dame server any hour out of the 24 typically reveals some students intent on dealing digitized death. The competi­tive spirit doesn't sleep, and apparently neither does a chunk of the gamer popu­lation. 
Playing video games has become one of the social activities of choice for the guy dorms, with games like "Halo" and "Mario Kart" being popular choices. 
A "Halo" party entails a group of guys huddled around a glowing television set, watching as Master Chief dies countless times for unknown reasons. Why does the "Halo" cyborg put himself through so much punishment for a fuzzy rationale? Perhaps he's fighting for some unknown love. Perhaps the Covenant stole his , favorite fuzzy blanket, and he simply wants it back. 
But an inevitable result is trash talking among those controlling the old Chief. Apparently having better hand-eye coor­dination gives a gamer the right to bring up questions as to the opponent's mental disposition and heritage. A broad vocab­ulary-often involving many four-let­tered words typically frowned upon in most societies-is also employed, much to the opponent's chagrin. 
Who aetually wins or loses the game doesn't change the behavior much either. A gamer ean redeem his loss by blaming it on a faulty controller, his teammates, the chosen battleground or even the aforementioned mental disposition and heritage of the opponents. Most garners feel that a loss can be turned into a moral victory if they are able to force their opponent into a stunned silence. 
The taunting can go beyond words, though. Many games, such as the afore­mentioned "Mario Kart," feature a but­ton specifically for taunts. Another Nintendo choice, "Super Smash Brothers Melee," features especially obvious, cut­ting in-game trash-talking. There are few insults that cut as deep as watching Pikachu smile and wave to the camera while your digital avatar blinks out of existence for the umpteenth time. 

Some gaming communities have even turned in-game taunting into an art. While the "Halo" series features no pro­grammed in-game taunts, this has not restrained some garners who have found subtle ways to ere ate their own jeers. Crouching over the fallen opponent, changing weapons and repeatedly hitting assorted buttons have all been employed in the search of creating new ways to insult the opposition. Using various weapon combinations, fans of the origi­nal "Halo" were able to figure out how to Moonwalk and even do a modified ver­sion of the Irish Jig. 
But despite one's intuition, behaving in the aforementioned manner is often dis­couraged. Not only does it have potential for offending the other parties involved, it also tends to run hand in hand with being alone on the weekends. It seems that gaming time has an inverse relation­ship with opposite sex popularity. 
But questions over personal lives aside, mouthing off does actually have a valid place in gaming. While poor sportsman­ship may have no place in certain venues -such as the Olympics or when the Spartans visit Notre Dame Stadium -it can add a new level of enjoyment to play­ing the game. This is the case because the very nature of the games addsa com­ical level to the trash talking. As Yoshi drives his kart across the finish line, and the silly Nintendo theme song plays, any resulting taunts only add to the ludicrous atmosphere. This isn't the Rose Bowl­it's a video game that stars a portly Italian plumber driving a go-kart. 
Video games themselves are essentially silly diversions and yet have reached a threshold that many students hold para­mount. Trash talking is a surefire way to engage both the hardcore and the casual in the game. It has held a place in many a gamer's heart since the arcade days of yore, when preteens would huddle around a "Street Fighter 2" unit, hurling Hadokens -and profanities -with Ryu. 
So the next time you fire up the trusty gaming system for a heated competition, and someone calls you something that would make your mom blush, give them your deepest smile and a hug. They're just keeping the spirit alive. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Photo courtesy ot gamespot.com Players compete in various modes in "Halo 2." The gaming community likes to participate in a variety of digital entertainment, often accompanied with taunts. 
DVD REVIEW 
Recent home releasE 
By TIM MASTERTON Scene Critic 
"Rent" hit Broadway in 1996, and ten years later, it came to movie theatres with a faithful, but stagnant movie adaptation from director Chris Columbus ("Home Alone," "Harry Potter"). Though it translated some­what poorly to the silver screen, this is a movie perfectly-suited for DVD. 
"Hent," a modern, loosely-based version of the Puccini opera, "La Boheme," was released into movie theatres in November 2005, and after about two months there, it made less than $30 million. Now it quickly heads to DVD where its bigg~st fans, or "Hentheads," as they are called, will likely eat it up. Old and new fans alike will enjoy what is essentially a 135-minute music video as DVD makes it possible to jump from scene to scene and skip to favorite songs. 
All through the film production process, there was much ado about being loyal to the vision of Rent's late composer, Jonathon Larson, as there had been when making the big move to the Broadway stage. Though this _was a good idea in 1996, the film craved a new direction. Six of the eight orig-inal Broadway cast members reprised their roles, but they are now a little too old for the parts they play, thus further 1imiting what could have been a wonderfully fresh interpretation of a great story. 

That's not to say that the cast isn't talent­ed -it is phenomenal. Jesse L. Martin as "Collins" steals the movie in the role he was born to play on stage and on screen. The chemistry between him and Wilson 
· Jermaine Heredia's "Angel" is beautiful and contagious. Trade Thoms as uptight yuppie "Joanne" is a pleasantly surprising, smart addition to the group. 
But "Hent" is stuek somewhere between the musicals-turned-films "Chicago" and "The Producers." Whereas "Chicago" is a fresh, exuberant, Oscar-winning adaptation of that musical, "The Producers" is very much a bland filmed version of what is done nightly on stages in New York and London. 
In "Rent," Columbus rarely tries anything brave or difl'erent. One successful attempt is a delightful extended dance break during "Tango: Maureen" successfully creating something not found in the stage version. Columbus also has created a barely-gritty­enough early-'90s New York City as the film's setting, but the camerawork is seem­ingly always moving and all too often mere­
. ly functions to observe inactive acting and boring staging. 
All that being said, the music and story of "Rent" are as strong and relevant as ever. The two-disc DVD set showcases the many strong musical numbers, especially the aforementioned "Tango: Maureen" and the fran­tic "La Vie Boheme." Also included are several deleted scenes, including an alternate ending that would have better 

Quick sequel mainta 
By MARK BEMENDERFER Assistant Scene Editor 
Sequels are hard to make. Either they 
have to live up to the success of.the first 
one, or overcome its many shortcomings. 
Some sequels have managed to surpass 
their predecessor, such as "The Empire 
Strikes Back." Others, such as "Indiana 
Jones and the Temple of Doom" and 
"Matrix Hevolutions," lost what made the 
original a hit. 
The original "Saw," shot on a budget 
vastly smaller than typical theater fare, 
was a wild success due to its imagination 
and innovative concepts. In a market sat­
urated with slasher films and teenage 
horror movies, "Saw" was a fresh diver­
sion for audiences. 
It was so successful that a sequel was 
greenlighted almost immediately, without 
the original director or writers. Fans of 
the original were worried about the obvi­
ous monetary motivation for the creation 
of a sequel, with the projected release 
date being less than a year after the .originals. 
The worry proved without warrant 
however, as "Saw II" lives up to the spirit 
of its predecessor. 

ly identifiable. One but help feel empathy 
ove the Detective's plight as watches his son face dange from a television set. 
Jigsaw, once again pl by Tobin Bell, is eerily re tic in a disturbing Taking Darwinian theory to an extreme, Jigsaw's motiva­tions and actions together in a twisted fashion 

For those who have not seen the origi­nal "Saw," the basic plot isn't too hard to get into. A killer titled "Jigsaw" is on the loose, placing people within elaborate deathtraps. Usually involving some form of self-sacrifice or mutilation, these demented games usually prove deadly for their contestants. 
"Saw II" picks up exactly where the original leaves off, with Jigsaw still at large and the cops closing in. Early into the movie, the cops finally catch up to Jigsaw and place him in custody. 
However, it is discovered that the son of one of the Detectives, played by Donnie Wahlberg, is in Jigsaw's custody. It is then up to the Detective to play Jigsaw's game, with his sun's life at stake. 
The son has been inserted into a house filled with macabre traps along with a group of ex-cons, and a timer reveals that a poison will soon kill them all. All of the events that unfold within the house arc broadcast onto a monitors within Jigsaw's base of opera­tions, allowing the cops to watch th activities. 
Unlike most horror movies, the charac ters within "Saw II" behave in an realistic fashion and are easi 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, March 7, 2006 
page II 
merely 'Rent'-able 
courtesy of movlewe•o.ca•m 

(Adam Pascali), left, shares a tender moment with Mimi (Rosario Dawson) Chris Columbus's "Rent." This 2005 film was a remake of the hit play. 
ndc-d tlw lilm. Hc-ntlwads will also takH in thn l'ull-lnngth documentary "No ay But Today" telling thn story of tho how's ITPat.ion, composer and its trip from 
to stagn to sermm. 
"llnnt" is a faithful adaptation of thn ten­old staging of an nndcaring musi1:al at might )nave fans wondnring "what 
if'. .. ?" What if a dirnctor had been brave enough to go in a new direction, with a new crnative approach and now cast? 
But in the end, "Rent" is still an enjoyable lilm that would make a good addition to any musical theatre fan's DVD collection. 
Contact Tim Masterton at tmastert@nd.edu 
s the 'Saw' legacy 

Photo courtesy of movieweb.com Kerry (Dina Meyer), left, regroups with another cop and Detective Mathews (Donnie Wahlberg), far right, against Jigsaw's fiendish plots In the DVD release of Saw II. 
at tlw shorking wrH·.Iusion of tlw film. 
Tlw s1wdal fnaturns prove light on tho I>VIl hownvnr. The original "Saw" rnr.dv1~d a spndal ndition only whnn the SP!ptel was relnasnd, with the original llVI> lwing fairly barnbonns. This prom­isns to hold trun with "Saw II." 
Basically a snrins of informative doeu­mnntarins on hnhind tlw sennn informa­tion, tlw !ipndal I'Paturns illuminate how tlw S)ll~dal ellnets worn complnted. h~aturing somn creativity on thn part of the special niTeets crew, they arn worth watehing but don't add too much to the 
111 Ill. 
With a "Saw Ill" looming on thn hori­zon, also sehmluled with a mere ynar for produetion, "Saw II" should be high on any horror fan's list. It's a gory, edgy trip that promises to stiek in the minds of' vinwnrs long after the cn~dits roll. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 

VIDEO GAME REVIEW 
'Black' a shallow, explosive thrill 

By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
The first person shootnr genre has been !looded in recent years with tho success of titles like "llalo" and "Half­Life." Enough derivatives have seen the market that they have begun to overlap. 
Criterion Games noticed this trend and -fresh off their suecess with the "Burnout" series -has decided to inject a fresh perspective. With "Black," they wanted to simplify things and remind garners what makes the genre fun. 
To stand out, Criterion made "Black" an explosive, exhilarating experience that foeuses on the guns and explosions. The closest equivalent being the Hollywood action film, the game is light on plot and heavy on property damage. Cars explode, win­dows shatter and buildings collapse under the barrage of rampant explo­sions eaused by the player. 
There is a plot however, despite how light or worthless it is. At the begin­ning, the gamer linds the main char­acter under investigation for his rene­gade actions while pursuing a high­profile terrorist. The story unfolds gradually with acted eut-scenes before eaeh level, but it bears little impaet on the aetual action. 
The characters about whieh the gamer hears during the investigation do play a role in the game itself, as they act. as invincible squad members. llowever, their limited artificial intelli­gnnen rnakns them little better than mobile shields and bullet magnets for the main charaeter. They do shout commands and warnings to the playor that arn very beneficial when trying to pinpoint a sniper or hidden roeket launcher. 
But thnse characters only play a lim­ited role within the game, and most of the time tho player will 
enen Hollywood again, think of thn lobby scene in thn original "Matrix," without the kung-fu elnmnnts. 
Plaster powders, wood splinters and columns shatter under the repeated salvos. Every environment features plenty of destruetion to satiatn evnn the most jad1~d f'irst person shooter fan. Sonw levels stand out more than others for different reasons, but thny all serve a eommon goal. Thn asylum !'natures a shower-room scene eerily similar to the one seen in "The Hock." while the bridgn level could be lil'ted out of many war movi1~s. 
The game snlls for $40, and there are reasons for this. A eomplete laek of multiplayer may turn ol1' some fans of the genre, as it has praet.ieally been a staple since Nintendo 64's "Goldeneye." The game is focusnd purely on the singlo player, and to its cn~dit, this oxtra attention to detail shows. . 
However, the single playnr dons have some issuns. Ignoring costunw changes, thnre are nssentially only three enemy typns, whieh an1 repeat­ed ad nauseam. While many Hollywood action films acknowlndgn their repetitive nature by ineorporat­ing car chases or kung-fu segments, "Biaek" is purely a one-trick pony. 
Critnrion has started a rnspnetable franchise with "Blaek," starring over­the-top action and gunplay. llowover, in doing so thny ignorPd tho evolution that has occurred within its own genre in ree<mt years towards a var­ied experienen and imnwrsivn story­lines. 
llopefully this will bo fixed with tlwir next experinwnt. But until this happens. "Biaek" rPmains an entnr­taining divnrsion instead of a must­buy. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
find this game to be a solitary event. That fits the focus of the game, however, as relentless 
Criterion Games
aetion and explosions 
are main course of' "Black." 
'Xbox, PlayStation 2
The action consists of some of the most fren­zied, chaotic scenes in 
&:9. over witnessed in an 
.. 
~·

action game. To refer­

.' 
I 
I

Black 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 7, 2006 
NHL 

~· 
Kozlov leads Atlanta to 4-3 win over Florida, 


from the top of the left circle winning streak. for his second shutout of the early in the second period for Justin Williams and Kevyn season and the Ottawa Senators the game's first goal. He scored Adams scored for Carolina, beat the Tampa Bay Lightning ·again when he stationed himself playing the second game of a on Monday night. by the crease during a faceoff five-game trip. The Hurricanes Emery, who is filling in for the and directed· Mike Green's pass have won five straight to open a injured Dominik Hasek, helped into the net with 0.5 seconds three-point lead over Detroit in the Senators win their fifth remaining in the period, giving the overall standings. They have straight game. Hasek, a six-time the Capitals a 3-1 lead. won 11 of their last 14 games Vezina Trophy winner, injured 
In the third period during a and 20 of 24. his groin 5 minutes into his first power play, Ovechkin supplied Gerber improved to 30-9-2, Olympic game with the Czech the cross-ice pass for Bryan allowing only Steve Rucchin's Republic on Feb. 15. Muir's one-timer that restored a goal at 3:28 of the third period. Antoine Vermette, Jason two-goal lead. Muir added Gerber had little chance on the Spezza, Mike Fisher and Peter another goal late in the period. goal, with Rucchin stopping Schaefer scored for the 
Jeff Friesen also scored for the Thomas Pock's shot from the Northeast Division-leading Capitals, who won for only the blue line with his skates and Senators. Ottawa is 37-0 when second time in eight games. Olie flipping in a short shot from the scoring four or more goals. Kolzig made 40 saves for career slot. Sean Burke made 30 saves for victory No. 250, tying him with The Rangers outshot the Tampa Bay. The defending Johnny Bower for 35th place Hurricanes 17-0 in the third Stanley Cup champion all-time. period. Lightning, who open a five-game 
Carolina took a 2-0 lead at road trip Tuesday at Pittsburgh, Hurricanes 2, Rangers 1 8:31 of the second period on have been outscored 18-4 in 
Martin Gerber made 37 saves Williams' 20th goal of the sea­three consecutive losses since to help the NHL-leading son. Rod Brind'Amour con­the end of the Olympic break. Carolina Hurricanes beat the trolled the puck behind the goal, Vermette put the Senators up New York Rangers on. Monday skated into the corner and fired 1-0 at 2:35 of the first. He night, spoiling goalie Henrik a centering pass to the scored from the low slot off a 
· Lundqvist's first start since lead­unchecked Williams on the far pass from Christoph Schubert ing Sweden to the Olympic gold edge of the crease. (ollowing a Lightning turnover. medal. Adams opened the scoring Emery made 13 saves in the Lundqvist, in goal for New with 1:09 left in the first period, first, including in-close shots by York for the first time since knocking a loose puck past Ryan Craig and Vinny Prospal beating Toronto on Feb. 10 in Lundqvist from the edge of the during a Tampa Bay power play. the Rangers' last home game crease. Ottawa went ahead 3-0 in the before the Olympic break, made second on goals 1 minute, 31 17 saves. New York has losnwo Senators 4, Lightning 0 seconds apart by Spezza (11 :38) straight following a seven-game Ray Emery stopped 31 shots and Fisher (13:09). 
Flyers beat Canadiens in shootout; Ovechkin leads Capitals in win 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Slava Kozlov scored the lone goal in the shootout to help the Atlanta Thrashers beat the Florida Panthers on Monday night. 
Bossa added a goal and an assist for the Thrashers, who won their second straight game. Atlanta has won six of its last eight and remain in ninth place in the Eastern Conference, three points behind Montreal, which lost 5-4 in a shootout at Philadelphia. 
Kozlov, who gave the Thrashers' their last shootout win Feb. 11 at Montreal, beat Florida goaltender Roberto Luongo with a glove-side wris­ter. 
Olli Jokinen scored his 28th and 29th goals and had an assist for the Panthers, who have lost three straight and now are 8-22-4 on the road. 
Kari Lehtonen had four of his 40 saves in overtime, the best coming when he dropped to stop Jokinen's wrister with his right leg pad. 
Luongo saved 31 of 34 shots, including two in overtime. 
Brad Larsen's short-handed goal gave the Thrashers a 3-2 lead with 16:28 left in regula­tion. Hossa was largely respon­sible, as he made a one-handed pass to himself off the left boards to beat Jokinen. 
After Bossa's wrister bounced 
off Luongo's skate and off to the 
right side of the slot, Larsen 
beat the goalie glove side. 
Jokinen tied it at 3-all with 
5:01 remaining. 
Greg de Vries gave the Thrashers a 1-0 lead with his seventh goal, a slap shot from the top of the slot 2:48 into the first. 
Jokinen, the subject of trade talk as the NHL faces a 3 p.m. Thursday deadline, tied it at 1­all with his 28th goal, with a slap shot from the point outside the left circle. 
Bossa's 30th goal gave the Thrashers a 2-1 lead at the 
14:29 mark of the first period. 
Flyers 5, Canadiens 4 
Petr Nedved scored the deci­sive goal in a shootout, helping the Philadelphia Flyers snap a four-game losing streak with a victory over the Montreal Canadiens on Monday night. 
Peter Forsberg had one goal 
and scored to extend the 
shootout after the Flyers' first · two shooters missed. 
R.J. Umberger, Eric Desjardins and Joni Pitkanen also scored for Philadelphia, which had lost three straight since returning from the Olympic break. 
Mike Ribeiro had two goals 
and Chris Higgins and Sheldon 
Souray also scored for Montreal. 
The Canadiens forced overtime 
with two goals in the final4:30. 
Montreal's three-game win­
ning streak ended, but the 
Canadiens are unbeaten in reg­
ulation in their last nine games, 
going 6-0-3. 
Ribeiro scored the first goal 
during the shootout on 
Montreal's second attempt. Mike 
Richards, who missed twice on 
excellent chances in overtime, 
then muffed his shot. 
But Michael Ryder's shot 
sailed wide and Forsberg scored 
on a backhander. After Robert 
Esche stopped Alexander 
Perezhogin, Nedved won it with 
a backhander. 
It was an important victory for 
Philadelphia, which has rapidly 
dropped in the standings. The 
Flyers led the NHL in points (62) 
when they returned home in 
mid-January following an 8-2-1 
road trip. But they're just 6-8-4 
since and have dropped to fifth 
place in the Eastern Conference. 
Souray tied it at 4 on a power­
play goal with 1:43 left in regu­
lation. His slap shot from the left 
circle sailed past Esche. A hook­
ing penalty on Forsberg gave 
Montreal a four-on-three advan­
tage as each team already had a 
player in the penalty box. 
Ribeiro's second goal made it 4­
3 just 2:47 earlier. 
The Flyers scored a pair of power-play goals 2:43 apart in the second period to break a scoreless tie. 
Capitals 5, Islanders 2 
Rookie Alex Ovechkin scored 
his 40th and 41st goals Monday 
night, and the Washington 
Capitals opened a five-game 
homestand with a victory over 
the New York Islanders. 
Ovechkin scored in his sixth 
straight game, matching his best 
streak, and became the first 
Capitals player to hit the 40-goal 
mark since Peter Bondra had 45 
in 2000-01. Ovechkin also added 
a third-period assist for his 76th 
point of the season, 10 ahead of 
Pittsburgh's Sidney Crosby in 
the rookie scoring race. 
Ovechkin beat goaltender 
Garth Snow with a slapshot 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 J.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classified's is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web  515 St.Joe: 7 bdrm,area of student  1-7 bdrm. homes starting@  
site:mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary  rentals, $1200/mo. 574-250-7653  $200/student,  
FoR SALE  FOR RENT'  574-993-2208 or  24-hr.maint.,free pool tables,  PERSONAL  
grooms@ourwebspot.net  Furn.house Corby. 574-309-3105  1st mo. free.  
Two story hous!3 completely remod­ Call574-250-7653 or  
A 4 bdrrn, 2bth newly  Just 1 block from campus!  A 4 bdrm, 2bth house near campus.  eled 2003. Ready for immediate  visit bluegoldrentals.com  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don  
remodeled house  For lease, 4 brand new  All appliances included.  occupancy or next school year. Off  not go it alone.lf you or someone  
near campus.  3 bedroom condos  Pets welcome. $1350.  street parking includes motion sen- you love needs confidential support  
$90,000.  ranging from $1500-$2200 per  Call 220-8666.  sor light for security. Four individu­ or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. 
TICKETS 
Call 220-8666.  month.  ally locked bedrooms, central sta- Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more  
574-243-4554 ext.203.  COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINI- lion monitored security system, six  information, see our bi-weekly ad in  
3 BDRM RANCH  No utilities included.  UMS  blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop  THE OBSERVER.  
ON JUDAY LAKE.  AVAILABLE FOR 06-07  in front of house, surrounded by  REO/BLUE OYSTER CULT first 3  
WALK TO CAMPUS.  WALK TO SCHOOL  SCHOOL YEAR.  other student housing, Laundromat  rows. OAR. first 3 rows &  Hmmm... cute, has own place, no  
329-0308  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES  TWO BEDROOM,TWO BATHS.  next door, basement available for  James Taylor tix.  fiddle, no groupies. Euydice.  
MMMRENTALS.COM  HURRY.  storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks,  Call 272-7233.  Aristaeus: You are my life, my pas- 
Complete PS2 system,  532-1408  235-7234 FOR MORE DETAIL.  etc., new furnace and central air,  sion, my everything. Meet me  

works well. $100.  new kitchen including new stove  TOP DOLLAR PAID FOR  tonight by moonlight in cornfield.  
mcarrasc@ nd.edu.  123 ND Ave. 3-bdrm,  2-3-4 BEDROOMS. Immediate &  and refrigerator, large living room  YOUR FOOTBALL  Eurydice  
I buy broken  1.5 bath.  2006-07. Security,phone included.  for TV or entertaining, free trash  SEASONTIX.  
PS2s.  Call574-229-0149.  315-3215. ndstudentrentals.com  removal. Call 289-4071.  PLEASE CALL 277-1659.  Pg 16: George Michael and Maebe  

AROUND THE NATION 
Monday, March 7, 2006 
NBA Standings 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
IPlllll  rncord  pd.  GB  
New Jersey  32·26  .552  
Philadelphia  30·29  .508  2.5  
Boston  24·35  .407  8.5  
Toronto  21·38  .356  11.5  
New York  16·43  .271  16.5  

Eastern Conference, Central Division 
(I'll Ill rN'OJ'd pet. GB 
Detroit 48·11 .814 
Cleveland 34·26 .567 14.5 
Indiana 30·26 .536 16.5 
Milwaukee 29·30 .492 19 
Chicago 26·33 .441 22 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division IPam rPC~OJ'd peL (~B 
Miami 38·20 .655 
Washington 30·28 .517 8 
Orlando 20·39 .339 18.5 
Atlanta 19·39 .328 19 
Charlotte 16·44 .267 23 
Western .Conference, Northwest Division 
tna m t·m~ord pc~L GB 
Denver 32·28 .793 
Utah 28·31 .780 3.5 
Minnesota 26·32 .559 5 
Seattle 23·37 .534 9 
Portland 19·40 .450 12.5 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
l<'atn rPcot·d pet. GB 
Phoenix 41-17 .707 
LA Clippers 33-25 .569 8 
LA Lakers 31-29 .517 11 
Sacramento 28·31 .475 13.5 
Golden State 25·34 .424 16.5 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
li!lllll record pet. GB 
San Antonio 46·12 .793 
Dallas 46·13 .780 0.5 
Memphis 33·26 .559 13.5 
New Orleans 31·27 .534 15 
Houston 27·33 .450 20 
NCAA Baseball AP Top 25 
team 2005 record 
1 Texas 56·16 2 Clemson 43·23 3 Florida 48·23 4 Georgia Tech 45·19 5 Cal State Fullerton 46·18 6 North Carolina 41·19 7 Rice 45·19 8 Oregon State 46·12 9 Tennessee 46·21 10 Missouri 40·23 11 Pepperdine 41-23 12 Tulane 56·12 13 Mississippi State 42·22 14 South Carolina 41·23 15 Florida State 53·20 16 Arizona State 42·25 17 Southern California 41·22 18 Arkansas 39·22 19 Texas Christian 41·20 20 louisiana State 40·22 21 Fresno State 30·29 22 long Beach State 37-22 23 Mississippi 4B·20 24 North Carolina State 41-19 25 California 34·23 

around the dial 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 

Pennsylvania at Princeton, 7 p.m. ESPNU 
NHL 
Colorado at St. Louis, 8 p.m. OLN 

CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
MLB 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS-Kirby Puckett died Monday, a day after the llall of Fam1~ out­finlder had a stroke at his Arizona homn. lin was 45. 
l'u1~kntt diocl at St. .Joseph's Hospital and Medieal Center in Phoenix. lin had b1wn in intensive earn sinco having surgery at another hospital following his stroke Sunday morning. 
The bubbly, barml-sluqwd Puekolt carried the Twins to World Series titles in 1987 and 1991 before his career was eut short by glaucoma. !lis family, friends and for­mnr teammatos gathered at the hospital Monday. 


Puckett was given last riles and died in the after­noon, hospital spokns­woman Kimberly Lodge said. 
"On behalf of Major League Baseball. I am tnrri· bly saddenml by thn sudden passing of Kirby Puckett," eomrnissionnr Bud Selig said. "lie was a Hall of Famer in every sense of the term. 
"lie played his fmtire career with the Twins and was an icon in Minnesota. But he was revered throughout the country and will be remembered wher­ever the game is played. Kirby was takPn from us 
IN BRIEF 

Nationals sign lease for 
new stadium WASIIINGTON -Mayor Anthony 
A. Williams signed the lnase for a nnw Washington Nationals' ballpark Monday, a day after Major League Base1ball signed tho deal. 
The lease calls for a ballpark to be built along tlw Anaeostia Hiver, south of the Capitol, but limits eity spend­ing on the projeet to $611 million. 
"Thn sig1wd lnasn is tlw grnen light we nnPdPd to turn this dream into a reality," said Williams, touting tlw nc:onomk bntwlits of a 1:onverting an industrial area into a ballpark and nntPrlainmPnt district. "With a rnvi­taliwd sout.lwast. wo will n1ap lnns of' millions of' dollars in IWW 1.ax r!'V· t'lllll' in tlw roming years. 
Tlw signatU1'!1S or Williams and mPmlwrs of thn District of Columbia Sports and l·:ntnrlainniPIIl Commission rlear tho wav for tlw l'ity to sPII $5:{5 million in 'c:onstruc· Lion bonds. Williams spokPsman much too soon -and too quickly,'' he said. 
Puchtt broke into the majors in 1984 and had a career batting averago of .318. Glaucoma Jell the six­limo Gold Glovo center linlder and 10-timP All-Star wit.h no choiee but to retirn after the 1995 season when he went. blind in his right eye. 
Out of the gamn, tlw 5­foot-8 Puckett put on a con­siderabln amount of weight, which eoncPrnnd those dose to him. 
"It's a tough thing to sen a guy go through something like that and come to this extent," former tParnmate Kent llrbek said Monday 
page 13 

night. 
"That's what. really hurt him bad, when he was !breed out of thn ganw,'' hn said. "I don't know if lw nvnr meovernd from it." 
AskPd what hn would rnmnmlwr the most from their playing days, llrlwk quickly answPrPd, ".Just his smile. his laughter and his love ((u· tlw ganw." 
Puckntl was elnrted t.o tlw IJail of Fanw on his lirst. try in 200 I and thrilled the crowd in Cooperstown when lw said, ''I'm !.Piling you, anything is possibln" during his induction spned1. 
His plaque praised his "cvnr-presnnt smiln and infectious exuberance." 
Vince Morris said. 
Chief Financial Officer Nalwar M. Gandhi, who was out of town Monday, will authorize the sale of the bonds in the next few weoks, Morris said. The leasP will take elTect aftnr the bonds are sold. Beckett upset over poorspring outing 
ST. PETEHSBUHG. Fla. -Josh Beckett refusnd to make excuses for a rocky outing in his spring debut for the Boston HPd Sox. 
Tlw right-hander. acquired from Florida in a snven-playt1r t.radP dur­ing tlw olTsnason. allowPd livn runs in thnw innings of Boston's S-7 virto· ry owr llw Tampa Bay Devil Hays on Monday. 
l·:wn though it's only spring train­ing, Bndntt did not take t.lw pPr· formarH'I' lightly. 
"It's not likn I was just out tlwrP trying to throw my pitrlws. If I was going lo do that. I would havP just thrown a !iO-pitrh bullpen. Wlwn I'm out there, I'm trying to get people out," the 200:{ World Series MVP said. 
"I wan ted to gnt a fen! for these guys lthe Devil Haysi. just like thoy wantod to got a feel for me. They felt me pretty good,'' he said. Big Ten NCAA Tournament 
bids up in the air 
INI>IANAPOI.IS -l~vnn as tho Big TPn tournanwnt drc1w to a close, qunstions about the otlwr tourna­nwnt W!11'1' casting a shadow on tlw happnning-s in Conseco Finldhousn. 
Tho biggPsl: llow many hids will thn confPrl'tH'I' gPt wlwn t.lw NCAA's (> !i · t n a rn fin I d is a nn o un r P d 1w x t Monday'? 
Pour tPallls SPI'IIl to bn locks: Ohio Stall', tlw rPgular·sPason champ; l'urduc1, whil'h advall!'c'd to tiH' litln ganw: Mirhigan Stall', last yPar's Big­'I'Pn tournPy champ and national run1wr-up: and Min1wsota. tlw tour­namPnt's third SI'Pd. All l'our havP b1111n rankPd most of' tl1n sPason. 
page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, March 7, 2006 
NFL 

UNIVERSITY Of NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS 
Free agency start delayed to Friday 


h:eub~ MUSIQVE 
CONCERT XXVI 
NFL owners to meet today to discuss new union proposal 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-For at least a few more days, dozens of high­priced NFL players still have jobs. 
NFL labor talks took a new twist Sunday night when the league and its players' union agreed to postpone free agency another 72 hours, giving the sides more time to work out a deal on a contract extension. 
The decision came just four hours after negotiations had broken off, leaving many veter­ans in danger of becoming salary-cap casualties. Owners will meet [todayI in Dallas to decide whether they want to take the union's latest offer. 
Free agency originally was supposed to start Friday, but was pushed back to 12:01 a.m. Monday. Now, it's set to begin at 
12:01 a.m. Thursday. 
In the meantime, the deadline for teams to get under the salary cap also was delayed. 
That gave the Oakland Raiders a reprieve-they thought they'd be forced to release quarterback Kerry Collins, saving $9.2 mil­lion in cap space. The New York Jets cut center Kevin Mawae, who is 35 and missed the final 10 games last season with a tri­ceps injury. 
And according to an official with knowledge of the deal, line­backer LaVar Arrington agreed to a buyout of his contract with the Washington Redskins, the team believed to be in the most cap trouble. The team said the departure of the three-time Pro Bowler would provide "much needed salary cap relief." 
Other big names also could go if teams try to squeeze under a salary cap of $94.5 million. If a deal is reached, the cap could go as much as $10 million higher -in other words, allowing teams to keep some of the play­ers. 
Amid all the labor back-and­forth came news that running back Shaun Alexander was stay­ing put: The league's MVP agreed to return to the NFC champion Seattle Seahawks for $62 million over eight years, with $15.1 guaranteed, accord­ing to his agent, Jim Steiner. 
The union broke ofT Sunday's bargaining session. 
"The talks ended after the NFL gave us a proposal which pro­vided a percentage of revenues for the players which would be less than they received over the last 12 years," said Gene Upshaw, executive director of the NFL Players Association. "After suggesting we extend the waiver deadline from six o'clock to 10 this evening, they gave us a new proposal which was worse than their prior offer. Quite naturally, we rejected that proposal and saw no need to continue meeting." 
But Harold Henderson, the NFL's executive vice president for labor relations, said the union rejected a proposal that would have added $577 million for players in 2006 compared to 2005 and $1.5 billion in the six years of the extension. 
"It's an unfortunate situation for the players, the fans and the league," Henderson said. 
After a conference call between owners and league offi­cials, including commissioner Paul Tagliabue, the league announced the extension. 
"The NFL and the NFL Players Association have agreed to extend the start of the 2006 league year for 72 hours -until 
12:01 a.m., EST, Thursday, March 9 -in order to allow the NFL clubs to meet in Dallas on Tuesday to consider the NFL Players Association's offer," the NFL said. 
Shortly afterward, Upshaw said: "The NFL negotiators called us tonight after our nego­tiations broke ofT to indicate that they will take our complete package to the owners for an approval vote on Tuesday." 
"We have therefore agreed to extend the free agency deadline until midnight Wednesday in order to provide time for that vote to be accomplished," he said. 
These negotiations were by far the most difficult since the NFL and the union first agreed to free agency and a salary cap in 1992, ending years of labor unrest that included player strikes in 1982 and 1987. The contract has been extended sev­eral times since then, most of the time with ease. 
Even now, the contract doesn't expire until 2008, but this would be the last year of a salary cap -2007 would be uncapped, which could lead to wild spend­ing by some teams and little by others, creating a haves/have­not situation similar to the one in baseball. 
One reason these talks were more difficult is that the players asked for a change in the sys­tem. 


CHANT AND POLYPHONY FOR THE FIRST SUNDAY OF LENT 
SCHOLA MUSICORUM 
8:30 AND 9:30 P.tvL VVEDNESDAY. MARCH 8, 2005 
REYf:S ORGAN AND CHORAL HAI.L MARl[ P. Dt:l\ART(lL(l CfNTEil FOR THE PERFORMING t\IUS 
( ~ J Y ~l ~ ~ I ~· ¥ .,~ :t TICKETS $3 
~DEBARTOLO

NlHIU: OAMf PHONE 574-63!-2800 (~ Pf:RfORMING ARTS CENTER 
~·:.*i.<ttlf.''W~~:;r•W ~:~·~M 


Miss i)~nis~ 1~r~n~ (j~nz~!~z. 
Wi~hin~ y~u ~ J-{~ppy 21st··· t'r~ro th~ e)JJ~ ~nd 
(O)lJb)', 
TJliGPe:>i)1 

'll1esday, March 7, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Seahavvks, Alexander sign record contract 
through signing and other

Pro Bowl running 
bonuses and 2006 basn salary.back inks eight-year, The $62 million total excends thn eight-year, $60 million eon­$62 million deal tract LaDainian Tomlinson signed with the San Diego
AssociatcJ Press 
Chargers in 2004. 

KIHKI./\ND, Wash. -The "This contract is truly a crilidsm followed Shaun blnssing. To be the highnst paid Alexander. running back ever is quite an 
lin didn't run hard botween honor," Alexander said. "It's tlw tackles. lie avoidnd hits. lie prntty good." wouldn't bl()(:k blitzing line­Always jovial, Alexander harknrs or catch passns out of talked about making multiple thn.hackfinld. Super Bowl trips with the 
Snahawks presidnnt Tim Seahawks. Once a deal was Husknll !ward it all, but never reached Sunday night, let it influnncn his opinion of Alexander began text messag­tho Pro Bowl l'lllllling back. ing with rookie linebacker Lofa Huskllll wanted to see Tatupu and talked with quar­/\lexandnr for himsnll' during terback Matt llasselbnck about the 2005 season and determine getting to next year's Super his futuro value to the Bowl in Miami. Seahawks. But Alexander also acknowl­
/\h~xander became the NFL edged he probably could have MVI' and his reward was the made more by leaving Seattle richest running back contract as a freo agent. Alexander con­in NFL history-an eight-year, sistently stated his intention $(,2 million deal with the NFC was to stay put and stuck by champions he signed on his word. Monday. "Everybody know this is my 
"We all know Shaun can city," Alexander said. "I wanted scorn touchdowns and rush for to play here. and my goal when a lot of yards and that's a groat I first got here was to do stun· thing for a running back. But Seattle had never seen before. we talked ... about the little "It's rnally simple. When you things," Huskell said during a have good people and every­press eonl'nrnnce at team head­body is going al'ter the same quartnrs on Monday. things, it's· easy to make the 
"To Shaun's credit, he decision about coming in." improved in all of those areas, It was widely assumed und that's a credit to him and Aloxander would command that's another big reason while over $20 million in guarantees we are horn today." -given that last offseason 
Alexander's agent, Jim Seattle sprang for a $16 million Steiner, told The Associated bonus to re-sign Hasselbeck Pross on Sunday night that the and another $20 million-plus in eontract ineludes over $15.1 bonuses to keep perennial Pro million in guaranteed cash, Bowl tackle Walter Jones. 
NASCAR 

New Hall of Fame site set 
Lowe's Motor Speedway in sub­expeetnd to takn t.he package to
Chairman chooses 
urban Concord is home to the the city c.ouneil for approval at a longest race on the Nextel Cup Monday twnning meeting. 
Charlotte as city to 
circuit, the Memorial Day week­Charlottn toutnd its proposalenshrine top racers end Coca-Cola 600, and has with architnctural drawings by 
long hosted N/\SC/\H's annual I.M. Pei, noted dnsigner of tlw 
all-star race. famous pyramid addition to the
Associated Press Nearly all the top race teams Louvre in Paris and tho east CH/\HLOTTE, N.C. are headquartered in the com­wing of Washington's National NASC/\H's first I !all of Fame will munities north of the city, and Gallery. Those drawings are be built in downtown Charlotte, many top drivers own luxury dominated by a banknd curvn within miles of the garages and condominiums in downtown that eneireles the building, sprawling mansions that make Charlotte or palatial homes on evoking the shape or a spond­the region an epicenter of the nearby Lake Norman. Dale way. sport. Earnhardt Jr., one of tho most From one cornnr or the build­The selection of Charlotte for popular drivers, lives nearby ing, a latticework tower embla­the site of the $107.5 million and has said Charlotte should zonnd with the N/\SC/\H logo hall ended a yearlong race fea­get the hall. rises, reminiscent of the towers turing four other cities. The hall In billboards and bumper that display race standings from is expected to lure hundreds of stickers distributed as part or the infield of most speedways. thousands of NASC/\H fans the city's campaign for the hall, Under N/\SC/\B's deal with annually, and officials hope it officials boasted, "Hacing was Charlotte, ground is to be bro­will open in 2009. built hero. Hacing belongs here" ken by the spring of 2007, with "In the end, you look at what's and "We Eat, Sleep & Breathe opening sehedulnd for no latnr going to be best in the long Haeing." than March :n, 2010. run," NASCAR chairman Brian Felix Sabates, who with fellow The hall is to be owned by thn Franco told a crowd of about team owner Hick Hendrick city of Charlottn and operatnd 1,000 people at the city's con­heIped spearhead Charlotte's by its convention and visitors vention center Monday. campaign, said the deal was burnau undnr a contract with The remaining finalists were completed Friday. Ollicials were N/\SC/\H that runs into 203M. Daytona Beach, Fla., and Atlanta. Hichmond, Va., and 
Acaden1ic Freedo111 
Kansas City, Kan., were elimi­
at a_ Catholic University
nated earlier. "As a guy, I'm disappointed. They decided to marry the girl 
A Notre Dan1e Faculty Foru111 
next door," Georgia Gov. Sonny Perdue said. "We had a lot to otTer. It could have been a great 
Wednesday., March 8., 2006 
marriage." 

I4I DeBartolo Hall
Hobin Braig, president of Daytona International 
3:00 -5:00 I~·"'· 
Speedway, added: "It would've been a great show for us, but we'll rebound from it." 
Speakers.­
Sports marketing experts have 
Fr. James Heft described the hall as a once-in­
University Professor of 
a-generation opportunity to 
Faith and Culture 
spur tourism among N/\SCAR's 
Chancellor, University of Dayton
famously loyal fan base. Charlotte's proximity to the 
Jonathan Knight
heart of the sport was cited 
Director, Program in Academic
repeatedly by supporters. 
Freedom and Tenure, 
American Association of 
University Professors 
The Office of Student Affairs·is no.w accepting 
General di.s·c·:ussion l1'illfollow 
nominations for the 

All.ft.u.:ulty and students are >1'e/cotne to attend. 
Sponsored by the University or Nott·e Dan1c Faculty Senate
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in J ournalisrn 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff,_ or fellow students. 
For a nomination form, please visit our website at: 
Bon Jovi St. Patrick's Day 
r,~,@@:;'D©e<':~Cf~~;,q;x;xx:X;JX;~~
http://osa.nd.edu 

bunjovims(<!JAOL.oom 

Nlnninations are due hy Thursday, March 9, 2006. 
,--------------------­
page 16 Tuesday, March 7, 2006
The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Seahawks, Gaels earn automatic bids to tourney 
Associated Press plays." our way in. foul trouble, scoring 12 for the Peacocks (17 -15), who came The Seahawks (25-7) earned "We did that tonight." Iona, which won its conference­out flat, a result of playing their 
HICHMOND, Va. -With a 23-the league's automatic berth in For the Seahawks seniors, leading seventh MAAC title and . fourth game in four nights. point lead whittled to almost the NCAA tournament, and left most of whom were bit players first since 2001 -the last time Besides leading St. Peter's to nothing, North Carolina­Hofstra and co-league champi­when Wilmington last won the the Gaels qualified for the its first MAAC championship Wilmington's T.J. Carter put it on George Mason hoping for at­tournament title in 2003, the NCAA tournament. Kiril game appearance since 1999, upon himself to take control. large invitations. victory was verification of their Wachsmann added 11 points the senior guard scored 95 
Carter scored 12 of his 23 In victory, Wilmington also excellence. and 12 rebounds and Burtt was points in four games -passing points in the final three minutes had something of a told-you-so' "If we wouldn't have done named the tournament's MVP. both Oscar Robertson and Monday night, including 10-smile, having felt overlooked all this, they would have said, At 23-7, the Gaels have pro­Hersey Hawkins -and finishes straight to provide a comfort weekend while Hofstra and 'Yeah, they were a great team, duced their most victories in a with 3,058 career points to zone, and the Seahawks beat George Mason's NCAA hopes but they couldn't win a champi­season since winning 27 in rank sixth on the NCAA scoring Hofstra 78-67 to win their were dissected. onship," forward Beckham 1997-98, a year before coach list. fourth Colonial Athletic Both are ahead of the Myrick said. Jeff Ruland took over. Burtt, Clark and Burtt were the con­Association championship in Seahawks in the Ratings who has 2,011 career points, ference's two most prolific seven years. Percentage Index, but the lona 80, St. Peter's 61 became only the second Iona guards this season and also 
"I kind of had to mak~ plays," Seahawks and Patriots shared Steve Burtt scored 28 points, player to reach the 2,000-point happened to be teammates at the junior guard said. "That's the regular season title, and leading lona over St. Peter's in plateau. The other was his New York City's Rice High my job here. That's what coach Wilmington was the top seed. the Metro Atlantic Athletic father Steve Burtt Sr., who School. puts me out there to do. (My "We had a little chip on our Conference championship game scored 2,534 in the early 1980s. Haul Orta added 13 points for teammates) stepped up for me shoulder all weekend," coach Monday night and clinching the For St. Peter's, Keydren St. Peter's, which dropped to 2­for 37 minutes. grinding it out, Brad Brownell said. "Very few Gaels' eighth NCAA tournament Clark's magnificent tournament 4 in MAAC championship playing tough defense, people were talking about us, berth. run ended with the senior games -it's last win coming in rebounding the ball and making so we felt ·like we had to play Ricky Soliver shook off early guard scoring 25 points to lead 1995. 

_0 
p 
E 
R 
~ 
N 
0 
T 
R 
E 
D 
~

-
lVI E 
TICKETS AT 
LAFORTUNE 
BOX OFFICE 
CALL

FJ fli OUT ON APRIL 7 AND 8 iN WASHINGTON HALL! 
631·8128

:1l •.,, .• , 
~-­
~ ',-,{1"!~"~ ·.·::~/.:o·:::;·~.~~·. •' 
' ~ ~-­
. '• 

L _:._<~ ­
Tuesday, March 7, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Quinn 
continued from page 20 
points in a double-overtime road loss to Pittsburgh .Jan. 4. 
"IThn recognition isl very wnll dns1~rwd," Irish mach Mikn Brny said in a tolnmnli~rm1cn Monday morning. "I I'm I really happy for 
l<)uinnl. lin's hnen such a kny for us. I don't think the coachns in this lnagun ... arn rnally shor.kml." 
()uinn joins llouby. Foyn. Villanova guard Allan Hay, Cincinnati for­ward Eric 
"/Chris Quinn 'sf been such a key for us. I don't think the coaches in this league ... are really shocked." 
Mike Brey 

I licks, Comwctieut forward Hudy (;ay, Marq unttn forward Stfwn Novak, Pittsburgh lilrward Aaron Gray, Syracuse guard Gerry McNamara. Wnst Virginia for­ward Kevin PitL•mogln and guard Mikn (;ansny as thn II play­
nrs named to we've had to
"It's a tremendous honor 

the first team. battle back
for me to be mentioned

Gay, Foye, and get ready Hay and Novak with the great players of for the next wnro all unani­game. So
the year and the great 

mous picks, being resilient 
players ofthe past."

chosnn by all is very impor­nligibln Big tant for our East coachns. Chris Quinn group." Coadws wnre Quinn was
Irish point guard 

not allowed to selnd playnrs from thnir own tnarns. 
Brny informed Quinn Monday morning he was solectnd to the all-mnfnrnnce tnam. Quinn said he dons not think about personal statisties but acknowlndgnd the IIHlf.,'llitudn ol' thn snlnction. 
"It's rna! mol, it's a trnmendous honor for rnn to bn mentionnd with the great players of this year and thn great playnrs of the past," Quinn said. 
<)uinn joins an elite levnl of Notn~ Dame players to earn this honor sincn the Irish joinnd the Big East in 1995. Before Quinn and Carroll, forward Ryan Humphreys was selected in 2002, forward Troy Murphy earned thn award in 2001, 2000 and 1999 and so did forward Pat Garrity in 1997 and 1996. 
Quinn lnd Notre Dame to a 15­12 overall record and a 6-10 mark in the Big East this season. 
The Irish strug­gled out of the gate. falling to 1-8 in their first nine league games. But Quinn helped Notre Dame turn around its season, as the Irish went 5-2 in their last seven games ­
earning the final Big East tourna­ment seed. 
"A lot of teams might have faded away," Quinn said. "Over the season, there have been tough times when we've really been down as a group, but 
eareful not to 
let Monday's announeement distraet him from his primary f'oeus. Notre Dame is playing Georgetown in the No. 5­seed vs. No. 12-seed match up at Madison Square Garden in New York City at 2 p.m. Wednesday. 
"They're a great team and they've had a heek of a year," Quinn said of' Georgetown. "Wednesday's all about our team and [our I playing well." 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 

NCAA MEN's BASKETBALL 
Zags hold off Lions' upset bid 
Gonzaga beats Loyola Marymount, 68-67, for wee ehanzpionship 
Associated Press 

SPOKANE, Wash. -J.P. Batista's tip-in gave No. 4 Gonzaga the lead late and Loyola Marymount's Chris Ayer missed a layup at the buzzer to give the Bulldogs a 68-67 on Monday night in the West Coast Confernnce tourna­ment final. 
The Zags (27-3) earned their eighth-eonsecutive trip to the NCAA tournament, but they would have made it oven had they lost. Loyola Marymount (12-18) was trying to win their way in and had a great ehance to pull the upset. 
Trailing by one, the Lions inbounded the ball with 10.6 seconds left and the Gonzaga defense bottled up Brandon Worthy in the corner. lie found Ayer's underneath, but he rushed the shot and missed badly. 
Despite poor shooting, Gonzaga won the WCC tourna­ment for the third straight time and seventh of the past eight. But it was the lirst time the event was held in Spokane. 
Adam Morrison led all seor­ers with 23 points, but made only six of 18 field goals. Batista, playing with an injured leg, added 13 points and 1 0 rebounds. 
Loyola Marymount was play­ing in the wee title game for the lirst time in 17 years. They won in 1988 and 1989, behind Hank Gathers and Bo Kimble. It was in the semifinals of the league tournament in 1990 that Gathers collapsed on the court and died. 
Gonzaga has won 18 games in a row, tied with George Washington for longest streak in the nation. Gonzaga has also won 40 straight home games, easily the longest streak in the nation, and they are 28-0 in the 2-year-old McCarthey Athletic Center 

Loyola Marymount led by eight at halftime, and went on a 12-2 run to take a 48-33 lead with 13:36 left on Worthy's steal and layup and 

Wes Wardrop's jumper. 
Gonzaga replied with a 16-2 run and Morrison's layup, his first basket of the sceond half, cut Loyola's lead to 50-49 with 
7:37 left. David Pendergraft's two fren throws tied the game at 53. 
John Haywood's long jumper, Loyola's first field goal in seven minutes, gave the Lions a 55-53 lead with 6:38 left. 
CLUB SPORTS 
Squash standout Zhang loses twice in Amherst 
Cycling travels to Ohio State; sailing finishes 10th in Florida; women's ultimate earns three wins in West Lafayette 
Special lo the Observer 
.lames Zhang, the first Notre Dame player to qualify for the national singles championships, dropped two matches this weekend at the championships in Amherst, Mass. 
Thn two losses wnre the l'irst for Zhang, as he com­pleted his season record at 13-2 and led the Irish to their first national team championship in their divi­sion two weeks ago. 
Zhang droppnd his opening round match to Trnvor Hoes of Yaln, 3-0, and thnn lost his consolation match to Northwestern's Ed Gadient, :{-0. 
Zhang will rnturn rwxt year to lead the Irish in team compntition and attempt to qualify again l'or the nation­als. 
Cycling 
SPven cyclists representnd NotrP llanw at the Ohio Statn Invitational Hoad Haee and Critnrium this wer>knnd. 
ThP tnarn mnmhers wnr~~ Mik1~ l.avnry, (;Pol'!' Cisl1n·. Matt l'rygoski, Tim Camptwll. Andy Sl.nvns, Mnghan .Johnson and Ty BakPr. 
Saturday's Hoad Haec -a hilly 20-mile loop through Zaleski State Forest ­slowed all but the strongest riders in the race. Steves and Baker, racing in the Mens C category, completed one lap of the course and finished 23rd and 34th, respectively, in a field of 84 riders. 
The rest of the men raced in the B category, completing two loops of the course. 
In a !'ield of 81 riders, Lavery placed 15th. Prygoski 17th and Campbell 29th. Geoff Gisler finished No. 52 al'ter getting knocked ofT his bike by a reckless rider about 35 miles into the race. 
lie suffered only minor scrapes and bruises, but a eraeked helmet prevented him from racing in the Criterium on Sunday. 
Mnghan Johnson placed 32nd among 47 riders in thn Women's Brace. 
Sunday's Criterium was a half-mile squarn loop in Dublin, Ohio. Once again. Steves and Baker raeed in the Men's C Division. 
The main finld broke apart quirk I y a 1'1.111" about h a If oI' tltP riders wnrP caught behind an narly erash. Both Stnvos and Baker were c a ugh t in t lw b a e k h a If of 

riders and were eventually pulled from the race. 
A similar fate struek Johnson in the Women's B race as well. 
Sixty racers entered the Men's 8 race, including Lavery, Prygoski and Campbell. 
The leaders maintained a fast pace of 25 miles per hour for the 45-minute race on the tight track. 
Although final results are not yet posted, it is believed Lavery and Prygoski are among the top-20 and Campbell among the top-30. 
Salllng 

Six members of the Irish squad headed south this weekend for a break from the snow to sail in the Eckerd Invitational hosted by Eckerd College in St. Petersburg, Fla. Twelve teams from five districts competed in the regatta, whore the Irish took 1Oth. 
Winds built steadily from five to 15 knots for Saturday's 18 races, and sophomon~s .John Dailey and Caroline Nally began the regatta with a strong prPs­PIH'.e, taking eighth in tlwir s1~cond race in tlw A division. 
Sophomore Chris May and 
junior Amy Becker followed with a fifth-place finish in their second race in tho B division. 
Conditions on Sunday began with winds around twelve knots, which slowly lightened as the last six raees of the regatta were completed. But the dying winds did not hurt the Irish performance. Sophomore Tim Hoy and junior Kathryn Hoodecheck finished third in the last two raees to close out the team's events 
Notre Dame finished ahead of follow MCSA representa­tive Ohio University and close behind Miami (Ohio). 
Ultimate 
The women's squad trav­eled to West Lafayette, Ind. Sunday to face sectional rivals Purdue, Indiana and Northwestern. 
The Irish took control of the tournament and posted strong wins against all thrne teams. 
Although snow started just about the time as the games, all the teams toughed out the cold and playnd hard. 
After trading points with Northwestern, Noire Damn took a two-point load into half'. 

Notre Dame kept up the intensity at the start of the next half and won the game 8-6. Junior Jeannie Joekel played stellar defense and made numerous leaping deflections. 
The seeond game pitted the women against Indiana. a team looking for revenge after losing to the Irish at the Mardi Gras tournament the past weekend in Baton Houge. 
The Irish were unfazed and kept the dise moving on offense. The 9-3 Irish victory featured a sensational layout bid for a score from sopho­more Libby Whiting. 
The final gamn was against nationally-ranked Purdue. 
Notre Dame took a quick lead 3-1 and held on for the rnmainder of the gamn, win­ning 8-3. · 
Senior Chrissy Hedges madn some hot. forohand passes to tho end zone, eon­neeting with fnllow senior Chris DuiH~ and sophomore Loretta Brown for seores. 
Senior Kasey Farrell's key ddensive stops and lay out for a seorn highlightnd tho contnst. 
T l11~ Ir i s h wi II t r a v e I t o Atlanta. rwxt WPnknnd to play in the CollegP T1~rminus . 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 7, 2006 
Indiana 
continued from page 20 
against the Big Ten this season, with its lone defeat coming to perennial powerhouse Illinois. Indiana is 5-5, with an 0-2 con­ference record. 
"We know them," Bayliss said. "We anticipate another close match, a competitiVe match, which it usually is in this series." 
The match will be in stark cli­mate contrast to Notre Dame's last competition. 
Bayliss sent the team to the La Jolla Beach and Tennis Club in La Jolla, Calif., this weekend to compete in the Pacific Coast Doubles Tournament, an open event that draws professional and collegiate players. 
Although no teams managed to advance past the third round of the 128-team draw, Bayliss was pleased with their perform­ance, which will not count for players' collegiate records. 
"Our top 3 teams all made it into the round of 32 but all of them lost in that round, and a couple of them had really close matches," Bayliss said. 
Ryan Keekley and Barry King, who are ranked No. 51 in the national standings, earned a first-round bye in the tourna­ment and beat a team from San Diego State before losing 3-6, 6­3, 7-6 (7-4) in a tiebreaker. 
"We had good matches, got exposed to a lot of good tennis, got to practice with some guys from other teams as well," Bayliss said. 
Sheeva Parbhu and Brett Helgeson also had a first-round bye and highlighted the second round with a win over USC. They also lost a three-set match in the third round, with a score of6-7, 6-4,7-5. 
Eric Langenkamp and Andrew Roth also lost in the third round to Stanford. 
Stephen Bass and Santiago Montoya lost in the second round, as did Patrick Buchanan, who played with former Hoosier player Scott Lippitt. 
"It was a really good experi­ence for us," Bayliss said. "The La IIoya Beach and Tennis Club is a terrific place to host an event -it's right on the Pacific Ocean. The courts are in great shape. The competition was great. It was everything we wanted it to be." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

Face off 
continued from page 20 
But that's not to say Clagett's only talent is win­ning face-offs -he can play defense, too. Corrigan is confident in the sophomore's abilities at midfield but mindful of his specific duties -especially after reserve face-off man senior Steve Panos was unavailable for last Saturday's 9-6 loss to Cornell due to injury. 
"lie's a 
one assist, he scored two .goals, the second in a 14-13 
overtime triumph  over  Air  
Force.  
The  lack  of  a  title  for  

Clagett's face-off role is rep­resentative of the blue collar, lunch-pail attitude required for the position, Corrigan said. 
"Every good face-off guy is very tough," the coach said. "It's a position where you get bounced around and hit, and you've got to concentrate on getting the ball." 
Toughness wasn't exactly what 
good defen­"! watch film to see my drew Clagett 
sive play-to the posi­
opponent to see what move
e r , " tion. Corrigan they're doing, to see what I Before 
said of can do to counter." going on to Panos, the captain ath­I r i s h ' s letic power­
Taylor Clagett 

groundball h o u s e leader (64) Irish midfielder DeMatha 
for 2005. "But we don't want to wear him out playing too much defense." 
Opponents can not over­look Clagett's offensive abili­ties, as well. 
Last season, in addition to 
Catholic High School in Maryland 
to a national lacrosse rank­ing, Clagett was just a soph­omore high school lacrosse player looking for a way out of grueling drills. 
"[My high school] coach 
said that everyone who wanted to try facing-off did­n't have to do sprints," Clagett said. 
Turns out he was just the tough guy his coach was looking for. 
"I guess it kind of worked out for me," Clagett said. 
Now that he's at Notre Dame, though, the break from workouts is over. 
"J run with the rest of the team and do all the same lifts," he said. "I also do a lot of lift curls and forearm curls. You need strong fore­arms to face-off." 
And Corrigan and Clagett both believe the sophomore's diligence before the game separates him from his oppo­nents during the game. 
"I watch film to see my opponent to see what move they're doing, to see what I can do to counter," he said. "You've got to make sure you're familiar with the move, perfecting technique." 
That kind of work ethic 
makes Clagett  one  of the  
best  face-off  men  in  the  
country.  

Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
Recruit 
continued from page 20 
said. "Notre Dame is not only strong [in athletics], it's one of the best academic schooL<> in the coun­try." 
Mike Frank of lrishEyes.com, a Web site on the Scout.com recruit­ing network, said he felt Nagel's focus on grades as well as football likely helped him earn the schol­arship offer. 
"Any time you're going to have a guy that can get it done in the classroom, it makes him an attrac­tive target as well," Frank said. "I think it certainly helps giving him an offer to have such a great situ­ation academically -a guy who gets his work done." 
But Frank said the reason Weis offered Nagel a scholarship was 

likely his prowess on the field. "When it's all 
said and done, 
he still got the 
offer because 
he's a very, 
very good foot­
ball player," 
Frank said. 
"He's a guy that 
flies to the foot-Nagel 
ball, likes to hit people and is a 
real aggressive player. He has 

scout.com 

very, very good speed. He makes his turn well left and right. He has very good lateral movement. That will make him a very good line­backer." 
Nagel said Weis complimented his speed and ability to hit when the two met this Saturday. 
"He's just going to get bigger [and] stronger," Frank said of Nagel. "He's a guy that can run with a lot of players. He's a guy who definitely is going to increase your athletic ability and speed at the linebacker position." 
Nagel received offers from 11 other schools, including Purdue, Boston College, Michigan State and Stanford. 
''I've been to Notre Dame about five times," he said. "I love the campus, the atmosphere ... every­thing." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1@nd.edu 

Go Online to www.nd.edu/"'bkstr and follow the simple instructions to register your team today! 
Registration has opened f'or the 2006 Edition of' the Bookstore Basketba I I Tournatnent!!! 
Be a part of the World's Largest 5-on-5 Outdoor Basketball Tournament! All skill levels and intensity levels are encouraged and invited to join in this great Notre Dame community tradition! 
**Registration ends 11:59 PM on March 19th** 

Tuesday, March 7, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY • page 19 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 

.. 
THYAS 
± 
C2005 Tribune Media SeNices, Inc. All Rights AesEti'Ved. 
LEBIE 
I 
[ J lu 
WHAT THE: KING
tGRONTS 
-.,.
E:X'PE:RIE:NCE:D 
WHE:N HE: WAS
IJ I b

www.jumble.com AWAKE:NE:D BY THE: PROTE:STf:RS. EURUFT 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.
[XJ b 

A: A( I I I I JoF 'liI I IIJ' ­
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: SCARY BRINY PAUPER THRASH
Saturday's 

Answer: When the robber was caught on the steps, the cops said it was-A STAIR "CASE" 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
ACROSS 34 Mustard city 67 Compos mentis 1 It may be played 37 Sleigh pullers 68 StruGk forcefully in elevators 38 10 C-notes 69 Kind of vision 6MGM 39 Anthem with 70 Spotted co-founder both English 71 San Rafael's 
1 o Soldier who's and French county nowhere to be lyrics found 41 Preordain 
DOWN 14 Entree served 43 Manage without 
1 Not the most 

with a ladle assistance 
rewarding work 15 Pro's opposite 44 Jacob's twin 
2 Communications 16 Waiter's offering 46 Hosiery brand officer on "Star 17 Psychologist 47 Psychologist's Trek" sweethearts? fast-food order? 3 Sharply piquant 19 Sea dog 50 Grope 4 Pond organism 20 These can be 51 Actor Stephen 5 Glazier's oven vital 52 "Now I see!" 6WC. 21 "__ Angel" 55 __, amas, 7 Erstwhile (1960#1 hit) 
amat ... 8 "To be," in Tours 23 Deli loaf 57 The Tower of 9 Smart aleck 24 Manila London was one 
10 Wake-up times, 25 Ring of 59 "Laughing" for short 
frangipani animals 11 Gets tiresome blossoms 62 Atticful 
12 Sole 27 Lender terms: 64 What a 
13 AccompanimentAbbr. psychologist 
for a madrigal 

29 How a does at midnight 
18 1952 Olympics psychologist in a motel pool? site 40 Far from elite 52 Choice words 58 "Fine by me" might start over? 66 Helper 

22 "Morning 42 H. Rider 53 Half of 

60 Polite responseEdition" airer Haggard novel Hispaniola from a ranchANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 26 Punctuation 45 American or 54 Poplar tree hand ~-:-r..,.,~ used for stress 
Swiss 

55 "Cleans like a 61 Humorist..:::+7+.:+.:"1 28 Wicker material 
48 M.D., e.g. white tornado" Bombeck
-=+=+:-,..+.-,.t 29 Melted-cheese 
brand
dish 49 E. J. _Jr., 

63 Critical 
30 Genetic strand longtime writer 56 1960's TV's for The New "The Ghost and 65 Composer
31 Win over Yorker Mrs. " Rorem

32 New Year's Eve party hat, essentially 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 33 Shades credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 34 Remove, as a Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday hat crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 35 Cake decorator Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
-=+-=+=+-:+:--i 36 Best-selling past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). "Workout" video Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young maker solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
• found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEHRITIF:S HORN ON TillS I>A Y: Eli Marienthal, 20; Shaquille O'Neal, 34; D.I.. Hughley, 43; Roh Reiner, 59 
Happy Hirthday: Don't sit there wasting a lithe wonderful things available to you --put the melancholy attitude to rest. Motivation is all it will take to make your lite better. A good heart and a smile on your face will go a long way. Your numbers are 8, II, 15, 26, 34, 39 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You can make things happen if you take control and organize everyone around you. Make some changes that will help you out financially. Get serious about who you want in your life and who is just wasting your time. •••• TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You can go lor interviews, talk to superiors about advancement or talk your way into a completely new position at work. An opportunity is likely to come through an old associate or someone you have met through a group you once belonged to. ••• GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20): You may he a little confused ahoul what you should do next--torn between taking on something new and perhaps learning a new skill. Both will he to your henctit and you will realize that you arc quite capable of doing both. ••• CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): There is not enough inl(mnation being handed down to enable you to make a decision. Clive yourself time to think and l(ll' circumstances to unfold a lillie further belorc you proceed. Focus on love instead and enjoy yourself for a change. ••• LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Consider three areas ofyour lite that arc in need of change and do something about it. Your philosophic beliefs are expanding and this will bring you greater freedom. A financial plan can he put into play. Don't bend to personal pressure. ** • * VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Not everything will uni(Jid the way you want. Someone you thought you could trust will mislead you. Get to the bottom of things by tL~king questions. If the person you arc talking to becomes nervous, mllVe on. •• LIHRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will he willing to try new things. Your ability to contribute to whatever you get involved in will lead to greater respect and leadership. Taking on an unusual project will open up your mind to a bost of new and unique individuals. ••••• SCORI'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Engage in things that include people you lind motivating, creative and easy to work with. Utilize your tal<.:nts and you will end up linding your way through any confusion you have about your future. ••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-ncc. 21): You may feel like everyone is out to get you but that's not the case. People just don't want you to make a mistake you might regret later. Talk to a close friend or relative you trust. ••• CAPRICORN (nee. 22-Jan. 19): Your associates will treat you ditlcrently ifyou can step outside your rigid way of doing business. Show your ability to try new things. Innovation is what will sell your ideas. ••• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): A chance to move I(Jrward with someone you really care about is looking good. Don't push hut do put your oiTer out there. If you are kind, generous and patient, everything else will fall into place. ••••• PISCES (Fch. 19-March 20): You may he fooling yourself hut you aren't I(Joling anyone else. 13e honest with yourself if you want things to work in your favor. Money matters can be resolved if you are willing to move on and do something that really counts. •• 
Birthday Baby: You are a dreamer with lots of innovative ideas. You arc capable of great things and intent on following your own path. You act quickly and tend to change direction midstream. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor jim, er~genialast.comji>r crmjiJential cmLHtltatirms 
JOCKULAR 
CROISSANTWORLD 
KNOW MON't'., 'iOI..l \::.NO'V\1 Wr\Ai 
I L-E..A'RNE.D? 1'\/E. LE.A RN E.D liS 
NoT THE. SI'2E. o'F 
1"HE. 'BUI\..D INC:.! NAME.D Af\E.R 
';ou r1'5 WHA\S.. 

ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS 
SA'j, \-\OW'D ~ou C:lE."T MoNE."/ To :t>O \HIS? 
DININt:f H~L..-1..-S FUNt>INl:T, 'E:>UI l Dl D SOl"\E. !>P..MA<::JE.. 
<..oi-.l\Ro\.... 

.f'.)" HE."\ "'-\t>S! 1-\0\N MAN"! WA'{S CA'N .1: 'iOU £...p._·r ~I.O..ToE.S ?? n PorA'ToE.SS$ .rr 
..---------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, March 7, 2006 
page 20 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Chicago-area recruit gives Notre Dame verbal commitment 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame landed its second verbal commitment for the class of 2011 Saturday when Chicago-area recruit Aaron Nagel (Lemont, Ill.) accepted a scholarship offer from head eoach Charlie Weis to play outside linebacker. 
"It's always been my dream since I was a little kid to go to Notre Dame," Nagel said in a tele­phone interview with The Observer Monday. "I was hoping for [the offer]. but I wasn't expect­ing it." 
Nagel said he came to Notre Dame this weekend to meet with Weis and discuss his chances of getting a scholarship offer from the Irish. 

"[Assistant! Coach [Rob] Ianello, who is the recruiting coordinator for my area, told me Coach Weis wanted to sit down with me and get to know me," Nagel said. "He said I probably wouldn't get an offer until I attended a camp there. When he offered me, I was so excited." 
Nagel has lined up at running back, wide receiver, linebacker and safety for Lemont High School, much in the mold of cur­rent Notre Dame free safety Tom Zbikowski, who played quarter­back in high school and was recruited as an "athlete." 
This past season, the 6-foot-1, 215-pound junior ran for 1,305 yards and 20 touchdowns at run­ning back and made 55 solo tack-
MEN'S TENNIS 

-
Battle in Bloomington 
Irish seek seventh straight win over rival Hoosiers 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
Aftnr a weekend sojourn playing in the California sunshine, the Irish return to indoor courts in Bloomington at 2 p.m. today. 
Notre Dame enters the eontest riding a six-match winning streak against in­state rival Indiana. 
"The challenge there, in addition to the IU team. is that their courts are a lot faster than ours, and the lighting ic; con­siderably more dim," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said Monday. "It's been a chal­lenging place for us to play ... Hopefully ,we'll make that adjustment and be ready to go." 
The two teams will meet for the 18th consecutive season. The Irish won 5-2 last season in what Bayliss called "a fair­ly close match." 
The Irish also have faced a number of Hoosier players in tournaments throughout thn fall and in previous yP-ars. 
Notre Dame is 8-4 overall and 6-1 
see INDIANA/page 18 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Quinn selected to All-Big East first teatn 
(21.0). Quinn also averaged 6.3 
assists in 16 league games (6.2 
overall). 
"It's just a great honor to be 
on the first team, to be men­
tioned with the best in our 
league," Quinn said in a press 
conference at the Joyce Center 
Monday. "Especially knowing 
that the eoaehes vote on that, 
it's a great honor to know they 
think highly of me." 
The 6-foot-2, 185-pound guard scored in double figures 25 times this season and scored 30 points or more four times. .He scored a season-high 37 
see QUINN/page 17 


By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Edi ror 
Notre Dame point guard Chris Quinn was selected to the All­Big East first team Monday, becoming the first Irish player to receive the honor since guard Matt Carroll -now with the NBA's Charlotte Bobcats -in 2003. 
Quinn averaged 20.2 points per game during the Big East regular season (18.2 overall), the third highest average in the league behind Rutgers guard Quincy Douby (27.0) and Villanova guard Randy Foye 
les and four interceptions on defensB. 
He also runs the 40-yard dash in 
4.5 seconds and ranlcs third in his class of 340 students with a 4.4 grade-point average on a weight­ed 4.0 scale. 
"I wanted to go to a school that was strong on academics," Nagel 
see RECRUIT/page 18 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
Sophomore succeeds in 
utility role 
ND relies on Clagett for face-offs this year 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Wri rer 
Notre Dame has one of the best and most u nderratnd talents in the country-due more to the position than the man who occupies it. 
As a freshman last season, Notre Dame's 'Faylor Clagett was the sixth best face-off man in Division I lacrosse, winning .612 percent of the face-off's he took. 
"After every goal and at the beginning of every quar­ter, there is a possession up for grabs," Corrigan said Monday. "If you ean domi­nate the face-off, you can dominate the possessions.... It's an uphill battle when you're not getting face-of'fs." 
But face-off men, who eon­tribute a crucial role to their team's momentum, ironically receive fewer playing time when they win a drop. 
"If I win, I'll be in for about 30 seconds on offense," Clagett said Monday. "If I lose, I stay in on defense for maybe five minutes." 
The Irish roster Usts Clagett as a midfielder ­the position his older broth­er Steve played for Notre Dame from 2001-04. lie mainly takes face-off's and hops off the field shortly thereafter if he wins, though, in favor of an of'fen­sive midfielder. 
"We recruited Taylor as a face-off guy," Corrigan said. "We got very lucky with him. lie's going to be terrific." 
see FACE OFF/page 18 

ClUB SPORTS CLUB SPORTS
CLUB SPORTS CLUB SPORTS 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
NCAA BASKETBALL
en .....
1--Co) 
Gonzaga 68 
UNC.Wilmington 78 
Squash standout Seven cyclists compet-

The Irish sailers com-The women's ultimate 
Loyola 
Hofstra 67 
James Zhang lost two ed in the Ohio State 

peted off the coast of team earned wins over 
Marymount 67 
The victory gave the •

a: ::5z 

Florida, taking lOth at Purdue, Indiana, and 
c:s matches at the national Invitational Road Race 

The Zags took the 
Seahawks their fourth 

the Eckerd Invitational Northwestern in West
singles championships last weekend. 

wee championship 
eAA title in the last
cc 
last weekend. 

last weekend. Lafayette, Ind Sunday. 
with the win. 
seven years. 

page 17 
page 16
=c page 17 page 17 

page 17 · page 17 
c: 




