
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Editor 
Emergency crews were dis­patched to South Dining Hall in the early hours of Saturday morning after flames and smoke were reported to be coming out of the chimney con­nected to Reekers, the 24-hour eatery attached to the back of the building. 
There were no injuries, and the building sustained minimal damage, Notre Dame Fire Department (NDFD) Captain 
Tim  Hoeppner said  on  the  
scene Saturday.  
Hoeppner  said  NDFD  

received a call from concerned Reekers staff between 3 a.m. and 3:15 Saturday, and sent a unit to investigate claims of "flames coming from the roof." 
Reekers heats up early Saturday 
Hoeppner said the building's fire alarm was tripped soon thereafter, when firefighters were already responding to the situation. 
Once NDFD confirmed the fire, it called in the South Bend _ Fire Department (SBFD) for additional support, Hoeppner said. According to Hoeppner, SBFD came with three fire engines -including two ladder trucks -·an ambulance, a fire chief and a safety officer. One ladder truck was used to approach the fire from the out­side, Hoeppner said, while two crews approached the situation from inside the building. 
Notre Dame Security/Police officers were also on the scene, and the presence of a unit from the South Bend Police 
see FIRE/page 3 

Architecture students learn frotn devastation 
By PETER NINNEMAN News Writer 
Eleven Notre Dame fourth­year design studio students truly received a hands-on edu­cation in January when they traveled with architecture professors Philip Bess and AI DflFrees to the Mississippi towns of Biloxi and [)'Jberville. 
Bess. director of the Notre Dame graduate program in architecture, said the Congress for New Urbanism in Mississippi, a non-profit organization based in Chicago, met in October of last year and produced "master plans" for rebuilding 11 towns along the Mississippi coast ravaged by Hurricane Katrina. 
He and his students worked at sitfls in two of those-11 towns. 
"We took those master plans that were produced in four or five days and made proposals for buildings on those sites in accordance with the master plans," Bess said. "We fleshed them out." 
Bess said he believes the trip was important for the stu­dents for two reasons -the did receive not only valuable real world experience, but were also able to see the human value of their work. 
"I think it was a good expe­rience for the students to go work in the context of a real site, particularly one in which there's so much devastation, and they realized that what they do is so important to peo­ple," Bess said. "We were treated with great hospitality. Everyone was very grateful for our efforts ... and I think 
see PROJECT/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Student's condition 
•


Itnproves 

Eric Morin begins to recover from fall 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 

One week after suffering a serious fall in Naples, Italy, Notre Dame junior Eric Morin's condition has improved, University spokesman Dennis Brown said Sunday. 
Morin suffered a fractured skull and bleeding in the brain March 19 after a "seri­ous accident" while studying architecture sites in Naples as part of a multiple-city class trip through the School of Architecture Rome Studies Program. 
"Eric's condition has signif­icantly improved, and, while he no longer is in intensive care, his condition is seri­ous," Brown said in an e­mail. He declined to provide information on the extent of Morin's lllJ uries or the specifics of the accident that caused them. 
Morin remained hospital­ized in Naples Sunday. His parents flew to Naples last Monday from their hometown of Edina, Minn. to be with him. 
"His family is-grateful for the assistance and prayers offered on his behalf," Brown said. "They particularly appreciate the assistance offered by [architecture pro­fessor and director of the Rome Studies Program] Samir Younes." 
Junior Cailin Shannon, who 
see MORIN/page 4 

Weekend attracts top prospects 
Talented applicants enjoy campus life prior to committing to ND 
By KAITLYNN RIELY News Writer 
With other top schools like Princeton, Harvard and Yale knocking down talented high school seniors' doors, Notre Dame Admissions officers, professors and even current students spent the past week­end encouraging 85 of the most accomplished of the admitted students of the class 
of 2010  to  commit  to  the  
University.  
The  goal  of  the  Reilly  

Visitation Weekend is to bring the premier students of the early action acceptance 
see REILLY/page 8 



Dreams really do cotne true for ND students 
By JOE PIARULLI News Writer 

If you attend Notre Dame, now might be a good time to call your parents and tell them to pinch themselves. 
According to a recent nationwide survey conduct­ed by The Princeton Review entitled "Hopes and Worries," parents of college applicants ranked Notre Dame fourth among "dream colleges" they would want their children to attend, placing the University behind Princeton, Stanford and Harvard. 
The ranking is the highest 
Notre Dame has received since the survey first began in 2003. In all previous years, the University ranked eighth -though 2005 was the first year the survey separated parents' dream schools from those of their children. 
Notre Dame did not rank in the top 10 for the 3,890 high school students sur­veyed. The No. 1 college named by students was New York University. 
According to Director of Admissions Daniel Saracino, the positive results for the University are far from 
see DREAMS/page 6 
Monday, March 27, 2006 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

NCAA Men of Genius 
I~L'il Thursday night's round of Swent 16 ganws ww; just ridiculous. Botwoon Duke fi>rgolt.ing to box out, Toxm;' prayer being answomd and Adam Morrison flat out losing it aflnr (;onzaga's heartbreak­ing dofi~al, LlwrP ww; 
Greg
pl1mly to km~p viPwers 

Arbogast
onlerlained. 
Yet, th1wn W<L'i 

something ollwr than Sports Writer 
all tho dramatics that 

stw:k in my mind. All-Pr Kenton Paulino 
sank his buzzer b1mlPr that put 'lhxa'i 
Llmmgh to Llw Elito X, tlw obligatory piln­
on ensued. 

Tlw funny thing, tliOugh, wa'i tho first 
p1~rson to mach that piln-on. It wwm't A.J. 
Abrams. who had pw;s1~d tho ball to 
Paulino right bnfim~ his shot. It wwm't 
I~tMan:us Aldrige, who had carried Toxa'i 
with 2(, point'>. In fiut, it W<L'>n't ovon a 
player who W<L'i on-the court at Llw time. 
Tlw first porson to mach Llw Paulino W<L'i sonw skinny sub-six-fiJOt white kid still woaring his warm-ups. Why in tho world W<L'i he that oxdtod? It WIL'i obvious he hadn't played a single minutn all game. I'll ovon go out on a limb and say he made no mntribution whal'>olwor to Toxa'i' win owr West Viq . .,rinia. Yot there he W<L'i, cele­brating liko this W<L'i the defining moment or his (:arm~r. 
Tlw morn I tlwught about it. though. tho morP I rnaliz1~d Llmt the behavior of' "Mr. Anonymous Tox<ts player" W<L'in't roally that uncommon. We soe bnnch­warnwrs make fi1ols orthmnsnlvos all the limo in tlw NCAA tournament. 
Whon Lim game is on the linn, ho's tho guy on tlw berwh who looks morn nerv­ous than tho h'llY standing at the froo throw linn. During a timoout, ho's always tho first guy ofl' tlw IJI'nch rushing to high five and m-hydralo thPir tn<unmatos. And you can lake it to the bank that whm1 a game winning shot L'i mado, lw will bo the guy who complPlely loses it during tho celebration. 
Is itjustnw or an~ Llwso h'llYS straight out ofa Hoal Mnn of' Gonius comrnorcial? Wait just one second! That's it. llow have those marketing geniuses at Bud Ught not como up with tl1is id1~a yet'? Well then. I guns.'i I'll have to go ahead and do it for them. Call it my ode to th1~ benchwarmor. 
Bud light prnsont'i Hoa.l Men of'(rimius 
meal Men ofGeniu ..<;J 

'll1day we salute you, Mr. NCAA Toum­amnnt lknchwarmer Guy. 
(Mr. NC1A 7bumament !Jenchwarmer Guy) 
5'11," 165 pounds, <llld without a spnek or blL'iknthall ability. You Gllll't dunk, but what you lack in atl1letidsm. you make up fi1r with something no eoaeh ean tnaeh ... enthusi<L'im. 
(()h w~ah!J 

You spnnd the entire game in your warm-ups. Why? Because you know you haw~ about a'> much eh<Ulen of playing as that tuba playPr in tlw fiflh row. 
(/Jlow on that tuba} 

But do you let that stop you from mak­ing an idiot of' yoursnlf on the end of the bnneh'! No. sir. And when your tmun scores Llmt b<L'iket to take tlwir erudal 8-6 lead. you'll bn there. 
(/1wt :., a two-point lead) 
So craek open an iee-eold Bud light, 0 pioneer of the pin1~. Beeause this time, we'll bn the ones ehenring fi1r you. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at 
garbogas@nd. edu 

The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 
CORRECTIONS 
Du~ w an lxliwrial error, Saint Mary's College l'rl-sidem Carol Ann Mooney's name wa.~ misspelled in a pull qume in the the Mar<.:h 23 edition ofThe Observer. lJue to a reporting error, an article in the March 22 • edition ofThe Observer stated that one third ofACE acceptances were Notre Dame srudents. In fuct, Notre Dame students were one halfofall ACE acceptances. The Observer regrets the errors. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WAS NOTRE DAME YOUR DREAM SCHOOL? WHY OR WHY NOT? 







Erin O'Neill  Elizabeth Elliott  Ben Clarke  Mark Hinken  Alan Bauer  Victor Villarreal  
sophomore ryons  sophomore Welsh Family  sophomore O'Neill  freshman Alumni  sophomore Fisher  junior Fisher  
"With a name like Erin O'Neill. how could I not go  "It was, until I found out Ben Clarke was going here. "  "Yes, because Elizabeth Elliott wa.s coming here. "  "No, it's not,­because it's in South Bend."  "Yeah. If/ didn't come here, I'd be a failure to my  "/dream of getting out of here."  

somewhere Irish?" 

Drunks busted -in bars 
SAN ANTONIO -Texas ha'i bngun sending undercov­er agent<> into bars to arrest drinkers for being drunk, a spokeswoman for the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission said Wednesday. 
The first sting operation was condueted reeently in a Dallas suburb where agents infiltrated 36 bars and arrested 30 people for public intoxieation, said the com­mission's Carolyn Bock. 
Being in a bar does not exempt one from the state laws against public drunken­ness, Bock said. 
"We feel that the only way we're going to get at the 
TODAY 
0:: 


hibiting the practice, a state appeals court ruled. 
"Urination on or near a 
busy commercial street inter­
feres with the comfortable 
enjoyment of both life and 
property," Presiding Justice 
J. Anthony Kline wrote in an opinion that eoncluded public peeing qualified as "a public nuisance." 
"The sight and smell of urine are vile and offensive, 1Uld those who use the public streets 1Uld sidewalks eannot be freely subjected to such unpleasantness," Kline con­tinued. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
drunk driving problem and the problem of people hurt­ing eaeh other while drunk is by eraekdowns like this," she said. 
"There are a lot of danger­ous and stupid things people do when they're intoxieated, other than get behind the wheel of a ear," Beck said. "People walk out irlto traflic and get run over, people jump off of baleonies trying to reach a swimming pool and miss." 
Public urination ruled Illegal 
SAN FRANCISCO Emptying one's bladder in a public place is a crime, even ifthere is no specifie law pro-
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
LLI
:::c 
~ 
LLI 
==
..... 


~ 
<1: 
(.) 0 

HIGH 53 HIGH 27 HIGH 45 HIGH 53
...I LOW 35 LOW 16 LOW 35 LOW 30 
family." 
IN BRIEF 

Harvard University professor Laurel Thatcher Ulrich, tho PulitzPr Prizn-winning aull10r of "A Midwife's Taln," will be giving a lec­ture on why "Well-Behaved Women Seldom Make History" Wednesday at 4:30 p.m. a'i part of the Provost's Distinguished Womnn's Leeturn Series. 
lntnmationally acdaimnd eollage and montage artist Winston Smith will Ill~ Visiting Artist in thP Saint Mary's Art Dnpartmnnt Wndnesday through Friday. IIe will bn giving a public presentation of his works at 7 p.m. Wednesday in room 232 of' the Moreau Center 
for the Arts. 

O'Neill Hall will host the "O'Neill Spotlight" -a faceofT with MeGiinn -Thursday at X p.m. The event will f'eaturn singers, eomedians and dancers from O'Neill a'i well a'i karaokn <llld fh~o food. 
Saint Mary's seniors Emily Fannon, Sinnamon Wolfe, Amanda Caddy and Amber Painter will host a senior compre­hensive art gallery opening Friday from 5 p.m. to 7 in the Moreau Art Galleries in the Mornau Conlor fbr the Art<>. The event is free <llld the public is weleomo to attend. 
Famed Notre Dame head football eoach Lou Holtz will give a leeturn on "Catholicism and Competition" Friday from 7 p.m. to 8:30 in the Stepan Center. nw event is spon­sored by Student Government a'i part of tl1n Catholic Think Tank of America Lecture Series. Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and I loly Cross student'> must pmsm1t stud1mt ID at tho door for admittance. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an euent to obsnews@ndedu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 


HIGH 65 HIGH 42 LOW 40 LOW 30 
Atlanta 50 I 35 Boston 43 I 34 Chicago 391 27 Denver 47 I 21 Houston 63 I 36 Los Angeles 74 I 52 Minneapolis 35 I 24 New York 44 I 37 Philadelphia 50 I 34 Phoenix 84 I 55 Seattle 54 I 45 St. Louis 44 I 28 Tampa 68 I 55 Washington 49 I 38 
Monday, March 27, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Mcllduff, Siefert natne Wallach chief of staff 
By KELLY MEEHAN Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's student body presi­dent Susan Mcllduff and student body vice president Maggie Siefert have appointed College junior Kate Wallach to serve as the 
Board of......--------, 
Governance's (BOG) next chief of stair 
Wallach ­a nursing major from !Iinsdale, Ill. -is the third person to ful­

fill the newly Wallach created execu­tive position. The chief of staff serves as the executive assistant to the president and vice president, meets regularly with BOG com­missioners to maintain communi­cation and helps execute goals. 
Mcllduff said Wallach is "extremely qualified" for the role, eiting her previous contributions to student government as an example of the hard work and dedication she will bring to the position. 
"She best exemplifies a Saint Mary's woman through her partic­ipation in <Toss-country, BOG and student role in Student Nurses' Association," Mclldufl'said. "She is extremely qualified in all areas ­both academically and extracur­ricular-of Saint Mary's." 
Wallach previously servPd as the publicity chair of the sophomore class board, and most notably. as the newly creaood student services commissioner during her junior year. In this position she has worked to make several improve­ments to the campus's food servic­es and dining options. 
"I felt good placing Kate in this position because I have heard all the work she has done is above and beyond," Siefert said. "She is always trying to improve every­thing that needs to be improved when it comes to student servic­es." 
Wallach said she hopes to mir­ror the leadership of all past stu­dent leaders -not just those in the chief of staff position -to guide her in accomplishing goals. 
"I think in some ways [I am] cre­ating [my] own path, but also looking at the leadership exam­ples of everyone else," she said. 
According to Mcllduff, the chief of staff will no longer have to be a part of the Student Academic Council, allowing Wallach to have more time to dedicate to being the "commissioner's cheerleader." 
Wallach said she is anxiously anticipating taking over her new role·, a position she had her hopes set on achieving since her sopho­more year. 
"I love what I do," Wallach said. "I think that so many people have ideas but most aren't willing to step up and execute them, which is something I hope to help [BOG commissioners] do." 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Fire 
continued from page 1 

Department was reported, but unconfirmed. 
Hoeppner said initial assess­ments indicated the fire origi­nated in the chimney flue for Reekers' wood-burning oven used to make pizzas. It then spread to the ventilation equip­ment at the top of the chimney and remained confined in that area, he said. 
HoPppner said the fire .was possibly caused by a build-up of creasote in the chimney -a common problem with wood­burning ovens. NDFD will carry out an investigation into the exact cause of the fire, Hoeppner said. 
Hoeppner said Reekers had experienced a similar fire in the past, "at least a few years ago." 
Paula HobPrts, Reekers man­ager on-duty at the time, said she was made aware of the situ­ation by students who saw sparks coming from the chim­ney outside. 
"Inside fHeckers] there wasn't a sign that anything was wrong, it didn't smell like smoke," Roberts said. "But we went out­side to see, and sure enough, there were sparks and smoke. We do get that from time to time with the pizza oven, but this did seem [excessive]." 
Hoberts said there were seven employees and approximately 20 students in the eatery at the time. 
"The kids were so coopera­tive, everyone evacuated calmly. There was never any danger," she said. 
Roberts and several adult employees waited outside for just over an hour until they were allowed back in the build­ing. 
"It's pretty cold out here, but I don't want to go too far away from the register," Hoberts said at the time. "But these nice kids brought us jackets, so we're okay." 
Heckers reopened Saturday with a reduced menu. Damage costs are not yet available. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 



Pope-Davis appointed NCAA rep 
Special to The Observer 

Don B. Pope-Davis, associate vice president for graduate studies and professor of psy­chology at the University of Notre Dame, has been appoint­
ed chair of t h e UnivPrsity's Faculty Board on Athletics and its NCAA fac­ulty athlPtics representa­tive by Hev. 


John I. Pope-Davis Jenkins, C.S.C., Notre Dame's president. 
"As a member of both the Faculty Board on Athletics 
since 2002 and the Provost Advisory Council since 2004, Don has a distinct understand­ing of and appreciation for the blend of athletic and academic excellence that we seek at Notre Dame," Father Jenkins said. "I am pleased that he has accepted this appointment and look forward to the leadership he will bring in this area.'' 
Pope-Davis succeeds Fernand 
N. "Tex" Dutile, professor of law, who had served in both positions since 2000. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 2000, Pope-Davis studies in the areas of multicul­tural psychology, counseling and education. Specifically, he is interested in cultural and racial identity development, cultural competency training, development, and assessment. Other areas of research include multicultural supervision in professional psychology, devel­opment of multicultural meas­ures for assessing environ­ments and supervision, issues of mental health of people of color, and cross-cultural com­munications. 
Pope-Davis is the co-author of three books, "Multicultural Counseling Competencies: Assessment, Education, and Supervision," "The Intersections of Race, Class, and Gender in Multicultural Counseling," and, most recent­ly, "Handbook of Multicultural Competencies in Counseling and Psychology." 


l c ~.I o·v· o A·· w. lio· ··T· 11· ·E···· P<.l o···r·· R··'l E. o· A E
1
·· .IL ~~ •·.· ·· ··•·· ...·..•... ·• . ~·.I*''! i"" (' ;{1 ' ·• . ···•· . ' .·• .. " 
cor~,PUTER· STORE l~EA UP T•O BRU~G 
.. G···
.•.

'.ro·..• ~Jl G··.:. :R···.,. Ei: S···.. ···• A.<.· v····I•Pt.~ S.•. 0;: r~~~ T• Hlt~ K. D~ S
·~ .. it,, ,]1 ' . . ...· . . . 1\1 . ·.·. ·. ·. .~ .. ·.. ... . ... 
At~D PC ACCE·ssO,RJES 


Personal Purchases 
ii~t J?.h.tW!1iit £l' ft¥U! r;H(f'li 
http:/toiI~ nd. edulstorel 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, March 27, 2006 
more interested now in where Notre Dame's architec­ture] students are good at tra­able. You don't get the same rebuilding cities ... making ture students worked, Bess ditional urbanism because view on TV."


Project 
urban communities that can said they have a lot to offer we're one of the few schools According to Oklak, Notre thrive." that those [in the country] that has it in Dame's Catholic mission and
continued from page 1 
Similar sentiments from other its curriculum." economic reasons are also 
were echoed by sen­schools don't. Settle agreed that Notre reasons for the involvement of that's been imparted on our ior Brian Settle. "{Just/ to see the "These were Dame's architectural curricu­Notre Dame's students and stl.ldents." "Our work in devastation was towns that lum provided a beneficial professors in the rebuilding of . 
Student Abbey Oklak said Mississippi gave us were eroded background for approaching Biloxi and D'Iberville.
unbelievable. You
she received both of those a hands-on view, by sprawl ... their projects. "I think that it's important benefits. and let us see the don't get the same since World "It's important for us for us as a Catholic university 
As part of the project, stu­political process view on Tv." War II, and the because we want it to be ... to try to better society, which dents talked to professionals, involved," he said. hurricane rebuilt the right way with tra­involves being active when a townspeople, Mississippi "(.lustl to see the wiped all of ditional themes. It's more ben­tragedy like Hurricane
Brian Settle
Governor llal~y Barbour and devastation was that out. eficial for the area to be built Katrina happens," she said. people within city govern­unbelievable. You senior There's an in the way it was supposed to "We have the understanding mnnts, Oklak said. don't get the same opportunity to be to begin with," Settle said. of what to do and we're free. 
"They have so much hope view on TV." rebuild these "We learned a lot about the We're free professionals basi­for the future and they don't Since the University has places similar to what they area and the culture, and we cally ... They don't have to pay want to make what happened "traditional urbanism" were like prior to 1945 in used [that knowledge I to us." to them reflect on their future required in its curriculum and terms of their 'walkability' design our buildings." ... They want to rebuild," because of the history of the and their aestheti.cs," Bess "Other than that, just to see Contact Peter Ninneman at Oklak said. ''I'm definitely buildings and communities said. "Notre Dame [architec-the devastation was unbeliev-pninnema@nd.edu 

Morin 
continued from page 1 
is studying in Rome with Morin, said she became good friends with him during the last several months. She described Morin as "amaz­ingly tough." 
"The [architecture) school has been really great at keeping the other architec­ture students updated continually on Eric's condition -and it seems that each time doctors project a new timeline for his pace of recovery, he beats their pre­dictions by leaps and bounds," Shannon said in an e-mail. 
Shannon said the day after Morin's accident architecture students stopped mid-lecture in a Sicilian cathedral to pray for their classmate. 
"A few hours later, we got word that his condition was turning for the better," she said. "And of course, that is the best remedy we can ask for of the Notre Dame family -just to keep Eric in your prayers." 
Morin is a former resident of Siegfried llall, where a mass was held for his recov­nry March 20. llis former roommate, junior Andy Crutchfield, has been updat­ed on Morin's condition through Siegfried rector Father John Conley. 
"From what they're telling rnn everything's going to be perfectly fine," Crutchfield said March 23. "I'm relinved and just ... looking forward to hnaring from him." 
Brown said all architncture students in the Home pro­gram wnre on the trip to Naples, but Morin was the only student injured. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmaloneJ@nd.edu 
Write News for Saint Mary's. Call Kelly at 

284-5365 
~ 'h;vJI 'fOO bl :wcrecd lhdf~ tt'tft ~.,It: •:fNlOO ;m ~~ thJI\;:c.»~ ID ftft'S(tit.~ J!l(ii.';l f~tl(.1;~)?~;~~·(r«trt ~~;f~ 'SP:~:QS.S tt; [fu'tt.>~ ~' m~'ti! ,>fft?~twlf. ,.1 (!(O)!(yhll,y to k-am frorr, ~,of lJl(> ~,t b!ent mUW ~fy): ~ \Wt U5 00 r:~~~ Ct' 00 tf'l(." Web 11! ("f\ ..·F> .;·;,"(~a·,h:, W'fi.)ll~)"~ 0(~1 tr;:4· r::.J 'tAi(,i«; ~~ttit). 






ORLD & NATION 
Monday, March 27, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVER.'S Wl RE SERVlCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
French unions slow transportation 
PAIHS -French students and unions insisted Sunday they will go ahead with a one-day national strike and more street protests unless the government withdraws a youth labor law that has sparked violent demonstrations and shut down universities. 
The strike Tuesday is expected to leave some air travelers stranded, disrupt train traffic and slow subway travel in Paris and the provinces. Union leaders said they would meet Wednesday to decide on the next step, and one threatened to extend the strike. 
"If there is not a positive response from the government Tuesday night, we will con­tinue the movement," Jean-Claude Mailly of the Workers Force union told The Associated Press. 
The National Student Coordination, a loose grouping of university students, urged a big turnout for the strike and demanded the conservative government's resignation. Meeting in Aix-en-Provence, they also threatened to continue protests by blocking roads and railways Thursday. 
18 killed in army mosque attack 
BAGHDAD-Police and an a top aide to radical Shiite cleric Muqtada al-Sadr said Sunday that 18 people were killed in a clash involving U.S .. and Iraqi army forces at a mosque in eastern Baghdad. 
American military spokesmen said they were investigating the report. 
Abdul-Zahra al-Suaidi, head of ai-Sadr's office in Baghdad, said U.S. forces and Iraqi soldiers opened fire at the al­Moustafa Shiite mosque in the Ur neigh­borhood, killing 18 people in what he called an unprovoked attack. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Preacher's wife murders husband 
SELMER, Tenn. -The preacher's wife charged with murder in the death of her husband wanted his congregation to know "she was sorry for everything she has done," said a friend who visited her in jail Sunday. 
Church member Pam Killingsworth visit­ed Mary Winkler after Sunday services and said the preacher's wife gave no indication why her husband of 10 years was shot. 
"She just said she was sorry and for me to write a note to the church saying that she was sorry for everything she had done," said Killingsworth as she walked away from the jail in tears. 
Winkler, 32, has been charged with first­degree murder in the death of her hus­band, Matthew Winkler, the preacher at the Fourth Street Church of Christ in this small town 80 miles east of Memphis. 
Township mourns crash victims 
MONHOE TOWNSHIP, N.J.-Hundreds of mourners paid tribute Saturday to 10 senior citi­zens who died in a Chilean bus crash. 
Eli Perlman, the leader of the Jewish Congregation of Concordia, where six of the vic­tims worshipped, recited the names of the dead. Gov. Jon S. Corzine was among the crowd. 
The victims were part of a 64-member B'nai B'rith group traveling on the cruise ship Millennium. They were on an excursion on a tour bus Wednesday when it fell more than 300 IP.Pt down a mountainside. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Project Lifesaver tracks missing 
JEFFERSONVILLE, Ind. -Some search and rescues in Clark County might become quicker and cheaper under a new program that tracks missing people using electronic bracelets that emit radio si~-,rnals. 
The initiative is part of a program called Project Lifesaver, which allows law enforce­ment agencies to locate missing people such as Alzheimer's patients or autistic children. 
About 10 people around the county have been trained to operate the tracking devices. 
UKRAINE 


Our Ukraine wins majority vote 
Viktor Yanukovych's pro-Russian party wins most votes in presidential election 
Associated Press 
KIEV-A pro-Russia party won the largest chunk of votes in Ukraine's parlia­mentary elections Sunday, nationwide exit polls indicat­ed, dealing a stinging rebuke to President Viktor Yushchenko's West-leaning administration. 
Polling stations shut after 15 hours, but voters who had waited in long lines and managed to get inside before the official closing time were allowed to cast ballots, choosing from more than 45 parties that sought seats in the 450-member parliament. 
VIktor Yanukovych, a pro­Moscow opposition leader who lost to Yushchenko in the.2004 presidential elec­tion forced by the Orange Revolution street protests, declared his party the win­ner on Sunday. 
"The Party of the Regions has won a convincing victo­ry," Yanukovych said. "We are ready to undertake responsibility for forming the Cabinet and we are calling on everyone to join us." 

The polls gave Yanukovych's party any­where from 27.5 percent to 33 percent, followed by Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko's bloc with about 23 percent, and Yushchenko's Our Ukraine bloc with between 14 per­cent and 16 percent. tion. appoint the foreign and Ihor Prikordonny, a 68­
Yushchenko's job was not Yushchenko also seemed defense ministers, pledged year-old retiree, said he at stake, but the vote was the to hint he might even consid­the nation would continue on voted for Yushchenko 's party first since constitutional er working with Yanukovych. its Westward path. but was against the presi­reforms cut presidential The president's party has "The vote results will have dent's striking an alliance powers and gave broader suffered from disillusionment no impact whatsoever on with Yanukovych. authority to parliament, over a sharp economic slow­Ukraine's foreign policy "Yanukovych has discredit­including the right to name down and the infighting course," he told reporters. ed himself and lacks educa­the prime minister and much among former Orange revo­Yanukovych, who enjoys tion and culture," he said. of the Cabinet. lution allies. But Yushchenko broad support in Ukraine's Russia, still reeling from 
The Yanukovych's victory insisted before voting ended Russian-speaking industrial­the humiliating defeat it suf­could potentially give him that no matter how his party ized east and has ties to its fered in the 2004 presiden­say over those choices, did, the election was still a powerful tycoons, advocates tial election when a court although he would not have victory because it was the improved ties with Moscow annulled Yanukovych's the majority needed to act most democratic election and a halt to Ukraine's fraud-tainted victory and without parliamentary allies. ever held in Ukraine. efforts to join NATO. ordered a repeat vote, avoid­
There were also indica­"I feel great. It's the kind of Yushchenko~ and ed direct meddling in the tions Yushchenko and feeling you have before a vic­Tymoshenko's parties could campaign. Tymoshenko, the flamboyant tory," said Yushchenko. together end up with more The U.S. also turned its heroine of the Orange "Democratic elections always votes than Yanukovych's attention on Ukraine. In Hevolution's protests, might mean victory." bloc, but the two had a bitter recent weeks, Washington be willing to try to patch over Yushchenko, who as presi­falling out when the presi­adopted legislation ending their differences so they dent retains the right to set dent abruptly fired her as Cold War-era trade restric­could form a governing coati-Ukraine's foreign policy and prime minister in September. tions on Ukraine. 


Man shoots eight, commits suicide 
Associated Press gunman lived with his twin brother. where the twins' apartment is located. 
Authorities identified the alleged "We believe we have the suspect iden­

SEATTLE -A man suspected of shooter as Aaron Kyle Huff, 28, who tified," Whitcomb said. "We are not killing six young people at a house party moved to Seattle nearly five years ago. releasing that identity because we are before he turned the gun on himself Montana's Flathead County sheriff's not 100 percent certain." was described Sunday as respectful and Lt. Dave Leib said he informed Huffs Pickett said he never saw either of the polite by an apartment manager. mother Sunday afternoon that her son brothers with weapons. 
The man committed suicide Saturday was dead and was a suspect in the The gunman was armed with a 12­morning after police said he opened fu-e shootings. gauge pistol-grip shotgun, a handgun on young partygoers who had invited Pickett said he saw the suspected and wore bandoliers of shotgun shells him to a private gathering following a gunman's brother as police searched and additional clips for the handgun. In "zombie rave" in the city's Capitol Hill the twins' apartment Saturday night. his truck, police found an assault rife neighborhood. "He gave a look to me like 'I don't and multiple "banana clips." 
"This would have been so far out of know what's going on,"' Pickett said. Four young men and two young character," said Jim Pickett, the assis­Police spokesman Sean Whitcomb women were killed, and two people tant manager of the Town & Country confirmed that a search warrant was were hospitalized in serious condition Apartments, where he said the alleged served Saturday evening on the block after the shooting. 
page 6 Monday, March 27, 2006 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Drea01 
continued from page 1 
shocking. 
"It's no surprise," he said. "Wn're always going to be up 

thorn for the  same  reasons  
you and I am here  - it's just  
a gn~at  place."  

Saracino said comparable studios have made similar conclusions. Two years ago, a survny asked high school guidance eounselors "If you had to do it all over again, whieh sehool would you go to'!" According to Saraeino, Notre Dame was tlw No. 1 school -and for the right rnasons. 
"What's really neat and humbling is that students aren't choosing [Notre Damn I because it's in a New York or 
D.C. ... Kids are coming to Notre Dame because they really want to be a part of this place," he said. "Notre Dame has just got so much going for it. The place is just quietly each year getting stronger acadomically, and the students that eome here just want to be here." 
Dospite Notre Dame's repu­tation, students nationwide are not rating the University above schools like Yale, Brown and Duke -evnn though their parents are, according to the survey. 
"I guess for parents, tlwy're looking at it for .. . safety and in the long-term what a Notre Damn nducation would mean," Saracino said. "I think studnnts don't have that perspective ynt." 
Frnshman Dan Perkny said thern arn snrious difTt)rences bntwenn thn pt~rspeetivn of parnnts and that of studnnts. 
"l'arnnts are looking for what will get you a good job or make you a good person," hn said. "Students go af"ter Ivy League schools, party schools and sehools that are in Florida and California, depnnding on the person." 
But Saraeino said the dis­erepaney between students and parents is not a major issue, and the survey will not affect Notre Dame's admis­sions. 

"We'd be most interested in surveys if it be the type of students who would be good matches for Notre Damn," he said. "What we do in admis­sions is not sell Notre Damn -far from it. What we do is we tell the story of Notre Damn." 
The admissions numbers tell a more important story, Saracino said. The national average for yield (whether or not a student will come to a univnrsity if admitted) is around 30 percent. But Notre Dame's yield is over 50 per­cent. nwaning most students who apply to Notre Dame really want to attend the University, Saracino said. 

According to freshman Paul Oddy, Notre Dame was not just any school on his appli­eation list. 
"If you really want to test 

Write News. Call 1-5323. 

yourself you'll apply to Ivy because there's no way of 
L e a g u e schools just 
"What's really neat

to sen if you can get in," and humbling is Oddy said. 
that students aren't

"For Notre 
choosing {Notre Dame} 
Dame that doesn't really because it's in h a p p e n 
New York or D.C. ...

because peo­
Kids are coming to 

ple that apply here seem to Notre Dame because a p p I y 
they really want to be a 
because they 
part ofthis place. 

have a pas­sion for the school." Daniel Saracino 
T h e 
Office of Admissions 

Princeton 
director

Heview's study is not entirely useful to Notre Dame second to 
knowing what kind of stu­dents are being surveyed and whether or not they would match the pro­file of a Notre Dame student, Saracino said. 
"I would match the non­academic pro­file of our stu­dents against any college in the country in terms of extracurricular ractivities) ... Our kids are 
none," he said. 
"Then when you look at that in addition to the academic profile, that would be the kind of student that I would want to survey." 
The survey told parents and students not to factor in chance of admission or cost when ranking their dream eolleges. Cost is becoming less and less of an issue any­way, Saracino said. 
"Money is not a concern for the students and the parents that know that financial aid is available," he said. 
In recent years Notre Dame has significantly increased financial aid, currently offer­ing over $64 million to under­graduates, Saracino said. 
This week, admissions for the elass of 2010 are "down 

to the wire," Saracino said. Admissions decisions will be mailed to students at the end of March and will likely be making quite a few dreams come true for both students and parents. 
Oddy said he knew the feel­ing of realizing that dream when he was accepted a year ago. 
"My parents were tremen­dously proud and felt seeure about me coming to Notre Dame," he said. "It was defi­nitely a dream sehool for them. It's a dream school for me too -you can't really ask for more than what Notre Dame offers." 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd.edu 

---""'""'--'v speedtalk~·..·~·-···m Unlimited SpeedTalk Minutes • 1000 Anytime Minutes • $49.95 per month • Buy 1 and get up to 3 LG UX4750 phones FREE (with ·2-year contracts and mail-in rebates ­offer good through 3/29/06) * US.Cellular 1·888·1UY-USCC • GETUSC.COM  I t  

Monday, March 27, 2006 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

11,279.97 +9.68
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,938 179 1,286 2,393,178,470 
AMEX l ;911,~19() l!l0';ii! :~1!~'.5 
NASDAQ 2 312.82 +11.17 
NYSE s:2s~~a~~l!::~,;+25.35' 
S&PSOO I ,302.95 +1.28 
NIKKEI(Tokyo) •.•. ? i•l6~1111llllllll'!llilil•li.ll~OM:i!J.I ffif IOO(Lonclon) 6,007.50 +16.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ II0 TR (QQQQ) +0.51 +0.21 41.30 
JDS UNIPHASE CP ODSU) 
+2.81 +0.11 4.03 
MI<;ROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.60 +0.16 27.0 I 
LEVEL 3 COMM INC (LVLT) +5.74 +0.23 4.24 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +2.05 +0.10 4.97 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.35 -0.64 46.75 13-WEEK BILL -0.26 -0.12 45.35 30-YEAR BOND -1.26 -0.60 46.95 5-YEARNOTE -1.42 -0.6 7 46.62 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.35 64.26 GOLD ($fTroy oz.) +9.70 560.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.33 88.13 
Excha Rates 

YEN 116.6800 
EURO 0.8308 
POUND 0.5731 
CANADIAN$ 1.1678 
IN BRIEF 
Gold and silver prices on the rise 
NEW YORK -Gold prices rose sharply Friday due to fund buying encouraged by recent silver gains, reduced rate-hike exp'ec­tations after a weak U.S. housing report, the strong tone lately in crude oil, plus chart­based factors. 
Silver also edged higher, underpinned by anticipation that a silver exchange-traded fund soon will get final approval. 
April gold settled up $9.70 at $560.50 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Spot gold rose $9.90 to $560 ·an ounce. 
"It's staging what I would call a catch-up move," said Tim Evans, analyst with IFR Pegaus. "After resisting the upward pull of silver all week long, the market couldn't hold back any more and is making up for lost time here." 
Recent strength in crude oil is another background factor helping gold, said Evans. May crude gained $2.14 Thursday, and Friday settled 35 cents higher at $64.26 a barrel. 
"That market has kicked into the upper part of its recent trading range over the last two days," said Evans. "That heightens con­cern about inflationary pressures, even though the recent CPI and PPI data has been benign." 
Dollar value slips against euro 
NEW YORK -The dollar slipped Friday against most major currencies as the markets considered how two economic reports may influ­ence Federal Reserve monetary policy. 
The 12-nation euro bought $1.2030 in after­noon New York trading, up from $1.1966 in New York late Thursday. The British pound rose to $1.7422 from $1.7348. 
The dollar fell to 117.46 yen from 117.91 yen late Thursday. 
Early Thursday, the Commerce Department reported that orders to U.S. factories for big-tick­et manufactured goods rose in February by the largest amount in three months, fueled by soar­ing demand for civilian aircraft. 
The Commerce Department followed with another report showing that new U.S. home sales dropped by 10.5 percent in February. 


THE OBSERVER 









USINESS 
page 7 

Housing demand questioned 
Federal Reserve continues to raise rates after another quarter of strong earnings 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Wall Street closed out the week with modest gains Friday, though trading was errat­ic as encouraging signs of a cooling housing market conf1icted with signals of economic strength and left no real clue as to the Federal Reserve's next move on interest rates. 
The latest report on the housing sector showed new home sales tumbling 
10.5 percent in February, according to the Commerce Department ­the biggest one-month drop in nine years. With slowing housing demand, Wall Street felt that would make it easier for the Fed to stop raising rates soon. 
However, a surge in big­ticket factory orders raised questions about whether demand would hold steady, possibly increasing pricing pres­sure and the chance for higher inl1ation. The Fed meets Monday and Tuesday, and is expected to raise the nation's benchmark rate by a quarter percentage point to 4.75 percent. 

While questions remain as to how many more rate hikes the Fed will imple­ment, analysts believe stocks still have room to previous session's sell off, biggest jump in three Wednesday, stocks fin­move higher, thanks to a with the yield on the months, according to the ished the week mixed. decent economy and the benchmark 10-year Commerce Department. The Dow was up less than chance for another quar­Treasury note sliding to Investors worried that the 0.01 percent for the week, ter of strong corporate 4.66 percent from 4.74 report signaled resurgent having risen just 0.32 earnings. percent late Thursday. economic growth that point from the previous 
"The economic data The dollar fell against could encourage interest week's close of 11,279.65, points to the Fed stopping most major currencies, rate hikes. while the S&P fell 0.33 (hikes) sooner rather than while gold prices moved "After all this data, percent and the Nasdaq later, and that's encourag­.higher. where the Fed ends is still climbed 0.27 percent. ing," said Jack Caffrey, Crude oil prices vacillat­a toss-up, and that's In corporate news, equities strategist at J.P. ed after rising more than weighing on the stock Lucent Technologies Inc., Morgan Private Bank. $2 per barrel in the previ­market," said Bryan consistently one of the "Combined with the fact ous session. A barrel of Piskorowski, market ana­most active stocks on the that you haven't had a lot light crude settled at lyst at Wachovia New York Stock of negative pre-announce­$64.26, up 35 cents, on Securities. "But looking at Exchange, climbed 24 ments on first-quarter the New York Mercantile the big picture, the Dow's cents, or 8.5 percent, to earnings, this is a decent Exchange. up 5 percent for the year, $3.06 after the company environment for equities." Stocks opened flat as the other indexes are up, said it was in talks with 
The Dow Jones industri­orders for durable goods and it's been a relatively French telecom equip­al average rose 9.68, or big-ticket items successful quarter." ment maker Alcatel SA 
0.09 percent, to designed to last at least Despite volatile trading about a possible merger. 
11,279.97. three years-climbed 2.6 and a new five-year high Alcatel added 25 cents to Bonds surged after the percent in February, the for the Dow on $15.70. 

Medical devices collected for defect 
Associated Press Maher, contacted several Twin Cities of evidence," said Randy Hopper, an 
funeral homes to gather the devices attorney involved in the cases against 
MINNEAPOLIS-Law firms pressing after reading news reports of the both companies. He said an independ­legal cases against medical device recalls last summer. Funeral directors ent lab would test the devices. makers took their quest for evidence to typically get family permission to Rob Clark, a company spokesman, an unusual place: a crematorium. remove the devices before cremation said Medtronic had no evidence that 
Hennepin County sheriff's deputies to prevent them from exploding during Maher had contacted the company or collected heart defibrillators and pace­the process. tried to return its devices. makers from Cremation and Trade Maher says he collected the devices "We are easily accessible and receive Services Inc. of St. Paul, Minn., and because he believes the makers have returned devices on a daily basis," sealed 42 of them in evidence bags. no standard way to collect them once Clark said. 
Attorneys who subpoenaed the they are removed from the deceased. Technicians for both companies were devices have brought cases against He said he tried to return them to their on hand when the devices were col­Indianapolis-based Guidant Corp. and manufacturers, without success. lected. Clark said that of 26 Medtronic Fridley, Minn.-based Medtronic Inc., Plaintiffs' lawyers supboenaed any devices inspected by its' technicians, all which have recalled nearly 400,000 Guidant or Medtronic .devices in but one was operating properly. defibrillators and pacemakers in the Maher's collection after reading a About a dozen devices collected past year because of possible defects. news story about it in February. Tuesday were from makers not 
The crematorium's operator, Rob "This is really about the preservation involved in the two federal court cases. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Monday, March 27, 2006 
Reilly 
continued from page 1 
pool to campus and show thorn Notre Dame, Off'icc of Admissions counselor Jacob Baska said. 
"I Hnilly Weeknnd partici­pants an~l litnrally the best of the bnst from early aetion. in all l'inlds," Baska said. 
Of tho 1,200 studnnts who WIHI1 mailnd narly action adrnittancn letters in l>ocnrnber, approximately 120 worn invitod to attend the wnnknnd. The invitnd stu­dnnts average in the top one to two pnrcnnt of their high s d10 o l c l a s s , Bas k a s a i d . Thnir SAT avnragns are in the mid-l,500s, and they average a :~4 or abovn on tho ACT. The students also boast an imprnssivn array of extracur­ricular activities-Eagle Scouts, athletic tnam captains and computnr programmers make up the group this year. 
William Heilly, a Notre Dame alum and Board of Trustnns member and founder of Aurel an Corn m unications, is unique. 
"The goal is to give a por­trayal of Notre Dame life," Baska said. 
During the four-day week­end, the admitted high school seniors toured the campus and the stadium, attended Mass at the Basilica and met with current students to dis­cuss life at Notre Dame. Today they will attend class­es. talk with professors and learn about the various pro­grams offered. 
The high school seniors stayed mostly with past Reilly Weekend participants. Freshman· Margie Hosmonowski, who came to Notrn Dame for the Reilly Weekend last year, hosted a participant. She said the event is a good program for undncided prospnctive stu­dents. 
"l think it's a really good opportunity to see campus and see what ND is really about," Hosmonowski said. "You get to experience it as a student instead of as someone on a tour." 
Paul Dixon, a high school 
student from St. 
Louis, Mo., also 
applied to 
set up a scholar­Stanford,
"/ was suprised by 
ship fund snveral Washington yoars ago for how there is such a University in St. students who 
sense ofNotre Louis and 
had "amazingly Villanova, but
Dame family. ...
high talent," Notre Dame was 
Baska said. There's a spirit his top choice "Unfortunately on campus. before he even that scholarship arrived on cam­was so rarely pus this week­
Paul Dixon
usod simply end. bocauso that kid Reilly prospect "When 
was also bright enough to get a full ride at many othnr great institutions," Baska said. "So there were many years that that money just sat there." 
2006 marked the fourth year the Heilly trust has been used to pay for a weekend visit for many of the top admitted students. Baska estimates that more than half of the Heilly Visitation stu­dents will decide to attend Notre Dame next year. 
According to Office of Admissions counselor and event coordinator Katherine Cardinali, the weekend's events are designed to show students who have been accepted to several other top­tier schools how Notre Dame walked on cam­
pus in November, 
it was at nine o'clock at night. I couldn't see anything, but it just felt amazing," Dixon said. "I felt right at home." 
Dixon, who stayed in St. Edward's Hall this weekend, said his time on campus cemented his decision to attend Notre Dame next year. 
"I was surprised by how there is such a sense of Notre Dame family.... There's a spirit on campus," he said. "When I visited Washington University, people were there to study and nothing else ­here there was a real sense of community." 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
ROBERT 


ADAMSON 
reads from his new book of poems 
The <::;oLolfi.ll\..cnes 
of e;e;t gV1 ol e;t ol 
r-----------------~ 
March 27, 2006 7:30p.m. 
Recker's Hospitality Room 
Presented 



Asia prepares for bioterrorisn1 
Epidemic-prone region now readies its citizens for potential attack 
Associated Press 

SINGAPORE -Hot weather. Crowded communities. Weak public health systems. Conditions like these have turned Southeast Asia into a breeding ground for SAHS and bird flu. Now experts warn that the region's vulnerability to infectious disease could prove devastating in the event of a bioterror attack. 
The threat cannot be ruled out: Some of the region's Islamic militants are believed to be interested in acquiring disease-causing agents or tox­ins, and any nation allied with the United States is said to be a potential target. 
That is why Interpol is host­ing a workshop on the threat of bioterrorism in Singapore next week, gathering senior police and government offi­cials from 37 countries around Asia. A similar confer­ence was held in South Africa in November, and another will be held in Chile later this year. 
Starting Monday, the dele­gates in Singapore will discuss lab security, forensic work and laws to prevent bioterror­ism, as well as how to respond to a simulated bioterrorist attack. 
The United States, which adopted the Bioterrorism Act in 2002 after anthrax sent through the mail killed five people, wants Asian nations to craft similar laws that man­date tighter controls on access to biological agents and tox­ins. 
So far, militants in Southeast Asia have used conventional terror weapons. Jemaah Islamiyah, a group linked to al-Qaida, is accused of deadly bombings, including blasts on the Indonesian resort island of Bali in 2002. The Abu Sayyaf group has carried out bomb attacks and kidnappings in the Philippines. 

But detained suspects include Yazid Sufaat, a former Malaysian army captain and a U.S.-trained biochemist linked to al-Qaida's attempts to pro­duce chemical and biological arms. Yazid was arrested in late 2001 as he returned to Malaysia from Afghanistan. 
A Jemaah Islamiyah manual discovered in the Philippines in 2003 indicates interest in acquiring chemical and bio­logical agents for use in a ter­rorist attack, said Rohan Gunaratna, a terrorism expert based in Singapore. 

"It demonstrates serious intent, but not capability," Gunaratna said. 
Terrorists need expertise to acquire pathogens from nature and transform them into a potent weapon. Japan's Aum Shinrikyo cult, whose homemade sarin chemical agent killed 12 people in 1995, was unable to isolate a virulent strain of anthrax. 
But more Asian countries are pursuing biomedical research, which can lead to new treatments, and concern is growing that laboratory materials could fall into the wrong hands. 
Expanding Our Liturgical Horizons 
'\\?ednt..~'!{• ~:rch 29, 20()6 1:Q.1p.wn. 
Lt:.• ~ia1't11 1--laU StalJik-t•to Lt::wt:u~~· 

TJ•e:1 .E~~J•.x:r-i!IOC: lruc~w ,....e.'$.1!Hl\C ••Hid {.~""""'~~~ ...... ~""'·"'"·'"'' 
<:s-.th<·tin~;;· '\lincii:~,. HSll!\1. r'1,.... D, ""'$~;>cii;tte I~JI\-,I~~~'ii<O'I'I'~ S;t<'t4lilllt(.tt1t;)l~ ~.n:lld Ltturg:.:u::a~ ·'f1M.'~"Ic~v i~·qktill,•:•iii· ~n~tiru!f;..;~·~ S.il~n.r L..;lu:l;;. lht1\.o..,.·r ~ity, S:t. L:)tli.,.. l\l() 
i':Jitilh~n~ru<;f·...,..~·~d uJ -..:r~ ~t:H·•-4111:t.:t<b • ;;wn#ih .,..,111'<.·•·1n-u"4j;";..,,inlm<'!r'\ .....,.1._.. 
-~· 

Monday, March 27, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
liTIInigration debate faces fire in Congress 
Statutes determine thefate of12 million people 
Associated Press 
WA.SHINGTON -Founded by immigrants and praised as a haven for the oppressed, the United States now is struggling to decide the fate of as many as 12 million people living in the coun­try illegally. 
The Senate takes up the emo­tional debate on the heels of weekend rallies that drew hun­dreds of thousands of people protesting attempts to toughen laws against immigrants. Among the ideas that President Bush and members of Congress are considering: 
-Erecting a fence on the Mexico border to deter illegal immigration. 
-Treating people who sneak across the border as felons to be deported. 
-Allowing foreigners to stay in the country legally as custodi­ans, dish washers, construction workers and other low-paid employees. 
-Allowing those working in the U.S. a path to citizenship. 
-Hequiring them to get in line behind everyone else back in their home countries who want to become Americans. 
On Monday, the Senate Judiciary Committee takes up the issue and Bush headlines a naturalization ceremony for 30 new citizens at Constitution Hall. Demonstrations are planned near the Capitol. including a prayer service with immigration advocates and clergy who plan to wear handcuffs to demonstrate the criminalization of immigra­tion violations. 
Bush is going to Mexico this week for a meeting with the leaders of Mexico and Canada. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said Sunday it's important that Mexico "recognize the importance of defense of the bor­ders and of American laws." 
Protests raged across the country over the weekend, led by more than 500,000 people who marched through downtown Los Angeles on Saturday in one of the largest demonstrations for any cause in recent U.S. history. Marchers also took to the streets in Phoenix, Milwaukee, Dallas and Columbus, Ohio. 
Demonstrations continued Sunday, when nearly 3,000 peo­ple, many wrapped in Mexican flags, rallied at the Ohio Statehouse in Columbus and an estimated 3,500 United Farm Workers members and their sup­porters protested in Los Angeles. 
The president, working hand­in-hand with the business com­munity that relies on cheap labor, is pressuring Congress to allow immigrants to stay in the country legally if they take a job that Americans are unwilling to do. 
Judiciary Chairman Arlen Specter, R-Pa., also supports the idea and has vowed that his committee will advance a bill to the full Senate on Monday, even if they have to work "very, very late into the night." 
"If they're prepared to work to become American citizens in the long line traditionally of immi­grants who have helped make this country, we can have both a nation of laws and a welcoming nation of workers who do some very, very important jobs for our economy," Specter said Sunday on ABC's "This Week." 


U.S. rallies protest potential la-ws 
Nearly half a million unite in Los Angeles to refute Bush's plans 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES immigration rights advocates more than 500,000 strong marched in downtown Los Angeles, demanding that Congress abandon attempts to make helping illegal immi­grants a crime and to build more walls along the border. 
The massive demonstration, one of half dozen around the nation in recent days, came as President Bush prodded Republican congressional leaders to give some illegal immigrants a chance to work legally in the U.S. under cer­tain conditions. 
Saturday's march in Los Angeles was the largest in a series of demonstrations across the country. Police Cmdr. Louis Gray Jr. said aer­ial helicopters estimated the crowd. 
Many marchers wore white shirts to symbolize peace and waved U.S. flags. Some car­ried the flags of Mexico and other countries, and wore them as capes. 
Elger Aloy, 26, of Riverside, a premed student, pushed a stroller with his 8-month-old son at Saturday's Los Angeles march and called the legisla­tion "inhumane." 
"Everybody deserves the right to a better life," he said. 
The U.S. House of Hepresentatives has passed legislation that would make it a felony to be in the U.S. ille­gally, impose new penalties on employers who hire illegal immigrants and erect fences along one-third of the U.S.­Mexican border. 
The Senate is to begin debating the proposals on Tuesday. 

President Bush on Saturday called for legislation that does not force America to choose between being a wel­coming society and a lawful one.. 
"America is a nation of immigrants, and we're also a nation of laws," Bush said in his weekly radio address about the emotional immigra­tion issue that has driven a wedge into his party. 
Bush sides with business leaders who want legislation to let some of the estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants stay in the coun­try and work for a set period of time. Others, including Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, say national security concerns should drive immi­gration reform. 
"They say we are criminals. We are not criminals," said Salvador Hernandez, 43, of Los Angeles, a resident alien who came to the United States illegally from El Salvador 14 years ago and worked as truck driver, painter and day laborer. 
Francisco Flores, 27, a wood flooring installer from Santa Clarita who is a former illegal immigrant, said, "We want to work legally, so we can pay our taxes and sup­par.~ the country, our coun­try. 
In Denver, police said over 50,000 people gathered downtown at Civic Center Park next to the Capitol to urge the state Senate to reject a resolution supporting a ballot issue that would deny many government services to 
illegal  immigrants  in  
Colorado.  
Elsa  Rodriguez,  30,  a  
trained pilot who  came  to  

Colorado in 1999 from Mexico to look for work, said she just wants to be consid­ered equal. 
"We're like the ancestors who started this country, they came from other countries without documents, too," the Arvada resident. "They call us lazy and dirty, but we just want to come to work. If you see, we have families, too." 
On Friday, tens of thou­sands of people were estimat­ed to have joined in rallies in cities including Los Angeles, Phoenix and Atlanta and staged school walkouts, marches and work stoppages. 
Radical Encounters: Finding and Fonning Conummity Asummer course on reliuion and communitv 
~ J 
wi1l1 aone-week residencv at Mt. Saviour Monasterv.
.i J . 
Elmira1 N.Y. May 31-June 8, 1006 
AI th¢ rcsldi~O(}. ~1\ldy his!ork (omm\:nili~·;;. ll'i!lln ing ~·nmmttniii~s ma\ari~ty 
llf litith tr:idilton~. iimil a(ih'll. ~cunlcllii:Jl rmmnu11il} o!'s[ud~nl~ anJ litcu!:y 
lrom ~c\~:talc,ilk·g~\ trp tr' !htce college cr~dih J~1ssibk.l 





Coffee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, March 28 7:30-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 



The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students invites gay, lesbian. and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family. their friends, and supporters loan informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone IS welcome and confidentmhty is assured 
Coffee and refreshments wilt be served 

CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN
STUDENTS 
page 10 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, March 27, 2006 
Catholic Church names 15 ne-w cardinals in Vatican City 
Pope Benedict XVI welcomes religious dignitaries, reflects on Pope John Paul II's life during traditional ceremony 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY -From tra­ditional crimson robes to the rarn sight of tho red nag of China, St. Peter's Square was a study in scariPt on Friday. 
Popn Benedict XVI warmly embraced 1!i nnw eardinals in a ritual-l'illnd c1~rnmony that displayed the worldwide reaeh of the Homan Catholic Church. 
In a poignant monHmt, tnars welled in his eyes as he gripped the shoulder of the Polish prnlatn who faithfully snrvnd his predecnssor for 40 years. 
Tho tribute to Pope John Paul II drew long applausP from thn crowd in St. Peter's Square as Benedict elevated An:hbishop Stanislaw Dziwisz, the late pontiff's privati~ seerntary, 
as well as key "/ thought of the dinal told The ehurchmnn from 2,ooo years of Associated Press Hong Kong, at a reception for
history of the

Boston, Veneztwla the new and the Church, ofSt. Peter "princes" of the 
Philippines. who gave up his church in the 
They are now frescoed rooms
life. And now there

members of the of the Apostolic elite group who I was.... Who Palace. will eventually would have The pope has choose the been reaching
thought?"

pope's out to China, successor. which broke Coming from Sean O'Malley relations with North and South Vatican after the
cardinal 
Doctrine of the  Faith,  the  
Vatican's  chief  doctrinal  
watchdog.  

The nPw cardinals also included !long Kong Bishop Joseph Zen, a champion of religious freedom in China, Archbishop Jorge Liberato Urosa Savino of Caracas, Venezuela, who has sought to reduce tensions between the church and President Hugo Chavez, and Archbishop Gaudnncio B. Hosales of Manila, Philippines, the Catholic bastion of Asia. 
At one point during the cere­mony, a man waved the red flag of China in the crowd ­an unusual sight at the Vatican. 
"The lloly Father· loves China and I hope to be of serv­
ice to him," the 
llong Kong car­

America, Europe and Asia, they showed the global power of tho 1 billion-member Homan Catholic Church. 
One by one, they walked up to Benedict, who was seated on the steps of St. Peter's Basilica, knelt before him and received a "biretta," a four­sid()d hat with three distinct ridges on its upper side whose crimson color signifies their willingness to shed blood for the church. When the 87-year­old Peter Poreku Dery of Ghana was brought up in a wheelchair, the pope rose from his throne to embrace him. 
"I f1dt wonderful, especially when the pope stood up and gave me a kiss," Dery said. 
Archbishop Sean O'Malley, who was brought in to dean up tlw church in Boston al'ter a major sex abuse scandal, was among tlw rww cardinals, along with William l.evada, formerly the archbishop of San Francisco and Portland, Ore. l.evada took over Bonndict's old job as pref'ect of tho Congregation of tho 
Communists 
came to power. 
"The church in Venezuela, the bishop conference and me, we are trying to promote dia­logue," the Caracas clergyman said. "We hope the actual gov­ernment may move toward freedom, justice and peace and inclusion of all Venezuelans, without the exclusion of anyone and with an attitude of tolerance." 
Thousands stood in line to greet the new cardinals, with many pushing and shoving to try to reach John Paul's long­time secretary. 
"I thought of the 2,000 years of history of the church, of St. Peter who gave up his life," said O'Malley. "And now there I was .... Who would have thought?" 
Earlier, he was asked what was said when he passed by Card ina! Bernard Law, his predecessor in Boston, upon rnceiving his n~d hat. "I don't recall the exact words but they wern words of congratu­lations," O'Malley replied. 
Benedict told the prelates he was counting on them to 

.·:< 
i. • ! II<,Til ; ' 'npJ. \Tlh. Itt , •r~' g iII 
: < :--; U I'IV· 'I 1F·J I~~~ 
1
! i It I ••J II I ;)1. IUt'!LJo.. \ ~.';tl. 
II :: • .r , , ,;;j ;·• . •I ,h. I~ ,, ~·P• •r1 , I ;uniI\ .I ,f! I r 1!·:.: p•:• ,,r lk'l;·;r;~· ,,IJK!' aHt!H : _·t :•~ .1t1• '. m. t''· 'a b,_ 

spread the principles of love and charity that he had high­lighted in his first encyclical, "God is Love." 
"May the scarlet that you now wear always express Christ's charity, inspiring you to a passionate love for Christ, for his church and for all humanity," he said. "I am counting on you, dear brother cardinals, to ensure that the principle of love will spread far and wide, and will give new life to the church at every level of her hierarchy." 
"I am counting on you to see to it that our common endeav­or to fix our gaze on Christ's open heart will hasten and secure the path toward the full unity of Christians," he said. 
Benedict has said unifying all Christians is a priority of his pontificate. 
The cardinals also were each assigned a "titular" church in Home to cement their links to the Eternal City. The new cardinals will get 
their rings during a  Mass  on  
Saturday  in  St.  Peter's  
Square.  

Levada spoke on behalf of the new cardinals, telling the pope they gave him their unconditional loyalty, "free of concern for ourselves and our own lives, as this scarlet !robe] unceasingly reminds and warns us." 
Benedict announced Feb. 22 that he was naming the new cardinals, 12 of whom are under age 80 and thus eligible to vote in a conclave. The additions raised the total number of cardinals to 193, 120 of whom can vote. 
While electing a pontiff is the primary task of cardinals, they also are called on to 100, 60 of whom are of voting advise the pope on running age. Latin America is next the church. with 20 voting-age cardinals, 

Following Friday's ceremo­followed by North America ny, Europe will still have the with 16. Asia has 13, Africa vast majority of cardinals at nine and Oceania two. 

(_:onu:.. see this \veU known actress who \.YdS Ihe \:oice of l)isney1s nPorahontas'' 
March 28, 2006 7:00PM 129 Debartolo 


Monday, March 27, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 11 

Prom·survives hurricane 
Associated Press 
PASS CHRISTIAN, Miss. ­Wearing a canary yellow strap­less evening gown, Jessica Jenkins walked across the remains of her home, raising her petticoat to keep it out of the red clay. 
Prom season holds a special importance for Jenkins and other Gulf Coast students whose last year of high school was defined by Hurricane Katrina. 
"The littlest things get to you now," said Jenkins, who was named the prom queen Saturday. "Things that you would never have thought would bother you before the storm, bother you now." 
Next to the site of her old home, where their new house is under construction, Jenkins and older sister Leah share a trailer supplied by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Her parents and younger sister Brett live in an adjacent trailer. At one time, they all shared one trailer, with a white maltese and golden haired poodle. 
"You have a lot of rough mornings trying to get ready in a FEMA trailer," she said. 
Before Saturday's prom, she had to apply her makeup in the trailer's dim lighting while a bulldozer cleared debris from a nearby lot. 
She and her classmates from Pass Christian High have been attending school in portable classrooms set up on the cam­pus of the local elementary school. Enrollment was down from 600 students last year to 420. 
Other senior classes from Pass Christian have had their proms at a venue in downtown Gulfport but it, too, was dam­aged by the storm, so Saturday's 

AP Jessica Jenkins, dressed for her senior prom Saturday, steps on boards to avoid clay and sand around her family's FEMA trailers. 
party for the Class of 2006 was moved to the Orange Grove Community Center off scenic 
U.S. 49, next to the Kangaroo Gas Station. 
Senior Ryan Spear was shocked the school could hold a prom at all, much less have it ready on time. 
"It isn't bittersweet. It's just sweet," fellow senior Heidi Knight said. "Having one just makes you feel normal." 
They got some assistance from far away, as six students from Pennsylvania's State College High School came to help them decorate and others in the central Pennsylvania town donated 150 formal dress­es for the Pass Christian seniors. 
"I figured that most people wouldn't think of a prom for hurricane survivors, but it is something important to high school students," said Jony Rommel, a State College High student who put on a perform­ing arts show to help raise money for Pass Christian's big night. 

In November, another group of Pennsylvania students, from Lampeter-Strasburg High School in Lancaster, donated money and supplies for an elab­orate homecoming gala for Pass Christian and Long Beach high schools. 
Katrina's effects extend into the post-high school plans of some students. Spear will attend a community college in Tennessee, where his family evacuated during the hurricane. Jenkins has decided she will attend Mississippi Community College, where she expects to play softball. 
"I was going to go off farther to a university but now I'm just going to go to a junior college just to stay closer to home," she said. 
ATIENTION CLASS OF 2008 
NC)W ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR THE 




JPW 2007 

Committee 


Apply by March 31st for any of the following positions: 
Chairperson Gala Chair Workshop Chairs: Vice-Chairperson Dinner Chair Arts & Letters Graphic Designer Brunch Chair MCOB 
Secretary Mass Chair Science Treasurer Hospitality Chair Engineering 
Position Descriptions and Applications can be found on the JP\V website: 


NYPD 'Mafia Cops' n1ob trial intensifies 
·Drama erupts during witness questioning 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Louie Eppolito had a story to tell. And, more importantly, one to sell. 
The decorated ex-New York police detective, who also happened to be the son of a mobster, was living in Las Vegas and trying to peddle doomed 
screenplays with "He was sitting one-time Luchese titles like "Murder up at the boss ripped into In Youngstown." Cutler as a loud­
wheel.

Eppolito was look­mouth and a ing for an investor I went to touch cheapskate. in his latest proj­his hand, and The judge ect -and he was showed little more
he must have

unconcerned about tolerance for the source of the just died. His Cutler, cutting off cash. fingertips were his cross-examina­"If you said to tion for shouting at
cold." 

me, 'Lou, I wanna D'Arco. introduce you to The defendants Jack Smith, he Pauline Pipitone themselves are a wants to invest in witness mismatched pair: 
this film,' [and] he says, '$75,000 comes in a [expletive] shoe box,' that's fine with me," Eppolito said during a sur­reptitiously taped conversa­tion with a federal informant. "I don't care. I've had people give me money before." 
It sounds like movie dia­logue, maybe something out of "Get Shorty." No surprise -the trial of so-called "Mafia Cops" Eppolito and Stephen Caracappa, heading into its third week, has fea­tured plenty of theatrics. 
The courtroom histrionics occasionally threaten to overshadow one of the most serious prosecutions in city history: a pair of top-echelon NYPD detectives accused of using their prized gold shields to kill eight people at the behest of a brutal mob underboss, Anthony 
"Gaspipe" Casso. 
Prosecutors allege Eppolito, 57, and Caracappa, 64, were partners in crime from 1979 to last year, when they were arrested in Las Vegas. They remain free on 
that 

$5 million bail. the Buffalo" and
Alphonse "Little AI" 

The first day of the late crime boss
D'Arco

testimony was Joe Bonanno.
mobster

punctuated with a screaming match between turncoat mobster Alphonse "Little Al" D'Arco and defense attorney Bruce Cutler, who made his reputa­tion defending the. late Gambino family boss John Gotti. 
"I don't know what the hell you're talking about," snapped the grandfatherly D'Arco, 73, his Brooklyn accent unaltered by 15 years in witness protection. "You're 

not making any sense to me." 
Cutler, his deep voice ris­ing, tried to ask another question: "Wouldn't you agree with me ... " 
"I wouldn't agree with you on anything!" shouted D'Arco, who was threatened with contempt by U.S. District Judge Jack B. Weinstein. That was before the 
"I wouldn't ing. The ex-detec­agree with tive, playing up his mob pedigree,
you on 

sprinkled the con­anything!" versation with mob names like "Jimmy 
the portly Eppolito, 
whose reputation was made as a street cop., comes to court in an ill-fit­ting sports coat. Caracappa -so thin he was known among fellow cops as "The Stick" -is fastidious in appearance, right down to his neatly trimmed mustache. 
The prosecution has already called its key wit­ness, confessed drug dealer Burton Kaplan, who spent four days testifying about the two detectives' brutal work on behalf of Luchese under­boss Casso. Kaplan implicat­ed the pair in a dozen homi­cides. 
Cross-examination of another prosecution witness, crooked accountant Steven Corso, focused on his theft of $5.3 million from an ex­employer to finance a life of what he called "girlfriends, jewelry and going out." 
It was Corso who recorded 
the conversations 
with Eppolito 
about film financ­
There was one 
witness whose tes­
timony tugged on heartstrings while going to the heart of the case: Pauline Pipitone, describing how her youngest son, 26-year­old Nicholas Guido, had come home for Christmas dinner in 1986. 
It was Guido's misfortune to share his name with a mobster involved in a botched hit on Casso. When the underboss wanted revenge, prosecutors said, he turned to. the two detectives -who provided an address for. the wrong Nicholas Guido. 
The innocent man was showing off his new car when he was shot by mob hit men. Pipitone was inside washing dishes. 
"I ran over to the car," she testified. "He was sitting up at the wheel. I went to touch his hand, and he must have just died. His finger­tips were cold." 


THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT 
Monday, March 27, 2006 

1~0. !lox n'J. Nut« llamt·, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre l>.unc, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CIIIEI' MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BliSINESS MANAGER M:nldie IIanna l'aul:t Garcia 
Assl~ MANAGING EDITOR: Ranta (;O[tUmukkala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Roher! <;;riflin 
NEWS EmTORS: Amanda Michaels Mary Kate Malone SPORTS EDITOR: Kl·n Fowler ScF.NF. Enrron: Hrian Doxtadcr SAINT MAllY'S EDITOR: Kelly Mt·dwn VIEWPOINT Em'Illll: )twy King PIIOTO EDITOR: Dus1in Menndla GllAI'IIICS EDITOR: Graham Ebctsch 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown An DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian AhhoiJ' SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Alt•jandro Ct•rbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsmt·@lnd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(';-?4) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.t·du 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@lnd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
('574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Obserwr is the independent, daily nt-wspaper published in prim and online by the s1udems of the llniwrsity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not govcrne<i by policies of the administration ofeither instillltion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisemems based on content. 
The m-ws is reported as accurately and objectively as possibk·. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Ediwr in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns prest•nt the views of the authors and not neces"trily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is availablno all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. I.etters to th<· Editor must be signed and mtl~t include conran inf(,rmation. 
Qu~tiom regarding Obsrrverpolzcirs should be dim·ted to F.ditor in ChiefMike GiUoorz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'l1u· (lll!ICrvcr (USJlS ';<)t) 1-4000) is pubiWwd Mondo~ytlunugh Fr1chly nc~pt during rllollll ~lltl VIICJii"'' pf!nmb. A~ubtui~•llml '''The ()i~M"rver i~ Sli)O ft•r nne "'adc:mic Y"•lfi $~"i fur IIUC'WITIRtet. 
Th~ Oh~rver is puhl,\hcd .u. POSTMASTEil Ol4 ~ourh Ouun~ ll.lil Send .tddrea.; ('f\rTectimu ro: Nurre D1mc. IN ·16'S~779 'fhe(lhscrver l'trit~dl(".il pmt~o; pllitl at Nocn: Dame r.o. s..l.n9 Jrkl Jtldmom&l nwhng otfKes 014 Somh Oiniu~ Ibll 
Norn-0.1mt, IN 4MS6-0n9 
nac Oh""rvcr ~'.a memhcr uf rhc As.\odarc:d Pr~. All n:prudu~uon nl(hts .arc tc:\c:tvc.;l 
The sex-politics connection 
Sex and politics: in the past hall'­ecntury. the two have become as inextrieably linked as green beer and Anwricanized religious holidays. For starters, there have been the publi­cized adultery cases 

or national figures it. Demoerats are too busy checking like .JFK. Bill if the condoms you keep in the jar by Clinton, and Gary the bed are good for the environ­Ilart. all of whom ment." (Author's note: As an intern managed to prove at "Meet the Prnss," I am legally obli­that in Washington, gated to inform you that our show is DC, pimpin' is, in in no way meant to be viewed as loft­l'aet, easy. There is wing pornography. Also, keeping a also t.he curious ten­jar of environmentally safe condoms dency or the reli­by your bed is a great way to make gious right to friends.) include sex-related In an interview with Tucker lngislation -like Carlson to elaborate upon this empir­

Joey 
Falco 
Forty Ounces 
gay marriagn and 
abortion laws-at 
the top or the national agenda. What's morn, as Bob Dole has so awkwardly shown in his infamous Viagra commercials, even retired 
politicians still try to keep a little spunk in their Washington 
Monuments after they leave the.DC spotlight. 
The real shocker in this twisted web of legislation and fornication, though, has been the onslaught of debate over sexual prowess and ide­ology that has captivated everyone from GQ magazine to MSNBC's brazen brandisher of bowties, Tucker Carlson. In other words, who does it better? Are Hepublicans really an elephant in the bedroom, or are Democrats the more desirable piece of ... donkey? The answer, according to most reliable sources available online (author's note: may God strike me down if I ever again refer to "feministing.com" as a reliable source), is actually quite surprising. 
"Republican men," reports an anonymous article in the latest edi­tion of GQ, "are infinitely better to have sex with." The woman who penned the piece, while seemingly employing her wealth of personal experience on the topic to give cre­dence to her assertions, explains that 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Zah111 House resolution out of context 
I am responding to Katie Perry's March 24 article contrasting dorm life and fraternities ("Domers defend dorm life at Notre Dame"). 
I dispute Perry's opening thesis that the Nov. 16 Student Senate Hesolution SS0506-14 Hecognizing Zahm I I all as Zahm House "demonstrated the desire some students have for an offi­cially recognized Greek system at Notre Dame." 
The resolution did not support that end. No references were made to fra­ternal or Greek life, either in the res­olution itself or in the question and answer period that followed its intro­duction. The minutes of the meeting support this claim. Furthermore, the "Democrats need something incredi­bly erotic -like 'Meet the Press'­to get revved up ... Republicans, on the othnr hand, don't even need Fox News to get it up. They understand that foreplay is about sex. And lots of 

ically suspicious article, GQ deputy editor Michael Hainey added, "I think she also makes the great point that 
... Hepublicans, they're great on dates, beeausn ... they'll just spend 
and ·they won't care about ... who 
pays the bill. They sort of spend, 
have a good time, and they'll worry about it later." This certainly explains the record deficits under 
President Bush-apparently he's just fattening up the federal budget and getting it drunk so that he can 
take it back to the Lincoln Bedroom to make sweet, fiscally irresponsible love to it while Laura is out of town. Still, you have to admit that 
Hepublicans at least have taste when they're committing adultery-even with the GOP's record defense spend­ing, Monica Lewinsky still outweighs Bush's budget by at least a buck fifty. 
For those (like myself) who are still not convinced, even ABC News' "Primetime" decided to weigh in on the debate in 2004 with a poll on the American public's views on sex. In the study, they found that "Republicans are around 10 points more likely than o·emocrats to think about sex daily, to be very satisfied with their ... sex lives, and to wear something sexy to spice things up." (Author's note: For anyone else who instantly pictured Dick Cheney quail 
scope of the resolution was limited to student recognition. It did not seck administrative or other approval for any Greek O'r fraternal status because there were no such references, desires or requests for Greek or fra­ternal status, implied or otherwise. 
Perry helps to justify her claim by stating, "Dillon senator Dan Bowen opposed the resolution and said Zahm was 'trying to leave the impression they're a fraternity."' Bowen followed that statement by invoking the memo­ry of George Kost<inza of Scinfeld fame and later informed the Senate of the gender inequality of only recog­nizing male dorms, much to the laughter of other senators. The min-hunting in snxy blaek lingerie. piPase wipn this image from your mind beforn proceeding. Thank you. l 
or course, thern is another side to this whole debate, and the same ABC News poll touched on it as well. 
Libnrals, they note, are far morn sexually adventurous. Conservatives, on the otlwr hand, are "less apt to have had rebound snx ... , to watch sexually explicit movies, to discuss their fantasies, to havo had sex out­doors, to have had sex on a f'irst date, or to have visited a porn site." 
Fortunately for ABC, their rnsoarch was also backnd up by a truly crndi­bln news source-the bloggers at "l'eministing.com"-who compiled a list of ten reasons why liberal men are better in bed. While mentioning most of these points in print would get me excommunicated from thn Church, the author did note, "A good liberal man realizes that what gons on in polities dons have an impaet on what goes on in the bedroom. This is in stark contrast to the Hepublican man who can't understand how his support for anti-ehoie~ politicians could possibly impact your sex life. While it may havn been fun I with I a Hepublican man the night before, it's his fault you'll have a hard time get­ting your Plan B prescription filled the next day." 
Touche. 
And the moral of the story? Screw economic policy, welfare reform or foreign affairs. When determining which party to vote for in the coming elections, think sex: Have you enjoyed the past six years of the same old Dick and Bush, or do you think it's time to get kinky and have rebound sex with a new piece of ... donkey? 
Joey Falco is a junior American Studies major. /lis column appears every other Monday. He can be contacted at jfalco@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those r~f The Observer. 
utcs of the meeting and the Nov. 17 edition of The Observer reflect this. Bowen's remarks were clearly in jest, not to be used as support for other claims. 
The Zahm House resolution only demonstrated Zahm's desire to be recognized for its unique place in the Notre Dame residential eulture. The assertion that Zahm was demonstrat­ing the desire of some students for a Greek system is out of context and wholly inaccurate. 
Pat Knapp junior Zahm Hall senator March 25 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Sports  OBSERVER POLL  
Nicole Zook  Ken Fowler  
Kelly Meehan Laura  Jay Fitzpatrick Fran Tolan  I low do you feel about people  
Baumgartner  Scene  other than college students  
Katie Kohler  Molly Griffin  viewing your Facebook profile?  
Viewpoint  
Margie Hosmonowski  Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m.  
Graphics  at www.ndsmcobserver.com  
James Hudy  



SubmitaLetter 
Ito the Editor at
.;j . . . . ·'··' ·. '· ,., ·.. . .
Iwww.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''The Kingdom of/leaven is not a place, but a state ofmind. " 
John Burroughs American essayist 

-~ ---------------------.----~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Monday, March 27, 2006 page 13 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Take action on dotnestic violence in OUR cotntnunity 
By the time you are finished reading legal, childcare and social service sup­administrators. I find this deeply disap­port. Please consider coming to the City this column, three people will have port. The system is set against the vic­pointing on two fronts. First, this year's Council meeting Tuesday at 5:30 p.m. been threatened or abused in the one tim. student government committed to at the County City Building at the place where we all expect to feel safest Last Thursday, over 80 members of improving relations with the communi­Corner of Jefferson and Lafayette in -our homes. According to the St. Joseph County came together for a ty. Does the lack of attendance at key downtown South Bend. National Council on Child Abuse and town hall meeting to discuss a new ini­community events help or hurt our Before we die, one in two of us will Family Violence, a woman, man or tiative to respond to this situation. The image with the community? Second, in know someone involved in domestic child is victimized by domestic violence U.S. Department of Justice and Office the recent debates over "The Vagina violence. We have a responsibility to every 15 seconds in America. Yet, you on Violence Against Women are piloting Monologues," both sides have been address this crisis of our families and won't find this issue competing for The President's Family Justice Center clear that they are open to explore communities. This is not a partisan newspaper headlines with strife in Iraq Initiative, allocating $20 million to help other ways to address violence against issue. This is not a race issue or a class or the latest corruption scandal. But establish 15 comprehensive domestic women. Why, then, didn't members of issue. This is not an issue of academic you should. violence victim support centers. In either side attend this meeting to face freedom. This is about communities 
In St. Joseph County alone, police are 2004, St. Joseph County was chosen the problems of domestic violence? Our coming together to support victims of asked to respond to approximately from 400 applicants and awarded $1.2 absence raises doubts about our sincer­domestic violence and their families, 8,000 domestic violence calls a year. million dollars to initiate a Family ity. recognizing their dignity and humanity However, the U.S. Department of Justice Center, providing "medical care, Yet, we still have a chance to do bet­and as one woman at last Thursday's Justice estimates that only 54 percent counseling, law enforcement, social ter. Tonight at 8 p.m., Pete Morgan, the meeting put it, standing together to say, of intimate partner violence is even services, employment assistance, and chair of the Family Justice Center "You are not alone, we are all here with reported. Thus, the number of incidents housing assistance together in one board, will speak at the Center for you." I hope members of the Notre of domestic violence in our own county location." Thursday saw the community Social Concerns about the initiative. Dame family agree. may be over 16,000. The challenges of come together to turn the tide on The center needs volunteers to help speaking out for victims are both psy­domestic violence. organize mailing lists and facilitating Jess Collado chological and physical. In times of cri­Yet, at this gathering, certain mem­publicity. Most pf all, the center needs senior sis, survivors may visit as many as 19 bers of the community were visibly us to personally contact our county Pasquerilla East Hall different offices for necessary medical, missing -Notre Dame students and council members to ask for their sup-March 23 

Residence hall system not to blame 
I think it's a shame that a number of Notre Dame students take a "victim mentality" and blame the rules and institutions (or lack thereof in the case of fraternities) of Notre Dame for certain deficiencies in their lives. Last time I checked. Notre Dame doesn't prevent men or women from asking each other out on actual dates. It isn't Notre Dame that pro­motes the Facebook and Instant Messenger as primary means of com­munic(!,tion. Parietals only begin at 12 
a.m. on weekdays-what is to blame for the so-called "distortion" from 9a.m.-12a.m.? Those who choose to blame parietals or single sex dorms for gender relations either don't real­ly want a relationship (which is fine) or laek the courage or ambition to actually get out in the world and develop one. 
Students wanting fraternities and sororities at Notre Dame are also dis­appointing. The residence hall I live in has dynamic commissions for every aspect of life: spiritual, liturgical, residence hall unity, community serv­ice, dances, sports, everything. Residence halls also offer the oppor­tunity to join in the spirit of the hall or work to promote it more. Outside the hall there is the Center for Social Coneerns, Campus Ministry, intramu­ral sports, and a elub for every inter­est plus the resources to start a club if one desires. If a student like one of those quoted in the Greek life series doesn't find adequate resources to "get a life" and "a part of a communi­ty" on this campus, then it's not the University's fault. As college students, it's time to take personal re·sponsibili­ty to get what we want out of life. And if what you want out of life is just more out of control parties, I'm sure you can find those too, but I doesn't think the University needs to promote any institution that would help you meet that goal, especially here at the most prestigious Catholic university in the United States. 
Fellow students of Notre Dame, it is truly a privilege to go here. It is not the rules or institutions that are pre­venting you to seize the day. As a transfer student who got denied admission from the University the first time, I urge you to think about how many people wish they were attending your school and had your resources. Every minute you spend wishing things were different is a waste of time that you could be using the tremendous resources here to make yourself truly happy. Don't waste the gift of being a Domer. 
Amanda Golbabai junior Badin Hall March 24 

Greek life not for ND 
Just a comment as someone who tried desperately to get admitted to Notre Dame but did not (even as the son of an alum), this series of letters and com­ments about Greek life and some sup­port for it among some students scares me. As someone who attended two state universities for undergraduate and graduate school where the Greek sys­tem was particularly strong, I can promise you that the University resi­dence hall system produces far stronger bonds than those supposedly created by the Greek system. 
While the Greek system could have a positive place on a campus, I can prom­ise you that the former fraternity and sorority friends that I have will tell you that the Greek life really, in effect, did little for them other than to prevent them from making friends with a broad­er section of people. Most "former Greeks" that I know say that it was "a way to party" and little more. Those Notre Dame students who think that the Greek life ·is better either don't belong at Notre Dame or don't realize and appreciate that the grass is greener at Notre Dame. 
Calvin Colbert Dallas, TX 

''Fighting Irish'' inaccurate 
This letter is in response to the recent letters and articles which question the racist nature of the term 'Fighting Irish.' 
Make no mistake, the stereo­typing of the Irish people that exists at Notre Dame today is not only insulting and racist but por­trays a completely inaccurate representation of modern Ireland. For these reasons I sec­ond the view of Paul Richards that the "Fighting Irish" moniker is indeed offensive to Irish peo­ple ('"Fighting Irish' moniker found offensive," March 22). 
This year marks the 90th anniversary of the Easter Rising, the event that catalyzed the establishment of the Irish Free State. It is time for the Irish nation to reflect and acknowl­edge our country's origins, ori­gins rooted in a determined and dynamic struggle for emancipa­tion and sovereignty. The Irish men of 1916 envisioned a free and independent Ireland, one which indeed exists today. 
However, many of the econom­ic and politic realities of modern Ireland are contrary to this ideal of a principled and sovereign nation. Ireland's primary indus­try, the service industry, is com­pletely reliant on tourists, many of whom are American. Thus, our Tourist Board regularly per­petuates a vision of a mythical land of leprechauns and sham­rocks or a land of Guinness­imbibing drunks, since these reductive images appeal more to the foreign masses than a com­plete depiction of the Irish nation. Ironically, growing up in Ireland, I did not hear the term "leprechaun" after the age of nine, when I stopped reading children's stories. The "lep­rechaun" has little, if any, part in the realities of modern Ireland. Yet, our nation is so dependent on foreign tourists that we encourage the perpetuation .of this ridiculous image. We don't even object when it is considered a representation of Irish people drunkenly engaging in bar brawls. We have become so dependent on U.S. money that our leaders allow our nation's policies to be determined by the desires of the U.S. market and American politicians. We are right now struggling under a de­facto economie and political colo­nization. 
We can no longer stand for this. We can no longer compro­mise our nation's values or sub­due our people's voices in order to maintain the economic support of America. We have essentially sold our soul to the devil. Instead, let us spread the repre­sentation of the 'real' Ireland, a country with courageous history, a rich culture, pride in our national language and filled with Irish men and women who kneel at the alter of Croke Park and not at that of a financial God. Let us determine our political poli­cies based on our people's wishes and beliefs, and not on the desire for American financial support. 
Needless to say, I am Irish. I am also a graduate student and have studied at Notre Dame for the past two years. It has been, for the most part, an enjoyable experience. Indeed, my time here has been marred only by having to daily stomach the nauseating view of Ireland perpetuated by the "Fighting Irish" brand, the constant repetition of the stereo­typical associations of Irish with drunk, and the supposedly "authentic" leprechaun. 
While I acknowledge that Irish study programs offered here present different perspectives and work toward a more com­plete picture of Ireland, these goals are contradictory with the ridiculous "Fighting Irish" logo and carousing leprechaun. Don't fool yourselves into thinking that these representations are in any way authentic or that they do not offend Irish people. They are constant reminders of the dependence that our nation still has on foreign economic support and the ways that our leaders compromise national integrity in exchange for cold, hard, American cash. 
Sinead Howley graduate student March 23 

--.-----­
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 14 
Monday, March 27, 2006 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Top Hat' offers fantastic dancing, little plot 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Scene Critic 
Whnn is the story completely sacrificed for llw nntPrlainmenl value of a film? When Fred Astaire and Ginger Hogers join together on llw silvor sernon in Mark Sandrich's "Top llat." The five limns Astaire and Hognrs dance tognther drivn this lilrn forward and present its only rnason for existing -making it dif­ficult to find a plot. 
"Top llat" played at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC) Saturday as part of the I>PAC Classic 100 series. Tho story rnvolvns around Jerry Travnrs, playml by Frnd Astairn, and his romantic pursuit of Ginger Hogers' Dale Tremont. Mistaken identities ensue, and slaps on tho face pull the characters from London to Vnnice. 
Aside from the main characters, Horace Hardwick's butler Bates spies, and the Italian dress designer, Alberto Beddini, runs 
the leads -and they both dance beauti­fully. While Astaire steals the show as the better dancer, his voice leaves a bit to be desirod. The beautiful Hogers ­while an excellent dancer -truly shines when she sings. 
Perhaps the most famous scene of the film is the "Cheek to Cheek" dance sequence. The song was written by Irving Berlin and garnered an Academy Award nomination for best original song. This sequence sums up the film's themes of daneing and romance, as both are dis­played here. Astaire is appropriately suave while Hogers swoons. It may not be politically correct, but the relation­ship between the two adds a classic feel to the film. 
Two other memorable scenes occur near the opening of the film. When the characters of Travers and Tremont are first introduced, Travers wakes Tremont with his impressive dan-cing and then lulls her to sleep as he dances on sand above her room like a true gentleman. 
The next is when 


through the film a storm stands both
Top Hat
with his rapier of them on a gaze­and even sharper bo. This is the first sense of' gender time that Rogers roles. The char­displays her consid­acterization and erable dancing and 
Director: Mark Sandrich Writer: Allen Scott and Dwight Taylor
plot take a back­····-singing skills. 
seat to the the­Travers begins the atrics of the danc­dance and Tremont
Starring: Fred Astaire, Ginger Rogers, Edward Everett Hornton and Eric Blores 
ing that occurs follows his lead. She around every cor-ultimately ends up ncr. adding her own 
According to IMI>B.com, this was the parts of the dance in an elaborate and first film written speeilically with Fred obvious courtship scene where Travers Astairn and Ginger Hogers in mind as steals her heart. 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'Ballet Russes' entertains with real-life drama 
By MICHELLE FORDICE Scene Criric 
Filmmakers Dan Geller and Dayna (;oldlinn pwsnnl a beautiful documentary in "Ballet Husst~s." mvealing the way art can mold tho livPs of thoso it touches. Its detailed look into the world of ballot may occasionally be a bit rn uch for the aver­age viewer. but when "Ballet Husses" turns to tlw dancers themselvos it enrap­tures tho audienee. It manages to breatlw life into history and to bring "high" culture down to earth. 
"Ballet Husses" tells the stories of the dance troupes of tho early to mid-20th eentury that made up the Ballet Husses. The film traces the Ballet Husses phe­nonumon from its origins with I>iaghelev and his team that consisted of such famous artists as Nijinsky, their prime stirs amazement among the audience as it watches the stunning movements ~md bodies of these dancers. Ultimately. though, it is their voices deeades later that inspire the most atton­tion. 
From the interviews emerge characters that could not be more captivating if they were fictional. There is Nathalie Krassakova who says she "always want­ed to dance" and still giggles, even though she is noarly a century old, as she speaks of her marriage to a violinist that lasted just weeks. 
There is Irina Baranove who admits that she "newer wanted to dance," but her mother was never one to be dis­agreed with, so eventually it grew on her. There is Marc Platt who, after declaring he never would do it, allows his name to be "Hussianizod" into Platofl", so that he, the first American dancer, would fit 

Balanchine, in among the rest

Ballet Russes
Stravinsky, 
of the bilL Pieasso, Min) and The Ballet Matisse through Russes included its peak in the dancers from so 1930s and 1940s. many different
Director: Dan Geller and Danya Goldfine
It finally looks at places and situa­
Writer: Dan Geller and Danya Goldfine
its demise due to tions that no per­
Starring: Irina Baranove, Marc Platt, 
rising costs, sonality, from the
Nathalie Krassakova and Nina Novak stubborn egoist to 
the little girl yoarning for home, is left out. 
"Ballet Husses" reveals how art's efl"eets are never left behind. At the 2000 reunion of the Ballet Russes, partners who had not seen each other in years took up their old roles. This time they dance with a little more arthritis and re­enact the scenes that captivated their audience decades prior. Nearly all the veteran dancers teach dance today, even if they do so leaning on canes, and a few still perform in theatre. 


That "Ballet Russes" is a Zeitgeist (or "spirit of the times") lilm is exceptionally · fitting. The story of the Ballet Husses reflects the events of the decades it spans. The original Ballet Husses is known for being a group of Russian refugees who had escaped the Russian Revolutions and had never danced in Russia. The later Ballet Russes troupes flee as Hitler begins conquering Europe. Raven Wilkinson becomes the first African-American to be a part of a major ballet troupe and also the first to be forced to quit because of the overpower­ing racial tensions in the southern United Statesthat wouldn't let her perform. 
"Ballet Husses" is about more than just ballet. It tells the story of both the first half of the 20th century and a select group of dynamic and diverse people. It is a wonderful documentary that will make audiences laugh in delight and will inspire them through the determination and strength hidden inside such a deli­cate art form. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 
internal misman­agement, egos, love affairs and outside competition in the 1960s. 
Geller and Goldfine fuse together hazy archival footage and crisp present-day intorviews with the veteran dancers to makn a strong statement of the lasting efl"ect this troupe had on ballet and the pooplo who experionced it. The old film and photographs of these dancers in 
While the dancing is top notch throughout the film, the production value is not. The parts of the film that take place in London look like sets from an older lilm -appropriately glamorous while classically reserved. 
However, when the film shifts to Venice, the production value drops. The bridges and canals of Venice are sur­rounded by sets that look like they belong more in children's fantasy than a Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers film. While the acting and dancing does not suffer, this brings the film down from what it could be. 
The old saying about the two stars, "lie made her classy, while she made him sexy," applies to this 111m. Rogers brings the voice and very good dance skills, while Astaire plays the reserved· lover who steals the show with his danc­ing. The entertainment value is very high and the dancing excellent -but do not expect a particularly developed plot. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroedl@nd.edu 
-------~ -------~­

------------------------------------., 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Monday, March 27, 2006 
page 15 
DPAC REVIEW 
Success no 'Flook' for inventive Irish folk band 
By SEAN SWEANY 
Scene Writer 
The internationally acclaimed Anglo-Irish band "Flook" eaptivated the audience at the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC) Saturday night with their energetic tunes and melodies. The recipient of numerous interna­tional awards for Celtie folk musie, "Flook" played at Notre Dame as one of the final stops on its American tour. 
Sinee it was founded in 1995, "Flook" has delighted audiences with its innovative style of Celtic, Scottish and English folk music. The music revolves around two flute and whistle players, Sarah Allen and four-time 
· All-Ireland champion Brian Finnegan. They are joined by guitarist Ed Boyd and bodhran player John Joe Kelly. A bodhran is a traditional Irish drum. The foursome's imaginative ·use of instruments allows them to create a wide range of unique toe-tapping songs. "Flook" plays in the style of tradi­tional Irish music where one song is actually a set of several songs that now from one to another. Saturday's concert began with an energetic set of Irish reels entitled "Wrong Foot Forward." The piece was driven by the talented flautists and set the tempo for the evening. As the band performed more tunes, it became clear that the praise and acclai the Irish music community has heaped on "Flook" is well merited. 
The band creates a full, rich sound using only four performers that some bands cannot create with dozens of musicians. Perhaps the only fault with the band is the lack of a vocal­ist, but the sound that they create in their music, especially in self-written songs, more than makes up for the absence of lyrics. 
In addition to playing excellent music, "Flook" knows how to win over an audience. For a song called "Gone Fishing," the audience had the chance to try and name the tune being mimicked in the opening to the song. When one audience member figured out the song, she got to join "Flook" onstage and was rewarded with a "Flook" CD for singing the intro to "Hotel California." For anoth­er song called "Granny," the entire audience joined the band by sounding like trumpets to provide musical accompaniment to the band. 
"Flook" also had a humorous stage presence, led mostly by guitar player Ed Boyd. Boyd kept things lively between sets with his jokes and com­mentary about everything from being in Indiana to his grandmother. The other band members seemed to warm to the audience as the concert pro­gressed, especially after intermission. 
Not surprisingly, as the band became more at ease, it took its music to a higher level. The first song after intermission, called "Flutopia," featured Allen and Finnegan using their flutes in unconventional ways to produce catchy, staccato sounds. In a later song, "Flook" was joined by two Irish dancers, both of whom are Notre Dame students. The talented dancers mesmerized not only the audience but also the band members, who said they do not perform with dancers often. 

Not wanting to be left out of the action, the bodhran player Kelly, who seemingly always had a full beer in front of him, played an amazing drum solo. Kelly is regarded as one of-if not the best -bodhran players in the world and demonstrated his incredi-ble talent in his lengthy solo. As the band rejoined him, it ramped up the tempo once again in its final songs to bring the concert to an energetic close. A thunderous standing ovation from the audience brought "Flook," along with the Irish dancers, back to the stage for an exciting encore that left audience members tapping their toes all the way home. 

Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
DPAC REVIEW 
Glee Club spring concert blends modern, traditional 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN 
Assistant Scene Editor 
After their successful concert tour of California ovPr Spring Break the Glee Club performed their annual spring con­cert on Friday at the Leighton Concert Hall. 
The show opened with two African­inspired songs, "Welcome Song" and "Beautiful Rain," which provided an up­tempo opening to the show and show­cased the vocal abilities of the Glee Club well. 
The performance balanced classical pieces with more contemporary num­bers, and the songs tended to emerge in groups centered around a common musical theme. The songs crossed lines of language, style and arrangement, and allowed the diverse musical talent of the Glee Club, which included proficiency on musical instruments for some per­formers along with vocal ability, to shine. 
The show contained a number of somewhat more somber religious pieces. This group of songs began with the powerful "Dirge from Cymbeline," which featured a trumpet solo from Steve Feutz. From there the group moved on to Rachmaninoff's "Slava v vishnih Bogu" and the stirring "Absalon fiJi mi." The Gregorian chant "Alma redemptoris mater" finished out this section of the performance. 
A selection of Mozart's Masonic cho­ruses made up another section of the performance. A small symphony made up of club members performed during these pieces, which added some musical· diversity to the evening and highlighted the soaring nature of these pieces. "Ave Maria," a Glee Club standard, ended the first half of the evening's performance. 
Interspersed throughout the perform­ance were songs performed by small groups, which provided some musical diversity -as well as humor -to the evening. The small group called the Wookies chose a more contemporary piece and sang Huey Lewis and the News' "It's Alright." Later in the evening another group, the Axis of Octave, chose the classic "Somewhere Over the Rainbow." The final small group, the Undertones, performed the Matchbox 20 hit "3 a.m." 
A group of spirituals opened the sec­ond half of the show. The beautiful "Little Innoce-nt Lamb" and the joyous "Ye Ke Omo Mi" engaged the audience and immediately brought them back to the show after intermission. One of the highlights of the whole evening was the following songs, "Marry a Woman Uglier Than You," wh\ch added some humor to the show while still being vocally well-executed. 
The next section of the show featured a selection of Celtic songs, beginning with the slow and beautiful "She Moved Through the Fair." The next song was the gorgeous Gaelic song "Dulaman," which was followed by another Glee Club standard "Loch Lomand." The final Celtic song of the evening was the bois­terous "Bonnie Bielan' Laddie," which was arranged by current Glee Club member Tom Schreck. 
The biggest crowd-pleasers of the evening were, naturally, the final songs of the night. A selection of songs from the musical "The Music Man," which included "Trouble," "Lida Rose" and "76 Trombones," were one of the evening's highlights. "Trouble" allowed the group to showcase their humor skills once again, which provided some contrast to the love song "Lid a Rose." The final selection from the set, "76 Trombones" was a hugely entertaining song and revealed the unique barbershop spin that the group gave to songs from a musical. 


Finally, the show moved towards its finish with the classic Irish tune "Danny Boy." The Glee Club finished with the three Notre Dame songs that close all of their shows -the Glee Club alma mater "Notre Dame, We Hail Thee," the University's alma mater "Notre Dame, Our Mother" and the University's fight song "The Notre Dame Victory March." 
The Glee Club's spring concert provid­ed a great blend of music that show­cased the group's skills effectively. The appropriate mix of slow songs with up­tempo ones and traditional music with more contemporary pieces made it an enjoyable performance for any and all audience members. 
Contact Molly Griff'm at mgriffi.n@nd.edu 
.-------­
Monday, March 27, 2006 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 

Redd leads as Mil-waukee defeats Toronto in overtirne 
Heserves Joe Smith had 19 week and LeBron James tookCavs outlast Rockets; points and Dan Gadzurie had 17 down the only NBA team he'd for Milwaukee, which was also yet to beat. .
T-Wolves beat Knicks 

playing without the injured Mo James sr.ored 36 points, Williams. Gadzuric added nine including the go-ahead dunk 
Associated Press 

rebounds. with 3:24 left In overtime, to 
MILWAUKEE-The bnst game "I am starting to play a little lead the Cavaliers to a victory of his NBA canwr couldn't save better. My confidence is coming," over the Houston Rockets on a lousy day for Charlie said Bell, who joined the Bucks Sunday. Villanunva. this season after playing over­Four days after hitting his first 
Villanunva scornd a career­seas. "I just try to make the best game-winner in the final sec­high 4H points, but the of it ber.ause you never know onds for a 120-118 overtime vic­Milwauknn Bucks got 35 points what is going to happen in the tory over Charlotte, James broke from Miehanl HPdd to beat the future. I am getting a chance to his five-game losing streak Toronto Hap tors 125-11 (J in go out there and show other against I Iouston. ovnrtinw Sunday. tnams and this team what I can The win is Cleveland's fifth 
That camn less than an hour do." straight and helps the Cavaliers af'tnr Connndicut, Villanueva's Bobby Simmons added 15 move r.loser to their first playoff' r.ollngn team, was upset by points for Milwaukee. lie was berth since 1998. c;norgn Mason in the NCM tour­quick to credit the bench, includ­"It was exciting," James said. nament. ing Toni Kukoc, who had nine "We did a great job. Yao's (Ming) 
"Hight now I am little disap­points, six rebounds and seven very talented and it's tough to pointed and frustrated," assists in 30 minutes. beat this team. To get a win on Villanueva said. "We lost. If we "It was an unbelievable efl'ort their court is even better." won, it would have made my for those guys," Simmons said. The Cavaliers were ahead night even bigger. UConn lost, The Bucks shot 55 percent and 103-101 when Damon Jones hit too. That's 0-for-2 for me." made 34 of 45 free throws to 12-the second of two free throws to 
Toronto played mur.h of the of-17 for Toronto. stretch the lead. way without injured All-Star Bosh entered play averaging Houston's Rafer Alston made Chris Bosh, but stayed in the 22.7 points and 9.4 rebounds. the first of two free throws with game bnhind Villanueva, who IIe played just 7 minutes before less than a second left and inten­shot 20-of-:~2 and had the high­injuring his left thumb while tionally missed the second one, est point total by an NBA rookie going after a loose ball with but the ball was thrown out of this season. teammate Pape Sow. X-rays bounds. 
But it was Hndd, Charlifl Bell were negative, and the injury The Rockets didn't lead in off's for the second consecutive bnen very similar to a lot of wins and tho Bueks who stoln the was listed as a mild sprain. overtime, but tied the game year after playing in the Western we had last year where we're show late. Bell filled in for the twice on baskets by Yao before Conference finals in 2004. not playing our best but we keep injured T.J. Ford and addfld a Cavaliers 104, Rockets 102 OT James' dunk. Asked if he would like to play battling, stay in the game and carnPr-high I H points and 11 The Cleveland Cavaliers got "Going through games like this with his former point guard, make the big plays in the end," assists in 47 minutes. their seeond overtime win of the should really help us to be able Garnett said: "I have no beef Chicago coach Seott Skiles said. 
to close it the right way," Cavs with Steph. I've never had a The win, coupled with coach Mike Brown said. "To exe­problem with Steph on the court. Philadelphia's loss to Indiana, cute it offensively and defensive­... You ask him, 'Can you play pulled Chicago within 1 1/2 ly at the end is huge." with me?"' games of the 76ers for the nighth 
Before the game, reporters and final Eastern Conference Timberwolves 98, Knicks 94 asked Marbury about reuniting playoff' spot. 
After the Minnesota with Garnett. The Bulls trailed 78-68 after Timberwolves avoided their "In New York? That'd be three quarters, but outscored biggest collapse in franchise his­great," he said. the Celtics 33-19 in the fourth to tory, Kevin Garnett made it clear What about in Minnesota? win their second straight after he doesn't want to go through "Nah." losing four in a row. another season like this one. Sunday's game was a typical It was the Bulls' sixth win this 
And both Garnett and Stephon one for Minnesota this season, season when trailing at the start Marbury said they would be save for the victory. The Wolves of the fourth quartnr. They won open to being reunited in the led by as many as 25 points 10 such games last year to make future -although neither seems through three quarters, only to the playoffs for the first time to want to change cities. be outscored 33-18 in the fourth. since Michael Jordan retired in 
''I've always said I'll be in Garnett had 21 points through 1998. Minnesota as long as they want three quarters and, with the Chicago improved to 2-0 since me," Garnett said after scoring Wolves leading by 19 heading Skiles took (;ordon and Chandler 26 points and grabbing 15 into the final period, looked like out of the starting lineup to help rebounds in the Wolves' victory he might get the fourth off. create a spark ofl' the bench. over Marbury and the New York Gordon scored 25 points, Knicks. "I don't think I can take Bulls 101, Celtics 97 Chandler had 21 rebounds and another one of these rebuilding With Ben Gordon and Tyson the Bulls outscornd New Orleans stages." Chandler coming otl' the bench, 27-17 in the fourth quarter 
It's been a frustrating season the Chicago Bulls are starting to Friday en route to a 96-82 win. for both Garnett and Marbury, recreate their formula from last "Coach was trying to shake it who played three seasons in year. up," said Chandler, who had 10 Minnesota together before an Luol Deng scored 20 points, points, 11 rebounds and four unhappy Marbury forced a trade Gordon added 13 of his 17 in the blocked shots -inr.luding three in 1999. Despite the league's fourth quarter, and the Bulls ral­in the fourth quarter. "He need­highest payroll, the Knicks are lied to beat the Boston Celtics ed some guys to shake things up, one of the worst teams. And the Sunday. and the last couple of games Wolves will likely miss the play-"The last two games have we've been able to provide that." 


CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
515 St.Joe: 7 bdrm,area of student  3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web ·  Furnished 4BR house near NO.  
WANTED  FoR SALE  rentals. $1200/mo. 574-250-7653 1-7 bdrm. homes starting@  site:mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary 574-993-220B or grooms@ourweb­ ADT,air,laundry,dishwash,base­ment,yrd.  PERSONAL  
$200/student, 24-hr.maint.,free pool  spot. net  2B7-4961.  
Summer Camp Counselor for  4 bdrm/2bth  tables, 1st mo.free. Call574-250­ UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
children w/disabilities.  newly remodeled house near campus.  7653 or visit bluegoldrentals.com Two story house completely remod- Just 1 block from campus! For lease. 4 brand new 3 bedroom con- TICKETS  not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs ·confidential support  
Must have strong work ethic  $B7,000.  eled 2003. Ready for immediate  dos ranging from $1500-$2200 per  or assistance, please call Sr. M.L  
and be interested in  220-B666.  occupancy or next school year. Off  month. 574-243-4554 ext.203. No  OAR. tix first 3 rows  Gude, esc at 631-7B19. For more  
making a difference in  street parking includes motion sen- utilities included.  & James Taylor.  information, see our bi-weekly ad in  
the life of a child.  FoR RENT  sor light for security. Four individual­ly locked bedrooms. central station  4 bdrm/2 bth house near campus.  Call 272-7233.  THE OBSERVER.  
$7-$11 hr., 35 hr/wk.  monitored security system, six  $1350. 220-B666.  TOP DOLLAR PAID  The Carriage House Dining Room is  
summer only. 5 sites in  WALK TO SCHOOL  blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop  FOR YOUR FOOTBALL  now accepting reservations for our  
Summit County, Ohio.  2-6 BEDROOM  in front of house. surrounded by  Beautiful 4bdrm house, 1.5 baths,  SEASONTIX.  annual Gala Graduation Event with  
Must enjoy outdoor activitie~.  HOMES  other student housing, Laundromat  CIA. Gas stove,microwave,fridge, &  PLEASE CALL 277-1659.  dinners served Friday, May 19;  
Visit www.akroncyo.org to  MMMRENTALS.COM  next door, .basement available for  WID. 2-car garage. Walk to NO.  Saturday, May 20 & Sunday, May  
download an application  532-140B  storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks,  $1.400/mo ($350 per room). 574­ THE BEST HOME IS NOW  21, 2006. Call (574)272-9220.  
from the Job Opportunities  Area houses and  etc., new furnace and central air,  277-1875.  AVAILABLE FOR THE  
link.  apartments  new kitchen including new stove  COMING SCHOOL YEAR  Individuals/Clubs: Sell I Love the  
EOE  for rent.  and refrigerator, large living room  Come live at the POTATO HOUSE.  IDEAL  Irish Flags Great for Dorms & activi- 
Log onto  for TV or entertaining, free trash  19237 Cleveland, close to NO.  FOR 3-6 STUDENTS  ties! Contact:  
Summer housemate. Call Claudia  MichianaRentals.com.  removal.  Call Giovanni  ALL THE AMENITIES  Shamrock@ilovetheirish.com or BOB  
@ 229-3678  Call 574-993-RENT (736B)  Call 2B9-4071.  5B6-405-8715.  2773097  943-8524. www.ILoveThelrish.com  







OUND THE NATION 
Monday, March 27,2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's \VIRE sERVICEs page 17 
NCAA BASKETBALL

NCAA Women's Division I Tennis Rankings 
team 
1 Stanford 2 NOTRE DAME 3 North Carolina 4 Southern Cal 5 Duke 6 Northwestern 7 Florida 8 ·Georgia Tech 
g 
California 10 Miami (Fl) 11 Texas 12 Arizona Slate 13 Vanderbilt 14 Pepperdine 15 Baylor 
.16 Harvard 17 UCLA 18 Wake Forest 19 TCU 20 long Beach State 21 vcu 22 Michigan 23 Arizona 24 Georgia 25 Tennessee 

NCAA Men's Division I Tennis Rankings 
team 

1 Georgia 2 Pepperdine 3 Illinois 4 Duke 5 Mississippi 6 Stanford 7 florida 8 UCLA 9 Baylor 10 Washington 11 Texas 12 Ohio Slate Associated Press ty. first true outsider to crash yelling "George!" to the 13 Virginia Buoyed by a partisan the Final Four since Penn crowd's "Mason!" as he 14 North Carolina crowd and playing some 20 and Indiana State both got waited his turn to cut down 15 Clemson WASHINGTON -George miles from their campus, there in 1979. The Patriots, the net. Then he climbed 16 California Mason is no longer the cute George Mason rallied after whose at-large selection the ladder and worked the 17 Miami (fl) little underdog. The trailing by 12 late in the was roundly criticized; cel­scissors with a smile, then 18 NOTRE DAME Patriots, by golly, are going first half and nine early in ebrated after the final horn waved the net high in the 19 Louisville to the Final Four. the second. by standing on the press air to more cheers before 
20 vcu 

The suburban commuter They hit six straight 3-row table and waving their slipping the nylon around 
21 Arkansas 

school from Fairfax, Va., pointers in the second half, shirts to their fans. his neck. 
22 Georgia Tech 

beat top-seeded shot 5-for-6 in overtime Patriots guard Tony "I feel so good, through
23 TCU 

Connecticut 86-84 in over­and outrebounded UConn Skinn said coach Jim my own sadness, for Jim 
24 LSU 

time Sunday in the 37-34 even though the Larranaga fired up his Larranaga," UConn coach
25 Wake Forest 

Washington Regional final, Huskies have three starters players by telling them that Jim Calhoun said. "Playing ending the stranglehold taller than any of the UConn's players didn't even at that level is not easy. I that big-time programs Patriots' frontcourt play­know which conference can only imagine the feel­have enjoyed for 27 years ers. George Mason is in. ing they must have on thatFencing Coaches' in college basketball's The Patriots became the "That's a little bit of dis­campus, in that locker Association Rankings biggest showcase. second double-digit seed to respect," Skinn said. room .... It's something They lacked in ~ize, ath­make the Final Four, "Coach told us the CAA they probably never imag­
Men's Women's leticism and history rela­matching LSU's run, also as stands for 'Connecticut ined. We've imagined it, 1 Ohio Slate 1 NOTRE DAME tive to their opponent, but an 11th seed, in 1986. Assassin Association."' and we've done it. They 2 NOTRE DAME 2 Penn State the 11th-seeded Patriots The Colonial Athletic Larranaga led one of the could never have imagined 3 Penn State 3 Harvard made up for it with tenaci-. Association team is the school's familiar chants, it." 4 Harvard 4 St. John's {NY) 5 St. John's (NY) 5 Columbia 6 Columbia 6 Northwestern 7 Stanford 7 Pennsylvania IN BRIEF 8 Princeton 8 Duke 9 Pennsylvania 9 Princeton 
Dolphins show interest in Ames wins The Players Busch outduels Kenseth to
10 North Carolina 10 0hioState 
Vince Young Championship win Food City 500 
DAVIE, Fla. -Even though the PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. -An BRISTOL, Tenn. -Kurt Busch's Miami Dolphins now have ·Daunte embarrassing loss to Tiger Woods is friend and former teammate was in Culpepper, they're still interested in in the past. A trip to the Masters his way. So Busch banged Matt Vince Young. might not be in his future. All that Kenseth aside -the first of two hard 
The University of Texas quarter­mattered to Stephen Ames was play­shoves Kenseth received -to win
around the dial 
back is scheduled to pay the ing the best round of his life to over­yet another race at Bristol Motor Dolphins a visit April 9-10. whelm the best players in golf Speedway.
WOMEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 
Young is among some 20 to 25 Sunday in The Players Opinions differed after if Busch's Regional Final Games (Teams TBA), draft prospects expected to visit Championship. brash bump with four laps to go 
7 p.m. and 9 p.m. ESPN Miami. The Dolphins are in the mar­A month after making fun of Sunday in the Food City 500 was out ket for a young quarterback to Woods, Ames won like him. of line. groom while serving as an under­He hit impeccable iron shots to "We had to muscle past Matt
NHL 

study to Culpepper, ac-quired from build a big lead on the treacherous Kenseth," Busch shrugged. "He's a
Detroit at St. Louis, 

the Minnesota Vikings in a trade TPC at Sawgrass, then let everyone good friend of mine, but he'll be OK 8 p.m. OLN March 14. collapse in a series of wrecks around with it." Los Angeles at Vancouver, With the 16th overall pick, Miami him. When he had fired at his last Uhh, not really, would likely need to trade up to flag, Ames had a S-under 67 -the "He knocked me out of the way,"
10:30 p.m. OLN 

obtain Young, touted as the potential best round of a demanding final Kenseth said. "I thought if he had a No. 1 choice. Should Young slide in round -and won by six shots over run on me, had me beat, that would
NBA 

the draft, there will still likely be two-time U.S. Open champion Retief have been OK. But he drove extra Indiana at Miami, plenty of competition for him. Every Goosen. hard and knocked me out of the way. 
7:30 p.m. NBATV NFL team except Washington was on "This is big," Ames said. "This is I thought it was a cheapshot." hand when he worked out characterized as the fifth major. I Busch disagreed, believing the Wednesday in Austin, Texas. beat the top players in the world." move was perfectly legal. 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, March 27, 2006 
NCAA WoMEN's BASKETBALL 
ACC chan1pion North Carolina edges past Boilermakers 
the clock before she blasted
Duke, Tennessee also 
toward the basket, used a pick from Camille Little to get some
advance to Elite Eight 
space and finished the Boilermakers off. 
Associated Press 
Erlana Larkins scored 23 

CLEVELAND -Ivory Latta points and Latta added 19, eight 
crumpled to the floor when the assists and four steals for the 
pain became unbearable. But by Tar Ileels. 
then, North Carolina's season Lindsay Wisdom-Hylton 
had bonn saved, rescued by the scored a season-high 21 and 
teeny, tenacious point guard Traore 17 for the Boilermakers, 
who refused to lose. who battled back from seven 
With her left leg cramping, points late in the second half 
Latt<t madn a driving layup with but came up short. 
2.S seconds left and top-ranked North Carolina moved on in the Tennessee 76, Rutgers 69 NCAA tournament with a 70-68 Pat Summitt is sick of seeing win Sunday over Purdue in the good friend C. Vivian Stringer in semifinals of the Cleveland March. Hegional. Tennessee's famed coach 
"She's a winner," Tar Heels knocked her fellow Hall of 
coach Sylvia llatchell said of Farner out of the NCAA tourna­
Latta. "She's just a tough little ment for the second straight 
kid and she finds a way to win." year Sunday, winning in the 
After flinging in her game­semifinals of the Cleveland winner, the 5-foot-6 Latta tum­Hegional. bled into North Carolina's Candace Parker scored 29 cheerleaders as Purdue points with six blocks, and inbounded the ball for a final Shanna Zolman hit five 3-point­chance at victory. Latta scram­ers for a career-high 29 points bled to her feet ncar the base­to lead Tennessee to its 21st line, grabbed her leg and regional final appearance. watched as Purdue's Katie Summitt took no joy though in Gearlds missed a 3-point heave beating Stringer. as time expired. "I hope we never see Rutgers 
The top-seeded Tar Ilcels (32-again in a regional tourna­
1) then surrounded a hunched­ment," Summitt said. "We've over Latta, who gingerly seen them so many times. It's dropped onto the court and tough to play against one of screamed in agony. In a matter your best friends." of seconds, an arena buzzing The matchup of two of the from another madcap finish in three winningest coaches in March went silent. women's basketball has gone 
Latta, tears rolling down her Summitt's way every time in the cheeks, laid on the floor for sev­postseason. The Scarlet Knights eral minutes before she was are 0-5 against the Lady Vols in carried to Carolina's locker the NCAA tournament, includ­room. The other Tar lleels ing a loss last season in the remained on the floor to hear regional final. the school's alma mater. not Tennessee (31-4) will play knowing the junior star's status Tuesday night against the win­for their regional final matchup ner of the other semifinal against Tennessee. between North Carolina and 
No worries, Tar Heel fans. Purdue. Latta is line. Summitt previ­
"''m a tough lit-ously called tle cookie," she Tennessee's No. 2 said with an ice "{Ivory Latta/ is a seed in the same bag soothing her region with top
winner. She's a 
sore calf. "It's overall seed North
tough little kid and
going to take a Carolina a "slap in lot to knock me she finds a way to the face." out of a game." Stringer didn't
win.
Latta said her hold back in her call' muscle criticism of the cramped as she Sylvia Hatchell NCAA after the went up for the Tar Heels coach game. layup, but that "They have been she'il be able to a joke with regards make the Tar to the selection," Heels' game with the second­Stringer said. "I didn't say that seeded Lady Vols, who beat earlier because I thought I'd get Hutgcrs 76-69 in the other sent to Alaska and they don't semifinal. have a regional there." 
If not for her dramatic basket, Parker, who last Sunday North Carolina might have been became the first woman to dunk on its way home. in an NCAA tournament game, 
The No. 4 seed Boilermakers showed she can do much more (26-71 pushed one of the tourna­than dunk. ment favorites to the brink of She scored 12 straight points elimination before Latta bailed during a critical run by the Lady her team out with a basket that Vols early in the second half. neither she nor Tar Heel fans The freshman hit jumpers, will soon forget. blocked shots and at times 
"When I went up for the shot I brought the ball up the floor, was cramping in the air," she looking a little bit like NBA star said. "I was trying to figure out LeBron James in his own build­how I was going to come down. ing. I'd say it's one of the biggest "I've only dunked in one shots I've made. I just love to game. I don't want that to be my win. We're not ready to go identity," Parker said. "I want to home. We work too hard." be known for an all-around 
Latta was unaware that her game." injury had quieted more than Tennessee improved to 21 ~4 8,000 fans in an instant. in the regional semifinals in its 
"I was crying too hard," she 25th straight appearance. The said. "I was cramping so bad." Lady Vols have not missed the 
Aya Traore's 15-foot jumper regional finals since 2001. with 29.6 seconds to go tied it at As Summitt left the floor, she 68 before North Carolina called stopped to kiss her son and her a timeout. On the final posses­mother, who is in a wheelchair. sion, Latta let some time run ofl' "One more mom. One more," said Summitt, who is seeking 

her seven national title and first 
since 1998. 
Matee Ajavon led Rutgers (27­

5) with 24 points and Cappie Pondexter, a Naismith player of the year finalist, scored 22 in her final game. 
"It's hard," Pondexter said in 
tears. ''I've just got to move on." 
Zolman, who has made three 
Final Four appearances and is 
Tennessee's career leader in 3­
pointers, shot 10-for-14 and 
played all 40 minutes. Parker 
and Zolman accounted for all 
but 18 of the Lady Vols' points. 
In the hallway waiting to begin their postgame news con­ference, Summitt rubbed Zolman's right shoulder. 
"Show off," she told her senior guard, whose final 3-pointer put the Lady Vols up 69-59 with 
4:26 left. "You were feeling it, 
huh?" "Yeah," Zolman said. Rutgers' defense, which led 
the nation by holding teams to 
51.1 points per game, disrupted Tennessee early, but the Lady Vols went on a 30-10 run to go up 54-41 with 10:46 remaining. 
"Candace Parker did a great job of attacking and it opened things up," Pondexter said. 
Stringer tried defending Parker with several different players and even tried some zone, but couldn't find an answer. 
Rutgers twice got within seven but Parker hit two free throws and added a right-handed scoop in the lane with 1:15 left to seal it. Tennessee's point total was the most allowed by Rutgers all season. 
Parker went 11-of-13 from the foul line, had five rebounds and frustrated the Scarlet Knights inside. 

Duke 86, Michigan State 61 
The smiles broke out on the Duke bench midway through the second half. And why not? This one was over by then. 
Monique Currie scored 17 points to lead top-seeded Duke to a win over Michigan State on Sunday night in the Bridgeport Regional semifinal. 
Duke (29-3) advanced to a regional final for the sixth time and will play either third-seed­ed Georgia or second-seeded Connecticut on Tuesday night. 
The Blue Devils had an answer for every Michigan State run early on -then ran away with the game in the second half and led by as many as 27 in the closing minutes. 

Currie was one of six Blue champs pushed their NCAA Devils in double figures. Alison winning streak in the state of Bales, Duke's career blocks Connecticut to 29 games. leader dominated inside and "Never in my basketball gave the Spartans (24-10) few career have I had the opportu­second chances. Seven of her nity that I just had with the ball eight rebounds were on the in my hands, with the game on 
defensive end and  the line and to be  
helped  get  the  able to make the  
Blue Devils' tran­sition off and run­ning with every  "/ don't know ifwe have played a  shot," Turner said. "There is no bet­ter feeling in the  
Michigan State miss. Duke had 18 points off the fast break and  team this year that was harder to play than Georgia was  world." T a s h a Humphrey led Georgia (23-9)  
outscored the Spartans 48-22 in the paint.  in every area ofthe game.  with 27 points, but picked up her fourth foul with  
Mistie Williams had 13 points and  Geno Auriemma  8:45 to play. In the closing minutes,  
a season-high four  Huskies coach  Turner  drove  
steals for the Blue  inside and scored  
Devils, who scored  six  points  on  

23 points off turnovers. Humphrey. Turner's layup with 
The inside combination of 1:42 left gave UConn a 71-68 Bales and Williams helped neu­lead. tralize Liz Shimek, MSU's career Cori Chambers tied it for the scoring and rebounding leader. Lady Bulldogs with a 3-pointer Shimek finished with five points. on Georgia's next possession. Victory Lucas-Perry had 17 Sherill Baker then gave the points to lead the Spartans, last Lady Bulldogs their first lead of year's NCAA runner-up. the half, making the second of 
Michigan State hung around two free throws to make it 72­for the first 10 minutes of the 71. game and was down by just a Ann Strother countered with a basket after a quick 7-2 run 3-pointer for UConn and the that got the Spartans fans into lead swung back the Huskies' the game. The Blue Devils way. But it didn't last long. With silenced them quickly with a 3-defenders looking inside for pointer from Jessica Foley and Humphrey, Chambers hit again poured it on with a 13-4 run, from 3-point range with 20.3 capped by another Foley 3-seconds left to silence the parti­pointer. san UConn crowd of 9,091. 
The Spartans had one more Mter a UConn timeout, Turner run in them as the first half got the ball on the right wing wound down. Lucas-Perry's hit and, unable to drive inside with a 3 with 35 seconds left to close two defenders blocking her way, out a 7-0 run and cut the deficit she fired up the winner. to five. At the final horn, Turner was 
But the Blue Devils came right mobbed by her teammates. back with a 3-pointer, this time Humphrey sank to her knees as from freshman Abby Waner in her team and coaches gathered the fmal seconds and took a 45-round her. 37 lead into the half. "I don't know if we have 
played a team this year that Connecticut 77, Georgia 75 was harder to play than Georgia Barbara Turner wasn't about was in every area of the game," to go home. UConn coach Geno Auriemma 
The Connecticut senior hit a said. "For us to get down 15 fadeaway 3-pointer with 1.8 and come back and win the seconds left and two defenders game, I feel really good about on her to give the second-seed­these two !Turner and Strother] ed Huskies a win Sunday night because of the time and effort over Georgia in the Bridgeport that they put into it." Regional semifinal. It was Humphrey the Lady 
They will play top-seeded Bulldogs had turned to time and Duke in the regional final again throughout the season to Tuesday night. shore up a depleted front court. 
Turner had a career-high 31 Before the season even started, points and nine rebounds to the Lady Bulldogs lost two post help the Huskies (32-4) rally players to knee injuries and two from 15 points down. With the more left the program for per­victory, the five-time national sonal reason. 
-~-----------------------------------------------c--:--------c~--------------------....., 
Monday, March 27, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Florida knocks off top-seed Villanova 75-62 
No. 3-seed Gators face George Mason in Final Four in Indianapolis 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS -Joakim Noah and the rest of Florida's sophomores were simply too strong for the last No. 1 seed standing. 
With a 75-62 win over top­seeded Villanova in the Minneapolis Hegional on Sunday, the young Gators are going to the Final Four a lot sooner than anyone would have thought. 
Noah had 21 points, 15 rebounds and five blocks to lead the third-seeded Gators. 
Fellow sophomore AI Hurford added 12 points and 15 rebounds and Taurean Green scored 19 points for the Gators (31-6), 
Florida will play No. 11 seed George Mason next Saturday in the national semifinals in Indianapolis. 
This marks the first time since the field was expanded to 64 teams in 1985 that no top-seed­ed team advanced to the Final Four, and the second time in tournament history. 
Villanova star Randy Foye fouled out with 28.9 seconds left and walked slowly to the bench to hug his coaches and team­mates with tears streaming down his face. 
He carried the Wildcats (28-5) for the second time in three days, without any help from fel­low senior Allan Ray. 
Foye had 25 points. Ray scored 11 points, on 5-for-19 shooting. 
This was Florida's eighth straight trip to the NCAA tourna­ment under coach Billy Donovan, but so many of his pre­vious teams -minus the nation­al runner-up in 2000 -failed to fulfill their potential in the post­season. 
This tight group of sopho­mores, led by the fiery, pony­tailed Noah, vowed to change that after bonding during their 

.... ,.,:;: ~.:+ l<::: '(:'' f; $!=i~ :<·.;:: ;:::t ~-k 
L '*-"h--,~~ h.-*'\--~~-~~~?&~~-s li~ ···{·~ r ·~ ~ ~ .r§.~~ ~ ...:::t ~ ~-~ 

first few weeks on campus. Villanova, the Gators are a Noah and Hurford were too Despite a second-round loss in nation-best 15-1 in March over tough for the Wildcats to use the tournament last year to the last two years. much of the flashy, four-guard 
..icO•···n·. .!. ;. ••n••,.f f!,.,,~·'~.!hF• .,.,,,,-..,F:'X"I 'S··:"<. :•.,:y
H 

~] ,::. ~ ~.... ~ '*....~r-_'IS-~~ ;:-·:%:__t~~---·-::: ':',.,.,,;, ~;f s "'""~:··H ~ ~)::a: f:.:".~,~~~.: "\P'~~W-3# ·1,.c•• n.,.;. 
lb. %Ell ~....$· ·:H t. -~~} 'Lnn U.n.,. If: ~ H4l''-"¥_--:::-~ 
1 .. r-t~:,~., it·· ~'--* r:=::: ~ ~-~-·r· >~$~-'%l8*:'-·.8· ®~~.;x-;:;~t J&-::: lli !~}•%'"'-'', I 
~ "':-*::-:-:r>= *:c: Hx~-·-~Jf'?\:r;::·::::=:"fu.,~::: ~ t•.&h~ t b&;n l~dm I '*'5~~-'&~· .. lf:~·1:e: 


f{,tr:::, -I :mh 
I''""' .• ! ! ·'" •·•$.. ~ ' 
,.~·~rt>ils i~ i*~i=~-:.."-ti.:'t:,~~ 

attack for which they are known. 
Foul trouble made it impossi­ble in the second half, as Foye drew his third at the 18-minute mark. 
Kyle Lowry picked up his fourth with 14 minutes left and Ray's third came soon after. 
A smooth, sweeping layup across the lane by Ray cut the Gators' lead to 54-47 with 7 1/2 minutes to go. 
But after a foul by Will Sheridan, a timeout, and two more free throws by Noah, it was a nine-point edge for Florida. 
The cap came when Horford, slowly backing down with the ball in the post as if he were Charles Barkley, spun and dropped an easy pass on the baseline to Noah -who pow­ered up and dunked it for a 66­54 lead with less than 3 1/2 min­utes left. 
Before that, every time the Gators opened up a healthy lead the Wildcats came right back . 
Ray picked up an early techni­cal foul during a brief tiff for holding the ball in the face of Florida's Walter Hodge. 
And the Wildcats lost some energy after that -falling behind by as many as 12. 
A foul by Ray a little later in the half sent him to the bench, and put Green on the line for three shots. 
Green made two of them to give the Gators a 31-21 lead with 5:46 left before halftime. 
Despite shooting 21 percent from the field (8-for-38), Villanova refused to limp into the locker room with a double­digit deficit -as it did two days before in a third-round win over Boston College. 
Florida became a bit careless, started getting frustrated with the officials and struggled when the Wildcats used their full-court zone press with Mike Nardi pes­tering Lee Humphrey -at the top. 


'I 
! I 
'' 
II 


ff.\:::r:=·=·,·i·· .. ® 
II 

1 ·-l!-::-··.·~·-t:,~ =«· *ij»r>·d-0b:e:··* tt... l.,,=.:.=:L~~::::: "~~~~·x:,f<:a{.: ;>; t fll< \t '},. {ty·:·:··r: ~ 1r.;: <t}~:·········: ":( .... ·.·.~ t:·::,: :,: ..}i .,):.,. .:. ~ 


'-*A~* ··-····:a:·:··) ~, s::::-,, "''~t .. p:.:::;::-·-a:H·::v::·"'"'+"'• f -:-==:-"-:>.·:'<-:•" :i=p =~-:~)""%. p···:; <>~~..;r· L ~ "{lli'"'1~~ ~-···=·?:'··· ·.O::·ji 




page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, March 27, 2006 
r 
NCAA WOMEN'S HOCKEY 
Wisconsin wins first NCAA title 
WOMEN'S CREW 

Irish take 6 of 7 in Lubbers Cup 
Martin Stone said. "J\s long as The Irish rowers believe their
Notre Danze wins in 
there's a raee, this team will strong effort in Michigan has spite ofharsh weather row. We just have to worry hfllped them gear up for their about our own performance." next event. Official race times were "This· was dp,finitely a good
By FRAN TOLAN 

unavailable warm-up for [the Spons Writer 
Sunday night. San Diego The Lubbers Classic]." said
"We just have to

Notrn Dame dominated the Cup was the freshman Elli l.ubbnrs Cup regatta in Grand team's last race prepare well and Greybar, who Hapids, Mieh. Saturday, winning before heading not worry so much helped the Irish six of' the s1wnn races in whieh west to compete finish first in the
about the other 

Irish boats competed. in the San Diego second varsity­
teams."

!\mid rain and hail during the Classie next week­eight and first races, the Irish recorded victo­end. That regatta novice-eight races. ries in the varsity-night, second will feature seven Martin Stone "And, as well as varsity-eight, varsity-four, third squads that began we rowfld, we def­
Irish coach

varsity-four, novice-eight and the year in the initely feel like second novice-eight competi­national top-20. we'll do a good job tions. Notre Dame rowers also "It should call for some fierce next weekend. We're all looking plaend second in the second racing," Stone said of the event. forward to it." varsity four competition. "We just have to prepare well 
"The weather is what it is and and not worry so much about Contact Fran Tolan at we can't change it," Irish coach the other teams." ftolan@nd.edu 
Vetter, Badgers defeat Gophers in Minnesota 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS -Jessie Vetter and Jinelle Zaugg teamed to help Wisconsin win its first NCAA women's hockey title Sunday. 
Vetter made 32 saves for sec­ond straight shutout in the Frozen Four and Zaugg had two power-play goals in the Badgers' 3-0 victory over Minnesota on Sunday. 
Vetter, who beat St. Lawrence 1-0 in the semifinals on Friday, 
was selected the tournament's most valuable player. The freshman l'inishBd the season with five shutouts. 
"I made the lirst save in every period, and that really got me into the game," Vetter said. 
"I was a little more relaxed in the last few minut11s with the 3­0 lead, but we all defp,nded really well." 
With the win, the Badgers (36-4-1) claimed the school's first women's NCM title since the cross country team won in 1985. 
Zaugg opened the scoring midway through the lirst peri­od, tapping in a rebound. 

IRL 
Rookie Paul Dana dies in practice lap crash 
High speed collision kills racer in wannups 
Associated Press IIOMESTEJ\D, Fla. -Paul 
Dana was an up-and-coming 
rookie driver living his dream, a 
former motorsports journalist 
who was hours away Sunday 
from beginning his most promis­
ing season yet. 
Tlwn, before the green f'lag 

flew, sonwthing went terribly, 
inexplicably wrong. 
While streaking around the llomnstnad-Miami Spnedway oval during a warmup session, Dana failnd to notice that anoth­er ear had spun to a stop, slam­ming into it at dose to 200 mph. Two hours aftpr his shattered <~ar canw to a rest, th11 30-year­old Dana was pronounced dead at a hospital. 
"Obviously, this is a very black day /(w us," team owner Bobby Hahal said. "This is a great tragPdy." 
Dana b1dievnd he had 11nally gottnn his big b'reak in the months bnfore the season-opnn­ing IHL IndyCar Series raen horn. J\f'tPr a string of modest success­ns rising through racing's ranks, hn had seeun~d a ride with the elite Hahal Letterman Racing ­the same team that fields IHL phenom Danica Patrick and Indianapolis 500 winner Buddy Hico. 
Patrick and Hiee did not run Sunday, but the race went on as planned, with defBnding Indy 500 and IHL points champion Dan Wheldon beating llclio Castroneves by a nose conn. 
If the drivers had any jitters going into thB race, it didn't show by the end -Wheldon and Castroneves carried off a side­by-side, tire-bumping duel in the final laps en route to the thrilling lin ish. 
"Our thoughl'> and prayers ar11 with thn Dana family and all of Hahal Letterman racing," said Whnldon, who ran the race with Dana's No. 17 on his side pod. "It's a very, very sad day. I think hopefully we put on a good race." 
Two days before his death ­the lirst in the IHL in three years -Dana was strolling through the paddock, shaking hands and signing autographs. 
"I can't wait to get started because I want to prove to every­one that I can do the job," Dana 
told a longtime acquaintance. 
''I'm feeling good and I know I 
can race with these guys. And 
now I've got great equipment." 
Dana's wife, Tonya, was in 

Indianapolis, where the couple 
lived. and was notified or her 
husband's death while attending 
a church service. 
Dana, who began his career in 

Formula Fords and worked his 
way up through the ranks, was 
known as a strong self promoter. 
lie got his new ridfl by bringing 
the Ethanol sponsorship to the 
Hahal Letterman team over the 
winter. 
Still, the wreck might have b11en the result of a rookie mis­take by Dana, whose previous IHL experience included just thnw races last season. Moments into the 30-minute warmup, Ed Carpenter, grandson of IHL founder Tony George, crashed in turn two and went spinning down the racetrack. 
Yellow lights came on around the track, and several ears could be scnn slowing, some of which avoided Carpenter's ear. But Dana's ear kept its speed, pass­ing Buddy Lazier and Scott Sharp. 
"lie carried way too much speed in and wasn't aware of what was going on around him," Lazier said. 
Seconds later, Dana's Honda­powered Panoz slammed into Carpent.er's Dallara-Honda at nearly full speed -about 200 mph. 
Dana's car nearly split in half. The ehassis flew about 6 feet ofT the ground and pieces were strewn down the track. It nearly turned over, but landed on its wheels before sliding to a halt. 
"I really don't know at this point what happened or who was at fault," said Georg11, who founded the IRL in 1995. "It's just a real shame. I don't know that it was inexperience. I don't want to say anything about that." 
Both drivers were f'lown by helicopter to a Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami, where Dana was pronounced dead about two hours after the 10:03 a.m. crash. IHL ollicials said tests revealed no injuries to Carpenter, but the 25-year-old third-year driver was kept ov11rnight for observa­tion. 
Dana's previous three IHL races with Ethanol llemelgarn Haeing came at the start of the 2005 season. He finished a sea­son-best 1Oth at Homestead, but his year ended in May when he sustained a broken back while practicing for the Indianapolis 500. 
There was no immediate explanation for Dana's failure to slow down several seconds after the yellow lights came on around the track beeaus~1 of Carpenter's crash. 
"That's just the first time of the weekend that we got all 20 cars on the track at the same time," said lHL president Brian Barnhart. "Ed had his problem in turn two initially. The yellow lights were called immediately and all systems function11d prop­erly. It's just a busy time out there, with a lot of cars and a lot of traffic." 

Rahal, co-owner of the Rahal Letterman team, said he knew of no problem with communica­tions. 
"The spotter made clear the incident," Hahal said. "From what I could see, there was a car on the outside. Paul was just passing or had just passed, but I think it would be conjecture and probably very irresponsible for me to try to dissect as to why what happened, happened. But there was no problem with com­munication." 
The Hahal Letterman team withdrew Patrick and Hice from the Toyota Indy 300, and a moment of sil11nce was obsnrved before the start of the 300-mile race. Otherwise, the preraen cer­emonies, induding the introduc­tion of the remaining 17 drivers, went according to schedule. 
Several drivers dedieated their race to Dana, but the fatality did­n't slow them down a bit. The erowd was on its feet for the final 20 laps and the spectacular finish. The winning margin of 0.0147-seconds was the ninth closest finish in league history, and there w11re no s11rious aeei­dents in the race. 



It's possible at St. John's University-the only· American University that offers this unique opportunity for graduate study. Whether you are interested in pursuing an 
M.B.A. degree in International Finance, International Business or Marketing Management, or an M.A. degree in Government and Politics with a specialization in International Relations, our expert professors and the Eternal City ' itself, will help you prepare for the global arena. 

Intereste(l'? 
Learn More info@stjohns.edu 
www.stjohns.edu/learnmore/00200.sju 
Tel (212) 81 5-9216 Ext. 2 


Monday, March 27, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
WTA 


Maures111o, Craybas to face off in 5th round 
No. 2 Clijsters, No. 3 Henin-Hardenne fall 
Associated Press 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. -The lone American woman left at the Nasdaq-100 Open is Jill Craybas, which says something about Amelie Mauresmo's title chances. 
With several top players absent or already eliminated, the No. 1-ranked Mauresmo eased into the fourth round by beating hobbled French compa­triot Marion Bartoli 6-4, 6-0 Sunday. 
Craybas knocked ofT a seeded opponent for the second day in a row, sweeping No. 27 Klara Koukalova 6-1, 6-2. That wasn't quite as monumental as her upset Saturday of defending champion Kim Clijsters, but it was pretty sweet for a 31-year­old tour veteran with one career title. 
While the 5-foot-3 Rhode Island native is still standing, fel­low Americans Serena and Venus Williams and Lindsay Davenport withdrew before the tournament. Two-time champion Martina Hingis was beaten Sunday by Svetlana Kuznetsova, and No. 2-seeded Clijsters and No. 3 Justine Henin-Hardenne lost their opening matches. 
The depleted draw leaves Mauresmo as a heavy favorite to reach the final for the first time. 
''I'm aware that Kim and Justine are out, but I'm really focusing on myself and what I have to do," Mauresmo said. 
Also avoiding the upset trend was No. 4 Maria Sharapova, who erased eight set points in the second set and beat Maria Elena Camerin 6-2, 7-6 (2). 
MEN'S SWIMMING 



Diver competes in NCAAs 
Freshman Bulfin lone Irish team member to dive at Nationals 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
Freshman diver Michael Bulfin became just the third Irish athlete in history to com­pete in the NCAA National Championship swimming and diving meet Thursday, finishing 18th and 27th in the prelimi­nary rounds of two events at the competition in Atlanta, Ga. 
He dove in the 1-meter and 3­meter events, with his better finish in the latter competition. 
"The atmosphere was amaz­ing," Bulfm said. "World records were being broken in the pool, and in the diving, well, I was in the midst of Olympic hopefuls. It was a lot of fun diving with those guys." 
He qualified for the meet two weeks ago at the Zone-C diving championships by placing fourth in the 3-meter dive, a fm­

ish that came as a surprise to would go to Nationals or not, him. than I was actually competing "Next year, my expectations [in Atlanta]." will increase a little now that I Bulfin's accomplishment was 
know making it to Nationals is possible," Bulfin said. "I hope to repeat get­ting back there and hopefully bring some points home." 
The top 16 
'7 hope to repeat getting back there and hopefully bring home some points., 
Michael Bulfin Irish freshman 
in each event scored points. The top eight qualified for the finals. 
Bulfin said he cannot yet grasp the importance of his per­formance. 
"I don't think it has really sunk in yet," he said. "I think I was more nervous [at the Zone­C meet], which determined if I the culmination of Notre Dame's season, which included a sec­ond consecutive Big East Championship and 13 Irish swim­mers and divers cap­turing All-Big East honors. 
"I think [Irish coach Tim Welsh] has increased his expecta­tions for me and the team in general, and 
hopefully we can meet those expectations," Bulfin said. 
"The team is in a transition where I think we will be sending more and more kids to Nationals each year." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 


FOR GAY &LESBIAN

STUDENTS 
The former "Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs" is expanding and seeking new undergraduate student members, regardless of sexualurientation. The newly structured council, the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students is now accepting applications. 
Applications are available in the Office of Student Affairs (316 Main Building) or on the Core Council web site http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ Applications are due by 5:00 p.m. on Tuesday, March 28. 2006, and can be submitted to the Office of Student Affairs. 
Please visit our web site for more information. 
TRACK & fiELD 
3 Irish athletes qualify for NCAA Regionals 
10 others earn berth to Big East Championship 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
Three Notre Dame competi­tors recorded NCAA Regional qualifying marks, while ten earned Big East Conference Championship qualifying spots at the NCAA Mideast Regional Saturday in Tucson, Ariz. 
Senior Ryan Postel and seniors Stacey Cowan and Emily Loomis all set regional qualifying marks. Postel's first place mark of 47.03 seconds in the 400­meter was the seventh fastest time in school history in the event. 
Cowan and Loomis both quali­fied in the women's high jump by clearing 5 feet, 8.75 inches. They finished third and fourth, respectively, after a jump-off. 
In addition to Postel, sopho­more Austin Wechter, freshman Mary Saxer, and freshman Alyissa Hasan also recorded times or distances in the top-10 in Notre Dame history. Wechter is now third in Notre Dame's record books with a personal best 52.67 seconds in the 400­meter hurdles. 
Saxer captured the ninth best mark in Irish history with a height of 12 feet, 1.5 inches in the pole vault, and Hasan's 4,665 _points in the heptathlon was the second most in program history. 
Junior Maryann Erigha won the women's 100 meters in 
11.67 seconds -just a hun­dredth of a second slower than her previous regional qualifying time -while junior Okechi Ogbuokiri finished eighth in the 200-meter dash with a Big East qualifying time of 24.72 seconds. 
Regional qualifier Laura Huarte, a senior who holds the school record in the javelin, fin­ished sixth in the pole vault. 
The Observer could not con­tact Irish coach Joe Piane Sunday. 
This week, part of the track team will trek west to the Stanford Invitational March 31 and April 1 while the rest of the team will compete in the Notre Dame Outdoor Opener at Moose Krause Stadium April 1. 
Contact Chris Hine 
chine@nd.edu 


B:a~e:b:all 
Tuesdag, march Z8@ S:OSplll 
vs, Valparaiso 
Wednesd~y, march Z, @ S:OSplll VS, Western michigan 

free ftdlllission for Students 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, March 27, 2006 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles w-in conference tnatch, fall to Aquinas 
Saint Mary's beats Adrian 9-0 in second League match of year 
Hy GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Wrirer 
Saint Mary's split two match­ns this wenkend, defeating <~on­l'eren<~e l'on Adrian but falling to Aquinas Collnge in a b;u~k­and-forth match. 
Tlw BPIIns dominated Adrian from start to linish Saturday, winning all nirw matches while never allowing the Saints to win more than thrne games in any set. In the IJ-0 win, Saint Mary's won II of the IX sots without allowing Adrian to win a ganw. 
Kelly McDavitt, Mary ~<:Iizabeth Campbell and Grace Gordon all won tlwir singles matdws (1-0. (1-0. 
But the Belles failed to eapi­taliZ<1 on their monHmtum from the morning, as Saint Mary's lost a dose match to Aquinas 
5-4. 
Four of the six singles mateh­ns wm1t to thren sPis -and the overall outeomn came down to a tiebreaker in the No. 3 dou­bles mateh. 
Ultimately, Campbell and Tara O'Brien fell short in a tiebreaknr. losing 9-8 (7 -4) to Karri Santusky and Kelly Magee. 
Saint Mary's won two of three doubles matches but captured just two of six singles points. 
Pic_:king up wins for the Belles in singles were Kristen Palombo and Campbell. The teams of Kelly McDavitt and Calie Muleahy, and Palombo and Gordon won the doubles matehes. 
Saint Mary's record for the season stands at 6-4 on the stmson. 
The win over Adrian moved Saint Mary's to 2-0 in confer­nncn play, as th1~ Belles prepare to facn the top conference foes in the coming weeks. 
The stretch of tough competi­tion begins Wednesday against confnrence rival llope. 
Belles coach Dee Stevenson could not be reached for com­ment Sunday. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
NBA 

Foyle and Dunleavy lead Warriors to w-in 
Sacramento has slim chance to get back in thick of playoff race 
Associated Press 
SACHAMENTO, Calif. -This isn't the first time the Golden State Warriors have looked like a playoll" team just after the post­Simson slipped out of reach. 
Still, if .Jason Hichardson and his t1mmmates maintain this lat­est latn-season surge, they've got a slim (;hance to put themselves right baek in the pressure of the playoll" raee. 
Adona! Foyle seon~d a season­high 18 points, Mike Dunleavy added 17 and the Warriors hung on to snap the Kings' 14-game home winning streak. beating Saeramnnto 90-X3 Sunday night li1r their sixth victory in their last eight games against their Northern Califim1ia rivals. 
Hkhardson addPd 16 points li1r the Warriors, who never trailed but blow a 16-point lead in the second half bnfore winning for the firth time in seven games overall. Hichardson struggled all night with 5-for-1 9 shooting, but hit a :{-pointer with I :OX to play and added two fhw throws in the final minute. 
As usual, the Warriors are playing splendidly now that their near-annual midseason slide is complete. Last season, Golden State won 14 of its final 18 games aftnr Baron Davis arrived in a deadlirw trade. • 
But this win put last-place c;oldnn State in lith plaen in the Wnstnrn Confnn~ncn, just four ganws lwhind nighth-plaen Sacramento with two games in hand. Surn, it's a long shot-but after 11 straight seasons out of the playoffs, the Warriors will tell themselvns just about anything. 
"We're still hoping," Hiehardson said. "The Kings have got the playoff spot we want. We know we've pretty much got t(~. run the table from hem on out. 
Davis sat out his fifth straight game with a sprained ankle that's limited him for several weeks, but the Warriors got sev­eral big shots from Derek Fisher, who scorod 16 of his 17 points in the second half. Foyle and Dunleavy carried Golden State through the first three quarters, but Fisher and Hichardson made the linal big baskets. 
"There's still a possibility, and that's what we're playing for," Fisher said of the postseason. "This game felt really good. This was some of the best balance we've had in a long time. It's nice to win one of these games with­out Jason having to score 99 points." 
Shareef Abdur-Rahim scored 24 points li1r the Kings, who had­n't ·lost at home since Jan. 8 against Indiana, pounding most of their opponents during their midseason resurgence into a playoff spot. They were 10-0 at Arco Arena with Hem Artest ­but the star forward's erratic 4­lilr-20 shooting was a big reason for this defeat. 
"We just have to see what we did back tlwn, and see what we're doing now," Artest said of the Kings' slump. "We're going to have to finish the last games oil" strong. I felt pretty good out them. Hight now we're not play­ing both ends of the floor each game, only sometimes." 
NHL 

Samsonov propels Oilers 
Edmonton beats the Rockies in tiebreaker to garner two points 
Associated Press 

DENVEH -Not even a muffed shot on a shootout scoring attempt could ruin the spirits of Edmonton's Hyan Smyth. 
Sergei Samsonov scored the lone shootout goal on the first attempt in the tiebreaker to help the Oilers beat Colorado 4-:{ on Sunday night, leaving the Avalanche tied for first place in thn Northwest Division. 
Arter Samsonov scored, Edmonton's Michael Peca and Smyth f'ailnd to get the puck past Avalanche goalie Peter Budaj. 
"We needed this one badly," Smyth said. "Hight now two points are better than one." 
Jarret Stoll and Steve Staios also scored in regulation for the Oilers, third in the division -two points behind Colorado and Calgary. 
"We all know what's going on here and we maintain get­ting points, especially teams that are right there with us," said Smyth, who scored the first goal of the game for Edmonton. "We had our chances and we still won in a shootout." 
The Oilers' Dwayne Holoson stopped Antti Laaksonen, Milan llejduk and .Joe Sakic in the shootout after making 31 saves in regulation and over­time. Oilers coach Craig MacTavish pondered using 

another goalie  a day after  
Edmonton  had  beaten  
Vancouver 3-2.  

"My mindset all along with Holoson was that I was going to take my reads from last night's game and determine how many shots he faeed, what the result was, and his makeup coming through that," MacTavish said. "After last night's game, I knew I was going to play him tonight." 
The Avalanche had much more to stew about, missing a chance to move past Calgary for first place in the division. 
"It's tough when you don't need a lot of goals to win and don't," Colorado coach .Joel 
Quenneville said. "But we did get three out or four points this weekend, and we're tied for first place." 
llejduk. Andrew Brunette and Jim Dowd seored goals for the Avalanehe. 
Stoll broke a 2-2 tie at 3:51 of the third period, deflecting a shot from Ham Torres between Budaj's pads. Dowd tied it at 3 with his fifth season, scoring ofT a 1:ross iee pass from Brad May. 
"It was just one of those things you just keep going," Dowel said. This is a pressure type team they want to go without giving up on the defen­sive side." 


Monday, March 27, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

Fifth-ranked Hofstra upends eleventh-ranked Notre Dallle 
6-0 Pride run puts away Irish in third 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame hung tough with No. 5 Hofstra for two quarters Saturday, but a 6-0 third-quarter run by the Pride put the game out of reach for the No. 11 Irish. 
The Irish were looking to snap Hofstra's four game wi.nning streak but couldn't recover from Hofstra's late surge and lost 13­
5. Hofstra also scored the game's final four goals. 
"We talked about how they're a streaky team," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan. "They can turn thme goals into six .... They play on emotions, and they score in bunches. We knew we had to be poised enough when they make a couple plays." 
Notre Dame played the Pride close throughout the first half, coming back from an early 3-0 first quarter deficit to tie the 
game at 3-3 in the second quar­
ter thanks to back-to-hack goals 
from senior midfielder Matt 
Karweck and the first of three 
goals by senior attack Brian 
Hubschmann. 
Pride senior attack Chris 
Unterstein scored one of his 
game-high four goals just before 
half to give Hofstra a 4-3 edge 
into the break. I-lubschmann 
responded with his second score 
less than a minute into the sec­
ond half to tie it at 4-4. But the 
Pride used a 9-2 second half 
advantage to seal the outcome in 
front of 4,363 fans at James M. 
Shuart Stadium -the biggest 
crowd Notre Dame has played in ·front of this season. 
"They're a very good team that 
is playing very well," Corrigan 
said. "They did what they need­
ed to be very successful. We did 
what we needed to for 30 min­
utes. They did it for the entire 60 
minutes." 
With face-off specialist Taylor 
Clagett missing his second 
straight game due to an injury 
sustained in a March 14 game against Villanova, Irish senior backup Steve Panos won only two of the 15 face-offs he took while splitting time with sopho­more defenseman Sean Dougherty. 
Winning 16 of 22 the game's face-offs, Hofstra controlled long possessions, sparking its second half run. 
"When they scored two or three in the quarter, we dido't handle that as well," Corrigan said. 
Notre Dame's failure to stay composed led to poor execution, Corrigan said, including ball handling mistakes that account­ed for seven failed clears of Notre Dame's 21 attempts -a performance not emblematic of the team's . 798 average on the year. 
Amid failed clears and lost face-offs, the Irish spent most of the game on defense, as the Pride offensive players respond­ed like a top-5 team, beating tired Irish defenders one-on-one and recording eight unassisted goals. 

The 13 goals were the most given up by the Irish this year. Hofstra's edge over the Irish in groundballs (14) and shots (17) were also the largest advantages Notre Dame has surrendered. 
"Defensively we didn't play as well in terms of team defense as we wanted to," Corrigan said. "Part of that credit goes to them. They made some plays." 
The Irish had just four third­quarter possessions, while Hofstra had six goals in the peri­od. 
The five Irish goals was the team's lowest total of the season, as only season goal leaders Hubschmann (18) and Karweck 
(13) put the ball in the net. 
Senior attack and preseason All-American Pat Walsh tallied one assist but suffered his sec­ond straight goalless game, after scoring six goals at Hofstra last year. 
"Limited possessions usually end up in limited goals," Walsh said. 'Things didn't go our way and in a limited possession game, you've got to cash in on the opportunities you've got. I didn't do that personally, and we didn't do that as a team." 
With eight games remaining in the season and eight more chances to play their way into postseason contention, Corrigan said he will not allow his team to dwell on Saturday's disappoint­ment. 
"I 'certainly hope our morale doesn't go down because we lost to a top five team on the road," he said. "We can't be that frag­ile." 
Notre Dame meets Brown Wednesday in the team's first home game after three straight on the road: 
Though Corrigan hopes to have Clagett back this week, he is not sure how long it will take him to recover. He does expect Clagett to return sometime this year -as well as injured sopho­more midfielder Mike Podgajny, who has missed the last three games. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish remain unbeaten after win against Iowa 
Juniors Christian and Catrina Thompson propel Notre Dame as team has yet to lose a doubles point this spring 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
The No. 2 Irish dominated another opponent Saturday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion, defeating No. 39 Iowa 6-1 to improve to 16-0 on the season -the best start in the pro­gram's history. Notre Dame is bles point for the 16th time in only one of three Division-! as many matches. The first teams that remain unbeaten. team to win for the Irish was 
"It is definitely exciting to be the No. 3 pairing of juniors playing our first [season] in Christian and Catrina college for a team that is doing Thompson. The All-American so well,"· freshman Katie Potts juniors downed the Hawkeyes' said. "Everyone has really Jacqueline Lee and Meg played their best tennis." Racette 8-2 at No. 1. 
Notre Dame claimed the dou-Playing at No. 2 for Notre 



Internationa·z Festival Week 06' 
~lt1arcft 26th-jlpri(1st 
Schedule of Events: www.nd.edu/ rvissa/festival.htm 
'Z.f<.-U'to:~-<.1 i"r !~·:Z.h"" U ["·-r; '* H u~u·::::~-~ B~~b..;.~~;ot:.:( ~ H-s·1o:ix·v.t>,;_.h .W..btiU)'" "'~'SUS*' Z.s~!..Ok 1-l~,a:.,.~l.~H wf i"lUt .ot-t.\Pt~.:: ~ ~ L·::. ~ ( &.r¥·::..r~·' ·~~ t;,:,u._....,,~,.t ¥-\~l ~ ...-, -=s ~;·r~-: • trf·;...'" Yt~ ..-. J.x.::;:-t' tu'*bt·.J:.W :¥ l~,lv\ '*' i:}L;".. -~ f··~~:o::¢-=:::··"~) ..'H $$.:::4 ·=.··~~~<=~ H..., H~~l~~~:.)><~ ~= <'1-=""U ljl: f"t*'I" '¥:' ~:o M~..:-~t~;.t~·:~1 i·~~') ....:V",'l,.lG:,"H ~ ir.e.Lt:::!t ~t:.~!:huf i·t~,.,;...;i.lt'.,t.;.::;:.;,lH ~ ls: ;u..u~.J''=l to-t...:a: Ct:I:.=::Jw· ?";::..UZ:i!>:=l:H ... ~ l..th:&.n (},{t;.: ...... l::W<u~~:z r~T''h.t...,...rhs 
Dame was the No. 29 duo of Iowa claimed its only point sophomore Brook Buck and during the contest with a 6-4, freshman Kelcy Tefft. The two­7-5 win from Lee over Tefft. some defeated Kayla Berry "She hit the ball hard and and Hillary Mintz 8-4. had big forehands," Tefft said. 
But the Irish failed to com­The last two wins for the 
plete the sweep  Irish  came  
with  a  loss at  from  Stastny  
No. 3. Seniors Kiki Stastny and captain  "It is definitely exciting to be playing our first  and Potts at Nos. 5 and 6. Stastny  
L a  u  r  e  n  [season] in college for a  defeated  
Connelly fell to  team that is doing so  Dowlin 6-3, 6-1  

the pairing of Krissy Dowlin and Milica Veselinovic after forcing a tiebreaker. 
" We ' v e played well in every match," Tefft said. 
In singles, No. 30 Catrina Thompson recorded her 11th victory in dual matches at No. 1 with a 6-1, 6-3 win over No. 33 Racette. 
No. 74 Christian Thompson began the match by dropping just one point to Mintz in the first set, but she needed a super-tiebreaker to secure the 6-1, 5-7, 1-0 (10-5) victory at No.2. 
Following at No. 3 was Buck who came back after losing the first set to top Veselinovic 2-6, 6-4, 1-0 (10-3). 
and Potts

well.'' 
topped Mere! 
Beelen 6-1, 6­
2.

Katie Potts 
"I just went

Irish freshman 
into the match 
confidently and 

found an early rhythm during the match," Potts said. 
Despite the challenges the Hawkeyes gave the Irish dur­ing the contest, the Irish were just glad to be playing at Eck. 
"It was just nice having a home match after being away for 11 days [during spring break]," Tefft said. 
The Irish head back to the road Tuesday when they face No. 12 Vanderbilt in Nashville, Tenn. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, March 27, 2006 
No-no 
continued from page 28 
so far this year, so we wanted to get her some work, and she did a great job," Gumpf said. 
With an EHA of 1.62 in her four appearances so far this year, Fumnmeler is likely to see more time. 
Sunday marked the second time Booth has pitched part of a no-hitter. The first came when she combined with 2005 gradu­ate Carrie Wisen last season. 
"She owned them today," Cumpf said. "Tiwy just couldn't touch her ch,nngeup." 
In the second game, Booth pitched in rnlief in extra innings to shut down the Broneos for a second time and earn her third save of' the s1mson for the Irish. 
"I felt pretty good today," Booth said. "It was good to con­nect with [catcher[ Erin [{;Iasco[. I feel like her and I made good stridns." 
Booth replaced Brittany Bargar on the mound in the bottom of' the eighth inning af'tl~r Bargar had allowed only three hits and one run through the first seven and a third. 

The Irish had trouble getting to Broncos pitcher Krysten Shumaker early in the game and the game was scoreless after seven innings. 
But in the top of the first extra frame, Alexandra Kotcheff came through with the hit that the Irish needed. Her one-out single up the middle found its way past the Western Michigan center fielder. and both Stephanie Brown and Stephanie Mola scored on the play. Mola led ofT the inning with her first career hit. 
Mola, KotchefT and Bargar ­all freshmen -continued to make a large impact for the Irish this season. 
"[The freshmen[ have really stepped up," Gumpf said. "I always have had confidence in them, and expected a lot from ever since they were recruited." 
Notrn Dame will play its first home game this Wednesday as Notre Dame takes on Bowling Green at Ivy Field. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles take s-weep of doubleheader in rain 
Team dominates Rose­Hulman in two games Saturday afternoon 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Sports Writer 

Forced to play in lnss than comfortable weather condi­
Belles focused better than their opponents. One minute both teams were dealing with the eold and snow and the next dealing with the hot sun. 
Grall said there was no one moment that secured the Belles' win, since everyone delivered impressive perform­ances across the board. 
"Our offense was key," Grall said. '"I:hey helped the confi­
NBA 


Seattle overco111es San Antonio 
SuperSonics guard drains a 3-pointer to secure crucial victory 
Associated Press 

SEATTLE -Ray Allen got the final say Sunday night in his escalating feud with San Antonio's Bruce Bowen. 
Allen's 3-pointer with 5.4 seconds left capped a 33-point performance and gave the Seattle SuperSonics a 106-102 win over the San Antonio Spurs. 
Earlier in the game, Allen was kicked in the back by Bowen while the two were lay­ing on the ground. Bowen was called for a technieal, while Allen had to be restrained by Hobert Swift and Nazi Mohammed. 
"It's just dirty basketball. It's plain, outright, dirty basket­ball," Allen said. "You guys have chronicled our battles over the last couple of years and I don't mind the competi­tion. someone going at me on both ends of the 11oor.... But when guys start throwing elbows and kick you when your down, that's dirty basket­ball and I don't respect guys like that." 
Afterward, Bowen was apologetic, admitting it was a mistake. Allen believes the Spurs' forward should be lined. 
"I did what I did and I'm sorry for that," Bowen said. "But there's nothing I can do to take it back." 
After Allen had his shot blocked out of bounds with 9 seconds left, Seattle inbounded to Johan Petro trailing 102­
100. The center then handed 
off to Allen and screened Bowen, giving Allen room to shoot over Tim Duncan. 
San Antonio still had a chance to keep its lead over Dallas in the race for the top spot in the Western Conference. After a timeout Manu Ginobili tried to pass to Duncan, but the ball was knocked away by Petro and over to Hashard Lewis, who was fouled with 1.6 left. Lewis made the first free throw, missed the second, but got the rebound after it was tipped by Allen. He was 
Portland on Friday. But the Spurs fell into a tie with Dallas for the best record in the Western Conference at 54-16. Ginobili and Tony Parker both finished with 17 points and Parker added 12 assists. 
Parker gave the Spurs a 102­100 lead with 35 seconds left on a baseline floater, capping a 9-0 run. 
On Seattle's next possession, Hidnour's pass was intercepted by Hobert Ilorry, but Horry fell out of bounds before calling timeout, giving Seattle posses­
sion with 13 sec­

fouled with 0.3 onds left. 
"f don't mind the 
left and made "We just need­
competition, someone
both attempts. ed to call time­A I I e n going at me on both out," San rebounded from Antonio coach
ends ofthe floor. ... 
two subpar per­Gregg Popovich
But when guys start
formances mak­said. "We can ing live 3-point­throwing elbows and never put that in ers. In his previ­kick you when your a referee's 
ous two games, hands to eall a
down, that's dirty 
Allen had push or not." missed 23 of 33 basketball and I don't Trailing 100­shots. but was respect guys like 93 with 3:12 
13-for-23 lel't, the Spurs
that."

against the scored seven Spurs and found straight to pull his ·stroke Ray Allen ev1m at 100 on against the suf­SuperSonics guard Ginobili's 
focating, physi­cal defense of San Antonio's Bowen. 
Seattle made 10 of 16 3­point attempts. Luke Ridnour added 19 points and seven assists and Lewis had 16 points for the Sonics. 
"I don't want to get caught up in those little battles where I'm out there angry, trying to get him back," Allen said. "I just want to make the right plays, continue to be aggres­sive ... and not layoff." 
Duncan led the Spurs with 28 points, rebounding from a season-low six against 
reverse layup with 1:12 remaining. llorry started the run with a 3-point­er and Bowen added a short jumper. while Seattle turned the ball OVI)r twiee. 
"We did a good job to light baek into it," Duncan said. "We got tho stops and jus made too many mistakes down the stretch." 
Bowen finished with 12 points and Ilorry scored 10 ofT the bnnch for San Antonio. Chris Wileox scored 14 for Seattle and Petro had six points and four rebounds in the fourth quarter. 

tions, the Belles were able to dence of our pitchers to go out both physically and mentally and get the job done." outplay Hose-Hulman Saturday Freshman Kristin Ainram in Terre Ilautn. Ind., as Saint brought heat from the mound Mary's swept the Engineers in as she helped Saint Mary's a doubleheader on the road. garner a 15-1 win in the sec­
"We went in knowing that ond game. Amram. last week's 
the  team  who  athlete  of  the  
was  mentally  week  at  Saint  
together was who was going to r.omn of' with a win. senior  "Our offense was key. They helped the confi­dence ofour pitchers  Mary's, grabbed her fourth career win at Terre Haute.  
Bridget Grall. said. Grall led the  to go out and get the job done."  Her success on the mound was met by stellar  
Bolles from the mound in their  Bridget Grall  offensive per­formances from  
dominating 10-1  Belles pitcher  the Belles.  
win  over  Hose­ High scoring  
IIulman.  marked  the  

Margaret Kelly brought in the fourth inning for the Belles. sole run for the Engineers in Junior Sarah Meisle homered, the bottom of the second off driving in two runs. Laura Megan Messer's fly-out to right lleline also collected two RBis, field. adding to the nine runs the 
The Belles' ability to keep Belles secured that inning. their minds on "the game Coach Erin Sullivan praised allowed them to turn in strong her team for its ability to con­oiTnnsive performances, Grall tinue on a successful run. said. 
The weather varied through­Contact Deirdre K.rasula at out tho day. but Grall said the dkrasula@nd.edu 
FLY FC)R FREE NEXT \\'"EEl<! 
!i )'Ow •li f'M!f drramed r.l bemg bchird the r::ml!uls o! ar: airuLHw, thr:t a. ¥(lUi ch•:tt~tt 11.1 i1rtd out w"lat it's reat:f h~e. 
t\ Mi!r:ne Cmps pilct 1-s com il1g to Nolte Oa mr on 
W«hte~day, V.Hcft 30, to l.aio£1 you on 1m.l fiigh:s. ~ve·w ~;king b· .a ~t... col!er,e -:;turtent::. w~r:'l ha·•e the smarts. skt!ls and m!t-11.!~! to trt aMJHnt ptk:t 

Recycle The Observer. 
C<JNINet 'l'uul! MAIUSE 0J«I':S Owe. LA Stuu101' TEAM 
RESERVE YOUR SEAT TODAY! 
1st U. Barcla1 or Gunnery Sgt Templeton 765-479-1275 OSOLAF@SMCD.USMC.Mil 
M A It f NE: 0 f' ftC Ut rkO(j JL'\ l~ofS MulaeOffic~r.com 


Monday, March 27, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 


ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 

Early enrollee running back James Aldridge prepares to hit a blocking sled during practice March 22. Irish head coach Charlie Weis said Aldridge will compete for the kickoff return job. 
the interceptions 
"/ was definitely was its method of 
and causing those practice, which
pleased with the 
turnovers on focuses more on defense." attack today. We itself than on oppo­Coyne said the were taking a lot nents. 
offense matched "All week in 
more risks, and
the defense's level practice we worked of play. really thinking on how we could It was the team's complicate our
outside the box." 
third highest goal offense, doing total on the season, things like feeding
Tracy Coyne 
but in neither of the the ball in the mid­top two goal-scor­Irish coach dle and running ing games was it so different offensive dominant, Coyne said. sets," Orr said. "It was more 
The difference was evident as important for us to know what the team utilized a more risk­we had to improve on than to taking style of attack that it know what our opponents might lacked against Northwestern. do -and that definitely helped 
"I was definitely pleased with us win." the attack today," Coyne said. Next up for the Irish is a chal­"We were taking a lenging five-game lot more risks, and road swing, as
"It was more
really thinking out­Notre Dame travels side the box." important for us to to No. 2 Duke, No. The one goal that 11 Georgetown and
know what we had 
most epitomized No. 13 Syracuse all 
what Coyne wanted to improve on than in the next month. from her team to know what our "The level of tal­came at the end of ent in our next few
opponents might 
the first half, when , games is much
d0.

attack Meghan higher than it has Murphy shot and been so far," Orr scored over her Kakl Orr said. "The Canisius shoulder with her game was a good
Irish attack

back to the goal to building block, but give Notre Dame there are still a lot an 11-2 halftime lead. of tough games coming up that 
Murphy was one of 10 Notre we can win." Dame scorers, including four The Irish begin the road Irish players with multiple stretch Friday at 1 p.m. against goals. Orr's four goals led all Connecticut. scorers, followed by three from both Murphy and attack Caitlin Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at McKinney, and attack Jill Byers jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
Returns 
continued from page 28 
and James will get some looks at kickoff return," Weis said. "We've got a whole bunch of guys with return ability that are coming in the door." 
Aldridge, a 6-foot-1, 215­pound running back, and West, 5-foot-8, 172-pound receiver, are settling in to spring practice well, Weis said. 
"I think they're going through a little bit of a transi­tion [to a faster pace]," he said. 
Weis said competition in special teams will be impor­tant after Notre Dame aver­aged just 19 yards per return last year on kickoffs. Rising sophomore receivers D.J. Hord and David Grimes were the main return men for the Irish at the end of last season. 
"Let's see if we can't get the [best] returners back there ­whether it's David or D.J., or ... George West," Weis said. "I don't care who it is, we need to start getting the ball past the 30 when it's not a touch­back." 
On Friday, Irish safety and punt returner Tom Zbikowski said his expressed desire to participate on kickoff returns is subordinate to his need to improve on defense. 
"I've got to stick to getting better and worrying about the secondary right now," he said. ''I'll try to step into his office, maybe. I don't know." 
A day later, Weis said he was opposed to the idea. 
"He wants to play quarter­back -you're barking up the wrong tree," Weis said. "Any time he can touch the ball, he likes to touch the ball." 
Weis said the competition for kickoff returns will be similar to the competition at almost 


Blowout 
continued from page 28 
team's defensive tenacity after Notre Dame's 21-12 loss to Northwestern March 18. 
"One of the things we really wanted to work on in this game was extending our limits," Coyne said. "I definitely think we did that with 

added two. 
Notre Dame midfielder Crysti Foote, the team's leading scorer, was shut down for most of the game, contributing only one goal in the second half. But that one goal was the 123rd of her career, moving her ahead of Lael O'Shaughnessy as the sec­ond-leading scorer in Irish his­tory. 
Orr said a major reason for 
Notre Dame's win every other position. He said he has reminded all the returning players that 25 incoming fresh­men will arrive in August to compete for starting jobs as motivation for the team. 

"I think that our competition ... will be better this year because we will have more quality athh)tes competing for the same jobs," Weis said. 
Weis said he is most focused on the competition between potential starters at the line­backer position and is looking for improvement at the other defensive positions. 
He said the first three days of practice went well in evalu­ating talent at linebacker. 
"We're getting a legitimate look at all of the contenders because they're getting a lot of action," he said. 
Defensive coordinator Rick Minter said he was watching the contest for the starting role closely. 
"The new guys have got to step up," Minter said. "It's going to be fun and challeng­ing and scary all at the same time to see who those three are going to be -who's going to be starting at linebacker for the spring game." 
While the linebacker spot has garnered the most atten­tion, Weis said a lack of depth on the offensive line has forced him to alter his practice setup. 
"When you don't have two complete offensive lines ... it forces [changes]," Weis said. "We have the same number of reps we normally have but it's broken up so much more so people aren't dropping out on you." 
Practice resumes today at 4 
p.m. at the Loftus Center. Weis said practices will remain indoors until the grass on Cartier Field grows thick enough to avoid injuries. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
WhY 

MEbiE\7Al S'CUbiES? 


I 7\"F(JR~tA"I"l()N. & 
PIZZA SoctAL 
'l't '":·~1l.J•"' \·1·\l':··t.~ ?S
• ~" . .1 •., t L \ • '\l .t ~ ­
.·
0:5., V-" s 
p~.t 
()ak H.tlOtn Soulh [}u m •J.t f l;111 
\\'ith IJ:LL~~st t'. 

Fr. Ted Hesburgh Ralph Mcinerny 
•.:urn.:nt ~w~k·nr" ~m.. ~ ~.~tlll'f la..:tllt\ llll~tnh•.·r~ 


Rising sophomore David Grimes runs d1,1ring practice Friday. Grimes returned kicks for the Irish last year averaging 22.5 yards per return. Irish head coach Charlie Weis said there will be increased competition for the kickoff return position. 
.-----------------~­
page 26 



Troubles 
continued from page 28 
both points with No. 2 singles victories in each match. Parbhu has played some matchns at No. 1 this s1mson. switching positions with Stnphnn Bass. 
"Slweva's playing at a vnry high lnvnl," Bayliss said. "lie's bnen thnn~ for us all year and I'm vnry encouraged by what I sec." 
Against Texas A&M. the Irish wnnt down early with a lop­sided loss in doubles. Erie l.angenkamp and Andrew Hoth lost R-1 at No. 2 and Hyan Knckley and Parbhu lost by the same scorn at No. 1. The No.3 
serve time for the traveling Irish. 
Although the loss was disap­pointing, Bayliss praised his team's grit and determination in l'ighting back into position against a strong team. 
"I was surprised [Texas A&MI beat ]No. 21 Illinois, but now I can sec why," Bayliss said. "They're pretty tough at home." 
Texas 6, Notre Dame 1 
Tlu~ Irish fell to No. 5 Texas on Saturday in a difficult match against top-night com­petition. 
"Texas just spanked us," Bayliss said. "They showed me why they are a top-l'ive team and they played very well. We were in a lot of the matches but 

match was aban­"Texas just spanked they were the 
doned in the better team and
us. They showed me
interests of time, deserved to 
but Bass and why they are a top-five win." Barry King were team and they played In doubles, the trailing 7-4 when Irish lost all
very well. We were in a
the point was three matches.
lot ofthe matches 
dinclwd. Bass and King In singlns. but they were the were first off the Andrew Hoth courts. falling 8­
better team and
quickly fell at 3. They were fol-
deserved to win."
No. 6, losing 6-2, lowed by (J-2 to Brett Kcckley and .loelson. Parbhu Bobby Bayliss Parbhu, who lost l'linelwd a R-2 at No.1.
Irish coach 
straigh t-snt vic­Although the 
tory at No. 2. point was d1~feating Bryan Wooten 6-:{, 7-already clinched, the h 17-3) for tlw only Irish point. Longhorns added a vietory at 'l'hn rest of the Irish fore1~d No. 2. winning R-4 over four third sets but wen~ unabln l.angenkamp and Hoth. to finish the points. ln singles, Kecklny lost 6-1, 
"Basically all of them fought 6-2 at. No. 4 to put Texas up 2­back and pulled llwmsnlv1~s 0. Parbhu pullt~d the Irish back in the matdws," Bayliss within one with a 6-4; 6-1 vie­said. "It was n~ally. touch and tory over No. 20 Callum Beale go at the end. This is a match at No. 2, but the rest of the we 1:ould have won." outeomes would be dismal for 
Barry King lost 6-2. 1-6. 6-3 Notre Dame. at No. 4 and Conor Pollock At No. 3, llelgeson lost 6-4, topped l.angPnkarnp 6-0. 6-7 (J-:{ to Longhorn star Hoger (2-7), h-:~ to Gubser and Eric clinch the match Langenkamp lost
"You play with what 
for tlw Aggit~s. 6-3, 6-4 at No. 6 
Brett lltdgeson. you have and you to clineh the who usually plays don't make excuses. " mateh for the at No. 3 singles, Longhorns. was out with a After the final
Bobby Bayliss 
minor injury. point, King lost 6-· Bayliss said that Irish coach 4, 6-4 at No. 5 
tlw Aggie playprs were very elose in ability but did not speculate on the effect llelgeson's injury had on the match. 
"You play with what you have and you don't make excuses," he said. "We had a good enough team to win the match and we had enough 
opportunities ....  They're  a  
good team."  
Bass  chose  to  finish  his  

match, but ended up losing 6­3, 3-6, h-3 to Jerry Makowski at No. l. Makowski is No. R nationally in singles play. 
Kecklny, who made his debut in the singles rankings in the No. 115 slot, was tied 3-3 in the third set of his match at No. 3, which was abandoned according to an agreement made bnfore the match to con-

and Bass lost to No. 20 Travis Helgeson 4-6, 6­2, 6-3 in the top spot. 
Although the team was frus­trated by the loss, Bayliss pointed out that playing against elite competition puts the Irish in the best position for the postseason. 
"The reason we try to play the best teams is to play our­selves Iinto I a position [so thatl at NCAA [tournament! time, we know what it's like and we know what it takes and We know what areas we have to improve to be at that level," Bayliss said. 
The Irish next play April 8 at home at 1 p.m. against Southern Methodist. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

The Observer + SPORTS Monday, March 27, 2006 

Milestone 
continued from page 28 

Georgetown 8, Notre Dame 3 
The Hoyas exploded for four runs in the eighth against Notre Dame reliever Jess Stewart to put the game away. 
Mainieri sent junior Jeff Manship to the mound for the first game Saturday. Manship pitched six full innings, allow­on his Big-East leading 1Oth hit-by-pitch and was later driven in on a single by short­stop Greg Lopez. 
"I think we've got some tough kids that stand close to the plate and when pitchers throw inside they don't back down," Mainieri said. 
But that was all the scoring the Irish would do. 
Notre Dame 12, Georgetown 2 
The Irish bats came alive in the second game of 
ing four runs on but left the game trailing and ended up with the loss. 
The Irish opened the scoring with two runs in the top of the first on an RBI dou­ble by left field­er Matt Bransfield, but the lloyas came back to tie in the bottom hall' 

eight hits, Saturday's doubleheader as Notre Dame put 12 runs on the 
"We were disappointed board in a I0­not to win all the run win. 
Hizzo led the
games. But we'll be 
Irish offensively,
happy to win the going 3-4 with a 
series and look home run, four HBis, and three
forward to Pittsburgh 
runs scored. 
next weekend." 
"IThe winl was big for us after losing the
Paul Mainieri 
first game,"
Irish head coach 
Rizzo said. "We came out and zija threw seven innings, allowing just five hits en route to his seeond win of the season. 
lloyas starter Darren Sizemore strugglnd, giving up nine runs and 11 hits in just 4-plus innings. 
Notre Dame 6, Georgetown 3 
The Irish jumped out to a 6­0 lead on tlw J loy as before a ninth inning Georgetown rally cut the lead in half. 
Notre Dame starter Tom Thornton pitched 8-plus innings without allowing a run, but was pulled after allowing two in the ninth. Closer Kyln Weiland came in to get the final outs. 
"There was never really any fear they would eome back," Hizzo said. "We thought six runs would be enough." 
Thn Irish scored two runs in the top of the first, then added three in the f'ifth and one more in the ninth. The lloyas tallind only six hits in the game and had no play1~rs with more than om1. 
Notre Dame will next be in action Tuesday at 5:05 p.m. against Valparaiso at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
with two runs of their own. 

Georgetown picked up two more runs in the bottom of the third, and the Irish answered with one in their half of the fourth after center fielder Alex Nettey took first showed them we're a better team than that." 
First baseman Jeremy Barnes also homered for Notre Dame from the leadoff spot. 
Right-hander Jeff Samard­


NORTHWESTERN 
UNIVERSITY 

REGISTRATION OPENS APRIL 10 
www.northwestern.edu/summer 

--------------------------------------------~-.--------------------------------, 
Monday, March 27, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS 

JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM

CROISSANTWORLD 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 33 Allude 67 Displaced person
1 Cousin of a 35 Copy cockatoo 68 Some M &M's
38 Borderline 6 Read on the logic? 69 Bank (on) run 
42 Ring site 70 Durable fabric 10 Lip 
43 Cockamamie 

14 Sultanate citizen 
44 Roll DOWN 
15 Shower square 45 Sing the praises 1 In style of
16 Fall preceder 2 Start of a Latin 46 Kind of ring conjugation
17 Informal head cover 49 Bee-related 3 Elevator part 
18 Housing_ 52 Ally in movies 4 Baptist leader? 
19 First name in 53 "Stay away from 5 Passamaquoddy architecture the swamp home grass"?
20 One who gets 6 Formal a piece of the 58 Poe prod[Jct accessory pie? 
59 Bridge 7 Double 23 Kind of sauce 
checker so It may be well­27 Religious 
taken a Rival of Bjorn commemoration 65 Pastry chef's 9 Parcel 
28 Fearful aide 1oSound setup 30 Baltimore 66 2003 A.L. 
11 Final Four site partner 
M.V.P., 36 Put forward 49 Moving 57 Dr. Jones, to 32 Ticked off familiarly 12 Horse fathers friends
37 Diary note 50 Sign of the 13 Wear 61 Fire truck 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 39 "Cheers" role 1960's 
21 Poetic accessory 40 Savanna sight 
conjunction 51 Sat around 
62 Canterbury can 22 Combusted 
41 Tissue additive 

54 Open a bit 63 Elm City23 Try a tidbit 45 Some brews collegian55 Scale start
-:-t-:::t-::::+:-:t--:+.::-1 24 Luau greeting 47 Key abbr. 
64 "Stand" band, 25 Not so .common 48 Masticated 56 Old fiddle 1989 
26 Palm, e.g. For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a
29 Huge worry 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. -::+-:-:+:-:+:+.=-! 30 Did in Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
31 Part of H.M.S. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
34 Many millennia 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 35 To the left or Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young right solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ________ State--~-Zip_______ 
HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKEARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
SOSAB 
j


I I r [] 
<02005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
RATTI 
rJ []
1 
MOCINE 
± 
www.jumble.com 
GOADIA 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

[ J I [ J 
-
Answer: ..



rI I J.. rI I I I I J 
(Answers Monday) I Jumbles: PUDGY ERUPT MALLET JESTERYesterday's Answer: 
When they settled their disa§reement over a new bed, they-PUT IT TO "REST' 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Keira Knightley, 21; Kenny Chesney, 38; Martin Short. 56; James Caan, 66 
Happy Birthday: It's your time to shine. Set up a schedule to work by and stick to it. This year is meant for saving and making sure your future is safe and secure financially. Travel should be implemented if it will help you protect your position. Your numbers are 13, 19. 24, 26. 27, 34 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You can stabilize your position and work through some details today. Progress will be yours if you are smart with the way you handle your money. Make a commitment to a creative project you want to pursue. 
**** 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): Problems with a loved one or older relative may add to your responsibilities today. Someone you thought you could trust is probably leading you on or astray. Use your better judgment--if 80mething sounds too good to be true it probably is. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 211): You will have to walk a fine line today. If you are intent on getting something you believe in off the ground. fine. But don't count on getting help. If you strive for too much, too soon you will fall short of your goals. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Do something nice for yourself. You canexpcct a little extra cash or a gift to come your way. Making changes to your home or getting your spring cleaning out of the way will leave you feeling tired but good. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Memories will make you want to visit people or places from your past. Someone you used to know may fool you by exaggerating about his or her life. Travel will be a good lesson and experience that will help you put your own life in perspective. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may feel drawn to someone who is trying to use you. Ask a trusted friend for help handling a personal situation you are in. A little thought put into your future professional plans will pay off. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your ability to explain your position and your intentions will help you get the help and support you need. A look at different locations and opportunities may set the stage for a move. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Spend time with people who are enthusiastic about the same things you are. Love is prominent but you will have to be true to yourself. Steer clear of getting involved with more than one person. Shopping will lead to a great buy. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): People will either love you or hate you today. You won't be able to please everyone so just be yourself. You should consider partnering with someone who is trying to do something similar to you professionally. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Stay out of trouble by avoiding any kind of family feud or controversial topic. Remain neutral or avoid all personal dealings by concentrating on a professional project instead. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be eager to get out and make yourself heard. Love is looking very promising so let someone you think is special know how you feel. Don't promise what you can't deliver. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Not everyone will be open about the way they feel. Make your own decision as to whom you can trust and whom you can't.*** 
Birthday Baby: You are dependable but unpredictable. You strive to be different and are not afraid to speak out for what you believe in. You are unique, ahead of your time and an inspiration to others. 
Eugenia's Weh sites: astroadvice.com for fun. eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 
r-----------------------------------------------~~---------------------------------------------------------------------­

THE OBSERVER 










PORTS
Monday, March 27, 2006 

WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Golden goals 
Irish dominate Golden Griffins to rebound from their first loss 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sporrs Wri1cr 
Kaki Orr's two quiek goals in the tirsl half put Notrn Dame on lop of Canisius early, and tlw Irish never looked back en route to an 1H-2 victory Saturday at Moose Krause Stadium. 
The Golden Cril"f'ins struck first on a Whitnny Card goal less than 30 seconds into the game, but Orr retaliated quickly, scoring 

-
her first of four goals only seconds latnr. She would scorn an unassistnd second goal with­in live minutes to give the Irish a lead they would not relinquish. 
Arter surrendering thn early goal to Canisius, the Irish defense stepped up and stopped any attmnpts on goal by the Grillins. Canisius had only four shots total in the game, none of whieh wore taken in the sec­ond half. 
The Notre Dame defense was also impor­tant in starting the attack, forcing 34 turnovers. 
The tough defense impressed Irish coach 
see BLOWOUT/page 25 


page 28 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Deep in the heart, Notre Dame falters 
Sheeva Parbhu is lone star for Irish on trip to Texas 
By KATE GALES 
Associa1e Spons Ediwr 
The Irish battled back from an early deficit in Sunday's match against Texas A&M, but it was too little, too lal!l for Notre Dame, which finished the week­end 0-2 after a loss at Texas Saturday. 
The No. 15 Irish (13-7) fell 6-1 to No. 5 Texas and lost 5-1 to the No. 22 Aggies in a match that was closer than the score app11ars. 
"After playing absolutely miserably in doubles and starting very slowly in most of the singles matches, our guys fought back and I'm very proud of them," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
Sheeva Parbhu was the lone star for Notre Dame in Texas, accounting for 
see TROUBLES/page 26 
BASEBALL 

Mainieri collects SOOth win as team takes two of three 
before winning the second Stadium. "[Rizzo! and Lopez have not
By CHRIS KHOREY 

game 12-2 and capping the The Hoyas dropped to 11-14 hit for high average in their 
A~sociatc Sports Ediwr 

me," he said. weekend with a 6-3 victory overall and 1-2 in the Big East careers, but I guess their "It's all about Sunday. Notre Dame moved to after their three-game homes­adrenaline gets pumping llead coach Paul Mainieri the kids we've 12-8 overall on the season. land at Shirley Povieh Field because they always seem to earned his SOOth victory at had and the "We were disappointed not outside Washington, D.C. eome through in the clutch," Notrn Damn, and thn Irish got staff over the to win all the games," Mainieri The Irish got a lot of offen­Mainieri said. "If our bottom of tlwir Big East sdwduln ofT to a years." said. "But we'll be happy to sive production out of their the order has that kind of pro­strong start by taking two of The coach win the series and look for­eighth and ninth place hitters, duction and we can get the thrnn games from Gnorgntown saw his reign­war~. to Pittsburgh next week­shortstop Greg Lopez and right middle of the order to do the this wneknnd in Bethnsda, Md. ing confer­end. fielder Cody Rizzo. same, we'll have a great ol'fen­
Mainieri

Maininri, who has cmnpiled ence champi­The Irish and Panthers will The two combined for seven sive team." 
a 500-204-3 record in 12 sea­on Irish drop the first game of meet for a three-game set next HBis and five runs over the 
sons in South Bend, down-a doubleheader Saturday H-3 weekend at Frank Eck three games. see MILESTONE/page 26 

FooTBALL 



N e\V faces tnay return for We is 

,. 
Weis says West and 

Aldridge will compete 
for kickoff return job 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Ediwr 

liarly-enrollee freshmen James Aldridge and (;eorge West will compete for the kick­off return job during spring practice, Irish head coach Charlie Weis said Saturday. 
"(;norge, on the one lhandl, 
see RETURNS/page 25 

ND SOFTBALL 


Fuenuneler and Booth combine for no-hitter 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 

Solid pitching combined with timely hitting led to two wins for the Irish as Notre Dame . opened up regional play this weekend. 
After rain in Kalamazoo Saturday delayed the start of a double header until Sunday afternoon, Notre Dame made easy work of Western Michigan. 
The irish took the tirst game 5-0 thanks to a combined no­hitter by Heather Booth and Kenya Fuemmeler. Booth struck out live in the first four innings, and the Irish claimed a 5-0 lead when Irish coach Deanna Gumpf called on Fuemmeler to close out the remaining three innings. 
"Kenya hasn't gotten the innings that I wanted to get her 
see NO-NO/page 25 

en SMC SOFTBALL 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
SMC TENNIS 


MEN'S BASKETBALL
NBA 
NBA 

t: 
LLI 
Co) 





Notre Dame 6 

Warriors 90 
George Mason 86 
Cleveland 104 


Iowa 1
z The Belles swept a 
Saint Mary's captured 


UConn 84 (OT) 
Houston 102 (OT)


Kings 83 
doubleheader amidst 
a league contest against
::5 
The Thompson twins
= 
driving rain Saturday, 
Adrian but lost to 

The Patriots continued 
Adona! Foyle scored 
LeBron James scored

Q 
won their doubles
beating Rose-Hulman 
Aquinas College this 

their magical run, beating 
18 and Mike Dunleavy 
36 points to help the

A. cs: 
match as the Irish
10-1 and 15-1. 
weekend. 

the top-seeded Huskies. 
added 17 in the win for 
Cavaliers win their fifth 
remained unbeaten. 

Golden State. 
straight game. 
~


en page 24 
page 23 
page 22 
page 22 
page 17

page 17 


