
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 78 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY I, 2006 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Jenkins calls pilgrimage part of ND mission 
CLAIREKELLEYfTheObserver University President Father John Jenkins stands outside Santa Susanna, a church In Rome, Tuesday. 
By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Editor 
HOME -For University President Father John Jenkins, his trip to Rome this week is about much more than attending ollicial meetings or even cement­ing relationships with Vatican ollicials -it's a connection to the Catholic Church so profound it can hardly be described in words. 
"You can't walk around Home without being struck by the lay­ers of history," Jenkins said Tuesday. "To be Catholic, as someone said, is to be Catholic in space -that means you're con­nected with people throughout the world -but also in time, a tradition that runs through cen­turies. I think at a personal and spiritual level, to become more deeplr, aware of that, is beneficial to us. 

Jenkins, the University Ollicers and the Board of Trustees arrived in Rome Sunday night and will leave Friday morning. Otlicial Board of Trustees confer­ences began Tuesday and will culminate today in an academic conference, where Provost Thomas Burish will award two honorary degrees. 
Meetings with Vatican leaders -including Congregation for the Doctrine ol' the Faith prefect CLAIRE KELLEYfThe Observer 
----------,..-----------::-Jenkins will meet with Church officials during the see ROME/page 6 trustees' trip. 
Diversity initiatives underway 
Notre Dame seeks specific benchmarks 
By MADDIE HANNA A...,ociatc News Editor 
During his inaugural and facul­ty addresses, Univorsity l'rnsident Fatlwr John Jenkins stress!Hl the importance of inc~reasing diversity at Notre l>anw in broad terms -but stopped short of pinpointing spn­cilk ways to do so. 
But the theme has bmm taknn snriously, as the University will pursun several "eoncretn, achiev­able ac:tivities" this semester in ordnr to prioritizn Jenkins' goal, said .Jpan Ann Linney, viee presi­cllmt and <Lc.;sociate provost. 
Those steps will be a student­crPated project, a farulty-written 
see DIVERSITY/page 9 



Intercultural floor educates students 
By LAUREN LAVELLE 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's students don't need to travel far for an intercultural experience. In faet, they don't even need to leave campus. 
The Intercultural Living Community (JLC) on the fourth lloor in North Hegina Hall gives students the opportunity to experience ethnic and cultural diversity in their everyday lives. 
The Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership (CWIL) began the program three years ago in an efTort to promote awareness of cui­
see FLOOR/page 9 


Teachers carry on 
in gulf 
By KATHLEEN MCDONNELL News Writer 
When 2005 Notre~ Damn grad­uate Melissa llentges began teaching in Nnw Orleans last fall, she had no idea of the chal­lenges that would face~ her in the coming months. 
As a part of Tnach for America, a nationwidn program of morn than 3,500 eorps mnm­bors, Ilentges b1~gan tnaching at a local nlnnwntary school. llowever, a mere live days al'tnr dassns began, nature forced New Orlnans to evaeuatn as llurrieane Katrina ravaged the 
see TEACH/page 8 

Exhibit unites Latino poets, artists 
By NICOLE ZOOK Assistant News Editor 
Two art forms merged into one as "Poetas y Pintores: Artists Conversing with Verse" opened in the Moreau Art Galleries at Saint Mary's Jan. 27. 
Twelve Latino visual artists chose works by 12 Latino poets and used them as inspiration for brand new artworks ranging in style from abstract to digital representation. The poems were displayed next to each piece of artwork exhibited, cre­ating a truly multi-genre expe­rience for the over 7 5 patrons who visited the gallery on open­ing night. 
The Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership (CWIL) 
see EXHIBIT/page 4 



Experts discuss future of lVar-ravaged Iraq 
By MARCELLA BERRIOS 
News Writer 

Almost three years after the United States overthrew Saddam Hussein's dictator­ship in Iraq, three Notre Dame scholars with opposing viewpoints met again in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies Tuesday to address the question "Iraq: What Now? Should the U.S. with­draw, stay the course, or engage more deeply?" 
The panel of experts includ­ed the commanding officer of Notre Dame's Army HOTC program, Lt. Col. Kelly Jordan. Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies faeulty assoeiatn and assistan t political science pro­fessor Daniel Lindley and sen­ior fellow for the Kroe Institute and political seienee professor George Lopez. 
.Jordan spoke in favor of tlw United States' prnsent strate­gy eoncerning involvement in the reconstruction and demoeratization of Iraq. 
Lindley argued in favor of a firm yet morn analytieally studied American presence in Iraq. 
Finally, Lopez suggested the incapability of the Bush administration to fully com­prehend Iraq's current state 
see IRAQ/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, February 1, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Life after lifeguarding 
It wasn't that long ago that lifeguarding was the most glamorous job around. Something about being a lif11guard was just so appealing. Maybe it dated back to "The Sandlot" and that magic moment between Squints and Wendy Peppercorn. It could have 
Kate Gales

been the fact that mothers banned their children 
Associate

from watching "Baywatch" until the Sports Editor seventh grade. It could have just been the power wielded by the whistle. Whatever it was, being a lifeguard wa<> considered "hottest summer job ever." 
It could have been the power trip-the lifeguards ruled the pool. They perched above the rest of us at local pools, observing the sunbathing teenagers and spla<>hing teenagers from behind mirrored wrap­around sunglasses and smears of zinc oxide. Lifeguards got to go behind the front desk. The girls at the snack bar always served them free food. All I know is that at 15, it didn't get any cooler than lifeguarding. 
Now, though, the magic word is "intern­ship." I know people who have been prepar­ing for today's career fair since 2004. Actually, I could probably rattle off the names of half a dozen people who have been preparing for this day since approximately the second grade. But for those of us who didn't have our career plans mapped out before we mastered the multiplication tables, it's been a little harder to figure out which direction we're going to pick. 
Nowadays, lifeguarding, waitressing and babysitting just aren't good enough. Bartending was glamorous at 18, but doesn't cut it the summer before you graduate. . Folding shirts at Ralph Lauren doesn't impress anyone, except your sister who loves the employee discount. Nowadays, it's investment banking and Big Four accounting firms who rule the world of the business school juniors. You can rattle ofl'the top marketing firms, management programs and IT salaries for summer internships, and "leadership programs" are a cutthroat busi­ness. One day, your friend's sleeping through class-the next day he's flying to New York for job interviews. 
It's been hard to condense 20 years of my life into a resume. I had to leave out my sixth-grade Geography Bee win, clippings of my best columris, my nearly flawless driving record and 13 years of piano lessons. But today, I'll put on my suit (which already makes me feel like a high-powered execu­tive, not a lowly intern) and hand out copies ofmy resume to recruiters at the JACC. The recruiters probably won't know that I already have a job here at The Observer where I work until 5 a.m. without batting an eye. They probably don't care that in the work cafeteria, I would always be willing to share the good parts of my lunch. It might be irrelevant that I make amazing chocolate chip cookies and that I have a weakness for romantic comedies. 
It's hard to really stand ~mt at a career fair, after all. Maybe that was the real appeal of the life­guard's stand. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Jan. 31 edition ofThe Observer, the article entitled "'Monologues' have been banned ar SMC since 2001" reponed the Eve Ensler play 'The Vagina Monologues" was banned from the Saint Mary's campus. In fucr, the current administration has nor banned the play and the previous administration srruggled with the same issues of"endorse­ment" outlined last week by Univel5ity President Father John Jenkins. No Saint Mary's campus group has proposed a reading ofthe work in the past rwo y=. Instead mem­bel5 of the College community have chosen ro write about their own experiences and selected pieces have been read as the "SMC Monologues." In the Jan. 30 edition ofThe Observer, a Viewpoint letter· by Joanna Basile represented only her views and nor neces­sarily those ofthe Center for Social Concerns. The Observer regrets these errors. 
QUESTION OF THE DAv: DO YOU THINK NOTRE DAME HAS A GOOD LEVEL OF DIVERSITY? 

Rachel Barretto  Dennis Slater  Mary Beth Scully  Greg Vallejos  
freshman Cavanaugh  freshman Zahm  sophomore Cavanaugh  freshman Zahm  
"Yes, because in my section alone, we have girls from all around the country. ,,  'Yeah, check me out ... rm Peruvian, aren't/?"  "/ think Notre Dame caters to many walks of life, especially with need-based  "Yes, because I'm Hispanic ... and we have many wooden ships used during the ,,Civil War era.  
scholarships. ''  


LJ Masters, left, and Andy Martinez, University maintenance workers, attach wire mesh to the top of a chandelier In O'Shaughnessy Hall Tuesday to pre­vent mischevious students from throwing empty soda bottles into the light. 
OFFBEAT 
Phil's friend celebrates last year as groundhog handler 
PUNXSUTAWNEY, Penn. -Whether Punxsutawney Phil sees his shadow or not on Groundhog Da~ one thing's for sure: The man who has been the furry forecaster's official handler for the past 15 years will step down after this year. 
Bill Deeley, 56, said he doesn't have the energy or the time. Part of the job includes taking Phil to parades and special events. 
"I could stay in forever, but even the Pony Express changed horses," Deeley said. 
TODAY 
a:: 

LLI  
:::1:  
!C(  
LLI  
3:  
...I  
II(  
(,)  
0 ...I  HIGH  43  
LOW  37  
Atlanta 55 I 38 Boston 44 I 36 Chicago 35 I 33 Denver 54 I 22 Houston 72 I 48 Los Angeles 67 I 52 Minneapolis 31 I 22 New York 46141 Philadelphia 45 I 38 Phoenix 74 I 47 Seattle 45 I 39 St. Louis 53 I 29 Tampa 67 I 57 Washington 43 I 39 



Vinh Nguyen Shanna Pereira 
junior freshman Stanford Cavanaugh 
"Sweet! This poll "Yes. Well, boys says so. But no are enough 
In the years since The Punxsutawney Spirit news­paper first carried word of the groundhog's failing to see its shadow in 1886, this town of 7,500 people about 65 miles northeast of Pittsburgh has been dubbed the "Weather Capital of the World" because of the groundhog tradition. 
Shelter dog wins show 
ST. LOUIS -A dachs­hund-cocker mix named Tillie that was rescued by a no-kill shelter last year in California won best of show Monday in an online com­petition in which 45,000 people voted. 
Using the Internet' allowed the show to reach the masses, while a new category was created to recognize dogs that are not included in traditional dog shows. 
"This is a classic Cinderella story," said the tuxedoed Ernie Planck, as he draped a medal and rib­bon around Tillie's tiny neck. "She's a mixed-breed rescue dog selected from 15,000 entries. She is America's dog." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
HIGH 35 HIGH 45 HIGH 38 LOW 31 LOW 30 LOW 35 
... not at all. ,, diversity for me, 
coming from an 
all-girls school. ,, 
IN BRIEF 
Author Kirsten Sundberg Lunstrum will give a reading from her debut book, This Life She's Chosen, today at 7:30 
p.m. in South Dining Hall's Hospitality Room. 
The 2006 Winter Career and Internship Fair will take place today from 4 to 8 p.m. in the Joyce Center fieldhouse. The event is free and sponsored by the Career Center. 
The College of Arts & Letters will present "You Don't Really Have to be a Rhodes Scholar to Land a Fellowship for Post Graduate Study" Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Hammes Student Lounge of Coleman-Morse. 
Legendary rap artist Chuck D from the critically acclaimed group Public Enemy will pres­ent "Rap, Race, and Reality" Thursday at 8:30 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall, Room 141. A Jimmy John's reception will follow at 10 p.m. 
Student band "The Harper Valley Drifters" will play Thursday at 10 p.m. at Legends. 
The band Nice Save! will play Friday at 10:30 p.m. at Corby's. 
RecSports' Late Night Olympics will take place in the Joyce Center from 10 p.m. Saturday to 4 a.m. Sunday. Donations of $1 are taken at the door. Proceeds benefit St. Joseph County Special Olympics. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 
HIGH 33 HIGH 32 LOW 25 LOW 23 

Wl·dnesday, February I, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Career Fair ready for job-hunting students 
SMC ready to 'du1np its plu1np' 
Exercise program offers competition, team fun to raise fitness levels 
opportunities will be available. 
"!There are! innurnPrable rna­sons to como to the fair, evnn if' yo~ do~!'t know .what you're lpur­sumgl, Roos smd. 
The fair will bo "for every sin­gle major on eampus," with approximately 240 postings that list Arts and Lettors majors among the majors sought, said Hens. Eighty-six postings include sophomorns as well. 
Hens also said students should bring resumes to the Fair, but cover letters are not necessary. 
"If you don't have a rosumo, come just to meet and explore the different employers that eome to Notre Dame and the opportunities they offer," she said. 
Employers will also hold a rneeption from 12 to 2:30 p.m. in the Monogram Hoorn of the Joyce Cnntnr to allow students to addrnss divnrsity topics-includ­ing the rohJs of women, dif1~1rent races and aflinity groups -with­in tho organizations. 
"All students and employers arn I also I invited to attend the divnrsily recnption ... to ask very difl'ernnt questions of employers," Hoes said. 
Hoes said the fair will be bPne­fieial to student'> who attnnd. 
"!Tho fair intends! to provide a unique opportunity for a large numbnr or stuclents to talk, greet and rwtwork with a large num­ber of employers from diverse industries and sectors," she said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 

By EMMA DRISCOLL 
Nt·ws Writer 
Heprnsnntativns from eompa­nies and organizations such as Henhok lntnrnational, Ltd., .JP Morgan Chase and Mierosol't Corporation will make their way to Notrn Damn today for the 2006 Winter Carm1r and Internship Fair, sponsored by the Career Centnr. 
This year's fair, taking place from 4 to H p.m. today in the .Joyee Center Fieldhouse, will havn "tlw largest number of mnploynrs ewr," said Anita Hoes, the Career Center's associate dirnctor. Onn hundrnd and sixty four employnrs will attend the fair while 37 non-profit organiza­tions and 14 government agen­dns will also be reprnsnntml. 
Sevnral employers new to the fair indudn OMI> (media commu­nieations spncialists), Hodale Publishing (book and magazine publishnrs). Midway Amusnrmmt c;anws (Xbox, l'layStation 2, c;anwboy Advancn and c;arrwC:ulw ganws), Our Lady of Guadalupn Middle School and Catholie Charitins Archdioeesn of c:hicago. 
In past years, 20 to 30 employ­nrs typically posted opportunities with tho fair but did not send fllprnsentaliVIJS to the actual evll!ll. This nurnbnr has signifi­cantly dnermLSIJd, as this year's fair has only sevm1 nmployPrs that havn postml opportunities hut will not bn attnnding. Full­limo, part-limn and internship By LAURA KLEINSCHMIDT 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's eommunity is looking a little more lit these days -due to students and faculty getting motivated and dumping some "plump" in a new fitness program at the Angola Athletie Center. 
The "Dump your Plump" pro­gram was recently renamed "Bolles for Fitness" due to the number of women who signed up and in order to promote the more positive aspects of exer­eise and fitnnss. 
Director of Athletics and Hecreation Lynn Kaehmarik said she is impressed with tho largo turnout for the program and expects it to go well. 
"I expect the program to run very eiTeetivnly and with lots of fun· and motivation," she said. "I am very exeited to sec Angela even more crowded than it already is with inereased fitness aetivity." 
While this is the first time Saint Mary's has attempted to launch a group f'itness pro­gram, "Belles for Fitness" is alrPady so successful that stu­dPnts are not the only ones tak­ing advantage of the program -it has attracted many faculty and staff members as well. 
Ono strong aspect of "Belles for Fitness" is the focus on group effort, which eneourages motivation and persistence within each team as wp,ll as with all of the women partici­pating in the program. The competition aspect helps as well, with teams of' two to 10 participants competing against each other for prizes and recognition. 
Several teams have ehosen a fun and creative team name. Team names range from "Making Spandex Look Good" and 'Til Take Fries with that" to "Why have a Six Pack when you can have a Keg." 
Each team member is required to work out for a min­imum of 200 minutes per week (an average of about at least 30 minutes per day). If a partici­pant does not make the 200 minutes, the entire team loses points. Each week there is a "huddle" where teams gather to help encourage each other and are can do a weigh-in, an optional part of the program. Contestants may have a goal to lose anywhere from zero to 10 pounds on an individual basis. 
Bridgotte Van Schoyck, a physieal education instructor, began the program at tho College after running tho same program at a Gold's Cym Athletic & Medical Center in Bull'alo, Mich. Van Sehoy1~k said she found it to be vory success­ful at Gold's and hopes to aehieve the same success at Saint Mary's. 
"The women really seem to be excited about it. We are try­ing to make exereise fun," she said. "The contest runs right up to the week before spring break so I think it will bn suc­

~~essful." 
"Belles for Filrwss" began Monday and nnds right bnf'orn spring break. In order to address other issues assodatnd with exereisn and dieting, tlwre will be weekly lectures during the program. 
Talks will range from topics sueh as leaming to monitor heart. rates to nutritional facts and in formation. The Jnetures are meant to inform partiei­pants about problems with nat­ing disorders and over-exerdsn that many women face. 
Van Schoyek said she could not give an exaet number at this point, but handnd out dosn to 300 rngistration f'orms. 
Many students said they are flxcited to bn participating in tlu1 program. 
Freshman Brittany Fitzpatrick said she likes the eompetition aspect. 
"It's better to have a eompllli­tion bneause people arn natu­rally competitive," Fitzpatriek said. "Thn prizes and timing of' it ending right bnf'ore spring brnak help a lot as wnll." 
Krist1m Briekley -a fresh­man nwrnbllf of the learn "Will Work for Food" -said .she is exeited about the tnam aspect of' the program. 
"We exercise al'ter elass together," she said. "It makes it morn l'un and thorn is more motivation to go and work out." 
Contact Laura Kleinschmidt at lkleinO I @saintmarys.edu 
PLatinum 
Citigroup, Deloitte, Ernst &Young, General Electric, Goldman Sachs & Co, Johnson &Johnson, JP Morgan, KPMG, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Target, & UBS 
c;oLD{ Procter & Gamble 
siLver 

EDS, Hewlett-Packard, Talbots &The Vanguard Group 

The Diversity Reception 
is a networking event designed to allow students to connect and build relationships with organizations that embrace and promote diversity. 
Faculty and Staff are encouraged to attend! 
The Diversity Reception Noon -2:30pm precedes Winter Career and Internship Fair 4pm-Bpm at the Joyce Center. 
Students who R.S.V.P. by january 24th will receive 25 free personalized business cards. To R.S.V.P. visit The Career Center website! Click on "undergraduates" or "graduates", click "Diversity" and hit the "Diversity Reception" shamrock! 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, Februaruy 1, 2006 
of a secure and politically sta­ble Iraq in a global setting.

Iraq 

"When countries feel inse­cure about their neighbors,
continued from page 1 

they want to sleep with bigger 
guns under their pillows," of political turmoil, and said Lindley, regarding the argued a continued involve­international response that ment in Iraqi affairs would might follow if Iraq's present not facilitate or hasten the internal conflicts continue to war-torn country's transition· escalate. into democracy. Lindley suggested that to 
Each panelist was given 10 maintain order in the region. minutes to explain and defend the United States must his respective viewpoint. restructure its forces and con­
Jordan stressed the impor­centrate on key locations, tance of understanding that a such as oil-rich areas, to secure, politically stable and avoid fighting sporadic battles democratic Iraq is a long­that do not substantially term goal, and that through advance the effort to maintain the current condition-based peace in the country. policies being implemented. He predicted, however, that the United States is helping the steadily declining Iraq slowly move toward that approval rate of the American state. people towards continued 
He emphasized the United involvement in Iraq will force States' close monitoring and the Bush administration to study of statistics and figures withdraw some of its armed -such as the number of car forces -though he said it is bombs diffused every day and clear Iraqi nationalism is still the country's growing GDP -not strong enough to hold the to understand the Iraqi politi­country together on its own. cal and economic situation. Lopez took the podium to 
Jordan also urged the gen­refute Lindley's argument that eral public to realize that a a persistent American pres­Lopez said the United States attended the discussion was very well defended, and nation emerging from decades ence in Iraq could consider­armed forces are not able to applauded the eloquent and only makes us all realize that of oppressive authoritarian ably facilitate the country's contain the daily violence, well-researched arguments of regardless of whether or not rule cannot be rebuilt democratization. which has not substantially the three panelists. you originally supported the overnight, and a lasting victo­Lopez argued the United decreased despite achieve­Kroc Institute graduate stu­war, it is crucial that we all ry in Iraq will not come with States should not send any ments such as the constitu­dent John Filson said he think about the position in one decisive event, but rather more troops to the region tional referendum and the thought the discussion had which we've put our country, slowly with time's passing. because its intelligence and recent democratic elections. certain limitations to take into and the Iraqis' country as 
"There will be no battleship strategy fail to fully grasp the Like Lindley, he said the consideration. well," freshman Michael Missouri in this war," said reality of the Iraqi people or current strategy toward Iraq "One thing that I think real­Angulo said. Jordan, referring to the site of recognize that the country has is not an effective one -but ly limits this debate, and that "What will happen next with Japan's formal surrender to entered .a phase in its history chiefly because it fails to we must all recognize, is that Iraq is everybody's concern, the United States after World that will now run its course understand the complexity of we cannot speak on behalf of and not just that of politicians War II. regardless of any military the country's political state the Iraqis," Filson said. "A lot and legislators in 
Lindley, the second panelist interventions to end the con­and because the motives that of people here today spoke Washington," sophomore Joe to take the podium, followed flict. drive decision-makers in about what the Iraqi people Murphy said. "I believe stu­Jordan's remarks by also urg­He compared the Iraqi tur­Washington are entirely polit­want and need, but this is dents need to become ing the general public to real­moil to that of Afghanistan ical. speaking from a perspective involved in our country's deci­ize that a precipitated with­and Colombia, where deep "We're in a political war, my we can't possibly have." sion-making process now drawal of American troops divisions between different friends," Lopez said. "This Other students said the topic more than ever, because the from Iraq would only propel groups have led to decades of war is not about the safety of of the panel should be impor­stakes are really high." the Middle Eastern country violence, kidnappings, daily Iraq anymore, but about our tant to all citizens, especially into a complete civil war. attacks and unrest within the coming elections." students. Contact Marcella Berrios at 
Ile strossed tho significance countries' respective borders. Students and professors who "Each viewpoint exposed aberrios@nd.edu 
reminded her of experiences with her own grandmother.

Exhibit 

"Memories of my grandmoth­continued from page I er's house inspired the colors [of the painting]." Gama sa.id. 
The exhibit -which, after Fellow and Saint Mary's assis­leaving Saint Mary's on March tant English professor Maria 3, will travel to museums and Melendez, one of the exhibi­galleries nationwide -was tion's founders, gave a presen­first conceived in 2003 when tation during the opening that National Endowment for the included a reading of her Arts (NEA) Chairman Dana poem "Hemedio." Gioia visited Notre Dame's 
"[The exhibit is aboutf artists campus and suggested a proj­responding to poetry," ect that spurred dialogue Melendez said. between two forms of art. 
Melendez said the inspira­Notre Dame Institute for tion for her poem -which is Latino Studies Fellow hung next to Saint Mary's Francisco Aragon and alumna Hegina Diaz's work Melendez developed the proj­"Pass Back Through Me" -ect with backing from both the dealt with wolves returning to University and College and their native area in Colorado. help from the NEA that includ­
"[The poem·is about] what it ed a grant and Gioia personal­might mean to live in an area ly helping select artists, where wild wolves are present according to Aragon. as well," Melendez said. "We wanted to pursue pro­
Diaz shared her own process posals that fostered dialogue as an artist, first reading all between art genres," Aragon Melendez' poems, choosing said. "Remedio" and creating a work Both art and poetry enthusi­inspired by the "nature-based, asts who viewed the exhibit engaging" poem. Diaz said her Friday night said the project particular choice of poetry was was a success, and the gallery due to the deep connection she was indeed abuzz with "dia­felt to the work. logue," as Aragon and 
"It hit," she said. "I knew Melendez had hoped. what it was saying. Not neces­Notre Dame associate profes­sarily the wolves part ... but it sor of French Louis went a lot deeper." MacKenzie, a poetry aficiona­
During the presentation, do, said he was struck by the Melendez also road "La work and impressed with the Bufadora," by Emmy Perez, exhibit as a whole. and a note from the author. "It's very ... present," he Espeninza Gama, tho artist said. "It has a kind of vibrance who based her painting "Luna that I like." de Siempre" on Perez's work, 


told the audience the poem Contact Nicole Zook at Visitors gather in the Saint Mary's Moreau Gallery Friday to socialize and view artwork inspired touched her personally and zook8928@saintmarys.edu by various Latino poets. 




ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, February I, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

U.N. reports on Iran nuclear threat 
VIENNA, Austria-The U.N. nuelear watchdog agnney said in a report Tuesday that Iran obtained documents and drawings on thn black market that snrve no other pur­pose than to make an atomie warhead. Tehran warnnd of an "nnd of diplomaey" if plans to refer it to tlw U.N. Seeurily Council are carried out. 
The report by the agency, ahead of a meet­ing of its 35-mmnber board Thursday, also eonli rnwd in formation roeen tly provided by diplomats familiar with the Iran probn that Tehran has no( started small-seale uranium enridmwnt sincn announeing it would earli­Pr this month. 
Nevnrtlwlnss, tho lindings added to pres­sure to reli1r Tnhran to the Security Council within days. Such a move, Iran said, would lead to a halt in surprise U.N. inspections beginning Saturday and prompt it to rosumo froztm nudnar activiti(1S. 
Hamas group seeks financial aid 
HAMALLAI I. W11st Bank -;\ senior llamas official said Tunsday the Islamie militant group is alrnady looking for new sourens of runding after tlw international community tlHIHtlerwd to CUt ofl" aid, Warning that llamas will not lw "blackmailed." 
Osama llarndan. a nwmber of the group's nxilnd leadership, spoke a day al'ter intnrna­tional donors said millions of dollars in aid 1~ould be in jnopardy if llamas dons not change its violent ways. 
llamas will likt1ly find it diffkult to per­suade Muslim nations to make up a shortfall from a Western aid eut, and the throat of no rnorwy rnmains thn international communi­ty's best wnapon to gnt llamas to modnratn its idnology. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Alito confirmed to Supreme Court 
WASIIINGTON -Samunl ;\lito took his placn on tlw Suprmne Court Tunsday aftnr winning S!HJaln confirmation, a pnrsonal triumph for thn son of an Italian immihrrant and a political miln­stonn in Prnsident Bush's eampaign to givn thn judidary a mow mnsnrvative east. 
Th11 5H-42 Snnatn votn was largely along party linns as I>nmtHTats registered overwhelming opposition to Bush's choke to rnplaee Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, whose rulings have lwlped uphold abortion righL'i, allirmativo action and ollwr lngal prncndenl'i of thn past 50 years. 
Bush hailed ;\lito as "a brilliant and fair-mind­ml judgo who strictly intnrprots the Constitution and laws and does not legislative from the hmteh." 
Coretta Scott King, age 78, dies 
;\TI ANT;\ -Corolla Scott King, who worknd to knnp hnr husband's drnam alivn with a ehin­lwld-high graee and snrenity that made her a powprful symbol of the Hnv. Martin Luther King Jr.'s crnnd of brothnrhood and nonviolence, dind Ttwsday. Slw was 7H. 
Tlw "first lady of thn eivil rights movement" dind in her slonp during thn night at an alterna­tiw nwdicinn elinic in Mexieo, her family said. Arrangnrnnnl'i wew bning madn to lly thn body bark to Atlanta. 
Shn had bonn rncovnring from a serious strokn and hnart attark sufl'nrnd last August. Just two wnnks ago, slw madn her first publie appnaranm in a ynar on tho 11VI~ of lwr latn hus­band's birthday. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Republicans change highway plan 
INI>IANAI'OLIS -With blessings from Hnpublican Ciov. Miteh I>aninls, llousn Hnpublieans rnadn changes to his "Major Movos" highway plan on Tunsday to solidily thn support nnndnd to pass it without I>nmoerat votes and advance it to the SmmtP. 
Although the bill deared the amendment stage Tuesday, it still must win overall pas­sage by midnight Thursday to move to tho other chamber. 
Bush delivers State of the Union 
President speaks to a Congress steeped in partisanship of issues on policy agenda 
Associated Press  
WA.;;I IINGTON-President  
Bush. mid-sentence in his  
State of tho Union address,  
got an narful Tuesday night  
from both sides of the sharply  
divided Congress.  
Democrats stood in unity  
and cheered when Bush  
lamented how Congress  
failed to aet last ynar "on my  
proposal to save Social  
Seeurity."  
It was the Hepublicans'  
turn to cheer when Bush,  
shaking his fingP.r, continued,  
"ynt tho rising eost of entitle­ 
ments is a problem that is not  
going away."  
Then, filr a moment, there  
was bipartisanship.  
Both sides of the aisle  
applaudnd whnn Bush asknd  
thnm to join him in setting up  
a commission to examine the  
impact of aging Baby  
Boomers on Social Seeurity,  
Medicare and Medieaid  
spnnding.  
But with Congress fadng  
midterm elections in  
Novembnr, tim partisan mood  
dnarly hung over chamber as  
Bush, hampnrnd by big budg­ 
et dnfidL'i, ollered his modest  
prohrram.  
lie dndarnd that Ameriea  
must break iL'i long dnpnnd­ 
ence on Midnast oil and AP  
rebuked eritics of his stay­President Bush gives his fifth State of the Union speech to a joint session of Congress  
the-course strategy for the Tuesday on Capitol Hill in Washington.  
unpopular war in Iraq.  
"i\melica is addietnd to oil,  "llindsight alone is not wis­ Bush declarnd that the "tho  Virginia Gov. Timothy M.  
which is often imported from  dom," Bush said. "And sec­ state of our union is strong"  Kainn, ehosnn to delivnr tlw  
unstable parl'i of the world,"  ond-guessing is not a strate­ despite Americans' anxieties  responsn lilr thn Dnmocral'i,  
Bush said as he sought to  gy."  about the war in Iraq, tho  scolded Bush on the soaring  
drive the nlection-ynar agen­ In an unscripted moment,  m~onomy and soaring 1merhry  national dobt, thn f'rustratnd  
da.  anti-war activist Cindy  costs. Oil prices are inching  eiTort to rebuild thn hurri­ 
Hojeding ealls for the with­ Sheehan, the mother of a litll­ toward $70 a barrnl, throw­ cane-battnred Gulf' Coast,  
drawal of troops from Iraq,  en soldier in Iraq, was taken  ing a doud ovnr the neonomy  Mndieaid cuts and otlwr  
Bush said, "There is no poaee  into eustody by poliee in the  and pinching Amerieans'  issuos. On Iraq, Kaine said  
in retreat." lie al<>o slapped at  House gallery just before  pocketbooks.  that Amerieans wnrn givnn  
those who eomplain he took  Bush spoke to a joint session  Bush callnd li>r incrnasnd  "inaccurate information  
tho country to war on the  of Congress. She was escort­ lilderal research into altnrna­ about the rna.'ions ti~r invad­ 
erroneous grounds that Iraq  ed from the visitors gallery  tive fuels such as ethanol  ing" and that troops wnrn  
possessed weapons or mass  after she caused a disruption,  made from weeds or wood  givnn body armor that was  
dostruetion.  a Capitol Police ollieial said.  chips instead of corn.  inadnquatn.  

IRAQ 

New video of German hostages airs 
said the kidnappnrs thrnatenod to kill of Carroll, who was seized in Baghdad
Associated Press 

the hostages, Thomas Nitzschke and on Jan. 7. 
BAGI IDAD -A roadside bomb killnd Hene Branunlich, if thPir demands wnrn Eleven bodies wnrn discovnn~d in a a British soldier Tuesday in southnrn not mot within 72 hours. truck in tho volat.iln wnstnrn Baghdad Iraq, the lOOth Briton killed since the The video eam11 a day alt11r U.S. jour­neighborhood of' Ghazaliyah. police war started nearly three years ago, nalist Jill Carroll appoarnd wnnping and said. All had benn shot in thn lwad, while two German hostages were veilnd in footage also aired on al­police addnd. The livn other bodins. also shown on a nnw video as kidnappnrs Jaznora. mnn, wnrn lillmd rwar a snwagn plant threatened to kill them if Germany U.S. ollkials said ell'orL'i were undnr in the nastnrn Hustamiyah distriet, a doesn't eea.<>e cooperation with the Iraqi way to Iron Carroll, a 28-year-old frne­lavoritn dumping ground lhr victims of government within three days. lancnr lilr the Christian Seience Monitor, snctarian death squads. 
Elsewhere, polke limnd the bodies of but they have rulnd out meeting the kid­It wa.'i not known if thny W11fl~ Sunni 16 young men -handculli.1d and blind­nappers' dP.mand to release all Iraqi Arabs or Shiitns. ExtrmnisL'i from both f(,fded -in separatn parL'i of Baghdad, women in detention. communities have targntnd thn othnr in and gunmen shot to death the wife and "Everything is being done to work a snries of reprisal killings that havn two sons of a Sunni Arab derie north of with thoso who might have inllu!mco, daimed hundn1ds of livns and sharp­the capital in a series of apparent see­and there are an awful lot of people erwd snctarian tnnsions as Iraqi politi­tarian reprisal killings. who are ealling for hor rolease," U.S. cians try to form a nnw govnrnnwnt 
Al-Jazeera television aired the video­Secretary of State Condoleezza Hiee after Doe. 15 national elnetions. tape of the two German hostages and said Tuesday en routo to Washington In another appanmt rnprisal killing, said the kidnappers demanded from London. gunmen shot dead thn wifn and two Gnrmany dose it'> embassy in Iraq and Heportors Without Borders, an inter­sons of Sunni Arab cleric Qassim stop coopnrating with the Iraqi govern­national journalist advocacy ~:,rroup, also Daham ai-Ilamdani Monday night in mont. said it would sent represmttatives to the Muqdadiyah, about 60 miles north of 
An AI-Jazeera producer, eontaeted by Middle East soon to promote a cam­Baghdad, police said. Tho dnric was not telephone at the station in Doha, Qatar, paign in the Arab media for the release at the house at the time of tho attack. 

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 1, 2006 

RoiDe 
continued from page 1 
Archbishop William Levada, Pontifical Council for Justice and the Peace president Cardinal Renato Raffaele Martino and Congregation for Divine Worship prefect Cardinal Francis Arinze -are dispersed throughout the week. 
Those meetings, Jenkins said, are one of Notre Dame's main reasons for the trip. 
"To build relationships [with the Vatican] as we would with people in the government in the U.S., or any organization we interact with -that's one dimension," Jenkins said. 
But not the only dimension. Jenkins said he views the trip as a spiritual encounter for 
himself,  the  Officers  and  
Trustees.  
"It is a  pilgrimage for us,  

which means that it's a journey to a place that has importance for Catholics because it was the plaee _to which St. Peter came to preach the Gospel, and his 
suceessor -the "[Pope Benedict to St. Peter and successor of St. the apostles,
XVI] is very 
Peter is the bishop through the of Rome -is interested in offices of the always seen as a universities and Church." relative to unite While he
very interested in 
the Church, to stressed the phys­bring it together, Notre Dame and its ical presence of to serve the whole work.'' the Church in Church," Jenkins Rome, Jenkins did said. "I see our not undermine
Father John Jenkins
trip here as con­the importance of 
University president 
necting each of us the intangible 
with the mission of the universal Church ... [and] we have become conseious of that, we understand our role in the uni­versal Church." 
But Jenkins will not meet pri­vately with the pope during the trip. The reason, both Senior Executive Assistant Father James McDonald and Vice President for Publie Affairs and Communication Hilary Crnkovieh said, is that Pope Benedict XVI does not feel "comfortable" with addressing private audiences. 
Jenkins said while the Pope "understands English very well," he is "not as comfortable in speaking it" and often uses a translator. 
Jenkins met the former Cardinal Hatzsinger during a 2001 trip with then-University President Father Edward Malloy. 
"It was interesting," Jenkins said. "He is a somewhat quiet person. He doesn't come on strong. He is very thoughtful in his responses ... He's very interested in universities and very interested in Notre Dame and its work." 
Jenkins said he hoped Notre Dame would work together 

·with the Vatiean during his presidency on what he described as "a common mis-
Proprietors

·-------------

..
I 
Warren &Linda I I I I I I I
9-irsf Or~f;inaf'Azza in 'Jonm! 
I I
Since 1951 
I I
$2 off Any Size Pizza I Eat in Only I I Expires March 31, 2006 I 
I I
537 North St Louis • South Bend, IN I 574-233-24(,4 I
.. _____________ .. 
sion." 
There's a "sense of mutual understanding," he said, that allows collaboration on com­plex, challenging issues. 
"And a university, [with] its intellectual resources, its inquiry, its research -it has to be at the center of confronting those questions and giving good answers to them," Jenkins said. "So I think those in the curia see that we need to work together so the Church can be enriched by Notre Dame's work and Notre Dame can be enriched by its connection to the universal Church." 
That connection, Jenkins said, is rooted in the Church's physical history -history that can be discovered in Rome. 
"The Catholic Church has its origins in the life and death and resurrection of Jesus Christ and what that meant. To be Catholic is to be connected with that," Jenkins said. "In the Catholic Church, that connection is made in particular ... through -what's called the visible Church, that succession of bish­ops that 'trace their origin back 
aspect of 
Catholicism, "because what really unites us is the faith each of us have, and have together." 
The title of today's academic conference, "Contribution of Catholic Universities to the Church and Culture," seems to resemble the topic of Jenkins' series of addresses last week ­academic freedom and Notre Dame's Catholic character. 
But Jenkins said the trip to Rome was planned more than a year ago and called. any corre­lation between his addresses last week and today's discus­sion purely coincidental. 
"The reason I gave that address at that time was simply because eertain performances were coming up, we had dis­eussions behind the scenes, and I felt it was an appropriate time to bring those discussions into the open and in fact [into] the whole community to partici­pate," Jenkins said. "It made sense to do that at the start of the semester, but there was no calculation [related to RomeJ." 
Jenkins said while he would discuss academic freedom broadly with the Vatican ofTi­cials he meets, he would not focus on the details of Notre Dame's situation or the campus controversy surrounding the Queer Film Festival and "The 

CLAIRE KELLEY!The Observer 
Statues of various saints on top of St. Peter's Basilica look over the Vatican in Vatican City 
Tuesday. Notre Dame trustees are meeting in Rome this week. 
Vagina Monologues." 
"I don't expect those [specific issuesJ to come up, but certain­ly to talk about our mission," he said. "We see our mission con­nected to the Church, and so obviously it makes sense to dis­cuss that and to help them understand what we're doing, help us connect with that broader mission." 
Jenkins has studied Pope 
John Paul II's writings on issues of academic freedom, specifi­cally the 1998 Ex Corde Ecclesiae document on Catholic universities. 
"I think that has to be a part of reflection on who we are," Jenkins said. "It's a constant item of reflection for us. What does it mean to be a Catholic university in the 21st century? All of our reflection on that must be informed by all rich­nesses of this tradition that goes baek two millennia, part of which is what John Paul wrote, but also what other people said. I think [from I the extent of this whole tradition, our reflection will be better, and we'll be a better University." 

Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

Spring Break capital of Texas! Featured on MTV, 48 Hours, Hannity 
8e Calmes, and Travel Channel Kegs allowed on the beach Thousands of college students Seven nrriles of beach Only l/2 hour to Mexico 

1-800-222-4010 
www.sheraton.com/southpadreisland 

~hy Sheraton Beach? 
Right on the hottest beach Beach activities 8e water sports Oversized party jacuzzi Largest hotel pool 8e swim-up bar Daily drink specials Walking distance to hottest clubs Restaurant on property wI specials 



THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Wednesday, February I, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

10,864.86 -35.06 
}ones 
A 
Upt Same: Down: Composite Volt 1,771 147 ~18 2,721,311,1t 
AMEX I .~60.83 +21.9.11 NASDAQ 3,144.96 +0.06 NYSE 8,106.55 +1.30 S&PSOO I ,2HO.OH -5.12 NIKK£1(Tokyo) 16,633.55 -16.27 FTSE IOO(London) 5,760.30 -19.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ II 0 TR (QQQQ) -0.45 -0.19 42.( ISUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +2. 97 +0.13 4.~ MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.54 +0.15 28.1 INTEL CP (INTC) -1.82 -0.40 21.i CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -1.69 -0.32 18.~ 


30-YEAR BOND -0.18 -0.08 45.2 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.64 +0.28 43.7 5-YEAR NOTE -0.49 -0.23 46.8 3-MONTH BILL +0.04 +0.02 44.6 
Commodltles 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.43 67.92 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +4.90 575.5( PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.35 75.9E 
fxcha Rates 
YEN 
117.18C EURO 
0.822 POUND 
0.562 

IN BRIEF 
Fed. Reserve raises interest rates 
NI•:W YOBK-Dislwartonod invnstors bid storks lower Tunsday al'tnr tlw Fmlnral Hnsnrvn, raising inh•r·!•st ratns /ill' tlw 14th limo in rwarly two Yl'ars. l'aiiPd to givn Wall Stn~Pt a dnar signal on wlwn thosP raln hikPs would end. !\ disap­pointing Parnings rnport l'rom (;oogle Inc. aftnr ilw rlosP ol' rngular trading madn it liknly thn lossns would ronlinun wlwn trading rnsurnnd WPdrwsday. 
( ;oogiP sulli~rnd il'i lirst oarnings "miss," with its J(,urth-quartPr rnsults falling bnlow tho mar-• kol.'s PXpPdations. Tndmology stO!:ks dropped in al'tnr-hours trading as invPstors nxprnssnd thoir dismay by soiling. 
Tlw h~d. in its statnmnnt accompanying its quarl!w-point inereasn in rates, said "some f'ur­tlwr policy lirrning may bn nnodml" to keep infla­tion undor eontrol -lnaving the door open fi>r anotlwr hikn at the nnxt mnnting in March and bnyond. 
Tho major indnxes wnre alrnitdy down ahead of' tho Jo'pd's dodsion-the last onn under outgo­ing <:hairman /\Ian (;rnnnspan -and the hint of' at lnust one morn ratn hikn lnl't investors um:er­l.ain. although most analysL'i fnlt tho program of continued. measurml ratn hikns was at an nnd. 
Europe approves Guidant's new stent 
INDI/\N/\l'OI.IS-Iiuropean rngulutors on Monday approvnd Guidant Corp.'s new drug­
.. coatod stmll. dnaring the way for the product to ho marknted in thn 25 eountrins of the I·:uropPan Union. Tlw lndianapolis-basnd company will launch tho Xionco V ovnrolimus eluting eoronary stent -an nxpandable mesh tube usnd to prop open clogg!HI hlood vnssnls -during the sncond quartor. Tlw drug 1:oating holps to prnvent sear tissue that could form nnw blockagns. Tlw XimH~n stont has not ynt heon submittnd to t.ho U.S. l't)()d and Drug /\dministmtion for approval. (;uidant agrnnd last wonk to a $27.2 billion acquisition by Natick, Mass.-basod Boston Srinntilk Corp.. muting a two-month-long hid­ding war with lwalth products giant .Johnson & .Johnson. Tlw taknovnr must still hn approvod hy shan~holders and n~gulators in the U.S. and l·:uropo. 
Wal-Mart exec. on trial for fraud 
Retail giant's former vice chairman pleads guilty to embezzelment, tax charges 
Associated Press  
FOHT SMITII. 1\rk. -!\  
f'ormor Wal-Mart Stores  
Inc. vico chairman who w_as  
a protoge ol' founder Sam  
Walton plnadnd guilty to  
fraud and tax charges  
Tunsday. admitting that he  
stole money. gift cards and  
mnrchandisn from the  
world's largost retailer.  
Tom Coughlin, 57, faces a  
maximum of 2X ynars in  
prison al'tnr plnading guilty  
t.o fivn counts of' wire fraud  
and o1w count ol' l'iling a  
falsn t.ax return. lin also  
1·ould bo l'innd $1.:{5 mil­ 
l ion.  
Tlw judgn ord1wnd a pre­ 
snntnneing rnport that will  
t.ako up to 14 wnnks to pre­ 
pare.  
Wai-Mart lawynrs  
n~li•rrnd Coughlin t.o fnderal  
prosecutors aftnr discovnr­ 
ing Coughlin had mnbnz­ 
zlml mmwy l'rom the com­ 
pany and used nxpnnse  
vouchnrs t.o buy products as  
varied as snakeskin boots,  
h unl.i ng trips and Bloody  
Mary mix. Thny estimated  
losses at up to $500,000.  
In fednral court, Coughlin  
spoko only whnn he was  
askod q tH~stions hy U.S.  
District .Judge Hobert·  
Dawson. 1\l'terward. AP  
dnl'ense lawyors issued a Former-Wal Mart Stores Inc. vice president Tom Coughlin, left, and his wife Cynthia  
statement. in which leave a Fort Smith, Ark. federal courthouse Tuesday.  
Coughlin accoptnd rnspon­ 
sibility for "serious personal  leasn a priva.tn hunting  in f'iseal 2005. Coughlin  ProSP!:ut.o rs roco111111 mHI­ 
mistakns injudgnwnt."  area. upgradn his pickup  held about $20 million in  ml a snnt!HH~n hut Dawson  
"This was not an easy  truek, buy liquor and a  W;ti-Mart stock, aecording  snalnd tlw phm agrmmwnt..  
docision. I rngrnt the  eooler, and rcr,nivn $3,100  to an SEC l'iling last  The judgn said lw was mn­ 
nmbarrassmnnt this rnattm·  in cash.  February.  cnrnnd that lw rnad many  
luis caused my family and  /\s thn company vice  The f'ormnr nxecut.ivn said  of' tlw plna dnal's dntails in  
f'rionds and I thank thnm  chairman, Coughlin  his guilty piPa was in tlw  nnwspapnrs lwf'orn any  
for their support, love and  received a base salary of  best interest of his family,  documnnts wnrn lih~d with  
friendship," Coughlin said  $1.03 million in his final  friends and community. lin  his court.  
in tho statement.  year with tho eompany. !\  remainnd a W;d-Mart  Nothing was mnntiOJwd in  
In documents filed with  filing with the Seeurities  eheerleader, asking associ­ court about rnst.itution.  
the court, Coughlin speeili­ and Exehange Commission  ates "to pull togt~ther in-l'ul­ Wai-Mart spoknswoman  
cally admitted defrauding  last /\pril said Coughlin also  filling Sam Walton's drnam  Mona Williams said tlw  
the company to pay for the  reecived $:Hl9 million in  of' creating thn world's  ordnal has b!wn "embar­ 
care of his hunting dogs,  bonuses and other ineome  greatest retailnr."  rassing and painful."  

ENGLAND 

European markets may consolidate 
Associated Press 

LONDON -The New York Stoek Exchange wants "a leadership role," Euronext is "keeping all its options open," and Australia's Maequarie Bank Ltd. sees clear potential in get­ting a slice of the market ­European stock markets are hot properties again. 
Macquarie and its $2.65 billion bid for the London Stock Exchange is the wild card in the paek as the players and analysts alike weigh the options or who might tnam with whom. 
"Tiwy all consider themselves to be on the global playing field and, as such. it's across the board eonsolida­tion bncausn the big guy wins," said Clem Chambnrs, ehiel' exeeutive of stock Web site /\DVFN. "In thn nxchange business. big is beautiful ­thorn's no sneond place." 
The London Stoek Exehange. a marquee name on both sides of the 
1\tlantic, is currently the prime tar­get. /\side from the Macquarie approach -which the Australian bank on Tuesday extended until fleb. 14 -it has reportedly held talks with Germany's Deutsche Boorse 1\G, a former failed suitor, and pan­European boursn Euronext NV. 
But the potential deals don't stop there. Euronext -which already owns the Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels and Lisbon stock exchanges -said carlinr this month that it is still con­sidering "all options" after major stakeholder New York hedge Fund /\tticus Capital urged it to revive stalled merger talks with Deutsehn Boorse. 
.lumping into the fray Sunday was Nnw York Stoek Exchange Chief Executivn .John Thain, who said the 
U.S. bourse wants to take a lnader­ship role as the stock market indus­try looks toward eonsolidation. 
Oetavio Marcnzi, the Paris-based 
chief' executive of' finaneial research firm Celent, said mnsolidation of the stoek markets made good economic sense. 
"The exchange business is very seale-led." Marenzi said. "Tiwy have a lot of fixed and vnry little variable costs once the initial inl'rastructurn is there. When you have thosn kinds of' eeonornins, pnople want to merge and get as much volume as possibln." 
Thain told reporters at the World Economic Forum in l>avos, Switzerland, that tlw Nnw York Stock Exehange wants "to play a IPadership role in the consolidation pi'!H:ess." 
/\sknd what companies tlw NYSii would target, Thain said it. was watching l>eutsdw Bonrsn, Euroiwxt and the London Stock Exchange negotiations, but didn't nlabomtn. 
llowevnr, analysts said that t.hn Nnw York Stock lixr.hange's position in n~lation to the Europ!~an bourses would limit its potPntial in Europn. 
Wednesday, February 1, 2006

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

ALLISON AMBROSEThe Observer A Teach for America staff member makes a presentation on the program in DeBartolo Hall Monday. The teacher training program has 150 corps members near and around hurricave-ravaged New Orleans and participants have struggled to continue educating amidst the cleanup. 
On Campus Junior Parent Weekend Special February 16-20, 2006 
Come early, stay late, same price! Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents. Weekend donation is $100.00 per parent, Whether you stay Two, three, or four nights. Rooms are available Thursday through Sunday. For reservations call 574-631-7512 or 574-631-9436 

Teach 
continued from page 1 
Gulf Coast. 
Pre-Katrina, the Teach for America program had 150 corps members in and around New Orleans. Floods from the disaster damaged the school where Hentges taught beyond repair, and she was forced fmd another way to serve. 
Some corps members returned to an outlying parish school in New Orleans that Katrina left unscathed; others worked for disaster recovery centers. Hentges, however, chose to work in Houston. She and 35 corps members chartered a school for New Orleans students who would remain -at least temporarily ­in the city to which they had been evacuated. 
The volunteers acquired a school building that had recently been closed due to low enroll­ment, a surprisingly nice facility, Hentges said. The quickly obtained one-year charter allowed classes to begin Oct. 3, a date that could have been earlier if not for Hurricane Rita. 
Although none of her former students would follow her to the charter school, Hentges said she does recall seeing four or five of them in the Astrodome in Houston. While Hentges remains unaware of the location of many, she said she has located a few more former students in Atlanta and Dallas. 
As for her current students in Houston, Hentges said many of 
· their families are not yet stable in their new envrron­ment. Some fami­lies still remain in hotels. Housing is not yet stable in New Orleans, so returning in the immediate future is not an option, although Hentges said the vast majority wish to return to their home. "A lot of kids are 
very homesick," Hentges said. "It's only natural, coming from an area where the people have so much pride in their culture and their city." 
During the first few weeks of classes, teachers placed more emphasis on the needs of stu­dents than on covering new material. As a kindergarten teacher, Hentges said she allowed her students to nap if needed, or talk to the in-house psychologist about issues result­ing from the hurricane. 

The school received a number of grants for group therapy, and Hentges said she hopes this will 
"There are definitely still areas that need to be cleaned up, but the city is beginning to show signs ofvibrancy." 
Melissa Hentges alumna 

make a real impact on the children. Since Teach for America focuses on those areas most in need, Hentges said she feels the stu­dents have been placed in a tremen­dously tough situa­tion, realizing many already had issues to deal with before Katrin<J. 
Hentges made a few trips back to New Orleans since 

the devastation of the hurricane. She said while the breadth of the destruction was difficult to wit­ness, the city has been making a slow but steady comeback. 

"One month after, the city was hard for me to see,". Hentges said. "There are definitely still areas that need to be cleaned up, but the city is beginning to show signs of vibrancy." 
Despite the challenges, Hentges said she still feels lucky in her opportunity to serve. 

"Teach for America is a great experience," she said. "If you are interested in any aspects of edu­cation, I would definitely recom­mend it. Once you walk into the classroom, you realize that it is not only about education, you are dealing with so many social issues." 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 


Wednesday, February I, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Floor 

continued from page 1 
tural divorsity on Saint Mary's rampus. ILC program din1etor Tracy Hohison said. 
"Tiw program givos studonts an opportunity to loarn morn about thnir JHWrs. as woll as lnarning morn about thnm­snlvns." slw said. "It provides an nnvironnwnl for studnnts who know that this is some­thing thoy want to know more about and want to havn it sup­portnd outsidn thn classroom." 
Hobison said llw rnsidnnls on thn lloor rnprnsnnt a variety of nthnir, cultural and socio-eco­nomic: ba1:kgrounds. 
"This ynar thnrn urn about 20 n1sidnnts. and that number tnnds to bn tho avnragn," Hobison ally ineludn rntreats, an annual trip to Chieago and diseussion groups about current world issuns, Hobison said. 
"We also do fun things like go to the pottnry place and do an art projnct, and in the past we have dono cultural danees," she said. "I think that learning noeds to be interesting and fun." 
Many residents say the evonts. which arn partially sub­sidiznd by CWIL. arn not only valuabln in understanding dif­fnrnnt culturns but makn living on tho floor exciting. The floor's Hosidential Advisor, Mary Anne Scholl. said boing on tho floor allows her to plan more activities around diversity -whethnr it be cultural, racial. rnligious or socio-eco­nomic. 
"On this lloor, there are a lot 
more peoplo 
who are recep­

said. "Somn ynars "I wanted to learn tive to those it is a little bit activities,"
about those 
highor, but this Schell said. "It's 

snmnstor I think dif.{erent cultures always oxciting 
wn havo right on my own so I and eye-open­around 20 rnsi­ing."
figured this would 

dnnts." Saint Mary's 
Whiln Hohison be a good floor to senior said slw would live on." Tanushree Bnra nnrouragP all lived in the com­Saint Mary's stu­munity for two
Kimberly Hodges 

dnnts to livn in tho years and said 
sophomore

ILC. hopnful rnsi­noor-sponsorod dnnts must rom-events wore the pinto an applica-best part about tion procnss. Tlw application tho program. n~quirns studonts to writn an "They always do speeial nssay nxplaining why they are things like takn trips to soe intnrnstnd in living on tho lloor. plays and 1mt at unique rnstau­Studnnts are also rnquirnd to rants. Almost all of the activi­providn two rharactnr refer­ties have a cultural theme," nnri)S and must h1~ in good aea­Bora said. "Tho things we did dnmir and rnsidnntial standing. together worn a lot of fun." 
Tho idoal 1:andidatn for thn Hesidents learn about cultur­program would be a student al diversity not only through who is opnn to l11arning about program activities, but also by divnrsity on Saint Mary's ram­simply living with one another. pus. Hohison said. "I wanted a different living 
"I am looking for a pnrson experience from the rest of who is nxcitnd about this eampus. I thought the floor opportunity, who has an inter­would be mom mixed as far as ns! in intnn:ultural issuns." shn of people with different cul­said. "I also look for somnone tures," sophomore residont who is opnn to lnarning new Kimberly llodges said. "I want­things. as wnll as is open to ed to loam about those differ­sharing about llwmsnlvns." ent cultures on my own, so I 
On1:n arn~ptnd into tho eom­figured this would be a good munity, students are encour­lloor to live on." agml to partidpatn in program­Like Hodges, resident Zanna sponsorml nvnnts. Events usu-Afanasjeva said she values having people from different cultures as her neighbors. Native to Latvia, Afanasjeva is a junior at the College and has spent two yoars as a rnsidnnt in tho Intercultural Living Community. Afanasjeva said shn enjoys living on the floor so she can not only loarn about other pnople's cultures. but share her own nxperienees. 


"My favoritn thing is just hav­ing difl'nnmt people around me from different backgrounds," she said. "Last year, I just made a lot of frionds, and somn of us still live together." 
Both Hodges and Aranasjova said thny recommend living in the Intercultural Living Community to all Saint Mary's students. Hodges said while you can't force people to live on the 11oor, she thinks all stu­dents eould benefit from the experience. Afanasjeva said she recommends the program bneause it allows students who have never been exposed to diverse backgrounds to learn how to live with people who may be difl'erent from them. 
"A lot of people arn interest­ed now going into something to do with other countries, like international business, and I think it would rnatly benefit them," Afanasjeva said. "Mooting other peoplo and doing those aetivities also helps you get to know yourself and who you are." 
Despite positive word of mouth advertisement from the students who live in the ILC, Hobison said the most dillieult aspect of her job is raising awareness and intorest about the program. Advertising the living community in a way that will grab students' attention is hard, she said. 
"One of the most difficult things is getting the word out," Hobison said. "I know thorn arc still several students who don't know about it, and I am trying to learn how to advertise in a way that thnse students will pay attention." 
Afanasjeva also said she thinks the program niH1ds an inernase in advnrtismnent and awareness about the benefits to living on the floor. 
"I think we need to improve the marketing of this program beeause I don't think that most people know it exists," Afanasjova said. "It is a good opportunity for people to learn a lot of things about culturn. It is ono thing to have a class. but it is another to actually meet pnople who come from a difl'nr­ent background." 
Hobison said it is also dillieult to dispel the misconception that !loor is only for studnnts of eolor. In the past, Hobison said, the majority of program partie­ipants have actually been Caueasian. 
"The program is open to all studonts who are curious and want to know more about other cultures and about their own culturo, because everyone has a culture," she said. 
As for the future of tho pro­gram, both residents and Hobison said with strongnr advertising and promotion, thoy hope more students will capitalize on the opportunity. Hobison hopes to eventually nxpand the program to several floors in Hegina I !all. 
"At most other schools and universities, international stu­dents and American students don't even livo in the same building," Hobison said. "llnro at Saint Mary's, international students and American stu­dents can live togethor. And that is a unique opportunity." 
Contact Lauren Lavelle at llavelO1 @saintmarys.edu 
Senior IOwa Boyd -who heads the Senatn Minority All'airs 


Diversity 
committee and sits on the 
continued from page 1 Committnn on Cultural Divnrsity 
and the Studnnt Advisory Croup paper, increasnd fc>cus on diversi­-is onn of' thosn studnnL'i. ty issues in admissions and better "It is dnl'initely frustrating," communication of the University's Boyd said. "You li1el if I increasing successes, Linney said. diversity! was eomplet11ly a 
"We feel like we've sort of got­University priority, it wouldn't ten in tho simplistic activity of take so much student initiatiw to just counting people, !saying! we got the ball rolling ... You only have diversity in this eatogory want to hear that ehange comes and this catngory," Linney said. slow li>r so long." "Wo really want to focus on a Boyd has bonn pushing for a diverse eommunity, who wn arn. cultural eornpetnncy requirement the way we think about things." in tho curriculum, potentially 
Linnoy is the chair of tho rnquiring students to take a cur­University Committnn on Cultural rently nxisting class on sonw Diversity, a group that recon­issun of eulturn or diversity that vened this year after several would erosslist with another years of inactivity. department. The resolution, 
The committee, composed of which passed in Senate last administrators, alumni, faculty, semester. will face tho Faculty stall' and students, created a list Senate for the second time of possible ways to build a moro tonight. diverse climato at Notre Dame. While Boyd recognizes the Linney said she presented that University's hard work in pushing list to Jenkins, who then seleeted for diversity, she said she thinks the four specific activities ho its current system, a semningly wanted to target. tangled web of dill'enmt diversity­
Unney said she believes several focused committees, is a hin­past efforts did not achieve full drance to achieving tangible success because people "thought rnsuiL'i. too big" and undernstimatnd the llnr eommittee creatnd a list of importance of smaller stops. bnnehmarking ideas for lhn These four goals. on the other Univnrsity after a student asked if hand, can be achieved this yoar, tho University currently had Linney said. benchmarks during a Student 
She said tho committee would Advisory Group moeting -with 
"network" to lind students and the rnply being, "We don't have a faculty interestnd in proposing plan. That's why we have groups and dirocting projects examining likn this." topics of diversity at Notre Damo. "I fool likn I the nlli>rtl nends to 
Graduate and undnrgraduate be housed under onn body ­admissions are the third main they kind of nned to scrap these focus, Linney said, ad hoe eommit­but it's not about tnes," Boyd said. percentagn quotas 'Tve snen probably
"Image is power.fitl. 
or straight number four final reports 
erunching. and I think we are from similar eom­"It's how !faculty trying to find ways mittees. You don't and administra­sen any eontinuity." 
oftelling the story 
tors I assist Whilo slw attest­
ofthe successes
!there arnl so nd to the system's many steps in the we've had with complnxity, process," sho said. Shavers said it's
diversity."
"You can't admit a not noeessarily a diverse student bad thing. body without Frances Shavers "It's complex. It's diverse appli-executive assistant to deeentralized. The cants." good thing is peo­
the president
More emphasis needs to be placed on attracting a grnater numbnr of applicants with diverse back­grounds and getting a greater percentage of those applicant<> to accept admission, Linney said. 
The eommunieations aspoct is to ensuro the University publi­cizes the progress it makes toward developing the climate, something Linney believes is cur­rently lacking. 
"I think that Notro Dame, either we think of oursnlves as a non-diverse community, or wn present oursnlves that way," she said. "Thoro arc lots of things happoning hnre. We're not doing a good job communicating. Whatover's happening, wo'ro not getting credit." 
Frances Shavers, executivo assistant to the prnsident, agreed that Notre Dame's imago can sometimes difTer !,'Teatly from il<> reality. 
"I think it dopends on who you talk to and whore you go. Because you can talk to 10 differ­ent people horn, live of them wilt say it's diverse, and it's related to where thoy came from," Shavers said. "Image is powerful. and I think wo arn trying to find ways of telling the story of the succoss­es we've had with divnrsity. [University Prnsident Emeritus! Fathor IEdwardl Malloy ... made amazing strides for the Univnrsity in the mission to increase divorsi­ty, and again not just in numbnrs, but also in sort of the quality of life and the community." 
But for studnnts who see Notrn Dame as not as diverse as it could be, the situation is frustrat­ing. 
ple within their 
areas take respon­sibility for the goals of the institu­tion broadly," she said. 
"Within the departmenl'i, thny ean say wo want to focus on a number of issues, onn of thnm bning divorsity, and they'll ernatn a eornmittne ... to foeus on that. And we nneourage thoso things to happnn bncausn that's whnrn a lot of the work happens and that's whorn a lot of oxportiso and knowledg11 resides," shn said. 
"I can't say that it's nithnr posi­tive or nngativn. Anything can bn good one day and dmllenging tho next day. So I think for us thn kny is communicating it as a priority ... setting it up to tho ontire Univorsity eommunity." 
And tho mentality seems to be changing. Boyd said tho attitudo was all businnss whnn slw sat down at hnr first Committnn on Cultural Diversity mnnting. 
"Evnryonn was saying, 'l.1~t's not just havn anotlwr l:ornrnit­tne,"' Boyd said. "We don't nnnd eommittnns -we need ehangn. We nnnd things to happnn now." 
Shavnrs <u:knowledged thn path ahnad on thn road to "ernatn a eomrnunity." 
"I think wn'vn rnad1~ strid11s, and I think wn have work to do," shn said. "It's dillkult to ratn it beeause it's a work in progress. and it's dnwloping, and I think onee we have tho work of tlw committee moving morn in place toward sornn of thosn goals that I Linnnyl talked about. t.hnn wn'll have a bntter idea of assessing." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhanna1 @nd.edu 


page 10 
I I I I I I 
I
I. 
Wednesday, February 1, 2006

The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT 


cu 
CCA Strategies Center for Social Concerns, Notre Dame 
Central Intelligence Agency 
C.H. Robinson Worldwide Chicago Police Department Citigroup Citizens Action Coalition City Year Cleveland Clarity Consulting Coachmen Industries Coca-Cola North America College Football Hall of Fame Countrywide Financial Corporation Credit Suisse Crowe Capital Markets Crowe Chizek and Company Deloitte Deutsche Bank DHL Express E&J Gallo Winery EchoStar Communications 
(Dish Network) 
EDS 
Enterprise Rent A Car 
Epic Systems 
Ernst &Young 
ESPN 
Federated Insurance 
Fifth Third Bank 
Fund for Public Interest Research 
GEl CO 
General Dynamics 
General Electric 
General Mills 
Goldman Sachs 
Grand Prairie Services 
Behavioral Healthcare Grassroots Campaigns Herren Associates' Hewlett-Packard Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos Hillstone Restaurant Group Holy Cross Associates Huron Consulting Group Hyatt Indiana Dunes En~ironmental 
Learning Center 
lnfosys Technologies 
Integra Realty Resources 
Interlochen Center for the Arts 
Internal Revenue Service 
Johnson & Johnson 
JPMorgan Securities 
Kiewit Western 
KONE 
KPMG 
L-3 Communications 
Lands' End 
Liberty Mutual Insurance 
Little Brothers-Friends of the Elderly 
Lockheed Martin 
Lutron Electronics 
Madison Center for Children 
Marine Corps Officer Program 
McGiadrey &Pullen 
Mercy Home for Boys and Girls 

every college • every major • internships • full-time 
L-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Microsoft Corporation Midway Amusement Games Morgan Stanley Morningstar Motorola Navigant Consulting Nestle USA NExTT Solutions Northrop ISrumman Northwestern Mutual Financial 
Network-The Holter Group Nova Group of Japan Oaklawn Office Depot OMD Our Lady of Guadalupe Middle School Park National Bank Peace Corps Pinnacle Entertainment* PPG Industries Press Ganey PricewaterhouseCoopers Procter & Gamble Progressive Insurance Prudential Capital Group Public Defender Service for the District 
of Columbia Raytheon RBC Precision Products Reebok International Retail Expert Rolls-Royce Smith Barney Smithsonian Institution Speedway Super America* St. Paul Travelers Starcom Media Services State Farm Insurance State PIRGs Steak n Shake Stryker Instruments Talbots Target Teach for America The Menta Group 
uBs• 

United States Steel Corporation University Directories University of Notre Dame, 
Human Resources US Air Force US Army Health Care US Department of Justice, 
Anti-Trust Division US Navy Recruiting District · Vanguard Verizon Wireless Walgreens Wesco Distribution Whirlpool Corporation Wisconsin Badger Camp Work and Travel Ireland 
recent registrants 
Academy Prep Centers AmeriCorps St. Louis Eaton Corporation FlightSafety Academy Food Bank of Northern Indiana GMS Trading* Hampton Roads Youth Center IES JPMorgan Chase Ken Herceg & Associates Madison Police Department Memorial Sloan-Kettering Miller Brewing Company* National City Corporation Protiviti Pulte Homes Rodale Publishing Sentry Insurance Smart and Associates Social Security Administration Sun Life Financial Technology Services Group • US Department of Justice, US Drug 
Enforcement Administration 
"Not attending fair, applyon Go IRISH 

tuesday



january31 

5:30pm 
Rodale Publishing, publishing (DeBartolo, Room 129) Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Chicago, nonprofit social service (DeBartolo, Room 138) 

6:30pm 
Smithsonian Institution, museum and research -A&L majors and College of Science (DeBartolo, Room 140) ESPN, finance, marketing, production (DeBartolo, Room 141) 
Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, healthcare and research (DeBartolo, Room 136) 

7:30pm 
American Eagle Outfitters, fashion retail (Dooley Room, LaFortune) 

8:00pm 
Camp Sweeney, a nonprofit camp for children with diabetes (DeBartolo, Room 131) 

8:30pm 
Microsoft, technology (Montgomery Auditorium, LaFortune) 


wednesday
february1 12:00-2:30pm 




diversity reception 

monogram room, joyce center 
all are welcome to attend 

4pm-8pm career & internship fair 
joyce center north dome 
hockey rink side, enter gate 3 student ID required 


findoutmore! 
For more information about the participating organizations, job descriptions, and contacts, access The Career Center website: 

• 
Go to careercenter.nd.edu/undergrad.php 

• 
Click on Go IRISH 

• 
Enter your NetiD (AFSID) and Password, then click on Log in 

• 
Click on Search Jobs/Internships 

• 
Click on Jobs/Internships for Notre Dame Students 

• 
Scroll down to Keyword Search, type in WCIF or the name of the organization, then click on Search 

• 
For an alphabetical list of: -Organizations, click on "Organization" -Positions, click on "Position Title" 


The Career Center 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
~ 
~ 
0
-
a. 
E 
Abercrombie & Fitch 
Accenture 
Alliance Benefit Group 
Allstate Insurance 
Amate House 
American Eagle Outfitters 
American Electric Power Company, Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant Ameriprise Financial Services Anning Johnson AT&T Augustinian Volunteer Program AXA Advisors Becker Professional Review Bethanna* Better World Books BISYS Private Equity Services* Boston Consulting Group Bowen Center BUNAC USA Camp Sweeney Camp Tecumseh YMCA Caremark Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese 
of Chicago 

Wednesday, February I, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page II 


Unarn1ed Airman shot by deputy after chase 
Associated Press 
CHINO, Calif. -A videotape rnlnasod Tunsday shows a slwr­ifl"s deputy shooting an unarmnd Air Foree policeman who recent­ly returned from Iraq as he appnared to obey an order to get up olr the ground. 
KTLA-TV broadcast a 40-sec­ond clip it .said eame from a Chino resident who videotaped Sunday night's shooting, which followed a I 00 mph ear chase. 
Snnror Airman Elio Carrion, 21, was listnd in good condition at Arrowhnad ltegional Medieal Center in Colton. lie was shot thrnn times in the chest. ribs and leg, his father-in-law, Ernesto Paz, told KTIA-TV. 
State and fednral investigators arn reviewing the case, ollicials said. 
Carrion was a passenger in a Corvette that. eraslwd following a brinf chasn, authorities said. 
Amateur photographer Jose l.uis Valdnz told The Assodatnd Pross that hn made the video aftl~r the car erashed into the wall in front of his home. KTIA aired the vidnotapn early Ttwsday, then distributnd it later in the day. 
The dark, grainy picture shows Carrion lying on the ground next to the car. talking to a silhouet­tml oflienr who is pointing a gun at him. Carrion supports himsnlf on one arm and his face is brightly lit by the oflknr's nash­light. 
Carrion is hoard tolling the 
ollicer he is unarmed and is in the military. At one point, a voiee is heard saying several times: "Get up." 
Carrion says: ''I'm gonna get up." As he rises, at least four shots are fired and Carrion col­lapses, crying out in pain. 
"Shots fired! Shots fired!" someone shouts. 
In a telephone interview con­ducted in Spanish. Valdez said aftor the shooting, Carrion asks the deputy. "Why did you shoot me if you told me to stand up?" That alleged exchange cannot be heard on the video. 
The deputy, whose name was not released, was placed on paid administrative leave, a routine procedure in officer-involved shootings. 
Carrion was not charged with a crime, although the incident romained under investigation, according to sheriff"s spokes­woman Hobin I Iaynal. 
The driver of the Corvette. idontified by authorities as Luis Fernando Escobedo, 21, was arrested for investigation of felony evading. 
Carrion and Eseobndo had left a party at the homo of Carrion's parnnts to drive to a store, said the airman's wife, Mariela. 
An Air Foree spokesman, Lt. Frank I lartnett. said Carrion is a soeurity ollieer at Barksdale Air Force Base in Shreveport, La. Carrion joined the Air Force in January 2003 and recently returned from a six-month tour in Iraq, Hartnett said. 

Courts issue abortion rulings 
Partial birth ban act declared unconstitutional at federal level 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Two federal appeals eourts on opposite sides of the country deelared the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act unconstitutional Tuesday, saying the measure lacks an exception for cases in which a woman's health is at stake. 
The first ruling came from a unanimous three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. Hours later, a three­judge panel of the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Manhattan issued a similar decision in a 2-1 ruling. 
The New York decision affirmed a 2004 ruling by a judge who upheld the right to perform the procedure even as he described. it as "gruesome, brutal, barbaric and uncivi­lized." 
Chief Judge John M. Walker, a relative of former President George Herbert Walker Bush, said the court was "compelled by a precedent to invalidate a statute that bans a morally repugnant practice, not because it poses a significant health risk, but because its application might deny some unproven number of women a marginal health b<~nelit." 
He called on the Supreme Court to require a law's chal­lenger to prove how women will be harmed by the law. 
"Is it too much to hope for a better approach to the law of abortion -one that accommo­dates the reasonable policy 

AP File Photo 
Planned Parenthood workers stand In front of a clinic where pro-life protesters rallied in Washington, D.C. Jan. 21. 
judgments of Congress and the state legislatures without departing from established, gen­erally applicable, tenets of con­stitutional law?" Walker wrote. 
Tuesday's ruling was marked by an unusually sharp dissnnt by Judge Chester .J. Straub, who said he believed Congress' determination that the proce­dure was never medically nec­essary to protect a woman's health was well founded and supported by a lower court rul­ing. 
"Allowing a physician to destroy a child as long as one tm1 remains within the mother would place soeiety on the path towards condoning infanticide," he said. · 
He added: "I lind the current expansion of the right to termi­nate a pregnaney to cover a child in the process of being born morally. ethically and legally unacceptable." 
The Calili1rnia court said the law was vague and so broad that no other remedy wa.<.; possi­ble except to throw it out. 
"We aro reluctant to invali­date an entire statute," Circuit Judge Stephnn Hninhardt wrote. "I lowever, after eonsidering all of thn obstaeles to our devising a narrownr remedy, we con­elude that sueh is our obliga­tion." 
The panel also rejeeted argu­ments made by the Justice Department that there was gen­eral agremnent among doetors that such late-tnrm abortions were never necessary to pre­servo the lwalth of a woman. 

THE is now accepting applications for 



R General Board 
Any full time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross is encouraged to apply. Applicants should submit a resume and an application at least 3 pages long explaining how they would run their department. 

NEWS EDITOR 

Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News 
Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and is 
responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR 

Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports 
Ed1tor manages a staff·of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and 
special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is 
responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: 

Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SCENE EDITOR 

Applicants should have feature writing and editing experience. The Scene Editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas and is responsible for the content of the Scene pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR 

Applicants should have photography experience. The Photo Editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with the News, Sports and Scene department editors in assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR 

Applicants should have reporting, writing and editing skills. The editor man­ages Saint Mary's department heads,· coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees a staff of account executives and is responsible for generating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of Quark Xpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager over­sees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing depart­ments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responSible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR Applicants must be familiar with building and maintaining a Web site. The Web Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial department of The Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each daY.. The Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the s1te. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge of Free Hand or Adobe Illustrator. The Graphics Editor oversees a staff of designers and must work closely with News, Sports and Scene to match top­quality graphics with the content of each day's newspaper. 
All applications must be submitted to Mike Gilloon in the Observer's office, located in the basement of South Dining Hall, by Monday, February 6, 2006 by 5 p.m. Questions about the application process can be directed to Mike at 1-4543. 
THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 12 Wednesday, February 1, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

In defense of dissent
Tin: Indepnuinrl, lJdi/y Nnvsp4fWT &ruing Notre Damt: ~~.,J ~in.t Mary's 
ro. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BuSINESS MANAGER 
Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 
SCENE EDITOR: Ram a Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CONTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.J@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scenc.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.J@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independem, daily newspaper published in print and online by rbe studenrs of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saim Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies or the adrninisttalion ofeither insriturion. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements b,t,ed on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr rhe opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commenraries, lerrers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. !.etters to rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact intormation. 
QUI!stions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
11lc Observer (USPS 59914000) i5 published Monday through Friday except during tXil.lll.and \Ideation periods. A subs:cription to The O~r is $100 for one academic year. $55 for qne scmelller. 
The Observer Upublished ~r: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining. Hall Send ;uidres5 rorrccciom to: 
Num: Dame. IN 465';6-0779 Tht:Oh5<:rver 
Pcriod.kal postotgc paid ar Notre Dame P..O. Box 779 
and addilional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
None Dame, IN 4.6556..()779 
The Observer is a mt:mb.::r uf the Associated Prt:si. AU rcprodua-i"n rights arc reserved. 

There are times when the privilege that I have as a columnist in this paper is brought to the forefront of my attention. Today, as many other valid and lucid voices are contending for the limited space of this venue, while I am granted automatic entry, is one of those times. It is in light of my responsibility to those other voices (whom I wish other columnist<; were more concerned about) that I addrnss my reilec­tions to University President John Jenkins and to the Notre Dame community across the world. 
I firmly believe this discussion must begin with a thorough grounding in history, for if it fails to do so, then it may well fail at its purpose. 
Academic freedom and il'i intellectual and spiritual brother, religious freedom ­although embraced and aceordnd great value for many centuries throughout the world -have only recently made an impact on the core of the Catholic Church, and to this day are not always accorded respect by those in power. Any who are skeptical of this point should read a collec­tion of papal encyclicals, published prior to Vatican II, which outline the "ideal" Catholic state -a state in which religious freedom is nonexistent and adherence to doctrine is a matter of law. 
It may be that all human organizations, no matter how noble, tend to tyranny and stasis unless there is constant vigilance on the part of those who love them. This includes the Church, and this includes the University. 
To its credit, the Church reversed its 

Lance Gallop 
Tidewater Blues 
position on religious freedom during Vatican II, largely under the guidance of a notable academic it had previously cen­sored. I Iowever, today that culture of free­dom is still both young and fragile. 
When Father Theodore Hesburgh was president of the University, the Church still maintained and enforced a deplorable tool called the Index of Banned Books. This list included most of the great works of Western social, politieal and philosophical literature. By Canon Law, no student or faculty member could access tl1ese banned books through the University library with­out a signed excflption from Hesburgh. It is to his great credit that Hesburgh chose to issue tlHlse exceptions carte blanche, in a minor but critical rebuke of a central authority that did not yet understand the core values of his University. 
At length, the Index wa'> mpealed, and it is now mostly forgotten. In such a way are ancient mountains worn down with rain­drops. Yet I believe that the lesson of the Index points to the most crucial point in this discussion. 
Full academic freedom in the Church is a check on the power of the central authori­ty. It was not conceived as such, and its defenders rarely apologize it this way, but this is the practical reality. Church leaders, divinely guided or not, are still men ­many ill-prepared for power-and free discussion in the Church of all issues, no matter what the oflicial attitudes of the day, keeps the leaders honest and mindfill of the concerns of their people and of truths that would otherwise be lost under the weight of their office. 
The truth is that if the Church has a duty to Notre Dame to teach and protect the faith, then even more so Notre Dame ha'i a duty to the Church to challenge and refme that faith. It is a hidden duty that may never be acknowledge by the hierarchy and which will be fimght and criticized again and again, but without which the Church would be lost in the modern world. The umbrella orthe Church has a tendency to narrow, and the hnarts of old truths pass away under the strain of politics. Notre Dame must keep the Church broad, and keep it constantly re-examining itself and rediscovering those truths. 
This is why we embrace dissent at the University, not as something to bn fearnd or rebuked or closeted in a darkened class­room, but as an equal partner in all ways in the beauty and splendor of teaehing, beeause today's dissents sometimes become the seeds to tomorrow's truths and bncause the lens of an oul'iider examining our hearts is also the mirror we usn to examine oursnlves. There can be no bur­den placed upon dissent, no hurdlPs that it must pa'is to bn heard by our community, beeausP we need dissent so very much that we can risk no harm to it. 
lt is part of the price that we all pay as seekers of truth, as we must walk edges and push boundaries, that we arn often misunderstood and hated and feared in our time. We continue to push, not because we hate or fear the Church or the truth, but because we must love and serve them in our way. For we -you and I and this University -ru:e more than trophies that the Church uses to brag about il'i intellec­tual strength. If the Church is the mirror of the face of God then we arfl the servants who keep that mirror bright and shining. 
Lance Gallop is a 2005 graduate ofNotre Dame. Comments should be e-mailed to comments@tidewaterblues. com More ofhis opinions can be found at www.tidewa­terblues. com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
~• lT WtLL TAKE A :SlG-G£R MIRAClE TO UNITE US.,., 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Nicole Zook Kate Gales Megan O'Neil Eric Retter What do you think of the Board Maureen Mullen Jay Fitzpatrick 
of Trustees meeting in Rome? 
Viewpoint Scene Laura Sonn Brian Graphics Doxtader Kelly MacDonald 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY


Submit aLetter
. . . . ., . :.. ·'' ... .• ... . . . ··:· ..~~: .·. .•. ·:· . ·:·. 
"/ think right now we have to 
beware ofmarketed Malcolms and Martins. Real people do real things." 

to tbe Editor at 
Chuck D 11 American musician
www.ndsmcobserver.com 1 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Wednesday, February 1, 2006 page 13 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

'Monologues' or dialogue: another perspective 
I would like to ponder a number of' issues relevant to tho rncent presidential address, "Academic Freedom and Catholic Charactnr." These are the topics of (1) doetrinal pluralism at a Catholic university, (2) the special status of various pnrforming and visual arts (staged plays, film, art shows and the like). Tho president of tho llnivnrsity also discussed (3) the Ed anulnmic frnedorn of students, but I Manier formulate a roasonable alternative to eurrnnt and prospnctivn policy in that Guest aroa. As a university community we Columnist must also give morn attention to (4) criteria for fair procmluros of dispute resolution and adjudication, as well as the accountability required if 1~xeeutivn power is not to be absolute. 
These issues will be split up into two parts. Today I will diseuss doctrinal pluralism and speda] status of various pnrforming and visual arts while continuing on Thursday with acadnmie frnedom of' students and criteria for fair procedurns of dispute resolution and adjudication. 
( 1) Pluralism. Notrn Dame has dearly become a place whnrn a full range of options on the most controversial topics can bn fully and fairly discussed. These topics rangn from athnism or "naturalism" to various creationist altnrnativns to evolution. as well as challenges to ortho­dox vinws of the place of women in the Church, the morality of war or the death penalty, and the morality of abortion, contraception, and homosexuality, to name just a few. At Notre Dame, the tinest scholars of Sacred Scripture can and have contested the views of leading philosoplwrs of rnligion. Neither doctrinal authority nor prnsidential wisdom and prudence has imposed litmus tests of orthodoxy as requirements limiting the range of inquiry or the array of viable conelusions presented for public debate. 
Although this circumstance is not fully understood or even recognized by many friends of Notre Dame, on or ofl" campus, it has been a: mainstay of the status quo here for nearly 40 years. 

The practices of an irreducible plurality of approaches to research, pedagogy and publication which have pre­vailed here for so long they are part of the air we breathe, are fully compatible with an array of student, faculty and administrative initiatives intended to "enhance the religious identity" of Notrn Dame in areas of scholarship as well as broad sections of student life. 
Everyone at Notre Dame should be aware of the essen­tial role played by Catholicism and Catholics at the core -the heart, blood and brain -ofthis University. Executive functions are reserved for priests of the order of the Holy Cross by our statutes. With this status comes the privilege of assigning very high priority to a full range of initiatives which deepen and broaden the influence of Catholicism on campus and in the world at large. This is surely a huge part of what it means for a university to be both Catholic and pluralistic. 
(2) Performing and visual arts. It should surprise no one that performing and visual arts are at the center of the current controversy on campus. Presentation of such work to a wide and public audience is as essential to the role of our departments of English and film, television and theatre as it is to our department of athletics. As we have seen over the last 10 years, the public performances of the University's most prominent athletic team are capable of stirring a perfect-and image-shattering ­storm of controversy. No one expects Notre Dame football to be played on Cartier field for the instruction of small groups of students of the game. 
Shakespeare's audiences included a broad spectrum of the citizens of London. The theatre did not thrive in the United Kingdom during and for a few years after the Puritan Revolution. Plays, films and the visual arts gener-
Uniting under common ground 
As we continue discussion about academic freedom and Notrn DamB's Catholic character, I urge people tore­read University President John Jenkins' speech. It dis­turbs mn that a ti~w pnople have oversimplified his stancn, purporting some breach of free speech. Jenkins dnlihnratPiy spnlled out how vital academic freedom is to our Catholic university. lin assured us that "faculty have t.hn ability to rnsnarch, create, teach and express them­snlvns in accord with their own best judgment, and that students have the oppotiunity to inquirn, express opin­ions, explon~ idnas and engage in discussion ... " lie went on f'urthnr to state that. "the University certainly can host individual spnakors who defimd atheism, or infitntidde, or nuthanasia or a first-strikn nudear attack. It is essen­tial to a univnrsity that there be a variety of views nxprnssnd vigorously, oven those contrary to deep values of Catholirism. We are richer, and the Catholic intellectual tradition is strnngthennd, if' a variety of views are nxpn~ssnd and discussed." This does not sound to me like a rostraint on frno speech, but a reasonable and nuanced und1~rstanding of the intelleetual playing field of' a ( :atholic university. 
llowever, any right or frnedom comes with a responsi­bility. Jenkins reeognizes that each fiteulty member has the right to fme spnech. Along with this right comes the obligation mentioned in the Academic Articles as the "avoidanen of using the University's name to advance one's personal opinion or interests." Studenlc;; also have th~n spom:h . .Jenkins poinl'i out that students "are free to hold their own opinions on issues trcat1~d in the class ... Oul<>ido the dassroom, studcnl<> are free to express their own views. while respecting the rules and procedures of the university." llowcver, freedom of speech docs not nwan complete reihrn over one's own education. 
Jenkins also has rights and responsibilities that come with his presidency. lie has a right to make all final deci­sions acmrding to his most informed judgment. He was not obligated to ind11de us in the discernment, but he gmwrously ollf1rnd us the fi1rum in whieh to do so. Ac;; a prof(~ssnd servant of the Church entrusted with the oper­ation of a Catholie university, he is also responsible for pmsnrving Notre Dame's Catholic integrity. 
Whiln individuals are free to pmscnt their own views on any issue, the University as an entity cannot be associat­ed, implidtly or explicitly, with any event that runs con­trary to the tnachings of the Church. 
Notre Dame is known and loved for her standards as an academic institution that also cultivates morality in Her students. Allowing the lewd "Vagina Monologues" and Queer Film Festival to continue under the shadow of Our Lady would mean forsaking that for which She stands. How much more vulgarity must She suffer before She loses all semblance of a Catholic institution? Pope Paul VI writes in llumanae Vitae as ifin direct response to "The Vagina Monologues," "Everything therefore in the modern means of socialeommunication which arouses men's baser passions and encourages low moral stan­dards, as well as every obscenity in the written word and every form of indecency on the stage and screen, should be condnmned publicly and unanimously by all those who have at heart the advance of civilization and the safe­guarding of the outstanding values of the human spirit." 
I would venture to say that just about everyone on earn­pus wants to end the violence against women. The issue is not whetl1er we should, but by what means we should. Jenkins suggests that "The Vagina Monologues" are an inappropriate means to achieve this goal due to its "graphic descriptions of homosexual, extra-marital het­erosexual and auto-erotic experiences" which run con­trary to Catholic sexual teaching. How does one mini­mize sexual violence by maximizing sexual lasciviousness in a play? 
What surprises me about the developments of the past week is that vocal parties have not united in an effort to find alternate fundraising routes for an end to violence against women, but have instead united to protect an abstract freedom ofspeech based on unfounded tangents. Let's refocus. I offer my time and help to mobilize, along­side peers of all dispositions, a campus-wide fundraising effort for an end to violence against women. There is no reason why we shouldn't work together as a university in this common goal in a way that truly reflects Her Catholic character. 
A blog has been created as a medium for online discus­sion that is readily available for the Notre Dame family at large: www.freedomnd.blogspot.com. Let's keep the con­versation going. 
Arina Grossu senior president ofNotre Dame Right to Life Jan. 30 
ally engage the full range of articulate human passion in a way that monographs of Galileo or Descartes, or evm1 those of Darwin and Frnud, do not. Both artistic and ath­letic presentations at academic institutions may, and often do, both instruct and ollcnd a mueh broader range of spectators than do conferences on academic freedom or abortion and public policy. 
As a result, the politically liberal prineiples of' the American Assoeiation of University Professors' statenwnt on academic freedom and artistic oxprnssion insist that "academic institutions arc obligml to ensurn that rngula­tions and procedures do not impair the freedom of' expression or discourage creativity by subjecting artistic work to tests of' propriety or ideology," and that "since faculty and student artistic presentations to the public are integral to their teaching, learning and scholarship, these presentations merit no less protection." 
At the root of these propositions is the eore insight that "essential as freedom is for the ... judgment of facts, it is even more indispensable to the imagination." 
Thn threat posed by artistic performance, whether on the stage or in tilm, is its unparalleled ability to stimulate empathic or abhorrent passion. 
A basic question we must continue to pose and try to answer is "Does our Catholic identity require doparturn from politically liberal principles, including those articu­lated by the AAUP? Should excGutive privilege on this campus include the authority to withhold, unilaterally, "sponsorship" of artistic presentations to the general public on the grounds that they arc oll'ensive to Catholic moral principles?" 
Ed Manier is a professor in the department ofphiloso­phy. He can be contacted at amanier@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Censorship hurts 
Ac;; part of an open dialogue, I wish to take issue with the recent repositioning and renaming of partieular evnnl<> on campus. Inevitably, these actions bring into question the cost of censorship. The University rolins on the generous donations of its alumni and f(~Jt pressure to appnasn them on certain ic;;suns, specifically past perf(mnanees of "Thn Vagina Monologues" and Queer Film Fnstival. Yet, I eannot help but wonder whether the University is eompromising it<> mission as an educational institution with it<> monetary goals. Although significant contributions may have bmm lost in the past due to the eontinund presence of tlwse events on campus, is that loss justified by ennsorship of academic and eampus culturalnvent<>? 
First, let us address the term censorship. Many havn mistaken the definition of censorship to simply nwan an erasure of material that is doemnd harmful, or in this easn contrary to Catholic values. Censorship, by dnlinition, is also characterized by the act of supervising eon duet and morals and persons of authority examining matnrials fin· objectionable matter. In a university setting, encouraging dialogue and questioning is indeed nssential, but we should meet the unguardnd alteration of material with eoncern~So far, the name of one event and the venue and purpose of another have been changed. The n~ality is that censorship has already occurred, making this dialogue not wholly preemptive, but after the fact. 
In addition, censorship poses a potential thrnat to the quality of proli1ssors from whom we learn. After reading a faeulty member's disconcerted remark at University President Father John Jenkins' "finely discriminated judg­ment of what is acceptable and what is not," it bneame my fear that perhaps Notre Dame would not be able to acquire or retain di<>tingui'ihed faeulty in thn futum, fur­ther jeopardizing the whole of our ndueation. A<> part of the dialogue, then, I would encourage others to think about the "priec" of our education. Arn thesn ehangns and censorship worth, say, one million dollars'? Five million'? Are they worth the possible long-tPrm penalties of driving away renowned faculty'! That is filr us, the student<> of Notre Dame, and future alumni and benefaetors, to decide. 
Samantha Raneri 
senior 
off-c.1mpu.~ 
Jan. 31 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, February 1, 2006 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Inaccurate portrayal sinks 'Annapolis' 
By SARAH VABULAS Scene Wrirer 

. When a person thinks of Annapolis, Md., he or she thinks of a beautiful harbor city that boasts the home of the United States Naval Academy, one of the toughest and most rigorous institutes of higher learning in this country. On any Friday or Saturday night, downtown Annapolis is filled with midshipmen enjoying liberty -free time away from "the yard." 
But in the newly released film "Annapolis," the Hollywood version of the city is not much like reality. The streets are tough and full of blue-collar workers who envy the midship­
Founder's Hall at Girard College, which substitutes for the Academy in the film, offers majesty with its Greek columns, it bears little resemblance to the grand structures occupied by generations of mid­shipmen. 
There are also many discrepancies of reality versus fiction in the daily life of a midshipman. The film is not an accurate portrayal of life at the Naval Academy. The trailer claims 50,000 people apply to the Academy each year -a fact that is grossly over exaggerated. 
Despite grossing $7.68 million dollars on its opening weekend, the movie falls well short of expectations. Starring Midshipman 4th Class Jake Huard {James 
Franco). as he 

men. The ship­endures his "plebe"
Annapolis
building industry year at the Academy, is lively -includ­
Huard dreamt of ing the opportuni­attending the Naval ty to build a new Academy but was Navy destroyer waitlisted, only to beDirectors: Justin Lin 
right outside the accepted the day
Writer: David Collard 
Academy walls. before Induction Day
Starring: James Franco, Tyrese Gibson, 
And it's no won­-when the plebes
Jordana Brewster and Donnie Wahlberg 
der the city looks take the oath of office 
nothing like the real Annapolis -Buena Vista Pictures filmed in Philadelphia after failing to win script approval from the Navy, which denied the privilege of filming at the Academy. The State House -the oldest in the United States -never makes an appearance, nor does the chapel dome, which attracts more than one million visi­tors per year. Not to mention the chief industries in the real Annapolis are politics and tourism, not shipbuilding. And though as midshipmen. 
Huard quickly learns the life of a plebe is one of discipline and hard work. The movie includes scenes of hazing and racism -something which is not tolerated at the real Naval Academy. His command­ing officer, Midshipman Lieutenant Cole {Tyrese Gibson), sets out on a quest to ride Huard and push him to his limit -so much so that Huard contemplates quitting on numerous occasions. 
Huard finds his place through boxing 


Photo courtesy of movieweb.com Lieutenant Cole (Tyrese Gibson), left, faces off against Midshipman Jake Huard (James Franco), right, in Justin Lin's woefully inaccurate new film "Annapolis." 
classes and his roommate, nicknamed "Twins" -a midshipman who struggles with weight problems. Huard learns of the Brigade Boxing Championships -one of the biggest events at the Academy each year. He finds Cole's tests frustrating, but figures that if he does well enough in the Brigades, he can fight Colein the champi­onship-the climax of the movie. 
As a subplot, Huard falls for an upper­classman, Ali (Jordana Brewster), who also happens to be one of his superior offi­cers -something forbidden at the real and Hollywood Academy. Brewster's char­acter never fully develops throughout the movie and leaves the audience wondering how and why she knows enough about boxing to help Huard. 
The film is full of cliches and lacks depth in the overall plot. There are moments when the viewer is drawn into the movie, but it can be largely attributed to the soundtrack, which features strong instru­mentals by Brian Tyler. 
Other than offering a new, and not by any means better, version of the 1982 film "An Officer and a Gentleman" (starring Richard Gere), the film is missing sub­stance. The viewers keep waiting for the characters to develop and the plot to tie together, but this never happens. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vahu4547@saintmarys.edu 

SUNDANCE FILM FESTIVAL RECAP 
Sundance highlights independent films 
By CASSIE BELEK 
Scene Wrirer 

The streets of Park City, Utah are slightly less crowded now that the Sundance Film Festival is over. Celebrities have headed home to Hollywood with Oscar on their minds and left behind a slew of award win­ners and box office potential. 
For the first time in its 22 years, jurors and audiences gave the same two films top honors for the documentary and dramatic 
competitions. "Quinceaiiera" Robert Redford gling through the war {dramatic) and "God Grew and occupation.
founded the 
Tired of Us" {documentary) Longley, who wasn't
Sundance Institute 
made history, but not big allowed to begin princi­money like "Little Miss in I98I to support pal photography until Sunshine," which drew in the collapse of Saddam
the development of 
$10 million from Fox Hussein, shot over 300
independent
Searchlight. hours of film over the When the Sundance Film artists and movies. course of two years. "A granduncle and gay cousin. "God Grew Tired of Us," directed by Christoper Quinn, follows three Sudanese refugees as they travel to Pittsburg and Syracuse and adjust to their new lives in America. The film prompted a Texas woman to donate $25,000 for one of the men to build a medical clinic in his town in Sudan. 
Directing awards went to James Longley for "Iraq in Fragments" and Dito Montiel for "A Guide to Recognizing Your Saints." "Iraq in Fragments," tells the stories of Iraqis strug­
Festival first began, paying a sum so large for a film was unprecedented. Robert Redford founded the Sundance Institute in 1981 to support the development of inde­pendent artists and movies. The festi­val soon followed to showcase the achievements of these artists and films and to promote creativity and risk tak­ing. Since 1981, independent films have gained popularity and commer­cial success, with bidding wars reach­ing higher and higher plateaus. 
While purists complain that the festi­val itself has become too commercial with its multiple sponsors and crazed celebrity fans, the focus remains on the films themselves. "Quinceafi.era" is about 14-year-old Magdelena {Emily Rios). who becomes pregnant and is kicked out of her house. She then makes a new family with her great-
Guide to Recognizing 

Your Saints" features a host of stars, including Robert Downey, Jr., Rosario Dawson, Shia LeBeouf, Chazz Palminteri and Eric Roberts. The film, based on Montiel's youth, is about a boy who believes he has been saved by various "saints" while his friends meet unfortunate ends. 
Films premiering at Sundance includ­ed "Little Miss Sunshine," a movie star­ring Steve Carell and Greg Kinnear, which follows a family in a cross-coun­try road trip as they try to get their daughter in the finals of a beauty pag­eant, and "Wordplay," a documentary about crossword puzzle lovers. The New York Times puzzle editor Will Shortz. paid $1 million for "Wordplay," hoping it would become the "Mad Hot Ballroom" of 2006. 
Sundance is never without its myster-ies and scandals, like when Harvey Weinstein made a public scene when he lost the rights to "Shine" in 1996. This year, it was "Thank you for Smoking" that had festival-goers scratching their heads. A 12-second sex scene featuring Katie Holmes was mysteriously missing from the screen­ing. While some speculated that the culprit was a protective Tom Cruise, the real reason was due to a splicing error in Los Angeles. 


Most of the films showcased at Sundance will not be released until 
later in the year, but potential Oscar nominees are already among them. Last year's award winners included "Hustle & Flow," "The Squid and the Whale" and "Junebug." All three films have garnered Oscar nominations in acting or screenplay categories for the ceremony in March. It proves that independent film~ are gaining recogni­tion and box office results, and the Sundance Film Festival is just one step in making that possible for these films. 
Contact Cassie Belek at belek@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, February 1, 2006 
page 15 
SCENE FEATURE 
Finding Hollywood's most elusive director 
By BRIAN DOXTADER A«isram Scene Editor 
Thoro aro those filmmakers who follow the ()uontin Tarantino track -little formal odtu:alion, minimal film school education and a filmmaking approeiation developed from drwphilia. On Uw opposite oxtrmnn of tlw spodrum is Terrence Malick -a guy who got his philosophy degreo from llarvard. hneamn a Hhodes Scholar, taught philosophy at MIT, wrote for Lifil, The New Yorkm· and Newsweek and then graduated from the American Film Institute's Center lilr Advanced Studios. 
Mali1:k's filmography is equally impres­sive, though oflnn puzzling. In a earner that spans fin1r decades, the writer/director has made only four films (loss than one film every ton years): "Badlands" (1973), "Days of llmtvon" (197Hl. 'The Thin Hod Line" (IIJIJH) and "The Now World" (2005). In partieular, Malick's first two films were such a potent one-two punch that it seemnd impossible that his subsequent pic­turns would farn as well. 
llo is also one of Hollywood's groat enig­mas, a dirnetor who rarely discusses his work and who disappoared from the public nyo at tho ap11x of his success. lie retrnated to Franco after JIJ7H's "Days of Heaven" and did not make a film for two decades. 
Malick is one of the few directors who can mnsidnr hirnsnlf an artist with a capital "A." lie writes and directs his own films, and his pnrsonality is stamped into every franw. In his review of "The Thin Hed Linn," critic Hoger Ebert points out that, "tho enntral intellignnce in tho lilrn doesn't belong to any of the characters, or even to their voice-over philosophies. It belongs to Mallek." Sueh is true of all his pictures, in which the narration seems more suited to the director's philosophieal wonderings than the characters who speak it. 
Budgetnd at less than half a million dol­lars, "Badlands" was an auspicious inaugu­ml picturn for Malick, ran king as one of the best writer/director debuts. Based loosely on the real-life Starkweather-Fugate mur­ders, it follows Kit (Martin Sheen) and Holly (Sissy Spacek), two young lovers on the run after Kit kills I lolly's father. A critical hit, "Badlands" established Malick's distinct style: voice-over narration, minimal plot­ting, sparse dialogue, breathtaking land­scapes and a self-conscious artiness. Some still consider "Badlands" to be Malick's finest film, though its reputation has been overshadowed by 1978's "Days of Heaven." 
Like its predecessor, "Days of Heaven" employs an elliptical narrative and voice­over narration, but it outstrips "Badlands" in cinematographic beauty and artsy poeti­cism. Less a movie than a visual elegy to a by-gone era, the film follows Bill (Hichard Gere), a factory worker who escapes to the farm fields of Texas after accidentally killing his boss. With his girlfriend Abby (Brooke Adams) and his sister linda (Linda Manz) in tow, he begins working on a plan­tation. When he discovers that the farmer who owns the fields (Sam Shepard) is ter­minally ill, Bill convinces Abby to marry him for the inheritance. 
If nothing else, "Days of Heaven" is mas­terpiece for the way in which it was filmed -mostly shot during "magic hour" in nat­ural lighting, the picture is absolutely gor-geous, easily one of the most beautiful films ever made. Though it forsook narrative convention and easy interpretation, its sta­tus as an artistically challenging illm has never been questioned. 

For many, "The Thin Hed Line" came dangerously close to dismantling the direc­tor's legacy. The near-perfection of his first two films and the ensuing long layover built expectations to unrealistic levels. Still, the film is remarkably unfocused, sprawl­ing over 170 minutes with little regard for plot cohesion. An ethereal meditation on the meaning of war, "The Thin Red Line" is interesting and challenging, but still some­thing of a letdown for casual fans. 
... 
The argument could be made that Malick's films are cold, indireet and detached. Nature seems more important to the director than charaders, whieh might be off-putting for some. His lilms are by no means popcorn entertainment, and their philosophical yearnings are more suited to art houses than cinemaplexes. Still, for those who haven never seen a Terrence Malick film, the maverick director's few pictures are well worth the time and nlli>rt. Few pictures are as meticulous and visually stunning as the liJUr films in his oeuvre. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
Malick's latest a new world, familiar style 
By BRIAN DOXTADER A,sistanr Scene Editor 
Onen upon a time, Terrence Malick made "Badlands" (1973) and "Days of Heaven" (197H), setting an impossibly high bar for tho his subsnqunnt works. 
Perhaps rnalizing that following his pair of dnbut lihns would be a diflicult task, the mavnriek dimdor took a 20-year sabbati­cal, which he finally broke with 199H's "The Thin Hed Line," a sometimes brilliant, more ol'len frustrating, treatise on the meaning of war. lie returns seven years later, with "The New World," a lilm that continues his penehant for excess but also reminds viewers 
say that plot has been completely jetti­soned, as there is a clear story being told, even if its pacing is fitfully uneven. 
The film is a reconstruction of the decon­structed Pocahontas legend, providing a slick new gloss of mythos to the classic story. Obviously not as saccharinely senti­mental as other translations (Disney's 1995 film version being foremost), "The New World" still brings a gracefully storied edge to the proceedings, mostly thanks to the vision of its director. 
The story follows a group of English colonists who found Jamestown in the 17th century. Led by Captain Christopher Newport (Christopher Plummer), John Smith (Colin Farrell) is a mutinous prisoner 
at the film's start, 

that he has gen­as they settle on
The New World
uine einernatic the coast modern vision, an increas­Virginia. In an
;iJ·.) \iJ)· \ )_ ~ '"iJ-) ' ·).l
ingly rare thing in ' ' '-~· ~~ ~ # attempt to redeem Ilollywood. J J J_r..J J ,!}'J himself. Smith tries Onee upon a to make contact
Director: Terrence Malick 
time, too, Malick with the Native 
Writer: Terrence Malick 
had an editor. The Americans, which 
Starring: Colin Farrell, Q'orianko Kilcher,
biggest criticism nearly leads to his 
Christopher Plummer and Christian Bale 
that can be leveled death, save for the 
against "The New World" is that, at 135 minutes, it is too long. The film is a 20-minute story stretehnd out over two hours. Malick's ftrst two films each ran 95 minutes, an appro­priate length for his artsy mixture of ellipti­cal narrative and naturalistic tableaux. "The Thin Red Une," by comparison, ran 170 minutes, and "The New World" follows that n.tm's extreme lead. 
"The New World" has the surest narra­tive footing of any Malick film since 1973' "Badlands," but that really isn't saying much. The director has little concern or need for the typical rhythmic pulse of a llollywood film, focusing instead on shots of naturn and the quasi-philosophical yearn­ings of the protagonists -which isn't to 
efforts. of Pocahontas (14 year-old Q'orianka Kilcher), the daughter of Chief Powhatan (August Schellenberg). Smith and Pocahontas fall in love, but Smith eventually leaves, and Pocahontas instead marries farmer John Rolfe (Christian Bale), who brings her back to England. 
Malick has always been a visionary who finds a detached beauty in strange things, whether it be the mundane lives of poor farmers, the inanity of young lovers on the run or the brutality of war. Here, he fmds a sweeping grace not only in the photogenic landscape of America, but also in a won­derfully recreated London. 
All of Malick's films are in some way about the contention of man against 

Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 

Colin Farrell stars as John Smith In Terrence Mallek's "The New World," a rein­terpretation of the Pocahontas myth. It Is the maverick director's fourth film. 
Line" -by a restoration of the childlike wonder that permeated "Days of Heaven." In fact, though "The New World" may be closer to "Hed Une" in style, it is closer to" Heaven" in tone. Like that 1978 master­piece, it combines breathtaking visuals and an un-cloying naivete that often transcends criticism. Still, the illm is overlong and suf­fers through passages that wear even the most tested of cinematic patience thin. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
nature, and "The New World" is no excep­tion. Neither the colonists nor the Native Americans are presented as wholly good or wholly bad, which complicates the direc­tor's moral stance. Smith and Rolfe are good men, and Captain Newport and Chief Powhatan are competent leaders. 
It's easy to get the impression that Malick has made the exact film he wanted to make, but that doesn't necessarily bode well for the viewer. Self-indulgent to a fault, "The New World" is saved from collapsing under its own weight -like "The Thin Red 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 16 
Wednesday, February 1, 2006 
MOVIE REVIEWS 

Unrecognized 1958 classic finally gets its due 
'Squid' brings new twists to old story 
Photo courtesy of movieweb.com A complex story of divorce and its effects on a family, Noah Baumbach's "The Squid and the Whale" was one of the most impressive new films of 2005. 
By LIZ BYRUM Assistant Scene Editor 

Tales of divorce and its effects on a family have been told and retold in Hollywood. However, in "The Squid and the Whale," writer-director Noah Baumbach uses a model of his own childhood to put a new spin on an old story. 
Baumbach, who has worked on films including "Kicking and Screaming" and "Mr. Jealousy," sets the film in Brooklyn's Park Slope, where he lived for a large part of the '80s. At that time, his own parents, film critic Georgia Brown and novelist Jonathan Baumbach, went through a messy divorce. 
Using his history as a starting point, Baumbach creates a story about the marriage and divorce of writer and Professor Bernard (Jeff Daniels) and 
aspiring writer The Squid and the Whale Joan begins to 
Joan (Laura 
see Frank's ten­Linney). nis instructor 
The film opens (played by at a time when Michael Baldwin) Bernard's career and Bernard
Director: Noah Baumbach 
as a writer is fal­moves in with
Writer: Noah Baumbach 
tering and he one of his stu­
Starring: Jeff Daniels, Laura Linney, 
seems to care dents (played by
Owen Klein and Jesse Eisenberg 
more about him­self and his writ­ing than he does about his wife or fam­ily. Even larger issues erupt when he finds out that Joan has had an excerpt from her new novel published in The New Yorker. 
Daniels shines in this picture and becomes the character for which audi­ence members might feel sorry, or by which they might just be disgusted. Linney's character, on the other hand, breaks past the fact that she has been having affairs through the last four years of her marriage and appears to have a calm and innocence about her that her sons finally begin to recognize toward the end of the film. 
Despite the talent of these actors and the complexity behind their roles, the focus of "The Squid and the Whale" revolves around the characters' two children, Walt (Jesse Eisenberg) and his younger brother Frank (Owen Kline, son of actor Kevin Kline). 
The film is a portrait of the effects parents have on their children, and the way children begin to realize how they can take the information their parents feed them -through conversations ranging from Dickens to desire -and decide for themselves what parts will benefit them in the future. 
Each of the boys has issues regarding their parents' sexuality and the tension 
caused by the 
divorce. When 
Anna Paquin), the 

accusations fly. What had started as a joint custody plan (one that even included the family cat in the weekly schedule) eventually turns into a battle of parent against parent, and the boys are forced to choose sides. 
Eisenberg does an outstanding job of carrying his character through the con­fusion of his mother's sexual betrayals of his father, his first inklings of By GRACE MYERS 
Scene Critic 

Best described as a classic psychologi­cal thriller, "Cairo Station" examines the lives of the poverty-stricken workers in Cairo's main railroad station in 1958. Although underappreciated upon its release, also in 1958, "Cairo Station" has proven to be the beautiful preeminent classic of the Egyptian screen, receiving much international attention and esteem. 
This film brilliantly and concisely encompasses all of Egyptian society in the world of this railway station. The entire nation is pulled together through the dis­carded timetables and black-and-white newspaper print littering the station's floor, while time is told only through the station's central clock. "Cairo Station" highlights Egypt's 
-

invisible citizens pictures of female 
Cairo Station

the soda vendors, models scattered luggage carriers 
throughout the and newspaper newsstand and salesmen. These the station. All the poverty-stricken while, the headDirector: Youssef Chahine .
men and women newspaper sales­
Writer: Mohamed AbuYoussef
sleep in abandoned man and Kinawi's
Starring: Farid Chawki, Hind Rostom,
railcars and peddle father-figure in
Youssef Chahine and Hassan el Baroudi 
to the crowds of daytime travelers, fighting to survive. They struggle to main­tain a sense of community and guard their personal security while living in a world that constantly shifts around them. 
Kinawi, played by the film's director Youssef Chahine, is a crippled newspaper salesman, given the job when found 
this confusing 

environment updates him daily on current events throughout the city, including the bizarre serial killings of women at another train station in Egypt where the victims are stabbed to death, packed into luggage and boarded onto trains. 
Kinawi, growing increasingly desperate sleeping in one of the station's tunnels. While working there, he observes thou­sands of beautiful women every day, wit­nessing the frequent and passionate scenes of lovers' separations on the sta­tion's platforms. He q'Uickly falls in love with the beautiful and vivacious Hanuma, a soda vendor, determined to make a life for herself and be respected by all those around her. She is indifferent to Kinawi's advances, as she is already engaged to the handsome and ambitious luggage car­rier, Abu Sir'. 
Kinawi is the most marginalized char­acter of the movie, forced to deal with his poverty and his physical handicap, but he proves to be physiologically inept at deal­ing with his disadvantages. He becomes more and more obsessed with women, fearing for his future and the possibility of a life without a wife. He begins frantically 
collecting cut-out 

courtesy rmlnarcr11v.ar Youssef Chahine's 1958 film "Cairo Station," which stars Chahine as a newspa­per salesman, was screened last week in the Browning Cinema at the DPAC. 
after Hanuma immediately rejects his marriage proposal and inspired by the current serial killings, plots to kill her and place her body in the trunk she will use for her wedding. Hanuma's best friend mistakenly walks into Kinawi's trap and is stabbed. Although shocked by his actions, he continues the pursuit of Hanuma. In a passionate and violent fmal scene, Hanuma is saved by Abu Sir' and the head newspaper salesman and Kinawi is taken to an asylum. 
The film's greatest strength is the stark contrast between the impermanency of Kinawi's world with his universal feelings of sexual desire, repression, passion and madness. Chahine embraces the black­and-white world, using light, shadows and sunlight to unite faces and the bleak scenery, while grease and diesel steam mark out the film's backgrounds, remind­ing viewers of film noir. The film's close following of Kinawi's psychological devel­opments pays great attention to his facial reactions and eyes, is highly powerful and disturbing. His eventual downfall and destruction of those around him are painfully clear. "Cairo Station" is a won­derful achievement of the director and a masterpiece of classic film. 
Contact Grace Myers at gmyersl@nd.edu 

romantic love and the realization that although his father may be an intellec­tual, not all the advice he gives Walt is worth taking. Although the objects of distraction may vary, Baumbach's story of Walt's discoveries and realizations still take on a relatable feel. 
One of the comical parts of the film occurs when Walt attempts to have an intelligent conversation about Franz Kafka with his new girlfriend (Halley Peiffer). Trying to emulate his father's knowledge of literature, he describes Kafka's "The Metamorphosis" as being "Kafkaesque," to which the teenage girl replies, "It's written by Franz Kafka. It has to be." 
Although it's hard to put a finger on exactly what makes this movie a good one, it's worth trying to figure out. 
A successful cast, interesting setting and a complex storyline are just a few of the possibilities of what makes "The Squid and the Whale" a winner. 
Contact Liz Byrum at ebyrum@nd.edu 
------------, 
Wednesday, February I, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT page 17 
Don't forget about MOVIES in the BROWNING CINEMA 
Caii631-FILM for a recorded list of this week's showings! CHECK OUT THE ARAB FILM SERIES IN THE BROWNING CINEMA THROUGH FEB. 3. 
SIMON SHAHBBN 
AND QANTARA 

Sat. Feb. 4 at 8 pm Leighton Concert Hall Student Tickets: $1 5 
"[Simon Shaheen] is increasingly regarded as one of the most dynamic musical links between the Arab world and the West:' 
-ARAMCO World Magazine 
page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, February 1, 2006 
NFL 
Coaches present contrast in style, philosophy 
Holmgren, Cowher ready to lead teams to Super Bowl win 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -It's an 8-year-old snapshot of Bill Cowher that endures: the Pittsburgh coach brandishing a fist at Jacksonville's Chris Hudson as he races past the Steelers bench en route to a game-clinching touch­down. 
"Intense" is the word it con­jures -a word most often used to describe Cowher. It might have been more: as he clenched that fist, Cowher looked like he might jump on the field and tackle Hudson. 
It's easy to depict Seattle coach Mike Hohngren as just the oppo­site: a laid-back Californian who has been fashioning precision offenses for more than two decades. 
Not really. Holmgren just shows his intensity a little farther from the cameras. 
"He says to me, 'I don't want you to turn over the ball," Seahawks quarterback Matt Hasselbeck said. "Then I'll throw an interception -it happens, doesn't it? -and come off the field and he'll say, 'I don't want you to turn over the ball."' 
Going into Sunday's Super 


CLASSIFIEDS 
Bowl, Cowher and Holmgren share a lot beyond their all­female households: Cowher has three daughters and Holmgren has four, plus four granddaugh­ters ("that's what we talk about, our girls," Cowher said). 
They are the longest-tenured coaches in the NFL -14th sea­sons without a break. The 48­year-old Cowher was hired in by the Steelers in 1992, the same year Holmgren signed on in Green Bay. 
After winning a Super Bowl with the Packers after the 1996 season and losing one the next year, Holmgren moved on to Seattle as coach and general manager. 
Both are considered among the NFL's best coaches, perhaps a bit below the superstar/celebrity level that includes Bill Belichick, Bill Parcells and Joe Gibbs. Some of it is personality -neither craves the spotlight -and some of it is they've experienced fail­ure. 
Until this year, for example, Cowher had lost the only Super a franchise that had been consis­Aaron Brooks and Hasselbeck. haul," Steelers owner Dan Bowl he'd been in (to Dallas after tently mediocre. And a free agent named Kurt Rooney said Tuesday. "And that's the 1995 season) and also was 1-But their styles and systems Warner passed through their what he's been. His roots have 4 in AFC title games, all at home. are markedly different. training camp and became a helped him. He's not one of those 
The 57 -year-old Holmgren was Holmgren is a former third" two-time league MVP with the people who come to Pittsburgh asked to step down as Seattle's string quarterback at Southern Rams. and look around and think he's GM after the 2002 season after California who aspired to coach Cowher comes from another in some provincial town. He the team went 9-7, 6-10, 9-7 and and teach in high school, and tradition -passing is second to knows Pittsburgh, he under­7-9 in his first four seasons, not played in a rock-and-roll band. running. That's one reason Ben stands the people, and he thinks what was expected from some­His success as a high-school Roethlisberger has been able to of it as home. It's great to have 
h.

one who arrived as the savior of coach in the Bay Area led to a flourish at quarterback in his llll. " job at San Francisco State and first two seasons -he doesn't His players think so, too. then as quarterbacks coach at have to carry the offense. "Everyone thinks he's tough. Brigham Young in 1982, where As Holmgren is a direct disci­He is, but he's a players' coach," one of his pupils was a young QB ple of Walsh, Cowher's mentor is wide receiver Hines Ward said. named Steve Young. Marty Schottenheimer. "His door is always open if you 
Holmgren did enough there "I wouldn't be here if it wasn't have a problem, or just want to that he was hired by Bill Walsh for him," Cowher said. "He saw talk. Yes, he gets angry, but most to coach the 49ers quarterbacks, something in me I'm not sure I of the time, he's right." moved up to offensive coordina­saw in myself." "You always know when he's tor, then moved on to Green Bay What Schottenheimer saw was really angry. He says, 'I'm mad as head coach. intensity. as hell and I'm not gonna take it 
"His success is right out of the Raised in the Pittsburgh area, anymore,"' Ward said. Bill Walsh tool kit,"' Young said. Cowher played at North Carolina Win or lose, the next time "It's everything. How you prac­State, then made the Cleveland Cowher and Holmgren get tice, How you diagram plays. Browns in 1980 when together, they're likely to talk How you travel. It's right down Schottenheimer was an assistant about their all-female families. there A-to-Z. Mike got it, passed there. l-Ie was used mostly on Cowher drove the length of the it on to Steve Mariucci, Andy special teams and played briefly Pennsylvania Turnpike several Reid, Jon Gruden, all the way for Philadelphia. times last winter to watch down the line." In 1985, at 28, he was hired as daughter Megan play basketball 
Holmgren's staff with the Cleveland's special teams coach for Princeton and came back the Packers was one of the best ever by Schottenheimer, who had same night (Cowher's wife, Kaye, -Mariucci, Reid, Gruden, Marty become the Browns' head coach. played in the old Women's Mornhinweg and Ray Rhodes, He followed Schottenheimer to Professional Basketball League). the former coach of the Eagles Kansas City, becoming defensive 1-Iohngren's wife, Kathy, who is and Packers and now the coordinator on a staff that also a nurse, and daughter Calla, a Seahawks' defensive coordinator. included Tony Dungy. His atten­doctor, won't be in town for the 
He's also developed quarter­tion to detail was clear and even Super Bowl. backs. when he was barely over 30, he They'll be in Congo to do med­
While Holmgren was in Green was introduced to people as a ical work. Bay, he turned Brett Favre into a potential head coach. "They didn't know we'd get to star. During that time, the He got the job soon enough -the Super Bowl when the trip Packers also drafted QBs who back in his hometown. came up," Holmgren said. "What were traded elsewhere and "I could see in him a guy who they're doing is more important became starters: Mark Brunell, would have success over the long anyway." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
FoR SALE all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

Stop overpaying for rent. Visit  COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINIUMS  For rent: Two story house complete- SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS-HIR­ 
WANTED  BlueGoldrentals.com  AVAILABLE FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BEDROOM,TWO  ly remodeled 2003. Ready for immediate occupancy or next  TICKETS  lNG NOW-Secure your summer job now! Residential camp, located in  
New 3-4 Bedroom Homes, 3 full  BATHS. HURRY. 235-7234 FOR  school year. Off street parking  south central, Indiana. Operated by  
Unix Server specialist needed to  Baths, 2+ Car Garage, Fireplace,  MORE DETAIL.  includes motion sensor light for  Bahamas  the Catholic Youth Organization  
attach webcam to a server and then  Cathedral Ceilings, 1Ox20 Deck,  security.  Spring  since 1946. Serving campers aged  
link to a website for a local daycare.  Close to Campus. $1700 monthly.  908 SB Ave: Roomy 6-7 bdrm home  Four individually locked bedrooms,  Break  7 to 16 in various programs.  
233-1605.  Available Aug. 06/07, Call 574-232­ 4 blocks to ND. 2 baths, wid, broad- central station monitored security  Cruise!  Inclusive of persons with disabili­ 
4527,  band internet incl. Avail.  system, six blocks from Notre  5 Days from $299! I  ties. Great staff coummunity.  
FoR RENT  269-683-5038.  06-07 & 07-08 school year. 327 Hill St: NEED A HOME  Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student hous­ ncludes Meals, MTV Celebrity Parties!  General Counselor, Specialty, Adventure and Health positions  
Blue & Gold Homes is offering a  TODAY? NEED A SECOND  ing, Laundromat next door, base- Cancun, Acapulco,  available. Training provided starting  
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED- free pool table to all new tenants. 1­ CHANCE? Very nice 3 bdrm home.  ment available for storage of bicy- Jamaica from $499!  May 2006. For application and infor- 
ROOM HOMES  7 bdrms, 24-hr maintenance & open  Close to ND & Corbys. Broadband  cles,luggage,trunks, etc., new fur- Campus  mation contact: CYO Camp Rancho  
MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408  leases. Visit BlueGoldrentals.com  internet  nace and central air, new kitchen  Reps  Framasa (toll-free):(888)988-2839,  
or call  option. W/D & alarm system avail.  including new stove  Needed!  x25 or  
3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web  57 4-250-7653.  Move in today. Call  and refrigerator, large living room  PromoCode:  e-mail  
site:mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary  Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 or  for TV or entertaining, free trash  31  angi @campranchoframasa.org  
574-993-2208 or grooms@ourweb­ 1706 Logan, 6 bdrms, $200/person,  email  removal.  www.springbreaktravel.com  
spot. net  B&G Homes. 574-250-7653.  JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com  Call 289-4071 .  1-800-678-6386.  Go Belles. the bronze isn't far away.  

Wednesday, February 1, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Bryant scores 40, averages over 40 for month 
Kidd leads Nets' win, snapping Pistons' 11­game winning streak 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Kobn Bryant is hack in Wilt Chambnrlain's com­pany again. 
Bryant seorPd 40 points, dnspitn making only onn f'inld goal in thn sneond half'. to eap oil' his snnsational month and lead tlw Los Angdns Laknrs ovnr tho f'rustratnd Nnw York Knieks 130­97 Tunsday night. 
Bryant spar:knd a pair of' narly runs. tlwn spnnt thn rnst of thn night lnading a parade of' Laknrs to thn foul linn. lin was 7 -of'-17 from thn linld and 2:{-of'-26 at tlw lirw. 
Tlw NBA's loading seornr av(~r­agml 4:{.4 points in I:{ gamns this month, highlightnd by his HI­point outing that was thn second­host seoring ganw in NBA histo­ry. lin joirwd Chamhnrlain as thn only playnrs in NBA history to avnragn 40 or morn points in a month morn than once, accord­ing to tlw Elias Sports Bureau. 
( :hamlwrlain. whosn I (JO-point ganw is tlw only onn bnttnr than Bryant's earnnr-bnst outing, did it live timns. Bryant also averaged 40.(, points in Fnbruary 2003. 
l•:lgin Baylor is thn only other playnr to avnragn 40 in a month. 
Srnush l'arknr addnd IS points and Chris Mihm had 14 for the (.akers, who were 43-of-SS from 
the linn. Thn Knicks were 20-of­
24. 

Qyntnl Woods scored 15 points and Quentin Hichardson had 14 for the Knicks, who were called for live technical fouls -two on coach Larry Brown -and a fla­grant. Nnw York has lost three straight and nine of 10, but at least showed some fight after ·displaying little in a 120-101 loss 
at Atlanta on Monday night. 
Davis provided the Knicks with an early spark in his first game sincn serving his live-game sus­pension for elimbing into the stands during a game, scoring sewm early points as the Knicks opmwd an l X-9 lead. Bryant then s(:ored 14 points in a 22-4 spurt that gave the Lakers a 31­22 lead in the final minute of the quartnr. 
Bryant sat out the early part of' the sncond quartnr, then helped thn Laknrs blow open llw game midway through the period. lie scornd the final seven points in a 12-0 run that extended a seven­point lead to a 49-30 advantage with 4:17 left in tho hall'. 
I lis layup a little more than a minutn Ialor madn it 51-34, but hn wouldn't make another field goal until a :{-pointer with 10? minutes remaining in the game. lie scored R2 points in two games against the Knicks this season. 
By tlwn, the Knicks were fed up with watching Bryant and the rest of the Lakers parade to the foul line. Davis was called for a 11agrant foul when he grabbed Bryant by the neck with 7:09 left in the third quarter, and New York's Channing Fryo and Mihm were called for double technieals with 5:46 remaining in the peri­od. 
Brown was ejected during a timeout following that play. Heli~ree Steve Javie called a first technical on Brown, then a soe­ond and an automatic ejection after Brown continund to argue. 
Brown then walked onto the lloor right up to Javie to continue the argument before being pulled away. llerb Williams, who coached the Knieks at tho ond of' the last soason, finishod up the game. 
Nets 91, Pistons 84 
Jason Kidd had 23 points and 12 rebounds to lead the New Jersey Nets past Detroit Tuesday night. snapping the Pistons' NBA-bnst 11-game winning stroak. 
Hichard Jofferson and Nnnad Krstic oaeh scored 19 for New Jersey (23-20), which snappod a four-game losing streak. Tlw Nets won their eighth straight game at Continental Airlines Arona. 
Chauncey Billups led Detroit (37 -6) with 30 points, including 6-for-6 from 3-point range. The Pistons, who entered the gamo shooting 46 percent from the lield this season, were 30-of-R2 (37 percent). Leading scorer Hiehard Hamilton scored 19 points, three below his average, but shot R-lilr-24 from the !ield. 
New Jersey led 85-81 with 
2:00 left after Kidd found Vince Carter for an acrobatic allny-oop dunk. Billups answered with a 3­pointer from th(~ top of the key to pull Detroit within a point, and Krstic fumbled a pass out of bounds at the other ond li1r Now Jersey. 

But Tayshaun Prince commit­ted an offensive lim! on Detroit's next possession, and Kidd mado a 3-pointer with 48 soeonds left to give the Nets an 88-84lead. 
On Dntroit's next possession, Carter stripped llamilton on a drive to the basknt, and Kidd madn two froe throws with 36 snconds left. 
Dntroit trailod by as many as 10 points midway through the third quartor as Kidd sank a :~­pointer and two jumpors sand­wiehed around a jumper by Jason Collins, his only points of the night. 
D·•·)~a.~:~,:e-. 
No.. I'~:.tr-e· ... · • ·..... ".,.·.~~·.c·>· ..I•.:-11.: . .. ,:"-1'
-. , .. . 


Investtnent C'lu 


First Meeting: Wednesday' February 1st Debartolo Room 141 7·30 8· ·3·.. o PM..·
•. -:. ·, .... ' : . <' 
FRE.E SUBtW*Y!! 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, February 1, 2006 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Touted recruit Mustain to sign with Arkansas 
QB's signing ends months ofstress after earlier decommitment 
Associated Press 

LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -The hoopla has died down a bit. The state can breathe easy. Mitch Mustain decided to stay home for school. 
Mustain, one of the nation's top high school quarterbacks, plans to attend Arkansas. Now, of course, comes the August, then said in early December he was considering other schools. 
Finally, two weeks ago, Mustain announced he would play for Houston Nutt at Arkansas, choosing the Razorbacks over Notre Dame, Tennessee and Alabama. 
Mustain's decision could hardly have come at a better time for Nutt. Arkansas went 4­7 in 2005, missing the postsea­son for the second straight year after going to a bowl each of 
Nutt's first six 
seasons. 

Nutt didn't men­
hard part for the "They're going to tion Mustain by Razorbacks' name -NCAA
expect a lot out of
would-be savior , rules prevent -handling the me. coaches from talk­pressure from ing about a specif­thousands of suc­ic recruit before
Mitch Mustain 
cess-starved fans. he signs a letter of
Arkansas recruit
"They're going to expect a lot out of me," Mustain said this week. "At the same time, they've got to realize, it's a new game for me too." 
Mustain is expected to sign with Arkansas on Wednesday, the first day -and by far the busiest -of the national sign­ing period. 
When Mustain makes it offi­cial, it will formally end a recruiting saga that has capti­vated the region for months. Mustain played high school football at Springdale, about 20 minutes from Arkansas' cam­pus in Fayetteville. He initially committed to the Razorbacks in intent. But there's 
no denying the 
Arkansas coach is excited about his class. 
"To have the No. 1 player come out of your own state, you really need him," Nutt said. "You really need him to go to your school -and so that was huge." 
Mustain is actually ranked No. 3 among overall recruits by College Sports Television recruiting expert Tom Lemming and No. 10 by Rivals.com. But that's of little consequence to Arkansas fans, many of whom have seen first hand what Mustain can do. 
Springdale had one of the 
most dominant seasons in state history in 2005, going 14-0 and outscoring its opponents 664­118. 
Mustain, who was already earning national attention before the season began, lived up to the hype. He completed a state-record 70.4 percent of his passes in 2005, throwing for 3,817 yards and 47 touch­downs. Mustain won the Gatorade national player of the year award and Parade Magazine player of the year. 
Less than a week after Springdale won the state title, reports surfaced that Mustain might be reconsidering his commitment -and the pres­sure on Nutt and the Razorbacks increased again. 
Rick Schaeffer was Arkansas' sports information director for more than two decades and now is a color analyst on bas­ketball broadcasts. He also co­hosts a sports talk radio show. 
Schaeffer defended Nutt's performance in recent years, but he understands fans have been growing impatient. 
"Houston's a good recruiter, but the question comes up: 'Well if he can't sign the quar­terback from 15 minutes from his school, who can he sign?'" said Schaeffer, who has also announced Springdale games. 
Mustain's recruitment was even more important because Arkansas averaged only 143.7 yards passing per game last season, never finding a clear cut No. 1 quarterback to go with dynamic freshman run­ning back Darren McFadden. 

Around the time Mustain reopened his recruitment, Nutt was making staff changes. For the first time, he hired an offensive coordinator. The choice: Gus Malzahn, Mustain's coach at Springdale. 
Malzahn had made no secret of his desire to move to the col­lege level -and Arkansas seemed a natural fit well before Mustain reconsidered his com­mitment. Malzahn's hiring did­n't immediately secure Mustain. 
In mid-January, Mustain finally recommitted to Arkansas. 



Congregation ofHoly Cross 
CORBY NIGHT "A great band ofmen had passed this way, men who had made and lived by their vows, men ~vho had ~valked side by side in theirfollowing ofthe Lord. .. "  IfGod is calling you • • • Join us. Think you nzight have a vocation to serve as a priest or brother? Join the Holy Cross conununity at Notre Dan1e for an hour ofprayer, pizza, and in:forJnal discussion. TONIGHT! at Corby Hall, 8:30pm vocation. nd. edu  

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------~ 
AROUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, February I, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 21 
Women's College Basketball AP Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  Tennessee  17-0  1,138  
2  Duke  16-0  1,108  
3  LSU  14-0  1,064  
4  North Carolina  16-0  1,014  
5  Connecticut  15-2  918  
6  Maryland  14-2  915  
7  Ohio State  13-2  851  
8  Baylor  12-2  792  
9  Rutgers  12-2  790  
10  DePaul  16-1  742  
11  Purdue  13-2  723  
12  Michigan State  13-5  561  
13  Georgia  12-4  551  
14  Stanford  11-4  543  
15  Arizona Slate  14-3  527  
16  Minnesota  11-4  495  
17  Oklahoma  13-4  461  
18  Virginia Tech  14-1  322  
19  Vanderbilt  13-4  251  
20  New Mexico  13-4  244  
21  Temple  12-4  165  
22  Boston College  12-5  154  
23  BYU  13-1  108  
24  NOTRE DAME  10-5  97  
25  George Washington  11-4  78  

Women's College Basketball Big East Conference 
tNtm coni'. overall pet.. 
. 16-2 Rutgers 4-0 12-2 .857 Louisville 4-1 13·3 .812 St. John's 4·2 14-3 .824 DePaul 3-2 16-2 .889 Marquelle 3-2 12-4 .750 Seton Hall 3-2 6-10 .375 West VIrginia ·3-2 10-5 .667 Plllsburgh 3-3 12-5 .706 NOTRE DAME 2-3 11-5 .688 VIllanova 2-3 11-5 .688 USF 2-3 12-6 .667 Georgetown 1-4 8-8 .500 Providence 1-4 6-10 .375 Cincinnati 1-4 11·5 .688 Syracuse 0·6 7-10 .412 
Connecticut 5-0 .889 
Men's College Basketball Big East Conference 
tNtm eonf. ovorall pet. 
Connecticut 5-0 16-2 .889 Rutgers 4-0 12-2 .857 Louisville 4-1 13-3 .812 St. John's 4-2 .824
14-3 DePaul 3-2 16·2 .889 Marquelle 3-2 12-4 .750 Seton Hall 3-2 .375
6-10 

West Virginia 3-2 10·5 .667 Pittsburgh 3-3 12·5 .706 NOTRE DAME 2-3 11·5 .688 Villanova 2-3 11·5 .688 USF 2-3 12·6 .667 Georgetown 1-4 8-8 .500 Providence 1-4 6·10 .375 Cincinnati 1-4 11·5 .688 Syracuse 0-6 7-10 .412 
around the dial 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL NOTRE DAME at West Virginia 7 p.m., ESPN Iowa at Purdue 7 p.m., ESPN2 Duke at Boston College 9 p.m., ESPN Texas at Missouri 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 


Associated Press 

OKLAHOMA CITY ­The Hornets will play most of their home games in Oklahoma City next season with New Orleans still recovering from Hurricane Katrina. 
The NBA announced Tuesday that the llornets will play 35 games in Oklahoma City and six in New Orleans in 200(>-07. 
NBA commissioner David Stern said in a statement the league remains committed to returning to New Orleans, but "for.now, our collec­tive interests are best served by having the tP.am play the bulk of its 2006­07 schedule in Oklahoma City. 
"However, we are hope­ful that the team will be in a position to return to New Orleans full time beginning in the 2007-08 season." 
The agreement reached between the state of Louisiana and the Hornets allows the team to amend its lease agreement with the New Orleans Arena. 
"The agreemP.nt reached today will ensure the llornets stability while thP. New Orleans market fully recovers and, at the 
same time, maintains our presence in the NBA," Louisiana Gov. Kath teen Blanco said. 
Stern also said the NBA will enter exelusive nego­tiations to bring the 2008 All-Star Game to New Orleans. 
"From everything we have seen and heard, we have little doubt that New Orleans will soon regain its place among the world's premiere dties for hosting major sporting events," Stern said. 
The NBA has also agreed to hold its annual marketing moetjngs in New Orleans in October, 
IN BRIEF 

Pimlico quarantine will not 
effect Preakness 
BAJ:riMOHE -The home of the l'rnakness is enrily quiet this week, the result of a quarantine that has raisP.d questions whether troubled Pimlieo Hace Course can regroup in time to host the middle jnwP.I of the Triple Crown. 
An outbreak of equine herpesvirus at the 136-year-o~d track forced three horses to be nuthanized and led sP.veral states to ban the ship­ment of horses into or from Maryland. Although a horse was linknd to tlw virus Tuesday at near­by Laurel Park, there have been no new cases at Pimlico since Jan. liJ and thn track intends to lif't the snlf­imposed quarantine next Wednesday. 
But can Pimlico ultimately replace the cautionary ynllow tape currently surrounding several barns with the bright yellow Black-nyed Susans that symbolize the Preakness? 
"I have no concern about that 
whatsoever," Lou Haffetto, ehief operating ofl'icer of the Maryland .Jockey Club, said Tuesday. "Given the nature of this virus, I don't think this will bP. an issue by the time we start the spring meet in A!:!ril." 
US Snowboarders hope to 
repeat at Olympics 
ASPI\N, Colo. -Shaun Whitp,'s eyes dartnd around thn room bel'orn fixing on the gold medal hanging around his neck. 
"This is awesome. I can't beli<lVP. it," he said. "I can't wait to get to Torino." 
Neither can the rest of the U.S. Olympic snowboard team. 
The Americans swept the podium at the last Winter Olympics and, based on their performance at this year's Winter X Games, there's a good chance they'll do it again when the Turin Garnes bngin in less than two WP.eks. 
White leads the way. 
The liJ-year-old from Carlsbad, Calif., took the frustration of buck-
with some 300-400 people expected to attend. 
"The permannnt identity of New Orlnans as an NBA city is important to tho P.C<IIlomy of our entire region," Blanco said. "New Orleans has always been a great eity for big events, and we are confi­dent that we can quickly negotiate a deal to bring the All-Star Game to Nnw Orleans." 
In liJ ganws at Oklahoma City's Ford Center this season, thn Hornets have averagnd 11\,546 fans, including I 0 sellouts. The surprising young tnam is 22-22. 
ling under the prnssun~ at last year's Winter X Games and usnd it as nwti­vation, spending thn ol'fsnason work­i'!g on some nnw moves. Woods defeats Garcia at 
Buick Invitational 
SAN Dl EGO -SPrgio Garcia squeeznd his nyns shut and gouged a 6-iron out of the tn~n. tlwn sprintnd down the 16th fairway at Mndinah in youthful pursuit of Tiger Woods. 
That was thn summnr of'')') at t.hn PGA Championship. 
More than six years later, Garda is still running af'ter thn world's No. player and hasn't madn up mtu~h ground. The latest opportunity camn Sunday at Torrey Pinns, when~ lw played with Woods in thn final group for the first time since thn 2002 U.S. Open at BethpagP. Black. 
lie hookP.d his opening ten shot and made bogey. lin blasted out owr the lip of a fairway bunker and over the green at No. 2, making anotlwr bogey and snnding Garcia to a 40 on the front nine. 
Wednesday, February 1, 2006
Carter 
continued from page 28 

Villanova in the unfortunate position of either having to foul him or simply watch the junior work down the stretch. 
"That's always bnen a big part of my game, going to the bas­ket," Carter said following the game. 
The Irish average nearly 24 3­point attempts per outing. But when Carter is on, opponents almost have to tear up the scout­ing report to deal with the new _scoring option. 
"I want him to keep doing what he's doing, because he gives us that slashing guy to the basket that's different than the other perimeter guys we have," Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said Monday. 
The problem has been Carter's consistency, or the lack of it. 
Though he's averaging 9.2 points and 4.4 n~bounds pnr game as the Irish head into Morgantown, W. Va. tonight, Carter has battled to earn his coach os' trust. 
On Saturday, during a second­half stretch in which the Irish had momentum, the junior guard caught the first pass of the possession from point guard Chris Quinn and fired a deep 3­pointor that rimmed out. 
The Irish walked to the bench as a timeout was called, and Brey could be se<m telling Carter, "Not so early," suggesting the shot selection was unwise. 
"We certainly want him to drive, but he doesn't have to drive on the first pass," Brey said. "Uon 't force plays. Just let plays come to you." 
Carter did, for the most part, against Villanova. He finished with 14 points, grabbed six rebounds and -perhaps most importantly-made 8-of-11 free throws. It was the most free throws attempted by a Notre Dame guard in a single game this season, second only to Torin Francis (12 attempts against Providence, Jan. 14) on the entire team. 
"He went through a tough week ]during] the Providence/Marquette week," Brey said, referring to Carter's five total minutes in the 1-1 stretch. "I thought he was proba­bly forcing some plays and maybe not focusing on the things that he does well for us. [The key is I staying to his strengths and away from his weaknesses." 
Carter also understands that oppommts sometimes dictate the lineup Notre Dame shows. Against an athletic, guard-heavy team like Villanova, for example, Carter would most likely see increased playing time. The jun­ior started. however-and Brey also left him in the game ­because he had shown 11ash!~s of offnnsive foren in tho previous 85-82, double-overtime loss to Villanova. 
"In certain games, you may need certain players," Carter said. "Everyone on the team understands that." 
But if he continues to get to the free throw line and remains patient on offense, Carter may also force the issue on the per­manent makeup of Notre Dame's starting lineup. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


GEOFF MATTESON/The Observer 
Russell Carter passes to a teammate in an 85-82 double over­time loss to Georgetown on Jan. 24. 
Offering 
affordable 
flying lessons 
from S.:.Uth Oend Regional Airport 


KIRSTEN HOELMER/The Observer 
Russell Carter, left, plays defense against Villanova guard Randy Foye in the team's 72-70 loss to the Wildcats on Jan. 28. 
February 2 You Don't Really Have to be a Rhodes Scholar to Land a Fellowship for Post Graduate Study: Introduction of the Fellowship Office 
Hammes Student Lounge, 
Coleman Morse. 
Contact information: 
Office of Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 
UNIVERSITY OI' NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE 01' AnTS ANU LETTI\nS 
Once a year the men of Keenan gather to sing, dance, and make fun of everything you hold dear. 
The battle rages February 9·1 I 
Ticket Distributions: 
Notre Dame Students: Feb 3, 4-6pm;JACC Gate I 0 Saint Mary's Students: Feb 3, l-3pm; O'Laughlin concession stand 
You may bring up to 2Student IDs; 2Tickets per ID presented 
Wednesday, February 1, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
Belles 
continued from page 28 
f'irst-year head eoach Steve Bender, who has the team on pae11 for its best MIAA finish ever. 
Despite their recent sue­cnss, the Bellns know they will have to play hard to overcome Olivet on its horne court and want nothing more than to get even after thei~· last loss. 
"Everyone is .del'initely ready from our loss last tim11," sophomore forward B11anya Broderick said. "Ev11ryone is hun­gry to win, hun­
gry to do well. "Everyone is Calvin. Wn'v11 been work­definitely ready "We realize ing hard, Iandi that [the sea­
from our loss last 
wn'r11 d11finitely son I is winding rnnntally pr11-time. Everyone is d o w n , " pared." hungry to win, Broderick said. Senior forward "We're ready to
hungry to do well. " 
Sh111ly B1~nder finish it out, but 11 e h o e d we've invested B r o d 11 r i ~~ k ' s Beanya Broderick so much in it. thoughts, saying Belles forward Our coaches 
how her team needed to play hard right from the start to get the win this time. 
"We're looking to attack, be really aggressive on both ends of the court and play like we know how to play," she said. "We've go to be in attack mode, ready to go." 
The Belles also know that, regardless of the outcome of tonight's game, they've still got a lot of work ahead if they hope to l'inish strong in the MIAA. 
Saint Mary's will finish up the regular season with four more conference games, including a contest at first­place Hope and a home matchup with second-place 
her team ean't be thinking about their loss to Olivnt whnn they play them tonight. 
"We just came out flat," Bend11r said of hnr team's loss to the Comets. "That game was ovnr br11ak, we all had different schedules. Bning in a routinn, riding the bus together, it's a totally different mentality. 
"We're just going to play hard like we would against any other t11am. We've got to he aggressive -don't back down." 
Broderick also stressed 
told us in May, 

'It's not how we start, its how we end. We have to !'in ish hard.' The coaches have been great at keeping everyone working hard, keeping everyone upbeat." 
"We want to play as well as we ean play, winning is always on our mind," Shelly Bender said. "But as long as we play 100 percent, play to our full potential, that's all we can ask for." 
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Kessler wins MIAA honor 
Guard is first Belle to be named Player of the Week in 05-06 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Allison Kessler's hard work for the Belles has paid off as the sophomore shooting guard was named the MIAA Player of the Week Monday. 
"I was happy and excited when I found out I had won t h i s • " Kessler said. "But I'm !more glad I that someone from our school finally won it." 
Kessler played a crucial role in Saint Mary's victories last week over Alma (57-55) and Tri-State (58-57}. She took control or both games, playing 77 minutes out or a possible 80 and shooting 11­for-24 for 32 points. 
Kessler showed the ability to make clutch shots toward the end or games last week. With less than a minute to go in the home win over Alma, Kessler nailed an off-balance 

shot to give the Belles a three-point lead, and cement the 57-55 win. Likewise, against Tri-State Kessler scored the Belles' final six points, denying a 13-point second-half comeback by the Thunder. 
Despite receiving the con­ference award this week, Kessler believes hnr and the Belles' best el'l'ort eame against Kalamazoo on Jan. 14. 
"The Kalamazoo game was where we really came together as a team," Kessler said. 
The Belles' 83-73 victory, spurred by Kessler's 
has also given us much bet­ter looks on offense." 
In the past four games, the Belles' defense has allowed only 53.8 points per game, an improvement from early this season when the Belles gave up 65 points or more six times in their first 11 games. 
The results on the defen­sive end coincide with head coach Steve Bender's theme for this season -mental toughness. And Knssler has taken the motto to heart. 
Over the past five games, she has averaged 17.2 points and 36 minutes. Kessler has also spearhead­ed the Belles' 
career-high 22 "The Kalamazoo defense, espn­points, sparked eially with a
game was where 
a stretch in erueial steal in 
we really came
which Saint the closing sec­Mary's has won together as a onds of last four of its last Saturday's win
team." 
five games, los­ovnr Tri-Statn. ing only to Kessler also 
Allison Kessler
Adrian on the showed her abil­road by one Belles guard ity to adapt this 
point Jan. 21. 

Down playing her efforts, Kessler attrib­uted her team's success this season to its increased defensive mentality. 
"We've been getting a lot more pressure when we've been on defense, forcing bad plays and the other teams I to take] bad shots," Kessler said. "Getting more pressure 
past wnek whnn 
starting point guard Bridget Lipke was injurnd in the Albion game and Kessler took over. She maintained this role for the nnxt two games in Lipkn's place, leading the Belles to the win over Alma. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 


is currently accepting applications for the 2006-2007 term for the following positions: 
MANAGING EDITOR ASST. MANAGING EDITOR 
Applicants for Managing Editor and Assistant Managing Editor should demonstrate strong journalistic and management skills. An in-depth understanding of newspaper production, including skills in Microsoft Word, Quark XPress and Photoshop, is required. Experience with Macintosh computers is helpful. 
Applications for any of the above positions should be at least five pages and should explain the applicant's qualifications and goals. 
Managing Editor and Assistant Managing Editor applications are due by Friday, February 3 at 5 p.m. Submit all applications to Mike Gilloon in the Observer office located in the South Dining Hall basement. 
Please direct questions about these positions or the application procedure to Mike Gilloon and Claire Heininger at 631-4542. 
page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, February 1, 2006 
a tough opponent. The 
Mountaineers have not lost in
Hoops 
continued from page 28 

turn their season around in a similar way when they make another trip to West Virginia today. 
"This is a team that really got going last year after we played them in Morgantown," 
conference play, and their 6­0 record is best in the league. Their wins have come against South Florida, Villanova, Georgetown, Marquette, Providence and St. John's. 
Five players on West Virginia have attempted more than 65 3-pointers this sea­
son. Three ­
K e v i n 
Irish coach Pittsnogle, Mike
"'t's never too late in 
Mike Brey said. Gansey and "They got real­college basketball . ... Patrick Beilein 
ly confident, It's always too early have 
really hot. attempted more
to say you're in great 
They've got than 100. The more 22-and Mountaineers
position and a lock. I 
23-year old think for our guys we made 20 3­and married pointers in the
have to hang out hat 
guys than us. victory over 
They're very on that and keep Marquette experienced." playing." something that 
Brey said concerns Brey. 
Monday that "Like us, they
Mike Brey
We~t Virginia's are going to turnaround last Irish coach make tough season shows 3s," Brey said. anything is "They can real­possible when it comes to the ly shoot it. They have a Big East -something Notre bunch of different guys who Dame hopes is true consider­can really get going." ing its 1-6 league record this Brey said it is important for season. the Irish to contest West 
"Its never too late in col­Virginia's 3-point shooting lege basketball," Brey said. whether the team is in a "It isn't l'ootball, that's where man-to-man or zone defense. basketball is great. The Irish coach also said he 
"And it's always too early wants Notre Dame to ke.ep to say you're in great posi­focused on the offensive end. tion and a lock. I think for "I want us to keep being our guys we have to hang our· aggressive," Brey said. hat on that and keep play­"Sometimes the flow ol' the ing." game, the way we've played, 
But if Notre Dame is going it is a little bit of a shoot out. to reverse its fortunes, it is You're getting stuff on us, as going to have to do it against long as we're getting stul'f on 
GMAT I GRE I LSAT I MCAT I DAT I OAT I PCAT' 
Take a FREE practice test at this event and you'll receive a detailed score analysis and exclusive strategies to help you prepare for Test Day! 
February 11th, 2006 MCA T, LSA T, DA T, GRE, & GMA Tpractice tests at Notre Dame Register Today! 
ENROLL Limited seats are available. Caii1-800-KAP-TEST TODAY or visit kaptest.comjpractice. 
•Test names are registered trademarks of their respective owners. 6PGA0003 
you. up some and scoring that tip off at 7 p.m. 
"I think we have to attack way." and go for it. We've done that Brey said Pittsnogle is dan­Notes: in everyone of our league gerous because he is a confi­+ Notre Dame travels to games, and that's why even dent upperclassman. But it West Virginia with a good the ones weve lost we had a was Gansey -the 6-foot-4 amount of confidence, even chance to win them." guard who is shooting 61-though the Irish. have strug­
West Virginia is led by the percent from the field and gled so far this season in the tough guard-forward combi­50-percent from 3-point Big East. Notre Dame has nation of Pittsnogle and range -for whom the Irish won the last 11 contests the Gansey. Pittsnogle is a talent­coach had even more praise. two teams have played, dat­ed big man who has shown Gansey's field goal percent­ing back to Feb. 14, 1999. an ability to step out and age is the best in the Big East "We've always been suc­shoot 3s throughout his among players with 200 or cessful with West Virginia," career with West Virginia. He more field goal attempts. His Irish forward Torin Francis is averaging 19.8 points per 3-point percentage is best in said. "With our movement on game on 50 percent shooting. the league by 26 percentage defense we're pretty good at 
"He's a big guy who can points. defending shooters out on the step out and shoot it," Irish "I think right now a kid like perimeter." guard Chris Quinn said. "He's Gansey is a player of the year extremely skilled and this candidate," Brey said. Contact Bobby Griffin at year he's even been posting The Irish and Mountaineers rgriffi3@nd.edu 
HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH 
International Film Festival 
January 31-February 2, 2006 Saint Mary's College, Vander Vennet Theatre Free and open to the public 
· Tues., Jan. 31  Wed., Feb. 1  Thur., Feb. 2  
7 p.m.  7p.m.  7p.m.  
Mardi Gras:  State of Fear  The Education of  
Made in China  Pamela Yates, Paco de  Shelby Knox  
David Redmon, USA,  Onis, and Peter Kinoy,  Marion Lipschutz and  
2004, 72 min.  USA/Peru, 2005, 94 min.  Rose Rosenblatt, USA,  
In English, Cantonese,  In English and Spanish  2005, 76 min.  
Fujianese and Mandarin  with English subtitles.  In English.  
with English subtitles.  
(EI'ITER FOR WOMEN'S II'ITER(ULTURAL i.EAD£RSHfP  Saint Ma~s College NOTRE DAME • INDIANA  @ The Joan B. Kroc Institute FOR INTERNATIONAl PEACE STUDIES  

Spor1sored by The Cemer for Women's InterCultural Leadership, the English Department, the Women's Studies Program and the InterCultural Studies Program at Saint Mary's College, and by the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame 

Wednesday, February l, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
Bowl. They hope to hand ofT in the
Recruits
Wednesday, February 1 THEOLOGY ON TAP Presents Harold Ernst, Instructor, Notre Dame Theology Dept. Where was God During••• Hurricane Katrina? •~Faith er1ng~ 'fH£ot.0GvoN 'fi\p Get tap'p~d tlf'&t-:i?~gendsMore to Doors Open-at--t.=30pm, Come on Speaker starts-10100pm C-M 2/22 Free soft-drinks and food, cash bar Campus Ministry  

Thougltt you couldu't study abroad? lJou't kuow u>lzat to do tlris sun1111er? -!""''~'"''""'"""" Study Abroad this Su111111er through ND! Quito, Ecuador Paris, France Dublin, Ireland Milan, Italy Puebla, Mexico Toledo, Spain Kampala, Uganda Come to an information session to learn more. __ Wednesday, February 1, 2006 5:00pm 229 Hayes Healy Apply now -deadline is March I, 2006!  
Write Sports. Call 1-4~43.  

future to a group of' running continued from page 28 
backs led by Aldridge, who 
Scout.com lists as the No. 7 mitmentl Morrice Richardson ball carrier in the country. a little bit ago and we were Luke Schmidt and Munir 
• ..
just talking Prince round about our out the posi­class. We "We want to win a tion. 
were talking The highest
national championship. 
about how rated dnf'm1sive
Make that plural -we
excited we position is eor­are to win a want to win national nnrback, national wlwrn thn Irish
championships. " 
championship nxpeet signa­together." tures from 
Eric Olsen 
The largest Baeshon and one of' the Irish recruit McNeil and most highly­Darrin Walls. touted groups T h e in this year's Irish recruiting Pittsburgh-native Walls is a erop is the offensive line, as member of the Pennsylvania Weis and his staff are expected Big 33 team while McNeil is to sign six lineman today. ranked No. 74 on the Young, the No. 2 rated lineman Rivals.corn list of' the top 100 in the nation by Scout.com, players in the nation. headlines the Notre Dame unit. However, also expects to
"We were just talking
the other five receive com­
line recruits about our class. We mitments from 
-Olsen, Matt were talking about how three of' Carufel, Dan Scout.com's
excited we are to win a
Wenger, Chris top 30 safeties Stewart and national championship No. 10 Bartley Webb together. " Sergio Brown, -have all No. 20 Leonard garnered four Gordon and
Konrad Reuland 
stars from the No. 29 Jashaad Web site. Gaines.
Irish recruit 
Several Wide receiv­other positions er is the only are full of highly recruited spot besides linebacker where players. Notre Dame is not expected to 
The two quarterbacks sign at least one player ranked expected to fax their commit­in the top 40 of his position by ments to Notre Dame today, Scout.eom. Demetrius Jones and Zach Frazer, both competed in last Contact Mike Gilloon at month's Army All Ameriean mgilloon@nd.edu 


University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
COU ..ITTIIf£ ON 
GAY AHO l.e:.SIIAN 
6TUOE.HT NI'£M 

The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact. Sr, ML Gude, CSC, 1-5550, orstudenl members (see web site for student contact info) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) 
Contact: Fr. Dick Warner, C.SC., atl-9704 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty .3@nd.edu 
For more infonnation, check out our web site: http://www.nd.cdu/-scglsn/ 
Join Us  - 91}-~ dJ~3·~_  d  
For Our  Texas Hold'em  
First  POKER TOURNAMENT  

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2006 
Doors Open at 2pm Limited Re-Buys Available Game Begins at 4pm TM F d & 
{South .Bend Tlma) /!II_ , oo Beverages $100.00 entry fee Includes $25 registration 
"?i-"14e Pta-c.e 
PRIZE POOL 1s 1o% oF THE FIELD TOTALLING 
$22,500

I () 000
• 

Register early at: www.fop36-com 
1st Place Prize and Prizo Pool ba~ed on 300 parttclpants 


~ 
! 
t -­
! 
f 
~ 
f 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 


J.VH)ICINE 
We are still acce_pting any freshman students interestED. in the stu ­dent athletic training 
prog-ram. Please con­tact Chantal Porter at 631-7100. 
TAKE A STUDY BREAK $2 off Lunch/ Brunch or $10 off Dinner for Two 
Lunch Available M-F Dinner Available any Night exp. 2/13/06 
Located on Historic West Washington Street 620 West Washington, South Bend, IN 46601 574-234-9077 www.tippe.com 

• 


our 1 eas 
... we have. GE's LEXAN SLX body panels infuse plastic with pigment, reducing volatile organic compound emissions normally associated with conventional automotive paint. We call this ecomagination. At GE we invite you to hatch your ecomagination through a career in engineering, finance, manufacturing, sales and marketing, human resources, or information technology. 
Come meet GE reps and learn more about full-time and internship opportunities at GE! 
Winter Career & Internship Fair February 1, 2006 Joyce Center -North Dome 4-8 PM 
On-campus interviews will be Feb 21st. 
ecomaginationsM 
to learn more visit us at gecareers.com 
an equal opportunity employer 

• imagination at work 

Proud to be a Golden Key Sponsor 


Wednesday, February 1, 2006 
Orange 
continued from page 

the past week, Notre Dame rebounded behind the strong play of a veteran and a rookie. 
Senior forward Courtney LaVere started for the Irish and scored 14 points on 7-of-10 shooting. 
Freshman guard Lindsay Schrader was even more prolif­ic, hitting 9-of-19 from the floor and 6-of-10 from the free throw line for 24 points. 
"She was really aggressive offensively," McGraw said of Schrader. "I thought she did a really good job just looking for her shot and being able to score." 
Schrader added eight rebounds and two steals in the winning effort. 
The Irish outscored the Orange 19-7 in the game's tina! 
9:30 to make an otherwise close contest look like a blowout. Schrader scored eight of Notre Dame's final 19 points during the run, and she helped Notre Dame control the ball with a bevy of offensive and defensive rebounds during that time. 
·The teams battled on the perimeter and in the paint all game, and Syracuse outre­bounded Notre Dame, 40-35. 
"I was a little disappointed in our rebounding," McGraw said. "[Junior forward) Crystal [Erwin]_ had eight rebounds but she could have had a little more. Overall that whole back line could have played better on the rebounding end." 
Notre Dame was successful enough, however, to pull away at the end. 
Associate head coach Coquese Washington said the Irish defense, especially in the sec­ond half, was the key to the vic­tory. 
"We tried to mix up our defenses" to neutralize Syracuse guard Jenny Eckhart, Washington said in a radio interview. "We were able to keep her oil' balance." 
Lavere was a large part of that strong defensive perform­ance. On the heels of a six-point performance against South Florida Saturday, she had !'our rebounds to go along with her 14 points, and she added three blocks in 27 minutes of action. 
In a radio interview after the game, LaVere called the game one of her best of the season. 
''I'd do anything to make the team win," she said. "Right now, I just want to end the Big East [season) on a high note." 
McGraw said it was crucial for LaVere to play well to prove to other teams that the Irish can score, even when standout point guard Megan Duffy is held in check. 
"It's really important [for other players to score I because every team is focusing on Megan," McGraw said. "Courtney finally stepped up to give us more confidence that we don't need Megan to score to win." 
Both teams had trouble from the floor early in the game, and neither Syracuse nor Notre Dame was able to capitalize on the other's mistakes. Each squad led by four at one point in the first half, but neither could extend the lead any fur­ther than that. 
In all, there were eight ties in the first 20 minutes, and only two free throws by Tracy llarbut with nine seconds left in the period gave Syracuse a 27­25 lead at tho half. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

<4 
l 
Wednesday, February I, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 I 
l 
l
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Comment made 
Corday's victim while fanning oneself
6 Billiard shot 37 Cyclades island
11 Convenience 38 Classic Dickens
store sign title (from14 Classic game whose 1 0 letters 
company this puzzle was 15 Like World Cup constructed)crowds 
41 _polloi

16 Charles X, e.g. 
42 ltsy bits 17 59-Across and 
43 Must 

others 
44 Casual walk 19 Dispenser of 
46 Show47-Across 47 See 19-Across 20 Irritate 48 Commandment 

21 Where to spend word 
kips 
51 __ Poly22 Mid fourth­
54 Wreck 

century year 56 Sail supporter24 Results of ties: 57 Colombian cityAbbr. 
58 Coach

25 __-Hawley ParseghianTariff Act of 1930 59 Ebenezer 26 Cheer 
Scrooge player27 Shelley's "_ 
in a 1951 movie Skylark" 
version of 28 Old Chevy 38-Across 11 Professional grp. 62 chi ch'uan 
~NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
or Web 
25 Working poor, e.g., in 38-Across 
27 Rocky hill 
~_;,.;..j_;,;...f-:;;.t-:-t-=-tll!!!lt!!.,;; nickname 
~-:=+.±:+7+.:-+7-:-1 29 Cheer (for) -=+=+=+:--:-~ 30 Kon-Tiki Museum site 

..:.:.L.::..Lc.:..L..::..J 31 Cries of deliqht 
THE OBSERVER 
63 Conductor Georg 64 Portuguese colony until 1999 65 Entirely 66 Kind of energy 67 Pile up 
DOWN 1 Introduction to economics? 2 On (carousing) 3 "Gmundhog 
Day" director 4 Seed covering 5 Start of a 
winning combination 6 Major export of Ivory Coast 7 Movie droid, familiarly 8 Perch 9 Stick in the water 
10 Tiny Tim's mother in 38-Across 
11 Places for theorizers? 12 Shed item 13 Rodolfo's love in "La Boheme" 18 mater 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon

J]~~[! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
RACHI 

j
rJ r 

~~-~~~--~ 
RUFLYR j
(] ( 
www.jumble.com 

Now -arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

I J I J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 

A rI I I JrI I Jrn 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: AGLOW GLADE AMAZON DONKEYYesterday's I 
Answer: What he ended up with when he ate all the doughnuts -A "GLAZED" LOOK 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS I>AY: Justin Timberlake, 25; Minnie Drive 36; Portia de Rossi, 33; Nolan Ryan, 59 
Happy Birthday: lfyou arc practical in the way you approach things this yea you will find an angle that works. Keep in mind that you don't get anything fi nothing. Hard work, ingenuity and putting yourself on the line will work as lor as you don't overindulge in any way this year. Your numbers arc I0, 14, 27, 3 41,45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can reach your goals ifyou arc careful 
how you present things. You will have stamina and will know what will interc 
the people you are dealing with. You can make financial gains ifyou arc smm 
*** 

TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Change can be good and, in this case, you hm 
to trust in your own judgment. The decisions you make to put the past behir 
you are right-on. Partnerships on all different levels can be gratilying. **~ 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): The good will outweigh the bad ifyou don't I 
your emotions get in the way. A chance to do soml!thing that can turn into a nc 
position or advancement must not be looked at lightly. Don't let a scheme th 
is not viable ruin your practical plans. ** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): It may be hard to part with things but ifyou real 
aren't using them anymore, give to those in need. You will be praised fi.1r ym 
kindness. Someone from your past will show interest. **** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take a close look at partnerships or any agreement 
be careful to read the line print. Someone is likely to be dishonest with yo' 
Don't get angry --outmaneuver whoever is trying to take advantage. *" 
vmGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Personal and professional relationships appear I 
be changing so adjust your position in both cases. Someone you work with w· 
cause problems for you. Don't overreact --remain calm and you will stay 1 
control.*** 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Do something that will perk you up or make yc 
feel more confident about yourself. An idea you have for a project will tal 
flight. Don't count on everyone being enthusiastic --especially loved ones. *" 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Usc your.charisma and finesse to get what yc 
want in your personal lite. But when it comes to an important business arrangcmcr 
you may have to bend more than you think.***** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't be tooled by a big talker. Today yc 
will be vulnerable to other people's agendas. Deception in business can I 
expected so protect your interests by retraining from making a commitment.~ 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can get a feel fi>r what the compctitic 
is up to by listening to what everyone else is saying. A change in your profession 
direction will do you good.**** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Talk may be cheap but today it will have! 
impact on you emotionally. Be careful not to retaliate or to say things you' 
regret later. Keep your guard up but don't take action just yet. * * 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your need to interact with others can be satislil 
ifyou volunteer to help a cause you believe in. Money can be made ifyou a1 
smart with your investments. Approach someone who owes you money --it 
time to collect. *** 

Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, caring and willing to go beyond the call c duty. You are curious, inventive and easily upset ifsomeone doesn't get wh. you are trying to do. You are a little ahead ofyour time . 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 


32 59-Across, e.g. 33 It's usually tucked in 34"Am believe 
...?" 

35 "Dee-lish!" 36 Joke responses 39 Cards, on the 
scoreboard 40 Berne's river 
45 Commercial suffix with Rock 46 Utah ski resort 48 Trivial 49" manana"
-50 Moving 51 Conspirator against Caesar 52 Popular spy show 

53 Line at an airport 54 "Bye now" 55 Spoken 57 Jampack 60 John 
61 "Well, _ monkey's uncle!" 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nvtimes.com/learninq/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name ____~------------------------------------­
Address _____________________________________ City _______________ State _______ Zip.________ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, February 1, 2006 
page 28 
-· 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Highly-regarded players expected to commit 
The group that Scout.com Tuesday. "Make that plural -the class that recruiting Web Notre Dame as the No. 7 class By MIKE GILLOON ranks as the No. 4 class in the we want to win national cham­sites have listed as one of the in the country. Sports Editor country -boasting the pionships." best in the country. ''I'm extremely excited to be 
nation's top tight end, No. 2 Irish coach Charlie Weis, Scout.com lists the Irish as with these guys," Reuland said 
One of the more highly tout­offensive lineman and a pair of who due to NCAA regulations having 12 four-star verbal in an interview with The ed Irish recruiting classes in blue-chip quarterbacks -is not allowed to comment commitments and three five­Observer Tuesday. "We're real­recent memory is expected to holds high expectations. publicly on a recruit until he star recruits -tight end ly excited to get out there. become official today when "We want to win a national signs his letter of intent, will Konrad Reuland, running back "I was on the phone with Notre Dame's 28 known verbal championship," offensive line hold a press conference at James Aldridge and offensive [Irish linebacker verbal com-recruits are allowed to sign recruit Eric Olsen said in an noon today in the Guglielmino lineman Sam Young. national letters of intent. interview with The Observer Athletics Complex discussing Rivals.com, meanwhile, lists see RECRUITS/page 25 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Looking for a rebound 
Team gets chance for Carter contributing turnaround at WVU more as he develops 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor Sports Writer 
West Virginia knows first­This time last season, Notre hand what Notre Dame is Dame guard Russell Carter was going through. barely playing. He averaged just 
The Mountaineers were 8.5 minutes in 2005 and logged struggling with one league two minutes in a 65-60 loss to victory last season when Villanova on Jan. 26 oflast year. Notre Dame came to In stark contrast, Carter start­Morgantown. The Irish won ed against the Wildcats by 13 -their fourth league Saturday, playing 31 minutes win of the season. But it was and forcing the issue on a sec­West Virginia who found the ond-half Irish comeback. momentum from that point Notre Dame fell short on a forward to carry them to the Kyle Lowry tip-in with 1.7 sec­Sweet 16, while Notre Dame onds remaining, and Carter watched from home. fouled out, but his aggressive 
The Irish are hoping to moves and athleticism put 
see HOOPS/page 24 see CARTER/page 22 

SMC BASKETBALL 

Fourth-place Belles to face MIAA rival Olivet 
By TIM KAISER Sports Writer 

Two MIAA rivals will vie for third place in the confer­ence tonight at 7:30 p.m. when Saint Mary's travels to Olivet with hopes of avenging a 92-55 loss 
to the See Also 

c;omets on Jan. 5. "Kessler wins The win 
MIAA honor" 
last month gave Olivet a page 12 perfect 4-0 record, and Saint Mary's fell to 3-2. However, tonight the Comets might have trouble recogniz­ing the team they played before. 
The Belles have run their record to 9-11 overall and 7­4 in the MIAA, good enough for fourth place in the con­ference -right behind Olivet and its 8-2 conference mark. The Belles have won two straight and four of their last five, all against confer­ence opponents. 
A win tonight would put pressure on the Comets to hold their lead, as the Belles look to continue to improve upon their record under 
see BELLES/page 23 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish win in Carrier Dome 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
The Irish may have turned the corner. Notre Dame (13-7, 4-5 Big East) topped Syracuse (9-12, 2­
8) in the two teams' first-ever meeting in the Carrier Dome Tuesday night, 67-55, moving the Irish to just one game under .500 in Big East play. 
"I think we were desperate [to get a win] at this point in the season," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said after the game. "We needed it badly." 
Coming off a blowout loss to Rutgers and an overtime defeat at the hands of South Florida in 
see ORANGE/page 26 

PHIL HUDELSON/The Observer 
Chandrica Smith drives to the hoop against DePaul on Jan. 
17. The Irish improved to 4-5 in the Big East Tuesday. 
en 
NBA 
OLYMPICS 
PGA 
NCAA fOOTBAll 

SPORT 
SUPER BOWl Xl 
IU

c.:» Hornets to stay in 
Snowboarders 

Woods defeats 
Mustain to sign 

New Jersey 91 
Coaches are a 
z Oklahoma City 
hope for sweep 
Garcia 
with Arkansas 

Detroit 84 
contrast of styles
::5 

=
c:s The NBA announced 
The U.S. Snowboard 
Tiger Woods won the 
Despite decommitting 

Jason Kidd and the 
Coaches Bill Cowher 
that the Hornets will 
team hopes for a repeat 
Buick Invitational over 
earlier this season, the 

Nets stopped the 
and Mike Holmgren
< stay in Oklahoma for 
of its performance at the 
rival Sergio Garcia. 
stellar quarterback will 

Pistons' NBA-best 11­
took very different
=: most of 2006-07. 
last Winter Olympics. 
likely sign with his 

game winning streak. 
routes to Detroit in 
hometown team. 
2006.

en page 21 
page 21 
page 21 
page 21 
page 19 

page 18 




