~~------­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Changes, controversy mark 1 Monologues' 
Performances to be follawed by discussions 
By AMANDA MICHAELS A"islant Nt-ws Ediwr 
As the controversial play "Thn Vagina Monologues" makns thn move from l>nBartolo stagn to DeBartolo dassroom this wnnk, the event will takn on a distinctly more acadnmie tonn -and not just hncause of its nnw location. 
For thP first time in the Eve Enslnr play's live-year history at Notrn Damn, eaeh perform­anen will bn dirnctly followed h y a p a 111~ I d i s e u s s i o n o n 
"Ftnnaln  Sexuality  and  
Vio In net~  Against  Worn en:  
Secular  and  Thnologieal  

Pnrspnetivns," wjth a diiTnrnnt 
see PANELS/page 8 

Students rehearse Eve Ensler's "The Vagina Monologues" last year to prepare for their perform­ances. "The Monologues" will be performed this week In a DeBartolo Hall classroom. 


Gay film festival draws large crowds 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
Saim Mary"s Ediror 
Whiln a cloud of debate lnavns its future at Notre Damn undnar, the film series "(;ay and Lnsbian Film: Filmmakers, Narratives and Spndatorship" drnw largn audinncns and strong praise from attrHJdnns ovnr the wnnknnd. 
Tlw nvnnt formnrly known as thn Qunor Film Festival ­now in its third ynar at Notre Damn ran Thursday through Saturday and fna­turr~d scrrwnings of six diiTnr­nnt l"ilrns and snv11ral panel discussions. 
Marlin Laina, a graduate studnnt and co-ehair of the film snries, said attendance was strong. 
"I would say turnout for the films was considerably high­or than in the past," 
Laina said. 
Thfl event's name was ehangnd this year as a result of Univnrsity negotiations with student organizers and the Film, Television and Theatre department, the tra­ditional sponsor of the film sPries. In his Jan. 23 and 24 addresses to students, faeulty and alumni on aeademie l"reedom and Catholic chante­tnr, University President Father John Jenkins said the ovenl's previous title seemed "to celebrate homosexual 
see FILM/page 8 


Revue wages war of laughs, entertainment 
By KAITLYNN RILEY 
News Wrircr 
Thn organizers of the Knnnan Hnvue vowed to light a "war against humorless­nnss-ness" this wePkend ­and thnn delivered on"\hnir promise with 31-1 skits during tlw three nights of the 30th annual show. 
Audience members in Saint Mary's ()'Laughlin Auditorium Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights reaeted posi­tively to tho two-hour evnnt. 
"Let's just say my faee kind of hurts from laughing so mueh," NotrP DamP frnshman Liz BPrger said al'tnr Friday's pnrformance. 
The introduction to the show mentioned the Hevue 
eatered to a mostly female audienee, which beeame apparent as both acts of the show began with Keenanites stripping off their elothing in synchronized dance routines. 
The Hcvue touched on sev­eral current issues at Notre Dame. In a serins of sketches, Keenan Hevue stuntman Vince Lyzinsld spent 30 see­onds braving "The Vagina Monologuns," the "Gay and Lesbian Film: Filmmakers, Narratives and Spectatorship" event and open-mic night at Legends. 
Another skit commented on Notre Dame's lack of diversi­ty. It introdueed the University's most diverse class, consisting of about 20 
see REVUE/page 6 

A Keenan Hall resident Impersonates Indiana Jones on a quest to obtain "The Golden V" during Saturday's Keenan Revue. 

Play's content both explicit, affirming 
By KATIE PERRY Assistant News Editor 
The future balanee of aca­demic freedom and Catholie eharaeter at Notre Dame is not the only mystery on earn­pus as of late. For many stu­dfmts, the content and pur­pose of one of the debate's most central topics, "The Vagina Monologues," is also an enigma. 
Writte.n by Ameriean play­wright and feminist aetivist Eve Ensler, "The Vagina Monologues" is an episodie, theatrical pnrformanee featur­ing a east of women sharing experiences and views on the female reproductive organ. 
see PLAY/page 6 


Authorities investigate NDbreach 
Source of intrusion yet to be determined 
By MADDIE HANNA 
Associate News Editor 
While the invr~stigation into the Jan. 13 security breach of a Notre Damn 
I> eve lopmen t Office se rvn r has not yet dPtnrminnd tlw source of the intrusi·on, no direct evidrmee of fraud has been reportnd to thn Univnrsity, a Notre Dame ol'fieial said. 
"Forensic experts are still assessing the server itsnlf and criminal investigators eontinue to examine the inei­dent to identify potential per­petrators," Vicn President of Publie Affairs and Communication llilary Crnkovich said in a statr1­ment Thursday. 
Thn information at risk ­belonging to a "minority" of alumni donors and friends of the University, Crnkovich said Jan. 22 -could include Soeial Sncurity numbers, credit card information and eheek images from donations made betwenn Nov. 22, 2005 and Jan. 12. 
Crnkovich declined to eom­ment Jan. 22 on how many donors were potentially at risk. · 
While the University reeeived hundreds of phonn ealls on Jan. 23 -the first businnss day after the breach 
see BREACH/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, February 13, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Getting to -work 
Sunday: the dreaded day when the weekend is drawing to a close and you remember all of the things you have been putting off. After recounting the weekend's festivities you know that the work has to begin. A pile of work lies Deirdre Krasula before you, and you sit down to start, but honestly, Sports Writer you know that something else will once again get in the way. 
The list of things that deter you from doing work is endless. Technology was supposed to make our Jives easier, but ifyou askme, it's only complicated it. Instant messages constantly popping up when you are trying to fmish that paper, Facebook walls that need con­tinual checking, a phone eall that just has to be made -this Jist could go on forever. 
It seems that the only skill I have truly come to perfect is the art of pro­crastination. 100 pages to read tonight? I'll get to that just as soon as "Grey's Anatomy" is over. It's not like TV networks have helped the matter either. It seems that there is always some new show coming out. My room­mate is obsessed with "Ameriean Idol;" I on the other hand am not as big of a fan, but if it's on in the room and I hap­pen to be walking through, I'm done for. I will sadly admit to the fact that I have been known to sit down and watch an episode here and there of "Skating with Celebrities." It's just such great cinematic genius you can't tear your eyes away. I have known people who have been consumed by "Lost." I do believe that a few of them disap­peared for a few days and reemerged having successfully fmished watching the entire first season. Needless to say, they are not available on Wednesday nights if there is a new episode on. 
I have tried to lock myself away from all possible distractions. The second floor of the library seems like as good a place as any to get work done. I've attempted to loek myself away up there in a futile attempt to study. The place is like a black hole. I have spent hours in there trying to cram mountains of information into my head without even realizing that I knew the person sitting two feet away from me. It's one of the few places where ifI sit down and say that I am going to work, some of it actually does get done. Unfortunately, it's also a place where I have a tenden­cy to lose track of the world around me. During study days I went to the library in flip-flops only to emerge four hours later and discover that there were about four inches of snow on the ground. 
Most of the time, though, I can't bring myself to truck to the library, I spend the majority of my time in front of my computer "doing work." I was recently introduced to a Harry Potter quiz online that has eaten up precious hours of study time. When you get down to it, I spend more time saying that I'm going to do work than actually doing it. I admit to my problem, though I doubt that I'll ever really change my ways, no matter how hard I try. 
Come to think of it, I never did fmish that paper. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publicatipn and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WILL YOU BE ATTENDING "THE VAGINA MONOLOGUES"? WHY OR WHY NOT? 







Claire Lauretius  Beth Guidicessi  Lauren Cummings  Colleen Peabody  Bridget Higgins  
sophomore Cavanaugh  senior Cavanaugh  freshman Cavanaugh  freshman Cavanaugh  sophomore Cavanaugh  
"No ... I'm an engineer so I'll be in a hole all weekend."  'Wever heard of that."  "Well, ifyou've ever been to a dorm party you know all the  "Yeah, I'm taking Lauren on a date for V-day. ~·  "No, because I think there are better ways to approach the  

Cavanaughties will be there. " 


years because they want­ed to spend some time apart. 
Ken, who appears to have spent time in the gym and at the stylist, returns wearing a beach­wear ensemble complete with board shorts and white T-shirt. 
For her part, Barbie publicist Lauren Dougherty said Barbie "appreciates the new look Ken is sporting. He really looks great. But we'll have to stay tuned to see whether these two will get back together." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
issue. 
IN BRIEF 
The men's tennis team will host Bradley University in 
the  Eck  Tennis  Pavilion  
today at 5 p.m.  
The  Creative  Writing  

Program, Department of English and Student Union Board will sponsor a lecture and reading by James Salter in the Oak Room of South Dining Hall tonight at 7 p.m. as part of the 2006 Literary Festival. The event is free and open to the public. 
A children's storytime Valentine's Day party will be held Tuesday at the Hammes Bookstore. Stories and activi­ties will be led by Kay Londergan beginning at 1 
p.m. and the public is wel­come to attend. 
A Student Night hosted by Kevin Guilfoile and featuring slam poet Saul Williams will be held Tuesday at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. The event is sponsored by the Creative Writing Program as part of the 2006 Literary Festival and is open to the public. 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team will take on University South Florida at 
7:30 p.m. Wednesday in the Joyce Center Arena. 
The Saint Mary's psycholo­gy department will host a lecture by Notre Dame head football coach Charlie Weis Thursday at 1 p.m. in the Vander Vennet Theater in the Student Center. Weis will discuss autism and global delays as part of psychology week at the College. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

THURSQAY FRIDAY 

HIGH LOW 

45 
27 

Ken doll tries to win Barbie back with makeover 
NEW YORK -He's been to the gym, looks buff and stylish, and now Barbie's boy toy Ken wants to win back the doll he s p l i t f r o m t w 0 y e a r s ago. 
After a two-year separa­t i o n , Ken


Mattei Inc. said on Thursday that Barbie's long-time suitor wants to rekindle his decades-long romance with his plastic 
paramour. 
Mattei is hoping Ken's return to retail stores can also revitalize the company's overall for­tunes. In January, the company blamed sagging Barbie sales for sagging profits. 
"Ken has revamped his life -mind, body and soul," Hollywood stylist and Mattei consultant Phillip Bloch said in a statement. "Everyone knows how difficult it is to change, especially when you've lived your life a certain way for more than four decades." 
Mattei said in February 2004 that Barbie and Ken had split after 43 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

a:: 
1&.1 
::c 
~ 
1&.1 
3: 
..... 
<
(.) 0 


..... HIGH 30 HIGH 30 HIGH 40 LOW 29 LOW 25 LOW 34 

29 25 

Monday, February 13, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

'The Edith Stein Project,' organizers redefine fetninistn 

from around the world, address­other groups to sponsor a con­
By RYAN SYDLIK ing topics ranging from female ference dedicated to redefining 
News Writer migrant labor to abortion rheto-feminism. 
ric and attracting hundreds of Shaughnessy said she felt the 
At the dosing banqunt of "The registered guests, including stu­program was a great success Edith Stein Project," Director of dents from Dayton and adults and that the creators achieved the Notre Dame Center for from Texas and California. what they set out to do. Ethics and Culture David Josef Seifert, a distinguished "There have been a lot of peo-Solomon said when Notre Dame professor at the ple here, and we studnnts want to address an International are almost at full
"It was good to see
issue, they immndiately jump to Academy of capacity," she said. the idea that thny need to have a Philosophy in people get to the "People are engag­conference. With "The Edith Liechtenstein in roots." ing in issues and Stein Project: Hedefining western Europe, discussing them Feminism" conference, however, made the inter­with one another." 
Madeleine Ryland 
throe Notre Dame students national trip to Shaughnessy also aetually carried their idea out to speak at the con­event organizer said the trio its eompletion. ference about the received ample out­
OfT-campus senior Caitlin late Pope John side support when Shaughnessy, Howard Hall jun­Paul It's philosophy of love and planning the project. ior Anamaria Scaperlandia-Huiz self-donation. lie said he "A lot of people have and Cavanaugh junior Medicine thought the project was impres­expressed [that] what we are Hyland organized the confer­sive, especially having been doing is very important," she ence, held Friday and Saturday developed by young people. said. in the McKenna Center for "That is why I traveled here One of the main purposes of Continuing Education. from Europe," Seifert said. the conference was to talk about 
The conference discussed The conference's formation these issues in the context of attacks on the dignity of women began simply, with three Notre women's dignity and identity, in contemporary culture Dame students -inspired par­Scaperlandia-Ruiz said. through abortion, violence tially by feminist author Gloria Scaperlandia-Ruiz also said against women, rape, Conde's book, the organizers' goal was to "get pornography and "New Woman" core at what is being attacked
"People are

other issuns, as well spending by eating disorders, violence, [et as how women can engaging in issues long hours at cetera]" rather than just bettnr understand Coleman-Morse address the problems superfi­
and discussing
their vocations in life. researching cially.
them with one
It was named in ideas and con­Ryland said she thought honor of philosopher another." tacting experts Saturday's discussions especially and Carmelite nun on the topics. brought a lot of topics to the Edith Stein because of But eventual-table and that it was great to 

Caltlln Shaughnessy ly, the frame-
her work in the see where people were in agree­Catholic Woman's event organizer work behind the ment and disagreement. Movement in project grew. "It was good to see people get Germany, her love of philosophy Shaughnessy, Scaperlandia-Ruiz to the roots," she said. and hnr death at Auschwitz. Hyland enlisted the Notre Dame Shaughnessy said she was 
"The Edith Stein Project" fea­Center for Ethics and Culture, pleased the conference was a turnd more than 20 speakers Notre Dame Hight to Life and good combination of not only philosophy and theology but also of personal experience and general stories about life. In addition, she said she was appreciative that people had not only attended, but also partici­pated and engaged, in the event. 
Notre Dame sophomore and participant Dominic Pepper said he admired the courage of the event organizers for developing the conference. 
"It was incredible that three girls got together and in a year had a conference," he said. "They put hun­
life, femininity, family and the dignity of women. 
Seifert also said the strength of the conference is that it is not specialized. 
"It's not just from one point of view, and it is not just theology [or) philosophy," he said. 
Instead, Seifert said, it repre­sented a wide field composed of mothers, students, professors, lawyers and World Youth Alliance representatives among others. 
Seifert praised the personal 
notes that "one 

dreds of hours into this, easily."  ''The connection  normally does not lind in such con­ 
The conference's  has been  ferences," includ­ 
speakers also had positive reactions to the event. Erica Bove, one  established !between/ God's love for us and the  ing two women describing their personal experi­ences with rape  
of the numerous speakers at the conference, addressed the spir­ dignity ofeach person. It's a great framework for  and how to cope as well as a per­sonal story about conllicts bntween  
itual dimension of eating disorders.  looking at women. "  marriagn and graduate study at  
She  said  it  was  Harvard.  
wonderful to see so  Erica Bove  Seifert,  an  
many men explor­ speaker  expnrt  on  the  
ing the issues of  writings of Pope  
the conference and  John Paul II, also  

working to create a better envi­said there was a correlation ronment for women. between the late pope and the 
"The connection has been conference -that his encycli­established [betweenJ God's love cals and travels inspired many for us and the dignity of each of the people in attendance. person," she said. "It's a great "They call themselves mem­framework for looking at bers of the Pope John Paul II women." Generation, creating a culture of 
Seifert said the conference Life as opposed to thn culture of aimed to gather people of all Death," he said. groups, academic and nonacad­emic, dedicated to the goals of Contact Ryan Sydlik at commitment to and respect for rsydlik@nd.edu 
Student Body President 





Today 
Vote online 8AM-8PM https://apps.nd.edu/elections/ 

Candidates 

Ryan Black & Christine Martinez Ryan McCune & Tim Szewczyk Jason Laws & Bob Costa Lizzi Shappell and Bill Andrichik 
Erica Wells & George Chamberlain 

If you have questions, please contact the Judicial Council at jcouncil@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 13, 2006 
Notre Da111e Debate Tea111 hosts national tournalllent 
By ADRIENNE RUFFNER 
News Writer 
Dozens of students from uni­versities around the country came to Notre Dame this week­end to debate topics ranging from affirmative action to reali­ty television and to sightsee around a campus seeped in tra­dition. 
The Notre Dame Debate Team hosted the Irish Invitational national debate tournament Friday through Sunday. In the tournament, 75 teams of two students apiece competed for top honors in 



Breach 
continued from page 1 
was reported -calls to the University's toll-free hotline had "virtually ceased" as of Thursday, Crnkovich said. 
Donors possibly affected by the breach were sent a letter Jan. 20 and an e-mail Jan. 21 from Vice President of University Relations Louis Nanni, who advised the group to take appropriate safeguards by visiting a newly-created support Web site and call the toll-free number established by the University. 
Gordon Wishon, chief infor­mation officer for the Office of Information Technologies, said Jan. 22 the University was working with two inde­pendent forensics firms to analyze the server but said the source of the intrusion might never be determined -especially if the hack orig­inated overseas or if several relay sites were involved. 
The ongoing investigation also includes a broader examination of how the University safeguards all confidential information. 
"The Data Oversight Committee, established over one year ago, is taking addi­tional steps to secure University data," Crnkovich said. "This Committee con­tinues to assess the current information technology infra­structure, business processes and acceptable use policies, and make recommendations and improvements for data protection while striking a balance for ease of use and sharing of information in the most optimal manner." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 


more than 50 classrooms in DeBartolo Hall -a large increase from last year's tour­nament, which hosted only 27 teams. 
The Notre Dame Debate Team is composed of students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross and competes in several national debate tourna­ments each year. The team hosted the event but did not compete. Instead, members organized the tournament and helped competitors find their way around campus. The event was free and open to the public. 
"It was great to show the other kids the school and give them an opportunity to see our campus," said senior Tim Fiorta, captain of the Notre Dame Debate Team's parlia­mentary team. "Everyone ­the coaches and the team mem­bers -were really happy with the way the tournament ran." 
While the Irish Invitational began in the mid-1990's, this was the first year the tourna­ment included policy debate. 
"Policy debate requires a lot more research," Notre Dame Director of Debate Susan Ohmer said. "We put parlia­mentary debate in classrooms on the first two floors of DeBartolo so people stopping in could see the all the different topics, and policy debate was on the third floor." 

Case Western Reserve University won first place in the Varsity Policy category. In Varsity Policy, competitors debate the same topic over the course of the entire academic year. The topic this year con­cerns relations between the United States and China. 
Ferris State won first place in the Varsity Parliamentary cate­gory. Parliamentary debate top­ics changed each round and included current events such as the war in Iraq, immigration policies, affirmative action and US foreign aid to Africa. 
More than 20 schools were invited to the Irish Invitational, including Miami University of Ohio, Marquette University, the University of Illinois and the University of Texas at San Antonio. 
"People love coming to Notre Dame," Ohmer said. "They love going to the bookstore to buy mugs and T-shirts ... this year we [gavel authentic Notre Dame footballs to the top speakers in each category, and they were so excited. I love it." 
Contact Adrienne Ruffner at aruffner@nd.edu 

We believe everyone's more successful in afl.exible environment. 
We want you to succeed. That's why we've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. At Ernst &Young we're offering an opportunity to learn from some of the best talent in the industry. So visit us on campus, or on the Web at ey.comjusjcareers. Whatever's best for you. Were flexibfe. 




ORLD & N·ATION 
Monday, February 13, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WlRF SERVJCES page 5 
------_:.___:=:====--=--=--==--==========================--= 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Election results allegedly fraudulent 
I'OBT-AU-I'IUNCE-A member of' llaiti's elertoral eoundl said results of' the presiden­tial Plndions wnrn lming manipulatnd, echo­ing eomplaints by throngs of' supporters of Herw Preval. who poun•d into the strents on Sunday with angry allogations of' fraud. 
With 75 perccmt of' vot«~s countnd, Proval was l'alling short of' winning Tuesday's elec­tions outright by loss than hall' a percontago point. 
"According to me, thnrn's a cortain lnvol of manipulation," Pierro Hir.hard Dudwmin, an nlnrtoral rounril member, told Tlw Assodated l'n~ss. adding that "them is an e(Tort to stop people l'rom asking qw~st.ions" about tho tabulation procoss. 
Durhmnin said Sunday ho noodod across to tallies of' volt~ counts in hopos of' learning who was behind the alleged manipulation. lie rallml l'or an investigation. 
Markets remain open despite flu 
1.!\(;0S -Nigeria ignored international rerommendations l'or stopping bird l'lu, kP«>ping poultry markets open on Sunday and 1«-tting peoplo rnovo tlwir birds around most ol' the c:ountry unrnstrieted. 
Ol'fidals were awaiting word on wlwther tlw virus alroady had inf'erted people in Africa's most populous nation. Test results WPrt~ pending on two sick children near a farm wlwrn tho 115N I strain was first dett~clnd among poultry. Their families also were bt>ing tested. 
Topn Ajakaiyn, a spokesman for Nigeria's Agrir.ulturn Ministry, said there were no plans to rlostl poultry marktlls or restrict thn trade or rnovmnent of' poultry as rec­ornmnndt~d by international organizations. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Cheney misses bird, hits companion 
COBI'US CIIHISTI, Texas -Vico Prnsident Dick Cheney acddontally shot and wounded a mmpanion during a weekend quail hunt­ing trip in Texas, spraying the fellow hunter in the race and dwst with shotgun pellets. 
!larry Whittington, a millionaire attorney l'rom Austin, was in stable condition in the intnnsive care unit of a Corpus Christi hos­pital on Sunday, according to Yvonne Whtwlnr, spokeswoman for the Christus Spohn llnalth Systnm. 
Thn incident oecurred Saturday at a ranch in south Texas where the vice presi­dnnt and two companions were hunting quail. It was not reported publicly by the viee president's ofliee for nearly 24 hours, and then only after the incidnnt was report­nd locally by the Corpus Christi Caller­Timns. 
Lung disease kills 'Jaws' author 
NEW YOHK -Peter Benchley, whose novnl "Jaws" terrorized millions of swim­mers nven as the author himself became an advocate f'or the conservation of sharks, has died at age 65, his widow said Sunday. 
Wendy Benchley, married to the author for 41 years, said he died Saturday night at their home in Princeton, N.J. The cause of dnath, she said, was idiopathic pul­monary 11brosis, a progressive and a fatal scarring of thn lungs. 
LOCAL NEWS 
City cemeteries ruled too cluttered 
EVANSVILLE -The mausoleums in this southwestern Indiana city are getting so duttertld with mnmentos of the deceased that ol'lieials have ordered a cleanup. 
Htdativns of those entombed in mau­solnums at Evansville's Oak llill and Locust llill cemeteries have until March 1 to remove personal items such as tables laden with photographs, figurines and other personal items from the indoor bur­ial vaults. 
IRAQ 

British soldiers accused of abuse 
Blair promises full investigation of video footage showing the alleged beatings 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD Video  
images of British soldiers  
allegedly boating Iraqi  
youths with batons and lists  
aired throughout the  
Middle East and Britain on  
Sunday, outraging locals  
and prompting British  
Prime Minister Tony Blair  
to promise a full investiga­ 
tion.  
Thn tapn was obtained by  
the News of' the World  
tabloid newspaper from a  
whistleblower it did not  
identify. The footage pur­ 
portndly shows a street con­ 
frontation in whieh Iraqi  
youths throw objects at  
British soldiers and then  
llee down the stn~et. The  
cameraman provides nar­ 
ration and urges the sol­ 
diers on.  
The soldiers apparently  
chase the Iraqis, catch at  
least three and drag them  
through a gate into a fenced  
in arna, according to the  
footage. The civilians are  
then pulled to the ground  
and beaten by at least live  
allegnd British soldiers with  
batons and fists.  
One of the civilians has  
his shirt ripped ofT.  
The footage then shows  
what appnars to be another  
group of soldiers dragging Blair said allegations of abuse by British troops In Iraq would be fully Investigated after  
in another civilian and broadcasters aired video footage that showed soldiers allegedly beating clvllfan teens.  
beating him with batons.  
The newspaper claims the video was filmed in  "They deserve our fullest  brutal act. Iraqis don't  second-largest eity, about  
southern Iraq by a corporal two years ago. The British government said military polic,e were investigating. "We take seriously any allegations of mistreatment and those will be investigat­ed very fully indeed," Blair said in South Africa while  support in the work they are doing." A Ministry of Defense spokesman, Brig. Martin Hutledge, said the images were "extremely disturbing and are the subject of an urgent Hoyal Military Police investigation." Basra City Council chief  deserve such treatment," al-Abadi said. The News of the World said it had made exhaustive cheeks to confirm the authenticity of the latest video. Arab satellite television stations, including Al­Jazeera and Al-Arabiya,  340 miles southeast or Baghdad. "This is good proof of the violations of human rights being committed by British troops in Basra," said Akil al-Bahadily, an ollidal from the Basra oiTiee of the radi­cal Shiite cleric Muqtada ai­Sadr.  
attending a meeting of cen­ter-left politicians. However, he added that "the overwhelming majority of British troops, in Iraq as elsewhere, behave properly, are doing a great job for our country and for the wider world."  Mohammed al-Abadi said local leaders wanted quick action taken on the investi­gation and an assurance that Iraqis will not be "humiliated further" by coalition forces. "We condemn and denounce this criminal and  replayed the footage throughout the day and jux­taposed the images along­side pictures from the i\bu Ghraib prisoner abuse scandal. Most of Britain's more than 8,000 troops in Iraq are based in Basra, Iraq's  Basra residnnt Muhannad al-Moussaoui said, "We thank God that it comes from their own photogra­phy. Many considnr the actions normal eomparnd to what happens behind elosed doors, which is greater."  

CHINA 


Business of love gains popularity 
Associated Press 
BEIJING -The gateway to mari­tal bliss has a frosted glass door em blazoned with two candy-apple red hearts and lots of computers. 
Introducing the Beijing Military and Civilian Matchmaking Service, one of a growing number of Chinese companies that are marry­ing high technology and low-tech tradition to spawn romantic unions. 
Homance and marriage have changed drastically in China after 25 years of breakneck economic growth and looser social controls. 
In a country now wide open to Western influences, even Valentine's Day is making inroads, with chocolates, dinner dates, flow­ers and cards all becoming popular expressions of affection on the occasion -dubbed Qing Hen Jie, or Lovers' Day. 
For centuries, families relied on village matchmakers. Then came communist-era unions, sanctioned -and sometimes arranged -by government companies for their employees. 
Today, the search is driven by personal choice, sped up by the convenience of the latest technolo­
gy. 

"China is now l'rne and transpar­ent. Everyone has tho freedom to find their partner," said Wang Peng, a divorced 43-year-old who was making his first visit to the Beijing service. 
"Now people can meet face-to­face, talk about their fnelings, exchange ideas," said Wang, a businessman with carefully combed hair. "They can lind a common lan­guage and be together." 
The first state-sponsored match­making agency opened in 1986, when China was still emerging from its communist straitjacket. 
Monday, February 13, 2006 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Revue 
continued from page 1 
white students with popped collars -and one Ilispanic student. ­
Notre Dame football also sclrved as the subject of sever­al skits. In a parody of the Superfan sketches from "Saturday Night Live," Superfans of head coach Charlie Weis predicted "Da Irish" would beat Georgia Tech in the opening game of the 2006 sp,ason by a score of 256 to negative four. They opined that Notre Dame jun­ior football wide receiver Jeff Samardzija would emerge vic­torious in a game against a team of sharks in the Atlantic Ocean. 
One of the most well received skits centered on Sergeant Tim McCarthy, the famous pun announcer at Notre Dame football games. In the skit, McCarthy is pulled over by the police for driving under the influence when the policeman finds a dead prosti­tute in the backseat. The McCarthy impersonator tries to use his jokes to get out of an arrest, but is led away by a police officer while saying "Hemember, if you get behind the wheel while hammered, you just might get nailed in the prison shower." 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's girls were also the brunt of many jokes. In a skit titled "Indiana Jones and the Basilica of Doom," Jones embarked on a quest to obtain the Golden V-virgin­ity -which lay under the protection of HesLife. He found the Golden V and replaced it with an item of equal worth -a case of Keystone Light. When Indiana returned from his mission with the Golden V, he was surprised to see his young sidekick already had two and asked where he got them. The sidekick replied, "I went over to Saint Mary's. They give them out for free." 
ResLife was another popu­lar victim of the Hevue's humor. Keenan resident Michael Varley sang "REScape," a song to the tune of Enrique Iglesias's "Escape." Varley sang, "You can run, you can hide, but you can't escape HesLife." In another skit, a Keenan Geisha berated a lower Geisha for breaking parietals. 
Two skits transferred com­puter or Internet programs into real life. In "Facebook Party," a male Notre Dame student sent the "Facebook guy" to poke a potential love interest, and later a "beauti­ful bus" ran the girl over. The skit ended in a confrontation between Facebook and MySpace. 


Members of Keenan 4 North brought the computer game Oregon Trail to life. As they traveled along the trail, they discovered "wild fruit" -rep­resented by a flamboyantly gay man wearing a "Gay? Fine by Me" shirt. 
The Keenan Revue is known for testing the bounds of pro­priety, and this year was no different. One skit showed severely disabled people com­peting in the Special Olympics version of Global Guts.' The Keenan Revue News displayed a picture depicting University President Father Jenkins as the lead actor in the sequel to the movie "The Forty-Year­Old Virgin." 

Notre Dame sophomore Kathleen Karrenbauer attend­ed the show Friday night. 
"I think I liked the Oregon Trail part the most, and [I liked I the fruit scene because that was so unexpncted," Karrenbauer said. "The hand­icapped one I really dido 't know what to think ... It was funny, but at the same time, I was like, 'I can't believe they just did that.' But that's the whole point of the Keenan Revue." 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

experiences, both traumatic sexual, extra-marital hetero­are as explicit. The perform­in the play's introduction ­and pleasurable. sexual and auto-erotic experi­ance is an eclectic collection of "nothing is more important

Play 

University President Father ences." publicly deemed controversial than stopping violence toward John Jenkins referred to the Jenkins said he had "difficul­and uncontroversial material. women," Ensler wrote.
continued from page 1 

play in a Jan. 24 address to ty seeing" the candid accounts That reputation has caused "When you rape, beat, maim, faculty mem-as "the appropri­opponents of "The Vagina mutilate, burn, bury and ter­Ensler starred in the original bers, saying ate means" to the Monologues" to point to its rorize women, you destroy the play, which debuted off­such material ultimate goal of more graphic accounts and essential life energy on the
'The concern that I 

Broadway in 1996. In subse­was not in promoting female supporters to emphasize the planet," she said. "You force quent years, celebrities and accordance with and many others empowerment and play's more empowering what is meant to be open, other cultural icons replaced Catholic values eradicating vio­angles. trusting, nurturing, creative
have is that in The 

Ensler as the mouthpieces for at the core of lence against One section of the play dis­and alive to be bent, infertile
Vagina Monologues' 

women represented in the Notre Dame's women. cusses the long-tabooed topic and broken." account. Contemporary pro­academic and ... there is no hint of Some of the most of menstruation -especially "The Vagina Monologues" ductions o_f "The Vagina institutional explicit parts of as it applies to young women has garnered increased inl1u­
central elements of 

Monologues" -such as those foundation. the play involve -while another monologue ence since its induction with
Catholic sexual 

to be performed in classrooms "The concern descriptions of weaves together the testi­the recent addition of interna­at Notre Damn -assign a dif­that I and many morality. " casual sexual monies of Bosnian women who tional performances and a ferent actress to each role. others have is encounters, exple­endured the trauma of rape cable television version of the The theme of the vagina that in 'The tive-laden camps. show on HBO. Each year, a
Father John Jenkins

makes the fragmented individ­Vagina accounts of the The last monologue in the new monologue is appended to
University President 

ual stories in thn play coher­Monologues' ... use of tampons, play's 1998 edition is a person­the play to maintain its ent. Each monologue deals there is no hint douches and gyne­al testimony from Ensler her­dynamic naturn and remain with a particular issue pertain­of central ele-cological tools and self, in which the author current with modern issues of ing to the female sex organ, ments of Catholic sexual one dominatrix's detailed cele­recounts the birth of her womanhood. including childbirth, menstru­morality," Jenkins said in thn bration of her love for women granddaughter. ation, gynecol<igy, rape, domi­address. "The work contains clients. The underlying theme of the Contact Katie Perry natrix practices and sexual graphic descriptions of homo-But not all the monologues play is made succinctly elear at kperryS@nd.edu 
SpaciQus Apartments 
Fantastic location Offering Great Rent Specials affordable Weight Room & Business Center 
flying lessons 
Hu9e Swimming Pool 
from South Bend Regional Airpon Sauna, Whirlpool, & Free Tanning Indoor/Outdoor Basketball & Tennis Gated Community 


THE OBSERVER 





USINESS

Monday, February 13, 2006 page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 


10,919.05 +11.31

Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1.691 151 1.586 2,442.958,200 

AMEX I ,808.88 -22.17 NASDAQ 3,119.08 +16.09 NYSE 7,980.00 ~o~T7 S&PSOO I ,266.99 +~~21 NIKK£l(Tokyo) 16.257.83 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 5,764.10 -44.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ) +0.61 +0.25 40.96 
INTEL CP (INTC) + 1.38 +0.29 21.29 
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) + 1.07 +0.21 19.76 
APPLE COMPUTER (AAPL) +3.63 +2.36 67.31 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) 0.00 0.00 12.69 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE +0.88 +0.40 45.81 13-WEEK BILL +0.64 +0.28 44.25 30-YEAR BOND -2.07 -0.96 45.43 5-YEAR NOTE +0.88 +0.40 45.81 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.78 61.84 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) -14.60 553.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.63 79.18 
Excha Rates 

YEN 117.7500 
EURO 0.8401 
POUND 0.5731 
CANADIAN$ 1.1524 
IN BRIEF 
Trade deficit pushed to new record 
WASIIINGTON -Arnnrican appetites for all things fon,ign, from oil to ears to dothing, puslwd the trade deficit to yet another record in 2005. 
And tlw yPar's $201.6 billion def'ieit with China. the largest ever recorded with a single country, brought dmnands for a crackdown on what the U.S. sees as unfair trade practices. 
The Cornnwrce Departmnnt r(1portnd Friday that the overall tradn gap dirnbed to an all­tinw high of $725.H billion last year. Tho dPfidt was up 17.5 percent from 2004, mark­ing tlw fourth straight record. 
The d1ief culprit in pushing the deficit up last year was record global oil prices and increased U.S. demand because of a loss of Gulf Coast production following llurricano Katrina. Thn U.S. l'ornign oil bill soared to a record $251.6 billion, up 31).4 percent from 2004. 

Pfizer predicts disapointing earnings 
NEW YOHK-Pfizer Inc. disappointed Wall Stnwl on Friday with a 2006 earnings pre­diction that l'nll below analysts' forecasts whiln announdng revenue growth would bn l'lat as it continues to struggln with patent losses. 
Shares of the world's largest drug company· !'ell 66 cents, or 2.5 percent. to elose at $25.(,1{ in trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Friday's projection comes just months aftnr Pfizer reseindml its earlier forecast of dou­ble-digit growth in 200(,, and an even stronger porformance the following year. Analysts surv1'yed by Thomson Financial were expecting Pfizer's incomo to grow around 2 pen·.nnt hut now the company proj­Pc:ts it will l'all I pPrennt. 
Thn company projncts 2006 earnings ol' about $2 pPr sharP, nxduding spndal itnms. Analysts, on avnrag1~. had projected a profit of $2.04 pnr sharP. l'fiznr rnportnd adjustnd profit ol' $2.02 per sharn in 2005 on sail's ol' $!il.:l billion. Thn company said 2006 salns would bP "comparahln" to 2005. 
l'f'iznr Chief' Ex1~eutivn llenry McKinnell said in a nwnling with analysts that 2006 is a "kny ynar in our drive~ to transform l'fiznr." 


House releases Katrina findings 
Report reveals widespread abuse offederal emergency cash assistance programs 
Associated Press 
WASifiNGTON 
Unheeded warnings, poor 
planning and apathy in rec­
ognizing the scope of 
Hurricane Katrina's 
destruction led to the slow 
emergeney response from 
the White House down to 
local parishes, a House 
investigation concludes. 
The (,00-page report by a speeial Hepublican-dorni­nated House inquiry into one ol' the worst natural disasters in U.S. history concluded that late state and local evacuation ordors oxaeorbated an untrainod and inexperieneed force of f'nderal emergoncy respon­ders. 
It also said President Bush recoived poor and incomplete counsel about tho crisis unfolding in the Gulf Coast. 
Overall. the !louse report said, the federal govern­mont's response to Katrina was marked by "feckless­ness, flailing and organiza­tional paralysis." 
"Our investigation rnvl!alnd that Katrina was a national failure, an abdica­tion of the most solemn obligation to provide for the common welfaro," said a summary of the scathing report obtained Sunday by The A'isoeiatnd Prnss. 

"At every level -individ­victims. Up to 900,000 of Orloans Mayor Hay Nagin account lessons learnnd ual, corporate, philanthrop­2.5 million applicants and Louisiana Gov. !'rom a 2004 lktional storm ic, and governmental -we rncoived aid based on dupli­Kathloen Blanco to issue exercise, dubbed llurricarw failod to meet the challonge cate or invalid Social mandatory evacuations in Pam, that was supposml to that was Katrina," the Security numbers, or false the New Orleans area lnd to spndfkally tnst t.hn rngion's rnport eondudnd. addrnsses and names, con­deaths and prolonged suf­rmtdinnss. 
"In this cautionary talc. gressional investigators fering. The House invnstigation all the little pigs built hcms­round. + The White I louse was eritieiznd llomnland es of straw." "Everything that we have unable to effectively sort Sncurity Snerntary Michael 
The I louse findings mark found ... confirms oxactly through eonf1icting reports Chertol'f"s aetions, saying the first of two eongression­the indictment of the Ilouse about levee broaches and his ovnrall responsibilities al inquiries and a White Republicans," Son. Joseph othnr disaster develop­for thn f'nderal disastnr I louse review of the storm Lieberman of Connnctieut, ments, preventing rapid rnlinf' wnrn fullillnd "eithnr response expected over the that committee's top relief. late, innfl'netivnly or not at next six woeks. Democrat, said Sunday. "It's + The Federal Emergnney all." 
On Monday, the Senate shocking and it is unset­Managnment Agency suf­Thn spncial rc~port eon­llomeland Security and tling." fered from a lack of trainnd dudnd that Chnrtofl' unnne­Governmental Affairs Excerpts roleasod from and nxpnrienced personnnl. essarily dolaynd naming a Committee was to continue tho House report, which + Military assistance was top f'odnral eoordinator f'or its own investigation into issued a total of 90 sp,parate invaluable, but tho military rnlief nll'orts and thn activa­the Aug. 29 storm response findings, spreads the blame failed to coordinato with tion of an internal disastnr by examining potentially through all levels of govern­state, local and other fnder­managenwnt group. Morn widesprnad abuso in fnder­mont. al assistance organizations. prompt action by ClwrtofT af omorgency cash assis­Among the condusions: + Governmnnt oflieials at would have quiekmwd tho tance programs for disaster + Late decisions by New all levc~ls failed to take into rolinf efl'ort, thn rnport said. 


Cable legislation could lower bills 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Most cable TV subscribers would save money if allowod to pay fm only the channols they want, a Fedenll Communications Commission study said Thursday, reversing the agency's earlier f'inding that con­sumers wouldn't bonofit. 
The analysis by FCC staff' provides nnw support f'or consurrwr groups and conservatives pushing for a pirk-and-ehooso pricing system to replaco thn bundled serviens offered by the cable industry. Cable compa­nies fear that would diminish their wide distribution. 
The study gives added ammuni­tion to lawmakers and rogulators who see "a Ia carte" as a way to dean up raunchy telovision by giv­ing parents more control over tho channols their children watch. 
"I am pleased that tho commission has coneluded that 'a Ia carte' ofTer­ing could roduco consumers' cable bills by as much as 13 percent," said Sen. John McCain, B-Ariz., who plans to introduce legislation next wenk to create and promote usn of the Ia carte system. 
"The report confirms what I have believed for years -if consumers am allowed to choose tho ehannds tho i r fa 111 iIi e s vi n w t lwn their monthly cable bill will bn loss," he said. 

Senate Commeree Committen 
·Chairman Ted Stevons, B-Alaska, said if a Ia eartn won't eost con­sumnrs morn, "I will support an ofTort to take surh an approaeh, subject to discussions with providers on tlw downsidn of such a proenss." 
The industry's main trad11 group, the National Cabin & Tn lneom mu nieatio ns Association, was quick to point out the downsidn it sees. 
Monday, February 13, 2006

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Panels 
continued from page 1 
selection of speakers tonight, Tuesday and Wednesday. 
"The Vagina Monologues" was a primary point of con­cern in University president Father John Jenkins' January speeches on Catholic charac­ter and academic freedom, as Jenkins questioned the play's continued presence -per­formed annually each February -on campus. The president did not issue a firm policy in favor of or against the "Monologues" and other events, but said he hoped to make a decision 
"We welcome the 

before the the panels, semester's close. academic because one of 
"In ]the] dis­the main points
discussion and the 

cussion of of "The Vagina
panels because one

female sexuality, Monologues" is and in the com­ofthe main points of to raise aware­munity and cul­'The Vagina ness and pro­ture it.strives to mote discussion
Monologues' is to

create, there is of female sexu­no hint of cen­raise awareness and ality and ending 
tral elements of promote discussion violence against 
Catholic sexual women," said
offemale sexuality

morality," organizer Emily Jenkins said, and ending violence Weisbecker. "It 
stressing he against women." is likely that supports the some members play's goals of of the communi­
Emily Weisbecker 

affirming female ty will be at sexuality and organizer least somewhat 
reducing vio­lence against women, but disapproves of its approach. 
"I fail to see, however, how the annual performance of 'The Vagina Monologues' is the appropriate means to these ends," he said. 
While the panel discussions, already in the works in late December, were not direct results of Jenkins' speech, the variety of viewpoints they offer will potentially satisfy some of the criticisms leveled at "The Vagina Monologues," said Gail Bederman, history professor and organizer of the panels. 
"My impression is that a lot of the people who object to 'The Vagina Monologues' ... say that students are not get­ting authentic Catholic teach­ings when they see the play, so, I thought, 'Let's have a dis­cussion right in the theatre after the performance,"' she said. "]In the panels] there will be orthodox Catholic takes, feminist takes, anthro­pological takes, sociological 
takes .. . This way the audi­ence gets clear doctrine along­·side an under­standing of the ways that the Church wrestles with the difficul­ty of living in modern society." 
Tonight's panel discussion fea­tures theology and law profes­sor M. Cathleen Kaveny, theology professor Robin Darling Young · 
"One ofthe things that should happen at Notre Dame is dialogue between people that have conflicting opinions. 
Gall Bederman history professor 

and sociology professor Jackie Smith; Tuesday's includes the­ology professors Mary Doak and Reverend Paulinus Odozor and anthropology professor Carolyn Nordstrom; · and Wednesday's includes theology professor Mary Hose D'Angelo and .Jean Porter, as well as a second appearance by Nordstrom. 
OnP of the theologians par­ticipating each night will pres­ent the orthodox Catholic doc­trine on sexuality, while the other will "discuss how theolo­gians are dialoguing with cur­rent experience," Bederman said. 
The panels will begin at 9:15 
p.m. in the same venue as each night's 7 p.m. "Monologues" performance ­101 DeBartolo Hall tonight and Tuesday, and 102 DeBartolo on Wednesday. Bederman said she hopes even those who may shy away from seeing "The Vagina Monologues" will engage in the subsequent discussions. 
The student organizers of "The Vagina Monologues" responded positively to the addition of the panels. 
"We welcome the academic discussion and 
more comfort­
able with the presence of this show on cam­pus knowing that the theologi­cal perspective will be clearly presented in conjunction with each performance." 
They are, however, more ambivalent when it comes to the change in setting from last year's DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. Even though organizers said they appreciate the dialogue gener­ated by this year's show, they face the difficulties of staging a play in a classroom and not a theatre and regret the lack of fundraising opportunities in the new academic environ­ment, Weisenbecker said. 
But the change in fundrais­ing policy has lifted a degree of stigma from the event. This year, Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life will not be protesting the performance, as the group has in the past. 
"[Right to Life's I problems with the event were always in the fact that money from ("The Vagina Monologues"] was going toward the YWCA 
and the SOS, which are groups that on the national level have an anti-life sentiment," said club secretary Ian McDole. 
Bederman said while the current situation may not please everyone or drastically 
lessen the  con­ 
troversy  sur­ 
rounding  the  

play, it takes a step toward pre­serving academic 
freedom on campus. 
"One of the things that should happen at Notre Dame is dialogue between people that have conflicting opin­ions," she said. "With the panel discussions, we are con­fronting speech that is per­haps problematic not with censorship, but with more speech." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu. 

[varietyI of movies that are out there," Russell said.
FilDlS 

Tessa Sainz, a 2003 alum­na, attended screenings
continued from page 1 

every night of the series and activity." said it · was great the 
"The fact that ['The University had the opportu­Vagina Monologues' and nity to host prominent film­Queer Film Festival] have makers. been sponsored annually by Individuals choose to units of the attend univer­University, sities to and have expose them­been widely "I think it's selves to dif­
publicized, ridiculous [to hold ferent view­
prominently points, Sainz
discussions

associates the said, criticiz­
University's regarding the film ing the admin­name with series about] the istration's 
t h e m , " efforts to curb
moral issues of

Jenkins said. the film series. 
"Such occur­homosexuality. That's "I think it's rences sug­not what it's about. ridiculous lto 
gest the hold discus­
It's about films. " 

University sions regard­endorses or ing the film at least finds Tessa Sainz series about] compatible alumna the moral 
with its val­ues certain views which are not in fact compatible." 
All the film screenings were either sold out or 
• nearly sold out, Laina said, and turnout for the various panel discussions was also strong. Due to high demand, organizers added a second screening of "Brokeback Mountain" to the schedule and tickets sold out in two hours, Laina said. The quality and diversity of the films shown this year played a role in the success of the film series, Laina said. The presence of two of the films' directors ­Miguel Albaladejo. director of "Cachorro" and Don Roos, director of "Happy Endings" -on campus to speak first­hand about their work was also significant, Laina said. Junior Mac Russell saw every film at the event's inauguration two years ago and attended two screenings -"Brokeback Mountain" and "Happy Endings" -this year. He said he made the effort to go to the film series out of his own desire to see the movies and to show sup­port for AllianceND, Notre Dame's unrecognized gay/straight student group. 
"[The series has] only been getting bigger -more social events, [morel movies ... I'm always amazed at the 

issues of 
homosexuali­
ty," Sainz said. "That's not what it's about. It's about films." 
After attending several different screenings and panel discussions over the course of the film series, graduate student Theresa O'Byrne said her favorite 
movies were "Saving Face" and "Happy Endings." 
A member of AllianceND, O'Byrne said since the event is spurring controversy it was especially important that she attend to show her sup­port. 
''I'm a big supporter of academic free­dom and it's always been an issue for me 

through my college career," O'Byrne said. "Part of inquiry and part of academ­ic discussion is to look into these things that are poten­tially explosive." 
O'Byrne said she does not like the fact that the name of the film series was changed, but she was heart­ened by Jenkins' willingness to engage in open discussion about academic freedom. 
"''m pleased that he's at least brought this up -at least had the courage to stand up and bring this to the floor and [not] sweep it under the rug," O'Byrne said. 
Senior Tiffany Thompson attended the 7 p.m. screen­ing of "Brokeback Mountain" Thursday wear­ing an orange "Gay? Fine by me" T-shirt. She said she has attended at least one film during the series every year. 
. "I think [the name change] is kind of silly," Thompson said. "I don't think it is a huge thing but I didn't think it was necessary either ... We're doing the same thing." 
Freshman Sean Gaffney also attended "Brokeback Mountain" Thursday and said he was there first to see a good film and second to find out what all the dis­cussion was about. 
"I guess it's kind of a big controversy and it is always good to be knowledgeable about what is being talked about," Gaffney said. 
Laina, who will not be at Notre Dame next year, said the future of the film series 

"It is important that ifstudents and alumni feel that this event is important ... lit is] valuable that they express those views to the president. " 
Martin Laina film series co-chair 
is "very much up in the air" and will depend on the outcome of the discussion of Catholic character and academic freedom at Notre Dame. 
Laina said he took an organizing role for the event because he wanted students at the University to have the opportunity 
to see quality films and hopes it continues in the future. 
"It is important that if stu­dents and alumni feel that this event is important ... [it is] valuable that they express those views to the president," Laina said. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 


Monday, February 13, 2006 The Observer + VALENTINE NEWS page 9 
Skating sweethearts skip celebrating love 
Associated Press 
TUHIN, Italy -Apolo Anton Ohno and his girlfriend, Allison Baver, both happened to have their short-track races sched­ulod for tho day after Valnnlirw's Day. 
Sorry. Allison. 

Amnriea's speedskaling sweethearts have an agree­nwnt: Tlwre'll be no celebrating tlwir two years together at the Olympies on Feb. 14. 
"I don't know. (;iris like Valentine's Day, so that was kind of tough, but, like -we race llw next day, so ... " she said Tuosday, hor voiee trailing on· wistfully. 
''I'd like it," she added, "lweat~s~;. Italy, you know ­romantrc. 
Ohno, who made a sensation­al dobut at the Salt Lake City Olympies in 2002 by winning a gold and ll silver in the rough­and-tum bin sport, has bnen foeusml intensely on training, living in a spare apartment at the national Olympic center in Colorado Springs, Colo. 
And ko1~ping distractions at a minimum. 
"Compntitions, our pn~para­tion, our limo and our focus are much difToront than most peo­ple," he said. 
"Dating is hard" for an ath­lete, he said. "It's very hard." 
Asked at a crowded news eonfflrence what he has been doing since arriving in Turin, Ohno's answer was as span~ as his lifestyle when preparing to compete. 
"My activities have been going to the ice rink, eating, slooping. training. and this is pretty much tho only thing out of the ordinary," he said. "We'vo been trying to keep it pretty simple every day." 
Later, answering questions from smaller knots of reporters, Baver alluded to Ohno's Spartan reply. 
"It's part of his personality. 'I'm eating,' that's it," she said. "lie's not concerned about any­thing else except training, com­poling." 
There was one revealing moment by Ohno near the end of the news conference. As he walked offstage, he slowed as he passed behind Baver, who was still answering quostions, and touched her gently on the head. 
Baver. 25, will compete in the 500, the I,500 and the 3,000 relay. Ohno, 23, will compete in the 500, the 1,000, the 1,500 and the 5,000 relay. 
Ohno, who was wearing a trademark blue bandanna, even said he was "not sure" if he would march with the U.S. team at the opening ceremony on Friday, two days before tho 1,500 final. That would certain­ly be a hugo disappointment to fans of the skater who has almost rock star status. 
"Tho whole opening cere­monies process for athletes is vory long. It's like eight hours long -a lot of standing a lot of walking, a lot of waiting," he said. 
"If I feel like I may get sick or I may get too tired, then I'll probably sit back,'' he said. "I would love to participate, for sure." 
Ohno said he intensified his training because some athletes see their results "go downhill" after winning a medal. 



Day ignites mixed emotions 
Authors lament, explain the many negative aspects of the holiday 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Last Feb. 14, Liz Tuccillo called directory assistance to get a phone number for a store. Big mis­take. 
A message greeted her: "Happy Valentine's Day." It was the last thing Tuccillo ­43, single and the eo-author of "He's Just Not That Into You"-wanted to hear. 
"It is a painful holiday," says Tuccillo, whose humor­ous 2004 best seller coun­soled women in dead-end relationships. ''I'm looking up tho phone number of a store, and I have to be reminded that I'm single!" 
Lots of people hate Valentine's Day. Many are sin­gle. But oven people in com­mitted relationships can have a rotten time. 
For some, it's because their partner, out of carelessness, forgetfulness or something worse, doesn't come through with that romantic gift or thoughtfully planned date. Others might be going through a difficult momnnt in their relationship. Valentine's Day is like a huge magnifying glass hovering over all those warts and pimples. 
"Basically, no matter who you are, Valentine's Day will give you something to be stressed about," says 25-year­old receptionist Bennett Madison. It's kind of like the stress at Christmas, he explains, but worse: "It's got that added layer of romance. Just one more thing to make you feel inadequate." 
Madison has spent a lot of time thinking about this. In fact, he's written a book, too. woman Hoehelle Adams. Tho It's called "I IIate Valentine's boginning of tho ynar is Day." already busy with singles 


Madison says he wrote the ready to get back to thnir book because "all my friends lives aftor thn holidays. were complaining about Somntimns a usnr will mon­Valentine's Day. Even people tion Valentino's Day outright, who were really self-conf'i­saying "I hate to have another dent. It seemed like evnryone guy's night out on Valentino's was setting themselves up for Day," Adams says. Othnrs, she something impossible. It's like adds, "might not want to they were seeing that one day admit that they don't want to as a referendum on thnir spend Valnntino's Day alone." whole romantic life." For those who don't hook 
Barbara Feldman, who's up in time, thn goal is finding been married for a way to got 14 years, doesn't through mark Valentine's "Basically, no Valnntine's Day Day with her matter who you with the least husband, amount of psy­
are, Valentine's
Hichard. Yet the chic damage. day brings on Day will give you Madison, who feelings of guilt something to be sounds like he's and self-doubt. pondored this a
stressed about. " 
"Why am I not little too much, driven to pur­suggests a few chase gushing Bennett Madison strategies, in a 
cards and mean­author sort of deseend­
Attention 
JUNIORS 
who are interested in teaching English, researching or studying abroad for one year after graduation: 
Come to an information meeting on 


FULBRIGHTS 
Tuesday, February 14 at Spm in 120 DeBartolo or Wednesday, February 15 at noon 1n the Coleman Morse Hammes Lounge 


ingful gifts in honor of the romance in my marriage?" she asks. "Is there something fundamentally wrong with my marriage?" 
Shoshanna Hikon knows about Valentine's Day expec­tations. Her phones start ringing off the hook every year about three weeks before the big day. 
Hikon is a matchmaker, and her eager customers are sin­gles in Manhattan. looking for a match. This is crunch time for Rikon. Or, as she puts it, 
"This is my tax "/ might go out season." 
with my mom.
Most clients aren't blunt 

It'll make her enough to come happy." out and say they need a 
Liz Tuccillo 
date for Valentine's Day, author 
Hikon says. "But you know they're thinking about it. They see the decorations all over the place." 
Hikon says there am throe peaks to the matchmaking year. Just after New Year's, people want to act on those resolutions to find a soul mate. Then there's Valentine's Day. And then, in the spring, more male clients sign up. "I think it's the testosterone," she offers, rather mysterious­ly. "It's physical." 
Not surprisingly, February is a peak season for online dating, too. 
Some 5.5 to 6 million people visit the Yahoo Personals site every month, says spokes­
ing ordor of 
desperation. 

If you're attached, he says. discuss with your mate what you expect bnforohand. (Make sure she's not thinking French bistro, for example, if you're thinking Olive Garden.) 
If you're alone, try to rethink what the day moans to you. Hemembor this is an occasion to show any kind or love. It could be to your child, a platonic friond, even your pet. 
If that doesn't work and you 
just need a dato, then "just go got a damned date," he says. "It's not too hard. It does­n't have to be the person or your 
dn~ams." 
Finally, thn last­resort strategy: Wallow in it. Stay home. Wateh the world's saddest, 

most doprossing movies. Look at old photos or lovers you lost. llavn a tnrrible time. 
lluh'? 

"OK, I haven't nxaetly tried that," said Madison. "But I bet it would work. You've inoculated yoursnlf". The rest of the year will be MUCH bot­tor." 
Madison himself will bo dressing up this year with his partner and dining at a pizza joint. 
Feldman and her husband will be doing nothing special. 
And Tuccillo? 

"I might go out with my mom," she says. "It'll make her happy." 
If you cannot attend but would like information, please contact the Fellowships Office 105 O'Shag fellows@nd.edu 


-

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------, THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT

page 10 Monday, February 13, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Torino? ToriYES 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nom: Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gonumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROllER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoco@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du La<: and Saint Mary's 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q=tiom regarding Observer polims should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'The ~rver {USPS 599 2-4001)) is published Monday through f'tiday ~<::ept ducing .exam and vacation periods. A suW:"ription ro The Observer is: $100 for one acadtmic year. SSS for one semester. 
The Olm-rver is publiilied at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address cortecdons to: Nom: Dotme. IN 46556..0779 The Oboem:t Periodical pvstagc paid at Nottt" Da.mc 1'0. Bo< 779 .md additionil.l mailing oftke;,. 024 Muth Dining Hall 
Norte Dame, IN 'i6556~0779 
The Obsc:fVC'r is. .1 member of the Mociared Ptl!,\i. All rcproducthm rights are reserved. 
Unless you've been cooped up in your basement for the last few weeks engaged in an epic Dungeons & Dragons campaign, you no doubt know that the Winter Olympics have reared their frost-bitten and frozen soot­encrusted heads this week. The Olympics offer a great oppor­tunity for all the nations of the world to come together, forget their political headaches and remember how America is better than them in a vari­ety of athletic events. 
This year's games are being held in Torino, Italy, and those Italians started the festivities off with a banging opening ceremony on Friday. Opening ceremonies in recent Olympics have proven unsatisfying, as if lacking a certain something. Well, the Italians have figured out what that "something" is: flaming rollerbladers. Yes, you know your Olympic opening ceremony is off to a good start when a legion of blazing extreme athletes is an integral component. 
The ceremony also includes the tradi­tional parade of all the countries' ath­letes. It is a great time to drink in the spectacle and pageantry of these games. I would be lying if I told you I didn't get a little misty when Liechtenstein walked out to the tune of "Funkytown." This is what sport is all about. The American Olympic Team made their appearance sporting some berets that can only be described as "jaunty." 
Per usual, there are a few select ath­letes that the media latches onto like 

Peter Schroeder 
~ll Write for Food 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
some sort of latching device, and they become the poster boys and girls for the U.S. Olympic Effort. This year's notables include Bode Miller, Apollo Anton Ohno and Michelle Kwan's groin. Kwan, who backed into the games despite not qualifying, will not compete due to a nagging groin injury. No doubt countless American hearts are broken by this sad news, as Kwan will never be able to win that elusive gold medal. Furthermore, all those hearts will be female, as the men of America will be preoccupied with activities such as scratching, burping and not watching figure skating. 
Bode Miller has put a bad boy edge on these Olympics, as he has recently been embroiled in controversy stem­ming from talking about skiing while drunk. When asked to elaborate on that 60 Minutes interview, Miller said, "Raflghbk," and then vomited all over his skin-tight neon blue Spandex jump­suit. 
Of course, due to the immense nature of the Olympics, there is a lot to take in -almost too much in fact. There is round-the-clock coverage on NBC, CNBC, MSNBC, XYZNBC and NBCNBC, so it's easy to get overwhelmed. But do not worry, stop crying. You have just got to narrow down the field and only watch your favorites. It will be OK; we will get through this together. 
Maybe you are into the more graceful sports, in which case you might want to check out ice dancing. I am not exactly sure how that differs from figure skat­ing, but I am hoping that the key differ­ence is that crosschecking is allowed. Of course, I am probably wrong, and the difference is just more sequins. 
Or perhaps you like to take your cof­fee with two creams and danger. If you like living on the edge, you will want to see freestyle skiing. It is like regular moguls skiing, but it has been XTREME-icized by adding 360 degree jumps and flips throughout the course. It's the love child of Picabo Street and Tony Hawk, the XTHEME love child. 

What event am I looking forward to the most, you ask? Short track speed­skating. That is right, not long track, but short track speedskating. Apollo Anton Ohno's specialty, this is the event where four to six skaters compete by racing in circles around a track rough­ly the size of a half dollar. It's great because with so many skaters and so little room, there are plenty of opportu­nities for some good old fashioned bumping and pushing. It is like Holler Derby on ice. Many times races end in one giant folderol (thanks, English major!) when one skater falls, thereby taking out several members of the field in one swoop. This is why I like speed­skating; it teaches you valuable life les­sons. In the 1,500 meter Race of Life, sometimes you are gliding along, you can see the finish line racing towards you, and all of a sudden, some guy from South Korea comes out of nowhere and blindsides you. That's life. 
No matter what you choose to take in during this two week extravaganza of Spandex and chapped lips, be sure to remember the spirit behind the Games. These amateur athletes compete sim­ply for the purity of the sport. There are no entourages, agents or shoe deals at the Winter Olympics, just some guys heaving rocks and rubbing brooms at them. 
Peter Schroeder is a senior English major. As for plans after graduation, he is open to suggestions. He can be con­tacted at pschroed@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Freedom to choose? 
As the debate about Catholic charac­ter and identity continues on this cam­pus, I think that it is important to raise certain questions. 
The first point I have is the move­ment of "The Vagina Monologues" from a legitimate perfomance space to a lec­ture hall, limiting its capacity to serve as a philanthropic gesture. 
I ask the University to consider what messages are really being sent to stu­dents. Is this not a more pernicious kind of censorship, the relegation of "immoral" or "on-Catholic" events to a second or even third-class status on campus? Does it also resemble the tac­tics the Bush administration currently employs with protests, barring them from view of the greater public? If the answers to the above questions are yes, then the overall conclusion is academic freedom is in peril at Notre Dame. 
Now the obvious retort to the above response would be that Notre Dame, as a private, Catholic university, has a right to pick and choose which view­points it allows on campus. That would 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports OBSERVER POLL Nicole Zook Chris Khorey Kelly Meehan Ken Fowler Are you going to "The Vagina Laura Jack Thornton 
Monologues?"
Baumgartner Greg Arbogast Viewpoint Scene Margie Molly Griffin Rosmonowski 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Graphics 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com

Graham Ebetsch 
be fine and good if Notre Dame did not also receive federal money in the form of ROTC scholarships, student financial aid loans and other grants. 
The use of federal money by private universities raises a serious question: if you are in some part being funded by taxpayer money, how independent or separate from the "secular" can you claim yourself to be? If all of the money for my tuition, books and living expens­es came expressly from the University itself, I would be more inclined to capitulate to University President Father John Jenkins' position. However, it doesn't, and the same is the case for a significant number of stu­dents. 
In fact, one of the largest scholarship programs on this campus is ROTC. ROTC is a program that trains students to be military officers and ultimately, when the time comes, to participate in war. In the case of the Navy and other ROTC programs on campus, we have the University's tacit endorsement of war and its agents, even though our 
J ~·llUhmt•t,at1ett~ ~er 
i 




to the Editor at 
11 

www.ndsmcobservef.com
.,,_,::: 

military is currently in the midst of a war that Catholic officials have deemed unjust. Given these facts, it seems to me that more issues of academic free­dom and morality on this campus are to be determined by money than they are by "Catholic character." 
Lastly, I'd like to point out that the University theatre shows many films which are out of keeping with Catholic character, including "The 40-Year-Old­Virgin," a film that endorses, among other things, premarital sex and scato­logical sex acts. While I liked the film, I can't help but notice the double stan­dard it calls attention to: it's okay for discussions of male sexuality, even the need for men to have sex before mar­riage, but God forbid that women be given the same chance to do so. For those of you that shudder at the word "vagina," have no fear. The inquisition is already here. 
J. M. Hughes 
freshman Feb. 10 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Man is born to live and not to prepare to live." 
Boris Pasternak Russian writer 


THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT

Monday, February 13, 2006 page II 
LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Jenkins' thinking in line with Catholic teaching 
As an alumnus of Our Lady's Univorsity, formor Sports Editor of The Obs•~rver, and a Homan Catholic hus­band and father of three daughtors, I am writing in rnsponsn to Fathnr John Jenkins' invitation for comments on his addressns concerning Acadnmic Frn•~dom and Catholic Character. 
I am pleased by and gratnful for the position that Jenkins has taken regard­ing the Quncr Film Festival and "The Vagina Monologues." Neither of these events have any place at the University of Notre Dame or at any other Catholic educational institution. lndoed, I corre­spondnd with the previous administra­tion to nxpress this same view. 
The reason that such evnnts do not lwlong at Notre Damn is simple: those events aro contrary to tho fundamental reality that is tho basis of our Catholic faith. namely. the truth about human sexuality. · 
As ably explained in 2004 by Bishop ll'Arcy, "The Vagina Monologues" is "oll'l~nsivo to women; it is antithetical to Catholic tf'aehing on the lwautiful gift of human sexuality and also to tho tnach­ings of tlw church on tlw human body n~lalive to its purpose and to its status as a lfnnpln of the lloly Spirit. Tho human body and tho human pPrson, in the tra­dition of ttw church. must never be seen as an ohjnct." 
Concerning tlw Qtwnr Film Fnstival, it 1:annot bn ignored that thn past prnsnn­tt~rs havn indudnd dissident Catholics such as Sister Jean nino (;ramkk and Fatlwr Holmrt NugPnt, who worn per­sonally orderod by Pope .John Paul II to havn no pastoral contact wilh homosex­ual pPrsons because sw:h dissidonts 
wero promulgating "errors and ambigui­ties" concerning human sexuality. 
In that regard, as explained in the Catnchism of the Catholic Church (para. 2357): "Basing itself on Sacred Scripture, which presents homosexual acts as aets of grave depravity, tradition has always declared that 'homosexual acts are intrinsically disordered.' They arn contrary to the natural law. They closn the sexual act to the gift of life. They do not proceed from a genuine atl'eetivc and sexual complimcntarity. Under no circumstances can they be approved.'' 
Indeed, the Catechism refers to homo­sexual acts as "sins that cry to heaven," together with murder, the oppression of th•~ poor, widows or orphans and injus­tice to the wage earner (Catechism, para. 1S67). 
In mnsidering such statements, it. must be rnmembnr<HI that the Church teaches infallibly on matters of faith and morals. Beyond any dispute, the Church,s teach­ing on homosexual activity is a teaching about moral behavior, and hence infalli­bln. 
It is precisely the fundamental moral truths about homosexuality, which are, at best. obscured by the Queer Film Festival and "The Vagina Monologues." At worst, allowing such events to be held at thn University is to coopcrato in the eommission of sin. It is to "give risn to social situations and institutions that arn eontrary to the divine goodness," and to create the "structures of sin." At worse, it is a "social sin," which may lead por­sons to do evil (Catnehism, para. 1 S6S­1869). 
Indeed, the Chureh teaches that one cooperates in sins committed by others when we praise or approve their aets. or when we do not hinder them when we have an obligation to do so (Catechism, para. 1868). The presence of these events on the campus of Notre Dame obliges us as people of faith to oppose them. 
I am aware of the counterargument to this position, namely that the suspension of university support for thesn events violates the principles of academic free­dom, and I lind it completely without merit. 
Institutions of higher learning must indeed foster intellectual inquiry and the pursuit of knowledge, actions that nour­ish in a collaborative environment that supports the open exchange of ideas. In that regard, I must add that following my graduation from Notre Dame, I have earned both a Master's in Philosophy (University of Illinois, Urbana­Champaign, 19941 and a law degree (Case Western, 2000) and have complet­nd my coursework toward a Doctorate in Philosophy (Catholic University of America). I have taught numerous phi­losophy coursns as an adjunct profnssor, and I have a robust appreciation for aca­demic freedom, properly understood. 
In the contexts of classroom study and pnrsonal research, no scholar or student should be restricted, save by the bound­aries of his or her respnetive mind and inclination and aeademic discipline. I Iowever, the ultimate object of study is the understanding of the truth. A path of study that has been shown to be !'also docs not merit further pursuit. In this vein, neither the Queer Film Festival nor "The Vagina Monologues" meet these 

'Vagina Monologues' revisited 

I rm:nntly trind to nxplain to my 30­
ynar-old daughtnr about the hoopla at 
Notrn Damn owr "Thn Vagina 
Monologw~s.'' llPr response was. "It's so 
'SOs!" 
I thought about this for a whiln in light of the past wenks' twnnts and tri•~d to inHt!{inn thn rnaction of the thrm~ out­standing lmtdt~rs of the women's move­nwnt who clind rncnntly. Thn struggles of Con•tta Scott King (advocate for human and c:ivil rights). Wtmdy Wasserman (playwright and linninistl and Bntty Fri•~dan (the mother of the womon's movnrnent) for equality had such a vital inllucncn on all of our livns today. These pionnnriug womnn would probably have rmu:tnd to the eurrent discussion in the same way as my daughtnr. 
Women today take for granted the eoneessions that these heroic women fought for during the '60s and '70s: equal pay. nqual rights, child wclfarn. ndueation and entry into the men's world of business, medicine and the mil­itary. Most of all. they wanted women to havn ehoiees: choices about their bodies, their lives and their families. 
But although we have "come a long way, baby," why are we still questioning if we aro moving forward or going in reverse? Should we stand eontentcdly by and bneome passive, or should we continue to fight for our equal place at thn table as our role rnodnls bnli>re us did? 
Let's not be smug. A reality eheck would indieate the following: a male's median wage in a profnssional full time jobs is $5X,SOO; a woman's is $40,29S. Mon in full time serviee jobs earn $26,000 while women earn $19,000. As of 2004, Indiana ranked 2S in all states with people living below tho poverty linn, and 11.8 percent of those are womnn. Although women have made gains in wages, they arn still working longer hours for that gain. Disparity in wages among women dill'ers according to race, agn and education. Women will not rnceive parity in wages until 2050! 
These sobnring statistics are also a Inns li>r discussing the current contro­versy about acadomic freedom and the Catholic character of the University. Is tlw rnligious framework of our campus rPquirnd to turn a blind eye to the eco­nomic consequnnces of our decision about "The Vagina Monologues?" The elimination of a fundraising component means that the local non-protit organi­zations YWCA and SOS lose a signiticant amount of money. Why would the uni­versity object to an organization that provides services that embody the Catholic social teaching it is trying to impart to its students? 
At the YWCA, one sees the lessons of Catholic ideals in the smiling faces of the children who finally feel secure from abusive or addictive homes. They eat three meals a day, attend school regu­larly and have a quiet, safe shelter from the experiences they have had to cneounter so early in their lives. The Y provides a safety net so that these chil­dren might have a better chance in life. 
You see hope refieetcd in the eyes of the women who have sought refuge from angry, violent men and the sanctity of marriage. These women have taken the very courageous. difficult step out of relationships that are dangerous and harmful to their childron. They have turned away from addictive drugs and alcohol and are learning to walk forward on their own. These women arn learning new skills and new ways of living and being with their families and finding ways of increasing their self­esteem. In the process, they are finding some empowerment in their own lives. 
Coretta, Wendy and Betty would be applauding what the YWCA is doing for these women and children, 
and so should Notre Dame. They would nncourage us to support their efl'orts to empower women. They would also lind 
it ironic that our campus discourse is 
narrowed to a discussimi of women's "plumbing" after almost 50 years of their fight for the whole woman's oqual 
placo in the world. Is the question of sponsorship really an effort to control 
resources about and for women? 
Haven't we oarned the right to be able to talk openly and explore ideas within 
the contines of the university setting? 
At this university, we should be dis­cussing and focusing on the social and economic (in)justice issues that concern all of us: poverty. hunger, school nutri­tion, healthcare and available higher education and job training. We should not punish the women and children at the YWCA and the people who use the services at the SOS by depriving them of funding because of our fervor about whether or not "The Vagina Monologues" should be performed as part of the intellectual debate on cam­pus. Is that refleetive of the social teach­ings and values we want this community -faculty, staff and students -to embody? 
It's so '80s. Let's get over it! 
Becky Signer sraff Feb. 10 


criteria. Those evnnts do not take placn in the contoxt of classroom study or nvnn in an open exchange, as they present a one-sidod view of human beings. Furthermore, as demonstratod above, the view that they present is fundamen­tally 11awed; it stands in opposition to the truth. 
This issue is not a matter of censor­ship. Persons arc free to meet and to dis­cuss the issues raised in thn Queer Film Festival and "The Vagina Monologues." They arn frnc to. use their own private property to show such films or dramatie performances. Ilowever, as a Catholic institution, Notre Dame is obligatnd to uphold the truths of thn Church and the faith. It eannot condone tho pcrformanee of these events in its faeilities or on its property. 
Likewise, it is absurd to suggest that such events might bn t:ondorwd bncaus11 thny raise money for charity. As the Church unambiguously teaches, an evil means eannot be pursued to ad1ieve a good end. 
In closing, the Queer Film Fnstival and "The Vagina Monologuns" have no place at the University of Notre Dame or at any other Catholic educational institu­tion. They do not merit the sponsorship of Our Lady's University. 
And I am very, very glad to see that Jenkins is dealing with these issues in an entimly proper pastoral and administra­tive way in the light of faith and sound philosophy. 
David Dieteman alumnus Class of I 9')2 reb. ') 



Keenan Revue offensive 
Arter hearing a lot of extrmnely posi­tive buzz, I was excitnd to attend last Friday's Keenan Hevue. llowevor, I was appalled when I saw "Global Guts: Speeial Olympics Edition" listml as one of the aets in the program. The act mocked disabled individuals, going as far as to rofer to them at "tards.'' I real­ize the show is meant to be light-heart­ed and should not be taken seriously, but making fun of the handicapped is not at all funny under any eireum­stance. It is simply a display of incredi­bly poor taste. It is a travesty that this 
• University, which will not sponsor "The Vagina Monologues" or the Queer Film Festival, has no problem endorsing this kind of cruel humor. I am disgusted with those who wrote this act, horrified that the rector of Keenan IIall allowed it to be performed and truly saddened that there are students at Notre Dame who are ignorant or insensitive enough to find this funny. I sincerely hope Keenan Hall uses a little more tact when putting together next year's Hevue, but I detinitely will not be attending. 
Lauren Behr freshman Lyons Hall reb. 12 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE

page 12 
Monday, February 13, 2006 
THEATRE REVIEW 
Kick off your Sunday shoes 
PEMCo changes direction; performs upbeat, entertaining version of 'Footloose' 


Ren (Will McAuliffe), left, moves from Chicago to the small town of Bomont, where a dancing is banned. He explains his love of dancing to his classmates. 

The Bomont youth decide to rebel against the ban on dancing In "Footloose." The show is the ninth musical performed on campus by PEMCo since 1997. 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN Assistant Scene Editor 

It's a song, it's a movie, it's a ... musi­cal? 
The Pasquerilla East Musical Company (PEMCo.) performed "Footloose" on Thursday, Friday and Saturday night at Washington Hall. Based on the 1980s film starring Kevin Bacon, the musical entertained the crowd with strong performances and an upbeat sensibility. 
"Footloose" tells the story of Ren McCormack (Will McAuliffe), a Chicago native who is forced to move to the small town of Boman with his mother Ethel (Kathleen Sullivan) after his father leaves. Under the influence of the strict Reverend Shaw Moore (Joseph Garlock), the town has a num­ber of strict rules in place, including a ban on dancing within the city limits. Hen, along with the Reverend's rebel­lious daughter Ariel (Callie Hoffman) and the rest of his classmates, fights the rules to prove he is more than just the town troublemaker. 
"I wanted to do something really upbeat, funny and with lots of danc­ing," director Jenny Radelet said. "I was also drawn to the fact that it's fair­ly modern and has all those great songs from the '80s. Plus we thought since 'Footloose' was a pretty popular movie, the name would draw a big audience." · 
In an interesting twist on standard musicals, "Footloose" blends pop songs from the 1980s with original music. While the original compositions aren't as immediately recognizable as songs from more famous musicals, all of the songs are decently entertaining, Some, such as the rollicking "Mama Says (You Can't Back Down)" and ''I'm Free/Heaven Help Me" are better than others, but all of the songs are peppy and upbeat, much like the musical itself. 
The musical includes '80s pop songs including "Almost Paradise," "Let's Hear It For the Boy" and "Holding Out for a Hero." The musical does a good job of integrating the songs without feeling too forced. While these songs do make the musical a definite sing-along crowd-pleaser, they can make it seem a little bit cheesy and can be distracting at times because they are so recogniza­ble and the original songs are not. 
One of the best parts of "Footloose," much like the movie upon which it is based, is the dancing. 
"For a choreographer, 'Footloose' is a dream show," said senior Natalie Martinez, the show's choreographer. The show includes everything from Temptations-style diva numbers to country line dancing." 
Coupled with the generally upbeat music, the dance numbers were high­energy, athletic events. They ranged from the expected "Footloose" style of dancing to a great line dancing scene, and even included a dance set during gym class. 
The performers pulled off the clearly intense routines with apparent ease, and they were all well-choreographed in spite of the diverse range of styles. 
The dancing seemed different from what you get in most musicals, which was one of the definite strengths of the performance. 
"The music of Footloose doesn't lend itself to your typical musical theatre choreography," Martinez said. "It's the type of music you blare on the radio or dance to at a party. As the choreogra­pher, my goal was to keep the dancing spontaneous and fun while at the same time challenging and impressive." 
PEMCo's cast was definitely the most impressive part of the performance of "Footloose." The energy of the cast proved absolutely infectious, and every scene was clearly the result of a lot of practice and a deep love of performing. 
While the whole cast truly does a great job, there were some significant standouts in the performance. Will McAuliffe, as Ren, was a solid leading man with great dancing and singing 

skills, and he was complimented by Callie Hoffman's powerful voice and presence as Ariel. 
Joseph Garlock, who played the antagonistic Heverend Moore, was not only a convincing adult, but he brought emotional depth to the otherwise sim­ple story. 
Ariel's trio of friends, including Husty (Regan Harding). Urleen (Andrea Laidman) and Wendy Jo (Pam Williams), were terrific performers and provided some of the best comic moments in the musical. 
Jack Calcutt played the hilarious over-the-top country character of Willard Hewitt and provided some of the night's biggest laughs. 
"There's a moment during the first refrain of "Let's Hear It For the Boy" when Jack gets this goofy, amazing smile on his face after feeling the rhythm for the first time," Radelet said. "Every single time it happens, I die laughing and just thank God for musi­cal theatre." 
Overall, PEMCo. put on a fantastic show with what is an entertaining, albeit somewhat cheesy, musical. The energy of the show, the great singing and dancing and the exuberance of the cast made it a performance worth watching. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
BALLONffhe Observer SOFIA BALLONffhe Observer Willard (Jack Calcutt), left, shares some advice that his mother gave him with his friends during the musical number "Mama Says (You Can't Back Down)." 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE

Monday, February 13, 2006 
page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Cachorro' explores love, family 

By TAE ANDREWS 
Sct·ne Writer 
When his rnothnr goes on vacation in India, young Bnrnardo (David Castillo) is loft in the earn of' his unele Pedro (.losP l.uis Garcia-Pnrez), an openly gay dentist and aetivn urbanitn. 
But after Bernardo's mother Violeta (lo:lvira !.indo) is detained indefinitely for smuggling drugs, Pedro finds him­snit' in a more permanent stewardship of' his rwphew, cre­ating a "()ueer Eye This dearly lends support to the theo­ry ol' homosexuality as being the prod­uct of gonotic heritage, and not of upbringing. Despite Violeta's wish to havn a gay son, Pedro makes it abun­dantly clear to his gay friends that he does not want Bernardo being inrlu­lmeed into maintaining a homosexual lif'ostyle. 
Interestingly enough, however, at the film's conclusion there is signifieant reason to believe that Bernardo is gay, leading the viewer to wonder whether he was truly gay by birth or 

for the Little Guy" changed as a
Cachorro

living situation. 
result of living 
Despite Pedro's with this unele. status as a gay Pedro's homo­bachelor accus­sexuality is explic­tomed to the single itly made r.lear
Director: Miguel Albaladejo 

lil'n, hn is able to throughout the
Writers: Miguel Albaladejo and

rnakn the transition film; like the pop
Salvador Garcia Ruiz 

into a rnsponsible duo Hight Said
Starring: Jose Luis Garcia-Perez, 

guardian for young Fred, he is defi­
David Castillo and Empar Ferrer

Bnrnardo, who, l'or his part, is mature hnyond his years. The two bneonw vnry dose, but their relationship comes into jeopardy when Bernardo's grandmother, Dona Teresa (Empar Ferrer), tries to intervene and havn Bernardo separated !'rom Pedro on grounds that a homosexual is inca­pable of' caring !'or a child. 
Direelor Miguel Albaladejo makes S(l!lle very pointnd statements about homosexuality in "Caehorro." The por­trayal ol' Pedro and his gay friends both ehalleng(~S and redefines conven­tional notions ol' what it is to be gay. Pedro and Co. are big, hurly men with expansive 
w a i s tl i n (~ s a 11 d body h a i r In spite of In spite of the exees­galore. This "Bear Clan," excessive sex sive sox seenes, d (~ s pi t e t lu~ i r exterior "Caehorro" is a good
scenes, "Cachorro" 

appmtranep or "man's man" talc of the relationship masculinity, remains obvi­is a good tale (~{ between a man and his ously gay. the relationship nephew. Despite the llowever. this is exaetly many issues and eom­
between a man

what Alhaladejo wants -plications brought on by
and his nephew. 

to nsdww tlw sternotypieal Pedro's homosexuality 
nitely too sexy for his shirt, as he finds himsell' 
removing it often during his many liaisons with random gay men. The H rating "Cachorro" received is earned during the film's opening sequence, which is explicit to the point or pornography in chronicling a tryst betwnen two of Pedro's gay friends. 
While director Miguel Albaladejo's "shock and awe" tacties are clearly aimed at furthering gay visibility in soeinty, his use of exceedingly graphic sex scenes is one of the film's major 
f'laws  -tlwre is entirely too  much  
penis  seen  in  this  
movie.  


association ol' gay men as lw in g thin, overly efTem i­nate drama kings. Caehorro unahaslwdly shows homosexual men as being both gay and masculine ­and dan~s the view(~r to think other­wise. 
"Carhorro" also explores tho nature versus nurturn debate in terms ol' dis­wvering what (~xaetly dntermines sex­ual orientation. At one point in the film. Bernardo asks Pedro when he first realized he was gay, and Pedro rnsponds by saying that, when hn was at thn bnaeh as a teenager, he imag­irwd men naked instead or women. 
throughout the l'ilm. at the end or the day, he is a good undo and loving guardian to Bornardo, regardless of his sexuality. 
Spoken entirely in Spanish, the movie offers subtitles to those who eannot 'habla ospanol.' Tho English translation of 'Cachorro' is "Bear Cub." 
A heartwarming tale of family and aeeeptanee, "Cachorro" is definitely worth eoming out of tho bear cave ­or closet -to eheck out. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1 @nd.edu 

NOTRE DAME'S BEST... ~~~~ 
BY OBSERVER PHOTO STAFF 
A snowflake dtifts Juily down.. The wind rusdes ~ branches. 

-
A duck dabbles~ She rests her head on his shoulder. The wodd is good. 
..'Whdha.-you\~: alirt.quietdrink with yourlooglimc soulmm;, 
oramD•••caight at the dub~ all than ·~you 
....isthe slim hope of IIMXIing ~new_l...qp1ds is 
,.,..oa-ampuspodof c:aJl. 

Itt~ azdie......., bt.twuti two wodds-50 ifwe st..lJ hlcft &aa::wa;.wiiiiB time jawshil!ld still? 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, February 13, 2006 
NBA 

Wade, O'Neal carry Miami to first win over rival Detroit 
San Antonio relies on fourth-quarter effort from Ginobli to overcome Indiana, improve road trip record to 6-0 
Associated Press shots and scored 28 points in  seconds left made the score 98­ 
the second half.  all, Detroit missed twice, and  
MIAMI -Dwyane Wade led "Dwyane took the game over," the comeback and then the cel­Detroit coach Flip Saunders  the Heat regained possession with 25 seconds to go.  
ebration, skipping along the said. "He got a lot of shots up, sideline and high-fiving jubilant and we couldn't get any help fans. over."  San Antonio 92 Indianapolis 88  
The Miami Heat finally Shaquille O'Neal kept the showed they can beat the elite, Heat in the game early and fm­especially when they have Wade ished with a season-high 31 as a weapon. He scored the points. Heat's last 17 points, including "It was a big win," O'Neal the game-winner on a 16-footer said. "We could have let it slip with 2.3 seconds left, and they away, but we kept on fighting. edged the Detroit Pistons 100­Now we have to develop some 98 Sunday. type of consistency. Anybody  Even though Tim Duncan and Tony Parker are their All-Stars, the San Antonio Spurs needed Manu Ginobili to beat_ the Indiana Pacers. Ginobili scored 10 of his 29 points in the final 1:28 as the Spurs beat the Pacers on Sunday for their league-best  
Touted before the season as can win one game. We have to  ninth straight win.  
title contenders, the Heat do that night in and night out."  Duncan and Parker shot a  
improved to 1-7 against the Chauncey Billups had 29  combined 10-for-30 from the  
NBA's four top teams. But they points and 10 assists for the needed a frantic rally to do it. Pistons. They've lost three of Miami trailed 90-83 with 4 their past five games but still  field, but Ginobili reminded a national television audience why he was an All-Star last  
1/2 minutes left when Wade have the NBA's best record at took over. His 17 consecutive 41-9.  year by shooting 7 -of-12 from the field and 11-of-12 from the  
points were a franchise record, "The Heat might look at this and he finished with 37. as being bigger than it really  free throw line. Ginobili said he knew some­ 
"It was a lot of fun," he said. is," Billups said. "It's just anoth­ one had to pick it up for the  
"It was time for me. I had to er win. But they have struggled  Spurs. Duncan is still recover­ 
come through and help this against teams with better team win. I put it on my shoul­records, so beating the team  ing from the flu and Parker's shot was off.  
ders at the end to make some with the No. 1 record is a big  "We know that Tim is not at  
plays." win for them."  his best," Ginobili said. "He's  
- Wade sank his final seven After Wade's basket with 55  still sick, weak. He's been play­AP ing with pain in his foot for a lot Heat center Shaquille O'Neal, left, backs down Pistons center  
of games. We've got to step up Ben Wallace during Miami's 100-98 victory Sunday.  
and take some pressure off him.  
We did pretty well."  games like this in the last three  home winning streak snapped  
Stephen Jackson led the  weeks where they've been  by San Antonio on Friday  
Pacers with 17 points and Peja  around but haven't finished the  night.  
Stojakovic added 16.  games off," coach Mike Fratello  The game was played in front  
Duncan had 10 points and 11  said. "Just when it looked like it  of approximately 5,000 fans,  
rebounds, despite being held to  was slipping away again  who braved a record storm  
4-for-15 shooting. Parker had  tonight, they dug down."  that dropped 2 feet of snow in  
17 points and six assists and  Former Lakers guard Chucky  the New Jersey area.  
Bruce Bowen had 16 points and  Atkins had 18 points, including  Starting center Nenad Krstic  
eight rebounds.  a tiebreaking free throw with 3  was ejected for a scuffle with  
The Spurs improved to 6-0 on  seconds left, as the Grizzlies  Milwaukee's Jamaal Magloire  
their eight-game road trip that  ended a season-worst five-game  just before halftime, but the  
ends Wednesday at Philadel­ losing streak and a six-game  Nets got 16 points off the  
phia. They also snapped the  road skid. Memphis has won  bench from 39-year-old  
Pacers' four-game winning  three of its last four games  Clifford Robinson and 1 0 from  
streak.  against the Lakers in Los  fellow reserve Scott Padgett.  
Angeles, after losing the first  Michael Redd paced  
Memphis 100, Los Angeles 99  18.  Milwaukee (26-24) with 27  
Pau Gasol's low-post domi­ Bryant scored 12 of his 26  points, while T.J. Ford added  
nance and a determined start­ points in the fourth quarter and  18.  
ing backcourt of ex-Los Angeles  Smush Parker added 20 for the  The Nets grabbed the lead in  
Lakers were enough to help the  Lakers. Bryant, who came in  the first quarter and never  
Memphis Grizzlies escape  averaging a league-leading 35.4  looked back, avenging a 110­ 
Staples Center with a one-point  points, missed 12 of his first 17  96 loss to the Bucks at home  
win for the second time this  shots and finished 10-for-28  on opening night Nov. 2. The  
season.  from the field.  Bears appeared somewhat  
Gasol scored four of his 31  lackluster after traveling to  
points in the final 53 seconds,  New Jersey 94, Milwaukee 79  New Jersey in the snow after  
Eddie Jones had 25 points  Vince Carter scored 24 points  beating Charlotte 99-93 in  
against his former team, and  and Jason Kidd added 16, lead­ Milwaukee on Saturday night  
the Grizzlies kept Kobe Bryant  ing the New Jersey Nets over  and arriving in the early morn­ 
in check en route to a victory  the Milwaukee Bucks Sunday  ing hours Sunday.  
AP San Antonio forward Manu Ginobili, left, shoots over Indiana forward Peja Stojakovic during ·the third quarter of the Spurs' 92-88 victory In Indianapolis.  over the Lakers on Saturday night. ''I'm ecstatic for the guys because they've had so many  night. The win was the 13th in 14 home games for New Jersey (27 -22), which had a 12-game  The loss was the Bucks' first this season against an Atlantic Division team. They had won the previous nine games.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

Area houses and apartments for 1 bdrm.effic. 1/2 mi.N.of campus. Clinic . 2 years medical experience · Spring Break 2006 with Student Sometimes I wonder rent Log onto Quiet,separate units preferred . Experience in Travel Services to Jamaica, Mexico, If you're still hereNOTICES MichianaRentals.com. $500 mo. incl. utilities. Cardiology an asset Bahamas and Florida. Do not get Lookin' out for anything that could Caii574-993-RENT (7368) Roseland Terrace Cottages 2. Physician with interest in cardiol-left behind! fall and hit your head 
WANTED: NOTREDAME STU· @ 11 0 W. Willow. 220-1682. ogy to work in regional Cardiac Book now, limited space available. Fluorescent lights bum out in time DENT MODELS CO-ED, the No. 1 123 NDAve. 3-bdrm,1.5 bath .. Clinics. Call for group discounts. dear college magazine, is looking for the Call574-229-0149. 06-07/3BR2BA/2AttGar/ AIIAppl Please send CVs by Info/Reservations We see the world in a different light 
next big thing! You have a shot at 1 mileN/built2000/.5acre $1200mo/ e-mail to thesparmanclinic@hot-800-648-4849 Did you give up? Love is supposed $5,000 and will be in the pages of COLLEGE PARK CONDOM INI-GradOnly/RENTND@ aol.com mail. com www.ststravel.com to be this bad, make you cry mega CO-ED! Send pies to UMS AVAILABLE FOR 06-07 Or by fax to 246-436-5842 ultra sad.ll I told you you're all I Kristyna@coedmagazine.com For SCHOOL YEAR. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? ever had Would you walk on me? more info, visitCOEDmagazine.com TWO BEDROOM, WANTED Do not go it alone.lf you or some-Because I wouldn't walk on you or call201-420-3300. TWO BATHS. HURRY. PERSONAL one you love needs confidential If I was in your shoes 
235-7234 FOR MORE DETAIL VACANCY 1. Secretary for Cardiac support or assistance, I wouldn't walk all over you Civil Engineer-We are seeking May Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! please call Sr. ML Gude, CSC, So please don't walk all over meFoR RENT 3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. 2006 grads w/a BS in Civil 5 Days from $299! Includes Meals, at 1-7819. If I was in your shoes 
Web site:mmmrentals.com Engineering. MTV Celebrity Parties! For more information, see our bi-I wouldn't walk all over you WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED-Contact:Gary 574-993-2208 Job functions consist of land devel-Cancun, Acapulco, weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. So please don't walk all over me ROOM HOMES or grooms@ourwebspotnet opment engineering for Site/Civil Jamaica from $499! Right now I feel like its all ending MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 firm in Indiana and Florida. Campus Reps Needed! Wait for important news in this sec-spit me out sell me cheap 
Large 4-5 bedroom house. 2 full Please send all resumes and PromoCode:31 lion. Seriously, it's coming later this You'll never ever ever ever ever Stop overpaying for rent baths. Close tu ND. $1100/mo. 650-questions to www.springbreaktravel.com February ... you all must be patient teach me to fly Visit BlueGoldrentals.com 851-3361.1macswain@comcastnet mhoward@ rw-engineering.com 1-800-678-6386. now. -"Walk on Me" ... Ben Kweller 



OUND THE NATION 
Monday, February 13, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
Men's College Basketball AP Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  Connecticut  20-1  761  
2  Duke  21-1  749  
3  Memphis  21-2  709  
4  Villanova  17-2  677  
5  Gonzaga  18-3  630  
6  Florida  20-2  612  
7  Texas  19-3  606  
8  George Washington  18-1  505  
9  Illinois  20-3  486  
10  West Virginia  17-4  482  
11  Michigan State  17-5  429  
12  UCLA  19-4  410  
13  Pittsburgh  17-3  384  
14  Tennessee  16-3  380  
15  NC State  18-4  339  
16  Georgetown  16-4  306  
17  Ohio State  16-3  303  
18  Boston College  17-5  271  
19  Iowa  18-5  192  
20  Oklahoma  14-5  175  
21  Indiana  13-6  110  
22  Michigan  16-4  98  
23  Washington  16-5  93  
24  North Carolina  14-5  81  
25  Colorado  15-4  45  

Women's College Basketball AP Top 25 
team record points 

1 North Carolina 22-0 774 2 Duke 20-1 744 3 Connecticut 21-2 701 4 LSU 20-1 685 5 Tennessee 21-2 652 6 Maryland 21-2 623 7 Ohio State 18-2 588 8 Rutgers 17-3 528 9 Purdue 18-3 506 10 Minnesota 17-4 465 11 Baylor 16-4 453 12 Oklahoma 19-4 446 13 Georgia 17-5 413 14 Stanford 16-5 355 15 DePaul 18-5 323 16 Michigan State 17-7 300 17 Arizona State 18-5 293 18 BYU 19-1 282 19 Temple 17-5 204 20 New Mexico 16-6 152 20 Vanderbilt 16-7 152 22 Boston College 17-6 122 23 Louisiana Tech 16-4 82 24 St. Johns's 18-4 60 25 TexasA&M 17-5 21 
Women's Tennis Top 25 

tP.am team 
1 Stanford 14 Arizona State 2 Florida 15 Texas 3 Georgia Tech 16 TCU 4 Northwestern 17 Clemson 5 usc 18 California 6 Georgia 19 Harvard 7 Vanderbilt 20 William and Mary 8 Baylor 21 Tennessee 9 Miami (FL) 22 BYU 10 North Carolina 23 NOTRE DAME 11 UCLA 24 South Carolina 12 Kentucky 25 Wake Forest 13 Duke 
around the dial 
WINTER OLYMPICS 8 p.m., NBC 

MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Connecticut at Villanova 7 p.m., ESPN Kansas at Oklahoma State 9 p.m., ESPN 
WINTER OLYMPICS 


Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Faced with the loss of its biggest Winter Olympics star only two days into the Turin Games, NBC tried to keep Michelle Kwan -in the broadcast booth. 
Kwan turned down the job offer, saying she didn't want to be a distraction for remaining members of the U.S. Olympic figure skating team, NBC Sports spokesman Michael McCarley said Sunday. 
The star withdrew from the Olympics on Sunday because of a strained groin muscle, ending her quest for her first gold medal in what was expected to be one of the most compelling stories in Turin. 
NBC Sports had first contacted Kwan's agent in January, when it had appeared unlikely that she would be competing, McCarley said. NBC Universal Sports Chairman Dick Ebersol made Sunday's offer only an hour after her news conference, when she had come to NBC's studios to be interviewed by Bob Costas. 
Women's figure skating traditionally is the most-
IN BRIEF 
Roddick sends U.S. into 
Davis Cup quarterfinals 
SAN DIEGO -Andy Hoddick beat Homania's Hazvan Sabau in straight sets Sunday to send the United States into the Davis Cup quarterfi­nals. 
The victory gave the Americans an insurmountable 3-1 lead in the best-of-five opening round, then James Blake made the !'ina I 4-1 with his closing singles victory. 
Blake and the doubles team of Mike and Bob Bryan provided the first two U.S. victories, then Blake capped the round with a 6-1, 7-5 win over Horia Tecau in what essentially was an exhibition match shortened to two sets. 
The United States advanced to play Chile, which beat Slovakia in the first round. 
Hoddick, who lost a big early lead and the match after becoming nau­seated in Friday's opening singles against Andrei Pavel, defeated Sabau 6-3, 6-3, 6-2. 

watched Winter Olympics event, and Kwan is its biggest star. More women than men usually watch the Winter Games, and that's due largely to fig­ure skating. 
"It's like a lead actor leaving a series," said Marc Berman, television analyst for Media Week Online. "It's not positive." 
NBC broke into its overnight rebroadcast of its prime-time coverage at 4:20a.m. EST to report Kwan's withdrawal. 
"She's probably the most significant athlete at these Olympic Games," said skating analyst Scott 
.. 
-... 
Hamilton. "And so for her to pull out is a gigantic story, and a loss for the 
U.S. team because so 
much of the focus  was  
going to be on her."  
Even  if  Kwan  had  

stayed, national champion Sasha Cohen was likely to be the U.S. team's best hope for a gold medal in f'igure skating, McCarley said. Viewers tune in because of the Olympic experience, not necessari­ly becausn of athlntns they knew beforehand. 
"Stars nmerge during the games themselves not before," McCarley said. 
Oberholser wins Pebble 
Beach National Pro-Am 
PEBBLE BEACH, Calif. -Arron Oberholser was shaky down the stretch Sunday until a big break turned into an unlikely birdie, allow­ing him to coast the final three holes Sunday and win the Pebble Beach National Pro-Am. 
Oberholser enjoyed a proud, peace­ful walk up the 18th fairway on his way to an even-par 72 and a five-shot victory, matching the largest margin in the 77 -year history of the tourna­ment. Sweeter still was capturing his first PGA Tour event on a course he has played countless times since he was a kid. 
The 31-year-old Oberholser grew up in San Mateo and played college golf at San Jose State, and there were cheers of "Go Spartans" throughout a final round of warmth and sunshine on the Monterey Peninsula. 
Oberholser finished at 17-under 271, five shots ahead of' Hory Sabbatini. 

Hamlin wins exhibition 
NASCAR race 
DAYI'ONA BEACH, Fla. -I.ook out Tony Stewart, your nnw rookin team­mate has a lot of musdn he's ready to flex this season. 
Denny llamlin shocked NASCAH on Sunday by beating Stewart and the rest of the big shots to steal a win in the exhibition Budwniser Shootout at Daytona International Spnedway. 
!Iamlin led 16 of the 70-laps and was heading toward an easy win when Stewart, his veteran teammatn at Joe Gibbs Hacing, used a wid1~ pass to take the lead away from him with four laps to go. But seeonds after Stewart moved to the front, the caution flag came out for debris on the track, setting up a two-lap shootout to the finish. 
Stewart restartnd on the bottom of the track, with Hamlin right next to him when racing resumed. Hamlin quiekly moved out front, then held on· challenges from Stewart and Dale Earnhardt Jr. to win for the lirst time in NASCAH's top series. 
Monday, February 13, 2006
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA BASKETBALL 



Loss at Pitt drops Cincinnati below .500 in Big East play 
Pittsnogle rebounds from slump, puts up 25 points to lead No.9 West Virginia past No. 16 Georgetown on the road 
Associated Press 1), who shot 62 percent in the by Rutgers in a Big East game 
second half to move into a first­since a 97-87 victory over 
PITTSBURGH -Cincinnati place tie with Connecticut and Villanova on Jan. 9, 1999. has won either the regular sea­Villanova. Anthony Farmer added 14 son or conference tournament Thousands of West Virginia points and six assists despite championship in the first sea­fans, whose numbers rivaled playing with a bruised right son the last five times it joined a those of the home team at the shoulder, while Jimmie Inglis new league. That run will likely MCI Center, chanted came off the bench with 10 end this year. "Overrated" in the game's final points for the Scarlet Knights, 
Carl Krauser had 18 points minute. Georgetown led by as who played without head coach and reserve Keith Benjamin many as 11 in the first half but Gary Waters. scored a career-high 16 as No. scored only 19 points in the sec­Waters was inducted into 14 Pittsburgh beat Cincinnati ond half, with Jefl' Green scor­Kent State's Hall of Fame on 89-69 in the first Big East meet­ing 14 to finish with 21. Saturday and couldn't get a ing between the schools. Seven­return flight due to the massive foot center Aaron Gray added Syracuse 75, St. John's 60 snowstorm that hit New Jersey 15 points and 10 rebounds for Gerry McNamara left the this weekend. Fred Hill Jr. his Big East-leading 13th dou­game on good terms this time. coached Rutgers in Waters' ble-double of the season. Limited in his last two outings absence and led the Scarlet 
The Bearcats (16-9, 5-6) got a because of injuries, McNamara Knights to their second win in game-high 21 points from Jihad had 23 points and eight assists the last eight games. Muhammad and 15 from for­Sunday in Syracuse's victory A three-point play by Bailey ward Eric Hicks, but little else over St. John's as the Orange with 7:50 remaining gave as the Panthers (19-3, 8-3) regrouped after losing five of Rutgers a 68-65 lead and ignit­never trailed and won their their previous six games. ed a 15-7 run. 15th straight at home. The 6-foot-2 senior guard Marquette (16-8, 6-5) rallied 
"They dominated us in every started his 124th consecutive to within 81-77 before Douby area," Cincinnati coach Andy game, the longest active streak drained a 3-pointer with 2:09 Kennedy said. "I thought today in the country, but unlike the remaining. Douby, the Big we were on our heels the whole last two games he didn't leave East's leading scorer, went over game fighting uphill." this one until the Orange (17 -7, 30 points for the third time this 
Muhammad, a 5-11 senior 5-5 Big East) had it well in season. guard who became a starter hand. just five games ago, has aver­"I felt a little better," Minnesota 69 aged 17.3 points the last three, McNamara said in the locker Michigan State 55 shooting 12-for-24 on 3-point­room with a huge bag of ice Minnesota used a better, ers. However, he struggled early taped to his right leg. "It's been stronger effort to upset No. 12 as Pitt jumped out to a 19-7 frustrating but it feels so good Michigan State. lead, with Hicks accounting for to get a win and get back on And for Spartans coach Tom all of Cincinnati's points. track. We have stayed positive lzzo, the blame fell on him. 

and that's so important to stay Vince Grier had 15 points and lead. He hit a short jumper points. West Virginia 69 positive." eight rebounds Saturday, lead­before the shot clock expired The Wolfpack had a chance Georgetown 56 McNamara, who helped the ing the energized Gophers to a to push the lead to 71-65 with to tie in the final seconds. 
Kevin Pittsnogle followed a Orange to the national champi­victory, their first over Michigan 1:03 left. After Bennerman missed a 3­scoreless game with 25 points, onship as a freshman, injured State in six tries since January A 3-pointer by the point try, the clock expired and No. 9 West Virginia his thigh in the win over 2003. Wolfpack's Cameron with Gavin Grant looking for a rebounded from its only Big Rutgers and was limited to 15 "I've been a little soft in prac­Bennerman with 50 seconds teammate beyond the 3-point East loss with a victory over No. minutes and two points. He tice lately, because I've been left cut the lead to three line. 
American Corporate Society 
"A Multi-Professional Corporation" 
• 
Credit Repair • Deportations Cases 

• 
Disability/Social • Mortgages/Loans 

Security • Housing Grants 

• 
Real Estate • Financial Services 

• 
Expungements • Unsecured Cash 

• 
Immigrations Advance 


Phone: (Soo) SI0-6140 www .AmericanCorporateSociety. US www.ACSMortgageFunding.com 
Learn How to Market to Generations X & Y 
Join us as Joseph Sullivan, President ofFor Marketing 
Insights, Inc., discusses Marketing to Generations X & Y. You 'I/ learn about the delivery preferences and values ofthese generations, as well as the importance ofmarketing strategies that focus on them. 
WHEN: Thursday • February 16, 2006 • 11:30a-2:30p WHERE: Windsor Park Conference Center • Mishawaka 
For reservations, contact Brian Nordan at 574-277-2220 or bnordan@pfdent.com. 
BJtou.ght to qou. bq The Michiana Chapter of the American Marketing Association www.michianaama.com 

15 Georgetown on Sunday injured his Achilles' tendon in paranoid about this three 
night. the loss to Connecticut and games in six days," said Izzo, Shut out in the Mountaineers' played only 24 minutes and had whose team had won six of its 57-53 loss Thursday at seven points previous seven. Pittsburgh, Pittsnogle made 10 The Spartans (18-6, 6-4 Big of 15 shots and scored six of the Rutgers 91, Marquette 84 Ten), though, were just as quick first eight points in a 15-5 Quincy Douby scored 32 to credit Minnesota for the out­game-ending run as West points and Ollie Bailey con­come. Virginia snapped Georgetown's tributed 12 points and seven Zach Puchtel scored 13 seven-game winning streak. rebounds as Rutgers snapped a points, J'son Stamper added 12 Mike Gansey and Johannes three-game losing streak with a and Adam Boone and Moe 
Herber added 13 points apiece win over Marquette on Sunday. Hargrow each had 10 for the 
for the Mountaineers (18-5, 9-The 91 points were the most Gophers (12-9, 3-7), who have won three of four since shuf­fling their lineup. 
Ohio State 69, Illinois 53 
There was no postgame party after beating Illinois this time. Ohio State still has other big games to play. 
Jamar Butler scored 22 points, Terence Dials had 19 and 16 rebounds and Je'Kel Foster added 18 points to lead the 19th-ranked Buckeyes to a victory over No. 10 Illinois on Sunday. 
A year after ruining top­ranked Illinois' perfect, 29-0 season on Matt Sylvester's 3­pointer with 5.1 seconds left, the Buckeyes relied on their outside shooting and Dials'muscle inside to win their fourth straight game and remain in a virtual tie for first place in the Big Ten. 
Georgia Tech 71 North Carolina State 68 
Reserve Zam Fredrick wants his starting job back. 
Fredrick scored a career­high 22 points as Georgia Tech upset No. 16 North Carolina State Sunday to end an eight­
AP game losing streak, its longest Panthers guard Ronald Roman (4) keeps the ball away from in 25 years. Cincinnati guard Devan Downey during Pittsburgh's 89-69 win Frederick's 3-pointer with Sunday. 3:22 left gave Tech a 67-62 


Monday, February 13, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
WINTER OLYMPICS 

Oh, No! Apolo Anton trips, misses 1,500 finals 
American denied shot at rematch with Ahn, has three events left 
TUHIN. Italy -Apolo Anton Ohno loaned into tlw turn as lw's donn so many times before, tlw !{oldnn hladns earrying him nasily along the milky ice at spnnds approac:hing 30 mph. 
Suddenly. lw felt that razor­thin ed!{n slipping away. 
Ills skates quivnrPd. Ills logs wohhiPd. Ills lnf't hand s1:rapnd tho ice in a dospnratn attempt to stay up. 
Ohno didn't go down, but it didn't matter. Tlwn~ would lw no Olympic gold modal l'or the soul-patdwd Anwrkan on the lirst night ol' short tnu~k. 
Tho South Koreans celebratnd a 1-2 payback for 2002, wlwn a gold nwdal was taknn away from orw ol' thnir own and givPn to Ohno inst11ad. On Sunday, Ahn llyun-soo won the 1,500 mntnrs, whiln teammate f.pe llo-suk claimed the silver. 
Ohno wasn't around to do anything about it. falling out af'ter almost falling down in the semifinals. 
"I put a lot of dedication and timn into this sport. To not even make that linal and be able to ehallnngn thosn top skaters, it hurts," hn said. 
Ohno stumbled with 1 1/2 laps to go in his smnifinal heat and wound up last across the line among those still skating, hunched over with his hands on his knnes. Ills split-second mis­take ruin~d any chance of dnl'ending his Olympic title in a much-anticipated showdown against Aim and Leo. 
"I was a bit disappointed I couldn't race against Ohno," Ahn said. "But thern are lots of other talented athletes and I did what I had to do." 
China's l.i Jia.Jun won the bronzn. 
"It really brnaks my heart to watch that," said Allison Baver, Ohno's tnammate and girl­friend. "I know he's the best skater in the world and he real­ly didn't have a chance to show that. But the Olympics aren't over." 
Indeed, Ohno still has three events left to match or beat the gold and silver medals he won in Salt Lake City. As they say in this wacky sport, "That's short track." 
Consider what happened in 2002: Ohno crossed the line second in the 1,500 final but won gold when another Korean skater, Kim Dong-sung, was dis­qualified f'or blocking the Amnriean on the last lap. The ruling thrillfld U.S. fans but out­raged South Koreans. 
flow diiTernnt it was this time. 
Ohno e~sily won his first heat 
'·-~~~-d~ 

Texas Hold'em 
A~t POKERTOURNAMENT SATURDA~ FEBRUARY 18, 2006 

Doors Open at 2pm 
Limited Re-Buys Available Game Begins at 4pm 
ATM, Food & Beverages
(South Bend Time) $100.00 entry fee includes $25 registration 
'?vwt fOt<:tee PRIZE POOL IS 10% OF THE FIELD TOTALLING 
$22,500



I 0,000 
Register early at: www.fop36.com 
1st Place Prize and Prize Pool based on 300 participants prizes will be adjusted for fewer participants 
Great Job Opportunities!! 
1//rlng &IWOJtll P•tt-Timo NOW ond F11/~Ttr11o Duri"!!SIImmer & .S111ds 
ELe_xible ~ & G~I;AT EAY)l We offer 1 0-40+ hours/week 
Route Delivery 
$9.00 -$12.00/ Hour 


574-234-5309 
Located, Just Minutes from Campus 
Wa Also HilVII Facilities in Other C!tlas, Call Us! aou;ngcrock 1-tl:c-.3<10.0152 NOI\I!Wtbl51ur 1-3110.822~500 F1 WU"p>a 1-all0·6Z2·G656 Marion 1~~2~9r.4 Bonlon Hllrbor 1-l!C~!il'-4~23 Soul> Q<>nd HlCD-457-H23 Ot""'n P-*'11-IC0-457-4~23 Spnngr.tk11-8C1Hil2-4Si4 
No Exp&r/once Nlic&ssary Tr.lil\111 0110 ~ awit•gxllocialld11.:11kin Nl9l".!! du!ing '""'""•' ;,.~k W. alftr .!ir-i'•dult l"'r~lb/fr Sllztt lnltr.lr!Q ~. 
Schedule an Interview A.S.A.P. Bring a Friend I 

www.homecitvi ce.com 
and senmed likely to make it through to the final when, with three turns to go, he tucked in 
• behind the race leader, China's Li Ye. But Ohno got a little too close to the other skater, his left shoulder appearing to touch Li's right hip as they leaned into the corner. 
"I wasn't sure how close the 
guys were behind me, so I 
decided to just pick up the 
speed a little bit," Ohno said. 
"We had a little bit of contact 
that caused me to get too far 
forward with my skates. I lost a 
lot of' spend and almost went 
down." 
Ohno stuck down his left hand 
in an attempt to stay up, send­
ing a black lane marker flying 
toward the padded walls. The 
23-year-old American never 
went down, but he swung wide 
on the turn while the rest of' the 
six-man field went on by. 
Even though one of his com­
petitors fell on the next turn, 
and another skater was dis­
qualified for iinpeding, Ohno 
still ended up fourth. And that 
wasn't good enough -only the 
top two skaters moved on to the 
"A" final. 
With Ohno out of the way, Ahil 
and Lee dominated the last race 
of the night. 
"It is a shame," Alm said. "All the Koreans were obviously expecting a raee between myself and Ohno. So in that sense I'm disappointed for the Koreans." 


Dutch speedskater pulls off upset 
Nineteen-year-old Wust beats out favored veterans in 3,000 meter 
Associated Press along the inside of the track. go for it." 
When they finished and Wust The teenager with the power­
TUHIN, Italy-The Dutch realized she had won gold, she ful build and imprnssive poise in have another spendskating star fell to her knees before jumping her first Olympics. She began at the Olympics -and an up and hugging strongly, faltering unlikely one at that. coach Gerard only briefly on the
"When the last 
Nineteen-year-old Ireen Wust Kempkers. Crown last lap. But, by
pair skated I had
took an early lead in the 3,000 Prince Willem then, she had meters by finishing in a person­Alexander, heir to to wait and then alrnady done al-best 4 minutes, 2.43 seconds the Dutch throne, enough.
when I saw that 
Sunday night, then listened to looked on from the Shn immndiatnly
they were ... above
music on her iPod while the stands, filled with pumpNI both fists, favored veterans from Germany orange-clad Dutch my time, it was so flashed a smile to and Canada failnd to beat her fans. beautiful. " thn Dutch fans and time. "They give you so -did a little dance in "It is crazy that it was good much energy," thn training lann. 
lreen Wust 
enough for gold," Wust said. Wust said. "You "It is so strange 
Wust's mentor and teammate hear them and you Dutch speedskater when you sit Henatc Groenewold won silver want to go fast1~r watching for 20 and world record-holder Cindy and faster." minutes and everybody ends Klassen of' Canada took bronze. The one-two finish also was a abovn your time," Wust said. Germans Anni great boon for the "When the last pair skated I had Friesinger and Dutch, who were to wait and then when I saw that Claudia Pechstein, fearful they were they were ... ahovn my time, it
"I knew she was

the defending heading for their was so beautiful." champion, finished good, but not this worst Olympks in Groenewold, a silver mndalist. fourth and firth, good." years, especially at the 2002 Salt Lake Games, respnctively. after the men only was 1.05 seconds behind and 
Even before she managed a silvnr needed a nH\jor eomnbar.k dliH·t 
Gerard Kempkers

clinched gold, mndal in their pre­to nip Klassnn at the line. Wust's time was an Dutch speedskatlng ferred 5,000. "[ am a little disappointed but achievement on the coach "I knew she was it is always lwttiH" to have a anma's slow ice. good, but not this Dutd1in on top than someonn 
"I was already good," Kempkers f~lse," Groenewold said. very happy beeause it was a per­said. Pechstein n1wer got dose to sonal record," Wust said. Wust only joined thn team of the lnad, eventually finishing 
She then anxiously watclwd as Kernpkers and Groennwold in rnon~ than 2 sneonds behind. night other riders, inducting all April. J>njected and exhausted. shn the favorites, took their shot. "She is a fast learner," threw lwr race armband to the 
By the time the final pair of Groenewold said. "She has a lloor, angry at having missed her the day began, Wust was pacing strong mind and she wanted to eighth Olympk nwdal. 
Write Sports. Call 1-4543. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 13, 2006 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 



Irish upset North Carolina, edge Wake Forest 
Thompson twins fall in doubles but rest ofsquad pummels No. 10 Tar Heels to earn victory in Chapel Hill 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Wrirer 
The Irish improved to 4-0 on the season with wins over No. 10 North Carolina and No. 23 Wake Forest over the week­end. 
Sunday's 5-1 upset over the Tar Heels was proof the Irish can compete with the nation's top programs. The victory marks the first time Notre Dame has defeated a top-10 ranked program since the 2001-02 season against No. 7 usc. 
The Irish got off to a strong start against North Carolina as they tiJOk the doubles point with wins at the Nos. 2 and 3 positions. 
At No. 2. the pairing of soph­omore Brook Buck and fresh­man Kelcy Tefft topped Caitlin Collins and Tanja Markovic in a comeback. At No. 3, the duo of seniors Kiki Stastny and team captain Lauren Connelly secured the victory after defeating the No. 50 ranked 
squad  of Meg Fanjoy  and  
Austin Smith 8-6.  
Juniors  Christian  and  

Catrina Thompson suffered the lone doubles loss, as the nation's No. 1 pair fell 8-3 to Sara Anundersen and Jenna Long. 
First off the courts in singles was freshman Katie Potts after topping the Tar Heels' Charlotte Tansill 6-2, 6-0 at No. 6, giving Potts her eighth consecutive win this season and fourth straight victory in dual matches. 
Catrina Thompson, ranked No. 24 nationally, defeated No. 28 Long 7-5, 6-4. Thompson now holds a 13-6 record on the season, including seven wins against nationally-
was able to flat­ten out his ball  "I was proud of the  Wisconsin's Felipe Bellido.  
and  be  more  fact that Barry  Langenkamp won  
aggressive," Bayliss said. "IIis ball had too much spin on it  {King] made an adjustment in that match and was  a difficult first set at No. 6, going 7-6 (8-6), 6-3 to put the Irish one  
in the middle set, and [his oppo­nent, Patrick] Rose was able to  able to flatten out his ball and more aggressive.  match away from clinc.hing. Helgeson, play­ing at No. 3,  
run  around and  sealed the victory  
get as many forehands as he wanted and dic­ Bobby Bayliss Irish coach  for the Irish with a 4-6, 6-1, 6-1 win. Bass won a  
tates.  Then  three-set  match  

Barry ended up dictating play over Wisconsin's Nolan Polley at the end." 3-6, 6-3, 6-4 at No. 2, but Barry King fell 3-6, 7-6 (7-2), Notre Dame 6, Wisconsin 1 7-5 at No. 4 to give the 
The Irish swept the doubles Badgers their only point of the point against Wisconsin, with match. Helgeson and Hoth first off the Parbhu closed out the match courts with an 8-2 win at third with a S-7, 6-1, 6-3 victory in 

Eric Langenkamp, top, delivers a serve during his doubles match with Sheeva Parbhu against Wisconsin Saturday. The Irish beat Wisconsin 3-1 en route to a 3-0 weekend. 
ranked opponents. 
Christian Thompson fol­lowed her sister's lead by top­ping Collins 4-6, 6-3, 6-4 at No. 2. The final win for the Irish came from Stastny, who finished 7-5, 7-6 (7-2) over Markovic and continues her streak of not dropping a set since Nov. 4. 
No. 22 Notre Dame 4 No. 23 Wake Forest 3 
During Saturday's 4-3 win over the Demon Deacons, Notre Dame's fate depended on a dutch win from Potts at No.6. 
After posting a S-2 advan­tage in the deciding third set, Potts failed to hold serve on her first attempt to close out the match against the Deacon's Sierra Poske. Poske then held serve to bring the contest to S-3, only to fall short in breaking Potts next attempt to serve out the match by finishing 7-6 (7-2), 4-6, 6-4. 

The Irish accounted for the other three points from the coveted doubles point and two wins in singles from No. 4 Tefft and No. 5 Stastny. 
In doubles, Notre Dame swept all three matches. 
The No. 1 ranked Thompson sisters sparked the team's momentum as they defeated Ashlee Davis and Alexandra Hirsch 8-1 at No. 1. They were followed by a win from Buek and Tefft at No. 2. The Irish underclassmen defeated the Demon's Ana Jerman and Christian Tara 8-3. 
The win not only secured the point for Notre Dame and gave the pairing its sixth consecu­tive win, it was also Buck's 40th career doubles victory. Completing the sweep in dou­bles were Stastny _and Connelly, who defeated Sierra Poske and Christine Simpson 8-6 at No. 3. 
In singles, Stastny walked off the court first with a 6-0, 6-2 win over Jenna Loeb at No.5. 
Tefft's 6-3, 6-4 victory over Tara at No. 4 gave the Irish a 3-0 lead in the match. 
However, critical losses from Catrina Thompson, Christian Thompson and Buck at Nos. 1, 2 and 3 gave the Demons a possibility for a surprise comeback. 
In the final match, Potts answered Wake Forest's rally with her victory over Poske, pulling out the win for Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame will be in action next against Michigan Wedne.sday at 4 p.m. in Ann Arbor. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

the top position. play," Bayliss said. "We got a lot match for the Irish with a 6-3, 
"Stephen showed a lot of of people in and that was good." 6-3 victory at No. 1. poise coming back," Bayliss The Irish again won the dou­"We know we have good said. "Sheeva did the same bles point, sweeping all three depth and it was time to prove thing here -he was a little off matches. Buchanan and Roth that this weekend and the guys his game in the first set and finished first at No. 3, winning did it," Bayliss said. "I think only lost four games the rest of 8-1. Keckley and Santiago Michigan State will provide the way." Montoya clinched the point at another opportunity and see 
No. 2 with an 8-2 win, and what we can do Wednesday Notre Dame 7, Bradley 0 Langenkamp and Parbhu fol­before we go to Ann Arbor." 
It was more of the same for lowed at No. 1 with another 8-The Irish next take the the Irish as they finished the 2 victory. courts against Michigan State weekend with a dominating King quickly won 6-1, 6-0 to Wednesday at 4 p.m. at the shutout of Bradley on Sunday put the Irish up 2-0. Coming Eck Tennis Pavilion. night. . off an injury, Irackli 
"I think in beating Bradley ... Akhvlediani won 6-0, 6-0 at Contact Kate Gales at everybody else stepped up to No. 6, and Bass clinched the kgales@nd.edu 

Announcing the Year 2006 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2006 annual competition for travel in support ofsummer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year ofItalian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study ofltalian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University ofNotre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbina, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department ofRomance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1)  .an explanation ofhow the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their  
degree program at Notre Dame;  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals;  
3)  a description ofthe research project or the program they intend to follow;  
4)  a budget indicating the costs involved;  
5)  ·the names oftwo references.  
Application Deadline:  Friday, February 17, 2006  
Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship  
Program in Italian Studies  
343 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
University ofNotre Dame  

Triple 
continued from page 24 
"I was proud of the fact that Barry made an adjustmen( in that match and 
doubles. 
Keckley and King clinched the point with an 8-3 win at No. 1 and Langenkamp and Parbhu won 8-4. 
In singles, Keckley was first off the courts again at No. 5, winning 6-2, 7-5 to fend off a 
comeback by 

Monday, February 13, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles say goodbye to seniors after last meet 
By BECKI DORNER and 
DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Spom Writers 
It. was a hittnrswnet season­ending nwnt. for tlw Bellns this WPI'kPnd at thP MIAA <:ham pionships. 
S1•wral Belles n~cord1~d ~~arner­and sPason-bPst t.imPs, but it was with sadness that tlw younger lklles said goodbye to seniors Katil• l>ingPnmn. Kelly NPlis and St.nphanin I file. 
Tlw BPlles 1~ame in last plan~ ··ompnting against Calvin Colle!{!\ llope College, Kalamazoo Colli'!{!', Olivet College, Albion College and Alma College. Calvin ranw away with tlw win led by their star swimmers Beeky Wdma and Abby Johnson. 
1-'111· thn Belles, Nnlis finislwd with a season-lwst tirnn of 5:2H.H7 in t.hn 500-rnetnr freestyle. Karla McGough also had a snason best with 5:41J.1JH in tlw nvent, and Knlly Tiglw wcordnd a 26.02 in the 50-rnet!~r freestyle. 
Dingnman had rncordnd a time of I:OH. B in thn 100-motnr but­tnrfly, and the team of Nornen SlwrrNI, Tiglw, I>ingeman. and 
Nelis n~eorded a season best 
tinw of 4:29.5 in thn 400-mnter 
medley relay. 
I>ingmnan said thn Bnlles knew they had a tough task in front of them hncause the team is the only one in the league not to havn divers. but tlwir tmun pride carried the swimmers to some of llwir best performances 
"Swimming for Saint Mary's these past limr years has been a tnw blessing," she said. "I have had a chance to com pete in a sport I love deeply and have made friends and memorios that will last a lifetime. It has been an honor to mpresent SMC as a cap­tain this year." 
The Belles look fiJrward to next ynar and hope that juniors Karla McGough, Sarah Budd and Mary Stancukas, all of whom special­ize in the freestyle, will be able to st1~p up to the plato and assume the leadership role for the Belles just as eiTeet.ively as captains Dingeman and Nelis did this yoar. 
Contact Becky Dorner at rdornerl @nd.edu and Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
Expanding Our Liturgical Horizons 
Saint Mary's College Center for Spirituality Spring Lecture Series 


TRACK 

Runners cruise in Windsor 
ByJORDAN BELTZ 
Sports Writer 
Tho Irish traveled to Canada this weeknnd to partieipate in the Windsor Invitational and lnf't a strong impression with several noteworthy linishes. 
Notre Dame athletes picked up four vietorins this wnekend, including two by standout sprinter Maryann Erigha. The junior sprinter won both the 60-meter dash and the 300­mnter dash. Erigha has been 01111 of the most consistent per­formers li1r the Irish this entire season, especially in the 60­meter event. 
This was her third vietory in tho 60 meters this indoor sea­son. She also won the fWPnt at both the Meyo Invitational and the Notrn Dame Oponer. 
The Irish women also per­formed well in the 60-meter hurdles. 
Sophomore Domenique Manning won the event with a time of 8.89 sneonds, thn fastnst time that an Irish sprinter has run all season. Freshman Alyissa Hasan took seeond place just behind Manning. 
Senior Hyan Postel earned the lourth and final Irish vietory of the weekend. Postel won the 300-meter run with a time of 
35.10 seeonds. .Junior .Jordan Powell also ran well in the :~00 meters, plaeing fourth. 
The Notre Dame pole vaulters also turned in strong efl'orts, led by juniors Dave Vikcn and .Justin Oppel, who finished in sneond and third plaee, respec­tively. Viken came up just a eentimetnr short of his personal best, dearing a height of 4.70 meters. 


Oppel, competing in his lirst meet this season after rehab­bing a head injury, eleared a height of 4.50 mnters, good enough to qualify for the Big East Championships. 
"This meet was my first onn since returning to action from a concussion, so it was all or nothing for me," Oppel said. "I knew that I needed to perform well in ordnr to qualify for th1~ Big East Championships." 
Notre Dame now looks to the Big East Indoor Championships next wnnk. Thn Irish men arn the defending meet duunpions, while the womnn canw in sec­ond last year to the Univnrsity of Pittsburgh. 
"My main goal for noxt wonk is just to s1~ore sonw points for the tnam as we try to ddend our titln," Oppnl said. ''I'm just trying to stay hnalthy and eon­tributn to thn team." 
The Big East Indoor Championships will take place next Saturday and Sunday in Akron, Ohio. 
Contact Jordan Beltz at jbeltz@nd.edu 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

Squad scrimmages _No. 2 Duke 
By TIM DOUGHERTY 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame played its wnek­nnd pair of scrimmages Saturday in Durham, N.C. without a running s1~ornboard. Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said ho did not conc1~rn himself with tho scorns or thn team's gamns against No. 2 Duke and No. 25 Bucknnll. instead look­ing ror sound, mistakn-rrnn play. 
Though the scrimmages worn complete with officials to simulate real garnn play, thn only goal Corrigan kept track or was improvement -whieh he said he found in his tnam's nl'l'ort Saturday. 
"Playing a sound. rundanwn­tal gamn has bnen a point or mnphasis this year," Corrigan said. "It was good to see them go out and play that way. It was a groat weekend for us ­exactly what we noeded." 
Corrigan said his strategy was to usc the trip as a chance to improve before the Irish open tlwir season Fob. 26 against Penn State. • 
"Wn were trying dil'l'nrent things with difTernnt lineups Saturday," he said. "We were morn concerned with doing what we wanted to set. out to do than we were with a linal scorn." 
Corrigan belinved his squad, ranked No. 12 in the eountry, aceom plished its goals in the scrimmage. lie did not singln out any individual pnrformane­es but said the defnnsn playnd particularly well in the errort. matching the other squads' levels or intensity. "Both teams were very athletic and VPry physical," he said. "That was good for us to play against teams that como aftnr us phys­ically. We played some very good tnams. Thn trip was nxtrnnwly bennlkial." 


On thn oiTensive sidn or thn ball. Corrigan thought tlw Irish played well but with room to improve. 
"We didn't shoot thn ball very well, and we could'vn been morn selective in our shots," he said. 
Now, Notre Dame will use its Jirst tastn or ganw expnrinJH',(~ and continuo l.o impl'ovn its fundamentals in practi1:e, whil'h Corl'igan bPiinvns will hn tlw kny to dnfnat I'PllJJ Statn in two WIH~ks. 
"I n the earI y g a 1111~ s," lw said, "you don't got. l.o snout and havn info on l.Pams likP you do IatP r i n l.lw y n a r. Playing sound and good f'unda­mnntally is how you SUI'Vivn thos1~ !larly gamns. 
"Tiw best thing wn gairwd was a dwnee to tnst oursPivPs and to compnt.n to lw a bnttnr team whon we play l'nnn State. It's all about us taking stnps forward." 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 

Wednesday, February 15, 2006 7:00p.m., Le Mans Hall, Stapleton Ulunge 
Exparu:ling Our Liturgical Horizons 
Edward Foley, Capuchin, Ph.D. Professor of Liturf.,ry :omd Music Catht)lie Theological Union, Chicago 
Wednesday, March 29, 2006 7:00p.m., Lc Mans Hall, Stapleton Lounge 
The Eucharist: Hi..o;torical Perspectives and Current Concerns 
Catherine Vincie, RSHM, Ph.D. Associate Professt)r, Sacramental and Liturgicnll11eolof-,ry Aquinas Institute, Saint Louis University, St. Louis 
--EB ,'
Saint Mazy's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 
CENTER FOR SPIRITUALITY 
www.saintmarys.edu/-cfs 
(574) 2&1-.-4636 • t.•mail: astrotma@saintmarys.edu 

4 ' 
. ' 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 13, 2006 

The save sparked an Irish offensive flurry, and less than
Sweep 
continued from page 24 
playoffs. 
''I'm really happy that we won the game, and I'm happy for our crowd because we've had some good crowds in here on Friday nights and we've disappointed them in the past," Irish head coach Jeff Jackson said of the series' Friday home game. 
The Irish started strong Friday and opened up a 2-0 lead by the beginning of the second period, but Ferris State cut the lead to one with a late­period goal at 14:27. Notre Dame hung on to end the stan­za with the lead, but an Irish bench minor for too many men on the ice at 1:50 of the third gave the Bulldogs a power play. 
Ferris State controlled the puck in the Irish zone and worked the puck to the left post, where Irish goalie Dave Brown made the initial save. While Brown was sprawled against the post, the rebound came to Bulldogs sniper Greg Rallo on the right side of the crease with a wide-open net. Rallo shot the puck low into the net when Brown -still on his back -shot his glove out across the goal and snagged the would-be tying score out of Ferris State's hands. 
"They were pressuring us pretty hard," Brown said. "It was good to get the big save and try to help the guys with the momentum a little bit. "[My teammates! are going hard at the other end, and I wanted to do my part to give them the confidence that I'm back there for them." 
Brown made 26 saves and only allowed the lone goal of the game on a screen shot from defenseman Adam Welch at the point on a Bulldogs power play. The shot broke through a tangle of players in front of the net and was buried over Brown's right shoulder. 
"Without great goaltending, you can't do anything," Jackson said. "David has been outstanding since Christmas, and he was pretty good before Christmas. He's been the dif­ference maker for us. When you get a save like that, it ral­lies your team and it's gener­ally a momentum changer." 
three minutes later, defense­man Wes O'Neill added a game breaker. At 6:00 of the third period, O'Neill stepped up and unleashed a shot from the high left slot that deflected off a stick and hit the twine just under the crossbar. 
Left wing Mike Walsh fin­ished off the Bulldogs with a lucky bounce and a great move one minute later. Walsh collected a breakout pass that deflected off the linesman's skates in the neutral zone. Walsh split the two Bulldogs defensemen and slipped the puck between the post and pad on the low right side for the 4-1 lead at 7:17. 
"[Walsh] plays the same way all the time -he plays physi­cal, he plays big, he can skate well," Jackson said. "He has good skating skills, and I was glad to see him bust through like that. That's a big time goal; a professional type goal." 
It was not the lone goal for Walsh on the game, as he had already lit the lamp early in the second to give the Irish a 2-0 lead. Right wing T.J. .Jindra and Walsh advanced into the Bulldogs zone on a two-on-one. Jindra cut to the center and dished a backhand to Walsh on the right side. Jindra fought through the defense to set up a screen, and Walsh sent a wrister in on the low right side at 4:33. 
Erik Condra got the Irish on the board first at 12:48 of the opening period on a power play goal. Notre Dame worked the puck up high around Ferris State's zone until Mark Van Guilder dished off to Condra. Condra stepped in and shot from above the circle to put the puck in the top right corner. 
"To get on the board early with' a power play was really crucial for the entire team's confidence," Walsh said of Condra's goal. "Once we had that, everyone was like 'All right, we're going to win."' 
Notre Dame continued its dominance over its ranked opponent on Saturday night with a power play-laden 3-2 victory. 
The Irish once again got to an early 2-0 lead, with an emphasis on "early." 
Jason Paige scored 46 sec­onds into the game off a rebound from a Walsh shot. 


Paige roofed the puck over Bulldogs goalie Mitch O'Keefe's shoulder. 
Josh Sciba then added to his Irish goal lead with his 14th of the year when he created the two-goal lead at 16:02 of the same period. Sciba scored off a dish from Condra. 
Ferris State tied the game in the second with two power play goals at 12:23 and 16:21. 

The goals came from Mark 
Bomersback and Eric Vesely. 
But Van Guilder secured the game winner on an Irish power play with only seconds remaining in the period. Van Guilder collected a pass from Condra in the middle and slipped the winner past O'Keefe for the 3-2 win at 
Law&... 

February 15, 2006 4:00p.m. Law School Courtroom 
21st Century Out-Laws (The Globalization ofWar and Profit) 
19:53. 
Brown was solid in net for the second straight night, sav­ing 29 of 31 shots faced. 
The Irish will be in action next weekend with two games on the road against Bowling Green in Bowling Green, Ohio. 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 

THAI RESTAURANT 
We are looking forward to creating a wonderful evening and a romantic experience for you and your special guest this Valentine's day. 
(Please make a reservation in advance if you plan to spend your romantic evening with us) 
Presenter: Commentator: 

Carolyn Nordstrom Department ofAnthropology 
Mary Ellen O=Connell The Law School 
Lunch: Mon-Fri 11 am-2pm Dinner. Mon-Sat 5pm-9pm 

Please join the Law School and the Department ofAnthropology for this
211 N. Main Downtown South Bend 

presentation in the 2005-2006 Law&... series. 
1232-44451 

Monday, February 13, 2006 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Fencing 
continued from page 24 
Early on in the mateh, the Irish were tied with the Cardinal at 3­3, but freshman foilist Mark Kubik's 5-3 win over Hichard Fulton ignited a live-bout win­ning streak that gave Notre Dame a eomfortable margin it would not relinquish the rest of the mateh. The run included a big win by junior sabrn Patrick Ghattas over freshman Teddy Levitt. (;hattas' 12-0 perform­ance at the UCSD dunls pushed his record to 51-5 for the year. 
In the women's match, the Irish and Cardinal were also tied at 3-:~ before an 8-bout winning streak put Notre Dame alwad for good. The run ended when Stanford's Eva Jellinson defeated Irish sophomore Mariel Zagunis 5-l in their sabm bout. 
Zagunis, last season's national runner-up and a 2004 Olympic gold medalist, lost just her sec­ond bout of the season. She lin­islws the regular season with a 46-2 record, and her .952 win­ning percentage is the best all­time record for a Notre Dame women's sabre. 
"She was maybe a little bit sltwpy, and sometimes with bouting sabre, it is like Hussian roulnttn, when you wake up it is too late," Bednarski said. "It's likn winning in tennis 6-0, 6-0, 6-0, 6-0; if you are losing one set sometimes, you an~ still champi­on." 
Tho Irish women's team also toppml Army 21-6, Cal Tech 26­1, UC San Dingo 18-Y, Cal State­Fullerton 22-5, and Air Force 22-5. Junior sabre Valerie Providenza led the women's effort with a perfect 15-0 record at the event and improving her record to 54-8 on the season, the third most wins in Notre Dame history by a female sabre. 
"She fenced very strongly. For a long time, I will say that I did not see her in such a good form," Bednarski said. "She had great speed, great concentration, and it was a big step forward." 
The men's undefeated day included wins over all the same squads, as the Irish defeated Cal State-Fullerton 22-5, UC San Diego 20-7, Cal Tech 25-2, Army 22-5 and Air Force 18-9. 
The victory over Air Force included sophomore epee cap­tain Greg Howard's 5-4 victory over All-American Tim French. The win was the highlight of Howard's 9-3 day, and he finish­es his season with a 44-9 mark. 
"It was very well seen that the kids worked hard, were very well prepared," Bndnarski said. 
But he hesitated to put much emphasis on the win. 
"It doesn't say a lot about our future," he said. "We will say that we were very well pre­pared, but our rivals are pretty strong and will try not to be beat again." 
The Notre Dame men's 29 wins tin a school record set in 1996, and the team's overall sea­son bout reeord of 630-180 shat­ters is a Notre Dame high for wins, eclipsing the '96 team's 606. 
The women's team's marks of 29 wins and 660 bout wins are both tied for fourth best in pro­gram history. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
Pizza • Pasta • Veal • Lasagna Manicotti • Subs 
Rout 
continued from page 24 
from the field. 
"We need to improve our defense," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "Our rebound­ing has been a problem all year long. We had the same problems we've had all year. We've just got to keep working to fix them." 
DePaul guard Allie Quigley and forward Khara Smith led the Blue Demons past the Irish with precise shooting and forceful rebounding. Quigley, who led the nation in three­point percentage as a fresh­man last year, connected on 4­of-5 from behind the arc and 8-of-12 overall en route to a 26-point performance. Smith dominated the post, scoring 12 points and adding 19 rebounds. The 19 rebounds, which tie for the most ever against the Irish, are the high­est total by a Notre Dame opponent since Wendy Scholtens of Vanderbilt hit the mark on Jan. 8, 1989 in an 84­64 Commodores victory. 
"[Smith] did a great job," McGraw said. "She was really physical inside and did a nice job going after the ball worked hard to get it." 
Only a Tulyah Gaines leaner Quigley's three-pointer with 53 very poor job on the boards," seconds left broke a tie to give McGraw said. "I thought the Blue Demons a 29-26 lead Lindsay Schrader did a good at halftime. job on the defensive boards, 

"I thought we executed pret­but she was the only one." ty well in the first half," The Blue Demons held in McGraw said. "We got good check Irish forward Courtney 
shots  -we just  LaVere,  who  
didn't make them. In the second half, it  "We missed a lot of layups and a lot of  had made 21 of her last 2Y field goal attempts  
was the same thing pretty much. In this one it was hard  easy jumpers, and we just put our heads down and felt  coming into the game. LaVere shot 5­of-14 from the  
because we missed so many  sorry for ourselves. "  floor and man­aged just 10  
easy shots. We missed a lot of  Muffet McGraw  points and six rebounds.  
layups and a lot  Irish coach  Notre  Dame  

of easy jumpers, and we just put our heads down ~nd felt sorry for our­selves. 
DePaul outrebounded Notre Dame 51-37, including 25-16 in the first half. and had 22 assists on 29 field goals to Notre Dame's six on 17 bas­kets from the floor. 
Duffy played all 40 minutes but struggled from the field. She hit just 2-of-7 from three­point range and was 0-for-5 on shots inside the are. She made all six of her free throw attempts to finish with 12 points and four assists. 
Sophomore guard Charel Allen led the Irish with 15 
points on 7-of­
16 shooting 
with 1.3 sec­onds remaining kept the loss  "We need to improve our defense. Our  from the field. "I thought Charel played  
under 30 points for the Irish. DePaul got off to a quick start, mounting a 20­10 lead with nine minutes left in the first half. The Irish  rebounding has been a problem all year long. We had the same problems we've had all year. we·ve just got to keep working to fix them.,,  well for us," McGraw said. "She did a lot of good things to try to get us going. She was active and kept trying to score late in the  
clawed  their  game."  
way back dur­ing the next five minutes  Muffet McGraw Irish coach  Lindsay Schrader made just 1-of-12  
with  solid  from the floor  
defense  and  in her six-point  

steady production from the performance, her lone basket offense. Two free throws by coming on an off-balance senior guard Megan Duffy with three-pointer as the shot cloek 
4:09 remaining gave Notre ran down late in the first hall', Dame its first lead of the but led the Irish with seven game. rebounds. 
The teams went back-and­"We were outrebounded forth until the break, and pretty significantly; we did a 
next faces Connecticut Sunday in the Joyce Center. 
Notes: 
+ The Blue Demons con­nected on 6-of-14 from three­point range, but their perform­ance Sunday was a far cry from their Jan. 17 encounter at Notre Dame when they went 13-of-2Y from long range. 
"We did a much better job than last time we played them," McGraw said. "I thought hold­ing them to six threes was pret­ty good defensively. Asidn from Quigley, we did a pretty good job on them." 
Still, for the season Notre Dame opponents are shooting 
37.3 percent from the field, a mark that if maintained would shatter the Irish opponent record of' 34.0 percent set in 1 Y91-92. 
+ Notre Dame is now in a virtual tie for spots No. 9 through 12 in the Big East with three teams-Cindnnati, Villanova and West Virginia ­all 4-6 in confnrenee. Villanova owns the tiebreaker over Notre Dame for tlw Big East Tournament thanks to its win over the Irish Feb. 7, and Notre Dame has yet to play the Bearcats and Mountaineers. 
At 3-8 in the league, Georgetown and Seton Ilall are a game and a half behind the four teams eurrently hold­ing the last bid to Storrs, Conn. for the Big East Tournament. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

Town & Country Shopping Center 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Miehewake • Indiana 

"God is love, and all who abide in love abide in God" (John 4: 16) 
The St. Vincent de Paul Society, an international Catholic organization dedicated to Charity through Personal, Loving Service, invites you to an Organizational Meeting: 
Monday, February 13 @ The Center for Social 
Concerns 7:30-8:30 prn 


**Pizza and Drinks Provided 
Featured Speaker: Professor Larry Cunningham, Theology Department, who will speak on Charity as a Way of Life. 

Belles get big win on senior day 
Bridget Boyce takes over in last regular-season home game 
rebounds and five assists. On four points to cut the del1cit 
By FRAN TOLAN 

the defensive end, Boyce held to two with 60 seconds Sports Writer 
Kalamazoo's Jen Layne -remaining. 
who scored 19 in a game The Belles turned over the 
Led by senior captain against Saint Mary's earlier ball on the ensuing posses­Bridget Boyce, Saint Mary's this season -to just two sion, and Kalamazoo's Mary defeated Kalamazoo 57-54 on points on 1-of-6 shooting. Brown drew a foul with 30 the team's senior day "She really played the game seconds left but connected on Saturday. of her life," Bender said. just one of' two free throws. 
It was the final home game The Belles led 31-22 at After two Saint Mary's free for the Belles, · halftime, but throws increased the lead to who improved to Kalamazoo 57-54 with 14 seeonds on thn 11-12 overall "{Boyce} put the fought baek in clock. Kalamazoo's Stephanin and 9-5 in the the second Anderson was unable to eon­
entire team on her

MIAA. Boyce frame. vert a three-point attempt as seized the back . ... She really The Hornets time expired. moment in her played the game of took a 37-36 With Saturday's loss, final regular­lead with 13:50 Kalamazoo falls to 5-16 over­
her life." 

season contest at remaining. The all and 2-12 in MIAA leagun the Angela game was tied play. Brown lnd thn Ilornets Athletic Center. Steve Bender four times over with nineteen points. 
"I Boyce I put Belles coach the next eight Sophomore guard Alison the entire team minutes of Kessler, who had 11 points, on her back," aetion, as nei­was the only other Bnlle to Belles head coach Steve ther team could pull away. seore in double ligums. Bender said. Saint Mary's held a 55-49 
The shooting guard poured advantage with 2:03 loft, but Contact Fran Tolan at in 15 points and added seven Kalamazoo scored the next ftolan@nd.edu 
page 22 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, February 13, 2006 
www.pwc.com/xtax 




Can five students change the tax strategy of an entire nation? They already have.* 

I 
• 
•
•
' 
I 
I I I I 
I 
' 
I 
' 
I I 
' 
'I 
I I I I I 
I I I I I 
I 
I 
' 
I 
' •
I I 
-----------------~----------·----~---------------­
Monday, Fehruary U, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 2j 

'-tzo PA6E.C:.. 

CROSSWORD 
J 5 Egyptian fertility goddess 
ACROSS 

1 Actor Baldwin J 6 Takes a turn on 
. Go a mile a "Wheel of minute, say 
Fortune" to Canaanite god 
3 a Unadulterated 1 4 Length between 
39 "Queen of mini and maxi 

denial" for t5 Uptight person 
Queen of the 1•· Peter Nile classic 
·I o Ollie's partner in cartoonist for old comedy The New Yorker 41 Wild 11 One's equal 4 2 1992 movie 

t e Dances at 4 6 Actor Chaney 
Jewish weddings 4 1 Classical paintings

19 Alliance since '49 4 8 1970's TV show ao 1852 book 
with a literal hint to 20-, 25-and 23 Old Italian 42-Across 

money 55 Feeling that 

24 Long, long time 
makes you say 2s 1944 play "Ow!" 
11 Trap 
56 Biblical spy 12 Low-cal 
5'1 When repeated, J J Miner's find a court cry 

5 9 For men only 
6 o The Little 
Mermaid 61 The ''N" of N.B. 6 2 "Dear God!" GJ Pee Wee who 
was nicknamed The Little Colonel 
64 Quick cut 
DOWN 
1 Unit of current, informally 2 In of (instead of) 3 Home for Adam and Eve 4 Vultures, at times 5 Globe 6 For the time being 
1 Currency that replaced 23-Across 
a Dutch cheese 9 Puddings and pies, e.g. 1 o Snack for a monkey 
1 1 Saudi, e.g. 
12 Not for 
11 Crazy as a_ 
2 1 Fertilizer 
ingredient 
2 2 Arrive 
2 5 ''To recap ... " 
26 Wet, weatherwise 2 1 Thin pancakes 2 a "lch bin Berliner'-' ­
29 Grieve 
WILLSHORTZ 

3 o Lineup 
31 Taste, as wine 
14 ·sushi fish 
J 6 Vehicle that 
does crazy tricks 37 de deux 3 s Funds for 4 a Lhasa _ (dog) s4 Abominable 
retirees Snowman 
4 9 Homebuilder's 4 o Shortly strip 58 Microwave 
4 1 What soap may 5 o Actor Neeson leave 
s1 Long-eared 4 3 light, as clothes 
leaper 4 4 Bank's ad 52 Nobelist Wiesel 
come-on 5' City on the
4 5 Practical, as a Rhoneplan 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
OTTOH 

rJ I (] 
<i'J2006 Tribune Madra Sarvrcas, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ESKOT 
j

rJ r II 
DUSHOL j 

THE: WE:I\THE:f<MAN MISSE:O THE: BUS

I I r () 
BE:CI\USE: HE:
www.jumb1e .com 

WAS--­tCREELY 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.

IIJ I I 
Answer: IN [ 

I I J(I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I 
Jumbles: SHYLY BANDY FORCED MISERYSaturday's 
Answer: What t11e cabbie got when he picked up the ora· tor-AN "ADDRESS" 
EUGENIA LAST


HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Christina Rkd, 2h: Ars.:nio flail, 51; Ray Mar11arek, 67; Judy Blunw. 6H 
Happy Birthday: Be prepared to worry less ahout the little trivial mailers that crop up along the way this year. Emotional mailers are likely hl come to a head and should he dealt with quickly and ciTidcntly. In so doing, you will he able to feel free to pursue y<>ur dreams. Your numhers are 2. 6, 17, 25. 3'1, 41 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9l: You will he ahle to come through no muller what you are asked to do today. You have lhc stamina. courage and whatever else it takes to far exceed anyone's expectation~. Then it will he time to enjoy hcing the hero. ***** 
TALIRLIS (Apri120-May 2(1): Relax and don't put pressure on yourself to gt•t things done today. Whatever you don't complete can he tak<~n care of later in Ihe week. Instead, enjoy family or your tim.: alone and don't feel guilty. ** GEMINI (May 21-Jun«.> 20): You've gnl plenty going li•r you today so don't let anyone ruin your plans. You can adapt easily tn any changes. Don't he J'l~luetanl logo somewhere alone. You'll make new friend, qukkly. **** CANCER l.lun«.> 21-.July 22): Ynu will find it difficult tn take your mind off business and money matters. If it makes you feel better, do a lillie worli to put your mind at case. You can make a good deal happen if you addrc" any problems head on.*** LEO (July 23-Au!(. 22): You will tend to keep ynur feelings lo yourself today hut that may end Up cnnfusing the people in your life even more. Give everyone the lowdown even if you know it will cause some problems. The sooner you clear matters up. the happier your existence. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Someone is withholding information from you. You may want to rethink some of your current partnerships. If you arc ft~l'ling as if you arc being taken a<.lvantagt• of, formulate a game plan lu turn things around. *** · LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Speak up and you will he heard. This is a great day to participate in a cause you believe in. You can dnunup greater intcrc,l. Not everyone will he honest about his or her reason, for hdping out. **u SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 J: Change may not be to your liking htll il will he inevitable so ju&t go with it. Anger will do you no good but pulling some energy into your future and your own talent will. Heuer times arc heading your way. •• SAGITTARiliS (Nov. 22-D~c. 21 ): A day trip will hring all sorts of new idea!. and thoughts to mind. You need to stimulate your mind and ~park your enthusiasm. A change of scenery will revitalize you. Today is a great day to set future goals. 
***** 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): It will he very easy to lose sil;!hl of what needs to be done and what can he len until later. Don'llet someone lead you in a different dir.:ction. A muncy deal will not he as it appt'an>. Prolt'l'l your cash. *** AQUARJliS (Jan. 20-F~h. 11!): Plan to have sonll' fun with sorneont· who interests you. You will ht• coerced into an argumt•nt if you arc ton serious. Be agreeable and easygoing. Trawl or making personal changes will not turn nul as planned. *** PISCES (Ft•b. 19-March 20): Overtime will pay off ami your mind will he on what and how to do something that can lead lo advancement. Don't fight it. Give it your best shot. You will impress everyone you do busines. with.*** 
Birthday Baby: You arc charismatic, entertaining and a hnrn leader. You arc empathetic yet honest, omgoing and diplomatic. You are strong-willed and very progressive. 
E'tlgt•nia 's »'t•h sit,•s: astnJadl'if·~·.ctJm j(Jt·fun. c11l8t'lt;a/,ISI.t'tJffl jtJr conjid~·lllia!t·tm:mlrtllions 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 1:3,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make cheeks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enelosed is $55 for one semester 

Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Monday, February 13, 2006 
page 24 
( HOCKEY 
Sweep smell of success 

Irish take two games from Ferris State to get back in the hunt for home ice in the playoffs 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
The Irish have been gaining momentum since mid­December, but it took a Michigan State setback last weekend to refocus a team firing on almost all cylinders. 
Notre Dame {9-12-3 CCHA, 11-16-3 overall) swept the No. 20 Ferris State Bulldogs (9-10-5, 14-12-6) 4-1 and went 3-2 in its home-and­home series on Friday and Saturday night. 
The sweep pushes the Irish into a tie for ninth place with Alaska-Fairbanks, which swept Bowling Green in its weekend series. The two teams now trail Northern Michigan and Ohio State by just one point for seventh place, a crucial spot as the No. 8 team earns a home berth in the first round of the 
see SWEEP/page20 


FENCING 
Victory is svveet cap for season 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 

Notre Dame has a lot to be pleased about as the regular season comes to a close. 
The Irish fencers, ranked No. 1 in the women's poll and No. 2 in the men's, completed two 6-0 sweeps at the UC-San Diego Duels over the weekend, fmish­ing the regular season with twin 29-1 records. 
"Frankly speaking, we will say that it was a very strong per­formance of the young team," Irish head coach Janusz Bndnarski said. 
The event's biggest matchup pit­ted the Irish against No. 9 Stanford. Notre Dame had strong performances in both the men's and women's sides, winning 1 7-10 and 20-7, respectively. 
see WIN/page 21 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Teanntakesthreefronn top opponents at Eck 
Strong doubles set the tone for success in first home matches 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish snapped a three­game losing streak this week­end, winning all three of their matches at the Eck Tennis Pavilion to improve to 4-4 on the season. 
Notre Dame topped Purdue 6-1, Wisconsin 6-1 and Bradley 7-0 to rebound from a difficult road trip early in the season. 
"A 'W' is always better than an 'L,"' head coach Bobby Bayliss said. "I think some of the guys needed to win some matches and I think that was good." 
Notre Dame 6, Purdue 1 
The Irish came out strong against the Boilermakers with a win in the doubles competi­tion, and they never looked back. 
In the first doubles match, Eric Langenkamp and Andrew Roth won 8-5 at No. 3, but Ryan Keckley and Barry King fell 8-5 at No. 1 to leave the point in the hands of· Brett Helgeson and Sheeva Parbhu. 
Parbhu and Helgeson won 8-3 at No. 2 to put the Irish up 1-0 going into the singles matches. 
"I thought Purdue came in and really played hard against us," Bayliss said. "We surpris­ingly won the doubles point quickly -they usually play great doubles, and we got the false impression we might be in for an easy day." 
In singles, Keckley won 6-1, 6-4 to offset a loss by captain Patrick Buchanan by a score of 6-4, 6-2. 
Stephen Bass won 6-4, 6-4 at No. 1 to put the Irish within one point of victory, and Parbhu clinched the win for the Irish at No. 2 with a 6-2, 6­2 victory. 
King won at No. 3 despite dropping the second set with a score of 6-1, 3-6, 6-3. 
see TRIPLE/page 18 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Blue Demons crush Irish 
Irish set possession record but lose big to No. 15 DePaul 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame set a new school record for fewest turnovers in a game Sunday at the DePaul Athletic Center-and lost by 29. 
The Irish (14-9, 5-7 Big East) turned the ball over only six times but shot just 25 percent from the field Sunday and suffered a 79­50 drubbing at the hands of No. 15 DePaul (19-5, 7 -5). It was Notre Dame's worst defeat since Tennessee beat the Irish 89-50 in the NCAA Tournament on March 17, 2002. 
Unfazed by Notre Dame's ability to maintain posses­sion, DePaul attacked to the very end, scoring on fast break opportunities and long three-pointers in the final minutes to cap off a game in which the Blue Demons shot 51 percent 
see ROUT/page 21 



SMC BASKETBALl  ND WOMEN'S TENNIS  OLYMPICS  MEN~s BASKETBALL  OLYMPICS  NBA  
Saint Mary's 57 Kalamazoo 54  Notre Dame 5 North Carolina 1  American short-track  Pittsburgh 89 Cincinnati 69  Figure skater Michelle  Miami 100 Detroit 98  
speedskater  Apollo  Kwan announced she  
Bridget Boyce led the  The  Irish  recorded  Anton Ohno tripped in  The Bearcats lost their  will not compete in the  Dwayne Wade scored  
Belles to their ninth win  their f.irst win over a  the  semifinals  of  the  sixth game in Big East  Olympics.  Emily  17 consecutive points to  
in MIAA play on senior  top-10  team  in  five  1,500-meter  race  and  play  Sunday  to  the  Hughes  will  replace  lead the Heat past the  
day.  years.  could not defend his title.  Panthers.  Kwan in Turin.  Pistons.  
page 21  page 18  page 17  page 16  page 15  page 14  







