
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 30 TUESDAY, OCTOBER3, 2006 

Saint Mary's guards female identity 
College has no plans to become co-ed 
By KELLY MEEHAN Saint Mary's Editor 
Strengthened by a $130 mil­lion endowment and an increasingly large applicant pool, Saint Mary's College offi­cials said they have not and will not consider admitting men, despite recent trends across the country to do other­wise. 
Of the 300 all-female institu­tions in the United States in the 1960s, only 60 remain today, according to an article that appeared in The New York Times Sept. 21. 
The interest in women's col­leges among high school grad­uates is dwindling, too -only 
3.4 percent of students who 
see CO-ED/page 8 
Police issue 25 tickets, make 7 custodial arrests 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Editor 
Police issued 22 arrest tick­ets to adults and made seven custodial arrests for misde­meanor violations of liquor laws before and during Saturday's home football game against Purdue University. 
Three additional arrest tickets were issued to juve­niles for alcohol related offenses, such as minor con­suming or minor in posses­sion of alcohol, Associate Director of Notre Dame 
Security/Police (NDSP) Phil Johnson said in an e-mail Monday. Six of the custodial arrests were for public intox­ication and one was for minor in possession of alco­hol. 
Police transported offend­ers to St. Joseph County Jail, Johnson said. 
During the game, 18 people were removed from Notre Dame Stadium for "alcohol related offenses," three were arrested for public intoxica­tion and one was "sent to a local hospital due to intoxica­
see ARRESTS/page 8 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Student allegedly assaulted 
Police say suspectfirst harassed woman 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Editor 
Police are searching for a white college-age male who allegedly harassed a female stu­dent and assaulted a male stu­dent early Saturday morning, officials said Monday. 

The man and woman were seated on a bench outside of LaFortune Student Center and Washington Hall at around 1 :40 
a.m. Saturday when they were approached by "three or four college-aged men," said Associate Director of Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) Phil Johnson. 
"One of the men jumped on the bench, straddled the woman and simulated a sexual act," Johnson said. 
When the woman's friend con­fronted the suspect, he was punched several times before the suspect fled north, Johnson said. 
"The male victim was not seri­ously injured and the female vic­tim was not injured," he said. 
Though NDSP responded and searched nearby areas, they were unable to locate the sus­pect. 
The man was described as being about six feet tall with brown medium-length hair, Johnson said. 

"NDSP asks anyone with infor­mation about this crime to con­tact us," Johnson said. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 


Committee created to address retention 
By KATIE KOHLER 
News Writer 
Roughly 86 percent of Saint Mary's freshmen return to the College for their sophomore year -a retention rate far higher than the 33 percent national average but still in need of improvement, College officials say. 
From spring 2006 to fall 2006, 38 first year students transferred or left Saint Mary's for various reasons, according to the Office of Institutional Research at Saint Mary's. Twenty-five of the 38 trans­ferred to Notre Dame. 
The College recently created a Retention Committee that will address the 85 to 87 percent 
see RETENTION/page 6 



Atnid declining sales, panel exatnines ne-wspapers' future 
Some ofnation's top journalists gatherfor Gallivan Program's annualforum; technological advances, Web readership discussed 
By MAUREEN MULLEN 
News Writer 
The future of the daily news­paper is not doomed, as long as those who work for them are willing to change, six jour­nalism professionals said at a panel discussion Monday. 
The forum, hosted by the Notre Dame Gallivan Pro.gram in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy, examined the changes the field of journal­ism has undergone in the 10 years since the Gallivan Program was founded. Panelists also wrestled with what the future might hold for the delivery of daily news. 
Participants in the panels were all members of the 
Gallivan Program's advisory committee and included Dan LeDuc, deputy national editor of The Washington Post; Bill Dwyer, who worked as sports editor for the Los Angeles Times for 25 years; John McMeel, founder and CEO of Andrews McMeel Universal; Bill Mitchell, director of pub­lishing and on-line editor for the Poynter Institute for Media Studies; Anne Thompson, chief financial correspondent for NBC in New York; and Tom Bettag, executive producer of 
Discovery Networks. 
Robert Schmuhl, American Studies department chair and director of the Gallivan Program, began the forum by highlighting the dwindling interest in newspapers during 
the last 10 years, noting that newspaper readership fell from 50 to 40 percent since 1996. 
He posed the question to panelists: "Change ... what on earth will the next decade bring?" 
Panelists spoke about issues of print and broadcast jour­nalism -how the fields have changed and will continue to change as the Internet becomes a major source of information. 
LeDuc said that despite decreasing newspaper sales at The Washington Post -circu­lation has been falling since at least 1996, when readership was more than one million ­
see PANEL/page 9 

Tuesday, October 3, 2006 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Get rid of 
the fight 

songs CD 
I like to get to the stadium early. 
My usual home game Saturday routine is to watch the band march out and follow it to the stadium, where I can be in my seat about 45 minutes before kickoff 
Chris Khorey
to observe warmups. (If you've never Associate Sports seen Quinn Editor and the receivers toss a ball around with as little pres­sure as your average guys on the quad, try it sometime. They're pretty impressive.) 
However, my enjoyment of this Saturday ritual is tempered by Notre Dame Stadium's insistence on playing a generic fight songs CD on the P.A. before the game. 
While, being a college football geek, I enjoy fight songs, there is no reason for me to walk into Notre Dame Stadium for a game against Purdue and hear "There is no place like Nebraska," "The Minnesota Rouser" or "Hamblin' Wreck from Georgia Tech." 
Non-Darners notice this strange choice of music as well. When I was in high school, I brought a Michigan fan (and now student) friend of mine to a Notre Dame­Navy game. I had no delusions of converting him, but I thought I'd show him what real football atmos­phere looks like. 
As soon as we walked into the stadium he got a dumbfounded look on his face asked, "Why are you guys playing Wisconsin's fight song? Do you even play them?" 
Fortunately, no. But oftentimes, the fight songs CD comes around to our current opponent's tune. Why fire up the visiting fans by playing their fight song over the loudspeak­er? It makes no sense. 
Furthermore, the fight songs CD includes Michigan's "The Victors" and USC's "Fight On," two songs that most people agree should be played as little as possible at Notre Dame Stadium. Yet every week our 
P.A. system belts them out before the game. . 
I haven't even gotten to the worst part yet. The songs on the CD are not only not played by our very own Band of the Fighting Irish, they are played by MICHIGAN'S BAND. I know because, being a col­lege football geek, I own that CD. 
If you don't believe me, listen to the way "The Victors" sounds on it, if you can bear it. It's loud, it's played well and the band sings. 
This travesty needs to end now. For the Stanford game on Saturday, the powers that be in the press box should put a Notre Dame band CD in, playing our numerous school songs on a loop. 
It won't make the stadium partic­ularly intimidating, but at least Purdue fans won't start cheering because of it. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd. edu. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU WON A MILLION DOLLARS, WHAT WOULD YOU BUY FIRST? 






Brett Perkins  Heather Keane  Jessica Lau  Joe Murphy  Stephanie Kalchik  Steve McClure  
Campus Mininstry  junior Welsh Family  junior Lyons  junior Carroll  sophomore Badin  junior Stanford  
"Religious icons  "A green dress,  ':4 national  ':4fur coat, but  "Four million  "Love."  
and large  but not a real  championship  not a real fur  gumballs. "  

supplies of green dress -for the football coat-that's bacon." that's cruel." team." cruel." 

School gives detention to parents of late kids 
NEW YORK-A public school is requiring deten­tion for parents who get their kids to school late. 
Under the new rule at the Manhattan School for Children, parents who don't drop off their chil­dren by 8:25 a.m. have to pick up late slips from the principal's office and go to the auditorium to serve 20 minutes of detention with them. 
"The parents need to make the breakfast, get the children dressed and get them to school on time," principal Susan 
Rappaport told the New York Post for Sunday's editions. 
Some tardy parents at the school, which has 660 pupils in kindergarten through eighth grade, complained the detention made them late for work. But others approved, say­ing they felt humiliated and won't show up late again. 
Woman accused of swinging axe at husband 
LACONIA, N.ll. -A Laconia woman is charged with going after her husband this weekend with an axe. The husband reported that during a heated argument Sunday evening, Linda Masse, 50, chased him through their house with an axe, swung it at him and missed, shattering a glass door. 
He said he went to a neighbor's house for help and that his wife tried to get in, with the axe, but couldn't. She accused of bashing his car, then struggling with police. 
Masse is charged with attempted assault, resist­ing arrest and criminal mischief. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
::c 
=c 
LLI 
== 
...I 


~ 
< 
(.) 
0 

HIGH 80 HIGH 65 HIGH 67 HIGH 70
.... 

LOW 68 LOW 58 LOW 45 LOW 50 
IN BRIEF 

All are invited to register for the the Africa Faith and Justice Network's "Africa's Children: Peril and Promise" Wednesday at the Kroc Institute. The con­ference will run all day and fea­ture a panel discussion, and keynote speaker Archbishop John Baptist Odama of Gulu, Uganda. 
Registration is $150 but the event is free for students and Notre Dame faculty not attend­ing the African meal. 
The film "Beloved" will be shown Wednesday in 116 DeBartolo as part of the Gender Studies Program's "Body & Soul -Gender, Religion & Identity" film series. 
The Paul Taylor Dance Company will present classic works of choreographer Paul Taylor Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $48 for the general public, $40 for faculty, staff and seniors and $15 for students. 
Campus Mininstry will spon­sor Theology on Tap: "Can Catholic and Muslims Get Along?" at 8:30 p.m. Wednesday at Legends. The guest speaker will be A. Rashied Omar of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Lewis Hall will host a blood drive from 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Thursday in the party room of Lewis. The blood will support the South Bend Medical Foundation Central Blood Bank. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 
~ 

~ 
HIGH 75 HIGH 80 LOW 53 LOW 58 
Atlanta 88 I 56 Boston 73 I 60 Chicago 83 I 64 Denver 84 I 51 Houston 94 I 69 Los Angeles 73 I 59 Minneapolis 80 I 62 New York 78 I 64 Philadelphia 80 I 61 Phoenix 97 I 77 Seattle 59 I 49 St. Louis 91 I 69 Tampa 93 I 73 Washington 82 I 60 
Tuesday, October 3, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Tae K won Do granted club status 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of 
Governance members discussed 
campus issues and awarded club 
status to the World Tao Kwon Do 
Federation at their meeting 
Monday night. 
Two weeks ago BOG did not vote on whether it would award club status to the group because mem­~nrs did not feel they had enough information on what role Saint Mary's had in the Notre Dame­
basnd club. 
Members of the club returned 
Monday to clarify that the group 
wanted to be an officially recog­
nized club at Saint Mary's because 
it would provide recognition on 
campus for students who wanted 
to join. 
They also said while they would 
prefer to hold practices on Saint 
Mary's campus, they realize there 
is no facility available on campus 
to practice safely. A'> a result, they 
will continue practicing at Notre 
Dame. 
Tri-campus commissiOner 
Alanna Chiefari said it seemed like 
the group had examined the situa­
tion and motioned to grant the fed­
eration club status. The motion 
was passed. 
In other BOG news: 
+Student body president Susan 
Mcllduff told the board that the 
Regina Hall pool has been perma­
nently closed. 
"[Originally] the pool was going to be reopened, but it wa..o; in such bad condition that to refurbish it [it would cost too much money]," Mcllduii said. . 

Mclldufi also said the abundance of raccoons on campus has been noticed, and is being dealt with. 
"We're hoping if we move the garbage cans, especially the ones by the tennis court and in front of LeMans, that the raccoons may find a new home," she said. 
+Student Services commission­er Kelly Maus reported that she had met with Barry Bowles, the director of Sodexho, the company that provides food service for the College. 
Maus said students are interest­ed in nutrition facts and what is actually in each section of the din­ing hall. 
"There's actually a nutrition counter [online] of everything that the dining hall serves," Maus said. 
On the site, students can make a page laying out everything they have eaten during a week and find out how many calories they ate, among other things. Maus is work­ing to get a link to the Web site on the Saint Mary's home page so that it is more easily accessible. 
Maus also talked to Bowles about the possibility of having alternatives to Dalloway's pasta bar, which was introduced last year. 
"''m going to work with him [to find] options that are feasible for [Sodexho]," Maus said. 
+The Sophomore Oass Board is selling "SMC loves Football" T­shirts at dinner all this week. The shirts cost $5, and sophomore class president Francesca Johnson hopes students will wear the shirts when they go to the Army pep rally that Saint Mary's is hosting. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintrnarys.edu 

Squirrel causes power outages 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
News Ediror 

Nearly 50 percent of Notre Dame's campus temporarily lost power Saturday less than one hour before kickoff for the home football game against Purdue. 
American Electric Power (AEP). the public utility company that provides nearly 50 percent of Notre Dame's power, had a failure at a substation on the west side of South Bend caused by a squirrel, Director of Utilities Paul Kempf said. 
A transmission line serv­ing that substation and Notre Dame's substation was opened, which caused the brief outage, Kempf said. 
The power outage began at around 1:45 p.m. and lasted for 15 to 20 minutes, Kempf said. 
Various buildings on cam­pus, including several resi­dence halls and LaFortune Student Center, lost power. Kempf did not have an exact list of affected loca­tions. 
"When such an incident occurs, our service from AEP is interrupted, causing a power outage," he said. "Subsequently, in order to protect the power plant and the balance of the electrical load that it serves, the University must automati­cally shed load [equal to what is lost]." 
Kempf said the outage did not have any effect on scheduled football activities since there are multiple protections on the system to protect Notre Dame Stadium during large events. 
"Our load shedding scheme takes into consider­ation that there is a game and we protect the feeders that serve the stadium," he said. 
Though normally the utili­ties department prioritizes which buildings on campus get power back first ­depending on the time of day, day of the week or spe­cial events -Kempf said there was no need to priori­tize Saturday because it was not a protracted outage. 
AEP has a history of zero to three such outages a year caused by weather or equip­ment failures, Kempf said. 
"The reliability of the 138 kV line that serves the University is very good. as in the recorded history of the line there has never been an outage of the line greater than the reclosure cycle," he said. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 




Saint Mary's Study Abroad Fair 
Wednesday, October 4th, 2006 4:30-6:30 p.m. SMC Student Center Atrium 

All Saint Mary's, Notre Dame, and Holy Cross Students Are Welcome! 
Semester Programs Summer Programs 
·Rome, Italy ·Environments of ·Dijon, France Ecuador ·Maynooth, Ireland ·Internship in the 
European Union
·Semester Around the ·European Study

World Program
·Seville, Spain ·Greece Study Tour

·lnnsbruck, Austria 
·Korean Culture Study

·Fremantle, Australia 
·Honduras Service
·Women's Studies in 
LearningEurope 

•Pietermaritzburg, South Africa 


page 4 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, October 3, 2006 
Enter to win a free IPod! 




Learn more about the program and application details! 
Enter to win a free IPod! 

_________________:___:______________________ 


ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, October 3, 2006 CorvtP!LED FRO/vi THE OBSERVER'S Wl RE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Presidential election goes to runoff 
SAO PAULO, Brazil-Former Sao Paulo Gov. Geraldo Alckmin forced a presidential runoff election by capitalizing on Brazilians' anger over scandals that reached ever-closer to President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva. 
Alckmin -who like Silva spent Monday plotting strategy with his advisers -is now within striking distance of an upset victory Oct. 29. But whether Brazilians are ready to give up on their first working­class president remains to be seen. 
A balding anesthesiologist widely known for sleep-inducing campaign speeches, Alckmin lacks the passion Silva has brought to the job. Nicknamed "chuchu"' -after a flavorless green vegetable -he is strong in Brazil's industrialized south. but has relatively little support among the poor and working classes. 
Man scales Prime Minister's fence 
LONDON -A man who scaled the back fence of Prime Minister Tony Blair's resi­dence on Downing Street was charged Monday with assault on a police officer and possession of a knife, authorities said. 
The 32-year-old man, who was arrested Sunday night, struggled briefly with police before he was pinned and handcuffed, said a Metropolitan Police spokeswoman, speaking on condition of anonymity in line with department policy. 
Police said Byung Jin Lee tried to lunge at an officer but was not wielding the large kitchen knife found in his posses­sion. The man, who has no fixed address, was to appear in court in central London on Tuesday morning. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Supreme Court rejects Nazi appeal 
WASHINGTON -A former Nazi concen­tration camp guard lost a Supreme Court appeal on Monday over the government's decision to revoke his U.S. citizenship. 
Justices declined to review the case of John Hans!, a member of the SS Death's Head battalion that guarded concentra­tion camps at Sachsenhausen near Berlin in 1943 and Natzweiler in France in 1944. 
Hans!, who lives in Des Moines, Iowa, sought to distinguish his case from other former Nazi camp guards by arguing he did not hide his wartime past when he asked for a visa to enter the United States in the mid-1950s or personally assist in persecution. 
Court upholds FBI polygraph test 
WASHINGTON -The FBI and Secret Service may keep using lie-detector tests to screen potential employees, a federal judge ruled Monday. 
U.S. District Judge Emmet G. Sullivan's ruling ends a six-year lawsuit brought by six applicants who failed polygraph tests and were denied jobs. They said the policy vio­lated their rights to privacy and due process. 
The Secret Service has required polygraph tests for potential agents since 1985. All FBI employees have been tested since 1994. 
Applicants are asked questions about their medical histories, finances, sex lives, drug use and mental health. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Activists seek to block 1-69 extention 
MARTINSVILLE, Ind. -Environmental activists who have long opposed the state's plans to extend Interstate 69 through southwestern Indiana sued the federal gov­ernment and state highway commissioner Monday, seeking to block the nearly $2 bil­lion project before construction begins. 
The lawsuit, filed in U.S. District Court in Indianapolis, asks a judge to issue an injunction to halt planning and design work on the Indianapolis-to-Evansville highway project, construction of which is tentatively scheduled to begin in the sum­mer of 2008. 
Gunman attacks Amish school 
Truck driver kills three, then himself in one-room Pennsylvania schoolhouse 
Associated Press  
ICKEL MINES, Pa. -A  
milk-truck driver carrying  
two guns and a grudge  
stormed a one-room Amish  
schoolhouse Monday, sent  
the boys and adults outside,  
barricaded the doors with  
two-by-fours, and then  
opened fire on a dozen girls,  
killing three of them before  
committing suicide.  
It was the nation's third  
deadly 'school shooting in less  
than a week, and it sent  
shock waves through  
Lancaster County's bucolic  
Amish country, a picturesque  
landscape of horse-drawn  
buggies, green pastures and  
neat-as-a-pin farms, where  
violent crime is virtually non­ 
existent.  
Seven other victims were  
taken to hospitals. Most were  
badly wounded; most had  
been shot, execution-style, at  
point-blank range, after  
being lined up along the  
chalkboard, their feet bound  
with wire and plastic ties,  
authorities said.  
'This is a horrendous, hor­ 
rific incident for the Amish  
community. They're solid cit­ 
izens in the community.  
They're good people. They  
don't deserve ... no one  
deserves this," State Police  
Commissioner Jeffrey B. AP  
Miller said. Reporters surround an Amish man in his horse drawn buggy near the site of the  
The attack bore similarities schoolhouse shooting in which three girls were killed in Nickel Mines, Penn. Monday.  
to a deadly school shooting  
last week in Bailey, Colo.,  Roberts had left several  Reporters were kept away  there's no safe place. There's  
and authorities there raised the possibility that the Pennsylvania attack was a copycat crime.  rambling notes to his wife and three children that Miller said were "along the lines of suicide notes." The  from the school after the shooting, and the Amish were reluctant to speak with the media, as is their custom.  really no such thing," he said. The shooting took place at the one-room West Nickel  
The gunman, Charles Carl  gunman also called his wife  The victims were members  Mines Amish School, a neat  
Roberts IV, a 31-year-old  during the siege by cell  of the Old Order Amish.  white building set amid  
truck driver from the nearby town of Bart, was bent on  phone to tell her he was get­ting even for a long-ago  Lancaster County is home to some 20,000 Oid Order  green fields, with a square white horse fence around the  
killing young girls as a way of "acting out in revenge for  offense, according to Miller. As rescue workers and  Amish, who eschew automo­biles, electricity, computers,  schoolyard. The school had about 25 to 30 students, ages  
something that happened 20 years ago," Miller said. Miller gave no details on what the  investigators tromped over the surrounding farmland, looking for evidence around  fancy clothes and most other modern conveniences, live among their own people, and  6 to 13. According to investigators, Roberts dropped his children  
grudge was.  this tiny village about 55  typically speak a German  off at the school bus stop,  
Roberts was not Amish and apparently had nothing against the Amish communi­ty, Miller said. Instead, Miller  miles west of Philadelphia, dozens of people in tradition­al plain Amish clothing watched ­the men in light­ dialect known as Pennsylvania Dutch. Bob Allen, a clerk at a bookstore in the Amish coun­ backed his truck up to the Amish school. unloaded a shotgun, an automatic hand­gun and several pieces of  
said, he apparently picked  colored shirts, dark pants  try tourist town of  ·lumber, and walked in  
the school because it was  and broad-brimmed straw  Intercourse, said residents  around 10 a.m. He released  
close by, there were girls  farmer's hats, the women in  see the area as being safe  about 15 boys, a pregnant  
there, and it had little or no  bonnets and long dark dress­ and the Amish as peaceful  woman and three women  
security.  es.  people. "It just goes to show  with babies, Miller said.  

GAZA STRIP 

Renewed battles kill two in·Gaza 
Associated Press 
Gunbattles erupted Monday night between Fatah gunmen and Hamas militiamen in the southern Gaza town of Rafah, killing two people and wounding 14 a day after a deadly explosion of internal vio­lence paralyzed the Gaza Strip. 
The fighting was the latest in a series of sporadic battles over the past two days as tensions remained high between the two groups. Fatah militants enforced a general strike in many West Bank towns in a show of strength against Hamas, while the Hamas­led government ordered all min­
istries closed to protest Fatah attacks on government buildings. 
But there was less violence Monday compared to the chaos and running street battles that killed eight people and wounded 100 others across Gaza a day ear­lier. 
In an effort to reduce friction, Hamas pulled its militiamen out of Gaza's major streets Monday and sent them back to their posts. 
"Gaza today is better, and mov­ing toward calm," Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh of Hamas told his Cabinet on Monday afternoon, but said he feared violence in the West Bank, where Fatah militants threatened to retaliate for the Gaza fighting. 

"We reiterate to our people to be responsible, not to spread the cir­cle of disagreements and conflict, and not to transfer events to other parts of the nation," Haniyeh said. 
Hours after he spoke, Fatah gun­men marched through Rafah to protest the Hamas-led government and its militia, witnesses said. When they approached a militia post, a gunbattle broke out, and five people were wounded, one seriously, they said. 
The fighting ended after Hamas and Fatah officials called on their supporters to back down. 
0 •
. 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, October 3, 2006 
Retention 
continued from page 1 
retention rate at Saint Mary's by examining the reasons why some students decide to leave before they reach their sopho­more year, said Vice President of Enrollment Management Dan Meyer. 
The Committee will meet at the end of October and, addi­tionally, two or three times each semester, Meyer said. 
'The committee wasn't creat­ed because there is a crisis, but with the caliber of Saint Mary's students, the numbers should be better," Meyer said. "Our goal is 90 percent, which is only about a three point increase." 
This is a much more realistic goal than perfect retention, Meyer said. 
"One-hundred percent [reten­tion] is ideal, but impractical because some students come for the wrong reasons," he said. 
Meyer and the committee will investigate why students leave Saint Mary's, the types of stu­dents who choose to leave and what aspects of the College have a positive impact on retention -which is the hard­est question to answer, Meyer said. 
"We have no good handle yet because the College hasn't bro­ken it down," he said. "This question is the hardest one to answer because the informa­tion is anecdotal." 
Meyer said he does not think there is any correlation between the decreasing num­ber of women's colleges in America and the amount of stu­dents transferring from Saint Mary's. 
"The quality of Saint Mary's students and their capacity to succeed is completely inde­pendent of the shrinking num­ber of single sex schools," he said. 
Still, at a small school like Saint Mary's, losing students from year to year can be espe­cially taxing, Meyer said. 
"Losing women translates into a loss of revenue for the school. It is offset a bit from women transferring in, but it is still a problem," he said. "What is more problematic is that the time and resources used in recruiting the women are lost." 
But Saint Mary's is transfer­friendly, Meyer said. The school welcomed 38 new transfer stu­dents last year alone. One of them was senior Courtney Johnson, who transferred to Saint Mary's last year from Ohio State. What attracted her most to the College was its size. 
"Ohio State was too big and I didn't know my professors. Here, my professors give out their home phone numbers," she said. "[Professors] are so helpful here and I know I am getting a better education." 
lf the College can boost its retention rate -and keep attracting transfer students like Johnson -overall enrollment will increase, which is a long­term goal of College President Carol Ann Mooney's adminis­tration. 
During the next three years, Saint Mary's hopes to increase the student body to 1,600 women. Currently, enrollment is 1,527. 
"If we have three consecutive freshman classes with 400 to 410 women, we will meet this goal," Meyer said. 
"However, we must maintain the retention rate we have now." 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO1@saintmarys.edu 
FRANCE 
Consortium planned to enrich Iranian uranium 
Associated Press 
PARIS -Iran has proposed that France create a consortium to enrich Tehran's uranium, say­ing that could satisfY internation­al demands for outside oversight of the nudear program. 
Mohammad Saeedi, deputy chief of Iran's Atomic Energy Agency, made the proposal in an interview with French radio in Tehran, suggesting two French nuclear manufacturers as possi­ble partners in the consortium. 
"To be able to arrive at a solu­tion, we have just had an idea. We propose that France create a consortium for the production in Iran of enriched uranium," Saeedi told France-Info in the interview broadcast Tuesday. 
"That way France, through the companies Eurodif and Areva, could control in a tangible way our enrichment activities," he added. 
Areva is a state-controlled company with. activities in sever­al countries. Eurodif has a urani­um enrichment plant in France and has worked with Iran before. 
Neither company could be reached for comment early Tuesday. 
Tehran says it has 50 tons of UF-6 gas, the feedstock for enrichment, in Eurodifs uranium enrichment plant in France but has not been allowed to use it. 
Iran ignored a U.N. Security Council deadline in August to suspend uranium enrichment or face possible sanctions. 
France, a veto-wielding mem­ber of the Security Council, is among countries leading the push to stop Iran's nuclear activi­ties. 

France is also one of the world's most nuclear-dependent countries, relying on atomic reactors for about 75 percent of its electricity. 
Russia sought to defuse the dis­pute with Iran by offering to con­duct all of Iran's enrichment on Russian soil, but Tehran has refused. Moscow says it has worked out a deal with Iran for all the plant's spent fuel to be sent to Russia, eliminating the possibility that Iran could reprocess it for weapons. 
Fulls ahead. 
We remove the barriers, so you can accelerate your career. We've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. At Ernst &Young, we're recognized for our inclusive culture that expects everyone to contribute and everyone to grow. Stop just long enough to visit us on campus, or at ey.com/us/careers. 
FORTUNEO! 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ TOWO~KFOR~ 

Quality In Everything We Do 
Tuesday, October 3, 2006 



Dow 

11,670.35 -8.72
}ones 

Up: Some: Down: Composite Vo/Ut7Je; I ,4 73 162 1,179 2,164,124.110 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
-1.25 -0.51 40.14 
INTEL CP (INTC) -0.63 -0.13 20.44 

SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 

+1.01 +0.05 5.00 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 
+0.04 +0.01 27.36 JDS UN I PHASE CP ODSU) 
+ 1.37 +0.03 2.22 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE -0.32 -0.015 4.618 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.000 4.760 30-YEAR BOND -0.13 -0.006 4.761 5-YEAR NOTE -0.63 -0.029 4.558 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.88 61.03 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) -0.90 603.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -l.58 90.45 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
117.6450 EURO 
0.7847 POUND 
0.5302 CANADIAN$ I I I ~7 
IN BRIEF 
Stocks close lower for second session 
NEW YORK -Stocks closed lower for the sec­ond straight session Monday after the Dow Jones industrial average flirted briefly early in the day with its all-time high close. 
After also making an attempt to reach its record trading high of 11,750.28 set in January 2000, the Dow slipped 8.72, or 0.07 percent, to 11,670.35, according to preliminary figures. Broader indexes were also lower. 
On Thursday, and again Monday, the Dow rose above its higest-ever closing level of 11,722.98 before retreating. But trading was volatile as some market players were out for the Yom Kippur holiday; traders said that may have weighed on stocks. 
The markets mostly shrugged off the day's eco­nomic data, which presented a mixed picture of the economy. And stocks were helped, at least initially, by falling oil prices. A barrel of light crude settled at $61.03, down $1.88, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Oil prices have fallen more than 20 percent since July, helping drive gains in stocks in the third quarter. 
Judge refuses corruption charges 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. -The federal judge who presided over the trial of former Gov. Don Siegelman and ex-HealthSouth CEO Richard Scrushy refused on Monday to throw out their convictions on government corruption charges. 
U.S. District Judge Mark Fuller ruled there was "substantial evidence" to support the convictions. 
Scrushy's attorney, former state Supreme Court Justice Terry Butts, said he was not discouraged. "There are still a number of different motions the judge has yet to rule on, and we are confident that Richard Scrushy will be vindicated," he said in a statement. 
A jury convicted Siegelman and Scrushy in June of bribery and conspiracy charges after a two-month trial. Prosecutors said Scrushy arranged $500,000 in contributions to Siegelman's campaign for a statewide lottery in exchange for being appointed by Siegelman to a seat on an influential hospital regulatory board. 
Siegelman also was convicted on an obstruction of justice count that did not involve Scrushy. 
Lawyers for Scrushy and Siegelman had asked for the convictions to be overturned, saying there was a lack of evidence. But the judge disagreed. 
TI···IE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Holiday sales buzz starts early 
Toy sellers already scramble to get hot toys, apparel stores thinking positively 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -A warning to procrastinators: Better shop early if you want the must-have holiday gifts. 
Already, toy sellers like Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Toys R Us Inc. and KB Toys Inc., are scrambling to get their hands on more hot toys, particularly T.M.X. Elmo from Mattei Inc.'s Fisher­Price, whose better-than­expected sales are making it increasingly likely to be the must-have toy for the sea­son. 
In yet another encourag­ing sign of consumers' will­ingness to spend, Scott McCall, chief toy officer at Wal-Mart, noted that high­priced toys like $249 red Mustangs under Mattei's Powerwheels brand are sell­ing fast early in the season, something that he hasn't seen in five years. 
And Michael Gould, chair­man and CEO of Federated Department Store Inc.'s Bloomingdale's, reported strong sales of fall merchan­dise in September, which could only bode well for hol­iday apparel. 

"There is no question that business is better. It has been a strong September," Gould said. "Apparel busi­ness has been good, the shoe business has been out­standing. There is a better feel out there." Shopping Centers. That's adjusting to possible gains," rebound in consumer confi­
Such encouraging signs higher than Niemira's origi­said Dan Butler, vice presi­dence in September, but the are helping to lift the spirits nal 3 percent forecast. dent of retail operations at survey showed consumers' of many retailers, who only Same-store sales are sales the National Retail lingering concerns about the this summer planned for at stores opened at least a Federation. "But they are job market. Employment modest gains in holiday year. One exception will be not going overboard. Gas showed modest gains in inventory as they worried Wal-Mart, which estimated prices could always go back August, with wages barely about how soaring gasoline on Saturday that same-store up." up, according to the latest prices and rising interest sales were up a disappoint­And other big challenges job report. rates would curtail gift-buy­ing 1.8 percent in still remain. One big worry Consumers have remained ing. In recent weeks, falling September from the year­is the deteriorating housing resilient throughout the gasoline prices, receding ago period, when it benefit­market. In the last few year, despite rising gasoline mortgage rates and a ed from a spending spree years, a booming housing prices. Still, there have been rebounding stock market tied to preparing for and market and record-low some signs of consumer have helped to perk up con­recovering from the hurri­interest rates spurred strain in recent store sales sumer demand and ease canes. spending as consumers reports. Wal-Mart has merchants' worries about Still, merchants are being tapped into their rising blamed rising prices at the the holiday season. cautious as they adjust some home equity. Still, the recent pump for slowing sales this 
Stores are expected to holiday orders, so con­pause in interest rate hikes year. J.C. Penney Co. Inc., report a strong same-store sumers won't see the same by the Federal Reserve which generally pleases sales gain of about 4 percent level of generous deals as should offer some relief to Wall Street, reported disap­for September on Thursday, they did a year ago and pro­shoppers. pointing sales in August, according to Michael P. crastinators won't find the Meanwhile, the New York­dragged down by slower Niemira, chief economist at goods they want. based Conference Board demand for big purchases The International Council of "Yes, (stores) may be reported last week a like furniture. 

Harrah's gets $15 billion buyout offer 
Associated Press Harrah's said it had not commit­Analyst Rod Petrik of Stifel 
ted to the deal, but it established a Nicolaus said Harrah's shares had 
LAS VEGAS Harrah's special committee of independent been relatively cheaper than its 
Entertainment received a $15.05 directors to review the offer and peers in the casino business for 
billion offer for the company from retained UBS Securities LLC as an several reasons, "perhaps none 
two private-equity firms in what adviser. more important than its inability to 
would be the biggest deal ever for The company did not respond to crack into the growing Asian gam­
a casino operator and the fifth­calls for comment. ing markets." 
largest leveraged buyout in history. Harrah's operates about 40 casi­Gambling companies' shares also 
Harrah's said Monday that Apollo nos throughout the country, includ­appeared cheaper than shares in 
Management and Texas Pacific ing Caesars Palace in Las Vegas, other sectors, providing a prime 
Group are offering $81 per share and other casinos under the names target for private equity investors, 
in cash, a 22 percent premium to Ballys, Horseshoe and Showboat. he said in a research note. 
Harrah's closing stock price Friday The Las Vegas-based company Celeste Brown of Morgan Stanley 
on the New York Sto.ck Exchange. beefed up its portfolio with last said the benefit of a possible deal 
Harrah's shares surged $9.25, or year's purchase of Caesars would be in managing and expand­
13.9 percent, to close at $75.68 on Entertainment Inc., giving it an ing the Harrah's network of casi­Monday on the New York Stock upscale offering on the Las Vegas nos rather than selling off the Exchange. Strip. parts. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, October 3, 2006 
While women's colleges like to a co-ed institution. Junior Kirsten Forney said the study and used data from a Randolph-Macon in "Saint Mary's College is the integration of males into a National Survey of Student
Co-ed 
Lynchburgh, Va., Regis College incorporated as a 'Roman college threatens campus Engagement Institute for continued from page 1 outside Boston and Wells Catholic institution for women, atmosphere and collegiate tra­Effective Educational Practice. 
College in upstate New York providing higher education in dition. The data collected from the took the SAT last year said they have started admitting men, the liberal arts tradition,"' "It is easier to make friends survey assessed the education­would consider applying to a Dampeer said the option to go Vihtelic said. "[It] was founded in [an all female environ­al practices of students and women's college. co-ed "never comes up" within in 1844 by the Sisters of the ment]," Forney said. "Girls showed that students at 
But these facts don't worry Saint Mary's administration. Holy Cross for the education of would act completely different women's colleges "spend more Susan Dampeer, Saint Mary's But that was not the case in female students. The College if there were guys in the class­time on productive activities executive assistant to the presi­the early 1970s, when Saint has always taken very seriously room." and gain more from their col­dent, who said the College's Mary's came close to merging its charge to educate women to Vice President of Student lege experience compared with endowment and record-break­with Notre Dame. The merger make a difference in the Affairs Karen Johnson said women at coeducational insti­ing freshman class size (426) was called off when the world." Saint Mary's women "have a tutions." will allow it to maintain its all­Congregation of the Sis.ters of While Dampeer said "it is an rich and varied student life, The research also concluded female identity. the Holy Cross felt Saint Mary's exciting time" to be at Saint and they don't seem to miss women's colleges foster a 
"It is nice to be in a position would have lost a great aspect Mary's, there is little doubt that anything not being co-ed." "challenging and interactive where we don't even have to of its identity should it combine the challenge to attract Johnson said the women at environment," instill a greater consider it," she said. with the University, Dampeer prospective students to a single the College become strong drive for success and create an 
College President Carol Ann said. sex school still exists. leaders, evident in roles College environment more conducive to Mooney rejected any idea of The effects of the near-merg­"Market forces have com­alumnae take on from serving collaborative learning. men's admittance to Saint er still linger in the minds of pelled many women's college to as members of Congress to suc­While committed to remain­Mary's during an Aug. 16 some students like sophomore go co-ed," Vihtelic said. cessful authors, lawyers and ing a single-sex institution, address to faculty and students. Shelby Mashburn, who said she "Simply put, the potential for teachers. Mooney is striving to increase Instead, Mooney called for "a wants the College to establish student enrollments doubles "It is hard to define what and stabilize enrollment. stronger national academic an identity completely separate when previously single-sex makes the environment at Saint "We should aim for total stu­reputation" to further the suc­from co-ed Notre Dame. schools admit men and Mary's so special," Dampeer dent enrollment of 1, 700 within cess of the College. Mashburn said she originally women." said, "but it is true we do some­five years," she said in her Aug. 
"We know that the number of chose the College because of its But the decision to go co-ed is thing uncommonly well. 16 address, adding that the high school graduates who will close proximity to the not an easy one -a fact made "Whether it is the small class continuation of Saint Mary's consider attending a women's University -particularly clear by recent protests, peti­size or the single sex environ­move in the "right direction" college is small," Mooney said. because it promised potential tions and boycotts at some sin­ment, I can say I have never can be achieved in ways other "We also know that with the for male interaction. gle sex colleges that chose to met a Saint Mary's alumna who than the termination of its sin­exception of Indiana. the four But her thoughts changed start admitting men. is not confident in what she gle-sex tradition. states in our primary market after just one year at the At Randolph-Macon, 300 stu­does." "One of the things I find most (Indiana, Michigan, Illinois and College. dents did not go to class and Students are not the only invigorating about Saint Mary's Ohio) are predicted to have "I don't like how [some peo­200 requested to transfer after ones who notice a difference of is that it is a place of inspira­shrinking populations of high ple] obsess over Notre Dame," the College announced plans to a single-sex education. A 2006 tion, a place that hungers to be school graduates. Mashburn said. "Now I wish admit men in September. study by the Indiana University better," Mooney said in her 
"If we do not work to improve Saint Mary's was in the middle "If males came here it would Center for Postsecondary forum address. "It is my intent our reputation and expand our of nowhere and in no way completely change what Saint Research (IUCPR) concluded to help us find ways io both market, we will face an uncer­linked to [Notre Dame]." Mary's is all about," Saint women's colleges were better feed that hunger and to keep us tain future." Jill Vihtelic, acting vice presi­Mary's senior Michelle Lonnee prepared than co-educational wanting more." 
The all-female future is one dent and dean of faculty, "sin­said. "I think there is a lot less institutions to serve the educa­thing that seems bright for the cerely doubts" the College will pressure around here without tional needs of their students. Contact Kelly Meehan at College, Dampeer said. ever again consider the switch guys." IUCPR researchers conducted kmeehaO1@saintmarys.edu 
Arrests 
continued from page 1 
tion," Johnson said. 
In addition, nine people were issued trespass notices "banning them from campus property." Most were issued for urinating in a public place or violating other University rules. Johnson said. 
One man was also arrested for trespassing while re-sell-. ing tickets on campus. 
Several notices were issued to people for selling mer­chandise on campus proper­ty, Johnson said. 
NDSP was assisted outside the stadium by Indiana State Excise Police, South Bend Police and St. Joseph County Police. 
Johnson did not specify whether preliminary breath tests (PBTs) were used or if police officers were in uni­form or plain-clothed. 
"NDSP will continue to work with other area police officials for next week's home football game against Stanford," he said. 
Johnson said that if football weekend festivities include the use of alcoholic bever­ages, Indiana laws should be followed. 
"Don't let alcohol get in the way of your safety or fun or keep you from enjoying a great football game," Johnson said. "Keep in mind that laws regarding the use of alcohol will be enforced and you are responsible for your conduct. 
"Law enforcement officers will arrest underage drinkers on campus and at tailgate parties." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
Bush to address rise in shootings 
President's administration plans to host conference on recent string of violent attacks 
Associated Press 
RENO, Nev. -The Bush administration will host a conference next week to dis­cuss the recent string of school violence across the country, the White House said Monday. 
Presidential spokeswoman Dana Perino said the confer­ence will bring together edu­cation and law enforcement officials to talk about the nature of the problem and federal action that can help communities prevent vio­lence and deal with its aftor­math. 
Three schools have been hit by deadly attacks in the past week. A gunman killed himself and three students Monday at a one-room Amish schoolhouse in Pennsylvania; on Friday a 15-year-old Wisconsin student shot and killed his principal; and last Wednesday a man took six girls hostage in Colorado, sexually assaulting them before fatally shooting one girl and killing himself. 
"The president is deeply saddened and troubled by the recent school violence and shootings that have taken place in different com­munities across America," Perino said. "It breaks America's collective heart when innocent children who are at school to learn are violently taken hostage and cut down in their own schools." 
Perino said the conference was still in the planning stages, so a specific date, location and other details were not ready to be announced. It was not clear 
whether President Bush would attend. 
Education Secretary Margaret Spellings, Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and Bush's domestic policy adviser, Karl Zinsmeister, met Monday at the White House to discuss the confer­ence. They met while the president was on a cross­country flight to begin a three-day fundraising trip for Republican candidates in the midterm election. 
Perino said participants on the education sid<1 would include groups like the National Parent Teacher Association. school principals and teachers' unions. The Federal Bureau of Investigations would be among those repres<1nting law enforcement, she said. 
Perino said the president plans to use his fundraising spree through Nevada, California, Arizona and Colorado to draw a clear line between Democrats and Republicans, particularly on the war on terror, as the campaign begins its final month. 
Bush began Monday evening at. an airport hangar in Reno, Nev., where a few hundred people who donated a combined $360,000 gath­ered to support Secretary of State Dean Heller's congres­sional campaign. Heller is up against Democrat Jill Derby for the seat being vacated by Hep. Jim Gibbons, who is running for governor. 
"I want you all to remem­ber when you go to the polls here in Nevada, what politi­cal party supported the pres­ident to make sure we have the tools necessary to protect the American people and which political party didn't," Bush said. 
Bush criticized some Democrats for voting against legislation authorizing war­rantless monitoring of phone calls and e-mails to detect terror plots and another bill that would allow_ tough inter­rogation of terror suspects. 
"It sounds like they think the best way to protect the American people is to wait until we're attacked again," Bush said. "That's not the way it's going to be under my administration." 
The donors paid $500 to attend the reception, held on a cement-floored hangar dec­orated with blue curtains, or $2.100 to also be pho-tographed with the president. 


Hepublicans have held the seat since it was created 25 years ago to represent more than 100,000 square miles ­nearly the entire state except for Las Vegas. Republicans hold an edge of more than 4 7,000 registered, mostly rural voters, but polls make it a close race. 
About 100 protesters ral­lied near the fundraiser, chanting, "Vote for change." 
"I think it's an indication of how desperate the Bepublicans have gotten to try to hang onto a seat that just a year ago was consid­ered a slam dunk for the Republicans," said Pam duPre, executive director of the Washoe County Democratic Party. 
Tuesday, October 3, 2006 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Disgraced Florida congressn1an replaced 
Foley resigns after e-mail scandal surfaces, now seeks alcohol, behavioral treatments 

Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. Disgraced former Rep. Mark Foley sought treatment for alcoholism and "other behavioral problems" as Republicans on Monday picked a new candidate to salvage the seat Foley aban­doned after disclosure of lurid online messages he exchanged with teenage boys. 
State party leaders chose state Rep. Joe Negron to replace Foley in next month's election. Negron will receive votes cast for Foley, although Foley's name will remain on the ballot in the West Palm Beach district, which is largely Republican. 
"My job beginning immedi­ately is to get word out to all these absentee voters and to everyone else in this race that Hastert, R-Ill., told reporters in Washington. 
The scandal suddenly put Foley's seat up for grabs as Democrats seek a net gain of 15 Republican seats to retake power in the House. Foley, who had represented the district for 12 years, was regarded as a shoo-in for re­election before his resigna­tion. His name was to remain on the Nov. 7 ballot because the deadline had passed for revising the bal­lots. 
At least one prominent Florida Republican expressed pessimism about holding onto the seat. 
"It's a death sentence ... mission impossible," said former state Republican Party Chairman Tom Slade. "The only way you win is they (voters) have got to vote for Mark Foley. That doesn't 
you are not vot­ing for Mark Foley. You are voting for the  "[deeply regret and accept full responsibility for the  appear to me to be very attrac­tive." But state  
Republican nominee, and I'm not Mark  harm I have caused.,,  p a r t y spokesman Jeff Sadosky said  
Foley," Negron  the seat is too  
said. "I think it's something that can be done."  Mark Foley former Florida representative  important to surrender. "It's not going to be about yester- 
F  o  e  y  day's  news  no  

resigned Friday after reports matter how tragic and horri­surfaced that he sent sexual­fying," he said. ly explicit e-mails and Negron, standing beside a instant messages to male 1Oth grade son and 8th 
Panel 
continued from page 1 
Washingtonpost.com has experienced a surge in read­ership. 
"When you account for the new readers that go to Washingtonpost.com there are more people reading Washington Post journalism today than ever before in his­tory," LeDuc said. 
"The newspaper is not dead, but I think they are struggling and trying to fig­ure out their future. I will say that newspapers continue to help set the national news agenda for the country." 
Dwyer agreed with LeDuc, noting that print journalism is experiencing the challenge of "how to marry two worlds" and find a balance between traditional print journalism and continuously updated news on the Internet. 
The future of newspapers, Dwyer said, will be in strengthening the traditional newspaper while simultane­ously investing in the Internet. 
"Don't ever underestimate the old and 
"Journalists, whether they work for newspapers, maga­zines, online sites or TV sta­tions, will hav!) to develop a true understand­
the lished best  estab­... the news  "Don ,t ever underestimate the  ing of customer news and infor­mation needs.  
sites  in  old and the  "Journalists  
America are newspaper sites," he  established ... the best news sites in  will have to adapt according­ly ... but without  
said.  America are  a  doubt over the  
Rather than focusing on  newspaper sites.,,  next 10 years, there will be a  
how news  is  great  need  for  
delivered,  Bill Dwyer  journalists who  
journalists must concen­trate on the  former sports editor Los Angeles Times  can report, write and communi­cate."  
content  of  The challenge  

their stories, McMeel said. for the journalist, McMeel 
"We need to think a lot said, "will be to learn how to harder about what consti­listen to the consumer, give tutes news," McMeel said. them what they want, and 

STUDY A5ROAD 
IN 
JAPAN 


INFORMATION SESSIONS 
find a way to deliver news and information that the con­sumer needs to know." 
Mitchell addressed newspa­per values as a key compo­nent of journalism that he believes must always remain part of the field, regardless of how the news is delivered. 
"Newspaper values are going to be what continue throughout the next 10 years," he said. 
"Whether news is distrib­uted on newsprint or through the Internet, newspaper val­ues of fairness and objectivi­ty, of enterprise reporting I hope are the sort of values, that prevail and affect in a good way." 
Contact Maureen Mullen at mmullenl@nd.edu 
teenage pages. He quickly went into seclusion and released a statement that he was seeking treatment. 
"Painfully, the events that led to my resignation have crystalized recognition of my long-standing significant alcohol and emotional diffi­culties," he said. "I strongly believe that I am an alco­holic and have accepted the need for immediate treat­ment for alcoholism and other behavioral problems." 
He added: "I deeply regret and accept full responsibility for the harm I have caused." 
Foley's attorney, David Roth, said Monday that his client checked into a treat­ment center Sunday night, 
but he would not "As a parent and identify the 
speaker of the
facility. Roth said Foley would House, I am be remain at the disgusted.,, center for at least 30 days. 
Dennis Hastert
The FBI is investigating House Speaker 
Foley's e-mails, as is the Florida Department of Law Enforcement. Foley, who is 52 and single, could be found to have violated a law that he helped write as co­chairman of the Congressional Missing and Exploited Children's Caucus. 
House Speaker Dennis Hastert said Monday that GOP leaders did not see Foley's Internet exchanges and that he would have demanded Foley's expulsion if he had known about them. "As a parent and speaker of the House, I am disgusted," 
grade daughter, became choked up when talking about Foley's actions. 
"I've had pages work in my office for years. I've seen pages go to Washington. I've seen the incredible opportu­nity that is," Negron said, his voice trailing off. He then put his hand over his face and struggled to continue talking. 
"It was very disturbing because I work with these young people," he said. 
The Democratic nominee is Tim Mahoney, a former Republican and financial adviser. He said Monday that his campaign would largely remain unchanged. 
"When people meet me and people know me, whether they're Democrats or Republicans, they get on board," he said. "They know that when I'm in Washington D.C., I'll be no nonsense and 

it's all going to be about results." 
Negron, an attorney who turns 45 next week, joined in the call to investigate who knew about the e-mails and when. Democrats have sug­gested House leaders tried to cover them up for political reasons. 
"We ought to investigate if people knew about inappro­priate, criminal e-mails and didn't take appropriate action," he said. "If that happened, they need to be punished." 
Thursday, October 5 

5-6 PM 125 Hayes-Healy 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE www.nd.edu/.vintlstud 
--------------------------~---~----------------~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT

page 10 Tuesday, October 3, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gorrumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CoNTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independ.ent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students of rhe University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial comenr, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeirher institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majority of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of rhe aurhors and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The OOOcrver (USPS 599 2-4000) is puhlished Monday rhrungh Friday except during exam Jnd v~rinn period~. A subscriptio-11 to The-Ohscrvcr is.$1110 for one aetdcmic year; $55 for Olll" semester. 
'{'h( Ohstrver is published a1: POSTMASTER 02-4 South Dining Hall Send addt~ corrections to: Now: Dame, IN 46556..0n9 The Ob$erver Periodical postage paid J.l Norrc Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 .$Quth Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN -465"56-0n9 
The Observer is a m<:mber ofthe Assod.utti Pr~. All ttproduction rights are 
'~­
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Mary Kate Jay Fitzpatrick Malone Dan Murphy Katie Kohler Chris Wilson Does Notre Dame need Katie McDonnell Scene to increase the number of Viewpoint Analise Lipari 
Catholic faculty members? 

Molly Kring Graphics Jeff Albert Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
'Liberal' is not a dirty word 
It may surprise some readers when I say that I am a liberal, and proud of it. Classiealliberalism holds liberty to be the ehief politieal virtue, and over the past two and a half eenturies, the liberal revo­lution has triumphed in the Western world and has made signifi­eant headway in almost every eorner of the earth. The revolu­tion I seek to advanee in this eolumn is the liberal revolution, whieh plaees the liber­ty of the individual first, expands virtue through the free llow of ideas rather than eoereion or indoetrina­tion, demands a minimal, restrained and effeetive government and plaees demands on individuals to pursue soda! justiee out of moral imperative rather than fear of their government. 
The foundation of the United States rests upon dassiealliberal ideas, and Ameriean eonservatism seeks to eonserve and expand the eore principles of the Ameriean liberal revolution. Aeeording to the Oxford Manifesto of the Jjberal International, liberalism seeks a soeiety eharaeterized by frnedom of thought for individuals, limitations on power, espe­eially of government and religion, the rule of law, the free exehange of ideas, a mar­ket eeonomy that supports relatively free private enterprise and a transparent sys­tem of government in whieh the righl<> of all eitizens are proteeted. 
In reeent years, a number of artides have been written lamenting the faet that the term liberal has beeome a dirty word in Ameriean polities. As early as 1988, former president George H. W. Bush deni­grated his Demoeratie opponent Miehael Dukakis, as a "northeastern liberal." Aeeording to Rieh Noyes, researeh diree­tor for the Media Researeh Center, "Reporters sort of agree with Demoerats that liberal is a dirty word, so they get very defensive when the word liberal is used." 
I stand among those who will attempt to 

Jonathan Klingler 
Forward the Revolution 
dear the term of il<> negative eonnota­tions. llowever, the first step I would have to take is to point out how little modern American liberalism has to do with the foundational underpinnings of liberalism as an ideology. I believe that the reason why the term liberal is held in sueh low esteem in this country is because those who wear the badge most proudly have taken up arms against its eornerstones, namely. freedom of thought, the rule of law and the right to own property. 
Liberals at many eollege eampuses aeross the eountry have enaetnd speech eodes whieh suppress or limit student voiees, threatening fines or expulsion for the expression of oflensive ideas. Simultaneously, modern American liber­als have sueeeeded in ereating hate erimes whieh enforee additional penalties on eriminals, not for violent acts, but for their motives f(Jr eommitting those acts. Though we all seek a more respeetful and loving society, penalizing individuals through eoercion for thoughts or words is not eonsistent with an ideology that sup­posedly is first and foremost committed to expanding liberty. 
In addition, the New Deal, the eolleetion of policies implemented by Pn~sident Hoosevelt to combat the Great Depression, is arguably the f(mndation of modern American liberalism. Unfortunately lor liberals of FDR's day, many of the programs of the New Deal were ruled unconstitutional by the Supreme Court beeause they exeeeded the powers given by the Constitution. The New Deal was only upheld in full after President Roosevelt threatened to "pack the eourt" with his supporters. The mod­ern federal welfare state, whieh is the foundation of modern Ameriean liberal­ism, was ereated by eonjuring up a new interpretation of the Constitution, and the theory of the living Constitution was an attempt to justify the praetiee. The rule of law holds that governmental authority is exereised legitimately only in aeeordanee with written and disdosed laws adopted and enforeed aeeording to aeeepted pro­eedure. The theory of the living Constitution, whieh is a pillar of modern Ameriean liberalism, is a threat to the rule of law beeause the Constitution eeas­es to be written or disdosed when it ean be aeeessed only through the endlessly ehanging prognostieations of an elite cadre ofjudges rather than through the document itself. 

Modern Ameriean liberals eonsistently pursue polieies whieh restrain the rights of individuals to engage in private enter­prise and hold property. Right or wrong. most modern American liberals believe that working families whom are better off should be eoerced by the government to transfer funds to other working families who make less. This belief shows up in the New Deal, thP Great SoeiPty and in opposition to welfare reform in the 1990s. Liberalism plaees the responsibility of that aetivity on individuals, and all people have the moral judgment to see that we have an obligation to give more than we ean to our neighbors who are hungry, cold and overworked. Social justiee ean be aehieved by arguing this fundamental truth through a free exehange or ideas. We ean ereate a beautiful eulture of vol­untary saerifiee, where eaeh of us expresses the great love to give up our­selves for our neighbors. However, liber­als ehoose to plaee foreed redistribution of wealth above liberty time and again. 
In short, the term liberal has gained a negative eonnotation in this eountry because modern American liberals have replaeed liberalism's foeus on liberty with a foeus on material equality and intellee­tual uniformity achieved by overpowering individual liberties through eoereion. That is the opposite of liberalism. To those of you who are angry that liberal has beeome a dirty word, eall yourselves pro­gressives or eall yourselves soeialists, but don't eall yourselves liberals. It no longer fits. 
Jonathan Klingler is a senior manage­ment consulting major and the President ofthe Notre Dame College Republicans. He currently resides in Keenan Hall and enjoys Tolstoy and Matlock. He can be contacted via e-mail atjklingle@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"J wanted a perfect ending. Now I've learned, the hard way, that some poems
Submit aLetter 

don't rhyme, and some stories don't have a clear beginning. middle and end. Life is about not knowing, having to change, taking the moment and making
to the Editor at I 

the best ofit, without knowinq, what's going to happen next. ' 
:1www.ndsmcobserver.com f: 
Gilda Radner actress 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT

Tuesday, October 3, 2006 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Keeping home field advantage 
As I begin my eighth season as the head coach of the women's soccer team here at Notre Dame, I cannot remem­ber a game that I was more proud of our team and student body as I was this past Friday night versus No. 6 ranked West Virginia. The atmosphere was electric, and we had our sec­ond largest attendance ever with 3,056 people watching our 3-1 come-from-behind victory. 
I've always wondered why we haven't been able to get a consistent support from our students here at Notre Dame, but Friday night you all turned out in force. I cannot thank Stanford and O'Neill Halls enough for their unwaver­ing support. You guys were sim­ply amazing! Trust me when I say that your support truly was a huge reason why we were able to fight back and win this game! Don't ever underestimate the impact that fans can make for a home team -and you guys certainly filled the bill. You clearly had the opposing goal­keeper rattled, as evidenced by her performance and actions dur­ing the game! 
Thank you so much on behalf of myself, my staff, and most importantly the team. For the first time they had the opportu­nity to play in front of over 6,000 people during the two games this past week, and we all greatly appreciate it. We have consistently set attendance records for our opposition on the road, being heckled at every stop. It was great to see us set our own records at home, and truly enjoy the home field advantage. 
It's my hope that the excitement created will continue, and that both our great men's and women's programs will start to see this become an event that you, the students, will not want to miss. With deepest gratitude, Go Irish! 
Randy Waldrum head women's soccer coach Oct.2 
Commercial concerns 
I completely disagree with Dr. Mick Connor's letter ("Walk the Walk?" Oct. 1) printed concern­ing the "desperate" housewives commercial aired on ABC dur­ing the Michigan State game. Just because the Notre Dame community of administration, students and alumni did not question an ABC television com­mercial does not indicate that the Notre Dame family is losing its moral values. 
Notre Dame is a unique school in that it prides itself on creat­ing students that desire to make a positive change in their world. I believe that almost every stu­dent contributes their part to create change. Whether they volunteer at a location in the South Bend community, support election issues that they feel support the ND community, or spend a summer or school break doing a service project, students develop positive moral traits that they continue to por­tray throughout their lives after ND. 
It is indeed a reality that the plotlines of modern television entertainment involve themes of deceit, violence and explicit sex­uality. The show that Dr. Connor refers to does involve some of these themes, yet does not remain far away from the majority of television and news programs present in the media today. Just as our parents may have watched murder mysteries 
unfounded 
and soap operas, today's culture may enjoy television shows such as the one advertised in the commercial. 
In fact, while living in my dorm last year, 15 to 20 girls would gather in our social space every Sunday evening to watch the "trash" that Connor believes is displayed by the program. The program conveniently ended right before our dorm's 10 o'clock Mass, to which many of the girls would attend. I high­ly doubt that by watching this fictional show my moral charac­ter, or the moral characters of my classmates, was questioned or compromised. 
If one's moral values could be compromised simply by watch­ing a television program, this could be prevented by simply NOT watching the show. If you do not want your children to be influenced, do not let them watch the program, or ask them to close their eyes during the "trashy" commercial. 
Although I understand that the commercial for this pro­gram, as well as the program itself, may offend some viewers, I maintain the belief that the airing of this commercial had no connection to our University, and was out of Notre Dame's control. The University did not directly endorse or display this commercial and therefore it is not a representation of what it believes. 

ABC understands that people all over the country watch the Notre Dame games, and there­fore this would probably be a perfect opportunity to advertise one of its most popular shows. When I think back to my experi­ence of watching the Michigan State game, I do not think of watching the "trashy" commer­cial. Instead I remember the rollercoaster of emotions I felt as our team made a spectacular comeback to win the game. It is a shame that one could let a sin­gle television commercial spoil an entire experience of watch­ing our team pull through to vic­tory. 
Notre Dame has greater issues to attend to than whining and wasting time complaining about a television commercial. Everyday the university has to make countless decisions to bet­ter the educational and athletic experiences of students at the university. 
To answer Connor's question, yes, we are ND. And we will still be ND, whether we are watch­ing a television commercial or watching our team fight for vic­tory. And yes, we will still be ND as we retain our moral charac­ter and "walk the walk" of posi­tively changing the world. 
Brittany Gragg junior off campus Oct. 2 

U-WIRE 
New voter ID bill too restrictive 
The U.S. House of Representatives recent­support the notion of requiring photo identi­ly passed a bill that would require voters to fication at voting stations, we oppose the show photo identification that proves citi­requirement that the identification also zenship in all federal elections. This bill rep­proves citizenship. Showing a photo identifi­resents an important step in preventing cation like a driver's license or a state voter fraud and ensur­issued identification card is no imposition
Staff Editorial 
ing that only U.S. citi­on voters' rights and is a smart measure to zens are casting votes in ensure the identity of voters. 
Daily Campus 
elections. While the idea The issue of establishing whether or not a
University of
of presenting identifica­voter is a citizen should be done during the 
Connecticut
tion has become quite voter registration process. Currently the common in our every-only way of determining your citizenship day lives, this bill will be restrictive by status is by checking yes or no on the voter requiring photo identification to also prove registration form to the question, "Are you citizenship. a U.S. citizen?" This is a very unwise 
There are countless situations such as method and citizenship should be estab­withdrawing money from a bank and pay­lished at town hall when you register to ing by check in which we are very comfort­vote. This would allow the use of multiple able providing a photo identification. While forms of identification to prove and ensure it is a simple concept to hash out, the idea of a voter's citizen status. A license and a birth a photo identification is to prove that you certificate would be a good example to are who you claim to be. This is very impor­prove citizenship that would not disenfran­tant in elections. We have many election chise voters. There are a number of docu­laws and it is important to establish your ments that in combination serve to prove identity before you cast a vote. Election offi­citizenship such as social security cards, cials need to know who you are to ensure birth certificates and naturalization papers. that you are registered to vote and so that Prudent identification of citizenship during . you only vote once. registration is the wisest way to enslire that 
The controversial part of this bill requires a voter is a citizen. Then a simple photo that your photo identification also proves identification could be used at the voting citizenship. The only form of identification station to verify the voter's identity. that meets this requirement is a U.S. pass­port. Currently, only 25 percent of U.S. citi­This column originally appeared in the zens have a U.S. passport, which costs $97 Oct. 2 issue ofthe Daily Campus, the daily to obtain. Legislators who oppose this bill publication at the University ofConnecticut. believe that the effort and cost involved in The views expressed in this column are obtaining a passport will disenfranchise the those ofthe author and not necessarily poor, the elderly and the disabled. While we those ofThe Observer. 
Bringing the war home 
If there's one thing that's been con­trouble even functioning in the chaos of spicuously absent from the headlines Iraq. It's all too easy to turn our heads recently, with the Congressional mid­away in comfort, ignoring the slide into term elections just weeks away, it's America's next Vietnam. been the war in Iraq. That's because War puppeteers, like our own cow­this mid-term elec­boy in the White House, always create 
Staff Editorial 

tion won't change hierarchies of expendability. The brass much on the ground in Washington courageous enough to 
Daily Texan

there, where tens of stand on a bank of computers and
University of

thousands of troops order men into battle, as Stephen
Texas

are hunkered down Colbert has so eloquently put it, have in military bases taken the course of letting the ragtag while the country around them burns. Iraqi security forces do as much fight­Now would be as good a time as any ing as possible to minimize American for students to bring the war in Iraq casualties. home. The lunacy in this entire endeavor, 
So long as the commander in chief indeed any war, revolves around continues to try to sell his tired war assigning expendability to any human rhetoric, American forces will remain being. But since our leaders in paralyzed in the quagmire of Iraq. Washington have decided to stick their Congress hasn't shown much leader­heads in the sand, it's up to the silent ship on the issue ever since it notarized majority of Americans who assign dig­the president's blank check to do what nity to every human to end the silence he wanted with the U.S. military. Aside and demand this occupation end. from a few select cases where the war There may be comfort in silence, but is a tangible issue, these November there is not progress. It's time students mid-terms will assure that things embrace louder nonviolent protest to remain the same in the region. Without bring the war in Iraq home, before the much mobilization of dissent, this economic, moral and diplomatic tab should come as little surprise. the U.S. continues to run up in 
The sad but fortunate fact is that this Mesopotamia threatens more future war of choice affects very few harm on our country and the world. Americans. Until conscription kicks in and a draft is necessary to fill the This column originally appeared in armed forces, or the economy takes a the Oct. 2 issue ofthe Daily Texan, the nose-dive from high gas prices-nei­daily publication ofthe University of ther of which case are highly likely to Texas. occur in the next few years -the only The views expressed in this column exposure many Americans will have to are those ofthe author and not neces­Iraq is through the media, which has sarily those ofthe Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 12 
Tuesday, October 3, 2006 

Funny, frustrating sportscasters run the gamut 
BooK REVIEW 
Final plays are examined in 'Heart Stoppers' 
Photo courtesy of collegesports.com Ted Mandell's latest book "Heart Stoppers and Hail Marys" examines games whose outcomes depended on a single play, such as the infamous "Bush Push," above. 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Scene Editor 
Written by Notre Dame professor Ted Mandell, "Heart Stoppers and Hail Marys: The Greatest College Football Finishes (Since 1970)" is an interesting and expansive look at more than 100 of the greatest game finishes from the last three decades. 
Originally published in the 1990s, Mandell has updated the volume to include several recent games, including four from the 2005 season -the book ends with the epic 2006 Rose Bowl, in which the Vince Young-led Texas Longhorns defeated the USC Trojans. 
Every chapter in the book is divided in the same way-"The Background," "The Play" and "The Aftermath" ­whieh makes for easy and organized reading. 
Additionally, each chapter has a pull quote of a coach or player involved. Mandell sets up the background infor­mation for the end of the game, then friends will be happy to know that no fewer than eight Irish games are included here, among thei:n the 1988 Miami game, the 1992 "Snow 

Bowl"  and  the  
1980  Michigan  
game.  

Mandell's writ-
talks about the individual play that won {or lost) that game. The book then discusses how each team finished and what effect that particular game had on the team in question. "lleart Stoppers and Hail Marys" is obviously well researched, as it is l'illed with quotes and anecdotes that embellish the games themselves. 
"Heart Stoppers and Hail Marys" starts at 1968 and concentrates on fin­ishes that can be broken down to a sin­gle play, which means great games like 1971 Nebraska-Oklahoma, 199:~ Notre Dame-Florida State and 1998 Arkansas-Tennessee aren't included. In a nice touch, the volume includes not only Division 1-A, but also Division 1-AA (including some Ivy League games, like the 1968 match-up between Harvard and Yale) through Division Ill. 
Yet many of these games are going to be very familiar to college football fans, including the 1984 Miami­Nebraska Orange Bowl, the 1980 BYU­SMU Holiday Bowl and the 2003 Ohio State-Miami Fiesta Bowl. 
Notre Dame 

The quips of John Madden, the antics of Lee Corso and the wisdom of Tony Kornheiser make us laugh, make us cry and sometimes make us turn away in dis­gust. But who can deny that every one of those guys up there knows exaetly what he is doing (except maybe Brent Musburger)? 
The diversification of football anchors ranges from the goofy looking but eloquent (Kornheiser) to the guy we think knows noth­ing at all but some­times surprises us with a little gem ofself­dPprication {Davie) to that crazy guy who grunts when he's try­ing to sing fight songs (could it be anyone but Corso?). 
Attitude differences aside, one ofthe more notable methods implemented by networks to make sure not every sports­caster sounds exactly the same, and that the games aren't being called by Stephen Hawking (no offense to the man, but we're not watehing physies eontests), is to bring in retired players and coaches. 
Now, so the logic goes-who knows the game better than those who have played and coached? Well, the logic contains a few issues that ESPN and others don't seem to be addressing. One, not every player has been trained in the fmc art ofeloquence. Now, Madden got lucky and turned his painfully apparent statements into a shtick that's brought him video game contracts and a nice little job in the broadcast booth. 
However, Sunday ESPN commentator 


Marty Schroeder 
Assistant Scene Editor 
and former Cowboys wide receiver Michael Irvin remains misunderstood with a phono­graph horn and the volume set at 50. He may have been fine at catching receptions (and getting into to trouble), but when it comes to sports atmouncing, he just does­n't have what it takes. 
He's a former pro-bowler who played for "America's team," so he gets a spot, but when stacked up against a guy who's been in the business for over 20 years (Chris Berman or Mark May, take your pick), the glaring differences become apparnnt. 
Coaches, it seems. have some trouble adjusting from calling the plays on the finld to describing the plays in the press box. I'm sorry. Bob Davie, the press box is not the same as the field or your living room. 
This former Irish coach offers up nuggets like, "Looking at Charlie really makes me want to get back into eoaehing, but when I look at John L. Smith I think twice ... ha ha ha," in reference to the end of this year's Michigan State-Notre t)ame game. 
While I may not quote accurately, the point is that this guy may have known how to run a defense, but when it comes to run­ning commentary, his abnormally deep voice just doesn't cut it. He knows football, but doesn't know how to discuss it on TV 
With Davie in the middle ofwhere I think most sports analysts are, neitlJer horrible nor very good, we see the two ends of the spectrum -Kornheiser and Corso. The former is an award winning sports journal­ist while the other came out ofcoaching. The differences speak for themselves. Kornheiser may look goofY and may be balding, but when he opens his mouth, solid analysis is what you get and antics are not. 

courtesy msnbcmedia.msn.com Commentators Tony Kornheiser, left, Mike Tirico, center, and Joe Theismann discuss an NFL broadcast. Their remarks and antics range from intelligent to unnecessary. 
Well, that's boring, right? Wrong! Who doesn't love ESPN's "Pardon the Interruption?" Here's a show that eneour­ages Kornheiser, along with fine co-host Michael Wilbon. Intelligent antics are a valid part of "Pardon the Interruption." 
On the other side is Corso, with his hats, his yelling and his changing ofsides -and none of it ever makes much sense. Etched into my brain is the image ofCorso wear­ing an Irish Guardsman hat before the Georgia Tech game, attempting to sing our fight song. 
And this isn't just a personal matter. Corso does it every Saturday, yelling crazily while Kirk Herbstreit tries to say something about the upcoming game that makes some semblance ofsense. 

So in the end, I suggest that they bring in more journalists that know what they're talking about, while keeping a smattering of former stars and coaches. Sports TV is turning into a retirement plan where old players and coaches are put to pasture. They need some new blood that can be both funny and informative. And sure, some off the wall shtick is fine, but Corso ­stop being a moron. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at 
mschroe 1 @nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

ing is simple and easy to follow. His deseriptions of' the game are well-done and the background information is ample. It seems a bit odd to read descriptions of a sport that is so visual, but the book is sufficient as a reference and makes for interesting reading on its own. 
One of the best aspects of the volume is the inclusion of a pair of COs, which feature many of the original calls from the game. Some of these are famous already, like Flutie's Hail Mary {"He did it! He did it! Flutie did it!"), which was recently featured in a Wheaties com­mercia), or Joe Starkey's call of "The Play" ("The band is on the field!"). The CDs make for fun and, in a way, brings back memories of pre-ESPN days when radio was primarily how sports fans got their fix. 

"Heart Stoppers and Hail Marys" is a fun book and an excellent reference for college football fans. The $25 price tag is a bit much, but it makes a great gift for anyone interested in the sport. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Tuesday, October 3, 2006 
page 13 
RESTAURANT REVIEW 
Dominic's proves itself a tasty new pizzeria 
By SHELDON DUTES 
Scene Writer 
Whoever invented the concept of serv­ing triangular shapes of bread topped with marinara sauce and gooey moz­zarella cheese is an innovative genius worthy of homage from all college stu­dents. 
Because whether it's eaten as a meal or late night snack, pizza has always been a classic staple item in college stu­dent diets. 
From late night pizza binges at LaFortune to the gamut of pizza joints around town, students are all familiar with the food's ubiquity in their own col­lege experience. Now, there's one more pizza. restaurant to add to the list ­Dominic's Pizzeria. 
With an ideal location near campus on the corner of Edison and State Road 23, the restaurant has student friendly prices and appetizing, quality pizza, Dominic's Pizzeria has the potential to rise above its competitors and become a Notre Dame student favorite. 
Dominic's opened its doors to the pub­lic the same weekend Notre Dame defeated Penn State and is still ironing out a few of their debut kinks. 
While pizza prices are reasonable ($14.95 for a large 18 inch cheese pizza plus an additional $2 student discount as well as NY slices for $2.50), Dominic's is not going to be your stereotypical college pizza place. The restaurant closes at midnight and it doesn't deliver, so don't look to Dominic's to satisfy any late night cravings. 
However, don't write the pizzeria off just yet. Even though it hasn't actively advertised to students, Dominic, the head pizza chef, says that he is willing to run student special ads in campus publica­tions. 
In addition to the student friendly prices, the menu's simplicity is particu­larly attractive. Traditional pizza, appe­tizers and drinks are the menu's only featured items. 
Dominic's delicious pies range in sizes of small ($8.95), medium ($12.95) and large ($14.95) with traditional toppings for an extra $1.50. 
While customers wait for their pizza they can sip on a Pepsi fountain drink for approximately $2. They can also munch on a small variety of appetizers, includ­ing breadsticks and mozzarella sticks, which cost about $6. 
Dominic, the head chef and owner, really knows pizza. Dominic has been making pizzas since he was 11 years old and his pizza making expertise definitely shows in his pizza's palatable quality. All of the ingredients and pizzas are fresh, made to order and baked in a traditional pizza oven. 
The crust is thin and crisp, but not so fragile that it folds under the pressure of sauce, toppings and mozzarella cheese. As compared to other pizzas, Dominic's sauce is definitely fresher. 
The pizza is neither drenched with marinara, nor is the sauce sparsely spread. Dominic, instead, spreads just the right amount of sauce to accentuate the pizza's overall flavor. 
The mozzarella cheese is melted to a gooey perfection with just the right gold­en brown tint. Another distinguishing characteristic of his pizza is that any top-pings are underneath the cheese, which blankets the toppings from sliding off of the pie. 

There's something missing in the restaurant's ambiance -it's not homey and welcoming. Decoration is at an aus­tere minimum, leaving a few walls stark white and uninviting. There are approxi­mately ten tables with four uncomfort­able straight back chairs at each. These shortcomings, however, can all be resolved with time. It's nothing a few framed ND posters, Irish head coach Charlie Weis's endorsement and cush-

CD REVIEW 
Wire's 'Pink Flag' shines in new re-release 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 
Almost three decades after its original release, Wire's first trio of albums has been re-mastered and re-released. Marked by arty minimalism, Wire, in its initial incarnation, inlluenced the direction of post-punk throughout the 1980's. The band's first album, "Pink Flag," remains its best.. sounding just as fresh and weird today as it did in 1977. 
Comprised of Colin Newman (vocals, gui­tar), Bruce Gilbert (guitar), Graham Lewis (bass) and Hobert Gotobed (drums), Wire originally formed while the band members were art school students in England. Appropriately, the band's brand of rebel­lion is not typical punk, incorporating artsy. abstract elements into the music and design, as evidenced by the cover, which (appropriately enough) features a pink !lag. 
The songs themselves are brief, busy and bizarre. "Pink Flag" rips through 21 songs in about 37 minutes, with several pieces clocking in less than 60 seconds ­in fact, only a pair of tracks (the title track and "Strange") last longer than three min­utes. 
The art influence is obvious throughout, with song titles like "Field Day for the Sundays" and "Three Girl Rhumba." Like their contemporary, Joy Division, few of Wire's songs (at least at this stage) actually fmish. Instead, they just end abruptly. · 
Many of them only incorporate a single rill' or vocal line, though lyrics like "Prices have risen since the government fell/Casualties increase as the enemy shelVfhe climate's unhealthy, flies and rats thrive/And sooner or later the end will arrive" are far more eloquent than the "I wanna be in anarchy" rage being spewed by Wire's contemporaries. 
Indeed, the biggest and most noticeable difference between Wire and other bands in the initial punk explosion is attitude. In stark contrast to The Clash's bristling self­righteousness or The Sex Pistol's vitriolic anarchism, Wire is cold and distant. 
The stylistic tendencies, which favor minimalism and artiness, give the album a detached feeling -.an art school version of "The Ram ones." 
What seems to 


r---------------------------~~~=-~======~~~ 
stand out about "Pink Flag" (asideWire 
from vocal lead Newman's oddly ingratiating, occa­sionally indecipher­able sneer) is the 
Pink Flag 
Restless Records 
album's brilliance and resonance. Much of the punk and post-punk from 

'----------------'1 the late 1970s, in spite of being
Recommended tracks: 'Pink Flag"Three Girl Rhumba' 
undoubtedly influ­entia!, sounds badly outdated today. Music by bands like Gang of Four and Television hasn't stood up quite as well as "Pink Flag," which is a testament to how ahead of its time (or at the very least, out of step with the times) Wire was in its day. 
Wire's influence has been most obvious in the number of covers performed by other bands. REM took the eerie, creeping "Strange" and turned it into a party song 
. on "Document," Minor Threat performed a roaring version of "12XU," My Bloody Valentine turned "Map Ref. 41 N 93 W" into a shoe-gazing mood piece, and Elastic's "Connection" is almost exactly the same as "Three Girl Rhumba." "Pink Flag" remains one of a handful of truly essential British punk albums from 

.. 
ioned seats won't solve. 
While the ambiance and student appeal need some serious work, the pizza's deli­cious quality definitely redeems the restaurant. 
Dominic's Pizzeria appears to be more of a relaxed place to grab a slice with friends and enjoy each other's company. With the remedy of a few minor debut details, it could be well on its way to becoming a popular student choice for quality pizza. 
Contact Sheldon Dotes at sdutes@nd.edu 

the movement's initial explosion, ranking right up there with "Never Mind the Bullocks" and "The Clash." Wire helped bridge the gap between punk and post­punk over the course of its next two albums ("Chairs Missing" and "154," respectively), but its debut remains its high point. 
Wire may have had individual moments better than those on "Pink Flag," but the band never again equaled its cohesiveness or compulsively listenable sensibility. "Pink Flag" is a great album made better by this re-mastered reissue. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, October 3, 2006 
MLB 

Peavy looks healthy for start of Cards' series 
After pitching last year with two broken ribs, San Diego's ace is looking to avenge his loss for the Padres at home 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -Home-field advantage has never looked so good to the San Diego Padres and their healthy ace, Jake Peavy. 
A year after being swept out of the playoffs by the St. Louis Cardinals, the NL West champi­on Padres get another shot at Chris Carpenter and the NL Central champions. This time, the first two games will be. at Petco Park, starting Tuesday afternoon. If needed, Game 5 also will be played here. 
"You know, we need to get the series off to a good start these first two games and hopefully get into St. Louis with a chance to clinch it," Peavy said Monday after the Padres held a workout at their downtown ballpark. 
Besides the 1984 World Series, the Padres have never started a postseason series at home. 
They'd love to follow the script the Cardinals used in sweeping the Padres twice since 1996 in the division series -win two at home, then clinch on the road. Last year the Cardinals pummeled their for­mer teammate Woody Williams in Game 3 at Petco Park. In 1996, Brian Jordan made a spectacular diving catch in the eighth inning of the third game, then hit a two-run homer off Trevor Hoffman in the ninth, with the ball landing in a palm tree beyond the left-field fence. 

A year ago, besides having a much better team, the Cardinals benefited from Peavy pitching with two broken ribs. Peavy hurt himself when he jumped on Hoffman's head while celebrating the Padres' division title several days earli­er, then fell behind 8-0 in the playoff opener. 
Peavy, who's been prone to freak injuries the last two sea­sons, said he's healthy. 
''I'm feeling a lot better than I was last year," the 25-year-old right-hander said. "You know, no excuses. This time out I feel as good as I've felt all year. The first half was a bit of a struggle, but the second half, I've been healthy, making my starts with­out any interference physical­!y. " 
Or at least the Padres hope. 
"With Jake, we always wait until right before the game to make sure he's OK," manager Bruce Bochy said. 
Peavy was an uncharacteris­tic 11 "14 with a 4.09 ERA this season. His unsightly numbers were due in part to shoulder tendinitis early in the season and a lack of run support from an offense that's prone to disap­pearing at inopportune times. 
The Padres are used to doing things the hard way. It took them until the final inning of the regular season to clinch their second straight division title, benefiting from a strange play at Arizona. 
They'll take it, though, espe­cially since it means playing in front of the home fans who got all revved up just more than a week ago cheering Hoffman as he tied and then broke Lee Smith's all-time saves record. 
"You start the playoffs with a team like St. Louis last year, and you walk into the ballpark to a sea of red, and already right there it's an advantage for the home team," said Dave Roberts, the Padres' leadoff hit­ter and left fielder. "We expect the same for us this year." 
San Diego is in the playoffs in consecutive seasons for the first time ever. It's also trying to win a game in October for the lirst time since winning the 1998 NL pennant. San Diego was swept by the New York Yankees in the 1998 World Series, missed the playoffs for six straight seasons, then was swept by St. Louis last year. 
For most of the season, the Padres played better on the road than at spacious Petco 


Park, where drives that would be homers at other ballparks are just long outs. But the Padres played much better dur­ing their last four homestands. 
St. Louis, on the other hand, looks at lot like the Padres did last year. The Cardinals lost front-line players to injuries and were 83-78, losing nine of their last 12 as they backed into their third straight division title. 

"It's tough," said shortstop David Eckstein, who's been bothered by a strained left hamstring. "You want to play well and unfortunately we did­n't play that good of baseball. It's one of those things that happened but the bottom line is we were able to come through in the end." 
NHL 

Chelios leads charge against NHLPA executive director 
Besides seeking a court order players' union and restore 2005 when the association gations have been answered and 
Players file lawsuit 

allowing them to remove Saskin, democracy as provided by our accepted a collective bargaining explained. I think the players the unhappy members asked for constitution." agreement that for the first time have a very good understanding 
against union leader 

unspecified millions of dollars in In Toronto, union spokesman contained a salary cap. The cap of what went on and why." 
Ted Saskin Monday damages and punitive damages. Jonathan Weatherdon said: "The ran counter to the views that The suit spotlighted the events "Unfortunately, this lawsuit has NHLPA has not been served with Goodenow expressed in dealing of July 28, 2005, whe.n Associated Press become necessary after months a complaint but we're confident with the league on a contract. Goodenow was dismissed with of stonewalling by the union," that these reported allegations Named as defendants were the the union agreeing to pay off his CHICAGO -Detroit Red Wings Chelios said in statement. "On are without merit." He declined NHLPA itself as well as Saskin contract. The same day, Saskin star Chris Chelios and other behalf of more than 100 NHL further comment. and former union president was hired as executive director members of the NHL Players' players, we continue to seek full A message was left at the oflice Trevor Linden, fellow player Bill "despite the fact that Saskin was Association asked a federal court disclosure by the NHLPA of the of Chicago attorney Richard L. Guerin and former players never properly nominated for the Monday to help them oust the events leading up to Bob Mareus, who filed the lawsuit. Vincent Damphouse and Bob position by the executive board." union's executive director and Goodenow's departure and the The suit filed by Chelios, Boughner -all former members The suit claims the switch of award them millions of dollars in hijacking of the union by a hand­Edmonton goalie Dwayne of the NHLPA's executive com­executive directors was done in damages. ful of other players. Roloson and former player Trent mittee. violation of the union's constitu­
The lawsuit filed in Chicago "We have repeatedly requested Klatt represented the latest out­"It's the same tired old allega­tion. It claims that even before said executive director Ted that Mr. Saskin agree to an inves­break of internal bickering with­tions that we've seen for a year then Saskin, previously the asso­Saskin and others "flouted the tigation by an impartial third in the union that has been flaring now," Linden said Monday after ciation's senior director of busi­constitution and governing law to party and he has steadfastly since the loekout by owners that finishing a practice with the ness affairs and licensing, had maintain their control" over the refused to do so. We simply want wiped out the 2004-05 season. Vancouver Canucks. ''I'm tired of been using NHLPA funds to cam­union. to eliminate fraud within the The lockout ended in June talking about it. The same aile-paign for the top job. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6 2 rooms in private home w/separate FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK-Spring Break 2007 Celebration 20th Bedrooms entrance for football weekends. ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232-Anniversary w/Sun Splash Tours WANTED www.N Dstudentrentals.com Shared bath. Close to ND. 574-259-2378. PERSONAL Free trip on every 12 before Nov. 1. 
8603. Free Meals & Parties, Hottest Deals FALL WORK $15.50 base-appt. NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICK-Ever. Group Discounts on 6+. Flexible schedules, no exp. need-Houses 4 Rent:W/Es-Home Upscale Football Weekend House -ETS FOR SALE HOME or AWAY UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Hottest Spring Break Destinations. ed, customer sales/service, condi-Fbaii,Sr Dad,JPW,Grad.B&G; Escort Optional. 574-993-8333 games.Call517-351-1992 or order Do not go it alone. If you or some-1-800-426-7710. www.sunsplash­lions apply, all ages 17+, SEMESTER-Spring/Summer. Mike: keszeicpa@ sbcglobal.net online 24(7 at WWW.JAMESTHET-one you love needs confidential tours.com Call Toda~ 574-273-3835. 312-618-4722 ICKETMAN.COM we have tickets support or assistance, please call 
local or nationwide. Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. Spring Break 2007 Celebration. Undergrad/grad student (1), turn, TICKETS For more information, 20th Anniversary w/Sun Splash FoR RENT clean 3 room apt. close to ND, quiet see our bi-weekly ad in The Tours. Free trip on every 12 before wooded setting. Minimal domestic WANTED: Observer. Nov. 1. Free Meals & Parties, 
·FoR SALE 

BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam-assistance, if preferred, will reduce Notre Dame tickets. 251-1570 Hottest Deals Ever. Group pus homes & weekend rentals. rent. Spring Break 2007 Celebration 20th Discounts on 6 or more. Hottest Bluegoldrentals.com 272-6377. FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232-Investment homes for sale near Anniversary w/Sun Splash Tours Spring Break Destinations. 1800­
0964 ND. 866-521-8989. Free trip on every 12 before Nov. 1. 426-771 0.www.sunsplashtours.com 45 minutes from Notre Dame Bed & Breakfast, ND home games, Free Meals & Parties, Hottest Deals Stadium. $125.00/night. Year round 2 bedrms, private bath,6 miles west WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. 1999 HONDA CIVIC. Blk. 78K Ever. Group Discounts on 6+. Anyone with 2 extra Stanford cabins sleep six. Call Lumberjack of South Bend Airport. TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY miles. 1 owner. Sporty. Hottest Spring Break Destinations. Tickets? Resort Call574-289-2919 and leave mes-WILL PAY MORE. Runs great. $6,600. 1-800-426-7710. www.sunsplash-Let me know.. 269-646-2181. sage. 574-288-2726. 286-1861. tours.com (860) 202-2463 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, October 3, 2006 CoMPILED rRoA-t THE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NFL

Men's Soccer NSCAA/adidas Top 25 
team record previous 
1 SMU 10-0-1 3 2 Clemson 8-0-1 1 3 Maryland 8-1-0 6 4 Washington 8-0-0 4 5 Virginia 8-1-0 2 6 South Carolina 8-1-0 11 7 Illinois-Chicago 7-0-2 9 8 North Carolina 8-2-0 18 9 West Virginia 7-1-2 8 10 San Diego 7-1-0 NR 11 Wake Forest 7-2-0 7 12 Old Dominion 7-1-0 13 13 Fordham 6-0-2 12 14 Duke 7-1-1 5 15 Memphis 7-2-0 15 16 South Florida 5-2-2 16 17 NOTRE DAME 5-3-2 NR 18 Santa Clara 5-2-2 NR 19 Cent. Connecticut 4-2-1 NR 20 Brown 5-1-1 RV 21 James Madison 7-1-0 RV 22 UC Irvine 6-1-1 NR 23 SIJohns 6-2-1 NR 24 Colgate 5-0-2 NR 25 UAB 5-3-1 25 
Women's Soccer NSCAA/a did as Top 25 
team record previous 
1 NOTRE DAME 9-0-0 1 2 North Carolina 10-1-D 2 3 Santa Clara 3-2·0 4 4 Florida State 7-1-0 5 5 UCLA 7-2-0 2 6 West Virginia 3-0-2 7 7 Portland 7-2-1 8 8 TexasA&M 6·3-1 10 9 Penn State 6·2-2 9 Associated Press to Philadelphia scores. He including a 54-yarder. lead, and they never 10 Boston University 7-2-1 11 left with a slight head Correll Buckhalter, start­looked back. 
11 Texas 8-2-0 14 
PHILADELPHIA injury late in the fourth ing for Westbrook, lost On Philly's next drive,
12 Wake forest 9·2-0 24 
Donovan McNabb looked quarter. two fumbles inside the Lewis blew past corner­
13 California 7+2 6 
like his old, scrambling McNabb finished 16-of-Packers 5 in the first half. back Ahmad Carroll,
14 Virginia 7-2-1 RV 
self. Brett Favre looked, 30 for 288 yards and had But McNabb used his caught McNabb's pass in
15 Illinois 6-4-0 13 
well, old. 45 yards rushing. He legs in the third quarter stride inside the 5 and
16 William & Mary 3+1 23 
McNabb ran for two scored on runs of 6 and to ignite the offense and fought his way into the
17 Oklahoma State 3·1-'1 20 
touchdowns and threw for 15 yards, and connected lead the Eagles (3-1) to end zone to give the
18 BYU 7-1-1 18 
a pair, leading the with Greg Lewis on TD their third victory by a Eagles a 17-9 lead. 
19 Purdue 9-H 18 
Philadelphia Eagles to a passes of 45 and 30 yards. double-digit margin. After rookie defe-nsive
20 Florida 6-3-1 15 
31-9 victory over the "I decided to go back to On the opening posses­tackle LaJuan Ramsey
21 Colorado 6·2·1 21 
Green Bay Packers on my style of play," McNabb sion of the third quarter, intercepted a tipped pass
22 Maine 8·0-1 16 
Monday night. said, "and if the opportu­McNabb twice kept the and lost 12 yards on the
23 Utah 6·4-0 RV 
24 Meanwhile, Favre, who nity is there, take full drive going by running for return, McNabb and
Arizona 6-3·0 RV 
25 Boston College H·O RV has enjoyed many memo­advantage." first downs on third-and-Lewis hooked up again to rable moments on Playing without injured 10. He got 14 yards on his put Philadelphia ahead Monday night throughout running back Brian first dash and juked for 24-9. his 16-year career, would Westbrook, the Eagles 12 more to the Packers 42 On the next series, 
MIAA Soccer Standings like to forget this one. started slow and trailed on the second one. Michael Lewis intercepted Favre misfired badly on 9-7 at halftime following David Akers then kicked Favre's overthrown pass several passes, including three field goals from a 40-yard field goal to at the Eagles 13 and
league overall 

two interceptions that led Green Bay's Dave Rayner, give the Eagles a 10-9 returned it to the 34. 
team record record 


1  Calvin  3-0·0  11·0-0  
2 3  Saint Mary's Olivet  2-0-0 1-0-1  3-5-0 3-5-1  IN BRIEF  
4  Albion  1-1-1  8·3-1  
5 6 7 8 9  Adrian Alma Kalamazoo Hope Tri-State  1-1-0 1-2-0 1-2-0 D-1-0 0-3-0  3-7-0 3-7-0 4-4-0 3·5·1 0·9·9  Haynesworth suspendedfive games for kick NEW YORK -Tennessee Titans defensive tackle Albert Haynesworth was suspended five games for kicking  James confident about Cavaliers' title hopes CLEVELAND -LeBron James palmed a basketball in each hand and spread his arms out for the pho­ Prosecutors cite inaccuracies in Grimsley story SAN FRANCISCO-The federal pros­ecutor overseeing an investigation of steroids in baseball said Monday a  
Dallas center Andre Gurode in the  tographer. Smile. Picture. At the next  newspaper report that five players,  
face during Sunday's game.  photo station, he balanced a ball on  including Roger Clemens, had used  
The  NFL  said  Monday  that  his left shoulder. Smile. Picture.  illegal performance-enhancing drugs  
Haynesworth was suspended for Oa­ Without prompting, James then  contained "significant inaccuracies."  
around the dial  grant unnecessary roughness. The suspension, which is without pay, is effective immediately. Haynesworth  paused at the appropriate times dur­ing a slow, 360-degree spin so the camera could capture every angle of  Citing sealed court filings, the Los Angeles Times reported that former pitcher Jason Grimsley had named  
will be eligible to return to the field  his  powerful  physique.  Smile.  Clemens, his Houston Astros team­ 
Nov. 19 for the Titans' game at  Picture. Smile. Picture. Next.  mate Andy Pettitte, and Baltimore  
Philadelphia.  James has this stuff down cold.  Orioles Miguel Tejada, Brian Roberts  
MLB PLAYOFFS  "There is absolutely no place in the  Entering his fourth year as a pro, the  and Jay Gibbons.  
Oakland at Minnesota 1 :00 p.m., ESPN  game, or anywhere else, for the inex­cusable action that occurred in yes­terday's Titans-Cowboys game," NFL  Cavaliers' All-Star forward under­stands that every NBA season must begin the same way: photo shoots,  San Francisco U.S. Attorney Kevin Ryan issued a statement Monday, say­ing: "In view of the recent news  
commissioner Roger Goodell said.  interviews, wind sprints.  reports purporting to identify certain  
Detroit at New York Yankees  Haynesworth was penalized and  He's hoping, though, this one can  athletes whose  names  had been  
8:00 p.m., FOX  ejected from the game early in the third quarter after he twice kicked  end differently. "Last year making the playoffs was  redacted from the government's search warrant filings in the Grimsley  
Gurode in the head following a  5­ our main goal," James said. "This  matter, and in the interests of justice,  
yard touchdown run by Julius Jones  year, it's about winning a champi­ please be advised that these reports  
of the Cowboys.  onship."  contain significant inaccuracies."  



--------------------------, 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 3, 2006 

MLB 

Giants no longer focused on Bonds 
San Francisco owner says team will change offseason strategies 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -If Barry 

us a better chance of winning or not. Not whether or not we have a better chance of draw­ing 3 million people to the ball­park to watch him pursue a home run chase." 
The 42-year-old Bonds' $90 million, five-year contract is up with San Francisco, though he 
NBA 

Pacers show spirit at media day 
An optimistic Indiana hopes new attitude will lead to success 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -In a moment that captured the Indiana Pacers' new attitude, Stephen Jackson interrupted coach Rick Carlisle's Media Day press conference, hugged him and sat by his side to answer questions. 
That's the same Jackson who constantly argued with officials last season, com­plained when Carlisle took him out of games and said he didn't care whether the Pacers traded him. 
Jackson claims he's changed, and the Pacers hope his impromptu gesture on Monday symbolizes what awaits a team that has strug­gled to find good chemistry since the brawl with Detroit Pistons fans two years ago. 
"Coach is walking around like it's Christmas right now," forward Jermaine O'Neal said. "It's a different feel." 
The Pacers made signifi­cant changes after finishing with a 41-41 record and a first-round playoff loss. They drafted forward Shawne Williams and added forward James White in a draft-day trade. Then, they traded for forward Marquis Daniels and picked up free agent forward AI Harrington. In all, 12 of the 19 players who will arrive at Tuesday's training camp are new. 
"This new group of guys, they're extremely hungry," O'Neal said. "I think every­body's looking to really prove something this year." 

Si\IN'I' IIARY'S 
f~f) I.~I.J~t;J~ 

S'I'IJI)I~N'I' J)J\7 1~1lSI'IT llftillll) II()N 1 ..1Ill~ 


October 4th 6:30pm-9:00pm Saint Mary's Soccer Field Entertainment Free Food Live 1\1usic i\1uch More!! 


But Carlisle knows that words don't change the standings. 
"Talk is cheap," Carlisle said. "You've got to walk the walk and do what you say you're going to do." 
The Pacers' planned shift to an up-tempo offensive approach has created pre­season excitement. The slow halfcourt offense will be replaced by a more open style and Indiana will apply 
more  ball  pressure on  
defense.  
"I  think  we  

have gotten pre­dictable the last 

couple of years the Pacers are
"Coach is walking 
in our style of one of the
around like it's 
play, and we toughest divi­weren't fun to Christmas right sions in the watch," O'Neal league. Most
now. 
said. publications The change in have the Pacers 
Jermaine O'Neal 
philosophy led finishing fourth several players Pacers forward in the Eastern 
to come back in better shape. O'Neal has trimmed down his upper body and improved his leg strength. Point guards Jamaal Tinsley and Sarunas Jasikevicius and center David Harrison returned in better shape than last year. 
Indiana's new style could create some odd lineups. Harrington, at 6-foot-9 and 245 pounds, could be called on to play center at times. 
"I don't want to play center, but whatever it takes for me to win, I'll do," he said. "If it causes me to play Shaq and all those guys, I guess I'm going to start eating and get out there and get it done." 
Then, there's O'Neal's hair­style as the 27-year-old exchanged his signature cornrows for a brush cut. 
"I just wanted to see some­thing different," he said. "New style, new everything." 
The changes extend to off­the-court bonding. The play­ers have enjoyed such activi­ties as bowling, playing board games and watching football games. 
They hope that cama­
raderie extends 
back to the 
court because 
Conference's 
Central Division, 
behind Chicago, Detroit and Cleveland. 
"Nobody's even talking about us making any noise this year," Harrington said. "I think that's disrespectful. There's a lot of guys here with a lot of pride and they know how to play the game. They just have to prove it." 
Jackson thinks the over­sight might be a blessing. 
"We've been kind of paci­fied, kind of spoiled the past few years," he said. "We need to start off as under­dogs and we need to play that way." 
Bonds is back with the San Francisco Giants next season, and that still seems to be a big if, owner Peter Magowan said the slugger will not be the cen­terpiece of the roster any longer.· 
"I think we need to go in a new direction," Magowan said Monday after the club announced manager Felipe Alou's contract would not be renewed. "We have for a long time had a strategy that has worked well until the last two years, when it hasn't worked so well. The strategy has been one of having a great player ­maybe the greatest player in the game -at the centerpiece and filling in with veteran play­ers. 
"For a long time that worked well. It caught up with us the past couple of years. Now we do need to get younger and healthier." 
The Giants have 11 potential free agents and were still in the process of evaluating who they might want to retain ­and Magowan made it clear No. 25 wouldn't be wearing a Giants uniform in 2007 just to attract fans at the team's waterfront ballpark. 
"It's a tough decision, but the decision's going to be made on what gives the Giants the best chance to win," Magowan said. "It's not going to be made on what gives the Giants the best chance to fill up a ballpark on some marketing situation. I feel the best marketing is to win. 
"Whether Barry fits into that plan or not will depend on baseball evaluations of whether he will be able to give has said he would like to return to the Giants for a 15th season -2007 would be his 22nd in the big leagues. 

Bonds has 734 home runs, 22 from breaking Hank Aaron's career record of 755, and is eligible for free agency after the World Series. After missing all but 14 games in 2005 fol­lowing three operations on his right knee, Bonds batted .270 with 26 homers and 77 RBis in 367 at-bats in 2006. 
"The biggest question is what kind of team we can have with him or without him," general manager Brian Sabean said. "Some of what you have to determine, Barry aside, is how are you going to build your ros­ter?" 
Sabean said a cleanup sur­gery on Bonds' left elbow to remove bone chips was "pend­ing." Bonds expected to get it done sometime this week. 
Also, Mark Sweeney was scheduled to undergo an arthroscopic procedure on his left knee soon and minor league pitcher Merkin Valdez had reconstructive "Tommy John" surgery on his elbow last week and won't pitch next sea­son, Sabean said. 
Starting pitcher Matt Morris, who went 10-15 with a 4.98 ERA in his first season with the Giants, pitched since August with a fractured rib on his right side and a stress reaction in two other ribs on either side. Simple rest should be all Morris needs to be ready come spring training. 
"Matt Morris doesn't want to use this as an excuse for his performance," trainer Stan Conte said Monday. 
Tuesday, October 3, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Pyros' playoff hopes on the line against Lyons 
Undefeated Welsh Family faces biggest test of the season as it takes on a powerful Chaos defense tonight at 8 p.m. 
By JOHN TIERNEY and BILL BRINK Sports Writers 
Pasquerilla East and Lyons are entering their final game of the season tonight at 9 p.m. on Riehle Field West with very different goals. 
The Pyros need a win to secure a playoff berth, while the Lions are playing for pride and looking to avoid fin­ishing with a winless regular season. 
Pasquerilla East rode early offensive aggressiveness and late defensive toughness to a 13-12 win Sunday over then­undefeated Cavanaugh ­keeping its playoff hopes alive in the process. Meanwhile, the Lions were eliminated from any postseason consid­eration with a 14-0 loss to Walsh. 
Pyro captain Molly Fox believes her team's victory was no fluke, but rather a sign of more success to come. 
"We're a young team and we needed experience, which unfortunately came during the season, but we still have time to get to the playoffs," she said. 
Fox believes Pasquerilla East was able to hit its stride late this season due in part to the team's exemplary work ethic. The squad had three 7 
a.m. practices last week in addition to four team meet­ings. 
"I definitely think that after [these practices and meet­ings] with our coaches some­thing clicked for us," Fox said. 
The Pyros and the Lions are both young and inexperi­enced, but full of potential. 
"They're a well-coached team with talent, that, like us, hasn't been able to capitalize on it," Fox said. 
While Pasquerilla East enters the game hoping for a win to make the playoffs, Lyons just wants to have a good time. 
"We understand that win­ning is great, but it's just a game and the main reason we play is to have fun," Lyons captain Cheron Wilson said. "As long as we have fun, we can't get too down," 
Lyons will battle Pasquerilla East with a Blue League play­off berth on the line for the Pyros at 9 p.m Tuesday at the Riehle West fields. 
Walsh vs. Badin 
Tonight's game is loaded with playoff implications. 
Badin and Walsh -both with 2-2 records -have the opportunity to vault into sec­ond place tonight at 7 p.m. on Riehle West field with a win and a Cavanaugh loss. 
After starting the season with a win, Badin lost consec­utive games to Cavanaugh and Welsh Family and was in danger of falling out of the race. But a 13-7 win over Lyons Sept. 26 put the Bullfrogs right back in con­tention. 
Quarterback Katie Rose 
Hackney leads Badin's potent offense. She's a quick, versa­tile player who also plays defense and returns kicks. With her in the backfield and talented wide receivers Courtney Rains and Lizzi Shappell split out wide, Badin should test Walsh's stingy sec­ondary. 
But Walsh captain Mary Claire Sullivan is not fazed. 
"We're not worried about Badin," Sullivan said. "We'll do what we know how to do, and worry about what we can control." 
Badin won't be able to pass on offense and force the issue on defense as easily as it did against Lyons, when it was able to shut down an option attack and force the pass. Badin took advantage of mis­matches on defense and Hackney's scrambling ability and was able to put together some nice scoring drives. 
Although they outplayed the Lions, the Bullfrogs only won 13-7, and one of their touch­downs came on a tipped pass that was intercepted and returned for a touchdown. 
They will need a better showing against Walsh, a team that has matured as the season progresses. 
"We're starting to gel on offense and defense," Sullivan said. "We have a lot of talent, and we're coming together." 
Walsh has also lost to both Cavanaugh and Welsh Family, but has very convincing wins over Lyons and Pasquerilla East. Against the Pyros, 
Walsh registered seven inter­ceptions, including four by Wild Women safety Julie Campbell. This secondary will hope to shut down Hackney and the Bullfrog passing game as it has done in their last two games. 
"It's not a matter of any­thing not working -it's just been a matter of time," Sullivan said. 
Welsh Family vs. Cavanaugh 
A matchup between two of the two best teams in the Blue League should prove exciting. 
Welsh Family plays Cavanaugh tonight at 8 p.m. on Riehle West Field in a game that could determine the outcome of the Blue League standings. Welsh Family (4-0) is currently in first and Cavanaugh is in sec­ond (3-1). 
If Welsh Family wins, it will take an undefeated record and the top seed into the playoffs. Cavanaugh beat both Badin and Walsh -so even if it loses it will remain in sec­ond. However, a win will push the Chaos past the Whirlwinds into the top spot. 
The crucial factor of the game for the Chaos will be stopping Welsh Family quar­terback Jenni Gargula's high­powered Whirlwind offense. Gargula, who has a strong arm, great pocket presence and a talented group of receivers, can complete the short pass underneath as well as the deep route. 
Chaos captain Kerri Bergen knows how important defense will be in this game. 

"We need to make big plays on defense, and not allow any big pass plays," Bergen said. "We play zone defense. We'll cover the deep zone and watch for crossing routes. Lots of talk on defense is important. We need cummuni­cation between players about what routes they're running." 
Welsh Family is a great ball control team, sustaining long drives and keeping the clock running. If Cavanaugh exe­cutes on offense, however, that advantage may be less­ened. 
"We need to push the ball hard on offense," Bergen said. "Our offense has been doing very well, both running and passing, and we want to keep that through to this game." 
The Whirlwinds defensive line that has wreaked havoc in the backfield and pres­sured quarterbacks to throw early all season will be a strong challenge to the Chaos offensive line. In order to avoid getting bogged down by Welsh Family's strong defense, Cavanaugh will need to get its offense running early. 
"We need to be really aggressive, and get out and not wait to get in the game," Bergen said. 
Contact John Tierney at 
jtiernel@nd.edu and 
Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

LIVE AND STUDY 


ROME Information Sessions 
5-6 PM Tuesday, October 3 129 Hayes-Healy 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: WVIIIIV.nd.edu/-intlstud 
JESSICA LEE!The Observer Lyons wide receiver Lauren Hesano catches a pass against Badin Sept. 26. The Bullfrogs beat the Lions 13-7. 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 3, 2006 
ing forward when the ball came loose, and therefore declared an
Tie 

incomplete pass. continued from page 24 Neither team was able to post 
a serious scoring threat for the "We struggled with injuries remainder of the game. recently," Crosson said of his Despite the seemingly even team's offensive deficiencies. game, Lavorini was not about to "We had a hard time getting give credit to his opponent. people for practice this week, "I don't know if those guys and we weren't on the same practice or just get together and page." beat each other with an ugly 
Despite the offensive inepti­stick," Lavorini said. "Either way tude, Knott managed to strike it makes me feel better knowing first blood thanks in large part to there's an entire football team their defense. out there that makes me look 
Knott linebacker Kevin Smith like Brady Quinn in compari­intercepted Sorin quarterback son." Casey "Pistol" McGushin on the ensuing drive and returned it to Carroll 26, St. Ed's 0 the Otter 14 yard line. The The matchup between Carroll .Juggerknotts then pounded the (2-0) and St. Ed's (0-3) was ball into the end zone for the decided by the play of Carroll lead. quarterback Jon Sarna, who 
"We were definitely happy kept the Vermin undefeated with how our defense played against the winless Stedsmen in today," Crosson said. "They his first career interhall start. bailed the offense out several Quarterback Cory Wilmont times." missed the game due to personal 
Sorin, however. answered reasons. but the Vermin offense right back thanks to workhorse didn't miss a beat. Sarna fin­running back Mike Dewan, ished the day 8-for-14 with 146 whose 10-yard scamper late in yards and three touchdowns, 
the second quarter knotted the two of those three going to jun­game at six going into the half. ior Paul Tassinari. 
In an otherwise defensively "We played pretty well today. oriented game, We were missing Dewan was the one our starting QB but
'The second score to
bright spot, rushing that dido 't stop us," 
take the lead was a Tassinari said. "We
for 137 yards on 21 carries. huge momentum played well on both In the fourth sides of the ball.
shift.'' 
quarter, Knott After a rough looked to have opening drive, our gained the deciding Tom Hessert offense did whatev­edge when Green Wave tailback er we wanted." Juggerknott sopho­In the first quar­more Adam Brainard intercept­ter, Carroll and St. ed a McGushin pass and Ed's combined for only six total 
returned it to the Otter 34. But yards, three punts and a fumble. on the very next play, Betz was But in the second quarter the picked by Sorin junior Kevin Vermin took over. Manning, ending the Knott scor­On the first possession of the ing threat. quarter, Sarna completed a 61­
Sorin then unleashed its best yard touchdown pass to drive of the second half, as Tassinari. The second Vermin Dewan skirted the corner and possession of the quarter was blazed "down the Knott sideline more of the same. Nine plays for a 54-yard run to the and 50 yards later, Sarna com­Juggernaut 5 yard line. But pleted a 9-yard touchdown to Knott's defense came up with its Tassinari. second great defensive stand, Following halftime, the Vermin holding Sorin to a field goal offense began their most impres­attempt that was blocked. sive drive of the game, a drive 
On the ensuing possession, that consumed the entire third Betz dropped back to pass, quarter and the beginning of the rolled to his right and was fourth. Carroll marched 45 drilled from behind, losing the yards on 13 plays and scored on football in the process. A Sorin a touchdown pass from Sarna ­defender picked up the loose ball his third of the game -to Kyle and returned it for an apparent Kownacki. go-ahead score. But the officials St. Ed's failed to find any ruled that Betz's arm was mov-offense, generating less than 50 down pass fr"om sophomore Max Young to senior Brandon Burke, putting the Ramblers up 7-0. 
Two possessions later the Green Wave tied it up on anoth­er miscue. Siegfried was forced to punt deep in its territory after a three-and-out. Tlw punt was blocked and returned for a touchdown by Fisher freshman Bill Whitaker. 
On the first play of the next drive, Siegfried lost a fumble, setting up the Green Wave with good field position. 
Fisher appeared to have capi­talized by scoring on the ensuing drive but the touchdown was called back due to a personal foul. Unfazed, Rabil dropped back and throw a 25-yard strike to put the Green Wave up 14-7. 
Fisher punted on its opening drive of the second half, but was able to recover the ball after it was muffed by the Hamblers' punt. A five-play, 25-yard drive was capped with a five-yard touchdown run by Fisher tail­back Tom Jlessert, putting Fisher up by 14 and ending Siegfried's dreams of a come­back. 
Mistakes aside, the most deci­sive part of the game may have been the play in the trenches. Fisher captain Tom Bufalino was confident that the oll"ensive and defensive lines would perform well, and his comments were justified by Sunday's play. 
"We played pretty well. We got down early but we came back." he said. "The second score to take the lead was a huge momentum shift. Both lines played very well again today. It was a good victory," 
Fisher head coach Ryan Bradel agreed that the linemen were crucial to the Green Wave win. 
"The key to this as the Morrissey defense con­stantly harassed Garigliano and the Big Red offense for the rest of the afternoon. 


Led by defensive end Joe Gemino, the Manorites brought immense pressure, resulting in numerous quarterback hurries and several sacks. On Dillon's next possession, Morrissey freshman Mikey Narvaez inter­cepted Garigliano 's pass attempt to again kill any offensive effort Dillon could muster. 
But Dillon's defense held and forced a fourth-and-eight. After Manorite coach Ryan Burnt decided to go for it, McBrayer more than converted for Morrissey. He found an open receiver for a 26-yard touch­down strike to increase the Morrissey lead to 14-6. 
Dillon then pieced together a solid drive, including a 20-yard run by Garigliano and comple­tions to Big Red freshmen Brian Coughlin and Chris Cugliari. The Big Red were on the Morrissey 8 yard line, but the Morrissey defense stiffened and intercept­ed Garigliano's pass in the end zone to end the half with the Manorites leading 14-6. 
As the second half began, Morrissey's game plan 
to punt. The Knights were able to open the game up on the next play with Gonzalez's touchdown run. 
Keenan then registered its third pick of the game to give the Knights back the ball, but Vega was sacked again on a fourth down conversion attempt. 
Much of the same was true during the next series, this time with O'Neill picking off Vega and then failing to convert on fourth down. 
O'Neill was final­
ly able to get its 
victory was the bat­"We made some offense going late tle in the trenches," in the fourth quar­
adjustments to 
Bradel said. "Our ter with a series of
counter the pressure 
defensive line swing passes to sacked Siegfried's they were bringing." sophomores Alex quarterback many Klupchak and Nate times and our Forte for first
Richard Grant
offensive line creat­downs. After using
Knights head coach 
ed huge holes for all of their time-
our two tailbacks to run through. They came out and hit hard but we hit them hard­er." 
Fisher will look to continue its winning ways against Sorin next Sunday while Siegfried will try to bounce back against Zahm. 
Keenan 10, O'Neill 0 
Keenan running back Alex Gonzalez broke free for an 89­yard touchdown run early in the third quarter to seal the game for the Knights, who held off previously unbeaten O'Neill. 
But there was little other offense outside the touchdown run. 
Besides Keenan's lone 27 -yard field goal, the first half was a tough defensive struggle. 
Keenan showed its defensive strength by intercepting two of Angry Mob quarterback Chris Stroh's passes. 
O'Neill returned the favor by picking off one of Knights quar­terback J.J. Vega's attempts as well as sacking the Keenan sig­nal caller. The half ended with the 3-0 Keenan lead, and both teams looked to make some adjustments. 
''They put a lot of guys in the box." Keenan coach Richard Grant said. "We made some adjustments to counter the pres­sure they were bringing." 
Both teams continued to be defensively strong in the second half. 
O'Neill intercepted a ·Vega pass, returning it 28 yards to the Keenan 49 yard line. After the Keenan defense held O'Neill to no gain on their first three plays and the Angry Mob were foreed 
outs, the Angry Mob was stopped short as the Knights defense came up with yet another big play. 
The defensive line, anchored by fifth-year senior Hal Munger, sacked Stroh as time expired. Munger was a menace for the O'Neill offensive line all day as he constantly led an aggressive Keenan defense in pressuring Stroh. 
"We worked hard this week to put a lot of pressure on their passing game, and our defensive backs did a nice job in the sec­ondary," Munger said. 
Keenan will look to continue its undefeated season next week against Stanford while O'Neill will regroup with a bye week. 
Morrissey 22, Dillon 6 
Morrissey quarterback Joe McBrayer connected with sopho­more Carl Andersen early in the first quarter for a 65-yard touch­down in a rout of winless Dillon Sunday. 
After a successful extra point attempt by Morrissey kicker Dan Kaesa, the Manorites -and especially their defense -con­trolled the tempo for the remain­der of the game. 
Dillon was looking for its first win of the season, and the team seemed in prime form during its first possession. After a series of runs, including a 22-yard dash by sophomore Alex Duffy, the offense moved the ball swiftly down the tield and capped the drive with a 1-yard run by quar­terback Joseph Garigliano. 
The extra point attempt was then blocked, and Dillon would never reach the end zone again 
It will be 
Out 
Loud 
Lectio@Eie ven 
Soon 

yards on the day. On the most promising Stedsmen possession of the game, Carroll defensive back Ryan Frost intercepted the pass and returned it 31 yards for the game's fmal score. 
Carroll head coach Mark Bennett was pleased with his team's performance in the win. 
"We saw this game as a must­win," Bennett said. "Our starting QB and our starting middle line­backer were both out, but the team really came together in their absence. 
"We went out and played hard, riverboat gambler mentality. However, we have to improve if we're going to make it to the sta­dium," he said. 
Carroll will face Knott Sunday while St. Ed's has a bye. 
Fisher 21, Siegfried 7 
Sunday's afternoon battle between Fisher and Siegfried showcased of two of the league's top teams that ended up being separated by their in-game mis­takes. 
The first of these mistakes came on the Green Wave's first drive when Fisher quarterback Kevin Rabil was picked off by the Ramblers secondary. Siegfried· capitalized on the turnover with an 18-yard touch­appearedto be to control the ball and run the football to eat up the clock. After recovering a Dillon fumble, Morrissey junior Nick Bencomo capped off a Manorite drive with a 3-yard burst into the end zone. 
After another Garigliano pick, Manor freshman Brian Pieh's runs gave Morrissey first and goal on the 2-yard line. But the tenacious Dillon defense denied Morrissey four times in a tough goal line stand. 
The Big Red, however, promptly fumbled a pitch in the end zone, resulting in a safety that effectively ended the game. 
For Morrissey captain Gemino, it was more than just a great effort. 
"It's a team game -we work hard and we are proud to play for Morrissey and look forward to continuing this success," he said. 
Dillon (0-3) will continue its quest for its first win next week­end against Alumni while Morrissey (2-0) squares off against Keough. 
Contact Colin Reimer at creimer 1 @nd.edu, Matt Hopke at mhopke@nd.edu and Amy Dixon at adixonO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Tuesday, October 3, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish in good position after tvvo 
The team jumped four spots in Monday's round by shooting a 309 
Jane Lee (76-78, 154 +10) contention. 
By CHRIS HINE 
paced the Irish, both tying for "I figured out my swing a Sports Writer 
sixth overall. Freshman little bit more in the second Annie Brophy was close round, even though I played 
Notre Dame overcame first behind with an 80-76, 156 statistically worse in the sec­round struggles and a stiff +12, tying for 16th individu­ond round. I saw an improve­Kansas wind to place third ally. ment in my short game out of 16 teams after two The wind had a strong because I had a lot of up and rounds of com-effect on the down shots," Maunu said. petition in the Irish golfers, Holt emphasized improving Marilynn Smith ''I'm proud ofthe making club the squad's short game since Sunflower selection diffi­arriving from South Florida
way we hung in 
Invitational at cult. before the Notre Dame
there with the 
the par-72 "The wind Invitational last week in an Alvamar Golf conditions the way affected a lot of attempt to shave unnecessary Club in people, espe­strokes off the team's score.
they were." 

Lawrence, Kan., cially on the "My short game was a big Monday. par-3's and try­improvement, because prac­The Irish ing to get the ticing on that made me feel
Susan Holt struggled in the Irish coach ball on the more confident that if I miss, first round of green, so you I don't get down on myself," play, posting a hit higher clubs Lee said. team score of 316, putting to hit it lower and hope it The program's overall them in seventh at the con­goes on the green," Maunu stroke average leader, senior clusion of the first round. said. Noriko Nakazaki (81-80, 161, Later in the day the wind Lee also had problems ini­+17) struggled on day one, picked up, causing many tially adjusting tying tied for teams to post high second to the weather 35th overall,
"! had a hard time 

round scores, but the Irish conditions. while Brophy managed to shoot 309 -the "I had a hard focusing early, but shot 81-83, 164, second best score of the time focusing +20. Senior
I visualized how 

round -to pull into third early, but I visu­Stacy Brown,
the ball would go

overall (625, +49) behind alized how the playing as an Arkansas-Little Rock (306-ball would go in in the air and that individual 318, 624 +48) and tourna­the air and that helped." entrant, shot 87­ment host Kansas (304-306, helped," she 87, 174 +30. 610 +34). said. "When it Kansas' 
''I'm proud of the way we got windy, I shot Amanda Costner
Jane Lee hung in there with the condi­a club up or a Irish junior leads all players tions the way they were," club down. The with a 3-over head coach Susan Holt said. wind was par 175. "It's encouraging that we're swirling so it was really hard Costner and Arkansas-Little only one shot out of second to judge where it was blow­Rock's Anita Ojeda tied for place. It's nice to be in the ing." the low round of the day with last grouping and have a Maunu struggled early in an even-par 72. chance to win." the first round, but was able Sophomore Lisa Maunu to storm back in the second Contact Chris Hine at (79-75, 154 +10) and junior round to keep Notre Dame in chine@nd.edu 

The Feminization of Poverty 
Featuring Jane Fonda 
Academy Award-winning Actor, Activist, Advocate for Women's Issues, including Women in Poverty 
Thursday, October 5th, at 7 p.m. 101 DeBartolo Hall 
All University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
Students, faculty and staff invited to attend 
Part of the MicroVenturing Certificate Program Sponsored by the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies, Mendoza College of Business http://gigot.nd.edu 
[9;iJ 
'91 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
MENDOZA COLLEGE OF BUSINESS 
Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies 
SMC GOLF 

Belles have high hopes for tourney 
dential development and has
Saint Mary's looks 

a reputation for being windy. "Wind is always a factor in
sharp after third place 

golf, but I'm confident that finish this weekend we have learned as a team 
how to use it to our advan­
tage," Fantom said. 
Only two golfers on the
By REBECCA SLINGER 

team have played Macatawa
Sports Writer 

before but Fantom says they will "share their knowledge" 
Two days after a third about how the course will place finish at play. its home tour-Team cap­nament, Saint tain Katie Mary's will O'Brien will compete in its "We just need to not participate third MIAA eliminate bad shots for the second Jamboree of tournament in
and focus on
the season a row after
getting the ball to the
today at sitting out the Macatawa hole.'' Blackthorn L e g e n d s tournament Country Club this weekend
Meredith Fantom 
-an event due to an ill­
Belles sophomore 
hosted by ness. Instead, 
Hope College. sophomore 
Tri-State Alex Sei and 
and Olivet will freshman Kate 
be the teams to beat, the Doornbos will set the pace 
Belles said. Saint Mary's will for the Belles. Doornbos was 
look to improve upon the named Saint Mary's Athlete 
weekend results, and given of the Week for her leader­
their significant jump to the ship and strong performance 
top of the rankings (where during the MIAA Jamboree 
they currently sit in fourth) at Blackthorn. 
the Belles have proven their Sophomores Katie 
ability to beat out their top Mcinerney, Perri Hamma, 
opponents. Caroline 
Sophomore Doubeck and Meredith Fantom will Fantom feels also compete confident the "/am confident that we for Saint team, mental­Mary's.
will show these teams
ly and physi­"I know the 
cally rested just how good Saint team is 
from its one­Mary's is. " ready ... to day tourna­come out and ment this past shoot low,"
Meredith Fantom 
weekend, will Fantom said. 
Belles sophomore 
do well today. "I am confi­
"We all dent that we 
have areas to will show 
improve," she these teams 
said. "We just just how good 
need to eliminate bad shots Saint Mary's is." 
and focus on getting the ball 
to the hole." 

The 18-hole course in Contact Rebecca Slinger at 
Holland, Mich. is in a resi-rslingO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
EveryTuesday enjoy our specialty Sizzlelini with Chicken, Sausage or both. 
Frosty Bellinis only $2 
Try raspberry, green apple or peach. 
ALlAN KlTCHEN 
Unmistakably Italian \Unbelievably Good 
511 0 Edison lakes Parkway Mishawaka 574-271-1692 Reservations Accepted 

-

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, October 3, 2006 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
game. Saint Mary's will look to Ashley and Lauren Hinton to lead the attack. Ashley Hinton currently leads the MIAA with three assists and Lauren Hinton's two conference goals tie 
her for second behind Calvin senior Jill Capel. 
On Saturday the Belles played Kalamazoo and came away with a 2-1 victory despite not scoring any offensive goals. The Hornets scored two own 
goals, one in the first half and the game-winner in the 71st minute. The Belles managed to outshoot Kalamazoo 12-9­seven of which were on target. forcing goalkeeper Kassandra Johnston to make some big saves for the Hornets. 
"The game started a little slowly, but we picked up the intensity and created the oppor­tunities that made those goals happen," Saint Mary's senior Caroline Stancukas said. 
conference exhibition game. Albion scored an early goal and held on to beat the Belles 2-1. Saint Mary's 
started out sluggish in that game, allowing Britons freshman Allison Oatley to score in the first 10 minutes. Oatley went on to score again in the second half when a teammate's shot was deflected and she buried the rebound from a few yards out. 
"The fact that they have 

already be&t us this year I think will make them overconfident coming into the match tomor­row," Stancukas said. "We are much better prepared now to give them a tough game." 
Oatley has made an immediate impact and currently leads the Britons with 11 goals and three assists. 
The freshman-laden Belles 

"We learned a lot from our non-conference games and have corrected many mistakes in the last two 
games. 
Caroline Stancukas Belles forward 
defense will have their hands full trying to keep her off the scoreboard this time around. The group struggled early in the year with lapses in communication but has shown improvement since their first 

game with Albion -giving up only one goal in their last two contests. 
The young Belles will need to keep growing as they enter the toughest part of their schedule. Today's game will be the second of five consecutive conference road games. 
Senior goalkeeper Laura Heline -the veteran of the squad -has been a big part of their recent success. Heline has made 11 saves in the past two 
Saint Mary's "The fact that [Albion has] games to help 
and Albion met lead the team
already beat us this year I 
Sept. 6 in South to early MIAA Bend in a non­think will make them over-success. 
confident coming into the match tomorrow.'' 
Caroline Stancukas Belles forward 
The recent surge has boosted the once hurting team to a respectable 3-5 record. 
"We learned 

a lot from our non-conference games and have corrected many mistakes in the last two games. Our defense is tighter and our passing game has improved immensely," Stancukas said. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
To THE DEEP 


Irish quarterback Brady Quinn delivers a pass in Notre Dame's 3~21 win over Purdue. Quinn threw for 316 yards and 2 touch­downs Saturday against the Boilermakers. 
HalftiiDe 
continued from page 24 
slow start, but then we go into the locker room and come out better," forward Kerri Hanks said after Friday's win. 
The Irish have recovered from halftime deficits in three of their wins -against West Virginia, No. 3 Santa Clara and Ole Miss. Those are also the only games in which Notre Dame has allowed a goal. 
While major halftime adjust­ments have allowed the IriSh to come back in games they've trailed, smaller changes have allowed them to pull away. During Sunday's 5-0 home win over Pittsburgh, Notre Dame round the back or the net four times in the second half. 
"The only thing we addressPd [at half'timf1) was being more pfficient in the final third." Waldrum said Sunday. "I thought [in I the first half we created enough chancfJS -we just missed some opportunities on net." 
The coach said his players are committed to being able be on the field for the full 90 minutes, but also credits prided ourselves on being the Notre Damp's depth for its most fit team in the country. success this season, including Whether we are or not, I don't against the Panthers. know, but we work really hard Waldrum was able to rest at our fitness level and the 
starters who had played most of the game two days earlier against West Virginia without missing a beat. 
"I think you probably saw [the condition­ing] more Friday night," Waldrum kids are very com­mitted to that.
"We'd be up 3-0 
"I think in bigafter the first five games you start to 
minutes ifI had my see some separation 
at the end with
way." 
those guys." 
Waldrum also Randy Waldrum said experienced Irish seniors like
Irish coach 
defender Kim Lorenzen and mid­
a lot of wars," Waldrum said. "They know what to do when things are tight." 
While Notre Dame's condi­tioning, attitude and coaching adjustments have allowed it to pull games out in the second half, Waldrum said he would prefer the team to fire on all cylinders right out of the gate. 
"It's not intentional to score all these goals in the second half," he said. "We'd be up 3­0 after the first five minutes if I had my way." 
Notre Dame next plays Friday and Sunday at home against Seton Hall and Rutgers. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
said after Sunday's victory. "I think today we were able to run so many people in there. I didn't sub that much on Friday. We've always kind of fielder Jill Krivacek keep Notre Dame's younger players focused late in close games. 
"Our senior group has played in a lot of close games, 

Information Meeting 
Cairo, Egypt 

Tuesday, Oct. 3, 2006 
125 Hayes Healy 5:30pm-7:00pm 
Application deadline: November 15, 2006 Apply on-line: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
Tuesday, October 3, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
give the Wild Women a 6-0 important for Walsh, evening its tically flawless second half. these notions in the first half, lead. record at 2-2 and virtually Crehan caught another Baron and the defense made the early
Chicks 
Later in the half, Sullivan guaranteeing the team a playoff touchdown pass, while the scores hold up. scrambled into the end zone berth. It was also an emotional Finest capped the game with a The Pyros were elated about
continued from page 24 
from 15 yards out and passed lift for the Wild Women, who late touchdown reception by the victory and gave coach intercepted an errant Lewis for a successful two-point con­came off a draining, hard­Diane Duran. Nathan Dyer a celebratory pass, returning 30 yards for the version to extend the lead to 14 fought 6-0 loss to the Farley coach Mike Healy water bath after the final whis­score. Mo Spring caught th~ points. Cavanaugh Chaos. attributed his team's stellar tle blew. two-point conversion pass to The Wild Women never performance to perhaps the Pasquerilla East will face extend the lead for PW to 20-0. looked back. The defense held Farley 20, BP 6 influence of a greater being. Lyons on Tuesday with a playoff 
Still not finished, Pasquerilla the Lions scoreless by using On third down late in the first "We had a prayer service as a berth likely to be on the line, West was able to take the ball physical and aggressive play to half, Farley quarterback team last night, and God gave while Cavanaugh will play from the Chicks once more intimidate and frustrate the Brittany Baron threw a high, us the might to come out here Welsh Family in a battle to before the end of the half, lead­Lyons offense. lofting pass that was reeled in and beat BP today," said Healy, secure the division title. ing to a 10-yard touchdown Especially frustrating was on the one yard line with a one whose Finest moved to 2-2 after "We played really well today. pass on the last play of the half. Walsh's strategy of screaming handed, over-the-shoulder starting the season 0-2. We're so excited about the win, 
The Purple Weasels went into while rushing the passer. Early catch by receiver Annie Parret. For the Babes, things just but we have to win Tuesday to the break with a commanding in the first half, several Lions On the next play, Baron found weren't happening on either make the playoffs and that's 26-0 lead, scoring 20 points and returned to the sideline com­captain Kim Crehan on a screen side of the ball. still our goal," Adams said. sealing the game all within the plaining that this technique was for the touchdown with only 10 "We had no momentum," said final five minutes of the half. distracting. seconds left in the half. On the Babes co-captain and receiver Howard 20, McGlinn 0 
"The routes all seemed to be Lyons also committed six false conversion, Crehan caught a Megan Ohlenforst. "I feel like Howard improved to 2-2-1 there," Davies said. "We just get starts because of Walsh's dis­screen to take a 7-6 lead, and our team was on a different with a convincing victory over more confidence as the games tractions. These penalties the Finest never looked back, wavelength today." McGlinn this Sunday at the go on." helped to stagnate the Lion overcoming an early 6-0 deficit West Quad fields. The Ducks got 
Showing a lot of heart and offense, preventing the team to defeat rival Breen-Phillips PE 13, Cavanaugh 12 all the offense they would need determination, Lewis was able from getting any sort of 20-6 on Sunday. Pasquerilla East -winless on a Sheena Ketchum 1-yard to keep its poise in the second momentum. Crehan caught two touch­this season -scored on its first quarterback sneak in the first half, scoring a long touchdown Lyons continued to use its down passes, including the drive Sunday in an upset win half. to close the margin and shutting two-quarterback system on eventual game winner. over previously undefeated Despite entering halftime with out the explosive Pasquerilla Sunday, putting both Claire For most of the first half it Cavanaugh to capture its first a 7-0 deficit, the Shamrocks West offense for the entire sec­Connell and Maria Petnuch appeared as if Breen-Phillips victory of the season. had out-gained their opponents ond half. behind center at various times. was in control. On the Babes' The Pyros started the game in the first half, recording four 
This system yielded mixed second drive, quarterback and with the ball and came out first downs. Walsh 14, Lyons 0 results, as the offense was able co-captain Melissa Meagher strong, taking the lead 6-0 on a At the beginning of the second 
Walsh scored two touchdowns to gain yards, but not put up hooked up with receiver Tara touchdown pass from Laura half, it looked as if they would in the first half and dominated points. Johnson for the score. The con­Adams to Tara Pillai, quieting be able to get back into the Lyons all day long en route to a While the Walsh offense was version was no good, leaving the numerous Chaos fans. game, intercepting a pass deep bounce-back win. unable to score in the second the Babes with a 6-0 lead. After the ensuing Cavanaugh in Duck territory. 
The Wild Women started off half Sunday, the outcome of the Offensively, Farley struggled to position resulted in a three­But that would be the last strong when quarterback Mary game was not in doubt late get anything done for most of and-out, Adams again led her positive moment of the game for Claire Sullivan connected with because the Lions were unable the half, and it looked like it team to a touchdown, this time McGlinn. wide receiver Marie Brenner to muster up any offensive pro­would head into halftime down on a pass to Laura Hansen. The Howard defensive back Laura for a long touchdown on the duction. six points. score, which was followed by a Plis picked off the Shamrocks third play from scrimmage to The victory was extremely Farley went on to play a prac-successful one-point-conversion pass and returned it 60 yards 
Want a place to relax after the exciting NO games? 
House for rent. Sleeps 7-9, water front, fireplace, kitchen. Beautiful, quiet setting. $1800/weekend. 
This house is only for those who want solitude and quiet after the game. 
Can send pictures via email. Contact: Nekvasil05@comcast.net (or] 269-687-8882 

attempt, put the Pyros up 13-0. 
The Chaos offense was largely limited to the scrambling of quarterback Katie Dunn, who had 5 rushes for more than 15 yards each. Cavanaugh was plagued by dropped passes throughout the game, an issue the coaching staff tried to address at half time. 
Dunn led her team to two touchdowns, but it was not enough to lead the Chaos to vic­tory. After scoring the second touchdown in the second half to pull to a 13-12 deficit, Cavanaugh opted to go for two points and the lead over going for one point and the tie. However, a Dunn pass was tipped and broken up by the Pyro defense, which came through in the clutch through­out the second half. 
Entering the game, Cavanaugh was the runaway favorite to dominate. 
But the Pyro offense dispelled 
BLOCKING SCHEMES 

Coffee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, October 3 7:30-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Councillor Gay and Lesbian Students invites gay. lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame tam1ly, their friends, and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
EveJY(lne is welcome and confldeotmlity 1s assured. 


CORE COUNC!t 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 

for the touchdown to increase the lead to 13-0. 
The second half was all Howard. The Duck defense sti­fled the Shamrock offense, not allowing a single first down. 
"Our defense played amazing today -you can't really ask any more from them," said Ketchum, who, in addition to her touchdown run, had a great game throwing the ball and led a balanced offensive attack. "The 0-line and the receivers showed up to play today -they really made my job easy," she added. 
Howard sealed the deal with three minutes remaining on a Beth Gribble touchdown run. The conversion was no good, but the game was still put out of reach at 20-0. 
Contact Andrew Kovach at akovach@nd.edu, John Tierney at jtiemel@nd.edu and Vmce Keneally at vkeneally@nd.edu 

Irish tight end John Carlson and right tackle Sam Young stand up Spartans defensive end Justin Kershaw in Notre Dame's 40-37 win on Sept. 23 in East Lansing, Mich. 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 3, 2006 
Fowler 
continued from page 24 
come through Honeybaked ­he's a genuinely nice person. [Notre Dame is going to I love the way he plays." 
Honey baked I Iockey had four of its former players in the NHL last season and more than 40 current Division !-hockey play­ers have called the Oak Park, Mich., club home. Irish seniors Jason Paige and Josh Sciba played for Honeybaked, along with should look at -Fowler," Knapp said. 

And Slaggert not only looked, but convinced the elite prospect to join Gaul and a superb six­man recruit class for 2007-08 and an Irish program that is in the early stages of a complete overhaul under second-year coach Jackson. 
Fowler will play for the U.S. National Under-17 team next year and for the Under-18's the year after to prepare for his enrollment in the fall of 2009. 
"It's a great program and it's 
a really good 
place to 
develop all 

sophomore "He's always been a good your skills," Fowler said
Erik Condra player, but it's been in the 
and 2006 of the
past year that really he's 
graduate Chris national Trick. started to generate a lot program. 
While his "And you get 
ofinterest." 
father, Perry the overseas Fowler, said he experience, always knew Perry Fowler to play inter­how talented recruit's father nationally in 
his son was, only recently has Cam blos­somed into a defenseman who has been hot on the keyboards of the country's top college hockey analysts, he said. 
"He's always been a good player, but it's been in the past year that really he's started to generate a lot of interest," Perry Fowler said. "Did I ever have expectations like this for him? Absolutely not. It's some­thing that's evolved over time." 
Cam Fowler said he was told by the Irish coaching staff that he would be offered a scholar­ship, but he had as much time as he wanted to make his deci­sion. He made the choice soon after a visit to campus during the Penn State football week­end. 
"I chose Notre Dame because they have a great coaching staff there with [head coach] Jeff Jackson. [associate head coach] Paul Pooley and [assis­tant coach] Andy Slaggert," Fowler said. ''I'm excited about where their hockey program is going over the next few years." 
Perry Fowler said that Cam's decision to choose Notre Dame was his own and that both his parents supported him 100 percent. He made sure, howev­er, that his son was aware of all his options. 
"Everything else about Notre Dame is the icing on the cake after the world class academ­ics, the campus and the sup­port staff for the student ath­letes," Perry Fowler said. "Everything about it is first rate. After our second unoffi­cial visit to Notre Dame, he said, 'Dad, this is where I want to go."' 
Knapp spoke with Slaggert at the Michigan state playoffs last spring, where Slaggert asked if there were any Honeybaked players he should take a closer look at. 
"I told him I have one you 
WIDESCREEN FORMAT 
the tourna­
ments and 

obviously representing the USA and wearing the U.S. jersey." 
But Fowler is only 14 years old and has hundreds of hours of ice time between now and the first time he dons the Irish jersey. 
"We see him at Notre Dame being part of a program that's on the rise -hopefully it will be national championship con­tender," Perry Fowler said when asked where he sees his son in five years. "We're not looking anywhere beyond that." 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
October 5 
So You Want to Fund Your Research Project: UROP and Other Avenues of Funding 
1 1 9 O'Shaugnessy Hall 
Contact information: Office of Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE 'DAME 



KATE FENLON/The Observer 

Irish running back Darius Walker, center, runs upfield with help from his blockers while pursued by Boilermaker defenders in Notre Dame's 35-21 win over Purdue Saturday. 
! 
' 
l 
L 
Tuesday, October 3, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE

JOCULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 

CROSSAINTWORLD 
COO~ HAHA 1 "'TkiS 
AHA\-\ A 1-\AH A:I-\ "'1-tAH A! ..,.-KA"T' GtoT R.EAW-.j

Ol<;A~, I lo\AVE To 
0' 

C-I~~E.. \'S.N"I SO C::roOC>'. 
oooo! I I'M so 'S~ C~e:.EP~ , F-~U...."(

brt..,P..W "fl..\\S ON 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 28 Conclude 66 Shady retreat negotiations
Frank _, 67 Bumbler leader of the 33 Large feather 
68 Overfull Mothers of 37 Knights 
69 Horses of aInvention 
38 Unadorned certain color 6 High Ottoman 
39 Second chance 

official for viewers DOWN 
11 Boeing 747, e.g. 
40 Scheduling abbr. 

1 Zoo equine 14 Hawke of 41 Ambulance 
2 Consumed Hollywood sound 
eagerly 15 Speck in the 42 Egg-shaped 
3 Developmental sea 43 Smelting waste 
stage 16 Lode deposit 44 Rand McNally 
4 Trajectories product
17 Keep cool 5 Gambler's stake 
45 Be just what's 

19 Break a 6 Word with cutie 
needed

Commandment or sweetie 48 "So there!" 
20 Fraternity 7 _ Wednesday
49 11-pointer, inhopeful 8 Whole bunchblackjack21 Twisted in pain 9 Cozy spots by 

50 Slugger Willie 23 Gorillas and the fire 
54 Woolen blankets

such 10 Get-up
58 "In" group 

24 "The most 11 Tease
60 (The) bug trusted name in 

12 Lake nearelectronics" 61 Be a lulu Niagara Falls Puzzle by Lynn Lempel sloganeer, once 64 B-ball official 
35 Eurasia's 50 Small: Prefix 56 Backtalk 27 Three: Prefix 65 Amazed Mountains 
13 Watch over 51 Mideast's Gulf 
18 and now 57 Trick-taking
36 Islamic leader of

22 Morsel game with 32 ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

41 Actor Mineo 52 1890's gold cards25 Fairy tale rush destination
dwelling 43 Doo-wop group 
59 Mad king of the that sang in 53 Prophets

26 "Arabian Nights" stage
"Grease"

hero 54 Place to stick a 62 Female sheep 46 In other words comb, once
28 Upper house member: Abbr. 47 Polish Nobelist 55 Pet's tiny 63 Newsman Walesa tormentor Koppel
29 Heartbreaking 
30 British nobleman For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
31 Zone Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday~~~~gnm~ ngru~··· 32 Optical device crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
!-;-IR-:-+.:+;,;..t-~~,:+;,:+,;,+,;,....,;,~+;,:.B 33 Grad student's Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 mentor 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). -=+~:::+::-i 34 Big name in Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young denim solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
MORGO 
j
I I [ I I 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
LOUFT 
I [ J In 

PUSHTY ..

I I I 
www.jumble.com 
DIFOMY 

[IJ I I Print answer here: rI I I J"[ I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: COUPE KHAKI SNITCH SONATA 
Yesterday's Answer: 

For the champ, it was a good night for­"KNOCKOUTS" 

THE: STRE:e:T PE:D­
DL£:1<.'5 WAR£:5 W£:1<.£: ALWAYS--­

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise a·nswer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ayumi Hamaski, 28; Kelly Ripa. 36; Lorraine Bracco, 52; Sting, 55 
Happy Birthday: You have charm, grace and good fortune this year that will see you through anything that comes your way. Your inventive mind will find solutions and come up with ideas you can tum into a profit. It's action that will bring results, not just coming up with ideas and putting them on the shelf. Your numbers are 2, 9, 15, 21, 24, 36 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Everything will center on relationships and partnerships today. Both in business and your personal life you will have to make decisions about your direction and the people with whom you surround yourself. 4 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Keep your nose to the ground and your mind on what needs to be done. You can't win emotionally, so don't bother trying. Someone you are close to will be overreacting. It will be a challenging day. 2 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't be too quick to make alterations to your plans. You aren't the one who needs to accommodate and, if you hold your ground and follow through with your plans, you will reign supreme. Love is in a high cycle. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): There is a deal to be had but you have to stop wasting time changing your mind. Make a decision and stick to it and you will see how profitable it can tum out to be. Change is inevitable so stop fighting it. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Confusion, deception and a lack of loyalty can affect your day if you aren't on top of things. Don't let an emotional matter cause you to miss out on something that could potentially bring you high returns. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Worrying will not solve anything but focusing on the task at hand will. Put yourself on the line and work diligently. Today is about learning, exploring and doing the best job possible. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Personally, creatively and socially you will shine and, if you are prepared to promote and present, you will get the reaction you are hoping for. Now is not the day to procrastinate --take action. 5 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Everything appears to be running smoothly but someone will try to throw a wrench your way. Be careful not to divulge too much. Both your personal and professional life need to be protected. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Go after your goals and don't be surprised by who 
-.
helps you and who doesn't. Rely on yourself and you won't be disappointed by the results you get. Business advancement is looking very positive. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may be led on a wild goose chase today. Try to take care of matters by phone and email and avoid a costly trip. Be wise in the way you ask for things and listen carefully to what's being offered. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A moneymaking deal or a chance to invest in one of your ideas will pay off. Collect an old debt or pay off what you owe. This is not the day to squander but rather to settle money matters once and for all. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): There will be lots going on where partnerships are concerned but make sure you are aware of all the details. Someone may not be forthcoming so do your own research. A unique approach to money and investments will pay off today. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You have a unique approach to life and a vivid imagination that allows you to envision things far beyond even your own expectations. You are charming, hard to resist and very popular. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your horne. 
.. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________ ___ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Tuesday, October 3, 2006 
page 24 
HOCKEY 

Irish snag top defenseman for Class of 2013 
By KYLE CASSILY Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame received a verbal commitment Sept. 19 from Cam Fowler -the first commit for the Class of 2013 -just five weeks after the team secured highly regarded Class of 2012 forward Patrick Gaul from the 
U.S. National Team. 
Fowler, a defenseman from Farmington Hills, Mich., chose Notre Dame over Michigan and Ohio State in the beginning of his freshman year of high school. He currently plays for 
INTERHALL 
By COLIN REIMER, MATT 
HOPKE and AMY DIXON 
Sports Writers 
With an opportunity to clean up the playoff picture Sunday, Knott and Sorin threw a wrench into the works when their game ended in a 6-6 tie. 
"To us. this is a loss," Knott captain Matt Crosson said. "We feel like we have the talent to win every game, so this was a disappointment." 
Knott struggled throughout the game to find any semblance of an offense, posting a meager 51 yards of total offense, 23 of which came on scrambles by quarterback Justin Betz. 
see TIE/page 18 

the Honeybaked AAA Hockey Club's midget minor team in the Midwest Elite Hockey League, an organization he has played with for the past seven years. 
Honeybaked general manager Larry Knapp described Fowler as a big and tall blue-liner with a smooth stride and great hands. Knapp praised Fowler's vision and said he is adept at making breakout passes out of the defensive zone. 
"[Fowler is] just, in my opin­ion, the best defenseman in the league," Knapp said. "And watching some of the other teams play in nationals, it looks like Cam is arguably one of the best players in his age group, period." 
The 6-foot-1-inch, 180-pound 14-year-old led his lloneybaked Bantam team last year to the Michigan State Finals, where the team lost to Belle Tire. He then impressed scouts at the USA Hockey Select 15 Festival in St. Cloud, Minn., where he scored one goal and three assists in five games. 
"[Notre Dame _is] very lucky to get Cam," Knapp said. "He's not only one of the best players to 
see FOWLER/page 22 


The final countdown 


By ANDREW KOVACH, JOHN TIERNEY and VINCE KENEALLY Sports Writers 
Pasquerilla West continued its winning ways Sunday by defeating Lewis 26-6, thanks to a scoring flurry at the end of the first half. 
Leading 6-0 with less than five minutes left in the first half, a huge pass from quarter­back Cara Davies down the field set up a 15-yard touch­down strike to extend the lead to two scores. 
Immediately following the touchdown pass, Purple Weasel defensive back Brigid Bulfin 
see CHICKS/page 21 
SMC SoccER 
Belles look to succeed at Albion 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's, currently 2-0 in conference play, can move into a tie for first place in the MIAA Conference with a win at Albion 

· this afternoon. Albion will be another tough defensive challenge for the Belles -the Britons allow an average of only 1.31 goals per 
see BELLES/page 20 

NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Notre Dame thrives in second half 

No. 1 team has scored 28 goals after the break 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
At halftime of last Friday's contest against No. 6 West Virginia, No. 1 Notre Dame trailed 1-0 and had seen most of the game played in front of its own net. 
As the team went to the lock­er room, however, coach Handy Waldrum knew what needed to be changed. He told 
PHIL HUDELSONfThe Observer sophomore forward Brittany 

Irish striker Kerri Hanks runs upfield against Panthers defender Bock to look for the ball early 
Katie Surma in Notre Dame's 5-0 win Sunday at Alumni Field. in Irish counterattacks and dis­
tribute from the middle of the field. 
The adjustment worked like a charm, allowing Notre Dame to outshoot the Mountaineers 19-3 and score three goals in the second half en route to a 3­1 victory. 
The second half dominance was nothing new for the Irish (11-0, 4-0 Big East), who have outscored opponents 28-0 after the break this year. 
The lopsided differential after halftime has been espe­cially crucial because Notre Dame has only led four of its 11 games at the half. 
"We always seem to have a 
see HALFTIME/page 20 


WOMEN'S INTERHAll
SMC GOlf 
ND WOMEN'S GOlf 
NBA 
Nfl 
NHl 
w 
Pasquerilla East looks 
The Pacers are excited 
NHL players file a

u MIAA Jamboree Marilynn Smith Philadelphia 31 
to make the playoffs 
to start the new season
z 
lawsuit against union
Sunflower Green Bay 9 
with a new team atti­
with a win tonight at 9 
executive director Ted
lnvitaional 

McNabb scores four
=:5 
tude.
p.m. at Riehle Fields 
Saskin.

The Belles look to con-
touchdowns in Eagles
~ 
against Lyons. 

tinue to succeed against The Irish are in third win 
=: Cl 

MIAA opponents today. 
place, 15 strokes back of current leader Kansas. 

en 
page 19 page 15page 19 page 16
page 17 
page 16 






