
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 54 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15,2006 
Play, groups examine sexual assault 

Post-peiformance panel searches for solutions 
By KATHLEEN McDONNELL 
News Writer 

In thp, second of three post­performance panels, the stu­dent-organized production "Loyal Daughters" sparked a discussion about sexuality and assault at Notre Dame Tuesday. 
History professor Gail Bederman moderated the dis­cussion between anthropology professor James Bellis, Annie Envall from the S-0-S Rape Crisis Center, theology professor Robin Young and "Loyal Daughters" author Emily Weisbecker. About 50 people remained after the performance to hear and participate in the talk, which lasted for a little over an hour. 
see PANEL/page 9 
DUSTIN MENNELLNThe Observer 
Cast members of "Loyal Daughters" perform in the skit "Loyal Children," which describes episodes of sexual assault at Notre Dame. 
Nw committee works to extend dialogue 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 

When University President Father John Jenkins formed an ad hoc committee on gender relations last spring, he asked the group to foster a "wide­ranging discussion" on sexual assault within the Notre Dame community -a task widely viewed as necessary after "The Vagina Monologues" launched a campus-wide dialogue about rape and assault. 
Six months later, the adminis­trators, professors and students involved say they've continued to promote that dialogue, but they hope to do more. 
"We've had a very good con­versation among the whole 
see AD HOC/page 6 
Sexual Assault Advisory Committee aims to increase resources, awareness 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Editor 

Amidst the flurry of conver­sation about the student­organized play "Loyal Daughters," the Sexual Assault Advisory Committee has steadily worked off the stage and out of the spotlight to increase awareness and education about similar issues of assault and rape at the University. 
"Sexual assault is a press­ing issue on all college cam­puses, Notre Dame included," student body president Lizzi Shappell said. "We must give more attention to this issue." 
And for the past six years, the committee has met to dis­cuss ways to do just that. 
Formed in the fall of 2000 by Associate Vice President for Residence Life and cur­rent co-chair Bill Kirk, the committee's goal is clear-to increase students' awareness of campus and community resources for victims of sexu­al assault. 
The committee advises the Office of Student Affairs about sexual assault, rape education and prevention and "spearheads a variety of edu­cational initiatives and pro­grams," Associate Vice President for Student Affairs and co.,-chair Ann Firth said. 
"It also assists Student Affairs in ensuring that University resources are in place for those who have been victimized," she said, adding that the facilitation of 
"collaboration and communi­cation" among those working to address sexual violence on this campus is· a central goal. 
And, following their Nov. 3 meeting-their first of the year-it became clear that much of this communication will now be done with the help of the newly-launched "Resources for Victims of Rape and Sexual Assault" Web site. 
The committee hopes that this site, which can be accessed through the Student Affairs Web site, will be one of the biggest transmitters of information about sexual assault to the wider campus community. 
The group is now focusing on critiquing and evaluating the Web site to make it as 

Bengal Bouts presents donation 
Former organizer gives check, supports upcoming Baraka Bout~ 
By RYAN SYDLIK News Writer 
The $52,000 check was the most valuable piece of paper Nathan Schroeder ever held before he presented it to Father Tom Smith Tuesday morning outside of Moreau Seminary. 
The check was the total pro­ceeds of last year's men's Bengal Bouts boxing tournament, and brought the annual charity event to full circle. 
"We are really happy with the total that we got last year," Schroeder, a 2006 Notre Dame graduate and last year's presi­
see BOUTS/page 6 


accessible and informative as possible, Firth said. 
Members will be carefully examining the Web site in coming weeks "to help us improve and expand it, so that it will truly be helpful to students," she said. 
The creation of a Web site is an important step forward in terms of making the cam­pus community aware of the many resources the University has in place to assist students, Firth said. 
The informational site fea­tures emergency contact information -for everyone from Notre Dame Security/Police, University Health Services and the University Counseling Center 
see ASSAULT/page 8 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
University confirms dorm plans 
Construction set to begin in March '07 
By STEVE KERINS News Writer 

University officials announced earlier this year that planning is underway for the construction of four new residence halls, the first of which will be finished in time for the 2008-09 school year. 
Jim Lyphout, Vice President of Business Operations, said last week that construction will begin on the first dorm in March 2007, and it will be ready to house students by August of the following year. 
Lyphout said the dorm will be located between McGlinn Hall and Holy Cross Drive, in an area presently occupied by volleyball 
courts and field space. He added that the building is not expected to adversely affect students' opportunities for outdoor recre­ation. 
"The only loss will be the vol­leyball courts, and they'll be replaced elsewhere," he said. 
Lyphout said the first resi­dence hall will house men, but others planned for the future will serve women. 
"[Women's dormsJ will be also part of the plan, but this is all very much fundraising-depend­ent," he said. 
The planned residence hall will hold about 235 students, but Lyphout said the University does not intend to increase enrollment to fill it. 
"It's part of a plan to reduce the density in existing residence halls and bring a few off-cam­pus students back to campus," 
see DORMS/page 9 

'Tradition' shirt sales break all-time record 
More than $500,000 have been raisedfor charity 
By PATRICK CASSIDY 
News Writer 

As the Irish ascend in the BCS rankings, a Notre Dame football tradition is finding success as well. As of Tuesday, more than 155,000 units of The Shirt had been purchased -its highest total ever. 
The historic 2002 "Return to Glory" Shirt sold nearly 135,000 units. 
Well over $500,000 has been earned for The Shirt Charity Fund, putting the total earned since it was founded in 1990 more than $4 million. 
"The popularity of the shirt is reflective of the excitement sur­rounding the football program and their suc­cess," Sal1y Wiatrowski, director of retails operations at the Hammes Bookstore, said. "This is the best-selling shirt since its inception" 
Rich Fox, president of The Shirt Project 2006, said he was "extremely happy about the nearly 50 percent increase over the last year," and was pleased to be able to play a role in mak­
see SHIRT/page 6 

page 2 The Observer • PAGE 2 Wednesday, November 15, 2006 
---------------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------~--­
INSIDE COLUMN 


Gone before I get going 
-I had it all planned. I was going to be Toby Ziegler. President Bartlet's Communications Diredor on "The West Wing." I was so certain. I would go to Notre Dame for undergrad, law school, gain entry jobs Ch . H" 
. 0 c d r1s me
workingm .. an then work my way 

Sports
up until I was the 

Production
main speechwriter 

Editor
for the President, and then call it a career. The next 40 years of my life was all set. 
I guess in previous years of my life I was too caught up in the idealistic nature of politics portrayed in 'The West Wmg" to really grasp what was going on in real­ity. The show showed government as a noble ealling. Sure, there are people who are greedy and out to crush anybody who stands in their way, but you get that in every career. At the end of the day, principle trumped ambition and the good guys usually won. 
Then along came this year's midterm elections. 
I realize now that creator Aaron Sorkin was not reflecting the reality of govern­ment life; rather, he was showing what it could and should be like. 
Since the show is now off the air, I have had to get my political drama from real life, and what I have seen has changed what I want to do with the rest ofmy life. 
In the Congressional race between Joe Donnelly and Chris Chocola, both sides were slinging the mud hack and forth in a campaign that focused more on tax fil­ings than issues. When the ads actually focused on the issues, attacks were blown out of proportion. 
Then. a few days before the election, John Kerry botched a joke in an attempt to insult President Bush's intelligence. Many accused Kerry of insulting American troops with his misinterpreted remarks. It was bad enough that you had a fom1er presidential candidate reducing himseU' to taking pot shots at the President, but what made it worse was the Bush administration's reaction to Kerry's remarks. Instead of accepting the fact that Kerry's words came out wrong and taking the high road in the process, Press Secretary Tony Snow and the President himself played into the percep­tion that Kerry was insulting the troops. Their remarks in response to Kerry's comments deliberately tried to skew the truth in an attempt to score a few politi­cal points. 
The whole snafu reminded me of a conversation between two characters on "The West Wmg" over the political rami­fications of the President disliking green beans. The staff was considering i'isuing an apology to Oregon, the nation's lead­ing green bean producer. 
C.J: It's because everybody's dumb in an election year. Charlie. 
Charlie: No. everyonejust gets treated dumb in an election year. (conversation paraphrased.) 
Everyone from the President on down, in both parties, insulted our intelligence this past election cycle, and they should be smarter than that. As for me, who knows? I still like studying the hic;tory of government, despite my disenchantment with today's politics. Maybe I'll teach. Yeah, I know the saying, "Those who can't do, teach," but the question is not whether I can "do" politics, rather, it is, why would I want to? 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH DEPARTMENT HAS THE HOTTEST STUDENTS? 

Bright Dike  Evelyn Hyder  Jarett DeAngelis  Jesse Goliath  Kate Moder  Katie Rooney  
sophomore O'Neill  senior Farley  grad student offcampus  senior O'Neill  sophomore McGlinn  junior Howard  
..Maybe not Engineering. but definitely Arts and  "Arts and Letters, because ofthe Music Theory people  "I wish they could all be Architecture girls."  "First Year of Studies. because it's a change of  "Business, because that's where the athletes are."  ..Arts and Letters. I mean, is there really any contest?"  






,,

Letters. alone." scenery., 
California couple accused of airplane indecency 
RALEIGH, N.C. -A California couple are facing federal charges after they refused to stop "overt sexual activity" during a flight to Raleigh, authorities said. Carl Warren Persing of Lakewood, Calif., and Dawn Elizabeth Sewell of Huntington Beach, Calif., are accused of interfer­ing with flight crew members during a Sept. 15 Southwest 
Airlines  flight  from  Los  
Angeles  with  a  stop  in  
Phoenix.  

According to court docu­ments, flight attendants saw Persing and Sewell kissing, embracing and "acting in a 
TODAY 
a:: 
L&.l 
:c 
~ 
L&.l 
3: 
... 
c( 
(.) 0 



that the deer replica in her yard was destroyed in the attack that happened Sunday about 6:45 p.m., according to Capt. Dave Adams of the Sheboygan County Sheriff's Department. 
Hesselink told authorities a buck took on its ceramic counterpart. 
A deputy who went to the scene found "obvious track marks" that supported Hesselink's account, Adams said Monday. 
Among the damage, the head of the ceramic deer was knocked off. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
manner that made other pas­sengers uncomfortable" while the plane was stopped in Phoenix. Persing was observed kissing Sewell near her breast and was also observed with his face pressed against Sewell's lower body. 
A flight attendant asked them to stop. They obeyed initially but resumed the behavior during the flight. 
Ceramic deer no match for real counterpart 
OOSTBURG, Wis. -A ceramic deer came out the loser when attacked by the real thing. Ruth Hesselink of the town of Holland reported 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 

.... HIGH 48 HIGH 40 HIGH 43 HIGH 43 LOW 37 LOW 37 LOW 30 LOW 28 IN BRIEF 

There is an Armed Forces Blood Drive today from 1 to 6 
p.m. in the Navy Wardroom in Pasquerilla Center. All blood collected supports military servicemen and women. The drive is sponsored by the Tri­Military ·ROTC Command at Notre Dame. 
As part of the University's celebration of International Education Week, a Fairly­Traded Gifts Event will run today through Thursday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in LaFortune Student Center's Dooley Room. It features handcrafts, available for pur­chase, from developing coun­tries and offers an opportuni­ty to learn more about Fair Trade practices and the arti­sans who produce these goods. 
The film ..Nuremberg, Its Lessons for Today" will be shown tonight at 7 in the Browning Cinema at the DPAC. After the screening, Sandra Schulberg, film pro­ducer and daughter of "Nuremberg's" director, Stuart Schulberg, will discuss the controversies surrounding the film. This is a free but ticketed event. 
Diego Abente Brun, former senator of Paraguay and Kellogg Institute Visiting Fellow, will give the lecture "Between a Rock and a Hard Place: Dilemmas of Democracy in a Small South American Country" Thursday at 4:15 p.m. in C-103 Hesburgh Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsn ews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 40 HIGH 42 LOW 30 LOW 27 
Atlanta 63 I 50 Boston 64 I 50 Chicago 45 I 37 Denver 47 I 19 Houston 66 I 59 Los Angeles 82 I 56 Minneapolis 37 1 31 New York 63 I 53 Philadelphia 65 I 50 Phoenix 80 I 53 Seattle 48 I 39 St. Louis 49 I 43 Tampa 83 I 56 Washington 66 1 44 
. . ' 
Wednesday, November 15, 2006 page 3
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Steves expresses value of international experience 
By JOE PIARULLI 
Assistant News Editor 

Rick Steves, PBS personality and syn­dicated columnist, has literally made the world his classroom, playing the roles of both student and teacher. He assumed the latter Tuesday in front of a large group ofstudents and community members in the Jordan Auditorium. 
University President Father John Jenkins introduced Steves, his brother­in-law, as a man who "made his pas­sion and joy his work," and does so in a morally responsible way. "The Value of Travel in Shaping a Global Perspective" was Steves' second lecture of the week, the first held on Monday in McKenna Hall. 
Before describing his travel experi­ences, Steves explained his own global perspective, especially with regard to politics. 
"If it does take courage to speak out on something, that's all the more rea­son to speak out on it," he said. "A<> a society,, we face some major chal­1enges. 
Steves said he believes the greatest risks to America are from the in.<>ide. As individuals, he said, we have a respon­sibility to try and do what's right. 
"I don't believe there are innocent civilians," he said. 
Steves spoke his mind on issues that he said are "healthy to address and fun to address," including military power and the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, which he said should not discourage people from traveling. 
Travel, Steves said, was an important part of what shaped his understanding ofthe world. 
Steves first traveled to Europe with his family when he was 14-years-old. Initially skeptical of the idea, he soon embraced the experience and has trav­eled ever since. 
"The quality of the travel experience can change you," he said. 
Travel can provide completely new interpretations of the past and of cul­tures, according to Steves. 
"History becomes a living thing," he said. 
One aspect of travel Steves described as "fundamental" was the opportunity to meet a wide variety ofindividuals. 
"I meet more people in a month in Europe than I do in a year at home," he said. 
Steves said he enjoys how travel "messes up" his ethnocentricity. All over the world, heroic struggles are taking place, he said, and it would be dangerous for us to be mindless pro­ducers and consumers. 
A man who has traveled from France to India to Japan, Steves celebrates diversity and encourages others to do the same. 
Traveling, he said, has let him see the vast divisions between rich and poor, how other people view America and how they view government in general. 
Some people, he said, feel steam­rolled by McDonald's and Western val­ues, but that does not mean they dislike Americans. 
Steves said he supports Notre Dame's foreign study programs and the valu­able, spontaneous experiences they can provide. 
"This world is so surprising," he said. 
Contact Joe Piraulli at jpiarull@nd.edu 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group discusses budget, voting 
By KATHLEEN 
McDONNELL 
News Writer 

Members of the Council of Representatives (COR) discussed the upcoming budget reallocation and the plans to increase par­ticipation in student body elections during the group's Tuesday night meeting in LaFortune. 
With student groups requesting over $800,000 for last spring's annual budget allocation hearing despite $481,243.06 avail­able in'total funds, "pretty much everyone is unhappy with the allocation," Student Union treasurer Steve Friend said. 
Every year student groups have a chance to request additional funds, and the Financial Management Board (FMB) reviews each group's spending and allots any left over money in January as it sees fit. 
As a "result of conserva­tive estimation for the number of students paying student activities fees," Friend said, $41,037.80 is available for this January. 
"We'd obviously like to reallocate the full amount, because we understand groups have made conces­sions in that regard," Friend said. 
After Student Union 
Board (SUB) manager Pat 
Vassel drew attention to 
the Jack of Student Union 
technology funds, Friend 
said one of his priorities is 
to replenish the nearly 
wiped out account. 
"This year we had unforeseen needs, now it's basically tapped out," he explained. "Personally I think it would be a wise decision to put some funds in there." 
After the budget discus­sion, Judicial Council pres­ident Liz Kozlow outlined her plans to increase voter participation this year. One new initiative includes an election committee to help assist with publicity as a means to increase involve­ment. 
According to Kozlow, voter incentives are crucial to increasing participation. 
"We've learned that if you give people free food, they'll do what you say," she noted. 
With that in mind, the Council has plans to offer Krispy Kreme donuts and, possibly. Chipotle burritos to voters. Kozlow also said the Council is working with Anthony Travel to put together a free spring break trip for a few lucky participants. 
Publicity and easy access are the other two impor­tant components to 
increasing voter particpa­tion, Kozlow explained. Posters in each dorm will announce the election dates, as well as facts about each position. 
Kozlow is also working to have computers avail­able in Mendoza, Debartolo and possibly Lafortune for students vot­ing. 
In other COR news 

+ Continuing with Shappell's organization spotlight initiative, Friend gave a brief presentation on the composition of the FMB, calling it "a gather­ing of the CFOs [Chief Financial Officers] from all the big groups on cam­pus." 
He gave a rundown on FMB approvals, sources of funds, the annual alloca­tion hearing and the afore­mentioned spending review process each January. 
+ 
The council confirmed junior Anthony Dayrit as Vice President of Elections, part of the Judicial Council. 

+ 
Off-campus President Spencer Fenm is looking into non-students often fill­ing the designated off­campus parking lot. 


Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 

Fall 2006 Schedule 
Experience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some ofthe most pressing issues ofour times. 

"Seeds o[Change" ~ 9/9-Penn State "More l11an a Movie? A~sessing The Drl Vinci Lode" (101 DeBartolo Hall)
A Musical Performance James Collins, Professor ~fFilm, Telet,ision, and Theatre Mary Rose D'Angelo, Associate Professor of Theology Charles Barber, Associate Pr~fe.uor ofArt, Art History, and Design 
Georgine Resick, soprano ~ 9/16-Mkhigan "l11e Impact of the Dead Sea Scrolls on Our Bible" -..J Eugene Ulrich, Rev. john A. O'Brien Professor ofTheology
Professor ofMusic 
~ 9/30-Purdue "Successful Aging"
John Blacklow, piano 
Cindy Bergeman, Chair and Professor ofPsychology Assistttnt Professor ofMusic 
~ I 0/7 -Stanford ''The Bone Collector" Susan Sheridan, Associate Professor ofAnthropology 
~ 10/21-UCLA "Completing the Constitution: The 14rh Amendment"~ Michael Zuckert, Nancy Reeves Dreu.x Professor ofPolitical Science
11:00 a.m. 
Saturday, November 18 ~ 11/4-North Carolina "The Role of Religion in Peacebuilding" R Scott Appleby, ProfeJsor ofHistory, john lvf. Regan Jr.
Annenberg Auditorium 
Director ofthe joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies
Snite Museum ofArt 
John Paul Lederach, Professional Specialist, Kroc Institute 
A. Rashied Omar, Assistant Professioual !)pecialist, Kroc Institute 
~ 11/18-Army "Seeds ofChange" AMusical Performance "Seeds of Change," a program of French music from the Georgine Resick, Professor ofMusic first half ofthe 19th century, includes works by Berlioz, John Blacklow, Assistant Professor ofMusic 
Chopin, Liszt, Gounod, and Saint-Saens, as well as spoken 3-1/2 hours before kickoflin the Annenberg Audirorium, 
cmnmentary drawing parallels between the music of the Snite Museum ofAn (unless otherwise noted). For more information, visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu
period and concurrent trends in literature, the visual arts, social history, and politics. 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 

Wednesday, November 15, 2006 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Alumna raises dogs to guide the blind 
By LAURA WILCZEK 
News Writer 
Notre Dame law student Shanin Leeming's love for ani­mals led her to a perfect -ifnot unique -job. She trains dogs for the blind. 
Leeming has raised future guide dogs since the age of 12, seeing it as a fun mix of caring for an animal and serving the community. 
Her job consists of caring for a seven to eight-week-old puppy and training it to be a guide dog, which includes, "housebreaking, socialization, house manners and basic commands," Leeming said. 
Out of all the tasks, Leeming stressed socializa­tion as the most important. 
"A guide dog has to be comfortable in any place that a blind person would want to go. That is why I have to take them to class, on buses, boats, grocery stores and any other place I can think of," she said. 
Leeming said she had been anticipating con­tinuing her work with guide dogs as a sophomore at 
Notre Dame, and even garnered the support of her rector. Dorm rules. however. stood in the way. and the Office of Residence life and Housing denied her request to raise a dog on campus on the grounds that dorm life, "would not be fair for the dog," Leeming said. 
The University states in duLac that animals are explicitly pro­hibited in dorms. The University's policy frustrated Leeming because "it did not make sense that a rector could have a dog for a pet, but that a service animal in training would not be allowed," she said. Leeming said she wishes the University would reconsider its policy on animals in this unique case. 
"[I] think it would be wonderful if Notre Dame decided to support the raising of guide dogs," she said. 
Leeming also pointed out that she has "heard of schools who are very supportive and who have multiple people raising dogs on their campus." 
Due to the lack of support, Leeming stopped raising guide dogs for the next three years while she lived on campus. After graduation, however, she resumed her training and is cur­
"A guide dog has to be comfortable in any place that a blind person would want to go. That is why I have to take them to class, on buses, boats, grocery stores and any other place I can think of'' 
Shannln Leeming guide dog trainer 
rently caring for her 11th puppy -a black lab named Skipper. 
She and her husband Judah continue to work with an organi­zation called Pets Connect, which according to Leeming, "pullo; ani­mals from shelters and puts them into foster homes until they can be adopted." The organiza­tion focus particularly on ani­mals in danger of being put down. At the moment, Shanin Leeming and her husband are currently fostering a number of · pets and take them to adoption events every weekend at PetS mart. 
The couple became so person­ally involved with their work that when they got married in May on 
with raising guide dogs and who are currently living off-campus to visit the Guide Dog Foundation for the Blind Web site. 
Contact Laura Wtlczek at lwilczek@nd.edu 
~{/jJ 20041RONWOOD CIRCLE 273·8986 www.womenscarecenter.org 
Notre Dame's cam­pus, Leeming's fifth guide dog, Muffin, and his owner were the ring bearers in their wedding. 
For Leeming, the rewarding nature of her work is what keeps her going. Attending "graduation and seeing the dogs being given to their new owners is the best experience of the entire train­ing," she said. 
Leeming encour­ages those stu­dents who would like to get involved 

Women engineers receive award 
By BECKY HOGAN 
News Writer 

The Notre Dame Collegiate Section of the Society of Women Engineers (SWE-ND) has a clear goal -to reverse the trend of women being exceedingly under­represented in the engineering profession -and a recent presti­gious national award is proof that its hard work toward that goal has paid off. 
SWE-ND recently received the Outstanding Collegiate Section Award for its work in encouraging young women to pursue profes­sions in the field ofengineering. 
The award honors Notre Dame's Society ofWomen Engineers as the best section of its size in the coun­try. More than 100 sections were present from Oct. 10 to 14 at the National Conference in Kansas City, Mo. 
Senior Katie Murphy, president of SWE-ND, wrote a report detail­ing the strides the club has made in recent years to recruit female engineering majors. 
While the national average of female engineering majors hovers around 19 percent, Notre Dame's current average nears 24 percent. 
The report emphasized the vari­ous activities and events that the club has held to support current students within the College of Engineering and to encourage young girls to begin thinking about pursuing an engineering career. Murphy and the core committee members of SWE-ND submitted this winning report at the National Conference. 
"It was an annual report based on everything that we have done in the past year," she said. 
The club also plans to submit a new and improved report summa­rizing its accomplishments for the current academic year to ensure that it stays competitive in next year's contest. 
"We plan to follow the guidelines of the national organization more closely," Murphy said. 
The club will receive a cash reward of an unknown amount, which Murphy said will be applied toward future SWE-ND events. 
Although SWE-ND has entered the National Conference in recent years, this is the first time the organization has been recognized for its efforts. 
The Society ofWomen Engineers has 17,000 members nationally, and approximately 10,000 ofthose members are students, said Cathy Pieronek, director of Women's Programs in the College of Engineering and faculty advisor of SWE-ND. The remaining members are professionals. 
Murphy said the club's recent increase in membership is evi­dence ofits success as a major stu­dent group on campus. 
"Five years ago, there were only 10 members [in the SWE-ND] who met a few times a year, and now there are 130 girls in our organi­zation," Murphy said. "Our goal is to recruit women and keep them in engineering." 
SWE-ND has experienced major growth over the past five years and, according to the 19-page report submitted by Murphy, "has become the most active and prominent engineering organiza­tion on campus." 
In 2005, the Notre Dame Club Coordination Council awarded SWE-ND the "Overall Program of the Year Award." 
"SWE does a great job of cover­ing the social side and the aca­demic side of life as an engineer," 





GOLIIEN DRAGON 
CHINESE FOOD TO CARRY OUT OR DINE IN 
We're open on Thanksgiving DayI 
Fast Delivery! Lunch Special only $4.75 7 days a week from 11am-3pm 


BUY ONE COMBINATION PLATE get a second combination plate for 112 price! 
of equal or lesser value one coupon per visit mention this coupon when ordering and present coupon upon purchase expires 11/22/06 
said senior Ann Verwilst, club treasurer. 
The Society of Women Engineers is busy year-round planning events and activities for female engineer­ing students. Some of these events include Halloween and Christmas parties and visitation days for prospective female students. The club also invites professional engi­neers to speak to undergraduate engineering students and runs meetings to help students find internships. 
The group involves itself in the community as well. SWE partici­pates in service work by holding toiletry drives for local women's shelters. 
Murphy explained that building a support system for female stu­dents interested in engineering is essential to the organization's mis­sion. 
"The workload [for engineering majors] is so hard all of the time, so our group provides a support system for girls to meet in a more relaxed setting," Murphy said. 
Verwilst said SWE-ND has helped her to get to know other engineering students. 
"For me, SWE has been really helpful in getting advice from older girls about classes and internships. . . . It has also helped me to form great friendships," she said. 
After receiving this prestigious honor, Murphy hopes that this award will encourage more female students to consider engineering, knowing that Notre Dame has a unique support network for women in that college. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 

• 


Wednesday, November 15, 2006 CorvtPlLED FROA1 THE OBSERVER'S \VJRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Nuclear traces detected inside Iran 
VIENNA, Austria -New traces of plutonium and enriched uranium -potential material for atomic warheads -have been found in a nuclear waste facility in Iran, a revelation that came Tuesday as the Iranian president boasted his country's nuclear fuel program will soon be completed. 
The International Atomic Energy Agency report detailing the discovery also faulted Tehran for not cooperating with the U.N. watchdog's attempt'> to investigate other suspi­cious aspects of Iran's nuclear program. 
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, in a two-hour news ·conference in Tehran, assert­ed the world has no choice but to "live with a nuclear Iran," although he conceded his coun­try was "still in the first stages" of its uranium enrichment program. 
So far, Tehran ha..'i been able to activate only two small experimental pilot enrichment plants that U.N. oflicials say have frequently broken down and have produced only small amounts of material suitable for nuclear fuel. 
Gay marriage legislation criticized 
CAPE TOWN, South Africa-South African lawmakers passed legislation recognizing gay marriages on Tuesday despite criticism ti·om both traditionalists and gay activists. 

The bill, unprecedented on a continent where homosexuality is taboo, was decried by gay activists for not going far enough and by oppo­nents who warned it "was provoking God's anger." 
Veterans of the governing African National Congress praised the Civil Union Bill for extend­ing basic freedoms to everyone under the spirit of the country's first post-apartheid constitution, adopted a decade ago by framers determined to make discrimination a thing of the past. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

New majority party posts assigned 
WASHINGTON -Senate Democrats picked two women for senior posts Tuesday and appointed former U.S. Capitol police chief Terrance Gainer as sergeant at arms. Their choice a..'i majority leader, Sen. I larry Reid, said a top priority is getting a new secretary of defense confirmed. 
Reid told The Associated Press that he sup­ports replacing Donald Rumsfeld with former CIA Director Robert Gates by year's end, as President Bush has urged. 
"I hope we can move it forward quickly," Reid, of Nevada, told the Associated Press after the Democratic caucus in the Old Senate Chamber. "The sooner we can move it forward the sooner we can get rid of Rumsfeld," he said. 
Jury interviews start for cage case 
NORWALK, Ohio -Jury selection began Tuesday in the trial of a couple accused of abus­ing some of their 11 adopted special needs chil­dren by making them sleep in cages. · 
Michael and Sharen Gravelle are charged with 16 counl'i of felony child endangering and if convicted could face one to five years in prison and a maximum fine of $10,000 for each count. They also each face eight misdemeanor child endangering charges. 
The process of seating a jury in Huron County Common Pleas Court could take days, with 100 people being questioned. Earlier, about 350 potential jurors were sent questionnaires, and 250 were weeded out. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Farmland scoured after plane crash 
ROLLING PRAIRIE, Ind. -Authorities searched a cornfield Tuesday for the remains of five people killed in the crash of a twin-engine plane that went down shortly after takeoff in foggy weather. 
An Iowa marketing company had chartered the flight to take its co-founder and three employees from Ankeny, Iowa, to South Bend, in northern Indiana. 
Crash investigators had not determined the cause of Monday night's cra..'ih, but the plane took offin poor weather, with limited visibility and fog. 
"It wa..'l not a good night to fly," Deputy Coroner John Sullivan said. 
IRAQ 

50 abducted from research office 
Kidnappers disguised themselves as government soldiers; Madhi Army suspected 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD-Suspected Shiite militiamen dressed as Interior Ministry comman­dos stormed a Higher Education Ministry office Tuesday and kidnapped dozens of people after clearing the area under the guise of providing security for what they claimed would be a visit by the U.S. ambassador. 
Witnesses and authorities 
said the gunmen raced 
through all four stories of 
the building, forced men 
and women into separate 
rooms, handcuffed the men 
and loaded them aboard 
about 20 pickup trucks. 
Shortly afterward, authorities arrested six sen­ior police oflicers in connec­tion with the abductions ­the police chief and flve top subordinates in the Karradah district, the cen­tral Baghdad region where the kidnappers struck, Interior Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Jalil Khalaf said. 

There were varying esti­mates of the number of peo­ple kidnapped, but it appeared that at le:ast 50 were seized -' one of the largest mass abductions in Iraq. Authorities said as many as 20 were later released, but said a broad­cast report that most hostages were freed appeared to be false. The States to disband and dis­taken no tough action to prompt deeper concerns assault came on a day that arm the militias and their against them. among the U.S. military and saw at least 117 people die death squads, which are Al-Maliki. who leads a the Bush administration. in the mounting disorder deeply involved in the coun­Shiite-dominated Iraqi gov­The Americans have strug­and violence gripping the try's sectarian slaughter ernment, appeared to mini­gled for 44 months to put in country. and are believed to have mize the importance of place a democratic and 
The abductions in broad thoroughly infiltrated the Tuesday's kidnappings. The multi-sectarian and multi­daylight raised further police and security forces. abductions were believed to ethnic government that questions about Prime U.S. Central Command be the work of the Mahdi would embrace the Sunni Minister Nouri al-Maliki's chief Gen. John Abizaid Army, the heavily armed al­and Kurdish minorities, commitment to wiping out sternly warned al-Maliki Sadr militia which controls even if dominated by the the heavily armed Shiite face-to-face on Monday that the Karradah district. Shiite majority. militias of his prime political he must disband the militias "What is happening is not Since taking office in May, backers: the Supreme and give the United States terrorism, but the result of al-Maliki has essentially Council for the Islamic proof that they have been disagreements and conflict refused to reach out to the Revolution in Iraq, or SCIRI, disarmed, according to sen­between militias belonging Sunnis, who ran the country and the Sadrist Movement ior Iraqi government offi­to this side or that," al­for decades under Saddam of radical, anti-American cials with knowledge of Maliki said in televised Hussein. The former Iraqi Shiite cleric Muqtada al­what the men discussed. remarks during a meeting leader, toppled in the 2003 Sadr. So far, the prime minister with President J alai U.S. invasion, ordered the 
Al-Maliki faces intense has said the militias should Talabani. killing of hundreds of thou­pressure from the United not act illegally but has That response was likely sands of Shiites. 

Bishops reinforce position on gays 
Associated Press adopted separate statements encour­acknowledged that gay and lesbian 
aging Catholics to obey the church's Catholics "have a diflicult task in this 
BALTIMORE-The nation's Roman widely ignored ban on artificial con­world, but this task is necessary and Catholic bishops adopted new guide­traception, and directing parishioners good." lines for gay outreach Tuesday that to examine their consciences to "The tone of the document is posi­are meant to be welcoming, while decide if they are worthy of receiving tive, pastoral and welcoming," also telling gays to be celibate since Holy Communion. Serratelli said. "Its starting point is the church considers their sexuality Anyone who knowingly persists in the intrinsic human dignity of every "disordered." sinful behavior, such as gay sex or person and God's love for every per­
Gay Catholic activists said the using artificial birth control, should son." approach was so contorted and refrain from taking Communion, the But gay Catholic groups thought the flawed that it would alienate the very bishops said. bishops' approach was flat-out wrong. people it was trying to reach. "To be a Catholic is a challenge," Francisco DeBernardo, executive 
The statement, "Ministry to Persons said Bishop Arthur Serratelli of director of New \Vays Ministry, an with a Homosexual Inclination," was Paterson, N.J., chairman of the bish­independent outreach to Catholic gays adopted by a 194-37 vote, with one ops' doctrine committee. "To be a that has run afoul of some church abstention, at a meeting of the U.S. Catholic requires a certain choice." leaders, said the guidelines "do no~ Conference of Catholic Bishops. Presenting the gay ministry docu­reflect good science, good theology or 
The bishops also overwhelmingly ment at the meeting, Serratelli human reality." 
Wednesday, November 15, 2006 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
"I think there was disagree­the culture of the time ... which is ment on whether, was the com­one of the reasons why I think
Ad Hoc 

mittee going to sponsor this, most of us think this needs to be continued from page I [and] what does sponsorship discussed at a Catholic universi­
mean," she said. ty," she said. group," said M. Cathleen Kaveny, That question of sponsorship Kaveny echoed the necessity of a law school and theology profes­versus endorsement plagued discussing sexuality within the sor who sits on the committee. "I those on both context of a think Father Jenkins has really sides of the Catholic univer­proven himself very committed to "Monologues" sity -a con­having a conversation about gen­debate last ..Questions of sexuality text stressed by der issues and sexual violence spring, and it's are, ifyou will, points of Jenkins last issues. . . . He has a real commit­resurfaced spring during
concern, of division

ment." now, although t h e 
An e-mail sent to the Notre to a lesser within the Church [and] "Monologues" Dame community last week iden­extent. the culture of the time debate. tified three events planned by While the Events like 
... which is one of the

committee members: this week's committee's e­"Sex in the City "Loyal Daughters," as well as mail was "a reasons why I think of God" can February's The Edith Stein progress most of us think this "bring Catholic Project conference and a ··sex in report" on its teaching on sex­
needs to be discussed at

the City of God" panel discussion. attempt to uai morality
a Catholic university.,. 

Those three events, said meet its goals, into a dialogue" Executive Assistant to the Kaveny said, it with contempo­President Frances Shavers, aren't was not, how­Gail Bederman rary culture, necessarily "more worthy" than ever, an Kaveny said,
Ad hoc committee member 
"Not everyone agrees with every­thing in all of these events, but this is a starting spot," Floyd said. "[The committee] is encouraging students to attend events that have already sprung up organically which I think is really helpful, because it's not top down, it's highlighting stu­dent initiatives." 
Not all of the committee's mem­bers, however, agreed with giving all of the events official support. Margot O'Brien, prof•~ssional spe­cialist in the Mendoza College of Business, resigned from the committee due to 
"The committee's promotion of ·Loyal Daughters· elevates the play from something tolerated in the name ofacademic freedom, to an event commended as a proper way for Notre Dame, as a Catholic institution. to address illicit sexual activity and sexual violence.·· 
Margot O'Brien former member Ad hoc committee 
disagreement over "Loyal Daughters." 
"The committee's promotion of 'Loyal Daughters' elevates the play from something tolerated in the name of academic freedom, to an event commended as a proper way for Notre Dame, as a Catholic institution, to address illicit sexual activity and sexual violence," O'Brien wrote Tuesday in an e-mail to The Observer, also printed in today's Viewpoint sec­tion. 
"It is one thing for an academic unit or a professor to present, as true, viewpoints in conflict with Church teaching, but it is quite another for the University itself, through an ad hoc committee created specifically to address issues of sexual assault and gen­der roles, to promote a play that presents illicit sexual behavior in a morally neutral way." 
When asked whether others disagreed with the committee's decision to support "Loyal Daughters," O'Brien said she did ··not feel comfortable speaking for other committee members on their viewpoints." 
Shavers declined to comment, but said "there were conversa­tions within the committee about that." 
History professor and commit­tee member Gail Bederman said ··Loyal Daughters" did generate debate, but she did not think other members shared O'Brien's ··profound disagreement" with identifying the production as in line with the committee's goals. 

mean that every jot and tiddle is approved by every member of the com­mittee? No. But it means that we think this conversation needs to take place." 
And the conversa­tion won't be ending anytime soon. The committee's goal, Bederman said, has­n't changed. 
"Finding ways to promote dialogue -I think that's precisely what it is," she said. "I think we're not entirely sure what the committee is going to do next, but I think everybody currently on the committee is absolutely committed to ongoing diseus­sions." 
The idea behind next semester's "Sex in the City of God" panel discussion 
emerged from conversations within the committee, Bederman said, and future conversations could breed even more initiatives. 
"Questions of sexuality are, if you will, points of concern, of division within the Church [and) "so people don't 
have to see 
Catholic sexual teaching in one box, and the rest of the world in another." 
But while senior "Loyal Daughters" director and commit­tee member Madi Liddy said she saw the value in dialogue and praised the "really great ideas" raised during meetings, she was "a little bit disappointed in the amount of actual action as a result of the committee." 
"The committee has potential, but it'll take some time," she said. 
For O'Brien, the committee's purpose should be educating the Notre Dame community "as to the reality of sexual assault, as well as making sure that stu­dents, faculty and staff all know and understand the University's policy on sexual assault." 
"The University should also make sure that the Notre Dame community knows of the many resources available to help vic­tims," she said. 
But an ad hoc committee has its limits, Bederman said, and dialogue can only be so effective when the topic is as difficult as sexual violence. 
"Is it going to stop sexual assault? I doubt it," she said. "It's to help people avoid various problems. But it's an entrenched problem." 
Mary Kate Malone and Katie McDonnell contributed to this report. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

Bouts 
continued from page I 
dent of Bengal Bouts, said. "Fifty-two thousand dollars net is really good." 
Though the funds raised through Bengal Bouts have increased since its inception, its purpose remains the same. For 77 years, proceeds from Bengal Bouts have benefited the Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh. The funds collected are used to provide medical care, build stu­dent education hostels, care for orphans, treat those with drug problems and perform count­less other actions for the desti­tute communities served in Bangladesh. 
Smith, director of Holy Cross Missions, said the amount raised was by no means trivial, and estimated that the $52,000 is worth up to $500,000 worth of goods and services in Bangladesh. 
While Bengal Bouts is just starting to gear up for this year's tournament in February and March, the women's Baraka Bouts will take place this Thursday from 6-11 p.m. in the Joyce Center. Andrew McGill, this year's president of Bengal Bouts encouraged any­one available to attend the event, which benefits Holy endorsement of the events. 
"Nobody knows what endorsement means. ... The word is just too complicat­ed," she said. "All these events are in University space, all are being called to the attention of the student body ... does that 

Shirt 
continued from page I 
ing a new record in Notre Dame history. 
The unprecedented sales have not made the organizers complacent, however, as they anticipate even higher sales as the season comes to a close. 
"We will never be satisfied. The more shirts we sell, the more money that goes back to the Notre Dame students," said Julie Campbell, vice president of The Shirt Project. "We are still looking forward to what the rest of the season has to offer for our sales." 
Wiatrowski is especially looking forward to the last home game of the year this Saturday against Army -esti­mating that 175,000 units could be reached as a season total. 
This year's version of The 
Cross Missions across Africa. 
McGill previewed this year's plans for Bengal Bouts after the check was handed over. He said 170 people have paid dues for the program and most will end up competing this year, includ­ing three returning champions. 
"The guys who just began their training absolutely love it. They love the hard workouts, the camaraderie," McGill said. 
McGill said that although boxing is usually a very individ­ual sport, the Bengal Bouts makes it a team. 
"Bengal Bouts has taken a sport that is one-on-one, and it has turned it into a community building opportunity," he said. "Notre Dame is such a tight community, and there's this miniature community inside Notre Dame that is as close as you could possibly ever imag­ine." 
McGill said the best part of the program, however, is its focus on charity. 
"To be in charge of [such a program] is a fantastic honor," he said. 
Father Bill Seetch, Bengal Bouts Chaplain and Erika Meyer, a student office assistant for Bengal Bouts, were also present for the check presenta­tion. 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 
other campus initiatives targeting gender issues and sexual vio­lence. Rather, they are ..examples that present a range of perspec­tives on issues" -sexual assault in particular. 
The range of perspectives is essential, said senior and com­mittee member Gregory Floyd. 
Shirt was designed by current Stanford senior Ryan Ricketts, who said he is "honored to be a part of this extremely suc­cessful project." 
The success of the project is even more gratifying, Ricketts explained, because of its goal to give back to University stu­dents in need. 
"I'm even more proud of the Notre Dame community," he said, "for supporting such a large charity-driven endeavor." 
According to Fox, current Dillon sophomore Brad Lenoir will head The Shirt Project 2007. 
..The success of this year's The Shirt stems from the direc­tion it was given by its leader­ship," Lenoir said. "We hope to further the progress made [by taking] The Shirt national, as well as creating another unify­ing and exciting Shirt." 
Contact Patrick Cassidy at pcassidy@nd.edu 



Wednesday, November 15, 2006 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 


12,218.01 +86.13

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,407 142 866 2,386,337,900 


FTSf IOO(London) 6,186.60 -7.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 

NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  +1.08  +0.47  43.93  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +4.19  +0.88  21.88  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +0.19  +0.01  5.39  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.07  -0.02  29.23  
·  Treasuries  
I 0-YEAR NOTE  -0.80  -0.037  4.568  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.20  +0.01  4.955  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.94  -0.044  4.660  
5-YEARNOTE  -0.74  -0.034  4.559  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.30  58.28  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -0.50  625.30  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.08  88.78  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  117.7750  
EURO  0.7806  
POUND  0.5276  
CANADIAN$  1.1382  

IN BRIEF 
Vietnam trade bill tanks in the House 
WASHINGTON -House Republicans, after suffering a surprising defeat on legislation to normalize trade relations with Vietnam, put off until December any effort to make another attempt to pass the bill. 
Hejection of the measure, which had been expected to move smoothly through Congress, could be a signal that President Bush's agenda of trade liberalization is headed for tough times in a Congress that will be controlled next year by Democrats. 
The measure failed Monday night to win the necessary two-thirds majority it needed to pass under a procedure House Republicans adopted to rush it through with limited debate. 
It received 228 votes in support -32 short of what was needed. There were 161 votes against it. 
GOP leaders decided Tuesday to wait until after the House returns from its Thanksgiving break in December to bring the measure up again under normal procedures that require only a simple majority for passage. If there are no vote changes, the measure should pass since it gained 10 more votes than the 218­majority needed under the normal process. 
Vietnam on Tuesday called it a setback. 


Shell companies flaunt government 
WASHINGTON -federal law enforcement efforts have been hampered by the absence of information on company ownership, allowing shell companies to be used to launder money and evade taxes, government officials told Congress Tuesday. 
U.S. states grant incorporation to nearly 2 million new companies a year without identify­ing their owners -lenience that allows people to hide their identities and shell companies increasingly to be used for illicit activities, law­makers and congressional investigators say. 
Some $15 million in international aid for improving the safety of nuclear power plants in the former Soviet Union was diverted, accord­ing to the Government Accountability Office, Congress' investigative arm. Shell companies in the United States are used to launder as much as $36 billion from former Soviet republics. Millions in taxable income are hid­den in bank accounts in the Caribbean. 
Bush meets with automakers 
Congress raises concerns about workers' health care, alternative fuel, fair trade 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON­President Bush told Detroit's auto industrv lead­ers on Tuesday he knows they are making "tough choices" to shore up their companies in foreign com­petition and promised con­tinuing dialogue as they seek help on trade and health care issues. 
"The president clearly understands the importance of the business to the United States and the global econo­my," Ford Motor Co. Chief Executive Alan Mulally said later. 
Bush said, "We found a lot in common." 
Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney and other adminis­tration oflicials met in the Oval Office for just over an hour with top executives of Ford, General Motors and DaimlerChrysler AG's Chrysler Group. 
The automakers later told reporters the meeting was productive, hopeful that it would lead to more discus­sions with the administra­tion. 
"That's a door that we've been waiting to open," said Tom LaSorda, president and 
chief executive officer of DaimlerChrysler AG's Chrysler Group. 
On Capitol Hill, lawmak­ers representing large num­

would be "an important and we expect your mar­reducing its hourly work
bers of auto workers said 

first step toward a compre­kets to be open for ours, force by up to 30,000.
they hoped Congress would hensive American manufac­including our automobiles." The companies haveaddress reducing the cost of turing strategy." He said of the U.S. execu­faced hardships whilethe health care on manufac­The auto executives said tives, "These leaders are Japan-based Toyota Motor

turers, foster the research 

they pressed Bush about making difficult decisions, Corp. is enjoying soaringand development of alterna­their concerns on health tough choices to make sure profits and outlining planstive fuel vehicles and pro­care, energy and trade that their companies are to unseat GM as the world's mote fair trade practices. 
issues, while making clear competitive in a global largest automaker. 
"The industry's ability to that the troubled industry economy. And I'm confident GM chairman and CEO compete in the global mar­

does not want a federal that they're making the Rick Wagoner said the
ketplace will determine its bailout. The meeting had right decisions." automakers made the casefuture. Rising health care been delayed since last General Motors Corp. and that Japan's weakened yenand retirement costs as well spring and had been widely Ford are both undergoing makes imported goods from 

as America's dependence 

anticipated in the auto significant turnaround Japan cheaper and 
on foreign sources of energy industry. plans after posting large enhances profits Japanese

are negatively affecting 

Bush met with the leaders losses last year. GM has per­automakers make in the
industry strength," said 

just hours before he was suaded about 35,000 hourly U.S. He said they discussedSen. George Voinovich, R­traveling to Asia to meet in workers to leave the com­the automakers' "strongOhio. 
Vietnam with Asia-Pacific pany under early retire­conviction that theSen. Debbie Stabenow, D­economic partners. lie said ment or buyout plans while Japanese yen is systemati­Mich., who criticized Bush 
he would tell those part­Ford has offered buyouts cally undervalued, which
during her re-election cam­ners, "Just treat us like we and early retirement pack­helps them to maintain sig­paign for not meeting with treat you.... Our markets ages to all 75,000 U.S. pro­nificant trade balance sur­the executives earlier, said are open for your products duction workers in hopes of pluses in our industry."

she hoped the meeting 






Stocks surge on interest rate news 
for a market that has been count­ket was hoping to hear," said Jay
Associated Press 

ing on a steady rate policy for the Suskind, head trader at Ryan Beck 
NEW YORK -Wall Street bar­near future. & Co. reled higher Tuesday, with the Dow Earlier, the Labor Department The Dow rose 86.13, or 0.71 per­Jones industrials surging further said inflation at the wholesale level cent, to close at 12,218.01, above into record territory after a Federal as measured by the Producer Price the previous record close of Reserve official indicated the Fed Index dropped by 1.6 percent last 12,176.54 reached last Wednesday. 
will maintain its policy of stable month following a 1.3 percent slide The blue chips also reached a new interest rates. in September. Plunging energy trading high of 12,228.01. 
Investors who were heartened by prices were behind the declines, Broader stock indicators also an earlier report of slowing pro­which gave Wall Street some relief closed sharply higher. The ducer prices began buying in from concerns that rising inflation Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 
earnest after Federal Reserve Bank might prompt the Fed to raise rates 8.80, or 0.64 percent, to 1,393.22. 
of St. Louis President William Poole after three straight meetings where It hit a trading high of 1,394.49; described the Fed's interest rate they were left unchanged. this was the first time the S&P 500 policy as "about right." Poole, who "With the PPI down and with the surpassed 1,394 since November 
is acting as a voting member on the Fed cautiously optimistic about the 2000. Fed's policy-making Open Market economy, not signaling any rate The Nasdaq composite index rose 
Committee, had reassuring words hikes, it confirmed what the mar-24.28, or 1.01 percent, to 2,430.66. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 15, 2006 
mation is readily available to Preacher, Assistant Dean in Residence Life at Saint Mary's Biological Sciences; John students through various the College of Arts and College; Lynn Bradford, Corker, student; Emi1y
Assault 

means," Brown said, mention­ing the wallet-sized informa­
continued from page 1 tion cards for students, re-for­to victim's resource person matted posters and magnets Ava Preacher, the Saint Joseph with important resource infor­Medical Center EH and S-0-S, mation in addition to the new St. Joseph County's rape-crisis Web site. center. Discussions about sexual The Web site also features assault are not new to Student an extensive "frequently asked Senate. The Gender Issues questions" section, answering Committee of the Student questions about the definition Senate organized a Sexual of rape, Notre Dame's stance Assault Awareness Week last on rape and what to do if rape March. A new group -Men occurs. Against Violence (MAV) -was Brown said Student also launched last spring by a Government group of men will be involved committed to in the initia­ending sexual
"Sexual assault and 

tives aimed at violence and 
rape are very real 

better educat­domestic abuse. 
ing students. problems on-virtually Campus The work of Alliance for
every college campus, 

the committee R a p e
and Notre Dame is no 

is a "vitally Elimination important" part exception. ,, (CAHE) -of of Notre which Preacher Dame's efforts serves as the
Ann Firth 

to address faculty advisor
associate vice president _ is an the r
issues of sexual 0 assault and vio­Student Affairs such group 
lence on cam­
pus, and has 
been for the last few years. 
In 2001, shortly after the University formed the Sexual Assault Advisory Committee, student feedback was supplied to the group about how sexual assault cases were handled on campus. After discovering that the system had not worked to the satisfaction of many stu­dents, the committee appoint­ed Preacher as the University's sexual assault resource person. 
In this role, Preacher is a resource for students, who can come to her without fac­ing repercussions, she said in a Feb. 17, 2005 article in The Observer. 
Preacher's position as assis­tant dean makes her ideal for victims to talk to and remain anonymous, as nearly all undergraduates have access to he~ • 
To increase awareness on a grander, campus-wide level, the Student Government and the Gender Relations Center have also launched a cam­paign about assault, Firth said. 
Shappell and Chief Executive Assistant Liz Brown have worked with members of Student Senate to figure out how to best distribute infor­mation about sexual assault resources. 
Among the senators' sugges­tions have been new sexual assault awareness posters in dorms and popular buildings on campus, the distribution of information at the mandatory fresh­working to keep 
the issues of sexual assault fresh in peo­ple's minds. 
And it is the goal of the Sexual Assault Advisory Committee to unite such­groups and not just work from one perspective. 
"[The committee] brings together a number of individu­als from different campus organizations that are invest­ed in this issue," Brown said. 
Among these individuals are representatives from Student Affairs, Residence Life, the Gender Relations Center, counselors and psychologists, professors and students. 
"The group creates an opportunity for collaboration on initiatives and provokes discussion that ensures the University is adequately addressing the needs of vic­tims of sexual assault," Brown said. 
The committee will meet again at the end of the month and three or four times in the spring, Firth said. 
"I think many of our projects will be accomplished through the work of smaller subcom­mittees between meetings," she said. 
Though sexual assault is present on Notre Dame's cam­pus -as evidenced in "Loyal Daughters," a student-written play about assault at the University -Firth said such violence should have "no place here." 
"Sexual assault and rape are very real problems on virtual­
ly every college 
campus, and 
man  PILLAHS  '"All ofus within  Notre Dame is  
meeting and a sexual assault awareness lesson  the Notre Dame community share  no exception," Firth said. "All of us within the  
in  freshman  responsibility for  Notre  Dame  
Contemporary Topics classes. The sexual assault awareness  creating and maintaining an environment which  community share responsi­bility for creat­ing and main­ 
posters, Shappell  promotes the safety  taining an envi­ 
said in a Sept. 20 meeting, are meant to be a con­ and dignity ofeach individual."  ronment which promotes the safety and dig­ 
stant and perma­ nity  of  each  
nent source of information -not just one of many  Ann Firth associate vice president  individual." The commit­tee is appointed  
posters covering  Student Affairs  by  Vice  
bathroom walls.  President  for  
Senators proposed  Student Affairs  

changes to the color of the Father Mark Poorman, Firth posters and the condensing of said. For the 2005-06 academ­information into wallet-size ic year, the committee is com­cards as changes that would prised of: Bill Kirk, Associate be effective. Vice President for Hesidence 
"Related to this goal, one of Life, Co-chair; Ann Firth, our primary objectives is Associate Vice President for ensuring that resource infor-Student Affairs, Co-chair; Ava Letters; Jeff Shoup, Director of the Office of Residence Life and Housing; Heather Rakoczy, Director of the Gender Relations Center; Michelle Russell, Director of Director of S-0-S; Alex Chapeaux, student; Cathy Steinmetz, student; Sarah Raymond, Staff Psychologist at University Counseling Center; John Duman, Professor of 
Weisbecker, student; Lizzi Shappell, student; Liz Brown, student. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 

EJofTI\EP~EUl\SHIP sPtal'fU~l~ 
Wednesday, Noventber IS, zoo& at6:30PID LaFortune Montgo01ery Theater 

Sponsored by Multicultural Student Programs and Services and NASAND 
u'Rising Above tlie Ordlnaryn 
Department of Music Presents 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 






CHO LE 
& CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR 
BEETHOVEN • BACH • WAGNER • DEBUSSY 
8:00P.M. SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2006 FOLLOWING THE ARMY GAME 
SPECIAL OFFER TO FOOTBALL FANS: 
PRESENT FOOTBALL GAME TICKET STUB AT DPAC BOX OFFICE FOR 50o/o DISCOUNT ON GENERAL ADMISSION TICKET 
LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL MARIE I-' DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 
Tickets ~1o, $8, ~6, ~3 

phone s74-631-2.8oo or buy on-line at http://performingarts.nd.edu 


Wednesday, November 15, 2006 page 9 
The Observer + NEWS 
happen. You [Emily] as the being sacrificed for the good of "simply just shut down," she failure as that much more fright­writer have generated far more the organization," he said. said. ening.
Panel 
spontaneous discussion then I In denouncing pre-marital sex­Weisbecker expressed hope "There's a fear of failure or of continued from page 1 ever had in my class," Bellis ual relations as that students doing anything wrong. We feel said. worthy of expul­can increase like there's a specific path we 
An audience member thanked Bellis said a crucial element in sion and placing ..A college or their self-confi­have to follow but we're not sure Weisbecker for including differ­curbing sexual violence is com­committing rape institution in which a dence and if we're on it," she said. ent perspectives in the play, indi­munication. He mentioned the (though not therefore feel in Weisbecker also expressed the
policy that promotes
cating a monologue about for­culture clash in the American being raped) control enough desire for a change in the cam­giveness for past sexual experi­mindset between traditional val­under the same silence to benefit the to be open pus culture's focus on alcohol. ences and another regarding a ues and perceived cultural punishment, all public presentation of about sexuality Many of the monologues conversation with Mary at the norms as problematic in shed­talks of sexuality and violence. expressed alcohol-induced
the group over
Grotto as particularly compelling ding light on the issue. become in dan­"I'd like to assault situations, suggesting for her on a Catholic level. "Whenever I have talked about ger of being protecting the boost everyone's that lessening the degree to "I was very happy about the sexuality, mating patterns, mar­silenced, and individual victims is self esteem which alcohol is consumed could fact that so many people with riage or violence, my classes go this may lead to because I think create a safer environment, she
an example ofthe
very different perspectives came stone silent -whether they be the stifling of that's one of the said.
individual being 
in and talked to me, so I felt like 10 students or 150," he said. crime reports, things that real­Bellis echoed Young's I was able to represent a really "One of my greatest clues to a he explained. sacrificed for the good ly affects these expressed sentiments about the broad range of people," deep-seated concern is their This lack of situations," she particular opportunity Notre
ofthe organization. •·
Weisbecker replied. response -almost not breath­communication said, "they Dame has as a leading institu­
She also expressed gratitude ing while we talk about it." may also play a know right from tion to set an example. for the students whose stories Silence about sexuality and role in the physi­James Bellis the beginning "Notre Dame has an extraordi­comprise the play -particularly assault can lead to victims not cal assault itself, anthropology professor that this isn't a nary central legacy that can those of male students. feeling comfortable reporting Envall said, comfortable sit-enable it to be very different ­
"The fact that they were all so crimes, Weisbecker said. One because embar-uation, but as for the good of the common­open and trusting so that their monologue made a striking com­rassment over the situation may you heard from so many of the wealth and of all," he said. "It stories could be shared and parison between duLac's treat­prevent a victim from crying out. scenes, he's telling me it's what takes more than a claim to be experienced by the community is ment of consensual sex out of "Embarrassment is extremely I'm supposed to be doing ... peo­different for that to happen ­profound," Weisbecker said. "I wedlock and that of rape accord­big," Envall said. "I think it has a ple feel conflicted." you actually have to live out was very honored that males ing to University standards. lot to do with someone not want­"If people can become more these principles." would come forward especially Bellis spoke out against this reg­ing to actually be happening to comfortable and positive within The third and final panel dis­and tell me their experiences ulation. him or you, that you let yourself themselves, they would become cussion will take place tonight with se~ual violence." "A college or institution in enter a situation where you're more alive," she said. after the performance in the 
Opening dialogue like this play which a policy that promotes being victimized." Weisbecker said the over­DeBartolo Performing Arts and panel, Bellis said, is a key silence to benefit the public She also said that no one could achieving aspect of high per­Center. step in moving toward change. presentation of the group over know how he or she will act in formance Notre Dame students 
"[... ] A discussion like this protecting the individual victims an assault situation until it hap­can be dangerous as they, hav­Contact Kathleen McDonnell at seems to me like what needs to is an example of the individual pens -some people's bodies ing had so much success, see krncdonn3@nd.edu 

Dorms 
continued from page 1 
he said. 
Lyphout also said the new resi­dence hall will evoke Notre Dame's older dorms with the inclusion of rooms of varying sizes. 
"There will be some hierarchy of rooms," he said. "There'll be a combination of singles, dou­bles, triples and quads." 
Lyphout's confirmation that rooms of differing sizes will be built into the dorm echoes state­ments made by Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves early in the year. As reported in the Sept. 28 issue of The Observer, the new residence halls will be designed in the "throwback" Gothic style, simi­lar to that of the Jordan Hall of Science. This will visibly set them apart from thE most recently built dorms on campus -the four on West Quad. 
Affieck-Graves also said two out of the remaining three resi­dence halls in the planning stages will be constructed just east of Pasquerilla East and Knott where Juniper Road is currently being cleared. 
All four planned dorms figure into a significant expansion in Notre Dame's facilities set to occur over the next several years. Future construction proj­ects will include a new wing for the Law School where the for­mer Post Office now stands, a Gothic-style engineering build­ing to be built in the current location of the University Club and renovations to the power plant and portions of the Joyce Center. 
The cornerstone projects of the University's development program will be the landscaped Notre Dame Commons and the much-hyped Eddy Street Commons, or "college town," to be built south of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd.edu 

Cops cleared in pepper spraying 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -A district attorney's investigation has cleared police officers of wrong­doing in a videotaped incident in which a transient in handcuffs was apparently pepper-sprayed in a police car, police Chief William Bratton said Tuesday. 
The February 2005 incident came to light this week when the videotape, shot by a citizen, was released by the man's attor­ney. 
The tape of Benjamin Barker's arrest surfaced on the heels of an 18-second video showing a Los Angeles officer repeatedly punching a suspect in the face while another officer tried to handcuff the man during a struggle on a Hollywood street on Aug. 11. 
At a news conference, Bratton cited a Nov. 15, 2005, decision by the Los Angeles County dis­trict attorney's office in which prosecutors declined to me any charges against officers in the arrest of Barker, who had been in a scuffie with a Venice Beach merchant. 
The officers were identified as David Guieterman, Victor Eguez and Peggy Thusing. Guieterman, seen in the video using pepper spray, left the department last year for rea­sons unrelated to the arrest, but remains in law enforcement, police said. 
"Examination of the videotape clearly shows (the officers) did not use excessive force on Benjamin Barker, nor did they assault him under color of authority," Bratton said, quoting the decision. "The officers showed remarkable restraint and demonstrated professional courtesy to Barker despite his belligerent, threatening and combative behavior." 
The tape shows Guieterman take pepper spray out of a hol­ster, then raise it toward Barker's face, but the actual spraying is obscured by shad­ows. 
The report found that officers arrested Barker after the mer­chant reported that Barker had hit him and customers. 
The report, citing the video­tape, says Barker resisted police efforts to put him in the police car, screaming and making a kicking motion toward an offi­cer. 
After he was placed in the car's back seat, he jumped out and lunged toward a fourth offi­cer. Placed in the car a second time, Barker spit on the window and on Guieterman, the report says the tape shows. In response, Guieterman sprayed him twice with one-second bursts of pepper spray while Barker was in the back seat. 
While being driven to jail, Barker kicked out a window, the report says. 
"Barker's words and actions were resistive and obstructive," it says. 
"The officers used that degree of force necessary to restrain Barker and maintain custody of him," the chief said, quoting from the decision. 
Barker has since pleaded guilty to misdemeanor battery on the shopkeeper. 
Barker's attorney, John Raphling, called allegations that his client spit on the officer "nonsense." 
"Once (Barker) is in the car, he's cuffed, hands behind his back, and he's not resisting. He's not a threat," Raphling said. 
The district attorney's office also concluded that reports by two officers that said the pepper spray was administered outside the car were mistaken recollec­tions and not intentional mis­statements offact. 
The chief noted that a court commissioner who held a hear­ing in the separate Hollywood arrest also found the officers in that case did nothing wrong because that suspect was resist­ing. 


THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Gilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Maddit" Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gortumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 
Mary Kate Malone 

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxrader 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROI.LER: Kyle West 

WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(57 4) 631-4 543 sports. I @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
{S74) 631-4540 scene.'l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. 1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's C'AJllege. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported a.~ accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edirors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and musr include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies shoulti be directed to Editor in Chief Mike GilbJon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ob.crver (USPS 59'J 2-4000) is puhli•heJ Mond•y thruu&h Frid.ly cxe<pt during r:xam and va-ariu11 pcriock A sub3uiption to The Obacrvcr i:!t. S 100 for one acukmk year. $5~ fOr''"~ )oC'Rlt'Sler. 
1'h< Obstn>cr is publish«! u: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dirung Hall Send address oorrecriom to: 
Nor« Dame.l!'-146~56.0779 The Observer 
Periodic.U ~c.: paid lt Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
.md addtrion.U mailing offka. 024 Somh Dining H•ll 
Notre D<m<. IN 46556-0779 

The Observer is .1 member of th~ A~odarcd Press. All reproduction rights M~ reserved, 
TODAY'S STAFF 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Jenkins must promote rape counseling 
Father Jenkins claims to support the goal of prevent­ing sexual assault. However, he apparently does not support the goal of providing post-assault counseling services for victims of sexual violence. He apparently also does not support the goal of providing safe shelter for women and children fleeing domestic violence. If he did, he would not forbid "Loyal Daughters" and similar plays (such as "The Vagina Monologues") from selling tickets or engaging in other fundraising to support 
S.O.S. of Madison Center, the only rape crisis center serving the South Bend metro area, or the YWCA of St. Joseph County, a Christian organization providing shel­ter for abused women and children. 
As a rape survivor, I am grateful to see Catholic lead­ers like Jenkins supporting sexual assault prevention. However, Jenkins and other leaders must not forget that counseling and aftercare are every bit as essential as prevention. Rape is a crime that doesn't end with the act of sex; it can continue for years as the victim's life is literally taken over by fear, regret, self-loathing and pain. Rape crisis centers like S.O.S. help to prevent this continuing violence. Father Jenkins, I implore you to put your words into action. If you really care about helping victims of sexual violence, support the organi­zations that provide for the needs of victims in our com­munity. Perhaps if someone from the Catholic Church had been there for me when I was 15, alone, in pain and afraid, I would still be a member of the Church today. 
Jessica Tannenbaum alumnus Clas.~ of2006 Nov. 13 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Attracting diverse 
students to 

Notre Dame 
Why did you choose Notre Dame? It is not uncommon for freshmen to be asked this question by peers and professors. Many students reference the institution's Catholic heritage and academic excellence. However, when people learn that I am Muslim, they ask why did you choose Notre Dame if you're a Muslim? As a practicing Muslim, I explain that many of the values advocated at Notre Dame are not necessarily Catholic; they are secular values that enhance oneself regardless of his/her respective faith. After explaining the basic tenets of Islam, many of my peers respond by recognizing the vast simi­larities between Islam and Christianity. 
In order for Notre Dame to become a more diverse commu­nity and attract people of other religions, I believe that it should make it known that while Catholicism remains integral to its identity, the values and morals emphasized at the University embrace people of all faiths. Many of my Muslim friends chose to attend Georgetown University for that very reason; it emphasizes values as well as diversity. While Notre Dame can significantly improve its image as a multi-cultural university, the University has been supportive of interfaith councils such as the Muslim Student Association. In order to attract people of other religious beliefs, the .University should make it known that Notre Dame is not simply for Catholics. As a result of expressed interest in other faiths, Notre Dame can attract even more diverse and talented students to attend the University. I recognize this as a necessary step in order for Notre Dame to compete with other prestigious universities and establish itself as the ideal institution for people of all faiths. 
Ammar Tahir 
freshman 
Alumni Hall 
Nov. i3'' 


~~@ (S(}{J~@~ 1f[}{l§@[RMcrVOTERS IN NORTH AMERICA PUT DEMOCAA'rn BACK lN POWER AND P£NGUIN5 EVERY'NHERE FlAP TiiEIR WINGS! 
News Sports OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Amanda Ken Fowler 
Michaels Chris Hine 


Submit aLetter
Marcela Berrios Amy Dixon Do you plan to see "Loyal 
"The right word may be effective, but no
Ryan Sydlik Chris Khorey Daughters?" 
word was el'er as effective as a rightly
Viewpoint Tim Dougherty 
timed pause." 

to the Editor at
Kara King Scene 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Mark Twain

Graphics Rama 
U.S. novelist
JefT Albert Gottumukkala at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
www.ndsmcobserver.com · 
p
Wednesday, November 15, 2006 
page 11 

LETIER TO THE EDITOR 
Play ~problematic' for campus community 
A number of individuals have inquired as to why I did not support the Ad Hoc committee's recent announce­ment promoting three upcoming events at Notre Dame and why I have resigned from the committee. Certainly, my deci­sion to resign rather than join the com­mittee in its support of the play "Loyal Daughters" is not nearly as noteworthy as Father Jenkins' decision to withhold his endorsement of "Loyal Daughters." However, some may nonetheless be interested in my rationale. A full expla­nation of my decision would require an extensive recounting of the history of the formation of the committee, a chronology of the committee meeting discussions, a critique of "Loyal Daughters," and an analysis explaining the difference between an individual's right to academic freedom and the University's institutional right to aca­demic freedom. It would also require an explanation of the related distinc­tion between creating a forum for speech as opposed to institutional speech. Neither time, nor space, permit for a complete rendition of my reason­ing. However, those who have inquired can reasonably expect an answer and for them I offer this explanation. 
Initially, though, please allow me to clearly state my conviction that Notre Dame must do all it can -appropriate­ly and morally -to prevent sexual assault and violence against women. The horror of sexual assault and vio­lence suffered by our students -some­times at the hands of other students ­is real, as is the physical and emotional destruction such violence inflicts. During my time teaching at Notre Dame, several students who were vic­tims of sexual assault, rape and vio­lence have sought my help and guid­ance. Others came to me for assistance when they discovered they were preg­nant and faced not just a crisis preg­nancy, but also physical and emotional abuse from the fathers of their unborn babies. These women, like all women who are victims of sexual assault and violence, suffer unspeakable wounds and deserve compassionate support. They will be in my continued prayers as they seek healing. At the same time, public condemnation of such violence is critically important so that all will know that Notre Dame does not toler­ate violence against women. 
To the extent, therefore, that "Loyal Daughters" is intended to focus our attention on the issue of sexual assault, its goal is worthy. However, after claiming the stage for this laudable purpose, "Loyal Daughters" takes advantage of the spotlight to present in a morally neutral way illicit sexual activity, including homosexual and bisexual sexual relations, fornication, masturbation and contraceptive sex ­at times in a celebratory tone. Although the vignettes are based on actual experiences, which deserve our attention and concern, the manner in which those experiences are related to the community is problematic. In relat­ing such experiences without comment or context, and in a morally neutral manner, "Loyal Daughters" presents a one-sided and false view of God's beau­tiful gift of human sexuality as taught so eloquently by the Church. The play mischaracterizes Notre Dame's policies on sexual abuse and sexuality and fuels common misperceptions of the University's appropriate and compas­sionate response in these cases. The play ridicules virginity and treats all views of sexuality and consensual sexu­al activity as equally valid, and pro­motes harmful stereotypes of classes of 
students, particularly football players 
and those considering the priesthood. 
Moreover, as Father Jenkins 
explained in his address to the faculty 
in January of 2006, the offense from 
the proposed production of "Her Loyal 
Daughters" to Catholics who revere 
Mary-the model of chastity­
appears intentional. Merely removing 
"Her" from the production's title does 
nothing to remove the offense. The 
meaning of "Loyal Daughters" remains 
dear to all who know and love Notre 
Dame, and it is hard to believe that 
those responsible for this inconsequen­
tial editing thought otherwise. 
Finally, "Loyal Daughters" has been the focus of media attention, and this attendant publicity threatens to bring further scandal to our Faith. Although "Loyal Daughters" is not explicit or exceedingly crude, as the Monologues were, removing the crassness and vul­garity does not alter the fundamental infirmity -gravely illicit sexual behav­ior is still presented in a morally neu­tral way. In fact, the relative subtlety of "Loyal Daughters" really magnifies the problem because the fraudulent mes­sage is masked for the unwary by the guarded prose and not highlighted by the glaring profanity. 
The fact that "Loyal Daughters" is not explicit makes it easier to overlook the underlying objectionable message which nonetheless permeates the script: that there is no one true view of sexuality and that there is nothing wrong with consensual sexual activity, 
whether it be homosexual, bisexual, fornication, masturbation, or contra­ceptive sex. In light of these objection­able features of the play, I do not want to lend it my personal support, and, given the special status of the commit­tee, I do not believe that the committee should lend "Loyal Daughters" its insti­tutional support. 
Regarding this institutional support: the committee's promotion of "Loyal Daughters" elevates the play from something tolerated in the name of academic freedom, to an event com­mended as a proper way for Notre Dame, as a Catholic institution, to address illicit sexual activity and sexu­al violence. It is one thing for an aca­demic unit or a professor to present, as trm~. viewpoints in conflict with Church teaching, but it is quite another for the University itself, through an Ad Hoc committee created specifically to address issues of sexual assault and gender roles, to promote a play that presents illicit sexual behavior in a morally neutral way. And this vice surely is not cured by the scheduling of later events as moral antidotes, as if telling the truth months later to a dif­ferent audience offsets the harm. 
Finally, let me make clear that this is not a question of silencing the students: The voices and viewpoints found in "Loyal Daughters" would be heard without the committee promoting the play, as "Loyal Daughters" is sponsored by the Gender Studies Program, as well as the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts. Under these circum­stances, I believe the committee should not have promoted "Loyal Daughters" and that the committee's action bore so importantly on its mission that I felt I could no longer serve. I accept the con­
trary judgment of my colleagues but. for my part, conscience and what I per­ceive as the best interests of Our Lady's University counsel otherwise. 
Margot O'Brien 
Professional Specialist Nov. 14 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

-' 




Wednesday, November 15, 2006 page 13 

BY RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 

t begins the way any good superhero seen on the news every day. Persecution, war, shown him the true potential of the vast pow­tale should. A solitary figure is perched terror and the threat of a nuclear explosion ers he's still learning to grasp -and the con­on the ledge of a skyscraper. He's a loom on the horizon. sequences if he does not. dreamer, unsure of his place in the "Heroes" is a stark vision of a world where In one of the most thrilling moments of the world but intrigued by the growing these champions are needed now more than fledgling series, a future version of Hiro thought that he might be far from ordi-ever, told in 44-minute installments that appears to Peter in a darkened subway car nary. Convinced he can fly, the man demand the attention of viewers week after with time at a standstill. Complete with a steps off the ledge in a literal and figurative week. In that respect, "Heroes" shares much samurai sword, closely cropped hair and Zen­
leap of faith. in common with "Lost" and Fox's "24," its sty­like aura, future Hiro's message for Peter ­
Set amongst sweeping, cinematic imagery, listie predecessors on network television. With the instantly cult phrase, "Save the cheer­the prologue to the pilot episode of NBC's audience demand for addictive serialized stu­leader, save the world." -set the course for drama "Heroes" introduces us to Peter Petrelli rytelling higher than ever, Kring seized his the rest of the show's first season. (Milo Ventimiglia), the first of many remark-opportunity to build a show with its own able protagonists in the show's ensemble cast. unique mythos. Friends and foes v\'ith nearly a dozen principal characters, "I wanted to do a large, ensemble saga," While the super-powered beings in "Heroes" "Heroes" revolves around ordinary individuals Kring said. "I was intrigued by these other are numerous, the show's human population who slowly discover they have uncanny abili-shows that were working and this kind of plays just as vital a role in the narrative-and ties. Dickensian storytelling, with chapters unfold-its emotional depth -as the telepaths, flyers 
Fighting their own conflictions to either ing one after another." and time-travelers. The most visible villain embrace or shelter these gifts, they find them-Kring points to a Victorian-era novelist as thus far has been a mysterious man in horn­selves colliding in the real world, drawn the inspiration behind his first mainstream hit. rimmed glasses (affectionately dubbed "HRG" together in an attempt to stop an impending But the most basic tenet of a good story for short by the show's creators). global catastrophe. But because the show nav-applies to "Heroes" just as well as it does for Even with no powers of his own, HRG has igates the lives of characters who are human 19th century literature -give audiences char-been pulling the strings since the pilot episode, first and saviors second, "Heroes" feels famil-acters they can care for and they will come. hunting down the heroes for his own purposes 
. ""~A~r~ f?~ ,~isti2c~,~ the same b~~~~-~ .. ," ~-The chosdl\ ones · · ,._. -:·_.:.~·--..... :'--·.-.~~--"N'al~~t~Y~~!l~r:f:fit~tfeeJ!Pt~l,.eb~ !~ivm~i~~~J.-.. • Origin stories With "Heroes," viewers can take their pick to Claire Bennett, the quick-healing high After all, the premise is nothing new. At first from 11 such characters to inhabit, idolize and school cheerleader in need of saving. Whether . glance, it's hard not to notice the glaring simi-applaud -with more role players waiting in HRG becomes an important ally or a danger­larities "Heroes" shares in theme and tone to the wings for their chance to shine. Supported ous foe remains to be seen. 
M. Night Shyamalan's "Unbreakable," a quiet, by relative unknowns eager to make the most Similarly, every great hero needs a sidekick character-driven drama centering on the dis-of their first big break, the show's casting to pick up his morale and help guide his diffi­covery of one man's extraordinary abilities. Or choices have all been spot-on, with a few char-cult journey. Frodo had Samwise, and Biro has cry wolf on the show's ensemble cast and acters already stepping to the forefront. Ando (James Kyson Lee), a co-worker and sprawling scope, both hallmarks of ABC's The show's lead is Peter, a compassionate friend he takes along for the ride. Ando's "Lost," the current standard by which all seri-everyman living in New York City. Plagued by friendship with Biro, despite some rough alized dramas are judged. And how about vivid dreams of flight, he thinks he's meant for patches, has been one of the great constants in those 40 years of X-Men comics? some greater purpose, but hasn't quite figured the early episodes. Though the series has got­
Origin stories for superheroes-the heart of out what that purpose is. As he discovers, ten progressively darker as the stakes have what makes "Heroes appealing -have been Peter's powers allow him to temporarily mimic risen, every quirky scene with the dynamic popular yarns for decades in the powers of other heroes -duo is a treat, filled with laughter and genuine comic books, one of America's But because the show sometimes better than they can. goodwilL most treasured storytelling medi-navigates the lives of Peter's complicated relation­ums. Whether it was Superman characters who are ship with his older brother, The future up in the sky in 1938 or Spider-h fi d . Nathan Petrelli (Adrian Pasdar), Kring has hinted that characters will lose Man's first brush with great uman rst an savwrs forms the emotional backbone of their powers, lose their lives and sacrifice responsibility in 1962, comic second, ..Heroes,feels the show and, in many ways, themselves for the greater good-all in the books have become our culture's familiar and distinct in knocks over the first domino in pursuit of good drama. But in the meantime, equivalent of mythology. h b h the race to save the world. the show has a seemingly endless supply of 
The Greeks idolized Zeus, t e same reat · A pessimistic and driven politi-stories to mine and characters to explore. Hercules and Achilles for their power and cian running for election to Congress, Nathan Exactly how long "Heroes" will remain on the their prestige. Americans have Superman, is as ironic a hero as there's ever been. air is a mystery. NBC is in no hurry to find out. Spider-Man and Batman to reflect their hopes, Blessed with the textbook, Superhero 101 The pilot episode attracted 14.3 million view­their dreams, their fantasies. power -self-propelled flight -Nathan is the ers, garnering the highest ratings for any NBC 
"Heroes" creator Tim Kring knows this bet-Superman who can scorch the sky at speeds drama premiere in five years. And the number ter than most, even if he won't admit to it. The that break the sound barrier. of viewers has continued to climb former creator-producer of "Crossing Jordan" But he'd rather stay grounded But in the meantime, the in recent weeks as the critical and -NBC's entry into the television staple of in his political career, even show has a seemingly popular acclaim for the show has murder mysteries-claims he's a comics new-pub~icly accusing Peter of men-endless supply oifstories sno~balled. . . . . 
bie. tal Illness to keep the press . · Krmg remams optimistic and he 
"I was not a comic book nerd," Kring said in from unearthing the family to mme and characters has a five-year plan in mind for an interview with The New York Times. "But secret. The tiff between the to explore. his creation. The minds behind the truth is that nowadays that world is so per-two brothers is the fulcrum "Heroes" has already modeled the vasive, especially when you have kids, that you that "Heroes" balances on -whether their show after a well-known comic book conven­go to movies in the summertime and that's abilities belong to themselves or to the world. tion -using short, multi-episode arcs with what you see. I didn't really feel like I had to Arguably the show's most popular character. defined storylines to build upon a larger, sea-come from that world." Biro Nakamura (Masi Oka) doesn't even speak son-encompassing arc. So far, these heroes 
English. But the little guy's ability to stop time have been anything but static-or dull. Reality meets fantasy and teleport from Tokyo to New York City in "A show has a life of its own," he said. "If 
Where "Heroes" differs from its comic book the blink of an eye makes him one of the most you're willing to listen to it, it will take you counterparts is in its execution. Awe-inspiring powerful beings on Earth. But even great lead-where it wants to be." · abilities and fantastical leaps of logic aside, ers start from humble beginnings. The epilogue to the "Heroes" pilot ends the Kring and the show's writers have built a From the very start, it's clear Biro is the way the prologue begins. A man gathers him­world that feels so real you can't help but be class clown, the character having the most fun self, closes his eyes and steps off the edge. Like swept away by its spectacle. There's no fiction­with his powers. '"I bend time and space," he Peter, viewers are taking the leap by the mil­al Metropolis, no prowling the dark streets of chortles gleefully in an early episode. A lions. Where "Heroes" goes from here is any­Gotham City. nerdish. Japanese office worker, Biro idolizes one's guess. Now it's just up to Kring and his 
Instead, the bright lights of New York City, Spock and aligns his moral compass to choices crew to decide how high it will soar. 
Tokyo. Las Vegas and Los Angeles take center made by the X-Men. While he begins as the stage, with characters struggling through a fic­most immature of the bunch, Hiro's journey Contact Rama Gottumukkala at tional world that's no simpler than the one through the first eight episodes have already rgottumu@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 



E Wednesday, November 15, 2006 
page 14 
SCENE FEATURE 
Superhero stories stay relevant despite age 
By SEAN SWEANY Assisram Scene Editor 
The phrase "Holy cow, Batman!" may mean little to most television audiences today, but its origin in the 1960s televi­sion series "Batman," starring Adam West, laid the groundwork for what has become a thriving and successful genre. Gone are the days of "Wham!" and "Pow!" from Batman and Robin ­rather, they've been replaced with more stylish and less satirical characters such as the young Clark Kent, or even Claire Bennett from "Heroes." 
Superhero television essentially began with the legendary George Reeves' "Adventures of Superman" in the 1950s. Limited and unrealistic speeial effects made the show goofy and endearing to its audience. Interest in both this era and program still runs high, as evi­denced by the recent film "Hollywood­land," which dramatized Heeves' death and his portrayal of Supprman. 
The new medium of color television in the 1960s allowed ABC to breathe life into the Batman and Robin story in the twice-weekly serials that have become affectionately revered for their corniness and overly-dramatic storytelling. The ability of heroes like the Caped Crusader to sell color televisions ensured a thriv­ing market for the new technology. 
The success of "Batman" also led to a surplus of hero-centered and superhero­based programs on television. A heavy 
reliance on expository scripts and basic special effects helped "The Green Hornet," "The Six Million Dollar Man" and "Wonder Woman" find success with viewers in the 1960s and 1970s. 
In large part, these television pro­grams achieved such success because superheroes did not thrive on the big screen. Film adaptations of superhero stories either did not exist, or were done so poorly in this era that they found no audience. The simple and effective method of serialized storytelling on tele­vision was the easiest and most realistic manner in which such stories could be told. 
The late 1970s found studios taking different approaches from the campy styles of "Batman" or "Wonder Woman." This latest type came into prominence in the form of "The Incredible Hulk." Less satiric (by 1970s standards) than its predecessors, the show placed a much stronger emphasis on drama and emo­tion, with great success. At a time when superhero shows were a dying breed, "The Incredible Hulk" showed that dif­ferent approaches to the genre were necessary in a new day and age. 
This trend continued with ABC's "Lois and Clark: The New Adventures of Superman," which reexamined the Superman saga from a more romantic point of view. New perspectives like this became increasingly necessary due to the new capacity for theatrical films to convincingly use special efl'ects in telling superhero stories. 
More recently, successful big screen adaptations of franchises like "Batman" and "Spider-Man" forced television to seek alternate ways of depicting super­heroes -ways that could continually 
attract elusive audiences. "SmaJJville," a show on the now-defunct WB {and cur­rently airing on the CW), did this effec­tively by focusing on the teenage years of Clark Kent in an attempt to reach out to younger audiences. 

The extreme rash of comic book superhero stories being adapted in recent years has caused television to draw from other, more original material. Here enters NBC's "Heroes." This wildly successful show focuses less on welJ known superheroes, working to create its own mythos with more ordinary, everyday heroes. 
Despite departing in nearly every aspect from its predecessors, "Heroes" still draws from one defining trait. It portrays on a weekly basis the actions and exploits of people who are more than human and possess extraordinary talents. The innate desire of human beings to participate in the lives of these characters, week in and week out, is a powerful force, whether accomplished comically, romantically or dramatically. This has allowed hero-themed shows to remain one of television's major draws, and will continue to do so for a long time to come. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Ferrell, cast shine in 'Stranger than Fiction' 
By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Editor 
The term "modern-day fairytale" is often associated with films like "Shrek," or similar animated features. "Stranger Than Fiction," is truly a modern fairytale -an original story, set in modern times and just realistic enough that the audi­ence gets lost in a magic, endearing story. 
In this sweet romantic comedy, and in an incredible performance, Will Ferrell stars as IRS auditor Harold Crick, who suddenly and inexplicably finds himself as a novel's main character. Harold goes about his mundane and obsessively pre­cise life as a tax-man until he suddenly hears a narrator describing his every thought and action -and "with a better vocabulary." It 
In the meantime, Harold begins to fall in love for the first time with one of his clients, rebellious baker -and Harold's complete opposite -Ana Pascal (Maggie Gyllenhaal). 
The movie alternates back and forth between Harold, the bewildered protag­onist trying to unravel the mystery of his narrator, and the narrator herself, reclu­sive author Kay Eiffel (Emma Thompson). 
Suffering from writer's block, Eiffel decides that she is going to kill Harold, without having decided how. In order to help her along, her publisher sends an assistant (Queen Latifah) to help her kill off her protagonist. 
While the plot is unrealistic (remem­ber, it's a modern-day fairy tale), the act­ing is what holds the film together. 
Ferrell is surprisingly streamlined and 
low-key as Harold Crick, 
starts out mostly a departure from his
Stranger than Fiction
as an obnoxious typical roles. He never and inconvenient 
overplays Harold's com­distraction until ing of age, allowing the the narrator says audience to believe the that Harold is journey and travel rightDirector: Marc Forster 
going to die. along with him. 
Writer: Zach Helm
In order to try Also, Gyllenhaal's wild 
and prevent his Starring: Will Ferrell, Dustin Hoffman, baker-woman is a won­imminent death, Emma Thompson, Maggie Gyllenhaal, derful compliment to 
Harold goes to Queen Latifah andTony Hale Ferrell's calm Crick, and 
visit professor and literary expert Jules Hilbert (Dustin Hoffman}. Hilbert then attempts to deci­pher, through the clues given by Harolds narrator, whether Harold's story is a comedy or a tragedy, while also discern­ing to whom the mysterious author's voice might belong. 
the two share an adorable chemistry. 
Hoffman and Thomson round out the main cast as the professor and writer, respectively. Both deliver eccentric and quirky performances. 
First-time screenwriter Zach Helm delivers a seamless and intelligent 

Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 
Lonely auditor Harold Crick (Will Ferrell), center, decries the omniscient voice of author Kay Eiffel (Emma Thompson) that narrates his life In "Stranger than Fiction." 
script, matched well by the efforts of vet­eran director Marc Forster ("Finding Neverland"). Forster keeps the tone and mood playful and warm through his var­ious visual and thematic elements. From the on-screen graphics of Harold's calcu­lating mind at work to the ingenious lit­erary references, the film is full of numerous hilarities that are not essen­tial to the plot, but instead stimulate the imagination of the audience. 
The film finds its own voice and ground in the ever-present themes of self-awareness and fatalism. As the numerous characters struggle to gain control of their own lives. the film 
becomes a powerful study of how impor­tant it is to seize the day and live life to its fullest potential. 
While not nearly as deep as it could have been, "Stranger Than Fiction" still manages to work on a variety of levels. It doesn't quite reach the height of genius that similarly-themed films, such as 2004's "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind," have attained, but instead goes in a slightly different direction -switching that brilliance for heartwarming pleas­ure, a perfect move for a genuine fairy tale. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
Wednesday, November 15, 2006 page 15
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

POETRY l MUSIC! COFFEE! CONVERSATION SUN, NOV, HJ, 2006 AT 7 PM ! PHILBIN STUDIO THEATRE 
Chloe's Cabaret mixes poetry with live music in a coffee-house setting. Sunday's reading will feature Latina poet Sandy Florian, of whose work Carole Maso has said 'Wondrous ... lt makes you love the world all over again: Also reading will be Korean-American poet Cathy Park Hong, whose book Dance Dance Revolu­tion was selected by Adrienne Rich for the Barnard Women's Poetry Prize. Rich has called Hong's poetry "passionate, artful, worldly... it leaves this reader, at least, revitalized." 
THIS IS A FREE BUT TICKETED EVENT. CALL 631-2800 TO RESERVE TICKETS. 
VIENNA CHOIR BOYS 
KICK OFF THE HOLIDAY SEASON WITH THE WORLD'S MOST FAMOUS BOYS CHOIR 
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 26 AT 3:00PM LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL TICKETS: S36, S30 FACULTY/STAFFIUNiflRS, UD S15 All STUDENT& 

BROWNING 


CINEMA 
Filmmakers for the Prosecution: Securing the Film Evidence of Nazi Crimes Presented by FTT Talks and the Department of History Directed by Stuart Schulberg NR, 78 minutes Presented by Sandra Schulberg, film producer. Wed, Nov 15 at 7:00 pm 
. 
,, 
Some Mother's Son (1996) Nanovic Film Series Directed by Terry George Rated R, 1 12 minutes English and Gaelic language with English subtitles 35mm print Thu, Nov 16 at 7:00 and 10:00 pm 
House of Sand (2006) Directed by Andrucha Waddington Rated R. 103 minutes Portuguese language with English subtitles 35mm print Fri, Nov 17 at 7:00 and 10:00 pm 
Some Like H Hot (1959) PAC Classic 1 00 Directed by Billy Wilder Not Rated. 120 minutes 35mm print Sun, Nov 1 9 at 4:00 pm 
FILM LINE: 631·FILM 
Wednesday, November 15, 2006 
page 16 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 

Mavs bury Bulls; Nuggets cool heat; Hornets tame 'Cats 
"I get up for every game -it," said Stojakovic, who scored some games even a little more New Orleans' first 20 points of than others," Anthony said with the game. "When you're a shoot­a smile. "it's always fun playing er, you just shoot it even when against Dwyane and Miami, the you're missing-just trying to champions." get yourself involved in the 
l 
An 11-0 run beginning late in game, and when you make a the third quarter put the couple in a row your teammates Nuggets ahead to stay. Reggie start looking to you." Evans' basket made it 84-83, Stojakovic scored 22 points in 
and Earl Boykins made a 3-the first quarter --a franchise pointer -his first basket after record -and added 11 more eight misses -for an 89-83 during a 13-4 fourth-quarter lead. surge. 
Soon the margin was 95-85. "To me, Peja's always hot. I 
"It's that one dead spot for us," don't care if he's missed 10 shots Wade said. "We had one bad in a row, he's still hot if you ask stretch, and they went up 10 me," said Hornets guard Chris points on us." Paul, who had seven of his 10 
Miami cut a 12-point deficit in assists on baskets by Stojakovic. half in the final minutes with "That's just the kind of player he consecutive 3-pointers by Wade lS.. " and Antoine Walker. But the New Orleans picked up Nuggets sank six successive free Stojakovic in a sign-and-trade throws down the stretch. deal with Indiana in the offsea­
"We played our best offense son and gave him a contract and best defense in the fourth worth about $64 million over quarter," Karl said. five years. A three-time All-Star, 
Stojakovic entered the season as New Orleans 94, Charlotte 85 a 40 percent shooter from 3­From start to finish, Peja point range. 
Stojakovic kept showing why the "Whenever he misses, I usual­Anthony nets 33 as ball. Heat Tuesday night. New Orleans Hornets wanted ly say something to him because Denver edges A1iami Perhaps fired up by the chal­The Nuggets' point total was a him this offseason. I don't think he's supposed to 
lenge of going against Ben season high, and they outscored Stojakovic scored a career­miss," Paul said. Wallace or his recent return to Miami 54-36 in the paint. high 42 points and directed a Emeka.Okafor had 25 points,
Associated Press 

the starting lineup, Dampier got "We can't stop anybody right decisive fourth-quarter run as 16 rebounds and a career-high 
DALLAS -Dirk Nowitzki the game's first rebound and now," Heat coach Pat Riley said. the Hornets beat the Charlotte seven blocks to lead Charlotte. scored 31 points and Erick turned it into a layup. He got the The defending NBA champions Bobcats on Tuesday night, Adam Morrison, the No. 3 over­Dampier had season highs of 14 next rebound, too, then helped fell to 3-4 with their second con­breaking a three-game losing all pick in the NBA draft, points and 13 rebounds, helping force Nocioni to miss a layup. secutive loss, both at home. streak. matched his career high with 21 the Dallas Mavericks beat the Soon afte~ he grabbed the Anthony lost his scoring duel "I just came out aggressive, points, and reserve Sean May Chicago Bulls 111-99 Tuesday rebound of Nowitzki's miss and with fellow 2003 draft pick playing like every other game. I scored 18. 
night for their first home victory tossed it back to Nowitzki for an Dwyane Wade, who had 37 got going, so guys kept looking The loss was the fourth of the season. assist, just his second of the sea­points, 11 assists and eight for me," Stojakovic said. "I kept straight for Charlotte. 
Dallas won its third straight son. rebounds. But the Nuggets playing, I kept shooting the ball. "We're hurting ourselves," following an 0-4 start. Two of His first dunk made it 15-5. He reached .500 by winning their "I don't know how to describe Bobcats coach Bernie Bickerstaff those early losses were at home later threw one down so hard third in a row after an 0-3 start. 
and the Mavs came out intent on the basket frame shook for sev­"A week ago the media had us 
avoiding a rare three-game eral seconds, then early in the buried," coach George Karl said. 
home losing streak. second half dunked off an acro­"Now we're good." 
With Dampier setting an ener­batic pass from Devin Harris. The Heat were again without getic tone, Dallas led by 10 with­Nowitzki was 10-of-19 and Shaquille O'Neal because of a in a few minutes. Chicago briefly made all 10 of his foul shots. He hyperextended left knee, his sec­went ahead in the second quar­also had 10 rebounds, and ond injury to the knee this sea­ter, but never got closer than 70-seemed to have extra vigor after son. His status is day to day. 67 in the second half. A nearly an early stuff by Deng that "If he wants to stay in Miami 4-minute scoring drought early knocked Nowitzki to the ground. when they come to Denver in in the fourth quarter doomed the He came back with a jumper December, that would be good," Bulls' comeback hopes. in the lane punctuated by a Karl said. 
Kirk Hinrich scored 25 points Michael Jordan-esque tongue Miami is also without starting and Luol Deng added 24 for wag, then a dunk with an guard Jason Williams, still Chicago, which was opening a emphatic scowl. Nowitzki also recovering from offseason knee seven-game road trip and break­went down hard in an early surgery. He might return Friday. ing in a new starting lineup. third-quarter collision with "Right now we have to almost Chris Duhon and Andres Nocioni Wallace, but neither seemed too be perfect to win," Riley said. joined the first five, with Ben shaken up by it. Nowitzki also Thanks to fouls on Gary Gordon and P.J. Brown going to was hit with a technical foul with Payton, the Nuggets converted a the bench. 3:37 to play after disagreeing pair of four-point plays in the 
Gordon, who had been 2-of-18 with consecutive calls. second quarter. J.R. Smith sank his last two games, was 6-of-18 Wallace, coming off an 18-a 3-pointer, was fouled and for 17 points. rebound game, had only eight made the free throw. Andre 
Jerry Stackhouse added 21 for and six points. Nocioni scored Miller was fouled attempting a Dallas, which has beaten 11, while Duhon had only two on 3-pointer and made all three Chicago in 16 of the last 1 7 1-of-6 shooting. free throws, which were coupled meetings. with another free throw when 
il 
Dampier usually takes over a Denver 112, Miami 105 Payton drew a technical for handful of games every season, The Miami Heat tried fouling protesting the call. and this was certainly one for from beyond the 3-point line, Miller had a season-high 29 his 2006-07 collection. He was and even then they failed to stop points, 10 assists and eight 7-of-8, with five dunks, and the Denver Nuggets. rebounds for the Nuggets. They blocked three shots in 36 min­Carmela Anthony scored 33 missed 21 of 27 3-pointers, but utes, with highlight-worthy plays points and Denver twice convert­Anthony did plenty of damage nearly every time he touched the ed four-point plays to beat the inside and shot 13-for-26. 
' ( The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
' I 024 South Dining HalL Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
' I The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
' ( CLASSIFIEDS 
'I 
' ( 
' I 


'I  
' I' (• i >I > I .( • !  WANTED  BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam­pus homes & weekend rentals. Bluegoldrentals.com  Furnished 1 bdrm Jamison condo. Nov-May 07.  TICKETS  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK­ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232· 2378.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue  
WANTED: 1990 or 91 The Shirt.  HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2·6  Call Mary Anne  FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232­ Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more  
~  '  $100 for quality shirt. Call Dan at  Bedrooms  607-723-7363 or  0964  PERSONAL  information, visit our web site at  
f f f f ' !  712-251-0930. FoR RENT  www.NDstudentrentals.com 7 bedroom furnished house avail­able now. Perfect for FOOTBALL  607.770-0944. E Washington St., updated,  WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251· 1570  Watch Scrubs! Starts Nov. 30 at 9:00 right after "The Office" on NBC.  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer.  
weekends/reunions.  4 bed,2 baths, wash/dryer, A!C,  WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS.  Joey has shiny hair.  
2-6 BDRM HOMES 07-08 OR  269-369-1 003.  security system, dishwasher,  TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY  Niners: 4·5. One game out of the  
NOW. 574-329-0308  Photos available.  NICE! Call John 574-274-5692.  WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726.  playoffs.  let's go Baylor!  


OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Wednesday, November 15, 2006 
COMPILED FROi\1 T'HE 0BSERVEI(S \VIRE SERVlCES page 17 
NBA 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic 
team record pet. GB New Jersey 3-3 .500 Philadelphia 3·3 .500 Toronto 2·4 .333 1 New York 2·6 .250 2 Boston 1·6 .143 2.5 
Eastern Conference, Central 
team record pet. GB Cleveland 5·2 .714 Indiana 4-3 .571 1 Chicago 3-3 .500 1.5 Detroit 3·4 .429 2 Milwaukee 2·5 .286 3 
Eastern Conference, Southeast 
team record . pet. GR 
.

Atlanta 4-2 .667 Orlando 5·3 .625 Washington 3-3 .500 1 Miami 3-3 .500 1 Charlotte 1~5 .167 3 
Western Conference, Northwest 
team record pet. GB 
Utah 6·1 .857 Portland 4-3 .571 2 Seattle 4--4 .500 2.5 Denver 2·3 .400 3 Minnesota 2·4 ,333 3.5 
Western Conference, Pacific 
team reeord pet. GB 
LA Clippers  5·1  .833  
Sacramento  4·2  .667  
LA Lakers  5-3  .625  
Golden State  4"'3  .571  
Phoenix  2-5  .286  


..·:;: 

Western Conference.,So~tb\'l(~t ·ri ;:~ 
team record pet. 
San Antonio 5-r·· ·.•833 
' Houston 5-2 .714 NO/Oklaltoma City 4-3 ·.571 1.5 Dallas 2.,4 .333 3 Memphis ·. 1-5 .167 4 


CCHA Standings 
team record points 
1 Miami 5"3·0 10 2t. Michigan 4"2·0 8 2t. Alaska 3"1·2 8 4t. NOTRE DAME 3"0·1 7 4t. Michigan State 3-2·1 7 4t. Northern Michigan 3"2·1 7 4t. Western Michigan 3-4·1 7 81. lake Superior 3-3-0 6 8t. Ohio State 2-4·2 6 10 Nebraska-Omaha 2"3-1 5 11 Ferris State · 1-4·1 3 12 Bowling Green 1-5-0 2 
around the dial 
TODAY 
NBA Grizzlies at Kings 9 p.m., ESPN 

NCAA FOOTBALL Miami (Ohio) at Bowling Green 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 2 
NCAA BASKETBALL Preseason NIT 
10:30 p.m., ESPN 2 
MLB 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Brandon Webb of the Arizona Diamondbacks won a wide-open race for the NL Cy Young Award, beating out San Diego closer Trevor Hoffman on Tuesday. 
One of six pitchers who tied for the league lead with a pedestrian total of 16 wins, Webb received 15 of 32 first-place votes and 103 points in ballot­ing by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. Hoffman, who broke the career saves record this season, got 12 first-place votes and 77 points. 

St. Louis Cardinals ace Chris Carpenter, Iast year's winner, finished third with two first"place votes and 63 points. 
"All three of us proba­bly were deserving of it and probably a couple more guys, too," Webb said. "I knew that I had a pretty good chance." 
Houston's Roy Oswalt, who led the NL with a 
2.98 ERA, got the other three first-place tallies and came in fourth. 
Webb, who went 16-8 with a 3.10 ERA and made his first All-Star team, was listed second on seven ballots and third 
on seven others. No pitch­er was included on every Cy Young Award entry. 
"It was pretty big emo" tions. We were very excit" ed for it," Webb said. "It's with you forever. To have that title go along with you means a lot." 
Webb's victory total was the lowest for a starting pitcher who won the Cy Young Award in a full season. The previous low was 17 wins, by Pedro Martinez of the Montreal Expos in 1997 and Randy Johnson for Arizona in '99. 
Fernando Valenzuela of the Los Angeles Dodgers was honored with a 13"7 
record in 1981 and Atlanta's Greg Maddux went 16-6 in '94 -but those seasons were cut short by players' strikes. 
"A lot of the wins pitch­ers can't control," Webb said. "You can give up one hit and still lose the ballgame." 

Webb also is the first NL winner to have an ERA above 3.00 since Philadelphia's Steve Carlton had a 3.10 mark in 1982. Rick Sutcliffe split the 1 984 season between Cleveland and the Chicago Cubs, finish­ing with a 3.64 ERA over­all but a 2.69 mark in the 
NL. 
IN BRIEF 

FSU's Bowden resigns as New ball~ark in the works for Roddick comes up short offensive coordinator Oakland Athletics against Federer in Shanghai 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -For months, SAN JOSE, Calif. -The Oakland SHANGHAI, China -Andy Roddick Florida State fans have clamored for Athletics unveiled grand plans was one serve from finally ending his the ouster of offensive coordinator Jeff Tuesday to move south and build a losing streak against Roger Federer. Bowden, blaming him for the team's long-awaited, state-of-the-art stadium Not close enough. This, after all, is woes. they hope will soon transform the Federer. 
Tuesday, Bowden ended the debate, small-market club into a big spender. The top-ranked Swiss saved three resigning just three days after the Not to mention elevate the Ns to a match point'> and beat Roddick 4-6, 7-6 Seminoles were shut out for the first new status level comparable to the (8), 6-4 in the Masters Cup. Roddick had time in 233 games. rival Giants across San Francisco Bay been serving in the second-set tiebreak­
His resignation will take effect at -and perhaps even tap into a Silicon er before his biggest weapon misfired season's end, said athletic director Valley fan base that has largely once. David Hart Jr. said. Then, Bowden, the belonged to San Francisco. "It's just frustrating," Hoddick said. "I youngest son of Seminoles head coach "This is, I say a dream because was real close. I think that makes it a lit­Bobby Bowden, will be reassigned out­those who have followed sports for a tle bit harder, knowing you're one of side the athletic department until his long time know this has always been your best shots away -one serve contract expires in August 2007. an issue," said A's general manager away." 
"I believe in my heart that for Bobby Billy Beane, whose team was swept in "It's not easy," he added. ''I'm sure it Bowden this is the decision that I need the AL championship series last won't be the last time I think of it to make," Jeff Bowden said. "I could month by Detroit. "It never seemed tonight." not be happier that I had this opportu­like a reality." Federer extended his unbeaten nity." The A's, in partnership with Cisco sequence in round-robin matches at the 
Hart said Bowden, 46, came to him Systems, Inc., agreed to purchase 143 season-ending championship. to 14. He Monday, and an agreement was acres of land from Cisco in suburban also won his 26th consecutive match worked out. Details are pending, Hart Fremont, about 30 miles south of the and became the first player to surpass said, and will be released Wednesday. current stadium. $7 million in prize money in a season. 

! . ~ 

page 18 
MLB 
Washington hires Acta as manager 
I ( Johnson, catcher ..This is the capital Still, Kasten and I I Brian Schneider, Acta spoke about
of the world, and 
starting pitcher how having the
this is the world·s 
John Patterson only Dominican and closer Chad team. Not manager in the Cordero. majors would help
America ·s team ­
"Frank was attract Latin play­
the world·s team.,, 
more of an old­ers and help school guy. We're expand marketing going to have to Manny Acta to Hispanic fans. wait and see how At one point, Acta
Washington manager 
it's going to be with Manny," Schneider said. "Be's young. He's motivated. He's waited to do this for a long time. He knows the game of baseball." 
Team president Stan Kasten and general manager Jim Bowden said Acta impressed them with his personality, his knowledge of the Nationals and his ideas about how to turn around .a club that finished last in the NL East the past three seasons. 
"Usually, with a manager, they're strong in one area or the other. He's really well-bal­anced, all the way around," Bowden said. "He really under­stands teaching, developing, building a young club. He has great people skills, but he knows how to put the hammer down." 
The Nationals hope to be competitive when Washington's new stadium opens in 2008. 
"We have a very good plan in place here. We're going to do it the right way," Acta said. 
"We're going to be patient, and we're going to bring a winner here." 
Set to lead what's expected to be an inexperienced roster next season, Acta noted that Washington's most pressing problem is starting pitching, where Patterson is the only given. Acta said the defense needs to improve and that he will stress fundamentals. 
"Everyone who's been with him has raved about him," Kasten said. "He came in here probably more prepared than any candidate we had, knowing our roster, knowing the holes in our roster." 
Washington interviewed sev­eral people for the job with varying degrees of experience; Lou Piniella and Joe Girardi both withdrew from considera­tion. Bowden acknowledged it was "a very long process" with "a lot of candidates," and said Acta was part of a group of five up-and-comers under consider­ation. 
Acta agreed to a two-year contract with two one-year club options. 
He managed eight seasons in the minors and five in the Dominican Winter League, and he led the Dominican Republic to the semifinals at the World Baseball Classic this year. 
During that tournament, Acta benched a struggling Alfonso Soriano, the All-Star who hit 46 homers and stole 41 bases for the Nationals in 2006 and has filed for free agency. 
Acta said Soriano was the first player who called to con­gratulate him on his new job ­although Acta, Kasten and Bowden all cautioned they fig­ure the size of a contract will have more to do with where 
Soriano winds up 
than who the 
manager is. 
addressed fans in 
Spanish saying, 

"This is the capi­tal of the world, and this is the world's team. Not America's team -the world's team." 
He played six seasons of minor league baseball in the Houston Astros' organization before becoming a coach in Class-A in 1992. That began a climb, first through the minors, then the majors. 
"How appropriate: An immi­grant from the Dominican Republic like me comes to America, works hard, keeps his nose clean and gets his chance to manage the capital of the United States' baseball team," said Acta, who became a U.S. citizen in 1999. "God bless America. Only here." 
He flashed a broad grin repeatedly: When he stepped to the podium. When he donned a jersey with the number 14 and his name on it. When he drew laughs with his quick wit. 
Bowden was giddy, too, at one point yelling into the micro­phone: "Let's Acta-vate, baby!" 
Wednesday, November 15, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Join North Dining Hall for a special 
T KSGIVING 
November 23rd _12:00 p.m. -3:30p.m. 
.4dults: $15. Z5 Children ages 6-JZ: $765 Children 5 and under: Free 
MENU 
HORS D'OEUVRES 
Pumpkin Dip in a Bread Bowl \"'1lite Bean Dip in a Bread Bowl Mulled Cranberry Apple Cider Cranberry Orange Pomegranate Punc.h Spinach and Artichoke Dip Vuiety of Gourmet Breads 
SALADS _ 
Spina<ch. Mixed frisee. 11esdun Gn~ens Avocado Dr\'ssing Hot Bacon Dressing Roasted Red Pepper Vinaigrette Fruit Salad with Tangerine Dressing 


Our Investment Services Department can help you make the investments that are right for you. 
Contact us today for your FREE Investment Consultation! 
Investment Services Center located at: Ill West Edison Road 
r4. NOTRE DAME
Mishawaka, IN 46545 
.VII FEDERAL CREDIT UNION
574/254-4416.·www.ndfcu.org 
Lobster Bisque New Englm•d Squush 
ENTREES 

Roasted Tom Ttn·key B:~ked Ham with [ri$h Whi~hy Clm~E' Grill<'d Halihut with Apple and Horseradish Squash Butternut lcH'tellini 
SJDES 

Candied Sweet PotatOes Fresh Garlic Mashed Potatoes Sage & Onion Stuffing Green Bean Casserole 
Nj?RTH

fresh Carrots with Cranberries Giblet Gravy or Turkey Gravy FOOD COURT 
~ 
Former Mets bench coach takes over for Frank Robinson 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Manny Acta began preparing to be a major league manager when he was the only kid with a catcher's mitt in his neighborhood back in the Dominican Republic. 
"So I was like, 'I'm running the game, or I'm taking the glove away,"' Acta recalled Tuesday. ''I've run games all my life." 
Now he'll run them for real from big league dugouts after being hired by the Washington Nationals, who made him the youngest manager in the majors. 
The 3 7 -year-old Acta, the New York Mets' third-base coach the past two years. replaces 71-year-old Frank 
'' I Robinson, who was the oldest
' ' 
. I 
l 
( manager in baseball and was ' ~ told during the final week of a ( 71-91 season that he wouldn't 
i 
be back. Robinson was a Hall of Fame 
player who managed in the majors for 16 seasons. Acta's days as an infielder ended in the minors -when he was 20, he said, "they told me to my 
I 
face I couldn't play"-and this 
is his first major league manag­! ing job. \ It's a return of sorts: Acta was 
Robinson's third-base coach
~ 
( 
with the Montreal Expos from 
2002-04, before the franchise 
moved to the nation's capital. 
So Acta -who said he learned 
a lot from Robinson, particular­
ly about communicating with 
players -already knows some 
key veterans, 
including first 
( 
baseman Nick 
Wednesday November 15, 2006 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Paterno back with team after surgery 
JoePa will likely be in press box Saturday 
Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE -The rolled-up khakis, the thick­rimmed glasses, the nasally voice. The familiar sights and sounds of Joe Paterno returned briefly on Tuesday to Penn State. 
More than a week after under­going surgery on his left leg, the 79-year-old head coach felt well enough to come to practice, and might even be back in a Beaver Stadium press box for this weekend's regular-season finale, defensive coordinator Tom Bradley said Tuesday. 
"We're assuming that's where he'll be, but you never know where he might end up," Bradley said with a sly grin. "I wouldn't be surprised if he's on the 50 (yard line), OK? Somehow, some way." 
That might be a stretch, given that a team doctor has said he would allow Paterno to return on game days only if he's calling the shots from above the field ­and not on the 50-yard line ­provided his recovery is pro­gressing well. 
It's going well enough, though, that Paterno attended part of Tuesday's practice and spoke to the Nittany Lions (7-4, 4-3) as they readied for Saturday's con­test against Michigan State (4-7, 1-6 Big Ten). Because Paterno must stay off his feet for at least another five weeks, team offi­cials rigged a golf cart that allowed the coach to watch practice while keeping his legged propped up. 
Paterno had surgery last week to repair a broken shinbone and two torn knee ligaments in his left leg, injuries sustained after getting hit along the sideline by two players on Nov. 4 at Wisconsin. 
Adhering to doctors' orders, Paterno sat out last week's 4 7-0 win against Temple, missing just his second contest in 41 years as head coach. The only other JoePa-less game in that period was in 1977, after Paterno sat out following an accident involv­ing his son, David. 
Instead, Paterno watched his team from home on Saturday, forced to play armchair quarter­back. 
On Sunday afternoon, team captains Levi Brown and Paul Posluszny showed up at Paterno's doorstep to present their coach a game ball. It was the first time Posluszny had seen Paterno since the Wisconsin game. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Athletic director supports Knight 
School officials back coach after recent incident with one ofhis players 
Associated Press 

LUBBOCK -Texas Tech coach Bob Knight says there were times he was wrong when his hot temper got the best of him on a basketball court. Not this time, however. 
This time, everyone from the player he confronted to the player's mother and school offi­cials say what Knight did was no big deal. 
It all started Monday night when Knight went after Michael Prince, forcefully pushing his chin upward and telling him to look him in the eye, during a timeout late in the Red Raiders' 86-74 victory over Gardner­Webb. 
Athletic director Gerald Myers defended Knight on Tuesday, saying he did nothing wrong when he "quickly lifted" Prince's chin. The president of the school's faculty senate, James H. Smith, said Knight's action was not "physical abuse or vio­lence." 
Knight, with a history of chair­throwing, referee baiting and run-ins with school officials, was not available for comment to The Associated Press before Tuesday night's home game against Arkansas-Little Rock. 
'Tm sure there were some cases where I have been wrong, but (Monday night) wasn't one ofthem," Knight told ESPN.com. "I was trying to help a kid, and I think I did. 
"I flipped his chin up and told him to look me right in the eye so he could do the job we want. I said, 'Can you?' And he said, 'Yes,' and I said, 'OK, sit down and let's go.' If that's an issue, then I'm living in the wrong country." 
Prince told the Lubbock Avalanche-Journal after Monday's game that what hap­pened with the coach "was nothing." 
"He was trying to teach me and I had my head do\-\-n, so he raised my chin up," said Prince, who was seen moving his jaw around as he sat on the bench after the confrontation. "He was telling me to go out there and don't be afraid to make mis­takes. He said I was being too hard on myself." 
Prince's mother, Suzette Prince, told the Avalanche­Journal that she was sitting with her husband, Mike, across from the Tech bench. She said she didn't think this episode should be an issue. 
"We talked with Michael, and he had just committed two fouls in a row," she said. "He told us that Coach Knight was asking him if he's ready to play. He said they needed him ready to play." 
She said she didn't think Knight should be reprimanded, and the school made no refer­ence to disciplinary action against Knight. 
"Coach Knight did not slap Michael," Myers said in a state­ment. "Michael came off the court with his head down, and coach Knight quickly lifted Michael's chin and said, 'Hold your head up and don't worry about your mistakes. Just play the game."' 
Knight gave a brief statement at the post-game news confer­ence Monday, then answered one question before exiting the room. He did not address what happened with Prince. 
It was win No. 871 for Knight, who is five shy of tying Adolph Rupp for second place on the men's career list. He needs nine more victories to surpass Dean Smith for the most victories in men's Division I history. 
Knight's career has featured three national championships, all at Indiana, but plenty of out­bursts. 
In 1992, Knight kicked a chair on the bench while son Pat, then a player for him at Indiana and now his assistant and successor­to-be at Texas Tech, was sitting in it. When fans behind the team bench booed, Knight turned and responded with an obscenity. 
He was accused of grabbing a player by the throat during a practice in 1997, an incident that was caught on videotape and created the whirlwind that eventually led to his firing from Indiana in September 2000. 
NOVEMBER 13-17-UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME lEW SPONSORSlnrERM110t1Al Office of the President; Office of International Studies; Office of the Dean, College of Arts and Letters; Office of the Dean, Mendoz2 College of Business; Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies; KelloggEOIACATDl Institute for International Studies; Nanovic Institute for European Studies; Campus Ministries; Department of Film, Theatre &Television; Career Center; Department of East Asian Languages &......-WEEK Literatures; Department of Romance Languages and Literatures; Department of German & Russian; International Student Services & Adivitie s; Center for Social Cone erns; Asian American Society; Fischer-a• Hara Grace Residences; Caribbean Working Group; Mendoza College of Business; Notre20 Dame Food Services; De Bartolo Perlorming Arts Center; Student International Business Council; Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies; Department of Africana Studies; Department of06 History; Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies along with Student Residence Halls and Cultural Clubs, and Student Government WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15 ... International "Jeopardy" Quiz Bowl Sponsored by N D's UQdergraduate Residence Halls, International Food Service 7pm; Game and Performances: 7:30pm; Keough Hall 24..Hour Lounge FFT and the Department of History present a Screening and Discussion Nuremberg, Its Lessons for Today 7pm; Browning Cinema, DPAC ALL WEEK LONG: International foods served in the Dining Halls. FAIRLY-TRADED GIFTS EVENT continues_, featuring handcrafts from developing countries produced for Ten Thousand Villages Monday-Thursday, 10am-4pm; Dooley Room, First Floor LaFortune AND Friday, 10am­4pm; Atrium, Mendoza College of Business FOR FULL CALENDAR OF EVENTS: www.nd.edu/-issa/IEW.htm  

page 20 
MLB 
Boston wins bidding war for prized pitcher 

l~ed Sox offer of$51.1 
million is highest from 
any team in 1najors 
Associated Press 
NAPLES -The Boston Red Sox emerged Tuesday night as winners of the bidding for Daisuke Matsuzaka with a $51.1 million offer and have 30 days to sign the Japanese pitcher to a contract. 
The Seibu Lions of Japan's Pacific League announced they had accepted the high bid for their prized pitcher, and the major league commissioner's office simultaneously confirmed at the general managers' meet­ings that the Red Sox had made the offer. 
"We're very pleased and excit­ed. We've long admired Mr. Matsuzaka," Boston general manager Theo Epstein said. "Matsuzaka has a real talent. He would be a great fit with the Red Sox organization. 
"We're excited to have won this part of the process. We're hopeful we can reach an agree­ment." 
Even before the announce­ment, general managers had assumed Boston would be the highest bidder in the blind
.-­
process. 
"We'll congratulate the winner and move on," New York Yankees GM Brian Cashman said Tuesday afternoon. 
Matsuzaka is repres-ented by Scott Boras, who last year nego­tiated the deal that moved center fielder Johnny Damon from the Red Sox to the Yankees. 
"Pitching, as usual, is at a pre­mium," Boras said. 
! 
Agents roamed the lobby at the hotel where GMs are meeting, discussing their free-agent clients. Some agents think the market will move more quickly this offseason because of the decision by management and the players' association to eliminate ~ the· Dec. 7 deadline for free 
I 
l 
i agents to re-sign with their for­( mer teams unless they were offered salary arbitration. Second baseman Mark DeRosa became the first major league free agent to switch teams, leav­( ing Texas for a $13 million,
! t t 
I 
( 
~ 
I 
~ 
three-year contract with the Chicago Cubs. 
The Mcts re-signed two play­ers, agreeing to a $12 million, two-year contract with 41-year­old pitcher Orlando Hernandez and a $3.8 million, one-year deal with second baseman Jose Valentin. 
Mets general manager Omar Minaya said some teams are unsure of where the marketplace is going, "so if they could do something quick, they're going to try to do it." 
Mike Mussina's agent, Arn Tellem, kept up talks with the Yankees on a new contract for the pitcher that likely will be worth $23 million to $25 million over two years. 
"We're in the red zone," Tellem said. 
With Barry Zito and Jason Schmidt heading a weak free­agent class, pitchers will get top prices. 
"There are 30 clubs and prob­ably three-quarters are looking for pitching," new Chicago Cubs manager Lou Piniella said. "There's a lot of interesting pitchers out there. At the end of the year, the teams that have pitching, and healthy pitching, are usually the ones that are around." 
GMs, as usual, will hold their annual discussion Wednesday of whether to have instant replay available to umpires, a concept commissioner Bud Selig opposes. In the past, the idea hasn't gar­nered enough support. 
"I guess we'll get a sense of that tomorrow," said Joe Garagiola Jr., a senior vice presi­dent in the commissioner's office. 
There will also be talk Wednesday of whether to elimi­nate tie games, having them instead become suspended games. On Thursday, the GMs will discuss whether to have uni­form standards for storing base­balls, a talk prompted by the usc of a humidor by the Colorado Rockies at Coors Field. 
As for the postseason schedule, nothing seems to have come of the idea floated by Selig to give wild-card teams fewer home games in the playoffs. 
"That is not officially on the agenda, so I suspect that will be some good lobby talk," Garagiola said. 
Wednesday, November 15, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS 
T11ougltt you couldn't study abroad? Don't want to miss a semester on campus? 

Study Abroad this Summer through ND! 
Vienna, Austria Paris, France Dublin, Ireland Milan, Italy Rome, Italy Puebla, Mexico Auckland, New Zealand Toledo, Spain Kampala, Uganda London, United Kingdom 
Come to an information session to learn more ... 
Wednesday, November 15, 2006 5:30pm 215 Hayes Healy 
·--·--------··-----··-------------' 
Application deadline is March 1, 2007! 
It's powerful because it's true. 
Loyal Daughters 
Aplay written from interviews of55 students and faculty on sexuality and sexual assault at Notre Dame 
Nov.l3-16 @7:30 
' 

Written/Produced by Emily Weisbecker Directed by Madison Liddy 
Call DPAC at 574-631-2800 to reserve free tickets. Sponsored by the Gender Studies Program with help from UROP 

Wednesday, November 15, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

Rebound 
continued from page 24 
always take," he said. "I got a couple of steals and a bunch of open looks and my shots just fell." 
Several of Carter's opportuni­ties came off passes from point guard Kyle McAlarney, who only scored three points but dished out 12 assists. 
"He's our point guard," Carter said. "That's what he does." 
Carter said improved team­work led to the better result Tuesday. 
"Everyone was really unselfish offensively and defen­sively," he said. "When we do that we're a tough team to beat." 
The senior also added that Notre Dame's summer condi­tioning paid off, allowing the Irish to bounce back just 24 hours after their first loss of the season. 
"Playing on back-to-hack days wasn't a problem," he said. ''I'm happy that we had another game after last night's loss." 
The Irish led for most of the contest, taking a 46-30 lead into the locker room, but they pulled away in the second half. Notre Dame opened up a 60-38 
lead in the first few minutes 
after the break and led by as 
much as 36 before Irish coach 
Mike Brey pulled his starters. 
The Leoparrls did not get an ofl'ensive rebound or score any points off turnovers until the closing minutes of the game. Guard Matt Betley, who scored 10 points on 4-of-7 shooting, led them offensively. 
Notre Dame freshman for­ward Luke Harangody scored in double figures for the third straight contest, pouring in 18 points on 7 -of-12 shooting from the field. Junior forward Rob Kurz had one of his best nights in an Irish uniform, scoring 18 points and grabbing eight rebounds. 
Kurz and Harangody split time in the post with sopho­more Luke Zeller, who scored eight points. All three got 20 minutes of playing time. 
Point guard Tory Jackson scored 10 points in relief of McAlarney, his first collegiate double-figure game. 
In total, 11 players saw the floor for the Irish, including four freshmen -Jackson, Harangody, guard Joe Harden and guard Jonathan Peoples. 
Notre Dame will be back in action Sunday at 4 p.m. against The Citadel at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Gioia 
continued from page 24 
"What they do is they do a really, really good job on defense on third down get­ting off the field," he said. "Teams are converting only 3 7 percent of the time on third down." 
But Weis is confident that the team, particularly the seniors, will be focused on Saturday's game. 
"I don't really believe in using just fake things for motivation," he said, refer­ring to the analogy of the playoffs. "I think that Senior Day alone and playing against Army should be enough to avoid any emo­tional letdown and looking past the next opponent." 
For Senior Day, all the players' parents were invited to the Friday night pep rally. 
"I like the way it was done before I even got here, that they bring [the parents] in on Friday night," he said. "Because on game day, you know, it gets to be kind of a distraction. It's already an emotional day as is, to real­ize this is it; this is the last home game of your career. But I like the fact that they get to be recognized on Friday night at the pep rally." 
In addition, all fourth and fifth-year seniors will stay at the team hotel the night 
before the game, even the ones who aren't expect­ed to see sig­nificant action Saturday. 
"I think it's something special for them to be a part of, because not everyone goes to the hotel the night before the game," Weis 

the last time, ever, at your + When asked, Weis called home stadium in front of the Michigan-Ohio State your home fans, in front of game, which kicks off at 3:30 your students that you've p.m. Saturday, "interesting." 
been  bud­ "I  think  
dies  with  turnovers  
for four years with your family and friends  ../ think that ifa starter doesn't stand up to starter performance, the starter·s  will decide the game," he said. "I think that  
here," he said. "How could you want to do  not the starter anymore. But Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday this week will  will be the critical fac­tor in the g a m e .  
anything  determine that. There will be  Whoever  
but play your best?"  a competition going on. ,,  turns it over, I think that  
The  fact  on  Sunday  
that  the  Charlie Wels  morning,  
game  is  Irish coach  you  look  

against Army only makes it more challenging, he said. 
"One thing you do know about any of the service academies . . . is you're always going to get their best," he said. "That's what you're going to get. You're never going to get anything but their best." 
Notes: 
+ Weis said that tight end John Carlson, who was injured against Air Force last week, will definitely not play against Army or USC. 
"He won't play this week," Weis said. "I could lie and say he's day-to-day, and just try to throw a smoke screen out there, but he won't play this week and he won't play next week. And he'll be at the hotel 
~7t•s the second round ofthe playoffs. IfI can •t get guys up for a playoffgam.e. rm doing something wrong, and I should be judged accordingly.,, 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 
and he'll travel with us the next week and he'll be ready to go for the bowl game, whatever bowl game that would be." 
In 2006, the senior has accumulated 46 catches for 621 yards and 
four  touch­ 
downs.  
Weis  said  

Carlson will not need a 
down and 
say, they 

turned it over this many 
times versus that many 
times, that team probably 
won the game." 
He declined to name which 
school he is cheering for, if 
any. 
"I root for Notre Dame," he said. "Whatever is best for Notre Dame, that's what I'm rooting for. Tell me what that is and that's what I'm root­ing for." 
+ After kicker Carl Gioia missed three extra points against Air Force, Weis said there will be "competition" for the kicker's spot this week. 
"I think that if a starter doesn't stand up to starter performance, the starter's not the starter anymore," he said. "But Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday this week will determine that. There will be a compe­tition going on." 
Gioia is 7-of-11 in field goals this season and 39-of­43 in PATs. His longest field goal is 40 yards. 
+ Quarterback Brady Quinn's name has been men­tioned in the Heisman race all season after he finished fourth last year. But Weis said he won't try to pad Quinn's stats at the expense of his safety. 
"I would love for Brady Quinn to win the Heisman Trophy, but I'm not going to risk Brady Quinn for stats," he said. "I would not do that." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
said. "So we have extra hotel rooms to make sure they are all there." 
Although this could be a "trap game" for the Irish, Weis remains confident in the focus of his players. 
"You're going to play for 
NDEER 2006: Sth Annual Symposium Notre Dame Environmental Education and Research 
Forging Integrative ~olutions: Challenges in Disease, Water Quality, and Pollution 
Thursday, Nov. 16, 2006 
8:30 a.m. -Noon Center for Continuing Education Morning Plenary Session: Open and free to the public 
8:45a.m.-9:45a.m  Dr. Austin Demby Director, CDC's Global AIDS Program, Malawi  
1o:oo a.m. ­ n:oo a. m. Douglass Rohrn1an Environmental Lawyer, Lord, Bissell & Brook  
n:oo a.m. -N oon  PeterAnnin Journalist & Author of"Great Lakes Water Wars"  

www.nd.edu/.vndeer 
medical procedure, just time to recover. 
"Fortunately it wasn't severe, but severe enough where if I play him in the USC game, I could do damage," he said. "So that would not be a smart thing to do." 

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2006 
8:00 PM, LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
Tickets:$10 Adults, $8 ND/SMC Facility/Staff $6 Senior Citizens, $3 Students Call 631-2800 or visit http://pclfonningarts.nd.edu 
~UNIVERSITY 0~ 
WNOTREDAME 

t ofMusic 


-
I ' 
----~~~-~ 
page 22 Wednesday, November 15, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Wednesdays and Saturdays Club Hermann Trophy semi­experience to some degree, the country in goals per -where there was a more finalists, and each won the especially the ones like the game. The Irish have consis­
Ready 

even spacing between games Big East Player of the Year Irish who received a first­tently controlled midfield, -they were 4-1-1 with at his respective position. round bye-could even be and Cahill-who has 10
continued from page 24 

three days between games Still, they haven't played a what the Irish need. shutouts -has stopped the into tomorrow's matchup is and 5-1 with two. game in a long time. Senior goalkeeper Chris shots that trickle through the whether or not the Irish will And although Notre Dame Yes, the Irish did play an Cahill, who the Notre Dame Notre Dame defense. be rusty. With a layover dominated the tempo of its intrasquad scrimmage two defense often leaves as a Still, one can't help but between games that rivals games and outshot oppo­Saturdays ago, but that spectator, has said he gets wonder how the Irish will
' 
the off-season, one can't nents all season, even in game lacked the atmosphere more work and sees better start off, especially against help but wonder if it will losses to South Florida and a second-shots in Illinois-Chicago, a team that take Notre Dame some time UAB, the statistic still war-round playoff practice. already has a tournament to regain their rants mentioning. match will He's cer-game under its belt and a legs, so to Irish coach have. tainly had shut out against Western
··we're hungry to play, which
speak. Bobby Clark said "It's never a lot of Illinois (a team that scored Notre Dame he felt the team quite the same is exciting. Once we get into that lately. the third most goals in the 
has performed Notre Dame has the had had a "fan-when you play The Irish nation this year).
a game, we could be in very
better this pieces to make a deep tastic" focus in against your­have had a Tonight, look for the first
good shape. " 
year on short­practice this selves," Clark chance to 15 minutes -where the
run through the NCAA 
er rest. For the week, but admit­said. rest and Irish have thrived all season first month of bracket. ted there's only More likely Bobby Clark recover -to be an indication of how the season, the one way to deter­than not, the from the the last two-and-a-half
Irish coach 
Irish played mine how the speculation season, weeks have gone and how 
games on Irish progressed about rust and and Clark the next two-and-a-half will 
Fridays and in the break. time off will has go. 
Sundays. In their Sunday "The only way we're going prove to be noticed a If the Irish come out shaky, 
contests, Notre Dame was 3-to find is by playing a game," nothing. Notre Dame is an spark developing in the lull. UIC might just be able to 
1 and knocked off Creighton he said. "You can tell me experienced, senior-laden "We're hungry to play, steal a game. 
and Indiana on consecutive tomorrow whether we're team that has attacked each which is exciting," he said. If they come out strong, the 
Sabbaths-both of whom sharper [or not]." game as a mature, focused "Once we get into a game, sky's the limit. 
were ranked No. 8 at the In the last two-and-a-half unit. At times, it has played we could be in very good 
time. weeks, a lot has happened. with almost mechanical effi­shape." The views expressed in this 
In the Friday games~ after Senior midfielder Greg Dalby ciency. Notre Dame has all the column are those of the 
four full days between con­and junior striker Joseph The long break between the pieces to make a deep run author and not necessarily 
tests, Notre Dame was 1-2-1. Lapira-who leads the conference tournament finale through the NCAA bracket. those of The Observer. 
After the Irish began play­nation in goals -were and the NCAA Championship Led by Lapira's 20 scores, Contact Eric Retter at ing their bi-weekly games on named Missouri Athletic opening-which all teams the Irish are tied for 13th in eretter@nd. edu 
The Notre Dame offense, led by junior forward Joseph
NCAA 

Lapira, will try to break down the Flames defense. 
continued from page 24 

The Irish average 1.97 goals Irish coach Bobby Clark says his per game, and they averaged team is ready to play again three scores per game during a after the break. seven game mid-season win­
"I think [the team] is very ning streak. excited to play a game of soccer, By receiving one of the 16 and I hope that available seeds they play a lot among the 48
..! think [the team] is 
of games over tournament 
the next couple excited to play a game of teams, Notre 
of weeks," soccer, and I hope that Dame earned 
Clark said. the right to stay 
they play a lot ofgames
In 2005, in South Bend 
over the next couple
Notre Dame for their first made a sur­ofweeks.,, game. Clark prise run to the hopes to maxi­Sweet 16 when mize the home
Bobby Clark 
it upset Indiana field advantage. 
Irish coach 
2-0 in "It's always Bloomington nice to play at before falling to Clemson 1-0 in home, but your home field does­the next game. Clark, however, n't win the game for you," Clark feels that his team is capable of said. "That being said, I would greater things this year. love it if we could get all the 
"We know we're one of the soccer fans to come out and top teams, but we want to prove cheer on the Irish." that we're one of the top 
teams," Clark said. "I think we Contact Greg Arbogast at Notre Dame's Corey Rellas battles Marquette's Matt Blouin for possession during the 4-0 Irish can do that if we go deep into garbogas@nd.edu victory Sept. 27 at Alumni Field. Notre Dame takes on Illinois-Chicago at home tonight. 
the tournament. This is an 

opportunity for us." 
A formidable test awaits the Irish when they take the field Wednesday night. 
Illinois-Chicago boasts an impressive record of 13-2-5 that includes wins over NCAA Tournament participants No. 8 Saint Louis and California-Santa Barbara. Playing in their first postseason match since 2000, the Flames comfortably defeat­ed Western Illinois 3-0 in the first round of the NCAA Tournament. 
"Any team that can go and win at Saint Louis and at Santa Barbara [is a good team]," Clark said. "They're a very sen­ior laden team with a lot of for­eign lads, so they're a bit older than usual. They're a very good team." 
The Illinois-Chicago offense has been led this year by play­making Croatian forward Tonci Skroce who tops the Flames in both assists {7) and points {21). It has been Illinois-Chicago's defense, however, that has got­ten the team to the second round of the NCAA Tournament. Illinois-Chicago has given up .33 goals per games this season posting shutouts in 13 of their 20 games. 
Are you a senior? Are you trying to figure out what to do next year? Do you like God? Do you like free pizza? Then come to the... 


Wednesday, November 15, 2006 page 23
The Observer+ TODAY 
JOCULAR 
My girlfriend is awesome. 
She dropped me off at 
DeBartolo. No cold walk. 
CROISSANTWORLD 

... 0~ M'\ (:rOb ... 
"ft-ie:..RE.S orJ£ MO~E. SPOT I£N Fof<. "G£N e>e:.~ , 
~UA\..\T\f IN 
PoP ME.t>IA"..• 
Has anyone ever told you that look beautiful with those 
r----'---' 

A~ftH~\o\'T Cl-ASS 1 -robAi 
WE..U-BE W~C..~INt:r O"E~ 1.00 ('Vu:..To~IA1S SE.c.R.E.T• C.OMME.~C:.IA\... S. 
'{OUf!.. ~OHE. .'WOf?.\C. 'u.--: \'S. To EA"t" Atol Er-lTIR..E SAC:% OF CA.ND'f C.Of?.N 1>-Nt::. WATc..H "!:>E.Al-Oft 1'-lO 
ALEC WHITE 
AW 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
I..A""f'E-~ ..• 


AL.ft.l u.~-r c:_L..ASS I NOW L.E.."TS D\Sc.usc; \SSue5 OF c.RoSS C::rE.NEAATiOr-lAl.. ~N~-ME. I>\,.._ 
CrENOE..f!.. 8u'"l..L.WO ~t:> 
-rHE.S.\ ~ ~ l-oo=z.woft..C -. 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ATLAN ~ 
I CI (] 
©2005 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
SUROC 

[IJ I I 
NAHZIG 
t 
www.jumble.com 
Jumbles: AHEAD 
Yesterday's 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

~ ~ ~ 
WHAT THE: MOVIE: DIRECTOR E:NDf:D UP WITH WHEN HE: TRIED FL-Y-FISHING. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 
BASIN WALLOP CASHEW 

Answer: Why they watched the hula dancers­IT WAS A "HIP" SHOW 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 38 Ice hockey 64 Stimulate game
1 _Strip 65 v. United 
interruption States, 19675 Fight off 39 Noted tower site decision limiting10 Magic charm 40 Initials on the wiretapping 

14 Wows 
high seas 15 Slip away, as 41 Less 
DOWN support sportsmanlike 
1 Breach 
16 Go up against 42 Round dance 2 "Shoo!" 
17 Headline? 43 Breakup line 3 Complete drip from a18 Thumb, e.g. 
4 Candidate for grammarian?
19 "Little in valedictorian
46 Steno's needSlumberland" 5 Turn in

(early comic) 47 Modern navigation aid, 6 Actress Moran
20 Breakup line for short of "Happy Days" from a data 48 Breakup line 7 "We have metinputter? 
from a farmer? the enemy and 23 Scottish river he is us"56 "Anything ~?" 
24 Canal locale speaker
57 What "audio" 25 Breakup line means in Latin 8 Tweak, say from an 
9"Hmmm ... " 58 Curseastronaut? 
60 In 10Oft-repeated33 Mountain lakes phrase
61 Dusk to dawn 34 Tarzan's 11 Word removed
62 "_walks into 

transportation from many
a bar ... " modern35 Pick, with ''for" 

63 Music of 36 Wiretapping 44 Express 52"_ Together"
wedding vows
37 Afr. or Eur. 1970's-80's rock evidence (song from 
45 Lorre's12 Parachutist's act "Grease")38 1970's fad item "Casablanca"13 Cornhusker

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
character

State tribe 39 Man of letters? 53 Casual denials 48 Sport
-:+~:-1 21 Cold war side 41 Unforeseen 54 Baltic capital 49 "Redhead" on 
"Sesame Street" 55 Letter-shaped
pounds 42 Notre Dame 
hardware item50 Midsize motor

"rl':+*.::+:':"f 25 Wanderlust, e.g. footballer coached by 51 Miami River's 59 End of 
~-:+.:":" 26 One of the Rockne outlet kindergarten?
Judds ':':':'t":-t'"::'t-=-t 27 Surrealist Max For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a
28 Manifest credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
-=-:+-=+~~:-4 29 "Home-Folks" 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
'":-t-=t-=-poet 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 30 First page of a Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 calendario past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
~=+=+::+:::-! 31 Mattress layer 
solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. ,_,a........-.......... 32 salts 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Travis Barker, 30; Yanni, 51; Prince Charles, 57; Elena Gomez, 20 
Happy Birthday: Let's get things straight this year. No more confusion about what you should or shouldn't do. Make your choice and just do it. You may bring other people or ideas into the equation along the way, but the main issue here is to stop being afraid of failure and focus on being productive. Your numbers are 4, 12, 22, 23, 36, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Make this a day that counts. Do something that will help you get ahead professionally or increase your earning power. You will have an opportunity to take care ofany pressing legal, financial or health matters.** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You won't find it easy to deal with emotional concerns about kids, elders or even your partner. Disagreeing will not resolve anything; take a direct approach and offer something in exchange. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone from your past may grab your interest again. Be sure this person isn't carrying a lot of baggage or still involved with someone else. Make sure any change is your choice, not based on someone else's desires. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will get a big surprise today. Your chance to do something really exciting depends on your ability to give in and let yourself go. Now is the time to make up your mind once and for all about what you really want and go after it. **** LEO (Joly 23-Aug. 22): You will be tempted to overspend. Back up and consider the bills you have to pay. Someone is likely to bug you or stretch your patience. Don't let anger get the better ofyou.** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can make this a very special day if you do things a little bit differently. Change should be high on your list. Consider what's not working in your life and do something about it.***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Pay closer attention to your investments and personal money matters. A contract may be causing you some grief. Minor health problems will flare up if you let yourself get rundown. Someone may be a burden. ** * SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Put yourself in the spotlight, and be confident that you've done your research and will outshine anyone who questions your thoughts. An opportunity to make a career move is apparent. Don't waffle; follow through with confidence.*** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Put everything into work, making money and doing your best to get ahead. Try not to change your mind too much or you ­will confuse the people around you. Sudden changes may take place concerning your personal life.**"' CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will be industrious, and travel will be productive. A trend that is brought to your attention will be a wise bet. A partnership will develop with someone in whom you have an interest. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be careful how you treat the ones you love. There is a good chance you may be disappointed or let someone down by not following through with a promise. Offer to help others and you will feel better about yourself. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will have a chance to do something totally unique. Your attitude and unpredictability will make you irresistible today. Spend time with someone you really care about and your relationship will grow stronger.**** Birthday Baby: You are emotional, caring and true to yourself. You have a vivid imagination and a colorful way of expressing yourself. You are industrious 
and willing to help those in need. 

Eugenia's Web sites· astroadvice.comfor fun. eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
-------------------------------------------~-----------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint ~fary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer ­and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________~----------------------~ Address ____________________________________________________________________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
' . 


r. ) \ \ 
\~ 
' . 
THE OBSERVER 
' 
' 
p

Wednesday, November 15, 2006 

page 24 




ALLISON AMBROSE!The Observer 
Irish forward Joseph Lapira tracks down a serve in Notre Dame's 3-0 win over DePaul Sept. 10. The Irish take on Illinois-Chicago tonight at 7:30 at Alumni Field in their first NCAA Tournament game. 
fOOTBALL 

Weis focuses on 2nd round of 'playoffs' 
' '•I 

' 
I 
I I I 
I~ 
~ .. 

-...-­
'
' ' 
' 
' ~ 

I 
~ 
t 
i 
I I I 
i I 
( 
ait's end 
Clark wants 'fire' to top rust in battle with Illinois-Chicago 
It's been a long time. 

No. 12 Notre Dame hasn't played a game since i'ts 2-1 loss to Rutgers Oct. 28 in the second round of the Big East tournament -18 days ago-and it will have its biggest game of the season tonight against Illinois­Chicago at 7 
p.m. at Alumni Field. 

The Flames (13-5-2) looked impressive in their first-round victory, knocking off Western Illinois 3-0. 
The biggest question going 
see READY/page 22 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
No losing streak for squad 
Carter, Harangody avenge first loss, trounce Lafayette 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
One day after a heart­breaking loss to Butler, Notre Dame took out its frustration on a helpless Lafayette squad 92-60 in the consolation round of the NIT Season Tip-Off in Indianapolis Tuesday. 
"We had to redeem our­selves from last night's loss," Irish guard Russell Carter said. "We identified our mistakes and corrected them tonight." 
Notre Dame (2-1) lost to the Bulldogs 71-69 Monday after Carter missed a des­peration 3-pointer with 2.8 seconds left. 
Tusday, the senior vindi­cated himself, leading the Irish with 20 points on 8-of­12 shooting. He credited his high shooting percentage to the number of open looks he had at the basket. 
"It was just the shots I 
see REBOUND/page 21 

NCAA FOOTBAll 
MLB
MLB 
NBA 

Cy Young Award 
Dallas 111 

Penn State coach Joe 
The Washington 
Chicago 99 

Paterno will return to the 
Nationals hire Mets 
Arizona's Brandon 
sidelines Saturday, two 
Dirk Nowitzki scores
third base coach Manny 
Webb wins the National 
weeks after breaking a 
Acta to replace Frank 
31 in the Mavericks'
League award for top 
bone in his leg. 
Robinson as manager. 
home win. 
pitcher. 

page 19 
page 18 

page 16
page 17 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish fired up to play Flames in first game of NCAA Tourney 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 

After almost three weeks of preparation, No. 12 Notre Dame will finally play a game again -its most meaningful match of the season. 
The Irish will take on ,No. 23 Illinois-Chicago in the second round of the NCAA Tournament Wednesday night at Alumni Field. It will be the first game of the tournament for Notre Dame, which enters Wednesday's match with a record of 13-5-2. 
The Irish received the No. 12 seed, entitling them to a first round bye. It has been 18 days since Notre Dame's last game -a 2-1 overtime loss to Hutgers in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament, but 
see NCAA/page 22 
Coach says kicking job open for conzpetition after poor performance 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 

There isn't a question of keeping the team motivated for Army, according to Irish head coach Charlie Weis. 
"It's the second round of the playoffs," he said Tuesday. "If I can't get guys up for a play­off game, I'm doing something wrong, and I should be judged accordingly." 
Despite Notre Dame's trip to USC looming on Nov. 25, Weis is confident that his players are grounded and focused for their final game at Notre Dame Stadium this season. 
The Irish beat Air force 39­17 last week in what Weis called "the first round of play­offs." 
"I think the first round was important, too," he said. "If we don't play fairly well last week, then this week ... it would not be as important. So now this week becomes more 

MLB 

The Boston Red Sox win the bidding war for coveted Japanese pitcher Daisuke Matsuzaka. 
page 20 
important to make the next week more important. So I think that all those things happen and certainly helped us and helped magnify the importance of the game." 
Army is 3-7, including a 43­7 blowout loss in its last game, at home against Air Force Nov. 3. 
Weis hasn't discounted the Black Knights despite their record, noting that the team is preparing to see two quar­terbacks and two running backs Saturday. At the quar­terback position, Carson Williams, a true freshman, and Dave Pevoto have started this season, although Pevoto is the more experienced with eight starts in 10 games. In the backfield, Wesley McMahanad leads the team in rushes, and Tony Moore, another true freshman who has seen increased playing time as the season pro­gressed. Weis also expects most of the offensive line to rotate. 
On defense, Weis points to the Black Knights' low third­down conversion allowance. 
see PlAYOFF/page 21 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Texas Tech officials voice support for Bobby Knight after the coach's on-court incident with a player. 
page 19 





