-----------------~ 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 40: ISSUE 112 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29,2006 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Administrators question Facebook postings 
Faculty, staff at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's view students' profiles 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 
A<> a growing number of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students poke, post and tag their way into the Faccbook universe, administrators on both campuses are taking a closer look into the social­networking Web site -in some cases, creating their own accounts and viewing student profiles. 
Facebook, created two years ago by Mark Zuckerburg, has exploded in popularity across college eampuses nationwide. And since the only requirement for membership is a ".edu" e-mail address, virtually any staff member with a University e-mail address can join. 
Assoeiate Vice President of Student Affairs Bill Kirk said there is no formal policy "that would 

~ ~--·~.:S!..;I·-..-:: 
-..eyJOaq --" 
-~r......,."'I!F.._k~coli:art~_.,..Q~~;'F4l'M'~..W~olt0ta$,o.t..._ ~to;J~r«...~ii!ttM....WJD.!'uirn!Che~,o.t~­
,aaMok. --... ,.,-ghll:.,... CGIIhlfoi.,O. ~-a.~~ wrt:lrRq;s lflnt lht 
....... ~ill,awpq:fi!e_w._....~JOol:f'~IOai.--. ..... Oihu~ ~~1NI-W,o.s~ 

,..,..~'I"'N~ .................!nercb..S:pteplc--...J~ ~~1l!ile ~~p.;tU...,o-r~.~(GIIIIUU--pet:IOIUII~.~.~ ..J1*4'1$ ...~~1'0l.l~--..,.,...-.vetNt~~-~7 
~---~JIIIOC­
....._.._.~..,....of~...ailrallk9Kdlet..,.-,_..,..uciDIIMW-.. stfilfn.a.-.)DIII"~~prtep!ll'MOiilltd.,..._._.....e.tDhdp'l'f4&15itt9tlehlt~­
~~IIIDIOlid-.... Al!llt~.a-=toprowtdi:~'Mtlt-~co.k~­~,.., ......'lilllotDI',o.~d'IK~.-,.,. ...~01--.~SoeJid 

February 2004-Harvard University 
student Mark Zuckerberg launches 
Facebook.com 
I I


tool 
March 2005 -An Oklahoma University student is investigated by the Secret Service after he mentioned assassinating President George W. Bush in his user profile 

Itooi I 
May 2005-Two swimmers at Louisiana State University are booted from the team for being members of a Facebook group that disparaged the team's coaches 
-.10,. .. r 

Grad students engage academic freedom issue 
By KATHLEEN MCDONNELL News Writer 
University President Father John Jenkins addressed aca­demic freedom issues ranging from the timing and intent of his Jan. 23 and 24 speeches to hypothetical situations involving stem cell research and artistic expression in an open discus­sion with graduate students Monday. 
After giving a brief introduc-

October 2005 -Fischer University expels 
John Brown University, a Christian 
a student who publicly criticized a prominent 
college, is expelled for posting photos 
campus security officer on Facebook 
of him<elfd'"""' in d,.g
I I 

tool 
Officials at institutions nationwide use site to identify, punish students 
By KATIE PERRY Assistant News Editor 
Facebook.com, the online social network and cultural phenomenon availed by millions of col­lege students across America, is spreading to reach an even broader audience -nearly any­body with a ".edu" e-mail address. 
And that shift is beginning to have repercus­sions for students. 
Since February 2004, the popular Web site has garnered more than six million members, a majority of which log on at least once a day, a spokesman told the Chicago Sun Times in November. Each day, between 10,000 and 20,000 new members register on Facebook.com. 
January 2006-A gay student at 
November 2005 -Four Northern Kentucky 
February 2006-Syracuse University 
University students are fined $50 and 
places four students on academic
forced to attend alcohol abuse classes 
probation for creating a Facebook group 
after college officials discovered drinking 
centered on denigrating their professor
pictures published on Facebook 
Jenkins continues to answer questions 
tory speech, Jenkins fielded questions for nearly an hour in a forum arranged by the Graduate Stud.ent Union in DeBartolo 101. 
Graduate students have a unique and integral place in a university, Jenkins said, per­forming researching and teach­ing roles like faculty members, but subject to supervision like undergraduate students. 
He stressed their importance in contributing to the discussion on academic freedom and Catholic character at Notre Dame. 
see JENKINS/page 6 


Wedding bells toll as graduation approaches 
By KAREN LANGLEY Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame seniors Victoria Wittner and Dan DiMassa first discussed marriage while studying abroad in Innsbruck near the end of sophomore year. While Wittner and DiMassa -who began dating at the beginning of that year -knew they were right for one another, they decided not to take any definite steps towards marriage until gradu­ation drew near. 
And drew near it did. 
As the two drove to DiMassa's Cleveland home the first weekend of the fall semester, they approached a roadside spot wher:e they tra­ditionally stopped to kiss. DiMassa flicked on the car's hazard lights as he pulled over, and while such a stop was hardly unusual, Wittner knew something was going to happen. 
"I asked myself, 'Is he going to propose?"' Wittner said. "I said, 'No, Victoria, don't be stupid. That's not what's hap­pening."' 
Then DiMassa got down on one knee and asked Wittner to marry him. 
She said yes. 
There is no count of how many Notre Dame undergrad­uates are engaged, but enough couples make the commitment each year to keep stories of Grotto propos­als and "ring by spring" Basilica bookings alive. And while the vast majority of stu­dents wait until after college to decide on marriage, many engaged eouples can be char­acterized by the uncommon certainty that they are right for one another. 
see RINGS/page 4 
Graphics by Jeff Albert 

College completes self-study 
-By MEGAN O'NEIL Senior Staff Writer 
Two years of research and self-analysis will come to a head at Saint Mary's today as repre­sentatives of the Higher Learning Commission conclude a three-day campus visit as part of a reaccreditation process. 
Led by Vice President and Dean of Faculty Pat White and Director of the Center for Academic Innovation Pat Pierce, the College compiled a 134-page self-study report that examines the progress of the institution over the last ten years and its direction in the future. 
Pierce described the report, two years in the making, as a "really unique one ... very dif­ferent from accreditations in the past." 
In the past, the report has been more like an inventory of the College, Pierce said, and included data such as the num­ber of students enrolled and the number of volumes in the 
see STUDY/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Three phones and counting ... 
If' only my cell phone had nine 
lives ... 
This year. I learned that nothing in life comes nasy. All college students are faced with daily challenges and, as part of' the grow­ing up process, Katie Kohler need to deal with them without tlw help of their par-Wire Editor ents. Some things that senrn simple ean just drive you crazy. What spe­cil'ie simple thing I am rnferring to is the almighty cell phone. 
I have had the unfortunate experi­ence as to break/drop/lose/damage my cell phone multiple times this year. Was it my fault? Well, yes, sometimes it was. Dropping the cell phone down multiple flights of stairs was all nw. Some things, though, were out of my control. I mean who put that toilet there? 
Going against my parents' advice, I guess a belt clip would avoid all of the dropping and mishandling, but what fun is that? 
For me, it is hard enough to keep track of my cell phone, but trying to get a new one entirely in South Bend is a nightmare. It has taught me to appreciate the essence of the cell phone and protect it with my life so I don't have to go through that ordeal again. 
You would think getting a new phone would be easy, but both times I had to replace my poor phone· I ended up paying full price for a whole new one because it was too much of a hassle to go through the motions of liling a police report for losing it (yes, you actually have to do that if you have insurance). explaining it to my parents, or acti­vating a new one. And I even had insurance! What is insurance for if you have to buy a new phone every time'! 
I am not blaming any of my mis­fortune on Verizon -even though it would make my parents feel better -but just the overall process. Ugh. 
Spending the entire day at the mall trying to plead with Verizon to give me a new phone is really drain­ing. It n~ally is. 
II' you know what kind of phone I have, you would probably be shocked that al'ter all that work, I don't have the top-of-the-linn phonn. I am smarter than that. My new phone has been the cheapest. most durable and biggest piece of equip­ment in tlw store. 
Surn, it would be cool to have a nnw Hazor or a camera phone, but with my consistent history of bang­ing up my cell phorw, that makes no sensn. 
I am proud to say that I have had my newest e1dl phorw for two months-knock on wood -and I have not benn back to Verizon yet. Impressive, eh? 
Oh. it's the little things in life that bring us thn most satisf'aetion. 
Contact Katie Kohler at 
kkohleO 1 @sain tmarys. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of /.he author and not necessarily those of'11ze Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The ( )bscrvcr regards itself as a professional publica· tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake. please contact us at 631-4541 so we can 
correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, March 29, 2006 QUESTION OF THE DAY: ARE YOU WORRIED ABOUT WHO IS READING YOUR FACEBOOK PROFILE? 





Megan Staley  Joe Powers  Erin Scott  Stephanie Dosmann  Katie Murray  George Fisher  
sophomore McCandless  sophomore Carroll  sophomore Le Mans  sophomore Holy Cross  senior off-campus  junior Dillon  
"Terrified ­that's why I'm changing my name after this prints. ,  "No, I'm not too concerned because it's fairly difficult for someone not  "No, because ifI was, I wouldn't be on it."  "No, since I'm not on Facebook."  "No, I'm more worried about the e-mails I get saying my friends have  "No, how else would I meet girls? Chatting online to 'hot chicks' all day  




affiliated with a college to get a profile." 


LAURIE HUNTfThe Observer 
Kat Londergan, right, leads children and their parents in interactive story-telling Tuesday In the Notre Dame bookstore. The event was called "Children's Storytlme: Twenty-one Elephants and Still Standing." 
OFFBEAT 
Man wards off alligator with broom 
NORTH FORT MYERS, Fla. -An 82-year-old Lee County man says he tried to get an alligator out of his garage with a broom. John Turney says he also used the blue straw broom to kept the 4­foot reptile from biting him. 
The gator later went under Turney's ear that was parked in the driveway and Turney sprayed it with a garden hose. The alligator finally didn't leave until three other people prodded it, lhrdng the reptile to go back lo a lake. It had apparently spent the night in Turney's garage in North Fort Myers. 
Just a few days ago, anoth­er alligator wa.•:; found at the front door of a Bonita Springs horne. Trappers 1wentually captured it from a nearby lake. No one was injured. Wildlife officials say warm weather makes the reptiles more active, espe­cially male alligators looking for new territories and potential mates. 
Boy trapped in toy claw machine 
AUSTIN, Minn.-More than a few people are trying to figure out how it hap­pened -how did a three­year-old boy get trapped inside an arcade game? 
little Devon can laugh at it now, but yesterday it wasn't much of a joke. The toddler crawled inside a toy claw machine at a pizza party in Minnesota. 
So how he'd get in there? Even Devon's wise olper brother isn't sure. 
''I'm like, 'How could he fit in there?"' said Devon's older brother, Tyson. 
"It's so tiny! I was like, 'Is he getting oxygen?"' 
Devon played with toys until firelighters got him out. I Ie's fine. He even got to keep a toy as a souvenir. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

posted just doesn't pictures. , cover it." 
IN BRIEF 
Internationally acdaimed col­lage and montage artist Winston Smith will be the visit­ing artist in the Saint Mary's Art Department Wednesday through Friday. He will bn giving a public presentation of his works at 7 
p.m. tonight in room 232 of the Moreau Center for the Arts. 
O'Neill Hall will host the "O'Neill Spotlight" -a faceolT with McGlinn -Thursday at 8 
p.m. The event will feature singnrs, comedians and dancers from O'Neill as well as karaoke and free food. 
Saint Mary's seniors Emily Fannon, Sinnamon Wolfe, Amanda Caddy and Amber Painter will host a senior com­prehensive art gallery opening Friday from 5 p.m. to 7 in the Moreau Art Galleries in the Moreau Centnr for the Arts. Thp event is free and the public is welcome to attend. 
Famed Notre Uame head foot­ball coach Lou Holtz will give a lecture on "Catholicism and Competition" Friday from 7 
p.m. to 8:30 in the Stepan Center. The event is sponsored by Student Government as part of the Catholic Think Tank of America Lecture Series. Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students must present stu­dent-ID at the door for admit­tance. 
The 2006 Notre Dame student peace conference, "Voices of Today, Changes for Tomorrow," will be held Friday and Saturday in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor-. mation about an event lo obsnews@nd. edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

48 32 

HIGH LOW 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0::: 

LLI :::J: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
<
(.) 


65 54 

60 42 

0 
HIGH 56 HIGH 50

...I 
LOW 40 LOW 35 

Wednesday, March 29, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


CLAP anticipates response to report 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Editor 
After presenting a report on the living wage to University officials on March 8, members of the Campus Labor Action Project (CLAP) will get to hear the admin­istration's response in a meeting scheduled for Friday -appropri­ately, the end of Notre Dame's Week of Action. 
CLAP lead organizer Kamaria Porter said the meeting, which indudes representatives from stu­dent government as well as ClAP members. is the first oflicial feed­back thfl group will receive from administrators since distributing the report asking for the institu­tion of living wage at Notre Dame. 
Porter said Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves, Associate Vice President for !Iuman Hesources Bob McQuade, Executive Assistant to the President Frances Shavers and possibly University President Father John Jenkins were expect­ed to attend the meeting. 
A'i defined by the report, a living wage is "the hourly rate of income that a worker in a specific area must make in a 40-hour work­week to support a family of four." 
Porter said CI.AP hopes it comes out of the semester -if not Friday's meeting -with the cre­ation of a joint task force made up of students, campus workers, administrators and potentially alumni. 
"[The task force] could bring together the scholarly minds in theology and economics, the administrators who deal with budgeting, the students who gen­uinely care and have been researching this for quite awhile, the workers who are affected by this and who do not currently have a voice and the alumni who are invested in what happens at this University," Porter said. 
Harvard University instated a similar joint task force to support their campus living wage move­ment, on which Porter said ClAP modeled their idea. Notre Dame's task force would work to fmding a way to implement the living wage while still maintaining an "effec­tive and efficient university," Porter said. 
Porter said she doesn't know what will happen at Friday's meeting but said CLAP will remain optimistic and open-mind­ed. 
"CLAP has done a lot of talking up to this point, so now 'we're ready to listen," she said. 
As part of the Week of Action, today is also ClAP Day. The group will work to raise awareness of its cause and encourage students to sign a living wage petition, Porter said. She said the petition current­ly has approximately 600 signa­tures. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
Students aid social service agency 
Notre Dame students win Indiana Careers Consortium competition 
Special to the Observer 
Four teams of students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's College, Goshen College and Indiana University South Bend weren't told much about issues facing the Marshall County Neighborhood Center in Plymouth, Ind. -only that it was having difficulties meeting the needs of the community's changing demo­graphics. 
With that limited informa­tion, and in the spirit of the first case competition hosted by the Indiana Careers Consortium earlier this semester at Saint Mary's, their task was to fill in the missing pieces through research and then offer solu­tions. 
One of the oldest social service agencies in Marshall County, the Neighborhood Center, a United Way agency, was founded 23 years ago and currently r-uns a food pantry; provides clothing, fur­niture, appliances, household goods and toys; and offers life skills, budget counseling and energy assistance. 
While most of these services have always been offered there, a recent restructuring of the center's board of direc­tors resulted in a new goal. Rather than simply handing out charity, the center now strives to foster independence among its beneficiaries. 
"Because of our changes, we needed help creating a new public image and revis­ing our internal structure and fundraising efforts," said Jerry Nikitas, the center's director. 
That's where the students came in. But, under the guidelines of the competition, . they weren't told exactly what was needed unless they asked the right questions. 
"The lack of 'The lack of "They were so information information well prepared provided to us and confident in
provided to us
actually pre­their recommen­
sented our actually presented dations that the biggest chal-our biggest judges seemed to lenge," said view them less as
challenge. '' 
Notre Dame students in a senior Trey com petition, and Williams from Trey Williams more as experts Matthews, N.C. Notre Dame senior in how to make a 
nity. 
Their efforts paid off. Presenting a variety of ideas for fundraising, community outreach and volunteer efforts, the Notre Dame team won the competition and the admiration of their advisor, Thomas Harvey, director of the Master of Nonprofit Administration Program in Notre Dame's Mendoza 
College of 
Business. 

"We were told very little about the true nature of the center's problems. The competition required a lot of investigation before we could begin." 
After a 15-minute question­and-answer session with Nikitas, Williams and his teammates, Matthew Mitchell, Rebecca Spohrer and Danielle Stealy, all sen­iors at Notre Dame, went to work. They dedicated the bulk of their free time during the first week of the semester to learning all they could about non-profits and brain­storming about the center and its surrounding commu­
community center run more effi­ciently," Harvey said. 
Their ideas weren't earth­shattering, according to Williams, just well represent­ed. 
"We gave a few simple solu­tions that were applicable to problems the center likely will face in the future," he said. "I guess what impressed the judges was the way in which we presented our rec­ommended changes, which included strategic partner­ships with other organiza­tions in the community to help expand their budget and services." 

Forget everything you learned at Notre Dame! It's who you know. 
Robert Putnam 
Professor of Public Policy Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University 
Sunday, April 2 at 4:00pm Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
Robert Putnam's book, Bowling Alone, seems to have struck a chord with many concerned with the decline of civic engagement in the United States over the last thirty years. 
A question and answer session wiII follow Professor Putnam's presentation. 


business.nd.edu/socialcapital 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
MENDOZA COLLEGE OF BUSINESS THE KELLOGG INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES THE NANOVIC INSTlTUTE l'OR EUROPEAN STUDIES THE KROC INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE STUDIES 

r---------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 29, 2006 
interviews with students. faculty, agreements at the College and out?" White said. being done outside your divi­staff. alumnae and members of said all contributors were During their three days on sion," Pierce said. 



Study 
the Board of Trustees -"all encouraged to be completely campus, the three Higher White, who participated in the continued from page 1 sorts of constituents on campus honest in their responses in Learning Commission represen­1996 accreditation, said one 
and ofT campus," Pierce said. order to give the accreditors an tatives met with administrators, major area of improvement he library. This time, however, the Drafts were made available to accurate perspective of the faculty, stafl', students, alumnae saw at Saint Mary's was long­Ilighnr Learning Commission, an faculty and staff last spring for school. and community members in term planning. institutional accrediting agency, feedback, Pierce "They are going order to assess the effectiveness "In 1995 when we did our rnquired Saint Mary's to conduct said, and certain to do that better if of the College in carrying out its report we were sort of looking a self-analysis based on live cri­themes in the "It is [more work] everyone con­Mission as an institution of high really closely at assessment, and tl~ria -missions and integrity, report caused dis­but I think it makes tributed their own education. I think this time we were trying preparing for the future, student sent. understanding of The final meeting will take to look more at the issue of plan­
the self-study and
learning and effective teaehing, Diversity at what is going on," place today with College ning, how are we getting better acquisition, discovery and appli­Saint Mary's was self-study report Pierce said. President Carol Ann Mooney. at planning at Saint Mary's.... cation and engagement and one such point of more valuable. '' The various The visitors will give a general It's also something I think we service. contention. drafts were edited indication of how successfully are doing better over the last "It's a much better Lmethodl Individuals had and assembled over the Coll!lge met the require­three years than we have done
Pat Pierce 
than the other approach. This is varying perspec­the summer by a ments for accreditation, Pierce since I have been here," White a-real improvement," Pierce tives on where director writing team made said. An official report will be said. said. "It is (more work] but I the College stands Center for Academic up of White, Pierce issued in the following weeks. Also included in the self-study think it makes the self-study and on the issue, and art professor In completing the self-study, were areas that the College
Innovation 
self-study report more valu­Pierce said, and Laurel Thomas. Pierce said he and his colleagues identified as needing improve­able." where and how They continued to were impressed by how thor­ment. These five key areas were 
The more in-depth nature of far it should progress in the fme-tune the document through­oughly the Saint Mary's Mission originally highlighted by Mooney the study required White and future. out the fall, Pierce said. was being lived out in the vari­in her August 2005 speech at Pierce to involve a broader spec­"I think there are differing "I guess the hard thing is that ous departments of the College. the College Forum and include trum of the College community perspectives between faculty, it's a long process and it needs "I think that is something folks general education, diversity, the in the project. Stafl' and faculty faculty and students, between to be a long process and then we found satisfying, and I think identity initiative, library members were selected to members of the Board," Pierce gather tons and tons of informa­beyond that not only did we see resources and athletics. research and prepare difl'erent said. tion and then it becomes a huge the Mission reflected across the sections of the self-study report, Pierce said there was no effort writing problem ... what do you institution, [but also] we gained Contact Megan O'Neil at Pierce said. They conducted to hide the existence of dis-put in and what do you leave a respect for the work that is onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
Rings 
continued from page 1 
Seniors Chelsea Horgan and Ryan O'Larey knew from the beginning that they would one day marry. They met at a Keenan Hall dorm party in the spring of their sophomore year and got engaged the following fall when O'Larey proposed on the Dumbo ride in Disney World. 
A week into their relation­ship, O'Larey said, "So this is what it feeJs·like to fall in love." 
Two years later, that conclu­sion has only been reinforced. 
"From that point on, it was pretty much settled in both of our minds that we would even­
.-----------------------------~----~------------~~~~~~= 
-


FROM THE 170s 
UNITS 
AVAILABLE FOR 
574-273-2000 
FALL 
-WALK TO CAMPUS -2-3 STORY FLOORPLANS -2 CAR ATTACHED GARAGES -2.5+ BATHROOMS -2-4 BEDROOMS 
MODEL OPEN WED-FRI 12-6PM SAT-SUN 12-SPM 
VISIT OUR 
....,.......
... 

FURNISHED MODEL OR DUBLI NVILLAGE.COM
~ 
~ 

435 ABBEY ST.
: 
J ; 
.!@ 

SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 
".._ 

SSM ITH@COOREMAN.COM 


tually get married," he said. "When we knew, we knew. I would have felt completely comfortable asking Chelsea to marry me after the first week of our relationship." 
Though she acknowledged some people might think jun­iors young to give or receive proposals of marriage, Horgan echoed O'Larey's certainty in their decision to get engaged. 
"We never really gave a thought to postponing the inevitable, so we were willing to get engaged really early," she said. "It was something we have always been serious about, and we're more and more excited to get married." 
Horgan and O'Larey will marry in July. Seniors Gretchen Ryan and .lonny Struemph can't remem­
her exactly when they first talked about marriage, but like Horgan and O'Leary, they quickly grew sure they wanted to spend their lives together. 
"It was probably earlier than most people would expect," Struemph said. "When we got into a relationship, it felt right from the start." 
Junior Daralee Thomas said she first spoke of marriage after three or four months of dating her fiancee, Indiana University junior Zach Hughes. Since they began dating in col­lege, their relationship devel­oped over long phone conver­sations -a condition that she said prompted them to get to know each other much deeper than if they had been physical­ly together. 
"You hear older people say, 'Sometimes you just know,' and for us, that's what it was," she said. "It didn't take a lot of thinking. It didn't take lot of talking. I just knew. Neither of us could believe it happened that way for us." 

Young people often see engagement as a time of tran­sition into a truly adult world, and engaged students now have to balance a mature com­mitment with their time left in 
"We never really 
college. "When something Even their gave a thought to as important as friends become your future
postponing the 
caught in the bal­spouse walks into
inevitable, so we
ance of youth and your life, there maturity. Wittner were willing to get just isn't as much and DiMassa time for other
engaged really 
returned from people."
early."
their Cleveland lie emphasized, trip to their however, that he friends' cham­Chelsea Horgan truly enjoys see­pagne toast -ing his old
senior
held with Solo 
cups in a dorm 
room. 
Like other engaged students, 
Ryan and Struemph spend 
most of their social time 
together, although they are 
often together with other 
friends. 
"We've pretty much been inseparable since freshman year," Ryan said. "I live in a quad, and my roommates joke that Jonny is our fifth room­mate." 
Since they continue to spend time with close friends, neither Ryan nor Struemph considers their serious relationship and subsequent engagement social­ly isolating. 
"All our friends have been really accepting of each other as friends," Struemph said. "It hasn't been a social hardship." 
Since being engaged, howev­er, the two have sometimes encountered new expectations of their social lives from friends. 
"I remember one of our friends making a comment when we were going out to a club that 'You guys are engaged, you don't do that any­more,'" Ryan said. "But we still like to have fun." 
DiMassa described himself and Wittner as "somewhat reserved" and said their inter­ests more frequently lead to nights at the movies or a book­store than to the bars or clubs -but Wittner added that these preferences have little to do with their engagement. 
"Some of our friends view our social lives as geriatric," 
friends. 

Thomas' family and many of her friends are thrilled by her engagement, but she said many acquain­tances did not expect her to marry while still in college. ller wedding is scheduled for the .July before her senior year. 
"A lot of people reacted with surprise,'' she said "One friend brought up the dif'ficulties, out of concern." 
Thomas said her parents have been extremely support­ive of her decision, and she plans to rely on her parents as well as her husband for sup­port as they spend their first year of married life apart while completing their degrees. 
While Hyan is more than excited about marrying Struemph, she said she would not have predicted that she would marry immediately after college. 
"This was not how I pictured my life in high school," she said. 
Struemph agreed. 

"Now you're used to hearing of people being in their upper twenties when they get mar­ried, not their younger twen­ties," he said. 
But love can defy societal norms, O'Larey said. 
"When I called my dad to let him know that I planned to ask Chelsea to marry me, he agreed that love can just sneak up on you," he said. "And once you know what it is, you don't ever want to let it go." 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 

DiMassa said. "Some of our interests don't fit the college stereotype." 
But since his relationship with Horgan began, O'Larey said maintaining close relation­ships with other friends has been difficult. 
"Being with someone [who] you don't get sick of and want to spend all your time with can definitely cause issues with your social life," O'Larey said. 






ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, March 29, 2006-CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Ex-Liberian warlord disappears 
Aj3UJA, Nigeria -Former Uberian warlord Charles Taylor slipped away just after Nigeria reluctantly agreed to transfer him to a war crimes tribunal, and the White House suggest­ed Tuesday that President Bush may cancel a meeting with Nigeria's leader. 
The Nigerian government said Taylor van­ished Monday night from his villa in the south­ern eity of Calabar, where he had lived in exile since being forced from power under a 2003 peacn deal that ended Liberia's civil war. 
The announcement came three days after President Olusegun Obasanjo -under pres­sure from Washington and others -agreed to surn~nder Taylor to a U.N.-backed tribunal. He would be the first African leader to face trial for crimes against humanity. 
One million protest French labor law 
PAHIS -More than one million people poured into the streets across France and strik­ers disrupted air, rail and bus travel Tuesday ­even shutting pown the Eiffel Tower -in the largest nationwide protest over a youth labor law. 
Scattered violence erupted in Paris, and riot police used water cannons and tear gas to dis­perse several thousand youths who pelted them with stones and bottles after an otherwise peaceful march. 
Police made 787 arrests around the country -488 of them in Paris, National Police Chief Michel Gaudin told The Associated Press. Injuries in the capital were tallied at 46 demon­strators and nine police oflicers. 
lntf~rior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy later invited some 200 police oflicers, some still wearing their protective gear, to the Interior Ministry for wine and snacks. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Moussaoui offers self-testimony 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. -Al-Qaida conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui offered last month to testify for prosecutors against himself at his death-penalty trial and told agents that he did not want to die in prison, according to last-minute testimony Tuesday. 
The bizarre testimony capped a trial that has seen more than its share of the unusual over three tumultuous weeks. Introduced as part of a brief government rebuttal case, this testimony may be the firmest evidence the 37 -year-old Frenchman of Moroccan descent hopes for martyrdom through execution and could provide fodder for the closing argu­ments of both prosecutors and Moussaoui's court-appointed defense attorneys. 

War-crimes trials trouble Court 
WASHINGTON -Supreme Court justices appeared troubled Tuesday by President Bush's plans to hold war-crimes trials for foreigners held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. 
And several seemed outraged by the gov­ernment's claim that a new law had stripped the high court of authority to hear a case brought by Salim Ahmed Hamdan, a Yemeni who once worked as a driver for Osama bin Laden. 
Hamdan has spent nearly four years in the 
U.S. prison at Guantanamo, and the Supreme Court has been asked to decide if he can be put on trial with fewer legal protections before a type of military tribunal last used in the World War II-era. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Indiana ups security for Final Four 
INDIANAPOLIS -Tens of thousands of Final Four visitors coming to the city this weekend can expect increased security along with I Ioosier hospitality. 
"We have to inconvenience people a little more than we wish we did," said Gov. Mitch Daniels. "But I think we'll walk the balance between safety and fun as well as it can be." 
Indianapolis hasn't hosted a Men's Final Four since 2000 -a year before the 2001 terrorist atta-cks heightened security for many venues. 
ISRAEL 


Olmert declares party's victory 
Acting Prime Minister vows to resolve border issues, lead negotiations 
Associated Press JERUSALEM -Acting Prime Minister Ehud Olmert declared victory for his centrist Kadima party in Israel's elections Tuesday, vowing to act on his own if necessary to draw Israel's final borders and "painfully" uproot Jewish settlers if negotia­tions with the Palestinians are notpossible. Standing below a massive portrait of his mentor Ariel Sharon, Qlmert addressed chanting Kadima members after exit polls and media reports of early results pre­dicted the party would have enough seats in par­liament to form a ruling coalition. Building on the vision of Sharon. who formed the party shortly before suc­cumbing to a devastating stroke that left him in a coma, Olmert claimed a mandate to withdraw from much of the West Bank and set Israel's borders, which he has said he will do by 2010. The turnout was the low­est in Israel's history, and the results showed voters turning away from conven­tional political parties to an assortment of third parties with agendas ranging from pensioner rights to the 

legalization of marijuana. The aftermath will likely be a period of difficult negoti­we will move to set the group. Incoming not wait indefinitely for a 
ations between Olmert and fmal borders of the state of Palestinian Prime Minister peace deal and would move potential coalition part­Israel, a Jewish state with Ismail Haniyeh told AI­unilaterally after a reason­ners. a Jewish majority," Olmert Jazeera television that he able period of time. 
"Today, Israeli democra­said. "We will try to opposed Olmert's plan. Turning to the cy has spoken its piece, in achieve this in an agree­"Such a plan definitely Palestinians, Olmert said: a loud and clear voice," ment with the won't be accepted by the "We are prepared to com­Olmert declared. "Israel Palestinians." Palestinian people or the promise, give up parts of wants Kadima," which Olmert has said he would Palestinian government," our beloved land of Israel, means forward in Hebrew. govern only with parties he said. remove, painfully, Jews 
Olmert said he was ready that accept his program, Allies of Palestinian who live there, to allow you for new peace talks and and projections showed a President Mahmoud Abbas, the conditions to achieve was prepared to make center-left coalition captur­a moderate from the Fatah your hopes and to live in a painful compromises such ing 61 to 65 seats in the Party, called for immedi­state in peace and quiet." as uprooting some Jewish 120-member parliament. ately renewing talks on the "The time has come for settlements in the West The hawkish parties fell far internationally backed the Palestinians ... to relate Bank and allowing short of their plan to win "road map" peace plan to the existence of the state Palestinians to have a enough seats to block under the auspices of the of Israel, to accept only state. But he demanded Olmert's program. Palestine Liberation part of their dream, to stop that the Palestinians be As Israel held its election, Organization, which he terror, to accept democracy willing to compromise in the Palestinian parliament heads. and accept compromise return. approved a new Cabinet Olmert has said he sup­and peace with us," he 
"In the coming period, led by the Hamas militant ports the road map but will said. 


Bush names Bolten new chief of staff 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Struggling to revive his troubled presidency, President Bush replaced longtime chief of staff Andy Card with budget director Joshua Bolten on Tuesday and gave Bolten authority to make further changes in a White House staff that even Republicans have complained is tired, insular and lack­ing fresh ideas. 
Appearing with Bush in the Oval Office, Bolten gave no hint about what, if any, shake-up he might order. But White House officials said no one should doubt his ability to replace Bush aides. "He'll have all the authority he needs ... to make the decisions that he feels best, working with the president," White House spokesman Scott McClellan said. 
Like Card, Bolten, 51, is a Washington insider whose ties reach back to Bush's 2000 campaign for the White House. Democrats -as well as some Republicans -grum­bled that the new White House boss looked a lot like the old one. 
Bush said of Bolten, "l-Ie's a man of candor and humor and directness, who's comfortable with responsibility and knows how to lead. No person is better prepared for this important position." 
Before being named budget direc­tor in 2003, Bolten was Card's deputy chief of staff for policy, a colleague of such senior aides as top political adviser Karl Rove and White House counselor Dan Bartlett. 
Alarmed by Bush's falling approval ratings and White House mistakes ­from the bungled Hurricane Katrina reaction to the ill-fated deal to allow an Arab company to manage U.S. ports -Republicans have been urg­ing the president to bring in new advisers with fresh energy. The GOP's concerns have been height­ened by anxiety over midterm con­gressional elections in November. Card, as chief of staff, became a tar­get for blame. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 29, 2006 
freedom and Catholic character While he invited contribution members of the Notre Dame we better not do what we think now, Jenkins said he began to from the Notre Dame communi­community given their role as is right because we'll lose
Jenkins 
discuss "The Vagina ty, Jenkins reaffirmed his posi­University donors, and whether money. But this is true of all uni-
continued from page 1 
Jenkins said he agreed with the prepared statement sent to him by graduate students and their point that the prineiples he artic­ulated in his addresses were not completely dear. The addresses were intended to start the dis­cussion, not deliver a final deci­sion, he said. 
"My initial talk was meant to affirm both academic freedom and Catholic character," Jenkins said. "Obviously they have to be a part of any [Catholic] universi­ty. My job is to defend both as vigorously as I can." 
When asked why he decided to confront the issue of academic Monologues" as questions arose. tion that his ultimate decision on He said he realized certain controver­more input was sial issues -like
"My initial talk 

needed. the place of "The "I just felt that as was meant to Vagina I started my presi­Monologues" on
affirm both 

dency it was campus -would
academic freedom 

important to not be made by address it in a way and Catholic consensus. A high­that would charac­er level of com­
character. " 

terize future dis­mon l).nderstand­cussions," Jenkins ing will be said. "One could achieved through
Father John Jenkins have carried on the University President discussion, he discussions behind said, but on such a the scenes, but I divided issue, no wanted to say 'These are my answer will please everyone. thoughts, let's have your One student questioned thoughts.' I think that is the whether alumni have more voice character of a university." in the discussion than other this will cause Jenkins to come to a 
more conservative "/ think it is wrong conclusion than he to say we better otherwise might 
not do what we
have. 
Jenkins restated think is right the importance of becuase we'll lose all contributors to 
money.
the debate and denied that any group has a particu­Father John Jenkins larly strong influ­University President ence based on its financial power. 
versities. They rely on people outside the uni­versity to support what they're doing. What we do is, to a large extent, based on the fact that peo­ple support us, financially and otherwise." 
Jenkins repeat­ed he has not made a final 

We believe everyone's more successful in a flexible environment. 
We want you to succeed. That's why we've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. At Ernst & Young we're offering an opportunity to learn from some of the best talent in the industry. So visit us on campus, or on the Web at ey.comjusjcareers. Whatever's best for you. We're flexible. 

"You cannot say to the alumni, decision on the status of next 'We'll do exactly what you want,' year's production of "The Vagina but you can't say that to the stu­Monologues." He did, however, dents or faculty either," Jenkins explain how he feels repetition said. "I think it is wrong to say can imply endorsement. 
"If the political science depart­
ment invited President Bush to 
speak five years in a row and did 
not invite an equally prominent 
Democrat, wouldn't everyone 
say that the political science 
department favors 
Republicans?" Jenkins said. "No 
sharp lines can be drawn here, 
but we need to be conscious of 
that and use discretion in mak­
ing judgments." 
Graduate students also dis­
cussed a number of situations 
that they believed could poten­
tially pose problems if academic 
freedom is restricted at Notre 
Dame. 
Jenkins said artistic freedom 
should not be limited, saying 
while art is sometimes provoca­
tive, that is acceptable for a uni­
versity. 
While he said it would be 
appropriate to cover an obscene 
artwork if children were passing 
through the gallery, he also con­
firmed the artist's right to create 
the work and display it within 
the bounds of the University. 
Another student questioned whether a chemical engineering dissertation would be allowed if bone cell tissue from an aborted fetus was used. 
Jenkins said these types of sit­uations could be problematic. 
"I don't think we would do that if there were some fundamental values that institutionally if we don't affirm, we should cease calling ourselves Catholic," Jenkins said. "I don't know that particular case, but I do feel that there is a conflict, because Catholic view says that that's a human being, and you shouldn't destroy humans for research purposes." 
Jenkins could not stay to answer every question but thanked students for their inter­est and input. 
He also urged members of the Notre Dame community to con­tinue to share their views with him. 
"As [Irish author] James Joyce said about Catholics, 'Here comes everyone.' We want a diversity of views,'' Jenkins said. "I think we're a better university with wider views, with a more vibrant face. 
"If the Catholic institutional identity is going to be main­tained, someone once told me, it's going to be maintained at Notre Dame." 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 
,~~'Write for 




' N~;,;, 

Call 1-5323 

Tl..-1 E0 HSERVER 





USINESS
Wednesday, March 29, 2006 
page 7 

Dow 
11,154.54 -95.57

jones 
up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,178 163 2,084 2,181,098,490 

AME.X .A 
NASDAQ NYSE S&P 500 -8.38. NIKK£1(Tokyo) .· ''T6~646~'[4~~L,:·.··i!ii:•1ti•••:•:.·.·.· 

FTSE. IOO(London) 5,935.70 -36.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
LEVEL 3 COMM INC (LVLT) +15.88 +0.71 5.18 
JDS UNIPHASE CP ODSU) +1.48 +0.06 4.11 
INTEL CP (INTC) -0.86 -0.17 19.58 
SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI) -1.40 -0.07 4.94 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) -0.41 +0.17 41.14 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE + 1.64 +0.77 47.78 13-WEEK BILL +0.22 -0.10 45.27 30-YEAR BOND + 1.40 +0.66 47.93 5-YEAR NOTE +1.81 +0.85 47.73 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +1.91  66.07  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -0.40  572.20  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -1.28  86.40  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  117.9600  
EURO  0.8334  
POUND  0.5737  
CANADIAN$  1.1699  


IN BRIEF 
Fed resumes rate-raising campaign 
WASiliNGTON-The Federal Reserve's new boss, Ben Bernanke, has the same concern as the old boss -that inllation could flare up. So interest rates are likely to move higher. 
Bernanke, at his first meeting as Fed chair­man. boosted borrowing costs to a live-year high and hinted that an additional interest rate increase could be in store. In doing so, Bernanke stuck to the script written by his predecessor, Alan Greenspan, who had run the central bank for 18 1/2 years. 
"The more things change, the more they n~main the same," observed economist Joel NaroiT. president of Narofl' Economic Advisors. 
Wrapping up a two-day meeting Tuesday, Bernanke and his Fed colleagues struck a mostly positive tone, saying the economy "n~bounded strongly" in the January-to-March quarter from an end-of-year lull. But Fed poli­cymakers raised concerns about the potential for inflation to take off. 

Consumer confidence rises in March 
NEW YOHK -Americans' optimism in the economy rebounded in March, sending a widely followed barometer of consumer sentiment to a near four-year high, a private research group said Tuesday. 
The Conference Board said that its consumer index climbed 4.5 points to 107.2, the highest level since May 2002, when the reading was 
11 0.3. Analysts had expected a reading of 102. 
The latest measure was up from a revised I 02.7 in February, which was down 4.1 points from January and broke a three-month rebound from last year's Gulf hurricanes. 
'The improvement in consumers' assessment of present-day conditions is yet another sign that thn economy gained steam in early 2006," Lynn Franco. director of The Conference Board Consumer Research Center, said in a statement. "Consumer expectations, while improved, remain subdued and still suggest a cooling in activity in the latter half of this year." 
The upbP.at report on consumer confidence is an encouraging sign for retailers, whose sales of spring fashions have been uneven amid cool tem­peratures. Economists closely track consumer confidence because consumer spending accounts for two thirds of all U.S. economic activity. 



Prosecution rests in Enron trial 
Defense teams to begin questioning; company's former chiefs Lay, Skilling to testify 
Associated Press 

IIOUSTON -Federal prosecutors rested their fraud and conspiracy case Tuesday against former Enron Corp. chiefs Kenneth Lay and Jeffrey Skilling and dropped four counts against them to streamline an already complicated case. 
The defendants appeared undaunted after almost two dozen witnesses bolstP.red the government's claim that they committed crimes at the energy trading compa­ny before it sought bank­ruptcy protection in December 2001. 
"We're looking forward to getting on the stand and getting our case out there -the positive case," Lay told reporters outside the federal courthouse in Houston. 
Their defense teams will begin presenting their case in the premier trial to emerge from Enron's rub­ble on Monday, but other witnesses are likely to be overshadowed by the main event, when Lay and Skilling take the stand. 
"We are anxious to get our story told," said lead Skilling lawyer Daniel Petrocelli, his client at his side. 
Prosecutors declined comment, as is customary during a high-profile trial. leaving six in his case. ments. he wouldn't use the money 
Lay and Skilling will enter Lake denied routine The count against Lay to carry or buy Enron stock the defense phase a little requests from the defense that was dropped grew on margin. That case will lighter because U.S. District for acquittal. from allegations the com­be tried without a jury Judge Sim Lake approved a The dropped counts pany founder lied to ana­before Lake, beginning government request to drop against Skilling stemmed lysts about Enron's finances while jurors in the current several charges against from allegations the former during a conference call. Enron trial begin what are them for which it had pre­chief executive signed a Lay also faces a separate expected to be lengthy sented no evidence. Two fraudulent quarterly report case related to his personal deliberations. counts of securities fraud submitted to the Securities banking. In one count of Prosecutors say Lay and and one count of lying to and Exchange Commission; bank fraud and three Skilling repeatedly lied auditors pending against lied about Enron's health counts of lying to banks, about the energy compa­Skilling were dropped, during a first-quarter earn­prosecutors allege he ny's financial health when leaving 28 criminal counts ings conference call; and obtained $75 million in they allegedly knew against him; and a single signed a statement to audi­loans from three banks and accounting maneuvers count of securities fraud tors that vouched for then reneged on an agree­propped up an image of against Lay was dropped, fudged financial state-ment with the lenders that success. 

GM lays off hundreds of employees 
.. 
GM spokesman Robert Herta said the he was surprised GM didn't lay off more 
Associated Press 

company hasn't released a figure indi­workers Tuesday. 
cating how much it will save from the "It's eritical for GM to get through the 
DETROIT -General Motors Corp. salaried layoffs. reductions as quickly as possible. This laid off several hundred white-collar GM shares fell 18 cents, to close at has been a distraetion to tJ:!e employp,es workers Tuesday as part of a plan to $22.75 on the New York Stock since November," Moore said. "The bring its ailing North American opP.ra­Exchange after rising as high as $23.25 longer this gets. dragged out, the greater tions back to profitability. earlier in the day. the chance there is that the most valued 
It was the first round of salaried cuts Detroit-based GM announced a employees will walk out the door on this year for the world's largest restructuring plan in November in the their own and GM will have difficulties automaker which is struggling with face of molinting losses. Under the plan, attracting new employees." sluggish sales, shrinking U.S. market GM wants to cut 30,000 U.S. hourly Herta said GM's timeline for layoffs is share and high health and pension costs workers and close 12 faeilities by 2008. based on the requirements to run the that put it at a competitive disadvantage GM lost $10.6 billion in 2005, largely business. against Asian rivals. because of increased competition and The size of GM's salaried work forcn is 
GM didn't give an exact figure but rising costs in North America. similar to one of its key compPtitors, said fewer than 500 jobs were cut The layoffs are GM's second major Ford Motor Co., which has around Tuesday at 30 locations across the jobs-related announcement in a week. 35,000 salaried employees. But Ford is United States, including factories and GM said last Wednesday that it would in the midst of its own restructuring, engineering centers. A cut of just less offer buyouts of between $35,000 and and Moore said GM ean't get compla­than 500 jobs would represent about $140,000 to its 113,000 U.S. hourly cent. 
1.3 percent of GM's U.S. salaried work workers. GM Salaried workers aren't "They have to cut in every area possi­force of 36,000. eligible for those buyouts. ble," Moore said. "The number of 
GM has said it plans to cut 7 percent Chuck Moore, a director at the Detroit employees they have right now is still of its salaried work force this year, or restructuring management firm substantially higher than what their 2,500 jobs, so more cuts are on the way. Conway, MacKenzie and Dunleavy, said current market share will support." 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 29, 2006 
Face book 
continued from page 1 
plinary situations, but cautioned that students must be prudent with what they r1wnal on tlwir profiles. 
"I just don't think tiH~m·s mueh of' an expectation of' privacy on Facebook and lstudenL-;1 arc mis­guidnd if' tlwy expm:t privaey on a puhlk nwdium ... that would be a misunderstanding," Kirk said. 
l>in~ctor of' Hesidnnce Lif'e and I lousing .lnfl'rey Shoup would not spedf'y how many in his offiw havP 

Facnhook idPnti­"/ have every right who used tins, hut said "at to be on Facebook Facebook to track least one of' us" down and punish
as much as anyone

has a Facebook studnnts who 
account. else. That's some­stormed the foot­"I'd say 1wery thing I'm entitled ball finld af'tnr Penn couple of weeks State's win over
to do like any other 

someone is <u:<:ess­Ohio State last fall, ing Facebook person with a .edu Etheridge said. 
If'rom tho Ollkn of address." "It was more Besidenen l.ife and FYI," she said. I lousing. I" "I Poorman] sends
Linda Zoeller

So what exactly us things periodi­
chair

do Univnrsity cally." administrators do Saint Mary's nursing Etheridge said on· Facebook'! tho information
department 
'Til give you an example," Shoup said. "Say somn studnnt c:omns in and says Tvo n1wer benn under­age in a bar.' and I said 'So if' I pull you up on Facebook, would I sen any pieturcs of' you in a bar'!' And thny said 'sun~,' and I might pull them up, and if they have a pieture of' thmnsnlvns in a bar, I think that would be a problom." 
Kirk and Shoup both stressnd that administrators arc not using Facebook as a tool to uneovnr potontial DuLac violations. BnsLifn has not taken punitive measures basnd on the content of a studm1t's profile, Shoup said. 
''I'm not going to sit hero all ovnning to sno if pnoplo aro vio­lating poliey, but if a student has bonn aeeused already, I might tako a look and cheek out Face book," Shoup said. 

But administrators and rectors alikn are aware of Facebook and -in light of national news sto­ries about the dangers of the third party. site -becoming increasingly skeptical of it. 
Farley rector Sister Carrine Etheridge, who docs not have a Facebook account, said she is aware of Faeebook's pervasive­nnss on eollege campuses, thanks to a cautionary e-mail she recnivod from Viee President fi1r Student Af'fairs Fathor Mark Poorman earlinr this semester. 
Tho e-mail indudnd a eopy of a news story about administrators 
at Ponnsylvania 
Statn Univorsity 
from Poorman did 
not indicate that 
similar aetions would be taken by ·the University, but the e-mail cautioned reetors to be awarn of the "dangers" of Facebook and other third party wcbsites like 
MySpace.com. 
"The other thing I worry about 
with Faeebook is that things that 
lstudentsl put on Facebook that 
are funny now could come ba!:k 
when they're trying to get a job ... 
I think that's a real shame to be 
up fi1r a really [.,treat job [and] to 
have a pieturn that's on Faccbook 
east a shadow over their eharm~­
tcr." 

For Navy ROTC (NHOTC) mid­
shipmen, Facebook profiles are 
under further scrutiny by their 
superiors. 

"We have no set policy per se 
over here, but our midshipmen are by definition, representatives of the United States Navy and Marine Corps, and as officers and oflicers-in-training for the Navy and Marine Corps we wouldn't expeet them to put on Web sites anything their grandmother wouldn't be OK seeing," NROTC commander Jeffery Morris said. 
Morris said he has his own Faeebook account that he access­es about once every two months to "sec what everyone is doing." 
"It's purely random," he said. "lit's likel keeping your finger on a pulse. Some people might say it's a little more than that. I'm trying to see what's out there." 
Morris has meeived "numerous e-rnails" from Navy HOTC units at other universities around the nation, most of which advise Morris to "ehcck and sne what your midshipmen are posting" on Faeebook. 
lie said he's only had to speak with "one or two" midshipmen about th.cir profiles. 
If he finds a profile that has qunstionable photographs on it, he will call the midshipman into his office -but no punitive measures are taken. 
.''I'd have their advisor talk to them and say 'Hey, I happen to be surfing Faeebook today, I saw y'our site, are you sure your mother or grandmother would be OK with what you have on there?'" 
What Notre Dame students must remember, Shoup said, is that Facebook is not a private site. 
"Like ·I said, it's public domain," he said. "If someone puts something on Facebook or MySpace, I can look at it, their priests can look at it, parents Can look at it ... " 
Facebook at Saint Mary's 
At Saint Mary's, the use of Facebook by administrators is more pervasive. But as at Notre Dame, no punitive measures have been taken against students with questionable profiles -or not yet, at least. 
"Saint Mary's is just b1~ginning to explore ways to utilize Facebook to communicate with students and to determine if these sites should be considered when hiring for student leader­ship positions," director of Hesidenee Life Michelle Bussell said in an e-mail. 
Hussell said her main concern with Facebook is the threat it posns to student safnty. 
"My biggest concern is for the student's privacy and safety in post­being used." 
Zoeller said shn heard about Facebook earlier this year from one of her students who informed her about the site and the questionable photographs posted on it. As department chair, she said it's her responsi­bility to maintain her Faeebook membership. 
"''m not sure I would have got­tnn into it lothnrwisel but whnn I finally did it was concerning to me ... thn way !Saint Mary's stu­
ing these photos," 'Td say every dnntsl dneidnd to Hussell said. have tlwmselves
couple ofweeks
"Obviously every­represented in that one in the Saint someone is domain," Zoeller Mary's and Notre accessing Facebook said. "Partying, Dame community drinking out of a
/from the Office of 
can access .this pitcher, being in
Residence Life and
inform<ttion and rnvnaling dothing, pass it on to any­Housing]." you .w~t the pic­one." turn. 
Bussell has a Zoeller has not
Jeffrey Shoup 
Facnbook account taken punitive
director
and accesses the aetion in regards Web site about Residence Life and to what she has once every two Housing seen on Facebook. 
weeks -or if someone posts a message on her Facf1book wall. 

"I rarely just go in to look around," Hussell said. "I just don't have the time." 
Faeebook is also accessed by department chairs, like nursing department chair Linda Zoeller. She has aceess to Faeebook and said two or three others in lwr department of 12 also have accounts. 
"I have every right to be on Facebook as much as anyone else," Zoeller said. "That's some­thing I'm entitled to do, like any other person with a '.edu' address. But it helped me to see what was happening and how it's Instead, shn uses 
the site as a point of discussion in her classes ­warning students about the potential prndators who could be roaming the site and reminding students that f'utum mnployers might be looking at their profiles. 
''I'm trying to inlimn students. l'v1~ spoken with a eoupln lstu­denL'>I in partieular· ... lwei need to have them understand the ramifications of' the use of their space and to point back to what is a violation if you don't have someonc's permission," Zoeller said. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

~~;·<.·SJhlrt~. rw'~ ;u,i,•ni ernpk;'~nltHt )F'-ntn•"­:f!;r 1h.~ Sii rrnr<··f ,r.J t!I'· _!Of lfl _:!Ill >!\.. .itL·~ I'J•. •· ',tf. 
!l;~~ 1 'tTw' •.:. ri .,., ~ h, I~ t.'i. .... p, •if • ! '* ·;·,j h :!;;. ".<b;Hi..~ w 1It\.' JP/ nf lh Ip.n~ 111 lin ;r'ltil' ; I ··l1 J·:~.;.:>;,!!ll'\liti ;.:··,,j ', 


House, apartment or dorm a mess and you don't feel like cleaning? Call Dustbusters Cleaning Crew to do it for you! Call 732-948-6508 to set up an appt. 

REE'''~~~~'4 

• • • 'li "&
'~c 

cyTesting $ 

lJ~·~JoJ l~~~ IRONWOOD CIRClf '/J·~~~o 
www.womenscarecenter.org 
Wednesday, March 29, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
York Times in January. information such as political Students often feel comfort­group "Dobbs 2nd Alcoholics" Facebook's magnetism has affiliation and sexual orienta­able posting questionable pho­-named for the second floor

Punishment 
drawn its largest following tion. The site's users can also tographs or including candid of a campus residence hall ­
from students, who register send private messages, join
continued from page 1 
with school e-mail addresses to groups and inscribe memos on Facebook user logs on six set up personal pages on which another user's "Wall" -an times per day, another Web they can post photo albums, interactive and ongoing per­site spokesman told the New class schedules and personal sonal message board. 
Wednesday, March 29 THEOLOGY ON TAP Jenni Oliva Sr. Mary Lynch S.S.J. Rector. lft:~ward Jla/1 Rector. J~lcGiinn 1/all If Where have we been••• •••and where are we going? More to Get tapped in at Legendscome on Doors Open at 9:30pm,4/5 Speaker starts ­1 O:OOpm CM Free soft-drinks and food, cash bar  

QiJ College of Arts and Letters University of Notre Dame Invites Nominations for the Sheedy Award Each year, the Sheedy Award, nmned for a fonner dean of the college of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. Both students and faculty are invited to subnlit nomination letters for this year's award to: Stuart Greene Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall Dea(Uine 1\londay, 10 April 2006  

information on their Facebook profiles because a user's page can usually only be accessed by a "Friend" or schoolmate. Additionally, all Facebook users must have valid ".edu" e­mail addresses. 
But students are not the only people with such addresses. University administrators, pro­fessors, police officers, coaches and alumni can also have col­lege e-mail accounts -and non-students have begun to use Facebook as an investiga­tive tool at campuses across the country. 
The issue has become so rampant that the interactive online encyclopedia Wikipedia now features the topic, "Facebook's use in investiga­tions." College administrators have begun to warn students to remove "inappropriate" material, as employers might search their profiles. Coaches worry the Web site might cause trouble for student-ath­letes bound by a stringent NCAA code of conduct. 
The Hanover Police Department in New Hampshire admittedly uses Facebook as a tool for tracking down suspect­ed student lawbreakers at Dartmouth College, according to a Feb. 3, 2006 article in the school.'s student newspaper, The Dartmouth. Police Chief Nicholas Giaccone said the department "maintain[s] a col­lection of Facebook [accounts]" -which were created after police bought a number of e­mail addresses from the College for that specific pur­pose. 
According to its Terms of Use, the Facebook is available for "personal, noncommercial use only." But unless users implement the necessary pri­vacy settings in their profiles, information published on Web site is public -a scary thought for students who wish to keep the Facebook world at a safe distance from the real world. 
Alcoholics not-so-anonymous 
According to the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, an "overwhelming majority" of all college stu­dents -88 percent -have used alcohol. Not surprisingly, the pervasiveness of the habit is often chronicled in the Facebook profiles of underage and of-age drinkers alike. 
Students have recently faced disciplinary action for alcohol violations at some universities not for possession of a sub­stance or intoxication, but rather for incriminating Wall posts, group affiliations or published photos. 
Fifteen North Carolina State 

University students were 
charged with alcohol offenses 
last fall because of pictures 
posted on Facebook profiles, 
according to an Oct. 29, 2005 
article in the school's student 
newspaper, The Daily 
Technician. That November, 
four students at Northern 
Kentucky University -a dry 
campus -received $50 fines 
for posting photos that showed 
students drinking from a keg 
at a dorm party. 
Students' unseen acts of mis­

conduct have also been pun­
ished by campus administra­
tors. In October, the Berry 
College campus police broke 
up a freshman party on cam­
pus after a student jokingly 
sent the chief of police an invi­
tation through Facebook. . 
In November, Emory 

University officials slapped 
members of the Facebook 
with conduct code violations. A similar drinking group, "Woodruff=Wasted," was also investigated. In a Nov. 22, 2005 article in the Emory Wheel, the group's creator said members only discussed "hav­ing fun in Woodruff' and said no photos of students drinking were ever posted on Facebook. 
Other offenses 
In February, four Syracuse University students were forced to meet with a judicial committee and placed on disci­plinary probation for creating the Facebook group, "Clearly [instructor's first name] does­n't know what she's doing ever." Members personally denigrated the professor through a series of posts on the Web site. 
One student at Fisher College in Boston was expelled from the school in October after he used Facebook to criticize a campus security officer who "lov·es to antagonize students ... and needs to be eliminated." Dean Bonie Bacghi said in an Oct. 6, 2005 Boston Globe arti­cle that the _student "conspired to and damaged the reputa­tion" of the officer. 
Facebook criticisms of prominent individuals are not limited to the college sphere. The Secret Service questioned one University of Oklahoma student after he posted a Facebook comment about assassinating President George 
W. Bush in March 2005. 
In October, a Duquesne University student was ordered to write a 10-page essay about homosexuality in the Catholic Church after material on his Facebook user profile was deemed homophobic by uni­versity officials. On the other­hand, a gay student at John Brown University -a private, Christian college in Arkansas -was kicked out of school in January because he posted pictures on Facebook in which he was dressed in drag. 
Permeating nearly every facet of campus life, Facebook has also affected university athletics. In October 2005, Penn State University police officers used the Web site to trace the students who rushed the field after the Nittany Lions defeated Ohio State in an Oct. 8 game. Two members of the Facebook group "I Rushed the Field After the OSU Game (And Lived!)" were charged with criminal trespassing. 
Athletes themselves -not just their overzealous fans ­are also facing severe conse­quences because of Facebook. Athletics officials at Florida State University and the University of Kentucky recently admonished athletes against posting any questionable mate­rial on the Web site. L~yola University of Chicago forbids student-athletes to have Facebook accounts, according to a March 8, 2006 USA Today article. 
In May 2005, two Louisiana State University swimmers were kicked off the team after athletics administrators dis­covered they belonged to a Facebook group which specifi­cally targeted and bashed team coaches. 
"Facebook is dangerous right now," one swimmer told USA Today in the March article. "You're supposed to have fun with this Facebook thing, but you need to be careful." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 
page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, March 29, 2006 
Reagan defense secretary Weinberger dies 
Conservative statesman remembered for role in ending the Cold War, involvement in 'arms-for-hostages' controversy 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Caspar W. Weinberger, who oversaw the Pentagon's biggest pnaeetimn spending increase as President Heagan's dlll'ense sm:retary and later was indicted li1r his roln in the Iran-Contra alTair, died Tuesday. lin was HH. 
Weinberg~~r had been hospital­iwd in Bangor, Mainn, with a high fever and pneumonia brought on by his age, ae(:ording 
t.o his son. Caspar Weinbnrger .Jr. 
Prnsidnnt Bush called him "an Anwrkan statesman and a dedi­(~ated public sPrvant" who strnngtherwd tlw military and helped ~ml the Cold War. "This good man made many eontribu­tions to our nation." the presi­dent said in a statenwnt. 
I lnfnnsn Sncn~tary Donald II. Humsldd said. "lin left the U.S. armed forces strongnr, our count:y s.~tfer and the world morn lrnn. 
Weinberger served as Prnsidnnt Nixon's budgnt direc­tor and was given the nieknamn "Cap the Knife" for his ell'orts to slash govnrnmnnt spending. Yet Weinberger's best-known role may have been as Heagan's dd'ense seeretary, when the dassic eold warrior presided over a eumulative $2 trillion in military spending. 
Determined to ensure U.S. stratngie strength to counter the Sovint Union. Wninberger pushed Congress to fund sueh programs as the Strategic Dnl'ensc lnitiativn, Midgetman and MX missiles, B-1 B bombers and stealth aircraft. 
But it was also during this time that reports surfaced of' excesses at the Pentagon, from $(J()O toilet seats to $400 ham-



FACTOR 
Stop In and Register to Win! 
1710 E. Turtlecreek Drive South Bend, Indiana 

I
Drawing held on 03/31106 


WE'VE GOT.THE 

mers. Cartoonists had a l'ield 
day portraying Weinbnrger with 
toilnt seats around his neck. 
In a Feb. 10, 1986, interview with The Washington Post, Hnagan defended his defense secretary. "That's the same priee that TWA and Delta and United pay. It is a molded cover for the entirn toilet system. And, yes, it does cost about that mueh." 
Supporters contended the dnl'ense buildup helped cause thn collapst~ of the Soviet Union. 
"llis legaey is a strong and free Amnrica, and for this and l'or a lirntime of snl11ess serviee. a grateful nation thanks him," former first lady Naney Heagan said Tu11sday. 
A lifelong Hepublican, Weinberger's early interest in polities and government ­sparked by his father. a lawyer -led him to the Pentagon and White I louse. 
But his work also led to a trouble -federal felony charges stemming from his alleged role in the sale of' weapons to Iran to finance secret, illegal aid to the Nicaraguan Contras. 
The "arms-for-hostages" alTair poisoned the closing years of' Reagan's administration and permanently stained the reputa­tions of the insiders involved. 
In one of' the first President Bush's final ollieial acts after his 1992 loss to Bill Clinton, he granted Christmas Eve pardons to Weinberger and live others accused in the af1'air. Bush was Heagan's viee president. 
Weinberger, 75 at the time, had been scheduled to stand trial in less than two weeks on charges that he concealed thou­sands of pages of his handwrit­ten notes from congressional investigators and prosecutors. 
lle'd earlier rejected inde­pendent counsel Lawrence Walsh's plea-bargain offer to testify against his longtime friends and colleagues-includ­ing Reagan -and plead guilty to a misdemeanor. 
Weinberger had said he was innocent of all the charges and considered the indictment a political attack. 
After the pardon was announced, Walsh alleged that "the Iran-Contra cover-up, which has continued for more than six years, has now been completed." 
Weinberger's son said Tuesday, "My father was just a 







TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
Xtremely Close to Campus X citing Renovations Inside &Out X traordinary Rents Start At $560* 
888-278-8124 
GET GEARED UP! 
We're giving away anew ~ox 360 
Go Home...Go Wireless...Go Live! 
Office Hours: 
M-F: 9:00 AM-6:00 PM 
Saturday: 10:00 AM-5:00PM 
Sunday: 1:00 PM-5.:00 PM

www.campuscribs.net 
world diplomat, a No. 1 great American patriot. He always stayed the course. He always had beliefs, he held to those beliefs." 
In 1989, Weinberger, a self­described "frustrated newspa­perman" -he was president of the Harvard Crimson -joined Forbes to become the maga­zine's fourth publisher. In 1993 he was named chairman of Forbes Ine. 
Weinberger occasionally spoke out on current affairs in recent years. In 1996, he criticized then-Defense Secretary William 
J. Perry for refusing to announce publicly that the U.S. 
would defend Taiwan if' China fired missiles at the island. 
lie told a Nebraska group in 1999 that despite vietories in the Cold War and Gull' War, the United States stilll'aeed threats 
"Peace alone is not enough. Peace can even mean slavery sometimes. Peace and freedom is what we have to have," Weinberger said. 
In 1983, he argued that a l'orce of U.S. Marines stationed at Beirut's airport was too small and lightly armed, calling them a "disaster waiting to happen." On Oct. 22, 1983, 241 Marines and sailors were killed in attacks on the barracks. 

State trooper gets life 


Indiana officer killed his wife, two children 
Associated Press 

BOONVILLE, Ind. -A judge on Tuesday sentenced a for­mer Indiana state trooper to life in prison for the murders of his wife and two young chil­dren. 
Jurors earlier this month convicted David Camm of three eounts of murder for the September 2000 slayings of Kimberly Camm, 35, and seven-year-old Bradley and five-year-old Jill. 
At the same time Cam m's trial was under way, another jury across the state was hear­ing testimony that led them to convict an ex-convict in the same killings. 
Prosecutors said the two men conspired to carry out the shootings. 
"This jury should have heard the whole story of Charles Boney as the killer of my fami­ly," Camm said tearfully in court Tuesday. "I do not under­stand this, and I never will." 
Proseeutor Keith Henderson, who tried both men, said he did not believe Camm 's emo­tional address. 
"Justice has been done here," he said. "This case is­closed." 
Beeause of evidence restric­tions, jurors in Camm 's trial were not told that Boney, 36, was convieted in January. 
Camm was first convicted in 2002 and sentenced to 195 years in prison, but the state appeals eourt overturned the verdict, ruling that testimony about Camm 's extramarital affairs had unfairly biased jurors. 
The prosecution's ease cen­tered on tiny bloodstains found on a T-shirt he wore the night of killings. Crime scene experts testified those stains placed him within feet of his daughter when she was shot while strapped into a seat of Kimberly Camm 's SUV. 
Defense attorneys argued that the stains got on Camm's shirt when he found the bod­ies. They called witnesses who said Camm was playing bas­ketball that night, but prosecu­tors contended Camm left the game, killed his family, then returned. l-Ie reported the deaths when he returned home. 
Boney was charged with eon­spiring with Camm, convieted on three counts of murder and sentenced to 225 years in prison. lie was linked to the case last year by DNA evidence on a prison sweat shirt bearing his nickname, "Backbone," and a palm print at the crime scene. 
Boney's eonviction and pros­eeutors' allegations that Camm molested his daughter ­something he was not charged with -will be central to an appeal Camm's attorneys have said they intend to file. 
-----------------------------------, 
Wednesday, March 29, 2006 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 


NC)W ACCEPTING APPLICATIC)NS FOR THE 



JPW 2007 
Committee 
Apply by J\llarch 31st for any of the follovving positions: 

Chairperson Vice-Chairperson Graphic Designer Secretary Treasurer 

Gala Chair Workshop Chairs: Dinner Chair Arts & Letters Brunch Chair MCOB 
Mass Chair Science Hospitality Chair Engineering 
Position Descriptions and Applications can be found on the JPW website: 
http:/jwww.nd.edu/-jpw 
Questions? Contact the Student Activities Office at 631-7308 or drop by 315 LaFortune Student Center. 
·:.::·:=·= 


Please recycle The Observer. 
RUSSIA 
UN nears consensus in Iran nuclear debate 
Associated Press enrichment inside Iran. 
Iran also reiterated that 
MOSCOW -Iran has pro­Security Council intervention posed setting up a nuclear in the dispute would "escalate fuel production facility within tensions, entailing negative its borders with international consequences that would be of help; the Iranian Embassy benefit to no party." said Tuesday, as diplomats Nonetheless, the five veto­reported that the U.N. wielding members of the Security Council was "very Security Council said Tuesday close" to an agreement on they were nearing a deal on a how to confront Tehran's sus­proposed statement address­pect program. ing Iran. Russia and China 
The new Iranian proposal is have so far opposed a propos­an alternative to Russia's offer al from Britain, France and to host Iran's nuclear fuel pro­the United States that would duction as a way to ease con­demand Iran comply with cerns that enrichment con­demands that it suspend ura­ducted in Iran nium enrich­could be used ment. to develop "We have reached "We have weapons. Iran reached agree­
agreement on the bulk 
maintains its ment on the
ofthe text, so there was
atomic pro­bulk of the gram is for movement on all sides, text, so there generating was movement
and now we need to see 
electricity. on all sides,
whether we can cross
Russia said and now we its enrich­this last bridge but need to see ment offer we're very close., whether we 
was contin­can cross this gent on Iran last bridge but resuming a John Bolton we're very moratorium U.S. Ambassador close," U.S. 
on domestic enrichment, but the Iranians rejected that link. 
"In terms of satisfying its needs, Tehran cannot remain dependent on international suppliers," the Iranian gov­ernment said in the statement. 
"Iran would welcome the creation of an international nuclear fuel center on its ter­ritory with the participation of other countries and in the framework of an international consortium." 
It was not clear whether the offer differed from one that Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad made before the 
U.N. General Assembly last September. At that time, he offered foreign countries and companies a role in uranium 
Ambassador 

John Bolton said after the permanent five held three meetings Tuesday. 
Britain and France circulat­ed the text of a proposed statement later Tuesday to the rest of the 15-nation Security Council. Diplomats said that was a sign that divisions with China and Russia had nar­rowed after three meetings in eight hours, though they said differences remained. 
The five permanent mem­bers of the council have strug­gled for three weeks to come up with a written rebuke that would urge Iran to comply with demands from the U.N. nuclear watchdog, the International Atomic Energy Agency, that it suspend urani­um enrichment. 
CHINA 
Pope 111ay visit China for maiden Vatican trip 
Associated Press 
HONG KONG Pope Benedict XVI told a delegation from Hong Kong he will visit China in what would be an extraordinary papal visit to the communist nation, but he said the trip's timing depends on "God's wish," media reports said Tuesday. 
One of the Vatican's goals is to restart official relations with China, which forced its Roman Catholics to cut ties with the Holy See in 1951 after the offi­cially atheist Communists took power. People can worship only in government-controlled churches. 
But millions of Chinese belong to unofficial congregations loyal to Rome. They say they are fre­quently harassed, fined and sometimes sent to labor camps by authorities. 
Pope John Paul II, the most­traveled pontiff in history, was unable to visit China during his 26-year papacy. Pope Paul VI made a three-hour stopover in Hong Kong in 1970 when it was a British colony. 
No pope has ever visited mainland China. 
The Hong Kong delegation was in Rome for ceremonies installing 15 new cardinals, including Hong Kong Bishop Joseph Zen. 
Zen, an outspoken champion of religious freedom in China, said he believed the pope would visit Hong Kong first if he made a China trip. 
"Hong Kong is part of China and perhaps he should come here as a first step," Hong Kong's South China Morning Post quoted Zen as saying. 
The delegation included Hong Kong media mogul Jimmy Lai, who told the pope Monday, "Please come to China to bring us love and democracy," Lai's Apple Daily newspaper report­ed in a front-page story. 
The pope responded, "I will come," the newspaper report­ed. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 12 Wednesday, March 29, 2006 
----~-----=--================================================================== 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 465% 024 South Dining IJ.II, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
ElliTOR IN CHIEF Mikt· Gilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie IIanna Paula Garcia 
A.'is'l: MANAGING EDrron: Rama Gmrumukkala ASST. MANAGING EDITOI!: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Amanda Michaels Mary Kate Malone VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: joey King SroJUS EDITOR: Ken l'owlcr SCENE EOJTOR: Brian Doxtadcr SAINT MAllY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAI'IIIC.\ EDITOI!: (;raharn Ebersch 
AIIVEIUISIN<; MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
An DI·~\IGN MANAGEI!: Nina Pressly 
CONrllOLH:Il: Jim Kirihara WEll AllMINISTI!Aillll: Damian Altholf SYSTEMS AI>MINISTRATOI! Alejandro Gcrbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
('574) 63!-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 63!-6900 obscrvad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 ohsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
('574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsntws.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.cdu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.J@nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 63!-4540 sc<:nd @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @ml.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/Nf 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhc independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by tl1c studcn!S oftl1c University ofNouc Dame duLac and Saim Mary's Cullc~:e-Editorial comcm, including advertisements, is nm governed by policies of the administr-ation ofeither institution. The Ob..~rvcr reserves the right to refuse adwniscmcnt< based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as p<>'-<ible. Unsigned editorial< rcpresem the opinion of rlw majority of the lidiror in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns prescnr the views ofdw aU£hors and not necessarily those ofThe 
·Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lencrs to rhc Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qurstions rrgardint. Obsm•erpolicies should be dirtcred ro Editor in G'hiefMike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
l'hc Obamcr (liSPS ~<)<) 2-1000) "-puhhllwd M\>ftday thtollf.th Friday except dunf18 crum o~n.f v~ulion period... A..ubk-r•prion ro The Observer is SIOI) t(•rone academk yelt; s~-; fllr one !it'fflutct. 
11lc Oi'!Krvt'r ~ lltlhl•~lu:d Ill~ POSTMASTER (J24 S"u1h Diuh1~ f !.all Sc:nd !iddre.\1 um~rium w: Nutte Do~.111e. IN 4C.Sj6-077'' 11Lc:Oho.t-rvt't 1\:ri,.di~ ..IJiftiUf..'C p,ai,j .n Nuuc l>lmc r.o. l\t,,779 Jilt! Jddn~m~lmililin~ ullicC\. 0.!4 .Snuth Dimn~ llall 
Nuuc Dune, IN 4ti-;.Y~77t.J 
Tlu:· Ol*"'v.-r i• ;a mrmhcr uf 1hc ~~:i.u~d l'tc':\ll. All r~:pr•ulu~tiun ri.d••• ;al't' 
llfKIWri 

Misbehaved ones 
In the final stretch of my columnist career here at Notre Dame, I would like to take the opportunity for the second time to uplift some of the sen­ior members of our community who have impacted this campus and taught me more of what it means to be a stu­dent ol' Our Lady's University. Considering that we find ourselves in tlw last week of Women's history month and in the prnsence of Laurel Thatelwr Ulrich, historian (as the best discipline in my opinion) and the eoi1wr of the phrase, "Well-behaved women sel­dom make history," I will be f()(~using on great womon who have made his­tory lwrn and surely will in thnir earner of life. 
Jackie Clark is one of the first peo­ple I met at Notre Dame and I have had the real privilege to watch her develop and make trouble during her tenure. Second only to maybe Madonna in reinventing her look, Clark to me is a masterful risk taker. Before really knowing the result, she takes action. This in itself is rare, yet Clark couples her courage with social concern. 
In her legacy stands the most inter­esting coat collection dorm competi­tion, a campus wide sleep out for homelessness, food drop program for social services and a half marathon for charity. Clark has an imagination for making social action accessible for college students. ller work in social justice has also been stellar. As a leader in the Campus Labor Action Project, she speaks with a moral authority of the connection between our faith commitments and society's problems. 

Kama ria Porter 
Black, Red and Catholic 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Kaity Hedfield is quite rightly one of our campus's most competent and energetic leaders. At Notre Dame, some issues Will drag you through the ringer. ller efforts in standing up against violence against women have been inspiring. I appreciate Hedfield's persistence in leading stu­dent groups on these issues even until her senior year. ller investment in challenging us on these issues is beyond popularity or filling a role. Hedfield is disgraced by situations in which people cannot tell their stories of victimization nor seek adequate lwlp and this angnr fuels her action. I foresne that the changes the dia­logue she has facilitated will makn this campus better for all its daugh­ters and sons. 
Hhea Boyd gets most of my admira­tion for taking up an issue close to my heart. As many African Ameriean students could testify to, when I arrived here I know that fitting in was not a possibility. Boyd has rea­soned through a way to not only uplift thn images and stories of minority students but also to invite majority students to enter conversa­tion about cultures different from their own. Her push to create cultur­al competency is a tool that fits our role as an academic institution. We should value the amount of love, curiosity and care that Notre Dame students have for people as much as we do for books and intangible knowledge. Boyd realizes the poten­tial of a university education to pre­pare people for life in diverse com­munities, not only a career. 
Despite her double major, I cannot skip shining a light on Jess Collado. During her time here, she has really engaged the South Bend community, built relationships and done what most here in power fail to do -lis­ten. Instead of presuming, she has taken the time to Iiston to community members on what concerns them and what they would like to take action on. 
I have been privilegnd to go with Collado to community mnasures on heating deposits and community organizing against poverty. Also, hnr work hero on through the Center for Social Concerns on youth and vio­lence issuns has bem1 good to sec. Collado shows us what our nxe1~llent training and concern for soda! issues could do in the community. 
I could not leave this column with­out mentioning Julia Fitzpatrick. llnr parking practices aside, I havn really benefited from seeing how she inte­grates praynr with social rdlection. Whether it was planning a social jus­tice rally, going to thn School of the Americas, talking about lwr experi­ence in Egypt or canvassing for votes on Nov. 2, 2004, I havn bnnn glad to work with Fitzpatrick beeausn of tlw confidence and earn slw brings to such work. In her actions, one can sense that something d11npnr than idnas drivns her. I suspnet it is lwr faith and comm)tment to human dig­nity. I am also refreshed by hnr study of Arabie and plans to work on some­thing rnlated to the Middle East­engaging the other for peace and understanding. 
Women make great leaders, teach­ers and comrades. We are blessed here to have these and many more Notre Dame women who misbehave, take the lead and change our world. I am honored ·to have worked with these students and even more so to receive my degree in tlwir company. 
Kamaria Porter is a senior history major and is excitedjiJr today's Provost /,ecture. She would like to congratulate Paul Graham, who told her to apply for Viewpoint so long ago, on his wedding this weekend. She can f>e contacted at kporter@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those r~f The Observer. 
Spirit of inclusion appreciated 
Sometime recently, I was walking through my dorm and came across a rather large rainbow flag inscribed with the words "Spirit of Inclusion" hanging in my dorm lobby. My first reaction was shock. Never ·in a million years did I expect to see a rainbow flag decorating a dorm on this campus (excluding students' private rooms). My second was deep gratitude. 
I am a senior and have been out on this campus for a little over three years now, and have been involved with the Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Student Nends since the beginning of my sophomore year. Needless to say, I have seen a lot over the past four years revolving around GLBT issues. 
Some of what I have seen has been good, and some of it has made me feel incredibly unwelcome here. What I felt most of all, however, was invisible. So many students see GLBT issues as something that is debated .over lunch or in a elass, but for me, it involves an important part of who I am. I struggle daily with the assumption of hetero­sexuality that the majority of people on this campus hold regarding the people around them. 
To see a rainbow flag up in my residence hall told me, in the most simple manner I can think of, that GLBT stu­dents are embraced and recognized as part of the Notre Dame community and that discrimination and intolerance 
_ arc not welcome in our halls. For that, I am incredibly grateful. I recently found out that these flags were offered to all the hall rectors but that only a handful agrned to display them. For those who did, I would like to say thank you. For those who have not, I would like to ask you to n~con­sider. It could make all the difference in the world to a GLBT student living in your hall to see this symbol of acceptance. I can only imagine, if the flag had such a strong impact on someone like myself who has come to terms with my sexuality, what kind of impact it may have on the students hnre who are still struggling. 
Tiffany Thompson 
SCiliOf 
Welsh l'amily Hall March 28 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Megan O'Neil Eric Hetter Kaitlynn HiPly Dan Murphy Maureen Mullen Tim Kaiser I low do you feel about people Viewpoint Seene 
other than eollege students Laura Sonn Tae Andrews 
viewing your Faeebook profile? 
Graphics Brian Doxtader Graham Ebetseh Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
1SubmitaLetter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"One's dignity may be assaulted, vandalized and cruelly mocked, but canno.l be taken awa.~ unless it 
zs surrendered. 
Michael J. Fox actor 

'THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 29, 2006 
page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Injustice in the fields of Florida 
The Coalition of Immokalee Workers (CIW) is a community-based worker organization composed mainly of immigrants with low-wage jobs in the tomato fields of Florida. The CIW focuses its efforts towards achieving respectable working conditions and living wages for these traditionally oppressed people in the region, as well as the right to be directly involved in decisions that affect their lives. 
In order to achieve these goals, the CIW set their sights high and aimed for the corporations that pur­chased tomatoes from the fields they worked in. In 2001 the CIW announced a nationwide boycott of Taco Bell, whose parent company Yum Brands was found to be one of the largest buyers of their toma­toes. Four years later, in March of 2005, Taco Bell agreed to meet all the demands of the CIW. This huge step, however, applies to less than one percent of the tomatoes picked in Florida. 
Having won the battle against Taco Bell, the CIW is currently pressuring another fast-food giant, McDonald's, to take responsibility for the workers' rights of those in their supply chain. In the fall of last year, the CIW and the Student Farmworker Alliance (SFA) sent letters and postcards to McDonald's asking for compliance to their demands. 
McDonald's response was to sidestep the issue by supporting a new bogus organization called Socially Accountable Farm Employers (SAFE). The credibili­ty of SAFE as an organization to "audit and certify fair, lawful farm labor practices in the agriculture industry" is called into question when looking at their corporate ties, in particular to McDonald's. 
In comparing McDonald's to SAFE, many similari­ties appear between the two. Handling media work for SAFE is CBR Public Relations, a company who lists McDonald's as one of its major clients and cites "activist response management" as one of its areas of expertise. Also, to verify their certification, SAFE hired the auditing company lntertek, again employed by McDonald's. In addition, out of all the businesses that buy tomatoes from Florida, McDonald's is the only one which publicly supports SAFE. 
Besides the possibility of McDonald's aiding in the creation of SAFE, we also must take under consider­ation who is accountable for creating this organiza­tion. Ironically, it is run by the Florida Fruit and Vegetable Association (comprised of the same farm employers who SAFE targets) and the Redlands Christian Migrant Association (their favorite chari­ty). Clearly SAFE may not be quite as secure for the workers as its name implies. 
William E. Gladstone once said, "Justice delayed is justice denied." The CIW has communicated with McDonald's through negotiation, but no change has been made. Seemingly inspired by Gladstone, the CIW is now turning to more direct action to fight for the rights that every human being deserves. 
Starting this past Sun., March 26, the CIW launched The Real Rights Tour, designed to travel the country educating students, among other allies, on the situation in Florida. Included in its destina­tions is our own University of Notre Dame. This Thurs., March 30, from 12-1:45 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium of the I-lesburgh Library, the CIW will be presenting their experiences in the tomato fields and educating on the McDonald's Campaign. They will then continue on, concluding their tour with a rally in Chicago, Illinois this coming Sat., April 1, in which some Notre Dame students will be participat­ing. 
Someone once said, "If you educate people, they will come down on the side of justice." As members of the Notre Dame family, we have a great opportu­nity here to educate ourselves on what we can do in the fight for justice. 
Nate Gibson Rosa Lopez Carlos Santos March 27 

Pirate mascots offensive too 
I would like to voice my opinion on the ongoing debate that has raged amongst differ­ent factions at Our Lady's University regard­ing the name of our sporting teams. I tend to agree with Paul Richards, Sinead Howley, et. al in the attack on our mascot. This issue is very important to me, for being a sports fan I, too, am under constant assault of an unfortu­nate depiction of my people's history. My father, you see, was a "pirate." 
Buccaneering has a long and rich history in the Bochnowski family. The ugly word "pirate," however, harkens back to days when men with scurvy leaped from boat to boat, pil­laging and generally raising a ruckus. While there certainly is swashbuckling involved in the life of a buccaneer, this archaic word is clearly associated with the negative aspects of the occupation. 
Let me tell you, every day on the playground was terrible on the psyche of a young boy. "Let's see your parrot!" some kids would say. "Where's your eyepatch?" others would sing. 
Indeed in this day and age, pirates are forced into the main profession of their ilk ­the service industry. Unfortunately, this indus­try is almost completely reliant on tourists, mostly Americans, who have no idea what real pirates are like. Therefore pirate movies and rides perpetuate an image of the drunk­en, makeup-wearing, pillaging sort. While there is drinking, there is very limited pillag­ing. And there is absolutely no makeup. 
Myles Brand recently stated that, "The NCAA objects to institutions using raciaVeth­nic/national origin references .in their inter­collegiate athletics programs." If this is true, we must take it one step further. We must get rid of every mascot that can possibly offend anyone. 
I personally find Seton Hall's mascot offen­sive. But we cannot possibly stop there. My friend Bobby's father works at a ranch ­change Oklahoma State's mascot! My friend Megan's second cousin was mauled by a mountain lion -I say for her sake change Penn State's mascot. 
Stop the madness. We wouldn't want to offend anyone. 
Jim Bochnowski sophomore Fisher Hall March 27 

'Fighting Irish' moniker testament to character, not slur 
Paul L. Richards letter on March 22 has gotten our Irish up, so to speak, by suggesting that the "Fighting Irish" nick­name is offensive. As proud Irish-American Catholics and proud sons of Our Lady, we believe that the term "Fighting Irish" has become an indication of Notre Dame's pride in and respect for her heritage, rather than a mere epithet. 
We agree with Richards that the nickname "Fighting Irish" originally arose as a slur directed against Irish­Americans in general and the largely Irish-American stu­dent body of the University of Notre Dame in particular. We do not deny that the term has its roots in anti-Catholic and anti-Irish prejudice of the worst kind. However, we contend that the term "Fighting Irish" has taken on a drastically dif­ferent meaning in the decades since it was coined. 
Since it became the official Notre Dame nickname in 1927 (at the behest of then-University President Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., an Irish-American), the term "Fighting Irish" has come to be associated with a legendary spirit of tenacity and persistence towards unprecedented athletic excellence. The victories of the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, especially in football, have long been a point of pride for working-class Irish-Americans. Like our athletic teams, Irish-Americans as an ethnicity have worked hard and forged success for them­selves, often in the face oflong odds and bigoted abuse. The legendary subway ah.imni-including our own grandfa­thers-were drawn to Notre Dame because, under the banner of the "Fighting Irish," it exemplified the ability of the underdog to succeed through determination and com­mitment to excellence. 
We believe that the "Fighting Irish" nickname is a vital part of Notre Dame's heritage. Rather than perpetuating a stereotype or slurring an ethnicity, the nickname repre­sents the Notre Dame character of triumph against all odds. We are proud to be known as the Fighting Irish, and hope it ever remains as an emblem of Notre Dame's fight-. ing spirit. 
BrendanJ. Hanehan Michael P. Varley juniors Keenan Hall March22 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, March 29, 2006 

MOVIE REVIEW 
By TAE ANDREWS merged with Time Warner. Put simply, the ing gaze of his and de Assistant Scene Editor Spike-Denzel combination is money in the convietion, that he will bank, which provides for an interesting.sce­crime, a heist so flaw Pair two industry veterans with impressive nario when actor Clivn Owen is addnd to the abln to simply waltz ot portfolios and savvy to match, then throw in mix, precisely because he is a bank robber doors when he's "good; an up-and-comer for good measure, and the trying to make ofT with money from a bank. llernin lies tlw fun c result is more than a sound investment -it's In "Inside Man," Ownn seems to have taken unlikn mystery or "w a bloekbuster. Actor Denzel Washington a cue from rapper Juicy J of thn Oscar-win­c a p n r fi lm n s clw w s reunites with .director Spike Lee !'or their ning hip-hop group Three 6 Mal'ia wlwn J "w ho/wh a tlw h~~ n/wh nr l'ourth collabot·ation in "Inside Man," a heist raps, "I ain't Denzel but I know I'm a star." favor of the "how." I>t film in which Washington plays Dntective As one of the best <~m<~rging and-rn Keith Frazinr, a eop trying to catch up with a actors in Hollywood, Owen and rll bank robbnr (Clive Ownn) who always snems holds his own opposite lies in
As one of the finest

to bn onn step ahead. Washington as Dalton Bussell, nlud<~ 
As one of the finest actors of his generation, a criminal mastnrmind who actors ofhis generation, dnliveJ it's no coincidence that Washington's surname has seemingly craftnd tlw per­it's no coincidence that · PXPI'Ut is identical to that of Gnorge Washington, the feet crime. Unlike'
Washington's surname is
founding !'ather whose visage is printed on Owen's stock has risen q ualit: the dollar bill -Donze) is money, plain and sharply as of late. Aftnr d<wel­identical to that of rnvnal simple. Washington's currency as an ;u~tor is oping a eult following in a George Washington, the llopdt his versatility, as his talents include nH~nnt series of short films produced tlw auc
founding father whose 
turns as an em battled football coach in 2000's by auto manufaeturnr BMW in plot tw
visage is printed on the
"Hemembor the Titans," a blue-collar !'ather 2001, Owen made his dnbut as Joel ie in 2002 "John Q," and a bodyguard with a a lethal assassin opposite Matt dollar bill -Denzel is Dafon tortured soul in 2004's "Man on Fire." In Damon in "The Bourne per for
money. plain and simple.
addition, his atypical lwei performance as a Identity" in 2002. II<~ followed "Inside hard-nosed corrupt cop in "Training Day" "Bourne" with "King Arthur" a taln earned him an Academy Award in 2003. in 2004, and "Closer" later could 
Prior to "Inside Man," Washington's collabo­that year. Owen then played the character charactnr, Polien CapUti rations with director Spike Lee wen~ nothing Dwight in "Sin City" in 2005, a ladies' man slnep, but it is Fostnr w short of excnllent. After teaming up for "Mo who takes on a corrupt cop. mold here. Portrayinf Better Blues" in In all of his roles, Owen power broker. Fostnr is 1990, the pair met belies his proper British ing as Madelin Whitn, a up again two years Inside Man aceent by playing characters ing to usn anything, · later in "Malcolm X." who are a walk on the wild senmingly endless In. Washington put in side -he's English, but with pownr heels, to g<~t wha one of the best per­enough rogue in him to let sold hnr soul to thn de1 formances of his viewers know that he's no White brings a ruthless career as the titular gentleman. In "Inside Man," nr to the table. and incendiary civil Director: Spike Lee Owen is no different -he is As elnver as it is slid rights leader. In Writer: Russell Gewirtz menacing under his dark sun­fun m<ivie to watch at 1998, Washington Starring: Denzel Washington, Clive glasses and paintnr's attire. example of the burg<H>I 
starred opposite NBA Owen, Jodie Foster and Willem Dafoe As a smooth customer with addition, it features star Hay Allen as an insider information on the llere's some insider in 1 incarcerated felon in "lie Got Game." business of knocking over seemingly atively low pricn of $ Taken separately, Lee and Washington are impregnable banks, he stars as an intellee­the local Cinemark, more than capable of cornering the market, tual criminal mastermind. f'ilrn,"lnside Man," is a but when placed together, the duo is the most At the beginning of the film, Owen stares powerful union since American Online direetly into the eamera with that penetrat-Contact Tae Andrews at 

Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 
Mastermind Dalton Russell (Clive Owen, right) and his masked henchmen will Actor Denzel Washington, left, and di1 try to pull off the perfect bank robbery without spending time behind bars. on the set of "Inside Man." The film m1 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, March 29, 2006 
page 15 

CAREER HIGHLIGHTS 
lares, with perfect 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 

xecute the perfect 
Scene Editor 

that he will be of the bank's front 
In a career that now stretches over two
d ready." 
decades, director Spike Lee has establishedtlw heist genre ­
himself as one of America's premier filmmak­
ldunit" films, the 
ers. From his NYU film school days to "Inside
the rest of the 
Man," Lee has explored various controversial 
hy" spec:trum in topics with skill and grace. Though he has wellfilm's cat­over a dozen films to his credit, there are a few 
game of cops 
in his oeuvre that stand out.
bnrs. tho true fun 
She's Gotta Have It (1986)
eeing if Owen can 
A brief (85 minutes), busy film about a
ashington and 
woman who can't decide between three men,
his prorhise to 
Leo's feature debut helped usher in a new wavetlw perfnet crime. 
of American independent cinema. Shot in 15d magicians. the days on a budget of less than $200,000, "She's
hnist film always 
Cotta Have It" introduced the world to the 29­
its sPerets. 
year-old director's considerable talent. Thoughy, it will impress the film was not as sharp, insightful and pol­nee with its clever ished as Leo's later works, "She's Gatta Have It" as well. 
has a quirky charm and energetic style that the ostnr and Willem director would never again quite capture. 
lso put in quality 
Do the Right Thing (1989) 
ancns during 
By 1989, Spike Lee had established himself as an." Dafon is such one of America's premier directors, and he ful­
ed aetor that he 
tilled his promise with the masterpiece "Do the 
asily portray his 
Right Thing." A pre-"Crash" examination of 
John Darius, in his racism, "Do the Right Thing" bristles with gusto o really breaks the and righteous anger. Praised and criticized in 
an ice queen and almost equal measure for its passionately
extremely Cf!nvinc­
incendiary content, the film was nonetheless a man who is will­box otlice success and helped pave the way for 

luding a pair of 
black directors like John Singleton ("Boyz N the 
, accentuated by 
Hood").

she wants. Having At once invigorating, difficult and ground­a long time ago, breaking, "Do the Hight Thing" remains Lee's d intelligent play-masterpiece and one of the best films of the 1980s. There are those who still feel that the "Inside Man" is a film was robbed at the Oscars, where the uplift­
d an entertaining 
ing and relatively uncontroversial "Driving Miss ing heist genre. In 
Daisy" took top honors. 

enzel Washington. 
Malcolm X (1992)

ation: for the rei­Lee's 1992 biography of the assassinated civil 
with student ID) at 
rights leader is as epic as they come, following
;pike Lee's latest 
Malcolm X's entire life over the course of 205 
rong investment. 
minutes. Anchored by an astounding perform­ance by Denzel Washington, Lee's film manages
drew I @nd.edu 
to capture the civil rights icon as a difficult, 

Graphics by GRAHAM EBETSCH and JEFF ALBERT 
complex and ultimately realistic man -the director neither makes him a larger-than-life figure nor demonizes him for his flaws. "Malcolm X" solidified Lee as a director of great .. talent and considerable vision, though the over­all quality of his work dipped slightly in the decade following its release. 
Summer of Sam (1999) · 

Noted critically as Lee's first film without a primarily blaek cast, "Summer of Sam" is more problematic because of its unfocused sprawl. Touting S).lch acting talent as John Leguizamo, Adrien Brody and Mira Sorvino, the plot never quite gels. Though this multi-faceted narrative tableau is a trademark of Lee's style, "Summer of Sam" is one of his few films that never becomes quite engaging enough to sustain momentum over its considerable length. The atmosphere of paranoia and fear is suitably oppressive, but becomes wearing as tho film surpasses the two-hour mark. Still, the direc­tor's ambition and conviction shine through (as usu'al), and his commitment to detail prevent "Summer of Sam" from being: a complete fail­ure. 
25th Hour (2002) 

A complex, difficult film starring Edward Norton and Philip Seymour Hoffman, "25th Hour" was the first Hollywood film to address post-9/11 New York City. See Also Following a drug dealer's 
"Visionary Film

final day before he is to go to prison, Lee's film is Director 'Spikes' the a desperate search for 
Movie Industry"

hope, redemption and resolution in an uncertain page 16 world. Though anchored by the unerring perform­ance of Edward Norton in the lead, "25th Hour" still did not live up to the director's admittedly high standards. Its mani­cally aggressive style and visual overload was problematic for many, who saw the film as an example of the director allowing style to over­shadow substance. One of Lee's last forays into didactic cinema, it helped pave the way for 2006's "Inside Man." 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 


..-----~------------~----­
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 16 
Wednesday, March 29, 2006 
SCENE FEATURES 

Cinematic crime capers emerge as fresh film genre 
evident. The film is set completely in a By SEAN SWEANY warehouse except for the f1ashbacks, Scene Writer which emphasize the heavy violence 
and actions of the main characters. 
The job. The con. The heist. In The well-written script is skillfully I lollywood, the heist film is one of the enacted by veterans Harvey Keitel, Tim trickinst to capture. Characters must Roth and Steve Buscemi. While it is embody a certain amount of ambiguity, extremely violent and visceral, the plot must contain the right level of "Heservoir Dogs" is an intelligent heist complexity and the story must be movie worth seeing for its unique believable for a heist film to be suc­approach to the genre. cessful. Because of thesfl prerequisites, Lock, Stock and Two Smoking capnr lilms are usually either horribly Barrels (1998) bad or delightfully entertaining. llere This Guy Ritchie film is a strangely arn some of the bt~tter examples of an addictive heist movie where four idiots inereasingly popular genre. try to scam a group of dumb drug deal­
.. The Sting (1973) ers. "Lock Stock" combines an intelli­
A winnnr of seven Academy Awards, gent heist plot with quick, witty British "The Sting" is perhaps the quintessen­humor. The actors, headlined by Jason tial heist film. Hollywood giants Paul Statham ("The Transporter") speak in Newman and Hobert Hedford eo-star in clipped British accents and drop sever­a humor-filled caper, complete with a al instant-classic quotable lines. Hitchie plot line that constantly twists and directs his movie with a fast style that turns. "The Sting" can easily be heightens the tension of the heist while watched repeatedly thanks to its clever bringing out the inherent comedic ele­vigor with which the characters Cooper vehicle made famous in the plot and memorable soundtrack. The ments, thanks to the foolishness of the approach their task makes it palatable film. It is obvious that the film crew acting hnre is superb, and it's easy to characters. Gritty and original, "Lock, and very entertaining. From the look of took pride in their stunts and speeial sen that the filmmakers had a fun time Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" the film to its music to the aeting, effeets, as most of the main actors per­making the movie, a trait that usually stands out as a unique and fresh take "Ocean's Eleven" exudes a clever, formed their own stunts. This adds translates to success and longevity for on the traditional genre film. charismatic feel from start to finish. realism to the film and allows audi­Hollywood films. This classic has Ocean's Eleven (2001) The Italian Job (2003) ences to engross themselves in the served as a benchmark for all heist A remake of the 1960 Rat Pack film Another remake of a '60s film, "The action of the film. films and still maintains its vitality and by the same name, "Ocean's Eleven" Italian Job" is a fun, action packed What all these heist films have in relevance. lists an all-star cast that includes movie that stars Mark Wahlberg as a eommon is the ability to grab the imag­
Reservoir Dogs (1992) George Clooney, Brad Pitt, Matt master thief plotting a large heist in ination of an audience and run away 
The first true directorial effort of Damon, Andy Garcia and Julia Roberts. the middle of Los Angeles. A support­with it, including audience members as Quentin Tarantino, this movie uses Director Steven Soderbergh helms the ing cast of Charlize Theron, Edward participants in schemes to steal and flashbacks to depict a heist on a dia­casino heist movie in a slick, cool style Norton and Donald Sutherland keep swindle. They remain vital pieces in mond warehouse. As writer and diree­. befitting its Las Vegas setting. The theft the movie entertaining, but the real fun the arsenal of Hollywood genre films . tor, Tarantino had great control over involved is one of the more unlikely lies in the stunts. Car chases abound this film, and his distinct style is very ever devised for a heist film, but the here, especially with the new Mini-Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
SPIKE LEE: A DIRECTOR'S OEUVRE 
Visionary film director 'spikes' the movie industry 
and prove to be one of the most controver­
By MARTY SCHROEDER 

sial films Lee has made to date. Scene Writer 
The film opens with a quotation from Martin Luther King, Jr. in which he con­It's not enough to say that Spike Lee is demns violence and states it is never justi­one of the foremost African-Ameriean fied. The film's plot revolves around a vio­directors of our time -he's easily one of lent situation in a New York neighborhood the greatest living filmmakers. Known for involving raee issues. In closing, a quota­films that concern themselves with race tion from Malcolm X is displayed, stating and ethnicity, Lee's pictures frequently violence in response to oppression is justi­delve into societal ills sueh as poverty, fied. The apparent contradictions of these crime and media influence over these sub­two quotations are left up to the audience jeet matters. Despite the controversy they to resolve. Despite the controversy -or often create, Lee's best lilms certainly perhaps because of it -Lee was pushed deserve reeognition as important cinema, onto the movie scene as a filmmaker to 
Born in pre-civil rights era Atlanta to a watch. jazz musieian and sehoolteacher, Lee In this same vein, he would make the moved to Brooklyn as a young child. After 1992 biopie "Malcolm X," starring Denzel high school in New York, Lee went back to Washington and "Bamboozled," a 2000 Atlanta and eompleted a B.A. at film concerning racial stereotypes, as well Morehouse College, the all-male eollege as other films that raised issues of race for blacks that counts Martin Luther King, and race relations in the urban United .Jr. among its alumni. lie would then go on States. to complete an M.F.A. at the prestigious "Bamboozled" is of particular interest Tisch School of the Arts at New York because the cireumstanees of its creation University (NYU). While at Tisch, fellow are typical of Lee as a filmmaker -he dassmate Ang Lee -whose directorial earefully seleets his projeets, direeting credits include "Crouching Tiger, I Iidden only the films he wants to make. Due to 
Photo courtesy of rriuse.jhu.edu 

Dragon" and "Brokeback Mountain" -the low budget of this film, a vast majority 
Denzel Washington stars as the eponymous character in "Malcolm X." Directed by
helped Spike Lee with his student lilm of it was shot on digital video instead of ".Joe's Bed-Study Barbershop: We Cut film. Using cameras that one could pur­Spike Lee, the film was the second collaboration between the two. I leads." chase at a local electronics store allowed After completing his education, Lee Lee to use 15 cameras at a time and saved during the summer of 1977. It is an home and the specific culture in whieh he started his own production company, 40 money on the budget. Only one seene was insightful look not only at the situations was raised. Acres & a Mule Filmworks -so called shot on film, but costs were again eut by surrounding the murders but also at Respeeted as a filmmaker and a man because of' the "40 acres and a mule" using cheaper 16mm film instead of the 1970s New York and its culture. "25th who does not pull punches when it comes promisod to freed black slaves after the usual 35mm. These sacrifices were made Hour," starring Edward Norton, is a film to his choiee of topics, Lee can always be Civil War, which was ultimately an empty because Lee had trouble finding finances that deals with relationships as it follows a eounted on to make a film that most crit­promise. Lon's first two features, "She's for the film. llowever, he was able to jug­man through his last day before a seven­ics will like but not everyone will agree Gotta Have It" and "School Daze," would gle these choices and make the lilm work year incarceration. His latest, "Inside with. Hegardless, he will undoubtedly con­showcase his talent and potential great­due to these sacrifiees. Man," is a heist film that reunites Lee with tinue to receive reeognition as a premier ness as a filmmaker. Lee's third film. "Do Not all of Lee's films deal with race. Washington. American filmmaker. The Hight Thing," in which lw also "Summer of Sam," released in 1999, fol­While these lilms do not deal specifically starred. would garner an Academy Award lows residents of New York as they deal with the issues of most of Lee's other Contact Marty Schroeder at nomination for Best Original Screenplay with the serial murderer "Son of Sam" films, they do pertain to his New York City mschroe1@nd.edu 


Wednesday, March 29, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT page 17 
Don't forget about MOVIES in the BROWNING CINEMA 
Caii631-FILM for a recorded list of this week's showings! 
A C A D E M·Y 0 F 
ANCIENT MUSIC 
PLAYING AN ALL-MOZART PROGRAM SATURDAY, APRIL 1 AT 8 PM LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL I STUDENT TICKETS: $15 

Wednesday, March 29, 2006

page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 

Pistons win in possible championship preview 
Bell drops career-high as Milwaukee heats up and routs Phoenix by hitting a team-record 18 three-point baskets 
Associated Press quarter's end. 
"Stack did his thing tonight," 
AUBURN IIILLS, Mich. -The said Wallace, a close friend of' 
Detroit Pistons enjoyed beating Stackhouse's since their days at 
Dallas so mueh that they want a North Carolina. "I just wish he 
chance to do it again. would have done it against 
"I told Avery [Johnson I after someone else." the game that I'd like to see him The teams traded the advan­seven more times, starting in tage for most of the fourth, and about three months," Pistons the game was tied with 3 min­coach !'lip Saunders said. utes to play. 
If the Pistons (56-14) and Mavericks (54-17) do meet in Charlotte 125, Atlanta 117 June's NBA Finals, Detroit's 97-Charlotte Bobeats guard 90 vietory Tunsday might play a Brevin Knight looked at Gerald crucial role in determining who Wallace's shooting numbers gets the home-court advantage. and thought of an NBA legend. 
"Obviously, this is a very dis­"He had 17 layups -those appointing loss," Johnson said. are Wilt Chamberlain num­"We definitely gave ourselves a bers," Knight said after Wallace chance to win, we just didn't scored 18 of his career-high 41 execute down the stretch." points in the fourth quarter of 
With the win, the Pistons split the Bobcats' vietory over the the season series with the Atlanta Hawks on Tuesday Mavericks and moved 2? games night. ahead of them for the league's Haymond Felton added 28 b1~st reeord. points and 10 assists, and hit 
"This is a very big win, but we the clinching 3-pointer with 31 won't know just how big for a seconds left. Charlotte shot 57 while," said Chauncey Billups, percent, snapped a three-game who seored eight of his 31 losing streak and scored the points in the final three min­most points in its two-year his­utes. "It might be huge, or it tory. With Amare Stoudemire The Grizzlies had their seven­might just end up as another Wallace hit 17 of 22 shots, Milwaukee 132, Phoenix 110 returning to the Suns' bench game winning streak snapped vie tory." almost all coming in the paint, Charlie Bell had career highs with knee pain after a sluggish despite Gasol's franchise-record 
The win avenged Detroit's including two alley-oop dunks of 19 points, B assists and 10 night Monday, the Bucks went scoring total. worst loss of the season, a 119-in the final quarter to set a rebounds for his first career with a bigger lineup and began Allen dribbled to the left wing, 82 rout in Dallas on Nov. 19. franchise record for points in a triple-double, and the taking over in the third quarter. and as Eddie Jones made a stab The Pistons trailed 40-16 after game. lie scored six more than Milwaukee Bucks hit a fran­Tied at 80, Milwaukee hit five at the ball, Allen shot the one quarter, and Billups wantod Kareem Rush had against chise-record 18 3-pointers in a consecutive 3s to start a 17-3 jumper which bounced on the to makn sure there wasn't a Indiana on Nov. 16. victory over the Phoenix Suns run that made it 97-83 midway rim before dropping through. rnpeat. "They played him 1-on-1 for on Tuesday night. through the third. Shane Battier's inbounds lob as 
"Dallas and Phoenix arc the the most part and he's tough to Michael Hedd had 28 points After Suns coach Mike time ran out hit the baekboard. two teams that really make an guard," Knight said. "He as the Bucks set season highs in D'Antoni called a timeout, he Allen led the Sonics with 20 flll'ort to jump on you early, so I attacks the basket." almost every offensive category, disputed a foul call and was points and five assists, one of knew I had to be aggressive Despite Wallace's big night, scoring 46 points in a blistering given a technical foul, but it seven Seattle players in double tonight." he said. ·:1 think the the Hawks had a chance to tie, third-quarter 3-point assault. didn't spark the Suns, who figures. Johan Petro l"inished team plays better when I'm but Zaza Pachulia missed a Milwaukee finished 18-of-32 trailed 104-88 going into the with 15 points, while Rashard aggressive." foul-line jumper with 52 sec­from 3-point range and set sea­fourth quarter. Lewis added 14 before being 
Hasheed Wallace added 21 onds left. Felton, who missed son marks for points, points in a Toni Kukoc had a season-high helped off the court with a leg points and 10 rebounds for Sunday's loss to Memphis with half (74). points in a quarter, 17 points after playing sparing­injury with 3:12left. Detroit, while Hiehard Hamilton an abdominal injury, hit his field goal percentage (60 per­ly before last week's road trip. Earl Watson had 13 points swred 14 points. fourth 3 from the right wing on cent) and assists (36). Gadzuric also scored 17, while and six assists for Seattle, while 
"It's a lot of' fun to play games the next possession to seal it. Early in the fourth quarter, Simmons and Mo Williams each Chris Wilcox and Luke Hidnour like this," Wallace said. .Joe .Johnson scored 35 points Bobby Simmons hit a 3, fol­had 15. Andrew Bogut added each scored 11. Mikki Moore "Espedally when you are going and .Josh Smith added 20 points lowed by a dunk, a layup and a 14. scored 10 points and had seven up against one of the NBA's bnst and 14 rebounds for the Hawks, dunk by Dan Gadzuric where Nash hit his first seven shots rebounds. teams, like we were tonight." who have lost five straight. the Bucks ran the same play and got an extended rest early .Jones had 16 points for 
Dirk Nowitzki and former The game, matching teams three straight possessions as in the game with Phoenix in a Memphis, while reserve Mike Piston Jerry Stackhouse each with the league's worst record they built a 115-96 lead. The stretch of five road games in six Miller added 11. Gasol grabbed had 25 for Dallas. (Charlottf1) and the fourth-worst Bucks never let Phoenix get days. nine rebounds. 
"That's as good as it gets in (Atlanta), featured little close again and led by as many Meanwhile, Eddie House The Sonics scored seven this league," Stackhouse said. defense. Wallace took the as 24. came off the bench and hit his straight points midway. through "But wn'rn going to look at this biggest advantage of the Bell had the type of night first five shots and scored 13 the final period and held an 89­film, and we're all going to be Hawks' soft interior, repeatedly most expected from reigning points in 7 minutes. He finished 86 lead with 5:21 left. [mad I. because we had the beating defenders Marvin MVP Steve Nash, who scored 23 with 19. But Memphis retook the lead game. We didn't play smart, Williams and Smith on post points after his first scoreless on Gasol's runner that broke and that cost us the game." moves before the Hawks performance since joining the Seattle 98, Memphis 97 the franchise record, and back­
·Stackhouse, who still holds switched to a zone. Suns against New Jersey the Ray Allen made an off-bal­to-hack baskets by Miller. The the Pistons' single-game seoring "It's ridiculous. Our commit­night before in a 110-72 loss. ance 19-footer with 0.3 seconds Grizzlies held a 97-93 lead record, had nine points in the ment to defense is awful," The Suns regained their scor­left, and the Seattle SuperSonics when Miller scored again on a third quartnr, but the Maverieks Atlanta coach Mike Woodson ing touch, but couldn't slow the overcame Pau Gasol's 44 points fadeaway 15-footer with the nended Keith Van Horn's late 3-said. "We're not even trying to Bucks' sudden offensive jugger­to beat the Memphis Grizzlies shot clock running down and pointer to stay within 72-69 at defend." naut. on Tuesday night. 1 :07 left in the game. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED-Come live at the POTATO HOUSE. 4 bdrm/2bth newly remodeled NEED A CAMPUS JOB FOR NEXT ROOM HOMES 19237 Cleveland, close to NO. Call house near campus. $87,000.220-YEAR? 
WANTED MMMRENTALS.COM Giovanni 586-405·8715. 8666. PERSONAL Join the Student Activities staff. 
532-1408 Real Jobs. Nanny wanted for infant & toddler. Furnished 4BR house near NO. TOP DOLLAR PAID FOR YOUR UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Real Experience. WTHF during academic year & 6 3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web ADT,air,laundry,dishwash,base-FOOTBALL SEASON TIX. not go it alone. If you or someone Real Money. 
weeks in summer full time. site:mmmrentals.com ment,yrd. 287·4961. PLEASE CALL 277-1659. you love needs confidential support Application deadline is 
NO family. Contact:Gary 574-993-2208 or or assistance, please call Monday, April 3. Contact 246-0572 or grooms@ourwebspot.net Just 1 block from campus I For THE BEST HOME IS NOW AVAIL· Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC at Visit: ekenned1 @nd.edu lease, 4 brand new 3 bedroom con-ABLE FOR THE COMINGSCHOOL 631-7819. sao.nd.edu/jobs 
Looking for lodging for home foot-dos ranging from $1500-$2200 per YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-6 STUDENTS For more information, see our bi-for more info. ball games? month. 574-243-4554 ext.203. No ALL THE AMENITIES 2773097 weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. FOR RENT Call 574·276·841 7 for details. utilities included. Venus: 
Individuals/Clubs: Sell I Love the Tuesday night session on battleship Lake Cottage 4 rent Aug. to May. Beautiful 4bdrm house, 1.5 baths, FoR SALE Irish Flags Great for Dorms & activi-was SWEET. 269-699-5928. C/A. Gas stove,microwave,fridge, & TICKETS ties! Contact: Must think of other male organs that 
WID. 2-car garage. Walk to ND. Furnished 4BR house near ND. Shamrock@ilovetheirish.com or rhyme with your name. bdrm/2 bth house near campus. $1.400/mo ($350 per room). 574-O.A.R. tix first 3 rows & James ADT,air,laundry,dishwash,base-808 943-8524. Love $1350. 220-8666. 277-1875. Taylor. Call 272-7233. ment,yrd. 287-4961. www.ILoveThelrish.com from all the officers and men. 
---------------------------~-----------------------------------------------·------------------------------­
Wednesday, March 29, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
·­
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
I 
Tar Heels crush Volunteers to 111ake it to the Final Four 
Associated Press flexed her muscles at LeBron Summitt and helped North CLEVELAND -Ivory Latta James, shook hands with Pat Carolina drop mighty Tennessee 

RS. • • 
..........:::= 
Trying To Decide What To Do Next Year? 
Become aHolv Cross Associate 
-1 year post-graduate volunteer program focusing on community, simple living, spirituality, and service 
-connection with Holy Cross in local communities: Associates are welcomed with open arms in each of their communities by Holy Cross community and Associate alumni 
-rich tradition: in existence for 28 years, well-established in each location 
-intimacy of program: despite program's long history, we have chosen 
not to expand much in order to maintain a stronger sense of community 
and connection among Associates, past and present 
-importance of communal prayer: rooted in faith, communal prayer is a necessary part of HCA life...journey of faith together in community 
-Unparalleled Support from local communities, alumni, staff, neighbors, your fellow Associates 

APPIV bV April15thl 
http://holycrossassociates.nd.edu 
Colle,e Park. is now 

New Name .. New Management. New Owners.. Same Great Location.. 
• &.Ua and l:roowood Jto.a<l• k dw ltM::atl.<m, MK;aUo(4 t~om 
• Ju•t oulside 1m dty IJ:m.IU.. b1111 a111bon ~ m t:ulJIUIII 
• 2 bfi!dt(!Qttfijf 2 btihs, -in-l'iliit ••bet'-d~ 
• 1UO aq. ft., t:Sithedm cell.mp on tH aecofltt tloort Jtl..c:e Qlcooy 
• C~tly teulng tor the nut tmool yem 
• Com.plrtltitre root:s and tei'JU 
• Om·ike man~~ 
Stadium Chili tAn~ aMtwlielng llilifllged by --~ :i».......n;etu corpomeil)n, the la.l'f}e~ll ph)peftY ma~11¢t'i'ttnt Ci:ittt~n'r in ltQMhem lnr.ll,an.a and $0Uth"WeS!em Mithl~, 1\",Ji~gl.fi$; Q\\1"11' ) ,.200 l;itii.1$, 
Looking for a great new aparttnent? 
Contaa Swan Mirier, Dtrectoi/Senit!t Property .MaJUger, ar 

574-243-7530 

out of the NCAA tournament. 
She's fearless. She's fast. She's feisty. 
And, she is Final Four-bound. 

The littlest Tar Heel, making every big play down the stretch, put top-seeded North Carolina in its first Final Four since winning the 1994 national championship with a 75-63 win over Tennessee in the Cleveland Regional on Tuesday night. 
After complaining that their road to Boston was way too tough, the Tar Heels are packing their bags for another road trip. 
. "We're the No. 1 team in the 
nation," said Latta, "and tonight 
we showed it." 
The 5-foot-6 (with heels on, 
maybe) Latta finished with 20 
points, nine assists and four steals 
in 40 minutes for the Tar Heels 
(33-1 ), who will play Maryland in 
this weekend's Final Four. 
The Terrapins were the only 
team to beat North Carolina, edg­
ing the Tar Heels by three points 
in overtime on Feb. 9 . 
Latta scored nine of her team's 
final 11 points, drilling a crucial 
3-pointer with 3:27 left. 

------------------------------------·------------------·------·---------------------------------------------------------~----­
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, March 29, 2006 
IRL 

Danica Patrick and crew opt out of Toyota 300 
After tragic death of rookie team member Paul Dana, the Rahal Letterman Racing Team withdraws from big race 
Associated Press 
IIOMESTEAD, Fla. -Danica 
Patrick said Tuesday the Rahal 
Letterman Racing team made 
the right decision in keeping 
both her and teammate Buddy 
Hice out of Sunday's season­
opening race at Homestead­
Miami Speedway after the 
death of rookie Paul Dana. 
"I don't think you can ever 
question the decision that your 
boss makes," she said during a 
break in testing on Homestead's 
road course. 
Heferring to team co-ownf)r Bobby Hahal. she added, "II' he would have said 'race' or 'don't ra1:e,' that's what I would have done. I race for him. I think he did a very, very good thing. This is life. We drive race cars, and it's what we love, and it's our job, but we don't walk out there a eouple minutes afterward and say, 'I've forgotten already.' 
"I don't think that anybody can uitique the faet that he said 'don't race.' lhit outside people could have if he would have had us go out there and 
raen." 
Patrick and Hice both plan to race on Sunday at St. Petersburg in the second IHL lndyCar Series race of the sea­son. 
Dana, a 32-year-old rookie, joined the team this season and was schmluled to make his first start of Hahal Letterman last Sunday. Instead, he was pro­nounced dead two hours after crashing into the nearly stopped car of Ed Carpenter, who had hit the wall several seconds earlier. 
Carpenter spent a night in the hospital, but was released Monday, suffering from a bruised lung. 
Patrick, last year's rookie phenom who led and finished fourth in the Indianapolis 500, said she didn't know Dana very well. 
"I tend to keep a little bit to myself," she said. "I don't talk to very many people. I pretty much go from my motorcoach to my truck and to the track. I really didn't get to know him very well. 
"I told him to move over a couple of times when he was sitting in my seat right next to my engineer," she said, smiling. "But he was a very nice guy. And, gosh, did he want it." 
Patriek pointed out that Dana got his ride with Hahal by get­ting Team Ethanol to sponsor his No. 17 race car. 
"Either you get a free ride or you bring a sponsor along," she said. "You can write your own checks, and you write your own ticket. He did the hardest thing; he got a sponsor to stand behind and give him a ride. 
"They said, 'All right, Paul Dana, we believe in you.' I remember at the Christmas party, and I was sitting in a meeting with the team and I thought, 'What's going on here, is he going to drive for the team? I was surprised, but he made it happen. Good for him. And you know what, he was proving he was driving the thing. I was a little scared because he was keeping up with us. I think he did better than I expected." 
Hice, the 2004 Indy 500 win­ner, remembered Dana as a driver with a lot of heart. 

"That guy put everything he had into becoming a race car driver," Rice said Tuesday. "Obviously he got a little bit of later start than some of us; that's just the way of the course. I think he had a lot of drive, he had a lot of heart and he put everything he had into becoming a race car driver. 
"Obviously, it was short but he got to'do what he wanted to do and he made it to the top level.'' 
Patrick said race car drivers understand that it is their job to race, even under difficult cir­cumstances. She said there was no hesitation about getting back in the cockpit this week. 
"Things are a lot more somber, and rightfully so," she said. "Somebody died. It sounds a little bit cold, but it is the job. We do have to keep racing, but we will give him the best trib­ute and the best thoughts and prayers that we can." 


Teamwork• omorrow 
Applications Due April 2nd 
Email team"W"ork@nd.edu to receive an application. 


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, March 29, 2006 CoMPtLED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 21 
NHL 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record OT points 
NY Rangers 40-20 12 92 Philadelphia 40-21 10 90 New Jersey 35-27 9 79 NY Islanders 33-32 5 71 Pittsburgh 13:41 12 46 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record OT ' points 
Ottawa 48-16 6 102 Buffalo 44-21 6 94 Montreal 35-27 9 79 Toronto 33-32 6 72 Boston 28-32 13 69 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record OT points 
Carolina 47-18 6 100 Tampa Bay 38·29 5 81 Atlanta 35·30 6 76 Florida 32·30 9 73 Washington 23·38 9 55 
Western Conference, Central Division 
team record OT points 
Detroit 49·15 7 105 Nashville 42-21 8 92 Columbus 28-40 3 59 Chicago 21-38 11 53 St. Louis 20-38 12 52 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record OT points 
Calgary 39·24 8 86 Colorado 39·25 8 86 Vancouver 39·28 6 84 Edmonton 36·24 12 84 Minnesota 32·32 7 71 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record OT points 
Dallas 48·20 3 99 Anaheim 37-21 12 86 San Jose 36·24 10 82 Los Angeles 38·29 5 81 Phoenix 33·34 4 70 
NCAA Baseball Top 25 
team record paints 

1 Florida Slate 25-2 495 2 Mississippi State 19·1 494 3 Nebraska 17-3 492 4 Georgia Tech 20-4 488 5 South Carolina 22-3 486 6 Cal State Fullerton 20-7 484 7 Rice 20-8 483 8 North Carolina 20-5 481 9 Clemson 16-6 479 10 Texas 19-10 477 11 Miami(FL) 23-7 472 12 Arizona State 21-7 469 13 Wichita State 21-5 466 14 Virginia 22-5 465 15 Louisiana State 19-7 463 16 Alabama 19-8 460 17 Vanderbilt 17-7 456 18 Oregon State 15-7 453 19 Georgia 17·5 452 20 Arkansas 20-5 450 21 Kentucky 20-5 448 22 Tennessee 17-7 447 23 Oklahoma 20-6 445 24 Baylor 16-8 443 25 James Madison 19-5 440 
around the dial 
NBA 

D~troit vs. Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m., ESPN Boston vs. New York, 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 Utah vs. Denver, 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 
Pittsburgh vs. Boston, 1 p.m., ESPN 

TENNIS 2006 NASDAQ-100 Open, 12 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana will hire Kelvin Sampson as its next basketball coach, taking him from an Oklahoma team under the cloud of a recruiting investi­gation to lead one of the most prestigious programs in the country. 
Sampson broke the news to his Sooner team Tuesday, the same day Indiana play­ers were informed, one of the Hoosier players' relatives told The Associated Press. 
Details of the deal were being worked out Tuesday, said a person close to the talks who requested anonymity because negotia­tions were ongoing. No news conference was scheduled. 
"I was caught by surprise a little bit," said Taylor Griffin, a freshman forward for the Sooners. "He made the deci­sion. I guess it's better for the program. I guess it's better for him." 
The 50-year-old Sampson, AP's Coach of the Year in 1995, will replace Mike Davis, who announced last month he was resigning. Davis went 115-79 in six sea­sons as head coach, was the first Indiana coach to win 20 games in each of his first thr.ee seasons and led the Hoosiers to the national championship game in 2002, two seasons after Bob Knight was fired. 
The Hoosiers were 19-12 
IN BRIEF 
NASCAR's Gordon fined for track-side altercation 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -Jeff Gordon has always been a model of good behavior off the track, the rare driv­er able to keep his emotions in check. 
That changed when he angrily shoved Matt Kenseth following the race at Bristol Motorspeedway, an action that drew a $10,000 fine from NASCAR on Tuesday. It's the first time in Gordon's 14-year career that he's been penalized for his conduct. 
Don't expect Gordon, who was placed on probation until Aug. 30, to turn into another Tony Stewart or Kurt Busch. But the image-conscious driver is committed to letting loose the emotion he's kept bottled up over the years. 
"For many, many years I've been so reserved from controversy," he said. "I was just so concerned with 'What was this person going to think?' and 'What was that person going to think?' and I was more caught up in this year and reached the second round of the NCAA tournament, where they lost to Gonzaga. 
Stephanie Gilbert, who help raised nephew A.J. Ratliff in Indianapolis, said the Hoosiers' sophomore guard called her Tuesday to discuss the change, first reported by ESPN. Gilbert also said it was likely Ratliff would stay at Indiana. 
"He's looking forward to meeting him and getting to know him," Gilbert said. "He seems pretty happy." 
Ratliff declined to com­ment and denied that a team meeting was held. Two other key Indiana players had said after Davis resigned that they were apt to transfer: D.J. White, the 2005 Big Ten freshman of the year, and Robert Vaden. 

Gilbert said Sampson's hir­ing could change their minds. 
"Once they meet with him, they'll probably need to see," Gilbert said. "I think, from the looks of it, they have a pretty good coach on their hands." 
Oklahoma officials declined to comment Tuesday. Telephone mes­sages left for Indiana athletic director Rick Greenspan and spokesman Pete Rhoda were not immediately returned. 
Sampson leaves Oklahoma behind amid an inv~stigation for possible recruiting viola­tions. 
that than I was in being true to 
myself. 

"What you see today is a more 
truer Jeff Gordon and who I really 
am. I'm not a robot. I have a person­
ality and I have emotions and I have 
a humorous side to me and an angry 
side to me." 

Outfielder Grissom calls it a ·Career after 17 seasons 
MESA, Ariz. -Marquis Grissom 
announced his retirement Tuesday 
after a 17 -year major league career. 
The 38-year-old outfielder signed a 
minor league contract with the 
Chicago Cubs in January and had 
hoped to make the team as a backup. 
But he batted just .200 in 17 spring 
training games. 
Grissom leaves as one of seven 
players with 2,000 hits, 200 home 
runs and 400 stolen bases, joining 
Craig Biggio, Roberto Alomar, Barry 
Bonds, Rickey Henderson, Paul 
Molitor and Joe Morgan. 
Grissom finished with 429 stolen bases, including a career-high 78 in 1992. He was a two-time All-Star and four-time Gold Glove winner during a career that saw him play in the majors with six teams. 
''I'm at peace with myself. I'm happy," Grissom said. "1 feel like the whole world has been lifted off my shoulders." Indiana hig_hway will not be 
named for'Reggte Miller 
CARMEL, Ind. -A stretch of U.S. 31 won't be named for retired Indiana Pacers star Reggie Miller after all. 
That's because the highway section just north of Indianapolis that was to be designated for Miller by the Indiana Department of Transportation has spent the past 12 years as the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Highway. 
"Once we were made aware of it and spoke with the veterans and that sort of thing, we decided to not pur­sue that plan," highway department spokesman Gary Abell said Tuesday. 

Wednesday, March 29, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
NBA 
Spurs beat Clippers to clai111 conference lead 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Tim Duncan and the San Antonio Spurs vivid­ly remembered what Elton Brand did against them three weeks ago. 
They were not about to let him repeat it. 
Duncan had 20 points and 13 rebounds, and did a lot of the heavy work in containing Brand on the other end of the floor Tuesday night in leading the ~purs to a 98-87 victory over the Los Angeles Clippers. 
"Elton is having such a great season, he's been an MVP candi­date all year long, and we felt we should start there because he hurt us so bad last time," Spurs coach Gregg Popovich said. "It worked out for us this time." 
Brand led the Clippers with 20 points and 10 rebounds, but he shot only 3-of-11 and scored 11 points after the first period. He had 30 points and nine rebounds March 7 in a 98-85 victory over the Spurs at Staples Center. 
"It was a huge key," Duncan said of containing Brand. "He really hurt us last time. We decided to come after him and make them change their game a little bit." 
Michael Finley also scored 20 points, Bruce Bowen had 16, Brent Barry scored 11 and Manu Ginobili had eight points and nine assists for the Spurs (55­16), who moved into first place in the Western Conference, one those guys are knocking shots down and making plays. That team is deep enough that it's OK. 
"If you miss Tim Duncan, then there's a difference. But you can make up Tony's 20 (points). And Finley's a starter anywhere else." 
Chris Kaman added 18 points and eight rebounds and Corey Maggette had 16 points, 11 rebounds and six assists for the Clippers (41-29), who lost for just the fourth time in 12 games and need only one victory to clinch their first winning season in 15 yeas. 
Sam Cassell was held to eight points and seven assists. 
"It was a little disappointing," Brand said of the Clippers' per­formance. "We built some confi­dence playing against this team. We felt like we should have won up at their place and lost in over­time, then we beat them pretty handily here, and with their full complement _ Tony Parker, Ginobili, Duncan, everybody. 
"But they played pretty well tonight. They made shots and we didn't. We didn't take it onto the court, and they got easy layups and easy shots." 
The Spurs shot 36-of-73 (49 percent) including 10-of-25 from 3-point range, while the Clippers went 28-of-74 (38 percent) including 1-of-1 0 from beyond the arc. 
"Good win for us against a very good team," Popovich said. "We needed to get back to who we 
On the 75th Anniversary of the Death of Knute Rockne The Notre Dame Athletics Department Presents "Knute Rockne and His Fighting Irish" A 52-minute Video Documentary Showings at 3:00, 4:00, 5:00 and 6:00p.m. Friday March 31, 2006 Hesburgh Library Auditorium Admission is Free 
game ahead of Dallas. are and what our personality is. I 
The Spurs won for the seventh thought we did that tonight." time in nine games despite the Popovich referred to the solid absence of leading scorer Tony defense his team played, some­
Parker, who sat out because of a thing he hasn't seen for the past sore right shin. He was injured 
few weeks. Sunday night during a 106-102 loss in Seattle, when he was accidentally kicked. 
"It's really sore," Popovich said. "He can't push off or put Offeringany weight on it." aRortlable 
Popovich said Parker might be flying lessons available Thursday night when from South Bend 
Regional Airport
the Spurs play the Lakers. 
"Tony's a really good player, but their offense is so easy to run," Clippers guard Cuttino Mobley said. "You dribble it down, you give it to Tim, and 
Radical Encounters: Finding and Forming Community 
A summer course on religion and community with a one-week residency at Mt. Saviour Monastery, Elmira, N.Y. May 31-June 8, 2006 
At the residency, study historic communities, visit living communities in a variety of faith traditions, form a co-ed, ecumenical community of students and faculty from several colleges. (Up to three college credits possible.) 
For a full prospectus and further information, contact: Gail Mandell, Humanistic Studies Saint Mary's College 220 Madeleva Hall 574-284-4465 or 574-277-4918 gmandell@ saintmarys.edu 

CONSULTING 
GROUP 

Domers Wanted 
IBB Consulting Group, the leading boutique Strategy and Technology Consulting Firm focused on Convergence issues in Cable, Broadband and Wireless industries is looking for Undergrad Seniors and 2-year MBA candidates. Strong technology industry interest is a must. No minimum GPA required. 
Relocation to Philadelphia preferred. 
Please send cover letter and CV's to Michael Wong (Class of 1996) at michaelw@ibbconsulting.com 

page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, March 29, 2006 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles face strong Hope team today 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Spores Writer 
Af'tnr a promising start in MIAA play, Saint Mary's will faen a rnal eonfnn1nen test whon it matdws up against llopo today at 3 p.m. 
Tho Bollns are coming off a wnnknnd in whieh they went 1-1. improving tlwir rneord to h-4 (2-0). Thny defnatnd eon­foroneo momlwr Adrian but lost to non-ronfnrenee foo Aquinas. Saint Mary's is look­ing to win its third eonfernnee match, whirh would alroady oqual its eonfnrPncn win total from last soason. 
"A win this WllnkPrHI would rnally hnlp tho loam's eonfi­dnnen," Bt>llns hoad eoaeh Dee Stclvonson said. "It would rnaff'irm in thoir own minds that they are among the best. not just in tho eonfnrnnee but out of confnrmu·n as well." 
A tough llopn team, howev­or. stands in Saint Mary's path. llopn finishnd second in tho MIAA last snason. and thny have won thrPn straight matehns heading into their clash with Saint Mary's. While admitting his team will be challenged today, Stevenson is optimistic about his team's ehanees. 

"They're definitely one of the better teams in the confer­enee," Stevenson said. "They are year in and year out, but that's not to say that wn can't compete with them. Last ynar's match !that Saint Mary's lost 5-41 could have gone either way, and it will pr.obably.. be a similar match thrs ynar. 
Thn Belles are also hoping that they will finally be able to field thnir bost team when the two teams meet today. Due to eithor sickness or injury, Saint Mary has not played a match this season with all their best playnrs eompnting. 
Hegardless of which players end up able to eompete, Stevenson has emphasized the importance of today's match. 
''I've been stressing to the girls that if they want to eom­petn in conference, they have to be able to compete with teams likn Hope," hn said. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
MLB 

Cubs place Prior and Wood on disabled list 
Associated Press 
Mark Prior and Knrry Wood wont on the 15-day disabled list Tuesday along with the hopes of many Chicago Cubs fans. 
Neither move came as a sur­prise, as both have been rehab­bing from injuries. 
"We knew neither one of them would be ready for open­ing day," Cubs general manag­er Jim llondry said. "Mark has been throwing again and has had no discomfort. Woody has been very, very good." 
Prior, who has not pitched in a spring training game, has a strained muscle in the right shoulder. Wood had arthro­scopic surgery on his right knen this month to repair a minor cartilage tear. lie began throwing shortly after that. He threw 60 pitches from a bullpen mound earlier this week. 
Also at Cubs' camp in Mesa, Ariz., Marquis Grissom announced his retirement after a 17 -year major league eareer. 

The 38-year-old outfielder signed a minor league contract in January and had hoped to make the team as a backup. But he batted just .200 in 17 spring training games. 
"It's been a pretty fun ride along the way," Grissom said. "I came into spring training to this organization to really see if I could go out and play baseball again for another year. And I got that opportunity from the Cubs. It didn't work out. Over a period of the last two, three weeks, I've been going in and out, strength-wise, body-wise emotionally, whether I wanted to do it, could I do it." 
Also, Kansas City claimed infielder Tony Graffanino off waivers from Boston, returning him to the team that traded him to the Red Sox eight months ago. 
Vandy 
continued from page 28 

over Anastasia Kugakolova. Other players contributing to the team's depth are Taka Bertrand and Amanda Taylor. Bertrand defeated Martina Banikova 6-1, 6-3 at No. 2. Taylor followed the win with a 3-6, 7-6 (5), 1-0 (13) victory over Renee Joseph. 
However, the Irish are trying not to focus on winning streaks or rankings. 
"We have taken every match one at a time this season and not been caught up in anyone's rankings,'' freshman Kelcy Tefft said. "Vanderbilt definite­ly has a great team, so we are hoping we play our best ten­nis." 
The Irish have not lost a doubles point this entire sea­son, and they enter the match with two ranked doubles teams. 
The No. 3 pairing of Catrina and Christian Thompson leads Notre Dame in doubles, fol­lowed by the No. 29 twosome of Tell't and sophomore Brook Buck. 

"We have had an awesome year in doubles and are hoping we dnn't drop the point this whole season,'" Catrina Thompson said. "If one team has an off day, we have two others that give our opponents dilTicult doubles matches." 
In singles, No. 30 Catrina Thompson leads the team at No. 1 and holds an 11-3 record in duals matches this season. She is followed by No. 74 Christian Thompson, who had dilTiculties dosing out her last match against Iowa's Hillary Mintz. 
Following its match against Vanderbilt, Notre Dame will return home to play Eastern Michigan on Friday. 
"It will bn nice being able to play at home again after being on the road during spring break and facing tough home crowds at schools likn Texas A&M," Tefft said. "So we will definitely take advantage lol' that] when we face Eastern Michigan." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 


International Festival Week 06' 
:Jvtarcli 26tli-)llprif1st 
Schedule of Events: 
'www.nd.edu/ rvissa/festival.htm 
Sponsot:ed by: ISSA * NDFS * HIU'Xl!'l'les Booksto,. * Hesbu.:gh U.bru:y *SUB* Srute Museut'll. ofArt* DPAC * ILS * Cunpus Minist:t:y * SIBC *African Student Association* AAA * OLA * Fischer-O'Hau Gt""" Residences* GSU * ITT* ND Muslim Association* Indian Student Association* La Alianza * Le Ce,..Je Frd.tlf.'sise * Itilian Club •Kellogg Institute 

Wednesday, March 29, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
Bears 
continued from page 28 
house." 
Notre Dame hopes its return to the Dome will help it pre­pare mentally for a team with a record that may conceal its talent. 
"They're a very good team," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. "They haven't gotten a lot of wins thus far, but they haven't not been in any games this year. We've seen video of their games this year, and they've played very good games better." 
Corrigan is confident his team can win at the highest level if it plays a mistake.-free game and execute the bare fundamentals of lacrosse from start to finish. 
"I don't think we need to do anything differently," Corrigan said. "We need to do things consistently. That's been our biggest challenge this year. We haven't continued to exe­cute for 60 minutes the way we need to. We haven't put together the 60 minutes on both sides of the ball." 
Driscoll believes the Irish 
are close to mak­
ing that jump. 
and stayed right '7 don •t think we "We watched with [their oppo­film and saw that
need to do anything

nents]." we made some 
Three of the differently. We need simple mistakes," Bears' four losses to do things Driscoll said. have come by four consistently.,, "Coach has told us goals or fewer, that Brown runs including two­the same style of point losses to No. Kevin Corrigan offense as us, and 18 University of Irish coach it's all about exe-
Maryland­Baltimore County and last Saturday to Ohio State. They also lost to No. 7 Massachusetts 13-9 in a game in which they trailed by two midway through the fourth quarter. 
"This is a statement game for us, coming off a bad loss, to come back and get back on our feet," Driscoll said. "We've seen the type of offense they run all year in practice. We have to play a full game and play with the potential I know our team has, and we can run with any­one." 
If Notre Dame's effort at practice Monday is indicative of how the team will respond in today's game, Corrigan expects the Irish to be fully recovered from Saturday's loss. 
"[The) guys came out and had a great practice [Monday]." Corrigan said. "They came out and compet­ed. That's all you can ask ­that's how you get better. We have to take what we can learn from the last game and expect to come out and play 
cution." 
Though Corrigan said soph­omore midfielder Mike Podgajny will not be ready to play a full game, he will see action as he continues to recover from mononucleosis. 
The Irish will also be with­out sophomore face-off spe­cialist Taylor Clagett, who is recovering from a shoulder injury. 
Clagett's absence Saturday critically hurt the Irish, as they lost 16 of the game's 22 face-offs and struggled to gain possession of the ball all day, managing just five goals. 
Senior backup Steve Panos will make his third straight start at face-off for the Irish. After winning 9-12 against Bellarmine, Panos managed 2-15 against Hofstra, as he split time with sophomore Sean Dougherty. 
"We'll continue to look for answers there," Corrigan said. "Steve has had one real good game and one where he struggled. We'll start with Steve and go from there." 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S SOFTBALL 
Irish prepared for hotne opener 
Notre Dame to play in first game at Ivy Field 24 games into season 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
After starting the season with 23 consecutive road games, the Irish (13-1 0) finally take the field at Notre Dame, playing their home opener against Bowling Green (17 -8) today at 5 p.m. 
The Irish are coming off arguably their best day of the season so far, having swept a doubleheader against Western Michigan last weekend. Not only did Notre Dame win both games, but won both in very dif­ferent, yet equally dramatic fashions. The combined no-hit­ter thrown by Heather Booth and Kenya Fuemmeler in the first game and ·the eight-inning, 2-1 victory in game two showed Notre Dame's ability to win tough games. 
Notre Dame head coach Deanna Gumpf hopes to take this weekend's game and use it as motivation for her team against Bowling Green. 
"I hope we can use the momentum from the weekend, but three days is a long time for softball," Gumpf said. 
Bowling Green has had an impressive start so far this year, having already beaten No. 13 Washington earlier in the sea­son. Going into Tuesday night's matchup with defending cham­pion Michigan, Bowling Green has a seven-game win streak, including five shutouts. 
Gumpf recognized the need for her team to be at their absolute best in this game, play­ing against one of the strongest Bowling Green teams in recent memory. 
Although they have been strong defensively all season, the Irish will look to wake up their bats, as Notre Dame bat­ters reached base safely only seven times in eight innings against Western Michigan. 
The Falcons have a lineup that could challenge the Irish pitch­ing staff. Bowling Green has three starting players hitting over .300 for the year, the most fearsome of whom is third base­man Gina Rango, the Bowling Green cleanup hitter currently batting .392 with a .662 slug­ging percentage. 
Senior Heather Booth and freshman Brittney Bargar will most likely split the game against this potent lineup. While Booth has a 6-7 record, she owns a 1.70 ERA and a 1.23 WHIP (walks and hits per innings pitched). Bargar has been a very consistent pitcher this year, winning seven of her first ten starts in her Irish career. 

The Irish are 14-3 all-time in season home openers, and have beaten Bowling Green in six of their last seven meetings. More importantly, the Irish know they thrive on intensity -something that has propelled them to every one of their victories so far this year. 
"They [the team]. knows they need to keep their intensity high because when we don't play with intensity, we don't win," Gumpfsaid. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

Tuesdag, march c8@ S:OSptn 
. · vs, Valparaiso Wednesd~y, march c, @ S:OSptn 
VS, Western michigan free .ftdtnission for Students 
SHORT ON FlEX POINTSilil 
~ WIN 200 DOMER DOllARS 
~~~ ., ~ AlSO, THE FIST 200 FANS RECEIVE AN IRISH SORBAll GlASS SPONSORED BY: 
FACUlTY/STAFFDAY 
WIN ABaR-B-QuE FOR 25 PioPLE 
FIRST200 FANS RECEIVE ASPORT 
IOTILE 
FIRST200 FANS RECEIVE A..GOlD GAMES" 
SHIRT 

WIN ARIGHT 
FOR2TO ORlANDO ON 
AllEGIANT AIR 

page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, March 29, 2006 
Freshmen Brett Graffy, David need them down the line around the order in the sec­Notre Dame has outscored 
Phelps and Sam Elam threw we're not all of a sudden ond inning and left the frame opponents 22-5 in the first
Shutout 


ThinkPad" recommends Microsoft' Windows' XP Professional 
ThinkPad leno11o 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
LENOVO AND THE NOTRE DAME
WNOTREDAME 
COMPUTER STORE TEAM UP TO BRING YOU GREAT SAVINGS ON THINKPADS 
SAVE UP TO 37% OFF 
PERSONAL PURCHASES AND PC ACCESSORIES 
free shipping with all online orders 
As part of the Notre Dame student, faculty or staff community, you can take advantage of great savings on legendary ThinkPad notebooks and PC accessories.
Thinkrad 
ThinkCentre 
Personal Purchases 
To take advantage of these special offers and more, click or call 
http://oit.nd. edu/store/
Thinkvantagelm:nnolr;gies 
631-7747 

ThinkPad is a product of lenovo
lllinkVantageUUS!(Jf! ThinkPIUS.4lCCSSUf'~S ThinkPtusSm1VIC8S 
continued from page 28 
tonight," Irish head coach Paul Mainieri said of his rook­ie aces. 
Sophomore David Gruener started the game on the mound for the Irish, before being relieved after three innings of one hit, one walk, three-strikeout work. 

with an 8-0 lead. Senior cen­
terfielder Alex Nettey collect­
ed his 1 OOth career hit and 
senior left fielder Matt 
Bransfield sent home his 
1OOth career RBI in the seven­
run deluge. 

Shortstop Greg Lopez laid down a bunt with two men on base to score Nettey from third for the 2-0 advantage to open the floodgates. After a Cody Rizzo 11y out, third base­man Brett Lilley singled in Dury -who had reached base on a double down the right field line -on a line shot to right for the 3-0 lead. 
A Danny Dressman RBI sin­gle was followed immediately with a Jeremy Barnes HBI double to left centerfield to put the Irish up 5-0. Bransfield plated a run with a sacrifice 11y and was followed by consecutive HBI singles by Hoss Brezovsky and Nettey to round out the inning at 8-0. Nettey was 2-for-4 with two HBis and one run on the game. 
"It was good to see some guys come through with some real clutch hitting, and I think we showed that we are capa­ble of being a good offensive team," Mainieri said of the lively bats. "When everybody is clicking and everybody is swinging the bats the way that they can, we can· back this up now with tomorrow's game and do it through the week." 
The Irish opened the first inning with a run off a Bransfield single to right cen­terfield and Barnes on second. It was the sixth consecutive game in which the Irish have scored a first-inning run. 
frame this season. 
"In all honesty, with us not being a home run-hitting team by scoring early in the game and taking the lead, it allows us to use a squeeze bunt early there in the game -we hit and ran a couple of times," Mainieri said. "We have to try to manufacture some runs because we don't have an enormous amount of power in our lineup." 
Notre Dame scored again in the sixth inning on a single to centerfield by Eddie Smith, who filled in at second base for Brezovsky. 
A three-run eighth on Crusader sophomore hurler Aaron Hank rounded out the Irish tally. Smith and Nettey took consecutive walks a Dury was hit by a pitch -all with the bases loaded -sending three runners home for the 12-0 final. Freshman Eddie Mendiola and sophomore Chris Soriano were sent home by the walks after reaching base on back-to-back line drive singles, and Bransfield was walked home after he reached his base on balls. 
"If they're hitting it, I'd rather have them hitting it than us walking them ­whieh happened when we allowed a sophomore to come in at the very end so we could give him an inning." Valparaiso lwad eoach Paul Twenge said. 
The Irish are in action again today against Western Michigan in a 5:05 p.m. game at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 
five innings -two innings each for Graffy and Phelps, one for Elam -before junior Mike Dury closed out a 10­pitch, hitless ninth. 
"It played out exactly as we had hoped," Mainieri said of the pitching workload. "We have two mid-week games. This is when these young pitchers have to get the expe­rience so that when we really throwing them out there for the first time." 
Valparaiso (2-13) managed only two innings from starter Dallas Cawiezell ~eight hits, six earned runs, one strike­out) before turning the ball over to a platoon of four relievers, who allowed four hits and four runs in seven innings of work. 
The Irish hitters batted 
Warranty: For acopy of applicable product warranties, write to: Warranty Information, P.O. Box 12195, RTP. NC. 27709. Attn: Dept JDJA/8203. Certain IBM aM ThinkPad logo products: are not manufactured, warranted or supported by IBM or Lenovo. IBM and Lenovo logos and trademarks used under license Contact lenovo for details. Trademarks: The following are trademarks of Lenovo:. ThinkPad and ThinkGentre. IBM and the IBM logo are registered trademarks of IBM and are used under license. Other company. school, product and service names may be trademarks or . service marks of other companies. @2006 Lenovo. All nghts reserved. Visit www.lonovo.com/Safecomputing periodically for tho latest information on safe and effective computing. 

Wednesday, March 29, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 
Fr. Jenkins, the nickname 
' 

No Bodygu.vd!> Ir•ish" is a racist blight on the No Problem. economy of Ireland. We'll wr•ite #of Days since last angry Viewpoint letters until you choose a new name whoch reflects our rich cultural history. 
ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 
Ht.Rt.'s 'jOUR. r-lo\JE:.L"i'j·

'fOu'vE ~Si \A'1"T~RE.b
'jE.A.\-1, I MEAT'l, WCNJ ... 
(ONGf\A\u­

"THE. \O,OOO"~'.!:! !NS"T S\Z.E. t:> CHC.<.."-. \ C:toTfA
IHA.T SIE.PA.t-l CENI€. R, 

\)\1loNS! (;n) AC.~oSS C.i>-MPuS NDNoF SiE:.PAr-l C.E:.NTE:.~
UuL~. 1\ LOO\<S 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
JJWJMJ1311~. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
EVERF 
t 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
DORBO j
I I r (] 
RETINE 
WHY THE: BL-OND NE:WSC.A-5TE:R
[IJ 
MOOE:RATE:O
www.jumble.com 

THe: Oe:BA-TE:. WELDIM 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
rI J [ J 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer:[ I I I I ]THEl I I I] 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: GLOAT WEDGE BAUBLE EXEMPT Answer: The running shoe company hired the sprinter to-GET ALEG UP 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 34 Fisherman's 57 Portion for story Mother
Handball Hubbard's dog 

playing surface 35 Forward-thinking 58 Make jaws drop 
5 Regions 

38 Sea bird 59 Hardly nail-biters t;;;;--+---t-+-­
10 Happy 39 Spanish 60 Glasses, slangily 
14 Cranjal bulb? newspaper El
15 Certain tribute DOWN
40 Pressed

16 & 17 One in a 
1 Kind ofmillion 41 MGM motto connection for word18 No ordinary travelingjoe? 

42 Procter and computer users 20 How to color Gamble 
2 Tennis score neatly shampoo 
after deuce 22 Notable Dumbo 43 Choir section 
3 Camera's eye 
features 

44 Actress Jillian 4 Lothario 23 Was in the van 
45 Fall sound 5 Gun suppliers 24 Drives out of 
46 Irrelevant 6 Unseen parts 
bed 7 With 25-Down,
53 Manager with 27 B, gradewise what couples scientific

29 "The _, the have
expertiseproud, the a Stadium inMarines" 54 Fan sound 

Queens 32 "Hey, don't you 55 Unvarnished 
9 Best Actor/ recognize this 
56 John who wrote Originalvoice?!" 

''Ten North Screenplay 30 Glass eel 43 Some sorority 49 Transport for a 33 Long, long time Frederick" nominee of 1976 women short distance 
31 Gardeners' bane 10 Thou 44 Drained of color 50 24-hr. breakfast
33 Way off 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
11 Pushing place
45 Choreographer
-:-T=-r-::-r::::-1 midnight, say 34 Rejections 

51 Excellent 12 Song and 36 McKinley policy gymnastics dance? for China 46 Thump score 
Twyla 

13 Grade above ef 37 Prepare to play 47 Neutral color 52 Fearsome dino • 19 Dissembled and 
42 1957 Nabokov 48 Say the same 53 Atlanta-based then some novel thing as channel 21 Saw 
~-:-t-:':-11•• "'!'"'-i.:t=r:-1r:-rl 24 Calf catcher For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a ,...-::+7+.::+.-,;.ptl!~ ..,:-:+~=+:-:+::-! 25 See 7 -Down credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
t-::::"'h::-ir.--t-:-t-:-i• 27 "See?" 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young -solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address City ______________________ State· ______ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Julia Stiles, 25; Reba McEntire, 51; Vince Vaughn, 36; Ken Howard, 62 
Happy Birthday: Lean toward projects and people that are more creative and you will do well this year. This is a year that requires consistent hard work. Your numbers are 13, 19, 24, 32, 36, 48 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): You've got the staying power if you can only focus on what you have to do. Emotional matters may play on your subconscious, making things difficult. A chance to make some money through investment is apparent. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Someone around you is not on your side. Don't be fooled by a fast talker. Deal with matters that involve institutions and you will get satisfactory results. A change at home will be to your benefit. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): On the one hand, you should be able to make progress in business but, if emotions enter the picture, you will be inclined to make the wrong choice. Think with your head, not with your heart. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't become too confident. Although things are panning out quite nicely, you can expect something to go wrong. Don't be fooled by someone who is aggressively pursuing you for business or personal reasons. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You've got everything and everyone in place, so what are you waiting for. Seize the moment and go after what you want. Don't be tempted by someone who is overindulgent. Protect yourself and forge into the future with optimism. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't take anything for granted. When you least expect it, someone will pull a fast one and leave you to pick up the pieces. It's vital that you speak up and correct whatever you feel is wrong. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You are going through another question period --not sure which 'way to tum and changing your mind constantly. Don't worry too much ., about it. You need more time and there is nothing wrong with that. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Aggressive action will pay off. Don't take no for 
an answer and, if you have to do the work yourself, do so. This is a perfect day to make changes and to choose alternative routes that are good for you. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): You can make a financial move that will ensure future profits. Don't worry too much about what others do or say. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Think outside the box and you will da?...zle the people you work with. Money can be made, jobs changed and opportunities taken 
advantage of ifyou are quick to react to a proposal or offer. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may be vulnerable to someone's attention or 
compliments. Keep your wits about you and don't succumb to someone promising you the world. Size the situation up and make demands or move on. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Nothing will get done ifyou become emotional 
about the little things in your personal life. You have to let things unfold naturally 
and avoid readim> mort" into the situation than actuallv exists. 1 stars 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 


THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, March 29, 2006 
page 28 
BASEBALL 
Five pitchers scatter three hits in shutout 
By KYLE CASSI LY Sports Writer 
A seven-run second-inning nxplosion -the second con­secutive homn game with seven men plated in one frame -and a three-hit shutout propelled Notre Dame over Valparaiso 12-0 on Tuesday night at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Tlw Irish (13-8) collected 13 hits -seven in the second inning alone -and got behind a planned rotation of five young hurlers -three freshman, one sophomore and a junior -to scatter the three Crusadnr hits in sepa­rate innings. It was the fewest hits Notre Dame has allowed in a game since a 21-1 victory over Pittsburgh on May 16, 2005. 
"The key of the game today was really the outstanding pitching, really the kiddie corps was out there throwing 
see SHUTOUT/page 26 

Bombs away 

MEN'S lACROSSE 

ND returns ho111e to face Brovvn 
By TIM DOUGHERTY 
Spons Writer 
Corning ofT their most lop­sided loss in four years, the Irish are hungry for a win. 
Notre Dame (4-2) will have its long sticks ready to go hear hunting as it invites the

.. 
Brown Bears (2-4) to Moose Krause Stadium today for the l'irst meeting bdwoen the two s<:lwols. 
No. I I Notre Damn returns fr·orn a thrne ganw road trip that startPd 2-0 hut ended in a I]-5 route at No. 4 Hofstra -the worst ddeat for the

< 
II' is h s i n c n t lw I' r id e b n at tlwm 15-5 in 2002. 
Arter playing in front of a hostiln crowd of 4.:~63 at llofst.ra, the Irish are rnfo­rusml and eager to weleome the Bears to their neck of the woods. 
"llofstra is such an intensn atrnosphnrn," snnior defense­man and eo-captain D.J. Driscoll said. "It's definitnly ni1:n to sleep in your own bnd, but now this is our field. They'rn corning into our 
see BEARS/page 25 


ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish ready for strong Vandy foe 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sporrs Writer 
The Irish have proven them­selves as one of the nation's top programs after remaining undefeated 16 matches into the season. However, Notre Dame will still face competition today as it heads back to the road to face No. 11 Vanderbilt. 
"We have both had really great seasons and Iwe I know they have a strong lineup," jun­ior Catrina Thompson said. "Every match is going to be a big one. It's going to come down to who competes the best." 
Under the leadership of jun­ior Amanda Fish, the Commodores (15-2) are coming off their third SEC sweep after topping Mississippi State 7-0 in Starkville. After Vanderbilt swept the doubles point, Fish followed with a 6-1, 6-1 win 
see VANDY/page 24 
FooTBALL 

Zbikowski to fight pro debut at MSG 
ment with Bob Arum of Top Hank 
Irish safety's decision· 
Promotions that would havn the third team All-American light
won't affect eligibility 
three times within 12 months. In an e-mail to members of the media, Notre Dame assistant
By KEN FOWLER sports information director Alan 

Sports Editor 

Wasielewski said there would bn 
no offieial comment from the ath­
Irish rising senior Tom letic department before the press Zbikowski will announce at an conference. 
11:15 a.m. press conference "There will be no reaction to today in New York City that he the Chicago Sun-Times story on will make his professional boxing Tom Zbikowski from the Notrn debut June 10 at Madison Square Dame li10tball pro~-,rram until the Garden, ESPN.com reported issue discussed in the article Tuesday. becomes official," Wasinlnwski 
His father, Ed Zbikowski, told said in the e-mail. the Associated Press the four­The WBO junior welterweight round light will not jeopardize title light between Miguel Cotto his son's NCAA football eligibility. and Paul Malignaggi will be the 
Zbikowski, Notre Dame's start­headline bout the night ing strong safety and punt Zbikowski fights, the AP and returner was unavailable for Sun-Times reported. The Sun­comment Tuesday, as was Irish Times artiele said Zbikowski's head coach Charlie Weis. fight would bn included on IIBO's 
The Chicago Sun-Times first pay-per-view coverage of the reported Zbikowski's deeision to event. fight professionally Tuesday morning. The Sun-Times report­Contact Ken Fowler at ed Zbikowski will sign an agree-kfowler 1 @nd.edu 


NO SOFTBALL SMC TENNIS IRL NCAA BASKETBAlL NBA NBA 
The Irish look for-The Belles anticipate a Team Rahal Letterman UNC 75 Milwaukee 132 Seattle 98 
ward to their home tough test from confer-will not participate in Tennessee 63 Phoenix 110 Memphis 97 
opener against Bowling ence rival Hope. the Toyota 300. The Lady Tar Heels Charlie Bell has first Ray Allen hits a 
Green. get to the Final Four career triple-double to buzzer beater for· thanks to 20 points from lead Bucks to a win. the victory. Ivory Latta. 
page 25 page 24 page 20 page 19 page 18 page 18 








