
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
STUDENT SENATE 

Jenkins fields academic freedom questions 
By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Ediror 

Univorsity Prosidont Father .John .Jnnkins diseussed "The Vagina Monologuns" and broad1~r iSSlWS or gnnder and snxuality with senators at a special snssion or Student Snnatn Friday af"tPrnoon in thn <iold Boom or North Dining llall -anothnr chaptnr in the unrnsolved campus dnbatn ovnr acadnmic rrnndom and Notn~ l>anw's Catholic charac­tnr. 
.Jnnkins, aeeompanind by l~xncutivP Assistant to tlw Prnsidnnt l."ranens Shavers, d«>livnrnd brinr pndiminary rnnmrks bnrorn tnlling snnators lw was "all nars." 
Student Body President Dave Baron and Student Body Vice President Lizzi Shappell listen to see SENATE/page 6 University President Father John Jenkins respond to senators' questions Friday in North Dining Hall. 

White encourages leadership, diversity at SMC 
or ethnicity -even this gray­haired white guy-must study their way of leadership and learn from their example," White said. 
According to White, Parks is remembered in national folk­lore as a tired seamstress who refused to give up her bus seat to a white man and was subse­quently arrested. llowever, she was not just physieally weary, White said, and it is important to note exactly what Parks was really tired of-oppression. 
King, though emblazoned in the public mind as the !-,Tfieving window at her famous hus­band's funeral, was also a strong leader in her own right, Whitn said. 
"Coretta Scott King's opposi­tion to the war in Vietnam 
see DSLC/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Kindtvvins SMC class election 
Goeppinger's ticket loses by seven votes 
By KELLY MEEHAN A~sistant News Editor 
The Saint Mary's class of 2007 executive board nine­lion, marked by intense cam­paigns and a rare runoff votn, came to an nnd Friday in similar dramatic fashion. 
President-nlm:t Kat Kindt and her ticket of vil:n-prnsident­eled Mnghan Mackinnon, sec­retary-elect Erica Antonucci and treasurer-elect Laura Baumgartner won by a nwr·n seven votes. 
Neitlwr Kindt nor the oppos­ing Heidi Goeppinger had secured the 51 percent majority requirnd for victory during the Feb. 27 primary election. Gonppingnr's ticket received 50.23 percent of tho votes, while Kindt's ticket received 46.12 percent. As a result, both tickets were per­mitted to re-campaign Tuesday for Wednesday's run-off election. 
Goeppingnr, who currently serves as junior elass prnsi­dent, said campaigning for the runoff election was diiTi­eult sinen it eoindded wit.h tho elass' pride wnek. 
"My primary responsibility was to our junior board and to our elass, to make sun~ the events during the week were successful." she said. "Also, due to the faet thn othnr tieket was on board, it was difl"icult for nw to cam­paign against them and work with them at tho same timn." 
see KINDT/page 4 


By MEGAN O'NEIL Saint Mary's Editor 
At the dosing dinner of the Saint Mary's Student Diversity Board (SDB) Diverse Students Leadership Confernnce (DSLC), Vice President and Dean of Faculty Pat White encouraged attendees to turn to people such as Hosa Parks and Coretta Scott King as examples of strong leaders. 
Whito said he did not invoke their names simply because tlu~y wern black women, although that fact played an important role in shaping their leadership styles. 
"I eall our attention to Hosa Parks and Coretta Scott King as American leaders and American heroes because all of us, whatever our race, gender 



Donors recognized over weekend 
University benefactors gather on campus, interact with students 
By MARY KATE MALONE Assistant News Ediror 

This wnnknnd's Scholarship Fnllowship Wnnknnd welcomed more than 250 University bene­factors to eampus from around tho nation li1r two days of exdu­sive tours, speeches by high­ranking University ollidals and studnnt testimonials. 
Thn recognition weekend hon­on~d donors who together have given morn than $16.5 million to University scholarships, fellow­ships and granL-; in aid. 
"The big highlight of the recognition weekend for our guests is always the ehance for them to get to know some of the students studying under their benefaction," said Vice President for University Helations Louis Nanni in a press release. ''I'm not sure who enjoys these meetings more, our students or our donors." 
On Saturday the University invited bmwfactors to a panel discussion featuring University Provost Thomas Burish and Associate Provost Dennis Jacobs. 
'1\vo under!-,rraduates and one graduate student sat on the panel as well, sharing their vast­ly different academic experi­ences at Notre Dame to a full audience in McKenna auditori­um. 
Seniors Peter Quaranto and 
Alicia Lachiondo spoke about the role experiential and service learning played in their Notre Dame education. 
"We want all of our students to engage in service," Burish said. "Almost all are engaged in giving back to the community in some way. By service learning we take those experiences and bring them baek into the dass­room to learn from them and learn how to inl"luence the world." 
Burish told donors their con­tributions gave two gifts-mon­etary aid and "a lifelong bond" between the donor, the scholar­ship and the person who 
see DONORS/page 4 


· Big East bid gives Irish hoops fans more hope 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
Assisrant News Editor 
After a frustrating regular season, Notre Dame fans found another reason to sup­port their men's basketball team after Saturday's win against DePaul propelled the Irish into the Big East Tournament. On campus, stu­dents lauded the outcome to the team's precipitous jour­ney towards a Big East bid, but predictions of the team's success in the tournament remain mixed. 
Freshman Chase Smerdzinski contrasted Saturday's game to 
many others throughout thn season. 
''I'm definitely excited," he said. "It's definitely niee to win a close game after so many tough losses." 
Smerdzinski applauded the student fans who attended the DePaul game, saying he was "pumped" to sen so many students enthusiastic about the game. 
Sophomore Amelia Ulmer, a member of the basketball band, was also glad to see a win after witnessing so many nailbiting losses. 
"It was niee to see them 
see BIG EAST/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, March 6, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Follo-wing m.y dad's advice 
It was Christmas break freshman year when all of this started. 
I had written for The Observer during the fall-covering inter hall football­but didn't feel like doing any writing after that finished. I was more interested in hanging around the dorm during my first semester at ND ­doing a little home­work, eating quarter dogs and heading over to TC with my buddies on the week­ends. College was relaxing and free ... but I wasn't doing much. 
It was on a run with my dad during that Christmas vacation that he gave me some of the best advice I've ever received-get involved. 
I'd waited my whole life to go to Notre Dame, he reminded me, and it would be a shame if I didn't at least do something with my time there. 
I went back to South Bend that January and signed up to work layout at the paper once a week. Today, after two years that sailed by in what feels like two minutes, I'm taking over as Editor in Chief of The Observer. 
My dad never told me during that December jog that I should spend 30 hours a week below South Dining Hall checking pages and calling writers -he just recommended I do more with my four years at NO than simply play DDR and drink beer. 
If I had known that this paper would take up more of my time than I would like, I might never have signed up to work in the first place. 
But I'm lucky I did. 
I am lucky to have made friends that I never would have known were it not for The Observer. 
Some I see for 10 minutes a week. Some I say hi to every morning when I walk into the office with my lunch to work on a story. And some I talk to every day and spend Saturday nights in April with chat­ting at Nick's Patio over eggs benedict. 
I am also lucky to work with a staff of about 150 people who give at least a part of themselves to this paper. 
Some work for just an hour or two writ­ing one short article a week. Some dream up a new cartoon every day. Some sit in the back of The Observer's office reading stories until two in the morning. Some go to Debartolo 101 on a Wednesday night to photograph a lecture. 
No matter who they are, I know that everybody at The '0' is proud when they walk into LaFortune on a Friday after­noon and see the paper in everyone's hands. 
The Observer has become a large part of Notre Dame since its beginning 40 years ago -and my biggest challenge over the next year will be to make sure it remains an integral piece of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's campus life. 
But with the people working here right now, I have no doubt the paper will be fine. 
Growing up with two little sisters and no brother, I spent a lot of time with my dad -iffor no other reason than we were the only people in my house who didn't watch E.R. 
The two of us talked about a lot over the last 21 years-with topics ranging from who should have won the 1995 Heisman Trophy (Tommie Frazer) to when I had to be home on New Year's Eve as a high school sophomore (too early) to whether Paul Simon was better solo or with Garfunkel (solo). 
But I never learned more from a con­versation than I did on that jog over Christmas break. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOUR PLANS FOR SPRING BREAK? 





Dennise Bayona 
freshman Walsh 
'Tm going home-and it happens to be Miami, Florida." 


Marissa Najera 
sophomore Lyons 
'Tm going home to Minnesota, even though it's probably even colder than 
Kerri Dugan 
freshman Lyons 
'Tm visiting friends at other colleges, even though Saint Patrick's Day 

here." there won't be 
halfas good as it would be here." 
IN BRIEF 

A conference titled "Reading Between the Lines: Scripture and Community in the Dead Sea Scrolls" will take place at 
10:30 a.m. today in the McKenna Hall auditorium. 
A special Mass sponsored by Best Buddies will be held today from 5:15 to 6:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. The Mass will be dedi­cated to honoring people in the community with disabili­ties and is part of Notre Dame Disability Awareness Month. 
Best Buddies will sponsor a perspectives discussion panel at Reekers from 8 p.m. to 9:30 tonight as part of Notre Dame Disability Awareness Month. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are invited to enjoy a free smoothie while listening to the panel. 
The Swing Club will host an open swing dance tonight from 8 p.m. to 10 in the LaFortune Ballroom. The event is free to all students. 
The Office of Multicultural Affairs will host speaker Margaret Montoya Tuesday from 12 p.m. to 2 in the Vander Vennet Theater in the Student Center. 
John Carr, Director of the Department of Social Develo­pment & World Peace, will speak on "Political Hesponsibility and Religion: Faithful Citizenship in the 2006 Elections" on Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Eck Visitors Center Auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 50 HIGH 54 LOW 46 LOW 44 

OFFBEAT 

Bicyclist fakes blindness 
SAN RAFAEL, Calif. -A motorist accused of blinding a bicyclist in a hit-and-run acci­dent was cleared of charges after a doctor determined the victim was faking his injury. 
James Arrigoni, 45, of San Anselmo, had been accused of swerving his pickup truck into a cyclist who made an obscene gesture with his fin­ger a year ago. 
Torrin Arnold, 26, of San Anselmo claimed he hit his head on the pavement and lost his vision. 
He appeared at Arrigoni's court hearings wearing dark glasses and using a cane, and attended Braille school and 
TODAY a= 
was given a guide dog by a San Rafael nonprofit group, said defense attorney Jim Collins. 
Prosecutor Paul Haaken­son told a Marin County Superior Court judge on Thursday that he decided to drop the charges after reviewing medical records from an ophthalmologist who determined Arnold was pre­tending to be blind. 
Park to play the classics 
HARTFORD, Conn. ­Residents of one Hartford neighborhood hope Beethoven and Mozart will help drive drug dealers and prostitutes out of a local park. 
Activists propose playing recordings of classical music in Barnard Park in hopes of annoying petty criminals so much that they'll leave. They also hope the music will make the park more pleasant for other people once it is cleaned up. 
Resident Carol Coburn said she came up with the idea after reading about similar efforts in West Palm Beach, Fla., where she said crime decreased as much as 40 percent in parks where clas­sical music was played. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
1.&.1 :I: 
~ 
1.&.1 
3: 
.... 


~ 
<C 
(,) 
0 

HIGH 34 HIGH 26 HIGH 40 HIGH 41
.... 

LOW 28 LOW 22 LOW 32 LOW 35 

Atlanta 65 I 37 Bost?n 37 I ~6 Chicago 36 I ~6 Denver 68 I 43 Houston 81 I 61 Los Angeles 63 1 48 Minneapolis 38 126 New York 41 I 28 Philadelphia 44 I 27 Phoemx 79 I 54 Seattle 50 I 42 St. Louis 54 I 29 Tampa 74 160 Washington 471 31 

Monday, March 6, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS· page 3 

ND groups hold fair to protnote 'Safe Spring Break' 
including University llealth mote that," she said. 
By RYAN SYDLIK 

Sorviees, the University This was the second year for News Writer 
Counseling Center, gender rela­tho fair. Firth said this year's 
tions, seeurity, transportation fair was an ""absolute success," 
Spring brnak might be a long and oven intnrnational studnnt citing the largo amount of peo­rnidtnrm exam week away, but services. ple that arrived as soon as it various campus groups and Firth said aspeets of spring started. ol'fiees are getting a jump on break addressed at the fair Sophomore Sarah Waller, the thn break by giv­ineludnd adviee to tobacco prevention committee ing information to students traveling prevention chair for Pillars,
"We are here to

studnnts about abroad to Latin said she was surprised to see how to enjoy it give people American coun­the number of people at the safely. information so that tries, preventing event. 
Friday's Safe "Montezuma's "It's hard to tell if you are
they can make

Spring Break Fair revenge," sexual making a difference, but even if in LaFortune good judgments." assault and rape it only makes a difference with Ballroom was part prevention, what one person, it is better than no or wnnk-long pro­to do during ear­efl'ect at all," Waller said. 
Jessica Nelson 

gram hosted by jacking attempts University staff psychologist
Pillars member

Studnnt and "the realities Carl Williams said his role at Government, of hooking up." the fair was to promote healthy Pillars and tlw 01'11en or Drug The fair also addressed issues decision-making about sexual and t\leohol ·Education. Gina in relation to aleo-activity and Firth, the Director of' Alcohol hol, such as drink­drinking. and Drug Ed ueation, said other ing and driving with "Sometimes people "We are help­events earlier in the week impaired vision gog­ing plwple to
get bogged down by
included distributing blood gles, a pledge not to slow down and aleohol eoneentration aware­drink and drive and people /merely] give it more ness cards in the dining halls blood aleohol intoxi­saying don't drink, thought," he and giving away sare spring cation awareness said. "I The I
but this is a nice
break T-shirts. information. University val­Firth also said speaker Handy In addition to way to get the point ues this lf'airl llaveson addressed students as information tables, /of safety/ across." and is putting part of safo spring break wnek the fair had fun in a large num­Wndncsday on how to party attractions such as ber of
Erin Robertson
with a plan and "how to "moektails" (fruit resources to deernasn your risk if you drinks sans aleohol), freshman help students choose to use aleohol." popeorn, a basket­make deci-
The Safe Spring Brnak Fair ball toss with beer sions." was the final event of the week. goggles, music and tropieal Sophomore Jessica Nelson Firth said its purpose was to seenery. took part in the fair as a Pillars givn students harm reduction Unlike spring break send-offs member. information to stay safe ovnr at other eolleges, however, "We are not here to make bnmk. Firth said the Spring Break Fair judgments," Nelson said. "We 
Many campus ofl'ices were did not provide condoms. are here to give people infor­prnsent at the rair to provide "Notre Dame is a Catholic mation so that they can make information about sarnty, University and we do not pro-good judgments." 

Senior Laurel Thomsen said she was attracted to the event because of the posters and frnc giveaways. However, Thomsen also said she "thought it would be valuable beeause I will be heading down south and the Mexieo stuff interested me." 
Freshman Erin Robertson also attended the event. 
"My friend mentioned she had heard about the event, and I was coming through LaFortune and heard noise," she said. 
Hobnrtson said shn nnjoyed the fair and l'olt the presentnrs put forth their inl'ormation in a positive way. 
"I think this is a really neat way to make this inl'ormational as well as run," she said. "Somntimes people get boggnd down by people ImernlyI saying don't drink, but this is a nice way to get the point lof saf1~tyl across." 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 


APPIV for 2006-2007 


Judicial Council 
President Vice-President of Elections Vice-President of Peer Advocacy Parliamentarian 


Descriptions ofthe positions can be found on the Judicial Council website at www.nd.edu/~j council. 
Applications can be picked up in the Student Government Otlice (203 LaFortune) or downloaded from the Judicial Council website. Applications are due Thursday, March 9. 
Ifyou have any questions about the positions please en1ail the Judicial Council at jcouncil@nd.edu. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, March 6, 2006 
your support, none of this would came down to extracurricular have been possible. These expe­opportunities I had here. The 
that strengthen and divide 
class unity. 
DonorsKindt 
riences are not static ... they are sheer presence of the esc on continued from page 1 address these issues at an 
Kindt said she plans to 
continued from page 1 relationships that have ripple campus swayed my decision." 
open discussion forum in 
effects that are changing our Karrie Anna Kubatko, who Kindt clinched the presi­April where students can 
receives it, anonymously or oth­world one step at a time." received her doctorate from dency when her ticket address their concerns. 
erwise. Quaranta has worked to pro­Notre Dame in environmental received 113 votes compared "I feel that our class may be 
"Tuition doesn't cover the cost mote awareness of the devasta­mineralogy in May 2005, shared to Goeppinger's 106 votes split in some aspects, but 
of an education," Burish said. tion in Uganda by co-founding her experiences working along­during the runoff election. overall that this will pass," 
"It might cover the cost of 60 or the Uganda Conflict Action side undergraduates in Goeppinger's ticket -com­she said. "Both can did ate 
70 percent of education but phi­Network. research projects. prised of vice-presidential groups had great representa­
lanthropy provides most of the Lachiondo spoke about her On Saturday afternoon bene­eandidate Christin Molnar, tion for leadership and abili­
rest. All of us have a scholar­undergraduate research on factors were allowed to tour the secretarial candidate Bridget ty." 
ship, if you will. Someone else, incidences of breast cancer Notre Dame stadium and the Gorman and treasurer candi­Goeppinger said she along 
someone we may have never screening among African Jordan I I all of Science -slated date Maggie Wickstrom­with her ticket mates are 
met, gave us the opportunity to American women -and her to open in fall 2006. At 8 p.m. had received 109 votes, but looking into ways to help the 
have an education." love of the University despite Saturday, University President three votes were deducted by class and the College commu­
Quaranto told donors about "stumbling onto the idea" of Father John Jenkins spoke at a the elections committee due nity during their senior year. 
his work in Uganda -sharing going to school at Notre Dame reeo1-,rnition dinner honoring 35 to a violation of the College's "The women on my ticket 
photos and explaining the role during her junior year of high benefactors who have given a "active campaigning" elause. are amazing and strong lead­
that Notre Dame played in pro­school. total of $5.5 ·million to Notre "One of my ticket mates fell ers and I am very proud of 
viding the opportunity for him "My ultimate decision to Dame financial aid. asleep with her away mes­them for their integrity and 
to work there. attend Notre Dame had nothing sage up reminding women to class," she said. "We are dis­
"Nowhere else but Notre to do with geography, prestige Contact Mary Kate Malone at vote for our tieket starting at appointed, but will be holding 
Dame," Quaranto said. "Without or academics -my decision. Mmalone3@nd.edu midnight," Goeppinger said. our heads high on knowing "We contested it due to the we won the first election and fact that !the message! was we will continue to work this not sent to anyone and it was year to provide our class­
approached her. Parks stopped institutions that spread their an honest mistake made in mates with a fantastic 
and briefly ehattcd with them. work to others, White said. 

DSLC 
''I'm surprised at my courage, "A<> I look around this room I They attempted to repeal Kindt's ticket said they look 
exhaustion." [year]." 

but I am also amazed at the see many women and a few
continued from page 1 
the decision, but it was not forward to planning Senior 
generosity of her spirit," White men who are taking up the appealed since the away mes­Dad's weekend, an ovarian 
said. legaey of these two great lead­sage was printed off and cancer walk and the senior 
came early and strong, earlier White then gave his own defi­ers," White said. "I see in this turned in as evidence of the class formal. 
than [Martin Luther King's]," nition of a leader -saying a College a new commitment to violation, Goeppinger said. Mackinnon, the vice-presi­
White said. "In a speech at a leader is a student, someone diversity in every aspect of our Kindt said her ticket also dent elect, said she wants to 
rally in November 1966 she who possesses imaginative lives, but I also have enough was found in violation for hear what her classmates 
compared the bombings in courage and someone who imagination to know that things sending instant messages want the class board do dur­
Alabama and the bombing of leaves a living legacy of them could go differently." after midnight, but they were ing their final year at the 
Vietnam and she served as a self. It is the leaders of today who able to appeal this decision College. 
delegate to international disar­"[Parks and King] were stu­have to take responsibility to since the messages were "Next year is all about 
mament conferences and inter­dents," White said. "They spent live up to Parks and King and actually sent before midnight them, and we want to hear 
national peace associations." their entire lives studying jus­find a way of earrying on their and not viewed by the receiv­exactly what activities and 
In what White described as tice, as we must do." missions, White said. er until after the deadline. events they want to make it 
one of the "happiest moments" The two women also had "This is our challenge, this is All members of both Kindt's and excellent senior year at 
of his life he spotted Parks in a imaginative courage that our sweet burden, this is our and Goeppinger's tickets are Saint Mary's," she said. 
corridor while attending a con­enabled them to move forward responsibility," he said. current members of the jun­
ference. Despite being a self­despite knowing what their ior class board, and election Contact Kelly Meehan at 
proclaimed "shy guy," he actions might cost them. Contact Megan O'Neil at results may generate issues kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
grabbed his two daughters and Further, they were builders of onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

The Notre Dan1e Club ofNew York's 90th Anniversary and St. Patrick's Day Weekend in New York City 

The Notre Datne Club ofNew York invites Notre Datne and St. Mary's Alumni, Faculty, Fatnily, Students and Friends to our 90th Anniversary Celebration March·16th and 17th 2006! 
All the details are on WW\V.ndnyc.org 

• 
Universal Notre Dame 90th Anniversary Gala-March 16th 6:30PM (with Fr. Jenkins!) 

• 
NDNY 90th Anniversary After Party at McFadden's Saloon-March 161h 9:30PM til?'!? 

• 
NDNY 90th Anniversary St. Patrick's Day Parade -l\1arch 17t11 3Pl\1 What better way to spend the end of Spring Break than celebrating with NDNY! Join us for our Anniversary Dinner, meet us at the after-party, or march with NDNY up 5th A venue in the traditional St. Patrick's Day Parade! Al1 the details are on our website-sign up today! 








ORLD & NATION 
Monday, March 6, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVJCES page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Scientists struggle to save chimps 
MBIIIE-MOKELE, Congo -Scientists are struggling to save the fast-disappearing bonobo, the gentle "hippie chimp" known for rnsolving squabbles through sex rather than violence. 
Unfortunately, bonobos are prized by Congolese for their tasty meat, and many vil­lagers who are illegally hunting the wiry, wizen-faced apes don't realize how close their prey is to extinetion. 
"Bonobos are an ieon for peace and love, tlw world's 'hippie chimps,"' said Sally Coxe of the Washington-based Bonobo Conservation Initiative. "To let them die ofT would be a catastrophe." 
Tlw animals are known for greeting rival groups with genital handshakes and sensual body rubs. Bonobo spats are swiftly settled -often with a Fn~nch kiss and a quick round of sex. 
Militants threaten oil facility attack 
I.ACOS, Nigeria -Militanl'i threatened more attacks on Nigeria's oil facilities and vowed Sunday to cut daily oil exporL'i by 1 million bar­rels, adding to concerns for OPI\C as it prepares f(,r a stratnh'Y nweting this week. 
Oil is already morn $60 a barrel, and the markeL<; am nervous about potnntial disruptions to tlw supply from this OPI\C membnr, which is 1\frimn's largest producer ofcrude oil. 
1\.F 1\IIH~iji, an c~neq..,ry analyst in the United States, said tlw Organization of Petroleum 1\xporting Countries was unlikely to trim the c·.artcd's ovc1rall output when it meets Wc•clrwsday bnnLUSP or worr·ies about tho unrest in Nignria's oil rngion and Iraq's eripplnd pro­dtwtion. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Children killed, police charge father 
Clli\HLOTTI\, N.C.-Tho bodies of a 5­year-old boy and his H-ynar-old sister wc~rn found shot to death in their burning homo. and poli<:e charged their father Saturday with the slayings. 
The fatlw.r was found a couple of miles from the house with critical injuries, police Sgt. Lisa Mangum said. She would not describn his injuries. 
The case is tho third in less than two months in whieh a Charlottn-area parent has bonn eharged with killing two chil­drnn. 
Shaken and tearful. Olga Miranda pieknd through thn debris of their homn in northeast Charlotte and declined to talk about her husband, (;ilborto Miranda Cunllar. 

Twins Hall of Farner suffers stroke 
FOHT MYI\HS, Fla. -Hall of Farner Kirby J>uc:kntt had a strokn at his Arizona home Sunday and was taknn to a hospital for sur­gory, thn Minnnsota Twins announced from thnir spring training camp. 
Tlw 44-ynar-old Puckett, who led the Twins to World Series titles in 1987 and I<J<J I, was taken to a Scottsdale hospital. 
"Thn Minnnsota Twins and major league basnball ask fans to kenp Kirby and his family in their thoughts and prayers," the tcHLill said in a statement. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Governor's approval rating drops 
INI>Ii\Ni\I'OLIS -Gov. Mitch Daniels' approval rating has droppnd to 37 percent as many Indiana residents object to the pace of chango in stall~ govnrnrnnnt during his first 14 months in oflicn, an Indianapolis Star poll pub­lished Sunday shows. 
HespondnnL'i to the statnwido tnlnphone poll of !iO I rc~sidnnL'i taknn last wonk also show over­wlwlming disapproval of onn of the changes I>aninls IHL'i sought since bm~oming govnrnor: the $3.H!i billion lnase of the Indiana Toll Hoad. 
IRAQ 


Politicians call for a new leader 
Shiite prime minister al-Jaafari faces pressure to recall his bid for a new term 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Sunni Arab and Kurdish politicians increased pressure Sunday on Shiite Prime Minister Ibrahim ai-Jaafari to aban­don his bid for a new term, while leaders of Iraq's Shiite m<~jority struggled to overcome growing internal divisions. 
Despite the squabbling, them wern reports the new parliament would be called into session for the first time as early as the end of the week, starting the clock on a 60-day period during which it would have to elect a president and approve a prime minister and Cabinet. 
Tho struggln to form a broad-basf~d governing coalition acceptable to all the country's main groups has bmm furthnr hampered by the surge in sectarian conllict. 
Targeted sectarian vio­lnnce killnd at least five peopln Sunday. Throe men died in a gunf'ight at a Sunni mosque in Baghdad and two relatives of a top Sunni deric were slain in a drive-by shooting. Sunnis accused deaths squads allied to the interim govern­ment, allegations denied by the Shiite-dominated Interior Ministry. 
U.N. envoy to Iraq Ashraf Johangir Qazi expressed serious concern Sunday about human rights in the country, citing reports of excessive use of force, ille­gal detention centers and disappearances -many of them the responsibility of insurgents. 
The political turmoil has left a dangerous leadership vacuum as Iraq's armed forces, backed by the U.S. military, battle to contain sectarian violence that has pushed Iraq toward civil war. 
The Pentagon's top gen­eral said Sunday he did not think a full-blown civil con­flict would break out, although he acknowledged "anything can happen." 

"I do not believe it has deep roots. I do not believe that they're on the verge of civil war," Gen. Peter Pace, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
A day earlier, the com­mander of the U.S. mili­tary's Central Command, Gen . .John Abizaid, said sflc­tarian divisiveness had been worsened by the bombing of a rcwered Shiite shrine in Samarra last month and was a threat to Iraq's stability. 
During a meeting with Iraqi leaders Saturday, Abizaid urged them to resolve the differences stalling the formation of a government. 
"The shrine bombing 
exposed a lot of sectarian fissures that have .been apparent for a while, but it was the lirst time I've seen it move in a direction that was unhelpful to the politi­cal process," Abizaid said afterward. 
The U.S. government sees a government with partici­pation across Iraq's com­munities as a key step toward improving security and weakening support for insurgents, which would allow Washington and its allies to lower troop num­bers. 
Under the constitution, the Shiites' United Iraqi Alliance, the largest bloc in parliament, has the first crack at forming a govern­ment and chose ai-Jaafari as its nominee for prime minister. 
But the Alliance has too few seats to ad alone. 1\nd it is facing a drive by Sunni, Kurdish and some secular parties that want to prevent ai-Jaafari from continuing at the end of the govern­ment, favoring instead cur­rent Vice President 1\dil Abdui-Mahdi. 
Abdui-Mahdi lost in tho Shiite caucus by one vote to al-Jaafari, who won with the support of radical doric Muqtada ai-Sadr. Abdui­Mahdi is backed by 1\bdui­Aziz al-llakim, a powerful Shiite leader who is fre­quently at odds politically with ai-Sadr. Both have strong militias bnhind them. 
ENGLAND 

Childhood obesity slated to rise 
Associated Press 
LONDON -The number of over­weight children worldwide will increase significantly by the end of the decade, and scinntists expect profound impacts on everything from public health earn to e c o n o m i e s , a s t udy p u b I is h.e d Monday said. 
Nearly half of the children in North and South America will be overweight by 2010, up from what recent studies say is about one­third, according to a report pub­lished by the International Journal of Pediatric Obesity. 
In the European Union, about 38 percent of all children will be overweight if present trends con­tinue -up from about 25 percent in recent surveys, the study said. 
"We have truly a global epidemic which appears to be affecting most countries in the world," said Dr. Philip James, chairman of the 
International Obesity Task Foree 
and author of an editorial in the journal warning of the trnnd. 
Tho percentages of ovnrwnight children also are nxpneted to increase signif'ieantly in tho Middle East and Southeast Asia. Mexico, Chilo, Brazil and Egypt have rates comparable to fully industrialized nations, James said. 
lie estimated that, for example, one in five children in China will be overweight by 2010. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, March 6, 2006 
in a certain way" would better -specifically, if he would feel cussed the issue of fundraising But Siegfried senator Ben serve the Notre Dame commu­the same about "The Vagina for women's organizations-an Gunty said the testimony of
Senate 

nity than the "Monologues." Monologues" if they were spon­option previously associated other senators to a certain University Affairs committee sored by a dorm rather than an with the "Monologues," which polarization within the student
continued from page 1 

chair Matt Walsh academic last year raised $15,000 for the body means there are "enough said he felt the department or S-0-S and YWCA organizations differing opinions on campus to "I think one of the great chal­campus culture the University. of St. Joseph County. put together different perform­
"If we really want our
lenges of this discussion [is] it was "male domi­Jenkins said This year's productions in ances or discussions." touches on issues around which nated" and events students to be honest he would have DeBartolo Hall, however, were He said it was important stu­there's a great deal of energy like the Keenan and open about their "some con-not able to charge for tickets. dents have "the ability to rea­[and] strong views," Jenkins Revue and Dillon cerns." "This restriction can only hurt son through opposition" -a
sexuality, how can we
said. "The challenge is when Pep Rally were "The same us in the long run,". Lindley theme he called central to the you speak on those issues, "pretty chauvinis­limit the ways in goes with the said. intellectual history of the there can be a tendency to sim­tic." which they express K e e n a n He also said he hoped debate Catholic Church and a "unique plify ... that makes discussion ''I'm not saying Revue," he would continue to promote opportunity" for Notre Dame. 
themselves?"
difficult." these events don't said. "Is that year-round awareness of prob­For Minority Affairs commit­
He said two-sided "for or belong at Notre appropriate? lems confronting women. tee chair Rhea Boyd, the ques­against" questions -such as Dame [but] Rhea Boyd We have to "The discussion in certain tion is what Notre Dame wishes "Are you for or against aca­there's a huge minority affairs talk about places seems to get polarized," to teach students. demic freedom?"-were over­void on this cam­that." Lindley said. "If it's stagnant "If we really want our stu­
committee chair 
ly simplistic and dangerous pus where Regarding and only rises around dents to be honest and open when applied to such a females get over­the frequency Valentine's Day about their sexual­nuanced subject matter. shadowed," of "The Vagina [when the ity," Boyd said, Senators took turns express­Walsh said. "How, as a Catholic Monologues" performances, 'Monologues' "how can we limit
"I appreciate the 

ing their views and feedback University, can we address the Jenkins said he was concerned are traditionally the ways in which from their constituents as well issues of gender, sexuality and about having the production at performed] . . . it seriousness with they express them­as questioning Jen.kins on a sexual orientation ... without Notre Dame year after year. makes the which the whole selves? ... variety of subtopics, including compromising our Catholic "Suppose that we have polarizing sur­"It's our respon­
student body has 

fundraising, violence against [character]? Do you think it's George Bush come to speak five face." sibility and privi­
taken this issue, 

women, the Keenan Revue and important to allow these events years in a row and we didn't Like Lindley, lege to ask difficult sponsorship. to exist?" have a prominent Democrat," Community and I am proud. " questions. To me, The depth of Jenkins' While Jenkins' answer was he said. Relations com­that's our mission." responses to the firm, it lacked But Walsh senator Erin mittee chair Student body

Father John Jenkins

questions varied. specifics. Hankins compared repeat per­Nick Guzman president Dave

"How, as a Catholic University president 
Listening "[Issues of formances of the "Monologues" stressed the Baron acknowl­attentively, University, gender and sex­to watching a movie multiple importance of edged the difficulty Jenkins nodded can we address the uality] need to times. the discussion of Jenkins' situa­and occasionally be addressed, "You pick up different ideas," -a discussion he believes t i o n
issues ofgender,

took notes while and we need to she said. "I was struck by how would suffer if the "One of the things I've learned murmuring sexuality and sexual find ways to different the 'Monologues' were "Monologues" were not held this year [is] you can't pick your "thank you." orientation without address them," this year than last year. [This annually. issue. It kind of picks you," he Many times his Jenkins said. year's production] was wonder­"If I was trying to create a said. " ... We don't really want
compromising our 
gaze was direct­"And we need to ful in a different way ... It's balance, I would try to do it to deal [with certain issues], but ed upwards, and Catholic be creative in priceless, basically." with more instead of less," he conscience impels you." he seemed [character]?" finding ways to Keough senator Rob Lindley said. "Seeing [the 'Monologues'] Jenkins concluded the meet­deeply engaged address them ... said he was concerned the cam­more than one time -I think ing by thanking senators and in personal Look. I do think pus discussion had become too that's important." urging them to keep the discus­

Matt Walsh

deliberation. we can." limited, overly focused on "The Jenkins paused before sion going. 
"I'm curious University affairs Jenkins said he Vagina Monologues" and the responding to Guzman. "You need to help us," he what sort of committee chair was "100 per­former Queer Film Festival -a "Well, let me just ask you a said. "You understand the posi­events you think cent behind dis-statement similar to an earlier question," he said. "It does take tion better than I do ... I appre­could take the cussing these comment made by Jenkins. some energy and time to put an ciate the seriousness with place of 'The Vagina issues" but told senators the "This is much more than something like that ... That's which the whole student body Monologues,"' Morrissey sena­creativity was required on their that," Lindley said. "This [dis­kind of the start of the answer. has taken this issue, and I'm tor Brian Klein asked Jenkins. parts. cussion] definitely should not be We can't have a performance proud." 
Jenkins said he thought a Welsh Family senator Brenna restricted to just the two [to balance the anti-Catholic production "to compare our Doyle asked Jenkins about events." themes of the 'Monologues'] Contact Maddie Hanna at own reflections ... our stories, sponsorship and endorsement He said Keough residents dis-every week." mhannal@nd.edu 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS 





h£nb~MUSIQVE 

CONCERT XXVI 

Big East 
continued from page 1 
pull off a win and not lose it in the last second or over­time," she said. "[The games] are all exciting, but it's defi­nitely better when you win." 
Junior Brian Kelly said the Irish earning a tournament bid is especially impressive in the context of the confer­ence's quality this season. 
"It was a tough Big East," he said. "Just 

team think we have a chance, I think we can do it," he said. Sophomore Nick Gergen dissented. 
"It's delaying the inevitable," he said. "Obviously, they haven't been able to win [throughout the season]." 
While his loyalty remains, Gergen said the team's per­formance thus far has pre­vented him from holding on to any high expectations for the postseason. 
''I'm hoping they do well, 

making it [to 'Tm hoping they 
the tournament] do well, but I'd be was good." 
surprised if
Kelly project­
they advanced 
ed the Irish might go on to very far." win at least a few games. 
Nick Gergen 
"I think they 


sophomore
have a chance 
to do well," he said. 
Smerdzniski also said he has high hopes for the tournament. 
''We're capable of beating every team in the Big East," Smerdzinski said. "You can see throughout the season we dido't really get blown away by any teams in the Big East." 
Noting the need for consis­tency from the players, Smerdzinski suggested the team has a substantial men­tal battle ahead of them. 
"As long as the guys on the 

but I'd be sur­prised if they advanced very far," he said. 
Freshman Diva Hira also remained uncon­vinced the team would proceed far in the tourna­ment. 
"I think they will go into [the tournament] a lit­tle bit and then fall out," she said, 
adding that throughout the season, "every good team they'd play, they would come close to winning and then lose." 
But even if Hira's enthusi­asm has not prevented her from writing off the tourna­ment, she said students should not give up hope. 
"There's always next year," she said. 
CHANT AND POLYPHONY FOR THE FIRST SUNDAY OF LENT 




SCHOLA MUSICORUM 
8:30 AND 9:30 P.M. WEDNESDAY, MARCH 8, 2005 
REYES ORGAN AND CHORAL HALL MARJE P. DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 

lO !< I 1.-f II 'I-I 'If '( <)~ TICKETS $3 
~DEBARTOLO
t-.Xn IU: ()A.M f PHONE 574-631-2800 ~ PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
m~.

...-rvx-.-..7 utc Wt!IJJ.k
Contact Karen Langley at klangley@nd.edu 

~ --~­

THE 0HSERVER 





USINESS

Monday, March 6, 2006 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

11,021.14 +7.60
}ones 
Up: Some: Down: Composite Volume: 1.393 176 I ,832 2,154,639,640 

AM£X 1,897.46 +10.19 NASDAQ 2 302.60 -8.51
'V"'l,?..,.... ... •••••••-• 

NYSf 8,ll9.9l -6.62 S&PSOO l,287.87 -1.91 NIKKEJ(Tokyo) 15.663.34 0.00 FTSf IOO(London) 5,858.70 +25.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CP (INTC) 
-0.83 -0.17 20.32 JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU) 
+6.30 +0.22 3.71 NASDAQ II 0 TR (QQQQ) 41.45
-0.58 -0.24 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 
+3.75 +0.16 4.43 FINISAR CORP (FNSR) 
+40.21 + 1.17 4.08 
Treasuries 
I0-YEAR NOTE +0.99 +0.46 46.84 13-WEEK BILL +0.1 I +0.05 44.92 30-YEAR BOND +0.95 +0.44 46.60 5-YEARNOTE +0.86 +0.40 47.10 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.31 63.67 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -2.40 568.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.33 90.55 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
116.3800 EURO 
0.8306 POUND 
0.5698 CANADIAN$ 1.1331 
IN BRIEF 
Auto parts maker files bankruptcy TOI.IillO, Ohio -Auto parts maker Dana Corp. filed for bankruptcy protection for its 
U.S. operations on Friday, joining a growing list of suppliers forced to make major restruc­turing moves because of the slumping U.S. auto industry. 
Dana, which sells brakes, axles and other parts to most major automakers, has been fac­ing increasing pressure from big car makers to sell them parts at lower prices. 
That eoupled with rising energy costs that am driving up the eosts of raw materials and driving down demand for gas guzzling sport utility vehicles and pickup trueks have put auto parts supplinrs in a linaneial bind. 
Blackberry settles patent dispute 
NEW YOHK -Hesnarch In Motion Ltd., tlw maknr of thB BlackBerry e-mail device, Friday announced it has settled its long-run­ning patent dispute with a small Virginia­based firm. averting a possible court­ordered shutdown of the BlackBerry system. 
HIM has paid NTP $612.5 million in a "full and final settlemnnt of all claims," the com­panies said. 
The snttlnnwnt nnds a period of anxiety for BlackBerry users. At a hearing last week, NTP had asked a federal court in Hichmond, Va.. for an injunction blocking the continued use of kny technologies underpinning BlackBPrry's wirelnss n-mail service. 
Northwest pilots make pay-cut deal 
MINNEAPOI.IS-Pilots readwd a tentative pay-r.ut deal with Northwest Airlinns Corp. on l.'riday. a major stnp toward nnding a showdown that put the bankrupt airline's future in doubt. 
Tlw Northwest brand1 of the Air Linn Pilots Association announcml thn agroenwnt but did­n't n•lnasn details. Thn nation's fourth-largest air·lirw said il got tlw $:{5S million in savings it sought. 
Tlw dPal would still have to bn approvnd by tlw union's IPadership and members. Thn union said it.-; lnadnrs would nwnt Friday night to mn­sidnr thn agn~Pnwnt. 
Pilots werP tlw last Northwest union without a deal. 
Mittal Steel Co. plans merger 
Executives cater to European reporters in effort to promote bid for Arcelor SA 
Associated Press 

CIIICAGO -A rival's gibe comparing its product to cheap cologne sent Mittal Steel Co. executives to the southern end of Lake Michigan with foreign jour­nalists in tow last week to show oil' the expensive stuff. 
If the Dutch steelmaker's charm offensive suc­ceeds, the high-end "per­fume"manuf'actured at its plant in Burns I !arbor, Ind., will smell sweet enough to skeptics to ease resistance to its hostile takeover bid for European competitor Arcnlor SA. 
But even if it fails and the largest-ever proposed steel mergnr goes sour, experts say that won't stop Mittal's relentless global buying spree -or further consoli­dation of' the fragmented steel industry. 
"They're not done by any means," said stnel industry analyst Scott Burns of Morningstar Inc. 
Combining Mittal and Luxembourg-based Arcelor, the two biggest steel manu­facturers, would create a company with production capacity of nearly 130 mil­lion tons a year, 3 1/2 times the output of the nearest competitor. India-born busi­nessman Lakshmi Mittal already has his company over 70 million tons after resources into a high-pow­undervalues his company nearby East Chicago, Ind. more than a dozen acquisi­ered public relations and and complained that Mittal's Aditya Mittal, Lakshmi's tions, including the 2005 lobbying campaign to strengths are in low-end 30-ynar-old son and the purchase of International ensure the biggest deal yet steel, unlike Arcnlor's high-company's president and Steel Group Inc. that made gets done. end products: "There are chief linandal oflicer, could­it No.1. European regulators are those who specialize in per-n't resist a playful rebuttal 
Without tipping their expected to rule on the fume, such as Areelor, and to Dolle's dig without men­hand specifically, Mittal acquisition by early April, others who are more in tinning it. "Clnarly our executives talked extensive­then Arcelor shareholders commodities -one could developed markets' assets ly during a two-day press will have up to two months say in eau de cologne." are what some might say tour of the need for more to vote on it. The govern­Mittal's response: Fly tho perfumn of our busi­consolidation in order to ments of France, dozens of Europe-based ness, and our developing reduce price volatility and Luxembourg and Belgium reporters to Chicago, its market.'>-this is more the create more growth oppor­-home to thousands of new U.S. headquarters city, cologne of our business," he tunities. Arcelor workers -have to see slick video presenta-_ said. 
"Whether he gets Arcnlor voiced concern about corpo­lions and grill its top nxneu-While the PH blitz eould or not, he will continue to rate governance since the tives. Then bus them to risk turning off Areelor acquire and will be in Mittal family would retain Burns Harbor, the most shareholders, analysts in excess of 100 million tons majority control of the modern integrated steel the United Statns and live years from now," said merged company. plant in the United States Europn say Mittal's straight­Tony Taccone, a steel indus­Arcelor itself is putting up and former flagship of forward and rolatively open try eonsultant in Pittsburgh one of the biggest road­Bethlehem Steel, whnre approaeh during the merger with First River Consulting. blocks, campaigning to high-nnd product.-; are made process appnars to have 
For now, Hotterdam­thwart the unsolicited ofl'er. for the automotive industry. shortened the odds of it based Mittal is plowing its CEO Guy Dolle said the bid Mittal also operates a mill in going through in some form. 

AT&T close to deal with BellSouth 
BellSouth spokesman Jeff Battcher Texas, Calili>rnia, and the Midwest. 
Associated Press 

were not immediately returned. Together, AT&T and BollSouth muld 
NEW YOHK-AT&T Inc. is nearing a AT&T Inc. would pay around $37 per have combinnd market eapitalization of deal to acquire BellSouth Corp. for BellSouth share, according to the nearly $160 billion, dwarllng rival around $65 billion, according to reports Journal, about an 18 pnrcont premium Vnrizon Communications Inc. published Sunday. to Friday's dosing price of $31.46 on The merged eompany would have 70 
The eompanins were expected to the New York Stock Exchange. million local-line phone customers and announee the terms of the deal as soon BeiiSouth shares have alrnady rison 1(, nearly I 0 million broadband sub­as today, aceording to reports in the pereent in 2006. scribers. Thn two mmpanies also own Nnw York Times and on the Wnb sitos According to USA Today, AT&T would Cingular Win~less LLC, the largt~st win~­of the Wall Strnet Journal, Atlanta be paying for the aequisition with its lnss earrier in the United States, and Journal-Constitution and USA Today. own stoek, which closed Friday at Yellowpages.eom, an online din~ct.ory. 
Thn paper·s cited unidnntified $27.99 on thn NYSE, up 15 pereent Tho Cingular brand would b11 phasnd soureos, dun to the sensitivity of the sinee the start or the year. out in favor of t.he AT&T brand, arcord­negotiations. Atlanta-basnd BeliSouth is the domi­ing to tho Journal and USA Today. Tlw 
Larry Solomon, viee president of eor­mu1t loeal telephone providnr in nine name will be familiar to wireless (~Us­porate eommunications for AT&T, Southeastnrn states, whiln San Antonio­tomers: AT&T Wirdnss In(~ .. a spin-on· dnclined to comment Sunday to The basnd AT&T's loeal-serviee customers of AT&T, was aequin~d by Cingular in Associated Press. Messagns left for aro eoncnntratnd in 13 statns, induding October 2004. 
-
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Monday, March 6, 2006 
West Nile virus does not increase defects 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO Pregnant women who get West Nile virus likely will have normal babies. although a small risk of birth defects can't be com­pletely ruled out, according to the first publishod report from a multistate registry. 
Researchers at the federal Centors for Disease Control and Prevention called their report "somewhat reassur­ing" but said pregnant womon still should bn espe­cially careful to follow pre­cautions, including staying indoors when mosquito activ­ity is high and wearing repel­lent during mosquito season. 
Of 72 infants in 16 states whose mothers had West Nile during pregnancy, only three had problems that might have been linked with expo­sure to the virus before birth, according to 2003-2004 data from the registry. 
Two had abnormally small heads and one was born with an extra toe. In all three eases, the mothers had fevers but otherwise relatively mild cases of West Nile. 
One of the small-headed infants had severe birth defects and died three days after birth, but the other appeared to grow out of the problem and was developing normally by age 1. 
None of the infants studied "had conclusive laboratory evidence" of developing West Nile virus infection from their mothers, although scientists are uncertain how effective current tests are at detecting West Nile infection at birth, according to the report, being published Monday in ·the March edition of Pediatrics. 
Because of circumstantial evidence, "we couldn't say with confidence they (birth problems) were not caused by West Nile virus," said CDC researcher and co-author Daniel O'Leary. 
That evidence includes tim­ing of the mothers' infections. The mother of the extra-toe baby had West Nile fever 
early in pregnancy, when development of fingers and toes occurs. The other two mothers got sick during mid­pregnancy. 
Seven. or 10 percent of the infants, had major birth defects including Down syn­drome and cleft palate, about double the rate in the general population, but prevalence of miscarriages and premature births was lower than in the general population. However, the researchers believe only the three cases might be linked to the virus. 
CDC-funded research is investigating whether any of the women had other factors that might have increased their risks for having chil­dren with birth defects, O'Leary said. 
The CDC collects nation­wide data on pregnant women infected with West Nile disease, the mosquito­borne virus that has been report­ed in humans in at least 42 states. 
The states involved in the new report are Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Illinois, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, New York, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Texas and Wyoming. 
Most infected people never get sick, but up to about 20 percent develop mostly mild flu-like symptoms. Severe symptoms, including some­times fatal brain inflamma­tion, are rare. Since 1999, when the virus first appeared in this country, 782 West Nile deaths have been reported nationwide. 
Dr. Shari Goldman, an obstetrician affiliated with Chicago's Northwestern Memorial Hospital, said none of her pregnant patients have developed West Nile though some have asked how they can avoid the disease. 
"I raise it as a concern that they should think about, however I do not want to alarm my patients because the risk of them contracting West Nile virus is low," Goldman said. 
~ Spring Break Specials 

~ 15 °/o off all Cad'.~ t?A.. Sandals and Slides )WJW!f'l!J Y~, includes lfat ~utb &tod /wt,. Adidas Adilettes, Nike ~uth &Jnd, Indiana 4(,(,f1 (?74) 2.M..l~'2. 
10% off 
£:6m~ in or ta\\ for All Shorts 1'-f>hirtf> for 1our t~am 
~a\6 e.ndt. Marc.b n, toot, wbi\6 &upp\iu, \a&t
l1ourr.: Monda>f ~ frida<(: to am to 1 pm ~aturdar 10 am -(, pm vif>it our ~~b&it~: ~nda>f: 12. noon ~ ') ?m W\ll.f>Ou~r~tc..net 


High tuition troubles the poor 
Programs make college more affordablefor low, middle income students 
Associated Press 
The signs are everywhere, from the BMWs parked on campus, to the students' designer cell phones, to the number of families paying full price ~wen as tuition and fees climb past $40,000. The most prestigious colleges are over­whelmingly attended by the wealthy. 
It's a problem collnges are speaking about more frankly and have tried to address with more l'inancial aid, but with only mixed success. At the most selective schools, a 2003 study found, just 3 percent of stu­dents came from the poorest socio-economic quarter of fami­lies, while 74 percent came from the richest. 
Now, a small group of selec­tive colleges is turning its atten­tion to what may be an untapped reservoir of able, low-income students: the 6.5 million people who attend com­munity colleges. Historically, those students have been ignored by elite colleges, which recruit mostly at high schools and often accept few or no transfers because they want to offer a distinctive four-year experience. 
Five well-known private col­leges and three highly selective public schools -the flagship campuses of the Universities of Michigan, California and North Carolina -were to announce plans Monday to accommodate a total of about 1,100 more community college transfer stu­dents from low-to moderate­income families over the next four years. The Jack Kent Cooke Foundation will con­tribute about $7 million for support programs, while the colleges will spend more than $20 million of their own money on support programs and financial aid. 

The private colleges partici­pating are Amherst, Mount Holyoke, Bucknell, Cornell and the University of Southern California. 
Though the numbers amount to a relative handful -with Cal taking by far the most transfers -the hope is that the variety and prestige of the schools involved will persuade others to take a chance on students who have started at two-year schools for financial or family reasons. 
"There's a lot of focus at Harvard and lots of other places on the fact that there are no low-income students at those schools, or very few," said Joshua Wyner, the Cooke Foundation's vice president for programs. 'The place where a lot of them are that nobody senms to be looking is commu­nity colleges." 
A 2005 Department of Education study found more than one-third of 12th graders in 1992 who went first to com­munity college and earned more than 10 credits eventually transferred to a four-year col­lege. But few go to the most selective schools. On those campuses, typically only about one in 1,000 students trans­ferred from a two-year school, Wyner said. 
Some of the participating col­leges, like Cal and Mount Holyoke, already have close ties with "feeder" community col­leges and will expand existing programs. Mount Holyoke, a women's college in Massachusetts, will provide a full-time academic counselor inside nearby Holyoke Community College to identify transfer candidates and help them prepare. It hopes to add about 10 slots per year. 


Monday, March 6, 2006 The Observer +NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Channel One's ads pack more punch than ne-ws features 

A.~sociatcd Press 
CIIICACO -Studnnts rmnnm­l)('r Il101'P of tlJP advortising than tlwy do tho nows storins shown on Chamwl Ono, tlw daily public all'airs program shown in 12,000 
U.S. sdwols, a study has found. 
Studnnts rPporl.(~d huying-or having thnir panmts buy -tnPn­orinnlod produds advortisml on tlw show, induding fast food and vid(~O ganws, rnsmtrdwrs said. 
Schools that agrnn to show Channnl Onn on 90 pnreont of sdwol days rncnivo frnn tnlnvi­sions and satnllit(~ dishes, a dna! critks say turns studnnts into a captivn audinncn for advertisors. Noarly H million students sen tho program, aceording to Channnl Orw's parnnt company, Prinwdia. 
"Tho bnnnl'its of having Channnl One in schools snem to haY!~ sonw real eosts that should eroato an ethical dilemma for schools," said study co-author Erica Austin of Washington State Univnrsity. The study appmtrs Monday in the journal Pediatrics. 

Channnl Ono CEO Judy llarris qLwstiorwd whetlwr the stu­donts' purchases wern influ­nncnd nxclusively by Channnl Orw ads or by othnr advnrtising and the preferences of their pnors. 
"Those ehildnm woron't in an isolation box," Harris said. 
Advertising pays for Channel Ono's news, hoalth and fitness contnnt, llarris said. Advertisers don't influence the news content, and the eompany has high stan­dards that keep ads appropriate lilr students, she said. 
The show won a Peabody Award for reporting on Sudan's eivil war last year. The 12­minute daily broadcast has 10 minutes of news and two min­utns of cithnr ads or public serv­icn announcmnents. 
Channel Onn produces somn of its own news programming, but it also airs Assoeiatnd Pross Tnlnvision Nnws video. Associated Press news service stories appear on Channel One's Web sitn. 
Hesearchers survoyed 240 sev­enth and nighth-graders at a school in Washington state. The students reported that during the previous three months they bought an average of 2.5 prod­ucts advertised on Channel One. 
The students remembered, on average, 3.5 ads compared to 
2.7 news stories. However, they didn't remember much about either, retaining only 13 percent of the news stories and 11 per­cent of the ads shown during one week. 


AP Students operate media equipment provided by Channel One at Maria High School In Chicago Friday. 
0 
p 
E 
R 
~ 
N 
0 
T 
R 
E 
D 
~ 
lVI 
E 
TICKETS AT 
LAFORTUNE 
BOX OFFICE 


CALL

FIND OUT ON APRIL 7 AND 8 IN WASHINGTON HALL! 

631·8128 


THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, March 6, 2006 
THE OBSERVER Black Republicans to the rescue 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAl INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
{574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 63!-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
{574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
{574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574} 631-8767 obsphoco@nd..edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conten~, including ~dvertisemenrs, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advenisemenrs based on contenr. 
The news is reported as ;1\:curately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available tO all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infurmation. 
Qucstiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed w Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger, 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th¢ Observer {USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday ucqn: during <:x:am .and vacation periods. Asubscription 10 The Obs~t is: $lOQ fQr -one acadc:m~· yean $55 for Qfl.¢ S4mi!:Sr'¢r. 
Tk Obstrvtr is pllhlhbcd ~\~ POStMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send addr~ cortmitulS' ~o: Notre D'""'·IN 46>50.0779 11te Obs:¢rver l'eriodkal IX'st~t paid ar Nouc D.~tmc ~0.Bo<779 .md addi1iorntl mailing Qffiel!:S. 024 Sooth Dining Hod! 
Nout' Dame, IN 46556-077:9 
The Ob~tvcr is .a member -ofthe Assodattd Pr~!ii:ii. AU reproduai~n righu .aft!: tl!SctVed. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Nicole Zook Matt Puglisi Kelly Meehan Dan Murphy 
Laura Fran Tolan Baumgartner Scene Katie Kohler Chris McGrady 
Viewpoint Margie Rosmonowski Graphics Matt Hudson 
Just when it looked as though fierce partisanship and violent faction were going to leave America's democracy in shambles, two vastly different groups arose from the political mire and took the first steps toward ensuring that the States of America stay United well into the future. 
Who were they? Black H.epublicans (no, it's not an oxy­moron) and Catholic Democrats. 
It's no secret that GOP Chairman Ken Mehlman has been fighting hard to rally African-American voters back into "the party of Lincoln" since the realization that President George W. Bush's share of the black vote climbed from 9 to 11 percent in 2004. In the tumultuous aftermath of Hurricane Katrina -in which 59 percent of the victims were black -he has had to work extra hard, speaking in 46 minority communities and publicly schmoozing with influen­tial black leaders like boxing promoter Don King. 
While the fruits of his labors will go largely unnoticed until November, the emergence of several African-American candidates for major political seats this year is the first sign that the black vote may no longer necessarily be a lock for the Democrats. 
In Pennsylvania, for instance, former Pittsburgh Steeler Lynn Swann is attempting to become only the second black governor in U.S. history-and the first ever from the H.epublican Party. He is currently neck and neck with incumbent Ed Rendell, according to most polls, and the implications of a black H.epublican governor in a major swing state could certainly throw a wrench into Democrats' plans to take back the White House in 2008. 
The same situation goes for neighbor­ing Ohio, where the African-American Secretary of State Ken Blackwell is seeking the governorship in a state 

Joey 
Falco 
Forty Ounces 

where Bush's black support soared from 9 percent to an estimated 16 per­cent in 2004. 
While some Democrats might be shiv­ering in their boots at the thought of losing their most reliable voting bloc, the reality is that this shift in party loy­alty could work wonders for America's minority populations. After years of "entrenchment" in the Democratic Party -a period in which many argue that Democrats only paid lip service to black causes and never really legislated in their favor-African Americans have finally decided to make their vote mean something by giving up their sta­tus as single-issue (racial politics) vot­ers and shifting toward a moderate independent position. 
Of course, the memory of the implicit racism of the GOP's "southern strategy" will be hard to shake. (Who can forget H.epublican Senator Trent Lott's foolish decision to declare in 2003 that America "wouldn't have had all these problems over these years" if the segre­gationist Strom Thurmond had been elected president in 1948?) Still, if black voters are willing to put the past behind them and instead focus on real issues -like the fact that black unem­ployment has actually fallen under Bush's leadership-it will only force both parties to fight harder to receive their support. 
On the other side of the aisle, Catholic Democrats made a similar move toward moderation last week when they released a "Statement of Principles by Fifty-Five Catholic Democrats in the 
U.S. House of H.epresentatives." In an effort to fight back against being labeled "good Catholics" or "bad Catholics" based on the single issue of abortion, these 55 Representatives (who included some of the staunchest pro-lifers in Congress) tried to empha­size the importance of other issues ­like social justice, poverty, war and the death penalty -to their Catholic faith. 
While still admitting that they sought "policies that encourage pregnancies to be carried to term" because of "the undesirability of abortion," these Democrats seemed to be imploring the Catholic electorate to expand its voting decisions beyond the single issue of abortion in order to elect representa­tives who will light for a variety of faith-based issues in Congress. Not only does this send a strong signal to the Catholic bishops who unnecessarily campaigned from their altars in 2004 by claiming that John Kerry's pro­choice stance meant that he should not receive communion, but it also suggests to Catholic voters -who have been slowly shifting their loyalties toward the Republican Party since 1952 -that their political influence can be dramati­cally increased if they are not seen as a single-issue, "sure-thing" voting bloc. 
These shifts toward independence, moderation and multiple-issue voting represent an extremely positive move for both African Americans and Catholics. After all, history has shown that when a particular group becomes too entrenched in one political party, the issues that are most important to them are often ignored by legislators who no longer have to fight for their votes. 
Beyond these two groups, though, the significance of these tiny political realignments could suggest a coming end to the single-issue divisiveness that has made political conversations impos­sible and bipartisan agreement unimaginable over the past decade. Only when African Americans can step outside the sphere of racial politics, Catholics can step outside the box of right-to-life politics and neoconserva­tives can step outside the brave new world of global democratization politics will a majority of Americans be able to agree with the political direction of their democracy. 
Unless someone thinks that 34 per­cent of the public supporting the presi­dent constitutes a democratic majority. 
Joey Falco is a junior American Studies major. His column appears every other Monday. He can be contact­ed at jfalco@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Mendoza policy offends transfer student 
When I received my letter of accept­ance into the University this past sum­mer, I thought it meant that I was a Notre Dame student. Like all the fresh­man "star students" that were privi­leged enough to be accepted into such a prestigious school, I was issued an ID card, assigned to a dorm room and was helped when scheduling my classes. The only difference between my experi­ence and that of Notre Dame's other future alumni was that I was a transfer. No problem, right? I didn't think so. I fit right into the "Notre Dame family" but, apparently, the joke was on me. 
According to the recent Observer article "Mendoza rejects 'gates,' exter­nal transfers," (March 3) the Mendoza School of Business does not see stu-
OBSERVER POLL 
What are you doing for Spring Break? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

dents from "external schools" as Notre Dame students. The article failed to mention, however, that transfer stu­dents cannot declare business as a major until completing a full year at the University. I cannot help but feel a bit offended by Dean Carolyn Woo's claim, "We're not obligated to take external transfers." What I fail to understand is why it should even be seen as an obligation to admit an intel­ligent, hard-working transfer student into a certain major. Woo continues saying, "We should serve Notre Dame students before external students." I am now enrolled in the University, which means that I am now a Notre Dame student. I wasn't a Notre Dame student last year, but last year I wasn't 
SubllitaLetter to tbe Editor at 
\AI\ AlUI n~~ffi·,t?l\bcof.·VOf.· C·/l\oo,,
YiV/ Y=V:' ~~/ •. r1:\l~ :! ~~ V:~=Y=~:~; ,= ~ .·• ·· .... Ylf r1 
trying to take classes at Notre Dame. Should I have a transfer sticker on my ID card so that both faculty and stu­dents know that I am an "external stu­dent?" 
I understand that Mendoza has to cut their numbers down. I do not under­stand why the incredibly diverse trans­fer class that I was fortunate enough to be a part of was offended. Don't get me wrong, I am happy reading my Aristotle and Shakespeare as I study the liberal arts, but please at least rec­ognize me as a Notre Dame student. 
Meghan Lueck sophomore Howard Hall March 5 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
':4 lie never lives to be old." 
Sophocles Greek tragic poet 


THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Monday, March 6, 2006 page 11 
U-WIRE Music isn't what it used to be, but change is on the way 
It is often said that music is the universal language. That or math, I can't remember which one. Or maybe it's both. Whatever. 
Anyway, uni­versal language Doug Scott or not, music has found a way to 
1he Kentucky 
transcend geo­
Kernel
graphie, eultural, 
University of
nthnie and lin­
Kentucky
guistic bound­arins. 
This can be seen everywhere you look, such as kids singing "The Maearena" at a high school homncoming dance or the Mexican guys l'vn worked with lhn past two summers singing along to "My Heart Will Go On" during their luneh break. 
As beautiful a phenomenon as music is, it, along with pretty much everything in this world (nxcept for Chipotle), has a dark side. 
I'm not talking about rap music that critics say cause misogyny among youth (it doesn't) or indus­trial metal that others say cause teenagers to shoot up their schools (it doesn't). I'm talking about bad music. 
Heally bad music. 
What is really bad musie, you ask? The stock answer from most music elitists would be to simply turn on MTV, and they would be right. 
llowever, unless you tune your tnlevision to the "musie" ehannel early in thn morning, you will not see any music videos, and "Meet the Barkers" doesn't serve as a good ease study for the state of modern pop music. But if you've ever eaten a meal in Commons, you know what I'm talking about. 
Two years ago, when I lived in Blanding II, I was often subjected to the sonic filth that poured 

fourth from televisions around 
thA dining hall. As if "I Love the 
Way You Move" wasn't annoying 
enough already, it can truly drive 
a person mad when they hear it 
at least six times a day. 
But this column isn't meant to pick on OutKast, a group that I believe has good intentions at heart. I'm here to address the other senseless pap that most of you uncultured swine on campus listen to. 
I'm talking about bands like Niekelback, Creed, My Chemieal Homance, Simple Plan, Evanescence, Toby Keith, Ashley Simpson, Gretchen Wilson, Bright Eyes ... I could go on, but I don't think I need to. 
Whether it's prepackaged pop music or some random guy who plays guitar and only writes songs about ex-girlfriends, the standard by whieh music is judged today has been lowered dramatically from where it once stood in the past. 
Although some of this has to do with the democratization of musie and the availability of recording equipment, this sort of develop­ment should be a good thing. 
However, this revolution, along with giving many musicians the opportunity to make and distrib­ute music in an environment where they previously were unwelcome, also gives many unsavory musicians the opportu­nity to ravage your eardrums with what they will constantly refer to as their "art." 
For example, I'm sure at one point in your time at UK you've seen a poor soul playing guitar and singing outside White Hall, the Student Center or even your dorm on a sunny day. These peo­ple must be stopped. 
Don't think that by any means I'm advocating a return to listen­ing to "oldies" or what have you. Some of music's greatest traves­ties were committed before any of us were even born (think The Eagles, John Denver, post-Genesis Phil Collins). 
What I am proposing, however, is a return to what makes music music, such as, I don't know, playing your own instruments. Or, egad, writing your own songs. Or ... wait wait wait ... doing some­thing original for once. 
The John Mayer Trio may be superior to most live aets in the field of musieianship, but I've already heard their aet before when it was called Stevie Ray Vaughn. In much the same fash­ion, The Killers sounded a lot better when they were called 1980-1989 and rap only sounds good under the names De La Soul, A Tribe Called Quest, and the Sugarhill Gang. 
The Barenaked Ladies onee said in a song as equally moronic as their name, "It's all been done before." They're right. If I have to hear another band trying to be the next Incubus, Limp Bizkit, 
O.A.H. or Dashboard Confessional, I am going to gouge my ears with a skewer. 
There is a musical revolution on the horizon, and it doesn't involve guys wearing girls' jeans, cowboy hats, hemp necklaces or over­sized black jeans with chains. Prepare thyself. 
This column first appeared in the March 3 edition of the Kentucky Kernel. the daily publi­cation of University of Kentucky. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Basketball response 

I am writing in response to the recent let­ter to the editor coneerning Mike Brey, the men's basketball coach, written by John F. Chute, class of' 1976 ("Higher standards for men's basketball" March 1). 
Before I begin, let it be known that I work at DeMatha Catholic Iligh School. Brey's alma mater. I also attended DeMatha with Brey so I make no bones about being an avid supporter of the basketball team. 
What surprises me is that the student newspaper would print such an Arror-f'illed, arrogant letter by an angry alum who clearly has an agenda. 
Permit me if you will as I would like to dispute a few of' Chute's points. 
1. 
This is Notre Dame's 11th season in The Big East (not 14th). Without question, The Big East is the best basketball confer­ence in the nation. Without taking anything away from Digger Phelps, but Coach Phelps's t~~ams played a much easier inde­pendent sehedule. 

2. 
The author's contention that he is not qualified to analyze basketball and tlwn proceeding to give his lengthy orror-J'illed analysis. I thought Notre Dame grads wore smarter than that. 

3. 
His assertion that a "prima donna" brought down the squads of '05 and '04 without recognizing what that same "prima donna" did in his first two years at Notre Dame. 

4. 
His absurd comparison of' the recent Marquette-Notre Dame game to that of a matchup of the Harlem Globetrotters­Washington Generals. If' you recall, Notre Dame was leading in the Marquette game in the second half and finally lost by eight points, thanks to the efforts of a gifted opposing player. Having attended numorous Harlem Globetrotter games as a youth, I can assure you that the games I saw were never close to being competitive, as we all know. 

5. 
His criticism of Brey's eoaching against Arizona in the Sweet 16 a few years back. Perhaps the author should understand that there is a shot clock in eollege basketball! Furthermore, the last time I checked, the purpose of the game is to outscore your opponent! 

6. 
Ilis criticism of Athletic Director Kevin White's hiring of Brey despite the tremen­dous success Brey achieved as a head coaeh at the University of Delaware and as an assistant at Duke. 

7. 
His comment that Duke University had an inferior history of achievement in men's basketball prior to 1982. I ask the author to go do his research and see that Duke had Final Four appearances in both tlw 1960s and 1970s. 

8. 
His comment that the program is in a "vegetative state." Excuse me'? Three NCAA appearances and two NIT appearances, a vegetative state? What color is the sky in your universe? 

9. 
llis criteria for the contract of a htutd basketball coach. I can assure you that no coach in America, including Coach K of Duke, would ever sign a contract saying that he must finish in the Top 10 of the national rankings each year. 

10. 
llis conclusion that Notre Dame was not going to make The Big East Tournament. Way to jump ship and support your alma mater. 


As I said before, I am a Brey apologist. I understand the losses have been very tough this year and home attendance is down a fraction. But let's l'aee it, Notrn Dame has been competing very well at the highest of levels and has missed success by the nar­rowest of margins. And I havn to belinvn that the Irish are getting good TV ratings. 
Go Irish! 
Thomas Ponton Director of Development DcMatha Catholic High School March S 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 12 
Monday, March 6, 2006 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Chieftains' powerful music energizes campus 
By SEAN SWEANY Scene Writer 
Young and old celebrated together when The Chieftains visited the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC) Thursday night. The four decade old group understands the power of collab­orative effort in music and included other musicians, dancers and even the audience to create a night of wonderful music and memories. 
The Chieftains, under the lead of the energetic uilleann pipes and tin whistle player Paddy Moloney, combined their legendary talent with Irish harpist Triona Marshall. guitarist Jeff White and fiddle player/Irish dancer Jon Pilatzke. They were also joined by The Cottars, two young brother-sister pairs from Cape Breton, Nova Scotia and the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra. This diverse group was led by Moloney, who was in his element performing and leading the toe tapping songs. 
The concert began with The Chieftains playing some of their tradi­tional songs from various albums. The group is renowned for it's unique ability to combine Irish music with other forms of folk music and this was showcased when they performed the bluegrass song "Country Blues" with guitarist Jeff White. The group also played a lively song combining Oriental and Irish melodies called "Full of Joy" from The Chieftains' tour of China. 
When The Chieftains were joined by The Cottars, Moloney began telling jokes and the energy in the theater rose to a new level. The teenage group from Canada held their own sharing the stage with The Chieftains and won the audience with their remarkable talent for singing, dancing and playing their respective instruments at the same time. The most memorable song the two groups played was the Irish elassic "The Rocky Road to Dublin," complete with rock concert-like spotlights sweep­ing the theater. 
After an intermission, The Chieftains were joined by the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra, conducted by Daniel Stowe. Together, the groups per­formed several pieces written by Paddy Moloney. First was "Long Journey Home" a song about the Great Famine composed by Moloney for a television series about the Irish in America. The musicians were joined by the Notre Dame choral group Collegium Musicum, who added renditions of "Shenandoah" and "Anthem" to the moving song. Afterwards, Moloney listed this as one of the best performances of "Long Journey Home" ever. 
Another of Moloney's arrangements called "Planxty Mozart" was a humor­ous song where a French horn player, backed by the Orchestra, played a Mozart tune in a musical duel with an Irish jig performed by The Chieftains. After several minutes of back and forth competition, the two sides found a har­monium and were joined by Irish dancers to finish the rousing song. 
After the main program, which will be performed again by all parties at New York City's Carnegie Hall on St. Patrick's Day, The Chieftains left the stage to thunderous applause. For an encore, Moloney asked that the house lights be brought up so that the audi-ence could join in an Irish jig per­formed by the entire ensemble. Before long, nearly the entire audience, both young and old, was in the aisles of the theater, dancing to the driving rhythm of the Irish song. Perhaps no one enjoyed the festivity more than Paddy Moloney, who was grinning from ear to ear while playing his tin whistle. After the song ended and the musicians departed, the entire audience gave The Chieftains a standing ovation long after the band left the stage. As the audience filed out of the Leighton Concert Hall Thursday night, the energetic music of The Chieftains had performed its expected magic by bringing the same youthful enthusiasm to every spectator in a night that will not be forgotten for a long time. 

Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
SHOW REVIEW 

Martin's 'new-age' comedy delights, appeals to young crowds 
By CASSIE BELEK 
Scene Writer 

Demetri Martin has some jokes and he tells them well. In addition to telling these jokes, Martin also plays instru­ments. He did both Saturday night at Legends to a room so packed that peo­ple were even sitting on the floor. 
Martin, who is well on his way to becoming an established comic, excels in the lost art of telling jokes. While other comedians present lengthy sce­narios with the punch line at the end, Martin, an observational comedian, presents a series of unrelated jokes like "I think the worst time to have a heart attack is during a game of charades," and "Sometimes I wonder what would Jesus do for a Klondike bar." 
As a graduate of Yale University, he dropped out of NYU Law School after only a few months because he thought it was boring. He became an intern for "The Daily Show with Jon Stewart" and later worked as a sketch writer for "Late Night with Conan O'Brien." Recently he has made comic appear­ances on "Comedy Central Presents," "The Late Show with David Letterman" and "Late Night with Conan O'Brien." Martin is currently the resident trendspotter for "The Daily Show," which he has mixed feelings on because he said now he actually has to pay attention to trends. 
Martin's performance began with a short animated film he created high­lighting "Lesser Known Mythical Creatures." Then Martin emerged from behind the curtains and interacted with the audience before beginning his actu­al set. He thrives on spontaneity and improvisation, which was apparent as he pointed out audience members and made fun of them, even though he said he hates it when comics do that. Martin can take anything in the room and make a joke of it instantly, from a green exit sign to the name "Legends." 
Martin is among a new crop of alter­native comedians who rely on a more aware audience to understand their type of humor. They break tradition by including short films, musical instru­ments and various props to create comedy that makes the audience think rather than just listen and laugh. They are breaking the rules of traditional comedy and younger audiences are there to embrace them. 
On Saturday night, Martin played the keyboard and the guitar while deliver­ing some of his jokes. During his key­board segment, however, he seemed to lose his connection with the audience. One could almost picture him perform­ing alone in his bedroom rather than in front of a large crowd. Martin seemed bored and tired, but revived the show later with his guitar playing in which he shouted at and called up an annoy­ing audience member named James. It was a moment of intense awkward­ness, but Martin turned it into one of the funniest parts of the evening. 
After his set, Martin took audience questions, increasing the intimacy between him and the crowd. He spoke of run-ins with other comedians, including the recently passed away Mitch Hedburg, and he called Conan O'Brien and Jon Stewart two of the best bosses someone could have. After answering questions, he took pictures and signed autographs. 


Martin displayed his comedic talents to an eager and thankful audience. When he questioned why one audience member was recording his set, the young man answered that Martin was the best thing to come to Legends this year. 
A joke seldom failed, and when it did, Martin was as self-deprecating as Conan O'Brien, displaying his laid-back attitude but also great confidence that the audience wouldn't reject him. Students don't often get the chance to see professional comedians in person, and Martin provided his brand of humor and increased his growing fan base. 

Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
Monday, March 6, 2006 
page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Pepe Le Moko' is a stepping stone for entire genre 
and he will surely be captured upon
By MARTY SCHROEDER 
leaving and entering the other sections Scene Critic 
of the city. 
This film is not considered Film Noir "I'•'P•' In Moko," tlw famed I937 film, per se, but it does contain many of the was roeently scrnennd as part of the elr.rnnnts that would come to provide I>PAC's "Film Noir Wnnkend." The lilm tho icons by which tho Noir genre is provides a prime example of' Frnneh now known. The characters give off an cinnma's Pontie Healism movomnnt air of nostalgia for past days and bit­which occurrnd in tlw I930s. "Pew\ In terness for their currr.nt situations. Moko" is also a marvelous paradigm of There is one scone in particular when tlw inspiration behind the "Film Noir" Pope discusses Paris with Gould. Gabin genre and is wnsidernd by many to be infuses his character with the proper orw tlw genrn's most inlluentiallilms. hopnless nostalgia for his former home, .lean c;ahin stars as the suave gang­which leads perfnetly into a bitterness stPr I'•'P•' In Moko. for br.ing conlined Tlw plot revolves in the Casbah.
Pepe Le Moko
around tho P1~pe has money, Fr n n el1 poIi e e ) women and fon:•~ in Algiers as friends in the
••••,thny attempt to Casbah but Paris capture 1'1ip•i le still calls his
Director: Julien Duvivier 
Moko, who has name. This inter­
Writer: Henri La Barthe
evaded them by play between nos­
Starring: Jean Cabin, Line Noro, 
hiding out in the talgia and bitter­
Mireille Balin and Lucas Gridoux
winding and nar·­ness would pro-row alloys of' vide a basis for Algiers's Casbah. Informants, loyal the nihilistic feelings that would come friends and women all surround P1~p1\ to typify the characters of Film Noir. as he plays his game of eat and mouse The aesthetic of the film is also of wilh tho policn. Most of the f11m is dom­note. The cinematography shines inatnd by the love alTair between Pep•\ through in certain instances of hr.ight­and tlw bnautiful Gaby Gould played by enod emotion providing an artistic Min~illn Balin. She is a Parisian who impact to the emotional impact coming has travnled to Alginrs. While there, through the actors. The final shots of sho and hor friends go into the Casbah the l'ilm are of particular note as the wlwrnin slw enwuntors Pep1\. They fall camera placement and movement cor­in love immediatnly and the conflict respond to and heighten the emotional rnvolvns around the jealousy that impaet of the conclusion. This artistic Ptip•i's currnnt lover, lncs, has for l'lair influenced many Italian Neo­( iould and J>e p•\'s attorn pts to see Gould Healism lilmmakers and, perhaps bet­outside of' the Casbah. The only catch is ter-known movement, the rrench New tlw police have the Casbah surrounded Wave. Directors such as Jean-Luc 

"Pepe Le Moko" is a prime example of the Poetic Realism movement and Is also considered to be one of the the primary Influences of the "Film Nolr" genre. 
Godard and Franr,~ois Truf'faut, French inlluence the goldr.n ago of post World New Wave directors, pointed to this War II film directors. If in snarch of a artistic flair as an inlluence on their highly entertaining and artistically filmmaking. The rrench New Wave r.xcellent film, one could do much then would go on to influence the worse than watch "Pope In Moko." revered American directors sueh as Gangsters, love, crime and policr. all Martin Scorsese and Francis Ford converge in the Casbah of Algiers. This Coppola. mixture is beautifully put together and 
"Pepe le Moko" contains many of the even more pleasure can be derived elements that we have come to recog­today in noting the inlluence this film nize in our own cinema. It's inlluenee and others likr. it have had on the con­on Film Noir can be seen through the stant development of cinema. latter's use of people who are outside the law and on the edge of society and Contact Marty Schroeder at the aesthetic nature would go on to mschroe1@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'Flores de Otro Mundo' goes beyond typical foreign fare 
By MICHELLE FORDICE 
Scene Writer 
"l."lores de Otro Mundo". or "Fiowr.rs J.'rorn Anothor World," addresses racism, the dillkultins in the search for compan­ionship and the meaning of family through the Inns of a small rural village in Spain. Despite these heavy underlying tlwmns, dirnctor and writer lefar Bollafn still allows the lilm a realistic balance with a littln humor, sweetness and hope. 
As the opening 
from the men who see her primarily as a sex object and comes to Damian, an unassuming and quiet man, whom she hopes can become a father to her two children. But Patricia is haunted by both her past and her struggles with Damian's domineering and disapproving mother. Finally, Marirosi and Alfonso begin a sweet courtship, but the long distance nature of their relationship and Marirosi's ties back to the city prevent them from taking further steps. 
From the lirst lines of dialogue to the 
final moments of 
1:rndits roll, a bus the movie, strains
Flores de Otro Mundo
packed with laugh­of racism prevent ing and talkative any ehances of women travels "Flores de Otro across the Spanish Mundo" from countryside Director: Icfar Bolla in becoming a sim­towards a seduded Writers: Iciar Bollain and Julio ple romance. The village. What are Uamazares women on the bus tlwy looking for'! Starring: Lissete Mejia and Luis Tosar are not there sim­
MtHI, of course. A ru rat town with a disproportionate number of eligible baelwlors is hosting a get-together in the hopes of ceasing their sexual frustration and loneliness by l'inding themselves companions among the women who have just arrivr.d. By the end of the first dance, several eouples have paired ofT. 
Hich middle-age eonstruetion worker Carmnlo has brought a beautiful Cuban girl Milady primarily in the hopes that she will meet his physkal needs. Milady sr.es Carnwlo as a way out of Cuba and into a life of morr. luxury, but her social personality and emotions mak(l her reluctant to linally commit to a life that is better, but not necessarily the one she wants. Dominican Patricia veers away 
ply because they 
are hoping for a romantic lling, but rather because they need Spanish husbands who will protect them from the constant demand for identification papers that relentlessly debilitates their lives. However, these women are often seen as sex objects because of both their gender and their ethnicity. 
"Flores de Otro Mundo" is also a state­ment about the human need for compan­ionship, particularly the relationship between a husband and wife. "Flores de Otro Mundo" often does this by painting all the wrong ways relationships can exist, but also through the great celebra­tion that occurs when each bus full of women arrives -a band follows them as they are paradod through the stroots and children look on them with amaze­ment. 

"Flores de Otro Mundo" also approaches the subject of family. The audience watehes as 
Patricia takes great risks for the sake of her children after their father left them and struggles with Damian's moth­er, Milady longs for the family she tore herself away from for the chance of a better life and as people band together to make their own families, even if they aren't actually related. 
Despite its depressing themes, "Flores de otro mundo" does not devolve into melodrama and manages to remain a buoyant and enjoyable film. It is spiced with jokes (some dirty, some sweet) and an upbeat soundtrack. One cannot help but laugh at Milady's interesting choke of fashion or the two old men that wan­der the village, watching the escapades of all the movie's central eouples, just waiting for something intnrnsting to hap­.• pen. Finally, "Flores de Otro Mundo" does not end without hope. Some things are left unlinished and some things arr. brokr.n, but love has not disappeared. 
Don't let the subtitles and foroign set­ting scare you, the themes of "Flores de Otro Mundo" and facets of life it reveals are universal. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 
-------------------------------. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, March 6, 2006 
ND TRACK 
Irish make statement at Alex Wilson Invite 
Seven individuals and one relay team ran well enough to qualify for the NCAA Championships in Fayetville, Ark. 
By JASON GALVAN Sports Writer  meter). Tim Moore (men's 3,000-meter) and A.J. Andrassy (men's 3,000-meter) all met the  Madia. "The plan that coach and I talked about just worked, and I  said. "The way it got messy and how I was boxed in, I was frus­trated, but that's the way racing  "The four of the fastest times in the nation were set here, and after running against some of  
provisional qualifying stan­ was really confident getting the  goes sometimes. I'm still going  the best teams, we know where  
The Notre Dame men's and  dards.  auto bid was a doable goal,"  to the NCAAs, and in hindsight,  we stand in relation to the oth­ 
women's track and field teams  Senior  distance  runner  Madia said. "I was very fortu­ it all worked out O.K."  ers, and have an idea of what  
put on stellar performances this  Stephanie  Madia  (women's  nate  my  teammate  Molly  Chamney's mark of 1:48.62,  we ~eed to do going into nation­ 
past  weekend  at  the  Alex  5,000-meter) earned an auto­ Huddle set the pace during the  which he posted at the Meyo  als.  
Wilson Invitational, with seven  matic bid to the NCAA champi­ race and took some of the pres­ Invitational, still stands as the  The Irish men's and women's  
individual Irish athletes qualify­ onships. In addition, her time of  sure off. Leading takes a lot of  No. 14 time in the nation for the  teams now turn their attention  
ing  for  the  NCAA  champi­ 16:02.14 was enough to break  energy, and it was great having  800-meter  run  and will be  toward the NCAA meet coming  
onships to be held Friday in  the old record in the women's  her there to do it."  enough for him to make the  up this week and the prepara­ 
Fayetville, Ark.  5,000-meter of 16:15.06, set by  Thomas Chamney ran in the  championship meet. This will  tion which goes along with it.  
The men's dis- Wake  Forest's  signature event of  be the first time  But unlike the early season  
tance medley relay team also  'Tm also really  Anne Bersagel in 2003.  the Alex Wilson, the men's BOO­ "/ had wanted to  he will be running in an individual  high-intensity training sessions, athletes participating this week  
met the standard at Loftus Sports Center. In addi­tion, an old school  proud ofour girls, stepping up to the competition. "  "It was just a matter of getting into the right race and running at the  meter run. Coming off a dom­inant first place performance at  win it, in front of the home crowd and all."  event at nationals and, in addition, he also will be competing as a  at nationals are looking to rest up and stay fresh for the biggest run of the indoor season. "This week you have to be  
record  fell,  as  level  I've  been  the Big East meet,  part of the men's  relaxed as possible," Chamney  
sophomore Jacqueline Carter broke a 13-year  Stephanie Madia Irish distance runner  training at," Madia said. "''m also really proud  Chamney had another solid out­ing with a second  Thomas Chamney Irish distance runner  distance medley relay team with Kurt Benninger,  said. "Our workouts won't be tough, I'm just going to stay relaxed, do a tune-up workout,  
old mark in the  of our girls. step­ place finish at the  Ryan Postel and  and take it easy.  
800-meter run. Carter's time of  ping up to the competition and  Invitational. Despite what he  Adam Currie.  "I have a full week to recover,  
2:08.75 was enough to surpass  taking ownership of the meet  described as a "messy" race,  The Irish relay team  and  I just want to do the little things  
Erica  Peterson's  mark  of  with their fast times."  With  runners jostling for posi­ squads from Illinois, Villanova,  that help any athlete feel great,  
2:10.13 set in 1993.  Madia was also thankful for  tion, the Irish junior was still  Oral Roberts, Alabama and  like getting enough sleep and  
Maryann Erigha (women's 60­ the support of her teammates in  able to step up at the end of the  Washington all met the NCAA  staying stretched. Things like  
meter  and  200-meter),  her own performance.  Senior  race and make a strong finish.  provisional standard at the  that will help keep me ready to  
Jacqueline Carter (women's  distance runner Molly Huddle  "I had wanted to win it, in  Invitational.  go for Friday."  
800-meter), Thomas Chamney  set the pace during the 5,000­ front of the home crowd and all,  "The Alex Wilson is the pre­ 
(men's  800-meter),  Amy  meter race  and helped take  and I was disappointed not get­ miere setting for the distance  Contact Jason Galvan at  
Kohlmeyer (women's 3,000­ some  of the  burden  off of  ting the auto-bid," Chamney  medley relay," Chamney said.  jgalvan@nd.edu  


FENCING 


Ten fencers qualify for national tournament in Houston 
place Saturday were men's "I think we'll get them both part was knowing that I was spot with Notre Dame for men.
ND places well in the 
epeeist Aaron Adjemian and in, because they both fenced one bout away from qualifying, "I think OSU is kind of out of Midwest Regionals at women's foilist Addi Nott, really well this year," Bautista and essentially for women's the running, but now Penn 
while Patrick Ghattas and said. foil, it was a Northwestern and State will be a big challenge,home during weekend Valerie Providenza took third "Amy had a very good season Notre Dame showdown," because they qualified all 
place in men's and women's and the at-large will be with Bautista said. "For each quali­twelve," Adjemian said. 
sabre, respectively. her," Dudas said. "I think that fying spot, Notre Dame was The official qualifying list 
By JACK THORNTON "[The most exciting part was] both of them will be in, so I fencing against Northwestern, will be made public on 
Sports Writer I think coming out of pools think we'll have a full team­so that was really excitng, and Tuesday. 
undefeated, because I normally a young team -but a vicious it was really exciting to see the "I think we have a really 
Notre Dame finished have a hard time in prelimi­team, hungry for success." guys fence well against Ohio good team... we have a lot of Saturday's Midwest Regionals nary bouts," Adjemian said. Ohio State, widely considered State." freshman but we have a lot of with ten fencers in automatic In the epee, Karol Kostka Notre Dame's biggest rival With only nine Buckeyes cur­talent and I think we have a qualifying spots and an addi­and Madeleine Stephan throughout the season, quali­rently qualified, Ohio State's good chance," Adjemian said. tional two in solid position to grabbed third place to qualify fied the maximum of six quest for a National The team will practice pick up at-large bids for the for Nationals. Foilists Mark fencers on the men's side, but Championship just got slim­together over the next week NCAA Championship March Kubik (4th) and Melanie managed only three from their mer. Notre Dame can't breathe before heading to Texas for the 16-19 in Houston, Texas. Bautista (5th) and sabreist women's team. just yet, though. Penn State tournament, which begins the 
"We have a very young team, Matt Stearns (6th) also finished "Ohio State ... qualified nine has become the greatest Thursday during Spring Break. and I think they did their high enough to qualify. directly and they're waiting for threat, as the Nittany Lions "I think we will have a close best," assistant coach Zoltan The squad is confident one at large, but the women's managed to qualify the maxi­fight with Penn State and we Dudas said. "They were much regarding the chances of foilist foil was able to knock out any­mum of 12 fencers. will see if they can beat us or more nervous than last year's Jakub Jedrkowiak (5th) and one from Ohio State from mak­"Overall, the team we have we can beat them," Dudas team, since they are mostly sabreist Amy Orlando (7th) to ing it, so they can only get 10 to worry about is Penn State, said. "I am very confident, freshmen fighting and they earn the two at-large bids for at max while a full team because they qualified a full because maybe we do not have don't know the qulification sys­the NCAAs. Sixty percent of the requires 12," Bautista said. team at the Regionals, and the best talent, but the attitude tem." d qualification is based on an The weekend also featured they've always been big con­and the work ethic is better 
Sophomore women's sabreist individual's performance in the several intense match-ups on tenders," Bautista said. than I can ever remember." Marie! Zagunis led the team by Regionals, with the other 40 the women's side between Penn State is currently winning all nine of her bouts to percent coming from perform­Notre Dame and Northwestern. ranked No. 2 among women's Contact Jack Thornton at take first place. Taking second ance throughout the season. "I think the most exciting squads and is tied for the No. 2 jthornt4@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE 
A 4 bdrm, 2bth newly remodeled house near campus. $90,000. Call 220-8666. 
3 BDRM RANCH ON JUDAY LAKE. WALK TO CAMPUS. 329-0308 
Complete PS2 system, works well. $100. mcarrasc@nd.edu. I buy broken PS2s. 

FoR RENT 
515 St.Joe: 7 bdrm,area of student rentals, $1200/mo. 574-250-7653 
Furn.house Corby. 574-309-3105 
3-6 BDRMS. $195/PERSON MO.,AVAIL.NOW,SUMMER,06/07 329-0308 
123 ND Ave. 3-bdrm,1.5 bath. Call574-229-0149. 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED­ROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 3.4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web site:mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary 574-993-2208 or grooms@ourwebspot.net 
Area houses and apartments for rent. Log onto MichianaRentals.com. Caii574-993-RENT (7368) 
COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINI­UMS AVAILABLE FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED­ROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY. 235­7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. 
A 4 bdrm, 2bth house near campus. All appliances included. Pets wei­come. $1350. Call220-8666. 
Two story house completely remod­eled 2003. Ready for immediate occupancy or next school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, central station monitored security system, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student housing, Laundromat next door, basement available for storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc., new furnace and central air, new kitchen includ­ing new stove and refrigerator, large living room for TV or entertaining, free trash removal. Call 289-4071. 
2-3-4 BEDROOMS. Immediate & 2006-07. Security,phone included. 315-3215. ndstudentrentals.com 
1-7 bdrm. homes starting@ $200/student, 24-hr.maint.,free pool tables, 1st mo. free. Call574-250­7653 or visit bluegoldrentals.com 
HISTORIC HOME-CHAPIN PK. 2800 s/f+base,LR w/f.p. 4 bdrms,study + finished 3rd fl. Full appliances+ WID, 3 porches. 413 W. NAVARREI$1250+util. 574­2322167 or 574-2613184 www.xog.com/property/413WestNa varre.html 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don not go it alone.\! you or some­one you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude. CSC, at 1-7819. For more informatio11, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Eurydice: I cannot get you out of my mind. We were meant to be togeth­er for Eternity. Be mine. Aristaeus. 

AROUND THE NATION 
Monday, March 6, 2006 CoMPILED rRoM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NHL 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
tPa rn n~1:ord OTL points NY Rangers 36-16 8 80 Philadelphia 33-18 10 76 New Jersey 32-22 7 71 NY Islanders 27-28 4 58 Pittsburgh 14-36 11 39 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
points

hHLill record OTL 5 85
Ottawa 40·14 Buffalo 38·16 5 
81 Montreal 29·22 
8 66 Boston 25·26 
10 60 5 59

Toronto 27-28 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
tPIHll rrword OTL points 
Carolina 42-14 4 88 
Tampa Bay 32-14 4 68 
Allanta 28-27 6 62 
Florida 23-29 8 54 
Washington 20-33 6 46 
Western Conference, Central Division team •·m:ord OTL points Detroit 41·14 5 87 
Nashville 35·19 7 71 
Columbus 24·35 2 50 
Chicago 19·31 9 47 
St. Louis 17·32 9 43 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
t<•am record OTL points 
Calgary 35-18 7 77 
Vancouver 35·22 5 75 
Colorado 34-22 6 74 
Edmonton 32·21 8 72 
Minnesota 29-28 5 63 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
tmun •·eeord OTL points 
Dallas 39·18 3 81 
Los Angeles 34·23 5 73 
Anaheim 28·20 12 68 
San Jose 28·23 8 64 
Phoenix 28·29 4 60 
Big East Basketball 
team conj overall 
1 Connecticut 14-2 27-2 
2 VIllanova 14-2 24-3 
3 West Virginia 11-5 20·9 
4 Pittsburgh 10-6 21·6 
4 Georgetown 10-6 19·8 
6 Marquette 10-6 20·9 
6 Seton Hall 9-7 18·10 
8 Cincinnati 8·8 19·11 
8 Syracuse 7·9 19·11 
10 Rutgers 7-9 17·12 
11 Louisville 6·10 18·11 
12 NOTRE DAME 6·10 15·12 

around the dial 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL Colonial Athletic Conference Championship, 7 p.m., ESPN2 
Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference Championship, 9 p.m., ESPN2 
West Coast Conference Championship, 9 p.m., ESPN 
WOMEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL Big Ten Conference Championship, 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NHL New York Islanders at Washington, 7 p.m., OLN 
NFL 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The NFL and its players' union broke off talks Sunday evening, leaving dozens of veterans in danger of becoming salary-cap casu­alties before free agency begins a minute after mid­night Monday. 
The breakdown, though surprising, was typical of the topsy-turvy negotia­tions, so far: Just when things seemed darkest, they got back on track; and when it appeared a deal could be struck, talks broke down. As they did when the union called off the talks. 

"The talks ended after the NFL gave us a proposal which provided a percent­age of revenues for the players which would be less than they received over the last 12 years," said Gene Upshaw, execu­tive director of the NFL Players Association. "Arter suggesting we extend the waiver deadline from six o'clock to 10 this evening, they gave us a new pro­posal which was worse than their prior oll'er. Quite naturally, we rejected that proposal and saw no need to continue meeting." 
But llarold Henderson, the NI•'J.'s executive vice president for labor rela­tions, said the union rejected a proposal that would have added $577 million for players in 2006 compared to 2005 and $1.5 billion in the six years of the extension. "It's an unfortunate situation for the players, the fans and the league," Henderson said.The cuts started almost immediately. 
Oakland eut quarterback Kerry Collins, saving $9.2 in cap space. Center Kevin Mawae was cut by the New York Jets, although he probably would have been gone anyway because he is 35 and missed the final 10 games of last sea­son with a triceps injury, 

Other big names could go as tnams try to squneze under a salary eap of' $94.5 million. II' a dnal had been negotiated, thn cap might have benn $10 mil­lion higher -in othnr words, allowing tmuns to keep some of the playnrs. 
Thesn negotiations were by far the most difficult sinee the NFL and thn union first agrend to fren ageney and a salary cap in 1992, 11nding years of labor unrest that indmlnd playnr strikns in 19R2 and 19R7. Tlw contract has been extended snveral timns sinen thnn, most of the time with nase. 
IN BRIEF 

Cole to miss 6-to-8 weeks Hall of Farner Puckett hospi­Bryant will be centerpiece 
PITTSBUHGH -Carolina left wing talized after stroke of revamped U.S. team Erik Cole will miss at least the rest of FOHT MYEHS, Fla. -Hall of Farner Kobe Bryant will bP the enntor­the regular season with a compres­Kirby Puckett had a stroke at his piece of the new-look USA BaskPtball sion fracture in a vertebra in his Arizona home Sunday and was taken team that is expeetnd to improve neck caused when he was driven to a hospital for surgery, the upon a disappointing bronzn mndal headfirst into the boards by Minnesota Twins announced from at tho 2004 Olympics. Pittsburgh's Brooks Orpik during a 7-their spring training camp. Bryant brings NBA championship 5 Hurricanes victory Saturday night. The 44-year-old Puckett, who led credentials and high-powornd scor­
Cole, tied for second on the team in the Twins to two World Series titles ing, joining 20 other playnrs snleeted scoring, will be out at least 6-to-8 was taken to a Scottsdale hospital. Sunday for a possible spot on the weeks -a major loss for what cur­"The Minnesota Twins and major world championship and 200R 
rently is the team with the NJIJ:s best league baseball ask fans to keep Beijing Olympie teams. record. The Hurricanes have not Kirby and his family in their "It's his time," USA Basketball ruled out Cole returning for the play­thoughts and prayers," the team said coach Mike Krzyzowski said of of1's, which begin in mid-April. in a statement. Bryant. "lie's 27 years old now. lie 
Cole had scored two goals for the Hon Shapiro, who was Puckett's should try to assume a position of second night in a row before he was agent, said he had been in contact leadership in the team. I would think rammed into the boards from behind with Puckett's family Sunday but he's very hungry to do this. I sen him 
by Orpik as the Hurricanes were try­would not confirm his whereabouts. fitting in very, very w<lll." ing to hold off the Penguins, who "We're all praying for his recovery," Bryant will bP making his Olympie trailed 5-0 and 6-1 before rallying. Shapiro said. debut. lie was supposPd to play in 
Cole was slammed into the boards Twins center fielder Torii Hunter Athens, but withdrew because of his near the right cirele after he sat out Minnesota's exhibition game sexual assault trial. Criminal charges appeared to lose his footing just against the Hed Sox after learning of eventually were dropped, and he set­
before Orpik hit him. Puckett's stroke. tled a civil suit with his accuser. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, March 6, 2006 

BASEBALL 




Offense struggles in the Metrodome 
By KEN FOWLER and 
HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Spons Writers 
Notre Dame suffered two shutouts and scored just one run in this weekend's Dairy Queen Classic at the Metrodome in Minneapolis, Minn., ending a streak of 215 games in which the Irish had scored at least once. 
After Nebraska blew out Notre Dame 11-1 Friday, the Irish sur­rendered eight runs to host Minnesota Saturday and lost an extra-innings affair with Arizona Sunday, leaving the team on a five-game losing streak. 
"Confidence is a very fragile thing," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. "Obviously, it's frustrating when we only score one run in three games -it's hard to win." 
Arizona 2, Notre Dame 0 (10) 
Notre Dame found its pitching groove Sunday behind Jeff Manship's 10 strikeouts and Jeff Williamson's perfect inning in relief, but the bats failed to pro­duce for the Irish as they fell 2-0 to Arizona in 10 innings to drop their fifth straight. 
The Wildcats used a hit bats­men, a triple and a sacrifice fly in the tenth to score their two runs in the fmal contests for the two teams in the Dairy Queen Classic. 
With no outs in the extra frame, second baseman Brad Boyer tripled home third base­man Colt Sedbrook off Irish reliever Kyle Weiland, and Arizona's Jason Donald drove in Boyer with a sacrifice fly to cen­ter. 
"Kyle Weiland was really good," Mainieri said. "But sooner or later, something has to break." 
Notre Dame looked like it would get on the board early, but a strong defensive play kept the game scoreless. 
On a 2-2 count, Irish freshman first-baseman Jeremy Barnes lined a two-out single to right field in the first, but Arizona's John Gaston threw Brett Lilley out at the plate, ending the bot­tom of the inning. 
Barnes' single was the first Irish hit with a runner on base since Friday but failed to get Lilley across. Barnes finished 3-4 on the afternoon. 
"Unfortunately, the runner got thrown out at the plate, but that was a big hit," Mainieri said. "If he doesn't get thrown out at the plate, maybe when we get that first run, we relax a little bit more and pull through." 
Manship gave up just three hits and two walks in six innings before handing the ball over to Williamson in the· seventh. Manship's 10 strikeouts were a career high and the most by an Irish mound-dweller since Tom Thornton struck out 12 Golden Flashes in a 2004 NCAA elimina­tion game. 
"Jeff Manship today was absolutely phenomenal," Mainieri said. "Joey Willimason was great when he came in for an inning." 
Minnesota 8, Notre Dame 0 
The host team not only defeat­ed but shutout Notre Dame on Saturday, as Minnesota (1-4) righthander Cole DeVries threw six shutout innings, giving up four hits and striking out three. 

"Even though we got shut out, I think we showed good signs at the plate," Mainieri said of his team's seven-hit performance. "We really hit the ball hard, so we've got to remain positive." 
The Irish were unable to con­vert on multiple scoring opportu­nities, going 0-for-7 at the plate with runners on base. The shutout marked the first time the Irish have been held scoreless since the 2002 season. 
'Things just didn't go well for us;" Mainieri said. "We had a couple chances early in the game but d.~dn't take advantage of them. 
Notre Dame righthander Jeff Samardzija got the loss after allowing five runs in four innings of work, evening his record to 1­
1. The Golden Gophers got on the board in the bottom of the second, pushing three runs across after a two-run double by freshman Nate Hanson, followed by an RBI single by Tony Leseman. In the fifth, the Golden Gophers added two more after two RBI doubles by Dan Lyons and Mike Mee. Minnesota fin­ished off the scoring in the sixth when it scored three more runs. 
Meanwhile, the Irish offense struggled, registering only seven hits, two of which were by short­stop Greg Lopez. 
"I have all the confidence in the world that things will be all right," Mainieri said. "This is so normal for us, to start slow. The important thing is that we keep our chins up and keep battling." 
No. 4 Nebraska 11, Notre Dame 1 
Nebraska rode the arm of its ace Joba Chamberlain on Friday, as he struck out 11 of the 25 bat­ters he faced in seven shutout innings. Chamberlain, rated by Baseball American as the nation's No. 12 pro prospect, gave up just three hits -all sin­gles -and one walk for Nebraska. 
Nebraska got on the score­board early, pushing one run across in the first, two in the sec­ond and four in the third against Notre Dame starter Tom Thornton. Thornton, who pitched seven scoreless innings last week against Indiana State, gave up seven runs on 10 hits in 2.1 innings, picking up the loss. 
Nebraska cleanup hitter Luke Gorsett hit for the cycle, going 4­for-5 with a single in the first, a homer in the third and a double in the fourth and a triple in the eighth. He had a part in five of his team's runs. 
"When we have a tough game like we did against Nebraska and have to turn around and play the next day, you hope that they can put it behind them," Mainieri said. 
Notre Dame avoided the shutout in the eighth when left­fielder Danny Dressman hit a one-out triple and centerfielder Alex Netty knocked him in with an RBI single. 
Notes: 
+ Irish standout catcher Sean Gaston injured his arm in Saturday's game and sat out Sunday against Arizona. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu and Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


It's possible at St. John's University-the only American University that offers this unique opportunity for graduate study. Whether you are 
interested in pursuing an 
M.B.A. degree in International Finance, International Business or Marketing Management, or an M.A. degree in Government and Politics with a specialization in International Relations, our expert professors and the Eternal City r itself, will help you prepare for the global arena. 
Interested'? 
Learn More info@stjohns.edu www.stjohns.edu/learnmore/00200.sju Tel (212) 815-9216 Ext. 2 

NOW SELLING 
FROM THE 1705 
UNITS 

AVAILABLE FOR 
574-273-2000 
FALL 

-WALK TO CAMPUS -2-3 STORY FLOORPLANS -2 CAR ATTACHED GARAGES -2.5+ BATHROOMS -2-4 BEDROOMS 
MODEL OPEN WED-FRI 12-6PM 

Monday, March 6, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish con1eback is not enough to beat Cornell 
BENGAL BOUTS-fiNALS 
McGill wins in nailbiter 
"The mail never stops" Shapot delivers in the 150-pound division 
In the 140-pound class, Hlghlighter" O'Connell 
By TIM DOUGHERTY junior· Michael "My roal name At the 150-pouncl level. 
Sports Writcr is Mnrc" llennig unanimously sophomore Bret "The Mail 
down1HI Lawrence "The Never Stops" Shapot. even on 
Boston Massacre" Sullivan. Sunday, delivered a split­
llndPr tlw lights of thn At thn bnll, Mere, last year's dneision victory against .Joyrn Cnntnr Sunday, thn runrwr-up. gainnd the upper freshman .John "The NotrP llamn (;Inn Club hnltnd hand as his fists flew at llighlighter" O'Conrwll. out tlw national anllwm. just Sullivan with robotic tenacity. Though thn light was close, in tillll' l'or to thl' 7Mh annual Mnrc's quick latnral movn­Shapot -evidently gone Bnngal Bouts finalists to bnlt mnnt and boundlnss 111wrgy postal -was thn l'ight's narh ollwr in pursuit of tlw set the tonn for thn mateh, aggn~ssor throughout. Shapot I'OVf'tPd rhampionship. dueking away from attacks contH\eted on several big lnf't 
and •~ountering with erushing hooks from the lef'ty's invert­
125: Matthew Gelchion v. blows that twice knocked out ed address, taking thn edge Will Marra Sullivan's mouthpiece -in round two with a left-right 
F rl' s h man Mat tlw w silencing a Fislwr llall eon­package that put O'Connell (;Pirhion outlastnd Will tingent's chants of "Sully." against the ropes, before a Marra in a split dncision vie­Sullivan had a ehancn to big blow to the head at the tory in tlw 125-pound divi­pin Mere against the ropes, beII. sion. but again Mnre slid away O'Connell reeovered strong­
(;Pichion staynd lownr than from a punch and delivered ly in the third round, until Mana. dodging and then his own to take the light. Shapot again baeknd him ('X pI 0 ding with s t I' 0 n g Ieft against tho ropes. O'Connell and right lwadshots to an 145: Andrew McGill v. fought him ofT and returned Pxpos!'d Marra, resulting in Tommy "Fightln' for milk" to sender a erushing punch an narly standing night count. Forr at the t1nal bell, but the high­Marra rallied in thn second Tlw 145-pound match pit­light of his match was not round, jarring Gnlehion's ted power versus speed, as enough to stop the bleeding, lwadgear loose with a hit and junior Andrew McGill nar­or The Mail. nvnntually hitting him into rowly defeated junior Tommy his own corner af'tnr a faeial "Fightin' for Milk" Forr. 155: Chris "The People's blow that snnt spit flying. MeGill, whose hair stood up Champ" Calderone v. 
Tlw third round turnnd into to an Ivan Drago-like spike, Zachary "Zach Attack" Jara a playground slugfest, as reared back and launched For the 155-pound title, hoth lighters traded punelws poworful punches into big junior Chris "The People's to nxposnd lwads-ineluding first-round points. A taller, Champ" Calderone also an uppnreut that knocked trimmer Forr countered, tak­became the official champ, (;nlchion into a standing ing the second-round edge by knocking off Zachary "Zach night. With strong erowd sup­throwing quick jabs and Attaek" .lara by unanimous port from the men of Fishnr daneing away from a frus­decision. llall. an nxhausted Gnlchion trated McGill, whose fists In a test of two technically hung in for tlw win. could only hit the air once sound boxers, successful 
occupied by Forr. punehes were hard to land. 
132: 
Krls "EI Azteca" Perez MeGill responded in the Though many lists 11ew, they 

v. 
Chris lzagulre final round with a sudden connected with the fists of 


Thn 132-pound light lasted barrage of blows that put the opposing lighter. just morn than a minute, Forr in the corner early. Forr In the second round, aft•~r thn rnferne stopped could not keep up his earlier Calderone was able to pene­frnshman Kristophnr Perez's paco, and one of McGill's trate .lara's arms, landing a mauling of sophomore Chris fioree right hooks connected couple shots to the face that lzaguire. From tlw hell. a with Forr's face, the smack put .lara on defense. The l'inry l'nrnz thn~w hard left revnrberating throughout the final round remained a stale­and rights to lzaguire's !wad audienee before dying into mate of bloeked blows and as if hn wnrn looking for the typieally vacant plush tie-ups, until Calderonn lun e h m o rw y to add to his seats of the basketball arena. forced in a eouple of hooks, trophy. McGill's elout proved just too to take the point lead over 
much for ForT's agility in the .lara in a mateh eloser than 
140: Michael "My real split dneision. the decision implied. name Is Mere" Hennig v. Lawrence "The Boston 150: Bret "The Mail Never Contact Tim Dougherty at Massacre" Sullivan Stops" Shapot v. John "The tdougher@nd.edu 
Spacious Apartments 
Fantastic Location 
Great Rent Specials 
Weight Room & Business Center 
Huge Swimming Pool 
Sauna. Whirlpool. & Free Tanning 
Indoor/Outdoor Basketball & Tennis 
Gated Community 
Castle Point Apartments 574 272 8110 18011 Cleveland Road South Bend • IN 46637 

Big Red score three late goals to hold off ND in Saturday's loss 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Spons Writer 
In a battle of top-15 teams, No. 12 Notre Dame {1-1) rallied but could not ovnreome its slow start in a 9-6 loss to No. 8 Cornoll {2-0) Saturday. The gamn, played on the campus of Benedictine University, was the first ever Division I lacrosse game played in the Chicago area, according to und.com, and was attended by 3,523 fans. 
Trailing 6-4 entering the fourth quarter, Noire Dame gave up three unanswered goals, pushing Cornell's lead to 9-4 with only 1 :44 remaining in the game. Cornell senior All­American midfielcler Joe Boulukos seornd two of the three goals and finished the game with a hat trick. 
"IBoulukosl is an All­American, and he played like one," Irish coaeh Kevin Corrigan said af'ter the game. 
499.00 month 2 Bedroom ONLY­
679.00 month 
~ &MdX ~ 
No Application 
~ 
"lie was very assPrtive, and lw 
made a number plays when hn 
had the ehance to." 
The Irish fought back as sen­ior attack Pat Walsh and senior midf'ielder Matt Hyan scored goals 18 seconds apart to cut the delieit to 9-6 with just over one minute left to play. But that was as elose as Notre Damn would conHl. 
"It just seemed likP we w1m1 in a funk out thern," senior co­captain D.J Driscoll said. "Wiwn they jumped out to a three goal lead. it got in our heads, and we overreacted. We were only clown by two at halftime, but the look in the guys' eyes was like we were down by five or six." 
The Irish played from behind the entirn game. 
Cornell jumped out to an early 3-0 lead. as the Big Hml tallied the first of thnir two runs of three straight. goals on thn day. 
"We didn't como out the way :-;vn wa_nte~l to," Corrigan said. 
Wn (hdn t nxncute our ganw plan, and we didn't play wilh th~; intPnsity that we ruwdnd to. 
Notre Damn rneovPnHI from its shaky start to cut t.hn Big Hnd lead to :3-2 in thn second quarter, but a eontrovnrsial goal from Cornell's Eric Pittard, seornd with no limn left on tho dock, pushnd t.hn Big Hml's IPad to 4-2 at half'tinw. 
Less than a minute into tlw second half, senior mid 11Pidnr Matt Karwnck scored an unas­sisted goal to bring thn Irish within two. ThP goal extnnd11d Karweck's point. stnHLk to tnn straight games. 
Saturday's loss evens Notrn Damn's reeord at 1-1. and thn Irish will have little limn to dwnll on their garnn wit.lt Cornell as thny face Nort.h Carolina, anotlwr top 25 oppo­rwnt, nnxt wenknnd. 
"We nend to start prnparing ourselves for that ganw right. from thn beginning on Monday," Corrigan said. "We havn to start. doing the littln things that pre­pare us for tlw ganw, and that's sonH~thing you havn to do 1wnry wnek. We didn't do it last wnek, but it's sonwtlting we'ro vnry r.apable of'." 
Not.rn I>anw's takes tlw liPid against. North Carolina Saturday at 1 p.m. at honw. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbog@nd.cdu 

-~ --~-----~~--------­
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, March 6, 2006 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 


Irish beat Illini in third shutout of the season 
ND stays undefeated on the year by beating Illinois in another dominating performance at the Eck Tennis Pavillion 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
The No. 5 Irish (11-0) kept their undefeated record in tact as they shut out the No. 49 Illini -their third shutout this season. The win extends Notre Dame's streak to five straight matches against Big Ten Conference opponents. 
"We don't look at it as a shut out as much as a big victory," sophomore Brook Buck said. "It took a lot of fighting from u s " The Irish began this hard­fought contest by claiming two of the three doubles matches to earn the doubles point. 
However, the No. 2 team of triumph over the Illini's Momei juniors Christian and Catrina Qu and Shivani Dave' at No. 3. Thompson suffered their sec­The Irish duo now stands at ond loss this season. 10-1 this season. 
"[The contest was difficult at Next off the courts were first] because everyone is out Notre Dame's No. 29 senior 
to get us  since  twosome  of  
we're undefeat­ed," senior  "We started offslow,  Buck and fresh­man Kelcy Tefft,  
Lauren Connelly  but after the doubles  who  topped  
said. "We start­ed off slow, but after the dou­ point, it went pretty smoothly."  Illinois' Brianna Knue and Alejandra Meza  
bles  point,  it  Cuadra 8-4  at  
went  pretty  Lauren Connelly  No. 2, securing  
smoothly." The first to  Irish senior  the points.  doubles - 
walk  off  the  However, the  

courts for the Irish was the Irish pairing of Christian and No. 49 pairing of Connelly and Catrina Thompson could not senior Kiki Stastny with an 8-3 overcome Illinois' Macall Harkins and Emily Wang, los­ing 8-3. 
"Christian and I weren't at our best today and that really hurt us," Catrina Thompson said. "We are just going to have to rebound for next week and keep practicing hard and not overlooking any of our opponents." In singles, No. 27 Catrina Thomspon recorded a 6-4, 6-3 win over Harkins at No. 1. The win improved Thompson's record to 15-6 on the season. 
Playing at No. 2 for the Irish was Christian Thompson, who downed Qu 6-0, 6-3. 
Following at No. 3 was Buck with a 6-0, 6-2 win over Knue and now stands at 13-6 on the season. 
The win at No. 4 came from Tefft as she defeated Wang 6­2, 6-4. 
Stastny's win at No. 5 contin­ued the streak after topping Meza Cuadra 6-1, 6-0. 
Irish freshman Katie Potts completed the sweep in singles as she defeated Dave' 6-4, 6-1. 
"Everyone is on top of their game," Connelly said. "Illinois is really energetic, so it was a good win for us." 
The Irish return to play on Friday when they face Western Michigan at the Eck Tennis Pavilion at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

ND SOFTBALL 
Tvvo extra innings losses lovver tea111's record to even 7-7 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 

The Irish continued their season with a disappointing performance in Tulsa, Okla., this weekend, losing three of five games played in the Best Western Airport Festival and dropping their record to 7-7. 
Notre Dame lost its first game against No. 17 Nebraska, 5-3, in eight innings Friday. Despite leading into the seventh inning, the Irish, behind pitcher Heather Booth, gave up a crucial sacrifice fly to pinch hitter Brittany Pascale in the top of the sev­enth. Notre Dame was unable to post the winning run in the bottom of the seventh, and the game moved to extra innings. 
Although Booth was able to get the first two outs of the inning, a misplayed ground ball by third baseman Linda Kohan extended the Huskers' eighth, giving them the one extra out needed to start a rally. Nebraska tacked on three unearned runs in the inning, and Notre Dame could not respond in the bottom half, adding only one run. 
Notre Dame's second game, a 2-1 loss to Tulsa, showed more frustration at the plate for the Irish. The squad was only 4-for-26 as a team and failed to record an extra base hit. Notre Dame's only run came in the fourth, on an RBI single by shortstop Sara Schoonaert. But the Golden Hurricanes responded in the bottom of the fourth with RBis by left fielder Brook Smart and catcher Leanne Pepper. 
After the rally by Tulsa in the fourth, the Irish could not muster any offense, despite pitcher Brittany Bargar ­now 3-2 on the year-holding Tulsa to only the two runs with nine strikeouts in the game. 
The Irish bats awoke in the third game of the tournament, a 10-1 win over Northern Iowa in five innings. The 



Slz~lene (Sizzlelini®)­
On Tuesdays, get our specialty 
for TWO for only $10.95! A sizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B;;)-Iefie (Bellini)­
A frosty raspberry, green apple or peach Italian work of art for $2! · 
·, 

Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelint Bellini Tuesdays! 
pitching duties for the Irish were split by Bargar, who picked up the win, and Kenya Fuemmeler, who gave up the only run. 
But Notre Dame's real strength in this game was at the plate. The Irish hit .444 as a team, scoring 10 runs on eight hits. Cleanup hitter Meagan Ruthrauff led the offense with a three-run home run in the first to start the scoring. 
Booth improved her record to 3-4 in Notre Dame's fourth game, a 5-2 win against 
Kansas. Booth continued to pitch well, giving up five hits and striking out 10 batters in a complete game win. 
The Irish opened the scoring in the fifth inning with a two­out rally that lead to four unearned runs. Although Notre Dame did provide its own hitting throughout the game, the team was able to take full advantage of the poorly-timed Jayhawk mis­cues, especially in the fifth. 
The final game of the tour­nament for the Irish was a dis­appointing 2-1 loss to S.F. 
12th Annual 

Mini-Medical School Lecture Series 
Presented by the 
Austin in eight innings. The Irish hit the ball well through­out the game, but could never find that last hit to drive in any runs en route to stranding 12 runners on base. ohan, as the Irish dropped their second extra inning game over t 
Although the three weekend losses are disappointing, the Irish are still 7-7 overall. Due to travel delays no members of the team could be reached for comment following the games. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

Indiana University School of Medicine-South Bend 
Sponsored by the Medical Education Foundation 
Join us for 6 informative evenings as leading doctors, professionals and university/medical school professors discuss the hottest topics in medicine today. Free ofcharge and open to the general public. 
Medical professionals attending the lectures may receive 2 CME credits J)er session. The Indiana University School of Medicine is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education to provide continuing education for physicians. 
Session l, Wednesday, March 8, 2006 
"From the Fallen Officer to the Toll Road Pile Up: What it Takes to Run a Trauma Cell/er" 
Scott Thomas, M.D. South Bend, IN 

Session 2. Wednesday, March 15,2006 
Plastic Surgery: Beyond "Nip and Tuck" 
Thomas Biggs, M.D. Houston, TX 

Session 3, Wednesrlav, March 22,2006 
''Looking at the Heart Without Going Inside: Non-Invasive Cardiac Catheteri;;ation­A Glimpse ofthe Future" Christopher Kramer, M.D. Charlottesville, VA 
Session 4, Wednesday, March 29, 2006 
"Adult Stem Cell Transplantation: Hope for the Future for Patielll.• with Neurological Injuries and Spinal Cord Injuries" 
Steven Hinderer, M.D. Ann Arhor, Ml 
Session 5, Wednesday, April 5, 2006 
"Medicare Prescription Drug Benefits: What the Government Will om/ Will Not Do For You ·• Rudy Navari, M.D. South Bend, IN 
Session 6, Wednesday, Aprill2, 2006 
"Surgical Treatment ofObesity: More Than u Clip and Cure" 
Greg Credi, M.D. South Bend, IN 
Time: 7:00-9:00 p.m. (E.S. T.) Place: Indiana University School of Medicine-South Bend Raclin-Carmichael Hall 1234 Notre Dame Avenue South Rend, IN 4MI7 (The southeast corner of the Notre Dame main entrance ut An~eht Blvd.) Free parking in the lot adjacent to the building. To register, or for more information, call Jami at (574) 647-7389. 
Monday, March 6, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
referee was forced to pause in the first round, but the sions, but for the most part, keeping him at a distance. the fight so the trainers could crowd -very much biased Ward was successful. Unfortunately for Bush, this
Bengals 
tnnd to his cut. Gough towards Breslin -was on its In the second round, both newfound success was short­nmerged from the timeout feet. l'ighters seemed to abandon lived, as Schroeder connected
continued from page 24 
with good defense and a few In the second round, Breslin their conservative plan as with a very strong right hook -ed itself. landed a fnw solid interspnrsed jabs to take con­came out with· two quick both Golen and Ward came and then stayed in dose tlw pundws. trol of the fight. punches in an attempt to gain out swinging. Golen landed a n~st of the round. Bush again 
llausfeld eame out strong in In the second round, both control of the fight. Again, few punches, but it was Ward was unabln to get snparation. the first round, landing a boxers came out swinging but however, Nicholson used his who had the hit of the round and Schroeder landed anum­number of solid punches on neither was able to land any long reach to keep the small­when he connected to the ber of wild right hooks and the morn experiencnd solid shots. Gough looked er Breslin at a distance. face, sending Golen stumbling then a strong jab at thn bell. Schader. tired and in need of a break, Nicholson landed a number of backwards. This sent the In the third round of this 
Except for a few jabs at the so he created one -by hook­jabs and then, backing crowd into a frenzy, but championship bout, it was end of tho round, it appnared ing !Iederman in the face and Breslin into the corner, land­Golen, using his quickness, morn of the same. Schroednr Hausfeld was on his way to reopening the facial cut. The ed the 11rst solid combo of the was able to get back some once again was able to gnt tho championship. referee stopped the fight fight. momentum as the round underneath Bush, landing a 
But in the seeond round, again. Breslin struck right back, ended. number of solid combos to the Schaefer's experience showed Gough used this quick break however, landing his own The third round was much stomach and face. as he landed a nice punch to regain his energy and combo just a few seconds of the same as both fighters Bush was f'inally able to get eornbination early in the momentum that seemed to be later. carne out swinging. Golen was separation and landed a few round. After the f'ighters trad­slipping away. Out of the Toward the end of the able to get underneath Ward punches, himself, but it was IHI j a bs , t he m o rn e n t u m timeout, both fighters still round, Breslin got under­a number of times, landing a too little too late. Schroeder turned. Schaefer baeknd looked tired and neither land­neath Nicholson and landed a string of solid punches early. dosed out the fight with a llausfeld into the corner and ed many punches. number of hooks, including The fighters traded punches series of right hooks late in landed a few right hooks In the third round, Gough one to the face the got the for much of the third round tho third round and came combined with a couple of once again used a time out to crowd in an uproar. and neither fighter really sep­away with the championship jabs. Schaefer's combination his advantage. With the With the momentum -and arated himself. in the unanimous decision. eut the skin above Hausfeld's momentum seemingly on the crowd -in Breslin's In the closing seconds, how­nyo, which hied and covered !Iederman's side, Gough con­favor, Nicholson again used ever, Golen again landed a Super Heavyweight: Tony his face with blood by the end nected once again with a jab his reach to take control of few punches to close out the Cunningham v. Brian Koenan of the round. to llederman's face, causing a the fight. Nicholson landed a bout and secure the split In the final light of the 200(, 
While the intermission gave stoppage of the fight. After very solid hook about midway decision victory. Bengal Bouts, junior Tony llausfeld time to stop the the time out, Gough regained through the third round, and Cunningham was able to biiH~ding, he could do nothing the momentum, landed a then the fighters traded Cruiserwelght: Johnny overpower fellow junior Brian to stop the momentum. In the number of jabs and came punches until the bell. Griffin v. Patrick K. Ryan Koenan on his way to a TKO third round, Hausfeld came away with the unanimous In a disappointing turn of for the Super Heavyweight out swinging, knowing he had decision. 180: Dan "Poundtown" events, sophomore Patrick championship. to win the round in order to Ward v. Jeff Golen Ryan was unable to fight. lie In this Super Heavyweight win the championship. But 170: Brian "You Can't In the 180-pound champi­was not medically cleared to championship bout, both again, Schaefer rnrnainnd Handle the Truth" Nicholson onship bout, Dan Ward was compete, according to the f'ighters came out very wildly patient and picked his spots. v. Andrew Breslin unable to capitalize on his fight announcer. Griffin was and seemingly out of control. 
Neither boxer dominated In one of the more exciting height advantage while Jeff deelared the winner in a Almost immediately, the third round, but Schaefer fights of the championship Golen used his quickness to walkover. Cunningham was able to back was able to connnct on just round, Brian "You Can't capture the championship in Ko1man into the corner and enough of his punches to Handle the Truth" Nicholson a split decision. Heavyweight: landed a number of shots to secure the victory. won a surprising split deci­Fighting conservatively in Nathan Schroeder v. the head. It was the f'irst of a 
sion over senior captain the first round, neither boxer John "You can't beat around number of combos to the 
165: Charlie Gough v. Andrew Breslin. Nicholson took control of the fight early, this" Bush head that Koenan would suf­Billy Hederman used his severe height advan­although In the Heavyweight bracket fer. 
Snnior Charlie Gough tage to win the bout. Ward, who won the 170 championship, John Bush In the second and final stopped the fight three times In the first round, Breslin pound division in last year's wanted to use his extremn round, Koenan came out with devastating blows to win used his quickness to get tournament, was able to land height advantage to keep swinging again, but it was a unanimous decision over underneath the much taller a few early punches. Schroeder from getting only Cunningham that seemed Billy IInderman in the 165-Nicholson. Breslin landed a Throughout the first round, underneath him. to be landing any punches. pound championship bout. few punches early in the Ward attempted to use his Unfortunately for Bush, sen­Similar to the first round, 
In the first round, Gough round, while Nicholson used height advantage to keep the ior co-president Schroeder Koenan was backed into the landed a number of punches his height to get in a few late smaller Golen at a distance. was the one who dictated the corner and suffered a numb1~r and cut IInderman's faee. In a shots right before the bell. Golen was able to get in action. Using surprising of shots to the head. The ref­sign of things to come, the Neither boxer did a whole lot close on a couple of occa-quickness and unmatched eree separated the two box­
aggression, Schroeder was ers, only for it to happen 
The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalisrn 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, or fellow students. 
For a nomination form, please visit our website at: 
http://osa.nd.edu 
Nlnninution.\' are due by Thursday, March 9, 2006. 
able to secure the Heavyweight championship in a unanimous decision. 
In the first round, Schroeder used his quickness to get underneath the taller Bush, and once he was under­neath, just kept punching. In what looked like wild, uncon­trolled punches, Schroeder connected on a number of swings, including a few to Bush's face. 
No matter how hard Bush tried, Schroeder seemed determined to take away his height advantage. 
In the seeond round, Bush landed a few early punches on Schroeder, successfully 
again. 
Almost immediately aftnr they were separated, Cunningham again forced Koenan into the corner and landed a number of strong punches to the head. 
One minute and one second 
into the seeond round, the 
referee stopped the fight to 
administer a standing eight­
count. Seeing that Koenan was in no shape to eontinun, the referee ealled the fight in favor of the Mishawaka native, Cunningham. 
Contact Joe Quinn at jquinn6@nd.edu 

Meet and break bread with a community of recent college grads who are currently serving the South Bend community in their post graduate volunteer year with Holy Cross Associates 

n: Wednesday, March 8th 
at 7:00pm 
HCA House (713 '% W. LaSalle Ave.) 
ease RSVP by March 7th 
•c•An,,..a,r-,.. Mark at 631-5521 or e-mail lh~r::a<Wr1a.e,Eiu for directions 

,------~-­
-

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, March 6, 2006 
Big East 
continued from page 24 
No. 10-seed Notre Dame avenged a 68-64 Jan. 28 over­time loss Saturday, topping the No. 7-seed Bulls in a game that McGraw feels should cement Notre Dame's position in the NCAA tournament. 
"I think this [win] is enough," McGraw said. "We're playing well right now. We've got four [wins] in a row." 
Despite Duffy's early strug­gles, the Irish offense did not share in her troubles as it had for much of the season, scoring 31 points and shooting 41.4% from the field in the first half. In the final 4 7 seconds of the half, Notre Dame erased a seven-point deficit, and junior Crystal Erwin's lay up as time expired -set up by a long pass from senior Courtney LaVere -tied the contest heading into the break, 31-31. 
"I think that we've perfected the play very well," LaVere said. "They just brought two players to me and I saw Crystal [Erwin] open and it was just a replay of Cincinnati [when we won at the buzzer on a similar 
Courtney LaVere loves play­can play as hard as I can, we'll ing at Connecticut and elevates have a good chance." her game whenever she plays in But for as well as LaVere front of the Husky crowd, one of played, the Irish never had a the most hostile in college bas­chance down the stretch, unable ketball. to significantly slice into the dou­
The rest of her team, however, ble-digit Husky advantage. did not share her enthusiasm Trailing by 14 at the break, Sunday, as the No. 2-seed Notre Dame waited until the Huskies eliminated Notre Dame game's fmal minutes to make the 
71-60 in the quar­ score respectable.  
terfmals of the Big  Early  in  the  
East Tournament  "Connecticut's  game, LaVere gave  
in fran t of the largest crowd of the tournament's  a great team. They were just on."  the Irish a chance. The team jumped out to an early 8-5  
first  two  days.  lead as the senior  
Given the location, the game amount­ed to a  Muffet McGraw Irish coach  forward scored six of Notre Dame's first eight points.  
Connecticut home  Once LaVere sat  

game at the Hartford Civic down after getting her second Center. foul just 9:07 into the game, the LaVere scored 15 points on Huskies started to dominate the Sunday, well over her average of game. Behind strong perform­
8.8 points per game this season. ances from their three seniors, Last season, in Notre Dame's 65-Ann Strother, Barbara Turner 59 upset at Connecticut on Jan. and Willnett Crockett -who 30, 2005, LaVere scored 14 in combined for 26 first-half points just 23 minutes off the bench. off 11-of-13 shooting -the 
"I really just enjoy playing Huskies took a commanding 36­UConn. We have a great rivalry," 18 lead with 2:19 to play in the LaVere said. "When I come half before the Irish eventually when we've played them, I try to fought back to make it a 38-24 bring my best game, because I margin. In large part because of know it's going to be a fight the its seniors, Connecticut shot 62 whole time. I feel as long as I percent from the floor in the first half. 
"Connecticut's a great team," McGraw said afterwards. "They were just on." 
Despite already having two fouls, LaVere reentered the game with 3:59 to play and picked up her third foul 1:40 later before she could take a shot. 
"We weren't getting enough offense [out of our other play­ers]," McGraw said, explaining the LaVere's first half re-entry. "We felt like she was scoring, we weren't getting any production out of the other posts, so we needed to come back with her. She's smart enough to play with two fouls." 
Duffy was held to just three points in the first half-her sec­ond consecutive sub-par first half of the tournament. But much like she did during Notre Dame's 73-66 win over South Florida, she exploded in the sec­ond half, shooting 5-of7 from the floor and scoring a game-high 20 points. Duffy, a 5-foot-7 guard, also pulled down a team­high six rebounds. 
"I tried to be a little more aggressive in the second half, but really, I've got to learn to put two halves together," DuiTy said. "Especially at this point in the season, I've got to be able to carry a load offensively in the first half as well as the second half." 
Although it trailed by as many as 21 points in the second half, Notre Dame continued to play hard until the fmal buzzer. 
"We fought hard. I don't think we ever put our heads down and quit," McGraw said. "[We] brought it back to 11, and really, it should have been a little closer if we had just gotten a couple of little things, so, I was really proud of their efTort." 
McGraw was especially pleased with her team's per­formance given the setting, which, though officially a neutral site, was a de-facto home game for Connecticut. 
"I was really proud of the sen­iors, I thought they really fought hard," she said. "I think it's a tough environment for our play­ers to come in here and experi­ence that kind of crowd, and then play well." 
The Irish, who anticipate an NCAA tournament bid, will now wait until Selection Monday on March 13 to see who and where they will next play. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

play[," Lavere said. 
McGraw was pleased after the game with the way her team played during Duffy's funk. 
"I thought to go in [to half­time] with a tie without Megan IDuffy] scoreless was really a great job by the rest of the team," she said. "I think in the last 4:18 we scored a lot of points, more than we normally do, just by attacking the bas­ket, so I think the rest of the team is starting to kind of rise to the occasion." 
For the second time this sea­son, the Irish had five players in double figures, as Duffy, LaVere, junior Tulyah Gaines, sophomore Charel Allen and freshman Lindsay Schrader all scored at least ten points. 
Schrader, who has shot just 50 percent from the free throw line this season, added two crucial foul shouts with 5:13 to play that cut the USF lead to 62-59 and helped add to her total of 14. 
"I just didn't think about, I just shot it," Schrader said. ''I've been thinking about [my free throws] too much so I just shot." 
The Irish did an excellent job containing South Florida for­ward Jessica Dickson, the nation's leading scorer. While Dickson managed to score 16 points, the Notre Dame defense held her to just 6-of-21 shoot­ing. 
"Dickson's one of the best players in the nation," McGraw said. "She didn't shoot the ball particularly well, but she still had a great game with a dou­ble-double." 
While the Irish focused their primary efforts on shutting down forward Jessica Dickson, freshman guard Shanita Grace stepped up in a big way for the Bulls, scoring a game-high 24 points and shooting 4-of-5 from beyond the arc. 
"I thought she just played a great game," McGraw said. "I think maybe [she was] trying to prove that she belonged on the all-rookie team." 
Notes: 
+The last time Notre Dame had five players in double fig­ures was on Dec. 18 against Utah in the Dual in the Desert. The Irish won that game 68­55. 
Connecticut 71 Notre Dame 60 
2006-2007 Center for Applied Mathematics Graduate Fellowship Poster Session 

Wednesday, March 8, 2006 IO:OOAM -12:00PM Hurley Building Foyer (with the globe) 
Presenters: Ashraf AI-Khateeb Andrea Asztalos Mei Chen Trevor Cickovski Baoyang Deng Duminda Dewasurendra Radha Krishna Ganti RaviKiran Gopalan Tanya Kazakova Shivaprasad Kotagiro Yupeng Liang Siddharth Maheshwari Jason Nightingale Krishnan Padmanabhan Neal Patel Charles Penninger Srinath Sundaravaradhan Ali Pusane Shyam Ranganathan Matthew Rissler Jagadish Venkataraman Wenlong Zhang RonghuiZhou Zachary Zikoski 
For further information, please contact Andrew Sommese, Director of the Center for Applied Mathematics. 
Monday, March 6, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
HOCKEY 
Despite the loss, Irish tea111 still on the rise 
Hight now. it hurts. 
Hight now, aftPr sud1 high hope-s !wading into tlw CCI lA playolls, it hurL<; to SPI' tlw Irish handnd two straight dPii•aL<; by 
Alaska­
htirhanks and snc-thPir soa­son e-nd so abruptly. 
It roally hurL'> that Notrn llanw will hP sitt.ing out. t.lw rest of 


ttu~ playolls Chris Khorey aftPr rontrol­ling play ,','ports Writer 
Saturday 
night and pPp­
pPring Nanook goalio WyliE~ 
Hogors with :l<J shoL'>. 
.Junior goalin llavo Brown's lng litPrally hurL'>, aftor a hit Saturday night put him on rrutdws and sidnlinPd him fiw most of tlw mn­
h~st. 
But in a fi~w days. aftnr thn Irish look bark at tlwir smL<;on and at tlw vast improvnnwnlo.; ovPr last yPar, it. won't hurt IL'i much. BncausP road1 Jnll' Jackson IHL'i this program lwadnd in the right dirndion. 
Jackson canw to Notrn Damn with an impn~ssivn rnsunw, induding two national r.hampi­onships as I wad mach of Lakn Supe-rior Stato. lin inlwritnd a program that WIL'i 5-27-6 last ynar, was riding a 19-gamn win­loss strPak and whosn h~ading rnturning s1:oror, ddimsnrnan Wns O'Nnill. had acrumulatml just 20 poinLo.;. 
Tlw nnw mach irnnwdiatoly took stops to rnshap1• tho pro­grams imago, first. oullitting his squad with nnw goldnn lwlmnlo.; and t.lum ovnrhauling thnir atti­tud!~ from scratch. 
Notrn Damn finislwd this sn<Lo.;on I:~-1 1J-4 and night.h in tho CCI lA, not a gn~at rnmrd by any nwans, hut much bnttt~r than hLo.;t year. Tlw two playoll' games against Fairbanks notwithstanding, thn Irish finishPd their snao.;on on a strong notn, Pnding thP n~gular snason with wins in four of thnir hL'>t six gamns. 
Jackson instilled a new confi­dnncn in his tnarn, which hncamo morn and morn evident as the 

sna'>on moved along. From fresh­
man Erik Condra seoring with 
ninn sneonds loll against 
Minnnsota Stato Dec. 6 to the 
loam erasing a 4-1 defidt to bnat 
Northorn Michigan Jan. 21 to 
O'Neill and senior Tim Wallaco 
struggling fill' ono last shot as 
limn expired against Fairbanks 
Saturday. tlw Irish shownd a fight 
that had beon missing fi>r too 
long. 

Seoring was way up, too, as the Irish had fivn playors-junior .Josh Sdba, sophomoro Mark Van Cuildnr, Condra, Wallaet\ and O'Nnill-produced ovnr 20 poinlo.;. Condra put up 34 poinlo.;, includ­ing 2H assislo.;. A'i a toam, thH Irish scorod filllr or morn goals eight times, including a nine-goal out­burst against. Bowling Groon Nov. 
II. 

Jac:kson's coaehing also made an immndiatn impact on special tnams. Tlw Irish power play ranknd at thn top of the CCI lA fi>r most of the snason. Notm Dame seon~d on 1(>.6 percent. of iLo.; pownr plays, up from only 9.H pnrennt a year ago. The penalty kill also improved, bringing opposing power play scoring down from 20.7 pemmt to 18.9 porcent. 
Thn Irish also improved thoir consistency. (lone were tho 10-1 dnfimts to Mi1:higan and the semn­ingly nndlnss losing stmaks. lnstPad, Notrn Damn was in evnry game it playod. Their biggnst margin of' ddi1at was just thren goals. Their longnst winless stmak was only five games, and that camn very oarly in the sPason. 
Brown was solid all season, !,riV­ing up just 2.47 goals pnr game af'tor stepping in for !,'l'aduating startnr Morgan Cey. Freshman .Jordan Pearce provt~d a capabln backup. appnaring in nine games and earning his first career shutout against Princeton Oct. 2H. 
Do tho Irish have a long way to go'? Of coursn. This is still a sub­.500 tnam that finished in the bot­tom half of the CCI lA and bowed out in the first round of the play­ol1k But it is an improving team, and with young talent like Condra and Pearcn coming through tho pipeline and veterans like Brown, Sdba, and O'Neillretuming for another year. 
Even further into the future, Jackson is recruiting well and rumors of mnovations to the Joyce Center may finally become concrete plans. 
So, while tho losses to Fairbanks hurt now, they will soon be a distant memory as Jackson leads Notre Dame hockey to national prominence. It may not happen next year or the year alter, but the Irish program, whieh was in total disarray just a year ago, is in good hands. 
The views expressed in thL<> col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact ChrL<> Khorey at ckhorey@nd. edu. 

Nanooks 
continued from page 24 
Saturday night's shutout. 
Notre Dame continued to 
struggle with the power-play 
after going 0-f'or-16 in man 
advantage situations. The Irish 
have failed to eonvnrt on their 
last 30 chances, a streak dating 
baek live games to a series with 
Bowling Green. 
Both teams combined for 72 
minutes in the penalty box, cre­
ating nunwrous man advantage 
and four-on-li>ur situations. 
"The power play is the com­bination of players, and if those players all go into a slump at the same time, then you're going to have probloms," Irish head eoach Jef'f' Jaekson said. "It's not the time of' the year to make adjustments and ehange personnel. It's boon a staple of ours all year long, and I don't think people recognized how important it was to our team until those last fhur games." 
The Irish penalty kill negated 11 out of 12 Nanook chances in the two games (a 91.6-pereent success rate) -the lone power-play goal proving to be the decisive one in the 1-0 shutout. 
Alaska-Fairbanks 3 
Notre Dame 1 
The Nanooks secured the game-winning goal Friday night midway through the third period in a game characterized by physical play and dump­and-ehasn battles for puck pos­session. 
Fairbanks' Kelly Czuy scored a garb<tge goal to give the Nanooks the 2-1 lead at 11 :55 of' the third period. Defense man T.J. Campbell released a slap shot from the high left slot on Irish goalii1 Dave Brown that rebounded oil' Brown's lnft pad to just above the ereaso. 
Czuy roofed the puek over a scrambling Brown for the game-winner. 
"In the third, it boils down to the discipline of our hockey team," Jackson said. "We had a long shift and ended up with thn winning goal in our net." 
Notre Dame got on the board first with VeNard's goal at 
13:31 in the first frame. Christian Hanson won the f'aee­off in the Nanooks' zone and drew the puck back to Tim Wallace on top of the left circle. Wallace quickly redirected the puck to VeNard along the left boards, who stepped in low and dodged a Nanook defender below the circle. 
VeNard let go a wrist shot that denPcted off a Fairbanks' player and Hogers left leg pad into the far side of the net. 
"You take them any way you can get them," VeNard said. "It was nice. I would have liked it to been a little bit prettier, but anything to get the team on the board and get us going." 
The goal would prove to be the only one that Hogers allowed to pass the goal line in the two games. He made 22 saves in the opening game. 
"Obviously we have a hot goaltender on our hands," VeNard said after Friday's game. "There's evidence to my goal that we have to keep try­ing to throw stuff towards the net." 
Fairbanks tied the game at 1­1 at 5:51 into the second stanza on a Curtis Fraser one-timer. 
A turnover in the corner of Notre Dame's zone allowed Kyle Jones to feed the puek to Fraser on the right point. Fraser one-timed the puck at Brown, who attempted to fight through a screen to make the savn. Nathan Fornataro rndi­rected the puek on its way to the net to noteh the goal. 
The Nanooks sealc~d the game at 19:23 of tho third to make it :{-1 when Lueas Burnntt seornd an empty netter. 
Notre Damn came out firing through the first pnriod and prevented the Nanooks from enforcing their physical, def'on­sive style. llowevor tho second period found the Irish dead­locked yet again in smash mouth battles along the boards. 
"That's their game," .Jaekson said. "Their averago age is about 23, ours is probably about 19. It's men against boys in some situations." 
Thn Nanooks stmggled to set up in the Irish zone and rolied on a dump-and-ehase strategy to work tho puek past the Notre Dame defense stacked four­wide in the neutral zone. 
"You have to get the puek behind their team. I don't earn how you do it," Nanooks lwad eoaeh Tavis MaeMillan said. "You ean skate it, you ean pass it, you can ehip it. You can do anything want -throw it for all I earn. It's just got to gnt behind their def'ensemon." 
Tht~ Irish went 0-f'or-6 on the power play with four shots in those situations on Hogers for the game. 
Alaska-Fairbanks 1 Notre Dame 0 
Saturday night's game could simply be labeled the Wylie Hogers Show for the Fairbanks' goalie's 39 save performance. But that would be to ignore a gritty speeial teams battle ­whose lone goal eame off a fluke play -and a serious injury to goaltender Brown. 
Midway through the first period on a Notre Dame pownr play, Brown rushed out of his crease to just halfway between the blue line and the top of the left circle to clear the puck away from a guaranteed Fairbanks breakaway. 
Hight winger Braden Walls ­who had been charging for the puck -took Brown out at the knees and was whistled for a charging minor. Brown was unable to stand under his own power and was helped off the ice after several minutes. 
Freshman Jordan Pearce quickly warmed up and entered his first game since Feb. 17. lie had 15 saves on the night. It was the sixth career shutout for the sopho­more. 
"It's a eheap shot," Pearee said of the hit. ''I'm sure the guy wasn't intending to hurt him, but at the same time, when a goalie gnts hit it's nmlly an intentional thing." 
Jackson was angered by the referne's eall on the infraction, while MacMillan was confused at handing out. a charge eall to a playor sliding into a goalie out of tlw protnrtPd zorw, which 11nds at tho top of the drdns. 

"'1\vo-minute JWnalty for run­ning a goaltender," Jackson said of tho call. "lie deliberate­ly slid into him and took his lt~gs out from undnrnoath him. Two minutes for eliminating a goalie from a series." 
Fornataro broko his stick ­and the seorelnss doadloek ­with his powflr-play goal at 
19:04 of the socond period. Freshman defenseman Tyler Eekl'ord corralled tlw puck along the left sidn of tlw Irish zone and sent a eross ice pass to Fomataro just. lwlow tho eontor of the right cirde. 
Fornataro wound up and rnleased a slap shot. that. broke his stick blade upon contact with the in~. Tho black blade ­wrappnd in blaek friction tape -skidded along the iee to tlw right side of the net whiln tlw puek tricklnd through Poarct~'s five-holo. 
"I was aetually screened on the shot," Pnarce said. "Thn guy broke his stick, and all I could soe was tho blade nHning aeross. I thought that was the puck, so I followed the blado. When I saw that it wasn't really the puck it was already too late." 
The Irish eountornd in thn third with continuous prnssure in thn Nanook zorw, but Hognrs shut the door on any and all ehanees with 17 saves in tho last 20 minutes. The Irish had 
4:16 of man advantago play in the pnriod. 
Hogers allowed only thrno goals in I I poriods against the Irish sinen entering in rnlief of Chad .Johnson in a 4-1 loss on Feb. 24. 
"For the most part we were rotating wnll, reading what they were doing," MaeMillan said of the penalty kill. "Wh11n we did screw up, Wylie was there to bail us out. Yom bnst penalty killer is your goal­tender." 
Notre Dame cnmtod several mass scrambles in front of Hogers where, at some points, all 10 skaters became bundwd up in front of the net. In a scramble at the 10:00 mark, several Irish players raised their hands in celPbration of a goal, only to be waved off by the referens. /\11 the scoring ehanees provod futile and a last diteh efl'ort with J>narce pulled from the net was unsuccessful. 
"I think they thought one of them was in," Hogers said. "It was dearly not, but that's just the emotion of thn game and that's part of hoekey and that's why it's thn greatnst game." 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, March 6, 2006 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 


Irish improve to 4-0 on year 
Byers and Alicia Billings -all Another reason for theBy CHRIS WILLIAMS 
beat Cornell goalie Maggie Irish's early success could be 
Sporrs Wrirer 
Fava. the immediate impact of the Trailing 4-1, Cornell's talented freshman class. 
The No. 17 Notre Dame Courtney Farrell knotted the Notre Dame's freshmen, most women knocked off No. 18 score at 4-4 with three goals notably Jillian Byers, have Cornell, 17-15, Sunday after­in a 1:03 minute span. Having continued to perform. noon at Loftus Sports Center, lost their three-goal cushion, Dubbed "mouth" by her winning another the Irish went teammates, Byers has quickly close match-up right back to adapted to the college game against a top­"Coming offsuch a work, scoring and will give the Irish offen­ranked team. five of the sive dominance for years to
bad season last
As the season game's next six come. continues to year, we all goals to build a "Well, [the transition to col­unfold, the 4-0 re-committed our­9-5 advantage. lege lacrosse is] tough," Byers Irish have con­Leading 11-8 said. "It is a totally different
selves to working
tinued to live up at the break, game. It is much quicker and to their hype. hard.'' Notre Dame more physical. It is not like Attack Crysti would build a there are just a few good girls Foote once again 17-11 lead playing on each team," Byers
Crysti Foote 
led Notre Dame's before allowing said.
Irish attack
offensive the Big Red to In their second game this onslaught, with score the last week, the Irish will face five goals and three assists. four tallies of the game. Lehigh University at home on 
Sophomores Caitlin Foote said perhaps the Wednesday. McKinney and Mary secret to the team's vigor is "We have a hard week com­Carpenter also had outstand­its intense, new team work­ing up," Foote said. "We are ing games with five and three out, an exercise for both the definitely excited to see how goals, respectively. It was body and spirit. we do. I know if we continue Carpenter's first hat trick. "Coming off such a bad sea­to play we've been playing, 
The Irish exploded out of son last year, we all re-com­that we'll come away with a the gates, netting four goals mitted ourselves to working win." in the contest's first nine min­hard," she said. "We have 6 utes as Foote, McKinney and a.m. runs and lifts and contin­Contact Chris Williams at a pair of freshmen -Jill ue to work hard everyday." cwillill@nd.edu 

DePaul 
continued from page 24 
St. John's Sunday afternoon, the Irish became the No. 12-seed in the upcoming confenmce tourna­ment held in New York City. Notre Dame now is scheduled for a first­round match up with No. 5-sfled Georgetown at 2 p.m. Wndnesday at Madison Square Garden. 
"It's been an up-and-down sea­son, not exactly the way we want­ed it to go," Irish forward Tarin Francis said after the game, his limtl at home in a Notre Dame uniform. "But early on in the sea­son, we talked about [how] our main goal was to go to the Big East tournament. And even though we had to fight down to our last game to get in, we're still in it." 
Francis (1 0 points, eight rebounds) nearly cost Notre Dame a late-game lead with 40.4 sec­onds remaining and the Irish up a possession, 62-59. The senior for­ward missed the front end of a one-and-one after Notre Dame coach Mike Brey elected to inbound to Francis (62.3 percent foul shooting) and leave Kyle McAlarney (90.9 percent) on the bench in a foul situation. 
Blue Demons center Marlon Brumfield made a put back of a Sammy Mejia miss on the ensuing possession to cut the Notre Dame lead to 62-61. But Falls then sank two free throws, and Carter hit two more after a DePaul miss to seal the victory. 

Carter scored eight straight points during a stretch in the mid­dle of the second half. The run began with two free throws at the 
16:34 mark and ended on a 3­pointer at 13:19, which gave Notre Dame a 47-39lead. 
The junior, who has been refer­enced several times as a possible ~andidate for Most Improved Player in the Big East this season, also locked down Mejia (23 points, 3-of-5 3-pointers) when he guard­ed him for the game's fmal 20-to­25 minutes, holding DePaul's main scoring threat to seven second half points. 
"Rus waited to sign late his sen­ior year ... because he thought he was better than who was recruit­ing him at the time," Brey said afterwards. "He was very right ... And we're fortunate enough to have him." 
Carter's second half output maintained a lead the Irish grabbed and never relinquished following Francis' basket with just over five minutes remaining in the first half (23-21). 
DePaul threatened in the second half, forcing Quinn and Falls out of their individual offensive rhythms. 
The Blue Demons dosed the gap to two on a Wilson Chandler jumper to make the score 59-57 with 2:09 to go. But after an Irish miss, Quinn took a charge on Mejia, and then Falls hit the shot of the game -a deep 3-pointer to extfmd the lead to 62-57. 
"lie's been hitting big shots for us his whole career," Cornett said, "so it wasn't a shock to me." 
The Blue Demons scored again before Brumfield's put back but could not prevent Falls and Carter from sinking foul shots to hang on. 
"If you would have told me [after losing 89-86 to Louisville Feb. 4 and falling to 1-8 in the Big Eastl that we'd put ourselves in a position to play on senior day to get to New York, I would have thrown a parade," Brey said. "Are you kidding me?" 
Brey said he thought Quinn did a masterful job Wednesday of being patient and controlling the game's tempo, assisting on three straight possessions at one point and having the poise to defer to his teammates. Quinn was guard­ed the entire game by the 6-foot-6 Mejia. 
Notre Dame started out hot, making 7 -of-8 field goals to open the game and led 17-12 with 
11 :53 remaining in the first half. 
Irish guard Russell Carter looks to pass Saturday afternoon at the Joyce Center. 
Mejia scored DePaul's first seven Kurz all scored to give Notre points and 11 of its first 14 as the Dame a five-point lead, 28-23, at teams exchanged early leads. The the 3:23 mark. Blue Demons used Mejia's fifth And each team traded scores, basket to spark a 9-2 run. with the Irish getting a backdoor Chandler then scored two baskets Quinn lay up and a last-second and Mejia followed with a 3-point­Carter follow-up tip-in at the er to send the Irish into a televi­buzzer to send Notre Dame into sion timeout at 7:03 down 21-19. halftime with a 35-27lead. 
But the Irish went on a 9-2 run of their own out of the timeout. Contact Pat Leonard at 
Quinn, Francis and forward Rob pleonard@nd.edu 

Drea01 
continued from page 24 
indulge their imaginations­and that means looking beyond Georgetown. If Notre Dame can somehow win four consecutive games, a feat the team has not accomplished all season in league play, the Irish will receive an automatic NCAA Tournament berth. 
And there is a chance Notre Dame can get a spot even if it doesn't win out. If the Irish win three games, they have nine conference victories. That should be enough to give them some deserved consideration. 
In order to get those three wins, Notre Dame will have to beat Georgetown and Marquette. And if it does advance, Connecticut will likely be waiting (the No. 1-seed Huskies play the winner of No. 8 seed Cincinnati and No. 9-seed Syracuse). 

That would give Notre Dame three wins against teams that rank No. 3 (Connecticut), No. 18 (Marquette) and No. 22 (Georgetown) according to the NCAA men's basketball RPI (Ratings Percentage Index). 
It's a daunting challenge for Notre Dame. The Irish have struggled getting wins all season against the top teams in the league. Brey must know how difficult it will be to get to the NCAA Tournament. But that doesn't mean his team can't 
dream. 
Plus, Notre Dame has dealt 
with worse. The Irish have had 
their backs against the wall all 
season, especially in the last 
week. But they emerged from it 
as one of the biggest success sto­
ries in the Big East (Notre Dame 
was 1-8 following a loss at 
Louisville and won five of its last 
seven to end the season). 
And they know anything that 
happens in New York is icing on 
the cake. Notre Dame wasn't 
expecting to get here, evident by Mike Brey's post game interview Saturday when he said he would ·have been surprised to be in this 
position following the loss at 
Louisville. 
Of course the coach had confi­
dence in his team, but numbers are numbers. Eight losses in nine games to start the league schedule aren't conducive to playing in a tournament where the bottom four teams do not qualify. 
But Notre Dame bounced back. And because of that, the team has certain intangibles in its favor. 
The Irish are more relaxed knowing that they are not cur­rently on the bubble. The pres­sure will be on the shoulders of the higher seeds fighting for Tournament position. 
And after Saturday's win, the locker room attitudes reflected that laid back attitude. Irish guard Russell Carter said Colin Falls' 3-pointer to give Notre Dame a five-point lead reminded him of Mario Elie (retired NBA guard who played with the Houston Rockets in the 1990s). 
Notre Dame guard Chris Quinn was relieved, just happy to end his career at home with a win and be playing in New York. 
This team has been through a lot this season. Nothing fazes the Irish anymore, which could be the team's asset. And with an attitude where Notre Dame will hope for the best and dn~am of bigger things, the Irish could be in a very good position to turn some heads later this week. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Bobby Griffin 


Monday, March 6, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
JOCKULAR 
ERIK POWERS & ALEC WHITE 


CROISSANTWORLD 
HE.'f, 1-W.'j. 1--\E'j. 
I'M NOT PA'JI N(.r 
~OU TO QUE~:iiiON II-\ E. M u RA \... .'' 'T\-1 E GLoR.~ OF MONI< MALt.."'j" MUSI BE: \3,UILT. 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
A9-.'E.. Ii-I 0 s,E. "I'l-lE.. MuPPE:TS 
A~OUNb 
'fOU'? 
HENRI ARNOLD 


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARC IRION 

JJWF~ID1JR 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
BOINS 

I I I ( J 
C2005 Tnbune Media Services, Inc. 
r;'i~fl 
TANNIE 
'lv'I-EN THE: KITc..HEN
I I I 
HE:L.P FE:L.L. BE:HIND,
www.Jumble.com 
THE: c.HE:F WA?--­

GLUBIN j 


Now arrange the circled letters to 
Saturday's I Jumbles: Answer: form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

JULEP PATIO BUSHEL TOUCHY How she felt when her cobbler recipe won the blue ribbon -JUST "PEACHY" 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  34 Evian, par  60 Commedia  
1 Martini garnish  example  dell'  
6 Mrs. Dithers in  35 Pizazz  61 Fit for a king  
"Biondie"  36 Jazz instruments  62 Gripe  
10 Colonel or  38  Strauss  63 Many a  
captain  jeans  teenager's room  
14 1976 Olympic gymnastics gold medalist Comaneci  39 Be sick 40 Elisabeth of "Leaving Las  64 Alibi DOWN  
15 Assert  Vegas"  1 Aware of  
16 Away from the wind  41 Add a lane to, perhaps  2 Croquet area 3 Conception  
17 OVALS  42 STORY  4 Beaujolais, e.g.  
20 Words before  46 "Lovely" Beatles  5 Grovel  
roll or whim  girl  6 Checking out,  
21 Murder  47 Bad news for a  as a joint  
22 "You're  dieter  7 Kitchen hot spot  
talk!"  48 Assassinated  8 Gun, as an  
23 Affix one's John  51 Atlantic Coast  engine  
Hancock  area, with "the"  9"_you  
24 On one's  52 Thrilla in Manila  kidding?"  
rocker?  victor  10 Gilda of the  
26 K  55 X  early "S.N.L."  
32 Ship's crane 33 Needle parts  59 Reverse, as an action  11 Soothing agent 12 Brilliantly colored salamander  31 Destroy 32 It may be new, raw or big  43 Son of Poseidon 44 Playing marbles  51 Young 12-Downs 52 Jason's ship  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
13 Gambling game 36 Gun blast 45 Alternative to 53 Fibber check or charge
with numbers 37 Mystique 54 Without doing 18 Indian mystic 38 Circus animal 48 Pond gunk anything 
19 They're taboo with a tamer 56 Ewe's mate
49 Jay of late-night 23 "Wheel of 40 Hogs 57 Mine find
SOWing_
Fortune" turn 
41 Novelists prayer 58"_ lost!" 24 Eye sore 
25 11 's in blackjack 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 26 Actress Shire credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 27 Picture frames Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday lacking corners 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
-:+-:+:~+:::-! 28 Under a spell 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).29 Must-haves 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young -._._...__........._. 30 Icicle holders solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords.
--::-+-.,;:+:+=-! 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST


HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS BAY: Jake Lloyll. 17; Kevin Connolly, 32; 
Michael Warren, 60; Samantha Eggar, 67 
Happy Birthday: Travel, learning anll expanlling your frienllships. knowlellgc anll spiritualllirection shoulll he on your to-llo list. Don't miss out on the chance to llo something that coulllleall to a hrightcr future. Rid yourself of the people and things that are standing in your way--it's time to put yourself first. Your numhers arc 7, 14,2K,33,37.40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will have added discipline that will allow you to follow through with your self-improvement plans. Your llellication to lining something wholeheartedly will impress the people you meet along the way. A trip should he consillcrell. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Charm and lliplomacy will help you gel what you want. You can make a trcmenllous difference to the people around you hy heing open ahout the way you sec things unfolding. Personal changes should he considered. An older relative may worry ahout your plans. ** GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): You'll he feeling restless and in need of change. Don't consider trying to get away with something today. You will he caught in your own trap if you do. A chance to do something creative will help to calm your nerves.*** CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): Mix husincss with pleasure if at all possihle. Romance is in the stars hut avoid people who arc already involved with someone else. Travel arrangements will he disrupted or not go according to plan. *** LEO (July 23-Au~. 22): Going somewhere exotic shoulll he your plan today. You will feel greater commitment to the people you care about as well as to the enlleavon; you wish to pursue. Love should he a top priority. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Show your worth and stand up for your helicfs. You arc likely to face opposition hut, if you back down now, you will regret it in the future. It may be time to move on or take a llifferent approach. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your mind will he on distant lands or on doing something unusual, entertaining and playfuL You can make things happen if you share your ideas and coax others to help you wiU1 your plans. A romantic encounter is apparent. 
***** 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Keep your wits about you. Someone may have something interesting to say but it may not be as functional an illcu when put into play. Protect yourself anll your assets and focus on your own creative ideas. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 2I): Think about the future. You arc up for plenty of change and now is as good a time as aoy to start making plans. Arguments arc likely to develop if you discuss your intentions with loved ones. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): It may be the weekend but your minll will probably he fixated on ways to get ahead professionally. Step outside the normal and consider unusual options. You need a change that will shake your founllation and teach you something new. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Love interests will mount. Make plans to lin something with someone you really care about. You won't agree with someone in your family or someone you live with. Avoid confrontations by taking action, not with verbal abuse. ** PISCES (Feb. I9-March 20): Someone may try to derail your belief system. Don't get frazzled. You don't have to dcfenll what you stand for or push your belief:, on others. Be thankful you have such solid convictions. Take care of personal financial matters. **** 
Birthday Baby: You are intense in all that you do. You take a lliiTcrcnt approach and relish the fact you arc unique. You are clear about your likes anll dislikes and ahout what you want to do with your life. You arc passionate and very persuasive. 
Eul{enia's Web sites: ustroadvice.comfor jim, eul{enialast.comforctm}idt•ntial con.Hlltation.\· 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
----------------------. 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, March 6, 2006 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Shrugging off the Demons 
ND defeats DePaul, earns No. 12-seed in Big East Tournament 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
It might as well have been Junior Night. 
Notre Dame junior guards Russell Carter and Colin Falls made key baskets down the stretch on Senior Night -and combined to score their team's final 10 points -as the Irish downed DePaul 66-61 Saturday at the Joyce Center. 
The win clinched Notre Dame a Big East tournament berth. 
On a night when seniors Chris Quinn, Torin Francis and Rick Cornett remained quiet in the scoring column, Carter led the Irish with 22 points, including 15 in the second half, to earn a victo­ry he said his senior captains deserved. 
"We want to keep these seniors playing as long as possible," Carter said after the game. "If we could have them play until next year and give them another year of eligibility, [we] would do that." 
Quinn scored just 11 points, but 
< dished 10 assists to two turnovers, and the seniors went out with a win despite a grueling regular season. Following Rutgers' victory over 
see DEPAUL!page 22 


Irish free to dream of bigger, better things 
Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said it best in his press confer­ence Saturday after the Irish beat DePaul and grabbed the final spot in 
the Big East tournament. He wants his team to dream. 
How quick­ly things change. Notre Dame's focus all season has 

been making Bobby Griffin the Big East tournament. Associate It was the Sports Editor team's pre­rogative before the season start­ed, and it continued to be with every league game. But now that the Irish have accomplished the goal they set out for, things are different. Sure, No. 12-seed Notre Dame is concentrating on beating No. 5-seed Georgetown Wednesday. The Irish want to prove to any remaining doubters they belong in New York and are better than their 6-10 conference record. And the seniors don't want the season to end. But now that they have locked up a spot, the Irish are free to 
see DREAM/page 22 
HOCKEY 
Nanooks sweep the host Irish 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
The lack of power-play suc­cess in a series chock full of special teams action -and a red-hot Nanooks goaltender -sounded the death knell 
for  the  
Irish as the  See Also  
I c e r s dropped t w 0  "Despite the loss, Irish team  
straight  still on the rise"  
games in a b e s t -o f- page 21  
three, first- 

round CCHA playofl' series to Alaska-Fairbanks over the weekend. 
Alaska-Fairbanks (17 -14-5) swept the Irish out of the playoffs with 3-1 and 1-0 vic­tories and advanced to the second round to face Michigan State this Friday. Notre Dame (13-19-4) moved to 13-25 all-time in CCHA playoff games after the series. 
Dan VeNard notched the lone Irish goal in the series and Fairbanks goalie Wylie Hogers made 61 saves in the two games, including 39 in 
see NANOOKS/page 21 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
UConn knocks squad from Big East tourney 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
1-IAHTFOHD, CONN. Megan Duffy had one shot at halftime of Notre Dame's first round Big East Tournament game with South Florida Saturday, and she didn't score a point until almost nine minutes into the second half. 
But that didn't stop the sen­ior captain from taking con­trol of the game's latter stages and ending the game as the team's leading scorer. 
Duffy, whose three-pointer with 11:05 left in the game finally got her on the board, finished with 16 points, and her free throw shooting down the stretch (7 -of-7 overall) helped the Irish take a late lead and hold on for a 73-66 victory over the Bulls in the first round of the 2006 Big East Tournament. 
"At the end of the game is when she seems to just play her best," Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw said. "No matter how tired she is, no matter how many minutes she's played, no matter how many times she's been on the floor, you know that she's going to step up, get to the line, and make free throws ... I think she's a really smart player, and that's something that doesn't really show up on the stat sheet." 
see BIG EAST/page 20 
BENGAL BOUTS -FINALS 
Captain Schaefer prevails 
Cunningham, Golen, Gough, Nicholson also win their weight classes 
By JOE QUINN Sports Writer 
Senior captain Greg Schaefer used patience and precise punches to gain a split decision over sophomore Jeffery Hausfeld in the 160-See Also pound cham­
"McGill wins in

pionship. Schaefer sat 
nailbiter" 

back and 
page 12 

withstood Hausfeld's sometimes-wild punches, and when the opportunity present-
see BENGALS/page 19 

ND WOMENlS TENNIS
FENCING 
TRACK 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
BASEBAll

BENGAL BOUTS
en ..... 
The Irish qualified ten 
Seven Irish athletes 
Captain Andrew
Notre Dame 7 
Arizona 2 
Cornell 9

1-u 

z fencers for the NCAA 
and the men's 4x400­
McGill edged Tommy
Illinois 0 
Notre Dame 6 
Notre Dame 0 

Championships at the 
meter relay team quali-
Forr in the 145-pound
5 

Midwest Regionals 
fied for the NCAA meet 
weight class final
The Irish remained 
Senior Pat Walsh's 
Pitcher Jeff Manship's 

at the Alex Wilson
= Saturday. 

Sunday at the Joyce
undefeated at 11-0 with 
10 strikeouts were wast-

two goals weren't
c:c 

Invite Saturday at 
Center. 
ed as the Wildcats shut

a sweep of the Illini 
enough as the Irish fell
=: Loftus Sports Center. 
Sunday. 
to the Big Red Saturday. 
out the Irish. 
page 16

en page 19 
page 18 

page 17
page 19 
page 17 

... 






