
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 131 MONDAY, MAY 1. 2006 
Mendoza ranked third nationally 
BusinessWeek names ND's College among top U.S. programs 
By KATIE PERRY Assistant News Editor 
If recent assessments by industry analysts are any indi­cation, the stock for Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business is on the rise. 
In BusinessWeek's latest edi­tion -which will hit news­stands May 8-magazine edi­tors ranked the University's program third in its first-ever national list of undergraduate business schools. The rank­ings were released April 27. 
"Students praise the school's focus on ethics and say the career services office does a great job of preparing stu­dents for business," said the magazine's Web site, BusinessWeek online. 
"At No. 3 Notre Dame, rigor­ous classes requiring team­work skills and an intimate knowledge of economics, cal­culus and corporate strategy earned the school a high grade for teaching quality," the article said. "The curricu­lum works ethics into most classes, requires that half of all coursework be in non-busi­ness subjects and emphasizes group projects." 
In an Friday News and Information article, Dean Carolyn Woo of the College of Business said the ranking was "an achievement for the entire Notre Dame community." 
"It is good to be recognized as a Catholic university with a 
see MENDOZA/page 4 

Thousands of dining hall items stolen yearly 
2,000 brown bowls, 900 dessert plates, 2,000 dinner plates, 3,500 cups, 12,000 spoons, 8,000 forks and 7,000 knives. 
While these losses are cer­tainly substantial, they do not come as a shock to many students. 
"It's not surprising that so much is stolen," sophomore Pat Tennant said. "It's tempting to take silverware or bowls, and there's not much there to stop people." 
The replacement cost for the items stolen this year totals approximately $25,000, Prentkowski said. 
see THEFT/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Student robbed on Ivy Road 
Unidentified, armed suspect stole wallet 
Observer Staff Repon 
A Notre Dame student walking to campus from a local apartment complex was allegedly robbed at gunpoint on Ivy Road between Vaness Street and Courtney Lane Friday, according to an e­mail sent by Notre Dame Security/Police to the student body Saturday. 
At about 10:30 p.m. Friday, the student -who police did not identify -was walking toward campus when the suspect, armed with a short­barreled rifle, "approached him from behind and ordered the student to turn around." 
The suspect demanded the student turn over his wallet, and the student complied. 
"The suspect fled on foot to a dark colored SUV that was occupied by at least one per­son and waiting nearby, and then drove south on Ivy Road and Edison Road," the e-mail read. 
The student was uninjured, police said. 
As of Saturday morning, police were still searching for the suspect, described as male, about 5'11," with a skinny build. He was a wear­ing a dark hooded sweat­shirt. 
Associate Director of NDSP Phil Johnson was not avail­able for comment Sunday. 

Kernan ends first tern1 
as University professor 
By JOE PIARULLI News Writer 
He's simply not your average Joe. 
Joe Kernan has been gover­nor of Indiana, mayor of South Bend, a decorated Vietnam War veteran and now a proven pro­fessor at his alma mater. 
Kernan, a 1964 Notre Dame graduate, recently completed his first year as a professor with a one-credit course entitled "The Executive Branch and Public Policy," which he plans to teach again next spring. 
The class, composed of 20 political science majors, cov­ered major issues such as edu­cation, healthcare, budgeting, campaigns and campaign finance, as well as current issues like the Indiana toll road and the leasing of U.S. ports. 
John Roos, acting chair for the political science depart­ment, said having a professor with a background other than academia brings something spe­cial to the University. 
"The students seem to be enthusiastic, so we think it's working out great," Roos said. "Bringing the ... concrete, real world experiences has just been a real addition." 
Kernan said he looks forward to teaching the class again and feels as though he has already improved as a professor. 
"I had a great group of stu­dents and I hope I taught them a little something," he said. 
see KERNAN /page6 


Habitat founder addresses crowd 
Rain moves Shack City talk indoors 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Editor 
Though Saturday night's rain couldn't sway South Quad's Shack City dwellers from their purpose, it did drive them inside for an hour to hear the founder of Habitat for Humanity International, Millard Fuller, speak. 
Pangborn's chapel was full of interested listeners, the walls and stairs lined with those the seats couldn't accommodate. The group welcomed Fuller with long and resounding applause. 
With his Southern accent and humor, Fuller opened the 
see FULLER/page 6 


Habitat for Humanity founder Millard Fuller speaks to a crowd in Pangborn Hall's chapel Saturday as part of Shack City. 

Replacement costs estimated at $25,000 
By MOLLY LAMPING 
News Writer 
Whether due to acciden­tally walking out of the din­ing hall with a cup of ice cream and a spoon or "bor­rowing" a tray to go sled­ding in the winter, more than 38,000 items were stolen from North and South Dining Halls this year, Director of Notre Dame Food Services Dave Prentkowski said. 
That's 3,500 blue bowls, 
Monday, May I, 2006 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

It takes two 
l>uoL'i, doublns and duos: No mattor how you say it. sonw of thn host things in liti~ mnw in pairs. 
Sonw undert.akinJ.,rs arn just too irnrnnnsc~ li1r orw pnrson to handlP on 
thnirown­
thus is thP situa­
tion within Tlw 
(lbsnrvnr's 
News dopart­
mnnt on Sunday 
nighL'i liw tlw 
past two ynars. 
Each 
Sunday­
altPr making 
tlw mini-trnk 
from Saint 
Marv's-wo 
WOltld attend 
tlw nnws menting, nnjoy a tasty chicken 
sandwich in South Dining Hall and bngin 
tlw snmningly nPvoronding task ofediting 
storins and 1:mating the paper's layout. 
Sadly. with Nkolp's impnnding gradua­
tion. last night markod thn cmd ol' tlw 
Kelly-and-Nimle-Sunday-night ora ol' ere­
ativnly thmnnd AP pages, Ken l>olllwad­
shoL'i, "Brighter Than Sunshine" and 
supc>r-snUldalous secTet tc~lling. 
This bitterswPot timt~ ofchange has 
allowPd us to rnll(ll:t on what makes us 
work so WPIII.tJgnthnr. Even though 
tognthnr we'vn got lightning-I~L'it rwws 
skills, we may rwvnr quite aehieve the 
legac:y otlwr l~unous pairs have achieved 
througlmut hist.t1ry.
+ 
Milk and cookins: ;\ delidous (and maybe not nutritious, but eertainly good lilr your rmmtal hnalth) snack that both satislins your swept tooth and qunnchPs your inner thirst. 

+ 
Saturday morning and eartoons: A lazy time of relaxation that allows you to zono out altor a strnssli.d week and ean magically transport you back to your childhood. 

+ 
Sonny and ChPr: Well. minus tho divoree and tragie end to Sonny's lifo ... a truly classy coupln tlmt providcld somt1 of thn bnst dueL<; ol'tlw 60s and 70s. 

+ 
Pnanut buttnr and jelly: Who could makn a sandwieh without them? This dassk eoupln has gotten us through many a dreary luneh at the dining hall. Witlmut PB&l, college studenL<; and tiny ehildnm wouldn't have anything to cat. 

+ 
Dr. Jekyll <Uid Mr. Hyde: This pair is actually so dill'erent it's seary, but you nned one to eounterbalanee the other. This dassie story duo proved that you nev11r know what you are going to get and shownd the dual nature in all ofu..'i. 

+ 
Gin and t.tmie: Since the 1800s. this insnparable pair has been taking the edge olflili1's stressors for our ofage friends. 

+ 
Shaggy and Seooby: Separatl~ly, we wonder if they eould have functioned in sodety. They mostly just scarfed down Smoby Snaeks and ran away from ereepy villains. But together, somehow they always ended up helping solve the crime. 

+ 
Movies and popcorn: When we go see a movin, we just can't avoid the wmpta­tion ofa big bucknt of the llully yellow stuff-it's a seriously irresistible combi­nation. 

+ 
Kt~lly and Nicole: Well, we may not be a legend yet, but by bringing you the Monday edition of'The Observer lor tim p<L'it two years we've got a groat start. 


Meat <Uld potatons, Lennon and MeCartnny, salt and pepper, Bert and Ernie, Thelma and Louise, Batman and Hobin, Wayne and Garth, Barbie and Ken. Chip and Dahl. Sill and Oily-they're all grnat counterpart<;, and we can't imagine one without the other. 
Through all thn long nights, all the print11r problems and all the inside jokes, Wf~'ve figured out what really makes great partnnrs tkk. 
All the really perf(lct pairs, we'vpf(mnd, arn friends. 
Kelly and Nicole would like to dedicate this column to former AMH Joe /Jettier, who said it muldn't be done. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaOl@saintmarys.edu and Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are thos(' of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT SECTION OF THE OBSERVER DO YOU TURN TO FIRST? 



JB Bertumen  Jenna Rogers  Barbara MacDonald  Mary Morales  Christian Robles  Natassia Kwan  
senior Morrissey  sophomore McGlinn  junior McGlinn  senior off-campus  sophomore Alumni  freshman Pasquerilla West  
"The Jumble -it challenges my mind and makes me angry.  "I don't read The Observer. "  "Sports, because I like them. ,  'The funnies -1 like to see people poke fun at the Notre Dame bubble. ,  "Probably Sports, because I like seeing what happened in the NBA  "My horoscope. because I want to know {{today is the day I'll meet The One. ,  


The Notre Dame branch of the American Society of Civil Engineers competed In an annual competition to make a concrete canoe this weekend in Madison, Wis. Laura Eads, left, Colleen Loris, center, and Elisa Suarez were part of the team. 
OFFBEAT 
'Da Vinci' judge's secret code cracked by lawyer LONDON -Mystery solved. It was the admiral. 
A seeret eode embedded in thP text of a court ruling in the ease of Dan Brown's bestseller "The Da Vinci Code" has been eraeked, but far from revealing an ancient conspiracy it is simply an obscure refer­ence to a Hoyal Navy admi­ral. 
British lligh Court Justice Peter Smith, who handed down a ruling that Brown had not plagiarized his book, had embedded his own secret message in his judgment by italicizing let-
TODAY a: 
ters scattered throughout the 71-page document. 
The judge's own code briefly eaused a wave of amused speculation when it was discovered by a lawyer this week, nearly a month after the ruling was handed down. 
But the lawyer, Dan Teneh, eracked it after a day of puzzling. The judge's code was based on the Fibonacci sequence, a mathematical progression discussed in the book. 
"After mueh trial and error, we found a formula whieh fitted," wrote Tench, who had nothing to do with the Brown case but discov­
ered the italicized letters 
when studying the ruling. 
The judge's secret mes­sage was: "Jackie Fisher. who are you? Dread­nought," Tench wrote in the Guardian newspapm. 
Judge Smith is known as a navy buf1'. and Fisher was a Hoyal Navy admiral who developed the idea for a giant battleship ealled the HMS Dreadnought in the early 20th century. 
Tench wrote that the judge had e-mailed him to eonfirm he had guessed thn seeret code right. 

Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
LLI 
::z:: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 

~
....I 
<C 
(,) 0 

..... HIGH 64 HIGH 57 HIGH 69 HIGH 79 LOW 53 LOW 33 LOW 51 LOW 50 
playoffs." 
IN BRIEF 
Welsh Family llall will host its lil'th annual Clary, Murphy, Thomas Hun tonight. Thn 5K run and two mile walk will begin at 7 p.m. in front of the Dome. Hegistration is $15 and ineludes a T-shirt. The raee will Pnd with a prayer service at the (;rotto in memory of the three Notre Dam11 students who lost their battlP to leukemia. 
An 1-Movie Festival featur­ing short films ereatPd by Saint Mary's studnnts will bn held in ()'Laughlin Auditorium tonight at 7 p.m. 
The Notre Dame softball team will l'aee Loyola-Chieago Tuesday at 5 p.m. at Ivy Field. 
Notre Dame baseball will take on Cleveland State Tuesday at 5:05 p.m. in the Frank Eck Stadium. 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band will hold its Spring Concert Tuesday at 8 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of thP DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The publie is weleome to this free event, but must reserve tickets by calling the Tieket Office at 631-2800. 
The Saint Mary's music department will host a spring choral concert Thursday from 
7:30 p.m. to 9:30 in the Little Theater in the Moreau Center for the Arts. The concert will feature performances by the Collegiate Choir, Bellacapella and thP Women's Choir. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Obsen,er, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 67 HIGH 61 LOW 45 LOW 40 
Atlanta 73 I 49 Boston 59 I 41 Chicago 63 I 44 Denver 72 I 40 Houston 82 I 65 Los Angeles 68 I 54 Minneapolis 70 I 48 New York 68 I 46 Philadelphia 70 I 43 Phoenix 80 I 57 Seattle 63 I 47 St. Louis 71 I 49 Tampa 84 I 62 Washington 68 I 48 
Monday, May 1, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


SMC -will cut do-wn trail trees 
Decision based on Department ofNatural Resources recommendation 
By KELLY MAUS 
News Wrirer 
With the weathnr in South Bend finally warming up, many studPnts have begun to venture outside to enjoy the many beautiful spring sights. But students who run the trails behind t-he Saint Mary's earn pus may have noticPd a change in the scen-ery. 
After a recent visit from the Department of Natural Resources, tlw College was advised to clear many of the trees located llfHtr the trails to maintain the area's indigenous beauty and over­all safety. 
Aside from clearing away damaged and dying trees, workers took special care to assure that certain species of exotic plants and trees were removed in order to restore the woodnd area to its natu­ral appearance. Some of the exotic plants that were removed included honey­suckles and wild grape. 
"These plants often obstruct the natural canopy of the forest and can act as a sail to brPak treetops during severe storms," CEO of Holy Cross Services Corporation Judith Johns said. 
Johns, under the recom­mendation of a professional forester. decided to follow the advice given by the 

Department of Natural Resources to complete the two-week removal process. Another reason for the removal of many of these trees was due to "recent tor­nadoes touching down in the area. destroying many of the treetops," Johns said. 
Sophomore Mary Frantz is one of the College's many students who enjoy the trails as a welcome backdrop for a jog. 
"The trails are one of my favorite places to run." Frantz said. 
However, Frantz also said the tree removal makes a drastic difference in the look of her running course. 
"The trails look a lot differ­ent than they did earlier in the year ... not as natural," she said. 
But Johns said the missing trees are being put to good use. 
"Much of the trees cleared from the area were sold as hardwood with the profits being reinvested back into maintaining the area," she said. 
The profits made from the sale will be used in removing various exotic shrubs and plants from the area. 
Contact Kelly Maus at kmausO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Mexican doctors con1e to train Puebla-bound 
By BECKY HOGAN 
News Wrirer 
This fall. 16 pre-professional students will travel to Puebla, Mexico as part of a study abroad program where they will shadow doctors. intern in hospitals, observe surgeries and help in emergency rooms and family practice otlices -and last week. three doctors from the Mexican city came to campus to prepare them for the experience. 
The visit marks the second time doctors from Puebla have visited Notre Dame since the pro­gram began in the fall of 2001, an effort to allow more science majors to study abroad. 
Dr. Francisco Albisua, a spe­cialist in general surgery, Dr. Hector Dominguez, a specialist in general practice, public health and hospital administration, and Dr. Rodolfo Barragan, a specialist in orthopedics and emergency medicine, informed students of the experiences in store for them next year and answered any questions they had about the process. 
The doctors from Puebla also met with doctors from Memorial Hospital of South Bend to set up their own exchange program with the medical community of Puebla. 
Memorial Hospital has been working with the program in Mexico by giving students who plan to go to Puebla an orienta­tion and teaching them how to administer injections. 
Director of the Office of International Studies Claudia Kselman, who proposed that Notre Dame start a pre-med pro­gram in Mexico, said the pro­gram is unique because it estab­lishes links between not only Mexican and American universi­ties but also Mexican and American hospitals. 
"Mexico is a source of so many immigrants to the United States. and [this program] helps future doctors to understand the cultur­al and medical backgrounds of their patients." she said. 
Sophomore Natalie Rodden, who plans to go to Puebla next fall, said she wanted to be part of the Puebla program to experi­ence Mexico's culture and to be immersed in the Spanish lan­guage. 
"Being a pre-med anthropology and Spanish major, [the Puebla program] jives perfectly with my course of study," Rodden said. "Learning the language is invalu­able to the health profession." 
They also live with Mexican families or students during their semester abroad and experience the Mexican culture, language and healthcare system. 
Rodden said students will be working in the hospital two days a week and sometimes on week­ends, shadowing doctors and even treating patients. 
Contact Becky Hogan at bhogan@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, May 1, 2006 


ND, USC debate fall tnatchup 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
Associate News Ediwr 
It has been HO years since then­head football coach Knute Hockne and his band of Fighting Irish rode a train out west for Notre Dame's first game against the University ofSouthern California. 
But a new Notre Dame-USC football tradition was launched Friday as USC debaters flew east to argue the outcome of the up1~oming Nov. 25 game. 
The teams gathered to debate the resolution "that the University of Notre Dame should defeat the University of Southern California in the 2006 collegiate football contest." 
No debate winner was announced, however, as debate tnam direetor and film, television and theater professor Susan Ohmer said the overwhelmingly Notre Dame audience would be biased. 
Two debaters represented each university. Notre Dame's competi­tors were Corey Mehlos, a sopho­more and policy debate team president, and Tim Fiorta, a sen­ior and parliamentary debate team president. 
Debating lilr USC were Michael Smith, a sophomore whose high school debate reeord earned him a full scholarship to compete on the Trojan Debate Squad, and Brandon llancock, a senior who has started two seasons at full­bark for the Trojans. 
While the USC debaters focused on the Trojans' home-team advantage in November's game, Notre Dame representatives spoke about the lnadership the 1H 

Theft 
continued from page 1 
"I guess I never realized how mueh it can add up," fresh­man Martha Calcutt said. "I've never really thought twice about a few spoons here, a few cups there." 
And theft has increased in recent years, Prentkowski said. 
"It could be related to our new policy of allowing book bags into the dining rooms so they ]won't] be stolen from the lobby areas," he said. "Monitors are stationed at the exits and frequently 'remind' students that permanent ware is not to be removed. Some students seem annoyed by this, ]but] some understand." 
In order to decrease the replacement cost for next year, Food Services will be placing boxes at both dining halls and in some of the dorms during finals week to retrieve "borrowed" items. While this may help, typically only about one percent of stolen items are returned to Food Services, Prentkowski said. 
While some students feel 


returning starters will bring to the field. The coaching advantage remained debatable, as each con­tingent defended its own head coach. 
Mehlos argued that the Fighting Irish would have the advantage because of three factors -execu­tion, "nastiness" and desire. 
He emphasized the impact of the nine returning offensive starters, a lineup which includes wide receivers Hhema McKnight and Jeff Samardzija and running backs Darius Walker and Travis Thomas. 
In the first argument for USC, Smith acknowledged that both Notre Dame and USC are football dynasties, but argued that USC had a recruiting advantage based on recent history. 
"Although many young men dream of waking up echoes and shaking down thunder, recruits choose the program with most chance of immediate success," Smith said. "Notre Dame is back, and we couldn't be happier. But while you were away, [USC] laid the groundwork that wiJI lead to our victory in November." 
Notre Dame's Fiorta agreed the current situation outweighs the two teams' rich legacies -but that will help Notre Dame take down USC in November, he said. 
"Lot's keep things current," he said. "Tim Brown and the Four Horsemen aren't going to suit up. Heggie Bush and Matt Leinart aren't going to suit up. 
"I think Jimmy Clausen sees where recruiting is going, and he'll be heading to South Bend because of that." 
In his speech for the Trojans, Ilancock said that Irish quarter-
that because they pay for room and board they should be entitled to take what they please from the dining halls, Prentkowski said he wants to remind students "costs increase every year as the costs of the lost items increase." 
"In anticipation of this loss we are required to submit a higher than desired expense budget," he said. "Room and board fees must be increased to cover this." 
Contact Molly Lamping at mlampiO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
MCAT LSAT GMAT GRE DAT. 
last Day to Beat the Price Increase 
The prices of our Classroom and Premium Online Courses are going up. Enroll today to lock in the current price! 
Classes Starting Soon!!!! MCAT:May 13th LSAT: May 11th GRE: May 16th GMAT: June 6th 
Calll-800-KAP-TEST or visit kaptest.com. 
Higher test scores guaranteed or your money back:· 

TEST PREP AND ADMISSIONS 

6PGA0016 ·rest flln'IM are 'eGillttreCJ tradetnarkS ofthelf I'BSfle:::t!lf!l ~~ ·<coodiiiO~ and MStr.cti\Hl$ apply Foe complete ,warat'!\118 eli!iib!NI:y ~UftlllfJflla. v~ ...plett c:onY'llag The Hlghecr Score Guar;antM applies only to Kaplan coorM!S takon and comoltlfl<l whl'lm thu Unhd Slates C•~ ¥&xlco. the Unfted K•nodom 1nd Fr1nce 'Pnce-lflC.rNWIW~ to ClaMroom E).1r&rne:. lrv.! PremiUm Online CoL!raat 
., 
back Brady Quinn will "almost certainly" be a Heisman candi­date next season and conceded the quarterback advantage to the Irish. But projected USC starting quarterback John David Booty ­who Fiorta said has compiled sta­tistics primarily in easy games ­will be entirely protected by the USC offensive line, Hancock said. 
"These guys are behemoths," he said. "These guys have more mass than the Catholic Church." 
In his rebuttal, Smith argued that the Trojans displayed more commitment to the game. 
"Your best defensive player is a better boxer. Your best offensive player is a better baseball player," Smith said, referring to Irish defensive back Tom Zbikowski and Samardzija. "Our players are more dedicated·to football." 
Fiorta had a quick response. 
"Matt Leinart is a better dancer," he said. "We could go all around with this." 
Ohmer prefaced the open ques­tion-and-answer period by instructing the audience that both USC and Notre Dame policy for­bids answering questions about "pending investigations." 
She warned audience members against inquiring into the affairs of USC quarterback Mark Sanchez or former USC running back and 2005 Heisman Trophy winner Reggie Bush. 
Sanchez was charged with sex­ual assault last week, and news organizations have questioned the relationship Bush's family had with a sports agent last year. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel @nd.edu 

Mendoza 
continued from page 1 
leadership position in busi­ness, because the practice of business has such wide-rang­ing implications for our socie­ty and the world we live in," Woo said in the article. "The challenge for us, and for our students and alumni, is to be worthy of this responsibility." 
In its student comments section, BusinessWeek online quoted one student who cred­ited Notre Dame for "some­thing that has been hard to measure -a sense of family." 
" [ T h e 

University's] "The challenge for Association to 
Catholic character us, andfor our Advance teaches its stu­Collegiate
students and 
dents to work ethi­Schools of
alumni is to be
cally in the busi­Business ness world," the worthy ofthis (AACSB) and "exceed cut­
student comment responsibility. " 
said. offs" for at 
BusinessWeek least two of based its rankings Carolyn Woo three criteria on five sources of dean -"universi­data -a student Mendoza College of ty-wide SAT 
survey, a recruiter and ACT
Business 
survey, median starting salaries for graduates, the number of graduates admit­ted to top MBA programs and "an academic quality meas­ure." 
The measure consists of SAT/ACT scores of business majors, faculty-student ratios, average class size in core business classes, the percentage of majors with internships and the number of hours students spend preparing for class every week. 
The average SAT and ACT scores for business majors are 1379 and 31.9, respec­tively, according to BusinessWeek online. The median starting salary for Mendoza graduates is $47,500. The College of Business enrolls 1,569 under­graduate students who major in four areas -accountancy, finance, management and marketing. 
In the fall of 2005, Notre 
• 
Dame's College of Business did not admit any external transfers. In an article in the March 3 edition of The Observer, Woo said the College of Business should not grow larger -and Assistant Dean Samuel Gaglio agreed. 
"There is a pedagogical limit to the size of any class on campus," he said in the March 3 article. "It hurts the quality of the class if you go beyond that." 
BusinessWeek online said to become eligible for the list, schools must offer an under­graduate business program, receive accreditation from the 
scores, per­
centage of 

applicants accepted, and percentage of students coming from the top 10 percent of their high school class." The eligibility standards were implemented in order to pare down the list to "no more than-100 schools. 
"BusinessWeek ranked the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School and the University of Virginia's Mcintire School of Commerce ahead of Notre Dame in its list. 
Rounding out the top five were business programs from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Emory University and the University of Michigan-Ann Arbor. Other Catholic universities in the top 25 were Georgetown (13), Villanova (19) and Boston College (23). 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 


--~---------~-~---~------~-------------~------------------------------. 




ORLD & NATION 


Monday, May 1, 2006 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Nuclear scientist released 
ISLAMABAD -A senior Pakistani nuclear scientist detained more than two years ago in an investigation into the spread of sensitive technology has been released, a Pakistan army spokesman said Sunday. 
Mohammed Farooq, who worked at Pakistan's top nuclear weapons facility, was detained in December 2003 along with 10 other people after a scandal broke that the head of the facility. Abdul Qadeer Khan, gave sensitive technology to Iran, Libya and North Korea. 
Farooq was director general at Khan Hesearch Laboratories and was suspected of leaking technology on Khan's orders. 
Farooq was released from detention last week, said army spokesman Maj. Gen. Shaukat Sultan. "He has been released and allowed to go home," Sultan told The Associated Press. 
Parliament passes cease-fire 
KATMANDU -Nepal's lawmakers called Sunday for elections to an assembly to rewrite the constitution and for a cease-fire with Maoist insurgents. 
Parliament also called for negotiations with the Maoists, who played a key role in protests that forced Nepal's king to give up power last week. Prime Minister Girija Prasad Koirala, who was sworn in earlier in the day, urged the rebels to join the political mainstream. 
Koirala's government must now name dates for the election, part of his effort to keep his political alliance together and steer the trou­bled Ilimalayan country toward peace and democracy. 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Garbage haulers consider strike 
SEATTLE -A. union representing 600 Seattle­area garbage-truck drivers rejected two pro­posed contracts, raising the threat of a strike. 
Officials at Teamsters Local 174 planned to meet Sunday to discuss whether they would return to the bargaining table or strike. Garbage service for some 2 million households and thou­sands of businesses in King and Snohomish coun­ties is at stake. 
Waste Management spokeswoman Lynn Brown said the Houston-based company has a contin­gency plan to continue service, but called specu­lation of a strike premature. The company had not met with union leaders since the vote, she said. 
Employees angry over oil-tax bill 
JUNEAU -The heat is being turned up on the Legislature on proposed changes to Alaska's oil tax system. At stake are billions of dollars and possibly the future of a $25 billion natural­gas pipeline that would run natural gas to Midwestern markets. 
The change would create a production tax that is based on the profits of oil companies' Alaska operations. 
The tax is to be rolled into a contract between Gov. Frank Murkowski and BP, ConocoPhillips and Exxon Mobil Corp. on a key factor in build­ing a pipeline -the tax and royalty terms to recover the 35 trillion cubic feet of North Slope natural gas. The governor is keeping the con­tract under wraps until the new tax is passed and the regular legislative session ends. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Molton iron spill causes fire 
EAST CIIICAGO. Ind. -A lire sparked by a spill of about 200 tons of molten iron has shut down part of Mittal Steel USA's plant at Indiana llarbor, a company ollicial said. 
A preliminary rnport indicates that the 2.000-dngrn11 liquid metal spilled Friday night from a giant ladh~ when a crane's hoist became entangled with the ladle's tilting mechanism. 
Otw pPrson was treated for minor injur_ies and another was taken to the hospital fot· obsorvation. but both employees later returned to work. said Mittal spokesman David Allen. 
CotvtPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WlRE SERVlCES page 5 
NIGERIA 

Rebels reject peace agreement 
Failed peace negotiations leave thousands dead, more than two million homeless 
Associated Press 

ABUJA -Sudanese rebels 
rejected a proposal to end 
the bloodshed in the Darfur 
region on Sunday, throwing 
into question the outcome of 
yet another series of negotia­
tions to put a stop to fighting 
that has left tens of thou­
sands of people dead. 
The rebels called for 
changes to the deal hours 
before an African Union 
deadline -and after the 
Sudanese government indi­
cated it would accept the 
proposal. 

In Washington, actors, ath­
letes, politicians and reli­
gious leaders rallied to call 
attention to the Darfur con­
flict and urge greater U.S. 
involvement in ending what 
the United Nations has called 
one of the world's worst 
humanitarian disasters. 
Years of fighting between 
ethnic groups and Arab mili­
tias in western Sudan have 
left at least 180,000 people 
dead and about 2 million 
homeless. Darfur's violence 
recently spilled into neigh­
boring Chad and threatens to 
escalate: Osama bin Laden 
last week urged his followers 
to go to Sudan to fight a pro­
posed U.N. presence. 
Amid the negotiations, the 
plight of 3 million refugees in 
Darfur has worsened. The 
U.N. World Food Program said Friday that it was cut­ting rations in half, citing a serving as a backdrop. The Sudanese government sion of funds into a region lack of funds. "The personal motivation had said it was ready to sign the draft document 
Sudan has indicated it for a lot of us is the the· agreement. But a described as "historically 
might accept a U.N. force in Holocaust," said Boston­spokesman for one of deprived." 
Darfur to aid African Union based Rabbi Or Rose of Sudan's rebel factions said Hussein, the rebel 
troops if a peace treaty is Jewish Seminarians for the proposal does not ade­spokesman, said the agree­
signed, and the head of Justice. "Given our history quately address implementa­ment was "imbalanced.'' 
Sudan's delegation, Magzoub and experience, we feel an tion nor their key demands "We are not going to sign it 
El-Khalif, said Sunday the obligation to stand up and for a vice president from as it is," he said. 
government is willing to speak out." Darfur and more autonomy. AU spokesman Noureddine 
accept a draft resolution cir­Among those headlining Hahmed Hussein, a Mezni said the talks' man­
culated last week. the Washington rally was the spokesman for the Justice date requires negotiations to 
Secretary of State actor George Clooney. and Equality Movement, said end by Sunday night, but a 
Condoleezza Rice called on "You feel completely over­he was speaking for both partial agreement could 
China and Russia to join the whelmed," Clooney, just back rebel factions. open up options. 
United States in pushing from a trip to Africa with his Among other provisions, a "Mediation is not going to 
Sudan to accept U.N. forces. father, told AP Radio News draft of the agreement circu­change the document or 
At the rally in Washington, ahead of the rally. "We flew lated last week called for a reopen the negotiation at this the crowd chanted "Not on over areas and my father cease-fire. But both sides late hour," Mezni said. our watch" as a parade of and I would look at each have agreed to a truce "However, if the parties speakers lined up for their other and go, this is just too before, only to keep fighting, agreed among themselves on turn on a stage on the much. But then what are we even in the last week. The any part of the document, we National Mall, the Capitol to do? Nothing?" draft also calls for an infu-shall accommodate them." 

Youths charged with brush fires 
county juvenile detention center. The fires also destroyed two fire
Associated Press 

Firefighters had the major blaze 75 trucks, and killed several pets, 
LEHIGH ACRES, Fla. -A pair of percent contained Sunday afternoon Forrest said. ''I'm aware we lost one 10-year-old boys were charged but worried that wind and rising goat and a couple dogs," he said. · Sunday with setting weekend brush temperatures could stoke hot spots, Some residents who own construc­fires tha,t have destroyed or damaged said Gerry LaCavera, a state wildfire tion equipment sueh as bulldozers more than two dozen homes and specialist. Four smaller fires were were helping to extinguish the burned more than 1,500 acres in contained Saturday. No one was flames with dirt, LaCavera said. southwp,st Florida, authorities said. injured. Hesidents were allowed back in the 
Both were arrested and charged as At least nine homes and four sheds area Sunday afternoon, Forrest said. juveniles with intentional and reck­wPre dPstroyed, and an unknown About 60 people evacuated their less burning of land, a third-degree number of other homes suffp,red homes and had spent Saturday night felony, Lee County sheriff's Lt. Robert some type of damage, said Gerry at a recreation center. Forrest said. Authorities were seek­LaCavera, wildfire mitigation special­About 1,000 customers lacked ing a third youth. ist with thP Florida Division of power in the county Sunday. accord­
The boys were being held at the Forestry. ing to the LCEC energy company. 
·-~·~~-----___::__________::________:___:___:·:=_=·-=--=-~-____:_~=-=-:--:___:_·~"~::..:-::.__::-~-=-=-=-=-=-=-::..::--=-=====-=-=-=-=--::..:-::.::-:..::.-..::.-.:::.:--::.::-::.=-:.::::---~-:::::=--=-==-~:::.:--::.::-:_::-...=..-:::.:--:....:-:_::-.=_-:::....::--:....:-....:..-..:....-:....:-·:....:..·____:_·:....:--:....:-....::.-____---=...:...._..:....___..J 
Monday, May I , 2006
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Kernan 
continued from page 1 

"And I Inarned a lot from tlwm." 
Tlw class was originally slat­ed to lw taught in DnBartolo. but was rdoeatnd to the Main Building in order to creatn a mow snminar-likn atmosphere. 
During tho Vietnam War, Kernan snrved as a flight ollicer on thn U.S.S. Kitty llawk. In 1972 hn was shot down during a reconnaissance mission and held as a prisonnr of war for 11 months. 
Knrnan continued his snrvicfl in the Navy until 1974 and was given, among other awards two l'urpln llnarts and the Navy Commendation Medal. 
In 19X7 he was electnd mayor of South Bend, a position he held for nine years. He was elncted Lt. Governor of being bipartisan and working on both sides. lie's a very good moderator ... he understands both points of view." 
In order to get into the dass, students had to present a resume and statement of inter­est. Kernan said his students did not have any major projects for the course, but had to write a final, opnn-ended refleetion. 
"I was looking for them to give me an idea of what they got out of the course, their thoughts and recommendations on how I could make it better," he said. "I think that most, if not all of them, will be actively engaged in their communities in one way or another, and I wouldn't bP. surprised to see someone run for office at some point down the road." 
Kernan said he has tried his best to fulfill his new role. 
"If I didn't got better, that's a bad sign for me," he said. "I think I became more comfort­able as the semester wore 
on, and I think and became the students did 
Indiana in 1996 "! didn't sense that 
any ofthe students 
Govnrnor in 2003 too." 
were intimidated, Kernan said
l'o II owing Frank ()'Bannon's death. and that was the best part of Despito Kernan's the whole expe­
certainly not my
rnputation, he said rience was meet­hn wantod to cre­intent." ing Notre Dame ate a relaxed students and atmosphorn in the Joe Kernan continuing to involve himself
classroom. former Indiana governor 
"I didn't sense 
that any ol' the 
students were 

intimidated, and that certainly 
was not my intent," Kernan 
said. "I My intent! was to ereate 
a good environment where we 
eould have eonstruetive diseus­
simL" 

Senior Peter Kralovec, onn of Kernan's students, said it was not difl'ieult to adjust to the dass. · 
"We enrtainly prnsentnd him a level of reverenee," Kralovec said. "But we also wore invited to bn ourselves very quickly in the dass beeause of his very pnrsonal and intimate style and approach." 
Kralovec said Knrnan sue­l:eeded in improving as a pro­fnssor over the course of tlw semestnr. 
"I think hn was cognizant of tlw fact that lw ruwded to adapt his method in order to get to us, and over tlw course of the snmnstnr he certainly did that," Kralovne said. 
Kralove1:, who plans to attend public servien graduate sehool, said lw took the class thinking therl' would be no bnttm expe­rinru:n than to take a eourse with someone who has boon involvml in public servien for a Ion~ lime. 
And he was not disappointnd. 
"I Knrnanl nxpressns himself in ways in which studnnts would be very comlilrtable," hn said. "lin loves baseball. he lovns South Bnnd. he loves stu­dent lifo and he's vnry rnspnet­l'u I of studnnts." 
Knrnan invited two guest spnaknrs to his elass, his Lt. <;owrnor Kathy Davis and ehief of staff Mary I>ownns. 
Snnior Laura Femwy, a rnsi­dnnt of Indiana, said Kernan had great chemistry with both speakers and was abln to con­nect with studnnts in a similar way. 
"lie .was.• really a_rpr~~aehable and men, slw s<ud. lie was open to discussing anything we wantml." 
Whiln Knrnan is a Dmnoerat. hHHWY said shn found it refrnshing that he was not over­ly mnenrnnd with sueh labels. 
"In our class we had a mix of pnopln from the political spee­trum," she said. "IKernanl talknd about the importance of' in the communi­
ty. 

The former governor is currently involved with a group of mostly local investors in the purchase of the South Bend Silver Hawks, a professional baseball team. The team remains in South Bend after it was almost reloeated to southern Illinois. 
"It has been good for the city, it's been good for the broader community. My interest in doing this was primarily in keeping this asset here," he said. "This is home for me, I love South Bend." 
In class, Kernan said he strnssed that shaping public policy doPs not necessarily need to be done through political ol'f'ice. Citizens can -and should -eontribute to their communities howeve~ they can. 
"I think one of the most valu­able things we ean learn is the responsibilities we have to the plaees we eall home," he said. 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd.edu 

Tenn., where the pastor they asked for shelter was reluetant

Fuller 

an impact on you -it'll be so uncomfortable, you won't forget it." 
lie told the audience that even though they could not fully understand the plight of the homeless, they could be wit­nesses. 
He related a letter he received from a woman in rural West Virginia, who said she wanted to help Habitat for Humanity but had no money to do so. She had no legs, was losing her lin­gers, had a disabled husband and a brother with cerebral palsy and lived in a house with no running water. 
"That's her reality," Fuller said. "And this is not in a Third World country -this is in America, one of' the riehest nations in the world." 
Fuller said he wanted to con­tinue to expand his work and take it new places, as the prob­lem of poverty was widespread and growing. IIe explained that even by building 30,000 homes per year, it would take 7,500 years to meet the curront needs of the homeless in the world. 
"So we need to up the ante, we need to sleep out more, we need to speak up now," he said. "Everyone in this room lived in a nice home, but so many of our fellow humans don't have that ehance. It's clear in the Bible ­we are our brothers' and our sisters' keepers." 
. Fuller then bid farnwell to the group, reitnrating his praise for Notre Dame's involvement in Habitat for Humanity and issu­ing audience members a chal­lenge. 
"You are wonderful rnpresen­tatives of your University and my organization," Fuller said. "But remember-to whom much is given, mueh is required." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
continued from page 1 

speech by asking those in the baek to try to move forward or else, he said, he "might think you're Baptist." 
lie also apologized for his manner of dress. 
"You must excuse me for being terribly overdressed," Fuller said, indicating the suit he had on. 
Fuller greeted the audience, saying he was honored to be on Notre Dame's campus for the weekend. He said he met with alumni Friday who were spon­soring a house in Shreveport, La. through his newest organi­zation, the Fuller Center for !lousing. I Ie also broke ground for the 99th and 100th houses built through the South Bend chapter of Habitat for Humanity -12 of' which were built exclu­sively by Notre Dame students. 
"Out of the 800 college ehap­ters of Habitat for Humanity, Notre Dame stands way high on the list," Fuller said. "I don't know of another campus chap­ter that has built more than 12 houses." 
He said while he was at the groundbreaking,' he related the story of 25 Matthew, whieh teaches service to the needy, for "inasmuch as you do it to one of' the least, you do it to me." 
"Well, the father of the family receiving the 100th house just happened to be named Jesus, and his son was Jesus, junior. So that was pretty appropriate, being able to provide Jesus with a home," Fuller joked. 
He went on to applaud those who were participating in Shack City and sleeping outside in boxes, especially in the rain. 
"It's wonderful that you're willing to get in a box and bear some discomfort to raise awareness,'' he said. "In years past, one of the greatest prob­lems Habitat had was making people aware of the problem, to let them sleep in his ehureh's basement, because Habitat for Humanity "sounds like some kind of eult," Fuller said. 
The pastor let them sleep in his backyard and use the hose to e!ean themselves ofl' -"It.'s amazing, but you really can shower with your clothes on," Fuller joked -and the next day invited them to service at his chureh. At the end of the serv­ice, while everyone was waiting to sing the closing hymn, the pastor turned to Fuller and said if he wanted to address the con­gregation, now was the time. 
"The pastor said, 'You got five minutes,' but all I had was my standard 30 minute speech," Fuller said. "But I stood up there, everyone-standing with their hymnbooks in their hands waiting to get out of there, and gave my 30 minute speech in five minutes· and walked out of Dunlap." 
Fuller said five or six years went by before he got a call from a man named Charles Henry in Dunlap, who had heard Fuller speak that day. Henry said he couldn't forget what Fuller had said, and want­ed to donate all the money he was making in a job hn took on post-retirement to Habitat for Humanity. Fuller said Henry wanted to hear all the places Habitat was working, and stopped him when he spoke of' their newest sites in Guatemala. 
"lie said, 'Guatemala! I like the sound of that. Use my money in Guatemala,"' Fuller said. 
Henry has been sending the organization checks since that day. 
"I tell you this story beeause you never know when you do something what impaet it will have. You don't know, when you sleep out tonight, who you 'II impact," Fuller said. "What you're doing will certainly have 
and what we were doing to help~~~.. fix it." 
In his organization's seventh ti~H!~ year, Fuller deeided to walk from Americus, Ga. to Indianapolis -a journey of 700 miles -to help raise aware­ness, he said. 
"Needless to say, my wife was very skeptical," he said. 
He related the story of what happened when the group of walkers made it to Dunlap, 

Undergraduate

Engagement 
HEAD COACH-High School Hockey Program 
Research,IllScholarly, 
The Penn High School Hockey Club, South Bend, 
Indiana, is currently seeking qualified candidates for the position of Head Hockey Coach. Candidates 
and 

Creative Endeavors 
will possess at least three seasons of verifiable 
Come hear Notre Dame undergraduates 
coaching experience at a comparable level, will 
present the results of their scholarly inquiry 
have attained a USA/Mid-Am Hockey Coaching Certification Level 4 prior to the end ofthe calendar year, and demonstrate the ability to take. charge of
School ofArchitecture 
the Varsity program including the coordination of the Junior Varsity coaching staff. The position will 
5th Year Final Thesis Review 
require some limited travel during the season. The 
Bond Hall Gallery, Rm. 114 
position includes a negotiable compensation 
1:15-6:oo PM, Mon. & Tue., May 1 & 2 
package commensurate with experience including travel expense reimbursement. Inquiries can be made by calling Jim @ 574-993-3335 between 5 
2nd Year Final Academic Review 
and 8 pm. 

Bond Hall Gallery, Rm. 114 1:1s-6:oo PM, Wednesday, May 3 
undergradresearch.nd.edu 
.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ -----------------~--------~ 
Monday, May 1, 2006 
MARKET RECAP Stocks 
Dow 
11,367.14 -15.37
jones 
Up: Same: Down: Contposlts Volume: 1,956 141 1,218 ~10,960.00 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ) 
-0.97 INTEL CP (INTq 
-0.50 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) 
-2.28 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 
-11.38 SUN MICROSYS INC(SUNW) 
+1.01 
Treasuries 

IO.YEARNOTE -0.30 13-WEEK BILL -0.15 30-YEARBOND -0.25 5-YEARNOTE -0.83 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BEWES (cents/lb.) 
Exchan Rates 

YEN 
EURO POUND CANADIAN$ -0.15 50.69 -0.07 46.50 -0.13 s1.69 -0.41 49.20 
-0.41  41.85  
-0.10  19.98  
-0.34  14.59  
-3.10  24.15  
+0.05  5.00  

+0.91 71.88 + 18.20 654.50 -0.18 87.18 
113.8250 0.7916 0.5476 
1.1171 

IN BRIEF 
Oil company posts high earnings 
DALLAS -ConocoPhillips, the nation's third-largest oil and gas producer, said Wednesday profit rose 13 percent as stronger exploration and production results yielded the best first-quarter earnings since Phillips Petroleum Co. and Conoco Inc. combined in 2002. 
Net income jumped to $3.29 billion, or $2.34 per share for the January-March period, from $2.91 billion, or $2.05 per share, in the year­earlier period. 
ConocoPhillips is the first of the three largest 
U.S. oil companies to report earnings this week. Exxon Mobil Corp. reports Thursday and Chevron Corp. on Friday. The three were expected this week to report a total of more than $16 billion in first-quarter profits. 
Honda net profits double 
TOKYO-Honda more than doubled its net profit for the January-March quarter from a year ago as soaring vehicle sales in Asia and Europe oflSet a decline in Japan. 
Honda Motor Co., Japan's No. 3 automaker, said Wednesday it racked up 219.5 billion yen ($1.9 billion) in profit for the quarter ended March 31 -a record quarterly profit for Honda and dra­matically higher than the 94 billion yen profit marked the same period the previous year. 
Quarterly sales jumped 20.6 percent to 2.83 tril­lion yen ($24. 7 billion) from 2.35 trillion yen the same period last year. 
Airline denied request for pay cuts 
CINCINNATI -A U.S. Bankruptcy Court judge on Wednesday denied Delta subsidiary Comair's request to reject its contract with its 970 flight attendants so it can impose pay cuts to stay in business. 
Judge Adlai Hardin in U.S. Bankruptcy Court said requirements of the bankruptcy law that would allow the rejection of a collective bar­gaining agreement were not met. 
lie said Comair and the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, which represents the flight attendants, must return to the bar­gaining table to try to resolve their differ­ences. 


THE OBSERVER 











USINESS 
page 7 

Microsoft Outlook stocks fall 
Quarter earnings decline 11 percent; stockholders disappointed with results 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Stocks fin­ished mostly lower Friday as rising oil prices and a tepid outlook from Microsoft Corp. dampened Wall Street's reac­tion to a rebound in first­quarter economic growth. The major indexes ended mixed for the week and for April. 
Coupled with lower-than­expected results for the latest quarter, Microsoft's reduced forecast sent its stock falling more than 11 percent and led a broader decline in the Nasdaq composite index. 
The earnings disappoint­ment overshadowed news that the gross domestic prod­uct grew 4.8 percent last quarter, up from a 1.7 per­cent rise in the fourth quar­ter. The gain was less than economists' estimates of 4.9 percent, which suggested the economy is expanding at a comfortable pace. 
But while the GOP's infla­tion component surged 3.3 percent -well ahead of a 
2.7 percent target -the Labor Department said employment costs grew just 
0.6 percent last quarter, the smallest rise since 1999 and behind views of0.9 percent. 
Art Hogan, chief market analyst for Jefferies & Co., . said the economic data were benign for inflation and the debate over interest rates, and noted a recovery among data, with the yield on the commodities and energy 10-year Treasury note slip­prices. ping to 5.07 percent from 
"With that as a backdrop, 5.11 percent late Thursday. 
I'm not surprised to see" the The dollar was mixed against Nasdaq down and little other major currencies, and changes in the other major gold prices surged. indexes, Hogan said. "Of Crude futures recovered course, when you have a from four days of losses, lift­marquee name like Microsoft ed by supply worries after disappoint, it's hard to sit up the International Atomic on good news." Energy Agency said Iran 
The Dow Jones industrial defied the U.N. Security average dropped 15.37, or Council by enriching urani­0.14percent, to 11,367.14. um. A barrel of light crude 
Broader stock indicators rose 91 cents to settle at ended mixed. The Standard $71.88 on the New York & Poor's 500 index added Mercantile Exchange. 
0.89, or 0.07 percent, to Wall Street also weighed a 1,310.61, and the Nasdaq fell dip in consumer confidence 22.38, or 0.95 percent, to as soaring gasoline prices 2,322.57. threatened discretionary 
Bonds climbed on the GOP spending. The University of Michigan's April consumer­sentiment index slid 1.8 points to 87.4, while econo­mists expected a 0.2-point drop. 


Erratic trading left the major indexes flat for the week, with the Dow gaining 
0.17 percent and the S&P 500 off 0.05 percent. The Nasdaq lost 0.87 percent after Friday's decline gave back most of its advance from earlier in the week. 
For the month, however, the Dow jumped 2.32 percent and the S&P 500 added 1.22 percent, while the Nasdaq slid 0.7 4 percent. The Dow and S&P 500 earned much of their April gains from recent indications that the Federal Reserve may soon pause or halt its series of interest rate hikes. 
Analysts say the overall mood of the market has improved as government reports continue painting an uplifting picture of the econo­my. Now that the Fed may have boosted rates just enough to stifle demand, the market is looking for growth to gently taper in the latter half of the year, said Ed Keon, chief investment strategist for Prudential Equity. 
"There's still some danger that inflation could pick up, and higher energy prices could feed into that," Keon said. "But overall, it does not look like substantial inflation­ary pressures are develop­ing." 

Delphi plans to cancel contracts 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -With less than two weeks to go before Delphi Corp. plans to ask a federal judge to can­cel its union contracts, the auto supplier is still negotiating with its major unions and General Motors Corp. over wage cuts. 
Delphi's second-largest labor union confirmed Wednesday that it's still in talks with the company. Union executive Robert Sutton made the comments Wednesday after a media report suggested the International Union of Electronic Workers-Communications Workers of America had broken off talks because of a lack of progress. 

Sutton, secretary of the unio's automotive conference board, said the union is not in negotiations this week because it is providing depo­sitions to Delphi attorneys as part of the auto supplier's bankruptcy case. 
Sutton said those local leaders also prepared documents for the court last week that argue against the wage cuts Delphi has proposed as part of its reorganization. 
"The declarations say to the judge and to the opposing parties what we have done and haven't done and what we plan on doing to keep Delphi viable and competi­tive," Sutton said. He said he expects talks with Delphi to resume next week. 
Wayne Ranick, a spokesman for the United Steelworkers, said the union hasn't talked to Delphi in about two weeks but hasn't formal­ly ended negotiations. The steel­workers union represents about 1,000 Delphi workers. 
On the other hand, the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers met with Delphi twice last week and expects to meet with the com­pany again this week, spokesman Frank Larkin said. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, May 1, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Good students, better vandals 
1~0. !lox 779, Notr< Damo, IN 46556 024 South Dinin); Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mik.-Gilloon 
MANAGING EI>ITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hann;t Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
Ass·1: MANAGING EDITOR: Ruben Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Amanda Michaels Mary Kare Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: joey King S!'ORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Duxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PIIOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRA!'IIICS EDITOR: Graham Ebctsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEll AllMINISTRAlOR: Damian Althoff 
Svsn;Ms ADMINISTRATOR Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4';41 obsmc@lnd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene. I @nd.cdu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.cDm 
POLICIES 

11te Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students ofrhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advenisemems based on content. 
The news is reponed as ae<.:urately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, As.~istam Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presem the views of the authors and nut necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qzmtiom regarding Obmverpolicies should be direcud wEditor in ChiefMilu GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

rhc Oh.cr<v-cr (USPS 1'J<J 2-4000) ~. puhiWKJ Mond.-y thmu~h Friday cx«pt during muant oamJ vac.o~tiun ~riodl. A •ubarlvttun to ThcOburvcr 1.~ SIOI) fur one OIQ(jc;mic )'Tllfi $~' llu Ull(' M'lllntCI', 
The ObcrYCr iJ puhiOOr:d •c POITW.STER 
024 Souda Dining HAll Smd addrc::a currmions to: 
Nom:: Dame. IN 46~~779 The Ob.ervt!r 
l'criudicJJl,.,.t"Kf p;aid ar ~'"Dame ~o.s. .• n9 
~nd .• ddititln•l mallin~ office~. 024 S1lurh Din ins Hall 
Nor~ D:tmt, IN 46S~On9 
The Ohacrvcr ill • mcmbtr ofchc A.4,;:a.rcd Prw. Allrcpnx.h.&~o.·tion righu .U'c rc~rvcd. 

Well, it's my last eolumn here for The Observer. As such. I'm going to take the opportunity to talk to you about memo­ries, about the time I've cherished at Notre Dame and about the simultaneous fear and excitement I face as I enter into the real world. I'm also going to weigh in on the war in Iraq, proper chicken caging technique, abortion, gay marriage, cam­paign finance reform, tolerance and diversi­ty, the Vagina Monologues and the latest edition of "Jockular." You know, the one that you think is oll'ensive, but you're not entirely sun~ because it looks like it was drawn with a foot? 
Just kidding. Actually, I'm going to talk about the library. American Studies majors, you may just want to turn to the horoscopes at this point. 
With finals looming overhead like an obese vulture, the prospect of heading to the library becomes more and more of a reality for most students. The harsh buzz of fluorescent lighting, the low chatter of the "study" group next to you and the overwhelming claustrophobia of the study cubicles. It's enough to drive any student mad. However, for cen­turies, the bored and frustrated student has found a way to fight back against academic exhaustion: petty vandalism. 
Yes, like cave drawings or hieroglyph­ics, the scratching of a Bic into the wood of a study cubicle has long been a rite of passage for the student desperately try­ing to avoid any actual work. It provides the writer with some precious moments of thought not devoted to academia, and it also provides future readers with 

Peter Schroeder 
Will Write for Food 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
something to stare at that isn't in a text­book. Everyone who has ever studied in the library has come across some of these vandalism vignettes, but no one has ever actually given them much attention. Until now, that is. 
With no regard for my own physical wellbeing, I've accumulated over a hun­dred actual library etchings from the entire first floor and roughly half of the second. I stopped there to keep myself from spiraling into a dark void of mad­ness. And I got hungry. Nonetheless, looking at a large amount of student soliloquies provides a deep insight into the soul of the studier. 
For some students, it seems that writ­ing in cubicles serves as an open mic for a budding career as a comedian. Jokesters would pen some knee-slap­pers like, "Jesus Saves ... at Martin's," "Catholic Hebel! Eat Meat on Fridays!" and "UND(ies)." After searching the library, it is evident that this nation's future Jerry Seinfelds, Jon Stewarts and Gallaghers are hard at work writing material on cheap wooden cubicles. Of course, it is important to remember that they are working on material in lieu of studying, so I think it's also safe to say that no future Nobel laureates are in this group. 
Perhaps the most fascinating thing obtained from searching library writ­ings is the hope of past students that we now realize as unfounded and deluded. Things like "Cubs 2003 World Series," are key examples of this proud hope of a procrastinating student coming to a tragic end. ln fact, the high and lows of the football team's recent past is lived out in study cubicles. Freshmen, just pretend to know what an unsuccessful football team is like, you lucky jerks. "O'Leary-12/9/01. I was there at the beginning. I was there at the end." "10­13-02, ND is 6-0 under Ty, now 8-0, 10­3, next year all the way!" "ND Football 2003-Why are we so bad? Tyro1w Losingham." "12-14-04 ND Football res­urrected, Go Coach Weis!" One can only hope that next year we see vandalism like "Brady Quinn-Ileisman Trophy," "Notre Dame -National Champions" and ''I'd never seen a man weep and wet himself on national tnlevision bnfore. Thanks, Coach Carroll." 
For many, cubiele writing is simply a means of venting. Things like "Finals Suck," "I Hate Orgo," "LSATS Bite" and "I Hate Calc" run rampant in the library. Perhaps these students fear that others may believe that they love ealcu­lus and other nerd-related fields, and these writings an~ attempts to allay those suspicions. Consider suspicions allayed. 
However, it appears that sometimes intense studying will simply drive a stu­dent into madness; I can offer no other explanation for these ones. "Curse you, Hed Baron," "The Batman Lives On," "I pooped a hammer," and "My intestines are over 2 miles long." President Jenkins, please consider easing the workload of the student body; it's driv­ing them insane. And also apparently making them poop hammers. 
While you're cramming information into your brain at a frantic rate, don't forget your surroundings. And heek, if no one's looking, leave a message for future frustrated students, it's as much a part of our heritage as the Four Horsemen and Hudy. Scratch one for the Gipper. 
Peter Schroeder is a senior English major. As for plans after graduation, he is open to suggestions. lie can be con­tacted at pschroed@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

Notre Dame needs Catholic faculty 
It is my opinion that recent letters to The Observer have presented the rationale for opposing certain elements of Father Jenkins' closing statement on academic freedom both thoroughly and eloquently. As such, I will concern myself with addressing the April 24 edi­torial of Father David Kashangaki, CSC ("Closing statement response"). 
Father Kashangaki argues that the hiring of Catholic faculty is not essential to maintaining and expressing Catholic identity at Notre Dame. He attempts to justify this in saying that students must engage the culture by encountering diversity, and that it was actually non­Christian faeulty who imparted indis­pensable knowledge about Catholicism to him during his time at Notre Dame. However, at the same time, he laments the lack of Catholic perspective in aca­demic disciplines outside theology and philosophy, stating that he "would have benefited immensely from such input." 
Father Kashangaki, what you need to realize is that the horrendous deficien-
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Sports  OBSERVER POLL  
Nicole Zook  Ken Fowler  
Kelly Meehan  Eric Retter  What are you doing  
Katie Kohler  Chris Khorey  this summer?  
Mary Kate  Jay Fitzpatrick  
Malone  Chris Hine  
Viewpoint  Scene  
Margie Rosmonowski Graphics  Molly Griffin  Vote by Tuesday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com  
James Rudy  

cy in Catholic catechesis among incom­ing Notre Dame students will not be remedied by the off chance that they will fruitfully learn about the faith from those who do not fully share it. I have been in many classes where non­Catholic professors (and, regrettably, even Catholic ones) have pressed inex­cusably contrary interpretations of Catholic teaching upon a slew of impressionable Catholic students. 
Father, you have correctly identified the problem: that the faith and the world are not engaging each other in the classrooms. But the solution is not to accept the situation and hope that a largely indifferent student body will seek out for themselves what Catholicism has to say. Rather. the University must pursue practicing Catholic faculty who are at the tops of their respective fields and who also have the ability to foster an engaging dialogue within the classroom. If you say there are certain non-Catholic scholars who can effectively present the 
sb 't.. a1,)ett....er
)Ut;ll •·. to tbe Editor at 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 


Catholic worldview, is it too far-fetched to think that carefully chosen Catholic scholars can adeptly incorporate secu­lar or contrary views into the curricu­lum? 

As a genuinely Catholic university, we should start from the latter angle, with the aim of promoting knowledge and appreciation of Catholic insights while also maintaining academic excellence in a very secular world. Most impor­tantly, a more visible majority of prae­ticing Catholics among the faculty would provide an invaluable everyday example of faith in student life-Holy Cross priests need not be the sole, extraordinary models on campus. I do believe that Father Jenkins has expressed his support for this goal of Catholic hiring, and I hope it will be realized. 
Brian MacMichael 
graduate student 
theology 
April28 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Truth is always the strongest argument." 
~.( 
Sophocles ·· Greek tragic poet 
I 
..... ;t 
...~: 

.' 
' 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Monday, May 1, 2006 
page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Response to Jenkins' closing statement 
Dmtr Father Jenkins, 
I write in support of your recent closing statement. Issues attendant to academic freedom have been thoroughly vetted not only in the recent University dialog you initiated but in the subsequent exchange of views in the media. However, there appears to have been somewhat less emphasis upon the benefits of raising awareness regarding domestic violence as well as the dangers of failing to ade­quately address the presence of such vio­lence. In my view, any presentation on eampus authorized by faeulty that rea­sonably promotes an awareness of domestk violence in our society is one that should be encouraged. 
Notre Dame can be a part of the cutting edge in identifying all aspects of domestic violence and in understanding the devas­tating impaets of sueh violence on our families. Alternatively, the University can set up its camp out on the periphery and bP.come an integral eomponent of the trailing edge. Until the recent open dialog and your final decision, it certainly appearnd that on the issue of domestic violnncn, Notre Dame tlmded more to the latter position. 
llaving reeently rec1dved a gubernatori­al appointment as a district court judge, I thought that my undergraduate years at Notrn Dame, my law school education at UC Berkeley and well over 20 years of private practice adequately prepared me for the position. This has turned out to be true, with one notable exception. What I wasn't prepared for was the number of domestic violence cases that I would have to pass judgment on. I was expecting per­haps as many as twenty domestic vio­lenee cases per week, but in far too many instances I have had to deal with at least that many per day. With such an onslaught of domestic violence and relat­ed matters, at times it seems as though I am presiding over the disintegration of family, moral values and a portion of our society. 
My eourt is located in Santa Fe, easily one of the most affiuent cities in New Mexico as well as one where Catholics are far and away the most predominant religious group. Perhaps it is with some irony that in Santa Fe, the state capital, the City of the Holy Faith (as its name is translated from Spanish), there is hard evidence on a daily basis of a burgeoning domestie violenee crisis at the same time that some in the Church here, as well as some out on the Notre Dame campus, seem to have difficulty envisioning the possibility that a substantial number of perpetrators and victims alike are Catholic. 
In my view, this has the makings of a crisis if the issue of domestic violence eontinues to be relegated to hushed eor­ners, far enough away from polite dis­course so as not to be ofl'ensive. As with the clergy sex abuse scandals (which first 
Purpose of 'Town' unclear 
This letter is in response to a pieee that ran in last week's The Observer {"'College Town' survey to seek student input," April 20). The report described an initiative undertaken by various undergraduate lead­ers and marketing professor Tim Gilbride to "conduct market researeh to determine what Notre Dame students would want to see in neighborhood development projects." This would seem to be at odds with the opening statement of the story, proclaiming that these people plan to gather "data for developers to help create a "College Town," tailored to the needs of Notre Dame stu­dents -specifically getting to and fmding off-campus entertainment. Are we talking about neighborhood development? Or entertainment development? Are we talking about the needs of a community (which happens to extend well beyond the Notre Dame periphery)? Or the consumer impuls­es of temporary residents? 
There is no Platonic Ideal of the "College Town." The "college town" comes into being through an organic process by which both the "eollege" and the "town" are allowed to express their distinctive characteristies within that shared territory of mutual inter­aetion. The "college town" must be able to support local businesses and must be a plaee where both students and local resi­dents feel at home. The "college town" should not simply become an extension of the Notre Dame eampus-systematically pushing the boundaries southward until Near Northeast is finally purged ofits less attractive elements. And it should not be devised by corporate marketers and devel­opers whose primary frame of reference gives preference to large national ehains. We have Grape and Main for that. 
Let m11 be clear: I am totally in favor of a "college town" environment-in fact, I have long felt that both Notre Dame and South Bend suffer for lack of sueh an atmos­phere. I recognize that development must happen for this to beeome a reality. But I am also highly suspieious of marketing schemes that attnmpt to create a community out of upper-middle class consumer demand and that fail to understand the actual needs of n(Jighborhoods and residents. "Data" for developers to create a "eollege town" for Notre Dame students? Excuse me for saying so, but that would be so typical of Notre Dame! 
So as not to be labeled a naysayer, I will include a constructive proposal. If Notre Dame wishes to be involved in the develop­ment of a "college town," let it invest in the LaSalle building in downtown South Bend, convert the old hotel rooms into apart­ments, provide shuttle services (or better yet, a bike path!) to and from campus and install a coffee shop and restaurant in the ground-level retail space. Students will have immediate aecess to several good restau­rants, coffee shops and the Morris Performing Arts Center. With a Notre Dame residence downtown, other businesses will be attracted to and will cater to this eco­nomic target, students will have more opportunities to become positively involved in the South Bend community and eventual­ly the territory between Notre Dame and downtown will sprout the seeds ofshared commitment to a more sustainable and communally responsible vision of the "col­lege town." 
As you consider the survey that you have recently been invited to participate in, please keep the following in mind-you are not mere consumers of some ideal place called "College Town." There is more at stake than your desire for entertainment. There is also more to being a Catholic uni­versity than figuring out the degree to which controversial events are either to be sanc­tioned or outlawed and assigning named saints to campus cluster terminals. 
In the words of Gaudium et Spes, one responsibility of modern Catholies is to remember that "freedom is often crippled by extreme destitution, just as it can wither in an ivory-tower isolation brought on by overindulgence in the good things of life. It can, however, be strengthened by aecepting the inevitable constraints of social life, by undertaking the manifold demands of human relationships and by service to the community at large." 
Samuel Thomas 
graduate student 
rheology 
April26 

came to light in the Archdiocese of Santa Fe well over 20 years ago), an integral part of the solution is first to openly acknowledge that a problem even exists, then to engage in a reasoned dialogue as to the best range of solutions. 
A failure by Notre Dame to raise the awareness of domestic violence among students by whatever reasonable means necessary amounts to failure of educa­tional vision. In addition, failing to ade­quately address the domestic violence eri­sis means that women and young chil­dren, the predominant victims of such violence, will continue to suffer without having their needs substantially recog­nized, mueh less met. 
Such a failure will result in very sub­stantial costs to our society. Domestic vio­lence often begets domestic violence. Study after study has indicated that a vic­tim of domestic violence is in later life considerably more likely to perpetrate sueh violenee than an individual who has no such history. Notre Dame can actively participate in breaking the cyele of vio­lence by taking a leadership role on the issue of recognizing and dealing compre­hensively with the domestic violence cri­sis. 
Among the many duties that Notre Dame has is educating her students such that they are fully prepared to move out into society with adequate awareness of its problems and the possible range of solutions or, at the very least, an ade­quate framework for creating some answers. This can certainly be promoted not only by campus presentations that raise awareness of domestic violence but by subsequent discussions guided by Notre Dame faculty members as to the appropriate response(s) to this crisis. 
The better Notre Dame's students are prepared to admit and understand the grim realities of domestic violence ­even if it takes somewhat shocking pre­sentations to do it-the better they will be able to help lead us to new answers. More than any other university, and cer­tainly any Catholic university, Notre Dame is the gold standard out here. If the University continues on its current path, I am hopeful that its recent stance on aca­demic freedom will move us to new levels of understanding and commitment on the issue of resolving domestic violence. 
I applaud your courage, not only in beginning a remarkably open dialogue within the Notre Dame community con­cerning aeademic freedom, but in reach­ing an honorable decision. As well, I respect your fortitude and grace in the faee of the sometimes harsh and disre­spectful commentary brought on by that decision. In my view, history will prove you to be on the right side of this issue. 
Raymond Z. Ortiz alumnus Class of 1975 April27 


Debate welcomed 
Somewhere, Eve Ensler is smiling. Years ago she compiled a series ofinter­views with women who were, for the most part, victims ofviolence. She then took those interviews and distilled them into a relatively brief performanee piece, the purposes ofwhich were to raise awareness ofviolence against women and to inspire debate. 
I submit that she has succeeded beyond her wildest e":pectations, at least with regard to serving as a muse. I have enjoyed reading the disparate responses to this play, to University President Father John Jenkins' state­ments and to the ongoing debate in gen­eral. While there are those who have approached the issues at hand through diatribe and narrow-mindedness, there have also been those who have shown civility in giving voiee to honest debate. Regardless of position, I would like to thank all those who have contributed. They have shown the heights to which thoughtful contemplation can rise, as well as the depths to which rigidity can cause us to sink. In all, it has been illu­minating. 

As for myself, I thank Father Jenkins for his reasoned response. While I do not agree in full with the positions he has taken on several issues to date, I am glad to see that the voices ofdissent will not be silenced, at least not today. 
Joe Sinnott 
altunnus 
Class of1976 


Participation encouraged 
As the Acting Chair ofFilm, Television, and Theatre during Spring semester last year, I need to set the record straight about Bishop D'Arcy's statement, as reported in The Observer, that his invita­tion to participate in the panel discussion about "The Vagina Monologues" was "withdrawn at the last minute." That might make for a great story, but this i'>n't what occurred. He is correct in asserting that he and the diocese were notified well in advance about the events and encour­aged to have a representative on the panel. We received no response to thi<; invitation. Given that lack ofresponse, we then proceeded to organize a panel dis­cussion that included a variety ofdifferent perspectives on "The Vagina Monologues." Onee we had formalized that panel, we had posters printed and information about the events that day was widely cireulated in the loeal media. 
Someone claiming to "represent" Bishop D'Arcy appeared immediately before the panel began and asked to be added to the panel. The decision not to include this person about whom we knew nothing, who appeared from out of nowhere at such a late date, does not eonstitute withdrawing our invitation at the last minute. Ifthis person was indeed his representative, why did she appear at the last minute? Given that response to our invitation, his comment, "Who was constricting ac,ademic freedom that time?'' is especially baffling: IfBishop D'Arcy would like to participate in any future panel di<>eussions we will, of course, welcome him warmly because such invitations are extended in good faith, in hopes ofmaking for the most pro­ductive exchange ofideas. We hope that in the future, ifhe is indeed eager to take part part in such panels, that he might make his intentions known to us in advance of the event so we can plan aceordingly. 

Jim Collins 
professor 
Film, Television and Theaae 
April27 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Monday, May 1, 2006 
page 10 

Jack Palance and the Big Bucking Chicken 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Scene Writer 

During sophomore year, I was intro­duced to the eoncept of the supertext­the ovoran:hing combination of amaz­ing, entertaining programming and the clever commercials that go along with it. The power of the commercial, as I earne to find out, was nigh gargantu­an. 
Let me give you an example of how eommereials insinu­ate themselves into our malleable sub­conseious. Imagine yourself on your favoritn La-Z-Boy easy chair, a cold beverage in one hand, a Cheetos bag in the other. You are raptly watehing Notre Dame destroy whichever team it happens to be playing on the gridiron. 
They cut to a commercial break and that hilarious Pepto-Bismol commercial enters the screen -you know, the one with the funny jingle. You never thought that the digestive tract of the human body could be summed up so toe-tap­pingly well. 
All of the sudden, the bowels begin to move and the depths begin to rumble. Could it be the beverage? I thought I checked the born-on-date. Could it be the Cheetos? You are lactose intolerant. Does the cheese on Cheetos count as lactose? What are you going to do? You race to the bathroom without an hour to spare. You throw open the door ... and stop. Why am I stressing out? I could take some Pepto-Bismol. 

The commercial has done its job and whoever makes that bottle of pink gold has you $5 in their pocket. This, dear reader, is the power that those fiendish 30-second spots of marketing have. 
Another popular commercial that I am sure you are all aware of is the Burger King ballad, "Big Bucking Chicken." In all my days I have never witnessed a more moving and touching commercial. The look of the cowboy as he watches the Big Bucking Chicken buck is price­less. 
After seeing a giij.nt chicken run around a holding pen with a cowboy on its back, who would not want to head right to the Burger King and order a sandwich with a big and bucking piece of chieken? 
However, as clever and conniving as some commercials can be, there are others that can be spotted from a mile away-the Mach 3 razor commercials. These try so hard to make the banal act of shaving seem to be the end all and be all of one's relationship with your signif­icant other. 
While it is very nice to be a well­groomed person, is it really necessary to show me a computerized grid of my jaw line to display the cooling factor of your shave gel? And who makes those dia­grams of the hair being cut by the 

Clockwise from left, photo courtesy of bon-food.com, allproducts.com. movieactors.com, pepto-bismol.com Commercial advertising Impacts viewers In many ways. Companies like Burger King, Pepto-Bismol and and Gillette use various strategies to reach consumers. 
razor? The special effects look like an eighth grader designed them and tell me nothing about the shaving product. 
So you can make bad computer graph­ics, but you had to get rid of Jack Palance. Remember when he was sell­ing after-shave? Those were some fine and upright commercials. When you hear a man with the sagaciously raspy voice and those chiseled features that Mr. Palance possesses, who would not want to buy his product? Scratch the bad graphics and give me Palance. 
Commercials have been with us since the creation of network television. In their endless quest to get us to buy stuff, they go from the funny to the sad to the incomprehensible. Television commer­cials can seem as though they advertise nothing, which can make them much more tricky than they should be. As long as we as viewers remember to watch out for those feral bucking chickens and attempt to get Jack Palance back on the air, we should all be fine. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroe 1 @nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column 
MOVIE REVIEW 


'Silent Hill' offers eerie, atmospheric experience 
chise, with a very heavy emphasis on 
By MARK BEMENDERFER plot from the first effort in the series. 

Assistant Scene Ediwr 

It centers on Rose (Radha Mitchell), a mother in search of her daughter 
Movies derived from video games Sharon (Jodelle Ferland). The young have a long and sordid history. Sharon walks in her sleep and experi­"Double Dragon," "Super Mario Bros." ences nightmares of a place called and the more recent "Doom" are Silent HilL Rose decides that instead of examples of simple video game plots subjecting her daughter to clinical that were completely butchered by study, she will take her to the town in Hollywood. The her nightmares. overall track Her journey to record of such Silent Hill the town of Silent experiments 
Hill is hampered indicates failure. by husband Chris 
E n t e r (Sean Bean) and Christophe Gans' a motorcycle cop
Director: Christophe Cans
"Silent Hill." named Cybil
Writers: Roger Avary 
While the previ­(Laurie Holden).
Starring: Radha Mitchell, Sean Bean, Laurie 
ously mentioned Rose eventually
Holden, Jodelle Ferland 
games featured makes it to the plots that could town with be condensed to a single, simplistic Sharon, but their victory is short-lived. paragraph, the "Silent Hill" universe Rose crashes her car while trying to features a vast library of mythology, avoid a spectral girl. She awakens to characters and events that would be find that she has lost Sharon and that more suited to a senior thesis. she is alone in the eerie, perpetually Freudian themes, inner snowing town of Silent ous. The games have always exhibited pants. Director Gans went to incredi­demons and a reliance on Hill. a surreal atmosphere, with the town ble lengths to make sure that every­
Freudian themes,
heavily symbolic imagery It doesn't take long for alternating between a light and dark thing looked perfect, going so far as to proliferate in the quiet inner demons and Rose to realize that the universe. The light universe has a per­renting an entire town to redecorate town of Silent HilL a reliance on snow is really ash and petual fog, suitable for hiding mon­for the film. It captures the look and This could be why "Silent that the town harbors a sters. The dark Silent Hill is punctuat­feel of the games perfectly, and will be
heavily symbolic 
Hill" succeeds where the dark secret. While in ed by barbed wire, chain link fences a treat to see for first-timers or veter­other video-game movies imagery proliferate pursuit of her daughter, and rusted iron gratings, usually cov­an Silent Hill explorers. have failed. It already had in the quiet town of she is led underground ered with gore. The only complaint is that the audi­a wealth of creative materi­for an unknown reason. That simple explanation describes ence doesn't see enough of it. A little
Silent Hill.
al to draw from and simply While descending the the setting, but doesn't nearly do jus­more action would have served per­needed to be transported to stairs, a mysterious tice to the actual experience of seeing fectly to spice up the movie's more the big-screen without taking an siren goes off, and all light is extin­the dark Silent Hill. The main draw for than two-hour running time. excess of creative liberty. guished in the town. the movie is undeniably the mise-en­
The story is an amalgamation of the For fans of the "Silent Hill" fran­scene -the scenery and settings of Contact Mark Bemenderfer at entire "Silent Hill" video game fran-chise. what happens next is fairly obvi-Silent Hill -plus its macabre occu-mbemende@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Monday, May 1, 2006 
page 11 
SHOW REVIEW 
Audiences 'Witness' stunning, emotional opera 


By NICOLE ZOOK Scene Critic 
Audience members in the O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's this weekend were "witness" to a visually, musically and emotionally stunning world premiere opera of the same name. 
Composed and conducted by Saint Mary's music professor Zae Munn, "Witness" tells the story of the Ku Klux Klan's infiltration into a tiny Vermont town in 1924 through the eyes of several char­acters, including Esther (Mallory O'Brien), a 10-year-old Jewish girl, Leanora (Minnita Daniel-Cox), a young black woman, and Johnny Reeves (Brian Manternach), a KKK preacher. 
The opera, adapted from a young adult novel by Karen Hesse, spotlights individual characters and their feelings toward the group while also showing how the town itself faces radical changes through the characters' choices. 
Munn said the work is relevant to today's society because it connects events and feel­ings of the past to the current political cli­mate in America. 
"The Klan draws on the energy and sym­bols of the church and patriotism to increase its stranglehold on the communi­ty, business people look to their bottom line to decide their political alliances, the media is reluctant to move beyond so­called 'balanced' reporting and take a righteous, ethically justifiable stand," Munn said. "The community's fear of dif­ference, embodied in the Jewish and black characters [Esther and Leanora], [also] connects to today's concerns with immi­gration." 
The orchestra, set, lighting design and even the actors themselves carried out Muon's lofty ideas and connections with extremely powerful imagery. Munn's dra­matic orchestration, tightly and beautifully performed by a seven-piece orchestra, set the tone of the opera from even the dark opening notes. 
The sparse, wooden two-level set, designed by Terry Jachimiak II, set the mood by allowing key characters and moments to be elevated on stairs and a platform above the main stage. The set's rustic, small-town minimalist look helped put the audience focus on the story and characters. 
Making the opera's images particularly powerful was the use of lighting, designed entirely by Saint Mary's junior Sarah Mikrut. Jachimiak said Mikrut is the first student in years qualified to design a mainstage production at the College -a feat she not only accomplished but also excelled at. 
For example, in one scene the townspeo­ple stood above a darkened stage, watch­ing Esther stand on the town's railroad tracks with her arms spread wide like a cross as a train made visible by a widening light approached her. The audience was so stunned by the violent image that when the lights went out and the orchestra's train whistle stopped blowing, they did not clap and waited for the lights.to come back up on Esther -who was still alive -and Leanora, who saved her, to breathe a col­lective sigh of relief. 
Mikrut's extremely effective use of light­ing was also especially prominent in one sickeningly beautiful scene where the Klan starts a bonfire and raises a giant cross in the dark. The shadowy figures of the group with their torches created an extremely tense mood when contrasted with the spotlighted figure of young, black Leanora, who described seeing the Klan and the burning cross on the hill with the scene taking place behind her. 
At the end of the song, Klan members donned their robes and pointed hoods onstage, giving the audience both a feeling of immediate repulsion and a sense that the townspeople were being transformed by the racist group. 
"I really like the use of the silhouettes to show that this isn't a specific person," Mikrut said. "This could be anyone." 
The entire opera gave that impression these characters were everyday people who were slowly being influenced by the message of the Klan. An early song in which churchgoers sang about how "it is up to us, neighbors" to keep their daugh­ters well-behaved could have been any 1920s revival, were it not interspersed with an argument between Viola (Lindsey Anderson) and Harvey Pettibone (Carlton Higginbotham). 
Harvey tries to convince his wife that "the Klan does good" and "they take care of their women and liquor can't tear up a family with them around -we should join them." It was obvious that Reeves, the preacher, was convinced that he was doing the right thing and that Harvey wasn't a racist. He was simply a businessman who felt it made sense to join the group. 
It was not until near the end of the opera that the townspeople begin to get the idea that something is wrong with the Klan. The group slowly begins to exert serious power by forcing Leanora's schoolmate Merlin (Douglas Williamson) to poison her well water, and the preacher decides to shoot Esther's Jewish father to redeem himself for being caught with a young girl. 
Eventually, the members of the commu­nity begin to realize that they care for one another regardless of race. The town newspaper editor Ramona (Charlotte Orzel) leads the citizens in a song of under­standing that persecution has been "giving the power of life and death to a secret organization," and that "to have our citi­zens judged by a hidden jury" is "not American." 
The vocal performances-both individ­ually and by the chorus -made the rela­tionships and feelings of community shine through, connecting the audience to the story and making it personal when they dared the audience to "come stand with us in the light" with the last few lines of the opera. 
Especially touching were O'Brien and Daniel-Cox as the persecuted youngsters and Erin Anhut as Sara Chickering, an older resident who takes them under her wing. O'Brien gave an extremely strong performance, with clear vocals and a good portrayal of youthful idealism. She easily surpassed the difficult challenge of playing a believable child without sounding like one. 
Daniel-Cox's powerful voice cut through the air and the tension of certain scenes like a knife, and her facial expressions clearly showed a tortured soul looking for acceptance and coming to terms with her own feelings of anger toward the white majority. 
Anhut brought the two together for beautifully blended performances of the three women while also telling a familiar story of conflicting feelings. While it seemed she was slightly uncomfortable with their differences -as statements such as "I've never had a colored girl in my kitchen before" revealed -she also used her strong vocals to make it clear that she hated everything the Klan stood for. 
Daniel-Cox said she felt this story of racism and relationships was important to tell and was happy to travel from her job at the University of Michigan to perform at Saint Mary's. 
"Leanora made a lot of sense to me," she said. "I think [this story] needs to be said, and I think human tendency is to forget, and to whitewash or to minimize the strug­gle that this country went through. We have to look at the mistakes of the past and remember them so they never happen again." 
Muon's opera did just that by reminding its audience that each person can make a difference by examining himself and his surroundings, while also providing a night of beautiful music and entertainment with a message that packed a punch. 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 


-
page 12 Monday, May 1, 2006
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Notre Datne adds seven cotnpetitors to Big East finals 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 

With the Big East meet loom­ing next week, Notre Dame competed in two meets this weekend, garnering seven more Big East bids and two more Mideast Hegional qualifying marks. 
At the Drake Helays in Des Moines, Iowa, the men's 4-by­1,600-meter relay team, com­prised of sophomore Jake Watson, snnior Vinny Ambrico, junior Todd Ptacek and junior Kurt Benninger captured victory with a time of 16:28.26, edging out second-place Illinois by less than three seconds. 
It is the fourth time in school history that Notre Dame has won in this event. 
"It was nice to go and win there. It was nice to run in front of 12,000 people," Benninger said. "We got to run and win a relay that we don't get to run in other meets like the Big East." 
Also competing at Drake was the 4-by-800-meter relay team of junior anchor Thomas Chamney and sophomores Brett Adams, Adam Currie and John Cavanaugh, which placed ninth. In the hammer-throw, Kyle Annen tossed a conference-best 190 feet and three inches. 
At the Hillsdale Gina Relays in Hillsdale, Mich., Notre Dame nabbed two spots in the Mideast Regional meet, giving the team 24 for the season. 
Senior Molly Huddle earned a bid by winning the 1,500-meter run. Notre Dame's other Mideast Qualifier was freshman Blair Majcina, who placed second in the high jump with a personal best of 6 feet, 10.75 inches. 

Next week the Irish will com­pete in the Big East champi­onship meet in Storrs, Conn. This meet is the culmination of the team track season for the Irish, with most of the season spent trying to qualify for the meet in certain events. 
With two team victories already this school year, the women have a realistic chance of accomplishing the triple­crown by winning the indoor, 
outdoor and cross-country por­tions of the meet. 
"Preparation is not really all the different," Benninger said. "You try to get all the stuff you have to do out of the way so you can focus for it. ... I hope every­body docs the same." 
Benninger will compf1te in the 1,500-meter and the five-kilo­meter run at the meet. . ::rll tr~ to get some sleep for It, he Said. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
MLB 

Kazmir strikes out 10 to lift Rays past Boston 
Saturday. didn't think it was going to be good at bats," Lee said. Gustavo Chacin. allowing one
Brewers shell Cubs; 
"We've got to make it inter­that close to a home run. At run and seven hits in six Yankees upend Jays esting," Kazmir said with a that point I was a little anx­Yankees 4, Blue Jays 1 innings for his sixth solid start 
smilo. "It was a great win for us ious." The riled-up New York in six outings this year. 
to pull out the serios after a liP then retired pinch-hitter Yankees spent all afternoon Featuring what Damon calls 
Associated Press tough loss likP that." .John Mabry on a game-ending barking at the plate umpire, his "Bugs Bunny changeup." 
ST. I'ETEHSBLIBC;, Fla. -Schilling (4-l) was looking to groundout. and an angry Jon Torre chargPd thn right-hander struck out Scott Kazmir nearly had his bm~ome thP third Boston pitcher Making his 63rd major league out of the dugout to argu1~ a seven and walked two. lie also strong outing wastl'd by Tampa -joining Pedro Martinez start. Capuano (4-2) struek out rare njnction. beat the Blun Jays 3-1 on April Bay's struggling bullpen. (2000) and Babe Huth ( 1917) -six and walked none. He retired Looks as though the Bronx 19 in Toronto. 
Kazmir struck out 10 in snvnn to win five games in April. He 11 straight until Michael Bombers arc ready for their innings to lwlp th11 Devil Hays allowed three runs, six hits. one Barn~tt's leadoff single in the first trip to Boston. Padres 6, Dodgers 5 (10) heat Curt Schilling and the walk and struck out nine in six eighth. Chicago did not advance Jason Giambi hit a two-run Mark Bellhorn hit an HBI sin­Boston Hnd Sox 5-4 on Sunday. innings. Thn right-hander start­a runner past second base. horner and Mike Mussina shut gle in the lOth inning and the 
"It was bnautil'ul." Tampa Bay ed the 2001 season with Capuano's previous longest down the Toronto Blue Jays San Diego Padrns beat the Los manager Jon Maddon said. Arizona by winning his first live outings were 8 1-3 innings in again, leading New York to a Angnles Dodgers Sunday to "None of it surprises me. I just dedsions. back-to-hack starts last year. at victory Sunday. Andy Phillips snap a five-game losing streak. love his dnmnanor right now on The Hed Sox have lost seven Washington on May 18 and also homered for the Yankees, San Diego scored live runs in the mound." of 10 heading into a two-game against Colorado five days later. who took two of three in the the ninth inning to tie it. Brian 
Kazmir (3-2) gave up two series against the New York "l-Ie was changing speeds series and finished 6-3 on their Giles and Mike Piazza drew runs and five hits with onn Yankees that starts Monday at with his fastball," Walker said. first long hornestand of the sea­one-out walks against Tim walk. beating Boston for the Fenway Park. Boston has "lie's crafty, meaning that he son. llarnulack (0-2) in the 10th second time this season. lie is dropped three consecutive throws 89, 90 (mph), but also The normally even-tempered before Bellhorn grounded a sin­4-1 with a 2.45 EHA overall series for thB first time since he also throws 86, 87, so that Torre wasn't around for the end gle down the left-field line to against the Heel Sox. .June 2004. 86, 87 ball is darting down . -he and Toronto skipper John drive in Giles. 
Toby Ilall and Carl Crawford lie's got an unusual kind of Gibbons were both ejected for Bellhorn also had a key hit in hit two-run homers for Tampa Brewers 9, Cubs 0 release point -he gets on you arguing balls and strikes with San Diego's ninth-inning rally. Bay. Chad Orvella worked the Chris Capuano tried not to quicker than you are used to. I umpire Adam Dowdy. lie drove in the first run with a eighth and allowed back-to­envision his first major league took some funky swings at "He shows emotion in big sit­single against Dodgers eloser 
h. ..

hack homers to Mike Lowell complete game. lffi. uations," Giambi said. "It defi­Danys Baez, who entered the and Wily Mo Pena in the ninth "I was just hoping to make it Carlos Lee hit his 10th horner nitely, I think, gave us a lift." game with the bases loaded and bnforo hn was pulled for Tyler through five with the big lead to set a Brewers' April record. Johnny Damon had three hits none out. Khalil Greene and Walker, who walked pinch-hit­we had," he said. "I tried not to Bill Hall singled, tripled and for the second day in a row as pinch-hitter Eric Young both ter Trot Nixon. think about it too much, but I homered to drive in three runs he prepares for his much-antic­walked to cut the lead to 5-3. 
Shawn Camp relieved Walker couldn't help it." for Milwaukee, which has won ipated return to Fenway Park. Baez then allowed sacrifice and got the last two outs for his Capuano wound up pitching a five of six. He and the Yankees lead the AL flies to Josh Barfield and Geofl' third save in three chances. five-hitter for his first career Taking advantage of a strong East by percentage points over Blum. llarnulack replaced Baez Mark Lorntta grounded out complete game and shutout, wind blowing out to left, Lee Boston, where they begin a and struck out pinch-hitter with runners on second and leading the Milwaukee Brewers connected in the second inning two-game series Monday night. Doug Mirabelli to end the ninth. third to end the game. over the Chicago Cubs Sunday. ofT Carlos Zambrano. Rob Deer "It feels like my bat speed, Scott Linebrink (2-2) pitched 
"I still have not exhaled," lie had an anxious moment (1987) and Geoff Jenkins (2000 I'm quick. It feels like my bal­a scoreless lOth for the Padres. Maddon said. with two outs in the ninth, and 2001) both hit nine April ance is there," Damon said. Dodger starter Derek Lowe 
The Devil Hays took two of when Todd Walker singled off homers for the Brewers. "So, hopefully, I can keep on tossed six shutout innings, three from Boston despite the the center-field wall. "It seems like every time I belting out hits and, hopefully, allowing just two hits and only bullpen allowing four runs in ''I'm thinking just one more," face him, I see the ball pretty the guys keep driving me in." one runner to reach second the ninth inning of a 9-6 loss he said. "Then he hit that ball. I good against him and I have_ Mussina (4-1) outpitched base. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 r·m-at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
SUMMER WORK $15.50 base· Office Space For Lease 1733 SF at 3-6 BDRM HOMES.$195/PER appt FT/PT schedules,customer $1000 Per Month NNN. Walking PERSON MO. WALK TO ND.06/07 
WANTED  sales/service,no experience neces- FoR RENT  Distance to NO. Contact Grubb &  OR SUMMER.574-329-0308  PERSONAL  
sary, all ages 17 & older, conditions  Ellis/Cressy & Everett,  
Highly motivated, ethical/socially  apply_ Call Now, Start After Finals!  Area houses and apartments for  Tony Davey 574-271·4060.  2 BDRM HOME.$590 M0.272-6306  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
responsible, entrepreneurial. go- South Bend/Elkhart 574-273-3835  rent. Log onto  1bdrm apt 1 mi to NO.  not go it alone. If you or someone  
getters with desires to make a meaningful impact on transfonning  Indianapolis 317-253-2734 Fort Wayne 260-492-9159 Bloomington  MichianaRentals.com. Call 574­993-RENT (7368)  Large house for rent. 18285 Dunn Rd. Walk to class @ NO_ 4 huge  Laundry,security,quiet historic neighborhood. $600/mo_ Call 283­ you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L.  
lhe international business world  812·330·1104 Evansville 812-477­ bedrooms, 3 full baths, Huge  0325.  Gude. CSC at 631-7819. For more  
while making a large amount of  2702 Lafayette 765-449-41 00  HISTORIC HOME-CHAPIN PK.  fenced yard.  infonnation, see our bi-weekly ad in  
$$$$.  2800 s/f+base,LR w/fp,4  Call317-431·9508  2 Houses for rent. 3 bdrm house at  THE OBSERVER.  
-­ I am an alum based in Jackson Hole and am looking for students for part time, full time, or summer employment to work for commis­sian_ Can work from home.  IT Jobs starting $45K Students with Bachelors or Masters degree. Candidates on F1 and OPT are welcome. Training & Accommodation. We also sponsor  bdrms,study + finished 3rd fl. Full appliances + WID, 3 porches_ 413 w_ NAVARRE/$1250+util. 574-2322167 or 574-2613184 www.xog.com/property/413WestNa  4 BR,1.5 BA, fenced back yard, <2 mi. to NO. 428 Preston. $795/mo. 269·663·2299.  $900. 4 bdrm at $1200. 1 mile from NO_ Call277-1875_ 6 bdrm/2 bth house. Partial turn. $1000/mo + util. Call Pat 574·784· 3377 11 a.m.-3:30 p.m.  Pay your respects to lhe Don of North Quad. Kiss the ring. Buy Nick Trapp's body at 4-1579  
www.effectiveexecutivecoaching.co m  CPT. H1, and Green Card. ACCEN­TUATE 201-300-2880.  varre.html Retail/Office Space For Lease 1800  4 bdrm,2.5 baths house_ Call Judy 574-298-6217.  TICKETS  Rob Carroll is NOT the Don of South Quad. Don't let him fool you  
Summer Job. Local family seeking nanny for 1 yr.  FoR SALE  SF at $10 PSF NNN on SA 23 east of Ironwood, Near NO_ Contact  Room available anytime but 1st renter gets 1st month free.  TOP $$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX_  Congratulations to MoSto and Goomba on their new, much richer  
old boy.  Grubb & Ellis/Cressy & Everett.  $350/mo. Beautiful & very clean  574-232-0964.  lives  
Hours are flexible. approx_ 20 hrs/wk. References required.  97 Honda wagon. EX Accord. 105.000 miles. 1-owner,red,asking $4800. Car on campus. 269·445­ Noah Davey 574-271-4060 Large 2br apt. near NO_ Starting at  home. Close to NO. Parking avail­able. Call Bill 574-246-0872 or cell 574­ I WOULD LIKE TO BUY YOUR FOOTBALL SEASON TIX. PLEASE  Ken Fowler loves his hugs. I don't know what that means but it scares  
574-271-0747_  1437 or 631-5962.  $595. Call 277-9372.  386-7272.  CALL277-1659.  me. A lot.  

------------------------~-------­


OUND THE NATION 


Monday, May 1, 2006 
Major League Baseball American League East 
team record perc. last 10  GB  
New York 13-10 .565 7·3  
Boston 14·11 .560 3·7  
Toronto 12-11 .522 5·5  1  
Baltimore 13-13 .500 4·6  1.5  
Tampa Bay 11-14 .440 4-6  3.0  
American League Central  
team record perc. last 10  GB  
Chicago 17·7 .708 8-2  
Detroit 16·9 .640 8-2  1.5  
Cleveland 13·11 .542 4-6  4  
Minnesota 9-15 .375 2-8  8  
Kansas City -5-17 .227 3-7  11  
American League West  
team record perc. last 10  GB  
Oakland 12·12 .500 5·5  
Texas 12-12 .500 6-4  
Los Angeles 12-13 .480 5·5  0.5  
Seattle 11·15 .423 4-6  2  
National League East  
team record perc. last 10  GB  
New York 16-8 .667 6·4  
Atlanta 10-14 .417 4·6  6  
Philadelphia 10-14 .417 4·6  6  
Washington 8·17 .320 3·7  8.5  
Florida 6-16 .273 3"7  9  
National· League Central  
team record perc. last10  GB  
Cincinnati 17-8 .680 8·2  
St. Louis 17-8 .680 8-2  
Houston 16·8 .667 6-4  0.5  
Chicago 13·10 .565 5-5  3;0  
Milwaukee 14·11 .560 6·4  3.0  
Pittsburgh 7-19 .269 2·8  10.5  
National League West  
team record perc. last 10  GB  
Colorado 15·10 .600 7-3  
San Francisco 13·11 .542 5·5  1.5  
Arizona 12·13 .480 5-5  3.0  
Los Angeles 12·13 .480 5·5  3.0  
San Diego 9-15 .375 3~7  5;5  

Women's Softball USA Today/NFCA Top 25 
team record previous 
1 UCLA 36-4 1 2 Texas 45·5 2 3 Arizona 34-8 3 4 Tennessee 47-6 4 5 Alabama 40-7 5 6 Stanford 33-10 6 7 Cal 38-8 7 8 Oregon Stale 33-7 9 9 Georgia 46-11 8 10 Arizona State 41-7 10 11 LSU 44-7 n 12 Michigan 31-12 12 13 Louisiana-Lafayette 39·8 13 14 Northwestern 33-10 16 15 Texas A&M 32-13 15 16 Washington 29-15 14 17 Nebraska 35·8 17 18 Baylor 33-17 19 19 Auburn 31-13 18 20 North Carolina 46-13 20 21 Louisville 30·8 21 22 Fresno State 31-13 23 23 Oklahoma 29-18·1 22 24 Florida 36-19 24 25 Southern Illinois 33·9 25 
around the dial 
NBA 

Dallas at Memphis, 8 p.m., TNT Denver at LA Clippers, 1 0:30 p.m., TNT 
MLB 

NY Yankees at Boston, 7:05 p.m., ESPN 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S wrru:: SERVICES page 13 
NBA PLAYOFFS 

Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES ~ The Los Angeles Lakers needed two last-gasp shots from Kobe Bryant to beat the Phoenix Suns. 
And two uncharacteristic mistakes from Phoenix star Steve Nash. 
Bryant made a looping runner with seven-tenths of a second left in the fourth quarter to force overtime, and a 17-footer as time expired to lift the Lakers to an improbable 99-98 victo­ry over the Suns and a 3-1 lead in the first-round Western Conference playoff series. 
"It was the most fun shot I've ever hit, just because it's us, enjoying this as a unit," Bryant said regarding the latest in a long line of buzzer-beaters during his 1 0-year career. 
Bryant and Shaquille O'Neal led the Lakers to three championships, from 2000-02, but with O'Neal gone, last year's team failed to make the playoffs. 
Many thought it would be the same story this season. But now, the Lakers are one win away from advancing to the second round. 
"I have played a lot of playoff basketball and I have never had a game quite like this, with our backs against the wall, seemingly out of it, and us just battling back and get­ting this 'W,"' Bryant said. "We matured about 10 to 15 years today. We did a lot of growing up in this game." 
The Lakers, who have won the last three games, can win the best-of-seven series Tuesday night in Phoenix. A sixth game, if necessary, would be Thursday night at Staples Center. 

The Suns appeared to have the game won late in the fourth quarter and again in overtime, but the Lakers took advantage of Nash's mistakes. 
Nash made a 3-pointer with 50 seconds left in over­time to give the Suns a 98­95 lead. Bryant's layup with 
11.7 seconds remaining 
drew the Lakers within one point, and Luke Walton tied Nash up with 6.1 seconds to play. 
Walton won the tip, with Bryant chasing the ball down near the scorer's table and then dribbling to the right corner of the key, where his ninth field goal in 14 tries swished through cleanly. 
"It felt routine to me," Bryant said. 
The Lakers then mobbed their superstar, who has become more of a facilitator than a scorer during this series, with his output drop­ping more than a dozen points from his 35.4-point average during the regular season. 

IN BRIEF 
USC to probe Leinart and 
Jarrett'sliving arran$!ement 
LOS ANGELES -USC officials are investigating whether an upscale apartment that wide receiver Dwayne Jarrett shared with former teammate Matt Leinart violated NCAA rules, according to a published report Sunday. 
Leinart's father, Bob, put the duo on the lease at the secured apart­ment complex downtown after Leinart moved out of his former resi­dence near campus because he was constantly hounded by fans. 
Leinart -the Heisman Trophy­winning quarterback picked 1Oth by the Arizona Cardinals in Saturday's NFL draft ~ and Jarrett each paid $650 a month for the apartment that cost $3,866 a month, according to the Los Angeles Times. Leinart's father paid the difference and said he's been told Jarrett might have to repay him about $10,000, the news­paper reported. 
Titans refute claims of 
McNair trade 

NASHVILLE -Steve McNair's tenure with the Tennessee Titans could be over within the next 24 hours, accord­ing to his agent. Team officials don't agree, even though they gave permis­sion for McNair's agent to talk with the Baltimore Ravens. 
Agent Bus Cook said Sunday the team was considering releasing McNair or trading him to the Ravens, with some­thing possibly worked out by Monday. 
General manager Floyd Reese said a few hours later the Ravens indeed had discussed a trade with Tennessee. But the Ravens' offer was insufficient, and Reese said the talks died right there. 
"Steve's a Tennessee Titan. That has not changed," Ravens general manager Ozzie Newsome said. 
Asked about McNair being released within hours, the Titans general man­ager had a short answer. 
"That's not going to happen, no," Reese said. 
Nadal ties Borg's record for 
consecutive clay victories 
BARCELONA, Spain ~ Defending champion Rafael Nadal defeated Tommy Robredo 6-4, 6-4, 6-0 Sunday to win the Open Seat Godo title, topping Bjorn Borg's mark with his 47th straight victory on clay. 
Nadal, who won his 12th consecutive final, earned praise from the 11-time Grand Slam champion. 
"I congratulate Nadal," Borg said in a statement. "He's fun to watch and I hope he wins Wimbledon." 
Guillermo Vilas holds the Open-era record with 53 straight wins. Nadal deflected comparisons to Borg, a five­time Wimbledon winner, whom he called the greatest player of all time. 
"It's nice that he thinks I'm good to watch," Nadal said. "I thank Borg for his kind words." 
Nadal's next goal is to win the upcom­ing clay-court tournament in Rome, duplicating his three-tournament streak of last year. 
page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, May 1, 2006 
SMC TENNIS SMC SOFTBALL 
SMC places fifth at MIAA 
and Ashley Leary 6-3, 5-7. 6-McDavitt defeated Tri-State's
Team finished just 38 
1. Amanda Steiner 6-3, 6-1. points behind Albion Palombo lost 6-1, 7-5 to The team's No. 3 singles Kalamazoo's Megan Fink in player, Mulcahy, defeated
in competitive field the first round of No. 1 sin­Olivet's Mallory Bailey 4-6, 6­gles. Fink defeated Amy 2, 6-1 before succumbing to Zeilstra of Calvin for third Hope's Ashley Leary 6-0, 6-1. By JOE QUINN place. Saint Mary's saw its No. 5 Sports Writer "I was disappointed in how player, Tara O'Brien, advance I played personally, but I to the semifinals before bow­
Saint Mary's wanted to thought Grace and I played ing out to Alyssa Logan of prove it was better than its 5-very well," she said. Calvin in two sets. 3 conference record. While her While the 
But the team's fifth-place play on the top five were finish over the weekend in court was all very
"It's always an honor to
the MIA/\ Tournament not up to close, demonstrated just how hard her own be recognized bu the other Palombo it is to play in the MIAA. The standards, coaches. Especially being said one Belles finished 38 points the senior team was
the number-one singles 
behind conference champion was named still able to 
Albion. All-MIAA player [on a team], it's stand out "I think [the team's results) Second tough to stand out.. " above the show how incredibly competi­Team. rest. tive [the MIAA] is," Kristin " I t ' s "Albion 
Kristen Palombo 

Palombo said. "The top five always a deserved to [teams) were all so close -it great honor Irish senior win the was just such a tough tourna­b e i n g champi­ment." named to onship," she 
Belles Kelly McDavitt and the all-league team," said said. Calie Mulcahy highlighted the Palombo, who was an All­"They are a very good weekend finishing second in MIAA first-team the past two team. But at the same time, doubles play, while Saint years. "It's always an honor they always carry themselves Mary's No. 6 singles player to be recognized by the other with such class. I think all of Melissa Dinger finished third coaches. Especially being the the teams in the top five gave to secure the team's only top­number-one singles player them a run for their money, three finish in singles play. !for a team], it's tough to but they were the best team 
Besides McDavitt and stand out." this weekend -and this Mulcahy, Palombo and Grace As the Belles No. 2 player, year." Gordon secured a fourth McDavitt was one of three plaen finish in No. 2 doubles, players to advance to the Contact Joe Quinn at beating Hope's Erin Bradley semifinals before losing. jquinn6@nd.edu 
ST~JDV DATES AND TllVIES: IVIay 4., 5., 6: 7am t:o 3:00am lVIidnight: Snacks! IVIay 7-1 I: 7am t:o 3:00am Finals VVeek: lVIay 8-1 1 Roo~~PZS a••aiLabLe e.x:cepr ..vhen scheduLed by 
rhe Regi....rrur•.,. ~ifflce. 
..~·ee Building ,_•;upporl Personnel ifyou have specific needs.-Roo~n 103~ 104_ 

Coleman-IVIorse: I '"t Floor l~ounJ?;e 7:00am-4am daily. 2 ..... floor 7am-3am Same dat:es as list:ed above. 
AI"Ways! Free Snacks! 
~ 

<:>"Shaughnessy STUDY DATES AND TllVIES: IVIay 4., 5., 6: 8:00am t:o 1:OOam IVIay 7: I :OOpm t:o 1:OOam Finals VVeek: lVJay 8-I 1 Room....· avaiLabLe 5:00pm-3:00am e;xcepr 
•vhen ...·cheduled b.J' lfhe Regislfrar • . .., office. 
J..t.ooms: 106., 107., 114, 115, 116., 117., 118., 204., 206, 207.. 208., 209. 
<~' Good Luck '\>Vit:h Finals <~ 
·'f.n.~tt.::·iaL rh~~nk...,· Co l#u.:~ine.-..1\· ~.>1.1erarion.,:, c..:·a,.,.•l·n·•~· Afi,•i.y;lr_J.• cz,•€L rhe ..~""rudenr U11ion .l:#oczrc/. 


Recycle the Observer. 


Belles svveep Hornets in road doubleheader 
· Saint Mary's struck back with
Grall, Smid lead team 
three runs in the fourth to go to winningest season up 8-4. 
Audrey Gajor and Sarah
in school history Miesle drove in a run each, and Davison scored off an error in the inning.
By DEIRDRE KRASULA "We hit in clutch situations,"
Sporrs Writer 
Sullivan said. "That really helped a lot." 
Saint Mary's captured two wins over Kalamazoo 10-9 and Saint Mary's 5, Kalamazoo 1 5-1 this weekend on the road Seven errors by Kalamazoo in its final MIAA series of the gave Saint Mary's new life as season -giving the team 27 the Belles won game two, 5-1. wins and trumping the previ­Saint Mary's jumped out to ous 25-win record set in 1985, an early lead, with catcher 
The weekend brought the Martha Smid and Gajor scor­Belles' record to 27-11 overall ing in the first. and 11-5 in conference action. Kalamazoo scored in the bot­
The 11 conference wins also tom of the first on an RBI sin­mark a school record, two gle by catcher Emily higher than the nine-win Schoolmaster. record set in 2004. The Belles capitalized off of 
The team will the Hornets' leave the regular errors again in season behind the top of the sec­
"We hit in clutch 
with hope of suc­ond when Smid
situations. That 
ceeding in MIAA and Davison both tournament play, really helped a scored off of Belles coach Erin Kalamazoo's mis­
lot." 

Sullivan said. takes. "We really want Gajor drove in 
Erin Sullivan 
to win that tour­an HBI to round nament [MIAA Belles coach the score out at tournament] and 5-1. advance to Freshman Regionals," Sullivan said. pitcher Kristin Amram turned "That has been our goal all in another strong performance season long." from the mound. Amram 
In game one, Saint Mary's allowed only three hits while withstood a furious Kalamazoo striking out 12. comeback to come away with a She is now ranked 31st in one-run lead. Division III with a 1.09 ERA 
Down 10-5 in the bottom of and is seventh in strikeouts the six, Kalamazoo made a with 166 strikeouts in 103 charge, scoring four runs on innings. three hits and two crucial Miesle and Ashley Fusaro led Saint Mary's errors. the Belles from the plate, each 
The Hornets were unable to posting a homerun in the 5-1 come all the way back, howev­victory. er, after Belles pitcher Bridget Grall shut them down in the Note: bottom of the seventh. +Smid was named MIAA 
The Belles built their lead conference player of the week. slowly, scoring in the first, sec­She batted 11-for-16 in four ond, fourth and sixth innings conference games, scored 10 and always answering when runs and drove in five HBis the Hornets scored. with a .813 slugging percent­
After Kalamazoo freshman age. Lauren Millar homered in the third, driving in three runs Contact Deirdre Krasula at and bringing the score to 5-4, dkrasula@nd.edu 

Multi Keyboardist I Singer I Composer with 1 0 original COs and DVD that kick ass; outrageous equipment and place to jam and record 24 hours is looking for friends. 
Motivation is music creation marketing and promotion. 
For promo DVD/CD and to schedule a Jam/Recording session contact David Monte Cristo. 
917 699 5703 dmc@ montecristorecords.com www.montecristorecords.com 
·-~. -----~. 

Monday, May 1, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
ND SOFTBALL 
Notre Dame splits with USF 
I.nuisville games rained out; Irish stay on top of Big East standings 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Wrirer 
NotrA Dame maintained a slim l11ad in the Big East standings after splitting a doublllhllad!lr with South Florida Saturday before having two games with Louisville rained out Sunday. 
Much like last week's double­header with Purdue, the Irish took Saturday's first game with a score of 7-4, then lost the. second 7-3. 
In game one, the offense began hot with five runs in the second. 
Junior outfielder Stephanie Brown hit a grand slam -her sixth home run of the year ­with one out in the inning. Right lielder Carissa Jaquish delivered an RBI double to score second base­
"Heather has
man Katie Laing, Her fellow pitch­left lielder Gessica really good er Brittney Bargar II ufnagle singled has been strug­
command on all
and designated gling in her last
her pitches right 
player Stephanie few starts, losing
,
Mola walked to now. her second load the bases straight in game before Brown two on Saturday.
Kris Ganeff 
delivered her blast The freshman 
Irish assistant coach
over the left field has given up at 
wall. 
"To get on the board first was important for us, and once Laing scored we were able to keep _i't rolling," Irish assistant coach Kris Ganeff said. 
But the Bulls quickly chipped into Notre Dame's cushion with four runs of their own in the next half inning. 
Two errors cost Notre Dame, at one with 4:28 left in the first period, Notre Dame rattled off four consecutive goals to take a 5-1 lead. Hubschmann scored two of the four, with Walsh assist­ing on the second. Matt Ryan and Matt Karweck also found the net for the Irish. 
"[Getting off to a good start] has been a struggle for us .so far this season," Corrigan said. "It was important because it allowed us to dictate the flow of the game. We didn't have to force it in the offensive end which pre­vented them from using their athletic guys in transition." 
After Notre Dame's strong start, goals by Ohio State's Jason Lutz and Kevin Buchanan cut the score to 5-3 at halftime. 
The third period saw a flurry of scoring. as the two teams com­bined to score seven goals. like the first half, the Irish were the stronger team to start, as sopho­more Michael Podgajny, Walsh and Hubschmann each scored to extend the lead to 8-3. 
Ohio State cut into the lead again. as goals by Lutz and Jason Bloom brought the score to 8-5 with 6:46 left in the third period. 
Walsh scored again to extend the Irish lead back to four, but a goal by Ohio State's Josh Wittenberg made the score 9-6 at the end of third period. 
The fourth period saw the Buckeyes cut the lead to two at 9-7, but Ohio State could never get closer than two goals, and the Irish held on to win by the score of10-8. 
~ontact Greg Arbogast a garbogas@nd.edu 


as the Irish surrendered two unearned runs. South Florida center fielder Samantha Ray, who was 4-for-4 with a run scored, knocked in the other two runs with a single to right. 
Irish right-hander Heather Booth (19-9) calmed down after that and was able to keep the Bulls from getting past second base for the remainder of the game. 
"Heather has a really good 
command on all her pitches right now," Ganeff said. "It makes it very hard for hitters to know what is coming next." 
Booth has now picked up a win in her last five appear­ances. 
The stretch 

includes a 9-1 victory over 
Purdue and a perfect game against Rutgers on April 23. 
least six runs in each of her last two games. 
The Bulls scored two in the second and then added four more in the bottom of the fourth against Bargar. 
USF clean-up hitter Tiffany Stewart hit a bases-clearing double and scored on third base­man Krista Holle's single to left 
The Development Phone Center gratefully acknowledges the following businesses which support our student caller·tncentives· Program: 
Notre Dame 
ANNUAL FUND 

Atria Salon 2 
Between the Buns 
Bob Evans Restaurant 
Bonnie Doon Ice Cream 
Bookmaker's Pub 
Bruno's Pizza 
Carrabba's Italian Grill 
The Carriage House Dining Room 
Casa Del Rio 
Chick-Fil-A 
CJ's Pub 
Coach USA -Indiana 
College Football Hall of Fame 
Cosimo & Susie's -A Bit of Italy 
Cragan's Irish Import Shop 
Doc Pierces Restaurant East Bank Emporium Fazoli's Italian Restaurant Francesco's Italian & American Restaurant Fun Tan, Inc. 
Funny Bone Comedy Club 
Garfield's Restaurant &Pub 
Golden Dragon 
Hi-Speed Auto Wash 
Honkers Family Restaurant 
Jersey Mike's Giant Subs 
two pitches later. 
Despite out-hitting the Bulls 11-9, Notre Dame was unable to punch any runs across until the sixth inning. Brown stayed hot, going 4-for-4, and Meagan Ruthrauff added two hits and a walk. 
The team had runners on base every inning expect for the sec­ond but could not find away to drive them in. 
"We got a lot of strikeouts and 

'To get on the board first was important for us, and once Laing scored we were able to keep it rolling., 
Kris Ganeff Irish assistant coach 
pop-ups with runners on base," Ganeff said. "That's not normal for us." 
Bulls pitcher Christi Ecks struck out eight Irish batters in the game ­nearly four times Notre Dame's average for the season. 
The loss was Notre Dame's second in the conference, matching South Florida's total. 
The Irish cling to the Big East lead because they have played two more games than the Bulls. But the team will be challenged once again this afternoon as they take on No. 18 Louisville, currently third in the Big East. 
The two games that were scheduled for Sunday afternoon were postponed a day due to the weather in Kentucky. 
With only five games left on the schedule, the games -start­ing at 1 p.m. -are crucial in determining how the top three seeds will shake out for the con­ference tournament at the Belleville Softball Complex in South Bend beginning May 11. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

K's Grill & Pub 
La Esperanza 
Lasalle Grill 
Lula's Cafe LLC 
Millennium Steakhouse 
NICTD (South Shore) 
Papa John's Pizza 
Parisi's Italian Ristorante 
Patricia Ann Flower Shop 
Potawatomi Zoological Society Prime Table Restaurant 
Quality Dining (Burger King/Chili's/Papa Vino's) 
Ritter's Frozen Custard 
Rocco's Restaurant 
Salon Artistry 
South Bend Chocolate Company 
South Bend Regional Museum of Art 
South Bend Symphony Orchestra 
Studebaker National Museum 
Ten Thousand Villages 
Tippecanoe Place Restaurant 
Wal-Mart · 
Wendy's Old Fashioned Hamburgers Wings Etc. 
Zolman Tire, Inc. 
osu 
continued from page 20 
season. This year, the two are making up for lost time. 
"[Brian] getting hurt threw our chemistry off a little bit at the beginning of the season," Walsh said. "As the season has gone on, our cheffiistry has gotten better each week. He's a great shooter, and I'm more of a passer. We read each other_well." 
The two seniors' play was the catalyst for Notre Dame's victory, which improves the team's record to 2-2 in the Greater Western Lacrosse League and 9­4 overall. 
The match-up was also the 25th time that Notre Dame and Ohio State have met. With the win, the Irish gained the series advantage by the slim margin of 13-12. 
Notre Dame also extracted a measure of revenge on the Buckeyes, who crushed Notre Dame's dreams of an NCAA berth in 2003 and 2004 with late-season victories both years. 
This time, it was the Irish who broke Ohio State's hearts, as Notre Dame ended the Buckeyes' chance to wiri a share of the GWLL championship. 
"We used the rivalry to play extra hard and defend our home field," Walsh said. "Every win is a good feeling, but it's always nice to beat a rjvallike Ohio State." 
Notre Dame used the extra emotion of the game to jump out to an early lead. After Ohio State's Craig Nolan tied the game 
AA MINI WAREHOUSE ft STORAGE 3 Convenient Locations for Your Storage Needs Call us TODAY! 
5510 Shaugn St 816 E McKinley Ave 5213 N Grape Rd 271-1105 259-0335 272-4434 
$10 OFFAT MCKINLEY FOR FIRST MONTH'S RENT AND FREE LOCK 
with purchase of Unit 
valid with student ID expires 515106 

DELUXi fooTBA.L PACI\AGB 
Notre Dame vs. USC Nov. 25th, 2006 
Onlv 200 Reservillions Available.1 
' 

•2 GAME TICKETS 
•2 
AIRLINE T!C~ETS 1AA1 O'HARE TO LAX 

•2 NICHTS HOTEL RESFRVATIOI\S 

•CROtL\ll) 
TRAVtL TOlVROIV\ COIISRL\1 


•CATERED RAllY THE fRIDAY NlGHT BEFORE THE GAME 
TotaI Package: 
$2,650 per reSt?rvation 
{Check mCashJ 
GO IRISH! 
-
-


~-----~~--------~--­
Monday, May 1, 2006
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
WOMEN'S CREW
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

Notre Dan1e vvins Big East title 
Irish squeak past 

Paid position during the school year. Great opportunity to work with a fantastic company. 
Thursday, May 4 

Please send resumes to Jwilson2®nd.edu 
12:00-1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal lunch at the Co·Mo. 
Everyone is welcome and conhdenliahty IS assured 
Lunch Will be served 
CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 

No. 12 Irish beat out

-Orange in thril.Ier 
nine conference teams 

Murphy scores game winner at last second; Foote adds five in win 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sporrs Writer 

As time expired at Moose Krause Stadium Saturday, junior Notre Dame attack Meghan Murphy received a pass from sophomorn I leather Ferguson oil' of a free possession and shot a frozen rope into the upper left corner of the goal to push the No. 7 Irish past No. B Syracuse in an 11-10 win. 
Notre Dame (11-3, 3-1 Big East) lost the ball by the Syracuse (9-5, 2­
2) goal with 30 
coaching staff of the year

as she helped keep 
"/ said to them in
seconds remain­
award.

the Irish close by
ing, but then stole the pre-game that 
The win puts Notre Dame in

adding live goals to 
it back 15 sec­
the NCAA South/Central

you never know the Notre Dame 
onds later. A foul 
regional, which will take

effort.
when your time 
with 2.3 seconds 
place in two weeks in Oak

Foote also added 
Ridge, Tennessee. 

to play set up will come" yet another Irish 
Ferguson's free 
"This is a very hungry

record to her credit 
possession, and 
group that just wants to be

Tracy Coyne as her three draw 
her quick pass 
successful," Stone said. "I

controls in the
Irish coach
gave Murphy the chance to win the 
game. 

"It was rnally lucky that I made the goal, because Syracuse has a rnally good goalie," Murphy said. "I wasn't thinking much when I shot it, but the shot worked itself out and went in." 
Ferguson had been dangerous all game on free possession chances, scoring on her three previous attempts. Murphy also stepped up orr the bench for Notre Dame, scoring the go­alwad goal and playing the role of hero for the afternoon. 
"I said to them in the pre-game that you never know when your time will come," Coyne said. "Meghan and !leather proved 
think it is on the forefront of 41 on the season ­game -giving her 
the minds of our team, and moved her past Alissa Moser for the highest single-season mark 
in Irish history. 
Foote recognized that her indi­vidual accomplishments were only a portion of a larger team elfort. 
. "Being the captain, I know I have to do what it takes to help the team win," Foote said. "But this is a team sport, and every­one has to contribute or else we won't succeed." 
Notre Dame finishes off its sea­son at Moose Krause field May 7 against Vanderbilt. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
Lunch and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
that really is what our team is 6:34.83, and Syracuse was aiming for this season." third with a time of 6:41.55. 
The Irish tirst won the var­Not to be outdone, the Irish sity four grand finale with a second varsity eight captured time of 7:33.0, besting the title in its race with a Louisville, who finished sec­mark of 6:39.62, again finish­ond at 7:40.1. ing just ahead of Louisville 
The Irish boat was manned (6:46.74). by coxswain Sarah Keithley, The boat was crewed by Shannon Cassel, Kristan coxswain Eileen Froehlke, Madison, Casey Fairbanks Ankica Jedry, Jessica Guzik, 
and  Mary  Alyssa  Close,  
McNamara.  Danielle Stealy,  
Notre Dame's  ''A team bid obviously  Andrea  Doud,  
second varsity four team of coxswain  would be the next step for this program. "  Kendra Short, Sarah Kate Hafner and  
Kelsey  Otero,  Pamela Jefson.  
Danielle Leary, Erica Castro­ Martin Stone Irish coach  With the Big East trophy  

Larsen, Alyssa Teves and Kaitlin Jackson also won their grand final with a time of 7:46.92. Connecticut finished second in the second varsity four with a time of 7:58.96, and Rutgers was third, finishing in 7:59.28. 
Manned by coxswain Maria Romano, the Irish varsity eight of Julie Sobolewski, Amanda Polk, Mary Quinn, Laura Pearson, Allison Marsh, Melissa Felker, Meghan Boyle and Sarah Palandech won their grand final with a time of 6:28.32. 
Louisville finished second at 
already on the 
shelf, Notre 
Dame will now look to secure a -bid in the NCAA championship on May 26 in Windsor, New Jersey. 
But first it will need a strong performance at the South/Central regional race. 
"A team bid obviously would be the next step for this program," Stone said. 
"Our team is very unselfish, and we have a number of people on this team who want to do whatever they can to help us get that bid." 
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu 

that it was their time." 
The scored the first four goals within the op~ning eight min­utes, including free position goals by Ferguson and sopho­more Caitlin McKinney. But by halftime the Orange had cut the lead to 6-5 and played Notre Dame tough the rest of the way. 
Syracuse managed to tie the game throe times and twice took the lead in the second half, but the Irish hung tough and pulled out the win. 
"lWei seemed to be doubting themselves in the second half," Coyne said. "But we dug in and found a way to win." 
Senior Crysti Foote, the all­time Notre Dame scoring leader and finalist for the Tewaarton trophy, again show­cased her talents, 
for third championship 
By TIM KAISER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame lived up to all the expectations, as the Irish scored 122 points and won their third consecutive Big East Championship on Lake Quinsigamond in Worcester, Mass Sunday. 
No. 12 Notre Dame easily outscored the nine other Big East Teams compeiing at Sunday's meet. 
Louisville finished second with 103 points, followed by Syracuse with 76. 
With the win, Irish coach Martin Stone captured anoth­er conference championship -and also the Big East 

Write Sports. Call Ken. 1-4543. 
-------~I
--------~--------~­
Monday, May 1, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 j 

Travel 
continued from page 20 
Bodensteiner credited center Angie Potthoff and guard Sarah Leibshcer ~ who com­bined for 13 points -with the win. 
Potthoff, the former Big Ten scoring champion at Penn State and WNBA forward with the Minnesota Lynx, gave Anthony Travel an inside force the Powerhouse could not counter. She dominated the offensive and defensive glass, denying Powerhouse shots in the key. ller game-high 11 points propelled her to her first tournament champi­onship since she guided the Columbus Quest to the title of the now-defunct American Basketball League in 1998. 
Unlike student-led Powerhouse, all of Anthony Travel's team members are University employees, with jobs ranging from assistant tennis coach to assistant bas­ketball coach (Potthoff) to Ticket Office workers who guarantee those coaches' crowds. 
But more important to the team than professional experi­ence, Bodensteiner said, was Anthony Travel's basketball know-how, as all of its mem­bers have at one time played on the college hardwood. 
"When it comes down to it, we have five players who've been coached at the collegiate level and that gives us an 
advantage," Bodensteiner 
said. 
While Potthoff was. the 
team's hardcourt star, 
Bodensteiner was the true 
Bookstore veteran for Anthony 
Travel. Sunday marks the 
third consecutive year 
Bodensteiner has taken home 
the title. 
But the victory was not with­
out an early scare. 
After a 3-3 tie, Powerhouse 
went on a 4-0 run to take its -biggest lead of the game thanks to the hot shooting of junior Lauren Hesano, who had a team-high four first-half points. Anthony Travel finally inched back to tie it at 10-10 before Bodensteiner put in one of her three points to take 
the lead at halftime. 
With the rain and winds 
swirling down on the players, 
Powerhouse had trouble find­
ing the basket in the second 
half as it relied on their out­
side shooting. Meanwhile, 
Anthony Travel kept feeding 
Potthoff and stretched its lead 
to the biggest of the game at 
16-11 and then 19-14. 
Powerhouse stayed in the 
game using its youthful exu­
berance to chase down loose 
balls -to the pavement if 
necessary. The swarming 
defense of Hesano and point 
guard Annie Parret forced 
turnovers to keep them in the 
game. Parret, who Hesano 
described as "a bailer," car­
ried the team in the second 
half with four points. 
"That was probably the best 
team we've played against in five years in terms of the team's intensity," Bodensteiner said. 
Powerhouse center Tess Murray fought hard for posi­tion underneath the basket on offense and defense, but did not see many second-half touches. 
"She was hurt [earlier in the tournament], but she played really well down low," Hesano said. 
Hesano managed to draw a couple of fouls on drives to the lane, but in the end, Powerhouse was not able to create enough shots in the paint against a bigger front­court, and the constant rain made it increasingly harder to handle the ball and bury jumpers. 
"Everybody's shots were short," Hesano said. "But there's nothing we could do about it. It was fun though ­that was most important." 
Powerhouse's loud and loyal fans -who, judging by audi­tory allegiance, comprised all but two in attendance ­rewarded their efforts by forming a Bookstore-staple, the tunnel of hands, while they cheered their apprecia­tion for the players who ran through. 
Meanwhile, as Anthony Travel's two loyal supporters looked on, the team was rewarded with what they entered the tournament for ­the championship. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 

Draw 
continued from page 20 
Draw gained control of the ball thanks to a controversial over­and-back call, a decision that lead to the Ndukwe basket. Ndukwe was fouled in the lane and, despite missing the majority of his foul shots dur­ing the contest, made the one shot that counted the most for his team. 
"Chined11m carried us at the end of the game," Bad Draw captain Eric Laumann said. "He was heckled pretty badly throughout the game, but he's a Division-One athlete, and he was able to play well in spite of it." 
Ndukwe took control of the game for his team in the extra time, scoring most of his teams baskets after the teams had reached the 21-point mark ­a performance that helped win him the Bookstore MVP award. 
"It could have gone to any­one else on the team," Ndukwe said. "Laumann, [Dan] Schultz, [Chris] Devitt, or [David] Fitzgerald. We played a great team game and throughout the whole tournament it was a full team effort." 
Although Ndukwe's 10 points and nine rebounds were best on his team, the real star of the championship game was this year's Mr. Bookstore ­freshman Carl Andersen, who became a quick crowd favorite with his tough defense and long-range shooting. 
Andersen scored 13 points and netted five rebounds as the Saltines' point guard, and he single-handedly brought his team to overtime by scoring four straight baskets in the game after Bad Draw took a 19-16lead. 
"It feels great to be honored with the Mr. Bookstore award," Andersen said. "But if we've shown anything this year it's that team basketball prevails -the way I see it, the Saltines all won Mr. Bookstore." 
Going into the game, Bad Draw felt confident about its chances and its ability to use size and experience to win the game, despite not having Irish quarterback Quinn in the line­up. Ndukwe quipped that Quinn was in Los Angeles for a movie reading. 
But the young Saltines ­consisting of four sophomores and afreshman -came ready to play and were able to out­rebound Bad Draw for much of the game. Despite the effort, the Saltines kept the game out of their own reach in the first half with poor second-chance shooting in the paint. 
As the Saltines crept closer in the second half, it looked as though the top-ranked team might falter, but Bad Draw members held strong and were able to finish their Bookstore careers on a-high note. 
"It's good to finish the right way with a W," Ndukwe said. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at 
jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
Huskies 
continued from page 20 
was intentionally walked to secure the inning-ending double play ball. 
The left-handed-hitting Brezovsky belted the first pitch from reliever Ted Garry (3-2), who was credited with the loss. Freshman reliever Kyle Weiland picked up his 12th save of the year and closed out the Irish come-from-behind victory with two-thirds of an inning of score­less work in the bottom of the ninth. 
"Even though we were down three runs early, I think the guys on our team just really believe in themselves in their ability to come from behind," Mainieri said. 
Irish starter Jeff Samardzija threw seven and two-thirds innings, allowing five earned runs on nine hits and three walks. The junior right-hander struck out three Huskies batters and threw 70 strikes in his 111 pitches. 
The Huskies took the early lead with three runs on four hits and an error in the second inning off Samardzija. Notre Dame responded with two runs each in the fourth and fifth innings. 
Dressman scored Lilley on a double in the fourth and then scored on a Connecticut error. In the fifth, Lilley knocked an RBI single to right field, and Barnes scored the fourth Irish run with an RBI sacrifice fly. 
Connecticut took a 5-4 lead with two runs in the bottom of the fifth, and the two teams traded a run each to leave the game at 6-5 entering the ninth. 
Notre Dame 7, Connecticut 3 
Junior right-hander Jeff Manship (6-1) mowed down eight Huskies batters in his seven innings of work to get the win and take the second game of Saturday's doubleheader. 
Manship allowed three earned runs on six hits and a walk, while throwing 60 of his 101 pitches for strikes. In 10 starts this year the righty has fanned eight or more batters seven times. 
Cooper went 5-for-5 on the game with an RBI and three runs off the Huskies. Connecticut starter Rich Sirois (4-2) entered the nightcap with the fifth-best ERA (2. 79) in the Big East. 
The Huskies took a 2-1 lead after the first, the Irish run com­ing off a Barnes double. The Irish then tied the game with one run in the third inning on a Dressman single to right field. 
The Irish bats broke the dead­lock with a run in the sixth before opening up the game with three men plated in the seventh to take the 6-2 lead. Left fielder Matt Bransfield, Barnes and Brezovsky each drove in a run in the seventh inning. 
The Huskies picked up one run in the home half of the sev­enth, before Notre Dame capped off the scoring with a run in the eighth on a Cooper RBI single up the middle. 
Irish relievers Jess Stewart and Mike Pury came in for Manship, throwing an inning each -Dury earned the save, his first on the year. 
"Jess Stewart and Mike Dury and Kyle Weiland were just absolutely phenomenal this weekend," Mainieri said. 
Notre Dame 1, Connecticut 1 (13 innings) 
Sophomore Wade Korpi made his first conference start for Notre Dame and held the Huskies to a draw in seven innings of work Sunday as the game was called after the 13th inning due to a pre-set stop­page time enforced by the Big East. 

"Even though it's a tie, which is not what we're looking for­there's never such thing as a good tie -we held them off," Mainieri said. "We took the field four straight innings knowing that if the other team scores, the game is over, we're off the field." 
Korpi allowed one run on six hits and two walks, while strik­ing out five batters. The sopho­more lowered his season ERA from 1.56 to 1.53 after the con­test and was pitching in place of injured senior Tom Thornton. 
Huskies starter Nick Tucci worked seven and two-thirds innings, allowing no earned runs on five hits and three walks. 
The lone Irish run came on a Barnes groundball to shortstop Dennis Donovan that was mis­played with the bases loaded in the fifth inning. Cody Rizzo and Cooper reached base after get­ting hit by a pitch on consecu­tive at-bats. Lilley then loaded the bases on an infield single with Barnes due at the plate. 
Connecticut answered in the bottom of the fifth and scored on a play at the plate. With men on first and second, the Huskies' Austin Wasserman lined a single up the middle to Rizzo. Rizzo threw home but catcher Sean Gaston's tag was late and the score was tied up at 1-1. 
Mainieri said Notre Dame thought it had recorded the third out twice before the score. 
Connecticut received a con­troversial hit-by-pitch call to extend the inning, and the play at the plate was a bang-bang play. 
Relievers Dury and Weiland spelled Korpi, Dury threw a scoreless eighth and Weiland pitched five innings -his longest season outing. 
"For your pitcher to go out there and compete for your team like that -as a fresh­man, no less -is unbeliev­able," Mainieri said. 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 
----------'----------------------­


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, May 1, 2006 
with returning Buccaneers with the 28th pick of the Draft. childhood team. "It's going to be great," Michael Clayton, Joey Saint Louis took Klopfenstein "Growing up a Giants fan, Fasano said. "Notre Dame has
Draft 

Galloway, Ike Hilliard, and B.J. with the 14th pick of round 2 watching him coach when I a ton of people in the league. 
Johnson for playing time at {46th overall). was a little kid, makes [the Julius and I got along real well
continued from page 20 

wide receiver. Bavaro, the man to which selection] a little more special when he was at Notre Dame." "I was just really excited after On day two, the New Weis compared Fasano, played for me," Fasano said. Fasano will report to mini­sitting around all aftnrnoon ... England Patriots drafted for­for Notre Dame from 1982-84. Fasano will have to do his camp in Dallas Thursday to be talking to [Cowboys mer Irish guard Dan Stevenson He was an All-American his best to earn significant playing before returning to Notre owner! Jerry Jones and Coach with the 205th senior season. time, as the Cowboys return Dame for graduation exercis­Parcells," Fasano said."l was overall selec­''I'm honored Pro Bowl tight end Jason es. just sitting there absolutely tion. Fasano "! was just really that he said my Whitten to the lineup for the Six Notre Dame players knowing nothing up until I got said he excited after sitting name in the 2006 campaign. Dallas also signed contracts with NFL that phone call. I knew there exchanged text same sentence added former Seahawk Hyan teams as undrafted free agents
around all afternoon ... 
wnre a couple teams that were messages with as Bavaro," Hannam at the position. Sunday. Linebacker Corey rnally intnrested in n'le and Stevflnson to be talking to Fasano said. Fasano said he expects Dallas Mays and wide receiver Matt could pick me, but I didn't after the [Cowboys owner} Parcells to run a two-tight end forma­Shelton both signed with the know." Patriots select­coached Bavaro tion often next year. Patriots. while punter and
Jerry Jones and coach
Fasano was one of two Notre ed the guard. from 1985-90, "I look forward to working place kicker ILl. Fitzpatrick
[Bill} Parcells." 

Dame playnrs selnetnd on thl' Fasano was winning two with [Whitten and 1-Iannaml," signed with the New York Jpts. lirst day. the fourth tight Super Bowls he said. "And just whatever Linebacker Brandon lloyte ThA Tampa Bay BuccitneP.rs end selected, Anthony Fasano with the New the team needs, I'll be there went to the Colts, running snlnctt~d former Irish wide behind York Giants for them." back Rashon Powers-Neal
former Irish tight end

receiver Maurice Stovall with Maryland's before resign-Fasano joins former Irish signed with the Denver the IJOth pick in the draft. Vernon Davis, ing due to running back Julius Jones in Broncos and offensive tackle 
Fasano said he spoke with Marcedes Lewis of UCLA and health issues. Dallas. Jones rushed for 993 Mark LeVoir signed with the Stovall after the Cowboys .Joe · Klopfenstein from A Giants fan from New yards in 13 games last season Chicago Bears . made their pick but before Colorado. Davis went sixth Jersey, Fasano said he admires after bursting onto the scene Tampa Bay selncted the wide overall to San Francisco, and Parcells, even if they will now as a rookie with 819 yards in Contact Ken Fowler at rneeivnr. Stovall will competP. Jackson-ville selected Lewis team up against his favorite just eight games. kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
--· .--·.... ..................-...~. ~· •tr· P"'·.,~ "····· 
TuesdaY,· May 2vs; Cleveland State 
5pm 

First 200 fans will receive a Notre Dame Baseball Cap 
4:;:1 AN NJIERICAN 
R:WUITION 

WAKE UP THE ECHOES 
front 

.... 
.........,
.. 
.,• .., a ...... ., 
--... 
-
-
() ~-: " :--;"
.... ..... ...,,._._._ 
....................... ._.. 
..... ...-, ~ ... -_.,..._.._... 
---~ .... ---.......
..~, --·-...-~'#~ ...... -.........-·Wiifft,p~ 
~...,.... ~
.......... 
-o:; ............ ~ .......
.... __
................ ..... ~ 
......,_.... ........ 


-w-w-w.rocknebookmark.com 
Knute Rockne 75th Anniversary Commemorative Bookmark 
This bookmark is an exact replica of the actual prayer card distributed at Coach Rockne's Funeral. 
• 
Must BUY for Alumni, Family and Friends 

• 
Lifetime Keepsake 

• 
Buy before you leave for summer vacation 

• 
Have it shipped home or to your dorm 

• 
Made in the U.S.A. 


J&K Card, LLC 
back 

Monday, May I, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
JOCKULAR 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 


CROISSANTWORLD 

JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
PIGER 

I I I [ J 
@2005 Tribune Media Serv~ces, Inc All Rights Reserved 
BLAWR 
I I I 
b
tTRAIPY j

J I [ I I 
www.jumble.com
tPYSEDE J I I b 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

THE: THIE:F WAS ARRt:STt:D Bt:C.AUSt: THE: C.Rt:DIT C.ARD WAS--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print answer here: 

"[I I I I I J" 
(Answers Monday)  
Yesterday's  Jumbles: Answer:  FABLE ONION CRAVAT POETIC What they used to join the in-crowd at the hot  
dance club -THE ENTRANCE  

EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Justin Timberlake, 25; Minnie Driver. 36; Portia de Rossi, 33; Nolan Ryan, 59 
Happy Birthday: Ifyou are practical in the way you approach things this year. you will find an angle that works. Keep in mind that you don't get anything for nothing. Hard work. ingenuity and putting yourself on the line will work as long as you don't overindulge in any way this year. Your numbers are I 0, 14, 27, 33. 41,45 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): You can reach your goals ifyou are careful in how you present things. You will have stamina and will know what will interest the people you are dealing with. You can make tlnancial gains ifyou are smart. 
*** 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Change can be good and. in this case. you have to trust in your own judgment. The decisions you make to put the past behind you are right-on. Partnerships on all different levels can be gratifying. **** GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): The good will outweigh the bad if you don't let your emotions get in the way. A chance to do something that can tum into a ne\\ position or advancement must not be looked at lightly. Don't let a scheme that is not viable ruin your practical plans. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): It may be hard to pa11 with things but ifyou reall) aren't using them anymore, give to those in need. You will be praised for your kindness. Someone from your past will show interest. ***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take a close look at partnerships or any agreement-­be careful to read the tine print. Someone is likely to be dishonest with you. Don't get angry --outmaneuver whoever is trying to take advantage. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Personal and professional relationships appear tc be changing so adjust your position in both cases. Someone you work with will cause problems for you. Don't overreact --remain calm and you will stay in control. *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Do something that will perk you up or make you feel more confident about yourself. An idea you have for a project will tak< flight. Don't count on everyone being enthusiastic--especially loved ones. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Use your charisma and finesse to get what you want in your personal life. But when it comes to an important business arrangement. you may have to bend more than you think. * * • * * SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't be fooled by a big talker. Today you will be vulnerable to other people's agendas. Deception in business can be expected so protect your interests by refraining from making a commitment. •• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can get a feel for what the competition is up to by listening to what everyone else is saying. A change in your professional direction will do you good. •••• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Talk may be cheap but today it will have an impact on you emotionally. Be careful not to retaliate or to say things you'll regret later. Keep your guard up but don't take action just yet. * * • PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your need to interact with others can be satisfied ifyou volunteer to help a cause you believe in. Money can be made ifyou are smart with your investments. Approach someone who owes you money --it'o time to collect. ••• 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, caring and willing to go beyond the call oi duty. You are curious, inventive and easily upset if someone doesn't get what you are trying to do. You are a little ahead of your time. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfon, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 "No bid," in bridge 
6 Settled, as a bill 10 Go after, as flies 14 BBC sci-fi 
classic 15 Shows on TV 16 Head, in France 17 Carouse, when 
young 20 Main arteries 21 Out, as a candle 22 Go gaga over 25 Volkswagen bug 26 "Who to 
argue?" 27 Place of refuge 30 Part of Ralph 
Kramden's laugh 

31 The fifth letter of "garage," but not the first 
33 Got up 36 Clinch the game 
41 Occupied, as a lavatory 42 Them, to us 44 Buenos Aires's land: Abbr. 47 Zany 50 Sgt. or cpl. 51 Adds to, as a bar bill 54 Person from Pocatello 56 Colorful Apple computers 57 One of the Gabor sisters 
59 "Now tell me something I don't know" 

64 Transport on rails 65 Perched on 66 Blackmore's "Lorna 67 Concerning, in a memo 68 Mollycoddle 69 Came to a close 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

DOWN 1 Doorkeepers' 

demands, briefly 2 Paid player 3 "How adorable!" 4 Sand bar 5 "Darn it all!" 6 Danish or tart 7 Sony competitor 8 Colored eye 
part 9 High-speed Internet inits. 1oSturdy wall 
composition 
11 Riches 
12 Historic Hun 
13 Consumer 

Reports employee 18 Greek god of love 19 Scheduled to arrive 22 Notes after mis 23 Old Testament book 
24 Prison sentence that may be "without parole" 
25 Univ. class president, maybe 

28 Washed up 29 Self-proclaimed psychic Geller 32 Prefix with night or light 34 Get out of the way 35 A billion years 
WILLSHORTZ 


37 Gas station  45 Water cooler  57 Letter after  
fixture  tidbits  epsilon  
38 Happy_ clam  46 Bother horribly  58 Neatnik's  
39 City near Tahoe  48 U.S. operative  opposite  
40 1978 Village People hit  49 Wood-shaping tool  60 Key above caps lock  
43 Over there, old-style  52 Doofus 53 Can./Mex.  61 Silent acknowledgment  
44 Competitor of  separator  62 180° from WSW  
Capitol and Epic  55 Wears  63 Tie the knot  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address ________________________________________ 
City _____________ State ______ Zip___________ 
.------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, May 1, 2006 
page 20 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXV 
Pride of the pavement 
Bodensteiner wins third straight title as Anthony Travel beats Powerhouse 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 

Anthony Travel used its years of professional experience to send five more customers packing Sunday as the top seed defeated No. 3 Powerhouse 21-17 to cap­ture the Women's Bookstore Basketball Championship. 
Dnspite being cold for most of the day, Maja !Jansen rose to the challenge at the end of the game to sink her first point -and Anthony Travel's final shot -to cap a second half in which the favorites were able to use their superior size and experience against Powerhouse. 
Anthony Travel captain Jill 
see TRAVEL/page 17 
Above, Carl Andersen knocks the ball away from Chris Devitt. At left, Dan Ott shoots over Chinedum Ndukwe.
• 
PHOTOS BY ALLISON AMBROSE 
U Got a Bad Draw wins second crown against Saltines in pouring rain 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 

Chinedum Ndukwe nailed a free throw at the rain-soaked Bookstore courts Sunday to secure top-seed U Got a Bad Draw's 26-24 victory over No. 10 Saltines and the 2006 Bookstore Championship Sunday. 
The game marked the final contest for at least some of the two-time champions, as Ndukwe announced after the game he and fellow •Bad Draw member Brady Quinn are retiring from Bookstore Basketball and will not return to play next season. 
With a 1-point lead, No. 1 Bad 
see DRAW/page 17 
BASEBALL 

Irish take two, tie third game of crucial series at UConn 
"You can't help but think of eight-team Big East tourna­Brezovsky's RBI single to left the plate in first baseman Craig
By KYLE CASSILY 

that," Irish head coach Paul ment after the weekend series field with the bases loaded Cooper. Cooper led off with a 
Sports Writer 

Mainieri said. "We play for and now has a three-game lead completed a ninth-inning Irish walk and third baseman Brett championships, and we're clos­over Connecticut (28-15-1, 13-comeback in the opening game Lilley advanced Cooper into 
Notre Dame went a long way ing in on winning a regular­4-1 Big East). of Saturday's doubleheader. scoring position with a single to in securing its grip on first season championship." The tie ended Notre Dame's "They performed in the left field. place in the Big East with a After taking both ends of a 16-game winning streak in Big clutch," Mainieri said. "It was Right fielder Danny Dressman near-sweep of Connecticut in a doubleheader Saturday, 7-6, 7-East play, two shy of the record one of the most exciting games tied the game at 6-6 with a three-game series this weekend 3, the Irish fought to a 1-1 of 18 straight wins set by the I have been a part of at Notre double to left-center field, and in Storrs, Conn. that reduces draw Sunday with the second­2001 Irish edition. Dame." the bases were juiced for the team's magic number for place Huskies. The Irish entered the last Brezovsky when Jeremy Barnes the conference championship to Notre Dame (35-9-1, 16-1-1 Notre Dame 7, Connecticut 6 frame trailing the Huskies 6-5, live. Big East) clinched a spot in the Second baseman Ross but the top of the order came to see HUSKIES/page 17 
NFL DRAFT 
Parcells, Dallas take Fasano 
Stovall, Stevenson 
also drafted; six Irish 
players sign contracts 
By KEN FOWLER 
Spons Ediwr 
Charlie Weis called Anthony Fasano the best tight end he's coached since Mark Bavaro. 
Thanks to this weekend's NFL Draft, Fasano will get the chance to earn that compli­ment under Bavaro's former coach and Weis' former men­tor. 
Bill Parcells and the Dallas Cowboys selected Notre Dame's 
see DRAFTIpage 18 


MEN'S lACROSSE 
Hubschlllann leads in victory over OSU 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
It was a two-man show on Saturday as senior attack Brian Hubschmann and Pat Walsh led Notre Dame to a 10-8 victory over rival Ohio State in front of a crowd of 1,563 fans at Moose Krause Stadium. 
Hubschmann tallied three goals and three assists to tie a career-high with six points while Walsh had two assists to go along with his three goals. With their strong performances on Saturday, Hubschmann (25 goals, 16 assists) and Walsh (20 goals, 21 assists) both increased their team-leading point totals to 41. 
''I'm shaking my head because [Hubschmann and Walsh] are playing so well right now," Irish head coach Kevin Corrigan said. "They've really started to come into their own the second half of the season. They were our key to success [on Saturday]." 
Ifubschmann and Walsh were slated to start alongside each other in the 2005 season before Hubschmann tore his ACL, forc­ing him to miss his entire junior season. This year, the two are 
see OSU/page 15 
WOMEN'S LAX WOMEN'S CREW 
NO SOFTBAll 

SMC TENNIS 
SMC SOFTBAll 
TRACK

en .....
1-
c.,:) Notre Dame 11 z Syracuse 10 
The Irish won 7-4 and 

The Belles finished The Belles swept 
Seven more Notre Junior Meghan 
Notre Dame won the 
lost 7-3 in a two-game 

fifth at the MIAA Kalamazoo in a two-Dame athletes will com-Big East Championship 
a: s 
Tournament in Holland, 
series against South 

game series in their final pete at the Big EastMurphy scored the game at Lake Quinsigamond
C) c:s 
Florida in Tampa. 
Mich. 

regular season contests. 
Championships nextwinning goal for the 
in Worcester, Mass. 
c:c 
weekend.

Irish as time expired. 
a. ~ 
en 
page 16 page 14 page 14page 16 page 12
page 15 





