
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 41: ISSUE 38 TUESDAY. OCTOBER 24.2006 
Police eject, cite, arrest 61 at game 
Liquor law violations prompt action Saturday; police also uncover counterfeit football tickets 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
News Editor 
Police ejected 29 people from Notre Dame Stadium for alcohol related violations during Saturday's home football game against UClA 
Two people were also arrested at the stadium -an adult for public intoxication and a student "for allegedly punching another student in the face and causing an injury," Associate Director of Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) Phil Johnson said in an e­mail Monday. 
Twenty-three arrest tickets were issued to adults for viola­tions of liquor laws and four tick­ets were issued to juveniles for the same violation outside the stadium, Johnson said. 
Police made seven custodial arrests outside the stadium ­two for public intoxication, two for violation of liquor laws and public intoxication, two for liquor law violations, false informing and resisting law enforcement and one for liquor violation, false informing and possession of mar­ijuana and drug paraphernalia, Johnson said. 
One juvenile was arrested for selling counterfeit tickets and was brought to the county juvenile justice center. Three other warn­ings were issued for "re-selling tickets on campus," Johnson said. 
Arrested offenders were trans­ported to St. Joseph County Jail, Johnson said. 
Two people were sent to area hospitals by ambulance due to 
see ARRESTS/page 4 

White discloses details of JACC donation 
1959 graduate of Notre Dame. The gift is part of the $22 million ·dollars donors already had 
pledged to the University. 
"The inspiration [for the dona­tion] was the school being in need," Naimoli said. "If it helps our programs in any small way, I'd be happy with that. ... If there's one thing we can do to honor [former Executive Vice President Father Ned Joyce's] memory, we wanted to do it." 
White said the Naimoli gift would be earmarked for the planned 16,000 square-foot sta­dium club and hospitality area, which will be tied to approxi­mately 800 seats at the south end of the arena. The south dome will be renamed Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center after Philip J. Purcell III, a Notre Dame Trustee 
see DONATION/page 8 


$5 million will go to hospitality room and stadium club 
By KEN FOWLER 
News Writer 
With Notre Dame still search­ing for the final donations for its $24.7 million plan to renovate the south dome of the Joyce Center, athletic director Kevin White continued his media push to gain momentum on the project this weekend, announcing "a very significant piece of the proj­ect." 
White announced Friday a $5 million "lead gift" by the family of VInce Naimoli, who is chairman of Major League Baseball's Tampa Bay Devil Rays and a 

Students positive 
after narrow Win 
By PATRICK CASSIDY 
News Writer 
Students who returned early from fall break for the Notre Dame-UCLA game Saturday witnessed a nail-biting win that brought the Fighting Irish record to 6-1. 
Even without their starting quarterback, the 4-2 UCLA Bruins still put a serious scare into the Irish and their fist­pumping fans. With just 27 sec­onds remaining, Notre Dame was down 17-13. 
"[UCLA's defense] was very impressive," junior Brian Camus said. "It's a little discon­certing after the last couple games that our offense hasn't been able to kick it into full gear." 
Despite the solid UCLA defense, the Irish were able to drive the ball inside the 35­yard line with 2:25 remaining. But the team's hopes seemed to be dashed when Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn failed to reach a first down on his fourth QB sneak of the drive. Many students, however, 
see UCLA/page 8 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM Verizon optin1ized on campus 
Company improves service over fall break 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
Assistant News Editor 
Plagued by delays through­out the summer and fall, the University's plan to improve cellular telephone service was finally completed over fall break when Verizon opti­mized its service on campus. 
Both Cingular and Verizon entered into agreements with the University last spring to begin an antenna­installment project during the summer. 
The project's goal, said Gordon Wishon. chief infor­mation officer for the Office of Information Technologies, was to provide enhanced cell phone service on campus by the first home football game. Cingular achieved the goal in September, but because Verizon lacked the equip­ment to connect the campus antennas to its nationwide network, it lagged behind its rival, Wishon said. 
Verizon had 'Originally expected the equipment to arrive after football season, but the company made some changes, Wishon said. 
"They expedited the deliv­ery of that equipment, in order to get it in before the UCLA game," he said. "They were successful in getting it installed, in place, and oper­ational. So, in fact, the cus­tomers of Verizon on campus should now be enjoying much-improved service." 
For junior Sara Cermak, 
see PHONE/page 4 

GuluWalk unites Uganda, ND 
By LAURA BODEIN 
News Writer 

About 30,000 people in more than 80 cities and 15 countries mobilized Sunday for GuluWalk Day, an event organized to sup­port the abandoned children in northern Uganda -and nearly 150 of those walkers hailed from Notre Dame and the South Bend community. 
Walkers braved the cold and rain to walk from the Potawatomi Zoo to the gymnasium of Indiana University of South Bend, a co­sponsor of the event, to promote peace in war-torn northern Uganda. 
"It is amazing that a group of individuals living in a fairly small part of northern Indiana could come together so eagerly in glob­al solidarity," said senior Nicole Steele, part of the event's organiz­ing committee. 
Part of the mission of senior Lindsay Hero and her GuluWalk committee was to raise aware­ness of the terrible human tragedy occurring in Northern Uganda, said senior Patrick Corrigan, president of Notre Dame's Uganda Conflict" Action Network. 
"The humanitarian conse­quences of the conflict between the rebel forces and the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) have been tragic," he said. 
Each day, as many as 40,000 children walk from villages and Internal Displaced Persons Camps (IDCP) into the town of Gulu, where they spend the night in safety and away from the threat of being abducted by the LRA. The GuluWalk, organizers said, is intended to be a symbolic effort showing worldwide solidar­ity and support for these children. 
The peace talks between the LRA and the Ugandan govern­ment are at a critical stage, and GuluWalk participants worldwide were encouraged to make a pub­lic statement in support of this process. 
"With 20 walks in Canada, 44 in the United States and events in Australia, Burkina Faso, China, England, France, Italy, Kenya, Netherlands, New Zealand, Serbia and Togo, it's clear that this is not a fringe issue but one that citizens from every corner of 
see GULU/page 8 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, October 24, 2006 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Fantasy fix 

It's Sunday afternoon. I'm sitting in my common room watching the NFL, remote control in hand, flipping back and forth between channels faster than Charlie Weis eats a cheeseburger. 
I nave two papers to Greg Arbogast work on and 
a test to 
Sports Writer 

study for, and the study abroad deadline is approaching faster than I'd like to admit, yet I can't tear myself away from the television and my lap­top. Why? Two words: fantasy football. 
Who needs to study for Professor Brady's exam when Tom Brady is in the red zone against the Bills? 
The great thing is that I'm not the only one currently obsessed with fan­tasy football, and that's a good thing. Right? I mean, 18 million Americans can't be wrong. A couple more quick stats for you: the number of fantasy football participants is currently grow­ing at a rate of seven to 10 percent on top of the 18 million people who already enjoy spending their Sundays in front of 10 televisions at a sports bar. Even more impressively, fantasy football currently generates an eco­nomic impact of close to $4 billion dol­lars. That would make up about 1/5 of the GDP of Tanzania. 
Here's my question. Why does America love fantasy football so much? Is it the bragging rights you get to hold over your friends for an entire year? The fact that the typical sports fan thinks he knows more than most NFL coaches usually leads to some pretty heated debates, and fantasy football provides the perfect proving ground for inflated sports egos. 
Nothing gives quite the same satis­faction as watching your seventh round pick turn into your leading receiver followed by a well deserved "I told you so" to all those who jeered you on draft day. 
There's just something about being the GM of your own football team. For those who live vicariously through sports, it's the closest they'll ever get to sitting in a luxury suite during games and negotiating with multi-mil­lionares. 
Apparently, fantasy football leagues have picked ·up on this with the addi­tion of "keeper leagues." Keeper leagues span the course of multiple seasons, allowing you to hold on to a specified number of players from year to year followed by a draft for new players at the beginning of each sea­son. That's about as close to managing a real team as you can get. 
Plus, having your own fantasy foot­ball team allows you to watch games as never before. It's the 49ers versus the Raiders on an early December Sunday. I'm riveted. No seriously. I have Frank Gore and Randy Moss on my fantasy team. If nothing else, hav­ing a fantasy team increases the chance that you'll have a reason to watch the network games in your area. 
Whatever the reason, Americans ­myself included-are hooked on fan­tasy football. I think that you have to worry about the negative effects of this, like the aforementioned neglect of school work ... wait, hold on. The Jets are in the red zone. I got to go watch. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at 
garbogas@nd. edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS YOUR FAVORITE TELEVISION SHOW AS A CHILD AND WHY? 

Alan Geygan  Chris Meister  Logan Zoellner  KatySidrow  Mariko Dailey  
freshman Keough  freshman Keough  sophomore Morrissey  junior Pasquerilla West  junior McGlinn  
"'Legends ofthe Hidden Temple' because Olmec and the temple  "'The Power Rangers.' The pink ranger was hot."'  "'Mr. Rogers.' I loved the imaginary place."'  "Bible Videos,' because Adam and Eve didn't have furniture. "  "'Pee-wee [Herman]' because I wish my furniture  





guards were my heroes."' 

Humane Society
1.. ,~1 Sai!:t J<;f.;Ms~ C<~t;r.!)' 
Where Best Friends are Found 
ADOPTION AWARENESS TODAY 
2506 GRAPE ROAD MISHAWAKA, IN 46545 (574) 255-4726 
LAURIE HUNI/Ihe Observer Notre Dame senior Morgan Dill plays with Coco, who was on campus Sunday as part of the Domer Doggie Walk. The event raised awareness for the Humane Society of St. Joseph County. 
OFFBEAT 
Fried Coke is a big hit 
CHICAGO -Fried Coke has become the latest artery-clogging hit at state fairs, local media reports. 
The gooey Coke-battered nuggets topped with cola syrup won the "most cre­ative" title at the Texas state fair in Dallas last month. Since then, the deep-fried phenomenon has spread to North Carolina and Arizona. 
"We've been getting calls from everywhere since we introduced it," Elizabeth Martin, a spokeswoman for the North Carolina fair, told the Dallas Morning News. "Everyone wants to know where they can get it." 
Fried treats are as big of a draw at state fairs as the rides and prize-winning farm animals. Twinkies, cookies and even pickles are stuck with a stick, dipped in batter and then seared in the deep fryer. 
Boston breaks pumpkin record 
BOSTON -Boston's nickname is Beantown, but Pumpkintown might also apply now. 
Bostonians on Saturday lit 30,128 pumpkins on Boston Common, shatter­ing the world record for the most jack-o'-lanterns lit in one place. 
"It's fantastic," said Jim Laughlin, a spokesman for Life is Good, the Boston clothing company that sponsored the event. "We've been going after this record for a long time." 
The old record of 28,952 lit pumpkins had been held since 2003 by Keene, 
N.H. That city tried to keep up with their own attempt Saturday, but lit only 24,682 pumpkins. 
Information compiled .from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
0::: 
U.l 
:c 
!;;: 
U.l 
3: 
...I 
<C 
(.) 


0 
HIGH 47 HIGH 31 HIGH 53 HIGH
...I 
LOW 35 LOW 30 LOW 27 LOW 

would come alive in real life." 

IN BRIEF 
A blood drive will take place from 11:30 a.m. to 
5:30 p.m. today at Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. Faculty, staff and students can register by calling 631­6100. 
Philosophy professor David Burrell will present a work­shop titled "Peacemaking in the Holy Land: Political Islam" at 4 p.m. today. Faculty and staff can register for the workshop at the Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning. 
Amy Mcinerny, attorney and founder of the Women's Injury Network, will speak on "Abortion and Women: Rhetoric vs. Reality" Wednesday at 7 p.m. in 102 DeBartolo Hall. The event is free and co-sponsored by the South Bend Diocese and the Center for Ethics and Culture. 
The Notre Dame chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People will hold their annual AIDS Research Dinner from 6 p.m. to 8 Wednesday in the LaFortune Ballroom. Tickets are $5 and can be purchased at the LaFortune box office. 
The film "Good Morning, Night" will be shown in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. Wednesday. Tickets are $3 for students and $5 for facul­ty and staff. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 45 HIGH 42 LOW 38 LOW 35 
Atlanta 63 I 39 Boston 54 I 41 Chicago 45 I 35 Denver 62 I 34 Houston 76 I 66 Los Angeles 70 I 57 Minneapolis 48 1 32 New York 53 I 42 Philadelphia 54 I 36 Phoenix 801 66 Seattle 54 I 46 St. Louis 57 I 40 Tampa 71 I 61 Washington 53 1 37 
Tuesday, October 24, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Leaders discuss co-sponsorships 
Members address self-defense class and College Dance Team 
they can rely on in those sit­
By KATIE KOHLER 
uations." 

News Writer 
The program will teach 
participants how to get out 
Saint Mary's Board of of hazardous situations, Governance members while making the maneuvers addressed the co-sponsor­easy to implement. ship of a self-defense event "It is good, comprehensive and the Saint Mary's College training that everyone Dance Team this week. should be able to do," 
Off-Campus Gariepy said. commissioner Students will Ashley Harrison "It is good, get priority in presented infor­the class and
comprehensive

mation about the remaining
training that 

the self-defense spaces will be event, which everyone should be used for facul­will be open to ty and staff
able to do." 

on and off cam­members. The pus students, as class will meet 
David Gariepy

well as faculty three times for and staff if director of security an hour and space permits. Saint Mary's 15 minutes. 
The goal is for 20 to 40 stu­dents to participate in three classes, Harrison said. The cost of the class will be $5 for students, which will be refunded if the student attends all three classes. 
New Director of Security David Gariepy said he saw the need for a self-defense class after recent break-ins and assaults on and around campus this year. 
"I think it is a great pro­gram because you can apply self-defense in so many dif­ferent environments," Gariepy said. "It will give [participants] something 
"It is amaz­
ing how much you can learn. I highly rec­ommend it," Gariepy said. 
Executives also discussed the co-sponsorship of the Saint Mary's Dance Team, which is returning after a one-year hiatus. 
Admissions commissioner Annie Davis and student coach Valerie Pekofske explained the team's need for sponsorship. Since the dance team is not a varsity or intramural sport, the Athletic Department did not offer adequate funding for it, said Davis, who wants to make more students aware of the team. 
"We want to represent Saint Mary's well," Davis said. 
The team will perform at Saint Mary's basketball games, Midnight Madness and Dance Marathon. They will also wear their uniforms to the remaining Notre Dame pep rallies. 
"We are already in full swing," Davis said. "We want to keep the club running for next year too." 
In other BOG news: 
+There will be a majors fair today at 5:30p.m. in Haggar Hall for students who have not decided what they wish to study. Pizza will be provided. 
+There will be a Pumpkin Carving Contest today in the dining hall. Teams of two to four can participate. Prizes will be awarded to the stu­dents with the best carvings. 
+Haunted Tunnels will be Thursday from 8 to 10 p.m. Tickets are $3 this week out­side the dining hall and $5 at the door. 
+October is Domestic Violence Awareness Month. Tomorrow, the documentary "Broken Vows" will be play­ing in Madeleva Hall at 8 
p.m. in room 249. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleOl@saintmarys.edu 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 7:00 -I0:00 PM 
• 
Open Lecture followed by book signing 

• 
DeBartolo Hall, Room 102 


• Open to student~, alumni and the public 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 3:00-5:00 PM 
• 
Meet-n-greet reception followed by book signing 

• 
ECK Visitors Center 


• Light refreshment~ prmided 
• Open to students, alumni and the public 
DR. PAUL A. WRIGHT (Class of '72) first met MotherTeresa in 1992 at acenter for the homeless in 11juana, Mexico. Despite professional success as acardiologist, Paul was filled with anxiety and aheavy he-art, but time spent with Mother Teresa transformed him. In 2004, he received the Thomas A. Dooley Award from the Notre Dame Alumni Association for humanitarian accomplishments such as the "Poorest of the Poor'' tl1at distributes clothing to underprivileged people in the U.S.. and the "Medication Assistance ProgrJ.lll'' that makes prescription drugs available to needy patients. Each year he returns to Notre Dame to offer aMedical Ethics Symposium for students. Dr. Wright and his family live in Ohio. 
Sponsored by Ave Maria Press, Center for Ethics and Culture, and the Eck Visitors Center 
ltntnigration director to discuss legislation 
Special ro The Observer 
Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, will deliver a lecture titled "Immigration and the 
Midterm 


Elections" at 5:30 p.m. Nov. 2 (Thursday) in the Annen berg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of 

Sharry Art. The talk is free and open to the public. 
In conjunction with the current Snite exhibition "Caras Vemos, Corazones No Sabemos (Faces Seen, Hearts Unknown): The Human Landscape of Mexican Migration," the lec­ture will highlight and offer analysis of pending immi­gration legislation, and dis­cuss its impact on the upcoming midterm elec­tions. 
Sharry is considered a leading spokesperson for pro-immigrant policies. He has been widely quoted, including in The Wall Street Journal, New York Times and Washington Post, and has served as a guest on the NewsHour with Jim Lehrer, The McLaughlin Group and 
CNN's Crossfire. 
Prior to joining the forum, Sharry served as executive director of Centro Presente, an agency that assists Central American refugees in Boston. 
He helped found the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy Coalition and led efforts to resettle refugees from Vietnam, Cuba and else­where for a national organi­zation now called Immigration and Refugee Services of America. 
Based in Washington, D.C., the forum is one of the nation's premier immigra­tion policy organizations with more than 250 member groups nationwide. Its mission is to embrace and uphold America's tradition as a nation of immigrants. The forum advocates and builds support for public policies that welcome immi­grants and refugees and are fair and supportive to new­comers in the United States. 
Sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns' "Economic Justice for All & Democracy Matters Midterm Election Series," the lecture is co-sponsored by the Snite, Institute for Latino Studies, Department of Political Science, Washington Program and the Program in American Democracy. 
This book presents ma~y ofMother 
Tetesa-'s own great spiritual ideas and ideals and inspires otherpeople to go on doing the work she did so well on earth. One can only bless this work andpraJ' for its totalprosperifJ' in the da;'s to co1ne. 
FR. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C. 

---~---~-----------------­
SPECIAL OFFER! NOW ONLY $7! 
Bring in this coupon to receive discount for books purchased at either event! 
(No limit on amount of books you can buy) 
ISBN: 1-59471-072-4 
128 pages, Reg. $9.95 
A• 
I\. AMinistry of the 
ffii-1 Indiana Province of Holy Cross 
Tuesday, October 24, 2006 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Phone 
continued from page 1 
the improved service was a pleasant surprise. 
After perusing Irish para­phernalia at the Bookstore Monday afternoon, Cermak couldn't decide on a sweat­shirt color for her mom. She quickly reached for her cell phone, but was doubt­ful she would get a signal. 
She pushed the green "talk" button anyway. 
"It actually went through, which is unusual," Cermak said. "I've done that ear­

second floor, and I didn't get service there either." 
When the University announced it would stop providing in-room tele­phones beginning this year, the Steinbruecks planned to pay the additional cost to have one in Mikalyn 's room. But once she got to campus, she said, there was no need. 
"It works fantastically. I get service basically every­where on campus," she said. "Some game week­ends, it doesn't work as well as normally, but I can definitely see an improve­ment from last year." 
And although 
Verizon pre­

UCLA 
continued from page 1 

still had faith in their team. 
"lie knows what he's doing," freshman Matt Gore said about Notre Dame head coach Charlie Weis' five attempts on fourth down. "But it is a very interest­ing call against a tough UCLA run defense." 
After two quick passes, the Irish were past the 50-yard line -but time was running out. 
As Quinn was flushed out of the pocket, wide receiver Jeff Samardzija followed him across the field, made the catch and 
weaved his way towards the 
lier this year, "It works dicted dropped 
end zone. On his 45-yard trip to 
and it didn't fantastically. I get calls during the 
the end zone, Samardzija broke 
work." four-day opti­
through UCLA tackles and
service basically 
Sophomore mization 
Verizon cus­everywhere on process last 
tomer Mikalyn campus." w e e k , Steinbrueck is Steinbrueck's also grateful service
Mikalyn Steinbruek 
Arrests

for the remained improvements. sophomore steady. 
continued from page 1

A chronic Verizon customer "I was here 
oversleeper, Steinbrueck relies on her parents' per­sistent phone calls to rouse her -a method that proved faulty last year when she was a freshman in the basement of Pangborn, where she had no cell phone service. Her parents had to call the dorm phone every morning, which her slumbering roommate did not appreci­ate. 
"We ended up having to switch roommates at the semester," Steinbrueck said. "Then I went to the during [fall] 

break, and I heard that the system was supposed to go down, but I didn't have any problems at all with my cell phone," she said. "I've had perfect serv­ice." 
Now, the wake-up call that comes in each morning (on a crystal-clear five bar signal) is just loud enough for Steinbrueck -and quiet enough to be ignored by her snoozing roommate. 
intoxication, Johnson said. 

In addition, one person was issued a "trespass warning for urinating in a public place." 
NDSP was assisted outside the stadium by Indiana State Excise Police, South Bend Police and St. Joseph County Police. 
"Patrols of parking lots to pro­mote a family friendly game day 
dashed Bruins fans' spirits. "[UCLA fans] were louder The student section erupted. than us at times," sophomore As students embraced each Alexandra Badewig said. "It's 
other in excitement, the Fighting "[UCLA fans] were 
Irish football louder than us at 
team made 

times. It's sad
its second 

great come­because our team back of the needs our support
2006 season. 

but after [fall] break 
"Did they 

even kick the the student section point after?" seemed empty. " asked fresh­man Steve 

Alexandra Badewig
Rivera. "I was too busy sophomore celebrating and I even lost my shoes. It was crazy." 
sad because our team needs our sup­port but after [fall] break the student section seemed empty." 
Notre Dame will travel to Baltimore, Md. this weekend to take on Navy (5-2) -a team with one of the best running attacks in the nation. The Irish will attempt to extend their 42-game win­ning streak against the Midshipmen. 

But some fans thought stu­dent enthusiasm seemed Contact Patrick Cassidy at muted. pcassidy@nd.edu 
environment and to enforce Indiana laws regarding alcohol is not an undercover operation," Johnson said. "These patrols will continue for the next home foot­ball game." 
Johnson did not specify whether preliminary breath test<> (PBTs) were used or if police offi­cers were in uniform or plain­clothes. 
"NDSP will continue to work with other area police officials for the next home football game," Johnson said. 
Johnson said if football week­end festivities include the use of alcoholic beverages, Indiana laws should be followed. 
"Don't let alcohol get in the way of your safety or fun or keep you from enjoying a great football game," Johnson said. "Keep in mind that laws regarding the use of alcohol will be enforced and you are responsible for your con­duct." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 



RED,... ISCOVERINGFOUR CATHOLIC AUTHORS 
"Sigrid Undset: Greatest Catholic Novelist of the Twentieth Century?" 
Michael Foley Professor of Philosophy at Baylor University Tuesday, October 24 DeBartolo Hall Room 155 8:00PM 
Also Coming ... 

Monday, October 30, 2006, 8:00PM DBRT 155 "The Call of the Desert in the Age of Ashes: The Centrality of Suffering in Walter Miller's A Canticle for Leibowitz" Ralph Wood,Professor of Theology and Literature, Baylor University 
Tuesday, November 7, 2006, 8:00PM DBRT 155 "Bernanos and the Noonday Devil" Ralph Mcinerny, Professor of Philosophy, University of Notre Dame 
Tuesday, November 14, 2006, 8:00PM DBRT 155 David Solomon: "Robert Hugh Benson: Anticipating the Apocalypse" Professor of Philosophy, University of Notre Dame 
For more information go to ethicscenter.nd.edu 












ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, October 24, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WJRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Protestant, Catholic meet in Belfast 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland -Northern Ireland's dominant Protestant leader, who has long denounced the Roman Catholic Church as corrupt and heretical, held talks Monday for the first time with the leader of the church in Ireland. 
Ian Paisley's meeting with Archbishop Sean Brady, leader of Ireland's 4 million Catholics, was timed to signal Paisley's willingness to work with Catholics on the eve of negotiations to revive power-sharing in Northern Ireland, the central goal of the Good Friday peace accord of 1998. 
Britain and Ireland, which are leading three days of multiparty negotiations starting Wednesday in Scotland, have given the Northern Ireland Assembly a Nov. 24 deadline to elect a Catholic-Protestant administration or be shut down. 
Tree caused May crash killing I 0 
KABUL, Afghanistan-A helicopter crash that killed 10 U.S. troops last May was caused by a series of mishaps, a new report concluded. Problems included a nighttime landing on a small mountaintop zone, trees that were too close to the runway and soldiers who lacked axes to cut them down. 
Maj. Matt Hackathorn, a military spokesman at the U.S. base at Bagram, north of Kabul, said on Monday that the May crash came "as a very hard lesson" in the difficulties of flying in Afghanistan. 
The CH-47 Chinook-a large transport heli­copter with two overhead rotors -had such a small landing zone that only its two rear wheels could touch down, while its front two wheels hovered off the mountain's side, the report from the Accident Investigation Division of the U.S. Army Combat Readiness Center found. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Alaskan villages reject Chavez' oil aid 
ANCHORAGE-In Alaska's native villages, the punishing winter cold is already coming through the walls of the lightly insulated ply­wood homes, many of the villagers are desper­ately poor, and heating-oil prices are among the highest in the nation. 
And yet a few villages are refusing free heat­ing oil from Venezuela, on the patriotic princi­ple that no foreigner has the right to call their president "the devil." 
The heating oil is being offered by the petro­leum company controlled by Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, President Bush's nemesis. While scores of Alaska's Eskimo and Indian villages say they have no choice but to accept, others would rather suffer. 

Missouri middle schooler in custody 
JOPLIN, Mo. -Fascinated by the Columbine bloodbath, a 13-year-old boy in a dark green trenchcoat and mask carried an assault rifle into his school Monday, pointed it at students and fired a shot into a ceiling before the weapon jammed, authorities said. No one was hurt. 
"Please don't make me do this," he was quoted as telling administrators before police arrested him and thwarted what they called a "well thought-out plan" to terrorize his school. 
Police said a note in the student's backpack indicated he had planted an explosive in the school, but no bombs were found. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Deputy injured during reenacbnent 
KOKOMO, Ind.-A sheriff's deputy said he's walking again six weeks after breaking his pelvis during a reenactment of a War of 1812 battle that was being filmed for the History Channel. 
Howard County Sheriff's Deputy Richard Ferguson, 47, said he lost control of his horse and was injured after bouncing hard several times on his saddle. 
"All of this for 10 seconds on the History Channel," he joked. 
Ferguson was part of the reenactment in late August in Friendship, a small community in southeast Indiana. 
IRAQ 


Shiite militia hunts down police 
Anti-American cleric's loyals re-emerge in south; 4 killed in rival militia violence 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Militiamen loyal to an anti-American cleric re-emerged Monday in the southern city of Amarah, hunting down and killing four policemen from a rival militia in a brutal Shiite-on­Shiite settling of scores. 
The Iraqi army set up a few roadblocks but did not interfere in the movement of Muqtada al-Sadr's Mahdi Army fighters after police fled the streets. The latest attacks came despite a pub­lic call by al-Sadr to halt the tribal vendetta, suggesting that splinter groups were developing within his militia. 
The spread of revenge killings among Shiites in their southern heartland has opened a new and ominous front as American forces struggle to control insurgent and sectarian bloodshed to the north -especially in Baghdad. 

In the capital, the U.S. mil­itary reported that a soldier was listed as missing Monday night and that American and Iraqi forces were scouring the area where he was last seen. The missing soldier is an Army translator, and the initial report is that he may have been abducted, said a mili­tary official in Washington, ly given that his army was drag the people of one plagued American forces in speaking on condition of standing aside in Amarah nation into fighting and Baghdad, surrounding areas anonymity because the and has fallen short of deliv­strife," he said. Amarah is and sprawling Anbar information was not cleared ering troops requested by the capital of Maysan province to the west. for release. the Americans for the ongo­province. Members of ai-Qaida in 
With the fighting weighing ing security crackdown in Hoping to fmd a political Iraq are not included in heavily on the prospects of Baghdad. solution, the Bush adminis­either the talks or the U.S. Republican candidates in "The Iraqi government tration has asked the al­amnesty proposal, which midterm elections two weeks hereby warns all groups Maliki's government to issue would require Iraqi govern­away, the military on with illegal weapons to an unconditional amnesty to ment approval and is by no Monday announced four refrain from any armed Sunni Muslim insurgents, means certain since it is con­new U.S. deaths-a Marine activities that undermines prominent Kurdish lawmak­trolled by Shiites. and three soldiers. So far public security. Let everyone er Mahmoud Othman told The Bush administration this month, 87 American be informed that orders The Associated Press. He is a said Monday there were no service members have been have been issued to the confidant of Jalal Talabani, plans for dramatic shifts in killed in Iraq. armed forces to stop any the country's president. policy or for ultimatums to 
Prime Minister Nouri al­transgression against state He and Hassan al-Seneid, the Iraqi government to Maliki announced a military power and to confront any a member of parliament force progress. crackdown to tame the illegal attempt regardless of close to al-Maliki, also told Defense Secretary Donald country's staggering armed its source," al-Maliki wrote AP that U.S. officials were H. Rumsfeld said U.S. gov­violence, taking special aim in his decree. engaged in ongoing talks ernment and military offi­at continuing lawlessness in "The Iraqi government with members of the insur­cials were working with Iraq Amarab. also calls in particular on the gency, including members of to set broad time frames for 
But his statement, while people of Maysan province Saddam Hussein's outlawed when Iraqis can take over 16 notable for its timing, to exercise caution and care Baath Party, to seek an end provinces that are still under appeared toothless, especial-in the face of attempts to to the fighting that has the control of U.S. troops. 


Lower standards raise recruits 
those, about 70,000 were first-time Test-taking ability, the Army said,
Associated Press 
recruits who had never served before. does not measure loyalty, duty, honor, 

WASHINGTON -The U.S. Army According to statistics obtained by integrity or courage. recruited more than 2,600 soldiers The Associated Press, 3.8 percent of Daniel Goure, vice president of the under new lower aptitude standards the first-time recruits scored below Lexington Institute, a private this year, helping the service beat its certain aptitude levels. In previous research group, said there is a "fine goal of 80,000 recruits in the throes years, the Army had aHowed only 2 balance between the need for a cer­of an unpopular war and mounting percent of its recruits to have low tain number of recruits and the stan­casualties. aptitude scores. That limit was dards you set." 
The recruiting mark comes a year increased last year to 4 percent, the "Tests don't tell you the answer to after the Army missed its recruitment maximum allowed by the Defense the most critical question for the target by the widest margin since Department. Army, how will you do in combat?" 1979, which had triggered a boost in The Army said all the recruits with Goure said. the number of recruiters, increased low scores had received high school But, he added, accepting too many bonuses, and changes in standards. diplomas. In a written statement, the recruits with low test scores could 
The Army recruited 80,635 soldiers, Army said good test scores do not increase training costs and leave roughly 7,000 more than last year. Of necessarily equate to quality soldiers. technical jobs unfilled. 
page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, October 24, 2006 
Learn more about Marjon Walrod and tell us more about you. VISit pwc.com/bringit. 
Your life. You can bring it with you. 


*connectedthinking 

~ tet~ ~~~~~_:":::~,.;;.~~ ~..}...,~ ~~ 1'~-~.t>:~ ~;.,.~~®. ~~-t.t~..t.::1~~'lJ'J)t~::(~·.::·~r;.:(':"~.,_" ~-~$."'.1.· f!;:-~ C·id~~·~-.::o..l"'i~C·:-:~~~n ;..j.;.;;, '\1 :W~wrt ;.~-~A~~-'€~~ ~:-~·~'·!??~""';.;--:~ ~ ~-~ .:;::-:·:"lA~ ~1UfM.. ~~ ~~~~A:~~....~>k:L»t:~ ·~'t-rl ~~ -~~ ·~~3~ ~fiM ~.:• .._ -~!$.:-~-~ -~·t· -~·~t ~~~r· ''"!; i.i ~'Pii.L~ .i);J;~·..,:__ .rt.·:.J;-.::;;.1~-n. ~{ ~~,.. '"~.{~~..:~~~~-'"'.~~· ~--.~ ?::,:t.r.;g~-~11; m ~~r~~-=-~~ u..~ ~;: w~ ~~t ~'=ft.:.~~~~~ 4-!iHi··-~-:~ k~~.... .,jJ1'-i.l"~ ::::~'!':..,.7b-.il~ ~,~~~:.. 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS

Tuesday, October 24, 2006 page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
12,116.91 +114.54
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I,8 8 7 173 I ,363 2,480,437,030 
AMEX 
NASDAQ 
NYSE. 
S&PSOO 
NIKKEI(Tok.YiJ I6.QI\1i~IIC.iif:l!!!ililltll~ll FTSE.IOO(London) 6,166.10 +10.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ) 
+0.57 +0.43 42.4~ 
INTEL CP (INTC) +0.56 +0.12 21.4~ 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 5.2(
-0.95 -0.30 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.05 28.4~
+0.07 

JDS UN I PHASE CP ODSUD) +0.02 14.5(
-0.07 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE +0.88 +0.042 4.82E 
13-WEEK BILL +0.40 +0.020 4.97( 
30-YEAR BOND +0.98 +0.048 4.952 
5-YEARNOTE +0.88 +0.042 4.79E 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.52 58.8 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -13.50 582.9( 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.58 89.11 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
119.380 

EURO 
0.797 

POUND 
0.534 

CANADIAN$ 
1.128 

IN BRIEF 
Stocks rise despite geopolitical termoil NEW YORK -Stocks rose slightly Monday, with the Dow Jones industrial average briefly touching a new intraday trading high, after the 
U.N. Security Council condemned North Korea over its claim of an underground nuclear test. 
Wall Street had opened the session lower after North Korea announced it had set off an atomic weapon underground. Reports that OPEC was near announcing its first output cut in two years sent oil prices higher. But stock prices turned mixed by midday and were high­er by early afternoon. 
"We are heartened by the fact the market seems to be shrugging off a major geopolitical event," said Jim Russell, director of core equity strategy for Fifth-Third Asset Management in Cincinnati. which manages $22 billion. 
But Russell added that because of the Columbus Day holiday, volume was too light to say the day's trading represented a trend or theme. 
Bond investors knock down rates 
NEW YOHK -The bond market's rally in recent months looks to be the work of a new generation of "vigilantes" who have turned the notion of holding the Federal Reserve's feet to the fire on its head. 
Back in the 1980s and early 1990s, these investors took matters into their own hands when they felt the Fed wasn't doing enough to fight inflation. By selling bonds, they pushed rates on things like 30-year Treasury bonds high enough to slow the economy in the hopes of warding off the stinging effect of higher prices. The Fed eventually followed suit by increasing overnight rates. 
This go-around, a new class of bond investors seem to be working the opposite way. They are knocking down rates of Treasury securities in what amounts to an audacious gamble that Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his col­leagues soon will have to reverse course and cut short-term borrowing rates to avoid a recession. 
As some on Wall Street have pointed out, this change in tactics may have something to do with who manages money these days: Hedge funds and other speculators play an ever-larg­er role in the bond market and the pressures they face to show outsized returns are intense. 

Google in deal to buy You Tube 
Internet leader dismissing copyright concerns to obtain video-sharing company 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO 
Internet search leader 
Google is snapping up 
YouTube for $1.65 billion, 
brushing aside copyright 
concerns to seize a starring 
role in the online video rev­
olution. 

The all-stock deal 
announced Monday unites 
one of the Internet's mar­
quee companies with one of 
its rapidly rising stars. It 
came just a few hours after 
YouTube unveiled three 
separate agreements with 
media companies to count­
er the threat of copyright­
infringement lawsuits. 
The price makes YouTube Inc., a still-unprofitable startup, by far the most expensive purchase made by Google during its eight­year histor_y. Last year, Google spent $130.5 million buying a total of 15 small companies. 
Although some cynics have questioned YouTube's staying power, Google is betting that the popular video-sharing site will pro­vide it an increasingly lucrative marketing hub as more viewers and advertis­ers migrate from television to the Internet. 
"This is the next step in the evolution of the Internet," Google Chief Executive Officer Eric Schmidt said during a con­of Hurley and Chen, 27, together after just a week money by helping them ference call Monday. that he compared them to of negotiation. connect with the growing 
YouTube will continue to Google's now 33-year-old YouTube has drawn less number of people who retain its brand, its new co-founders, Sergey Brin flattering comparisons to spend most of their free headquarters in San Bruno and Larry Page. the original Napster, the time on the Internet. and all 67 employees, Brin sees the similarities once-popular music sharing As its negotiations with including co-founders Chad too. "It's hard to imagine a service that was buried in Google appeared to be near Hurley and Steve Chen. better fit with another com­an avalanche of copyright fruition, YouTube on Meanwhile, Google will pany," Brin said during infringement lawsuits filed Monday announced new continue to run a less popu­Monday's conference call. by incensed music compa­partnerships with Universal lar video service on its own "This really reminds me of nies and artists. Music Group, CBS Corp. site. Google just a few short While most videos posted and Sony BMG Music 
The deal is expected to years ago." on YouTube are homemade, Entertainment. Those close before the end of the The two companies even the site also features vol­alliances followed a similar year. share a common financial umes of copyrighted mate­arrangement announced 
''I'm confident that with bond: Sequoia Capital, an rial -a problem that has last month with Warner this partnership we'll have early Google investor that caused some critics to pre­Music Group Inc. the flexibility and resources owns a roughly 30 percent dict the startup eventually The truce with Universal needed to pursue our goal stake in YouTube. Menlo would be sued into oblivion. represented a particularly of building the next-genera­Park-based Sequoia But Hurley and Chen significant breakthrough tion platform for serving remains a major Google have spent months cozying because the world's largest media worldwide," said shareholder and retains a up with major media exec­record company had Hurley, YouTube's 29-year­seat on the company's utives in an effort to con­threatened to sue YouTube old CEO. board -factors that might vince them that YouTube for copyright infringement 
Schmidt thinks so highly have helped the deal come could help them make more less than a month ago. 

fRANCE 

Airbus chief resigns after short stint 
Associated Press 

PARIS -Airbus chief executive Christian Streiff resigned Monday after a little more than three months as head of the troubled European plane maker and parent company EADS named one of its own co-CEOs to replace him. 
European Aeronautic Defence and Space Co. said in a statement Louis Gallais will succeed Streiff in the top job at Airbus while continu­ing in his current role as joint head of the Franco-German defense group. 
Streif"s departure deals a fresh 
blow to crisis-hit Airbus. The planemaker, which stunned investors in June by doubling the A380's production delay to one year, doubled it again this month to two years and said the holdups would wipe $6.1 billion off EADS profits over four years. 
Streiff took over as Airbus CEO just over three months ago, replac­ing Gustav Humbert -who was ousted along with EADS co-CEO Noel Forgeard as a result of the A380 production crisis. 
EADS didn't say in the release announcing Streiff's resignation why he was leaving. 
In an interview for Tuesday's edi­tion of the French daily Le Figaro, Streiff said he had not been allowed the "necessary operational powers" to do the job effectively and welcomed as "a step in the right direction" the combination of the Airbus and EADS roles. 
Streiff, a 52-year-old former Saint-Gobain executive, drew up a cost-cutting turnaround plan for Airbus that enjoyed strong support from EADS directors, but he clashed repeatedly with the board over how the plan should be imple­mented and how much control he would personally exercise, accord­ing to three officials familiar with the discussions. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 24, 2006 
Donation 
continued from page 1 
and former chief executive offi­cer of Morgan Stanley, who donated $12.5 million to the project. 
"By having an opportunity to kind of talk about [this donation] publicly, it may get other [poten­tial donors] to emulate, and it does build and create momen­tum," White said. "And there's no question that's occurring." 
While remaining optimistic, White once again noted that con..'ltruction -expected to take about one year -cannot begin until 100 percent of the needed donations have been pledged and the University has 75 per­cent of that cash on hand. 


Gulu 
continued from page 1 
the globe want to see their govern­ments engage in," the GuluWalk Web site reads. 
Hero visited Uganda over the summer, and it was this visit, she said, that inspired her to take on the challenge of organizing the citywide walk. 
"The hard work paid ofT. It was really a community effort," Hero said. "The majority of walkers were from Penn High School and Marian High School, but we had people drive in from Michigan and students from Taylor University in southern Indiana a<; well as mem­bers of the South Bend corumuni­ty." 

Through donations and the sale of GuluWalk T-shirts, hats and wristbands, local participants raised nearly $2,500, I Iero said. 
Hero led a rally after the walk in the IUSB gymnasium. 
Steele spent the summer work­ing in Uganda and reealled a des­perate plea made to her by the director of an Internal Displaced Persons Camp (IDCP) in the dty of Gulu: "We are here. We are suf­fering. We arc suffering. We are dying, don't forget us." 
"Over 90 percent of the popula­tion lives in these eamps," Steele said. "There is little sanitation, lim­ited medical supplies, and they are 100 percent dependent on ouL'lide food. In one camp they have 26,000 people in a 50-meter radius." 
Organizers urged the walkers to take action and pressure the U.S. government to pay attention to the issues of Uganda. 
"One of the main goals of the Gulu Walk this year was to pro­mote the support of peace talks occurring right now and to walk in solidarity with the night com­muters," Steele said. 
Other speeches included the reading of testimonials written by aetual night commuters who walk eight to 10 miles from IDP camps to city centers to avoid kidnapping. If captured, the young men are generally forced to become sol­diers and are often forced to kill people in their own families or vil­lages, Corrigan said. The young women are often given to military officers for pleasure and may be tortured. 
Putting a l'aee to the stories 
about the struggles in Uganda, the event organizers brought in a 15­year-old Ugandan refugee named Evaline. 
"She helped realize the real human eonsequences," Corrigan said. 
Evaline, who now lives in Fort Wayne, Ind., was captured by the LRA and held captive for three years, suffering from inhumane forms of torture. Permanently dis­figured after breaking her lower jaw when hit by flying shrapnel in a firefight, she has already had three facial operations. 
The original GuluWalk began in July 2005 with just two people. Rapidly, it has grown into a world­wide peace movement. 
Contact Laura Bodein at lbodein@nd.edu 
The University officially announced its plan to renovate the Joyce Center in a press con­ference Oct. 5. White's announcement Friday did not elaborate on the plan.<; or fund­ing for the renovations, other than identifying the Naimoli family as the second largest donor for the project. 
"We're still trying to put together the last $3 million of funding, and we're working at that as we speak," White said. "[Associate athletic director] Bill Scholl and everyone else in development is working at that all the time." 
The plan to renovate the Joyce Center began in early 2001 when White started designing his "master plan" for athletic facilities on campus. 
At the time, he had architec­tural firm HNTB study the arena and begin developing plans for a renovation. Five years and $22 million later, HNTB is still the University's architect for the project. 
"The [Development Office has] been working on this since we had HNTB start the study back five years ago," White said. "These public disclosals are really important [for acquiring the final donors]." 
The new design is an attempt to update and revitalize an arena that hosts more than 350 events a year. Former Notre Dame athletic director and for­mer NCAA President Gene Corrigan said Friday that plans like this one can be successful. 
"My feeling is that the most important thing is that [facilities] are practical," Corrigan said. "If you look at Duke, they're one of the top five overall programs in the country ... and they're still playing on the same basketball court they were playing on when I was in the 40s, but they fixed it up. It's a lot nicer than it was." 
The project will be the first major renovation of the 38­year-old basketball arena. The last significant addition to the Joyce Center was the 1985 con­struction of the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
The construction will reno­vate both the interior and exte­rior of the south side of the Joyce Center, benefiting both the basketball and volleyball pro­grams. 
Purcell Pavilion will replace the 5,500 bleacher seats in the upper bowl of the south dome with blue chair-back seats. That change will reduce the maxi­mum arena capacity from 11,418 to approximately 9,800. 
The new arena will also fea­ture an exterior extension -a "dramatic entrance" -at the south end of the stadium, cur­rently Gate 11. That addition will include a 4,500 square-foot ticket office and 3,000 square­foot retail store. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 





Studying Hard? 
Reward yourself with a $40 Papa John's Gift Card, exclusively from Discover® Card 
The Dh;cover Student Card 
• No annual fee 

lntro APR* * Cashback Bonus® on every purchase 
• 
Easiest online account management 

• 
$0 fraud liability guarantee 

• 
Talk to a live person in under 60 seconds 



Apply today. Call 1-800-347-2091 or visit Discovercard.com/apply4card Enter or mention invitation #SBDQ. 

DISC VER. 
f.ktter !ng.redknt.s. CARD 
Better 1'1zza. 

*lnlro purcho!<~ APR: 0~~ l!nHI lhE kist doy ~J thn 6th b:!l:no period nfler yom iKCcmnt :!; op~1~, ih~rn o vnriobl~l (Ole of \6.99-:t.:-, nppliE!$. CClsh APR 22 99t<~.. Def<wi! APR· vario:ble between 2!.99'7.._ ond 28.~.?9"?:~ bw.ed on pnyrne;~! his·!nry. ,tv\in fi~1 Chu. $.50 CmJ, tn:ms let:c J%, rnin. $5 ond no max. R(:thn o~. of Augo&i L 2006. *...,$4t.J PAPA JC)HN'S GiF-1 CARD (')fff.R: Yov w;!l rEH:t:!ivw lwo $?.0 Pop~l J~>hn'!<-?. Gifi C!ln:h by m~lii, w:!hin 6·8 week:-; of rnok1ng ym1r ittf<i pvn:ho~,e with ).•ovr D:s;:t>vef C9rd. if o~. of the dot~ •lte dEft~! min~ wheth~:-)."A' met the terms of thi~ oHef1 y;..:nJr o':covnl !:> ~.;.k.,sed -:.;r dehnquen~; yo;; w:ll not re~;e:ve th~ Gift Curd. Urnif two (;;ft Cwds pet Accv~nJ. \'Ve me n~;..t !t:.-3ponsibie for me!chont delays !n t:-·r•.:.,<:~-5~:!~9 transoction~. Sz.:bjec:t b P<:ip~~ jQhn'$•;, G:ft C<Hd ierm!i 0:1d (~Dnd!tkm:>. oH~r vu!id 10/1/06 ·-l/~! 1/07 (~~2006 D!~Gov~r Bonk, ~~Aernber FDIC 
Tuesday, October 24, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Officials continue to search for 9I 11 ren1ains 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -As the city agency overseeing the removal of the World Trade Center rubble was wrapping up its work in 2002, several officials handling the painstaking recovery of human remains warned that things were moving too fast. 
They believed that more pieces of the 2,749 dead could be found, and that the city shouldn't be rushing such an important task. But they were overruled, two of those officials told The Associated Press this week. 
Over the past few days, dozens of bones have been discovered in underground passages at ground zero, more than five years after the tragedy. 
"I knew that this was going to happen -they really just wanted us out of there," said retired Lt. John McArdle, the Police Department's ground zero com­mander. "There was not a good exit strategy for some of these places, and if there was, it was poorly done." 
A utility crew stumbled upon body parts last week in an aban­doned manhole along the edge of the site, and forensic experts have since dug down and found more than 100 bones and fragments from skulls, ribs, arms, legs, feet and hands. 
The discoveries have angered and saddened relatives of the Sept:11 victims. Of the 2,7 49 peo­ple who were killed that day, the remains of some 1,150 have not been found. That means that families of 40 percent of the vic­tims have nothing -not a sliver of a bone -left of their loved ones. 
"The desire was driven by one thing, and that was, 'Get it done,"' said another official who protest­ed, speaking to the AP on condi­tion of anonymity because he is not authorized to discuss the work publicly. "Many a time the issue was raised about how fast it was going and things were being missed." · 
Deputy Mayor Ed Skyler, who is overseeing the renewed search, said a review of such issues would be premature, but noted that the Fire Department was designated as the lead agency for finding remains, and that the design department proceeded with its work only when the FDNY gave the go-ahead. 
After the twin 110-story towers collapsed, police and fire officials led the backbreaking search for bodies while the Department of Design and Construction was assigned to excavate the debris, which stood 10 stories high at the start. The agency, staffed by engi­neers, architects and construction professionals, specializes in engi­neering and construction proj­ects, including emergency debris removal. 
Each day, the design depart­ment convened planning meet­ings with all the parties involved, including engineers, emergency responders and a range of other city agencies. 
The project finished months ahead of city officials' yearlong prediction, and cost about $750 million -just a fraction of the initial multibillion-dollar estimate. But the design department was sometimes at odds with the res­cue workers, who frequently needed to shut down or pause the operation as they recovered bod­ies. 
"It went from a rescue to a recovery to a construction proj­ect," McArdle said. "There came a point in time when they said, 'We gotta try to wrap this up,' and they tried to expedite it as much as possible, and they jumped the gun, and now you have all of these families hurt and they're finding all these body parts." 
Particular disagreements arose as the design department was preparing to turn over the site _ which belongs to the bistate agency known as the Port Authority. According to people involved in the process, the design department had created a grid map and asked those leading the remains recovery to walk through each area, and sign off, square by square. 
Matthew Monahan, department spokesman, said the intent of that correspondence did not deal with human remains specifically, but rather the agency's overall effort to clean up the site and eliminate safety hazards in preparation for turning it over the Port Authority. 
A powerwashing would not necessarily have reached the 12 subterranean cavities now being opened and picked through this week by teams of forensic anthro­pologists. But Skyler said there may be many more underground areas to examine. 
All involved agencies have also been asked to go back and recall how and when they inspected the buildings on the site's outskirts. Hundreds of bone fragments were recently found on the roof of a skyscraper that had been closed since the attack. 
None of the newly unearthed bones has been identified, but the medical examiner's office has DNA profiles of the victims on file and is working to match the remains. Thousands of the 20,000 pieces recovered during the main excavation still have not yielded matches. 
Mayor Michael Bloomberg said Monday that the cleanup was "a heroic job ... by people who really dedicated themselves -firefight­ers who had lost sons and broth­ers, construction workers who worked in difficult conditions where they had lots of heavy machinery and there was a lot of pressure to do things quickly." 
He added: "And I think, on bal­ance, they did a magnificent job." 
CNN criticized for airing video 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A leading Republican lawmaker on defense issues has asked the Pentagon to bar CNN reporters from traveling with military units in Iraq because the net­work showed insurgent snipers shooting at U.S. troops. 
"Does CNN want America to win this thing?" Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-Calif., asked in an interview Monday on the net­work. In past wars, he said, the press was more pro-American. 
CNN issued a statement say­ing the decision to air the insur­gents' video was "a difficult one, but for a news organiza­tion, the right one. Our respon­sibility is to report the news." 
In a letter released Monday, Hunter asked Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld to yank CNN from the military embedding program, in which journalists spend time with combat units in Iraq. 
Hunter, a staunch defender of the Bush administration and its handling of the war in Iraq, said the decision was irrespon­sible because it could encour­age more attacks on U.S. troops. 
"CNN has now served as the publicist for an enemy propa­ganda film featuring the killing of an American soldier," wrote Hunter, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. California Republican Reps. Darrell Issa and Brian Bilbray also signed the letter. 
CNN last week aired the footage, which was delivered through a contact with an insurgent leader. 
The footage does not show the actual death or wounding of any service member. In one instance, the tape shows a serv­ice member milling around a public area. A shot rings out, and the tape fades to black. 



P vV~Wl/~K'i P ~i.o-K-Y PltaycvK-
AppZy t:o-5~ A bro-c;uL iAtv5 wn.-11\/y lvt~ 2007-8 
PUEBLA, MEXICO 
Fall semester pre-med program Spring semester general program INTERNSHIPS 
MONTERREY, MEXICO 
Business and Engineering courses available Beginning Spanish courses offered Business and Engineering INTERNSHIPS 
INFORMATION SESSION 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2006, 5:30 PM 
204 DEBARTOLO 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: NOVEMBER 15, 2006 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: http:/fwww.nd.edu/"'ois 
Office of International Studies 152 Hurley Building 

CENTRAL EUROPEAN
T: 631-5882 


STUDIES PROGRAM 
IN 
INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA 
2007-2008 Academic Year 
Information Meeting With Professor Gernot Guertler, Director ofthe CES Program 
Thursday, October 26, 2006 210 DeBartolo 5:30pm-7:00pm 

Applications Available www/nd.edu/~ois Ouestions?-Weber.15(ti)nd.edu Annlication Deadline: November 15. 2006 
page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, October 24, 2006 



Hastert aide testifies before panel 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The House ethics committee questioned Speaker Dennis Hastert's top aide for more than six hours Monday, as investigators tried to deter­mine whether Hastert's office knew at least three years ago of Rep. Mark Foley's come-ons to male pages. 
The closed-door testimony by Hastert chief of staff Scott Palmer could help determine who is telling the truth about when the speaker's office first learned of Foley's conduct. Hastert has said it was in the fall of 2005. 
Campaigning for a Republican candidate in Tennessee, Hastert said he plans to testify before the committee this week. 
"What Mark Foley did was wrong. It was ethically wrong. It's a shame. It's actually disgust­ing," Hastert told reporters after a campaign rally. 
In Washington, Palmer's lawyer, Scott Fredericksen, said his client hasn't changed his ver­sion of events. The Hastert aide has disputed one account that he personally was notified about Foley in 2002 or 2003. 
Fredericksen said the testimo­ny was "consistent with the posi­tion he's taken all along." 
Palmer spent the longest time in the committee oflices than any other witness, entering at 1:57 
p.m. and leaving at 8:18 p.m. This is the third week of testimo­ny, as the committee tries to learn how the Republican leader­ship handled Foley's inappropri­ate conduct. 
The speaker has a lot riding on the outcome. He has fended off calls for his resignation with statements that his staff acted properly after the 2005 notifica­tion, and quickly had a lawmaker and the House chief clerk con­front the Florida Republican. 

Hastert said he didn't learn about Foley until late September, when the scandal became public and Foley resigned. 
The speaker's timeline could be shattered if the committee believes former Foley chief of staff Kirk Fordham, who already has testified before the ethics panel. Fordham has said publicly that he told Palmer about Foley in 2002 or 2003, and subsequent­ly learned that Palmer spoke with Foley on the subject. 
"What Kirk Fordham said did not happen," Palmer said weeks ago in his lone public statement on the matter. 
Hastert's version, issued as an internal report, said his staff learned in the fall of 2005 that Foley had sent overly friendly e­mails to a former Louisiana page. The report said the staff did not see the texts of thee-mails, which asked about the 16-year-old's birthday a11d requested a picture. 
The report said the speaker's oflice contacted then-chief clerk Jeff Trandahl, who went to con­front Foley with Hep. John Shimkus, H-Ill. and chairman of the board that oversees the page program. They ordered Foley to immediately stop communicating with the youngster. 
The report added that nobody in Hastert's ollice knew, until the messages became public, that Foley also had sent sexually explicit instant messages to other former pages. 
Ironically, the internal report did not mention any role played by Palmer, despite his status as Hastert's top assistant. 
The speaker has left himself one major escape route, publicly pledging to lire any or his staff members who were found to have covered up knowledge of Foley's conduct. 
Hastert also has said he doesn't recall discussing Foley's conduct with Hep. Tom Heynolds, R-N.Y., the House Hepublican campaign chairman; or Majority Leader John Boehner, H-Ohio, both of whom said they told 1-Iastert about Foley earlier this year. 
Boehner testified before the committee last week and Heynolds was expected to be questioned Tuesday. 
Before Palmer testified, Reynolds' top politieal aide, Sally Vastola, appeared before the committee as it began a third week of closed-door testimony. Vastola is executive director of the National Hepublican Congressional Committee and a longtime top aide to Heynolds. 
Vastola's testimony could touch on how Heynolds reaeted when learning of problems with Foley's behavior toward pages and with whom Heynolds may have shared the inf{Jrmation. 
Testimony from I Iastert's aides would go a long way toward wrapping up the interviews niquired for the panel to make its findings, though it's unclear whether the panel will have enough time to issue a report befom Election Day.The commit­tee, evenly divided between the parties, could issue an interim report 'by Election Day. 
•

Accident kills 1 1n eastern Pa. coalinine 
Associated Press 
TREMONT, Pa. -A coal mine accident, possibly an explosion, killed a miner Monday, but five others escaped, authorities said. 
The incident happened 2,300 feet underground at the H&D Coal Co. anthraeite mine in Schuylkill County, about 80 
miles  northwest  of  
Philadelphia.  
The  victim  was  Dale  

Heightl'er, 43, of Donaldson, according to his brother-in-law Charles Kimmel. Heightler, who had worked the mines since age 16, had a wife and four children, and dreamed of set­ting up an auto repair business, Kimmel said. 
"He was gonna give it up and go into auto repair full time," Kimmel said. "I guess that ain't gonna happnn." 
State and federal investiga­tors were trying to determine the eause of the aeeident, the state Department of Environmental Protection said. Regulators ordered the mine closed until an investigation is complete. 
State police initially said the accident was an explosion. However, other state officials were more cautious, saying it was too dangerous to go down into the mine shaft to investi­gate because the incident knocked out t.he mine's ventila­tion system. They hoped to have it restored Tuesday. 
"Right now, it's a mining acci­dent, a fatal mine accident, and that's what we're terming it until the investigation con­cludes," said Mark Carmon, a DEP spokesman. 
The five miners who escaped were being interviewed, Carmon said. 
The mine is in a remote, mountainous region in eastern Pennsylvania. A June inspec­tion turned up no violations, while an August inspection found brush surrounding an exhaust fan that was cleared while the inspeetor was on site, according to state officials. 
Four workers at the mine were injured Dec. 1, 2004, by debris from an explosion caused by a pipe with a faulty gauge, state ollicials said. The mine reopened after installing safety equipment, and two inspections this year turned up no signifieant violations, the­state agency said. 
The area has the nation's only deposits of anthracite, a type of hard, relatively clean­burning coal that once heated millions of homes but now rep­resents a tiny sliver of the U.S. coal industry. The mines still operating are typically small, with only a few miners. 
So far this year, there have been 41 other deaths in U.S. coal-mine accidents, none in Pennsylvania. In the deadliest accident, 12 men were killed at the Sago Mine in northern West Virginia in January. 

Tuesday, October 24, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 11 

Wis. college to-wn struggles -with student dro-wnings 
After 8 deaths in La Crosse in 9 years, concerns grow about intoxicated partiers falling into three local rivers 

Associated Press 
LA CROSSE, Wis. -Searchers combing the Mississippi River this month pulled out the body of University of Wisconsin-La Crosse basketball player Luke Homan -the eighth college-age man in nine years to disappear from a city tavern and turn up dead in a river. 
La Crosse officials have debat­ed for years how to keep drunk­en students safe, but some say there may be no answer for a town with three colleges, three rivers and $3 pitchers of beer. 
''I'm not sure anything we do can prevent a future tragedy," Mayor Mark Johnsrud said. 
Some officials want to rein in the binge drinking culture. Others have proposed fencing off the scenic waterfront. 
But solutions have so far elud­ed this community where drownings and drinking have claimed lives for years. The city's first recorded alcohol­related drowning was in 1867, according to the mayor. 
The more recent string of 
deaths began in July 1997, when searchers pulled 19-year­old Richard Hlavaty's body from the Mississippi River near a park. College wrestler Jared Dion became the seventh drowning victim in 2004 when his body turned up in the same park. 
The community is saturated with thousands of students attending the University of Wisconsin's La Crosse campus, as well as Viterbo University and Western Wisconsin Technical College. Downtown bars cater to young drinkers, offering booze at dirt-cheap prices. 
The Vibe, where Homan was last seen alive, offers an all-you­can-drink special for $5. Shots are just $1. A sign in the bar's window proclaims: "You're not drunk if you can lie on the floor without holding on." 
Down the street, Brothers offers bottles of beer for a buck on Wednesdays. The Helm boasts 50-cent schnapps and $3 pitchers from midnight to 1:30 a.m. 
U.S. Cellularl1 gets me. so I can get through 
law school. 

Take our best network challenge, test our products, experience our customer service and make sure
Alex 

they are right for you. Illinois 
Samsung a850 

•
• 
FREE CALL ME Minutes•• 

• 
FREE Incoming Text Messages 


f<US.Cellular 
• Unlimited Night and Weekend 
W'e conuect uJrth you: 
Minutes (starting at 7 p.m.) 
• 
!Datebook (Life, organized) 

• 
Fox Sports Mobile Pro getusc.com • 1-888-buy·uscc (Your sports lifeline!) 


Free CALL ME Minutes"' 

::,! ;-...t:.~:-.=:~f· .· 
30-Day Guarantee: 


The community has a long tradition of drinking. Thousands of people converge on La Crosse every fall for its Oktoberfest, a day-long party with abundant beer. And on days when the wind blows just right, the smells of City Brewery waft through downtown. 
"The problem is the culture is already up on a pedestal in this town," said University of Wisconsin-La Crosse senior Cathy Long. 
The city also lies where the Black and La Crosse rivers empty into the Mississippi. Hemmed in by rugged bluffs, LaCrosse is well-known for its scenery. 
But the waterfront can be deadly. Investigators believe Dion fell off a levee that doubles as a pedestrian walkway and a dock for visiting paddlewheel boats. The levee had no railing, allowing him to tumble 10 feet into the frigid Mississippi. 
His death brought to a head years of fears that a serial killer was stalking drunks. Police held a town meeting to reassure peo­ple, explaining that none of the victims was attacked. Investigators said the students had been drinking heavily and noted that Riverside Park is just two blocks from downtown bars. 
A task force appointed to investigate the drownings made 19 recommendations ranging from building gates to the levee to creating alternative forms of entertainment and limiting Oktoberfest to one weekend. 
But only a handful of those suggestions were adopted, including police patrols of house parties and an extra police shift to patrol bars. 
Over time, the focus on drownings faded, Alderwoman Andrea Richmond said. 
"Everybody kind of let it drop," she said. "We've done nothing." 
Searchers found Homan's body Oct. 2, not far from where Dion was discovered. Preliminary toxicology reports put Homan's blood-alcohol level at 0.32 percent, four times the legal limit in Wisconsin. 
Joe Werner, 22, a senior on the University of Wisconsin­Lacrosse basketball team, com­pared Homan's death to losing a brother. 
"They need to do something more down by the river," Werner said. "If enough would have been done, it wouldn't have happened again." 
Students have taken it upon themselves to patrol the park since Homan's death, but resi­dents are calling for some kind of barrier. 
But the mayor does not want fences or gates to mar Riverside Park's natural beauty or send a message that La Crosse is a "playground" for binge drinkers. 
His solution: Spend $60,000 on motion-activated lights in the park to startle drunks and alert them they are close to the water. The City Council is set to consid­er the lights in November. 
Meanwhile, the mayor said, community groups need to keep warning students about the dan­gers of binge drinking, he said. 
"It's a behavior issue," he said. "People are going to do what they want to do." 
Mary Torstveit, assistant director of prevention services at the University of Wisconsin­La Crosse, said students living off-campus are largely on their own. 





CJ'lcr:lr'Tl=r'Tl= -c-oC)=C:r'Tl -1-o == r'Tl-1  ..., ~ c 5I ("') :r ~;·  
=cor'Tl,  
·~  


THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 12 Tuesday, October 24, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

A call to arms 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kare Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 


The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on conrenr. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and departmenr editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolkies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday e)((.C:pt during exam and wcation fK'riods. A ~uhscripiion ro The Observer~ $100 for one academic year; $55 fur one semester. 
The Observer is published <~.t: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall &nd address corrections ro; 
Notre Dame. IN 46556-0779 Th<OI=v" 
Ptriod.ic.al post:agt paid .at Nouc-Dam~ ~O,Box 179 
and additional mailing offices. 024 Somh Dinffig Hall 
Nortt Dame, IN 46556-on9 
The Obst:rver is a member ofthe Associated Press. All ttproduction rights art 
.~. 

As college students, most of us have taken classes or participated in activities which open our eyes to previously unknown issues. Notre Dame students are very blessed to have the opportunity to go to school here and have been given tremendous advan­tages as we start our lives. The combination of education and resources (particularly time) that college stu­dents possess leads many to commit them­selves to rectifying the widespread injustices which we find in the world around us. There is a definite temptation, which I have experienced myself and witnessed in others, to view a social/political agenda as the path towards renewal, but the Christian faith which is integral to Notre Dame points instead to individual change as the surest method of improving our world. 
Progressives and conservatives hold two very different blueprints for the con­struction of a better, brighter society. As far as I understand it, progressives believe that people are, for the most part, good and can be relied upon to do the right thing in the absence of overwhelm­ing external pressures. Progressivism's objective is to restructure the institutions and culture of our society in order to remove those ancient obstacles which hinder the flowering of mankind's natural goodness. 
In general, conservatives believe that we cannot be counted on to make the right choices all the time, and that we are all capable of, and prone to, committing evil acts. Based on this belief, the goal of conservatism is to encourage spiritual transformation and virtue and build and preserve social institutions and traditions which help foster individual enlighten­ment. 

Conservatism and progressivism have great numbers of followers, and barring mass deception or blind adherence, there must be elements of both which are true and yet not contradictory. At a university like Notre Dame, it is particularly useful to look to our faith for insight in finding the truth in all things. As the living Truth, Christ cannot be pigeonholed as an ideo­logue of any stripe, and on the question of the nature of mankind He is quite clear. 
In Mark 10:18, Jesus says to the rich young ruler, "Why do you call Me good? No one is good except God alone." Christ builds on this in Mark 7:20, when he states, "Far from within, out of the heart of men, proceed the evil thoughts, forni­cations, thefts, murders, adulteries, deeds of coveting and wickedness, as well as deceit, sensuality, envy, pride and foolish­ness. All these evil things proceed from within a,nd defile the man." These two passages show that according to Christ, no person is good, and that evil proceeds from within men and is not imposed on men from the outside. 
We need to work tirelessly to reform institutions which tempt and pressure individuals to act unjustly, but this is not enough. Those who follow Christ's word as truth must accept His assertions on the fallen nature of mankind. This revelation is extremely important to the approach we take in righting the wrongs we see in the world. On the subject of human nature, conservatives-not progressives -are truer to the words of Christ, and the strength of this view of human nature is buttressed by the horrors caused by utopian regimes which have ignored this truth at their peril. 
If men cannot be counted on to act just­ly, rearranging our society through gov­ernment, activity or revolution is at best a formal endorsement of previous individ­ual enlightenment, or at worst, danger­ous window dressing. As long as there are people who seek to commit injustice, those people will find a way to do so. This principle has been demonstrated in our nation's failed attempts at campaign finance reform, efforts to regulate the lobbying industry and the countless num­bers of communal settlements which have failed. 
Any lasting and true revolution must be one of the heart, a transformation within every human being which recognizes the inherent dignity which lies within each one of us as an image of our Creator. When men attempt to resolve the com­plex problems of the human condition with inhuman institutions and bureaucra­cies, the result is a progression of oppres­sive systems, each more brutal than the last. Any political or social revolution will fail if it is not preceded by a greater transformation of individual minds, with­out which the bold designs of leaders will collapse under the weight of fallen men. 
We are all called upon to participate in such a revolution in our own lives. Our efl'orts in fighting poverty, violence, racism and numerous other evils will only be effective when we take responsibility for the struggle in every action we take during every moment of the day. The opposite side of this coin is that all of us must work to lift each other up in the struggle against human weakness and temptation. When this is accomplished, enlightened business owners will treat workers with dignity, enlightened parents will refrain from domestic violence, and enlightened servicemen will act as agents of justice. Together, we can accomplish the radical change we all so desire by first altering our own behavior and then edifying our neighbors. The revolution begins with you. 
Jonathan Klinger is a senior manage­ment consulting major and the President ofthe Notre Dame College Republicans. He currently resides in Keenan Hall and enjoys Tolstoy and Matlock. He can be contacted via e-mail atjklinge@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports OBSERVER POLL Mary Kate Chris Khorey Malone Deirdre Krasula Katie Kohler Chris Wilson Are you voting in the upcoming Katie McDonnell Scene midterm elections? Viewpoint Analise Lipari Molly Kring 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Graphics Jarred Wafer at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

~-. 
,Submit aLetter to tbe Editor at 
1 www.ndsmcobserver.com
:::~ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"One who does less than he is able is a thief" 
Mahatma Ghandi Indian philosopher 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Tuesday, October 24, 2006 page 13 
Joining the team, fighting the global health crisis 
Editor's note: This is the first of3 columns calling for greater attention to the global health crisis as discussed in the academic forum earlier this semes­ter. The second will appear tomorrow. 
Few scenes are 
Matthew

more entertaining 
Barnes and 

than a little-league 
Sarah Epstein

soccer game. There is something funny about a large mob of Guest children chasing the Columnists ball around, each child vying for a chance to kick the ball. There are no positions and only a vague sense of a team. As they mature, chil­dren learn that there is more to the game than simply getting their kicks in. Team members must work together. Ultimately, the team shares both the joy of victory and the agony of defeat. These lessons are applicable even on a global scale. 
At the Notre Dame Forum "The Global Health Crisis: Forging Solutions, Effecting Change" held at the Joyce Center on Sept. 14, a panel discussed the dire conditions of global health. Panelists included Professor of Health Policy and Management at Columbia University and Director of the UN Millennium Project Jeffrey Sachs, native Ugandan and coor­dinator of clinical trials at Makerere University Miriam Laker Opwonya, and medical anthropologist and physician Paul Farmer, along with current and for­mer Notre Dame students. We felt that throughout the discussion, several prin­ciples emerged reminiscent of lessons learned on the soccer field. The pan­elists' primary message was one of teamwork on a global scale. They argued that wealthy nations share a moral imperative to play their part on an inter­national team. Rather than viewing the economy as a zero-sum competition where one country's advancement comes at another's expense, wealthy nations must recognize that aid to poor countries will eventually benefit everyone through the growth of larger global markets. 
All citizens, including students like us, have roles on the team, and should par­ticipate. Donations are desperately need­ed to save more than 40 million people who will suffer and die this year from tuberculosis, HIV and various treatable water-borne illnesses. These people are impoverished and unable to support themselves, and the underdeveloped nations in which they live cannot assist them either. Nevertheless, more affiuent individuals often fail to donate money, believing the excuse that their limited contributions cannot possibly elicit glob­al change. While a five dollar donation to charity may not seem very significant, it is enough to provide treatment for two adult malaria victims who would other­wise die. Children, who are even more vulnerable, cost less to treat than adults. The change from one individual's pock­ets could save two or more lives! If the entire Notre Dame community made similar donations, we could raise thou­sands of dollars, which could purchase medicines and other supplies that could directly save upwards of 20,000 lives in a single year. Clearly, a team effort can make quite an impact. 

Furthermore, our imperative is not merely to keep people from starving now, but to offer enough assistance to provide the foundation for future eco­nomic growth. To borrow from the imagery of Sachs, the wealthy nations of the world must help lesser developed nations onto the first rung of the ladder of ecological development before they will be able to begin pulling themselves upward. However, this process takes time, so we must act as soon as possible. 
Indeed, now is the time for Notre Dame students to join the team against global poverty. As representatives of the student body, the Council of Representatives and the remainder of our Student Government should organize this effort. We encourage our readers to let their representatives know that they support a campus-wide fundraiser for global health. More importantly, when the time comes, we implore our fellow students to donate generously. Even if you have no money to spare, your time supporting the fundraiser can be just as valuable. Everyone has individual talents to contribute to global efforts. In the meantime, opportunities exist to join and support student organizations with char­itable causes such as Circle K and Lead­NO. The Center for Social Concerns also provides opportunities for students to contribute their time and talents to char­itable efforts. If everyone cooperates and we combine our individual contributions, collectively we can and will make a dif­ference. Rally, sons and daughters of Notre Dame, against the global health crisis. 
The authors are biology graduate stu­dents participating in the new Global Linkages ofBiology. the Environment. and Society (GLOBES) program. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Ignorance surfaces in classroom 

On the last day of classes before break, I met my roommate in physics. She seemed distraught, not last-day-of-mid-terms distraught, but more I'm-not-sure-whether-to-laugh-or-cry distraught. She then recounted the events of her philosophy class that day. In a discussion on communism, my roommate made a contribution. She was then opposed by the next student who prefaced his comment by insulting her, stating that he would have expected such a simplistic view from an athlete. For my roommate, who is already economic in her contri­butions to discussions, this student's power trip effectively hushed her. It is unfortunate that not all Notre Dame students are as self-assured in discussion as the young man who silenced my roommate. I do not care what his point was exactly because his self-assurance was negated by his blatant ignorance. Clearly, this man was quite the inter-disciplinary scholar to have established such a correlation between physical ability and intellect -a correlation which he was unable to argue his point on communism without. I sincerely hope that this young man's preface is not one frequently faced by student­athletes, and I am disappointed by his arrogance. By insulting some of the most industrious students on campus to bolster his ego, he per­petuated his own futile attitude. There is no space for that type of atti­tude here. He should be appreciative of his victim's tact. 
Trish Hughes senior Pangborn Oct. 21 


Spirit aids in victory 
I have attended untold Irish home games over the years and had the pleasure of being at the recent UCLA game. More than any game I can recall, I was very impressed with the cheers emanating from the student section. At several critical junc­tures in the game, the noise starting from the northwest corner of the stands spread throughout the stadium and affected play on the field to Notre Dame's advantage. The student body is to be commended for its enthusiasm and for the team's positive reaction to it. Keep up the good work. Go Irish! 
Lou Ritten 
alumnus 
Class of 1982 
Oct. 23 
U-WIRE 


Homosexuality + GOP -­hypocrisy 
As the Mark Foley scandal continues to unfold, it would seem that this might be a step back for the gay rights movement in America. Not so fast. The Foley scandal-as gross and disturbing as it is -may Matt Stone in fact be a paradoxical step forward for the status of gays, University of especially within Republican Arizona ranks. Daily 
Of course, it does not seem Wildcat like it at first blush. Eight states are considering anti-gay marriage meas­ures in the upcoming election, including Arizona's notorious Proposition 107. Republican leaders continue to pander to a closed-minded base by bashing gays in advertisements. 
Newt Gingrich, former speaker of the house, even conflated homosexuality with pedophilia on national television, as if all gays are also pedophiles. According to Gingrich, the GOP failed to address Foley's misconduct years ago because they didn't want to be "accused of gay bashing." 
Needless to say, some straight people are pedophiles too, which must mean that all straight people find gratification in sex with children, right, Newt? 
But something else is afoot here. The Foley scandal may engender a witch-hunt within the Republican ranks, but behind the scenes, gay Republicans are finding new levels of acceptance. 
Take Andrew Sullivan. The well-known conser­vative columnist is openly gay. He recently wrote that the Republican leadership is "tolerant of gay people but they have to keep quiet about it because their base would go crazy ifthey ever express it." 
He continues: "They have this acute cognitive dissonance, which is a polite way of saying hypocrisy." 
A striking dichotomy is evident within the Republican Party. While certain Republican politicians have friends who are gay, support those friends, and indeed, are even comfortable with them (gasp!), to turn out the conservative vote-the so-called "values voters"-those same politicians must pander to a doltish stereotype about gays. This is not leadership; this is cow­ardice. 
Sullivan describes it as a GOP riding two horses by counting on gays "to staff and support" Republican candidates "while relying on gay­baiting" to turn out the conservative vote. The two horses won't ride in tandem forever, and the Republicans will have to pick which one is a bet­ter long-term strategy. Needless to say, Sullivan urges his fellow conservatives to get off the gay­baiting horse -quickly. 
But there are other fissures developing in the Republican ranks as well. While some Republicans privately have no qualms with homosexuality-evidently this includes Sen. Rick "Family Values" Santorum -other Republican politicians are still openly hostile toward gays. 
Sen. Sam Brownback of Kansas is holding up one of President Bush's judicial nominees, Janet Neff, because Neff once attended a commitment ceremony for two lesbian partners. Sen. James lnbofe of Oklahoma will not hire gays onto his staff, although some of his staffers have anony­mously admitted to being gay in the press. 
Bashing gays was an effective get-out-the-vote strategy in 2004, but it appears that such a strat­egy is now dividing the Republican Party in novel ways. 
The backlash against gay Republicans follow­ing the Foley scandal may be short-lived, but it is forcing Republicans to deal very publicly with a profound absurdity. Some GOP soul-searching is in order. The "closet-tolerant" Republican leader­ship (Vice President Dick Cheney's daughter is a die-hard conservative lesbian, after all) needs to voice a message of hope and openness to its fam­ily-values base and persuade the moralists on the right that gays are people too -and should be treated as such. 
Leadership is about doing things that may be unpopular but are right. A very public Republican acceptance of gays would be a laud­able first step. If the Foley scandal could engen­der that kind of change, an otherwise depressing affair might become the catalyst for real progress. 
This column originally appeared in the Oct. 23 edition ofthe Daily Wildcat, the daily publication at University ofArizona. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 14 
Tuesday, October 24, 2006 
MOVIE REVIEWS 

'Grudge 2' instills little fear in audiences 
By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Editor 
A good horror film is most simply judged by whether or not it achieves its ultimate goal of scaring the audience. The audience response should then consist of such words as "scary," "frightening" or "spooky." "Laughable," on the otbflr hand, should not be one of those words. 
Laughable is one of the few words to describe the travesty that is "The Grudge 2." 
The first mistake of the film is writer­director Takashi Shimizu's decision to incorporate three separate storylines into the movie. The first storyline is the conclu­sion to "The Grudge" 


(2004). After learning that her sister Karen The Grudge 2 ing flaw of this movie (Sarah Michelle Gellar) 
is that there is no plot, has been hospitalized, just these three story­Aubrey Davis (Amber lines that can only bn Tamblyn) goes to Tokyo called subplots. "The Director: Takashi Shimizu
at the behest of their Grudge 2" lacks a sin­
Writer: Takashi Shimizu
mother to bring her gle, unifying story home. The plot first Starring: Amber Tamblyn, Sarah that these three Michelle Cellar, Arielle Kebbel, 
raises questions at this would normally serve 
Jennifer Beals and Edison Chen
particular point -it to flesh out. This 
friend Eason (Edison Chen). 
The second Tokyo-based storyline follows the unpopular Allison (Arielle Kebbel, "John Tucker Must Die") who is studying at an international high school. On a dare, she accompanies two other girls to the house where the grudge originated. Consequently, her two companions, Vanessa (Teresa Palmer, "Wolf Creek") and Miyuki (Misako Uno), are systematically haunted and attacked by the little grudgn children. 
The third, and the most unnecessary and confusing, storyline is set far from Japan in Chicago. Trish (Jennifer Beals, "The L Word") moves in with her boyfriPnd and his two children. The parents begin acting strangely, and the son thinks that it's due to the weird neighboring girl that he sees at 
night in the hallway. 
The major and glar­
seems unlikely that Karen's absence would go unnoticed for the two years that have lapsed between "The Grudge 2" and its predecessor. 
Why was Karen's family only finding out about her situation now? The movie disre­gards this completely (as it disregards most logic in the film as a whole). Aubrey doesn't believe in the supernatural forces that are after her sister, until Karen dies shortly into the film. She spends the rest of the movie investigating in Tokyo with her journalist 
leaves the movie with a very disjointed and empty feel. The origi­nal movie, despite lacking a strong plot, was still unified by the single point of Karen discovering what was going on inside the house. 
This film has no sense of discovery -or even a point. It doesn't add to the original mythos of "The Grudge." Aside from one minor point, nothing new is learned to war­rant the creation of a whole new movie. 
Instead the film relies on cheap, non-

New 'Beginning' enlivens old horror series 
By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Editor 
"The Texas Chainsaw Massacre: The Beginning" keeps up the tradition of pre­vious "Chainsaw" films with its high quo­tient of slasher-flick techniques. Serving as an origin story for the Leatherface leg­end, 'The Beginning" is a good founda­tion for an off-kilter film series. 
The movie follows siblings Eric (Matthew Bomer, "Flightplan") and Dean (Taylor Handley, "The OC") who are trav­eling through Texas with their girlfriends Chrissie (Jordana Brewster, "The Fast and the Furious") and Bailey (Diora Baird, "Accepted") before the brothers ship off to Vietnam. Eric is returning to Vietnam for his second tour, with Dean supposedly joining him. Unbeknownst 

to Eric, however, The Texas Chainsaw great deal of social Dean is planning on and politieal com­
Massacre: The Beginning
running away to mentary in the film. Mexico with Bailey. 
Historically, horror When Dean tries to films have often burn his draft card been a reflection of in the backseat, the deeper societalDirector: Jonathan Liebesman
four of them get into fears. In the last few
Writer: Sheldon Turner 
a severe car crash. decades, however,
Starring: Matthew Bomer, Taylor 
Self-proclaimed the genre's sense of
Handley, Jordana Brewster, Diora Baird 
Sheriff Hoyt (R. Lee social commentary
and R. Lee Ermey
Ermey) takes Eric, Dean and Bailey back to the Hewitt house of horrors to become their first victims. In the mean­time, Chrissie makes the standard hor­ror-movie decision to locate and rescue her friends. 

The basic premise of the film is similar to that of most other slasher flicks -a group of young travelers are systemati­cally captun~d. tortured and killed -but there are some differences in the formula that stray from initial expectations. 
For starters, the protagonists are already facing horror in their own lives with the Vietnam War before entering a wholly different realm of horror. Secondly, even before Leatherface enters the picture, the teenagers are already placed in a frightening situation when they total their car and are then taken prisoner by the Sheriff. 
Additional creepiness is comes simply from knowing this is a prequel to the other "Chainsaw" flicks -in this film, the Hewitt family is just beginning their murderous careers, leaving the audienee to witness the transformation of the fam­ily from human to monster. 
Similar to the recent retelling of "The 
Hills Have Eyes" 
(2006), there is a 
has often been lost in the quest to be the goriest or scariest display. 
This film is once again joining the sens­es of horror and reflection together. Besides the conflicting feelings of the teenagers towards the Vietnam War, Sheriff Hoyt reflects on his time spent as a P.O.W. while he served in the Korean War. Like "The Hills Have Eyes," the frightening and highly predictable "scares." Shimizu, who also created the original Japanese "Ju-on" films, relies heavily on his now-cliched freaky-looking children. Unfortunately for Shimizu, his key ele­ments of the long-haired girl, blue screech­ing boy and dirty murky water have been overexposed to American ftlmgoers due to the rise in "J-horror" films, a genre of Asian horror movies like "The Ring" that have found new audiences through remakes made in the United States. 
Their parody counterparts in the last two "Scary Movie" installments also contribute to the audience's inability to take the film's conventions seriously. They've simply lost their ability in instill fright in the audience. 
"The Grudge 2" could still have been a redeemable movie even with Shimizu's tricks no longer eliciting screams from moviegoers. But that would have required having a plot at the core of the film. 
With no coherent storyline, and nothing in the film that comes remotely close to scary, there is quite simply no reason to endure the torture that constitutes "The Grudge 2." 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 


movie's villains aren't portrayed sympa­thetically, but there is attention paid to their initial plight as slaughtnrhouse workers who have lost both their jobs and their livelihood. 
Director Jonathan Liebesman ("Darkness Falls") does an excellent job of maintaining both a suspenseful atmos­phere and tight pacing throughout the lilm. The movie also returns to its roots by retaining the grimy and almost docu­mentary-like style of the original film. 
Brewster is successful as the strong­willed heroine who keeps fighting until the film's final moments. Bomer and Handley play the brothers well, and do a good job of demonstrating the inherent conflict of the Vietnam War. R. Lee Ermey arguably steals the show as the mean-spirited and funny Sheriff Hoyt. 
Because "The Beginning" is a prequel, the audience already knows that the Hewitts and Leatherface won't be defeat­ed. The big question of the film is the fate of Chrissie, the only uncaptured teenag­er, and Liebesman maintains the sus­penseful nature of her story for the film's entirety. 
With numerous genuinely frightening moments, "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre: The Beginning" is as good as a slasher film can get and a great fit for the Halloween horror season. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 

---------------------------------------------------------------, 

NSIDER 
O
THE Tuesday, October 24, 2006 BSERVER Notre Dame 20, UCLA 17 

Almost Bruined 
Samardzija's season-salvaging TD in final seconds propels Irish past UCLA 

ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer Irish receiver Jeff Samardzija races to the end zone, outrunning UCLA linebacker Christian Taylor (33) and safety Chris Horton (14) with 27 seconds remaining to lift Notre Dame to a 20-17 victory over the Bruins Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. 
downs. short with 2:20 left in the game. "Sometimes you get right on seven minutes of the half, goingBy CHRIS HINE The touchdown capped a After the failed fourth down, the fringe -right on the fringe 77 yards on 19 plays before sen­
Sports Wrirer 

three-play, 80-yard drive for Notre Dame called a timeout to where you sit there and you tell ior kicker Carl Gioia drilled a 20­
Notre Dame that began with 62 stop the clock after the change of your team and say, 'Hey, fellas, yard field goal to enter the locker 
Brady Quinn pumped once, seconds remaining in the game possession because of a recent we can go ahead and make this locker room trailing 14-10. rolled right, and threw to his and Notre Dame trailing 17-13 NCAA rule change. After runs by play,"' Weis said. '"Look, fellas, it's 14-10, we favorite receiver. In that without any tirneouts. UCLA tailback Chris Markey UCLA struck for their first haven't played our best foot­moment, Notre Dame once again On first down from the UCLA gained a total of three yards on points of the game early in the ball,"' Weis told his team at half­showed its flair for the dramatic. 20, Quinn found Samardzija the first two plays of the series, second quarter. Bruins wide time. '"The offense, you're kind Quinn's 45-yard touchdown pass along the right sideline for a gain Notre Dame used its last two receiver Marcus Everett's hauled of out there going through it, but to Jeff Samardzija with 27 sec­of 21 yards. The senior quarter­timeouts with 2:09 remaining. in a 54-yard touchdown recep­you're down four points."' onds remaining lifted the Irish back with nearly a half-dozen Facing third and seven, UCLA tion from sophomore quarter­Irish defensive tackle Trevor ( 6-1) to a 20-17 comeback victo­fourth-quarter comebacks in his elected to run the ball again. back Patrick Cowan to tie the Laws recovered Cowan's fum­ry over UCLA (4-3, 2-2 Pac 10) career then found Irish sopho­Notre Dame's defense held as score at 7. bled snap on the Bruin 29, but and kept Notre Dame's slim more David Grimes -who had a Travis Thomas brought down Everett fmished with six catch­Gioia's ensuing 48-yard field goal national title hopes alive. career-high eight catches for 79 Markey for a loss of two, setting es for 102 yards and the touch­attempt went wide right. He hit 
"I was about ready to throw yards -on the same side of the up fourth down. After alternating down. Cowan went 16-for-32 for his next attempt, a 33-yarder to 
when I saw a defender coming field for 14 more at the UCLA 45. delay of game and defensive 217 yards with two touchdowns cut the Bruin lead to 14-13, with 
that way, so I kind of gave a A play later, the comeback was holding penalties, Bruin punter and one interception. 1 :50 remaining in the third quar­
pump and tried to move them complete. Aaron Perez sailed a 59-yard The Bruins front seven stifled ter. 
around," Quinn said. "I moved "Unfortunately for us, we had punt into the end zone to setup Walker and pressured Quinn. On the second play of the 
out of the pocket, and I found a a chance to win it, we were there the game-winning drive. Led by defensive ends Justin game, Irish junior tailback 
window to Jeff, and he did the all the way to the final minute "We had to execute better Hickman (three sacks) and Bruce Darius Walker fumbled -his 
rest." and didn't fmd a way to finish," today," said Markey, who rushed Davis (two sacks), UCLA held first in 405 touches -and Bruin 
Quinn finished 27 -for-45 with UCLA coach Karl Dorrell said. for 32 yards on 19 carries. "The Notre Dame to just 131 yards of linebacker Aaron Whittington 
304 yards and two touchdowns. "That's what it comes down to. game is 60 minutes long and we total offense in the first half. recovered on the Irish 38. Six 
Samardzija caught Quinn's pass Didn't find a way to finish." played for just over 59 minutes. Later in the second quarter, plays later, UCLA kicker Justin 
and evaded UCLA safety Dennis But Notre Dame's final drive And that's not good enough." Cowan found William Snead, a Medlock came on for a 42-yard 
Keyes' attempt to bring him wasn't the first chance the Irish Notre Dame took a 7-0 lead on defensive end turned tight end, field goal. Medlock's kick split 
down on the 20 yard-line on his had to take the lead. a two-yard touchdown pass from for his first career reception -the uprights, but UCLA had 
way to the end zone. With 3:49 remaining in the Quinn to Samardzija that fin­and first touchdown -to take a jumped the snap. Medlock's 47­
"You can't have any doubts fourth quarter, Notre Dame had ished off a seven-play, 44-yard 14-7 lead. Snead broke tackle yard attempt after the penalty 
[about staying on your feet] or the ball on its own 28. After get­drive. The key play of the series attempts by Irish defensive backs sailed wide right, a miss that 
else they'll go down," Samardzija ting two first downs, the Irish was when Quinn found tight end Chinedum Ndukwe and Ray loomed large. 
said. faced a fourth and one, but the John Carlson for a 26-yard gain Herring on his way to a 36-yard 
Samardzija had eight catches Bruins defensive line stuffed on a play-action pass on fourth­touchdown reception. Contact Chris Hine at 
for 118 yards and two touch-Quinn's quarterback keeper and-one from the Bruin 35. Notre Dame ate up the last chine@nd.edu 
player of the game 

Jeff Sarriardzija 

The senior receiver caught eight balls for I I 8 yards and two touch­downs, including the game-winning 45-yard score. 
stat of the game 
1 

The number ofyards the Irish defense allowed on three carries, forcing the Bruins to punt with one minute left in the game. 
play of the game 

Jeff Samardzija's touchdown 
The receiver caught the ball at the 29­yard line, turned up the sideline and outsprinted the UaA defense for the decisive score. 
quote of the game 
"You prefer for your heart not to be doing zt tfiat way, but its reallyuplifting to be able to win a game in the last minute." 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, October 24, 2006 

report card 
A­
D 
8+ 


0­A A 

D+ball, managing a 39-yard average with a couple shanks. Gioia missed a 48-yard field goal, and the return men fuiled to break the first line ofkickoffand punt coverage. 
c 
coaching: Despite an intense week of practices, Weis' offense came out slug­gish again. Minter's aggressive approach 
helped the defense turn out its best per­formance of the year. 
overall: Notre Dame's 
defense kept the Irish close 
enough to summon late­
2.56 

game offensive heroics in a finish for the ages. 
adding up the numbers 
Charlie Weis' record at Notre Dame­the best start by an Irish head coach 
15-4
since Ara Parseghian started 16-3. 

22 
Maurice Crum, Joe Brockington and Travis Thomas combined for the most tackles 
this year by the linebacking unit. 
Yards covered by Marcus Everett's touchdown catch, the longest TO 
54
grab by a Bruin receiver this year. 

159:59 The time from Notre Dame's 
last turnover Sept. 23 against Michigan State to Darius Walker's first-quarter fumble. 
Interceptions by Terraillambert in the second 
1 
quarter, the third of his career. 

42 
For the third time this year Notre Dame was held to less than 50 rushing yards. 
Sacks recorded by the Bruins -the most the 
5 
Irish have allowed this year. 

Touches between Walker's last fumble Sept. 10, 2005 against Michigan. 
quarterbacks: The offense struggled to find a rhythm, but Quinn found his targets with the game on the line. His 345-yard performance and last-minute poise showed why he is a Heisman candidate. 
running backs: Though he had few holes, Walker's 2.5 average kept the Irish 
offense one-dimensional. His consistent 
blitz pickup against bigger defenders 
helped protect Quinn. 

receivers: Samardzija's game-winning 45-yard touchdown was the play of the day. Grimes turned out a career game with eight catches, including a diving grab to keep the last drive alive. 
offensive line: The Irish offense mus­tered just 41 rushing yards and the line allowed five sacks. Morton's lung­ing block enabled Quinn to hit Samardzija to start the fmal drive. 
defensive line: Abiamiri and Landri each had a sack as the defense forced 10 quarterback hurries. The unit controlled the line of scrimmage, holding the Bruins to 26 rushing yards-including a late three and out on the ground. 
linebackers: The starting three lineback­ers were the team's top three tacklers for the first time all year, stifling the UClA running game. Crum forced a critical third-down sack late in the game. 
defensive backs: The secondary once 
again gave up two big plays for touch­
downs. During the rest of the game, the 
Irish turned in a solid performance, led 
by Lambert's well-played first-half interception. 
special teams: Price struggled punting the 

Charlie Weis isn't a fan of style points. 
He places no high value on blowout victories, running up the score and embarrassing oppo­nents. 
Good thing. Because he did­n't even have to think about any of those Saturday as Notre Dame won a game in which a team with much less talent -and a backup · quarterback ­played better than the Irish. 
"Good teams win games like that," Weis said. "Good teams at the end of the game somehow, good teams make a play at the end of the game to win." 
In those two sentences, Weis described precisely what's wrong with Notre Dame right now. It's a good team, not a great one. The offense is sputtering, the defense is as vulnerable as ever to big plays and the team cannot-or at least has not -soundly defeated teams it should. 
And for a squad that came into the year ranked in the top-3 in most polls and top-S in all others, being a good team and barely beating lesser opponents should not be enough. 
"Let me tell you something," Weis said. ''I'm not going to feel miserable about this win, I prom­ise you. You want to be miserable, fine. I'm going to be happy." 
Weis can be happy about the win, but Notre Dame's performances this year should give him pause. 
But there's a lot of room for hope and happiness. 
The way the team is playing now might be enough to win out until the Irish face a questionable USC team Nov. 25. It might be enough 

Ken Fowler 
Sports Editor 

to get the Irish into a BCS bowl. It might even be enough for Notre Dame to beat the Trojans. 
Notre Dame played a bad game offensively for more than three and a half quarters, yet in the final 62 seconds showed why so many peo­ple are afraid of its offense. The Irish demonstrated a resiliency and belief in their ability to come back in the toughest of situations. Most of all, they sent a message to the world: Don't count us out just yet. 
Notre Dame has put itself in a position where, with a tremendous amount of help, it may be able to sneak its way to the BCS title game. Some pundits are 
There's a reason so
quick to say such comebacks against luck would be tanta­many people -on the mediocre mount to finding campus and on air -Spartans and Bruins fool's gold -the in the background,
are upset with Notre 
Irish surely would Weis focused on the get crushed against Dame's performance bright side. the best team in the so far. They should be "Sign me up," he 
nation. said. "You want to
playing better than 
Not so fast my give me a couple friend, as the inim­this! more of those, I'll failed to dominate all but one opponent. The Irish dismantled now-unranked Penn State at home but then suffered one of the worst home losses -to the nemesis Wolverines -since the end of the Boltz years. Notre Dame couldn't find enough motivation to hang with a regional rival, and then the Irish struggled to get off the ground against Michigan State, Purdue, Stanford and, now, UCLA. 
But with four powder (blue) puffs in the firing line before the battle in the Coliseum, don't yet discount the possibility of seeing four wins by four touchdowns or more 
between now and 
Thanksgiving. 
And with dramatic 

itable Lee Corso would say. Weis and Co. have their own opinions. 
There's a reason so many people -on campus and on air -are upset with Notre Dame's perform­ance so far. They should be better than this! That's why Notre Dame keeps bouncing around in the polls. 
With a rare talent at quarter­back, an offensive line with four seniors (though it didn't show Saturday), another four on the defensive line and two more in the secondary, how much more experi­ence could a team have? 
Ordinarily, a 6-1 record and top­10 ranking should merit a content fan base and student body. Ordinarily, a team doesn't have five possible first-round picks. 
Notre Dame has the personnel to be a dominating team, yet has take them." 
Brady Quinn and 

Jeff Samardzija gave Charlie Weis that win this time. And those two, despite their imposing numbers already this year, still have some room above their heads before they hit their performance ceilings. 
With his eye black dripping from his face after the win, Quinn put his head down on Irish quarter­back coach Pete Vaas' shoulder. 
"Heck of a game," Vaas said. Hopefully that will be the last one that nerve-racking for a while. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd. edu 
Tuesday, October 24, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Sarnardzija keeps cool, saves game 
Laws rubs receiver's calves for luck; Weis calls play product ofpreparation 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 

As UCLA punter Aaron Perez booted 
his two booming kicks with just over a 
minute remaining in the game, Notre 
Dame defensive tackle Trevor Laws was 
on the sideline, rubbing down the calves 
of Irish receiver Jeff Samardzija. 

"Just trying to keep it loose," 
Samardzija said. "Me and Trevor are 
pretty loose guys out there. You won't 
see us yelling or anything too much. 
They came up with a good, little defen­
sive stop. And I figured I'd use a little 
luck and see if he could rub up my 
calves a little bit before I went out 
there." 

Samardzija found that luck and put 
the massage to good use, contorting his 
long legs around Bruins safety Dennis 
Keyes and galloping into the end zone 
for the game-winning score. 

"(Samardzija] knows he owes me something for that," Laws quipped. "I swear of it. I rubbed those calves down and told him to [do it]." Irish receiver Jeff Samardzija jumps across the goal line with 27 seconds left 
But for Irish coach Charlie Weis, Notre for the game-winning score. 
Dame's final drive had nothing to do 
with luck or massages; it was all about they did all day, Brady Quinn rolled seconds to beat Stanford and qualify for 
preparation. right and found Samardzija on the side­a BCS bowl. 
"I think that all of the circumstances line. After hitting Irish wide out David Against Michigan State this season, 
that took place from that play to the Grimes on the next play, Quinn once Samardzija caught and ran with Brady 
game ended, OK, were players prepared again found Samardzija. The 6-foot-5 Quinn's 43-yard pass that began Notre 
to win," Weis said. senior caught the ball on the UCLA 25 Dame's 17-point, fourth-quarter come­
Weis had the drive so planned out that and added another chapter into Irish back. 
he was even thinking about the hash­lore with his scamper to the goal line. "You've got to make plays when you 
mark on which the ref-"It was just a calm, have a chance," Samardzija said. "You 
erees would spot the cool and collected men­don't know how it's going to come or 
ball after a punt. With "You've got to make tality," Samardzija said. when it's going to come, but you've got 
the ball sitting on the "Obviously, there was a to take advantage of it." 
plays when you have a
right side of the of the sense of urgency because Weis said those big plays come from
chance. You don't know 
20 yard line, Weis got it we didn't have much the composure the Irish carry with them just where he wanted how it's going to come time left, but we went when their backs are up against the it. out there with our heads wall. He said the hours of two-minute
or when it's going to 
"It was important to on straight, and that's drills in summer camp and the constant 
come, but you've got to
me first of all to figure what you've got to do." focus on time management during the out whether or not the take advantage ofit., That mentality was course of the season-and the knowl­ball is going to be in nothing new for the Irish edge that they have succeeded in tight the middle of the field, offense -especially spots before -instill a confidence in the
Jeff Samardzija 
the left half the right Quinn and Samardzija, players.
Irish receiver
half," he said. "The who have hooked up on "I think that this team is a very 
first couple of calls we a slew of other comeback mature team that didn't lose their com­
had were the calls that drives before. posure," Weis said. "As much as we 
I kind of drew up on the sideline before Against USC last season, Samardzija compliment how UCLA played, I'm very 
we got the ball back, so it just happened caught passes of 18 and 14 yards to proud of how the [Notre Dame players] 
the way you diagramed it." start Notre Dame's go-ahead drive with ended this game today and you've got to 
From there, Weis said, it was just less than five minutes left. Six weeks give them credit for that." 
"players making plays." later, he hauled in throws of 30 and 1 7 
With the Bruins applying pressure as yards as the Irish went 80 yards in 50 Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu 

Quinn's 4th-down pass goes for 10,000 
West, Samardzija handle punt return duties; Wooden recovers from lingering concussion 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sporrs Editor 
Brady Quinn's 25-yard completion on fourth-and­one to tight end John Carlson in the first quarter Saturday gave him exactly 10,000 passing yards for his colle­giate career. Quinn became the 32nd quarterback in Division 1-A history to reach that milestone. 
Third time Irish charm 
Saturday's comeback marked the third time in school history that the Irish scored a go-ahead touch­down with less than 30 sec­onds remaining. 
The first time was in the 1979 Cotton Bowl when Joe Montana's touchdown pass to Kris Haines lifted Notre Dame to a 35-34 victory over Houston. 
The second time came in the "Snow Bowl" against 

Penn State in 1992. Rick Mirer threw a three-yard TO to Jerome Bettis to pull the Irish within one. Mirer then found Reggie Brooks in the corner of the end zone on a two-point conversion to give the Irish a 17-16 win. 
Lambert earns starting nod 
Charlie Weis said Ambrose Wooden had fully recovered from a concussion suffered against Michigan before the game, but junior Terrail Lambert started at the field cornerback position. Lambert intercepted UCLA quarterback Patrick Cowan in the first quarter for his third interception of the sea­son. 
"After he made that pick they pretty much stopped going over there," Irish safe­ty Tom Zbikowski said. 
Zbikowski absent on returns 
Zbikowski did not return punts for the second straight game. Jeff Samardzija and George West split return duties on Saturday. Zbikowski has not returned a punt since suffering an injury to his shoulder against Purdue. 
"I wasn't going to risk him," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "Zbikowski is our punt returner. I just didn't want to waste him on a punt return." 
Fourth down dominance 
Notre Dame went 4-for-5 on fourth down conversions Saturday. On the season, the Irish are 13-for-17, while the defense has stopped 7 -of-1 0 fourth down attempts by Irish opponents. 
Healthy Thomas returns 
Linebacker Joe Brockington still saw significant time in Saturday's game even though a healthy Travis Thomas returned to the lineup. 
"Travis was ready to come back and Joe played really well the last couple of games," Weis said. "So we just didn't feel that taking Joe out of the lineup was the right thing to do, and we did­n't feel that keeping Travis out of the lineup was the right thing to do. We just felt that we [should play] both of them." 
Hornung honored at game 
Notre Dame honored 1956 Heisman Trophy winner Paul Hornung before the game. Hornung flipped the coin at the beginning of Saturday's game. UCLA won the coin toss and deferred the option to the second half. Notre Dame received, and the Bruins defended the north end zone. Notre Dame is now 5-2 this season in coin flips, but has received the ball to start each game. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
•

scoring summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 

UCLA  0  14  o  3  17  
Notre Dame  7  3  3  7  20  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 7, UCLA 0 Jeff Samardzija 2-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 4:04 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 7 plays, 44 yards, 3:40 elapsed 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 7, UCLA 7 Marcus Everett 54-yard reception from Patrick Cowan with 13:42 remaining. (Medlock kick) Drive: 10 plays, 87 yards, 3:31 elapsed 
Notre Dame 7, UCLA 14 William Snead 36-yard reception from Cowan with 7:18 remaining. (Medlock kick) Drive: 3 plays, 39 yards, 1:01 elapsed 
Notre Dame 10, UCLA 14 Carl Gioia 20-yard field goal with 0:00 remain­ing. Drive: 19 plays, 77 yards, 7:18 elapsed 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 13, UCLA 14 Gioia 33-yard field goal with 1:50 remaining. Drive: 14 plays, 60 yards, 6:55 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 13, UCLA 17 Justin Medlock 29-yard field goal with 7:19 remaining. Drive: 11 plays, 48 yards, 4:22 elapsed 
Notre Dame 20, UCLA 17 Jeff Samardzija 45-yard reception from Quinn with 0:27 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 3 plays, 80 yards, 0:35 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards rushing yards passing yards 



return yards ~--__-J_o-_6__,1 
-

time of possession 
-~···
~ 



35-41 rushes-yards 28-26 27-45-0 comp-att-int 16-32-1 7-273 punts-yards 6-279 1-1 fumbles-lost 1-1 6-50 penalties-yards 8-55 20 first downs 12 
passing 

Quinn 27-45-0 Cowan 16-32-1 
rushing 

Walker 21-53 Markey 19-32 Quinn 14--13 Bell 2-9 
receiving 

Samardzija Grimes Carlson Walker  8-118 8-79 4-57 4-22  Everett Taylor Markey Snead  6-102 3-39 2-8 1-36  
McKnight  3-28  Ketchum  1-13  
tackles  

Crum  8  Taylor  10  
Thomas, T.  7  Keyes  8  
Brockington  7  Hickman  8  
Lambert  6  Horton  7  
Landri  5  Verner  6  
Laws  4  Davis  5  
Abiamiri  4  McNeal  4  
Richardson  4  Brown, K.  4  
Zbikowski  4  Carter  4  
Ndukwe  4  Van  3  
Frome  3  Brown, T.  3  
Price 6-236 Perez 6-279 


punting 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, October 24, 2006 

COMEBACK KIDS 
Notre Dame clawed from behind to steal a 20-17 victory from UCLA Saturday when Quinn found 
Samardzija in the game's waning seconds. Quinn finished 27 -for-45 for 345 yards with two touchdowns, both to Samardzija. The Irish 
defense allowed only 243 yards -its lowest total this season-and forced a three-and-out Bruin punt in the last minutes to set up the 
final Irish charge. 


Photos by ALLISON AMBROSE AND FRANCESCA SETA!The Observer Top left, Bruin receiver Marcus Everett hauls in a pass before racing for a touchdown. Top right, Irish cornerback Terrail Lambert breaks up a pass in the end zone. Center, Notre Dame linebacker Travis Thomas tackles UCLA running back Chris Markey (28) for a loss. Bottom right, Notre Dame receiver David Grimes leaps for a first-down catch. Bottom left, Irish linebacker Maurice Crum celebrates a defensive stop. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, October 24, 2006 
page 15 
MOVIE REVIEWS 

Unfunny satire overwhelms new comedy 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Scene Editor 

"Man of the Year" is a film that starts out promisingly, but gradually loses steam and ends as an unsatisfying mish­mash of aborted ideas and unfulfilled potential. Failing to take a real stab at the American political system and its farcical nature, "Man of the Year" instead gets lost over the course of its running time, pushing the real issues out of the way in favor of traditional llollywood trappings. 
Tom Dobbs (Robin Williams) is the host of a late-night comedy news pro­gram (not unlike "The Daily Show" or "The Colbert Report") who, on a whim, decides to run for president. Helped by both his manager Jack Mencken (Christopher Walken) and his aide Eddie Langston (comedian Lewis Black), he sets off to run his 
recalled in time for the election. 
Unfortunately, the second half of the film gets bogged down in this heavy­handed plotting. There's a romance, there's some action, there's a conspira­cy, the typical Hollywood stuff. This wouldn't be so problematic if the char­acters had been developed more fully or if the plotting itself weren't so laugh­able. 
"Man of the Year" loses focus as it pro­gresses, and while it never completely derails, its departure from its original premise detracts from any possibility of success. Despite its full 115-minute run­ning time, "Man of the Year" feels underdeveloped --the filmmakers clearly didn't trust its single premise to carry the film over two hours, and instead padded it with unnecessary plot­ting. 
The acting is problematic. Strangely enough, the entirety of the cast is com­prised of actors 

campaign. The cam­whose personality
Man of the Year 
paign scenes are the 
quirks define them best and most effec­--Williams, Gold­tive in the film, as blum and Walken, Dobbs continually among others. None mocks the circus-like of the actors seem toDirector: Barry Levinson 
nature of running for play actual charac­
Writer: Barry Levinson 
office. ters (with the excep­
Starring: Robin Williams, Jeff 
Meanwhile, com­tion of Walken, who
Goldblum, Lewis Black, Christopher 
puter programmer seems somewhat
Walken and Laura Linney 
Eleanor Green (Laura Linney) discovers a bug in the new voting computers, which means that Dobbs is guaranteed to win despite the actual election results. 
Her employer, Alan Stewart (Jeff Goldblum), decides it would be better to drug or kill her than to lose the revenue from the new system, which can't be 
detached from his 
role). but rather seem to play themselves playing charac­ters. 
Black has proven time and again that he's simply not an actor, and though he tries to stay under control here, his stand-up tendencies and sensibilities show through. Both he and Linney are mired in histrionics, which gives parts of the film a more frantic feel than neces­sary. In a strange twist of fate, Williams is really the only actor who holds him­self in check, making Dobbs surprisingly subdued. 
"Man of the Year" is the kind of film that would work better as a mockumen­tary. It's an interesting concept, but the execution is so run-of-the-mill and its sensibilities so mixed that the picture ultimately falls flat. It feels as if director Barry Levinson doesn't trust his audi­ence, which leads to a rather uninterest­ing and, worst of all, unfunny picture. 
The best comedies are pointed satires, which is part of what makes them so appealing --while "Man of the Year" claims to be a topical comedy, it's nei­ther topical enough nor comic enough. There's not a single memorable joke, gag or line in the entire film. It's not that "Man of the Year" goes for cheap laugh, but that it goes for no laughs at all, and in that in succeeds. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
Opulent 'Marie Antoinette' fails to connect 
By LAURA MILLER 
Scene Critic 

"Marie Antoinette," written and direct­ed by Sofia Coppola, is both a success and failure at once. It is absolutely heart­wrenching to watch --and not because of the plot line. When Kirsten Dunst bursts onto the screen, she completely embodies the decadence and sensuality of the former queen of France. 
As the minutes tick by, however, and the film continues to move at the pace of Ferris Bueller's history teacher, a gut­wrenching sadness remains. How can a movie with such marvelous music, cos­tumes and casting fail to be moving? 
The problem is that the plot line does not progress very quickly. There is some­thing to be said for slowly taking in the artistic beauty of a 
life. 

A few minor adjustments in the telling were made, but only to simplify the story, making it more accessible for audiences with little knowledge of eighteenth-cen­tury French politics. 
Dunst was excellent as Marie Antoinette --one of the more redeeming aspects of the film. Not only does she seem to relish playing the spoiled aristo­crat, but she wins the audience's sympa­thy. 
This is a significant accomplishment given the mixed reports on the historical character of Marie Antoinette. There were few familiar faces in the cast --the acting was good on the whole, but the majority of roles weren't very demand­ing. 
The varied soundtrack is by far one of the most interesting aspects of the film. It blends more famil­
film, but the paceing Marie Antoinette iar modern music, of the film resembles 
such as Bow Wow crawling on the floor Wow's "I Want of the Louvre so as Candy," with classical not to miss the style tracks like "Opus 23." 
of the parquet tiles. Director: Sofia Coppola The modern music The film's striking­Writer: Sofia Coppola does not take away ly powerful finale Starring: Kirsten Dunst, Judy Davis, from the more classi­proves frustrating Rip Torn, Shirley Henderson, Molly cal aspects of the film, for the audience, as nor does the classical
Shannon and Jason Schwartzman 
its emotional strength acts as an unfortunate reminder that the entirety of "Marie Antoinette" could have been well written and, unfortunately, was not. 
Despite these failings, "Marie Antoinette" is quite historically accurate. Many of the images seen in the movies are replicas of real artifacts, paintings and buildings from Marie Antoinette's music bore any pop­
culture-savvy viewer. Both genres are combined with cine­matographically unique imagery, making these sequences enjoyable to watch. 
The costumes undoubtedly add to the beauty created by the music and cine­matography. Marie Antoinette's cos­tumes are incredibly ornate and vast in number, a fitting tribute to the legend of the historical figure herself. 

The other costumes are equally beauti­ful, contributing to an aura of over­whelming wealth most typical of European royalty. 
The only downside to such fantastic costuming is that it is frequently distraet­ing, seemingly apparently to even the director. The film loses its emotional power due to the overwhelming empha­sis on Marie's attire. 
Dialogue frequently becomes obsolete, with the film devolving into shot after shot of shoes, dresses and textiles. While this film certainly is up to Academy Award standards for costume design, it seems that the only reason for the movie's creation was to win this sort of acclaim. 
While the beginning of the film drags due to this obsession with costuming, the end of the film is beautiful, leaving audi­ences with a feeling of validation for see­ing the entire picture. 
It is a notable flaw, however, that Coppola's film lacks the ability to draw any significant amount of emotional power until the last 30 minutes. Sadly, "Marie Antoinette" could have easily been shortened to an hour without losing any ofits dramatic aspects. 
Contact Laura Miller at lmiller8@nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, October 24, 2006 
NHL 

Toskala continues to show strong from the net 
Oilers triumph over Coyotes with Ales Hemsky and Petr Sykora in lineup; Turco has 33 saves in Dallas win 
Associated Press stopped. Matt Carle picked up 
the rebound and Leclaire left the 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -The net to cut down his angle. With hottest goaltender to start the Leclaire unable to get back, NHL season is also a guy who Bernier was on the doorstep was among the hottest at the when he got the puck with an end of last season. unguarded net in front of him. 
Vesa Toskala ran his winning San Jose defenseman Josh streak to 12 games with his fifth Gorges was tripped while career shutout in the San Jose swooping in on the Columbus Sharks' 3-0 victory over the goal by defenseman Ron Hainsey Columbus Blue Jackets on early in the second period. Monday night. Gorges slid hard into the corner 
"A shutout is nice, but the boards on his left shoulder and most important thing is to get needed assistance getting off the those two points," Toskala said. ice, although he later returned. 
Steve Bernier, Jonathan Not long after that, the Sharks Cheechoo and Marcel Goc each put the game out of reach with had goals for the Sharks. two quick goals. 
Toskala is 5-0-0 this season First Cheechoo notched his while allowing just under two fifth goal, putting a power-play goals a game with a .926 save shot just inside the back post at percentage. The 12-game win­the 3:15 mark after setup passes ning streak is the longest in from Joe Thornton and Patrick Sharks history. He has also won Marleau. his last eight starts on the road. "One of the keys early on was 
"I feel comfortable on the ice," getting the puck deep and put­Toskala said. "It always feels ting pressure on their defense, good after you get a couple of allowing us to get some good saves. I saw the puck well. chances," Cheechoo said. "When Our defensemen blocked so the puck's in deep, it's hard for many shots, and that really them. Our defense did a great helps a goalie a lot." job of standing up to them and 
Toskala had plenty of help, but protecting the front of the net." was solid when Columbus did him in camp and he just contin­night. We keep doing the same Stars aren't complaining. get off a shot. Oilers 5, Coyotes 2 ues to get more impressive," thing." Mike Modano scored the deci­
"We played good team defense Following a dominant per­said MacTavish. "I don't know The Oilers jumped out to a 2-0 sive goal and Marty Turco had all the way around," defenseman formance Monday night, the that we have a player that thinks start 12 minutes into the first 33 saves as the Stars beat the Scott Hannan said. "When we Edmonton Oilers' new line of the game positionally as well he period, scoring two goals in 59 Vancouver Canucks Monday needed him, Ves was there to Ales Hemsky, Petr Sykora and does right now. He checks and seconds. night to give Dallas its best start stop it." Patrick Thoresen has likely all those things. lie thinks the Torres beat Phoenix goal­in franchise history. 
Columbus has lost four consec­earned an extended run. game well offensively and has tender Curtis Joseph with an "No matter what we do some­utive games while being Sykora had a goal and three really meshed in with (Hemsky), easy tap-in after a perfect cross­times, we look like the Keystone outscored 17-5. assists, Hemsky and Thoresen who was spectacular tonight, as ice pass from Thoresen. A Kops out there," Tippett said. 
"San Jose is a good hockey chipped in three-point perform­was (Sykora)." minute later, and with the Oilers "But luckily we did enough to team, but there is no reason for ances and the Oilers downed the Thoresen, just the fifth player on the power play, Stoll ripped a win." that to happen to us," Blue slumping Phoenix Coyotes. from Norway to play in the NHL, slap shot from the point past Modano, who had a goal nulli­Jackets coach Gerard Gallant Shawn Horcoff and Jarrett is just glad to be getting a shot. Joseph for his first goal of the fied earlier, scored at 8:33 of the said. "They made us look bad Stoll each added their first goal "It's such a bonus for me to season. third when Dallas had a 5-on-3 out there. They embarrassed of the season for the Oilers (6-2-create points right now," he said. Early in the second period advantage. He scooped up a us." 0). "Every time I am out there I'm llorcoff blasted in a sl;tp shot off rebound off a shot from Eric 
The Sharks were 2-for-8 on Sykora said the line, which just trying to work hard and to the post give Edmonton a 3-0 Lindros and beat Vancouver's the power play while Columbus was retooled to give Norwegian do my job on thfl line. I'm just lead. Roberto Luongo. Niklas Hagman failed to score on seven chances rookie Thoresen a more promi­trying to work hard to make Phoenix finally put one past scored the Stars' first goal 2:24 with a man-advantage. nent role after a strong start, is room for I-Iemsky and Sykora Oilers goaltender Dwayne into the game. 
"It (defense) was really good, starting to mesh. because they are two of the most Roloson four minutes later as Dallas (8-1-0) topped the mark in particular our penalty­"Everybody is skating and skilled guys in the league." Ladislav Nagy hit Roenick with a it set in 1971 when the franchise killing," Sharks coach Ron making plays and looking for Jeremy Roenick and Mike pass as he charged the net. was in Minneapolis. It was 7-1-1 Wilson said. "We limited their each other out there and that is Comrie scored for the Coyotes Roenick's first of the year broke that season. opportunities and we might why we have had success. It's (2-7 -0), who have lost six of their a string of 147:50 without a goal "It doesn't feel like we're run­actually have had more opportu­why the puck is going in for us," last seven and are off to their for the Coyotes. ning over teams," Turco said. nities killing penalties than they said Sykora, who leads the Oilers worst start since moving to The Coyotes pulled within one "But we're coming out on top in did on their power play." with 13 points. "Right now we Phoenix from Winnipeg for the on a second-period power play the end, and that's all that mat­
Toskala, who stopped 23 shots, are getting our chances and we 1996-97 season. when Comrie batted a puck ters." had all the support he needed are scoring on them. Patrick is "We need to ... win, however through Roloson's legs during a The Stars have played six of just 2 1/2 minutes in. making some great plays out we do it," said Roenick. "We're scramble in front of the net. their first nine games on the 
On the power play after Jason there right now." not going to do it sitting in the Edmonton went up 4-2 in the road, and this was their third Chimera was called for holding, Edmonton head coach Craig penalty box all night. We'rp, the third when Sykora blasted his contest in four nights. the Sharks surrounded MacTavish also praised most undisciplined team in the sixth goal past Joseph. Dallas struggled to muster a Columbus goaltender Pascal Thoresen, who doubled his sea­league and it has to stop. It's rhythm through two periods. Leclaire. Bernier controlled the son point total and has looked embarrassing. Stars 2, Canucks 1 The Stars took just 12 shots on puck while skating behind the good since replacing Raffi Torres "We're killing our goaltenders Dallas coach Dave Tippett goal through two periods, and net and centered it to Milan on the Line. with barrages of shots because knows they're not the prettiest went without a shot in the first Michalek, whose shot was "I was super impressed with we are killing penalties all ... nine games he's seen. But the 14 minutes of the second. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 J.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid.
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 Home for Football weekends. 3 FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TICK-Spring Break 2007 Celebration. 2-6 Bedrooms BR,Full Bsement, Walking distance ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232-20th Anniversary w/Sun Splash WANTED FoR RENT www.NDstudentrentals.com to ND. 631-766-7637. 2378. Tours. Free trip on every 12 before 
Nov. 1. Free Meals & Parties, FALL WORK $15.50 base-appt. 2 rooms in private home w/separate Rooms for rent for football week-Hottest Deals Ever. Group Flexible schedules, No exp. need-entrance for football weekends. ends. Close to campus. Call 574-Discounts on 6 or more. Hottest
TICKETS PERSONAL
ed, Customer sales/service, condi-Shared bath. Close to NO. 243-0658. Spring Break Destinations. 
lions apply, All ages 17+, Call Today 574-259-8603. 1-800-426-7710. 574-273-3835. ROOMS FOR RENT for NO WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. www.sunsplashtours.com BLUE & GOLD HOMES, games,etc. Visit gardenviewbe-251-1570 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
FoR SALE 

off-campus homes & weekend dandbreakfast.com or call574-243-Do not go it alone. All 50 states are listed across the rentals. Bluegoldrentals.com 0392. Special rates available. WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. If you or someone you love needs top of the Lincoln Memorial on the TOP DOLLAR PAID. confidential support or assistance, back of the $5 bill. 
3-4 bdrm home, 1.5 BA, 2 mi. N of  45 minutes from Notre Dame  House Available for 07-08 Year.  NOBODY WILL PAY MORE.  please call  
NO. 2-stall garage. 41ots.$101,000.  Stadium. $125.00/night.  Close to Campus. Just Renovated  57 4-288-2726.  Sr. Sue Dunn, OP  Wilma Flinestone's maiden name  
52420 Forestbrook.  Year round cabins sleep six.  to Brand New Condition.  At 1-7819.  was Wilma Slaghoopal, and Betty  
Call Terry 574-289-5630 or Ron  Call Lumberjack  Open to groups of 9-11 Students.  FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232­ For more information, see our bi­ Rubble's Maiden name was Betty  
277-4122.  Resort 269-646-2181.  Contact MacSwain@gmail.com  0964  weekly ad in The Observer.  Jean Mcbricker.  

OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, October 24, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 17 

..... ~l:$~=:~:::·: :·:·: .... 


NFL 
NCAA 




team record points previous. 
1 Ohio State 8·0 1&23· 1 2 Michigan 8·0 1533 2: 3 usc 6·0 14&8 3 4 West Virginia 7·0 1458 < 4 5 Texas 7-1 1355 6 Louisville 7·0 1215 .... : . 7 Auburn 7·1 1182 8 8 Tennessee 6·1 1178 7 9 Florida 64 1146 9 10 Clemson 7·1 989.. 12 11 NOTRE DAME 6·1 988 10 12 California 7·1 964 11 13 Arkansas 6·1 843 15 14 LSU 6·2 799 14 15 Boise State 8·0 608 18 16 Rutgers 7·0 579 19 11 Wisconsin 7·1 560 21 18 Boston College 6·1 526 22 19 Oklahoma 5·2 497 20 20 Nebraska 6·2 373 17 21 Georgia Tech 5·2 303 13 22 TexasA&M 1·1 288 23 23 Missouri 7·1 240 24 24 Wake forest 6·1 164 25 25 Oregon 5·2 132 16 
NCAA Football USA Today Coaches Poll 
team record points previous 
1 Ohio State 

2 usc 

3 Michigan 4 West Virginia 5 Texa 6 Louisvme 7 Auburn 8 Florida 9 Tennessee 10 NOTRE DAME Associated Press Eli Manning threw a 50-zone, costing the stat­cues were too much to 11 Clemson yard touchdown pass to uesque quarterback his overcome. He got little 12 California. IRVING, Texas -The Plaxico Burress on the job, at least for the rest of comfort from Bledsoe, 13 LSU New York Giants had their fifth play, La Var Arrington the night. who stood alone on the 14 Arkansas way with Drew Bledsoe so sacked Bledsoe for a safe­But Parcells said it was­sideline wearing a visor 
15 Boise State 

much that he got benched ty soon after and the n't just the one play that pulled down over his eyes,
16 Rulgers 

at halftime. Tony Romo's Giants fended off several drove his decision to give mostly keeping his fingers
11 Boston College 

promotion thrilled Dallas potential momentum­Bledsoe the hook. curled inside his collar. 
18 Wisconsin· 

Cowboys fans -until he changers, beating the "Too many mistakes," Romo, who hung his
19 OlahoJila• ·············· 

threw an interception on Cowboys 36-22 to stake a he said. "Too much head after the last inter·
20 Nebraska 

his first snap. big head start in defense improvisation." ception, perked up spirits
21 Georgia Teen 

That's how it went of their NFC East title. Romo was intercepted moments later with a 53­
22 TexasA&M 

Monday night: The Giants A week after sacking three times, with Kevin yard touchdown pass to
2:3 Missouri 

made all the big plays, the Michael Vick seven times, Dockery taking the last Patrick Crayton soon
24 Oregon 

Cowboys made the big New York got four against one 96 yards with 2:33 after. But it was too little,
25 Georgia 

mistakes. Bledsoe -two by Michael left for the game-sealing too late. 
"That was really a poor Strahan, tying Lawrence touchdown, leaving "I don't feel very good performance," coach Bill Taylor's club record -Parcells staring down about the situation rightNCAA Football Parcells said. "A recipe and two against the more­with his arms folded, out now," Romo said. "I defi­for disaster. It was a real mobile Romo. of answers for Dallas (3-nitely would have liked to
BCS Rankings 

bad performance. And Sam Madison picked off 3). have performed better. team Harris CPU previous there's really no excuse Bledsoe on a potential go· While Romo sparked the Hopefully next week that for it." ahead pass into the end offense at times, his mis-will change."
1 Ohio State 1 3 .,. 2 Michigan 2 ·r4 3 3 usc 3 T4 2 4 West Virginia 4 14 5 IN BRIEF 5 Auburn 7 6·· 4 6 Florida 9 4 6 
Big Ben injured again in Colts defensive depth con­Seahawks quarterback out
7 Texas 5 13 9 
Steeler loss tinues to be tested at least three weeks
8 Louisville 6 9 1 
PITTSBURGH -The Pittsburgh INDIANAPOLIS -As quick as the KIRKLAND, Wash. -Seattle
9 NOTRE DAME 10 8 8 
10 California 5 Steelers aren't saying if quarterback undefeated Indianapolis Colts fill a Seahawks quarterback Matt
11 10 11 Tennessee 8 11 11 Ben Roethlisberger sustained his defensive hole, others seem to Hasselbeck will miss at least three 12 Clemson 12 15 12 second concussion in slightly more emerge. weeks with a strained ligament in 13 Arkansas 14 .10 13 than four months. The Colts found out Monday that his right knee, coach Mike Holmgren 14 Rutgers 15 ;.< •. •.7• 16 Roethlisberger was fit enough to safety Mike Doss will miss the rest of confirmed on Monday. 15 Boise State 16 1? .16 fly home with the Steelers following the season with a torn ACL -an An MRI showed the Pro Bowl quar· their 41-38 overtime loss Sunday in injury he suffered the day before terback strained the medial collater­Atlanta, and to drive his SUV to a while filling in for injured Pro al ligament while getting rolled into team meeting Monday, despite being Bowler Bob Sanders. by a Minnesota pass rusher during briefly knocked unconscious during Doss was hurt during Sunday's Sunday's loss to the Vikings. a helmet-to-helmet hit with the game against the Washington "There are three levels (of serious­Falcons' Chauncey Davis. Redskins, just hours after defensive ness)," Holmgren said. "So he's right
around the dial 
By definition, a concussion is a dis­tackle Montae Reagor was injured in the middle. ruption of the brain's activities when his SlN flipped over in a crash "He's on crutches for a few days ... caused by a sudden blow to the head while he was driving to the RCA I guess it's kind of good news for me. -much like the hit Roethlisberger Dome. It could have been worse." absorbed while being sacked by mul­The Colts expect Reagor to miss Seneca Wallace, a fourth-year vet­
MLB WORLD SERIES 

tiple defenders. Doctors who have their key AFC matchup against eran, will make his first NFL start on Detroit at St. Louis studied concussion patients have Denver (5-1) on Sunday, but hope for Sunday at Kansas City (3-3). The 
8 p.m., FOX said some act and look fine within the return of Sanders, who has Seahawks (4-2) are already without hours or even minutes of being missed the last four games after hav­league MVP Shaun Alexander, who injured, while others take longer to ing arthroscopic surgery on his right remains out indefinitely with a bro· look normal. knee. ken foot. 

.----------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 24, 2006 
MEN'S GOLF 

Irish overcome bad first round, place seventh 
Sandman shoots career-best 67 to lead Notre Dame 
By FRAN TOLAN 
Sports Writer 
After a first round that Notre Dame coach Jim Kubinski called "terrible," the Irish stormed back in the final two rounds to place seventh in a strong 15-team field at the Prestige in La Quinta, California Oct. 16 and 17. 
The Irish carded an open­ing-round 302 and were stuck in thirteenth place before a strong comeback, culminating in a third-round 282 that matched Notre Dame's sixth-best 18-hole team score ever. 
"I was proud of the way we fought back," Kubinski said. "I think it says a lot about our guys." 
Co-host Stanford won the event with a team score of 849, 30 shots better than Notre Dame. 
The Irish were led by soph­omore Josh Sandman and senior co-captain Cole lsban, who both finished with scores under par. 
Sandman shot a personal­best 67 (-5) in the final round and ended up in a tie for tenth place with a three­under par 213. 
"I honestly think Josh is as talented as anyone in college golf," Kubinski said of his budding star. "This is a glimpse of what's to come, not an exception to the rule." 
Sandman, meanwhile, is simply happy to be healthy and playing well after strug­gling through back injuries last year. 
"I was injured for awhile but I'm glad to see things are starting to fall into place for me," the sophomore said. "This was my best tourna­

ment since I've been at recorded the first under-par ed a 21-over par 237. realized, but he was opti­[Notre Dame]." score of his career during The Irish, while not entire­mistic after the strong clos­
Isban, who has been the the third round when he ly pleased with the seventh ing round. team's strongest golfer carded a two-under 70. place result, finished just "I see [the result] as a way throughout the season, fin­"With [Gifford] and two shots behind both No. 1-to build momentum," he ished in 14th place with a [Sandman] playing like they ranked USC and No. 27 said. one-under par 215. did, I think we showed how Kansas. The Irish will be in action 
"Cole knows that he has to good we can be," Kubinski "We're not too happy with again on Nov. 6 and 7 at the play well every time we tee said. seventh but we just needed a CordeValle Collegiate, hosted off and he did [at the Rounding out the Notre couple more shots to beat by UCLA at the CordeValle Prestige]," Kubinski said. Dame top five were fresh­those teams," Isban said. Golf Club in San Martin, 
Senior co-captain Adam man Doug Fortner and jun­Before this event, Kubinski Calif. Gifford placed 25th with a ior Greg Rodgers. had said that he was hoping personal-best score of four­Fortner carded a 16-over for a top-5 finish in La Contact Fran Tolan at over par 220. He also par 232 and Rodgers record-Quinta. His wish was not ftolan@nd.edu 
Fulls ahead. 
We remove the barriers, so you can accelerate your career. We've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. At Ernst &Young, we're recognized for our inclusive culture that expects everyone to contribute and everyone to grow. Stop just long enough to visit us on campus, or at ey.comjusjcareers. 
FORTUNE" 
100 BEST 
COMPANIESgs
TO WORK FOR~ 


Quality In Everything We Do 
.-----------------------~---­
Tuesday, October 24,-2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles vvin tvvo, lose one rna tch over break 

By SAMANTHA LEONARD 
Spons Writer 
Saint Mary's had a roller­coaster ride of a fall break. 
The Belles started it off play­ing Alma on Oct. 14, the sec­ond time Saint Mary's met the tough conference foe that week. Alma came out strong, beating the Belles 30-19 in game one. 
While the Belles took the sec­ond match with a 30-25 win, they couldn't keep up the fight. Alma took game three 30-22 
. and game four 30-27 for the win. Senior outside hitter Kristen Playko posted the team high of 12 kills and contributed 26 digs. Senior libero Anne Cusack held the team high in digs with 34, and junior setter Amanda David had 35 assists in the effort. The Belles dropped to fifth place in the MIAA with a 7-6 record and 14-8 record over­all. Alma jumped to fourth in the MIAA with a record of 8-5 and 11-10 overall. 
Saint Mary's 3, Windsor 1 
On Oct. 18, the Belles played in an "international" exhibition match against Windsor. The Belles had a strong win against the Canadian team with a 3-1 (25-21' 25-20, 16-25, 25-15) victory. 
Every Belle who dressed had a chance to play. 
Saint Mary's 3, Kalamazoo 0 
The following day, Oct. 19, the Belles traveled to Kalamazoo for another confer­ence matchup. The Belles were ready to play and posted a great victory of 3-0. 
Saint Mary's kept the leads strong in each game. winning in three 30-19, 30-20. 30-28. 

Playko once again had a big game for the Belles, tallying a match-high 10 kills to go along with her 25 digs, and Cusack added 26 more digs. 
Sophomore middle blocker Kaela Hellmann had seven kills on 14 attempts and no errors in posting a .500 hitting per­centage. 
The team had a total of eight service aces, keeping the Hornets on their heels throughout the match. 
Saint Mary's improved its record to 15-8 overall and 8-6 MIAA, keeping fifth place in the conference. Kalamazoo stayed at sixth in the MIAA with a record of 4-9 and 8-14 overall. 
The Belles take on the Tri­State Thunder on the road tonight at 7 p.m in another conference match and their second-to-last game of the sea­son. The Thunder is seventh in the MIAA with a record of 5-9 and 8-18 overall. 
The Belles will look to MIAA player of the week senior Kristen Playko for assistance in the conference win. Playko has been a key player in every game this fall, tallying 304 kills on the season with an average of 3.62 per a game. She is also second on the team in digs with 364 and a game average of 4.33. 
Playko will need to watch out for MIAA Specialty Player of the week Tri-State senior set­ter Rainbow Bednarski. 
Belles coach Julie Schroeder­Biek was not available for comment. 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Students 
FlvCheaper 
Sample Fares from South Bend to:  Sample Faresfrom Chicago to:  
Atlanta  $202  Paris  $431  
Portland  $202  Amsterdam  $446  
$278  Rome  $501  

Trrms: All fares are baserl on roundtrip travel and include aStudentUniverse service fee of SS. Domestic fares includr a7.596 US traoo;porlation tax. Other taxes and fees vary, depending on the itinerary and are not included. Fares are subjea to availability and change without notke. Domestic flights valid Mon-llru wrth an 8day advance purchase. 2day min stay Including a\at night reqmred and max stay is 30 days. International ftrghts valid Mon· Wed with a 8 day advance purchas~ Europe/Asia fares valid for departures between Nov 1and Dec 19. Latin America fares valid for depanures through Dec 9. Austral~ fares valid for departures between Da tand Dec 8. 4day min stay required and max stay is 90 days. Blackout dates and other restrirtion.s 
~ StudentUniverse.com 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, October 24, 2006 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Gray vvins race; Belles 
get 3rd in Manchester 
"The team looked stronger 

By BECK! DORNER than most other teams during 
Sports Writer the second half of the race and 
ran well together," she said. 
The Belles head into the In preparation for the MIAA MIAA Championship meet this meet, many of the team mem­coming Saturday in Alma, bers remained near South Mich. with renewed confidence Bend for fall break, which after an impressive perform­Bauters believes "benefited ance in the Manchester the team and allowed them to College Invite Oct. 14 that stay more in the flow of the wrapped up season, rather the team's than being regular sea­totally out of
"Megan [Gray} ran a 
son. sync a week
phenomenal race and
The Belles before the finished third was the first overall win champi­of nine teams, onships."
for a Saint Mary's 
behind For the final 
runner -quite the 
Cornerstone week of prac­a n d accomplishment." tices, Bauters Manchester said the team College, and element will be
Jackie Bauters 
had two run­emphasized,
Belles coach 
ners place in with the run-the top 10. ners discussing Saint Mary's team goals for junior Megan Gray won the the race and how to improve individual title with a time of the teamwork that served 
18:42 for the 5K distance and them well in the Manchester teammate Sara Otto earned Invite. sixth place The Belles with a record-hope to ed 19:41. improve on last 
Coach Jackie year's fifth
"This season has been 
Bauters place finish in stressed the wonderful thus far and the conference magnitude of I believe the team is standings. Last Gray's feat. year at the
ready for a great race 
"Megan ran M I A A a phenomenal th~s Saturday." Championships, race and was Otto was the the first over­squad's best
Jackie Bauters 
all win for a runner with a
Belles coach 
Saint Mary's time of 24:15 runner on the 6K quite the course. Fellow accomplishment," she said. senior Katie White recorded 
Rounding out the top five for her best finish last year at the the Belle runners were Megan MIAA championship as well, McClowry with a 20:35, Caitlin clocking in at 24:45 to finish Stevenson with a 21:05 and 33rd. Alicen Miller with a 21:17. Bauters is optimistic about 
The Belles ran some of their the conference meet this time best times of the year despite around. being tested by the varied ter­"This season has been won­rain of the Manchester course, derful thus far and I believe a mix of field, woods, flat and the team 'is ready for a great rolling landscapes. race this Saturday," she said. 
Bauters said she was impressed with her squad's fit­Contact Becki Dorner at ness level. rdorner 1 @nd.edu 
Evenings o Prayer rom Around the World 
Experience au~hen~ic prayer and medi~a#on as par~ ofa series exploring ~he beliefand prac~ices of~he world~s grea~ fai~h ~radi~ions. 

JEWISH PRAYER 
Rabbi Eric J. Siroka Temple Beth-El, South Bend 
Wednesday, October 25 
7-7:45 pm 
330 Coleman-Morse 
Sponsored by : 
Campus Ministry 

International Student Services & Activities 
FOG Graduate Residences 
Graduate Student Union 


One FllEE TACO 

(Seasoned beef only, Crunchy or Soft) _ with anypurchase 
Offer expires 11/21/06. Offer good only at porticipotlng TACO BELL® lo(olions. Offer exdudes Chicken, Steok ond Supreme versions. TACO Please present th~ coupon when ordering. Limit One coupon per person per visit. Not good with any other offer. Void if copied, transferred, reproduced or where BELL prohibited. Cosh redemption value l/20th cent. ©2006 TACO BEll CORP. 4935-6 
r:.-------------------------------------------------------------------------.~ 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Fall2007, SPRING 2008, AY 2007-8, SUMMER2007 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Wednesday, October 25,2006 5:30-7:00 pm 102 DeBartolo 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15, 2006 FOR FALL, SPRING, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2007-8 MARCH l, 2007 FOR SUMMER 2007 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/~ois 




Tuesday, October 24, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 

want to start aclubil 
Students interested in starting a new club must submit a proposal by November 1, 2006. Details on proposal contents may be found on the SAO website: http://sao.nd.edu/studentgroups/listing 
Questions? Contact Amy Geist at ageist@nd.edu, or by calling 631-7308. 
October 26 

So What Do You Plan To Do With a Philosophy Degree? 
Meet the Career Center Team and find the answers to those pesky questions from parents and roommates. 
Raffle to Win: iPod & Portable DVD Player 
119 O'Shaughnessy 
Contact information: 

Office of Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 
~ 
w 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
SMC SoccER 

Belles drop to fourth in MIAA vvith losses 
Saint Mary's shutout three times in three games over fall break 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's was held scoreless in three games dur­ing fall break as it dropped to 4-8-1 (3-3-1 in the confer­ence) on the year. 
The small skid drops the Belles into a tie for fourth in the MIAA with one game remaining this week before the conference tournament gets underway Oct. 28. 
The team started the break with a 1-0 loss to Hope College in Holland, Mich. Sophomore Sonya Masghati scored with nine minutes left in the second half to break the scoreless tie and secure a win for the Flying Dutch. 
In the game, Saint Mary's was held to just five shots ­only one of which was on net -allowing Hope goalkeeper Holly Nestle to collect an easy shutout victory. 
The Belles also dropped a 1-0 decision to No. 5 Calvin the following Saturday. Senior Jill Capel was the hero for the Knights as her sev­enth goal in conference play brought the team's unbeaten streak to 16 games. Capel beat goalie Laura Reline as she drove a high shot into the corner from 18 yards away. 
Belles' coach Caryn Mackenzie opted to play a defensive-minded game to slow down the quick, veteran offense of the Knights, a unit 

that put up six goals against Saint Mary's earlier in the season. 
The plan worked but kept the team from registering a single shot on net and very few opportunities on the offensive side of the ball. 
Calvin got off 20 shots in the game, and Reline was able to stop six of the seven that made it on goal. 
The senior goalkeeper cap­tured her second shutout of the season as the Belles played to a 0-0 draw with Adrian College. She saved all eight shots she faced in the contest. 
Senior Ashley Hinton and sophomore Mandy Thomson had two shots each on net for Saint Mary's, but once again the team was unable to find the back of the net against the Bulldogs. 
The tie gives Adrian and Saint Mary's identical records in the conference, but the Bulldogs' overall record of 6­10-1 gives them the current edge in the standings. 
Adrian will face Kalamazoo this afternoon at 4 p.m. and Saint Mary's needs a Kalamazoo victory in order to have a chance to finish in the top half of the conference. 
The Belles conclude their regular season at home against Tri-State tomorrow afternoon. The Thunder has been outscored 31-1 in 2006 and is still in search of its first conference win. 
Saint Mary's players were unavailable for comment fol­lowing the games. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Get Credit This Winter 
Interested in teaching in the Mure? Want to spend part of winter break in Arizona? 
Sign up for "Holy Cross Mission in Education" Seminar which takes place 
Jan 1·7 near Phoenix. Deadline for sign up is Oct. 27th. 
Contact the Center for Social concerns for more info or e-mail wpurceiiOnd.edu 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 24, 2006 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

Maunu recovers fro111 
ilbnes~firrishestourney 
Sophomorefinishes 31st as Irish take fifth at Taylormade Classic 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
Notre Dame sophomore Lisa Maunu couldn't even walk to the plane. 
Maunu, who contracted a throat infection and spent the night of Oct. 12 at Health Services, still managed to play the entire Taylormade Aztec Fall Classic at San Diego State University Oct. 16-17 and fin­ished 31st, helping her team­mates to a fifth-place finish. 
"They did an athletic blitz on me, hooking me up to an IV and pumping me with drugs," Maunu said. "My teammates had to literally carry me to the plane on Friday because I was so sick." 
Maunu had 

their heads. They got very slop­PY in the middle of the first round," she said. "They really needed to start picking it up or else they would have dug them­selves into a huge hole." 
Notre Dame responded, !iring a season-best 299 to climb into a tie for fifth place overall last Tuesday. In that second round, the team's highest score was a 
76. The Irish linished 22 strokes behind tournament winner Denver. 

"I was very pleased with what happened on day two," Holt said. "We were a little disap­pointed with fifth. but it could've been a lot worse." 
Nakazaki (71-74, +1) led the way for the Irish. Notre Dame's overall stroke average leader had struggled in her last few tournaments before the Aztec Fall Classic, but rebounded last week to finish tied for fifth over­all -her best of the fall season. 
"I played OK," she said. "The first day went well. I've been 

doubts as to "My teammates had working on put­whether she ting and I hit six
to literally carry me
could complete birdies on day all 36 holes. to the plane on Friday one. The second "I didn't know because I was so day it got away a if I could walk little bit, but fin­
sick."
through the ishing fifth was tournament, but very nice." I took it one shot Lisa Maunu Freshman at a time and Irish sophomore Annie Brophy 
made it through," she said. "I thought I played well. First day, I had a nine on a par­five and that killed me, but the second day I had to stay away from getting a nine, and I did that and I had more birdies." 
Despite Maunu's illness, the Irish expected to finish well in San Diego, where they were one of the highest ranked teams going in. 
"We were the third highest ranked team of the field coming in, so finishing fifth was a little disappointing," senior Noriko Nakazaki said. 
The Irish faltered on day one, Oct. 16, firing a 22-over par 311 to place eleventh after 18 holes. Three Irish golfers posted scores above 80. 
Notre Dame coach Susan Holt met with the squad after day one to light a fire under her team to fmish off their rounds as strong as they started them. 
"I put a sense of urgency into 
(78-77, +11) tied 

for 35th overall while junior Jane Lee (80-76, +12) tied for 41st. Kristen Wetzel rounded out the team scoring for the Irish by finishing tied for 49th with a 13-over par per­formance. Senior Stacy Brown played as an individual entrant whose scores did not count to the overall team performance. 
Denver (278-303) took the tournament title while BYU (296-293) placed second. Denver's Stephanie Sherlock (69-72, -3) and Emily Hoepner (66-75, -3} tied for first overall, with Sherlock winning a playoff to take the title. Hoepner's 66 in the first round was the low round for the tournament. 
Next on the Irish schedule is the Edwin Watts/Palmetto Intercollegiate Invitational on Oct. 30-31 in Kiawah Island, S. Car. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

LAST CHANCE: Concession Stand Training 
Part 1: Food Service Trainin Wednesday & Thursday October 25th-26th **12pm & 4pm LaFortune Ballroom Part 2: Mana er Trainin Wednesday & Thursday October 25th-26th·x-·*12:3opm & 4:3opm 
*At least two members ofall groups must attend Food Service Training. (Manager can attend and count as one ofthe two) 
*At least one member ofgroup must attend Manager Training. (Manger does not have to attend Food Service Training) 
LaFortune Montgomery Auditorium 


Questions? Amy Geist Student Activities Office ageist@nd.edu 
~··· 

fall Semester~:200'i· 
. "> . . fc•·• .~; ·· Wedn~sdayJ.October 25,2006, ,., :·f!i. ···. ·..,s 
..··. ( , < t'.-.{ ... "Mo~d~!'Novem~er ~CJ: ~006~;;:5 A 1 N"T .·. . . ,, . . ·..:· .. ; : ..•..•·· ,_. . ·· 6:oo .... 7':QD P.'Mr ~Y'S*· · R?ortt 6CJ9,Hesbutgh l,.ibraey, University of'N9t~t>,~~' cofA)"'EG E 
·. Applicatibns available online: ··· ···NoTR:n~oAMg,JN 
• 0 . • 
The Kaneb Center Scholars in the Classroom Series 
Peacemaking in the Holy Land: Political Islam 
This lecture vvill be delivered by Professor David Burrell, C.S.C_, Philosophy Depart­ment, University of Notre Dame. 


Tuesday, October 24, 2006 4:00PM Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Kaneb Center for Phone: 574.631.9!46 Teaching and Learning '\VWVV. nd.edu-kaneh/ 
Register: http:/i'NW"VV.nd.edu/-kaneb/events/fall06/register.shtmI 
Tuesday, October 24, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 

MEN'S TENNIS 

Parbhu advances to semis 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
For Sheeva Parbhu, taking on Ohio State's Devin Mullings in the semifinals may seem like a case of deja vu. 
The two faced off in the semifi­nals of the 2005 ITA Midwest Championships and are scheduled to do so again today. Parbhu, this year's No. 2 seed, defeated Mullings, this year's No. 8 seed, 6­1, 1-6, 7-5 in 2005. 
Parbhu knocked off Ohio State's Drew Eberly in a tiebreaker Monday, winning 1-6, 7-6, 6-1 on his way to securing a place in the semifinals. 
Senior Stephen Bass-who won the event last year -fell to Ohio State's Steven Moneke 7-6, 3-6, 6-4 in the quarterfinals. 

"He needs to step it up, to be more offensive," head coach Bobby Bayliss said of Bass. "At whatever level he plays he needs to do it instinctively, to strike first." 
The rest of the Irish team also had a strong showing at the tour­nament. Senior Barry King dropped a close match to Minnesota's Raoul Schwark, falling 7-6,6-4. 
"[King] had chances to win it and played very well, but could not quite pull it out," Bayliss said. "I think he could have gone far in the tournament." 
Bayliss also praised the efforts of sophomore Brett Helgeson. Helgeson advanced to the main draw with a No. 17 seed only to fall to Louisville's David Simon 4-6, 6-3, 6-4. 
"Brett has had a great fall and is hitting the ball very well," Bayliss said. "He's hitting better than any­one on the team right now." 
Parbhu has thrived not only in singles but also in doubles, advanc­ing with senior partner Ryan Keckley to the semifinals of the Doubles Championship. 
The Irish have been working on their doubles game all season and Bayliss is pleased with the results the team is seeing. The duo tri­umphed over Illinois' Brendan Davis and GD Jones 8-2 in the quarterfinals. On their way to earning a spot in the semifinals, the two also eliminated Michigan's Matko Maravic and George Navas. 
Parbhu and Keckley are sched­uled to take on Ohio State's Drew Eberly and Justin Kronauge today at2p.m. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
Consider the Carmelite 


Pastor Teacher & CampusMinister 
Would you think ofjoining an BOO year .tradition of walking in the footsteps of Jesus Chnst? 
As Carmelites today, we have made a choice we treasure, emulating the contemplative spirit of Mary and Elijah, we build our relationship with God thru prayer, service and in community. We invite you to walk with us! 
Fr. William Wert 0. Corm. Phone: 202-526-1221 C(lrmelitecarmelites@carmelites. net 
Ft-icH·s

www.carmelites.net 
SMC GoLF 
Belles fall short of fifth straight MIAA title 
Young team finishes fourth at conference championship tourney 
By REBECCA SLINGER Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's wanted to win the conference title this year, but after a season filled with disappointment, illness and injury, the Belles came up short of their goal. 
Saint Mary's finished fourth at the MIAA Championship last weekend with a team score of 373 at the the par-72 Bedford Valley Country Club in Battle Creek, Mich. First place Olivet posted a 348 to clinch the con­ference title for the first time in more than 10 years. 
an 85 and placed second in the tournament. O'Brien tied for second with Kylee Ehinger of Tri-State. AnnMarie Jasieniecki of Albion was the individual reader posting an 80. 
Earning 14th place was fresh­man Kate Doornbos who fired a 
92. Alex Sei (95), Katie Mcinerney (101) and Meredith Fantom (101) also contributed to the Belles' fourth-place fin­ish. 
Four Belles earned league honors. Doornbos was the ninth lowest scorer in the MIAA, shooting a total of 352 in four conference tournament appear­ances. Mcinerney (379) placed 20th, Sei (382) 24th and Fantom (387) 27th. Olivet con­tinued to dominate the confer­ence with four of their golfers placing in the top four spots. 
Olivet fresh­man Megan 

Tri-State Himmel led
"We're such a young team, 
and Albion the golf lead­also finished but we played well. Even ers and her ahead of the though we didn't reach our team with a Belles, the total score of
goal [of a fifth-consecutive 
first time 337.
MIAA title] we'll be back in 
either school Doornbos has done so the spring. " was the only in five years. Belle and Tri-State shot only fresh­
Alex Sei 
a 355, Albion man who 
Belles sophomore 
a 362. named to the 
Hope did not compete as a result of an "automobile accident en route to competi­tion," according to the MIAA's Web site. 
The 2006 League Medalist, an award given to the best per­former over the course of the season, was given to Kristy Latimer, an Olivet senior who placed sixth in the champi· onship tournament (88). Belles captain Katie O'Brien shot three strokes better than Latimer for 
specialty Sizzlelini with Chicken, Sausage or both. 
Frosty Bellinis only $2 
Try raspberry, green apple or peach. 
P~eo. 
ALlAN KITCHEN 

Unmistakably Italian \Unbelievably Good 
511 0 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka 574-271-1692 
Reservations Accepted 

All-MIAA 

S e c o n d Team. 
Sophomore co-captain Sei said the pressure on the team contributed to its finish. 
"We're such a young team, but we played well," Sei said. "Even though we didn't reach our goal [a fifth-consecutive MIAA title] we'll be back in the spring." 
Contact Rebecca Slinger at rslingO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Every Tuesday enjoy our 


ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish finish fourth at ISU 
Kurt Benninger and Patrick Smyth lead team with top-20 finishes 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
For the second race in a row, the No. 12 Irish men were able to shock higher ranked teams in a big-time national meet, finishing fourth out of 36 in the Pre-National Meet Oct. 14 at Indiana State. 
Notre Dame accumulated just 255 points in the race, better than five teams ranked ahead of the then-No. 21 Irish before the race -No. 9 BYU, No. 14 Michigan, No. 16 Virginia, No. 19 William and Mary and No. 20 Arizona State. The Irish finished behind only No. 5 Iona (100 points), No. 3 Stanford (106) and No. 25 Florida (217). 
Senior Kurt Benninger 
(23:40) and sophomore Patrick Smyth (23:49) led Notre Dame across the line, finishing seventh and twelfth, respectively. 
"It was good we ran togeth­er for about three-quarters of the race and went with a group," Smyth said. "I kind of fell off a little bit, but we were both pretty high." 
Joining Notre Dame's top two runners were juniors 
Jake Watson (24:23) and Brett Adams 
(24:50) and freshman Jake Walker (24:51). Of the Irish qualifiers, four set career-highs for an eight kilometer race while Smyth was 


"We have the Big East this 0 p e t Championship. Friday-we're just going to (21:15), fol­
lowed by

keep rolling." Notes:
senior Ann 

+Liberty's Josh McDougal
M a z u r 

won the men's race with a
Patrick Smyth (21:15), 
final time of 23:14. Wake 
Irish runner sophomore 
Forest's Michelle Sikes took 
a mere three seconds off his personal best set at the Notre Dame Invitational run Sept. 30. 
Walker's finish was espe­cially impressive as it was the freshman's first time in the team's top-five lineup in his Notre Dame career. 
"As a freshman stepping into that role, I think he's going to be great and I think he's going keep it moving," Smyth said. 
Despite the high finish, Smyth feels Notre Dame has the capability to do even bet­ter as the season continues. 
"We have the Big East this Friday -we're just going to keep rolling," he said. "We had a real good training over fall break and we just keep rolling with it and hopefully the Big East goes well." 
The race was an important stepping stone for Notre Dame's hunt for a national title because the NCAA cham­pionship next month will be run at the same course in Terre Haute. 
The Irish women also com­peted in the Pre-National Meet, finishing tied with Indiana for 15th out of 36 teams in the six kilometer race with 441 points. 
Defending national champi­on Stanford dominated the competition with a paltry 45 points, an incredible amount considering second-place Minnesota amassed 200. 
Junior Sunni Olding was the only Notre Dame runner in the top 50 finishers of the 

PHIL HUDELSON!The Observer 
Sophomore Robbie Barany, left, and junior Jake Watson, right, break away from the pack at the National Catholic Championship Sept. 15. Watson placed second at the event. 
meet, clocking in at 20:38 for After training during fall 19th place. break and this coming week, Next for the the Irish return to action Irish was Friday at Boston College to junior Julie compete for the Big East 
Heidi Rocha 

the top spot in the women's
(21 :49) and race at 20:16.
freshman 

Lindsey Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at Ferguson (21:51). jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

Saint Mary's College Center for Spirituality 
The 2006 Endowed Fall Lecture Series 

Bringing Tradition 
All lectures: 7:30p.m. Stapleton Lounge, I.e Mans Hall 
Saint .tvlary's College 

Tc0 L1 •f e 

Wednesday, September 6 Ana Maria Pineda, Santa Clara University 
Welcoming the Stranger: Hospitality in the Christian Tradition 
Special fulknv-up event: Thursday, September 7 
l'ineJa 

Immigraticm Issues: A Catholic Commtm Ground Ccmversation (3:30p.m. in Stat)leton Lounge) 
Wednesday, October 25 Claire Wolfteich, Boston University \Voljieich 
Women, Spirituality and the Workplace 

Monday, November 6 
Saint Catherine of Siena An impersonation by actre'iS Nancy MuiTay, O.P. Voices fram the Past, Wisdam far Today, Hope far Tbmorruw 
MH>Tay 

Saint M:sColle~ 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 
Center for Spirituality www.saintmarys.edu/-cfs (574) 284-4636 • e-mail: astrotma®saintmarys.edu 


LONDON PROGRAM 
APPLICATION MEETING 
FOR FALL 2007 & SPRING 2008 Thursday, October 26, 2006 141 DeBartolo 6:00pm 
SOPHOMORES WHO MISSED THE SEPTEMBER MEETING ARE WELCOME! 

Tuesday, October 24, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 

Undefeated 
continued from page 28 
currently one point behind Seton Hall for the 10th and final slot in the conference tournament, which begins Wednesday. Because the Bearcats lost to the Pirates on Sunday, they need to beat the Irish tonight to qualify for the tournament. 
Notre Dame has clinched both a berth in the tournament and a first round bye, but Waldrum said he is not con­cerned about Cincinnati's emo­tion in what could be the last game of the Bearcats' season because Connecticut, Georgetown and Villanova were in similar situations when the Irish played them. 
"The last two or three games, we've run into teams that desperately need wins," he said. "When we played UConn, we were playing a des­perate team. They were on the verge of missing the confer­ence tournament, which is unheard of for them." 
Waldrum also said the Irish have motivation of their own. 
"We've reminded our kids that we need to win as many games as we can to get home field advantage in the NCAA tournament," he said. 
Notre Dame 0, Connecticut 0 
The Irish and Huskies tied Oct. 13 in Storrs, Conn., giving Notre Dame the first blemish on its record and Connecticut a berth in the Big East Tournament. 
"We ran into a UConn team that was ready to play, but we also ran into a little bit of the fatigue from midterms, from staying up late and studying," Waldrum said. 

Waldrum said his players were upset immediately follow­ing the tie, but by their next game against Georgetown, the emotion had subsided. 
"They were upset about it and they hope to get to play Connecticut down the road, but its not something that's going to be in their minds the rest of the season," he said. 
Irish junior forward Amanda Cinalli had Notre Dame's best scoring chance, a header on a cross from sophomore Brittany Bock with only nine minutes left in the game, but the ball sailed just over the crossbar. 
Notre Dame 5, Providence 0 
The Irish bounced back from their tie against UConn with a drubbing of the Friars on the road Oct. 15. 
Sophomore Kerri Hanks became the youngest player in Irish history to reach 100 career points and 40 career goals with her score and two assists while Bock and Cinalli added goals of their own. 
Notre Dame held Providence without a shot on goal or a corner kick in earning its 12th shutout of the season. 
Notre Dame 4, Villanova 2 
The Irish allowed multiple goals for the first time this sea­son but managed a 4-2 win over the Wildcats in Philadelphia Friday. 
The initial Villanova goal, the first allowed by Notre Dame in six games, came four minutes into the second half by fresh­men Erin Byrnes and tied the game at one. 
"We had a little bit of a break down in the flank area," Waldrum said. "We turned the ball over and didn't over quick enough and then the kid made a really good shot." 
Byrnes also scored Villanova's second goal, a shot with less than a minute remaining. It was the first goal the Irish have allowed in the second half of a game this year. 
"I thought we went to sleep instead of finishing the game off," Waldrum said. 
Notre Dame 1, Georgetown 0 
The Irish shut out their 13th opponent of the season Sunday with a 1-0 victory over the Hoyas in Washington, D.C. 
Sophomore Carrie Dew head­ed in a cross from Hanks early in the second half for the game's only goal. 
Georgetown (5-9-5, 2-7-2 Big East) needed a win to have any chance to qualify for the Big East tournament but didn't get it. 
Notes: 
+Waldrum said he will give the team Wednesday and pos­sibly Thursday off from prac­tice in preparation for a Big East tournament game Saturday or Sunday. 
"They need the rest and a chance to catch up on school work," Waldrum said. Notre Dame will have played three games in five days after today. 
Contact Chris Khorey at 
ckhorey@nd.edu 

rHURSDAY, OcTOBER 26 @8:00PM 
JOYCE CENTER ARENA 
COME MEET THE 2006~2001 MEN'S BASKETBALL TEAM, AND DON'T MISS YOUR CHANCE TO BUY YOUR SEASON TICKETS! FEATURING SPECIAL GUEST... 
JoHN PAXSoN! (CHICAGO BuLLS ExEcUTIVE VP, BASKETBALL OPERATIONS, NoTRE DAME '83 
You CouLD WrN $501000! 
OTHER PRIZES INCLUDE••• 
~ RoUN~TRIP AIRFARE FOR Two ON ALLEGIANT AIR 
, BooKs FOR ASEMESTER ~ 
•fREE SEASON TICKETS... AND MUCH MORE ~'\:::,~ ~s. 
x_r::::::,~::J~  ~~~  
~~  ~~~  
COME WATCH AS YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS TAKE ON THE  ~'~  
PLAYERS IN THREE,POINT CONTESTS, SKILLS CONTESTS, AND  ~  
OTHER EVENTS THROUGHOUT THIS EVENING.  

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 24, 2006 
CCHA 
continued from page 28 
the last two games) was named Defensive Player of the Week, while senior Dave Brown (48 saves in two games) was award­ed Goaltender of the Week and freshman Kevin Deeth (one goal, two assists) Rookie of the Week. 
"It's great that our guys get attention for what they aceom­plished," Jackson said. "But the weekend's over, everything we accomplished last weekend could be blown out of propor­tion next weekend if we play Army and lose." 
Notre Dame beat Boston College 3-2 with a last-second goal by T.J. Jindra Oct. 22, 2004 at the Joyce Center and shut out the Eagles 1-0 at Kelley Rink the year before. 
"We have to prove the most important part of excellence is consisteney," Jaekson said. "We proved that we ean be a good team this weekend, but we have to prove we can be a great team." 
Notre Dame 7, Boston College 1 
Junior Mark Van Guilder scored his second career hat triek in the Eagles' worst home loss in 12 years. 
Boston College goaltender Cory Schneider made 24 saves and surrendered six goals 

before he was replaced by Joe Pearce. Brown made 26 saves for the Irish, allowing a short­handed goal to Dan Bertram :48 seeonds into the third period to cut the Irish lead to 4-1. 
Notre Dame responded with three third-period goals, one each by Van Guilder -his third of the game -sophomore Erik Condra and freshman Ryan Thang (two goals) to seal the win over the speedy Eagles. 
"I think they had to worry about our speed," Jaekson said. "Our transition game was as good as I've seen it. When we forced one of their turnovers, we countered very quickly. They had a hard time adjusting to our speed sometimes." 
Jackson said the Irish defense was the most important faetor in the blowout vietory, creating numerous turnovers that led to droves of scoring chances. 
The Irish opened up a 4-0 lead by the second intermission on f1rst-period goals by Van Guilder and Thang and second-period tallies by Van Guilder and Deeth. 
Notre Dame was 2-for-11 on the power play, while the penal­ty-kill unit shut down 9-of-10 Boston College power plays. 
Notre Dame 6, Providence 1 
Freshman Dan Kissel pack­aged his first three collegiate goals into a tidy hat trick for the Irish in the Saturday win over Providence. 
The Irish struggled in the first period, scoring a lone goal by Kissel on the power play, but rebounded with a three-goal second period. 
"It's hard to say if we played down to their level," Jackson said. "Hight now, we're not good enough to do that stuff." 
Kissel scored his second goal 
1:15 into the second period and was followed :4 7 later by a rebound put-away from senior Jason Paige, his first goal of the year. Deeth scored later in the period for a 4-1 lead. 
The lone Friars goal came in the second from Colin McDonald, assisted by Niek Mazzolini. Brown had 22 saves. 
Senior Michael Bartlett scored his first of the year and Kissel added his third in the third peri­od for the 6-1 1inal. 
Minnesota State-Mankato 3, Notre Dame 2 (OT) 
The Maverieks defeated the Irish with 14.2 seconds remain­ing in overtime on the power play to take the second game of a series in which Notre Dame took the opener 6-1. 
Irish sophomore Garrett Regan was called for a phantom tripping penalty with 2:02 left in the overtime. Minnesota State forward Jon Kalinski shoveled home the game-winning goal on a down-low backhander over Brown. 
"I think at Minnesota State, we didn't do what we did last 



Big East 
continued from page 28. 
tributed one of his two assists for the night on Martin's goal, ran his team-leading assist count to seven. 
Junior forward Joseph Lapira increased his nation­leading goal count to 19 by scoring the team's opening goal in the 32nd minute. It was the seventh consecutive game in which Lapira had scored a goal. 
Sophomore midfielder Cory Rellas. who has seen vastly increased playing time since senior midfielder Ian Etherington injured his leg on Sept. 23, picked up the first of his two assists for the evening on Lapira's goal. Despite his limited playing time, Rellas now has five assists on the season, second only to Norman's seven. 
"Since [getting more playing time]. Cory has come on and really established himself as a very solid player," Clark said. "He's getting better every week as his confidence has grown, and that's the exciting thing." 
West Virginia 2, Notre Dame 1 
By defeating then-No. 6 Notre Dame 2-1 Wednesday evening at Dirk Dlesk Soccer Stadium in Morgantown, No. 4 West Virginia not only snapped Notre Dame's seven game winning streak, but they also ended the Irish's run for the No. 1 seed in the Big East tournament. 
The loss left Notre Dame four points behind the Mountaineers -a difference the team could not make up with only one game remaining on the regular season sched­ule. 
The Irish started the game positively as Rellas tallied his first career goal for Notre Dame, scoring in the 4th minute. Freshman midfielder Michael Thomas slipped the Lapira to an open Thomas ball through the defense to who deposited the ball at the Rellas to pick up his second back post. The goal was assist on the season. Thomas's third of the season, 

West Virginia responded and the fourth straight game decisively, picking up the with a point for the reigning equalizer only 13 minutes in. Big East freshman of the Mountaineer midfielder Dan week. Stratford received a pass from "[Thomas! is an amazing fellow midfielder Andrew freshman, and he's been ter­Wright and blasted his shot rific since day one," Clark home from 22 yards out. The said. "Since the injury to Uun­goal was the first conceded by ior midfielder I Alex I r i s h Yoshinaga, senior he's had to go a l -change keeper from an ofT
"They were hard, competitive, 
Chris the bench
tough games. They were fun 
Cahill in role to a 2 5 7 experiences for the boys to starting 
minutes wrap up the season. " role, and 
a he's taken streak to it like a 
Bobby Clark 
t h a t duek to spanned Irish coach water. He's 
three games. 
"The hard thing for us was giving up the lead so quickly," Clark said. "If we had been able to go into halftime one goal to 
the  good,  it  would  have  
helped us a lot."  
Wright  would  give  West  

Virginia the lead for good in the 56th minute when his shot hit home from 12 yards out for his fifth goal of the season. 
Notre Dame 1, Connecticut 
0 

Notre Dame closed out its regular season with a 1-0 win over No. 14 Connecticut in front of 3,831 fans at Joseph 
J. Morrone Stadium Saturday evening. 
It was Notre Dame's second ever win at Connecticut and its first win in Storrs since 1986. With the victory, Notre Dame locked up the No. 3 seed in the Big East tourna­ment as the Irish finished with 24 points in Big East play one behind Connecticut and four behind West Virginia. 
The only goal of the game was scored in the 65th minute by Thomas. Senior defender Ryan Miller sent a cross into the box that was flicked on by played well 
all year, 

but the niee thing is that now he's been rewarded with some goals." 
With the shutout, Cahill held an opponent scoreless for the ninth time on the season, and he improved his record to 11­3-1. 
Notre Dame now will begin preparing for post-season play which begins Wednesday night when the Irish take on DePaul in the first round of the Big East tournament, and Notre Dame will draw on their past three games to aid their preparation. 
"All three games were like NCAA tournament games," Clark said. "They were hard, competitive, tough games. They were fun experiences for the boys to wrap up the sea­son." 
Note: 
+By failing to score against West Virginia, Lapira was held without a goal for the first time in seven games, but he held onto his national lead in both goals (19) and points (41). 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
weekend," Jaekson said. "We didn't do the little things, we didn't exeeute the system the way we did [against BC and Providence]." 
Deeth scored a man-advan­tage and a first-period short­handed goal for the Irish, but after two periods the score was 
Hawaii 
continued from page 28 
great fan base," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said. "They're very appreciative, When we left the court after Tuesday there was a standing ovation. They like good vollnyball." 
Notre Dame 3, DePaul 0 
The lrL<>h defeated DePaul 30-22, 30-16, :~0-1 0 at home behind nine­kill performances from freshmen Christina Kaelin and Serinity Phillips. 
Junior captain Adrianna Stasiuk led the team in digs with 11. 
The Irish dominated the first game and never relinquished the lead, ending the game on a 3-0 run. 
A kill from Kaelin put DePaul down two games, and a 10-point stretch on the serve by freshman Jamel Nicholas ended the third game and completed the sweep. 
"I felt like we had a good start to fhll break and played at a high level to takH us into Hawaii," Brown said. 
Hawaii 3, Notre Dame 0 
Sophomore Mallorie Croalled the IrL<>h in a losing ellort with 11 kill<> in the 27-30, 26-30, 27-30 loss. 
Stasiuk had nine kill<> and fresh­man Kim Kristoff had six blocks while the Rainbow Wahine snapped a six-game Irish win streak. Junior Ashley Tarutis led the team in assist<> with 22. 
Hawaii sophomore Jamie Houston had 18 kills and put an end to Irish comeback<> in each of the games with timely kills. Houston rallied the Wahine from a three-point deficit with three kill<> in a 6-0 run to take the match with a sweep. 
"We got better," Brown said. "I do think we learned a lot. I don't think we played great, it was a little bit more high error than what we needed to be to win." 
Hawaii 3, Notre Dame 1 
The Irish took one game against the Rainbow Wahine 28-30, 25-30, 30-22, 23-30 and were led by soph­omore Justine Stremick, who had 14 kills. 
After dropping two close games, the Irish rallied in the third game to tied 2-2. Joel Hanson and Kael Mouilllierat put the Mavericks up 2-1 with goals in the second period, before Deeth knotted it. 
Brown had 13 saves in the loss. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
take their first lead, on a kill from Kristoff, and eventually the game. The team went on a 10-2 run after the scored was tied at 20-20 to make the seore 2-1. 
The Irish opened up a 13-11 lead in the fourth game, but Hawaii ral­lied back for the lead and put the game away with a 7-2 game-win­ning streteh. 
Notre Dame 3, Connecticut 0 
Phillips led the Irish in kills with 16 and the tnam won at home 30­12, 30-24, 30-27 Friday. 
The lrL'ih were helped in the first game by four attack errors from the Huskies and kill<> from Stremick and Croat. Kristoff finished the match with a five-serve stretch. 
"We came out and played a really good game one, really steady and played a good match overall," Brown said. 
Stasiuk ended the second game with a kill and the Irish took the match in the third game off a Huskies attack error. 
St. John's 3, Notre Dame 0 
Stasiuk left the match in the first game with an ankle sprain and the Irish fell to the undefeated Red Storm 30-32, 24-30, 22-30. 
"Losing Adrianna is huge for us," Brown said. "She is a primary pass­er and takes a huge offensive load, and it's not that Megan [Fesl] can't or didn't do a great job -she did a good job. We're just not used to having that leadership off the court." 
The Irish dropped a close first game after several kills from the Red Storm's Latoya Blunt squashed a late rally. 
"One of the things we talked about before playing this team is that every match that they've won -which is a whole bunch -they win the first game," Brown said. "I think we felt like it was really important to come out with a really good start and win the first game and put them in a position they're not used to being in." 
The Red Storm never trailed in the second game and trailed only briefly in the third game as it com­pleted the sweep and took control of first place. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 


Tuesday, October 24, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 

ALEC WHITE
JOCULAR 


ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 
AI.P.I(!HT C.LASS, 1-\U£ ,..fl.£ 'jOU~ Mlt>T'ERH 
l'1'-PEIZ..S 8~­

rr A1'f'E.fo.~ THP.T HOST Of" 'fOU V'l ~IE '1\-l\S 
IN  "'  bE.L\~IUM.  OF  
S\...E£-P  ~EP~A\J P,\\oN  
E'SC../'-PIN(r  \o  
f'!U:Lt>Ol'-'\  
SREA"-_  

11M H P.~\N (.r' \\"\I$ P..S~Ut-\~lt>N SP..SE:D 
Qt-.) "'1'1-lE.. NUM.~'C..R.. 
of' Pr..o'VOC..P..TN 'C. 
"\'HE.~E..":. \ ~E(..E.\\1 E.C:> ON .SOUP , CN-\.E..LS, AND DA'I'-"'~E.-E.'Jt:N IH.ol.U:rl-\ 
!HI~ \S AN ~ -t'!:! 
'DAM~-J, \ \H.oULrHT M~ PJ'<~ 0..._. ::OouP 
..,..1>6 "' W INN E-R... 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
rrtj 1 

1 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
NALTS 
± 
BONDEY j I [I [] 
www.jumble.com 
I NUMMAG ± 

I rI J I 
A: 'l I I I ]"[ I I J [ I I JD 
(Answers tomorrow}  
Saturday's  I  Jumbles: Answer:  ALIAS WHOOP UNSOLD SAFARI When the librarian misplaced the rare dictionary,  
she was-AT A LOSS FOR "WORDS"  

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Bad dog. Look what you've aone. Scoot! 
10-24­
WHAT MOM SAID WHEN TH!::: PUPPY C.Hf::Wr:D ON TH!::: TABL.f:: L.f::G. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 38 Lend 66 "Hold it!" (listen)
British rule in 67 See 19-Across 
India 39 Niceties 68 Nozzle site following4 Eject, as lava 

69 Hwys. a Multigeneration­
29-Downs 
42 Instant

al tales 43 Opposite of "ja" DOWN
13 Cowboy boot feature 44 Canadian gas 1 Replies to an brand invitation, briefly 
15 Read (over) 45 "Seriously, don't 2 Separately 
16 Trashy sort bother" 3 Minty drink 11 Lowland 

47 Mythical being 

4 Backup means18 First-rate 
with horns 
for gaining 
19 With 67-Across, 

49 Playing card dot entrance a whisker cutter 
51 Gives the gas 5 Impoverished 20 Dollar amount 
55 Forms filled out 6 Sea eagle indicated on 

for potential 

55-Across 7 Full of 
employers 
dandelions, say23 Sunshine State 61 Smell

city 8 Summer 
62 Ignoring modern 
headwear24 ''That hurts!" 
sensibilities, for 

9 _ Sea, which
25 Gathers leaves short is really a lake

28 Mailing label 63 Island of 1oStrip in the
words Napoleon's exile Mideast
33 "Stop yelling 64 Hysterical !" 

11 Love god 
65 Yards rushed, 36 Jazzy Fitzgerald e.g. 12 Surprisingly lively 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 14 Letter often accompanying 55-Across 
~rl:=+:-t 21 Flight board abbr. -=+-=+:::+:::-! 22 Call for help ~.:+=+:+.~ 26 North Carolina's _ University 
27 Swings around 
~==+=+:=-! ~~+=-l 29 Helpful step for an employment seeker 
30 Preceders of cues, alphabetically 
31 Blackens 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

32 Approximately 41 Theater 55 Doorpost intermission
33 Memo heading 

56 Face-to-face abbr. 
46 Plunge 
exam 48 "Is it soup _?"
34 "Comin' the 57 fide

50 Luxurious 52 _-powered 58 In the thick of Rye" 
35 Common street name 

53 Ignored, as a 
59 Wild about

bridge suit 37 Inter 
54 Hurdles for H.S. so Book auditors, 40 Not fall behind juniors for short 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Masiela Lusha, 21; AI Leiter, 41; Dwight Yoakam, 50; Michael Crichton, 64 
Happy Birthday: It's the people with whom you connect this year who will make the difference in the future. A change in vocation or looking toward retirement will he equally as exciting and possible. A chance to travel or to learn something new will bring about a fresh lease on life. Your numbers are 13, 23, 29, 33, 46, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Partnerships, contracts, health concerns and money matters must be dealt with today. Information is being withheld in a partnership you are in. Don't pry. Give this person a chance to come to you. 3 stars 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Everything will ride on how you treat others. Be accommodating and stick to facts. Don't stretch the truth or hold back. Listen to complaints and do what you can. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): If you can present an idea in an exciting and enticing way, you will get the backing you need. Someone you think you can trust will he secretly working against you. Don't let personal responsibilities stand in your way. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): The more you do with family, friends, children or anyone who inspires you, the better. Ask questions so you can clear your mind of some of the worries you've been harboring. If someone from your past is on your mind, contact this person. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Rely on the people who are always there for you. Someone from your early childhood will cause you to worry over something that is really not your responsibility. You have to find out for yourself if you want to know the truth. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Learn whatever you need to know to begin a new project or to expand on something you are already involved in. A change regarding your home and personal life may be daunting but you will come out on top. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Personal matters may twist your way of thinking today. Try to stay on course and do what's best for yourself financially. A change in career or making a move may not be such a bad idea. Someone from your past will not be straight with you. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't hold back or sugarcoat the information you have. You'll get further ahead in the end if you are honest. A misunderstanding and confusion while traveling will both lead to trouble. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Set down ground rules and proceed to make the necessary reforms. Not everyone will understand what you are trying to do but that shouldn't concern you. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Pull out all the stops and go after your goals. Everything you touch will turn to gold. Take everyone by storm by doing the most imaginative thing you can do--the most unthinkable, unbelievable and captivating. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Slow down, watch what you say and be careful while traveling. You will be drawn to a group that is probably not the best for you. Don't get involved in things that could lead to distraction. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A fmancial gain is apparent so he ready to pick up on whatever needs to be done to get the highest return. Winnings, gifts, payoffs, settlements. inheritance and rebates are all in the picture. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You have drive, detennination and an attitude that helps you get what you want. You are devoted, flexible and original, as well as, clever, manipulative and very thorough. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.•com for confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 


THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, October 24, 2006 
page 28 
HOCKEY 
Irish jump to No. 11 with victory over BC 
By KYLE CASSILY Sporrs Writer 
Notre Dame played the David to Boston College's Goliath ­again -and upset the No. 1 Eagles 7-1 Friday in Chestnut Hill, Mass., the third time in three straight games the Irish have knocked off a top-ranked Eagles squad. 
"It's a big step for us," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. ''I'm happy with what we did this weekend -it's a sign of where we can be, what we can be." 
The Irish (3 -1-0) defeated Providence College 6-1 Saturday to sweep their two­game tour of the Hockey East, but lost 3-2 with seconds remaining in overtime Oct. 14 

Giant killers 
at Minnesota State-Mankato to split that two-game series. 
With the Boston College blowout -the ninth time in its history that Notre Dame has beaten a No. 1-ranked team ­and the Providence win, the Irish went from unranked to No. 11 in Monday's USA Today/American Hockey Magazine Top 15. It is the high­est the team has been ranked since it finished the 2003-04 season at No. 12 after a NCAA Tournament loss to Minnesota. 
"Let's be realistic about that," Jackson said. "It's October and there's still 12-15 teams today ahead of us, and that doesn't mean there won't be more tomorrow." 
Three Notre Dame players were awarded CCfiA honors Monday for their weekend efforts. Senior defenseman Wes O'Neill (two assists, plus-four in QUENTIN STENGER/The Observer 

Irish center Mark Van Guilder, left, faces off against the see CCHA/page 26 Mavericks' Zach Harrison in Notre Dame's 6-1 win Oct. 13. 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Squad falls out of first to Haw-aii 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

Notre Dame fell out of first place in the Big East with a 3-0 loss to St. John's at home Sunday in a battle of the league unbeaten.'>. 
It was the final match of five games Notre Dame played over fall break. The Irish (13-8, 7-1 Big East) went 2-3, sweeping DePaul and Connecticut but suffering back-to-hack losses to No. 16 Ilawaii. 
Notre Dame lost to the Rainbow Wahine 3-0 and 3-1 on Oct. 16 and 17 in front of a crowd of 6,027 at the Stan Sheriff Center in Honolulu. 
"Hawaii is just a great atmos­phere to play volleyball, they get a 
see HAWAII/page 26 
MEN'5 SOCCER 

Offense gears up for battle against DePaul 
Team wins 2 offinal 3 regular season games 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 
Playing possibly its toughest three games of the season in a span of eight days, No. 6 Notre Dame more than held its own last week, picking up wins over Providence and No. 14 Connecticut while falling to No. 4 West Virginia. 
"We could have won all three games," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "We played well at West Virginia, but we didn't follow through with our chances." 
The results leave Notre Dame's record at 12-4-2 (8-3-0 Big East) at the conclusion of the regular season. 
With its 24 points, Notre Dame locked up the No. 3 seed in the Big East tournament, which begins Wednesday night when the Irish take on DePaul at Alumni Field. Notre Dame defeated the Blue Demons 3-0 in South Bend Sept. 10 in the teams' only meeting this sea­son. 
Notre Dame 3, Providence 0 
The Irish started the week with a decisive victory over Providence Oct. 14, running their winning streak to a sea­son-high seven games -the program's longest since an eight-game streak in 2003. 
The victory left Notre Dame, who entered the game tied with Providence in the confer­ence standings, in sole posses­sion of second place in the Big East's Blue Division one point behind both Connecticut and West Virginia. 
With their shutout of the Friars, the Irish held their opponent scoreless for the fifth time in six games and ninth time for the season. Despite the impressive statistics, Clark downplayed the result. 
"It was not an easy 3-0 game," Clark said. "Until we scored in the final minute, we felt we were still in a game. It was a good clear win, but it wasn't a blowout." 
Junior forward Kurt Martin scored the pivotal goal on a blistering shot with only 26 seconds remaining in the game. It was Martin's first goal on the season. Senior midfield­er Nate Norman, who con-
see BIG EAST/page 26 

NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish prepare for playoffs 

Team looks to finish regular season strong 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Spores Editor 

Notre Dame is one game away from an unbeaten regu­lar season. 
After going 3-0-1 during fall break, the Irish take on Cincinnati tonight on the road in a makeup of Sept. 22's game that was cancelled due to lightning. 
No. 1 Notre Dame (16-0-1, 9-0-1 Big East) won three road contests last week, beat­ing Providence 5-0 Oct. 15, Villanova 4-2 Friday and Georgetown 1-0 Sunday. The Irish also tied Connecticut 0-0 Oct. 13. 
Notre Dame coach Randy Waldrum said the week off from classes was a welcome opportunity to rest for the team after midterms. 
"The hard part was coming off of midterms exams," Waldrum said. "The week was used to not only train but to catch up academically a little bit." 
The Bearcats come into tonight's game 7-8-2 and 3-6­1 in the Big East. They are 
PHIL HUDELSON/The Observer 
Irish midfielder Susan Pinnick fights for the ball in Notre Dame's 5-0 win over Pittsburgh Oct. 1 at Alumni Field. see UNDEFEATED/page 25 
I 

NO CROSS COUNTRY 

SMC GOlf ND WOMEN'S GOLF SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
FOOTBALL 
LLI 
(.) 
Notre Dame 20 

The Belles take fourth Sophomore Lisa Junior Megan Gray
Junior Sheeva Parbhu 

z Notre Dame finishes 
UCLA 17 

:3 
advances to the semifi-at the MIAA Matmu recovers from an becomes the first Belle to
--< 
ahead of five ranked 
Jeff Samardzija's 

nals of the ITA Midwest Championships, ending illness to help the Irish win an individual cham­
teams in taking fourth 
touchdown with 27 sec­
c:s 

Championships. their streak of five straight take fifth at the pionship at the
at the Pre-National 
onds left gives the Irish 
cz: 

conference titles. Taylormade Invitational. Manchester Invite.
Championships. 
the victory. •
=: 
Irish Insider 

page 24 
page 23 page 23 page 22 page 20 




