
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41 : ISSUE 12 WEDNESDAY. SEPTEMBER 6, 2006 

Penn State pep rally placed in Stadium 
be a great interest in the pep rally," Heisler said. 
About 40,000 people attended the stadium pep rally before the USC game last October, he said. 
Students from the host dorms -Keenan, Stanford, McGlinn and Welsh Family -can enter the Stadium between 5:00 and 
5:30 p.m. All other Notre Dame students with identification can enter between 5:15 and 5:45 
p.m. The general public is allowed to enter at 5:45p.m. 

Despite the change in loca­tion, the basic pep rally format will remain the same, said Hall Presidents Council (HPC) co­chair Katie Cordelli. 
On Friday, the new Leprechaun will be introduced, the porn squad will perform and the football team will make an appearance. Cordelli said they also booked "solid talent" from other student groups to partici­
see STADIUM/page 4 

New Notre Dame spot airs during Ga. Tech gam_e 
Promotional placement features 'champion' alums in less controversial ad than last year's 'Candle' 

By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame Stadium will be the site of thousands of cheering fans not once, but twice this weekend. 
Head football coach Charlie Weis, along with the athletic department, made the decision to hold the first pep rally of the year in the stadium to accom­modate the large number of fans expected to attend, associ­ate athletic director John Heisler said. 
While Heisler can't predict exactly how many people will attend on Friday, it is safe to say the rally will draw more fans than the 12,000 who could fit in the Joyce Center. 
"Given the fact that [the Penn State game] is the largest demand in the history of Notre Dame football tickets in general, you would suspect there would 
By MEG HAN WONS 
News Writer 
The new Notre Dame institu­tional spot aired before half­time during the Georgia Tech game Saturday and features three Notre Dame alums who are "champions" in their fields -a much more secular approach than last year's ·con­troversial "Candle" spot. 
The 30-second commercial spins off the common Notre Dame catchphrase "Play Like a Champion Today" and show­cases alums Mark Monahan, 
B.S. '96; Judge Ann Williams, 
J.D. '75; and Robert Gwadz, B.S. '62 and Ph.D '70. 
Monahan is an emergency room physician, Williams sits on the U.S. Court of Appeals and Gwadz is a researcher at the National Institutes of Health. 
The spot shows each of the alums in their workplaces with their own modified "Play Like 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 


Members encourage diversity discussions 
By KATHLEEN McDONNELL 
News Writer 
Student leaders brain­stormed ideas on how to cre­ate a more inclusive Notre Dame family at Tuesday's Council of Representatives 
(COR) meeting. 

"My roommate fs African American, and already this year she has had people auto­matically assume she's an athlete here -which she is 
see COR/page 8 
a Champion Today" signs ­heal, judge and research like a champion, respectively -then concludes with a quote from University President Father John Jenkins: "If we are afraid to be different ... how can we make a difference in the world?" 
Vice President for Public Affairs and Communication Hilary Crnkovich said the new commercial aims to show alumni leading in their own lives and integrating their Notre Dame education in their successes. 
"The concept was one that had been presented to us last year," Crnkovich said. 
The new institutional spot follows last year's controver­sial "Candle" ad, which fea­tured a female high school stu­dent lighting candles in prayer at a church. At the conclusion of the commercial, the girl is shown holding an acceptance 
see AD/page 8 
N DSMCOBSERVER.COM 
esc picks theme for progra111s 
Economic justice will be addressed in events 
By BECKY HOGAN 
News Writer 
While the Campus Labor Action Project focuses on eco­nomic issues within the Notre Dame community, the Center for Social Concerns is taking a wider lens to the problem of poverty by making its theme for the year "Economic Justice For All." 
The theme derives from the document "Economic Justice For All," a piece written in 1986 at the U.S. Conference of Catholic bishops that addresses the devastating reality of poverty throughout the world. 
"We chose the document as our theme because we want­ed to look at how Notre Dame can look at poverty and the needs of the community through the lens of Catholic social teaching," said Bill Purcell, associate director of Catholic Social Tradition and Practice. 
The CSC will use the issues addressed in the document to shape many of the events, service learning seminars, lectures and forums it spon­sors throughout the year. The Justice Education Team, along with Father Bill Lies, 
see CSC/page 4 



Speaker addresses jihad 
By JOHN TIERNEY 
News Writer 
While the title of Karim Douglas Craw's lecture Tuesday afternoon was "Building Muslim Hearts and Minds," he ended up providing insight into the hearts and minds of people of all spiritual backgrounds. 
Crow, an associate profes­sor of Contemporary Islam at the Institute of Defense and Strategic Studies in Singapore, said he believes the problems faced by Muslims are human prob­lems -the unwillingness both to face the truth and to see in terms of complex realities instead of simpli­fied dogmas. 
These human problems translate into the Muslim community, according to Crow, in the form of funda­mentalists. 
see ISLAM/page 9 



PHIL HUDELSON!The Observer 
Liz Kozlow, left, Steve Cartwright, center and Sheldon Dutes talk about ways to increase cultural awareness Thursday. 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, September 6, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Feels like home 
I cannot say enough good things about living off-campus. Granted, driving to class is a pain (although I'm batting 1.000 on attendance thus far), but the daily adven­tures in my life more than make up for the 
15 extra minutes K t G 1
of commute time a e a es in my day. And to 
Assistant Sports 
be honest, when 
Editor
your earliest class is at 11 a.m., that 15 minutes is probably a worthwhile sacri­fice. 
My first and favorite off-campus adven­ture is going grocery shopping. This sounds lame until you realize the endless possibilities that grocery shopping offers. Racing other shoppers for the last chicken­and-wild-rice Lean Cuisine when Martin's is running a 5-for-$10 special on those delectable frozen meals is a thrill than only a true supermarket aficionado can experi­ence. 
In this vein, Martin's is by far my favorite grocery store, both for its convenient loca­tion and the deliciousness of its Side Door Deli. Don't feel like cooking? (An odd feel­ing at the supermarket, but I'm not judg­ing.) Try a delicious panini sandwich, soup-to-go, the salad bar or a Ready Made Meal. 
Seriously, I could dedicate a whole col­umn to Martin's. And their muffins. Particularly the chocolate-chip ones. After pulling off the Indiana Turnpike on August 18, Belmont Beverage wa.<; obviously my first stop. But a close second was Martin's -to pick up my Advantage Card, of course. 
In short, I highly recommend the won­derful world of Martin's to the discerning grocery shopper. 
Oosely related to grocery shopping is its end result: Cooking. Although I am confi­dent that my housemates and I will soon tire of making delicious meals from scratch -and I admit it's only really happened a few times in the last three weeks-there's something about sitting around a table together that evokes a real feeling of family and togetherness. 
Five girls around the kitchen may take feminism back several decades, but I get a really rewarding feeling from the team­work of making a meal both nutritious and delicious. Or maybe that's the fact that, in the Italian style, wine is an important part ofour dinners together. Either way, it's a nice feeling. So is laying on the couch wearing "turkey pants" afterwards, in fact. Which brings me to the next great part of living off campus: Space. 
I absolutely love having a room to myself. On the walls hang my dad's old Zahm interhall football jersey, circa 1978, signed photos ofPaul Hornung and Rocky Bleier and a Luxembourg flag. There's also a fake plant that occupies a special place in my heart, mostly due to Dad's mocking of the frivolousness of it. Either way, Tmy Room is a great place for studying, relax­ing and watching "Flavor of Love." 
In short, I highly recommend you find yourself a good group of people and move off campus. 
While it is unlikely that you will be lucky enough to find a house directly between Rocco's and Oub 23, with off-the-street­parking, a porch swing and women asking for "money for a cab ... okay, or a beer" showing up on your doorstep at all hours -wait, that might not be a positive -if your experience is anything like mine has been thus far, it may well be the best year of your life. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD YOU LIKE TO SEE AT A FOOTBALL PEP RALLY? 





Bryan Marek  Dampier D'Ugard  Christian Galvan  Caitlin Soule  Sarah Davidson  
senior Knott  junior Morrisey  sophomore Keenan  junior Farley  junior PE  

"Snakes. In the "Charlie Weis "Brady Quinn "Brady Quinn, "Charlie Weis, stadium." beating up the running plays without a shirt without a shirt
,,,

opposing team's with the band. " on. mascot." 

CHRISTIAN SAGARDIA!The Observer 

A banner advertising the Dillon Pep Rally hangs out the men's dorm Tuesday. The comical event, traditionally scheduled the Thursday before the season's first home football game, will be held on South Quad outside Dillon Thursday at 7 p.m. 
OFFBEAT 

Nude teens raising Martin. here can pay for their cafe­eyebrows in Vermont By most accounts, the teria sloppy joes with their 
BRATTLEBORO, Vt. -stripping started on a whim fingers. Nudity isn't new here. in early summer when a Rome City Schools is Usually it bares itself in young woman sat naked on switching to a scanning sys­more subtle places than a a park bench, Martin said. tem that lets students use downtown parking lot, Then another woman start­their fingerprints to access though. ed taking her shirt o!f down­their accounts. In the past, 
This summer, a group of town. students had to punch in teenagers has disrobed near A music festival promoting their pin numbers. restaurants, bookstores and nudity and rebelliousness set "The finger's better galleries, igniting a debate up in May in a downtown because all you've got to do about whether this bohemi­parking lot and attracted is put your fmger in, and you an southern Vermont town nude hula hoopers, Martin don't have to do the number should ban a practice that said. and get mixed up," said has been tolerated until now. Adrianna Harris, a second 
"Brattleboro tends to be a Kids buy lunches with grader at Anna K. Davie laid-back town and pretty scans of fingers Elementary School. accepting of the unusual, but ROME, Ga. -The never­this is really pushing limits," ending march of technology Information compiled said Police Chief John now means school children from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 




'······························ (f
.. ··.•·.•··· ..··I1\·· ·.· ·
•···..·.····.····.··.·.···•·.·.··.·.· ..•· ......••.. H·.·.w·.·.·.·.. ·.. .. .. .. 
....I <( 
(,) 


0 

HIGH 75 HIGH 65 HIGH 78 HIGH 80 HIGH 74 HIGH 77
...I LOW 53 LOW 53 LOW 60 LOW 60 LOW 53 LOW 60 
Atlanta 84 I 63 Boston 70 I 61 Chicago 76 I 54 Denver 83 I 53 Houston 89 I 66 Los Angeles 85 I 69 Minneapolis 79 I 55 New York 74 I 63 Philadelphia 75 I 64 Phoenix 100 I 80 Seattle 78 I 53 St. Louis 80 I 58 Tampa 90 I 74 Washington 78 I 62 

on.f" 
IN BRIEF 
The Office of Multicultural Affairs will present "Which counts more: Race, Gender or Class?" today from noon to 1 
p.m. in Vander Vennet Theatre. 
The 2006 Endowed Fall Lecture Series will kick off with "Welcoming the Stranger: Hospitality in the Christian Tradition" featuring Ana Maria Pineda of Santa Clara University at 7:30 p.m. today in Le Mans Hall's Stapleton Lounge. 
The 2006 Endowed Fall Lecture Series will host a "Special Follow-up Event: Immigration Issues: A Catholic Common Ground Conversation" Thursday, at 
3:30 p.m. in Le Mans Hall's Stapleton Lounge. 
The Charles E. Sheedy Award for Excellence in Teaching will be given to Professor Christian Moevs of the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures Thursday at 4 p.m. in the McKenna Hall auditori­um. As the recipient of this year's award, Professor Moevs will deliver a brief address on teaching and learning. A recep­tion will follow the presenta­tion. 
Student Comedy Night at Legends will begin at 10 p.m. Thursday. ND/SMCIHCC student ID required to enter. 
The traditional marching band step-off will be at 4:30 
p.m. Friday in front of the Main Building, heading through campus to its practice in the Joyce Center parking lot. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

Wednesday, September 6, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Rockne Men1orial gets nevv gyn1 equipn1ent 
Fitness centers expect frequent student use 
By ADAM HEMBREE 
News Writer 
Members of the Notre Dame community used the University's fitness centers 350,000 times last year, and both the Rockne Memorial and Rolfs Recreation Center have taken measures to respond to the high volume of users. 
Several new workout bikes were added at the Rock, and which "truly extends the [machine's]life," Phillips said. 
Kara O'Leary, Assistant Director of Recreational Facilities, said the Rock was used over 100,000 times last year and Rolfs recorded over 250,000 uses in the same period. 
Ninety percent of the student body and 47 percent of the facul­ty and staff use the equipment. over the course of a year, O'Leary said. 
''I'm here about three times a week," said freshman Mike Narvaez, who plays interhall football. "Rolfs has some really nice stuff that's bet­ter than my high 
although Rolfs did school's."
"Rolfs has some 
not get any new Phillips said that
really nice stuff
equipment this whether or not one summe~ there are that's better than was an athlete in plans in motion to high school, the
my high school's." 
obtain three new recreation facilities treadmills later provide ample this year. opportunity "to 
The weight Mike Narvaez continue or begin a room in the Rock new activity."
freshman 
was also rearranged to maximize space efficiency, said Jennie Phillips, Assistant Director of Fitness and Facilities for RecSports. _ 
Phillips said the department usually tries to obtain a new line of equipment on a yearly basis. 
Most machines, especially motorized equipment, require frequent upkeep, she said. As a result, RecSports does quarterly maintenance on their machines, 
111111......._ 
"Physical activity 
is so important to 

overall health," Phillips said. 
For those who frequent the fit­ness facilities, there is a comment sheet available for users. The member feedback allows man­agement to "get a feel for what patrons use ... what they like and don't like," Phillips said. 
Contact Adam Hembree at ahembree@nd.edu 
Talk discusses I.T. ethics 
Start of Berges Lecture Series focuses on tech companies in China 
By STEVE KERINS 
News Writer 

While many people think the Chinese government has total autonomy over its citizens ­that's not the case when it comes to freedom of expres­sion and multinational corpo­rations operating in China. 
The Berges Lecture Series launched its string of six talks on business ethics with a panel discussion Tuesday evening entitled, "Freedom on the Internet and the Ethical Responsibility of I.T. compa­nies in China," with this issue as its heart. George Enderle, the O'Neil professor of interna­tional business ethics, moder­ated the discussion. 
Lionel Jensen, department chair of East Asian languages and literature, was the evening's first speaker. Jensen provided an overview of issues relevant to the use of the Internet in China today. 
"Technology itself may be value-neutral, but it is always employed in a specific cultural context," Jensen said. 
Describing Chinese govern­ment policies directed at infor­mation control, he said, "Rights in such a context are better understood as privi­leges." 
Jensen said Internet access is now widely available in China, especially for young, educated people. He also 
described the rapid growth of information technology opera­tions in China, which has led to conflict with the govern­ment. 
"The [Chinese Communist Party] has encouraged the use of the World Wide Web," he said, but it is less able to regu­late it than it was before the advent of blogging capability. 
Jensen also spoke about the government's latest attempts to restrict the flow of informa­tion across its borders, which he said were "backed up by real policing power." 
It is against this background, Jensen said, that many inter­national companies are willing to cooperate with state censor­ship to increase their Chinese market share. 
Father Oliver Williams, director of the Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business, followed Jensen. He compared the current situation businesses face in China with that encountered by multina­tional corporations in South Africa before the demise of apartheid. 
Williams said freedom of expression, freedoms to receive and impart informa­tion and right to privacy are among the key human rights issues relevant in the Chinese business environment. 
"If [multinational companies] were complicit in human rights abuses ... it would be unethical for them to stay [in China]," he said. 
Williams also touched on mechanisms for change in the Chinese government's approach to these issues, not­ing its increased emphasis on lifting Chinese citizens out of poverty. 
The final speaker theology professor David Clairmont, who examined how Catholic moral theology might be applied to the issues of Internet freedoms and interna­tional business in China. 
Clairmont posed questions on the morality of accepting restrictions on human rights imposed by the Chinese gov­ernment. 
"[For corporations) to abide by the laws of the land in which they do business is to be complicit...in a qualified good," he said. "Compliance with law has an element of tes­timony ... giving credence to the laws that exist." 
Clairmont said "a further examination of our laws about freedom of information" is needed in the current debate. 
The Berges Lecture Series is presented.each fall by Notre Dame's Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business and the Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide. The next lecture, entitled "What's Hot in Business Ethics," is scheduled for Sept. 18. 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd.edu 
SENIOR PORT ITS! Next Week is the FINAL WEEK. DON'T DELAY!!!! Sign up on the internet NOW@ www.LaurenStudios.com to ensure your place. in the 2007 DOME Yearbook (This year, for the first time, the 2007 DOME Yearbook will be printed entirely in color, INCLUDING your Senior Portrait!) Who: Class of 2007 Students ':Vhen: Pictures taken Now till-Sept. 15 ONLY! Where: La Fortune 108 · Why: To be in your 2007 Notre Dame Dome Yearbook Renzember to Sign Up Today! www.LaurenStudios.com  

________________--:,____
___j 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 6, 2006 
Stadiu01 
continued from page 1 
pate in the pep rally. 
Last year, pep rally organizers started to require that non-stu­dents have tickets to get into the Joyce Center -a rule not in place on Friday, Heisler said, due to the "virtually unlimited seating" at the stadium. But after the USC game last October, attendance at pep rallies declined, and event organizers overestimated the number of students who would attend later pep rallies. · 
This year, organizers will make student-seating designa­tions one week at a time after· they estimate what the student interest is for the rally, Heisler said. 
"I think the track record over the course of years suggests that those numbers do vary from week to we~;Jk," Heisler said. 
"That is probably the biggest challenge, trying to do every­thing we can to protect what the seating is for students." 
Cordelli said the 1-IPC, the Student Activities Organization and the athletic department have been discussing ways to encourage students to attend rallies later in the season when the game hype is not as intense. 
"The issues with the pep ral­lies and the time frame -we are doing all we can to have the students not have to get tickets," Cordelli said. "It can be frustrat­ing standing in line, then sitting there for 30 minutes waiting to start. 
"With this season being maybe a national championship season, students are more excited, so we have tried to schedule the times to make it a little less time consuming -but some things just can't be avoided." 
It's a logistical impossibility to avoid a waiting period between when students enter the Joyce Center and when the rally starts, lleisler said. 
"It's just not physically possi­ble," he said, "to think that if you are going to start a pep rally around six o'clock, you can open the doors 10 minutes before­hand and expect everyone to lind a seat." 
Last year, to cut down on entry time, the organizers stag­gered the entry times and moved the approximately 12,000 attendees through differ­ent entrances of the JACC, he said. 
Friday's pep rally will be the first one senior Ann Verwilst has attended in more than a year. Verwilst said she always goes to the rallies if she can, but last year she was abroad, and her freshman year physics lab con­flicted with the rally time. 
"I think everything about them is great," Verwilst said. "It just gets a little repetitive." 
Freshman Tom Dybicz said he is definitely going to the first 
esc 
continued from page 1 
executive director of the esc. chose .this year's theme. 
Sean Agniel, a graduate stu­dent in the Master of Divinity Program helping to coordi­nate many of the events spon­sored by the esc this year, said the 20th anniversary of the document "calls for ongo­ing inquiry and demands that the document be revisited." 
"[This year's theme] reminds us that our salvation is tied up with the salvation of the world [and calls] us to think about who we are as Christians," Agniel said. 
Purcell said the CSC plans to use the document as "a reminder that issues of eco­nomics have values behind them." 
"There are multiple ways of exammmg poverty and we wanted to do it in an interdis­ciplinary way" he said. 
Purcell said the lectures, forums and other events planned throughout the year are not only for students but also for faculty and members of the local community. He hopes this year's theme will help people look beyond the Notre Dame community, he said, to consider national and international issues of eco­nomic justice. 
One of the first events spon­sored by the esc in connec­tion with "Economic Justice for All" will be a documentary presented by the Higgins Center Labor History Film Series called "Meeting Face to Face: The Iraq-U.S. Solidarity Tour." This 27-minute docu­mentary will be shown in the I-lesburgh Center Auditorium Monday. 
Several students involved 
with the esc will also be pres­ent at the Notre Dame Academic Forum on Sept. 14 to discuss the global health crisis. 
In October, Pulitzer-prize winning journalist and author David Shipler will give a lec­ture on his book, "The Working Poor." The CSC and Mendoza College of Business will co-host the lecture. 

The CSC chose a theme as the basis of the year's service opportunities and seminars to try to engage all members of the Notre Dame community in issues of poverty and econom­ic justice, Purcell said. If this approach works well, he said, the esc will plan on selecting different themes in the future. 
"We have already begun talking about themes for the upcoming year," he said. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 


IL'Dia-9tt REDEEM THIS COUPON FOR 
,
1l~s...


dill]?OOXffi) *LID if!l[p (574) 675-9999 
ONUNE COUPON CODE= C1676639 
www.dineinonline.com 
pep rally of the year to get excit­ed about the Penn State game. 
"I don't really know much about it because I've never been to one," he said, "but I've heard they're good." 
Friday's pep rally will be simi­lar to the USC pep rally last October, which was the last one held in the stadium, Cordelli said. Before USC, the last pep rally held in the stadium was in 2000 when the Irish played Nebraska. 

Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


Saint Mary's College Center for Spirituality 
The 2006 Endowed Fall Lecture Series 




Brlng1ng Tradltlon 
All lectures: 7:30p.m.
Stapleton Lmnge, Le Mans Hall


Tc L•t 
Saint Mary's College 

0 1 e 


Wednesday, September 6 Ana Maria Pineda, Santa Clara University 
Welcoming the Stranger: Hospitality in the Christian Tradition Special follow-up event: Thursday, Sq)kmber 7 
Pineda 

Immigrari(m Issues: 
A Catholic Common Ground Conversation (3:30p.m. in Stapleton LJUnge) 
Wednesday, October 25 
Claire Wolfteich, Boston University 
Wolfteich 
Women, Spirituality and the Workplace 

Monday, November 6 
Saint Catherine of Siena An impersonation by actress Nancy Murray, O.P. 
Voices from d1e Past, WisdornforToday, Hope fcrr Tr.mwrrow 
Mum1~ 

Saint MatsColleg!:: 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Center for Spirituality www.saintmarys.edu/-cfs (574) 284-4636 • e-mail: astrotma@saintmarys.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Monday, September 6, 2006 CoMPJLED FROM THE ()BsrRvrR'S vVIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Government pushes professor purge 
TEHRAN, Iran-Iran's hard-line president urged students Tuesday to push for a purge of liberal and secular university teachers, another sign of his determination to strengthen Islamic fundamentalism in the country. 
With his call echoing the rhetoric of the nation's 1979 Islamic revolution, Ahmadinejad appears determined to remake Iran by reviving the fundamentalist goals pursued under the republic's late founder, Ayatollah Huhollah Khomeini. 
Iran still has strong moderate factions, and since taking office a year ago Ahmadinejad has moved to replace pragmatic veterans in the government and diplomatic corps with former military commanders and inexperi­enced religious hard-liners. 
50 Taliban dead in NATO strikes 
KANDAHAH, Afghanistan -Artillery and airstrikes killed between 50 and 60 suspected Taliban militants Tuesday, and NATO's civilian chief warned that insurgency-wracked Afghanistan could again become a failed state if the international community loses the battle to stabilize it. 
The U.S. troops, operating under NATO command, clashed with the militants in Panjwayi district of Kandahar province, where an offensive began over the weekend to flush out hundreds of Taliban fighters. NATO has already reported more than 200 Taliban killed in the operation. 
Maj. Quentin Innis, a NATO spokesman, said the troops had identified Taliban positions and the two sides had exchanged fire. He said the estimate of 50 to 60 killed was based on reports from troops looking through "weapons sights and other observation devices." 
NATIONAL NEWS 

McClellan resigns as Medicare chief 
WASHINGTON -After eight months over­seeing the new Medicare drug benefit, the biggest change since the health program's beginning, Mark McClellan said Tuesday it was time to move on. 
McClellan. 43, has been with the Bush administration from the start, and he has been at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services since March 2004. 
"My kids don't remember me in a job where I got home regularly for dinner. It's just time," said McClellan, the father of 7­year-old twin girls. "We've gotten a lot accomplished and I'm very confident with the track the agency is on." 

Florence forms in Atlantic Ocean 
MIAMI -Tropical Storm Florence formed far out in the open Atlantic on Tuesday, and forecasters said it will proba­bly become a hurricane. 
But they said it was too soon to tell whether the sixth named storm of the hur­ricane season would reach the United States. 
Florence had sustained wind near 45 mph, 6 mph over the threshold for a tropi­cal storm. The minimum for a hurricane is 74 mph. 
"Our forecast does have it becoming a hurricane by Friday morning -minimal hurricane, Category 1," National Hurricane Center meteorologist Mark Willis said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Police officer hurt in cruiser crash 
FHANKFOHT, Ind. -A semitrailer plowed into a state police cruiser stopped along Interstate 65 on Tuesday, crushing it into another truck as a trooper sat inside. 
The trooper escaped without life-threaten­ing injures, but suffered a broken vertebrae and many cuts, police said. 
Sgt. Hich Kelly had pulled over a semitrail­er on the shoulder of northbound I -65 about a mile north of Indiana 28 and was inspect­ing it from his patrol car when the crash happened at about 12:40 p.m. 

Bush quotes Osama's strategy 
President cites previously unreleased documents about intentions for Iraq; world 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Quoting repeatedly from 
Osama bin Laden, 
President Bush said 
Tuesday that pulling U.S. 
troops out of Iraq would 
fulfill the terrorist 
leader's wishes and pro­
pel him into a more pow­
erful global threat in the 
mold of Adolf Hitler. 

With two months until 
an Election Day that 
hinges largely on national 
security, Bush laid out 
bin Laden's vision in · detail, including new rev­
elations from previously 
unreported documents. 
Voters were never more 
united behind the presi­
dent than in the after­
math of the Sept. 11 
attacks, and his speech 
was designed to convince 
Americans that the threat 
has not faded five years 
later. 

Democrats have been 
increasing their criticism 
of the president's policies 
in Iraq as the congres­
sional elections 
approach, with the latest 
salvo coming in a letter 
Monday that suggested he 
fire Defense Secretary 
Donald H.umsfeld. 

The White House reject­
ed the idea. 

"It's not going to hap­
pen," spokesman Tony 
Snow said in a lengthy 
rebuttal to the 
Democratic letter. 
"Creating Don Humsfeld 
as a bogeyman may make 
for good politics but 
would make for very 
lousy strategy at this 
time." 

To make the adminis­
tration's strategy clear, 
the White House on 
Tuesday published a 23­
page booklet called 
"National Strategy for 
Combating Terrorism," 
which Bush described as 
an unclassified version of 
the strategy he's been 
pursuing since Sept. 11, 
2001. The booklet's con­
clusion: "Since the Sept. 
11 attacks, America is 
safer, but we are not yet 
safe." 

Democrats dismissed 

Bush's actions as a public relations strategy that avoided real solutions. 
"A new glossy strategy paper doesn't take the place of real change that will make our country safer," said Sen. Russ Feingold, D-Wis. 
"If President Bush had unleashed the American military to do the job at Tora Bora four years ago and killed Osama bin Laden, he wouldn't have to quote this barbarian's words today," said Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass. "Because President Bush lost focus on the killers who attacked us and instead launched a disas­trous war in Iraq, today Osama bin Laden and his henchmen still find sanc­tuary in the no man's land between Afghanistan and Pakistan, where they still plot attacks against America." 
Bush's speech was the second in a series linked to next week's anniver­sary of the Sept. 11 attacks. It was delivered to the Military Officers Association of America in a hotel ballroom filled with U.S. troops, includ­ing several injured in the war, and with diplomatic representatives of foreign countries that have suf­fered terrorist attacks. 
Bush planned a third speech Wednesday from the White House, laying out his plan to change the law so that detainees held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, can be tried for crimes before military commissions. 
Bush argued Tuesday 
that history will look favorably on his currently unpopular war strategy. 
"History teaches that underestimating the words of evil and ambi­tious men is a terrible mistake," the president said. "Bin Laden and his terrorist allies have made their intentions as clear as Lenin and Hitler before them. The ques­tion is: Will we listen? Will we pay attention to what these evil men say?" 
To make his case, the White House cited previ­ously unreleased docu­ments including a copy of the al-Qaida charter found by coalition forces in Afghanistan that says hostilities will continue until everyone believes in Allah. 
MEXICO 

Calderon named president-elect 
Associated Press 

MEXICO CITY -Felipe Calderon was declared president-elect Tuesday after two months of uncertainty, but his ability to rule effectively remained in doubt with rival Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador vowing to lead a parallel leftist government from the streets. 
The unanimous decision by the Federal Electoral Tribunal reject­ed allegations of systematic fraud and awarded Calderon the presi­dency by 233,831 votes out of 41.6 million cast in the July 2 elections -a margin of 0.56 percent. The ruling cannot be appealed. 
Calderon now must win over millions of Mexicans angry that President Vicente Fox, who is from Calderon's party, didn't make good on promises of sweeping change -and fend off thousands of radi­calized leftists who say they will stop at nothing to undermine his presidency. 
Lopez Obrador, whose support is dwindling but becoming more rad­ical, has said he won't recognize the new government and vows to block Calderon from taking power Dec. 1. Protesters outside the tri­bunal wept as the decision was announced and set off firecrackers that shook the building. 
"We aren't going to let him gov­ern!" Thomas Jimenez, a 30-year­old law student, screamed as hun­dreds of protesters threw eggs and trash at the co"urthouse. 

page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, September 6, 2006 

Wall Street Career Forum Thursday, September 7, 2006 6:00pm McKenna Hall 
Visit the Goldman Sachs breakout room to learn about career opportunities and network with our people. 
Full-time Application deadline: Wednesday, September 13,2006 Apply online at gs.com/careers and through your career service office. 

© Goldman, Sachs & Co. 2006. All rights reserved. Goldman Sachs is an equal opportunity employer. 

-

Wednesday, September 6, 2006 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

11,469.28 +5.13
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,869 162 1,375 2,114,477,545 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  +0.97  +0.38  39.46  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +0.55  +0.11  19.99  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +0.60  +0.03  5.02  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.89  -0.23  25.61  
JDS UNIPHASE CP UDSU)  -2.64  -0.06  2.21  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  + 1.16  +0.055  4.781  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.72  -0.035  4.850  
30-YEAR BOND  + 1.21  +0.059  4.932  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.98  +0.046  4.726  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.07  69.19  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -1.60  632.60  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.45  91.95  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  116.3750  
EURO  0.7802  
POUND  0.5278  
CANADIAN$  1.1 I 18  

IN BRIEF 
Intel cans 10 percent of its workforce 
SAN JOSE, Calif. -Chip-maker Intel Corp. said Tuesday it will eliminate 10,500 jobs -about 10 percent of its work force -through layoffs, attrition and the sale of underperforming business groups as part of a massive restructuring. 
The Santa Clara-based company said most of the job cuts this year will come from its management, marketing and infor­mation technology ranks, and will expand in 2007 to include manufacturing, design and other segments. 
The cuts are expected to save the compa­ny $3 billion per year by 2008. Severance costs are expected to total $200 million. 
The world's largest chip maker is fighting to reverse sinking profits and make it more efficient as it seeks to regain market share stolen by smaller rival Advanced Micro Devices Inc. 
"These actions, while difficult, are essen­tial to Intel becoming a more agile and effi­cient company, not just for this year or the next, but for years to come," Chief Executive Paul Otellini said in a statement. 

Viacom's CEO Tom Freston booted 
NEW YORK-The board ofViacom Inc., frustrated with the media company's lagging stock price, has ousted Tom Freston as CEO and replaced him with Philippe Dauman, a former Viacom executive and longtime board member. Chairman Sumner Redstone said Tuesday he hopes the new team will be more aggressive and entrepreneurial. 
Dauman's business partner Thomas Dooley, another board member, is also assuming an active role with the newly created title of chief administrative officer. Freston had only been in the job since the beginning of the year, when Viacom split up with CBS Corp. 
The news of Freston's sudden departure got a poor reception among investors, who pushed the company's shares down $2.08, or 5.6 per­cent, to close at $34.89 in heavy trading Tuesday on the New York Stock Exchange. "We think that it was too early for the board to replace Mr. Freston, who is a seasoned media executive," Citigroup analyst Jason Bazinet wrote in a note to clients. 
.----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS 
page 7 

Gulf of Mexico oil field tapped 
Discovery boosts nation's reserves by more than half; biggest find in a generation 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -A trio of oil companies led by Chevron Corp. has tapped a petroleum pool deep beneath the Gulf of Mexico that could boost the nation's reserves by more than 50 percent. A test well indicates it could be the biggest new domestic oil discovery since Alaska's Prudhoe Bay a generation ago. 
But the vast oil deposit roughly four miles beneath the ocean floor won't signif­icantly reduce. the country's dependence on foreign oil and it won't help lower prices at the pump anytime soon. 
"It's a nice positive, but the U.S. still has a big dif­ference between its con­sumption and indigenous production," said Art Smith, chief executive of energy consultant John S. Herold. "We'll still be importing more than 50 percent of our oil needs." 
Chevron on Tuesday esti­mated the 300-square-mile region where its test well sits could hold between 3 billion and 15 billion bar­rels of oil and natural gas liquids. The U.S. consumes roughly 5.7 billion barrels of crude-oil in a year. 
It will take many years and tens of billions of dol­lent, according to the U.S. 20,000 feet under the sea "This could not have hap­lars to bring the newly Energy Department. But floor below 7,000 feet of pened in a better tapped oil to market, but the U.S. imports most of its water for a total depth of place,"Devon CEO Larry the discovery carries partic­oil from abroad and its 28,175 feet. Nichols said in a conference ular importance for the overall supply is tiny when Chevron has a 50 percent call with analysts. industry at a time when compared with, say, Saudi stake in the field, while The successful test well Western oil and gas compa­Arabia, whose reserves partners Statoil ASA of does not mean a huge sup­nies are finding fewer exceed 250 billion barrels. Norway and Devon Energy ply of cheap oil will hit the opportunities in politically Chevron's well, called Corp. of Oklahoma City own market anytime soon. unstable parts of the world, "Jack 2," was drilled about 25 percent each. Oppenheimer & Co. ana­including the Middle East, 5.3 miles below sea level. During the test, the Jack lyst Fadel Gheit estimated Africa and Russia. The well was drilled in 2 well sustained a flow rate that the first production for 
The proximity of the Gulf the VValker Ridge area of of more than 6,000 barrels the Chevron-led partner­of Mexico to the world's the Gulf, about 270 miles of oil per day, but analysts ship might not come on line largest oil consuming southwest of New Orleans and executives believe the until after 2010, depending nation makes it especially and 175 miles off the coast payoff could be much larg­on how many more test attractive. And it could of Louisiana. It followed up er than that. wells the companies drill. bring pressure on Florida a discovery made by The financial implications That said, many companies, and other states to relax Chevron in 2004. of the prospect are most including BP PLC, Exxon limits they have placed on San Ramon, Calif.-based significant for independent Mobil Corp. and Anadarko drilling in their offshore Chevron said the well set a oil and gas producer Devon, Petroleum Corp., stand to waters for environmental variety of records, including­which is the smallest of the benefit from their own proj­and tourism reasons. the deepest well successful­three partners. Devon's ects in the so-called lower 
The country's reserves ly tested in the Gulf of shares soared about 12 tertiary, a rock formation currently are more than 29 Mexico. Chevron said the percent on the New York that is 24 million to 65 mil­billion barrels of oil equiva-well was drilled more than Stock Exchange. lion years old. 

Ford CEO steps down after 5 years 
Associated Press 

American operations failed to turn went outside instead to select aero­
around. The latest plan, announced in space veteran Jim McNerney, then the 
DEARBORN, Mich.-Bill Ford, who January, would cut up to 30,000 jobs 3M Co. chief executive. 
struggled for five years to steer Ford and close 14 facilities by 2012. Boeing on Tuesday named Scott 
Motor Co. toward financial stability, Bill Ford said it was time for some­Carson to replace Mulally as president 
has stepped down as chief executive of one with experience in turning around of its commercial airplanes unit. 
the company founded by his great a troubled company, tacitly acknowl­Carson, 60, had been vice president of 
grandfather and is being replaced by edging his own efforts were falling sales for the Seattle-based division and 
top Boeing executive Alan Mulally. short. The company's stock price has is a 34-year veteran of the company. 
Ford will remain as executive chair­fallen almost 40 percent since he Bill Ford said he began talking with 
man, the company said Tuesday in a became CEO, and its share of the U.S. Mulally in July, which suggested the 
surprise announcement. and global car market continues to. be change was something he had some 
The change comes more than seven drop. time to plan instead of it bPing abrupt­
months into a restructuring, which is Mulally, 61, was widely praised for ly forced on him. Ford is the great­
the second under Bill Ford's watch being a key architect of the resurgence grandson of company founder Henry 
and has so far failed to revive the of Boeing Co.'s commercial airplanes Ford, and his family still owns a 40 
nation's No. 2 automaker. Under the unit over the past couple of years. He percent voting stake in the company. 
first plan, Ford closed five plants and was a top candidate for the Boeing Any leadership plan would require its 
cut 35,000 jobs, but its North CEO job last year, but the company assent. 
-------------------------------------------------------. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 6, 2006 
"A lot of times our commu­Dutes. President's Council does prejudiees. COR members dis­nity is a very polite communi­"We can't measure cultural require multicultural events cussed the possibility of
COR 

ty," she said. "We're afraid to openness by the number of for dorms to be eligible for improving the diversity por­rock the boat, to discuss 'Soul Food Dinners' planned monetary awards -provided tion of the mandatory
continued from page 1 

important issues, in fears of and the number of Spike Lee by Vice President for Student Contemporary Topics portion 
offending someone. So instead movies watched," he said. Affairs Father Mark Poorman of the physical education rota­not," sophomore class presi­nothing gets said." Dutes said the problem is -COB members agreed that tion, but a limited time frame dent Lulu Meraz said. "I know And without dialogue, rep­that students do not want to multicultural awareness must for the class makes thorough I've had people come up to me resentatives said, the prob­delve into intense, open dis­be improved in the dorm set­discussion diflicult. and comment on my being a lems persist. cussion or confront serious ting. Chief executive assistant Liz Mexican." Senior class president issues. Dutes recalled experiences Brown explained that the 
Meraz raised the problem of Sheldon Dutes explained how "Whenever I tried to open a of cultural insensitivity in his University has a committee racial insensi­many dorms real discussion it got turned dorm and said he drws not feel looking into the possibility of tivity at last miss opportu­around," he tho problem mandating a Cultural week's meeting. 'There are people who nities for said. "I can be solved Competency class for fresh­While possibly change when appeared Ito with more man in a few years. A full
have a really hard time "/ don't think any more
unintentional, they plan be I tho hypnr­extensive semester-long class, she said, the tension here. We need everyone "multicultur­se,nsitiv,n training could change multicultural would give professors ample caused by this to see that this is a al" dorm minority and anything. One person commissioner time for in-depth coverage of type of racism is events. the discussion or HA train­the sociological issues pres­
family and that there with one comment can
what COR mem­"I know my went no ing. ent. bers targeted in are no distinctions. " dorm [multi-where." change the atmosphere "If one per­Tuesday's dis­cultural] Student ofa situation. " son would In other COR news: cussion. events were Union treasur­stand up and + Tom Lamontagne was
Lulu Meraz
"There are activities like er Steve say, 'That approved as the Academic 
P e P1e w h sophomore class president Sheldon Dutes 
0 0 eating dinner Friend said the comment is Delegate for the College of have a really at Casa Del word 'multi­senior class president not eool,' Architeeture. hard time here," Meraz said. Rio -but without learning cultural' things could + Joey Brown was con­"We need everyone to see that anything about the Mexican makes stu-change," he firmed as the Sophomore this is a family and that there culture in the process," he dents feel like they're being said. "I don't think any more Class Liaison to Freshman are no distinctions." said. educated. Dorms should show training could change any­Class Council. 
Students are careful not to Students attended for a free a culturally interesting movie thing. One person with one + Byan Hieketts was named come across as racist, meal, and the "multicultural without the pretense of a 'cul­comment can change the Student Government Web site Pangborn senator Sheena experience" was more of a tural learning experience,' he atmosphern of a situation." administrator. Plamoottil said, but this some­joke than a reality, he said. explained. Many group members felt times may lead to a lack of Steve .Cartwright, COR liai­While II PC co-president freshman year was the place Contact Kathleen McDonnell real discussion. son from VOICE, agreed with Bryan Lowery said the Hall to start breaking down racial at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 
Ad 
continued from page 1 

envelope from the University. She then turns to the sky to pray. 
"Candle" sparked debate because some students and alumni felt it projected a far too narrow image of Notre Dame or suggested that faith alone could get an applicant into the University. 
When asked whether the "Candle" spot would run again, Crnkovich said it was likely the new spot would run all fall. 
"Every year, we try to pro­duce a fresh spot," she said. "Sometimes we choose to rotate in an old spot, but I think this year our intention is to use the 'Play Like a Champion' spot." 
Senior Sara Woolf labeled the spot "a big improvement" from last year's commercial. 
"I felt that last year's ad did­n't really show what Notre Dame is about," she said. 
And showing what Notre Dame is about is exactly what the University hopes to achieve. 
Notre Dame football is not only prime time television, Crnkovich said -it is also prime time for the University to market itself to a national audience. 
In addition to the new insti­tutional spot, Crnkovich said the University has produced "seven one-minute vignettes that focus on different academ­ic and research areas of excel­lence at the University. These vignettes are treated, in a sense, as one minute news sto­ries that will highlight these areas." 
She said the University's partnership with NBC enables this opportunity for additional media exposure, allowing the vignettes to air during regular commercial time. 
Contact Meghan Woos at mwons@nd.edu 
IRISH BED & BREAKFAST Four Miles North of ND Two bedron1ns. Private Bath, Two Night Minimum SI~().()() per night For reservation call: 1-;74-272-7179 





~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, September 6, 2006 The Observer + NEWS 
Isla01 
continued from page 1 
Crow said Islamic funda­mentalists "do not do critical analysis," but rather believe fate causes misfortunes when Muslims do not pray enough. 

This fundamentalist over­simplification is a result of "the lack of a 'deformist' men­tality in the Muslim world ­an anti-intellectual, anti­rational. and even an anti­spiritual mentality that rejects the most critical part [the spir­ituality] of the Muslim legacy," he said. 
A similar mentality can be seen in American culture, he said, in the oversimplified depictions of the "good West" battling the "fundamentalist Middle East," "totalitarianism" or "terrorism." The use of these broad terms, Crow said, is "unhealthy always, but dan­gerous when done by leaders." 
The primary oversimplifica­tion by Islamic fundamental­ists occurs regarding the sacred concept of the jihad, he said. 
"[Jihad fills a] legal, cultur­al, spiritual, political and mili­tary role. It is a form of sacri­fice and suffering by giving up one's 'inner life,"' Crow said. "[Jihad must bel a struggle for the welfare of others, not just for one's own transformation." 

Crow told the story of Abdul Ghaffar Khan, a Pakistani pacifist who worked with Gandhi to non-violently secure Indian independence from Britain, as one of the most successful historical jihads. 
"Jihad can be understood peacefully, but it has been submerged in headline·-grab­bing actions of destruction," Crow said, using the Khan story.­
Crow described himself as on a personal, intellectual jihad, which serves to "expand the mind and thoughts to see a concept." A peaceful jihad can also take the form of a moral, athletic or philosophical strug­gle, he said. 
Crow was born in Lebanon to American and Lebanese parents. He converted to Islam as an adult. Crow opened the lecture in "traditional Muslim fashion" with a prayer and stressed his own spirituality throughout the afternoon. 
"It is painful for a Muslim to talk of our troubles. Some say that we should only talk to other Muslims about the prob­lems," he said. "But it is too late to criticize ourselves only in private." 
Throughout the lecture, Crow emphasized two diver­gent paths that those on a jihad can take -the path of bloodshed, symbolized by ani­mal sacrifice and suicide bombers, or the path of spiri­tual development taken by Abdul Khan. 
"I do not think that God wants the spilling of our blood in sacrifice," he said. "Rather, I think that God wants the sweet smell of our spirit." 
Crow spoke to an audience mostly comprised of faculty, graduate students and mem­bers of the South Bend com­munity, as well as undergrad­uate students. The lecture was held in a Hesburgh Center seminar room with an over­flowing crowd. 
The attendance pleased Crow, who described his mate­rial as "a profoundly impor­tant issue that affects each and every one of us." 
Contact John Tierney at jtiemel@nd.edn 
page 9 


First artificial hearts approved by FDA 
Only patients close to death will use device 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON A 
Massachusetts company 
received federal approval 
Tuesday to sell the world's first 
fully implantable artificial 
heart. 
The 2-pound mechanical 
hearts would be used only in 
patients who are close to death 
and have no other treatment 
options. 
The Food and Drug Administration granted Abiomed Inc. a humanitarian exemption allowing it to sell the AbioCor artificial hearts, agency spokeswoman Susan Bro said. Surgeons likely will implant between 25 and 50 of the devices a year, though the company has approval to sell up to 4,000 annually, Bro said. 
"We're talking about a small 

NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS "W"ANTED 
BUYING & TRADING 
ALL SEASONS ALL GAMES & LOCATIONS 


18 YEARS CONFIDENTIAL SERVICE 
CASH PAID TODAY 
Preferred Tickets 234-5650 
group of end-stage patients, whose choice is between immediate death or new. inno­vative technology," said Dr. Daniel Schultz, director of the FDA's Center for Devices and Radiological Health. 
So far, the artificial heart has been tested in only 14 men. Two died from the operation, and another never regained consciousness. The rest sur­vived only an average of five months, though notably one patient lived 10 months follow­ing surgery, and another 17 months. The latter patient, Tom Christerson, died in February 2003 after moving home. 
The company said earlier that it would begin implanting the artificial hearts at five hos­pitals around the country once doctor training is complete. Unlike other permanent artifi­cial hearts, including the Jarvik-7 implanted in Barney Clark in 1982, the AbioCor is fully contained within the chest, with no outside wires. 
"I think as the technology improves, it's going to be a good option for people," said Dr. Laman Gray, a University of Louisville surgeon who was part of a team that implanted the first AbioCor. That surgery was done at Jewish Hospital in Louisville, which is expected to be among the five hospitals offering the mechanical hearts to patients. 
Abiomed is targeting men ­but not precluding women ­with heart failure who are too sick for a heart transplant, have exhausted other options and are likely to die within a month. The current device is too large for about 90 percent of U.S. women and many men. The company is developing a smaller and longer-lasting ver­sion. 
In 2005, an FDA panel of outside experts voted against recommending Abiomed be given permission to sell the device in limited numbers. At the time, the experts expressed concern that many AbioCor recipients suffered severe strokes, some fatal, that com­promised their final weeks. 
The FDA then worked with the company to refine the niche device. 
"At the end of the day, the FDA was convinced the spon­sor had met the bar," said Dr. Bram Zuckerman, director of the FDA's Division of Cardiovascular Devices. 
The company now believes a redesigned cuff on the devices will prevent two bars from coming into contact with human tissue. That contact was believed to be the cause of the strokes in some of the first test patients, said Michael R. Minogue, the company's presi­dent and chief executive offi­cer. 
The Danvers, Mass., compa­ny also hopes to implant the hearts in patients who can be treated with blood-thinning drugs, further reducing the risk of stroke, Minogue said in a recent interview. Two patients who received hearts with the redesigned cuff and anti-clotting drugs did not suf­fer strokes, he said. 
"We want to. focus on getting the right patients and getting them home, so whatever that number is, that is what it will be," Minogue said. 

THE OBSERVER 









IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, September 6, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
Reality check 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: JeffAlbert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: N"ma Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINlSTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.I@nd.edu 
ScENE DEsK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.t@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents of the Univernry ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe adminisrration ofeither insrirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infOrmation. 
Qumiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed tv Editvr in Chief Mike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

11>< ~(USPS 599 ~000) ;, pobliili,d Mond.y <hm«gh Frid.y ""'1" during exam and YllCati01'l periods. A subscription ro The Ob&c:rver is $HJO for one academj(; year; $55 fnr om; semester.. 
Tht Observer is publishcdat::-POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send add.n::ss oomaiom ro: 
Notre Dame. IN 46556-0779 The Ol>s<:mt 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame­00. Box779 
and additional mailing offices. 924 Sou<h Dining Hall 

Nouc: Dame, IN 46551'0779 
Tht Obsct\o:cr b a member ofthe Assoclakd PttU. All rc:ptoduction rights are 
f~CV~. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Amanda Michaels Tun Dougherty Kaitlynn Riely Kate Gales 
Ryan Sydlik Michael Bryan Viewpoint Scene Joey King Sean Sweany Kara King 
Graphics Jeff Albert 
My new favorite techie accessory is the ear clip. The sleek, stylish earpiece popping up in middle aged men's ears like there is no tomorrow. And who doesn't love mobile Web casts? Information is liter­ally at our finger­tips. Yet, are we using these advancements in science and technol­ogy to improve and protect our world? Or are we conve­niently ignoring the science presented to us like spoiled chil­dren solely con­cerned about our own selfish desires? 
During the past few months, there have been several major movements in the combat against global warming. AI Gore made a movie and Tom Brokaw did a television special highlighting the dangers and realities of this ultimate disaster. Both media per­sonalities involved scientists and experts to help in the production of the shows. Major time and money were also invested to make the American people aware of global warming and its dan­gers. Millions of Americans watched the film and/or television show and, unless completely cold-blooded, walked away with alarming knowledge and hopefully a little fear. 
U seems like this is not the first time we have been warned about heated world issues. As I recall, experts, such as doctors of Middle Eastern studies, warned government officials that going to war in Iraq would be a horrible mis­take. Intensely aware of Iraqi and Middle Eastern culture and society, 

Katie Palmitier 
It sounded better in my head 

these experts knew that if we declared war, the lighting would result in a quag­mire-and most likely a civil war. 
It seems for years scientists have been warning us of the dangers of global warming, but me, being young and naive, never really paid att-ention or felt fear because it was not going to happen to me during my lifetime, so I did not have to deal with it. We all had the Alfred E. Newman approach of "What, me worry?" However, I now realize that it is going to affect me and is affecting others in the world as we speak. Tragic, destructive hurricanes and tsunamis have devastated millions in the past year alone, and scientists predict the number of these natural disasters is only going to rise, along with their destructive power. Both of these disas­ters are just the beginning of the global warming cycle, which scientists prom­ised would happen. Although we do not have to worry about hurricanes and enormous waves in Indiana we do need to look at these disasters as personal warning signs. While a Noah-like flood may not happen in my lifetime, it could very likely happen to my children or grandchildren. Little things can be done starting today to protect our posterity and ourselves. 
Sadly, our generation has held onto this worry-free, selfish mind set for too long. Perhaps your parents or aunts and uncles took place in Vietnam War protests. Their generation stood up for themselves and fought to put an end to an unnecessary war. Yet our genera­tion, as a whole, sits back quietly, listen­ing to our iPods, saying and doing noth­ing about the current war that could have been prevented, and nothing about the possible life or world ending tragedies that can be prevented. 
Our generation has the opportunity to make a difference when we vote who will represent us in making decisions that affect our society and society's future. It seems now, as well as in years past, the government has blatantly lied to us, ignoring expert opinions and the well being of the country. Therefore, it is crucial that number one, we all vote, and number two, choose a representa­tive that will truly look to our nation's best interest when making some of these decisions. 
We also have a choice when we choose how we get our information. Watching Fox News, reading only the sports section of the newspaper, and Googling celebrity gossip is NOT how we should obtain our knowledge about the world. Do we need to resort to hav­ing Bill Nye the Science Guy on MTV or dating Summer on The O.C. to spark the inner scientist in all of us? Read the front page of a newspaper and watch an entire news broadcast from an unbi­ased station. When we start getting real news and information, we can start making a real difference. 
It is time to wake up to our cell phone alarms and smell the Starbucks. We are living in a world currently suffering from war and the early stages of global warming. It is time for our generation to do our part in providing a better place for us all to live. Besides, who wants to bring their little Domers to the ND vs. USC game in 120-degree heat? 
Katie Palmitier is a sophomore Political Science major. She can be con­tacted at kpalmiti@nd. edtt 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not neces­saril.lJ thos.e of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 

What is the biggest deterrent to living off campus? 


Submit aLetter 
"Silence is one of the hardest arguments to refute." 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 


to the Editor at 
Josh Billings
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
humorist

www.nclsmcobservef.eam
v ·.. ·--:·· '<¢ ..,... .. , ... 


THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 6, 2006 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Police priorities 
It seems to me that the biggest problem facing the crime and citation controversy surrounding off-cam­pus housing is poor prioritizing by the South Bend Police Department. If the SBPD has enough time and resources to check the Internet to find out when and where a party occurs, then why do they not have · enough manpower to stop {or at least curtail) the recent series of robberies and assualts against stu­dents? 
There are certainly worse things that could hap­pen than some college students drinking and listen­ing to music -things such as muggings and armed robberies. The students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's contribute put in an enormous amount of service hours in the community, and we are repaid like this? This appears more than a little unfair to me. 
Christopher Tillett freshman Alumni Hall Sept. 5 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Economics, 111orality and the academic fonnn 
This year's Academic Forum coincides nice­
ly with the twentieth anniversary of the U.S. 
Catholic Bishops' letter "Economic Justice 
For All." The bishops felt compelled to· 
respond to the devastating effects of poverty 
they witnessed in the 1970s and 1980s. "That 
so many people are poor in a nation as rich 
as ours is a social and moral scandal that we 
cannot ignore" (No. 16). The Economic 
Pastoral continues to challenge and encour­
age American Catholics. 
It calls each of us at Notre Dame to consid­
er the economy, in all its elements, as subject 
to the demands of morality; to make our­
selves aware of the concrete realities · imposed on the poor; and, most importantly, 
the letter calls us to "conversion and common 
action, to new forms of stewardship, service, 
and citizenship" (No. 27). 
Does the U.S. economy serve the needs of 
persons (especially the poor), or do people 
serve the economy? Do we, as individuals and 
as a University, participate in the U.S. econo­
my in a way that builds community and soli­
darity in our world? 
In "Economic Justice for All," the bishops 
intended to make available the riches of 
Scripture and Tradition so that we might 
think more creatively about the plight of the 
poor and the complexities of the economy. 
They call us to pop the "Notre Dame bubble," 
and to become aware of what life is like for 
the destitute in South Bend and beyond. If 
you have not yet, consider participating in 
one of the many opportunities offered by the 
Center for Social Concerns that try to move 
us toward solidarity. 
We desperately need liberation from ideolo­
gies and quick fix policies. The 20th anniver­
sary of the economic pastoral gives us an 
opportunity to subvert sound bytes and 
address core problems. Let's read this docu­
ment together, study it, pray over it, and 
work out how best to live it. 
How can the pastoral guide our research, 
shape our programs, liturgies, dorm pro­
gramming, and service? The upcoming 
Academic Forum is a great first step to meet 
this challenge. Make sure you attend. 
Sean Agniel grad student off campus Sept. 5 

Recent raids not constructive 
I feel as though all we ever hear about here at Notre Dame is the relationship between Notre Dame and the South Bend community ­how it's not positive, how our com­munity doesn't have a cooperative relationship with the residents of South Bend, how it needs improve­ment. I think it is apparent that there's another relationship we have with South Bend that needs no improvement at all: the one between the Office of Residence Life and Housing and the South Bend Police, or rather the Indiana State Excise Police. On Monday, The Observer reported that 86 people were cited at Turtle Creek Apartments. 
The article mentioned no com­plaint about noise or disruption, sim­ply that an "anonymous complaint was received concerning a party list­ed on MySpace under events and also under people's blogs." I don't know any student that would be so offended by a party simply listed on a social Web page to take the matter to law enforcement officials. I do however know that ResLife has access to Facebook, another social Web page much more likely to list events such as this party. Maybe I am incorrect in that assumption. 

The more important point is that over the past couple years, it seems as though the Turtle Creek Apartments, located near the soccer fields, practically on campus, have been targets of mass raids by police. 
Students partying at houses far­ther off campus are more likely to walk home through unsafe neigh­borhoods or, even worse, simply drive drunk. Maybe the police think that this is a good plan; maybe Notre Dame does too. 
I, for one, though, think that these raids, which encourage increasing amounts of students to move further and further away from campus and into the South Bend neighborhoods, are irrational and frankly danger­ous. The University notifies us con­stantly of assaults and attacks that occur as students walk home late at night, sometimes after consuming alcohol -they're just making us walk even farther to return to cam­pus and pushing us even farther away from the Notre Dame commu­nity. 
Maura Bradley sophomore Lewis Hall Sepr. 4 


Personal information 
Being human beings, we all make mistakes; it is inevitable. Eighty-eight people in particular made mistakes Friday evening that they all must live with for the rest of their lives. They are both upset and embarrassed at the events that took place that night. The only thing that could make their situation worse is having the entire Notre Dame community know about it. Revealing people's personal infor­mation such as a name or an address in a front page article of the school newspaper read by thousands of stu­dents is both unprofessional and unethical. 
I am not against the fact that the 


uncecessary 
incident found its way into The 
Observer. When something of this 
size and importance to the local 
community takes place, it is the 
responsibility of a journalist to make 
these events known to the public. 
However, there exists a great differ­
ence between reporting the news 
and negatively portraying people in 
the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
community. 
There is no excuse for releasing 
names of those arrested, addresses 
of the incidents or even the extracur­
ricular activities of a resident who 
wasn't even involved. The fact that 
these pieces of information made 
their way into the school paper is a very negative testament to the staff of The Observer. All those involved in the publishing of the article should be incredibly ashamed of themselves, and realize that as students, they are only hurting the community that we work so hard for at Notre Dame. When people make mistakes, we should let them deal with it personal­ly, not advertise these mistakes to 8,000 more people. 
Rick Loesing junior Stanford Hall Sept. 4 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, September 6, 2006 

By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 

"Echoes of Glory: The History of Notre Dame Football" is an amazing highlight reel. The number of games from which footage was drawn is the documentary's high point. However, a low production value and Roy Scheider's uninspired nar­ration bring this DVD down. 
The documentary begins with a time­line of the coaches of Notre Dame and devotes more time to the good than the bad. Ara Parseghian and Lou Holtz get more screen time than Gerry Faust and Bob Davie -an imbalance that is to be expected. This section ends with Charlie Weis as the new head coach and pays lit­tle attention to the controversy of Tyrone 
Echoes of Glory: The History of Notre Dame Football 
Warner Home Video 


) 
~¥~ 
Willingham's firing. Again, this is not sur­prising since the over-arching focus of the production is Notre Dame's tradition and its football highs -not the lows. 
The· DVD goes on to discuss the rival­ries that Notre Dame has developed over the seasons. The USC rivalry begins with Knute Rockne and goes all the way through Willingham's last season. Out of no fault of the production team, last year"s USC game, while still fresh in Notre Dame's memory, is missing. 
The Army rivalry -which began with coach Jesse Harper-was first an argu­ment over money. Army wanted to pay Notre Dame $400, but Notre Dame want­ed $1,000. The University eventually got the money it wanted and traveled to West Point for the game, which left the running forward pass as its legacy. The 30-40 yard passes that Notre Dame used in this high-profile game were the first many people had seen in American foot­ball. 
The fmal sections review Notre Dame's Big Ten rivalries, including the team's first football game against Michigan and the drama of Notre Dame's bids for admission into the Big Ten. After all this history, of which the producers were able to include a large amount, the DVD goes over the greatest games in Notre Dame history and the greatest Bowl games. The highlights are impressive, and the video obtained from some of the games must have taken copious amounts of research. The 1952 Notre Dame­Oklahoma and 1988 Notre Dame-Miami games are also featured. 
The DVD extras are excellent addi­tions. The Knute Rockne speeches are amazing pieces of history that any Notre 
Dame fan should 


watch. To see the man that founded Notre Dame football on film talking to his players is an experience that puts Notre Dame foot­ball in perspective, and it is quite moving to see where Notre 
Dame came from  - 
the  hard  work  of  
many people.  


There is also an extra about the Band of the Fighting Irish, which gives the group its due in the history of Notre Dame football. The band did exist before the team, and this extra gives the group some credit usually reserved for the football team. 
However, this DVD suffers from rela­tively low production values. It looks inexpensively made -surprising, given its association with Warner Home Video. A better narrator could also have been used. Scheider does a line job but sounds old and somewhat bored. This DVD is great for highlights, which abound. The history is interesting but not presented very well. 
With a bit more money and a better director, this DVD could have really "woken up the echoes." 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel @nd.edu 
'THE NEw GoLD STANDARD' BooK REVIEW 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 

Tim Pristnr's "The New Gold Standard: Charlie Weis and Notre Dame's Rise to Glory" may initially conjure up bad mem­ories of Alan Grant's "Return to Glory: Inside Tyrone Willingham's Amazing First Season at Notre Dame" -but 2005 wasn't 2002, and Weis isn't Willingham. 
Still, Prister's new volume, published Tuesday, falls prey to the same problems as Grant's -namely, too cursory an analysis and an overly reverent portrayal of the subject. 
Throughout the book, Prister takes veiled jabs at both Willingham and Davie, though it could be argued these are 
The New Gold Standard: Charlie Weis and Notre Dame's Rise to Glory 
Tim Prister 


The biggest problem with "The New Gold Standard," however, is that it's not very insightful. Parts of it read like AP game recaps, and other portions feel like highlight reels of Weis' press confer­ences. Prister summarizes, not analyzes. 
"The New Gold Standard" also has the odd problem of being at once too cursory and too detailed -its lack of analysis is countered by an over-reliance on sound bytes and game specifics. The game descriptions, particularly of the USC game, are nothing new to even casual Notre Dame fans, which means Prister's sense of audience may be slightly skewed -and there probably aren't many Irish fans wanting to read another detailed description of the end of the USC game anyway. 
Prister has nothing 


deserved. He discusses the justifications for firing Willingham, but his research comes into question when he claims that "it was an unspoken, yet unbreakable rule: barring scandal, death, or wartime, it was understood that no Notre Dame head football coach would be dismissed until he'd had a minimum of five years to establish his program." The assertion apparently ignores Hunk Anderson, whose resignation was forced rather than voluntary. 
Prister's approach is not without humor, as the chapters have such titles as "The Tyrone Willingham Years -All Three of Them," "Let the Beat-Down Begin" and "Break Out the Champagne." Tho book reads very quickly and Prister's casual tone fits his approach quite well. His love for Notre Dame football is obvi­ous. though it does slightly skew objectiv­ity, as Ilomerism seeps through in many sections of the book. 
but praise for Notre Dame's coach. There is precious little about the "man behind the myth," as it deals only with superficial, public infor­mation about Weis' per­sonal life. "The New Gold Standard" isn't the insightful revisionism of Murray Sperber's Knute Rockne in "Shake Down 
the Thunder," nor is it the hero-worship of Grant's Tyrone Willingham in "Return to Glory." It sim­ply recounts what Weis publicly did and said, without much comment on either other than lines of praise scattered throughout. 
Doesn't writing a book about Weis after only one season seem a bit premature? 
Yes, it does. Weis, with his "9-3 isn't good enough" banner, would be the first to admit that he hasn't achieved his goals yet. Prister might have been better off waiting for a few years until a more com­plete and insightful portrait of Weis and his coaching came into focus. As it stands, "The New Gold Standard" has too little to discuss, though the hope is that Prister's praise of Notre Dame's new coach doesn't ultimately turn out to be as ironic as Grant's was three years ago. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 



Faces of Notre Dame football have graced numerous magazine covers. Publications include "Sports Illustrated" and national media like "TIME Magazine." 


page 13 

Top 71rish Football Videos on the Web 
·­

Wednesday, September 6, 2006 
NOTRE DAME IN THE MEDIA 
By BRIAN DOXTADER AND ERIN 
MCGINN 
Scene Writers 
The relationship between the media and Notre Dame is the very definition of love-hate. Open any magazine or newspa­per referencing collegiate sports and, whether the writer likes Notre Dame or not, it is nearly impossible for the Irish not to be mentioned. 
The Irish appear all over the media world. One of the most recognizable places is in the movies. Notre Dame has had two silver screen movies made about its football team. Lloyd Bacon's ("42nd Street") "Knute Rockne All American" (1940) stars Pat O'Brien as Knute Rockne, arguably the most famous coach in the history of college football, the coach of the Irish from 1918-1930. 
An icon of the football world, Rockne himself literally changed the sport by inventing the forward pass. Former President Ronald Reagan plays the role of George Gipp, whose death lead to the fondly remembered and oft-quoted "win one for the Gipper" speech. 
Nineteen ninety-three brought David Anspaugh's ("Hoosiers") film "Rudy" to the big screen. Based on a true story, "Rudy" stars Sean Astin ("Lord of the Rings") in the title role as Rudy Ruettiger, -a kid who worshipped Notre Dame football enough that he did all he could to become a part ofthe team. 
Despite tremendous obstacles, Rudy eventually makes it to Notre Dame and becomes a legend in his own right. Astin is very moving in the lead role, and the film is also noteworthy for the appear­ances of Jon Favreau and a young Vmce Vaughn. 
There have also been several DVDs released about Notre Dame football in recent years, the most recent including "The History of Notre Dame Football" and to-be-released on Oct. 31 is "University of Notre Dame Fighting Irish -Collector's Edition (College Football's Greatest Games)." 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE 
Graphics by JEFF ALBERTfThe Observer 
The later is an eight disc set that football team. 
includes over eight of Notre Dame's most Additionally, Notre Dame football has classic football games (including the become a staple of the Internet, as the "Green Jersey", "Chicken Soup," floodgates have been opened to a wealth "Catholics vs. Convicts" and "Snow Bowl" of historical and contemporary footage. games), over two hours of vintage high­On the internet, the web r;ite light films and original radio calls for key http://www.bluwiki. org/go/BGS_video plays. gathers all the Irish football clips from 
Notre Dame is also a commodity on the around the internet, conveniently linking small screen as well. Aside from being the them in one place. The clips come from a only school to have its own contract for wide range of sources, most notably every home game to be broadcast nation­Youtube, and span decades. ally on NBC, the Irish are frequently men­Among the earliest clips is a highlight tioned on everything from various ESPN reel from Elmer Layden's 1935 team, shows to "Live with Regis and Kelly." which played against Ohio State in that 
It is hard to not have a bias when dis­era's "Game of the Century." In fact, clips cussing the Irish and these biases are pre­from all three of Notre Dame's "Games of dominant among broadcasters. Regis the Century" (1935 Notre Dame-Ohio Philbin, a 1953 graduate, is never shy to State, 1966 Notre Dame-Michigan State, proclaim his love for the Irish and every­1993 Notre Dame-Florida State) are avail­thing Notre Dame. On the other side, sev­able and make for great viewing. eral ESPN broadcasters, notably Mark Other notable clips include the 1973 May and Lee Corso, are never afraid to Sugar Bowl against Alabama, the 1988 stand as far away from the Notre Dame "Catholics vs. Convicts," The 1992 bandwagon as possible. "Cheerios Bowl" and the 1992 "Snow 
Almost anything that mentions the Irish Bowl." is instantly a hot-seller, so newspapers The best clips are from the Holtz era, a are not usually afraid to throw the name time that included such greats as Tony around any which way they can. Any Rice, Tim Brown, Rocket Ismail and news about Notre Dame is big news­Jerome Bettis. Watching the end of the and the scandals sell more than anything Snow Bowl (1992 against Penn State) or else. the end of the 1993 "Game of the 
Newspapers and magazines jumped for Century" (against Florida State) is truly joy when word of the O'Leary fiasco was inspiring, and hearkens back to a time spread around, likewise with the firing of when Notre Dame was exciting and com­Willingham and the subsequent hiring of petitive -a time to which Notre Dame is Coach Weis. finally returning. 
Heartwarming stories, like that of Notre Dame has always held a special Coach Weis visiting Montana place in the media, be it positive or nega­Mazurkiewicz and the "pass right" at the tive. Its national exposure brings to the Washington game, are also sought after forefront of the media Charlie Weis and and used to the advantage of the press. his resurgence of the football program. 
Notre Dame fans even work to create As to the love-hate relationship, Weis their own media frenzies. Sites like ndna­himself said on media day Aug. 6, tion.com have become exceedingly popu­"Whether you like us or not is really not lar in recent years, with fans posting their that relevant. You know, we are just look­own articles and stories as well as gather­ing for respect, not to be liked or dis­ing together all the media they can on the liked." Irish. 
Aside from articles, the fans also pro­Contact Brian Doxtader at duce everything from highlight videos to bdoxtade@nd.edu and Erin McGinn at complete DVDs about the Notre Dame emcginn@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, September 6, 2006 
page 14 
VIDEO GAME REVIEW 

NCAA Football2007 scores big, delights fans 
Latest edition of football game features improved graphics, more control 


The difference between the real Brady Quinn and his pixellated twin can be tough to determine. EA's best-selling video game features unparalleled graphics. 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 

There are some certainties in college football that are like clockwork ­someone from the Seminoles will get arrested, Michigan will be overrated, the BCS will be a mess and EA Sports will release a new version of "NCAA Football." 
"NCAA Football 2007," however, may be the best version yet. It tweaks improvements from 2006 but retains last year's playability. 
The biggest change to "NCAA Football 2007'' is the Campus Legend mode, which is really just a revamped Race for the Heisman from 2006. The user creates his or her own player, chooses a position and goes through training camp, which then gains the player scholarship offers to various schools. Once at the school of choice, the player is immediately inserted into the starting lineup, no matter how unrealistic -a freshman QB obviously wouldn't get the start over Quinn, but that's how it goes in the game. 
Campus Legend mode requires play­ers to balance academics (with majors ranging from Division I-A Mascots to Chemistry) and football with a schedule that allows them to choose where they want to concentrate. Focus too much on football, and the GPA slips (which can make a player ineligible). Conversely, focus too much on academ­ics, and on-field performance suffers. 
The schedule is controlled from a "dorm room," which gets bigger and fancier in each succeeding year ­though it seems pretty unlikely that a Notre Dame or UCLA player would have a Reggie Bush poster hanging on the wall. 
While the mode is actually pretty easy, it unbalances the game by driving the player to use his or her created character more often than is realistic. It's conceivable to win the Heisman all 
New aspects of NCAA 2007 give garners even greater command over their teams. Fresh visuals make this the most realistic version of the game to date. 
four years at running back, quarter­back or even receiver, even on the highest difficulty level, as long as you keep feeding your player the ball. This leads to 50-yard bombs late in the fourth quarter when you're ahead by 30 just to pad stats. 
After three or four years, you are given the choice to either export your player to Madden 2007 or to coach ­which is pretty funny, since a 22-year old player probably wouldn't get to be head coach at a D-IA school, even if he did win the Heisman four years in a row. 
Dynasty mode, however, remains the core of the game, as players try to lead their teams to multiple national titles. Players can recruit in-season and invite prospects to visit during key games. 
There are welcome new features, including more varied playbooks and a new "momentum meter" which shifts according to big plays dur­

courtesy 

grabs momentum and gives its players a performance bonus. 
For the most part, the graphics are very good and much improved. The collision engine is better, which means that players rarely run through each other anymore. On the other hand, there are still no gang tackles or shared sacks, even though sometimes it appears that there should be. 
Other animations, especially celebra­tions, are also back and better than ever, although EA needs to fix a few things in the future. There's nothing more bizarre than watching a running back celebrate a two yard run up the gut. 
The game balance, once the series' Achilles' Heel, is much easier in 2007. The running game works as players break tackles, fall forward, push for extra yardage and blockers actually hold their blocks once in a while. Receivers have a greater tendency to catch balls thrown their way, with far fewer inexplicable drops. 
EA has also fixed the balance issues from previous year, which heavily favored mobile quarterbacks. Though they are still extremely effective (espe­cially Troy Smith and Pat White, who runs amok against slower defenses), better defensive recognition and QB spy plays that actually work help negate their advantage and make pock­et passers like Quinn and Brian Brohm more viable. 
The AI, unfortunately, is still dumb as rocks, even on the highest difficulty, which means an offense (or defense, for that matter) can continually run the same play and the computer won't pick up on it. No matter the opponent, you'll feel like you're playing against a Greg Robinson-coached team every time. 
One of the most frustrating parts of the game is the frequency of roughing the kicker and running into the kicker penalties, especially on extra point tries. A penalty is incurred about every other attempt -a stunningly high fre­quency, especially given its rarity in actual games. 
In fact, special teams as a whole are problematic. The new "over-the-shoul­der" cam used when defending punts and field goals is nice and an interest­ing idea, but it makes blocking the kick way too easy. A similar cam is used when fielding kickoffs and punts, which makes it much harder to see downfield. 
The kicking game, however, is much· improved. Kickoffs and punts are now controlled using the right analog stick (think "Tiger Woods Golf"), which makes it much easier to be accurate. 
Historical rosters are once again in the game, though these seem merely transferred from previous editions, which means Notre Dame's 1977 quar­terback still isn't Joe Montana (though he is, oddly enough, the starter on the All-Notre Dame team) 
The unfortunate absence of the absolutely loaded All-America team from 2005 is a bit disappointing for those who would love to see Reggie Bush and Vince Young line up in the same backfield and Paul Posluszny and AJ Hawk wreaking havoc together at linebacker. 
College ball is, in many ways, more exciting than the NFL and the ability to run "gimmick" offenses like Spurrier's fun-and-gun, Meyer's spread option and the triple option attack give the game increased playability. 
There are still some issues with the AI and graphics, but for the most part, "NCAA Football 2007'' is the best game of its kind. And if that's not enough, for the first time in the game's history, Notre Dame is one of the best teams in the game, which means that, at long last, you too can go out there with all you've got and win just one for the Gipper. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

NCAA Football 2007 
PS2, PSP, XBox, XBox 360 EA Sports 

ing the game. A team could have all the momentum and be driving toward the end zone when the quarterback throws a pick six. Suddenly, the other team 

Graphic by JEFF ALBERT !The Observer Designers study players like Notre Dame running back Darius Walker to create game animations. This results In incredibly lifelike actions and reactions. 
---------~~---~--~~---­
Wednesday, September 6, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
~~~~~~~~~~ 



resents 


I 



Dillon Pep Rally Thursday 7:00pm South Quad 
.. 
I 
I 
I I I 
'I 
I 
I I I 
' 
' 
I
' 
' I 
' 
'I 
' 
' 
' 
' 
I I I 
I 
' 
' 
I 
I 
' 
' 
' ' 
' 
' . '' 
' 
' 
I 
' 
' 
I 
I 
I I 
' 
' 
I 
' 
I 
I 
' 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, September 6, 2006 
MLB-AL 

Boston defeats Chicago in 1-0 shutout Tuesday 
Ortiz is D1or-3 ivith a walk in his return; Twins' win extends their lead in the AL wild card race with win over Devil Rays 
Ortiz was not available for
Associated Press comment after the game. But BOSTON -David Ortiz was he said before batting practice back in the Red Sox. lineup, the that he was no longer wearing Fenway crowd giving him a a heart monitor is not taking standing ovation just for step­any medication -just "rice ping into the batter's box. and beans." His timing is still off, his MVP-caliber production still Minnesota 8, Tampa Bay 0 absent after a week being Johan Santana became the poked and prodded to deter­first 17-game winner in the mine the source of heart palpi­major leagues, allowing two tations. hits over eight scoreless innings "Some fastballs got by him as Minnesota beat Tampa Bay that don't normally get by him. -the Twins' 14th win in a row That will change," Red Sox over the Devil Rays. manager Terry Francona said. Santana (17 -5) struck out 12 "It was good to see him out and walked o.ne. The left-ban­there." der, 8-0 since the All-Star Ortiz went 0-for-3 with a break, retired his first 10 hit­walk and two strikeouts, but ters before Delmon Young dou­his return was good ne-ws bled with one out in the fourth. enough for Boston following He then got eight straight outs one of the worst months ever before Young singled to lead off for a franchise that has seen the seventh. plenty of bad ones. Injured Santana recorded 10 or more closer Jonathan Papelbon got strikeouts in eight games this good news from doctors and season and 31 times in his Kason Gabbard further cheered career. the reeling Red Sox with seven The Devil Rays -whose last innings of three-hit ball to help win against Minnesota came them beat the Chicago White June 3, 2004, when they beat long rain delay and worked 3 unearned. Monday. Cleveland was down Sox. Santana -had only three bat­· 2-3 innings of perfect relief, Detroit took a 3-0 lead in the 4-3 at the time. It was the first major league ters reach base against him. leading the Seattle Mariners to first. Curtis Granderson led off Trailing 2-1 in the eighth on victory for Gabbard (1-3) and B.J. Upton drew a two-out walk a victory over the Detroit with a triple and scored on Tuesday, the Indians rallied the second consecutive strong in the eighth. Tigers. Craig Monroe's single. Marcus with five runs off reliever outing from a starter pressed Minnesota took a 1 1/2 game The win was just Seattle's Thames walked, and after Jeremy Accardo (1-1). Marte's into service due to a litany of lead in the AL wild-card race second in 16 road games. Ordonez flew out, Ivan first career bases-loaded homer injuries to the Red Sox staff. over the Chicago White Sox, Detroit has lost nine of 13, and Rodriguez hit a two-run double was the Indians' team-record Julian Tavarez, making just his who lost 1-0 to Boston on leads Minnesota by oHly four off the scoreboard in right-cen­13th slam of the season. second start, held the White Tuesday night. games in the AL Central. The ter field. "I was looking for a fastball Sox to two runs in six innings Jason Tyner had an RBI dou­Tigers had a 10-game edge in The Mariners tied it with all the way," Marte said. "I was on Monday. ble and Jason Bartlett hit a sac­the division on Aug. 8. three runs in the fourth as a ready for it." "Who ... is pitching against us rifice fly off Jae Seo (1-6) dur­Pineiro (8-11) retired all 11 steady rain began to fall. Marte said he wasn't hesitant tomorrow night?" Chicago ing a three-run fourth that put batters he faced when he With one out, Raul Ibanez to swing at the first pitch manager Ozzie Guillen said, the Twins ahead 3-0. entered the 3-3 game to start singled and moved to third on because it was a different laughing, in the visitor's club­Seo, reinstated from the 15-the fifth inning after an 1 hour, Hichie Sexson's ground-rule pitcher. He faced B.J. Ryan on house after the game. day disabled list before the 23-minute rain delay. lie struck double. Bonderman walked Monday. The White Sox dropped 1 1/2 game, gave up three runs and out four. Broussard to load the bases, Marte got the ball from what games behind Minnesota in the eight hits in six innings. He had J .J. Putz got the final four and Johjima's bloop single he said was his first grand slam AL wild-card standings and been out since straining his left outs for his 30th save. The first made it 3-1. at any level. Boston remained six games groin on Aug. 20. batter he faced, Magglio Brandon Inge then misplayed "It's a different day. He was behind the Twins. Michael Cuddyer hit an RBI Ordonez, reached on an infield Beltre's grounder to allow a up with the bases loaded yes­Ortiz led the major leagues double and Justin Morneau had single, but tried to advance on second run to score, and Jose terday and they got him," with 4 7 homers when he was a run-scoring triple in a three­a wild throw: lie was thrown Lopez tied the game with an Cleveland manager Eric Wedge pulled from the lineup last run seventh to make it 6-0. out at second by catcher Kenji HBI groundout. · said. "He took advantage of Monday before a game in Minnesota manager Ron Johjima. another great opportunity. He Oakland, complaining of heart Gardenhire was ejected for Seattle took a 4-3 lead in the Cleveland 7, Toronto 2 hit the ball as well as you could palpitations. He was hospital­arguing that Cuddyer's hit was sixth against rookie Andrew Andy Marte had much better hit it." ized for two days last week to actually a homer. TV replays Miller (0-1). With one out, Ben results swinging at the first Jeremy Sowers (7-3) pitched undergo extensive heart test­that the ball might have cleared Broussard walked, took third pitch. seven innings for the victory, ing; he was released Thursday the yellow line on the left-field on Johjima's single and scored Marte's grand slam in the allowing just two runs and five .·and wore a heart monitor over fence before rebounding onto on Adrian Beltre's groundout. eighth inning snapped a tie and hits. He struck out three and the weekend. the playing field. Both starting pitchers left carried the Cleveland Indians walked none. "The ongoing monitoring of Garndehire has been tossed after the rain delay. Jeremy to a victory over the Toronto "He was competing against David Ortiz has not identified eight times this season. Bonderman and Jake Woods Blue. one of the best pitchers in base­any further problem," team both allowed three runs in their Marte popped up to second ball. I think it's even more spe­physician Dr. Thomas Gill said Mariners 4, Tigers 3 four-inning stints, although one base after offering at the first cial," Wedge said of the victory in a statement. Joel Pineiro came on after a of Sonderman's runs was pitch with the bases loaded on over Roy Halladay and Toronto. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

2-3-4 bdrrns. Share w/FRIENDS. House for rent for football week-WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. 50% off dep. if rented by 1 0/1. 255-ends. Sleeps 6-8. Call Kay TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY FoR SALE 7000. evenings at 269-663-8203. TICKETS WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726. PERSONAL 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK-Condo for sale 2 bdrm twnhse call Rent a home ND football week-ND Games 1-3M. 3 Bdrms priv. WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251-ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 269-445-2765 ends. 574-784-8638. homes 57 4-273-2241 . 1570 2378. Do not go it alone. If you or some­
one you love needs confidential Investment homes for sale near NOW LEASING FOR 2007-2008 2-6 BDRM HOMES & ROOMS FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232-TOP $ PAID FOR ND FOOTBALL support or assistance, please call ND. STADIUM CLUB CONDOMINIUMS NEAR CAMPUS AVAIL FOR 0964 TKTS 289-9280 Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. 
Spacious 2bdrrn 2ba. FOOTBALL WEEKENDS & For more information, see our bi­866-521 -8989. Washer/Dryer. Call Susan Miller at SCHOOL YEAR. 574-329-0308. Need ND tix & parking pass all Travel with STS to this years top 1 0 weekly ad in The Observer. 
243-7530. www.geocities.com/gillisrealty@ sbc home games. 574-276-8507. Spring Break destinations! Best Enchanting 2-story 2-3 bdrrn cot-global. net deals guaranteed! Highest rep com-www.ndgamedayroom.com !age on 3/4 acre lot across from BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam-A BUSINESSMAN PAYING TOP$$ missions. Visit www.ststravel.com Warren Golf Course. pus homes & weekend rentals. Weekend rental: 3 BR Home, walk FOR SEASON TIX OR INDIVID-or call 1-800-648-4849. Great group Now, I want you to go to each of 
Bluegoldrentals.com to stadium, Terrace Ln. 269-930-UAL GAMES. CALL MARK 574-discounts. these agents -discreetly -and Low taxes & utilities. $145,000. Call 8038. swmient@qtm.net 277-1659. say the words "tse-tse fly". Say 
574-277-2684 or mascotte@com-B&B (cont.) 2 night min. 3.3 mi. to Travel with STS to this years top 10 nothing else. ND 272-6305 New lodging for ND home games. 2 AN ACTUAL Spring Break destinations! Best bdrm apt. above Mishawaka bar. ABOVE-AVERAGE deals guaranteed! Everyone wants to kill the king. But 2 bdrrn home football weekends. Dates avail. Call360-8165. ABIDING FAN DESPERATELY Highest rep commissions. Visit the prince, he just sails along telling 
FoR RENT 

Walk to ND. Call 574-287-6395. NEEDS FOOTBALL TIX. ANY OR www.ststravel.com or call 1-800-• all the ladies, "One day I'm gonna 2 rooms in private home w/separate Lodging for ND games, lakefront ALL GAMES. 648-4849. Great group discounts. be king." entrance for football weekends. Rental homes 3-6 bdrms. cottage sleeps 7. 20 mins to ND. LOCAL Shared bath. Close to ND. 574-259-Close to ND. furnished. $650 for full weekend. Willing to swap 2 PU tix for 2 UCLA Ah, my "J" phase. I think I fired him 8603. Call Gary 574-993-2208. Fri,Sat,Sun. 269-687-1595. CALL 654-0169. tix. Call Bob 277-2560. for stealing pens. 


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, September 6, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVERs WJRE SERVICES page 17 
Associated Press· Poll ... Top25 
team record •previous 
1 Ohio State 1-0 1 2 Texas 1-0 3 3 usc 1-0< 6 4 Auburn 1-0 4 4 NOTRE DAME 1-0 2 6 West Virginia 1•0 5 7 florida 1-0 1 8 LSO 1-0 8 9 Florida State 1-0 11 1D Michigan H1 14 11 Tennessee 1·0 23 12 Georgia 1-0 15 13 Louisville H 13 14 Iowa 1"0 16 15 Oklahoma 1-0 1tt 16 Virginia Tech 1;-0 17 17 Miami (Fla.) 0-1 

...... 18·
··•·• 12
18 Clemson 1~0 19 Penn State 1-0 19 20 Oregon 1"0 21 21 Nebraska M 20 22 California 0"1• g•.· 23 TCU 1-0 22 24 Texas Tech 1"0 25 25 Arizona State 1~0 24 
USA Today/Coaches Poll Top25 
team points previous 
1 OhioState 2 Texas 
3 usc 
4 Aubutn 5 NOTRE DAME 5 West Virginia 7 Flluida · 8 LSU 9 Florida State 10 Oklahoma 11 Georgia 12 louisville 820 13 Michigan 786 14 Virginia Tech 700 15 Iowa 641 16 Miami (fla;) 605 17 Tennessee 579 18 Clemson 570 19 Penn Stale 459 20 Oregon 458 21 Nebraska 313 22 TCU 265 23 California 194 24 Texas Tech 178 25 Alabama -156 

NASCAR Nextel Cup Points Standings 
Driver 

1 Matt Kenseth 2 Jimmie Johnson 3 Kevin Harvick 4 Jeff Gordon 5 Kyfe Busch 6 Dale Earnhardt Jr. 7 Denny HamUn 8 Tony Stewart 9 Mark Martin 10 Jeff Burton 

around the dial 
TENNIS 

U.S. Open, 11 a.m., USA 
MLB 

Chicago White Sox at Boston, 
7:05 p.m., WGN Pittsburgh at Chicago Cubs, 
8:05 p.m., Comcast 
FIFA 


Associated Press 
ROME -Italy's Marco Materazzi said he insult­ed Zinedine Zidane's sis­ter, revealing nearly two months after the World Cup final what provoked the French star to head­butt him in the chest. 
In Tuesday's interview with the Gazzetta dello Sport, Materazzi dis­closed that after he held his opponent's shirt, Zidane said: "If you want, I'll give you the jersey later." 
"I responded that I pre­ferred his sister, it's true," Materazzi said. "It wasn't something nice, true. But luckily there 

have been dozens of players who have con­firmed that a lot worse things are said on the field." 
Zidane was sent off after receiving a red card for the he ad-butt. Italy went on to win on penal­ty kicks. 
Materazzi received a two-game ban for the July 9 incident and will miss Wednesday's rematch of the final, a 2008 European Championship qualifier. Zidane received a three­match suspension, but he retired after the World Cup. 
Materazzi said that the Italian federation, in the 
IN BRIEF 
Rainstorm ruins Phillies 
starter's major league debut 
PHILADELPHIA -Brian Mazone bounced around from the independ­ent leagues to the minor leagues, waiting and hoping for an opportu­nity to pitch in the majors. 
The Philadelphia Phillies were finally ready to give him a chance, only to have bad weather alter those plans. 
Mazone, a 31-year-old left-bander, was to make his big league debut on Wednesday against the Houston Astros. However, rain postponed Tuesday night's game between the Phillies and Astros. 
It has been rescheduled for Sept. 
25. So, Randy Wolf, who was to start Tuesday night, will take the mound on Wednesday against Andy Pettitte. 
Meanwhile, Mazone repacked his bags and headed to Rochester, N.Y., to pitch for Triple-A Scranton Wilkes-Barre in a playoff game Wednesday. 

middle of a match-fixing scandal, told him not to complain about the inci­dent during a FIFA hear­ing. 
"If accepting without raising my voice was the price to pay for having brought home the World Cup, I'm pretty happy to have paid it," Materazzi said. 
Asked if the two could make peace, Materazzi said: "You sign a peace (agreement) after terrible 
wars,  so  why  can't  
Zidane  and  I  make  
peace?  

"A peace among men, without a lot of publicity. The door to my house will always be open for 
that. And if Zidane wants, he knows where to find my address." 
France captain Patrick Vieira thinks the apolo­gies should go both ways. 
"I think Zidane is wait­ing for Materazzi to apol­ogize also for the insults he used," Vieira said. 
Vieira, who is Materazzi's teammate at Inter Milan, said he chat­ted with him before leav­ing to join the France squad. 
"He told me he is disap­pointed not to be here," Vieira said. "He's a very cheerful guy, but he loves to wind people up. Sometimes you need to know when to stop." 

Purdue safety out for year
wih hyperextended knee 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -In one freakish moment, Torri Williams went from being a starting safety at Purdue to a having an uncertain football future. 
Williams got his right foot caught in the new Bermuda grass at Ross-Ade Stadium in the third quarter Saturday against Indiana State. The resulting hyperextended knee has put him out for the season and raises questions about whether he'll play for Purdue again. 
Coach Joe Tiller said the earliest Williams could return is next fall. 
"What I'm most concerned about is, because of the severity of the injury, is that we do the right thing so that this guy can hopefully experience a complete recovery," Tiller said. 
Williams' roommate, fellow defen­sive back Zach Logan, said team­mates are trying to help however they can. 
Jankovic advances to first 
Grand Slam semifinal 
NEW YORK -Jelena Jankovic lost so many matches in a row this year, she lost count. But she'd taken enough stats classes in college to figure this: It was probably time to quit tennis and go back to school in Belgrade. 
On Tuesday, Jankovic graduated -to her first Grand Slam semifinal, that is -by taking away No. 4 Elena Dementieva's serve and coasting 6-2, 6-1 at the U.S. Open. 
"I cannot believe that I won in two sets," Jankovic said. "What was the score? I don't even know the total score." 
Shortly after she finished, rain began and the other daytime singles matches were postponed until Wednesday. Seventh-seeded Nikolay Davydenko led No. 17 Andy Murray 6-1, 5-7, 6-3; 2000 U.S. Open cham­pion Marat Safin led Tommy Haas 
2-1. 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 6, 2006 
NHL 
.-Malkin evades pressure to remain in Russia 
One of world's best players will be lethal threat for Penguins 
Associated Press PITTSBURGH -Finally, Evgeni Malkin wasn't worried about hiding his emotions or himself. He signed the contract he wanted to sign, with the team he wants to play for. Malkin, under so much pres­sure to keep playing in Russia that he hid out for five days in Finland to escape his Russian team, signed his first NHL con­tract Tuesday with the Pittsburgh Penguins. · No arm-twisting or middle-of­the-night negotiations were needed to make him sign a deal worth at least $3 million and probably much more. The 20­year-old Malkin was so deter­mined to play in North America this year, one of Russia's best­known sports figures was will­ing to risk his image back home to do so. "His dream was to come to Pittsburgh and start his career in the NHL, and he had to go through a lot in the last couple of weeks to achieve that," Penguins owner Mario Lemieux said. "It's always difficult when you've got a different country and a different language, and it will be tough for him for the next few months." It has already been a tough 
time for arguably the best play­er in the world not previously in the NHL. Malkin, a gifted but not one-dimensional scorer and playmaker, is expected to team with 19-year-old Sidney Crosby to give Pittsburgh a dynamic 1­2 center combination. 
After signing a one-year deal last month to remain with his hometown Metallurg Magnitogorsk, reportedly at 3 
a.m. following hours of persua­sion, he immediately regretted the decision and phoned agent 
J.P. Barry for help. 
Barry arranged to meet Malkin at the Helsinki airport when Metallurg arrived for training camp on Aug. 12, and the two secretly left together. They stayed hidden in a hotel there for five days until Malkin was granted a U.S. visa. 
The agent wasn't as con­cerned as much for Malkin's safety as he was that the Russian team, which was still in town, would try to get him back. 
"We were worried that when­ever there's a mystery and someone can't be found, they would try to look for him and if they could find him, they would try to continue the psychologi­cal pressure," Barry said. "We didn't want that to happen. It was really necessary for us to keep him away from that possi­bility." 
According to Barry, Malkin was followed to his home -the agent isn't certain by whom ­whenever the team felt he had been in contact with his North American-based agents. 
Once Malkin was gone, Metallurg general director Gennady Velichkin rebuked his star and threatened to sue the Penguins. Barry expects Metallurg to file for an injunc­tion that would prevent Malkin from playing in the NHL, though no Hussian team has ever suc­cessfully done so with a player once he has left. 
Malkin said he has patched up his relationship with Velichkin the last few weeks, after he was initially worried about how the team and its fans would react. 
"I definitely was a little con­cerned," he said, speaking through interpreter Olga McQueen. "But, knowing him for so many years, I had to believe that he wouldn't go for any harsh measures toward me. After I had my visa obtained, I called my parents and informed them that everything was fine and I was doing great. They contacted Mr. VeUchkin and actually now they are doing well and Mr. Velichkin doesn't have any hard feelings against me." 
Among those supporting Malkin's decision was Russian national team coach Slava Bykov, who said the star for­ward should be allowed to play wherever he wants. Three weeks ago, Malkin faxed a let-ter of resignation to Metallurg Malkin spent three weeks which, according to his agents, training in Los Angeles area allows him under Russian law before arriving in Pittsburgh on to quit his job there. Monday night. He had a whirl­


"We knew it wasn't going to wind first 24 hours there in be easy to get him out of there," which he dined at Lemieux's Lemieux said. "We have to lis­house, spent his first night in ten to the player and where he his new city and took part in an wants to play. He really wants informal early morning skate to be here in Pittsburgh, and with players such as Crosby we'll do everything we can to before attending a news confer­help him out." ence. 
Fall 2006 Schedule 
Experience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some ofthe most pressing issues ofour times. 
"More Than a Movie? Assessing 
~ 9/9-Penn State "More 'Ihan aMovie? Assessing TheDa Vinci Code"
TheDa Vinci Code" 
( l 01 DeBartolo Hall) James Collins, Professor ofFilm, Television, and Theatre Mary Rose D'Angelo, Associate Professor ofTheology
James Collins 
Charles Barber, Associate Professor ofArt, Art History, and Design
Professor ofFilm, Television, and Theatre 
~ 9/16-Michigan "1he Impact of the Dead Sea Scrolls on Our Bible" 
Mary Rose D'Angelo Eugene Ulrich, Rev. john A. O'Brien Professor ofTheology Associate Professor ofTheology 
~ 9/30-Purdue "Successful Aging" Cindy Bergeman, Chair and Professor ofPsychology
Charles Barber ·Associate Professor ofArt, Art History, and Design ~ 10/7-Stanford "The Bone Collector" Susan Sheridan, Associate Professor ofAnthropology 
12:00 Noon ~ 10/21-UCIA "Completing the Constitution: 1he 14th Amendment" ...W Saturday, September 9 Michael Zuckert, Nancy Reeves Dreux Professor ofPolitical Science 
~ 11/4-North Carolina "The Role of Religion in Peacebuilding" "More Than a Movie? Assessing TheDa Vinci Code"will R. Scott Appleby, Professor ofHistory, john M. Regan Jr. Director ofthe joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies
offer insights into the cinematic quality of the blockbuster John Paul Lederach, Professional Specialist, Kroc Institute
film, the historical relationship between Jesus and Mary 
A. Rashied Omar, Assistant Professional Specialist, Kroc Institute
Magdalene, and the theological role ofthe art depicted in the movie. ~ 11 /18-Army "Seeds ofChange" AMusical Performance 
Georgine Resick, Professor ofMusic This panel presentation will include Jim Collins, professor John Blacklow, Assistant Professor ofMusic offilm, who specializes in film and television theory, 
3-1/2 hours before kickoffin the Annenberg Auditorium, film history, and popular culture; Mary Rose D'Angelo, Snite Museum ofArt (unless otherwise noted). associate professor of theology, who studies early For more information, visit http:/Isaturdayscholar.nd.edu Christianity and the role ofwomen; and Charles Barber, associate professor of art history, whose areas of specialty 
~-.UNIVERSITY OF
include early Christian and Byzantine art. 
NOTRE DAME 
Wednesday, September 6, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
BLOCK PARTY 
NFL 

Mannings deny personal rivalry 

Siblings say Sunday's matchup is centered on teams, not each other 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Peyton Manning hoped one training camp interview session would e'nd the questions about Sunday's Brothers Bowl. As his New York brother might say: Forget about it. 
With Gotham's most hyped brotherly battle since perhaps the DiMaggios, the Manning vs. Manning affair has become the opening weekend's marquis matchup -much to the family's chagrin. 
"They've both said it's a game between two teams, and it is," father Archie Manning said dur­ing Peyton's recent bowling tournament in Indianapolis. "The media is trying to make it out to be Tiger vs. Phil or some­thing, but it's not like that." 
Certainly the Manning clan would prefer to downplay the first-ever football meeting between Eli and Peyton, Archie's sons who were both taken No. 1 overall in their respective draft classes. 
Peyton, the two-time MVP, tried to diffuse the situation the first week of training camp when he answered the ques­tions he expected from the moment schedule-makers put the Giants-Colts game in prime time on Week 1. Afterward, Peyton said he wouldn't talk about it again. 
Good luck. The blackout will undoubtedly end when Peyton holds his usual Wednesday news conferences this week. 
While Peyton and Eli have 

attempted to focus on the bigger than their own slugfest. picture -such as the impor­And Peyton believes his father tance an opening day win might merely wants a high-scoring have on their teams' playoff game rather than picking one hopes -others, including the son to win and the other to lose. league itself, have used the "I think my mom will pull for obvious storyline to their mar­both of us to stay healthy and keting advantage. my dad will pull 
In the NFL's for a lot of Kickoff Weekend offense," Peyton
"The media is 

packet, page 55 is said. headlined trying to make it The game itself "Manning vs. out to be Tiger vs. has a little some­Manning an NFL thing for every­
Phil or something
QB First." one, even those
like that.,, 

So much for the with a different Giants and Colts. surname. "Well, that's the Colts coach
Archie Manning 

era we live in," Tony Dungy
father of Eli and 

Archie said. "There points to the
Peyton Manning 
will be a lot of three Pro Bowl 
hype, and I'm proud of the way the boys are handling it." 

Relying on 14 years of NFL experience and nine more as an NFL father, Archie Manning has tried to keep things in perspec­tive as the sibling rivalry looms. He's not saying whether the family has scheduled a sewing project to create those trendy half-Giants, half-Colts shirts, and, like his boys, insists Sunday night's matchup really is more than a family affair. 
The duel has created some intriguing family planning, though. 
Last month, Peyton said he'd already taken care of most tick­et requests because Giants play­ers had a limited supply. 
Archie also wouldn't say whether similar comments com­ing from his sons in New York and Indianapolis were choreo­graphed. Peyton and Eli both said during the preseason they're more concerned with the opposing defensive ends 
defensive ends, 
the potent offens­es and th~ playoff-type atmos­phere he expects Sunday night. 
Peyton's teammates have another take. They aren't plan­ning to give their quarterback's younger brother the kid-glove treatment. 
"We can't hit ours, so we've got to hit one of them," Colts defensive end Robert Mathis said as the talk began in earnest Monday. 
It may not be the genteel stuff Archie and Olivia Manning hoped for. Then again, Archie, understands; this is football and quarterbacks have to take their licks -even his sons. 
For the record, Peyton said he hasn't lost to Eli in a sporting event since a pickup basketball game when he was playing at Tennessee and Eli was still liv­ing at home. This time, the stakes are much higher, much grander and the loser may have to live with the legacy for not days, but years. 

ATHLETIC TRAINING & SPORTS MEDICINE There will be a meeting for any Notre Dame freshman students interested in the student athletic training program. The meeting will be held on Monday, September 11th, at 4:15p.m. in the Joyce Center Athletic Training Room. For more information please visit our website www.nd.edu/-ndsat06/  
Qualityoff-campus 11ousing Leasing for 2007-2008 school year Houses, Townhouses, Apartments • Close to campus • Washers & dryers • Student neighborhoods • Dishwashers • Security systems • Internet ready • 24-hour maintenance staff • Lawn seNice Call today -properties rent quickly. Contact Kramer at (574) 315•5032fcell) (574) 234-2436roffice) To view all of our houses, visit www.kramerhouses.com  


University of Notre Dame's Study Abroad Program in 
Angers, France 
"Should I stay or should I go?" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Angers' Program Coordinator and returnees of the program 
Thursday, September 7, 2006 7:30PM 229 Hayes Healey 

Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2006 Academic Year 2007-2008 Fall 2007 -Spring 2008 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 6, 2006 
[top]-three team in the coun­tiqued and praised the Irish. try this week, and that's fun, "I thought Notre Dame hurt
Hype 
that's great," Paterno said. themselves with some bad "[If you wouldn't want to play penalties that prevented
continued from page 24 
this], you're in the wrong them from scoring," he said. tines. game, you're in the wrong "I thought the punter did a 
"The problem we have is, league. You ought to be a super job. [And] that No. 9 is we start school today," he reporter. It's a big game a super punt returner. He said. "A lot of kids go to against an awfully good foot­manufactures yards when he classes and aren't quite sure ball team." doesn't have them. where their classes are, and Penn State beat Akron 34-"To see two teams play as quite honestly, the University 16 in the opener at precisely as they did in the isn't quite sure where all University Park Saturday. first two games -that is a their classes are. Paterno said he liked most of great credit to both coaching 
"I just thought it was best what he saw but that the staffs." for everybody that ... we Nittany Lions have a lot to don't add any burdens that learn. 
Notes:

won't help us win the football "We're playing on the road, 
+ A reporter asked Paternogame." got the crowd noise, got to 

if he was a Notre Dame fanPaterno also said he is glad pay attention to crowd noise growing up in Brooklyn, "orPenn State is playing a tough and not get panicky when if that was mostly for Irish

out-of-conference opponent. things go wrong," he said. 
kids."

He said games against top "We're in a development 
"That's an ethnic question,

programs -mentioning stage, and we have to be 
and I'm going to have the

Notre Dame, Alabama, patient." 
ACLU get a hold of you,"

Pittsburgh and Boston Paterno said he watched 
Paterno quipped.

College -are good for the the film of Notre Dame's 14­team and for the fans. 10 win over Georgia Tech Contact Ken Fowler at "We're playing a top-two or Monday night. He both cri-kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

Penn State safety Nolan McCready, left, and linebacker Dan Connor tackle Akron running back Dennis Kennedy. Connor registered 13 tackles in the win. 

How Students Can Shape Politics, Government, and History 
A presentation by 

MARK SHIELDS 
Syndicated Columnist and Political Analyst, PBS' The NewsHour With Jim Lehrer 
Friday, September 8, 2006 
11:00 a.m. 
Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium 
Sponsored by: 
THE U:"ASHINGTON PROG1V4.M, 
the Departments of Sociology, Political Science, American Studies, and History, the John W. Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics, and Democracy, the Hesburgh Program in Public Service, the Program in American Democracy, and the Genter for Social Concerns 

Penn State head coach Joe Paterno stands on the sidelines in the Nittany Lions' 34-16 win over Akron. Paterno enters his 41st season as head coach at State College, Pa. 

54570 N. IRONWOOD DR. 
574.277.8500 


JIMMYJOHNS.COM 
dine drink + be stylish 
Seeking energetic Bartender, Line Cook, Dishwasher, Food Runner, Server and Cocktail Server, Bus and Host To be on the ground floor of New Upbeat Asian Fusion Restaurant/Bar In Downtown South Bend. Fax Resume 232-3799 Apply in Person 213 N. Main St. 

Wednesday, September 6, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Striker 
continued from page 24 
er," head coach Bobby Clark said. "He has all the credentials to be one of the best attacking players in this country. We knew that before he scored four goals, and I don't think it changes now." 
Individual honors have already started to pile up for the Irish offense, even though the season is still early. Lapira was also named Big East Offensive Player of the Week, becoming the second Irish striker in as many weeks to earn that honor. 
Senior Justin McGeeney earned the ilistinction after he scored two goals in a 4-1 rout of Creighton ­which was also ranked No. 8 at the time-during the opening week­end of the season. 
"Scoring goals early is always a good thing; it relieves a lot of pres­sure, especially as a forward," McGeeney said. "If you don't score goals, the tension kind of builds up." 
Despite the stellar individual performances of his forwards so far this season, Clark remains wary of too much individual praise. 
"Sometimes you get [these awards] and sometime you don't, but I think you usually get them when the team's done well," he said. "When [a forward] scores a goal, there's usually an assist behind the goal,. and somebody had to win the ball first so it's usu­ally a team effort." 
Clark also noted that it takes a special type of player to be a goal scorer at this level. 
"If you are a forward, you're always living on the edge," he said. "There's always a fine line between it being a great game and it being a not so great game, and I think that's part of it, you need to be tough to survive and be a for­ward." 
This season, the Irish have five players who meet Clark's descrip­tion for goal scorers and who will compete to split time this season -Lapira, McGeeney, sophomore Bright Dike, junior Kurt Martin and freshman Tamba Samba, who could prove to be a solid contribu­tor despite the talent ahead of him. 
"It keeps everybody on their toes," Clark said. "One of the nice. things is that someday maybe it's not their day, or they get a minor injury like Justin had last weekend [missing the Indiana game], and the other players are very happy to fill in,; They all get on tremendously well. 
Naturally, the battle for playing time means there is strong compe­tition-even in practice. 
"There's rivalries; there will always be rivalry, but there's also great camaraderie," Clark said. 
However, the players see the intra-squad competition as a posi­tive. 
"We're playing people in practice that are just as good as half the people we come up against [in games], and that just makes us that much better," Lapira said. "I know that if I go out and bust my [rear] for 30 minutes, somebody else can come in for 15 minutes and bust theirs .... It just gives us a lot of opportunities for people to sub on, and we're confident that every forward that subs in is going score goals." 
Clark also believes each of his forwards will rise to the occasion during the course ofthe season. 
"Bright [Dike] can break out as well, [and] I wouldn't be surprised if Bright breaks out this weekend," he said. "Kurt Martin can also get goals ... and then, you know, you've got Tamba Samba waiting in the wings. We're very talented in that respect." 
As an offensive unit, each player plays a unique role on the squad, especially McGeeney, the only sen­ior forward Notre Dame has this season. 
"[McGeeney is] the father of all the younger strikers," Clark said. "He's the father of them all­maybe the grandfather of them all. He's the elder statesmen. They all look up to him, and he carries himself very well." 
McGeeney creilits the team's off­season workouts for the improved attack displayed early this year. 
'The spring was good for getting all of us on the same page," he said.. "More than anything, it was just getting us forwards together getting us to work with each other [and] work off each other. We know the kinds of runs each other makes. We kind of complement each other and know how each other play and it makes it easier." 
The two most experienced strik­ers, Lapira and McGeeney, have become especially close in their time together. 
"Me and 'Geeny have been play­ing together for three years now, [and] of the forwards, me and Justin are by far the closest friends," Lapira said. "We have our own little pregame ritual, and it's been that way since the begin­ning. It helps a lot having him." 
According to Lapira, that ritual includes writing the same phrase on their chests before each game. To Lapira however, the ritual is dose to his heart-and he's keep­ing it that way. 
"I don't think you would want to put that in the paper," he said. "It's just personal." 
Ironically, despite their history together and the fact that they have accounted for all but two of 


Notre Dame senior forward Justin McGeeney turns towards the goal in a 4-1 win over Creighton Aug. 27 at Alumni Field. 
Notre Dame's goals this season, neither McGeeney nor Lapira has scored while the other is on the field. 
"We kind of joke about that," Lapira said. "We play so well together we just haven't gotten it done this year." 
As far as the rest of the season, Lapira believes he has the exact goals as the rest of the forwards ­and the rest ofthe team. 
"I just want to make everyone else around me better, I guess that's every one of our goals, just to step up and make the team bet­ter," he said. "As a team, we just got to keep playing consistently. Obviously, everyone's goal is to make the tournament and win it, but it's a long way until then, so for now our goal is to beat South Florida." 
They'll get their chance Friday night at 7:30 at Alumni Field. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 


page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 6, 2006 
Russia 
continued from page 24 
needed. 
"We'll see how the games go as · to whether we play them or not," Waldrum said. 
Next week, when Bock and Dew resume full workouts with the team, Waldrum said they will have to earn their starting spots back. 
Several players, including fresh· men Amanda Clark and Michele Weissenhofer, have played well in the absence of Bock, a forward, and Dew, a defender. Notre Dame is 4-0 without Bock and Dew in the lineup and has scored 16 goals while allowing just two so far this season. 
"It's going to pose problems for us, but in a good way," Waldrum said. "Obviously, as well as the team has performed at times, it's going to be important to get them back, but at the same time the players who have been out there have done just fine. 
"We're going to have to see how everyone does at practice and then figure out our lineup." 
· Bock and Dew were in Russia since Aug. 12. The U.S. beat Congo, Argentina and France to advance out of the group stage, then downed Germany 4-1 in the quarterfinals. ln the semis, Team USA lost in a shootout to China after a scoreless tie and then fell to Brazil in the third place game, also_on penalty kicks. 
The Irish will take on TCU in Fort Worth, Texas at 7 p.m. Friday. The game against SMU in Dallas will begin at 1 p.m. Sunday. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 



SMC SocCER 
Young team kicks off home opener 
time between forward and
Nine freshman face 
midfield in her 16 starts last season and finished the
first collegiate foes 
year with two goals. Heline was a workhorse for the Belles, starting all 19By DAN MURPHY games and coming up with 
Sports Writer 

124 saves on the year for a 
1.35 goals against average. 
Saint Mary's takes the Heline will need to be on field against Albion College her toes against a powerful this afternoon in the season Albion offense this after­opener -and in addition to noon. The Britons have put battling the Britons, the up eight goals in their first Belles must overcome inex­two games, including a 6-0 perience. rout of Benedictine Colleg.e 
Nine Saint Mary's fresh­on Aug. 31. The explosive 
men will get their first taste attack has already seen six of college soccer as the different goal scorers with Belles look to build on last seniors Kristyn Darmafall year's 11-7-1 record. The and Danielle Shepard lead­Class of 2010 will get an ing the way with two early chance to contribute apiece. after losing three starters The Britons weak spot 
from last year's squad. may be in their defense, "I think we will do very spearheaded by freshman well," sopho-goalie Emily mor~ forward Heddon. The Lauren Hinton '7 think we will do inexperienced 
said. "We have Heddon has
very well. We have a 
a lot of fresh­looked strong men capable of lot offreshmen so far, but has 
stepping up capable ofstepping yet to face 
where we need consistent
up where we need

them the offensive
them the most. '' 

most." pressure in Hinton the Britons' knows the Lauren Hinton early season 
impact a rook­schedule.
Saint Mary's forward 

ie can have. In The Belles her debut last will look to fall, she led capitalize by the team with 14 goals and using the whole field also added two assists. The against the Albion defense quick striker once again got and moving the ball fre­off to a good start this sea­quently, Courtney said. son, scoring twice in the "It's important to play on Belles' only scrimmage -a both sides, whether it be 4-0 win over Anderson taking the ball up the flank College Aug. 26. and crossing, or switching 
Both of her goals were it up in the midfield," she 
assisted by older sister and said. senior captain Ashley Hinton said the team has Hinton. The midfielder had been too busy focusing on four assists in 2005 to go its own play to spend much 
along with her four goals time preparing specifically 
and a team-leading 7 5 for the Britons. shots. She received first "Since half of our team is team all-conference honors new, all we have been at the end of the year and is working on is our own 
expected to make a key game and trying to figure contribution again this sea­out who will play where," son. she said. 
The Belles wil'l also look Kickoff is 4 p.m. today at for senior leadership out of the SMC Soccer Field. goalkeeper Laura Heline and co-captain Colleen Contact Dan Murphy at Courtney. Courtney split dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Dame coach Charlie Weis said in his press conference
Poslusz~y 

Tuesday. "You can talk about toughness, you can talk about
continued from page 24 

athletic ability ... but instincts 
are something that some peo­The end result is simple. ple are out there and they got Arguably the best linebacker all the world of ability but 
in the country last sea-they don't have son -as a junior, he natural earned both the "All the good ones instincts. Butkus award for the "[Posluszny'sl
that play that 
nation's top linebacker a very natural and the Bednarik position have and smart, award for the nation's instincts that you instinctive play-top defensive player -er." · 
can't coach. " 
returns for his senior Top-caliber year as the anchor of a linebackers are corps that also wel­Charlie Weis no mystery to comes back junior Dan Notre Dame coach the Notre Dame Connor (76 tackles and offense, and to 
1.5 sacks in 2005 after Brady Quinn in recording 85 tackles and four particular, after last season's starts as a freshman). Fiesta Bowl. Ohio State senior 
"All the good ones that play A.J. Hawk terrorized the Irish that position have instincts for a two-sack, defensive MVP that you can't coach," Notre performance· in the 34-20 Buckeye victory. defense last season. But 
But while the size and physi­Walker expects not only cality the Irish saw from Posluszny, but also the entire Hawk (6-foot-1, 247 pounds) Penn State linebacker unit, to in the Fiesta Bowl will be mir­present problems Saturday. rored in the form of Posluszny "Their starting linebackers (6-foot-2, 238 are guys who 
pounds) Saturday, the Nittany Lions' overall defensive  "[Posluszny's] played in big  are very physi­cal," Walker said. "They  
formation will be different. "I think you could compare the  games, so a player like that ... you always respect  aren't the type of guys who are going to shake you or  
guys,  but  then  him."  juke  you  
these  are different  they're going to  
teams and they run a totally different scheme than Ohio  Ryan Harris Notre Dame tackle  come with a full head of steam and  
State," Notre Dame  basically take  

running back Darius Walker your head off." said. Penn State runs an atypical 
Walker -who had 22 car­defense in that it can start in ries for 99 yards and a touch­a 4-3 formation (four down down Saturday at Georgia linemen and three lineback­Tech -scored three touch­ers) and then quickly move downs against the Ohio State into a 3-4 formation, which 
features three down linemen and four linebackers, before the snap. 
Last week against Akron, this front seven combined to give up 33 yards rushing on 34 carries. Last season, the Nittany Lions were ranked in the top 20 in rushing defense, passing efficiency, scoring defense and total defense. 
And Posluszny· was that defense's face. 
"Obviously that's a veteran player right there," Notre Dame offensive tackle Ryan Harris said. "He's the anchor of their defense. He's per­formed at a high level for years now. 
"He's a guy who knows how to stay fired up.... He's played in big games, so a player like that, you always respect him." 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 



Wednesday, September 6, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD 

ALEC WHITE 
JUMBLE

JOCULAR 
MIKEARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 



J~rn&rn. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
Joe Domer added photos of people 
YOHEN 

j
rJ r 

©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
""'"':J 
All Rights Reserved. 
FITAH 

j
rJ r

tHOKERS I
CROISSANTWORLD 
IJ I (] 
www.jumble.com

tSWETID t
IJ I J I 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHAT THE= FURNI­TURE MAKER WANTED TO DO BEFORE HE WENT HOME. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
49 "Picture Perfect" star 50 Permission slips, e.g. 51 Astrolabe alternative 
DOWN 1 El Greco's "Bautismo de 
2 Milliner 3 Act on like a carbon filter 4 Barbie 
accessory 5 Buffet 6 Tabloid subj. 7 One of 
Chaucer's Canterbury pilgrims 
8 Mexican beer named for its hometown 
9 Marie, par exemple 1oCabriolet maker 11 Portrait finish? 12 Ferretlike carnivore 
13 Patriarch of the "First Family of Country Music" 
14Reel 16 Trammel 
22 The biggest part 
of a large belt 
23 Not pellucid 
25 Person with a crystal ball 
26 It was uttered in the past 27 Trapper's stock 28 Fashions 
WILLSHORTZ 

29 1985 Arnold 36 "Sweet _, run 42 Focus of many Schwarzenegger softly, till I end an X-ray film my song": 44 Predisposed to 30 Going rates? Spenser fightin' 37 Where to begin 45 Multiple of Cl 
31 Regular settings 38 Sea of 47 Georges Perec's 32 Plants that are California's 1969 novel "La 
a natural source Sonoran Desert 
Disparition" is of cyanide 
39 Terse demurral written entirely 34 One who holds 41 Like the Rock of 
without this a note Ages 48 Compass dir. 
·------------------­
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554 . 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________________________ _ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______________ State _____ Zip_______ 
A: 

.. rI I I I I J.. HIS rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: CLOTH LIVEN MEADOW GARBLESaturday's 
Answer: When the bowler was filmed for the ad, he became a-"ROLL" MODEL 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Rose McGowan, 32; Dweezil Zappa, 36; Cathy Guisewite, 55; Bob Newhart, 76 
Happy Birthday: Keep everything in check regarding health, finances and legal matters this year. If you don't keep on top of pending problems, you will not be able to take advantage of opportunities headed your way. Counteract your limitations by relying on friends. Your numbers are I, 4, 13, 23, 36, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April19): There are many opportunities to make personal 
improvements in your life. An opportunity to travel to help someone will enable 
you to meet others with the drive and Good Samaritan attitude you share. ••• 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Be relentless-you have so much happening 
where work and making money are concerned. Position yourself for advancement. 
Maintain a healthy lifestyle. *** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't let someone sabotage what you are trying 
to accomplish. Take control and put anyone who tries to oppose you in his or 
her place. ***** 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): It's up to you to find the information you need 
to get things back on track. Someone is overreacting, and it may be you. You 
may want to reassess your personal situation. ** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Position yourself for stardom. Focus on what you have 
to do to stand out from your peers. You can't go wrong if you are helpful, 
understanding and wear a big smile on your face. •••• 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): When it comes to business-related matters, trust 
your intuition. You can and will get ahead if you don't allow others do what you 
are capable ofdoing yourself. Be a little more creative in your delivery. *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): So much is happening that it will be hard for you 
to stay on top ofeverything. Trust in the people you feel are most creative and 
you can pull together a detailed and progressive concept. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): An investment can pay off. A chance to develop 
or start something new at home appears to have a very prosperous future. Don't 
trust anyone who is promising you too much. Get everything in writing. ••• 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be feeling like making a 
commitment, but give yourself time to really assess the situation. Love is sizzling 
hot, but don't make unrealistic promises. **** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will find yourself in an awkward position 
if you're too willing to take on other people's responsibilities. Make sure you 
don't fall behind because you've been too generous with your time. * • 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Things looks promising today, but don't waste 
time basking in the limelight. If you present your ideas, you will get a favorable 
response. ***** 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Everything depends on how you handle important 
matters today. Address legal, health and financial concerns. The dynamics ofa 
relationship are likely to change rapidly. ••• 
Birthday Baby: You are dependable and responsible, a no-nonsense person with tons ofcreativity. You are a doer, a challenger and a competitor. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 
ACROSS 1 Flirts with 8 Trying 
experiences 15 Eastbound waves? 17 "You and your conspiracy theories!" 18 Hera turned Antigone into one 19 Like the newspaper AI 
Shabiba 20 Main contents 21 Prefix with flop 22 Sea of_, 
south of the Cyclades 23 Death to le roi 24 Space ball? 25 Six layers of a song? 26 Met number, maybe 27 Like arctic winds 
28 Lenny Bruce, famously 29 Adjusts, as a magazine photo 32 Neckwear 33 Can't contain 34 Flock 
35 Setting for Edward Hopper's "Nighthawks" 
36 Paley's successor at CBS 
37 Michelin guide no.? 40 E.P.A. output: Abbr. 
41 Speed_ 
42 Duster, for one 43 "Story_" 
(Pauline Reage novel) 44 "32 Flavors" singer Davis 45 Dog topper 
46 Subjects of metaphysical research 


THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, September 6, 2006 
page 24 
fOOTBALL 

Lion low 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Sophotnores back from Russia after USA loss 
Waldrum not hurrying them into game action 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associare Sports Editor 
Two weeks after most Notre Dame students attended their first classes of the semester. sopho­mores Brittany Bock and Carrie Dew are finally back on campus. 
The pair 
rl"""'"""'"',..,..,..="~ returned from Hussia Tuesday after helping Team USA to a fourth place linish at the U­
20 World Champion­ships. Bock 
Bock and Dew combined for 15 goals and nine assists last season for the Irish, playing key roles in Notre Dame's 22-3 season that included a Big East Championship and a quarterfinal run in the NCAA Tournament. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum said the pair will not immediately return to practice for Notre Dame. 

"We're going to give them the week to get adjusted to the travel and the time zone and recover from the tournament they just fin­ished," Waldrum said. "More importantly, we're giving them time to get the academic side of things taken care of. That's got to 

be our biggest priority since they've missed so much class." 
Waldrum said Bock and Dew may work out with the team 

Dew today, but will 
not participate in the full practice. The Iri'ih leave tomorrow for Dallas, Texas, where they will face SMU and TCU this weekend. 
As for Bock and Dew, Waldrum said they will only be inserted into the lineup if he feels they are 
see RUSSIA/page 20 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Shiker earns Big East honors 
Lapira part ofstacked Irish scoring attack 
By ERIC RETTER Associare Sports Editor 
In the 98th minute of Sunday's game against Indiana, junior forward Joseph Lapira won the ball, beat the Hoosiers' last defender to the inside and chipped the ball into the back of the net -giving No. 8 Notre Dame a 5-4 victory. 
Lapira's game-winning goal was his fourth of the day in the win over the Hoosiers (ranked No. 8 heading into the game). His four-goal total was one shy of Notre Dame's all-time record set by Kevin Lovejoy in 1993 (5). 
For his efforts, which set a record in the 24-year history of the adidas/IU Credit Union Oassic, Lapira was named Top Drawer's National Player of the Week and the offensive MVP of the tournament. 

"Joe has all the credentials to be first team All-Big-East play-Observer 
see STRIKER/page 21 
Butkus winner awaits Notre Dame Saturday 
By BOB GRIFFIN Sports Wrirer 
Penn State linebacker Paul Posluszny injured his right knee in the fourth quarter of the 2006 Orange Bowl -a bizarre positive for the Nittany Lions, but a definite negative for opposing offenses this season. 
Posluszny's team went on to beat Florida State in an epic three-overtime 26-23 victory despite his injury, and the senior linebacker from Aliquippa, Penn. was forced to sit out through spring prac­tice even though his knee did not require surgery. 
But with the lllJUry, Posluszny was also likely forced to abandon any thought of entering the NFL draft after a season where he registered 116 tackles and three sacks. The NFL combine takes place during the off­
season  - the  same  time  
Posluszny  was  recovering  
from his injury.  

see POSLUSZNY/page 22 

foe Pa stears players awayfrom distractions 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 

Don't tell Joe Paterno about the hype. He's not interested. 
Penn State's coach deflect­ed questions about the buildup to Saturday's game, insisting he can only focus on the strategy of the game at hand. 
"I haven't got the slightest idea of hype," Paterno said in his weekly teleconference Tuesday. "We've got a good tough football game to play. ... Hype is hype. Somebody would have to describe hype to me. I'm not even sure I could spell it correctly." 
Reporters are swarming University Park, which has had some repercussions. 
Paterno, entering his 41st year at Penn State, restricted access to players Tuesday, saying the intense media attention would distract even the seniors from their game preparations and daily rou­
see HYPE/page 20 
Notre Dame forward Joe Lapira challenges UAB defender Dejan Jakovic in the double OT 1-0 loss Aug. 25 at Alumni Field. 
U) SMC SOCCER 
NHl
NFL 

MlB-Al 
MLB-Al
FIFA 
LLI 
Manning brothers, 
Evgeni Malkin joins 

Italy's Marco
u Albion at 

Minnesota 8 
Boston 1 

Peyton and Eli, find 
Penguins despite pres-

Materazzi admits to
...... z Saint Mary's 
Tampa Bay 0 
Chicago 0 

themselves in spotlight 
sure to play in Russia. 

insulting France's 
Twins lefty Johan 
Red Sox designated
cc :3 

Zinedine Zidane' s sister
as teams set to play each 
hitter David Ortiz

Santana wins 17th
=c::J Today, 4 p.m. 

in World Cup Final. 
other Sunday. 
game, allowing no 
returns to Red Sox 

~ The Belles welcome 
runs in eight innings. 
lineup.

the Britons in their sea-
a. ti 
son opener 
page 16

U) page 22 
page 16
page 19 
page 18 
page 17 




