
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Notre Dame community mourns death of Brann 

Over 200 present at memorial mass for senior lost in accident 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
Family, friends, classmates and members of the Notre Dame com­munity gathered at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Monday evening for a memorial Mass to remember Caitlin Brann, 22, a senior killed in a car accident Nov. 10. 
With Brann's picture displayed beside the altar, senior Adria Helmich shared one of her fondest memories of her friend and fellow Pasquerilla East resident -the day Brann asked her to teach her how to box. 
"She put up her fists and started laughing ... I couldn't help but think that this was the same girl who dressed up as 'Kill Bill' on Halloween," Helmich said, calling it a "tremendous privilege, honor and blessing" to have been friends with Caty. 
"She was the friend you wanted to have," Helmich said. 
University President Father John Jenkins, who presided over the Mass, said although a few weeks have passed since Brann's death, her loss remains painful for her family and friends. Her death is especially tragic since she died at such a young age, Jenkins said, when she was full of life and hope and making plans for her future. 
In her short life, Brann accom­plished much and made many good friends, he said, and "we are grateful for the years that she had." 
Even as the community mourns her loss, the:,;: look forward to her eternal life, Jenkins said. 
"We remember her today with gratitude for her life and friend­ship, but we can't escape the sad­ness of losing her," he said. 
Brann's parents, brother and sister were present at the Mass. Jenkins said Brann's father told him that Caitlin had made plans to go to the Notre Dame-USC game Nov. 25. 
"She had a plane ticket, but she didn't have a ticket to the game," Jenkins said. "But she was a shrewd businesswomen, and she was confident that she was going to get that ticket." 
Jenkins encouraged the approx­imately 200 people who attended the Mass to call upon their faith to help them through their loss. 
"I think one of the great 
see MASS/page 6 
Lottery to grant2,500 bowl tickets 
By JOE PAIRULLI Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame students will be getting their share of the sugar when the Irish play the LSU Tigers Jan. 3. 
Of the 17,500 total Sugar Bowl tickets allotted to Notre Dame, 2,500 of those will be made available to students. According to Director of Ticket Operations Josh Berlo and an e-mail sent to the stu­dent body, the ticket office is, like last year, holding a lottery to give students the opportu­nity to buy tickets for the Bowl Championship Series (BCS) bowl game against LSU. The contest will be Notre Dame's second BCS game in a row. 
Students are allowed to bring up to four student IDs, including their own, to Legends on Thursday from 9 
a.m. to 5 p.m. to get a lottery ticket. 
If that number is one of the 2,500 numbers randomly cho­sen, the owner has the oppor­tunity to buy one ticket on Friday at Gate B of the Notr-e Dame Stadium Ticket Office between 7 a.m. and 4 p.m. at a cost of $125. Students may bring up to four winning lot­tery tickets with student IDs. 
The one-ticket-per-winning­lottery-number limit is a change from last year. 
"At the request of the stu­dents we reduced the limit from two to one [ticket] per student," Berlo said. 
The list of winning numbers will be available online at 
see BOWL/page 6 



ND puts Africa project in motion 
Jenkins, select faculty set to visit Uganda 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Editor 
Uganda is the winter break destination of choice for University President Father John Jenkins, who will travel to the east African country Jan. 4 for a 10-day "explorato­ry trip" in correlation with the Notre Dame Millennium Development Initiative (NDMDI).. 
"We're actually meeting with Father John this week to go through details," Associate Vice President for Marketing Todd Woodward said. "This is just the first step in the proj­
see JENKINS/page 3 
Students serve through winter seminars 
are over but new classes have not yet commenced -serves as a perfect opportunity for some 
students,  like  sophomore  
Meghan  Soriano,  to  get  
involved.  

"I have more free time to real­ly just enjoy [the seminar]," said Soriano, who plans to take part in a two-day Boston Urban Plunge, "and not have some of the added pressures that maybe a fall break or a spring break seminar would have had." 
While many students may see the break as an excellent oppor­tunity to participate in service, constraints on the amount of openings in the winter seminars still exist. Pettit noted in an e­mail that "all winter seminars have a limited number of stu­dents that can participate due to 
see CSC/page 6 


University to partner with Ugandan village 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
News Writer 
Editor's note: This is the first story in a two-part series examin­ing the goals of the Notre Dame Millennium Development Initiative in Uganda, the involve­ment of the University's adminis­tration, faculty and student body and the international organiza­tions that will contribute to the project. 
"God. Planet, Notre Dame" could become the University's new oath as it expands the sphere of its Catholic mission beyond national borders to Africa. Notre Dame will soon 
see VILLAGE/page 6 


By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 

A few hundred students will trade in some of the free time offered by winter break this year to get involved in social issues through the Center for Social Concerns (CSC)'s winter seminars. 
The 316 students -which, according to CSC Urban Programming Director Rebecca Pettit, is an increase from last year -will participate in semi­nars like the Church and Social Action: Urban Plunge; Organizing, Power and Hope; the Holy Cross Mission in Education; and Border Issues. 
The four-week long break between the fall and spring semesters -when final exams 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, December 5, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Loving Darlene Love 
The New York Times once said, "Darlene Love's thunderbolt voice is as embedded in the history of Rock­and-Roll as Eric Clapton's guitar or Bob Dylan's lyrics." Everyone knows Dylan and Clapton, but Chris Hine who is 
Darlene Love? Only the Sports Writer 
singer of the greatest Christmas song e~r: "Christmas (Baby, Please Come Home)." 
Love is a victim of circumstance, someone who had the talent to become a household name, but the people who handled her career, com­bined with the changing times and bad luck, prevented her from becom­ing a big star. 
Legendary producer Phil Spector discovered Love and her booming voice back in the early 1960s. She sang lead on a few of the producer's biggest hits -but as a guest lead singer on some of Spector's girl groups, not as a solo act. Eventually, Spector released some songs with Love listed as a solo artist, but they did not fare as well as Love's previ­ous releases. 
As the years passed in the '60s, Spector started to give his attention to the Righteous Brothers and the thinner-voiced Veronica Bennett, lead singer of the Ronettes (also Spector's love interest at the time). While Love was stuck playing second fiddle under Spector's control, other singers with less talent than Love found success under different pro­ducers. Had Love been in a different place during this time, her career could have taken a different direc­tion. 
Spector worked with some of the top songwriters of the day, but he did not give Love their better material. Instead, Spector would give Mann!Weil's "You've Lost That Lovin' Feelin'" to the Righteous Brothers while giving Love songs with less hit potential. Then, as the British Invasion hit, Love was stuck singing her heart out for Spector. By the late 1960s, Spector's records were out of vogue, and Love found herself singing backup for more popular acts of the tim~. 
Nevertheless, Love did manage to make one record under Spector that ensures that countless generations will get to hear her voice. 
She recorded "Christmas" for Spector's now-legendary Christmas album. As was the case with previous songs, Spector gave the Ronettes the first crack at the song, but Bennett's voice could not summon the strength the song requires. For once, Love was in the right place at the right time. The song, featuring Love's booming vocal, has become a mod­ern classic. 
After researching Love's story, the song has a different meaning. It serves as a reassurance that even if the hands of fate and time combine to drag you down, if you struggle and fight them hard enough, you will get them to loosen their grip even if for just one moment. Darlene Love took advantage of that moment. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH IS WORSE, WRITING A PAPER OR TAKING A TEST? 





Clare Halloran  Jon Merck  Mark Skylling  Matt Schochenmaier  Mike Peterson  Sean Rooney  
senior off-campus  sophomore O'Neill  sophomore Keenan  graduate student off-campus  senior off-campus  freshman Keenan  
''A paper is worse, because it requires more reflection and has huge procrastination potential."  "Taking a test, because you have to be sober fior t."tf''  "Taking a test, because after all that studying, you still have to take the test."  "Taking a test, because it's harder to cheat than to plagiarize. "  ''A paper, because I've got 20 pages due Wednesday, and ifyou ask me one more question, my  "Writing a paper ­I hate writing, it's as simple as that."  


Manager arrested for garbage in lard 
BEIJING -A factory manager in east China has been arrested for using grease from swill, sewage, pesticides and recycled industrial oil to make lard for human con­sumption, state media said Monday in the coun­try's latest food scare. 
Ying Fuming, a manag­er at the Fanchang Grease Factory in Taizhou, a city in Zhejiang province, sold the lard at half the price of other wholesalers while promising that his prod­uct met safety standards, the Shanghai Daily said. 
The factory was shut down and local health and food authorities began an investigation this year after an anony­mous tip indicated that the plant "recycled large amounts of used grease to process substandard lard," the newspaper said. 
Haircut could get principal in hot water 
ALBUQUERQUE -The principal of Hio Grande High School could be in trouble for taking one of his students to a barber shop without permission of the pupil's parents. 
AI Sanchez could face disciplinary action, Albuquerque public school district officials said. 
"Students should not be taken off of campus by any staff member without parental permission," said Higo Chavez, district spokesman. 
Sanchez said he thought Fidel Maldonado Jr.'s hair style-the number "505" and a Zia symbol shaved into the back of his head -was a gang haircut. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 

32 22 

30 
18 


19 10 
1.&.1 
:::r: 
~ 
1.&.1 
3: 
...1 
ct 
(.) 

0 
HIGH 27
..... 
LOW 20 
head will explode. " 
IN BRIEF 
Farzad Mashayek, professor of mechanical and industrial engi­neering at the University of Illinois at Chicago, will be the fea­tured speaker at a seminar called "Can Renewable Liquid Fuels Quench Our Energy Thirst?" today at 3:30 p.m. in 138 DeBartolo. 
Jeff Jackson, the head coach of Notre Dame's hockey team, will discuss the first part of the season and upcoming games at noon Wednesday at Legends. 
The Notre Dame's women's basketball team will play Purdue Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Christmas at the CoMo Benefit Concert by the ND Celebration Choir is Wednesday at 7:30p.m. in the first floor Coleman Morse student lounge. International stu­dents will provide reflections of Christmas in their home coun­tries. There is no admission charge, but a freewill offering will be sent to St. Jude's Primary School, Jinja, Uganda. 
All full-time faculty and staff are invited to a Christmas open house Thursday by University President Father John Jenkins and officers of the University. The event lasts from 2:30 to 5 p.m. and will be held on the 2nd, 3rd and 4th floors of the Main Building. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will perform its Christmas Concert Friday from 9 to 10:30 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


34 
20 

37 27 

~------------------~------~~~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, December 5, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group plans to include Fo"Wlkes at meeting 
By LIZ HARTER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) members voted to invite chief informa­tion officer Keith Fowlkes to their final meeting of the semester Monday night. 
Fowlkes wishes to visit BOG to discuss issues that arose when President Carol Ann Mooney held an information session with the Board three weeks ago. 
"[Fowlkes will] discuss ResNet and anything at infor­mation technology that we have questions about," said Student Body President Susan Mcllduff. 
Fowlkes approached Mcllduff about speaking to BOG, but the board first had to invite him to a meeting to address the issue. 
Technology commissioner Elizabeth D'Aurora announced that she has also talked to Fowlkes about ResNet, and she speculated on some topics that he might address. 
"He [will] probably talk a lit­tle bit about the residence hall clusters and why they don't have printers, and what we can do to change that," D'Aurora said. "I think it would be really helpful." 
After agreeing to invite 
Fowlkes to an upcoming meet­ing, BOG discussed the ongo­ing "12 Days of Christmas" event. Sponsored by the senior board, the event raises money to purchase presents and dec­orations for needy families in the South Bend area. 
"At the bake sale [held Thursday in LeMans Hall], they sold $400 [worth of baked goods]. and we've sold over 100 '12 Days' passes and over 100 to-go mugs," senior class president Kat Kindt said. "The sophomore board also donated $150 from their dance. It's going well." 
In Other BOG News: 
+The freshman board is sponsoring an Angel Tree that is set up in the lobby of McCandless Hall. 
+Christmas Around the World will take place tomor­row in Reinbeaux Lounge in LeMans Hall. 
+The annual Late Night Breakfast will take place Monday at 10 p.m. The break­fast is open to all students, including those who live off­campus. 
+"The DaVinci Code" and "National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation" will be shown in Vander Vennet the­ater this weekend. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Jenkins 
continued from page 1 
ect." 
The "we" Woodward refers to is the group of University repre­sentatives accompanying both Jenkins and Woodward to Uganda, including Executive Assistant to the President Frances Shavers, Director of NDMDI Father Bob Dowel, Assistant Director in the Office of the President Tim Lyden and Africana Studies department chair Richard Pierce. 
Woodward said the group is now departing a day later than originally scheduled due to Notre Dame's Sugar Bowl game Jan. 3. 
The group is getting together tomorrow to talk to Dowd, who has been "back for about a week" from his November trip to Uganda, Woodward said. 
"I think you'll see a bigger trip in the spring," Woodward said. "For now, we're really [going to Uganda] to listen ... The first step is always listening to find out what help they need." 
In a letter 'to potential group members The Observer obtained from the Office of News and Information, Jenkins said the Millennium Village Project (MVP) has four main goals: increasing agricultural productivity, connecting people to markets and information, eradicating preventable disease and expanding access to basic healthcare and education. 
"The purpose of the trip is to explore and build relationships in Africa and specifically Uganda; to learn about the region's opportunities and chal­lenges; and to highlight our commitment to the Notre Dame Millennium Development Initiative (MDI)," Jenkins said. "As a reflection of our mission as a Catholic university, I am hopeful that we can expand our knowledge and consider ways to collaborate with those who live and work in Africa." 
Jenkins described Uganda as a place of "cultural richness." Slightly smaller than the state of Oregon, Uganda is home to nearly 28 million people, 85 percent of whom are Christian. Forty different languages are spoken throughout the country, Jenkins wrote, though "English is the nation's official language and Luganda is the most widely spoken language." 
Part of Jenkins' goal in travel­ing to Uganda, however, is to consider ways to address the country's various educational, economic and health-related difficulties. 
Despite its cultural richness, Uganda has a 4.1 percent adult prevalence rate of AIDS/HIV and a life expectancy of 51.68 years for men and 53.69 years for women, Jenkins wrote. 
His letter acknowledged some of the additional problems plaguing Uganda that will likely be addressed during "a produc­tive exchange with those who live and work in Uganda." 
"Literacy rates lag behind many other countries. Only 87 percent of men above the age of 15 are able to read and write, and only 77 percent of women above the age of 15 are able to read and write," Jenkins said. "In contrast, in the U.S., 99 per­cent of both men and women 
are literate." 
According to a tentative itin­erary, the group's first event will be attending a celebration of Holy Cross final vows in the country's capital of Kampala. Other noteworthy events include dinner with the Holy Cross community and Notre Dame alumni in Jinja, touring the Holy Cross grounds and meetings with Millennium Village science coordinator David Siriri, the village council and villagers. 

"During our trip, we are arranging to meet with various people including leaders of the Ugandan community, members of the Holy Cross community and the leadership team of Uganda Martyrs University," Jenkins said. 
Jenkins and the rest of the group will visit the site of the partner village -probably located in the vicinity of Nkozi -with Millennium Village Project coordinator for Uganda Johnson Nkuuhe Jan. 9, 
Time is also set aside for visi­tors to "process Kampala, Jinja, Mbarara, Ruhiira, Nkozi [and] urban poverty versus rural poverty" in preparation for group discussions. 
Visiting the Shrine to the 45 Catholic and Anglican Ugandan Martyrs executed in 1886 -a site visited by several popes ­may also be on the agenda. 
According to the schedule, Jenkins will meet with the Bishops of Uganda Jan. 11 in Kampala for a luncheon and with the Uganda Martyrs University Vice Chancellor, Deputy Vice Chancellor and Deans Jan. 12. 
The group will be spending most nights at the Hotel Africana in Kampala. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 

UNIVERSITY. 
Hf:AI.Tll S.ERVICES 
The Health Center -will CLOSE on S~ttuR~(Jay., December~ 16d:t at N<»(ltl...
.. 
The Health Center Pharmacy wiD CL<">SE on Friday., Decel'tll~,e~-15th at 6 PI\tl.. 
The Health Center and Pharnaacy will RE-OPEN on M()nday.., ...Januar)' 15°1 at 8arn at our newly renovated building 
St. Liarn Hall 
)(>cated north o'fthe Main Buildin.g and behind Keenan and Stan'ford lialls. 
Ifyou will need prescriptions filled for the break., or ify('.>U have any questions~ please call or stop in by ·oecember 15th,. For f'urtber InforiDation: Visit our website at ~ttu:/ltlhs_nd ... t.~du 
Or can the Health Center -574-631-7497 or t:be PharDJ.acy: 574-631-6574 
---------.. 
page 4 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, December 5, 2006 
--,----~---­
---.-.­
Your Opportunity. Your Knovvledge. Your Career. 
At Huron our people are our greatest asset. We invest in your development from your technical expertise to your personal and professional development. We help you enable your current abilities and develop them to reach your highest potential. As an employer we value personal growth. And we know you will continue to grow with us. 

A special thank you to all of our Notre Dame Alumni who have participated in .the campus recruiting season. 
Tom Bechert  Zach Gamblin  Nathan Lohmeyer  Maureen Rochio  
Jennifer Bezdicek  Andy Horner  Stephen Muto  Mary Sawall  
Bill Bonner  Stephanie Hunter  Patrick Muzin  Betsy Scheib  
Clare Brophy  John Hutchinson  Ricky Nieto  Becky Shepkowski  
Katie Crawford  Julie Johnson  Katie O'Connell  Jim Stuart  
Dan Delaney  Mike Kennelly  Justin Oldham  Anne Sullivan  
Pam DePierre  Frank Krakowski  Eric Plutnicki  Joe Taylor  
Tim Fetter  Matt Krizmanich  Alex Rice  Joe Wyss  
Susie Gallagher  Matthew Lawrence  

We offer a competitive compensation and benefits package that includes medical/dental/vision, 401{k), stock purchase, and a generous vacation and personal/sick plan. Huron Consulting Group is an equal opportunity employer. We recruit employ, compensate, transfer, promote and train without regard to race, color, creed. religion, national origin, sex, marital status, pregnancy, disability, sexual orientation. veteran status, age, FMLA status or any other basis protected by law. 
Huron Consulting Group helps clients effectively address complex challenges that arise in litigation. disputes, investigation, regulatory compliance, procurement, financial distress, and other sources of significant conflict or change. The Company also delivers superior customer and capital market performance through integrated strategic, operational, and organizational change. Huron provides services to a wide variety of both financially sound and distressed rganizations, including Fortune 500 companies, medium-sized businesses, leading academic Institutions, healthcare organizations, and the law firms that represent these various organizations. 
www.huronconsultinggroup.com 1-866-229-8700 







Hu n 
CONSULTING GROUP 
© 2006 Huron Consulting Services LLC. All rights reserved 


ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, December 5, 2006 CoMPILED FR<)M THE OBSERVER'S WlRE sERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Brazil creates new protected areas 
RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil -A swath of Amazon rain forest the size of Alabama was placed under government protection Monday in a region infamous for violent conflicts among loggers, ranchers and environmentalists. 
The protected territory totals 57,915 square miles of the Guayana Shield region, an area of Amazon forest stretching across international borders that contains more than 25 percent of the world's remaining humid tropical forests and the largest remaining unpolluted fresh water reserves in the American tropics. 
The protected areas will link to existing reserves to form a vast preservation corridor eventually stretching into neighboring Guyana, Suriname and French Guiana. While the entire Guaycma Shield corridor is not yet protected, portions of it in each country are now covered. 
Blair llllveils nuclear arsenal proposal 
LONDON -Prime Minister Tony Blair launched plans Monc4•y for a new multibil­lion-dollar submarine-based nuclear missile defense system. warning lawmakers the future may hold perilous threats from rogue regimes and state-sponsored terrorists. 
In what is expected to be among his last major acts as premier. Blair told the House of Commons that despite the end of the Cold War, potential threats were posed by North Korea, Iran and others. 
"In these circumstances, it would be unwise and dangerous for Britain alone of any of the nuclear powers to give up its inde­pendent nuclear deterrent," he said. 
Blair said Britain would cut back on its stock of nuclear warheads from 200 to 160 -a move intended to make the proposal more acceptable to detractors within his own party. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Man pleads guilty ofslaying 5-year-old 
SALT LAKE CITY -A man pleaded guilty Monday to kidnapping and killing a 5-year­old neighbor whose body was stored in his cellar while hundreds of people searched for her. 
Craig Gregerson, 20, gave no explanation of his crimes but offered a letter of apology to Destiny Norton's family. After pleading guilty to aggravated murder and kidnap­ping, he was immediately sentenced to life in prison without parole. 
Destiny had been missing for eight days when police found her body stuffed in a plastic storage box in Gregerson's cellar, just two doors away from her home, on July 24. 
Authorities believe Destiny died within an hour of her disappearance July 16. 
E. coli outbreak linked to Taco Bell 
SOUTH PLAINFIELD, N.J. -An E. coli outbreak that has sickened at least 22 peo­ple -two of them seriously -was linked by health investigators Monday to three Taco Bell restaurants in New Jersey. 
All but two of the people who fell ill had eaten at one of the fast-food restaurants between Nov. 17 and Nov. 28, authorities said. But exactly what food contained the bacteria was still unclear. 
"We have to find the food they all had in common," said David Papi, director of health for Middlesex County. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Indiana home to become bank branch 
GEORGETOWN, Ind. -A 174-year-old home on the verge of being demolished will be restored and turned into a bank branch. 
First Harrison Bank announced plans to purchase the hom·e near Georgetown, about 10 miles west of Louisville, Ky., restore it and build an office addition and a drive-through. 
"We try to be community minded," Sam Uhl, First Harrison's president and chief executive officer, said Friday. "It's an excel­lent location for a branch, plus we're pre­serving." · 
The two-story brick home is on Indiana 64, west of the Interstate 64 exit to Georgetown. 

Bush meets with Shiite leader 
President not satisfied with Iraqi efforts to curb extremist violence 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Pres­ident Bush told a Shiite political leader on Monday the United States is not happy with progress in Iraq and sought the cleric's help to curb extremists and terrorists trying to undermine the struggling new democracy. 
Abdul-Aziz al-Hakim said U.S. troops need to stay in Iraq to help deal with escalating violence. He also told Bush that Iraq welcomes help from other nations, including those in the Middle East, so long as they do not bypass Iraq's political process. . 
"Iraq should be in a posi­tion to solve Iraqi prob­lems," al-Hakim told Bush after they met in the Oval Office for more than an hour. 
Some consider al-Hakim. who lived in exile in Iran for years, a more powerful political figure than Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al­Malild. Al-Hakim leads the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq, the largest Shiite bloc in Iraq's parliament. His party also is backed by the Badr Brigade militia blamed for sectarian killings. 

The meeting was evi­dence that Bush, under pressure to find a new ommendations. Bush also He spoke on condition of problems." blueprint for his war strat­plans to meet next month anonymity because he was Later, in a speech at the egy, was getting more per­with Iraq's Sunni Vice not authorized to divulge U.S. Institute of Peace in sonally involved in the President Tariq al­details of the meeting. Washington, al-Hakim said political infighting among Hashemi. Last week, he The official said it wasn't Iraq is interested in creat­Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds. met in Jordan with al­known whether al-Hakim ing good relations with all 
"I told him that we're not Maliki. specifically asked Bush to neighboring nations, satisfied with the pace of Before al-Hakim's visit to enlist Iran's assistance. Al­including Kuwait, Saudi progress in Iraq, and that the United States, two al­Hakim told reporters that Arabia, Turkey, Iran, Syria we want to continue to Maliki aides and a third he vehemently opposes any and Jordan. work with the sovereign person close to al-Hakim regional or international But he said: "We do not government of Iraq," Bush said the cleric was expect­effort to solve Iraq's prob-. want to distribute shares said. He said the young ed to try to persuade Bush !ems that goes around the of power to neighboring Iraqi government needs to to enlist Iran's help in unity government in countries, but rather we be given more capability as quelling violence in Iraq. Baghdad. want balanced relations." quickly as possible to Bush spoke with al­"We reject any attempts Al-Hakim said he talked secure the country from Hakim directly about Iran to have a regional or inter­with Bush about equip­extremists and murderers. and Syria and the critical national role in solving the ment, including arma­
Bush is meeting on need for them to respect Iraqi issue," the cleric, ments, that the Iraqi secu­Thursday with British Iraqi sovereignty and stop who speaks Arabic, said rity forces need. He Prime Minister Tony Blair destructive activity that through a translator. "We pledged that the govern­-a day after the biparti­undermines Iraq's unity cannot bypass the political ment would deal with all san Iraq Study Group government, a senior process. Iraq should be in forms of terrorism, no issues its long-awaited rec-administration official said. a position to solve Iraqi matter where they origi-



Bolton to leave as U.N. ambassador 
Associated Press have concluded that my service in United Nations. 
your administration should end But Democrats opposed Bolton, 

WASHINGTON -Lacking the when the current recess appoint­whom they viewed as a brusque, ill­votes to keep his job, embattled U.N. ment expires." suited diplomat. Some Republicans Ambassador John Bolton said "I accepted. I'm not happy about helped scuttle his nomination, Monday he would resign, a defeat it," Bush said Monday afternoon in including moderate Republican Sen. for a chagrined President Bush who the Oval Office, with Bolton at his Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island. had clung to hopes of Senate confir­side. Bush did not name a replace­The president had stinging words mation. ment, and officials offered no for them. 
Bolton got the position in August timetable for an announcement. "They chose to obstruct his confir­2005, appointed by Bush when The setback for the White House mation, even though he enjoys Congress was in recess. With that seemed to put a hold on the post­majority support in the Senate. and temporary assignment about to election talk of bipartisanship. even though their tactics will disrupt expire, and his long fight for confir­Bush considered Bolton a strong our diplomatic work at a sensitive mation going nowhere, Bolton made voice as the U.N. dealt with crises in and important time," Bush said in a it official. Iraq, Lebanon, North Korea and statement. "This stubborn obstruc­
He handed in a resignation letter other complex matters around the tionism ill serves our country." that did not mention the political world. Bolton also pushed the Democrats, though, said Bolton's fight behind it. It said simply: "I administration's ef(ort to reform the resignation signaled a fresh start. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, December 5, 2006 
crates the bread and wine and Brann, a marketing major 
Freshman Miriam Olsen also prays for those who have from Orland Park, Ill., lost con­
applied for Urban Plunge in
Mass 
esc

died -to remember Brann. trol of her 2000 Chevrolet 
Kansas City because of the pos­This way, every Mass will be a Cavalier convertible at 2:13 a.m. 
sibility of establishing a connec­
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 

prayer of remembrance for her, EST Nov. 10 willie she was driv­
tion with her home community. strengths of the Notre Dame Jenkins said. ing west on Interstate 80-90 near 
resources and the capacity of "I thought that it was a really community in times like this is "Caty is not with us, but we LaPorte, Ind. Brann's rear pas­
the hosting sites." unique and ... relevant way to that we do come together to hope she is with God, and with senger-side tire blew out, caus­
If forced to choose among do community service," said remember, to pray and to com­God, she remains with us as well, ing her ear to roll several times 
applicants, Pettit said that prior­Olsen. "And I like the idea of mend to God someone we are in a different way," he said. before landing upside down. 
ity is given to students who being able to do service in my very close to," he said. Helmich said she believes LaPorte County Chief Deputy 
"have demonstrated interest in own city." Jenkins said there are no those who die live on in the Coronor John Sullivan declared 
the topic of the seminar." The While students do have a answers for why Brann's life was memories of the people who Brann dead at the scene due to 
esc also takes into account strong desire to learn more cut short, but suggested that knew them. "massive head injuries." 
timeliness of the application and about the world around them those who knew her use the "I hope we all remember how 
previous seminar experience, and contribute to communities Eucharistic prayer -the part of much laughter and love Caty Contact Kaidynn Riely at 
she said. through the seminars, there are the Mass when the priest conse-gave us," Helmich said. kriely@nd.edu 
The majority of students still some reservations because 
applying for winter seminars the seminars provide an unfa­apply for the Urban Plunge, miliar ·experience. from stu­Pettit said, adding that the pro­dents' day-to-day lives. 
Notre Dame will be involved," breaks in the mid 1980s, gram has more than 35 loca­"We'll be eating in the souphe wrote in a letter from which resulted in a decline in

Village 

tions in major cities. More posi­kitchens that we're working inKampala during his excursion. the prevalence rates from 18.3 
tions mean a higher acceptance and sleeping in the urban situa­continued from page 1 The MVP -a partnership percent in 1992 to approxi­rate for applicants. tion," said Soriano. "I do havebetween MP, Columbia mately 6 percent in 2000. The Students have various reasons some hesitation in that regard,partner with a Ugandan vil­University's Earth Institute, decrease is attributed to 
for participating in the semi­but not enough that it would
lage to contribute to its devel­the UN Millennium Project and favorable prevention policies, nars. prevent me from going or any­opment and help the commu­
the African national govern­said the commission's Web 
"Some are motivated by their thing like that." 
nity meet the United Nations' ments -will also "establish a site. Those past successes,

Millennium Development 

faith; others have a deep inter­Similarly, Olsen feels "nerv­
foundation of evidence that Lyden said, make it a good
Goals (MDGs). 

est in the topic or have a desire ous" about Urban Plunge andrural Africa can be on the place for the MVP to start.
These goals include the 

to learn more," Pettit said. anticipates a definite "shockpath towards achieving the He also said ho is collectingreduction of poverty, hunger, Growing up in a suburban value" to the whole experience. 
MDGs using science-based, information about the region,
disease, illiteracy, environ­

environment impacted Soriano's "Afterwards, I hope to enjoyproven and practical interven­to become familiar with the
mental degradation and dis­

deeision to participate in Urban the experience so much that Itions over a five-year time­area's health, agricultural andcrimination against women ­Plunge. continue to go back to the siteframe," the MP release said. service needs. 
all before the beginning of "To be really honest, I've where I volunteered," saidDowd said the University The University's efforts

2015. 
never really been exposed to an Olsen.

expected to join forces with would mark the beginning of a At the Notre Dame Forum urban environment as much," The football season at Notrelocal institutions and villagers new phase in the Millennium 
on global health earlier this 

she said. "This just looked like a Dame -and the possibility of a 
to increase agricultural pro­Villages Project in Uganda,
semester, University President really good opportunity to me to bowl game -does affect theductivity, combat preventable Lyden said. A partnership like

Father John Jenkins 

travel and just ... get hands on applicant pool for winter semi­
diseases, build channels that of Notre Dame and its
announced the University's 

wit~ a community service proj­nars, but Pettit said the numberbetween the community and partner village will replicatedecision to participate in the ect. of applicants has not suffered.
the exterior markets and intervention models flourish­Millennium Villages Project Since the Urban Plunge expe­Still, "potential bowl game dates improve the healthcare and ing in other Ugandan villages (MVP) in Uganda, where the rience will be so new to Soriano, were considered during the ini­education systems. -modifying them to suit theCongregation of the Holy Cross she said that she looks forward tial planning of the seminarTo achieve this, he empha­conditions of any given village has established a strong pres­to "gaining a different perspec­dates," she said. 
sized the importance of com­elsewhere, according to the ence. 
tive ... a way of thinking I didn't municating and collaborating MP Web site. 

The project aims to "empow­have before, that I wasn't Contact Emma Driscoll atwith the Ugandans. The 12 initial projects were er individual African villages exposed to before." edriscol@nd.edu

"We must listen to the real launched in 10 different coun­to achieve the MDGs through development experts, the peo­tries across the African conti­
the implementation of com­

ple who struggle for survival nent in the last two years,prehensive, community-based, 
demand for Notre Dame'seach and every day in rural including Ethiopia, Ghana,low-cost, integrated rural 17,500 tickets will be very
Uganda," Dowd said. Kenya, Mali, Nigeria, Rwanda 

Bowl
development strategies," 
high.

Upon their return to Notre -and the Ugandan village of
according to Millennium 

''I'm not sure how you canDame, Dowd and Lyden said Ruhiira, in the southwest cor­
continued from page 1
Promise's overview of the ini­go wrong with a BCS game,"they were pleased with the ner of the country.

tiative. 

und.com/studentbowl begin­he said. "Certainly, we've got
groundwork they laid in "[New] villages present dif­Millennium Promise (MP) is ning at 8 p.m. Thursday. a pretty substantial ticket
Uganda, having forged rela­ferent challenges than the 
a separate non-profit organi­

Last year, 100 tickets were allotment, and we would
tionships with villagers, local ones you might have hadzation dedicated to the eradi­made available to Saint Mary's expect to use every bit of
scholars and MP representa­[before]. as the geography,
cation of extreme poverty 
seniors. that."

tives. topography, climate, govern­before 2025. It was founded 
"We're waiting on some of Last year, Notre Dame wasOne such representative is ment constraints and manyby UN Millennium Project 
our demand numbers to come initially allotted 15,000 tickets
Johnson Nkuuhe, the UN other factors will change ­director and Notre Dame in, but we want to make as for the Fiesta Bowl againstcountry coordinator oversee­and the intervention modelForum participant Jeffrey 
many available to [Saint Ohio State, but the final num­ing the MVP. will have to revisited and tai­Sachs and University trustee 
Mary's seniors] as we can," ber was higher.

Lyden said Nkuuhe assem­lored to the new region,"and philanthropist Ray 
Berlo said. "The total allotments thisbled and is heading a team of Lyden said. "Notre Dame'sChambers. 
According to Berlo, the ten­year and last year are actuallyUN development consultants, partnership in Uganda will beWith more than 313 million tative plan is to give Saint very similar," Berio said. "Itprofessors from Uganda both challenging because it'sSub-Saharan people surviving 
Mary's 100 tickets, like last depends on the bowl and the
Martyrs University, local gov­an untested project, but also on less than one dollar a day year, in which case the College number of tickets the bowlernment officials and repre­exciting for the same rea­in 2001, this region of the con­would run its own lottery. makes available."
sentatives from the Catholic sons."
tinent is said to have the 

However, that amount The fact that Notre Dame
diocese of Kampala, who will The University will utilize
"highest rate of malnourish­

remains uncertain until was able to obtain more thaninteract with local village the research and the models
ment in the world," according Wednesday, when applications the initial allotment last yearleaders during the process of tested in Ruhiira before itto the MP release. 

from non-student groups are does not necessarily mean
selecting Notre Dame's part­begins its work with a villageIn response, the University due. Berlo will then gauge the that more than 17,500 ticketsner village. in the Mpigi district, near the
created the Notre Dame 

demand from those groups. will be available this year,
Though the official town of Nkozi, home ofMillennium Development 
Berlo said he was happy Berlo said. 

announcement will not be Uganda Martyrs University. 
Initiative (NOMOI), headed by 

about the match up in New "It's less likely with themade until the end of Chambers will finance thepolitical science professor 
Orleans. LSU is located only Sugar Bowl to be able toDecember at the latest, Lyden NOMOI's initial undertaking,Father Robert Dowd. 
700 miles away from New obtain more tickets than it
said he knew the village would but to sustain and possiblyHe and Tim Lyden, a 2002 Orleans, which brings up the was with the Fiesta [Bowl]."
be composed of 5,000 to 7,000 expand the project beyond the
Notre Dame graduate and 

question of whether LSU will he said. "Each bowl is a littlepeople and would be located initial five-year timeline, Dowd 
assistant director of the 

be better represented in the bit different in that regard."
in the Mpigi district of and Lyden hope new sources
NOMOI, recently returned 

stands. According to the LSU web­Uganda, west of capital city of financing emerge. 
from a month-long visit to 

"It's hard to say. Notre Dame site, all 17,500 tickets allottedKampala.
Uganda, during which they 

has a tremendous following," to the University have beenLike the rest of Uganda, this The second story in thisidentified villages where Notre 
Berlo said. "The LSU fans, sold to season ticket holders
area -located along the series will examine the roleDame might concentrate its 
certainly based on proximity, who requested tickets. LSUbanks of Lake Victoria -has that Notre Dame faculty andefforts and collected knowl­are going to try to find their students may continue to
experienced a decrease in students will play in the
edge from their conversations way in the building." request tickets online.

HIV/AIDS prevalence rates, University's research in
with the villagers. 

Both LSU and Notre Dame "Each athletic department isaccor'ding to the country's Uganda, and its partnership
"Without imposing our­

were allotted 1 7, 500 tickets, different and has its own
AIDS commission. with the region's local institu­
selves, it is vitally important to which is a standard bowl unique philosophy on the dis­

A notable exception among tions to conduct this research. 
build relationships and a allotment that can vary tribution of tickets," BerloSub-Saharan countries,

sense of solidarity with those according to stadium capacity. said.

Uganda mounted a strong, Contact Marcela Berrios atliving in the community where Notre Dame's 15,000 non-stu­Notre Dame's distribution dent tickets are expected to be ensures that students will sold via a lottery open to all have a place in New Orleans contributing alumni, Jan. 3. Monogram Club members, "Basically our philosophy is season-ticket holders, parents to make a large percentage of of current students, and tickets available to students," University faculty, staff and Berlo said. supporters. 
Associate Athletic Director Contact Joe Piarulli at John Heisler believes the jpiarull@nd.edu 

swift response to the first out-aberrios@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 






USINESS

Tuesday, December 5, 2006 page 7 
MARKET 
RECAP 

Dow 10 877.51 -35.06

}ones ' 
'~ Same: • Composite Volun 2,543 120 2,630,046,710 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SUN MICROSYS INC (CSCO) +1.73 +0.07 3.95 NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ) +0.24 +0.10 42.107 JDS UNIPHASE CP ODSU) -3.93 -0.11 2.69 INTEL CP (INTC) +0.92 +0.25 27.43 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -0.28 -0.05 17.64 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND -0.19 -0.09 47.17 I0-YEAR NOTE -0.04 -0.02 45.19 5-YEAR NOTE -0.09 -0.04 44.46 3-MONTH BILL +0.39 +0.15 38.92 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.85 59.32 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.70 507.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.73 88.78 
Excha Rates 
YEN 
121.0000 EURO 
0.8540 POUND 
0.5770 CANADIAN$ 
1.1609 

IN BRIEF 
Wall Street rallies despite Pfizer 
NEW YORK -Wall Street surged higher Monday as investors put aside Pfizer Inc.'s decision to halt development of a key drug and focused instead on another series of takeover deals. 
Pfizer shares fell by about 12 percent after the company stopped the development of the cholesterol drug torcetrapib because of deaths and cardiovascular problems among people taking the drug during clini­cal trials. The stock was also downgraded by several Wall Street analysts on concern that Pfizer's revenue growth will now weak­en. 
The news was offset by several merger announcements that reinforced the belief that companies are optimistic about the economy and therefore are willing to take some risks. Leading them was Bank of New York Corp.'s $16.5 billion deal to buy rival Mellon Financial Corp. to create an asset management powerhouse. 
Calderon faces healthy job market 
MEXICO CITY -As a man who touts cre­ating jobs as the cure-all for Mexico's ills, President-elect Felipe Calderon couldn't be taking office at a better time. 
The economy is projected to expand by as much as 4.8 percent by year's end -its fastest growth in six years -thanks to exploding business in the construction, automobile and service industries. Iligh oil prices have poured money into government coffers, the peso has remained stable and Mexico is on track to create 1 million jobs this year. 
That makes things much easier for Calderon, who took office Friday promising to build an economy that creates enough jobs so that millions of Mexicans don't have to cross into the United States. 
"Mexico has all it needs to be a country that receives investment and generates employment for its people," Calderon said, voicing optimism in his inaugural address as president. 
The vast divide between rich and poor has fed the social tensions that have rip­pled across Mexico since Calderon won the July 2 election by less than 1 percent. 




Qualcomm expands capabilities 
Aquisition of Airgo and RF Micro enhances wireless semiconductor operations 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Qual­
comm Inc. said Monday 
it is expanding its wire­
less semiconductor 
capabilities with the 
acquisitions of a compa­
ny that develops Wi-Fi 
technology for laptops 
and hotspots, and a 
business that specializes 
in Bluetooth connections 
between mobile devices 
such as a cell phone and 
headset. 
Qualcomm is paying an 
undisclosed amount to 
acquire all of Airgo 
Networks Inc., and $39 
million to RF Micro 
Devices Inc. to buy the 
majority of that compa­
ny's Bluetooth opera­
tions. 
The acquisitions are 
expected to close by the 
end of December. 
Qualcomm estimated the 
two acquisitions will 
reduce earnings for the 
fiscal year ending next 
September by a com­
bined 4 cents per share, 
then boost profits mod­
estly the following year. 
Shares of Qualcomm 
rose $1.15, or 3.16 per­
cent, to close at $37.50, 
while RFMD's rose 21 
cents, or 2.76 percent, 
to finish at $7.81, both 
on the Nasdaq Stock 
Market. 
Wi-Fi and cellular RF Micro expects the clear whether the deal
Privately held Airgo, 
technologies are often deal will allow it to focus with RF Micro would
based in Palo Alto, 
seen as complimentary: more on its highest­have an impact in that
Calif., makes chips 
the wide coverage of cel­growth wireless ven­fight.
based on multiple ver­
lular allows users to log tures, which include cel­"The sale of these
sions of the Wi-Fi stan­
on in more places, but lular transceivers, satel­Bluetooth assets to
dard, also known as 
reception can be weak lite-based navigation Qualcomm will enable
802.11, supplying them 
indoors, where a short­components and wireless RFMD to accelerate its
to makers of portable 
er-range Wi-Fi signal is power amplifiers for expansion into new mar­
computers and wireless 
often available. local area networks. kets while streamlining
routers that connect PCs 
Qualcomm also plans Qualcomm is emb­its world-class cost
to the Internet. 
to integrate the acquired roiled in a protracted structure," RF Micro
Besides supporting 
RF Micro Bluetooth tech­trade and patent battle president and CEO Bob
that business, Qualcomm 
nology into its chipsets with rival cell phone Bruggeworth said in a
plans to integrate 
The RF Micro business chip maker Broadcom news release.
Airgo's technology into 
designs Bluetooth tech­Corp. over wireless RF Micro reaffirmed its
its own chipsets for cell 
nology for both the Internet equipment, third-quarter outlook
phones and laptops. 
mobile handset and technologies powering two weeks ago, saying it
Qualcomm specializes in 
headset markets. Qual­cell phones and still expected earnings
a cellular technology 
comm said it also plans Bluetooth. to be between 10 cents
known as CDMA for 
to integrate these into The companies have and 12 cents per share,
mobile calls, and a relat­
its own chipsets "to offer multiple lawsuits pend­and revenue to be in the
ed technology called EV­
its device-manufacturing ing in courts from range of $264 million to
DO that provides high­
customers a more com­California to Europe. It $280 million for the
speed Internet access to 
plete solution." was not immediately quarter ending Dec. 31.
phones and laptops. 



Holidays define dollar's value 
Associated Press dollar-denominated assets as U.S. rates rencies, according to the Federal 
decline and instead put their money Reserve. 

NEW YORK -While you're out bat­into areas of the world where rates are The Bush administration has shown tling the crowds at the mall or shopping rising. no signs that it plans to do anything to for hot toys this holiday season, what For most of this year, the dollar's slide stem its decline. The weak dollar helps you're buying and how much of it could has been overshadowed by bigger to lower the huge U.S. trade deficit by influence the dollar's future moves. financial-market news: The rally that making American goods cheaper and 
In addition to dictating the level of boosted major stock indexes to levels more competitive abroad and foreign retailers' profits, sales volumes this not seen since the dot-com boom and goods more expensive here. But it also Christmas could signal whether con­the retreat in oil prices from the highs could boost inflation if the price of for­sumers once again are riding to the res­seen over the summer. eign-made goods rise in this country, cue of an economy that is showing signs In recent weeks, however. the slump­something the Fed doesn't like to see. of slowing dramatically. And that may ing dollar has become harder to ignore. A combination of factors are being have great sway over what the Federal The greenback has plunged to its low­blamed for the dollar's pullback. For Reserve decides to do with interest est level in 20 months against the euro one, there has been speculation that rates in the months ahead. and is at 14-year lows against the China may shift part of its $1 trillion 
That matters for the dollar since its British pound. So far this year, the dol­foreign-currency reserves -the recent plunge largely has been sparked lar has lost nearly 7 percent of its value biggest in the world -away from the by fears that investors will cash out of against an index of major foreign cur-dollar and into other major currencies. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, December 5, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
The lndep~ Daily Newrpaper Serw"K Notre Dame nnd Sai,t Mdry's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWs EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kare Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/Nf 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

Conservative action: not an oxytnoron 
The football season and the Britney Spears/K-Fed breakup loom large as we ncar year's end and begin to assess the events of 2006, but it is also important to consid­er the progress that Notre Dame students have made toward overcoming the common view that we arc part of' an apathetic student body. Over the past 12 months, the Notre Dame com­munity saw the formation of many new student group initiatives which have been noteworthy. Some of' these initia­tives sprang from existing student clubs, like Amnesty International's fair trade campaign or the Progressive Student Alliance's "iRock for iRaq" concert to benefit Iraqi civilians. Others, like NDASK and CLAP, are the work of new organizations devoted to a single issue. Though 1 strongly dis-Forward the agree with some of thesP. groups' posi-Revolution tions, I do applaud them for heighten­ing the level of dialogue on campus and for their commit­ment to improving our university. 
In a previous column, I wrote about the necessity of enacting change on an individual basis, and these groups are doing just that. For example, on my way through the Huddle on Monday morning I saw a member of' Amnesty International speaking to another student about the AIDS crisis. The student ultimately signed a petition in support of increased action to address the epidemic. One-on-one dis­cussions are necessary for any attempt at social change to reach a critical mass of support, and individual transfor­mation is essential for enacted changes to gain social acceptance. However, it is extremely difficult for such a critical mass to be achieved without focus and organiza­tion. 
Unfortunately, no student group at Notre Dame provides the focus and organization to conservatives that the PSA and others give to progressives. Each of the student organi­zations that are widely considered conservative lack the characteristics needed to organize conservative campaigns for grassroots change on campus. Right to Life is one of Notre Dame's largest clubs, and is effective in organizing students and presenting its ideas, but its focus is limited to life issues. The Irish Rover would be another candidate, and has been successful over the past few years in present­ing a reasoned conservative viewpoint on a broad range of issues, but as a publication, student mobilization does not fall within its mandate. Finally, the College Hepublicans, while effective in mobilizing students for election activities, is only able to argue for the Hepublican position. and not a general conservatiw1 platform. What is needed at Notre Dame is a new student group which can develop dassically liberal and/or socially conservative initiatives to address the problems our campus faces and win support for those initiatives on a one-to-one basis. 

Though Notre Dame is widely believed to be a conserva­tive campus, the progressives here have done far more to push for chango in the community. As I said earlier, they should be commended for their effort and commitment. To the detriment of' the University, however, this creates stu­dent initiatives for change that are built solely on progres­sive ideas and presuppositions. A conservative student organization is necessary to argue persistently and tireless­ly for alternativn solutions which take a different approach. By strongly challenging progressive initiatives, the result­ing market of ideas will shape b11tter policies and more efll­ciPnt solutions which are better than anything one group could develop on its own. 
Similarly, conservatives on campus must do more to high­light problems which go unnoticed by existing progressive student groups and to take the lead on efforts to bring greater freedom and justice to Notrn Dame and the sur­rounding community. A conservative stud11nt organization is needed to mobilize support for more equitable treatment of' married students, a strong food bank auxiliary organiza­tion on campus and an end to the de facto ban on student businesses, among other things. Any action that a conser­vative organization would take could and should be chal­lenged by campus progressive organizations and vice versa. 
John Henry Newman, in his essay "The Idea of a University," eloquently describes a university as "the place to which a thousand schools make contributions; in which the intellect may safely range and speculate, sure to find its equal in some antagonist activity, and its judge in the tribu­nal of truth." If we are to achieve Newman's ideal, we need both a progressive and a conservative student organization to take the ideas articulated by the movements on campus and mobilize students for change, one person at a time. The Notre Dame family deserves better than the current lopsided system. 
Jonathan Klinger is a senior management consulting major and the President Emeritus of the Notre Dame College Republicans. He currently resides in Keenan Hall and enjoys Tolstoy and Matlock. He can be contacted via e­mail atjklinge@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
POLICIES 
The Observer il; the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, il; not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrougb letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include comacr information. 
Q=tiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The~ (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam :md -wcation periods. A subscription to The OhM:rva-is: $100 for one acul~mic year. $55 fur ont sem.t:liter. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dicing Hall Send address corrections w: 
Notre Dame. IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
P'(riodkal postage paid at Notte Dame P.O.Boxm 
and additional mailing Qffices. 024 Soorh Dining Hall 
Nom Dam<, lN 46556.0779 
The Obsdvct is a member ofthe Associatai Pr~ All._ repruduaian. rights. are o=vcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Eileen Duffy Bill Brink Katie Kohler Jay Fitzpatrick 
Kathleen Fran Tolan McDonnell Scene Jennifer Metz Analise Lipari Viewpoint Graphics Molly Kring Jarred Wafer 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Clain1s regarding Zahn1 Hall unfounded 
The first thing I would like to address is that the Zahm Hall Staff works hard to make sure all240 of its residents feel a part of the community. However, the intent of my article is to clarify a few of the inaccurate assumptions made by Ian MacKay ("Zahm Hall more than just a building") in the Dec. 1 edition ofThe Observer. 
MacKay states, "TACH (There Are Children Here) is no longer running so the Foodsales money stays in the dorm and finances are up." Although it is true that proceeds are no longer being sent to TACH, it is wrong to assume that profits are staying in the dorm. After the Zahm Hall staff sadly discovered that TACH would no longer be running, we believed that it was most beneficial to send the pro­ceeds to Coach Weis' charity Hannah and Friends. In fact, Zahm has several projects in the works for next semester to increase its donations to Hannah and Friends. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Imperfection is beauty; madness is genius. And it's better to be absolutely ridiculous than absolutely boring. 
Marilyn Monroe actress 

The second point I would like to correct is MacKay's need to remind us that "Zahm is a place lor students to live and not a business." Three to four years ago, Foodsales was nearly 1,000 dollars in debt to its vendors and was unable to benefit any charities, including TACH. Thanks to the tireless work made by the Foodsales managers and several others, Zahm Foodsales has nearly tripled its profits since the end of its first year and now has the ability to make significant contribu­tions. 
Better fact-fmding through direct dis­cussions with people who actually know about Zahm's policies and programs will prevent such overly broad and unfounded assertions in the future. 
Dan Tapetillo Residential Assistant ZahmHall Dec.4 

Submit aLetter 

to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
An editing mistake by The Observer in Mark Marquez's letter to the editor ("Zahm shift unwanted, unnecessary, Dec. 1) made it appear that I had once met him and was previously associat­ed with Zahm Hall. While I know some distinguished Zahmbies, I have never lived there and do not. at all resemble Fr. Tom King, C.S.C., who was Zahm Hall's rector some years ago and is considerably older than I. 
Consequently, I appreciate the opportunity to ease the concerns of Sorin residents who were confused by the error and affirm my gratitude for the privilege it has been to serve as rector of America's first Catl10lic resi­dence hall-and no other. Thank you. 
Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. 
Rector Sarin College Dec. 4 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"Happiness consists in realizinf!. it is all a great strange dream. ' 
Jack Kerouac American novelist 


THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Tuesday, December 5, 2006 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Clinic supports South Bend 
Katherine Leahy's Nov. 21 Viewpoint article {"Legal Aid Clinic exists to help the poor") expressed concern that the Notre Dame Legal Aid Clinic might be straying from its mission to serve the poor. I am happy to report that this is not the case. To the con­trary, the Legal Aid Clinic remains one of the univer­sity's most significant, yet least known, community outreach programs. This semester, thirty law stu­dents and four on-site facuity members have provid­ed legal services to over two hundred low-income clients in the South Bend area. 
The Legal Aid Clinic, located several blocks south of campus at 725 Howard Street, is the Law School's teaching clinic. It plays a similar role to a teaching hospital at a medical school, allowing law students an opportunity to engage in hands-on learning by representing clients under close faculty supervision. But the Clinic is about more than teaching lawyering skills. In the best tradition of community-based learning, it allows students to see firsthand the chal­lenges facing the poor, the mentally ill, immigrants, the elderly and other marginalized groups, and to put Catholic social teaching into action by represent­ing those persons in the legal system. 
As part of their work in the Clinic, o.ur students also present public education programs on areas of the law in which they have developed expertise. This semester, the students made presentations at the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill, the Madison Center and the Robinson Center. In addi­tion, at the request of Student Government, and as reported in The Observer, our students made a pres­entation on landlord-tenant lawto undergraduate students considering an off-campus move. 
Katherine Leahy apparently mistook this last pres­entation as an indication that the Clinic now repre­sents undergraduate students (we do not) or that it has lessened its commitment to serving the poor (we have not). The Clinic does attempt to be responsive to the needs of the university community, however, and has previously accepted invitations to speak to employees about end-of-life planning issues and to international students about housing issues. · 
With respect to Ms. Leahy's concern regarding the needs of immigrants, it is true that the Clinic's capacity for immigration work has been reduced this year by the departure of one of its facuity mem­bers. I am happy to report, however, that the Law School is in the process of hiring a new clinical fac­ulty member who will focus exclusively on immigra­tion law beginning next fall. 
Earlier today, Clinic students attended the last classroom session of the fall semester. I invited the students to share with one another what they have accomplished for their clients this term. Two stu­dents recorded lists of accomplishments on the white board for twenty minutes without pausing. Our students saved houses from foreclosure, helped immigrants obtain legal status, helped reform a nursing home, secured recoveries for defrauded consumers, arranged guardianships for mentally ill clients, helped a terminally ill young mother prepare a will and provide for care for her surviving chil­dren, recovered security deposits wrongly withheld by landlords from poor tenants, helped elderly clients prepare wills, health care powers, and other end-of-life instruments, secured benefits for dis­abled children and aduits, pushed for better com­munity living opportunities for the developmentally disabled and worked to end illegal debt collection practices. That's just the beginning of the list. Notre Dame can be proud of the service that the Clinic provides. 
Bob Jones, Jr. director Notre Dame Legal Aid Clinic Dec.4 

Band does its best 

As a band alumnus, I was a bit upset when I read the Nov. 29letter to the editor titled "Band Often Overlooked." Truthfully, the line that upset me the most was, "Ifthe band wants to be thought of as so important to school spirit then I think the band shouid understand their responsibility." Being a devout Notre Dame football and band fan, I understand the sentiment that was portrayed in the article, but I believe this statement crossed the line. 
Based on personal experience, I know that all the band members wish that they couid travel to all the away games­and especially the big games -but the money is just not there to support such big trips across the country. With over 350 members in the band, it wouid be a huge financial burden on the band· program to support this costly trip to Los Angeles since the funding is not provided by the football program, but by donors and "fundraisers" like selling CDs, T-shirts and the like. Usually, the band only has enough funds to travel to one away game. Some years, the band is lucky enough to travel to two games, but one is always a close game like Michigan, Michigan State or Purdue. When I was a student, the only away trips, other than bowl games, that we traveled to were Pittsburgh and Florida State, both of which we drove to by bus. 
The band knows their responsibility and they show their loy­alty by volunteering hours of their time every week, spending over ten hours every football saturday preparing for the game and supporting the team and fans ..Band members do not do what they do for money or credits, but for the love of music and Notre Dame football (they do not receive any scholarships and only receive one credit for their time and effort). Therefore, before you blame the administration or the band for not traveling to every big game, please keep in mind that the band does its best to travel to as many trips as finances allow them to and that the band takes its responsibility to the team and to the fans very seriously. 
Francine Barley alumna Class of2004 Nov. 29 


Zahm losing respect 
I wanted to respond to the first part in The Observer's two-part series on the changes in Zahm Hall ("Zahm struggles with cuiture shift", Nov. 29). I am a former Zahm resident, now living off campus. While I now recognize the triviality of dorm rivalries and the importance placed on which dorm one ends up in, I do believe that every dorm is unique and offers its residents a special place and atmosphere in which to live, learn, and grow. That is perhaps why I was so excited upon receiving that package from the Office of Residence Life and Housing prior to my freshman year, indicating that I wouid be joining the ranks of illustrious Zahm residents. 
Things have changed, and as the first article indicated, we only hear the stories of times past, of all the crazy things that went down and all the fun that was had. Sure, we had our own fun, but my time in Zahm has left a bitter taste in my mouth and a resentful feeling toward dorm life. I disagree with Joe Cussen's comments that "visiting" and "panel­ing" were not really that bad. I participated in those activities too, and am by no means a saint. They are behaviors that are both physically destructive to the dorm and emotionally damaging to some of the resi­dents, and I see why the University wanted to stop them. 
However, Cussen alluded to the quintessential aspect of Zahm ­respect. This one word embodies all that was Zahm, and is the most regrettable aspect of the drastic changes that have taken place in the past three and a half years. The problem is that Parrish never showed (and still does not show) the respect needed to foster good relations in the dorm. He dictates his policies without making an effort to reach out to the students. I was both a Frosh-0 commissioner and dance commis­sioner during my time at Zahm, but I made one poor decision during spring break, inappropriately calling Parrish and sharing my thoughts with him. I did not use inappropriate language nor did I personally attack Parrish; I simply shared my thoughts. Upon returning to cam­pus, I immediately apologized to Parrish, but did not hear back from him until a week later when I received my letter from ResLife. Despite my otherwise exemplary record in the dorm, helping plan and coordi­nate functions, South Bend volunteer work and being active on both the Interhall soccer and hockey teams, Parrish recommended my removal from Zahm, and so it was. That is simply a lack of respect. To this day, Parrish has still not even formally accepted my apology. 
All Zahm residents wanted from Parrish was respect. There were certain things about Zahm that certainly needed to change -I have no quarrel with that. But changes could have occurred in much better ways, and in the end the residents of the dorm are worse off because of what has happened. Instead of treating us like aduits, Parrish treats us like children. The community is gone and what is left is just another building on campus, and that is just a shame. 
Zachary Jara senior off-campus Dec.4 


A Notre Dam.e experience? 
As we were getting ready for our big show in the green room, one of my fellow performers in Asian Allure said, "Shows like Keenan Revue are considered a part of the 'Notre Dame experience' but shows put on by muiticuitural groups such as Asian Allure, Black Images and Latin Expression are never considered a 'must-do Notre Dame experience'." Why is that? 
Why is it that making jokes about Saint Mary's College students and Zahm Hall is part of the so­called "Notre Dame experience" but shows put on by minority groups on this campus are not? Is it merely because Keenan Revue has been running longer than these other shows? Ifso, Asian Allure celebrated its tenth anniversary this year-is a decade not long enough to be seeped into the Notre Dame tradition? 
Some say that many other shows on this campus such as the annual Welsh Family Dance Show and PEMCO musical also are not considered as "Notre Dame experiences" because there are just too many activities on campus for every such event to be considered. Although this is true, if many make it a point to go to LaFortune at midnight of Monday before finals to see Zahm's annual "bun run," then shouid we not make it more of a point to support the various muiticuitural events on campus? 
Many often describe Notre Dame students as being "too nice." Perhaps we are so cautious that we might disturb still water that we gently tiptoe around or even avoid difficuit questions. However, still water contained will eventually rot. We must disturb still water by asking difficult questions and engaging in active discussion to allow ideas to flow. 
An hour in a freshman year Contemporary Topics class is not enough to raise awareness and pro­voke active discussion. It has to be up to the students. We must make active discussion a part of the Notre Dame experience, whether it be at lunch at the dinning halls or a formal discussion in the classrooms. We must disturb still water and confront our own stereotypes, prejudices and igno­rance of other cuitures, ethnic groups and race. Most importantly, we must create an environment that is in agreement with our University's mission: to include all those who are not like ourselves, to allow every student to feel that they are part of the Notre Dame experience. 
Clara Park junior Pasquerilla East Nov. 29 

Keep fighting ticket policy 
While I am not a student at Notre Dame, for var­
. ious reasons, I follow the news at the University. In following the story on the updated ticket policy ("Ticket problems remain unsolved", Dec. 1) and the feedback carried in The Observer, I offer only one brief remark. As a student at The University of Texas at Austin, the idea of anyone having guaranteed tickets amazes me. It makes sense with the size of Notre Dame compared to the size of the Stadium, but, still be thankful for the acces­sibility of tickets. That being said, please do keep complaining to Notre Dame athletics. The more noise made, the more Notre Dame athletics must make some sort of response. I hope that if a change in policy must be made, a student adviso­ry board is given a voice in the issue. Good luck on a policy reversal! 
Brandon Kraft senior University ofTexas at Austin Dec. 4 
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, December 5, 2006 
MOVIE REVIEWS 
~Happy Feet' can't quite blend cute critters, issues 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Tap-dancing penguins? Who on earth would watch tap-dancing penguins for 90 minutes? 
Before "Happy Feet," such a question could be asked with a legitimate level of incredulity. After "Happy Feet," however, such a question seems unnecessary. 
Having remained the top grossing film at the box office since its release, it's safe to say that "Happy Feet" has at least found financial success with its blend of "be yourself' beliefs and environmental advo­cacy. 
The issue with the fllm lies in that blend­ing -something that, unfortunately, the film does not do as well as it should have. "Happy Feet" is essentially two films ­the first being a posi­long partners are those whose heart songs mesh perfectly with their own. What makes Mumble unique, however, is his "heart song" -Mumble cannot sing. Instead, Mumble tap dances. 
The overall message of the first half deals with Mumble's differences, as seen by his surrounding community and our ability to· accept the difrerences of those around us -not an uncommon moral in modern children's films. 
The cuteness factor of "Happy Feet" is very high, and, especially during the first half, is welcome and joyous. Mumble's parents, Memphis and Norma Jean (voiced by Hugh Jackman and Nicole Kidman, respectively), are funny and good-natured, despite being in conflict regarding their social outcast of a son. The moments during Mumble's childhood are by far the cutest and most amusing -the 
widely circulated trail­tive-reinforcement Happy Feet er featuring Seymour, message of self­
another baby penguin acceptance and the who raps his heart latter being a cau­song, can attest to that. tionary tale of human Where the film stum­errors, especially the bles is in its secondDirector: George Miller 


expenses paid by the half, when Mumble
Writers: Warren Coleman, John 
rapidly shrinking ice leaves his group of
Collee, George Miller and Judy Morris 
caps. Emperor penguins and 
Starring: Elijah Wood, Brittany 
"Happy Feet" has embarks on a journey
Murphy, Hugh Jackman, Nicole 
been solely (and with a Hobin
Kidman and Robin Williams 
rather effectively) advertised as a chil­dren's fllm about an adorable penguin named Mumble (Elijah Wood). Mumble's society of Emperor penguins (last made famous on the big screen in the wildly suc­cessful 2005 documentary "March of the Penguins") fmds their mates through their heart songs, meaning the vocalized essence of their penguin souls. Their life­Williams-led squad of 
Adelie penguins in tow -to investigate the existence of "aliens" in their home. As you might guess, these aliens are human beings -humans whose presence is given a subtly negative connotation from the film's opening. 
"Happy Feet" is darker, more complex and more socially conscious from the time that Mumble leaves his home onward. The 


DiCaprio's latest highlights conflict diamonds 
By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Editor 
For many movies these days, it isn't enough to simply be an adventure movie, a comedy or a romance. Often when movies try to tackle too many ideas and genres at once, they manage to accom­plish nothing at all. "Blood Diamond" mostly succeeds at try­ing to be everything all 
at once. "Blood Blood Diamond (Jennifer Connelly), Diamond" is an 
an American journal­awareness movie ist for Vanity Fair that desires to educate with a penchant for about the trade of crisis situations. She "conflict" diamonds in Director: Edward Zwick meets with Archer in Africa, a typically vio­Writer: Charles Leavitt Sierra Leone while lent action movie and Starring: Leonardo DiCaprio, Jennifer working to uncover finally a drama about Connelly and Djimon Hounsou the truth of the con­
for a rare pink diamond. Solomon, having been taken from his family by the Hevolutionary United Front (HUF), is forced to work in the country's diamond fields. Solomon fatefully discovers the pink diamond and hides it. But linding that dia­mond once again with Archer is the only way for Solomon to reunite himself with his family and save his son Dia from also becoming a child soldier with the HUE 
The final player is 
Maddy Bowen 

a father trying to reunite his family. Although its scope is large -and at times seems like too much for the film to handle -the final product is an interesting movie that is only mildly unsatisfying. 
Conflict, or blood, diamonds are illegally mined gems -often coming from war zones -that are used to finance insur­gency or war efforts. The issues surround­ing the trade of these diamonds set up the film's background. 
"Blood Diamond" is set in 1999 during the civil war in Sierra Leone and centers on the exploits of Danny Archer (Leonardo DiCaprio). an ex-mercenary from Zimbabwe and diamond smuggler. Early on in the film he meets with Solomon Vandy (Djimon Hounsou), a local fisher­man. Although both are native Africans, they have led very different lives -lives whose sole point in common is the search flict, or blood, dia­
monds. Bowen agrees to help Archer and Vandy seek the diamond in exchange for information on the diamond dealers. 
Ultimately, the movie is about discover­ing what is important and valuable in the life of each individual. To accomplish this, director Edward Zwick structures the movie as a journey for each of the charac­ters in which they grow from having per­sonal, selfish goals to sacrificing their desires in order to help others. 
While raising concern regarding the conflict diamonds and their effect on Africa is the overriding mission of the film, "Blood Diamonds" hauntingly highlights another world-crisis -that of child sol­diers. Solomon's son, Dia, is captured by the RUF, allowing the audience to witness the process by which children are brain­washed and forced to commit horrible film reaches emotional depths during this portion that the quickly resolved conclu­sion is not entirely able to counter. Seeing Mumble in a zombie-like state of depres­sion while captured in an aquarium is efi'ective, certainly, if the purpose of the film is to increase its audience's aware­ness of ongoing struggles in the environ­ment. For what has been publicized widely as a children's film about accepting differ­ences, it is, to say the least, surprising. 

The strange blending of live-action (all humans in the movie are filmed and digi­tally inserted into the animated whole) and computer animation is somewhat dis­tracting, especially during the ftlm's fmal moments. While in previous children's films, such as 1996's "Space Jam," com­bining two media is obviously intended and effective, in the CGI world of "Happy Feet," it just seems odd. 
Ultimately, where the film suffers is in its attempt to widen the normal thematic scope of a holiday children's movie. The message of preservation and protection is a timely one-however, for "Happy Feet," it proves to be too much for the film to handle. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 

acts of violence. One of the film's most powerful images depicts a boy soldier blindfolded and forced to shoot a man against a wall. 
Director Edward Zwick is familiar with the "action with a message" genre, having directed "Courage Under Fire," "Glory" and "The Last Samurai." While "Blood Diamond" is politically relevant and note­worthy for bringing a new topic to the movie screen, its efforts to jump between issues and genres hurt its strength as a whole. Its weakest aspect is the script, written by Charles Leavitt ("K-19"). 
Fortunately, the mediocre writing is counter-balanced by the outstanding per­formances delivered by all of the major actors. Once the audience moves past DiCaprio's forced accent, it is easy to see that his performance in "Blood Diamond" will be remembered as one of his best so far. 
Much like the topical diamonds, "Blood Diamond" certainly has its flaws. However, those flaws are far outweighed by the performances and heart, easily making the film one to see. · 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Tuesday, December 5, 2006 
page 11 
lsc~&fthnl 
Older television shows find new life this fall 
There's an old jazzy song called "Everything Old is New Again." I know this because I danced a tap solo tD it in 7th grade. It was a sweet little number for my first ever competition dance solo and the owner of the studio choreo­graphed it for me. It was the big time, trust me. The lyrics say, "Don't throw the past awayNou might need it some rainy 

Cassie Belek

day/Dreams can come true again/ 
Assistant

When ev'ry thing 
Scene Editor 

old is new again." 
One can even apply these words to the current television season. Shows, techniques and even actors from the past are suddenly revived and new once more. Unfortunately, not many people are taking notice of these resurrections. 
'The O.C.": "The O.C." has risen from the dead in its fourth season, but the rat­ings prove that no one is noticing or watching. Nov. 30 brought in only 3.6 mil­lion viewers compared to the 24.3 million watching "Grey's Anatomy." It's true that the show is playing in the most competi­tive timeslot of the week, but with the for­tunate death of Mischa Barton's Marissa Cooper, 'The O.C." is having fun again. Kaitlin, Marissa's younger sister, is the ultimate scene stealer and a perfect com­plement to mother Julie. When Summer went to Brown and stopped shaving her legs, Taylor stepped in and became the new female comic relief. Her budding romance with Ryan is all too welcome, since she has more spunk and energy than the empty-inside Marissa ever did. 
"Saturday Night Live": Believe it or not, "SNL" is becoming funny again. It's been painful to watch since the cast from the Will Ferrell years abandoned ship for smoother waters, but with the talent of fresh meat such as Groundlings veteran Kristen Wiig, the 32nd season is looking promising. 
Wiig is the new powerhouse of "SNL," though this has yet to be acknowledged by the show or by mainstream media. Her straight-faced awkwardness in this sea­son's "Car Pool" sketch with Alec Baldwin created one of the greatest and funniest sketches in recent memory. Unlike the overrated Jimmy Fallon and Horatio Sanz, Wiig never breaks, proving herself as a comedian and a professional. 
"How I Met Your Mother": This series isn't exactly old, and neither is the multi­camera format that it uses, but its core concept is -singles in Manhattan looking for friendship and love accompanied by a laugh track. No big deal. However, "Mother" takes this antiquated premise and somehow fmds a way to make it new. It's not an exact "Friends" rip-off. There are five friends instead of six, and they hang out at a bar instead of a coffee house, but "Mother" has two people that "Friends" never did-Bob Saget and Doogie Howser. 
Yes, Saget is nothing more than the nar­rator, but it's· refreshing to hear him nar­rate this series instead of "America's Funniest Home Videos." Neil Patrick Harris' Barney is Chandler and Joey 

Photo courtesy of cbs.com The cast of "How I Met Your Mother" poses for a publicity still. The show is one among several this season to see a resurgence in quality and a decline in viewers. 
molded into one super sarcastic ladies' man. The situations are fresh, and fortu­nately the series is too young to "jump the shark" by desperately making someone pregnant. 
Sometimes revisiting the old welcomes all kinds of new. Even "The View" is renewing itself with loud-mouthed, give­away-happy Rosie O'Donnell. The electric debates between liberal Rosie and conser­vative Elizabeth are enough to keep any­one tuned in, even without drunken appearances by Danny DeVito. 
However, with a media transfixed by the happenings of "Grey's," a groundbreaking youth-oriented series is in danger of get­ting cancelled. With the full-season pick­ups of "Studio 60" and "30 Rock," the show that inspired them both is being written off as past its prime. And with the (well-deserved) media attention of single­camera comedies, one actually good multi-camera sitcom isn't getting nearly enough coverage. 
The old may be new again, but whether or not the audience will notice remains to be seen. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
SHOW REVIEW 


'A Piece of My Heart' inspects Vietnam war 
By MARTY SCHROEDER 
Asisranr Scene Editor 
"A Piece of My Heart," written by Shirley Lauro and directed by London Vale, tells the story of six women involved in the Vietnam War and how it profoundly affected their lives. The St. Edward's Hall Players pre­sented the play in the Vale's part. Most of the male parts were simplistic, but Joe Vittoria handled all of them well. 
The group of actors involved was excellent, but Jennifer Melillo and Jennifer Betancourt were the strongest of an already talented cast. Their por­trayals of Sissy and Leeann, respectively, were emotionally rich and provided the backbone of the play. Also contributing noteworthy per­
Washington Hall Lab formances were Megan
The flexible nature
Theatre this past weekend. O'Donoghue and Molly Kealy,
ofthe play was
Everything from retire­who were both very good as ment issues to Agent suited well to the Red Cross nurses. Orange Disease is dealt Stephanie Elise Newsome
versatile space of
with and confronted. The put in perhaps the most
the Lab Theatre 
flexible nature of the play 
was suited well to the ver­satile space of the Lab Theatre, and the show was well per­formed, with a simple but effective light­ing design. 
Perhaps the strongest aspect of this play was the way the actors were able to move from their primary characters to other, more peripheral characters as needed. Instead of casting more people, Vale chose to have her primary actors. play these smaller parts. 
When a nameless nurse was needed, an actor would fill in and then switch back to her primary character as anoth­er actor would then fill in a nameless yet needed role. The actors transitioned with skill and were able to maintain a level of characterization that allowed for an easy suspension of disbelief. 
Also, the decision to cast one male for all of the male parts was a fine move on enthusiastic performance as 
Army intelligence member 

Steele. All of the actors per­formed very well and each had their own strengths, creating a cohesive whole and producing a very moving and affecting performance. 
On the technical side, the lighting design by Jon McCallie and Sarah Mikrut was simple but very effective. Washes of orange and red were used 

Photo courtesy of London Vale From left, Joe Vittoria, Jennifer Betancourt and Jennifer Melillo star in "A Piece of My Heart." The play focuses on six different women during the Vietnam war. 
at appropriate times, while Lauro skillfully Heart" was an excellent the general lighting scheme show, indicating that the
takes a stab at

served the production well. future of the St. Edward's 
Maura Galbraith, Ashley examining what Hall Players is in good Ceniceros and London Vale effect the Vietnam hands. For student theatre, designed the sound, and the it was a fine production.
War had on the 

songs and sound effects The topics explored in the
female members of

chosen were appropriate play are valid issues that and established a sense of the armed forces. apply to the present day. time and space very well. Films and theatre related to The stage manager, Ashley Ceniceros, war usually explore the male aspect of kept the show running with ease, and the situation, but Lauro skillfully takes a 
Vale was able to elicit solid performanc­es from her cast. Overall "A Piece of My 
stab at examining what effect the Vietnam War had on the female mem­bers of the armed forces. 
In our current climate of war, it is good to remember the soldiers fighting ­however, what is that worth if the women are forgotten? What "A Piece of My Heart" leaves with its audience is the notion that many have made sacrifices in fighting for our country, but not all of them are on the front lines with a rifle. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, December 5, 2006 
NBA 

Wizards end Mavs' 12-game winning streak 
Monday night. points in just over three min­
Arenas scores 38 as 

Up 17-14 in the first quarter, utes of action. 
Washington holds the Bulls went on a 13-point By the fourth quarter Spurs run. coach Gregg Popovich and on to beat Dallas They w.ere ahead 53-35 at Warriors coach Don Nelson had 
halftime and led by as many as pulled most of their starters. Associated Press 30 in the third quarter. That gave Beno Udrih more After scoring a career-high 31 time on the floor as a backup to 
WASHINGTON -Gilbert on Friday against New Orleans Parker. Arenas had 38 points and eight and 24 the following night He played 24 minutes and assists as the Wizards ended against Washington, Nocioni demonstrated confidence from the Dallas Mavericks' 12-game was 8-of-1 0 from the field and behind the arc, sinking two 3­winning streak with a 106-97 grabbed seven rebounds on pointers in a row about five victory on Monday night. Monday. minutes into the fourth. He had 
All five of Washington's Paul Pierce scored a season­three 3-pointers in the game. starters scored in double fig­low eight points for Boston, ures in the first three quarters. which has lost three straight Knicks 98, Grizzlies 90 Only once had the team accom­and five of six. Eighth in the Eddy Curry scored 26 points plished that in a full game this NBA averaging 26.9 points and the Knicks beat the season. entering the game, Pierce shot Memphis Grizzlies on Monday 
Antawn Jamison had 20 4-of-13 after bruising his right night for just their second home points and 12 rebounds for elbow in Friday's 106-102 loss victory of the season. Washington. Caron Butler to Toronto. David Lee added a season­added 14 points, nine rebounds Ryan Gomes scored 17 of his high 20 points, teaming with and seven assists for the 19 points in the first half and Curry to wear out the Grizzlies' Wizards, who built leads of 20 finished with seven rebounds. frontcourt. Curry, who had his points in the first half and 31 in With second-leading scorer career-best seventh straight the third quarter. Wally Szczerbiak out with a game with 20 or more points, 
Dirk Nowitzki, who led Dallas sprained left ankle, Delonte grabbed 15 rebounds before with 27 points, capped a 19-6 West started and scored four fouling out, and the Knicks shot run with a 3-pointer that pulled points for the Celtics. aseason-best 56.3 percent from the Mavericks to within 102-95 the field. with 1:07 remaining. Devin Spurs 129, Warriors 89 Quentin Hichardson also had Harris scored nine points dur­Brent Barry scored 18 points 20 points and Stephon Marbury ing the spree and finished with as the Spurs routed the Golden finished with 16 points and six 
14. Jerry Stackhouse and State Warriors on Monday. assists. Deveau George also scored 14 Beno Udrih scored a season­The Knicks snapped a four­points for Dallas. high 16 points for San Antonio, game losing streak at Madison 
The Wizards went on a 17-4 whose bench accounted for 75 Square Garden, where they are run to open the third quarter, points. 2-7. Coach Isiah Thomas said capped by Jarvis Hayes' 3-Tim Duncan had 15 points his team's home woes were pointer for a 76-45 lead with and eight rebounds, and mental, with players worried 
6:24 remaining in the period. Michael Finley and Tony Parker too much about boos from the 
A sequence earlier in the each added 14 points. home fans. period epitomized the game. The Spurs outrebounded the But the Knicks need to win at Arenas banked home a 3-point­Warriors 51-34. home now, or their season will er off the glass that gave Anthony Roberson, who had get away from them. Monday's Washington a 69-4!? lead and sprained his left thumb game was the second in a Nowitzki's ensuing jumper at Saturday against the Milwaukee stretch where New York plays a the other end drew nothing but Bucks, scored 21 for Golden season-high six straight ­glass. State. He was followed by Mike mostly against weak competi­
The victory was the Wizards' Dunleavy and Monta Ellis, with tion ~ and 10 of 11 at Madison first in their last seven meetings 12 and 11, respectively. Square Garden. with the Mavericks, whose five­After leading by as much as Another small crowd, game road winning streak also 20 in the first, the Spurs took a announced at 15,233, had little ended. The last time 16-point cushion into the sec­to boo about in a game the Washington defeated Dallas was ond period. Knicks never trailed. With Curry and Lee getting game losing streak in Nov. 5, 2003, when Arenas Manu Ginobili, who missed Hakim Warrick scored 19 numerous easy chances right Sacramento with a 92-89 victo­posted the first of his three the last four games with a lower points for the Grizzlies, who lost under the basket, the Knicks ry over the Kings on Monday career triple-doubles. back contusion, came in off the their third straight. shot 12-of-17 (71 percent) in night. 
Butler's dunk on the run gave bench with under three minutes Memphis trailed by double the second quarter. Dwight Howard had 18 points Washington a 15-point lead left in the first. He quickly digits for much of the second The lead grew to 17 after and 16 rebounds for the Magic, midway through the second proved that he's feeling much half before closing within five in Marbury scored five straight who won for the seventh time in quarter. DeShawn Stevenson's better. the closing minutes. The Knicks points, but Memphis clawed eight games. It was the Eastern jumper extended the Wizards' Within 40 seconds he had two followed with a lucky break back and cut it to 55-46 at half­Conference leaders' fifth stop lead to 57-37 with 2:18 remain­assists to Francisco Elson, then when Richardson hit a turn­time after Miller and Chucky on a six-game road trip, its ing in the half. another to Udrih with a minute around, fallaway shot off the Atkins knocked down late 3-longest of the season. 
Jamison and Arenas shot a to go in the first. wrong foot as the shot clock pointers. Grant Hill's jumper with 2:29 combined 9-of-12 in the first Golden State never had the expired. New York made its first three to play put Orlando up 89-83 ­quarter and the Wizards, who lead. The Spurs took a 14 point The Knicks finally got off to a shots in the third quarter, push­the biggest lead for either team shot 71 percent in the period, advantage into the second half. good start at home, hitting eight ing the lead back to 15, and in the fourth quarter. But Brad took a 31-23 lead. · The Warriors couldn't catch of their first 11 shots to open a wasn't threatened again until Miller hit two free throws and 
San Antonio in the third as the 19-9 lead on Lee's jumper with midway through the final peri­Mike Bibby made a jumper with Bulls 100, Celtics 82 Spurs steadily extended their 4:45 left in the first quarter. od. 1:28 left. 
Andres Nocioni scored 20 margin. The Spurs took a 93-61 New York led by 12 late in the After the Kings' defense points, and the Bulls won their lead into the final period. Bruce period before Lawrence Roberts Magic 92, Kings 89 stopped Orlando twice, Miller fifth straight, pulling away early Bowen and Robert Horry each and Warrick converted three­Jameer Nelson hit a 3-pointer tied it with an awkward layup on their way to a 100-82 victory had a 3-pointer, and Ginobili point plays in the final 35 sec­with 1. 7 seconds left, and the over Tony Hattie's outstretched over the Boston Celtics on added two assists and four onds. to cut the lead to 25-19. Orlando Magic snapped an 11-arms with 25 seconds left. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining HalL Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: Spiral notebook, teal cover with angels with trumpets on the cover. Call Tom 631-9806. 
FOUND: winter hat near Engineering Bldg. Call Tom 631­9806 to identify. 


WANTED 
Seeking babysitter for 2 & 4 yr old girls, approx 10 hrs/wk. Prefer after­noons. Contact sbaer@nd.edu 

FOUND Need diving coach part time 2-3 afternoons/wk. Girls & boys learns. Call Washington High School Athletic Dept. 574-283­7206. 
BABYSITTER NEEDED. Local lam­ily is seeking babysitter for 1-1/2 year-old boy. Flexible hours, Tues/Thurs. preferred. Must have references. 574-271-0747. 
FoR SALE 
1991 Audi Model80. 4-dr. excellent condition. $2,000. Call561-596-0194. 

FoR RENT 
BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam­pus homes & weekend rentals. Bluegoldrentals.com 
HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6 
Bedrooms www.NDstudentrentals.com 
NO BASEMENT OR ATTIC BED­ROOMS!! Houses available now & next semester & 07-08. Students/faculty/staff. $350/bdrm. Walk to ND. Clean,safe areas. Call 574-273-4889. 

ATTN: GRAD STUDENTS & FAC­ULTY: Elegant Park Avenue Victorian, 3 finished levels, 4 bdrms, all hardwood floors, marble fireplace, ceramic tiled bath, French doors to patio, bay windows in din­ing roo~. Call Marcie 574-247­9330. 
3-6 Bedroom homes, walking dis-lance, washer, dryer. MMM Rentals. Contact Gary 574-993-2208. 
BEST HOUSES & CHEAPEST RENT offered by ND GRADs. Available 07-08 or NOW. Call312-545-5123. 
One bdrm apt. in quiet historic area available Spring semester. Laundry & security. $575/mo. Call574-283-0325. 
3 bdrm, 2 baths, newly renovated home close to ND/SMC. Avail. 07­08, possibly Spring 06. Call574-289-7791. 
Leasing 2nd semester 2007. 

Also leasing 2007-08. Stadium Club Condominiums. 
Call Susan 574-243-7530 or email: stadiumclubcondos@ sbcglobal.net 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments!pregnant.shtml or see our bi­weekly ad in The Observer. 
Now you're a man... 
Merry Christmas, everyone. 








OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, December 5, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 13 

Inside College Hockey Power Rankings 
team record 
1 Minnesota 13-1-3 
2 New Hampshire 11-2·1 
3 Maine 9·3·1 
4 NOTRE DAME 12·3·1 
5 Boston College 8·4·1 
6 Miami (Ohio) 13·5·0 
7 Michigan 12·5·0 
8 Colorado College 10"5•1 
9 St. Cloud Slate 8•3-3 
10 Boston University 5·3·5 
11 North Dakota 7-6-1 
12 ComeII 8·3·1 
13 Denver 9-6·1 .~~} 
14 Massachusetts 7-3-2 
15 Vermont 9·5-1 
.;:·:::::.::?·""
16 Clarkson 10·5·1 11 18 Dartmouth 
19 
20 Lake 
NCAA Hockey USCHO Top 20 
team record points 

1 Minnesota 13-1-3 796 2 New Hampshire 11-2·1 753 3 Maine 9-3-1 685 4 Miami (Ohio) .13-5·0 678 5 NOTRE DAME 12-3-1 647 6 Boston College 8-4-1 582 7 Michigan 12-5·0 530 8 St. Cloud State 8-3-3 522 9 Colorado College 10-5-1 427 10 North Dakota 7-6·1 383 11 Boston University 5-3-5 369 12 Comell 8-3-1 359 13 Denver 9-6·1 293 14 Vermont 9-5·1 255 15 Michigan State 7-7-1 238 16 Massachusetts 7-3·2 183 17 Clarkson 10-5-1 173 18 Dartmouth 5-3-2 147 19 Alaska 6-4-4 108 20 Lake Superior 10·5·1 75 
previous 
1 
2 
1 
4 
5 
7 
6 
10 
15 
11 
9 
13 8 18 12 19 NR 
11 
14 NR 
around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Oklahoma St. at Syracuse 7 p.m., ESPN 
Associated Press 
STANFORD, Calif. ­Stanford opened the foot­ball season full of optimism based on a renovated sta­dium, an offense that returned nearly intact and progress that was made in Walt Harris' first year as head coach. 
That quickly ended when the stadium was often half­empty, the skill players went down with injuries and the Cardinal finished with their worst record in more than four decades. 
All of that played into the decision Monday to fire Harris after his second sea­son and begin the search for a new coach who can win under the difficult cir­cumstances at Stanford. 

"This has been a tough year," athletic director Bob Bowlsby said. "In some measure this decision was not made as a result of being 1-11 as much as it was a result of not seeing the progress in some of the critical areas we would have hoped for after two years." 
Harris finished his two­year stint with a 6-17 record after losing 26-17 in the Big Game to California on Saturday. He had the shortest tenure of any Stanford coach since Rod Dowhower left after one season in 1979 with a 5-5­1 record. 
IN BRIEF 
Mariners strengthen outfield, sign Guillen to one-year deal 
LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. -Jose Guillen and lchiro Suzuki in the same outfield -Seattle manager Mike Hargrove has never had two arms so strong side-by-side. 
The Mariners and Guillen agreed on a one-year, $5.5 million contract Monday with a $9 million mutual option for 2008, giving Seattle a starting right fielder and a danger­ous bat in the middle of the order. 
The deal was the first formal sign­ing of the four-day baseball winter meetings that began Monday. 
Guillen missed much of the 2006 season following reconstructive sur­gery on his right elbow. The Mariners hope his addition is only a start because they want to upgrade their starting rotation. 
''I'm just looking forward to this opportunity to try to get back on board and have the success that I've had before," Guillen said. 
The Cardinal finished with the most losses in school history and the worst record since an 0-10 mark in 1960. 
Stanford has struggled mightily since Tyrone Willingham left for Notre Dame following the 2001 season. They have not had a winning season in five years under Buddy Teevens and Harris, going just 16-40. 
Bowlsby admitted it might not be "fair" to fire Harris after only two sea­sons but that he had to do what was best for the school. 
"I think the most critical assessment I had to make was does investing another year present the likely pos­sibility of making substan­tial improvement," he said. "If I couldn't answer that affirmatively, which I ulti­mately didn't, I felt it was better to make the change now than wait more time." 
Harris was a disciplinari­an who clashed with some players, including line­backer Michael Okwo, who briefly quit the team in November. Players com­plained of a communica­tion gap with the coaching staff. 
"It was maybe just a bad fit," receiver Mark Bradford said. "Maybe we didn't respond to the way that was his style of coach­ing." 

Staten Island speedway plans halt as New York waits for track 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.-International Speedway Corp. scrapped plans Monday to build a track on Staten Island, stalling NASCAR's dream to bring a race to the New York area. 
"While we are disappointed that we could not complete the speedway development on Staten Island, our enthusiasm for the metropolitan New York market is in no way dampened," ISC president Lesa France Kennedy said. "We continue to view the region as a prime loca­tion for a major motorsports facili­ty. " 
France Kennedy heads ISC, the publicly traded sister company of NASCAR -which was founded by her grandfather and currently chaired by her brother, Brian France. 
Both companies badly want to expand NASCAR into the New York metropolitan area. 
NCAA appoints broker to handle Final Four ticket re-sales 
INDIANAPOLIS -Final Four ticket­holders will now have the option of reselling tickets to an officially sanc­tioned NCAA broker. 
The governing body announced Monday that RazorGator Experiences will be the official ticket, hospitality and hotel package provider. 
Besides creating travel packages, fans can now negotiate with the company to resell unused tickets. Previously, fans whose team lost in the national semifi­nals resorted primarily to ticket scalp­ing to sell unwanted seats. 
"RazorGator Experiences has the expertise and the resources to help the NCAA significantly reduce activities that taint the Men's Final Four, such as the unauthorized sale of NCAA event tick­ets, which not only limit revenue for student-athlete programs, but also put our fan base at risk," NCAA senior vice president Greg Shaheen said in a writ­ten statement. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, December 5, 2006 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Schiano says he vvill re111ain with Rutgers 
Associated Press 
PISCATAWAY, N.J. -After weeks of speculation about his future, Rutgers coach Greg Schiano decided to spend at least the foreseeable part of it right where he is. 
In response to rumors he was poised to take over the troubled University of Miami program, Schiano said Monday he had told Hurricanes athletic director Paul Dee to take his name off a list of candidates. 
"Rutgers is where I am going to be and Rutgers is where I want to be. I am not a candidate for that job and I won't be a candidate for that job," Schiano said Monday. 
Schiano, a New Jersey native who was Miami's defensive coordinator in 1999 and 2000, said he told Dee on Monday not to consider him for the job. 
Miami coach Larry Coker was fired after going 6-6 in the regular season. 
Schiano has orchestrated No. 16 Rutgers' rise from one of the nation's lowliest pro­grams in the past six seasons, and led the team to its first bowl appearance in 27 years in 2005. 
At 10-2 (5.-2 Big East) this season after winning their first nine games, the Scarlet Knights are headed to a Texas Bowl matchup against Kansas State. Rutgers nar­rowly missed the Bowl Championship Series and a likely Orange Bowl appear­ance by losing Saturday night in triple overtime at West Virginia. 
As Rutgers continued to win this season and Coker's posi­tion became more tenuous, speculation grew that Schiano was one of the top candidates, perhaps even No. 1, for the Hurricanes job. 
Schiano never wavered from the message that he was happy at Rutgers and looking forward to the program's continued growth -yet he never explicitly said he would 

AFTERBURNERS 
stay at the school. 
That only fueled more rumors, which persisted through the West Virginia game and into Monday. 
"People kept asking if it was a distraction for the players during the season, but I knew once Saturday came that we needed to address it and that's exactly what happened," Schiano said. 
Schiano said Monday he had not signed a new con­tract with Rutgers, but said his agent is in discussions with Rutgers officials. He made $191,000 last year before athletic director Robert Mulcahy gave him a seven-year extension that 
maxes  out at $350,000 by  
2012.  
The  extension  raised  

Schiano's annual income from private sources from $325,000 to $625,000. With incentives, his total compen­sation is in the $1 million range. Coker, meanwhile, had three seasons left on a con­tract that paid him about $2 million annually. 
"He's maintained all along that this is where he wanted to be and this is where he's going to be. He's a man of principle and there's really no more to say about it," Mulcahy said. 
Schiano had previously hinted that money issues were secondary to Rutgers' committing to make the upgrades necessary to field a top-1 0 caliber team. 
At the top of his current wish list is an expansion of 41,500-seat Rutgers Stadium. Several home games were sellouts this season, including the final two games in which temporary bleachers added 2,000 seats to the south end zone. Season-ticket sales have already increased by 5,000 for next season, Schiano said Monday. 
He added that school offi­cials "are all on the same page with what we want to build here." 




LAURIE HUNT !The Observer Irish forward Garrett Regan blows past Alaska defenseman Nate Fornataro along the boards during Saturday's 3-1 Notre Dame win. 
Tuesday, December 5, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Gray finishes 133rd in NCAA Cha111pionship 





Lunch ancl Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Thursday, December 7 
12:00 p.m. -1:30 p.m. 

316.Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council invites gay, lesb•an. and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends. and supporters to an infurrnallunch at the Co-Mo. Everyone IS welcome and confidentlahty IS assured. lunch will be served 
Tuesday, December 5 and 


Wednesday, December 6 

10:00 a.m. 
to 
4:00p.m. 310 Flanner Hall 

www. undpress.nd.edu 


~0 

2006 Holiday Bool< Sale 


40o/o 
off 

her mental game a little bit," Bauters said. "While she did­n ~t really slow down at this point, she usually starts gain­ing ground throughout the race and was not able to." 
Nine of Gray's teammates made the trip to show their support, helping Gray realize the tremendous accomplish­ment of even making it to the national level. 
"They helped me realized [and] remember that I was running with the best run­ners in the entire country ­it was an honor," Gray said. 
Gray's accomplishments were indeed record-breaking for the Belles this season. The junior was the leading runner for the Belles in all nine 
This article was supposed to run three weeks ago but did not due to an editing error. 
By BECKI DORNER Sporrs Writer 
Megan Gray ended her record-breaking season Nov. 18 at the NCAA Division III National Championships, fin­ishing 133rd overall with a time of 25:14 in the 6K event at the Voice of America Park Wilmington College. 
Middlebury College took the team championship with 144 points against a field of 32 teams. Willamette junior 
Sarah Zerzan finished first in the field of 279 runners with a 
time of 22:31. ''I'm very proud of races she ran in "The times were her and all her during the 2006 
slow across the accomplishments season. It was a 
board due to the season of firsts
this season. I think 
mud,': Belles for Saint Mary's coach Jackie it gave her a good and Gray as she Bauters said. idea ofwhat to became the first The rainy condi­Belle runner to

look for next year,
tions at the event earn first-team slowed down Saint and another trip to all-MIAA honors Mary's only repre­the NCAA after placing sixth 
sentative in the Championships." in the confer-
event. But Gray ence's champi-
CaRE COU~Cil 

remained opti­onship race three
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 

mistic despite the Jackie Bauters wee·ks ago.
STUDENTS rain-affected Belles coach In addition, she 
time. 
"It was a tough day to run, but it was an honor to be able to run in the National meet and while I felt I could have run a better race, I was lucky to have teammates, coaches, friends and family there to support me," Gray said. 
Despite the conditions, Bauters was still impressed with the finish of her only runner in the race. 
"[Gray] looked good when I saw her right before the [first] mile, as though she was progressing well and in a good position," Bauters said. 
But due in part to the course conditions, Gray fell just after the one mile mark. 
"I think it kind of knocked 
became the first 

Saint Mary's run­ner to win an overall individ­ual title when she crossed the finish line first with a time of 18:42 at the Manchester InvitationaL Finally, she became the first Belle to qualify for nationals after her 1Oth place finish at the Great Lake Regional Championships, where she ran the 6K course in 22:52. 
''I'm very proud of her and all her accomplishments this season. I think it gave her a good idea of what to look for next year, and another trip to the NCAA Championships" said Bauters. 
Contact Becki Domer at rdomer1 @nd.edu 
c 



page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, December 5, 2006 
CLUB SPORTS 



Irish skaters perform despite technical glitch 
Special to The Observer 
"Ladies, will you please stop skating," blared over the loud speakers in Ann Arbor, Mich. this weekend as the University of Notre Dame figure skating team attempted to finish their program at the Dr. Richard Porter Skating Competition. 

The determined women were resilient. and were forced to fin­ish out a three minute synchro­nized program without music due to a technical glitch as they per­formed in front of a large crowd Sunday morning. 
After several setbacks this sea­son, the Notre Dame skating team had its heart set on a flaw­less performance this past Sunday to boost morale and put its name back among the best of the synchronized skating world. But with an entire minute skipped in the music, that flaw­less performance seemed beyond reach. 
However, the young women stood with smiles on their faces in front of a bewildered crowd, wondering what their fate would be in the minutes that stood ahead. Out of breath and tired after going through the entire program at full speed, the women wondered if they would again have to attempt the program right away. 
After a silent direction from their coach, Irish alumna and for­mer team member Tracey Mulherin, the team skated to one end of the ice to pick up where the technical difficulty had thrown them off. Without a word, the team connected back togeth­er, kept smiles on their faces, and finished off the haunted themed musical program. 
They stepped off the ice, satis­fied with their performance, but worried that the technical glitch would set the team back in the ordinals. Fourteen colleges were represented this weekend at the competition, and Notre Dame wanted to be ranked as one of the best. With encouraging words from Mulherin and fans, the team proceeded to wait among the other colleges for the results. 
When the ordinals were placed on the wall, Notre Dame came out on top. Five of the seven judges had placed them first, and the other two had put them at a close second place. 
Even with technical difficulties and setbacks, the Irish skating team was determined to prove themselves this season. After a few years of disappointing losses and just missed trips to Nationals, the Notre Dame synchronized skating team is back with a vengeance, and is beginning to prove themselves to their fierce competitors. 
Next semester the club will compete in three more competi­tions, including the Midwesterns. The club is determined to contin­ue its successful ways. 
Men's volleyball 
Notre Dame traveled to Michigan State's annual Hardwood Classic this weekend. Play opened early Saturday for the Irish as they faced a pool of three other teams from across the Midwest. 
In the first match of the day, the Irish were paired against Iowa. Without middle blocker Joe O'Connell, the team burst from the gates, taking the first game quickly, 25-12. As O'Connell came into the gym, it seemed the Hawkeyes did too, giving the Irish a challenge in their second game, 25-21 victory. 
Following their opening win, the Irish first faced Kentucky. Notre Dame proved to be too much for the Wildcats as they won the match in consecutive games, 25-20, 25-17, behind the aggressive serving of Trevor Carter. The final match of pool play proved to be the match of the day as the Irish squared off against Pittsburgh. 
Despite the outstanding block­ing by James Foresman, Notre Dame ended up on the losing end of the 23-25 first game nail biter. The Irish came out with a mis­sion in the second, winning 25-12 to force the match into a decisive third game. Unfortunately, the Irish were unable to continue with the momentum, losing another close game, 12-15. 
To keep their first-place goal alive, the Irish were forced into a must-win match versus Northwestern. 
The clipboard was handed to O'Connell. who was looking to become 2-0 as coach, as the Irish took the court. Freshmen Arthur Kinsey and Ned Nejndly lifted the team through a slow start and to a first game 25-23 victory. 
After the dose initial game, the Irish were intent on making the second a little more comfortable. Behind Ted Grossestreur and the jump serves of Tim Goldsmith, the Irish finished the match and the day with a 25-13 win. 
Notre Dame moved from a field of 32 to a single-elimination bracket of 16 in the second day. They were paired against confer­ence foe Wisconsin-Milwaukee in the initial round. Both teams seemed sluggish in the early morning match, but the Irish pre­vailed 27-25, 25-11 to advance to the quarterfinals. 
The Irish found themselves playing a strong Ohio Northern squad for the opportunity to move on. The matching proved to be a defensive battle, starting with the first game. 
The Irish fought hard, but a few breaks fell the way of Ohio Northern, leading to a 22-25 loss. Notre Dame rallied together in the second, led by star libero John Tibbie, to take the second 25-22. Finding themselves in another three-game match, the Irish refused to fall. The third game was controlled in its entire-. ty Notre Dame, who paved their 

lJa Alianza presents... 
A Latin dance party with free food and fun! 
"\X!ednesday, December 6th Legends 9pm-12am 
Free T-shirts to first 200 students 

way to the semis through a 15-9 win. 
With a spot in the champi­onship for grabs, the Irish hit the court against the Nittany Lions of Penn State. Strong outside hitting by senior Drew Williams and jun­ior Dan Zibton carried the play of the Irish, but it wasn't cmough as the Nittany Lions won, 25-21, 25­
19. With their second consecutive third-place finish, the Irish arn off to one of their best starts in tnam history. 


Women's ice hockey 
Notre Dame traveled to St. Louis for three non-league games last weekend. Saturday night the team faced oiT against the St. Louis Surge. Notre Dame started out slow falling behind 1-0 in the first period. Once they adjustnd to the !rigid tmnpnrature of the out­door rink, the Irish steppnd up their level of' play and tied the score on a two on one pass from junior Kant Bronnan to sopho­monJ Margarnt Knoc1dler. Senior Annie Tilton added another goal on a breakaway to give the Irish a 2-1 lead. Tlw Surge ti()(l the game on a power play with only minutes left in the third period, but KrioPdhw scored again on an assist from f'reshm an Emily Chappell with 45 seconds left !,riV­ing the Irish a 3-2 victory. 
Just aflnr bnating the Surge the Irish were bcu:k on the ice to take on the St. Louis Herricanes. Notre Damll's goalie Mindy Stack was strong in net but the llerricanes scored on a first peri­od power play making it 1-0. The Irish peppered the net with shots but could not put one in. With a minute to play Notre Dame pulled their goalie and the advantage created several scor­ing opportunities, but the linal score remainHd 1-0 Herricanes. 
Sunday morning the Irish had a chance to avenge the previous night's loss in a rematch with the Herricanes. The Herricanes had some scoring chances early in the game but were stopped by Stack. Notre Dame then capitalized on a golden opportunity when Tilton scored on a 5-on-3 power play. Knoedler added her fourth goal of the weekend on the same power play and senior Julia LaPointe capped off the first peri­od scoring to give the Irish a 3-0 lead after one. Stack made some great saves and held the I Ierricanes scoreless while Tilton scored her second goal of the game. The 4-0 victory added to Notre Dame's winning record. 


Equestrian 
Brittany Gragg earned high point honors at Sunday's IIISA show . at Taylor University. Gragg claimed first place in both intermedi­atH flat and novice fences. Krista Jones placed second in novice fences and Hayden Piscal third in intermediate nat. Kelsey Ostberg garnered first place in open fenees, with Claire Freeman and Andrea Oliverio sharing fourth place. 
Piscal took third place in intermediate fnnces. Freeman and Katie Baron tied for first in open flat with Lauren Dosrosiers and Oliverio tying for second place, and Ostbnrg firth in an evnnt dominatnd by the Irish. Krista Jones took first in novice l"lat. with Alisha Wilkinson and Jennifer Gilardi tying for second. Courtney Klosterman and Courtney Hofman were third and fourth respectively in walk-trot-canter, and Kathryn Ozimek and Catherine Gerner gave the Irish a first and sec­ond place finish in walk-trot. 
In Saturday's competition, Wilkinson and Gilardi shared first place in novice nat with Jones fourth. Piscal took a first in intermediate nat with Gragg in fourth, and Heather LaDue's second plaee paced the novice fences with Gilardi in sixth. Ostberg and Desrosiers were second and third place in open fences, and Piscal fifrth in intermedi­ate fPnces. Freeman led thP Irish with a second place in open flat, followed by Ostberg and Desrosiers in fourth. and Baron and Oliverio tying as well for sixth place. Catherine Gerner and Ozimek finished second and fourth place in walk-trot, while Hofman and Klosterman were third and fourth in walk-trot-canter. 


$69.00pfus t~ 

S.)f TV(J{CD./l tY .J.)f!NV.)f(J{'Y13_, 2007 

~~ CffLL 574-631-200 CR!J?SP,(J{'VE, 'YOV(J{(J{OO 
Tuesday, December 5, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

Falls 
continued from page 20 
He's 39 percent from 3-point range early this season (18-of­
50) and is 83 percent from the free-throw line (24-of-29). But his shots per game (8. 7) are a distant second to guard Russell Carter (12.8) and below last year's total (10.7) when he was a second option to Chris Quinn. 
Instead of assuming a role as the team's primary scorer, Falls is fitting into the up­
tempo motion­style offense, tak­ing his shots as they come but not forcing looks that aren't there. 
"As I've said many times, if you really know the game, he's certainly more than just a shoot­er," Brey said. 
"He really understands how to play the game ... and as I've mentioned Monday night, he's not been in my office asking why he's not getting more 
shots." but his understanding of spac­
And the senior's willingness ing and knowing where his to place confidence in his teammates are positioned has younger, more inexperienced allowed him to be more cre­teammates has paid dividends ative this season. thus far -the His confident 
Irish are outscor­"He's got to be on demeanor and role 
ing opponents by as team leader also
the floor a lot

22 points per makes him an game. because I have to indispensable on­Brey has praised be able to talk court extension for Falls' "high bas­Brey, who is known
through him. " 

ketball IQ" numer­for establishing ous times this sea­strong relationships son. Falls has jus­Mike Brey with his senior tified his coach's Irish coach leaders. 
comments by rou­tinely being in the 
"When you sit down and you start talking about stuff, you watch his eyes and he asks great questions." 
Mike Brey Irish coach 
right place draw­ing charges, set­ting screens and finding the open man. 
"When you sit down and you start talking about stuff, you watch his eyes and he asks great questions," Brey said. "You 

can make adjustments. He'd be a heck of a coach, let me put it that way." 
He's not the quickest or most athletic player on the court, "He's a great guy 
for me to talk through," Brey said. "Because Kyle [McAlarney] and I are still developing that niche, but Colin and I really have had that." 
So given Falls' willingness to put aside his own stardom for the success of the team, it's really no surprise he wanted to move along with the game after his l,OOOth point Wednesday instead of stopping to listen to the cheers. 
The surprise is that nobody else saw it coming. 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgiffi3@nd.edu 


Irish 
continued from page 20 
Notre Dame was unable to submit a proposed schedule to the faculty board for athletics for months. And Notre Dame still hasn't posted an official schedule. 
Notre Dame eventually hired Gia Kvaratskhelia, but not until events were fast approaching. 
And in the midst of it all, the Irish stayed at the top of the fencing landscape. 
At the Penn State Open, the premier national preseason individual duals held the first week of November, Notre Dame captured second-place finishes in all three women's divisions, and five men finished in the top-1 0 of their events. 
Senior sabreist Valerie Providenza, who entered as the No. 2 seed, went 15-0 in three rounds of double-elimi­nation competition and topped standout Penn State senior Sophie Hiss along the way to the final. There, Providenza fell to Ohio State junior Siobhan Byrne 15-10. 
Providenza, a senior from Beaverton, Ore., captured the 2004 NCAA Sabre Championship with a win over Hiss in the final and won the Junior Olympics title in that discipline the same year. 
"Finishing second was nice, although ifI had been on top of my game I should have won," Providenza said. "I lost to my friend ... but it was still disap­pointing to know I could have won, but didn't." 
Competing with a strained muscle, Providenza said she was happy with her perform­ance. 
"I wouldn't have been happy unless I made it into the top two, and after I did that, I just fenced as well as I could at that time," she said. 'The day drags on and you get tired, so all you can do is try to focus and fence the bout at that minute." 
But Providenza wasn't the only Irish woman in the finals. Epeeist Kelley Hurley and foilist Adi Nott, both freshman, made it to their finals. Hurley entered as the No. 1 seed and went 14-0 in double elimina­tion bouts. Hurley beat Wayne State senior Justyna Konczalska, who captured fourth place in the 2006 NCAA Championships. Two-time NCAA Champion Anna Garina, Konczalska's teammate, defeated Hurley in the final bout, 15-13. 
Nott was the unlikely star of the Open for Notre Dame. Seeded 11th entering the tour­nament, the freshman went 12-1 in her double-elimination bouts to surge to the No. 4 seed for the final four rounds. Nott then reached the final, where she lost to 2005 NCAA champion Emily Cross, a junior from Harvard. 

On the men's side, Irish sen­ior epeeist Aaron Adjemian went from the 15th seed enter­ing the tournament to a third­place finish. Adjemian lost his semifinal bout 15-13 to Wayne State senior Marek Petraszek, who was the 2005 NCAA run­ner-up and turns 25 years old in January. Adjemian beat Penn State junior 15-13 in the consolation bout to finish in the top-3. 
Notre Dame sophomore foilist Mark Kubik entered as the No. 4 seed and fmished the tournament in that spot. Kubik was 12-2 in pool bouts and beat the No. 2 seed, Harvard sophomore Kai ltameri-Kinter, 15-10 in the quarterfinals. 
Irish senior sabreist Patrick Ghattas and junior foilist Jakub Jedrkowiak each took seventh in his discipline. Irish senior Matt Stearns finished eighth in the sabre. 
"We were all really tired that day but did our best," Providenza said. "The day drags on and you get tired, so all you can do is try to focus and fence the bout at that minute." 
While Notre Dame's Gold Medal sabreist, junior Marie! Zagunis, didn't participate in the Penn State Open, she made her mark a month earlier at the World Championships. 
Zagunis lost 15-11 to 16­year-old training partner Becca Ward in the sabre cham­pionship in Toronto in an all­American final that broke a slew of historical records. 
Before that event, only one other American had ever won a medal in the World Championships. 
But the meeting was nothing new for either Zagunis or Ward, who train together at the Oregon Fencing Alliance in Portland, Ore. 
Zagunis beat American Sada Jacobson 15-10 in the semifi­nals before taking on Ward in the championship bout. 
And all of that was without Bednarski, who guided the Irish to national titles in 2001 -his first year-and 2003. But with Bednarski back at practices -along with Kvaratskhelia -for Notre Dame, the Irish are looking forward to whatever lies ahead. 
"It was very strange not to have Janusz at practice, but our new coach Gia really stepped up and took over," Providenza said. "Practice defi­nitely felt different for me when Janusz wasn't there. We were all very happy to have him return. 
"We're just taking it one practice at a time, preparing for whichever tournament comes next." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, December 5, 2006 
Fresh01en 
continued from page 20 
the 1 00-fly), Andrew Deters (third in the 1000-freestyle) and Tyler Angelo (third in the 100 and ZOO-breaststroke) are three other swimmers who will try to make the cut in Beijing. 
"These guys have consis­tently been on a big stage their whole careers," Tallman said. "They know what it's like." 
Other new team members have made an immediate impact by posting the fastest times on the team in the respective events. 
Freshman Sam Pendergast has posted the top times in the 100 and ZOO-breast­stroke. 
"We love Sam. Sam is a big, strong, powerful racer," Welsh said. "He's also very savvy and he's been getting better and better." 
Fellow freshman John Lytle has posted top team times in the 50 and 100-freestyle. 
"John is a kid that's come in and worked his tail off," Tallman said. "He's setting himself up to be where we want him to be later in the season. 
Lytle joined the Irish on the heels of a YMCA national championship last spring in the 1 00-freestyle. 
"He's done a great job for us all fall. and has been a great addition for us." Welsh said. "We're dependent upon him already." 
Sophomore Jeff Wood, a transfer student from Indiana, has stood out in the backstroke, posting the top times in the 50, 100, and ZOO-meter events. Wood post­ed these top times in the dual meet against Texas A&M, leading to event wins in the 100 and ZOO. 
"One thing Jeff has con­tributed, along with his back­strokes, is that competitive drive to win," Welsh said. 
Not only does the future look bright for these swim­mers in their individual events, but their performanc­es in the relays also are an important part of the team's overall success. Both Wood and Lytle have five relay wins this season and finished fifth along with Pendergast and senior Tim Kegelman at the Ohio State Invitational in the 400-medley relay. 
"Out of ZO relay spots avail­able, more than half are taken up by freshman," Tallman said. "This proves the depth of the class and shows how they have con­tributed to the team." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
SPACE JAM 

TIM SULLIVANfThe Observer Irish guard Russell Carter finishes a layup during Notre Dame's 93-87 win over Lehigh Nov. 27. 

Kessler 
continued from page 20 
Even though the Bnlles eame out strong offensively in the second half. thny still only shot 
34.4 pereent. The difference, however, was in their defensn. Saint Mary's was able to stifle the Lady Hod shootnrs, forc~i ng them to shoot only 34.6 pereent in the seeond hall'. 
"We stepped up thn D, eaused more turnovers and ran the floor well" guard Allison Kessler said. 
Kessler, who scored 1R points and was 11-of-13 from the charity stripe, noticed a trans­formation between the Belles of the first half and the Belles in the second half. 
Freshman center Anna Kammrath was a huge pres­ence in the paint, grabbing 17 boards and scoring 10 points ­her second double-double of the season. Kammrath has dominated in the post all year and, according to Coach Henley, has been a "pleasant surprise" contributing as a freshman. 
With eight minutes remaining in the game, Belles guard Bridget Lipke sank a pair of free throws to give Saint Mary's its first lead of the night at 51­


50. Lipke played 38 minutes in the contest and notched 13 points and six assists in the loss. 
"We had to dig, dig, dig to get out of the hole we dug" Henley said. "[A) mental game is where we're at right now. We've been playing some tough games on the road." 
But Carthage responded with a 10-1 run to retake command of the game. Lipke kept the team close after the Lady Red run, but missed on a game tying attempt at the buzzer. 
The Belles travel to Albion, Mich. tomorrow to face Adrian College at 7:30p.m. 
Contact Dan Cooper at dcooper 1 @nd.edu 

University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME CHORALE & CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR 

8:00 p.m.  · Saturday, December 9, 2006  
2:00 p.m.· Sunday, December 10, 2006  
LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL  
a~~)ft ''i,'<dl'  DEHARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS  '  
MARIE P. DEBARTOLO  TICK.fTS $10/$8/$5/$3  UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME  

CENTER fOR THE PERFORMING ARTS PHONE 574-631-2800 DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC 
• 

BE SURE TO GET THERE EARLY. EATING IS VERY LIMITED 




I #6MICHIGAN 
DA~ DEC. 10 
FOR THIS GAME! 


3:U0PM 


Tuesday, December 5, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ALEC WHITE

JOCULAR 
'C.a use" no one btke"s do"''ll 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 


CROISSANTWORLD 

HENRI ARNOLD 


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WOAD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LAVNA 

ri J I I 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
SINEA 
rJ I 
t
THUSIA ± 

j 
WHAT HE:R HUS­BAND SAID WHE:N
J I r J 
www.jumble.com 

HE: SAW THE: PRICE: OF HE:R NE:W WIG. BLATUR 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as



[J [ [J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Ans:[ I I I J'D [I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: MAIZE GRIEF HARROW FORGOT Saturday's Answer·. 
Hard to get out of without paying ­A MORTGAGE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 Dairy case buy 69 New driver, typically
Proofer's mark 38 Belgrade native 70 Hatchling's
5 Hinged fastener 40 Subject of a home
cigarette rating 14 In person 
9 "Fiddlesticks!" 
41 Think ahead DOWN
42 Ocular woe 1 Prelude to a 15 Gen. Bradley 43 Fast-food16 Get in touch duel
with dispenser items 2 Runs out of
17 Flooring 46 Norm: Abbr. 
steam measure 47 Exhaust tube 3 Media attraction 
18 Like some pizza 49 Small batteryorders 4 It sits in a
size saucer

19 Skylit lobbies 51 It may be filed 5 Nickname on
20 Desktop 52 Premier "M*A*S*H"container 
Khrushchev 6 Oil company 23 Banned 
55 Unit of work 

that mergedinsecticide 
57 Software flaw with BP 24 Place to 
61 Mustard choice 7 It's a long story 
rehearse 63 Sites for studs 
8 Cowherd's tool 
datum 64 Bit of dust 9 Bedtime appeal 27 Get-up-and-go 65 Pong maker 10 Good to go 28 Take step one 66 What's more 11 Crusty bakery 32 Army one-67 In a bit, to bards buys 
striper: Abbr. 68 Mandrake's 12 Battery fluid 35 Trash receptacle forte 13 "Come again?" 21 Think tank 
25 Wine bottle 
ANSWER TO PlilEVIOUS PUZZLE 
nugget -:'i+'i+::+.:+.:-t 22 Cannon of Hollywood 26 On the peak of 28 Close call 29 The O'Hara estate .;:;+.;:+::;..t.,~ 30 Heroic deed 31 Sweet on, with 
"of" 
32 Low-key "Hey!" 
-::t:':i-7+.:71-:-t 33 Cheese in salads 
-=+-:-:+-:+=+::-! 34 Blubberer's binge 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Gail Grabowski 
36 Letters before 50 Barnstormer, 55 Cheese in a ://www e.g. ball 
39 Composer 52 Clara Barton, 56 Meter maid of Bartok for one 
song 
43 Feed holder 53 Steakhouse 58 Spam, e.g.
selection
44 Serves at a 59 Hardly tanned 
restaurant 54 Ends of 20-and 57-Across and 
60 Mannerly sort45 Sushi go-with 
11-and 48 Ant attractor 34-Down 62 " ... _quit!" 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________________ City----~---State ______ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tyra Banks, 32; Marisa Tomei, 41; Jozef Sabovcik, 42; Jeff Bridges, 56 
Happy Birthday: Take a chance this .year by getting involved in something totally different. This is a perlect year for a partnership that will compliment you personally or professionally. This is a year of growth and expansion. Your numbers are 8, 12, 23, 29, 36, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Take a position that will put you in the driver's seat. Use your energy wisely and begin making some of the changes you've been planning to do to your home. Leave time to socialize. ** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Stay active today. Downtime will lead to dissatisfaction. Visiting friends or attending an interesting exhibit will stimulate ideas. Arelationship with someone special will take an interesting tum. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Put a little extra push on a pending deal. The more you do to position yourself, the better. An opportunity will develop through someone you used to work with. Emotional matters can be dealt with. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your emotions will take over. making it easier for you to let others know your thoughts. This is a perlect day to explore the possibility of a new relationship. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may find yourself thinking more about someone you met through work. Don't miss out on an opportunity because you don't know how to approach this person. Your detenuination will bring good results. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Much will evolve from the conversations and interactions you have with others today. Get involved in community events or social activities that interest people from all different backgrounds. ***** LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will be tempted to try something that is not good for you. Think before you take a chance that could ruin your reputation, relationship or even your health. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You owe it to yourself and the one you love to pay a little attention to what life is really all about. Atime to relax, share thoughts and understand what's best for you in the future will give you a lift. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Changes in your personal life will take you by surprise, but will also help you make a decision you have been putting off. Secrets may be revealed, giving you a much better understanding. Apartnership will develop. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Consider what's best for you today. Doing things for someone else will leave you feeling cheated and may ruin the connection you have to this person. Get out and meet new people. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb.18): Nothing will be out in the open or made available for you to see. You will have to act on your own instincts, especially in relationships. Be observant and listen to what someone else has to say. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll have plenty of opportunities when it comes to love, friendship or even business partnerships. Money is coming in your direction but not for the reason you expect. Afast reaction may be requited. **** 
Birthday Baby: You are solid and stable, with charm, insight and a thought­provoking mind. You have skill in finding solutions, empowering others and seeing yourself and your loved ones through thick and thin. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, December 5, 2006. 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Coming of age 
Notre Dame guard Colin Falls' basketball IQ proves more important than career point total 
"If there's any way to do it,By BOB GRIFFIN that's the way to do it," guard
Sports Writer 

Kyle McAlarney said about Falls' point milestone coming
When the announcement 

on a free throw. "It's great for
echoed through the Joyce 

him, he's a great player, he'sCenter Wednesday that guard always been a great player for
Colin Falls had just reached 

four years and I'm happy for
the l,OOO"point plateau in his him."

collegiate career, it seemed 

Falls, now with 1,017 pointseveryone in attendance heard 
after scoring 14 in an upset
it besides the senior himself. 

victory over then No. 19/23
Instead of stopping and wav" 

Maryland Sunday, has been
ing to the crowd between free Mr. Reliable for Notre Dame in 

throws to acknowledge the 

his four seasons -becoming
milestone amidst a 90"45 

one of the most recognizableblowout over Winston"Salem shooters in college basketball. 
State, Falls was all business­But Falls has taken on differ"

focusing not on his accom" 

ent responsibilities this seasonplishment but instead his sec" 
separate from hitting long"
and shot. 

range jumpers, even though itAnd for anyone who has fol" might be more comfortable for lowed the senior's career with the senior to rely on his bread
Notre Dame, it's pretty clear 

and butter -shooting.
what happened next. He sunk it. see FALLS/page 17 

ALLISON AMBROSE!The Observer 
Left, Irish guard Colin Falls shoots a 3"pointer during Notre Dame's 90"45 win against Winston" . Salem State Nov. 29. Right, Falls dribbles against the Rams in the Irish victory. 
ND SWIMMING 

Notre Dame freshmen contribute to team's early success 
struggle while the younger Association of America the new recruits occurred this meet, and it was quite and 
By CHRIS HINE 

recruits develop into top"tier (CSCAA) Poll -the highest in past weekend at the Ohio State accomplishment for him." Sports Writer 
swimmers, but not for Notre the program's history. Invitational when freshman LeBlanc is part of a handful Dame. "Everybody has assumed the MacKenzie LeBlanc set a pool of freshman that have already
The men's swimming and A talented freshman class roles we've expected them to record in the 200"yard butter" qualified for the 2008 Olympicdiving team lost 10 seniors and the addition of transfer fill during recruiting," associ" fly with a time of 1:48.36. trials, even before they came to from last year's Big East sophomore Jeff Wood have led ate head coach Matt Tallman "Mac is a very talented, ver" Notre Dame. Freshmen RayChampionship team. The loss the Irish to a 4"0 dual meet said. "Nobody has done less satile, and fast swimmer," head Toomey (second on the team in of such key team members record and a No. 16 ranking in than expected." coach Tim Welsh said. "That could cause some squads to the College Swim Coaches The highlight of the year for was out team's only win at that see FRESHMEN/page 18 
FENCING 

Irish win despite ill coach 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 
In the depths of the Joyce Center, national champions wait for the opportunity to prove themselves again. 
Notre Dame went months without a definitive set of events, but this year scheduling is the last of its concerns. Earlier this semester, Irish coach Janusz Bednarski had an emer" gency appendectomy that limit" ed his work at a time when Notre Dame was in transition. His old assistant coach, Zoltan Dudas, took the head job at Princeton after four seasons at Bednarski's side. 
see IRISH/page 17 


SMC BASKETBALL 

Kessler scores ·18 in 
Belles loss at Carthage 
By DAN COOPER Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's (1 "6) traveled to play Carthage (3"2) last night and returned home early this morning after suffering a 63"61 defeat at the hands of the Lady Reds. 
With the loss, the Belles have now lost six games by a total of only 12 points. 
Saint Mary's came out slug" gish after a long bus ride to Kenosha, Wis., allowing Carthage to jump to an early 18"2 lead. The Lady Reds would lead by as much as 21 in the first half and sent the Belles into the locker room with a 38" 25 deficit at intermission. 
For the Lady Reds in the first half, everything seemed to go right. The te'!-m spot 46.4 per" cent from the floor, but were able to hold the Belles to only 
25.9 percent shooting. Leading the Carthage offense was for" ward Katie Jarger, whose 18 points was most for her team. 
A different Saint Mary's team took the court to start the sec" ond half. For the first twenty minutes of the second half the Belles outplayed the Lady Reds to the tone of a 26"12 run. 
see KESSLER/page 18 


NBA 




The Irish figure Stanford fires coach
Megan Gray finishes 
Rutgers coach Greg 

Seattle strengthens its 
Washington 106 

skaters performed their 
Schiano tells the Walt Harris after two

133rd as the only Belles outfield by signing Jose 

Dallas 9"7 

routine despite having 
University of Miamirunner in the NCAA 

seasons and a 6"17 over" Guillen to a one"year, 
The Wizards snap the technical issues with 
Division III race. 
that he will stay with all record with the 

$5.5 million deal. 
Mavericks' 12 gametheir music. 
the Scarlet Knights. 

Cardinal. 
winning streak behind Gilbert Arenas' 38 points. 
page 15 page 14page 16 page 14 page 14 page 12 









