
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marys 
Abroad returnees readjust to ND 
By JOE TROMBELLO News Writer 
Hditor:<> Note: 11zis is the first in a two­part series exploring how students make the transition back to Notre Dame fmm studyiny abroad. 
"l•:xpnet lif'n to bn difl'nrnnt," reads a snntnncn in tlw London Program's ori­nntation handbook given to students hdiJrn t.lwir snnwstnr abroad. For many Notm Damn studnnls, cultural and lin­guistic dill'nrnnens can rnakn rn-nntry into t.hn Unitnd Statt~s -and espnda.lly into t.hn Notrn Damn community-dilli­('llll al'lnr spnnding a sunmwr. smnestnr or yn;u· abroad. 
Tnrri Bays, assodatn dirnetor of' the London Program -Notre Dame's 
see ABROAD/page 9 


Book buyers look to new options for deals 
Though she had to wait for her books to be shipped, Cimino felt that it was worth the wait. 
"The tradeoiT is that it takes a couple of days to receive the books, but it is worth it for the amount of money saved," she said. "I also sold many text­books online that I had not been able to soli back to tho bookstore. In the past two days, I have made $200 just on selling books." 
Students are using Web sites such as Betterworldbook.com, Amazon.com, EBay.com and 1-lalf.com (owned by EBay), which oiTer competitive prices on the same new and used books sold at the bookstore. 
In December 2002, two 
see BOOKS/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Catnpaign exchange heats up 

SMC presidential, vice presidential hopefuls vie for votes 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saint Mary's Editor 
Midway through tlwir cam­paigns, Saint. Mary's studnnt body presidential and vice prnsidential eandidates trind to win ovnr vot­ers Thursday by linlding studnnls' questions on everything from past lead­ership experi-See Also enco to the 
"Saint Mary's
College's rela­elections 2006"
tionship with Notre Dame. 
page4
The nxch­ange bntween 

· presidential hopnful and curnmt studnnt body vicn prnsidnnt Susan Mcllduff and running mate Maggie Snifiwt and opposing can­didates Amanda Shropshirn and Annie Davis was largely eongnnial as the tickets outlined intnndnd ehanges and highlightnd pnrsonal attributes. 
Mdldufl' mnphasiznd hnr role as presidnnt of tho Student Academic Counsel whiln saying one of lwr main goals if nloctod would be to improvn students' seleetion of and enrollment in courses by making all coursn requirements available to stu­dents prior to rngistration. McllduiT also hopes to exami1w adding and dropping Glasses, a 
see ELECTI 0 NIpage 8 


By LUISA CABRERA 
NewsWrirer 
While many returning stu­dents packed the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore with seemingly endless lines during the past week, some opted to buy their books elsewhere. Arter semesters of purchasing costly books while receiving minimal money back for the used copy al'ter finals, students say they are exploring less expensive ways of buying books as well as buy back pro­grams with better incentives -despite a new Bookstore rewards program. 
Senior Mary Catherine Cimino used Amazon.com for the first time to purchase and soli her books this semester. 




Unique challenges confront transfer students 
Patience required during class registration, housing search 
on-eampus housing her first who transferred in the fall By KAREN LANGLEY somester. Instead, she found of his sophomore year, lived A~sistant News Editor an apartment at Turtle in a one-person studio 
Crock with three other apartment at Turtle Creek When eollego students female transfer students while waiting to receive on­
open thnir transfer aeeept­who had met on a message campus housing. He got a 
anen letters from Notre board set up by the Office of place in Knott Hall in l>anw, they may assume the Undergraduate Admissions. October of that year. hardest part is behind The group had addressed "That's when I met my them. But all of the paperwork friends," he said. "The first 
oven though required to rent the apart­month a half was a little 
transfer ori-See Also ment but had not yet signed weird because there aren't 
entation tho lease, a delay that a lot of ways to meet peo­During Freshman 
smooth o s "Saint Mary's proved fortuitous when ple. You go to class and 
Orientation, sophomores 

the start to transfers face Martell was contacted five then there's nowhere to go 
lead new students.

their careers days before she arrived on back to but your place." 
minor

as Notre campus and informed that Brennan had met people Transfer students must 
Dame stu­difficulties" she could live in a dorm. in class and through pick­
assume greater

dents, hous­Iler roommates were also up sports, but he became 
page3 independence.
ing and given on-campus housing. more involved in the com­class regis-"The difference between munity after moving into 
•

tration have proved chal­living on campus and off Knott. He served as the 
PHOTOS BY

lenging for some transfers campus is like day and hall's senator his junior this year. night," Martell said. ''I'm so year and is currently a resi­DUSTIN 
Anne Martell, a sopho­glad-I can't even imagine dent assistant. 
MENNELLA& 

more transfer this fall, had not living on campus." bmm told she would not get Ryan Brennan, a senior see TRANSFERS/page 3 BETH WERNET 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
I have an iPod dream_ 
There is nothing as blissfully anti­intellectual as the late night cartoon comedy block (because the anime it contains is to be avoided) on Cartoon Network known as [adult swim]. 
The most well-
known show, and Peter Ninneman also my personal favorite, "Aqua Teen Hunger News Force," features Production a genius box of Editor French fries, a trouble-making milkshake and a lovable mentally handicapped wad of raw meat, all living under one roof in Jersey, next to the outstandingly irritable and libidinous Carl, clothed in a wife­beater and blue sweatpants. 
This is basically the format of [adult swim] cartoons. There is some crazy situation with eccentric char­acters from which hilarity (usually) ensues. There is rarely a conven­tional plotline or message. The best way to describe these shows, in all truthfulness, is "dumb." 
This, however, is not really the case with a show new to both [adult swim] and television itself: "The Boondocks," adapted from the politi­cally-and socially-charged comic strip by Aaron McGruder that is syn­dicated in about 350 American newspapers. 
Over break, I was fortunate to catch the Martin Luther King Day episode, entitled "Return of the King." 
The premise of the episode is this: when MLK was shot, he slipped into a coma, but failed to die. He comes to in the present day, and moves to Chicago, where the main characters, Huey and Riley Freeman and their grandfather Robert, live. 
It turns out that Robert and MLK were brothers in the civil rights movement (Robert was sitting next to Rosa Parks, but she got all the attention). Through their relation­ship, Riley, a politically aware "urban youth," meets and immedi­ately accepts Dr. King as a comrade­in-arms, asking him to head up America's first black political party. 
MLK, however, has been branded by the media as anti-American for believing his country should turn the other cheek to al-Qaeda. In addition, he has basically been forgotten by those he nearly gave up his life for. 
The most memorable line of the show, in my opinion, is MLK saying, ''I'm not sure if I need a 20 gig iPod or a 40 gig." 
There is so much truth revealed about our society in that simple line. There are so many social injustices left in the world for our generation to face, yet how often do we find ourselves more concerned with the type of iPod or video game system we should buy? Even MLK's famous dream hasn't been fully realized, and not enough people seem to real­ize that. It is ironic that the progress we have made in the past 40 years has blinded us from the problems we have in front of us. 
We are all guilty, to some extent, of not picking up where Dr. King left off. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Peter Ninneman at 
pninnema@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, rerognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please ronracr us at 631-4541 so we can rorrecr our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, January 20, 2006 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHERE DO YOU BUY YOUR BOOKS? 


Tom Hoffman  Colin Heye  Adebola Giwa  
freshman O'Neill  freshman O'Neill  freshman Alumni  
"Umm ... the bookstore. ,,  "Online."  "I compete in battles of valor."  






Meghan Johnson  Jason Vierig  Mike McKenna  
freshman Cavanaugh  freshman O'Neill  sophomore Zahm  
"Amazon and the bookstore. "  "You have to buy books?"  'Tibetan traders in  


Court upholds obscene yogurt conviction 
SEOUL -The Supreme Court has upheld a lower court ruling convicting a dairy executive for an obscene event promoting his company's yogurt, a news report said Thursday.· 
The court upheld a lower court fine of 5 mil­lion won ($5,000) for the executive, identified by his family name Kang, Yonhap news agency reported, citing the top court's ruling. 
It also upheld fines of between 500,000 won · ($500) and 2 million won 
($2,000) on three models for staging a nude per­formance with the yogurt at a crowded Seoul art gallery in 2003, Yonhap said. 
The models, caked in wheat flour, used spray devices to squirt each other with yogurt, which washed off the flour to expose their bodies, Yonhap reported. 
Police arrest man wear­ing only toga 
MORGANTOWN, N.C. ­Police captured a man wearing ~mly a toga while he sped away in a car with women's underwear inside. Michael Sean Ostrander, 33, was arrest­ed Monday after allegedly breaking into the home of a Burke County woman and making off with some of her clothes. 
The woman told police she was visiting a neigh­bor when she heard her burglar alarm go off and saw a man flee in a car. 

The woman gave chase and called the police, with the state Highway Patrol and local officers joining the pursuit along North. 
Carolina Highway 181. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Mongolia." 
IN BRIEF 

Football walk-on applications are due today at the football office of the Guglielmino Athletics Complex. Forms can be picked up at the football office. 
The Notre Dame Student Film Festival begins today at 7 p.m. in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The Festival will feature 12 short films made as class projects during the past year and will include dark come­dies and documentaries. 
Bill O'Connell's Chicago Skyliners, a swing band, will per­form today at 10 p.m. at Legends. 
The Saint Mary's swim team will compete against Kalamazoo College in its final home meet of the season today at 6:30 p.m. in Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
The Saint Mary's first year board is sponsoring Battle of the Bands 2006 Saturday at 6:30 
p.m. in the Saint Mary's Student Center. The event will feature Notre Dame bands "Somers­aults," "Slap Bracelet Suicide," "Robbie Hazen," "Ryan Connaughton" and "Patrick the Unlikely Genius." Proceeds ben­efit Riley Hospital for Children. 
Tim Reynolds, a collaborator with the Dave Matthews Band, will perform at Legends Saturday at 10 p.m. ND/Saint Mary's/Holy Cross ID required. 
Mission IMPROVable, a Chicago-based improv comedy group, will perform Saturday at 9 p.m. in Washington Hall. Admission is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 0::: 
IJ.I ::z::: 
!cC 
IJ.I 
~ 
..... 
<C 
(.) 0 


HIGH 43 HIGH 38 HIGH 35 HIGH 35
...1 

LOW 38 LOW 33 LOW 25 LOW 25 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

~ 
HIGH 40 HIGH 42 LOW 25 LOW 27 
Atlanta 62 I 36 Boston 45 I 30 Chicago 45 I 28 Denver 39 I 28 Houston 77 I 53 Los Angeles 64 I 48 Minneapolis 31 I 17 New York 47 I 33 Philadelphia 51 I 33 Phoenix 65 I 45 Seattle 44 I 37 St. Louis 62 I 40 Tampa 71 I 40 Washington 55/ 32 
Friday, January 20, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Saint Mary's transfers face n1inor difficulties 
By LAURA BAUMGARTNER 
News Writer 
Hnturning to school al'ter a month-long hrnak can bn a clilli­eult adjustnwnt li1r any student, hut the adjustnwnt to Saint Mary's is much morn harrowing li1r new spring transli1r student'>. 
With this challenge in mind, Saint Mary's tries to smooth the transition li1r transfers by provid­ing an orientation with tours and othnr activitins through tho Olliee of' Studnnt Activitins. 
Transfer students are also assistnd in finding housing by Ht~sideneo Lilil and in registering li1r dasses by Aeadomie All'airs. 
"Typically, they follow same proensses li1r housing and regis­tering as any student first coming to the College," said Michelle Hussnll, dirnetor of Hnsidonce Life. 
In the snareh liJr housing, trans­lilr student'> are treated the same as student'> returning from studies abroad, Hussnll said. Studnnto;; fill out a housing preferencn form and are then matched with room­mates based on their preferenees, as well a.o;; their year in school and their age, and what rooms are available, she said. 
"We did have some problems this semester because there were no doubles available," Bussell said. "When something like that happens, we look at what is avail­able and place student'l where we can." 
There arn 12 student<; who have transferred to Saint Mary's so far, the registrar said, though that number could rise. Students still have the opportunity to decide to transfer to Saint Mary's throughout this week, Hussell said. 
"We won't be sure of the final number of transfer studenl'l until enrollment ends on Sunday," she said. "Until enrollment nnds, there is still the possibility that more students may decide to come here." 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaumgO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
INLOVINGMEMORY OF 
LUCY BLANDFORDPILKINTON A.B., M.A., PH.D. 
27 FEB 1943--19 ]AN 1994 
college -receive advising from their deans, the students

Transfers 
continued from page 1 
"When I first got (to Notre Darnel, I had nothing to do but go to tho library and do well in sehool," he said. "When I got into the dorms, there was a lot more to do. My grades got a Jot worsn, but it was a good thing." 
Sophomore transfer Casey Bouskill was set to 

often struggle to find open classes for which they meet the prerequisites, said Associate Hcgistrar Laura Spaulding, 
"So many classes arc closed now that they have a roal prob­lem with that," she said. "They'll get something, but it's probablr, not the best sclwdule around. 
At such a fate date, there is no way to avoid the scramble to find classes, said Associate 
Director of' 
live in a hotel f'or the first week of  "I think transfer  Admissions Susan Joyce.  
sehool, but like Martell, she was told a few days before the semes­ students bring a unique perspective to  "I tell people, the first semester is going to bo a lit­tle bit of' a scav­ 
ter's start that she  Notre Dame. "  enger hunt, but  
would bn living in  they will get good  
Farley llall. "I found out four days .. before. I eame, she said.  Susan Joyce associate director of admissions  counseling about what (credits( transf'er," Joyce said.  
"It  was  pretty  Though  the  
nerve-wracking."  nature of Arts and  

Despite the stress of chang­Letters programs lead that col­ing plans last minute, Bouskill lege's transfers to face the was enthusiastic about living most problems while register­on campus. ing for classes, history major 
"Dorm life is elearly an Martell said the process was essential part of the life of an easier than she expectf1d, con­ND student, a home base per sidering the late date of trans­se," she said "If I was not as fer registration fortunate as I was to be on "Professors have been really campus, I would be missing out understanding," she said. on all the bonds and friend­"They know we get there at the ships I've made at Farley. It last minute, if you go and talk truly has become a home, to people they're really under­instead of a place to rest my standing. Everyone -faculty, head." advisors, students and rectors 
Transfer students also -were bending over back­encounter dilliculty with regis­wards to help." tnring for dasses, a process the Though neither locating rest of the student body com­housing nor registering for pleted months earlier. Though classes went error-free, stu­the transfer students -who dents were enthusiastic about are all admitted directly to a their transf'er orientation, an 
event that they described as more mature and intimate than their freshman orienta­tions. 
"Our orientation was over 100 people, but everyone became pretty tight," Martell said. "It was a great bonding experienec and how wo made all our friends." 
Orientation is rljn by former transfer studonts. Both nnw transfers and the Admissions Olliee stressed the importanen of' the cxpnrience thnir orienta­tion leadnrs brought to the event. 
"Who bntter than those who have been through it to help them make the soda! and aea­demic transition'?" Joyce said. 
The f'our-day fall orientation featured events like a ~~aterml trip to the dunes, group tours and discussions held by tho lakes. This lengthy adjustment period is a luxury whieh spring transfers do not experience, Joyce said. 
"Spring semestnr !transfer( studtmts have to have an extra resilience," she said. 
Though sna.mless transitions to a new college are rare, .Joyce lauded the enthusiasm and resilence of Notrn Dame's transfers. She emphasized that once transfers arrivP on cam­pus, they are Notre Dame stu­dents. 
"I think transfer students 
bring a uniq~e pers~ect.i.~~1 to Notre Damn, she smd. I hey tend to be the most active stu­
dents, sinee they're fitting f(IUr years into two and a half or three years. There's no doubt in my mind that they eon­tribute to the eommunity." 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel @nd.edu 



The Observer 
is currently accepting applications for the 

2006-07 Editor-in-Chief 
Applicants must submit BOTH a resume and at least a 10-PAGE proposal explaining their interest in the position and their plans for running the newspaper. 
Applications are due Sunday, January 22 by 5 p.m. 
COMPLETED APPLICATIONS CAN BE SUBMITTED TO THE OBSERVER'S OFFICE IN THE BASEMENT OF SOUTH DINING HALL. 
Contact Editor-in-Chief Claire Heininger at 1-4542 for more information 




Saint Mary's elections 2006: 
Meet the Belles who could rule the school 







MATT HUDSON/Observer Graphic 
.r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


ORLD & NATION 
Friday, January 20, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S wrRE sr.RvrcEs page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Slovak plane crash kills at least 16 
BUI>/\PISI' -!\ Slovak military plane rnturn­ing from Kosovo craslwd in a mountainous region of northeastern Hungary on Thursday, killing at lmtst 16 of' tho more than 40 peopln on b(1ard. ollieials said. 

At lnast onn survivor was found at the site of' thn r.rash rwar tho Slovak border, said Tibor Dobson, a spokesman l'or Hungary's national disw;tnr ag(mey. 
lnt(1rior Ministry spokesman Sandor Orodan said tlw ain:ral't was carrying Slovak soldiers, but hn did not nlaboratn. 
But a NATO ollker, who spoke on eondition of' anonymity lweausn he was not authorized to sp(1ak on to tlw mndia, said in Kosovo that the plano earrind homoward bound Slovak troops who had b1Hm serving in tho NATO-led pnace­knnping l'on:11. Ollidals say Slovak troops help patrol tho boundary bntwEHm Kosovo and Serbia. 

Baghdad bombings kill over a dozen 
B/\(;IID/\1>-Two near-simultaneous bombings targded a crowded downtown Baghdad coiTen shop and a nearby restau­rant Thursday, killing more than a doznn twopln. The attacks eame as a foreign assessnwnt tP<ttn r11portml evidence of' fraud in th11 Doe. 15 Plnetions, but did not endorse r.alls for a r11run. 
Tlrn homhings occurred dnspitn govnrn­nwnt rnovns to lwight11n sneurity as the elnc­tion rommission prnparns to announce tlw PIPetion rpsults. Th11 annourH~nment, whieh could como Friday, sets tho stagn for talks on a IWW national unity government U.S. ofli­rials hopn will help ralm tho insurgency and Pnabln tlw Unit11d States to begin withdraw­ing its 140,000 troops. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Unmanned spacecraft sent to Pluto 
CAPE C/\N/\VEH/\L -An unmanned NASA spa('.m:ral't hurtlnd toward Pluto on Thursday on a :I-billion-miln journey to the solar system's last urwxplornd planet-a voyage so long that sonw of' tlw seilmtists who will be celebrating its arrival are just taking their first physics class. 
Tho Nnw Horizons sp1u:ecral't blastnd off aboard an Atlas V rockot in a spnc:tacular start to tlw $700 million mission. Though it is tho f'astnst spac(H:raft (1V(1f" launchnd, capable of' rna('hing 36,000 mph. it will take I) 1/2 years to rnarh Pluto and t.hn frozen. sunless reaches of tlw solar systnm. 
"Cod has laid out tlw solar system in a way that mquirns a certain amount of' patience on tlw part of' thosn who dwosn to nxplore it." NASA administrator Miduwl Criflin said. 

College students lack literacy skills 
W/\SIIIN<;TON-Nearing a diploma, most c:ollngo studnnts eannot handle many (~omplnx hut common tasks, from under­standing nndit card ol'l'nrs to eomparing tho eost pnr ouncn of l'ood. 
Tlwsn am tlw sobnring findings of a study of' litnracy on eollngn campuses, the lirst to targnt tho skills of students as they approach thn start of l.lwir careors. 
Morn than 50 pnrc:nnt of' students at l'our­ynar sdwols and morn than 75 percent at two-ynar eollngns laeknd thn skills to per­l'orrn eomplnx litnraey tasks. 
loCAL NEWS 

Indy's air ranks among the worst 
INI>I/\N/\POLIS-Indianapolis had the nighth-highnst annual l(wnl of linn-partieln pollution among tlw nation's largest metro­politan armts in 2004-higher than evnn tho Chicago and N(1W York areas-aceording to a rnport rnlnasml today by tho U.S. Public lntnrnst. Hnsnarch <;roup. 
Thn report, based on Environmental Protection Agency data, shownd that Indianapolis continuml to nxcend the annual I'PdPral standard l'or microscopi(: partielns d(•spil«! ynars of improving air quality. 
EGYPT 


Al-Qaida preparing U.S. attacks 
A new tape from Osama bin Laden reveals terror plans; truce offer rejected 
Associated Press 
CAIHO -Osama bin Laden warned in an audiotape aired Thursday that his fighters are preparing new attaeks in the United States but offered the American peo­ple a "long-term truee" without specifying the conditions. 
The tape, portions of which were aired on AI­Jazeera television, was the first from the al-Qaida loader in more than a year. It eame only days after a U.S. airstrike in Pakistan that targeted bin Laden's deputy, /\yman ai­Zawahri, and reportedly killed four leading al­Qaida figures, possibly including al-Zawahri's son-in-law. 
Thorn was no mention of that attack in the tape, which /\1-Jaznnra said was recorded in January. Tho network initially reported it believed the tape was made in December, but later cor­rected itself on the air. Editors at the station said they could not comment on how they knew when it was made 

The CIA has authenti­cated the voice on the tape as that of bin Laden, an agency of'fieial said. The al-Qaida leader is believed to be hiding in do not negotiate with ter­had an echo, as if' record­though it was not dnar if the border region rorists," McClellan said. ed indoors. lin presontnd these worn conditions for between Afghanistan and "We put them out of busi­his message with a combi­tho truen. Pakistan. ness." nation of thmats, vows his Bin Ladnn said hn dndd­
Beyond confirming that U.S. counterterror offi­followers can light forevnr od to mako a statnmnnt to bin Laden remains alive, cials said Thursday they and a tone of reconcilia­thn American peoplo the tape could be aimed have seen no specific or tion, insisting he wants to because lw said Prnsident at projecting an image of credible intelligence to ol'l'er a way to end the Bush was pushing alwad strength to ai-Qaida sym­indicate an impnnding al­wars in Iraq and dnspitn polls which pathizers and portray the Qaida attack on the Afghanistan. showml "an ovnrwhelming group as still capable of United States. The lie even roeornmondod a majority of' you want the launching attacks despite llomeland Security book for Americans to wi thd rawal 0 r /\nw rif:an blows against it, analysts Department has no imme­read "Thn Hogue troops from Iraq." said. diate plans to raise the State," apparently a book lin said tlw Bush admin­
The White llouso rejeet­national terror alert, of the same titln by istration was lying about ed the trueo o!Tnr. spokesman Buss Knocke American author William victorins in thn Iraq war. 
The United States will said. Blum. lie said it otTers tho Bin Ladon insistPd thn not let up in tho war on In the tape, bin Laden path to peace -that insurgcmts will nvnntually terror despite bin Laden's spoke in a soft voice, as America must apologize win tho eonllid. whic:h lw latest thrnats, White he has in previous record­to victims of the wars and said is only strengthening House press secretary ings, but his tone was nat­promise never to "intnr­tho cause of thn "muja­Scott McClellan said. "We tor than in the past and fere" in other nations -hndonn," or holy warriors. 

Leahy and Salazar to oppose Alito 
Associated Press 

W/\SJIJNGTON -Two Democrats who supported Chief Justice John Roberts said Thursday they would oppose Suprnme Court nominee Samuel /\lito in next week's Senate vote. 
The eonservativn judge is expeetod to be eonlirmnd, but with fewer votes than the 7R Hoberts got in September. 

Democratic Sens. Patriek Leahy ol' Vermont and Ken Salazar ol' Colorado both questioned whether Alito would be independent of Prnsident Bush and the exeeutive branch in his futuro rulings. 
"At a time whon the presidc~nt is seiz­ing unprncedented power, the Supreme Court nends to act as a cheek and to provide balance," Leahy, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, said in a speech at Georgetown University's law school. "Based on the hearing and his re1eord, I have no confidence that Judge /\lito would provide that (:hnek and balance." 
Added Salazar in a statement: "Judgn /\lito would place too much power in the hands of the president of' tim United States, at the cost of the· proteetive sys­tem of checks and balances built into our Constitution. 
Thn Judiciary Committee, whkh has 10 Republicans and night Democrats ­is expected to approve /\lito's nomina­tion Tuesday in a party-line vote. The full Senate is expected to debate and votn on tho nomination that sanw wnnk, with iL-; Hepubliean m;~jority c:onlinning thn li~dPral appPals judgn. 
Lnahy, Salazar and Max Bauc.us of' Montana-who annmmwd his opposi­tion to /\lito on Wndrwsday-wore thrPn of thn 22 Detnoerats who voted l'or Hobnrts' eonl'irrnation as tlw rnplaemnent for the latn Chinl' .lustkn William II. Hnhnquist, a eonsnrvativn. 
/\lito is not nxpPctnd to gnt that muc:h support from tho Se1natn's 44-rnnmber Demoeratie c:aueus. lie was piekml by Bush as the rnplaenment l'or rntiring modorate Sandra Day O'Connor, who was thn swing vot(1 on !'.ontnntious issues sueh as abortion and allirmalive action during hnr earner on thn court 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 20, 2006 
Grad students receive $100,000 
Council ofGraduate Schools grants Notre Dame research money 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
Beginning this year, Notre Dame graduate students have been taking a little time from research of their own to assist in a study of doctoral students' habits. 
In 2004, Notre Dame Graduate School received a $100,000 grant from the Council of Graduate 

for the second survey. 
Surveys asked about demographic informa­tion, the challenges and the successes that students anticipate and topics such as the role of students' families in their doctoral experiences. Later surveys follow up these questions. The study as a whole seeks to observe changes in students' expectations as they encounter real experiences. 
A lottery is held as an ineen­
tive for students to take part in 
Schools (CGS) to conduct a "Information will the survey. Participants' names research project to examine are entered into the lottery, and
help us develop
the socialization of graduate one winner is chosen to win doctoral students. $1,000. The first winner of the
programming The CGS gave 15 grants to better to meet the lottery was Joseph Herzog, an various graduate schools that electrical engineering student.
needs of doctoral
designed a project to research Herzog said the research proj­
students."
and develop ways to improve ect will enrich his own doctoral the doctoral experienee for experience. l-Ie encouraged stu­students in areas such as men­Cecilia Lucero dents to participate because taring, financial support and "they can help other people with
assistant to the dean 
program environment. their research so that they can
Graduate School 
Notre Dame's study, led by Dr. Peter Diffley, associate dean of the Graduate School and principal investigator for the project, involves offering surveys to first-year Ph.D. students at Notre Dame and Purdue in hopes of tracking their entire doctoral experiences. 
The study commenced when an initial sur­vey wa:s given to students at the start of the fall 2005 semester and continued with another survey during that semester. A third survey will be given at the beginning of the spring 2006 semester, a fourth during that semester and a fifth at the academic year's end. Funding for the project will continue during the next two years, with three sur­veys issued each year. 
Approximately 300 students from 14 departments at Notre Dame and 14 depart­ments at Purdue participated last semester. The first survey met a 41 percent response rate, and the response grew to 56 percent 
have more data." 

Data gathered from the sur­veys will be used "to get a sense of what experience students have here, as well as at Purdue, so that the Graduate School can enhance its programming for Ph.D. stu­dents," said Cecilia Lucero, Ph.D., assistant to the dean. 
A peer mentoring program has already been launched as a result of the data, as well as a "Careers for Masters Program." This program will help graduate students who are considering careers outside of academia. The Graduate School also seeks feedback on services, such as campus visitations, to see how they impaet prospective graduate stu­dents an'd how they can be improved. 
"Information will help us develop program­ming better to meet the needs of doctoral students," Lucero said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 
Books 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame then-sophomores launched NDBay.com, an online textbook-trading Web site designed to help Notre· Dame stu­dents save money while purchas­ing books. Student body president Dave Baron said student govern­ment purchased NDBay.com in April 2005 from its creators in an attempt to alleviate high book prices. The site was placed under the care of the Student Business Board, but it encountered signifi­cant technical problems and had to be taken down. 
"We are continuing to pursue the issue by working with OIT and the new InsideND portal to provide the book exchange, in a format similar to the new online Rider Board that has achieved quick success," Baron said. 
Freshman Meredith Rowland agreed that using other sources would help her save money, yet she acknowledged that the book­store's location is to its advan­tage. 
"I feel that in the long run, I can save money on buying books from other sources," Rowland said. "What you can't beat is the effi­ciency of being able to walk across eampus and have all your books." 
Sophomore Steven Dias said he prefers to spend more money at the bookstore than have to deal with the hassle of buying books online. 
"My motivation for buying books from the bookstore is the relative ease compared to what I feel I would have to do if I bought them online," Dias said. "I guess I use more money than patience in the process." 
On Jan. 1 the bookstore launched a new rewards program called Bookstore Boomerang Rewards. The program offers one point for every dollar spent in the store and two points for every dollar received for selling books back. Special bonus points are added upon signing up for an account, as well as for purchas­ing select items throughout the year. Once a student has reached a total of 2,000 points, he or she is awarded a $25 gift certificate to the bookstore or a $20 gift cer­tifieate to stores and restaurants such as The Gap, Blockbuster, and Domino's Pizza. 
Bookstore director Sally Wiatrowski said the program was started in order to maintain a loy­alty incentive for the customers. The program will help in main­taining the bookstore's aim to keep the market share on campus and eut the eompetition as much as possible. 
As more inexpensive and satis­factory options become available to students in buying and selling their books, sophomore Mike Hazlebeck doubted the rewards program would have much effect on students' choices. 
"This program is obviously just another ploy by the bookstore to expand their monopoly over milk-· ing students out of more money," Hazlebeck said. "Yes, eventually you might get a eouple free piz­zas, but in reality you could have saved hundreds of dollars by sim­ply taking a couple hours online or talking to people. The Boomerang program is just another attempt to lure people into paying higher prices." 
Contact Luisa Cabrera at lcabrera@nd.edu 
The Nanovic Institute for European Stuaies offers the following Grants ana Fellowship for 2006-2007 
1. 
Research ana Travel Grants to Europe for Graduate Students up to $5JOOO. 

2. 
The Paul G. Tobin Graduate Fellowship of$15JOOO. 


OEAOLINE: February 2~ 2006 

For more information~ calll-5253~ or go to www.na.eau(Nnanovic 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Priday, January 20, 2006 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

10,880.71 +25.85
}ones 
A.
'Uj): Same: Down: Composite Volu11 2,355 I 37 ,..0 2,497,530,460 
AMEX 1,821.38 +24.34. NASDAQ 2.301.81 +22.17 NYSE 8,018.22 +65~2" 
S&PSOO 1,285.04 +7.11 NIKK£1(Tokyo) 15,696.28 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 5,693.20 +29.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CP (INTC) -0.20
-0.88 22.40 
NASDAQ II0 TR (QQQQ) +0.73 +0.31 42.52 
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU) +6.95 +0.20 3.08 
IVANHOE ENERGY (IVAN) 
-2.43 -0.07 2.81 YAHOO INC (YHOO) -2.42 -0.85 34.33 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND +0.66 +0.30 45.49 10-YEAR NOTE +0.90 +0.39 43.79 5-YEAR NOTE +0.96 +0.41 43.15 3-MONTH BILL -0.12 -0.05 42.42 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.94 67.19 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) + 14.50 559.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.83 82.55 
Excha Rates 
YEN 
115.5400 EURO 
0.8265 POUND 
0.5683 
IN BRIEF 
Shareholder group is against J&J 
BOSTON -!\ proxy advisory firm is rec­ommending Guidant Corp. shareholders reject Johnson & Johnson's latest buyout proposal, a move that comes as J&J weighs whnthor to sweeten its offer for the medical dnvien maker once again to trump Guidant's l'avornd suitor of the moment, Boston Seinntific Corp. 
The Massachusetts company owes its cur­ront front-runner status in part to Abbott Lahoratorins Inc., a third-party player whoso otTer of cash and other assistance to lwlp Boston Scientific go after Guidant is funling speculation that the new allies could themselves become merger partners some­day. 
I nsti tu tiona! Shareholder Services, a 21­ynar-old firm that holds a virtual monopoly on advising shareholders on proxy votes and governance issues, on Wednesday issued a recommendation against J&J's bid ahead of Guidant shareholders' scheduled Jan. 31 vote. 

Stocks climb with an upbeat outlook 
NEW YORK -Stocks turned higher Thursday and regained most of the ground they lost in the previous session following a bright first-quarter outlook from semiconduc­tor maker Advanced Micro Devices Inc. and upgrades of oil services stocks. _ 
i\MD's forecast heartened tech investors who were spooked Wednesday by disappointing earnings forecasts from Intel Corp. and Yahoo Inc. Since semiconductors form the guts of much high-tech equipment, /\MD is seen as a bellwether and its outlook was enough to make invostors overlook a dimmer forecast from i\ppln Computer Inc. 
"l'nopln an~ happy that the Intel bad news didn't translate to other semiconductor stocks," said Hobert Strend, portfolio manager of Nortlwrn Trust Snloet Equity Fund in Chicago. 
Investors also clHwrPd oil serviens company Schlumbnrgnr Ltd.'s announcement of a 2-for-1 stock split and Morgan Stanlny's upgrades of oil snrvicos businnssns, including llalliburton Co. and Bakor llughns Inc. 
Tlw Dow Jonns industrial average addnd 2;,.s;,, or 0.24 pnmmt. to 10,880.71. 



Google Inc. clashes with feds 
A popular search engine rebuffs the White House's demands to view request history 
Associated Press 
SAN FHANCISCO Google Inc. is rnbufling the Bush administration's demand for a pep,k at what millions of people have been looking up on the Internet's leading sp,arch engine -a request that underscores the potential f'or online databasp,s to become tools of the govnrnment. 
Mountain View-based Google has refused to corn­ply with a White !louse sub­ponna first issued last sum­mer, prompting U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzalns this week to ask a federal judge in San Jose for an order to force a han­dover of' the requnsted records. 
The government wants a list all requp,sts nnternd into Google's search engine dur­ing an unspecified single week -a breakdown that could conceivably span tens of millions of queries. In addition, it sPeks 1 million randomly selected Web addresses from various Google databases. 
In court papnrs that the San Jose Mercury News reported on after seeing thPm Wednesday, the Bush administration depicts the information as vital in .its effort to restore online child protection laws that have been struck down by the 
U.S. Supreme Court. our daily lives that many Social Security informa­spokeswoman Mary Osako 
Google competitor Yahoo people probably contact tion, said Pam Dixon, said Thursday. "In our Inc., which runs the Google more often than executive director f'or the opinion, this is not a priva­Internet's second-most used they do their own mother," World Privacy Forum. cy issue." search engine, confirmed said Thomas Burke, a San "This is exactly the kind Microsol't Corp. MSN, thn Thursday that it had com­Francisco attorney who of thing we have been No. 3 search engine, plied with a similar govern­has handled several worrying about with deelined to say whetlwr it ment subpoena. prominent cases involving search engine for some even received a similar 
Although the government privacy issues. time," Dixon said. "Google subpoena. "MSN works says it isn't seeking any data "Just as most people should be commended for closely with law enforce­that ties personal informa­would be upset if the gov­fighting this." ment ollicials worldwidP to tion to search requests, the ernment wanted to know Other search engines assist them when request­subpoena still raises serious how much you called your already have complied ed," thP company said in a privacy concerns, experts mother and what you with similar subpoenas statement. said, especially considering talked about, they should issued by the Bush admin­As the lntPrnet's domi­recent revelations that the be upset about this, too." istration, according to nant smtrch engine, Googlp, White House authorized The content of search court documents. The has built up a valuable eavesdropping on domestic request sometimes contain cooperating search storehouse of information civilian communications information about the per­engines weren't identified. that "makes it a very after the Sept. 11 attacks son making the query. Yahoo stressed that it attractive target for law without obtaining court For instance, it's not didn't reveal any personal enforcement," said Chris approval. unusual for search information. "We are rig­lloofnagle, senior counsel 
"Search engines now play requests to include names, orous defenders of our for the Electronic Privacy such an important part in medical information or users' privacy," Yahoo Information CPnter. 

Computer error causes confusion 
ple, as in the case of AMR, up $1.84 ed after the close of the market, were 
Associated Press 
instead of 16 cents. not affncted by the problem. 
The errors created the potential for Nasdaq is responsible for reporting NEW YORK -Shares of AMR Corp. investors using the erroneous informa­NYSE-listed stock trades to a consoli­closed up 16 cents at $20.55 Thursday. tion in deciding on a stock trade -dated listing service so investors can Or were they up $1.84? someone seeing AMR up $1.84 could sec the latest price for a given stoek, A computer glitch at the Nasdaq wonder whether the money-losing air­whether it was traded on the floor of 
Stock Market left erroneous stock price line's fortunes have improved, for the NYSE or through Nasdaq's eornput­swings on major online financial news example. ers. Web sites and brokerage sites all day Nasdaq spokeswoman Bethany Dup, to the com putp,r Prrors, howev­Thursday. While nearly impossible to Sherman said the errors were confined er, individual investors using popular assess the full extent of the damage, to NYSE-listed stocks, which brokPrs financial sites like MSN Money or the technical snafu ereated incorrect and institutions can trade on Nasdaq's Yahoo Financn worn seeing inaecuratn pricn changes for as many as 1,487 electronic platforms as wPII as on th1~ price changes Thursday. Customers of stocks listed on the New York Stock floor of the Big Board. Sherman said online brokerages E-Tradn and Charles ExehangP. the stoek market fixed the computer Schwab also saw nrronnous stock 
Somp,one rolying on Wnb sitPs for glitch, and was working with its ven­movnmnnts on those eompanins' home stock data on Thursday got the eorreet dors to correct stoek price changes. pages, though it was undnar wlwtlwr priee of tho stock in the current mar­She added that stock indexes and loggnd-in eustomnrs got thn samn ket, but the wrong change-for exam-mutual fund net assp,t values, eomput-nrrors. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Friday, January 20, 2006 
Election 
continued from page 1 
process she called frustrating and eumbersome. 
"I feel that the add-drop process is very ineflicient." Mcllduff said. "Currently if you want to add or drop a course you have to have not only the pro(()ssor sign off but also the head of the department." 
Shropshire said hf)r first priority would be to tighten student gov­m·nment and clarify officers' roles. She said she intends to provide guidance on details such as how to run a formal meeting. 
"A lot of people this year had no idea what they were doing," Shropshire said. "It probably isn't just a produc:t of this year. It prob­ably has been building f(>r a long time." 
Shropshire also said she would modify Board of Governance (BOG) meetings to incnmse their efficiency. 
"I think some people have a rea­son they joined BOG, and they have some things they want to get done ... One thing [I would change] would be limiting the number of questions that go on during the co-sponsorship [pro­posals]," Shropshire said. "There have been many times when it has gone over and people are sitting there not really interested." 
When asked about how she would manage any conflict that arose between herself and Siefert, Mcllduff said she would address it openly and directly. 
"Even if it is goingto Dalloway's and having a cup of coffee and saying what my pet peeve is with Maggie and what her pet peeve is with me," Mclldutf said. 
Both Mcllduff and Davis high­

lighted their work with Volunteers 
in Support of Admission (VISA) ­
Davis is president and Mclldulf is 
a volunteer -as evidence of their 
efforts to address the issue of 
enrollment at the College. 
While giving tours to high school 
seniors, Davis said, she is often 
asked about the relationship 
between Saint Mary's and Notre 
Dame. 

"What I tell them is that Notre Dame is across the street if they want it, but Saint Mary's is it<> own family and its own community, and we take care of each other," Davis said. "Even though Notre Dame is a great school, Saint ·Mary's is just as great and it always been just as great. We are 
just left out sometimes." 
Interaction with Notre Dame 
has long been important to the 
College and .will continue to be so 
in the future, Seifert said. 
"We are the sister school of 
Notre Dame whether there are 
girls at Notre Dame or not," 
Seifert said. "We have to remem­
ber we are Saint Mary's and we 
take pride in that, but we. need to 
stay connected with [Notre 
Dame]." 

If elected president, Mcllduff 
said she hopes to reach out to stu­
dents and be a visible presence on 
campus -somnthing she wished 
she emphasized more as vice 
president during the past year. 
When asked how she would 
address issues of diversity, such as 
last year's Pride Week T-shirt, 
Mclldulf said she would default to 
the best resources on campus. 
"I would look to the Student 
Diversity Board, the president of 
SOB is best able to handle it ... I 
would also turn to Terri Johnson 
[in] the Office of Multicultural 
Affairs. She is great and she 
[comes] from both sides of the 
issue," Mclldulf said. 
In one of the more provocative questions posed, the candidates were asked to comment on their opponents' strengths and critique their weaknesses. Mcllduff and Shropshire offered only compli­ments, however, lauding each other's dedication to the College. 
"Amanda is a very passionate person," Mcllduff said. "She is passionate about student govern­ment and constantly puts in long hours." 
Shropshire praised Mcllduff's outgoing naturn. 
"Susan is very personable ... lt is probably onn of her best quali­ties," Shropshire followed. "She doesn't hold back on getting to know people and people's issues." 
During the meeting Shropshire and Davis reiterated their deter­mination to address the "little things" on campus such as laundry prices and lounge furni­ture. They also pledged to take on a big student complaint, parking. 
"We want to get the parking ticket issue handled," Shropshire said. "A lot of people have been complaining about how many tickets they have been getting for parking somewhere for five min­utes." 
When asked how she would determine or define a successful term, Mcllduff said such judgment would ultimately have to be made in hindsight. 
"I would look back just to see if our main goals were accom­plished," Mcllduff said. "If I feel I have tried my hardest, I would feel as though I had done a suc­cessful job." 
Voting will take place Monday on Prism from 8 a.m. to midnight. Results will be released Tuesday morning. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 


Jolie children w-ill legally become Pitt's 

AP 
A Santa Monica court granted Angelina Jolie's request Thursday for her two children to take Brad Pitt's name. 
Associated Press 
SANTA MONICA, Calif'. ~ A judge granted a request Thursday by Angelina Jolie to change the names of her two children to reflect that Brad Pitt intends to become their adoptive father. 
"The court granted the name change," lawyer Evan Spiegel, who represents Jolie, told reporters outside court. He did not take questions. 
Neither Jolie nor Pitt, who co­starred in the film "Mr. & Mrs. Smith," attended the hearing. 
The names of the children will become Zahara Marley Jolie-Pitt and Maddox Chivan Jolie-Pitt. Zahara celebrated her first birthday on Jan. 8. Maddox, a boy, is 4. 
Superior Court Judge Linda Lefkowitz approved the motion during a closed hearing about a month after lawyers for the 30­ynar-old actress filed the paper­work. 
Pitt's publicist, Cindy Guagenti, said on Jan. 11 that Jolie is preg­nant with Pitt's child. 
The 42-year-old actor accom­panied Jolie when she went to Ethiopia in July to adopt Zahara. 
In 2002, Jolie adopted Maddox in Cambodia where she filmed "Lara Croft: Tomb Raider." 
Pitt and Jennifer Aniston were divorced last October after 4 1/2 years of marriage. 
He has denied Jolie was behind the split, and for months the couple did not publicly acknowledge their relationship despite increasingly frequent sightings together. 
Jolie, who won an Oscar for her supporting role in 1999's "Girl, Interrupted," is divorced from Billy Bob Thornton and Jonny Lee Miller. 

A specLClL TVtt:lV~-~ you to our Corport:lte spoV~-sors! 
PLatinum 
Citigroup, Deloitte, Ernst &Young, General Electric, Goldman Sachs &Co, Johnson &Johnson, JP Morgan, KPMG, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Target, &UBS 
c:;oL~ 

Procter & Gamble 
siLver 
EDS, Hewlett-Packard, Talbots &The Vanguard Group 
TVtt:lV~-~ !jOU for !jOUr support Cl111-d COVVtltlA.LtVVteV~-t to DLversLttj. 
The Diversity Reception 
is a networking event designed to allow students to connect and build relationships with organizations that embrace and promote diversity. 
Faculty and Staff are encouraged to attend! 
The Diversity Reception Noon-2:30pm precedes Winter Career and Internship Fair 4pm-8pm at the Joyce Center. 
Students who R.S.V.P. by January 24th will receive 25 free personalized business cards. To R.S.V.P. visit The Career Center website! Click on "undergraduates" or "graduates", click "Diversity" and hit the "Diversity Reception" shamrock! 


~--~-----­
Friday, January 20, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Program and the International junction with several other depart­ing her years at Notre Dame, said based on the individual. Studies Oflice schedule meetings ments on campus, L<; organizing an it can be difficult for a student to "It's based on the individual and

Abroad 
with returning students to gain International Career Workshop to re-acclimate him or herself to liv­ha<; thL<; individual traveled in the 

feedback and provide a forum for be held Feb. 11 in the Hesburgh ing in America. past, has this individual moved
continued from page 1 
student'> to talk about their experi­Center. "I think that the culture shock around a lot when they've h'Town 
ences abroad. Bays said she recently sent when you are coming back can be up?" she said. "The grnat thing largest study-abroad program, Anne llayes, program coordina­London Program returnees an e­just as great Las when you go]," about the Counseling Centnr is with morn than 130 student.'> each tor for the study abroad programs mail that mentioned these Hayes said. "Generally, if you have that we see a spectrum of issues, semester -said information pro­in Toledo, Spain; Santiago, Chile; resources and events, and the integrated yourself to a host cul­from mild to severe. If [someone[ vided through the orientation and B.io de Janeiro, Brazil said she London Program's tea also serves ture, you see things through a dif­ha<; a history of depression or anx­handbook and orientation sessions met Wednesday evening with her as a debriefing opportunity to "get ferent set of eyes ... It's only natu­iety, then re-entry difficulties can helps students beeome aware of student<; returning from Spain and students back together to activate ral to experience some re-entry exacerbate some of that stuff." the dill'erences they will experi­will meet early next week with her social support groups -their shock upon your return." Pitale said students sometimes ence in London. student<; from Chile and Brazil. friends." discuss difficulties in communieat­
"We do preparn people ... for "Every program has debriefing "We have a debriefing for stu­Counseling Center steps In ing with friends or family who dillcrences in legal issues ... cul-sessions," Hayes said. "(We also] dents [on] Parliamentary intern­Swati Pitale, staff psychologist at have not been abroad, as well as tural difl(mmces ... in some ways have an evaluation sent out to stu­ships, experiential learning proj­the University Counseling Center, some identity confusion as a result how to stand back and observe," dents [returning from abroad[ ... ects and volunteer opportunities," said the Center used to provide a of their new experiences. she said. "(We try] to take the edge There L'> a new question this year she said. "A side purpose of it is weekly support groups for stu­"Frustration with cultural values oil' of it [getting adjusted to living asking about re-entry and what getting students back together to dents returning from abroad, but or norms, when you have gone in London I ... to make the process services students would like to see talk about their experiences and that they are not currently being abroad to an environment that is as smooth a<; possiblP so they can provided." difficulties. [Debriefing] is partially offered. . .. in some ways diametrically foeus on the social issues." Hayes said she is currently to get feedback but also an oppor­"It's not that we are not interest­opposite to where you are now, 
Bays said the preparation is not working on a handbook with arti­tunity for students to get together ed in possibly pursuing this in the you are going to note that," Pita.le confined to campus, as London cles to assist students with the so they are not alone." future, but it had more to do with said. "What I note more is rela­Prohrram students also receive a transition from America to their While the London Program used the schedules for students. We tionships with family and friends, separation orientation once they host country and vice-versa and to hold even more events for started the support group a<; soon having friends not understanding arrive in London. that the Office of International returning students, such as teas as students re-entered the Notre fully what your experience has 
"They address some of these Studies does "as much as we can" for Junior Parents Weekend and Dame community from being been ... Sometimes feeling a dis­(cultural[ L<;sues, along with safety to help students facing re-entry graduation and trips to Actors abroad, and there is something connect with family and friends issues, and are given a walking difficulties. from the London Stage produc­about wrapping your brain around and finding a way to negotiate tour of the neighborhood," she However, Hayes said that the tions, Bays said budget cuts have that," she said. "I think there is them [is part ofcounseling]." said. Office of International Studies, its meant the elimination of these something about starting that Pitale stressed that students 
Student'> live together in four or program coordinators in particu­opportunities. group at that time that student'> don't need to feel like they are fac­six-person flat<;, and although spe­lar, might not be the first resource Bays said some students have are more focused on more impor­ing severe problems before com­cific rooms are single-sex, the that students who need to talk also joined a student advisory tant things. By the time that a stu­ing to the Counseling Center. entire building houses both male about re-entry difficulties use upon council, a group that helps in dent realizes we have a support "It's a continuum and we see and female student.'>. A<; a result, their return. recruiting London Program stu­group, they've found ways to man­everybody, and everybody L'> wel­Bays said students can have an "It's hard because students are dents but also meets to talk about age." come," she said. "You don't need especially diffieult time transition­at different levels," she said. their experiences while in London Pita.le said the group may begin to have severe psychopathology to ing back to living on-campus in "Some want to process [their and offer feedback and support. again in the future and that more come here. You can just be having Notre Dame's single-sex dorms. experience abroad] ... and some "We offer students a lot of information needs to be known a tough time and needing some­
"Th11 nxperience with parietals, get back into their life at Notre opportunities to talk," she said. about when students feel would be one to work through it [with]." living in flat<;, cooking for them­Dame and don't have as much But transition difficulties may be the best time for a group to begin. She also empha<;ized that seeing selvns . . . and gendnr relationships time or energy to process." indicators of positive change. Both "Initially when students get back students with re-entry difficulties are very different," Bays said. Hayes said Campus Ministry Bays and Hayes stressed that fac­to Notre Dame, there are so many absolutely does not strain staff "Hnlationships between mal11s and plans a Mass and a dinner for all ing transition difficulties often things on their plate that they time or resources. females is more collegial [in returnees and International means student<; have experienced aren't even thinking about it [the And experiencing difficulties rc­London!, and they see each other Studies Program staff, which will significant personal growth support group)," she said. "It's transitioning to Notre Dame is per­a<; hallmatns." occur Monday. abroad. really two to three weeks, a month fectly normal, Pita.le said. 
Bays said moving from an urban She also said the International "Getting people to acknowledge into their time here, when to get "I almost worry about people dty like London to a smaller city Studies Program holds an annual when they are having problems is back in the routine they realize ... when they don't have a reaetion to likn South Bnnd can be "especially photo contest that presents a sign of emotional maturity," Bays something feels different." coming baek, when everything disorienting," as can differences returnees with a forum to share said. "They are not the person However, students facing re­feels just fine," she said. "It is between classes in London and their experiences through photog­they were before ... Re-entry entry issues have occasionally expected that there will be re­thosn at Notre Dame. raphy. problems can be a sign of emo­been seen through the Counseling entry difficulties." 
For students contemplating tional health. There was an invest­Center via individual counseling Support services offered careers overseas, Hayes said the ment made." sessions, Pita.le said. The number Contact Joe Trombello at Bays said both the London Helen Kellogg Institute, in con-Hayes, who studied abroad dur-and intensity of sessions varies jtrombel@nd.edu 



gyour goals, 

UBS is a global financial powerhouse because of the ideas, skills, and commitment to excellence of our employees. We offer talented 
individuals a world of opportunities. A diverse culture of mutual respect and support gives all our employees the oppurtunity to excel. 
Our world-class training prepares you to be successful. Your skills and ambition are recognized from day one. 
RESUME DROP REMINDER 
Investment Banking: January 26, 2006 
Please apply via Career Services. 

UBS is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity in its workplace. (M/F/DN) 
You&Us *UBS
Wealth Global Asset Investment Management Management Bank 


THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, January 20, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
Tin! lnthpendnu, Daily New:tpap#l' &rvi"f Nom Darru and Saint Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van· Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively a~ possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
QUI!stions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The O~rver (USPS '599 2.-4000) is publi3hcd Monday through Friday acept during exam and va«tion periods. A subscription 10 The Ob~ervc:r is $100 for om: academic year: $55 for one .semem:r. 
The Ob!!t'rvtr is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send 01ddr~ correcdon.s w: Notre D~me, IN 46556·0779 Tltc Observer Periodical postll@:e paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0n9 
The Observer is .~: m<:mber ofthe A~ociatcd Prw. All reproduction rights .sre r~rvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Graphics Maddie Hanna Kelly MacDonald Karen Langley Sports 

Jenny Hames Ken Fowler Megan O'Neil Jack Thornton Nicole Zook Jay Fitzpatrick Kelly Meehan Scene Viewpoint Chris McGrady Caroline Murphy 
The Observer endorses Shropshire-Davis 
Saint Mary's students will be asked to choose Monday between two of the strongest student body presidentiaVvice presidential tickets in recent memory. 
Their difficult decision is made even harder by comparable records in leadership roles, and some tickets overlap in cam­paign goals. 
Susan Mcllduff and Maggie Seifert largely represent a con­tinuation of Saint Mary's student government as it stands now -Mcllduff, currently vice president, has said she respects current president Kellye Mitros' record and hopes to build upon it. 
O Th
That record, however, is somewhat mixed. oserver support for SOB, The Observer believes she can apply the same skills to decreasing apathy and raising the profile of stu­dent government at large. 
At an institution where at times politeness seems to be val­ued above all else, Shropshire has repeatedly proven she will not hesitate to play an aggressive role in the face of a con­tentious decision. 
As admissions commissioner, Davis already has a working relationship with Vice President for Enrollment Management Dan Meyer and an understanding of one of the top concerns at 
the College. 
. In recent months, Meyer has called on Saint 
Mitros' administration failed to challenge the Mary's students to help with recruiting efforts, administration's decision to drop Pride Week, and as student body vice president, Davis will be 

Editorial
nor did student leaders communicate the rea­sons for the decision to the student body. 
This lack of initiative, along with a sometimes-unprofession­al tone at Board of Governance meetings, has lowered respect for student government in the eyes of many students. 
The leadership record of Amanda Shropshire and Annie Davis, however, could not be clearer and makes them the stronger candidates for president and vice president. The pair pack a potent one-two punch with their specialties in diversity issues and recruiting and enrollment. 
Shropshire has stated her first priority as president would be to restructure and tighten Saint Mary's student govern­ment, and her record at the helm of the Student Diversity Board has proven her capable of that. 
She took what was a ghost of an organization and gave it life, defining the responsibilities of its committee members and sponsoring provocative events that drew increased atten­dance. Based on Shropshire's visible success with increasing 
able to help facilitate the process. 
While the Shropshire/Davis ticket does not enjoy the same glossy, businesslike image of Mcllduff and Seifert, they ultimately seem more willing to pull on the gloves and fight on behalf of Saint Mary's students. Saint Mary's is an institution built for students, and Shropshire and Davis will ensure the student voice is heard and understood. 
The victor of this tough matchup will exit the election rink and face the challenge of leading the student body in a time of transition for the College. They must work to unite divided opinions on tough issues facing the creation of a unified image for Saint Mary's. Shropshire and Davis have what it takes "to get down and dirty" to spark a change that will maintain tra­ditions with a twist, boost enrollment and modernize the College image. 
The Observer endorses Amanda Shropshire and Annie Davis for 2006-07 Saint Mary's student body president and vice president. 

Honoring a genuine Notre Dame hero 
For each generation, the road of life winds past a precious few who touch oth­ers in some valuable way. Many of those unique, noble men and women of stellar character serve as great teachers and role models at educa­tional institutions. They defme the fabric of their time, con­tribute to everyday life and are the pil­lars upon which eras are distinguished. Notre Dame has seen its share of what this column called "angels" of our time. While they have enriched the Notre Dame community throughout its history, surely more who have yet to walk the campus will follow for future generations yet to come. 
Typically, it is a sad moment when we learn of the passing of such campus icons. It was particularly difficult for this writer to learn in a note with a Christmas card that one of Notre Dame's giants is battling an aggressive form of brain can­cer. Rex Rakow, Director of the Notre Dame Security Police, has transformed a small campus security office into an extensive protective operation. His atten­tion towards years of public crime fight­ing is now focused on a personal struggle. 
Rakow is a relatively quiet man, the type of person who remains calm in a cri­sis, but who can respond when necessary with the power of a giant. He is a man of vast common sense who cherishes the spirit of the law while deciding on the application of the letter of the law. It is not uncommon for Rakow to understand the stupidity of people's actions while shaking his head in disbelief. He displays 

Gary J. Caruso 
CapitolComments 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A man travels the world over in search ofwhat he needs and returns home to find it. " 
George Moore English novelist 
the perfect personality for a law enforce­ment manager in today's society, but could have been a successful sheriff in a frontier town or an "Untouchable" in Chicago. 
During the Reagan presidency when I worked on Capitol Hill, Rakow attended a law enforcement conference in Washington and came to visit me at the 
U.S. House of Representatives. It was a pleasant surprise, for I was the one who usually popped unannounced into his office while on campus for an alumni meeting or football weekend. Rex has a natural ability to make anyone feel wel­come, even when he is away from the university. It was the first time in my many years of unannounced tr:avel to Notre Dame that I felt less like the noisy uncle who overstays his many visits but welcomed, almost as a part of Rakow's campus family. 
This is a difficult time for Rakow and his immediate, as well as his extended family. While they search for newly emerging medical procedures in hopes of a future remission, Rakow occupies his office and performs his duties each day. Only families facing such situations can explain their enormous stress and trails of faith. 
Last year, Pope John Paul II demon­strated to the world how to gracefully face mortality. We are on this earth only as long as we need be to learn our life's lesson~ and set examples for others. While society seeks answers for longer, healthy lives, Catholics are reminded that Christianity was not meant to be comfort­able. 
Our Church teaches us that faith is not based on God correcting the ills of the just while punishing the sins of the wicked. Too often, Americans -especially tele­vangelists with their slick gospel hours and misinterpreted, self-serving biblical quotations -appeal to our greed rather than our spirjtuality. John Paul II's afllic­tion -debilitating presumably one of the holiest among us -reminds us that one of the most primary lessons of life is actu­ally death. 
For those of us who know Rakow, we would rather he, like John Paul II, could live a healthy life well into retirement and eventually pass to a heavenly reward peacefully in his sleep. Ironically, that may be the least spiritual of ways to gen­uinely know our inner self, faith or pur­pose of life. Without facing the shock, despair or disbelief of a debilitating con­dition, we cannot focus on our faith with such clarity. 
My thoughts, prayers and best wishes are with Rakow and his family. He, like so many of his fellow Notre Dame angels before him, have touched many lives in a valuable way. During this time, I feel helpless. I am once more an outsider for not sharing a eommon pain or fear with Rex. I can only admire his strength, his poise and his fortitude. 
Events happen for a reason. The friends we make, the family we share and those we admire are primary elements of our journey. But the purity of our hearts is the measurement of our success. Rakow's heart is as genuine as any. It humbles me to be counted among his friends. Rex, you are a genuine hero. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a polit­ical strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column will appear every other Friday. He can be con­tacted at hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Courage is not simply one of the virtues but the form of every virtue at the testing point, which means at the point of highest reality. " 
C.S. Lewis Novelist 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Friday, January 20. 2006 page II 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Hidden danger off-campus 
Heading the headlines from the Jan. 19 edition of The Observer about ofT-campus break-ins (namely at Kramnr propertins) did not surprise me. However, Mark Kramer's selective memory of prior incidents did. The Obsnrver quoted him as saying something to the effect that he "could count on one hand how many times this has happened" in all of his years of renting houses to students in high-crime neighbor­hoods. 
I can count on two hands (and maybe a foot) how many times it happened during the 2000-01 school year on Kramer properties alone. At my house on Cedar Street, we had one break-in and a man show up at a party, yelling at students and revealing his handgun. I found a security guard beaten and his handgun stolen in front of my house on my way to a party at Lafayette. 

My girlfriend lived on St. Pete's Street and thieves broke in three times that year. Across the street from them, a porch full of their neighbors was robbed at gunpoint. I could go on naming other crimes at other houses on other streets, but the point is that these are not isolated incidents (as Kramer wants all of you underclassmen to believe). 
I certainly do not blame Kramer for these crimes, but it makes me upset (enough to write this letter anyway) that he tries to make it seem as if off-cam­pus crime is a rarity. Kramer wants all of his future teasers to sign binding contracts with the reassuring statistic that at most, five break-ins have ever hap­pened on his watch. To put it simply, Kramer is mis­leading his tenants. Kramer once assured me that our neighborhood was safe and I believed him. I wanted to party and live the good lifn off-campus like everybody else, but I had absolutely no concept of the real dangers that existed south of campus. II is "see no evil, speak no evil, hear no evil" charade is irre­sponsible and needs to be exposed. 
When those of you who rent from Kramer a year or two from now (and you will, because he owns all of the houses), be wary of the dangers in your new neighborhoods. When Kramer furrows his brow, purses his lips, holds his open hand up and tells you, "This is how many times we've ever had problems at my properties," ask him how many times each linger represents. 
Ted Higgins 
class of 2001 
Firefighrcr/Parana·dic 
Jan. 19 
U-WIRE 

iPod trulllps social interaction 
The holiday season has come and gone. After all the leftovers have bmm thrown out and th11 relatives have returned horne, only one thing rnmains: the iPod. 
Today it is dillicult to look anywhere without seeing or hearing about one of Apple Computer's top-of-the-line digital media players. 
Whether it is in advertis11ments, in the news, walk­ing around campus or now even in the courtroom, iPods are everywhere. And why wouldn't they be? 
Aeeprding to an article in USA Today, Apple Computer has sold a total of 42 million iPods since first introducing the product in 2002. Of this total, 32 million iPods were sold in 2005, 14 million of which were sold during the 2005 holiday sales quarter alone. 
That's a lot of iPods, and the sales show no signs 
Taylor Copeland 
Bowling Green News The UniversityofBowlingGreen 

of slowing down. Instead, Apple continues to increase demand of the 
iPod by releasing newer models that are faster and have even more 

capabilities. 
The newest iPods on the market arc the Nano and the video iPod. Now, not only ean people download endless hours of their favorite songs onto thnir iPods, but they can also download their favorite tele­vision shows too. 
But the iPod is just one of many olectronic devices that have seem­ingly unlimited abilities these days. Cell phones, PDA<> and eornputers are also among the machines able to perform a number of tasks never hofore thought possible. Oh, the teehnology. 
Whiln such advancnrnents in technology are important, they do eome at a cost. As a result of deviees sueh as the iPod, conversation and human int1~raction am suffering. It is easy to see how communi­cation has bnen drastically alternd in just the last decade. 
Today, it is eommon to see two friends walking across campus to dass with one another. Sadly, it is just as common to see the two not immersed in conversation, but rathnr, both busy listening to their iPods. 
Is it that hard to take out those little, white ear buds and actually talk to someone'? It must be harder that it would appoar, because I don't know how many times J'vn seen people talking to others with one earphone in. This is often typical of people who are ordering fast li•od, and it's actually quite rude. 
Can't you take about 30 seconds to give the fast food employee your full attention while ordering that number one with cheese? 
It's frustrating to try to get an order from someone who js only half listening to you. Meredith Dixon, a junior at the University, works in dining services at the Union and agrees. 
"I never fnellike I have their full attention because they're so absorbed in their tunes," Meredith said. Still, others would dis­agrne.When asked about iPods, sophomore Adam Hosengarten said, "I don't think they're that bad." 
But if you ask me, additional advancements in technology will only continue to isolate us unless we do something about it. If you dis­agree just answer one question for me. When is the last time you sent an instant message to your roommate who was only sitting a mere 10 feet away? 
While teehnolo1,ry is wonderful, we can't let it completely replace our personal communication with others around us. If we do, we may start thinking like a dassmate of mine who was overheard saying, "Sodalization is so pre-9/11." There's nothing wrong with owning an il'od. We just need to make sure that we dont get caught up in the iPod epidomie. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 18 edition ofthe Bowling Green News. the daily publication of the University ofBowling Green. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Slow and steady still best 
After the holidays, we are all a little bit more round and jolly-especially in the waistline. Hey, it's hard to say no to a second helping of Aunt Bertha's famous turtle cheesecake-with extra turtle. So you wanna lose the love han­dles? From A (Anorex) to Z (Zantrex), there are thou-~aura sands of diet pills to aid you. Wilkinson 
But just around the corner The Louisiana at the Pennington Biomedical State Research Center, there is a Universit!/. pill in the works called APD Daily Revezlle 356 to help you lose weight without diet and exercise. At least that's the claim made by its manufacturer, Arena Pharmaceuticals. The main goal of APD 356 is to regulate body weight by regulating appetite. Inside this little white pill is a small molecule that helps regulate hunger and metabolism. 
But is this drug going to be safe? Sadly, it often takes years, if not decades, to fully comprehend the full effect of new drugs. Remember Fen­Phen? Many over-the-counter pills are not FDA approved. They can be sold without studies as long as they contain ingredients already in food supply. 
Another danger of some diet pills that inhibit the absorption of fats are gastrointestinal side effects. This includes fun oil spots on your draw­ers, lovable infectious diarrhea, the popular rec­tal pain and fabulous oily stool. Mmmm. But many people simply want the weight gone. Who cares about if my heart valves leak in ten years? I just want to look uber-hot in this bathing suit! 
And the obesity market knows this. 
Advertisers know the common person wants results now. But that's America, isn't it'? People prefer fast food instead of meals from scratch, Cliffs Notes instead of the novel and eye lifts instead of wearing sunscreen. We need our quick fix. 
Why should dieting be any different? The weight loss industry promises weight loss is sim­ple. Just buy this product and you will not have change a thing! It can be donn instantly and effortlessly. 
The producers of these weight loss tools are tapping into the American mentality of the quick fix with their miracle weight loss drugs, fad diets, fitness drinks and even soaps that promise to "penetrate to the subcutaneous layer to assist in the elimination of fat layers." Only one thing works: lose weight and take iwfewer calories than you use by becoming more physically active or by eating less. Okay, line, everyone knows all that. But it seems the gap between what we know and what we do is bigger than Ilasselholf in Germany. 
There simply are no quick fixes. To lose weight is not easy. It takes persistence, habit changns, sweat, hard work and pnrhaps a few David Banner jams to get the heart racin'. You can borrow my iPod if you need to, okay? 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 18 edi­tion ofthe Daily Reveille, the daily publication of Louisiana ,<.,'tate University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Small price to pay for saving a life 
What if someone told you that you can save the lives of people around the world within an hour? What if you were told that you could lit­erally be that beacon of life for someone in a life or death situation, and you can be that bea­con right before your 2:30 class? Staff 
It's possible. Editorial According to the oflicial Web site of the Hed Cross' Bowling Green 
News
blood donation branch (givelife.org), someone is in The University need of blood every two sec­ofBowling 
Green
onds. To quote the Web site, "that's a lot of blood." 
But the Web site puts a damper on the read­er's mood by noting that only one out of 20 pos­sible donors give blood in a given year. So after the ineligible donors are weeded out of the tar­get population, only five percent are willing to help. 
Even worse, certain metropolitan areas of the country (including Cleveland) have ll' shortage of blood and aren't always able to help to meet the needs of those who require it. 
There is a large number of people who are eligible to give blood, but whatever their reser­vations are, won't step up to the plate and do their part. 
Perhaps the greatest reservation is that the American population sulrers from aichrnopho­bia, or the fear of needles (and other pointy objects). And we're not condemning aiehmo­phobics, either; conquering your fear of having a needle stuck into your arm is a big step. 
But two seconds of your pain could be the dif­ference between happiness and despair for a family. You will instantly become a savior (liter­ally) to someone who will be forever in your gratitude without ever knowing your name. 
When the blood drive worker attempts to put a needle in your arm, focus on thn countries or prime ministers (or anything else that you can) to take your mind on the impending agony. Memorize all of the countries in Africa or all the prime ministers in Canada. You'll hardly even notice that the nendle has penetrated your skin. 
Whatever your fear, whatever it takes, over­coming your reservations ean mean so much to so many people As a national community, we rely on one another for things tha{ we can't do ourselves. It's encouraging that saving a life can be this easy. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 18 edi­tion of the Bowling Green News, the daily publi­cation of the University of Bowling Green. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 12 
Friday, January 20, 2006 
LEGENDS SPOTLIGHT 
Behind-the-scenes star set to rock Legends 
Dave Matthews Band accompanist Tim Reynolds has a unique brand of music 
By BOB COSTA Scene Writer 
Around the residence halls of Notre Dame, the music of Tim Reynolds is con­stantly heard as one strolls through the cluttered hallways where posters of Fox's "The O.C." and the music of Dave Matthews are ubiquitous. Yet, most stu­dents don't always pick up on who's play­ing the ingenious chord progressions heard behind Matthews' famously stacca­to rhythm guitar. Although he's often times in the background· of live shows and recordings of Matthews, Reynolds is as integral to DMB's unique sound as the vibe of "Ants Marching" and "Crash Into Me." 
Reynolds, who played with Matthews on their multi-platinum 1999 live acoustic album "Live at Luther College," is well­known for being the jam-rock's star's longtime collaborator and guitar virtuoso. He's played on almost every Dave Matthews Band album and toured as an acoustic duo with Matthews numerous times to sold-out theaters across the coun­try, but also built a stellar solo career. 
Legends will be hosting one of Reynolds' first tour stops of his winter 2006 solo tour, which will also include shows in Chicago and at college bars near schools 
profile one of the gui­tar masters of the nineties and perhaps all time. 

A longtime resident of Charlottesville, Va., Reynolds moved to Santa Fe, New Mexico in 1997, after nearly 17 years in Virginia. Though he's content in New Mexico, he said that doesn't mean he won't move again. 
"I could easily say that I could stay here forever, or leave after some time," Heynolds said. "Like anything in life, there is a progression. State to state, place to place, eventually country to country, planet to planet, universe to universe, maybe even a big bang. It's all a journey, as long as you make sure you don't let your consciousness get snuffed out." 
Reynolds recently released "Parallel Universe," a two-CO album packed with eclectic forays into industrial rock and pul­sating acoustic melodies. Featuring songs like the free-flow­ing acoustic melody "This Is How Much I Love You" and the brit­tle but pounding "Mercury Direct," it is a meshing of different styles and different sounds that brings together the best of his style while playing with Matthews with his own unique cultivation of 

sound. Photo courtesy of Erin Perri "When you create an The legendary guitarist Tim Reynolds is slated to play at Notre Dame's Legends Night Club this album, you're more into Saturday. Reynolds is a frequent guest member of the famous group the Dave Matthews Band. 

the music," Reynolds said. "The two COs on the new album are a collection of home recordings that have been kind of sitting around for awhile. It's a bunch of tunes that I've really liked listening to. In a way, 'Parallel Universe' is all over the map, just like life is all over the map. I mainly use the guitar but also things like drum 

like Penn State and the University of machines and other sonic elements so Dayton. Starting there is much con­Saturday at 10 p.m., trast."
Tim Reynolds
the show, which is The new album free for all Notre lies partly between
Where: Legends
Dame and Saint his previous elec­
When: Saturday at 10 p.m.
Mary's students, will tric guitar-based
Tickets: Free with ND/SMC/HCC ID 
album "Chaos 
View" from 2002 and his noteworthy 1993 solo debut "Stream." 
"I guess in the last five years I've been exploring the use of drum machines," Reynolds said. ".I kind of got into the pro­gramming aspect. of things and working on representing all aspects of sound. But now, I'm really focusing back on the acoustic guitar itself and exploring how many different ways I can represent a song." 
For Reynolds, the album was a lot of fun with to experiment with different parts of studio production. 
"It was full of di!Terent things, in a way like old-school Genesis and Steely Dan. It's stripped down in a way, but also features sounds from nature, even the voice of my daughter, Eura." 

Such home-grown songs and personal creation, especially with the lack of a major-label's input, has allowed Reynolds to put a sense of warmth and intimacy on many of his tunes as he takes them in so many directions that listeners lose track of the normal verse-chorus-verse paradigm. 
During the past few years Reynolds has spent most of his time professionally per­forming with his own band, TR3, and with Dave Matthews' solo project -which is often referred to as "Dave Matthews & Friends." Matthews, Reynolds, Trey Anastasio of Phish, Brady Blade and Tony Hall toured together in 2003 and 2004 to much critical acclaim, playing long, eclec­tic concerts covering everything from rare Dave Matthews Band songs to the Beatles. 
Heynolds' career began and flourished in Charlottesville, where he was a bur­geoning guitarist in the early nineties. By 1993, Heynolds was often playing acoustic sets at numerous local venues with his friend and local bartender Matthews. At that time, Reynolds was much more well­known in the region for his musicianship and Matthews thrived off playing sets with the enigmatic virtuoso. Matthews still fronted his own band, Dave Matthews Band, but spent much time with Heynolds as he honed his own distinctive guitar sound. 
As the grassroots following for Dave Matthews Band became an undeniable phenomenon, Heynolds began to carve out a role within that band that he would stick to for the rest of his career. Rather than joining DMB as a full-fledged member, Reynolds decided to help the band during their recordings and on-tour, but still hav.e his focus on his solo work and TH3. 
"My music is scattered energy; I like to rock out on the acoustic, ·reinvent the music, play the fast blues, and cover clas­sics," Heynolds said. "During the last cou­ple of years I've done an acoustic set with a half-hour on drum machine. I'm now exploring morn on the twelve-string. Back in the seventies, I first owned a twelve­string. It was simple, and then l had all this apparatus to play with. So now, I just want to challenge myself to learn more high-energy acoustic." 
Notre Damp, fans will bo able to see just how different a Tim Heynolds show can be. Don't expect Dave Matthews, but you'll definitely be in for a night of experimental songs and beloved covers to rock out with. 
Contact Bob Costa at rcostal@nd.edu 
SMC PREVIEW 
Battle of the Bands will be the first of its kind at Saint Mary's 
By LIZ HARTER Scene Writer  Bruder, the Student Activites Coordinator, sent e-mails to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and  bands] because it is a great opportunity to get their name out there," Kistka said, "The  worked with artists such as Coolio, Ben Folds and Limp Bizkit. The performers will  and, this year, Saint Mary's, put on dance marathons to help raise this money.  
Holy Cross students advertis­ winner receives studio time,  also be able to attend a  20­ "Dare to reach out your hand  
There will be  a  battle  at  ing  the  and  also  minute session with the judges  into the darkness, to take  a  
Saint Mary's Saturday night. At 6:30 p.m. in the Student  idea to t h o s e  SMC Battle of the Bands  oprms for a nationally  on Sunday, during which they will receive one-on-one food­ hand into the lig\lt. Make a dif­ference," said Francesca  
Center, four acts, two bands and two solo artists, will com­pete in the first ever Saint Mary's Battle of the Bands, sponsored by tho First Year  interest­ed. The e-m a i I asked for a CD  Where: SMC Student Center When: Saturday at 6:30 p.m. Tickets: $6 in advance and $8 at the door  touring act at the Saint Mary's Student Activities  back about their lyrics and performances. Thornbird will also be· performing at Saint Mary's on Jan. 23. The Battle of the Bands is  Johnson, president of the Class of 2009, quoting the freshman board's Riley Hospital motto. "Do it for the kids. The evening will be fun, and these children  
Board and the Residence Hall  w  i  t  h  B  o a  r  d  one  of the fundraising ideas  need all the money that they  
Association.  t  h r  e e  TOSTAL in  that will coincide with the  can get."  
The acts slated to appear are  demo songs, five bands replied  April."  Saint Mary's Dance Marathon,  One hundred percent of the  
Hobbio Hazen, Slap Bracelet  and  all  were  accepted  - All of the bands are exposed  taking place  on April 21  to  profits from Saturday night  
Suicido, Somersaults and Hyan  though one  band had to drop  to  the  Los  Angeles-based  benefit  Riley  Hospital  for  will benefit Hiley Hospital for  
Connaughton.  out due to time conflicts.  judges who will be in town for  Children in Indianapolis. Riley  Children. Tickets cost $6 in  
Although local bands also  Though the planning took  the contest.  Hospital does not turn any  advance, sold in the Student  
wanted to compete, Maura  place while no students were  "The advantages are tremen­ children away due to monetary  Center at Saint Mary's and the  
Clougherty said Saint Mary's  on campus, Class of 2009 vice  dous," Kistka said.  needs and therefore spends  LaFortune Box Office at Notre  
wanted to confine the competi­ president Pauline Kistka said  The judges include the mem­ $25 million unbudgeted every  Dame, and cost $8 at the door.  
tion to student groups.  she doesn't think that the  bers  of  the  indie  band  year. At least 68 colleges and  
During  winter  break,  break cut down on responses.  Thornbird  and  producer  Universities  including  IU,  Contact Liz Harter at  
Clougherty  and  Frances  "It was  easy to attract [the  Ulysses  Noriega,  who  has  Butler University, Ball State  eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu  

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, January 20, 2006 
page 13 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
Filtn, Television and Theatre students spread their wings 
By LIZ BYRUM 
A~sistall! Scene Ediror 
It's not very often that Notre Dame students can come together on campus to examine and admire tho collective works of a group of students. This w1wknnd, one of those rare chances arrives with the introduction of Film, Television and Theatre's 17th annual Notrn l>anw Studm1t Film Festival. 
Tlw modest beginning of this thriving festival took place in 19SS when pro­fessor Ted Mandell carne to Notre Damn to work on a graduate degree and hogan to compile the film work of FTT students. Over time, the projer.t grow out of its original location, and has found homos through tho years at the Snite Museum, llesburgh Auditorium and 
girls currently living in the hall were given a chance to play small roles in the film. 
Besides the retro '70s feel of "Fianner II all 1974," the variety of 11lms stretches through many genres, including dark comedy and documen­tary. 
"We have three professors who tnaeh produetion -Bill D1maruma, Jill Godmilow and myself. We eaeh have our own style," Mandell said. 
These differences in style shine through in the students' work -with different focuses including areas such as thematic structure and cinematog­raphy. 
"We had great freedom to make the l"ilrn we wanted to. lie was always there to offer advice and to guide us, but he accepted our pers1~nal vision~ 
and 111terests, 

most roeontly in tho I>oBartolo  Film, Television and Theatre  junior Brandon Kusz said about  
Conter  for  the  Film Festival  his time working  
Performing Arts.  with  Professor  
It is in I>I'AC's  Where: DPAC Browning Cinema  Donaruma. Kusz's  
Browning  When:  Friday at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m.  film,  titled  
Cinema  whore  Saturday at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. Sunday at  "Variable  17,"  
tlw f"ilms of tal­ 7 p.m. and 10 p.m.  which he directed  
nnted majors  FTT will be  Tickets: $6, $5 faculty/staff, $4 seniors, and $3 all students  with Elyse Allen, took the entire  

fnatured today, tomorrow and Sunday. With tho now toehnology available in the state­of-the-art thoatre. tho short films assmnblod for tho fnstival will mako an I'VIHI morP enjoyable experienee. 
As an introduction to the two-hour showeasP of film studiPs, Mandell has rrnatnd a short film eallnd "Flannor llall 1974," whieh dopicts a fictional story of Charlie Wnis' time as a student on eam pus. 
"Charlie Wnis goes to Badin llall and dm:idns to eoaeh tlwir football team," Mandoll said. Hosidonts of Badin may lw PVnn morn enthusiastie about seeing this introduction he1:ause somn of the semester to create. 
The storyline 
revolves around a man who is brainwashed into believing he loves a woman. The creation of the lilm inducted the initial writing and storyboard work, many days of Jilming and hours of editing afterwards. "Even the easiest shots would take hours to set up because there is so much equipment and it's all very heavy," Kusz said. 
One of the documentaries featurod in the festival this weekend is titled "Two Dollar Ride." The film, created by recent graduates Jan Wohrle and Lyndsey Grunewald, allows viewers to take a trip around South Bend with the taxicab driver most commonly known as "Supnr Dave" as he shuttles students from bar to bar. 


For the first time in the Notre Dame Student Film Festival's history, there is a musical on the lineup. Brittny Heinrich and Nobel Hobinette direct "Senior-etta," a lilm starring four Notre Dame singers. 
"We have a really goofy lilm and we loved getting the freedom we did to make it as silly as possible," Heinrich said of her favorite part of the making of "Senior-etta." 
Films are chosen for the StudPnt Film Festival by starting from the top of the production ladder with the most advanced elasses. The professors look for films that are the most well made and make an effort to keep the final compilation under two hours. 
"There are films that could have been in thn festival that we just didn't have time for. The film festival is really just a r.ollection of lilrns donn in our pro­duction elasses-not a compntition," Mandell said. llownver, some of tho films featured this wnnknnd might go further, being enternd into film festi­vals all over the country, when~ the creators could win awards for their work. 
With the dedication and creativity tho FTT stmllmts have put into their films, the Notrn Dame Student Film Festival should eontinun to bn a sucent>S. Tickets are available the I>I'AC box ol'f'icn at 574-631-2SOO, or by going online at www.performingarts.nd.edu. 
Contact Liz Byrum at eby~um@nd.edu 
1 Bridge' proves to be strong first pillar of trio 
Hy HRIAN DOXTADER 
A"istant Scene F.diror 
David Lean's "Tiw Bridge on tho Hivor Kwai" was tho first in a brilliant trio of lilrns that bocanw turning points in· thn history of dnema. 
Tlw 1957 film. which won tho Best l'ictun1 Academy Award, was li1llowed by J«Jh2's "Lawrence of Arabia" (undoubted­ly Lean's magnum opus) and 19(,!i's "Doctor Zhivago." While all three sharo many of tlw same tlwmos (pitting humans against a grand histori1:al ba1:kdrop with an Ppk llavor), tlw focus and relative con­rismwss of "Tlw Bridge on tho Hiver Kwai" grants it an urgency and cloar snnsn of purpose that outstrips its suceos­sors. 
"Tiw Bridge on tho Hivor Kwai" is nom­inally a war film, but its ambiguity and thPmatii: lark of rnso­lu ti on tra nsee rHI s bneomes obsessed with completing the bridge to perfection -this, he believes, will provn tho superiority of the British over the Japanese. 
Like Francis Ford Coppola's "Apocalypsn Now" two decades IaLor, "The Bridge on tho Hiver Kwai" is loss about war than it is about the efl"ecl'i of war and an exploration of obsession and madness. Nir.holson hegins as a rigidly doetrined British ollir.nr. but ends steeped in his own mania -only Shears (William lloldnn) manages to maintain any sort of pnrspoc­tive, and 1wnn he is roduced to confusion by the lilm's end. The dosing scene, rife with ambiguity, is rightfully one of the most famous in motion pietum history. 
Tho lilm is dominated by Alec Guinoss, whoso powerfully hypnotic pnrl'ormaneo is the hinge on which the picture wsts. As tho increasingly obsessive Colonel Nicholson, Guiness turns in one of tho century\ most memorablo per­

those genre limita­l'ormanees, and
The Bridge on the River Kwai 
tions. It follows certainly among British Colotwl his linest (although 
Where: DPAC Browning Cinema Nicholson (/\Inc When: Saturday at 3 p.m. r.onsiderably less 
Cuiness) and his famous than his
Tickets: $6, $5 faculty/staff, 
troops, who are portrayal of a cer­
$4 seniors, and $3 all students great pieturn. Those unfamiliar with Loan's work should lind it a grnat starting point and it is espnr.ially rneo11mwmlnd li1r thoso who only know Guiness as Obi-Wan Kenobi. 

"The Bridge on the Hiver Kwai" will bl' shown Jan. 21 at :~ p.m. in the Browning Cinema in the J)JIJ\C as part of tho PAC Classic 100. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
urHler tho thumb of Japanese prison eamp commamler Colonel Saito (Snssuo llayakawa). Saito orders Nicholson's men to build a bridge on the river Kwai (hence tho elovorly doscriptive title) that will allow for the transportation of munitions. While Nieholson originally balks at the idea, he eventually agrees and soon 
tain Jodi Knight). 
Lean's thinly veiled criticism of British ideals and ethnocon­tricity is embodied by Nicholson, and Guiness' nuanced pnrformanee elevates him into an actual character rather than a mere metaphor. 
"The Bridgo on the Hiver Kwai" is often cited as Lean's best pieture, which in turn makes it one of the linost pir.turos or all time. Tho American Film Institute dedared it tho 13th greatest !ilm of all time, and it was a runaway suceess at the Osears, winning seven statues. While most of Lean's films have withstood the test of time ("Lawrence of Arabia" and "Brief Encounter" in particular), "The Bridge on the Hiver Kwai" is among his most time­less. Though not an epic on the seale of "Lawrence of Arabia," "The Bridge on the River Kwai" is still essential viewing and a 

Friday, January 20, 2006

page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Ranked teams struggle in conference games 
Virginia shocks the Tar Heels at home, but Washington holds off Oregon State 

Associated Press 
CHAHLOTTESVILLE, Va. ­Little by little, Virginia's play­ers are understanding more and more of coach Dave Leitao's teachings, and it's starting to show. 
"Good things are happen­ing," guard J.R. Reynolds said. 
Reynolds was one of those good things Thursday night, scoring 10 of his 

16 points in the stunned 81-70 at
"Good things are 
last 11 minutes home by Miami on
happening. It's a
when the surpris­Saturday, ending ing Cavaliers used learning process a four-game win­a big run to go ning streak, and
and we're getting 
ahead for good were stymied by
better."
and then held on Virginia's interior to beat equally defense on Tyler young No. 24 Hansbrough and
J.R. Reynolds
North Carolina, 36 percent shoot­
Virginia guard 
ing.
72-68. 
"It's a learning process, and we're getting better each day," Reynolds said. 
Guard Sean Singletary, whose first season came in the difficult last season under Pete Gillen, agreed and said things should only continue to get better. 
"We're buying into what he's saying," Singletary said. "He's been preaching to us since he first stepped foot in Charlottesville. It feels like everybody is really responding to what he's saying. When it comes game time, it's really showing." 
The victory was the second in a row for the Cavaliers (9-6, 3-2 Atlantic Coast Conference), following up a 54-49 win at Virginia Tech on Sunday. 

The results, Leitao said, show the team that he knows what he's doing when insisting they play tough defense, take care of the ball and play with discipline. 
"I can talk until I'm blue in the face, but these proving points happen, fortunately or unfortunately, when you win or lose games," he said. 
North Carolina (10-4, 2-2) lost its second straight. The Tar Heels were 
Jay John said. "You've got to know where the traps, the dan­ger zones are, and we didn't stay out of the traps." 
The Huskies led 28-27 at halftime despite shooting mis­erably from the field (1 0-for­38), especially at the start of the game when they missed their first 11 shots from the field and went 3-for-20 in the first 9:58. 
But the Beavers, struggling against Washington's pressing man-to-man defense, couldn't capitalize on the Huskies' woe­ful shooting because they com­mitted 16 turnovers in the first half. 
Washington trailed 7-1 and 11-6, but finally caught Oregon State at 17 -all on Bobby Jones' fastbreak dunk with 7:54 to go following a steal by Dentmon. 
Arizona State 72, Denver 61 
Arkansas State's Dereke Tipler led all players in three categories Thursday night in a win over Denver. 
Tipler scored 18 points, pulled down nine rebounds and was credited with five assists for the Indians (8-12, 3-3 Sun Belt Conference). 
lie was one of four ASU play­ers who scored in double digits. 
Marcus Ardison had 16 points, Yual Banks scored 11 ­including 3-of-5 shooting from long distance -and Jim Jones added 10. 
Denver (10-8, 3-2) was led by Yemi Nicholson's 15 points, while Steve Wetrich and Antonio Porch added 11 each. 
ASU led 35-32 at the half. 
"Their guards 

just dominated the game," North Carolina coach Roy Williams said. 
Singletary led Virginia with 18 points, but had only two down the stretch when Reynolds, freshman Laurynas Mikalauskas and Jason Cain all made big plays. 
Mikalauskas twice scored on putbacks and grabbed several key rebounds, and Cain fin­ished with just seven points and five rebounds, but added five blocks, several in the final min­utes as the Tar Heels tried to get the ball inside to Hansbrough. 
"Today just showed what we can do when everybody's play­ing well," Cain said. 
Hansbrough led North Carolina with 18 points and 10 
throws with 16. 5 fastbreak layup to
"We don't mind
seconds to go, fin­put the Huskies in 
ishing with 16 scoring in the 6os front 66-60. 
points to lead No. as long as we win." But the Beavers 10 Washington to weren't done. a victory over Chris Stephens got 
Brandon Roy
Oregon State on a layup before Thursday night. Washington guard W e s I e y 

rebounds and David Noel had 14 and 10 rebounds, but they also combined to commit 10 of the Tar Heels' 14 turnovers. 
Singletary had eight points in a 13-2 run that gave Virginia the lead 5 1/2 minutes into the second half. The burst grew to 26-10 over 9 minutes, giving the Cavaliers a 55-46 edge with 
8:29 to play, and from then it was a matter of staying in front. 
The Tar Heels helped with their inability to hit outside shots. 
"You can hope and pray and hold your mouth different ways," Williams said, "but the bottom line is you've got to put the ball in the basket." 
Washington 69. Oregon State 60 

Washington missed its first 11 shots and finished a season­worst 33 percent from the field. And still they won. 
"We don't mind scoring in the 60s as long as we win," Huskies preseason All-America Brandon Hoy said. "Eventually, we'll start shooting better." 
Bobby Jones made two key baskets down the stretch and sank two free 
The Huskies (15­2, 4-2 Pac-10) ended a two-game conference losing streak at home after they had a 32-game home winning streak broken. They won their third straight league game. 
But it wasn't easy on a night when they didn't shoot well (24­for-72) and Hoy struggled with eight points on 3-for-9 shooting. 
Even when the Huskies were 0-for-11, though, Roy said the Huskies weren't worried. 
"It was real scary because we were missing layups, too," he said. "But it was nothing we got nervous about." 
Maybe the Huskies weren't nervous, but they weren't effi­cient offensively. And the Beavers were in the game until the finish. 
Sophomore forward Marcel Jones, who led Oregon State (9­8, 2-4) with 14 points, said he didn't think the Huskies are the No. 10 team in the nation. 
"They're good, they're really good," he said. "But I don't know if their ranking is what it's cracked up to be." 
With the score 62-60 in favor of the Huskies following a layup by Nick DeWitz with 2:44 remaining, Jones put back an offensive rebound 27 seconds later for a four-point lead. 
Then, with 2 minutes to go, 
Jones scored on a 
Washington stole 
the baH from Justin Dentmon at midcourt and drove in for a layup with 
1:15 left. He was fouled by Dentmon on the play and made his free throw to cut Washington's lead to 66-65. 
After Stephens missed a 17­footer, Washington rebounded and Jones was fouled with 16.5 seconds left. Jones' two free throws gave Washington a 68­65lead. 
Stephens missed another 3­point try and Roy was fouled and sank a free throw with 1.8 seconds left. 
Freshman Jon Brockman added 11 points for Washington. 
Washington shot only 26 per­cent in the first half, but made 41 percent (14-for-34) after the break. The Beavers committed a season-high 28 turnovers. 
"The turnovers were a combi­nation of Washington's defense and us," Oregon State coach 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: Verizon Audiovox Cell Phone near North Dining Hall on 1/17. Please call Anne at 4-3415. 
WANTED 
Part-time sitter needed 
in professors home 
for 4-yr-old boy. 574-271-1353. 

Canton House restaurant now accepting applications for full/part time wait staff. 15 mins. to NO. Call 57 4-232-8182 or fax resume to 232-2044 
FoR RENT 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2­6 BEDROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 
Area houses and apartments for rent. Log onto MichianaRentals.com. Caii574-993-RENT (7368) 
908 SB Ave: Roomy 6-7 bdrm home 4 blocks to NO. 2 baths, w/d, broadband internet incl. Avail. 06-07 & 07-08 school year. 327 Hill St: NEED A HOME TODAY? NEED A SECOND CHANCE? Very nice 3 bdrm home. Close to NO & Corbys. Broadband internet option. WID & alarm system avail. Move in today. Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 or email JCrimmins@ myLandGrant.com 
Stop overpaying for rent. Visit BlueGoldrentals.com 

New 3-4 Bedroom Homes, 3 full Baths, 2+ Car Garage, Fireplace, Cathedral Ceilings, 1Ox20 Deck, Close to Campus. $1700 monthly. Available Aug. 06/07, Call 574-232-4527, 269-683-5038. 
1 bedroom apartment for rent 1 mile to campus. $575/mo. Laundry. Call 283-0325 
ROOM IN PRIVATE HOME. NICE LOCATION & 8 MINS. TO NO. $475/MO. CALL 574-386-7272. 
Blue & Gold Homes is offering a free pool table to all new tenants. 1-7 bdrms, 24-hr maintenance & open leases. Visit BlueGoldrentals.com or call 574-250-7653. 
515 St. Joseph, 8 bdrms, $200/person, B&G Homes. 57 4-250-7653. 

1706 Logan, 6 bdrms, $200/person, B&G Homes. 574-250-7653. 
123 NO Ave. 3-bdrm,1.5 bath. Call 574-229-0149. 
NO grad renting bsmnt studio apt. TV+intemet+utilities incl. 574-339-0582 
PERSONAL 
Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5 Days from $299! Includes Meals, MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica from $499! Campus Reps Needed! PromoCode:31 www.springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386. 
Je suis folie de tois. Happy Birthday! 


OUND THE NATION 
Friday, January 20, 2006 CoMPILED rRoM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NBA 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pet. GB 
New Jersey 21·15 .583 Philadelphia 18-20 .474 4 Boston 15·23 .395 7 New York 13-24 .351 8.5 Toronto 13·26 .333 9.5 
Eastern Conference, Central Division 
GB
tt"'lun rnr.ord pet. 
.861 Indiana 21·16 
Detroit 31·5 

.568 10.5 Cleveland 20·16 
.556 11 Milwaukee 19·18 
.514 12.5 Chicago 16-22 .421 16 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
ltmm record pet. GB 
Miami 23·16 .590 Washington 11·20 .459 5 Orlando 14·22 .389 7.5 Charlotte 11·28 .282 12 Atlanta 10·27 .270 12 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
lParn rPcord pet. (~B 
Denver 21-19 .525 Utah 20·19 .513 .5 Minnesota 18·18 .500 1 Seattle 15·23 .395 5 Portland 14·24 .368 6 
Western Conference, Pacific Division loam rneord pet.. GB Phoenix 25·13 .658 
LA Clippers 20·15 .571 3.5 LA lakers 21·11 .553 4 Golden State 18-19 .486 6.5 Sacramento 16·21 .432 8.5 
W~tem ~~renee, Southwest Division 
tl'1trn mcord pet. GB 
San Antonio 30·9 .769 Dallas 29·10 .744 1 Memphis 23-14 .622 6 New Orleans 19·19 .500 10.5 Houston 12·25 .324 11 
Women's College Basketball Big East Conference 
team eon!'. overall pet. 
Connecllcul 5·0 16·2 .889 Rutgers 4-0 12-2 .857 louisville 4·1 13·3 .812 St. John's 4·2 .824
14-3 DePaul 3-2 .889
16-2 Marquette 3-2 12-4 .750 
Seton Hall 3·2 6·10 .375 West Virginia 3·2 10-5 .667 Pittsburgh 3-3 12-5 .706 Notre Dame 2·3 11-5 .688 Villanova 2-3 11-5 .688 USF 2·3 .667
12-6 Georgetown 1·4 8-8 .500 Providence 1·4 6·10 .375 Cincinnati 1-4 11-5 .688 Syracuse 0·6 7-10 .412 
around the dial 
TENNIS 2006 Australian Open 2 p.m., ESPN2 10 p.m., ESPN2 

GOLF Bob Hope Chrysler Classic, 4 p.m. USA 
NBA 

San Antonio at Miami 8 p.m., ESPN LA Lakers at Phoenix 10: 30 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Knicks forward Antonio Davis was suspended five games by the NBA on Thursday for entering the stands during a game in Chicago to con­front a fan he thought was harassing his wife. 
While the penalty showed the NBA accepted Davis' argument that he believed his wife was in trouble during Wednesday night's game, it also made clear that entering the stands would not be toler­ated, no matter the cir­cumstances. 
Especially not after last 

season's ugly brawl between fans and players at an Indiana-Detroit game. 
"At the end of the day, what we had to decide on was the issue of Antonio breaking the barrier from the court into the stands," NBA vice president of bas­ketball operations Stu Jackson said during a con­ference call. "At the end of the day, that was the most important aspect of mak­ing that decision." 
The trouble for Davis and his wil'e, however, might not be over. 
Michael Axelrod, the 22­year-old fan that Davis confronted, said he did nothing wrong -and he plans to sue the player and his wife. Axelrod said Kendra Davis tried to scratch him after he protested a call. He said he never laid a hand on her and he was not drunk, as the New York forward con­tended. 
"It's a lie," Axelrod said. 
Jackson added that a player entering the stands normally results in a sus­pension of "double-digit games." 
Davis' suspension was to start with Thursday night's home game against Detroit, and the players' union will likely file a grievance. The Pistons were the home team the last time players went into the stands -when non Artflst and Stephen Jackson fought with fans in November 2004. 

An flmbarrassment for the NBA, the brawl led to criminal charges and lengthy suspensions for Artest, Jackson and Jnrmaine O'Nnal. 
"It's a totally difforent situation," said ex-Pacers star Heggie Millnr, Davis' former tnammate. "It was mayhem. llo's coming to defense of a loved one. Ours was craziness." 
IN BRIEF 

Former GM Epstein to rejoin MLB owners approve sale Third-seeded Hewitt upsetBoston Red Sox of Cincinnati Reds in Australian Open 
BOSTON -The door was ajar, and SCOTTSDALE -Baseball owners MELBOUHNE-Adios, Lleyton. Theo Epstein finally walked through unanimously approved the sale of G'day, Juan. it and back into the front ofiico of the baseball's oldest franchise, the Third-seeded Llnyton Hewitt was 
Boston Hed Sox. Cincinnati Reds, on Thursday to a upset 6-4. 6-4, 6-7 (H). (,-2 h y The most successful general man­group headed by produce mogul Argentine Juan Ignacio Chela in tho 
second round of the Australian Opnnager in franchise history will rejoin Robert Castellini. 
on Thursday, nwersing the outcome
the Hed Sox baseball operations Carl Lindner, the 86-year-old 
of their spiteful prnvious encountnrdepartment in a full-time -but oth­Cincinnati financier who owned the at M11lbourne Park.
erwise unspecified -position. His franchise, had three potential buy­"This will hurt !'or a few days," said long-rumored return comes 2 1/2 ers whose offers were roughly the thfl Aussie, who shook hands qukklymonths after he turned down a con­same but chose Castellini largely with Chela and walked quickly ofTtract extension and fled Fenway Park because of his local ties. Lindner the eourt, eyes downcast. 
in a gorilla suit to avoid the will remain a minority partner. 
And he wasn't talking about hisencamped media. "Local ownership there was criti­ankle strain that neednd attention in"As you know, we have spoken fre­cal, and it was crucial to Carl the third set.
quently during the last 10 weeks," the Lindner," baseball commissioner "I was giving everything I had out team and Epstein said in a joint state­Bud Selig said. "The one overriding there-I just wasn't up to it." 
ment on Thursday night. "We have goal we had was to have loeal own­A finalist here in 2005, llewitt has engaged in healthy, spirited debates ership." 
lost to the eventual champion in his about what it will take over the long­Terms weren't announced, but last seven majors. 
term for the Red Sox to remain a Castellini's group is said to be But unless unseeded Chela makes great organization and, in fact, acquiring about 70 percent owner­a startling run, Hewitt's shoekingbecome a more effective organization ship of a franchise worth an esti­loss has opened a potentially easier in philosophy, approaches and ideals. mated $270 million. road for top-ranked Hoger Federer. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, January 20, 2006 
Saint Mary's hopes to continute winning on the road 
TRACK & FIELD 

Home meet is first of three to start season 
By JORDAN BELTZ Sports Writer 
Home is where the heart is. 
Following a long holiday break and a quick road trip down 1-65 to West Lafayette, Ind. for the Purdue Invitational, the Irish track and field squad returns home for the Notre Dame Opener today at Loftus. 
The Opener, which is slated to begin at 5 p.m., is the first of three consecutive home meets to open up the 2006 calendar year. 
The Irish are coming off of a solid performance at Purdue. A select group of team members traveled to the meet, with the jumpers and throwers leading the squad in the unscored meet. 
The women's squad swept the high jump competition, while the men's squad had a very good showing the weight throw. Freshman Lauren Biscardi led all competitors with a jump height of 5-foot-6. 
Another of the highlights for Head Coach Joe Piane was the improvement shown by his throwers. 
Sophomore Kyle Annen picked up third-place honors in the weight throw at Purdue but was disappointed overall. 
"Our marks at the first meet of the year were slightly subpar 
SMC BASKETBALL 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Corning off of their horne win over Albion College Wednesday night, the Belles hope to beat_ Alma College on the road Saturday at 3 p.m. 
One major part of the win on Wednesday that the Belles hope to continue was their strong defensive performance, as they held the Britons to 51 points with tight man-to-man defense. Head coach Steve Bender hopes his team will keep up their high intensity from the Albion game for the game at Alma. 
"The most important part of our win was ... our man-to­man defensive intensity," Bender said. 
Saint Mary's should be in a good position to beat the Scots again Saturday if the team plays with the focus and intensity it displayed against Albion. 
Saint Mary's and Alma have met once before this season, a 74-68 win for the Belles on Dec. 10. 
The Belles hope to combine aspects of the first Alma game 

CHARISMATIC RENEWAL AT NOTRE DAME 
How it got started What's going on now? 
Montgomery Auditorium 7:00P.M. La Fortune Student Center Monday, Jan. 23 
due to heavy work loads and training loads duririg finals week," he said. "The long layoff helped us immensely, we were able to revive our bodies and come back to school fresh for the season." 
It is important for the Irish to come out strong in the Opener, as they have quite a few big meets corning up on the sched­ule, Piane said. This weekend marks the second of five consec­utive weekends that they will be in action, and the middle three meets are to be held in the friendly confines of Loftus. 
"We always have the goal of improving our marks and work­ing towards marks that will help gain our team points for the Big East Conference championship," Annen said. "In a situation of three consecutive meets at horne we are always looking for consistency and to become more comfortable with our event." 
Looking ahead at the sched­ule, the Irish have two more weeks to prepare until the pres­tigious Meyo Invitational is held the weekend of Feb. 3. The Irish currently have 29 athletes qual­ified for the Big East Championship, and will look to pick up even more qualifications in the corning weeks. 
Contact Jordan Beltz at jbeltz@nd.edu 
and the Albion game to take the advantage this weekend. 
Belles guard Bridget Boyce, who knocked down four shots from beyond the arc against Albion, will look to repeat her success from long range. 
One possible problem the Belles might face is the loss of junior point guard Bridget Lipke, who suffered a leg injury in the second half of the Albion game. Lipke was on crutches at the end of the Wednesday night game, and is still questionable for this game. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 

NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Sweep is aim for the Irish 
resting Friday night, Michigan put all our swimmers in their
Win against Spartans 
State will be competing in a best events in those meets." wouldfinish run over meet against Oakland. While the team's immediate "The fact that Michigan State focus is on this weekend's meet, 
Michigan universities is in action the Irish have Friday night "This and next weekend the corner of is probably a their eye on the
By GREG ARBOGAST are our final two
slight advan­bigger picture.Sports Writer tage for us," chances to learn With only two 
Irish coach how to race. ,, more dual 
After leaving Michigan in its Carrie Nixon meets until the wake last weekend, the Notre said. "They'll Big East Dame women's swimming and probably be a Carrie Nixon Champion­diving team will attempt to little tired on Irish coach ships, the sea­
complete rip through the water Saturday, but of the entire state of Michigan the fact that when they travel to East it's their horne pool will proba­Lansing to take on Michigan bly even that advantage out." State Saturday. While Michigan State may not 
Not only are the Irish going present an overbearing chal­
for a state sweep, but they are also swimming for their sixth consecutive victory -a victory that appears to be very much within this team's reach. 
The Spar­tans come into the contest with a dual meet record of 2-2, including 

a loss to the same Michigan "Doing the off-events is a lux­team that Notre Dame just ury," Nixon said. "We can fine defeated. tune some areas that we aren't 
Notre Dame has another able to against a team like advantage. While the Irish are Michigan because we have to 
SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
University of Notre Dame 
Free and Open to the Public • For more information call 631-5466 
2:30 Pfr.l Linda Gigante, professor of art history from the University of Louisville, will give a lecture on the Memoria exhibition 
3 pm Mary Murray, curator of the watercolors exhibition, will give a gallery talk 
WATERC 0 l 0 RS American Twentieth-Century Watercolors at the Munson-Williams-Proctor Arts Institute 
MONUMENTS 
Memoria: Funerary Monuments from the Speed Art Museum 
CHIMERAS 
The Chimeras of Gerard de Nerval: Thirteen Monotypes by Douglas Kinsey 
BIG SHOTS 
Big Shots: Large Format Photographs from the permanent collection 
ARCHITECTURE The Genesis of Monumental Architecture in Greece: The Corinth Project 
"Doing the off-events is a luxury. We can fine tune some areas that we aren't able to against a team like Michigan 
because we have to put all our swimmers in · their best events in 
those meets. ,, 
Carrie Nixon Irish coach 
lenge to the Irish, Nixon still sees Saturday's meet as a good opportunity for her team. She said this week­end will be an opportunity for many swim­mers on the team to swim in off-events, events they don't normally get a chance to participate in. 
son is entering 
the horne stretch, and the team has adjusted its training according­ly. 
This is the last week of intense training for the team before swimmers will begin a "taper." Similarly to the players in other sports, the swimming team has its most intense train­ing early and then continually eases up as they approach their goal. For the swimming and diving team, that will be the Big East Championships. 
Beyond their desire to obtain their sixth consecutive victory, the Irish are placing this week­end's meet in the context of the bigger picture. 
"This and next weekend are our final two chances to learn how to race," Nixon said. "It is our priority to get better every time we compete." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

'--------------------------------~-------­

Friday, January 20, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 



GOLF 
Ca111pbell grabs lead in California 
As,ociatccl Press 
I'ALM I>I·:SI·:B'I', Calif. ­Chad Camplwll shot a 6-undnr pur (,(, Thursday to take a l'our-shot IPad through two rounds ol' thn Bob llope ChrysiPr Classk. 
Carnplwll, who tiPd for soc­ond in llawaii last Wl~ok, rPmairwd bogPy-l'roe through:H, holt~s ol' tlw 'JO-holn llopn and was at IS-under 129. 
l'at I'PrPz had a wind-blown, wal.l'rloggml round and strug­giPd to a 7:{ all«'r an opening (,() and was tiPd for second with .John Senden. who had a (,:~ to go to II undl'r. 
l>nspitl' winds gusting at t.inws during thP second day, Campbell managed to make six birdies at La Quinta Co u n try Club, on o of four courses used for tho first four days ol' tlw tournament. 
llis birdins indudod pulls of 25 and 20 fot~l. 
I'Prez, whoso 12-under round a day narlinr was tho lowest ovor to start the tradi­tionally low-scoring llopc, strugglnd mueh of the sneond round at tlw new Classic Club at Northstar. !'laying in swirling winds, lw was 4 over for the day boforn he birdied four of six holos bnginning at No. 12. 
lie had a 4-iron into the watnr at No. 1K for his sixth bogey of the day. 
Olin Browne had a 69 at La <)uinta Country Club and Steve J.:lkington a 70 at P<;A Wost to tie thorn for fourth at 10 undor. 
Phil Miek1dson, the 2002 and 2004 llope champion, shot a 69 at pc;A Wnst that lof't. him !-!h.shots ofT the lnad at 135. 
Mike Weir, the 2003 ehampion, shot 69 and was in a group anothnr stroke behind. 
The :H -year-old Campbell, a two-limn tournament champi­on, came close last Sunday to winning for the first time sincn his victory in the 2004 Bay I I ill Invitational. Tied with David Toms headed into Sunday, Campbtdl finished with a 70 to Toms' winning 65 and tied for seeond with Hory Sabbatini. 
"Obviously, I was disappoint­ed and not happy with the way I playnd on Sunday," Campbell said. "Looking back at it, tak­ing a second the first wenk of the year after taking two months ofT, in hindsight it was­n't that bad of a week. 
"More than anything, I got confidence out of it." 
Campb1)ll had an "entertain­ing" second day at the llope. He was paired with singers Alice Cooper, Justin TimbPrlake and Darius Hucker of llootie and the Blowfish. 
"It was a great group," Campbell said. "They hit some good shots and we just had a good ,timn. The fans were great. 
Perez was frustrated by his round over the new course, whieh plays to 7,305 yards. 
Asked if he will be able to put the round behind him, Perez smiled and said, "Oh, I can't wait to get to Bermuda Dunes tomorrow." 


FREE SHOW 
WASHINGTON HALL SATURDAY, JAN 21 9:00PM 
SEATING BEGINS AT 8:30 PM 


NFL 
Rams give job to Miami's Linehan 
Dolphins offensive coordinator fourth coach in 11 seasons 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -The St. Louis Hams hirod Miami offnnsivn coordinator Seott Linehan on Thursday, tho sixth first-time NFL head eoach to land a job in the last two wnPks. 
Tlw team called a news con­ference for Friday to introduce their fourth head coach since moving to the Midwest in 1995. 
It's the first hire outside the organization, however, since 
"Before Scott joined the
Dick Vermeil great dnal of was lured out Dolphins, I considered respnct for of retirement Scott, and I
him to be one of the
in 1997. That know he is
most innovative
move pro-well qualified duced the offensive coaches to be a hoad franchise's coach in the
in the league."
only Super NFL." Bowl vietory A quartnr­after thn 1999 Nick Saban back at Idaho, 
season. Dolphins head coach Linnhan 
The 42-year­old Linehan impressed the team in two interviews. Then, he passed a final test with a meeting with team majority owner Georgia Frontiere in Arizona. 
Linehan helpnd the Dolphins l'inish 9-7, winning their last six games. He had been one of three finalists along with Bears defensive coordinator Hon Rivera and Chargers offensive coordinator Cam Cameron. 
Linehan replaces Mike Martz, who was fired one day after the Hams finished a 6-1 0 season. That move also came one day after Martz reeeived medical clearance to return to the job after missing most of the season with a bacterial infeetion of the heart. 
Speculation regarding possi­ble candidates to replace Linehan as the Dolphins' offensive coordinator ineluded Martz. 
or seven coaehes hired since the regular season ended, the only one with previous head­coaching experience is Herman Edwards of the 
"/ have a great deal of
Kansas City and offensive Chiefs. respect for Scott, and I taekle Orlando Linehan has Paee both
know he is well qualified 
never been a made the Pro 
to be a head coach in 
head coaeh at Bowl, and the any level. He's the NFL." offense also been in the features NFL for four 1 ,000-yard
Nick Saban 
years, the first running back three as ol'fen­Dolphins head coach Sloven 
sive coord ina­tor for the Minnesota Vikings where he helped produce the top-ranked offense in 2003. 
Last season, the Dolphins improved from 29th in total offense to 14th, and went from 31st in rushing to 12th. Linehan shuffled Hieky Williams and Honnie Brown successfully at running back, and coaxed a career-high 18 touchdown passes from Gus Frerotte. 
Also, wide receiver Chris Chambers had his best season and was pieked for the Pro Bowl for the first time. 
Linehan moved from the 
press box to tlw sidelirw for garnns midway through tho season. Playors raved about hirn though he didn't spnak to the media, in ar.cordancn with coach Nick Saban's ruin that assistant ~~oaelws are ofT lim­its. 
Saban pred i t:l ~~ d that J.irwhan will bo a "trenwndous asset" to tho Hams and said lw "did an outstanding job" in his onn !inason with Miami. 
"Boforn Seott joirwd tho Dolphins, I considernd him to be one of the most innovativo offnnsivn coaches in thn lnagun," Saban said in a statn­ment. "Af'tor working with him this past snason, I also came to appreeiato his work ethic and organizational skills. I have a 
passed for 

7,01H yards, then began a 14-year eollngn coaching career as an assis­tant at the school in 1989. 
Martz missed the last 11 games with endocarditis, an infnetion of a heart valve, and Jon Yilt served as intP.rim coach. Martz intervinwed for the vacaney in New Orleans lilled by Soan Payton, and Vitt interviewed for the vaeaney with the Now York .lets fillnd by Erie Mangini. 
The day that Martz was fired, team president .John Shaw said that Yilt, a longtime Martz acquaintanee who had been linebackers coach and assistant head coach bnfore taking ovt~r. would not be a candidate. 
It had bonn expnetod that the Hams would seek a defnnsive­minded coaeh, given that the team linishnd 30th in tho NFL 
... 
and allowed more points than all but one team. Instead, Shaw went for an offensive mind that eould takn advan­tage of tlw tnarn 's talents on that side of the ball. 
Wide receiv­
er Torry llolt 

Jackson, quar­terback Mare Bulgnr and wide receiver Isaac Bruen. 
The Hams made the playoffs four limos in six soasons under Martz, who was done in more by dashes with the front ofl'icn than coaching. Martz was ofl'ensivn coordinator under Vermeil on the team's Super Bowl championship team in 1999 and lnd the Hams to anothnr Super Bowl where they were upset by the Nnw England Patriots in 200 I, but bad blood built between he and director of football opnra­tions Jay Zygmunt the last few years. 

Friday, January 20, 2006

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 

laFortune Ballroom 1/21 
Prolific Seattle offense braces for Panthers 'D' 
Associated Press 
Mike Holmgren's forte is offense. It showed in Green Bay and it is showing in Seattle. 
John Fox made his reputa­tion as a defensive coordinator. His Carolina teams reflect that. 
When the Seahawks and Panthers meet Sunday for the NFC championship, how well host Seattle's versatile offense moves and scores against Carolina's impressive defense figures to determine which team winds up in the Super Bowl. 
Already in these playoffs, we've seen how dominant the Panthers can be without the ball. Their performance at the New York 

Giants in the Alexander
"When {Shaun 
wild-card said. "I have
Alexander] takes the ball 
round was the been telling most impres­and he goes one way, everybody for sive of the the last couple
you have to stay
postseason. years that we
disciplined in the
And while the were close to Bears did get running lanes, because being a cham­21 points last pionship team
there's no telling where 
week, the and I was
that ball is going to pop
Panthers (13-proud of the 
5) rarely out at., guys this year seemed threat­for always ened. They accepting chal­
Julius Peppers 
made all the lenges. This 
defensive end 
key stops late was just anoth­in the game. Carolina Panthers er challenge. 
Star defen­sive end Julius Peppers points directly at Fox and the coach­ing staff as the force behind the forceful defense. 
"He does a good job of game­planning and switching the game plan up so we're not the same all the time," said Peppers, who led the Panthers with 10 1/2 sacks and has been a solid run-stuf'fer, too. "We attack people's weaknesses and we use different schemes each week. 
"So we know that in order for us to play well, we've got to know what we've got to do. Everybody is focused on the game plan and focused on what we have to do." 
Unquestionably what they have to do Sunday is slow down league MVP Shaun Alexander, who has recovered from a concussion and will start. Naturally, Peppers-list­ed as questionable with a shoulder injury but, according to him, ready to go -will play a major role, along with defen­sive linemates Mike Rucker, Brentson Buckner, linebackers Will Witherspoon and Dan Morgan, and safeties Marlon McCree and Mike Minter. 
"I see that he runs the ball hard and he has good vision for the cutback run," Peppers said of the NFL's leading rusher. "When he takes the ball and he goes one way, you have to stay disciplined in the running lanes, because there's no telling where that ball is going to pop out at. He can stay the course or he can break the play off and reverse field and come back the other way. He could go inside; he's all over the field. 
"So you've got to be disci­plined when you're playing against a back like that, because you never know where he's going to take the ball to." 
Last week. he didn't take the ball much of anywhere. The Hedskins knocked him out of the game early, and Alexander rushed only six times for 9 yards. 

So quarterback Matt llasselbeck was sensational, going 16-for-26 for 215 yards and a touchdown, plus running for another. 
That's the kind of attack Holmgren wants: balanced, dependable. Indeed, fullback Mack Strong, like Alexander an All-Pro, had only three carries in the win over Washington, but he gained 30 yards. 
Mo Morris, who stepped in for Alexander, gained 49 yards, and Darrell Jackson, back from knee surgery that cost him nine games, caught nine balls for 143 yards and a TD. 
"I am proud of Mo and this 
whole team," 

You lose a player and guys just step up. You saw guys just jelling together, and Darrell came back and had a great, great game. Mo made some great third-down runs. That's what teams do." 


'Second-day QBs' flourish 
Quarterbacks chosen in late draft rounds command contenders 
Associated Press 

When Hyan Leaf decided he would leave Washington State and enter the 1998 draft, the people who run the NFL scout­ing combine had to uninvite one quarterback. 
The guy they dropped was Matt Hasselbeck. 
Almost eight years later, while Leaf contemplates unemployment and spends whatever is left of the $11.25 million signing bonus he got for being the second overall pick that year, Hasselbeck is getting ready to quarterback the Seattle Seahawks against Carolina in Sunday's NFC championship game. 
That's just another example of the imperfection in scouting quarterbacks -Tom Brady was the 199th overall pick in 2000, and he's been the win­ning QB in three Super Bowls and the MVP in two. 
Hasselbeek and Carolina's Jake Delhomme, the starting quarterbacks in Seattle, both 
lNLOVINGMEMORY OF 
LUCY BLANDFORD PILKINTON A.B., M.A., PH".D. 
27 FEB 1943--19 }AN 1994 
came out of college in 1998, the same year Peyton Manning and Leaf were 1-2 in the draft. 
Hasselbeck was chosen in the sixth round by Green Bay and tutored by Mike Holmgren, now his coach in Seattle. Delhomme went undrafted. 
That unites them in what is known informally as "the sec­ond-day club" -quarterbacks who were not chosen on the first day, in the first three rounds. 
"We had to come into the NFL almost through the back door," says Delhomme, who was signed as an undrafted free agent by the Saints, played in NFL Europe and spent his early years as a lit­tle-used backup before signing with the Panthers in 2003. 
"We like it and we don't want to leave. I like Matt and want him to succeed. There's a hidden bond, I guess you could say, where you think, 'Yeah, he's like me. He wasn't one of 
those high draft picks.'" 

The quarterbacks in the AFC title game aren't in the club. Pittsburgh's Ben Roethlisberger was a first­rounder, taken with the 11th overall pick in 2004, and 





sign up to participate at the LaFortune Information Desk 
winner will represent Notre Dame at the ACUI regional poetry slam tournament in february 
Denver's Jake Plummer was an early second-round pick in 1997. 
Roethlisberger is the only one still with the team who drafted him. 
Hasselbeck was traded by Green Bay to Seattle in 2001 to rejoin Holmgren. Plummer signed with the Broncos as a free agent in 2003 and Delhomme went to Carolina the same year. 
Ilasselbeck comes from a football family -his father, Don, was a tight end for nine seasons in the NFL and his brother Tim is the backup quarterback for the New York Giants. Like Tim, he played at Boston College, where he was shuttled in and out of the line­up by Dan Henning, then the BC head coach and now Carolina's offensive coordina­tor. 
Delhomme's thrived in Carolina after almost signing with Dallas when he left the Saints as a free agent. 


Goo<! Tkkots fhtullublo Gt Covolflkl Stodillm 
~--ThtElol!htalltllalO!Iko.oll ,.. 
--.tllo!pby,....514,'m-9911Dfll4~. 

r------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, January 20, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Steelers' Polatnalu punishes opponents fro111 all angles 
'Tasmanian Devil' a versatile weapon for Pittsburgh's defense 
Associated Press 
PITTSBUHGII -Colts quar­tnrhack Pnyton Manning's arm­waving, fingnr-pointing and nonstop gesturing at the line of scrimmage SIHHIHHI espoeially frantic against the Pittsburgh Steel1ws, and for good reason. 
t\fter all, what quarterback could possibly bn prepared for the sight of a 5-foot-11 defen­sive back, espndally ono whose chaotic yet passionatn play and fnw-llowing hair have earned him thn nickname of the Tasmanian Devil, liiwd up at nose tackln'? 
That's right. nosn tackln. 

Troy Polamalu, an All-Pro defmuler who hits likn a minia­turn-siznd linebarknr but can drop into-dnep pass coverage, presents the most problematic matehup for the Denver Brone(js in Sunday's AFC eham­pionship game, just as it did for the Bnngals and Colts before them. 
llow do they prepare for a one-of-a-kind defender -a man who is never out of posi­tion because he doesn't really have one'! A player so disrup­tivo that eoach Bill Cowher comparnd drafting him in 2003 to a child opening a special padagn on Christmas -he didn't know for sure what he was getting, but he knew it would bn good. 
"It was liko getting a new toy," Cowher said. "You start putting him everywhere and anywhere." 
Polamalu, a Pro Bowl player in oach of his two seasons as a startnr, didn't have any of the Steelers' live sacks of Manning in Indianapolis yet was one of the players most rnsponsible for thn 21-1 H upset that sent them to Denvor -even though his fourth-quarter interception was wrongly overturned after a replay. 

The Steelers used Polamalu in so many ways -bringing him off' the edge as a rush line­backer, slipping him into pass protection or blitzing him up the middle -that Manning could be seen looking for him on nearly every play. The blitzes so disrupted Manning that he complained afterward about his lack of protection. 
"lie's a very rare athlete," Steelers defensive coordinator Dick LeBeau said. "A lot of what we do is because of what he lets us do." 
Bengals quarterbaek Carson Palmer, Polamalu's roommate at Southern Cal, goes a step fur­ther and calls him "the best defensive player in the league." Patriots coach Bill Belichick said, "If you don't know where he is, he'll get you." 
The Steelers will try to put the same kind of pressure on Broncos quartorback Jake Plummer that they did on Manning, and maybn even more so, because they don't fear Plummer's ability to beat them dnwnfield as they did Manning's. Plummer played a so-so game in Denver's 27-13 decision over New England ­he was 15-of-26 for 1 97 yards with one touchdown and an interception -and may have to play better if the Broneos are to avoid beeoming Pittsburgh's lat­est upset vietim. 
Plummer has seen enough of Polamalu watching video tape this week. 
"lie's running around, flying around, just doing some erazy stuff and making plays," Plummer said. "You have to see where he is and someone has to account for him beeause he can eause you trouble." 

Somntimes, the Stoelers will hide Polamalu behind a blitzing linebacker and ask him to lind any seam in the offensive lirw and shoot through it. They also will line up with only two down linemen but five linebaekers, three of whom will stack one side of the line of scrimmage so there aren't enough linemen to block all of them. Then, Polamalu can be found most anywhere. 
"He's unbelievable," Broneos coach Mike Shanahan said. "They do a great job with their seheme-making, making it very diflieult to figure out where he is, but the rest is him making plays. There are not many plays where he is not involved, and you ean't say that about many people in tho INFLI." 
While Polarnalu semns to play with rneklnss abandon, his eoaehos say hn is v1~ry rnueh under control. LeBeau said Polarnalu probably studies morn film than anyone. t\nd, a snason ago, Polamalu made up a I>VI> of other NFL safeties so he eould compare their techniques. 
It is off the l"ield where Polamalu's personality dons not remotely rel'leet his on-f'ield image of being a wide-eyed, modern-day version of' Jack Lambert -albeit with all his teeth. lie dresses much like the eollege student he was only three years ago and hasn't eut his hair sinee then, to honor his Samoan heritage. 
offee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 

Tuesday, January 24th 
7:30-9:30p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Stand;ng Commjttee on Gay and Lesb;an Student Needs ;nvUes gay, 
lesb;an, and bjsexual members of 
the Notre Dame family, the;r frjends, and supporters to an ;nformal coffee at the Co-Mo. 


Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. *Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
Friday, January 20, 2006

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Team to face three top-10 foes in first weeks of schedule 
Irish will volley with top-ranked Virginia, Duke and the Illini 
By KATE GALES 
Associate Sports Editor 
Hard work pays oil'. 
That's the mentality the Irish used going into the fall season, and it paid oil' with a No. 26 team preseason ranking going into the dual-match season. 
Stephen Bass is ranked No. 8 in the country, Sheeva Parbhu is No. 14 and the formidable doubles tandem of Ryan Keckley and Eric Langenkamp debuts at No. 12. 
But preseason rankings don't mean much when it matters most, and the Irish remain focused on the future, which begins with Saturday's match at Northwestern to kick off the spring season. 
"I think we're ready to go," 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 
Northern Michigan Wildcats (9-8­1, 13-10-1 overall) this weekend and look to improve upon a 4-3-2 streak that started with a 3-0 win over Western Michigan on Dec. 3. 
"I think it's been huge in the last few weeks," Irish junior for­ward Josh Sciba said of the close­ly divided CCHA pack. "There's such a small amount of points that separate the bottom for the top. We need to go into each weekend and try to execute our systems. It's very important and [Irish head] coach [Jetn Jackson has been stressing that every weekend." 
Northern Michigan will be a more-than-able opponent for the resurgent Irish, as the Wildcats took the second CCI-lA spot after a two-game sweep of Ferris State last weekend. 
The Wildcats have a subpar goal difl'erential however, scoring 50 goals while allowing 50 in their own net. The plus/minus rating of zero makes Northern coach Bobby Bayliss said. "We're excited, we're charged up ­we've got to come out of the blocks quickly because we have a pretty challenging early sched­ule." 

Team members returned· early from Christmas break to start practicing with two-a-days before class started. Bayliss said they are ready for new competition after intrateam matchups since the fall season concluded. 
"We're tired of butting heads with each other," he said. "Everyone looks reasonably sharp, we're in pretty good shape." 
The early part of the Irish schedule features three top-10 teams in as many weeks, with No. 1 Virginia, No. 8 Duke and No. 4 Illinois all on the road. 
"We do have tough opponents very early and we'd love to take advantage of some of those ... but I think we believe in ourselves," Bayliss said. 
The sense of confidence is 
Michigan the only team in the top seven of the CCI-lA to not break out of the red and ink a positive standing. 
When it comes to common opponents between the two squads, it isn't hard to find a sig­nificant comparison, as both teams squared off against the Miami Red Hawks on consecutive weekends in early January. 
Northern Michigan came away with a 2-1 come-from-behind vic­tory over Miami, but was deci­mated 6-3 in the encore. The Irish secured a 2-2 tie last Friday night against the Red Hawks, but dropped a 3-2 heartbreaker the next night. 
"Last weekend against Miami was proof that we can be a lot better," Sciba said. "All we can do is build on that and if we can keep doing that we can get the wins." 
The Irish will have to watch the lethal combination of Dirk Southern and Andrew Contois on the Wildcat attack. Contois was named CCI lA ofl'ensive player of the week for the week of Jan. 16 and is second for Northern Michigan in scoring with 1 0 goals and 12 assists. Southern is ninth helped by new team leaders step­ping up. · 
Bass is one of only three singles players in Notre Dame history to be ranked in the ITA's Top 10. He finished the fall with a 13-1 record, featuring eight wins over ranked players. He capped it ofT with a win in the ITA Midwest Championships. His opponent in that matchup was Parbhu, who was 11-2 in fall play. 
On the doubles side, Keckley and Langenkamp highlighted their fall season with two wins over Top-25 teams. 
The top of the lineup is formi­dable, which is a huge asset on a team that also has the depth of the Irish. 
"I think in the past, I've always talked about I think we have great depth. I still think that's true but this year, I think we have some strength in the top of our lineup," Bayliss said. " ... We have some veterans down below who have been in the trenches and won big matches for us and are 
in the CCI-lA in scoring with seven goals and 17 assists. 
The Wildcats are solid on the blue line as well, with Zach Tarkir collecting CCI lA defensive player of the week honors for last week. Tarkir had two assists in the Wildcats' series with Ferris State and was a key to the penal­ty kill unit that went a perfeet 11­for-11 in the two games. 
But that doesn't scare the com­posed and confident Irish squad that will embark upon the meat of its 2005-06 schedule starting tonight. 
"We just try to worry about ourselves and go out everyday and work hard," Seiba said. "It's a new year and the team this year, for the '06 Irish, is going to be a lot difl'erent. We're foeusing on our work ethic and on out­working our opponents." 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
very, very capable. There's a group of four or five guys all of whom I'm very comfortable deciding the match for us." 
Bayliss has said since the fall that this group of players demon­strates a strong team bond. 
"I think we've done a good job of recognizing issues before they become problems, and I think a lot of guys on the team have learned to take care of those things and I think that's really helped," he said. ''I'm looking for a year in which we've really mini­mized distractions." 
As the dual-match season begins, the team is prepared for the challenges that will come, beginning Saturday at Northwestern. 
"I think we're going to make it happen this year and I think we're not apprehensive," Bayliss said. "I use the old coaching expression 'guardedly opti­mistic."' 
The Irish hit the courts at 6 
p.m. Saturday. 
Water 
continued from page 24 

200-yard freestyle. Despite Nelis' strong show­ing, the Belles fell to Alma. 
Saint Mary's swim team's lack of divers has left them with an underhand for the entire season. 
"We have no divers, which impacts the score of every meet," Kachmarik said. · 
With this detriment, the Belles look toward the rest of the season with goals of simply building and improving on what they have. 
Notes: 
+ Todd Doebler has been pro­moted to associate head coach of the men's tennis team -the first person to hold that position in team history. 
"It's simply a statement of recognition that he's done an out­standing job for these four years here and is the first person ever to have that title," Bayliss said. "I think· it's a big honor and I think it's our way of letting him know we're proud of what he's done." 
Doebler, a 1996 graduate of Bloomsburg (Pa.) University, coached Bass and Parbhu to the top two spoL'i at the ITA Midwest Championships this fall. 
+ Junior Irackli Akhvlediani will not play this weekend due to an injury sustained during Christmas break. Bayliss said Akhvlediani stayed in Vienna for n~habilitation but was eleared for practice on Thursday. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
The Belles are only three weeks away from the MIAA League Championships. Today's meet against Kalamazoo could be a strong springboard l'or the final races of the season. 
Ilowever, it could also be a difficult one, given that Kalamazoo triumplH~d. 158-78, over the same Alma team that defeated the Belles. 
The Belles look to their meet against the Lady Hornets of Kalamazoo with high hopes of improving all across the board. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu and Becki Dorner at rdorner@nd.edu 






WANTED Resident Advisors 
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE PREPARATION PROGRAM 
QUALIFICATIONS:
The Northwestern University College 

• completion of sophomore year of college by June, 2006 
Preparation Program is looking for 
resident advisors to help guide high 

• a consistent record of academic school students through ·a summer 
achievement 

• previous experience as an RA, tutor, or camp counselor 
of learning and fun at Northwestern. 
Earn salary, including room and 

• excellent communication, board; work with bright, motivated 
leadership, motivation, and problem-solving skills 
high school students from around 

• a wide range of extracurricular
the country and abroad; plan excit­
interests and activities 
ing events and gain valuable experi­

• enthusiasm and a genuine interest in working with high
ence while enjoying Northwestern 
school students 
campus life and exploring Chicago 

• a strong sense of responsibility this summer! 
and a high level of maturity 
Apply by February 17, 2006! 

For information and to request an applica­tion, contact Stephanie Teterycz at 847-NORTHWESTERN 467-6703 or s-teterycz@northwestern.edu. UNIVERSITY 
Lil<e fine wine, Mozart's music gets better with age. 
Join the Chamber Orchestra for an all-Mozart celebration of the Master's birthday. Eine Kleine Nachtmusik, Piano Concerto No. 20, Symphony No. 39, Per piet;i, non ricercale 
Featuring 

Jacqueline Schmidt, piano, Notre Dame Paul Appleby, tenor, Notre Dame (a former South Bend Symphony Young Artist's Competition winner) 
Sunday, January 22, 2:30pm, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Tickets: $20 Adults, $18 Seniors, $10 Students SouthBenciSymphony.com or call 631-2800 June H. Edwards Chamber Concert Series 
ll""Y.AIIMf.NT WJ:.ItW 
~DEBARTOLO 

MERIDIAN 
~ P!'RfORMINGARTSCENTER
ARTS 

,----­
Friday, January 20, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish hope to cruise past No. 16 Wildcats and Vikings 
JPW Mass Lector Au.~itions 

JPW Lector auditions will take place in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on each of the following dates: 
Monday, January 30th at 4:00pm Tuesday, January 31st at 4:00pm 
Please attend one of the two auditions. For further information, please contact Harv Humphrey at 631-8520 or by email at humphrey.17@nd.edu 

C-M 
Campus Ministry 

By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
The men's swimming and div­ing team begins the most erueial part of its season this weekend with baek-to-back matehups against No. 16 Northwestern and then Cleveland State. 
"This is crunch time," Irish hnad coach Tim Welsh said. "We are down to the last couple of road shows bef(Jre we take it to New York." 
Eisenhower Park, on Long Island, is the site for this year's Big East Conference Tournament, and Notre Dame's schedule ovnr the next two weekends is intend­ed to mentally and physically prepare the team to defend last year's league title. 
The Irish begin with a Friday night meet against Northwestern, the highest ranked opponent on their schedule. The Wildcats have taken the last five meetings between the two teams -and 13 of 20 in the all-time series. 
'They are pretty quick across the board, but we go into the meet knowing that we have the depth to beat them," junior Ted Brown said. "It's going to come down to if we are able to utilize our depth." 
Notre Dame got a preview of just how quick those "top guys" are when the two teams compet­ed last week in the Dallas Morning News Classic. The Irish fmished fifth overall, three places behind the Wildcats. 
"We are two very different 
teams," Welsh said. "They havn a handful of superstars who are very, very good but thny arn not as deep or balanced as wn are." 
The Irish are hoping their t<mm depth will prnsnnt thorn with a bnttnr matehup in lwad-to-lwad competition than in last week­end's tournament style meet. At 5-1, Notre Dame has donn very well in dual meets, while Northwestnrn has gone only 2-2 so far this snason. 
Notre Dame at Cleveland St. 
Saturday's opponent, <:loveland State (7-3), visited Holl's Aquati<~ Centnr narlier this year for tlw ND Helays. 
Tlw Vikings linislwd sixth out of seven teams, but Welsh said his team would not overlook Cleveland State, whoso strong divers and long distance swim­mers may <Teate match up prob­lems with the strengths of Notre Dame. 
The threat is increased because the meet takes place loss than 24 hours after Notre Dame's ment at Northwestern. 
Notre Dame, whkh has not lost to Cleveland State during tho past 10 years, is confident in its ability to beat the teams it needs to in order to maintain its national rank and reputation. 
"Teams put forth their best effort against us in every meet," Brown said. "It is our job to have the same intensity for all of our meet..c;;." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Academic Freedom and Catholic Character Address and Discussion By Rev. John I. Jenkins, c.s.c. Please plan to join Fr..Jenkins for his address to the Notre Dame community on the issue of academic freedom and our Catholic character. A period of questions and comments will follow. Faculty: Monday, January 23, 2006, at 4:30 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Students: Tuesday, January 24, 2006, at 12:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. ~UNIVERSITY OF ~NOTRE DAME  

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, January 20, 2006 
Eagles 
continued from page 24 
the need to contain the forward who has been a Marquette staple for the past few seasons. 
"You want to try to control Novak a little bit," Brey said. "He's been just fabulous, espe­cially in that building with what he did against Connecticut." 
Quinn, wh.o has scored more than 30 points twice in the last four games, described Novak as a dangerous player who is able to score several ways. 
"Novak is stepping up and shooting it," Quinn said. "For a tall player at 6-[foot]-10, he's def­initely one of the best 3-point shooters in the league. Its some­thing we definitely have to be ready for." 

Novak is not the only weapon for Marquette. Freshman point guard Dominique James is aver­aging 19 points and 5.2 assists per game in Big East play, num­bers that have earned him respect from Brey. 
"James is playing as good as any guard in the league," Brey said. 
Brey said the Irish need to con­tinue to put points on the board in addition to playing smart defense and forcing critical turnovers. Marquette is very good at fmding grooves at home, evi­denced by its 94-79 win against Connecticut. 
"They've gotten on big runs at home in their building," Brey said. "Our big thing is just being able to get key stops. We're not going to smother you defensively. We're not built like that. 
"We're not going to turn you over, but can we be a good posi­tion defensive team, can we get the key defensive rebound, and the key loose ball." 
The Irish are coming off a turn­around performance at home against Providence in which they exploded for 92 points in a IS­point victory. They had dropped their previous three league games. 
Brey hopes the Providence game will be a turning point in the season and the Irish can build momentum from the victory. 
"I thought that we played our hearts out for the first three games and had nothing to show for it," Brey said. "There is never an evening out in the league, you have to make things happen for yourselves, but I think coming out of the locker room after a league win, you're feeling better about yourselves." 
Even though the Irish are 1-3 in Big East play, overall they are outscoring their opponents by 8.7 points per game. Notre Dame lost by three to Pittsburgh and by six to DePaul and Syracuse. 
As much as the Irish hope to get a win at Marquette, the team understands road games in the Big East are difficult regardless of the opponent. Brey said Notre Dame views every team as a dan­gerous opponent in their respec­tive buildings. 
"When you think about road games in our league, no matter who you are playing, you are thinking can we steal a road win," Brey said. "It doesn't mat­ter if it's a team that hasn't won a league game or is undefeated at home." 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
Hoyas 
continued from page 24 
McGraw said Notre Dame (11-5, 2-3 Big East) must build on its performance against the Blue Demons. 
"It was a great game, I thought we played really well," she said. "After watch­ing the game, I thought ... we got a lot of good contributions from a lot of people. That's how you get confidence -by being able to contribute and knowing that play well." 
Senior point guard Megan Duffy scored 28 points, grabbed eight rebounds and doled out nine assists in the win. 
The Irish went with a new look in the starting lineup against DePaul, and McGraw said the motivational tool paid off. 
Charel Allen earned her 
her reserves Saturday. 

"The offense, I think we need to keep that up," she said. "I think we have to have that balance.... We just going to try to build on that and play well defensively." 
and brought rebounds off the bench in the 78-75 win over tenth-ranked DePaul. 
"I was try­ing to moti­vate her, and she thinks s h e answered the call," McGraw said. "If you 
down nine Notre Dame's focus on the defensive end will be sopho­
"If you can't score 

more Hoya for­
around the basket, it's 

ward Kieraah 
really tough to rely on Marlow, who I e a d s
that outside shot 

Georgetown
security. "  with  16.5  
points  per  
Muffet McGraw  game.  

"We can't feel
Irish coach 

too good about ourselves [after the win against can't score DePaul]," McGraw said. "And 
around the basket, it's really tough to rely on that outside shot security." 
McGraw said she hopes for the same sort of offensive and defensive performance from I think we're ready to do that." 
Notes: 

+ McGraw said she is still undecided on the starting five for Saturday. 
"I think Duffy will start," McGraw quipped. "It's up for grabs."
+ Georgetown is averaging just 414 fans per home game this year at McDonough Gym, and McGraw said that could play a factor in the game. 
"It's hard to play in an atmosphere like that," she said. "Even when the crowd's against you, it's night to have a crowd. It's more like a high­school gym." 
+ The Baltimore Sun report­ed Wednesday that McDonough High School (Pomfret, Mary.) senior guard Brittany Mallory, a perennial all-league selection in Baltimore, verbally commit-· ted to Notre Dame. 
NCAA regulations prohibit coaches from commenting on recruits until national signing day. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1@nd.edu 
Young 
continued from page 24 
Turkovich were rated No. 22 and 35 nationally by Scout.com last year. 
The year before that, Notre Dame also signed two offensive line recruits -Chauncey Incarnato and John Kadous ­neither of whom are still with the team. Incarnato left the squad at the beginning of fall camp in 2005. Kadous is still enrolled· at Notre Dame but is not on the team. 
Note: 
+ Walk-on applications for the football team are due today. They can be picked up and dropped off in the football offices of the Guglielmino Athletics Complex. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

first start of the year, scoring five points, and Breona Gray came off the bench and added 10 points in 31 minutes of action. 
Post presence Lindsay Schrader scored nine points 
Download and RUN the updated TakeCharge for Windows from http://oit.nd.edu/security/. (Did we mention IIand run it?11) 
TakeCharge is the software utility developed by the Notre Dame OIT to help you protect your computer from viruses, worms, spyware and who knows what. These nasty critters, once on your computer, can cause you BIG problems. And often at the most inopportune times--when you're in the home stretch of a 30-page term paper, for example! 
So, how's TakeCharge changed? Do you really need to run it again? 
Yes! TakeCharge does the same handy dandy delightful things it did before, 
plus some added tricks that make life on the ND network better and surfing the 
Internet safer. 

·;.f TakeCharge fixes a new and dangerous Microsoft Windows vulnerability that 
arrived with the New Year. 

;.J TakeCharge. sets your PC to automatically receive future Windows critical 
updates. 

;.f TakeCharge optimizes your Windows firewall settings for enhanced network 
performance among all campus users. 
v TakeCharge determines if your Windows computer is running the correct 
version of OpenAFS, and if it isn't, shows you how to upgrade to the latest 
vers1on. 

lJNIVE RS ITY OF 
NOTRE.. DAME 
,.,.,Qffice o(Inforirl~tion Technologies 
"i.ttp:!li;it.nd.edu 
..:: :,;,;::·:<.:::~::.: ......: 


Friday, January 20, 2006 The Observer• TODAY page 23 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 32 The U.N.'s Kofi 59 Missile datum Annan
Pizza order 60 Snail feature 36 Smooth over
7 It may be used 61 Logs to put on a 37 It may be used brave face for many 
DOWNunhappy

15 Bewitch returns: Abbr. 1"_me!" 
16 1955 Gloria 38 Indirect object? 2 "Measure for
Grahame Measure" villain

musical role 41 Textile 3 N.F.L. Hall-of­
trademark FamerWillie 
17 Paternal 
kinsman 42 Feeling one's 4 Some kitchen
18 Forgathers oats 
appliances19 Not let run wild 47 Winning words? 
5 Whys and 20 1973 Toni 50 They whistle wherefores 
Morrison novel while they work 6 Singer/actress
21 Well-put 51 Church matters: 
with an Oscar,Abbr.
22 Splits two Grammys 52 Let off steam, and a Golden
24 Distinctly maybe Globe
representative 54 "You 7 W.W. II group
26 19th-century kidding!" 
a Deuce follower transportation 55 Famous last 9 _Martins, words? 
urban main character in Graham 28 Betel palm 

57 Go up, up and Puule by Sherry 0. Blackard
29 Ones who'd like 
Greene's "The to get the goods away 31 Concern for 39 Give a look that 46 Perfumery
Third Man" on you 58 Raspberries Batman could kill compounds
1oLike the "y" sound in "yes" 32 Not for free 40 Wipe out an old 
48 1972 top 10 hit ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
that was overscore11 See 30-Down 
33 Like some 7 minutes long 12 Privately weekends 43 Absolute 
49 Mound 13 Has little to 
34 Vintage toy 44 Ingredient in 53 Mammothcomplain about material some soaps 

growth 14 It may be 
35 Without 45 Lead by the 56 Pops in theunprecedented 
(dangerously) hand fridge? 23 Hawthorne's ...r-:+::+-:-i home 
For answers, call 1-900-285 -5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a25 Start of a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
-:-;-t-:-t:::+.::+.:-1 Cockney toast 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday!1!1~~~~ 27 Lower the price crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. of, maybe 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
-:+::::+;:+.::-! 30 Popular TV past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). host, seller of Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young many 11-Down solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
> 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlan Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, Alii want on it is to form four ordinary words. •Happy Birthday. Sally" 
VREYN 
J 
I I [ [] 
C2005 Tribune Media Se!VIces, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
NUEOE 
J 
I [I I I 


WHAT ?HE: TOLL/ THE: f'AKE:R TO L/0 ON HeR f'IRTHL/AY C.AKE:. 
www.jumble.com
tMAOAKS t 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.
I J I J I 

A:"[ I I I I]" THE [I I I I]
~nswers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: MESSY PARKA LIQUOR NAUSEA
Yesterday's 

Answer: A round belly can be the result of too many­SQUARE MEALS 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES IJORN ON THIS I>AY: Trevcr O'Brien, 22; Jodie Swccti1 24; Shawn Wayans, 35; Paul McCranc, 45 
Happy IJirthdny: Align yourself with someone who has the ahilitics, talents ( 
services you need to get ahead. Don't be ali·aid to take a ti·csh or unique approac 
to an old idea. You can promote something you believe in this year. The 11101 
sold you are on the project, the easier it will he. Your numbers arcH, 16, 25,2: 
33,36 

ARIES (March 21-April19): Don't put added pressure on yourself. There wi be enough people doing thati(Jr you. Try lo lake a practical approach to cverylhir you do. A self-improvement project will gel you moving. •• TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): If there is something you've been longing fo now is the time. A tough altitude will gel you a long way. Don't put up wil anyone trying to feed you a line. Enjoy friends, family and your lover. •••• GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): Usc your wisdom from past experience to lea you in the right direction. No one should be trusted or considered to be on ym side. Do your research and play it sale. You will be in a high creative cycle. • CANCER (.June 21-,July 22): Make your own choices, especially in monc matters. A chance to make some minor adjustments lo your residence will beneI you financially as well as where comi(Jrt is concerned. Don't pul restrictions r 
yourself~**** 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't rule nul the lacllhal not everyone will be in ym 
corner. Limiting what you can and can't do isn't the answer. Don't let tl1 
uncertainties that you arc experienceing stop you from following what you kno· 
in your heart you should do. •• • 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Social events will be a must. The people you wi 
meet can alter your future. A chance to lind love or to rectify a problem wit 
someone you care for deeply is evident. Travel should be in your plans. You wi 
learn plenty ifyou observe others. ••• 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your plate is full and this can cause you to lc• 
pressured by everything and everyone today. Give yourself a break. Ask fi. 
assistance--and, thus, let other people know they arc needed. I lome improvemc1 
projects will pay otT. *** 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Everything will be dependent on how you hand 
others. You should have the edge when it comes to ideas, so don't hold bacl 
Travel will open up a new relationship with someone you respect. ••• 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-l>ec. 21): You may know what you want lo Sl 
happen but, unless you physically make it so, your ideas aren't likely to con· 
into play. Be open to letting others gel involved and keep practicality in mind.* 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You'll have plenty of opportunity to sla 
something up with someone you are interested in. Both in business and plcasw 
you can make connections that will teach you the ins and outs of something lh 
interests you. Confidence will lead to the help required. •••• 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't let innuendos confuse you. Think ab01 
how you can make improvements to your life and your surroundings. This is 
perfect day to make changes that will help you move in a more lucrali\ 
direction.*** 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't let your emotions get the better of you ( 
you may miss out on something that is potentially good t(Jr you. Talk to pcopl 
who are productive. A chance to make a little money or come into some 
apparent.*** 

Birthday IJaby: You know what you want and arc very astute when it com! 
to dealing with others. You arc sensitive and loving but also practical. You wi 
fight for what you want and always look out for those you lov• 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
'· 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, January 20, 2006 page 24 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Top offensive line recruit Sam Young collllllits to Irish 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
The number of Irish offensive line recruits grew to a half dozen Thursday when 6-foot-7, 300­pound offensive tackle Sam Young verbally committed to play football for Notre Dame. 

Young, listed as the No. 2 offensive lineman in the nation by Scout.com, made his inten­tions known in a press confer­ence Thursday afternoon tele­vised by ESPNews. 
He attends St. Thomas Aquinas High School in Ft. Lauderdale, Fla., and registered 80 pancake blocks in his senior season. 
Matt Carufel, who committed to the Irish on Jan. 7, is the most recent offensive line recruit aside fromYoung. All six offensive line recruits -Young, Carufel, Dan Wenger, Chris Stewart, Bartley Webb and Eric Olsen -are rated among the top 52 offensive line prospects in the country by Scout. com. 
Young chose Notre Dame over Southern California. Michigan and Penn State were also in the running for his signature. 
"I just felt the most comfort­able with Notre Dame in terms of the three big factors I was look­ing at," Young said. "The aca­demics, the athletic program, and third, what I thought was most important, how I fit in on campus with the other players." 

Notre Dame has tripled the number of offensive line recruits from last season, when Paul Duncan and Michael Turkovich were the only big men to sign with the Irish. Duncan and 
see YOUNG/page 22 
ND BASKETBALL 

Something to prove 
Irish and Marquette 
Notre Dame wants to set for showdown in keep its momentum noisy Bradley Center after win over DePaul 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN By KEN FOWLER 

Associate Sports Editor Sports Writer 

Notre Dame is familiar with Two years after Georgetowntop scorers, given point guard 

erased a six-point deficit inChris Quinn's 24 points per 
the final 55 seconds of Notre game in four Big East contests­
Dame's Big East opener, the
good for second in the league 

Irish return to McDonoughbehind Rutgers guard Quincy 
Gym for the first time sinceDouby's 26. 
that loss Saturday at 4 p.m.
But they will encounter anoth­

seeking revenge against the 
er ofrensive threat who has been struggling Hoyas.

just as effective in league play "I try not to think about ii,"
when the Irish travel to Irish coach Muffet McGraw

Marquette tonight for a 9 p.m. 

said of Notre Dame's 76-73 
game at the Bradley Center in loss on Jan. 7, 2004.

Milwaukee. 
Georgetown (8-8, 1-4 Big
Golden Eagles senior forward 

East) enters this weekend's
Chris Novak is averaging 22.6 

contest having lost four of itspoints per game in five Big East last five, while the Irish beat games, including a 41-point per­DePaul Tuesday in the Joyceformance against Connecticut on Center to snap their own four­Jan. 3. 
At left, point guard Chris Quinn 'dribbles up the right side of the court during Notre Dame's 71-67 of-live losing streak.
Irish coach Mike Brey stressed 

loss to Michigan on Dec. 3. Right, Irish guard Lindsay Schrader provides tough defense on see EAGLES/page 22 DePaul's Khara Smith during Notre Dame's 78-75 victory over the Blue Demons Tuesday. see HOYAS/page 22 

HOCKEY 


Tean1 needs win in league game 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

It will take a little hard work and a few lucky breaks, but the as-of-late lowly Irish hock­ey team could become the cream 6f the CCHA crop in the matter of weeks. 
The CCHA has become a logjam in recent weeks. Only four points separate the 10th­place Irish from 5th-place Michigan, and it is a relatively small six point jump to where Northern Michigan inhabits second place. 
The Irish (5-8-3, 7-12-3 overall) open a two-game away series against the 
see HOCKEY/page20 

SMC SWIMMING 

Belles meet K'zoo in big MIAA meet 
Squad is ready after intense trC;Zining over long dual-meet layoff 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA and 
BECKI DORNER 
Sports Writers 
The Belles' swim team is not focused on the final score of today's meet at Rolf's Aquatic Center against Kalamazoo, but rather with hopes to improve individual and team times. 
Coming off a hard two weeks of winter training, Saint Mary's head coach Lynn Kachrnarik is positive that the team will con­tinue to improve. 

"The team really took on this challenge and had a fantastic two-week training camp," she said. 
The team's diligent work ethic its meet against Alma Wednesday, as the team came away with three first-place fin­ishes -two by senior captain Kelly Nelis. Nelis won the 500 and 1000-yard freestyle and Karla McGough took first in the 
see WATER/page 20 


SMC BASKETBALL
MEN'S SWIMMING MEN'S TENNIS WSWIMMING 
TRACK NBA 
LLI 

Notre Dame vs.
u 
Saint Mary's at 
Notre Dame 

Michigan State Opener
z Notre Dame faces No. 
The Irish will volley 
Alma 

The NBA announced 16 Northwestern and 
against three top-10 it would suspend the
:3 

= Notre Dame hopes for The Irish host theirunranked Cleveland 
teams in the opening 
The Belles want to 
Knicks' Antonio Davis 
State this weekend. 

first meet of the newweeks of the new year. 
secure their second 

an easy win ?ver the five games for entering
c:c 

Spartans. 
year in the Loftus Center. 
straight league win. 
the stands. 
!; 

page 21 page 16 page 16page 20 page 16 page 15
en 

•
• 
~ 



