
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 89 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY23, 2006 
STUDENT SENATE 
Affleck-Graves introduces vision 
Group sees short-and long-term campus plans 
detailing plans for a new col­lege town he called the "Northeast Neighborhood Project" -a mix of retail, res­idential and office complexes intended to "revitalize" the area south of campus. 
He also outlined the project­ed location of new buildings on current campus maps and flipped through PowerPoint slides of architectural sketch­es, often describing projects as "very beautiful" and eliciting murmured "wows" from sena­tors who apparently agreed. 
Projects to be tackled in the near future, Affleck-Graves said, include expanding the 
see SENATE/page 8 

By MADDIE HANNA 
Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame will never again say it dreamed too small -not after its current plans for cam­pus development. 
The resounding "bigger and better" theme of University President Father John Jenkins' inaugural address was the focus of Wednesday's Student Senate meeting, as Executive Vice President John Affleck­Graves presented both short and long-term campus master plans to senators. 
Affleck-Graves projected five, ten and even 50 years into the University's future, 
Trustees convene at Saint Mary's College 
Chair lauds SMC for professional development 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saini Mary's Editor 
Chair of tho Saint Mary's Board of Trustees Debbie .Johnson Sehwielwrt told stu­dents in an address Wednesday that tlwir Saint Mary's ndueation is invalu­a hI n , e ru: oura g i n g them to take advantage of every 
opportunity  thn  College  
offers.  
"l'rofnssionally to  the  out­ 
sidl~  world,  we  arc  an  

ahsolutnly stellar 1~ducational institution," Sehwiebert said in tlw West Wing of the din­ing hall. "Make no doubt about that, our reputation is know not only nationally but internationally." 
Schwiebert, along with other members of the Board of Trustees, is on campus for the quarterly Board meetings, which begin today. Trustees had a full schedule of activi­ties Wednesday afternoon ineluding visiting elasses and touring the "Poetas y Pintores" art exhibit in the Moreau Gallery. 
A 1974 Saint Mary's gradu­ate, Schwiebert said as a stu­dent she thought she would use her English Literature major to embark on a high school teaching career. Instead, she joined John Deere Company shortly after 
see TRUSTEES/page 4 


Police, Kramer plan 
city watch program 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
In anticipation of student housns emptying for spring brnak -and in light of bur­glaries that occurred over wintl)r brnak -Kramer Propertins owner Mark Kranwr and representatives from tlw South Bend Police I>npartnwnt held an informa­tion snssion Wndnesday to advis1~ off-campus students of safnty nwasures and to dis­cuss tho initiation of a stu­dent noighborhood watch program. 
Dospitn this goal, no off-campus students attended the meeting. Two representa­tives from Student Senate's Committee for Community Helations were on hand to relay the information to the student body. 
Kramer was disappointed more people did not attend the meeting but encouraged off-campus students to call the police department and join the student neighbor­hood watch program. 
"I think it's very important that they get involved," Kramer said. "We can all do our part, both as landlords 
see POLICE/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Student 
•


magazine publishes 
"The Thatcher" will appear online weekly 
By JOE PIARULLI 
News Writer 
A group of Notre Dame stu­dents is trying to save the world. 
The literary world, that is. 
"The Thatcher," a weekly online literary magazine at www.thethatcher.org, releasnd its first issue Feb. 1 with the goal of creating a writing eom­munity based around dnvelop­ing ideas, working personally with writers and producing tho best fictional eontent possible. 
"It's an idea that has evolved and will evolve some more," Christopher Mahoney, the cur­rent Lead Editor of "The Thatcher," said. "It's a pretty open-ended strueturn, and it. focusns on the way the group works and the way the group is thinking." 
Unlike many literary maga­zines, which either simply reject or accept submissions, the journey from submission to publication in "Tho Thatdwr" is extensive and distinct. Tho edi­tors often develop stories by committee. 
"It's a remarkably organic process," Mahoney said. "Both of lour first two stories! started out as just a couple paragraphs, and they ended up in places we never expectnd they would, but they were faseinating, internst­ing plaens." 
The position of Lead Editor of "The Thatcher" switehns nvery month between the four nditors 
see THATCHER/page 6 


Readership stirs controversy 
By MARY KATE MALONE Assis1anr News Editor 
The Collegn Hnadership Program is just 01111 step away from becoming a rnality at Notre Dame, and the Club Coordination Council -which is litdng a 3.75 percent budget cut in order to fund the program -is fighting to reclaim the money it stands to lose. 
The Head(Jrship Program, whieh provides major newspa­pers to eollcges around the nation, will be funded by a por­tion of a $15 student activity fen increase and by a rndudion to the fixed allocations of the Club Coordination Council (CCC) and the Council of Hepresentatives 
see PROGRAM/page 4 page 2 


INSIDE COLUMN 
Do you ever wonder ... 
Here are a few questions that are likely to make some people angry. My friends and I have often wondered about these issues, and I think I speak for a majority of Notre Dame Students when I say I'd love to Sam Pandolfo know the answers. 
Advertising
Number 1: How 
Executive
much does it actually cost to eat in the dining hall? Seriously. Does it really cost $1 0? Nothing against our dining hall staff who do an excel­lent job preparing our food -the cake is sometimes dry but that's a minor complaint -but where in God's green earth does $10 times however many students worth of meal plan money go? 
Then there's the fact that people don't even use all 14 meals a week, ND Food Services saves money on our meals when we pack a brown bag with two sips of water, a rotten apple, three halves of a PB&J sand­wich and a granola bar. All I'm say­ing is, I'd love to see the financial statements for Food Services. Furthermore, thinking about the fact that I would be $12,000 less in debt when I graduate if I didn't have to purchase a meal plan makes me sick when I eat sea nuggets and drink carbonated cherry water. 
Number 2: How hard is it to make a good pizza? Sbarro wasn't available for comment, so we'll revisit this one at a later date. 
Number 3: Is NDSP for real? I've heard so many horror stories about how people have been treated by our police force. I seriously wonder how they escape lawsuits sometimes. I know they keep us safe and look out for our own good -thanks for that -but I've heard of people who are old enough to make their own deci­sions talked to like children, I've wit­nessed students being chased into their dorm and tackled and personal­ly, I've gotten parking tickets for absolutely no reason. (Note: I love NDSP and all of its employees. Please do not tow my car or arrest my friends.) 
Number 4: Does Notre Dame Stadium really have jail cells in it? Apparently, this is true. I'm not going to elaborate. I just thought you would like to know. 
Number 5: Parietals -why? How realistic are these monastic-life inspired boundaries? I'm a firm believer in the school of thought that if enough people are breaking a rule that doesn't hurt anyone, damage anything, or infringe on anyone else's freedom then it shouldn't be a rule. Libertarian? Maybe. Believe me, I love being able to walk into the hall at 4 a.m. in my underwear and not worry about Sobering-up Sally walk­ing around, but given the alternative of having to toss her out at 2 a.m. I would gladly put on sweatpants. 
One final note: I need a date to Zahm's Decade Dance coming up after spring break. We'll get Grab 'N Go beforehand, run from NDSP leav­ing the dance, and ... you see where I'm going here. E-mail me if you're interested. 
Contact Sam Pandolfo at 
spandolfo@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
In the Feb. 21 issue of The Observer, a Scene article incorrectly said the film "SubUrbia" would take place in the Washington Hall Lab. The film will be shown this weekend on the Washington Hall main stage. The Observer regrets this error. 
Thursday, February 23, 2006 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD EAT A MEAL WITH SOMEONE, WHO WOULD IT BE AND WHY? 





Ali Mooers Pat McMulty Julie Ruffin 
senior senior junior Badin off-campus Walsh 
"A chicken "Beno, Fergus, "Your mom. " "Pat McMulty, "Ali Mooers, "Claire dinner with Ned Taryn and because I take because she Chiappetta Devine." Channy because pity on him? thinks I'm cool. " because she's 
that would mean I'm in Perth, Australia." 

Lohan: Don't call me a 
'teen queen' 

In an interview in the 
March issue of Allure maga­
zine, now on newsstands, the 
19-year-old says she wants 
to be considered a serious 
actress and rejects her. 
youthful, party-girl image. 
"I hate it when people call 
me a teen queen," Lohan 
says in an interview. 
Lohan, star of family 
friendly movies such as 
"Freaky Friday" and 
"Herbie: Fully Loaded," has 
recently graduated to more 
grown-up roles, acting oppo­
site Meryl Streep, Lily Tomlin 
and Tommy Lee Jones in 
Robert Altman's "A Prairie 
TODAY a: 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 

3: 
..... 
<
(,) 0 




lAURIE HUNT !The Observer 
Notre Dame football coach Charlie Weis speaks in Cavanaugh Hall's chapel Wednesday to inform dorm residents about Hannah & Friends. Cavanaugh's Dance­a-thon will raise money for the non-profit foundation, which Weis started with his wife Maura to help young people affected by autism and other global delays. 
OFFBEAT 

Mateo County District Attorney's Office. 
Authorities said Steve Almanza and Valerie Zahn stopped by a Taco Bell for a snack after their wedding Oct. 29, and Almanza ran inside while Zahn stayed in the car with the engine still running. 
Ticas-Soto, who was unarmed, got into the dri­ver's seat and drove off with Zahn still inside, authorities said. She jumped out, and Ticas-Soto continued driving into a Taco Bell sign in the parking lot. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Home Companion," due in theaters in June. 
Man gets three years in newlywed carjacking 
SAN MATEO, Calif.-A man accused of carjacking a newlywed couple with the bride in her wedding dress still in the vehicle was sen­tenced to three years in prison after pleading no con­test to charges Tuesday. 
Alan Ticas-Soto, 22, initial­ly pleaded not guilty on Nov. 29 to one count of carjacking and one count of being under the influence of a con­trolled substance, but changed it to a plea of no contest, according to the San 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 


awesome. 
IN BRIEF 
Bishop Thomas J. Gumbieton of Detroit will speak at 7:30p.m. today in the Carey Auditorium in the Hesburgh Library as part of the Catholic Think Tank lec­ture series. 
The Saint Mary's Book Club will meet today in the Student Center Lounge from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30p.m. The group is start­ing "A Hand Maid's Tale" by Margaret Atwood. 
Gabriel Meyer, author of "War and Faith in Sudan," will give a lecture at 7:30 p.m. today in room 131 of DeBartolo Hall. 
Haiti Awareness Week con­cludes Friday with a Haitian­American Mass at 5:00 p.m. in Pangborn Hall and a Haitian­African Dinner at 6:00 p.m. in CoMo Lounge. Both are free and open to the public. A $5 suggested donation for the din­ner will be collected in support of the four Haitian orphans who work with Notre Dame's Haiti Program. 
The Irish men's basketball team will square off with Big East rival Marquette Saturday at the Joyce Center. Tip-off is scheduled for 7:30p.m. 
Award winning author Ed Falco will give a reading on Wednesday, March 1 at 7:30 
p.m. in the Hospitality Room of Recker's. Falco's latest novel, "Wolf Point," was a 2005 New York Times Editor's Choice. The event is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


~ 

HIGH 15 HIGH 18 LOW -3 LOW 5 
HIGH 35 HIGH 23 HIGH 40 HIGH 25
..I 
LOW 22 LOW 17 LOW 22 LOW 5 
Atlanta 53 143 Boston 46 I 32 Chicago 39 I 27 Denver 52 I 18 Houston 64 I 59 Los Angeles 67 I 46 Minneapolis 28 I 17 New York 45 I 33 Philadelphia 48 I 33 Phoenix 67 I 45 Seattle 47 I 38 St. Louis 53 I 33 Tampa 79 I 63 Washington 52 I 35 
-----~----------------.., 
Thursday, February 23, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Dor111111eal auction to feature ND celebrities 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
Brnen-Phillips Ilull will host il'> 22nd annual Meal Auetion today and give studnnts an opportunity to bid on meals with cam pus celebrities such as Notre Dame filOtball mach Charlie Weis, Irish quartnrbac:k Brady Quinn and an all-male a cappella group, The Undnrtones. 
Anthropology professor James McKenna, Director of Alumni Helations Chuck Lennon, Irish defensive back Ambrosn Wooden and the Notre Dame leprechaun mao;c:ots am other familiar names associated with the audion. 
Weis contributed to the auction by oll'ering a tour of the football loeker room and a photo opportu­nity. 
"!The meals! are a fun thing to do with friends -go eat with a big campus nanw. and it's an easy way to make a donation," said sophomore Allison Nowotarski. commissioner of the Meal Audion. 
Nowotarski said in addition to llw twm1ty mnals featurnd in the main auction, BP also will host a silent auction with scweral gift cerlifkatns to local restaurants and gift bcL'ikeLo; made by dilliJrent sec:tions of tlw dorm. 
Funds from this year's auction will be given to llannah & Frionds. the non-profit foundation begun by Maura and Charlin Weis dedieatnd to improving the quali­ty of life for young people affected by autism and other global delays. In past years, funds raised by the Meal Auction were donat­ed to the American Diabetes Association. 
"With the success of the football season, I wanted to lusel an organization dose to the Notre Dame community that everybody was familiar with and had a con­nection to," Nowotarski said. 
StudenL'i can purchase llannah & Friends bracelets in LaFortune during the auction to enter their names into a drawing to win a football signnd by Brady Quinn. 
In 2005, BP brought in approxi­mately $5,800, but this year organizers hope to raise that number to least $6,(){){). 
"As a freshman last year, I went a little crazy and bought a whole bunch of groups," Nowotarski said. "It's fun to be able to say that you were able to meet the names that were big at Notre Dame when you were there." 
The meal that generated the highest bids in past auctions was the dinner with Father Mark Poorman, which also includes tours of thn President's ollice, the Basilica, and last year, a tour of Notre Dame's underground tun­nels. 
The year's Meal Auction will take place today from 6 p.m. to 9 
p.m. in the Burgnr King area of J.aFortune. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 

Microsoft CIO to give lecture 
Markezich will speak as part of Distinguished Engineering Series 
Special to The Observer 
Ron Markezich, chief infor­mation ol'!icer and vice presi­dent of managed solutions for Microsoft Corp., will deliver a public lecture at 12:50 p.m. March 3 in the DeBartolo Hall auditorium. !lis talk, "Directions in Information Technology," is part of the Distinguished Engineering Lecture Series presented by the College of Engineering. 
Markezich 's lecture will focus on directions in informa­tion technology management and how it adds business value. He also will discuss his own perspective on careers in the technology industry. 

Markezieh is responsible for the delivery of information technology services for Microsort as well as the improvement of Microsoft elli­ciency and productivity. llis teams have simultaneously incn~ased employee productivi­ty and reduced the cost of information technology. 
Markezich, who joined Microsoft in 1998, also has worked in information technol­ogy infrastructure and line-of­business application organiza­tions. Before joining Microsoft, he held a position with Accenture in the electronics and high tech group. 
Markezich was graduated from Notre Dame with a bach­elor's degree in management information systnms. 
The Distinguishnd Engineering Lecture Series exposes students to enginenrs who have achieved at t.hn high­est levels in their speeif'ic fields. Speakers !'rom various disciplines are featured throughout each academie year to give students an overview of the diverse oppor­tunities available in engineer­ing and to provide them with a better understanding of the role of engineering in soeinty and the impact they, as cmgi­neers, can have. 


ND celebrates Robinson Center 
Special to The Observer 
The Hobinson Community Learning Center (RCLC) will celebrate its fifth anniversary Friday from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. Sponsored by Notre Dame, the center is located at 921 N. Eddy St., South Bend, Ind. 
The celebration will feature guest speakers Hev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., Notre Dame's president, and South Bend Mayor Stephen Luecke. Entertainment will be provid­ed by the local steel drum ensemble, I Believe I Can. The festivities also will include recognition of community vol­unteers and Notre Dame facul­ty, staff and students whose efforts support the center's programs.. 

Founded in 2001, the RCLC is a community-driven educa­tion center that oiTers numer­ous programs and activities sponsored by local agencies and organizations, including health education and screen­ings, GED and English-as-a­Second-Language classes, chil­dren's programming, youth tutoring and al'tor-school pro­grams. It also features a Computer Teaching and Learning Centnr, which is equipped with 20 computers and provides instruction and free Internet and e-mail access. 
Some 500 residents and vol­unteers participate each week in on-site HCLC programming, and as many as 250 Notrn Dame students, faeulty and staff volunteer with center programs. Somo 35 University departmnnts and residence halls arn involved in HCLC partnerships. 




BP Meal Auction 
Come bid on some of the most appetizing campus celebrities ND has to offer! Thursday Feb 23 
6:00-9:00 
LaFortune Huddle Area 
All proceeds go to benefit Hannah and Friends. A Few Campus Celebrities include: 
"-' 
~  
F  1:>  a  
a th  p r 0  t h e  
e  ~  r  
r  &  H  
p0 0  A t h  e s b  
r  1  u  
m  e  r  
t  g  
~  ~  h  ~  

Also, enter $2 raffle for autographed Brady Quinn Football and receive a Hannah and Friends bracelet! 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 23, 2006 

Trustees 
continued from page 1 
graduation, eventually advancing to her current position as director of the Communication Services Center of Excellence. 
Schwiebert said the profes­sional world of the 1970s was dominated by men who had never interacted with a woman on a professional level. One dealer initially refused to 
women," she said. 
Schwiebert said she was not conscious of the profes­sional and life skills she was learning at the College but appreciated them in retro­spect once she entered the workforce. 
"All of these things are important and they are things that you learn here but I am not sure that we really understand while we are in college that those are the things you are acquiring. 
I know I did-
n't." 
Out of her 

work with her. "We are desperately four years at The wives of Saint Mary's
in need ofpeople
some of her also sprung colleagues today in the business life-long friend­were hesitant world that are ships, and to allow their Schwiebert
willing to stand up
husbands to encouraged
and lead and make
take business students to trips with her, decisions with develop and Schwiebert cherish similar
integrity."
said. bonds. Her In the early group of months at friends has
Debbie Johnson John Deere -Schwiebert depended each and through­other through
chair 
out her 30-painful times,
SMC Board of Trustees 
year career at the company -Schwiebert said she was able to rely on the leader­ship skills and Christian principles she learned at Saint Mary's. 
"Saint Mary's College is committed to developing women to be leaders in the world of work, home, church and community and that is a distinct advantage because they know you have that leadership training," she said. "We are desperate­ly in need of people today in the business world that are willing to stand up and lead and make decisions with integrity." 
The liberal arts education at Saint Mary's teaches its graduates not only to think critically, Schwiebert said, but also grants them lessons in how to communicate ideas effectively both orally and in writing. 
"I think we take it for granted here because it is our standard of operation," she said. "It's the way we do business, but it is a unique advantage that we have that is part of our liberal arts education." 
Schwiebert said some of her colleagues deny them­selves professional opportu­nities because they are unable to speak in front of a group and are unwilling to learn the crucial skill. Conversely, Saint Mary's stu­dents are well prepared for the professional world and are open to learning the things they don't know, she said. 
Schwiebert said a value­based education -like that offered by her alma mater ­is critical in the business world today. 
"Another thing we learn [at Saint Mary's] is the key is how to act with good integri­ty," she said. "There are many situations today in business where values are in question and people have difficulty living up to their values." 
Schwiebert said she explored her faith and looked to the Sisters of the Holy Cross to learn the value of service. 
"The example [of' service] of the Sisters is something you will carry with you because it is a visible sign of their commitment to women and the education of 
Schwiebert 
said, including 
the death of a 

friend's child and the illness of another's husband. 
"I have been blessed that my roommates from Saint Mary's are still my friends today," Schwiebert said. 
As a woman's career advances, it is important for her to consider carefully how she will spend her money, she said. Schwiebert recalled making her first $25 donation to Saint Mary's -what then seemed like a large sum. 
"I wanted to make sure that the wonderful experi­ence I had here would con­tinue," she said. 
The Board's agenda for today and Friday includes the completion of a thorough review of the budget and discussion about growth at the College, Schwiebert said. Student Trustee Jill Vlasek and ten student government officers will attend various committee meetings. 
Reporters are not permit­ted to attend the sessions. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at Onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

Progra01 
continued from page 1 
Collaboration Fund, student body president Dave Baron said. 
But CCC president Beth O'Shaughnessy said the group's allocation reduction is unfair to the 300-plus clubs and organiza­tions that rely on it for funding. 
"Whoever feels College Readership is an appropriate use for student activities should find a way to pay for it," O'Shaughnessy said. "They shouldn't ask dubs to be the ones to bear the burden ... we will fight for the interest of the clubs because that's who we're elected to represent." 
The dispute boils down to hard numbers, with the CCC claiming it will be seriously stripped of its resources and student body pres­ident Dave Baron adamantly maintaining that the group, in fact, will have more money. 
Baron argues the CCC will be allocated more than ten percent more money than it received this year, which is more than enough to cover inflation, he said. 
"It's a major loss of money that students are going to lose," Mac Russell, the chair of the CCC's (budget) hard line committee, said in disagreement. "Every club on campus is going to be affected by it." 
CCC attended Wednesday night's Senate meeting to present a resolution to reinstate the fiXed allocation level for clubs and organizations. The visit resulted in a heated exchange between Senate members -specifically, Baron-and O'Shaughnessy. 
Baron launched into a detailed explanation of the Senate's deci­sion to pass the resolution cutting the percentage of budget money received by the Clubs and Organizations, emphasizing that campus clubs actually would be receiving more money next year and that the CCC was making an unreasonable request. 
When interrupted by O'Shaughnessy, Baron said, ''I'm still talking." 
Baron's administration has devoted much of its energy to bringing the Readership Program to campus permanently. The best way to do that initially, Baron said, was to increase the student activity fee from $80 to $95 -an increase the Student Senate approved 22-5 in October 2005. 
Pending the approval of the Financial Management Board, $10 of that fee will go toward the College Readership Program, and the remaining $5 will go toward student union groups to make up for inflation since 2002, the last time the student activity fee was increased. 
Generally, the activity fee helps to fund major operations of stu­dent clubs or organizations on campus, which is why Hussell does not believe it should fund a private newspaper program. 
"Students need to know that their money is going off-cam­pus," Russell said. "It has not been advertised well enough so that students know where it's going." 
If granted funding, the Program will provide 1,600 daily newspapers for the student body (560 copies of USA Today, 560 copies of the New York Times and 480 of the Chicago Tribune). 
But Russell said that number of papers is not sufficient to serve the 8,000 undergraduates paying for it. 
"One-in-four students [will have] access to a newspaper, [but] every student ha.:; access to a SUB [Student Union Board] event or to a club event or to an HPC [Hall President's Council] event," Russell said. "I don't see why we're giving money to one­in-four instead of one in one." 
Though the Program was backed and approved under Baron's leadership, student body president-elect Lizzi Shappell will make the final appeal to the Financial Management Board for the allocation in April. She said she will work vigorously to imple­ment an "aggressive recycling program" to ensun~ several stu­dents can read the same copy of a newspaper each day. 
"We believe that every interest­ed student will be able to read a paper," Shappell said. "The aca­demic benefits for campus out­weigh the argwnenl<> against the program. Student money is not 'being sent off-campus,' rather it is being invested into a program that provides national and inter­national news for our communi­ty." 
Plus, Baron said, the Board of Trustees has approved the pro­gram already. 
"To renege on that now would be inappropriate and would be almost a violation of trust," Baron said. 
The College Headership Program is run by USA Today and provides access to major national newspapers at colleges throughout the nation. Student government offered a 30-day pilot of the program last spring and received a flood of positive feedback, Baron said. 
"The number of e-mails we got saying 'keep this going' and the number of e-mails when we stopped [the pilot] saying 'what the heck happened?' was enor­mous," Baron said. "It was prob­ably the most response I've ever seen on any student government initiative we've done." 
Baron said he understands the CCC wants to maximize its resources but noted the Council will have the opportunity to appeal for more funds from the student union group allocation later this year. 
"Any group is always going to have their hand out wanting more and more money," Baron said. "But we need to make a budget balance ... and that's what we did with this proposal. 
"The piece of the [CCC budget] pie is a [lower] percentage, but it's a much bigger pie [because] we increased the amount of money going in [when we increased the student activity fee]," Baron said. 
O'Shaughnessy and Hussell said they are unconvinced stu­dent government acted in the best interests of the student body. 
"Just because we can do some­thing doesn't mean we should," O'Shaughnessy said. "Student government is responsive, but it should al.:;o be responsible." 
At Wednesday's Senate meet­ing, Baron called the CCC's cur­rent campaign "sort of disingenu­ous," given the delayed response to the Senate's October resolu­tion. 
"You say that you do have a problem with the fiXed allocation being lowered,'' Baron said. "But those [percentages] are entirely arbitrary ... You're getting more money ... The money's going towards you and I think it's going to benefit you." 
But O'Shaughnessy defended her position and the timing of her group's current proposal. 
"It took us a long time to catch on -this was a complicated plan," she said. "I didn't know how to maneuver within this body [of student government] ... We aren't trying to be disingenu­ous. In fact, I'm trying to be bla­tantly obvious." 
Maddie Hanna contributed to this report. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at Mmalone3@nd.edu 

p I 
A 
N 0 
~ 
IJNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAM~ 
DE!,ARTMEKT 01:" MUSIC 

-~---------------------------------------------""'! 



ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, February 23, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE sERVICEs page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Pope Benedict names new Cardinals 
VATICAN CITY -Pope Benedict XVI nanwd 15 nnw cardinals Wednesday, includ­ing John Paul ll's longtime privatn secretary and prolatns from Boston and !long Kong, adding his lirst. installment to the elitn group of churdunm1 who will eloct his successor. 
Benedict road aloud the names during his wnekly gnneral audionce and said they would be elevatml during a March 24 cen1­mony at the Vatiean. 
Those dwsen to r11coive the "red hats" that tlw so-1:alled princos of the church wear indtuln tlw archbishops of Caracas, Venezuela; Sooul, South Korea; Bordoaux, Franco; Tolndo, Spain; and Manila, l'hilippinos. 
British bank robbers steal millions 
I.ONilON-A gang of armed robbnrs imper­sonating polko oflknrs tind up employees at a soutlwrn l·:ngland socurity company and stole tlw equivalont of $4:t5 million. the Bank of l·:ngland said Wmlrwsday in disclosing onn of tlw largest bank lwists in British history. 
Tho monny, about 25 million pounds in bank notns, was stolnn ovnrnight from a 1:ash center at Tonbridgn in Kent county, a bank spok1~snuLn said on condition of anonymity, according to bank policy. 
No onn was injured in thn robbory. 
Tlw bank spoknsman also said it was possi­bln that more than $4J.5 million was stolon, hut the final figure will not be known until tho sncurity company cornplotos its accounting. 
Tlw !wist at Socuritas Cash Managemont I.t<l. hogan whnn somo of the thieves, drnssnd as police ollkers, stoppml the firm's managnr as hn drovn home Tuesday. The manager got into tlwir car, which hn bdiewd to be a police vehido. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Workers split record lottery jackpot 
I.INCOLN, N11b. -Eight workors at a Nebraska nwatpacking plant aro r11ally bringing honw tlw bacon now: Thoy steprwd forward Wednnsday to elaim the biggest lottPry jackpot in U.S. history ­$:~h5 million. 
Tlw s1wnn nwn and one woman bought tlw winning l'owerball ticket at a eonvnn­inncn storn rwar the ConAgra ham proeoss­ing plant whern tlwy worked. At lnast thrnn of tlw winners an~ immigrants -two from Vietnam and orw from the Hepublic of Congo. 

Teenager convicted in brutal murder 
DIXON. Ill. -A teenage girl was eonviet­Pd Wednesday in tho killing of a 16-year-old rlassmate who was ehok1HI. bnaten and sawed into pinees after an argument over boys. 
Sarah Kolh, 17, fares up to 60 years in prison. 
Tho victim, Adrianno Heynolds, had just movnd to East Moline from Tnxas about two months bnforn she was killed. Prosecutors said shn was just trying to l'it in at a n11w school hut picked the wrong friond. 
On Jan. 21, 2005, Kolb, H11ynolds and sehoolmatn Cory c;regory were in Kolb's ear at a fast-food rPstaurant when the right hegan. Heynolds was killed and her body was burrwd. disnwmbored and hiddnn in two counties. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Vatican may canonize Indiana nun 
ST. MAI!Y-OF-TIIE-WOOilS-Thn19th cen­tury foundress of a community of nuns in wnstPrn Indiana has edgnd closer to Homan Catholic sainthood with the Vatican's approval of a sneond miradn -the reputed wring of a man's damagnd ey11sight. 
Mothnr Theodore Guorin, who founded the Sisters of l'rovidnnce eommunity n11ar Terre llaute, is ernditml with helping restore the 11yosight of Phil McCord, an employee at the order's mother house. 


Man hospitalized with anthrax 
New Yorker was accidentally infected after trip to Africa; not a public health threat 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -A New 
York City drum maker has 
been hospitalized with a 
ease of inhaled anthrax that 
ofl'icials say he may have 
contracted from the raw 
animal hides that he 
imporl<; from Ati·iea. 
Authorities said 
W11dnesday the infection 
appearod to be accidental ­
not terrorism -and did not 
pose a serious publie health 
thrnat. 
Vado Diomande, 44, had 
traveled recently to the west 
coast of At'rica and fell ill in 
Pennsylvania last week 
shortly alter he rnturned to 
this country with some 
hides, authorities said. 
It was not exactly clear 
how Diomande came into 
eontact with the doadly sub­
stanco, or whether it hap­
pmHld in Africa or in this 
country. But aides to Mayor 
Michael Bloomberg said it 
was related to his job mak­
ing drums from animal 
skins. 
At least four other people 
may have been exposed to 
anthrax spores, including a 
liunily member of th11 infeet­
ed man who worked with 
the hid11s, and three wore 
being treated with antibi­
otics, city Health 

Commissioner Thomas Agents with hazardous material suits arrive at the Manhattan apartment of Vado Frieden said. 
Diomande Wednesday. Diomande has been hospitalized with a case of Inhaled anthrax. 
"Every indication suggests 

that this is naturally occur­includes soaking the hides, Frieden said l>iomandP with the materials. 
ring anthrax," Frieden said. stretching thorn and scrap­was breathing on his own At the Pennsylvania uni­
Authorities were also ing them to remove hair. and appeared to be "doing versity whnn~ lw collapsed, screening for eontaminants Slw said investigators are better than peoplo with res­students wnre informed at the man's rentnd work seeking samples of the hides pir.:ttory anthrax usually about the anthrax casn but area in Brooklyn, in his to test lilr spores. do. worn assured they wore not vnhicle and in his Aides to the mayor said Diomande has been a in clangor. About I 00 people Manhattan apartment, l>iornande was recovering in dancPr and drumnwr sinco attnndod the pnrformanc1~. Bloom borg said. a hospital in Sayre, Pa., he was a child, aceording to according to Tnrri Day, a 
Anthrax sporps are found arter eollapsing during a a Web sito for his dance university spoknsman. in soil in many parts or tho performance with a daneP troupe. Wlwn he was a Weeks after the 2001 tm·­world. and livestock can company. Pennsylvania teenager he danced with tho rorist attacks, tho nation beeome infected by eating health offieials and the National Ballet of the Ivory was on high alert as contaminated soil or fend. Conters for Disease Control Coast and toured all over anthrax-laced letters sur­People can then pick up the and Prevention confirmed the world. lie fouml11d his faced in soveral placns, infeetion if they come into the ease as inhalation own dance company in including New York City. contact with eontaminated anthrax on Wednesday, the 1989, the Web site said. NBC anchorman Tom hides or other animal parts. mayor said. Authorities said they were Brokaw, two U.S. senators 
Dr. Lisa Hotz, a medical Anthrax infections must not conc11rned that thn and th11 offices of thn Nnw epidemiologist with the fed­be treated early with antibi­transport of the hides or the York Post worn among the eral Centers for Disease otics for the best chance of l'inished drums to the U.S. targets. Control and Prevention, said reeovery. The inhalation posed any hoalth risk, Th11 anthrax attacks killml health officials believe form of the disease has a because th11y believP live people a1:ross the eoun­Diomande may have inhaled fatality rate of about 75 per­Diomande was inl'neted try and sickened 17. The tho spores in a process that eent, even with antibiotics. while treating and working attacks are still unsolved. 
IRAQ 


Insurgents destroy Shiite dome 
out by Shiite militias -se11mnd to push "The terrorists in Iraq havn again
Associated Press 

Iraq doser to all-out eivil war than at proven that they are enemies or all 
SAMAHHA -Insurgents posing as any point in the three years since tho faiths and of all humanity," Bush said. police destroyed th11 golden dome ofone U.S.-l11d overthrow ofSaddam IIussnin. "The world must stand unitnd against of Iraq's holiest Shiite shrines Many leaders called lilr calm. "We are them, and steadfast bnhind the pnopln Wednesday, setting off an unprecen­ladng a major conspiracy that is target­ol'lraq." dented spasm of sectarian violence. ing Iraq's unity," said President Jalal British Prime Minist1~r Tony Blair also Angry crowds thronged the streets, Talabani, a Kurd. "Wp should all stand condmnned the bombing and plndgnd militiamen attaeked Sunni mosques, hand in hand to prevent the danger or a funds toward the shrinn"s reconstruc­and at l11ast 19 people were killed. dvil war." tion. 
With the gloaming dome of the 1 ,200-President Bush pledged American U.S. Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad year-old Askariya shrine reduced to help to restore the mosque after the and the top American eommander in rubble, some Shiites lashed out at the bombing north of Baghdad. which dealt Iraq, Gen. George Casey, called the United States as partly to blame. a severe blow to U.S. efforts to keep attack a deliberate attempt to foment 
The violence -many of the 90 Iraq from falling deeper into sectarian sectarian strife and warned it was a attacks on Sunni mosques were carried violence. "critical moment for Iraq." 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 23, 2006 
Police 
continued from page 1 
and as tenants, to get involved to curtail this activi­ty, and problems will be solved." 
Sergeant Lee D. Ross and Corporal Patrick 

"Folks know when they are student houses," Kramer said. "You're going to be targeted." 
If students see suspicious activity or are the victim of a crime, they should not hesi­tate to call the SBPD, Hechlinski said. He said the biggest obstacle for the police is getting citizens to report 
crimes or suspi­
cions. 


Thatcher 
continued from page 1 
-seniors Mahoney, Mike Seidl and Sarah French and junior Alexa Recio. According to French, "The Thatcher," is Mahoney's brainchild. 
While all the editors are English majors, they said they 
find their academic path almost
Hechlinski of "The key is ... to get "We'd rather 
the South come out and find 
an immaterial point. Mahoney
this information out
Bend Police out ... there's no 
points out that Notre Dame's 
Department into the harm as opposed 
most well known author, 
Nicholas Sparks ("The
(SBPD) intro­neighborhood there to coming out 
duced the later on and find­
Notebook"), was not an English
and to let
student ing out you got 
major. 
neighbor­everybody know burglarized," 
"It doesn't matter what back­
hood watch what,s happening.,, Hechlinski said. 
ground or what major someone 
at the talk The department 
is as long as you want to write," 
held at stepped up police 
French said. "We don't want
Patrick Hechlinski 
Perley presence and 
writing or submitting to a mag­
Elementary corporal went door-to-door 
azine to be intimidating. We 
School in South Bend Police to encourage peo­
welcome writers of all levels 
South Bend. 
The student version of the neighborhood watch program, modeled after a current program serv­ing about 20,000 people in the South Bend area, uses cit­izen vigilance to deter crime. 
Unlike the community neighborhood watch pro­gram, which designates "block captains" to serve as intermediaries between the police department and the general public, SBPD said it will directly contact all stu­dents in the program to inform them of crimes com­mitted in their neighborhood. When students know what crimes are taking place, they can take the necessary pre­cautions to avoid becoming a victim, I-Iechlinski said. 
"The key is ... to get this information out into the neighborhood there and to let everybody know what's hap­pening," he said. 
Ross and Hechlinski encour­aged students to submit their phone numbers and address­es to the police department to be added to the calling list. 
"The nice thing about hav­ing the police department call you when something happens is you know that the informa­tion that we're giving you is the facts and it's coming right off the police report," Hechlinski said. 
When students get informa­tion directly from the police -rather than through word of mouth or other sources ­there is less confusion about occurrences in the neighbor­hood, he said. 
Sergeant Ross advised off­campus students to safeguard their homes against burglars, especially during the upcom­ing weeklong spring break. Hoss recommended residents use timers for lights, ask a neighbor to clear snow from the sidewalk and lock all win­dows and doors. 
Kramer and SBPD officers said students should ask the police to watch their houses while on vacation as a free service provided by the department. Hoss said with morning, afternoon and evening patrols, one house may get three to six visits in a day. 
Kramer, who rents more than 60 houses in the South Bend area, is working with the police department to ensure the security of his rentals after two were bur­glarized over winter break. Kramer recommended resi­dents make their absences less obvious to potential bur­glars by minimizing "tell-tale signs" the house is rented by students -beer cans and plastic cups in the yard and leftover kegs. 
ing to Mahoney, was the idea that fictional short stories were not well represented at Notre Dame 
"Sometimes it seems that 'The Juggler,' the current literary magazine, kind of falls short of providing fictional prose con­tent, so we'd like to fill in that gap a little bit," he said. 
"The idea that 'The Thatcher' grew from was the idea that there were a lot of stories out there that just weren't getting told, or people started and did­n't finish, or hit a block or something like that." 
The staff of "The Thatcher" usually meets at least once a week and often arranges times with people who submit stories in order to discuss how their ideas can grow. 
"What we're hoping is that people will send their unfin­ished ideas and we'll work with the writer and we'd develop it into a bigger, better story." Mahoney said. 
The process has been rather inexact thus far. In fact, the edi­tors can't quite pin down an exact reason for the publica­tion's name, which they say is open to metaphors. 
'"Thatcher' is kind of open­ended, and we kind of figure 
that if you ask us enough times we'll just keep giving you differ­ent answers,'' Mahoney said. "We really don't want to hem ourselves into one way of doing things or one particular style or one particular ideology, and the name 'The Thatcher' reflects this." 
"The Thatcher" accepts almost any type of submission, from graphic novels to art sub­missions for the cover page, but the main priority is publishing fiction. 
"We're there for the stories that haven't been written, and we want everyone to be a part of ['The Thatcher']" Mahoney said. "No one else really is doing this sort of thing with short sto­ries." 
The editors are optimistic for the publication's future and hope it can improve the University's literary community. 
"This is something that is really, really helpful to writers, and we're hoping to expand it more to the Notre Dame cam­pus and make it more of a com­munity," French said. "We just want to make the Notre Dame writing community better." 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd.edu 
ple to be alert 

after 12 "one-on­one robberies" against stu­dents and professors occurred between Dec. 27 and Jan. 27. Since then, there have been no further reported student robberies in the area. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
and take personal interest in helping them become better writers." 
Since "The Thatcher," is not sponsored by Notre Dame, it does not have any length or content restrictions, and since it appears online, publication proves very inexpensive. 
One of the driving forces behind "The Thatcher," accord-




THE OBSERVER 






USINESS

Thursday, February 23 , 2006 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 


11,137.17 +68.11
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,691 151 1,586 2,442,958,200 
AMEX 1.833.85 +0.58 NASDAQ 3,191.47 +50.74 NYSE 8:128.20 +45.54 S&PSOO I ,292.67 +9.63 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 15.781.78 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 5,872.40 +14.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CP (INTC) 

-2.29 -0.47 20.15 NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ) 
+ 1.25 +0.51 41.26 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) 
+0.46 +0.09 19.67 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 

+1.18 +0.05 4.30 JDS UNIPHASE UDSU) 
-1.01 -0.03 2.95 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.70 -0.32 45.31 13-WEEK BILL +0.16 +0.07 44.52 30-YEAR BOND -0.95 -0.43 44.84 5-YEAR NOTE -0.35 -0.16 45.68 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.73 61.01 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) 0.00 556.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.38 84.33 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
118.4300 EURO 
0.8395 POUND 
0.5734 CANADIAN$ 
1.1487 




IN BRIEF 
Stock prices soar in wake of inflation 
NI•:W YOHK -A combination of moderate inl1ation and falling oil prices energized Wall Stnwt Wodnesday, sonding stocks higher as invostors grew optimistic about an end to the Fndnral Hesnrvn's interest rate hikes. 
Thn corn rate of inflation, which excludes en orgy and food. rose by a tame 0.2 percent in January, in linn with economists' forecasts. II igher prices for gasoline and electrieity sent the broader Consumer Price Index up 0.7 pnrcnnt last month, a greater increase than neonomists expected and the largest rise in priens in four months. 
The Fed. under new Chairman Ben Bnrnanke, is kenping a close watch on infla­tion. If higher energy eosts or any other fac­tors eausn inflation to spike, the Fed will con­tinue its strnak of short-term rate hikes in an attl~mpt to keep price increases under con­trol. 

FAiling of taxes may become required 
NEW YOHK -Whilo eleetronic filing of tax rnturns has boon an option for small businesses l(u· yoars, many small-to-medium sized corpora­tions are finding that e-filing is becoming a 
n~quirmnent. 
Starting with tax year 2005, corporations that havo morn than $50 million in assol<> and that file morn than 250 returns a year -including forms such <L'> W-2s and I 099s -are requirnd to elec­tronically filn J.'orm 1120 or 1120S, U.S. Corporation Income Tax Hoturn. The IHS is allow­ing eorporations, whoso returns are due March 15, to rnquest waivnrs from the rnquirmnent, but tho filet is, e-liling is likely to become increasingly routine li>r U.S. businesses. 
For tax year 2006, tho IHS is dropping the $50 million thrnshold dramatically, to $10 million, which will li>rce many more small corporations to tile electronically. And many sole proprietors, who don't own eorporations and who file their busi­ness tax returns on Schedule C attached to their 1040 forms, are also choosing e-liling as an option. 
Individual taxpayers are also turning into ardent e-lilors. Last year, there was an 11 percent increase in e-filed 1 040s. 

Stock drops after CEO scandal 
Company shares fall eight cents, close at $19 on New York Stock Exchange 
Associated Press 

DALLAS -Shares ol' 
HadioShaek Corp. fell 
Tuesday, the day after its 
chief executivn stepped 
down following questions 
about the accuracy of his 
resume. 

Thn company's shares fell eight cents to close at $19 on tho New York Stock Exchangn. 
David J. Edmondson worked nearly 11 years with HadioShaek Corp. before ho became presi­dent and CEO. But he stepp1~d down on Monday after less than a year at tho helm. 
The company's board said it had accepted Edmondson's resignation and promoted Claire Babrowski -executive vice president and ehief operating ol'licnr -to act­ing CEO. 
"One of the most impor­tant things we havn as a corporation is in tngrity and trust and we know we have to restore that back to the public," Executive Chairman Leonard Hoberts said. 
Edmondson last week acknowledged resume errors that included claims of earning two college degrons for which the school he attended has no records. He issued a brief statement Monday but did said it would hire an out­prised by the resignation, Bible Colloge. not discuss his resume. side firm to investigate. but hadn't expected it on a The sehool's registrar 
"At this time the board But that was canceled with holiday when financial told the Star-Tnlegram that and I have agreed that it is the resignation. markets were closed. records showed in the best interest of the Edmondson and the "H you think about his Edmondson eompleted company for new leader­board were negotiating a tenure, it's not as if he's only two semesters and ship to step forward so severance package and his led a turnaround of this that the school never that our turnaround plan departure; Hoberts said it's company," she said. "That oll'ered degrees in psychol­has the best possible worth less than $1 million being said, it would be dif­ogy. The school official chance to succeed, as I in cash. He said further ficult for the board, consid­declined to comment to know it will," Edmondson details will be disclosed in ering the things that have The Associated Prnss. said. a regulatory filing. come out, to find a reason Edmondson said last 
The Fort Worth Star­In 2004, Edmondson to keep him." week he believes that he Telegram first reported of received $616,154 in Edmondson, 46, joined received a theology diplo­errors with Edmondson's salary plus an $820,219 HadioShack in 1994 and ma called a ThG, but not resume on Feb. 14. The bonus while serving as had been CEO since May. the four-year bachelor of HadioShack board issued a chief operating officer, Edmondson had claimed science degree listed on his statement saying it stood according to the company's that he received degrees in resume. lie eould not doc­behind Edmondson, a proxy. The 2005 salaries theology and psychology ument the ThG diploma. move Hoberts said he for senior executives have from Pacific Coast Baptist lloberts said eompany regrets. not been disclosed yet. College in California, which background r.hecks did not 
After Edmondson Stacey Widlitz, analyst moved in 1998 to include academic verifica­acknowledged the errors for Fulcrum Global Oklahoma and renamed tion in 1994 as they do on Wednesday, the board Partners LLC, wasn't sur-itself Heartland Baptist today. 


Inflation strains household budgets 
Associated Press momentum in January, families' Excluding energy and food costs, budgets were strained. A separate though, "core" prices rose by a mod­WASHINGTON -People are feeling report, also released by the Labor est 0.2 pnrcent in .January, following the pinch from rising inflation. Department, showed that workers' a 0.1 percent increase in l>ecnmbor. 
"It's tough out there for most average weekly earnings, adjusted More expensive elothing and rww households," economist Joel Naroff for inflation, dropped by 0.4 percent cars were mostly blamed for the said after the government reported in January compared with a year ago. slight piekup in eore inllation. Wednesday that consumer prices gal­For most workers last year, pay­Fed ollicials are especially interest­loped ahead in January at the fastest checks didn't keep pace with inl1a­ed in the core inflation readings. By pace in four months. tion. excluding energy and food priees, 
The most closely watched inflation While the Bush administration has which ean swing widely from month barometer, the Consumer Price Index, talked often about the generally good to month, the core inl1ation gauge advanced by 0. 7 percent, compared shape of the economy, Democrats gives economists a better sense of with a 0.1 pereent dip in December. have expressed worries about low­how other prices are acting. The seesaw pattern mostly reflects and middle-income families strug­Fed ollicials don't want to see elo­gyrating energy prices. gling under the weight of rising prices vated energy prices feeding into the 
"Consumers continue to be battered and living paycheck to payeheck. retail prices of lots of other goods and by rising costs," said Naroff, presi­The main culprits behind January's services, something that would lead dent of Naroff Economic Advisers. higher CPI reading were rising ener­to a broader bout of inflation spread­
With overall inflation gaining gy and food prices. ing through the economy. 
I 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, February 23, 2006 
said. This means greater mixing of
Senate 
different types of rooms ­triples, doubles and quads, for
continued from page 1 example -within dorms "so 
law school, constructing an people can choose which they engineering facility, landscap­prefer," Affleck-Graves said. ing the area south of And painting an even bigger DeBartolo Hall to create a picture, Affleck-Graves said "Town Commons," renovating the University hopes to build a the student health center and center for social sciences south finishing the Jordan Hall of of the Hesburgh Center for Science described by International Studies, con­Affleck-Graves as "the bigg6lst, struct a new four-story Center most expensive building we've for Social Concerns and built on campus." replace "the most beautiful 
The 204,000-square-foot building on campus" -the building is projected to open Stepan Center. this August. "Imagine writing an exam 
Preliminary sketches of the when it doesn't rain on your law school were similarly paper," he said, drawing grandiose. The building is laughs. being designed with arches While research is still under­bigger than the supportive way, Affleck-Graves said a new arch beneath Lyons. student activities center might 
"Imagine the band marching fill the Stepan Center's current through there on a Saturday location. afternoon," Affleck-Graves There's also the possibility of said, turning to senators sit­building a new inn next to one ting on his left. of the campus lakes, Affleck­"[But] the retail has to work come all people, regardless of first the American flag." 
Looking at a "slightly larger Graves said, while still keeping for the campus and the city," color, gender, religion, ethnici­O'Neill senator Steve timeframe," Affleck-Graves some of the rooms in the cur­he said. ty, sexual orientation, social or Tortorello also questioned the said construction would likely rent Morris Inn available for Restaurants will not move economic class, and nationali­committee's proposal. begin on three new residence visiting families. into the district unless they ty." "If some dorms don't do it, halls within seven years. Two Plans for revamping the believe they can make between Committee chair Sarah Liu you're going to create the would be located east of University's athletic facilities five and seven million dollars a described the flag as a symbol impression that no one in that Pasquerilla East and Knott -are similarly long-term. The year, Affleck-Graves said, rev­of "tolerance .. . showing our dorm is accepting," he said. projects made possible by an athletic facilities master plan enue too large for Notre Dame acceptance of GLBTQ [gay, les­Tortorello said students agreement with the City of includes expanding and reno­students to generate alone. bian, bisexual, transgender, might start jumping to conclu­South Bend to close Juniper vating the Joyce Center as well Affleck-Graves said the less queer and questioning] stu­sions about "good dorms" and Road -while the other would as building new soccer, definite plans would be final­dents." "bad dorms," depending on be built next to McGlinn and lacrosse and softball stadiums. ized once appropriate donors But after heated discussion, which halls hung the flags. complete the row of West Quad But the most talked about were located. the letter was sent back to the But Community Relations dorms. plan of the past year has been committee for revision. committee chair Nick Guzman 
"We need to spread it out the proposed college town In other Senate news: Cavanaugh senator Liz said this would not be a worth­more -it's not to add more development. Affleck-Graves The Diversity Affairs com­Brown said she presented the less outcome. beds, but more space in the described the four-block set-up mittee presented a letter to idea to her dorm's hall council "Does [not hanging the flag] dorms," said Affleck-Graves, along the Eddy Corridor as "a senators urging rectors to and received a skeptical mean [the hall] is not a place who stressed that the mix of conventional stores you hang rainbow flags in support response. of inclusion?" Guzman asked. University's population would know and hopefully a couple of of "the spirit of inclusion at "I don't really see a guaran­"If we can all agree [on that not increase along with the restaurants ... maybe a Trader Notre Dame," a project to tee [that all rectors would impression]. then yes, that's campus expansion. Joe's." coincide with an upcoming hang the flags]," Brown said. exactly what it means." 
Notre Dame also plans to While stores moving into the "Stand Against Hate" cam­"I don't see how a spirit of This, Guzman said, is the renovate all of the current res­neighborhood would be inde­paign. inclusion flag on just a few reason behind the campaign ­idence halls, Affleck-Graves pendent of the University, The letter quotes Notre dorms really fosters [a spirit of that some halls might not be said. Affleck-Graves stressed the Dame's "Spirit of Inclusion" inclusion]." willing to show support for 
"[The goal) over the next ten importance of students giving statement, which reads, "Notre Brown also said since dorms GLBTQ questions. to 15 years [is] to go through feedback regarding what types Dame strives for a spirit of currently do not hang flags every dorm on campus of development they would like inclusion among the members prominently, "if we were going Contact Maddie Hanna at [andl redefine the space," he to see near campus. of this community ... we wei-to get any flag, it should be mhannal@nd.edu 

Whitehouse: Bush did not know about deal 
Debate over port transaction reaches new level 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Bush was unaware of the pending sale of shipping operations at six major U.S. seaports to a state-owned business in the United Arab Emirates until the deal already had been approved by his administration, the White House said Wednesday. 
Defending the deal anew, the administration also said that it should have briefed Congress sooner about the transaction, which has trig­gered a major political back­lash among both Republicans and Democrats. 
Bush on Tuesday brushed aside objections by leaders in the Senate and House that the $6.8 billion sale could raise risks of terrorism at American ports. In a forceful defense of his administra­tion's earlier approval of the deal, he pledged to veto any bill Congress might approve to block the agreement involving the sale of a British company to the Arab firm. 
Dubai Port's top American executive, chief operating 
officer Edward H. Bilkey, said the company will do whatever the administration asks to enhance shipping security and ensure the sale goes through. Bilkey said Wednesday he will work in Washington to persuade skeptical lawmakers they should endorse the deal. At least two Senate oversight hearings already are sched­uled. 
"We're disappointed," Bilkey told The Associated Press in an interview. "We're going to do our best to per­suade them that they jumped the gun. "The UAE is a very solid friend, as President Bush has said." 
Bush faces a rebellion from leaders of his own party, as well as from Democrats, about the deal that would put Dubai Ports in charge of major shipping operations in New York, New Jersey, Baltimore, New Orleans, Miami and Philadelphia. 
While Bush has adamantly defended the deal, the White House acknowledged that he did not know about it until recently. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME SUMMER SESSION 
JUNE 19-AUGUST4,2006 

The 2006 summer session wili begin on Monday, June 19 (enrollment), and end on Friday, August 4(final exams). Some courses-primarily in science and languaqes-will beqin ancl end before or after these dates. The Summer Session Bulletin contains cornplete schedule information. The Bu!ietin is available at th.e Summer Session Office (111 Earth Sciences Bldg.) beginning on Monday, February 27.1nforrnation on summer courses, as it appears in the Bulletin. is also available at the Summer Session website (www.nd.edu/-sumsess) 
Notre Dame continuing students-undergraduate and graduate students in residence during the spring semester of 2006 who are eligible to return in the fall-must use Web Registration (1) to register for summer courses and (2) to add or drop courses according to the add and drop dates specific to each course. The 'Web Registration PIN (personal identifJCation nurnber) for summer is available on insideND for all continuing students. Instructions for course registration (selection) are available at http://registrar.nd.edu. Course reference numbers (CRNs) are published in the Bu/!etin and at the Surnrner Ses>ion website. 
Web Registration will be available for summer registration from Wednesday, March 15, throuCJh the add and drop dates specific to each course. Students may re~Jister or make schedule changes whenever they choose during this period; no appoint­ment times are necessary. 
Air-conditioned and non-air-conditioned housing and (optional) summer rneal plans will be available. Forms for meal plans may be obtained at the Summer Session Office at any time durin(j the spring semester. Students may apply for summer housing online at www.nd.edu/-sumsess 
Tuifon for the summer session of2006 will be $598 per credit hour for undergradu­ate students and $314 per credit hour for graduate students, plus a$50 general fee. 
Anthropology 
Architecture 
Art 
Biology 
Business 
Chemistry 
Classical Languages 
Computer Applications 
Economics 
Engineering 
English 
Film 
French 
German 
History 
Irish Studies 
Italian 
Mathematics 
Music 
Philosophy 
Physics 
Political Science 
Psychology 
Sociology 
Spanish 
Theatre 
Theology 


Thurssday, February 23, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



OIN 
Thursday, February 23, 2006 
Catholic Q&A 
Why do Catholics fast and abstain from meat during Lent? 
This question often gets asked around this time, when some find the dining halls' practice of serving only fish or vegetarian entrees on Fridays during Lent unsatisfying. 
Fasting derives from our Jewish ancestors who practiced it as an example of piety. While Jesus condemns the fasting hypocrites, He does so because of their gloomy appearance for self-glorification (Mat­thew 6: 16), not because of the practice itself. The Apostles in the early Church kept the fast, combining regular fasting with their worship of the Lord (Acts 13:2). These and all acts of self-denial take us back to Jesus's first condition for discipleship: "If anyone wishes to come after me, he must deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me" (Luke 9:23, NAB). 
The practice of abstaining from meat on Fridays dates back to the first century, when early Christians would avoid consuming fleshy meat to commemorate the day of crucifixion (Friday), since it was the day when Christ sacrificed His flesh on the cross for our salvation. Fish was a natural substitute for meat, which was particularly appropriate given the early Christians' usage of the Greek word ichthus (''fish") as an acronym for "Jesus Christ, Son of God, Savior." 
Fast and abstinence have a seemingly natural home in Lent, a sea­son already focused on prayer, inward reflection, and penance in prepara­tion for the joy of the Resurrection at Easter. Throughout the history of the Church, however, the norms of fast and abstinence have gone through a number of changes. Prior to the 1960s, Catholics abstained from meat on all Fridays throughout the year, and fasted each day of Lent except for Sunday. In 1966, these requirements were reduced to abstinence from meat on all Fridays of Lent and fasting (eating only one full meal a day) on Ash Wednesday and Good Friday. Even so, Friday abstinence from meat (or some form of penance or self-denial) throughout the rest of the year is still very much encouraged. And while these norms apply to all Catholic Christians age 15-60, Christians of all traditions are encouraged to join in these pious practices. 
Through our Lenten practices of fasting and abstinence from meat and other luxuries, the Church otTers us a regular opportunity to deny ourselves so that we might better mold our lives after the example of Jesus Christ. 
Send uestions to Brett Perkins: Perkins.26@nd.edu! 
page 9 
Phone 
J.7800 
Main Office 
319 CoMo 
Retreats Office 
114 CoMo

Campus Ministry 
Web 

The Asian American Association here at Notre Dame has long benefited from Vince Niou's great leadership, but it is a pleasure to introduce him to many ot er members of the Notre Dame communi­ty. Vince is ajunior Marketing major and he lives in Keenan Hall. Vince's contribu­tions to the Asian American Association are indeed worthy of commendation. He 
i currently the AAA Vice President and has held many important positions during his time here. Last year as a sophomore Vi was the AAA Spiritual commissioner and AAA Freshman Retreat lead planner. 
Vince has already left a lasting impression through the Asian American Association activities he has founded. I do not know about any of the readers, but Ido not know many people who have founded one activity at Notre Dame, let alone two. Through his hard work and dedication Vince has founded the AAA Winter retreat and Grotto trip. If I were a betting man I would say the AAA is going to have to name some award after Vince soon; he has just done that much work. Vince has found time to minister in all of these activities while also being apart time instmctor at the Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute. Finally, to cap things off, on any given Thursday night at CoMo you may see Vince at Iron Sharpens Iron. Even with all he does for others, he still finds time to spiritually recharge himself. Thanks for sharing your faith with oth­ers Vince. Keep up the great work; Notre 
is much better for it. 
Let us know who out there is making adifference! Send nominations to Brian Vassel at bvassel nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 










IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, February 23, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Deus Caritas Est 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDilOR BusiNESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOlO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 63!-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint. I @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
ScENE DEsK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 l-4000) is publishtd Munday thr-ough Friday except during .exam and vacation periods. A subscription 10 The Observer is $100 for one ac.ademic year; $55 for one wnes{er. 
The Observer is published at~ POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall &nd address comcrion.s to: Notte Dame. IN 46556..0779 Th< Oboer= Periodical postage paid at Nou-e Dame P.O. Bo, 779 and additional maHing offoces. 024 South Dining Hall 
Norre Dame, IN 46556-0n9 
The Observer is 3 member ofthe Assodat«< Prts!l. AU rt:pmduaion rights m reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Katie Perry Kate Gales Joe Piarulli Tim Dougherty 

Marcella Berrios Tim Kaiser Viewpoint Scene Alyssa Brauweiler Chris McGrady Graphics Matt Hudson 
Pope Benedict XVI's first encyclical, Deus Caritas Est (God is Love), signed on Christmas Day, packs a lot of instruction into 25 readable pages. Part I of Deus Caritas Est {DCE) ana­lyzes human and divine love in terms of eros and agape. Addressed to "a world where the name of God is sometimes associat­ed with vengeance or even a duty of hatred and vio­lence," DCE tells that world of "the love which God lav­ishes upon us and which we in turn must share with others." But DCE is loaded with cultural, political and legal implications, arising from its assertion that "[l]ove of God and love of neighbor" are "inseparable." 
Part II of DCE is a discourse on "Caritas," the "practice" of love of neighbor. "fN]o one ought to go with­out the necessities of life." That "serv­ice of charity" is "first and foremost a responsibility for each ... member of the faithful" but it is also a duty of the Church at every level. 
"Christian charity" is not abstract. It is "first of all the ... response to immediate needs ... : feeding the hun­gry, clothing the naked, caring for ... the sick, visiting those in prison, etc." But people "need something more than technically proper care....They need heartfelt concern." Charity therefore cannot be "just another form of social assistance." Nor is charity a means of "proselytism," using aid to induce con­versions. Charity is an act of love and "[l]ove is free; it is not practised as a way of achieving other ends." 
Charity must not be at the service of "parties, ideologies" or "worldly strat­agems." Benedict responds to the Marxist claim that the poor "do not 

Charles Rice 
Right or Wrong? 

need charity but justice." Charity, they claim, serves injustice by making an "unjust system ... appear ... tolerable" and thus blocking "the struggle for a better world." Benedict rejects that approach as "an inhuman philosophy," sacrificing people of the present to "the moloch of the future....One does not make the world more human by refusing to act humanely here and now. We contribute to a better world only by personally doing good now." 
But what about justice? Doesn't the Church care about it? Yes, it does. But the "just ordering" of society and the State, is the role of "politics" and not of the Church. 
The "direct duty" to work for a just society belongs to the "lay faithful" rather than to the Church itself. "Fundamental to Christianity," says DCE, "is the distinction between Church and State." The Church should not be in politics, but it does have an educative role. To define justice is the job of practical reason. But to do its job, reason needs "purification....Here politics and faith meet." Faith liber­ates reason from its "ethical blindness sidiarity by supporting efforts of social forces, including the Church, to achieve justice. Civil justice, however, is not enough. "Love -caritas-will always prove necessary even in the most just society." The claim that "just social structures would make works of charity superlluous," says DCE, "masks a materialist conception ... that man can live 'by bread alone."' 
DCE encourages "cooperation" between State and Church agencies but insists that the State "must guar­antee religious freedom." Three days before he signed DCE, Benedict addressed the Curia on the teaching of Vatican II that religious freedom is required because "the human person is capable of knowing the truth about God" and because such truth "cannot be externally imposed" and "can only be claimed with God's grace in free­dom of conscience." 
A recurrent theme of Benedict's papacy is his criticism of the "dictator­ship of relativism" to which he called attention in his homily to the Cardinals before the Conclave in which they 
elected him. DCE contin­
ues this theme in its 

caused by the dazzling But people "need insistence on religious effect of power and spe­freedom and on the role
something more than
cial interests." DCE of the Church as moral traces Catholic social technically proper educator. Both rest on teaching from Leo Xlll's care . ...They need the reality that the truth Rerum Novarum in 1891 about God and morality
heartfelt concern.,, 
through John Paul II. That teaching offers guidelines that are valid for everyone. It does not, however, seek to impose on others "ways of thinking and ... conduct proper to faith." It aims "to help purify reason" by arguing "on the basis of reason and natural law" so as "to help form con­sciences in political life" and to "reawaken the spiritual energy" need­ed for justice to prevail. 
So the Church has a role to play in the fight for justice. DCE urges the State to follow the principle of sub-is objective and know­
able. That Truth, with a 

capital T, is a person, Christ. 
These·are only a few of the points in this innovative and challenging encyclical. Read it. It could change your way of thinking. And your life. 
Prof Emeritus Charles E. Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Thursday. 

The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Make war just 
Jess Heringer's Feb. 20 Letter to the Editor, "Is there another way?" caused me to inspect the realities of war, and it was an uncomfortable experience. I discussed the matter with friends, had a day of thought and wrote this letter, and I have come to the conclusion that abandon­ing the use of force is unjust and simply irresponsible. 
Christ is love incarnate, and I have wrestled a great deal with the almost undeniable contradiction between Christ's love and the horrors of warfare. Christ pro­claims truth which cuts both ways, against Left and Right. He commands us to do apparently contradicting things, such as loving our neighbors (Luke 10:26) and hating our fathers and mothers (Luke 14:26). It is strange to think that the same man told Peter to put away his sword and yet destroyed the den of money­changers at the Temple. 
Force, like money or knowledge, is only a tool, and it may be used for good or for evil, and as such is not evil in itself. I would most certainly prefer to live in a world without war, but not at the cost of living in a world with unchecked evil. Peace is not worth tolerance of slavery, and genocide is too high a price to pay for the luxury of complacency. 
A world which rejects the use of force would look very different from our own. In that world, democracy is merely an interesting quirk of Athenian history. In that world, the international slave trade flourishes under the protection of greedy warlords. In that world, the death factories of Auschwitz are silent, not because of Allied liberation, but because their hateful purpose has been fulfilled unchallenged. 
A world which rejects the use of force is not a world in which I would want to live. Abandoning others to the whims of tyrants and masters abdicates our responsibili­ty to make the world a better place. Instead of abandon­ing the use of force altogether, we must work harder to make it a precise and just tool for good. Is there another way? Yes, there is. Make war just. 
Jonathan Klingler junior Keenan Hall Feb. 22 
OBSERVER POLL 
Do you think the College Readership Program is the correct use for the student 
activities fee increase? 
Vote by today at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 


lSubmit aletterI 
"If you have only two pennies left in the world, with the first penny, you should buy rice to feed your family. With the second penny, you should buy a lily."
Ito the Editor at 1 
Japanese proverb 

:~ www nd··sm,·, co·b··serv·er com ~.
::: . ' . . . '. j ' ~} 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT .. 
Thursday, February 23, 2006 page II 
Let Lent change you 
Next Wednesday is Ash Wednesday, which marks the beginning of Lent. For 40 days, Christians around the world will prepare to celebrate and remember worthily the great events of Jloly Week culminat­
ing in the proclama- Father Richard  
tion of the  V. Warner  
Hesurrection of Jesus  
Christ on Easter.  FaithPoint  
During the days of  

the Lenten season, we try to remind ourselves of the importance of what it is we are preparing for: to deepen our love for Jesus Christ. Traditionally, we try to do this by engaging in extra moments of prayer, by showing more concern and attention to the poor and to those in need and by engaging in small sacrifices which remind us that these are not just normal days. 
But the deepest meaning and pur­pose of Lent is to joyfully embark upon a journey of personal conversion. It is a time for us to examine our attitudes, our habits and the priorities we place on different aspects of our lives, in order to conform our actions more to the life and the teachings of Jesus we read about in the gospels. 

Lent is a time for us to enter into a deepening of our personal call to holi­ness. It is the time when our best efforts will be assisted by God's grace. 
Conversion is a change of heart that leads to changes in our life that affect our behavior because of a reordering of our priorities and an examination of how we live out our values in the course of our daily lives (even on weekends). 
Many of our Notre Dame undergrad­uates are serious about deepening their spirituality during their years at Notre Dame. You only need to attend a hall Mass, spend time at the Grotto, participate in a Campus Ministry­sponsored event, among other things, to understand the truth of this state­ment. 
We are susceptible to the amoral and immoral tendencies which sur­round us and create much of our cul­ture. Many Notre Dame undergradu­
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

'Fair wages' not fair to all 
Having suffered the recent platitudes and pontifieations of the living-wage cheerlead­ers, I feel compelled to play the hard-nosed conservative Scrooge that I am, and point out that a Notre Dame "living wage" will only hurt all parties involved. (Full disclosure: I am a student employee and am paid the min­imum wage.) 
Firstly, if we ratchet up workers' pay high­er than the market says they're worth, the University, as a rationally self-interested organization, will simply find ways to replace many of them with machinery that can get the job done more cheaply. It won't be as efficient as paying workers their market value, but it would still be more efficient than keeping a lot of overpaid workers. (All students working for the University for under $11 an hour, take note.) "A man's due" is more accurately determined by market forces than by any one individual or minori­ty. 
Secondly, these pay raises will mean less money for future university investment in new research, facilities, faculty, dorms and so on. The University's main purpose is to serve its students with the best learning environment possible, not to be a welfare ageney. If many faculty and students feel otherwise, they can start a eampus drive to subsidize workers' wages. If we rich Notre Damn students would shrug at paying X more dollars a year for the 1-'mployees, why don't the "progressives" set an example and ante up? (Maybe we Scrooges will be inspired into action after our moral betters blaze the trail to Notre Dame's version of the Great Society.) Anyway, a voluntary charity drive would be a lot more progressive than pricing most beginning NI> employees out of a job. 
Ono f'inal noto: Since we love Catholic doc­trine, isn't Catholicism about choosing to do the right thing, not boing forced or forcing others to do the right thing? Let grinches like University President Father John Jenkins and the rost of us make our own dwiees-surely we'll pay dearly for it in Purgatory if wn are mistaken, but I rather nxpnet tlw opposite. I'm just thankful that, at lnast in this lonely respoct, the sehool admin­istration is placing eurrnnt and future stu­dents f'irst, not a self-defeating agenda that only hurts most those it intends to help. 
Alex Forshaw sophomore Sr. Edward's Hall Feh. 22 
ates have developed well a value sys­tem that is solidly based on Catholic values and principles, and on the teachings of the Church. It is not easy to "swim upstream" against our secu­larizing culture, with shallow and passing relationships. It is not easy for us to hold ourselves to a higher stan­dard when it comes to Christian sexu­al ethics. But many of you do because it is the way shown to us by Jesus. 
Other students begin to discover that part of themselves that only God can satisfy and fill as their days under the Dome lengthen. And they are grateful for the opportunities they find here to practice their faith. 
Yet conversion begins when we are aware of our relationship to God, of God's presence in our lives, of our need for God and an honest self­assessment of what keeps us from eliminating from our lives those obsta­cles which hinder our spiritual growth. 
May the grace of these days be a time when we practice virtue through prayer and almsgiving. Let's take advantage of the season to shorn up our deepest Christian convictions. Let it also mark a period in our lives when we try to be as aware as possible of who we are in God's sight and ques­tion the values that hold us baek while affirming and strengthening the r.on­vietions which lead us in the direction in which we want to go. 
Ash Wednesday and Good Friday are days of fast and abstinence. This means that we should abstain from all meat, eat the equivalent of two meals rather than three and refrain from eating between meals. 
Fridays in Lent are days of absti­nence when we should refrain from eating meat. 
Father Richard Warner. CSC. is the Director of Campus Ministry. 1/e can be reached at Warner.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

Hourly rate not the only issue 

It seems that the Campus Labor Action Project (CLAP), and America as a whole, puts too much emphasis on one issue, hourly rate. CLAP needs to step back and look at other issues involved in labor, including stability and benefits. 
In my opinion, knowing that your current job will still be there tomorrow, next year and the next decade is more important than what one makes. For instance, I worked as a eomputer programmer for a company in Ohio for two years. About the same time I was offered a promotion at the company which included tuition reimbursement, I received a graduate assistantship at Miami University. If I had stayed and accepted the new position, I could have made three times more than Miami's offer and still attended graduate school for free, but I left simply because the company was unsta­ble. This became very evident about six months after my departure when the company dissolved and all of my former coworkers became unemployed. 
Moreover, working for the same employer for years can lead to larger pensions, increased retirements and better benefits that would not have been possible if the worker was looking simply for a higher-paying job. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

These are things that are called "hidden income" because you miss them by simply looking at the hourly wage. The benefit package, in particular family tuition coverage, that Notre Dame provides is enviable. For instance, my parents saw their three children attend the same private university in Ohio, and, without a doubt, would have stayed the required time at any wage for the opportunity to have our tuition waived or even significantly reduced. 
By looking just at the hourly rate, you are missing the big picture. Even though stability and benefits do not show up on the "bottom line," they should definite­ly be considered and discussed when you make your claims about Notre Dame being unjust. 
Something concrete to consider is, would you call a $15/hour job at an unstable company with no insur­ance or benefit package just? Moreover, would you accept that position over a $9/hour job at Notre Dame? 
jon Hauenstein graduate srudenr Feb. 22 

L_____________________________________________________________________________________________________ -­

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Thursday, February 23, 2006 

PLAY REVIEW 

'SubUrbia' seeks out lost generation 
By ANALISE LIPARI 

Scene Critic 
Opening to discordant notes of Green Day and the Offspring, senior Cameron Rains' and the Student Players' produc­tion of Eric Bogosian's "SubUrbia" was an hour and forty minutes of racism, politics, social commentary, love and realism that held more true than the vast majority of "teen drama" tripe seen on television today. 
The result of over four months of hard work, "SubUrbia" reflects the effort in solid performances nearly cast-wide, smooth production and lighting. 
"SubUrbia is a riff on disgruntled youth," actor Steve Hoeplinger said. 
The play firmly sticks to this theme of trying to understand what it sees as the world's next "Lost Generation." It does this with a deftly handled sense of humor, packing a punch with both subtlety and flamboyance. 
The play opens on its only setting, a Seven-Eleven (or as close as Rains could come to the popular chain without step­ping on a copyright infringement) on a street corner in the characters' hometown of Burnfield. Jeff (Mike Anderson) the ide­alist, Buff (Kyle Bocinsky) the "postmod­ern idiot savant" and Tim (Hoeplinger) the Air Force veteran discuss Oreos, AIDS, world hunger and cheese in a span of less than ten minutes. 
Bogosian's original words handle the conversational ins and outs with both an almost sweet earnestness and a language­laced sense of melodrama. His characters speak in ways that are both subtly true and outrageously over the top, and this seeming dichotomy creates a realistic Gen-X world, framed by his subtle the­matic intent. 
"I think it has some great messages and really people will laugh, cry and really think," actress Jordy Brooks said. "Parts of it are so funny that the messages sneak up on you when you don't expect it." 
"In its purest form, SubUrbia is a loud, fast, aggressive, rock and roll view of a lost generation of suburban youths in Middle America," Rains said. 
The usual corner crowd is then joined by Sooze (Jennifer Betancourt). Jeffs girl­friend and an avid performance artist, and Bee Bee (Brooks), a recovering drug addict. All are chastised for their loitering by the store owner, a Pakistani immigrant named Norman (Waleed Khawaja) and his frustrated wife Pakeeza (Karuna Anantharaman). 
It's in their altercations with the store owners that some of the play's deepest themes come to light. Tim, in particular, speaks in the voice of a bitter racist, criti­cizing the immigrants with the reckless Buff at his side. Hoeplinger and Khawaja provide solid and intriguing counterparts to each other during these episodes. 
Sooze breaks their usual trend by want­ing to leave Burnfield and head to New York, following her dream of becoming a performance artist. Betancourt's perform­ance of Sooze's piece, a series of mono­logues under a harsh spotlight, is again an example of Bogosian's emotional power coupled with self-conscious verbosity. It firmly sets up Sooze as one with the drive to escape the pull of the corner, and posi­tions her opposite her sluggish peers, especially a reluctant Jeff. 
"Fear of the unknown and of having to either make the right decisions or face the 
consequences is something that every­one at ND and SMC can relate to," Betancourt said. "I think that subUrbia plays to these fears effectively." 
Spurned by the arrival of an old friend, Pony (Kevin McCarthy), a former high school geek turned recently successful rock star, the gang starts examining their own purposes and futures. The play sets up a clash between Pony's success and the somewhat aimless lives of his former friends. 
"Some have dreams, but they don't pur­sue them," Elise Yahner, who plays Pony's publicist, said. "They just waste their lives and can't escape the comfort zone of their hometown." 
Yahner and McCarthy both serve as more vehicles of change than characters, but the actors handle this well in their good performances. 
On a technical note, the lighting in particular is fantastic, playing in time with both script and music and accent­ing both the environment and the char­acters' exchanges with an understated but powerful touch. 
Ultimately, the message of the work is one of desperation for something more 

CD REVIEW 
Action Action shines as it defies, avoids cliches 
By MICHELE JEFFERS 
Scene Critic 

These days it is common for bands on the same record label to keep the work within the family. Failed and frustrated band members often hook up with oth­ers to form a new group, hoping a new name and a fresh line-up will open Pandora's box of rock. 
But these cases of inbreeding often fail to produce anything more than the same old tune. So when the singer from The Reunion Show and the bassist and guitarist from Count the Stars (both on Victory Records) joined with the drummer of Diffuser, another pop­punk band would be the safely assumed result. 
Action Action, however, is greater than the sum of its parts. 

album would be a Stephen King novel supported by synthesizers. The songs con­tinually refer to dreams, delu­sions and altered-con­sciousness. The album's tone is overtly gloomy, but the layered
Recommended tracks: '120 Ways To Kill You: An instrumentals save it from
Illustrated Children's Book,' and 'Sleep Paralysis' 
being depress-

In 2004, Mark Kluepfel, Clarke Foley, Adam Manning and Dan Leo formed Action Action and signed with Victory Records. Action Action distinguished itself from the slew of pop-punk bands and sold 50,000 copies of its debut album -"Don't Cut Your Fabric to this Year's Fashion" -in the process. With the release of its sophomore album, "An Army of Shapes Between Wars," Action Action has created a more com­plex sound. The result is a moody blend of dance-punk and new wave. 
Action Action lead vocalist and song­writer Mark Kluepfel has a distinct and penetrating, yet somehow still soothing voice. He has a knack for twisting his stream of consciousness style of singing through vivid metaphors and recurrent images. His songwriting also seems to personify his own mitochon­dria as revolting against him. 
The best com­
parison to the 

than the everyday, and Anderson's sweetly idealistic performance captures this perfectly. 
"I just want to do something that shat­ters the world. If I can't do that, I don't want to do anything." Jeff, that main character, said. 
"In this we find characters who in dealing with their futures engage them­selves with the struggle that is their exis­tence," Rains said. 
The final scene of the play is jarringly ambiguous and leaves the viewer both shocked and affected, to the credit of Rains and his talented cast: Each char­acter's fate is unknown, which accom­plishes its original, and well-performed, purpose. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 

ing. Songs like "What Temperature Does Air Freeze At" are more whimsi­cal. "Sleep Paralysis" humorously segues into an Atari-esque bit in which the music sounds like a penguin swal­lowing a fax machine. This song is also featured on an arcade game on the band's Web site, which allows those who play to unlock hidden tracks on the album which each level won. 
The best song on the album is "120 Ways To Kill You: An Illustrated Children's Book," a bit of self-irony considering an earlier song asserted that "long and clever titles don't bring a clever song." The song begins with the drums drizzling behind Kluepfel's distorted voice. The song gradually intensifies as layers of surging vocals and keyboards are added. Other stand­out tracks include "Smoke and Mirrors," "Paper Cliche" and "The Game." 
With its style falling somewhere between The Killers and The Flaming Lips, the members of Action Action have surpassed their earlier work. Action Action has managed to create a catchy album that reaches a more sub­stantial depth of meaning while main­taining its pop sensibilities. 
Contact Michele Jeffers at mjeffers@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 





CENE
Thursday, February 23, 2006 
page 13 
CD REVIEWS 

Belle and Sebastian blends styles with success 
The group has released seven studio 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN 

albums in its 10-year history, along A.sistant Scene Editor 
with a variety of live albums and com­pilations. 
Few bands have die-hard fans like "The Life Pursuit," like most of Belle B1dle and Sebastian -surprising eon­and Sebastian's previous efforts. is an sidt~ring the quaint, quint nature of their upbeat. catchy and utterly addictive music. Somnthing <tbout their dnlicate, blend of l'olky ballads, witty rhymes and fandl'ul musk inspires fans, and "The a little bit of '60s pop thrown in. Life Pursuit," while somewhat diiTerent Songs like "For the Price of a Cup of from tlwir previous n~leases, will do no Tea" sound like vintage Belle and less. Sebastian, but many of the other songs 
BPIIe and Sebastian were formed in on the album branch out into slightly 1;1asgow, Scotland in 11)96. The band is new musical territory without losing primarily the brainchild of load much of the sound that has made them sin gn r/gu ita r is t/kny board is t Stuart a long-term success. Murdoch. Its other members inelude Belle and Sebastian often incorporate vocalist/guitarist Stevie Jackson, key­a diverse range of sounds into their boardist Chris Geddes, drummer music, and "The Life Pursuit" is no dif­Hichard Colburn. vocalist/violinist Sarah ferent. What makes this album different Martin. trumpeter/bassist Mick Cook is the addition of some elements that and guitarist/bassist Bobby Kildea. sound a little more '70s glam rock than 
The band's narnn is taken from a what previous efforts have exhibited. French book, "Belle et Sebastien," about Examples of this occur in "White Collar a boy (Sebastinn) and his dog (Belle). Boy," which has a backbeat similar to Norman Greenbaum's hit

\' "T tt • •""' "Spirit in the
The Life Pursuit Sky" and "The
·~.~ ~ . 
Blues are Still Blue," which
Belle and Sebastian 

y'!t ~ 

poses distinct elements of the 1970s glam-band
Matador Records 
:1,~'\ 

T. Hex. 
The Life Pursuit , Many of the
by BELLE & SEBASTIAN ,. 
other songs on the album sound reminiscent of other genres, but
Recommended tracks: 'White Collar Boy,' 'The Blues 
Belle and 
are Still Blue' and 'For the Price of a Cup ofTea' 
Sebastian man­ages to put its 

Photo courtesy of roughtraderecords.com 

Belle and Sebastian features seven members and recently released Its album "The Life Pursuit." The band blends sounds of '60s pop, glam-rock, and folk. 
own unique spin on the pieces. "Funny Blues are Still Blue," the soulful "Funny Little Frog" blends a surprising Motown Little Frog" and the vintage Bf11lc and soul element into its feel, while the sur­Sebastian appeal of "For the Price of a prisingly funky "Sukie in the Graveyard" Cup of Tea." The songs as a whole are incorporates organ, tambourine and a strong, and skipping past any is depen­wailing guitar solo. The bass-line in dant on mood more than quality. "Song for Sunshine" transforms into a While "The Life Pursuit" has a slightly soaring chorus, and Act of the Apostle, different sound than the band's previous Pt. 2" has a bit of country twang at its efforts, it still otTers the kind of ehippcr, heart. heartfelt music fans have eome to 
The slower, languid "Dress Up In You" expect. The band manages to update is different from the generally up-tempo their sound without betraying it. "The feel of the whole album, but its gently Life Pursuit" offers great songs with a moving rhythm manages to make it decidedly upbeat flavor, whieh makes it seem right at home. a satisfying record overall. 
The album's best offerings are the jazzy "White Collar Boy," the funky "The Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
Biggie's posthumous effort a money-making mess 
By ROQUE STREW Scene Critic 
Ev11n at the danging height of rap's sto­ried East Coast-West Coast friction, every­thing I'Pit imaginary. Thnn it upgraded from imaginary to real, with the killing of Notorious B.I.G. 
Like the dnath of Marlowe, its whodunit aura would stamp Biggio's ghost into pos­tnrity. Like thn death of Nietzsche, his dnath would elnar thn way for greedy, grisly misappropriation at the hands or surviving kin. What rnmains-in Biggio's easn -is a foggy legacy, obscured by extravagant nostalgia and exploitive rned­£1ling. And sadly. Dunlo;: The Final Chapter, his semnd posthumous rnlnase, !'ails to lift the mists. 
Lacking Tupac's copious unrnlnasnd out-· put, the cx11cutive producnrs-absurdly cr11ditml as I>iddy, Biggio's mother, Voletta Wallace and, from beyond the grave, Biggio himself:-havn had to rely heavily on old material. That means old chcstnul-; from Heady to Die, Life After Death and Born Again must resurface alongside material no one's heard before. 
Perhaps the album's worst offender, "Wake Up Now" is an enormous misfire, with Korn 's empty caterwauling sharing space with the lyrics from "If I Die Before I Wake." Its eerie quality somehow unin­tentionally makes the song's macabre subjeet both tackier and more poignant. A better track, thanks to the original song's quality, "Ben!"' is a throwback to one of the stronger street narratives of Life After Death, linding a seamless vocal synergy in the Mobb Dcep-Big!.,ric duo. 
Along the same lines, and to horrible nll'eet, the song "I I old Your Head" places Biggio's old song "Suicidal Thoughts" next to an exhumed Bob Marley chorus from "Johnny Was." 
Boasting mix-tape DJ Clinton Sparks' production, the song anchored the album's promotional campaign, molding two poignant songs into a single kitschy, morbid danse-macabrB double whammy. 
Thankfully, a few niys of sunlight some­
how puncture 


through the murk. Produced by
Duets: The Final 

Danja, "Whatchu Want" reunites

Chapter 

The Commission -New York's
The Notorious B.I.G. 

microphone royal­ty, Jay-Z andBad Boy Biggie -in a famous partner­ship unheard of since 1996 in "Brooklyn's 
is produced by Swizz Beatz, the burned­out supcrproducer, and proves even he can't engineer a solid blend of lWista and Krayzie Bone's swift styles with Biggio's steadier delivery. The Huff Ryders-style production just doesn't work. 
Elsewhere, the album is peppered with other arbitrary guest choices. Missy, for example, makes an unusually forgettable cameo in "Ultimate Hush." While nobly orehestratcd, the North-South combo falls apart in "Breakin' Old Habits," where T.l. and Slim Thug awkwardly jostle with Biggie 's stronger rhymes. Assuming a lot­tery wasn't used, it's rarely clear why cer­tain rappers were selected for "Duets." 
sign of Mr. Wallace. lie's also conspicuous­ly absent on ''I'm Wit' Whatever," which pairs Li'l Wayne with Dipsot icons Juelz Santana and Jim Jones. Morn at home on uptown mix-tapes, the Diplomats' sound is a poor fit with Biggio's late-century Brooklyn esthetic. 
This record's shameless, morose Weekend at Bernie's ethic -propping up a dead man to keep the party going ­amounlo; to an ineoherent esthetie. A geo­graphic mess, "Duets" plays like a set of posse tracks assembled at random. 
The lack of taste, evident throughout the whole project (the produetion, the selec­tion of guesl-;, lyrical dedsions), is not sur­
Finest." Even more mystif)ringly, on two tracks, prising. But "Duel<;" is about cashing in at
Recommended tracks: 'Whatchu Want,' 'Beef' 'The 
Then the murky the non-duets aren't even non-duets with all costs, music bo damned. 
tracks return. Biggie. "The Most Shady" baffiingly cor­
"Spit Your Game" rals Eminem, Obie Trice and Diddy -no Contact Roque Strew at rstrew@nd.edu 
Most Shady' and 'I'm Wit' Whatever' 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, February 23, 2006 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 



Duke downs Georgia Tech, clinches ACC title 
Redick overcomes 2-for-17 opening to score 22 en route to victory, remains nine points away from league record 
Associated Press La Salle. ATLANTA -As he watched "The guys had to respond 
J.J. Redick struggle to find his because they were going into a jump shot, Duke coach Mike situation where they hadn't Krzyzewski could still see been before," George everything falling into place. Washington coach Karl Hobbs 
"I don't think he's ever been said. "We never told them if 2-of-17, but we just believe that Pops was coming back or not the next shot is your first shot," coming back." Krzyzewski said. "To me, that's Maureece Rice and Carl mental toughness." Elliott each had 12 points for 
Shelden Williams had 26 the Colonials (23-1, 13-0 points and 11 rebounds and Atlantic 10), while Mensah­Redick overcame a horrid start Bonsu and Danilo Pinnock both to score 22 points as the top­added 10. ranked Blue Devils beat "I think the fact that Pops Georgia Tech 73-66. wasn't out there was really our 
The victory gave Duke its rallying point because Pops is 11th Atlantic Coast Conference such a valuable part of this regular-season title under team mentally, physically and Krzyzewski, but the focus was emotionally," Pinnock said. on Redick, who entered the Omar Williams added seven game with a chance to become points and seven rebounds for the league's career scoring George Washington. leader. "I challenged Omar, Mike 
Redick missed 15 of his first (Hall) and Regis at halftime and 17 shots, but he did hit the go­told them: 'You haven't scored ahead jumper with 8:51 yet. You guys have got to step remaining. up.' And we responded the way 
After Jeremis Smith's fast­we should at home," Hobbs break jam gave Georgia Tech a said. "I was very proud of the 51-47 lead nearly 3 minutes way we finished the game." earlier, Redick missed a 2-foot Hobbs said he had "no inten­runner, a jumper inside the free tions" of putting Mensah-Bonsu throw line and a fastbreak back in the game. Mensah­layup that Josh McRoberts put Bonsu's injury was being evalu­back to tie it at 53-all with 9:34 ated late Wednesday night. Georgetown lost its last five first half. Another turnover, another to play. The Colonials' ranking is their games of the regular season to Hibbert asserted himself with layup, another loss for Florida. 
"I never really lost my confi­best since Feb. 15, 1955, when derail any chance of making a number of layups and short Dane Bradshaw's layup with dence," Redick said. "I did feel they were No. 5, the highest in the NCAA tournament. jump-hooks in the first half, 15 seconds to play gave No. 10 a little pressure. When I missed school history. The importance of and converted a three-point­Tennessee the lead and the that layup, I said that it can't Wednesday's win for play with 4:09 left that put the Volunteers went on to a victory get any worse." Georgetown 66, Rutgers 50 Georgetown wasn't lost on Hoyas ahead 56-42. over the 12th-ranked Gators. 
Redick needs nine points to Georgetown coach John Rutgers coach Gary Waters, "A lot times Roy gets fouled, Bradshaw had a similar clos­break the ACC mark of 2,587 Thompson III stood at the podi­who said he could sense the you hear the frustration out of ing-minute layup in Tennessee set by Wake Forest's Dickie um and spoke like a man who urgency in the Hoyas at both their mouths, saying 'Man this last month when the Volunteers Hemric 51 years ago. The Blue was relieved to have last week ends of the court. guy is big,"' said Georgetown handed Florida its first loss of Devils' next game is Saturday and, perhaps, the doubts of last "This was do or die for them," guard Dare! Owens, who fin­the season after a 17-0 start. in Philadelphia against Temple. season behind him. he said. "They want to get ished with 11 points. "As Roy's "Who else would make the 
His 23rd-ranked Hoyas had somewhere and do some things teammate, it's kind of funny to play to win the game?" Vols George Washington 77, come up with the victory they so they came out with some sit back and laugh because they coach Bruce Pearl said. "It was LaSalle 65 needed to get back on track for fire, and when you come out get to see what we go through obviously a gamble, but it was 
George Washington was going a berth in the NCAA tourna­with some fire things happen." every day in practice." one that paid off." to have extend the nation's ment by beating Rutgers. The player that Rutgers (15-Much like in the first meeting, longest winning streak without In the span of seven days, the 12, 5-9) couldn't stop was 7-Tennessee 76, Florida 72 the Gators (22-5, 8-5 center Pops Mensah-Bonsu. Hoyas (18-7, 9-5 Big East) foot-2 center Roy Hibbert, who Tennessee's Major Wingate Southeastern Conference) had a Regis Koundjia stepped right in dropped three straight to then­scored a career-high 25 points stood in front of Corey Brewer, shot to win it, but Brewer's and the sixth-ranked Colonials No. 9 West Virginia, Marquette on 10-for-13 shooting. his 6-foot-1 0 frame and long turnover helped Tennessee (20­didn't miss a beat. and then-No. 4 Villanova. "Roy played well, and as he arms making an inbounds pass 4, 11-2) pull out another one. 
With Mensah-Bonsu, the "We needed that," Thompson continues to play well, it's going very difficult. Maybe even Brewer's inbounds pass with team's second-leading scorer said. "Last week was a long to make life so much easier on impossible. 18 seconds remaining was and rebounder, limited to 13 week. We really needed that everyone else," Thompson said. Brewer was supposed to intended for Al Horford. 
.· 
first-half minutes because of a win. I'm very happy that we Hibbert's play didn't make life make two reads and then call a Instead, Bradshaw stole it, twisted left knee, Koundjia won." any better for Rutgers. He and timeout. Instead, he attempted spun around Taurean Green scored 13 points to lead five It was the type of win the Jeff Green helped Georgetown a tough pass around Wingate near the free throw line and George Washington players in Hoyas didn't get at this point take a 34-20 halftime lead by that turned out to be the differ­scored the game-winning bas­double figures in a victory over last season. After starting 15-7, combining for 20 points in the ence in the game. ket. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Hotel Manager. Will greet and regis­ter guests, answer inquiries about policies and services, resolve occu­pants complaints, assign duties to workers, schedule shifts, coordinate front-office activities, set room rates, establish budgets and allo­cate funds, confer/cooperate with other managers, collect payments, record data, monitor staff perform­ance and train staff, verily accuracy of figures, calculations and postings pertaining to business transactions recorded by other employees, and examine accounts, payroll, commis­sion requests, interest and account payments, cash receipts, banking records, inventory and stock record sheets. Require Bachelors or foreign equiv­alent in Hotel-Restaurant Mngmt., Management, Finance or Mathematics. Submit resume to South Bend Nights, 236 Dixie Hwy., South BeQd. IN 46632. 

Kaplan: summer office help needed $7.00/hour 272-4135 
FoR SALE 
A 4 bdrm, 2bth newly remodeled house near campus. $90,000. Call 220-8666. 
2002 Dodge Neon 4D. 53,700 mi. Good cond. $6,500. Call Carlos 574-271-2275 or cmendoz1 @nd.edu 

FoR RENT 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED­ROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 
Stop overpaying for rent. Visit BlueGoldrentals.com 
123 ND Ave. 3-bdrm, 1.5 bath. Call 574-229-0149. 
3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web site:mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary 574-993-2208 or grooms@ourweb­spot.net 
COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINI­UMS AVAILABLE FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BEDROOM,TWd BATHS. HURRY. 235-7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. 
A 4 bdrm, 2bth house near campus. All appliances included. Pets wel­come. $1350. Call220-8666. 
2-3-4 BEDROOMS. Immediate & 2006-07. Security,phone included. 315-3215. ndstudentrentals.com 
For Graduation and Sports Events. 2BR Guest House. Fully furnished. 25 minutes from Campus, overlook­ing Diamond Lake. Owner lives next door. 
Low rates for longer rentals. 269­445-8468 or geok21751 @yahoo.com 
Rent furnished house-walk ND. 3 students $300, 4-$275 + utilities. ADT. 574-309-3105. 
515 St.Joe: 7 bdrm,area of student rentals, $1200/mo. 574-250-7653 
1-7 bdrm. homes starting@ $200/student, 24-hr.maint.,free pool tables, 1st mo.free. Call574-250­7653 or visit bluegoldrentals.com 


PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
A Humble Tribute to Ogden Nash. When stress derails me and work I'm bogged in If my own wit fails me I just turn to Ogden. 
More than a catbird hates a cat, Or a criminal hates a clue, Or the Axis hates the United States, That's how much I love you. I love you more than a duck can swim, And more than a grapefruit squirts, I love you more than a gin rummy is a bore, And more than a toothache hurts. 
As a shipwrecked sailor hates the sea, Or a juggler hates a shove, As a hostess detests unexpected guests, That's how much you I love. I love you more than a wasp can sting, And more than the subway jerks, I love you as much as a beggar needs a crutch, And more than a hangnail irks. 
I swear to you by the stars above, And below, if such there be, As the High Court loathes perjuri­ous oathes, That's how you're loved by me. 
The Octopus 
Tell me, 0 Octopus, I begs Is those things arms, or is they legs? I marvel at thee, Octopus; If I were thou, I'd call me Us. 
The Rhinoceros 

The rhino is a homely beast, For human eyes he's not a feast. Farwell, farewell, you old rhinocer­os, I'll stare at something less pre­poceros. 
The Camel 
The camel has a single hump; The dromedary , two; Or else the other way around. I'm never sure. Are you? 
The Catsup Bottle 
First a little Then a lottie 







OUND THE NATION 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page IS 

NBA Standings Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
tmun  reeord  pet.  GB  
New Jersey  29·23  .558  
Philadelphia  26·27  .491  3.5  
Boston  21-32  .396  8.5  
Toronto  20·34  .370  10  
New York  15·38  .283  14.5  

Eastern Conference, Central Division 
ttmm rncord pet. GB 
Detroit 43·9 .827 

Cleveland 32·22 .593 12 
Indiana 27-23 .540 15 
Milwaukee 27·26 .509 16.5 
Chicago 23·29 .442 20 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
tmuu roeord pet. GB 
Miami 34·20 .630 

Washington 27·25 .519 6 
Orlando 19·33 .365 14 
Atlanta 16·36 .308 17 
Charlotte 14·41 .255 20.5 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
wam record pet. GB 
Denver 29·26 .527 

Utah 25·28 .472 3 
Minnesota 23·30 .434 5 
Seattle 21·34 .382 8 
Portland 18·34 .346 9.5 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
ttmm reeord pet. GB 
Phoenix 35·17 .673 

LA Clippers 30·22 .577 5 
LA Lakers 27·26 .509 8.5 
Sacramento 25·29 .463 11 
Golden State 24·29 .453 11.5 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
tnam rtH~ord pet. GB 
Dallas 42-11 .792 

San Antonio 41-12 .774 1 
Memphis 30·23 .566 12 
New Orleans 29·24 .522 13 
Houston 22·31 .255 20 
Men's NCAA Basketball Big East Conference 
tmun conf. ovnrall streak 
Villanova 11-1 21-2 Won 10 
Connecticut 11·2 24-2 Won2 
Pittsburgh 9·4 20-4 Lost1 
West Virginia 9·4 18-8 Lost 3 
Georgetown 9·5 18-7 Won 1 
Marquette 8·5 18·8 Won 2 
Syracuse 7·6 19·8 Won2 
Cincinnati 7-6 18·9 Won 2 
Selon Hall 7·6 16·9 Lost 2 
Louisville 5·8 17-9 Won 2 
Providence 5·8 12·12 Lost1 
Rutgers 5·9 15·12 Lost1 
St. John's 5·9 12-13 Won 1 
NOTRE DAME 4·9 13-11 Lost1 
DePaul 3·10 10·14 Lost1 
USF 0·13 6-20 Lost15 
around the dial 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL South Carolina at Georgia, 6 p.m., ESPN Villanova at Cincinnati, 8 p.m., ESPN Wisconsin at Northwestern, 8 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA Indiana at Detroit, 7 p.m., TNT Sacramento at LA Lakers, 9:30 p.m., TNT 
PGA TouR Chrysler Classic, 5 p.m., USA 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Associated Press 

the Naval Criminal steps to prevent contact out. Investigative Service, between Owens and the A Pentagon task !'oren
ANNAPOLIS, Md. ­Gibbons said. woman. found that hostile atti­
Navy quarterback Lamar The academy did not An Artiele 32 hearing, tudes and inappropriateOwens has been charged 
release the name of the similar to a civilian grand treatment of women alsowith raping a female mid­woman. Gibbons said the jury inquiry, will be held persisted at the U.S.
shipman in her dormitory academy was offering her to determine if there is Military Academy at West
room, the academy 
support and counseling. sufficient evidence to go Point and at the Navalannounced Wednesday. 
Owens, a 22-year-old ahead with the ease, Academy.
"These charges are 
accusations, and senior from Savannah, Gibbons said. Owens guided Navy's Midshipman Owens is pre­Ga., would not be avail­The military academies football team to an 8-4 sumed innocent until able to comment, Gibbons have been under scrutiny season record that includ­proven otherwise," acade­said. since 2003, when women ed victories ovnr Air Foree my spokesman Cmdr. Hod "I le remains assigned to at the Air Foree Aeademy and Army and a vietory in Gibbons said. the Naval Academy and in Colorado began coming thn Poinsettia Bowl over 
Since the alleged attack will continue to attend forward with accusations Colorado State. last month occurred on elass, performing other that they had been sexual­Scott Strasnmeicr, head academy grounds, Owens duties normally assigned ly assaulted by fellow of tho Navy's sports infor­was charged under the to midshipmen pending cadets over the previous mation ol'fice, said Owens' Uniform Code of Military results of the investiga­decade and wore ignored athletic eligibility is com· Justice, and the investiga­tion," Gibbons said. lie or ostraeized by com· pletn. lie dedinnd to com­tion is being handled by said the academy took manders when they spoke mont on the allegations. 
IN BRIEF 

Canada, U.S. eliminated Czech Hepublic faces Sweden in tho gridlock at the top or in tho middle of from medal contention other semifinal. conferences. And because there has TOHINO, Italy -Woe, Canada. The matchups mark the first all­been some imbalanced conference Goodbye, U.S. European semifinals since the NIIL scheduling, it moans somo teams 
Sweden, Finland, Hussia and the began sending its players to the might not have played the samo Czech Hepublic secured berths in the Ol~mpics in 1998. schedules." men's Olympic hoekey semifinals on NLAA to reevaluate tourna­Minor-h~c.tRUe umpires to be Wednesday, while Switzerland, ment selection process used in WBC Slovakia and two North Amnrican INDIANAPOLIS -When the NCM NEW YOHK -While many of the heavyweights -Canada and the tournament selection committee best playors aro getting ready for United States-wern sent packing. chooses the 65-team field each March, the first World Baseball Classic, it 
It was a stunning loss for Canada, committee members usually rely on appt~ars tlw top umpirns won't be thn defending Olyrnpie champion and schedule strength to make the tough calling tho tournament.favoritn to repeat. 
decisions. Talks bnt.wnnn Major l.nagun
After two seornless periods, 
This year could be dill'erent. Baseball and its umpires' union
Alexander Oveehkin convertnd a 
Committee ehairman Craig brokn down Wednnsday. The com· pownr play at 1:30 of the final peri­Littlepage said Wednesday that with missioner's ol'l'i1:e also has bnnnod, and Alexei Kovalnv added anoth­so few clear-cut choices, imbalanced negotiating with the Association ofnr power-play goal with 23 seconds eonf'erenee sehedulcs and gridlock in Minor l.nague Umpin~s. and minorrnmaining to lift Hussia to a 2-0 vie­the league standings, the eommitten's lnagun umps arn likt>ly to of'lkiatntory ovnr the Canadians. 
task this season is morn daunting. the 16-nation tournamPnt, whkh"Everybody in my eountry is jump­"We know we are going to face sonw runs from Mard1 3-20.
ing and drinking lots of vodka," 
unusual challenges this year and "As of today's datn, at this point itOvechkin said. 
Tlw win sets up a semifinal show­speeifically because of conference dons not appear that major leagun down Friday with Finland, which realignmnnts," Littlepage said during umpires will bn working tlw World improvnd its rneord to 6-0 with a 4-3 an hour-long conference call with Cup," World Umpirns Association victory over thn Americans. The reporters. "It seems we have somn prnsident John llirschbeck said. 


page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, February 23, 2006 


PGA 

Tiger dominates first round match 
Woods defeats Ames after 10 holes ofplay 
Associated Press 
CARLSBAD, Calif. -Arms crossed, staring into the soul of his opponent, Tiger Woods looked as though he was wrapped up in one of those nerve-racking moments that define the Match Play Championship. 
Far, far from it. 
Ruthless to the end until his name was in the record books Wednesday, Woods won the first nine holes -seven of them with birdies -and closed out Stephen Ames as early as mathematically possi­ble, 9 and 8. 
"It's been a while since I played one like that," Woods said with a smile. 
He didn't have to look far for motivation. 
Ames was on the practice range Monday afternoon when he was asked if he would take a carefree attitude into his match against the No. 1 player in the world because not many expected him to win. Ames shook his head. 
"Anything can happen," Ames said, breaking into a big smile. "Especially where he's hitting the ball." 
Woods apparently took his comments seriously. As he climbed into a van behind the 1Oth green after halving the hole with pars, he was asked he had seen what Ames said. 
"Yes." 
Did it motivate him? 
"Yes." 
Asked if he cared to elabo­rate, Woods smiled. 
"No." 
His golf spoke volumes, from an approach into 5 feet for a birdie that was conceded, to an 18-foot birdie on the sec­ond hole that hung on the lip for a few seconds before falling. 
Ames never had a chance. "Tiger played exceptionally well," Ames said. Then he 

ECDC 2006-07 Registration 
The Early Childhood Development Center at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame (ECDC) is currently registering for the 2006 Summer program and the 2006-07 School Year. 
Registration Due Dates: 

2/15/06 2006-07 Kindergarten Registration 3/1/06 2006 Summer Program 4/3/06 2006-07 School Year For more information please call ECDC-SMC: 284-4693 
or ECDC-ND: 631-3344. 


looked over to confer with Woods on how many birdies he made on the front nine and he added with heavy sarcasm, "It was a rough nine for Tiger." 
"If he continues playing the way he's playing, he should walk away with this -easily," Ames said. 
Not everything is easy in the Accenture • Match Play Championship. 
Ernie Els returned to La Costa Resort for the first time in three years and left with a familiar result, losing on the 18th hole to 48-year-old Bernhard Langer. The Big Easy has never made it out of the second round at La Costa. 
The other top seeds, Vijay Singh and Retief Goosen, had no problem, and Phil Mickelson (No. 5) had to go 18 holes before getting rid of Charles Howell III. 
But it was particularly tough for Scott Verplank, who matched the tournament record by going 26 holes before he finally got past Lee Westwood of England. 
Verplank spent six hours on the course, and was told that Woods was out there for only two hours. 
"I worked three times as hard as him," he said. "I was thinking that ifl won today, I'd probably practice a little bit. But I think I already did. So I'm done." 
He wasn't alone. 
Seven matches went extra holes, breaking by one the record set in the first round two years ago. 
Colin Montgomerie was 4 up through eight holes on Niclas Fasth before he started losing holes, not to mention momen­tum, and the Scot found him­self trailing with three holes to play. He caught Fasth on the 16th hole with a par, then put him away with a par on the 23rd hole. 
"It doesn't matter what hole, it's nice to win," he said. "Match play is a lottery, a crazy game." 
NBA 


Francis traded to Knickerbockers 
Guard joins Marbury in crowded backcourt 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Steve Francis was traded Wednesday from the Orlando Magic to the last­place New York Knicks, who hope that pairing him in the backcourt with Stephan Marbury will help turn around the team's dismal season. 
The Knicks sent Penny Hardaway and Trevor Ariza to Orlando. Though Marbury and Francis essentially play the same position, the Knicks are confident it will work out. 
"We just want ballplayers," New York coach Larry Brown said. "I don't get caught up in positions. I think Steve is strong enough to guard 2s and quick enough to guard 1s." 
Francis was averaging 16.2 points to lead the Magic, but the star guard has feuded with coach Brian Hill this season. 
By dealing him for Hardaway's expiring contract, the Magic will get salary cap relief after this season and will be in even better position when Grant Hill's deal expires next year. 
"We'll miss Steve in a lot of ways," Orlando assistant gen­eral manager Otis Smith said. "We'll miss the passion he brought for the game, we'll miss the energy he brought for the game, but I think we'll be better off in the future." 
New York was 15-37 enter­ing Wednesday night's game against Miami and had the second-worst record in the NBA. Orlando was 19-33, third in the Southeast Division. Both teams have been active before Thursday's 3 p.m. EST trade 


4.0 Student Living 
At Notre Dame (888) 278-5962 
' 

New look. Better lffestyle. Still Closest To Campus. 
• 
Walk to Campus 

• 
Covered Parking 

• 
Laundry Facilities On Site 


tHigh Speed Internet Available 
NOW LEASING FOR 2006! 
Mention This Ad And The Application Fee Is FREE! 
'Pncesare subject tn change 

1710 E. Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, Indiana 46637 Turtlecreek-IN@aimco.com 


deadline. 

Though the Knicks have been rumored to be involved in other trades, president Isiah Thomas said the team could be done dealing unless the right offer comes along. 
"I would say that right now we're pretty satisfied with where we are," he said. "I don't think we will be actively out shopping and trying to make a deal or anything like that." 
The Magic were in New Jersey to play the Nets, and Francis made the short trip across the river to Madison Square Garden to appear at a press conference before the Knicks played the Heat. He was listed as inactive and did not appear in the game. 
"We both can complement each other," Francis said, 
referring to Marbury. "Everybody has to pretty much feed off each other." 
Agent Jeff Fried said Francis will take whatever role the Knicks choose. 
"Steve's excited as can be," Fried told The Associated Press. "He's just excited to get there and perform." 
Though the trade increases what is already is the league's highest payroll next season, the Knicks needed to make a move to have any chance to salvage what has been a dis­mal first season under Brown. New York had won only two of its last 18 games. 
"It brings another ball han­dler and scorer and another great personality to our team," Knicks rookie Channing Frye said. "That's very important for us." 

Thursday, February 23, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
WINTER OLYMPICS -TURIN 
Ohno advances to short-track S00-111eter quarterfinals 
AsstKiiltcd Press 
TliHIN, Italy -Apolo Anton Ohno had a short night at tho short track. It was good Pnough to givP him a shot at anotlwr ml'dal. 
Ohno safnly advancPd from his lwat in tlw 500 motnrs WPdnPsday and will go to tlw final night of rompntition with 
two  chancos  to  add  to  tho  
br·onzn lw has alroady  won  at  
tlwsn WintPr Olympics.  

Jo:von though lw was !wavily favorod to rnovn on, Ohno did­n't tako anything for grantnd in tlw shortost of short track cw1nrts. IIis roliof was apparent wlron lw !TossNI the line. his right fist in tho air and a big smilo just abovo his soul patch. 
Forty-throe S!\eonds after the gun wont off, he was dono for 

tlw night. This was his only raco. 
"It's my last week of the gam n s and it's b(~en a Ion g timo since I enjoyed a 500 motors like that," ho said. 
Tho 2:{-year-old star, who has the only Anwrican short track modal of these games, movod on to the quarterl1nals of' tho 500 Saturday night. lin's also part of the 5,000 relay t(~am, whieh alroady qualified for tho final. 
Ohno was third off the start­ing line, but hn dipped insidn coming ol'f' a turn to get past two skaters with less than two laps to go. He crossed the line comfortably ahead of Italy's Hobnrto Serra. 
While cloarly the most aecomplishod of the four skaters in his heat, Ohno was 


Ple~•,-;e join us tor an eveningof 
Zen Meditation 
d5 P.· wt oF d sem;s exploring the belief$ .md pt".>di,.::es of the wt)rld's gr·eat faith tt-aditions. 
Cwdcd btj Dr. Thomas Petersen :md n~. Gene Gorski, CSC 
Thursda_~j, F-ebruar:J 2,, 2006 
))0 Coleman-Morse 
7-7:+5pm 
Spon::~or~d b_LJ: 
l...ampu~ Mino,..trlj. r··cx·; C.r"duilte Ke5odences, Graduate Student Union, 
lnt:eo·n.1toon<ll Student Seo·voc.e,; & Ac.tivol.oe_<;, Univer!<lh) Village, and Nt> Muslom Student A'!\sociation 
C-M 

wary of Serra, who had the home crowd rooting him on, and Japan's Takafumi Nishitani, the 500 gold medal­ist at Nagano eight years ago. 
"Every country has a good 500-metor skater, so every­body has a good start," Ohno said. "It's all about explosive­ness." 
Unlike the lc)]iger events, which often start out slow while the skaters set up thoir strategy and conserve energy, the 500 is basically an all-out sprint where the slightest slip can knock a skater out. 
Four years ago in Salt Lake City, Ohno was taken out by a crash on the final turn of the 1,000, but still managed to crawl across the line for silver. Then, after finishing second again in the 1,500, he was bumped up to gold when a South Korean skater was dis­qualified for an illegal block. 
In Ohno's first event of these Olympics, he bumped another skater from behind, nearly fell and wound up being eliminat­ed in the semifinals of the 1,500. 
He settled for bronze in the 1,000 after South Korea's Lee llo-suk made a brilliant pass for second place coming off the next-to-last turn. 
Another U.S. skater, Anthony Lobello, crashed out of his 500 heat. The first-time Olympian from Tallahassee, Fla., was in seeond place when he got low eoming through the turn, only to lose his edge and slam into the boards. 

"I was on line and the ice broke out," Lobello said, meaning it craeked in a soft spot. "There's not anything I can do about it when the ice breaks out." 
T'he 175-pound Lobello believes his weight worked against him. 
"You can find a soft patch," he said. ''I'm probably one of the heaviest skaters out there." 
Ahn Ilyun-soo of South Korea stayed on course for a short track sweep with a domi­nating victory in his 500 hoat. 
lin already has won tho l'irst two men's gold modals, and he'll go for two morn Saturday. 
Tho women's :LOOO relay was the only nwdal ovent on Wednesday. South Korna picked up its fourth short track gold of the Turin Carnes, whiln Canada elaimod tho silver. Italy roeeivod tlw bronzo wlwn China was disqualified for impoding in a turn. 
The Americans won tho con­solation f'inal to f'inish fourth overall. 
In tlw wornon's 1,000, both 
U.S. skaters safnly advaneod from tlwir heats. 
Et:ROMANS
-·~ 

award-winning Catholic journalist and Middle East expert wh lived in Jerusalem's Muslim Quarter in the 1980s, Mr. Meyer will discuss his travels to war-torn Sudan from 1998-2001. 
Thursday, February 23, 2006
page 18 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



ilt{OiRII~$1 
Local Tradition Since 1975 
Call for Campus Delivery: 273-3890 or 
.:: 

· a $1 poq.t ..Call: 288-3320
4

-2610 Prarie Ave·~ South Ben<;I,.JN 46614 




Ir-------------•
m I
Proprietors I WJrren&LindJ I
Ylocco's 
1 Restaurant I 
I ?irs/ Or~(;ina!:Azza in '7oa~n I I I Since 1951 I I $2 off Any Size Pizza I I Eat in Only I I Expires March 31, 2006 I 
I 537 North St. Louis • South Bend, IN I I.. 574-233-24(,4 ..
_____________ I 


MARIO'S MEXICAN PIZZERIA is now delivering to campus 7 days aweek. 
CALL 272-MARIOS now to order New York Style pizzas and Boracho burritos for carry-out or delivery. 



LARGE PIZZA 




$ 
99
Cheese & 1 Topping 
Add'l Toppings
FREE DELIVERY ON CAMPUS! 
$1.25 Each 
Lin1ited time offer. Price'S, tax,
52750 IN 933 ~~f~.af::~~~~h;:~:: :ff~r:.at?o~~ 
~t participating lo<ations only. 
(N. of Cleveland Rd. ­Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's) 
Pizza • 


-~!~~~~"::t~~~~ 



Specializing in Group Orders 
Party? Section Meeting? Feed your crew with Sbarro. 
99¢ 2-Uter Coke product with any 18" pizza delivery 


For menus aoo information, call us at 63t2924 *Free delivery 6pm to lam 

Thursday, February 23, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Canadian Cripplnr" put him in a tions that dislodged llammack's 
By DAN MURPHY 

solid position. Jordan took headgnar. Spons Writer 
advantage of his rnach and k1~pt The assault was enough to 
his opponent at a distance for win one of the closest lights of 
A strong third round from the n~st of thn fight. Borowiecki the night. Billy "Tiw Kid" Md\nnry was used his speed to keep the not enough to overcome Phil match even, but in the end it Brad Amiri v. Nazur "Naz" "Papa Bull" Alborwtti's early was not enough to overcome Ahmed dominance, as lw wont on to the long right jabs of Jordan. Graduatn student Brad Amiri win tlw split decision. kept Nazur Ahmed at bay with 
Albonntti trapped his oppo­Adam "Steel Goat" Burns v. his jabs long enough to earn a nnnt in tlw corner for thn Frank Ragukonis split decision -and a berth majority of tho first round, In arguably the most physical into the quarterfinals next sr:oring points with quick jabs of thn preliminary round bouts, wonk. as Md\rwry struggled to work both fighters came out fired up The relentless Ahme was able his way out of thn trap. for an exciting first round. to successfully work his way Alhorwtti all but clindwd the Adam Burns and Frank into the mid-section of his win in tlw second round with Hagukonis landed several opponent a few times, especial­overpownring punl·,hes. punches, but Burns l'elt the ly in the later rounds. In the 
punchns more. The referee had end, Amiri mixed large hooks Patrick "Mountain Ryan" to stop the fight twice in the and landed jabs as "Naz" Ryan v. Andrew "Rage" first round. attempted to work his way into Massari The second round did not go the taller boxer. 
Alumni frnshman Andrew much bettor for Burns. Massari took control ol' his fol­Hagukonis Inc! with a strong Dillon Murphy v. Stephen "The low r:lassmatn Patrick ltyan folll·-punch combo that bloodied Wrecker" Klein 
from tlw bnginning. A strong Burns' nosn and ended tho Morissey's Stephen Kinin mix of hody-and !wad-shots fight. It was officially called a landed a series of big right knpt Hyan guessing throughout split dneision victory for the hooks in the second round to tlw first round and allowed hometown sophomore win the lirst 170-pound light. Massari to stay on tlw offensive Hagu konis. In the first round, both boxers throughoul. traded blows while trading 
"Mountain Hyan" c:amn out Josh "Critical Pressure" momentum. But in tho next swinging in thn third round and Hammack v. Mike "Drunker round "The Wrecker" lived up landnd a f1~w solid punehns. But Sailor" Hazlebeck to his niekname by sending the early assault from Massari In a bout that featurnd two Murphy back to his corner with had worn him down. and vnry different fighting styles, a standing eight count. Murphy, "Hagn" secured th1~ unanimous Mike "Drunknn Sailor" a graduate student from South deeisiorL llazlnbeck landed enough Bend, finished the round, but 
punchns to secure a split deci­the referee stopped the fight Alex "Fiesta" Borowiecki v. sion. before the third round began, Christopher "The Canadian Hammack kept calm in the awarding Klein the victory. Crippler" Jordan center of the ring for most of 
Alnx Borowiecki fell to the fight as llazlebeck circlnd Michael "Liberator" O'Connell Christopher Jordan in a split him with furious, sporadic vs. Hugh "The Christian Rite" decision lwtween the 165-attacks. "Critical Pressure" was Monahan p o un d~~ r s d n spite drawing able to fight ol'f' many of these llugh Monahan's strong blood in tho first round. attnmpts, but in thn second and blocking technique was not 
Two big right hooks to start third rounds llazlebeek con­enough to hold oiT the barrage ofT tlw second round for "Tho nncted on multiple combina-of punches from Michael 


Seasoned veterans dotninate second night of prelitninaries 
Albonetti's strong start prevents late McEnery comeback; Ragukonis combo sits Burns; O'Brien defeats Belatti 
O'Connell, who defeated the Fisher freshman in a split deci­sion. 
The match was elosn throughout all three rounds with Monahan consistently countering his opponent's attacks. In the nnd, O'Connell's experienee allowed him to land enough punches to make it through the lirst round, 
O'Neil Peart vs. Tim Flannery 
Keough's O'Neil Peart won a unanimous decision over fresh­man Tim Flannery. 
Flannery movnd well early to keep himself out of' trouble but was never n~ally abln to make any sustained aggressive moves. llis constant motion worked against him latPr in tho match, as Peart was visibly fresher going into tho third round. 
P!~art left no doubt in the linal round, landing a series of com­binations that earned him tho win. 
Ryan Simmons vs. Brian Kantor 
In a battle between two Keough freshmen, Brian Kantor came away with tho judges' unanimous decision. 
The light started slow as tho rookie fighters felt each other out by trading short jabs from a safe distance. Both boxers turned up tho intensity for tho remainder of match, but Kantor led the way. !lis combinations were too quick for Simmons, who found himself on the losing end of the final 170-pound bout. 
Andy "Doogie" Houser vs. Tim "Rainbow Right" Rippinger 

Andy "Doogin" llousnr camP 
out strong in tho early rounds 
and was able to hang on for thn 
split decision victory. 
Hippingnr did his bnst to 
move in and out for just long 
enough to land a few punclws 
on llousnr. "Doogie" was abln 
to avoid many of the attacks, 
nspoeially a huge right hook 
that he barnly ducknd undnr in 
tho second round. Hippingnr 
fought hard late but was unable 
to put togetlwr nnough of a 
light to rneovnr from llousnr's 
strong start. 
Sturges Lochridge vs. Michael "Double Meat" Tallarico 
With :~o soeonds remaining in 
tho linal round, Lochridgn land­
ed a barrage of pundws that 
forced the rnfnron to stop thn 
f'ight and award him with tho 
vie tory. 
Thn win was not a knockout 
boeausP Tallarico was ablP to 
get up but not in good mwugh 
shapP to finish the fight. 
Lochridge looknd strong 
through all thrnn rounds as lw 
worn down thn shortnr "DouhiP 
Moat." 
Tho f'ight was stopped twirl' in the sncond round for a standing eight count and to clean up a bloody nosP but was ofTicially nndnd with thn pun­ishing third-round blow from tho Knott llall senior. 
Pat "Ultimate Assassin" 
Nagorski vs. Brian Byllca 
In the quicknst right of tlw night, Brian Byliea nstablislwd himself as a serious thrnat to win his 1 SO-pound division. 
Tho sonior from l>arinn, Ill. took only 30 sneonds and onP quick flurry of punchPs to takn earn of Nagorski. Bylka's l'ists wnrn flying as soon as tlw lwll rang, Nagorski nnvnr had a chanen to dnfnnd himself. Tlw rdnrnn quiekly stoppPd thP fight as thn Alumni senior look11d woozy. Af"tPr consulting lhP ringsidn doetor, the rnfnrPI' eal111d thP light. 
Ben O'Brien vs. Greg Belattl 
Sophomorn Bnn 0' Brinn advaneod to tho quartPrl'inals with a victory ov1~r SPnior (;rpg Bnlatti. 
Bnlatti camn out strong in thn lirst round with a loud crowd at his back, But it was quickly rwi­rknt that O'Brinn was in bettor shape, and hn began to wear down Bnlatti. 
In thn third round, O'Bril'n landed a monstl~r uppnreut that snnt Bnlatti to tlw ground and caused tlw rPfnnw to call thn light. The big blow eamo with onn minutn remaining in thn final round. 
Leo "The Quiet Man" 
Rubinkowskl vs. Eric "Just So Hungry" Retter 
In tho final fight of tho night, two Stanford Crif"lins battlnd for a ehance to makn it to the nnxt round. Hotter, a junior. eamn away with tho unanimous deci­sion. 
Despite llubinkowski's largn height advantage, Bettor jumped out to an early load with an imprPssivn first round. Momentum earri o d in to tlw second, as ho landed an immo­diate forceful right. "Tho Quint Man" hold his own, but ulti­matnly Hnttor was too much for the freshman. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 


4:00 p.m. -5:30 p.m. 

at the Centerfor Social Concerns The placeGod calls you lois the place where your deep gladness and the world's deep hunger meet. 

-Frederick Buechner 





Presenters 
Centerfor Civil and Hmnanllighls, Nolre Dametaw Sthonl 
MelissaScbmidlND '03 
Loyola UniversityCblragoSchoolofLaw Cllfreot StndentiJJClllldLawProoraiD 

Stephanie Villinsld,SMC rgg DePaul Universily Cnllege ofLaw,JD '03 Legal Assistance FntmdationofMetropnUtan Cruta~o 
r---------------------------------------------------­
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 23, 2006 

Baseball 
continued from page 24 
Mainieri said earlier this month. "Hopefully [my] 12th season will bring us more fond moments." 
The game is the first of four at USA Stadium for the Irish, who finished 2005 with a 38-24-1 record -the first time the team did not win 40 or more games in a decade. Indiana State finished 30-20 in 2005 and did not make an NCAA regional. The Irish also will play games on Friday against Air Force, Saturday against Memphis and Sunday against Oklahoma in the Service Acadamies Classic. 
Mainieri will hand the ball to senior southpaw Tom Thornton this afternoon to shut down the Sycamores, who have a lineup that includes star junior catcher Nevin Ashley. Ashley batted .328 with one home run and 41 RBI last season. Outfielder Tim Brewster will protect Ashley in the lineup. Brewster hit .317 with two homers and 22 RBI in 2005. 
The precise Thornton enters· the game with a career ERA of 
3.7 4 with 146 strikeouts to just 57 walks in more than 250 innings pitched. He will be the first pitcher in a rotation that includes right-handed juniors Jefl' Samardzija (8-1, 3.89 in 2005) and Jeff Manship (2-1, 3.97) and sophomore lefty. 
"Our veteran pitching rotation ... will be a key to our success," Mainieri said at the team's Opening Night fan event on Monday, Feb. 6. 
Sophomore 6-foot-5 right-han­der Ryan Tatusko will deal to a balanced and veteran Notre Dame lineup that includes eleanup first baseman and two­time Big East batting champion Craig Cooper and catcher Sean Gaston, who hit .293 with 28 RBI and 27 runs scored in 2005. All nine probable starters for the Irish saw started for at least a substantial portion of last season. 
The Observer was unable to contact Mainieri for this article. 
Notes: 
Indiana State leads the Irish 7­5 in the all-time series. The two teams last met on March 27, 1996, a 5-4 victory for Notre Dame. The Irish are 7-1 in their last eight season openers. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

Hockey 
continued from page 24 

"It's had its share of ups and downs," Mike Walsh said of his career at Notre Dame. "There's probably no place I'd rather be, though. Just the experience of playing for Notre Dame and the people that I've played with, I'll never forget it." 
Trick said the Irish need to focus on their two-game set with the Nanooks amidst the feeling of nostalgia in the minds of Notre Dame's seniors. The series will be crucial for home ice advantage in the Central Collegiate Hockey Association (CCI-lA) playoffs. 
"It will probably be an emo­tional weekend, but I hope not because we need to pick up some points and get a playoff series at home," Trick said. "Then we can extend our 'last games' a couple weeks." 
The seniors have seen con­siderable change in their time under the Golden Dome. After their junior year, former coach Dave Poulin left the job to take a position in the athletic department and was replaced by current coach Jeff Jackson. 
The class of 2006 sees itself as creating a foundation for a program that can compete nationally. University officials are reportedly considering much-needed upgrades to the Joyce Center with input from players and coaches. 
"We're laying some footsteps for people to come in and make this a place where hock­ey is a big thing," Amado said. 
Tim Wallace 

Wallace has played in all of Notre Dame's 149 games since he arrived in 2002. He is Notre Dame's all-time leader in con­secutive games played. 
Wallace has 24 career goals at Notre Dame. He has scored 1 0 this season, the highest sea­
son total in his four-year career. 
The Alaska native spent two years in the U.S. National Team developmental program, winning the U-18 World Championships in 2000 before coming to South Bend. 
Mike Walsh 

The New York Rangers draft­ed Walsh in 2002, making him the only senior signed to an NHL team. 
He has 25 career goals and is tied with Wallace for the sec­ond highest goal total this sea­son with 10. 
The Detroit native's career at Notre Dame got off to a slow start. He broke his jaw in an exhibition game before his freshmen season and missed six weeks with mononucleosis later in the year. His first career goal was a game win­ner against Lake Superior State three weeks after return­ing the lineup. 
Chris Trick 

Trick is the lone graduating defenseman for Notre Dame. He has been effective in killing opponents' scoring chances his entire career, but has earned other accomplishments off the ice. 
The Novi, Mich. native was nominated for this year's Ilitch CCI-lA Humanitarian Award, given annually for exceptional performance on and off the ice. 
"It's been a bumpy road at times but it's been fun," Trick said. "A few of us were talking the other day, we still remem­ber the first time we played here. It doesn't seem like that long ago." 
Matt Amado 

Amado, the senior class's lone Canadian, has been prolif­ic scorer for the Irish his entire career. The Langley, British Columbia native has scored 23 goals in his career, including a 




THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
presents 

"Rebecca's Revival: Creating Black Christianity in the Atlantic World" (Harvard, 2005) 
By Jon F. Sensbach, University of Florida 
Saturday, February 25,2006 9:00a.m. 
The Morris Inn 
career-high eight this season. 

The center was a multi-sport athlete coming out of high school when he was named MVP of both the basketball and volleyball teams. 
"It's gone pretty quickly," Amado said of his career. "Four years, you don't expect it to go by that quickly. I'm proud of what we've done." 
Rory Walsh 

Walsh has been a reserve goaltender for most of his Notre Dame career, but he says he has no regrets about his role. 
"I had some unbelievable goaltenders in front of me my four years here," he said. "I appreciate the ability to be out here on a Division I level." 
Walsh has made six career appearances, including two starts during his sophomore year, when he went 1-1. 
Tony Gill 

Gill, a 5-foot-1 0, 184-pound center has seen limited action during his Irish career, but he has managed to net two career goals and make some lasting memories. 
"It's been a lot eJf fun here," Gill said. "We've got a great group of guys. I think my favorite memory is either my first assist against Michigan State my freshmen year or killing a penalty at the end of a game against Ohio State." 
The Irish will be in action Friday and Saturday against Alaska-Fairbanks at the Joyce Center. The seniors will be honored on the ice after Saturday's contest. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


HOLY 
CROSS 
COLLEGE 
You can advance the Catholic Mission of Holy Cross! 
HALL DIRECTORS NEEDED 2006-2007 HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
GRAD STUDENTS LAW STUDENTS 
Undergraduates are also encouraged to inquire about RA vacancies 
CONTACT 
RESLIFE~HCC-ND.EDU 

FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Met1"s  
First 200fatts receive tie-dyedIrish Lacrosse t-shirts  Lacrosse vs. Pet1t1 State ~~m· mm v  
~~  

Free Adt~tissiot1 


Thursday, February 23, 2006 


Tennis 
continued from page 24 
at Mmnorial llospital. Shn bngan following thn wonwn's tnnnis tnam after llarold Swanagan, eoordinator of student wnlfarn and dovnlopmnnt at Notre l>amo, paired Leidy with the squad in a program called Fighting Irish Fight for Lifo. 
Tlw womon's team spends limn with the child, taking hor to movies, bowling allins and will­coming her fi1r homo matr.hos. 
"I >oing somothing outside the t1mnis court n~ally hnlps to unify the loam," senior eaptain Laurnn Connnlly said. "It is inspiring to sne someone so inspired to watd1 us play. This makos us want to play wnll for hor." 
ller mothnr said Emma's am~dion li.Jr tlw tmun has grown with iL'i wnsistont gnnnrosity. 
"Thny gave her a gill card to Build-A-Bear Workshop for Christmas," Lnann Loidy said. "But it had to have a tnnnis out­fit. rackot and balls bocause her tnnnis girls gave it to lwr. She gons around saying she wants to be a tennis player whnn she grows up. Shn adorns them." 
l·:mma Leidy was diagnosnd with ll~ukomia in Junn 2004 wlwn slw was just 3 ynars old. What first appnarml as just flu symptoms worsened into the biggest shock thn ram ily had 1wnr nxpnrinncnd. 
. "N1!bod.~ in our far.nily h~ts ~<~d 
tl bnforn. Le<um Lntdy s<ud. So it camn as a huge surprise becausn wn thought slw had thn flu and it wouldn't go away." 
Soon aftPr f.:mma's diagnosis, tlw family's for.us turrwd to dwmotlwrapy, bonn marrow tn~atnwnts and long hospital stays. l·:mma's older brothers K1~nton. II, and Bnwdnn. X, worn fi1rcnd to mako the biggest adjustnwnl'i. 
"It was hard at first because I Knnton and Bnwdm1l were lefl out and 1wnrything was about l·:mma," Lnann Lnann said. "Wn were constantly at the hospital and having chnmo." 


Onee Emma's brothnrs under­stood their sister's situation, they and the rest of their classes raised pennies to donate to the pediatrie clinic. But the opportu­nity to spnnd time with the Notre Dame women's tennis team has liftnd Emma's spiril<> most. 
"Thorn has boon a lot of sup­port for Emma," Lnann Leidy said. "But as far as rnally being thnrn for her, nothing [compares to what[ the girls have been doing in all the outings. They have rnally focusnd on Emma." 
In addition to seeing the lilm 'lloodwinknd' and getting per­sonal tennis lessons, Emma also has gone shopping with the team at the Notre Dame Bookstorn. 
1\mma has grown to love the University through these activi­ties. 
"Emma wanted to go to the bookstorn, so a fi1w ltnam mflm­bersl met with us to shop with hnr and she found cool Notre Damn stull'," Lnann Leidy said. "Shn wantnd one of everything." 
And the loam also has taken a more serious role in limma's life. Last fall, Laurnn Connfllly went with the Lnidy fiunily to Emma's spinal tap. 
"I wanted to see what a kid 
The Observer + SPORTS 
her age had to go through," Connelly said. "But it was great to see her attitude about it because she had a smile the whole time. It was rflally neat to see how she ean take a situation likn this and make it into some­thing good." 
This team dedieation has !.,riven Leann Leidy a deeper apprecia­tion for their contribution to her daughter's life. 
"Whenew~r she sees them all, she goes up and hugs them," she said. "It is really awesome to see these girls have an interest in her. They have given Emma a chance to grow up. 
"But it is also good for the Itnnnis team I because here is this little girl going through this horrible stuff, and she has r.an­cer, and she is a survivor." 
Irish senior Kelly Nelson draws inspiration from the 5­year-old child and friend. 
"She is so brave about her trnatments. She keeps such a positive outlook," Nelson said. "I think that is very refreshing for us to be around her. She eounl<> on us, and that gives us morn of a purpose behind our competi­tion." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 
wvu 
continued from page 24 
IIall. 
"I love them. I think they look eute," Allen said in a CSTV radio interview. "They're green -they're pretty. The guys came out in their black, so we eome out in our 
green." "/ love I the green wn madn shots," 
Notre Dame un{forms/. I think Me<; raw said. (15-10, 6-S Big "Wn w1~rn moving
they look cute." 
East) got ofT to a [tlw ball I well." slow start and Thn Irish was out rebound­Charel Allen improvnd its ed 24-11 in the Irish guard peri motor 
page 21 
The shot start11d a 12-4 run over four and a half minutes that gavn the Irish a 57-4H cushion. 
Notre Damn shot 1 H-of-29 ((12 pereent) from the fiold in the sncond half, ineluding 5-of-9 (56 porcnnt) from 3-point range. 
"Wo Wflrll aggressive ofTon­sivnly [in thn sne­ond half'l. and I think that's why 

first half. The Irish made just nine field goals in that stretch and only 4-of-7 from the foul line. But Notre Dame kept the game close, trailing West Virginia (12-13, 4­1 0) 28-24 at half. 
"I didn't think we were play­ing hard," McGraw said. "In dnfonse following its 79-h4 loss to Connecticut. 
Notre Damn held Wnst Virginia to 3-of-13 from 3-point range three days after Connecticut shot 1 0-of-19. 
Notro Damn is currently on 
the NCAA tournament bubblll. Associatn hnad eoaeh Coquose 

the first half, I "Every game when Washington said was really disap­thn irnportanen of
we step on the
pointed in the the garnll, com­
whole team. court, it's for Ia bined with tho 
Notre Dame spot in/ Big East new grnen jnr­improved its snys, motivatod
Tournament play
offense in the sec­the Irish against
and NCAA
ond half. West Virginia. Courtney LaVere Tournament play." "It's almost like made a transition we'rn in the Big layup 23 sneonds East Tournament
Muffett McGraw
into the half, and right now,
Irish coach 
Duffy hit a 3-Washington said 
pointer 40 sec­onds later to give the Irish the lead. 
West Virginia forward Olayinka Sanni respondnd with an old fashioned 3-point play on the ensuing possnssion to regain the Mountaineers' lead. 
The two teams traded the load over the next five minutns until Allen hit a 3-pointnr with 
13:18 left to put the Irish up 43-42 -onn which they would not relinquish. 
"The second half, I thought it was a major turnaround," MeGraw said. "We got the right pnople shooting the right shots." 
A Megan Dul'f'y 3-pointer expanded Notre Dame's lead to 4H-44 with 10:54 rnmaining. 
in a CSTV radio 
intorview aftllr the garnn. "Evnry game wlwn we stnp on the court. it's for Ia spot inl Big East Tournanwnt play and NCAA Tournanwnl play." 
Allnn, who was avnraging H.4 points and 4.5 rnbounds bnforP thn Wnst Virginia gamll, agrnnd with Washington's assnssment. 
"We nnednd a win so bad," shn said. "Ev1•ry gamn now is important to us .... I'm playing every gamn likn it's the play­oiTs, likn it's going to bn our last gamn." 
Notre Damn plays at Cincinnati Saturday at 2 p.m. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu 

The Kaneb Center presents the Scholars in the Classroom Series featuring: 
"The Impact of Hurricane Katrina and Predicting Storm Surges in Southern Louisiana" 
Joannes Westerink, Associate Professor ­Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences, University of Notre Dame 
In addition to being an expert in his field, Professor Westerink received the 2004 Outstanding Teacher of the Year Award in the College of Engineering. 
Thursday, February 23rd, 4:00pm 
126 DeBartolo Classroom Building 
Registration: 
http:/ /kaneb. nd. edu/events!register. shtml 
Information: 631-9146 or kaneb@nd.edu 
February 23 
So What Do You Plan To Do With a Philosophy Degree? 
Meet the Career Center Team and find the answers to those pesky questions from parents and roommates. 
Hammes Student Lounge, Coleman Morse. 
Contact information: 
Office of Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 
UNIVERSITY ' OF NOTRE DAME 
C:CII.I.I·.GF. OP ARTS ANU U'TTI\ItS 

..-----------------------------­page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 23, 2006 

fight was in danger of ending in Jeffrey Hausfeld, Hausfeld Senior Daniel Liem was able bit more equally, as Tiawphaibul the first, but the bell saved pulled out the win in a unani­to work the body and get inside connected with some of his big


Fights 

Carroll. mous decision. on fellow senior Sean Pearl to punches, but was pummeled in In the second, Dyer came out The two traded punches for win a unanimous decision. the third. The fight was won in
continued from page 24 

just as strong, continuing his much of the fight but Hausfeld Liem used his speed to avoid the third round. as Wieland Hicks came out hungry in the onslaught of punches to the seemed to find the edge. The Pearl's longer reach and work worked Tiawphaibul's body second, landing multiple combi­head and body of Carroll. Only sophomore effectively worked his body. Although the first two enough to earn the win. nations against Ford. Hicks thirty seconds into the second the head, although he was never fights were fought with a very could not contain himself, as he round, the referee stopped the able to land many good combi­defensive mindset, Liem came Hunter Land v. Alex Duffy speared Ford to the mat, lead­fight. nations. out very strong in the third to The twelfth fight of the ing to a warning. But Hausfeld was able to get cement his win. evening featured a hard-fought 
Both fighters showed signs of Andrew Litschi v. Keita in a few quick jabs consistently Liem put any doubts to rest by bout between sophomore fatigue by the third round. Hicks Miyamura in all three rounds, keeping raining blows on Pearl's torso Hunter Land and freshman Alex fought back with his combina­The third fight was a blowout himself one step ahead of Young throughout the third round. Duffy. Duffy won the close tions. But his third round per­for senior Andrew Litschi over throughout the fight -leading Liem's consistency in the first match in a split decision. formance was not enough to junior Keita Miyamura by unan­to the win. two rounds and his outright Land had good protection overcome Ford's dominance in imous decision. domination in the third led to from his size, as he was able to the first two rounds. Litschi was quicker, stronger Parfait Mwez v. Mark Hinkins his victory by unanimous deci­keep his distance from the 
and taller than Miyamura, The ninth mateh of the night sion. smaller Duffy in the first round. Anthony Schweiss v. Greg allowing him to move in quickly, was a very evenly fought contest Dufl'y prevented Land from capi­Vallejos deliver his attack and then move between junior Parfait Mwez Sean Wieland v. Navapol talizing on his height advantage 
The second fight of the night out. Miyamura was not able to and freshmen Mark Hinken. Tiawphaibul with a strong defense and quick featured a strong match adequately respond to the Hinken and Mwez fought The small and feisty sopho­counterattacks. between junior Anthony attack. This enabled Litschi to equally well in the first two more Sean Wieland was able to Duffy showed a great combi­Schweiss and freshman Greg work the head and body for rounds, with Hinken having a beat the much larger Thai fight­nation of speed and strength by Vallejos, which Schweiss won in most of the first round. slight edge in the two rounds. er senior Navapol moving inside Land's reach to a split decision. In the second, Miyamura came Hinken was able to land quick Tiawphaibul -in a split deci­deliver strong punches. He did a 
Vallejos came out strong in the out strong with wild punches to jabs against the junior, giving sion. good job leaving quickly enough first round, forcing him against try and put Litschi on the defen­himself a very slim lead against Tiawphaibul came out ready to avoid a counterattack. the ropes. Schweiss had to fight sive. This plan backfired for Mwez going into the final round. to fight, swinging big but also Land was able to knock down defensively for much of this Miyamura, leaving him too tired Mwez battled back in the leaving himself vulnerable. his opponent in the third when round and had trouble connect­to defend himself and unable to third, butting Hinken on the Wieland was able to successfully Duffy lost his balance. But the ing any of his punches. stop Litschi's counterattacks. defensive and turning the tide.of counterattack throughout the knock down was not enough to 
Schweiss and Vallejos traded Miyamura was given a standing the fight. But this comeback did round. Wieland avoided change the result, as Duffy punches in the second round. eight count in the second and not change the result, leading to Tiawphaibul's attempts and pieked up two of the cards. Vallejos was cut early on. was pummeled even more in the Hinken's win in a split decision. delivered quick combinations to 
Schweiss won in the third third. Litschi's dominance led to hurt the bigger fighter. Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at round, coming out strong and a unanimous decision. Sean Pearl v. Daniel Liem The second round came out a jfitzpaS@nd.edu delivering constant blows on Vallejos. Vallejos could not stop David Wierson v. Kyle Cyr the attack and could only defend The sixth fight of the night but not retaliate. was between the more con­
tained sophomore Kyle Cyr and Bryan Marek v. Daniel Florin the aggressive junior David 
Junior Bryan Marek came out Wierson, who won in a unani­strong against freshman Daniel mous decision. Florin. relentlessly attacking Wierson was strong early in him on the way to a split deci­the fight but only connected a sion victory. few times. But what Wierson 
Marek's attacks were vicious lacked in proficiency he made as he knocked Florin down in up with in strength. Wierson the first round. Marek forced landed haymakers and right Florin to stay on the move to hooks, while Cyr focused on his avoid his constant aggression. jabs. 
Marek continued to work the This trend continued through­body in the second round, keep­out the fight, as Cyr was the ing Florin on defense while still more consistent fighter and throwing his untamed fists. landed a higher percentage of 
The third round was an punches. entirely different story, with Cyr's strategy of attrition did Florin linally taking the of'fen­not work against Wierson's sive against Marek. The turn­overpowering blows, leading to around was due mostly to the junior's unanimous win. Florin's ability to finally avoid Marek and deliver his own Matt Pentz v. Michael Gibbons eounterattack. Senior Michael Gibbons began 
But Florin was too defensive his fight against freshman Matt in the first two rounds and could Pentz with a relentless attack not overcome this deficit in the that would lead to his victory in third, losing the split decision. unanimous decision. 
Gibbons was quick, relentless Jack Carroll v. Nathan Dyer and vicious in his attack and 
In the· only knock out in the kept Pentz on the run for much first set of matches, the referee of the fight. Gibbons unyielding stopped the light in the second assault led to him literally chas­round to save freshman Jack ing Pentz around the ring. Carroll from the beating he Unfortunately for Pentz, received from junior Nathan Gibbons had the edge on speed Dyer. and caught him more often then 
Carroll had the advantage in not and continued working the height and reach over Dyer, but head and body. he could not overcome Dyer's Pentz, who never stood a strength and speed. Dyer was chance against Gibbons' attacks, dominant throughout the entire lost the fight on all three cards. fight, raining blows on Carroll, which led to a knock down early Mike Young v. Jeffrey Hausfeld in the first and a standing-eight In a close match between sen­eount shortly thereafter. The ior Mike Young and sophomore 





SENIOR NIGHT 




-~--------1 
Thursday, February 23. 2006 

The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

ERIK POWERS and ALEC WHITE
JOCKULAR 


ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 34 Hall-of-Farner 67 No-win Neighbor of 
Musial situations? 
Bulg. 35 Hoedown seats 68 Not just tehee 4 Time on the job 38 Fellah 69 Classic brand 8 Big name in 40 Going out with with an oval logo 
morning TV 70 UFO pilots '"=-+--+~~
41 Belgian river 12 Joe Pesci title 
42 Going nowhere role 

fast DOWN 13 Silly 44 Chart-topper 1 Barker of TV/ 14 It's heard 
45 Biblical opening movie fame coming and 
51 Snack, say 2 Painting the going town red52 Title for una16 _ all-time high 
dama: Abbr. 3 Avian talker 17 Scary 
53 Ancient royal 4 Does bad 19 Masked fighters 
54 Grandpa 5 Send a 21 Little annoyance Simpson message in 22 Squeeze (out) 55 Despot of old Morse code, e.g. 23 J.F.K. info 6 Diamond unit
56 Othello villain 24 Word with show 7 Many a Britney
58 Novarro of or know Spears fan 
"Ben-Hur" 27 Important time 8 Keep up
60 Onomatopoeic 28 "Too-ra-loo-ra­Sinatra album 9 Subj. in which loo-title 2x + 3 = 9 is 29 1952 Gene 64 Call at a deli 
solved Kelly film 10 Stomach
65 Senators' attire 

32 In the past 66 "What Is to Be 11 "Not a chance, 37 Releasing one's 46 Practice, 50 Lavatory label 33 _ position Done?'' writer bud!" anger practice, 
57 Poetic tributes 
12 Ones blowing in practice
39 Cruise ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE the wind accommodations 47 Try to knock 59 It's put in a pot 
15 Almost eternal down 
61 Tiny battery 40 How sweet it is! 
18 Reid of 48 "Anything your 62 Roadside"American Pie" 43 It may little heart 
accompany a desires!" stops20 Has one's coli. application
moment in the 49 Desk sights ... 63 N.F.L. Hall-of­sun 
45 Many a news or an apt title Farner source for this puzzle Marchetti
25 Giant of note 26 "Pow!" For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a
30 Read between ll!!lll!"t..::-t-:-:t-=ii•I!!!IP!I!~+=+=-81-::-1 the lines credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
31 "The Graduate" crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
~~tl~-~~~tt~~ -~~~-:-~ girl 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,00034 Take effect 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 35 From memory 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 36 Turkey's place solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City _______ State _____ Zip_______ 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion


JJ1~~IDL1IE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
TURSY ± 
RAVAL ~ 
rxx 
THEIRZ 

WHE:N THE: WATC.H THIE:F WAS C.AUGHT RE:O-HANOE:O,
rxJ 

-
www.jumble.com 
IT WAS A--­
tDEEMLY I 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above car-
EUGENIA LAST


HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Miko Hughes, 20; Drew Barrymore, 31; Lea Salonga, 35; Jeri Ryan, 38 
Happy Hirthday: So much can he accomplished this year no mallcr your stage of life. Learning and applying what you know will help you reach your goals. This is a year of working hard, climhing the ladder and feeling proud of what you achieve. Your head and your heart will he in sync. Your numhers arc 3, 27, 29. 31. 36. 43 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Chat someone up if you arc interested in him or her personally or professionally. Your outgoing know-it-all nature will pay otr today. The more you do to reassure those around you, the more you will gel in return.***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will feel the need to make some changes to your home or living arrangements. Personal rcsponsihilities may interfere with something you were planning to do. Be organilcd and ready to make concessions if you want to complete what you start. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may not he included in something you expected he a part of. If you complain, you will prohahly lose out hul, if you do your own thing, you will leave whoever left you out wondering what you arc doing. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can't push your plans on others. Trying to talk someone into doing things your way will he futile. You will face financial prohlcms if you try to push through a deal that isn't siuing on solid ground. Adopt a healthier lifestyle; you've prohahly hecn neglecting yourself. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You've got the gift of gah today and should put it to good use. You can convince others to take part in something you want to do. Money can be made and deals completed. You can make physical changes that will enhance your appearance. ***** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will he emotionally wasted today if you gel involved in someone else's melodramas. Meddling may he your forte hut today it will hacklire, leaving you in the hot seal. Dehates will only lead to a stalemate. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Romance is looking good if you get involved in functions that include friends, family or ncighhors. If someone doesn't immediately attract, give this person a chance to win your respect and capture your heart. A good conversationalist is far more entertaining. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Past regrets or feeling you missed out should he put to rest. Today is ahout the futmc and how you can turn things around. This is the time to push ahead. Believing in your talents will he half the hattie. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let anyone make you feel guilty. Someone may try to confront you about personal matters--do what you can to avoid his or her comments. Give yourself a chance to think ahout the pros and cons of making life-altering changes."'** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.lan. 19): You may have to keep a secret that makes you feel uneasy. Do so in a discreet manner and put the matter hehind you. M11ke some changes regarding your friendships and your associations. Know whom you can trust.*** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): You must not feel ohligated to help a group or even a friend financially. Offer your guidance. understanding and know-how hut not cash. A new acquaintance can lead to a venture that interests you. •••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Arguments will leave you feeling exhausted and your own stuhhornness will he at fault. Put yourself in other people's shoes. Positive connections can he made if you arc willing to hcnd a~d compromise. ** 
Birthday Baby: You arc determined, entertaining and a smooth operator. You arc creative, emotional and willing to push as hard as you have to to get your way. You have insight, courage and strength of character. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadl..•ice.comforfim, eugenialast.comforconfidential con.rulraticms 

THE OBSERVER 






PORTS
Thursday, February 23, 2006 
page 24 
BENGAL BOUTS 
Ford tops Hicks with strong early rounds 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
The second night of the 2006 Bengal Bouts began with junior Tommy Ford and sophomore Phil Hicks squaring off in the ring and Ford winning by split decision. 
Ford kept Hicks away in the first round by using his superior reach. This reach troubled Hicks throughout the match, who was forced to try to get inside quickly and work combi­nations. But Ford knocked Hicks down in the first and cut his nose in the second. 
see FIGHTS/page 22 


Fight Club 

KELLY HI and HY PHAM/The Observer At left, Patrick Ryan, left, exchanges blows with Andrew Massari in the 165-pound preliminaries Wednesday. Right, Anthony "Tony" Schweiss celebrates a victory over Greg Vallejos. 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish topple Mountaineers on road 

PHIL HUDELSON/The Observer Irish forward Chandrica Smith sails over Providence defenders in a 6648 win over the Friars Feb. 4. The Irish defeated WVU last night. 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Dressed in green uniforms for the first time ever in a regular-season game, Notre Dame recovered from a poor first half with a strong shoot­ing performance in the second to win 70-58 over West Virginia Wednesday in Morgantown. 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw said senior point guard Megan Duffy suggested the idea for the new road jerseys. 
"[Duffy] decided it," McGraw said in a phone inter­view following the game. "She just kind of came in and said, 'What do you think?' And we thought, 'Hey, it's worth a try. It's worth something."' 
Duffy responded to the new uniforms by scoring 22 points on 7-of-12 shooting (5-of-9 from 3-point range). She added four rebounds and four steals. 
Sophomore guard Charel Allen -whose hometown of Monessen, Pa. is less than an hour from Morgantown ­scored 12 points on 5-of-12 shooting off the bench. She had her own opinion of the jerseys and referenced the men's black jerseys debuted in a Feb. 18 win over Seton 
see WVUIpage 21 
HOCKEY 

[ Seniors experienced historic ups and downs 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey class of 2006 has been around for the program's best season (2003-04) and its worst season (2004-05). 
The Irish earned their first­ever NCAA tournament bid and then, one year later, lost 18 straight games in a five-win campaign. 
"Last year, we were pretty bad, and the year before, we were really good," right wing Tim Wallace said. "I think we might go down in the record books as the best and the worst [class in school history]." 
The six Irish seniors -goalie Rory Walsh, defenseman Chris Trick, center Matt Amado, cen­ter Tony Gill, left wing Mike Walsh and Wallace -will be honored Saturday following the team's final regular season game against Alaska-Fairbanks at the Joyce Center. 
see HOCKEY/page 20 


PHIL HUDELSON/The Observer Notre Dame senior center Matt Amado stops in a 2-0 win over Princeton Oct. 29. Amado has 23 goals in his Irish career. 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Leading Leidy to smiles 

Tennis team 'adopts' child with leukemia 
By DAN TAPETILLO Sports Writer 

· Notre Dame moved into the top 10 with its upset over No. 9 Harvard last weekend. But in Emma Leidy's mind, the Irish always have been a high caliber team. 
Emma, a 5-year-old leukemia patient, is one of the team's biggest fans. She attends each match to cheer on "her tennis girls." 
"Every minute she can spend with them is special," Emma's mother, Leann Leidy, said. "She just loves being anywhere the girls are. Even if she feels icky, she's all smiles [at the matches)." 
Leidy is a patient of the South Bend Pediatric Oncology Program 
see TENNIS/page 21 
BASEBALL 

No.22ND 


challenges 
Sycamores 
Irish face ISU in their season-openzng game 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 

For the first time since losing to Florida 23-3 in an elimination game in the NCAA regionals last June, the preseason No. 22 Irish return to the diamond at 4 p.m. 
today in their 2006 season opener against Indiana State in Millington, Tenn. 
"Last year ... we didn't do quite as 


well as we Mainieri would have liked," Irish head coach Paul 
see BASEBALL/page 20 


WINTER OlYMPICS 
NBA 
PGA 
MlB NCAA fOOTBAll 

NCAA BASKETBALl
u.l c.,) Ohno advances to 
Francis traded to Tiger cruises to Midshipmen QB Tennessee 76Minor leaf:e u~z 500-meter final New York match play win to be use in W C charged with rape Florida 72

~ ::5 


The American will The Knicks traded 
Woods has seven 
Major League Navy quarterback 
Dane Bradshaw's compete in the finals of 
c:J 
Penny Hardaway and 

birdies in the first nine 
Baseball's umpires' Lamar Owens was layup with 15 seconds
cs: 

speedskating's shortest Trevor Ariza for 
holes to close out 
union will not be calling 
=: 
accused of raping a 
left gave the No. 10 Vols event. 
Orlando's star gum~. 

Stephen Ames after the 
the World Cup of base-female student. 
the win over the No. 12 
lOth hole. 
ball. 
Gators. 

page 17 page 16 
page 16 
page 15 page 15 page 14 

'\ 







