~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~·~ 

The Indepoulmt Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marys 
VOLUME 41: ISSUE 48 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7. 2006 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
ND community eyes Congressional races 
Negative campaigning, ND alums vying for 3 Iraq spark voter activity of 9 Indiana districts 
By EILEEN DUFFY By LAURA BAUMGARTNER Assistant News Editor News Writer 
Dodging the mud flying between candi­In anticipation of today's midterm dates, voters nationwide head to the polls elections, political advertisements today to potentially return majority power have flooded the media airwaves in to the Democrats in Congress. recent weeks -and included in the 
Notre Dame students, meanwhile, are blitz are the re-election campaign anticipating the. results from their home efforts of six Notre Dame alumni states -as well as from the local contest and four Saint Mary's College alum­in Indiana's Second Congressional District nae. between incumbent Chris Chocola and When polls close today, Indiana two-time Notre Dame alum Joe Donnelly. could potentially be represented in 
Nearly everyone agrees there's one three of its nine Congressional dis­issue looming highest in voters' minds: tricts by Notre Dame graduates. the war in Iraq. Democrats Peter Visclosky and Joe 
"It's pretty obvious that it's Iraq, and the Donnelly are competing for the right general discomfort of many Americans to represent the constituents of the with the continual stream of bad news 1st and 2nd districts, respectively. they get about the war, that seems to be Donnelly, who was defeated by
AP DUSTIN MENNELLAJThe Observer 
an overriding issue as we go into [today], incumbent opponent Chris Chocola
At left, Rep. Chris Chocola speaks Oct. 31 at the Century Center in South Bend. At right, 
Democratic candidate Joe Donnelly speaks in LaFortune Oct. 1. Donnelly and Chocola are 
see ELECTION/page 3 in a tight race for Indiana's 2nd Congressional district. see ALUMS/page 4 

Police eject 28 at football game, make one arrest 
information about it." five for public intoxication 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
"We've tried to check stu­and one for liquor law viola­News Editor 
dents as they come in to try tion. false informing, posses­
to look for marshmallows, sion of marijuana and drug 
Police ejected 28 people, but you know. students find paraphernalia. All offenders arrested one person and ways to get them in," said that were arrested were brought another to the hos­Bob Zerr, Director of Risk transported to St. Joseph pital during Saturday's foot­Management and Safety, who County jail, Johnson said. ball game against North said he knew of one student Twenty-two addition a I Carolina for intoxication or who was injured by marsh­arrest tickets were issued alcohol-related violations. mallows at the football outside the stadium for viola­
Despite the noticeable game. tions of liquor laws, some for increase in the amount of Zerr said he had no minors in consumption. Two marshmallows thrown in the responsibility in checking tickets were issued to juve­student section at halftime. students for marshmallows. niles for violations of liquor Associate Director of Notre but that Risk Management laws, Johnson said. Dame Security/Police Phil works in conjunction with In addition, one person was Johnson did not have any NDSP. He said his office did issued a "trespass warning information. not receive any phone calls after he disregarded officers' 
When asked about reports about the marshmallow-requests to stop drinking 


of students being injured or throwing ' alcohol during the game in sent to the hospital, Johnson Outside the stadium, police said he did "not have any made six custodial arrests, see ARRESTS/page 4 
TIM SULLIVANfThe Observer Students throw marshmallows during the Syracuse game last season. Similar objects thrown during Saturday's game may have caused injury. 
Food Services looks at Fair Trade 
Coffee initiative probably not feasible this year, student senator says 
New committee will study papal encyclical 
Jenkins asked MacCormack to
By MEGHAN WONS 
chair the committee earlier this 
News Wri[er 

semester. MacCormack said she knew Jenkins "had been thinking 
In an effort to encourage discus­about how [the Notre Dame com­sion and reflection in the Notre munity] can reflect on what is, Dame community on the message after all, a very important docu­of Pope Benedict XVI's first ment." encyclical, "God is Love" "I hope the committee will get University President Father John together at our first meeting, get Jenkins has established a new to know each other, and that peo­committee made up of students, ple will have had time to think faculty and staff. about some ideas concerning the 
The committee's first meeting Pontificate's document," will be next week, said committee MacCormack said. chair and history professor Sabine To encourage discussion and MacCormack, and the objectives reflection on Pope Benedict's "God and goals of the committee are is Love" Encyclical, MacCormack "very much at the moment in the making." see JENKINS/page 6 
By KATHLEEN McDONNELL and MARY KATE MALONE News Writers 
A Student Senate resolution calling for Notre Dame Food Services to serve only Fair Trade coffee will probably not be real­ized this year, Senate Social Concerns committee chair Sheena Plamoottil said Monday. 
Plamoottil and student body president Uzzi Shappell met with Director of Food Services David Prentkowski la'!t week to discuss the feasibility of a Senate resolu­tion that calls for all non-fran­chised Notre Dame Food Services locations to serve only Fair Trade coffee. At that meeting, Plamoottil sensed that "it's not feasible" for Food Services to pursue such a far-reaching initia­tive. 
"I don't think [only serving Fair Trade coffee is] going to happen this year.... [Food Services] made us aware of several initia­tives that they had already begun before [the resolution] had come to the table," Plamoottil said. 
Fair Trade pricing en'lures that farmers are paid $1.26 per pound of coffee beans, which is enough to support a family, according to an Oct. 5 Observer article. Fair Trade coffee elimi­nates the middle men -like millers, exporters and importers -and allows farmers to sell their beans directly to the roast­er. 
Prentkowski said in an e-mail Monday that Food Services has already established a committee to address social responsibility issues. The Food Service Social Responsibility Committee's mis­sion i'i "to continuously evaluate and monitor the industry and to recommend and advise the department regarding actions and practices related to social responsibility issues." 
The committee is specifically addressing coffee from the per­spective of social accountability, Prentkowski said, explaining that there are many methods of assuring a socially responsible 
see COFFEE/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, November 7, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Absent 


absentee ballot 

Yesterday, I received a letter from Linda Stender, a Congressional can­didate from New Jersey, thanking me for requesting an absentee bal­lot for this year's general election. 
Well, here it is: Election Jen Metz Day. 

And, sadly, my absentee News Wzre Editor 
ballot is ... absent. 

The county clerk system of, what I have consid­ered until this moment the best state in the union, has failed me. I requested my ballot about a month ago, and they did not deliver. I will not be able to vote for Stender, or "Stender the Spender," according to the opposing campaign's advertise­ments, today. 
Granted, I haven't been following the New Jersey races as closely as I should have. 
I don't quite know what Congressman Mike Ferguson's peo­ple are accusing Stender of spend­ing. The pamphlet that came with her letter tells me she will stand up to the Bush Administration. 
So, I think that means Ferguson likes Bush. Do I like Bush? 
I'm not the most politically-mind­ed individual. Living out here in Indiana has very much removed me from the extremely accusatory and most likely untrue campaign com­mercials that interrupt more impor­tant things. Like the already too short episodes of The Office or my afternoon relaxation sessions spent cooking with the Barefoot Contessa. 
Yet, I still feel like I'm missing out on something important. 
I know voting is one of the essen­tial rights that most Americans often take for granted. 
But that's really not what's both­ering me. I feel as if I'm letting people down. Stender's secretary's computer addressed that letter to me personally. 
Actually, after reading it again, I realize I wouldn't have voted for her anyway. But now poor Ferguson, who isn't accused of doing anything that rhymes with his name, won't get my vote. 
I'm not trying to turn this into the lecture about how a single vote can make a difference, but what if mine would have? 
Now that this right, that's only been mine for a short eight months, is being denied due to an ineffectu­al filing system or too slow mail, I can't help but question why some of the millions of Americans who have the power to vote don't. 
I know the elections are being pushed on us from all directionns -on T.V., on posters, even on Facebook-but I think you should rock it today and share your opin­ions, even if they're as indifferent as mine, just because you can. 
Contact Jen Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please call us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD BE YOUR IDEAL DORM ROOM PET AND WHY? 

Cassidy Russell  Kehau Meyer  Paul Aleman  Cathy Davis  Faustin Weber  Christina Sensabaugh  
sophomore Lyons  sophomore Walsh  sophomore Morrissey  sophomore Lyons  sophomore Keough  sophomore Howard  
,, ..A mummy.  ..A big snake that you could accidentally lose all the  ·}1 marmot."  ·:4 shark riding on an elephant's back just trampling  ..Manbearpig so that finally somone will take me serial. "  '}1 wombat. It's small, furry and cuddly."  


time." and eating 



collection and eye-pop­ping jewels accrued under her husband's dictator­ship -is launching a jew­elry collection using castoffs from her wardrobe and, she claims, flea market finds. 
Marcos, known for her shopping trips to ritzy shops in New York while the country wallowed in poverty, says she made the pieces from her old accessories and clothes, mixed with newly bought stones and other materi­als. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
OFFBEAT 

60 million Chinese are considered obese 
BEIJING -Rising afflu­ence has made about 60 million Chinese -equal to the population of France -obese, state media said on Monday. 
Xinhua News Agency quoted Pan Beilei, a deputy director with the government-affiliated State Food and Nutrition Consultant Committee, as saying that worsening diets had led to health problems, including obe­sity. 
"An increasing number of Chinese are eating more fat and junk food 
TODAY a: 
1.1.1 
::c 
!;: 
1.1.1 
3: 
-I 
<C 
(J 


everything in its path." 
but less grains and veg­etables, leading to a high number of cases of high blood pressure and dia­betes," Pan was quoted as telling a conference on food consumption and health in Beijing. 
Pan said a widening wealth gap meant that the increase in the number of obese people came as 24 million people in China still live in abject poverty and suffer malnutrition. 
Imelda Marcos to launch gems collection 
MANILA, Philippines ­Imelda Marcos -notori­ous for her extensive shoe 

TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURDAY 


IN BRIEF 

The French film "Ma Vie en Rose" will be shown in 116 DeBartolo today at 7:30 p.m. as part of the Gender Studies Program's "Body and Soul­Gender, Religion and Identity" tilm series. 
A lecture on "Diary of a Country Priest," written by Georges Bernanos, will be give by philosophy professor Ralph Mcinerny tonight at 8 in 155 DeBartolo. 
Thomas Reardon, professor of agricultural ecnomics at Michigan State University, will give the lecture "The Supermarket Revolution in Developing Countries: Development Implications" Wednesday at 12:30 p.m. in room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
Acoustic Africa will take place Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The event will be a showcase of African acoustic music featuring three African performers: Habib Koite, Vusi Mahlasela and Dobet Gnahore. Tickets are $36 for the general public, $30 for faculty/staff/sen­iors and $15 for students. 
The lecture "Midterm Election Day Analysis: What Happened & What Now?" will be given at 5:30 p.m. Thursday in the Center for Social Concerns classroom. Faculty will be presenting and members of campus political parties will be present to respond. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 62 HIGH 59 LOW 53 LOW 40 
0 

~ HIGH 60 HIGH 50 HIGH 67 HIGH 65 LOW 54 LOW 42 LOW 53 LOW 52 
Atlanta 59 I 50 Boston 61 I 41 Chicago 61 I 45 Denver 72 I 42 Houston 77 I 58 Los Angeles 85 I 56 Minneapolis 66 I 43  
New York 60 I 48 Philadelphia 59 I 43 Phoenix 90 I 59 Seattle 55 I 52 St. Louis 62 I 49 Tampa 82 I 67 Washington 58 I 44  
I  
~  

Tuesday, November 7, 2006 page 3
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Dining Hall will stay open longer 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
In response to athletes' com­plaints about the Noble Family Dining Hall's 7 p.m. closing time, Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) announced Monday that the dining hall has extend its dinner hours by 30 minutes. 
"Starting tonight the dining hall will be open until 7:30 p.m. [Monday through Thursday]," said student services commissioner Kelly Maus. 
Though the posted hours for din­ner were 4:30 to 7 p.m., some of the food stations had stopped serving food before 7 p.m. and would often take the food away. That left ath­letes, who didn't arrive at the dining hall until 6:45, with limited food options. 
Now, there will be one food sta­tion open after 7 p.m. and that sta­tion will rotate throughout the week. In addition, the salad bar, the deli bar and the cereal station will be open for the extra half-hour. 
"Barry [Bowles, head of campus food service provider Sodexho] talked with [College athletic direc­tor] Lynn Kachmarik about athletes' concerns on [dining halJ] closing time," Maus said. 
Members also discussed the upcoming "12 Days of Christmas "event, sponsored by the senior board. 
"Last week BOG committed to providing five Christmas trees to represent the five main boards [on campus)," student body president Susan Mcllduff said. "Those trees would [be donated] to needy fami­lies." 
BOG is also working with Sodexho to create a to-go mug as a fundrais­er for the "12 Days" event. The mug could be used as a "to-go" cup in the dining halls. 
Notes: 
+College President Carol Ann Mooney will attend the Nov. 20 BOG meeting to discuss the strengths and weaknesses of Saint Mary's. 

+Health and Wellness Commissioner Heidi Goeppinger announced that the Save Kids to Save Uves campaign is "going really well." The event ends Friday, and any Yoplait yogurt lids can be turned in to the front desk of resi­dence halls until then. 
+The freshman board has reserved the Vander Vennet theater Thursday for a First-year "Grey's Anatomy" viewing. 
+The Nov. 11 bus trip to Chicago has been canceled. Instead, there will be two buses available for the Dec. 2 trip because of an expected increase in demand for spots on that date, Mdlduff said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

President George W. Bush. "Voters are determining the
Election 

direction of the country," said continued from page 1 Colwell, who writes a political---------=:..._=------column for the South Bend 
" said political science professor Peri Arnold. 
Mike McKenna, who coordi­nated a Notre Dame "Rock the Vote" campaign that registered about 350 voters and delivered absentee ballots to 300 more, thinks such discontent runs the political gamut. 
"So many Americans, whether Democrat, Republican, Independent or Libertarian, are unsatisfied with the current situ­ation in Iraq," he said. "And the fact is that in re-cent months, the death toll is higher than when we first went to Iraq -it's 
increasing." 
Likening an election cam­paign to a wrestling match, Arnold said Democrats and Republicans define issues in their own ways. 
"Republicans would have it that thlc:; i., a very good economy. They would like that 
"Voters are determining the direction ofthe country.·· 
Jack Colwell American Studies professor 

they can provide for the communi­ty," he said. 
But the experts concur that nega­tive advertising is a necessary evil. 
"It's negative ads that have impact and bring 
story to be the one voters pay attention to," he said. "Democrats would like to respond and say middle-class incomes haven't grown signifi­cantly, in terms of real income. 
"In some sense," he said, "you can think of it as a battle over whose definition gets more attention from voters." 
Despite the many issues ­from Iraq to the economy to immigration -American Studies professor Jack Colwell says the election comes down to Tribune. "Should Bush have a Congress that wouid support him, or a Democratic House?" 

Freshman Kristofer Trujillo is one of the voters who has that detennining power, but he's not voting this year -obtaining an Illinois absentee ballot requires in-person registration, which he didn't have the opportunity to do. There's another aspect of the election that's bothering him: the rampant negative campaigning. 
"It turns you off from trying to care about the issues when all you hear i., a person explaining why another's bad rather than formulating a plan for them­selves, and explaining. what 
about change," 
Colwell said. "That's why they're used nation­wide." 
While negative ads can occa­sionally sour voters from going to the polls at all, Arnold said, they carry information that can occasionally prove seriously detrimental to candidates like Harold Ford, Tennessee's Democratic candidate for Congress. A recent ad question­ing Ford's morals depicted an attractive white woman asking Ford to "Call me." 
"It's very nasty, but it's doing something: it's reminding voters in a southern state that this Democratic nominee is black. That works in favor of white Republicans," Arnold said. "Harold Ford had been running a very good race, what had been a very tight race. After that [ad] he's fallen about 12 points behind. I don't think it's just the ad, but it's part of the effect that's led to his falling behind." 
As Notre Dame College Republicans Vice President Josh Kempf knows, those are the ads that stick. 
On behalf of Chocola, Kempf and other College RepubJicans have been canvassing and work­ing at a phone bank where threatening posters of potential Senate Majority Leader Nancy Pelosi and motivational Bush quotes line the walls. When Chocola calls undecided voters, he asks them to recall negative ads they've seen, Kempf said. Then he asks them to recall posi­tive ones -and they seldom can, Kempf said. 
"Chocola says, 'See? That's what you notice. That's what you remember,"' Kempf said. "I don't think anybody likes them, but that's a fact." 

Helen Adeosun, Notre Dame College Democrats co-president, said the College Democrats have been active in canvassing and phoning for Donnelly's cam­paign, especially since the National College Democrats identified the 2006 election as momentous.· 
"In more than a decade, there's never been a greater sweeping change than the one that could take place [today]," she said. 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy1@nd.edu 


8:00-1 O:OOpm 
Echo Information Session at Legends Restaurant Wednesday, November 8 
{come-and-go format} {free food and drinks} 






Ta morrow Night 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 7, 2006 
Alums 
continued from page 1 
in the election two years ago, is a double alumnus of Notre Dame. He completed his undergraduate education in 1977 and his law degree in 1981. His race against Chocola for a seat in the House has garnered national media attention as one of the key dis­tricts that will determine which party has control of the House. On Nov. 3, the Associated Press reported that of 400 likely voters, 50 percent said they favored Donnelly while 4 7 percent favored Chocola. 
Visclosky is a Notre Dame Law School graduate and has represented the 1st district since 1984. 
Republican candidate Mark Souder is running for his third term re-election in the 3rd dis­trict. Souder -who received his MBA from Notre Dame in 197 4 -also served as a repre­sentative of the 4th district from 1995 until 2002. 
Other Republican candidates from Notre Dame seeking re­election are Michael Ferguson, Peter King and Dan Lungren. 
Ferguson completed his undergraduate work at Notre Dame, earning his bachelor's degree in political science. He has served as the representa­tive for New Jersey's 7th dis­trict since 2000. 
King is a 1968 graduate of the Notre Dame Law School, and is a current member of the University's Law Association board of directors. He repre­sents the 3rd district of New York and is seeking to enter into his ninth term of office. 
On the opposite coast, Lungren -who graduated with honors in English in 1968 -is running for re-election in the 3rd district of California. Lungren has also formerly held the positions of Representative for California's 34th district and served as the state's Attorney General. 
All of the four former Saint Mary's students up for re-elec­tion have made history as females in their political careers. 
''I'm impressed, but not sur­prised, that four women who were educated at [Saint Mary's) are United States law­makers," said College spokes­woman Melanie McDonald. "That's what this College does so well, it educates women to develop their talents and make a difference in the world." 
Eddie Bernice Johnson received her nursing certifi­cate from the College in 1955 and is one of two nurses in the United States House of Representatives. Johnson cur­rently represents the 30th dis­trict of Texas -a position she has held since 1992 -and is the first female and first African American Representative for the Dallas area. 
Fellow Democratic represen­tative Donna Christensen is the first female physician in the history of Congress. Christensen graduated from the College in 1966. 
A representative of the Virgin Islands since 1996, Christensen is the first woman to represent an offshore terri­tory and is the first female del­egate from the Islands. 
Republican Anne Meagher Northup-currently up for re­election as representative for Kentucky's 3rd district -is a 1970 graduate with degrees in economics and business. When she was elected for the first time in 1996, Northup became 


Arrests 
the first female to serve in Congress for Kentucky since 
continued from page 1 
1926, according to a 2004 

said. "This is not an under­cover operation." 
Johnson did not specify whether preliminary breath tests (PBTs) were used or if 
shared with classmates throughout the football sea­sons." 
Johnson said unruly or unlawful behavior can be 
police officers were in uni­reported to NDSP. form or plain-clothed. "Keep in mind that laws 
The patrols will continue regarding the use of alcohol for the next home football will be enforced and you game on Nov. 18, Johnson are responsible for your said. conduct," he said. "Law 
"The last game of the enforcement officers will home season is coming up. arrest underage drinkers on We are particularly con­campus and at tailgate par­cerned about seniors who ties." will be celebrating the last home game of their under­Mary Kate Malone graduate years," Johnson contributed to this report. said. "We hope the final game is a great experience -one seniors remember Contact Kate Antonacci at forever for the fun times kantonac@nd.edu 



t you now. 
We want you to succeed, and all the signs say GO. That's why we've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. At Ernst &Young, we offer award-winning learning tools and arange of experiences, so that you keep moving ahead-from your very first day. So visit us on campus. or at ey.com/usjcareers, 
FORTUNE~ 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ TO WORK FOR~ 
fJJ ERNST&YOUNG 
Quality In Everything We Do 
Observer article. 
The fourth former Saint Mary's student in the election is the current representative for Guam, Democrat Madeleine Zeien Bordallo. When she was first elected in 2002, Bordallo became the first woman to represent Guam in the House. According to McDonald, Bordallo studied in the nursing program at the College before it became a degree program. 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaumgO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
the parking lot," Johnson said. 
Three other no trespass warnings were issued for "re-selling tickets on cam­pus." 
NDSP was assisted outside the stadium by Indiana State Excise Police, South Bend Police and St. Joseph County Police. 
"Police and security staff patrol parking lots to help promote a family friendly game day environment and to enforce Indiana laws regarding alcohol," Johnson 
No 

Audit • Tax • Transaction Advisory Services · 
© 2006 ERNST & YOI;NG UP 


Tuesday, November 7, 2006 CoMPrLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S \VlRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Italian court convicts Egyptian man 
MilAN, Italy-An Egyptian man who is one of the chief suspect<; in the 2004 Madrid train bombings was sentenced to 10 years in jail by an Italian court on Monday. 
The court in Milan convicted Rabei Osman Sayed Ahmed, 35, and a co-defendant, Yahia Ragheh, 23, of subversive association aimed at international terrorism, a charge introduced in Italy after the attack.o;; on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. The younger man was sen­tenced to five years. 
Prosecutor Maurizio Romanelli had sought a 14-year sentence for Ahmed, who was accused of having ties with the terror cell that carried out the March 11, 2004 bombings on the Madrid commuter rail system that killed 191 people and of trying to indoctrinate the younger man with a radical form of Islam after arriving in Italy in December 2003. 
Romane11i identified Ragheh as a would-be suicide bomber, and demanded a seven-year sentence. 
Kyrgyz president makes concessions 
BISHKEK, Kyrgyzstan -The Kyrgyz presi­dent gave in Monday to opposition demands to ftre key law enforcement officials but refused calls to resign even as thousands protested and police guarding his headquarters switched over to the demonstrators' side. 
Early Tuesday, opposition lawmakers held an extraordinary Parliament session and voted on a new draft constitution that would trim President Kurmbanbek Bakiyev's powers. But it was unclear what legal weight their move would carry since only a minority of 39 lawmakers was present. 
There was no mention of an impeachment motion, which opposition legislators had earlier said they would demand at the session. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Judge orders hearing on jurors 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. -A federal judge on Monday scheduled a hearing to deter­mine if jurors who convicted former Alabama Gov. Don Siegelman and former HealthSouth CEO Richard Scrushy of cor­ruption improperly considered informa­tion from the Internet or other outside sources. 
U.S. District Judge Mark Fuller said in an order that he decided to call the Nov. 17 hearing based on a juror's testimony last week that members of the panel vio­lated his instructions while deliberating. 
The two defendants were convicted in June on bribery and conspiracy charges. Prosecutors said Scrushy arranged $500,000 in contributions to Siegelman's campaign for a statewide lottery in exchange for being appointed by Siegelman to a seat on an influential hos­pital regulatory board. 


Crew works to contain 300-acre fire 
RIALTO, Calif. -A wind-driven wildfire scorched more than 300 acres of brush on Monday, torched an industrial yard and forced the evacuation of two schools, offi­cials said. 
The blaze 60 miles east of Los Angeles had threatened 100 homes earlier in the day, but firefighters corralled the fire enough to call off firefighting aircraft within several hours, fire officials said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Ttght races make Tuesday significant 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana voters will decide tightly contested races Tuesday, with control of the Indiana House and three of the nation's most closely watched congressional districts at stake. 
Election officials and political analysts expect those contests to contribute to a higher turnout than the last midterm in 2002, when 38 percent of registered voters cast ballots in Indiana. About 30,000 people will man the state's 5,500 precinct<>. with polls open from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. local time. 
It will be the first general election in which most voters must show a photo ID issued by the state or federal government to ca<>t ballots. 
IRAQ 




Draft law would reinstate jobs 
Shiite-dominated government offers major concession to Saddam's party 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -A day 
after Saddam Hussein was 
sentenced to hang, the 
Shiite-dominated govern­
ment offered a major con­
cession Monday to his 
Sunni backers that could 
see thousands of members 
of the ousted dictator's 
Baath party reinstated in 
their jobs. 

With a tight curfew holding down violence after Saddam's guilty ver­dict and death sentence, the government reached out to disaffected Sunnis in hopes of enticing them away from the insurgency, which has killed tens of thousands of Iraqis and is responsible for the vast majority of U.S. casual­ties. 
The U.S. military announced the deaths of five more American troops, two in a helicopter crash north of Baghdad and three in fighting west of the capital. The deaths raised to 18 the number of U.S. forces killed in the first six days of November. 
Relentless sectarian killings also persisted despite the extraordinary security precautions. Fifty-nine bodies were discovered Sunday and Monday across Iraq, police said. But with no surge in violence, authori­January, the chief prose­Iraqi government to stop On Monday, there were ties were gradually lifting cutor said Monday, setting purging members of indications Khalilzad was the restrictions in Bag­in motion a possible exe­Saddam's Baath party preparing to leave his hdad and two restive cution by mid-February. If from their jobs. Prime post. Sunni provinces: Pedest­the ruling is upheld, The Minister Nouri al-Maliki. National Intelligence rians were allowed back Associated Press has however, has balked at Director John Negroponte, on the capital's streets learned that Iraq's three­U.S. requests to set up an during a visit to Baghdad late Monday afternoon, man presidential council amnesty for insurgents. on Friday, told al-Maliki and the international air­is pledged to allow Al-Maliki has been that Khalilzad would leave port was to reopen Saddam's hanging to take engaged in a public feud about the first of the year Tuesday morning. place. The execution must with U.S. Ambassador and be replaced by Ryan 
Around the country, be carried out within 30 Zalmay Khalilzad since Crocker, a senior career jubilant Shiites celebrated days of the appeals last month, when the diplomat who is now the verdict while Sunnis court's decision. prime minister disputed ambassador to Pakistan, held defiant counter­Sunday's verdict and the envoy's announcement according to two top aides demonstrations. Monday's opening to the that he had agreed to a to the Iraqi leader. They 
Iraq's appeals court is Sunnis were seen as a timeline for progress in spoke on condition of expected to rule on an welcome break for the quelling violence and anonymity because of the appeal by Saddam's United States, which had encouraging Sunnis to sensitivity of the informa­lawyers by the middle of recently called for the join the political process. tion. 


Officials scrub USS Intrepid exit 
Associated Press five miles down river." stars in alignment, and it was just a 
But the toots of salute were soon fol­very disappointing day for us," White 
NEW YORK-It was a send-off of lowed by a big jolt that signaled the said. grand proportions: A police band beginning of the end for Monday's Officials weren't sure when or even sounded patriotic tunes, politicians journey of the USS Intrepid. whether they would try to move the pontificated, helicopters and escort Five powerful h.Igboats strained like Intrepid again or whether they might vessels hovered. the Little Engine That Could to budge try instead to refurbish the ship in it<> 
From a pier, hundreds gathered to the behemoth, which lurched and Manhattan berth, \Vhite said. The next watch the USS Intrepid, a floating, inched backward out of its berth. Its high tide is Dec. 6, but it will be about mothballed aircraft carrier-turned­propellers got stuck in the mud. About a foot lower than Monday's, he said. museum, be towed down the Hudson an hour and only 15 feet later, the Jeffrey McAllister, the lead tugboat River to a New Jersey dry dock for a mud-churned Hudson resembled a pilot, said his firm's six tugs did every­two-year, $60 million renovation. frothy latte. The bountiful tide was thing they could, pulling the aircraft 
"The people doing this have moved a subsiding. carrier with a combined 30,000-horse­thousand ships bigger than the Intrepid oflicials whipped out their power force. Intrepid," Intrepid President Bill \\'bite cell phones and Blackberries. Amid an "We had a lot of horsepower. The said, confident the mission would be a air of tremendous letdown. the mission tide was right. The weatlH'r was right. success. "A ship that survived five was scrubbed. But Mother Nature was against us." kamikaze attacks is going to make it "We had the sun, the moon and the McAllister said. 
Tuesday, November 7, 2006 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Jenkins 
continued from page 1 

said the committee might estab­lish a "student essay prize" and publish the winning essay in a campus publication. 
Senior Patrick Knapp, who is a member of the committee, said he has already started to reflect on the Encyclical's practical applica­tions. 
The most interesting aspect of "God is Love," Knapp said, is its "renewed exploration of Catholic political and sodal activism." 
"It essentially says that social justice is the duty of the laity to carry out in the political sphere, but effort'> should be made in the spirit of love and charity; there can be no social justice without love," he said. 
Knapp said the Encyclical serves "as a sort of polite admon­ishment towards liberation theolo­gy, a school of thought that holds that we are called to arms, literal­ly, to fight for social justice in the name of Christ. A crusade, if you will." 
Pope Benedict presented his Encyclical on Christmas Day 2005, drawing heavily from the First Letter of John. lie cited 1 John 

4:16: "God is love, and he who abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him." In the intro­duction to "God is Love," Pope Benedict wrote that he wished "to speak of the love which God lav­ishes upon us and which we in turn must share with others." 
Jenkins' message in the opening mass of the 2006-2007 school year echoed the challenge pre­sented in Pope Benedict's encycli­cal. 


Coffee 
continued from page 1 

way of coffee growing and pro­cessing without needing to only serve Fair Trade coffee. 
The University has had Fair Trade coffee available at select locations on campus for more than five years. The Huddlemart, Reekers and the Jordan Hall of Science serve Fair Trade coffee exclusively, and in 2003 Fair Trade was added to several cam­pus venues like Waddick's in O'Shaughnessy Hall and the Cafe Commons in the Mendoza College of Business, among others. 
But that's not good enough for Plamoottil and Amnesty International officials -who helped draft the Senate resolution. 

"This is something we thought was very important to the student body and we wanted to help facili­tate some progress on the situa­tion," Plamoottil said. 
But Prentkowski believes advances can be made without selling Fair Trade coffee exclu­sively. He believes Food Services must strike a balance between the interests of the people it serves and its commitment to social responsibility. North and South dining halls, for example, offer Fair Trade coffee beside flavored coffees, which an~ not Fair Trade­certified. 
"The flavored coffees are extremely popular at this time," Prentkowski said, "at the same time, our procurement staff is searching for socially responsible alternatives." 
Units that do not currently offer a socially responsible alternative will do so by the start of the next semester, he said. 
Prentkowski explained that although the campus franchise operations are under University control, franchisers determine the menus and would thus not be required to make Fair Trade cof-
Jenkins asked members of the Notre Dame community to reflect on whether they will use educa­tion, which he described as the greatest power in the world, "for ourselves or for others." 
He prayed that the Holy Spirit would enable the Notre Dame community to "go forth in this academic year to discover, under­stand and express the truth, and to serve others in love -particu­larly those in greatest need." 
Jenkins announced the mem­bers of his new committee last week. They include theology pro­fessors Lawrence Sullivan, Larry Cunningham and Virgilio Elizondo, history professor John McGreevy, political science profes­sor John Roos, civil engineering and geological sciences professor Stephen Silliman, and philosophy professor Gretchen Reydams­Schilo;;. 
Also included \\ill be film, televi­sion and theater professor Susan Ohmer, Law School professor Paolo Carozza, Dean of the First Year of Studies Hugh Page, Dean of the Mendoza College of Business Carolyn Woo, Associate Vice President of Student Affairs Ann Firth, Associate Vice President of News and Information Don Wycliff, student senators Danny Smith and Pat Knapp, student body president Uzzi Shappell, student Madeleine Ryland, Director of the Center for Social Concerns Father Bill Ues, preprofessional studies professor Father James Foster, Director of Campus Ministry Father Richard Warner and Senior Executive Assistant in the Office of the President Father Jim McDonald. 
Contact Meghan Woos at mwons@nd.edu 
fee available. 
At least 50 percent of the coffee offered through Food Services is Fair Trade-certified, and it is up to the student, Prentkowski said, to choose whether or not to pur­chase Fair Trade coffee. 
In hopes of convincing more stu­dentc;; to choose Fair Trade coffee, Amnesty International and the Student Senate are directing their efforts towards educating the Notre Dame community about the issue. 
Amnesty International had been raising awareness about the issue through a series of posters. The club has alo;;o been in contact with Catholic Relief Services and the United Students for Fair Trade in hopes of "getting involved in a broader sense and seeing if we want to have events that are mon~ publicized throughout the coun­try," said Amnesty International secretary Gary Nijak. 
Plamoottil believes changing the minds of Notre Dame students can be as simple as disseminating information. 
"I wouldn't say students are uninterested," she said, noting that students she's spoken with have been receptive of the goal" of the project. 
The problem lies in the lack of awareness, she said. 
"Not many [students] are aware of exactly what [Fair Trade] is," Plamoottil said. 
A little more money for a cup of Fair Trade coffee, Nijak said, can go a long way. 
"You have the ability to pay a few more cents," he said. "It's about making a choice to do the right thing ... that's been a huge focus of our campaign -the fact that through your simple pur­chase every single day you can make a choice to live a moral life." 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu and Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 


Tuesday, November 7, 2006 

page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

12,105.55 +119.51
jones 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume 2,468 124 810 ~ 13,438,400 


FTSE I OO(London) 6,224.50 +76.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) 

+1.45 +0.61 42.5• 
INTEL CP (INTC) 

+1.50 +0.31 20.8: 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 

+0.38 +0.11 28.8• 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE  _  -0.13  -0.006  4.70~  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.30  -0.015  4.94(  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.33  -0.016  4.79~  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.09  -0.004  4.68~  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.88  60.0:  
GOLD ($rrroy oz.)  -1.30  627.91  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.93  90.S:  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  118.1051  
EURO  0.7841  
POUND  0.5261  
CANADIAN$  1.129:  

IN BRIEF 
PayPal offers incentives for holidays 
NEW YORK -PayPal, the payment-service company owned by online auction site eBay Inc., said Monday it will launch an incentive program. allowing customers who subscribe to the service to receive cash rebates of up to $20 on several thousand merchants' sites in North America. 
In a release, PayPal said that the cash rebate programs, valued at $100 million, will be avail­able to consumers from Nov. 23 through May 15. Free shipping promotions will be available begin­ning Nov. 23. 
Some of the merchants' sites in addition to eBay that will offer PayPal customers cash rebate offers are cooking.com, starbucks.com, walgreens.com and buy.com, according to Amanda Pires, a PayPal spokeswoman. 
In the third quarter, PayPal contributed $350 million to eBay's top line, up 41 percent from a year ago, and claimed a total of 123 million users. The payment system faces competition from · Google Inc.'s Google Checkout, an online wallet and payment system that launched in June. 
Wal-Mart price cuts hurt competitors 
NEW YORK -A simple jar of baby food might not say much about the state of the economy, except when Wal-Mart is involved. 
The world's biggest retailer has slashed in half its price for some of its Gerber baby food, a bold move that no doubt is being welcomed by many parents with toddlers. It's also symp­tomatic of what's shaping up as a bruising brawl likely to break out among retailers nationwide as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. tries to re­ignite sales growth at its stores. 
In a roundabout way, Wal-Marts woes also could turn out to be good news for the econo­my. As it aggressively cuts prices and rivals are forced to follow, inflationary pressures could weaken. 
That could be a welcome sign to the Federal Reserve. Its policymakers raised interest rates 17 times over the last two years, attempting to control inflation by slowing the economy. They left rates unchanged at the last three meet­ings, hoping they'd done ('nough. 
With oil and gasoline prices sharply retreat­ing in recent months, a Wal-Mart-induced price-war could further deflate costs in cate­gories like toys, electronics and food. 
Mergers drive market higher 

News revives belief among investors that stocks are generally not overvalued 
Associated Press  
NEW  YORK  -Merger  
news drove Wall Street high­ 
er Monday as private-Pquity  
buyout ofl"ers for companies  
including  Four  Seasons  
Hotels Inc. and OSI Rest­ 
aurant Partners Inc. revived  
the belief among investors  
that stocks are not generally  
overvalued. The Dow Jones  
industrials rose more than  
100 points.  
The rise in stocks came a  
day  ahead  of  the  U.S.  
midterm elections, which  
many polls forecast will  
result  in  gains  for  the  
Democrats. The prospect of a  
shift in power didn't seem to  
unnerve investors.  
"I think what you're seeing  
on the tape is a reflection of  
the amount of money that  
has been raised in the pri­ 
vatc equity pools and that  
money is starting to go to  
work," said John ()'Don­ 
oghue, co-head of equities at  
Cowen&Co.  
He also said investors are  
growing more confident that  
the elections will bring !:,'Tid­ 
lock  in  Washington,  a  
prospect Wall Street finds  
pleasing because it is seen a.<;  
reducing risks to business  
interests.  
In midafternoon trading,  
the Dow gained rose 105.74, AP  
or 0.88 percent, to 12,091.. A meeting room is seen in the Four Seasons Hotel In San Francisco Monday. Investors  
78. The Dow moved back have joined forces with the hotel chain's CEO in a plan to take the company private.  
above the benchmark 12,000  
level after closing below that  facilities in Nigeria helped  reaction to comments from  years.  
Friday.  The  Dow  hadn't  push stocks lower. While  Chicago Federal Reserve  O'Donoghue  believes  
dosed beluw that level since  those fears receded after vio­ President  Michael  H.  investors will be examining  
it first finished above 12,000  lence proved to be less wide­ Moskow about inflation, a  valuations of stocks to see  
for the first time on Oct. 19  spread than expected, an  normally sensitive subject for  whether they are too low  
Broader stock indicators  OPEC official said Monday  Wall Street. Moskow was  because the latest buyout  
also advanced. The Standard  that further production could  quoted in prepared remarks  offers carry hefty premiums  
& Poor's 500 index was up  be needed this year. Light,  as saying that the risk of  for some companies.  
13.98, or 1.02 percent, at  sweet crude was up 81 cents  inflation remaining too high  Interest in private equity  
1,378.28, and the Nasdaq  $59.95 a barrel on the New  outweighs the risk that eco­ deals has increased as costs  
composite index advanced  York Mercantile Exchange.  nomic growth will slow too  public companies face for  
33.01, or 1.42 percent, to  Stocks  rose  sharply in  much.  regulatory compliance has  
2,363.80.  October as investors sensed  While Moskow is a nonvot­ increased, in large part due  
Bonds were little changed,  that corporate profits would  ing member of the Fed's  to legislation aimed at curb­ 
with the yield on the bench­ hold  up  as  the economy  Open Market Committee,  ing high-profile scandals  
mark 1 0-year Trea.<>ury note  cooled. That notion lost back­ which sets policy on short­ seen in recent years such as  
flat at 4.71 percent from late  ers last week, however, as  term interest rates, investors  the one that eventually felled  
Friday. The dollar wa.<; mixed  negative  economic  data  are hoping that the economy  Enron Corp. In addition,  
against other major curren­ stirred fears the economy  will slow adequately to ea.<;e  many private equity firms  
cies, while gold prices fell.  was  cooling too  quickly.  inflation  concerns  and  see opportunity in taking a  
Investors shrugged off a  Stocks ended  lower  last  prompt the central bank to  company private, improving  
moderate  rise  in  crude  week, with the Dow down for  lower interest rates. The Fed  operations and reaping the  
prices.  Last  week,  an  six straight sessions for the  left rates unchanged at its  windfall if a  company is  
increase in oil prompted by  flrst time since June 2005.  last three meetings after 17  again taken public.  
concern about attacks on  Investors showed little  straight increases over two  




Production cuts meanhigher prices 
Associated Press the airport service counter. year, but said they are up 9 percent in 
"I think they're going to have 2006 mainly to the phase-out of the 
DETROIT -As the nation's Big increased costs, which they will have Taurus model, whieh in its fmal year of Three automakers remake themselves to try to pass on," said Michael production was sold primarily to rental into smaller, leaner companies, the Millman, an analyst who follows the companies. Ford expecl<> fleet sales to rental car business is suffering collat­ear rental bu!-.iness for Soleil Securities drop next year without 175,000 eral damage. in suburban New York City. Taurus models on the market. 
All three have cut production this General Motors Corp., the nation's DaimlerChrysler AG's Chrysler year to bring supply in line with lower largest automaker, said last week its Group also won't give out fleet num­demand for their products, and further sales to rental car companies and bers but said it had reduced them in cuts are inevitable next year. They're other fleet buyers in October were October in line with a strategy to focus also trying to wean themselves of down by 10,000 vehicles compared to more on retail sales. rebates and other incentives to bring the same month last year. Company At Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group sales prices closer to the sticker. officials have predicted a reduction of Inc.• President and Chief Executive 
That means fewer cars available for 80,000 to 90,000 for the full calendar Gary Paxton said the company ha.o;; fm­low-profit bulk sales to rental compa­year, with the decline continuing into ished negotiations on its 2007 purcha.<>­nies, and some industry analysts and next year. es and likely will need per-day rental rental company officials say that Ford Motor Co. won't give specific price increases of 7 percent next year already has led to price increases at fleet sales numbers until later in the to cover increased costs. 
. _'-,·-, -,_
'T'. 

-~----.... 
THE OBSERVER 
p

page 8 


Tuesday, November 7, 2006 

THE OBSERVER 
A time for choosing 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Gilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNFSS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
N~ EDITORS: Kate Anronacci 
Mary Kate Malone 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CoNTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 
SYSTEMS ADMINIS1'RATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
fAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.} @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, ·daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials repn:sent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, .A&istant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the &litor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qurrtiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ob.crver (USPS 59'J 2-4000) i; puhliJml Mond•y through FrHhy OC<jX during exam and vacnion pt"riods. A subsuiption m 1be O~rvt"r is $100 for one academic yn;r; $55 fur one w:mc:srcr. 
The Observer is publisbed at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining H.tl Send ad.dtes.s oom:ctiom tu: 
Notre Dame, IN 46S~m Th< Observer 
Pcriodial pomgc: poid at Nom: Dame PO. Boxm 
md ack!irional mailing officts. 024 Sot11h Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN •6556-0779 
The Observor ia • memh<r ofthe hsociatcd Pr=. Allteproduaion cighu U< r=m:d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Graphics  
Mary Kate  Jarred Wafer  
Malone  Sports  
Katie Kohler  Amy Dixon  
Katie McDonnell  Jay Fitzpatrick  
Viewpoint  Fran Tolan  
Molly  Scene  
Kring  Analise Lipari  

In 1964, when conservative Republicanism was at its nadir, Ronald Reagan gave a speech in support of Republican presidential candidate Barry Goldwater entitled, "A Time for Choosing." In that speech, Reagan said, "This is the issue of this election: Whether we believe in our capacity for self-gov­ernment or whether we abandon the American revolution and confess that a lit­tle intellectual elite in a far-distant capitol can plan our lives for us better than we can plan them ourselves." Those words sparked Ronald Reagan's political career and a revived conservative movement which helped him win the White House. 
Today the people of Indiana's Second District face that same issue in this election. At the time this column was written, recent polls placed Democrat Joe Donnelly and Republican Chris Chocola in a statistical dead heat, and today voters must decide whether the candidate they elect will create a gov­ernment which works for the intellec­tual elite or the people of Indiana. 
Throughout his campaign, Donnelly has asserted that he is a pro-life mod­erate who would be an independent voice for Indiana. In fact, on his cam­paign website's section on life issues, Donnelly claims, "In keeping with my personal faith and family values, I have consistently opposed abortion and will continue to do so in Congress ... I will always vote according to my faith and my conscience on life issues." I would like to think that Joe Donnelly is an honorable and honest man, so I will take him at his word. 
Unfortunately, this forces Donnelly to choose between his conscience and his party. Nancy Pelosi, the current Democratic House Minority Leader, 

Jonathan Klinger 

Forward the Revolution 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
would likely be the Speaker of the House in the event of a Democratic takeover. Nancy Pelosi's voting record, like those of most of the House Democratic leadership, has awarded her with a perfect 100 score from NAHAL Pro-Choice America, and a stark zero from National Right to Life. In order for Joe Donnelly to "always vote according to [his] faith and [his] conscience on life issues," he would have to vote against his party for Speaker, which is so serious that it is akin to changing from one party to another. 
If elected, Joe Donnelly would be forced to vote against his most cher­ished beliefs to install Democratic leaders in the House of Representatives who don't trust Hoosier values, but pursue the agenda of that small intellectual elite identified by Ronald Reagan. Joe Donnelly's Democratic House leadership would appoint Rep. Dennis Kucinich as chair­man of the House Government Reform Committee's Subcommittee on National Security. If you haven't heard, Dennis Kucinich once said that "we cannot justify giving the Attorney General the ability to designate domestic terror groups," and argued that the removal of the terrorist regime in Afghanistan was unjustified. 
The Democratic House leadership Joe Donnelly would put in power would place John Dingell in the chair­man's seat of the House Energy Committee. Rep. Dingell voted four times to raise the tax on gasoline. Gas taxes are arguably regressive, but the wallets of lower-income Americans are apparently unimportant compared to the theories of a small, intellectual elite. On key issues as energy, abor­tion, national security and others Joe Donnelly's Democratic leadership just doesn't trust the American people to govern themselves. 
I have never met Joe Donnelly, ·and as such I give him the benefit of the doubt that he is an honest man with good intentions. Unfortunately, the fact of the matter is that Joe Donnelly would vote for Democratic House lead­ers who care more for the machina­tions of a small intellectual elite than the needs of everyday workers. 
As Ronald Reagan so eloquently said, this is a time for choosing. Fortunately we do have a choice who would contin­ue Reagan's legacy and trust the peo­ple to govern themselves. Chris Chocola has a track record of inde­pendence, unblemished ethics and leadership (particularly in the area of spending discipline) in the House of Representatives which is consistent with the Indiana values he holds so dearly. 
In contrast to Chris' Democratic predecessor Tim Roemer, who lived in Washington and rarely returned home, Representative Chocola returns here every weekend on the red-eye flight and spends his time helping seniors sign up for Medicare prescription drug benefits, building support for job development and listening to the con­cerns of the people he serves. The dif­ference is clear. 
Regardless of the outcome, today will be a historic day in American politics. If we choose Joe Donnelly, our country will lose one of its brightest and most committed leaders, and our Congress will likely serve the interests of a small, intellectual elite. If we choose Chris Chocola, we can keep Reagan's legacy alive through at least one seat in Congress and build a renewed majority which believes in our capacity for self-government. It's your choice. 
Jonathan Klinger is a senior man­agement consulting major and the President of the Notre Dame College Republicans. He currently resides in Keenan Hall and enjoys Tolstoy and Matlock. He can be contacted viae­mail at jklinge@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 

Do you think the decision to give graduate students access to USC tickets was the correct one? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
iSubmitaLetter 








to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
·.·.-.-~_).'-""" 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Beauty is not caused. It is ... 
Emily Dickinson poet 



Vote Libertarian 
"The American political system is like a gigantic Mexican Christmas fiesta. Each political party is a huge pinata -a paper donkey, for example. The donkey is filled with full employment, low interest rates, affordable housing, comprehensive med­ical benefits, a bal­
Mark

anced budget and 

Poyar

other goodies. The American voter is Guest blindfolded and given Columnist a stick. The voter then swings the stick wildly in every direction, trying to hit a political candidate on the head and knock some sense into the silly fool." 
These lines ring as true today as they did fifteen years ago when PJ O'Rourke published his classic, "Parliament of Whores." 
Election time always brings out the worst in the candidates. While there isn't necessarily anything wrong with negative ads that attack the opposition candidate's voting record or policies, this is seldom the type of ad used. After taking a few actions of the opposing candidate out of context, the commercial not-so-subtly implies that not only does the other guy cheat on his payroll taxes and hate his constituents, he probably also eats babies and kills puppies for a living. These types of ad hominem attacks are cheap attempts to distract from the real issues in an election, yet character assassina­tion is usually the only strategy used. In the minds of the two major parties, there is no right or wrong. There is only power. 
While each party would have you believe that their party represents a clear alternative to the other fiscally, the difference is largely one of rhetoric, not of principle. Neither has a problem with taking your money and giving it to some­one else to whom it does not belong; the only debate is over who should be the recipient of this confiscated wealth. Whether your wealth goes to pay people not to work through welfare, to pay old people because they are old through Social Security or Medicare or to pay cor­porations because they are well connect­ed through no-bid contracts, it really doesn't make too much of a difference; Both parties either view the citizen as a sheep to be fleeced or a constituent to lavish the money of others upon. Each views the citizen as a thing to be regulat­ed and controlled. 
If you actually believe that the Republicans represent an alternative to the tax and spend Democrats, consider the fact that between the years 2001 and 2006, federal spending has increased from $1.657 trillion to $2.488 trillion, all years of Republican control of both the House of Representatives and the Presidency. The Republicans have been in full control of both the Executive and Legislative branches since 2002, yet the self-proclaimed "party of small govern­ment" has been responsible for this unprecedented increase in federal gov­ernment spending, unrivaled in the last 50 years except for the "great spender"-Lyndon B. Johnson. Clearly, the Republicans are no alternative. 
Similarly, while each party would have you believe that their party represents a clear alternative to the other on social issues, the difference is again largely one of rhetoric, not of prindple. Neither actu­ally believes that a person owns himself -if he owns himself, he has the right to do what he pleases with his own body and property, as long as he doesn't infringe on the right of others to do the same. No one's rights have been violated when a person decides he wants to play poker with his own money online. It is his property and he has the right to use it as he pleases. No one's rights have been vio­lated when a person decides that he wants to use drugs in his own home. He owns himself and therefore has the right to put whatever he wants in his own body, even if it hurts him. No one's rights have been violated when a person decides he doesn't want to live any more. 
Since he owns himself, he has the right to die if he wants. No one's rights have been violated when a person says some­thing offensive on a college campus. Victimless crimes are not crimes, yet internet gambling is illegal (except for a few exceptions), the Drug War persists, euthanasia is illegal in most states and speech codes are prevalent. Again, the citizen is viewed as a thing to be regulat­ed and controlled. 
This election, vote for the only party that wants you to keep what you earn. Vote for the only party that believes that it is none of the government's business what you do as long as you don't hurt others. Vote for the party that believes the Constitution means what it says. Vote for one of the only parties that has con­sistently stood against the war. Do as PJ O'Rourke would: knock some sense into the silly fools. This election, vote for the party of peace, freedom and free mar­kets: vote Libertarian. 
Mark Poyar is a junior Finance major. He is currently Vtce President ofthe College Libertarians. Their website is www.nd.edu/-liberty. He can be contact­ed at mpoyar@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Irish spirit strong among graduate students 
I was disappointed and offended to learn the "iew that under­graduates seem to have of graduate students at Notre Dame. The following statement could not be more unfounded: "The sense of identity that undergraduates derive from their place at the universi­ty is for the most part absent in graduate students who have stronger ties to their own colleges." 
I attended a public undergraduate university and dreamt of one day being able to have the college experience I had missed. I sacri­ficed to make that happen, cried the day I found out I got into Notre Dame and have taken on almost $100,000 worth ofloans to see my dream through. I pray at the grotto, attend mass in the basilica, and lived on campus last year. I purchased Father Hesburgh's book and got him to sign it for me. I have the "Here Come the Irish" video linked to my e-mail signature, and my eyes get watery every time I hear the Alma Mater. I played on the MBA Late-night Olympics team, which won last year, and I took photos on the sidelines as my classmates won the flag football championship in the stadium last year (many of them claimed it was the greatest moment of their lives). I am one of the MBA students who took an RV to the Georgia Tech game, rented a bus to attend the MSU game and woke up at 3 
a.m. to watch the UClA game online from a hotel room in China. 
I am not concerned with our right to purchase tickets to away games-as you can see, I've gone through the trouble of finding tickets on my own. My point is that I am just as Irish as anyone and no one can ever take that away from me. No one has a right to defme what someone else's experience at Notre Dame is (or isn't). Like most undergrads, I love Notre Dame with ali my heart, am proud to be a student here, have made some of the greatest friends in the world here, will always cheer for the Irish and give back to this community that has given me some of the best memories of my life. 
Most of the people I spend time with are MBA students and they have as much school spirit as anyone. They are outstanding people who possess the types of values that should characterize all Notre Dame students. We might not be fortunate enough to experience everything that Notre Dame offers its undergrads during their four years here, but we go out of our way to take in as much of Notre Dame as possible. And if you ask me, we appreciate it even more because of what we have sacrificed to be here and because we appreciate how great we have it here versus at other schools. 
I hope the letters we have sent will change the perspective that undergrads have of us. However, even if they don't, no one can take from us the right to call ourselves Irish or the wonderful experience we are getting as Notre Dame students. 
Carolyn Torres grad student ofT campus 
Nov. 6 


A woman's view on Plan B 
I would like to add a female voice to the dis­cussion concerning Plan B. In Andrew Rosatostates' Letter to the Editor ("Plan B destroys embryo in some cases," Nov. 3), he writes, "Taking Plan B causes the destruction of a human embryo in those cases where it pre­vents its implantation." The use of the word "destruction" is a bit strong. If Plan B were a pill full of microscopic men with machetes and machine guns being transported directly to the uterus •.vith the sole purpose of mutilating a fer­tilized egg, then "destruction" might be appro­priate. But from my understanding. that is not the case. 
Emergency contraceptives are to be used in case of an emergency (what a concept). Condoms fail. The pill fails. Furthermore, aren't those also ways of preventing pregnancy? Plan B is the second choice to preventing pregnan­cies when previous efforts break or when your mother-in-law manipulates your birth control pill a la Desperate Housewives. 
The distributors of Plan B do not deny the possibility of preventing the implantation of an embryo in the uterus, therefore neither will I. They do, however, confess that there is no evi­dence proving that Plan B will harm the fetus (nor the woman, but she's usually not the issue in these arguments) during early pregnancy. You see, friends, an embryo is not a pregnancy until it is implanted in the uterus. An abortifa­cient is something that terminates a pregnancy, not something that prevents an embryo from attaching to the uterus. So, riddle me this: Doesn't every embryo have the same possibility of not implanting, with or without the super dose of hormones? 
Pregnancy is such a fickle thing; sometimes it lasts nine months, sometimes it doesn't. When attacking Plan B, please keep in mind that the Food and Drug Administration and the manu­facturers of Plan B are required to state that it may prevent implantation. There is no indis­putable video evidence for either side, thus the call on the field must stand. This is the same FDA that has to warn you that your Viagra may cause blindness. But, then again, what do I know? I'm just a woman and it's just my body. 
Shawn Ahmed grad student offcampus Nov. 3 


Vary the stadium wave 
There are two very different views on the wave's place in Notre Dame Stadium. One is that it belongs in the same place as "thunder sticks," and that place is nowhere near any sporting event (but that's a whole different issue). The other view is that it is harmless and fun. I happen to fall somewhere in between these views, but I want to bring up a few rules that I feel are necessary for good "waving." 
The first rule is that the game needs to be out of hand. This will be defined as a lead of over twenty points late in the third quarter. This means that the wave is not allowed late in the first half when we're trying to score more points (like this past week's game). The second rule is that we have to make the wave unique. We're talking about Notre Dame here. There are currently scientists working around the clock to find a way for us to "light up the universe." No ordinary wave will do. 
I suggest two wave variations to get us start­ed. The first is to split the wave into two parts. This has been done before; it's when the stu­dent section sends the wave back in the oppo­site direction so that two waves cross each other. The second is to do the slow motion wave. To my knowledge this has never been done before. During this variation, the student section will slow the wave down by standing up slowly and waiting a longer amount of time before starting their own individual wave. 
There is, of course, one more alternative to consider: sit (or stand) on your seat and watch the bloody football game. 
David Heroux 
sophomore 
Zahm Hall 
Nov. 6 



page 10 Tuesday, November 7, 2006 




SARAH LOVELAND 
'BIG LOVE' REVIEW 
Questions of love and gender politics have been central aspects of the human condition from the time of the ancient Greeks until the modern era. These questions also lie at the core of Charles 
L. Mee's play "Big Love," the first main­stage production of the film, television and theater (FTT) department's 2006­2007 season. 
Based on Aeschylus's "The Suppliant Women," which is considered the earli­est surviving play in Western drama, "Big Love" takes the ancient plot of its source material and updates it as an examination of modern gender politics, creating a theatrical hybrid of vaudeville and tragicomedy. 
The play opens in turmoil, with 50 Greek brides flee by boat to an Italian in order to escape their forced marriages to their 50 cousins. The 50 sisters are represented by three: Lydia (Sarah Loveland), Thyona (Megan O'Donoghue) and Olympia (Tashi Thomas). After con­vincing the villa's owner Piero (Luke Cieslewicz), his nephew Giuliano (Conor Woods) and grandmother Bella (Meg Robenalt) to allow them to stay, their plans are abruptly thwarted by the arrival of the 50 grooms, led by Constantine (Drew McElligott), Nikos {Matt Goodrich) and Oed {Mike Anderson). The two opposing sides find their strongest voices in the extreme positions of Thyona and Constantine. 
Plans are hatched, emotions explode and an engaging dialogue on the inequalities of the human experience is present throughout the play. Mee blends the age-old battle of the sexes found in Aeschylus's original text with various contemporary American themes, such as domestic abuse, date rape and gen­der inequality. Much of the play is taken up in an exhaustive and exhausting demonstration of just how deeply gen­der animosities can grow and how hor­rifying the consequences can be when a balance is not found. 
Directed by FTT faculty member Siiri Scott, "Big Love" has been an exciting, 
ANNAAMBERKAR!The Observer 
Lydia (Sarah Loveland), right, convinces Piero (Luke Cieslewicz) to let his villa shelter the 50 women fleeing from their marriage-minded cousins In "Big Love." 
'BIG BIG IS! 

TT Department tackle 
yet difficult production for all involved. The performances are being held in the Philbin Studio Theater at the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, as opposed to the Decio Mainstage. Senior Ashley Kelly, the production's stage manager, emphasized the flexibility and creativity that the Philbin grants any production. It allows for "limitless things in the space ... that wouldn't be possible in the Decio," Kelly said. 
Kelly also noted the challenge that the space presents for the actors. 
"I think its more challenging for an actor," Kelly said. "Because you get extremely close to the audience, where­as in the Decio you can't even see them." 
The smaller space also places more emphasis on the staging area itself. The set design is simple and attractive, high­lighted by the lighting design of Notre Dame professor Richard Dreyer. The technical difficulties of the play, mainly attributed to the transitions between the varying tempos, are solved through the expert use of music and light through­out the play. 
Sophomore crew member Caitlin Madden emphasized the use of the music and light in order to help the audience members follow along with the story. 
"You've got a whole bunch of difl'erent things trying to happen at .once and in order to have the audience sit there and respond to these different emotions, you have to make sure that they can feel it," Madden said. 
The fifteen cast members all work together to pull off an exciting and ener­getic storyline. Although many of the members are veterans of the Notre Dame stage, there are also five fresh­man members, which is unusual for a mainstage show. The lead actresses, Loveland, O'Donoghue and Thomas, do a skillful job of expressing the emotional distress and duress of the three sisters. Likewise, the three lead males, McElligott, Goodrich and Anderson, 

STORIES B y E 
serve as ideal balances to all of the points brought up by the women. 
The residents of the Italian villa, Cieslewicz, Woods and Hobenalt, also do an outstanding job in their roles as out­side observers of the central conflict. The cast is rounded out well by Eddie Velazquez, Stephanie Elise Newsome, Ashley Fox, Huyen Nguyen, John Maltese and Joe Vittoria. 
Kelly highlighted the struggles of working with such a large cast and crew. 
"It's a pretty big cast, we have 15, which is borderline between medium and large. We also have a huge stage management team, comparatively," she said. "We have myself, and then a stage manager and then two ASMs. 
"And then we also have a director, an assistant director and a fight choreogra­pher. So [there are] just a lot of people." 
Although "Big Love" is inspired by an ancient story, it impressively contains plenty of thoughtful and inspiring themes, bringing light to modern issues regarding gender politics and relation­ships. 
Loveland in particular notes the play's subject matter and its pertinence to young people. 
"It talks a lot about gender politics and the role of relationships and of men and men. And we're in that stage of our lives, and so are these characters," Loveland said. 
"Big Love" is an excellent produetion, due to both its outstanding script and the wonderful performances by both cast and crew. It is enjoyable not only as a performance piece, but also a re11ee­tion on modernity's approach to men, women and relationships. 
"Big Love" will be performed in the Philbin Studio Theater of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center beginning today at 7:30 p.m. and continuing until Nov. 
17. For further information regarding admission and show times, visit the DPAC website, http://performing arts.nd.edu. 

Tuesday, November 7, 2006 page 11 

R I N MCGINN Q&A WITH 'BIG LOVE' SENIORS 

"Big Love," the latest mainstage pro­duction presented by the film, televi­sion and theater (FTT) department, features several Notre Dame seniors within its large· cast. Those actors -Conor Woods, Drew McElligott, Mike t\nderson and Sarah Loveland -see the production's message, director and unique staging as essential aspects of this latest production. 
Erin McGinn: Why did you decide to get involved with this production of "Big Love?" 
Conor Woods: Well, "Big Love" is a really challenging script in terms of it [having] a lot of movement. It's got a lot of monologues and it's not realistic in the sense of a Tennessee Williams play. It has a lot of abstract moments, and it's really an actor's dream. Almost every character has a moment where they tell their philosophy of life and what they think life and love [are] all about. And I really love the message of the play, which is that love trumps all. So, to be in that [production) is really a treat. 
Drew McElligott: I really liked the script, and I really liked a lot of the characters in it. It's a really character­driven show, [with) a lot of different people in it. That's something that really attracted me to it. We have a really talented director, Siiri Scott. She was actually a huge draw, not only for me, but also for the majority of the other people in the cast. It was just a great opportunity to work with her in a more professional stance. 
Mike Anderson: Well, I knew people that were auditioning, and I had Siiri Scott as a director in many of my class­es. I've had experience with her before, and I wanted to be directed by her, which is one of the main reasons why I auditioned. 
Sarah Loveland: It's always fun to do the departmental shows, and because it is so physical -that's why I was 
ANNA AMBERKAR'The Observer 

:es In a physical battle of the wills with 
e) while the sisters take refuge In Italy. 
drawn to the play initially. And Siiri is a wonderful director. 
McGinn: Can you describe. your char­acter? 
Woods: Yeah, J play an openly gay character [Giulianol. which is always fun. And the character just really helps the three sisters -there are 50 sis­ters, but only three in the play -and just teaches them to be who they are, and in that sense it is a very socially­conscious play. It has a lot of mes­sages. He's very flamboyant and he is just like, "that's the way I am, and that's the way it's going to be." J really thought that was such a great mes­sage, and to get to play someone who is that self-confident is really such a treat. 
McElligott: I am the egotistical jack­ass of the play [Constantine], with a soft side, of course. I am kind of the "manly man" -I represent everything macho, basically. About four lines into the show, everyone hates me, and then it's kind of my fight through the rest of the show to kind of turn [the audience] around on me, and convince them that I actually have a point -that the way J am serves a purpose, which is kind of a big challenge. 
Anderson: My charactm is Oed, he's one of the brothers, cousins of the three girls, that they go to find them to marry them. Oed is kind of the sidekick of the brothers-he doesn't say much. He's quiet and he doesn't say anything unless it's important. He's more of the goofball out of the three brothers. 
Loveland: I am playing Lydia, [who] is one of the three sisters. She's sort of the wild sister who goes out all night, and is kind of crazy, but then she's sort of eventually tamed by love. Well, not necessarily tamed, but she's the one that actually acknowledges love and goes in that direction. 
McGinn: What was it like working on this production? 

Woods: It certainly has been a very challenging production to work on. I think it was a lot harder than wn thought it was going to be, but I feel like we're ready for audiences to just absorb the messages that are in it. And I think that we're really excited about that, and for them to see it. And it's really funny too. It has a lot of really funny moments, but a lot of really thoughtful moments as well. 
McElligott: This production actually has been very different from a lot of shows. In addition to FTT shows, I've done loads upon loads of student shows -I've done about 15 plays dur­ing my time at Notre Dame -and when you do an FTT show, you get to do a lot more technically-speaking. This will be the first time I get to rap­pel from the rafters, and I learned how to flip myself without hurting myself for this show, which was fun to learn. 
Anderson: It's the most physical play that I've ever been in. Just some of the stuff that we do -it's draining. Even though it's a short play, I've had to do a lot of things that I've never done before. This one, it jumps around a lot. It's kind of weird [because] it goes from this reality to this stylized dream stage and back and forth a lot. I think that was different than most of the plays I've done usually, which were more straightforward. 
And some of the stuff we're doing is a lot different, like rappelling down from the catwalks, which is pretty cool. A lot of music is involved in this play too, and usually there was not a ton of music in the shows that I've done in the past. 
Loveland: Well, I was really exeited to get started doing it because it's so physical. The whole time it's just been a bunch of surprises, and everything's been really exciting. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 

Eddie Velazquez, left, and Stephanie Elise Newsome are two of the five freshmen In the cast of 'Big Love,' an uncommon occurrence in first-semester productions. 

CONOR WOODS 
Tuesday, November 7, 2006
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NHL 

Ovechkin helps Capitals come from behind 
on-1 and push a shot between win Thursday with a 32-save
Washington wins 

Kolzig and the near post. effort at Philadelphia. Perrin after trailing by three But Ottawa goalie Martin sealed the 5-2 victory with an 
Gerber gave up the big lead. empty-netter, the first of his two 
Washington got on the score­NHL goals.
Associated Press 

board with 45.8 seconds left in Perrin can count all of his 
WASHINGTON Alex the first period. On a power points on one hand -his goal Ovechkin scored twice to help play, Jamie Heward's shot from and assist gave him five in his Washington overcome an early the point deflected into the net career. In contrast, St. Louis has three-goal deficit, and Chris off Matt Pettinger, who was 151 regular-season goals, 337 Clark netted the winner in over­credited with his first goal of points, and an MVP trophy on time, leading the Capitals to a the season. his resume. 4-3 victory over the Ottawa Senators on Monday night. Lightning 5, Islanders 1 Thrashers 5, Bruins 1 
Ovechkin scored a power-play Childhood friends Martin St. Ilya Kovalchuk scored three goal with 24.4 seconds left in Louis and Eric Perrin teamed power-play goals in similar regulation to tie it. Ottawa up for the tiebreaking power­fashion, Johan Hedberg won his defenseman Chris Phillips was play goal in the second period third straight start and the whistled for tripping with 1:03 that sent the Tampa Bay Atlanta Thrashers defeated the to play and the visitors clinging Lightning to a slump-busting Boston Bruins Monday night. to a 3-2 lead. victory over the New York Kovalchuk staked the 
Clark then scored 1:33 into Islanders on Monday night. Thrashers to an early 2-0 lead the extra period off an assist Perrin added another goal in with his first~ goal, restored the from Alexander Semin, who the third period, and Filip Kuba two-goal lead with 13:40 also assisted on both of scored twice as the Lightning remaining and turned the game Ovechkin's goals. The reigning scored five goals for the third into a rout with a final goal 3 Calder Trophy winner as the straight game. 1/2 minutes later that gave him league's top rookie redirected a St. Louis stretched his point his second hat trick and 11th shot by Semin 7:56 into the sec­streak to nine games when he goal of the season. ond period to cut Washington's fired in a hard shot off a feed His first two goals were from deficit to one goal. from Perrin that gave Tampa just inside the blue line. 
Ottawa led 3-0 less than 12 Bay a 2-1 lead with 7:12 left in Kovalchuk cocked his stick, minutes into the game, chasing the middle period. The pair, took passes from his teammates Washington goalie Olie Kolzig who grew up in Laval, Quebec, and fired shots with such force after only five shots. went on to star together at the that he went down to his right 
Dany Heatley and Antoine University of Vermont but had knee for extra leverage. Vermette also scored and never combined on an NIIL Kovalchuk's third goal was Andrej Meszaros had two goal. from a little closer in, but he assists in that spurt, which Vincent Lecavalier got the again took a pass and fired a prompted Washington coach other assist, giving him points blistering shot before Bruins Glen Hanlon to call timeout and in nine straight games, too. goalie Tim Thomas had time to yank Kolzig, replacing him with Tampa Bay won for just the sec­react. backup Brent Johnson. ond time in six games (2-3-1), Slava Kozlov and Marian 
It was Kolzig's shortest outing with rookie Johan Holmqvist in Hossa also scored for the since March 8, 2003, when he net for both. Thrashers, who have bounced allowed three goals in 10 min­Kuba extended the lead to 3-1 back from losing two straight in utes against Boston. with another power-play goal in regulation with a three-game 
The Senators have lost four the second period and his first winning streak. 21-8 lead in shots on goal. Philadelphia 15-7 and had four straight to fall to 5-7-1 with 40 tally with the Lightning, who Hedberg has been in the nets Kovalchuk had six of them him­power plays, but scored just goals; at the same point a year signed the defenseman away for all three wins, taking over self. once. ago, Ottawa was 11-2 with 64 from the Minnesota Wild in the after No. 1 goalie Kari Lehtonen Battaglia gave Toronto an goals. offseason. Kuba added another had a poor outing against Maple Leafs 4, Ayers 1 early lead after skating from 
The Senators held a closed­man-advantage goal with 7:05 Carolina last week. The backup Nik Antropov, Alexei behind the net, turning and put­door meeting after their last remaining to give Tampa Bay a played so well in road wins over Ponikarovsky a.nd Tomas ting a wrist shot past backup game, but it didn't help and three-goal lead. Washington and the New York Kaberle scored in the third goalie Anterno Niittymaki at Ottawa's unbeaten streak at Perrin made it 5-1 with 4:28 Islanders that he got another period to lead the Toronto 5:25. Washington ended after eight left. start against the Bruins, leaving Maple Leafs to a victory over Toronto's Jeff O'Neill had a games, dating to the 2001-02 Tampa Bay rode two early­Lehtonen on the bench. the sagging Philadelphia Flyers couple of chances, but failed to season. season trends to victory. Struggling to keep up with the on Monday night. elevate the puck on one play in 
Johnson shut down the visi­The Lightning pulled away in home team, Boston picked up Andrew Raycroft made 40 the first and passed up a close tors while he was on the ice, the second period -a frame five penalties in the first period. saves and Bates Battaglia also shot in the second. stopping all 21 shots he faced. they have owned through 15 The Thrashers wasted no time had a goal for the Maple Leafs, Philadelphia took the play to He helped Washington improve games. With the two goals capitalizing on their first two who have won five of six -Toronto in the second, outshoot­to 1-5 in one-goal games this against New York, they have power-play chances, both of including a 4-1 win Saturday at ing the Leafs 17-3. season. outscored opponents 25-9 in the them with Paul Mara in the Buffalo. That was the Sabres' Ben Eager tied the score at 1 
Ottawa went ahead after 1 1/2 second period. Tampa Bay also penalty box for hooking. first loss in regulation this sea­at 2:32 after Toronto's defense minutes, when the Capitals improved to 7-1-1 when scoring Just 11 seconds after Mara's son. failed to get back. Eager skated gave up the puck in their own at least three goals this season. first penalty, Kozlov worked the Ben Eager scored for the in on a partial breakaway and end, and Jason Spezza set up Alexei Zhitnik got the give-and-go to perfection with Flyers, who dropped to 3-10-1 put a wrist shot past Raycroft. Alfredsson 's goal. At 10:25, Islanders even at 1 with 55.5 Hossa, who was parked behind -the worst start in the club's Ponikarovsky and Tucker hit Alfredsson passed to Vermette, seconds left in the first period, the net. When Mara was sent 40-year history and the poorest the post with shots in the third. who skated from left to right in beating Holmqvist with a shot off again, the Thrashers needed record in the NHL. But Antropov scored his first front of the goal before netting from the left point that fluttered all of 20 seconds to find the net. Philadelphia has lost four of goal of the season by putting a a backhander to make it 2-0. through traffic and ticked off From just inside the blue line, six since coach Ken Hitchcock rebound past Niittymaki on the The Senators padded the lead the glove of the goalie before Steve McCarthy sent a cross-ice was fired and Bobby Clarke power play at 7:18 of the third. at 11:51, when Anton finding the net. pass to Kovalchuk, his stick was resigned as general manager on And Ponikarovsky gave Volchenkov sent the puck That was the only blemish for already swinging back before Oct. 22. Toron to a 3-1 lead with an around the boards and Kolzig Holmqvist, who won consecu­his teammate let go of the puck. Toronto had many chances in unassisted goal at 16:06. failed to clear it completely, tive starts in a span of five days. The Thrashers finished the the first period. Kaberle added an empty-netter allowing Heatley to come in 1-He earned his only other NHL first period with a commanding The Maple Leafs outshot at 18:47. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 l.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cems per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
94 Toyota Camry, 4-dr. sedan, dark  Rooms for rent for football weekends.  FOR SALE:  Spring Break 2007 Celebration.  
FoR SALE  green. 123K miles. Good condition. Runs well. $3,000. Call 574-276­ Close to campus. Call 574-243-0658.  NO TICKETS.  WANTED  20th Anniversary w/Sun Splash Tours.Free trip on every 12 before  
9257.  House Available for 07.00 Year. Close to  Nov. 1. Free Meals & Parties,  
3-4 bdrm home, 1.5 BA, 2 mi.N of  Campus. Just Renovated to Brand New  232-0964  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  Hottest Deals Ever. Group  
ND. 2-stall garage. 4 lots. $101,000. 52420 Forestbrook. Call  FoR RENT  Condition. Open to groups of 9-11 StuOOnts. Ca1toc:t MacSwai1@gnai.com  WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS.  Do not go it alone.  Discounts on 6 or more. Hottest Spring Break Destinations. 1800­ 
Terry 574-289-5630 or Ron 277­ 426-7710.  
4122.  BLUE & GOLD HOMES,  2-6 BDRM HOMES 07-QB OR OOW.  TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY  If you or someone you love needs  www.sunsplashtours.com  
off-campus homes & weekend  574-329-0308  
3 bedroom ranch. 1-1/2 bath.  rentals.  WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726.  confidential support or assistance,  WANTED: Somebody to go back in  
Totally remodeled. New kitchen and heating/air.  Bluegoldrentals.com  TICKETS  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK  please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­ time with me. This is not a joke. P.O. Box Oakview, California  
$99,900. 1820 Oak Park near  HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6  7819.  93022. You'll get paid after we get  
Edison/! ronwood.  Bedrooms  Notre Dame tickets.  ETS. BEST PRICES.  back. You must bring your own  
Call Tony  For more information, see our bi- weapons. I have only done this  
574-303-0311.  www.NDstudentrentals.com  251-1570  574-232-2378.  weekly ad in The Observer.  once before.  









ATION 

CoA1PILED FROA1 THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 13
Tuesday, November 7, 2006 
NFL 

NCAA Hockey Associated Press Top 20 
team record 

1 Maine 5-0·1 2 Minnesota 8-1·0 3 Boston CoUege 5-2-0 4 Miami (Ohio) 7-3·0 5 Michigan State 4-2·0 6 North Dakoia 6-3-1 7 Wisconsin 4-4·2 
8 Boston Unllerlity 2-1·3 9 NOTREDAME 6·1·1 10 Michigan 5-3-0 t1 Clarkson 6·1·1 12 Cornell 4·0..0 13 New Hampshire 4-2·0 14 Denver 4-4·0 15 Alaska Aneborage 3·3·2 
16 Rensselaer ·· · 
5·1·1 17 St. Cloud State 4·2·0 . 18 ·Northern Midligan 4·2•0 19 Dartmouth ·· 3·2·1 20 Massadtusetts 4·3·0 
NFL Standings 
AFC East r~tot"c<l .·.·perc. PF .•.. 6-2 .750 

187 
HY Jets ... 4"'4> .·.·· .soo· 1&0 

: ·~::;:: 
i~5 .•.•375. 
124 
2-6 .250 133 



points 
510 476 433 385 318 316 272 
262 
233 218 191 .191 114 
58 31 
17 
PA 
>U4 
•.·193 
163 ··158 
AFC North 
tteeor-d perc. 6-2 .750 4-4 .500 2·6 .250 2~6 .250 
AFCSouth 

team record perc. 

PF 

Indianapolis Jacksonville Houston Tennessee  ~0 5·3 2·6 2-6  1.000 .625 .250 .250  232 175 120 131  
AFC West  
team Denver San Diego Kansas City Oakland  record 6•2 6•2 5-3 2·5  perc. .750 .750 .625 .286  PF 141. 248 183 92  
NFC East  
team NY Giants Philadelphia Dallas Washington  record 6--2 4*4 4*4 3*5  perc. .750 .500 .500 .375  PF 194 223 206 162  
NFC North  
team Chicago Minnesota Green Bay Detroit  record 7~1 4-.4 3~5 2·6  perc. .875 •500 .375 .250  PF 234 130 162 162  
NFC South  
team New Orleans Atlanta Carolina Tampa Bay  record 6·2 5-3 4-4 2-6  perc. .750 .625 .500 .250  PF 198 167 137 102  
team Seattle St.Louis San Francisco Arizona  NFC West record pt1rc. 4-3 .571 4-4 .500 3·5 .375 1·7 .125  PF 149 180 143 134  

173 114 196 216 
PA 98 
134 169 148 
PA 
144 
160 
164 190 
PA 
100 
135 200 203 
PA 
159 164 163 173 
PA 
111 
197 
238 
196 

around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL Toledo at Northern Illinois, 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 

Seattle at Miami, 7:30 p.m., NBATV 

Associated Press 

SEATTLE -Craig Terrill and the Seattle Seahawks delivered the kind of defensive performance they needed with Shaun Alexander and Matt Hasselbeck on the sideline with injuries. 
Facing the Oakland Raiders on a stormy night sure helped the cause. 
Terrill had three of Seattle's nine sacks and Seneca Wallace threw a touchdown pass to get his first win as an NFL starter, a 16-0 victory over the Raiders on Monday night. 
The Seahawks (5-3) had lost three of four games c;ince Alexander, last year's league MVP, was sidelined with a broken foot. Hasselbeck, a Pro Bowl quarterback last year, has missed two straight games with a sprained knee liga­ment, limiting Seattle's big-strike ability. 
But backups Wallace and Maurice Morris did enough to make up for those losses on this night. Wallace went 18-of-30 for 176 yards, including a 22-yard TD pass to Deion Branch in the first quarter, against the Raiders (2-6). 
Morris ran for a career­high 138 yards on 30 car­ries as the Seahawks had a season-high 207 yards on the ground . 
While the backups 
stepped up to help give the defending NFC champion Seahawks a one-game lead over St. Louis in the NFC \Vest, it was the improve­ment on defense that was most notable. 
Seattle had allowed at least 28 points in five suc­cessive games for the first time since its first five games in existence in 1976, and held the opposi­tion scoreless in only one of the previous 17 quar­ters. 
But the Seahawks had little trouble shutting down Oakland's last-ranked offense on a wet and windy night that made it difficult for the offenses. The Raiders gained only 185 yards and failed to score an offensive touch­down for the fifth time in eight games this season. 
Andrew Walter was 16­of-35 for 166 yards and couldn't get the ball deep to Randy Moss against a defense that had been sus­ceptible to the long pass. 
Seattle sacked Walter five times in the first quar~ ter, including on three suc­cessive plays -the last two by Terrill. The Seahawks added four more in the game, raising Oakland's NFL worst total to 44 on the season. 
The Raiders had won two straight after dropping the first five games of the season. 
IN BRIEF 

Rangers hire Washington 
as new manager 

ARLINGTON, Texas -Ron Washington has always been a popu­lar coach with players, stressing communication and letting them be themselves. 
Now he will get his chance as a manager with the Texas Hangers, who wanted and needed somebody with those characteristics. 
''I'm going to be a players' manag­er. My job is solely to make sure that every player on the Texas Rangers feels like they are part of everything going on here," Washington said Monday night. 
"As a manager, I'm no good if the players don't get it done. If the play­ers get it done, I'm great." 
When Buck Showalter was fired after an 80-82 season with three years left on his contract, general manager Jon Daniels said the Rangers needed a "different per­spective." 
Malkin captures player of 
the month llonors 
It took less than a month for Evgeni Malkin to garner his first NHL award. 
Sure he was the rookie of the month for October, but it only took him one day of November to do something that hadn't been done in nearly a century. 
The latest Pittsburgh Penguins phenom has taken the league by storm, capturing piayer of the month honors despite dressing for only five games. 
On Wednesday, Malkin became the first player since the NHL started in 1917 to notch goals in his first six games. 
His second goal in that win over Los Angeles was the difference in a 4-3 overtime victory. 
"It's still a little bit difficult because I'm not used to playing on the wing. But I think it's going to take a little bit of time," said Malkin. 
3-year-old Preak.ness winner 
Bernardini retires LEXINGTON, Ky.-Bernardini has run his last race. 
Two days after finishing second in the $5 million Breeders' Cup Classic, the 3-year-old colt was retired Monday and will stand at stud at Sheik Mohammed's Darley farm. 
Bernardini was the leading Horse of the year contender entering the Classic at Churchill Downs off six straight victories, including the Preakness, the Travers and the Jockey Club Gold Cup. 
Sent off as the even-money favorite in the Classic, Bernardini made a bold move around the turn to take the lead but was overtaken in the stretch by Invasor. 
Bernardini is owned by Sheik Mohammed, the ruler of Dubai. Darley, one of the world's largest breeding operations, said on its Web site that Bernardini's stud fee is $100,000. 
page 14 
NBA 

•
Miller to mtss at least four weeks 

Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO, Calif.-Kings center Brad Miller will miss at least four weeks with an injured left foot, adding the biggest problem yet to. Sacramento's early season woes. 
The 7 -foot Miller, a three-time All-Star, played for the U.S. national team at the world championships in Japan this summer. 
He was diagnosed with a torn plantar fascia in his left foot Monday after the injury limited his playing time on the Kings' road trip last week. 
The ninth-year pro has aver­aged 6.0 points in the Kings' first three games, going 8-for­28 from the field. An MHI yield­ed the result Sacramento feared 

• after Miller was limited to 15 minutes in Saturday's loss at Milwaukee. 
Miller declined comment when he showed up in the Kings' locker room 45 minutes before Monday's game with Minnesota, using crutches and wearing an immobilizing boot on his foot. 
Forwards Shareef Abdur­Rahim, Kenny Thomas and Maurice Taylor will team up to replace Miller for the Kings. The 6-9 Abdur-Rahim seemed confident in his ability to defend the NBA's tallest players. 
"It's not like it's something I haven't done before," Abdur­Rahim said. 
''I'll have to use the advan­tages I might have and just try to keep them off the glass." 
Coach Eric Musselman's first season in Sacramento already has been scarred by injuries. Guard Mike Bibby returned from a thumb injury two weeks earlier than expected to play in last week's season opener. 
r,·­

Tuesday, November 7, 2006 

The Observer • SPORTS 
SHARK SPEED 



Tuesday, November 7, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS page 15 

TAPPERS* NEEDED TO ASSIST BLIND SWIMMERS 
*A tapper stands at each end of the switnming pool and, using a pole \vith a tennis ball attached to the end, taps the swimtner on the head or shoulder as they approach the end to indicate a tun1. Two ND students are training to compete in the 2008 Para-olympics. Tappers are vital part of their program 
ifyou are interested please call the Disability Services office at 631-7157. Or send an etnail to osdt@nd.edu. Tappers are needed during the follo\ving titnes: 
Tuesday & Thursday 11 :00 AM-2:30PM Wednesday 8:30PM-9:30PM 
Mob 
continued from page 20 
play we ran, I'd have all the time in the world." 
On the ensuing Stanford pos­session, the Griffins encountered a third and short. They ran twice, once with fullback Rick Loesing and once with tailback Tregg Duerson, and were stuffed both times by the Mob defensive line, resulting in a turnover on downs. 
Both defenses held strong until the ftrst play of the fourth quar­ter, when Mob running back Braden Turner stretched the ball across the goal line for a one­yard touchdown run to stretch the lead to 12. 
That score capped another 11­play drive that utilized short tim­ing routes to take advantage of Stanford's loose defensive arrangement. 
"The corners were playing ofT the ball seven to ten yards," Stroh said. 
Turner finished with 10 carries for 34 yards and a touchdown, and fullback Mike Mattingly car­ried 10 times for 4 7 yards. The offensive line cre­
ated plenty of "J was confident that backfield of 
holes to allow any play we ran, I'd Klein (7 carries, Turner and 36 yards), Brian
have all the time in
Mattingly to wreak Pieh (7 carries,
the world.,
havoc and keep 45 yards). and drives alive. Nick Bencomo Stanford still had (1 0 carries, 65
Chris Stroh 
a chance to get yards).
Mob quarterback
back in the game, Siegfried was 
McBrayer's first touchdown pass went to Carl Anderson, a play that capped a 1 0-play, 65­yard drive that successfully answered the Ramblers' 35-yard field goal in the first quarter. After forcing a three-and-out on the ensuing series, Morrissey went right back to the passing game. McBrayer hit wide out Dan Reimer over the middle, and the receiver turned it up field for a 41-yard touchdown. 
Following another Rambler three-and-out, McBrayer again led an efficient two-minute drill culminating in a 26-yard touch­down pass to Reimer just before half. 
"I think it was big to air it out before halftime, because at that point we were able to put our foot on their throat," Klein said. "We've defmitely had a stronger passing game this year than in the past." 
McBrayer would also convert several key third-down quarter­back sneaks throughout the con­test, including a 4-yard touch­down in the third quarter to push the score to 27-3. 
Morrissey turned to its tradi­tional power-running attack in 
the second half, 
behind the 
three-pronged 

but a dropped pass in the flat was ruled a fumble and O'Neill recov­ered. The Mob turned the ball over on downs, but left Stanford no time to do anything with the ball. 
"The line was opening up holes, and we were taking advantage of it," Mattingly said. 
Morrissey 27, Siegfried 10 
In the second quarter Sunday, Morrissey quarterback Joe McBrayer unleashed an aerial assault on Siegfried, scoring three touchdowns to put the game out of reach in the Manor's semifmal win. 
"The score was not really indicative of how Siegfried played today," Morrissey fullback Steve Klein said. "We've lost twice in the semis in the past four years, and I think that sen­ior leadership was what put us over the top." 
Senior leadership may have been one of the contributing fac­tors in the game, but Morrissey's passing game was what put it out of reach. McBrayer connect­ed on 6-of-9 passes for 117 yards in the win. 
able to muster a 

small raJly late in the third quarter behind some strong running by fullback Marcus Young, who had 7 car­ries for 36 yards. The Ramblers quickly answered McBrayer's touchdown dive with a quick S­play, 65-yard drive that ended with a 14-yard strike from quar­terback Max Young to receiver Kevin Kelly. 
Young struggled much of the day against a Morrissey line that seemed to get pressure early and often. He did, however manage to complete 7-of-13 passes for 91 yards. But a costly interception to the Manorites' Mike Fletcher on their first second-half posses­sion effectively snuffed out any chance of a rally. 
While the Cinderella run ended for the seventh-seeded Ramblers, Morrissey will face off against O'Neill in Notre Dame Stadium Sunday, Nov. 19. 
"I can't imagine what it's going to feel like," Klein said. "It's amazing." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu and Colin Reimer at creimer@nd.edu 

Fl'lnceeco wa a eMf at NoCre cam. for 25 para 
WELCOME FANS&: FAMILIES! GOOD LUCK CHARLIE! GO IRISH! 

~ 01JdMg atIa &,tl
574 256-1444 
Fine Italian Dining 

1213 Uncoln Way W. Mlahawaka (JustW..tOfThe 100 Center) Italian & American Cuisine 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 7, 2006 

I 
( 
( (
; 
i 
) > 
) 
( 
( 
( 
( 
I 
( I 
( ( I 
( 
~ 
j 



NCAA 
continued from page 20 
Nov. 15 match is still up in the air. Illinois-Chicago enters its game with Western Illinois with a record of 12-2-5 while Western Illinois is 15-7-0. 
The Leathernecks are coming off their third consecutive Mid­Continent Conference title after beating Missouri-Kansas City 2-0 in the title game. The Leathernecks have won five games in a row and seven of their last eight. 
Jllinois-Chicago fell to Loyola on penalty kicks in the semifmals of the Horizon League Conference tournament, but its resume includes a win over No. 8 Saint Louis, a team that tied Notre 
1Jeteran's CVay 
Saturday, November II, 8:00pm Morris Performing Arts Center 
Schumann -9/em England 7riptych Peck -'The [jlory and the !Jru rulrur 

Dame 0-0 on Sept. 1. 
"We don't know much about [Illinois-Chicago or Western Illinois] this year," Clark said. "We'll know more after we watch their game, but they'll be good teams. There aren't any bad teams that make the tourna­ment." 
If the Irish make it past their second round game, potential matchups with No. 5 seed Maryland or No. 4 VIrginia await. Clark, however, will not be judg­ing his opponents by their seed­ing. 
"Seeding is what you've done in the past," Clark said. "It's what you do in the next five games that's important. A lot of things can happen from now on in." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

Weasels 
continued from page 20 

diately after catching the pass and ran unimpeded down the right sideline into the endzone. 
The ensuing Whirlwind drive ended prematurely when Bulfin caught her second pick of the half, this time taking it untouched all the way for a touchdown to extend the lead to 14-0. 
Pasquerilla West tacked on a final score with 7:45 left to play in the second half when Davies converted another fourth­down, going back to Spring for a seven-yard touchdown. 
Purple Weasel defensive back Caitlin O'Connell clinched the game for Pasquerilla West with one final pick of a Gargula pass, this time with five min­utes remaining on the clock. 
The Purple Weasel sideline erupted after finishing the shutout against the No. 1 team. 
"It feels great to beat Welsh Fam. They're a great opponent and we really needed to exe­cute well to beat them the way we did," Spring said. 
Pasquerilla West will play Pangborn in a rematch of last year's championship game. The teams already faced off once this season, with the Phoxes escaping by the slimmest of margins in a 13-12 game. 
"We need to execute the way we did today to beat Pangborn," Spring said. "They're a really good team and we're excited to play them." 
Pangborn 20, Farley 7 

Early in the first half Sunday, Pangborn wide receiver caught a short pass and then ran downfield 35 yards for the touchdown in one of several big plays for the Phoxes in their semifinal win over Farley. 
The win puts the Phoxes back into the championship 

game for the second year in a row. 
"We are excited about play­ing in the stadium again this year. We are definitely planning on coming out on top," Pangborn quarterback Katie Mooney said 
In its opening drive, Pangborn's offense was met by strong pressure from Farley's defensive line. After the Finest forced the Phoxes to punt, Pangborn's defense took the field and refused to yield. Farley quarterback Brittany Baron's attempts to move the ball down the field were stopped by the Phoxes, setting up a Farley punt. 
Farley was determined to keep the game in reach, and on its first possession after the Bescher touchdown answered back with one of their own. Baron threw a short 5-yard pass into the endzone to even the score at 7-7. 
The Phoxes responded quick­ly, adding six more points when Mooney dropped back and found another receiver open in the endzone. A quarterback sneak stretched the lead back to seven and put the Finest away. 
With just seconds remaining in the half, it looked like Farley would be down by a single score, but the Phoxes wanted to insure their lead. On the first play of the drive, Mooney launched a deep pass for the game's final score, putting the Phoxes up ·20-7 and sealing the game. 
After such a high-powered first half, the two defenses came out strong after the break. Both defensive lines stuffed the opposing team's rushing attack and both sec­ondaries provided excellent pass coverage. 
Farley did make one final charge toward the goal line deep in the fourth quarter, but Finest comeback hopes van­ished when Baron's pass was intercepted on the 5-yard line. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu and Kate Donlin at kdonlin@nd.edu 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL PROGRAM lN 


PARIS, FRANCE 
ACADEMIC YEAR 2007-8 
For Social Science and History majors with a good level of French 
INFORMATION MEETING 
WEDNESDAY, NOV.EMBER 8, 2006 
5:00 PM, 204 DeBartolo 
Tuesday, November 7, 2006 
page 17

The Observer + SPORTS 
the full court, they panicked," 
Carter said. Carter scored 14

Zeller 
an elbow to the face from freshman forward Luke Harangody in practice. Irish coach Mike Brey said Kurz will return to practice Wednesday and is expected to play Friday in Notre Dame's regular sea­son opener against IPFW didn't get his fourth foul against Bellarmine until there were only four minutes left in the game. 
"I didn't foul out so I'm not worried about it," Zeller said of the foul trou­ble. "I just need line} -spelled McAlarney. 
The Irish as a whole took 30 shots from the charity stripe and made 21, including 16-for­22 in the first half. Bellarmine got to the line only 19 times, 
making 12. 
Fresh off a 

continued from page 20 
Irish machine this season. 
"He's one of those guys who doesn't start for us, but even if he doesn't start he's going to be a finisher," Brey said. "I think he's going to finish a lot of games." 
The Knights stuck with Notre Dame for the first few minutes and trailed only 12-10 with 
15:22 left in the first half. Then the Irish switched to a full court press and went on a 14-0 run over the next five minutes. 
"We said we were going to try to get up into their guards, and the first couple times with points on 5-of-11 shooting (2­of-4 from 3-point range}. The senior guard also added five rebounds, two assists and one steal. 
Notre Dame led 50-33 at halftime, but the Knights trad­ed baskets with the Irish for most of the second half. With 
3:22 left in the game, the teams had played to a 23-23 tie after the break. 
"In the second half we got a little lackadaisical because we were up so many points," Carter said. 
The Irish then went on a 12­1 run to end the game, capped by a dunk by freshman guard Joe Harden at the buzzer. 
Kurz suffered his injury on 
wearing a protective mask. to adjust to how 17-point out­
··[Hillesland is] one of 
"[Harangody's) gotten two the refs are call­burst in his first 
those guys who doesn't 
noses and given [sophomore ing the game. I collegiate expe­point guard] Kyle McAlarney did a better job start for us. but even if rience against stiches," Brey said of the phys­of that today Rockhurst,
he doesn't start he's 
ical freshmen. "I think his than last week." Harangody
going to be a finisher.., 
quota for noses might be about McAlarney was added nine twenty this season, but I told the third Irish points and nine him to get the rest of them in player in double Mike Brey rebounds the Big East." figures, scoring Irish coach against the 
Knights, a big­ger and stronger team than the Hawks. 
"This team was definitely more physical than Rockhurst, which was good for us, espe­cially our front line," the fresh­man said. 
Notre Dame's regular season opener Friday against IPFW will tip-off at 8 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
Notes: 
+ Irish guard Colin Falls scored just eight points on 2­of-3 shooting in 30 minutes. But Brey was not concerned with his senior's lack of attempts because of the way he played off the ball and how he contributed to the team's performance. 
Brey has touted Falls early this season for being one of the smartest players he's coached at Notre Dame given his grasp of the system. 
"I looked at the box score and said 'God, Falls only took three shots.' He just kind of flowed and fit in," Brey said. "Teams know about him as our returning guy, but if we can take what the D gives us and not force things, we'll like to have that." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
·. · · 'tki"C.Aj\1\1::1US Sf-rC.J1?1::?€~ Pfaza ~ 
(witlt $fuifr. 13-ngr.f~ m1fl 13-~'fWI'ftll fl1r. :J3mt) '\, 
Hours: 1813&uth'Bend ;A.wnue Monday-Saturday 10tutt'-8pm 
So..th Bend.~ .:IN 46637 Sunday 12pm--5pm (574) 271,;.4990 
Litrtited time offers for students: 10% off with a Full Service. 


EMBASSY SUITES HOTELe LAX South 
• 
SPECIAL RATES FOR NOTRE DAME • (310) 640-3600 

• 
$114 per suite per night (up to 2 guests) + 8.09% Tax 

• 
$10 per additional guest -up to 4 guests per suite • Nov 17-26, 2006 

• 
Complimentary breakfast and cocktail reception daily 

• 
Spacious two room suites in a tropical atrium setting 

• 
20 minutes from the LA Coliseum 

• 
Close to nearby beaches, shopping and restaurants 

• 
Complimentary airport shuttle 


Call l-800-EMBA5SY and mention "UNO" booking code. www.laxsouth.embassysuites.com 

Michiana Massage Therapy 
We can help with pain & stress 
$45 for your first one hour visit 
Barbara Bango CMT, AMTA Theraputic Massage Therapist ....· By appointment only SWEEDISH 
~<'\ Suite 735 
DEEP TISSUE 

·. '·-/ .\JMS Building 
REFLEXOLOGY

~~·'· •. ', . 108 N. Main, South Bend 
\. ' 574-233-9664 CARPAL TUNNEL
\.\ 
. 
SYNDROME THERAPY 




· Coffee and Conversation 
For Gay, lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, November 7 7:30-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core C®n;:l tor Ga1 anllleshiafl Srudents invites gay. lesbian. and bisexual members of the !i(}tre Dame fam1ly, the1r bends. and su;loorters to an Hltormal coffre at tne CG-Mo 
Monday was the second straight game that Zeller has finished with four fouls. Foul trouble kept him out of most of the Rockhurst game, but he 
11 points on 4­for-1 0 shooting. Freshman Tory Jackson ­nine points on 1-of-5 shooting (7-of-1 0 from the free throw 
Thursday, November 9, 2006 119 O'Shaugnessy 6:00-8:00 PM 
Thepurposeofthisforum willbeto provide students \vith information about sources of funding for undergraduate research. Six undergraduate recipients of these mvards \Vill speak about their experience of \Vriting proposals, conducting their research, and seeing their projects to cmnpletion. Food \Vi11 be provided. 
Sponsored by the Office of Undergraduate 
Studies in the College of Arts and Letters. 
~ 
UNIVE~~-TY OF_~Q:f._~E DAME 
COU.EGE OF A.RTS ANO LETTF..RS 

Coffee and retresltmems will be served 
CORE COUNCil 
FOI GAY &LESBIAJ 

STUDENTS 







page 18 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, November 7, 2006 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
) 
\ 
! \ 
..._ 
~ 
{ 
\ 
I. 
~ 
\ 
s 
' 
\ 
i ~ 

!
i 
!
( 
~ 
I 
( ( ( ( I t 
( 
( 
I 
• 

?
1n 
-
Reward yourself with a $40 Papa John's® Gift Card;· exclusively from Discover® Card 
The Discover Student Card 
• No annual fee lntro APR* • Cashback Bonus® on every purchase 
• 
Easiest online account management 

• 
$0 fraud liability guarantee 

• 
Talk to a live person in under 60 seconds 


Apply today. Call 1-800-347-2091 or visit Discovercard.com/apply4card 
Enter or mention invitation #SBDQ. 



dili8 DISCOVER. 
Better Ingredients. · CARD Detter Pizza. 
*Intra purchase APR: 0% until the last day of the 6th billing period after your account is open, then o variable rote of 16.99%, applies. Cash APR: 22.99%. Default APR: variable between 21.99% and 28.99% bm.ed on payment history. Min. fin. Chg.: $.50. Cosh trans. fee: 3%, min. $5 and no max. Rates os of Augu~t 1, 2006. """$40 PAPA JOHN'S GIFT CARD OFFER: You will receive two $20 Papa John's~ Gift Cords by moil, within 6-8 weeks of making your first purchase with your Discover Cord. If as of the dote we determine whether you met the terms of this offer, your account is dm.ed or delinquent; you will not receive the Gift Cnrd. limit two Gift Cards per Account. We ore not responsible for merchant delays in processing transactions. Subject lo Papa John's'<t Gift Co1d Terms and Conditions. Offer valid 10/l/06-1/31/07. ©2006 Discover Bonk, Member FDIC 


Tuesday, November 7, 2006 page 19
The Observer+ TODAY 
JOCULAR ALEC WHITE 

CROISSANTWORLD 

. WEU. I~EN 
Wa.coi"\E! u~.:r )o\E. S\«'MM '10U SoME; Sa>"'-So OF t-\OS"f et..'f"AA~P\...SAfl.i 
fZ...A(l.£.N £ c;s! 


JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LIWLT 




[IJ I I 
C2005 Tribune Media SeNices, Inc. All Rights ReseNed. 
ICMEN 
j 

I CI I I 
~-WOTOWKj 


I CI I I 
www.jumble.com 
YESGER 
j 

I 
Jumbles: PEONY 
Yesterday's 
Answer: 

What the tycoon received when he sold the gum factory -A "WAD" OF MONEY 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

HOW THE PRETZEL. 
MAKER INC..RE:AS£:0 
BUSINESS. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) HAVEN WIZARD BIGAMY 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 Computer woe 68 "Animal House" 1 Old-fashioned 38 Pendulum paths party attire phono 39 Hang around 69 For crying out 5 "No problema" 40 La Scala loud, e.g. 10 Smoky highlight 70 Andy's sidekick, in old radio
European peak 41 Cubs' homes 71 _·dokey
14 Islands of 43 Fuel that's Galway Bay shoveled 72 Most driver's ed students
15 More like a 44 Less desirable wallflower turkey parts 73 Database command
16 After that ... 46 Signature part: 11 The art of 
Abbr. masonry, in 47 "Como ?" DOWN Boston? 48 Saying hi to 1 LOL, spoken 
19 Pucker· some food fish, 2 Unwrinkle producing in Boston? 
3 The twist, once, 
20 Adams who 51 D.C. V.I.P. and others photographed 52 F.B.I. agent 4 Miniature map Yosemite 
53 Director Craven 

5 TV drama with 21 Electronic music 
55 Skipper's cry multiple spinoffs pioneer Robert 
57 Skipper's 6 "Um, pardon me 22 Comprehensive 
direction " 23 Bar total 
61 Calculus 7 Spanish boy 25 "My bad!" calculation 
a Like Erte's style 27 Recipe amt. 65 Eardrum-busting 9 Salem's home 
30 Most revered 66 Finishing school 10 Sundance Kid's person in the for models, in girlfriend land, in Boston? Boston? 
11 "Yuck!" 12 Detective Wolfe 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
of fiction 13 Animated bug movie of 1998 
H*.±~ 18 Extended family 24 Jezebel's idol 26 Feedbag morsel 
~~!""4 27 Country singer''s sound -=-+~~~ 28 More ticked off 29 Earn windfall profits, perhaps ~.,.._.,......,..,.._,o-f 31 Wabash Cannonball, e.g. -=+,.....,~ 32 Cake topper ..,-+-:-+:--:-4 33 "Hamlet" courtier 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILL SHORTZ 

34 Use a soapbox 50 Compaq competitor
35 Bob who sang "A Hard Rain's 54"_ Marner" so Supply-and­A-Gonna Fall" demand subj. 
55 Voice below 62 Office reminder37 Challenge from soprano
Dirty Harry 63 Assistant with a 56 End of a hunch?
42 Tuck away. 
wooden arm 

64 Midterm, e.g. 45 B &0 stop: Abbr. 
58 Prospector's 67 Sounds of 49 Soon discovery meditation 59 Falco of "The Sopranos" 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888·7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.cornlpuzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and n1ail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ethan Hawke, 35; Glenn Frey, 57; 
Sally Field. 59; Lori Singer. 48 

Happy Birthday: Don't make this a year when you spin your wheels, talk a big talk and produce little. Make things happen --don't just wait for them to fall in your lap. You have so much potential and the opportunities arc apparent, so nothing will be too difficult once you begin the process. Your numbers are 7. 13. 15,27,35,43 
ARmS (March 21-April 19): You may not like what you encounter today. but 
it will be the grand finale that will count. Be true to yourself and play by the 
rules. You will rise above the obstacles; stick to your beliefs. ** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You will surpa"s everyone's expectations including your own. You will be in tune with the people you care most about. and love will not elude you. A trip will verify that you have done what's best for you. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may be eager to spend money, but your wisest investment will be real estate. This is not the day to lend or donate. Keep your money in a safe place or invest in something sure.'*** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Partnerships will make a difference to the outcome of your day. Your concern with how you look or present yourself wi II lead to some minor but very flattering changes.*** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): The little bit of work you do today will pay off big­time in the future. By entertaining others you will put yourself in line for a new position. Serious talks will lead to a serious commitment. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Everything is changing. Keep yourself in the loop so you can take advantage of whatever opportunity opens up. Social events will bring you in contact with someone who can lead you in a prosperous direction. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Watch what you say to whom, especially at an emotional or personal leveL You may get into trouble if you name-drop or exaggerate. Stick to basics and don't pretend you know more than you do. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): More is happening than meets the eye. Be prepared to take advantage of a very interesting proposal. Social events will take a surprising tum. Consider what you always wanted to do for a living and discuss how you can make it happen. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your mind will be on your future and where you see yourself heading. Research what you must do to reach your objectives. A sudden change in your personal life may confuse you.*** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may have a hard time containing the way you feel. A chance meeting with someone from your past will be lead to an interesting option. Facing your past will allow you to move on. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be pulled in two different directions. It will be difficult for you to be logical about personal issues. Stop living a lie. Arguments will not solve your problem. A clean break is what it will take. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Getting involved in a community event or with neighbors will help you have a better understanding of what can be accomplished. An effort to make your environment better will lead to other possibilities. **** 
Birthday Baby: You are strong, steadfa<>t and secure about who you are and what you can do. You have integrity, discipline and the ability to get others to listen to you. You are a driving force. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astmadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
THE OBSERVER 
p
Tuesday, November 7, 2006 

page 20 
INTERHALL PLAYOFFS 

Headed to the House that Rock built 
By BILL BRINK and COLIN REIMER Sports Writers 
Playoff games are won in the trenches, and O'Neill dug its trenches deep. 
Both lines manhandled their Griffin opponents during the Mob's 12-0 victory over Stanford on Sunday to advance to Notre Dame Stadium for the Interhall championship game Nov. 19. 
O'Neill started strong, putting together an 11-play, 65-yard drive that resulted in a five-yard touchdown pass from quarter­back Chris Stroh to receiver Alex Fortunato. 
The scoring play was set up by a 34-yard completion from Stroh to receiver Nate Forte, who caught four balls for 94 yards, giving the Mob a first-and-goal on the five-yard line. Stroh praised the offensive line for its protection in the passing game. 
"Our offensive line is great," said Stroh, who completed 12­of-16 passes for 14 7 yards with 

~ 
I a touchdown and an intercep­
I. 
l tion. "I was confident that any 
f 
x see MOB/page 15 
~ 

GRETCHEN MOORE/The Observer Mob receiver Nate Forte runs downfield past a Griffins defensive back in O'Neill's 12-0 win over Stanford Sunday. With the victory, O'Neill advanced to the lnterhall title game against Morrissey Nov. 19. 
~ 
r 
l f 
MEN'S SOCCER 

l 
r 
I 
) 
I. No. 12 Irish ready
I 
r 
for postseason play 
Irish seeded twelfth in NCAA Tournament 
By.GREG ARBOGAST 
Spons Writer 
Twelve seems to be the number of the day for Notre Dame. 
The No. 12 Irish were given the 12th seed in the NCAA Tournament when the brackets were announced late Monday afternoon. 
By earning one of the 16 avail­able seeds to the 48 teams in the tournament, Notre Dame will receive a first round bye, and it will play the winner of the match between No. 23 Illinois-Chicago and Western Illinois at home Nov. 
15. The top four seeds in the tour­nament went to Duke (16-3-1), Wake Forest (15-3-3), SMU (17-1­
4) and Virginia (14-3-1). 
The Irish enter the NCAA Tournament with a record of 13­5-2 on the season, but they are coming off a loss in their last game -a 2-1 overtime defeat to Rutgers in the Big East quarterfi­nals. That game was played on 
U) 
c.:» 
::3
tie "' z 
Cl 

= 
U) a.. = c:s 
NBA 

Sacramento center Brad Miller will miss at least four weeks with a foot injury. 
page 14 
Oct. 28, meaning Notre Dame will have had almost three weeks without an official game by the time they take the field for its opening game of the NCAA Tournament. 
Irish coach Bobby Clark is doing everything he can to make sure his team puts the extra time to good use. 
"A break can make you rusty or it can make you sharp," Clark said. "It's up to myself and the staff to make sure that the break makes us sharp." 
Senior co-captain Greg Dalby, who was named Big East mid­fielder of the year, feels that the team has benefited from the time off as it has allowed the Irish to recuperate. 
"We took a couple of days off to decompress and just relax after the regular season," Dalby said. "It's very strenuous mentally, physically, and emotionally going through Wednesday-Saturday games almost the whole regular season, so we've just been laying low." 
Notre Dame's opponent for it.c; 
see NCAA/page 16 
NHL 

Pittsburgh rookie forward Evgeni Malkin wins October player of the month honors. 
page 13 
By JOHN TIERNEY and KATE 
DONLIN 
Sports Writers 
Sometimes, even Whirlwinds get blown away. 
Welsh Family's undefeated season was spoiled Sunday in a 21-0 loss to Pasquerilla West in the Interhall semifinals. 
Behind two interceptions from defensive back Brigid Bulfin ­one of which was returned 23 yards for a touchdown -and two touchdown passes from quarterback Cara Davies, the Purple Weasels were able to shut down the previously potent Whirlwinds. 
After a slow start by both teams in the opening 11 min­utes, Bulfin intercepted a Jenni Gargula pass on the Purple Weasel 12-yard line. The Pasquerilla West offense did not let her efforts go to waste. 
After driving to the Whirlwind 21-yard line, Davies rolled to her right on fourth-and-1 and found receiver Maureen Spring at the 17-yard line. Spring spun away from two defenders imme­
see WEASELS/page 16 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Zeller shines in preseason win 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame jumped out to a 16-point lead early then coasted to an easy 85-57 win over Bellarmine Monday night at the Joyce Center in its sec­ond exhibition contest of the season. 
"I think we did pretty well," Irish guard RusselJ Carter said. "We're moving, we're talking, and we're rebounding -that's a big difference from last year. We're just getting to the ball faster." 
With junior forward Rob Kurz out with a broken nose, sophomore forward Luke Zeller stepped up in the post with 15 points on 6-of-1 0 shooting, nine rebounds and two blocks. Zeller led a bal­anced Irish attack that had three players in double fig­ures and six players with eight or more points. 
"Zeller is just getting more and more confident," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "He's found a nice rhythm. We just have to keep working with him and keep him confident." 
Sophomore forward Zach Hillesland took Kurz's place in the starting lineup, scoring 
MLB  NFL  
Texas  hires  former  Seattle 16  
Oakland  third  base  Oakland 0  
coach Ron Washington as its new manager.  Seahawks running back Maurice Morris  
rushes for 138 yards as  
Seattle  shuts  out  
Oakland.  
page 13  page 13  


PHIL HUDELSON!fhe Observer 

Irish guard Tory Jackson drives the lane past Bellarmine guard Matt Otte during Notre Dame's 85-57 win Monday. 
seven points and tallying five assists, four rebounds, two steals and two blocks in 23 minutes. 
"He's a heck of a basketball player," Brey said of Hillesland. "He's really good with the basketball. He can 
NHL 
Atlanta 5 Boston 1 

Thrashers left wing Ilya Kovalchuk nets a hat trick to help beat the Bruins. 
page 12 
rebound, pass, make. the free throws, and get his hands on stuff." 
Brey said Hillesland, who didn't play very much last year, will be a key cog in the 
see ZELLER!page 17 
NHL 
Washin~on 4 Ottawa 
Capitals left wing Alexander Ovechkin scores twice in the win over the Senators. 
page 12 








