
Absent at ND, Greek system thrives elsewhere 
Despite deadly hazing incidents and poor pop culture image, fraternities and sororities exist on some Catholic campuses 
ly donning a set of Greek let­By KATIE PERRY 
ters among the University's
GREEK LIFE BYTHE NUMBERS 
Assistant News Editor 
grandiose buildings, colossal The bl<>od-alcohollevel of a 19-year old 
stadium, prominent monu­fraternity pledge at Chico State University 
ments and lush quads.
0.496 
Editor's Note: This is the first 
In the context of college life, 
in California in 2005. He was hospitalized 
of a three-part series examin­
the words "fraternity" and
and pbced on life support. 
ing the absence of fraternities 
"sorority" connote large-scale
The percent of fraternity members likely to 
and sororities at Notre Dame. 
single-sex social organizations 200 I Harvard School of Public Health study. 
75.1 engage in ~heavy drinking," according to a 
with a network of nationwide 
"Fat, drunk and stupid is no 
chapters. Though founded on 
The percentage of Fortune 500 executives 
way to go through life, son." 
principles of charity, tradition
with Greek ties. Of the 50 largest North 
Fraternities and sororities
85 
and membership, today's
American corporations, 43 are headed by 
have long been a staple on col­image of frats and sororities is 
former fraternity members. 
lege campuses across America 
largely dominated by togas, The total number of fraternity and sorority 
-even before becoming a cult kegs and hazing.
20,000 
chapters in the Greek letter system. 
phenomenon with the release 
Pop culture portrayals in 
of "Animal House" in 1978 ­
films like "Animal House" and The total number of undergraduate Students 
but never at Notre Dame. 
"Old School" might have dirt­
500,000 in the United States and Canada who are 
Indeed, a visitor w~mld be 
ied the reputation of the Greek Photo courtesy of albion.edu 
affiliated with a fraternity or sorority. 
hard-pressed to find a An Alpha Tau Omega fraternity house graces the ------------------__.Victorian-style mansion proud-see GREEK/page 4 Albion College campus in Michigan. 


By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Senior Jessie Maciejewski opened her mail Monday to dis­cover her post-graduation plans have been sealed -she will have a teaching job for two years after graduation and, at the end of that period, a mas­ter's degree in education. 
Maciejewski is one of 87 peo­ple who have been accepted into the competitive Alliance for Catholic Education program. This year 380 people applied ­four people for each spot. 
One-third of those accepted are Notre Dame students and their letters, mailed March 15, were waiting for them in their 
Large pool enables ACE to be selective 
Notre Dame students make up one-third of the 87-applicants accepted to program 
mailboxes when they returned from spring break. The remain­der comes from other universi­ties. Staud expects to fill three more spots before the close of the acceptance process. 
Through ACE, college gradu­ates earn a tuition-free master of education degree and spend two years teaching at under­privileged Catholic schools throughout the country. Staud makes selections for ACE with a specific placement in mind for every applicant accepted. 
"When we accept people at ACE, they know exactly where they're going, what they'll be teaching, what grade level, so that they can make a complete-
see ACE/page 6 

Survey examines relationship obstacles 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
With March Madness betting in full swing, constant streams of instant messages and an ever-expanding Facebook uni­verse -high school students now induded -it's undeniable Notre Dame students face a great deal of distraction from their classes, work and even traditional social lives. 
And now, the University is looking into it. 
This week, the University Cyber Vice and Gambling task forces sent 1,000 students a "Healthy Relationships Survey" in order to examine how certain behaviors, such as instant mes­saging and viewing pornogra­phy, could negatively affect interaction among Notre Dame undergraduates. 
Survey recipients -chosen at random, according to assistant director of the Office of Institutional Research Mark Gunty -were asked to go through six pages of questions that mainly focus on the stu­dent's observations on or per­sonal experiences with activities like instant messaging, brows­ing Facebook and the Internet, viewing on-line and print pornography, playing "graphi­cally violent" video games and various forms of gambling. 
A final write-in section is available for the student to detail his or her opinion on the positive and negative effects the listed activities can have on a person's ability to form healthy relationships. Responses are kept anonymous, according to the survey's introduction. 
see SURVEY/page 8 


Facility to help abuse victi111s 
University will play major role in Center 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
Sainr Mary's Editor 
Continuing the tradition of giving back to the greater South Bend community, Notre Dame students may soon have additional volunteer opportu­nities to help those in need at the proposed Family Justice Center of Saint Joseph County. 
Approximately 75 communi­ty members gathered Tuesday night in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library to dis­cuss the proposed center, which would be located in the First Source Bank Building on the corner of Main Street and Jefferson Street in South Bend. 
Casey Gwinn, the director of the Technical Assistance Project of the President's Family Justice Center Initiative, was the evening's keynote speaker and he stressed the necessity of a cen­ter such as this one in the South Bend community. 
"These centers fulfill a com­mon vision ... it is not just for kids, not just adults, but a cen­ter where the whole family can come to combat criminal jus­tice and receive the help they need," Gwinn said. 
Gwinn is the founder of the San Diego Family Justice Center, which is one of the most successful domestic vio­lence support centers in the country and serves as a model for the creation of similar pro­grams throughout the nation. 
see CENTER/page8 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, March 22, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Yotm.gsto-wn, Ohio 
Long before Jim Trnssel became notorious amongst Notre Dame fans for leading the Bueknyes to a Fiesta Bowl victory. or even beforn he won the 2002 National Championship for Tlw Ohio State University, he Kelly Meehan was a hometown hnro for a dty 
Saint Mary's 
nnstled on the 
Editor
border of Ohio 
and 
Pennsylvania. This is a eity that was 
put on tim map after he led the 
Penguins to live national champi­
onships ... or was this eity already on 
thn map for other reasons? 
If you travel 300 miles east on 
H0/90 you will arrive in Youngstown, 
Ohio. A place nationally known to 
sonw as "Mob-town U.S.A." or the 
Steel City; Youngstown is a very spe­
cial place securely located between 
tllP two more well-known cities of 
Clevnland and Pittsburgh. Its con­
venient location allows residents an 
easy shopping or sporting escape to 
either of these eities. 
But is an escape rnally necessary? 
Upon arrival in Youngstown, you will 
immediately notice its striking skyline 
of rusted out steel mills from its more 
eeonomically booming days of yester­
day. Chances am. however. you know 
someone from Youngstown. own 
something from Youngstown, or the 
dty has in someway touched your 
life. 
The name DeBartolo obviously rings a bell or two. but did you know this family of donors hails from the gnmt stnnl eity? Or do you remember that kooky Congressman Jim Traflieant? The fashion police would have arrestml him for his animal like faux hair if the government hadn't gotten to him first, and although he was expelled from Congress and went to jail for taking government bribes, he was my state representative. 

Natives have a special place in their heart for two penguins named Pete and Patty. Mention these two names and everyone knows who you are talking about, the infamously well­known Youngstown State University mascots. Yes, the penguin proves to be an intimidating choiee for a mas­cot. Perhaps it was chosen in light of our frigid winters or because it ever so slightly edged out the more popu­lar Ohio Stat1~ Buckeye in fierceness. 
Youngstown's large Italian popula­tion guarantees that citizens will never go hungry. With a vast array of authentic restaurants. going out to eat bncomes more of a hobby than a nwans of filling your stomach. The eity is most well known tilr its one of a kind wndding soup. You may think that you have consumed this spinach and dough ball laden soup, however I promise that if it was not prepared in tho Youngstown vieinity it was a mere imitation. 
Shopping cart? I don't think so. In Youngstown these plastic grocery­holding crates on wheels arc simply called a buggy. This is not in refer­ence to a horse and buggy, nor is it implying a sighting of the city's near­by Amish neighbors. Youngstown­ians always refer to them as buggies, always. My friends think it is weird, others lind it funny, but I will never ehangn my ways, it is always a buggy. 
Youngstown may not be a prime destination, but hey it is the title and subject of a Bruce Springsteen song (which I personally lind very impres­sive). So maybe Youngstown is no Nnw York City, Chicago or even Cleveland. but that does not mean it is not a special place. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU THINK NOTRE DAME NEEDS A GREEK SYSTEM, WHY OR WHY NOT? 







Patrick Lopez  Andrew Knutson  Jorge Castro  Jim Harig  Victor Saenz  Eileen Zander  
freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  
St. Ed's  Stanford  St. Ed's  Morrissey  Knott  Lewis  
"Yes, to further  "No, because it  "Yeah, because  "No, because all  "No, because  "Yes, because I  
tradition. "  goes against  it's somewhere  the dorms are  the dorms  think it would  
our Catholic  we could relax  pretty close to  provide that  be afun  
identity."  with brothers. "  Greek life."  environment  addition to  
and that's what  campus. "  
sets ND apart. "  


LAURIE HUNT !The Observer 
Student participate in the Freshman Class Council's "Rock, Paper, Scissors" tournament Tuesday in the LaFortune ballroom. All the proceeds from the event will go to Father Thomas Streit's fund for Haiti. 
OFFBEAT 
Cross-dressing robber given away by nylons 
MONTEREY, Calif. -A man's pantyhose led to his arrest, authorities said. An unshaven man wearing a black evening gown, fishnet stockings, calf-high boots and a black wig robbed a USA Gas station Monday morning, authorities alleged. 
The armed man stuffed $290 in cash into an ensem­ble-matching black purse. 
''I've been with the depart­ment for 22 years, and this is the first time I've heard of this happening anywhere here," police Lt. Phil Penko said. 
About 35 minutes after the robbery. police Officer Chad Ventimiglia spotted a black Saab with fishnet pantyhose hanging from the front dri­ver's side door, dragging on the ground, investigators said. 
Student volunteers find stash In New Orleans home 
NEW ORLEANS-Trista Wright was spending her spring break cleaning out hurricane-damaged homes when she discovered some unusual papers among the moldy plaster board and debris. 
"I started raking it out of the air conditioner vent. I thought it was garbage and I was going to shovel it up, but I bent down to pick it up, and it was a stack of $100 bills, and then more and more kept coming," the 19­year-old said Tuesday on CNN. 

By an unofticial count, it was more than $30,000. 
Wright and fellow students notified the organizers of their church mission, who told the St. Bernard Parish Sheriffs Office. 
The woman who owned the house, who has asked that she not be identified, was as shocked as Wright. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY a: 
LLI 
::::1: 
!;;c 
LLI 

3: 
..... 
II( 
(,) 0 




_. HIGH 40 HIGH 36 HIGH 40 LOW 26 LOW 24 LOW 29 

HIGH LOW 
IN BRIEF 
Haitian writer and musician Jean-Mare Pasquet will dis­. cuss his latest novel, "Libre toujours" in a lecture titled "Shamanic Poetry: Magical Realism, Voodoo, and Creole Literature in Haiti" today at 
3:30 p.m. in C-1 03 Hesburgh Center. 
A conference titled "The Liturgy of the Hours: Public Prayer of the Church as Foundation for Christian Spirituality" will take place from 2 4:30 p.m. Wednesday in rooms 100-104 of McKenna Hall. 
The film "The Hocky Hoad to Dublin," which documents daily life in Ireland, will be shown at 7 p.m. Thursday in room 129 DeBartolo Hall. A discussion, led by English professor Luke Gibbons will follow. 
"Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire" will be shown Thursday at 10 p.m. in room 101 DeBartolo Hall. 
The Chicago-based country band, Strait Southern, will perform at Legends Friday at 10 p.m. Admission is free with a ND, SMC or I-ICC stu­dent ID. 
The Notre Dame Accountancy Department will host a Recruiting Workshop for faculty from 3 ­4:30p.m. Thursday in room 339 of the Mendoza College of Business. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

42 27 

HIGH LOW 

-------------------------, 
Wednesday, March 22, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

McCafferty fanilly tnetnbers organize first Father Mike Run 
Event commemorates former law school professor, University preszdential candidate Father Michael Dillon McCafferty 
By RYAN SYDLIK News Writer 
Notre Dame students, facul­ty and administrators will lace up their running shoes Saturday to honor the memo­ry and contributions of Father Michael Dillon McCafferty in the first-ever Father Mike 
Hun. 
The run will be held in con­junction with the Fr. Mike Show on Friday, a sketch comedy and talent show pro­
duced by Notre Dame Law School students. 
McCafferty was serving on the law school faculty when he died at the age of 40 in 1987 of lymphatic cancer. He was a 'triple Domer' having received a bachelor's degree in government and interna­tional studies in 1969, a juris doctor in 1973 and a master's degree in theology in 1974 from the University. He was ordained a priest in 1974, and he was appointed assis­tant dean of the law school in 
1979 after joining the law school faculty in 1978. He was also responsible for the Sunday evening Law School Liturgies, and he was even a finalist to succeed University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh as University President before his death. 
The run is a three-mile race that snakes through campus, beginning and ending at Notre Dame Stadium. Registration for the event can be done online by e-mailing bveith@nd.edu or by showing up at the stadium at 9 a.m. Saturday morning. 

The Father Mike Run was started by members of his own family, off-campus junior Brian Veith," Welsh Family sophomore Tricia Cronin and Farley freshman Courtney Dorger. Veith is McCafferty's nephew while Cronin and Dorger are his nieces. Six other of McCafferty's 22 nieces and nephews are Notre Dame graduates. 
Veith said many of their family members will partici­pate. 


"We felt we should get something together to cele­brate all of [McCafferty's] gifts," Veith said. 
Veith said he hoped at least 200 people will show up. 
"We realize that it might start small," Veith said. "Hopefully, we get the snow­ball rolling and maybe it will just get bigger." 
Veith, Dorger, and Cronin also expressed that they intend for the run to become 
a yearly event. 
"It is nice to have a poten­tial tradition to remember him," Veith said. 
Because most current stu­dents are not familiar with McCafferty, Dorger viewed the event as a way to intro­duce him to a new generation of students. 
"I think it's nice that some­one like that is still going to be recognized," she said. 
Veith, Dorger, and Cronin were all very young when their uncle died and they see the run as a way to become eloser to him 
"We never actually got to know him personally," Cronin said. 
Univesity administrators, including University President Father John Jenkins. Senior Executive Assistant and coun­selor to the President father Jim McDonald and Law School Dean Patricia O'Hara, all lent their support in organizing the event, Veith said. 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 

Perry to be 'knighted' 
Special to The Observer 
Catherine Perry, associate professor of Romance lan­guages and literatures at Notre Dame, will be decorated with the insignia of the Ordre des Palmes Academiques at a pres­entation ceremony at 1 p.m. Wednesday at the Morris Inn. 
Richard Barbeyron, French consul general from Chicago, will conduct the ceremony. 
Perry was appointed a Chevalier ("knight") in the Ordre des Palmes Academiques earlier this year by the French Ministry of National Education. 
Created in 1808 by Napoleon I, the Palmes Academiques originally was designed to honor outstanding members of the faculty of the University of Paris. Membership later was expanded to include people beyond the French university system, including other nation­als and French scholars living outside the country whose work promotes French lan­guage, culture and educational activities. 
Perry, who specializes in French literature of the 19th and early 20th centuries, also serves as undergraduate advi­sor for the Program in French and Francophone Studies at Notre Dame. She is a faculty fellow in the Nanovic Institute for European Studies and in the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 



Speedtalk__
·_ 

Unlimited SpeedTalk Minutes 
• 
1000 Anytime Minutes 

• 
$49.95 per month 

• 
Buy 1 and get up to 3 LG UX4750 phones FREE 


(w.1h 2year corJracts and rna~\ 10 rebates ~ offer good 
through 3129f06) 

~ US.Cellular 
-~,. •)!>~ -; ~-..... · -~•:'<-':'•::'·*:"',~'..¢~~;;~-#S.ii~,,,."'S-,.-t~\t:..,.~!i;<.~.""-~:--.~>-·c!?,~.r··~~-:-*'-"If~·· z_,"-;\.~ ~--~ -~-: -_:.-~.:-:-:..~f:"~.~~-~-:::-~·~.,~~~!-.··t:H~";;<.,..::···""~ ,.. ... ~ {..:, ~. ~ ~ -:-~ ,.. .. ~~ _, .... ,~ ._ , --~ '."-,..---~ ·f·~-<: ~"'-~ ~--~.,_,_ -c f~ ~-~ .l~s-~~!"-"""'\ ~·.,"..1(' ~.... ~ ,_-r-4·~-, ¥o:f-~3 ~., ,-,. · -~ :} 'J.~ _·)i:l -· -~ ,.--: :.·~; :01=1 -Jr;• U;~ ::• r-...~ ,_.,1-· -~.;~ ~ ...."")., £;-~ :· -.·?-~=­
·;~~:.~i~·x=.~~'ij:ri:~~:::·~~ -.r:-f~~~·:::~~·~~~f-~~?.t~=~:~.~.:~~~r;,~~it::L;·j,~~T~:~~;:~l:;~;t_:,_--t~~~t:~~~:;*?~-~~t~.r:~~,rc~:;;.:· ~ 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 22, 2006 
The foreign service fraternity turned to snobbery, cliquish­The decision at Santa Clara universities," Arx said in the Delta Phi Epsilon, the business ness, conformity, intolerance followed a five-month study of 1utide. "There are relatively


Greek 
continued from page 1 
system in recent years -but Belushi and Blun are not entire­ly to blame. lnddnnts like the February 2005 hazing tragedy at Chico State University, in which a 21-year-old student died while pledging for the Chi Tau fraternity, has led to the diminished integrity of fraterni­ties and sororities throughout the years. 
Although paddles and pari­ntals may not go hand-in-hand under tlw Golden Dome, frater­nities and sororities are alive and well at several comparable institutions of higher learning. Nonexistent at Notre Dame, organizations like Alpha Delta Phi and Dnlta Delta fraternity Delta Sigma Pi and the community service fraterni­ty Alpha Phi Omega are all widely popular on campus, in addition to African American, Latino, Christian and other spe­cialized fraternities and sorori­ties. Since the organizations have no official affiliation with college, they are entirely fund­ed by dues and alumni dona­tions. 
"Our relationship with the university is a gray area," Delta Phi Epsilon president Hobert Dunphy told The Hoya, which is Georg.eto wn 's student-run newspaper. 
A Feb. 25, 2005 column in The Hoya by theology profes­sor Father Christopher Steck slammed Delta Phi Epsilon and other Greek organizations, 

Delta exist -if asserting they
"It was almost like 
not thrive -at have no plaee at
the fraternities 
a Jesuit institu­universitins. were plagued by tion like At Villanova Georgetown. 
other Catholie 

some innate 
Univnrsity, a Steck singled out
gravitational
Catholic college Delta Phi Epsilon 
located outside of' pull -drawing beeause it had recently attempt­
Philadelphia, their members 
approximately ed to become an
away from high
one third of all official social fra­female students ideals towards ternity at the are members of' social baseness. , University. 
one of the school's Steck described nine sororities. his own experi­The college Father enees with frater­ranked 50th in Christopher Steck nities and sorori­the 2006 U.S. theology professor ties as an under­News & World Georgetown University graduate at 
Heport list of "Most Studnnts in Sororities." Fraternities are also prnvalent -though somewhat lnss popu­lar-with 12 percent of the male population artiliated with orw of I 0 fraternities. 
Seton llall University, St. .John's University, St. Joseph's University of Pennsylvania. I>el'aul University and Crnighton University am other Catholic rollngns with offkially­reeo).{nized Gre1~k systems. 
A Greek critique 
c;eorgntown Univnrsity has refused to recognize fratPrnities and sororities sincn the 1960s, but this has not stopped such organizations from flourishing tlwre. A Sept. 19. 2000 article in The lloya said though unofli­eial, "loeal chaptnrs of nation­wide and international fraterni­tins still draw hundreds of Georgetown students." 
Louisiana  State  
University  to  
argue  why  

"Georgetown students don't need tho Greeks." Adolescent sexuality, racial exclusions, elit­ism and wild partying exempli­fied "tho worst stereotypes" of the Greek system at LSU, he said. 
"Of eoursc, many of these same groups pulled themselves out of bed on the weekends to eugagn in community snrviee," Steck .said in the column. "That was always the enigma for me: so much human dysfunctionali­ty bound together with genuine humanitarian concern." 
Steck said he knew of stu­dents who were "genuinely wonderful people on their own," but underwent a negative "transformation" when placed in the context of a Greek social arrangement. Once members of fraternities and sororities, Steek said these students and the desire to "escape life" through aleohol and sex. 
"It was almost like the frater­nities were plagued by some innate gravitational pull ­drawing their members away from high ideals towards social baseness," he said. 
Though many social fraterni­ties and sororities engage in altruistic endeavors and service projects -whieh do correlate with Jesuit ideals -there are other 
aspects of Greek 

"It wasn't just the
organizations president Paul which are not Jesuits -it was Locatelli said the aligned with sueh college had a dis­
the Catholic 
standards, Steck tinct obligation to
Church that
said. support priorities 
"The Jesuit ideal opposed to benefit the of cura personalis, fraternities at greatest number or care for the of students,"
Catholic 
person, refers to encourage friend­
universities. ,,
two ideas: educat­ships and strate­ing the whole per­gically use finite son in body, mind resources to meet
Father Jeffrey von Arx 
and spirit, and its goals. Locatelli
President
educating each and other com­person in his or Santa Clara University mittee members 
the university's Greek organiza­tions by a committee with facul­ty, staff and student representa­tion. The task of the group was "to determine whether the presence of fraternities and sororities contributes positively to building a vital community of scholars whose members col­laborate as partners in learning and scholarship to provide an integrated educational experi­
. ence." In an official statement, SCU 
her unique individ­uality," he said in the eolumn. "Can the kind of social cohesion that fraternities require ... really allow the indi­vidual person, as an individual, to flourish'?" 
Absent and abolished 
On March 22, 2001, Santa Clara University announeed a two-year plan to eompletely "phase out" its entire Greek system by June 2003 -a deci­sion that affected fewer than 10 percent of the student popula­tion but mirrored a growing trend of increased administra­tive scrutiny of fraternities and sororities on college eampuses nationwide. 
According to a 2000 study in The Chronicle of Iligher Edueation, fraternity and soror­ity membership had decreased by approximately 30 pereent since 1990. 
decided fraterni­
ties and sororities were a hindrance to the overar­ching aims of Santa Clara, and thus its Greek system was ofli­cially abolished. 
In a Feb. 2, 2006 article in The Fairfield Mirror, University President Father Jeffrey von Arx explained Fairfield University's disaffiliation with Greek organizations as a conse­quence of Homan Catholie tra­dition. 
Jesuit qualms about fraterni­ties may stem from the Masonic associations of fraternities ­the Masons were disliked by the early Church for being Protestant seeret societies ­and subsequent secret societies in the 19th and 20th centuries were also scornnd upon in Home, he said. 
"It wasn't just the Jesuits-it was the Catholic Chureh that opposed fraternities at Catholic 
few Catholic colleges that have 
them." 
Boston College is another Jesuit university that refuses to reeognize fraternities and sororities. According to artielcs in the student newspapers at both BC and Fairfinld, under­graduates share a common misunderstanding about why the policy against Greek sys­tems is in plaee at their respec­tive schools. 
"It is a misconception that BC poliey on fraternities and soror­ities is due to a strict rule that the Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities (AJCU) has against Greek organizations," said a June 1, 2004 article in BC's student newspaper, The Heights. 
The AJCU mission statement maintains that "each institution is separately ehartered by the state and is legally autonomous under its own board of trustees" -and the same is true for all Catholic institutions of higher learning. 
The "Land 0' Lakes" state­ment reached in 1967 by an assembly of Catholie university leadership said colleges aligned with the Church require "a true autonomy and academic free­dom in the face of authority of whatever kind. lay or clerical, external or the academie com­munity itself." The statement emphasized the need for Catholic· charaeter at the uni­versities, but left individual administrations to come to their own independent deeisions. 
The College of the I loly Cross, Fordham University and Notre Dame JOin Georgetown, Fairfield University and Boston College as Catholic schools that do not recognize fraternities and sororities as offieial and afliliated institutional organiza­tions. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 


THE NANOVIC INSTITUTE FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES 
CONGRATULATIONS! 
Professor Catherine Perry Nanovic Fellow and Associate Professor, Romance Languages & Literatures 


On March 22, Professor Perry will be awarded the insignia of Chevalier (knight) in the Order of the Palmes academiques for her contribution to the development of French Culture and education in the world. 
www.nd.eduf,..,nanovic 

WE WANT YOUR INPUT! 


~-.... 

~ LlbQUAL 
SPRING 2006 LIBRARY SURVEY 
In Mar<.;h. the Unlversity Libraries of Notre DUJnc, along with n1any other 
ut:adcmk and research libraries. will be participating in LibQUAL+, a 
natiunuJ web-base(] survey projt!ct designed to assess library service quality. 
UNIVE.RSITY o.-NOTRE DAME PARTICIPATION 
On Tuesday, March 21. an invitation to participate in the survey will be sent to nil undergraduate students, graduate students, and faculty. On 
Monday~ Man..·h 27, these .!iame students and faculty will receive an e-mail 
message, with tht! survey URI... embedded. asking them to complete the survey. Participant!'~. should be able to complete the survey in about 15 
rninutc~•. 

WHY SHOULU I ANSWER TilE SliRVI<;Y"! 
The survey contains questions that will help the University Libraries evaluate the effectiveness of library services in meeting the needs of students and fa~.o·ulty and tu identify opportunities fur improving services. Also. as an incentive to purticipah!. students and fal:ulty will be given the option to sign up to win une uf six video 1-pods. 
WIIAT 1)0 I NEEil TO KNOW TO ANSWER THE SURVEY? 
No spcdnl knowledge is required to cornplete the survey. However. as part of completing the survey. participants will provide data about thernselves such JHi graduate nr undergraduate. faculty rank. tnain disc_ipline nf study or teachiug. etc. 
NEED ADDITIONAL INFORMATION? 
For more information about LibQUAL+, see the LibQUAL+ home page at ht.thttp:i/w~y~y,!il:>J:•trY.,IJ~f.~,<.l_tt/li..hWJ.>tV or contact Sherri Jones (631-4034), University of Notre Dame's liaison for the LibQUAL+ project. 
University Libraries of Notre Dame 




ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, March 22, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iran agrees to talk with U.S. on Iraq 
TEHRAN, Iran -Supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said Tuesday that he approves of talks between U.S. and Iranian officials on Iraq, but warned that the United States must not try to "bully" Iran. 
It was the first confirmation that Khamenei, who holds final say on all state matters in Iran, is in favor of the talks. 
His comments came hours after President Bush spoke in favor of such a meeting, saying American officials would show Iran "what's right or wrong in their activities inside oflraq." 
Khamenei said that "ifthe Iranian officials can make the U.S. understand some issues about Iraq, there is no problem with the negotiations." 
"But ifthe talks mean opening a venue for bul­lying and imposition by the deceitful party [the Americans], then it will be forbidden," he said in a speech in the northeastern city of Mashhad, aired on state television. 
Protesters defy Belarus authorities 
MINSK, Belarus -Several hundred defiant demonstrators who have camped out in a cen­tral square endured freezing temperatures for a third day Tuesday to protest the re-election of authoritarian Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko. 
Opposition leader Alexander Milinkevich, who has denounced the election that gave Lukashenko a new live-year term as a fraud and called for a new vote, urged demonstrators to keep up daily protests and called for a major show of strength Saturday. 
"Come here every day to speak of freedom," Milinkevich said, speaking in the glow from TV cameras after thelighting on Oktyabrskaya Square was shut off, plunging protesters into darkness and adding to concerns of a crack­down by seeurity forees. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Dog handler guilty on six counts 
FORT MEADE, Md. -An Army dog han­dler at Abu Ghraib was convicted Tuesday of tormenting prisoners with his snarling ani­mal and competing with a comrade to make the Iraqis soil themselves. 
Sgt. Michael J. Smith, 24, .of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., was found guilty at a court­martial of six of 13 counts. The judge later dismissed one of those six counts, saying it duplicated another. 
A senteneing hearing began in the after­noon, and will conelude Wednesday. The five charges earried up to 8 1/2 years behind bars. 
Prosecutors said Smith let his unmuzzled black Belgian shepherd bark and lunge at several prisoners for his own amusement. 
Missing children case concludes 
NEW OHLEANS-The largest child-recov­ery effort in U.S. history is eomplete after more than six months, with 5,192 ehildren missing after hurricanes Katrina and Rita reunited with family members, officials said Tuesday. 
The National Center for Missing & Exploited Children worked with the FBI, Federal Emergency Management Agency, 
U.S. Postal Serviee, Red Cross and other agencies to find the thousands of children separated from their parents or guardians when Hurricane Katrina hit Aug. 29 and Hurricane Hita hit just a few weeks later. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Three hurt in detonator accident 
CRANE, Ind. -Several hundred detonators exploded prematurely at Crane Naval Surface Warfare Center Tuesday, injuring three civil­ian workers who were unpacking them. 
The injuries were not life-threatening, but two of the workers were taken to Bloomington Hospital for treatment of cuts and burns. The other suffered puncture wounds to the face and hands and first­degree facial burns and was treated at Crane's medieal dinic. 

Troops to stay in Iraq for years 
President Bush expects American involvement in Iraq to continue indefinitely 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON­President Bush said Tuesday that American forces will remain in Iraq for years and it will be up to a.future president to decide when to bring them all home. But defying critics and plunging polls, he deelared, ''I'm optimistic we'll succeed. If not, I'd pull our troops out." 
The president rejected ealls for the resignation of Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, ehief arehitect of wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. "Listen, every war plan looks good on paper until you meet the enemy," Bush said, acknowledging mistakes as the United States was foreed to switch tactics and change a reconstruction strategy that offered targets for insurgents. 
He also rejected asser­tions by Iraq's former inter­im prime minister that the country had fallen into eivil war amid sectarian violence that has left more than 1 ,000 Iraqis dead since the bombing last month of a Shiite Muslim shrine. 
"This is a moment the Iraqis had a chance to fall apart and they didn't," Bush said, crediting religious and political leaders with restraint. 
The president spoke for approach even if they dis­on foree levels based upon that "it will be possible to nearly an hour at a White agree with his decisions. what the eommanders on consider" additional reduc­House news conference, "I understand war ereates the ground say." tions as the political process part of a new offensive to concerns," the president White House officials wor­moves forward and as Iraqi ease Americans' unhappi­said. "Nobody likes war. It ried Bush's remarks would security forces gain experi­ness with the war and fel­creates a sense of uncer­be read as saying there ence. No timetable has been low Republieans' anxiety tainty in the country." would not be significant set for deciding on addition­about fall elections. He Bush has adamantly troop reductions during his al cuts. faeed skeptieal questions refused to s.et a deadline for presidency. They pointed to More than 2,300 about Iraq during an the withdrawal of U.S. comments Sunday by Gen. American troops have died appearance Monday in forces from Iraq. Asked if George W Casey, command­in Iraq. At home, nearly Cleveland, and plans anoth­there would come a day er of U.S. forces in Iraq, four of five people, induct­er address soon on Iraq. when there would be no who said he expeeted a sub­ing 70 percent of 
Publie support for the war more U.S. forces in Iraq, stantial troop reduction Republicans, believe civil and for Bush himself has Bush said, "That, of course, "eertainly over the course of war will break out in Iraq, fallen in reeent months, is an objeetive. And that will 2006 and into 2007." according to a reeent AP­jeopardizing the political be decided by future presi­The Pentagon announced Ipsos poll. capital he claimed from his dents and future govern­last December that U.S. "I am confident -I 2004 re-election victory. ments oflraq." force levels would be believe, I'm optimistic we'll ''I'd say I'm spending that Pressed on whether that reduced from the baseline succeed," the president capital on the war," Bush meant a eomplete with­figure of about 138,000 to said. "If not, I'd pull our said. drawal would not happen about 131,000 by the end of troops out. lfl didn't believe 
The White House believes during his presidency, Bush March. The total currently we had a plan for victory I that people appreciate said, "I can only tell you is 133,000. In late February wouldn't leave our people in Bush's plainspoken that I will make decisions the Pentagon told Congress harm's way." 

IRAQ 
100 gunmen storm Iraqi jail, kill20 
! 
Associated Press  -even though U.S. and Iraqi military officials said last year that the area was  15 other inmates were a mix of sus­peeted insurgents and common crimi­ 
BAGHDAD-About 100 masked  no longer an insurgent stronghold.  nals.  
gunmen stormed a prison near the  The insurgency's strength, spiraling  In an Internet posting Tuesday night,  
Iranian border Tuesday, cutting phone  seetarian violence and the stalemate  the military wing of the Mujaheddin  
wires, freeing all the inmates and leav­ over forming a government in Iraq  Shura Council, a militant Sunni Muslim  
ing behind a scene of devastation and  have led politicians and foreign policy  insurgent group, purportedly elaimed it  
carnage-20 dead policemen, burned­ experts to say Iraq is on the brink or  carried out the operation. The posting  
out cars and a smoldering jailhouse.  perhaps in the midst of civil war.  said the group killed "40 policemen,  
At least 10 attaekers were killed in  In all, 33 prisoners were freed,  liberated 33 prisoners and captured  
the dawn assault on the Muqdadiyah  including 18 insurgents who were  weapons."  
lockup on the eastern fringe of the  detained Sunday during raids by secu­ The claim was posted on the iraqi  
Sunni Triangle, police said. The raid  rity forces in the nearby villages of  News Web site. Neither the higher  
showed the mostly Sunni militants can  Sansal and Arab, poliee said. It was the  casualty toll among polieemen nor the  
still assemble a large force, capable of  capture of those insurgents that appar­ captured weapons could not be inde­ I  
operating in the region virtually at will  ently prompted Tuesday's attack. The  pendently verified.  I  
~  


___j 
Wednesday, March 22, 2006 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
ACE 
continued from page 1 
ly informed dneision," Staud said. 
Assistant Director of ACE Colleen Garvey said an appli­cant's talents and skills are strongly considered in the appli­cation proeess. 
"Let's say Nashville calls us up and says. 'I need a math teacher, who will also coach basketball and help out with an after-school Spanish progmm,"' Garvey said. "So then we go through every singln applicant and whoever best fits that mateh is who we select." 
Jessica Maciejewski will be teaching at a Catholie school in 


CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 



STUDENTS 
The former "Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs" is expanding and seeking new 
undergraduate student members, regardless of sexual orientation. The newly structured council, the 
Core Council for Gay and lesbian Students 
is now accepting applications. 
Applications are available in the Office of Student Affairs (316 Main Building) 
or on the Core Council web site 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 
Applications are due by 5:00p.m. on Tuesday, 
March 28, 2006, and can be submitted to the 
Office of Student Affairs. 
Please vi$it our web site for more information. 

2005-2006 Law&... an interdisciplinary colloquium series presents 
Intellectual Property and the University-Related Startup Company 
Presenter: PeterKogge Department of Computer Science & Engineering 
Comn1entator: Joseph P. Bauer The La'" School 
\Vednesday., I\tarch 22 4:00p.m. [,a\\' School Courtroom 

Hio Grande City, "Ultimately, we are Bacsik, who 
Texas next year. looking for people teaches second She believes her grade at Saint 
... who are

placement is James School in 
based on her passionate about Savannah, Ga., experience study­serving through said the living sit­ing abroad in uation gives him a
teaching, who want

Chile, her ability chance to share 
to change the 

to speak Spanish his initial teaching and her interest world one child at experiences with in working with others who face
a time." 

the Latino com­similar chal­munity. lenges. 
In addition to John Staud "living in a com­possessing certain director munity of teachers skill sets, Staud Alliance for Catholic provides a unique 
considers it neces­sense of support,"
Education 
sary for ACE· tnaehers to have a desire to be teachers in a Catholic school setting. 
"Ultimately, we are looking lor people ... who are passionate about serving through teaching, who want t.o change the world one child at a time," Staud said. 
Maeiejewski, who has spent many years in Catholic school and whose mother is a Catholic sehool tnadwr, wanted to begin her teaching experience in a Catholie sehool. 
"It's moru of' a snrvice aspect I think -I want to give back because I know a lot of the Catholie schools arn understalli1d right now," Maciejewski said. 
Notre Damn graduate Jim Kilroy is currently working as an ACE tnaehnr. I le too was eager to take advantage of' the opportuni­ty to serve as a teacher in a Catholic school af'ttJr a lifetime of ( :atholic education. 

"ACE was more attractive than Teach f()r Ameriea, for example, because its mission serves Catholic schools, which I had attnndnd all my life," Kilroy said. "You can say that I felt compelled to give back to the system which had the greatest in!luencc on my life outside of my parents." 
Students accepted this year will begin eight weeks of' educa­tion classes at Notre Dame on June 2. During this time, they will also student-teach at schools in the South Bend area. When the school year begins in August. the new ACE teachers will go to their respective locations and teach for one year, while they continue to take on-line courses. The following summer, students take additional dasses at Notre Dame and then return for a sec­ond year of teaching. 
During the school year, ACE tP.achers live together in houses of I'our to seven people. 
Notre Dame 

graduate John 
Bacsik said. "Every 
day, you know that you have people who arc ready and willing to listen to your sto­ries a.?d have great advice to share. 
Staud said that many people eoming into the program are not sure whether or not they want to make teaching their career. The experience or teaching. plus a master's of' education degree can be a benefit in most fields, Staud said, but he estimates about 60 percent of ACE teachers stay in the education field. 
Maciejewski bPlieves the ACE program will be a good stepping­stone to the opportunities she will pursue when the two-year program ends. 
"I definitely want to teach for a while," Maciejewski said. "But I can definitely see myself going on a different career path for a while and then maybe coming back to it and ... maybe getting another degree and teaching at the college level or something like that." 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


RlJSSELL WORKING 
reads from 


Winner of Notre Dame Press's 2006 Sullivan Award in Fiction 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Wednesday, March 22, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
11,228.90 -45.63

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 947 153 2,326 1,795,578.840 


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -0.87 -0.12 13.60 
NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ) -1.0 I -0.42 41.1 3 
INTEL CP (INTC) +1.22 +0.24 19.86 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -1.66 -0.08 4.75 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.50 -0.14 27.75 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +1.31 +0.61 47.17 13-WEEK BILL +0.82 +0.37 45.67 30-YEAR BOND +0.87 +0.41 47.41 5-YEAR NOTE + 1.74 +0.80 46.87 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.38  62.34  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -2.90  553.20  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.38  84.15  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  117.2750  
EURO  0.8270  
POUND  0.5724  
CANADIAN$  1.1646  

IN BRIEF 
Microsoft to delay release of Vista 
SEATTLE -Microsoft Corp. will delay the consumer release of its new Windows operat­ing system until January 2007, missing the holiday sales season and throwing some PC makers and retailers into turmoil. 
The delay in Windows Vista -caused by Microsoft needing more time to enhance se·curity and other functions -will come as a blow to Microsoft partners who were looking forward to a new operating system to boost holiday sales. 
Windows Vista is Microsoft's first major update to the company's flagship operating system since Windows XP was released in late 2001. 
"It's not the optimal situation, to be launch­ing the next-generation version of Windows right after the big holdiay sales season," said analyst Joe Wilcox with Jupiter Research. 
The company will release some versions of the new operating system for big businesses by November as planned, but the consumer version will be postponed until January, said Jim Allchin, co-president of the Microsoft division that includes Windows. 
Energy costs depress wholesale prices 
WASHINGTON -A huge drop in energy costs helped push prices at the wholesale level down last month by the largest amount in nearly three years. But with the cost of gasoline rising again, the reprieve could be short-lived. 
The Labor Department reported Tuesday that wholesale prices fell by 1.4 percent itl February as food and energy both recorded big declines. 
But analysts cautioned against reading too much into the Fe)Jruary decrease, saying it was heavily influenced by a warmer-than­normal winter, which cut demand for home heating fuel and helped energy producers rebuild inventories that had been depleted after last fall's hurricanes. 
The govermmmt reported Monday that the average retail price of gasoline soared by 
13.H cents last week to $2.50 per gallon for regular grade. Unleaded gasoline futures are up by 42 cents per gallon since mid­February. 
U.S. ethanol supply insufficient 
After much good fortune, fuel industry braces for some unwanted attention 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -After a spurt of good fortune, the fledgling U.S. ethanol indus­try is anticipating some growing pains that could bring it unwanted attention this summer. 
Ethanol's public profile rose significantly for the better last July when Congress passed an energy bill that mandates the dou­bling of biofuels output by 2012. In January, President Bush gave the industry a further boost with a strong endorsement in his State of the Union speech. And with the imminent phaseout of a petrochemical added to gasoline to reduce tailpipe emissions, more U.S. motorists will depend on the corn-derived fuel than ever before. 
But there's trouble loom­ing: The ethanol industry might not be ready to satis­fy the expected summer­time jump in demand. And by crimping the overall sup­ply of motor fuel, this could contribute to a spike in gasoline pump prices at the start of the country's peak driving season. 

That, at least, is the view of the Energy Department, which issued a report last month detailing the chal­lenges midwestern ethanol producers will have in get­ting their fuel to key mar­kets along the East Coast in the marketplace." gallon, or about 50 cents of the letter sent to the because of railroad, truck­Still, ethanol-related wor­per gallon higher than Energy Department. ing and other distribution rjes hang over the U.S. usual, according to the Oil Dinneen said the industry bottlenecks. The report also market, contributing to a Price Information Service of is taking steps to mitigate highlighted concerns about 42-cent-per-gallon increase Wall, N.J. Because ethanol the problems, such as Lilling the limited output capacity in unleaded gasoline makes up one-tenth of ethanol storage tanks on of an industry still in its futures since mid-February. every gallon of unleaded the East Coast before sum­infancy. There are other factors gasoline with which it is mer arrives and contracting 
The Renewable Fuels behind the recent wholesale blended, this windfall for barges that can ship Association, a trade group gasoline price spike, includ­ethanol producers ends up ethanol down the representing ethanol pro­ing soaring oil prices, costing motorists an extra 5 Mississippi River and then ducers such as Archer strong demand and persist­cents per gallon at the up the Atlantic seaboard. Daniels Midland Co. and ent strains on the U.S. pump. Energy analysts said it is Pacific Ethanol Inc., says refining system. High prices will spur unclear whether ethanol the industry's challenges The average retail price more ethanol production -producers can manufacture and their influence on gaso­of gasoline in the United there are 33 new plants and distribute enough sup­line prices are being States is $2.51 a gallon -under construction -but ply once U.S. refiners phase overblown. The association the highest level since some minor near-term out the use of a petrochemi­sent an angry letter to the October -and some ana­complications can be cal called methyl tertiary Energy Department last lysts say $3 is a possibility expected due to the rapid butyl ether, or MTBE, which week, questioning the over­by summer. increase in demand, said enables gasoline to burn all thoroughness of its Wholesale prices for Bob Dinneen, president of more completely, and thus research and accusing it of ethanol. meanwhile, have the Renewable Fuels more cleanly, but carries creating "unnecessary fears surged to roughly $2.75 a Association and the author some public health risks. 

Supreme Court blocks investor suits 
Associated Press scandals," said Columbia Law School ally lose customers and money in their 
professor John Coffee, who believes it own investments. 
WASHINGTON -The Supreme Court will be too expensive for individual stock The case required the court to consid­made it harder Tuesday for investors to owners to pursue such suits. er a 1995 federal law, passed over a join forces to file high-stakes fraud law­It was a major victory for Merrill presidential veto after Republicans took suits against companies. Lynch & Co., which faced a spate of law­control of Congress, and a follow-up law 
The 8-0 decision blocks state class­suits prompted in part by New York approved three years later intended to 
action lawsuits by stockholders who Attorney General Eliot Spitzer's 2002 restrict investor class-action lawsuits. 
contend they were tricked into holding probe into the investment banking The Merrill Lynch brokers filed a 
onto declining shares. finn's practices. class-action suit under state law in 
Justice John Paul Stevens. writing for Spitzer uncovered records showing Oklahoma. but the justices said in 
the court, said that to rule otherwise that Merrill Lynch analyst.'> publicly rec­Tuesday's decision that Congress 
would allow "wasteful, duplicative liti­ommended that investors buy stocks intended to prevent their claims and 
gation." that were described privately as a "dis­others like them. 
The decision does not shut the door to aster" or "dog." MerrilllJinch agreed to "Public companies no longer have to 
lawsuits liled by individual stockholders, a $100 million fine. lear the threat of securities class-actions 
but rather to suits brought on behalf of Former Merrill Lynch brokers said in in 50 difl"erent states under potentially 
large groups. the Supreme Court case that the compa­50 different sets of laws," said Jay 
"There had been some. upswing in ny's overly positive appraisals caused Kasner, a New York attorney who rep­
these after the Enron and WorldCom them to give bad advice -and eventu-resented Merrill Lynch. 
page 8 

continued from page I 
(;unty, who also sits on the Cybor Vice Task Force, said the purpose of' the survey is to pro­vide the task forces with a grounding in the empirical cvi­denee of' student exp1~ricnen in n~gards to the issues each group is addressing. 
Lod by Oflke of' Hesidenee Life and Housing direetor .JHI'f Shoup, the Task Foree on (;ambling is an informal group housed under the ornee of Student AITairs that is examin­ing the problnm of lntnrnet and in-person gambling at Notre Dame, according to Associate 
Center 
continued from page I 
Th11 Family .Justicn Center of' Saint .losnph County would snrvn as a comprehHnsivn cen­ter that unites all the serviens -such as psyclwlogieal, phys­ieal and spiritual aid -needed by domes1ie abuse victims undor orw roof'. 
c;winn said rHsoarch has shown when family violenen ocnrrs, vietims must go to 32 di!Ten1nt agonei~>s to receive necessary help. 
"The hopn is that the I Family Violence Center! will end the cyele of' family violnnee," he said. 
Notre Dame will maintain a strong connection with the new project as the Hobinson Community Learning Center, Notre Damn Security/Police and the Center for Social Concerns will be three of' the 22 local organizations that will make up the center. 
According to Chair of' the Family .Justiee Center of Saint Joseph County Peter Morgan, approximately 12 Notre Dame faculty members have also already expressed interest in arranging student internships with th11 center. 
Gwinn said the center runs on employees who work there nvnryday, caring for those who experience domestic abuse. 
"So many aspeets of this community am rallying around this vision ... induding the aea­demic community, mueh like you hav1~ here with Notre Vice President for Student AITairs Bill Kirk. 
Kirk said the group is using the survey results to supple­ment the information about gambling on campus gathered over the semester at several rector and student focus groups. 
The Cyber Vice Task Force, formed under the Gender Hesouree Center by GHC direc­tor !leather Hakoczy, will meet three times during the next month with the aim to "increase awareness, education and dia­logue by addressing high-risk on-line behaviors that can be obstaeles to healthy relation­ships," Hakoezy said. 
Its almost 30 members ­eomposed of equal numbers of 
Dame," he said. 
As part ol' the President's Family .J ustiee Center Initiative to create eomprehensive domestic abuse eenters throughout America, South Bend was chosen as one of 15 communities nationwide out of 400 applicants to receive fed­eral aid to ereate a local family justice eenter. 
Loeal statistics show police respond to over X,OOO domestic abuse calls each year. However, the Department of Justice estimates only 54 per­cent of partner violence is reported which means it is estimated over 1(>,000 instance of abuse actually occur. 
Gwinn said it is important to stay united as a community and advancing a common goal to create the center in Saint Joseph County and work to end the violence. 
"Fear beeomes the enemy to this vision ... the people here get it, they are good people and there are so many local agencies that support it," he said. "The challenge is to stay tognther to get this to happen." 
Gwinn said the opening of each new center is a step in breaking the chain of family violence, and if this center does not open the abuse will continue in this community. 
"If you can come together ... around a common vision to help families in need and break the trend of family vio­lence we can change the world," he said. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

GMAT I GRE I LSAT I MCAT I OAT I OAT I PCAr 
Take cr FREE practice test at this event and you'll receive a detailed score a1'1alysls and exclusive strategies to help you prepare for Test Day! 
Saturday March 25th, 2006 MCA T, LSA T, GRE, &GMAT practice tests 
at Saint Mary's College Register Today!!  
ENROLL TODAY  limited seats are available. Calll-800-KAPor visit kaptest.com/practice. •Test numm; are regJsterud trademarks of theu respuctive owners.  -TEST BPGA0003  

~~----~~~------------------------------. 
The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, March 22, 2006 
men and women, and faculty and students, Hakoczy said ­plan to discuss the nature of the "high-risk on-line behaviors" like viewing pornography, instant messaging and using sites like Faeebook, and come up with strategies for solutions. 
Both Kirk and Hakoczy said the groups hope to provide Student Affairs with a report or recommendation on how best to deal with their respective researched problems, potential­ly by the end of the semester. 
Gunty said the similar inter­ests of both task groups allowed him to combine their questions into one survey. 
"As I understand it, both con­versations are basieally about how to promote healthy rela­tionships and have a focus on doing something about these things that are obstacles to healthy relationships," Gunty said. "On the one hand, there's gambling, which is not only unhealthy to relationships but to individuals, and the other group sees that so much of relating now has some eompo­nent on the Internet that they're just wondering what effect this has on relationships." 

Gunty said he received an e­mail from one of the survey recipients who ealled its "Healthy Relationships" title a misnomer, beeause respondents were not given time to talk about gender relations on cam­pus. 
Gunty defended the survey 
title, saying that while it might be "a little misleading" beeause of the heavy connotations the phrase "healthy relationships" carries at Notre Dame in terms of gender relations, he still chose the name "because the ultimate concern about these behaviors is their ell'ect on rela­tionships, so we're taking the term ['healthy relationships'] in a much broader sense." 
Gunty said he will present a set of preliminary results to the Cyber Vice Task Force at the group's first meeting Friday. As of Tuesday, only 25 percent of survey recipients had respond­ed. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
Bank ow-nership under review-
Associated Press WASIIINGTON -Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke is raising concerns about a legal provision that lets companies own a certain kind of bank, ineluding one Wal-Mart Stores Inc. wants to operate in Utah. The Fed chief's comments were aimed at an exemption in federal law that allows companies to own such banks, called industrial loan compa­nies. "The question of whether, or to what extent, the mixing of banking and eommerce should be permitted is an important issue and one that we believe should be made by Congress," Bernanke said. "The decision has important ramifications for the structure of the American financial system and the economy, particularly because any widespread com­binations of banking and com­merce likely would be irre­versible." 
Bernanke's comment came in a written response to ques­tions on that and other issues raised by Hep. Brad Sherman, D-Calif., during a February hearing. Bernanke's response, dated Monday, was released to The Associated Press on Tuesday. 
"It is for these reasons that the (Fedl board has encour­aged Congress to review tho exnmption in eurrent law," Bernanke wrote. · 
The Fed ehief addressed the matter in broad terms. He did­n't mention Wai-Mart specifi­cally. 
Wal-Mart, the nation's largest retailer, has l'iled an application to operate an industrial loan company in Utah. The Bentonville, Ark.­based retailer is seeking to set up such a bank so it could process credit card, debit card and electronic check transac­tions from its retail locations. 
Former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan, who retired at the end of January, had urged Congress to elosc the legal loophol1~. Bernanke took the helm of the central bank Feb. 
1. 
On other matters, Bernanke again urged Congress to trim the budget deficit, especially in light of the need for the government to prnpare for the retirement of thn baby boom generation. "I believe that reducing the federal defieit is very important," he said. "I urge the Congress to proceed on that nffort in a timely man­ner." 
Bernanke also said that although the country's massive trade deficits -whieh set record highs four years in a row -"cannot continue to widen forever," these deficits need not trigger a "precipitous decline" in the value of the 
U.S. dollar. Were such a decline in the dollar to oecur, it wouldn't necessarily disrupt financial markets, production or employment, he said. 
FLY FOR FREE NEXT WEEI<! 
If you've ever dreamed of being behind the controls of an airplane, this is your chance to find out what it's really like. 
AMarine Corps pilot is coming to Notre Dame on 
Wednesday, March 29, to take you on trial flights. We're looking for a few college students who have the smarts, skills and interest to be a Marine pilot. 
CoN 1M 1 YouR M,\lliNL CoRPS Otllct:R Sn t:CitON 'I t:AM 
RESERVE YOUR SEAT TODAY! 
Capt. Barclay or Gunnery Sgt. Templeton 
765-479-1275 
OSOLAF@MARINES.USMC.MIL 
MARINE OFFICER PROGRAMS 
MARINEOFFICER.COM 
Get in the air. Get some information. The flight is on us. 


-----~~---------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, March 22, 2006 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
United States bugged Filipino leader's phones 
American authorities suspected former president Estrada was receiving government secrets from FBI agent 

Associated Press 
MANILA, Philippines ­Former President Joseph Estrada said Tuesday he has been notified by an American court that U.S. authorities bugged his telephone conver­sations with an FBI analyst accused of revealing U.S. gov­ernment secrets. 
The New Jersey court indi­cated it authorized the wire­tapping as part of an investiga­tion into Leandro Aragoncillo last year, Estrada said, adding that there was no suggestion he was under investigation. 
Estrada, who was toppled by a popular revolt in 2001, previ­ously acknowledged receiving American government assess­ments of Philippine political events from Aragoncillo, a 21­year Marine veteran who became an FBI intelligence analyst in 2004. 
"The notice said that my telephone calls with Aragoncillo were wiretapped," Estrada told The Associated Press in a telephone interview. "The wiretapping was author­ized by the court." 
Aragoncillo was arrested in the United States last year. He has been charged with con­spiring to reveal government secrets, acting as a foreign agent and improperly using FBI computers. Those charges carry a maximum sentence of 25 years. 
He has not been charged with espionage, which carries a maximum penalty of capital punishment. 
Michael Drewniak, spokesman for the U.S. Attorney's Office in Newark, N.J., has refused to comment on the alleged wiretapping, which was first reported by the Philippine Daily Inquirer, citing government sources. 
"Even if that were so, I would not comment on it," Drewniak said last week. 
Estrada is under house arrest while on trial for cor­ruption charges and was to testify on Wednesday. Prosecutors say he amassed 

LOOKING FOR f OR 
_w: ? 

FRIDAY, MARCH 24th INCC CAREER & INTERNSHIP FAIR 
held at IUSB's Student Activities Center Over 140 Companies witl be in attendance! Check out the jobs @ www.iusb.edu/-iusbjf 
SPONSORED IN PART BY: SAINT MARY'S, HOLY CROSS AND NOTRE DAME CAREER CENTERS 

$77 million in illegal gambling ralized U.S. citizen in 1991. He payoffs, tax kickbacks and worked at the White House on commissions stashed in secret the security detail for vice bank accounts under an alias. presidents AI Gore and Dick 
"There will be nothing Cheney in 1999-2002 before extraordinary in my testimony joining the FBI as a civilian because I only have to tell the intelligence analyst at Fort truth." Estrada told The Monmouth, N.J. Associated Press by phone Estrada said he met Tuesday. ''I'm confident that Aragoncillo when he visited 
history will vin­ the  United  
dicate  me from  States while  
these  charges  he  was  still  
by a  conspiracy  ''I'm confident that  president  
of the elite, church leaders  history will vindicate me  and was introduced to  
and  thieving  from these charges by a  him  and  
politicians." In the Aragoncillo case, Estrada  conspiracy of the elite, church leaders and thieving politicians."  other White H o u s e staffers of Filipino  
has  acknowl­ descent.  
edged speaking by phone with the FBI analyst  Joseph Estrada former Philippine president  Their friend­ship blos­somed, with  

and receiving 
U.S. govern­ment documents on the politi­cal situation in the Phi1ippines. But he has played down their value, saying the assessments were similar to those being reported by Philippine newspa­pers. 
Asked about the wiretapping, Estrada said: "My reaction is nothing, because even before this, I have admitted that I've talked with him ... (and) that those details were nothing more than newspaper accounts of what's happening in the country." 
Estrada has insisted that Aragoncillo passed on informa­tion to the Philippines not in exchange for money but out of his concern for his impover­ished homeland. 
Aragoncillo became a natu-
Aragoncillo 

visiting him at the Malacanang presidential palace and in a hospital where Estrada was once confined. 
Washington has invoked its Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty with Manila to get files on a number of Filipinos who might have received information from him, a Philippine investi­gator has said. 
Meanwhile, a lawyer for Aragoncillo's co-defendant wants to question the former president and Philippine Sen. Panfilio Lacson, an opposition leader, as part of the defense. 
Mark Berman, who repre­sents Michael Ray Aquino, asked U.S. District Judge William Walls on Monday to approve the depositions. The 
U.S. Attorney's office in Newark opposes such a move. 
Castro welco111es back Cuban baseball team 
Japan defeated Cuba in global baseball event 
Associated Press 
HAVANA -Cubans lined the streets by the thousands Tuesday to welcome their national base­ball team home, waving flags, roaring cheers and clutching flowers. Despite Cuba's loss to Japan in the final, even Fidel Castro was in a jovial mood. 
"There was almost an electrical crisis in this country with all the television sets turned on," the 79­year-old leader joked in his address to the several thousand fans assembled for the home­coming. 
The day after Japan beat Cuba 10-6 to win the inaugural World Baseball Classic, players' wives, children and other relatives greeted them with hugs and kiss­es on the tarmac as their flight arrived Tuesday from San Diego. 
"We'll be back," promised Yadel Marti, who was honored as the tournament's best pitcher, despite playing for a team with no major league players. 
Looking somewhat sad. team­mate Frederich Cepeda said, "those of us in baseball don't like to lose. Victory was so close, but we didn't achieve it." 
The players then embarked on a ride through Havana's streets in a convoy of olive green military Jeeps. With wailing police sirens, thousands of school children, workers and other baseball fans cheered as they streamed by. 
At the homecoming celebra­tion, Castro personally greeted each player, giving each a com­memorative wooden bat manu­factured in their team's honor. The players, in turn, returned to Castro the huge Cuban flag he entrusted to them before their departure, as well as two base­balls signed by all team mem­bers. 
Castro said he had personally watched every single game they played, and "enjoyed, along with millions of citizens, of your feats over there." 
The communist leader cele­brated their participation in the Classic as "a victory against the unfair exclusion" of the team. It initially appeared that tightened 
U.S. restrictions would prevent Cuba from playing. 
It took an appeal by Major League Baseball and a promise by Cuba that any winnings would go to Hurricane Katrina relief to change the U.S. government's mind. 
But even bigger than winning the right to participate was that there were no defections as some had predicted early on, said Angel Iglesias, vice president of Cuba's National Institute of Sports. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page I 0 Wednesday, March 22, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Suicide of academic isolationism 
1~0. llox 779, Nt>!rc Dame. IN 46556 024 South llining H.11l. Nurre D.unc. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CIIIH MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDIHlR BUSINI'SS MANAGER Maddit· I Ia nna Paula Garcia 
Ass·l: MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Couumukkala Ass·1: MANAGINc; EDITOR: Rohen (;riflin 
NEWS EDITORS: Mary Kate Malone Amanda Michaels SI'Oiri"S EDITOR: Ken Fowler Sc:ENF EDITOR: BriJn Doxtader SAINT MARY'S ElliTOR: Kelly Mecha11 I'IIOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GltAI'IIICS EDITOR: Graham Ebcrsch AllVI'Ifi"ISING MANAGI'R: Sharon Brown 
All DK~Ic;N MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: jim Kirihara 
WEll ADM II\ ISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
0Fm:E MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(174) 631-7471 fAX (174) 6JI-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.t•du 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(174) 6.H-4541 obsme@'nd.cdu 
A:lSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5.~ 13 
. NEWS DESK 
(574) 63 1-'B23 obsncws.l([1Jnd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint. I @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) (>31-4143 sports. I@nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
(57';) 631-4140 sccnt'.!@nd.cdu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574"! 631-8767 obsphow@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 6jJ-8839 
lifE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's (\>liege. Editorial conrenr, including advenisements, is nm governed by policie.~ of the adrninimation ofeither institution. Th·~ Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The nc'WS is rt·poned dS accurately and objectively as possible. l lnsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of tilt' Editor in Chief: Managing Editor, As.~istant Managing Editors .md department editors. Comtn<'tltaries, letters ;md columns presem the views of the author.~ and not necessarily those ofThe ()bscrver. 
Vicwpoim >pace is available to ;til readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leiters is encouraged. !.etters to rhc Editor must he signed and mtL<t include t:onran inJ(lrni.Hitm. 
Qurstiom regardi11g Obsrrver policies should be dirnted to F.ditor in ChiefMike Gil!oor1. 
f'OST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'J'h(' {)!J!it'rvcr (USP~· "i'J'J 2-4tiC.IO) ,. publuhcd Monday through Ftid~y ou.ept during Uilm and Y<l!Ut\On pmucb. A mbr.cripnun ttl Tht Oh\C:Mt is $1(>0 fur ~~nc: ..adcmic 
yc<~r:USturonc~~e!lll!!lrc:r. 
The 01-.c:rvcr iJ publi~lu:d ;u: POHMA.ITER 
021 Suurh Dininr; t1.&11 Xnd .tddrCll torrcctioru to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46~Sb·U779 ·rmob.~rver Pcriodlt".ll puu"Kl' p•1id oar Nnen: Dame P.O. Box719 .IUd.Jd,\iuuualmatlinRulfices 024 )i)urh Dining llall 
Norre Dame:, IN 46556-on? 

l"hc: ()b~tvtr i..'l .1. llltmbtr ufthc-~k:*-t«l Pte\Jo. All r~:ptodu~tion rights .~ore rt'\CfV«I 
It just so happens that the linest pro­fnssor I ever had while I was a student at Notre Dame taught the two-snmester Arts and Letters Core course. Not coinei­dnntally this course was also the occa­sion of signilieant and lasting porsonal and intollectual growth on my part (you know, the kind that is always adver­tised in admissions brochures, but that no one honestly expects to expnri­ence). 
That professor no longer works for the University-to its loss -nor dews Core now exist as anything but a fading ocho of its prior aims. It has sinee been moh~st­od into submission by a coalition of shortsightod students unable to undor­stand its value and or professors lacking the skill and insight to teach it properly. What passes for Core these days (the "College Smninar") is roally just an excuse for profnssors to once again tnaeh to their own disciples and perhaps a few pet interests. 
This is very mueh a sign of the times, because Core in its uncompromised form was one of the University's most demanding courses in terms of professo­rial ability. It required a special kind of instructor -one able to step outside of the narrowness of his own discipline, possessing an appreciation for and skill with interrelationships and holding no small amount of life-wisdom. But what should have been an occasion for the University's greatest minds, those who incarnate Notre Dame's mission, to step forward (the late Hobert Vacca, who was among these and who did teach Core, notwithstanding) more often fell on the shoulders of those who happened to be 

Lance Gallop 
Tidewater Blues 

of lowest departmental rank. 
The rape of Core is regrettable (and a sore point for me, as you may have noticed), but I draw your attention to it now because it is indicative of thn greater and self-exacerbating trend of academic specialization, where eaeh disciple strictly isolates itself from its neighbors (due in no small part to thnir steep learning eurvns) and of the conse­quential losses to our society and cul­ture. 
Computers, and their maintainers, arc an exeellnnt practical ease study of thn phenomena sinen almost everyone inter­acts with eomputnrs on a daily basis, but rarely thinks twice about it. Consider programmers-the men and women whosn chosnn task it is to modiato between the world of information, com­munieations and algorithms and tho normal people who try to use these processes to improve their daily lives. 
Programmers are typically trained in advanced math, computer architeeturn, methodology, a half-dozen programming languages (ideally) of varied propnrties and (if they arn lucky) projeet manage­ment and team coordination. With hard work and about seven years of practical experience, a programmer with this foundation ean become adept enough to produce very high quality work-as long as its intended audience is another programmer. 
You will never lind a Computer Science student-even at the most advanced schools -studying art, archi­tecture~. psychology, sociology and poli­tics as part of her primary training. Even in schools that take a stab at requiring courses in other disciplines­like Notre Dame with its philosophy and theology -there is almost no one in the Computer Science department who makes any attempt at linking these ideas. So colleges churn out program­mers who are very good at the mechan­ics of their art, but who nonetheless miss the point of the entire cmdnavor. 
After all. how can someone design soft­
ware for humans lacking a sound 
undorstanding of how pnopln relate to 
the world around thc~m'? 
It is any wondor, tlwn, that most soft­ware programs ereatn morn problems thon they solvo'? Or that so many user intnrfaeos-for all the quality tlw code beneath thmn-are garbage'? I have encountnred individuals who feared their c:omputnrs, bec:ause the machinc~s bnhaved in ways that they could not understand, and demandnd that users bend to their needs ratlwr than the other way around. And so, whilo thn eomputnr does indeed havn thn potnntial to eomplotely reshap1~ tlw way we work with information, bneausc almost no onn in the linld tho vision to takn it to this point, thn modern computer is stagnat­ing as a glorified elnctronic dnsk. 
Of coursn, the program of study that I have outlinnd above is impractical in the unforgiving business of highnr ndu­cation. Irwn aeknowlndgn thn problnm, then we must also acknowledge that some influnncing factors will change more rnadily than othnrs and that the thrnat of runaway speeialization is too dil'licult and far reaehing to propose a simple solution to it. However, wn must nonetheless demand that the University cease to ignore it, and that the rich resourcns of this institution and of its many departments be put to the task of seeking a better way to 11mbrace inter­disciplinary study, lest the quality of a higher education itself altogetlwr per­ish. 
Lance Gallop is a 2005 graduate ofNotre Dame. Comments should be e-mailed to comments@tidewaterblues.com More ofhis opinions can befimnd atwww.lidewa­terblues. com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

'TODAY'S STAFF 

Ntwvs Sports OBSERVER POLL Megan O'Neil Kate Gales Kaitlynn Hiely Tim Dougherty Maureen Mullen Joe Quinn How do you feel about the Viewpoint St~ene 
absence of Greek life on campus?
Laura Sonn Tae Andrews Graphics Brian Doxtader Graham Ebetseh Ham a Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. Gottumukkala 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Submit aLetter 
to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver,com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Imagination is the beginning of creation. You imagine what. ym1 desire, you will what you imagine and at last you create what you will." 
George Bernard Shaw Irish author 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 22, 2006 page 11 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
'Fighting Irish' moniker found offensive 
An open letter to Dr. Myles Brand and the Executive Committee of the NCAA ­
On Feb. 3, 2006, the Tribune Wire Services reported that when Dr. Myles Brand was "asked why Fighting Irish is acceptable at Notre Dame but Fighting Sioux at North Dakota is not, Brand said, "We've never had any Irish people come to us and say, 'We find that offensive."' 
Let this letter serve then as your official notice that some of the Irish (I am one) are indeed offend­ed by a mascot dressed as an undignified lep­rechaun, flitting and prancing all around the foot­ball field or basketball court. Beyond that, we take particular offense with the moniker "Fighting Irish." As an Irish-American Catholic and citizen of both the U.S. and the Republic of Ireland, I am truly insulted by these portrayals of my race, her­itage, creed and culture. 
The term "Fighting Irish" harkens back to the many past oppressions suffered by Irish Catholics, first in the Emerald Isle at the hands of British aggressors and then when Irish immigrants reached these U.S. shores. They experienced oppression and bigotry as they tried to assimilate into American culture. They not only felt extreme prejudice, but many were also victims at the hands of the Ku Klux Klan and similar hateful groups. 
If, as you, Mr. Brand, have also stated, "the NCAA objects to institutions using raciaVethnic/national origin references in their intercollegiate athletics programs," then the NCAA should disallow Fighting Irish and their leprechaun mascot. By taking this stand against Notre Dame, the NCAA will demon­strate that "hostile and abusive" references will not just mean "hostile and abusive (with exemptions allowed)." but will truly attempt to meet its stated goal of no racial, ethnic or national origin refer­ences in their intercollegiate programs. 
As a graduate of the University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign, I find the NCAA's current ambiguous stance incomprehensible and an anathe­ma to all reasoned persons. If Florida State's Chief Osceola is deemed to be "non-offensive," then how can you possibly rationalize that Chief Illiniwek, for instance, is hostile? Logic dictates that if one Indian Chief is approved then all should be allowed. 
At this point, the NCAA only appears to be unde­niably hypocritical. Let's correct that impression. It is unfathomable to think that "Fighting Sioux" is offensive and, somehow, in the eyes of the NCAA, that "Fighting Irish" is not. 
Please do the right thing and either ban all refer­ences to raeiaVethnic/national origins or just leave them all be. 
Paul L. Richards March 21 

U-WIRE 
Feingold motion creates divide 
Stunt is irrational Bush's actions warrant censure 
Last week, Sen. Russ Feingold of Wisconsin brought a resolution to the floor of the United States Senate asking for the censure of President George W Bush. Feingold cited the president's "ille­gal use of wiretap-T 
ping" as the main r~y 
reason for bringing Cahva the resolution to the Senate floor. To cen-Daily Toreador sure the president Texas Tech for something that helps maintain the security of this country is absolutely ridiculous. Feingold is merely Don Quixote fighting his imaginary giants, when in reality they're just windmills. 
Censure is a congressional procedure, which reprimands either the president of the United States or a member of Congress. No loss of power occurs when one is censured; it is merely used as a political tool to publicly condemn some­one's actions. Only one president has bnen censured, Andrew Jackson, and his censure was overturned once Democrats assumed control of Congress. 
Sen. Joseph McCarthy was censured following his reckless attempt<; to identi­fy and expose Communists or Communist sympathizers in America. While on the surface the McCarthyism of the 1950s and President Bush's use of the NSA to conduct domestic surveil­lance might appear similar, the intent behind their actions are dra..'itieally dif­ferent. McCarthy sought to use his posi­tion a..'> a U.S. senator to tend to his own personal views without any thought of the consequences. President Bush, on the other hand, used his domestic spying program to protect this country from those who would seek to destroy it and its citizens. The intelligence collected by the NSA as part of this program only benefits the national security interest of this country and was not used for per­sonal reasons or abused in any way. Do you really think President Bush's approval rating would be hovering in the mid-30s if he truly had access to his political opposition's communications? 
If Feingold really believes this is the correct time to call for censure, and that he has a chance of succeeding in his res­olution, he must really be nuts. It's per­plexing that someone, let alone a sena­tor, would drag this issue up again. Democrats are on the heels of their biggest victory -which was largely self­appointed -in national security in quite a long time. The Democratic Party, as of late, has been notoriously weak on national security. Perhaps that's what happens when you choose flowers over guns, but that's the subject of another column. Not even a month ago, though, the Democrats were condemning the decision to allow Dubai Ports International to manage several ports here in the states. Their use of covert bigotry and casual ignorance of American interests and international • relations won over the American public, and Democrats finally had a victory in a national security matter. 
Rehashing the topic, however, will do nothing more than help mobilize a fal­tering Republican base. After Feingold presented his resolution, the Republican National Committee subsequently sent it out to more than 15 million Republican supporters across the nation. Support for the president was wide reaching and might help the Republicans gain some momentum in the coming months as the mid-term elections near. 
I'm frankly astonished at the amount of time our Congressional members have on their hands. Evidently the prob­lems of education, health care, crime, pollution, declining family values, the war on drugs, worldwide terrorism and a $9 trillion dollar national debt all have been solved so Congress can frivolously spend their time slapping wrists around Wa..'ihington. I'd suggest his constituents in Wisconsin send him a few Sudoku books and a big block of cheese to help him pass the time until this session of Congress is over. 
Besides the timing ofhis actions, I still find it absurd the lengths Democrats will go to hinder our national security. The domestic spying program was used to intercept communications from those in this country that contacted members or suspected members of al-Qaida. Haven't talked to any terrorists lately? Then you have nothing to worry about, so sit down and shut up. Republicans are against any repeat ofthe attacks of Sept. 11. Do we have to step on a few toes to main­tain our security? I say, as does President Bush, that we should do what­ever it takes to keep America safe. The time has come for Democrats to realize that as well. Sen. Feingold, you and your party have beat this horse too many times. Enough is enough. 
This column originally appeared in the March 21 issue ofthe Daily Toreador, the daily publication at Texas Tech University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Sen. Feingold is right. The president ought to be censured. It is a reasonable, just and measured response. It is not impeachment. A censure is a rebuke issued by a legislative body to a government official for misconduct. It carries no legal weight, only the force of public Jason condemnation. But that's Rhode enough. Andrew Jackson got one in 1834. That 
Daily Toreador 
was his time. This is 

Texas Tech 
Bush's. 

I urge the approval of Feingold's resolution. Bush ordered wiretap­ping ofAmerican citizens in 2002. Apart from violating the Fourth Amendment, the president ran afoul of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978. 
FISA was set up as a way to give the exec­utive branch a regulated and legal way to wiretap terrorists. Our laws dearly state FISA "shall be the exclusive means by which electronic surveillance ... and the intercep­tion of domestic wire, oral and electronic communications may be conducted." The act set up a court consisting of seven federal dis­trict court judges appointed by the chief jus­tice. They have staggered terms, and come from different circuits (50 U.S.C.A. § 1803). Through the Department ofJustice's Office of Intelligence Policy and Review, the attorney general submits sealed tapping request<; for the special court's consideration. You're even allowed to spy right away-as long as you go to the court within three days after. And the court almost never refuses a request. 
But Bush? He went ahead and did it any­way-spied on American citizens by execu­tive order in 2002. Courts be damned. 
And here's the thing-he admits that he did it. Bush must be the first chief executive in history to publicly confess to an impeach­able offense -Ican do what I want to. Mission accomplished. Bring it on. 
Nobody denies the necessity of spying on our enemies. But at the end of the day, Bush broke the law. The president's Constitutional charge is to "take care that the laws be faith­fully executed;" not to make them, to negate some portion of them based on his mood. "All legislative powers herein granted" flow to Congress. 
The White House di<;agrees. War silences law, they say. The basic argument of this administration? In war, the president can do as he damn well pleases. 
Bush's court theorist, ex-Deputy Assistant Attorney General John Yoo, wrote "Neither statute, however, can place any limits on the president's determinations as to any terrorist threat, the amount ofmilitary force to be used in response or the method, timing and nature of the response. These decisions, under our Constitution, are for the president alone to make." From what stone comes this 
miraculous water? There's nothing in the 
"Authorization for Use of Military Force" that 
grant'i Bush such power, certainly no revoca­
tions of FISA. Indeed, Bush could have asked 
for "less" of FISA in the Patriot Act, but did­
n't. 

Does Article I, Section 8 not give Congress 
the authority to define and punish piracies 
and felonies committed on the high seas, and 
offenses against the law of nations; to declare 
war; to raise and support armies, but no 
appropriation ofmoney to that use shall be 
for a longer term than two years; to provide 
for calling forth the militia to execute the 
laws ofthe union, suppress insurrections and 
rebel invasions; to provide for organizing, 
arming and di<;ciplining the militia, and for 
governing such part ofthem as may be 
employed in the service of the United States? 
If all war powers were meant for the presi­
dent, then why are so many of them given to 
Congress? Curious. 
Yoo has missed his calling. The pen of sueh 
a gifted weaver of fantasy might have 
spawned tales of speaking unicorns defend­
ing rainbow bridges, had it not been yoked to 
the more mundane task of defending dynas­
tic prerogative. It is a loss to children every­
where. Did the president always agree with 
Yoo's delusions? Here's Bush on wiretapping: 
"Law enforcement officers need a federal 
judge's permission to wiretap a foreign ter­
rorist's phone, a federal judge's permission to 
track his calls or a federal judge's permission 
to search his property." 
How very curious that the president would 
say such things while fully aware ofhi'> exec­
utive order two years prior! 
Crimes like Bush's were the fears of James 
Madison, main drafter of the Constitution: 
"War is in fact the true nurse of executive 
aggrandizement." He also wrote: "In no part . of the Constitution is more wisdom to be 
found, than in the clause which confides the 
question of war or peace to the legislature, 
and not to the executive department." He 
was president once, too. 
Sandra Day O'Connor wrote for the 
Supreme Court: "A state of war is not a blank 
check for the president when it comes to the 
rights of the nation's citizens." 
What could be more dear? Neither the 
Constitution, nor war, nor history justifY the 
president's actions. He knew what he was 
doing and did it anyway. He broke the law. 
Censure him. 
This column originally appeared in the 
March 21 issue ofthe Daily Toreador, the 
daily publication at Texas Tech University. 
The views expressed in this column are 
those ofthe author and not necessarily those 
ofThe Observer. 
---------------~ -~----~~ ~--~~­
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, March 22, 2006 

By TAE ANDREWS A.~sisram Scene Ediror 
The boys am back in town. Like lyrics made famous by the rock band Thin Lizzy, the hotshot duo of brothers Larry and Andy Wachowski made their tri­umphant rnturn to the big screen with thn rnennt relnasn of "V li1r Vendetta." 
Known for both the intdlectual naturn and show-stopping action sequnnces of their films. the Wachowski brothers explodnd onto thn filmmaking scene with tho 1<J<J<) ndease of the critically­<u:daimnd film "The Matrix." Written and directed by the two brothers, "The Matrix" was an incrndibly complex film that somnhow managed to pair philo­sophkal overtones with did-you-just-sec­that aetion soquenees. 
In this manner, the Waehowskis cooked up a recipe to deliver the epistemology of Plato and Dnst:artns to the dot-com gen­nration -start with a base of thumping tnehno musk, stir in gennr­
Brothers Wachowski again teamed up with another famous pair of WBs -the Warner Bros. -in creating "V for Vendetta." 
In keeping with their revolutionary nature, the Wachowski brothers wrote the script and produced "V filf Vendetta," which follows a one-man rebellion against a Big Brother-like government. While they may have missed the mark in terms of philosophy in the "Matrix" sequels, V marks the spot with their lat­est offering. Although the Wachowskis ended the director's chair on "Vendetta" to James McTeigue, they wrote the script and produced the film. "V for Vendetta" is sprinkled with their indelible finger­prints. 
t\lso, McTeigue was the first assistant director on both of the "Matrix" sequels, and is undeniably schooled in all things Wachowski when it comes to standing behind the lens. 
In addition to their penchant for breathtaking fight scenes, the Wachowskis' obsession 
ous amounLs of bullet shells The {Wachowski] with the antihero is anoth­and explosions and top oil' er emerging theme
brothers have been 
with somn spneial-efTnets throughout their films ­
able to reach a rare
wizardry. Add in some sun­in 'The Matrix," the broth­glasses to taste, and pn~sto happy medium in ers somehow managed to -behold the intellectual turn professional man­
which they can make 
bloekhuster. nequin Keanu Reeves into
high-octane movies 
While thought-provoking "The One," the blaek-clad, philosophical elnments that are smashing messianic figure who might provide the staple saves all of humanity from 
successes both at the 
fare of the "Matrix" films, virtual-reality enslavement 
box office and with
let's be honest -everyone through his mastery of prnfers dnssnrt. And when the critics. kung-fu. 
it wmes to shooting action, no onn puLe.; the idng on the eake better than the Waehowski brothers. They an~ to action what Emeril is to the eooking channel: thn pair consistently manage to kkk it up a noteh with unbelievable fight scnnns. The rnvolutionary minds invnnted hullt~t-time, a film teehnique in which lightning-quiek snquenens are shown by filming the action in slow-motion. Fans havn grown aeeustomed to watching pen­pin dodging bullets. running oil' of walls and knocking skulls together with the Waehowski brothnrs' ineredibln visuals, whkh mmbine poetk martial arts and ~:>taecato gunplay. 
Andy and Larry followed up their bnmkthrough hit with two snquels, "The Matrix: Heloaded" and "The Matrix: Hevolutions." l>nspite the faet that the philosophieal undertonns of tho snquels li~lt eontriwd to many, the Waehowskis managnd to rakt~ in cash flows rnsem­hling tho stnmming lines of emerald com­puter coding whkh make up the Matrix. Aceording to thn International Movie DataBase, the two films eombined to makn owr $400 million at the box ollice. 
All of thnir eommereial success has allowed the Wadwwskis to have the bnst of both worlds -the brothnrs have been ahln to roach a rarn happy medium in which they t:an make high-octane movies that are smashing successes both at the box ollice and with the critics. In doing so, tlw pair has crafted an entirely new gnnro -the thinking man's action flick. After their joint "Matrix" hits, the 
In "V for Vendetta," llugo Weaving plays the controversial V, a Machiavellian insurrectionist who uses terrorist tactics to undermine a fascist government. After starring opposite Keanu Heeves as Agent Smith in the Matrix trilogy, Weaving makes the transi­tion from antagonist to protagonist here and is tn~mendous as the masked Y. 
In addition, Natalie Portman stars as Evey, a woman whose chance encounter with V inextricably winds their fates together. In a humiliating torture sequence, Evey's long locks of hair are shorn off. While most would question the decision to shave Natalie Portman's head, the gambit pays oil' in the apt hands of the Wachowskis. Portman turns out to be the hottest star to rock a shaved dome sinee Dnmi Moore in "G.I. .Jane." 
The distinctive features of Wachowski cinema are all over "V for Vendetta." The brothers create action movies that chal­lenge the audience to think a little bit more than usual. 
The pair is famously mysterious. For the "Matrix" movies, they had a contract dause that precluded their having to do any press interviews, saying they pre­ferred their films to stand for themselves. While audiences can't be certain of when the pair will film next, one thing is for certain -when the Wachowski brothers are in the kitehen, something smells good. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1@nd.edu 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Ediror 

Alan Moore stands with Frank Miller as 
one of the pioneers of the modern graphic 
novel. Before their respective seminal 1986 
works "Watchmen" and "The Dark Knight 
Returns," comic books were regarded as 
trifling children's fare. 
Moore's sophisticated and literate approach, however, elevated them into the status of genuine art and brought critical acclaim and commercial success to comic books. He remains one of the medium's most respected writers and continues to produce work to this day. 
Moore started as a writer for DC Comics by lifting one of the company's most obscure heroes, Swamp Thing, out of the muck and grime of obscurity. His work on the series elevated its status and brought the maverick writer critical acclaim, whieh allowed him to braneh out into new ideas. 1981's "V for Vendetta" was among his first major works, bringing to life a dystopian vision of the future that Moore would explore in depth throughout the 10-part series. Like "Swamp Thing," "V for Vendetta" was essentially a serial, though it was one of the writer's first forays into a more defined narrative. 
Moore's most famous and well-renowned work is undoubtedly 1986's "Watchmen," which was originally released as a monthly 12-part series. Often cited as the "Citizen Kane" of comic books, Moore's complex work set a new standard in depth, sophisti­cation and social awareness, altering the public perception of what a comic book could be. 
At the same time that Miller was return­ing atmospheric brooding to the eharacter of Batman (in "The Dark Knight Returns"), Moore was creating a startling well-con­ceived and executed work -"Watchmen" combines cross-media style (like fake news­paper clippings) and filmic tendencies in its complex, arehing narrative. Each chapter is bookcnded by passages from everyone from Nietzsche to Bob Dylan to Einstein, demon­strating the breadth of Moore's cultural (and pop cultural) knowledge. "Watchmen" remains the gold standard of graphic nov­els, and remains a powerful and pertinent work two decades later. 
Since then, Moore has worked on various projects. He has written stories featuring mainstream characters like Batman ("The Killing Joke," a disturbing but insightful reinterpretation of the Joker's origin) and Superman ("Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow?"). lie has also released original pieces like "The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen," which casts various famous characters from literature as a superhero group. 
llis most substantial work since 
"Watchmen" is probably "From Hell," a 
heavily researched examination of Jaek the 
Ripper. A massive work that runs well over 
500 pages, "From Hell" is annotated 
throughout, demonstrating the depth of 
Moore's study. 
Unfortunately, none of Moore's graphic novels have been satisfactorily been trans­lated into a film version. Up until "V for Vendetta," the Hughes brothers' take on "From Hell," the 2001 film starring Johnny Depp, was probably the best of them. But even that film lacks the consistent narrative focus and depth of research evident throughout Moore's work. 
Most egregious, however, was 2003's "The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen," directed by Steve Norrington and starring Sean Connery. Though the literary conceit and basic concept of the original graphic novel is present, much of the creativity and irony that Moore infused was stripped away in favor of standard summer blockbuster trappings. 
Moore has since washed his hands of all film translations of his works, including "V for Vendetta." Since much of his early work is the property of DC Comics, he has little control over whether or not his work gets turned into films. 
Unlike Miller-who was credited as a eo­director on Hobnrt Hodriguez's "Sin City" due to his hands-on involvement in the project See Also 
-Moore dislikes and dis­trusts llollywood, refusing "Scene Feature" to attend even the pre­
'"V For Vendetta' 

mieres of movies based 
in Context"

on his work. 
Hegardless of his disin­terest in Hollywood adap­tations of his books, Moore remains one of the torchbearers of the modern graphic novel and one of the medium's most respected scribes. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 



page 13 

.­
MOVIE REVIEW 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Scene Critic 
Imagine a world in which the most powerful country of its age, asks -nay, demands -complete obedience from its citizens. Strict curfews are under order every night. 
"Those caught breaking curfew will be prosecuted without leniency or excep­tion," barks High Chancellor Adam Sutler, the totalitarian regime's leader, over giant video screens and televisions wired into every home in the country. 
This world is the reality faced by citi­zens of Great Britain in director James McTeigue's "V for Vendetta," a film archi­tected by Larry and Andy Wachowski -the 
Graphics by GRAHAM EBETSCH!The Observer 
world she knows -just like the rest of can't help but gawk and strain to make the English landscape. out every word of the speech. 
As she struggles to stay afloat in V's Weaving's V is charming, erudite and strange new world, Evey realizes there's cultured in a country where conformity is more to her savior than his expression­the only valued attribute. He quotes less mask. V is hardly a ruthless killer, Shakespeare, swashbuckles against a though he will advance his one-man suit of armor while watching "The Count mutiny mission by any means necessary, of Monte Cristo" and triumphantly plays in the words of Malcolm X. But will Evey the "1812 Overture" while blowing up a -and in turn, the rest of the English building -a renaissance man if there people -open their eyes and consider ever was one. him a freedom fighter? Or simply the The Wachowskj brothers' screenplay dangerous terrorist vilified by Sutler's has been deemed one of the closest inter­media? pretations of Moore's 1988 graphic novel. 
Perfectly cast as the two protagonists, Self-proclaimed fans of Moore's work, the Portman and Weaving both shine in their Wachowskis wrote a first draft of the respective roles and share an undeniable script in the 1990s, before starting work chemistry. Portman's character exudes on "The Matrix." Several changes ­
intelligence and mostly in the third act -have been 
strength, yet main­made to the plot to update it for the early 
THE OBSERVER 

CEN-E

page 14 Wednesday, March 22, 2006 
SCENE FEJUURE 

Cinematic crusaders leap from comic page to screen 
By SEAN SWEANY Scene Writer 
Some of the most popular films and movie franchises of all time find their ori­gins in comic books. When superheroes and villains leap from the eomic page to the silver scrnnn. stories develop that all can nnjoy, whether they·n~ comic fans or not. 
Batman (1989) 
This Tim Burton film is often described as cheesy, but it remains important because it uslwred in the modern era of wmie book films. Michael Keaton plays a respedable Batman, but Jack Nicholson's perfimnance as the Joker makes this lilm truly mnmorable. The box ollice success of tho caped crusader set the stage for numerous Batman sequels and sparked the gnnesis of many other comic book movies to take advantage of the new market. Burton's imagination keeps the proceed­ings enjoyabln, and his talent at bringing to life the variml aspects of the comic book world makes the lilm worth seP.ing. 
X2: X-Men United (2003) 
This adaptation of the Marvel Comics franehisP. is the seeond in the series, which concerns the struggle between mutants and humans. I>ireetur Bryan Singer crafted "X2" into a firw film by eombining extraor­dinary light scenes with an intelligent, eohernnt story. Well known characters like Wolverine alfld Proli~ssor X are well acted by llugh Jackman and Patrick Stewart and a large group of supporting actors adds interesting subtleties and nuances to the eomplex story. "X2" stands out as a good comic book film because it blends action and story into a serious movie, and because it prompts thought and discussion about treatment of those difl'erent from every­body else. 

Sin City (2005) 
An adaptation of Frank Miller's graphic novels, "Sin City" is a movie with a very dis­tinet, violent style that is hard to forget. The movie has a large cast of talented actors, including Jessica Alba, Clive Owen, Benicio Del Toro, Bruce Willis, Mickey Rourke and EIUah Wood. The stories of all these ehar­aeters intertwine almost seamlessly thanks to Frank Miller's writing and the directing abilities of Robert Rodriguez. Almost com­pletely in blaek and white film except for certain moments. "Sin City" has such a unique style and method of storytelling that it becomes a must-see in the genre. 
Batman Begins (2005) 
The most reeent Batman adaptation, this film depicts the Dark Knight in a different light for a new generation. Christian Bale gives a dark, troubled performance as Bruce Wayne and forces audiences to sym­pathize with the eonditions that shape his path towards becoming Batman. Overall, this is a much darker film than any of the previous Batman installments and brings a serious, adult tone to the series. Director Christopher Nolan is already planning a sequel to follow the same lines of realism set forth in "Batman Begins." 
Superman (1978) 
This film version of the Man of Steel stands out as one of the great comic book movies of all time. Filmed in an era before digital effects, "Superman" withstands the test of time and remains a benchmark for the genre. Christopher Reeve put on one of the best superhero performances ever as both Clark Kent and Superman. Heeve became the face of Superman and embod­ied truth, justice and the American way for countless fans. "Superman" spawned three sequels starring Heeve and a new adapta­tion coming to theaters this summer. 

Spider-Man ( 2002) 
Hising above all the rest of the comic book films to set the bar for any future movies is "Spider-Man." This film gets it right on every level and is truly what a comic book film should be. Director Sam Haimi gave attention to every detail to cre­ate a fantastical world lor the comic book characters to inhabit. Tobey Maguire stars as Peter Parker/Spider-Man and earns the sympathy of the audience for the fate that befalls him. The film's slick combination of action, humor, drama, and tragedy leaves the audience craving more of the web­slinging hero. 
These big screen versions of popular comic books are some of the most loved and successful movies. Films adapted from comic books will continue to dominate the box office, sparking the imaginations and inspirations of viewers both young and old. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
'V FOR VENDETTA' IN CONTEXT 

Remember, remember Fawkes day in November 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Scene Writer 
The tap;line for "V for Vendetta" implores moviegoers everywhenl to, "Hernemhnr. rernc~rnber the 5th of Novmnber." The 5th of NovP.mbnr'? As many Anwriean audienees have proba­bly asked. "what happened on the 5th of' November?" Onn only needs to look arross the Atlantic Ocean to Great Britain to find tlw answer. The date cel­ebrates a United Kingdom holiday known as Guy Fawkes Day. 
Tlw aforementionod holiday com­nwmorates the day that Guy Fawkes and his band of conspirators attempted to blow up the Palaeo of Westminster, morn eomrnonly known as the Parliament building. The day chosen for this incendiary action was to take place on the official State Opening of l'arliarnnnt in 1605. Not only would both the I louse of Commons and Lords be f'ull, but the then King James I of England (VI or Scotland) would also be present. 
This was Fawkes' way of protesting the Protestant religion of England and promoting his own Catholicism. But who was Guy Fawkes? 
Fawkns was born in England in 1570 in York and, according to his intnrroga­tion after his eapture in 1605, convert­ed to Catholicism at the age of 16. lie enlisted in the army of the Archduke of Albert or Austria and fought in the Netherlands against the Protestant United Provinces. During his career in the military, hn gained experience in explosivns. This knowledge -coupled with his general military experience ­would allow him to beeome the main organiznr behind what would come to 

I I I
•----------­
be known as the infamous "Gunpowder 
Plot." 
This "Plot" was intended to blow up Parliament during its official opening. Fawkes, along with other English Catholics, was angry about the English governmont's persecution or Catholics in England and violence was their answer. The plan was to rent an under­croft below the !louse of Lords, place barrels of gunpowder in this room, wait for the State Opening and set ofT the gunpowder. Before their eover was blown. the group had placed 36 barrels of' gunpowder in this room, which carne in at an estimated 2.5 tons. 
Obviously the plan did not work as expected -the Parliament building is still standing almost 400 years later. For fear that promimmt Catholk politi­cians would be killed in the explosion, a conspirator notified Lord Monteagle ­himself a Catholic -of the plot. Monteagle then told the then-Secretary of State Hobert Cecil, setting off a search of the area. Fawkes was found nearby with a watch, matches and touchpaper. He was arrested, interro­gated and finally hanged for treason and attempted regicide on Jan. 31, 1606. 
The day of his arrest, Nov. 5, 1605 has since become a holiday celebrated in the UK, parts of Canada and other p·arts of the world. The day's festivities include some of the largest professional and amateur fireworks shows, accom­panied by bonfires and the eating of bonfire toffee. Until recently, children used to go door to door before the 5th and ask for "a penny for the guy." 
The holiday no longer has any politi­cal or sectarian motivations and every­one in the UK joins in the celebrations as a chance to shoot fireworks and revel with the rest of the country -in essence, much of the original meaning of the holiday has been lost. 
V, Hugo Weaving's anti-hero in "V for Vendetta," operates within a similar mentality, as the now infamous Guy Fawkes. Violent action, in the mindsets of both V and Fawkes, is the only way to succeed in promoting their agendas -this obviously takes on a different context due to the current geo-political climate. Though it should be noted that "V for Vendetta" is a fictitious story meant to be taken as entertainment, it 

still deals with complex issues and 
places them in a relevant soeio-histori­
cal context. 
As V implores people to "remember, remember, the fifth of November," so too should audiences remember the infamous day in 1605-its importance .resonates as strongly as ever four cen­
turies later. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
Wednesday, March 22, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT page 15 
ACADEMY OF 
>' 

ANCIENT MUSIC 
SATURDAY, APRIL 1, AT BPM I LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL I STUDENT TICKETS: $15 
INTERNATIONALLY RENOWNED ERHU ARTIST 
MAXIAOHUI 
Erhu: Holding Hands with the World New Colors from China 
With yangqin musician Boer Pang, percussionist 
Zekrollah Aflatuni, and pianist Jacqueline Schmidt 
WED. APR. 12 AT 7:30P.M. LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL STUDENT TICKETS: $10 
MAXIAOHUI 
ASolo Recital 
THURS. APR. 20 AT 7:30P.M. REYES ORGAN AND CHORAL HALL STUDENT TICKETS: $10 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 22, 2006 
NBA 

Ti:m_bervvolves squelch Heat's 5-ga:m_e vvinning streak 
Double-doubles by Davis, Garnett lead Minnesota to 100-96 triumph; Shaq sits out contest due to sore thumb 
New Orleans 120 
Associated Pn:ss 

LA Clippers 108 
Hasual Butler scored a 
MINNI\AI'OLIS-Hkky Davis earner-high 32 points, hitting 
had 26 points, a season-high snven :~-pointers, and the New 
I 0 assists and snvPn rebounds Orleans Hornets snapped an 
Tuesday night to lead tho eight-game losing streak with a 
Minnesota Timbnrwolves to victory over the Los Angeles 
vi1~tory ov11r an undnrmannnd Clippers on Tuesday night. 
Miami toarn, snapping th11 New Orleans hit 12 3-point­
llnat's five-game winning ers in all, the last at the final 
streak. buzzer when Butler heaved the 
Shaquill11 O'Nnal was held out ball at the hoop in eelebration 
beeause of the sore right and it went in. 
thumb hn injurnd on a dunk Butler shot well from the out­
attempt Sunday night and set, hitting seven of his first 11 
missml a physical game featur­shots, including three from 
ing 4H total fouls. long range, to help the llornets 
Kevin Garnett had 23 points take a 63-49 lead at halftime. and 1 I rebounds for Minn11sota, which has won two Charlotte 108, Orlando 102 straight games. Marko Jarie, After the Orlando Magie set a Mareus Banks and Mark Blount dubious team record, eoaeh eaeh seornd 12 points. Brian Hill indicated changes 
eould be on the way. New Yor~• 114, Toronto 109 Gerald Wallaee seored 27 
In a season where little has points and the Charlotte gone right, ehalk up one huge Bobeats sent the Magie to their wrong for the Nnw York team-reeord 16th straight road Knieks. loss with a vietory on Tuesday 
Hookin Channing Frye left the night. K n i1: ks' loss to the Toronto Haymond Felton added 16 Haptors on Tuesday night with points and 13 assists and a sprained left knee ligament Primoz Brezec scored 22 for -an injury caused when the seeond-year Bobcats, who tnammate Nate Hobinson snapped a four-game losing senmed to knoek Andre Barrett streak and won their 19th into him. game, one more than all of last Spurs were at home against half, finished off the surge with night for their 14th straight 
Barrett was racing upeourt year. Golden State on Tuesday night. a tip-in with 19 seeonds left. home win. with the ball with a little more lledo Turkoglu seored 24 Houston barely surpassed its The Kings' home-winning than 9 1/2 minutes left when points and Dwight Howard had season low of 70 points while San Antonio 107 streak is the second longest in Hobinson, ehasing him from 17 points and 15 rebounds for losing its sixth straight since a Golden State 96 franchise history. Sinee Artest behind, appeared to try to the Magic, who never led. four-game winning streak. The Tony Parker seored 29 and joined the team in late January, swipe the ball away. Barrett Orlando, whieh hasn't won on Hockets struggled so badly that Tim Duncan had 21 points and the Kings are 11-0 at home lost his balanee and fell into the road since Jan. 26 at they never even seored on 13 rebounds to lead the San with him in the lineup and 16-9 Frye's left leg. Philadelphia, broke the team three straight possessions. Antonio Spurs to vietory over overall. 
reeord for eonseeutive road Golden State on Tuesday night. Artest made 10·of 18 shots, New Jersey 112 defeats set in the 1989-90 sea­Memphis 105, Indiana 75 San Antonio has a half-game hit 11 of 15 free throws and Washington 100 son. Pau Gasol had 23 points, lead over Dallas in the added eight rebounds and six 
Hiehard Jefferson seored 21 eight rebounds and seven Southwest Division and owns assists. of his 27 points after halftime, Dallas 88, Houston 72 assists to help the Memphis the best reeord in the Western and the New Jersey Nets broke Dirk Nowitzki scored 28 Grizzlies beat the Indiana Conference. Utah 107, Phoenix 99 open a tight game in the fourth points and the Dallas Paeers Tuesday night. Derek Fisher seored 27 Andrei Kirilenko had 22 quarter, beating the Maverieks harassed Yao Ming Six players seored in double points to lead the Warriors, points, a eareer-high ·18 Washington Wizards on into his worst game in a month figures for the Grizzlies, who who have lost 15 of 17 road rebounds and bloeked four Tuesday night for their sixth in vietory over the Houston won their fourth straight game. games. shots in the seeond half as the consecutive vietory. Rockets on Tuesday night. Memphis inereased its lead to Spurs eoaeh Gregg Popovieh Utah Jazz rallied from a 15­
Jefl'erson shot 11-for-15 over­The Mavericks rebounded double digits in the seeond drew two quiek teehnieal fouls point defieit to beat the all, ineluding 4-for-4 in the from an 11-point loss in New quarter and led 84-60 after and was ejeeted by referee Phoenix Suns Tuesday night. final period when New Jersey Jersey and a slow start to three quarters. Scott Foster for arguing and Deron Williams finished with outseored Washington 41-30. break the game open in the Jeff Foster and Anthony leaving the bench area 4:54 17 points and 11 assists and That's the most points the second quarter. They were Johnson eaeh seored 15 points into the seeond half. Foster Carlos Boozer and Mehmet Wizards have allowed in a hardly challenged again, easily for the Paeers, who had only also ealled a teehnieal on Okur also had double-doubles quarter this season. capping a season sweep over a three points in the first 8 min­Dunean, whieh led to a 63-58 for the Jazz, who avoided a 
Vince Carter seored 28 points team that took them seven utes of the fourth quarter. Peja lead for-the Warriors with 5:59 season sweep by the Suns. -topping 20 for the 11th games in the first round of last Stojakovie and David Harrison left in the third quarter. Steve Nash had 20 points and game in a row -while Jason year's playoffs. had 13 points and 11 rebounds 10 assists to lead the Suns. Kidd had 14 points, nine assists Dallas won for the fourth apieee. Sacramento 105, Seattle 96 Phoenix was just 12-for-46 and seven rebounds in his time in five games to remain no The Grizzlies dosed out the Ron Artest seored a season­from the noor in the second matehup with Washington's worse than a half-game behind first half with an 8-0 run to high 34 points and the half and lost consecutive games All-Star point guard, Gilbert San Antonio for the best record take a 50-36 lead at the break. Sacramento Kings beat the for the first time in almost two Arenas. in the Western Conference. The Gasol, who had 10 points in the Seattle SuperSonics Tuesday months. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 F.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CL.ASSIFIEDS 


NOTICES 
FOUND: Bracelet between the library and Malloy Hall on Wednesday, 3/8106. Call 631·7085 to identify and claim. 
WANTED 
Summer Camp Counselor for chil­dren w/disabilities. Must have strong work ethic and be interested in making a difference in the life of a child. 
$7-$11 hr., 35 hr/wk, summer only. 5 sites in Summit County, Ohio. Must enjoy outdoor activities. Visit www.akroncyo.org to down­load an application from the Job Opportunities link. EOE 

FoR SALE 
4 bdrm/2bth newly remodeled house near campus. $87.000. 220­8666. 
4 bdrm/2bth newly remodeled house near campus. $87,000. 220­8666. 
FoR RENT 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED­
ROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 
3.4,5.6 bedroom homes. Web site:mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary 574-993-2208 or grooms@ourweb­spot.net 
Two story house completely remod­eled 2003. Ready for immediate occupancy or next school year. Off street parking includes motion sen­sor light for security. Four individu­ally locked bedrooms. central sta­tion monitored security system, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student housing. Laundromat next door, basement available for storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc., new furnace and central air, new kitchen including new stove and refrigerator, large living room for TV or entertaining, free trash removal. Call 289-4071. 
Villa, on water. ND-SMC, All Rooms available for NO Home Games. Graduation Weekend. 2 Bedrooms, Family Room, Bistro Bar 1 Bath Room. $250/night per room. Call 574-257-0158. 

Furnished 4BR house near NO. 
ADT,air,laundry,dishwash,base­
ment,yrd. 287-4961. 
515 St.Joe: 7 bdrm,area of student 
rentals, $1200/mo. 574-250-7653 
1-7 bdrm. homes starting@ $200/student, 24-hr.maint.,free pool tables, 1st mo. free. Call 574-250­7653 or visit bluegoldrentals.com 
4 bdrm/2 bth house near campus. $1350. 220-8666. 
TICKETS 

O.A.R. tix first 3 rows & James Taylor. Call 272-7233. 
TOP DOLLAR PAID FOR YOUR FOOTBALL SEASON TIX. PLEASE CALL 277-1659. 
PERSONAL 

WANTED: Golden boy who looks 
like an angel but can fiddle like a 
demon. Wish to make glorious 
music together. -0 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 
not go it alone. 

If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.l. Gude, CSC at 
631-7819. 

For more information, see our bi­weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
The Carriage House Dining Room is now accepting reservations for our annual Gala Graduation Event with dinners served Friday, May 19; Saturday, May 20 & Sunday, May 21, 2006. Call (574)272-9220. 
Individuals/Clubs: Sell I Love the Irish Flags Great for Dorms & activi­ties! Contact: Shamrock@ilovetheirish.com or 808 943-8524. www.ILoveThelrish.com 
I think Bigfoot is blurry, that's the problem. It's not the photographer's fault. Bigfoot is blurry. And that's extra scary to me, because there's a large, out-of-focus monster roam­ing the countryside. "Run. He's fuzzy. Get outta here.' 
I had a stick of Carefree gum, but it didn't work. I felt pretty good while I was blowing that bubble, but as soon as the gum lost its flavor, r was back to pondering my mortality. 
What the Deuce? Air Pump and WC. Nat's what I'm talking about. 
Upside down stool 

-----------~---------~-----­
---------------------------------------., 
OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, March 22, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S wrru:: SERVICES page 17 

NBA Standings 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pet GB 
New Jersey 37·28 .569 Philadelphia 31-35 .470 6.5 Bnstnn 28·40 .412 10.5 Tnronto 24-42 .364 13.5 New York 19-46 .292 18 
Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team record pet. GB 
Detroit 53-13 .803 Cleveland 38·29 .567 15.5 Indiana 33·31 .516 19 Milwaukee 34-33 .507 19.5 Chicago 29·38 .433 24.5 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team rflcord pet. GB 
Miami 45·21 .682 Washington 34-31 .523 10.5 Orlando 24-42 .364 21 Atlanta 21-44 .323 23.5 Charlotte 18-49 .269 27.5 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pet. GB 
Denver 38-30 .559 Utah 31·35 .470 6 Minnesota 27·39 .409 10 Seattle 26·39 .400 10.5 Portland 20·47 .299 17.5 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
tHam record pet. GB 
Phoenix 45·20 .692 LA Clippers 39·26 .600 6 LA lakers 35-34 .507 12 Sacramento 33·33 .500 12.5 Golden State 28·37 .431 17 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
team record pet. GB 
San Antonio 52·14 .788 Dallas 52·15 .116 0.5 Memphis 37-29 .561 15 New Orleans 31·33 .484 20 Houston 29-38 .433 23.5 
NCAA Men's Lacrosse GeicojSTX Coaches Poll 
team record previous 

1 Johns Hopkins 12·0 1 2 Duke 14-2 2 3 Navy 11-3 4 4 Maryland 9-5 6 5 Cornell 10·2 3 6 Virginia 9·3 5 7 Massachusetts 12·2 8 8 Georgetown 9-4 7 9 Syracuse 7·5 9 10 Towson 11-4 11 11 Penn State 9·5 15 12 Army 11·5 10 13 Albany 10·5 T17 14 Dartmouth 8·4 13 15 Fairfield 11-4 T17 16 Delaware 11·5 16 17 Bucknell 8-5 14 18 Denver 9·5 12 19 NOTRE DAME 7-4 NR 20 Hofstra 8·8 19 
around the dial 
NBA 

Miami at Detroit, 8 p.m., ESPN Sacramento at Lakers, 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 

Associated Press 
The Indianapolis Colts are switching from the NFL's most accurate kick­er to the best in the clutch . 
Taking a key piece from its rival New England, Indianapolis agreed in principle to a deal with Adam Vinatieri, a person close to the Colts said Tuesday night. Vinatieri, who twice hit winning kicks in the Super Bowl for the Patriots, replaces former Pro Bowl kicker Mike Vanderjagt. 
Terms of the deal were not immediately available. The source confirmed the signing with. the AP on 
condition of anonymity because an official announcement had not yet been made. Messages left with the Patriots and agents for Vinatieri by The Associated Press were not immediately returned Tuesday night. 
The Patriots allowed Vinatieri to test free agency r-ather than put­ting a franchise designa­tion on him, which would have cost the team $3 mil­lion next season. 
"It just didn't feel like the right thing to do," coach Bill Belichick said last week at the NFL Combine in Indianapolis. "We considered all our options and decided not to 
IN BRIEF 
Iowa State hires McDermott 

as new hoops coach 
AMES, Iowa -Northern Iowa coach Greg McDermott was hired Tuesday by Iowa State, jumping from the Missouri Valley Conference to the Big 12 after three straight NCAA tournament appear­ances with the Panthers. 
McDermott, 41, was at Northern Iowa for five season. Before his arrival in 2001, Northern Iowa had made one appearance in the Division I NCAA tournament. 
McDermott replaces Wayne Morgan, who was fired Friday after the Cyclones missed the postseason with a 16-14 record. The terms of McDermott's contract were not immediately available. 
Iowa State athletic director Jamie Pollard interviewed two candidates: Wisconsin-Milwaukee's Rob Jeter and McDermott. 
McDermott is a native of Cascade, Iowa, and played at Northern Iowa. 
tag anybody." 
Vinatieri, 33, had been named the team's fran­chise player twice, includ­ing last year, when he was paid $2.5 million. 
Vanderjagt spent all eight of his NFL seasons with the Colts after play­ing in the Canadian Football League. He scored a franchise record 995 points and made 217 career field goals in 248 attempts, the highest accuracy rate (87.5) in league history. 
In 2003, Vanderjagt made all 37 of his field goal attempts, all 46 of his extra point attempts and set the NFL record by extending his consecutive field goals streak to 42. 
But twice in his career he missed critical field goals in the playoffs. In January, he badly missed a 46-yarder in the closing seconds, which would have forced overtime with eventual Super Bowl champion Pittsburgh. 
At Miami, in January 2000, he missed a 49­yarder wide right that would have won the game and sent the Colts into the second round of the play­offs. 
Team president Bill Polian acknowledged last month it was unlikely the Colts would re-sign Vanderjagt, an unrestrict­ed free agent. 
Abraham sent to Falcons 
in three team trade 
NEW YORK -John Abraham finally got what he wanted Tuesday night when the Jets traded the Pro Bowl defensive end to the Atlanta Falcons in a three-way deal with Denvor. 
The Broncos had to get involved for the much-anticipated trade to finally take place. Denver and Atlanta swapped No. 1 picks, with the Broncos getting the 15th overall selection and the Falcons getting pick 29. Then the Falcons sent that pick to the Jets in exchange for Abraham, the player's agent told The Associated Press. 
Atlanta also got middle-round picks in 2006 and 2007. 
The Jets had placed the franchise tag on Abraham for the second straight year. Both sides made it clear they wanted to part ways. 
Last week, the Jets and Falcons started working on a trade, but Atlanta was only willing to give up a second-round pick. 
Germaf!Y anxious to take on the U.S. 
DORTMUND, Germany (AP) -It's only an exhibition soccer match, with the undermanned United States squad as the opponent. 
Still, Germany is filled with angst. 
German fans, stinging from a 4-1 loss to Italy, are antsy heading into Wednesday's World Cup warmup against the Americans. So Germany coach Juergen Klinsmann and his players -who have been heavily criticized on several fronts -are treating the game in bumblebee-colored Signal Iduna Park as more than a prep match. 
"It's a very important game for us," said German forward Michael Ballack, who scored the goal that eliminated the United States from the 2002 tournament. "It's a deci­sive game for our confidence, for the mood in the team." 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, March 22, 2006 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
Eagles oust first No.1 seed in second round of tourna111ent 
Dorsey hits six three­pointers, nzatches BC record irz NCAA play 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE. Ind. ­
Boston College made Ohio Stall~ 
l.he first No. I s1wd to exit the 
NCAA wonwn's tournament. 
Kindyll Dorsey set a school record for an NCM tournament game by hitting six :~-pointnrs and finished with 24 points. loading 1d11:hth-seeded Boston CollegP to a 79-h<J second­round upset of top-semlnd Ohio State. 
It was the biggest surprise of the tournanwnt as the Buckeyes (29-3). a much-dPbatml pkk for the No. I snml. became the first top-seed to lose in the second round since Texas Tech in 1998. 
Despite getting 21 points and seven rebounds from Big Ten player of the year Jessica I>av1mport. Ohio Statn fell one win short of tying the school n~cord for wins in a s1mson. 
Tlw Big Ten n~gular-season and tournanwnt champs also saw the nation's longest win­ning streak end at 20 in the same venue the Buckeyes have endurml much misery over the past 12 years-Mackny Anma. 
Georgia 73, Hartford 54 
Shnrill Baker scon•d 26 points and Tasha llurnphrey had 24, helr1ing Cnorgia blow tlw game opon in the second half to del'nat llartford Tuesday night in the socond round of thn Bridgeport rogional. 
llurnphrey had 17 rebounds for No. :l seed (;eorgia (23-8), whieh readwd the round of 16 for tlw 16th time in 23 NCAA appearances. 
The Bulldogs will face either second-snndnd Connecticut or No. 7 seed Virginia Tech, who playod lal.nr Tuesday. 
The inside-outside combina­tion of the 6-foot-3 Humphrey and the 5-8 Baker was too much for No. 11 semi Hartford (27-4), which had upset No. 6 seed Temple Sunday for the 11rst NCAA tournament win in 
sdwol history. Erica Bevt~rly led the Hawks with 13 points. 
Tennessee 66 
George Washington 53 
Candace Parker showed she 
doesn't have to dunk to be daz­
zling, and Tennessee is heading 
to the regional semifinals for 
the 25th straight year. 
Shanna Zolman scored 19 points and Parker had 15, and the No. 6 Lady Vols started fast and led throughout in victory over George Washington on Tuesday night. 
Tnnnessee advanced to the semifinals of the Cleveland Hegional against Hutgers or TCU. 
The Lady Vols (30-4) also reached 30 victories for the 16th time in Pat Summitt's 32 years as coach, and looked like contendnrs for a seventh national championship. 
Purdue 61, UCLA 54 
UCLA's high-scoring oiTens1~ couldn't product' when it mat­tered most. 
Tlw Bruins were held to onn point in thnlinal 7:21 as Purdue dnfiHttnd UCLA in tho sneond round of tlw NCAA women's tournament on Tuesday night. 
UCLA, ran ked in the top I 0 

nationally in scoring offense, set a season low in points and tied a season low by shooting 
32.3 percent from the field. 
Its self-titled triple threat backcourt of Noelle Quinn, Nikki Blue and Lisa Willis shot a combined 16-for-49 as Purdue snapped the Bruins' six­game winning streak. 
Maryland 81, St. John's 74 
Crystal Langhorne and Maryland couldn't shake St. John's until the limtl minutes of th11 ganw. 
Langhorne capp11d a 30-point effort with two late inside bas­kets and St. John's went cold from the l'ield as the second­seeded Terps defeated No. 7 sned St .John's Tuesday night in the seeond round of the NCAA tournanwnt. 
The Terps (30-4) advanced to the regional semifinals after losing in the second round the previous two seasons thanks in large part to Langhorne, who also had nine rebounds. Maryland will play defending ehampion Baylor in the Albuquerque Regional. 
Rutgers 82, TCU 48 
Cappie Pondexter scored 24 points to lead Hutgers to victory over TCU in the second round of the Clev(dand Hegional on Tuesday night. 
Malee Ajavon led four other playnrs in double ligures with 18 points and also had 13 assists for No. 3 seed Hutgers (27-4), which will face Tennessee on Sunday. 
The second-seeded Vols, who defeated George Washington earlier Tuesday, beat Hutgers by 10 points in last year's regional final in Philadelphia. 
Hutgers' win was the 750th for coach C. Vivian Stringer in her l,OOOth game spanning 34 years at Cheyney State, Iowa and Hutgnrs. 
Duke 85, USC 51 
If a second consecutive blowout win is any indication, No. 4 Duke seems to have solved any eonlidence issues it brought to the postseason. 
Alison Bales scored a eareer­high 22 points and blocked six against Southern California, on Connecticut 79 The win sends the Huskies their way to victory in the see­Virginia Tech 56 (31-4) into the regional semifi­ond round of the women's Connecticut's star seniors nals for a 14th straight season. NCAA tournament. came up big to get the Huskies UConn stands a good shot at 
Monique Currie added 14 back to the NCAA regional getting to a ninth Final Four points, nine rebounds and four semifinals in a familiar plaee: because the II uskins will play assists for Duke, and fellow back in their home state. their next game, against senior Mistie Williams had nine Ann Strother had 22 points Georgia, in Bridgeport. Conn., points and eight rebounds. Both and six 3-pointers, and Barbara about a 90-minute drive from rested plenty. Turner dominated inside with the UConn campus in Storrs. 
Eshaya Murphy led Southern 18 points and 16 rebounds as UConn led by double digits for Cal with 16 points and Chloe the second-seeded Huskies most of the game thanks to a Kerr had 13. The Women of routed No. 7 seeded Virginia pivotal 20-2 run in thn first hall' Troy shot just 30 pereent and Tech 79-56 on Tuesday night in that included three 3-pointers, missed 17 of their 20 3-point the second round of the NCAA and seven turnovers by Virginia attempts. tournament. Tech. 
Wednesday, March 22 
TIIEOLOGY ON TAP 
Fr. Mark 
Doing the 
Poorn1::u1., C1 .S.C~ 
Right Thing
l"hc l'rnidcnt of Stutit•m :1/,(mn·, Prof ol rih'olof!;y 
What is the role of faith 
Fr. Poorman in helping us Answers make YOUR decisions? Questions 
Conscience Formation and Moral Decision Making 
More to 

Get tapped in at legends
Come on 

Doof"S Open at 9:30pm,
3129 

Speaker star1s-10:00pm 
C-M


Wednesday, March 22, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
QtiJ 
College of Arts and Letters University of Notre Dame 
Invites Nominations for the 
Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean of the college of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters f:C1culty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to sub1uit nomination letters for this year's award to: 
Stuart Greene A'isociate Dean tor Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline l\Ionday, 10 April 2006 
WE'VE GOT THE 
TURTLE CREEK · APARTMENTS 

tremely Close to Campus citing Renovations Inside &Out traordinary Rents Start At $560i 



888-278-8124 

GET GEARED UP! We're giving away anew ox 360 
Go Homet"Go Wireless""Go Live! 
l~~Hoof!J: 
M~ F: g.:nn JW-€.:C<O PM 
~;q: IO:OOAM-S:ODPM 
~~~ 1:00 Pft.S:OO F'¥ 

' ..,.f.:.? www.campuscribs.net 
&;: tf,, •,,,,.". '\.-a;.r 

SMC GOLF 
Defending conference cha111ps tee off season 
Mattia caps with final round 74, places 20th overall in tournament 
By BECKI DORNER Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's golf team shot a final round 339 to fin­ish 13th this past weekend at the Shamrock Invitational hosted by Winthrop University. 
The tourney, which took place at the Par 72, 5842 yard Tega Cay Country Club in South Carolina, was the first of six spring events for the Belles, who won the 2005 MIAA championship during the fall season with an aver­age of 342.6 and placed sixth in last year's NCAA Championships. 
Elon's Samantha Widmer shot an indi­vidual best 
second team as well. 
Despite a below average result for the team based on past performances, Hamilton acknowledged the strength of the rest of the field. 
"The competition level was high," Hamilton said, noting that quite a few of the teams were in Division I. "The golf course was very penal. Once we got comfortable and fig­ured out how to attack the cou.~se we played much bet­ter. 
One individual who dis­played marked improvement over the course of the tourna­ment was Bellino, whose 81 on the third day earned her 50th place -the second high­est finish for the Belles. 
The Belles' next contest is a dual meet versus Northern Kentucky this weekend at NKU's home track Perry Park Golf Course, a long par 72. 
Hamilton stressed the need 
for the team 
to work on 

228 (+12} in its short
"[Mattia,s performance 
the 72-player game, espe­
field, leading was] the finest round I cially green­Elon to the have ever seen a Saint side play. overall team This is one
Mary,s player have when 
victory with aspect of 
a combined considering the conditions their game score of 934 and time ofyear.,, that the (+70). Belles have The Belles' not been 
Mark Hamilton
M e g a n able to work Mattia shot a Saint Mary's head coach on thus far 
team best 243 with rounds of 82, 87 and a low round of two­over par 7 4 to finish tied for 20th in the three-round event. 
"[Mattia's performance was] the finest round I have ever seen a Saint Mary's player have when considering the conditions and time of year," coach Mark Hamilton said. 
Mattia was named MVP of the entire MIAA League in the fall for her third all-confer­ence appointment. 
Nicole Bellino, Kirsten Fantom and Katie O'Brien were named to the all-MIAA 
du(~ to the 
recent cold 
weather. 

Mattia, one of four graduat­ing seniors joined by Bellino. Fantom and McQueen, emphasized the need for the team to have the "confidence to go out and perform the way we know that we can." 
The seniors hope that confi­dence helps them perform well enough to earn the Belles' fourth consecutive berth to the May NCAA Championships in Orlando. 
Contact Becki Domer at rdomerl@nd.edu 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs (Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. A.fL. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Dick Warner, C.S.C., at 1-9704 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at LaffertyJ@nd.edu 
for more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ 

-;.· 

..---------------------~-------------------------------~------­
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS 
the press conferences. different for a thing like a with The Observer. "I think you ''I'm not sure we think that press conference," Heisler said. have to stay ahead of the
Media 

people should just be able to "That's kind of a Notre Dame curve." continued from page 24 come in and copy and essen­event; it's a Notre Dame athlet­Unlike Notre Dame and sev­
tially duplicate any sort of a ic event. ... There may be some eral other schools, however, new restrictions for media cov­press conference and just rights issues in these things Mossman said Oklahoma does ering Notre Dame sports. throw it up [on the Internet)," that nobody ever really thought not view recruiting Web sites in 
Notre Dame assistant athletic Heisler said. "There ought to of before." the same light as traditional director John Heisler called the be some journalism involved He said full video of one-on­print, television and radio policy change part of a larger here." one interviews with players media. plan to increase the quality and The athletic department and coaches are exempt from Justin Dougherty, director of traflic of Notre Dame's official released notice to media Jan. the new limitations. sports information at the athletics Web site. 31 -prior to national signing Mike Frank, who runs University of Wisconsin said 
But Jack Freeman, publisher day -that there would be new IrishEyes.com, the first site to Wisconsin elassifies the of lrishlllustrated.eom, saw the restrictions on the ability of offer video downloads of press recruiting Web sites in the policy change difTerently. recruiting Web sites and tradi­conferences in 2004, said he same category as newspapers 
"Their issue is that ... Irish tional media outlets to repro­understands where the and television stations. Illustrated is making money by duce videos and transcripts of University is coming from, as "Those organizations cover showing this, and [Notre Dame I Irish press conferences. press conference clips have our football programs on a reg­wants to make money by show­Tuesday's annual spring foot­become a staple in sports jour­ular basis, they cover our home ing this, too," Freeman said. ball media day was the first nalism and on recruiting Web games, travel [to away games), 
On both lrishlllustrated.eom major press event since nation­sites. and interview our players," and lrishEyPs.com, a member al signing day. "I think like everybody, Dougherty said. "I view them of the Scout.com recruiting "Any media entity collecting you're a little disappointed; but as a legitimate media outlet in network. most videos are limit­any sort of video or audio at the same time, I fully under­that regard." ed to only those users who pay materials ... from University of stand why they did it," Frank Dougherty said no television a monthly or annual fee. Notre Dame Athletics press said. "I tend to stations or Web 
Subscrib1~rs to both conference events may use that agree with him "Any media entity sites have lrishlllustrated.eom and material only within a seven­[on e~te?ding collecting any sort ofvideo attempted to lrishEyes.com pay $1JIJ.IJ5 a day period following the event record and dis­
the prmciple of or audio materials ... firom 
year or $9.95 a month. ... with a limitation of up to the 3-mlllute tribute entire Freeman said the athletic three minutes in length from rule to the University ofNotre Dame press confer­department was trying to any single event," the Jan. 31 press confer-Athletics press conference ences, but he direct traffk away from his and statement said. expects that
en~esl. events may use that
other Web sites toward tlw olli­Freeman saw might change dal Notre Dame site (und.com), Response the issue differ-material only within a in the future. which oiTors viewers an "All­The statement sparked criti­ently. seven-day period "It hasn't Access Pass" for $6.95 a month cism and concern among mem­been an issue
. ".PriorY) th~s following the event ... 
that allows subscribers live bers of the Internet media who change m poh-. h 1. . . if here," he said. streaming video and audio of cover the press conferences, cy, they were wlt a lmltatwn o up to "The conversa-Notre Dame sporting events. who feel their subscribers will selling access three minutes in length tion hasn't At issue speeifically is the miss out on important and rel­even taken
to ··· sportin?, from any single event." 
enwrgence of recruiting Web evant information. events, ~ place." sitos that record entire press "We're disappointed that Freeman said, Wisconsin's conferences and offer them to they're not allowing all their referring to the Notre Dame athletic situation is subscribers on the lntf~rnet, fans to watch [thn press confer­"All Access department statement similar to that Heisler said. Now, those same ence's) on our site," said Pass" on of Boston sites will be limited to three Freeman, whose site began und.com that College. Chris minutes of "highlights" of all uploading Weis' press confer­allows subscribers to watch Cameron, associate athletics Notre Dame athletics press ences in 2005. "The second live streams of Irish sports director for media relations at conferences, ineluding Weis' thing is, it sort of strikes me as games in eonjunction with Boston College, said the issue press conferences that occur a bad PH move on Notre College Sports Television has not arisen there either and three times per Wf~ek during Dame's part because they're Network. "Now they're taking a that his staff has not discussed football season. limiting putting out one of their press conference to essentially the possible ramifications of 
Heisler said the move was greatest spokesman, Charlie a news gathering event. And I Web sites redistributing entire less about public relations in Weis, in front of recruits and think that's what the problem press conferences. regard to potential recruits and fans on our site." is.... I think on one hand limit­"The Internet has created the recruiting sites and more But if the video is available ing access to a sporting event is both new opportunities and about the University's rights to on und.com, as Heisler said fine obviously once the policy is challenges for everyone in 
may happen, Notre Dame will in place, but a news event or a intercollegiate athletics," be able to profit from the video press conference, I can't agree Cameron said in an e-mail. as well as offering it to Irish with applying the same logic." ''I'm sure the Notre Dame staff fans. Heisler said the athletic has been challenged more than Heisler said the University department focused on the most. We all must re-evaluate
Offering 

likely will not enforce the competition between und.com our priorities and policies from
atto.rdtlble 

seven-day rule, but it specifi­and other Web sites when mak­time to time. The ND staff has
flying lessons 

cally wants to apply the rules ing the decision to do what they feel is in the
from South Bend 
Regfc,nal Alrpon 

governing the broadcast rights "With these other events, best interest of the program." television stations withhold to there's a commodity of some At Southern California, the Notre Dame press conferences. sort," Heisler said. "We're run­athletic department has not 
"Our feeling is in the same ning a Web site as well, so we had to deal with recruiting Web sense NBC has some rights to would like to drive traffie sites recording video of press our football games in the video there. Our feeling is, particu­conferences, but sports infor­end, I don't know if that's any larly in terms of a press confer­mation director Tim Tessalone 
ence, ... everybody is welcome said the school has a general to cover it, but if you want to policy in place. see the full-blown transcription "With the institutional Web or if you want to watch the sites and premium services, a whole thing, then our site lot of the content that goes up ought to be the place to find there is press conference that." [material]." Tessalone said. 
Frank said the athletic Whereas Notre Dame's new department is probably imple­policy prohibits re-broadcast­menting a policy that many ing but allows for live feeds schools eventually will. with the written consent of the 
"Notre Dame is probably just athletic department, Tessalone thinking ahead of the curve on said USC might ban both. l-Ie this, and pretty soon you're said Southern California often going to see [most other col­has small portions of football leges] doing something very, press conferences broadcast very similar -because [press live on channels run by ESPN, conference video! is a product, but the issue of full broadcasts and it's a good product." has not arisen. 
· "If someone wanted to do the Precedence whole press conference Jive, I 
Heisler said he did not know think we would have an issue of other schools that had a sim­with that," he said. "That's why ilar policy but figured many we put it up on our Web site on
aarc•21.2111 
would follow suit. a live stream." Kenny Mossman, associate Freeman said he worries that 
athletic director for communi­Notre Dame's policy may cations at Oklahoma, said that become the standard across his department has limited the NCAA.
Center-what recruiting Web sites can "I think if Notre Dame is suc­and cannot reproduce from cessful in generating revenues press conferences for over a from this, people will jump on year. it," he said. 
"Like Notre Dame, we need Tessalone did not say if Notre to protect our media rights," he Dame's case would be used as said in a telephone interview a precedent, but he did predict 
5:30p.m. 
Wednesday, March 22, 2006 
other universities to institute 
similar policies. 
"What Notre Dame is doing 
makes perfect sense," he said. 
"What Notre Dame is doing is 
what I expect a lot of places to 
do in the future. 
Decision-making process 
Freeman said he agreed and 
worried that other schools will 
follow suit because of his 
doubts about the legal logic 
behind the policy change. 
Heisler said the athletic 
department did not consult 
with University lawyers specifi­
cally about this issue but based 
its decision on past discussions 
between colleges and the legal 
field over the issue of protected 
content. 
"There's an awful lot of peo­
ple who are more experts from 
the legal end and the rights 
end that are sort of telling 
institutions that historically we 
haven't done a good enough 

job at protecting our own 
rights to certain things," he 
said . 
Heisler said Notre Dame has 
worked mainly with Collegiate 
Images, a Florida-based com­
pany whose objective is to 
beeome a elearinghouse of 
photographs and video from 
collegiate athletic events, in 
regard to issues of legality and 
rights. 

"They have helped us exten­sively as far as some of the lan­guage [we use I to make it clear what ability you have to use material that you obtain at a game," Heisler said. "We wrote it, and we ran it past them just to ask for some advice. It was more a matter of just trying to set the table and figure out how we can work this out." 
Going forward 
For IrishEyes.com, Frank said the policy changes have had no adverse effect on his relationship with the athletic department. 
"I like to think I have a good relationship with Notre Dame," he said. "On my end, as far as my thoughts are on it, yeah, I think we have an excellent relationship." 
Frank said he will continue to produce full video of player interviews and clips from spring practices, as well as abridged versions of the press conferences. 
"I don't think it's every opportunity for us that's being taken away; it's mainly just those press conferences," he said. "We'll also be able to videotape our interviews we have with players, and so as long as we are able to do some of those things, I think that's a good thing." 
Heisler said those videos are not being restricted because the athletic. department was mainly concerned with the unabridged nature of the press conference videos. 
"I think we're looking at mostly the large settings, espe­cially with Charlie Weis," Heisler said. "Those are the things we were seeing pop up in their entirety. 
"These guys who are doing a one-on-one interview with somebody, we're not worried about that. That's their own enterprise." 
Though he disagrees with the policy, Freeman said Irishlllustrated.com will contin­ue to work in good spirit with the athletic department. 
"We've expressed concerns, and we understand the policy," Freeman said. "We fully intend, of course to go along with those policies." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Wednesday, March 22, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish squad unlucky in NCAAs 
Swimmers battle injuries and tough competition in tournament 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 
There was no extra luck for the Irish on St. Patrick's Day when they competed in the NCAA championships held in Athens, Ga. from March 16-18. 
On the famed Irish holiday, two of the team's three swimmers who qualified for the championships, junior Katie Carroll and freshman Claire Hutchinson, fell victim to a virus that spread throughout multiple teams at the tournament. It couldn't have come at a worse time for Notre Dame. 
Carroll was forced to swim two of her three events, including her best event ­the 400-meter IM -under the influence of the virus. Carroll was a favorite to earn All-America honors in the 400-meter IM and with good reason as she held the fifth seeded time in prelimi­naries. The effect of the sick­ness was obvious, however, as Carroll's final time was over 16 seconds slower than her preliminary time, drop­ping her all the way to 38th place. 
"To train all year for one event and then get so sick the night before was really frustrating," Carroll said. "It was frustrating knowing that going into the event I would­n't be abiP to perform at my best. It was tough not just for me, but it was tough because I didn't represent the school as best I could." 
Carroll did not walk away from the evPnt empty hand­ed ·as she garnered All­America honorable mention honors, her third straight year to earn at least All­America honorable mention. Thursday evening, Carroll finished the 200-meter IM in 13th place with a time of 2:00.48, the fastest time in school history on a yard­measured course. Carroll also earned All-America honors in the 200-meter IM when she finished in 14th place in 2005 and ninth place in 2004. 
Hutchinson, competing in her first ever NCAA champi­onships, was also forced to swim two of her three events after she got sick. After fin­ishing 38th in the 500-meter freestyle on Thursday evening with a time of 4:51.91, only .16 seconds behind her season best, Hutchinson competed in both the 400-meter IM and 1,650­meter freestyle while under the weather. Hutchinson, however, did not let the virus stop her from posting the sixth fastest time in school history in the 1,650-meter freestyle as she took 25th place with a time of 16:34.92. 
"The virus affected the girls tremendously," coach Carrie Nixon said. "Katie had a shot to win the whole thing, and for her to come out 13 seconds slower is dev­astating especially because her focus all year has been on that event. As for Claire, for her to turn around on Saturday [in the 1,650-meter freestyle] and swim so well was amazing." 
Although it was clear that the virus affected Carroll and Hutchinson's perform­ance, both swimmers showed their desire and toughness just by competing on Friday and Saturday. After spending Friday after­noon in the hospital. the two swimmers returned Friday evening to finish their events. Carroll and Hutchinson were the only swimmers affected by the virus to get in the pool on Friday and Saturday. 
"Tough is the perfect word to describe what they did, and it really shows the quali­ty of their character," Nixon said. "It was a very inspiring thing, and it got a lot of com­pliments from other coaches and swimmers." 
Julia Quinn, the only Irish swimmer not affected by the virus, turned in an impres­sive performance as she fin­ished in 20th place in the 200-meter breast stroke with a time of 2:15.24. Her time was the seventh fastest for the event in school history and just off her season best time of 2:14.27. Quinn also finished in 33rd in the 100­meter breast stroke with a time of 1:03.63. 
. Although Notre Dame was hoping for a better perform­ance at last week's NCAA championships, they walk away from it knowing they can improve and are moti­vated to show just that. 
"We're capable of so much more than we showed last weekend," Carroll said. "I think we're going to show a lot of people that next year." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

Lacrosse 
continued from page 24 
Wildcat standouts included 
Lindsey Munday, who had 
two goals and five assists, Aly 
Josephs, who scored six 
goals, and Kristen Kjellman, 
who added four goals and 
two assists for Northwestern. 
The goalies on both sides of the ball, Irish keeper Carol Dixon and the Wildcats' Morgan Lathrop, had stellar performances, with 12 and six saves, respectively. 
Senior attack Crysti Foote extended her scoring streak with four goals. 
"I know this is my final year to play," Foote said. "I have been more confident and 
.being a captain, I know that my teammates are always looking to me to make plays and get the team going, so I have a lot more responsibility [this year). Basically, I have been taking more risks and just letting the game come to me." 
Despite their loss to the Wildcats Sunday, Notre Dame fared well in its previous two contests against James Madison and · Loyola Maryland. 
The Irish showed physical and mental vitality with their March 12 win over No. 16 James Madison as they ral­lied in the final minutes of the game to secure a 12-11 win. Foote scored three cru­cial second half goals against the Dukes. 
The 13-9 victory over No. 19 Loyola Maryland March 14 was less harrowing, as the Irish swept through the Greyhounds in front of a crowd of 1,492 at CSTV's annual "Spring Fling" tourna­ment. Caitlin McKinney led the Irish assault with three goals and two assists. Freshman Jilllan Byers tal­lied three goals in the con­test. 
"It was awesome, " Byers said after the game. "I mean, to play the way we did, with such heart in front of two thousand people and on TV, it was just a great way to end our week in Florida." 
The Irish face Canisuius on Saturday at 1 p.m. at home. 
Contact Chris Williams at cwillll@nd.edu 

Annoz1ncements  CJnb•ersity of Notr.•Dame  
Your Name  
l(mr Degree  
Phone, mail orfax orders:  
Josten.\·  
Attn: PGA Order Prm~essing  
148 E. Broadwt~y  
Owatoml(l, MN .55060  
1-lW0-854-7-16-1  

r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednes·day, March 22, 2006 

Personalized 
Notre Dame Grad11ation 


F11.x l-800-65S-S725 
Place order·s in person on: 
www.Jostens.cam 
Tuesday and Wednesday, March 21 and 22 LaFortune Student Center Sorin Room 9:00 a.m. -4:30 p.m. 


Call Ken a 
Baseball 
continued from page 24 
dipped into the twenties and 
many of the 1,842 fans who 
braved the cold had left early. 
"The conditions were really diffieult for both teams to play in," Mainieri said. "It was real­ly eold and windy out there." 
Notre Dame struek first, seor­ing a run in the bottom half of the first inning. First baseman and lead-ofT hitter Craig Cooper doubled to right center field, moved to third on a sacrifice bunt 15y design a ted hitter Danny Dressman and scornd on a wild pitch by Wright State starter Erieh Sehanz. 
The lead would not last. The Haiders scored three runs in the top of the second, all with two outs. With one out, Korpi walked eenterfielder John Kopilchaek, then struck out shortstop Justin Parker. First baseman Jeremy Hamilton then doublnd to left, where Irish outfielder Matt Bransfield misplayed the ball and allowed Kopilchack to score from first. 
"When there's a runner on first base and two outs, your outfielder's only job is to keep the runner from scoring from first on an extra base hit," Mainieri said of the play. "lie got to the ball okay, but then he just dropped it. Maybe his hands were cold." 
J.p,ftfielder Justin Wilson drove in Hamilton with a sin­gle, then stole seeond and scored on a single by seeond baseman Hoss Ocder to increase the lnad to 3-1 . 
Football 
continued from page 24 
Ac;; a coaching stafl' and a<> a team, 
we have to do a much better job of 
playing to our strengths and mini­
mizing our weaknesses." 
His final major objective is to fill in lingering questions about the depth chart, made morP compli­cated by several injuries to return­ing players. 
Weis said starting outside line­backer Maurice Crum and reserve linebacker Joe Brockington will see significantly limited repetitions in the spring after each under­went back procedures after last season ended. 
Weis said that while the injuries will limit the depth of the line­backing eorps during the spring, they also open new doors for eval­uating young talent. After senior linebacker starters Corey Mays and Brandon I Ioyte both exhaust­ed their eligibility this fall, Weis said freshmen and sophomores on the defense will have the chance to earn a spot in the starting line­up. 
"I think this is an opportunity for some of those guys that back­ups to make a statement for them­selves," Weis said. "If they don't make a statement for themselves this spring, when the new guys get here, they're going in." 
Notes: 
+ Six starters and two backups will return to Notre Dame next fall for a fifth season, Irish coach Charlie Weis announced Tuesday. 
Defensive tackle Derek Landri, right end Chris Frome and corner­back Mike Hichardson return on the defensive side of the ball, as all three started for the Irish in 2005. 
Frome started six games for Notre Dame before suffering a knee injury in the team's 34-31 loss to USC Oct. 15, 2005. Landri and Richardson started all 12 games for the Irish. 
On offense, Notre Dame's group 
The Haidnrs increased their advantage again in the S(Wenth inning. Third baseman Dan Biedenharn led ofT the inning against Notre Dame reliev(~r Joey Williamson and walked. Then, designated hittor Brian Shoup laid a bunt down tho first base line. Both Williamson and Coopor wont for the ball, leaving l'irst base uncovered and, although second baseman Hoss Brezovsky tried to cover the bag, Williamson's throw ended up bounding into right field. Bieclenharn advaneed to third on the error. 
"We had a miscommunication bntween our first baseman and our pitehcr, which ereated a bad situation," Mainieri said. 
The next batter, rightrinlder Amin Abusafeh. singled. driv­ing in Bindenharn and putting the Raiders up 4-1. 
Tho Irish got a run in the bot­tom of tlw eight on a sacrifice f'ly by Brezovsky that drove in eatehnr Sean Gaston, but wnrP unable to get anything going in the ninth inning against Haider reliever .Jon Smith. 
"lie's n~ally good. There wnn~ a lot of pro scouts hnre to see him. liP pretty much ovnr­matclwd us," Mainieri said of Smith. 
The Irish will bo back in action today at Frank Erk Stadium against Central Miehigan. Freshman David Phelps is oxpected to start for Notre Danw. Thn weather is expectnd to be slightly warmnr, possibly rnachiug tlw low(~r 40s. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
of returnees is highlighted by vet­eran reeeiver Hhema McKnight, who suffered a knee injury in week thrnp, against Michigan State and was awardnd a medical red­shirt season. MeKnight led the Irish in receptions in 2003 and 2004 with 47 and 42 catches, respectively. lie has 103 rncep­tions for 1,370 yards in 38 career games played. 
McKnight is joined by oflensive line starters Bob Morton and Dan Santucci, backup tight end Mareus Freeman and reserve lineman Brian Mattes. 
+ WeLc;; said several Irish players are injured and will see limited repetitions in the spring or be held out of practices altogether. 
Freshman reeeiver D.J. llord had an abdominal surgery and likely will miss all of spring prae­tice, Weis said. 
"He might be baek by the end of the spring," Weis said. "But he's not going to be baek for a while, so I figured I'd just go ahead and list him as a doubtful for the spring." 
Frome's knee injury will keep him out of spring practices, and sophomore reserve linebacker Abdel Banda also suffered a knee injury that will prevent him from practicing. 
Starting left end Victor Abiamiri had a minor knee surgery after the Fiesta Bowl, and Weis said he is "close to 100 percent." 
"I might pull off of him a little bit, but he's ready to go," Weis said of Abiamiri. 
Weis said he will keep offensive lineman John Sullivan out of eon­tact drills after the junior under­went a shoulder operation in the olfseao;;on. 
Sophomore running back Justin Hoskins and freshman cornerback Kyle McCarthy will be limitnd by shoulder injuries, and Mattes ha<> a foot injury that will limit his practice time. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowJer 1 @nd.edu 

Wednesday, March 22, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE and ERIK POWERS 

JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 

CROISSANTWORLD 
ALR\C:l\41, "JO"NN~ :J.­ UNI"'O~UNP...T'E..L'!,  DoNT t-'E..T 11-\'E.. bOI..t>  AN t:l  'IOU  S.I-\OUI..b  Gpo.'{,  
~ouR.  Fli~'SfTu\T\ON  'WE..  p.,~~  RA\~\Nl.:l  ON  IKE  1>0MYE­ "W l-1'\  'D~'E.. ..  N'T  'JOU ,,  
\-11\<:..'E..  L'E..IT€..1:.,  -fi...Ui\oN  f>.L:IMN,  F00l. 'lou, WE. .' It-€.,_,...,._..,-..,-_,.~--.  PA'\  I,A5.  SoM~  MORE.?  
lE.I  'E.M  1>0WN  \NH\C.\-1  WE  Rt.ALI-'i hSS-Pcof-.  IS  'TH I>.T  FU~N'!  ? 0\::.P..~,  
E.~'f . P.  L\'1"\L'E...  ...  A  \..\TTI..t  MJ>o.'\ St.  1\-\ 1"\TS  1'\61"  
·:ro\<.t=.  M1>-.'p3t...  DoME.  r\U~of\  
Woil-¥..  '{o.>.R. kPl:tiC..  Fo~  'lou.."  

HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
~~lr~~l&ZhiE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
BOINS 
I I I tJ 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
HIWSS
rrJ 

TANNIE WHEN THE KITC-HEN 
HEL-P FEL-L.. B>EHINI/,
I I I 

www.jumble.com 
THE C-HEF WA?--­

GLUBIN j 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday's I Jumbles: JULEP PATIO BUSHEL TOUCHY Answer: How she felt when her cobbler recipe won the 
-
blue ribbon -JUST "PEACHY" 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 34 Perlman of 65 Talk wildly President "Cheers" 66 Etc. and ibid., before Jefferson 35 Society e.g. 6 Couch newcomer 67 Magician's stick 10 "Picnic" Pulitzer­36 These break the 68 Jazz singer winner William silence of the James 14 Performing lambs 69 Unlike a rolling poorly in 39 Derisive laugh stone? 15 Knocks for a 40 Huff and puff loop 
41 Prints, pastels DOWN 16 Gas in 
and such 1 Humiliate 

advertising lights 42 Hollywood's 2 Breakfast roll 
17 With 59-Across, Ken or Lena 3 Extends lyric from 44 Nasdaq debut: 4 Apple computer, "America, the Abbr. 
for short Beautiful" 46 Lyric from 5 Large steps 20 Bra's "America" 

6 Took to the 51 Lunatic airport, say 

counterpart 
21 U.N. working-conditions agcy. 
52 Japanese 7 Confess, with wrestling "up"

22 Molecule part 53 Smallish a Greek salad 
23 Guinness suffix batteries cheese24 Diet. info 55 Thick slice 9 Wood source for26 For adults, as 57 Band booking a baseball bat
films 30 Lyric from "The 
58 Air conditioner 10 Director me as. Bergman

Star-Spangled Banner" 59 See 17-Across 
11 Newcomer, briefly

33 Numbskull 64 "Garfield" dog 12 Moo_ gai pan 
13 Finish up

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 18 Bread spreads 19 _Linda, Calif. 25 Leaves in the lurch 27 "Look what I did!" 28 Fifty-fifty 29 Borrower's burden 31 Apron wearers, traditionally 32 L.B.J.'s veep 36 Soothing ointment 37 Neck of the woods 


38 Env. notation  45 Write computer  56 Dinghy or dory  
39 Get a move on,  instructions  59 "I'm impressed!"  
quaintly 40 Luau paste 42 Toothbrush brand  47 Dropped a line in the water 48 Should, informally 49 Bigwigs  so Rhoda's TV mom 61 1Oth­anniversary metal  
43 Spy novelist  50 Swamp  62 Blasting stuff  
John  swimmers  63 "The Sopranos"  
44 Shooting marble  54 Like dishwater  network  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: A.J. Trauth, 19; Adam Lamberg. 21: Callum Keith Rennie. 45; Joey Heatherton, 61 
Happy Birthday: These are changing times for you. The desire to move in a new direction in at least one area of your life is very apparent. Don't sit around waiting for things to happen. Recognize what you want in your life and move forward toward that goal. Your numbers are 3, 4, 7, 8, 14,29 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Get involved. Be a participant--active and aggressive in going after your goals. You will get lhe help you-need to follow through with your plans. **** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Take part in anything that can further your career. A course or a project that offers an opportunity to show your worth and talent should be considered. You will impress people with your versatility.** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may have too many choices. but that's OK as long as you don't try to do everything. Follow your heart and your intuilion. You can make a strong statement that will make people take notice. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Money, legal and health concerns should be where you put your efforts today. The more you can do to resolve such matters. the more likely you will benefit from them. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be resourceful if you want to stay in front of the competition. Someone from your past may have knowledge that will help you advance. You are likely to be deceived by a partner. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can have a good working relationship with your colleagues if you exercise patience and refrain from criticism. Compassion and understanding will be your ally in gaining the respect, admiration and trust you require. *** LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Everything should be about fun, travel and doing what's best for you. A little romance, excitement and playtime should be scheduled. You will attract people who look up to you. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): This is likely to be a rather emotional day for you if you've neglected the people most important in your life. It will be OK to share a longtime secret. An investment opportunity will be enticing. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will have the discipline to follow through with a new idea. Someone can make a difference to your future. Accepting a favor may not be easy for you. but it will tum your life around. **** 
> 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Money matters can be resolved if you go back to your original plan. Your ideas are just a little ahead of the times. Rethink your concept and come up with a way to make it work now. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): No one will be sure of your intentions if you let your emotions get in the way. Don't waffle or let anyone change your mind. An opportunity to learn something new is apparent.*** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Different living arrangements, redecorating or even a move will be good for your morale. Someone in an authoritative position may lead you astray. Find out what your rights are. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are much smarter, quicker and resilient than you portray, which gives you an advantage. You have a persuasive way of dealing with others. You are hard to resist and impossible to say no to. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast. com for confidential consultations 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, March 22, 2006 
page 24 
FooTBALL 

Questions, optimism mark start of spring practice 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
Irish head coach Charlie Weis kieked off the beginning of the spring football schedule Tuesday at Notre Dame's annual spring media day, saying his main objec­tive liJr thn coming wenks will be to raisn the team's expectations. 
"I think that last year the li>ot­ball tnam just didn't know at this point whether they were going to be any good or not," Weis said. ''I'm hoping they're not satisfied with the season they had last year. I know that I'm not satisfied with the season that we had last year." 

Weis said he installed a large banner in the Guglielmino to help motivate the Irish players. The sign reads, "9-3 is not good enough." 
''I'm hoping this time around that raising the expectations 
should be a rather simple task," he said. "We return 17 guys that are basically starters -nine on defense and eight on offense. We should expect a much hlgher level of performance this spring." 
The goal was one of four Weis highlighted for the team's 15 prac­tices over the next month leading up to the annual Blue-Gold game April 22. The first practice begins today at 5 p.m. at Cartier Field. 
He began by saying he will con­centrate on dividing his time equally between diflerent aspects of the game in the coming weeks, not solely focusing on the offense. 

"1 probably didn't do a very good job being a head coach [last] spring," he said. "I think I did a pretty good job being an in.<;taller of the offense, but I don't think I did a very good job as a head coach. This year, I think I'll be able to spend more time on special teams and more time on defense than I did last year." 
Weis said his second goal is to "seU~scout" his own team to elimi­nate unnecessary plays and improve in several areas. 
"We've analyzed our 2005 sea­son, and there's some obvious deductions that slap you in the face," he said. "We have to fix the problems we had last year. We also have to expand our paekagns. 
see FOOTBALL/page 22 

-
ND ATt11LETICS 

Changing regulations 
Athletic department restricts outside media 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Editor 
Subscribers to Notre Dame recruiting Web sites used to nnjoy thn privilege of down­loading unabridgnd, 60-minutn press eonfnrencBs with Notre Dame football coach Charlie Weds. But as !>pring football pral:lices bngin today, an hour with Weis has bncomn "Thren Minutns with Charlie." 
lrishlllustrated.com, a mnm­ber of "tho Hivals.com recruit­ing nntwork, is calling video highlights from press confer­ences just that, as Web sites are now packaging highlights of Weis' press conferences into condnnsed versions for viewers after tlw University announeed 
see MEDIA/page 20 

-___--_-_-_-_-~~~~==============================================================================~~=== 
BASEBALL 

TecLITI falls in home opener to Wright State 
Irish leave eight men on in close loss; veteran 
• Cooper extends hitting streak to eight games 
credited the Haider pitchers for By CHRIS KHOREY shutting down his team, which 
Associate Sports Editor 

had scored nearly eight runs per game over spring break. 
The Irish dropped their home "I thought they pitched unbe­opener Tuesday 4-2 to Wright lievable," Mainieri said. "I told State at Frank Eck Stadium. their coach 'you keep pitching Notre Dame (9-7) mustered like that you'll win a lot of only four hits in the contest, games this year." wasting a solid outing from The weather at the start of starting piteher Wade Korpi. the 5:05 game was a brisk 34 The sophomore allowed three degrees. By the time darkness runs in 6-plus innings, includ­fell, the temperature had ing none after the third frame. 
Irish coach Paul Mainieri see BASEBALL/page 22 


WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish take first loss of season 
Teanz registers wins over JMU and Loyola 
By CHRIS WILLIAMS Sports Writer 
All good things must come 
to an end. 
On Sunday, the Irish felt the 
pain of defeat, as they suc­
eumbed to the Northwestern 


Wildcats 21-12 in their first loss of' the snason. 
The Irish camH out of' the gatP fired up, 

Foote q u i c k I Y gaining 6-2 and 8-4 leads early on in the game. It seemed that thn Irish w1~rn ready to exorcisB the ghosts of' seasons past -most notably last season -and win against one of the nation's top teams. But the tables turned soon as the Wildcats showed the world why they are the defending NCAA women's lacrosse ehampions. After Notre Dame and Northwestern played a very close game in the first half, the Wildcats outplayed the Irish in the second stanza. Northwestern unleashed an offensive fury during the lat­ter part of the game, execut­ing their offense flawlessly. With their win over the Irish, the Wildcats extended their winning streak to 27 consecutive games. 
see LACROSSE/page 2:1 


WOMEN'S SWIMMING  SMC GOLF  NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALl  Nfl  NBA  
Illness holds Irish back in NCAAs  Belles take 13th in tournament  Tennessee 66 GWU52  Duke 85 usc 51  Vinatieri may move to Indy  Minnesota 100 Miami 96  
The  Notre  Dame  The defending MIAA  Tuesday's win over  The  Blue  Devils  The kicker of Super  Double-doubles  by  
women  struggled in  champions placed 13th  the Colonials put the  topped the Lady Trojans  Bowl fame is expected  Ricky Davis and Kevin  
their quest for a national  in  the  Shamrock  Vols  in  the  regional  for their second big win  to  go  the  Colts,  Garnett  led  the  
title  in  Athens,  Ga.  Invitational  over  the  semifinals for the 25th  in  the  postseason  although the decision is  Timberwolves over a  
March 16-18. page 21  weekend.  page 19  straight year. page 18  Tuesday.  page 18  not yet official. page 17  Shaq-less Heat team. page 16  






