
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Jenkins says events conflict with values 
Notre Dame shouldn't sponsor 'Monologues,' president believes 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
Univnrsity President Father .John Jnnkins delivnred a firm yot optm-onded statnnwnt to faculty M o n d a y 8:E Als::l about thn 
"Notable

intnraction 
of academic excerpts from fnwdom and 
Father John 

Catholic 
Jenkins' address

rharadnr at Notro Danw, to the faculty" calling tho 
pages 8 and 9

Univnrsity's sponsorship of nvPnts inconsistnnt with Catlwlit~ Waching "problnmat­ir" whiln asking for continued dialoguo lwforn lw announcns a formal policy. 
.lnnkins said evonts spon­sorml by tlw University or one of its units, ineluding aca­dtHnit~ dnpartmonts, that are dnnmnd to conllict or appear to eonf'lict with Catholic val­tws "should not bn allowed at No trtl Damn," making clear his opposition to tho sexually explicit anti-violence play "Tho Vagina Monologues." Monday's spench was the first of threo addresses the first­your University president sehnduled for this week ainwd at soliciting fendback from faculty. students and alumni about striking the eor­rl'd balanr.n between aca­dPmic frnodom and Catholic idnntity. 
"Whill' any rnstriction on nxprnssion must bn rPluctant and l'llStrairwd, I bnlinvn that, in sonw situations, given the distinct.ivn eharaeter and aspirations of Notre Damn, it may be necessary to establish certain boundaries, while defonding the appropriate exercise of academic free­dom," Jenkins said. 
Pausing only for brief sips of water during the 50­minute speech to a nearly full Leighton Concert Hall in the 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Members hone in on con1munity relations 
By KATIE PERRY 
A<sisl<lnt News Editor 
Student leaders emphasized tlwir concern regarding the University's stressed relation­ship with the community at a Couneil of Hepresentatives (COH) meeting Monday, where they discussed a resolution to amend the South Bend Public Nuisance Ordinance and recent break-ins occurring at off-campus housing. 
Community Helations chair Nick Guzman said the issue of his eommittne's namesake has "raised in the eyes of many students" due to the passing of the July 25, 2005 ordinance as well as the repeated break­ins in past weeks. 
"Student's don't see [the South Bend community! as being part of their lives, but (these instances] are showing it is," Guzman said. 
A resolution to tweak the ordinance was passed unani­mously within Student Senate on Nov. 30. It both recognizes the eoncerns of the South Bend community regarding 
see CORlpage 3 
Faculty angry, pleased 

with first of academic freedom addresses 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Assistant News Editor 

Furiously scratching .down notes, leaning over to confer­ence quietly with a neighbor, murmuring with approval or dissent -all things consid­ered, the crowd of faculty members gathernd to hear University President Fathnr John Jenkins speak Monday night looked thn part of the students they normally pre­side ovnr. 
But this was not thn typical class lecture, as sovnral of thn listeners were quick to respond to the presidnnt with high praise and fiery t~ritiques. 
Encouraged to add their voices to the "convnrsation" about the struggle to maintain both tho Catholic charactnr of 
·Notre Dame and the acadnmic freedom necessary cultivate a healthy University environ­ment, faculty took advantage of the post-speech formal question-and-answnr sossion as well as time set aside for more personal discussion dur­ing the post-address reception to raise concerns about the more controversial elements of Jenkins' statement. 
"Sexuality" was tho watch­word of the evening, with "The Vagina Monologues" ­an explicit play that's been a point of fierce debate sinee its arrival on earn pus four years ago -taking the prominent pI acn in discussion after Jenkins' assertion that he does not think the play should be performed at Notre Dame. 
Margot O'Brien, an associate 
see FACULTY/page 9 
DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, Jenkins was steady and straightforward as he spoke candidly about the campus presence of "The Vagina Monologues" and the Queer Film Festival -events entering their third and fifth years at Notre Dame, respee­lively -in the context of aca­demic freedom. 
Bather than issuing a firm policy, Jenkins discussed his convictions and then encour­aged feedback from faculty. He later declined to provide a 
see SPEECH/page 8 

Donors flood University phones 
Hundreds of concerned ND benefactors make calls, express anxiety 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
News Writer 
On the first business day after Notre Dame announced a Development Office server security breach, the University received hundreds of phone ealls about the inci­dent University vice presi­dent of Public Affairs and Communication Hilary Crnkovich said Monday. 
Many of the calls on Monday were to confirm that the incident did actually hap­pen, Crnkovich said. 
Meanwhile, investigation of how exactly the server was 

hacked into continued Monday. 
"I don't think our forensic experts have had an oppor­tunity to do full-circle analy­sis," Crnkovich said Monday afternoon. "That's still ongo­ing, so we probably need a little more time there. I would give them a little bit more time to do their due diligence." 
Crnkovich said that between 8 a.m. and 2 p.m. on Monday, about 200 people called the toll-free helpline set up by the University to facilitate concerns about the breach. Most, she said, were calling to make sure the e­mail they received from the University was not fake. 
"The calls are going well," Crnkovich. "The majority of them this morning, interest­ingly enough, were people confirming that it was real and that it wasn't a hoax. It's been pretty positive so far. So we hope it stays that way." 
She also said that the University has had no con­vincingly negative phone calls from donors who are upset to the point of threat­ening not to donate to the University as a result of this security breach. 
"To the best of my knowl­edge, we have had no real 
see SECURITY/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, January 24, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

81 and (far from_) done 
There's nothing wrong with 81. Kobe's performance Sunday night was a bold statement, notjust that he deserves to be the MVP of the NBA, but that the Kobe Bryant of old is gone for good and it doesn't 
Tim Kaiser 
matter whether you like it or not. And that's pre­

Sports Writer 
cisely why he won't get the credit he deserves: he's not the old Kobe, and he's just not very likeable. 
He came into the league an intro­verted 17 year-old who spoke fluent Italian and showed flashes of bril­liance, making his first All-Star team just two years later and later win­ning three championships for the Lakers. 
But times change. Bitter feuds with Shaq and Phil eventually sent both O'Neal and the coach packing, and just when the questions about his inability to be a team player were at their peak, the Eagle, Colo. sex scan­dal surfaced. After that tearful apol­ogy to his wife on national television failed to restore his perfect image, he never did. 
LeBron James has usurped the title of "the next Michael Jordan," as well as the endorsement deals with Nike, Sprite and Upper Deck. Kobe is no longer the NBA's favorite son, but he has embraced his new image, show­ing up to camp this year with some new tattoos and a self-bestowed vil­lainous nickname: the Black Mamba. 
No matter what Bryant accom­plishes, he will always have his crit­ics. "He's selfish," "he's too much trouble," they say. But they've left out one thing-he's amazing. 
There's nothing bad you can say about his play. He's a classic example of a good player on a bad team. And this bad team is winning -all because of him. 
Kobe is showing once again that you don't have to be a good person to be a good player. Bill Laimbeer, Rodman, 'Sheed -they never won any sportsmanship awards, but they did win championships. While the Lakers are far from a championship team this year, Kobe has willed them into seventh place in the West less help than the aforementioned bad boys. 
Look at the stat line of Sunday's game. You'll see six rebounds, three steals and a blocked shot. The man wasn't just gunning, he was playing defense, playing hard. He can't help that he is on the Lakers. 
He's angry, he's nasty, he's got a chip on his shoulder, but he's playing like no one has in years. It doesn't matter if you like Kobe, he probably doesn't like you either. 
It doesn't matter that he's no longer the angelic Kobe of old. This Kobe is new, improved and deserving of recognition. So, put aside your personal grudges, let go of those old memories of a baby-faced Kobe hawking Big Macs. 
It's best to do just what the rest of the Lakers are doing: sit back, relax, and enjoy. 
Contact Tim Kaiser at 
tkaiser@nd. edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Jan. 23 edition ofThe Observer, an article incorrectly said the anthropology department would not be offering the class "Cultural Difference and Social Change" due to lack of teaching interest. The department does have interest from professors and plans to offer the course in the fall. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: ARE YOU CONCERNED ABOUT THE SECURITY BREACH? 






Tamara LeVan  Theresa Keeley  Donny Tillotson  Kristin Aland  Corey Arvin  
senior McGlinn  sophomore PE  junior Stanford  junior off-campus  freshman Morrisey  
"It's something to be concerned about. It makes you wonder how they're safeguarding information.,,  "No, I think my information is safe.  'Tm not making enough money to be donating, sorm not worried.  "No, my wireless networks name is Chuck Norris, and he'll roundhouse kick anyone who tries to hack in. ,,  "No, because I haven't donated.,,  


IN BRIEF 

University President Father John Jenkins will be giving his Academic Freedom and Catholic Character address and discussion for students today at 12:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
There will be a blood drive today from 9:30 a.m. until 
3:30 p.m. in Rolfs Sports RecCenter. Call 631-6100 to register. 
The band Nice Save! will be perforing live at Corby's on Friday at 10:30 p.m. 
"Poetas y Pintores: Artists Conversing with Verse" art exhibit will open Friday, Jan. 27 in Moreau Art Galleries at Saint Mary's College. 
Welsh Family Hall Dance Show presents: "Game Faces" this Friday, Jan. 27 and Saturday, Jan. 28 at Washington Hall. Tickets are $4 and can be purchased at LaFortune Box Office or at the door. Profits benefit Hannah and Friends. 
Author Kirsten Sundberg Lassie reportedly helps gling in next to Crowther to new idea to curb rampant 
Lunstrum will give a reading rescue farmer, 90 keep hlm warm. crime in Mexico City. 
from her debut book of collec­SYDNEY, Australia -In a When darkness fell, Authorities in one of the 
tion of stories, This Life She's case oflife imitating fiction, a Crowther's wife came city's 16 districts are offering 
Chosen, on Feb. 1 at 7:30p.m. 13-month-old cattle dog searching in the woods with a new computer, out of 150 
in South Dining Hall's named "Lassie" helped to a flashlight, but couldn't hear donated by a charitable 
Hospitality Room. The event rescue its injured master his feeble cries. foundation, for each gun 
is free and open to the public. after he fell from a horse in "The dog ran to her and handed in. eastern Australia, a media she said 'Where's George?"' "People often have a gun 
Three panelists will address report said Tuesday. Crowther said. "And Lassie at home, which could per­
the question: "Iraq: What George Crowther, a 90-toddled off, leading my wife haps be for self-defense. but 
now?" in a discussion at 4:15 year-old farmer from to where I was. And the rest, sadly it becomes a family 
p.m. Jan. 31 in the auditorium Queensland state, broke hls of course, is hlstory." tragedy when it is not used 
of the Hesburgh Center for pelvis when he was pitched properly," said Guadalupe 
International Studies. from a bucking horse and his City offers new computers Lopez, local government foot became caught in the for old guns head for the central district 
To submit information to be 
reins, the Australian MEXICO CITY-Mexicans of Alvaro Obregon. 
included in this section of The 
Observer, e-mail detailed Crowther's dog, Lassie, exchange their weapons for Information compiled from 
Broadcasting Corp. reported. are being invited to 
information about an event to came to the rescue, snug-computers under a quirky the Associated Press. 
obsnews@nd. edu 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a: 
IJJ 
:c 
~ 
IJJ 
3: 
_, 
<C 
(.) 








.... 0 HIGH 38 23 HIGH 43 HIGH HIGH LOW 24 17 LOW 25 LOW LOW 
HIGH LOW 
36 33 
HIGH LOW 
41 28 

42 28 
Atlanta 59 I 40 Bos~on 42 I ~0 Chicago 41 I ~7 Denver 56 I 23 Houston 67 1 45 Los Angeles 67 1 46 Minneapolis 30 120 New York 43 I 34 Ph1ladelph1a 48 I 32 Phoemx 72 I 46 Seattle 50 I 38 St. Louis 58 I 34 Tampa 76 163 Washington 53 131 
Tuesday, January 24, 2006 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Catholic Think Tank lecture series set to begin 
Student government goal actualized; U.S. circuit judge to discuss religion in the judiciary 
ciary, which has become a greater issue with the recent nominations of Judges John Hoberts and Samuel /\lito to tho Supreme Court. 
Thn second speaker in the serins is tlw Most Heverend Thomas <~umbleton of Detroit. Mich. lie will speak Feb. 23 at 7::~0 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium, focusing on Catholieism and war. 
The Catholic Think Tank of America originated last year during the campaign of stu­dent body president Dave Baron and vice president Lizzi Shappell. While the program By RYAN SYDLIK 


News Writer 
Aftnr student government's long struggle to launch the Catholic Think Tank of :\morica Lneturn Snries, the program's first speaker will enrnnnt Notrn Damn's rnputa­tion as a forum for Catholic thought today. 
Tlw snrins, intnnded to bring direct discussion to stu­dents about religious and spiritual issuns and their rela­tion to practie<Ll areas of lifo, will feature prominent Catholics from across the 
faith's spec­trum -as well as some non­Catholics discussing aspects of spir­itual lifn. 
llonorable William Pryor, .Jr., a U.S. Circuit .Judge of the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals, will givn the 
has grown 
"We wanted this series to be comprised of quality as well as quantity.·· 
Elizabeth Kozlow chief executive assistant for student government 
slowly, Chief Executive Assistant for Student Government Elizabeth Kozlow said not having speak­ers on campus until the spring 2006 semester 
was a small 
price to pay for the quality product that ensued. 
ment faced was finding those suitable speakers. 
"In looking at speakers, we thought of issues that are rel­evant and timely for the dis­cussion," Kozlow said. "Judge Pryor and Bishop Gumbleton both possess a unique per­spective on separate issues that will significantly add to each discussion." 
Kozlow also said student govnrnment hopes the speak­ers it chose will raise aware­ness about their respective issues and spark further debate on campus. 
While programming is not considered to be the main 
focus of student government, Kozlow said this project is unique and extremely benefi­cial to students, as it requires students to relate to scholarly and significant topics outside the classroom. 
"Discussing these issues and bringing in important speak­ers to campus has been 


Security 
continued from page 1 
persuasively nngativn con­frontations," Crnkovieh said. 
On Monday, the Univnrsity had an estimate of how many donors were al'J'netnd. but that information will not bn rnleasnd to the public, aecording to Crnkovieh. 
"We do I havn a eou n t of those a ITe e ted I. but we ·r (~ going to keep it eonl1dnntial." she said. "Whenevnr an indi­vidual. even one individual, eould be al'l'eeted by sonw­thing, the number of pnople who eould have been alTm:tnd isn't really part of the overall story. If one person's affeeted, that's all that really matters. And the numbers aren't really of any use to anyone." 
The University has also trained individuals to address concerns posed by donors whose information may have been viewed by the intruder. 
"We have a number of peo­ple who work in the develop­ment office trained to talk with the people who could potentially have been al'feet­ed," Crnkovich said. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

inaugural lecture at 4 p.m. today for the Federalist Society at the Notre Dame Law School. lie will speak again to thn grnater Notre Damn eommunity at 7:30p.m. in tho LaFortune Ballroom. 
Pryor's lecture will focus on tlw role of religion in the judi­
"We wanted this series to be comprised of quality as well as quantity," Kozlow said. "We had to work with each speak­er's opportunities to come to campus and speak at a suit­able time." 
Kozlow said one of the first challenges student govern-extremely rewarding," she said. "Aspects of spiritual life that unite all of us have shown how important this debate is for students." 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 

Write for News. Call 1-5323. 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 24, 2006 
pate in such programs and know." address." educate students concerning protect themselves from Mem'bers also said the Wormington said the off-campus security.
COR 

crime. installation and proper use of "biggest issue" was not that 
continued from page 1 
the discourteous behavior of Notre Dame students and points out what student body president Dave Baron called "contradictory" elements of the ordinance. 
"The resolution ... recog­nizes the space between the community as a whole and the student body [and] recognizes that these are issues we can deal with," Guzman said. "We can take a proactive role." 
The resolution said the Public Nuisance Ordinance should be amended so it could be consistent with its original intent -that eviction pro­ceedings take place only after an initial "Notice to Abate" letter fails to change the behavior of the admonished tenant. 
Baron and Guzman's inten­tion for the resolution was to go in front of the city -and strides were made to realize that specific goal at Monday's COR meeting. 
Baron suggested the resolu­tion be brought up at the Feb. 27 South Bend Common Council meeting by COR repre­sentatives, who will each -by virtue of Council practices and policies -have three minutes to speak freely at meeting's conclusion. 
The central goals of a Notre Dame presence are to "talk about eviction proceedings as a defense provision" and "increase the scope" of the University's community partic­ipation, Baron said. 
"My hope is that it will [pose] our position in a light they haven't seen before," he said. 
Members said speakers at the event should present coherent arguments instead of being redundant. Additionally, members agreed it would be best to approach the meeting with professionalism and tact. 
"It is not my intention to spring this on [the council]," Baron said. "I'd like to tell them we're going to come and talk about this on a particular day ... It's prudent and courte­ous to let them know. I think it's our duty to go and present our case." 
Members agreed there should be more permanent Notre Dame representation and participation at future Council meetings -an aspira­tion that might be achieved by student liaisons. 
Baron said the issue of off­campus break-ins was also paramount in the struggle to ameliorate Notre Dame's rela­tionship with the South Bend community. 
"The mayor's office has approached me and showed signs of [its] affinity for help­ing students out," he said. "They want to do something proactive." 
But members agreed stu­dents must first take an initia­tive to protect themselves. 
Guzinan presented two measures that might prevent crimes occurring at student homes off-campus. Project MARC enables students to enter valuables into a South Bend Police Department (SPBD) database so they might be returned following a theft. Students can also partake in the SBPD-run neighborhood watch program led by cap­tains within their respective neighborhoods. 
Members lauded the solu­tions but grappled with how to encourage students to partici­
"This is making the idea of alarm systems is a sensible 
community relations that solution to much harder," Baron said. 
"My hope is that it

Center for Social 
will [pose] our

Concerns repre­sentative Kate position in a light Distler said stu­
they haven't seen 

dents need to be 
before.''

smarter about their belongings. "We need to do Dave Baron a whole lot more student body president 
'common sense' things," off-cam­
the problem of break-ins and vandalisms in student hous­ing off-campus. "I really think the alarm sys­tems ought to be played up," C I u b Coordination 
Council Presi-
dent Beth O'Shaughnessy 

pus president Matt said. "I think that would keep Wormington said. "Don't leave people from taking things out big televisions by the window of the house -it sounds like things a lot of kids don't the most practical thing to 
students did not have an alarm system, but rather the system was incorrectly installed or non-fully function­ing -a key error he said might be resolved if property owners like Mark Kramer switched from Safeguard to ADT securi­ty. 
Members said students must be made more aware of proce­dural steps they can take to reduce future crimes like those occurring during winter break -such as Notre Dame Security/Police's storage avail­ability for valuables -and sug­gested a summer mailing be sent to off-campus students to 
In other COR news: 

+ Steve Friend was nominated and approved to resume the post of student union treasur­er Mike Marshall for the time frame spanning yesterday through March 1. 
"He really knows what's going on and how to do things," Marshall said, "He's been up to date on things we've done here. I really think he will be a good addition to the Financial Management Board and COR as well." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 


At Ernst &Young you'll get the on-the-job training you need to succeed on your own. 
We know you're new to the work force. That's why we've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. At Ernst &Young we're offering an opportunity to learn from some of the best talent in the industry. If you're looking for agreat start, 
---look for us on campus. Or visit us on the Web at ey.comjusjcareers. We won't steer you wrong. 







ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, January 24, 2006 Cotv1PILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Russia accuses Britain of spying 
MOSCOW -Hussia's main intelligence agency on Monday aec:usnd four British diplomats of spying -using electronie nquipnwnt hiddnn inside a fake rock in a park -as well as funneling funds to non­governnwntal organizations. 
Tho <Ulllouncement came a day artnr state tnlnvision channel Hossiya broadc:ast footage purportndly showing four British Embassy stair using elndronie nquipnwnt concealed in thn rock in Moscow to rncnive intellignnc:e from Hussian agnnts. 
A prominent rights activist warnnd the arrusations rould be used as a pretext to !Tack down on Western-funded groups that arn critical of tlw KrPmlin. 
SnrgPi lgnatrlwnko, a spokesman for tho l;ndnral Sncurity Snrvicn, the main successor to Llw Soviet-era K<;B, said the situation would lw resolvml "at a political level," the l!IA-Novosti rwws agency reported, an apparent indication that the llussian govnrn­1111'111 muld PXJWI the diplomats. 
Derailed passenger train kills dozens 
BIOCJ·:. Serbia-Monterwgro -A packed passnngPr train derailed Monday and plunged into a steep riVI~r canyon outside the MontPrll'grin capital, killing at lnast 39 peo­ple, tlw governnwnt said. 
Morn than 135 pnople w1~rn injurnd in thn late-afternoon crash. among thn dP.adlinst J·:uropmm train a1~ddents of thn past quartnr­cmJtury. 
Tlw train. which carried dozens of c:hildrnn rPlurning homo from a ski vacation, derailed rwar Biocn, a village about nine miles north­east of l'odgorica as it mnergml from a tun­rwl above tlw Moraca Hiver, police said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
FDA to consider new obesity pill 
WASIIJN(;TON-Fat Americans may be just months away from gaining a nnw ally in the battle of the bulgn. 
Tlw fat-blocking pill. alrnady named Alii, is nwant to help the overweight and obese shed pounds as part of an overall diet and exercise program. 
A panni of experts voted 11-3 late Monday to rtH~omnHHHI that the Food and Drug Administration approve sales of the pill with­out a prescription. The drug is limnally called orlistat and is alnmdy availabl1l for sale in pre­scription lilrm as Xenical. 
Tlw liJ>A still rwnds to sign oil' on the reeom­nwndation. It usually follows the advice of its ouLo.;idn pands of expert sdentisLo.; and doctors. 
If tlw FDA dons OK the pill, it would beeome tlw first agency-sanctioned weight-loss drug available for purchase without a prescription. 


West Virginia passes mining law 
CIIAHLESTON, W.Va.-After 14 coal mining deaths in three weeks, West Virginia lawmaknrs unanimously passed a bill Monday that would require mines to use Plnctronie devices to track trapped mirwrs and stockpiln oxygnn to keep them alive until help arrives. 
The Senate and !louse both aeted with rnmarkablo haste at the urging of Gov . .Jon Manchin, who unveiled the legislation about II a.m. and pressed lawmakers to pass it by the end of thn day. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Death row prisoner to die Friday 
INI>IANAI'OI.IS -The Indiana Paroln Board votml unanimously Monday to rec­OIIIIIIIHHI against clemency for Marvin Bioghl1~r. tho snlf-profnssml "King Kong of Kokomo" smJtnneod to death for the exncu­tion-styln slayings of a lloward County cou­ple in I1JS I. 
Barring a last-minute reprieve frbm Gov. Mitch Daniels or the courts, Bieghler, 5H, is scheduled to die by lethal injnction at the Indiana Stato Prison in Michigan City early Friday. 
Bush defends domestic spying 
President clarifies plan, terming it a 'terrorist surveillance program' 
Associated Press 
MANHATTAN, Kan. ­President Bush pushed back Monday at critics of his once-socrnt domestic spying effort. saying it should be termed a "ter­rorist surveillance pro­gram" and contending it has tho backing of legal experts, key lawmakers and the Supremn Court. 
Several membnrs of_ Congress from both parties havn questioned whether the warrantlnss snooping is logal. That is beeausn it bypasses a spndal fnderal court that. by law, must authorize eavesdropping on Amerjc:ans and because the pn~sidnnt provided lim­ited notification to only a fnw lawmakers. 
"It's amazing that people say to mn, 'Well, he's just brnaking the law.' If I wanted to break the law, why was I briefing Congress?" asked Bush. One of those who had been informed, Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Pat Hoberts, H­Kan., was sitting behind Bush during his appear­
ance  at  Kansas  State  
University.  
Bush's  remarks  were  

part of an aggressive administration campaign to defend the four-year-old program as a crucial and legal terror-fighting tool. Thn White Ilouse is trying to sell its side of the story before the Senatn Judieiary Committee opens hearings on it in two weeks. 
Back in Washington, Gen. Michael Hayden, the former National Security Agency director who is now the government's No. 2 intelligenee off1eial, eon­tended the surveillance was narrowly targeted. lie acknowledged that the program established a lower legal standard to eavesdrop on terror-relat­ed eommunieations than a surveillance law imple­mented in 1978. 
Under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, government ol'l'icials had to prove to a secretivn intelligenee eourt that there was "probable cause" to believe that a person was tied to terror­ism. Bush's program allows senior NSA officials to approve surveillanee when there was "reason to believe" the call may involve ai-Qaida and its aiTI!iates. 


Hayden maintained that the work was within the law. "The constitutional standard is reasonable.... I am convinced that we are lawful because what it is we are doing is reason­able," he said at the National Press Club. 
Hayden also rejeeted suggestions that the NSA rank-and-file had prob­lems with the eleetronie monitoring, saying that the agency's independent watehdog told him Friday that "not a single employ­

ee" had registered a eon­cern with that offiee about the program. 
Democrats countered that many important ques­tions remain. 
"We can be strong and operate under the rule of law," said Senate Minority Leader Harry Heid, D-Nev. "These are not mutually exelusive prineiples -they are the principles upon which our nation was founded." 
In his remarks, Bush said that allowing the NSA to monitor the internation­al phone calls and e-mails of Amerieans with suspeet­ed ties to terrorists ean hardly be eonsidered "domestic spying." 
"It's what I would eall a terrorist surveillance~ pro­gram," Bush said at Kansas State. "If they're making a phone 1~all in the United States, it seems like to me we want to know why." 
lie said he "had all kinds of lawyers revinw thn proeoss" to ensure it didn't violate civil liberties or the law. 
And he insisted that a recent Supreme Court decision backs his eon­tnntion that he had the authority to order the pro­gram through a rnsolution Congress passed af'tnr the 200 I terrorist attacks that lets him use force in the anti-terror light. 
''I'm not a lawynr, but I ean tell you what it moans: It means Congross gave me the authority to usn neces­sary force to protect tlw Ameriean peopln, but it didn't preseribn the tac­tics," Bush said. 
KUWAIT 


Emir agrees to abdicate position 
Associated Press 
KUWAIT CITY -Kuwait's ailing emir has agreed to abdicate under a dnal worked out within the ruling family, a lawmaker said Monday ­paving the way for the prime minis­ter and longtime de facto ruler to take the reins of power. 
The aecord followed an unprece­dentnd public quarrel within the rul­ing family over who would lead the country, one of Washington's most steadfast allies in the Middle East and a major oil producer, after the death of its longtime leader. 
One faction backed the ailing new emir, Sheik Saad AI Abdullah AI Sabah, and the other-ineluding the Cabinet -supported the prime min­ister, half brother to the previous leader, who dind Jan. 15. 
The two camps met Monday night to try to reach a compromise before a parliament debate Tuesday over whether Sheik Saad should be ousted in favor of the prime minister, Sheik Sabah AI Ahmed AI Sabah. 
In annoum~ing the abdication deal, lawmaker Nasser ai-Saneh told Tlw Associated Pross "an agrnement has been reached in the family and [Sheik Saad I will sign the abdication papnrs tomorrow." 
It was not known when Shnik Sabah would take thn oath as emir. 
As prime minister, Sheik Sabah has been running the day-to-day affairs of Kuwait sinee the longtime ruler, Sheik Jaber All\hmnd AI Sabah, suf­fered a brain hemorrhage in 2001. invaded the country in 1990. 

page 6 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, January 24, 2006 

Hacker adtnits using 1Zotnbie netw-ork' 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -A 20-year­old hacker admitted Monday to surreptitiously seizing control of hundreds of thousands of Internet-connected computers, using the zombie network to serve pop-up ads and renting it to people who mounted attacks on Web sites and sent out spam. 
Jeanson James Ancheta, of Downey, Calif., pleaded guilty in Los Angeles federal court to four felony charges for crimes, includ­ing infecting machines at two 
U.S. military sites, that earned him more than $61 ,000, said fed­eral prosecutor James Aquilina. 
Under a plea agreement, which still must be approved by a judge, Ancheta faces up to 6 years in prison and must pay the federal government restitution. He also will forfeit his profits and a 1993 BMW. Sentencing is schedule for May 1. 
Prosecutors called the case the first to target profits derived from use of "botnets," large numbers of computers that hack­ers commandeer and marshal for various nefar:ious deeds, their owners unaware that parasitic programs have been installed are being run by remote control. 
Botnets are being used increasingly to overwhelm Web sites with streams of data, often by extortionists. They feed off of vulnerabilities in computers that run Microsoft Corp.'s Windows operating system, typically machines whose owners haven't bothered to install security patches. 
A November indictment charged Ancheta with 17 counts of conspiracy, fraud and other crimes connected to a 14-month hacking spree that started in June 2004 and that authorities say continued even after FBI agents raided his house the fol­lowing December. 

"Part of what's most troubling about those who commit these kinds of offenses is they think they'll never be caught," said Aquilina, who spent more than a year investigating Ancheta and several of Ancheta's online asso­ciates who remain uncharged co­conspirators. 
Ancheta's attorney, federal public defender Greg Wesley, did not immediately return phone calls seeking comment. 
Ancheta has been in federal custody since his November indictment. lie previously worRcd at an Internet cafe owned by a relative and had hoped to join the military reserves, according to his aunt, Sharon Gregorio. Court docu­ments suggested he had a taste for expensive goods, spending $600 a week on new clothes and car parts. 
The guilty plea comes less than a week after the FBI released a report that estimates viruses, worms and Trojan horse pro­grams like the ones Ancheta employed cost U.S. organizations $11.9 billion each year. 
November's 52-page indict­ment, along with papers filed last week, offer an unusually detailed glimpse into a shadowy world where hackers, often not old enough to vote, brag in online chat groups about their prowess in taking over vast numbers of computers and herding them into large armies of junk mail robots and arsenals for so-called denial of service attacks on Web sites. 
Best Wishes to the Graduating Class of2006 and to the Incoming Class of2010 
DEDICATION 

For Utmost Abundant Blessings Upon All Students, Faculty, Staff, Benefactors, Friends, and Advertisers ofCatholic Education Worldwide, and Most Particulary for the Following Schools, and to St. Thomas Aquinas, 1226-1274, Patron Saint ofCatholic Colleges and St. Bemardine ofSiena, 1381-1444, Patron Saint ofAdvertising 
SCHOOL; FOUNDED; CIRCA-ENROLLMENT; LOCATION; OTHER 
Aquinas College; 1886, Dominicans; 2,500; Grand Rapids, Michigan Ave Maria University; 2004, Thomas S. Monaghan; 307; Naples, Florida; Ground Broken in 2005 for pennnnanent campus ofc.6,000 students Barry University; 1940, Dominicans; 3,276; Miami Shores, Florida Boston College; 1863, Jesuits; 13,700; Chestnut Hill. Massachusetts Canisius College; 1870. Jesuits; 5.048; Buffalo. New Yorlc; Named after St. Peter Canisius, an original member ofthe Society of Jesus 
Catholic University of America; 1887. U.S. Bishops; 2,587; Washington, D.C. Creighton University; 6,300; Omaha. Nebraska DePaul University; 1898. Vincentians; 23,000; Chicago. Illinois Duquense University; 1878; 8.000; Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Motto-Spiritus est qui vivificat-lt is the Spirit who gives life Fairfield University; Jesuits; 3.300; Fairfield. Connecticut 
Fordham University; 1841. Jesuits; 15.000; Bronx, New Yorlc Franciscan Univenlty of Steubenville; 1946, Franciscans; 2,370; StcubenviUe, Ohio 
Georgetown University~ 1789 Jesuits; Washington, D.C. Gonzaga Univenity; 1887. Jesuits; 5,400; Spokane.Washington Immaculata University; 1920; 3,443; Immaculata, Pennsylvania 
lona College; 1940; 3,400; New RncheUe, New Yorlc La Salle Univenity; 1851, tasallian; 6.221; Philadelphia. Pennsylvania Loyola University Chicago; 1870, Jesuits; 18,319; Chicago, Ulinois; Largest of the 28 USA Jesuit schools Loyola University New Orleans; t912,Jesuits; 5~900; New Orleans. Louisiana Madonna University; 1947, Felicians; 4.294; Livonia. Michigan 
Manhattan College; 1853, tasallian; 3.000; Riverdale, New York Marquette University; 1881, Jesuits; 11.000; Milwaukee. Wisconsin Mount Saint Mary's University; 1808; 2.125; Emmitsbwg, Maryland Nlagra Univenlty; 1856, Vicentians; 3,500; Niagra Univ~miry, New York Providence College; 1917, Dominicans; 5.200; Providence, Rhode Island 
Seton Hall University; 1856; 10,000; South Orange, New Jersey; Started by Bishop Bayley. nephew ofSt. Elizabeth Ann Seton St. Bonaventure University; 1858, Franciscans; 2,800; St. Bonaventure. New York St. John's Ualvenlty; 1870, Viccntians; 14,848; Queens. New York St. Joseph's University; 1851, Jesuits; 7.230; Philadelphia. Pennsylvania SL Louis Univenity; 1818~ Jesuits~ l 1 .500; St. Louts, Missouri; FitSt Catholic college west ofthe Mississippi 
St. Mary'• College; Holy Cross; 1,571; Notre Dame, Indiana St. Peter'• College; 1872. Jesuits; 2,300; JeiSey City, New Jen;ey Unlvenlty ofDetroit Mercy; 1877, Jesuits/Mercy"Sisters; 8,200; Detroit, Michigan Untv-ty o{ Notre Dame; 1842, Holy Cross; 8,200; Notre Dame, Indiana Ualverslty ofSan Diego; 4.400; San Diego. California 
Univ-ty of San Francisco; 1855, Jesuits; 8.274; San Francisco, California Villanova University; 1842, Augustinians; 6.285; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Xavier Unlvenity; 1831, Jesuits; 6,450; Cincinnati, Ohio 
Sponsored by Ford Motor Company, and Bank ofAmerica Ford Motor Company; f.l903, Henry Ford; Deaibom. Michigan; 500 employees in 1903, 300,000 employees in 2005 Ford Offering A $1,000 Rebate on the Purchase of Any 2006 Ford Vehicle, Please CaU 1-800-555-FORD Bank ofAmerica; f.l940; Los Angeles, California; 1,000 employees in 1940. 200,000 employees in 2005 Bank of America Offering New Credit Card Accounts With a $3,000 Credit Limit, Please Call 1-800-555-BANK 
Congress to co111bat phone record selling 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Disclosures that companies arc selling pri­vate phone records have law­makers and federal regulators moving to try to halt the prac­tice. 
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., said in a state­ment Monday that he will work with the head of the Senate Commerce Committee, Sen. Ted Stevens, H-Alaska, on a bill to criminalize the practice. 
"Fraudulently obtaining a customer's cell phone records and selling them over the Internet is wrong and must be stopped," Frist said. "Consumers have a right to expect that this information will be kept private, with very limit­ed exceptions." 
Sens. Charles Schumer, D­N.Y., Arlen Specter, H-Pa., and Bill Nelson, D-Fla., have also introduced a bill outlawing the practice. Similar House legisla­tion is being proposed. 
The companies that offer peo­ple's cell and landline records can get the information a few different ways. One method is called "pretexting," in which data brokers or those working for them call a phone company pretending to be a customer and persuade it to release the information. 

~ Pretexting for financial data is 
illegal, but there's no specific 
law against pretexting for 
phone records. The data bro­
kers also can use insiders at the 
phone companies to get the 
records. 
The Federal Communications 
Commission is investigating the 
online data brokers. The agency 
has subpoenaed DataFind.org 
and Locatecell.com for informa­
tion on how they obtain the 
phone records. A follow-up let­
ter sent last week gave the Web 
sites a week to comply before 
facing fines of up to $11,000 for 
each day they are in violation of 
the citation. 
An attorney for 
Locatecell.com, which is run by 
a Florida-based company called 
1st Source Information 
Specialists, did not return sev­
eral phone calls on Monday. A 
company official with 
DataFind.org in Tennessee had 
an unpublished phone number 
and was not reachable. 
Experts say the breadth of 
information one could glean 
from a person's phone records 
is alarming. 
"It's everyone your teenager 
called from home, who is dating 
whom, contacts with reporters 
for politicians,... said Peter 
Swire, a law professor at Ohio 
State University and former 
Clinton administration privacy 
official. 

7:30-9:30p.m. 
offee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, January 24th 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Stand;ng Comm;ttee on Gay and 
Lesb;an Student Needs ;nvites gay, 
lesb;an, and b;sexual members of 
the Notre Dame family, the;r 
friends, and supporters to an 
;nformal coffee at the Co-Mo. 


Everyo11e is welcome and confidentiality is assured. *Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
, 

THE 0HSERVER 





USINESS
Tuesday, January 24, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
10,392.99 -78.48
}ones 
up: Same: Down: Composite Volume 1,574 173 11719 1,657,385,088 
AMEX 1,414.58. +8.82 NASDAQ 2,034.27 -11.61 NYSE 6.996.56 -13.91 S&PSOO I, 167.87 -7.54 NIKK£1(Tokyo) II ,238.37 -46.40 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,803.30 +2.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR SER I (QQQQ) -0.80 -0.30 37.05 SIRIUS SATELLITE R(SIRI) +5.23 +0.29 5.83 EBAY INC (EBAY) +3.26 +2.72 86.05 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -1.69 -0.31 18.0 I INTEL CP (INTC) -0.71 -0.16 22.42 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -026 -0. 12 46.43 I0-YEAR NOTE -0.60 -0.25 41.40 5-YEAR NOTE -1.03 -0.38 36.39 3-MONTH BILL -0.22 -0.05 23.02 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) + 1.22 48.53 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) +4.30 422.60 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.38 93.73 
fxcha Rates 

YEN I 02.8200 EURO 0.7663 POUND 0.5325 
IN BRIEF 
Newest 'mad cow' worries beef industry 
TOHONTO -A cow from an Alberta farm has tostnd positive for mad cow disease, olli­eials said Monday, raising fears for a bnnf indus try still struggling to rneover from a U.S. decision in 2003 to ban cattle imports. 
llr. Brian Evans. Canada's chief veterinttry ollknr, said the disease was found in a 6-year­old animal that did not enter the human food or animal-feed systems. 
Tlw positivn test could be a blow to Canadian ranelwrs who were hard hit after thn United States banned Canadian cattle imports in May 2003 following the country's lirst easn of mad cow disease. The U.S. border r11opmwd in July to Canadian cattle younger than 30 months. 
U.S. ofneials said the latest case will not prompt a similar ban on Canadian beef imports. 
Heating costs drive insulation demand 
TOLEDO, Ohio -The high cost of heating a honw this winter is pushing demand for insula­tion through the roof. 
Manufaetumrs are increasing produetion and installers arn struggling to keep up with orders from homeowners -some have waiting lists that strnteh to the end of February. 
Horne building supplier Owens Corning, known for its pink insulation, is reopening a shuttnred plant in central Ohio that will make loose insulation that is blown into atties and' walls. 
Even before home heating bills soared, insula­tion salns wern on thn rise beeausn of a strong honw building market over the last few years. 
A nnw tax erndit for homeowners who install lmnrJ.,ry-nllident windows. furnaeos and insula­tion along with rebuilding from hurricane dam­age in the <;ulf Coast could keep demand for insulation high li1r a while. 
"It's orw of those things people don't typically think about bemuse it's behind thn walls and in the attic," said Mike Lynam. diredor of stratngie marknting for Knauf Insulation, basnd in Slwlhyvilln. Ind. 
Toh1do-based Owens Corning has inereasnd insulation production ovnr thn past two years and a ynar ago made morn libnrglass insulation than any year in il<; history, said Knrry Desb11rg. a company spokesman. 
Ford presents restructuring plan 
Auto company president Mark Fields aims to restore overall profitability 
Associated Press 

DEAHBOHN. Mir.h. -Ford 
Motor Co. plans to eut up to 
30,000 jobs and shutter 14 
planl'i in a swenping rnstrue­
turing it hopes will turn its 
North Am11rkan auto busi­
nnss bac:k into a profitable 
venture. 

Union lnad1~rs called the planned eul<; "extrnmnly dis­appointing." But shares of thn nation's sneond-biggest auto maker rose on Monday's nnws, indicating some investors worn pleased with the long-awaitnd "Way Forward" plan, as well as with a larger-than-expneted $124 million ovPra.ll prolit in the lilurth quarter. 
Ford shares rose 42 eenl'i, or 5.3 pcrc:ent, to dose at $H.32 on the New York Stock Exehangc. The quarter's profits eamn in large part because of the sale of its llertz Corp. rental division. 
Ford, likn its larger U.S. counterpart General Motors Corp., is struggling with hel'ty losses in its North American oporations and with shrink­ing market share, as Asian competitors sell more and morn ears. 
Ford said the plan will restore profitability by 200H. But some analysts said the 
AP Photo

plan was short on details, 
Ford Motor Company announced Monday plans to cut 30,000 jobs and close 14 facto­
leaving them unenrtain if it would boost Ford profits as ries by 2012, including Wixom Assembly Plant in Wixom, Mich. the company struggles with aggressive compntition, high­lirst quarter of this year. A mindful of their impaet," onn plant in North Amnrica, er gasoline priees, rising plant near Atlanta will dose Chairman and Chief but Fields wouldn't say eosts for labor and raw at the end of this year and a Executive Bill Ford said in whnre it will be located. lin materials and a junk credit plant in Wixom, Mich., will announcing the eul'i. "In thn would only say that thn plant rating. Ford named only five close in the second quarter of long run we will create far must bn a low-cost opera­of the planl<> it plans to dose. 2007, according to Ford more stable and secure jobs. tion. "It's a step forward in the Americas President Mark We all have to change and UAW President Hon culture of Ford. Whether it Fields, the architect of the we all have to saerifice, but I Gettelfinger and Viee translates into increased plan. believe this is the path to President Gerald Bantom profits remains to be seen," Other plants to be idled winning." expressed disappointnumt said Brian Johnson. an auto and eventually closed In addition to the facilities over the plan. analyst with Sanford through 2008 are Batavia named Monday, analysts al<>o "The impaetnd hourly and Bernstein. Transmission in Ohio and have predicted assembly salariHd work11rs lind them­The euts represent up to Windsor Casting in Ontario. plants in St. Paul, Minn.. and selves facing uneertain 25 percent of Ford's North Ford will choose later this Cuatitlan, Mexico could be at futures beeause of senior American work force of year two more plants to be risk for closure because of management's failum to halt 122,000 people. Ford has idled. The eompany also will the products they make. Ford's sliding market share," approximately 87,000 hourly reduce production to one Under the company's exist­they said in a statnment. workers and 35,000 'salaried shift at its St. Thomas assem­ing contract with the United "The announeemnnt has fur­workers. In addition, Ford bly plant in Ontario. All of the Auto Workers, workers at tiler left a cloud hanhring over plans to cut 12 percent of its plant closings and job cuts the idled plants will continue the entire work force corporate onicers in the next are scheduled to be complet­to get most of their pay and because of pnnding future two months. ed by 2012. benelil<> until a new eontract announcemenl'i of additional Ford's St. Louis plant will "These cuts are a painful is negotiated next year. facilities to be dosed at some be the lirst plant idled, in the last resort, and I'm deeply Ford also plans to build point in the future." 

Prosecutors settle Ameriquest case 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -State prosecu­tors said Monday a $325 million set­tlement with lending giant Ameriquest will give some 725,000 borrowers in 49 states a chance at recovering some money lost due to what they described as deceptive lending practices. 
The agreement. first revealed Friday, is the second-largest con­sumer protection settlement reached by a state or the federal government, the statn oiTicials said. The largest was for $4H4 million, obtained by a group or states in 2002 from Household Finance Corp. 
"We found that Ameriquest's lend­ing practices too often violated prin­ciples of fairness," said California Attorney General Bill Lockyer. "This settlement provides a good measure of justice by compensating victims for previous practices and to soc there aren't problems in the future." 
About $4 million from the Ameriquest settlement will got to customers in Indiana, according to the statn attorney general's oiTice. 
The states hogan investigating the Orange, Calil'.-based company, which lends to people with poor credit. more than two years ago artnr rneoiving complaints from tens of thousands of consumers who elairned they were paying more for their loans than they bargained for. 
The states have alleged that the 
•· 
company's business praetiens were deceptive, leaving som1~ borrowers saddled with extra fees or higher mortgage rates. 
There was "strong, strong pres­sure in the compensation system and in the quota system and from the branch and retail managers to snll, sell, sell," said Iowa Attornny General Tom MillPr, who lnd thn states' effort. "This produend, we think, significant problems for con­sumers." 
The settlement covers ACC Capital Holdings Corp., Ameriqunst Mortgage Co.'s holding company. and also applins to subsidiarins Town & Country Credit Corp. and AMC Mortgage Serviens lne.. for­merly Bedford Home Loans. 

r 
' 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 24, 2006 

Speech 
continued from page 1 
specific timetable for his final decision or to predict how broad his eventual policy on the events will be. 
"I don't want to speculate on how much it will cover and how much it won't cover ­we'll just listen to responses and see what the best decision is," he said. "I want to give people a chance to respond, and I think that will take six to eight weeks just to give them plenty of time. It'd be nice to have some sort of resolution this semester, but I'm not going to commit myself to a definite timetable." 
While the permanent fates of both "The Vagina Monologues" and the Queer Film Festival will not be determined until Jenkins has heard and exam­ined the opinions of various constituencies on campus, he said this year's "Monologues" will be held in a classroom setting without ticket sales and the festival will go on under a new name. 
Unlike the "Monologues," which Jenkins said he has "difficulty seeing" as "the appropriate means" to the ends of promoting female 

empowerment and eliminating "The concern that I and associates the University's in his speech hypothetical violence against women, the many others have is that in name with them," Jenkins examples of other conferences Queer Film Festival prompted the Vagina Monologues ... said, saying this publicity can that would be unacceptable two more specific concerns there is no hint of central ele­mislead the public. "Such for the University to host on from the president. ments of Catholic sexual occurrences suggest the the grounds of their own con­Jenkins said the festival's morality. The work contains University endorses or at least flicts with Catholic teaching ­title -which some members graphic descriptions of homo­finds compatible with its val­including "Childish Fancy and of the University community sexual, extra-marital hetero­ues certain views which are Adult Ignorance: Theism as understood as celebrating a sexual and auto-erotic experi-not in fact compatible. The Delusion and Psychosis," "The homosexual lifestyle -and its ences." wide publicity and prominence Moral Legitimacy of content, which "The Vagina given such events tends to Infanticide and Euthanasia" some said neg­Monologues" instrumentalize our collective and "The Moral Acceptability lected to include will be held in a identity and our higher mis­and Strategic Value of First­
'Tm happy the 
the Catholic to-be-deter­sion. strike Nuclear Attack."
discussion is open, 
position on mined class­"The concern here, as I said, "Again, the problem would homosexuality, and I'm sure it will room setting is not with censorship, but be that this Catholic institu­were his primary bear good fruit in this year and with sponsorship." tion would seem to be span-concerns, both of will be open to Theology pro-soring an
time."
which have been the University fessor Jean event that resolved through community, Porter said "The point is it's an supports or discussions with Father John Jenkins Jenkins said. Jenkins' state­appears to
academic exercise 

the Film, "The point is ments about support a
University President 
sponsored by an

Television and it's an academic sponsorship position Theatre exercise spon­seemed to academic department in clearly and Department. sored by an academic depart­place severe egregiously
an academic setting." 

"Both of those have been ment in an academic setting," restrictions on contrary to addressed as I understand it," he said. the activities of the certain · he said. That sponsorship for the departments Father John Jenkins central values 
He declined to specify the long term, however, was and other units University President 0 f exact replacement title for the exactly what the president of the Catholicism," festival. said prompted his disapproval University. he said. 
Jenkins repeatedly praised of events deemed inconsistent During the 20-minute ques­Seated in the auditorium's "The Vagina Monologues" in with "certain fundamental val­tion-and-answer session fol­front row for the duration of his speech for the play's objec­ues of a Catholic university." lowing Jenkins' address, the address, University tives -"that women should "The fact that ["The Vagina Porter echoed her colleagues' President Emeritus Father be aided to affirm their own Monologues" and Queer Film fears about the president's Theodore Hesburgh said after­bodies, the gift of their sexual­Festival] have been sponsored definition of academic free­ward that the discussions ity and their identity as annually by units of the dom, which she interpreted as represent a constructive step women" -but criticized its University, and have been protecting faculty members for the Notre Dame communi­attempt to meet them. widely publicized, prominently when acting individually but ty. 
restricting "I think it brings the 


them when University to what a University 
acting collec­should be -a place of serious 
tively. discussion, a discussion found­

"And that, I ed not just on emotion but on have seen, principle, a discussion that seems to be a tries to avoid prejudice or very narrow unfairness," Hesburgh said, construction "but which tries to bring to of academic the fore the light of the object, freedom, and which is truth." I have to Hesburgh, who served as admit frankly president from 1952 to 1987,­I'm not sure the longest such tenure in how academic Notre Dame history, said the freedom can University ultimately benefits really exist if from differing opinions. that con-''I'm happy the discussion is straint is open, and I'm sure it will bear taken serious­good fruit in time, and I don't ly -particu-think it's a question of person­larly since al animus or anything of that much of sort," Hesburgh said. "I think school and we have to respect each other academic life and each other's opinions is carried out against the backbone of where collectively as we began as a Catholic univer­members of a sity." department Jenkins said his address to or unit," she students today at 12:30 p.m. said. in Washington Hall will be 
• 
To avoid similar to the faculty address, narrowing his but shorter and more geared focus solely to toward student interest. lie events per­was introduced Monday by taining to Provost Thomas Burish and Catholic will be introduced today by teaching on student body president Dave issues of sex­Baron. u a I i t y , 
Jenkins said, Contact Mary Kate Malone at

PHOTOS BY CLAIRE KELLEY he mentioned mmalone3@nd.edu
• 


Tuesday, January 24, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

in an academic setting whichFaculty cuts down on the audience ... it takes away a voice of stu­continued rrom page 1 dents," Phillips said, respond­
ing to Jenkins' decision that faculty member in the College this year's "Monologues" pro­of Busirwss, said she support­duction will be held in a class­ed .Jenkins' view that the room rather than on stage. "Monologues" were not tho "And that, for lack of a better appropriate means to achiev­phrase, isn't right." ing the ends of eliminating vio­Film, Television and Theatre lI~ nee against women and chair Peter Holland's com­affirming tlw gift of tlwir bod­ments for Jenkins led to the ies. Slw also took it one step most heatod exchango of the furtlwr, denoundng tho scan­night, as Holland expressed dal and degrada-worry about the tion of both president's 
soxns she said "The reason that {the "finely discrimi­carne with the Vagina Monologues/ nated judgment play. of what is
is on this campus is 
Borrowing a acceptable and phrasn .Jenkins because it was what is not." used to describe chosen by the T h e the conse­University is a
students." 
quences of losing place [for) intel­a diverse and lectual discus­
o JHHI u n ive rs ity Emily Phillips sion...works we 
environment, assistant professor disagree with O'Brien said if should be per-the moral path formed, read pavml by the "Monologues" is and discussed, and I'm con­followed, "we will lose our cerned about where we're souls." going to draw the line," 
Emily Phillips, assistant pro­Holland said. fessor of Film, Television and Holland and Jenkins then Theatre, opposed this view­argued about how the frequen­point, ushering the role of the cy of a certain performance students who annually per­al'fects its acceptability at form the play back into the Notre Dame, with Jenkins say­oquation. ing "The Vagina Monologues'" 
"The reason that this play is annual occurrence implied the hero on this campus is because University's continued it was chosen by the students endorsement of the play's val­... To take that away from ues, and Holland countering them and to say it can only be there was no play his depart­ment would sponsor every body and a number of other year, regardless of its relation­issues" appeared to be "inten­ship to Catholic teaching. tionally offensive" and even 
Holland, in response to the "blasphemous" because of the suggestion in Jenkins' address initiative's subject matter. that a certain passion play, Doody fired back, "I ... want whose "anti-Semitic elements to register my objection to are clearly and egregiously naming Our Lady the patron of opposed to the the pretty and values of a the proper and
''I'm concerned
Catholic universi­the limited, [for] ty," would not be about where we're that is surely not shown at Notre going to draw the the kind of Dame, brought up woman I find
line." 

as a counter-her." example "The Other faculty Merchant of Peter Holland comments during Venice" -the the formal ses­
FIT chair 
Shakespearean sion spoke to play notorious for broader con­its anti-Semitic overtones, cerns, including the true defi­which is set to be performed nition of sponsorship-which, on-campus in a month by the "not censorship," Jenkins said Actors from the London Stage. was his focus -as well as the 
Margaret Doody, a professor separation between the views of English whose sarcasm­of the University and its con­laced comments stirred the tingent members and depart­most laughs from the crowd, ments. had likewise brought up "The In the more relaxed setting Merchant of Venice" in the of the Performing Arts Center larger context of the promises lobby as clumps of faculty of freedom made by both members drifted around fol­Christianity and universities, lowing the 20-minute formal warning against the possibility session, the discussion turned of slipping back into a restric­to the topic of discussion itself. tive era in higher education ''I've been on the faculty for akin to McCarthyism. 26 years, and this is the first 
She also firmly spoke against time I've seen a forum like this Jenkins' statement that the where people were invited to name of the initiative "Her discuss deeply held feelings Loyal Daughters" -the "Her" and issues," said Teresa referring to the Virgin Mary -Phelps, professor of law and calling for student papers on Kroc fellow. "sexual experience, abortion, Jenkins was several times contraception, theology of the praised for his "bravery" in making such a strong move so early in his presidency. 
"It was really a courageous thing, for a nnw president to put himself out thern in such a way that he is open for discus­sion with the faculty but is at the same time standing for an opinion," said Daniel Groody, assistant professor of theology. 
Gail Bederman, professor of history, agreed. 
"It was an extrnmnly positive thing to do, and certainly not an easy thing to do, gntting in front of the faculty who !Jenkins! knows have very strong opinions on these issues, just laying them out for folks to engage with," she said. 
Though Bederman said she disagreed with Jenkins' stance on "The Vagina Monologues" and similar events -saying that to exclude thmn from tlw University would "shut down a lot of hard intelleetual work" -she fully embraced his open approach to deeision-making. 
'"Authority versus Academics,' this is a huge issue that has been dealt with for quite awhile," she said. "[Jenkins! has to make the hard deeisions, and for him to stand up and say, 'I'm happy to talk, we can have a forum' ... I just hope the faculty and students realize what a model this is at what should happen at a university." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 



THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 
Tuesday, January 24, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
Republic for sale 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dome, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BOSINFS$ MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROI.LER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4 543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAllY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHoro DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONUN£ www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint MaiY's College. Editori<U content, including advercl$emenrs, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infunnacion. 
Q;=rions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Hdninger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

l'I»Obscrvt<(USl'S 59'1 HOOO) ;, puhli>b<d Mood'J' through !lriday """!" ducing ~xam and vaation periods. Asub$ctipti~m t:tt The O~t ~ $l00 fur <>nt academic" yc:an $5:§. ((lr one $¢mest:~r. 
The O~rver is published .al: POSTMASTER 

024 Sourh Dioiog H<lil Send addres~ C(l{tt!C'tium ~o; NQtre DIUlle. .IN ~GS'%..0779 11>: Obl<ervor Periodtt:aJ _poo:~e ~id ;f;t NoEn!'O~tmt: ~0.1»•719 and addicion.U m;Uting off'!(:<!$-. .()24 Soudt.Din.ing Hall 
Nurlt Dame, IN 46~56.o779 
Tht Obs~:r\'1:£ l.s ,a member oftb.e ~ted ~-All ttpf'tlducdon tlghu al't 
'"""""· 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Nicole Zook Dan Tapetillo Peter Ninneman Jack Thornton Kaitlynn Riely Jay Fitzpatrick Viewpoint Scene Alyssa Mark Brauweiler Bemenderfer Graphics Kelly MacDonald 
American politics has devolved into the art of gaining and maintaining power. The two major political parties cast off ideological beliefs when they appear to be politically damaging and thus run the risk of losing re-election. The recent corruption scandals are indica­tive of the crumbling ethical foundations that are necessary for the maintenance of a republic. Republics rely upon the people entrusting statesmen of their choosing to carry out governance for benefit of the body politic. If the states­men are not ethical and the people's trust is misplaced, then the social contract particular to a republic begins to be torn. 
Contemporary American events show the bonds of our republic being strained and put to the test. This is not to say America is in danger of abandoning its representational system, but rather that America is in danger of continuing to function as an actual, healthy republic. The largest danger is presented by the role that large monied interests continue to exert upon the state via lobbyists. Lobbying has evolved to the point where influential powerbrokers funnel enor­mous sums of money to politicians with the understanding that a quid pro quo will occur. Timorous politicians, deathly terrified of losing their positions, accept these "campaign contributions" and then proceed to forward the agenda that the particular lobbying group is interested in. The will of the people is bypassed, and government becomes a republic of inter­ests. Powerful interests help to make and break politicians by their contributions; many politicians have decided that their true electorate consists of these interests, and have accordingly governed in their benefit and not that of the body politic. 

I an Ronderos 
Liberated 

The Jack Abram off scandal has brought a widespread problem to the forefront of the national news. The man crept so deep into the roots of American government that had faced or faces investigations by the Justice Department, the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, the IRS, the Department of the Interior and the FBI. He has already plep guilty to three felony charges and has been connected to numerous members of congress from both parties -most prominently Representative Bob Ney from Ohio. Lavish contributions, personal gifts and exotic trips were bestowed upon promi­nent politicians of both parties. The bless­ing of the enormity of his crime is that it brings to light a serious problem in American politics. Abram off and his client politicians are by no means alone-in the recent few years many other less dra­matic, yet equally troubling, scandals and convictions have occurn~d. The former governor of my home state, Connecticut, John G. Howland, accepted free work from contractors to improve his weekend cottage and pled guilty to corruption charges on Dec. 24, 2004. For brevity's sake, I will pass over the numerous other examples of corruption that have come to light within the recent years. 
It is not enough merely to decry the sad state of public corruption; rather, a solu­tion must be posited. Complaining about a problem never solves it; one must arrive at a solution if anything is truly to be done. As the influence of wealthy inter­ests has grown to the point that it is deeply entrenched in the current political status quo, it is imperative to cull this venomous root. Campaigns should be publicly funded with equal funds assigned to the two major parties. A threshold of signatures could be required where if met a third party would be allowed to receive funds as well, corresponding to the amount of support they can demonstrate. The threshold should not be high, because the two-party system is already far too entrenched to begin with -this entrenchment has created a system where the two major parties are essen­tially coalitions of various interests that have united in an effort to get a voice in governing. This system could indeed pro­mote the growth of third parties by allow­ing them access to federal funding and by eliminating fundraising from the equa­tion. The elimination of fundraising from political parties would help to eliminate the vast logistical barriers that exist for third parties to challenge the well-estab­lished and powerful Democratic and Hepublican parties. 
The rise of third parties would most likely have a positive eflect upon the cor­ruption that is plaguing the current American political scene. Although the majority of current corruption scandals seem to involve Hepublicans, the issue is not contained to one party. It is true that the Republican politidans are to blame and the party must be held accountable, but the faet that more Hepublicans seem to be implicated has a lot to do with the faet that they control all the curnmt branches of government. If the Democrats were in control, the lobbyists would apply more pressure on them, and their internsts seem to be the same as the Republicans'-namely, the acquisition and maintenance of power. New blood needs to be injected into the system. This increased competition from less-estab­lished parties would increase pressure upon the two major parties to become more ethical and refrain from accepting favors from lobbyists. 
Ian Ronderos is a senior majoring in the Classics with a supplementary major in Ancient Greek and Roman Civilizations. Having retired from the College Republicans and adopting inde­pendent politics, he has entered the pri­vate life ofpeaceful contemplation. Ian can be contacted at irondero@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
What should Notre Dame do about the Queer Film Festival and the Vagina Monologues? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

Sb ·~t Ltt ...
u>liD .•. a_: .e ! Jer 1 
to tbe Editor at I 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 1 
F 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Men occasionally stumble over the truth, but most of them pick themselves up and hurry offas ifnothing ever happened." 
Sir Winston Churchill former prime minister of England 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, January 24, 2006 page I 1 
U-WIRE 
To thEJ President of the United States of America: 
I'v11 reeently become aware that you signed an executive order bypassing dun proeess in wiretapping cases. Whnther or not you bPiieve it, you'vn Ramsey ov11rsteppnd your Tesdell wartime presiden­tial powers. 
Iowa State 
You've allowed the 

University
fnar and hysteria of Iowa State Sept. 11 tPrrorist 
Daily

attaeks to breach our eountry's eonsti­
tutional foundations. 
Let me explain how you havn failed as president. 
During your inauguration, you swore to uphold and protect the Constitution Qf' the UnitHd States of America. You swore to do this over thn Holy Bible. But the media has Hxposed your latest and most horril'ic lies and put them before the public oye. Your gross disrngard for the Constitution has pulled us hauntingly nearnr to a state ruh1d by a dictator. You said yourself, "Being president would be a lot easier if it were a dic­tatorship." What a frightening thing for the leader of the free world to say. 
You said we went to war in Iraq bneause of weapons of mass destruc­tion, but you couldn't share the source of this information because 
Dear Mr. President 
that would compromise national secu­rity. Some believed you, and our nation marched off to war. When the weapons couldn't be found, your justi­l'ication IWolved to say Saddam posed a risk to democracy and the free world. You accused him of gassing the Kurds and attacking Kuwait unpro­voked, horrible aetions that we know Saddam undertook. But you never mentioned that Saddam got those chemical weapons from the United States during and after the Ronald Reagan administration, and apparent­ly got rid of them before your inva­sion. 
Your administration's philosophy is based on lies and deception. And because of it, people have died ­countless innocent civilians in Iraq and Afghanistan and more than 2,000 of our brothers and sisters in the mili­tary. I have more respect for these men and women than I ever will for you. 
Mr. President, you promised to make the world safer. You promised that you would rid the world of "evil­doers" and bring democracy and jus­tice to the heathens. You have done just the opposite: We live in fear of terrorism at home, terrorism abroad and an overall rise in religious funda­mentalism. Our country has seen the highest national debt in recent histo­ry. our educational system is becom­ing too expensive for the people and we've let Americans suffer because of the incompetence of government agencies such as the Federal Emergency Management Agency, whieh you stuffed with unqualified cronies. 
Your war in Iraq, the prison abuses, your lies to the American people and your utter incompetence have caught up to you. You have done nothing to make us safer and everything to make our world more dangerous. 
You will be remembered in the his­tory books, just as you wished, but not for stunning speeches or epic poli­cy. Instead, you will be remembered as the president whose exit strategy was foiled by a locked door or as the president that did the most damage to our Constitution by failing to protect it. 
I have some suggestions, Mr. President, to help solve the problems you've created. 
+ At home, repeal your authoriza­tion for the National Security Agency to spy on U.S. citizens and repeal the Patriot Act. If you think someone has suspected terrorist connections, fol­low due process and seek permission from a court to listen to his or her conversations. Do as you swore in your inauguration and protect our freedoms and liberties by defending the Constitution. 
+ 
Develop an exit strategy in Iraq, and ask the world for help. You've ousted a horrible dictator; now use the opportunity to help the Iraqis cre­ate a modern Arab state that balances the principles of Islam with the virtues of democracy. Don't allow oil, military and reconstruction contracts to dictate how and when we leave Iraq.

+ 
Support people here in the United States. Instead of cutting l'inancial aid and loan programs to students, Medicare coverage for the poor and Social Security benefits for the elder­ly, you should slash unnecessary and wasteful projects within the military's bloated budget. 


Mr. President, you have failed us as a leader when we needed one most. You have failed us at home, and because of this, failed to convey the message of peace, democracy and jus­tice to the world stage. 
This column originally appeared in the Jan. 23 issue of the Iowa State Daily, the daily publication at Iowa State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

Intelligent design: Fact or fiction? 
From the earliest times of recorded history, humanity has been obsessed with its origins. Where did lifll begin, why and most importantly, how? Various religions sprang up, eaeh with their own creation story. Some of these stories w11re vastly dif­fnrllnt from one another; others werll dosely related. Th11 people Carrie accepted these stories, as they Weidner rnally had nothing else to go on, and the beliefs were of'len 
Multiple Texas 

irnposnd upon them by their soci.e­Campuses ty. 
The Austin 
As human civilization grew, so 
Student 

did their ideas. Creationism reli­gions evolved, divided, united and soon became the religions they are today. However, seience itself also grew, rapidly giving itself a name as a source of secular explanation, a way to view the earth without assuming, as the religions did, a higher power. To science, human exploration of the earth was the only method of explanation. 
The most infamous of these secular scientists, although he himself was a Christian, was Charles Darwin, whose name has become synonymous with his theory of evolution and natural selection. His idea refuted the basic Christian teaching that God created all beings as they were, are now and will be in the future. However, his theories were basically accepted and remain so today, with modifications caused by advances in science and further experi­mentation. Because of this general acceptance, Darwinism is now taught in most high school biolo­gy classes. 
Recently, though, the Creationists have risen up, as they have in the past. and are protesting the teaching of evolution in the classroom, claiming that it is no more than a theory. They believe their views, more commonly known as intelligent design, should also be presented in biology classes. There are some problems with this view. First and fore­most, creationism and evolution are not competing theories, never have been and never will be. Intelligent design, the idea that an unknown higher power exists, has no relevance to science. It speaks of the origins of life, not of what happened after­wards. Evolution does not regard how the life on this planet came to be, it merely attempts to describe what happened after that. For a scientific theory, evolution is fairly solid, although it has its holes. Then again, even Newton's laws have their holes (they don't hold at the quantum level). 
Intelligent design is not science. Karl Popper, the Austrian philosopher, claims that an integral part of scientific hypotheses is their ability to be disproved. There is always a chance remaining that everything we hold to be scientil'ically true will be thrown out the window tomorrow. That is part of science as a construct of the imperfect human mind. 
There is no theory to intelligent design. It cannot be proven or disproved, because it assumes a high­er power as an explanation. Belief in this higher power is a matter of faith, and faith is not science. 
The truth is, no one can explain the origins of life scientifically. Stephen Hawking, the famous physi­cist, claimed that at the origin of the universe, all of the laws of nature come to a singularity. This is sci­ence-talk for "no one has a clue." Does this mean we should stop looking? 
This column originally appeared in the Jan. 23 issue of The Austin Student, the daily publication at many Texas universities. 
_The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

College students decide value of education 
The first literacy study to target the skills of graduating students found that more than half of students at four-year colleges -no matter their field of study -lack the literaey to handle seemingly mundane real-life Staff tasks, the Associated Editorial Press reported 
Friday. University of 
The study found Houston that most students The Daily could perform mod­Cougarerately challenging tasks such as identifying a location on a map, but they often lacked "profi­cient" skills-those needed to per­form more complex tasks. Many stu­dents could not understand the argu­ments of newspaper editorials, com­pare credit card offers with different interest rates and annual fees or inter­pret a table about exercise and blood pressure. 
Those results are more than a little frightening. 
College students, the intellectual elite of yesterday, have become the intellectual mediocrity of today. 
The "college lifestyle" may account for some of the deeply saddening results. Perhaps the partying that comes with being immersed in an environment dominated by young peo­pie and alcohol is partially to blame ­something that does not affect UH as much as it does other schools. 
UH is largely a commuter school, and as such, many students need to work one or two jobs and pay their own bills regularly. That kind of real­life experience undoubtedly helps stu­dents improve their pragmatic literacy. 
That said, the results are still dis­heartening at best. The only silver lin­ing to be plucked out of the study's storm clouds seems to be the fact that college students had an average litera­cy score significantly higher than other adults. But even that can be mis­leading. Adults who did not make it past middle school were also included in the group of "other adults." 
As depressing as the results are, they also serve as a reminder that a college education is only worth as much as each individual experience, and it looks like the responsibility to get a quality education has fallen to each individual student as well. 
This editorial originally appeared in the Jan. 23 issue of The Daily Cougar. the daily publication at the University ofHouston. 
The views expressed in this editorial are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 



Learning from 
•

movie romance 
As January melts away into February, one can't help but think of the chalky conversation hearts, red roses and love-or sugar-induced euphoria that the upcoming month 
inevitably brings. Furthermore, with Valentine's Day looming on the horizon, some of us might feel the need to quickly master the art of romantic relation­ships in time to 


receive Valentine's 

affections in a Mary Squillace form that does not merely consist of Scene Critic 
the words "Love, Mom." 

However, in an environment where the road to romance is often the same path that leads to TC on the weekends and "dating" does not entail actually going on a date ever, where can Darners turn for guid­ance? 
By now, our compulsive insideND checks have revealed that romance isn't exactly an integral part of aca­demia. And by turning to parental wisdom, we run the risk of hearing them recount personal tales of "going steady" back in the day ... or worse. Instead, seeing as most Hollywood films are synonymous with "happy endings," we can turn to the seemingly foolproof antics of some of our favorite characters in hopes that, by emulating them, we too will be graced with all the love Hallmark can provide. 
First of all, deception and false · pretenses are key. Sure, all our lives we've heard that honesty is the best . policy, but according to the relation­ships that unfold on the big screen, a little white lie, or even a false identi­ty, is the ticket to true love, as long as the truth surfaces eventually. 
Fabricating a name, profession or identity are practically commonplace when it comes to cinematic cou­plings. Just check-out "Wedding Crashers" or "Maid in Manhattan." In fact, going as far as dressing in drag seems to be a great way to break the ice and ignite some kind of passion, as illustrated by films like "Tootsie" and "Shakespeare in Love." 
Also in this vein, relationships that are spawned from some kind of bet or deal end particularly well. "She's All That" and "How to Lose a Guy in Ten Days" both lend themselves to this notion. 
Of course, any romantic hero is only as good as the dramatic ges­tures he or she makes. While Shakespeare's Romeo set the trend centuries ago with his impromptu visit to Juliet's balcony, his success has been cemented on screen by a variety of love-struck characters, such as "Say Anything"'s Lloyd Dabbler, who sends his love via a stereo, courtesy of Peter Gabriel's "In Your Eyes." 
Although, if the prospect of shout­ing sweet nothings to a second floor window on Notre Dame Avenue rais­es the concern of a potential restraining order, there are plenty of other outlets for expressing your most heartfelt romantic emotions. Take "The Wedding Singer"'s Robbie Hart, for example, who offered the object of his affection an original song. 
Regardless of how the sentiment is expressed, there also appears to be a particular pattern that might help us all select Ms. or Mr. Right. Straight­laced, uptight males should be seek­ing their more cheerful and eccentric counterpart in the women they date. This formula proves to be flawless in the films "Pretty Woman" and "Along Came Polly." 
Though, this trend is not strictly limited to typical romantic comedies. Even films with critical acclaim and audiences within more of an indie market point to the "opposites attract" paradigm. "Garden State" and "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" offer similarly-con­structed relationships. Shy, brooding boy meets kooky or volatile girl, and voila! A life-altering love affair ensues. 
Finally, as the movies have it, in order to cement a Hollywood-esque romance, it is essential that you take part in any of the following: literally bumping-into someone, some kind of chase or embracing in front of a crowd. Ideally, this should happen in the rain while a ballad plays in the background. 
With such realistic representations of relationships in film that can be attained through following narrative conventions, it's a wonder why any of us struggle with relationships in the first place. 
Contact Mary Squillace at msquil­la@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 

Photo courtesy of lafm.com Ben Stiller, left, faces co-star Jennifer Aniston in the formulaic "Along Came Polly." Stiller plays a rigid insurance analyst while Aniston plays a wild opposite. 
----------------------------. 
Tuesday, January 24, 2006 

VIDEO GAME REVIEW 
'Colossus' a fanas 
By MARK BEMENDERFER Assistant Scene Editor 
"Shadow of the Colossus" is a cinematic masterpiece. It's not the latest Hollywood blockbuster, nor an independent cinema production. It is a game for the PlayStation 2 and is completely different from any other game available. 
The game follows the notion that beauty lies in simplicity. The story is minimal, as the player is never completely certain what is going on. All that is known is a girl is possi­bly dying, or may be already dead. The pro­tagonist takes the girl to an isolated temple, where a disembodied voice promises to restore her if the colossi are slain. Who the girl is, or the protagonist is, are never explained. Why the world is so empty is also never explained. It is simple, but it is within that simplicity that an awe-inspiring cine­matic genius is found. 
Stripped down to its base nature, "Shadow of the Colossus" is a series of video game boss battles. Before every boss, the player is given a general direction in which to travel. The digital avatar then travels through the landscape, navigating cliffs and valleys on horseback, before confronting the boss. The bosses themselves take only a few minutes to dispatch, and then the player moves onto the next one . 
But to boil the game down to that descrip­tion would be to deny what makes the game, in a word, beautiful. The world in which the game resides is fantastic and is the equiva­lent to any Peter Jackson blockbuster. Almost completely devoid of life, it manages to convey a sense of sorrow, isolation and grandness in scope that has to be seen to be believed. Whether one is traveling along the edge of a cliff, or through the dry bed of a lake, the game is always equally gorgeous, pushing the aging PlayStation 2 hardware to its limits. 
It is the small touches that make the land so vibrant and add to the isolation of the experience. The player can travel through the game without observing any signs of life for minutes, and then a solitary hawk will appear to follow avatar. Just as quickly as it appears, it will disappear, leaving the player alone once again. Instances like this remind the player that they world is not completely empty, but that it is a lonely place. 
This majestic, isolated qualities are also used to describe the colossi in the game. Each colossus is unique and magnificent in scope, often dwarfmg the player. They wan­
der around the world, each in 
their unique environment, and wait for the player to make his
Shadow of the 
appearance. Once the player meets the
Colossus 
colossus, the battle occurs. Each of the colossi behaves and reacts differently. Some are
SCEI 

almost the same size as the pro­tagonist, while others complete­ly overwhelm him in size and scope. Some are airborne, while others swim through surf and 
VIDEO GAME REVIEW 
'DDR Extreme· 2' a 
By MARK BEMENDERFER Assistant Scene Editor 
The latest iteration of the college party game of choice has been released. It's not the next "Halo" or "Smash Brothers," how­ever. It is "Dance Dance Revolution Extreme 2" for the PlayStation 2 and continues the brand's tradition of excellence. 
"Dance Dance Revolution," or as it is more commonly known, "DDR," is a rhythm-based video game in which players are encouraged to groove to a gamut of different songs. While it is possible to play the game using the standard controller, that is generally not the preferred method by any "Dance Dance Revolution" fan. Dance mats can be pur­chased and used in conjunction with the game, which is the tool of choice when play­ing the game. 
A new tool was added, however, with the original "Dance Dance Revolution Extreme." The Sony Eyetoy can now be used with the game to increase the depth of the game play. Instead of simply using feet to play the game, hands are also used. The Eyetoy plays a real-time video of the player, casting them upon the screen. This increases the game's usefulness as a social event. 
However, the main draw for every "Dance Dance Revolution" game is the music. Previous versions were known for their use of Japanese pop, and remakes of famous songs. Some Western music was employed, such as with the use of Dirty Vegas and Kylie Minogue. But the majorities of the songs were techno, or of the aforementioned pop variety. · 
"Dance Dancer Revolution Extreme 2" knows its history and follows this trend. The majority of the songs are once again techno remixes and Japanese pop. Fan favorites such as "Dive," "Brilliant 2U" and "Dynamite Rave" all make reappearances, among other returning favorites. Other favorites have been remixed, such as Captain Jack, "Candy <3" and "Sana Mollete Ne Ente (B.L.T. Style)." 
Despite this emphasis on techno and pop, some of the new songs will appeal to fans of popular American music. Sean Paul makes an addition to the music library with "Get Busy," while Beyonce Knowles lends "Crazy 
in Love." There is a grand total of 7 4 songs in the game, with 50 of them initially locked. They can be unlocked through com­pleting challenges of varying difficulty in the game. 
The only truly new addition to the series is the use of an online mode however. For the first time, "Dance Dance Revolution" fans on the PlayStation 2 can play the game online. However, the game is vastly more fun and 




ic cinematic quest 
Photo courtesy of gamespot.com "Shadow of the Colossus," available on the PlayStatlon 2, Is a unique game that offers players the chance to roam a large fantasy world. 
sand. But what is consistent through them is the feeling of adrenaline that each one induces. 
Taking down each of the colossi is accord­ingly a unique alTair, with some of them rnquiring more thought than others. Some can only be taken down while on horseback, while others rnquirn the use of the bow. But through using all the tricks the player has, lw can finally get onto the colossus. That is thn first part of thn battle. 
Once the player has found a way onto the eolossus, the digital avatar has to dimb over thn giant beast trying to find the weak point. 
groovy dance-fest 
onttJrtaining when played in a group, so this new mode may not find much use. However, for thosn lonely nighl'i, this added competi­tive mode may add a better spark to the game. 
An updatnd mode to the game is the digital avatar. This character is chosen when the player starts the game and will dance on­screen as the player plays through the songs. The avatars do not show up for every song, and their indusion is purnly cosmetic. llownvnr, them are several from which to choosn, half of which are initially locked. 
While this is going on, the colossus is trying to shake ofT the little pest, or push him off using the wind or water. 
But once the colossus is slain and it topples to the ground, a feeling of sadness mixes with the triumph. The majestic creatures, despite their fantastic properties, still man­age to evoke a degree of sympathy from the gamer, a rare trait in games. "Shadow of the Colossus" is an amazing game and should be a necessity for any gamer. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 

Playing through the game and accumulating poinl'i is the only way to unlock them. 
"Dance Dance Revolution Extreme 2" is a solid addition to the already large library of games bearing the name. There are not too many new additions to the game, but that's not where the main draw for the game lies. The core gameplay has remained intact, and with the added new songs, this game should find space in any gamer's library. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at 
mbemende@nd.edu 

By LIZ HARTER 
Scene Critic 

Music fans rocked out Saturday at Saint Mary's first ever Battle of the Bands competition. A crowd of approx­imately 50 people gathered in the College's student center to listen to four bands and two solo artists, all Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students. 
The performers were competing to open for the nationally-touring group Phantom Planet when they play at "SMC Tostal" this spring. The winner also received 24 hours studio record­ing time. 
Emo-rock band Somersault opened the show and was well received by the crowd as they preformed three origi­nal songs. Their music got everyone out of their seats and gathered around the stage. 
Following Somersault was solo artist Robbie Hazen. Hazen really worked the crowd, performing five cover songs while asking the audience to sing along if they knew the words. He also sang three original songs and infused humor into his set, making fun of his roommate with one of his songs, which the crowd seemed to really enjoy. 
Slap Bracelet Suicide, the self-pro­claimed "only metal band at Notre Dame" took the stage next, treating the crowd to non-stop music with great beats. The audience really got into their set, dancing and yelling for the band. 
"I liked how Slap Bracelet Suicide interacted with the crowd," stated audience member Lindsey Appelquist "They were different from the Notre Dame norm, which was a welcome contrast." 
The crowd seemed to dwindle after intermission, though they missed another crowd favorite, two-man group Hyde. At the beginning of the four-song set, people were still trick­ling back into the concert, though after the first song Hyde played, most were riveted. 
"The lyrics were original and seemed heartfelt," stated student Deirdre Hayden. "The piano was a nice touch too." 
While Slap Bracelet Suicide got a heavy amount of praise when they 
were announced, it seemed as though Hyde won the crowd over by the end of their set with their subdued sounds. 
The second to last performer, Hyan Connaughton, also played cover songs. He got everyone singing when he played his acoustic version of the pop­ular Fall Out Boy Song "Sugar We're Goin' Down." lie had an interesting voice and kept the attention of the crowd throughout all five of his songs. 
The final performer of the evnning was the group Speedplay, which brought the energy of the show back up for its finale. They had to think fast when their guitarist's string broke at the end of the first song, but they held on to the crowd throughout. 
While all of the bands provided something for all musical tastes, the judges had to choose one to take the top prize. The judges, music producer and sound engineer Ulysses Noriega and the indie-rock band Thornbird, chose Slap Bracelet Suicide for first place. Before announcing the winners, the judges stated that there had been a lot of disagreement between them. However, Francesca Johnson, presi­dent of the Class of 2009, claril'ied later in the evening that the judges said Slap Bracelet Suicide showed a lot of creativity for that particular type of music. 
All the performers from Saturday received studio time, and Hobbie Hazen, who came in second place, also won a Thursday spot at Legends. 
The disagreement over the winner did not just stay between the judges. 
"Hyde was poorly placed because they had original lyrics, which was mesmerizing," said audience member Valerie Patterson. 
The Battle of the Bands raised money to benefit Hiley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis. It was the first of the fundraisers planned by the freshman board to raise money for this cause, which will culminate in the Dance Marathon in April. 
"We're still looking for dancers," Johnson adds. 
Students can contact Saint Mary's First Year Board for information regarding this event. 
Contact Liz Harter at lharter@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of aslcatpolly.com The indle-rock group Thornblrd made an appearance for Saint Mary's battle of the bands, choosing student band Slap Bracelet Suicide for first place honors. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, January 24, 2006 
NBA 

McGrady stays hot on the road, scores 41 in win 
Nuggets extend winning-streak to six games as Anthony pours in 37 against struggling Raptors in 107-101 victory 
jumpers by, who else, McGrady. Anthony was just too much 
Associated Press 

He was pulled with 1:25 left, and too efficient -sinking 13­and the Bucks ended the 9-of-16 shots from the floor a dayMILWAUKEE -Houston minute drought with a free after missing 15 of 19 at San coach Jeff Van Gundy has no throw by Jermaine Jackson. Antonio. He also hit 10-of-12 
idea why Tracy McGrady is so Milwaukee missed 17 consec­free throws. 
tough on the road. utive shots. Earl Boykins added 16 pointsMcGrady scored 41 points, "You can deal with some of for the Nuggets. Mike James led including 14 straight in the the jump shots he made, he's Toronto with 22 points, Jalen fourth quarter, to lead the been making them all season," Rose had 21 and Chris Bosh Rockets to a 97-80 victory over Bucks guard Mo Williams said. scored 18. the Milwaukee Bucks on "But he kept making daggers, a James scored Toronto's last Monday night. dagger here and a dagger seven points of the first half,He is averaging 30.7 points in there. At the same time, we giving the Raptors a 54-52 lead 
18 road games -including were digging ourselves in a hole at the break, but Anthony hit a 
38.0 in the last seven -and by n_ot making shots." jumper and a three-point play,
19.1 points in nine at home. then fed Andre Miller with a "You can't explain it," Van Nuggets 107, Raptors 101 shoulder-flip assist to cap an Gundy said after his team Eighty-one points it was not. 11-2 run with which Denver improved to 11-13 away from Carmelo Anthony's 37 were opened the third quarter to Houston. "He's the best road enough to lead the Denver quickly build a 63-56 lead the player in the league." Nuggets to their sixth straight Nuggets would never relin­
The Bucks trailed 76-75 after win, this one over the Toronto quish.
Andrew Bogut's basket with Raptors on Monday night. 
10:58 left in the fourth quarter The Raptors were still smart­Jazz 89, Nets 78 when McGrady went on his per­ing a day after surrendering Andrei Kirilenko had 21 sonal run. Kobe Bryant's 81 points in their points and 13 rebounds to help
McGrady hit a pair of 3-point­122-104 loss to the Los Angeles the Utah Jazz overcome Jason 

ers, a driving 10-footer, a turn­Lakers. But after watching the Kidd's triple-double and beat 
around fadeaway and two jump film in the morning, Toronto put the New Jersey Nets on Monday
shots to give the Rockets a 90-its embarrassment behind and night.
75 lead with 5:21 left. gave the Nuggets a good game. Kidd posted his league-lead­''I'm just in a nice rhythm Kenyon Martin added 25 ing third triple-double with 17 
right now," McGrady said. ''I'm points and 12 rebounds as the points, 12 rebounds and 10 

playing with a great deal of Nuggets improved to 10-2 in assists. It was the 70th of his confidence." January. Their winning streak career. However, Kidd missed Houston stretched the run to is their longest since winning 10 12 of his 15 field goal attempts. 
19 straight points after a free 

straight in March and April of Mehmet Okur scored 11 of his halftime, and the Pacers twice ing the ball over carelessly.
throw by Lonny Baxter and two last seasop. 18 points in the fourth quarter stretched the lead to 11 in the But in the third quarter, the and grabbed 13 rebounds for opening minutes of the third Celtics started hitting their the Jazz. quarter. Considering the Hawks shots and took control. Richard Jefferson had 32 have the worst record in the "l think both teams settled points, but the Nets shot a sea­league and were coming off two into 'this isn't our night mode'," son-low 33 percent. including blowout losses at home, another Boston coach Doc Rivers said. 2-for-21 from 3-point range. defeat seemed likely. "The home team has to win New Jersey s previous low was But Atlanta surged in front those games, and that's what 
34.7 percent in an 81-69 loss to before the period was over. Lue we did." Memphis on Jan. 13. helped turn things around after The Hornets shot only 36 per­
The Nets used an 8-0 run to missing four games with a sore cent (27 -for-76) and lost for just close to 63-56 early in the back. the second time in seven games. fourth quarter, but Okur made The Hawks were down 61-50 "I just thought we were terri­two crucial jumpers with the when the diminutive guard ble," New Orleans coach Byron shot clock running down in an checked in off the bench to key Scott said. "Offensively, defen­11-2 run that put the game a 16-5 run. Lue made a 3-point­sively, effort wise. I just didn't away. er, hit a couple of free throws think we came out with any 
and came up with a steal that passion tonight, for whatever Hawks 104, Pacers 94 set up AI Harrington's dunk. reason." 
The Atlanta Hawks found Raef LaFrentz added 18 themselves in a familiar posi­Celtics 91, Hornets 78 points and Pierce had 16 and tion early in the third quarter. After the Celtics had a slug­nine rebounds for the Celtics, 
Then came the unusual part gish first half, Ricky Davis who have won six of their last -the Hawks didn't fold. In fact, decided to take over. eight home games. they won the game. Davis scored 17 of his 32 Behind the outside shooting of 
Joe Johnson scored 28 points, points in the third quarter to LaFrentz, the Celtics used a 17­Tyronn Lue provided an unlike­help Boston beat the New 7 run to take a 63-51 lead mid­ly spark off the bench and the Orleans Hornets on Monday way into the third quarter. Hawks rallied in the second half night. LaFrentz hit three 3-pointers in for the victory over the Indiana "We said at halftime we're a 2:56 span and closed the Pacers on Monday night. going to pick it up in the second spree with another jumper. 
"We made shots, we milked half, and that's what we did," "We tried to make rotations plays and we just didn't crack," Boston forward Paul Pierce and stops on Ricky Davis, but Hawks coach Mike Woodson said. once he got going we couldn't said, "which was really nice to Neither team played well in stop him," said David West, who see." the opening half, missing a scored 19 of his team-high 21 
The Hawks trailed 56-48 at number of easy shots and turn-points in the first half. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 J.m. at the N_otre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Stop overpaying for rent.  1 bedroom apartment for rent  515 St. Joseph.  ND grad renting  Bahamas Spring Break Cruise!  
WANTED  Visit BlueGoldrentals.com  1 mile to campus. $575/mo. Laundry.  8 bdrms, $200/person,  bsmnt studio apt. TV+internet  5 Days from $299! Includes Meals,  
Call 283-0325  B&G Homes.  +Utilities incl.  MTV Celebrity Parties!  
Canton House restaurant now  New 3-4 Bedroom Homes,  57 4-250-7653.  574-339-0582  Cancun,Acapulco, Jamaica from  
accepting applications for fuiVpart  3 full Baths,  ROOM IN PRIVATE HOME.  $499! Campus Reps Needed!  
time wait staff. 15 mins. to ND.  2+ Car Garage,  NICE LOCATION  1706 Logan,  2-6 BDRMS. WALK2ND.  PromoCode:31  
Call574-232-8182  Fireplace,  & 8 MINS. TO ND. $475/MO.  6 bdrms,  FURN.  www.springbreaktravel.com  
or fax resume to 232-2044  Cathedral Ceilings,  CALL 574-386-7272.  $200/person,  329-0308  1-800-678-6386.  
10x20 Deck,  B&G Homes.  
FoR RENT  Close to Campus. $1700 monthly.  Blue & Gold Homes is offering a free pool table to all new tenants.  57 4-250-7653 ..  PERSONAL  Who know a rnilk carton could be a million dollar idea?  
Available  1-7 bdrms,  123NDAve.  
WALK TO SCHOOL  Aug. 06/07,  24-hr maintenance & open leases.  3-bdrm,1.5 bath.  SPRING BREAK! ­ Buffalo: worst city in America.  
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES  Call574-232-4527,  Visit BlueGoldrentals.com  Call  FREE INFO NOW!  
MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408  269-683-5038.  or call574-250-7653.  574-229-0149.  at www.seeyathere.com  Fear the wallet slap  



OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, January 24, 2006 
-
Men's College Basketball AP 
Top 25  
lt>am  record  points  
1  Connecticut  16·1  1,790  
2  Duke  11·1  1,711  
3  Memphis  17-2  1,579  
4  Texas  16·2  1,541  
5  Florida  11·1  1,530  
6  Villanova  13·2  1,429  
7  Gozaga  15·3  1,395  
8  Illinois  17-2  1,209  
9  West Virginia  14·3  1,157  
10  Washington  16·2  1,140  
11  Michigan State  15·4  1,101  
12  Pillsburgh  15·1  1,005  
13  Indiana  12·3  1,001  
14  George Washington  14·1  845  
15  NC Slate  15·3  812  
16  Ohio State  14·2  738  
17  UCLA  15·4  486  
18  Maryland  13·4  449  
19  Tennessee  12·3  420  
20  Boston college  14·1  399  
21  Georgetown  12·4  231  
22  Lousiville  13·5  219  
23  Wisconsin  14·4  186  
24  Oklahoma  11·4  166  
25  Syracuse  15·4  136  

Women's College Basketball AP Top 25 
team record points 
1 Tennessee 11·0 772 2 Duke 16·0 746 3 North Carolina 16·0 705 4 LSU 14·0 665 5 Connecticut 15·2 650 6 Maryland 14·2 637 7 Ohio Slate 13·2 559 8 Baylor 12·2 556 9 Rutgers 12·2 521 10 DePaul 16·1 503 11 Purdue 13·2 464 12 Minnesota 11·4 393 13 Arizona Slate 14·3 384 14 Michigan State 13·5 359 15 Stanford 11·4 351 16 Georgia 12·4 317 17 Oklahoma 13·4 291 18 New Mexico 13·4 218 19 Vanderbilt 13·4 217 20 Temple 12·4 126 21 Boston College 15·2 122 22 NOTRE DAME 10·5 97 23 BYU 13·1 72 24 Virginia Tech 14·1 67 25 George Washington 11·4 63 
Men's Tennis Top 10 
team 
1 Virginia 
2 Florida 
3 Georgia 
4 Illinois Urbana-Champaign 
5 UCLA 
6 Mississippi 
7 Baylor 
8 Duke 
9 Pepperdine 
10 LSU 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Kentucky at Auburn 7 p.m., ESPN Indiana at Iowa 9 p.m., ESPN 
TENNIS 
2006 Australian Open 2 p.m., ESPN2 10 p.m., ESPN2 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NFL 


AP 

Dick Jauron speaks at a press conference Monday announcing his hiring as head coach of the Buffalo Bills. Jauron had a 35-46 record in his only other NFL head coaching position, a five year stint with the Bears. 
Buffalo chooses Jauron to coach Bills in 2006 
Associated Press 

OHCHAHD PARK, N.Y. -Diek Jauron didn't need to attend Yale to learn what it'll take to make his second stint as an NFL head coach more suecessful than his first. 
"In our business, it comes out in wins and losses. And if you win, it was a great decision. And if you don't win, it was not a great deci­sion," Jauron said Monday after being hired by the Buffalo Bills. "And we know that our baek is against the wall to win." 
Jauron coached the Chieago Bears for five sea­sons, going 35-46 with one playoff appearance before being fired in 2003. It's a resume that even he acknowledges could cause some skeptieism among Bills fans. 
But it didn't stop Hall of Fame coach and new Buffalo general manager Marv Levy from picking Jauron to replace Mike Mularkey, who abruptly resigned two weeks ago. 
Jauron becomes Buffalo's fourth coach since Levy retired after the 1997 sea­son. And he takes over a team that's coming ofT a 5­11 season and missed the playoffs for the sixth straight year. 
Hiring Jauron is Levy's 
IN BRIEF 

Bulls fan will not sue Davis,
wife for incident in stands 
CHICAGO -The Chieago Bulls fan whose confrontation with Antonio Davis' wife led the Knieks forward to rush into the stands will not sue the player and his family. 
In a joint statement released Monday, Michael Axelrod and the Davises said: "It's clear that the episode at the United Center last week, and its aftermath, evolved from some misunderstandings. This has produced regrets from all parties involved. Common sense strongly sug­gests that we colleetively put this episode behind us and move on. That's what the Davises and Michael Axelrod plan to do, and we hope everyone else will, as well." 
Axelrod's attorney, Jay Paul Deratany, said in a telephone inter­view: "Both sides expressed regret for any miscommunieation that occurred. Both parties want to move forward ­with being a fan and watching the game and being a ballplayer. They've first decision since replae­ing president/GM Tom Donahoe, who was fired three weeks ago. And Levy, who attended Harvard, said he had no bias in seleeting a fellow Ivy Leaguer in Jauron, who graduated from Yale with a history degree. 
"We were seleeting the best head coaeh, the man who was going to direct it and put it all together," Levy said. 
Jauron had only one win­ning season with Chicago, going 13-3 in 2001 when he was named the NFJ:s eoaeh of the year. 
A eandidate for the Bills job when Mularkey was hirnd in 2004, Jauron spent the past two seasons as the Detroit Lions defensive eoordinator and finished last season as thn team's interim head coach after Steve Mariueci was firnd in late Novembnr. 
Jauron's hiring was backed by Bills guard Chris Villarrial, who played with the Bears during .Jauron's entire tenure. 
"You guys will sen and Buffalo fans ltre going to see that he's a true li10tball eoach, a down-to-earth guy and a winner," Villarrial said. 'The fastnr we get this thing turned around, it's going to be much better f(Jr him and for us." 

expressed their regret and that's good enough for the family. And we're sat­isfied with the result." NCAA to release RPI ratings
for first time to public INDIANAPOLIS-The NCAA men's and women's basketball tournament committees will begin releasing the Hatings Percentage Index on their Web site beginning next week. 
It marks the first time the NCAA will publicly release the RPI ratings, which are used to help select the postseason tournament fields. Updated rankings can be found at http://www.ncaasports.com from Feb. 2 through the rest of the season. 
"One of the committees' primary objectives over the last few years has been to increase the transpareney and understanding regarding the process of selecting teams for the tournament," said Craig Littlepage, chairman of the Division I men's selection committee. "We think that announcing the results of the RPI ranking on a weekly basis has its ben­
efits." Toyota will join NASCAR,
Busch Series m 2007 
CONCOHD, N.C. -Toyota is plan­ning to move up to NASCAH's top two stock ear series and not evnrybody is happy about it. 
The Japanese automaker, whid1 has competed in NASCAH's Craftsman Truck S1~ries the past two seasons, announced Monday it will also run its Camry brand in both the Nextel Cup and Busch Series in 2007. 
NASCAH ehairman Brian France gave his blessing to Toyota, telling more than 200 reporters taking part in the first day of the annual presea­son media tour "Toyota has proven in the truck series it can bn a great part­ner. NASCAH offernd them the best opportunity to build their presence in raeing in North America and we're glad they are here." 
Toyota will become the first foreign competitor in NASCAH's top series since Jaguar ran in snveral races in the 1950s. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, January 24, 2006 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Top dogs: UConn grabs No. 1 spot 

Georgetown seventh Big East team in top 25; ties all-time record 
Associated Press 
UConn is No. 1; one of seven Big East teams in top 25 
With no more unbeaten teams left, Connecticut took over the No. 1 spot in The Associated Press college basketball poll Monday. 
Two days after Duke, Florida and Pittsburgh lost, the Huskies (16-1) moved from No. 3 to the top of the rankings for the sixth time in school history and the first since a one-week run in December 2004. The Blue Devils, Gators and Panthers were the last three undefeated Division I teams. 
The Huskies are one of seven 
Big East teams in the Top 25, in anything but it's not great at this time of year. I want it at the beginning of April, but I'll take it now," Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun said Monday. "Being No. 1 isn't a goal of ours like the Big East championship or the national championship, but we feel we're one of the better programs in the country for the last 15 years and being No. 1 is another notch for us as a total program." 
Duke was No. 1 on seven bal­lots and had 1,711 points. Memphis and Texas each moved up one place to third and fourth, respectively. 
Following Florida was Villanova (13-2), which received one first-place vote, Gonzaga, Illinois, West Virginia and Washington. 
West Virginia is in the top 10 for the first time since the 

Mountaineers "Just look at the top 10 team 
Georgetown was last ranked for the first eight polls of the 2001-02 season. The previous March was the last NCAA tour­nament appearance for the Hoyas, who were 0-3 against ranked teams before beating the Blue Devils. 
"I tell our guys our success depends on what happens on the court and what people say or think about us is irrelevant especially at this time of the year because it's so early," Hoyas coach John Thompson III said Monday. "There are so many tough teams in our league from top to bottom that there is no time to sit back and enjoy something like the win over Duke. We just have to keep improving as the season goes on." 
Tennessee's victory over 
Florida was its 
second over a 
SKIING 
New Olympics, same old Tomba 
Associated Press 
TURIN, Italy -Asked what advice he'd give Bode Miller, Alberto Tomba threw his head back and let out a roar of laughter that bounced around the hotel lobby's marble noor. 
"Don't win too much," Tomba said during a recent interview with The Associated Press. 
"Then they won't make stuff up about you. Because. if you win all the time, they won't write about your victories," he said, "they'll write about your private life or things you say." 
The man known as La Bomba still is a star in Italy and figures to be in the spot­light during the Feb. 10-26 Turin Olympics-more than seven years after he retired from the slopes. 
He's still burly, still con­cerned about his image (his manager didn't want a pho­tographer present during the hour-long chat with the AP because Tomba had been traveling all day), still charm­ing and quick with a joke. 
Oh, and still fond of refer­ring to himself in the third person. 
Current skiers grew up watching him, some now try to emulate his go-for-broke competitive style, and all would probably love to accom­plish just a fraction of what he did. 
Italy's top skier at the moment and best medal hope for Turin, Giorgio Rocca, calls his predecessor a "legend" and acknowledges: "There is just one Tomba." 
Someone who would never argue with that assessment: Tomba himself. 
After all, this is a man who, after his very first World Cup victory in November 1987, told reporters: "I am really talented." 
Now 39, Tomba is wary when present-day stars such as Miller or Rocca are com­pared to him. Of Hocca, Tomba said: "Hemember, Tomba won the Olympics at 
20. He's already 30. I won 35 slaloms, he's at nine or 10.... There's more to do if you want to be Alberto's heir." 
When Italians speak about the upcoming Olympics, it doesn't take long for Tomba's name to arise. His exploits on and off the course made him an icon. 
Tomba, who said he consid­ered making a comeback about two or three years after retiring, now spends his time making appearances for per­sonal sponsors and as an ambassador for the Turin Olympics. 
He helped lobby the International Olympic Committee when the city bid for these games, and one of his endorsement deals is with a company sponsoring the torch relay. His face beams on billboards around the country, including a giant sign looking out from the ancient Homan amphitheater in Verona. 
When Hocca won a fourth straight World Cup slalom this month, Italian TV made as big a deal over Tomba's reaction to the performance as the race itself. 
Tomba won't be analyzing races during the Olym pies: "I'd rather look an athlete in the eyes and tell him what I think than say things on TV," he said, adding that he occa­sionally offers tips to Italian skiers. 
He'll certainly be part of the show next month. 
That includes the opening ceremony, although Tomba won't acknowledge that he'll be the final torchbearer. Nor will anyone from the Torino Organizing Committee; that honor has traditionally been kept under wraps. 
Everyone in Italy assumes it'll be him. 
'Til be happy if it's me. It would be like another Olympic gold." 
tying the record for most schools from one conference. The Atlantic Coast Conference and Big Ten have each done it twice, and the ACC did it most recently last season. 

Duke (17 -1), which had been No. 1 since the preseason poll, dropped one spot after losing 87-84 at Georgetown on Saturday. The win sent the Hoyas (12-4) into the Top 25 for the first time since Dec. 31, 2001. 
Florida (17 -1). second in the poll the last two weeks, dropped to No. 5 after losing 80-76 at Tennessee on Saturday. The win got the Volunteers (12-3) back in the rankings after being out for four weeks. 
Pittsburgh (15-1) lost 55-50 at St. John's on Saturday and fell from ninth to No. 12. 
Connecticut received 64 first­place votes and 1,790 points from the 72-member national media panel. The Huskies have spent a total of 21 weeks at No. 
1. The longest run was 10 straight polls in 1998-99, when they won the first of their two national championships. 
"It's always good to be No. 1 

were No. 8 on non-conference wins for this season. 
March 2, 1982. The Volunteers
our league this 
Michigan beat then-No. 6 
State was 11th weekend ... I think Texas 95-78 to followed by clearly this is the best get into the Top Pittsburgh, 25, only to fall
league in the country., 
Indiana, out the next George week following Washington, Jim Calhoun a loss to North Carolina Oklahoma
UConn coach 
State, Ohio State, UCLA, Maryland, Tennessee and Boston College. 
The last five ranked teams were George-town, Louisville, Wisconsin, Oklahoma and Syracuse. 
In addition to Connecticut and Georgetown, the Big East had Villanova, West Virginia, Pittsburgh, Louisville and Syracuse in the Top 25 to match the record. 
"Just look at the nonconfer­ence wins for our league this weekend, West Virginia wins at UCLA and Georgetown knocks off Duke, I think clearly this is the best league in the country," Calhoun said. "You could lose three, maybe even four games in the conference and still win the championship, it's that com­petitive and deep." 
State. They lost  
at  LSU  and  
Memphis  before  beating  
Florida.  

"I don't think the ranking is going to mean anything to the coaches and the players as it relates to this team," first-year Tennessee coach Bruce Pearl said Monday. "It's just what it could mean at the end of the year and what it could mean in recruiting and what it could mean in fan support." 
Iowa (14-5), which returned to the Top 25 last week after being out for three polls, fell out from 23rd following an 85-55 loss to Michigan State. 
North Carolina was ranked for the last seven weeks, reaching as high as No. 17. The Tar Heels (11-4) fell out from 24th after los­ing 72-68 to Virginia and beating Florida State 81-80 last week. 
Bessette House ofDiscernment University of Notre Dame Congregation of Holy Cross Brothers of the Midwest Province 
Are you interested in spiritual direction? 
Would you like a place for solitude for a morning, an afternoon, a full day or a weekend? 
Are you interested in a directed one or two day personal retreat? 
Are you and a group of friends interested in guided reflection upon scripture or discernment of vocation? 
Contact Brother Philip R. Smith, CSC at 574-631-0995 
psmith@brothersofholycross.com 

Tue.~day, January 24, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Seahawks impress foes with NFC championship win 
Associated Press 
SI\ATTI.I•: -Fnw tnams ram­page through their sehndule tlw way tlw Snahawks did this season, only to lw confronted by so many doubtnrs during the playoffs. With tlu~ way Seattle manhandiPd the Carolina Pantlwrs in thn NFC championship garnn, the <:rit­ies should realizn 01111 thing: MikP llolmgrnn's tnam is for rnaI. 
Usually, it tak<)S an offnnsive star at his pnak, a finrco ddPnsP and a coaching staff with somn experiencn for a team to takn thn NI•'L's biggest priz11. 
The Seahawks have all that. 
Forget that they are ·3 1/2 point underdogs, hardly sur­prising considnring the AFC is thn stronger conference and the Pittsburgh Stnelers are on an amazing run all thn way from a sixth snPd to tho Sup<~r Bowl. 
That, and tlw t.nam from the l'aeifie Northwest. somnhow managnd to stay out of the spotlight despite a 13-3 rngu­lar season and, now, a 10-0 honw rncord. 
But as the Stenlers well know, their opponent in Dntroit on Feb. 5 is vnry for­midablt). 
"No onn is going to give us anything," tight nnd Jerramy Stnvnns said after the 34-14 win over Carolina, a game Seattln so dominated that the l'antlwrs couldn't even come up with any Hxeuses for being routed. "Wn havnn't donn any­thing in thH past." 
But what they are doing in the present is what makes champions. 
First, the Seahawks have the NFL Most Valuable Player, Shaun Alexander. Arter sHtting a league reeord with 28 touch­downs and topping the rush­ing charts, Alexandnr missnd most of the seeond-round playoff win over Washington with a concussion. lie rntu rnod to carry the ball 34 times for a dub-record 132 yards and scored twice against Carolina. 
AIPxandor is Seattle's ol'fen­sivn standby, mueh the same way Emmitt Smith was for Dallas and Terrell Davis was for Denver. There are 11ashier players around him, but he's the focal point. 
"lie's not thH type of guy that just wallows or lays down," All-Pro fullback Mack Strong said of his backfield partner. "lie comes out to compete ... and that's the rea­son he's tho MVP. llo comes out and put up MVP num­bers." 
Th<m thnre is a defense with a pass rush that can rattln anybody. Jake Delhomme had never struggled in a postsea­son gamn, but he was over­whelmed Sunday. Sacknd only twiee, ))p,Jhomme felt pressure on nearly every pass play. lie was interceptnd three times ­onn more than in his previous six playoff appearances ­and, while the oft-maligned Seahawks secondary played wnll, it was the work up front that made the difference. 
"Seattle is a very admirable team," said All-Pro receiver Steve Smith, who was shut down in the title game after 

sensational performances in first two weeks of the playoffs. "They're very experienced. Everything that team did today was superb." 
The Seahawks were pre­pared for everything Carolina could offer, from Delhomme­to-Smith to Julius PeppHrs and a dangerous defensive line to the ballhawking of cornerback Ken Lucas, a former team­mate. Credit Holmgren and his staff for that. 
Holmgren struggled early in his tenure in Seattle after win­ning one Super Bowl in Green Bay and losing another. But the ups and downs with the Seahawks, including losing some of his front-office con­trol, never steered him in thH wrong direction. 
Nor did tight playoff losses the last two years, first at the Packers in overtime, then at 
home to St. Louis. llolmgren weednd out some problnm players after the 2004 season, and felt far more comfortable with the roster this season. 
Still, you have to get every­one to perform, and he's done a wonderful job of it. 
"A couple of things happnn," Holmgren explained. "You have players who won't buy in or never buy in, or you havn guys with problems. 

OLYMPICS 
Arbitrator finds no proof Nardiello harassed team 
pension last month on allega­the U.S. Olympic Committee. pended, the USOC will creden­team, was one of those who 
Associated Press 
tions he sexually harassed two The USOC has until Jan. 30 to tial Lund for the games. testified on Nardiello's behalf. members of his team. decide. He was suspended Dec. 31 Bird said shn was thrilled by 
U.S. skt~leton coach Tim Still unelear was whether The arbitrator found no evi­after longtime skeleton team the arbitrator's decision. Nardiello should be reinstat­Nardiello would be allowed to dence to support a credible member FHiicia Canfield wrote ''I've been holding my ed, an arbitrator ruled coach at the Turin Olympics, a sexual harassment claim, the USBSF's board of directors brHath the whole time waiting Monday, overturning his sus-decision that now rests with according to a person with alleging that Nardiello tried to for thn answer to eome 
Get Your Group Started 
on a Roll... 
Apply for DICE! 

. 
-
.. -~­' 
-~ 

...;;r/ ... / 
~~·­
·!J 

The Student Activities Office is now accepting DICE applications for Spring 2006 programs. To submit an application, visit sao.nd.edu. 
**Applications are due January 31st. 
For more information contact Nicole Hackbarth at nhackbar@nd.edu 
direct knowledge of the ruling kiss her, toueh her inappropri­because I knew it would be who spoke to The Associated ately and made comments of a positive for Tim," Bird said. Press on condition of sexual nature to her and other "When I found out, I was anonymity because of the mat­female athletes. ecstatic.... Anything Tim has ter's sensitive nature. ller claims, combined with a ever said to me hasn't been 
The U.S. Bobsled and letter written by Marsha Gale uncomfortable or harassing. Skeleton Federation's board of -the mother of 2002 Olympic I've never been harassed by direetors will decide whether gold medalist Tristan Gale -Tim." Nardiello will be allowed to prompted the board to sus­Heached at his home after rejoin the team in time for the pend Nardiello. Marsha Gale the arbitrator's ruling was season's final wrote that announeml, Brady Canfield ­World Cup race Nardiello also a board member and Felida in Altenberg, made inappro-Canfield's husband -referrnd Germany, on priate com­questions to Salt Lakn City
'Tve been holding my
Thursday and ments, and attorney Mark Gaylord, who is Friday. ThH breath ... because I commented rnprnsenting six people who USBSF was knew it would be t h a t filod grinvanens against .' scheduled to Nardiello's Nardiello.
positive for Tim. " 
meet Monday relationship Gaylord deeliiwd immndiate night. with a eom­eomnwnt., saying hn wanted to 
"I hope it ends Amanda Bird petitor from wait to see what the board did then," USBSF athlete New Zealand in its me<~ting Monday night presidnnt Jim was unprofes-first. Shea Sr. said. sional. Nardiello and snveral nwm­"We'll see what Nardiello bers of tho U.S. national tnam happHns after we get a sense and the USBSF went to bind­have said the claims wern of the board." ing arbitration in Albany, N.Y. brought because Felicia 
The ruling came hours aftnr last week, with several wit­Canfield and Tristan (~ale did top Amnriean skeleton racer nesses testifying for both not make this yn<U"'s Olympic Zaeh Lund learned he will be sidns. tnam. allowed to compete at the The sides were in session for "Our ft~dnration has been Olympics. Lund was given a about 23 hours over a two-day through lwll thns1) last few warning by the U.S. Anti­period. weeks," Lund said. "Wn need Doping Agency on Monday fol­U.S. skeleton athlete to gnt past all this and start to lowing a failed drug test -Amanda Bird, who did not think only about the Olympics but bncausH he wasn't sus-make this year's national for a littln while." 
,.--------~ ~­
-~-----­
' page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, January 24, 2006 
NBA 
Kobe's 81 make guard's next goal a tall order 
Chamberlain's 100 remains the highest NBA total ... for now? 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES Wilt Chamberlain's record 1 00-point game seemed unreachable from the time he accomplished the feat nearly 44 years ago. 
Perhaps it's not. 
Maybe Kobe Bryant can do it. 

"I guess it's possible. I don't know. bro'. It's unthinkable," the Los Angeles Lakers' star said. 
So was 81. At least before Sunday night. 
But Bryant, so often unstop­pable, was better than ever against the Toronto Raptors, scoring 28 of his team's 31 points in the fourth quarter to reach the second-highest sin­gle-game total in NBA history. 
"Not even in my dreams," he said. 
Chamberlain scored 100 points when basketball was a far different game, accomplish­ing the feat for Philadelphia against the New York Knicks at Hershey, Pa., on March 2, 1962. 
There was no 3-point shot ­not that it would have mattered since Chamberlain was a 7 -foot­er who dominated the middle. 
The 6-6 Bryant made seven from outside the are. Defense was generally an afterthought when Chamberlain 
played. not that the Haptors are much good at it now. ranking near the bottom of the league in that department. 
Whatever the case, both per­formances were astonishing. 
Chamberlain shot 36-of-63 from the field and 28-of-32 from the foul line while playing all 48 minutes. He averaged an NBA-record 50.4 points per game that season. 
Bryant, playing a little less than 42 minutes, shot 28-of-46 from the llt)()r including 7 -of-13 from 3-point range, and 18-of­20 from the foul line. l-Ie raised his NBA-leading average to 35.9 points. If the season ended now, that would be the highest aver­age since Michael Jordan scored 37.1 points per game 19 years ago. 
Bryant appeared on his way to 80 a month ago, scoring a then-career high 62 in a one­sided win over Dallas. He sat out the fourth quarter because the outcome was decided after three. 
Not so Sunday night. The Raptors led by as many as 18 in the third period, and that more than anything triggered Bryant's scoring explosion, which led to a 122-104 Los Angeles victory. 
"We have four days off com­ing up here and I would be sick as a dog if we would have lost this game," he said. "I just wanted to step up and inspire us to play well and it turned into something pretty special." 


Indeed, it did as Bryant recorded just the 1Oth game ever of at least 70 points. 
Chamberlain scored 59 in the second half in his big game ­the only player with more points in a half than Bryant's 55 after halftime in this game. 
In the second half, it was Bryant 55, Toronto 42. 
"IIe couldn't be stopped tonight," Haptors guard Mike James said. "lie basically beat us by himself." 
Chamberlain's second-highest total was 78 against the Lakers in three overtimes on Dec. 8, 1961. That drops to No. 3 on the all-time list. 
Next are the 73 points scored twice by Chamberlain in 1962 and once by Denver's David Thompson in 1978. 
The only other players to reach 70 were former Lakers star Elgin Baylor, who scored 71 points in November 1960, and David Robinson, who also scored 71 for San Antonio in April 1994. Chamberlain scored 70 in 1963. 
Bryant broke Baylor's fran­chise record with 4:25 remain­ing on a 14-footjumper. 
"Scoring 81 points is a truly amazing accomplishment," Baylor, general manager of the Clippers, said in a statement. "Of course, the most important thing is that his effort con­tributed to a victory for his team." 

MLB 
New-Reds ow-ner fires GM O'Brien after only tw"o seasons 
catchers report to spring train­Baseball operations director under contract through 2006, don't know." 
Castellini says team's 
ing in Sarasota, Fla., on Feb. Brad Kullman will serve as with a mutual option for 2007. The Reds also have two pend­performance did not 16. interim general manager until a Castellini expects him to man­ing arbitration cases-with It's not uncommon for new replacement is picked. Kullman age the club this season. Adam Dunn and All-Star short­
influence his decision owners to told Castellini The Reds have been in tur­stop Felipe Lopez. 
change general he would like moil since they moved into O'Brien's top goal was to Associated Press managers so "/do understand that it•s to be consid-Great American Ball Park in rebuild a farm system that had close to the new ownership·s ered for the 2003. General manager Jim failed to produce pitchers dur­CINCINNATI -General man­start of the sea­job. Bowden and manager Bob ing Bowden's tenure. During his 
prerogative to make 
ager Dan O'Brien was fired son. New Castellini Boone were fired midway two years in Cincinnati, O'Brien Monday by new Cincinnati Heds Boston owners changes and hire new offered Lou through the inaugural season, restructured the minor league owner Bob Castellini, his first fired Dan people ... I was somewhat Piniella a with Kullman helping to fill in system and imposed pitch limits major change since he took Duquette dur­chance to until O'Brien was chosen after to end a trend of prospects get­
surprised by the move.
control of the team. ing spring become a spe­the season. ting hurt. 
O'Brien was entering his third training 2002. It's not something that cial adviser, but Kullman will have the free­O'Brien's biggest acquisition season as general manager and Omar Minaya was in my mind 24 hours the former dom to work on trades, which was left-hander Eric Milton, had a year to go on his contract. became Reds and Devil would be approved by who made $8 million last sea­
ago.
The Reds are coming off their Montreal's gen­Rays manager Castellini. For example, son while giving up a club­fifth consecutive losing season, eral manager is taking a year Kullman said teams have shown record 40 homers and has two their longest such streak in 50 three days Dan O'Brien off after Tampa an interest in outfielder Austin years left on his contract. years. before teams former Reds GM Bay agreed to Kearns, but haven't offered O'Brien also traded popular 
Castellini said he was leaning reported for buy out the what the Reds want in return. first baseman Sean Casey to toward changing general man­camp that year, final year of his "So I wouldn't be surprised if Pittsburgh last month. agers when major league own­after the commissioner's office contract. in the next week, we try to ao Castellini said the change ers approved the Reds' sale last took over the team. That move "Lou really had a year that he something," Kullman said. wasn't made because of any­Thursday. He met with O'Brien prompted Larry Beinfest to had to stay away from major "Whether it's possible or not, I thing O'Brien did. on Monday and told him he leave and become Florida's gen­league baseball," Castellini said. wanted to bring in his own eral manager. "I didn't know that at the time baseball executive. Castellini began reorganizing we talked about it. It's just not 
"There is no criticism of Dan," the Reds' front office a day after going to happen this year. And I Castellini said. "I just needed the sale was approved. He put would expect Lou to go back to my own person." chief operating officer John managing." 
Even though the club was Allen in charge of business Reds manager Jerry Narron is 

changing owners, O'Brien didn't operations, with the general expect to get fired. manager reporting to Castellini. 
"I do understand that it's new Under previous owner Carl ownership's prerogative to Lindner, the general manager make changes and hire new reported to Allen. people," O'Brien said in a phone It was a prelude to change. interview. "I was somewhat sur­Castellini said the next general prised by the move. It's not manager will decide if more something that was in my mind change is needed. 24 hours ago." ''I'm not going to get more 
Castellini expects to interview involved operationally," he said. between six and eight candi­"We're going to hire a general dates during the next three or manager and he's going to four weeks. Reds pitchers and assess his personnel." 



Tuesday, January 24, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
THIS WEDNESDAY, 
27 Dorms THE PLS ROAD­SHOW COMES TO YOUR 

One Ni 



Dear Freshman, 
In the next two years, some you will learn of the Progra1n ofLiberal Studies, 
Some of you will learn about the great books seminars and about many of the GREAT BOOKS, the most influential works of all time. 
You will tell people you would have entered the program had you known of it on time. 
You will tell people that you hope to read those books some day. But you probably won't. Unless .... 
You come learn what some PLS majors do with their lives, and it might be worth it to take advantage of a unique opportunity to see how the world has come to be since word was put to paper. 
The PLS Road-Show goes to every dorm this Wednesday. Be there when we visit YOURS! 
WEDNESDAY January 251h. PIZZA will be served 
ROAD SHOW SET-LIST 
Dorms Arrival Time Pasquerilla East Hall 5:45PM 
Knott Hall 6:00PM Pasquerilla West Hall 6:15PM Siegfried Hall 6:30PM Breen-Phillips Hall 6:45PM Farley Hall 7:00PM Keenan Hall 7:15PM Stanford Hall 7:30PM Zahm Hall 7:45PM Cavanaugh Hall 8:00PM St. Edward's Hall 8:15PM Lewis Hall 8:30PM Sarin Hall 8:45PM Walsh Hall 9:00PM Badin Hall 9:15PM Howard Hall 9:30PM Morrissey Hall 9:45PM Lyons Hall 10:00 PM Pangborn Hall 10:15PM Fisher Hall 10:30 PM Alumni Hall 10:45 PM Dillon Hall 11:00 PM Welsh Family Hall 11:15 PM Keough Hall 11:30PM O'Neill Hall 11:45 PM McGlinn Hall 12:00 AM Carroll Hall 12:15 AM 

I I I 
• 
I• I
_., 
I 
~ 
I 
~ 
I 
~ 
I 
~ ~ 
•I I I 
r page 20 The Observer + · SPORTS Tuesday, January 24, 2006 
TENNIS 
Hingis reaches Australian Open quarterfinals 

·Federer commits 58 errors, needs all five sets to defeat Haas 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia ­Martina Hingis' comeback has gone so smoothly that she's in . the Australian Open quarterfi­nals following a three-year lay­off. 
Back on the tour for just three weeks, the three-time Australian Open champion advanced Monday with a 6-1, 7­6 (8) victory over Samantha Stosur 6-1, 7-6 (8) and will face second-seeded Kim Clijsters. 
Ilingis needed four match points to beat Stosur. The five­time Grand Slam winner, who dropped off the tour because of ankle, heel and foot injuries, returned to competitive tennis Jan. 2 and hasn't lost a set at this tournament. 
"I started off very well, I knew that I had to be right there from thH' start -we both probably were very nervous," llingis said. "I knew I couldn't give her any momentum." 
On the men's side, top-ranked Roger Federer overcame an uncharacteristic 58 errors in his 6-4, 6-0, 3-6, 4-6, 6-2 fourth-round win over Tommy Haas. 
"I was really trying to just break his momentum. Tommy was making it difficult for me to play," Federer said. "To be hon­est, I like to be pushed like this." 
Hingis was in vintage form, working Stosur around with angled volleys, drop shots, pin­point lobs and a stunning, run­ning forehand crosscourt win­ner. 
But the 25-year-old twice missed chances to serve for the match in the second set and wasting three match points in the tiebreaker before convert­ing on a Stosur error. 
"I played really well the first 1 1/2 sets," she said. 
Stosur was the last Aussie in the draw and had the partisan crowd on her side. Clusters of people in pink shirts embla­zoned with "Smash 'em Sam" and waving inflatable kanga­roos chanted for her from the stands. 
Hingis became a favorite at Melbourne when she won her first Grand Slam title age 16 and won three finals in succes­sion. She lost three in a row from 2000-2002, including an '02 defeat to Jennifer Capriati when she wasted four match 
points.  
In  her  absence,  Clijsters  
became  known  locally  as  
"Aussie  Kim"  during  her  

engagement to Lleyton Hewitt -which ended last year -and remains popular. 
They're two of the six current or former No. 1-ranked players into the quarterfinals -a record for a Grand Slam tour­nament. Top-ranked Lindsay Davenport, No. 3 Amelie Mauresmo, No. 4 Maria Sharapova, No. 8 Justin 1-lenin­llardenne are the others. 
Davenport and llenin-Hardennc meet Tuesday, while 2004 Wimbledon champion Sharapova goes against fellow Russian Nadia Petrova. 
After Federer crashed simph1 overheads into the net in ·the third and fourth sets, he regained an unwavering calm opening the fifth, when he hit 18 of his 66 winners and cut his errors to six. 
Federer was 8-9 in five-set matches, including a 2-6 run from his loss to former No. 2­ranked llaas here in the same round in 2002. 

NFL 
Steelers find themselves in unfarrriliar position -favorites 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -Uh, oh, those king-of-the-road Pittsburgh Steelers aren't going to like this, not at all. 
They are four-point favorites to beat the Seattle Seahawks in the Super Bowl on Feb. 5 in Detroit after being underdogs against Indianapolis and Denver in their last two playoff games. 
That means the Steelers can no longer recite that nobody's­picking-us theme that has car­ried them through seven con­secutive victories, all but two away from home. They can no longer say that they're flying under the radar and are being overlooked even as they take down one higher-seeded team after another. 
No wonder linebacker Joey Porter, the demonstrative and very confident leader of Pittsburgh's defense, was prac­tically begging oddsmakers to make the NFC champion the favorite following the Steelers' 34-17 AFC championship game victory over Denver on Sunday. 
"Nobody's been pickin' us, don't jump on the bandwagon now," Porter said. "People are still crying about the Colts, and their stuff has been over for a week now. So pick them (the Seahawks) so we can keep our edge." 
Of course, Porter might not have felt that way if he knew the Steelers are 4-0 when favored to win the Super Bowl, as they were in the 1974, 1975, 1978 and 1979 seasons, and 0­1 as underdogs, by 13 1/2 points before losing 10 years ago to the Cowboys 27-17 in Tempe, Ariz. 
If nothing else, the Steelers' remarkable and unequaled playoff run also has quieted talk that they didn't have enough quality r()ceivers to give Ben Roethlisberger much help when opposing defenses stack the line of scrimmage to shut down the run -as the Colts and Broncos did the last two weeks. 
Hines Ward's credentials can't be disputed as a four-time Pro Bowl receiver, but there were considerable doubts when the playoffs started about whether No. 2 receiver Antwaan Randle El (no touchdown catches since the first game of the season) and No. 3 receiver Cedrick Wilson (no TO catches all sea­son) could be reliable and pro­ductive. 
But with Roethlisberger com­ing out throwing in each of the last two games, look what those receivers have done. 

Wilson, who questioned at midseason if he should have signed with a team that throws as little as the Steelers do, had five catches for 92 yards and a TO in Denver and has two scor­ing catches in the postseason. Randle El has nine catches and· a touchdown. And rookie Nate Washington, an undrafted rook­ie from Tiffin University, made his first NFL catch Sunday to keep the Steelers' first scoring drive going. 
Apparently, it hasn't been 


only Roethlisberger, Jerome scoring Bengals, Colts and Bettis and a defense that has Broncos that have gotten the allowed 1 7, 18 and 17 points Steelers to only their second respectively against the high-Super Bowl in 26 years. 


Need room to grovv? Be TRU to yourself. 
Join TruGreen ChemLawn_ 
If you love the great outdoors. you"ll enjoy great success with the 
largest. most comprehensive landscape company in the country. Get the kind of advancement opportunities you•d expect from a Fortune 500 company: 
• Complete Benefit Package for Full Time 
•Paid 
Holidays I Vacation 

•40"1 
K I Stock Purchase 



•Flexible schedules for Part Time 
•Unlimited Income Potential vve~re rooking for Sales Representatives and Service Technicians to provide excellent customer service and problem solving skills_ No experience necessary -we provide paid training! Apply at 3606 Gagnon Street, South Bend 46628 on 
VVEDNESDAV, JANUARY 25th at 6 P-In-or SATURDAY. JANUARY 28~" at"' p_rn_ 'for on!the-spot interviews. RSVP and call 'for directions at (574) 233-9700 
TruGreen ChemLawn EOE/AAIMFDV 

Tuesday, January 24, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Fa01ily 
continued from page 24 
teams while swimming for the Irish. 
This type of performance is almost expeeted of the Cavadini name by now. 
Louis and David Cavadini fall in the middle of seven children, and all their older siblings have attended Notre Dame. Katie Cavadini, who graduated in 2003, swam for four years and cap­tained the team during her senior year. 
For David Cavadini, it was not a diflieult decision to eontinue his family's tradition under the Dome. 
"We have always been really family oriented, so this has just bmm taking the next step in fol­lowing along," he said. 
The l.utkus and Bauman fami­lies have also been drawn togeth~ 500 and 1000 freestyle, and er around the swimming pool. David Cavadini finished fourth in 
Countless weekend meets and the 200 fly. early morning practices have "In the summer, I had a lot of allowed the brothers to bond and questions about school and prac­help one another. tice and how to suc­
"''ve swum with ceed here and hav­my brother my "We went after ing Doug around whole life." Danny [brothers of helped me a lot," Lutkus said. "It's Bauman said. 
swimmers] since 
nice to have him The friendly there, to have fam­we knew their advice has also ily on the team." background. " trickled down to 
The freshmen all help the remainder felt that having an of the freshman on 
Matt Tallman
older brother to the team who bene­show them the assistant coach fited from their 
ropes has helped a lot in their transi­tion to the eollegiate lifestyle and competition. They have respond­ed by stepping up late in the sea­son. 
In last weekend's meet with Cleveland State all three placed, Bill Bauman in the 200 back­stroke, Danny Lutkus in both the classmates' knowl­
edge. 

The close family atmosphere has helped develop strong team chemistry amongst all swimmers this year and is one of the keys to their success so far. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

Members of the men's swimming team cheer their teammates against Cleveland State on Jan. 
21. The Irish are currently 6-2 In dual meet action. 

"They can be kind of picky in terms of who they bring in
Oglesby 
because of how many line­
continued from page 24 men they are bringing in this year," Frank said in an inter­
tinations. 
Oglesby has Notre Dame campus sever­al times, see­ing the Irish lose 34-31 to then-No. 1 Southern California on Oct. 15 and watehing a 41­21 Notre Dame win over Tennessee on Nov. 5. 
view with The Observer visited the Monday. 
Frank believes Oglesby, if he eventually signs "If have} not with Notre Damn nnxt year,
eliminated a 
will be part of a
school." 
group of three or four lineman Josh Oglesby that Weis will bring in.
Offensive Lineman 
Notre Dame intends to sign six offensive linemen on Feb. 1 for its upcoming elass, but the Irish coaches will be able to be more selective in terms of what linemen they recruit in next year's class. 
Notes: 
+ Cornerback 
recruit Haeshon MeNeil, who verbally eommit­ted to Notre Dame on Aug. 15, made a reeruiting visit to Florida on Jan. 20. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

CLUB SPORTS 
Men's bowling finishes 38th at Blue and Gold Classic 
squads. nations' No. 1 ranked team, and Mary Bocik averaged 120 time for the Irish, with Brian 
Special to The Observer 
Captain Van Koppersmith finished sixth, just ahead of for the tournament. Hedges and Steve Feutz also 
rolled a 183 average, including Lindenwood, ranked seventh The Irish will compete this scoring points. 
Fifty-eight schools converged a 221 game, to lead the Irish. nationally. weekend in the Eagle Classic, In snowboarding competi­on Beaeon Bowl this weekend Jim Talamo averaged 163, In the women's division, the hosted by Dayton University. tion, the Irish finished third in for the eighth Annual Blue and while his brother Tom finished Irish were unable to field an both men's and women's Gold Classic. at 148. Vance McClenton post­entire squad due to illness, Skiing events. 
As the tournament is desig­ed a 141 average, and Dan and dropped to lat place. Notre Dame opened the 2006 Top three finishers for the nated Tier 1 and is the second Martin and J.B. Bertumen Top ranked Wichita State ski season at Canonsburg, men were Oliver Short, Nick largest intercollegiate tourna­averaged 160 and 150, respec­won the event, followed by Mich. this weekend. On Cottingham, and Dan ment of the season to date, tively. fifth ranked Lindenwood, No. Saturday, the Irish women Vanderwerff. Cat Dunne, many of the top ranked teams No. 11 Newman University No. 22 Purdue, second ranked placed third in team slalom. Dayna Dantzcher, and Katie in the country competed. took top honors, followed by Morehead State, No. 14 Molly Butler, Stephanie Dalton, Rehberger led the women's 
After four games, the Irish No. 14 Morehead State, No. 12 Newman and No. 15Ball State. and Sarah Rauenhorst were squad. men were in the middle of the Penn State, seeond ranked Among the Irish women, Kim the top three finishers for the Sunday's giant slalom and pack when a team slump in Wichita State, and ninth LaVigne had the top average at Irish. snowboarding results, will not the final two games dropped ranked Purdue in the top five 136, with a high game of 175. The men's squads finished be available until Tuesday, the squad to a 38th place lin­places. Allison Klein averaged 130, fourth overall in the slalom. when they are released by the ish among the forty men's Saginaw Valley State, the including a 169 high game, Joel Sharbough had the top US Collegiate Ski Association. 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, January 24, 2005 
Rutgers 
continued from page 24 
remaining, Notre Dame man­aged to make just one field goal the rest of regulation, and only a missed three-pointer at the buzzer by Georgetown's Katie Carlin saved the Irish vic­tory. 
McGraw said she has a plan for the Irish to stay on their toes against a top foe. 
"I think we just have to stay aggressive," she said. "I think we do need to control the tempo a little bit." 
Part of the problem for Notre Dame in control­ling the tempo 

will be Rutgers' "When we go into a and 8 versatile lineup. game when we're the rebounds. 
"We're looking "She's having
underdogs, we have
at different com­just a sensa­binations to see a great record tional year," how we can best against top-25 McGraw said. match up with "I think she's
teams."
Rutgers," the best point 
McGraw said. guard in "They're a diffi­Muffet McGraw America." cult matchup Irish coach Duffy, who 
facing a team with a player the caliber of Pondexter and rank­ing so high may benefit the Irish. 
"We had a little more confi­dence going into the DePaul game probably because we weren't expected to win," she said. "When we go into a game when we're the underdogs, we have a great record against top-25 teams." 
Notes: 
+ Notre Dame senior guard Megan Duffy was named Big East player of the week after leading the Irish past DePaul and Georgetown last week. In the game against DePaul, Duffy 
registered 23 points, 9 assists 
when you look at the caliber of player that they have both inside and outside." 
Sophomore Matee Ajavon is central in the Scarlet Knights' offense, second on Rutgers in assists (3.8) and points (11) per game, while only starting eight of 16 contests. 
The only one to top Ajavon in each category is Rutgers top offensive threat, senior guard Cappie Pondexter. Pondexter leads all Scarlet Knights with 22 points and 3. 9 assists per game. 
McGraw said the challenge of 
co-captained 
Team USA in the World University Games with Pondexter, was the only Irish player to break double digits in Saturday's win. Duffy had 16 points on 5-for-8 shoot­ing from the field. She finished the week 55-percent from the floor and a perfect 14-of-14 from the free-throw line. 
"She's the heart and soul of our team -a great leader for us," McGraw said. "She makes us go." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1@nd.edn 
Hoyas 
continued from page 24 

Mike Brey said. "From that standpoint the glass is half full, and we have to keep plugging. If our four losses were by an aver­age of 15 points, I could song and dance you. but we have some issues. 
"We're down to game situa­tions, and we just have to be a little bit better." 
To swing the season this week, Notre Dame must face Georgetown tonight and Villanova (13-2, 4-1) on Saturday in back-to-back home games. The Irish then go on the road Feb. 1 to meet West Virginia, the only undefeated team (5-0) in conference play. 
The Hoyas are tied with Cincinnati and St. John's for the fourth-best Big East record. Playing within the Princeton oflimse implemented by second­year coach John Thompson III, four Georgetown players sport double-digit scoring averages along a balanced box score. 
Senior forward Brandon Bowman leads the Hoyas with 
11.9 points per game, followed closely by center Roy Hibbert 
(11.3 points per game), guard Ashanti Cook (10.3) and for­ward Jeff Green (10.3). 
Bowman had 23 points, eight rebounds and three blocks in the win over Duke. 
Brey said he does not antici­pate having to drastically alter his lineup to deal with a larger Hoyas team. But the coach said he knows this Georgetown team well from last year's win and additional observation, and the 

Irish guard Chris Quinn dribbles before Michigan's Dion Harris 
on Dec. 3. 
players know defense will be a factor against a hot offensive team. 
"If you look at their team, they shot 60-some percent against a good Duke defense," Irish point guard Chris Quinn said. "It's definitely something we have to take a look at." 
Notre Dame is 1-1 at home in Big East play, its lone confer­ence win being a 92-77 victory over Providence Jan. 14. 
But the Irish have not played at the Joyce Center since the return of the University's stu­dents. 
Brey thinks a more normal game atmosphere can only help his team, despite their oppo­nents' strengths. 
"[Georgetown is] the sexiest team in the country," Brey said. "!just hope we can hang in there with them. They're really good. They're really hot. They're really confident. I'm just happy our home atmos­phere will be kind of our normal atmosphere." 
Notre Dame sits above only DePaul (1-5), who beat the Irish 73-67 on Jan. 7, and South Florida in league standings. Louisville and Providence are each 1-4 and tied with the Irish in-conference. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


? 
-· 

Social Concerns Festiva I 
Explore Local Service and Social Action Opportunities Januar~ 25, 6-8 pm 
~UNIVERSITY 01' CENTER I;OR
at the Center tor Social Concerns
WNOTREDAME SociAL CoNCERNS 




Tuesday, January 24, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ERIK POWERS and ALEC WHITE
JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
1-I~TE.N I IF \IOU 1:>0 J...e.PI \JE ''M I (lET""P N l:f
I 

"'"!'""HE.. MANAuE.R.. -------..c:!riii!JI 
{...IFf!. IS A L.OI 


I bONT" Tl-\1~~ 'iOU EASIE.~ ONe..~ WE HEAfit.b ""1"1-\E M~N. 
Re.AL-12-E.D WE CAN 

HE WA141S HIS 
1):) W I-lATE. VEE: 

'&Tfl.A W SE R..fi!...'( 
-n--ee. Ft<lua WE 

1"\tf...l< F~e:E. VJAN-r BeCAuse_ 
BSc:AuSE. He. USE.D \NE'~E E)(· NC\r.E. Pll..E.S 1 t>E. NT.S . 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
JJ[,W\~JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
VABOE 

rJ 
1 
<t>2006 Tnbune Media Services, Inc. 
r~-~~f1] 
THE: WE:ATHE:R.MAN WAS FUL-L-OF HOT 
tWHYLLO I
IJ I 
AIR. WHe:N He: 
www.jumblo.com 
FOR.E:C.AST THIS. 
REBNAY 

V I 1 1 1 Now arrange the circled letters
k ...A to form the surprise answer, as 
.__.......&.;.......::..u...-..o,___,__ _,____, suggested by the above car-
Answer here: 
Al I I I JrI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: LUNGE POPPY CLOTHE FEMALE Answer: What the farmer faced when it was time to store the hay -A"LOFT-Y" GOAL 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

-:-:+;,+=+:::-! 22 ''Too-ra-loo-ra­47 Main arteries
ques.

38 Washington's 48 Peter Lorre role25 Two­
57 Autobahn auto dimensional 58 Yes, in Quebec Stadium in eight movies 
39 Milo of 50 President Ford, "Barbarella" informally 59 Clamor 26 Conger catchers 
27 Possible answer to "Are we there now?" 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
1~~··· 28 Polly, who 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
II! 29 Protozoan crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 30 Sign after Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 Aquarius past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). -=+-~,.+-:.+-=-~ 31 Maker of Yukon Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young SUV's: Abbr. solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
....t!l~~1J~ ~ wants a cracker 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 
63 __-0-Matic (baseball game company) 
64 Sitting on 65 Victories 66 Approval power 67"Yo,_!" 

DOWN 1 Waste material 2 Passe skirt style 1:;:;-+--+-t-+-­3 Breadmaking 
place 4 Quaint building decoration 5 Vowel sound in "puzzle" 6 Spanish constructions 7 Par _ (how to send mail to France) aAtlas maker's subj. 9 White-tailed eagle 10 Nutritious 
breakfast cereal 11 Double curve 12 Resort 13 Tempe sch. 
46 Rage 55 Popular shirt21 Zimbalist Jr. 
37 Opposite of a label 

32 Communication 40 Route that 52 Free ticket for the deaf: invites speeding 
53 Round breadAbbr. 
45 Pariahs 54 Ballet attire34 Olive 

Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HoRoscoPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tilfani Thiessen, 31: R ichanl Dean Anderson, 55; Gail O'Grady, 42: Marisk:l Hargitay. 41 
Happy Birthday: This may turn out to he an emotional year. hut nnly if you haven't taken care of issues that have been hanging over your head for some time. Rid yourself of the burdens you have been canrying amuml with you. OJKl' and for all. and you will see the light at the end of the tunnel. Ir's time to srop letting negativity consume you. Instead. fight for the positive and you will lind yourself in a new headspacc. Your numlx·rs arc 3, 14, 28, ..~2. 38.41 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Don't start anything today lh<ll will lead to a confrontation with someone you love. You have to keep things light and put your cffo11s into where you see yourself heading in the future. ** 

..... 
TAllRUS tAprii20-May 201: Visiting a friend willlifl your spirits and guide you down an imercsling new path. You have plenty to contribute, and if you do. you will join forces with someone interesting.**** GEMINI IMay 21-Junc 20): Consider your past and thl' penpk you have met along the way. Someone from your past may he able to hdp you. hut you must not let him or her take over. Pace yourself and stay in control. *** CANCER (Jun~ 21-July 22): Emotional mallcrs may he difficult to deal with today. An older friend or relative may not understand what is going on. Your explanation will help and bring you closer together. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Sudden change• regarding your finandal situation will surprise you. You can make good decisions regarding your health. The more you do to make improvements, the better you will feel. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 221: Partnerships can he fonned, hut make sure that you arc both on the same page before making any pnnniscs. Once you have your plans laid out, nothing will stop you from achieving your goals. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): What you think is going on and what is really going on will not coincide. Back up and refrain fmm voicing your opinion until you have a better understanding of what everyone else is doing. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Today is all about love, creativity and gelling to the bottom of things. You can fix a lot of the trouhled areas in your life if you are precise, determined and dedicated. ***** SAGITTARIUS t Nov. 22-Dec. 211: An oldrr rrlative will appredate what you do to help out. Your luck is changing. and you may lind yourself in a windfall. You may have a change of heart. Grovel if you must. "** CAPRICORN (Dt•c. 22-Jan. 191: Get down to bu,iness and let whoever you care about know what you are thinking and how you feel. It may be your only opportunity to do what's right and to setlhe record straight. *** AQUARilJS (Jan. 20-li'eb. 18): You have to take better care of yourself. Set a new regime that will help get you back into shape using exercise, proper dirt and a healthier lifestyle. Take the initiative to improve. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Love and romance are certainly in the picture, but so is your ability to produce something very creative and unusual. Strive to reach your goals and you will feel satisfied. ***** 
Birthda)· llahy: You arc sensitive and caring and know how to get things done. You strive to do your best and will wke on more than your share in order to help . You are a thoughtful, kind and concemed friend. 
Check oltf Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenia/ast.com. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Urban pollution 5 Booster, to a 
rocket 

10 Winter home of the Chicago Cubs 
14 Volcanic flow 15 Hang in the air 16 "We deliver for 
you" sloganeer: Abbr. 

17 Ruthless personnel director 
18 The Hunter 
19 Genesis twin 
20 Seasoned 
dancer? 23 Frequently 24 Austrian peaks, 
locally 

28 Ancient writing material 
31 Spacecraft to Jupiter 
33 Missed by --···· (was way off) 
34 Mantra sounds 
35 Cockpit datum: Abbr. 36 Seasoned singer? 
41 Missing button on an iPod: Abbr. 
42 Monday night game org. 43 Extra, as a bedroom 44 The Washington Monument, e.g. 
47 Emily Dickinson's home, in Massachusetts 
49 Police weapon 50 Bridge authority Charles 51 Seasoned 
baseball player? 
57 Portend 
60 _-ground 
missile 
61 Anise-flavored liqueur 
62 Sierra Club co-founder 

r 
i I 
THE OBSERVER 
t 
PORTS
Tuesday, January 24, 2005 page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Nerve 1 RAC'ing 
Team enters hostile Rutgers arena on two-game win streak 
By KEN FOWLER Spores Writer 
Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw knows the No. 21 Irish will have their hands full tonight when they travel to the hostile confines of the Rutgers Athletic Center (RAC) in Piscataway, N.J., to take on the No. 9 Scarlet Knights. 
"If you look at our history there, it's always been a tough place to play, and Tuesday won't be an exception," McGraw said Monday in a Big East conference call. 
Rutgers (13-3'0verall, 5-0 Big East) is 6-2 at the RAC against the Irish since joining the Big East and has lost only once there -last week to Temple ­since the 2003-04 season. 
Notre Dame (12-5, 3-3) bare­ly defeated Georgetown Saturday in the much different atmosphere of McDonough Arena, where 1,106 fans filled a high school-style gymnasium. 
Tonight, the Irish will try to avoid a repeat performance of their second-half near-melt­down against the Hoyas -but in the rowdy RAC. 
Ahead by 17 with 10 minutes 

Irish guard Megan Duffy steals the ball from DePaul's Rachael Carney on Jan. 17. Duffy is currently 
see RUTGERS/page 22 the Big East conference player of the week and will lead Notre Dame against Rutgers tonight. 

ND SWIMMING 
Recruits remain 1n the family 
By DAN MURPHY Sporrs Writer 
Three years in a row, the Notre Dame swimming and diving team has landed its best recruiting class in school history. Last year, however, was slightly easier for head recruiter Matt Tallman. Of the eight new freshmen this year, three -Bill Bauman, David Cavadini and Danny Lutkus-join older brothers already swimming for the Irish. 
Having experience with the three families helped Tallman with his decision-making, 
"Just knowing who they were, they stood above a pack of kids who were at a similar level," Tallman said. 
"We went after them since we knew their baekground and how their brothers had improved." 
Looking at the track record of Doug Bauman, Jamie Lutkus ­both seniors -and junior Louis Cavadini, it is no mystery why Tallman was interested in their younger brothers. Doug Bauman and Jamie Lutkus both own school records in the 100 back­stroke and 400 individual medley (IM), respectively. 
Louis Cavadini al'io has been a part of three record-setting relay 
see FAMILY/page 21 
fOOTBALL RECRUITING 

16-year old Oglesby at top of junior class 
Irish plan to sign six senior 0-linemen 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
Fifteen of the country's top 100 high school juniors were among the players to attend a recruiting Junior Day held by Irish coach Charlie Weis and his staff earlier this month. 
But according to Mike Frank of Irisheyes.com, the only junior who has a schol­arship offer from Notre Dame was a player who did not even attend the Jan. 14 event -offensive lineman Josh Oglesby. 
The 16-year old Oglesby is a 6-foot-7, 325-pound offen­sive tackle out of Saint Francis High School in St. Francis, Wis. Despite his age, he is one of the top recruits in the nation with offers already from Notre Dame, Ohio State, Tennessee and Michigan, among several oth­ers. 

The Observer could not reach Oglesby for comment Monday. 
He was unable to make it to South Bend for the Junior Day (which coincided with the Irish men's basketball team's 92-77 home victory over Providence) but told Irisheyes.com that he has "not eliminated a school" from his list of potential des­
see OGLESBY/page 21 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish host hot Georgetown team tonight 



CLUB SPORTS 
NBA 
LLI 

Co) Irish men's bowling 
L.A. Lakers guard 

z team finishes 38th out of 
Kobe Bryant's 81 points 

a field of 40 teams at the 
against Toronto on
=:5 

eighth Annual Blue and 
Sunday provoked talk

= 
~ 
Gold Classic. 
of the possibility that 
I:L Cl: 
Wilt Chamberlain's 100­
point record could fall. 

page 21 
page 20
en = 
No. 21 Hoyas come to JACC after upset of then-No. 1 Duke 
By PAT LEONARD Sporrs Writer 
The Georgetown team entering the Joyce Center at 7 p.m. tonight will look familiar. Its ros­ter is strikingly similar to the one that lost a 70-64 decision to Notre Dame on the same floor last February. 
But the No. 21 Hoyas (12-4, 3­
SOFIA BALLON!The Observer 
2 Big East) are corning off an 87­
Irish guard Chris Quinn shoots a floater late in a 71-67 loss to

84 upset win over then-No. 1 Duke (17 -1) on Saturday. The Michigan Dec. 3. Irish (10-6, 1-4), on the other its rough early start, only an Friday night's buzzer-beater at hand, are tied with Louisville and opportunity to. find out whether it Marquette. Providence for the third worst gets better or worse. "The season can swing on one record in-conference. And The Irish have lost each of game and one week," Irish coach 
Georgetown's visit means Notre their four Big East defeats by no Dame has no time to think about more than six points, including 
MLB 

New Reds owner Bob Castellini fires GM Dan O'Brien Monday ­Castellini's first major change since taking ownership of team. 
page 20 

TENNIS 
Martina Hingis reaches the quarterfinals in the Australian Open follow­ing a three-year layoff. 
page 18 
NFL 
Seattle earns postsea­son respect as they con­tinue to dominate oppo­nents. 
page 17 
see HOYAS/page 22 
NFL 
Dick Jauron returns as the Bills head coach after Mike Murlarkey resigned nearly two weeks ago. 
page 15 

.. 






