
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Notre Dame connects With Church in Rome 
Pope greets Jenkins, trustees at Vatican 
By MADDIE HANNA A..sol"ialt' News Ediror 
HOMI\ -When Pope Benedict XVI began to desnmd the white marble steps of the Vatkan audi­torium after his puhlie papal address Wednesday morning, he rwmlnd no introduetion to the man diroct.ly in front of him. 
Tho lloly Fathnr took Univnrsity President Father .John .Jenkins' right hand with his own, pla1:ed his left hand on top of .Jenkins' hand and said. "You're from Notre Dame," .Jenkins rncallml Wmlrwsday af'tnrnoon. 
Wlwn .lnnkins rnsponded yes, tlw pope said simply, ";\ great Catholie university." 
"I askml him, 'Keep us in your praynrs, "' .Jenkins said. 
Thn convnrsation lasted about :w seconds and nndnd with .l1mkins kissing thn popp's ring. Popn Bmwdict XVI then spoke with lloly Cross Sup1wior General Fatlrnr llugh Cleary and Trustee Fathnr Carl H>ny, who also kiss1~d tlw popn's ring, in turn. 
"I told the IIoly Father I was a trustne of thn Univnrsity of Notre 
see POPE/page 6 


Pope Benedict XVI speaks to University President Father John Jenkins during the pope's Public Audience at the Paul VI Auditorium at the the Vatican Wednesday. 
Catholicism, culture combine in addresses 
By MADDIE HANNA Associare News EditOr 
HOME -The relationship between the Catholic Church and culture,-a thcmn tind to the focus of University President Father .John Jenkins' addresses last wnnk -snrved as the topic of an academic eonfnnmen in Hornn Wednnsday that featured speer.hes by .Jenkins, auxiliary bishop of Home Hino Fisiehella and Notre Dame trustne and Peoria, Ill. Bishop Daninl Jenky. 
The eonfnrenr.e, entitled "Contribution of Catholic Universities to tho Church and Culture,'' was part of a week of activities surrounding tlw Board of Trustees mentings. In addition to trustees and their familins, thosn in attendance ineluded University ol'f'icors, local univnrsity oflidals and a handful of Notre Dame stu­dents studying in Homo. 
.Jenkins, who disr.ussnd "Notro Dame: ;\ Catholic University within American 
see ADDRESS/page 10 

Notre Dame students in study abroad programs attend academic convocation 
Italy's historical capital to see some remarks." "lOur professorsl came with us and ourRy KATE ANTONACCI familiar Notre Dame far.es -including The event-held at Saint .John's direr.tor is here as well," junior an:hitnr.­
Nt•wsWrilt'r 
University President Father John Lateran Pontifical University -was turc major Haehanl Marieieh said. .Jenkins. "open to both Home programs," Jacobs .Jenkins; Bishop Hino Fisichella, auxil­HOME-Though sonw guests travnled "I think an event like this is a time for said, referring to tho program at .John iary bishop of Home and rnetor of Saint
halfway around the world to attend 
the whole Notre Damn community ... to Cabot University and Notre Dame's John Lateran Univorsity; and FatlwrNotrn Damn's ar.admnie r.onvoeation and enlebrate the link that Notre Dame has to architecture program in Home. Daniel Jenky, bishop of Peoria, Ill. and a 
•·ont'Prnne•~ Wndnesday, studonts at 
Home and to see how Catholic higher Architecture students were encouraged Notre Dame trustne, all spoke at the con­nit.lwr of tlw Univnrsity's two intnrnation­
edur.ation !its in,'' said Dennis Jacobs, to attend the event in classes throughout vocation.
al study programs in Home simply had to 
vice president and associate provost. "We thn week, said junior architeeture major
walk down thn eobhlostorw streets of wanted the students to learn from tho Claire Colclough. see STUDENTS/page 9 
FACULTY SENATE 
Cultural cotntnittee approved 
By KAREN LANGLEY Assistanl News f.ditor 
Studnnt governmnnt rnpresen­tatives prnsonted the Student Sonatn's resolutions on cultural eom peteneios -wh ieh would 1:rnate a eomrnittm~ of faculty, stu­dnnl'i and administrators to pro­vidn n~commendations on incor­porating diversity edueation into thn Notre Dame eurrieulum ­for debate at thn Faculty Senatn meeting Wednesday night. Though the dnbatn turrwd lwatnd at limns, both rnsolutions passed. 
Thn studnnt presenters ­including Senate Minority ;\(fairs 
see FACULTY/page 6 


Zahtn avvaits outcome for incident at Keenan 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN and 
MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writers 
Al'ter a group of Zahm Hall residents threw fruit and vom­ited onto Keenan Hall Saturday evening, Zahm's hall govern­ment and rector are in talks about the best way to punish those responsible for the inci­dent. 
Initially, Zahm rector Father Dan Parrish banned all dorm social gatherings indelinitely in an e-mail he sent to his resi­dents immediately following the incident. 
But at a closed hall govern­mont meeting Tuesday, Zahm residents and hall staff mmn­bers agreed to "several eon­crete resolutions," including a publie apology as well as a personal apology to Keenan Hall rector Father Mark Thesing, Zahm Hall president Kevin Gimber said. 

Parrish said he would eome to a linal decision on the eon­sequenees of the inr.ident by the next hall governmnnt meeting. 
"I believe that there was a unanimous opinion ol' all resi­dents thorn that this action did step ovnr the line, and that we agree that there should be con-
see ZAHM/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, February 2, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Goldilocks 


and the three 
hair critics 
Kurt Cobain. Johnny Depp from "Blow." The center on DePaul's women's basketball team. 
When you're a man, and you happen to have let your hair grow, everyone seems to have an opin­
Eric Retter •
ion about it. These are some of the samplings of judgments handed 
Sports Writer 
down to me. 
The first two, okay, they've done all right for themselves -I can take that in stride. That last one though, that one just hurt my feelings. · 
Barring not one person, the first thing anyone I haven't seen in while com­ments on is my long, golden locks. 
My mother was shocked. Her best friend said I looked like a yeti. 
When I finally returned home after a semester abroad, my grandmother was near tears. I thought she was happy to see me. She thought I needed a haircut. I think I was right too, because after an emotional hug, she then proceeded to give me the number to all the barbers in the area she knew of-and offered to pay expenses and gas. 
Sometimes, my scalp coverage has been the setup of an awkward moment. While watching bowl games over break, one of my friends-who is balding and, I think, jealous -cracked open a beer and asked me why it had gotten so blonde, and if I was conditioning it every day. 
Not being the witty one, I turned up the volume and coughed uncontrollably, hoping he didn't seriously expect an answer. 
Despite everything, I like it. I like the way I look. I'm happy with it. My mom's style and my grandma's style aren't my style. I feel that as my hair has grown, I too have grown as a person. Honestly, I feel like Samson under this blonde mess, walking with a new swagger, except when the wind blows and pushes it all in my face and causes practical blindness, turning that swagger into a sort of grop­ing stumble. 
Looking back on it, I'm kind of disap­pointed that I didn't go to the career fair Wednesday. I think it would have been fun: me in my sharp suit, playing the part every interviewer pegged me for the moment I got to the front of the line, slipping in a casual, stoner "dude" as the guy decides whether or not I'm the most likely not to be hired guy he has talked to that day, because that has to be worth something. 
The truth is, unless things go terribly wrong in the next two months, I should already have a job for the summer in Miami, in a field in which I may make my career. 
But come late May, if I get down there and get handed a pair of scissors, I'm heading straight for the beach. 
At least there someone will appreciate me. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to an editing error, a news article in the Jan. 31 edition ofThe Observer atuibuted a statement to Saint Mary's associate professor ofpsychology Catherine Pittman. It should have been attributed to Saint Mary's senior Ginger Francis. The Observer regrets this error. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mis­takes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QuESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR DREAM JOB AFTER COLLEGE? 



freshman sophomore Cavanaugh Cavanaugh 
"Batman. " "Shampoo tester. " 
IN BRIEF 
Law and theology faculty members will take part in a panel discussion on "Inter­preting the Bible and the Constitution: Similarities and Differences" at 4 p.m. today in Room 121 of the Law School. 
The College of Arts & Letters will present "You Don't Really Have to be a Rhodes Scholar to Land a Fellowship for Post Graduate Study" today at 7 
p.m. in the Hammes Student Lounge of Col~man-Morse. 
Legendary rap artist Chuck D from the critically acclaimed group Public Enemy will pres­ent "Rap, Race, and Reality" today at . 8:30 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall, Room 141. A Jimmy John's reception will follow at 10 p.m. 
Student band "The Harper Valley Drifters" will play tonight at 10 p.m. at Legends. 
The band Nice Save! will play Friday at 10:30 p.m. at Corby's. 
RecSports' Late Night Olympics will take place in the Joyce Center from 10 p.m. Saturday to 4 a.m. Sunday. Donations of $1 are taken at the door and benefit St. Joseph County Special Olympics. 
Robert Campbell, a Pulitzer Prize winner and veteran architecture critic for the Boston Globe, will present a lecture titled "Why Don't the Rest of Us Like the Buildings the Architects Like?" at 4:30 
p.m. Monday at Bond Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 32 HIGH 30 LOW 22 LOW 23 
Mike Folger Chris Williams Kris Patterson Michelle Byrne Teresa Nesbitt Mary Beugelsdijk 
freshman freshman freshman freshman Zahm Zahm · Zahm Cavanaugh 
"Kobe!" "Godzilla's "Beyonce's "Solving assistant!" baby's daddy. problems in 
Ah, skeet impoverished skeet." countries. , 


Eating champ downs 26 sandwiches in 10 minutes 
NEW YORK -A 100­pound woman ate 26 sand­wiches in 10 minutes Wednesday at a New York restaurant, winning the World Grilled Cheese Eating Championship. 
Sonya Thomas won $8,000 for the contest at the Planet Hollywood restau­rant in Times Square but said she was disappointed in her performan-ce. 
"I could have done bet­ter," she said, adding that she was aiming for 30 sand­wiches. 
Thomas, of Alexandria, 
TODAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 
:::a: 
~ 
1.&.1 
3: 
.... 
< 
(.) 

0 HIGH 45
.... 
LOW 35 
Va., said she had to catch a train shortly after the con­test to make her shift at a Burger King on Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland, where she is a manager. 
Lawmaker's wife told to leave during Bush speech 
WASHINGTON -The wife of a senior House of Representatives Republican was told to leave the House chamber during President George W. Bush's State of the Union speech for wear­ing a shirt bearing words of support for U.S. troops. 
"Shame, shame," Rep. Bill Young of Florida said on the House floor on Wednesday, condemning the treatment of his wife Beverly by the U.S. Capitol Police. 
"She was ordered to leave the gallery, because she was doing ... what the pres­ident said we should all do," Young said. "She had on this shirt. A very conserva­tive shirt, long sleeves, high neck, but it says support our troops." 
Her shirt said "Support the Troops Defending Our Freedom." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
HIGH 37 HIGH 38 HIGH 33 LOW 32 LOW 25 LOW 23 

Atlanta 60143 Boston 45 I 30 Chicago 45 I 29 Denver 46 I 24 Houston 76 I 54 Los Angeles 71 I 51 Minneapolis 37 I 28 New York 51/ 38 Philadelphia 53 I 35 Phoenix 75 I 48 Seattle 46 I 41 St. Louis 54 I 36 Tampa 76 I 55 Washington 54 I 36 
Thursday, f;ebruary 2, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 

Group enters freedon1 debate 
By AMANDA MICHAELS As.<ismnt News Ediror 
Focusing ·on what several nwmbers called the most important issue tlwy will face during thnir limn on campus, Llw Student Smmt11 !ward filed­back from three committees about thn curn1nt dcbatn on acadmnic frnndom at iL<; moot­ing Wednnsday night. 
Thn discussion, which involved the Committees on (;(HJdnr Issues, Academic All'airs and University All'airs, is part of a three-week procnss to articulate student govern­mont's p.osition in regards to academie freedom at Notre llanw, said student body vice presidr111t l.izzi Shappell. 
l.ast wnnk, the committee chairs worn askml to gather insight from t.lwir committees and report bark the major r.oncerns and thoughts at W11drwsday's menting. All rnp­rnsentatives an1 to spnnd the rwxt week gatlwring the posi­tions of their constituents on llw issue, in hopes that thny will hPlp rTall a resolution by Feb. l!i. 
"It is very important, now morn than nvnr. li1r you to go back and lw a reprnsentative fill' your dorm. (Senate( is the group most oll.nn lookml to as a gaugn of studnnt opinion, so wn want to b11 as inlimned as possibln lwfore we takn any kind ofst.ance," Shappell said. 
Ali Wishon, chair of the Committne on Gnndnr Issues, voiced the concerns of her committee mmnbors with the possible rnpnreussions of any policy decisions basnd on the Jan. 23 and 24 spnedws deliv­ered by University Prnsident Father John Jnnkins. 
Among thosn listnd wore the fears of a less aeadnmically divnrse environment hmding to a dedine in top faculty recruit­ment, which would threaten both Notre Damn's status as a top 20 university and the value of a Univnrsity diploma. 
"We'd also like to look beyond, and know how titr the mach of any policy changes will extend," Wishon said. "Will events like the Kennan HrWUfl or thn Dillon Pep Hally be thrnatened'?" 
The committee also ques­tioned why discussion was lim­itnd to notions of sexual moral­ity, when "there is so much morn to Catholicism than that," Wishori said. 
It was recommended that studnnt government's position encompass studrmL<;' opinions on academic frnedom at Notre Damn as a wholn, rather than focus directly on the hot-but­ton topies of "The Vagina Monologuns" and the former Qunnr Film Festival. 
Chris llarris, chair of tho Committee on Academic Affairs, said his committee reflected more on the question of what position student gov­ernment should have. 
"The overwhelming response was one of question­ing," Harris said. "One (com­mittee member( was unsure if we should take a stance at all since we represent the nntirn student body, one (committee member( thought neutrality was tl1e best stance and some­one else said students we be upset if [Senate] didn't take a stance." 
The Committee on University Nfairs, according to commit­tee chair Matt Walsh, suggest­ed that student government should set up meetings within dorms as well as larger li1rmat dnbates to encourage discus­sion among students. 
"(Senate( needs to explore both sides of the argument and see how students really fen!, because it is important to rep­resent the views of th<~ entirn student body," Walsh said. 
At the end of the discussion, Walsh noted the greater importance of the acadcrnie freedom debate. 
"We need to remind our­selves that not only are we a Catholic university," hn said, "but that we are considered by many as 'the' Catholic univer­sity." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
Ebersol family to join Oprah Winfrey on show-
By MARY KATE MALONE Assistant News Editor 
Hecent Notre Dame graduate Charlie Ebersol will appear with his family on "The Oprah Winfrey Show" this afternoon to tell tho story of' the November 2004 plane crash that killed his little brother. 
This is the first time the well­known family has spoknn publicly together about the tragedy. Ebersol. his father NBC SporL'i Chairman Dick Ebersol, his mother actress Susan Saint James and his younger brother Willie Ebersol taped the episode on Jan. 11 at Harpo Studios in Chicago. 
Ebersollost his 14-year-old brother Teddy when a private plane crashnd on takeoff at Montrose Hegional Airport in Colorado on Nov. 2R, 2004. Charlie and Dick Ebersol escaped from the wreckagr~. but Toddy was killed on impact. Saint Jarnns was not on the plane. 
"After a year absorbing this horri­ble thing that happened to us, it's an opportunity to otTer our experience and maybe in some way help people who have gone through that experi­ence," Ebersol said. 
Ebersol taped two episodes with Winfrey. The first focuses on the plane crash and its aftermath; the second -to be aired sometime later this month -spotlights the award­winning movie Ebersol eo-produced with his best friend during his junior year at Notre Dame. The doeumnn­tary film, titled "lthuteng (never stop learning]," follows three children at a school for at-risk studenL<; in Sownto, South Al'riea. Winfrny donated $1.14 million to the school featurnd in the film, Ithuteng Trust, aftr\r watching Ebersol's movie narlinr this year. 

Ebersol said he ernatnd the film ­whieh will air on IlBO in Septmnbr1r -to tell the inspiring story of thn troubled children at lthutnng Trust, a school that takes in studnnL<; who arn rapists, murdnrers. ear thieves or rapn victims. Hun by one woman, tho school has more than 6,!i00 studenL'i and is the only school on the eonti­nent of Africa with a I 00 pnrennt graduation and retention rate, Ebersol said. 
"I think onn of the things we want­ed to show was ... horribln things happen in your lili\ but you have to exp<~rience [them[," he said. 'This is an opportunity to sharn that with other people. Obviously there is no bigger pndostal on narth to say that from than tlw Oprah show." 
Ebnrsol said Winl"rny was "vnry respectful" of his liunily's li1nlings <L'i they shared their story about the plane crash. 
"IOprahl rnally is amazing," Ebnrsol said. "Without rnally know­ing us, she is able to rnlatn With pno­pln and really ask thr1 questions that are on your mind ... it ww; a blossing to have done this with hnr becausn she asks qunstions to help poople that have experieneed similar loss­es." 
"The Oprah Winfrey Show" airs wPnkdays at 4 p.m. on WSBT Channel22. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmaloneJ@nd.edu 
THE is now accepting applications for 


R General Board 
Any full time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross is encouraged to apply. Applicants should submit a resume and an application at least 3 pages long explaining how they would run their department. 

NEWS EDITOR 
Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News 
Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and is 
responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR 
Applicants should have sports reponing, writing and editing skills. The Sports 
Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and 
special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is 
responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR 
Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to 
deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
·SCENE EDITOR 
Applicants should have feature writing and editing experience. The Scene 
Editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas and is responsible for the content of the Scene pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR 
Applicants should have photography experience. The Photo Editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with the News, Sports and Scene department editors in assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR 
Applicants should have reporting, writing and editing skills. The editor man­ages Saint Mary's department heads,· coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER 
Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees a staff of account executives and is responsible for generating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of Quark Xpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager over­sees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing depart­ments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR Applicants must be familiar with building and maintaining a Web site. The Web Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial department of The Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each day. The Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the site. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge of Free Hand or Adobe Illustrator. The Graphics Editor oversees a staff of designers and must work closely with News, Sports and Scene to match top­quality graphics with the content of each day's newspaper. 
All applications must be submitted to Mike Gilloon in the Observer's office, located in the basement of South Dining Hall, by Monday, February 6, 2006 by 5 p.m. Questions about the application process can be directed to Mike at 1-4543. 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 2, 2006 
New a-ward to honor trustee Ray Siegfried 

Career fair: getting the jobs done 
By RYAN SYDLIK News Writer 
The Joyce Center bustled with activity Wednesday as students sought out prospec­tive employers and internships at Notre Dame's largest ever career fair. 
Event organizer Anita Rees said the fair's more than 160 employers offered everything from accounting to publishing to law enforcement. 
"We have companies and organizations for the first time on campus such as Microsoft, Rodale, the Catholic Diocese of Chicago and DHL," she said. 
Lee Svete, the fair's principal organizer, said the key is there are employers for all majors. 
"We have employers like ESPN and Sony," Svete said. "They don't recruit on most campuses. They come here because of the quality of our graduates." 
Rees said students left excel­lent impressions on employers. 
"Every career fair I've been at for the past seven years has had many companies with a resume drop instead of actual representation," Rees said. "But now, employers really want face time with Notre Dame students." 
Sophomore RikSan Stephens was grateful of the opportuni­ties presented by the event. 
"I am very glad the Career Resource Center gives stu­dents the opportunity meet 


Svete said there were more internship opportunities for underclassmen of all majors than at any other day in cam­pus history. 
"I want to get a jumpstart so that I have an advantage as a junior or senior," said fresh­man Mark Bond, who attended the fair to investigate intern­ship opportunities. 
Stanford freshman Karun Ahuja said the event is a good chance to see how upperclass­men interact with employers. 
"It is good to get your feet wet," he said. "Though you might not land an interview, it is still a great experience just 
"We are here because we felt that student qualifications were exceptional and because we have had developing rela­tions with the University," Reebok spokesman Mike Sullivan said. "We wanted to try to increase the awareness of the students to Reebok and to the opportunities we have." 
Time Weiss of AmeriCorps, a nonprofit a one-year commu­nity service program, said the company was eager to meet "a lot of good potential appli­cants." 
"Students from Notre Dame are the type of students we look for because of the service ethic that is displayed through the school," he said. 
Special to The Observer 

An award for student lead­ership has been established at Notre Dame in honor of Ray Siegfried, a trustee, alumnus and benefactor of the University who died last year after a long and coura­geous struggle with amy­otrophic lateral sclerosis (Lou Gehrig's Disease). 
The Ray Siegfried Award for Leadership Excellence, jointly sponsored by Notre 
Dame's  Office  of Student  
Affairs  and  the  Student  
Affairs  Committee  of the  

Board of Trustees, will be presented annually to a sen­ior who exemplifies the qual­ities for which Siegfried was known and admired in the University community, including leadership, gen­erosity, devotion to the Catholic faith and delight in athletics. Nominations are being solicited from Notre Dame's residence hall rec­tors, student affairs depart­ment directors and other campus officials. 
Siegfried, a 1965 Notre Dame alumnus, was chair­man of the board of the NOR­DAM Group, an international aerospace manufacturer, when he died Oct. 6 in Tulsa, Okla. Despite the ordeal of his illness, he had main­tained an active schedule 

Photo courtesy of ND News and Information 
which included regular visits to the Notre Dame campus. Among the gifts he and his family have given the University are the Siegfried Building in the Mendoza College of Business; Siegfried Hall, a men's residence; and the Ray and Milano Siegfried Chair in Entrepreneurial Studies, which is now held by Carolyn Y. Woo, Gillen Dean of the Mendoza College of Business. He also was the enthusiastic host of an annu­al dinner for the men of Siegfried Hall, whose success in intramural sports he greatly enjoyed. He received an honorary doctor of laws degree from Notre Dame in 1995. 

with the companies and to to be here." learn more information so that Reebok -which has just we could hopefully work for completed a merger with them in the future," Stephens Adidas-was one of the com­said. panies present at the fair. 
Zahm 
continued from page 1 
sequences to our actions," Gimber said. 
Gimber said a group of about 50 Zahm residents went to South Dining Hall around 4:30 
p.m. Saturday afternoon for a dorm dinner. After dinner,· Gimber said, a group of about 10 Zahm residents ran to Keenan and vomited on the south side of the dorm and returned to their rooms after Keenan residents came out of their building. 
Parrish immediately sent an e-mail to Zahm residents ban­ning all social gatherings indefinitely, and a copy of that e-mail was obtained by The Observer. Parrish has not yet finalized the stated punish­ment. 
The e-mail said "a group of Zahm men, wearing red shirts, threw fruit at Keenan Hall and vomited on and near Keenan's southern wall. The majority of the fruit and vomit fell directly at or below the windows of Keenan's rector, Father Mark [Thesing]." 

The e-mail-which was sent by Parrish at about 7 p.m. Saturday -stated, "The mess outside of Keenan will be com­pletely cleaned up before Father Mark [Thesing) returns from tonight's basketball game." 
Gimber said the incident occurred before the 6 p.m. game at the Joyce Center was over. 
"There were a group of resi­dents that cleaned it up," Gimber said Tuesday. 
Gimber said the Tuesday hall government meeting was "calm and level-headed." 
"We have also agreed to look into purchasing an ad or [ask-Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 
ing The Observer) to print a [Viewpoint] letter that ~e will draft as a community apologiz­ing for actions that have upset the Notre Dame community," Gimber said. 
Thesing declined to comment Wednesday. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden and Mary Kate Malone at hvanhoeg@nd.edu and mmalonel @nd.edu 





ilt{ONRIIffZjlf 
Observer Delivery Specials (Every Day) 256-9000 One 16" 1 Topping $10 Two 14" 2 Topping $14 
Sunday Specials "The Gut Buster'' $20 One 18", 2 Topping + 2 Liter + Breadsticks 
One 14" Unlimited Topping + Breadsticks $12 
STUDENT BUFFET EVERY THURSDAY, STARTS AT 5:30PM $6.99 Pizza, Salad, Pasta, Soup, Drinks and More Go to brunospizza.com to download a $1.00 OFF Coupon 
288-3320 2610 Prairie Ave. South Bend, IN 46614 
1 0 minutes from campus 



ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, February 2, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OssERVHrs WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Indonesian ferry sinks; 45 missing 
.JAKAHTA-Naval vessels picked up 114 survivors from a passongor ferry that went down in rough snas in eastern lndonosia, but tlwrn was no sign late Wodnosday of dozens of others slill missing, rescuers said. 
Croups of worriod rnlalivos flocked to the port in Kupang, whorn the fnrry originatnd, to groet survivors as thoy dismnbarkml from two navy ships. Many neoded mndieal trnat­nwnt after spending hours in tho sea or hanging on to debris or lifnboats, witnnssns said. 
By nightfall, 114 survivors had arrivnd at tlw port, said Siti. an ollieial tlwro who gons by a singlo nanw. ;\round 45 otlwrs bolinvod to have boon on board had yot to bo account­ed for. slw said. 
Hussein boycotts new trial session 
B;\C;III>AI>-Saddam llussnin and four otlwr d11fendants refusml to attend at a nnw session of thnir trial Wednesday and their lawyers hoycottnd the proe1wdings, demand­ing tlw rt1llloval of thn chinf judge, who they rlaim is biased against tlw former Iraqi leador. 
Chief judgo Haouf Abdei-Hahman prnssed alwad with 1:ourt-appointnd defense lawyers and only· throe dnl'nndants present. Five prosecution witnnssns worn heard before the 4 1/2 hour session was adjourned until Thursday. 
Onn witrwss, a woman, testified that she was arrnstod by Saddam's security forces and torturml in prison. She said she was stripped naknd, hung by her feet and kicknd rerwatedly in tho chnst by Barzan Ibrahim, Saddarn's int111lignncn chief at the lime and tlw top 1:o-dnfendant in the trial. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush addresses growing anxiety 
NASIIVII.I.E. Tnnn. -Prnsident Bush said Wndrwsday that nvnn though the state of thn union is strong, he understands why some Amnrieans are worried in a time of war and job cuts. 
"I understand there's an anxiety about the time of war," Bush said, trying to keep the momnntum of thn previous night's State of the Union addrnss with an appearance at the c;rand Oln Opry. "That's natural, seems likn to me, even though this economy is roaring. It is strong, when you recognize wn'vn ov11rcomn a lot." 
W. VD"ginia governor halts coal mining 
CII/\HLESTON -Governor Joe Manchin called for all eoal companies in West Virginia to halt production and perform safety ehecks after two more mine work­ers wern killed Wednnsday in separate aeddents. 
"We're going to cheek for unsafe condi­tions, and we're going to correct any unsafe conditions before we mine another lump of coal," Mancl1in said. 
A miner was killed at an underground mine when a wall support popped loose, said Caryn Gresham, a spokeswoman for the state Off'ice of Miners' Health Safety and Training. 
The second fatality occurred at a surface mine when a bulldozer struck a gas line, sparking a fire and killing the operator, said Dirk Fillpott, a spokesman for the Mine Safety and Health Administration. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Bill holds colleges more accountable 
INI>IANAPOLIS -A plan aimed at sending more Indiana high school graduates to col­lege and ensuring more of them finish with a dngnlll is bning considered by education offi­cials. 
Thn plan before the Indiana Education Houndtable would hold colleges responsible for students' success. just as officials try to hold elementary and high schools account­able. 


Postal worker kills seven, herself 
Ex-USPS employee previously made racist remarks; six ofthe victims were minorities 
Associated Press 
GOLETA, Cali!'. -A woman wounded in a ram­page by a former postal worker died Wednesday, and investigators said the assailant also killed a for­mer neighbor just before the attaek, bri·nging the dnath toll to eight. 
A formnr postal worker said the attacker had spnwed racist comments in the past, and at lnast six of the vi1:tims wore minori­ties, but invnstigators have refused to discuss a motive in the slayings. 
The eighth victim, Beverly Graham, 54, was found Tuesday, dead of a gunshot wound to the head, at a Santa Barbara condominium complex where former postal employee .Jennifer Sanmareo lived up until a few years ago. 
Sherill"s Sgt. Erik Haney said authorities believed Graham's death was "the bnginning of this ram­page." Investigators matched several 9 mm shell casings found at (;raham's condo to casings from the postal distribu­tion center. 
A neighbor of Graham's reported hearing a gun­AP 
Santa Barbara county sheriff's investigators collect evidence at the scene of a multiple­
shot Monday evening, 
fatality shooting at a mail processing facility in Goleta, Calif., Tuesday.
before Sanmarco went to 
the mail-processing center. 
Sanmarco shot six postal woman for Santa Barbara In 2003, Tabala said, he Sanmarco, who employees to death and Cottage Hospital. saw sheriff's deputies pull appeared to be white, was committed suicide in what Former plant worker Jeff Sanmarco out from under escorted out of the build­was believed to be the Tabala recalled that a mail-sorting machine ing by management and nation's deadliest work­Sanmarco seemed particu­and wheel her away in never returned, Tabala place shooting by a larly hostile to Asians handcuffs on a mail cart said. woman. It was also the while working for the after a disturbance. "She seemed to be hav­nation's bloodiest shooting Postal Service. She returned several ing conversations and at a postal installation in He said all of the slain months later but "people there wasn't anyone nearly 20 years. postal workers were started coming to me and around her. She'd be just 
A postal worker who was minorities: Three were saying•. 'She's acting errati­jabbering away." Tabala shot in the head, Charlotte black, one was Chinese­cally,"' TabaJa said. "She said. Colton, 44, died of her American, one was was screaming. She was After leaving her postal wounds Wednesday, said Hispanic and one was saying a lot of racist com­job, Sanmarco moved to Teresa Hounds, spokes-Filipino. ments. It was pretty ugly." New Mexico in 2004. 
UNITED KINGDOM 
World pledges aid to Afghanistan 
President Hamid Karzai's govern­rights and economic development. 
Associated Press 
ment achieve the targets. Afghanistan pledged in the new 
LONDON -Nearly 70 nations and "I'm very thankful and I'm very plan to build a functioning justice international bodies pledged $10.5 confident that with this kind of sup­system in all its provinces by 2010 billion to help Afghanistan fight port ... we will eventually be able to and reduce the number of p(~ople liv­poverty, improve. security and crack establish a very democratic society in ing on less than $1 a day by 3 per­down on the drug trade, officials said Afghanistan," said Anwar ul-Haq cent per year. Wednesday at the end of a two-day Ahadi, the country's finance minister. I lowells said establishing the rule conference on the nation's future. Diplomats at the conference of law would be critical. 
The pledges were intended to fund praised the progress Afghanistan has "Without this, reconstruction, eco­the goals set out in a five-year plan made since a U.S.-Ied coalition top­nomic growth, poverty reduction and delegates signed Tuesday for rede­pled the hard-line Taliban regime in counternarcotics will continue to be velopment in Afghanistan, which has 2001. But after decades of war and hampered," he said. "It's very impor­been torn by decades of war. the Taliban's brutal rule, the country tant that the protection of human 
"We've laid the foundation for is still plagued by violence and rights becomes part of the main­change," British Foreign Office min­extreme poverty, and they acknowl­stream of Afghan politics." ister Kim Howells said in announcing edged it has a long way to go. Howells said $77 million of the the funding promises. "This money Ameerah Ilaq, of the United money pledged would go to fight will provide the necessary basis for Nations mission in Afghanistan, said drug production and trafficking. getting Afghanistan's work under it was crucial that those building the Afghanistan produces nearly 90 per­way." country's future return home and put cent of the world's opium and heroin. 
Dubbed the "Afghanistan the new blueprint into action. I-Iedayat Amin Arsala, Compact," the five-year plan covers "The clock of the Afghanistan Afghanistan's commerce minister poverty reduction, economic devel­Compact is now ticking," she said. and a senior government adviser, opment, counternarcotics efforts and The conference focused said changing the country's political security, and promises aid to help Wednesday on boosting human culture would be difficult. 
Thursday, February 2, 2006 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Faculty 
continued from page 1 
Committee chair Rhea Boyd and student body president Dave Baron -connected the resolutions' goals to University President Father John Jenkins' remarks about improving diversity in his inaugural address last September. 
"Father Jenkins uses the term 'diversity' as an aspect that enhances the educa­tional objects of ND, and we use the term 'culturaL com­petencies' in the same way," Boyd said. 
Mark Gunty, assistant director of the Office of Institutional Research, pre­sented relevant information from surveys taken of grad­uating seniors' experiences at Notre Dame. 
'There's very strong rela­tion between diversity prac­tices and developing aware­ness of social problems," Gunty said. 
The studies showed that greater exposure to differ­ent cultures has some expected effects, but also some unexpected trickle­down effects, Gunty said, including a lower overall happiness with Notre Dame among those who have been most exposed to diver­sity issues. 
"Although [students who have been involved in diver­sity activities] are slightly less satisfied with experi­ence at Notre Dame, they are tremendously less satis­fied with cultural diversity ... at Notre Dame," Gunty said. "At other institutions we're getting 70 percent of students satisfied with the diversity of their campus, but at Notre Dame 37 per­cent are satisfied." 
Gunty suggested these results are indicative of overall impressions of the University. 
"We can also see [it comes] as no big surprise that in almost all diversity practices, Notre Dame ranks lower than those schools," he said. 
One faculty member sug­gested Notre Dame's low satisfaction ratings in mat­ters of diversity derived not from the University's attempts to educate its stu­dents about cultural compe­tencies, but from the lack of diversity in its student body. 
Other members expressed alarm at what they saw as an attempt by some stu­dents to enforce their beliefs about education on the rest of the student body. 
"It appears to me there is concern by some students that other students aren't taking the right courses," economics professor Thomas Gresik said. "My concern is that we're being asked as faculty to save the students from themselves." 
Boyd denied the resolu­tion had any power of impo­sition over the student body. 
"This committee in no way endorses a new requirement," she said. "[This resolution] is simply to form committee to dis­cuss the issue." 
Gresik questioned whether a new committee would trample on the grounds of other commit­tees. 
"Personally I would like to affirm students studying dif­ference in cultures," he said. "But I have a concern with the proposal because I'm wondering ... I'm won­dering if a committee like this might not cross paths with another committee that's thinking about gener­al education requirements of students in whole." 
Another faculty member suggested diversity could be brought to the student body without involving the cur­riculum, through broaden­ing of study abroad options and increased admittance of international students. 
"Our purpose to bring this resolution was expressly not to address experience; our purpose was to address the charge that President Jenkins brought," Boyd said. "We want something that would contribute to academic experience, some­thing formal." 
Not all professors opposed the resolution. 
''I'd like to applaud the proposal," political science professor Eileen Botting said. "At most other schools I've attended taught at, it's been a matter of fact for the past 10 to 15 years to have a requirement for a class with a non-European, non­western approach." 
Boyd emphasized that while studies of other top universities have curricular requirements related to diversity issues, the commit­tee would aim to develop a plan uniquely geared to the needs of Notre Dame. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 
Pope-& 
continued from page 1 
Dame. He said it was a great uni­versity," Ebey said Wednesday afternoon. "I told him the superior general gave a copy of his encyclical ["Deus Caritas Est." or "God is Love," released Jan. 25] to mem­bers of the Board of Trustees." 
Ebey said Benedict XVI took his time speaking with members of the Notre Dame delegation as he left the stage after the address. 
"What you saw there ... was prayerful, respectful," Ebey said. "He focuses on you. He looks at you and talks to you . . . He knew who Father Jenkins was and greeted him." 
Ebey said 48 Notre Dame trustees, officers and their spouses attended the papal address, with the rest of the group in Rome unable to attend due to concurrent Board ofTrustees meetings. 
Thousands of visitors from around the world flooded the Vatican audi­torium Wednesday morning, lining up in St. Peter's Square hours before the address was scheduled to begin. Benedict XVI speaks to a general audience each Wednesday and appears from his study window overlooking St. Peter's Square on Sundays, said Thaddeus Jones, a Vatican official in the Pontifical Council for Social Communication and 1989 Notre Dame alumnus. 

He gives "[many] fewer" private audiences than Pope John Paul II, Jones said, due to personal reasons. 
"It could be a matter of the priori­ties he wants to give," Jones said. "You can't do everything ... He's his own man. He has his own style and personality." 
The address Wednesday was an explication of Psalm 145, which begins "I will extol you, my God and king; I will bless your name forev­er." 
The pope gave his commentary in Italian, French, English, German, Spanish and Polish. Before each translation, a different cardinal wel­comed the speakers of the particu­lar language, each time mentioning the specific groups in attendance and drawing raucous applause, flag-waving and even synchroiiized chants. 
When the English-speaking cardi­nal announced "The Board of Trustees and Officers from Notre Dame, Ind.," the Notre Dame dele­gates -positioned at the front and slightly left of dead-center of the audience -leapt to their feet and cheered. 
Jenkins clapped and waved to Benedict XVI, his forward gaze unwavering. 
The pope then commented on the Psalm in English, discussing "the spirit of the heart of this progres­sively growing celebration of God's majesty." 
"Far from being indifferent to humanity, he wishes to establish with us a kingdom of harmony and peace," Benedict XVI said. "Indeed, he is slow to anger and abounding in love." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

Don't get caught with your pants down in 2007! 
Cover yourself. 
Reserve Face Value tickets to see your favorite team in any of the BCS Bowl games! Just go to www.ticketreserve.com and purchase BCS All Access Fan Forwards for your favorite team and, if they make it to an_y BCS Bowl game, you get a Face Value ticket! 
BCS ALL iCC£SS MARKET NOW OPEN 


Thursday, February 2, 2006 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10 953.95 -2.08
}ones ' 
~ 
liD: Same: Down: Composite Volume 1,171 147 ~,18 2,721,311,160 

AMEX 1,855.49 -.5.34 
NASDAQ 3,.142.08 -2.XX NYSE 8~ II 2.22,.__...:-+;-:5·-:;-.,67'--' S&PSOO I ,2X2.46 +2.3X 
NIKKEI(Tokyo) L6:6§2::.4]~~tT1I:H] ffif IOO(l.ondon) 5,XOI.60 +41.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +0.44 +0.02 4.52 NASDAQ II 0 TR (QQQQ) +0.36 +0.15 42.15 INTEL CP (INTC) + 1.39 +0.30 21.55 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.39 -0.11 28.04 JDS UNIPHASE CP ODSU) + 1.28 +0.04 3.16 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE +0.75 +0.34 45.61 13-WEEK BILL -0.18 -0.08 43.62 30-YEAR BOND +0.53 +0.25 47.10 5-YEARNOTE +0. 96 +0.43 45.06 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.36 66.56 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -1.50 574.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.03 73.83 
Excha e Rates 

YEN 
118.2300 EURO 
0.8287 POUND 
0.5636 CANADIAN$ 
1.1421 

IN BRIEF 
United Airlines leaves bankruptcy 
CIIICJ\(;()-United Airlines finally left bank­ruptcy Wednesday, a leaner and morn cost­dlkient carrier artnr a painful restructuring that began in 2002 and lasted an industry record 1,150 days. 
Tho nation's No. 2 airline announced it had film! its nxit documents in U.S. Bankruptcy Court Wednesday af'tnrnoon, officially ending the longnst and costlinst bankruptcy of any airline. 
United marked the event in low-key fashion, sending top exncutives to airports around the country to thank United employees and cus­tomers for thnir patience. 
"Wn havn achieved a great deal in our restructuring to reposition this company and build upon our assnts, an unrivaled global net­work and our dndicatnd employnes," said Glnnn Tilton. CEO of United and parent UJ\L Corp., in a statement accompanying the announcmnent. 
But, in an apparent nod to the fact Unitnd stilt hasn't posted a profit sincn 2000, he added: "We can bn bettllr." 
Pete Md>onald, chief operating oiTicer of United and parent UJ\L Corp., shook hands and talknd with upbnat employees at Chicago's ()'Jiarn International Airport bPI'ore boarding a flight to do the same thing in San Francisco. 
Asian automakers gain on the market 
1>1\THOlT-!\sian eompanins grabbed more of thn nation's auto market in .January, dampening the good rwws for U.S. rivals who nnjoyed their first monthly sales incrnasns since employee dis­eount deals ended last sumnwr. 
!\sian automakers' sales jumped 11.4 percent li11· the month, while the traditional Big Thrne­Gennral Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler (;roup -saw their sales rise 4.6 per­cent, act~ording to J\utodata Corp. 
Tho rnsults worn surprisingly strong for .January, whkh is usually a slow month for tho industry. J\utomakers said warm weather and heavy lloet sales pushed up the numbnrs. The snasonally adjustnd annual sales rate was 17.6 million vnhidns, indicating what sales would bn for the full year if thny remained at the same pat:n for all 12 months. Last year's annual sales totalml 17 million vnhides. 
THE OBSERVER 







USINESS 
page 7 

Enron exec admits fudged figures 
Former investor relations head blames the pressure to meet Wall Street expectations 
Associated Press 
IIOUSTON -Bent on 
matehing or boating Wall 
Street expectations, Enron 
Corp. fudgnd its earnings fig­
urns with the knowledge of 
exncutives Jeffrey Skilling 
and Kenneth Lay, the com­
pany's formnr chief contact 
for investors tnstil'ied 
Wednesday. 
Leading ofT thn govern­ment's ease in Skilling and Lay's fraud trial. Mark Koenig told jurors the two men were dosely involvnd in company operations and sought to boost Enron 's stock price, which requirnd impmssing stock analysts. 
Koenig walknd jurors through several dralls of a July 2000 press release in which quarterly earnings were raisod from :12 cents per share to 34 cents because Enron executives wanted to boat Wall Streot nstimates by 2 cenL'>. 
"We thought it would maintain or increase the stock priee," Koonig tnstilied. 
Whilo Koenig did not say Skilling or Lay ordered a fraudulent change, he said he discussnd the July 2000 ehange with Skilling, then the company's president, who had to approve any changes to the financial fig­urns. 

In another case, in .Januarj 2000, Enron changnd its quarterly earn­matter-or-fact," Koenig testi­executives who have pleaded -at the time a key part of ings from 30 cenL<> per share fied.!\ bedrock of Lay and guilty to crimes and agreed Enron's f.,'Towth strategy. to :n cents after analysts Skilling's defense, as to cooperate with the gov­In one exampln, Skilling unexpectedly raised their explained to jurors in open­ernment. The defense has told an analyst $50 million of estimates to the higher level, ing statements Tuesday, is also suggested many or the the revenun in Enron's Koenig said. that the books were never executives were pressured broadband division eame 
On the morning of Jan. 19, cooked at Enron, and that by proseeutors into striking from the sale or a type of 2000, Koenig said, Lay told the company collapsed deals when they were not fiber -a figure Koenig said him "he went to bed and we because or a market panic guilty and will tell the gov­was not part or that divi­were 30 cenLo;;, and when he and relatively minor wrong­ernment anything it wanLo;; to sion's "core operating nw­awoke, he was watching one doing by a few employees. hear. enues." or the business stations. and Lay has also said publicly Jurors also heard part of Koenig said he later he saw that it was 31 cenL<>." that he believed the compa­several Enron conference learned the fibnr ligun~ W<L'> 
lie said Lay told him he ny was strong and that calls from 2000 and 2001 in actually $150 million, or had received a voice mail Enron was in no danger of which Koenig said Skilling nearly all of the broadband explaining the change. "lie railure. exaggerated the success or group's revenue that quar­understood the issue, fairly Koenig is one of 16 Enron Enron's broadband division ter. 

Google stock sinks, shocks investors 
Associated Press 
SJ\N FHANCISCO -Google Inc. shares sank Wednesday arter its earnings report disappointed Wall Street and stunned almost everyone who follows its stock, except the cornpany's founders. 
Founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin have insisted they will run their 7-year-old company the way they want, even if it means ignoring stoek market pressures to hit a widely watched earnings target. 
Now Tuesday's release of a fourth­quarter earnings report that badly missed analyst estimates will test their deriant attitude, along with investors' affection ror the online search engine leader. 
"This shows that Google is not impervious," Standard & Poor's ana­lyst Scott Kessler said Tuesday. 
That realization rattled previously bullish investors as Google 's stock price plunged $30.88, or 7.1 per­cent, to close at $401.78 in trading on the Nasdaq Stock Marknt. The downturn wiped out more than $9 billion in shareholder wealth and trimmed about $2 billion combined from the net worth of Page and Brin, who are both 32. 

The Mountain View-based compa­ny, which went public J\ugust 2004, said its net Income nearly doubled rrom the previous year to $372.2 million during the rinal three months of 2005. 
For most companies, that kind of stellar growth is a reason to cele­brate. But investors have become aecustomed to much more from Google, whicb had topped analyst estimates by at least 14 cents per share in each or its previous rive quarters as a public company. 
That streak of prosperity had helped to more than quadruple Google's market value in less than 18 months. 
This time around, Google fell woe­rully short of living up to the ana­lysts' estimates. 
If not for a charitable donation and stock compensation expenses, Google said it would have earned $1.54 per share. That rell well below the average estirnatn of $1.7(, per share among analysts surveyed by Thomson Finandal. 
Google released its results after the stoek market dosed Tuesday. 
The letdown is bound to disillusion some investors, S&P's Kessler said. "If you ask a lot of ptH>ple on Main Street why they own Google, they will tell you, 'Because it goes up every day.' Well, that's a great thesis until it goes down." 
Even with the sell-off, Google's longtime investors still will be sitting on substantial gains. The company's shares went public at $85 and were trading just slightly above $300 in late October when Google released a third-quarter report that delighted investors. 
Thursday, February 2, 2006

page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

OIN 
Thursday, February 2, 2006 
battles Satan

Does the Devil Really Exist? 
One must only take abrief look at any daily newspaper or TV news network to realize that evil is alive and well in the world around us. Some may claim that it is very antiquated or na'ive to believe that such evil is caused by the meddling of afigure called "Satan" in the Bible. However, the Scriptures and the Church have always taught that the devil is indeed areal entity. In the Scrip­tures, Jesus underwent temptation at the hands of Satan, and He later cast out demons and sent His disciples to do likewise. In the Catechism, we read that "Satan was at tlrst a good angel, made by God," but that a certain 'fall' occurred whereby Satan and the other angels with him "radically and irrevocably rejected God and his reign'' (#391-392). 
The belief in the reality of Satan can be expressly seen in many of the Church's liturgical rituals. Adult candidates for baptism are asked to renounce Satan and his empty promises. Throughout the Easter season, we reaffirm our faith and renounce Satan at the beginning of each liturgy before being sprinkled with holy water to commemorate our own baptism. The Church also has an official "Rite of Exorcism," with the ministry of exorcist being entrusted to the bishop of each diocese or to whichever priest he appoints. Exorcism and demonic possession have often been sensationalized through books and movies, but recently the subject has been examined in a bit more profound light in the 2005 movie The Exorcism ofEmily Rose, based on atrue story. The existence of such a Rite of Exorcism would be ridiculous if we believe that demons do not really exist. 
Despite the mass media's and society's efforts to convince us otherwise, the Scriptures and the Church believe that the devil does exist. I think CS Lewis said it best in The Screwtape Letters: the greatest victory for the devil is convincing mankind that he doesn't really exist (paraphrase). 
For additional reading, please consult the book "An Exor~ cist Tells His Story" by Gabriele Amorth. 
Send estions to Brett Perkins: Perkins.26@nd.edu! 
Phone 1-7800 
Main Office 319 CoMo 
Retreats Office 114 CoMo

Campus Ministry 
Web 
campusministry.nd.cdu 

Sarah Greene was an easy ch?ice to be this week's featured "Live-It" student because her activities bring her to the Campus Min­istry office so often. Sarah is aSenior Eng~ !ish major and has an Education, Schooling and Society minor. Sarah's service at Notre Dame starts in Lyons Hall, where she is an RA. Even though being an RA is anear full time commitment, Sarah has not let her service to her Lyons Hall community stop her from being involved in service to the rest of the Notre Dame community. This summer Sarah lead high school students as they deepened their faith and contemplated their vocation through NDVision. The program that most owes adebt of gratitude to Sarah is the Notre Dame Encounter with Christ retreat. In addition to being ateam leader on NDE #87, Sarah is also on the NDE Board. Sarah and the rest of the board are in charge of discerning new retreat leaders and also looking out for the .overall welfare of the retreat program. These are very involved responsibilities and everyone who has had agreat NDE experi­ence benefits from all of Sarah's efforts. Finally, Sarah cements her status as an overachiever with her participation in the Women's Liturgical Choir. The responsibil­ities of an RA would certainly be enough of acommitment to dominate Sarah's senior year, but her true commitment to her faith is shown in how much she extends and gives of herself. Sarah has certainly had to make sacrifices this year, but she has certainly not sacrificed serving God and helping others. Thank you Sarah! Campus Ministry would not be the same without your help. 
Let us know who out there is making adifference! Send nominations to 
Brian Vassel at 
---~---------~----~--~--­
Thursday, February 2, 2006 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS · page 9 
architecture studio," Maricich said. "A lot of it is !for trustees
Students 
continued from page 1 
"I thought !Jenkins' speech! was interesting, but l thought it was a little general, a little vaguo," Colelough said. 
'Marieich said because she was abroad during tho fall semnstnr as wnll, shn hadn't ynt 
tol see how it's run and llearnl why the Home program is important for architecture stu­dents." 
Michael Lykoudis, dean and professor in the architecture school, alrnady gave a presenta­tion to visitors about the -Notre Dame architecture program, speaking in par­ticular about the 
Going HOME this Spring Breakil 
Instead of rn CD Qrn Do DUJ [] ll 8J ~ 83 , catch a few prospective Domers! .
hoard  Jnnkins  "/think the trustees  importance  of  
spnak until thn convocation. "It was nice to  were pleasantly surprised to see  students spend­ing the third of their five aca­ 
lwar him horn in  Notre Dame  demic  years  
Honw. I nspodally liknd Fathnr  students here."  studying in Home, Jacobs  
Jnnkins incorpo­ said.  
rating  Thomas  Dennis Jacobs  "I will bn there  
Aquinas into his  vice president and  for  the  open  
talk  ...  just elear  associate provost  house,"  he  

and simple," slw said. "I'd also rnad his lspenchl last wnnk that cor­rnspondnd with some of tho top­ics today." 
Colelough said she enjoyed .Jnnky's synthnsis of thn history of thn congrngation of tho lloly Cross throughout the years. 
Though fnwnr than a dozen students attnndnd. thn nvent, .Jambs said hn know thorn wore elass conflicts that prohibitod morn studnnts from corning. 
"I think the trustees were plnasantly surprised to see Notrn DarnH studnnts hero," Jacobs said. 
Somn architncturn students dneidnd to attend the event becausn the Board of Trustees has a scheduled visit to their studio in downtown Horne today. 
"I think part of the rnason we got an open invitation was that thn Board of Trustnns arn com­ing for an opnn exposition of the added. 
Several stu­donts attonding John Cabot University through Notrn Dame also attcmded the 1went. 
"I went to see [Fisichellal at Notre Dame talking about the situation with Catholic educa­tion. I wanted to follow up on that," junior Danice Brown said. 
Such an event in Home spon­sored by Notre Dame was a wel­come change, students said. 
"The closest thing to this that we attended was when IL. Francos Hooney Ill, U.S. Ambassador to the Holy Seel invited us to his house for din­ncr," said Colclough, adding that the invitation was informal and not an academic event with guests from the United States, like tho convocation Wednesday. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 

Sign UP to be a High School Ambassador! 
Mandatorv Training Sessions fanend iust one): 
Monday, February 6th at 6:30 OR 7:30p.m. Tuesday, February 7th at 6:30 OR 7:30p.m. Room 200, Main Building 
For Questions, email Callie or Katie at hsa@nd.edu 

is currently accepting applications for the 2006-2007 term for the following positions: 
MANAGING EDITOR ASST. MANAGING EDITOR 
Applicants for Managing Editor and Assistant Managing Editor should demonstrate strong journalistic and management skills. An in-depth understanding of newspaper production, including skills in Microsoft Word, Quark XPress and Photoshop, is required. Experience with Macintosh computers is helpful. 
pplications for any of the above positions should be at least five pages and should explain the applicant's qualifications and goals. 
Managing Editor and Assistant Managing Editor applications are due by Friday, February 3 at 5 p.m. Submit all applications to Mike Gilloon in the Observer office located in the South Dining Hall basement. 
Please direct questions about these positions or the application procedure to Mike Gilloon and 
Claire Heininger at 631-4542. 

----------~-----~-----------. 
page 10 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 2, 2006 

Photos by CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer 

Left, Superior General of the Holy Cross Father Hugh Cleary kisses the pope's ring. Center, University President Father John Jenkins delivers a speech at an aca­demic convocation held in Rome Wednesday. Right, Pope Benedict XVI descends the steps of the Paul VI Auditorium at the Vatican. 
not engaging on the highest tions and contra:ry views in a versities must prepare their when the community isn't. level the most pressing ques­manner that will speak to and students to be "scientifically "Now, does any of this sound


Address 
tions of our age, we are not help persuade others" -competent and fully profes­familiar to my Notre Dame fulfilling our mission." another method that seemed sional" people who know how friends out here?" he asked,
continued from page 1 
These questions, he said, similar to how Jenkins is con­"to head toward the future inviting a few laughs. pertain to economic and social ducting the dialogue on aca­with optimism that Jenky said Catholic schools justice, the meaning and pur­demic freedom and Catholic introduce[s] them to the were unique in their ability toAcademe," focused heavily on pose of human life, the rela­character. Church and society as young make a "singular contribution
the Church-culture interface tionship between science and There are "great opportuni­men and women. to educational mosaic of theand said it was the role of a 
religion and morality in pro­ties as well as challenges to a "In our universities, they can world."
Catholic university to serve as fessions, among other topics. Catholic institution," Jenkins find a fertile [ground] for dis­"The world today doesn't
intermediary between the 
Next, Jenkins said Catholic said. "We cannot address these covering their life as a voca­need more private schools.
sometimes opposing forces. 
universities "must listen to and issues without strong, vibrant tion," he said. "Our universi­There are plenty of them outHe drew upon the teachings take seriously the contrary Catholic universities." ties are called to bring about there," he said. "But both theof the late Pope John Paul II, voices" -a concept that, Fisichella delivered an ... an intelligent search for the world and the Church needwho said, "A Catholic universi­
while not directly acknowl­address entitled truth and its more Catholic schools that
ty, aware that the human cul­edged, seemed linked to the "The Role of the existence." remember their r.eason forture is open to revelation and 
question-and­Roman Catholic "If a Catholic Jenky's existing. Our schools should
transcendence, is 
answer format Universities." speech, "The never choose between being
also a primary and university is not 
of his addresses One of the pri­Congregation excellent or being Catholic.
privileged place 
':4s John Paul on academic mary aspects of engaging on the of Holy Cross Catholic school should not be

for fruitful dia­
made clear in this freedom and his speech was highest level the most and Catholic 'either or,' it should be 'both
logue between the 
Gospel and cul­dialogue between Catholic charac­the balance Education," and."'
pressing

ter last week. between science traced the After the speakers -intro­ture." 
the Church and 

This Church-cul­To follow the and Catholic uni­questions ofour age, story of the duced by theology professorculture, both are teachings of versities in the we are not fulfilling Holy Cross John Cavadini -completed
ture relationship is enriched. " Aquinas, one 21st century -a schools back to their addresses, Provost
mutually benefi­our mission. 
must "begin by topic found in their 19th cen­Thomas Burish awarded hon­
cial, Jenkins said. 
stating the per­Jenkins' address tury roots in orary degrees to Fisichella and
"As John Paul 
Father John Jenkins son's objection as well. Father John Jenkins Congregation U.S. Ambassador to the Holy

made clear in this 
University president in a manner that As heads of University president founder Basil See Frances Rooney III. 
dialogue between he or she would universities, "the Anthony Fisichella, Burish said, was
the Church and 
find acceptable," first thing we Moreau, con­honored for multiple reasons,
culture, both are 
Jenkins said, quoting Aquinas. must do is look to the future of necting those roots to modern including "revering Jesus noenriched," he said. "How can "Indeed, put it in a way that is our young people," Fisichella Notre Dame. less in the academy than in the
we accomplish this [role as 
even more persuasive than he said. "[Moreau] wanted schools to public square."
intermediary]? How can we do or she would." Second, Fisichella said, is be up to date in methodology Rooney, appointed to hisit better?" 
This is necessary, Jenkins bearing personal witness as and curriculum," Jenky said. position by the Vatican in
To build his model for how a said, because a Catholic uni­credibility of teaching. "He liked to encourage-service November, "aspires to assist in
Catholic university should 
versity cannot fulfill its role "Personal credibility is not and volunteerism. His brothers the alignment of the earthlymanage the conflict and facili­
"unless we listen to and under­extraneous to teaching," he and priests were encouraged and heavenly orders,'' Burishtate the dialogue, Jenkins 
stand the contrary voices." said. "[We must provide] func­to sacrifice their weekends, said.
shifted roles from authority to The third step, Jenkins said, tions that will last [students] even their school holidays, to The event concluded with a
teacher, explaining how 
is to attempt to resolve an all of their lives." conduct world missions and reception for those in atten­Thomas Aquinas -one of his issue "in the best way one can He quoted Pope John Paul II contribute to parish education. dance, culminating the official
personal interests -formed 
in the light of Christian faith and said, "We face a great Moreau also actively promoted Board of Trustees meetings.
his "disputed question" struc­and revelation," striving to challenge at the end of this lay collaboration for the direc­Trustees will leave Rometure. 
give reasons "persuasive to millennium, [to go] from phe­tion, finance and continuing Friday morning.
"First, a Catholic university 
those engaged in discussion." nomenal to fundamental, a influence of the school ... He
and .its scholars must identify 
He said the final aspect of step as necessary as it is also stayed very close to the
the great and profound ques­the process is to "try to urgent." alumni association, and it has Contact Maddie Hanna at
tions of our time," Jenkins 
address and respond to ques-Fisichella said Catholic uni-been faithful to [him] even mhannal@nd.edu
said. "If a Catholic university is 

Photos by CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer 

Left, conference attendees convene at a reception. Center, Benedict XVI gives a final blessing at the public Papal Audience Wednesday. Right, former papal candidate Cardinal Francis Arinze, far right, listens to Jenkins' speech at a convocation entitled "Contribution of Catholic Universities to the Church and Culture" in Rome. 

Thursday, February 2, 2006 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page II 
Planet dee111ed larger than Pluto 




Police apologize 
Assudatcd Press calculation of UB313's diameter. Some astronomers have debat­By measuring how much heat ed over what is a planet and I.OS AN<;I\I,ES-Sdtmtists say it radiates, German sdentists led whether Pluto should keep its 
for two ejections tlwy have confirmed that a so­by Frank Bertoldi of the status. The diniculty is there is eallnd I Oth plannt diseover1:1d Univnrsity ol' Bonn estimated no of'fieial definition and some last year is bigger than Pluto, but that UB313 was about 1,8(>4 argue that setting standards like 
Unlawful conduct charge against Cindy 
that likely won't qtwll thn debatn miles across. That makes it larg­size limits opens the door too 
Sheehan over anti-war T-shirt dropped 
owr what makes a planet. er than Pluto, which has a diam­wide. 
Thn astronomnrs who spotted  eter of about l ,429 miles.  Miehael  Brown,  the  
thn ky, rocky body ­ informally  "It is now in<Teasingly hard to  astronomer at the California  Associated Press  
t~alltHI 2003 UB313 -had r<'portml only a rough 11stimat11  justify calling Pluto a planet if UB31 :3 is not also given this sta­ Institute of Technology who dis­covered UB313 and announced  WASHINGTON  -Capitol  
of its size based on  its hright­ tus," Bertoldi said in a state­ it last July, said the Germans'  Police dropped  a  eharge of  
IWSS.  mnnt.  measurnmnnt seemed plausible.  unlawful conduct against anti­ 
But  anotlwr  group  of  Details  were  published in  He said his team is using the  war activist Cindy Sheehan on  
resnarchers has eonw  up with  Thursday's issue of the journal  Hubble  Space Telescope  to  Wednesday and apologized for  

what is lwliovnd to be tho first Nature. 
February 2 
You Don't Really Have to be a Rhodes Scholar to Land a Fellowship for Post Graduate Study: Introduction of the Fellowship Office 
Hammes Student Lounge, Coleman Morse. 
Contact information: 
Office of Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
C:OU.I'GE OF ARTS ANO LETIERS 
Once a year the men of Keenan gather to sing, dance, and make fun of everything you hold dear. 
The battle rages February 9·11 

Ticket Distributions: 

Notre Dame Students: Feb 3, 4-6pm;JACC Gate I 0 Saint Mary's Students: Feb 3, l-3pm; O'Laughlin concession stand 
You may bring up to 2 Student IDs; 2Tickets per ID presented 
"I'd like to find out morn 
information." llastings said in 
an intnrview, identifying the 
man only as bning from 
Broward County in Florida. 
"lie is a eonstitunnt of mine. I 
invited him proudly." 
Sheehan's T-shirt alluded to 
the number of soldiers killed in 
Iraq: "2245 Dead. How many 
more'?" Capitol Police chargml 
her with a misdmnnanor for 
violating the District of 
Columbia's code against unlaw­
ful or disruptive conduct on 
any part of' the Capilol 
grounds, a law enl'orcement 
ollicial said. She was released 
from custody and llnw hom!\ 
Wednesday to Los Angnlns. 
Young's shirt had just thn opposite message: "Support tlw Troops -Defending Our Freedom." 
The two wonwn appnamd to have offended tradition as much as the law, according to several law nnl'orcnmnnt and eongrnssional oflidals. By cus­tom. thn annual address is to be a dignified alTair in which the president reports on the state of the nation. Guests in the gallery who wear shirts deemed political in nature have, in past years. bmm asknd to change or cover them up. 
Generally, the House's ser­gmwt at arms sets out rules at the llouse speaker's direction. The Capitol Police enforce them and the Secret Servico evaluates any thrnat to the president. 
Hules doaling mainly with what peopln can bring and tt~lling them to refrain from rnading, writing, smoking, nat­ing, drinking, applauding or taking photographs are out­lined on tho baek of gallery passes givnn to tourists nvnry day. 
I lownvnr, Statn of tho Union guesl<; don't reenive any guidn­lines, llanley said. "You would assumn that if' you wnrn com­ing to an evnnt like the Statn of the Union addrnss you would bn drossnd in appropriate attirn," she said. 
Sheehan, tho mother of a sol­dier killnd in Iraq, had beon invited to tho spnech and given a tieknt by Hop. Lynn Woolsoy, D-Calif'. 
Capitol Polien Sgt. Kimbnrly SchneidPr said polic11 warned Shenhan that displays such as her T-shirt worn not allownd. 
Sheehan said shn had one arm out of her coat when an oflicnr ynllnd. "Protnster." She said sho intnndnd to liln a First Am1111dnwnt lawsuit over tho episode. 
Young was rnrnovnd from tlw gallnry during Bush's addrnss and told she was b11ing trnat11d tho sam11 as Shoehan. 
llor husband was angry about thn way sh11 was tr11ated. 
"Becausn shn had on a shirt that somnone didn't lik11 that said support our troops, slw was kkknd out of this gallnry," Young said Oil tlw llousn noor Wednnsday. holding up the gray shirt. 
"Shamo, shamn," hn seolded. 
Bevnrly Young was sittjng about six rows from first lady Laura Bush wlwn slw was asked to loavn. Shn argued with police in the hallway out­side the I louse chamber. 
directly figure out its size. 

ejecting her and a congress­man's wife from President Bush's State of the Union address for wearing T-shirts with war messages. 
Poliee removod Sheehan and 
Beverly Young, wife of Hep. 
C.W. "Bill" Young, H-Fla., from the visitors gallery Tuosday night. Sheehan was taken away in handcuffs beforn J~ush's arrival at the Capitol and charged with a misdn­meanor, while Young was not arrested. 
Capitol Police did not explain why Sheehan was arrestnd and Young was not. However, Capitol Police Chief Terrancn Gainer was asking the U.S. attorney's office to drop the charge against Sheehan, according to Deputy House Sergeant of Arms Kcrrj llanley. 
"They wern operating under the misguided impression that the T-shirt was not allowed," Hanley said Wednesday. "The fact that she !Sheehan! was wearing a T-shirt is not enough reason to be asked to leave the gallery or bn removod from the gallery or be arrested." 
And in a private meeting Wednesday, Gainer apologiznd and said he planned to issue a statement, Hep. Young told reporters. 
"They apologized," Young said. "They made a serious mistake. What they did had no basis." 
A fornign-born Ameriean citi­zen who was the guest of Hep. Aleee Hastings, D-Fia., also was taken by police from the gallery just above the House floor, Ilastings said Wednesday. 
The congressman met with Gainer and said he also requested a meeting with House Speaker Dennis llastnrt, R-111., about the incident. 
THE OBSERVER 








IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, February 2, 2006 
THE OBSERVER Freedotn and responsibility 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen ·Reynolds AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Hearher Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gonumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR; Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.ed~ 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.J@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.J@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene .I@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. 1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Universiiy ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverrisemenrs, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisemenrs based on conq,nt. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. C..ommentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to F.ditor in Chief Claire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS S99 1-4UU0) i~ published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Asubscriplic•n 10 The Oh~c:m:r is $100 fCJ~r one academic ye.u; 5"55 for one seme!>rcr. 
'J'h..: Ob:>trYer is published at; POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send addrtts5 corrc:cdom: w: Notre OiUlle, IN 46'556.0179 TheObacrvet Peri1•dkal postage paid at Nom: D;ame P.O. Box779 and Jddilional mailing offices 024 Sourh Dining Hall 
Nom: Dame, lN 465'S6-on9 
The Oh-.crvcr is a member ofthe Al.Wl.iated Pti!Sli. AU reproduction tights an: 
r~rvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Katie Perry Bobby Griffin Joe Piarulli Chris Khorey 
Marcela Berrios Kyle Cassily Viewpoint Jordan Beltz Caroline Murphy Scene Graphics Liz Byrum Graham Ebetsch 

By the standards of the genre, University President Father John Jenkins' inaugural address last September was better than most, rising above the merely platitudinous to make the sort of propos­als with which one might conceivably dis­agree. I disagree with one myself. Jenkins' plan to increase the intellectual engage­ment of undergradu­ates by quadrupling the amount of stu­dents who participate 

Peter

in research as "fellow 
Wicks

inquirers with the fac­ulty" severely under­Englishmanestimates the period Abroad of apprenticeship that most academic disciplines require before students -the occasional prodigy notwithstanding -can engage in original research that represents a real contribu­tion to their field. It would be a disservice to students to flatter them into believing otherwise. 
For the most part. however, Jenkins kept the discussion of the challenges fac­ing Notre Dame during his presidency at a safely abstract level. He was much bolder when he spoke to the University's faculty, students, and alumni last week on the subject of academic freedom and the University's Catholic character, and initiat­ed an open, heated and necessary debate. 
Whether the debate will be productive remains to be seen. Since Jenkins stated very clearly that he "will not lead by con­sensus, nor by majority vote, nor in response to the pressures that individuals or groups inside or outside the University may bring to bear," I would have thought that it would behoove his critics to at least pretend to pay attention to what he actu­ally said, but many preferred to respond not to the speech he gave but instead to the speech which they are confident that -as a heterosexist puppet of wealthy alumni with hankerings for a return to the good old days of the Inquisition -Jenkins must have given. 
Having first noted Jenkins' insistence that his mind is not yet made up on these matters, let's review his treatment of the two most reliable annual sources of con­troversy on campus, The Queer Film Festival and "The Vagina Monologues." 
Jenkins said the rrrst will go ahead under a title that more accurately conveys the academic nature of the event while the second will take place in DeBartolo's largest auditorium rather than one of the campus theaters and, unlike previous years, it will not be a fundraising perform­ance. Both positions are legitimate and eminently reasonable. 
Rather like contemporary debates over the constitutional separation of church and state, disputes about academic free­dom tend to go wrong because everyone assumes that "academic freedom" means whatever they think it should mean. 
Those who hope to contribute to this debate eflectively would do well to read (in addition, obviously, to Jenkins' own speech) The American Association of University Professors' Statement of Principles on Academic Freedom and Tenure. One of the points which that doc­ument is at pains to emphasize is that the rights of academic freedom have correla­tive duties. 
Departments that allocate their resources in ways that do not-directly or indirectly -further the goal of intellec­tual inquiry are failing in their duties. If that failure becomes chronic then the President of the University has an obliga­tion to intervene. 
In the case of the Monologues I fail to see how the sponsorship of a play that has been performed on campus every year since 2002 can be justified by an academ­ic department on academic grounds. Saving the world is not part of the English department's academic mission, which is just as well because there is no reason to suppose that they would be especially good at it. 
It is often claimed that the play pro­motes dialogue on important issues of sexuality and violence, but that is dissem­bling. Most of what is euphemistically called dialogue is just people taking turns to denounce each other. A university edu­cation should equip students to tell the dif­ference. · 
Maybe the play's organizers don't know of any other play that could provoke a debate on the issues that concern them, but surely someone in the Department of Film, Television and Theatre must. 
Why not sponsor a production of David Mamet's Olrmnna? The play deals explicit­ly with themes of sex, power, authority and (not coincidentally) academic free­dom, and has reliably provoked contro­versy amongst audiences since it first debuted in 1992. 
As the debate over academic freedom at Notre Dame continues, let us avoid suc­cumbing to the myth that secular univer­sities are bastions of academic freedom and free speech. It's been only a few years since the dean of students at Cornell stood in solidarity with students who burnt copies of the Cornell Review. 
A spokesman for the university defend­ed the burning as "symbolic," which it certainly was. Notre Dame will be held to a diffenmt standard than secular private universities because the source of the per­ceived threat to academic freedom is the University's Catholicism. 
One aspect of Jenkins' speech did con­cern me, which is that he seemed to sug­gest that sponsoring a performance of a play is tantamount to an endorsement of its values. In the case of 'The Vagina Monologues," this is a plausible claim because the play is closely tied to a politi­cal campaign and because, for that rea­son, its organizers want to stage a produc­tion every year. That makes is an excep­tional case, and a poor example from which to draw general principles. 
Peter Wlcks is a graduate student in the Philosophy Department. He is very much in favor oftruth, justice and dialogue, and staunchly anti-Hitler. Peter can be con­tacted at pwicks@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
'Monologues' a reflection of society 
I'm concerned that University President Father John Jenkins isn't truly listening. I was disappointed at last week's forum when, after taking 45 min­utes to present his side, Father Jenkins attempted to refute the concerns of the students rather than simply listening and considering them. 
We, as students, treasure the chance to encourage Father Jenkins to consider our perspectives. This is exactly what "The Vagina Monologues" strives to do. 
Anyone who watches the play must understand that the "Monologues" don't necessarily represent the beliefs of the author or the students performing them -just as the University does not neces­sarily endorse the events it sponsors. 
Eve Ensler simply provides a forum for the liberating the long-suppressed voices of women and an opportunity for actors and audience to consider these foreign 
OBSERVER POLL 
What do you think of the Board of Trustees meeting in Rome? 
Vote by today at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

perspectives. 
The actors hold notecards, symbolizing that the stories they tell are other worn­ens' stories. They speak directly or indi­rectly about vaginas because they are attempting to reclaim the part of their anatomy that has been a justification and a means for sexual, physical, emotional and psychological abuse -not to make themselves sexual objects. 
Some of these sto.ries are meant to shock us into critical analysis. Many con­test the Monologue that describes the seduction of a 16-year old girl by an older woman. Its purpose is not to laud the experience, but to ask us to consider what kind of society we have created when such an appalling scenario is a woman's only positive sexual experience as a female. 
Silencing the voices of these women is not the answer. The purpose of the 
~ ·. . .. : .. . : ~· . : :
. ··t tt
t··

.•~..ll··JDI•a re• er_
Sb
I . . ...~ .... , 
•.•.1 to·········./ t.,h.~·,e. Ed···_ll.::.t .. at.
.. :o.~)r
.. , I'.:

Iwww.ndsmcobserver,com l
~ . . . ' 
~ ~: 
movement is to acknowledge these voic­es. 
Refusing to listen is refusing to acknowledge pain and suffering and refusing to consider the systemic prob­lems in our society that cause and per­petuate them. What good do we accom­plish by silencing ideas that contradict Catholic teaching, except to promote blind faith and blindness to injustice? 
Rather, we should critically engage with the "Monologues," exploring how they contradict Catholic teaehings as well as why they arn important as a means of liberating female voices and conceptual­izing structural subordination l!f women. This would truly be respectful dialogue. 
Jackie Clark senior Welsh Family Hall Feb. I 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Have patience with all things, but chiefly have patience with yourself Do not lose courage in considering your own imperfections, but every day begin anew." 
Francis de Sales Catholic saint 


THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, February 2, 2006 page 13 
Leadership not just for authority 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

I lave you noticed how the reality of authority-in those who have it and those who don't -hao.; surrounded us roeontly? People who have newly eome to positions of authority, others who've elaimed it lor a long timn, and still oth­ers who hopo to acquiro Kate it soon have all been in Barrett the news of late. 
And the Gospel road-FaithPoint 
ing hLo.;t Sunday dealt with Jesus' authority. lie taught with unmis­takable authority and even the undean spiriLo.; obeyed him. 
l'rnsidrmt Bush spoke Tuesday night with all the authority of his oflke on that most "pn~sidnntial" of oee<L'lions-the State of the Union addrnss. The I htmlL'l party seorod a dm:isive victory in rnennt Palestinian elec­tions. surprising ewn tht~msnlves with the nnw authority they had gained. Bnn Bnrnankn (admit it, you're thinking, "who'!") stepped into whatrmUly call the "most pownrful neonomic post in the world" Tunsday fi11lowing tho oflidal retirement of Fndt~ral Hnsorvn Chairman Alan Grmmspan. 
But what givns thnsn people and parties real authority'! l'n~sidnnt Bush spoke T1wsday at a time when about half of the country views his authority skeptically: they disagree with his handling of the war in Iraq and don't believe he's an effective pres­ident. Ilamao.; now controls 60 percent of the Palestinian parliament, and yet the United States and other government.<; around the world have stated that they will not deal with the Barnas party because of its history of commitment to the destruction of Israel. Ben Bernanke may hold the same title ao.; Alan Greenspan did lor the last 18 years, but will not be able to lead with the authority of Mr. Greenspan until he puts some time and wise decisions in the bank, so to speak. 
On the other hand, remember t11e Gospel reading we just heard this past Sunday? .Jesus entered a synagogue and began to teach, and "the pP-ople were astonished at his tnaehings, for he taught them as one having authority and not a'i the scribes" (Mark 1:22). Some leaders ean command real authority, and to paraphrase the immortal words of former Justice Potter Stewart. we believe that "we'll know it when we sec it." 
Something about Jesus' person and words gave him instant credibility; in faet, this story tells of one of his very first ven­tures into public ministry. Ao.; Jesus would eome to prove over time, to the growing dis­may of both state and religious leaders, the unfailing consistency of his words and actions only strengthened his authority as he continued to teach and heal. HLo.; follow­ers knew and saw that even unto his own death he would teach forgiveness, love of one's enemies, and care for the poorest of the poor. 
We also grant authority to those whose words and actions fit what we know about the wider world. Jesus articulated wisely the hypocrisy of the Pharisees and others, for whom the human traditions that had arisen around the teachings of the Ten Commandments had grown to become more important than the Commandment.<; themsolves (see Mark 7:1-13). Jesus himself never strayed from Truth, for his words were the Word of God, and still speak to the deepest realities of our lives. 
Which brings us to the question we ean each ask ourselves, "What qualities about my own words and actions give me authori­ty?" Obviously, we don't have to be tho pres­ident or chair or director of anything to want erodibility and authority in our fami­lies, with our friends, in the dao.;sroom, in our ehosen profession, and perhaps most importantly in our lives of faith. Do our words and actions show tlmt we consistent­ly reverence the Word of (;od and appmci­ate the power of the Sacramento.;'? If we worship on Sunday and pray throughout the week, do we thHn makH every effort to allow that relationship with God to influ­ence how we speak about others, how we treat our friends, how we dress, how we socialize, or how we spend money and time? 
We may never have the opportunity to give the State of the Union address or make decisions that will all'ect finandal market.o.; around the world, but ifwe would daim to be Christians, we have a most important role to play: each of us hao.; ao.; our highest calling a part in bringing about the Kingdom of God hem on earth. We ean begin to do that with Jesus' example of authority in our minds and hoart.o.;, to help us speak and act eonsistently, compao.;sion­ately and honestly, our lives and words reflecting Jesus' life and God's Word. 
Kate Barrett is Director ofResources & .'>'pedal ProjectsftJr Campus Ministry. .'·lhe can be reached at /JarreU.28@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsert,er. 
'Monologues' or dialogue: Another perspective 
I would like to pondor a number of issuns relevant to the mt:ent Prnsidtmtial addmss, "Aeadnmic Frendom and Catholic Character." These are the topies of (1) doctrinal pluralism at a Catholic Univ1)rsity, (2) the spm:ial status of various pnrli1rming and visual arts (staw~d plays, film, art shows and tlw like). The pmsidnnt of the Ed Univorsity also discussod (3) the 
Manier 

1u:adcmie frm~dom of studenlo.;, but 
Guest

I li1rmulatn a reasonable alterna­
Columnist

tive to 1~urrent and prospective poli­cy in that arna. As a University mmmunity wn must also give more attention to (4) cri­tnria for fair proeeduros of dispute resolution and adjudication, <L'l well as the accountability required if nxneutivn powor is not to be absolute. 
These issues were split up into three part.'i. Yesterday I discussed doctrinal pluralism and special status of various pnrli>rming and visual arts. Today I will continue with academic frond om of student.o.; and tomorrow I will handle eriteria for fair procedures of dispute resolution and adjudication. 
3) Student Hight.o.; and Frnedoms. It is hard to under­stand the lnvnl of passion associated with the current eontrovorsy over public presentations of The Queer Film Festival and "The Vagina Monologues" apart from thn marknd contr<L'lt between aeademie freedom in the classroom and the dose administrative rn!,rula­t.ion of student organizations. II' tho critical inquiry nssential to thn intellnrtuallil'n is to flourish on this wmpus, politicallibnrals (e.g. tho MUJ>) insist that tho basic standards of f'rm~dom of association pmvail in student liti~. But such l'rnndoms have bonn limited by prPeisnly tlw same considnrations advanrod for with­holding sponsorship of tlw ali1rnnwntimwd artistic pn~sent.ations. Unilateral exncutive dneisions havn dPniPd tlw inclusion of sexual orinntation in the non­discrimination dausns assoeiatP<I with our hiring prac­t.kns. In strictly parallnl fashion, ro1~ognition of various studl'llt (;J.BTQ organizations and even gay-straight alliancns has bm~n dnniPd. 
Of r.ourse, studenLo.; and faculty am fhm to discuss tlws1~ issw~s in thn classroom, nv1m as we aro all f'rm1 to discuss thn rnhwant Catholic principlns in tho class­room. But studnnt organizations promoting Catholic t.nw~hing on many of thn issuos at stako in tho eurnmt controversy (l{ightto I .iii~) flourish on campus-and arn JWnmnially aetivn in pfl(Jrt.<; to suppmss public pm­sentations of dissenting views-while dissenting organizations are refused recognition and all its privi­
leges. The principle "inquiry must bo protectnd so 
informod advocacy will contribute to the vitality of 
publie life" is severely restricted at Notre Dame by considerations of doctrinal orthodoxy, again as a con­snqup,nee of unilateral executive doeisions not subject 
to formal proeedures of critical review. 

Clearly, we must continue to ask ourselves whether or not such restriction is essential to the Catholic char­acter of Notre Dame. Does recognition imply endorse­ment'? 
No responsible Catholic expects the role of an edu­cated Catholic laity to be restricted to the sphere of monkish contemplation. That role must bo structured by concern for a healthy continuity of critical inquiry and responsible practice. But such combinations can­not flourish in a climate of enforced orthodoxy. Rnstrictions currently imposed upon student life diminish the vitality of intellectual activity on this cam­pus. Student organizations which seek to continue the discussion of issues open to critical inquiry in the dassroom have been denied recognition, or the range of speech permissible in those organizations has been subjected to administrativo regulation. No better way of labeling certain activities as "merely" aeademie has ever bnen conceived. No wonder that a general lack of enthusiasm for intelleetual disputation is so commonly observod as part of the prevailing tom per of under­graduate life at Notrn Dame. 
I have somntimcs argund that the markod division of principlns governing the academic life of tho Univnrsity and thosn governing "student all'airs" makes Notrn Dame a house dividod against itself. Of eours1~ I speak as a politieallibnral, but we must ask our most religiously eonsorvative colloaguos and stu­dnnl'l whetlwr thn bnst way to enhanen the religious idnntity of Notre Damn is to ban rneognition of dissent­ing studnnt organizations. It. semns instnad t.o broad­east the view that, at Notm Dame, certain very impor­tant issues eannot bn diseussnd, nor may studnnts assodatn to promotn thnir eondusions bPtweon the hours of 6 p.m. and 6 a.m. 
Hd Manier is a professor in the department ofphi­losophy. 1/e can be contacted at amanier@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those (~{the author and not necessarily those (~{The Observer. 

Performance art not doctrine 
"The Vagina Monologues'" sexual eontm1t is at odds with tlw teachings of tl1e Catl10lic Church. I, an ardent supporter of "Tho Vagina Monologues," will f'ronly admit this fact. llownwr, whnn did tho administration of the University of Notre Damn and the administrations of Catholic colleges around the country fhrgnt that 'Tho Vagina Monologuos" is a porli~rmance art piece? Part of the role of all types of art is to evoke an emotional mspimse from tho viewer. Eve Enslor, the author of tho "Monolo~,ruos," chose to create a performance art piecn based on over two hun­dred interviews about tho soxual experiences of various womnn. Her final result was the dramatization of those mal-lili1 ovenLo.;. "The Vagina Monologues" speak about ti~malo sexuality from various backgrounds, and the views presented do not always demonstrate a perfect example of Catholic doctrine. llowcver, this i'l the reality of what happens in tl10 world. 
"The Vagina Monologues" give us a brilliant pieee of art that transcend'> all cultures and religions to spread the mossage that female sexuality often is an oppressive burden on women, and such violence can no longer be a veilod issue in our modorn world. This overarching theme strongly speaks to us ao.; Catholics and our quest to impart equal dignity to all pnopln (Dominus Jesus, 2000). If we do not find this thorne to be a strong olmnent in "The Vagina Monologues," then we have the freedom to refrain from seeing the porfi>rmanee. llowovcr, a'i intelligent and inquisitive students who have experienced a great deal of moral training both in and out of tho dw;sroom. have wn not earned the opportunity to recognize that the "Monologues" is not nnces­sarily something to imitatn; instead it is a lnsson in the hardships faced by thosn whoso soxuality is not respn1:tnd? 
There is no mao.;on that a Catholic interpmtation of 'Thn Vagina Monolo~,rues" cannot nxisl. Thorn is also no rtJ<L'lon that such a perfi1rmance should be bamwd li1r daring to bring up event.o.; that happnn to women all across the world. Conservative Catholil:s must malizn that pervnrse snxuality d01~s exist, and by stifling the truth, Uwy are breeding a generation of pPopln who do not understand the problnms of' sexual violenee. Father .hmkins, I implom you to trust your studnnt.o.; to absorb the pow­erful mnssagn of "The Vagina Monologuns" that h<L'l bnPn illus­trated through tho intensn discussions and tho support shown li>r organizations tlmt work to eounsnl abused womnn. c;iving the student body the freedom to interpmt this pnrliH·mam:n art piocn will be thn strongest nwao.;ure of your trust in NotrP Damn studenlo.; to ehallnngn and filrm sound Catholic dmnu~t•~rs. 
Gretchen Chriszt 
St'nior 
ofl~cunpus 
feb. I 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 14 
Thursday, February 2, 2006 
CD REVIEWS 

Dre camp veteran's debut 1 hitts' hard 
By CHRIS KEPNER 
Scene Critic 
Listeners may not have heard of Hittman yet. but many people would be willing to bet that they've heard him. In fact, if they dug Dr. Ore's "2001," then they're already a Ilittman fan. See, II itt contributed his lyrical talents to 10 of the tracks on that album. Now, nearly seven years later, "Hittmanie Verses" is dropping and fans are finally getting that solo joint they've been waiting for. 
The big question surrounding this album's release deals with Bittman's decision to bring it out on Siek Bay Heeords, rather than on Dre's Aftermath label. Dr. Ore is a musical gnnius with whom countless artists want to. work, and his talent and work ethic arc unparalleled. Both rappers and producers learn from their time with him, labeling Ore as the Miles Davis of his generation. 
But when Davis started out half a century ago, musicians had little to do with the production of an album. He was eventually able to wrest creative control from the men with the money, but perhaps he still had record deals with deadlines that pressured him to get things done more quickly than he would have if he had all the time he wanted. 

Things are very different today. Ore has his own label, which means he answers to no one. The reason Dr. Ore has only released two albums in the past 15 years is because he is a perfec­tionist. It's no accident that "The Chronic" (1992) and "2001" (1999) arc as tight as thBy arB. An Bnormous amount of time was put in-especially for "2001." 
The perfectionism that delays his own albums seems to carry over to those that he produces. He won't put his stamp of approval on anything that's not up to the stratospheric stan­dards he's set for himself. For whatev­er reason, Ore didn't feel as though Bittman's album was ready for release. Obviously, Hittman felt that it was. 
Born Brian Bailey, Ilittman is an acronym for Highly Intensive Tongue Talents Making All Nervous. And the 
quality of this 
record will defi­nitely put other rappers on edge. 
"1-Iittmanic Verses" is hotter than Eva Longoria all the way through, but some high­lights include "My Last Dayz," "When It Comes To" and "Let S*** Go." This disc could defi­nitely be spun at a party and get a great response. 


There are 14 tracks-all music and no skits, which is refreshing. The pro­duction team, which includes Ore and Mailman (who both also rap on the album), did a fantastic job putting together rich and catchy backgrounds that support 1-Iitt's flow, which is better than ever. With a highly syncopated interpretation of the beat, Knoc-Turn'al stands out on the guest list. 
So why did listeners have to wait so long for 1-Iittman's record, only to have it come out without the Aftermath seal? Take Eminem and 50 Cent for comparison. Eminem had two verses on "2001" and 50 Cent makes no appearance at all. Yet since that album dropped in 1999, these guys have both had multiple Aftermath releases. Why then does Rittman, who rapped an amazing 12 verses on Ore's last album, get no love? Su.re, there might be a couple of tweaks needed here and there (llitt sounds a little hollow on "Get Myne"), but how could Ore leave this one to collect dust after the work 1-Iittman did on "2001 ?" 
Something is a little fishy on the west eoast. Fans will just have to watch and see what happens (will Hitt be involved in the second Up in Smoke Tour?) For now, they can at least enjoy these 14 hard-Hitting tracks. 
It might be a little difficult to find "Hittmanic Verses" in stores because of its independent release, but it can be downloaded from iTunes for just $9.99. This album is definitely worth the money. 
Contact Chris Kepner at ckepner@nd.edu 
Hittmanic Verses Hittman 
Sick Bay Records 


····~~ 


Recommended tracks: 'My Last Dayz/'When It Comes To/ 'Let 5*** Go'and 'Get Myne' 
Band's appeal expands outside Chicago rock scene 
By MICHELE JEFFERS 
Scene Critic 
More than just an adage of encourag­ing soccer parents, sometimes it really doesn't matter who wins -it just mat­ters how hard you play. 
Last summer, CBS launched Roekstar, a hit reality show in which several per­formers competed to become the lead singer of the rock band INXS. As the runner-up, Marty Casey may not have been ehosen to revive the largely for­gotten band's career, but he hopes to use his 15 minutes of fame to catapult the band he has been with for more than 15 years. 
The Lovehammers have long been a staple of the Chicago rock scene, win­ning over throngs of loyal fans who refer to themselves as "Hammerheads." 


Having met in junior high, Marty Casey (vocals). Bob Kourelis (drums), Billy Sawilchik (guitar) and Dino Kourelis (bass) have remained passionately ded­icated to their band despite being unable to land a recording contract. 
This self-titled album is the band's first release on a record label, but it features an assortment of tracks from previously self-released albums. Although the album laeks a focused whole, it provides a diverse pieture of where the band has been and where it hopes to be. 
The album opens with "Casualty," pounding out a rousing refusal to answer to failure. 
Although there are exceptions, most of the subsequent songs tend to sound the same. But The Lovehammers fend off boredom by tirelessly knocking out their songs with full force. Casey's Photo courtesy of lovehammers.com 
Marty Casey & Lovehanuners 
Marty Casey & 
Lovehammers 


Recommended tracks: 'Trees,"Casualty,"Rain on the Brain,"Call of Distress,"The Tunnel' and 'Clouds' 
forceful modu­Marty Casey, middle left, founded his band, Marty Casey & Lovehammers, when 
lations create he was only 14 years old. Their fan base is located primarily in Chicago. an emotional stronghold of poses lyrics detailing dreams of an to differentiate the band from all the otherwise unre­innocent romance -"It will be you and Nickelbacks and the Puddles of Mud markable mel Up in the trees/ And the forest will already on the radio. songs. give us the answers" -with an infec­Casey's long run on Rockstar, as well 
The album's tious melody. as the local suecess of the band, is first single, Things slow down a bit with "Rain on largely due to the Lovehammers' ability "Trees," had the Brain," a song which earned Casey to put on a great live show -some­been performed a spot as a finalist in the John Lennon thing that unfortunately does not trans­by Casey on Songwriting Contest. Other standout late to the new album. "Rockstar," and tracks inelude "The Tunnel," which Marty Casey & the Lovehammers are it is now one of sounds like a grunged-out Cure song, currently opening for INXS on the sold­the top songs "Call of Distress" and the satisfying out "Switehed On" tour. downloaded on final ballad "Clouds." the Internet. Marty Casey may have won over Contact Michele Jeffers at The song juxta-audiences on CBS, but this album fails mjeffers@nd.edu 





NSIDER 
O
THE 

Thursday, February 2, 2006 BSERVER Signing Day 2006 
Signed and delivered 
Weis inks 27 recruits for his first full recruiting class 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
With two offensive linemen going to the NFI. this year and thriHl graduating the year after, Notre Dame coaeh Charlie Weis knew he needed not only depth, but talent-and he got both. 
Weis got a lot of things on sign­ing day as the commitments poured in -27 to be exact, including six otl'ensive linemen, live defensive backs, four wide receivers, three running backs, three defensive linemen, two quarterbacks, two JimJbackers, one tight end and one kicker. 
Notre Dame addressed its needs with this dass, getting not only depth, but talent at every position. 
Offensive line 
With the graduation of Mark LeVoir and Dan Stevenson, the Irish are left with Hyan Harris, Bob Morton, Dan Santucci and John Sullivan as returning starters. On the bench are fresh­men Paul Duncan and Michael Turkovich, who saw limited action doubt who the Irish quarterback in 2006 will be, the position is wide open after lleisman Trophy eandidate Brady Quinn graduates next year. 
This year's backup, David Wolke, has not seen significant action in his two seasons, and freshman Evan Sharpley, who was a three-star recruit out of high school, did not play this year. Behind them is walk-on Dan Gorski, who did not see action in his first year at Notre Dame. 
Weis said one of his goals was to get two quarterbacks, and he got two very good signal-callers in Demetrius Jones and Zach Frazer. Jones poses a dual threat, while Frazer is more of a drop back passer, but Weis said they will both have ample opportunity to compete for the position after Quinn leaves. 
Running back 
Although-_1,{>00-yard rusher Darius Walker has two more years in an Irish uniform and Travis Thomas has one, a pair of commits could push for playing time as early as next year. 
James Aldridge, from nearby 
Crown Point, Ind., 
enrolled in 

in thllir first season, January and will
"[Aldridge/ can do

leaving the Irish be able to partici­thin at this position. it all." pate in spring But with the practice, giving addition of 6-foot-7 him a head start. 
Charlie Wels 

Sam Young, who "He can do it
Irish head coach 

chose Notre Dame all," Weis said. over USC, Dan "We're excited to Wrmger, a true center who played have him here at the semester so with Young in high school, Notre we can get him involved in the Dame improves il'ielf dramatical­spring." ly. Additionally, the Irish picked Joining Aldridge is Munir up highly-rated Eric Olsen and Prince, the Gatorade Player of the Chris Stewart. who enrolled in Year in Missouri, who Weis .January, and should b1inefit from described as a "dynamic" player. some weight training, as he cur­Prince and Aldridge give the Irish rently weighs about 340 pounds. power and speed behind Walker Olsen did not allow a sack during and Thomas. his high school career. Matt Fullback Carufel, who hails from the same With the departure of Rashon high sehool as llarris and Irish Powers-Neal mid-year due to dis­tight end Marcus Freeman, was ciplinary issues, Asaph Schwapp thl\ Gutorade Player of the Year in saw significant playing time as a Minnnsota. true freshman. But the position 
Finally, Notre Dame signed was thin with the only backup Bartley Wnbb, a 6-f(IOt-7 lineman being Ashley McConnell. With the who Weis was high on as well. signing of Indiana's Gatorade 
"Of all the !,'llys I've seen, this is Player of the Year, Luke Schmidt, one of the most polished pass the Irish add a big body that also bloeking taeklt\s I've seen coming gives them depth. out of high school in my short Wide receiver time baek into the eollege ranks," Rhema McKnight should return Weis said Wednnsday. for a fifth year, barring unfore­Quarterback seen circumstances, and Jeff 
Despite the fact there is no Samardzija will come back after an All-American season to finish his eligibility, giving the Irish two extremely talented receivers at the top. 
Joining them arc D.J. Hord and David Grimes, two true freshmen who saw limited playing time this year. 
And with the additions of Barry Gallup, George West, Robby Parris and Richard Jackson, Weis gives his team playmaking ability and game-breaking speed. West is already enrolled at Notre Dame, and is widely considered one of the best kick returners in the country, while Parris and Jackson are bigger receivers. Tight end 
Anthony Fasano decided not to eo me back for his fifth year of eli­gibility, leaving the Irish with John Carlson as their No. 1 tight end. Behind him is Marcus Freeman, who could come back Jashaad Gaines and Sergiofor a fifth year, and true fresh­Brown. Both are big, athletic 
man Joey Hiben, who didn't see safeties who played both ways in much action this season. high school. The Irish picked up one tight Unebacker end, but he is a good one. Konrad With the graduation of captain 
Reuland, who the Irish took out of Brandon Hoyte and Corey Mays, Southern California -USC terri­the Irish have two spots to fill tory -is a big, physical athlete here. Maurice Crum returns at 
who could compete right away, the Apache position. Also return­depending on Freeman's status. ing for the Irish are true fresh­Cornerback men Steve Quinn and Scott Smith, 
One of Notre Dame's biggest who saw action on special teams problems last year was its sec­last year, Anthony Vergnalia, who 
Ferrine returns as the nickelback 
ondary, as the Irish allowed 265 yards of pass ofl'ense per game, including 342 in the Fiesta Bowl. But the Irish  "Anyone who wants to know about [McNeil's] cover ability, just go watch the highlights of the All-American game  has three years of eligibility remaining, but hasn't seen sig­nificant playing time this year, Joe Brockington, who saw limited  
don't lose any cornerbacks, as Ambrose Wooden and  where he's supposed to be playing against the best and is shutting  action in 4-4 packages and rising senior Mitchell  
Mike Richardson both return, assuming Richardson returns for his fifth year. Leo  everybody down. " Charlie Wels Irish head coach  Thomas, who could compete for playing time. Weis landed two outstanding prospects in  

Morrice Richardson and Toryan and Terrail Lambert and LaBrose 
Smith. Richardson was both a Hedgemon are the backups. defensive end and linebacker in But coming in are two big-time high school and has the ability to 
cornerbacks, Raeshon McNeil and get to the quarterback. Darrin Walls. Both were U.S. Meanwhile, Smith should be in Army All-Americans and Weis the mix right away to replaceexpects them to play early. Mays at the Mike linebacker spot. 
"Anyone who wants to know Defensive end about his cover ability, just go With the return of Chris Frome watch the highlights of the All­and Victor Abiamiri, the Irish American game where he's sup­
have two solid starters. And since posed to be playing against the Frome was injured during the best and is shutting everybody USC game on Oct. 15, backupsdown," Weis said of McNeil. Ronald Talley and Justin Brown Walls and McNeil are joined by picked up valuable experience. Leonard Gordon, who can also However, the Irish still pickedplay safety. up two solid players here, in John Safety Ryan and Kallen Wade. RyanAgain, the Irish don't Jose any­
improved his stock at the Notre body at this spot, with both Tom Dame camp over the summer and Zbikowski and Chinedum Nduwke returning. Their back­


ups, Kyle McCarthy and David Bruton, both true freshmen last 
Class of 2010 
year, return as well. Bruton saw action on special teams but 
A spread of all 27 recruits
McCarthy didn't play. Meanwhile, signed to play for Notre DameRay Herring is waiting in the next year, including high school wings after playing on special stats. 
teams this year. Wednesday, the Irish signed 
pages 2-3 
Wade had 13 saeks as a junior. 
"This b'liY reminds me a lot of a young Jason Taylor," Weis said of Wade. "He looks like him, plays like him. Let's hope he produces like him when he gel'> in school." 
Defensive tackle 
Although the Irish only lose Brian Beidatsch at defensive tack­le, they are not incredibly deep. With Derek Landri and Trevor Laws anchoring the middle, Notre Dame is solid, but it drops off after that with trun freshmen Pat Kuntz, who played sparingly, and Dorrell Hand, who didn't see any action. 
Notre Dame signed Paddy Mullen as a taekln, but he could also play tight end. However, with the lack of depth at tackle, Mullnn could find himself playing earlier here than he would <L'> a tight end. 
"We're counting on Paddy to come in here as a defensive tack­le," Weis said. Kicker 
With the graduation of kicker/punter D.J. Fitzpatrick and no real backup at thn kicker posi­tion, Notre Dame badly needed a kicker to go along with backup Carl Gioia. At punter, Geoffrey Price looks to succeed Fitzpatrick, but that is undear as well. 
The Irish signed Ryan Burkhart, a player who Weis said has a Jot of pressure on him com­ing in because the position is so wide open. Burkhart has "pop every time he hit'> tl1e ball," Weis said. 
"We've told Ryan that we're expecting him to come in here IL'> a freshman and eompete for play­ing time form the second he walks in the door," Weis said of Burkhart, who he said ean kick off as well. "I think that's what he's expecting fi·om us." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Two top ~uarterbacks chose ND 
Demetrius Jones and Zach Frazer committed Wednesday to play for head coach Charlie Weis. 
page 4 




CLASS OF 2010 
page 2 The Observer+ RECRUITING Thursday, February 2, 2006 


Matt Carufel 
offensive lineman 6-5, 288 Forest Lake, Minn. 
""We're really, really excit­ed about having a physi­cal player like Matt." 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 

USA Today second-team All-American ... named Gatorade Minnesota player of the year. 

Barry Gallup 
wide receiver 5-11, 175 Wellesley, Mass. 
"I think he fell in love with Notre Dame and we fell in love with him." 
Courtesy Victoria Gallup Charlie We is Irish coach 

Gatorade Massachusetts player of the year ... scored 70 TDs and tallied 14 INTs in high school career. 

Demetrius Jones 
quarterbck 6-3, 190 Chicago, Ill. 
"Has the ability to make something out of nothing.' 
Tim O'Halloran Rivals.com 

Gatorade Illinois player of the year ... named top senior player in Illinois by Chicago Tribune. 

Eric Olsen 
offensive lineman 6-5,298 Staten Island, N.Y. 
"He's a big kid who likes to smack people around a little bit. " 
Mike Frank 

lrisheyes.com Gatorade New York player of the year ... never gave up a sack in three seasons as a starting lineman. 



Richard Jackson 
wide receiver 6-2, 195 Clermont, Fla. 
"What Richard really brings is size and speed." 

Charlie Weis Courtesy East Ridge H.S. Irish coach 
Ranked No. 87 on USA Today list of top 1 00 players ... caught 182 passes for 3,249 yards in high school. 

Paddy Mullen 
defensive tackle 6-5, 262 St. Louis, Mo. 
·~s he gets bigger his bull rush continues to improve." 
Pat Mahoney high school coach 

Played mostly tight end as a senior, catching three TDs ... gamered seven sacks as junior defensive end. 

Munir Prince 
running back 5-9, 164 Florrisant, Mo. 
"He's a dynamic back who can do it all. " 

Charlie Weis Courtesy DeSmet Jesuit H.S. Irish coach 
Gatorade Missouri player of the year ... rushed for 50 TDs and 3,688 yards in high school career. 



CLASS OF 2010 

Thursday, February 2, 2006 

Konrad Reuland 
tight end 
6-6,240 
Mission Viejo, Calif. 
"We're really happy to take one out of Southern California." 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 

USA Today first-team All-American ... led high school team to 39-2 record over past three seasons. 

Luke Schmidt 
running back 
6-4, 230 
Jasper, Ind. 
""He's a powerful and fast back, can play fullback and halfback." Charlie Weis 

Irish coach Gatorade Indiana player of the year ... carried 313 times for 2,239 yards and 32 TDs in senior season. 

Kallen Wade 
defensive end 
6-5, 220 
Cincinnati, Ohio 
"[He] reminds me of a young Jason Taylor." 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 

Recorded 17 sacks in final two high school seasons ... No. 134 in CollegeFootbaiiNews.com national top 150. 

Dan Wenger 
center 
6-4, 285 
Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 'The one thing different about him is Dan is a center." 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 

Member of Florida class 5A first team ... attended same high school as former Irish WR Bobby Brown. 
The Observer+ RECRUITING 

Morrice Richardson 
linebacker 
6-3, 235 
College Park, Ga. 

"He is a very athletic linebacker who also has pass rush ability." 
Charlie Weis 

Irish coach Gatorade Georgia player of the year ... recorded 170 tackles and 15 sacks in final two high school seasons. 
~ .,., ;">·• 


Toryan Smith 
linebacker 
6-1,235 
Rome, Ga. 

"He should be able to get himself in the mix early." 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 

USA Today second-team All-American ... tallied 117 tackles, including 25 for loss, and 1 0 sacks as a senior. 

Darrin Walls 
cornerback 
6-1, 180 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 

"He's a guy who can take over a game." 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 

Listed at No. 29 on Chicago Sun-Times national top 100 ... Named CSTV first-team All-American. 

page 3 


John Ryan 
defensive end 
6-5, 240 
Westlake, Ohio 
"He's got a lot of pass rush ability." 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 

AP second-team all-Ohio selection ... racked up 49 tackles and six sacks in just eight games as a senior. 

Chris Stewart 
offensive lineman 
6-5,360 
Klein, Tx. 

"He's a guy that absolutely engulfs people." 
Mike Frank lrisheyes.com 

USA Today second-team All-American ... No. 33 on Dallas Morning News list of top 100 players in Texas. 

Bartley Webb 
offensive lineman 
6-6, 280 
Springdale, Ark. 

"This guy is a very, very defined pass block tackle." 
Charlie Weis o...o~~~~---___u Irish coach 
Played in U.S. Army All-American Bowl ... led high school to 14-0 record and Arkansas state title. 

Sam Young 
offensive lineman 
6-7, 297 

Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
"He picked us and really put a smile on my face." 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 

Rated top lineman in America by Parade Magazine ... Gatorade Florida player of the year. 
FUN FACfS ABOUT THE CLASS OF 2010 
Weis ~lf~red 57 scholanhips, 27 were accepted Prince went to junior: high in St. Loui• with James Aldridge . . "'4'" 
-
Of thO'37 athletes who made official visits to Notre Dame; 27 5igned
with the Irish Demetrius Jones hails from ),(organ Park High School. the same: sc:twol as fonnet Irish linebacker Corey May$. Jones wd Mays a.ce the ftnt Notte wshaad Gaines' sister, Tulyah is a sopho~re Irish basketball player Dame player to come out of the Chlcago Publi~ League sipee Chris 
~~{,o~~father.. Barry, St., is the director of football operations at Zorich of Chicago Vocational came to Notte Dame in t 988. . .,.' ,~C 
Piddy Mullen and. Munit: Prince pbyed together ·at DeSm.et }eiiWt H.ligh , Konrad Reularul spent tight m.on.ths Ji.Wg witb relative• in_ Germany be-SchOOl in ~ ~ui..s•.RQbby PactiJ ari.d John lly.an. p.....'.' .$U. $Ig-.·-peen tne e,ilflt~ and *th ichool.years. . . 
natiut High S~Cleve~ aJ?d S"amY~til!Dw.... pb}'CB " . . ' ......, •.• ·~·, · ·-~-­together at~~ . ~e~~Higb SchQOl m ... ct L. . ' "0 ~E~ :~!' ~ i::J~.~~~.~-'1!. '~,_i GRAHAM ~HIOb;~Mit(!~hlc 
-

page 4 The Observer+ RECRUITING Thursday, February 2, 2006 
Frazer, Jones bear responsibility for strong group 

Like Weis no-w, Willinghatn once signed blue-chippers 
The two quarterbacks worked to keep their classmates committed 
By MIKE GILLOON 
Spans Ediror 
It's only been about 24 hours since Irish coach Charlie Weis secured the sig­natures of the recruiting class of 2010. But the quality of this group of Notre Da.me commitments has likely been assured since last August. 
That was when quarterback Demetrius Jones delivered a verbal commitment to Weis, giving the Irish another blue-chip signal-• caller in addi­tion to 

wasn't going to
"It's like having 
Pennsylvania Florida. Zach was product Zach Brady Quinn in on me about Frazer. But two people. " coming [to Notre Notre Dame Dame] too." received more In all, 17 Irish
Richard Jackson 
than a couple recruits verbally highly-rated Irish receiver recruit committed after quarterbacks -Jones-who The it got a pair of Observer could athletes that "went out of not reach for comment their way" to encourage other Wednesday -gave his word high school standouts to come on Aug. 15. Frazer had been to South Bend and make this committed since April 14. a consensus top-five recruit­While both have done their ing class. part to help the Irish load up 
"These were guys that we on talent, only one of them identified very early in the can hold the starting quarter­[recruiting] process," Weis back role for Notre Dame in said at a press conference the future. Wednesday announcing the Frazer is the purer passer Irish crop. "We feel that of the two, as he set the we've got two great leaders in [Jones and Frazer]. Both [of them] went out of their way on their own to encourage other guys to be a part of this class like true leaders would do." 
One member of the group of 27 who can attest to his future coach's statement is Darrin Walls. 
A four-star cornerback out of Pittsburgh, Walls said Jones and Frazer were both concerned that Walls might be leaning toward committing to Florida before he verballed to Notre Dame last October. 
"I talked to [Jones] through­out the process," Walls said in an interview with The Observer Wednesday. "He just wanted to make sure I 
Pennsylvania state record with 3,674 yards passing as a junior at Mechanicsburgh High School. 
He then struggled in 2005, going 140-for-253 with 1,839 yards, 9 touchdowns and 9 interceptions. 
Meanwhile Jones led his Morgan Park High School squad to an Illinois state title this past season. 
He tallied 2,000 yards and 25 touchdowns passing along with 1,000 yards and 16 touchdowns on the ground during his senior year at the Chicago Public League high school. 
While Frazer's stock dropped a bit after his subpar senior season -most of his national accolades came between his junior and senior years -there is no question in the Notre Dame camp about the ability of both quar­terbacks. 
"Demetrius, he can throw and he can run," Irish wide receiver recruit Richard Jackson said Wednesday. "Zach is more of a pure pass­er. It's like having Brady Quinn in two people." 
"They're both really good people as well as players," Walls said. 
"I expect both of them to come in and compete. It'll be an interesting battle but I think both can lead the team to a national title." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
It's official-Charlie Weis is no longer the head football coach on this campus. 
Instead, after inking a much­hyped recruiting class Wednesday, students and alumni will now refer to him as King Charlie. Well, maybe that's a bit of an exaggeration. But looking at this week's Mike Gllloon 

ratings from 
nationwide Sports Editor recruiting services, there is a lot of truth to claims that Weis has given the Dome another regilding. 
He hauled in the nation's No. 1 tight end, No. 1 ofl'ensive line­man, one of the top running backs, a pair of smothering cor­nerbacks and a quarterback tandem every coach would love to have on his sideline. 
ESPN has it as the fifth-best class in America, Scout.com says it's No. 3 -and everyone thinks it's one of the better Irish crops since the Tyrone Willingham era. 
Wait. 
Tyrone Willingham? Mr. 21­and-15? The fired coach who left South Bend after only three

-
seasons amidst controversy and confusion? The current head coach of the 2-9 Washington Huskies? 
That's right. Weis' class­both in makeup and circum­stance -is incredibly similar to Willingham's class of 2007. 
Both came after the coaches' first full seasons in South Bend -seasons in which they turned losing teams into successes ­and both sold players on the promise that everything would stay sunny in the shadow of the Dome. 
Willingham's group of 21 players -highlighted by quar­terback Brady Quinn, defensive back Tom Zbikowski and defen­sive end Victor Abiamiri -was ranked No. 5 in the country by Scout.com on Signing Day 2003. 
One theory commonly tossed around after Willingham's fir­ing was that he couldn't recruit. But wide receiver Jeff Samardzija, center John Sullivan, defensive tackle Trevor Laws, tackle Ryan Harris and free safety Chinedum Ndukwe -all mem­bers of Willingham's class of 2007 -turned out pretty well, as anyone who watched the Irish on Saturdays this past autumn could see. 
The point is not that Weis attracted these blue chippers with a flimsy, used-car sales­man's pitch. There's no doubt he's a prepared, meticulous and charismatic recruiter. 
But Notre Dame's BCS run and classit:; near-upset of Pete Carroll's Trojans did more to earn Tom Lemming's top-five rating than any living room­couch sales pitch. 
What Weis has to do now is win and keep winning, in a big­ger and more dominating style than he did this season. There is no room for a loss to Air Force or a massacre at the hands of USC. 
That was Willingham's prob­lem. He lost. Granted, from the way Weis' offense looked this season he has the Irish playing better than Willingham's squad performed in his inaugural campaign. 
But the root of Willingham's recruiting problem was not a lack of enthusiasm or a weak handshake -it was the results on the field. 
When the coach stopped win­ning he started losing credibili­ty with recruits. They no longer saw him as a man who could draw a map to the NFL, but as a mediocre coach with little chance at winning much more than the Navy game. 
Weis is being praised as one of the nation's best recruiters . .. right now. He's been able to sell the point that he is going to turn Notre Dame around, which he appears to be doing so far. But just a few losses next sea­son, especially a blowout defeat against Michigan or Penn State, COIJld make top players like offensive lineman Sam Young -who signed with the Irish yesterday-look elsewhere. 
College football is fragile -it doesn't take much for a coach to go from near-sainthood to selling his house. 
Weis understands this, and after more than a decade spent in the NFL he should know something about job (in)securi­ty. 
Expect Weis to keep on win­ning-the Irish haven't shown many signs of slowing down yet. 
But if they do slip up, like Willingham did in his final two seasons, look for the Irish to keep fighting with a southern California school for recruits. 
No, not USC -it'll more like­ly be the feared Aztecs of San Diego State. 
The opinions in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd. edu 

courtesy I • 
Top, wide receiver Barry Gallup sprints down the sideline. Middle, top-rated tight end Konrad Reuland lunges for a reception. Bottom, linebacker Toryan Smith focuses on the opposition. 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Thursday, February 2, 2006 
page 15 
CD REVIEWS 
Blunt on his way to sensitive songwriting glory 
By KELLY CLANCY 
Sct•nc Critic 
Chances are that Jamns Blunt's musk has b(~nn or will be stuck in music fan's !wads sonwtimn soon. 
"You'rn Beautiful," 11w current pop singln oiT of Blunt's ddHJt American album. "Back to BPdlam," has frn­qunntPd Top 40 radio stations, domi­nating pop rulturP airwavns with its s1nooth lyrii'S and lullaby lwat. Th11 vidno, fnat.uring tlw artist's icy plunge oiT of an Ar'rtir rliiT. has also gained surrPss on music rhann•ds like VIII, whPrl' Blunl was l'naturnd as a "You Oughta Know" artist. Aln~ady a stu:cnss ovPrseas in his homnland of Britain, Blunt sPnms to lw Pnjoying his stay in till' St.atPs as wPII. 
Tlwre an~ f'Pw. if any, who would have prt~did•HI Blunt's sueenss. c;rowing up in a family which Blunt's Web silt~ pwdaims "had not a musical bone in any one of their bodies," the singer/songwritor found himself in the military al'tor studying Aerospace Manufacturing Enginooring and Sociology in collogo. But Blunt kept his guitar noar to him, as he recalls on his honwpagn, singing through t.ho streets of Sorb villages on peacekeeping mis­sions. 
Tlw initial rnaetion to Jamos Blunt is a fear that. tlw listenor has stumbled upon yot anothor John Mayor-esqu11 pnrforrnnr, hoping to soli to tho samo sensitivn f'emalll crowd. llowPvnr, both tlw r 11 e11 n t s tH: e11 s s o f "Yo u ' r n Beautiful" and tho rest of' tlw songs on "Back to Bmllam" stand to provo that Blunt won't wind up a one-hit womler at all. 
Although enrtainly trying to play to tlw same audience as a Coldplay open­ing art would (but not yet attaining the brillianc11 of Chris Martin on piano), Blunt manages to carry musieal wit through tho album that could somnday 
earn him his 

own place among the sensi­Back to Bedlam 
tive-songwriter 
gods. While "You're
James Blunt 

Beautiful" proves to be a perfect pop
Atlantic/Wea 

pleaser for the masses, the rest of the album carries lyrical and musical complexity,
Recommended tracks: 'You're Beautiful,' 'High,' 
which should 
'Wisemen,"Billy' and 'Goodbye My Lover' 
bring Blunt plen­ty of respect. 
Doubters proven wrong with success of new album 
By RYAN MILLIGAN Scene Criric 
Wlwn word got around in 2000 that Hag(~ Against tlw Machine frontman Zaek de Ia Hocha would he replaeed by ex-Soundgardm1 vocalist Chris Conwll, it seemed as though nvery ran of alter­nativn rock had an opinion on whethnr or not thn sueeess would continue. 
1-:ven af'ter the band renamed itself Audioslavn and reeorded a self-titled debut album in 2002 that sold surpris­ingly wnll, skeptics still saw the four­some as nothing more than another supm-group -a short-term side proj­ect. Almost thrnn years later, doubters wnre proven wrong with the release of "Out or Exile." 
Tlwre is no weak point to be found anyw hn n~ within the I 2 traeks. Conwll's voeals arn solid throughout, and guitarist Tom Mornllo continues to amaze listnnnrs with his ear-splitting riffs. Thn rhythmic duo of bassist Tim The track "Billy," with its catchy beat, seems destined for the same sueeess that "You're Beautiful" has garnered, while "Wisemen" also seems revved to back up Blunt's success and keep his name on the charts for months to come. 
"Back to Bedlam" manages to cover a myriad of feelings within the compila­tion, from the bittersweet despair fea­tured within "You're Beautiful" to the high of a successful relationship fea­tured in the aptly-titled "High." While "High" features some simplistic lyrics such as "Will you be my shoulder when I'm grey and older? I Promise me tomorrow starts with you," Blunt does manage to rollnct more than just direet adoration in quite a few songs. These songs include "Wisenwn," a symbol­laden song featuring lines like "And they're really sorry now for what they've done I they were three Wise Men just trying to have some fun." 
Already managing to appeal to large audiences, the sappy teenage girVeol­lege student in everyone should enjoy the entirety of "Back to Bedlam." Luring the listener in with the success of "You're Beautiful," Blunt manages to also back up his talent and provide other soon-to-be chart-topping tracks. 
Contact Kelly Clancy at kdancy1 @nd.edu 
Cornnwrford and drummer Brad Wilk snrve as more than Morello's back­drop, as they make keeping up with the mor(~ fast-paced tracks look extremely easy. It's dear that all three ex-Hage members have been given the freedom to push tlwir musical limits now that they are alongside singer Cornell instead of rapper de Ia Hoeha. 
"Be Yourselr' was the first single on this dise to hit radio stations, which initially seemed to be an unusual ehoice. It is a relatively laid-back song that simply advises listeners to, as the title suggests, be themsnlves. While it doesn't have nearly as much power as the majority of the tracks on the album, it aceomplishes its goal in proving the group's llexibility. 
"Doesn't Hemind Me" was the sec­ond track from "Out of Exile" to receive equal radio attention. The lyrics are blatantly random, with lines sueh as, "I like gospel music and eanned applause/because it doesn't remind me of anything." However, one 
can't help but smile once they realize what a carefree attitude the song carries with it. 
The rest of the album delivnrs the electricity that listeners have come to expect from Audioslave. Just as "Cochise" was a great opener in the first album, ·"Your Time !las Come" greets the 

ears with an unmatehed intensity that remains eonsistent from beginning to on d. 
· "The Worm" can more or less serve as an anthem for those people who made poor decisions in high school, while "Man or Animal" attempts to show that some things will never go away, no matter how much people want thnm to. 
What separates "Out of Exile" from the other recent rock albums is its ability to remain consistent while never beeoming stale. For example, almost every song features a guitar solo a Ia Tom Morello. After all that he has accomplished as a guitarist, it is easy to see why it should be that way. Granted, some or noises he managns to get out of his guitar somewhat resmn­ble nails on a chalkboard, but tho vari­nty makes up for it, and tlwn some. 
It does not matter if tho listener was a fan of Soundgarden or Hagn Against the Machine. It does not matter if they purchased Audioslavn's l'irst album. Listening to "Out of Exiln," they will start to hope the band beeom(~S a fix­ture in today's rock world. 
Contact Ryan Milligan at rmilliga@nd.edu 

.----------------------­
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, February 2, 2006 
NBA 

T-Mac drops 22 points. on Bucks in 86-84 win 
Late comeback by the Celtics, spearheaded by Pierce's 33 second-half points, not enough as Boston falls to Suns 
"A 20-point lead to us is like a 10-point lead for everybody else," coach Mike D'Antoni said of his Pacific Division leaders. "The game is just not over." 
Phoenix is the NBA's highest scoring team, but only five teams have allowed more points per game than the Suns, who couldn't stop Pierce in the sec­ond half. 
He finished with 40 points after deciding to be more assertive, but the closest Boston came in the second half was 80­78 with 9:06 left in the game. 
"I wasn't as aggressive as I should have been" while Phoenix built a 59-38 halftime lead, Pierce said. "There's no moral victories. We gave our­selves chances, but you can't let yourself get down that much and expect to win." 
Still, the Suns were impressed. 
"He's one of those players in the class of LeBron James, Kobe !Bryant], Steve Nash," D'Antoni said. "You're not going to stop him. You can't do it." 
The Suns' scoring was more balanced with Shawn Marion's 21 points leading seven players in double figures. 
Raja Bell scored 18 points and Nash had 13 points with eight assists. Marion led all rebound­ers with 12. Bell also sank a key 3-pointer that made it 96-89 with 3:56 to go, then finished the scoring with a 23-foot jumper with 21 seconds remaining. 
"It has been a long road trip," Suns center Kurt Thomas said. "We had a nice start in the first half but we got in a funk in the third quarter." 
Phoenix, coming off a 123-99 win at Philadelphia on Tuesday night, finished 4-2 on the trip. The Celtics lost their third con­secutive game and are 1-3 since obtaining Wally Szczerbiak from Minnesota. 
Al Jefferson had 17 points for Boston and Delonte West scored 
12. Szczerbiak was just 1-for-9 from the field and had 10 points and six rebounds. 
Clippers 106, Magic 94 
Elton Brand is playing the best basketball of his career and his Los Angeles Clippers teammates are happy to follow his lead. 
Brand scored 35 points Wednesday night, leading Los Angeles over the slumping Orlando Magic. 
The seven-year veteran hit 12 of 22 shots from the field, most of them fallaway jumpers. When he did take the ball to the basket, the Magic had to foul to stop him. He hit 11 of 12 free throw attempts. 

"Elton has always played con­sistently, but now we're winning basketball games and people are finally taking notice," guard Sam Cassell said. 
His success helped free up Cassell and Cuttino Mobley, who had 26 and 16 points, respec­tively. Los Angeles shot 53 per­cent from the field. 
"Elton hasn't just been good lately, he's been good the whole season," Mobley said. "He's the reason I came here. He makes the job easy." 
Brand is averaging 27.1 points and shooting 54 percent (61-of-113) over the last six games, during which the Clippers are 5-1. He won Western Conference player of the week honors for the third time last week and has Los Angeles in good position for its first playoff appearance since 1997. 
"Elton is having an MVP-type season," said Magic guard Keyon Dooling, who was a teammate of Brand's earlier in his career. "He's their guy. They went to him and he delivered." 

The Magic are having a hard time finding anyone who can deliver during their three-game losing streak, especially during prolonged stretches of the game when their offense falls out of rhythm. 
Steve Francis led Orlando with 21 points, but was only 5­of-13 from the field. Dwight Howard had 15 points and 15 rebounds, but he missed a dunk on a three-on-none fast break in the second quarter. 
The missed dunk bounded out to nearly halfcourt and the Clippers converted it into an easy dunk at their end. It was one of three open dunks the Magic missed on the night. 
''That whole play upset me," Magic coach Brian Hill said. "When you're three-on-none and don't score, that's inexcus­able." 
Added Francis: "It looked like we didn't have a lot of energy out there. We've got to find a way to get some drives where we play good consistently and not just for four or five games and then tanking it for three or four games." 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON -Tracy McGrady scored 22 points, Yao Ming added 21 and the Houston Rockets overcame an early 13­point deficit to beat the Milwaukee Bucks 86-84 on Wednesday night. 
Milwaukee went on a late 11­2 run to pull to 86-84 when T.J Ford hit one of two free throws with 37 seconds to play. But Bobby Simmons missed a 25­footer with 3 seconds left and Houston got the rebound. 
Yao, in his second game back after missing 21 games due to surgery on his left big toe, also had 13 rebounds for his 11th double-double of the season. 
Simmons hit a career-high five 3-pointers and led the Bucks with 26 points, matching his season high. 
The Bucks were playing with­out leading scorer Michael Redd, who missed the game with back spasms. Redd, aver­aging 25.3 points per game, is day to day. 
Houston opened the game by scoring the first six points, but Milwaukee then went on a 19-2 run. The Bucks finished the first quarter leading 27-15 as Jiri Welsch, who replaced Redd in the starting lineup, and Simmons each had seven points. 
Led by rookie Chuck Hayes' eight points and seven from Yao, the Rockets went on an 18­2 run to start the second quar­ter for a 33-29 lead with 6:42 to play in the half. 
After scoring only two points in the first quarter, Yao finished the half with 13, including an improbable no-look layup he flipped up under the basket as he fell backward to the floor. 
McGrady, the NBA's fifth-lead­ing scorer at 26.9 points per game, was 1-for-6 from the field and had only six points in the first half as Houston took a 49­41 lead. 
McGrady warmed up in the third quarter, shooting 4-of-7 and scoring 13 points as Houston led by as many as 13. The Rockets settled for a 77-66 lead after three. 
Suns 102, Celtics 94 
The Phoenix Suns ended their road trip with their fourth victo­ry in five games and another reminder that big leads can fade quickly. 
They led by 21 points at half­time, then weathered a 33-point second half by Paul Pi~rce for a win over the Boston Celtics on Wednesday night. 
Just three days earlier, the Suns lost to Cleveland by seven after leading by nine at inter­mission. 
AP 


Paul Pierce drives to the hoop past the Suns' Shawn Marion in the first quarter of Wednesday night's game. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. · 

CLASSIFIEDS 

Stop overpaying for rent. Visit 1706 Logan, 6 bdrms,.$200/person, For rent: Two story house com-COLLEGE PARK CONDOM INI-BlueGoldrentals.com B&G Homes. pletely remodeled 2003. Ready for UMSWANTED 57 4-250-7653. immediate occupancy or next AVAILABLE FOR 06-07 SCHOOL PERSONAL 
New 3-4 Bedroom Homes, 3 full school year. Off street parking YEAR. Unix Server specialist needed to Baths, 2+ Car Garage, Fireplace, 123 ND Ave. 3-bdrm,1.5 bath. includes motion sensor light for TWO BEDROOM,TWO BATHS. Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5 attach webcam to a server and Cathedral Ceilings, 1Ox20 Deck, Call security. Four individually locked HURRY. Days from $299! Includes Meals, then link to a website for a local Close to Campus. $1700 monthly. 574-229-0149. bedrooms, central station monitored MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, da)!Care. Available Aug. 06/07, security system, six blocks from 235·7234 Acapulco, Jamaica from $499! 233-1605. Call574-232-4527, 2-6 BDRMS. WALK2ND. Notre Dame, bus stop in front of FOR MORE DETAIL. Campus Reps Needed! 
269-683-5038. FURN. house, surrounded by other student PromoCode:31 www.springbreak­329-0308 housing, Laundromat next door, COLLEGE PARK CONDOM INI-travel.com 1-800-678-6386. Blue & Gold Homes is offering a basement available for storage of UMS
FoR SALE 

free pool table to all new tenants. 1-3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. bicycles,luggage,trunks, etc., new Spring Break 2006 with Student 
7 bdrms, 24-hr maintenance & open Web site:mmmrentals.com furnace and central air, new kitchen AVAILABLE FOR 06-07 SCHOOL Travel Services to Jamaica, WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 leases. including new stove and refrigera-YEAR. TWO BEDROOM,TWO Mexico, Bahamas and Florida. Do BEDROOM HOMES MMM-Visit BlueGoldrentals.com Contact:Gary tor, large living room for TV or BATHS. not get left behind! Book now, limit-RENTALS.COM or call 574-993-2208 entertaining, free trash removal. HURRY. ed space available. Call for group 
or 235-7234 discounts. Info/Reservations 800­532-1408 574-250-7653. grooms @ourwebspot.net Call 289-4071. FOR MORE DETAIL. 648-4849 www.ststravel.com 





OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, February 2, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
NBA Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
tParn  f('!'OI'd  pet.  Gl3  
New Jersey  23-20  .535  
Philadelphia  23-22  .511  1  
Boston  18-27  .400  6  
Toronto  15-30  .325  9  
New York  14-30  .326  9.5  

Eastern Conference, Central Division 
tPam rocord pet. (~B Detroit 37-6 .860 Cleveland 26-17 .605 11 Milwaukee 23-21 .523 14.5 Milwaukee 21-22 
.488 16 Chicago 20-24 .455 17.5 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team l'tlCOrd p<~t. GB 
Miami 28-18 .609 

Washington 21-22 .488 5.5 
Orlando 18-24 .429 8 
Atlanta 12-31 .279 14.5 
Charlotte 11-35 .239 17 
Western Conference, Northwest Division l<~am record pet. GB Denver 25-22 .532 
Minnesota 21-22 .488 2 
Utah 21-24 .467 3 
Seattle 18-26 .409 5.5 
Portland 16-27 .372 7 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
tPam record pet. GB 
Phoenix 29-16 .644 

LA Clippers 25-17 .595 2.5 
LA Lakers 24-20 .545 4.5 
Golden Slate 20-23 .465 8 
Sacramento 19-26 .422 10 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
teum record pet. GB San Antonio 35-10 .778 Dallas 35-10 .778 Memphis 26·18 .591 8.5 New Orleans 22·22 .500 12.5 Houston 15·29 .341 19.5 
Men's College Basketball Big East Conference 
team conf. overall pet. 

West Virginia 7·0 16·4 1.000 
Connecticut 7·1 19·1 .875 
Villanova 7·1 16·2 .875 
Pittsburgh 6·2 17·2 .750 
Georgetown 6·2 15-4 .750 
Marquette 5-3 15-6 .625 
Cincinnati 4-4 15-7 .500 
Seton Hall 3·3 .500
12-6 Sryacuse 3-4 15·6 .429 Rutgers 3-4 13·7 .429 St. John's 3-4 10·8 .429 Providence 2-5 9·9 .286 louisville 2-6 14·7 .250 NOTRE DAME 1-7 10-9 .125 DePaul 1-7 8·11 .125 South Florida 0-7 6·14 .000 
around the dial 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL North Carolina at Maryland 7 p.m., ESPN George Washington at Xavier 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA BASKETBALL Cleveland at Miami 8 p.m., TNT San Antonio at Golden State 10:30 p.m., TNT 
NFL 


Associated Press 

SEATTLE -As if the Terrible Towel-twirling faithful of the Pittsburgh Steelers weren't enough, now Seattle Seahawks fans have to ward off another set of rabid football parti­sans: the Aggies of Texas A&M. 
Ever since the university launched a trademark dis­pute this week over who is allowed to refer to their fans as the "12th Man," David Israel has attracted plenty of' abuse. 
lsranl is prnsident of the Seahawks' off'ieial fan club. Aggies alumni have sent him "rude e-mails" demanding he remove the free "12th Man" computer wallpaper from the club's Web site, the same way the school wants to halt Seattle from using the "12th Man" trademarked phrase. 
"Who the hell do they think they are?" R.C. Merz said while making sand­wiches at a luneh counter in Pike Place Market. "They didn't invent foot­ball." 
Although they don't claim rights to the actual number "12," the Aggies do hold federal trademark 
IN BRIEF 

Swann likely to win Penn. 
GOP nomination 
MONIWEVII.I.E, Pa. -Former Pittsburgh Stenlnrs star Lynn Swann appears to have loekcd up enough support to win the Hepubliean Party nomination for Pennsylvania govornor. 
In the last regional GOP meeting bef'orn state Hepublieans ment to endorse a eandidatn, the NPL Hall of Farner on Tuesday pieked up 33 unof­ficial commitments from party repre­sentatives. If' thny all follow through, he will have just over the 180 votes needed to win the party's off'icial endorsmnent on Fnb. 11. 
Swann, 53, is seeking to beeome Pennsylvania's 11rst black governor. Though he has revealed little about his political philosophy, he has said the Democratic Party has "taken the Al'rkan-Ameriean vote for granted." 
Supporters say his high pro!ilc and charisma make him the best candi­date to take on Democratic Gov. Ed Rendell, who is expected to seek a second term. 
rights to the phrase "12th Man." A judge will take up the matter Thursday in court in Brazos County, Texas. 
On Monday, a restraining order was issued calling on Seattle to halt any usage of "12th Man," or "12th Mania." A&M's chief marketing officer Steve Moore said he didn't want to ruin Seattle's fun, he just wanted to proteet tho university's trademarks. 
Seahawks officials have declinod to eomment on the matter. 
The origins of the term arnn't Hxactly clear, but the traditions in Seattle and at the Aggics' eampus in College Station date baek decades. 
In 1984, the Seahawks retired the number 12 to honor the fans who made the old Kingdome line of the noisiest stadiums in football. Today it hangs alongside Hall of Fame receiver Steve Largent's No. 80. 

During the Seahawks' run through thn playofl's, a hugn f'lag with the fans' No. 12 has flown from the top of the Spaee Needln. A flag with the same symbol grnetml thn Seahawks at their DPtroit-area hotPI for the Super Bowl. 
Swann's leading opponnnt for the GOP nomination, formor Lt. Gov. Bill Scranton, 58, has sharply criticized Swann's qualilkations and promised to stay in the race through the May 16 primary with or without the p~tr1J.'s backing.Hall of Fame status remains 
in limbo 
SOUTII BEND, ln. -The eity and the College Football Hall of Fame have again failed to agree on a live­year eontraet aimed at ke1~ping the hall in the city. 
The two sides originally hoped to have an agreement by the end of December. Then they hoped to have the con tract signed by the end of January. Now they hope the eontraet is ready by February's end, said Mikki Dobski, city director of com­munications and special projects. 
Dobski said the city and llall still are having good discussions about their partnership and are working on the details. 
"They're just line-tuning the draft," Dobski said Tuesday. "It's just good due diligence, essentially." 

South Bend Councilman Derek Dieter said council nwmlwrs have not heard news about tlw contract and it's a "bad sign" that tlw rww agrnmnent is takin_g so long.Local fast food chain spon­
sers Kentucky Derby 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Eaeh spring, the Kentucky Dnrby eonjurns images of powerful thoroughbreds, mint julnps and -f'ast food'? 
Yurn Brands lne. -the parent company of' KFC, Taeo Bell and Pizza llut-became the first nanwd spon­sor of the Derby at Churehill Downs on Wednesday, striking a live ynar­dnal w;th the Tripln Crown nu:e. The deal bngins with this year's raee on May(>. 
Yum will display its logo beneath the famed twin spires at Churchill Downs, on a sign above the starting gate, on billboards around the traek and even on the jackets of pony rid­ers who escort horses. 

Thursday, February 2, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Referees work hard to be unseen in big games 
Bill Leavy to head officiating crew that will work Super Bowl 
Associated Press 
DETBOIT -They're the guys in black and white. No names needed. 
Unless they make a bad call. 
Thnn, evnryonn linds out who these NFL oiTieials are. Critidzed and vililind, their eyn­sight and sanity are eallnd into question. And a lot of them arc making names for themselves lately. 
In a postseason filled with questionable calls, the spotlight will be harsher than ever for referee Bill Leavy and his ollici­ating crew when Pittsburgh plays Seattle on Super Bowl Sunday. 
"What we want to do is to pick up the paper Monday and read about the game, not the officiating," said Mike Pereira, who oversees NFL refs. "We all want to be anonymous." 
That can be tough sometimes. With more than 130 million people watching the Super Bowl in 234 countries around the world, a wrong move can lead to outrage. 
"There's no such thing as per­fection. Mistakes happen," Jerry Markbreit, the only per­son to be the head referee in four Super Bowls, said Wednesday. "Officials are so hard on themselves. When they make a mistake, nobody feels worse than they do." 
Pete Morelli and his seven-
MCNAIR SCHOLARS SUMMER PROGRAM AT NOTRE DAME 
ANNOUNCES THE 2005 -2006 RECRUITMENT MEETINGS WITH PROF. DON POPE-DAVIS 
AND Ms. MARY NICHOLS (1-7514) 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2006 
7:00 -8:00 PM 
IN ROOM 116 DEBARTOLO 
FORALL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS WHOARE EITHER: 
• First Generation College Students from low income families 
OR 

• African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans 
(Visit the program at http://www.nd.edu/--mcnair/) 
man crew found out firsthand while working the Indianapolis­Pittsburgh playoff game last month. 
Morelli overturned an inter­ception by Stcelers safety Troy Polamalu on vidno review late 
in the game, and it nearly cost them. Pittsburgh held on to win 21­18 -linebacker Joey Porter later said thn officials tried to cheat them out of a vie­tory, and the NFL said Morelli made a mistake. 
A few days later, a rock was thrown through the front window at Morelli's home in Stockton, Calif. 
Police said it was unclear whether the vandalism was related to his school job or his role as a referee. 
In Denver's 27-13 win over New England on Jan. 16, the Broncos' first touchdown was set up by a 39-yard pass inter­ference call on Asante Samuel in the end zone. Replays showed contact by both players and Patriots coach Bill Belichick was irate. 
"I don't really complain about the refs too much," Seattle cor­nerback Andre Dyson said. 
"We're all human. They don't get to see instant replay on every play. The biggest thing is not to make a cru­cial call to change the outcome of the game." 
Super Bowl offi­cials are picked based· on their regular-season performance. They must have worked five full seasons in the NFL, and cannot work consecutive Super Bowls. 
Most officials 
wait about 10 years before get­ting called up to the big game. Many never make it there. 
Retired official Bob McElwee, 


DE BARTOl 
PERFORMING ARTS C 
the lwad rnferee for lhren Super Bowls, rncallnd being on the road in Maryland when hn got the news that he got his lirst assignment. 
"I must have jumpnd out of the phone booth," Md\lwee said 
"What we want to do is to pick up the paper Monday and read about the game, not the officiating. We all want to be 
anonymous. 
Mike Pereira NFL referees' overseer 
this week while on vacation in Hawaii. "My dad was sitting in the car looking at me, he saw me holding my fist in the air." 
Like the players, officials can gnt nervous. But that can· also make them better, McElwee said. 
"The pressure raises you a level," he said. "Sure you know what it is. But 

doggone it, I always felt if I was properly prepared and I was ready, I was going to be OK. The nature of this business is you're not always going to be right. 
"But do you see a quarterback who is right all the time? or course not. If you're properly prepared, you'll do a good job. If not get out of the business." 
Markbreit said he was "scared to death" before his first one in 1983. lie wept on the sideline before his last one, realizing that would be his final 
"There's no such thing as perfection. Mistakes happen. Officials are so hard on themselves. When they make a mistake, nobody feels worse than they do." 
Jerry Markbrelt NFL referee 
Super Bowl. lie retired in 1998. 
Jerry Seeman worked two Super Bowls and later was head of offici­ating. He especial­ly remembered the New York Giants' 20-19 win over Buffalo in 1991 when Scott Norwood missed a field goal at the end. 
"You didn't even know we were on the field," Seeman said in a tele­phone interview from his winter 

home in Hancho Mirage, Calif. "That's what you love to have happen. You understand what your role is, you contribute to the success of the game, but you're not out there to get the credits or the discredits or what it is that happens. You want to stay out of' it." 
To prepare for the Super Bowl, lhn erew is sent videos of both teams so they can become morn familiar with the forma­lions and alignments. The ol1i­cials arrive for the gamn Thursday and for thn only tirnn all season arn allownd to bring their families with thorn. 
On Friday, thny start review­ing morn video, then go to the field and practiee tlw coin loss. Yes, nven that has to bn pnrfnd. 
They rnally start focusing on the game Saturday, going through ali-day nwelings wlwnl l'enlira will go over points of emphasis and also review calls madn in the playoiT games. 
That rnnans he will explain to the crew why Morelli was wrong to overturn the intnn:np­tion in thn Colts-Stnders game. 
"I had snveral big-timn mis­takes," Markbreit said. "1 felt at the time that it happened, 'Why am I here?' You're heartsick about a eall that you made. You want everything to be perfect. But it's not a perfect science. There's nothing perfeet." 
-~--~-~--~-------------------------~------­
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, February 2, 2006 
NFL 

Super Bowl highlights problems in Detroit 
behind a fresh coat of paint, a Super Bowl, though the game
Game was last held 
few new downtown shops or was actually held in the suburb some repaved roads. There's of Pontiac, Mich. That Super
in Motown in 1982 
too many of them, and they're Bowl was remembered most not during a snowstorm everywhere. for fueling the economy but for You see them on the way into a game day snowstorm that 
Associated Press 
Ford Field, where abandoned wreaked havoc on those trying 
houses are sprinkled among to get to the game. 
DETHOIT -The Super Bowl muddy lots only a block or two Don't blame Kilpatrick for means big money to Keith from where captains of industry seizing the moment. Going to Vanillo. Forty bucks cash on and wealthy fans will sip Super Bowl events has to be a this day, and a chance to make chardonnay and lot more fun than even. more on Friday scaveng­nibble on delica-his usual duties, ing for half-full liquor bottles cies Sunday while which include pre­and empty cans outside the Kid the Steelers and siding over a city
"This is the kind of
Hock concert. Seahawks battle hemorrhaging so Waving an orange flag on a on the field below. event that creates much red ink that downtown street· corner You see them even the layoffs of
revolutionary
Wednesday, Vanillo was an downtown where 1,396 city workers 
changes in cities
unwitting example that the buildings with dis­last year didn't trickle-down theory of econom­tinctive architec­like Detroit. " stop the bleeding. ics somotimes d<ws work. ture compete for It might even 
lle would get live hours' work attention with take his mind off
Kwame Kilpatrick
at $8 an hour to lure drivers those boarded up the $8.6 billion
Detroit mayor
into a pay parking lot. That's and vacant, and that General huge for someone whose idea of you see them in Motors lost last a good day is selling some food adjoining neigh-year, the massive cards and finding a handful of borhoods where job cuts planned empty cans he can redeem for a liquor stores seem to be the by both GM and Ford in the dime apiece. only businesses thriving. Detroit area, or the city's aver­
The NFL, of course, wasn't As big as the Super Bowl is, age of nearly a murder a. day thinking about people like 60 minutes of football can't last year. Vanillo when it rewarded undo a half century of decay. "We want to introduce our­to fend off the cold. then got shot. Detroit for building a new stadi­One game isn't nearly big selves to the world and redeem The disparity between rich For those like Vanillo who um by giving it the game a few enough to jump-start the ourselves from 1982," and poor screams out as you have to live here, though, it's years back. Their kind of client rebuilding of a 304-year-old city Kilpatrick said. "We're light walk from the Renaissance deadly serious. dines in luxury boxes, not off of whose main industry is teeter­years ahead of where we were Center on the Detroit River On a normal week he sells his cardboard boxes. ing on the brink of collapse and just four short years ago." toward the city's two new ball­food card for 70 cents on the 
Detroit apparently wasn't whose residents are fleeing at That may be true. But Detroit, parks. And, if people are com­dollar to a friend, and pawns off paying much attention, either. It the rate of 200 a week. which has lost more than half ing downtown in greater num­partly filled liquor bottles he was too busy trying to make That, of course, hasn't its 2 million population since bers, it wasn't evident even with might be lucky enough to lind. itself presentable, hoping the stopped the politicians from try­the 1950s, is also light years fans in town a few days before With steady work this day on nation's news media would fol­ing. away from reclaiming its place the Super Bowl. the corner of Griswold and low the party line and spread "This is the kind of event that among great American cities. It's easy to make fun of it all, State, though, his biggest con­the message of a great city's creates revolutionary changes You don't need to study statis­especially if you don't have to cern was being able to use the rebirth. in cities like Detroit," Mayor tics to know unemployment is come back. restroom of a nearby building 
Here's a news flash. It didn't Kwame Kilpatrick said earlier terribly high. Just look on the One Pittsburgh columnist before it closes at noon. work. this week. streets, where bands of idle wrote that if his city was a shot "I could be hustling liquor Try as it might, Detroit could­It didn't in 1982 when Detroit men congregate on downtown and a beer town, Detroit was a bottles or looking for cans n't hide its warts this week was the official host of the streets, smoking and drinking town where you had a beer and instead," he said. 

NFL 

McNabb offended by 
Terrell O-wens, again 
Associated Press slap in the face to me. It was a 
slap in the face because, as 
DETROIT -Eagles quarter­deep as people want to go into back Donovan McNabb injected it, it was black-on-black crime." a race element into his rift with Not long after that, an NAACP Terrell Owens on Wednesday, leader criticized McNabb for saying the receiver's criticism "playing the race card" in amounted to "black-on-black explaining why he didn't run crime." the ball as often 
In an interview as he used to. with ESPN, In November,
"It was definitely a
McNabb rehashed the Eagles sus­some of the low slap in the face to pended Owens for moments of his me. It was a slap in the remainder of 
relationship with the season for his
the face because,
his teammate, repeated criticism 
making fun of as deep as people of the team, 
Owens' driveway want to go into it, McNabb and sev­apology and eral other issues.
it was

bringing up the The team recently
black-on-black
race angle. gave Owens per­
In November, crime. mission to seek a responding to a trade, and this question from week he visited
Donovan McNabb
Michael Irvin dur­the Denver 
Eagles quarterback 
ing an ESPN Broncos. interview, Owens On Wednesday, said Philadelphia McNabb brought would likely be in a better situ­up some of the criticism he had ation if Brett Favre was the taken through his career, and quarterback instead of the said Owens was simply piling banged-up McNabb. on with his statement. 
"It was like, it's unreal," "It's different to say, 'If we McNabb said. had Michael Vick or Daunte SJ'ONSOR,ED BY MULT!CULTl)R.AL PROGRAMS ANQ.$ERVICtS.AND
"That's like me going out and Culpepper or Steve McNair or 
LEGENDS
saying, 'lley, if we had Steve Byron Leftwich,"' McNabb said Largent. If wo had Joe of four black starting quarter­Jurevicius. It was definitely a backs. 

r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, February 2, 2006 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 
GOLF 
Mickelson feels at home with crowds, course 
Golfer won 2005 FBR Open with record setting round 
Associated Press 
SCOTTSI>t\LI~. t\riz. -Phil Mic.kelson loves the FBH Opnn, and tlw f"neling is mutual. 
lin used to livn in Scottsdaln, and thn rowdy crowds that f"lood t.hn Tournament Players Championship Course still l:on­side r hi rn 1111 I' of their own. Mkkelson won the tournamnnt twice, in IlJ!Jh and last year, wlwn lw lind tlw eourse roeord with an I 1-undnr-par (,{) in thn second round. 
ll was his best I H-hole scorn and. lw said, thn lwst round of his lifo. 
"This is one of my favorite wnnks," Mickelson said Wndnesday before his pro-am round. "Thnrc's a fneling we gnt at this course, with this many pnople, that we don't get any­wlwnl nlsn. It's pretty cool to have a ehanen to have won it now a couple of times." 
Micknlson and Vijay Singh lead a linld that will bngin play Thur·sday on the par-71, 7,216­yard eoursn. Tignr Woods hasn't played in the event sincn 2001. IIn wportndly is gntting $3 mile lion to play in this week's Dubai l>nsnrt <:lassie. 
So Mieknlson is everybody's favoritn in a tournanwnt he hopes will kic.k-start his season, just as it did last year. Miekolson had an nrratie final round to finish two shots behind Woods, Jose Maria Olazabal and Nathan Groen at last week­nnd's Bukk Invitational. Woods won tlw tournamnnt in a play­
off. 

''I've had a couple of chances but haven't really played very well," Miekelson said. "But l'vn beon able to get the ball in thn hole and get in eontnntion." 
lie said he's made a few adjustments after talking with instructors Hiek Smith and Davn Pelz. 
"I think I may have ironed out a few things," Mickelson said. "I went out and played yosterday, and it seemed to be a littlo bit b!llter, so I'm cautiously opti­mistic about playing well this wnek." 
Tho left-bander's big drivns should bouncn even farther on the dry fairways. 
The Phoenix area has gonn a rneord 105 days without rain, and sunshine with tempera­tures in the mid to high 70s is forecast through the weekend. Sprinklers ean do only so mueh to sol'tnn the torrain. 
"It will .be a matter of guys trying to hit driver, trying to knock it on thn surface of [the par-51 17. trying to have short imns or mid irons into the par 5s. I think the weather will be a big faetor," Mickelson said. 
Booming shots should mean shrinking scores, unlike last year, when wind played havoc with the first round. 
"The first day was brutal," Mickelson rnealled. "Balls worn rolling off thn greens, and yet we still played, and you just tried to hang in thero, and then when the wind died down, turn it on and try to make some birdies. 
"This week I think it's going to be more of a shootout. It looks like it's going to bo beautiful weather. I think we're going to see a lot of low scorns. 

Mickelson has earned $1.6 million at tho FBH Open, for­merly known as the Phoenix Open. That's more than any other golfer. This yoar's winner gets $936,000. 
Some golfers don't like tho raucous atmosplwre on the north Seottsdale eourse, whnre a crowd of 165,168 was report­ed for last year's third round. 

Tho atmosphnre is nspneially unusual on the par-3 16th hole, wlwre thn crowd surrounds the nntire holn like a football stadi­um, chnnring boisterously and singing the eollngo light songs of some of the golfers. They even boo bad shots. 
Camilo Villegas, tlw 24-year­old Colombian given a sponsor's exomption to competo, said he can't wait. 
''I've heard many storios, and I'm looking forward to that 16th toe," Villegas said. 

GYMNASTICS 
Winter Cup unveils scoring system 
Associated Press them. tested for two snasons hefon~ 
Now. instead of a singlo score officials dneided it was rnady 
LAS VEGAS -The _Winter based on a maximum start for use at the world ehampi­Cup will have a different look value of 10.0, there's an open­onships and Olympics. this year. ended, two-mark Gymnasties offi­
The annual ranking meet for format that is eials deeidnd to the top U.S. male gymnasts supposed to give a "/ think it's jump right in. bogins Thursday in Las Vogas, truor reprosonta­actually a good Though somn and will be one of tho first to tion of thn worth twnaks will be
thing we're just
use tho sport's new, open-endod of a routino. made over tlw scoring systom. Instlmd of 9.6s One panel of jumping right into next 2 1/2 years, and H.5s, get ready for 12.4s judgns will deter­it. The speculation tlw system that and 15.2s. minn the difliculty will lw usnd at tho
has been removed. " 
"I think it's aetually a good mark, combining Beijing Olympics thing we're just jumping right thn preset valun will ho tlw samn into it." said Steve Penny, presi­of the 10 highost Steve Penny one usnd this d!~nt of US;\ Gymnasties. "Tho elements and president wonk at Wintnr speculation has been removnd. adding points for Cll p an d at IW X t
USA Gymnastics
Everybody's ehanging tlwir rou­connections or month's t\nwriean tines. We have to move with tho roquired skills. A Cup. ehango if we're going to remain separate panel of judges starts "Wn'vn kind of gotten ovnr competitive." at 10.0 and takes deductions for wlwtlwr thny should have usnd 
Tho International (;ymnasties exneution, presentation and it as a ll~st ynar·," Penny said. Federation dneid-artistry. The high­"This will evolve a little bit ovnr ed to overhaul its est and lowest of tlw nnxt two ynars. Bntwnnn scoring system "Everybody's those scores are 2006 and 2007. wn'rn all going af'ter several judg­changing their droppod, and thn to bn adapting. But wn're hop­ing orrors marred remaining a.n1 ing what we can do is got to tho
routines."

the Athens averagnd for tho 2007 world ehampionships and Olympics. Not artistic mark. nvnryonn will bn abln to hone in only was Paul Steve Penny The two marks on B1~ijing." llamm 's gold president arc then addnd Whiln gymnastics officials medal in limbo for together for a wc1re eritieiznd most for aban­
USA Gymnastics
two months final score. doning the I0.0 mark that has because of a scor-Figure skating dofined tho sport, many oppo­ing error, but routines that went through a similar transi­nents also f"earnd an opon­were vastly dill'erent all had tho tion after the 2002 Olympics. ended scoring format would sam<! value on paper, making it But instead of implementing the turn gymnastics into an X difficult for judges to separate new system right away, it was Games-like spectade. 

r 
page 22 Thursday, February 2, 2006 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Tennessee Tech coach returns despite disease 
Mike Sutton leads Golden Eagles, fights possible paralysis 
Associated Press 
COOKEVILLE, Tenn. -For most of his life, Tennessee Tech basketball coach Mike Sutton has counted wins and losses. Now he measures success in smaller increments. 
Raising an arm one week, both the next. Breathing without a ventilator, then having his tracheoto­my tube 

removed a Sutton day later. Lying on his stomach for the first time in eight months ­even if someone has to roll him over. 
Sutton recently returned to coaching, but he still uses a motorized wheelchair in the slow recovery from Guillain­Barre Syndrome, a mysterious disorder in which the immune system attacks the peripheral nerves and weakens the legs and arms. 
It can be life-threatening and leave the victim paralyzed. 
Actor Andy Griffith couldn't walk for seven months after a bout with Guillain-Barre in 1983, and "Catch-22" author Joseph Heller wrote "No Laughing Matter" about his fight with the disease. 
"I had never heard of it," the 49-year-old Sutton said. 
A 29-year coaching veteran, Sutton was 58-13 in his three seasons at Tennessee Tech after being an assistant to Tubby Smith at five different schools, including Kentucky. He was coming off his best season yet, one in which Golden Eagles won the Ohio Valley Conference reg­ular-season title. 
But one weekend in April, Sutton had a cough, and pain in his feet and hands. He was struggling to dial his cell phone or open a bottle of water. He thought it was the flu, so he decided against joining his wife in Tampa, Fla., to see his new granddaughter. Then he col­lapsed in the parking garage of a Virginia hotel. 

Sutton immediately sought help from a friend who's also a plastic surgeon, a decision that may have saved his life. Instead of flying home to Tennessee, his friend told Sutton's brother to drive the coach to Bon Secours 
DePaul  Medical  Center  in  
Norfolk, Va.  
Sutton  doesn't  remember  

much after that. He gave his assistant coaches a to-do list over the telephone, and his friend, Dr. Richard Rosenblum, directed his care. 
"He kind of took the bull by the horns: 'This is what you're going to do and who you're going to see,"' Sutton's wife, Karen, said. 
Still, Sutton deteriorated rap­idly and was put on a ventilator, medicated for the pain and needed a tracheotomy on April 
13. He remembers seeing his mother and sisters two days later before being flown to Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville, but can't recall his daughter's visit in Tennessee. 
His only form of communica­tion was blinking his eyes to spell out words. 
"You just had to do what you could do," Karen Sutton said. "They had charts you could point to, but he couldn't point." 
His team didn't know how bad he was until after he had been moved to a rehabilitation hospi­tal in Nashville to wean him off the ventilator. They had hoped he would be back within days, then weeks and then learned the prognosis was months. 
"It was really scary," associate head coach Steve Payne said. 
By June, Sutton was finally able to speak briefly and move his legs. He was taken off the ventilator July 18 and later that week moved to a hospital in Cookeville, about 70 miles east of Nashville. 
On Campus Junior Parent Weekend Special February 16-20, 2006 
Come early, stay late, same price! Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents. Weekend donation is $100.00 per parent, Whether you stay Two, three, or four nights. Rooms are available Thursday through Sunday. For reservations call574-631-7512 or 574-631-9436 
SuPER BowL XL 
Seahawks finally get respect 
Seattle has wallowed in mediocrity since coming into the league 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -Jerramy Stevens grew up an hour outside of Seattle. He played his college ball in Seattle. And, like some Seattle-ites, he never bothered to root for the Seahawks. 
That is, until they drafted him in 2002. 
"l was always a Raiders fan -silver and black," the tight end said. "l didn't become a Seahawks fan until four years ago." 
No wonder his team didn't attract a lot of attention outside the Pacific Northwest for most of 30 seasons spent somewhere within a game or two of .500. 
Sunday's Super Bowl between the Seahawks and the Pittsburgh Steelers couldn't present a starker contrast in franchise histories. 
Pittsburgh's is long and rich -73 years long and four Super Bowl victories rich. The Steelers have 16 Hall of Famers, 10 from the teams that won four Super Bowls in six seasons from 1974-79. 
The Seahawks, in their first Super Bowl, have one Hall of Farner: Steve Largent, the star wide receiver on a few good Seattle teams of the 1980s and later a congressman from Oklahoma. 
In fact, the Seahawks have fewer people in their own Ring of Honor than the Steelers have in the Hall -10, includ­ing the late Pete Gross, the team's radio play-by-play man for its first 17 seasons. 
"People dog the Seahawks because there's not history here, but there is," quarter-
THOMAS AQUINAS SYMPOSIUM 
on 

THOMAS AQUINAS ON FRIENDSHIP 
Saturday, February 4, 2006 Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall Saint Mary's College 
2:30p.m. "Eros and Friendship" Keith J. Egan 
3:30p.m. Refreshments 

4:00p.m. "Thomas Aquinas on Friendship: Cultivating Intimacy and Emotional Integrity" Diana Frtiz Cates 
****** 

All Are Welcome: Especially Students A Celebration ofthe 60th Anniversary ofa Theology/Religious Studies Major at Saint Mary's College 
Sponsored by the  Aquinas Chair  
Joyce McMahon Hank  Saint Mary's College  
Aquinas Chair in Catholic Theology  Information: 574-284-4636  


back Matt Hasselbeck said recently. "Obviously, it doesn't go back as far as the Redskins or Packers or teams like that, but there's history here." 
The Seahawks' chances of getting much national recogni­
tion  - even negative recogni­ 
tion  - were doomed from the  
start.  

They entered the NFL as an expansion team in 1976 at the same time as the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. 
No contest. While the Seahawks were winning a respectable seven in their first two seasons, the Bucs lost their 
NINTH ANNUAL 
first 26 and became a national joke. 
That's Seattle's history: never good enough to grab the head­lines, never bad enough to become the butt of the jokes reserved for teams such as the Bucs, Bengals, Cardinals and most recently the Lions. 
In the 22 seasons between 1983 and 2004, the Seahawks won between seven and nine games 15 times, the perfect definition of mediocrity in a 16­game schedule. Their win over the Washington Hedskins this season was their first in the postseason in 21 years. 

Thursday, February 2, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
SuPER BowL XL 
No Motown at big game 
Few local acts will perform in Detroit during Seahawks-Steelers week 
Associated Press 
1>1\THOIT -Looking for the Temptations on Super Bowl Sunday'? They'll be in Charlottesville, Va. 
Smokey Hobinson'? lie's playing down the block from Ford Finld tlw night before. 
Diana Boss? Nothing on her seheduln. America's biggest sporting 

event is in Detroit this 
year, hut "They made a strong 
there won't point to say. this is all lw any corre­
great, hut at the end of
sponding enl­
nbration of the day we've heen trying 
the Motown to get the Rolling Stones sound that 
and Prince to do halftime
has long 
for many years."
defined the 
dty. 
At least not 
Brian Patorla 

on the N FL's 
Harmonie Park creative group 
turf. 
"Yeah. it's a little disappointing," said Fred Bridges, longtime road man­ager for tlw Four Tops. "But it's tlwir show. You'd love to be in it, but what are you going to do'! It's their party." 
The Tops actually were recently added to the less­watched, less-prestigious pregame show, very little or which will be tnhwised. Stevie Wonder will play and Aretl1a Franklin will sing the national anthnm along with New Orleans native Aaron Neville. 
"I was upset initially, and I voiced that," Detroit mayor Kwame Kilpatrick said Wndnnsday. "The NFL missed a golden opportunity. I'm glad Stevie Wonder was added ­late -and Aretha Franklin was added very late." 
All were invited to perform aftnr the NFL heard morn than its share of complaints upon announcing that London's own, the Holling Stones, would provide the halftime entertain­ment. 
Since the currnnt uproar hogan, NFL spokesman Brian McCarthy has said several 
times that the league always intended to pay tribute to Motown in the pregame show. 
llalftime, though, is a different story. 
"The Super Bowl tran­
scends tlw host eity and 

even tho eountry," he said. 
That became very elear to Brian Pastoria last year when he shownd the NFL his propos­al for a halftime show that would feature the old and new of Detroit music -Kid Hock, Aretha, Bob Seger and more. 
"They were obviously impressed by it," said Pastoria of Detroit's Harmonie Park Creativn Group. "But they made strong point to say, 'This is all great, but at the end of the day, we've been trying to get the Holling Stones and Prince to do halftime for many years. If the Holling Stones want to do it, they're going to do it."' 
In any other year, in any 
other city, that would have been great. It's just that this year, they're in Detroit. 
"Motown started here. That's about it," said Seattle running back Shaun Alexander when asked what, exactly, he knows about the Super Bowl host city. 
Instead of llaunting that faet, the NFL chose to do very little with it, which didn't sit well with many folks -from the mayor, to the city council, to many of the musicians who either grew up in Detroit or came here to start their careers with the famed Motown recording label. 
Aretha. Smokey. Diana Hoss and the Supremos. The Commodores. Martha Heeves. Michael Jackson -OK, so maybe the NFL doesn't want to go there. 
The point is, though, that there were plenty or choices. 
"It was my feeling: 'IIow dare you come to Detroit, a city of legends -musical leg­ends plural -and not ask one or two of them to participate,"' said Franklin, who grew up singing in the Detroit church where her father was a rev­erend. "That's not the way it should be. Of course, they made that correction with no sweat." 
Still, for a league with such a meticulous eye on planning and details -there will be about 100 people on the field to participate in and document the opening coin toss -this has largely been viewed as another surprising miscalcula­tion. 
]club_infor.mation_meetings.exe 
]Are you involved in an extracurriculariffic club? I 
today is your last chance for the 
Club Information Meetings 
Thursday, 2/2/06@ 4PM (Social Service) &5PM (Special Interest) * location: montgomery auditorium, lafortune * duration: 30 mins * 
] Any student who is amember of arecognized club is eligible to run for aCCC representative position. Those wishing to represent their division's clubs on the CCC should attend that division's CIM.I 
] Each club's two highest ranking officers must attend aCIM this week. I 
] Officers need not attend the same meeting. All division meetings are the same. I 
This begins the annual Club Registration process. In order to be eligible for CCC allocations, concession stands, a table at Activities Night 2006, posting &room reservation privileges, and more, each club must meet the deadlines for registration. I 
Questions? Email: ccc@nd.edu or ageist@nd.edu 
NASCAR 

Ste"Wart battles injury, prepares for ne"W year 
Reigning Nextel Cup champ meets Bush, competes in Rolex 2 4 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS -Though his ribs are still sore from a sprint car crash last month, reigning NASCAR Nextel Cup champion Tony Stewart would still rather be in a race car than sitting and fretting over his aching right side. 
Stewart drove several long stints last weekend during the Rolex 24 sports car endurance race in Daytona Beach, Fla. 
"Really, the only time I didn't think about the pain from the ribs was when I was in the race car," the Columbus, Ind., resident said Wednesday. "That's pretty much the best time for me, when I'm in a race car." 
Stewart's No. 20 Joe Gibbs Hacing Chevrolet was one of more than 40 Cup cars that took part in the three-day pre­season test session that ended WPdnesday at Las Vegas Motor Speedway. Each car was allowed to participate in two of the three days of testing on the 1.5-mile track. 
Asked about what kind of treatment he is getting for the sore ribs, Stewart shrugged and said, "It's nothing but watching the days go by on the calendar." 
Stewart, who also won the Cup title in 2002, said he is confident he'll feel just fine by the time practice for the sea­son-opening Daytona 500 opens on Feb. 10. 
It's been an eventful few weeks for Stewart since he flipped a sprint car on Feb. 13 in Tulsa, Okla. 
Bnsides racing and tnsting, Stewart and the rest of his championship team, visited the White House two wneks ago, meeting with Prnsidont George Bush in the Oval Of'fiee and posing for photographs with a show car on the South Lawn. 

"It was cool," Stewart said. "It was fun. You know me, lm always a guy who's off the beaten path, and we walked in there, and I said, 'IIi boss, and he said, Whats up, dude'?' 
"For the president of the United States to say, 'Whats up, dude?' that made my trip right there." 
Newly promoted car chief Jason Shapiro elaimed the other highlight, according to Stewart. lie said Shapiro gave the president a friendly pat on the baekside. The Secret Service, it seems, wasn't faznd. 
Still, Stewart said, "I started backing away from thn presi­dent at that point." 
Stewart will be among the title favorites again this sea­son, but the champion said he won't make any predictions. 
"A season's still a snason," Stewart said. "Let's not rein­vent the wheel. We're starting this year with the samn guys and the same attitude we did the year before, and the year before that." 
With new testing rules severely limiting testing by tlw Cup teams at tracks on which they will race, this is a key test -particularly for the upcom­ing races at the 2-mile California Speedway on FPh. 26 and Las Vegas on March 12. 
That is apparently why so many teams took advantage of the opportunity to ru.n here. 
"For the racing aspeet of the test, it's very vital," said 2004 Cup champion Kurt Busd1, who moved from Housh Haeing to Penske Hacing South during the winter. "There's no more important tnst than Vegas. Thn nnxt tnst the tnams have will at a track we raen on will bn in May, and that's vnry far down the line. 
"Wo've got a ton of raens until that tnst at Hichmond. Wn've got quitn a bit of guess­ing to get through tlw next part of t111~ season, and that's why this test is very impor­tant." 

r--­
page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, February 2, 2006 
NHL 
Red Wings motor to late 3-2 victory over Blues 
Zetterberg scores game-winning goal with 3:55 remaining 
Associated Press 
DETHOIT -The Detroit Hed 

Wings overcame a slow start 
and got a break on the winning 
goal. 
Henrik Zetterberg scored the 

tiebreaking goal with 3:55 
remaining and Detroit rallied 
for a 3-2 victory over the St. 
Louis Blues on Wednesday 
night. 
Zetterberg got his 24th of the 

season when he put in the 
rebound of Andreas Lilja's shot 
just after Lilja had eome out of 
the penalty box. 
"Unfortunately for us, the guy 

steps out of the penalty box as 
soon as they start a rush," 
Blues goalie Curtis Sanford 
said. "And Zetterberg makes a 
great play to beat our defense­
man." 
Lilja eame in off the left wing 

and took a shot that Sanford 
knocked away, but Zetterberg 
was there to slam the puck into 
the empty net. 
"Andreas made a pretty good shot," Zetterberg said. "I came around. lie would have been · mad at me if I had missed that 
one." 
Mikael Samuelsson and 

Brendan Shanahan also scored 
for Detroit, and Manny Legace 
made 29 saves. Defenseman 
Niklas Kronwall, playing in his 
first game after preseason knee 
surgery, had two assists. 
Lee Stempniak and Keith 

Tkachuk scored for St. Louis, 
and Sanford stopped 35 shots. 
Shanahan's goal 8:10 into the 

third period tied the game at 2. 
His slap shot from just inside 
the blue line beat Sanford for 
his 24th goal. 
Stempniak opened the scoring 

at 8:37, when he put in Dean 
McAmmond's rebound. 
Tkachuk -playing for the 

first time since breaking his 
right hand Dec. 16 -made it 2­
0 with 5:06 remaining in the 
opening period, poking in Peter 
Cajanek's shot after it had slith­
ered through Legace's pads. 
"You've got to give their guys 

credit," Red Wings coach Mike 
Babcock said. "A bunch of 
young kids, you know they're 
going to work hard." 
And Detroit didn't work near­

ly as hard. 
"The whole team wasn't 

involved," Kronwall said. "The 
second period, there was more 
offense and we created more 
chances." 
Samuelsson capitalized on 

one to put Detroit on the board 
It's coming sooner 
5:05 into the second period, when he tipped in a pass from Zetterberg to cut the Blues' lead to 2-1. 
Detroit outshot St. Louis 18-7 in the period. 
"We're up 2-0 and they play almost the entire second period in our end," Tkachuk said. 
Devils 5, Senators 3 
After going 2 1/2 games with­out a goal, the New Jersey Devils wasted little time ending their scoring drought against Dominik Hasek and the Ottawa Senators. 
Zach Parise, Grant Marshall and Jamie Langenbrunner scored first-period goals and the Devils held off the Senators Wednesday night to end a two­game losing streak. 
Sergei Brylin and Eric Rasmussen also scored for the Devils, and Martin Brodeur made 27 saves. 
"The Senators are a team· we are looking up at in the stand­ings," said Brodeur. "They beat a lot of teams in our division. Any points we get against them is a plus." 
New Jersey, shut out in its last two games, had not scored in a franchise-record span of 154:05 -since Viktor Kozlov's goal at 
9:56 of the second period of a 4­0 victory against the New York Islanders on Jan. 24. 
Parise ended the Devils' scor­ing drought 1:40 into the game after Brylin intercepted a pass between Ottawa defensemen Zdeno Chara and Chris Phillips, and sent the puck cross-ice to Parise for the tip past Hasek. 
"They tried to rim the puck out of the zone and Sergei made a good play," Parise said. "He found me streaking to the back­side. I just tried to lift it over his pad." 
Antoine Vermette, Dany Heatley and Patrick Eaves scored for the Northeast Division-leading Senators, who lost their second straight game. 
Ottawa, the top defensive team in the NHL, uncharacter­istically surrendered five goals in both losses. 
"We had some segments of the game where we played real­ly well and then we let up for a shift or two," said Heatley. "Ten goals in two games, we're not playing the way we can defen­sively." 
New Jersey's second and third goals were deflections -only one intentional. Marshall redi­rected Paul Martin's point shot past Hasek for a power-play goal at 14:39. 
Langenbrunner was credited with the goal that made it 3-0 at 
15:23 when Ottawa defenseman Christoph Schubert deflected 
than you think. 

is j~·  ner!  
Get  free delive:r:ttm·  flover.  balloons.  
or  candy purcu~;.J:ijr . rdering before  

wednesd.a·¥ Feb. s 
LaFortune Basement 
Iri~h ~dt:DS 631-4004 
MON-THURS 12:30-5:30
rkJwer ~h~J? 

FRI-SAT 12:30-7:30 
the shot into his own goal. 
"We kind of game them two of the three goals in the first peri­od with mistakes we made," said Senators captain Daniel Alfredsson. "It's hard to play on the road that way." 
The Senators cut deficit to 3-1 when Vermette knocked Brian McGrattan's rebound past Brodeur with 2:25 remaining in the first. 
Heatley brought Ottawa with­in one at 7:44 of the second. 
Brylin took a pass from Marshall and beat Hasek on the power play with 23 seconds remaining in the period to make it 4-2. Hasmussen scored his first goal in 32 games, at 2:59 of the third, to restore the Devils' three-goal lead. 
Eaves closed out the scoring 
2:45 later. 
Stars 2, Predators 1 
Dallas coach Dave Tippett spread the credit around after his team matched a season high with its sixth straight victory. He saved his highest praise for the Stars' penalty-killing. 
Brenden Morrow had a goal and an assist and Marty Turco made 23 saves as the Stars beat the Nashville Predators Wednesday night. 
Philippe Boucher also scored for the Stars, who needed over­time or shootouts to win their previous four. 
The Predators went 0-for-6 on the power play, the last oppor­tunity coming in the final minute with Stars defenseman Sergei Zubov in the penalty box for hooking. 
Nashville pulled goalie Tomas Vokoun to give the Predators a 6-on-4 advantage, but a penal­ty-killing unit led by Jon 

···············································~ 
~ University Resources . : • 
for Gay, Lesbian, & • 
• • Bisexual Students • 
•
•

•e COII!it<IITT!tlll: ON •
•

C.t.V Allf(l ~llliiAfll 
e STUr.tlrNT fii.JtlfD!'I • 
• 

• The Standing Committee on Gay and • • Lesbian Student Needs • 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
• Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, /-5550, or student • •• members (see web site for student contact info.) •
• 

• Office of Campus Ministry • • (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students • • and their friends; pertinent library resources in • • 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) • 
Contact: Fr. Dick Warner, C.S.C., at 1-9704 
• University Counseling Center • • (Individual counseling) • • Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at lafferty.3@nd.edu •
• 

• For more intonnation, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ • 
................................................: 
Detroit's Henrik Zetterberg searches for the puck in the first period of Wednesday night's 3-2 win against the Blues. 
Klemm, Boucher, Stu Barnes shots. and Jere Lehtinen kept the heat Nashville controlled the action off Turco. in the third period, outshooting 
"I thought it was excellent," Dallas 7-1, but the Predators' Tippett said. "We blocked a lot late power play failed to gener­of lanes and didn't give them a ate a shot on Turco in the final lot to shoot at, and on the minute: chances they did get to the net, "We were trying to get guys Turco was real good. We got a open in front of the net and it couple of big goals but the just didn't happen," Nashville penalty-killing was the key for coach Barry Trotz said. "We us." didn't generate anything there. 
Martin Erat got Nashville's When you get a chance like only goal, at 7:15 of the third that, you have to create havoc period, and Vokoun stopped 21 and make something happen." 
-
r------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, February 2, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
game, 27 of which came in the 6-of-12 shooting from 3-point Mountaineers defeated the was impressive off the bench first half. The Irish were 14-range. Irish was Feb. 14, 1999. for Notre Dame. The senior
Irish 
continued from page 28 
came lighting back. 
Irish guard Colin Palls hit a :~-pointer with 5:2H left in the first half and Notre Dame went on a 10-2 run from there -fordng West Virginia to call a timeout. Quinn hit a 3-point­nr at tho buzzer to r.ut West Virginia's lead to four at the half. 
Brey said Monday the 3­point rield goal eould become a factor in thn ganw with the way both teams play on the ofTnnsivc end. lie was right. 
Both teams combined to attempt 56 3-pointers in the 
Olivet 
continued from page 28 
"Tho matehup zone was def­initely the key to our turn­around." said Saint Mary's eoar.h Steve Bender, whose tnam led 40-2S at halftime. 
The Belles did not lot up to of-26 in the game, compared Brey has said throughout to West Virginia's Notre Dame's 12-of-:W. slump the team 
Six players -needs to find Pittsnogle, Gansey, "You need to hit a some luck to get Herber, Patrick back on track.
runner there. You
Beilein, Frank Wednesday night Young and J.D. need to be a little was no different. Collins all lucky and hit that "You need to attempted 3s in hit a runner
there."

the game for West there," Brey told Virginia. the Associated 
Quinn led the Mike Brey Press. "You need Irish with 24 Irish head coach to be a little points on H-of-16 lucky and hit shooting, 6-of-1 0 that there." from bohind the The win was are. The senior guard added West Virginia's first against four assists and a steal. Falls Notre Dame in its last 12 added 1 H for Notre Dame on attempts. The last time the 
with 28 points, Saint Mary's played what Bender called "a really great game." 
"This was an absolutely huge win for us," Bender said, after his team secured at least 
a .500 record in league play. 
Shelly Bender recorded a double-double for the Belles with 12 points. She also added 
11 rebounds -a career high. 

start the second Audrey
"This was an

half, extending Graham led their lead to 21 absolutely huge Olivet (12-7 points with just win for us. " overall, 8-3 12 minutes left MIAA) with 20 in thn contest. points. But, with
Steve Bender 

But the Comets the victory, Saint 
Belles head coach 

offense clawed Mary's drew to 
baek, narrowing the d11fieit to 7 points when Stephanie Smith hit a three-pointer with 1:45 to play. 
The Belles held on to win it due to their solid free-throw shooting. Tlwy made 2H of tlwir :H, attempts from the linn, ineluding H-of-1 0 after Smith's shot. 
LcHI hy last WP«lk's MIAA 
within a half­

game of the Comets for third place in the conference. 
The Belles host Calvin College at the Angela Athletic Center at 3 p.m. Saturday. Calvin is ranked 14th among Division Ill schools and Saint Mary's looks to record its lirst­ever win against the high­powernd squad. 
Player of llw Wnek Alison Knsslnr, who madn 15-of-18 Contact Fran Tolan at from the linn and finishnd ftolan@nd.edu 
NCAA MEN's BASKETBALL 
No.2 Blue Devils edge Eagles 
Redick scores 28 for 
Duke, team improves 
to 20-1 overall record 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -J.J. Redick scored 28 points, including four free throws in the final 65 seconds, to help second-ranked Duke hold off No. 15 Boston College 83-81 on Wednesday night. 
Duke (20-1, 8-0 Atlantic Coast Conference) led by as many as 18 early in the ser.ond half before BC (16-5, 4-4) whit­tled the lead to six. The Eagles made it a one-possession game in the final seconds without star Craig Smith, who fouled out with three minutes left. 
But Sheldm1 Williams stopped Tyrese Hiee on a coast­to-coast drive -sending him to the floor hard without draw­ing a foul. Williams, who fin­ished with seven blocks, was fouled and made both free throws with 7.4 seconds left. 
Williams had 21 points ­including 13-of-16 from the line. Josh McRoberts scored 14 and Sean Dockery had 12 for Duke, which has won three straight since its only loss, at Georgetown on Jan. 21. 
Jared Dudley had a season­high 28 points for Boston College, whir.h had won four straight games in the ACC since opening its first season in the conference 0-3. The Eagles fell to 0-4 this year against ranked opponents. 
North Carolina State 66, VIrginia 64 
RALEIGH, N.C. -Cameron Bennerman had a great view of both shots that decided the outcome Wednesday night. The first was his own attempt from in close that bounced off the rim into his waiting hands, and he put it back up and in to give No. 18 North Carolina State the read for good. 
The next one was a 35-foot heave from Sean Singletary that would have won it for Virginia at the buzzer. 
"All I could think about was, 'I hope he doesn't make that,"' 
Bennerman said. 
Singletary didn't, allowing the Wolfpaek to escape with a gritty victory. 
Tony Bethel led the scoring with 16 points, Bennerman had that all-important basket with 74 seconds remaining and N.C. State solidified its hold on sec­ond plaee in the Atlantic Coast ConferenCfl. 
Singletary's last-gasp effort never really had a chance to go 
~­



(South Bend Time) ATM, Food & Beverages $100.00 entry fee includes $25 registration 
';ilt4t Ptae-e 

PRIZE PooL 1s 1o% oF THE FIELD TOTALLING
I () () () () $22,500
, 

Register early at: www.fop36.com 
1st Place Prize and Prize Pool based on 300 participants prizes will be adjusted for fewer participants 
•join Us For Our First 
Doors Open at 2pm Game Begins at 4pm 
The loss drops added 10 points the Irish to 1-7 in on 5-of-9 shoot­the Big East and "There is no ing after being 10-9 overall. Even used sparingly
difference in Notre
though the Irish this season. lie are at the bottom Dame and the top also grabbed 7 of the league, their of the league. " rebounds in 16 close losses show minutes. they are competi­Notre Dame
John Belleln
tive every game. outrcboundcd 
"There is no dif­West VIrginia West Virginia ference in Notre head coach 41-22. Both Dame and the top teams combined of the league," to attempt West Virginia coach John seven free throws. Beilein told the Associated The Observer was unable to Press. "One shot makes, one contact Brey Wednesday night. shot misses. That's the ball game." Contact Bobby Griffin at 
Irish forward Hick Cornett rgriffi3@nd.edu 

in, but it still was too dose for Wolfpaek coach llerb Sendek. 
"Your heart always stops," he said. "Every night, SportsCenter is filled with those shots." 
Cedric. Simmons had 15 points and three blocks for the Wolfpack (17 -4, 6-2 ACC), who lost to Seton Hall in their previ­ous home game to fall to 11-1 at the RBC Center. They trailed by four with 3 1/2 minutes remaining in this one and appeared headed toward another loss before a furious comeback. 
Texas 66, Missouri 53 
COLUMBIA, Mo. -P.J. Tucker's big second half helped No. 7 Texas overcome off­games from its other top scor­ers. 
Tucker scored 18 of his 20 points after the break and added 11 rebounds in a victory over Missouri on Wednesday night. Many of the points came after the 6-5 Tur.ker moved from the perimeter to inside. 
"In the second half Tueker took over the game," Missouri coar.h Quin Snyder said. "They went small with him and he was awfully tough for us to handle on the block." 
Kenton Paulino added· 14 points for the Longhorns (18-3, 6-1 Big 12), who shrugged off a 10-point loss at Oklahoma on Saturday and have won 10 of 
11. The Longhorns led by eight at halftime despite 33-pereent shooting. 
"We weren't playing like we usually play," Tucker said. "So we needed a spark. I tried to take it into my hands to try to get thn guys going, try to make it happnn." 

Texas led by as many as 21 points in the second half, even though lnading scorer LaMarcus Aldridge, Daniel Gibson and Brad Buckman never got rolling. Aldridge played 16 minutes due to foul problems and had five points and three rebounds, Gibson had eight points and Buckman four while missing all six shots. 
Memphis 84, Tulsa 61 
TULSA, Okla. -Memphis coach John Calipari thinks Rodney Carney should be men­tioned right with Duke's J . .J. Redick and Gonzaga's Adam Morrison as the best players in r.ollege basketball. 
For a two-minute stretch Wednesday night against Tulsa, the Tigers' top sr.orer showed off an fmtirely difl'nrent skill set than the two player of the year candidates. 
Carney, a 6-foot-7 senior, scored 12 of his 1CJ points dur­ing an impressive first-half run and Darius Washington .Jr. added 22 points as third­ranked Memphis streaked to a win. 
"I know .1 ..1. Hediek is good and I know Morrison is good, but you've got to have him in the same breath," Calipari said. 
"Neither one of those two are athletic like him. lin shoots the ball the same as they do. llis numbers are the same for his career." 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 2, 2006 
Recruits 
continued from page 28 
Weis said in his signing day press conference. "This was kind of anticlimatic to sit up there, you're wondering how everything is going to happen. Everything just kind of fell in line." 
The 27 commitments include six offensive linemen, five defensive backs, four wide receivers, three running backs, three defensive linemen, two quarterbacks, two linebackers, one tight end and one kicker. 
Of the 27, three have already enrolled at the University, Weis said. James Aldridge, a running back from Crown Point, Ind., Chris Stewart, an offensive line­man from Spring, Texas and George West, a wide receiver/kick returner from Spencer, Okla., enrolled at Notre Dame in January, enabling them to participate in spring practice, which starts March 22. 
The three scholarships also count against last year's class, enabling Notre Dame to have more than the NCAA-maximum of 25 scholarships per year. Weis said he left one extra scholarship available this year for a walk-on who might earn a scholarship. 
The class, ranked fifth by ESPN .com and Scout.com, is one that has fulfilled Weis's needs. 
"As a matter of fact, I was satisfied," Weis said. "Our biggest areas of concern num­bers-wise this year, we were going to overload on offensive line and defensive backs. We wanted to make sure we got two quarterbacks." 
The Irish lose two offensive linemen this year and next year lose three more. As a result, Weis signed six offensive line­men, with 6-foot-7 Sam Young from Coral Springs, Fla. -a five-star recruit -the highlight of the group. 
"This guy could have gone anywhere," Weis said of Young, who was one of the last to ver­bally commit to Notre Dame. "He picked us and really put a smile on my face. We're very happy to have Sam here." 
The other linemen inelude: Matt Carufel of Forest Lake, Minn.; Eric Olsen of Staten Island, NY; Stewart, Bartley Webb of Springdale, Ark.; and Dan Wenger of Coral Springs, Fla. 
The Irish were able to secure top commits at quarterback and defensive back as well. Cornerbacks Darrin Walls, of Pittsburgh, and Raeshon McNeil, of Cooleemee, NC, are expeeted to make an impact early, Weis said. McNeil was a 
U.S. Army All-American who bloeked a field goal and ran it back 65 yards for a touchdown in the game, and Walls was selected for the game but did thing he was excited about is these defensive players is they pressure quarterbaeks. 
"We wanted guys that could get after the passer," Weis said. "Because, if you just sit back there and wait all day, you can't blitz on every down just to cre­ate pressure. Sooner or later, some guys are going to have to win some one-on-one battles. So we wanted some guys that could get after the passer." 
Finally, kicker Ryan Burkhart, a Wakarusa, Ind., native, fin­ishes the class. He will be key to replacing graduating senior 
D.J. Fitzpatrick and will com­pete for the starting spot imme­diately. 
Weis said his first full class was a great one that will be instrumental in the future, as both he and the Irish have come a long way since last year's videoconference. 
"I told everyone in this class that this was going to be the elass that started Notre Dame back to the top," Weis said. "That doesn't mean we don't have a chance to compete this year or next year. f'm talking about perennially being at the top. 
"It's easy for a team once in a while to have a good year and a lot of times they flounder after­ward. That's not what we're shooting for here. We want to be a top team every year." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Walsh 
continued from page 28 
es to weekend stories. 
"What I've realized in my four years here is that by going out there and having fun everyday it takes the grind out of playing a full-year season," he said. "In general we try and just have fun, rip on each other." 
But things haven't always been so fun for Walsh, as he has had to overcome impossible odds to be able to strap the pads on today. Walsh severed his right Achilles tendon and had surgery to reattach it in early March of his sophomore season. He spent the next live months in a cast, completing a slow, painful rehab during which his foot 
very difficult injury to come baek from. I still don't have full range back in my Achilles, but it's something that definitely was one of the tough­est things I've had to deal with in my life because it restriets just everything you do." 
Along with rehabbing a torn tendon, Walsh overcame a com­plete atrophy of his calf muscle, an experience he describes as frightening. At best, the doctors told him, he would be able to skate again in December of the next year -but Walsh was back praeticing with the Irish by August. 
The injury came just prior to Notre Dame's lirst NCAA tour­nament appearance -a 5-2 loss to Minnesota -and a 6-5 loss to Ohio State in the CCIIA Super Six. Walsh remembers only bits of the Minnesota game due to a bad reaction to post­surgical medications, but the empty feeling he had watching the Irish play in the Super Six stuek with him. 
"I just remember sitting up in the stands and thinking I'm not a part of the team," he said. "You obviously are, but its tough sitting up in the stands and watching your team play. I didn't even know if I was going to even be on the bench again or on the ice again." 
Walsh is the lone Irish player from Massachusetts -a prep­hockey hotbed -and the only one from the New England hoekey stronghold. He joked that he likes to remind his Midwestern teammates that the 
"Putting on the
was steadily moved from a sweater every day, 
pointed down even putting on the 
position back up 
practice jersey, 
to its normal position. seeing Notre Dame 
"Honestly, on the front ofit,
when it hap­
there's a sense of
pened all the doctors said, 'You pride there. " probably won't play hockey 
Rory Walsh
again,"' Walsh 
Irish goalie 
said. "It was a 
East does hockey well too, something they don't readily admit. 
"I still keep in touch with my bud­dies because a lot of them don't matriculate out to the Midwest or a western confer­ence," Walsh said. "So it's tough sometimes, it's a different way of liv­ing out here but I like it. It's niee to be the person that 

represents your area." 
His suburban Boston home­town and standout performanc­es at Noble and Greenough School put him in contact with a lot of Eastern sehools looking to put him in their net -including Amherst College, Bowdoin and several Ivy League schools. But in the end a call from former head eoach Dave Poulin-who offered Walsh a spot on the team -and the urging of his father, Brian -who is a former Notre Dame standout -con­vinced Walsh to commit to the Irish. 
"Putting on the sweater every day, even putting on the prac­tice jersey, seeing Notre Dame on the front of it, there's a sense of pride there," Walsh said. "Its not play due to injury. The duo should help improve an embat­tled secondary, providing both talent and depth. 
"Both these guys were front­line earners that we had ear­marked from day one," Weis said. "We felt we had to go out and get us some cover corners that could play, play at a young age." 
The Irish also added defen­sive backs Sergio Brown of to Rivals.com and a three-star according to Scout.com. Barry Gallup, a 5-foot-11 wide receiv­er from Wellesley, Mass., rounds out the position. 
Weis also signed one tight end, Konrad Reuland, who hails from San Capistrano, Calif., and is a five-star recruit according to Scout.com. 
"We're really happy to be able to take one out of 
S o u t h e r n 
California," Weis 

Maywood, Ill., Leonard Gordon of Clarksville,  "I told everyone in this class that this  said. "It's a tough thing to do." Rounding out the  
Tenn., and Jashaad Gaines of Las Vegas, Nev., whose sis­ter, Tulyah, plays  was going to be the class that started Notre Dame back to the top. ''  offense and joining Aldridge at run­ning back is 5-foot­10 Munir Prince, who went to junior  
on the women's  high with Aldridge  
basketball team. Two other big pickups for Notre  Charlie Weis Irish head coach  in St. Louis. Prince will be joined by 6­foot-3 Luke  

Dame came at the quarterback position, where the Irish nabbed Demetrius Jones out of Chicago, Ill., and Zach Frazer out of Mechanicsburg, Penn. Both were selected to play in the U.S. Army All-American game and were tabbed four­star recruits by Rivals.com. 
Notre Dame also signed three wide receivers to join West in the fall, including 6-foot-4 Robby Parris and 6-foot-3 Richard Jackson. Parris is list­ed as a three-star by both Scout.com and Rivals.com, and Jackson is a four-star according 
something that I will absolutely miss, even in the spring when the seasons finally over I will miss that. I'll miss putting on your equipment and taking it off and talking with the guys." 
Walsh has logged many relief appearances in net over his four years, but his favorite game moment eame when he was given the nod as the team's starter to open the 2003 season against Ohio State. lie made 31 
Schmidt, who 
could play either running back or fullback, Weis said. 
On the defensive side of the ball, Weis signed one defensive tackle, Paddy Mullen of St. Louis, who played high school football with Prince, and two defensive ends -John Ryan of Cleveland, who played high school football with Parris, and Kallen Wade out of Cincinnati. 
Rounding out the defense are two Georgia linebackers -Morrice Richardson out of College Park and Toryan Smith · of Home. Weis said the biggest 
saves in a 5-2 Irish win -the last win over the Buckeyes until Saturday's 1-0 win. 
He also notes the consecutive victories over Boston College in the previous two seasons, made sweeter with the friends he has on the Eagles. The 3-2 win over the No. 1 Eagles last October on a goal from T.J. Jindra with :17 remaining was exhilarating but Walsh is equally satisfied with the private locker room moments with his buddies. 

"Every day coming to the rink is something I'll remember, because being a part of a team is not so much the wins and losses, but enjoying the guys and making friendships that will last a lot longer than the four years here at Notre Dame," he said. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: • Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Aflairs, 1-7407 • Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 • Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, l-7163 • John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 • Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, l-7336 • Ann E. Kleva, Health Services, 1-8286 South Bend Community Resources: • Women's Care Center: 234-0363 • Catholic Charities: 234-3111  

r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, February 2, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
HENRI ARNOLD ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS JUMBLE

JOCKULAR 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrton 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one 
letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
THACC ~ 
I I r [] 
1Cl200G Tnbune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ECTAN 
I I I 

CROISSANTWORLD 
BYSUHv 

www.jumble.com 
LUCASE 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
I I I 
Answer: 

IN"[ I I I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: BALKY QUEER MOSQUE HOOKEDYesterday's Answer: Buying an umbrella in a rainstorm left him ­
"SOAKED" 




CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Inscrutable one 64 Designer 1 Cut closely 35 Rate Geoffrey 6 1970 Neil (perform­65 Recipe abbr. 
Diamond hit perfectly) 66 Long baths 11 " . Adieux,'' 36 Quote, part 3 67 Isn't serious a Beethoven 41 Villa __, gold­51-Across 
mining center in DOWN14 Dog-_ 19th-century 
1 In stitches15 Conundrum Georgia 
2 "Oh, yeah,16 Four-time 42 Feeling that 
that's funny"Japanese prime makes you go 3 Play stationsminister "hmm" 4 Pertaining to17 Start of a quote 43 Appliance brand blood vesselsby jazz legend 45 Tennis ace 
Miles Davis 5 Big name in ice
Shriver cream19 Unlikely to raise 

46 Some wampum 

6 Side lineone's hand in 
51 See 11-Across

class 7 Alternative to a 
53 End, after all is

20 Prefix with Twinkie 
said and done

technology 8 "Beauty _ the 54 Quote, part 4
21 Quote, part 2 eye ... " 
23 They may be 58 Bora caves 9 "Unhand me!" part of a moving 59 Ewe, for one 10 Swinging set experience 60 End of the quote 11 Heed 
25 Some people at 62 "Thimble 12 Means of 
nude beaches 
Theatre" name computer27 So yesterday networking
63 _Bay,28 -Cat Philippines (site 13 sauce 31 Medicinal shrub of 1944 fighting) 18 They may follow 
bee stings ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 22 City in upstate New York 24 "-,-, we forget 
26 Court-appointed psychiatrist's ruling 
28 Pen filler 29 Martial arts 
expert 30 Wee hour 33 Third degree, 
often 34 Super Bowl in which the Giants beat the Bills 
THE OBSERVER 

WILL SHORI'Z 

36 Nest eggs,  40 Part of the back  52 "Are not!"  
briefly  of an orchestra  response  
37 Hollywood's  44 Web sites  53 Hallucinogen  
Dalton and Hutton 38 Good samaritan's  47 Admission 48 Some desert homes  55 Taj Mahal site 56 Nut case 57 Forever and a day  
assurance  49 Historian Will  59 Martini guzzler  
39 Yemen's  50 Ground  61 Kind of case, in  
capital  breakers  gram.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, ny1imes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: ny1imes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make cheeks payable to: and mail to: · 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Lola Forshcrg, 7; Lee Thompson Young, 
22; Lisa Marie Presley, 38; Pauly Shore, 38 
Happy Birthday: The sooner you arc upfrorll ahout who you an~. what you arc 
capahle of doing and how much effort you arc willing to put into your future, the 
sooner you will he successful. You have what it takes hut stubhornncss must he put 
aside if you want to excel. Your number~ arc CJ, 14. 16, 29. 35,44 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Very little will he out in the open. K~~p your wit~ 
about you and focus more on what you arc doing for othc". Keep your reputation 
as stellar as possihlc so that no one can put you down or complain. •** 
TAllRUS (April 20-May 201: Tak~ a very secretive approach to everything you 
do and you will he able to acl,nmplish so mud1 more. A new partnership willlx· 
illy hut that shouldn't stop you from gelling to know this person lll'llcr. U** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 201: An older individual can have a profound impaL1 on 
your lite today. especially in your future plan,. Emotional matters will only get in 
the way of discovering what you are tnlly capable of doing. Be totally prufessional 
and straightforward. ** 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): There is plenty happening around you so respond 
accordingly. Love is in the stars--make a point of spending time with that spcdal 
person. If you arc single, ynu'll meet someone new. Be careful if traveling. **••• 
LEO (,Jut)· 23-Aug. 22): Travel, trying new things and expanding ynur interests 
should all he penciled in today. A partnership will take on a new llavor hut be sure 
it's going in a direction suitable to your future plans. Anger will gel you nowhere. 
*** 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Open up new doors that will lead loa more chalk'nging and interesting future. Learning something new will hdp you determine what you might enjoy doing. Don't mince words with someom~ who has far more knowledge. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Look at the big picture and you will get some creative 
ideas for making financial gains. Hold on to ownership or position yourself well 
with partnc". Home improvements will cost hut will raise the value of your property. 
*** 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-NO\', 21 ): Focus on the creative and don'tlct snide remarks hy those you usually trust stop you from I(JIIowing through with what you want to do. A love connection looks promising. Leave some lime for intimacy in the evening hours. ***** ,_ 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21): Everything is beginning to take shape and the chance to really get into what you want to do is apparent. Talks will lead tn SOnll' interesting proposals. Don't let your emotions interfere with what you arc trying lo accomplish. •• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): You can make your point and gel things done today that will shape what happens to you in the future. Make your comments count and don't he afraid to he a little hit different. Take charge and try something new. 
**** 

AQliARiliS (.}an. 20-Feb. 18): Stick to what you know and don't try to convince people that you know more. ll will be stkking to things. not embellishing or taking on loo much that will make thl' difference. Concentrate on projects that involvl' your community. *** PISCES (lleb. 19-Mareh 20): You will enhance your n•putation if you find solutions to prohlcms that crop up. Someone you do husiness with may try to take advantugc of you. Keep your money in a safe place and don't expect anything liu nothing. *** Birthday Baby: You are creative, intuitive and secretive. You arc passionate and must he engaged in what you arc doing in order to do it welL Y<JU can he tl1e hcst at whatever drives you the most. 
Eugenia's Web s;tes: astroad•·ict•.cvmfvrfun, eugellialast.comjOr con:fid(•mial ,·rmsullations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name 
--------------------------------------~-------------------­
Address _____________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
r-------------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, February 2, 2006 
page 28 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Weis inks top-five recruiting class 
Irish coach signs 27 high school standouts for next year's class 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
A lot has changed since last year's Feb. 2 signing day when then-new Irish head coach Charlie Weis, in Jacksonville for the SupBr Bowl, announced via videocon­fBrence the See Also signing of his first 15 Notre "Signed and 
Dame rec-Delivered" ruits. Wedn­esday, after Irish Insider 
his first full year of recr­uiting, Weis announced the signing of 27 of the country's top high school players -a class many have ranked among the top five in the nation. 
All of the players expected to sign with the Irish did on Wednesday, making Weis' day a little easier. 
"This was a no sweat day," 
see RECRUITS/page 26 


t. 
.........
· 

Irish coach Charlie Weis addresses the media on national signing day Wednesday. Weis signed 27 top high school prospects from around the U.S.-the No.5 class in the country. 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles pull off tough MIAA-win 
Saint Mary's defeats Olivet 74-66; takes 1Oth game of season 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's held off a late rush by Olivet to pull a huge MIAA upset Wednesday, win­ning 74-66 and improving to 10-11 overall and 8-4 in the MIAA. 
It was the third win in a row for the Belles, who had lost to Olivet 92-55 in their first meet­ing of the season. 
After falling behind 11-4 in the first three minutes, Saint Mary's took the lead and con­trolled the tempo for the remainder of the contest. The Belles switched to a 1:2-2 zone following their rocky start ­frustrating Olivet in the process. 
see OLIVET/page 25 
HOCKEY 

Walsh leads on rink and in locker roo111 
Goalie's contribution extends beyond his position on the ice 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Wri rer 
Ask any Notre Dame hockey player or coach about Rory Walsh and they'll give you a smile and a laugh before praising him. 
The senior Irish goal­tender and locker room personality from Milton, Mass. has played a backup role in the 

crease for Walsh most of his college career, but on and off the ice Walsh's upbeat charac­ter is unmatched. "He's always positive and never really negative -you 

never really see him have a bad day," freshman goalie Jordan Pearce said. "He always has a smile on his face or cracks some jokes." 
Pearce says he and Walsh have a non-competitive rela­tionship on the ice -each just wishes the best for the other's game -and that Walsh's absence next season will be a downer due to the color he brings to the locker room and attitude he brings to the game. 
"Sometimes you get to the rink and you might not be having the best practice and you look over and you see Rory trying his best, giving his all, and it's motivation," Pearce said. 
Walsh recognizes when it comes to game time, everyone needs to focus their efforts towards a successful game. But in the down time he loves to kid his teammates for any­thing from on-ice performanc­
see WALSH/page 26 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish fall in familiar fashion 
Quinn misses runner with time running out and team loses by one 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
Irish guard Chris Quinn missed a game-winning run­ner as time expired and Notre Dame fell 71-70 to West Virginia Wednesday night in Morgantown. The Irish have lost seven Big East games by a combined 23 points this sea­son. 
Quinn caught the inbounds pass with 3.4 seconds left and drove towards the basket. The Irish guard released a shot, leaning into West Virginia for­ward Kevin Pittsnogle, but no foul was called. 
"That's the guy we wanted taking the shot," Irish coach Mike Brey told the Associated Press after the game. "He made all the plays for us, and he wanted the ball again. But we're just not as old as some of the teams that have come in here and won." 

AP West Virginia guard Mike Gansey, middle, drives past Notre Dame guard Colin Falls, left, and forward Torin Francis Wednesday. 
Quinn cut the lead to one point on a 3-pointer out of a Notre Dame timeout with less than 50 seconds remaining. 
West Virginia guard Johannes Herber drove to the basket but missed a layup that would have made it a 3-point game. 
Pittsnogle led West Virginia with 22 points and guard Mike Gansey added 13 points in the win. 
West Virginia got out to a quick lead, leading by double digits for most of the first half. But like many of Notre Dame's games as of late -the Irish 
see IRISH/page 25 


SUPER BOWl XL
NCAA BASKETBAll 
NCAA BASKETBAll 
NFL 
NBA 
NBA 
LLI 
Eagles quarterback

Seattle is getting 
Suns 102 
Rockets 86
u Duke 83 
Texas 66 
Donovan McNabb calls 

respect after years of 
Celtics 94 

<. 1--z Boston College 81 
Missouri 53 
Bucks 84 


being an outsider in the 
former teammate Terrell 

Paul Pierce scored 33
P.J. Tucker scored 20 
Tracy McGrady was

::5 J.J. Redick scored 28 
Owens' comments a

NFL playoffs. 
points in the second half 
points and the No. 2 
points and grabbed 11 
held in check with 22 
"black-on-black" crime. 

to give Boston a chance,
= 
Blue Devils held on for 
rebounds in the 
points in the Houston
< 
the win. 
Longhorns win. 

but Phoenix held on. 
win. 
!; 

page 16
page 25 
page 25 

page 22 
page 20 
page 16 

.. 



