
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 56 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17.2006 
Play reveals prevalence of assault 

By EILEEN DUFFY 
Assistant News Editor 
While it didn't boast the inter­national scope of "The Vagina Monologues," cast members and viewers of the Notre Dame-specif­ic "Loyal Daughters" say the play has increased awareness on the issue of sexual assault and rape at the University, and has the potential to break the reigning "culture of silence" often viewed as surrounding such issues at Notre Dame. 
The controversial nature of "The Vagina Monologues" tended to turn off viewers at Notre Dame, said Madison Liddy, who directed both "Daughters" and last spring's production of the "Monologues." 
"One of the biggest critiques we got was that 'The Vagina Monologues' isn't really applica­ble to Notre Dame students," she said. "It's a very liberal, left-wing way to look at things. Part of me agrees, part of me disagrees : .. But at the same time, [playwright Emily Weisbecker] and I wanted a way for people to talk about sexu­ality and sexual violence without feeling like they're in the wrong place." 
Feminist Voice member Stephanie Brauer said the inde­pendent nature of "Loyal Daughters" might help it succeed. 
"I think it's more positively viewed [than 'Monologues'] on campus, because it doesn't have direct association with ['Monologues' playwright] Eve Ensler, who is a loaded figure in and of herself," she said. 
And "Loyal Daughters," Liddy said, includes a broader scope of values -like the skit called 
see PLAY/page 6 

Sisters lead Saint Mary's through the years 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
When the Sisters of the Congregation of the Holy Cross founded Saint Mary's in 1844, they could hardly have fathomed what the College would be like in the year 2006. 
For the sisters at Saint Mary's­the first college the international Congregation established in the United States -looking 162 years into the future may have seemed like a challenge, but the decades passed quickly. Intense construc­tion, dedicated educators and unrealized plans to become a co­educational institution marked eras of the College's diverse histo­ry. But one thiHg has remained constant: the Sisters of the Congregation of the Holy Cross' unique presence on campus, guid­ing and influencing Saint Mary's. 
Congregation President Sister Joy O'Grady said what began as a "family business" of sisters who traveled to Notre Dame, Ind. from Bertrand, Mich. to educate women has flourished into one of the nation's premier sites of higher education and a retirement home for Sisters who have completed their international work. 
Over the years the Sisters' lead­ership positions at the College have dwindled, but they have not compromised their stake in assur­ing that the "excellence of the [Catholic] Church is maintained and fostered within a holistic edu­cation," O'Grady said. 
see HISTORYIpage 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Cell phone 
•


service cut short 
Some students cite calling interruptions 
By JOHN TIERNEY 
News Writer 
If the cellular phone is a college student's lifeline, a lot of the Notre Dame com­munity was left drowning in the rain Thursday. 
Many students complained of poor cell phone service throughout the day. Calls that were dialed never connected, and many connected calls were dropped after just 10 to 15 seconds, some students said. Text messaging func­tions, however, did not seem to be impaired. 

The day of choppy service for many major carriers left students frustrated and some blamed the poor service on the day's steady rain. But Dewitt Latimer, chief technol­, ~ ogy officer in the Office of 
j 
Information Technologies, I 

•
said cell phone service is ' ; 1 
' 
usually not affected by the weather. I "There is no reason to 

1
believe that the rain or the clouds would have interfered with the antennas," he said. 
By Thursday evening, freshman Mike Kelly, a Verizon customer, said he was frustrated almost to the point of destroying his phone. 
"I haven't been able to make a call all day," Kelly said. "I was about to throw my phone into a puddle 'cause I thought it was just 
see SERVICE/page 3 


Bookstore prepares for last game 
Christmas decorations go up in Hammes as holiday season arrives 
By LAURAWILCZEK 
News Writer 
When thousands of fans descend upon Notre Dame's campus for fall football games, they come to cheer the Irish on to victory, listen to the band play and take a pic­ture in front of Touchdown Jesus. 
And many leave with cam­pus with a piece of Irish mer­chandise to remember their weekend by. 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore is packed every weekend with alumni, fans and students eager to pur­chase a Notre Dame souvenir, and bookstore management 
see HAMMES/page 8 


McCarthy cracks jokes, gives illlportant tips 
By LAURA BAUMGARTNER 
News Writer 
Public service announcements often go unnoticed, but when retired Indiana State Police· Officer Tim McCarthy comes on the PA system at Notre Dame Stadium, his standard "May I have your attention, please" is greeted with a cheer before the crowd falls silent so they can hear the safety warning and joke that follows. 
At the end of each third quar­ter, McCarthy relays an often­humorous cautionary message to fans that's become a staple after 46 years. But in the begin­ning, he said, he would simply remind fans to be alert on the roads as they returned home. 

"I was promoted to sergeant of safety education -now called a public information offi­cer -and inherited the assign­ment from the troopers that did it before me," McCarthy said. "But I was the one who started using the quip or joke line because when I started giving [the announcements] straight and formal, no one paid atten­tion to them." 
McCarthy's first stint as a foot­ball personality was at the sec­ond-to-last home game in 1960. 
"We were having a lot of traf­fic trouble at that time," he said. "So the next year I thought I'd try something a friend, who was a Chicago policeman with a safety education assignment, 
see 0 FFICER/p~ge 8 page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Owens and 'Little T' 
I would like to preface this by say­ing that it will be the first and last time I will ever make any addition to the most over-publicized athlete in the history of sports. I apologize, but this one was D M h 
just too hard to an urp Y let go. 
Sports
Two days ago a 
Production 

new series of 
Editor

children's books aimed at provid­ing good role models for America's youth was released by Terrell Owens. 
The story line follows a young ... wait, what? 
Terrell Owens, the same man who once pulled a Sharpie out of his sock after scoring a touchdown, will now be signing books for kinder­garten kids? 
Believe it or not, it's true. BenBella Books has signed the Cowboys' wide receiver to deliver a series of illustrated stories that will teach children lessons that T.O. has apparently taken all of his 32 years to fully grasp. 
Owens started drumming up the idea in his rookie season while with the 49ers but needed to do some additional research before he felt he was ready to begin the writing process. 
The first set of books are titled "Little T Learns to Share," "Little T Learns What Not to Say" and "Little T Learns to Apologize" -honestly, this isn't a joke. Humor has it that Owens is currently working on the fourth installment which will be called "Little T Learns about Painkillers," a piece that is sure to render those annoying childproof pill bottles obsolete. (Okay, so maybe that one was a little bit of a joke, but not too far of a stretch.) 
Little T's lessons in the future may also include, but are certainly not limited to: enjoying the outdoors (maybe with a few driveway crunch­es and curls), playing well with oth­ers Uust not on the sidelines) and getting a good night's rest (especial­ly in the middle of offensive team meetings). 
Owens is currently partnered up with college friend Courtney Parker and illustrator Todd Harris in the project, but once this craze takes off, everyone is sure to want a piece of the action-Keyshawn Johnson, Dennis Rodman ... they are even talking with O.J. about a Halloween special. 
It's only a matter of time before Drew Rosenhaus manages to wiggle his way into the series as well. Perhaps as the evil money-grubbing Dr. Drew whose negative influence Little T has to overcome to learn his lesson. Hey, anything to make an extra buck, right Drew? 
With all of the wonderful chil­dren's literature around today-Dr. Seuss, Roald Dahl, Stephen King ­why would anyone ever consider having their own flesh and blood rais.ed by such a monster? 
It's really tough to say, all I know is that this avid reader will be stick­ing with Clifford. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd. edu The views· expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, November 17, 2006 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO'S TfJUGHER, THE )EDIS OR THE HOGWARTS GANG? 







Nick Caprino Dan D'Amore Jim Harig John Leahy Carl Andersen Steve Brennan 
sophomore sophomore sophomore sophomore sophomore sophomore Morrissey Morrissey Morrissey Morrissey Morrissey Morrissey 
"Jedi because 'The Jedis, "Da Bears. " "Uh ... I'm way "No, he's really "With or with­
the power to because I've too coolfor destroy a never heard of science fiction. " planet is a female Jedi." 
insignificant next to the power ofthe Force.'' 


DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer 

Staff members Steve Mall, left, and Kenny Tschida from the University Maintenance Department mount the Christmas light-decorated 0 on O'Neill Hall Thursday afternoon. 
OFFBEAT 

'Grape Guy' catches 116 grapes in mouth 
SYDNEY, Australia -An American man caught 116 tossed grapes in his mouth in three minutes in what he hopes will become a new Guinness World Record, his publicity team said Thursday. 
Steve "the Grape Guy" Spalding, 44, of Dallas, Texas also set a personal record for endurance grape catching, using his mouth to catch 1,203 grapes thrown from a distance of 15 feet over half an hour, according to publicist Deanna Brown. 
No Guinness World Records officials were pres­ent at Spalding's grape-gob­bling attempt, carried out Thursday in Australia over­looking Sydney's iconic Opera House. 
Toys for tots agrees to take Jesus doll 
LOS ANGELES -The Marine Reserves' Toys for Tots program has decided to accept a donation of Bible­quoting Jesus dolls, revers­ing course after saying ear­lier this week that it couldn't take them. 
"The talking Jesus doll issue has been resolved," the organization announced on its Web site Wednesday. "Toys for Tots has found appropriate places for these items. We have notified the donor of our willingness to handle this transaction." 
The short note on the Web site did not explain what it would do with the dolls. 
Earlier this week, the pro­gram declined a suburban Los Angeles company's offer to donate 4,000 of the foot­tall talking dolls. The bat­tery-powered Jesus is one of several Bible-based dolls manufactured by one2believe, a division of the Valencia-based Beverly Hills Teddy Bear Co. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY c:: 
IJ.I 
:::1: 
!;;: 
IJ.I 
3: 
..I 
<C 
(,) 


..1 0 HIGH 43 HIGH 40 HIGH 45 HIGH 42 LOW 28 LOW 26 LOW 30 LOW 27 
not." out 
Dumbledore? Because Dumbledore's {awesome]. " 
IN BRIEF 
The marching band will conduct its traditional "step­off" today at 4:30 p.m., heading from the front of the Main Building through cam­pus to its practice in the Joyce Center parking lot. 
The pep rally will take place in the Joyce Center Arena at 6 p.m. Students with identification may enter from 5:15 to 5:45 p.m. through Gate 11, and the general public may enter through Gate 8 at 5:45 p.m. 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team will take on Colorado in the third round of the NCAA Tournament tonight at 7:30 p.m., at Alumni Field. Call (574) 631-7356 for ticket informa­tion. 
Asian Allure 2006: Illumination will take place tonight at 8 p.m. at Washington Hall. The show is open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross College students. Tickets are $7 at the LaFortune Box Office -which can be reached at (574) 631-8128 -and $10 at the door. 
The Notre Dame and U.S. Military Academy Glee Clubs will present a joint concert at 8:30 p.m. in Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. Tickets are $8 for the general public, $6 for faculty/staff members, $5 for seniors and $3 for all students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 45 HIGH 55 LOW 35 LOW 40 
Atlanta 55 I 37 Boston 60 I 58 Chicago 45 I 30 Denver 56 I 28 Houston 74 I 38 Los Angeles 80 I 56 Minneapolis 43 I 28 New York 62 I 57 Philadelphia 59 I 53 Phoenix 83 I 52 Seattle 50 I 41 St. Louis 53 I 45 Tampa 70 I 55 Washington 58 I 50 
Jj  
NOVEMBffi 13-17-UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME lEW SPONSORS  
Office of the President; Office of International Studies; Office of the Dean,  
ltmRMllOtW  College of Arts and Letters; Office of the Dean, Mendoza College of Business; Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies; Kellogg Institute for International  
EOIACATIOVI  Studies; Nanovic Institute for European Studies; Campus Ministries; Department of Film, Theatre & Television; Career Center; Department of East Asian  
......... WEEK  Languages & Literatures; Department of Romance Languages and Literatures; Department of German & Russian; International Student Services & Activities;  
20  Center for Social Concerns; Asian American Society; Fischer-O'Hara Grace Residences; Caribbean Working Group; Mendoza College of Business; Notre Dame Food Services; DeBartolo Performing Arts Center; Student International  
06  Business Council; Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies; Department of Africana Studies; Department of History; Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies along with Student Residence Halls and Cultural Clubs,  
and Student Government  

r-------------------------------------­
Friday, November 17, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Paraguayan senator lectures on failures of govern111ent 
said. "I was on the phone for ed problems then. Until he unless the carrier knows ties with their service today, 15 minutes this afterno.on and makes that call, Latimer said about it. If no one knows Cingular customers did not.
Service 
I didn't have that he about the problem, nothing Notre Dame is currently in any problems "will not can be done." negotiations with other major
continued from page 1 
at all." "We haven ,t signed any speculate Although some students are cellular carriers to install my phone that wasn't work­Latimer, who on the nervous that poor service will antennas on campus.
contracts yet, but there 
ing." was away from nature of continue this weekend with a "We are in negotiation with After unsuccessful attempts, his office all are serious the prob-football game and predictions all vendors," Latimer said. Kelly finally connected his day Thursday, conversations underway lem and of more rain, Latimer does "We haven't signed any con­call. did not receive will not not think cell phones should tracts yet, but there are seri­
with some carriers.,,
"Yes! 53 seconds -that's notification jump to be affected. ous conversations underway my record!" he said. "I had to from carriers hasty con­"There is no reason why with some carriers." talk fast so I wouldn't get cut that coverage Dewitt Latimer clusions." service should at all be Latimer declined comment off, but I made it." was inconsis­chief technology officer "All stu­affected by the weather," he on the identity of the carriers 
Some students, like fresh­tent. He has a dents can said. currently in discussions with
Office of Information 
man Ruben Saldana, were a standard call do when Service providers Verizon the University, citing ongoing
Technologies
little more fortunate with with a repre­the service and Cingular currently have negotiations. their service. sentative from is bad is stealth antennas located on "I have Sprint and my serv­major carriers every Friday notify their carrier," Latimer campus. Although Verizon Contact John Tierney at ice was fine today," Saldana and will inquire about report-said. "We won't know about it customers reported difficul-jtiernel @nd.edu 
SINCERE THANKS TO ALL WHO SPONSORED AND PARTICIPATED IN THIS YEAR'S lEW EVENTS! FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17 
Asian American Association's Asian Allure "Illumination" 
.. 

Spm; Washington Hall 
Fairly-Traded gifts Event, featuring handcrafts from developing countries produced for Ten Thousand Villages 
Friday, 1 Oam-4pm; Atrium, Mendoza College of Business FOR EVENT DETAILS AND CO NT ACTS: www.nd.edu/-issaiiEW.htm 
Country has little supportfor democracy 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT 
News Writer 
Diego Abente Brun, former Paraguayan senator and min­ister of Justice and Labour, spoke Thursday at the Hesburgh Center on the chal­lenges facing Paraguayan democracy. 
Throughout his lecture enti­tled "Between a Rock and a Hard Place: Dilemmas of a Small Latin American Democracy," Abente criticized the state of Paraguay's demo­cratic government and explained the various chal­lenges that need to be over­come to bring Paraguay to the level of the most developed Latin American nations ­Argentina, Chile and Brazil. 
Abente introduced his lec­ture with a brief history of modern democracy in Latin America, saying that by the 1980s and 90s, most nations were moving away from the Marxist foundations of their democratic system and adopt­ing a more liberal system. Paraguay has a legislature with a proportional system of representation and direct elections, similar to the U.S. House of Representatives, he said. 
Institutions may appear democratic from the outside, Abente warned, but "after decades of democracy [in the region!, evaluations of the performance of Latin American democracies show there is much to be desired." 
Abente then posed a contro­versial question: Are the dem­ocratic regimes of the least successful Latin American countries Paraguay, Ecuador and Bolivia -really better for the people than the authoritarian regimes they replaced? 
Paraguay has the worst record of economic develop­ment, government effective­ness and ability to preserve the rule of law in Latin America. It has the highest gap between the "extremely poor" class and the "poor" class in the region, Abente said, as well as the lowest support for democracy. 
The reason why Paraguay is so unsuccessful, Abente said, lies in the nature of its demo­cratic system. Paraguay has always had universal suffrage, he said, so political parties attempt to win over poor vot­ers by providing jobs to mem­bers of the most powerful families, who could in turn influence the votes of the poor economic classes. 
Abente provided a shocking statistic: in 2005, 76 percent of all tax money collected by the Paraguayan government was used to pay government employees. Abente explained this as a result of party poli­tics. 
"Even if I were a senator from the opposition party that may be opposed to govern­ment corruption," he said. "I would need the government to allow me to employ people from my district to ensure I am re-elected." 
The Paraguayan government can never rule with legitimacy, Abente said, because Paraguayan society has become an "invertebrate." Citizens expect their govern­ment to reward them with jobs and food, and there is no desire for economic growth or change in the government. 
Paraguay is between "a rock and a hard place," Abente said, because Paraguay's problems are caused by its democratic system, and democracy itself cannot pro­vide the answer. 
Contact John-Panl Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 17, 2006 
not "personally encounter con­cerns expressed" about the
History 
construction, she said feels the continued from page 1 potential problems, which exist within any project, do not out­
The Sisters have gone from weigh the benefits. dominating the College's presi­She said this project will dential and professor positions "benefit the whole community" to currently maintaining lead­-one of the Congregation's ership roles behind the scenes most noble aspirations. as six or seven members of the "The relationship between Board of Trustees. the college we founded so 
And while the majority of many years ago and the con­Saint Mary's administration is gregation is closely connective laypersons, Sisters continue to and collaborative," O'Grady fill the positions of vice presi­said. "We see the changing dent for mission, professors, needs of our time ... and con­director of space planning and tinue to commit to issues in the assistant to the vice president Church, world and society." for mission. O'Grady said the Sisters have 
The majority of the watched the College greatly Congregation, however, is con­change over the years, and stantly present at Saint Mary's. have worked to grow and Nearly 200 sisters call the adapt to the changes -issues College's campus "home." that, regardless of the out-With a median come, ·have age of 74, they "sustained 
are over 50 !the Sisters']
"My hope is the College 
years older significant 
than the 1,500 will continue to grow influence 
members of and thrive. We must [they] wish to the student maintain in
continue the vibrancy 
body, but they the College." 
and excellence and
still play a vital The two role within the outreach beyond [Saint entities' close College com­relationship
Mary,s]. It is this sense 
munity. has main­
ofservice that will 
They reside tained and in three loca­continue to allow us to fostered Saint tions Mary's
grow.

Augusta Hall, Catholic iden­Saint Mary's tity, both Convent and 
Sr. Joy O'Grady modern and Rosary Hall -president historical. in the south­Sisters of the Holy Cross "Now that 
west corner of [Sister campus. The O'Grady] and Sisters' portion I also have a of the land-stake exceeds the professional relationship, our 500 acres that belong to the friendship enables us to talk College. easily and openly about mutual 
As a separate entity, the concerns," Mooney said. "She Congregation owns the vast and I have regular meetings majority of woodlands that run and we make every attempt to along the eastbound side of cooperate and enhance each Interstate 80-90, the nature other's mission." trails and most of the land in O'Grady said this relationship the front of Saint Mary's along also includes the students ­Route 31/33. It also leases the the vital link in pursuing and Belles' athletic fields to the maintaining Saint Mary's mis­College. sion. 
This unique ownership of the Students are welcome to land bordering Saint Mary's engage in this "ideas gives the Congregation com­exchange," O'Grady said, and plete jurisdiction of its uses. they often interact with sisters Most notably, the Congregation through the "Friends with entered into an agreement ear­Sisters Program" that pairs lier this year with the Holladay students with Sisters to foster a Corporation to build a Hilton relationship through religious Garden Inn and conference and social events. center, set to open before the Although the Congregation 2007 football season, on the plays a large role in the northeast corner of campus. College's decision-making 
The decision to lease the land for the construction of this hotel and conference center, which took much of the student body by surprise in August 2006, was deemed a "formal business relation" by O'Grady. 
"Negotiations were developed for some time," she said, "and we kept the College apprised the whole [time]." 
As the final decisions of the time and location of the con­struction were made, O'Grady and College President Carol Ann Mooney were engaged in close and careful consideration -a quintessential example of the working relationship between Saint Mary's and its sponsor, The Congregation. 
Mooney, who has been friends with O'Grady for "many years," said the construction of the Hilton Garden Inn is the result of the Sisters' role as "astute and careful financial planners" as they "find addi­tional ways to bring in rev­enue" due to the shrinking number of their full-time employees in the United States. 
"Utilization of their land holdings is one of the ways that they can do that," she said. 
While O'Grady said she did process, O'Grady said it is important to remember they "want to be supportive and col­laborative." 
"It is our heritage too," she said. "We have watched this school grow, and we are proud of this high quality school." 
The student body has come to recognize this through their recent appreciation for the his­tory of the College displayed during the first ever "Heritage Week" last January. 
Student body presidrmt Susan Mcllduff said the student gov­ernment-sponsored week, which will take place again during the week of Jan. 22, 2007, has "contributed to stu­dents' understanding of the Congregations' llistory." 
Mcllduff said one of Heritage Week's highlights was "the family style dinner ... ]where], the leadership of the Congregation as well as approximately 20 other sisters who have influenced the College were invited to come and share their stories" While plans are in the works to incorporate even more under­standing about the Congregation's influence on the College during this year's Heritage Week, Mooney said the positive influence inquisi­tive students had on the Sisters was impressive. 
"The Sisters were thrilled with the student interest in their heritage last year," Mooney said. 

HAPPY#22 BIRTHDAY BRIAN DOLAN 




ARCHIE '08 
LOVE, MOM, DAD, KEVIN, ERIN AND CARRIE 
"It truly is a remarkable story of strong, brave women. I am proud to work closely with them to enhance the future for both Saint Mary's College and the Sisters of the Holy Cross." 
As for O'Grady, her hopes for the future mirror those of the majority of the College commu­nity. 
"My hope is the College will continue to grow and thrive," she said. 
"We must continue the vibrancy and excellence and outreach beyond [Saint Mary's]. It is this sense of serv­ice that will continue to allow us to grow." 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Friday, November 17, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Interior Ministry arrests Sunni leader 
BAGHDAD -The Shiite-led Interior Ministry issued an arrest warrant Thursday for the top leader of the coun­try's Sunni minority -a move certain to inflame already raging sectarian violence in Iraq. 
Interior Minister Jawad al-Bolani, a Shiite, announced on state television that Harith al-Dhari was wanted for inciting terrorism and violence among the Iraqi people. 
Al-Dhari, head of the influential Sunni Association of Muslim Scholars, is an extreme hard-liner who recently mocked a government offer of reconciliation in return for abandoning the insurgency. But the move against him threatens to drive many moderate Sunnis out of the political system. 
Already, moderate Sunnis have been threatening for weeks to leave the govern­ment and take up arms. If that happens, it would likely lead to a full-fledged civil war and make it much harder for U.S. troops to withdraw from Iraq. 
Violent riots erupt in Tonga capital 
NUKU'ALOFA, Tonga-Police and troops early Friday took control of Tonga's capital, where a crowd of young people had gone on a rampage, setting fires, overturning cars and looting shops in the South Pacific kingdom. 
The violence erupted after crowds gathered in the capital, demanding that parliament pass democratic reforms before it ended its annual session Thursday. 
"There are number of burning buildings," including several housing businesses and the oflices of government ministries, said Tonga's Lord Chamberlain, the Honorable Filekepa. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

McCain calls for GOP refonn after loss 
WASHINGTON -Sen. John McCain, casting himself as the embodiment of the Republican Party's future in the vein of Ronald Reagan, said Thursday the GOP has lost its way and must return to "common-sense conservatism." 
"Though we suffered a tough defeat last week, we will recover if we learn our lesson well and once again offer Americans enlightened, effec­tive and principled leadership," the Arizona Republican said in a speech that laid out his vision for the party's path forward -and could set the tone for a potential presidential cam­paign. 
The same day he launched a committee to explore whether to run in 2008, McCain invoked the legacy of Reagan, who won the presidency four years after leading the rebirth of a dispirit­ed GOP following the Republican defeat in the 1976 presidential election. 

Soldier sentenced in Iraqi rape case 
FORT CAMPBELL, Ky. -A soldier was sen­tenced Thursday to 90 years in prison with the possibility of parole for conspiring to rape a 14­year-old Iraqi girl and kill her and her family. 
Spc. James P. Barker, one of four Fort Campbell soldiers accu..o;;ed in the March 12 rape and killings, pleaded guilty Wednesday and agreed to testify against the others to avoid the death penalty. 
"This court sentences you to be confined for the length of your natural life, with the eligibility of parole," said Lt. Col. Richard Anderson, the mili­tary judge presiding over the court-martial. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Semi chemical leak closes highway 
LOWELL, Ind. -A chemical leaking from a semitrailer at a truck stop led authorities to close a section of Interstate 65 in northwest­ern Indiana for several hours Thursday after five people complained of breathing prob­lems. 
Both the northbound and southbound lanes of the highway were closed for a 17-mile stretch about 20 miles south of Gary as a precaution about 10:30 a.m. CST as haz­ardous materials responders prepared to neutralize the chemical, sodium hydrosulfite, said Mike Higgins, a spokesman for the Lake County Sheriff's Department. 
ETHIOPIA 

Darfurpeacekeepingforce planned 
Annan, other world leaders do not set timetable; Sudan has reservations 
Associated Press 
ADDIS ABABA -Affican, Arab, European and U.N. leaders agreed in principle Thursday to a joint African Union-United Nations peace­keeping force for Sudan's Darfur region. 
The force could be as large as 27,000, including the existing 7 ,000-member AU peacekeeping force in Darfur, but the leaders did not lay out a timetable for the force to begin work part­ly because Sudan had some reservations. 
Sudan did not give the plan its unreserved approval because officials at Thursday's meeting needed to consult with their superi­ors, the country's U.N. ambassador, Abdul Mahmoud Abdelhaleem, said. 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan said the addition­al personnel could include as many as 17,000 soldiers and 3,000 police officers. 
A timetable for the expanded force to begin work was not announced partly because Sudan retained some reservations, including the question of who would be in charge. 
"The next step is for the 

U.N. and AU to call a meet­ing of the non-signatories (of the Darfur Peace Agreement) ... and the government of Egypt, France and a half­Benn called the joint U.N.­in the vast, arid Darfur Sudan. It should take place dozen African countries. AU focus on Sudan "the best region, rebels from ethnic in the next couple of weeks The expansion of the exist­opportunity we have to bring African tribes took up arms to resolve outstanding issues ing AU force will take place this crisis to an end. In the against Sudan's Arab-domi­by the end of the year," in three phases, said Annan, mean time, we need an nated central government in Annan told reporters. who had wanted to try to effective cease-frre, with all 2003. Khartoum is accused 
A U.N. Security Council stop the bloodshed in Darfur the parties committing to of unleashing the janjaweed. resolution has called for U.N. before he leaves office on stop the fighting." The militiamen are accused peacekeepers to take over Jan. 1. In recent days, pro-govern­of many of the atrocities in a for the poorly equipped and An African Union Peace ment militia forces known as conflict that has killed some underfunded AU force, and Security Council meeting janjaweed have stepped up 200,000 people and chased which has been unable to will be held in the Republic attacks on villages in Darfur, 2.5 million from their homes. quell a war that has left of Congo on Nov. 24 during killing dozens of people, The conflict has destabi­more than 200,000 dead which Sudan is expected to international observers said lized a wide region that since 2003. But Sudan's gov­present its final views, Wednesday. In one raid, jan­includes parts of neighboring ernment has firmly opposed Annan said. jaweed militiamen -backed Chad and the Central African the takeover. The senior British govern­by government troops -Republic. The chaos has 
The agreement was ment representative at the forced children into a been exploited-by rebels announced at a meeting in meeting, International thatched hut, then set it from Sudan, Chad and the Ethiopia that brought togeth­Development Secretary ablaze, killing parents who Central African Republic, er senior officials from the Hilary Benn, called on the tried to rescue the children, and ethnic· violence mirror­AU, the Arab League, the Sudanese government to rebels said. ing attacks in Darfur has European Union, Sudan, the "accept the clear view of all After years of low-level been seen in Chad in recent United States, China, Russia, the others present." clashes over water and land weeks. 



Hoyer selected as majority leader 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Democrats embraced Rep. Nancy Pelosi as the first woman House speaker in his­tory on Thursday, then quickly snubbed her, selecting Steny Hoyer of Maryland as majority leader against her wishes. 
"Let the healing begin," Pelosi, D-Calif., said after Hoyer had eased past her preferred candi­date, Rep. John Murtha, a promi­nent opponent of the war in Iraq. The secret-ballot vote for Hoyer was 149-86. She was chosen by acclamation. 
Added Hoyer, a 25-year veteran of Congress: "The Republicans need to know, the president needs to know and the country needs to know our caucus is unified today." 
Hoyer, Murtha and several other Democrats predicted there would be no lingering effects from the bruising leadership campaign as the party looks ahead to taking control of the House in January after a dozen years in the minority. 
Not everyone sounded convinced, though. "It created these tensions that we now have to work on," said Rep. Jose Serrano of New York, a Hoyer supporter. 
Rep. Jim Moran, D-Va., who backed Murtha, said some mem­

hers or the rank-and-file had told both rival camps to count them as supporters. "We know who they are," he said, although he later added that many of them were law­makers whose victories on Nov. 7 gave Democrats their majority. 
"If they're freshmen, they get a pass on this one," he said. 
Democrats chose their leaders for the next two years as lawmakers in both houses labored to wrap up work for the expiring 109th Congress and look ahead to the llOth, which convenes on Jan. 4. 
House Republicans hold elections on Friday, with a two-way race for minority leader. 

even more striking [than 'The cast member of "Loyal that's not clear to people, both Vagina Monologues'1 because Daughters" who is involved in sexes think they need to get
Play 

it is a reflection of our cam­both Pillars and the "Men plastered to have fun and 
pus community," said student Against Violence" campaign, hook up. I don't know what
continued from page 1 

body president Lizzi Shappell, 90 percent of all rape and one play can do ... but this is "Forgiveness," in which a who works at the Gender sexual assault incidents a real problem." man who has decided to save Relations Center and headed reported nationwide involved Bederman emphasized the himself for marriage falls in up Student Senate's Sexual alcohol. presence of sexual assault at love with a woman who has Assault Awareness Week two "You can't educate on issues colleges nationwide -some­had sex. Through God's grace, years ago. "Sexual assault is of rape and sexual violence thing worsened by alcohol Liddy said, he comes to for­happening on campus." without bringing alcohol into abuse, she said, noting that in give her, and even re-baptizes History professor Gail the discussion," he said. studies from years past, Notre her as a born-again virgin in Bederman, who was deeply "Loyal Daughters" certainly Dame has been shown to have Saint Mary's Lake. involved in last spring's identified the alcohol issue. a bigger problem with binge 
The play does, however, "Monologues" debate, left lit­"The place of alcohol and drinking than other schools. include its fair share of sexual tle doubt on the matter, call­social life on this campus, But she said a "culture of assault and rape stories -ing sexual assault "an ongoing that's becoming elearer, and it silence" at Notre Dame only even more than "Monologues" problem" that will "remain an came up in the discussion deepens the problem. did -meaning the interviews ongoing problem for a long [Monday] night. ... I'm just not "There is a cultural problem did, as well. time." sure people understand that here -Student Activities 
"This play comes from sto­Alcohol complicates the having sex with someone too must assume nobody is having ries of Notre Dame students; already-touchy matter. drunk to understand is rape," sex, so they can't negotiate therefore I argue that it is According to John Corker, a Bederman said. "As long as uncomfortable positions on 
THE POWER TO GET A 



PHONE THAT ROCKS 
• TM

FUSIC by LG"' only from Sprint.
Phone and MPJ 
Bluetooth"' technology·

player in one. 

Built-in MP3 player with FM transmitter microSD external memory card 

$99.99 
Reg. $299.99 each. Save $150 instantly plus $50 mail-in rebate. 
·.y:;
'"'"'-,­

Plus get LG® portable speakers 


FREE 
reg. $58.65. While supplies last. 
Phone and free speaker offer requires activation of a new line of service on a$39.99 or higher service plan with a two-year agreement on each phone. 
..Rates exclude taxes & Sprint Fees (including USF charge of up to 2.26% that varies quarterly, cost recovery fees up to $2.83 per line, & state/local fees that vary by area). Sprint Fees are not taxes or gov't-req'd charges. 
Coverage not available everywhere. Available features & services will vary by phone/network. Nationwide Sprint PCS Network reaches over 250 million people. Offers not available in all mar­kets or retail locations. Add'l terms & restrictions apply. Subject to credit. See store or Sprint.com details. Up to $36 activation & $200 early termination fees apply per line. Deposit may be required. Instant Savings: Offer ends 12/31/06 or while supplies last. No cash back. Taxes excluded. Activation at time of purchase required. Mail-in Rebate: Requires purchase & activation by 12/31/06. Rebates cannot exceed purchase price. Taxes excluded. Line must be active 30 consecutive days. Allow B to 12 weeks for rebate. ©2006 Sprint Nextei. All rights reserved. Sprint, the ""Going Forward"logo, the NEXTEL name & logo, & other trademarks are trademarks of Sprint Nextei. SWEEPSTAKES: NO PURCHASE NECESSARY TO ENTER OR WIN. PURCHASE DOES NOT IMPROVE YOUR CHANCES OF WINNING. The Sprint "Money Talks" Sweepstakes begins 12:00,01 a.m CST on 10/23/06 and ends 11:59:59 p.m. CST on 12/10/06. Open only to legal U.S. residents of lA, ll, Ml, IN, OH, PA, TN and WV, 18 years of age or older. Void where prohibited by law. To enter: Visit a participating Sprint retail store, complete the official entry form ~nd drop in the entry box at the store or enter online at www.moneytalks/registertowin.com. limit one entry per per­son. Subject to full official rules available online at www.moneytalks/rules.com. Odds of winning are dependent upon number ofeligible entries received. Prizes: One (1) Grand Prize: $10,000 Cash. Value: $10,000. Seven (7) First Prizes: $1,000 Cash. Value, $1,000 each. All prizes will be awarded in the form of a check. Total Value of all prizes: $17,000. SPONSOR: iPCS Wireless, Inc., 1901 N. Roselle Rd., Schaumburg, ll60195. OPT-OUT: If you do not want to be contacted regarding IPCS Wireless Inc.'s, Products or services in the future, write to: Jill Moravec, The Ad Group 230 E. 2nd Street, Davenport. lA 52801. 
what constitutes consensual and nonconsensual sex .... They can't draw lines other than thumbs up or thumbs down, do it or just don't do anything." 
Other universities, she said, "are able to talk about issues, the gray areas. Because they do and can assume students are going to have extramarital sex, even promiscuous extra­marital sex, they can talk about shades of gray.... You can talk about this question of when something is consent and when something isn't con­sent. 
"I think at other schools they do that. but you can't here, because nobody's sup­posed to consent whether they're drunk or not." 
And students like Cassie Papak, also a cast member of "Loyal Daughters," say that silence exists even among friends at Notre Dame. 
"It's come up in discussions with girlfriends. They feel uncomfortable talking about sexual situations in general," she said. " ... It's more a fear of peer judgment than University action." 
Still, many in the campus community agree a discussion has been started that is breaking that silence. Senior Emily Kelley, who attended Wednesday night's perform­ance of "Loyal Daughters," said a few of her professors have breached the topic of sexual violence in classes this week. But victims of sexual assault and rape need more than just this play, Papak said. 
"It takes a lot more than a pep talk for someone to over­turn their world to expose that something like that hap­pened to them," she said. 
Ideally, Brauer said, there wouldn't be a need for plays like "Daughters" and "Monologues" at all. 
"The day we don't need events like this is the day is the day we've succeeded. It's the day when Notre Dame is a sexual assault-free, rape-free campus," she said. "That's obviously the goal." 
Whether "Monologues" will be performed remains to be seen, although Liddy said her involvement in another per­formance would prevent her from participating in "Monologues" -should it take place -this spring. Her main concern·, however, was fundraising for the event. 
For the past two years, "The Vagina Monologues" has been prohibited from fundraising, including charging for tickets, at Notre Dame. As proceeds are sent to the South Bend YWCA and the St. Joseph County SOS Rape Crisis Center (at an average of $8,000 per run of the "Monologues"). Liddy called the University's fundraising prohibition "insane." The free tickets do, though, allow more students to see the performance, she said. 
"It's kind of a catch-22," she said. 
Bederman, on the other hand, suggested that perhaps "Monologues" has run its course, at least for the time being. 
"It's my impression that's what's happening is different years, different groups of peo­ple say, "Oh, we need the 'Monologues' ... [but] it's not like the football schedule. Personally, I'm hoping we have a vacation from the 'Monologues' this year." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy I @nd.edu 

SPRINT STORES  
SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  STORE HOURS  
Martin's Plaza  Grape Rd. at Indian Ridge  Sunday ........ 12pm-Spm  
203S South Bend Ave.  South of the Mall  Mon.-Fri........ 10am·8pm  
574-277-7727  across from McDonald's  Sat............. 9am-7pm  
574-243-2100  
Se habla Espaiiol  


GET THIS CAMERA PHONE 
FREE, INSTANTL VI 
SCP-3100 by Sanyoe 
Offer requires activation of anew 
line of service with a2·year sub· 



Sprint> POWER UP~ 
scriber ·agreement. Reg. $179.99. After $179.99 instant savings. 


REGISTER TO WIN $10,000* 
Visit your local Sprint Store to register for a chance to win the $10,000 Money Talks Grand Prize or one of 25 $1,000 First Prizes. 
Sweepstakes ends 12/10/06. No purchase necessary. See store for complete sweepstakes rules. 
•Registration available at Sprint Stores or Preferred Retailer locations only. 
New, improved coverage in the South Bend area. 
Wireless service is only as good as the network it runs on. With new and improved coverage in South Bend, Niles, Granger and Laporte, 
now is a great time to experience the most complete, all-digital, wireless network in the nation reaching more than 250 million people.



T.ulll 
Friday, November 17, 2006 


MARKET RECAP 

Stocks  
Dow }ones  12,305.82  +54.11  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,746  164  1,509  2,744,087,380  


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 

NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  +0.43  +0.19  44.30  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +0.03  +0.0 I  22.33  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +0.55  +0.03  5.44  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  + 1.20  +0.35  29.47  
Treasuries  
I 0-YEAR NOTE  +0.87  +0.04  4.655  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.1 0  +0.005  4.955  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.81  +0.038  4.733  
5-YEARNOTE  +0.95  +0.044  4.669  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -2.50  56.26  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -2.10  621.70  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  + 1.35  91.00  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  118.1950  
EURO  0.7816  
POUND  0.5296  
CANADIAN$  1.1424  

IN BRIEF 
Social Security plan called 'off the table' 
WASHINGTON -The incoming chairman of the Senate Finance Committee said Thursday he wants to hold hearings on looming insol­vencies in the Medicare and Social Security programs but said President Bush's plan to partially privatize Social Security is dead. 
"Don't waste our time," said Democratic Sen. Max Baucus of Montana. "It's offthe table." 
He said the rising cost .of Medicare and other health costs is a priority for the committee, though he did not detail how the committee would approach those problems. He said he will hold "vigorous" hearings on the issue. 
Baucus said he will propose legislation to sim­plify the Medicare prescription drug program by streamlining the number of plans available and making it easier for people to choose one. 
Baucus, 64, has been on the committee for more than two decades and briefly was chair­man when Democrats took Senate control in 2001, the same year he collaborated with Bush on tax-cut legislation. The senator also sided with Republicans on a Medicare overhaul in 2003, a move that frustrated many in his party who felt the bill was a giveaway to drug compa­nies. 
He said the looming ins.olvency in the Medicare program is a more urgent problem than a similar fiscal crisis with Social Security. 


Nobel Prize-winning economist dies 
SAN FRANCISCO -Milton Friedman, a Nobel Prize-winning economist who cham­pioned individual freedom, influenced the economic policies of three presidents and befriended world leaders, died Thursday. He was 94. 
Friedman died in San Francisco, said Robert Fanger, a spokesman for the Milton and Rose D. Friedman Foundation in Indianapolis. He did not know the cause of death. 
"Milton Friedman revived the economics of liberty when it had been all but forgot­ten," said former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, one of the politicians and colleagues who lauded Friedman on Thursday. "He was an intellectual freedom fighter. Never was there a less dismal prac­titioner of a dismal science." 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS 
page 7 

Clear Channel agrees to buyout 
Offer of$18.7 billion, the third-largest in U.S. history, will make company private 
Associated Press 

SAN ANTONIO -Three weeks. 
That's how long it took radio giant Clear Channel Communications Inc. to ac­cept the third-largest buyout offer ever in the U.S., after announcing in late October that it was considering "strategic alternatives." 
And while the nation's biggest radio station opera­tor has left tqe door open a crack in case something bet­ter comes along, it agreed to an $18.7 billion offer from Thomas H. Lee Partners LLC and Bain Capital Partners LLC. 
In addition to paying $37.60 in cash for each Clear Channel share, the buyers will assume an addi­tional $8 billion in debt. 
Chief Executive Mark Mays said the time was right to take the company private because its stock was being undervalued by equity mar­kets. _'"We tried to figure out what would be a way out of that and obviously the pri­vate equity markets have a much different view," he said by phone. 
Mays said $37.60 was a "great price" for sharehold­ers and the private equity firms "think they got a great company and have a long­term view associated with it." close at $35.36 on the New regulatory filing that it does­the Mays stand to make in 
The transaction would be York Stock Exchange Thur­n't expect any senior man­the deal. Clear Channel said one of the biggest deals to sday after rising earlier to a agement changes or signifi­Thursday that three mem­take a company private, new 52-week high of $35.88. cant layoffs. bers of senior management excluding debt, and illustrat­The company has until Mark Mays will remain agreed to "significantly" re­ed the vast sums that buyout Dec. 7 to solicit competing CEO while Randall Mays, his duce payments that would specialists have been able to proposals. Another bid for brother, will stay on as chief be made on a change of con­assemble to acquire public Clear Channel had been financial officer. Their father trol. companies. expected from Providence Lowry Mays, the chairman, A Clear Channel spokes­
HCA Inc. shareholders on Equity Partners, the Black­will continue to have an woman declined to elabo­Thursday overwhelmingly stone Group and Kohlberg active role, the company rate. The Mays family owns approved a $21.3 billion Kravis Roberts & Co. said. Mark Mays said about 7 percent of the com­leveraged buyout -the sec­"Basically they are telling Thursday that may mean a pany. ond largest ever in the U.S. you that we have a firm offer "chairman emeritus" role Mark Mays said only that -that will take the nation's and a firm deal, but we are for his father. "we don't stand to gain any­No. 1 for-profit hospital not going to get locked into it "Clear Channel is an thing except what ... share­chain private. That deal is yet," said Frederick Moran, exceptional media franchise holders gain." the largest since the $25.1 a Boca Raton, Fla.-based that is well-positioned to James Goss, media and billion buyout of RJR analyst for Stanford Fin­grow thanks to the solid entertainment analyst for Nabisco Inc. in 1988, acc­ancial Group. foundation the Mays family Barrington Research, said ording to Thomson Fin­Clear Channel owns or has created," John Conn­the price of $37.60 was in ancial. operates 1,150 radio stations aughton, a managing direc­line with expectations. The 
San Antonio-based Clear and is the largest operator of tor at Bain Capital, said in a figure represents a 10.2 per­Channel's shares jumped radio stations in the country. statement. cent premium over shares' $1.24, or 3.6 percent, to The company said in a It's not yet clear how much closing price on Wednesday. 

Citigroup wins bid for Chinese bank 
Associated Press Corp., headquartered in Armonk, expand its operations in China. N.Y., will have a 4.74 percent share. Citigroup currently has branches in 
NEW YORK -Citigroup Inc., Meanwhile, two China-based compa­just six Chinese cities. America's largest banking institution, nies -China Life Insurance Co. and It bested a competing bid from a confirmed on Thursday that a State Grid Corp. -will each get 20 consortium led by France's Societe Citigroup-led consortium has been percent stakes, while Beijing-based Generale AG. selected to acquire a majority stake CITIC Trust will hold a 12.85 percent A signing ceremony was held in in one of China's biggest regional share and Yangpu Puhua will get 8 Guangzhou, the capital of Guangdong financial institutions, Guangdong percent. province. Development Bank. GDB, which is owned by the Citigroup said in a statement 
The consortium will acquire an provincial government and has more issued in New York that "this trans­
85.6 percent stake in GDB for 24.267 than 500 branches and about $48 action represents the first time a billion yuan, or $3.06 billion, billion in assets, is based in the fast­major international financial services Citigroup said. growing industrial province that company, leading a consortium of co­New York-based Citigroup itself abuts Hong Kong. investors, has been permitted to 
will hold a 20 percent stake -under Citigroup had been fighting since obtain substantial ownership and the 25 percent maximum allowed by last year to buy the Chinese bank assume a significant management Chinese government regulations. and the announcement of the deal role in a Chinese financial institu­International Business Machines signals that it will be able to greatly tion." 
relief at every home game since but emphasizes the importance
Officer 
thing. "I watch for play-on­words throughout the entire year, anq I jot them down," he said. "Before football season I sit down and try to put [the jokes] together." 
While he creates most of his work on his own, McCarthy said many students have offered him suggestions over the years as well. 
Earlier this season outside the Joyce Center, McCarthy said he ran into leprechaun Kevin Braun who proposed the line: "If you drive when you're blitzed, you might get sacked," which McCarthy used in a following game. 
"It was a great line," McCarthy said, "I couldn't believe I hadn't thought of it before." 
A long time Notre Dame fan after growing up in a predomi­nantly Irish Catholic neighbor­hood in Forty Wayne, McCarthy said he is happy to remain a presence in the stadium for years to come. 
"I certainly don't get paid for it -never did-and I wouldn't take money for it, I just enjoy doing it," he said. 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaumgO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

er Thomas Zeiser Jr. as he was directing traffic at the intersec­tion of Indiana 933 and Cleveland Hoad following the game. 
"The people who are really important are the police officers standing out on the corners directing traflic," McCarthy said, "and I did that before I started to go up to the press box." 
According to a Nov. 6 South Bend Tribune article, Zeiser suf­
continued from page 1 
used." 
That something became McCarthy's first joke line: "The automobile replaced the horse, but the driver should stay on the wagon." 
This first creation elicited what has become the tra­

of his words are not 'his clever punch lines, but rather the safe­ty warnings. He said, the "idea wasn't to make fun of the announcement, but to use [jokes] as a gimmick to make people pay attention." 
"The big thing is trying to get people to focus on traffic safety, and I know that's hard for them to do after an exciting 
ditional "laugh and groan" from the crowd that  "I watch for play-on-words throughout the entire year,  day of football and tail­ 
now erupts after  and I jot them down.  gating,"  
all of McCarthy's announcements. But after a few  Before football season I sit down and try to put [the  McCarthy said. "I think it  
years of using  jokes] together. "  has  been  
jokes in his safe­ working ...  
ty address, McCarthy decid­ Tim McCarthy  I really feel we  
ed  during  one  retired officer  overall  
game not to fol­ Indiana State Police  have  a  
low his message  great safe­ 
with  a  witty  ty  record  

fered only m i n o r injuries after 39-year-old Dewayne Lodholtz of Lacrosse, Ind, hit him with his vehicle. 
· "[Lodholtz] wasn't a football fan, just someone g o i n g through the him to continue to make the traflic safety announcements at all home games. 
Over 250 punch lines later, McCarthy continues to generate laughs no matter how the team is playing on the field. 
"I watch the whole game from up in the press box" he said, " ... the only drawback is being away from the crowd. 
"You talk about loyal fans over the years, Notre Dame could be 

"The big thing is trying to get people to focus on traffic safety, and I know that's hard for them to do after an exciting day offootball and tailgating." 
Tim McCarthy retired officer Indiana State Police 
six touch­d o w n s ahead and hardly any­body would be leaving that stadi­um, it's amazing how many people stay for the final second of the game." 
As the years have 

football traffic," McCarthy said. 
After serving 25 years as a state trooper, six as a county sheriff and 12 as a county asses­sor, McCarthy is now retired, but said he was pleased when the police and the University asked passed, McCarthy's third-quar­ter announcement·has become as expected as an Irish win in Notre Dame Stadium. 
McCarthy said he gets his inspiration for his collection of one-liners from anyone and any-remark because he thought peo­ple were getting tired of them. 
"The crowd stayed quiet wait­ing for the joke, and afterward people asked me if the PA sys­tem had died," he said. 
McCarthy has provided comic 

as far as accidents are con­cerned." 
The importance of McCarthy's announcements became obvious Nov. 4 -after Notre Dame defeated North Carolina-when a car struck Indiana state troop­
"We bring the same level of weekend is right before the ple." my family Notre Dame gear," intensity to our work every football game, "when there is Now that the football season Sullivan said. "Stuff that has
Ha0101es 

football weekend," Wiatrowski no win or loss and fans are is drawing to a close, the Notre Dame on the front of it, said. "We want to make ·sure still happy," she said. bookstore is preparing for the probably either a shirt or a
continued from page 1 

every fan has the The most pop­holiday season rush. sweatshirt." predicts they will see similar best experience ular items at the A large Christmas tree and Students do acknowledge volume for the last home possible." "We bring the same Bookstore arc decorative wreaths have been that despite their good inten­game. This "level of anything that erected to give the bookstore a tions to buy gifts for their fam­
level ofintensity to
Director of Retail OperatiQns intensity" must "has Irish writ­festive air. New holiday appar­ily, they often buy a little 
our work every 
Sally Wiatrowski said the continue all week­ten all over it," el will be in the bookstore and something for themselves as Hammes Bookstore will be end, as fans start football weekend." Wiatrowski said. students can get their holiday well. staffed with approximately to arrive at the This includes shopping done before they "I always end up buying three hundred employees this bookstore as early face tattoos, return home for winter break. myself the stuff they have dis­
Sally Wiatrowski 
weekend to accommodate the as Friday morning football jerseys Sophomore Diane Sullivan played on the tables, or the 

director
expected 55,000 visitors. But and continue and the hooded plans on buying Christmas stationery," Sullivan said. "I Wiatrowski said the level of shopping through Hammes Bookstore sweatshirt, girts for her family before love pretty stationery." preparation for this weekend Sunday, w h i c h heading home for winter is the same as for every other Wiatrowski said. Wiatrowski break. Contact Laura Wilczek at football weekend in the fall. The busiest time during the described as the "college sta-"I am definitely going to buy Laura.A. Wilczek. I @nd.edu 



NOW OPEN ?iJaPFnela 6 
at Macri's, formerly Macri's Deli. 
574.280.4824 
._C)J;/ftentir ~Yt;,lian ?fJrr1Jtne 
lunch: Mon-Fri 11 om-3pm dinner: Mon-Sat 5pm-1Opm 



• 3 MILES TO NOTRE DAME 
• 
Po!ish-n-Sea!er Wax Apo!ied 

• 
?·Step Underbody Protectant


BEST 
SANDY HAGEN 
52694 Stale Road 933 South Bend, Indiana 46637

• Spot-Free 574-243-9575 
Rinse Just2 miles north of Notre Dame on U.S. 31



WASH 

• 2 MILES TO 1-80/90 TOLL ROAD 
• Clear Coat
FF 

• Premium Soft Cioth V/asi1 
• 782' HIGHWAY FRONTAGE 
COLDWELi -,.
BftNEEII ,::,
'K:_f 

~,,_CCS)MME.IICIAL 


Seniors to see final home game 
Students say goodbye to student section, reminisce about past seasons 
Garbage 111an found guilty of rape, 111urder 
came into the courtroom, andCape Cod criminal his attorney, Robert George, wiped away tears with thereceives life sentence sleeve of his suit coat. McCowen bowed and shook Associated Press his head "no" as the verdict 
was read. 

BARNSTABLE, Mass. -A "People ask about closure, garbage man was convicted but there will never be clo­Thursday of rape and murder sure because Christa is never in the slaying of a fashion coming back to us," said her writer who was found beaten cousin Mary Worthington, and stabbed in her Cape Cod who read a statement before home, her 2-year-old daugh­sentencing. ter clinging to her body. Defense attorney Robert 
Christopher McCowen, 34, George reminded the jury received the automatic sen­that police had focused on tence of life in prison without Worthington's former parole for the 2002 killing of boyfriends before finally Christa Worthington, 46. arresting McCowen nearly 3 
"I never meant for this to 1/2 years after the crime. ever take place," said George said police decided McCowen, who thanked the Worthington was raped judge and court officers for because they could not showing him respect during believe that McCowen -a the six-week trial. "Your black, uneducated garbage honor, all I can say is I'm an man -could have had con­innocent man in this case." sensual sex with 
McCowen, who worked in Worthington, a white, sophis­the small town of Truro ticated woman who worked where Worthington lived, ini­for years as a fashion writer tially denied having any phys­in New York and Paris. ical contact with her. After "The black man didn't get police told him his DNA had justice; I really believe that," been found on her body, said McCowen's friend, Janice McCowen said they had con­Randall. sensual sex and he had beat­George also said police en her. But he said a friend failed to seriously consider a plunged the knife through her report from a neighbor who chest. said he saw a white man 
"We put the boots to her," driving a dark-colored van or McCowen said, according to truck speeding out of police. The friend was never Worthington's driveway about charged. 12 hours after police believe 
McCowen cried as the jury she was killed. 
"Seeds ofChange" A Musical Performance 
Georgine Resick, soprano 
Professor ofMusic 
John Blacklow, piano 
Assistant Professor ofMusic 
11:00 a.m. Saturday, November 18 Annenberg Auditorium Snite Museun1 ofArt 
"Seeds ofChange," a program ofFrench music from the 
first halfof the 19th century, includes works by Berlioz, 
By MAGGIE DUNN 
News Writer 
Four years ago, they set foot in the Notre Dame Stadium and experienced the overf1owing pride of Irish fans, football play­ers and students on their own turf. Now, as Saturday's matchup against Army approaches, thousands of sen­iors face the bittersweet goodbye that is their last home game as students. 
"It's pretty sad because it's been a part of my life for four years and to say goodbye is going to be tough," Saint Mary's senior Lauren Sheldon said. "Although I am pretty sure I'll go to games after I graduate, I'm going to miss the student section becausB it is a different experi­ence from the regular seats. 
"At my first Notre Dame game before I was a student, I would watch them in fascination," she said. "Then when I got to be a part of that, it was amazing." 
Notre Dame senior Matt Buckle said he'll miss the tailgat­ing -but also the stadium itself. 
''I'll miss being at Notre Dame Stadium," said Buckle. "It's probably one of the best stadi­ums in the country, and most people don't even get a chance to go there. I take it for granted a lot, but Saturday I won't. I'm not leaving until the janitor from 'Rudy' kicks me out." 
While many fellow seniors share mixed feelings nearing their final home game, they also hope to make the day a memo­rable one. 
Sheldon said she wants to take more pictures than usual, get there early and not leave until the very end. Buckle will enjoy the game with .friends coming in from out of town, but he also plans to make the most out of what he presumes will be a 
n easy win against Army. 

"I think Army is a good oppo­nent for the last home game because we're probably going to win by a lot, and a lot of scoring makes for more memorable push-ups. I definitely want go up," he said. 
Though they soon face the end, the seniors enjoy reminisc­ing about the last four football seasons at Notre Dame. 
"I have lots of memories," Sheldon said. ''I'll always remember when the leprechaun threw a Rice Krispie treat at me and when we gave James Aldridge push-ups last year when he was in the recruiting section." 
Sheldon, like many other sen­iors, noted that her favorite game was against the University of Southern California last sea­son despite the loss. 
"I went crazy when they ran out in their green jerseys," she said. "Then towards the end of the game, I rushed the field when I thought we had won. Although the ending was sad, it was still the best game of my four years." 
Buckle also recalled a memory of rushing the field for the win against Michigan his sophomore year, another game that stands out in the mind of several sen­iors. 
"I got a handful of grass and put it in my pocket. It was awe­some," he said. 
Satisfied with a solid four-year run and especially the success of these last two seasons with the arrival of coach Charlie Weis, the seniors are happy to be end­ing on a positive note. Many look forward to an exciting game against USC, as well as the pos­sibility of a big game in January. 
''I'm happy about it," said Buckle. "We've only hit one divot in the road so far this year against Michigan and that's just one loss, so it's a pretty solid way to end up the season." 
Sheldon echoed her senti­ments. 
"I feel like we're ending on an optimistic note," she said. "I would have loved to have been undefeated right now, but I'll take only one loss." 
Not only are senior fans leav­ing, but 28 football players are graduating -which, students say, makes Charlie Weis' upcom­ing third season unpredictable. 
"It's going to be a test of Charlie Weis' coaching ability because a bunch of new recruits are coming in, like Jimmy Claussen," said Buckle. "And a lot of freshmen are going to be put in starting spots, so it should be an interesting year. We'll see ifthey can step up or not." 
Contact Maggie Dunn at mcdunnOl@saintmarys.edu 

~  9/9-Penn State "More Than aMovie? Assessing 7J;e Da Vinci Code" (1 01 DeBartolo Hall)  -\.4  
James Collins, Professor ofFilm, Television, and Theatre  
Mary Rose D'Angelo, Assoculte Professor ofTheology  
Charles Barber, Associate Professor ofArt, Att History, and Dtsign  
~  9116-Michigan  "The Impact of the Dead Sea Scrolls on Our Bible"  ...j  
Eugene Ulrich, Rev. john A. O'Brien Professor ofTheology  
~  9/30-Purdue  "Successful Aging"  
Cindy Bergeman, Chair and Professor ofPsychology  
~  10/7-Stanford  ''1he Bone Collector"  

Chopin, Liszt, Gounod, and Saint-Saens, as well as spoken 
3-1/2 hours before kickoff in the Annenberg Auditorium, 
commentary drawing parallels between the music ofthe Snite Museum ofArt (unless otherwise noted). For more information, visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu
period and concurrent trends in literature, the visual arts, social history, and politics. 
UNIVERSITY OF 
.,. NOTRE DAME
' 

Fall 2006 Schedule Experience an intimate discussion v.rith Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some ofthe most pressing issues ofour times. 
Susan Sheridan, Associate Profes.wr ofAnthropology 
~ 10/21-UCLA "Completing the Constitution: 1he 14th Amendment"-w Michael Zuckert, Nanty Reez1es Dreux Professor ofPolitical Science 
~ 11/4-North Carolina "1he Role ofReligion in Peacebuilding" 
R. Scott Appleby, Professor ofHistory, john lvl. Regan .fr. Director ofthe joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies John Paul Lederach, Professional Specialist, Kroc Institute 
A. Rashied Omar, Assistant Professional Specitdist, Kroc Institute 
~ 11/18-Army · "Seeds ofChange" AMusical Perform<mce Georgine Resick, Professor ofMusic John Blacklow, Assistrmt Professor ofMusic 
Tornadoes strike east, cause flooding, deaths 
Power losses result from string of storms 
Associated Press 
RIEGELWOOD, N.C. -A tor­nado flipped cars, shredded trees and ripped mobile homes to pieces in this little riverside community early Thursday, killing at least eight people, authorities said. 
The disaster the two-day death toll from a devastating line of thunderstorms that swept across the South to 12. 
Kip Godwin, chairman of the Columbus County Commission, said authorities had nearly concluded their search of the area where all the deaths occurred -a cluster of trailers and an adjacent neighborhood of brick homes -and had accounted for everyone. 
Hospital officials said four children were in critical condi­tion. 
The storms that began Wednesday unleashed torna­does and straight-line winds that overturned mobile homes and tractor-trailers, uprooted trees and knocked down power lines across the South. 
In Louisiana, a man died Wednesday when a tornado struck his home. In South Carolina, a utility worker checking power lines Thursday during the storm was electro­cuted. In North Carolina, two people died in car crashes as heavy rain pounded the state, dropping as much as five inch­es in some areas. 
Off the coast, a Coast Guard helicopter lowered a pump to a fishing boat that was taking on water in 15-foot seas about 50 miles from Charleston. One crewman was aboard the 34­foot boat, which the Coast Guard escorted back to land. 
The tornado that struek Hiegelwood -situated on the Cape Fear Hiver about 20 miles west of Wilmington -hit shortly after 6:30 a.m. 
"There was no warning. There was no time," said Cissy Kennedy, a radiologist's assis­tant who lives in the area. "It just came out from nowhere." 
As many as 40 mobile homes were damaged before the tor­nado crossed a highway ·and leveled three brick homes. Some of the dead were believed to be children. 
Household debris, including carpet and a laundry basket, was scattered along a road. The storm dumped a minivan in a ditch, and an open refrig­erator that still had food inside was filled with rainwater. 
County Commissioner Sammie Jacobs said four to five mobile homes were demol­ished, and there were "houses on top of cars and ears on top of houses." 
"We've stepped across bodies to get to debris and search for other bodies here this morn­ing," Jacobs said. 
The storm knocked out power to 45,000 customers in North Carolina. But the elec­tricity was back on in most places by mid-afternoon. 
The storm also caused minor flooding in the Washington area, where rescuers grabbed several people stranded in 

· their vehicles, and slowed commuters as far north as Newark, N.J. 


Garners line up for new PS3 
Customers anticipate U.S. debut of Sony device after 6-month delay 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Die-hard gamors and entmprennurs pre­pared to shell ou1 $500 or more for thP new PlayStation 3 eon­sole that goes on sale Friday, many of them after waiting in line for days despite tho likoli­hood thoy'd go homo empty­handod. 
Hetailers across tho country arrangod midnight sales at soll)e of their storos. Lines somntimes stretched around th11 block, even whern the lirst consoles would­n't be sold until Friday morning. J)pJiverifls wPnt down to thfl wirn with FPdEx vans sending boxes of the sleek black or silver con­soles to individual stores Thursday. 
Nine months pregnant, Julie Mosley said she tried to ignore her eontraetions f(>r the chance to score machinfls fiJr her family, her daughter's father and her younger bri>ther. 
''I'm going to hold out as long as I can," Mosley said Thursday as she sat on a eooler in the 19th spot outside a Circuit City in Mount Laurel, N.J., joking about giving birth on the sidewalk. 
Potential customers braved freezing temperatures in Fargo, N.D., and heavy rain and winds in Baltimore and other East Coast locales. 
"Katrina could come through here and I wouldn't switeh," said Marco Cajas, 20, of Baltimore. "I spent the night on the cold street." 
Short supplies and strong demand could be the formula for trouble as Sony Corp.'s PlayStation 3 makes its U.S. debut, a half-year late boeause of probh'lms completing work on a built-in, next-goneration DVD player. 

The struggling electronics company, which has contended with laptop battery recalls and trails rivals in key products such as music players and liquid crys­tal displays, is counting on the PS3 to maintain and build its dominant position in video game consoles. 
In Palmdale, Calif., authorities shut down a Super Wal-Mart after some shoppers got rowdy late Wednesday and started run­ning around inside the store. In West Bend, Wis., a 19-year-old man ran into a pole and struck his head racing with 50 others for one of 10 spots outside a Wal-Mart. 
At a Circuit City Stores Inc. location in New York, potential buyers traded accusations of line-cutting and tried to avoid lights amid heightened emo­tions. 
"You can't even sleep unless you have your eyes open," Wataru Nada said. 

Some customers were buying PS3 machines for themselves or as gifts, but many were hoping to resell them at a profit. Even before Friday's launch, units were fetching four or Jive times their retail price at the eBay Inc. auction site. 
"As soon as I buy it, I'm going to sell it," said Jose Mota, 26, who grabbed the first spot in line Tuesday outside the Union City, Calif., Best Buy. "People will pay whatever just to get their hands on one." 
Many stores reported calm. 

At a Best Buy in Boston with 140 machines for sale, employ­ees simply gave out tickets for the first 140 in line so that everyone can go home. 
At San Francisco's Sony Metreon mall, a "sacred scroll" notebook kept track of the first 505 people in line so they could go to the bathroom or pick up food without losing their spots. Some even got wristbands guar­anteeing a unit. 
ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cuisine

.................___~~------· 
Open: Tues.-Sat. llam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. andMon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering 
--------------~4~~-------------­
We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North 
(574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 We are located in Roseland area, near Pendle Road on 3 I 

WE SEE A FUTURE IN IT FORYC)U. 
Whv, what Jo vou see? 
/ _, 
A career in clinical psychology and a doctoral degree from George Fox University. 
Caring mentoring, Christian worldview, national accreditation, and located in the beautiful Northwest. 
GEoRGE Fox CALL 800-6.31-0921 UNIVERSITY psy~.georgefox.ed u 
OuR CREDIT CARD PAYS You• 
Our VISA" Platinum Credit Card not only offers a low interest rate and no annual fee, but it gives you a fulll% Cash Back*. Plus, you'll enjoy a low 7.9%APR** on ALL balance transfers. 
You can view your current balance and make payments online. It's the card that's always in a giving mood. Apply for yours today! 
Visit our on campus location 

r4NOTRE DAME
021 LaFortune Student Center 
~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
You can bonk on us to be better 



~ CINGULAR IS THE FIRST WIRELESS PROVIDER with a Notre Dame on-campus network. 
~ CINGULAR DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE 
to Notre Dame students, faculty, and staff! 



cingular 



• 
~at&t 

Come in to participating Cingular Wireless retail stores and get lightning-fast AT&T Yahoo!® High-Speed Internet 
~ .. __,-· Your wortd. OeUvered. 

Elkhart 189 W County Rd. 6, iln front ofWai-Mart) Mishawaka/South Bend Also available at; tOpen Sunday 
(574) 262-3510t Univer~ity Park Mall 
AT&T (800) 613-9420 (Located in the Food Court) 
(I' ­
(574) 243-8069+ 

'..~ @ RadioShack. 
*Cingular also imposes monthly aRegulatory Cost Recovery Charge of up to $1.25 to help defray costs incurred in complying with State and Federal telecom regulation; State and Federal Universal Service charges; and surcharges for customer-based and revenue-based state 
1.-.W­

and local assessments on Cingular. These are not taxes or government-required charges. ,~~;:!~• '~-­
*~~; 

.,~t;.-· market and may not be available from independent retailers. Earty Termination Fee: None if cancelled in the first 30 days; thereafter $175. Some agents impose additional lees. Sales tax calculated based on price of unactivated equipment. Rebate Debit Card: Prices of Motorola V365 phones before $50 mail-in rebate debit cards and Push to Talk service agreements are $169.99 and $69.99, respectively. Price of Motorola RAZR before $200 mail-in rebate debit card is $299.99. Price of Sierra Wireless 875laptopConnect card before $100 mail-in rebate debit card and unlimited data connect plan is $169.99. Allow 10-12 weeks lor rebate debit card. Rebate debit card not available at all locations. Must be customer for 30 consecutive days. Must be postmarked by 12127106. Unlimited Voice Services: Unlimited voice services are solely for live between two individuals. Offnel Usage: minutes of use (including unlimited services) on other carriers' networks ("otfnet during two consecutive months exceed oltnet usage allowance, Cingular may at its i your continued carriers' or 40% of included ©2006 
limited-time offer. Other conditions and restrictions app~. See contract and rate plan brochure for details. Subscriber must li~e and have amailing address within Cingular's owned network coverage area. Up to $36 activation fee applies. Equipment price and availability may val}' by 


THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, November 17, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottwnukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate. Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 

'Loyal Daughters' part of solution 
It drew fewer critics, featured far fewer vaginas and probably went unnoticed by many on campus. 
But while in the past there was no avoiding the "Monologues" -a play with material explicit enough to rock a Catholic campus into debate -for those who attended one of this week's productions of "Loyal Daughters," the message was inescapable. 
Sexual assault is a problem at Notre Dame. And so is Notre Dame's culture. 
O t.The
When a girl tells the story of how she was that's why it's necessary to do so.
userver 
raped not once, but twice at a party off cam­While the "Monologues" may have enjoyed pus -and then found herself locked into a more visibility, the play generated attention
Editorial
torturously silent semester abroad with the 
first rapist-it's clear that there's a problem. 
When two guys sit in front of an audience, ridiculing a girl for "crying rape to HesLife" as they play video games, it's clear that there's a problem. 
And when 25 men and women get up on stage and explain, one by one, how they were abused or assaulted on Notre Dame's campus or during breaks from school, it's painfully clear that there's a problem. 
"Loyal Daughters" does a far better job than "The Vagina Monologues" at making its point and pertaining to the University community. It includes males, and it does that in several important contexts: as the wrongdoer· and the wronged, as straight and homosexual, as an adult both aware and confused. "Loyal Daughters" also focuses on the role alcohol plays in sexual violence -a point that is essential to the play's goals, since alcohol abuse is all too frequently a disastrous factor in incidents of sexual assault. 
It's impossible to undermine the real stories of real Notre Dame students. And it includes extra material that -while maybe not directly related to sexual assault -points at what several professors and students have referred to as a pervading "culture of silence." It's not easy to talk about 
sex and sexuality in a Catholic context -and 
for the wrong reasons. Controversy over 
whether a skit glorifies lesbian rape or a dominatrix's relationship toward her clients doesn't con­tribute to the overall goal of rape prevention. Discussion about potential problems within the Notre Dame culture does. 
That's exactly what "Loyal Daughters" contributes to this campus -and exactly why it should contribute in the future. A student-written production based on extensive interviews won't breed as much irrelevant controversy. 
This isn't an issue that pertains to a small group of peo­ple. Sexuality -and the ability to freely address it -con­cerns every person on this campus. A play that attempts to involve as many of those people as possible is an effort that should be praised, promoted and, above all, continued. 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.I@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBsERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers, The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed wEditor in Chiif Mike GiU(}On. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observl:r (USPS 599 2-4000} is publlslwd MQn~ through Frid<ly -cxc.;:pt durin~ t::um am:l ~t.ion pr:riruk A subscriprl.on r() The Observ-er is $100 for one aademic year.: $55 fDr -ont' lit:mc;u:r, 
The Ohitrvtr is published at:: POSTMASTER 024 South Din.ing Hall &nd address corrcaltms to: 
Noue Dame. fN 465564779 Th-e Obs¢rv~U 
Periodical postage pajd at Nom: Dame: P.O. Box779 
and additional mailing offkes,., 024 South Dining Hall 
Noue Dame, 1N 46-55&-0n9 
The Obscr\'u U.a member of~ Associated Press. All n:pmduction righG .m .<=v«~. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Eileen Duffy Trm Dougherty Kaitlynn Riely Ken Fowler Jennifer Metz Chris Hine 
Viewpoint Dan Cooper 
Bethany Scene Whitfield Marty Schroeder Graphics 
Jarred Wafer 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
'Consent' is no justification 
After reading the articles on "Loyal Daughters" in Tuesday's Observer ('"Loyal Daughters' draws hundreds" and "Professors, playwright discuss sexual assault"), I was disappointed to find that the real solution to the problem of sexual violence was not presented. However, Professor Gail Bederman did allude to it when she said, "[rape] happens far more often now ... because of a different 'alcohol culture ... and sexual culture."' This is the crux of the matter. Bederman admits that these harmful cultures are behind the increase in sexual assault. 
So what is wrong with these cultures? In the Epistle to the Galatians, St. Paul writes, "Now the works of the flesh are mani­fest: which are fornication ... drunkenness, revellings and such like ... they who do such things shall not obtain the kingdom of God" (5:19-21). Thus, we believe that drunkenness and fornica­tion (i.e. pre-marital sexual relations) are great offenses against God and kill His grace in our souls. 
Obviously, then, these are the issues we ought to be fighting against. The problem with our hedonistic culture and its defend­ers is that they want to allow these vices among adults (and even minors) as long as they consent to them. According to the popu­lar culture, pre-marital relations are permissible as long as those involved have made a free choice. However, this is a disor­dered view of sexuality which leads men and women to focus only on their own desires. Then, once the flames of desire and pleasure are allowed to have free rein, these restless souls are continually encouraged to fuel and satisfy them, and this leads to other vices (promiscuity, abortion, alcoholism, etc.), among which is sexual assault. To put it simply, evil only breeds more evil. 
Therefore, the solution is not to encourage these vices among consenting adult<>, but to recognize them as evil and avoid them while properly ordering our natural desires. This is our Christian duty before God and the only way to truly prevent sexual vio­lence. On the other hand, if you decide to play with fire, there's a good chance that you're going to get burned. 
Jonathan Kaltenbach sophomore Keough Hall Nov.l6 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

\\<AQ 51\.)DYe.:~cJ.J'? ~"ECOWII-f\t..\'\9/mOI\S-­
\\. ~wi\-\e:-~­
Z. S'?AN"K\\-\~ "'\X)G=ol. 
3-\<!C.MO\JE..~~­'t.\\~\...~~\)0~­
s.~\S"G.1\\t;,~­(P.C~\1\0.~1:..·11.n:. td':::l. 
{."\o~ \\.\~~­

OBSERVER POLL 
Do you plan to see "Loyal Daughters?" 


A. Yes B.No 
C. I don't know what that is 
This poll is based on 519 votes at http://www.ndsmcobserver.com/ 
SubntU a.~etter 1 to the Ed1tor at 1 
www.ndsmcobs.erver.com !: 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Be kind. for everyone you meet is fighting a hard battle." 
Plato 
• philosopher 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Friday, November 17, 2006 page 13 
Fallacies of a free market 
In the first half of the nineteenth cen­tury, when America was still an unprecedented experiment in democ­racy, liberal Catholic Europeans such as Lord Acton and Alexis de Toqueville worried whether the 
James
two social virtues of 

Matthew
liberty and equality 


Wilson
could both be real­ized within it. 
The Treasonous 
Equality seemed 
Clerk 
possible, they admit­ted, on account of the extension of suf­frage and the rise of public education. But would not both of these egalitarian programs result in a generalized medi­ocrity? Everyone may be literate and competent at arithmetic, but the natu­ral genius might suffocate among his spellin' and cipherin' peers. Universal suffrage would guarantee each person a role in the political sphere, but the great mass of citizenry would likely throw its support to the debased dema­gogue instead of the natural aristocrat 
because inferior judgment and jealousy 
usually lead to a blindness less admirable than that of the blindness of justice. 
As our current party system endured in the century and more since the end of America's antebellum experiment (after Americans decided the dangers of democratic government were too grave to continue without the absolute check of a federal executive and judici­ary), we have typically come to think of the Democrats as the party of equality and the Republicans as the party of lib­erty. Although such identifications are, to say the least, a stretch, I want to suggest one way in which they utterly misrepresent the true requirements for a just society. 
At least since Johnson's Great Society, Democrats have flirted with a European social democratic model of the state, which would seek equality by guaranteeing a comprehensive body of welfare programs covering not prima­rily education, but all facets of an indi­vidual's basic needs. Food, housing and healthcare could all be administered by a massive federally organized bureaucracy. · 

At least since the Hoover administra­tion, Republicans have paid lip service to a variety of laissez faire economic models whose core principle answers unjustly to the name "liberty." According to this principle, the powers of government should be limited so as to guarantee the greatest latitude pos­sible to the practice of free private enterprise. If the state would get out of the way of business, the market would provide a modern agora unlimited in growth and freedom. 
The lesson of the Great Society pro­grams is still being learned in most of our major cities, where literally hun­dreds of thousands of persons are crammed into high-rise tenements, in which they have no control over their living conditions and have no reason to believe that their domicile could ever be sufficiently theirs to become a home. Most of these egalitarian proj­ects have ended not so much in medi­ocrity as misery. What is worse, these manifestations of a "classless" and just society have actually become dumping grounds for displaced and superfluous persons as the program of economic "liberty" has spread over several decades. 
This project of liberty, in the mean­time, has brought about an ever more activist federal government, paving the roads (literally and figuratively) for the unrestrained growth of mega-corpora­tions. I apologize for repeating a cliche, but it is a true cliche, that this supposed economic liberty results pri­marily in the arrogation of great wealth to very few persons and leaves the vast majority of persons "wage slaves," whose sole freedom is their "liquidity," that is, their ability to move from one job or one town to another as necessity dictates. 
Both of these programs, in fact and principle, pay inadequate attention to the one locus where both liberty and equality may be had: the privately owned home. Although the rise of com­munism in the east during the last cen­tury made the specter of the absolute state expropriating the masses a real threat, in fact the greatest damage to private property has been the free reign of corporations, merely abetted by a servile state. As Fr. John C. Rawe observed in "Agriculture and the Property State" (1936), once the feder­al judiciary guaranteed corporations the full rights of persons under federal law with few of the restrictions imposed by state law, longstanding efforts to guarantee a wide distribution of private property (land) became impossible. Where once U.S. home­stead laws prohibited the ownership of more acres of land than was necessary to provide for the family that tilled it, by the 1930s, corporations had gotten such limits overturned and set up the massive factory farms that now all but dominate American agriculture. 
When a society attempts to guaran­tee as wide a distribution of private property as possible (and that means real ownership, not the mockery of it entailed by the proliferation of mort­gages), it demonstrates a cherishing of equality. When that society insists that only real human beings, and not the legal fictions of corporate persons, can own property and that it is part of the common good to foster and protect that ownership, it exemplifies the culti­vation of liberty. Our current president has proclaimed that more new homes have been built and bought in the last several years than ever before. If that is statistically true, it hides a more devastating truth. Most Americans who own their homes do so only nominally. A bank or a government agency can wrangle it away with little trouble, token efforts at fighting "eminent domain" not withstanding. 
The continued expansion of govern­ment powers will not resolve this deba­cle. The panaceas of the welfare state help some desperate cases, but as often serve to rationalize and conceal the consequences of reckless corporate growth. Rather we need small govern­ment; the smaller the better. Contrary to John McCain's true Republican pos­turing, we do not need to limit govern­ment that enterprise may free us. 
Government should be primarily local, and any business should be smaller still, until politics and econom­ics alike are primarily local affairs. Unless both these forces are reduced to the human scale of the city or county, they will continue to corrode the one field of action in which the person and family can act and be heard. The great error of our experiment in government has been to believe that democracy can simply balloon without losing its legiti­macy. On the contrary, size matters. Liberty and equality, insofar as they are possible, are possible only for members of a community in which one can know all one's fellow members and can nip in the bud any acquisitive enti­ty simply on the basis of its getting too big. 
Political liberty is not a universal value, but merely a local possibility. The only liberty that can aspire to the universal pertains to Truth and to the Catholic Church and must be addressed in that context, not this one. 
James Matthew Wilson is a Sorin Research Fellow, and carries "Who Owns America? A New Declaration of Independence" under his arm or in his heart at all times. His column appears every other Friday. He can be reached at jwilson5@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 



Leaders needed in politics 
In response to the recent Inside Column "Gone before I get going," (Nov. 15), I believe politics are scum campaigns for a reason, the main one being that only scum ever want to get involved in the first place. The author's view that politics are simply too dirty for his hands is a common perception among other would-be politicians. The problem with this is that it maintains the negative connotation associat­ed with campaigning because no one is willing to step up to try and change it. 
People with positive intentions see the political arena how it is, not how it could be, and therefore never even attempt to try their hand at a campaign because they feel politics will just be too horren­dous to even try. If anyone really cares about poli­tics so much, why doesn't anyone even attempt to change them? I think if these people were willing enough to at least consider a career in politics, they should also be willing to work hard toward chang­ing the process into something more respectable? I agree with the author, politics have become so muddled that morality may as well be a swear word. I, unlike the author, fully intend to dive head­first into a profession most say has no ethics at all, and I will change the arena into something a bit more respectable. I can only do so much, however, and this column disappointed me, as it seems very few other "would be politicians" share my desire. So long as people with good ideals stay away from the area they so despise, politics will never change and the cycle will forever continue. 
Adam Joines freshman Alumni Hall Nov. 16 

'Loyal Daughters' promotes thought and awareness 
Margot O'Brien's letter in Wednesday's Observer ("Play 'problematic' for campus com­munity") is a dispiriting revela­tion of her inability to under­stand what a play is. Some plays tell you what to think. But many great plays -including, for example, plays by Shakespeare -take a different route and demand that you think, without telling you what you ought to think. 
They present characters who speak and whose actions are dramatized. They do not present us with the author's views or require us to agree with a single moral position. Like so much else in the world, but heightened and intensified in the way that drama so effectively achieves, they question us and ask that we work hard to determine how we react to their events, their char­acters, their language. They force us to be aware of our ethi­cal response but they do not pre­scribe what that response must be. 
What O'Brien perceives as "morally neutral" may be any­thing but an abdication of ethical engagement or a form of implicit approval of the events of the play. It can be a superb way in which drama places the respon­sibility on us without offering us the easy way out of telling us the right answer. Great drama may be neither quiz nor homily. 
Like O'Brien, I have read the script of "Loyal Daughters"; unlike O'Brien, I shall be at a performance tonight to discover how the play in performance engages with my beliefs. (By the by, I am not for a moment saying that "Loyal Daughters" is as good as Shakespeare, only that it appears to work in the same way that Shakespeare's plays work). 
For every single one of us at Notre Dame, the Church's teach­ings on a wide range of sexual acts are perfectly clear and pres­ent in our thoughts. Our task is to think through how the Church's teachings and our own ethical beliefs (which may or may not be the same as the Church's teachings) connect with the realities of the experiences of those people on campus which form the basis for the drama that has been created as "Loyal Daughters." 
For O'Brien there is no difficul­ty: her acceptance of the Church's teachings leads her to find a response of prayer and compassion that she eloquently describes in her letter. That the people whose lives the play dramatizes may find 'nothing wrong with consensual sexual activity' does not mean that the play (or the playwright) finds nothing wrong with sexual activi­ty that is 'homosexual, bisexual, fornication, masturbation, or contraceptive sex' (I quote from O'Brien's letter). 
"Loyal Daughters," on my read­ing of the script, seeks to be true to the material it has gathered. It asks us to judge what is right and what is wrong. It leaves open whether we might, say, dis­agree with the Church's teach­ings on masturbation but accept its position on fornication. It never requires that we approve of all the sexual activity it docu­ments. And, above all, it asks what we can do, as members of a community, to prevent the kind of violence that men and women alongside whom we study, work, and live have experienced. 
That is a moral demand we should praise Loyal Daughters for asking of us all. 
Peter Holland professor Shakespeare Studies Nov. 16 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 14 
Friday, November 17, 2006 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
Chorale thrives on unique talents, versatility 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Scene Writer 
Bearing the official seal of the University, the members of the Notre Dame Chorale pride themselves on their versatility. Songs from the likes of Bach, Handel, Mozart, Schubert and Beethoven escape their vocal chords weekly. But their greatest pleasure may be the most simple one -seeing their audiences light up, no matter where they play or what they perform. 
At a show in Cleveland during the group's 2006 winter tour, Chorale presi­dent Michael Suso got a glimpse of just such an occasion. 
"It came time to sing the NO fight song and alma mater," the senior said. "When singing, the look of joy on the faces of NO alumni and friends in the audience as they sang along with us conveyed clearly to our entire group for what and for whom we were performing. It was a very humbling experience and stood as a unifying moment for the Chorale." 
Comprised of 52 men and women from nearly every major, including both undergraduate and graduate students, the Chorale acts as the official concert choir for the University. Open to students from all walks of Notre Dame life, the group hosts campus concerts and period­ically sets out on nation-wide tours. 
"Though we are a group of roughly 60 singers, we share in Notre Dame with thousands of alumni and friends," Suso said. "When singing, we represent those that have come before us and those that will take our places long after we have graduated." 
Chorale's devotion to its proud lineage takes center stage this Saturday. On the eve of the final home football game of the season, the vocal troupe will perform in the fall concert alongside the Chamber Orchestra, one of two joint performances this semester. Held at the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, the event will begin soon after the Notre Dame­Army game. 
"We have been rehearsing the pieces that we will be performing during our fall concert since September," Suso said. "This concert is our chance to not only sing, but convey the composer's feelings and passions through song." 
Among these composers are classic musical poets like Johann Sebastian Bach, Ludwig van Beethoven, Hichard Wagner and Franz Peter Schubert. And lest the audience completely lose itself in the 18th and 19th centuries, the group makes time for a few sentimental favorites -the Notre Dame Victory March and the Alma Mater. 
Transitioning freely between dassical, baroque and renaissance music, the Chorale offers its listeners a unique sound rich in tone and emotion. According to Suso, the group's mission is a simple one. 
"When performing, as long as we con­vey the original intentions of the compos­er and put smiles on the faces of those in the audience, we could not be happier," he said. 
Led by director Alexander Blachly and accompanist Paivi Ekroth, the Chorale continues to define itself as a renaissance choir -one that melds the varying tal­ents of its members to breathe life into timeless song. The founder-director of Pomerium, an internationally acclaimed vocal ensemble, Blachly has been active in his field for over 34 years as both per­former and scholar. 
"He's an esteemed, world-renowned musician-a consummate professional," Suso said. "We're privileged to learn from such a versatile musician and din~c­tor." 

Ekroth is the perfect rnpresentative of the group's strivings for versatility -a talented accompanist who can sight read and play music without any prior knowl­edge of the piece, Suso said. 
"She is truly an invaluable asset to the Chorale and an oxeeptional musician," he said. 
Every year, the Chorale invites new membors into its fold. This year's itera­tion is no different, according to Suso, and has nourished with a unique blend of singflrs. 
"Approximately half of the Chorale is made up of new voices. We have a great blend of new talent and veterans," Suso said. 
Beyond this wePkend's festivities, the ChoraiP has one more signature event on the horizon this sPmester -dual per­formancPs of Handel's "Messiah" Dec. 9 and Dec. 10. Besides their spring con­cert, Chorale will be traveling to NPw Zealand next May. If' all goes as anticipat­ed, the group will be touring with the prPstigious New Zealand Symphony Orchestra. 
For now, though, Chorale's focus is on just one pPrformance -the next one. Under the bright lights of thP Leighton Concert Hall, the group's versatility will once more be front and centPr. 
"Those in attendance will hear classi­cal, renaissance, chant and a taste of what makes Notre Dame great," Suso said. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 

Irish Glee Club joins forces with West Point peers 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
While the Notre Dame Fighting Irish and the Army Black Knights may be squaring off on the gridiron this weekend in a battle between two storied football programs, the Notre Dame Glee Club and the West Point Glee Club will be joining musical forces for a concert tonight. These two programs are full of history ­the Notre Dame Glee Club has been in existence since 1915 and the West Point Glee Club since 1903. The program prom­ises to be an excellent opportunity to see not only the Irish Glee Club, but also the Black Knight Glee Club. 
Both programs will be performing sepa­rate short programs, one following the other, before uniting for a 
joint program which is sure to 'This is a great glee clubs. impress. The Irish Glee Club The directors of the Glee
opportunity

will be performing a wide Clubs are both talented fig­
because of the

variety of music including ures in their field, but the stu­"Danny Boy," the sea shanty tradition of the dent leaders, Cadet-in-Charge Tom's Gone to Hilo" and the COT Jim Pleuss ('07) of thP
two schools. " 

Notre Dame Victory March. USMA Glee Club and senior The Glee Club has also Nathan Catanese, the Notre learned the Army Fight Song Nathan Catanese Dame Glee Club president, are for this concert, a part of the Glee Club President both thrilled by the prospects Musicology, he has been the director of the Glee Club and the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra. 
The USMA Glee Club is directed by Randall Wallace and was featured in the film "We Were Soldiers." The author of the book the film was based upon, Lieutenant General Hal Moore {Ret.), requested the help of the USMA Glee Club to help with the music and the request was granted. This follows the Long Gray Line's tradition of' service to country by using the group's many talents. 
The idea for this concert came from a joint concert the Irish Glee Club sang with the Naval Academy two years ago. The structure of tonight's concert will be simi­lar to the previous concert. The Notre Dame Glee Club thought this would be an excellent time to perform with another 
one of the service academy 
concert the Irish flnd particu­larly important. Also, the two Clubs will be performing a Renaissance liturgical hymn, Franz Biehl's "Ave Maria" and "The Battle Hymn of the Republic." 
Director Daniel Stowe has put together the music from shows performed through their fall tour. Stowe has been with the Irish Glee Club for over a decade and has been performing marvelously in this posi­tion. While completing a doctoral disser­tation from Cornell University in 
of bringing these two glee clubs together even though the two pro­grams differ. The Black Knight Glee Club is co-ed and larger, offering a different perspective on the music they will sing than the fraternal Irish Glee Club. 
The spirit of sportsmanship -a quality both of these schools arP known for-has led to the Notre Dame group finding places to stay for the visiting Glee Club. The Notre Dame Glee Club members, along with members of Notre Dame Army ROTC, will be hosting the Army Glee Club members. 

"I think you can attribute that to the hospitality at Notre Dame. It will be a good chance to share Notre Dame with them." Catanese said. 
Also, the Secretary of the Army, the Honorable Francis J. Harvey, will be in attendance. This would be an honor in its own right, but Harvey is also a Notre DamP graduate. This connection will pro­vide a bridge between the two institutions aside from the music they will be singing. 
This will be the perfect addition to the flnal home game of the season, one that Catanese feels is a great opportunity for both groups. 
"This is a great opportunity because of the tradition of the two schools," he said. "The dual traditions of collegiality from football ean now spread to music as well." 
The Glee Clubs will be performing in the Leighton Concert Hall tonight at 8:30 p.m. Tickets arc $8 for the general public, $6 for Notre Dame faeulty and staff, $5 for senior citizens and $3 for all students. A special price of $6 will be given to any faculty, staff or alumni of the United States Military Academy. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 



MEN'S INTERHALL 
Mob, Manor set for championship showdown 
Crowded backfield keeps offense fresh, defense guessing 
ByJOHN TIERNEY Sports Writer 
Morrissey and O'Neill will put the pride of their dorms and their one-loss seasons on the line Sunday in the Men's Interhall championship game at Notre Dame Stadium Sunday at 1:30 p.m. 
Both teams advanced to the Championship game with a rela­tively easy trip through the post­season. O'Neill started off at No. 5, but easily knocked off No. 4 Carroll 21-8 in the opening round. O'Neill then advanced to the finals by virtue of a 12-0 shutout victory over Stanford on November 5. The Mob was led by quarterback Chris Stroh, who threw for 147 yards and com­pleted 12 of his 16 passes. Running back Braden Turner ran for 34 yards on 10 carries with a touchdown, while fullback Mike Mattingly rushed for 47 yards on 10 carries. 
Both the running backs and the quarterback credited the offensive line for their perform­ances, as the line opened up rushing holes and gave Stroh time to find open receivers. 
Morrissey's opening round game against Zahm was much closer than O'Neill's, with a failed two point conversion by the Rabid Bats marking the dif­ference in the 7-6 Manor win. But Morrissey turned its offense around with a 27-10 drubbing of Siegfried in a game that was closer than the score indicates according to Manor captain Steve Klein. Manor quarterback Joe McBrayer threw for three touch­downs and ran for another, while completing 6-of-9 passes in the semifinal win. Morrissey held on to the win thanks to the power running game of Klein, Brian Pieh, and Nick Bencomo, who combined to run for 146 yards on 24 carries. 
Like O'Neill's, a large part of Morrissey's victory was the abili­ty of their offensive line to con­trol the trenches. 
"The offensive line needs a lot of recognition because of how dominant they have been this season," Manor tailback Brian Pieh said. "The running game, and passing game for that mat­ter, would not have nearly been as successful as they have been if not for the guys up front." 
For Morrissey, the champi­onship game will be about relish­ing the opportunity to fmally play in the stadium. After coming up short in the semifmals in two of the past four seasons, the Manorites were finally able to advance to the championship. 
"It feels awesome to be able to play in the stadium. I don't know if it will completely sink in until we actually set foot on the field," Klein said. 
While emotions are always 

important in football, more rele­vant to the actual outcome of the game will be the play of the teams on the field. In a game that O'Neill captain Pat Conley predicts will be "reasonably low­scoring," he believes that the key to the Mob's success will be dom­inating in the trenches and eon­trolling the line of scrimmage on both sides of the ball. 
"I think the linemen will make some important blocks that will spring our running backs for a big gain," he said. 
Conley is confident in the abili­ty of his team to play at champi­onship level not only on offense, but on defense as well. One main reason for the ofl"ensive produc­tion the Mob had throughout the postseason was its defense's abil­ity to win the field position battle. 
"Our defense has been strong all year and I expect the same on Sunday," Conley said. "Our offense has been able to move the ball very well against all defenses and should continue to be able to on Sunday. A lot of players on both sides are going to make plays." 
The Manorites, meanwhile, need to play with focus and determination -something that was important to their play throughout the year. 
"We have to come out focused and play our best came of the year. We need to avoid hurting ourselves with penalties and to execute like we've been doing in 

PAMELA 

a downhill, bruising style. The any one back. Both teams saw
Two-back system key 
perfect third-and-short back, that using different looks and for Mob and Manor Mattingly hits the hole quick different options are important 
and hard. But even with his benefits of utilizing more than 
size and strength, Mattingly is one back.
By BILL BRINK still elusive in the open field. "I think that it stops defenses 
Sports Writer 
"I think I can bring both from keying on one player, 
speed and power to the table," which is very important in this 
The paradigm was estab­Mattingly said. "From game to league," Mattingly said. "If a lished long ago -one primary game I can vary my running team places its emphasis on running back per backfield. style based on the defense we stopping one of us, the other is Any more, and controversy will are playing." usually able to run very well." inevitably follow. That idea The decision to install a mul­Such a successful running seems to have shifted. tiple-back offense was an easy game also sets up the pass 
Both men's Interhall finalists one for both teams. Morrissey since defenders are quick to -Morrissey and O'Neill -ran a similar offense last year anticipate a run. operate a rushing offense that based on the personnel it had "With the confidence I have utilizes two backs. at the time. in our running game, you often 
Manorite tailback Nick "The team decided to use a see opponent's defensive backs Bencomo presents enough two-back system when it real­cheat on the run, leaving our challenges to defenses by him­ized the amount of talent that very athletic receivers wide self. Bencomo is a dual threat was and continues to be at that open," Mob quarterback Chris in the Manorite rushing attack, position," Bencomo said. Stroh said. combining strength between The addition of Pieh to the Rather than competitive, the the tackles with speed when he Manor helped cement the two­backfield relationships are breaks into the secondary. back system for Morrissey, symbiotic. The backs realize 
"I don't think I fit into the which cou-ld now utilize the that victory becomes more category of any one runner," two different types of tailbacks attainable when they work Bencomo said. "I just try to run effectively. together and support each hard every time I touch the "We each offer different other. Morrissey's backs gener­ball." styles to the offense and the ally receive equal carries in 
Just when the defense starts running game," he said. "If you order to keep defenses off to stack the box, freshman can keep a defense off balance guard and a fresh set of legs on Brian Pieh stretches the field with the running game, and the field at all times. with his speed and vision. then employ the type of pass­"We have had no conflicts 
"I see myself as more of an ing game we have, it is difficult this year whatsoever," Pieh 
open field back," Pieh said. "I to stop." said. "The older guys have am not really a power runner, O'Neill felt that the contrast­helped me develop more as a but if I need to I can run up the ing styles of Turner and runner." 
middle." Mattingly would benefit the Even though Turner is the 
Morrissey is not the only team. Mob's running back and team that has developed a "I think our captains just Mattingly the fullback, they "thunder and lightening" back­realized that Braden and I had receive a fairly equal number field. O'Neill runs a similar sys­complementary talents," of touches. tem around halfback Braden Mattingly said. "Because of "We feed off each other and Turner and fullback Mike this, it would be smart to use enjoy each other's successes," Mattingly. both of us as running backs." Mattingly said. "Nonetheless, it 
Turner is quick, agile and Since defenses prepare for certainly does fuel you to know darts downfield through any what they think they will see that there is another back who hole he can find. But to con­from their opponent, adding can push you to work harder." vert in short-yardage situa­another factor to the backfield the playoff..<>," Klein said. 
The teams enjoyed having a two-week layoff to heal injuries and allow for extra practice time. "The two-week layoff has been great. The team is rested and ready for Sunday," Conley said. 
But after the week off, both 
teams are ready to get back to playing games that cmmt. 
"The anticipation of playing in the stadium is so great that it can be hard to stay focused in practice," Klein said. 
Contact John Tierney at jtierney 1 @nd.edu 

Manor tailback Brian Pieh rushes against Keough in Morrissey's tions, the Mob turns to doubles the possibilities 20-0 win over the Kangaroos Oct. 8. Pleh Is one of two backs Mattingly, who complements defenses must worry about and Contact Bill Brink at used by the Manor, alongside junior Nick Bencomo. Turner's quicker running with keeps them from focusing on wbrink@nd.edu 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Pangborn, PW ready for title game rematch 
By MIKE BURDELL 
Sports Writer 
Different year, same teams. 
This year's Women's lnterhall championship fea­tures a rematch of last year's title game in a showdown between Pangborn and Pasquerilla West. 
Looking for a repeat from last year's 13-0 win in the championship, the Purple Weasels understand the ener­gy surrounding the game and believe they will be able to handle the pressure. 
"We won [the championship] last year so we know what it's like playing in the stadium," Purple Weasels captain Mo Spring said. 
Although the Purple Weasels have aspirations of repeating their title, they aren't the only team going into Sunday's matchup with confidence and excitement Pangborn still has a bad taste in its mouth after last year's championship upset. 
"We've been working for this all year. We have been thirsty to get back to the stadium," Phox coach Tom Holder said. 
But the Purple Weasels also have a loss to avenge this sea­son, after losing to the Phoxes 13-12 on Sept. 21. But despite falling in the teams' only matchup this season, the Purple Weasels still feel they have improved a lot since then. 
"We've grown as a team over the season. We played [Pangborn] as our third game and we've certainly improved since then so I think it will be a whole new game in the sta­dium," Spring said. "We're definitely big rivals since we met last year in the stadium, but we'll show that on the field." 
Pangborn is determined to finish this year with a win, capping its undefeated season with a title. 
"Ever since we lost [the championship game to Pasquerilla West] last year. all of us, especially the seniors, agreed that we wanted it to be our last loss ever. The girls just really want to win the championship," Holder said. 
The Purple Weasels feel that the most important thing for them to win is to focus on their own play. A team led by its senior leadership, Pasquerilla West has confidence in its abil­ity to execute its plays well enough to retain the champi­onship. The Puple Weasels believe that no matter how good Pangborn plays Sunday, they will still be able to win if they play their hest football. 
"Pangborn is a really good opponent. They're a pretty strong team. I think it's more how we play our game than trying to expose their weak­nesses. We have to play how we've been playing," Spring 


said. 

But on the other sideline, Pangborn feels it can rely on the mistakes it feels Pasquerilla West will make. If the Phoxes are able to effec­tively exploit the Purple Weasels' weaknesses, they think that will be enough to win. 
"Both teams really know each other well, so the team that can avoid turnovers and not give up the big plays should win," Holder said. "It should come down to coach­ing, execution and taking care of the ball," 
Both teams have used simi­lar styles of play in their returns to the stadium. The Purple Weasels and the Phoxes throughout the season have both relied on the play of their defenses and their quarter­backs -Cara Davies for Pasquerilla West and Katie Mooney for Pangborn. 
Because of the similarities and history between the two squads, Holder expects an exciting game Sunday. 
"The fact that we fell short last year doesn't play a fa c­
. tor." Holder said. "The teams are very evenly matched, so it should be a good game." 
Kickoff is no.on Sunday at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Contact Mike Burdell at mburdell@nd.edu 


Purple Weasel defense takes team back to the stadium 
Women's Interhall champi­Pasquerilla West also under­back Brusky and ball-hawking "Maureen [Spring] and
By COLIN REIMER 
onship is its smothering stands that at this point in the safety Brigid Bulfin patrolling Brigid [Bulfin] are phenomenal
Sports Writer 
defense. season, defense is essential in the secondary, it's a rarity athletes, but we have a bal­The Purple Weasels have winning games because it sets when the Purple Weasels get anced team," Brusky said. "Offense sells tickets; shut out three opponents this up the offense. the ball in their own territory. "There is not a weakness in defense wins games." season, including previously "The defense this season is This tough secondary is our secondary. We can shut No matter what worn-out undefeated Welsh Family in what ignites our offense," hugely important for anyone down." 
cliche you use, the message is the semifinals. Pasquerilla Pasquerilla West captain Mo Pasquerilla West since teams But athleticism and ability 
always the same -a success­West has allowed just 25 Spring said. "They get our field are much more likely to have are not the only ingredients to 
ful team or program is always points all season, an average position." passing attacks in the women's a dominant defense. Spring 
predicated on a solid defense. of only 4.2 points in six games. The Pasquerilla West defen­league. says that the biggest keys to That is why it comes as no "We pride ourselves on sive unit has been quite effi­"You know they won't run her team's defensive success 
surprise that the primary rea­shutouts and goal line stands," cient this year in setting up the ball, because you don't get are its communication and 
son Pasquerilla West has an Pasquerilla West cornerback their offense for easy scores. too far doing that in flag-foot­chemistry. 
opportunity to defend its Annie Brusky said. But with the lockdown corner-ball," Spring said. "There are "We work as a unit," she restrictions on blocking, and said. "Everyone knows their less contact in general." role, and everyone executes." Because of the reliance on Meanwhile, Brusky said that the passing game, Pasquerilla the excellent communication West only sends two down­between her players is the linemen to rush the quarter­result of years of experience. back -seniors Julie Putnam "Our starting defense is all and Caroline Schmidt. seniors with the exception of "We have a lot of intensity, one player, so we're very and some great people rush­familiar with each other's ing," said Brusky of her defen­styles of play." sive teammates. "Because Brusky also discussed sever­they bring so much pressure, al underrated fundamentals the secondary can ma.ke big that are unique to a solid plays. Rushing two people isn't Women's Interhall defense. a problem." "Flag-pulling is huge. It's not And while Putnam and the most glamorous part, but Schmidt are busy chasing it's very important," Brusky down the opposition's quarter­said. "It's also key to have back, Spring, Brusky and the football smarts. It helps to be rest of the Purple Weasels shift able to recognize formations their focus to blanketing that indicate when a team will receivers. run or throw." "We like to be an aggressive But perhaps the most impor­defense, and try to dictate the tant factor in the success of pace of the game," Spring said. the Purple Weasels' defense is "But it's all about balance. the mentality that they bring You don't want to expose your­to every game. self too often, or you'll get "We all love the game," burned." Brusky said. "We all enjoy In addition to having a going out and competing on strong defensive mentality, the game day." Purple Weasels also have the 
Purple Weasel defender Brigid Bulfin, right, reaches for a flag during Pasquerilla West's 21-0 win athleticism needed to make the Contact Colin Reimer at over Welsh Family Nov. 5. Pasquerilla West's staunch defense has shut down opponents all season. big play. creimer 1 @nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Friday, November 17, 2006 
page 15 
@~g~g \.! 1:1-' 


Hollywood infidelity a plague on populace? 
A serious look at the role of celebrity marriage (divorce) in our culture 
By CASSIE BELEK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Diamonds are forever -celebrity marriages are not. Often times when celebrities tie the knot, that sparkling rock on the ring finger is nothing more than a fleeting symbol of a doomed union under the scrutiny of paparazzi and adoring fans. The divorce rate in the United States has reached 50 percent, and while an exact statistic is not avail­able, the divorce rate in Hollywood is certainly higher. When celebrities marry, the question is always "How long is it really going to last?" 
The recent weeks and months have brought a slew of high-profile celebrity divorces, the most recent being that of Britney Spears and the newly christened "FedEx." The message that these celebrity divorces is sending is that mar­riage is temporary, happiness can be found with someone else and moments of hardship can be evaded instead of confronted. 
This message is most evident among those celebrities with short or multiple marriages. Spears' short-lived first mar­riage to the non-"Seinfeld" Jason Alexander lasted a mere 55 hours. The childhood friends wed in Las Vegas as a joke only to get it annulled shortly there­after. The pop princess, a role model to thousands of young girls, showed a bla­tant disrespect to the institution of mar­riage and displayed little regret for her actions. 
In a slightly longer marriage, Renee Zellweger and Kenny Chesney married after a four-month courtship, but Zellweger annulled the marriage 128 days later, citing "fraud" on Chesney's part. The marriage between the Oscar winner and the country superstar is an example of celebrities marrying too quickly, only to go for the easy fix when they realize they do not know each other as well as they thought they did. This irresponsibility in choosing a spouse often leads to multiple marriages. Think Jennifer Lopez (three marriages), Nicolas Cage (three marriages), Billy Bob Thornton (five marriages) and most infa­mously, Elizabeth Taylor (eight mar­riages). 
Of course, the death knell of many Hollywood marriages is a cheating spouse. Infidelity is sad, tragic and unac-ceptable. However, celebrity couples rarely stay together when one is caught cheating. Nick Lachey, Ali Landry, Denise Richards and Jennifer Aniston all left their respective spouses after report­ed infidelity. Most recently and shocking­ly, Reese Witherspoon and Ryan Phillippe announced their separation after reports surfaced that Phillippe car­ried on an affair with Australian actress Abbie Cornish on the set of their upcom­ing movie "Stop-Loss." 

Witherspoon and Phillippe may be amicably sharing their children, but the nation is about to observe a bitter cus­tody battle between Spears and Federline. Celebrity divorces are per­haps most tragic when children are involved. They become the victims of the faults of their celebrity parents by being pushed into the limelight as their par­ents appear in weekly tabloid cover sto­ries. 
Are there cases in which divorce is beneficial for a celebrity? Perhaps there may be. Few will argue that Whitney Houston's decision to finally leave Bobby Brown will harm her more than help her. After 14 years of marriage scattered with drug abuse, Houston seems to be reclaiming her career and her health. 
Others will argue that Spears is also justified in leaving her spouse, who is perhaps the most embarrassing man on the planet. Kevin Federline has spent his two-year marriage with Spears squan­dering her fortune, getting her pregnant and using her fame to launch a "music career" that culminated in the sale of only 6,000 copies of his debut album during its first week. Spears is now in the process of staging a glorious come­back and career resurrection by ending her toxic marriage to her former back­up dancer. 
The celebrity divorce mystery is indeed a difficult one to solve. Why do celebri­ties divorce with such ease and frequen­cy? Perhaps it is because they can afford divorce. Celebrities do not have to rebuild their savings accounts after their wedding day and they could most likely bounce back financially from divorce rather quickly. 
Maybe divorce is prominent because celebrities live by a different moral code than the rest of the United States. Vice is a part of everyday life of Hollywood and scandal and gossip are expected by the masses. The media and celebrity watch­ers pounce upon the details of the latest Hollywood divorce and savor the juici­ness of a good scandal. Celebrities have often blamed the media for the demise of their relationships. Whether they use the media as a mere scapegoat or not is much debated, but being under the pub­lic gaze does not make maintaining a private life any easier. 
Perhaps the rampant failure of mar­riages is the reason many celebrity cou­ples choose not to marry, but to remain committed partners nevertheless. Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt are the most current couple to take this route. The two will most likely not marry, even though Pitt has officially adopted Jolie's children and they now have created little Baby Shiloh. The arrangement works for them, much like it works for Johnny Depp and Vanessa Paradis. After one divorce and four broken engagements, Depp remains in a successful eight-year relationship with Paradis and they share two children to prove their happiness. 
Despite the consistently high rate of celebrity divorces, Hollywood love is not impossible. Success stories exist, like those of Tom Hanks and Rita Wilson, William H. Macy and Felicity Huffman and Warren Beatty and Annette Benning. However, notice the exclusion of young couples because, as Phillippe and Witherspoon and taught us, forever is not a guarantee. The exception to this cautionary tale would be Will Smith and Jada Pinkett Smith, who married in 1997. That union appears impenetrable and their doubtful divorce would surely be categorized as one of the trials and tribulations preceding the Apocalypse. 
Overall, celebrities can marry happily, but the length of that happiness varies, sending a negative message to the American public. More often than not, it seems, celebrity marriages are doomed from the beginning. However, in typical Hollywood fashion, as one marriage dies another one is born. 
The impending nuptial of Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes is the latest internet obsession, but TomKat would do wisely to re-write their vows to take each other "for better or for worse as long as we both shall live or until we get lazy and stop trying." Perhaps their vows would contain something resembling the truth, instead of the broken promises made by so many divorced celebrity couples before them. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of cliffroles.com William H. Macy and Felicity Huffman, both Hollywood actors, have managed to have a lasting marriage despite the scandal associated with their industry. 

NHL 

Wild topple Predators in Nashville shootout 
Oilers thrash Blues in St. Louis, Bruins beat Maple Leafs in OT 
Associated Press Mikko Koivu scored on the Tim Thomas madn 24 saves power play with a shot from for the Bruins (7-7-2). who 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Brian above the right circle at 2:28 have earned all their victories Rolston's shootout goal was of the second period to bring this season in one-goal games. the difference in the Minnesota within 3-2. but "It's starting to come togeth­Minnesota Wild's 7-6 victory Kimmo Timonen padded the er," Bruins coach Dave Lewis over the Nashville Predators Wild's advantage again with said. "Tim is playing with a on Thursday night. 7:32 left in the frame. ton of confidence and the guys 
Rolston scored in the second Pascal Dupuis cut the deficit are starting to feel comfort­extra round of the tiebreaker to 4-3 with 6:54 remaining able with each other." after Nashville's Paul Kariya before Nashville's Vernon The Bruins hadn't won three squandered a chance to win Fiddler and Steve Sullivan straight since Jan. 23-26. the game with a penalty shot scored goals 2:13 apart. "It is very easy to get frus­with 38 seconds left in over­trated when things aren't time. Bruins 2, Maple Leafs 1 going well," captain Zdeno 
After Rolston's goal gave the After being mired near the Chara said. "But it's getting Wild a 3-2 lead in the bottom of the Eastern better compared to how we shootout, Josef Vasicek could­Conference for most of the were playing before." n't find the net on the season, the Boston Bruins Phil Kessel scored a power­Predators' final shot. appear to be turning the cor­play goal giving the Bruins a 
Nashville scored three goals ner. 1-0 lead when he knocked a in each of the first two peri­Patrice Bergeron scored 34 rebound past Aubin at 14:09 ods, but the Wild responded seconds into overtime to lift of the first period. with five goal over the final 40 the Bruins to their third Kessel, the No. 5 pick in this minutes to force overtime. straight victory, a win over the year's NHL draft, scored in 
David Legwand gave Toronto Maple Leafs on back-to-back games for the Nashville a 1-0 lead with a Thursday night. second time this season. breakaway goal at 8:09 of the Bergeron scored on a Bryan McCabe got Toronto first period. rebound of Brad Boyes' drive even at 1-1 on the power play 
Minnesota answered at from the point, putting the when his slap shot went 
10:09 when Wes Walz skated puck past helpless goalie between Thomas' legs with alone through the slot and Jean-Sebastien Aubin. 6:42 remaining in regulation. one-timed a shot between the "We are getting the results "Thomas played well." pads of Chris Mason for a now," Bergeron said. "There is McCabe said. "lie made some short-handed goal. a thin line between winning big saves late. I thought we 
Ryan Suter ripped a shot and losing and when you do had live or six good chances in from just inside the blue line the right things, you are on the last live minutes." that beat Manny Fernandez to the right side of that line." Aubin made 34 saves for the his glove side at 17:38 for a 2-Bergeron has scored the Maple Leafs. who had a four­1 Nashville lead. winning goal the last three game winning streak snapped. 
Dan Hamhuis gave the games including the lone "Sometimes you leavn it all Predators a two-goal lead less shootout goal in the Bruins' 3-in practice," Maple Leafs than a minute later, scoring 2 victory at Washington on coach Paul Maurice said. "We for the first time this season. Wednesday. didn't skate the way I thought 
AP 


we would." 

Panthers 5, Canadiens 1 
Olli Jokinen scored three goals for his second career hat trick and the Florida Panthers broke a four-game losing streak with a victory over the Montreal Canadiens on Thursday night. 
The Panthers hadn't won since a 2-1 victory over Toronto on Nov. 2. They dropped 11 of 14 overall. 
Chris Gratton and Jay Bouwmeester also scored for Florida, which had lost four of' five at home since starting the season 4-0 there. 
Tomas Plekancc scored for Montreal, which had a two­game winning streak snapped. The Canadiens went 2-2 during a six-day road trip. 
Ed Belf'our stopped 27 shots for the Panthers. 
David Aebischer made 20 saves for Montreal before being replaced by Cristobal l!uet at the start of the third period. Huet stopped 14 of 15 shots but the Canadiens missed a chance for their first three­game winning streak of the season. 
Jokinen, who hadn't scored since Florida's last victory, gave the Panthers a 2-0 lead 37 seconds into the middle period when his soft wrist shot went through Aebischer's legs. 
After Plekanec cut the lead to 2-1, Jokinen restored the Panthers' two-goal margin at 
16:53. He took a pass from Nathan Horton across the crease and waited patiently before lifting the puck over Aebischer. 
Bouwmeester made it 4-1, scoring a power-play goal at 

19:35 of the second period. His wrist shot went through the legs of two Montreal players and beat Aebischer low to the glove side. Belfour was credit­ed with the 33rd assist of his 18-year career. 
Coyotes 3, Blackhawks 2 

Yanic Perrault and Ladislav Nagy scored in the shootout and Curtis Joseph stopped two of three shots in the tiebreaker in the Phoenix Coyotes' victory over the Chicago Blackhawks on Thursday night. 
Mike Zigomanis tied it mid­way through the third period and Yanic Perrault added his third goal in two games for the Coyotes, who won consecutive games for the first time this season. 
After Joseph stopped Hadim Vrbata with a pad save, Perrault faked goalie Brian Boucher to the ice and fired the puck into the top of the net. Jeff Hamilton evened the shootout, also shooting high over Joseph. 
But Nagy beat Boucher with a sharp wrist shot low to the stick side, and Joseph made a pad save on Michael 1-Iolmqvist's forehand attempt to secure the win. 
Karl Stewart and Martin Lapointe scored 92 seconds apart midway through the first period for the Blackhawks, who are 2-0-1 in their last four games. 
Phoenix tied the game with 
11:19 remaining when Georges Laraque worked the puck free in the right faceoff circle and fed a pass to Zigomanis in the low slot. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit

CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
ND Home Games, Hassei-Free RV ND home games. Sleeps 6-8. E Washington St., updated, 4 bed,2 FOR SALE: UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Lodging. 3 Bdrm home/5min.walk Transportation, tailgating & lodging. baths, wash/dryer, A/C, security NO TICKETS. not go it alone. If you or someone WANTED from stadium. A one-time fee of 574-243-5547. system. dishwasher, NICE! 232-0964 you love needs confidential support 
$99,000 to buy a nice, clean home Call John or assistance, please call Sr. Sue WANTED: 1990 or 91 The Shirt. for all games. For more info call HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6 574-274-5692. WANTED: Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more $1 00 for quality shirt. Call Dan at 57 4-360-8707. Bedrooms FOOTBALL TICKETS. information, visit our web site at 712-251-0930. www. N Dstudentrentals.com Furnished 1 bdrm Jamison condo. TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-
Nov-May 07. Call Mary Anne WILL PAY MORE. nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad ROOMS FOR RENT for ND 607-723-7363 or 574-288-2726. in The Observer. FoR SALE games,etc. Visit gardenviewbe-607-770-0944. BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam-dandbreakfast.com or call 574-243-Hi Jen and Scott! Notre Dame isn't 
FoR RENT 

3-4 BDRM HOME. 2 BATHS, 1 MI. pus homes & weekend rentals. 0392. Special rates available. PERSONAL all that bad. now is it Scott? 
N. OF ND. ENCLOSED YARD. Bluegoldrentals.com TICKETS $135,000. 3-6 Bedroom homes. walking dis-ADORNEY Lyn Leone available. Billy, honestly, how is your heart on 574-277-8907 Furnished 4-bdr house. Walk ND. lance, washer, dryer. MMM Rentals. WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251-Underage consumption, OWL 574-the right side of your body? It's OR 532-9653. 574-287-4961. Contact Gary 574-993-2208. 1570 272-1968. incalclicable. (from The Office) 







OUND THE NATION 
Friday, November 17, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 

AP 

Track coach Trevor Graham remains free after posting $25,000 bail. The one-time coach of Olympic champions Marion Jones and Justin Gatlin lied to federal investigators in 2004. 
Trainer refuses to testify on BALCO 
NCAA Women's Basketball Coaches Poll 
team  points  
1  Maryland  730  
2  North Ca ro lin a  714<  
3  Oklahoma '!iii't  675  
3  Stanford  633  
5  Tennessee  614 :·:c·''''':K'iK'''..  
6  Duke  576  
7  Ohio State  558  
8  Connecticut  507  
9  Georgia  503  
10  LSU  
11  Arizona State  
12  Purdue  
13  TexasA&M  
14  Rutgers  
15  Vanderbilt  
16  Baylor  
17  Michigan State  
18  Ca lilornIa  
19  Southern  
20  UCLA  
21  Kentucky  
22  BYU  
23  DePaul  
24  New MeJd,~,~  

STEROIDS 


Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO -Two central figures in the BALCO steroids probe were front and center Thursday, accused of obstructing the federal grand jury investi­gating performance­enhancing drugs in sports. 
Elite track coach Trevor Graham pleaded not guilty to hindering the grand jury's probe, while Barry Bonds' personal trainer was ordered back to prison for refusing to cooperate with the same investigation. 
Graham remained free Thursday on a $25,000 bond, but a three-judge panel of the 9th Circuit U.S. 
IN BRIEF 

Casey signs one year deal 
with Tigers · 
DETROIT -First baseman Sean Casey is staying with the AL champi­on Detroit Tigers, agreeing to a $4 million, one-year contract Thursday. 
Acquired from Pittsburgh last sea­son, Casey was a hitting star in the World Series. He batted .529 with two home runs and five RBis against the St. Louis Cardinals, but Detroit lost in five games. 
"Everybody is a piece to the winning team," Casey said on a conference call, "and I felt like not winning last year, but getting there -having that taste of what it would be like to win the whole thing -for me it felt a little like unfinished business." 
Casey also hit .353 against the New York Yankees in the first round of the playoffs. He missed most of the AL championship series against Oakland with a calf injury, but said he's been healthy since. 
''I'm 100 percent," Casey said. "I felt 100 percent during the World Series." 
Court of Appeals ordered Greg Anderson to report to the Dublin federal prison by noon Monday. 
"We are disappointed," Anderson's attorney, Mark Geragos said of the 9th Circuit ruling. "But it is cer­tainly not over." 
Geragos said he is consid­ering asking a 15-judge panel of the San Francisco­based appeals court, or even the Supreme Court, to consider Anderson's plight. 
Outside his arraignment in federal district court, Graham did not comment after his attorney, Gail Shifman, entered the plea on his behalf. 
"He'll be vindicated," 
Cardinals re-sign Spiezio to 
two year deal 
ST. LOUIS -Scott Spiezio and the St. Louis Cardinals agreed to a $4.5 million, two-year contract on Thursday, keeping one of the team's top reserves with the World Series champions. 
The deal includes a club option for 2009. 
The 34-year-old Spiezio revived his career with the Cardinals last season. He signed a minor league contract and made the team as a utility player, mak­ing 61 starts and playing five positions. The switch-hitter batted .272 with 13 home runs and 52 RBis in 119 games. 
He led the team with eight pinch-hit RBis, including a three-run triple on the final weekend of the season to help St. Louis hang on and win the NL Central title. 
The World Series champions' first two moves of the offseason have been retaining key players. Jim Edmonds signed a two-year, $19 million contract last week. 
Shifman said. 
According to a Nov. 1 indictment, Graham, who coached Olympic champi­ons Marion Jones and Justin Gatlin, lied to federal investigators in 2004 when he told them he neither supplied his athletes with performance-enhancing drugs nor informed them about where drugs could be purchased. Anderson repeatedly has refused to tell the grand jury about alleged steroids use by Bonds, whom authorities suspect of lying to a 2003 grand jury. Bonds testified he believed Anderson gave him flaxseed oil and arthrit­ic balm, not steroids. 
A's bench coach promoted 
to Manager 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Bob Geren will be promoted from bench coach to manager of the Oakland Athletics, according to a high­ranking baseball official. 
The official spoke on condition of anonymity because the team won't introduce Geren as its new manager until Friday, filling the final managerial vacancy in the major leagues this offseason, one month after the A's fired Ken Macha. 
General manager Billy Beane went with the most experience and the familiar face, his longtime friend and former high school baseball opponent in San Diego. 
Of the three finalists, a list that also included Colorado Rockies bench coach Jamie Quirk and ESPN baseball analyst and former Texas Rangers pitching coach Orel Hershiser, only Geren had mana­gerial experience. 
Anderson, 40, already has been behind bars twice before, after being held in contempt of court for his refusing to testify. Both times, the prison stints were cut short because of legal technicalities. 
Now, he could serve more than a year behind bars unless he agrees to tell the grand jury what he knows. 
Geragos unsuccessfully argued Anderson shouldn't have to testify about whether he gave Bonds steroids, contending prose­cutors have an illegally obtained tape recording of And.erson discussing steroids with an unidenti­fied person. 
NCAA Men's Basketball 
'Coaches Poll. 
team 
1 Florida 2 North Carolina 3 Kansas 4 Pittsburgh s Ohio state '" 6 UClA 1 LSU 8 Georgetown 9 Wisconsin 10 Alabama 11 Duke 12 TexasA&M 13 Memphis 14 Boston College 15 Arizona 16 Marquette 17 Washington 18 Syracuse 19 Texas 20 Creighton 21 Conneclicut 22 Kentucky 23 Georgia Tech 24 Nevada 
547 545 
502 
432 .·..·.····· 
362 ;.;;+}? •• 356 .. 310 
261 258 226 
222 194 
184 156 121 103 
102 
8 9 
11 
12 
13. 
14 15 16 20 17 
19 18 
20 
21 
22 25 
24 
2 3 
4 
5 6 7 
9 10 
10 12 
13 14 15 16 
Syrac 
Cincinnati · Marquette Georgetown Pittsburgh St.John's West Virghtia 
Connecticut " , Providence·· Seton Hall USF Villanova NOTRE DAME Louisville Rutgers DePaul 

around the dial· 
NBA Washington at Detroit 8 p.m., ESPN Philadelphia at Phoenix 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Central Michigan at Northern Illinois 
8:05 p.m., ESPNU 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 17, 2006 
NBA 

McGrady doubles up on Bulls in Houston win 
Rockets nearly blow 21-point lead but hang on for victory 
Associated Press 
Tracy McGrady had 21 points, 11 rebounds and seven assists and Yao Ming had 20 points and 12 rebounds to lift the Houston Rockets, who nearly blew a 21­point lead but hung on to beat the Chicago Bulls 101-100 Thursday night. 
Rafer Alston scored 19 and reserve Scott Padgett scored 11 to spark a first-half run as the Rockets beat the Bulls for the seventh time in eight meetings. 
Ben Gordon almost single­handedly carried Chicago to a dramatic comeback win, scoring 30 of his 37 points in the second half. 
He scored nine in the final minute and his driving bank shot with 27 seconds left cut Houston's lead to 95-92. After Shane Battier sank two free throws, Gordon swished a 3­pointer with 15.2 seconds left to pull the Bulls to within 97-95. 
"I was just trying to be a little aggressive," Gordon said. "I've been struggling with my shot lately, so I wanted to get to the free-throw line. That's what kind of got me going." 
Houston also nearly wasted large second-half leads in nar­row wins over Memphis, Milwaukee and New York. 
"I don't know what it is," McGrady said. "We want to be 

great. It's got to change. We can't throw away games like this." Alston hit two foul shots with 
14.4 seconds left and Gordon missed a 3-pointer from the wing. Luther Head sank two free throws with 4.7 seconds remain­ing. 
Andres Nocioni had a layup and a 3-pointer in the closing seconds. 
Gordon hit 11-of-22 shots and had six rebounds. 
The Bulls' comeback bid was reminiscent of Houston's 92-84 loss to San Antonio on Tuesday, when the Rockets blew a 19­point lead in the third quarter. 
The Rockets missed 12 of their first 19 shots before Padgett's 3­pointer late in the first quarter triggered a 20-6 burst. 
Padgett scored all of his points and grabbed five rebounds dur­ing the spurt and Kirk Snyder fmished it with a three-point play that gave the Rockets a 37-30 lead. 

After hitting six of their first eight shots, the Bulls missed 17 of their next 23. 
Yao had nine rebounds in the opening half and banked in a turnaround just before the half­time buzzer to put the Rockets up 50-39. 
Houston started the second half with a 12-2 burst, capped by McGrady's banked-in 3-pointer. McGrady shrugged his shoulders and high-fived team owner Les Alexander as he trotted down the court. 
But the lead was hardly secure. On Tuesday, Houston led San 
Antonio by 19 late in the third quarter, then missed 25 of its last 27 shots to lose. The Rockets also nearly blew big second-half leads in narrow wins over Memphis, Milwaukee and New York. 
And about the same time the Rockets had collapsed against the Spurs, it started happening again. 
Gordon's pull-up jumper with 
3:50 left in the third quarter cut Houston's lead to 74-55 -the exact score when San Antonio started its comeback two nights ago. 
''I'm not happy at all," McGrady said. "You've got to be happy about the win, but the overall picture is not good. We know some of those games can slip away." 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Spartans upset No. 19 Longhorns 
Junior guard scores in waning seconds to secure MS U victory 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Drew Neitzel 
scored on a drive with 2.4 sec­
onds left to give Michigan State a 
63-61 victory over No. 19 Texas 
on Thursday night in the semifi­
nals of the Coaches vs. Cancer 
Classic. 
Neitzel, the only junior in the Spartans' starting lineup with two sophomores and two fresh­men, took an inbounds with 8.4 seconds left. 
"Give him credit, he did a heck of a job," Spartans coach Tom Izzo said of Neitzel. "He busted right through. I think they were worried about a shot and they were pretty spread apart." 
Neitzel dribbled behind the 3­point line, from where both teams seemed to be taking the majority of their shots, put the ball on the floor and drove right down the lane for the winning points. 
Texas called a timeout and had a final chance, but A.J. Abrams' long shot from a step inside halfcourt bounced off the rim. 
Michigan State (4-0) will play Maryland for the championship on Friday night at Madison Square Garden. 
The Terrapins (4-0) beat St. John's 92-60 in the other semifi­nal. 
In a game of two young teams, freshmen were key for both. 
Raymar Morgan had 18 points for Michigan State, while Kevin Durant had 21 for the Longhorns (2-1), one less than Abrams, a sophomore. 
Michigan State finished 9-for­17 from 3-point range, while Texas was 7 -for-26. Abrams was 6-for-13 on 3s, well off the 11­for-17 he was in the Longhorns' first two games. 

The Spartans used a 12-0 run -nine of the points coming on 3s -to take a 54-4 7 lead. Abrams hit consecutive shots from behind the arc to get the Longhorns within one. 
Abrams hit his last 3 of the game with 5:26 left to pull the Longhorns within 59-58 and Durant made one free throw with 4:02 left to tie the game. 
Abrams made two free throws with 2:48 left to tie the game for the last time at 61, and there were five missed shots and live timeouts before Neitzel came up with the winning play. 
"We decently guarded Abrams on 3s, he can hot then from all over," Izzo said. "Overall, we did a decent job on him." 
Neitzel finished with 15 points and six assists and Maurice Joseph added 12 points for the Spartans. 

The 34°' Annual Saint Mary's College 

ffladrigal <!Chrisbnas t!linners 
Fri. and Sat., Dec. 1 and Dec. 2 at 7 P.M. Sun., Dec. 3 at 2 and 7 P.M. in Regina North Lounge 

-fit­
Madrigal singers from Saint Mary's College, along with period instruments, SAINT jugglers, jesters and a Master of the 
MARY'S 
House entertain royally during a feast COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN
fit for a king or queen! 
For tickets call (574) 284-4626. 


80/90 Toll Road 
Douglas 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


· OPEN noon to six 
Tuesday through Sunday 102 7 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 

Friday, November 17, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NCAA FOOTBALL 




Slaton, White and West Virginia run past Pittsburgh 
Mountaineers total 641 yards of offense in primetime victory 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -Two stars, two exceptional games. Pittsburgh has already seen enough of West Virginia's Pat White and Steve Slaton to last a lifetime, and the Panthers still might oppose them two more times. 
White and Slaton crossed up Pitt by teaming as a passing combination in a high-scoring first half. then put away the Panthers for the second season in a row with a string of long runs in a comeback second half to lead No. 8 West Virginia's 45­27 victory Thursday night. 
The Mountaineers (9-1, 4-1 Big East) beat their biggest rival for the fourth time in five seasons, though not quite as easily as in last year's 45-13 romp in Morgantown in which White and Slaton combined for 399 of West Virginia's 451 yards rushing. 
Pittsburgh (6-5, 2-4) led 27-24 at the half before being over­whelmed by West VIrginia's play­making speed in a scoreless sec­ond half in which the Mountaineers had 371 of their 438 yards rushing. West VIrginia finished with a 641-295 edge in total yardage, outgaining Pitt 373-30 in the second half. 
White, the sophomore option quarterback whose quickness again was too much for Pitt to handle, threw for 204 yards and hit Slaton on the running back's first two touchdown receptions this season. 
"We knew we had to·set the tone from the beginning," White said. 
White ran for touchdowns of 64 and 19 yards on the Mountaineers' first two posses­sions of the second half. He fin­ished with 220 yards rushing against Pitt for the second sea­son in a row as West Virginia's two stars again turned the rival­ry very one-sided. 
''I've been coaching college ball for a long time, and that's as good a performance as I've seen a quarterback play," West Virginia coach Rich Rodriguez said. 
Slaton, the nation's No. 2 rush­er, was held to 7 yards on six carries in the first half, but still became the first player in school history to have more than 100 yards rushing (215) and receiv­ing (130) in a game. He had scor­ing catches of 11 and 6 7 yards, as well as another 43-yard catch as a slot receiver, and touchdown runs of 15 and 55 yards. 
"I was open a lot (as a receiv­er) and we wanted to get mis­matches in the open field," said Slaton, who, like White, is a sophomore. "We're a great com­bination." 
And Pitt might have to face these guys again in 2007 and 2008? 
"Pat White is the best quarter­back in college football," Pitt linebacker H.B. Blades said. "And Steve Slaton, he does pretty much everything." 
Their two-season totals against Pitt: White has 440 yards and four touchdowns rushing and 245 yards and three touchdowns passing. Slaton has 394 yards and four touchdowns rushing and seven catches for 146 yards and three touchdowns as a receiver. 

"We're just showing our tal­ent," Slaton said. 
Pitt must beat No. 10 Louisville on Nov. 25 to avoid a season­ending five-game losing streak after starting 6-1. The Panthers already are assured of their first losing record in the Big East since 1999. West Virginia remains in contention for a BCS bowl despite losing to Louisville two weeks ago, with games remaining against South Florida and Rutgers. 
Pitt quarterback Tyler Palko tried to keep the Panthers in the game with two touchdown pass­es, but was sacked eight times and got nothing going in the sec­ond half. 
"We were pretty pleased at halftime," Palko said. "We were feeling pretty good. But we couldn't come and out and exe­cute what we wanted to do in the second half." 
The 99th edition of the game now known as the Backyard Brawl kicked off one of college football's most awaited week­ends, the rivalry week that fea­tures No. 1 Ohio State vs. No. 2 Michigan on Saturday. 
West Virginia's offense was everything it expected to be in the first half. except for its reliance on throwing rather than running. The major surprise was that Pitt, held to 10 points by Rutgers in its last home game, not only kept up but led 27-24 at halftime as Palko threw touch­down passes of 23 yards to Nate Byham and 15 yards to Oderick Turner. 
The play that Pitt fans will most remember is Darrelle Revis' adventuresome 73-yard 
The University of Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture. David Solomon. W.P. &I'LB White Director, announces its 7th annual fall conference: 

to provide · ited discussio the underlying causes of the intellectual epoch 
·we have come to c modernity; of the relationship between the main theses of modernity and the Magisterium of the Church in the last century; and the impact of modernity upon work in philosophy, theology, law, literature, the arts, as well as other fields of intellectual inquiry and endeavor. 
Invited Speakers include: 
Most Rev. John M. D'Arcy (Diocese of Ft. Wayne-South Bend) Msgr. Lorenzo Albacete (Communion and Liberation) Jean Bethke Elshtain (University of Chicago) 
H. Tristram Engelhardt, Jr. (Rice University) Paul Griffiths (University of Illinois at Chicago) James Hitchcock (St. Louis University) Russell Hittinger (University of Tulsa) Rev. Wilson Miscamble, CSC (University of Notre Dame) Joseph Pearce (Ave Maria University) Steven Smith (University of San Diego) 

Alasdair Macintyre to Deliver Keynote Address Thursday, November 30th 
November 30-December 2, 2006 • University of Notre Dame For registration and more information: call (574) 631-9656 or visit ethicscenter.nd.edu 

punt return down the Panthers sideline that put Pitt up 24-17 with 2:18 remaining in the half. 
Revis took off after a thunder­ous block by wide receiver Derek Kinder so leveled West Virginia's Ridwan Malik that Malik took out one of his own teammates. 
The only problem was Revis' return left West Virginia with plenty enough time to score, with White hitting Slaton for 67 yards on their second pass play touch­down of the half. 
After West VIrginia was held to 6 7 yards rushing in the first half, White got outside on the second play from scrimmage of the sec­ond half for a 64-yard scoring run that give the Mountaineers a 31-27 lead. On West Virginia's next possession, White needed only four plays to drive them 97 yards for a touchdown. 

-
.­


-SPRING BREAK 
INFORMATION 
800-488-8828 

www.sandpiperbeacon.com 
fREE SPRING BREAK MODEL SEARCH CALENDAR* 
'VALID FOR FIRST 1000 RESERVATIONS. 


GOLDEN 
DRAGON 

CHINESE FOOD TO CARRY OUT OR DINE IN 
We're open on Thanksgiving Day! 
Fast Delivery! Lunch Special only $4.75 7 days a week from 11am-3pm 


BUY ONE COMBINATION PLATE get a second combination plate for 1/2 price! 
of equal or lesser value one coupon per visit mention this coupon when ordering and present coupon upon purchase expires 11/22/06 
page 20 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Hokies, Tigers, NCAA -investigating lawsuit 
Lawyer allegedly gave cash to fanner Virginia Tech cornerback 
Associated Press 
NORFOLK-Two universities and the NCAA are investigating allegations that two pro athletes received cash and other items from a lawyer when they were still in school, officials said Thursday. 
Virginia Tech is working "in a spirit of cooperation with the NCAA" to investigate claims against former Hokies football player Jimmy Williams, now a cornerback with the Atlanta Falcons, school athletic director Jim Weaver said. 
Weaver said the investigation resulted from a lawsuit that attorney Carl C. La Mondue of Norfolk filed last week demand­ing Williams and his father reimburse him about $55,000. 
"We're in the early stages of it, but we've got to get to the bottom of it, and our objective is to get to the bottom of the issue as quickly as we can," Weaver said in a telephone interview. 
La Mondue also filed a similar lawsuit last week in Norfolk Circuit Court seeking reim­bursement for almost $50,000 in cash and benefits from for­mer University of Memphis bas­ketball star Sbawne Williams, now an Indiana Pacers rookie. 
The court dismissed that law­suit Wednesday at the lawyer's request. There was no explana­tion for the request in court records, and neither lawsuit says why La Mondue gave money to the athletes, who are not related. 
Memphis released a statement late Thursday announcing that it is investigating the situation, despite the lawsuit's dismissal, and "will take all necessary action if these allegations are substantiated." 
"We have also been in contact with the NCAA and are working cooperatively with that organi­zation to investigate these alle­gations," university athletic director R.C. Johnson said in the statement. 
NCAA spokeswoman Jennifer Kearns confirmed Thursday that the NCAA is, working with both schools to investigate the allegations against the athletes. 
The NCAA generally does not comment on specifics about investigations, she said. 
The NCAA prohibits athletes and their relatives from receiv­ing "nonpermissible awards, extra benefits, or excessive or improper expenses not author­ized by NCAA legislation," according to the NCAA's Web site. Such benefits include a loan of money. 
Jimmy Williams had not responded to the lawsuit against him, filed in Norfolk Circuit Court. 
Williams told the Daily Press of Newport News, Va., that he and his father never accepted gifts or money from La Mondue. 
"He's saying he gave us some ridiculous amount of money, which is not true," Williams told the newspaper. 

Williams said La Mondue wanted to become his agent, and that he had met with the attorney in November 2005, but that La Mondue "wasn't big enough." Williams hasn't hired a lawyer, and said the NFL Players Association is "han­dling" the situation. 
''I'm not worried about it. I'm good," Williams said. "The truth will come out." 
Falcons spokesman Reggie Roberts said Thursday that the team had no comment. 
Happy Walters, an agent for Shawne Williams, said Thursday that the claims made in the lawsuit against his client were meritless. He said Williams was traveling with the Pacers and unavailable for com­ment. 
A message was left seeking comment from the Pacers. 
La Mondue did not return telephone calls seeking com­ment Thursday; his office said he was in court. 
La Mondue told The Virginian­Pilot newspaper for a story pub­lished Thursday that he did not want to discuss the lawsuits because "these are matters that are private." 
La Mondue's Web site says his law firm is "ready to assist entertainers and athletes nego­tiate and prepare contracts." 

The lawsuit against Jimmy Williams contends Williams and his father, James Williams Sr. of Hampton, owe La Mondue $55,149.45, plus interest, for "various services rendered" at their request. 


WELCOME FANS & FAMILIES! GOOD LUCK CHARLIE! GO IRISH! 
.CICE§:J ltoJioM, OIJtiltg otIa BtJt! 
574 256-1444 
Fine Italian Dining 
1213 Uncoln WayW. Mishawaka (Just West Of The 100 Center) Italian & American·Culslne 

----·----------------------------~ 
The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 17, 2006 

RACHEL THOMPSON 
rachell21 @comcast.net www.Homesbyrachel.com 574-235-3906 

i 422 MARQUETTE SOUTH BEND 46617 $161,900 
Ref ;; : :!l4lM Statu&: A<:tive 
·subdivision: 
NORTHSHORE TRIANGLE 
Stvle: 2 Stories 
Bedrooms: 3 
Full Baths: 1 
Half Baths: 1 
SqFt: 1,534 
Lot Size: SO X 120 
Year Built: 194(} 
Taxes: $1288 
Garaoe: 1 Car, O€tached .......................... 

ASSOLUTELY WONDERFUL HOME IN POPULAR NORTHSHORE TRIANGLE AREA, NEAR NOTRE DAME, PARKS & RIVER. HARDWOOD FLOORS, FIREPLACE IN LARGE LIVING ROOM··-OPENS TO 'PATIO' ROOM FUll OF WINDOWS! OVERLOOKING GARDEN-LIKE BACKYARD W/BRICKEO WAlKWAYS & GAZEBO. GORGEOUS DINING ROOM W/PROFESSIONAllY PAINTED CEIUNG. REMODELED FULL BATH UPSTAIRS AND UPDATED DECOR THRU 0\JT. MASTER BEDROOM HAS HARDWOOD AND LARGER ClOSETS. 3RD BEDROOM, CURRENTLY STUDY. KITCHEN OAK CABINETS & All APPLIANCES STAY, EVEN WASHER/DRYER. FINISHED BASEMENT W/NlCE FAMILY ROOM AND COZ'f OFFICE. NEW FURNACE & AC '02, ROOF '02, WINDOWS '01. REALLY NICE HOME IN GREAT AREA! WON"T LAST! CALL LA TO SHOW! PREAPPROVED BUYERS PLEASE. 
InteriorI Exterior: 

Security System, All Drilpes, Open Patio, Fenced Yard, Cable Ho<>kup, Den, Fireplace-Wood Sumlng, Ceiling Fan 
Appliances: RNG_OVEN REFRIG DRYER WASHER DISHWSHR DISPOSAL MICROWAV Basement: FlfliShed 
Water/Sewer: MUN...WTR MUN..SWR Heating: Gas Cooling: Central Air 
Exterior: AlumNinyl Trim 

Lot Description: Less than 1 Acre 

" ' ' 

DireCtions: ANGELA TO IROQUOIS TO f·~APQUETT£ ·.· · ·. . -"· "' : ~ 1 ~;: · 
·---lnformatlon here•n deemed reliable but not guar<>nteed -­C.opynght: :1006 by South Bent1-Mishawakil As<>oe. ot REALTORS 10/30/06 10:59 AM 
Department of Music Presents 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 



CHORALE 
& CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR 
BEETHOVEN ' BACH ' WAGNER' DEBUSSY 
8:00P.M. SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2006 FOLLOWING THE ARMY GAME 
SPECIAL OFFER TO FOOTBALL FANS: 
PRESENT FOOTBALL GAME TICKET STUB AT DPAC BOX OFFICE FOR 50% DISCOUNT ON GENERAL ADMISSION TICKET 
LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL 

MARl~ I~ NBARTOLO CENTER fOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 
Tickets ~1o, ~8, ~6, ~3 

phone 574-631-2800 or buy on-line at http://performingarts.nd.edu 
~.DEBARTOLO 
PERFORMING AATS CENTER 


-----------~ 

MLB 
Athletics hire Green to replace Macha as manager 
Associated Press sional coach I got a feel for and ration is really doing it." about business, though they deserving of the job," Street ­
got to understand. What he Geren joined the A's organiza­believe that having an under­said. "Billy's going to do what's 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Bob brings is someone dedicated to tion in 1999 as manager of standing and a trust certainly best for the organization. I real-Geren will be promoted from the team and dedicated to his Class-A Modesto, then spent the won't hurt. ly wasn't wor­bench coach to manager of the players. He's got a good feel for next three seasons managing at Geren said ried about Oakland Athletics, ending a the team and that's a real posi­Triple-A Sacramento. He also his creden­"Bob seems to be a good who the man­monthlong search for Ken tive for all of us." has managed in the Dominican tials should communicator and he ager would Macha's replacement. Of the three finalists, a list Winter League and managed speak to his be. We trust
probably reached out to

Two A's players told The that also included Colorado during three of his five seasons ability. Beane Billy and his
everybody on the club and

Associated Press that Geren Rockies bench coach Jamie in the Red Sox organization has long con­decision mak­called them Thursday after he Quirk and ESPN baseball ana­from 1994-98. He has a 452-sidered Geren let them know he's the ing. I think he was hired. The team scheduled lyst and former Texas Rangers 390 record in seven seasons as managing made the
manager ofthe Oakland 

a news conference for Friday pitching coach Ore! Hershiser, a minor league manager. material -right move.
A's and is looking forward 

afternoon to only Geren A's center fielder Mark Kotsay interviewing "Bob is formally had any man­also received a call from Geren him last year to managing us. " going to bring introduce 'Tm really excited. [Green agerial expe­on Thursday with the news -when the lot of positives Geren as their rience. He exactly the kind of communica­club briefly to the table
has] already called me Mark Kotsay
new manager. was the first tion players appreciate, Kotsay parted ways and a lot of
and we've spoken a little Oakland outfielder 
He fills the to interview said. with Macha baseball final manage­bit. I spent my first full for the job on "Bob seems to be a good com­before re-knowledge. rial vacancy year in the big leagues Oct. 30. municator and he probably signing him about a week later. He's been in the game for a long in the major Beane and reached out to everybody on the Geren thought working as time and managed at a lot of
with him in the bullpen." 

leagues thi_s assistant GM club and let them know he's the bench coach for a season bene­levels. He's been in some big offseason, one David Forst manager of the Oakland A's and fited him because he could see games as a manager." month after Houston Street both were is looking forward to managing what worked and what things Macha was fired after four the A's fired Oakland closer traveling us," Kotsay said in a phone he might have done differently seasons on Oct. 16, two days Macha. Thursday interview. "Obviously he's very in the top job. after Oakland was swept by the 
General night and not familiar with the team. He's "There were a lot of potential wild-card Detroit Tigers in the manager Billy Beane went with immediately available for com­familiar with the staff. His expe­candidates and a lot of people AL championship series. 
the most experience and the ment. Messages left for Geren rience over the last couple of familiar face, his longtime went unreturned. years as bullpen coach and friend and former high school Geren, a catcher for five sea­bench coach will help him be a baseball opponent in San Diego. sons with the New York great manager for our ball­
A's closer Huston Street said Yankees and San Diego Padres, club." he heard Thursday from Geren,. spent the 2006 season as bench The 45-year-old Geren, the who told the pitcher he got the coach in Oakland after three best man in Beane's second job. seasons as bullpen coach in his wedding, had to at least have 
''I'm really excited," said first stint on a major league some confidence in his status Street, the 2005 AL Rookie of coaching staff. with the organization: He the Year. "He's already called "I think it helped him quite a bought a house in the Bay Area me and we've spoken a little bit. bit," Beane said Tuesday in his this year. I spent my first full year in the first and only public comments Neither Beane nor Geren big leagues with him in the about the search. "But until you wanted this to be about their bullpen. He was the first profes-sit in that chair, the only prepa-friendship but rather strictly 

Last year we pledged $2000 for 

I"As You Wish"t g/ 
hurricane relief in the Guatemalan village where we work. In the end,

mpor s -/,, 
we spent $4400! Thank you for your support! Please stop in toLoads of Silver & Beaded Jewelry, Tapestry Wall Hangings, Hand Crafted Gift Items, 

look, buy, or just visit! Accessories, and Much, Much Morel 

Guatemala • Bolivia • Peru • Mexico • Thailand • India 

LaFortune-Sorin Room (1st Fl.)  Proceeds from sales of jewelry guarantee the loving  
Nov. 27-Dec. 2 (Sat.)  hands of Guatemalan families 3 times their average  
11-Spm & M-F Evenings 7:30-10pm  salary, as well as funds for their education.  



rt• ay, 
er 1 
' 



Centu Center 
Kick-off your ND football weekend with the South Bend Symphony and a "Salute to the Irish" featuring Guest Conductor and Clarinetist Carl Topilow of the Cleveland Pops. Enjoy your favorite fight songs and football movie tunes including the "Theme from RudyJl, the "Notre Dame Fight Song" and many -more. 
SouthBendSymphony.com or call 574.235.9190 

~A'l'JON.Al t~l~~i.)oc"r 
wi9rw: 
ARTS 

.­

ND VOLLEYBALL 
Bearcats wrestle 




-Irish •
In 
No. 5 seed Notre Dame seeks upsets in league tourney 
By KYLE CASSILY Sporrs Writer 
Notre Dame enters the Big East tournament this weekend in an unfamiliar position, but will face a very familiar oppo­nent. 
The No. 5 seed Irish will play No. 4 seed and tournament host Cincinnati in the quarterfi­nals tonight at 6 p.m. at Fifth Third Arena. The Irish (16-11, 10-4 Big East) won the tourna­ment last year by beating Louisville in the championship and split the regular season title with the Cardinals. But this season has been a rebuild­ing year as six freshmen have seen significant time. 
"The team is very excited," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. "We're disappointed and a little bit frustrated with how things ended up. But they know it's a new season now and everyone is starting at zero and zero. I think were' going in with confi­dence and believing in each other." 
Junior captain Adrianna Stasiuk and sophomore outside hitter Mallorie Croal were named first team All-Big East at the postseason awards ban­quet Thursday at the University of Cincinnati. Sophomore middle blocker Justine Stremick was awarded second team All-Big East hon­ors. 
"I thought they were really well-deserved," Brown said. "It's great for each of them to be recognized -and for the team overall." 
Stasiuk missed several matches in the latter half of the season after suffering a high ankle sprain Oct. 22 against St. John's, but Brown said that she is back to her dominating form. 
"[Adrianna's] definitely in a 


Big East 
really good place with that," 
Brown said. "We're definitely 
keeping it heavily taped, but 
she's playing really well." 
Notre Dame met Cincinnati at 
Fifth Third Arena a little over a 
month ago when the Irish were 
swept 3-0 by the Bearcats. It 
was the second loss in a three­
game skid that also saw the 
team fall to conference power­
houses St. John's and Louisville 
before dropping from first to 
fourth place in the league. 
"I think it's good [to play at 
Cincinnati again I because 
we've been there earlier in the 
year and played on the court 
before," Brown said. "I honest­
ly don't see it as huge advan­
tage for them. We're very 
ready to play." 
In that Oct. 28 match against 
the Bearcats, the Irish were 
defeated 20-30, 28-:~o. 22-30. 
Cincinnati got out to a strong 
start in the first game, and the 
outmatched Irish could not 

recover, although they put up a· 
fight in the second game. 
"Last time we played them, 
our serving and passing 
weren't very good at all," 
Brown said. "That's the basic 
fundamentals of the game. We 
need to serve well and put a lot 
of pressure on them." 
Brown said that in prepara­
tion for the quarterfinals, the 
team has been practicing dif­
ferent game and rotation situa­
tions with all of its substitutes 
in an effort to utilize the entire 
team. 
"We've looked at every sce­
nario we could have used them 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles set to coininence season 
Saint Mary's will face nationally ranked opponent in tournament 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 

Tipping off the season with a new coach and eight fresh­men, Saint Mary's wants to look forward. If the Belles are searching for an opportu­nity to gauge their status, they need look no further than this arternoon 's matchup with nationally ranked Wheaton. 
First-year coach Jennifer Henley and Saint Mary's take on the Thundnr, ranked No. 5 by D3hoops.com, at 3 p.m. in the first round of the Lee Pfund Classic in Wheaton, Ill. Wheaton finished 25-5 in 2005-06 and reached the round of 16 in last season's Division III N C A A Tournament. 
ends of the court while trying over the past few seasons. In to contain Jill Trenz and 2003-04, the squad went 7­Elizabeth Fox. We must take 19, including 2-12 in MIAA care of the ball against this play under coach Suan 
experienced team." 
For their part, the Belles have three key returners of their own ­tri-captains senior Bridget Lipke, junior Alison Kessler and senior Stefanie Broderick. 
Hunning the point, Lipke averaged 5.5 
assists per game last season. 
Kessler led the team in points with 14.8 points per game and won first-team 

T h e "Bridget and Alison, Ali-MIAA honors. Thunder along with Broderick saw return four limited action in
Broderick, have 
starters from 2005-06, but that team, done a great job Henley said she including their helping our adds valuable entire front leadership to the
freshmen with the 
court of cen­squad-. ter Jill Trenz, transition to the "Bridget and an honorable college game." Alison, along with mention All­Stef Broderick, American last have done a great
Jennifer Henley 
season, and job helping our forwards Belles coach freshmen with Brittany the transition to Cooper and the college Elizabeth Fox. game," Henley Henley is well aware of said. "They are doing exactly Wheaton's talent. what they need to do as lead­
"They are pretty solid all ers." the way around," Henley Lipke, Broderick and said. "Our keys to success is Kessler have seen Saint to control the boards at both Mary's improve markedly Bellina. A sea· son later, the Belles earned an 11-15 mark

"The team as a 
and 6-10 whole is very league record. Last season,
focused on what we, 
Saint Mary's
need to do this 
brought in a 
season. new coach, Steve Bender. The Belles
Jennifer Henley 
again finish,ed
Belles coach 
11-15 overall 
but their 9-7 
conference 
record was the program's best-ever MIAA mark. After the season, Saint Mary's declined to renew Bender's contract for undis­closed reasons. Henley was hired in July to take over as the third Belles coach in as many years. 
"The team as a whole is very focused on what we need to do this season," Henley said. "We are all look­ing forward to the tough competition we have on our s-chedule. Our goals are to improve upon last season's success and continue to build this program." 
Depending upon the out­come of the Friday games, Saint Mary's will play either Wilmington or Wisconsin­Whitewater Saturday to con­clude the four-team tourna­ment. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
in to maximize all the talent that we have," she said. 
In other matches, No. 1 St. John's will play No. 8 South Florida, No. 2 Louisville will face off against No. 7 Connecticut and No. 3 Pittsburgh will battle No. 6 Marquette -all matches will be held today, with the semifi­nals to be played Saturday and the championship Sunday. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

R.ESTAUR./\NT & ALEHOUSE PUB 

NORTHWESTERN 
UNIVERSITY 

MASTER OF SCIENCE IN EDUCATION PROGRAM 
Ranked #10, Best Graduate Schools ofEducation, 
U.S. News and World Report 
One year program option in 
• Elementary Teaching • Secondary Teaching • • Advanced Teaching • • Higher Education Administration and Policy • 
Early Admis~ion Deadline Fa112007 January 5, 2007 
Monthly Information Sessions and Thursday Morning Drop-Ins Available 
Call or Email with questions: (847) 467-1458 
ms(dpro_r~<f~'mail,5e.\JJ_,./.wr!.lnrr:..•~Lcn_l_J:,_r.f~& 
Visit our website at 

www.sesp.northwestern.edu/msed 
1\'lll~lll~ '1'111~ IlllSII '11liJ..f;lrrl~. 
JIEI~ORn, J)IJRING, ANn IU'"I'Eil 'fill~ (M.11E. 
FOO'fBALL WEEKEND HOURS 
FRIIM\' Restaurant: 11:00 am -Midnight Pub: 11:30 am -2:00am 
SA1'1JRUAY Restaurant: 8:oo am -Midnight Pub: 8:oo am -2:oo am 

Legends is located too yards south of Notre Dame Stadium. www.legendsofnotredame.org 574.631.2582 
.JOIN IJS HUl OlJili~YJ~ OJJENUil Bllt:ilKFilS'I'! l~OO'I'Utll..l.. SA'l'lJIU}ilYS FllOM U:OO A11-II:OO 1UI. 

-
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

Irish Go-pher back-to-hack titles 
Ranked squad defends Minnesota Invite 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
No. 20 Notre Dame trav­els to the University of Minnesota this weekend to defend their title in the Minnesota Invitational against 12 other chal­lengers, including the No. 16 Gophers. 
"There are a lot of good teams coming this year," freshman Vivian Healey said. "This year the compe­tition is hatder, but our team is also better this year." 
The Irish have a 3-0 record in dual meet compe­tition with wins over Purdue, Pittsburgh and Michigan State. This year's 39-member squad features 16 freshmen. 
llealey said that invita­breaststroke. The U.S. Open tional meets are a good time is 1:05.19 seconds, time for the individual while Healey has a time of swimmers to focus on 1:05.21. improving times to meet Big "You need to be really East and National qualify­focused. You work on all ing standards sorts of things instead of worry­'This year the -turns, head ing about swim­position, body
competition is 
ming multiple position," she
harder, but our
events in a dual said. "It's not meet to outscore team is also better just condition­an opponent. ing. Like last
this year., 
"Instead of our week, I worked goal being to beat on head posi­a certain team, Vivian Healey tion." like in the dual Irish freshman Healey's win 
meets, you just want to be able to swim a certain time," Healey said. "We want to get good times for the Big East tourna.­ment, and we also have the 
U.S. Open coming up in two weeks. 
Healey will try to improve her time in the 100-yard 
last Saturday in the 100-yard breast­stroke contributed to Notre Dame's 188-112 win over Pittsburgh. In that meet, senior Katie Carroll set a school record in the 1,000­yard freestyle with a time of 
9:49.80 as Notre Dame won 9-of-16 events on their way 


to victory. 
The day before against Michigan State, Notre Dame won 10-of-13 events in their 155.5-86.5 win. Freshman Ashlee Edgell picked up her first win of the career in the 200-yard individual medley, while junior Caroling Johnson picked up two wins in the 50-yard freestyle and 100-yard butterfly. 
In their first dual meet of the year, the Irish drowned No. 25 Purdue 185-115. Carroll set another school mark in the 200-yard freestyle while posting an NCAA qualifying time in that event and the 200-yard individual medley. 
The Minnesota Invite begins today and will end Sunday. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING 







Belles gear up for 
-
favored Britons 
Saint Mary's hopes to ride recent momentum 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Coming off its first victory of the season over Rose­Hulman, Saint Mary's travels to Albion College on Friday with hopes of capturing another win. 
The Belles handily defeat­ed Rose-Hulman 114-77, but Saint Mary's coach Ryan Dombkowski said they will have a much tougher time against 1-1 Albion. Last week, the Belles won six individual events, but the top times of Albion's swim­mers in five of those events are faster than those posted by Saint Mary's last week­end. 
Dombkowski understands the challenge the Belles face, but believes the Belles have a fighting chance. 
"On paper, we don't have the horses to run with Albion," he said. "But sever­al of the e'V'ents should be very close and the point swings could make the meet close if we have the determi­nation to win all of those battles." 
The intensity level and excitement of the team helped Saint Mary's beat Rose-Hulman and must be present again for them to swim well against Albion. 
"The atmosphere of the meet was definitely a factor against [Rose-Hulman]." freshman freestyle swimmer Lindsey Nelis said. "In order to maintain that excitement we have to once again bond 
together as a team and show our support even more." 
Dombkowski agrees, plac­ing the burden of motivation on the team. 
"Great swims come from preparation and motivation," he said. "The former I can help to take care of during the week, the latter has to come from within themselves and from their teammates." 
Nelis was one of four Belles to win individual events last week and one of the three freshmen to do so. She won the 1000-meter freestyle in her very first attempt in the event. 
"I had never swum it before, so I wanted to start off well," she said. "Also, my counter was very helpful. She would tell me when I needed to go faster and how close my competition was." 
The team's freshmen have been swimming well in the past two meets, taking five of Saint Mary's seven indi­vidual victories in those con­tests, Dombkowski hopes freshman Meredith Lierz can break out as well. 
"She's a young swimmer with a raw talent for sprints," he said. "If we can refine her technique and her races, she has great poten­tial." 

The Belles need to fo'cus in order to match up against a ~ talented Albion squad. 
"Albion is much faster than Rose-Hulman up front and even deeper," Dombkowski said. "We would need to have several upsets to have a chance, but that's why you swim the meet." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


-. 
page 24 
... 
The Observer + SPORTS 
move into a tie for first place in the CCHA, putting them in great shape as they get into the bulk of their conference schedule in the next few weeks. 
"Trying to get to Joe Louis [Arena, host of tho CCIIA tournament championship[ is our first goal, but right now we just want to focus on tomorrow night," Sciba said. "Getting a victory Friday night would be huge, so we can't really look beyond that." 
Tickets for the game have already sold out, but 500 seats will be available for Notre Dame students on a first come, first served basis. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu Friday, November 17, 2006 

Hockey 
continued from page 28 
150-pound sophomore goalie Jeff Lerg. Last year, Lerg 
-was named CCHA Rookie of the Year, as well as MVP of the conference tournament. He posted the seventh-best save percentage in the nation at .928. Lerg held the Notre Dame offense to three goals in their two wins over the Irish in his rookie season. "This weekend isn't going to be about scoring the pret­ty goals. It'll be about scor­ing those rebound goals in front of the net because of the way they play their defense," said Sciba, who has one career goal against the Spartan netminder. With the way goaltender Dave Brown and the Irish defense have been playing so far this year, the team won't need to worry too much about filling up the net. The defensive unit is cur­rently the top-rated squad in the nation, allowing only 11 goals in their first 10 con­tests. "As long as we stick together out there and shut down their top couple lines, I think we will be fine," O'Neill said. The Spartans top line, made up of three sopho­mores, is led by Tim Kennedy, who has scored all of his team-leading six goals in the past five games. Kennedy also has three assists in the current hot 
streak. He is joined by fellow sophomore Tim Crowder, who is in the middle of his own five-game point streak with two goals and six assists dating back to the team's 7-5 win over Sacred Heart Oct. 28. 
Notre Dame's young guns have also been performing at the top of their game recently. Sophomore center Erik Condra was named last week's CCHA Player of the Week and the also received national player of the week honors from InsideCollege Hockey. com. Condra had two ·goals and three assists in last week­end's two home wins over Bowling Green. 
With a win and a tie this weekend, Notre Dame could 


Kenney 
continued from page 28 
Two years later Kenney man­aged to walk on to play with the Irish. 
"It was nerve racking," he said. "[Irish coach Charlie I Wcis was really upfront with us. Pretty much everyday you weren't sure if you would be cut but it was a great experi­ence." 
Kenney said 
he is dedicated "It piqued what he will do. A to playing his career in politics is
[Schwarzenegger's]

role as the a possibility, but he
interest to hear

opponent's also is exploring defense week that I was a his options with in and week graduate schools.
football player. I 

out on the Kenney also
asked him for some

practice field wants to stay and getting the advice on how to involved with the starters ready game somehow
gain some weight

to take the field after he hangs up
and get bigger." 

on Saturdays. his cleats this win­
Off the field, ter. Although he Kenney has Tim Kenney never wants to step leaped into pol­into Weis' shoes,
Irish defensive back 
in Puebla, Mexico in order to help with supplementary Spanish major. Kenney was nervous about missing football and campus for such a long period of time but he had to leave in order to fully learn the language. 
"If I had to do it again I don't know if I would want to be away from Notre Dame that long," Kenney said. 
At the end of his time here in South Bend, Kenney is still 
uncertain about 
where he will go or 

ities with a two summer intern­ships -one in Springfield, Ill and the other in Los Angeles. While in the city of angels, he interned under governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and met the ex-movie star. 
"It piqued [Sehwarzenegger'sl interest to hear that I was a football play­er," Kenney said. "I asked him for some advice on how to gain some weight and get bigger." 
Although the Governator did­n't have any helpful hints for beefing up, the experience was something Kenney will not soon forget. 
Kenney also spent a semester Kenney would love 
to coach at the high school level or for youth programs in the future. 
Kenney said Belvidere's defensive backs coach was a role model for him both on and off the field. 
"He is real good guy who is easy to get along with, but he is very serious when it comes to football," Kenney said. 
He wouldn't mind returning to the Bucs to coach along with old mentor, and continue to surround himself in football tradition. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu Friday, November 17, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 


Citadel 
continued from page 28 
tions on the Leopards the next night, jumping out to an early lead and coasting to a 92-60 win. 
After playing two games in two days, Irish coach Mike Brey ran his team through a light workout and film ses­sion Wednesday before giv­ing them Thursday off. Brey himself was sick Thursday and unavailable for com­ment. 
The Citadel comes into Sunday's contest 1-2 with losses to Michigan State and Iowa and a win over Ohio Valley. The Bulldogs will play Charleston Southern Friday before heading to South Bend. 
Guard Vytautus Valiulis leads The Citadel in scoring with 10.0 points per game, while forward J'Mel Everhart has dominated the boards by grabbing 11.3 rebounds per game. 
The task of keeping Everhart off the glass will go to Notre Dame forwards Luke Harangody, Luke Zeller 
and Rob Kurz. Harangody, a freshman, is averaging 15.7 points and 
7.7 rebounds so far this sea­son. Kurz is Notre Dame's leading rebounder at 8. 7 per game and is averaging 13.0 points per game. 
Zeller is averaging 5.3 points and 3.3 rebounds per game this season. 
Carter is Notre Dame's leading scorer with 18.3 

points per game and fellow guard Colin Falls is the only other player averaging dou­ble figures for the Irish, with 
10.3 points per game. 
The two seniors have com­bined for 16 three-pointers this year on 46 percent shooting from behind the arc. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

DAN COOPERffhe Observer Irish guard Russell Carter drives by IPFW guard Quintin Carouthers in Notre Dame's 92-49 win Nov. 10 at the JACC. 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 


Penn State hands Irish first loss of '06 season 
Lady Lions pounce ahead early, stay up in blowout victory 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer  
There for the night.  was Irish  no  comeback Thursday  

After falling behind 15-2 to Penn State four minutes into the game, Notre Dame never recovered -losing 75-49 at State College. 
"When you have a young team like this, you really need things to go well early I think to get a little confi­dence," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "We made some nice runs eventually. But that was just a little hard for us to overcome." 
123 W. Washington St 

4343 Grape Rd.
Downtown South 

Mishawaka (across 
Bend (1.5 blocks west 
the street from Kohl's)
of Hall of Fame) 

272-9464
232-2293 
After a Tulyah Gaines jumper tied the game at 2-2 early in the game, the Lady Lions went on a huge run, capped by a three-pointer from guard Kamela Gissendanner to stretch the lead to 14. 
Notre Dame (2-1) was 0­of-4 from the floor in the run and 0-of-2 from the line, in part because of Penn State's tough defense throughout the game. 
"We missed some open shots. We missed some free throws when I don't think they were guarding us as tightly," McGraw said. "We needed to get better shots I think. I have to credit their defense with that." 
The Lady Lions (4-0) held the Irish to only 27-percent shooting from the field and dominated Notre Dame in the paint. Penn State had six blocks to Notre Dame's 
two, and out-rebounded the Irish 39-27 -32 on the defensive end. 
Leading this inside stand was center Amanda Brown, who notched 12 points and eight rebounds for Penn State. 
Because of this defense, Notre Dame was unable to get things started offensive­ly all night. Irish starters center Melissa D'Amico, guard Breonna Gray and forward Crystal Erwin totaled six points combined. 
Notre Dame also lacked a spark off the bench ­something freshman Ashley Barlow brought against Bowling Green Monday night with her 16 points and 10 rebounds. Notre Dame's bench was outscored 30-19 by the Lady Lion substi­tutes, led by freshman guard Tyra Grant -who scored a game-high 19 points. 
"Our sixth, seventh and eighth man are all freshmen so when we do sub, we get younger," McGraw said. 
Another problem for the Irish in their comeback attempt was Penn State's ability to shoot the three. In the closing minutes of the first half, with Notre Dame down only 12 points Lady Lions guard Adrienne Squire drained a three to stretch the lead back to 15. As the second half began, Squire (nine points) contin­ued her shooting display with another three to count­er two Tulyah Gaines free throws to extend the score to 40-24. 
"I thought they looked like a veteran, poised team play­ing at home," McGraw said. "They really, to me, seemed to have a good equal-oppor­tunity type of offense where everybody contributes." 
The Irish return home Sunday at noon where they 

......
will try to rebound against Western Michigan. The Broncos (0-2) have been a high-scoring team in their two losses, putting up 80 points per game this season. 
"We just need to turn around and try to rebound against Western Michigan," McGraw said. 



STUDE. TS!!! 
Buffalo wild wings has 2 great locations for all your study break needs, From our award winning wings, to the best selection of beer in the area. Our original store in downtown south bend, and our new one on grape road, are hands down the best 2 places to watch all the big games!! 
Every nil gatne, all the big college games! Now students can get our award winning wings for 35cents 4 days a week!!! 
South bend store: 

Mishawaka store: Monday nights-catch the MondayNFl Sundays-35 cent wings with 
night game with 35 cent wings from 8­student ID. $1.75domestic bottles in the close (with student id) $3 tall coors lt.
bar. Every nfl game Tuesdays-Wing Tuesdays!! 35 cents all
Wing Tuesdays-the original wing 

day!!!
day---35 cents all day!!! 

Boneless Thursdays-
Student Wednesdays-need more 
50 cent boneless wings&wings? 35 cents w/ student ID from 7­

$2.75 microbrew pints
close, $2.25 pints of lite in the bar. 12 big screens, 53 tv's, free ntn trivia and
6 big screens, 31 tv's, free ntn trivia, texas hold 'en1, and all the big games! !
all the big games!! 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa@nd.edu 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 17, 2006 
Sweet 16 
continued from page 28 
years, they will face an upstart Colorado squad (14­5-4) led by a national fresh­man of the year finalist striker Nikki Marshall. In her first season as a Buffalo, Marshall's 17 goals and 38 points have set nine school records. Colorado won a pair of 2-1 games against Colorado College and Denver last weekend in Boulder to earn the trip to Alumni Field. 
Notre Dame, meanwhile, enters the match after beat­ing Oakland (Mich.) 7-1 last Friday before struggling to get by Wisconsin-Milwaukee in what coach Randy Waldrum called one of the closest games in the seven 
years he has been at Notre D a m e Freshman Michele Weissenhofer scored in the fifth minute, as the Irish held on the rest of the way for the win, despite only outshoot­ing the Panthers 9-7 ­
"We're just really focusing on making sure our touches are good, getting used to this awful weather." 
Kim Lorenzen Irish captain 
Notre Dame's closest margin on the year. 
"I think we were a little slow in stepping up with the outside backs in to cover some of the positions in the wide areas of the field," Waldrum said. "We spent some time this week refresh­ing it. It wasn't anything new they threw at us. We just didn't deal with it well." 
Irish senior captain defender Kim Lorenzen said 
In addition to Irish health, the weather may affect con­ditions on the pitch, which has been rained on all week. However, precipitation is 
Notre Dame's defense will need to control the ball more than they did Sunday to give themselves the best chance to win. 
"On Sunday we found our­selves defending a lot," Lorenzen said. "In opti­mal situations we don't want 
"1 "larn-"1 prn 
Cappy Gagnon 
Notre Darne Baseball Greats 
"1 prn-3prn 
Tom Pagna 
The Phantom Letters 
3prn-Sprn 

"As disappointing as I thought the performance was, I'd be shocked ifwe don't come out Friday very good. " 
Randy Waldrum Irish coach 
expected to stop several hours before game time. 
"We're just really focusing on making sure our touches are good, getting used to this awful weather and getting used to these condi­tions," said Lorenzen about practice this 
to be defending as much as we are." 
Waldrum said the Irish defense will face a danger­ous challenge tonight in Marshall and Co. 
"She's deadly fast," he said. "They're going to be one of the bet­ter teams we've played this year if the video tape holds up when we get them here in person." 
The Irish should be aided by the return of senior defender Christie Shaner 
who sat out last weekend due to illness. Although Shaner and sophomore Brittany Bock did not prac­tice Wednesday, Waldrum said they were precautionary measures due to the rainy weather this week. He expects both to play tonight. 
week. "Because chances are it will be like that Friday." 
Whatever the weather brings, Waldrum expects his team to be focused and ready, 
"At least this time of year I guess you can't be too criti­cal if you're still playing the next game. As disappointing as I thought the performance was, I'd be shocked if we don't come out Friday very good. The kids have had a good week of training. 
And they know. They don't need us to beat !last Sunday's game] to death all week. It's behind us. We can't go back and replay that game." 
Admission for the first 100 students to arrive at Alumni Field will be waived, as the Irish play potentially their penultimate home match this season. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 


NCAA 
continued from page 28 
and there certainly aren't any easy games in the round of sixteen," Irish coach Bobby Clark said Wednesday after Notre Dame's win over Illinois-Chicago. "Maryland's the defending national champs. We're very aware of 
the enormity of the task ahead of us." 
Notre Dame surprised the two-time defending champion Indiana Hoosiers 2-0 in Bloomington to advance to the Sweet 16 of the NCAA tourna­ment last sea-

in their first year at Notre Dame in 2003, the Irish advanced to the third round before falling to Michigan on penalty kicks. One year later, No. 5 seed Notre Dame was upset in the second round by Ohio State. And last year's team followed its upset win over Indiana with a 1-0 loss at Clemson. 
Punching a ticket to this year's Elite 8 will not be easy 
"Maryland's the defending National Champs. We're very aware ofthe enormity ofthe task ahead ofus. " 
Bobby Clark Irish coach 
son for only the third time in school history. 
Now the 2006 Irish will try to do what neither the 2005 team nor any group in pro­gram history has been able to do -advance to the quarter­final round of the NCAA Tournament. Despite Notre Dame only having four appearances in the third leg of the NCAA Tournament ­including this year -many of the Irish players are in a familiar situation. 
When the senior class was 
for Notre Dame. 

Maryland looked every bit the defending National Champion on Wednesday night -defeating red­hot St. John's 2­0 in their second round matchup. The Terrapins held a 17-6 advantage in shots on the 
evening, and their two goals ended a St. John's 674­minute shutout streak -a Johnnies school record. 
Maryland, who is currently No. 7 in the NSCAA/adidas national rankings, enters Saturday's game 16-4-1. Including Wednesday night's victory over St. John's, the Terrapins have won 13 con­secutive NCAA Tournament games played in College Park. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

S.ATURDA"Y'.,. NOV. 18 
9:30arn-"1 "1 :30arn 


Connie McNamara 
Angie Jurkovic Go Irish 
Notre Darne 
Coloring and 
Activity Book 
"1 "1 :30arn-"1 :30prn 


Karen Heisler 
Jason Kelly 

Fighting Irish Legends, 
Mr. Notre Darne 
Lists and Lore 
"1 :00prn-2:00prn 




SCOTT ADAMS

JOCULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM

CROISSSANTWORLD 
W£\...1.., -rt-te. L.A'S.T HOME. 

foars;>.. I..L uA ME­
foR us SEt-IIO~S. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Universal Human Rights

George Orwell, Mo. 
e.g. 
31 Middle measure 

11 Hotel room 
32 Settled

amenity 34 Will do
15 Cabin locale 36 Mob money 
16 di bravura units 
(piece showing 
38 Breeze (through)

off a singer's vocal agility) 39 King or queen 
43 "Goodness activity, jocularly 
17 Oscar night 
gracious" 47 Modern site of18 Darn 

ancient Thebes 19 Coil 
48 Drum part W American Indian 
50 U.S. 

organization 
51 Serotonin, e.g. ~2 Honey, in 
52 Breezed throughprescriptions 

54 Kind of test 

~3 Duct opening? 
55 Hardly a good ~4 First narne in friend country music 
56 Nash ~5 Take marks off contemporary 58 Awning site
~7 Red and white, e.g. 59 Skinny 
1\NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

61 Animals that are nearly invisible to infrared detectors 
63 Scotland Yard discovery 
64 Cooler by the shore? 
65 Tearing things? 
66 Vocal pessimists 
DOWN 1 Restaurateurs' banes 2 "Antony and 
Cleopatra" role 3 "_what?" 4 Foreboding 5 Univ. dept. 6 Pirate tale 
feature 7 Some shoe material 8 Harmonious wholes 9 Crescent 
10 It follows that 
11 Sorry 12 Language of the 
Talmud 13 Smoothness 14 They're small 
and may be golden 21 Some eastern Canadians 26 Denounce 28 Encourages 29 Blows a gasket 33 Party person, informally 
TH·E OBSERVER 

0C«> NE'INS E\J E F.'jOe-l E. ' 
we. A~ C:IOI....Sl4 To "" EON\.. I 1).(£ ''NA..,-rP,£SS (:r \A"lT1' ANP " DP\1.. -11\..E. 
C.OF-1>()12.1'\T I ON.. SOW\... 
i'\'ilS \S ""11-4£. S.1:~.tf'"F 
l>Ft.E.AKS AAE. MAt>E. 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Nancy Joline 35 Texas hold 'em, 41 Investment 49 Assayer's 
e.g. sales charge area of expertise
37 Spring training 42 Cage in site for the Hollywood 53 Andrea Cincinnati Reds 
44 Queen 
57 Huge 39 "The Silence of 
Elizabeth I had 58 Delight
this 45 Holiday spot in 60 Pained the Lambs" role 
40 Within the realm 

el Meditemineo replies
of people's capability 46 Slips by 62 Outlaw 
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ATLAN 
j
I [I [) 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
SUROC 
[IJ 
NAHZIG 
rJ 
1 

www.jumble.com 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

HOW THE: MANI­C.Uf<E: STUOE:NT 010 ON HE:f< FINAL-E:XAM. 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
A ·~r I I I I I I J"r I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow)' 
Yesterday's  Jumbles: Answer:  AHEAD BASIN WALLOP Why they watched the hula dancers­ CASHEW  
IT WAS A "HIP" SHOW  

EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Maggie Gyllenhaal, 29: Oksana Baiul, 29: Tammy Lauren, 38: Dwight Gooden. 42 
Happy Birthday: You don't usually ask for favors or help but this year you must. Let ke) people know what you are trying to do and you can move forward. This time, take the hell that is out there. It's all about seeing how far you can get this year. Your numbers are 4, 10, 23, 38, 33, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Don't let your emotions cause you to make a fuss over nothing. If you take a moment, you will realize you may be acting out of jealousy. Spenc time concentrating on what it is you are supposed to be doing. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will find it difficult to hide the way you feel or to dea with people who challenge you. Added responsibility will develop because of an older relative, child or a love gone awry. You have to make wise choices. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Think big. put yourself on the line and look for any means to advance, make positive changes or learn something for the future. A social connection made today may tum into a business opportunity in the future. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Someone might not like the choices you are making but you have to be honest with yourself. Don't lead someone on --it will only hold you back or cause you to miss out on getting to know someone who can make a difference to your life. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Someone will come to your rescue and, if this person suggests you rid yourself of some things in your life giving you grief, do so. This is a good time to buy or sell items or property. It will help you clear the air and move on. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a unique approach to whatever you do today. A partnershi1 may be changing slightly but this can actually be to your benefit. Lay down some new ground rules and speak honestly about your feelings, your plans and your intentions. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't try to put the blame elsewhere. Own up to your mistake: and you can turn things around quickly. A vehicle that will allow you to express yourself emotionally will help and guide you to do the right thing. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't let someone push you around by professing to kno\! more than you. You may be younger or less experienced but you also have a good sense of what you can do and how you can accomplish things. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Nothing will be easy for you to see today. Don't let someone give you a false impression or push you to make a decision you aren't ready to make. Be sure of where you are headed before you burn bridges. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't let your emotions influence your decisions. Lool at your future. lf you aren't clear about something, ask questions but don't make your min< up based on an assumption. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Stick to the rules and the truth. A problem with technica equipment will cause a misunderstanding. Money can be made if you are straight about the way you are going to make it. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take a trip or get involved in a group that will make you think about your current lifestyle. It may be time to get involved in a bit of a health regime A good idea can turn into a cash growth. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are proud, reserved and observant. You are strong-minded and will stick to whatever you believe is right. You are a mediator, peacemaker and a protector. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultation. 

..
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Published Monday through Friday, The 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic yearObserver is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint D Enclosed is $55 for one semesterMary's Community. 
NameJoin the more than 13,000 readers who have Address _____________________________________found The Observer an indispensible link to the 

City ______________ State _______ Zip_______ 
two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 


... 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, November 17, 2006 
page 28 
HOCKEY 

Spartans lllarch into Joyce Center for historic lllatch 
No. 5 Notre Dame welcomes No. 4 Michigan State for most anticipated home hockey match since Feb. 5, 1999 
tonight. Muon Ice Arena will be tele­emotions get the best of us." "This weekend presents a· By DAN MURPHY The Irish (8-1-1). now No. 5 vised by Comcast starting at 7 O'Neill has four career huge challenge to us as a 
Sporrs Writer 

in USCHO's national poll, will p.m. points (one goal, three team, and I think everyone is face off against No. 4 "It's going to be exciting. assists) against the Spartans, looking forward to that chal­
Seven years ago, No. 4 Michigan State (5-2-1) in a It's our first big chance to which leads all current Irish lenge," Sciba said. Michigan State and No. 9 home-and-home series this prove ourselves," senior players. Senior wing Josh The biggest test for Notre Notre Dame played to a 2-2 weekend. The action starts at defenseman Wes O'Neill said. Sciba is not far behind with Dame this weekend is tie in the last showdown 8:05 and will be nationally "We just need to come out two goals and an assist in his Michigan State's 5-foot-6, between top-1 0 ranked teams broadcasted by CSTV. and make sure we stay on an eight career games against in the Joyce Center -until Saturday night's game at even keel and not let our Michigan State. see HOCKEY/page 24 
ND SOCCER 
Colorado stampedes 
into Alumni Field for round of sixteen 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Assistant Sporrs Ediror 
After squirting by Wisconsin-Milwaukee last Sunday 1-0, Notre Dame hopes to regain its top­ranked form against the Notre Dame region's No. 4 seed Colorado tonight in the Sweet Sixteen round of the NCAA Tournament at 7:30 at Alumni Field. 
Though the Irish are mak­ing their 12th NCAA Sweet 16 appearance in the last 14 
see SWEET 16/page 26 

Sweet cookin' 


Left, Irish forward Michele Weissenhofer crosses the ball in a 3-1 Notre Dame win over St. Johns Oct. 29 at Alumni Field. Right, Irish Forward Justin McGeeney tackles In a 2~ Notre Dame home win Oct. 25. 
Defending National Champs stand in way of Irish and Elite 8 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sporrs Writer 
When No. 12 seed Notre Dame takes the field Saturday against No. 5 seed Maryland in College Park, the Irish will not only have a chance to advance to the Elite 8 for the first time in school history -they will also be attempting to knock off the defending National Champion for the second con­secutive year. 
"There are no easy games in the round of thirty-two, 
see NCAA/page 26 
FOOTBALL 
Kenney focuses on sport, political life 

-.  By DAN MURPHY  
Sporrs Writer  
For 6-foot, 180-pound defen­ 
sive back Tifn Kenney, donning  
the blue and gold for the past  
two years has fulfilled  a  life  
long aspiration.  
Kenney grew up just over  
- two hours away from campus  
in Belvidere, Ill. He is a third­ 
generation Domer, with both  
his father and grandfather  
having graduated from Notre  
Dame.  
"I grew up wearing a  gold  
- helmet and being a Notre Dame fan all through high  

school," Kenney said. 
Kenney kept himself busy by captaining his football, basket­ball and baseball team in his senior year. He was All-State in football in his final season. That year he had 70 tackles and two interceptions for the Belvidere Buccaneers. 
The political science and Spanish major headed to the University of Illinois for his freshman year of college. He was in the process of walking on to their team when he learned that he had been accepted to Notre Dame. 
see KENNEY/page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Bulldogs make trip to South Bend 
Falls and co. to face The Citadel Sunday 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sporrs Editor 
After splitting a pair of games in Indianapolis against Butler and Lafayette, Notre Dame returns home Sunday to 

play  The  
Citadel at  See Also  
the Joyce center at  "Senior Dance"  
4 p.m.T h  e  Irish Insider  
Irish (2-1)  

lost to the Bulldogs 71-69 Monday after senior guard ALLISON AMEIROl3EIT 
see CITADEL/page 25 
Irish guard Colin Falls, right, defends IPFW guard Chris Perkins in Notre Dame's 92-49 Nov. 10 at the Joyce Center. 


SMC SWIMMING
Nil WOMEN'S WW.l 
NO SWIMMING 

ND VOllEYEUUl SMC BASKETBAll NCAA FOOTBAll 
u.l c.,) Penn State 75 

Notre Dame at
Saint Mary's at 
Saint Mary's atMinnesota Invite 

West Vir~nia 45 z Notre Dame.49 
CincinnatiAlbion Wheaton Pittsburg 27 
Mountaineers running ~ Lady Lions freshman 

Nov. 17-19
::5 

Tonight, 6 p.m. 
back Steve Slaton and ~ = to lead Penn State over guard scores 19 points 
Today, 5 p.m. 
Today, 3 p.m.
Notre Dame travels to The Irish face the quarterback Pat White

The Belles go on the 
The Belles face Div. illMinneapolis to face No.
c:c 

~ the Irish. 
road as underdogs in 

Bearcats in the Big East No. 5 Wheaton in presea­
combine for 399 rushing quarterfinals. 
16 Gophers in 13-team 
dual meet againt Albion. 
son tournament. 
yards in win. 
field.

! en !;: 
page 23 
page 22page 23 page 22 page 19page 25 

~ 
'' 

~ ~ 

There's one group to thank for the Irish revival 
It took them a little while to get going, not that that was surprising. A few freshman struggles are expected. A leg­endary program's ineptness isn't. 
Notre Dame football didn't know how to win when Brady Quinn of Dublin, Ohio, and T o m Zbikowski of Arlington Heights, Ill., and John Sports Writer Carlson of Litchfie Id, Minn. and Jeff Samardzija of Valparaiso, Ind. and Victor Abiamiri and Ambrose Wooden of Baltimore, Md., entered school four years ago. 
It was broken. One eight­game stretch aside, Notre Dame -the most prestigious football program in America -had been a national side note for 10 years. 
Four years later, Quinn, Zbikowski and the rest of the Notre Dame football team is different. 
It's a winner. 
The reason? It's not Charlie Weis' offense or faster players or longer grass. It's one word. 
Toughness. 
This senior class is the toughest in school history. Not one group has endured more hard times. Not one group has turned those bad experiences after touchdown in West into wins, wins and more Lafayette two years later. wins. It's Rhema McKnight, keeping 


It's handled the pressure mind and body fresh through that goes along with being the injury and returning to the most talented members of a starting lineup a better player. team, even as freshmen, when It's Samardzija, growing his Ryan Harris was starting at hair and his legend with each offensive tackle and Quinn passing game. was slotted at quarterback. It's Zbikowski, reinventing the It's handled a firing that many punt return from flashy to pun­didn't agree with. It's adjusted ishing. to a new coach and a new sys­There's others too. tem. John Sullivan hated losing 
And now, it's paying off. too much to let it happen on 
Notre Dame has a shot at a his watch. Wooden has taken national title. Thank Kansas more criticism than anyone; State. Thank Georgia. But but all he does is pick his head most of all, thank these sen-up, smile and play. Chinedum iors. Ndukwe doesn't get the public­
They're the reason that ity of his pro boxing secondary Irish fans mate, but he can talk hits just as 
national title One eight-game stretch hard. 
this late in These sen­
aside, Notre Dame -the
the season iors have 
for the first most prestigious football gone from time in over program in America -Insight Bowl 13 years. losers to one
had been a national side 
That's a of the most long time for note for I o years. publicized, the greatest Four years later, Quinn, recognized program in and success­
Zbikowski and the rest of
college foot­ful groups of
the Notre Dame football 
ball history college foot­to go without team is different. ball players serious signs in America.
It's a winner.
of life. Of course, no 
It's these matter how seniors that talented and brought it back. tough everyone else is, noth­It's Quinn, enduring sack after ing would have come together sack against Purdue as a fresh­without Quinn. man, only to toss touchdown Dublin Coffman's favorite alum, the senior quarterback hands of Pittsburgh, Boston couldn't have known what College and BYU; records of 5­was in store for him. His 7 and 6-6; blowouts at home to freshman year, Quinn was USC and Florida State. interviewed on ESPN's "The They were the future of a Season: program Notre Dame with not
It's these seniors that 
Football" much of a after highly brought [the Irish] back. future. touted They didn't
It's Quinn, enduring sack 
recruits and listen when
after sack against Purdue 
brothers everyone Chris and as a freshman, only to said Notre Greg Olsen Dame foot­
toss touchdown after
had just quit ball was
touchdown against 
the Irish done, was squad. the Boilermakers two just like 
" w h y years later. everyone 
would any­else.
It's Rhema McKnight, 
one want to They leave leave here?" keeping mind and body h e r e 
he wondered. fresh through injury and Saturday, 
A f t e r with legacy
returning to the starting 
Saturday, intact. But Quinn won't lineup a better player. they aren't 
be back. He'll It's JeffSamardzija, finished. 
be off in some A young
growing his hair and his
big city, win­Ryan Harris 
ning NFL legend with each passing said he games and game. wanted a few calling Weis national on the week-champi­ends looking for pointers. onships by the time he gradu­Maybe they'll talk about the ated. An older Harris and his class that started it all -that classmates just might get one. took a dormant program back They've come too far to stop to its rightful place. now. Quinn and his fellow seniors stuck it out past The views expressed in this Willingham's firing, Kent column are those of the author Baer's one game as head and not necessarily those of coach and the Urban Meyer The Observer. search. Contact Mike Gilloon at They endured heatings at the mgilloon@nd.edu 
CHINEDUM NDUKWE 

Ndukwe's all right talking about his best friend 
Receiver-turned-safety was forced to drop 20 pounds to keep his starting job for final season 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
Many of the questions Chinedum Ndukwe fields center on his relationship with quarter­back Brady Quinn. But Irish coach Charlie Weis directed a fair share of focus toward the 6­foot-2 safety's size last spring. 
Sophomore safety Ray Herring played his way up the depth chart in March and April, and Ndukwe's job security became an issue. 
"It was known throughout everybody that a couple of younger guys were doing well," Ndukwe said. "You can't really let that worry you. You always have to improve yourself as an 
individual first to help the overall team." 
If Herring's play didn't worry Ndukwe, Weis lit a fire under the receiver­turned-safety, who tipped the scales at nearly 235 pounds. 
"Coach set a challenge in front of me," Nduwke said. "He's like, 'I 
hit home because the safety respected the coach's thorough understanding of personnel adjustments. But Ndukwe isn't so sure that Weis wasn't just using a mental ploy to improve the defensive back's play. 
"Everything the coaches do is for a reason," Ndukwe said. "Coach Weis, for instance, is really into the psychology behind sports. I'm not sure ­who knows -but he could have just done that to set a fire in me." 
And Ndukwe would know. The business major with a concen­tration in consulting has a dual major in psychology. 
"That stuff definitely sparks my interest in a lot of ways," he said. "People do a lot of things 
· 
"Coach set a challenge in front ofme. He's like, 'I want you to lose 20 pounds.' But I was still pretty cut up. I was like, 'From where?' ... He basically said ifI didn't do that, I wasn't going to play." 
Chinedum Ndukwe Irish free safety 
for different reasons." 
Ndukwe came to the school after his brother Kelechi graduated from Notre Dame and his sister graduated from Saint Mary's. But he came with more than just a family legacy. 
The person Ndukwe is clos­est with at 
As they entered Notre Dame together, their friendship helped Ndukwe adjust to the new col­lege setting. 
"When you're going to school a lot of times you might not know anyone," Nduwke said. "First day of school, you're actually driving with a person.... You're actually coming with somebody, coming with your best friend." 
Ndukwe said their friendship has only grown through the past four years. Calling Quinn "a brother" to him, Ndukwe said he never minds answering ques­tions about his high-profile pal. 
"When you love someone, when you care about someone -you can talk about them for­ever," Ndukwe said. "There's always things I can talk about Brady because he's close to my heart. He's been like a brother to me." 
And that applies both in media sessions and while the two are together away from the football team. 
''I'm usually with Brady a lot off campus, so [people] usually just assume I'm 'Ndukwe'," the safety said. "So I just roll with the flow." 
As the high school friends' relationship has thrived at Notre Dame, so have Ndukwe's rela­tionships with his teammates. Ndukwe started at safety as a junior, after switching from wide 

"Every person's situation is dif­ferent," Ndukwe said. "Even though they're on the same team as you, they all have certain adversities. They all have ups, than his career high entering the 2006 season. 
"Throughout the past couple years, it's been a roller coaster ride of emotions," he said. "The 

want you to Notre Dame receiver in his sophomore sea­they all have downs, and it does success of this team is beyond
lose 20 pounds.' But I was still was Quinn. He was Quinn's No. son. bring you closer together, imagination. Having a great pretty cut up. I was like, 'From 

1 target at Dublin Coffman High While that may have been a because that's what a team is all time, it's been worth everythingwhere?' ... He basically said if I School in Ohio, catching 150 difficult adjustment, Ndukwe about." we've gone through." 
didn't do that, I wasn't going to 

passes for 2,17 4 yards and 24 said, everyone has their troubles Ndukwe's senior season has 
play." 

touchdowns during their high at times -and those similar been his best, and his 22 tackles Contact Ken Fowler at Ndukwe said Weis' statement school days. experiences create bonds. against Air Force were 14 more kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Friday, November 17, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Tough enough to handle 
Why Brady Quinn is who he is and how he's evolved through the years 
Editor's note: This story first ran receive an invitation to the as a starter in his first two years 
Dec. 12, 2005. Reisman ceremony in New York under former coach Tyrone Oty, his name's appearance on the Willingham. Though his numbers ballot made the statement -were improving, through his soph­
By PAT LEONARD 
while Weis has been the master­omore season, the team was not. 
Sports Writer 
mind behind the success, Quinn Coming from a competitive and ha.<; been its catalyst. athletic family -Brady played Robin Quinn knows Notre Dame "I think that the success of our baseball, basketball and football coach Charlie Weis places heavy offense can definitely be pinpoint­into high school at Dublin­responsibilities on his quarter­ed to the progress of Brady," Weis Coffman; his father Ty played backs, so she figured her son said. baseball and wrestled; his younger Brady would have welcomed the Quinn's path to prominence has sister Kelly plays soccer at two years to prepare for such a been rocky at times, but always Virginia; his older sister Laura disciplined and demanding deliberate. played field hockey and softball offense. and even modeled -Quinn 
"I said, 'Aren't you glad you got The big boys always has been a perfectionist. Coach Weis your junior year?'" The Dublin, Ohio native has "When we were younger and Quinn's mother recalled asking been able to deal with adversity at we had catches, he would throw it her son. "Because I was thinking Notre Dame because he experi­-and obviously he has a really to myself had he been a freshman, enced similar athletic obstacles at hard throw -and I could never just 18, getting the starting posi­a young age. catch it," Kelly Quinn said. "He'd tion, that would have been over­When Quinn's Dublin Football get so frustrated at me and say, whelming for him. League (DFL) travel team played 'Catch the ball, Kelly."' 
"[Brady] goes, 'No, that probably Gehanna in sixth grade, the oppo­Notre Dame's 31-point losses to would have been easy as a fresh­sition included some seventh-, archrivals, then, did not sit well man because that's all you know."' eighth-and even ninth-graders -with a kid who had the most 
The junior quarterback's com­players who were more physically organized desk in his first grade ment could make Irish fans day­developed. class. dream about what could have "Brady was always a good-sized "He was always a very intense been, or it could explain why Weis' kid for his age, but not like these child ... always a perfectionist ­offense developed so quickly and kids," his mother said. "One kid in any sports he did, with his efficiently in less than a year with was probably 6-feet tall, 200 room, with his outfits," his mother 18-to 21-year old college kids. pounds." said. "Maybe he role-modeled me 
At this time last season, Quinn Quinn took a vicious hit that sent a little bit." (6-foot-4, 231 pounds) was not him off to the sidelines. 1-lis uncle And every perfectionist desires thinking Reisman. And he no David, a coach at the time, made a complete control over assigned longer is this year, or so he says. comment that stuck with Quinn's tasks. Enter Charlie Weis, and a But following a career season in mother as one of the most signifi­system that gave Quinn the free­which he set numerous Irish pro­cant developments in her son's dom he wanted, the discipline he gram records, the confident junior athletic career. needed and his first dose look (9­quarterback has gained national "He said, 'Brady, look. This is 2; last-second loss to undefeated attention for being the arm of totally your decision, but there USC) at what perfection in college Notre Dame's resurgence to a BCS comes a point in your life when football means. bowl. you play sports where there's a 
First-year coach Weis has been difference between playing injured Grown up the face. and playing hurt,"' his mother Quinn controls most of Notre 
Weis brought an offense that said. '"If you're hurt or your Dame's offense at the line of already had credibility from his pride's hurt, and you think you scrimmage -at least he has the three Super Bowl wins with the can get back out there, do it. But if freedom to. Weis has mandates New England Patriots. But for you feel like you've really got an like any coach, but his major many doubters, Quinn has proven injury, you should sit down."' demand calls for someone not the offense can work at more than Quinn shook his head, shook off wearing a headset on the side­one level of football, and that he the hit and finished the game. lines, Quinn, to take control. Quinn's 32 touchdowns-to-seven scrimmage and playing in the has everything to do with why it Fast forward to 2003, his first "The quarterback has to be an interceptions ratio already has game," Quinn said. "I learned that does. start as a college quarterback on extension of [Weis] out there on helped him capture the Sammy there was a lot more to playing 
He garnered seven first-place the road at Purdue -59 passing the field, and while it's tough, I've Baugh Award -presented to col­quarterback in different systems votes in Saturday's Reisman attempts, four interceptions, only got to be somewhat of an exten­lege football's top passer by The and in our particular offense than Trophy balloting after throwing one touchdown, one sack and a sion of what he wants in terms of Touchdown Club of Columbus, I had realized before." for 3,633 yards and 32 touch­slew of hurries, knockdowns and leadership and making decisions Ohio -and be nominated for a But while Weis believes quarter­downs and shattering almost hits. as the quarterback," Quinn said. host of others. back recruits should be lining up every Notre Dame passing record The raw talent showed, but the His maturity and confidence "He's more vocal in the huddle, for the chance to play for an NFL in 2005. beating was brutal. have contributed to nothing short taking charge and being more offensive mind like his, he under­
Former Irish coach Lou Holtz "I don't like to hear that word of a Notre Dame offensive revival. aggressive," said wide receiver stands Quinn's value as more than said Quinn "never flinched" in his [Purdue], every time I think of that In 2004, the Irish averaged 218 Maurice Stovall, who has caught just a good listener. game-winning drive at Stanford as a mom," his mother said. yards per game passing. Quinn 60 passes and 11 touchdowns In the case of Quinn's develop­Nov. 26 in a 38-31 win. Quinn would have to live by his had 1 7 touchdowns to 10 inter­from Quinn this season. "His men­ment, it's not only what the offense 
"[It was] just ho-hum, another uncle's words for a while. The ceptions, and the offensive line tal aspect of the game as far as has done for him, Weis consistent­day at work," Holtz said prior to losses hurt. gave up 25 sacks. Now, as the watching film and reading defen­ly says. Notre Dame's success is the Notre Dame football banquet Quinn's statistics improved as he 2005 season concludes, Notre sive coverages [has improved, just as much about what Quinn on Dec. 2. gained more game experience, Dame averages 334 yards passing also]." does for the offense. 
And though Quinn did not even but he won just nine of 21 games and has given up only 16 sacks. Quinn's statistics have accumu­Whether or not the Heisman lated, the quarterback said, in Trophy voters recognize Quinn as part because Wei'> has taught him being worthy of a New York City a lot about erasing short-term visit, the junior knows his place ­memory and not dwelling on mis­short ofthe ultimate goal. takes. And Quinn has been able to "Everyone who is there [for the receive that advice and apply it -Heisman announcement) is unde­no matter how harshly the coach feated and playing in the national instructs at times -because of his championship," Quinn said. "So mature attitude. it's hard to argue that you should 
"I think that Brady was mature be there when you're 9-2 and enough to realize regardless of the playing in the Fiesta Bowl, instead personality or if there had ever of the Rose Bowl." been a personality conflict -Even Weis, who coaches with a which it sounds like [Brady and demeanor of rationality and tough Weis] get along perfectly fine -love, had problems with Quinn not that Brady knew he was going to receiving the invite. But his quar­respect and appreciate what terback has come even further, to Coach Weis had to add and bring the point at which he is so realistic to the table," his mother said. and poised and prepared for deci­
Quinn has endless and acute sions thrown his way-and about observations about how he has recognizing the improvements still learned from Weis beginning in required of him -that he can spring practice and continuing handle anything. into his BCS bowl preparation. And if that doesn't work, he can 
"[This offense] places a lot of always audible. responsibility on the quarterback, 


Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn leads the Irish out of the tunnel before their Oct. 15 game against and it deals with a lot more men­Contact Pat Leonard at No. 1 USC. Quinn passed for one touchdown and ran for another in the 34-311oss to the Trojans. tal things coming up to the line of pleonard@nd.edu 
Man of promise 
Defensive end Victor Abiamiri was a prep standout in Baltimore. Four years later, he's back to show how far he's come with the Irish. 
Editor's note: This story the best influences I've had in first ran Oct. 27, 2006. my live," he says. "They, and 
my own father, turned me By KEN FOWLER from a boy into a man." Sports Editor Wooden remembers his 
teammate Abiamiri starting at safety as a freshman, all 6­Victor Abiamiri has made a foot-4 and 215 pounds of him name for himself. roving in the secondary, ready His attitude is fierce and to make a play. The big man pointed, his intelligence sharp was then known as "Ookie and his football knowledge Rock" -a nickname Wooden top notch. He draws double says comes from Abiamiri's teams because one man sim­dancing. Abiamiri jokingly ply isn't enough. said he will haunt Wooden 
NFL scouts drool when they (called "Mo" since childhood) see a 6-foot-4, 270-pound for remembering it. defensive end with the Irish One day "Ookie Rock" inter­senior defensive end's foot cepted a pass and started speed and power. His body running down the sideline. size and weight are perfect "We were going crazy," for the position, and what Wooden says. NFL teams see is upside -He remembers the "big and something people have always goofy" Abiamiri looking seen in him. toward the end zone. 
A native of Randallstown, "He didn't make it," Wooden Md., a Baltimore suburb, says with a chuckle. Abiamiri returns to a home crowd for the contest The personality switch Saturday following two games His teammate would in which opposing quarter­become a defensive end with backs often found themselves a mean streak that stands in looking at dirt, then turning stark contrast from his other­up to see a white "95" bulging wise soft, intelligent persona. from a deep blue jersey. Off the field, he seems more 
But Abiamiri didn't first peace-seeker than quarter­pick up any of his coveted back hunter. traits from a whistle-blowing Brady Quinn laughs about drill sergeant or a pull-your Abiamiri's Jekyll and Hyde. teach coach. Abiamiri's path "Vic," he says, is "one of to football stardom started those guys that's a lot of fun with a head coach and defen­to be around." sive coordinator who had a "It's tough to put into simple mantra: "Fifty men words," the Irish quarterback working together, loving each said with a smile. "He's one of other, cannot be beat." those big, mean guys that 
really doesn't like to be mean. Growing up Gilman I think that's why he kind of 
Abiamiri and Ambrose likes playing football because Wooden never met until he's able to go out there on August of 1999. They've gone the field and dish it out on the to school together ever since. field and be happy." 
Wooden, now an Irish cor­For Abiamiri, it's simple. nerback, remembers when he When he's on the football first encountered the hulky field, he's looking to scare Abiamiri in football practice opponents. Off the field, he's at the beginning of their the man Poggi and Ehrmann freshman year at Gilman helped form. School on Baltimore's north­He says he applies the les­ern edge. sons he learned 
"He was prob­from Poggi and
"He came in and was
ably the same Ehrmann "in size he is now, about six-four, 250 as a the locker maybe 40 freshman -about the room, in the pounds lighter. dining hall, in
same size I was as a
I saw him and the dorms." he said he junior. There are two Abiamiri says dunked in fifth things you have to be to he makes sure 
grade," the 5-any teammates
play as a freshman ­
foot-11 Wooden who are upset 
says with a talented and smart. or down know smile. "I was And he was both., they can turn like, wow, I any situation can't even dunk around with
Brady Quinn 
now." hard work. The two Irish quarterback Yet when would spend inches away the next four years under the from an offensive tackle tutelage of two men -Gilman before the ball is snapped, all head coach Biff Poggi and vol­he's trying to do is intimidate. unteer defensive coordinator "I actually don't think it's Joe Ehrmann. The two have a that tough to change your unique coaching style that mentality," he said. stresses brotherhood over Gilman School's motto is competition. simple: "Turning Boys of Their focus on teaching Promise into Men of players how to become men Character." -is so different than other Abiamiri has always had a programs that Abiamiri calls lot of promise. Gilman "probably the only place in the world" to get the The position switch kind of coaching he did. And Poggi and Ehrmann moved he soaked it up. Abiamiri to the defensive line Abiamiri says Poggi and after his freshman season, a Ehrmann have been "father move that Baltimore high figures" to him. school football would never "They're probably some of forget. As a junior, he had 17 

sacks. As a senior, he record­aeross the country are once ed 12 more and threw in an again looking at his promise interception, for old time's and potential. sake. Projected by some to be a 
For colleges across the first-round piek, Abiamiri is country, he was the defensive playing under the careful line stud of his graduating eyes of seouts. Like he did class. during his senior year of high 
"He was everyone's No. 1 at school by announcing his defensive end out of high eommitment after the season school," said Tom Lemming, a finished, Abiamiri is pushing longtime national recruiting any NFL Draft talk aside. 
analyst.  Like  every  
"Basically every school in  "He's one of those big,  other player  - Irish and  
the country was going after h.lm. " After a long  mean guys that really doesn't like to be mean. I think that's why he  most in eollege football -he says it would be too much of  
recruiting peri­od and at least one report of  kind oflikes playing football.,  a distraction. Thinking about the weekly  
recruiters try­ jumps  and  
ing so  desper­ Brady Quinn  bumps  from  
ately to Abiamiri  get that  Irish quarterback  analysts ESPN's  like Mel  
they  flouted  Kiper would be  

NCAA rules, the academics at overwhelming. Notre Dame lured one of the It would keep him from his nation's top prizes to South mental preparation, he says Bend in 2003. -keep him from doing what 
"Teams saw his size and he needs to do to help his speed," Lemming said. "He team win now. had long arms and long legs, And one of the best ways and he was explosive off the Abiamiri ean help his team ball." now is by freeing up other 
Playing defensive end, a Irish defenders when he faces tough image can help, too. double teams. Abiamiri has earned that on "Vietor has put himself in a the field, with 17 career position now where teams ­sacks, including six this sea­when we go against anybody, son and eight in 2005. they know where Vietor is," 
Even before he had any, Irish coach Charlie Weis said. Abiamiri was confident. Just "I think that he's drawn some ask former Irish weak side special attention." end and current New York A lot of that special atten­Giant Justin Tuck, who tion comes from big games, Abiamiri says took him under like the two he's had against his wing during their two Stanford. In 2005, he recorded years together at Notre Dame. four sacks in the final game of 
"He came in and was about the regular season. This Oct. six-four, 250 as a freshman -7, he added another three about the same size I was as against the Cardinal. a junior," Tuck said. "lie told "All you can do is help your­me he would compete with self by foeusing on the game me for playing time." at hand every week," he says. 
That year alone, Tuck had If Abiamiri stays as focused 
13.5 sacks. Nonetheless, as he has been, it'll help the Abiamiri saw significant Irish in the short term and ­action. The freshman started come April -pad his wallet. five games and played in all After his performance 12; he registered 22 taekles, against Stanford and then his including four for losses, and sack and two more quarter­a sack. back hurries against UCLA 
"There are two things you last Saturday, Kiper has have to be to play as a fresh­Abiamiri shooting up to No. 10 man -talented and smart," in his "Big Board" list of the Tuck said. "And he was both." best draft prospects in the 
nation. Eye on the motor man Weis credits much of 
More than 40 games after Abiamiri's success to his ever­Abiamiri first suited up for ehurning legs and foreeful Notre Dame, pro teams from body push -and that, the coach says, is something NFL seouts love about the senior just as much as his physique. 

"The one thing I do know about [Abiamiri] that I didn't know when I got here is that he has a very, very, very high motor that goes with his ath­letic ability," We is said. "There are a lot of people with athletic ability that don't have a high motor !but] he goes high on every play. It presents a problem week in and week out for any roffense] that we go against." 
The home option 
Abiamiri will try to be a problem once again Saturday in an important game for the senior. He says he managed to get 15 to 20 tickets for family members in the Baltimore area to see his first -and only -collegiate game in the area. 
"It's awesome to be able to go home and play in front of family and friends," he said. 
But against an option team, his job is a little different. 
He will have to replaee his bull rushes and swims with mental foeus and sharp disei­pline. As offensive taekles bloek toward the center of the line and fullbacks come full­steam-ahead toward the cor­ner, Abiamiri's task will be mueh different. 
"We might not even bloek ol' Victor, much less double him," Navy eoaeh Paul Johnson said Tuesday. "We will read him on the option." 
That means Abiamiri will be foreed to wait out Midshipmen quarterback Kaipo-Noa Kaheaku-Enhada as he scur­ries to the eorner. If Abiamiri takes the wrong angle or bites at the wrong time, Navy could run right through the Irish defense. 
"It's the most frustrating offense in all of football," Tuck said, glad no NFL teams run it against the Giants. "You need a lot of mental preparation." 
Abiamiri thinks he has that. He thinks he'll be able to stiek to his man on every play and be patient. 
For most defensive ends, that patience is tough. But for one who's used to being as ealm off the field as he is fear­some between the sidelines ­maybe not. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 


Friday, November 17, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 
Tough, 1Zibby' style 
Strong safety Tom Zbikowski leads Irish defense with attitude and experience 
Editor's note: This story first anything that Tommy does that he takes and goes from the ran Sept. 16, 2005. he doesn't do competitively." classroom to the practice field As Notre Dame attempts to and can take things from inside end Michigan State's winning [to the] outside. You talk about
By PAT LEONARD streak in South Bend, one of the a game plan, [and] he can go
Sports Writer 
"real leaders" of the Irish has a out on the field then and start message to convey. to work on executing it." 
The offensive player in him "Them coming in and winning The strong safety's discipline just wouldn't shut up. Tom four straight in our place is real­and work ethic are contagious Zbikowski needed the ball, and ly not acceptable," Zbikowski and evident. Though he red­he needed it now. said. "You can't let teams come shirted as a freshman and has 
It had been since high school into your place and win at only played one full season for that Zbikowski had run an hom.e." Notre Dame, Zbikowski gained offense, when he played quar­And like that, "Zibby" -as the reputation as a confident terback, safety and returned they call him nowadays -has and experienced player unusu­kicks at Buffalo Grove High developed a Keyshawn Johnson­ally quickly, simply because Sehool in BufTalo Grove, Ill. But esque attitude that says 'Throw people noticed his style. one touch of the ball was all he me the damn ball,' per the title "He's not a boisterous guy, wanted. of the former Southern Cal but it's very easy for his team­
Never mind that he had receiver's book. Except mates to see what he's all already intercepted Michigan Zbikowski doesn't say he wants about," Lewis said. "Because State quarterback Stephen the ball. everything he does on the field Reaves to set up the first Irish He just takes it. he does full speed." touchdown on Sept. 18, 2004. That speed was fast enough 
On a routine Michigan State Zibby the student to gain recognition as Gatorade running play to tailback Jason Zbikowski's classroom is not Player of the Year in Illinois Teague, with the score tied 7-7, always in a school building, Zbikowski's senior high school Zbikowski zipped through the with 8,000 other undergradu­season, when he threw for line, tore the ball from Teague's ates and textbooks. His class­1,382 yards and 11 touch­hands and bolted 7 5 yards for room, and that of his team­downs, rushed for 1,287 yards the end zone before even Teague mates, is also the room where and 23 touchdowns. racked up could say, "Who's that guy?" he watehes film; where coach­41 tackles and made three 
Everyone knows now. es dissect the past week's interceptions. 
The 5-foot-11, 208-pound game; where head coaches USA Today tabbed him as a strong safety made nine tackles show tape of mistakes, and first-team All-American. The and intercepted Michigan quar­mistakes only, in past years' Chicago Sun Times labeled him terback Chad Henne at the goal losses. the Chicago area player of the Zibby the teacher the same page, as teachers and line last Saturday. He is the most Irish head coach Charlie Weis year. And Notre Dame made Zbikowski could have walked as competitors. experienced defensive back in a showed his squad similar film him one of their top recruits. onto the practice field in the secondary that, though early in of Notre Dames' last four home Hight now, fifth-year senior spring, turned to face the quar­Zibby the player the season, seems to have made losses to the Spartans this linebacker and defensive cap­terback, looked to his left and Football is his sport, sure. But huge strides from a rough cam­week. But, as Lewis describes, tain Brandon Boyte is already right, and felt completely lost. Zbikowski is also a veteran paign last year. Zbikowski has the toughness a leader on defense. But He was the only starter boxer who takes hits as well as 
And to top it all otT, Zbikowski and ability to respond to such Zbikowski's command in the remaining in the defensive he gives them. was named special teams cap­motivation and encourage secondary also distinctly bene­backfield, albeit one that sur­He competed in the Golden tain for this week's game against teammates to do the same. fits the younger players and rendered too many passing Golves program beginning at the Spartans because of his con­"Tommy tries to do every­the entire defense -he called yards and touchdowns through age nine, compiling a 60-13 tributions on punt returns. thing the way he's coached to the defense's practices before the air last season. Zbikowski amateur record and earning a 
"Tommy is one of the real do it," Lewis said. "He's very the Michigan game "sloppy." instead saw the new season, national rank. He was also a 
leaders of our football team," easy to coach. "It's not just his confidence," with the new coaching staff, as Silver Gloves national finalist in defensive backs coach Bill Lewis "What is so important, and Weis said. "It's his understand­an opportunity. 1998, '99 and 2000. said. "I don't imagine there's what I appreciate about him, is ing of playing." "Whenever he sees something His multiple talents, within 
that I could possibly be doing football and without, distinguish better, he'll mention it," said Zbikowski as an athlete and ­starting free safety Chinedum as Lewis describes him -a Ndukwe. "That's just the kind of competitor. Though the experi­guy he is. He'll step up to say ence in the ring is completely 'Maybe you need to take that separate from his efTorts on the one more step when you hit field. the strong safety found a someone' or 'Take that extra correlation. step when you're backpedaling.' "[Boxing and football] are two 
"He knows what he's doing different sports," Zbikowski back there. He has a good foot­said. "But I guess boxing has ball mind." always helped me in all my 
Ndukwe is not onlv new to the aspects [of football]. When starting secondary. He is new to you're winning, you've got to defense altogether. The former know how to survive without wide receiver, who caught getting knoeked out." touchdowns from Brady Quinn Notre Dame finds itself in that at Dublin Coffman High School exact predicament Saturday in Ohio, is still getting used to against a team that has had the tackling rather than catching. Irish's number in Notre Dame 
But as Weis has observed Stadium. Despite coaching and through spring practice, fall win streaks and rebounds from practice and the early season, unsuccessful seasons, it takes the coach believes Zbikowski attitude to reverse trends, win has had an obvious positive games and prove a point. influence on less experienced Enter Tom Zbikowski. players like Ndukwe. "What [Michigan State has] 
"Somebody who's been out been saying in the media, they there and who's seen things don't really have any fear when happen at full speed -chang­they come in to play us," he ing every week -is different said. "But we've got to put fear than someone who just goes in them." through it in training camp," And as the Notre Dame Weis said. "I think when you defense grows, on the shoulders have that settling force that of a young man who stands checks you in and out of the under 6-feet tall, so will the right coverages and adjusts for­abilities of a player who still has mations [like Zbikowski does], it a long time to improve-scary, really takes some of the pres­isn't it? sure off you that you have to be "I think as we go down the the sole adjuster, especially road, every week I'm going to when it comes to the second­raise the bar on Tommy and ary." expect more of him," Lewis said, 
Zbikowski said he believes his "because I think he's got that role is to get his teammates kind of ability." 
Observer 

ready on a week-to-week basis, much along the lines of his Contact Pat Leonard at coach's mentality. They're on pleonard@nd.edu 

Tom Zbikowski, left, runs off Heinz Field after the Irish beat Pittsburgh 42-21 on Sept. 3, 2005. Zbikowski has been a staple in the Notre Dame secondary the past three seasons. 

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 17, 2006 
RHEMA McKNIGHT 

Medical man 
Wide receiver had ACL surgery last fall, spent time with sick and injured children since 
Bob Morton and quarterback change his perspective.By ERIC RETTER Brady Quinn have dropped by "As you get older, things Associate Sports Editor on similar occasions. become repetitive and you 
"They do so much for us and don't continue to enjoy every 
During the past 15 months, they never think of it as a big moment," McKnight said. ''I'm senior receiver Rhema deal, but it's a huge deal," she not taking things for granted McKnight has spent a lot of said. "[The kidsl look up to this year." time in hospitals. After tearing them, they wateh them on TV. While he had already estab­his ACL in Notre Dame's sec­They don't think of them as lished himself as the first play­ond game of the 2005, which local TV, they think of them as er to enlebrate in the endzone ended his season, McKnight movie stars." by the student section after spent time in the hospital MeKnight, however, down­home wins, McKnight rededi­rehabbing his injured knee, plays his involvement. cated himself to having fun on which has healed enough to "It wasn't anything serious," Saturday afternoons. allow McKnight return and he said. "She ealled me, asked "A big thing is that I've start each of Notre Dame's ten me if I eould come down, and I lnarned to make sure I enjoy it, games this season. was like, 'Cool. no problem."' because it can be taken away 
Lately, however, he's been As recently as last week, from me at any moment," he returning to Memorial Hospital McKnight met Kowalenko at said. "Winning a football game for a different reason. the concourse of Hesburgh is tough, a lot of people don't 
McKnight has become some­Library to sign memorabilia realize that, and anytime you what of a regular in Memorial and visit Memorial. When he win a game you gotta make Hospital's pediatric ward, visit­arrived, he faced a young sure you enjoy it." ing kids going through tough interviewer who wanted to Despite missing a whole sea­times. know everything from his son, McKnight regained the 
"Last year there was a favorite color to whether or on-field relationship he had teenager that was really facing not he got to choose his jersey enjoyed with Quinn before a lifechanging surgery, some­number. Notre Dame's first official thing nobody would want to go MeKnight, whose favorite snap. through, and he was just color is blue, explained that he "The good thing is we'd done scared to death," Memorial was No. 1 in high school, but it before prior to my injury," pediatric nurse Julie that, upon arriving at Notre McKnight said. "We got to Kowalenko said. "I gave Dame as a freshman, the only picking it back up during the [McKnight] a call, and he did single digit available was No. summer, [andl hopefully we'll not hesitate to come up to the 5, so that was the jersey he keep progressing throughout hospital and spend time with ehose. the rest of the year." 
h. " 

tm. "Rhema answered every sin­In his final season, McKnight 
Kowalenko said she received gle question," Kowalenko said. has been a pivotal player for a letter from the boy's mother the Irish, catching 55 passes, a about a month ago thanking team high he shares with sen­her and McKnight, saying that If things had gone according ior receiver Jeff Samardzija, the ball was his "prized pos­to plan, McKnight would be for 726 yards and 12 touch­session" and that "all of his wearing the jersey of an NFL downs -a team high he owns friends were green with envy.' team somewhere. McKnight, alone. 
saying goodbye to the class he sion for technology. 

From time to time, McKnight who has contributed since his In last Saturday's 39-17 win came in with. "A lot of the schoolwork I also gets letters from the par­first game in a Notre Dame over Air Force, McKnight set "It was tough not being able had was on computers, and [I ents of the kids he has visited. uniform, led the Irish in catch­the Notre Dame career recep­to go through it the first time found] I love computers," he 
After reading them, he gener­es in both 2003 and 2004 -tion record with his 158th 
and watching those guys said. "I love what they have to 

ally forwards them to his with 47 and 42, respectively­catch, and he is not surprised 
leave," he said. offer." 

mother back in Inglewood, and his career was about to that he has had the kind of 
However after five years -McKnight said he followed Calif. take off under then-first year success he has had this sea­

which he noted have seemed the budding interest because "I guess she's making a head coach Charlie Weis's son. 

long at times -he is ready for of current trends in the profes­scrapbook," he said. offense. "In the offense we have, you his home finale. sional market. 

Kowalenko said McKnight's However, the knee injury he know we're going to sling the ''I'm looking forward to it," "That's the way the world's relationship with the hospital sustained in a play in that sea­ball around a little bit," he he said. "There's definitely a going now," he said. 
started when she was intro­son's second play -where he said. "It's more about us going 
different buzz in the air, with "Technology is improving

duced to him through senior still came down with the catch out and making plays." 
the [senior! students, it's their every day, why not pick up-altered the course of his As McKnight's final game at

Brandon Lenk, who was last game, too." something that'll last me a 
McKnight's roommate for two plans. McKnight spent the year Notre Dame Stadium long time." 
years. Kowalenko also noted watching the sidelines, but he approaches, he reflected on 
However, when he first came 

that that Notre Dame center says that year helped him last season's senior day and 
Outside of football, the major to Notre Dame, MeKnight was difference between McKnight's not nearly as well versed in two senior seasons is his aca­the technological language. demic standing. McKnight, "I wasn't exactly the fastest who graduated last December, typer," he said. is currently pursuing a mas­And right now, McKnight's ters degree in psychology. focus remains on football. McKnight said the structure of After the season winds down, his graduate classes offers a he will begin preparing for sharp contrast to his pursuits April's NFL draft and exploring the past four years. the options that he had plan on 
"It's not like everything is in exploring a year ago. Despite class or due the next day," he his focus on preparing to enter said. "A lot of the things you the ranks of the professional do are on your own in terms of athletes, McKnight will still be research." a student next semester. 
He also draws equal contrast Even before his college foot­between graduate student ball career is over, McKnight housing and on-campus dorm has already started thinking life, where he lived until grad­about life after the NFL. uating. "I have aspirations of playing 
"I was close with a lot of in the NFL, but nothing's guar­guys, especially in my section," anteed," he said. "I want to he said. "I had a great time." make sure I set myself up in 
After moving into graduate terms of my long term future, student housing, he lived with whether it's going back to the a FrPnch student until early inner city working with kids or this semester. At the moment, hopefully owning my own McKnight -a consensus practice and doing other psy­extrovert -does not know his chology things." current roomate's name. In preparing to walk away, 
In addition to psychology, McKnight credits his time in McKnight also graduated with South Bend with helping him a supplementary major in get ready for both athletic and Spanish and a degree in com­academic professions. puter applications. "I've come a long way," he 
Perhaps surprisingly, in his said.
I MULit:LO>UNI 
time as a student, he has grown into quite a computer Contact Eric Retter at buff, and he discovered a pas-eretter@nd.edu 


Irish receiver Rhema McKnight, left, battles Cardinal cornerback Wopamo Osaisai for a pass. McKnight suffered a torn ACL in 2005 and came back for the 2006 campaign. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------,-(---------------------------­
Friday, November 17, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
MATT AUGUSTYN AND JOHN LYONS 
The overachievers 
Two walk-ons have a whole lot more than football to fall back on, but their experience at Notre Dame has been shaped by the team 
physical and a workout, where By KEN FOWLER trainers determined whether Sports Ediror walk-on hopefuls would not 
risk injury to themselves or 

In the backfield of Notre other players. lie passed that Dame's scout team offense are test and won an invitation to a fullback who worked as a spring practice to show the parliamentary intern in coaching staff what he could London and a pre-med student do. on his way to medical school. The tailback said former 
Tailback John Lyons and full­Irish running back Jeff Jenkins back Matt Augustyn both gave him advice on the first played football in high school day of spring practice. When but came to Notre Dame for its Lyons admitted he was nerv­academies. Each ended up on ous, Jenkins told him that tlw the gridiron within two years collegiate game was 'no differ­and have been the recipients ent' from high school ball ­of extraordinary understand­'except the players are bigger ing by the coaching staff. and faster.' 
Augustyn was believed to Even though he's still on the become the first player in pro­team three years later, his first gram history to study abroad impression that day was not for a semester while on the the best. team. A political seienee major, "The very first practice I Augustyn traveled to London had, we were on the 'jugs' for his spring semester as a machine," Lyons said. "This is junior and worked as an intern the very first thing I've done in for Adam Holloway, the con­spring ball, the first thing I'm servative minister of doing in practice with the Parliament from Gravesham. team.... The [ball] fires out 
"I was willing to drop it to be right through my hands and on the team," Augustyn said. hits me in the face. Mv mouth "But both [Irish running backs] gua~d goe_s flying ~nd ·my hel­coach [Michael] Haywood and met s on sideways. [head] coach [Charlie] Weis said no, there would be no Drive and recognition penalty. And there hasn't." Augustyn took a slightly dif­
When Augustyn returned to ferent trail on his way to the the States from England, he team. After graduating from took an internship with Our Lady of Good Counsel High Congressman Chris Chocola School in Wheaton, Mel., the for the summer and worked fullback spent a post-graduate out to gain back the 20 pounds year at the prestigious of muscle he lost in London. Phillips-Andover Academy in 
For Lyons, Weis extended his Andover, Mass. understanding during summer New England Patriots coach camp as the tailback prepared Bill Belichick also attended the to take the Medical College school, and Augustyn met Irish Admission Test. coach Charlie Weis, then 
"During the last week or so Belichick's assistant in New of camp, Weis said from here England, during his year on out whatever you want to there. miss, you can stay in your Augustyn deferred accept­room to study to get ready," ance from other universities to Lyons said. study at Phillips-Andover, and 
he jumped at the chance to From physicals toMCATs come to Notre Dame. 
Now Lyons, who was team "I was looking at a bunch of captain and an all-conference other schools, mostly Ivies, selection at O'Gorman High Navy [and Virginia]," he said. 
School  in  his  "But  Notre  
hometown  of  Dame  was  the  
Sioux  Falls,  "Anyone would be  only place I was  
S.D., is just waiting to hear back from med­ lying ifthey said going into Notre  willing to go to give up foot-­ball."  
ical schools.  Dame, walking on  But he didn't  
"I was a decent high school football player," Lyons  with guys who are the best in the country, isn't intimidating."  truly give up football. Augustyn played tight end  
said. "I applied  for Alumni Hall  
to Notre Dame early action and got in here. Not  Matt Augustyn Irish fullback  as a freshman and talked to former Irish  
having football  coach  Tyrone  

offered, I had planned on pur­Willingham about walking on suing academics and just for­to the varsity team as a sopho­getting football. But after more. watching the first season, I Willingham told him to wait decided I had to try out." a year before trying out 
So Lyons filled out the neces­because Notre Damt; had so sarv forms in the winter of his many tight ends. When the f-re.shman year and headed walk-on tryouts came onto the practice field. Augustyn's junior year, 
"People watch the movie Willingham was gone and Weis Rudy and see. 'We're going to was in charge. beat the hell out of you for five Augustyn made the team as days. and whoever's still a fullback, and. he said, felt standing will be the one," said welcomed by the players, Lyons, as his voice deepened to which was important. imitate a movie narrator. "But "Anyone would be lying if that's not really how it is." they said going into Notre 
Lyons said he went in for a Dame, walking on with guys 

who are the best in the coun­try, isn't intimidating," Augustyn said. 
The experience that breaks any lingering ice best, he said, is when the team lives together in O'Neill Hall during August as it gears up for the season. 
"The best time where most people come together is proba­bly summer training camp because that's where you are isolated," Augustyn said. "It's 105 guys, or, in our case, 97 last year, and the coaches and trainers. There's no one else. You talk to you're family for maybe ten minutes before you go to bed. You're up at six, you go to bed at eleven.... You're literally with each other eight­een hours a day. That's where team unity comes from." 
Not an end 
Going forward~ both Lyons and Augustyn hope to continue their education. 
''I'm probably looking to work in the business realm for the next couple of years before I look into law school," Augustyn said. "So that way I have some sort of financial foundation to pay for it, so I'm not 100,000 dollars in debt." 
Lyons said he has other intentions. 
"I just figure I'm going to go dig myself in, nice and deep," Lyons said. ''I'm pre-med so I'm going to take my loans from here and pile on some more loans for med school, hopefully, and go from there." 
But the focus for both right now is on Army. 
With sophomore starter Asaph Schwapp's injury earlier this year, Augustyn has seen the field in late-game situa­tions. 
"It sounds awful, but Asaph's injury -I've kind of benefited from," Augustyn said. 
Lyons is still searching for his first game experience. As the show-team tailback, he's used to facing a first-team 
defense in practice. But that also means he's used to expec­tations of failure. 
"If we're down running scout team, it's sort of anticipated that you're going to lose," Lyons said. "We're going up there against the first-team. We're not anticipating six, seven-yard gains." 
As their final home game approaches, Lyons and Augustyn have worked togeth­er for two years -with the 6­foot-3, 220-pound Augustyn working every practice to open holes for the 6-foot-1, 200­pound Lyons. Now, they hope that work on the show team will replicate itself Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. 
"It would be great to block for John [in the Army game]," Augustyn said. "It would be a fantastic thing." 
Ami if either crosses the goal line, they'll know exactly what to do. 
"All the walk-on guys have 19, 20 touchdown celebrations planned," Lyons said. "Of course you have expectations to do something fun." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 


Nothing off the top 
A nationally ranked wrestler in high school, Trevor Laws is Notre Dame's resident free spirit 
"It's real important for me, in . was the Gatorade Player of the By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
all facets of my life, to enjoy Year in Minnesota and a USA Sporrs Wrirer 
what I'm doing," Laws said. Today first-team All-American. "Especially during games and Laws enjoyed his role as a two­
On a team where the hair­on the sidelines with all your way starter, contributing to the style makes the man, Trevor boys, it's hard not to have a stat sheet and his team from Laws' long, au nature) locks good time for me." three different positions -full­stand out with tlie best of them. While the average defensive back, linebacker and defensive Tom Zbikowski may have his lineman seems to scowl twice lineman. • Mohawk and Jeff Samardzija as often as he smiles, staying But like most two-play ath­his shag, but Laws can admit to loose and enjoying the game letes in high school, he had to setting the trend with his remains one of Laws' priorities face the harsh reality of life as mane. -much to the delight of his a defensive end -the only 
"It's a natural look, man," teammates. touehes he'd get would be ones Laws said with a laugh. "It's "I think Trevor's kindhearted, he'd have to work the hardest nice and easy to take care of, fun-loving personality rubs off for. so I like it." on everybody," Abiamiri said. "It was tough knowing that I 
Except for a brief-and "If things are going tough, he had to give up touehing the ball regrettable -period during his has a good way of' making a every now and then. But I freshman year, the senior joke about things. Anytime I'm looked in tho mirror and knew defensive tackle has kept his around him, I always find that that I wasn't going to be a run­distinct look largely unchanged I'm laughing at him or laughing ning back forever," Laws joked. since his earliest days wearing at myself or laughing at any­"I tried to enjoy what I could In the blue and gold. thing, you know." high school." 
As a freshman, his senior In fact, Laws probably smiles Focusing on teehnique and teammates buzzed down his too much, jokes defensive line strength. Laws has steadily hair to a clean shave. For coach Jappy Oliver. Oliver has tapped the potential of his 6­Victor Abiamiri, Laws' room­seen Laws grow close with the foot-1, 283-pound frame at one mate and a fellow defensive rest of the defensive line over of the toughest positions in lineman, that story remains a the last few years. Aided by football. fond memory -one that their chemistry on and off the "One of his strengths is that reveals as much about Trevor field, Laws and his linemates he's a great technician, takes the person as it does Laws the have become a steady rock for pride in it, and he's just done a football player. the Irish defense. good job for us," Oliver said. 
"He had the hair exactly the "I think that's why I've That attention to detail way he has it now," Abiamiri enjoyed this group so much, served Laws well in another said. "[I remember] all the sen­because they're always ragging high school sport -wrestling. iors that cut his hair, and how on each other -I get on them Although he calls football "his sad he was and how funny he for something, they get on me. first passion," Laws had every "They can't touch me," he ing, Laws has made a point of made it by turning it around. It's a great mix. Trevor's one of reason to consider attending a joked. noticing the little things about 
"He made a negative thing the characters of the group," top-notch wrestling program his life at Notre Dame, whether into a positive thing. That's said Oliver, pausing for empha­like Iowa or Minnesota. Living the great outdoors it's in the huddle or relaxing Trevor in a nutshell. He'll take sis. "Probably the character." He helped his Apple Valley A proud native of Apple with his teammates. 
things that might not be going Oliver isn't the only member High team to three consecutive Valley, Minn., Laws exudes a "Every time you go out on the his way and turn them into a of the Notre Dame football fam­state titles as a sophomore, Midwestern warmth he credits field ... you remember those lit­positive." ily to use the word "character" junior and senior. He finished to his family and friends. An tle moments within the game," 
to define Laws. his career with a 142-5 record admitted outdoorsman, he Laws said. 'They are so numer­Service with a smile "When I first met Trevor, he (49-0 his junior year) that enjoys camping, wakeboarding ous, but it's hard to recollect 
With a geniality his team­was the same way he is now," made him a three-time All­and summer snowboarding in right now. Looking beside you mates love and admire, Laws sophomore middle linebacker American and the No. 1 heavy­the off-season. and knowing you have guys that overcame his Samson moment Maurice Crum said. "So I was weight wrestler in the nation. As the middle of three chil­you can count on so much is a with a smile. Still, he can bare­like, 'Man, who is this charac­"I took up wrestling to dren, Laws fondly remembers great thing." ly comprehend that his Irish ter here? Is this guy ever seri­improve my football skills, his first brushes with football -Laws hasn't yet made up his career may be coming to a ous?' But once I saw him on actually," Laws said. "I also in the front yard with his two mind about returning for a fifth close. the field in play, I was like, 'I love wrestling, but I always brothers. year, saying that a lot will 
"Time flies, it really does. I see when he gets serious."' knew that if I was good enough "My family's real close and depend on projections of where can't believe that I'm a senior to make it in football, it would we're always doing something he'll end up in the NFL Draft. [with] some big choices coming 'A great technician' prepare me in terms of agility." as a family. They're a big part of For that reason alone, his team­up here," Laws said. "It's just As a person, Laws has Laws' teammates are no my life," Laws said. mates and coaches are savoring all about enjoying it, man, changed little from his fresh­strangers to the tackle's shifty Both of his siblings attended the remaining time they'll have these moments. You've got a man year -he's still smiling. moves on the mat. Senior offen­the University of Minnesota, with him. Even if those memo­short time here, so just try to But on the field, his progres­sive lineman John Sullivan -where his younger brother is ries involve serving up a good enjoy it while you're doing it." sion over the last three years another nationally ranked still an undergraduate. meal, another of Laws' many 
Laws' easy smile and cheerful has been hard to ignore. heavyweight wrestler in high As for Laws, a marketing talents. disposition have made him pop­"From the first time I met school -is a prime target for major, entering the workforce is "One great thing I can say ular among his teammates and him till now, he's grown as a the occasional rumble for old still a few years out depending about him is that he's a great his coaches. When he's not ter­person and as a football play­time's sake on how long he pursues a profes­cook," Abiamiri said. "He whips rorizing the opposing team's er," Oliver said. "He's getting While these throwdowns are sional career in football. Beyond up some good pasta at times ... backfield, Laws can often be better and better." more infrequent nowadays, the gridiron, his dreams revolve He's got some good eats." spotted laughing and cracking A highly touted recruit com­Laws has made his wrestling around sports marketing. As for Laws' best dish? jokes on the sidelines. ing out of high school, Laws supremacy loud and clear. ''I've been looking into that Abiamiri doesn't hesitate. 
lately; maybe help marketing for "Probably his barbecue chick­a pro team or something like en with baked beans and corn that," Laws said. "It's pre-tty bread. He does that pretty interesting." good," he said. 
For now, though, he's still got Whether it's his play on the time left in South Bend. When field, his antics off it or his Laws gets nostalgic, his most excursions as a wrestler, chef vivid memories aro those involv­and prankster, it's clear that ing the deafening roar of a Laws will be missed when he erowd, whotiHw it was at a road hangs up his gold helmet -by contest down in Tennessee his his teammates, the fans and the sophomore year or playing spoil­program in general, according er to a top-1 0 Michigan team at to Oliver. home. "That personality is conta­
"One of the first games I gious, now," Oliver said. played in,was versus Michigan "Because whnn somebody's lin 20041," Laws said. "Every­down or they're hurting, if body rushed the field and I got you've got somebody who's got a in for the game. I. got a [taekle grc~at spirit about them and can for loss] like one of my frrst few put a smile on somebody's face, plays in there and I remember that picks them up. That makes going crazy, so that was a big them practice harder and work moment for me." harder. 
"We'll miss a lot of that, Iron chef, animated warrior because he's contagious." FRANSESCA SETA/The Observer With the last two games of the 


Irish defensive tackle Trevor Laws (98) jumps on the pile as teammate Derek Landri (66) sacks UCLA season -and possibly the end Contact Rama Gottumukkala at quarterback Patrick Cowan during Notre Dame's 20-17 victory over the Bruins Oct. 21. of his collegiate career -loom-rgottumu@nd.edu 
BOBBY RENKES 
Texan will head home for position with KPMG 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
Bobby Henkes has always been a good student. 
When the Dallas Morning News named Henkes one of the top-20 players in the region as a junior in high school, "the Texas schools" began recruit­ing the place kicker. But a leg injury in the second game of his senior season kept him off the field so much that it scared away the Lone Star State's top three universities -Texas, Texas Tech and Texas A&M ­from offering Henkes a schol­arship. 
"It was kind of tough because I thought I might have been able to get a scholarship," Henkes said. "But it was really sort of a blessing.... Had that not happened, I might not have ended up at Notre Dame." 
But the diligent student had some other options. Several Ivy League schools showed inter­est in Henkes, and his grades opened other avenues for him to attend a football school. 
He turned down those presti­gious universities in the Northeast and enrolled in South Bend as a non-athlete who still had hopes of wearing a college uniform. 
Four years later, Henkes will graduate a semester early, take more classes in the spring and begin his professional career with financial power­house KPMG back home in 

Dallas. Dame connection," Henkes "He kind of took me under 
"I'll save my parents a said. "Just talking to anybody his wing," Henkes said. "Every semester's worth of tuition," at the Chicago office, every­time he comes up for a game Henkes said. body from Notre Dame [who he calls me about the tailgate." 
Henkes interned with the works for KPMG] goes to Henkes has gotten into four firm last summer and jumped Chicago. But as soon as Dallas games as Notre Dame's kickoff on the chance to work as a knew that they had a chance to specialist this season -starting certified public accountant, get a Notre Dame person, they at the position from Georgia provided he passes the CPA were all over it." Tech through the Michigan exam. And it was the kicker's Henkes said Dallas KPMG State game. He averaged 61.4 school -not his sport -that partner Rick Ehrman, a Notre yards per kickoff on 21 helped him fit in with the com­Dame graduate, was one of his attempts before freshman Ryan pany. best influences during his Burkhart (29 attempts, 58.9­
"It was amazing, the Notre internship. yard average) took over the starting job. 
"If I didn't see the field one bit, I would have been just as happy being a part of the Notre Dame team," said Henkes, who didn't start playing football until his standout junior season in high school. 
After playing soccer "forev­er," Henkes saw his first colle­giate action on the gridiron only three years after his first­ever football appearance. Against Stanford in 2004, he had three kickoffs of 58, 59 and 50 yards -the last being a touchback after a personal foul penalty against the Cardinal. 
"It was a little overwhelm­ing," said Henkes of that first appearance. 
Henkes got five more starts that season, making 20 more kickoffs with three more touch­backs. He finished the season with 1,319 yards for a 57.3­yard average. 
Henkes didn't see any action as a freshman or junior, but the senior with a 3.674 GPA (and 3. 733 GPA in the spring of 2006) is happy with his four years at Notre Dame. 
"I always grew up thinking of Notre Dame as a great school to go to," Henkes said. "I looked at a lot of the Ivy League schools for academic purposes and a lot of the other schools for football purposes, and Notre Dame was the one that really put the two together." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1@nd.edu 

GEOFF PRICE 
Price always was the Kid with the Big Leg 
The senior punter's first coach was his father; a technique change boosted his yardage this summer 

By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
From the time he first kicked a soccer ball, Geoff Price has been the Kid with the Big Leg. 
The senior Notre Dame punter discovered his talent while playing the "other foot­ball" in early elementary school. 
"In soccer, when I played goalie I could punt the ball really far," Price said. "It start­ed out as a hobby and then I realized I had a little talent." 
Price's journey from talented elementary schooler to Division I starter has been a process of refining his tech­nique and trying to harness the howitzer leg he was blessed with. 
His first coach was his father. 
"One day my dad and I were out in the yard and he punted a spiral and I said 'Wow, how did you do that?' Price said. 
Later, Price gave up soccer and became a standout high school punter in Colleyville, Texas and college football opportunities started rolling in. 
There was only one place Price wanted to go -South Bend, Ind. 
"I was a big [Notre Dame] fan growing up," Price said. "I remember coming home from a soccer game and seeing them DUSTIN MENNELL.A!TheObserver on TV and wanting to come After waiting In the wings for three season, Irish punter Geoff here. It was a life long dream." 
~Ice has averaged over 45 yards a OOot •_s_a_s_t_a-rt_e_r·-------H-is_fi_r-st-th_r_e_e-ye_a_r_s_p_l_a_y_in_g for the Irish were frustrating, dom. however. Behind D.J. After punting just twice his Fitzpatrick on the depth chart, first three years on campus, Price struggled with his consis­Price has averaged more than tency. He would boom kicks 60 45 yards per kick this year and yards and then have one go off played a key role in several the side of his foot or, worse, Notre Dame victories, especial-
get blocked.  ly  the  14-10  
Price  knew  defensive strug­ 
what he had to do to correct the problem, but for some reason he  "My problem was trying to kick the ball too far, and I was  gle victory over Georgia Tech Sept. 2. With the suc­ 
couldn't put it into practice. "When I was kicking and D.J.  overstriding. Now I try to stay short and compact and  cess, Price has experienced a sudden celebri­ty.  
would see some­thing, he would  it's paid off."  "It's been fun," he said. "There's  
try to correct me," Price said. "I would do the  Geoff Price Irish punter  been a lot more attention. A lot more people  

same thing with him. In fact, I think I could explain things to him better than I could do them myself." 
Then, once Fitzpatrick grad­uated and Price was thrust into the starting lineup this year, everything suddenly clicked. 
"My problem was trying to kick the ball too far, and I was overstriding," Price said. "Now I try to stay short and compact and it's paid off." 
Price practiced by putting a towel a couple of yards in front of him and making sure he kicked the ball before he got to it. Suddenly, he was consistent and talented. 
come up to me 
and say 'good job' and I have no idea who they are. I've gotten some ran­dom IMs and Facebooks. I try to take it all in stride and enjoy it, because how often does that happen?" 
Price has another year of eli­gibility remaining, an option he will discuss with Irish coach Charlie Weis after the season. But right now the Kid with the Big Leg is focusing on the pres­ent. . 
''I'm not too concerned about next year now," Price said. "Right now I'm just living in the moment with this team." 
Contact Chris Khorey at 

It_w_a_s_th_e_r_e_c-ip_e_f-or_s_t_a_r---c-kh_o_r_ey@_n_d_._ed_u____________: 
RYAN HARRIS 

Of faith and football 
An anchor of the Irish offensive line, Ryan Harris has gone from reality show star to freshman All-American to aspiring politician 
Editor's note: This story first  lines.  
ran Sept. 29, 2006.  "Especially being a bigger  
By KATE GALES  kid when you're younger, you go to a sport where they need  
Associare Sporrs Ediror  bigger people," said the 6­ 
foot-5, 292-pounder. "It's defi­ 
MTV. ESPN. Next up, C­ nitely something you can  
SPAN?  enjoy and be yourself in."  
Notre Dame senior left tack­ He was widely recruited out  
le Ryan Harris has started 36  of high school, but his deci­ 
games on the Irish offensive  sions came down to two  
line and been featured on  schools -Notre Dame or  
MTV's "True Life" series - Miami.  
but he really wants a career  "For all the reasons that  
in politics.  people love Miami, I loved  
It might not be the typical  Miami,'' he said.  
life path for a student-athlete,  But his family loved Notre  
but Harris isn't typical.  Dame, and Harris felt it fit  
He's a devout Muslim at one  what he wanted in a school.  
of the nation's most famous  "I wanted to come out with a  
Catholic universities, where  degree that meant some­ 
he embraced living on campus  thing," he said. "I also wanted  
and being part of the Notre  to have the most competitive  
Dame community. After foot­ athletic schedule and environ­ 
ball, he's thinking about law  ment I could, and Notre Dame  
school and politics.  -it doesn't get better than  
But right now, he's ready to  that."  
help the Irish offense get back  
on track -even though his  His own celebrity fit club  
football career got off to an  Harris was the smallest line­ 
inauspicious start.  man at Notre Dame when he  
arrived, and one of the small­ 
'I don't know how' to hit  est -if not the smallest - 
The Minnesota native  lineman recruited in his year.  
remembers watching the  That's why, when MTV's  
Minnesota Vikings at family  "True Life" wanted to do a  
events, sitting alone in front of  segment on positive weight  
the television and trying to  gain, they called up Cretin­ 
make sense of the game.  Durham and asked for Harris.  
Later, he'd go to his father­ The segment aired without  
who played college football at  much fanfare for Harris and  
the University of Wisconsin­ his family at home. But when  
Stout ­with questions.  he arrived at Notre Dame, it  
"My first question I tried to  was clear that more than a  
figure out was why they  few people had seen the show.  
always ran into where every­ So did his new teammates in  
body was, up the middle," he  South Bend make fun of him?  
said. "When they were run­ "All the time," he said. "I  
ning the ball, why don't they  mean, all the time, especially  
just run around everybody?"  when I first got here as a  
Over time, he picked up on  freshman. That was the joke,  
the nuances of the game. But  they were calling me names,  
eighth-grade football brought  MTV, you can imagine coming  
another humbling moment.  in as a freshman. They're just  
''I'll never forget the first  looking for a reason to get on  
day we got pads," he said.  you, that was definitely my  
"Everyone made fun of me  reason."  
because someone said, 'Hey,  Some on-lookers told him he  
let's hit,' and I said, 'No.' And  needed to gain 50 pounds to  
they're like, 'Why not?' and I  be successful as a college  
said, 'I don't know how.'  offensive lineman.  
Everyone laughed at me."  Maybe that's not quite right.  
Retelling the story, he even  He's gained about 17 in the  
laughs at himself. He can  past four years and was on  
laugh now because, as a  several preseason All­ 
standout at Cretin-Durham  American award watch lists.  
Hall in St. Paul, Harris starred  Over the most recent off­ 
on the defensive and offensive  season, he focused on strength  




AP 
conditioning, particularly in his upper body, which he per­ceived as a weakness. 
"I needed to get stronger," he said. "And that's still some­thing I strive for, something I worked on all summer, from May until -well, I'm still working on it." 
On down the line 
Harris' first start was at Pittsburgh in 2003 -an upset victory for the Irish and a memorable experience for the true freshman. That was the night Julius Jones broke the school rushing record with 262 yards. 
He played right tackle and started the final eight games of the season for the Irish, becoming only the third true freshman in Notre Dame's his­tory to start for the unit. Rivals.com rewarded him with a first-team spot on its Freshman All-America team, and The Sporting News had him as a second teamer. 
As a sophomore, Harris moved to left tackle, one of football's most challenging positions, to protect Irish quarterback Brady Quinn's blind side. 
"I think there's a lot more expected of you,'' said Harris about the position. "I expect a lot of myself. I was very hum­bled because there's so many things that come with being the left tackle, so many things that I can take pride in, I just think being there's been real fun for me." 
Offensive linemen are judged by the success of the unit, and most of the facets of the offense depend on how strongly it plays. Harris has embraced the opportunity to excel as an individual and as part of a group. 
"You've got four other guys," he said. "If one of you makes a mistake, it can cause prob­lems across the board. As a unit, you protect the quarter­back -everything starts there. If we don't protect, Brady can't throw to IJeffJ Samardzija or Hhema [McKnight] or anyone else." 
And then there's the running game. 
"If we don't block, Darius [Walker] can't run in the holes and he can't get yards," Harris said. "We really take a lot of pride and onus of responsibility on ourselves, and that's what makes it so special, to be part of a unit and also being an individual." 
At times, left tackle is a lonely position. Harris often finds himself in one-on-one situations. 
"Every play I'm going against somebody -and usu­ally it's alone," he said. "There's a lot of responsibility resting on my shoulders but that's what I love." 
Offensive linemen don't usu­ally make the stat sheets, but for Harris, winning the game means that they've done well enough. 
"If we win, we did some­thing right," he said. "Then if Brady's been hit, if Darius doesn't get a lot of yards, those are 
just an athlete," he said. "IThere are] so many rival­ries, every week, so much exposure, and you're in the classroom the next day. It's the best of both worlds. I'm just very happy I've been able to take advantage of both opportunities." 
Harris will graduate with a double major in political sci­ence and economics -a sub­ject he says "just makes sense to me." 
Service work and volunteer­ing are an important part of the time he spends in South Bend, and he said he made lifelong friends as a resident of Siegfried Hall. 
But Harris' Muslim faith is also a central part of who he is. Being at a predominantly Catholic school, he said, does­n't make being Muslim harder. 
"It's easi­
definitely things that we look at  "Being in an environment where they practice faith and  er,'' he said. "Because people  
the next day in film and try and cor­rect for the  appreciate faith and there's so many opportunities for people to exercise their faith  understand the religious component of life, peo­ 
next week in practice." As a fresh­ really makes it easy for me to feel welcome."  ple under­stand that faith is an  
m a n , Harris'  Ryan Harris  everyday thing-not  
highlight  Irish left tackle  something  
was  Jones'  .  you do just  

record-breaking game against once a week. Being in an envi­the Panthers. As a sophomore, ronment where they practice he recalls beating Michigan faith and appreciate faith and 28-20, and as a junior, noth­there's so many opportunities ing compared to the USC and for people to exercise their Stanford games. faith really makes it easy for 
"But you think that's it, and me to feel welcome and for me then you come out with a to do the same in my own game like last week against way." Michigan State," he said. "It's From faith to football, just every year, it's something Harris has taken on every phenomenal, and you're like, aspect of his life in his own 'I could not have had that way. experience anywhere else in Harris has many goals for the world."' his life after this season and 
his graduation. But wherever 'My own way' he goes, Notre Dame will go 
Harris is far from finished with him, he said. with his football career. But "The morals and principles he's already making plans to that Notre Dame teaches -to take what he's learned at be a Notre Dame man," he Notre Dame outside the cam­said. "For me it definitely pus. means someone who is a con­
He hopes to go into politics tributing member to the com­or teaching after graduation. munity and who stands for 
"I wanted to prove to myself ethics and good things." that I could handle the aca­demic rigors of Notre Dame Contact Kate Gales at and do both things -I'm not kgales@nd.edu 


NICK 80RSETI 
By KEN FOWLER SportS Editor 
Nick Borseti talks with a thick New England accent and a straightforwardness that fits perfectly with Charlie Weis' style. 
Borseti is a fan of football players who like to keep their focus in two places -between the sidelines and on their class­es. 
"The social atmosphere as 
Blue-collar senior values dedicated teammates 
opposed to other colleges isn't much to tote about," Borseti said. "I just like the fact that people who come here, come here to play football, and that's it. They come here to play foot­ball and get a good education, and they're not concerned with the social atmosphere or any of these outside influences. You've got a really dedicated student athlete when they come here." 
Borseti is a student-athlete whose path has taken him from his first academic love to anoth­er. He began as a mechanical engineering major but switched to industrial design because football interfered with his engi­neering classes. 

"Academics are really impor­tant coming here," he said. ''I'm an industrial design major now, and I'm in love with that major as well. It's definitely important that I'm leaving with a degree, and I'm proud of it." 
With that degree, Borseti said, he hopes to enter the world of product design. He singled out automobiles and consumer elec­tronics as specialties he would like to work on, and he said his classes at Notre Dame have been helpful in that regard. 

"They do a great job each year narrowing you down and down and down, until you're really just tak­
Borseti's favorite moment in his Notre Dame career dates back to his first career appear­ance, on kickoff coverage in the second game of his sophomore season -Notre Dame's 28-20 victory over Michigan. 
"That game I had a good hit 
and a good tack­

ing classes le," Borseti said. focusing on "/just like the fact that "In film session what you want people who come here, the next day, to do with your they rewound it
come here to play

major," Borseti a couple of
football, and that's it.

said. "This isn't times, so that the type of They come here to play felt good." school [where] And the fact
football and get a good

you have to be that the
education, and they're

embarrassed unranked Irish being a football not concerned with the beat the then­player. . . . When No. 7
social atmosphere or 

teachers do rec­Wolverines 
any of these outside 

ognize me as a made it only football player, influences." sweeter. they don't treat "I remember me any differ­when everyone
Nick Borseti 

ent." rushed the field
Irish linebacker 

And that's just after the game, 
Irish linebacker Nick Borseti (56) covers running back Travis Thomas in Notre Dame's annual Blue-Gold game April 22 at Notre Dame Stadium. Borseti is an industrial design major. 
how Borseti would have it. He credits his father, John, with his work ethic. 
"Everything I've done I've worked for," he said. "I never got anything handed to me." 
Borseti said most of his team­mates have the same dedicated mindset as him, and that's why he respects the team so much. 
"It's always great coming to a program and onto a team because you immediately have 100 friends," he said. "We have a lot of good guys on the team and they make lifelong friends." 
and I raised my helmet -it felt a lot better knowing I was part of the victo­ry," he said. 
Because Borseti did not play as a freshman, he can apply for a fifth year of eligibility. But the senior said anything ahead of the upcoming game is past his planning period. 
"We get it drilled into our heads so much that it's game­by-game," Borseti said. ''I'm not really looking ahead." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.ed·u 

CARL GIOIA 
It was al.ways all about the kickoffs for Gioia 
is a little bit different, bounced in and out of the attracted him to the job in the memory."By CHRIS KHOREY because kickoffs, especially at starting lineup, depending on first place. Gioia has passed on that Associate Sports Editor Notre Dame have a lot more the game plan. Once he got on the field, wisdom to freshman kicker 
adrenaline. The whole crowd "Kickoffs take a lot out of however, Gioia realized that Ryan Burkhart. 
When Carl Gioia came to goes wild." your leg, so you kind of have booting a ball in front of "He's good a really good leg Notre Dame games as a little The senior kicker has been to rotate guys," Gioia said of 80,000 people is not as easy and he's got a good head on kid, he didn't focus on the able to kick off more than a the lineup changes. "Plus, dif­as it looks. his shoulders," Gioia said of quarterback or the running "couple times" during his ferent guys have different "[Crowd noise] can actually the newcomer. "He has to fine game. career in South Bend. skills and sometimes the be counter-productive tune things, as every fresh­
He focused on the kickoffs. While backing up Nick Setta game plan is different." because as a kicker you have man does, but he'll have a 
"I remember coming to the and D.J. Fitzpatrick on the Although he didn't trot out to be calm and concentrate," great career." games when I was little and depth chart, he was used by to kick off in every game, he said. Coming out of high school in at kickoffs everyone was coaches Tyrone Willingham Gioia kicked off 44 times his During those two years, Valparaiso, Ind., Gioia was yelling and I thought, 'I'll and Charlie Weis as a kickoff sophomore and junior years, Gioia was able to learn from offered a chance to start right come here if I can do that a specialist. During his sopho­often in the cauldron of noise Setta and Fitzpatrick. away in the Ivy League for couple times,"' Gioia said. "It more and junior years, Gioia in Notre Dame Stadium that "Those were two top-of-the­Harvard, Columbia or Yale, 
line guys," Gioia said. "They but he chose to walk on in were just as good of friends Division I for the Irish. as they were teammates and Gioia said the academic players. Just looking at their drop off was so small and work ethic, they really taught Notre Dame's football advan­a lot to me and [senio1· tage so big that his choice punter] Geoff Price and [sen­was easy. ior kicker1 Bobby Henkes." "The Notre Dame degree is 
Now in his senior year, just as golden as getting to Gioia has become the consis­the NFL and playing football," tent starting placekicker -he said. Notre Dame's main option for Gioia is one of only two field goals and extra points. Irish players in a pre-profes­Gioia is 7-for-11 on field goals sional program, and, and 39-for-43 on extra points although he has another year this season. of football eligibility that he 
The year didn't start well, might use, he has applied to however. In his first start, several dental schools. Sept. 2 against Georgia Tech, "It can get pretty rigorous," Gioia missed two field goals. Gioia said of playing football 
The set back didn't faze and studying one of the him, however. Gioia made two University's toughest majors. field goals the next week "I had two midterms last year against Penn State. the Thursday before USC. I'll 
"It was just another work be better for it in the end. week," Gioia said. "I just The nice thing about Notre went through my routine and Dame is I feel prepared for did fine against Penn State. anything I might end up It's like in other sports, a doing." shooter misses a shot or a

Irish senior kicker Carl Gioia boots an extra point during Notre Dame's 38-31 victory over pitcher gives up a home run, Contact Chris Khorey at Stanford in Palo Alto, Calif., last season. you have to have a short ckhorey@nd.edu 
DWIGHT STEPHENSON, JR. 

Defender just the latest in a line of athletes 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Dwight Stephenson is a fami­ly man, and the Stephensons are a football family. 
The senior defensive tackle grew up in Delray Beach, Fla., with his parents, brother and sister. 
"Everybody looks out for each other. and everything is based on working for the fami­ly," he said. "The best thing I learned from my family is to know how to give to the people that you love." 
While at home, Stephenson attended Pope John Paul II High School where he played three sports -track and field, basketball, and football. He won three varsity letters in football and served as the cap­tain for the Eagles in his sen­ior season. 
Then a linebacker, Dwight had 22 tackles for loss and 27 sacks in his senior campaign -good enough to earn him all-county honors and a spot in the Cali-Florida All-Star game. 
Stephenson, who now wears No. 57 for the Irish, has a strong football pedigree. He was born to a hard-working mother and an NFL Hall of Farner. His father, Dwight Sr., spent four years at Alabama, where he was named an All­American center, before going on to play with the Miami Dolphins for seven years. 
"He's been around great 
football all of his life, but now I think he's just proud to see his son playing football and trying his hardest." Stephenson said. 
The 6-foot-2, 250-pounder has battled a deep defensive line for playing time the past two seasons. Last year Stephenson played in six games for the Irish on defense and made nine appearances on special teams. 
"I think the coaching staff just feels it's 
Stephenson is interested in development companies and investment banking. Football has kept from gaining as much as experience as he would like to, but he has managed to find ways to get a taste of the busi­ness world. 
lie has spent short stints interning with sevmal compa­nies and has done a lot of work with his father who now runs a Florida construction company. Sometime down the 
road, he would­


unfair to "/ think the coaching n't mind getting unleash me on himself into
staJfjust feels it's
regular college sports manage­
unfair to unleash me
football players, ment. but when they on regular college In the mean­do it'll be quite time, he has
football players, but 
an experience." more pressing
when they do it,ll be 
he said. issues on his 
Stephenson quite an experience.,, mind. This had the same Saturday against level of confi­the Black
Dwight Stephenson, Jr.
dence when Knights may be
Irish defensive lineman 
from the last timemoving 
his linebacker 
position to the defensive line after his freshman year. The only change was in the first few steps for him, after that he just needed to get to the ball. 
When Stephenson isn't wait­ing to be unleashed on the gridiron, he spends his time working on a degree in man­agement from the Mendoza College of Business. 
"As long as football is avail­able to me I'll be chasing it," he said. "But my second pas­sion is in business, I love big business." 
that Stephenson has the privilege of running out of the tunnel to the tune of 80,000 screaming Irish fans. He isn't too worried about the end quite yet. 

"It's going to be exciting at that time, but after the game it will be more present [that it's over]. before then we have a game to play ... my mind is going to be focused on [kick­ing] Army's butt." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
JOE BROCKINGTON 

Linebacker steps up when his number is called 
"This year when I started "She worked two jobs pretty second consecutive season. back on [dorm life] and it
By JAY FITZPATRICK 

against Purdue was one of my much since I was born -sup­"It was tough. I was practic­helped build some relation­
Sports Writer 

best moments because I finally ported my sister and I by her­ing so I had that type of aspect ships that I will have for the got on the field," Brockington self," Brockington said of his still there. I was still practic­rest of my life." On Sept. 30, Notre Dame's said. "It's been a journey since mother. "We've had hard times ing, still doing some things," But despite the great memo­
starting defense took the field I've been here." but she definitely got an A-plus he said. "It was definitely ries from Notre Dame, 
against Purdue with one key Brockington's journey to in the whole mothering thing tough, it was hard to deal Brockington's journey is at a 
addition -outside linebacker Notre Dame began in central because her two kids are pret­with, but talking with my fami­crossroads. Because of his red­
Joe Brockington in his first Pennsylvania, where his moth­ty successful." ly they helped me get through shirt freshman year, 
career start for the Irish in er raised him and his sister on While in high school at it. .. Brockington could come back 
four years. her own. Palmyra High School in Brockington continued to for a fifth year under the Dome Palmyra, Penn., Brockington work while at Notre Dame, but or leave school to start life in was already a standout foot­at his academics if not athlet­the real world. ball player, rushing for 1,046 ics. Brockington entered If Brockington does decide to yards and registering 11 0 total school as a business major forego his fifth year, he plans tackles during his junior sea­intent and spent his sopho­to take the LSAT in June, work son. Even though he was side­more year in the Mendoza all of next year and then enter lined by a shoulder injury in College of Business before law school. But, with the his senior year, Brockington switching in his junior year to chance to play in Happy Valley was still recruited by schools become an American Studies next season as the Irish travel in the Big East, ACC, Big Ten major with a minor in comput­to Penn State, Brockington as well as Notre Dame. er applications. says he may return. "[Picking Notre Dame) was a "Then I was looking into dif­But even if Brockington does combination of academics and ferent majors, and I decided return for his fifth year. he the coaching staff that was in on American Studies because knows that law school will be place at the time," Brockington the classes they let you take his next step. said. "It was a more of a deci­were just more interesting Hegardless of when he sion my family and I made than any other major I could leaves, Brockington says the together; my family felt it was find in arts and letters," most important thing he will the best opportunity for me." Brockington said of his deci­take with him is not the games Another major inf'luence in sion. played on the field or the les­Brockington's decision was But despite the hard work sons learned in the classroom, whether he would get to play Brockington exerted on the but the people he met here. Penn State -the favorite team Jield and in the classroom, he "The people that I actually of many of his friends and feels the most important part met here. the friends that l neighbors. of his experiences here at made here just because the "I know a buneh of people Notre Dame were those that people that actually go to that said I should go to Penn happened with his friends out­school here kind or grew up in State or elsn I wasn't good side of football, tho kind of a different situation than I enough to play collngn foot­regular students he might not did," Brockington said of his ball," Brockington said. "It was have met at another university. favorite experience at Notre definitely something I looked "The interaction that you Dame. "It was good because l at when I was looking at have with other students is dif­learned some things from schools so I can show everyone ferent than at other schools," them and they learned some in my area that I can play col­he said. "All through college I things from me." lege football." haven't lroomedl with a foot­Brockington was redshirted ball player. It's helped me meet Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at his freshman year, missing his some new people: Now I look jfitzpaS@nd.edu 


Friday, November 17, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 13 
DAN CHERVANICK 
Positive outlook is a common thread for lineman 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor  help compensate for Notre Dame's thin depth chart. After playing two seasons and  cated and important to the team with the offensive line sit­uation in question. And he had  
recording just two tackles in  some experience on offense.  
The  smile  on  Dan  his first four years at Notre  Along with winning all-league  
Chervanick's face tells his  Dame, the transition lifted his  academic  honors  in  Berks  
story this year.  place on the depth chart, but  County, Pa., Chervanick was an  
The fifth-year senior was a  his work ethic rewarded him  all-league offensive tackle and  
defensive lineman until last  in another way.  defensive interior lineman.  
spring,  when  Irish  coach  The valedictorian of Holy  With Chervanick's mother  
Charlie Weis moved him to the  Name High School in Reading,  ·helping move  in his sister  
offensive side of the ball to  Pa., Chervanick was both dedi- Marie,  a  junior  at  Notre  


Irish senior Dan Chervanick runs with the defense in 2005 before making the switch to offensive line. A fifth-year senior, Chervanick accepted a job with UBS for his first post-graduate job. 
Dame, in late August, Weis awarded Chervanick a schol­arship for his dedication. 
"My mom was crying," Chervanick said. "And I called my dad, and told him, 'You know those loans [for my post-graduate year]? Don't worry abut them."' 
Chervanick said his father had just come home from a long day at work and warned him that the good news better not turn out to be a joke. 
It wasn't. 
Every time Chervanick talks about one part of his five years, his feelings almost invariably boil down to four words. 
"It's just been great," he said time after time. 
Like many of his fellow sen­iors, Chervanick, whose brother Mike walked on to Pittsburgh's football team, said the mid-week work and optional lifting sessions are the toughest part of the sea­son -but also the place where he has forged the strongest bonds with team­mates. 
"The friends I've made ­it's been wonderful," Chervanick said. "I wouldn't give it up for anything." 
The tireless work that led Chervanick to a 3.596 four­year GPA at Notre Dame ­and a 3. 75 average his final undergraduate semester ­impressed his coach, who likes to treat football as a business. But such a relation­
ship should probably be expected, with Chervanick earning a degree in account­ing as well as history. 
And he already knows exactly what he'll be doing with the business degree and the Master of Science in Accounting that he will have earned by May. 
Chevanick interned with Citigroup this summer and, after interviews with New York financial powerhouses Merrill Lynch, Cantor Fitzgerald and others, he accepted a position at UBS next fall as an analyst in the company's fixed-income sales and trading program. 
He said the competitive nature of Wall Street, where he just wants "to get a shot," correlates perfectly with his background in football. 
And Chervanick said he already knows of a few Notre Dame graduates in New York working their way up corpo­rate ladders. Chervanick said the demands for perfection and teamwork at Notre Dame give him a solid foundation for a lower-Manhattan busi­ness mentality. 
But as the Army game approaches, Chervanick has a second chance to soak up the memories from practices and team meetings, until the final lap around Notre Dame Stadium. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

DAN SANTUCCI 
Santucci brings defensive mentality to 0-line 
ting back on pass protection, the entrance of Charlie Weis in 
By KYLE CASSILY when he had been accustomed 2005. 
Sports Writer to playing aggressive with the Weis instituted a four-man 
defensive pass rush. He already rotation between the two guard 
Fifth-year offensive lineman knew, however, how to block for positions and center, rotating Dan Santucci has had to switch the rush after playing tight end Santucci with current seniors to a different side of the ball in high school. John Sullivan and Bob Morton and swap positions mid-game, "It was about after the sixth and current New England but the one thing that has ·Or seventh game, at Navy of my Patriot Dan Stevenson. He remained constant for the start­junior year, I felt like after that accepted the change in stride, ing right guard has been his game -I played almost all and despite his desire to play teammates and his ability to half -and I felt comfortable every down, he looked on the adjust to change. starting," Santucci said of the positive aspects of it -mainly a 
In spring practice before his position change. "I just got chance to take a breather and third year at Notre Dame, more and more comfortable as to gain trust in his fellow line­Santucci was asked by former the year went on, just worked men. Irish coach Tyrone Willingham's hard at it and tried to get bet­"Everyone went with it and staff to switch from the defen­ter." everyone was excited about it," sive line to the inside of the And Santucci, a Chicago Santucci said. "I think it made offensive line. The proposition native, knew a little bit about us closer together knowing that came after he played in all 12 working at things to get better whoever is in there, you could games his sophomore season on before he enrolled at Notre trust them at that position." special teams and made a brief Dame. During his junior year at And that trust carries over appearance against Stanford at St. Patrick High School on the well past the sidelines of defensive tackle, earning his city's north side, his team went Cartier Field and the locker first monogram. 2-7. But the following season, rooms of the Gug for Santucci, 
"At first it was a little bit of he led the Shamrocks to a 7-4 Sullivan, Morton, senior Ryan disappointment, because I'm record and a playoff win -the Harris and the man they are sitting there playing D-line and school's first since 1988. tasked to protect. all of a sudden I get moved," The summer prior to that sea­"We're all tight, we go out to Santucci said. "But when they son in 2001, Santucci turned eat every Thursday night at asked me, and I went home and down scholarship offers from Bruno's Italian," Santucci said. playing with the guys, my last run down the tunnel into thought about it, that night -I Nebraska, Purdue and "We go eat there as a group, friends and stuff like that, that I Notre Dame Stadium. swear to God -I was just real­Northwestern to accept a schol­we sit there and watch the made here," he said. "The tight "I think before the game I'm ly excited." arship from then-Irish defensive Thursday night game, half of it senior class that we had, being going to be focused on winning 
He carried that excitement line coach Greg Mattison -the -Brady [Quinn] goes. We hang a big veteran class, just being the game and at the task at over onto the practice field that weekend after Mattison offered out other times, watching able to go out there everyday hand," Santucci said. "But I spring and made a big enough it. Monday Night Football, things and have fun and play with think after the game, it's going impression to earn a recurring "I got offered a scholarship like that." them, are all memories that I'll to be a little bit of a different spot in the trenches in 2004. He and being from Chicago, going Santucci said his favorite take with me." experience. I really don't know played in 11 games at guard -to a Catholic school and watch­moments in college will always Santucci will put aside the how to say it now before I including 45 special team ing Notre Dame my whole life be the sight of all the offensive marketing degree he already experience it, but it'll definitely appearances -and made his -it was a pretty easy deci­linemen rushing into the end earned from the Mendoza be a special day -something first start, at left guard, against sion," Santucci said. zone every time they score and College of Business and pursue I'll remember the rest of my Oregon State in the Insight Santucci had only a season to mobbing the receiver or run­football into the professional life." Bowl. settle into his new role as an ning back in celebration of a ranks after the season ends. 
The hardest part of the offensive lineman, before his solid drive up field. But for the time being he is Contact Kyle Cassity at change, Santucci said, was sit-role was rattled yet again with "The main thing for me is focused only on Army and his kcassily@nd.edu 



EAD 

BLACK KNIGHTS 
PASSING 
The Irish secondary has ·a· disturbing habit of giving up big plays to mediocre passing attacks. Opponents gain 195.5 yards per game against Notre Dame and have scored 18 touchdowns through the air so far this season. 
The Black Knights pass for an average of 
135.8 yards per game, led by Jeremy Trimble, Walter Hill and Tim Dunn. Trimble and Dunn are tied for the lead in touchdowns with two apiece, but the rest of the team has combined for just four. 
The Irish defense gives up a lot of yards but·· not that nu'tl't~ points. Even .If the • Black Knighfs~·rrave-·iAh ~ above-average 
:d'ay;{ passing, they unlikely to .rack ~~Qvgh IUl!A\§ td·.· 
out ·a. wili'over th 
in SqH;~lt~nd. 

Army Black Knights 
BLACK KNIGHTS 
RUSHING 
Notre Dame matches up closely to the Army rushing attack, giving up 133.7 yards per game on the ground. At this point in the season, they have even more experience defending the option and making adjustments to the rushing defense. 
Army runs the option sometimes, and has a fairly strong rushing attack, coming in at 
137.1 yards per game. Quarterback Wesley McMahand leads all rushers with 643 yards on 133 attempts and Tony Moore has five scores. 
The Irish managed to hold Air Force. and Navy" to a combirr&&S"i points in tw<Jga, this season. Army . more of an air attai: than the Midship~~ but a weaker runnih g~,m~.· Th.~.JtL~h . 
dominate the 
scrimmag~. 


SPECIAL TEAMS 
The Irish average 
21.6 yards per kick return and 8.3 yards per punt return. They give up about 18.9 yards per kick return and 11.1 yards per punt return. They did, 
however,  give  up  a  
kickoff return  for  a  
touchdown to UNC.  

The Black Knights have accumulated 
18.2 yards per kick return and 18.5 per punt return. They've given up just 16.1 yards per kick return and 8.5 yards per punt, which should match up well with the Irish. 
Notre Dame's special teams play has been qp and~down through the season. Army seems to hav~ done a·g&od job keeping returns to a mmimurh, but the will be 'the b 


Notre Dame has lost five games to service academies in the last 50 years. The last time the Irish lost to the Americans? 1996. Notre Dame is due for a patriotic drubbing. And this is the same Army team that hung tough with Texas A&M earlier this year. Wait. I almost forgot how explosive, dangerous, efficient and exciting the Irish offense is. And Army is No. 1 in the nation in charitable giving-a -1.6 turnover ratio. Nice. 
ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 48 Army3 

Army 2006 Schedule  
Sept. 2 atArkansas St-L Sept. 9 KENTSfATE-W Sept. 16 at TexasA&M-L Sept. 23 at Baylor ­W Sept. 30 RICE-L Oct. 7 VMI-W Oct. 14 at Connecticut-L Oct. 21 TCU-L Oct. 28 atThlane-L Nov.3 AIRFORCE-L Nov. 18 at Notre Dame Dec. 2 at Navy  




INTANGIBLES 
Senior Days anm't always happy. This class remembers a loss to Pitt in 2004 that closed out that home season on the wrong side of an upset. With so much at stake, the team can't afford to look past Army to USC on the horizon. 
Army has already said it has nothing to lose. 
Ross is a good coach with a disciplined team and good athletes. Although they've had their share and more of struggles, a win over Notre Dame would make the season. 
Both teams know 
that there's history when they against But it's a college football, Weis and his 
a.re detec'l'-1\\,e ~~.·-"'''·~-~ .. r'!i';"i. this season close 
.<M·.~-...W:'IJ-Y/i•~~'i_! 
Army 
Black Knights Record: 3-7 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
Bobby Ross 3rd season at Army career record: 
103-99-2 
at Army: 
9-23-0 
against Notre Dame: 0-0 
Roster 
z 
0 
-t 
:c 
m 
c 
):. 
3: 
m 





Notre Dame does not hate America. It does, however, like to post one-sided wins over the service academies. This isn't meant as a disrespect to those serving our country. The teams have a long and storied history that has shaped the face and look of American athletics. But it's Quinn & Company's last hurrah in the House that Rock Built. The score won't even be close. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 49 Army 17 
Irish experts 

page 16 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 17, 2006 
CRAIG CARDILLO 

Anchor's aweigh for wide out at season's end 
Cardillo will report to USS Rushmore to begin career in Navy 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
Craig Cardillo's fifth year at Notre Dame has probably been his easiest. 
The kicker-turned-receiver spent four years balancing schoolwork, football and one other major time commitment -Navy ROTC commitments. 
a place-kicker. He didn't see action as a sophomore or jun­ior and then switched to scout team wide receiver. 
There, he made a mark. 
He won the unit's offensive player of the week award three times in 2005 -while preparing the Irish defense for Michigan State, Southern California and BYU. 
Cardillo said he is used to people wondering how he managed all his time commit­ments while still dedicating himself fully to the team. 
"Some of the things for ROTC 
are optional," he 
said. "So it is 
But thanks to a manageable."
"/ didn ,t know I was 
rare Naval Cardillo didn't 
exception, he going to be able to participate in has spent this come back. ,, most voluntary semester with activities, includ­"only" football ing the color
Craig Cardillo 
and graduate guard, which classes on his saved him time.
Irish receiver 
plate. Cardillo's just happy to have that opportunity. 
"I didn't know I was going to be able to come back," Cardillo said. 
But the Navy filled its incom­ing officer need from ROTC graduates across the country and afforded Cardillo a half­year reprieve from starting his four-year active service. He will have another four years of commitment to the military after his active duty ends. 
Cardillo joined the Irish in the spring of his freshman year, walking onto the team as And he said team 
workout sessions sometimes overlapped with ROTC physical training exer­cises, which lessened the load. But other days, he said, he couldn't escape multiple run­ning sessions and weight room work. 
Workouts at Notre Dame were nothing new for him. 
Cardillo attended Hauppauge High School in Suffolk County on Long Island. He played quarterback, receiver and kicker there and was an all­county selection in football as a senior. He also won all-league honors in basketball his junior and senior seasons. 

After considering the naval Academy as a college destina­tion, Cardillo jumped at the chance to go to Notre Dame. He majored in history and earned a 3.276 grade point average as an undergraduate. 
In January, just a few days after the national title game, Cardillo will make his way to San Diego where he will begin his full-time Naval career on the USS Hush more LSD-4 7, nicknamed "America's Gator." 
He's not sure precisely what position he will fill as a com­missioned officer there because, he said, that boils down to one thing -what the ship needs. 
"It's pretty much on-the-job training," Cardillo said. 
And while .official work duties will be substantial, Cardillo may get the chance to jump back over the basketball on the Rushmore. The Gators are 2-1 this season in the San Diego Naval Base basketball league, forfeiting in their only loss due to "an unforesnen incident," according to the ship's official Web site. 
Football won't be out of the picture, either. The ship has its own flag football team in a similar league. 
But right now, Cardillo said, he's worried about his next game. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

CHASE ANASTASIO 

Receiver makes biggest impact on special teams 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Ediror 
Somewhere deep in the Notre Dame archives, the record for most blocked punts sits in bold capital letters. 
Whatever name holds that spot has some competition from a wide out sometimes mistaken for Jeff Samardzija but much more lethal than No. 83 when Notre Dame drops back to field a punt. 
Over the past four years, Irish wide receiver Chase Anastasio has blocked three punts. In fact, all three came last year -one against Washington, and a pair of deflections at Stanford. 
"Someone told me that if I get one or two more, I'll have the school record," Anastasio said. 
But that he would have two blocks by this point of his career is no fluke. Anastasio, usually the man attacking the right side of the offensive line when opponents are punting, always seems to get close. 
"It can get a little frustrat­ing," he said. "But you go out there each time [with the same motivation]. 
And, he said, the record has no place in his mind. 
''I'm just trying to help the team on every single play," he said. 
Anastasio has just three receptions in his career, but that makes him the leading pass-catcher at wide out with another year of eligibility left. After sitting out as a freshman, he saw most of his action on kickoff returns as a sopho­more. Anastasio returned a team-high 19 kicks for an aver­age of 18.6 yards per attempt. He also had one catch for 15 yards. 
As a junior, Anastasio touched the ball only three times -his three big plays on special teams. 
He said he is used to being a role player and works just as hard every day because help­ing himself improve helps the team improve overall. 
Anastasio grew up in Burke, Va., and graduated from Robinson Secondary School in Fairfax, Va. Like many of the role players on the Irish, he was a star before coming to college. Anastasio was a mem­ber of USA Today's top-100 team. As a senior, he rushed for 681 yards and seven touch­downs on 112 carries to go along with his 20 catches for 433 yards and six receiving scores. 
At Notre Dame, the receiver is a sociology and computer applications double major with a 3.17 GPA, ineluding a 3.5 in the spring of 2006. He said he is on track to graduate in May. 
Anastasio said he wasn't sure if he would return for a fifth year yet -he wouldn't dedi­cate time to think about that until December, when Irish coach Charlie Weis said he would meet with aJJ seniors with a fifth year of eligibility remaining. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 


JOHN CARLSON 
A long time coming 
Irish senior tight end John Carlson's first love was basketball, and his early days as afootball player had him anywhere but his current spot 
Editor's note: This story first ran Nov. 3, 2006. 
By KATE GALES 
Associate Sports Editor 
For John Carlson, life is all about balance. 
He balances student life with the pressures on a Notre Dame athlete. 
He balances the dual nature of a tight end -blocking and receiving. 
He balances a love of both basketball and football. 
He's been doing it since high school, and now, it's who he is. 
"Being a student athlete, you don't have as much time or have as many opportuni­ties to participate in dorm events but it's a trade off," he said. "I have an opportunity to do things not many people get to do so I understand that tradeoff is there and I just feel fortunate to be in this place." 
Getting involved with foot­ball 
Carlson still remembers putting on pads 
linebacker as a seventh grad­er, and a little bit of tight end," he said. "Everyone plays running back in middle school I think." 
He settled into the tight end position at Litchfield (Minn.) High School. In four years, he recorded 95 catches for 1,331 yards and 23 touchdowns. 
Carlson also notched 493 rushing yards with seven touchdowns on the ground. 
But in high school, football wasn't Carlson's only priority. He was a standout in basket­ball and tennis and spent most of his time either in practice or doing homework. 
Being busy prepared him for the life of a college stu­dent athlete, though. 
"It's a year round thing where you have both academ­ics and athletics and you have to make a priority to excel in both," he said. "I didn't really do anything else. After school I went to practice then I did homework then I went to bed. It might seem boring but it's what I like to do." 
As a basketball player, he started at center and won the state 2-A title three times, as 
well as being 

for the first conference
"Every play I try to

time. MVP as a jun­
"When I was execute my assignment ior and senior. younger, real to the best ofmy ability. But as he 
young -proba­moved toward 
... When I get beat on a

bly 5 or 6 years college, 
old -my dad blocker or drop a ball I Carlson was 
was an assis­take that pretty faced with a tant coach for a choice.
seriously and try to not

high school 
make the same

football team, "What's not so we had some mistakes over again." to like?" old pads lying Carlson's around the parents and
John Carlson

house," he said. three siblings
Irish tight end 
He and his all attended St. 

older brother tried them on and were hooked. 
"He and I used to play one­on-one tackle football in our backyard," Carlson said. "It seems a little absurd because there's only one guy on each side but we used to do it." 
By seventh grade, Carlson was playing organized foot­ball. But he didn't settle in at the tight end position immedi­ately. 
"I played running back and 
Cloud State University in Minnesota (his youngest sister is still a stu­dent there). But when he vis­ited Notre Dame, his search was over. 
The decision to attend the University wasn't an easy one, though. In addition to leaving his family, he had to face the decision to prioritize football over basketball. 
"Basketball was really my first love," he said. "But I knew I had a greater opportu-


CLEMENT SUHENDRA/The Observer 


KELLY HIGGINS/The Observer Irish tight end John Carlson dashes around Penn State safety Anthony Scirotto in Notre Dame's 41-17 win Sept. 9. Carlson had four touchdowns before being sidelined with an injury. 
nity to play at a higher level in football and I took a visit here and I couldn't pass the place up -what's not to like?" 
He walked onto the basket­ball team as a freshman for a last hurrah with the sport he loved. 
"It was [hard to give up]," he said. "It was a great expe­rience. I met a lot of great people ... it was mostly prac­tice but it was still competing and I really enjoyed it." 
Not that basketball is com­pletely out of his life. Carlson reached the semifinals of last year's Bookstore Basketball tournament, but lost to Irish quarterback Brady Quinn's team. 
In addition to Bookstore Basketball, the former St. Edward's Hall resident loved dorm life. 
"Dorm life is great from an athlete's perspective because you get away from your sport," he said. "We spend so many hours meeting and practicing with the same peo­ple that sometimes it gets monotonous and sometimes you have a bad day -a bad practice or something, just to go and get away from that and kind of have that as a release, I really enjoyed that experience." 
Life on the end 
Carlson has 529 recetvmg yards this season, with two touchdown catches. Irish coach Charlie Weis, a former tight ends coach with the New England Patriots under Bill Parcells in 1993-94, said that Carlson's experience on the hardwood has helped him develop into a major receiv­ing threat for the Irish. 
"I think the basketball back­ground he had [helped]," Weis said. "I think that really helps at the tight end position. We always said in the NFL that a lot of the best tight ends are those power forwards you see playing in the NBA, a lot that have those hands. He already had potential to be a receiv­ing tight end, it's just that he hadn't been put in that posi­tion yet and he's making the 
end position was a natural fit there yet and I feel like I real­for him. ly need to improve my block­"We have a dual role, we're ing especially. But as far as blockers, we're receivers," he receiving goes, there's still a 
s a i d . "Every play I try to exe­cute my assignment to the best of my abili­ty.... When I get beat on a block­er or drop a ball I take that pretty seriously and try to not make the same mistakes 
o v e r again." 
A s defenses often use a 
lot of things  
to  sharpen  
"We spend so many hours meeting and practicing with  up on, routerunning, precision in  
the same people that . ·  route ning  run-is 

sometzmes zt gets monotonous . importa,_nt." 
and sometimes you have a An t h o n y bad day -a bad · Fasano, who practice or something, just graduated
last year
to go and get away from and was that and kind ofhave that taken in the as a release, I really enjoyed ~o~n~ ~f ~h~ that experience." NFL Draft by the 
Dallas
John Carlson 
Cowboys,
Irish tight end 

"cover-2" scheme against the Irish or are forced to cover Jeff Samardzija, Rhema McKnight and David Grimes, Quinn often finds Carlson on seam routes over the middle. 
"I think a big part of [get­ting passes] is the guys we have on the outside," Carlson said. "You have to pay atten­tion to Jeff and Rhema and David Grimes, and the other guys we put in there because they're dynamic athletes. They'll beat you deep if you don't cover them." 
The duality of the tight end position is a constant chal­lenge for Carlson.  'Tm trying to be a complete player. I'm not there yet, and I feel like I really need to improve my blocking  Fasano in the NFL. He's also considering graduate school, law school or  
"It's because  fun it's  especially."  teaching. And at  this  
kind of a  mix  moment? l-Ie's  
between a wide  John Carlson  not  thinking  
receiver and an  Irish tight end  much  past  
offensive line­ Saturday's  
man," he said.  matchup with  

"You take pride in blocking North Carolina. and providing holes for the "Right now I'm just focused running backs but you still on the season and trying to do get to run downfield and try everything I can to help this to make plays." team win," he said. 
Carlson challenges himself That always tips the bal­to be a "complete player," not ance. just a blocking tight end or a receiving tight end. 
was an 
example of a 
complete player to Carlson. 
"I learned a lot from him as a player, not really by what he told me but just what he showed me on the field," Carlson said. "The intensity he played with, his physicality in blocking, the way he ran routes -I learned a lot from him as a player." 
What next? 
A history major, Carlson is on track to graduate in May. He has another year of eligi­bility left, but could JOin 

Irish senior John Carlson splits Penn State defenders Anthony most of this opportunity." ''I'm trying to be a complete Contact Kate Gales at Scirotto, left, and Paul Posluszny in Notre Dame's 41-17 win Sept. 9. Carlson said he felt the tight player," he said. ''I'm not kgales@nd.edu 
TRAVIS LEITKO 

Leitko appreciates ND more during time away 
After taking a year off, defensive lineman returns to the University with renewed vigor for athletics, academics 
both academic and athletic By BRIAN DOXTADER challenges with a newfound Sports Writer energy. Leitko arrived at Notre 
Travis Leitko didn't fully Dame as a defensive end, but understand Notre Dame until has since shifted to defensive he was away from it. tackle. 
The 6-foot-7, 270-pound "It's been challenging, but defensive tackle missed the I've enjoyed it," said Leitko. 2005 season during a year­"I've been able to adjust long hiatus, but found him­pretty well. I'm just trying to self back under the dome in do my best." 2006, looking to complete his As a history major, Leitko degree and finish his college has found plenty of chal­football career. lenges and opportunities off 
"You miss things you don't the field as well. realize," Leitko said. "The ''I've always been interest­time off definitely allowed me ed in history," he said. "I love to sit back, regroup and the motivations behind what rethink about what I want has happened, what moves and where I am." our society and world, and I 
As a dedicated student-ath­think it's a great concentra­lete, Leitko tion for your life explained how because it gives 
difficult it can "'It's been challenging, you a great base 
be to balance in analytical
but I've enjoyed it. 
academics with thinking and 
athletics, espe­I've been able to adjust human behav­
cially at a rig­pretty well. I'm just ior." orous institu­"I've been
trying to do my best."
tion like Notre working hard, Dame. studying a lot, "I was con­Travis Leitko trying to finish stantly in over­Irish defensive lineman my degree." 
drive just try­Yet the year ing to survive," off has clearly Leitko said. "With that year given Leitko better perspec­off, I was able to finally take tive, as he recognizes the a breath and look at where I pressure that many college was at what I was doing and students put on themselves. really ask myself, 'Is this "As a society in general, what I want?"' we're so pushed to go to col­
The answer for Leitko was lege, graduate, get a real job, yes. Upon his return, the work, and I think a lot of Woodlands, Texas native hit people are pushed by that both the field and the books timetable," said Leitko. "I harder than ever, taking on think it narrows your scope 

of how you think, and what you do." 
Leitko has tried not to be limited by such a narrow focus, working for Davidson Instruments as an engineer­ing intern during his time at home. While he spent much of the first semester taking care of his mother and father, who were both ill, he was able to work during the spring when they both took a turn for the better. While at Davidson, he and a team of engineers received a provi­sional patent on a fiber-optic differential sensor, which measures flow in a variety of engineering capacities. 
Leitko is also a familiar presence in Keenan Hall, where he has lived all four years. 
"I didn't plan it that way, but it just worked out," he said. "It's been a positive experience for me." 
Leitko also stressed that he wanted to fully integrate himself into the Notre Dame student body. 
"I always try to be around when I can, be a part of it," he said. "I don't just want to be a guy who sleeps there. I want to be part of the com­munity." 
Most importantly, the time away allowed Leitko to put Notre Dame in perspective and understand what makes it so special. 
"I didn't really come here for the tradition," he said. "I think for me, Notre Dame was the best fit, both aca-demically and athletically. I always challenge myself in the classroom and on the field and of the schools I was looking at, I think it best embodied that." 

Yet upon his return, Leitko found a lot of what he was missing. 
"The people are what make Notre Dame special," he said. ''I'm really glad to be back. I just want to get in there and be the best I can be, both academically and athletical­ly." 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

CASEY CULLEN 

Cullen makes drean1 journey fron1 Interhall to scholarship 
going to offer walk-ons a schol­return, I was going to be the frrst Hard works pays off arship," Cullen said. "I didn't guy on the field, Cullen said. know if it was going to be a sen­"Coming out of that tunnel their for son of '77 grads, ior type of deal, but I told myself, students were right on top of us, 'All right, I'm going to work as and coming out there for that
now off to law school 
hard as I can to just show him I opening kickoff was great." 

can play.' As I did that he gave His performance against By CHRIS HINE more time to play." Pittsburgh earned Cullen the title Sports Writer Cullen comes from a family of speeial teams captain for the with a strong Notre Dame tradi­next game at Michigan. The two It seems too improbable to be tion. Both of his parents are opening games of the 2005 sea­true. 1977 graduates of Notre Dame son were the culmination of 
A young football player comes and his great-grandfather, years of hard work and dedica­to Notre Dame with dreams of Christie Flanagan, was a two­tion that led to the realization of suiting up in blue and gold. He time All-American halfback at Cullen's dream of playing Notre spends his frrst semester playing Notre Dame in the late 1920s. Dame football. 
Interhall football, but unlike lie attended Saint Joseph High "It was intimidating making many others, he does not aban­School in Victoria, Texas where the team at first because these don his dream of making the he was named to the all-state guys didn't know who I was or if varsity squad. He keeps working, team as a linebacker his senior I could play football. It was just and eventually earns a spot as a year. Cullen's primary responsi­you had to prove yourself every­walk-on. bility on the team is on special day, earn a little respect every­
That still does not satisfy him. teams, both as a blocker on kick day. It wasn't until Coach Weis He hustles everyday in practice returns and a taekler on kiekofls. got here that I really got to make to make himself better, earn the "On special teams, there's a a contribution," Cullen said. "My respect of his teammates and definite rush and there's not grandfather, Dick Cullen, and my make the coaches takfl notice of nearly as much responsibility. parents have been a big inspira­him. Eventually, they do spot It's just use your athleticism and tion for me ever since I was little. him, and reward the young man make a play," Cullen said. "It is a They've always been there for with an opportunity to play in lot of fun because you get to hit a me, always there to talk to me every game -and a scholarship lot of' people. It's my way of con­and be real with me." to boot. tributing to the team so I like it." After school, Cullen plans on 
It sounds like something out of I lis first taste of action -and following in his father and a movie, but that is exactly what the highlight of his career -grandfather's footsteps and happened to senior special came against Pittsburgh in the going on to law school. teams player/defensive end opening game of the 2005 sea­"They've led me in the right Casey Cullen. son, when Cullen dressed for the direction so far," he said. "So I 
"I was never really expecting Jirst time, and forced a fumble. look to them and do what they
,

the scholarship. Coaeh Weis told "Coming out of the tunnel and do. the senior walk-ons during the knowing I was going to be on the 
spring when he first got here, field at the very beginning Contact Chris Hine at when I was a junior, that he was whether it was kickoff or kick chine@nd.edu 
DEREK lANDRI 

Making his presence felt 
Editor's note: This story know by watching him on the first ran on Nov. 10,2006. field, or considering the 
coaching changes he's seen 
By BOB GRIFFIN during his time at Notre 
Sports Writer Dame. 
And that's the Derek Landri 
who has weaved his way 
Derek Landri's journey through the University in a through Notre Dame -ath­manner unlike his peers, letically and socially -hasn't classmates and teammates, exactly followed the classic creating for himself a unique pattern for a highly touted college experience that, while recruit out of California high focused on football, extends school powerhouse De La much deeper. Salle. 
On the outside, he's a fierce The doctor and the defensive lineman who landscaper blocked two extra points in Coming east from the West Notre Dame's 45-26 win Coast beaches he used to surf against North Carolina. He is with his father in Huntington, third on the team with 44 Calif., the senior defensive tackles this season (8.5 for a tackle was immediately thrust loss) and second in sacks with into a 10-by-12 foot Dillon four. Hall dorm room. 
He teams with senior defen­While Landri credits the sive tackle Trevor Laws (39 dorm life for allowing him to tackles, 3.5 meet some close sacks) to friends, it was­anchor an inte­"/formed a good n't the type of 
FRANCESCA SETA!The Observer 
rior line that relationship with atmosphere he 

Defensive tackle Derek Landri sacks Michigan State quarterback Drew Stanton in Notre Dame's 
has been a preferred. He

different people -the 40-37 win in East Lansing on Sept. 23. 
leading force on and close friend the Irish Delpilar family, the Anthony ever since. Oliva said he waits "I never really got the West ity and whatever happens, defense all sea­Oliva family -a Salvador, who outside Notre Dame Stadium Coast thing until I came out happens." son. graduated in for Landri after games to here and people started put-And there's nothing more
couple families that are

If one looks 2006, explored offer congratulations. ting me in the category with that Landri would want than
just in the community. ,,

deeper into the relatively "On the out-[Chris] Frome to join his old high school Landri, they secluded cam­side he's a nor-and [Anthony] teammate playing profession­encounter an Derek Landri pus. mal guy, when "Pressure,s what you put Vernaglia, the al football next year. individual who The two he's on the field if. Th surfer type "Hopefully playing for a
Irish defensive tackle

has dealt with played at De La he's an animal," on yourse · e w e a r i n g while, that's a dream, I'm more on the Salle together, Oliva said. "He's majority ofkids that shades," Landri sure it's a dream for a lot of football field and came to an outstanding come in here are real said. "But I people but hopefully I'm play­than most college players. Notre Dame as freshmen -individual." . hyped up All League don't think I fit ing for a while," he said. 
He's seen four coaches in five Landri the big-time recruit So what do h1s , , in the category "Where, it doesn't really mat­years, and while it's a reality and Salvador the little-known t e am mate s All State, All American, with those two." ter -I just enjoy playing that Landri shrugs off -he walk on. think of his that type ofthing. I While Landri football." 
acknowledges the "roller­But once Landri grew tired friends outside think youj'ust come debates his rep-coaster" type atmosphere it of the Notre Dame bubble, he the Notre Dame utation as a Finding his place created. looked elsewhere. And in the c o m m u n it y ? here to play ball the s u r f e r -d u d e Landri has three regular 
Landri was recruited by Bob process, he met two friends. Fellow defen-best ofyour ability and from California, season games left in his Notre Davie before coming in as a South Bend residents sive tackle h t h there's no ques-Dame career, and if the Irish freshman in 2002. While he Arnold Delpilar and Mike Trevor Laws w a ever appens, tion he excelled win all three, they will most was a senior in high school, Oliva are not Notre Dame stu­couldn't help happens.,, on the football likely be headed to the Sugar Davie was fired and George dents. In fact, they aren't stu­but laugh when field at one of Bowl in New Orleans provided 
O'Leary was brought in. dents at all -one's a doctor discussing Derek Landri the top pro-a near-miracle doesn't propel Landri remembers what it and one's a landscaper. Landri's bud-grams in the them into the BCS was like when O'Leary was Landri met Oliva -the dies in the Irish defensive tackle country _ De Championship game. hired to right the ship. landscaper -at Armando's, South Bend La Salle. But Landri isn't the type 
"[There was] a big uncer­an Italian barbershop located area. The high school has pro-who's concerned with where tainty pretty much every year on 1639 Edison Road in South "He definitely has that duced numerous NFL players the team ranks in certain I was here," Landri said. Bend. Italian connection," Laws said including New York Giants polls or how the group is per­"Starting with Davie, you "I formed a good relation­with a smile. "He knows a lot receiver Amani Toomer and, ceived by TV commentators. commit to him and then half ship with different people -of people I don't know. He's more recently, Jacksonville In fact, Landri -a sports fan way through that year he gets the Delpilar family, the Oliva an interesting guy for sure." Jaguars running back growing up -doesn't watch canned. Then O'Leary comes family -a couple families Maurice Jones-Drew -a much ESPN anymore at all. in and everyone hypes him up that are just in the communi­California upbringing good friend of Landri's from "I don't think too fondly of that he's supposed to be the ty that aren't necessarily But while Landri spent time their high school playing days people that comment on that best thing, then he gets affiliated with Notre Dame," during college embracing his (Jones-Drew was a year we're overrated and we don't canned." Landri said. "They kind of Italian roots with doctors, behind Landri). have a defense and that type 
Of course, after O'Leary was made it a home away from landscapers and barbers, he's While at De La Salle, Landri of thing," Landri said. fired, Notre Dame brought in home type of thing." much better known for being established himself as one of "Growing up a sports kid, Tyrone Willingham -who Oliva believes the initial the kid from California who is the top players in the school's ESPN's one of your favorite Landri knew little about other meeting occurred during usually mentioned alongside history. As a senior, he won shows. But you almost grow than that he had a few "up Landri's junior season. He's Laws. California Player of the Year to dislike it. But I think that's and down" seasons at not exactly positive when it Landri isn't sure exactly -joining Toomer and D.J. just the way life is, the way Stanford. happened, but knows it was how he developed that repu­Williams as the only players the world is. 
Willingham's first season -several years ago. The two tation, seeing that he doesn't in school history to receive "I don't watch it nearly as the infamous Return to Glory shared a barber, Dominic, subscribe to the traditional that acknowledgement. much as I used to because I campaign -was Landri's and began talking. laid-back California mentality. He was also a first-team don't want to listen to some­freshman year, even though "When he came into the But he is an avid surfer. USA Today prep All-American one who doesn't know too he didn't see the field. And area he was a little bit lonely "You definitely have to have that year, and the No. 5 over­much about the in and outs." after Willingham went 11-13 ... he came to find the Italians balance [if you're a big guy all high school prospect But Landri doesn't need the in the following two seasons, so he went to the local barber surfing]," Landri said with a according to CNNSI.com. But support of those on television Landri again found himself in shop," Oliva said. "We hit it slight smile. "I mostly did despite his high school's repu­who criticize his team. a familiar position adjusting off pretty good and became long boarding and stuff, but I tation and his personal The lonely kid walking into to a new coach. friends." don't talk like most [of] the accomplishments, Landri felt the barbershop a few short 
But, as Landri would attest, Oliva's sister Mary is mar­people out there with the 'yo little pressure coming into years ago now has his own everything works out for the ried to Delpilar -a local doc­cool dude.' college. company: a few nice local best. tor who has an office on "I don't skateboard, I don't "Pressure's what you put on Italians, those friendly waves 
"''m happy as anything that Ironwood Road and is open­rollerblade -I don't do that yourself," Landri said. "The back home in California and they got coach Weis and he's ing a new center in stuff." majority of kids that come in the overmatched offensive in here now," Landri said. "I Mishawaka. In that sense, he didn't fit here are real hyped up, All linemen he encounters every feel that I'm here at Notre The families welcomed the "surfer boy" image. League, All State, All Saturday. Dame at the perfect time." Landri -they all share an Especially given the company American, that type of thing. I 
But there's a lot about Italian descent -and have he had in his incoming fresh­think you just come here to Contact Bob Griffin at Landri that one wouldn't maintained a relationship man class. play ball the best of your abil-rgriffi3@nd.edu 

AMBROSE WOODEN 

Versatile cornerback sees football as 'ticket' 
Defensive back describes friendships with teammates but remains 'haunted' by big play against USC last season 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
In his career as a football player, Ambrose Wooden has played center, offensive line­man, running back, tight end, receiver, cornerback and safety. 
During his freshman year, he redshirted as a wide receiver. By his junior sea­son, Wooden started at cor­nerback. 
He said it's the hardest position he's every played. 
"It's exciting, you can never take a play off," he said. "You make one play, one wrong step and you can give up a touchdown. It helps you grow as a person because you deal with so much adver­sity, you get beat everyone sees it, where as a lineman, if you get beat no one sees it." 
Wooden came into the 2006 season with 79 career tack­les, after being third on the team in 2005 with 74. He also has had two intercep­tions and one fumble recov­ery. 
But after a knee injury ear­lier this season the former starter has played as a nick­elback and third corner behind Terrail Lambert. 
He's remained positive and plans to come back for a fifth year. Wooden is a self­described "happy guy," but takes what happens on the field seriously. 
"I gave up a big play last year and that still haunts me," he said, referring to a fourth-and-nine play against then-No. 1 USC on Oct. 15, 2005. "You've just got to grow." 
Wooden has played football since he was five, when he joined a Pop Warner team. 
"I just enjoyed watching it, my brother was a football player, and I just started lov­ing it," he said. "It's been my ticket throughout my life to get me here. I've used that to get the best education possi­ble." 
The combination of educa­tion and athletics drew him to Notre Dame. He vividly recalls his visit, with current teammates Victor Abiamiri, Tom Zbikowski and Chinedum Ndukwe. 
"We just had an awesome time," he said. "It was a great experience ... the whole family atmosphere I felt when I came here, my mom loves it. My parents are all about the education and the football and you get them both here." 
Ndukwe and Zbikowski, his companions on the second­ary, would eventually become some of his closest friends. 
"Sometimes I get playful, I like to mess around," he said. "[Ndukwe is] the comic of the group, he can say one thing 

and everyone's laughing. It's funny, but as a whole, we know each other really well, we hang out, no one's really vocal, I look at the other three guys and Terrail and the rest of the guys and you know exactly what they're thinking. You can look in each other's eyes and you spend so much time together. ... You build relationships." 
Wooden, a former resident of Stanford and Dillon Halls, is looking forward to finish­ing the requirements of his finance major, which he said has helped him grow as a person. 
He knows who he is, and the notoriety of the Notre Dame football program has­n't fazed him. 
"It's exciting to be within the whole thing right now, it's always been," he said. "But you've just got to go out and be yourself. Day in and day out, I like to smile a lot, I'm a happy kid. You see me on Saturday, I'm a happy kid." 
Wooden said he will likely return for a fifth year, giving him a shot to earn back a starting position and another season's worth of games at 
Notre Dame Stadium.  
He looks forward  to win­ 
ning  more  games  - his  
favorite part of football.  

"Every game day, win or lose -the wins are definitely the best part," he said. 

"Being in the locker room You can't trade that for any­after and singing the fight thing." song with your teammates, just that atmosphere in the Contact Kate Gales at locker room after a game. kgales@nd.edu 
AsHLEY McCoNNELL 

Fullback's college experience was difficult transition 
loved every minute of it."Small-town native has After former Irish coach Tyrone Willingham called,
learned to balance both 
however, there was little decision to be made.
football and academics 
"Ever since I got that first 
letter, there was only one By MICHAEL BRYAN college for me," McConnell Sports Writer said. "When I got my offer 
[from Notre Dame] it was a 
It's been quite a journey for dream come true, I was smil­Ashley McConnell, from a ing from ear to ear." high school athletic star in One of McConnell's biggest tiny Adairsville, Ga. -with a challenges of his Notre Dame favorite sport of basketball career wasn't blocking tow­-to starting in the national ering linebackers, but spotlight as a fullback at adjusting to college life. Notre Dame. "I came from a one-stop­

At Adairsville High, light town where you knew McConnell was a three-sport everyone to a pretty big col­letterman in football, basket­lege, and it was a big ball, and track and field. change," McConnell said. "I Team captain of the football had to learn how to juggle squad as a junior and senior, school and football and take he rushed for 485 yards and advantage of my free time, seven touchdowns his senior and it was definitely a chal­season, helping his team to lenge." an 8-2-1 record. He earned His freshman year, all-area and all-league hon­McConnell did not see any ors at fullback, and also action at fullback. He worked recorded 65 tackles and two mostly on the practice squad had it here," McConnell said. to get in the first game blessing and a special interceptions playing inside at fullback and with special "I felt blessed to be back­against Purdue, that was a moment for my family and linebacker. teams. His sophomore season you're not guaranteed a sec­special moment." hometown," McConnell said. 
Despite his success on the was lost to suspension for an ond chance. I felt privileged McConnell has emerged as A graphic design and com­football field, McConnell's undisclosed violation. to get to play again, and a solid starter this season puter applications major, first love was basketball, and McConnell received a sec­privileged just to be able to after starter had knee sur­McConnell looks forward to when the recruiting letters ond chance, and rejoined the go to class." gery earlier this season. graduation and finding a started flooding in for foot­team after the suspension for He saw his first offensive One of the most rewarding steady job. ball, he was shocked. his junior year. The player action on the field his junior moments of McConnell's He is also looking into 
"Some guys, I guess, com­who returned, however, was year, entering three games at career, he said, was the 8-internship opportunities in plain about the hassle of get­different that the one who fullback. yard touchdown catch he the graphic design field. ting recruited, and people left. "Everyone just wants to do caught in Notre Dame's 47­always calling you," "While I was gone I real­their part, and I'd be happy 21 loss. McConnell said. "I guess it ized everything I had taken just to play on special "It was unfortunate that it Contact Michael Bryan at was never that way for me. I for granted, and how good I teams," McConnell said. "But came in a loss, but it was a mbryan@nd.edu 


JEFF SAMARDZIJA 
T-wo-sport star 
JeffSamardzija excels in the end zone and on the pitcher's moundfor Notre Dame 
Editor's note: This story first Rhema McKnight and Maurice the right time." ran on Sept. 23, 2005. Stovall as well as then-senior Stovall wasn't surprised to 
Omar Jenkins. Samardzija see his counterpart put up big By HEATHER played in all 12 games but numbers thus far this SE)ason. VAN HOEGARDEN caught just seven passes for "It doesn't surprise me at Spons Writer 53 yards. all," Stovall said. "I know the 
Last year, although he ability that Jeff has. The emerged as quarterback things that you see in the Jeff Samardzija was just Brady Quinn's go-to receiver game are the things he does waiting for an opportunity. on many third down conver­in practice, so it wasn't a sur­
The opportunity to catch a sions, he was still a quiet prise to us at all." 
pass in the end zone. player for the Irish, catching Samardzija says he's just . The opportunity to play two 17 passes for 274 yards on getting more opportunities to sports in college. the season, but still no touch­have the ball than he was in 
And now that he's finally downs. the past -there's nothing caught not just one, but five "If you're a receiver, just more to it. touchdown passes, after not throwing the ball your way [is "I don't think there's too finding the end zone for two what helps you succeed]," the much of a difference," years, and now that he is a 6-foot-5, 216-pounder said. "I Samardzija said of this year key member of the Notre guess that's all it comes down and previous years. "It's just Dame baseball team as well, to is getting the opportunity to getting the opportunity to he's just looking for more make plays, and when you do [make a play]. If you're in the opportunities. get those opportunities, just to right area and the ball's com­
. "If they were going to throw come through and make the ing your way -I think last the ball my way five times in plays to keep that confidence year there were a couple the end zone [I would have going within the team." chances I may have let slip expected to have five touch­But he didn't have that away and I didn't make the down receptions]," the junior opportunity -that is, until plays, and I think this year wide receiver said. "You've this season. maybe I made a play or two got to think you're going to This year Samardzija has early that gave the coaches make those five catches. It's caught 13 passes in just three confidence to put me out just a matter of personnel and games, including five touch­there in different situations." being in the right place at the downs, three against right time, and then just tak­Michigan State, and at least The 'other' sport ing advantage of the opportu­one in every game, tying a When Irish baseball coach nity." school record. Paul Mainieri read an article 
Irish coach Charlie Weis that said new Notre Dame out." baseball at the next level. A slow start in the fall attributes these numbers to football recruit Jeff And so Samardzija has "I think he's got potential," 
Samardzija came into Notre not only throwing the ball Samardzija wanted to play become a force on the dia­Mainieri said. "There's no Dame as a highly touted more, but Samardzija's skills college baseball if he could, mond as well. As a freshman, question in my mind when recruit from nearby as well. he immediately talked to he earned freshman A1l­he's out on the mound that he Valparaiso High School after "You would expect receivers then-coach Tyrone American honors after posting looks like a Major League excelling in football, basket­to have big numbers when Willingham, and he said it a 2.95 ERA, the second-best pitcher." ball and baseball. Samardzija you throw it 60 times," Weis was alright to look into the among Big East pitchers. Last never missed a start in his said. "I think that Jeff's a very possibility of him playing spring, Samardzija posted a Balancing act four years. dependable, reliable receiver baseball as ·3.89 ERA with a Although these two sports 
He was an all-state center­with great hands and good well. record of 8-1 in keep Samardzija plenty busy, fielder in baseball, he finished ball skills. He's been the "So I started "I think last year there 15 appearances he has not had to miss a second in the voting for Mr. recipient of being open. We asking _some were a couple chances and ten starts. spring football practice due to Football in Indiana and he don't ever design plays just to professiOnal I may have let slip away "One of Jeff's his baseball commitment. His was named the top receiver in go to a guy. We try to throw it scouts about . , most successful days, however, are scheduled the state of Indiana. to the guy that's open based him, and they and I dzdn t make the traits is that he's to the fullest, balancing sports 
However, his freshman year off of coverage and progres­said they'd seen plays, and I think this a competitor," as well as a marketing major. at Notre Dame, he was hidden sion. He's been the recipient him play, an~ year maybe I made a said Irish assis-"I think balancing, it just 
behind then-sophomores of being in the right place at he's not bad,' tant Terry comes down to time manage­Mainieri said. play or two early that Rooney, who ment," he said. "I think my 
So Mainieri gave the coaches works with schedule's pretty much down ~ent his pitch-confidence to put me pitchers. "He's a to the half hour. A lot of it mg coach at the . . competitor both comes down to just before it time to watch out there zn dijferent on and off the happens, .be ready to go to 
Sam a r·d z ij a. situations." field. I think whatever that day's calling And after that's what for." scouting him, makes him so Rooney said he is impressed Mainieri called Jeff Samardzija successful in with the way Samardzija is 
him to ask him Irish wide receiver both baseball able to balance all of his com­if he wanted to and football. He mitments. play baseball knows how to "It's a real credit to Jeff for for the Irish. · compete, he loves to compete, the self discipline and the 
And with Willingham's and he plays both sports with tiine management skills that blessing, Samardzija became a tremendous amount of con­he has," Rooney said. a two-sp'ort athlete. Mainieri fidence." "Obviously he has a challeng­said now he and Weis have But it goes beyond just ing schedule for both sports, also come to an agreement to baseball and football. Both but it's a credit to Jeff and the let the pitcher/wide receiver Maineiri and Rooney empha­way he goes about his busi­play both sports. sized Samardzija's importance ness. He's a very determined 
"Charlie's been great as far as a person to Notre Dame. guy. He has a very structured as supporting Jeff," Mainieri "Jeff Samardzija is one of routine that he does every­said of Weis, who he said those guY.S you don't see very day." attended one or two of the often," Maineiri said. "He has But even with all the sched­games in which Samardzija such a competitive side to uling, Samardzija sometimes pitched. him, I don't care what sport finds that 24 hours is not 
As far as Samardzija, he is he's playing or what he's enough to fit everything in a just glad he got the opportuni-involved in, he wants to win day. ty to play both college base-so badly." "Sometimes there's not ball and football. Hooney echoed Maineiri's enough time in the day to do 
"It kind of just worked out comments. everything you want," he said. for me," Samardzija said.. 'Tie's an extremely likable, "Just getting it all in is pretty "There were some places who coachable young man," tough sometimes." said I could do both, and Rooney said. "He's someone And what's his best sport? there were other places that that all of us here in the base~ "Whatever he's playing," said I couldn't, so that had a ball program have grown Mainieri said. 


Notre Dame receiver Jeff Samardzija, center, is grabbed by Michigan little bit to do with [what extremely fond of." State safety Eric Smith, left, and linebacker David Herron Jr. in the school I went to], but it's kind And both coaches said they Contact Heather Van Hoegarden Spartans' upset victory in 2005. of nice that it just worked think Samardzija could play athvanho~n~edu 
TRAVIS THOMAS 

A tale of two talents 
Special teams captain adjusts to position change in his senior year and becomes a vocal leader in the process 
coach Charlie Weis felt 63 
By KEN FOWLER 
rushes was not good enough Sports Editor 
for "one of the 22 best play­
ers on the team." 
For three years, Travis So the 6-foot, 215-pound Thomas usually was on the product of Washington, Pa., bench when the Irish offense about 20 miles southwest of had the ball. As a senior, Pittsburgh, went from a spot­that's still the case. But carry, change-of-pace run­almost everything else is dif­ning back to a s pet~dy line­ferent. backer in one off-season. 
As special teams captain in "Whenever I got my oppor­2006, Thomas is the least tunity I tried to shine," glorified and least scrutinized Thomas said. "I think it was of Notre Dame's three official noticed, and I think it was a leaders -Brady Quinn rep­good d1~cision for everyonn to resents the offense and Tom eome together and make tlw Zbikowski heads the defense. choice and move me to the But even though he's not the other side. I think it was a one usually projected onto good thought on Coach Weis' television sets, part. I just think it Thomas is the was a good deei­most vocal of the sion overall." tliree, a role he "Whenever I got As a senior. had to get used to. my opportunity I Thomas has start­
"I find myself ed eight of Notre
tried to shine."
being more vocal, Dame's 10 games, especially being sitting two out on the defensive Travis Thomas after injuring his side," Thomas ribs on the final
Irish linebacker 
said. "There's a play of the 40-37 lot of help from Irish win over Zibby obviously, Michigan State but I just feel real comfort­Sept. 23. 
able with that." When Notre Dame recruits 
Thomas has had to work ask Thomas about his emer­hard to become a good line­gence, he has a simple mes­backer and a vocal leader, sage for them. but he said that's something "I just try to let them know with which he's accustomed. that you're going to have to 
After earning two-time con­work for everything you earn ference MVP honors in high here," he said. "You're going school and totaling 18 rush­to have to earn everything. ing touchdowns as a senior, Nothing is going to be given Thomas didn't see the field to you. Every game is a as a freshman. He finally championship game for the played -and started -in people you play against, and the first game of his sopho­academics are tough, so if more season, but it was a this is what you're really tough one. He had six carries looking for, then you're going and as many fumbles -two to get it." -as yards. He carried only One of the things Thomas 19 more times that season as has gotten out of his time at Darius Walker and Ryan Notre Dame has been his Grant picked up the bulk of relationship with his new­the attempts. found mates in the linebacker 
A gifted athlete with good corps. Thomas said he and size, he more than doubled fellow senior Joe his carries in 2005, but Irish Brockington, an outside line-backer from Palmyra, Pa., developed a good relationship when they first arrived at Notre Dame "just because we're from Pennsylvania." 


Off the field, Thomas is a consulting major in the Mendoza College of Business. He said most of his work deals with problem-solving in discussion groups. 
"Things are going real well in the classroom," he said. 
"Senior year is probably the easiest semester I've had so far." 
But Thomas has dreams of playing on Sundays before he goes pro in something other than sports. Having played offense, defense and special teams, Thomas just wants to get to the NFL, no matter the role. 
"Special teams has been a niche of mine, so maybe at 
the next level I'm obviously going to have a role there," Thomas said. "You know, the object is just to get there. So the fifth year, like I said, that's going to take care of itself once the season ends. Coach [Weis] and I will meet, but it's not a concern of mine right now." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 



-
Left, senior linebacker and running back Travis Thomas waits on the sideline with his helmet on to get in the game. Right, Thomas breaks open a 43-yard run Sept. 9 against Penn State at Notre Dame Stadium. Thomas had 44 yards on three rushes with a one-yard touchdown run against the Nittany Lions. 
Friday, November 17, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 23 
MIKE RICHARDSON 
Cornerback has two different personalities 
five games. That season, he had has been credited with five pass
Richardson says his 
33 tackles, one interception, break ups and one quarterback forced three fumbles and was hurry. He said he's developed by 
favorite moment was 
credited with three broken pass­becoming more vocal. 
crowd noise vs. USC es. "It helps with communication Then there was a coaching in the defensive backfield," he change, as current Irish coach said. "Being a more confident 
By KATE GALES 
Charlie Weis replaced person when I'm playing and not 
Associate Sports Editor 
Willingham. being afraid to "It was tough make mistakes
''The USC game last 
On the field, he's a hard-hitting losing some of -that was a big cornerback. the people that year was crazy. Just thing that limited Off the field, he's a self­brought me in," me when I was
being on the field it 
described "nice guy" with an Richardson said. younger. I was
seemed like it was the
inexplicable fear of large spiders. "But I knew of scared to make Cornerback Mike Richardson Coach Weis, I loudest the stadium's mistakes and I has seen a lot in his five years at knew of his rep­was playing ten­
ever been. Towards 
Notre Dame, and he's wiser for utation, and he tative. That's
the end, my heart
it. came with a when you do Hichardson was recruited at great staff. He was beating out of make mistakes." Stanford by former coach Tyrone was very posi­my chest., Aside from Willingham. When Willingham tive about it." football, accepted the coaching job at Last season, Richardson 
Mike Richardson 
Notre Dame, Richardson took a as a senior, enjoyed the visit to Notre Dame. Richardson was Irish cornerback dorm life of 
"I ended up liking it, deciding sixth on the Notre Dame. that that's where I needed to be," team with 55 "It was always Richardson said. tackles and started all 12 games. fun living in the dorms, I had the 
He had been playing organized He also had a crucial intercep­regular roommates and every­football since he was nine. tion in Notre Dame's loss to USC thing," he said. "[But] I didn't 
"I used to play backyard foot­on Oct. 15, 2005, ending a poten­really get to see my roommates ball with my friends from tial Trojans scoring drive in the that much because of football." off-campus house. NFL. Weis likes his chances school," he said. "They were all third quarter. That game He also enjoyed the campus Although Richardson didn't there. playing organized football and remains one of Richardson's dining halls. really like the joke, he describes "When I got here, everyone they were like, 'You should come most vivid memories. "It was cool being on campus, I himself as a friendly guy. told me how crummy out and play.' So I went out and 'The USC game last year was kind of miss the dining halls now "''m a real friendly guy," he [Richardson] was," Weis said. joined the team and I actually crazy," he said. "Just being on living off campus, he said. "I hate said. "A lot of people see me, like, "Since I've been here, he's gotten turned out to be pretty good." the field it seemed like it was the cooking." oh yeah, Mike Richardson, he solid, he's gotten better, and bet­
He started playing at running loudest the stadium's ever been. He also doesn't like water, hits people; he tries to take peo­ter, and better. And I'm the only back and safety. With the Irish, Towards the end, my heart was claiming he needs floaties or a ple's heads off all the time. He's one noticing. He's going to be he sat out his freshman year as a beating out of my chest, it was life jacket to go swimming. probably pretty mean. But I'm playing for somebody else next rookie cornerback, and played crazy. That was the best feeling I Fellow cornerback Ambrose really easy to talk to, I'm easy to year. He's not done playing." primarily on special teams as a ever had, even though we lost." Wooden also teases him about initiate conversations with." sophomore. So far in 2006, Richardson has his fear of spiders, once putting After this season concludes, Contact Kate Gales at 
As a junior, Richardson started 40 tackles, five for a loss, and fake ones all over Richardson's Richardson hopes to play in the kgales@nd.edu 
MITCHELL THOMAS 
Linebacker came to Irish as coveted prospect 
with an injury. Despite not play­By JAY FITZPATRICK ing most of his senior year, Sports Writer Thomas was still named to the 
all-state team and was a sought­For Mitchell Thomas, sports are after recruit coming out of life. Smiths Station. 
Thomas excelled in every sport During his senior season, he tried in high school. He was a Thomas' top three schools were two-time letter winner in basket­Alabama, Florida and Notre ball and track to go with football, Dame. as well as being named captain "After the coaches left to all three of those teams in Alabama, [Notre Dame] was my Smiths Station High School in best choice," he said of his deci­Smiths, Ala. sion in choosing Notre Dame. "I 
"I grew up in the country, went think it was just a good balance to a city school," Thomas said. of academics and athletics." "That was my life -sports. I did After joining the Irish, Thomas that year round." began to expand his interests 
In order to do be that involved, beyond sports into the classroom, Thomas relied heavily on his par­where he began pursuing a man­ents for support. He credits them agement consulting degree. for developing Thomas as an ath­"[After football] I plan to try lete if for no other reason than going to [into the] consulting they helped him make the games. field, see how that turns out, see 
"[My parents] had to drop me if I like it. If not, I'll try [to] find off, pick me up," he said. "My sis­something I like," he said. ter was in the band -she's a Even with the classroom load, year younger than me -so Thomas still had a passion for they'd have to drop her off, come football. He had to wait to play, back and get me, back and however, and got the chance to forth." start at the beginning of this sea­
One of the most important son against Georgia Tech. games Thomas played in was not Because he redshirted his even on the football field, but on freshman year at Notre Dame, the track. Thomas still has the option to 
"My junior year we had a return for a fifth year, although [4X400J team that was fourth in he does not yet know whether or the state that was going against not he will. Even if Thomas does supposedly the number one come back, he is unsure of his [4X400J team in our state. And future -and whether it will we went against them and beat include football them," Thomas said. "That was "If I do come back, it'll depend the best sports moment I had." on what kind of year I have. I 
But the sport Thomas truly might try the NFL, but I might just excelled in was football, where get a job and get on with my life." he made 70 tackles and rushed for over 500 yards in five game Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at his senior year before sidelined jfitzpa5@nd.edu 


..::: 
BRIAN MATTES 

Finance, fraternal spirit draw Mattes to ND 
page 24 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 17, 2006 

By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer  that transition period as one of his greatest challenges since arriving at Notre  as a junior at Wyoming Valley West High School in Plymouth, Penn., quickly  me to play again, I saw it as an opportunity to just be a college student for another  "At least one, if not both )parents], make it to every game," said Mattes, whose  
Dame.  learned the ins and  outs of  year,"  Mattes  said.  "So  I  brother Kurt is  a  redshirt  
"Just changing my  body  playing on the opposite line.  thought about it a  little then  freshman offensive lineman  
Brian Mattes came to Notre  make-up  was  kind of diffi­ And. consequently, he has  decided to [come back)."  at Northwestern. "They try to  
Dame as an Associated Press Pennsylvania Big School all­state selec­tion at defensive  cult," said the 6-foot-6, 287­pound Mattes. "I had some trouble putting on the weight [necessary to become an offensive lineman)."  become very elose with the other Irish linemen. Mattes has lived with f'ifth­year senior offensivn guard Dan Santucci for almost four  This season, Mattes saw signifieant playing time in Notre Dame's 14-10 win over Georgia Tech  make it to my brother's games too. They do their very best and I'm very grateful to them for it."  
end as a junior and  Another change for Mattes, who hails from Larksville,  years. Mattes, who livnd in Fisher Hall his freshman  Sept. 2, an expe­rience he said  "The atmosphere  After the sea­son ends, Mattes  
at tight end as a senior. Little did he know, offen­sive line­men would Mattes s o o n become his closest friends on the Irish team. Now a fifth-year senior who graduated last May with a degree in finance, Mattes says he will always remem­ber the fraternal nature of the Irish linemen. "Every day, the 0-Line sec­tion of the locker room is a lot of fun," Mattes said. "Someone's always ragging on someone else. It's just very entertaining." After not seeing any action as a freshman defensive end in 2002, Mattes was moved to the offensive line before  Pennsylvania, was the ynar, was "pulled into" Knott process of eva] u­llall by Santucei ating his own before their play. As a defen­sophomore year."''ve learned thatsive end, his The two werethe best way tosuccess could be roommates in measured in evaluate my per­Knott for their numbers like sophomore andformance as a line­sacks and tack­junior years,man is to go backles. But he said then moved off­it is impossible to the [game] film. " campus as sen­for an offensive iors. lineman to ana­Mattes said heBrian Matteslyze his produc­has never doubt­tion statistically. Irish offensive lineman ed his decision "I've learned to come to Notre that the best Dame, citing way to evaluate my perform­"great people, a great educa­ance as a lineman is to go tion and a great degree" as back to the [game] film," the most important aspects Mattes said. "You have to of his experience here. The check your fundamentals. decision to return this season With good fundamentals, was, therefore, not very diffi­you'll be successful nine cult for him. times out often." "When Coach Weis  he will always [at Georgia Tech] hopes to move to remember. Chicago and findwas great, even"It was one of employment inbeing a member ofmy first games the finance really being in the visiting team. " industry. The there," said finance major Mattes, who finished hisBrian Mattesappeared in 28 undergraduate games for the Irish offensive lineman career with a Irish before this 3.486 GPA as a season, most of Dean's List hon­them as a spe­oree and knows cial teams player. "The that his Notre Dame degree atmosphere [at Georgia Tech] will be very valuable to him was great, even being a in his search for a desirable member of the visiting job. team." "Graduating from here is As the Irish prepare for obviously a huge advantage," their final home game Mattes said. "The outstand­against Army this Saturday, ing alumni base can really Mattes said that he hopes "to help you get your foot in the walk off the field happy and door with some big compa­with a feeling of fulfillment." nies." Mattes said many of his rel­atives -including his par­Contact Fran Tolan at  
the 2003  season.  He cited  Mattes, who had 10 sacks  approached  me  and asked  ents-will attend the game.  ftolan@nd.edu  


CHRIS FROME 

Froin USC injury to senior season, Froine thrives on D-line 
line coach Jappy Oliver had noth­back. As you can see, Vick ing but positive things to say (Abiamiri) is beating me there a regarding the rehab process of bunch of times." his senior defensive end. If Frome's football career had 
"I think he's quicker and moves gone according to his plan from a better," Oliver said. "Before the young age, he never would have injury, I thought he played strong, lined up in an Irish uniform, but he seems like he's playing much less alongside Abiamiri, stronger. He's a more confident Laws, and Landri. Growing up individual." with two parents from the 
Judging by his performance so Midwest, Frome pictured himself far this season, Frome isn't feel­playing at a different school from ing any lingering effects of his America's heartland. knee injury. Through nine games "Honestly, I grew up a Michigan this season, Frome has seventeen fan, and I always kind of envi­tackles (seven solo), .5 tackles for sioned myself playing for a loss, .5 sacks, and three quar­Michigan," Frome said. "I didn't terback hurries. Compare those like Notre Dame too much. It numbers with Frome's career wasn't until I got here that I real­numbers entering the 2006 sea­ized it's such an amazing place." son of fourteen tackles (seven After arriving in South Bend solo) and one quarterback sack. during the fall of 2002, Frome 
While Frome's numbers may has spent his time both rushing not match those of fellow defen­the quarterback and tackling his sive linemen Abiamiri or Trevor coursework. A business major Laws, Oliver knows the diflerence who graduated with a degree in Frome makes on the defensive finance from the Mendoza 
back on." diately following Frome's injury, line. College of Business last spring,By GREG ARBOGAST With Notre Dame up 21-14 late few know what Frome endured "He might not have the luxury Frome finished his undergradu­
Sports Writer 

in the second quarter and the over the following months. to get a lot of stats, but he does ate career with a GPA of 3.30. As Irish crowd still reveling in Tom Rehab. Lots and Jots of rehab. his job well enough to let others for deciding between a football 
It's one of the enduring images Zbikowski's 60 yard punt return After having surgery only three be the recipients of plays," Oliver career and following his degree, from last year's game versus for a touchdown, USC quarter­days after the USC game, Frome said. Frome is leaving his options usc. back Matt Leinart rolled out immediately started strengthen­The others referred to by Oliver open. 
Notre Dame defensive end towards Notre Dame defensive ing his knee through activities usually take the form of senior "I see myself working out, try­Chris Frome, only minutes end Victor Abiamiri. Abiamiri like weightlifting and underwater defensive linemen Abiamiri, ing to make it (in the NFL), and removed from an injury that would tally his only sack of the jogging. Six months later, Frome Laws, and Derek Landri who talking to the coaches to see would end his season, passion­day on that play, but Frome, in an started running again, but he was have formed a formidable defen­where I fit," Frome said. "I could ately waved his arms while being effort to avoid an unnecessary held out of spring practice due to sive front along with Frome over definitely see myself going to carted off the field in an effort to roughness penalty, jumped over his inability to cut. their four years together at Notre graduate school or law school. I reenergize the suddenly silent Leinart proceeding to come down "You don't realize how much Dame. Combined, the four have have a lot of options." Irish faithful. awkwardly on his knee tearing you miss football until you see totaled 140 tackles, eighteen With two regular season games 
"There was so much energy in his ACL. someone else playing it, or you sacks, twenty-one quarterback and a bowl game left on the the stadium, and everybody was "Right after it happened, I see that you can't be a part of it hurries, and two forced fumbles schedule, the future will have to so quiet when I was down that knew," Frome said. "My knee just with your teammates," Frome this season. wait for Frome, who's all busi­when I did pop back up, I wanted didn't feel right. I couldn't bear said. "I missed it a lot. I'm really "We feed ofl' each other as far ness on the field for the Irish to get everybody fired back up any weight on it at all, and I lucky to have this last season." as energy," Frome said. "We right now. again," Frome said. "Some of the knew my season was over." While ACL injuries are often know where we're going to be guys still give me a hard time While many know the events synonymous with ruined careers during a play, and it's kind of like Contact Greg Arbogast at about it, but it's something to look that unfolded in the hours imme-and losing a step, Irish defensive a race to the ball or the quarter-garbogas@nd.edu 

BOB MORTON 
Irish pull together for guard after father's death 
for my pops, I never felt like I graduating from the MendozaBy DEIRDRE KRASULA 
was alone. I didn't need to College of Business with a 
SportS Writer 
lean on anybody, they were degree in accounting, the fifth 
all holding me up together." year veteran has been taking 
For offensive lineman Bob The squad is more than just graduate courses and volun­Morton, the 2006 football a team to Morton -it is a teering his free time with season was not just a chance family, a contingency of teenagers at Grace Baptist to play one final season with brothers. Morton feels these Church. his "brothers," but also an brothers will be there for one After winter break, Morton opportunity to honor the another no matter what the plans to return to Grace memory of his father. circumstances. Baptist Church and take on a 
Robert Morton, who played "When key points in a per­larger role as a youth-intern football for Rutgers, died son's life come up, whether for the spring semester. Aug. 22 from good or bad, the Despite being a Baptist at stomach cancer at team can come one of the nation's top Roman
"When those guys 

the age of 54. Bob together, and it Catholic institutions, Morton Morton returned came to me before feels like the most has never felt out of place. home to the game and let close knit family The opportunity to take theol­McKinney, Texas you'll ever see," ogy classes alongside not only
me know they were 

to be with his the veteran said. students of different faiths, family in their playing for my But for Morton, but professors of different time of need, but pops, I never felt his Notre Dame faiths has allowed Morton to he quickly family does not deepen his faith. 
like I was alone. ,,

returned to his just exist on the "It is such a spiritually teammates. field, it is every­focused school that I have not Within days, the Bob Morton where on his been put out because of my son was back at Irish guard sacred campus. He faith," Morton said. practice and said some of his Morton said he never felt a preparing for the most memorable duty to serve his faith early season opener against moments are not the games on in life like most people; Georgia Tech which was less when the offensive line does apparently he missed that than two weeks away. not allow a sack, but the call. 
When the team traveled to times after the game when he Discovering his calling later Atlanta to take on the Yellow celebrates with the entire on in life has not slowed him either way, his future does his father. Maybe not the role Jackets, Morton said that he Notre Dame student body -down; rather it has increased not hold a place for account­Morton thought he would lead had never felt such love and and not just his teammates. his speed of life. After finish­ing. when he first stepped on support from his teammates. ''I'm going to miss the fami­ing his internship with Grace "We've got one life to live campus in 2002, but still one 
"I don't think I've ever felt ly that is the Notre Dame stu­Baptist Church, Morton is not and I feel we are suppose to spent in the Notre Dame spir­that camaraderie," Morton dent body," Morton said. sure where his life will take glorify the one who made us," it nonetheless. said. "When those guys came Morton does not plan to him, maybe back to Texas to Morton said. to me before the game and let leave the South Bend area attend Seminarian school, or A life lived based on faith Contact Deirdre Krasula at me know they were playing it anytime soon, though. After perhaps more service work, and honoring the memory of dkrasula@nd.edu 

MARCUS fREEMAN 
Backup tight end steps into starting role with success 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor  down, a lot of times, it's a little disheartening and sometimes a team gets rattled a little bit."  tight end. "I really like [both aspects of being a tight end]," he said.  like to joke around, but people that don't know me or meet me for the first time or just cross  "If you have a senior who has been playing a whole bunch the last couple of years,  
In the previous three years,  "My career, I've been pretty  paths ... maybe see me as a  even though he's been anony­ 
The outcome of the game  Freeman had five catches for  much just blocking, I've grown  shy guy or a quiet guy, but I  mous because the front line  
wasn't really in doubt, but that  50 yards. He redshirted in  to like and love blocking, but I  like to have fun, I like to joke  guy has been getting the noto­ 
didn't make Marcus Freeman's  2002, his freshman year. His  also love receiving the ball and  around with Rhema  riety, a guy like Marcus step­ 
touchdown catch last Saturday  career high in receptions came  getting downfield and making  [McKnight], Ryan Harris."  ping in, I think that everyone  
against Air Force any less  at BYU in 2004, when he  plays."  As Freeman steps into the  on the team has total confi­ 
impressive.  caught three balls.  He came to Notre Dame  role of starting tight end this  dence that Marcus can per­ 
Freeman had logged just  The St. Paul, Minn. native  because of the combination of  weekend against Army and  form," he said.  
three starts in 10 games this  started playing football at an  athletics and academics, citing  next week against USC, Weis  
season, all when the Irish were  early age, as well as soccer,  the high graduation rate of  expressed confidence in his  Contact Kate Gales at  
in multiple tight-end sets.  basketball and T-hall. His  Irish players as a selling point.  ability.  kgales@nd.edu  
But when first-team tight end  uncle coached a team for third  Current Irish offensive lineman  
John Carlson went down with  and fourth graders and con­ Ryan Harris and former Irish  
a knee injury early against the  vinced Marcus' mother to let  fullback Rashon Powers-Neal  
Falcons, Irish coach Charlie  him come out for the team.  both attended Cretin-Durham  
Weis had no doubts about the  "Mothers don't want their  with Freeman.  
backup's ability to step into a  kids getting hurt," he said.  As the season winds down,  
starting role.  "She does [still worry about  Freeman has found himself in  
"He's been solid all year,"  me], especially in camp and  more of a spotlight role. But he  
Weis said. "It's just that a lot of  when it's hot outside. She  is also focused on the future.  
balls haven't come in his direc­ always worries."  He said he "aspires to the  
tion. So a lot of times when a  As his career continued,  NFL" and thinks that his time  
guy doesn't have a whole  though, the support of his par­ at Notre Dame ­including the  
bunch of catches, people cor­ ents was important. They come  emotional and difficult coach­ 
relate that with not having a  to many of his games, includ­ ing change in 2004 -may  
good year."  ing away.  help him in that goal.  
Freeman came into the Air  His parents have seen  "You get to experience two  
Force game with three catches  Freeman's many position  totally different guys, two dif­ 
in 2006. He had a 10-yard  changes. He started out play­ ferent personalities, two differ­ 
grab against Georgia Tech, a  ing running back, and moved  ent coaching styles," he said. "I  
2-yarder against Penn State  to offensive line.  think everybody here aspires  
and a 25-yard catch against  By his freshman year at  to go to the NFL, when you  
Stanford. The 23-yard catch  Cretin-Durham Hall in St. Paul,  have experience with different  
from quarterback Brady Quinn in the end zone of Falcon  Freeman settled in at tight end.  head coaches, you're that much more prepared to go to  - 
Stadium last Saturday was his  "I tried out for wide receiver  the next level and deal with  
first career touchdown.  and my freshman coach actu­ coaches at the next level."  
The touchdown wasn't the  ally moved me to tight end," he  Off the field, Freeman is  
only part of his play that stood  said. "It's really versatile. You  known to play NCAA football  
out to Weis, though.  become an offensive lineman  video games, though never  
"He has the catch for the  at times and at other times you  playing with Notre Dame. He  
touchdown as his one catch for  can be a receiver down the  also played in Notre Dame's  
the day," Weis said. "[But] the  field making plays."  Bookstore Basketball tourna­ 
fact that John went down - Freeman has experienced  ment, making it to the Sweet  
when you have a guy that's  both of those roles with the  16.  LAURIE: HUNTfThe Observer  
been playing really well like  Irish, although he has been  "I like to have fun," he said.  Irish tight end Marcus Freeman  runs through a drill in practice  
John has been, and he goes  primarily used as a blocking  "Guys who know me know I  Sept. 7 at the Loftus Sports Ce nter  

page 26 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 17, 2006 
Sizing up the Irish and the Black Knights 
I 

!Notre Dame ; I. Army
t 
I 

32.0 ~ 20.9
.. Points....S..core.d. ~ 


21.6 26.8
·······-1 
' 

....Io..tal...Yards......Gained.....·.~-~··.·.·......... ,,.,,,. ""··· 393.3 ' 272.9 



354.5 


.Rushing .Yards. G.ained....... ........ . 114.0 ' 137.1 -'••"' -'"'""'''" ••• ~ 
' 

Rushing Yards Allowed .........·.....·.········· .···· .. . ~ 133.7 190.2 
~ 

... Ea.ssing"..Yards.... Gained......·.······· ......................... ··.·.. ~><··· 
195.5 0.33 


~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
: ~ 
[ ~ 
t 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
f f 
~ 
t 
~ ' ~ 
' 
• ~ 
.
. 
. 
' ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ­
' 
' ~ 
~ 
' 
• ~ 
• 
. ' 
• 
• 
. ­
. 
. 
. 

-· 
One and only 
With personality, talent and drive, this year's seniors led 
Notre Dame out of one of the worst stretches in school history. From a field -storming win over Michigan in 2004 to a near-toppling of No. 1 Southern California in 2005, 
Brady Quinn, Tom Zbikowski and the Irish have lifted 
Notre Dame to the top of college football 
once again. 

-
-
-


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 17, 2006 
New year brings new chances for fresh group 
Midway through October, Notre Dame held its annual media day. Coach Mike Brey answered questions and reporters had their first opportunity to speak with the team about the upcoming year. 
The mood was strik­
ingly different from last season. After a 2005-06 campaign defined by close losses, the Irish players were loose and optimistic, speaking openly about their NCAA Tournament dreams. 

It was an attitude  Bob Griffin  
that can only result  
from feeling no outside  Sports Writer  
pressure or expecta­ 

tions. Because let's call a spade a spade. With three upperclassmen on the Irish roster in a league (the Big East) where battle-tested seniors rise to the top -see Gerry McNamara's 2006 Big East tourna­ment-nobody's expecting much out of Notre Dame. 
But that doesn't mean the Irish lack the ability to turn some heads. 
On paper, they lost their two biggest names, forward Tarin Francis and guard Chris Quinn. As strange as it sounds, the team is better off without them. Francis peaked his freshman season, as nagging injuries slowly transformed him from an NBA draft pick into a European pro. 
And for all of Quinn's brilliance -he was a warrior and the team's undisputed leader -he was perhaps carrying more weight than his slender 200-pound body could handle. 
What that did to last season's group was clear. Game-by-game it was either estab­lish Francis inside, when his back never allowed him to dominate Big East for­wards, or more often, let Quinn take over while teammates stood around watching. 
But that era of Notre Dame basketball is over. This year's group is fresh -reflect­ed by the nine-man rotation that features four sophomores and two freshmen. 
For the first time since the program's 2003 Sweet 16 run, there's a definite energy and excitement on the court. The Irish are playing off each other, making the extra pass and applying pressure on the defensive end. 
And given the scoring balance seen in the team's first four games-Notre Dame's got chemistry. Nobody is standing around waiting for one player to take over the game. 
That's only one reason why this year's group is in better shape than the last few seasons. Let's look at four others: 

+Colin Falls could be the best captain Notre Dame has had since its Sweet 16 run. Brey's touted him as having great command of the Irish system, and his teammates look to him as a seeond coach -especially the younger guys who will be instrumental if Notre Dame does well this season. 
But what's more impressive is Falls' early season willingness to contribute in other ways besides scoring. The senior guard has shown an interest in fitting into ofl'ensive sets and contributing oiT the ball, instead of camping out at the 3-point line or running baseline screens to get his 15 shots a game. 
He also looks more athletic and quicker on defense than he's appeared in his pre­vious three seasons, which could be the result of the team's focus on improved conditioning in the ofl'-season. 
+ For all of Falls' early willingness to play a secondary role in the oll'ense, Russell Carter seems poised to emerge as the primary scoring threat. But he doesn't appear to want the ball at the expense of keeping others involved in the offensn. 
There's no debating Carter's question­able body language at times. He admits he's an animated player who grows frus­trated when his shots aren't falling-but all scorers have that attitude. And that's exactly what Carter is -a scorer. 
Notre Dame is going to go as far as Carter wants to take it this season. As the most athletic player on the floor for the Irish, and one of the top athletes in the Big East, Carter is a glaring mismatch. l-Ie's too physical for most guards and too fast for most forwards. And if defenses start rotating his way, Falls will be waiting on the other side of the noor with open looks. 
The key for Carter will be staying involved on the nights he shoots 30 per­cent. 
+For the first time since the arrival of Chris Thomas, the point guard is not the focal point of Brey's offense. But that's no knock on sophomore Kyle McAlarney who has the athletic explosiveness Notre Dame has been missing at the point since Thomas' knee injury. 
But more important than his ability to get to the basket-which he has shown in the early part of this season -is his maturity and intuitive on-court aware­ness. 
In the team's second exhibition game against Bellarmine, McAlarney found him­self on a fast break aftHr stnaling the ball near the 3-point line. Instead of taking it himself, he threw a c~asual bounce pass up to Carter-who up until that point had been having a slow night. 
MeAlarney under­stood hA needed to gp,t Cartnr involvnd, and doing that was more important than adding to his own point total in the lopsided game. Mature decisions like that from the Staten Island native will pay huge dividends on the young, developing tp,am. 
+Notre Dame has its most athletic for­wards in Brey's tenure at Notre Dame in junior Hob Kurz, freshman Luke Harangody and sophmores Luke Zeller and Zaeh Hillesland. 
Kurz is becoming a legitimate inside threat for the Irish. His quickness, strength and agility separates him from the less complete forwards on Notre Dame's roster, and it wouldn't be a sur­prise to see him emerge in the Big East as a dominant big man. 
Harangody is young, and will likely go through growing pains at some point this year, but his aggressiveness and attitude is something Notre Dame has been miss­ing at the forward position. 
Zeller spent the summer playing abroad, and it left him with improved post moves and more confidence. But he's still more comfortable stepping outside and has been in foul trouble often early this season. 
Hillesland eould play every position on the court if he was asked given his ability to pass, rebound and lead fast breaks. He has the height to play down low, but is more effective when he can use his ath­leticism to spread out defenses. 
orcourse, none of this guarantees a successful season. Notre Dame came out flat against Butler, losing despite being more athletic and talented. But if it can use the loss as motivation for No. 10/11 Alabama and Maryland -the loss will hurt them less than the wins will help them. 

Beeause Notre Dame has to prove it can handle the Big East grind and Falls, Carter and Kurz are the only truly battle tested players on the Irish roster. 
Zelller was rarely used down the stretch last season, McAlarney was play­ing second fiddle to Quinn and Hillesland was hanging out with walk-on Chris Murphy at the end of the bench. 
But if the Irish can get on a run early and build confidence among the young group, Notre Dame's got a shot to win 10 Big East games in a schedule that doesn't include Pitt or Connecticut. 
And if not, at least it will be because of youth and inexperience -not injuries and excuses. The Notre Dame basketball hangover is over after three down sea­sons marred with injuries and disapoint­ment. 
It's time for a breath of fresh air. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgrifji3@nd. edu 


LEAGUE OF THEIR OwN 

Jackson provides Irish spark 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
In Notre Dame's second exhibition game against Bellarmine, Tory Jackson got to the free throw line 10 times. 
The slashing freshman point guard attacked the basket with reg­ularity, getting to the line and embodying coach Mike 13rey's new up-tempo, aggressive style for the Irish. 
"When we push the ball, they're even going to have to foul us or let us get an easy basket," Jackson said. 
Coming off a 3-of-5, six point per­formance off the bench against IPFW Nov. 10, Jackson's energy ignited the Irish each time he entered the game. Brey said Jackson and starting point guard Kyle McAlarney may both play at the same time to give the Irish more quiekness and more options for the fast break. 
Jackson said he's happy with that role, especially because he looks up to MrAlarney as a team leader. 
"Kyle's a leader on the floor," Jackson said. "He knows the oflfmse, he knows the defp,nse and he knows what the coaches expect." 
Before the season, Brey called Jackson an "energy guy," a spark­plug that can push the ball and di<;­tribute on the break, but like all young players Jack'iOn ha..'> to learn to harness that energy. In his first collegiate experience, an exhibition game against Hockhurst Nov. 1, Jackson committed two personal fouls in 12 minutes and took several ofl'balance shots. 
"He wa..<; excited," Brey said after that game. "A little too excited." 
But while McAlarney and the other upperdassmen having been showing the newcomers the ropes, Jackson and fellow freshmen for­ward Luke Harangody, guard Joe Harden, guard .Jonathan Peoples and guard Tllll Andree have taught the veterans a thing or too a.<; well. 
"All of the freshmen pushed the starters," Jackson said. "Big Uor­ward] Luke Harangody made [soph­omore] Luke Zeller a better defend­er. I think I pushed Kyle and I know that I want to be as good as him." 
Plus, .Jack<;on says, the freshmen have brought a new attitude to an Iri'ih program that has mi'>sed the NCAA Tournament each of the la..<;t three years. 
"The freshmen came in here try­ing to change things, and the older guys bought into it," Jackson said. "We have the mentality where we're pissed. We're pissed at every­body. We want to make a statement this year." 
Jackson knows how to win. He led his high school -Saginaw, Mich.'s Buena Vista -to a state championship his senior year while averaging 30.5 points, 10.0 assists and eight rebounds while running up and down the floor in the Knight's high paced offense. He won three Michigan Player of the Year awards and is the state's third all­time leading scorer. 
Ofcourse: in order to run the floor Jackson will have to see the floor, which is why he got his eyes tested before the season started. For the first time in his life, Jackson will wear contacts. 
"I noticed a big change," he said. "Everything was all of a sudden so clear. I felt like a little kid. I was real­ly excited." 
Jackson realizes he and his fellow freshmen represent a new era in Irish basketball. Starting with this year's very young team, which fea­tures only two scholarship seniors -guards Colin Falls and Russell Carter-and one junior -forward Rob Kurz -the new freshmen and McAlarney's sophomore class will be the core of the team for seasons to come. 
"I'm excited for the next few years where we get to hang with each other and keep getting better. It's going to be scary for other teams," Jackson said. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

Friday, November 17, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
The odd couple 
Senior guards Colin Falls and Russell Carter have different games but similar goals for 2006-07 
ern suburb of Park Ridge. than 10 seconds to play, Falls By CHRIS KHOREY From a young age, he had launched a desperation shot Associate Sports Editor clear basketball abilities. while colliding with Hoyas 
But he wasn't always just a guard Brandon Bowman. 
One is a spot up shooter and jumpshooter. In high school he The shot hit nothing but net, a quiet teacher. The other is a led his Loyola Academy team and Falls drained the clutch slasher and an emotional fire­with 25 points, seven rebounds free throw as the Joyce Center brand. Together they have one and four assists per game, crowd went wild. goal -leading Notre Dame to graduating as the school's all­Unfortunately for the would­its first NCAA Tournament time leading scorer. He was Mr. be hero, the Irish couldn't capi­berth in four years. Everything for the Ramblers, talize and ended up losing in 
Sharpshooter Colin Falls and one time scoring 51 points in a double overtime. all-around athlete Russell game. It was a game that summed Carter have opposite styles on When he got to Notre Dame, up last season for Falls. the court, but as the only two however, he found himself Something would go well, only scholarship seniors on the Irish behind guards Chris Thomas to be countered by another roster, their leadership will be and Chris Quinn. Falls knew he numbingly close loss. He had key for a Notre Dame squad had to find niche if he wanted his personal ups and downs as bent on returning to the to get on the court, so he well, as any shooter does, get­NCAAs. worked tirelessly on perfecting ting hot one game and finding 
"Whenever we go out on the his jump shot. nothing but iron in the next. floor, whoever we're playing, "When I got here, my role the Falls credits coach Mike Brey we're playing for the NCAA first few years was to spot up with keeping him going Tournament," Falls says. and take passes from Chris through the rough stretches. 
When Falls and Carter Quinn and Chris Thomas, so "Every year you're going to arrived on campus, NCAA I've really worked on my shot a have a couple games where appearances were a regular lot," Falls says. you go 1-of-6, 2-of-7 from the occurrence. The Irish had His freshmen year, Falls three-point line," Falls says. made the Tournament three averaged almost 16 minutes a "That's why Coach Brey's the straight years and advanced to game and drained 37 threes, a best. He sticks with his guys the Sweet 16 in 2003, the huge total given that he only and lets you work your way spring before the two seniors made 4 7 shots. It was during back into a rhythm. Shooters arrived on campus. this season that he gained his go through slumps and you 
"When I got here expecta­reputation among Irish fans as have to shoot your way out of tions were higher," Falls says. a three-point specialist. it." "We've played below expecta­The next year, Falls played a That calm wisdom translates tions a little bit for whatever much larger role, starting 22 into Falls' leadership style on reason, but it'll be good if we games alongside Thomas and and off the court. He's not very can leave on a high note." Quinn and averaging 12.6 vocal while playing -in one of 
Now, as seniors, Carter and points per game. He hit a Notre Notre Dame's exhibition games Falls are looked up to by their Dame-sophomore record 93 he greeted an official's bad underclassmen teammates and threes that years, including judgment on an out of bounds have worked together to instill eight in one game against call with a simple "that was off a new attitude. Pittsburgh. him" before turning to play 
"If we've got something to Having solidified his spot in defense. say, we'll say it to the group," the starting lineup, Falls found But young players credit him Carter says. himself called upon to be one with patiently teaching them 
And what they're saying has of Notre Dame's top scoring when they were confused worked so far, as an Irish team threats last year in his junior about Brey's system or the col­Carter says. But through it all, Carter just that features five freshmen and season. With Thomas having lege game in general. He also says he chose the wants to have a good time. four sophomores is talking graduated, Falls was the sec­"A lot of upperclassmen have number to be distinctive. "We need to continue to have seriously about being a con­ond leading scorer for the Irish helped me, especially Colin "There aren't very many peo­fun," he says. "If we have fun, tender this year. with 13.8 points per game. He Falls," freshman point guard ple with then number 43 and then everything will follow 
"We need to make the NCAA also set the school record for Tory Jackson says. "He's really those that have it aren't very course. If we treat it like a job Tournament," Falls says. three-pointers in a season helped me understand what's much known," Carter says. and people don't want to be "That's the only thing on our (102). going on out there." Brey continued to ignore here we won't have success." minds." Of course, last year wasn't all Carter's cheering section dur­
rosy for Falls, who saw the The high flying screamer ing the guard's sophomore The future The quiet marksman Irish fall in numerous close Carter is as loud on the court year. He got in more games If either Fails or Carter is Falls was born in Chicago, Ill. games. On Jan. 24, with the as Falls is quiet. He routinely than in his freshman year (24) going to have a career in the 
and grew up in the northwest-Irish trailing by four and less screams and whoops after a and he got his first career start NBA, a lot is riding on their made basket and is always try­against Holy Cross in the NIT, performance -both individu­ing to fire up the crowd. but he averaged only 3.5 points ally and collectively -this sea­
It's not that Carter wants to per game. son. But neither has given up draw excess attention to him­The next year, Carter moved the dream of playing profes­self -it's just the way that he into the starting lineup and sionally yet. learned to play growing up in became a major contributor, "If you don't want to get to Paulsboro, N.J., across the averaging 11.6 points per the next level, why play bas­river from Philadelphia. game, good enough for third on ketball?" Carter said. 
"I love playing basketball," the team. He also increased the Falls has even gone so far as Carter says. "It's fun being out size of his cheering section to pursue Irish citizenship, there. Playing back at home, with his dramatic athletic plays which he can get through his when you play basketball you and soaring dunks. grandfather, in order to make always got to talk a little some­"When a play breaks down, it easier for him to play over­thing to show you're the best." you have to improvise and seas next year -if he doesn't 
Carter has had plenty of fun that's when creativity will find a spot on an NBA roster. through his basketball career. show," Carter says. "Who does­"I want to play basketball for He averaged 30 points per n't like to show their creativi­as long as I can," he said. game in leading Paulsboro high ty? That's basketball." But before that, Carter and school to a 24-4 record his sen­Sometimes, however, Brey's Falls have one more goal for ior year. definition of "when a play their time at Notre Dame ­
His first year at Notre Dame, breaks down" is different than make good on their last chance Carter made a splash despite Carter's. The coach has made to reach the NCAAs. This year only appearing in just 11 it no secret to the guard that is the odd couple's chance to games and scoring nine total he wants to see him work with­shine, with Falls' quiet leader­points. in the offense more. ship and clutch jumpers and 
Carter's roommate and "We pretty much stick to our Carter's emotion and crowd­friends made T-shirts and led motion offense," Carter says of electrifying plays leading the cheers for him to come into the Brey's game plans. "We can't Irish in the Big East. game. The T-shirts, which can be robots but we generally Because for as much as still be seen on occasion at the stick to the script." Carter and Falls are opposites Joyce Center, quoted Carter Carter is ready to become a -they want the exact same saying he would make people star for the Irish in his senior thing this season. remember his jersey number season. He led the team with Maybe they're not so differ­-No. 43. 20 points in the opening win ent after all. 
PHIL HUDELSON/The Observer "My roommate made T-shirts against IPFW Nov. 10 and and he said 'say something for added 20 more against Contact Chris Khorey at the shirt' and I said that," Lafayette Tuesday. ckhorey@nd.edu 



page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 17, 2006 
Headshots courtesy of und.com 2006-07 OUTLOOK Photos by PHIL HUDELSON!The Observer 

TIM ANDREE 
FORWARD 6'8", 238 lbs. No. 41-FR 
Senior H.S. stats 
Minutes 14.0 Points 8.0 
2006-07 expectations Andree joins the team as a freshman walk-on and is a valuable addition to the Irish practice squad. One of five freshman on this season's roster. 
LUKE HARANGODY 
FORWARD 6'8", 250 lbs. No. 44-FR 
Senior H.S. stats 
Points 23.6 Rebounds 12.8 
2006-07 expectations Harangody looks strong early in the post and should be a key factor in Big East play. He's a "blue collar" player who understands the power forward position. 
ROB KURZ 
FORWARD (Capt.) 6'9", 235 lbs. No. 31-JR 
2005-06 stats 
Points 6.4 Rebounds 5.1 FG% 46.6 
2006-07 expectations Kurz is quickly becoming a top Big East forward with his positioning and strength in the post. The junior captain can rebound, pass and finish down low. 
2006-07 expectations Zeller looks stronger after a summer playing abroad, but still needs to prove he can handle post duties. He's an excellent outside shooter for his size. 
RYAN AYERS 
GUARD/FOHWARD 6'8", 210 lbs. No. 42-SO 
2005-06 stats 
Minutes 6.8 Points 1.1 Rebounds 0.7 


2006-07 expectations Ayers was rarely used as a freshman but played 34 minutes in an NIT loss to Michigan. He should be a solid role player in this year's nine-man rotation. 
JOE HARDEN 
GUAHD 6'7", 212lbs. No. 11-FR 
Senior H.S. stats 
Points 17.0 Rebounds 10.0 


2006-07 expectations Harden comes from a strong ll.S. team, and is one of the bigger !,'Uards on the Irish roster. He's shown athlntieism and promise during preaseason play. 
KYLE McALARNEY 
GUAHD 6'1", 194 lbs. No. 23-SO 
2005-06 stats 
Points 6.6 Assists 2.5 3-point % 43.0 

2006-07 expectations McA1arney is an explosive seorer and creative playmaker who will have an increased role this season. He could become one of the league's best points. 
MIKE BREY 
HEAD COACH 7th season 118-70 overall 
2005-06 record 
Season Big East 

2006-07 expectations Brey has not taken the Irish to the NCAAs since the 2002-03 season. After focusing on the Big East tourney last year, he has bigger hopes for this group. 
RUSSELL CARTER 
(iUAHD 6'4", 220 lbs. No. 43 -SH 
2005-06 stats 
Points  11.5  
Hebounds  5.1  
:{-point %  41.0  

2006-07 expectations Cartnr exploded in the second half of last season and should continue to bn one of the top offensive options this ynar. Productive rebounder for hi'> size. 
ZACH HILLESLAND 
FOHWAHD 6'9", 227 lbs. No. 33-SO 
2005-06 stats 
Points 0.6 
Hebounds 
Assists 

2006-07 expeetations llillnsland is an exeiting player who has all tho tools. Ilis minutns will Ouctuatn on a gamo-by-gamn basis, but the for­ward will be a faetor in tho Big East. 
JONATHAN PEOPLES 
GUARD 6'3", 214 lbs. No. 20-FR 
Senior H.S. stats 
Points 15.2 
Rebounds 4.0 
Assists 4.0 
2006-07 expectations Peoples offers Notrn Dame an athletic option off the bench, but will likely be used sparingly. lie's already shown an ability to get to the basket in preseason. 
11/10/06 vs.IPFW-W 
...... 11/13/06 vs. Butler -L 
--·11/14/06 vs. Lafayette-W 
,.._1111..11/19/06 vs. The Citadel 
'--•11/27/06 vs. Lehigh 
'---11/29/06 vs. Winston-Salem State 
12/03/06 vs. Maryland 
12/07/06 vs. Alabama 
12/30/06 vs. Stony Brook 
1/03/07 vs. Louisville 
01/06/07 at Georgetown 
01/09/07 vs. West Virginia 
1•-•01/14/07 vs. Seton Hall 
01/21/07 vs. USF 
02/24/07 vs. Marquette 

COLIN FALLS 
GUARD (Capt.) 6'5", 200 lbs. No.15-SH 
2005-06 stats 
Points  14.8  
Hebounds  2.2  
:{-point%  39.7  



2006-07 expectations Falls assumes a leadership role as one of two captains. The deadly shooter has shown an ability to contribute off the ball and looks morn athletic early on. 
YILUIOYA 
e 









