
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Mass for Vtrginia Tech provides consolation, hope 
Students, community members fill Basilica 
just orqained on Saturday. 
By JOHN TIERNEY The Mass, presided over by 
News Writer Vice President for Student 
Affairs Father Mark Poorman, 
Only a week after Easter, was organized Monday after th_e Notre Dame community news of the 33-person mas­once again "finds [itself] at sacre at Virginia Tech broke. the foot of the Cross," said Students were informed of the Father Pete McCormick dur­Mass by an urgent IrishLink ing his homily at a memorial email from Poorman late Mass for the Virginia Tech Monday. community Tuesday night at The Basilica was packed to the Basilica of the Sacred a standing room only capacity, Heart. with the entire rear lobby of 
"We always have the Cross the church completely full. in our life, but we do nut The Mass drew more people grieve without hope," said than last fall's 9/11 five-year McCormick, the assistant rec­tor of Dillon Hall, who was see MASS/page 9 


COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 


Leaders consider responses to tragedy 
BySONIARAO News Writer 
In light of the Virginia Tech shooting tragedy Monday, stu­dent body president Liz Brown asked members of the Council of Representatives (COR) for input Tuesday on how the Notre Dame student body could show its support to the campus located in Blacksburg, Va. 
"Immediately after this hap­pened, [student body vice president] Maris [Braun] and I started talking about what we should send as a student body," Brown said, noting that both she and Braun had already received e-mails from concerned students with sug­gestions. 
"One of the ideas that has 
been tossed around is some kind of letter that we would write and solicit signatures from the student body from a variety of points on campus," Brown said. "We just want to get as many signatures of sup­port as possible to send in one package. We could also have blank cards at those sites that people could write messages 

on." 
Braun said she looked on Virginia Tech's Web site and saw the school was observing National Maroon and Gold Day. 
"I think that it would be a really cool thing if we could get Notre Dame students to observe this day sometime next week or something ... maybe notify them through 
see COR/page 9 



South Bend eyes role in Olympics 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
With Chicago aiming to play host to the 2016 summer Olympics, city leaders of South Bend have pondered appropri­ate roles they could play to enhance Chicago's plan to win the international bidding war-though Notre Dame's contribution to the effort remains uncer­tain. 
The official application for host city is due to the International Olympic com­mittee in September, and the IOC will announce its decision in October 2009. Until then, said Greg Ayers, executive director of the South Bend/Mishawaka 
see-OLYMPICS/ page 9 


Africa Week celebrates cultural past, future goals 
Events focus on both problems, positives Panel examines microfinance in Africa 
Rwandan genocide -otherwise impossible busi­ByJENN METZ along with several oppor­By JOHN-PAUL WITT ness opportunities, said News Writer tunities to enjoy African News Writer professor Frank Belatti of 
food, dance and music. the Mendoza College of 
Notre Dame and the Africa Week is designed Micro finance is one of the Business, who was joined Congregation of Holy to offer a more positive most promising ways to on the panel by several Cross have long histories view of the continent as help the developing world, business students. with the African continent one that is changing and said panelists at Tuesday's While micrbfinance has -and this week's Africa developing, and to also "Microfinance in Africa" been practiced since the Week events are intended raise awareness of its cur­presentation. 1970s, the award of this to both reflect on these rent problems. Students filled a class­year's Nobel Peace Prize to histories and look toward "Certainly, Africa has room in DeBartolo Hall for Muhammad Yunus, who the future. more than its fair share of the discussion, which con­founded a bank to provide 
The week features struggles," said Notre tinued the work of "Africa loans to impoverished resi­events including an Dame Millennium Week" with an examination dents of Bangladesh, has African Mass, a panel dis­Development Initiative of strategies used to help spurred more interest in cussion on microfinance Director Father Bob poor Africans start their the concept from the corpo­in Africa, a Theology on Dowd. "However, the own businesses. rate world. Tap about the Church in media often reports only Microfinance entails pro­"What got Yunus excited Africa, a lecture by the the bad news out of viding loans in amounts as was the capacity to help the deputy ambassador of Africa, and t-his often little as $50 to the working poor with loans -now, Ghana to the U.S. and a poor in Africa to enable commemoration of the see AFRICA/page 6 them to take advantage of see PANEL/page 4 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Reflections onVT 
They say God L<> everywhere, in the slums and in the churches and in war and in peace. So I want to think God was there in that French class at VIrginia Tech, when students were still tired and blinking from not getting enough . 
sleep the night Allison Ambrose before, probably wishing it was still 
Photographer
the weekend and replaying stories of their drunk friends in their heads ­maybe planning who they would go to lunch with that day or when they would go running that afternoon. .. I'm sure God was there in the seconds before the first shots rang out. Maybe some teachers joked around and made their students laugh, perhaps a late sleep­er tardily jogged into the room and quietly took his seat, maybe someone was texting their boyfriend or girlfriend about getting togetl1er that night to do homework. Maybe Cho Seung-Hui paused outside the door to the engineering classroom and asked himself ifhe was really about to go through with what he planned. 
I know beyond the shadow ofa doubt that God was there as the Holocaust sur­vivor blocked the way into his classroom with his body and wa<> thus killed as his terrified students leaped out the windows, and also when a student had the presence ofmind to prevent twelve more deaths by shoving a table against the classroom door. 
But then Cho lined up and executed the students and teachers. He entered class­room after classroom. He knew exactly what he was doing and must have consid­ered his mL<>sion accomplL<>hed as he turnPd the gun around on himsetl'. And then I start to wonder about God. 
There's plenty to be said about Vrrginia Tech's lack of response after the first attack, and I'd like to think that Notre Dame would act faster and more efficient­ly. I would want NDSP swarming the ean1­pus, elasses eancelled, dorms locked down -more, certainly, than an e-mail. 
I want to think that campus and South Bend police would be combing DeBartolo all day long, that my rector would come to my room to make sure I was safe and that I could call home to reassure my mother that I wouldn't be coming home early this year in a long wooden box. 
I don't want to picture prayer services in the Basilica and at the Grotto, packed with students whose tears run down their faces as they shine in the candlelight. I never want to see the Dome on Fox News with the headline "MASSACRE" running beneath in ugly red and black text, or have to nunilily wander downstairs to the chapel to pray with other mourning stu­dents, or, worst of all, wait through ram­pant rumors and unfounded reports to read a list ofpeople whose funerals I'd be attending next week. I can't imagine my life screan1ing to a halt like that. But I also can't imagine that God wouldn't be iliere too. 
I want to think that I'd have the strengfu to keep going after my cla<>smates were gunned down, albeit with a terribly sud­den knowledge ofreal pain. But just like the ilioughts in Cho's head. the last emo­tions ofthe victims and the dread bubbling up in the heart<> ofthe parent<> who received calls from Vrrginia Tech adminis­trators yesterday; I have no idea what it would be like. 
But, danrn-I can't ask for anythlng more than to be left in that kind ofobliv­ion. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those (~{The Observer. 
Contact Allison Ambrose at aambrose@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regard, ir,clf as'' prol~'<ionalpublic;~­rion and 'rrivco t<>r rbc higbesr 'randartb of journal­ism al all rime.;;. W... dll. hv::::._-._·r. rEa-llr,ni?c that \",.._. will mah mi."ak,·-.. If Wl' ha•·.· mad,-.1misrake. ) _!~'-~o.(lnil~~ l!·, J[ (,_~,)--t l4l_~nl \'.'~.L.Ifl 
l 
Ofl't't-t ')U[ ~-~I"· H. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, April 18, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE SUMMER OLYMPICS SPORT? 








Matt Casanova  Kelly Donley  Kelly Kanavy  Louise Eich  Morgan Schulz  Andrew Masak  
junior Keenan  sophomore Breen-Phillips  freshman Lyons  freshman Lyons  sophomore Howard  sophomore Dillon  
"Pole vaulting. They go high."  "Equestrian. I'm from Kentucky."  "Gymnastics, because I did gymnastics for  "Swimming. Michael Phelps is the man!"  "Gymnastics. It'sjust fascinating to  "Ultimate Frisbee. I love those flying  

a long time." watch them, discs and torn and I did it for ACLs. , seven years. " 

OFFBEAT 
Law hinders police in lewd library case 
NEENAH, Wis. -A law protecting library records' confidentiality has ham­strung officials pursuing a man who reportedly mastur­bated among the books at the Neenah Public Library earlier this month. City Attorney James Godlewski said the library can't turn a surveillance video of the man over to police without a court order. 
"That is state law," Godlewski said Monday. ""''he library is merely fol­lowing what state law says." 
The Wisconsin attorney general's office said in a Nov. 27 opinion that library sur-
TODAY 

..... 
<C 
(,) 0 

HIGH 52
..J 
LOW 40 
veillance videos fall under the state's public library records confidentiality law. The la-w prevents libraries from releasing records that indicate a library user's iden­tity unless someone's life or safety is at risk. 
NYC couple complete 2,500-mile cab ride 
PHOENIX-A retired New York couple who hailed a taxi for their 2,500-mile move to northern Arizona arrived with their two eats at their destination on Monday. 
Neither Betty nor Bob Matas drive and they wanted to spare their eats, Pretty Face and Cleopatra, a trip on an airplann to their retirP­ment home about 90 miles north of Phoenix. 

They left thP couple's Queens neighborhood April 10 in Douglas Guldeniz's canary-colored Ford SUV cab and traveled about 10 hours a day for a $3,000 flat rate plus gas, meals and lodging. The SUV is a hybrid­electric vehicle, which helped iessen the cost of fuel. 
"It was pretty tiring, for my wife especially," said Bob Matas, 72, a former audio and video engineer for advertising agencies. "We're happy where we are. We're · happy and that's it." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 




50 HIGH 60 HIGH 70 36 LOW 35 LOW 42 
IN BRIEF 
As part of the Rev. Theodore 

M. Hesburgh, CSC Lectures on Ethics and Public Policy, for­mer under-secretary-general of the United Nations Sbasbi Tharoor will speak about "The Future of the United Nations" today at 12:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
. Notre Dame women's softball will play Ball State today at 5 
p.m. at Ivy Field. Admission is free. 
The ROTC Parade and Ceremony: Presidential Pass in Review will take place today at 
5:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center fieldhouse. Cadets and midship­men of Notre Dame's HOTC pro­grams will participate in a for­mal ceremony of precision drilling, awards to top cadets and midshipmen and a parade in honor of University officials and Commanding Officers. University President Father John Jenkins will award this year's winning branch the Notre Dame Commander's Cup. 
The Ballroom Dance Club will host "Merengue with Hamzi Bualuan" today from 8 to 10:30 
p.m. at 205 Rockne. Dancers of all skill levels are invited. Beginners are asked to come from 8 to 9, social dance from 9 to 9:30 and advanced from 9:30 to 10:30. The cost is $4 for the night or $35 for the semester. The club is open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students, faculty and staff. 
"The Shirt" will be unveiled at 6 p.m. Friday at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


Atlanta 73 I 45 Bosh:~ 42 ! 39 Chicago 59 r 33 Denver 56 I 36 Houston 75 I 55 Los Angeles 71 I 54 Minneapolis 59 ! 43 New York 52 I 39 •'hiladelphia 50 I 36 Phoenix 85 I 54 Seattle 52 I 4 1 St. Louis 71 I 44 Tampa 76 I 56 Washington 57 I 36 
.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, April 18, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Author faces 1 life -without ED' 
Lecture focuses on the road to recovering from an eating disorder 
By MANDl STIRONE 
News Writer 
Singer. songvvritnr and author of "Life Without ED" Jenni Schaefer spoke to Saint Mary's students about her experience with an eating disorder Tuesday night in the Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall. 
"After going through y!'ars and years and years of and eating disorder, I actually love my body today.'' she said. 
She explained that an "ideal body weight" is not a specific number, but the weight at which a person is strong. energetic and able to live a healthy life. 
Sc~aefer told how her therapist had her view lwr eating disorder as an abu­sive relationship with a person named Ed, standing for ''Eating Disorder." She said this method helped her isolate the self­destructive thoughts of her eating disorder from the other underlying issues. 
Schaefer said that her eating disorder started very early, showing the audience her dance cos­tume from when she was four, and tf'lling tlwm that at the time, she thought she was fat. She also point­ed to Barbif' dolls and the media in general as cfln­tributors to her problem, 
but was crtreful to say that bad." she doesn't hate the media. She said the average 
Schaefer also explained recovery for an eating dis­how hPr disorder pro­order takes five to seven gressed over the years. years, and it isn't uncom­
She hit a whole new levf'l mon at all for people to or her eating disorder in re!apsf'., high school because she ·That s why I'm here, became a because it gets perfectionist. bf't.ter, com­By doing so, "Being bad is not pletely better. she didn't full recoverv,"
[eating}
have any fun Schaefer sail
cheesecake.
or frie.nds, She then she said. Stealing from a handed out s h p grocery store is some pam­
became elin­phlets and indi­
bad.,
ically cated a table in anorf:'xic the entrance­when she got Jenni Schaefer way that had to Texas information on
author and singer 
A & M because "Ed" convinced her to lose 15 pounds before she gained the "freshmai1 15," she said. 
Schaefer did not hit rock bottom until after college when she moved io Nashville. Tenn., she said. While there she finallv realized that she had a problem and was able to tell her boyfriend at the time. 
Whf'n she finally got help, it was an uphill bat­tle, she explained. She learned intuitive eating, where food is neither good nor bad. ­
''Being bad is not cheese­cake," she said. "Stealing from a grocery store is 
support groups, 
contact infor­mation for help and gener­al information on eating disorders. 
"I believe if you never, never give up you will make it," she said. 
Schaefer ended with a song she wrote entitled, "Life without Ed" and took questions from the audi­enee before beginning a small group discussion. 
The· presentation was sponsored by the Residence Hall Association (HHA). the Counseling Center, the Inn at Saint Mary's and the Freedom Hevolution. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group awards $500 to SMC Dance Marathon 
By LIZ HARTER 
News \V'riter 

Saint Marv's Board of Gov"ernance (BOG) members voted for a $500 eo-sponsorship for the College's upeoming Dance Marathon at their meeting Monday night, before new stu­dent body president Kim Hodges discussed what she expects of BOG in lhe upeoming year. 
Danee Marathon entertainment co-chairs Anne Cusak and Catherine Wagner asked for the donation from BOG to help finance the "blow-up" activities available for dancers. 
"We think it's important. it's going to get everybody pumped up to have a good night," Wagner said. 
"We're almost doubling the number of daneers." Cusak said. "[The co-sponsorship] will affect probably about 300 Saint Mary's students." 
After approving the co-sponsor­ship. executive secretary Annie Dav.is motioned to give a $500 donation from BOG that will go straight to Hiley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis, Ind., which the board passed. 
Hodges began her first execu­tive report by announcing the election of Cate Cetta to be the student trustee for the 2007-08 school vea1·. 
Cetta: a junior political seience and history double major, was the 
off-eampus eornmissioner for BOG -a position junior Val Pekofske will take over while Hodges and student body viee · president will appoint someone to fill the campus club commission­
er position. 
Hodges also announced that 
she wants all of BOG to actively 
participate in the meetings 
throughout the coming year. 
''I've heard rumors that people 
don't attend because they don't 
have to report." Hodges said. 
"We're here for the policy making 
of the collBge. We ean't pass poli­
eies, and yve ean't communicate 
about what's pertinent to the col­
lege if f'VPryone is not here." 
In other BOG news: 
+ 
Technology commissioner Erin Scott said Regina Hall and McCandless Hall will have wire­less by the beginning of the next sehool year. aecording to Chief Information Officer Keith Fowlkes. Due to complications installing wireless, LeMans Hall and Holv Cross Hall will not have wireless installed until after the other two dorms. 

+ 
The 2007 Madeleva Lecture will take piaee Thursday. This year's topic will be "The Subversive Power of Love: The Vision of Henriette Delillo M." presented by Boston College the­ology professor Shawn Copeland. 


Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 18, 2007 


Author calls Enron a 'hmnan tragedy' 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistam News Editor 
Although the collapse of the Enron Corporation seems like just a story about numbers, it is more about the people who manipulated the numbers, said Bethany McLean, a Fortune Magazine writer and the author of "The Smartest Guys in the Room: The Amazing Rise and Scandalous Fall of Enron." 
"Enron, to me, is really like a human tragedy," she said. 
McLean spoke Tuesday in the Jordan Auditorium of Mendoza College. Her March 2001 Fortune story· "Is Enron Overpriced?" was the first to question how Enron made its money. 
Her article was the "tipping point," she said, that lead to further investigations into the company. 
"It put in print what people were beginning to think but nobody wanted to say," she said. 
Enron's fall cannot be blamed on one person, she said, but rather it was the fault of a cast of characters that didn't ask tough questions. Enron's accounting firm Arthur Anderson, the Wall Street banks that provided the cash to Enron and the employees in the company all failed to provide a system of eheeks and balances to protect against a culture of greed, she said. 
During interviews for the article and later for her book, McLean said one of the most troubling things she encoun­tered were the responses to her question of who was to blame for the Enron collapse. 
"They all -to a person ­said it was someone else's fault," she said. 
For the business students in the audience, McLean said the lesson of Enron was that junior officers and employees can risk imprisonment if they are involved in unethical deals, even if a senior person told them to do it. 
Enron showed that -in some cases -the senior people escaped punishment and the junior people were made the scapegoats. 
"If something does end up going wrong, and your life is on the line, the fact that someone told you do to it isn't going to be any help whatsoever," she said. 
McLean told the story of her investigative reporting into Enron, a eompany that fell from selling stock at $85 a share in early 2001 to bank­ruptcy by the. end of the year after further investigation revealed mass corporate fraud. 
When she started looking into the company. McLean said. it was an "it stock"-nearly every stoek analyst was telling investors to irivest in Enron. 
On the surface, Enron was a great story, she said. It was transforming the way business was done. Fortune magazine ­the magazine she worked for­had even proclaimed it "America's Most Innovative Company" for six consecutive ahead with the story. 
Knowing how to interpret the numbers helped her to uncover the story and find the holes in the aeec.;unting.. she said. But in retrospect, she said she wishes she had been tougher on Enron in her first arliele. 
''I'm not sure I was perhaps as brave," she said. "Perhaps if I had been braver I would have seen more." 
ln the course of co-authoring a book about the Enron scan­dal, McLean said she was sur­prised that people in the com­pany hadn't seen more. 
Many people in the company knew the numbers didn't make sense, but no one said anything about it. 
"The great majority of people al: Enron had their heads 
down," McLean 
said. 
years. ''Ifsomething does The leaders of But something end up going wrong, Enron, like 
wasn't right Skilling. Fastow
and your life is on the
about the com­and · former pany, she said. line, the fact that chairman Ken It was hard to someone told you do Lav, were self­tell how it made nuide men, but
to it isn 't going
money. they had fatal 
"Under the to be any help flaws, McLean adoration of whatsoever." said. And these En ron, there flaws led to was something Enron's downfall.
Bethany Mclean
verv different," ThPy turned 
McLean said. author and journalist Enrori into a 
"There was a sense that there was something dangerous about the company." 
An investment banking ana­lyst at Goldman Sachs before she became a reporter, McLean said she wasn't afraid of num­bers-or doing heavy account­ing stories. And Enron 's accounting raised a lot of "obvious red flags." 
So McLean called Jeff Skilling -then Enron's CEO -to ask him whv the numbers didn't add up. Skilling became "extremely angry" during the call, she said, and called her unethical. 
He said she had not done her homework, and if she had, she would know the answers to her own questions. 
The next day, McLean met with three Enron executives, including Enron's Chief Financial Officer Andy Fastow, to ask them more questions about Em·on's finances. They dodged her questions, so her editors advised her to push 
company with a 
eulture of self-delusion where free, excessive spending was allowed, she said. 
McLean repeated a story told to her by a former Enron exec­utive. He told her he needed to use a corporate jet to go to a meeting, but when he tried to get one, he found that all three of them were in use by the Lay family. 
Skilling also contributed to that culture by using mark-to­market accounting to estimate future priees, and in doing so inflated the image of Enron's actual wealth. · 
But, McLean said, this was a culture of "reported profits, not a eulture of reality." 
"ThPy basically stole from the future until there was nothing left," she said. · 
The leeiure was sponsored by the O'Brien-Smith Leadership Program. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


Panel 
continued from page 1 
there are financial institu­tions looking to make money from microfinance," Belatti said. 
At Notre Dame, students in Belatti's micro-venturing elass, like senior Melissa FishP.r, are learning about the prineiples of microfi­nanee firsthand by creating development projects they hope will last beyond just one semester. 
"We're looking to help bring ND into the microfi­nance field," Fisher said. "In the class. there are teams working with local entrepre­neurs in South Bend as well as teams working in Guatemala and Africa." 
Fisher's team is focusing on Uganda, and has also met with Notre Dame's Millennium Development Goals director Father Robert Dowd to inform him about the benefits of mierofinanee. 
"We discovered that there's a women's bank in a village in Uganda that has 1,000 borrowers and $30,000 in capital,'' Fisher said. ''We'd like to conneet the ND eommunity to the Ugandan borrowers through the women's bank. Our idea is to buy shares in or loan capital to the bank." 
Other Notre Dame stu­dents like junior Joshua Kempf and senior Jack Caleutt became involved with microfinanee on their own. 
Kempf is an of'fieer of the Student International Business Council and has eo­founded and led soda! devel­opment programs in Ghana. 
Kempf credits his inspira­tion to the visit to Notre Dame by eeonomist Jeff Sachs, who said "markets have no plaee in the initial development of rural Africa." 
However, Kempf said mar­kets ean be Africa's "saving grace" if people are approached in the context of what he ealled a "trust econ­only." 
The concept of trust is important in rnierof1nance. Kempf said one organization that threatened borrowers with harm if they didn't pay experienced an 80 percent 
default, or non-payment, rate. 
Kempf's organization, which trusted borrowers to pay their loans on time, expel'ieneed a default rate of only 1.5 percent -lo.wer than the world average default rate of 5 pereent. he said. 
Kempf decided to start an organization that worked with a microtinanee institu­tion in Ghana to help resi­dents of a village better export their fruit products. 
"We're working with fruit drying [because] after drying fruit it lasts up to a year, so we can then sell the product for premium prices in places like Europe where [mangos, papayas. pineapples and bananas] are uncommon,'' Kempf said. 
Loans provided to potential business owners in Afriea mav seem to have harsh teni1s. as Kempf explained that the microfinance insti­tute he worked with 11'ad a 72 percent annual interest rate. 
However, Africans who need small amounts of money, sueh as $100, will "pay anything for it later on" and "aren't bothered by high interPst rates," Belatti said. But, he said, "Interest rates are coming down." 
Not all students have been able to practice microfinance as easily. Calcutt encoun­tered a. manager engaged in what he called "illegal" prac­tices in the microfinance institute he worked for in Uganda last summer. 
"The manager said he was having trouble paying for his education ... so he took another job illegally and was not <t leader at [the institu­tion]." he said. 
Caleutt also experienced diffieulties working in rural areas, sueh as a "laek of a justice system" and a lack of "infrastrueture to handle transaetions and communi­cations" between customers. 
While Caleutt said this showed him microfinance isn't .al~ays "universal~y ~u~­cesslul, he has an opturustJC view of the praetice, 
"There's hope as long as WP stay away from being attracted to microfinance as merely a buzzword,'' he said. 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 







ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, April 18, 2007 CoMP£LED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVlCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Japanese mayor killed by gang chief 
TOKYO-!echo Ito was born in Nagasaki just two weeks after a U.S. atomic bomb devas­tated the coastal city in the closing days of World War II. 
In the wake of such monumental destruction, he grew up to become a three-term mayor of Nagasaki. He was also an active figure in the movement against nuclear proliferation, head­ing a coalition of Japanese cities calling for the elimination of nuclear weapons. 
Ito, 61, was shot and killed outside a train sta­tion Tuesday evening. Police identified the attacker as Tetsuya Shinlo, an organized crime chief apparently enraged that the city refused to compensate him after his car was damaged at a public works construction site. 
The shooting was rare in a country where handguns are strictly banned and only five politicians are known to have been killed since World War II. 
It was the second attack in the last 20 years against a mayor of Nagasaki, whose leaders have actively campaigned against militarism. 
Sudan to let peacekeepers in Darfur 
NYAJA, Sudan -Sudan's surprise deci<>ion to allow 3,000 U.N. peacekeepers into Darfur was due to pressure from the U.S. and Khartoum's top ally, China. But questions remain whether Sudan will honor the deal and whether major countries will step forward with enough troops. 
The Sudanese government agreed Monday after five months of stalling to accept the deploy­ment of the peacekeepers, along with six U.N. attack helicoptPrs, to help 7,000 AJ'rican troops try to halt the violence in the desert region. 
It's a major step toward coping with a human­itarian crisis that has claimed more than 200,000 lives and forced 2.5 million people from their homes since 2003. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

New Jersey gov. injured in car crash 
TRENTON -The sport utility vehicle carrying Gov. Jon S. Corzine was traveling about 91 mph moments before it crashed, the superintendent of state police said Tuesday. 
The governor was critically injured when the vehicle crashed into a guardrail on the Garden State Parkway just north of Atlantic City last week. He apparently was not wearing his seat belt as he rode in the front passenger's seat. 
The speed limit along that stretch of the parkway is 65 mph. 

Rice broadens Palestinian contacts 
WASHINGTON -Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice met Tuesday with Palestinian Finance Minister Salam Fayyad, broadening her contacts with members of the new Palestinian unity government in which moder­ates have joined forces with Hamas militants. 
The predominant topic of the session at the State Department was economic distress in Palestinian-occupied areas. 
A senior U.S. official said Rice participated for about 30 minutes in a session Fayyad was holding with the State Department's top Mideast official, Assistant Secretary David Welch. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Army invests $100 million in site 
INDIANAPOUS -The 68 buildings that made up the former Muscatatuck State Development Center were once home to more than 2,000 peo­ple with mental disabilities -some autistic, some profoundly mentally retarded. 
The center closed in 2005, but its Jennings County campus has since enjoyed a bustling second life as an Indiana National Guard train­ing site. The site will soon be even busier thanks to a $100 million investment by the Army. 
The Muscatatuck Urban Training Center includes buildings, roads and nearly 1,000 acres the military wants to use to as an environment for soldiers preparing for urban warfare and disasters. 

Bush offers condolences at Va Tech 
President attends memorial service, says nation is praying for students, teachers 
Associated Press 
BLACKSBURG, Va. ­Representing America's anguish, President Bush told Virginia Tech students and teachers at a somber convocation Tuesday that the nation was praying for them and 'there's a power in these prayers." 
"It's impossible to make sense of such violence and suffering," Bush said at a memorial service on the campus where 33 people, including the suspected gunman, died in shootings the day before. 
"Those whose lives were taken did nothing to deserve their fate," the president said. "They were simply in the wrong place at the wrong time. Now they're gone -and they leave behind grieving fami­lies, and grieving class­mates, and a grieving nation." 
Before flying to the tragedy-stricken university in southwestern Virginia, Bush ordered flags flown at half staff and issued a writ­ten proclamation in honor of those killed and wound­ed. 
Speaking to a solemn crowd at a basketball arena, packed with students and others, many wearing orange short-sleeved Virginia Tech T-shirts, the president quoted a recent graduate blogging about the killings to encourage those who grieve to reach out for help. 
'To all of you who are OK, I'm happy for that," Bush said, quoting the Internet posting. "For those of you who are in pain or who have lost someone close to you, I'm sure you can call on any one of us and have help anytime you need it." 
The memorial service was subdued, but ended with a spontaneous school chant of "Let's Go Hokies!" the uni­versity mascot. The presi­dent met with a wounded student and 50 relatives of the victims, hugging them and telling them to take comfort from one another. 
Bush and his wife, Laura, also stopped briefly in the middle of campus where students have set up a memorial of candles and flowers. The president and first lady added their signa­tures to a display of the let­ters VT -a symbol of Vrrginia Tech. 


In times of tragedy, Americans often turn to the president to be the nation's consoler. One of the most memorable images of Bush is of him standing atop a pile of rubble in New York, bullhorn in hand, as he ral­lied the nation after the ter­rorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. 
In 1995, President Clinton went to Oklahoma City after the bombing of the federal building there, and his on­the-scene empathy was later viewed as the key fac­tor in reviving his presiden­cy and helping him win re­election. 
Bush urged those angered by the killings not to be overcome by evil. 
"People who have never met you are praying for you," Bush said. "They're praying for your friends who have fallen and who are injured. There's a power in these prayers, a real power. In times like this, we can fmd comfort in the grace and guidance of a loving God." 
Before the service, Bush received a briefing on the shootings and their investi­gation from Virginia Tech President Charles Steger. 
On a day of raw emotion, Bush spoke to students who he said had just lived through the worst day of their lives. 
"On this terrible day of mourning, it's hard to imag­ine a time will come when life at Virginia Tech will return to normal, but such a day will come," Bush said. "And when it does, you will always remember the friends and teachers who were lost yesterday." 

The tragedy fueled debate over gun control. White House spokeswoman Dana Perino deflected any ques­tions about Bush's view of needed changes to gun con­trol policy, saying the time for that discussion is not now. 
"We understand that there's going to be and there has been an ongoing national discussion, conver­sation and debate about gun control policy. Of course we are going to be partici­pants in that conversation," she said. "Today, however, is a day that is time to focus on the families, the school, the community." 
UNITED KINGDOM 


Nations criticize U.S. 'gun culture' 
Associated Press 

LONDON -The Virginia Tech shootings sparked criticism of U.S. gun control laws around the world Tuesday. Editorials lashed out at the availability of weapons, and the leader of Australia -one of America's closest allies -declared that America's gun culture was cost­ing lives. 
South Korea's Foreign Ministry said the government hoped Monday's shootings, allegedly carried out by a 23-year-old South Korean native, would not "stir up racial prejudice or confrontation." 
While some focused blame only on the gunman, world opinion over U.S. gun laws was almost unanimous: Access to weapons increases the probability of shootings. There was no sympathy for the view that more guns would have saved lives by enabling students to shoot the assailant. 
"We took action to limit the avail­ability of guns and we showed a national resolve that the gun culture that is such a negative in the United States would never become a negative in our country," said Australian Prime Minister John Howard, who staked his political career on promoting tough gun laws after a gunman went on one of the world's deadliest killing sprees 11 years ago. 
The tragedy in a Tasmanian tourist resort left 35 people dead. Afterward, Australia's gun laws were changed to prohibit automatic weapons and handguns and toughen licensing and storage restrictions. · 
Handguns are also banned in Britain -a prohibition that forces even the country's Olympic pistol shooting team from practicing on its own soil. In Sweden, civilians can acquire firearm permits only if they have a hunting license or are mem­bers of a shooting club and have no criminal record. In Italy, people must have a valid reason for wanting one. Firearms are forbidden for private Chinese citizens. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 18, 2007 
system in East Africa with independence in Africa." project say the challenge ference, showing African and money from the Ford "The talk will discuss before faced by the University today Africa-related films and pre­
Africa 

Foundation. The Congregation and after the independence of of the Holy Cross has been Ghana and analyze where present in Uganda and Ghana Ghana and Africa as a conti­since the 1950s, and later in nent stand 50 years later," he Kenya and Tanzania. said. 
In 2003-04, the University Odozor also highlighted the co-hosted a conference called presence of the Deputy "A Call to Ambassador 
continued from page 1 
gives people without a direct experience of Africa an overly negative image of the conti­nent." 
Adebola Giwa, a member of the African Student Association, said he believes "not only the campus but the entire country has a miscon­ception of Africa. They picture war, famine, genocide ... we want to show the good, posi­tive side of Africa with a won­derful culture, a different side as opposed to what is seen on the news." 
Changing the misconception 
Like Giwa, Dowd said it is important to realize there is more to Africa than its prob­lems. 
"While taking the problems that Africa faces seriously, because they are our prob­lems also, Africa Week pro­vides the Notre Dame commu­nity with a chance to appreci­ate the good news out of Africa and African achieve­ments," he said. 
In order to stimulate appre­ciation, the groups who put together Africa Week ­including the African Student Association, the Africa Working Group and the Africa Faith and Justice Network ­must first promote awareness. 
Africa Week is meant to highlight different issues per­tinent to the current social, political and faith situations in Africa, and ASA president sen­ior Tunde Disu said the differ­ent groups each tried to emphasize different aspects of Africa. The ASA wanted to cel­ebrate cultural heritage, and the AFJN wanted to draw attention to the genocide in Darfur and its effects on the African people, he said. 
"[ASA's goal] is to bring to 
light and celebrate the cul­ture, the history of Africa," Disu said. 
An international student originally from Nigeria, Disu became involved with the ASA because it allowed him to gain "a second family" while away from home. 
"It's a comfort to be sur­rounded by people with the same cultural background," he said. 
He said he hopes students participate in the week's events because they are a chance for people to get to know more about Africa. 
"Africa is a big continent, but its cultures are completely different ... when people think of Africa, they think of forests and animals, but the whole continent is not like that. I hope that we can get rid of that misconception," he said. 
The week can "give [stu­dents] a better world view and get them thinking with a more international perspective," Disu said. "By becoming aware of what's going on can make them appreciate what they have." 
Notre Dame, the CSC and Africa: A brief history 
Father Basil Moreau, the founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross, first sent priests and brothers to Algeria in 1840, a year before sending them to America and Canada. Since then, the University has maintained close ties to the continent. 
Father Paul Kollman said University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh helped to set up a university Solidarity With Africa: Americans and Africans in Dialogue About Africa's Promise, Needs, and Image." The conference was established after the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops issued a pastoral letter entitled "A Call to Solidarity with Africa," written in hope that Americans realize the African reality. 

Nigerian-born Father Paulinus Odozor, a Notre Dame priest and professor, played an integral part in coordinating the conference, which included American and African speakers in its two parts. The first segment was held at the University in September 2003, and the sec­ond in Nigeria in January 2004. 
The University sent 32 mem­bers of its community to Nigeria for the conference, Odozor said. These students and faculty members, includ­ing Odozor and Kollman, joined 19 others from across the nation to participate in the once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for dialogue. 
The September portion of the conference featured His Excellency Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, president of Nigeria, as the keynote speak­er. 
Last semester's Notre Dame 
of Ghana, "When people think of emphasizing pan­
Africa, they think of the 
Africanist
forests and 

vision put for­animals, but the whole ward by the 
first president
continent is not like 
of Ghana,
that. I hope that we 
K w a m e can get rid ofthat Nkrumah. "He wanted
misconception. " 
to have a united Africa,
Tunde Disu 

an idea that president was before 
African Student Association his time ... an 
Africa where 
everyone of African descent would have a home," Odozor said. 
Giwa said Africa Night is an opportunity to see the "other Africa" and how it affects U.S. culture. The night will feature drummers, storytellers, the First Class Steppers and Project Fresh, a breakdancing group that will perform to Nigerian hip-hop. 
"Most people don't realize that Africa has a developed, popular culture," Giwa said. 
Kollman and Odozor will present Theology on Tap: The Church in Africa tonight at 9. 
Graduate student Francis Isaidoo, an ASA vice presi­dent, said the proceeds from the week's T-shirt sales, which are available in LaFortune and the dining halls, will ben­efit a relief service program for HIV/AIDS. 
Africa and Notre Dame today 
Though events like Africa W·eek raise awareness and offer new views of the conti­nent, those involved with the is how to offer students more avenues for academic and service projects in Africa. 
Kollman said he hopes the week will help in "inspiring students to want to know more about Africa and go there." 
Professor Naunihal Singh has taught an African politics class for the past few years. When he first offered the class, there were 20 students enrolled, but the numbers have climbed in recent years, he said. 
"There is a demand among students for courses and serv­ice opportunities," Singh said. 
Singh, who has traveled to Africa many times, said he tries to incorporate his own personal experiences into his classes to make things as con­
crete as possi­ble for his stu­dents. 
"It is impor­tant when learning about a place that is very far away and very dif­ferent to try to ground that information as much as possi­ble," he said. 
His classes are not about "Africa as an abstraction, but about how 

"Africa Week provides Development the Notre Dame Initiative, Steele said she has
community with a 
"definitely

chance to appreciate noticed a 
the good news out of greater interest in Africa." 
Africa and African 
"Notre Dame

achievements." 
students can do a Jot of good in Father Bob Dowd Africa, but there's also so
director 
much that we

Notre Dame Millennium 
can learn," she Development Initiative said. "I really 
[the continent] really is," he said. 
Singh said he believes part of the increasing awareness among students comes from Africa's place in American pop culture, with movies like "Blood Diamond" and "The Last King of Scotland," and Madonna and Angelina Jolie's much publicized African adop­tions. 
"(The DeBartolo Performing Art Center] also makes a dif-

Forum, entitled "The Global Health Crisis: Forging Solutions, Effecting Change," once again directed campus focus to the problems in Africa. At the end of the forum, University President Father John Jenkins, who traveled to Uganda earlier this year, announced the University's involvement in the Millennium Villages Project through the creation of the Notre Dame Millennium Development Initiative, in hopes to combat poverty in sub-Saharan Africa. 
Graduate student Andrew Namanja, one of the ASA vice presidents and a native of Malawi, said, "With [Jenkins'] trip to Uganda, a spirit of Africa awareness has been [created] this academic year." 
Africa Week events 
The week's events so far have been very successfuL­according to ASA members. 
Giwa said the African Mass Sunday in Pangborn Hall was very full and that chairs had to be brought in from the hall­way to give everyone seats. Monday's fireside talk fea­tured storytelling, which Giwa said imparted "a deeper understanding of African cul­ture." 
Organizers and faculty mem­bers are placing the most emphasis on two events: Thursday's talk, "Ghana before and 50 years after independence," by Irene Addo, Deputy Ambassador of Ghana to the U.S., as well as Saturday's Africa Night. 
Namanja said Ghana "pio­neered the movement for 
Italians say that Life is beautiful. 

Find out why... 

Learn Italian this summer. 
senting African performers," he said. 
Singh also attributes a Catholic angle to this aware­ness, citing the 2003-04 "A Call to Solidarity With Africa" conference as a turning point in students' involvement and interest in Africa and the problems faced by the conti­nent. 
Nicole Steele, a senior who spent last summer in Uganda and a member of the AFJN, was involved in some of the planning of Tuesday's panel on microfinance in Africa. She has also helped coordinate the Gulu Walk to raise awareness about conflict in northern Uganda and a discussion panel on the genocide in Darfur. 
A member of the Student Advisory Council for the Notre 
D a m e 
Millennium 
believe that the 

more we are exposed to and interact with African culture, the fuller our own lives will be. 
"It's wonderful that so many organizations have come together to make this week happen," she said. "It's a great example of how different groups of people can unite in celebration of a beautiful con­tinent." 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
ROIT 10115 is a 6 week, 6 credit course meeting from June 19 until August 3-MTWRF 8:30-10:30/11:00-12:00 
It's like a double shot ofespresso in the morning! 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Wednesday, April 18, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

12,773.04 +52.58
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I ,582 133 1,676 2,921,766,171 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.27 +0.39 147.09 
POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.22 +0.10 45.16 
SLM CORPORATION (SLM) + 1.73 +0.95 56.00 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +1.54 +0.09 5.95 
INTEL CP (INTC) + 1.40 +0.29 20.98 
Treasuries 

I 0-YEAR NOTE -0.99 -0.047 4.688 13-WEEK BILL -0.10 -0.005 4.860 30-YEAR BOND -0.88 -0.043 4.847 5-YEAR NOTE -1.26 -0.059 4.606 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.51  63.10  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -2.00  692.50  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.03  I 03.1 5  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  118.665 0  
EURO  0.7361  
POUND  0.4979  
CANADIAN$  1.1291  

IN BRIEF 
Consumer costs lower, deflect inflation · 
WASHINGTON -Energy prices surged in March at the fastest pace since Hurricane Katrina, but other consumer costs eased, providing relief from worries that inflation was getting out of hand. 
The Consumer Price Index was up 0.6 per­cent last month, the biggest jump in 11 months, the Labor Department reported Tuesday. Prices had risen 0.4 percent in February. 
The March increase was driven by a 5. 9 percent spike in energy costs, the largest gain in this area since September 2005, when Katrina shut down Gulf Coast refiner­ies. 
Gasoline prices shot up 10.6 percent with another big increase expected in April given that pump prices have continued to rise. The nationwide average for regular hit $2.88, the Energy Department reported this week, up 71 cents over the past 11 weeks. 
Lenders asked to help borrowers 
WASHINGTON -Federal bank regulators called on lenders Tuesday to work with dis­tressed borrowers unable to meet payments on high-risk mortgages to help them keep their homes. 
The heads of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac said the mortgage finance giants are developing new types of loans to aid homeowners in avoiding default. 
Home-mortgage delinquencies and foreclo­sures have been surging in recent months, espe­cially for people who took out subprime mort­gages -higher-priced loans for people with tar­nished credit or low incomes who are considered greater risks. The distress has roiled financial markets and stoked anxiety that it could spill over into the broader economy. 
The Federal Reserve and the five other federal ageneies that regulate banks, thrifts and credit unions, in a joint statement, encouraged the financial institutions to extend flexible terms to struggling homeowners. 
"Prudent workout arrangements that are con­sistent with safe and sound lending practices are generally in the long-term best interest of both the financial institution and the borrower," the statement said. "Institutions will not face regula­tory penalties if they pursue reasonable workout arrangements with borrowers." 


AOL vies for advertising dollars 
Internet servi~e provider announces broad campaign to capture online revenue 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -AOL 
stepped up its bid to cap­
ture advertising dollars 
normally spent on televi­
sion by showcasing five 
new interactive programs 
a month before the broad­
east networks announce 
their fall lineups. 
The online company 
hosted more than 500 
advertising executives 
and media planners at a 
"First Look" showcase 
Tuesday -what Chief 
Executive Randy Falco 
described as a "coming 
out party for AOL" as a 
major online advertising 
platform. 
"What we're interested 
in is making sure when 
advertisers and agencies. 
are deciding what their 
budgets are for the com­
ing year, they understand 
there's an enormous shift 
going on," the former NBC 
executive told The 
Associated Press. 
The First Look event, at 
the corporate headquar­
ters of AOL LLC parent 
Time Warner Inc., comes 
as AOL seeks to increase 
its advertising revenue to 
make up ·for rapid 
declines in its legacy 
Internet access business. 
AOL announced ad-sup­
ported initiatives sehed­

uled to launch this fall or from Tuesday's event, but ers navigate the digital According to research 
early next year: a site the timing wasn't coinci­market, which is "very, by TNS Media 
where users can submit dental. very different from televi­Intelligence, spending on 
photos, video and stories "There's no hiding sion." online advertising exelud­
for use on "The Ellen that," Falco told the AP. "It's not only the digital ing keyword search ads 
DeGeneres Show" and "We're trying to get out advertising agencies who grew 17 percent to $9.8 
three games, including a there in front of the tradi­are now buying digital," billion last year. But that's 
second season of reality tional broadcast upfronts Millard said. only 6.5 percent of all 
TV master Mark Burnett's so we can remind people She said many tradition­advertising, and television 
"Gold Rush." A fifth pro­who control budgets just al advertisers contacted gets nearly seven times 
gram, a game based on how important online is Yahoo following the pre­more spending than the 
the upcoming "Shrek the becoming to their market­sentations to set up sales Internet. 
Third" movie, is to launch place." meetings, though she said While AOL was show­
April 26. Yahoo Inc. held similar she could not specify how easing new programs at 
The major networks events in February in New many or what resulted. the event, Faleo also saw 
typically announce their York and Los Angeles. David Hallerman, a sen­it as a chance to sell 
fall schedules in May as Television networks, ior analyst at the research advertisers on the AOL 
part of events called meanwhile, have been group eMarketer, said platform as a whole, 
"upfronts," so named pushing their digital plat­events such as AOL's including a new Web e­
.I 
I
because networks use forms along with their might help persuade mail interface in the 
l
them to pre-sell the bulk traditional broadcasts. advertisers to spend more works and new video-dis­
I
of their advertising for hit Wenda Harris Millard, online, but they alone tribution deals with Fox shows. Falco said he was­Yahoo's chief sales officer, won't be deal breakers. parent News Corp., n't expecting similar said the online showcases "It's a lot of chipping General Electric Co.'s NBC advanced sales resulting help traditional advertis-away still," he said. Universal and CBS Corp. 

Seattle paper to transition into tabloid 
Associated Press advertising at both papers in exchange compact design. But the P-1 has been 
for 60 percent of their joint profits, hindered by the feasibility of refitting 
SEATTLE -An agreement settling a could not switch the P-1 from its broad­the Times-owned presses and the con­
four-year legal dispute between The sheet format without Hearst's consent. cerns of prominent advertisers who 
Seattle Times and Hearst Corp. But it also says: "Hearst may, howev­prefer the larger, broadsheet style. 
includes a provision that would allow er, at its discretion choose to move the Language requiring The Times' reason­
Hearst's Seattle Post-Intelligeneer to P-I to a tabloid format. In such event, able cooperation could help overcome 
become a tabloid, according to terms Times and Hearst shall agree upon those hurdles. 
made public Tuesday. such production, marketing, circulation "It's something we talked about, but 
Both newspapers posted copies of and advertising accommodations and there's not been a firm decision to 
their amended joint operating agree­adjustments as shall be reasonably nec­make a conversion," said P-I Associate 
ment on their Web sites. The agree­essary or appropriate to effectuate the Publisher Ken Bunting. "There are 
ment was signed Sunday to avoid bind­P-I's change in format." some production issues and some sales 
ing, dosed-door arbitration over a legal The P-1 has been interested in switch­issues on which we would have to work dispute that threatened to dose the P-I. ing to a tab format for the last several with our customers and our partners. It 
Under the agreement, The Times, years, given evidence that such puts the decision in our court and which handles business functions changes can stave off circulation losses ensures there could not be a veto by including printing, circulation and and that readers like handling the more our partner in the JOA." 
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 18, 2007 

The purpose ofTBtN is to provide a supportive community fOr survivors ofsexual assault, to protest and raise awareness about violence in our community, and to promote a community ofhealing. 



ett g p. Vltl. 
euins at t lctRD, 'o 





toll db~~ 
CAMPIA.S MARC-t-t lid SP6AK DIA.T 

llilllll lllllid 11J Nhlh 



rcws, mnd cannrsmamnln 
Sorlnlao•IILmfln. 


Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention {http://osa.nd.edu/d.epartments/rape.shtml), Right to Life, Identity Project ofNotre Dame, Feminist Voice, Progressive Student Alliance, Men Against Violence, Board ofGovernance, Student Government, SOS ofMadison Center, and Gender Relations Center 


Mass 
continued from page 1 
anniversary Mass. 
The congregation was made up largely of students, although many members of the outside community were also present. Some students came straight from the library, carrying their back­packs. while many dressed nicely for the service. Following the Mass, many students visited the Grotto to pray and reflect on the mas­sacre. 
In his homily, McCormick emphasized the powerful emotions many Americans have felt in the past few days in response to the tragedy at Virginia Tech. 
"We have been over­whelmed with thoughts and emotions. [ ... ] We are shocked, we are fearful, and we are angered," he said. 
McCormick also underlined the similarities between the 
COR 
continued from page 1 
advertisement in The Observer, sending an e-mail out or whatever," she said. 
In addition to these ideas, members suggested that the student body observe a moment of silence sometime next week, either at a desig­nated location or just during first minute of class at a cer­tain time. 
In other COR news: 
+ Brown asked COR mem­bers for input on the faculty­student contemporary debate series that is in the works for next year. 
"It's tentatively loo~ing like Notre Dame and Virginia Tech communities. 
"We've heard the stories of students, staff and professors who died, and we realized that their goals and ambitions are not that different from our own," he said. 
Because of these similari­ties, McCormick said he believes the Notre Dame and Virginia Tech communities are "of one thought and mind." Like those at Virginia Tech's candlelight vigil Tuesday night, the members of the Notre Dame community worshiping at the Basilica and praying at the Grotto "gathered to pray for the lost souls and for peace in their hearts, and in our own," he said. 
The Mass was meant to rep­resent the concern for the 
spiritual  unity  of  all  
humankind.  
"When  one  part of  the  

human community suffers, we all suffer," McCormick said. McCormick said he believes members of the Notre Dame 
we're going to do about five or six of these debates," she said. "It's going to be a faculty and student team debating another faculty-student team about contemporary issues." 
As of now, there are no con­crete plans for selecting which students and faculty members will participate, but Brown said she has already received e-mails from inter­ested students and will likely field applications. 
The group debated the choice of topics for the debates, and Braun said the goal would be to "steer away from polarizing, highly­charged political issues." 
"The idea of immigration is a good one because there's not a right or wrong answer," she said. 
community can take ·strength in the Holy Spirit after Monday's tragedy, which was the largest mass shooting in 
U.S. history. 
"The Holy Spirit allows us to move from a state of fear to faith," McCormick said. "We may be fearful. but it is faith, not fear·, that trans­forms and heals our wounds." 
While Monday's events were undoubtedly tragic, McCormick stressed the abili­ty to overcome disaster and increase spiritual strength. 
"It is only for us now to find how even the Cross can be borne as a gift," he said to close his homily. 
The message of the Mass was not one of depression, but a more hopeful state of solidarity with fellow humans. 
"We must be a community with hope to bring. There is no failure that the Lord can­not reverse," McCormick said. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiemel@nd.edu 
Members suggested other topics that would diversify the debate content beyond politi­cal science, including evolu­tion and movie critiques. 
+ Junior Danny Smith was approved to be next -year's vice president of elections. 
"I am confident in his ideas and direction for the upcom­ing election season," Judicial Council president Ashley Weiss said. "I think he is the most qualified candidate for the position." 
Smith said one of his goals for next year's elections is to increase voter turnout. He suggested that voting booths be placed in high-traffic areas for greater exposure. 
Contact Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 

Arts and Letters Students Sophomores, .Juniors, and Seniors 


OlyiDpics 
continued from page 1 
Convention and Visitors Bureau, South Bend is wasting no time in forwarding ideas to Chicago's bid committee. 
"Right now, we're identifying the right people to help Chicago compete internationally to host the Olympics," he said. "So, over the next few days, our task will be to discuss appropriate roles we could play in helping Chicago's bid." 
Ayers said the two resources South Bend could provide to the Olympic Games would be training facilities for the athletes and tourist sites for the spectators. 
"Suppose that a team needs to find a last-minute venue to prac­tice for the competition," he said. "Our thoughts are that some of our venues can be utilized to help these athletes. By pointing these things out, we can show the city of Chicago that we can serve as responsible partners for them." 
Ayers said one site that would be potentially useful is for the canoe and kayak events in the East Race waterway just off downtown. East Race was the first artificial whitewater-rafting course built in North America. And since it is owned by the city of South Bend and managed by the Parks and Recreations Department, the U.S. Olympic Committee would be familiar with the site as a reliable venue. 
Notre Dame athletic director Kevin White also has a connection to the Chicago bid as a member of the Chicago 2016 steering com­mittee. But whether Notre Dame facilities could be used to help the bid is uncertain at this point. 
"The extent of [White's] involve­ment has been a couple of Chicago fundraising events," sen­ior associate athletic director John Heisler said in an e-mail Tuesday to The Observer. "There have not been any specific con­versations relative to the use of any Notre Dame facilities in con­junction with the games." 
Still, Ayers said he thinks the attractiveness of Notre Dame's renowned campus will help the Chicago bid, as far as tourism is concerned. This, in addition to the College Football Hall of Fame and the Studebaker National Museum, would draw spectators from Chicago who have extra time in between events. 
"It would certainly generate the local economy," he said, "and rally our community to serve peo­ple from around the globe." 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 
PHILIPPINES 

Peace Corps volunteer found dead in Manila 
Associated Press 
MANILA -Philippine authori­ties on Wednesday found a body they believe to be that of a missing American Peace Corps volunteer in a northern mountain town where she disappeared during a hike more than a week ago, an army general said. 
Maj. Gen. Rodrigo Maclang told The Associated Press that a body matching the description of Julia Campbell, 40, from Fairfax, Va., was found buried with one foot protruding from the ground near the village of Batad. It was not clear whether she had been buried by someone or if she was covered by debris during a fall. 
Maclang said it was too early to determine if foul play was involved. 
Regional police chief Raul Gonzales said U.S. Embassy offi­cials were on their way to the remote area to identifY the body. He said the body was fair-skinned and clad in clothes similar to those that Campbell wa..s last seen wear­ing. 
Campbell went missing April 8 in the area about 160 miles north of Manila. Police said earlier she may have fallen off a diff. 
Provincial police chief Senior Superintendent Pedro Ganir said by telephone on Tuesday that Campbell, wearing blue denim jeans, black shirt and a shawl, was last seen buying soda from a local store. 
Storage College Partners 
We Pick Up! We Store! We Deliver! www.storagecollege.com E-Mail us at ndinfo@storagecollege.com 
Simplified Summer Storage! 
Store Your Stun over the summer!  
Call or stop on by & reserve today!  
866-232-2769  
'JliurstfayJ 5fprii19J 2007  
6:00p.m.  
!l{am:tneS Stutfen.t f...ou119e-CoMo  
'Dinner UJi{[ be provitkt£  


page 10 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, April 18, 2007 
Experts analyze antidepressants 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Authors of a new comprehensive analysis of anti­depressants for children and teenagers say the benefits of treatment trump the small risk of increasing some patients' chances of having suicidal thoughts and behaviors. 
The risk they found is lower than the one the Food and Drug Administration identified in 2004, the year the agency warned the public about the drugs' risks in children. After the warning, U.S. youth sui­cides increased and some men­tal health experts said reluc­tance to try antidepressants might be to blame. 
The new analysis includes data from seven studies that were not part of the previous FDA analysis, including two large pediatric depression tri­als that were unavailable three years ago. 
Researchers analyzed data on 5,310 children and teenagers from 27 studies. They found that for every 100 kids treated with antidepressants, about one additional child experi­enced worsening suicidal feel­ings above what would have happened without drug treat­ment. In contrast, the FDA analysis found an added risk affecting about two in 100 patients. 
There were no suicides in any of the studies. The antidepres­sants included Prozac, Paxil, Zoloft, Celexa, Lexapro, Effexor, Serzone and Remeron. 
"The medications are safe 

and effective and should be considered as an important part of treatment," said study co-author Dr. David Brent of the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine. "The bene­fits seem favorable compared to the small risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior." 
Antidepressants worked best when used to treat anxiety, the analysis found. They worked moderately well treating obses­
cent improved on dummy pills. 
Effectiveness of the drugs was measured in the studies using widely accepted rating scales. The analysis appears in Wednesday's Journal of the American Medical Association. 
Dr. John March, chief of child and adolescent psychiatry at Duke University Medical Center, welcomed the study as "the most comprehensive analysis of the data yet put 

sive-compulsive "The medications are together." He said disorders. They the suicidal
safe and effective

worked less behavior risk,
and should be 

well, but were although lower still effective in considered as an than found by the treating FDA, demands
important part of

depression. that doctors and
treatment."

Adolescents families watchJor responded bet­warning signs. ter than chil­"You can't treat
David Brent 

dren to treat­kids with these
study co-author 

ment for depression and anxiety, the researchers found. They also found that only Prozac worked better than dummy pills in depressed chil­dren younger than 12. 
In the studies involving depression, 61 percent of patients improved while on antidepressants. But 50 per­cent of depressed patients tak­ing dummy pills also improved. 
Among young patients with obsessive-compulsive disor­ders, 52 percent improved on antidepressants, compared to 32 percent who improved on dummy pills. 
And in the studies of anxiety disorders, 69 percent improved on antidepressants and 39 per-
drugs without 
taking this infor­mation into account," said March, who was not involved in the study, but does similar research. "You can't say, 'Take these and call me in six weeks.' You have to monitor carefully the benefits and adverse events." 
The study didn't measure the effects of talk therapy, March pointed out. He said cognitive behavioral therapy used with antidepressants can lower sui­cide risk and speed up recovery for depressed youth. 
The study was supported by grants from the National Institute of Mental Health and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. 

Attorney general's aide m.ay receive im.m.unity 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Monica Goodling, once Attorney General Alberto Gonzales' White House liaison, would be granted immunity from prose­cution and forced to testify under a plan being considered by a House panel probing the firings of federal prosecutors. 
House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers said Tuesday that Goodling, who has refused to testify, has much to contribute to the investigation. 
"I am hopeful we can approve immunity so that we can schedule her to testify as soon as possible and begin to clear up the many inconsisten­cies and gaps surrounding this matter,~· said Conyers, D-Mich. 
"She's at the nexus of the relationship between the White House and the Justice Department," added Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y. 
The committee vote, sched­uled for Wednesday, is part of an effort by Democrats to find out why the Bush administra­tion dismissed eight of the nation's 93 federal prosecutors. 
Democrats question whether the administration singled out some of those fired in an effort to interfere with corruption cases in ways that might help Republicans. 
No evidence has surfaced to support allegations of wrongdo­ing, but Gonzales' shifting explanations have led to calls for his resignation and thrown his department into turmoil. His long-awaited testimony on the matter was postponed from Tuesday to Thursday this week because of the Virginia Tech murders. 
In the interim, Democrats have kept up the pressure. Conyers' committee announced this week that they want to talk to Mary Beth Buchanan, the 
U.S. attorney in Pittsburgh. 
Her name came up during a private interview by House and Senate investigators with Kyle Sampson, Gonzales' one-time chief of staff. Sampson told the investigators over the weekend that Buchanan was one of the senior Justice Department offi­cials he consulted on which U.S. attorneys should be asked to resign, according to a senior Democratic aide who has seen a transcript of the interview. The aide requested anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue. At the time, Buchanan was also serving as director of the office that oversees U.S. attorneys. 
Buchanan refused to com­ment. 
House Democrats focused Tuesday on Goodling's testimo­ny. Gonzales' former counsel and White House liaison quit over the furor and has invoked her Fifth Amendment right against self incrimination. She and her lawyer have said any testimony could amount to a perjury trap. 





day ofsileiice 
The Day of Silence is a national movement designed to bring attention to anti-LGBT harassment and discrimination in schools. 
Students both on our campus and nationwide have taken a day-long vow of silence to deliberately echo the silence faced by LGBT students and their allies every day. 
We believe that ending the silence is the first step toward fighting these injustices. Think about the voices you are not hearing today. 
What are you going to do to end the silence? 

Sponsored by The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 

UN!VERSrTY OF NOTRE DAME 
as part of the 2007 Stand Against Hate Week 
CORE CDUitCil 
roa"Y&UUJd 
STUDENTS

Co-Sponsored by Gender Relations Center· University Counseling Center· Student Government· Graduate Student Union Sociology Department· History Department· Jeyvish Club of Notre Dame· Feminist Voice· Progressive Student Alliance Other members of the Core Council's Coalition for Gay and Lesbian Students 
.--------------------------------­
Wednesday, April 18, 2007 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
School threats follovv VT 111assacre 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas -Campus threats forced lock-downs and evacuations at universities and grade schools in seven states on Tuesday, a day after a Virginia Tech student's shooting rampage killed 33 people. 
One threat in Louisiana directly mentioned the massacre in Vrrginia, while others were reports of suspicious activity in Texas, Oklahoma, Tennessee, North Dakota, South Dakota and Michigan. 
In Louisiana, parents picked up hundreds of students from Bogalusa's high school and middle school amid reports that a man had been arrested Tuesday morn­ing for threatening a mass killing in a note that alluded to the mur­ders at Vrrginia Tech. 
Schools Superintendent Jerry Payne said both schools were locked down and police arrested a 53-year-old man who allegedly made the threat in a note he gave to a student headed to the private Bowling Green School in Franklinton. Both towns are in southeastern Louisiana. 
"The note referred to what hap­pened at Virginia Tech," Payne said. "It said something like, 'If you think that was bad, then you haven't seen anything yet." 
In Rapid City, S.D., schools were locked down after receiving reports of a man with a gun in a parking lot at Central High. No shots were fired and no injuries were reported, police said. The high school students were taken to the nearby Rushmore Plaza Civic Center, where parents were allowed to pick up their children. 
In Austin, authorities evacuated buildings at St. Edward's University after a threatening note was found, a school official said. 
Police secured the campus perimeter and were searching the buildings, St. Edward's University spokeswoman Mischelle Amador said. She declined to say where the note was found and said its con­tents were "nonspecific." 
Amador said the university's reaction was not influenced by Monday's attack at Virginia Tech. 
"No matter what day or when this would have happened, we will always take the necessary precau­tions to protect our students, our faculty, our staff, the entire univer­sity community," she said. 
Seven North Dakota State University buildings were evacuat­ed after a duffel bag was found outside a bus shelter in the main part of the campus. NDSU spokesman Dave Wahlberg said the shootings in Virginia reinforced the need to "err on the side of safe­
ty." 
In Bloomfield Hills, Mich., police attributed a 30-rninute lock-down at the exclusive Cranbrook Schools complex in response to jittery nerves following the Vrrginia slay­ings. 
School officials called police after parents and students reported spotting a 6-foot-tall man in a skirt, high heels, lipstick and a blond wig near a school drop-off area outside Cranbrook's Kingswood Upper School, Lt. Paul Myszenski said. Police were unable to find anyone meeting the man's description. 
At the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga, officials ordered three campus administration buildings evacuated for almost two hours Tuesday morning in response to a telephone bomb threat. The city's bomb squad searched the buildings but found nothing, campus spokesman Chuck Cantrell said. 
Cantrell said there was no rea­son to believe the bogus threat was related to the shootings at Vrrginia Tech, but "we just chose to err on the side of caution today." 
The other, at the University of Oklahoma, had started with a report of a man spotted on campus carrying a suspicious object, offi­cials said. 
The man was carrying an umbrella, not a weapon, and he later identified himself to authori­ties, University of Oklahoma President David Boren said in a statement. Boren initially had said the person was believed to carry­ing a yoga mat. 


THURSDAY, April 19th 
12:00 pm, Montgomery Auditorium 
12:30 pm, Montogmery Auditorium 
4:00 pm, Montgomery Auditorium 

MONDAY, April23rd 12:00 pm, LaFortune Ballroom 12:30 pm, LaFortune Ballroom 4:00pm, LaFortune Ballroom 
EU condemns CIA anti-terrorism tactics 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Members of the European Parliament told 
U.S. lawmakers Tuesday that CIA tactics for spiriting away terrorism suspects are illegal. 
The parliamentarians' brief­ing for House members con­cerned CIA renditions, the prac­tice of grabbing terror suspects in one country and delivering them to another country for questioning. 
The briefing came the same day it was disclosed that CIA Director Michael Hayden had privately complained to European diplomats last month that a European Parliament report written by a member of the delegation had exaggerated the extent of the renditions. 
Hayden made a case that the renditions were an essential tool that had helped the United States and European countries fight international terror, according to a Western official familiar with his remarks. 
The European delegation, which includes members of a European Parliament civil liber­ties panel, briefed m\.)mbers of two House Foreign Affairs sub­committees Tuesday. The hear­ing on renditions was set up by Democrats, who have sought to exert greater oversight over intelligence activities since tak­ing control of Congress this year. 

Carlo Fava, the author of a panel report accusing Britain, Poland, Italy and other nations of colluding with the CIA to transport terror suspects to clandestine prisons in third countries, told the members of Congress that the Parliament considers rendition "an illegal instrument used by the United States in the fight against ter­rorism," according to testimony prepared for the hearing. 
As for Hayden's remarks last month, first described in The Washington Post on Tuesday, the CIA director said renditions carried out by the United States before and after the Sept. 11 attacks have all been conducted lawfully. 
Hayden said that the rendi­tions had taken place with the knowledge and many times assistance of the countries where the suspects were seized, according to the Western offi­cial, who requested anonymity because the remarks were made to a private audience. 
THURSDAY, April 26th 
12:00 pm, Montgomery Auditorium 
12:30 pm, Montogmery Auditorium 
Montgomery Auditorium is locatedin LaFortune across from S1arbucks 
Open Sunday, 
May 20th for 
Notre Dame 
Graduation! 
Proprietors 
WaiTer> & Lir.da

~occo's 
Restaurant 
::lirsl Or~ina/?1zza in 7oam! 
Since 1951 
Specializing in lt.11i;m Entrees 
Tues.· Thurs.: 5:00PM· 11:00 PM . Fri. -Sat.: 5:00 PM • 1 :00 AJ•A 
537 North St. Louis • S<lut'l Ber~d, IN 574-133-2464 



www.womenscarecenter.org 
On Campus Graduation Weekend Special Mayl9-23, 2007 
Come early, stay late, same price' Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents. Weekend donation is $100.00 per parent, Whether you stay Two, three, or four nights. Rooms are available Thursday through Sunday. For reservations call 574-631-7512 or 574-631-9436 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 12 Wednesday, April 18, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
More than just a game 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDIToR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR! Kyle Cassily 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR! Joey King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine ScENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAINT MARY's EDITOR! Katie Kohler PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewp<>int.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESk 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK smc.I @nd.edu PHOTO DESK 
(574) 6.31-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
. SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-88.39 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe. Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observe-r (USPS 599-2-4000} i): published Monday through Ftiday except during 
exam and vacation periods, Asubscription to The Observ:t~r is: $100 for one academic 
year; $55-for one .semest:er. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
m4-Sourh Dining Hall Send address correctiow to; 
Notre: Dame,1N 46556"0779 TheObservet 
p-eriodic::tl postage paid at Notte Dame P.O. Box779 
and ~dditional mailing offia:S. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notte Dam~ IN 46556...0779 
The Observer is a member ofthe-As:oiddated P.ress, All repmduc:ion r.ighrs arc 
• n:served. 
This weekend marks the 78th annual Blue-Gold Game weekend. An out­standing tradition that has grown from an alumni versus varsity team· game into a highly publicized spring scrim­mage, the 2007 Blue-Gold Game will surely not disap­point. But for many, this weekend entails so much more than a mere football scrimmage. So when you prepare to cheer on the Irish be sure to take note of other happenings on the field as well as throughout cam­pus. I've supplied you with a list of my top 10 favorites to help you out. 
10. The Return of Tailgating. For most of us, it's been almost five months since our last tailgating experience. I don't know about you, but I can hardly wait to break out the grill and bags set this weekend. The Joyce Center lot will once again be overwhelmed with Irish fans eating hotdogs and shotgunning beers. Similar to the Blue-Gold Game itself, this Saturday's tailgating gives us non-football players a chance to prac­tice for next fall's tailgating season. 
9. The Shirt Unveiling. The dress code for the 2007 football season will be introduced this Friday. With the suc­cess of the "Tradition" shirt last year, will navy once again be next fall's 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Katie Palmitier 
A Word to the Wzse 

t-shirt color, or will The Shirt Committee opt for a different color to add to our ever-increasing Irish wardrobe? 
8. The Fans. What other college foot­ball team can brag about tens of thou­sands of fans coming to watch a spring practice? Alumni, parents, family and friends will come from all corners of the country to watch their favorite team and take part in one of Notre Dame's greatest traditions. 
7. The Team. The Blue-Gold game allows for a unique opportunity for the. entire football team to display their tal­ents. Everyone from the SportsCenter­gracing all stars to the hardworking walk-ons will have a chance to strut their stuff in The Stadium. 
6. PigTostal. The biggest party of the year ... and the closest thing to Greek Life a Notre Dame student will ever see. Complete with 80 kegs, two pigs and one naked freshman swimmer, PigTostal is a spring tailgating tradition that is sure to please. 
5. The Four-Man Quarterback Race. With rumors rumbling about who will replace Brady Quinn, be the first to see who will take the field dressed in red. 
4. Bookstore Basketball. With the championship game 'only a week away, the largest outdoor five-on-five basket­ball tournament will be in full effect this weekend with teams fighting for the top spot. Will it be "I Can't Believe We're So Butter" and "Four Gentiles and a Jew" in the championship game? The answer is only a few games away. 
3. The New Leprechaun. After highly anticipated, public try-outs, The Leprechaun for the upcoming athletic year will be out on the field cheering on the Irish. Complete with red hair and a green suit, Matt Phipps will undoubtedly carry on the esteemed Leprechaun tradition with great suc­cess. 
2. Ara and Lou. College football coaching legends Ara Parseghian and Lou Holtz will be on the sidelines this Saturday alongside Charlie Weis coach­ing the Blue and Gold -a dream come true for diehard Irish fans. 
1. The Game. While many students will choose to chow down on pork rather than watch a scrimmage, the Blue-Gold game should not be missed. As a dress rehearsal for the upcoming football season, the Blue-Gold game gives spectators a chance to watch their favorite players as they give us a sneak peak of what's in store for next fall. And if you are anything like me, you are suffering from football with­drawal and cannot wait to get back in the stadium. So put on your new Shirt, tailgate with family and friends and be sure to support your two favorite teams as they battle it out in the Stadium this Saturday. 
Katie Palmitier is a sophomore political science major. She can be contacted at kpalmiti@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obsemer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL 

Amanda Michaels Chris Hine Emma Driscoll Michael Bryan 
Who will be the starting 

Viewpoint Becky Slinger Kara King Scene quarterback this fall?. Graphics TaeAndrews 
Jeff Albert Sean Sweany 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

ISubmit aLetter
•:# ''··' ......,...... •·• ..•. ' •• • •. •. ·······'· .. .....,....,
Ito the Editor at 
1i ~ www.ndsmcobserver.com
1 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'it little government and a little luck are necessary in life, but onl!l a fool trusts either of them. ' 
P.J. O'Rourke 
U.S. humorist 


I I I 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Wednesday, April 18, 2007 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Harsh criticism of Law School unmerited 
Lives lost to w-asted cause in Iraq 
Mary Daly asks "Where has the respect for human life gone?"("Lives lost in Iraq anything but wasted," April 17) in response to Will McAuliffe's assertion that the lives of all who have died in Iraq were wasted. The entire war is a waste -and not because we aren't honoring those who died, but because they are no longer alive. Every life taken in this war has been wast­ed, because without the war, they would still be alive. So Mary, if you're wondering where our respect for human life is, it lies in the fact that we wish these soldiers were still alive, and that we want no more of them to die. Declaring their lives as wasted is not an insult -it is a measure of how much we wish they hadn't been sent to die for a worthless war. 
We realize that striking a balance between honoring the lives of these sol­diers and criticizing those who sent them to die is difficult. The real tragedy and waste lies in that these soldiers, willing to die for the noblest of ideals, were sent to war that has such ignoble effects, including 
Submit a Letter to the Editor or Guest Column to 
Letters to the in length. include the Submissions must be in by 3 p.m. to be considered for publication the next day. 
the death of countless Iraqis, and the diver­sion of needed funds away from our own Gulf Coast. Beyond the waste of resources and countless deaths, the term "waste" also applies to the fact that our brave sol­diers, who serve their country for certain ideals and values, are sent by their govern­ment to risk their lives in a war that under­mines the very values which they uphold, and for which they decided to serve their country. 
We believe in liberty, equality and democ­racy. We also believe that none of these realities can be based on a foundation of violence and occupation. The war is suc­ceeding only in supplanting our ideals with a reality that is destroying those who fight for them-and this is the greatest waste. . 
Alli deJong Bradley Jenkins Liz Loo 
seniors 
off campus April17 

T-shirts raise awareness, limit funds 
I am writing in response to an IRISHLINK listserve e-mail that I received from the "Millennium Development Goals (MDG) Task Force" of the Center for Social Concerns and Student Government soliciting the purchase of a T-shirt in honor of Malaria Awareness Day, Wednesday April 25th. The 
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' Center for Disease Control informs us that 41 percent of the world's population live in areas where malaria is transmitted (e.g., parts of Africa, Asia, the Middle East, Central and South America, Hispaniola and Oceania). Each year 350-500 mil­lion cases of malaria occur world­wide, and over one million people die, most of them young children in sub-Saharan Africa. The impera­tive of reducing the catastrophic impact of this disease, which has been eradicated in this country since the 1950s, is unassailable. 
However, I would like to reflect on a campus culture that attempts with the best of intentions to advance a socially-conscious agen­da by reinforcing the unconscious behaviour of consumption. Insecticide-treated bed nets decreased the mortality of children aged 1-11 months in a trial in western Kenya in 1997-1999. How many more of these bed nets could be purchased for the $10 invest­ment if part of those funds were not being used to defray the cost of the purportedly "free T-shirt". 
Although I do not know directly where and under what labor condi­tions the Malaria Awareness Day T­shirts were produced, I do know that cotton accounts for 25 percent of the world's insecticides and eleven percent of global pesticide sales, making it the most toxic crop grown on the planet, a toxicity haz­ardous to more than just mosqui­toes. Certainly, I appreciate the implicit intent of the T-shirts to raise the campus awareness, but I question whether this is the best application. 
There have been many T-shirt campaigns on campus since my time here, many of which have been inspired by the orange "Gay? Fine by me!" success. The issue of campus acceptance of all sexual orientations is one relating directly to the campus community, and as such one that lends itself well to a T-shirt campaign. Issues such as malaria, which are about garner­ing resources for a charitable effort on another continent rather than publicly lauding the self for donating to an anti-malaria cause, are perhaps better served by alter­native forms of advertising, an admirable example of which were the alternative energy pinwheels on South Quad, or stickers such as "Be nice to me, I gave blood today". 
As a person who tries to not measure his social consciousness by the 75 T-shirts crowding a shelf in his closet, I invite a Catholic campus to meditate on the virtue of simplicity as well as the charitable spirit in this upcoming "Millennium Development Goals Awareness Week." 
Thomas Klepach graduate student biochemistry April!? 

Displaying the rhetorical skills that will make him a very successful litigator and betraying his claim that his legal education is a "joke," my classmate Jim Paulino crafted a very powerful, and very misleading, image of what attend­ing Notre Dame Law School is like ("Law students show discontent," April 17). In his zeal to denigrate the institu­tion which has so aptly prepared him for the future, he misunderstands the purpose of the curriculum at a national law school, mischaracterizes the partic­ular emphasis and mission of Notre Dame. and misrepresents the teaching abilities of the stellar faculty at our school. 
Paulino complains of the lack of "practicality" at the law school. Setting aside his self-contradiction on this point (he notes the practicality of our trial advocacy program, which is duplicated annually in countless law firms across the country to train other new lawyers), he seems to have missed the elementary fact that at nationally-respected law schools like Notre Dame, students come from and return to nearly every state in the Union to practice. It is impossible for a law school with such reach to present practical knowledge of black-letter law that will be of immediate use to the young attorney. Rather, Notre Dame, like all national or "elite" law schools, offers a general curriculum focused on broad rules of law, highlighting theoreti­cal underpinnings and policy tensions running throughout. Armed with a solid theoretical understanding.of various areas of the law, students then go on after graduation to learn the state-spe­cific law they need to pass the bar exam in their chosen state of practice. 
If Paulino wanted his three years of law school to be an extended exercise in practical education preparing him to apply written legal rules with only a minimum of actual engagement in thinking about or understanding them, he could have chosen any one of the nation's fine regional or local law schools, which traditionally teach the black-letter law of the state in which they sit, eschewing larger theoretical and policy discussions. I am sorry to hear Paulino regrets his choice; I am certain he is in the minority in doing so. 
Second, Paulino suggests the law school emphasizes its Catholic image at the expense of offering a quality legal education. As a non-Catholic, I find his suggestion laughable to the point of absurdity. He seems to regard the exis­tence of a course on canon law as an affront to his learning, even though he was entirely free to avoid this elective class. He also refers to Jurisprudence and Ethics II as "joke" classes that are a "waste" of his time and money. While these classes are required, they are nei­ther a waste nor a joke, except to the extent that students fail to take them seriously. Jurisprudence offers the opportunity to place our newly acquired legal knowledge in context as it relates to the outside world, and helps us to understand the nature of the profession we are about to enter and the intellectu­al foundation of the tools we have just been given. Ethics II provides a moment each week for reflections on real-world dilemmas that we will soon have to face in our careers -in fact, Ethics II may be the most "practical" course in the curriculum. 

While I do not disagree with calls for greater transparency and communica­tion from the law school administration, not one of us can claim ignorance as to the unapologetic manner in which Notre Dame Law School examinesthese ethi­cal, moral and philosophical questions even as it delivers a first rate legal edu­cation. To the extent Paulino considers such examination to be a "joke," I sub­mit that Paulino made a poor choice three years ago in choosing where to go to law school. 
Third, and most egregiously, Paulino extends his smearing of his soon-to-be alma mater by suggesting that "a lot" of the professors here "can't teach," and further suggesting that many professors are retained because they help the school's "Catholic image" despite having nothing to offer students. After having taken classes from some 23 faculty members, I have yet to meet the profes­sor that meets Paulino's fanciful depic­tion. Many of the best professors are Catholic; many are not. Some of the less adept professors are Catholic; some are not. There is simply no correlation between Catholicism and teaching abili­ty, as Paulino would have it. 
More to the point, the faculty is on balance one of the finest assemblages of teachers from which I have had the privilege to learn. Of all the areas to mention where the law school could use some improvement -and there many -faculty quality is not one of them. As the article noted elsewhere, Notre Dame has several professors who are rising stars in legal academia -former Supreme Court clerks who are widely popular among students and recognized as outstanding teachers. More senior faculty are nationally known as estab­lished leaders in their field. And if some of our most brilliant and eccentric facul­ty have difficulty making themselves understood to today's students, I think that reflects more on the unwillingness of today's students to put in the work to take advantage of resources at their dis­posal than it does on anyone's ability to teach. 
In sum, I wish it to be known that the school that Paulino describes is not the school I have attended the past three years. Notre Dame offered me, and I readily accepted, exactly the nationally­based, theoretical and foundational legal.education I expected to receive; additional focus and reflection on the questions of ethics, morals and justice that I was unlikely to get at most other law schools; and an array of brilliant, accomplished professors as eager to teach me their craft as I was to learn it from them. I agree with Paulino that there are certain problems of respon­siveness and communication within the law school that need to be addressed. There my agreement ends. 
Brian E. Foster third-year law student April17 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, April 18, 2007 
REVIEW BY RAM A GOTTUMUKKALA 
One of the defming moments in "Aquaman." While the second sea­the charmed life of Vincent Chase, son of "Entourage" remains the budding Hollywood superstar and show's best, Season Three thrives the fictional centerpiece of HBO's by stringing together the misadven­"Entourage," takes plaeo, appropri­tures of Vince's crew in smaller, ately, in a darkened movie theatre. two to three-episode ares. What it 
Seated incognito in the back row lacks in plot, this season makes up of a packed auditorium, Chase for in superb comedic situations (Adrian Grenier) nervously fidgets that never let Vince and the boys and wonders get too com­
ENTOURAGE
how his fans are taking in "Aquaman," the movie playing on screen. This is his first crack at a summer block­buster and with "Terminator" and "Titanic" mastermind James Cameron directing him, how could anything go wrong? Still, Chase's ever-loyal quartet of amigos ­half-brother Johnny "Drama" Chase (Kevin Dillon) and best friends Eric "E" Murphy (Kevin Connolly) and Turtle (Jerry Ferrara) -are quick to reassure him that the fans are eating it up. 
"Wait'll they get a load of this next part," Turtle says excitedly. 
And for the briefest of moments, we get a tantalizing glimpse of Vmce's Aquaman in action. Jostling past the frantic and unrtJly summer beach crowd on an ocean pier, he unbuttons his suit while racing to stop an incoming tidal wave. But at the last second, as he does a death­defYing leap off the edge of the pier, the theatre pr~jector breaks. 
An usher tries to quiet the grum­bles from the audience, blaming the malfunction on rolling black­outs caused by a sudden heat wave. It's a clever and painfully frustrating way to begin the third season of "Entourage," but an effective one nonetheless. 
Recently released on DVD, "Entourage: Season 3, Part 1" col­lects the first 12 episodes of the show's third season, which follows the rise of Vmce from indie darling to A-list star after the success of fortable with 
their comfort­
able lot in life. 
Early on, Vince falls prey to the Hollywood studio system. Unsatiated with the record-break­ing $116 million debut of "Aquaman," Warner Bros. tightens the ropes on their golden goose and tries to force Vince into a three-pic­ture deal, not unlike Tobey Maguire's real-life deal with Sony Picturos for the "Spider-Man" films. 
As show creator Doug Ellin reveals in one of the DVD commen­taries, much of the "Aquaman" sto­ryline draws its inspiration from Sony's lucrative "Spider-Man" trilo­gy, but with a lot more discord. All this makes for good drama, because one minute Vmce's crew is jubilant at surpassing Spidey's opening weekend gross, and the next it's stuck with the ugly reality of the Hollywood machine. 
Never lost in the shuftle is Vmce's alpha-shark of an agent, Ari Gold. Played to passive-aggressive per­fection by Jeremy Piven, Ari seems to always find a way to steal the show from his celebrity client. It's a role that won Piven the 2006 Emmy for Best Supporting Actor, and Season Three bottles up and shakes Piven's manic charisma for some of the show's most explosive comedy. More often than not, these scenes involve Ari slandering Uoyd (Rex Lee), his wise, cheerful and gay assistant, the Yang to Ari's Ym. Together, they share some of the best chemistry on "Entourage," a 
show that continues to thrive on 
the strength of its performers. 
HBO's choice to release the third 
season on DVD in two parts reeks 
of a money-grubbing ploy. It's a tac­
tic they used to split up the sixth 
and final season of "The Sopranos." 
And while it's nice to be able to 
catch up with the Chase crew 
before HBO airs the second half of 
the season, it shamefully doubles 
the cost of each episode. 
Fortunately, HBO is a little more generous with the special features here than in the paltry excuse for "bonus material" from the second season set. Aside from a breezy promotional piece for the Vegas episode, Ellin, Ferrara and Dillon sat down to record lively commen­tary tracks for easily the three strongest episodes of the season: "One Day in the Valley," "Vegas, Baby, Vegas!" and "Sorry, Ari." 
All three tracks are informative 
and continually engaging and you 
get a sense of how laid back the 
atmosphere on set must be. This 
DVD set also marks the first time 
that the show is available in 
widescreen, which suits its cine­
matic locales. 
Sadly, the "Aquaman" footage that "Entourage" teases us with to begin the third season isn't real. But the quartet's genuine desire for Vince's fans to love the movie is. Like the very best segments in 
.HBO's ever-entertaining dramedy, it's one more example of the "Entourage" writers poking fun at the inanity of Hollywood while never straying too far from these four middle-aged boys from Queens. Together, they steer through the choppy waters of the business in search of every actor's fleeting dream: a glamorous fairy tale ending. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of hbo.com 
Vincent Chase {Adrian Grenier, left) and Eric {Kevin Connelly) Turtle {Jerry Ferrara, left) and D have been best friends since their childhood in Queens, NY. see eye to eye, but the pair rem 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, April 18, 2007 
page 15 
I sclit&iiiRn I 
What makes "Entourage" so awesome? Although il<> storylines are nowhere near as serious and detailed as the longstanding arcs of "The Sopranos" (IIBO's flagship series), "Entourage" actually does have overarching plots and a sequential structure, unlike sitcoms and other single episode-focused comedies such as "The Ollice." llowever, the real fun of "Entourage" lies in watching Vince and Company roll around Hollywood in shiny expensive cars, work out multi­million dollar film deals and cre­ate comedy along the way. 
"Entourage" is sort of the male equivalent to college girls read­ing magazines such as "People" and "Cosmopolitan." It's a total indulgence in the glitter and glamour of Hollywood celebrity pop cultun~. Except that unlike the tabloid trash of grocery store newsstands, the show is awe­some. "Entourage" is art imitating life creating art­a comedy about a fictional movie star and his pals, set in real-world Hollywood. 
And what makes it all work is the characters. The movie star of "Entourage" is Vincent Chase (played by Adrian Grenier), who never goes anywhere with­out his posse: Eric (Kevin Connolly), Drama (Kevin Dillon) and Turtle {Jerry Ferrara). As a tight-knit quad of boyhood friends from Queens, the main group dynamic is Vmce and Eric's status as best friends, which gets complicated when they go into business together as E (his nickname) becomes Vince's manager. 
Over time, E proves himself a capable businessman in his duties as Vince's manager. Vince himself is a paradox -everyone wants his life but no one really wants to be him. He makes up for his narcisstic and sometimes annoying tendenCies, by paying his friends off periodically with new rides and sweet digs. 
And he's definitely not everyone's favorite charac­ter: that title belongs to Ari Gold, played by Jeremy Piven. the paranoid, workaholic agent who spends his time alternating between cajoling Vmce into new movie projects, living vicariously through the group and blasting Lloyd (Rex Lee), his oft-abused assistant. 
Vince's older brother Johnny Drama is a has-been 

Tae Andrews 
Scene Editor 
hack, but he manages to get the odd job around Hollywood based solely off his proximity and shared family name with Vince. For his part, Turtle ... well, Turtle's just along for the ride on Vince's coattails. The latter pair is a bit of an odd couple; no one really takes them seriously but they're accepted as part of Vmce by extension -as Shauna (Debi Mazar) would say, he "comes as a package deal." 
And it's a pretty sweet one at that. In an episode of Season Two, Shauna, Vince's press manager, calls Vince's posse "The Lost Boys," which sums up the whole package: four best friends who refuse to grow up, have never put in an honest day's work in their lives and have no plans on doing so. 
Whether it's house-shopping for llollywood man­sions, wining and dining at Southern California's finest restaurants or chasing skirts around town, the men of "Entourage" spend their nights holding glass­es of champagne and their days sleeping, lazing around and trying to find ways to entertain them­selves. Which, given their ridiculous amounts offme time and cash, is a recipe for both trouble and hilari­ous moments. In other words, the meaningless pur­suits that young men spend their time on. 
Part of "Entourage's" appeal to college guys is that everyone has a group of friends that more or less resembles the show's characters. Everyone has a friend like Vince, a pretty boy who spends quality . time, leave-in conditioner and hair gel making sure his hair looks just right before going out. 
Likewise, every guy wishes that E was his best friend-a loyal and protective bud who's got his back. Everyone knows someone like Johnny Drama with an over-inflated ego and delusions of grandeur. And everyone also has a friend like Turtle, who's · short, irresistible to pick on and exisl'i mainly for group comedic relief. 
Basically, "Entourage" is a combination of any time you've sat around your dorm room with your buddies and thought, "If I had a million dollars ... " or "Wouldn't it be awesome if ... " rolled together and cut into half-hour segments. From Vmce and his posse trucking around town in an H2 Hummer to hitting up Las Vegas en masse, "Entourage" is a show about liv­ing the life. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of hbo.com 

· Ari {Jeremy Piven, right) spends his time brokering deals for ins hilarious on "Entourage." movie stars and heaping abuse on assistant Lloyd {Rex Lee). 
~----­
I 
1 
THE OBSERVER
I 
CENE
page 16 Wednesday, April 18, 2007 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Disney's 'Robinsons' soaring to screen success 
By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Editor 
"Meet the Robinsons," Walt Disney Animation's final pre-Pixar purchase and computer-generated cartoon closes with a nod to the past, attributing the central motto of the film -"keep moving for­ward" -to Walt Disney himself. It's a nice, nostalgic touch marking the studio's new era under John Lasseter, the former head of Pixar, and an apt description of the plot. Despite a relatively simple story­line about an orphan in search of a fami­ly, the rather complex machinations keep pushing the narrative ahead so as to not allow too much time to dwell on the how or why. 
The film is loosely based on the picture book "A Day with Wilbur Robinson" by William Joyce and directed by first-timer Stephen J. Anderson. While "Meet the 

CD REVIEW 
Robinsons" doesn't quite reach the high­standard of excellence established by such Pixar classics as "Toy Story" or "The Incredibles," it still offers a great deal of heart and is an overall enjoyable film. 
The protagonist of the film is a young boy named Lewis (Jordan Fry), a braini­ac orphan and an attempted inventor. Abandoned by his mother as a baby, Lewis was raised under the care of Mildred (Angela Bassett) at an orphan­age. His disastrously malfunctioning inventions, like the Peanut Better and Jelly Making Machine, hinder his attempts to be adopted by a loving family. As a result he invents the Memory Scanner, which he hopes will help him discover the whereabouts of his birth mother. When Lewis reveals his inven­tion, however, it is stolen by a villain from the future, known only as the "Bowler Hat Guy" (voiced by director Anderson). 
Enter Wilbur Robinson (Wesley Singerman) who whisks Lewis into his time travel machine to retrieve the Memory Scanner from Bowler Hat Guy before he uses it to change to future according to his evil plans. Catapulted from his room at the orphanage into the bright retro-futuristic design marvel of "Todayland" (playing off of Disney World's Tomorrowland) Lewis is ecstatic; the world of tomorrow has everything that he has ever dreamed of, including a potential family in the eccentric Robinson clan. But unless he can stop the Bowler Hat Guy, everything that Lewis loves about the future may disappear ­including the Robinsons and their free­wheeling household of singing frogs, worrywart robot Carl (Harland Williams) and a giant octopus butler. 


The mania only increases in the third act, when the filmmakers must somehow wrap the story up while addressing the consequences of the characters' time­traveling antics. It's difficult to elaborate without giving too much away, but the developments stretch the bounds of believability, even for a cartoon. Particularly upsetting is the fate of Lewis' baseball-loving roommate Goob, among the most endearing of animated charac­ters, whose dark under-eye circles are presumably caused by sleep deprivation -but also suggest such other potential orphanhood troubles. 
Co-starring the voices of Tom Selleck, Laurie Metcalf and Mad TV alum Nicole Sullivan, "Meet the Robinsons" zips mer­rily along, never overstaying its welcome. Per the family film narrative template, Lewis must learn some important life les­sons over the course of his fantastic adventure, but the filmmakers thankfully hold the sappy homilies in check. It's engaging rather than cloying, with more than enough plot twists, gags and one­liners to entertain all audience members. 
In the end, only the most jaded viewers won't enjoy leaping into the dazzling and ingeniously rendered future of "Meet the Robinsons." 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
Malin's album takes him from 'Gutter' to 'Glitter' 
By JAMES COSTA Staff Writer 
Even after the demise of famed New York City rock club CBGB last October, the spirit of that independent New York sound that emanated from the Village and beyond in the heady days of the late 80s and early 90s lives on in the music of sem­inal singer-songwriter Jesse Malin. Malin, who recently released "Glitter in the Gutter" on Green Day front man Billie Joe Armstrong's Adeline Records, has con­structed an album that has garnered sig­nificant notice fo_r its roll call of big name appearances, as well as its strong and refreshingly new rock and roll sound. 
Malin, closing in on 40, still manages to capture the irreverency of his insouciant youth in Queens, where his childh()od was not unlike the characters in Dito Mortiel's recent film "A Guide to Recognizing Your Saints." The album picks up momentum right from the first moment with the song "Don't Let Them Take You Down." A chugging track, it speaks to the near-mid­dle aged hipsters of Malin's rock circle and the creation of a new lost generation of musicians converging in lower Manhattan to find some inspiration and direction as their lives and music change with the times. 
One of the most surprising appearances on the record is Bruce Springsteen on the ballad "Broken Radio." A touching tribute to Malin's mother, the song breaks away from most of the record's hard rocking tracks and delivers a soft piano remem­brance of a world now gone though still alive in Malin's memories. Providing per­fect balance to Malin's youthful voice, Springsteen supplies a gorgeously rugged and aged perspective to the song. 
Malin brings Ryan Adams, his close friend and often collaborator, to provide guitars and backing vocals on four tracks. The two famously -in the underground New York scene -formed and produced two punk EPs under the name The Finger 
and released a CD compila­tion titled "We Are F**K You." This collaboration is evident in "Glitter" in the Gutter on such tracks as "Little Star." 
Embodying the main theme of the album, Malin and Adams paint. a world of misunderstood ideals and hopes for deliverance and happiness in the years to come. While lyrics such as "Misunderstood I like Robin Hood I and Peter Pan I redemption" can be trite, it is undeniable that Malin and Adams share a common vision. Especially since music fans are so used to hearing Adams in his own prolific releases, it is refreshing to hear him provide often brilliant moments in a backup role to Malin. The two hit their best with the track "Aftermath," a tune that Malin wrote after seeing Yoko Ono on a street in New York City. Malin and Adams sing of a changing world, "And the radio went silent I And all our heroes had died I Now you can buy revo­lution I In any color or size." 

With the additions of Adams and Springsteen, as well as Jakob Dylan, it would be easy for Malin to lose sight of his own vision for the record. However, he maintains a firm control over the direction of the disc. The influences of his earlier bands and projects such as D Generation are obvious. Malin assaults the listener with a dazzling attack of serrated guitars mixed with massive choruses reminiscent of classic acts like New Jersey band Bon Jovi. 


While some songs are weaker than oth­ers, his brilliantly crafted adrenaline shots, such as "Prisoners of Paradise," offer the listener plenty to think about. It is a solid rock and roll album in a time when those are increasingly hard to come by, and certainly worth a listen. 
Contact James Costa at jcostal@nd.edu 
Wednesday, April 18, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

BR WNING 
CINEMA 
Soul Searching (2006) Directed by Michael Eaton and Timothy Eaton NR, 60 minutes Video Presentation Wed, Apr 1 8 at 7 pm 
Walking on the Wild Side (2006) Director HAN JIE will be present for discussion ON THE EDGE: NEW INDEPEN­DENT CINEMA FROM CHINA Directed by Han Jie NR, 89 minutes Mandarin language with English subtitles Thu, Apr 19 at 5 pm 
Unknown Pleasures (2002) ON THE EDGE: NEW INDEPEN­DENT CINEMA FROM CHINA Directed by Jia Zhangke NR, 113 minutes Mandarin and English language with English subtitles 35mm print Thu, Apr 19 at 8:30 pm 
The Silent Holy Stones (2005) Director WANMA CAIDAN will be present for discussion ON THE EDGE: NEW INDEPEN­DENT CINEMA FROM CHINA Directed by Wanma Caidan NR, 102 minutes Tibetan language with English subtitles 35mm Print Fri, Apr 20 at 7 pm 
The Orphan of Anyang (2001) Director WANG CHAO will be present for discussion ON THE EDGE: NEW INDEPEN­DENT CINEMA FROM CHINA Directed by Wang Chao NR, 84 minutes Mandarin language with English subtitles 35mm print Fr.i, Apr 20 at 1 0 pm 
Blind Shaft (2003) Director Ll YANG will be present for discussion ON THE EDGE: NEW INDEPEN­DENT Cl N EMA FROM CHINA Directed by Li Yang NR, 92 minutes Mandarin language with English subtitles 35mm Print Sat, Apr 21 at 2 pm 
Children of Paradise (1945) PAC Clas~ic 100 Directed by Marcel Carne PG, 1_63 minutes 35mm print Sun, Apr 22 at 4 pm 
FILM LINE: 631-FILM 
' 

Watch The Final Cut 
An original movie review show, Wednesday , nights at 11 pm on N Dtv Channel 53 
THU. APR. 19 AT 7 PM PHILBIN STUDIO THEATRE 
FEATURED GUESTS 
VICTOR HERNANDEZ CRUZ, POET DONALD W. SAVOIE, MUSICIAN 
CO·SPONORED BY 
THE BOEHNEN FUND FOR EXCELLENCE IN THE ARTS POETRY I MUSIC I. COFFEE ICONVERSATION 
MAGNIFICAT 
MAGNIFICAT IS AN ENSEMBLE OF VOICES~AND INSTRUMENTS SPECIALIZING IN MUSIC OF THE EARLY BAROQUE ERA. 
FRI, APR 20 AT 8 PM 
LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL 
TICKETS: $25, $20 FACULTY/STAFF/SENIORS, AND $10 ALL STUDENTS 
page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, April 18, 2007 
MLB 
Blum's clutch hit leads Padres over Cubs in 14 
Pirates defeat struggling Cardinals behind combined four-hitter; Red Sox fall to Blue Jays despite strong Dice-K start 
Associated Press der. stopped them in the 1Oth and He allowed a three-run homer 12th. 
CHICAGO -Geoff Blum to Marcus Giles in Monday's 12-With runners on first and sec­stepped to the plate in the 14th 4 win, and he walked in two ond in the lOth, Brian Giles sin­inning and delivered another runs in a 6-5 loss to Cincinnati gled to center off Bob Howry. big hit. last week. Felix Pie -making his major 
This time, the stakes were a "It's the law of averages," league debut for the Cubs ­little lower. It was a regular­Ohman said. "Two, three bad charged in and his threw a season game -not the World ones in a row -it'll even out." strike on the fly to catcher Series. And the winning shot He said Blum hit a "great Michael Barrett, beating Russell stayed in the ballpark. pitch" -a slider down and Branyan by a couple feet. Mike 
Blum doubled in the go-ahead away. Not that it lessened Cameron ended the threat by run to lead the San Diego Ohman's frustration. grounding out. Padres over the Chicago Cubs "Would you get frustrated if And with a runner on second 4-3 in 14 innings Tuesday. you lost? It's frustrating," he in the 12th, second baseman 
"I knew I wasn't going to said. Mark DeRosa dove to his right repeat the World Series thing, Blum's hit made a winner of to snag Marcus Giles' liner for not with that wind like that," he Doug Brocail (1-0), who struck the final out. said. out four and allowed one hit in Greg Maddux allowed three 
That "World Series thing" two scoreless innings. Trevor runs and six hits in five innings happened in 2005, when Blum Hoffman pitched the 14th for in his first start against the hit the go-ahead solo homer in his third save in as many Cubs since they traded him to the 14th inning of Game 3 for chances. the Los Angeles Dodgers at the the Chicago White Sox. Chicago's Daryle Ward hit a deadline last July. He walked 
"Luckily, I just found a hole," bloop double to center with one one, did not strike out a batter, he said. "Right place at the out in the bottom of the 14th, but was unable to protect a 3-1 right time. You wait that long but Hoffman got Jones on a fly­lead. and good things happen." out and struck out Ronny the minimum through four Dice-K struck out 10 over six 
Khalil Greene led off the 14th Cedeno. Pirates 6, Cardinals 1 innings, benefiting from a pair innings but forced in the go­with a double to the right-field "This team has shown a great The Cardinals look a lot more of double plays, and had a 12-ahead run with a bases-loaded corner against Will Ohman (0-deal of resiliency so far, early in like September duds than World inning scoreless streak before walk to Gregg Zaun in the fourth, 1), and with one out, Blum sent the year, an ability to hang in Series champions. the Cardinals scored in the fifth and Toronto beat the Boston Red a shot to left that Jacque Jones there," Padres manager Bud Tom Gorzelanny and Matt on a pair of hits ahd Gary Sox 2-1 Tuesday night despite let skip by him. Black said. "The pitching keeps Capps combined on a four-hitter Bennett's sacrifice fly. getting just three hits. 
Ohman then retired Rob us close and we get some hit­and Adam LaRoche hit a three­"Everyone expects to do well, Matsuzaka (1-2) retired his Bowen on a fly to center. and ting at the end of the game." run homer in a victory over St. and that's what I expect," said first eight batters and Wily Mo pinch-hitter Jake Peavy on a San Diego loaded the bases in Louis on Tuesday that gave the Gorzelanny, the Pirates' minor Pena's third-inning homer gave pop to second. But it was anoth­the ninth but failed to score, Pittsburgh Pirates a two-game league pitcher of the year last him a lead, but Lyle Overbay's er rough outing for the left-han-and two big defensive plays sweep. season. "It's exciting that I have single tied the score in the two­
"They're the big dogs in our gotten off to this kind of start." run fourth. division, and it's good to get out After So Taguchi doubled with Jason Frasor, taking over as there and shut them down," one out in the ninth and Pujols closer while B.J. Ryan is side­Gorzelanny said. "If we can walked, Capps came in and lined by a sprained elbow, got keep doing that, you're going to struck out Scott Holen and four outs for his first save since be seeing a lot of good things Preston Wilson. Sept. 20, 2005, against Seattle. out of us." In· his first game at Busch He retired David Ortiz on a 
The Cardinals' 6-7 start is the Stadium since striking out the groundout to end the eighth with worst by a World Series winner Tigers' Brandon Inge for the a runner on, then pitched a 1-2-3 since the 1998 Florida Marlins last out of the World Series, ninth. Manny Ramirez lined out, were 1-11. St. Louis completed Adam Wainwright (1-1) gave up and Kevin Youkilis and Mike a 1-3 homestand. scoring 10 five runs -four earned -and Lowell grounded out. runs in a victory over eight hits in six innings. He has Matsuzaka allowed just three Milwaukee and totaling five allowed 11 earned runs in 17 2-hits and three walks in six runs in the losses. After going 3 innings against the Pirates, a innings as his ERA rose from 49-31 last season, the NL's sec­5.60 EHA. 2.57 to 2.70. He struck out 10 for ond-best home record, the "I threw a lot of pitches over the second time in three starts ­Cardinals are 1-6 at Busch the plate, just bad, bad pitch­the previous pitcher to reach Stadium. es," Wainwright said. ''I'm real­double-digit strikeouts twice in 
''I'm glad we're going away ly getting· tired of telling all the his first three major league starts then, so we can play better," media folks that it wasn't good was the Los Angeles Dodgers' said Albert Pujols, who was 0-because I feel like I've been Fernando Valenzuela in 1981. for-7 with two walks in the doing that a lot lately. So Gustavo Chacin (2-0) allowed series and is batting .160. "I've results-wise, it finally caught up one run and six hits in 6 2-3 seen what this team can do." to me." innings, and Casey Janssen got 
Gorzelanny (2-0) fell just three outs before Frasor came in. short of his first complete game Blue Jays 2, Red Sox 1 Matsuzaka's Toronto debut, in 15 major league starts, Daisuke Matsuzaka's lack of combined with a $2 Canadian allowing one run and four hits control in a key situation cost ticket promotion, helped draw a in 8 1-3 innings with two strike­him against the Toronto Blue crowd of 42,162, Toronto's outs and three walks. He faced Jays. biggest since opening day. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at tbe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves tbe right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Very large home for rent for next Walk to campus!! Jamison residen­If you or someone you care about school year. 1 block east of campus. tial 3 BDRM 2 BA Luxury Condo has been sexually assaulted, visit Walk to class/food/shops. 4 huge Across B-Ball Stadium from cam­http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape
WANTED FoR RENT PERSONAL 
bedrms/3 full baths/large kitchen-lam pus. Sleeps up to 4 students. to learn about resources at ND and 
rm & laundry rm. 3 decks overlook Excellent rental for 2 grad students in South Bend. SUMMER WORK -$15.50 base­andersonNDrentals.com huge fenced yard. Very private & safe! or for privacy. Convert 3rd bedroom UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do appt. flexible schedules, no Must see! 239-707-2025. to study. CAB,NET,GAS,ELEC, not go it alone. If you or someone Professional couple to house sit for exp.needed,customer sales/service, BETTER HOMES,BETTER INCLUDED. $1600 per month you love needs confidential support summer. Saving to buy home. conditions apply,all ages 17+, posi­AREAS,BETTER DEALS. 2 bdrm home close to ND. Avail beginning 6/1. CALL MARK @ 310-or assistance, please call Sr. Sue ND references. tion:s throughout the US, apply now, BlueGoldRentals.com Now. $650/mo + utilities. Call 940-9444. Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more Dave 574-204-2877 aft 6p start after finals, Peggy 269-687-3096. information, visit our web site at www. workforstudents.com 3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for 5 Bedroom House; 1 05 Marquette http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­If a kid asks where rain comes 
07/08 school year. On line see rent­New 3 BR,3.5 bath twnhse, close to Ave; Great Neighborhood,close to nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad from, I think a cute thing to tell him Sitter for 11-year-old girl in Granger nd.com or mmmrentals.com. campus, carpet, unfurn, all appi,AC, carnpus;232-6964. in The Observer. is "God is crying." And if he asks and sometimes older sisters, 15 & Contact Gary at Grooms@ourweb­2 car gar. No pets. $1650/mo plus why God is crying, another cute 
17. Days, 30-40 hours/week now spot.net or phone 574-277-4759. util. 914-232-3328. OFF CAMPUS HOUSING: House PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­thing to tell him is "Probably through summer. for rent 1/2 mile from ND. 3 bdrms ONE WHO IS? You do not have to because of something you did." 
Reply: Unda.Harmon1 @comcast.net Condo for rent-walk to ND/SM. Grt For rent: Nicest house in area. 4 & 2 full baths, A/C. Newly remod­be alone. We want to help. Call our loc.Spac.Lower,2b/2b incl.all appli. bedroorns,A/C, security. 5 blocks eled. Must see! Call Darin 574-255-24 hour confidential hotline at 1-Liz: Will you go to the yacht dance A/C,Carpet,Porch,Car Port $925 + from campus. 289-4071. 8935. 800-No-ABORT or visit our website with Zach? 
FoR SALE util. 630-417-8763/ at www.lifecall.org 
MCL214@aol.com 2-6 BDRMS HOMES.GREAT Across the street from ND, Corner Circle yes:-) or no:-( *ND CONDOS* NEW 2/3 BR,2 bath RATES.574-329-0308 Lot. 4 BR,2 full baths. A/C & heat. Adopt: A young loving couple long Yes condos Minutes from campus Houses for rent for 2007/8,8/9. OFF CAMPUS HOUSING. 6-bdrms Extra parking. 269-362-0498. to share their Hearts and home with No Starting in $130,000s 574-252-Close to campus. 3-9 bedrooms. & 3 bdrms still available for 07-08. 1-bdrm apts. Quiet historic neigh­a newborn & will provide Endless 2427 ndcondos.com Reserve Yours Call Cosima 277-1875. bumbaca­borhood. Laundry & security. love. Expenses paid call Eileen & The ravens seemed to be calling Today! Call Anlan Properties at 532-1896. houses.com $575/mo. 574-532-8718. Ed at 1-800-718-6577 his name, thought Caw. 



OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, April 18, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 19 
NBA 

umin.· 
x-U1ah x-O.enve.r. 
Portland 
Minnesota Seattle 
team··· 
Associated Press "Especially in light of Do you want to fight'?"' referred to him with an similar prior acts by this Duncan said. "If he wants expletive. 
NEW YOBK -Joey official, a significant sus­to fight, we can fight. I Crawford was the first Crawford is done ejecting pension is warranted,'' don't have any problem referee suspended since players and coaches this Stern said in a statement. with him. but we ean do it Rodnev Mott was banned season. On Tuesday, he was "Although Joey is consis­if he wants to. I have no three games on Jan. 12 for the one getting tossed. tently rated as one of our reason why in the middle of making an obscene gesturf' 
The veteran NBA referee top referees, he must be a game he would yell at toward a fan and also using was suspended indefinitely held accountable for his me, 'Do you want to fight'?'" inappropriate language in by commissioner David actions on the flpor. and we Crawford was cited for Portland. Stern for his conduct will have further discus­"improper conduct" and Crawford comes from an toward Tim Duncan, who sions with him following "inappropriate comments officiating family. His broth­contends the official ehal­the season to be sure he made to Dunean during the er. Jerry, is a major league lenged him to a fight during understands his responsi­game." Stern said umpire, as was his father, a game in Dallas. bilities." Crawford's actions "failed Shag. 
Crawford has worked Crawford ejected Duncan to meet the standards of Joey Crawford is in his more postseason games from San Antonio's loss professionalism and game 29th season as an NBA ref­than any active ref. IIis sus­after calling a second tech­management we expect of eree. He has officiated pension will last at least nical foul on the Spurs star NBA referees." more than 2,000 games through the NBA tlnals, and while he was laughing on The NBA also fined during the regular season he apparently vvill have to the bench. Duncan $25,000 for verbal and 252 in the playoffs, meet with Stern after that "He looked at me and abuse of an offieial. including 36 in the NBA to discuss reinstatement. said, 'Do you want to tight? Crawford said Duncan finals. 
-
IN BRIEF 

High school recruitin_g viola­West to step down as Veterans sue Michigan over 
tion goes to Supreme Court Grizzlies' director in July stadium wheelchair access 
BRENTWOOD. Tenn. -The U.S. MEMPHIS, Tenn.-Jerry West will DETROIT -A disabled veterans Supreme Court gets the case again leave as the Memphis Grizzlies' group sued the University of Wednesday: Did a. Tennessee high. director of basketball operations July Michigan on Tuesday, saying there school football power violate recruiting 1, ending a live-year stint with the aren't enough spaces for wheelchair rules or simply exercise free speech'? former expansion franchise. users at Michigan Stadium, one of 
The 10-year-old dispute pits West, one of the NBA's great play­the largest football stadiums in the Brentwood Academy, a wealthy priv<1,te ers and exeeutives with the Los country. school in suburban Nashville, against Angeles Lakers, disclosed his plans The federal lawsuit, filed by the the Tennessee Secondary School Tuesday during an end-of-season . Michigan Paralyzed Veterans of Athletie Association, the state body meeting with reporters. The 68-year­America, claims university oflicials governing high school sports. old West had been under contract are intentionally sidestepping the 
NHL Brentwood Academy sent a letter only through this season. rules of the Americans with 
around the dial 
-
Sabres at Islanders inviting 12 eighth-graders to attend The Grizzlies (21-60) have the Disabilities Act. spring football practice in 1997. The worst record in the league and their A $226 million renovation is
7:30 p.m., Versus 

students' parents already had signed troubles on the court have been planned for the 107 ,000-seat stadi­contracts and paid deposits to attend compounded by the possible sale of um, which currently has 90 wheel­
Predators at Sharks 

the high sehool. the club. West fired Mike Fratello in chair-accessible seats. The school 
10 p.m., Versus But the athletic assoeiation said the December and hired Tonv Barone as says the renovation work will letter violated rules against recruiting an interim coach. • increase that to 282 seats, but the high school players, and it penalized West. whose silhouette from his suit argues that about 1,000 wheel­the school with a $3,000 fine and four playing days is featured on the NBA chair-accessible seats are required. years' probation. School officials logo, won eight NBA titles as either a "It's extremely disappointing that it unsuceessfully appealed twiee before player, executive or consultant with had to come to this." said Richard suing. the La.kers. Bernstein, attorney for the plaintiffs. 

----~ 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, April 18 , 2007 
NBA 

O-wner says Sonics to leave Seattle after '07 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles swept by Thunder 
Saint Mary's drops doubleheader on the road at Tri-State 9-1, 3-2 
three runs in the fourth. In its own runs. The score stood 
By BECKY SLINGER 
the last inning of the game, at 2-2 until the fifth when Tri­
SportS Writer 
Thunder senior shortstop State sophomore Sallie Rainbow Bednarski Richardson Tri-State pitchers limited the scored to end the "The momentum scored on a Belles -who are third in the game 9-1 in five wild pitch to 
was on our side

MIAA for batting average innings. give the (.358) -to 10 hits and three The Belles nearly versus the first Thunder the runs in Tuesday's doublehead­made up for their lead for good. 
game when we 

er, leading the Thunder to lack of offense in the In the sev­
couldn't catch up.

trump Saint Mary's 9-1 and 3-first game by nar­enth, the Belles 
2. rowly losing to the The second game had a chance After disappointing confer­Thunder 3-2 in the for a comeback.
we were in it more, 

ence play, freshman second second contests and Rashid singled,
and it was a lot

baseman Maureen Healy said stretching the game and then sopho­the team is still struggling to to all seven innings. more competitive." more Cathy find its rhythm. "The second game Kurczak "We hit fine our first game we started off lead­reached second
Maureen Healy 

today -it's just a matter of ing -we jumped on on an error,
Belles second 

stringing those hits together. I them," Healy said. advancing think we're just "The baseman Rashid to third. missing that one "It's just a matter momen-In the next little thing," Healy tum was on our three at-bats, the Belles were
ofstringing those 
said. "Once we side versus the unable to get another hit and
hits together. ...
find [our rhythm] I first game left the runners stranded on think we 'II be all We're just missing when we couldn't second and third, ending the right." catch up. The sec­game 3-2. 
that one little 
In the first game, ond game we Tri-State (21-5) is now 5-1 in
thing."
sophomore pitcher were in it more, the MIAA. The Belles (14-6, 1­Calli Davison and it was a lot 5 MIAA) are still second from struggled against Maureen Healy more competi­the bottom in MIAA standings, the Thunder's tive." above Kalamazoo (0-8 MIAA).
Belles second 
powerful hitting, Sophomore first The Belles will next face
baseman
allowing 11 hits in baseman Katie Goshen College (No. 8 in the five innings. Belles Rashid went 2-for-Mid-Central Conference) in senior shortstop Sarah Miesle 3 and homered in the second. Goshen, Ind., Thursday at 3:30 scored one run on designated Rashid batted in Heline who p.m. hitter Laura Heline's single to had doubled to left field earli­center field. er in the inning. 
The Thunder drove in four Tri-State quickly answered Contact Becky Slinger at runs in the third inning and the Belles by getting in two of rslingO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE -SuperSonics majority owner Clay Bennett says the NBA team likely will not play in Seattle beyond the 2007-08 season. 
Bennett said Tuesday that Gov. Chris Gregoire won't call lawmakers into special session so the team can continue to push for taxpayer money for a new $500 million arena. And he said the Sonics will honor their KeyArena lease that runs through 2010-but most like­ly only through "a legal exer­cise." 
"That may or may not mean the team will play there," Bennett said during a confer­ence call. 
Seattle's NBA team for the last 40 years is obligated to stay in the city only for one more season. 
''I'm not sure it makes sense to play there if relocation [is imminent]." 
Bennett, whose investor group bought the team last year from a local group head­ed by Starbucks Chairman Howard Schultz, is a promi­nent Oklahoma City business. man, and the sale prompted widespread fear among Sonics fans the team would be moved to Oklahoma. Bennett prom-. ised to keep the team in the Seattle area if a deal could be struck for a new arena. 
On Monday, legislative lead­ers decided not to consider the plan for a new arena in subur­ban Renton durin'g the regular session, which is due to end by Sunday, saying it lacks enough support to pass. 
Bennett said he had no hope Gregoire would call lawmak­ers back. 
"I have asked her opinion of that and she said the special session is not (going to) hap­pen," Bennett said. 
Asked by The Associated Press on Tuesday morning about a special session, Gregoire replied: "No discus­sion about that." Her spokes­woman later disputed Bennett's account of his con­versation with Gregoire. 
"The governor has no recol­lection of any mention of a special session during her phone call with Clay Bennett," said Holly Armstrong, Gregoire's spokeswoman. 
Bennett also said he would not bring the arena plan before lawmakers when the next regular session begins in January because he will by then be exploring his contrac­tual right to move the Sonics and the WNBA's Storm. That right, from his $350 million purchase of the teams last summer, takes effect after Oct. 31. 

-
Wednesday, April 18, 2007 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
CLUB SPORTS 
Men's volleyball finishes ninth at nationals 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's sixth-ranked team ventured to Louisville, Ky. this past week for the club vol­leyball national championships, where the top-50 Division I teams in the country competed. With their highest final ranking -ninth -in the club's history, the Irish raised expectations to make a deep run in this year's tournament. 
The Irish opened pool play against the Naval Academy. Despite Navy's top-notch 
/ 
0 

defense, the high-powered offense of Notre Dame proved to be too much as outside hitter Drew Williams got kills at will. The match was over soon after it began, when Notre Dame won in convincing fashion, 25-21, 25-20. 
For their second match the Irish faced Dayton in a battle between brothers, Notre Dame's John Tibbie and Dayton's Jim Tibbie. Behind the inspired defensive play of John Tibbie, Notre Dame was able to defeat Dayton in straight sets 25-23, 
U.S. Cellular gets us... so vve can get together, even vvhen ~..ve 're not. 
National Family Plans (even friends can share) 
• 
1400 minutes for $89.99 a month 

• 
UNLIMITED Mobile-to-Mobile Minutes 

• 
UNLIMITED Night &Weekend Minutes (Starting at 7:00p.m.) 

• 
FREE Incoming Text Messages 



25-21. 

Notre Dame locked up a first­place finish by defeating Northeastern in straight sets in the final match of the day. The Irish were in control from start to finish as setter Nolan Kane kept the opposing defense guessing. 
Moving into the second day with an unblemished record, Notre Dame needed to win one of its two matches to move into the final 16 of the tournament. First up for the Irish was Boston College. This was the first meet­ing between the two traditional rivals. Through most of the first set, the teams traded sideouts and neither team had a clear advantage. Middle blocker James Foresman stepped up to sway the game in favor of the Irish, who took it 25-23. 
The momentum of the win carried on into the second game, which the Irish controlled in its entirety. The victory gave the Irish a guaranteed spot in the gold bracket. In its next game, Notre Dame squeaked out a win over Michigan State in 
Take our best network challenge, test our products, experience our customer service and make sure they are right for you. 

~ f'il"'t c n 1
Y'· 0.~. e u ar 
'.L 
Check om i.k: 
4U. NEW getu~ 
Tracy Motorola Fire Red RAZR 
Tennessee 

-·//(,l'J-'-'.''· "'·'-"·9'-'>"··-"-' .-., <\,. "-'''"-' -~l.i r:<l!XJi\i.•• . Unlimited Night and Weekend Minutee ·_,;__,H' i ''-"' 
~-.,~n-:·?f"~: r~.~::;;·:~~ ·:; ;p;; ~·h.,.-;:'.::'. :;.s_ :';i.:Lt~ >i~;~;:~ r~} Ji.;:~T:!J.~~) ::;,';::;..<:JJ.? ·.?::~:-·~.-:': f/ fu"E(.!l~·!=.'.'i.: : ot lt·: ;:x-: :"\_;j·s:<t ::-,;-wg;: ..:r~~« ;1 :=·, :::w,,=·.;=r=·; onc-.;:,,,;~: ~, .:;:-=::.:·.. ~:,·: o ·.t. i::.::-:~ ·Nkl.~~~,-..-_.;;;-:/:.·"0..-":.;,'~-*i'lt~=~·=., 30-0ay Guarantee: , 
~i f;.ti:~.t:~ F=· •••~~=::.: .;r;:J =·i.;m:j::;[ :.:i~·' ;:·,:t>x~:::li-:··. ·:' 
the fmal match of the day, need­
ing all three sets to down the 
Spartans. 
Still boasting a perfect record going into the final day, the Irish were fighting for a spot in the quarterfinals against a strong Santa Clara team. Santa Clara jumped out to an insurmount­able early lead behind impene­trable defense and strong block­ing and held on to win 25-17. 
Behind the outside hitting of Dan Zibton, who was later named honorable mention to the All-America team, the Irish were able to send the match to a third set by winning the sec­ond with a score of 25-21. The intensity carried over to the final set as the Irish built a quick 3-0 lead. Following some back and forth play, Santa Clara brought the game back into their reach by tying it at 10-10. Next, back-to-hack blocks by the Santa Clara right side shift­ed the momentum and led to a disappointing Irish loss 11-15. 
Two Irish league rivals, Wisconsin-Oshkosh and Lakeland, battled in the cham­pionship game, with Oshkosh claiming the title. 
Gymnastics 
This past weekend, the club competed at the NAIGC National Championships in Cincinnati, Ohio. 
Despite having a small team, the women competed very well and scored a 106.00. For Maura Steed and Wendy Jo Svetanoff, this was the last meet of their undergraduate careers. Kelleen O'Leary was the top fin­isher for the Irish, qualifying to the event finals on the uneven bars. Sophia Troy and Jacquelyn Carney also turned in solid performances to help the Irish. 
Texas won the men's team title, while Texas A & M cap­tured the women's title. 
Women's water polo 
The club came away with two big victories at its home invita­tional this Saturday. In the day's first contest, the Irish came out strong with a 12-4 win over MSU. Bridget O'Neill and Kelly Horner led the scoring with three goals apiece, Cristina Romano added another two, and Kristen Harchut, MC Cimino, Paige Chang and Emily Harig all tallied another. Goaltending was split between Betsy O'Neill and Maggie Hyde. 
The Irish needed double over­time to take down Michigan in their next game. Kat Kennifer netted the game-winning goal on her birthday to complete the 8-7 win. Other goals were scored by O'Neill (4), Kristin Schmitt (2) and MC Cimino. 
Sailing 
Notre Dame finished 13th in a field of 16 teams at the Buckeye Intersectional Regatta this weekend. The top five finishers in order were Vermont, Michigan State, Owens, Ohio State and Michigan. 
Chris May, Alii Donahue and Brigid Diaz raced the A Division ~ for the Irish and finished 13th. Joe Peris, Donahue, Diaz and Huddie Williams competed in the Bs and placed 11th. 
Notre Dame's top sailors raced in the University of Minnesota Regatta this week­end. The club fmished third in a strong field. The results and standings have not yet been released and are not available for publication at this time. 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 18, 2007 
NHL 
Rangers rout Thrashers, take 3-0 series lead 
Associated Press 
A year ago, the Rangers were swept on their return to the post­
NEW YORK-The balloons season after missing seven had barely settled in festive straight times. Jagr and Madison Square Garden when Lundqvist were hurt and New Michael Nyland·er and Jaromir York was no match for New Jagr wrecked the night for Kari Jersey then, but this group Lehtonen and the visiting Atlanta earned the team's first home Thrashers. playofl' win since 1997. 
Nylander scored the first of his Red, white and blue balloons three goals 32 seconds after the fell from the upper reaches of the opening faceoff and paved the Garden during the national way for the Rangers' 7-0 blowout anthem, and the loud din hadn't Tuesday night that put New York left the arena when Nylander within a win of the second round scored. of the playoffs for the first time in Lehtonen stopped 34 of 38 a decade. shots in the series-opening 4-3 
"Nobody on this team played loss and was worse upon his 10 years ago," said Nylander's return. linemate Jaromir Jagr, who had "There are no answers," for­four assists. "We just want to win ward Bobby Holik said. "The the game and play the same passion should be there but it way." isn't." 
Lehtonen got the curious start Hedberg made 37 saves in a over Johan Hedberg and then much better performance endured a thorough beating as Saturday, allowing a fluke goal the Rangers scored three times on Sean Avery's bank shot from in the first period and cruised to center ice and Shanahan's a commanding 3-0 lead in the gimme ofT a perfect setup in front Eastern Conference playoff by Avery in the 2-1 defeat. series. 
Nylander had his first playoff Senators 2, Penguins hat trick, and Henrik Lundqvist Sidney Crosby warned that no stopped 21 shots in his first NHL one should be surprised if the playofl' shutout for the Rangers, least-likely players made the who can advance to the second biggest plays in what was expect­
his second. He has only nine Pittsburgh, appearing in the failures -nine successive tripsround as early as Wednesday at ed to be a high-scoring Ottawa­goals in 229 career regular-sea­playoffs for the first time since to the playofl's without reachinghome. Pittsburgh playoff series. 
son games. 2001, has dropped its last eight the finals. "We don't care if"It felt like everything was Anton Volchenkov proved that "It was, basically, rwxt goal Game 4s in the postseason. This they're pretty or if they're ugly." 
working for us," Lundqvist said. in what may turn out to be a piv­wins and they got it," said time, it was because the Senators Ottawa won both games in"It's not every night, especially otal game. 
Crosby, the NHL seoring ehampi­quieted Crosby and rookie Pittsburgh, where the Penguinsnot in the playoffs, when every­Volchenkov scored on a slap on who was held without a goal Evgeni Malkin, who has yet to have lost 10 of their last 13 play­
thing just seems to work for shot from the slot midway 
for the first time in the series. score despite having 85 points off games -though none ofyou." through the third period and the "But every guy in that room can during the season. The Penguins these players were responsibleTell that to his young counter­Ottawa Senators moved within look in the mirror and know he also were 0-for-5 on the power for those other losses. Pittsburghpart. one victory of eliminating the gave an honest effort. We play to Ottawa's 1-for-3. has come back from 3-1 deficitsLehtonen was touched for all Penguins by winning 2-1 on showed ourselves, and them, "We're playing the smartest before, most recently in 1995seven goals on 35 shots. That Tuesday night. 
we're a difficult team to play hockey we've played in a long against Washington, but thewas enough for the Rangers' vic­The Senators proved they against. If we .take that to time," Spezza said of a Senators Senators are 3-0 after they go uptory theme "Sweet Caroline" to could win a one-goal game when Ottawa, we have a chance." team known for its past playofl' 3-1.
play with 5:16 remaining over it counts -they lost 22 of 32 chants of "Sweep! Sweep!" such games during the regular 
"It's the time when you really season, despite being second in want to make the difference and goal scoring. They weathered a you want to make them mad dominating second period by when you're playing in a place Pittsburgh, a reversal of the first like this," Lehtonen said. "But three games. and remained today they are happy." patient and persistent until get­
Jagr assisted on all of ting the winner. Nylander's scores and they Ottawa takes a 3-1 lead into teamed to set up defenseman Game 5 on Thursday night, Marek Malik for another that where the teams split the first made it 3-0 at 12:26. two games in the Eastern 
But Nylander's first strike was Conference first-round series. the quickest. "Going back home, we want to 
"It's something that you don't bury them," Ottawa's Jason want, but I was able to put it Spezza said. "We don't want to behind me right away and focus come back here and give them on the next shift," Lehtonen said. life. When you get a team on the "It's what I always do but they ropes, you want to try to knock kept coming hard and we didn't them out." make it tough enough." The go-ahead goal by 
Rookie Ryan Callahan scored Volchenkov came amid an ever­twice in the second period, shifting flow in which one team defenseman Fedor Tyutin earned would press for a goal and the his fifth assist of the series, and other would answer, creating an Brendan Shanahan and up-and-down and entertaining Nylander added goals in the final game despite the relative lack of frame. scoring. 
Thrashers coach Bob Hartley, Mike Comrie took the puck out who went back to Lehtonen -from behind the net toward the the Game 1 loser -even though left corner and threw a hard Hedberg played well in Game 2, pass to the slot, and Volchenkov called timeout after Malik's goal. one-timed a 30-foot shot over Lehtonen skated to the bench to goalie Marc-Andre Fleury's left regroup while Hedberg took a shoulder. Fleury had dropped to calm squirt of water. his knees early on the play in 
The break only brought tempo­anticipation of the pass going rary relief to Lehtonen and the toward the crease. 
~ Southeast Division-winning "I don't srore much but I Thrashers, who are on the brink scored a very big goal," said of a sweep in their first playofl' Volchenkov, who said his only appearance. bigger goal was in the world jun­"How can we blame Kari?" iors for Russia against Canada. said I lartley, who said his team "It was a great, great play, a pass froze after the early goal. "No. 1, for me ... and not too much traf­we don't score, so at best we fic. I might be a little bit lucky." would still be playing. Kari Volchenkov, a defenseman, Lehtonen is a young goalie. lie scored only once in 78 games played hard, he played very well during the season and had only for us but he was by himself on one previous playoff goal, four the ice." years and a day before scoring 


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, April 18, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
CLUB SPORTS 
Cyclers place well despite weather conditions 
Women's ultimate places third at Central Plains Sectional; Men's ultimate takes third, advances to regional tourney 
Special to The Observer 
The club competed at both Marian and Purdue this weekend. The Irish were at Marian College in Indianapolis on Saturday for the Marian Cycling Classic Criterium. The one-mile loop around the col­lege campus was challenging enough, but rain and 35 degree temperatures made conditions nearly unbearable. Paul Carlson was the first racer for the Irish, making his debut in the Men C category. Carlson dropped off the pace early, and fmished behind the peleton. In the Women's B race, Jenn Perricone and Meghan Johnson rode strong throughout the entire race, while Elizabeth Israel finished in the middle of the pack. Perricone finished 11th in the sprint. 
Only Tim Campbell and Matt Prygoski started the elite Men's A race for the Irish, as conditions deteriorated to below 30 degrees and snow began to fall, deterring many racers from starting. Campbell finished 18th, while Prygoski wrecked on the last lap and finished 11th. 
Two races took place Sunday near Purdue. The first race of the day was an early team time trial, a race against the clock with a team of up to four riders. The course was a flat three-mile out and back course. Johnson and Perricone upgraded to Women's A, qualify­ing for the National Cycling Championships. Their efforts earned them a lOth-place finish. 
Prygoski, Lavery, Griggs and Campbell started their assault against the clock in the Men's A race. Lavery powered the team to a time of 13:38, putting it at sixth place and only 20 seconds off the winning pace. The following cir­cuit race was a four-mile loop with a brutal half-mile climb. 
Carlson raced hard again in the Men's C field, finishing just off the pace of the peleton. Israel put up nice results finishing sixth in the Women's B field. 
The elite Woman's A and Men's A fields lined up next, with the women doing five circuits and the men eight. Perricone and Johnson finished with a chase group, tak­ing 16th and 18th, respectively. Griggs, Campbell, Prygoski, Steves and Lavery lined up for the Irish in their 32-mile race. Lavery was forced to abandon after only 50 meters due to total bike failure. The four remaining Irish were unable to make the winning break and had a few failed breakaway attempts. They were forced to remain with the peleton and take their chances with the field sprint. Prygoski, Steves and Griggs took fourth, ninth and 13th in the field sprint, placing them 11th, 16th and 20th overall. Campbell blew up during the sprint and finished just outside of placing. 
Ultimate 
Hucking, bidding, sprinting and jumping, the Notre Dame women worked hard this weekend to earn third place at the Central Plains Open Sectionals tournament. On Saturday, they faced Loyola, Illinois, Knox, Chicago and Purdue, defeating all but Illinois and shutting out Knox. 

Strong defense on the part of freshman Erin Maxwell and junior Libby Whiting forced numerous turns to gain possession of the disc. Sophomore Hannah Duffey and senior Jeannie Joeckel both made great cuts for several scores. 
Sophomore Katie Bilek and jun­ior Shannon Morrison came through with solid throws, keep­ing the game alive and assisting several points for the Irish. The team finished Saturday second in its pool and moved into the cham­pionship bracket for the second day of the tournament. 
The team played three more times Sunday afternoon, beating Wheaton but dropping two games to Northwestern. With great throws by sophomore Jean Whitney and seniors Rachel Meeks and Jen Pruchnik, Notre Dame worked the disc up the field, completing many passes to fresh­man Katie Morin and junior Loretta Brown. 
The club will next compete in the Great Plains Open Regionals in Champaign, Ill., April28. 
This weekend the men's ulti­mate team traveled to Naperville, Ill., to compete in the Central Plains Sectional Tournament. This was the first step in the UPA College series that would deter­mine who qualified for the region­al tournament in two weeks. The A team started Saturday with two convincing wins in pool play against Illinois B and DePaul. 
In the Illinois B game, the team came out strong led by solid play from sophomore Thomas Rivas and cruised to a 15-1 victory. In the next game against DePaul, Notre Dame was able to dominate on offense with help from junior 
Center for Asian Studies, East Asian Languages &Cultures. Film, Television, & Theatre. and m Talks Present: With the Film Society ofLincoln Center. Columbia University, and Today LiteraryJournal  
On the Edge: New Independent Cinema from China  
APRIL 19-21, 2007 BROWNING FAMILY CINEMA MARIE P. DeBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS, University of Notre Dame Thursday, April19, 4:00 p.m. Keynote Address: Dr. Anne Thurston (invited) Browning Cinema, Open to the Public Presented by the National Committee on U.S. -China Relations with support by the Luce and Starr Foundations as pari of t/Je National Committees Public Intellectual Program  
Showing:  
Walking on the Wild Side (Lai xiaozi, 2006) Thursday, 4/19 at 5:00p.m.  Unknown Pleasures (Ren xiao yao, 2002) Thursday, 4/19 at 8:30p.m.  Silent Holy Stones (l!i1gjing de mannishi. 2005) Friday, 4120 at 7:00p.m. For more information visit: WWW.Jid.edul-ftt  Orphan ofAnyang (Anyang ying'er, 2001) Friday, 4120 at 10:00 p.m.  Blind Shaft (Mang jing, 2003) Saturday, 4121 at 2:00p.m.  

Mike Florack leading the way to a 
15-3 win. 
Notre Dame then played 

Northwestern, which also won its 
pool earlier that day. The Irish 
came out strong and took an early 
3-1 lead. But despite hard team 
defense, the offense struggled and 
Northwestern took the game 12-9. 
The team played one more game 
Saturday versus Ball State. Behind 
the leadership of grad students 
Joe Ribaudo and Matthew Rissler, 
the Irish prevailed 15-9. 
Notre Dame faced Loyola­Chicago in the quarterfinals Sunday. With stellar defense from junior Nick Chambers and effi­cient offense from grad student Chris O'Neill, the team avenged a loss two weeks ago with its 15-4 victory. The win gave the team some much needed momentum going into its semifinal game against Indiana. The momentum carried over as Notre Dame got out to an early lead. With great play from senior captains Steve ·Kurtz and Eric Morin, the team 
held on for a tough 11-10 win. 
Notre Dame's run finally came 

to an end in the finals when 
Illinois beat the Irish 15-9. The 
Irish finished in third overall after 
falling 15-8 in a rematch with 
Indiana during the consolation 
game. However, the finish was 
good enough to qualify for the 
regional tournament April28-29. 
The B team had a harder road 

this weekend. They opened 
Saturday against Northwestern, 
and despite hard play from fresh­
men Chris Barron and Shea 
Bettwy, the team lost. They then 
fell to Purdue in a back and forth 
second game. Next, the team 
dropped a close game with 
DePaul, despite fine play from 
captain Dave Farley. 
On Sunday, the B squad lost its 

first game to Northern Illinois 
before ending on a positive note 
with its first win of the weekend 
against Indiana State. 
storage
space
• Lighted &Pa"Yed 
• Free Lock wan ever; unlt 
4MorrJl Special Mav mrouon August For Notre Dame Students 5X10 ...$149+ OEP 10 X10 ...$199 t OEP cau 574-247.7S05 Eetween Notre Dame and Airpon at tile comer of Mayflower & Edison 


page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 18, 2007 

ATTENTION: STUDY ABROAD STUDENTSIII NOW OFFERING HALF-YEAR LEASES!! 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
• 4 dnd 5 Bedroom fmlvnllomes • 6 Blocks from C1mpu} • 2 B.dthrooms 
It's a whole new placel 
Netv local r;M;~nfHSh.ip &managmerrt 1\fet.vly rernodeJed for 2007,2008 
www.kramerhousea.com 
Renting fast· call today for 2007· 2008 


Co01eback 
continued from page 28 
lead to the Irish and trailing 7-5 in the top of the ninth, the Rockets got two runs to force the game to continue. With one out, Toledo centerfielder Drew Hoisington singled to bring left fielder Jake Swint to the plate. Swint hit a bouncer to second that should have been a double play ball, but Barnes muffed it. 
Hoisington, who advanced to third on the error, then scored on a wild pitch, while Swint scored on a double by third baseman Scott Boley. 
The Irish, who faced a deficit of as many as five, improved to 2­13 in games they trailed by three or more. 
Behind 5-4 in the eighth, Notre Dame burst out for three runs to take the lead. With one out, pinch hitter Eddie Mendiola sin­gled, and shortstop Brett Lilley­who played in his 14th straight game without committing an error -was hit by a pitch. Third baseman A.J. Pollock hit a grounder to second, but Rockets second baseman Ryan Laude threw it into left field, and a run scored to tie the game at 5-5. 
Toledo changed pitchers, bringing in right-hander Matt Meinberg, but Meinberg walked left fielder Ross Brezovsky to force in a run and give the Irish the lead. Meinberg was replaced immediately by right-hander Joe Roberts. 
After a walk, first baseman Mike Dury blasted one deep to right, but Rockets right fielder Joel Visser caught it on the warning track. Pollock scored anyway on the sacrifice. 
Notre Dame looked ready to 
Ubserver Irish first baseman Mike Dury smiles after picking off Toledo outfielder Jake Swint in Notre Dame's 8-7 win Tuesday. 
blow the game wide open when centerfielder Danny Dressman roped the nexf pitch to left field, but Brezovsky got caught between third and home and was tagged out. 
The Rockets built an early lead, striking first on a three-run home run by Hoisington in the top of the third. It was only the 11th home run the Irish have allowed this season and the first in the last nine games. 
The Rockets added to their lead in the fifth. VIsser slapped a double down the left field line, scoring Hoisington and Swint and putting Toledo up 5-0. 
Irish starter Brett GraflY gave up five runs in his five innings pitched while striking out six bat­ters. 
Notre Dame fmally got on the scoreboard in the sixth, begin­ning the comeback it would com­plete in the eighth. Designated hitter Matt Weglarz singled, took third on a throwing error and scored on a ground ball by Barnes to bring the Irish within four. Center fielder Danny Dressman, who reached on the error, scored when the next bat­ter, catcher Hyan Smith, drove him in with a single. 
The Irish cut into the lead again in the seventh. The first four batters of the inning all sin­gled, scoring a run and driving Rockets reliever Chris Fields from the game. 
After a strikeout, Dressman faced new pitcher Jeff Cinadr and hit a grounder to second. Toledo got the first out, but the Irish center fielder was safe at first and a run scored. 
Barnes came up next and blasted one to deep left-center but left fielder Swint made a div­ing catch to save multiple runs and end the inning. 
"That was one of the greatest catches I've 1wer seen," Schrage said. "We were kind of stunned." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

SMC TENNIS 
Belles fail to grab first place in MIAA 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's could not capture first place in the MIAA Tuesday. 
The second place Belles fell 7-2 to first place and undefeated Kalamazoo College this after­noon. 
Kalamazoo, ranked No. 12 in the region, used both strong sin­gles and doubles play to domi­nate the Belles and add another win to its 11-7 overall record. Kalamazoo also boasts a 6-0 record in the MIAA, while the Belles remain tied for second place with an overall record of 8­11 and an MIM record of 4-2. 
"The girls of Kalamazoo have improved a lot since we played them last," senior captain Kelly McDavitt said.· "And although we all put our hearts into the match we weren't able to get a victory." 
In the first singles match of the day, senior captain Kelly McDavitt fell to Hornets freshman Beau Wangtrakuldee 6-1 and 6-0. 
Belles standout freshman Camille Gebert battled Hornets senior Megan Fink, pushing the match into three sets and eventu­ally gaining the victory. She defeated Fink 6-4, lost in a tiebreaker 6-7 and fmally defeat­ed Fink in a heated final set 10-8. 
In the No. 3 singles spot, Hornets senior captain Laura Spencer defeated freshman Lisa Rubino 6-1, 6-2. Senior Tara O'Brien also fell in No. 4 singles, losing to freshman Ayano Nakamura 6-2 and 6-1. 
At No. 5 singles, junior Cassie Quaglia fell 6-1, 6-0 to Hornets sophomore Lindsay Zuhlke. In the final singles match of the afternoon, Belles senior Grace Gordon fell to Hornets sophomore Smitha Gudipati 6-1 and 6-2. 
In the day's doubles play, McDavitt and Gebert used team­work to defeat Spencer and Hornets junior Mary Atallah 8-5 in the No. 1 doubles spot. In the No. 2 spot, Hornets players Zuhlke and Fink defeated the Belles duo of O'Brien and Gordon 8-2. In the final doubles match of the day, the freshman team of Kaplan and Rubino fell to Hornets freshman Sayako Nakawaga and Wangtrakuldee 8­2. 
The Belles hope to better their record today when traveling to Tri-State. The match was origi­nally scheduled for April 11, but due to poor weather conditions, the team will play this afternoon at 3. 
The Thunder are currently 1-4 in the MIAA and have a seventh­place seed. In last year's competi­tion, the Belles dominated, almost shutting out the Thunder with an 8-1 win. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
Contact Kramer at f574J 31.5-5032 or_ f574J 234-2436 
Wednesday, April 18, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 

EXERCI9E VOUR FEDERAL RIQHT9! CON90LIOATE VOUR DIRECT AND/OR FEDERAL LOAN9 



Get the best ofboth worlds! Lock in a low rate andstay in your grace period! 
Department of Music Presents 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
CHORALE 
& CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR PAIVI EKROTH, PIANO 

BYRD)' MOZART)' BEETHOVEN)' BRAHMS BRUCKNER , DEBUSSY )' STRAVINSKY 8:00P.M. SATURDAY, APRIL 21, 2007 
LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL MARIE P. DEI\ARTOI.O CENTER FOR THE PERfORMING ARTS 
Tickets ~10, ~8, ~6, ~3 
phone 574-631-:2.80o 
.,("iii, DEBARTOLO 
'·c~ #)! PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 

guard Phil Drendall said. "Hopefully, he'll have a mad
Bookstore 
handle like I do." continued from page 28 
Wu-Tang Clan 21, Shrieking Dooling said. Dooling was eject­Sirens 18 ed along with Dwyer after the In a fast paced game that was 
play. completed in a brisk 45 min­Without Dwyer, 380's best utes, the Wu-Tang Clan was offensive threat, 380 struggled able to hold off the Shrieking 
to  wrap  up  the  Sirens.  
half, only up 11-8.  After taking the  
In the second half, both teams  ':4.nna Nicole,s  lead late in the first half,. Wu­ 
adjusted to the 4­ baby would be  Tang Clan never  
on-4  game  and  proud.,,  looked back and  
380 switched to a  was able to main­ 
2-2 the  zone. While start of the  Phil Drendall  tain its throughout  lead the  
second half saw  We Are All the Fathers  entire second half.  
Team 380 domi­ of Anna Nicole's Baby  Team  leader  
nate,  One  and  captain  and  Siegfried  

Done soon took advantage of the gaps in the zone and went on a 5-0 run late, bringing the score to 18-15. Team 380 responded well, how­ever, and after trading a few baskets with One and Done, Luken -injuries and all ­threw up a mid-range rainbow in the net to win the game. 
We Are All the Fathers of Anna Nicole's Baby 21, Team 197 
11 
We Are All the Fathers of Anna Nicole's Baby grabbed the lead early in the game and never let go. While both teams possessed athleticism, it was Anna Nicole that had the bas­ketball skills and knowledge to pull out the win. 
Both teams played a tight 2-3 zone in the first half, but dif­fered on offensive strategy. Team 197 tried to shoot mid-to­long-range jump shots to score on the zone, while Team Anna Nicole took advantage of their size and fed the post while their perimeter players cut to open holes in the defense. 
The result was an 11-3 half­time lead for Anna Nicole, prompting Team 197 to 
"Wu-Tang Clan 
switch to an them to stay with­aggressive man-to­ain ,t nothin, to in several points man defense for mess with.,, throughout the the second half. game, even when While this defense some of their 
Tamba Samba 
was better suited players went cold. to defend the much Wu-Tang Clan member After the game, 
freshman Andrew 
Baroody was 

pleased with his team's first-half performance, but knew they would need to elevate their level of play in the second half to secure the win. 
"We're going to have to get some more boards," Baroody said at halftime. "We're not box­ing out down low right now, and we're not moving the ball around enough. We're faster and more athletic than they are, and if we can just keep up the tempo, we'll be able to pull it out in the end." 
Baroody's words proved to be prophetic as the Wu-Tang Clan came out firing in the second half, building on its 11-9 half­time lead. 
Tamba Samba, a Notre Dame soccer player, was able to run the point effectively and man­aged to keep the tempo at a sprinter's pace. 
In addition, the jump-shooting ability of Matt Bartindale and Mike Camarda proved to be too much for the Shrieking Sirens to handle. 
The lone bright spot for the Sirens was that they were able 
to spread around 
the scoring, 
which helped 

bigger Anna Nicole, it was too little too late. 
Anna Nicole's post play con­tinued to dominate in the sec­ond half. They scored nearly all of their 21 points in the paint. Anna Nicole's center, Phil Lashutka, dominated down low -he grabbed seemingly every rebound, scored at will and showed his great court aware­ness by leading his team in assists. 
While Team 197 gave a valiant effort, the size and bas­ketball knowledge of Anna Nicole was just too much to overcome. 
"Anna Nicole's baby would be proud," Anna Nicole point 
the members of 
the Wu-Tang Clan 

were relieved and satisfied with their perform­ance. 
"We just kept pushing the tempo with fast breaks and good ball movement," Baroody said. "We started getting boards in the second half." 
In addition, Tamba provided his own insight on the win. "Wu-Tang Clan ain't nothin' to mess with," Tamba said. 
Wu-Tang will look to keep this confident attitude alive as it enters the fourth round. 
Contact Jay Wade at jwade@nd.edu and Dan Maloof at dmaloof@nd.edu 
ATRIA SALON2 
Specializing in color 
271.8804 
The Original 

"Specializing in Color" 
Salon HIGHLIGHTS & CUT... $79.00 
Starting April 24th-May 10th 2007 
NO ORDINARY SALON. 
Atria Salon •2039 South Bend Ave., South Bend, IN 46637 • t: 574.271.8804 *CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS APPLY. MUST PRESENT THIS AD 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 18, 2007 
Two 
continued from page 28 
who led off both innings with a single. 
Second baseman Katie Laing knocked her in both times with a pair of doubles for two of her four RBis on the day. The jun­ior also scored four times her­self in the two games. Her biggest hit of the first game came in the bottom of the fourth when she crushed a high fastball over the left field wall to give the Irish a 9-0 advan­tage. 
Senior pitcher Kenya Fuemmeler retired the side in order in the next half inning, and the game was called at that point due to the mercy rule. 
Fuemmeler came in to relieve sophomore Brittney Bargar in the third inning, and the pair combined to shut out the Broncos, giving up one hit apiece. 
Gumpf decided to go with the same pitching plan in game two, and it worked just as well. The Irish cruised to a 5-1 win. Bargar gave up a double to right center to the first batter of the game, but did not allow another ball out of the infield in her five innings of work. 
"She just wanted the hitters to do what she wanted them to do. She was jamming them and she was getting them to hit off the end of the bat," Gumpf said. 
Notre Dame used small ball to get itself on the scoreboard in the third. After walking to lead off the inning, Brown advanced to second on a per­fect bunt from senior catcher Gessica Hufnagle. Laing then picked up her final RBI on the day with a single to left field. She also came around to score when freshman third baseman Heather Johnson snuck one past the Western infield. 

Johnson's next hit didn't need to sneak by anyone. She con­nected with a fastball and sent it towering over the left field wall for a three-run dinger. The moonshot gave Notre Dame a 5-0 advantage. Johnson also had a solid game on defense with six assists from the hot corner. 
"Johnson did a really nice job. I think she had two balls hit at her every inning," Gumpf said. 
The Broncos were able to scratch across one run in the sixth inning when Kristi Strange singled to left, but Fuemmeler was able to stif1e the threat and finish off the win for Notre Dame. 
The Irish will play again this afternoon against Ball State at 5 p.m. on Ivy Field. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Vandy 
continued from page 28 
Thrift has 24 goals and 23 assists on the season. 
"Both teams have a lot riding on this game," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "They're a great team and we expect a close game." 
In Nashville, the Irish (11-3) will 

"Both teams have a
look to use their McKinney tallied momentum from lot riding on this a· goal and four Saturday's 13-8 win assists. With the
game.
over No. 9 points, Georgetown, a vic­McKinney tory Coyne called Tracy Coyne extended her "one of the biggest Irish coach scoring streak to lar performance guarding Georgetown star Coco Stanwick. Facing the senior All­American, Fitzpatrick held Stanwick to just one goal and an assist while also collecting five ground balls and forcing two turnovers. 
McKinney was named Womenslax.com player of the week for her offensive efforts in the Georgetown game. Against the Hoyas, 
in the history of the program." The Hoyas were previously unde­feated in seven years of Big East conference play before dropping the match to the Irish at home. 
The Irish, who have scored 29 
36 games, tying the Notre Dame record. 
Coyne, in her 11th season coaching the Irish, was also named U.S. Lacrosse coach of the week after the victory. 
"It was nice recognition for 

goals in the past us, not only the
"Hopefully our . 
two games, hope to individual play­
offense can take
continue their ers getting hon­recent offensive over. ors they deserve, success against but as a team Vanderbilt. being recognized 
Tracy Coyne 
"Hopefully our fast­for our perform­
Irish coach 
break offense can ance," Coyne 
take ove~" Coyne said. "We're trying to keep the game up-tempo with quick passes." 
Notre Dame racked up the weekly lacrosse honors after the historic victory, with junior Caitlin McKinney and senior Meghan Fitzpatrick receiving individual awards. 
Fitzpatrick, a defender, was named Big East defensive play­er of the week after a spectacu­
said. 
The Vanderbilt match begins the last week of the regular season for the Irish. Notre Dame, currently in a three-way tie for first in the Big East, will play its final home game Saturday in a crucial con­ference match against No. 18 Rutgers. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 


Rev. Edmund P. Joyce~ (~.S.C. Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching 
The following faculty members have had a profound influence on Notre Dame undergraduates through sustained, 
exemplary teaching. 

Sunny K. Boyd Yu-Chi Chang Kathleen S. Cummings Paul A. Down Jan L. Hagens Louis MacKenzie 
A. ]ames McAdams Jeffrey S. Miller Camlyn R. Nordstrom Rev. Mark L. Poorman, C.S.C. 
\Villiam M. Ramsey 
Siiri S. Scott Michael M. Stanisic 
jeffrey W. Talley 
Richard E. Taylor 
A. Peter Walshc Michael C. Wieschcr 

The following individuals have demonstrated a deep commitment to Notre Dame undergraduates through outstanding mentoring, academic advising, or career counseling services. 
Carl B. Ackermann Rev. James K. Foster, C.S.C. 
L. .John Roos 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
Office of the Provost 

Wednesday, April 18, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 


LIAMMORAN
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 School assignment

Supersonic unit 38 Devilfish
5 Goalie's stat 40 Microwave
10 Frizzy do 42 Together
14 Old Greek theaters 43 Self-interest doctrine
15 One of the Horae· 45 Easter preceder 16 Speakeasy risk 47 Part of M.I.T.: Abbr.
17 Look-alike of a source of oil? 48 Exact replica of six Northeastern
19 Concerned with states?
20 WWW address 51 1813 battle site21 Second ltr. 
52 Less assertive

addendum 56 Shoots down
22 Dugout V.I.P. 60 In accordance
24 Place to play? 
with26 Overdo the 61 HistoricT.L.C. 

Virginian27 Spitting image 62 Tandoor, e.g.

of a children's storybook 63 Carbon copy of character? a Cleveland 
ballpark?

33 Grills or pumps 66 Witty remark
36 Wine-and­cassis drink 67 Contents list 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
68 Drawn 69 Maybe more, 
maybe less 70 Loses it 71 "Handy" one 
DOWN 1 Finish 2 Be nuts about 3 String quartet 
member 4 Lyricist David 5 Beer buy 6 Wall St. figures 7 Skein formation 8 Captivate 9 One serving a 
long term 1 o Met highlight 11 Part of the 
mouth of a cottonmouth 12 Liturgy 13 Something in the air 18 arms 23 Where Hercules slew the lion 25 Country 26 Send over the edge 28 Dick's mate, twice 29 Positive aspect 30 Crackpot 31 Buffet dispensers 32 Mark in the margin 33 Prayer period? 34 Learned 35 Have down cold 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Richard Silvestri 

39 Beyond the 50 ball 58 Porgy's woman pale? (spongy 
59 Biblical
plaything) 
preposition41 Patronage 
53 Anne of fashion
purveyor, for 60 Papermakingshort 54 Sniggled material 
55 Helen who sang "Angie Baby" 

44 Sells 64 Group an atty. 
gen. might
46 One of 11 kings 56 Self-defense address of Egypt school 
65 Give-go go­49 Stanza maker 57 At any point between 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or. with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/cross\·:~rds ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JJIJJMLID11JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
EWLEH 

( J I [] 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. · 
CINEE 
1 

I CI I I
tENVELE I 

WHAT TH~ WIL-D­C.ATT~R5 GOT

IJ I I I 
WH~N TH!?Y HIT 
www.jumble.com 
A GUSH~!<.. 
DULSHO 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as

I ( J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer: rI I I ] " ( I I I I ]" 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: DOWNY POISE ENCORE THORAXYesterday's 
Answer: The tycoons visited the luxury yacht because it was -"SEE" WORTHY 
EUGENIA LAST 
HoRoscoPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Victoria Beckham, 31: Jennifer Garner. 33: Liz Phair. 38: Olivia Hussey. 54 
Happy Birthday: You have an ohligation to yourself to follow through with your plans. Stop talking ahout what you want to do and start to take action. You have to stop relying on everyone else lo make it happen and start to do your own legwork. Don't let these trials and tribulations stand in your way. Your numbers arc 2. 21. 23. 27,36.40 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Pick and choose what you want to do today. Love or socialiLing will hring you the most satisfaction. A creative idea you have could tum into a profitable venture if you form a partnership. ***** TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Don't get upset if you don't get your way today. Take the opportunily to do something by yourself. The more you accomplish on your own. the !(reatet the fulfillment will he in the end. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone may he keeping something from you. hut you shouldn't worry. It's probably a surprise. Short trips will hring hack memories. Call someone you miss from your past. **** CANCER (June 21-.July 22): Clear up paperwork so you can start new projects. Follow the urge to try doing something totally different wilh your life. Check out your options and what you must do to move in a new direction. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will be in demand today. Do things you enjoy and you will attract some interesting new friends. Secret love affairs will he tempting. but spare yollrself the grief. *** · VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Not everything will he laid out on the tahle for you. Someone is likely to be secretive ahout what he or she is doing. By getting involved in a creative hobhy, you will open doors to a whole new circle of friends. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A joint venture will grah your interest. Take the lime to carefully plan. A partnership looks favorable as long as you establish who is going to be responsihle for what. Organization and good planning are needed to he successful. 
**** 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Be careful what you wish for and what you promise 
today. You may end up getting stuck with the short end of the stick. Look out for your 
own interests. Now is not the time to form a partnership. ** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will he looking for fun. excitement and 
adventure today. The more you do to challenge yourself, lhe better. Physical activity 
should he high on your to-do list. Love is in a high cycle. ***** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Do something to make your living quarters or 
arrangements more suitahle to your needs. If you have fell cramped or uncomfortahle, 
it may he time to make a move. Devote some time to the ones you love. *** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Do things with people who have similar interests. 
and you will develop strong and lasting friendships. Ask for assistance and favors will 
be granted. Take care of your personal ohligations. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Check out a sports facility or a group that will help 
you gel or stay in shape. By heing active, you will not only meet new people hut a 
job opportunity may arise as well. Get moving in a positive direction. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are bright, bold and ready to take on whatever comes your way. ­You have a huilt-in sense of where you want to be and what you want to do. You arc determined to do things your own way and can be stuhbom when faced with opposition. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun. eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 
--~-----------------------­
····· 
-
... 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source ofinformation on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have tound The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please go to \VW\\.ndsmcobserver.com/subscription~ and sign up to receive The Observer in your home. 
-=+=+:±,.of 


THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, April 18, 2007 
page 28 
ND WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Vandy up next for red-hot laxers 
By MICHAEL BRYAN SportS Writer 
The No. 11 Notre Dame women's lacrosse team has defeated six ranked teams this season, and will look to add a seventh victim to its record today at No. 15 Vanderbilt. The Commodores 

-will host the last away game of the year for the Irish in Nashville at 4 p.m. The Commodores (9-4), currently in second place in the American Lacrosse Conference, have met their high preseason expectations this year. But they've had mixed results against top competition, dropping three 
-
of their four matches to high ranked teams. Vanderbilt suffered blowouts against No. 1 Northwestern and No. 4 Duke but upset No. 6 Penn State. 
Vanderbilt will look to avenge last year's heart­breaking 12-11 defeat in South Bend. A .lillian Byers goal with just 1H seconds lel't in the game gave the Irish the victory. 
Vanderbilt is led oiTensivo­ly by junior Margie Curran and senior Kendall Thrift. Curran leads the Commodores in points with 37 goals and 13 assists, and 
see VANDY/page 26 


ND SOFTBALL 
Big bats help Irish take twin billing 

BASEBALL 
Jeremy Barnes scores game-wznnzng run to cap Irish comeback 
By CHRIS KHOREY SportS Editor 
Irish second baseman Jeremy Barnes s.aw the ball squirt past
C. Toledo catcher Sean Boley and took off as fast as he could for home plate. Barnes slid safely across to give Notre Dame an 8-7 come-from­behind. win in a thriller against the Rockets Tuesday at Frank Eck Stadium. "I was proud of our guys tonight," Irish coach Dave Schrage said. Having watching a 7-5 lead slip away in the ninth due in part to his own error, Barnes led off the bottom of the inning with a dou­ble, took third on a sacrifice bunt and scored on the wild pitch to give Notre Dame the win. The Irish (18-17, 4-7 Big East) have won five of their last six games. "This is a momentum creating win," a happy Barnes said after the game. 
But Barnes was almost the goat rather than the hero. Having already blown a 5-0 
see COMEBACK/page 24 

Wild night 
r.:<:>ADI~:IThc Observer 

Irish shortstop Brett Lilley, center, celebrates with his teammates after scoring in Notre Dame's 8-7 comeback victory over Toledo Tuesday. 
BooKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Ejections force 4-on-4 second half 
By JAY WADE and DAN MALOOF Sports Writers 

Team 380 emerged victorious in an hour-and-a-half long game marked by aggressive play and intense heckling after One and Done could not get physical enough to pull out the win. 
Both teams had trouble get­ting into a rhythm on offense because of the constant loose balls throughout the game. Early in the first half, 380's Chris Luken dove for a ball on the hardtop, hurting both his arm and his back on the play. While the game was stopped, 380's grit was personified through its coach, Bryan Hayes, who kept yelling, "Beauty is pain!" to his players. 
The game continued with an elevated physical pace, result­ing in a player from each team being ejected late in the first half after a scuffie over a loose rebound. 
"[380's Austin Dwyer] got a rebound and I was going for the jumpball," Team Done's Patrick 
see BOOKSTORE/page 25 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame tacked on two more wins in a doubleheader Tuesday afternoon against Western Michigan to boost its reeord to 22-14 on the season. The Broneos dropped to 13-16 following Tuesday's games. 
The Irish wasted no time in the first game opening up a siz­able lead as they put up five runs in the bottom of the first inning. In the following inning, they pounded out three more to put the game out of reach for Western Michigan. 
"lA good start) makes us or breaks us," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "It's interesting how the momentum can just carry over the whole way when you jump on them early." 
The offensive onslaught was sparked both times by senior center fielder Stephanie Brown, 
see TWO/page 26 






