
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
In Moreau, Jenkins sees ND's values 
Congregation's founder, who once clashed with Sarin, to be beatified this weekend in France 
By MADDIE HANNA 
News Writer 
University President Fatber John Jenkins took his top-rank­ing administrators to France this week for Saturday's beatification of Father Basil Moreau, but the point, he said, isn't that the man indirectly responsible for Notre Dame's existence is one step doser to sainthood. 
Instead, Jenkins said Monday, it's a reminder of what the Congregation of Holy Cross founder stood for -and what Notre Dame stands for today. 
"I think there's nothing that defines Notre Dame more power­fully than that sense of commu­nity ... and the kind of ideal that we as teachers strive for, and I think students expect, is try to educate the whole person -try to give the highest level of intel­lectual learning, but also to live a worthy life," Jenkins said. "All those are characteristics of Moreau, and I don't think one even has to be Catholic to say, 'Yeah, that's who we are, I do feel part of that.' 

"And I hope that's what people celebrate in these coming days." 
Moreau in the 1830s formed what later became the Congregation of Holy Cross and sent several members, including Father Edward Sorin, to the U.S. a few years later. In 1842, Sorin founded Notre Dame. 
"I believe that even though Sorin founded the University, I think Moreau's vision influenced Sorin and influenced Notre Dame," Jenkins said. "So in a way, the life we live and kind of the place we are emanates from this person and his vision." 
The two priests "had clashes," Jenkins said -Moreau later wanted to send Sorin on a mis­sion to Bangladesh, but Sorin resisted, thinking it would under­mine his work at Notre Dame ­but their strengths were comple­mentary. 
"I think they were both strong personalities, and in many ways, I believe, they needed one anothc er," Jenkins said. "Because they were very different personalities. Moreau was very prayerful, and generous to people who were having trouble, a very compas­sionate person of strong will. 

"Sorin was more of an entre­preneur, he was always kind of opening missions and finding new opportunities. And I think in a way, it's the two of them that shaped Notre Dame." 
Notre Dame has kept its shape 
see MOREAU/page 4 

Eyes on Africa helps orphanage 
Sophomore Jeff Lakusta begins foundation to raise money for South African children 
By KATE McCLELLAND 
News Writer 
When sophomore Jeff Lakusta returned from a serv­ice trip working in a South African orphanage this sum­mer, he decided to found a nonprofit group called the Eyes on Africa Foundation to c:ontinue to support the chil­dren through donations. 
"I was really touched by my time there," Lakusta said, "and I was determined not to forget. ... So I contacted people from the trip and friends from home and began to set up the foun­dation." 
The orphanage, Othandweni, is located in the township of Soweto. About 90 children cur­rently live there, including 30 infants. The long waiting list has caused orphaned children to rely on each other until they get a spot. 
"While waiting for a place in the orphanage, the kids form families with one another ­you'll find a 15-year-old watching out for several other kids and ... responsible for bot­tle feeding a baby. Can you imagine doing that at 15?" Lakusta said. 
He said he was struck by the children's lack of basic neces­sities in the orphanage. ­
"We were bringing them sim­ple things -a washer, dryer, 
see AFRICAlpage 4 


Author Sf>eaks to College vvon1en 
Mireille Guiliano compares French, American eating habits 
By KRISTEN EDELEN 
News Writer 
Mireille Guiliano, author of the international best-seller "French Women Don't Get Fat: The Secret of Eating for Pleasure" spoke Saint Mary's Wednesday. 
Guiliano. who has appeared on many national televisi,on shows, including "The Oprah Winfrey Show" and "Dateline," warned students about the temptations that exist in the dining halls in the Little Theater of Moreau Center for the Arts. 
She advised students to be wary of the pizza bar 
see AUTHOR/page 6 


NDSMCOBSERVERCOM 


'Priest' dupes fans, security 
Imposter sneaks on football field 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
Associate News Editor 
A man posing as a priest fooled football fans and security personnel Sept. 1 when he and his two-man camera crew marched into Notre Dame Stadium -and onto the field -without cre­dentials as an unauthorized prank during the Georgia Tech season opener. 
Assistant Vice President for News and Information Dennis Brown said Wednesday the man, dressed in a black outfit and a white clerical collar, joined the marching band during its pre-game concert at Bond Hall and led the procession to the stadium's entrance. There, the man and his two assistants eluded security personnel, walking down the tunnel until they were on the field. 
Once there, Brown said, the man continued his impersonation and started conducting interviews on the sidelines until the players rushed onto the field. He greeted them with words of encouragement. 
"It looked like he was a Catholic priest and part of a legitimate NBC crew video-
see DUPE/page 4 


NDFS accounts for student allergies 
By MEG MIRSHAK 
News Writer 
For students with special dietary needs due to food aller­gies and autoimmune disorders, some foods in Notre Dame din­ing halls can be potentially life threatening. 
Well aware of these dangers, Notre Dame Food Services (NDFS) offers customized meal plans for students. 
Most requests for these serv­ices come from students with soy, dairy and peanut allergies, and those who require gluten­free diets, said Jocelyn Antonelli, manager of nutrition and safety for NDFS. 
Antonelli works with dining hall managers and chefs to help coordinate meals for about 20 students with food allergies. 
Two to three students per year, especially those with life­threatening allergies, have meals specially prepared for them. Antonelli makes about three shopping trips a week to buy specialty foods for the stu­dents' meals. Students who have a meal plan do not pay any extra costs for these servic­es. These students pick up their meals directly from the chef. 
This year a student has requested Kosher meals, Antonelli said. The University 
see NDFS/page 3 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, September 13, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Joys of life 

off campus 
From llw moment I signed the 
leaso, I had IH~nn counting down 
llw days until I was frHe from 
dorm rules and in tlw land of off 
campus housing. 
Cast.lo Point. Kate Fenlon my apartment 
Photographer
of choice, has 
served as a saf'n 
haven for a f'un and exciting sen­
ior year or eollnge. 
Don't get me wrong, the dorms 
wore grnat freshmen and sopho­
moro year while getting to know 
peopln and making new friends. 
llownver. eomn junior year I 
was roady for a bit more free­
dom. 
I wanted to enjoy such frills as 
playing music and oven vacuum­
ing after 10 p.m. when quiet 
hours were strictly enforced. 
Furthnr. the thought of living in 
ono room with four pnople, four 
alarm clocks and four different 
sdwdulos no longer appealed to 
Ill (l • 
Thus. tho fnwdoms of an apart­
mont coupled with a living room, 
kitchnn, and soparate bedrooms 
soundod like tho idnal situation. 
1\vnn from a logistical stand­
point, Cast.lo Point is simpler. 
Moving in was a breeze. No 
morn batlling hundrnds of fresh­
men familios for tho elevator or 
climbing what fnlt like thousands 
of stnps to tlw top rloor to move 
in. no sir. 
Instead. I dim bed a moasly 10 
stairs and was at my apartment. 
Arguably, tlw most advanta­
geous aspect of tho of'l' campus 
lifestyle is the lavish closet space 
toppod oiT by my own bathroom. 
Additionally, living oiT campus has serv1HI to teach us valuable donwstie skills, as we are now forced to do our own cooking, elnaning, ironing and most importantly, we must pay our own bills. 
Those realities prepare us for life after sehool when classes are replaced with a 9 to 5 job. 
Now for the good stuff. While living off campus provides many valuable life lessons, it has its "college" moments as well. 
When my alarm sounds at 8 
a.m. I no longer feel the pressure to get out of bed and join the mass of girls walking from their dorms to dassroom buildings. 
Yes, your parents' concerns are logitimate; it is considerably eas­ior to say "no" to elass when liv­ing ofT campus. 
lnstnad of going to class I wake up and freely use my TOASTER to toast something for breakfast, just hoeause I can. 
Why not mix a little margarita with my entirely legal blender whiln I'm at it'? 
If, by chanc:e, a friend of the opposite sex is over past mid­night on a weeknight, he does not have to snoak into a closet or jump out of a window at the sound of a nearby HA. 
Yes, ofT campus housing offers a variety of the simple joys in I ife. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not. necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Kate Fenlon at kfenloO I @saintrnarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due ro an editing error, the Sept. 12 article "Jenkins: Undergrad research essential to goals," stared that the Spirit of Noue Dame fundraising campaign had a $1 billion goal. The goal of the campaign is to raise $1.5 billion. The Observer regrets this error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD OPEN YOUR OWN BUSINESS, WHAT WOULD IT BE AND WHY? 







Santiago Sanchez  Liz Marren  Emily Hutchens  Amanda Wilson  Matt Quering  
freshman Dillon  sophomore Cavanaugh  freshman P.E.  freshman P.E.  junior Alumni  
"An engineering firm -it's what I like."  ':4 squirrel extermination emporium,  ':4 candy shot, so I could always have  "The world's largest bookstore. "  "NDffj~ -Notre Dame Female Enhancement."  

because I need candy." to put them in their place. " 
Man injects love interest with blood 
PHNOM PENH, Cambodia -A Cambodian man was arrested after injecting a woman with his own blood in a bizarre scheme to win her affections, police said Wednesday. 
The 22-year-old man is being held by police for allegedly causing injury to a 21-year-old woman, said Tan Sophal, a police officer in Battambang province where the attack occurred. It is about 155 miles northwest of the capital, Phnom Penh. 
The man allegedly injected a syringe of his blood into the woman's rib cage and waist 


"He put the dog up on his surfboard, and the dog rode the surfboard in to shore," said Royce Rodgers, an ofl'­duty Muskegon Heights police officer who witnessed the rescue. As the dog crouched on the board, Smolenski held on from the water, fighting large waves and a strong current all the way to shore. 
"I've watched the dog about a million times," said Smolenski, of Grand Haven. "He barks at the waves and then jumps back when they wash up on the pier." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

as she walked home from school, Tan Sophal said. 
The assailant fell in love with the woman when the two were classmates in 2004, Tan Sophal said. 
Surfer rescues dog swept off Mich. pier 
GRAND HAVEN, Mich. ­A surfer rode a wave on hi'i stomach to rescue a strug­gling dog that had been swept off a pier and into Lake Michigan by a wave. 
Matt Smolenski, 25, said he grabbed the pooch's collar just as the exhausted, black­and-brown mixed breed stopped dog-paddling on Tuesday. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY c::: 
LLI 
::J: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
<t 
(.) 



....I 0 HIGH 80 71 HIGH 73 HIGH LOW 52 48 LOW 45 LOW 


IN BRIEF 
Actors from the London Stage will present "Macbeth" at 7:30 p.m. tonight and Friday at Washington Hall. Tickets can be purchased by calling (574) 631-2HOO. 
Acappella sensation Toxic Audio will perform at the Debartolo Performings Arts Center tonight at 7:30 p.m. Tickets arc $15 for students, $30 faculty members and seniors and $:{5 for the gen­eral public. 

The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will show tlw movie "Sunshine" Friday at 7 and 10 p.m. Tickets are $:{ for students. 
The Notre name women's soccer team will play Princeton in the ND Inn at Saint Mary's Classic Friday at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
The Snite Museum of Art will host a reception for its fall exhibitions on Sunday from 2-4 p.m. Various talks about each exhibition will begin at 3 p.m. The event is free and open to the public. 
Author Ann Cummins will read from her latest work, "Yellowcake," Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Hospitality Room in Reekers. 
The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will show the movie "A Decent Factory" Wednesday at 7 p.m. 
To submit information to he included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


75 57 

Atlanta 83 I 68 Boston 70 I 54 Chicago 78 I 47 Denver 76 I 52 Houston 86 I 73 Los Angeles 81 I 64 Minneapolis 69 I 54 New York 75 I 56 Philadelphia 78 I 55 Phoenix 106 I 83 Seattle 76 I 52 St. Louis 83 I 53 Tampa 91 I 76 Washington 81 I 59 
Thursday, September 13 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 


NDFS 
continued from page 1



Leaders reiterate yearly goals 
partnered with a Jewish syna­gogue to prepare the meals, whieh the student will pick up

Senators say they plan to .address increase in course packet prices 
in the dining halls. 
"By KAITLYNN RIELY 
Assistant News Editor 
Senate committee chairs informed senators of projects underway for this year ­ineluding an investigation of inereased course packet prices -when Student Senate recon­vened Wednesday after a week ofT. 
Academic Affairs chair Carol Hendrickson will direct her com­mittee in several projects, including one to investigate the reason for the jump in the price of eourse packets this year. 
In past years, copy shops around campus sold the course paekets, but this year, the Hammes Bookstore took over. I Iendrickson said some students have com­plained about 

increased "Apparently a lot ofmy said. 
prices. colleagues had students Hendrickson The reason also expressed
come to them and
for the price interest in aid­increase, wanted to know why ing University Hendrickson I course packets] are so President said, is beeause Father John
expensive.
the Bookstore is Jenkins' mis­selling the sion to involve paekets for a Thomas Noble more under­profit. Faculty Senate.liasion graduates in 
"Beeause the research. course packets Jenkins deliv­are being sold through the ered an address to faculty mem­Bookstore for a small profit, the bers Tuesday and foeused on Bookstore has to enforee copy­undergraduate involvement in right rules that, if the course research as a dimension of his paekets weren't be sold for a overall goal to transform Notre profit, we wouldn't have to abide Dame into a premier research by the same rules," she said. university. 
Course packet sellers in Decio Hendrickson said she also and LaFortune thought selling planned to continue working on all packets out of the Bookstore an initiative explored by her would be preferred by students, predecessor -to add docks to IIP,ndrickson said, because it classrooms in O'Shaughnessy would be "one-stop shopping" and students would have the option to charge the costs to their student accounts. 
Hendrickson said her commit­tee will study whether students prefer one-stop shopping and the option to charge the pur­chase to a student aeeount over eheaper priees. 
History professor Thomas Noble, the Faculty Senate liai­son, said he would be interested in bringing this issue up at the next Faculty Senate meeting. 
"Apparently a lot of my col­leagues had students come to them and wanted to know why these things are so expensive," Noble said. He called the issue a "common interest" for faculty members and students. 
"There is no reason why you 
guys ought to 
get gouged," he 

Capital One, aFortune 500 company, is cha!lengtn~l the status quo ofJiJi~n~lal seNi<:es, bdHding'cm 9n extraordi(Jq('y }\?P~ recorp of · industry·leading innovation and growth, We ?r~·5eiilrching -for top Ec ----Mang:~gemei:lf. lridustfial Manager'rlE!fit'~M8fX~coQi'ltim:i major$ to fill positions within'our business lines, 

Join us on campus to learn more about the Capital One expefieri~¢ ~fjq t;Urrent employmenfqpportunities: 
iii !iii'\. ( .•..­
• Business Analyst l>evelopment Program 
• Data Analyst Rotation Program 
• Financial Analyst lllotation Program 
•• 4J .......... ,. ••••••••• •·•:·~: ...•. ·.~.·· 
A specific concern for stu­and Hayes-Healy. 
dents with peanut allergies, Residence Life ehair Mariana 
like junior Jessica Bruno and Montes Ilsted a seven-part plan 
freshman Sarah Skillen, is the for her committee to focus on 
cross-contamination that can this year. Montes said she wants 
happen on the serving lines. to make Domer Dollars an 
As a result, they have learned option to use off campus at 
to avoid certain foods that can places like Roceo's Pizza. 
contain peanut products. She shared a list of other com­
Bruno has a severe allergy mittee goals: Improve dining hall 
to peanuts and although she quality by using locally grown 
does not have meals specially food, add a computer and print­
prepared for her, she is very ing cluster to the Jordan Hall of 
conscious about what" she eats Science, make laundry in the 
in the dining hall. dorms free, expand workout 
"When in doubt, I avoid it," facilities to all the residence 
she said. halls, help professors use iTunes 
Some foods Bruno avoids to make lectures downloadable 
include baked goods, pesto as podcasts, and encourage 
sauce and some cooking oils. Notre Dame Security/Police to 
She said she misses frozen both send cmt e-mails reminding 
yogurt, which she used to eat students of tickets and install a 
before dining halls switched to safety call station near the D6 
the YoCream brand, which is parking lot. 
made in a factory that processes peanuts. 
In other Senate news: 
If a worker at Subway uses 
+ Student government has 
a glove to pick up a cookie and made progress toward starting a 
then uses the same glove to coalition composed of students 
make Bruno's sandwich, she from Notre Dame and other area 
could have an allergic reae­schools as well University and 
tion, she said. When she city representatives, said student 
notices a problem with cross­body president Liz Brown. 
contamination, she notifies Brown said she hoped the 
Antonelli. coalition would meet for the first 
"NDFS is very responsive," time in the next few weeks. 
she said. 
+ Sexual Assault Awareness 
Bruno has never had to use Week, organized by the Student 
the three EpiPens she carries Senate Gender Relations com­
in case she should have an mittee, will take place the week 
allergic reaetion on eampus. of Nov. 12-16 to coincide with 
Skillen's allergy is less the showing of Loyal Daughters. 
severe. She stieks with simple+ O'Neill senator Matthew 
foods in the dining hall and Malloy was elected to serve as 
makes sure to check the the student liaison to Faculty 
ingredients. She also avoids Senate. 
baked goods, as well as Chinese food. Freshman Michelle Gaseor Contact Kaitlynn Riely at 
has an autoimmune disorder kriely@nd.edu 
called Celiac Disease which 
FOH

·too· 
limits her diet to gluten-free foods. She cannot eat wheat, barley, oats or rye. Avoiding these foods is difficult for Gaseor in the dining hall, she said, because of the high pos­sibility of cross-contamination. 
"Walking into the dining hall for the first time, I saw wheat everywhere," Gaesor said. "It was definitely frightening." 
During the first week of school, Gaseor met with Antonelli to plan a unique menu to fit her needs with prepared meals in South Dining Hall. She had to submit a schedule 
of when she wanted to pick up her meals. If she wanted to eat at North Dining Hall, Gaseor could have it arranged but ultimately said she does not like to be bothered by it. 
It was complicated at first, Gaseor said, but the chefs made it easier for her to eat with her friends in the dining hall. 
"The chefs are pretty flexi­ble, if you let them know ahead of time," she said. 
It is challenging for Gaseor to eat at Reekers because she cannot trust that her food will be gluten-free. She is familiar with Starbuck's ingredients, however, and goes there often. 
Currently, NDFS is consider­ing creating a gluten-free area in North Dining Hall. However, there are still complications in eliminating cross-contamina­tion from other students' food, Antonelli said. 
"Notre Dame has never said no," Antonelli said. "We find a way." 
The serviees offered to stu­dents with special dietary needs help to ensure students get the full college experience, Antonelli said. 
"It makes Notre Dame unique," Antonelli said. "We believe strongly about eating together as a community." 
Contact Meg Mirshak at mmirshak@nd.edu 

COMPANIESg Employers for 
New Grads"

TO WORK FOR C'>J 
..... . 
·i · ·.®


apt.a ··. · 
·c····--·• 


10ne 
magazine as one of the "20 Great 
-··-·-­

---____.~ 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 13, 2007 
Africa 
continued from page 1 

socks -things that we lin the 
U.S.I take cornplntely for grantnd," lw said. 
Othandweni -which moans "place of love" -is the most under-funded orphanage in all of South Africa, J.akusta said, a fact tho foundation hopes to d1angn. 
"We want to make a sustain­able difTernnce, not just giving thorn meals, but making a last­involved in Notre Dame's Africa Week. In the spring, the group plans to coordinate an event for all schools with Eyes on Africa councils -possibly a live-kilometer run. 
For Lakusta, the project is also a continuation of his research. llis trip to South Africa with the International Seholar Laureate Program Delegation on Medicine was also part of the undergraduate research on IIIV/AIDS that he is conducting under the instruction of Father James Foster, associate professional 
ing improve­ment in their lives." I.itkusta said. 
The founda­lion 's goal is to build a nnw orphanage with funds raised by col­lngt~ studnn ts on campusr~s worldwide. Campus roor­dinators and r·. o unci Is are currrmlly bning 

snt up at snvr>ml universities in addition to Notre Dame, trying to raise awareness with posters and T-shirts. 
Hight now. J.akusta said. 1\yns on Africa hopes to be 
YouTube until Tuesday, when it was pulled off. Brown said
Dupe 

his office was not responsi­continued from page 1 ble for the video's YouTube --------------deletion. 
taping the band," Brown said. "Thn security person­nnl at the north entrance made an honest mistake making this assumption and t~wy ~lidn't eheek for creden­tHtls. . 
Brown said tho individual's 1:rew US!HI a eamora with NBC logos on it. 
"That's why tho stadium sneurity staff wasn't as dili­gnnt as thny would normally bn in terms of checking ere­dentials," Brown said. 
The third man in the crew was holding a boom mien>­
phonn, hn said. On Snpt. 4, a University ofl'i­eial rneeived an n-mail from tho pranksters, which was for­wardod to Brown's offiec. 

lin said thn impersonator nxplainnd tho prank to tlw Univnrsity and asknd for 
speeialist of pre­professional"We want to make a studies. sustainable Lakusta said Foster has
difference, 1zotjust 
helped greatly
gioing them meals, but with the devel­making a lasting opment of the 
foundation.

improvement in their 
"lie has put
lives." 
me in eontaet with difl'erent Jeff Lakusta groups of peo­ple, other pro­
founder 
fessors, that are
Eyes on Africa Foundation 
helping me learn what 
nxaetly I want to do to help and the best ways to make a lasting difference," he said. "lie has also helped me find opportunities to speak about my experience, and the more I 
II e also refused to 
rass that per­
son and 

expose that person to 
"We have [security] procedures in place. They just weren't followed in this particular instance." 
Dennis Brown Assistant Vice Presid~nt for News and Information 
ridicule Brown said. 

A "Tonight Show" spokes­woman told The South Bend 
Tribune  the  
man  was  not  
working  on  

NBC's behalf and that the Len o Program does not accept
unsolicited material. 
Notre Damn's pnrmission to submit thn video to "The 
Tonight  Show  with  Jay  
I.nno."  Brown denied  the  
man's rnquest.  

The video was, however, availabln to users on 

HIS WEEK IN 

On Sept. 2, The Observer reeeived a fax explaining the prank and announcing its possible transmission during "The Tonight Show." 
The fax said the man wore a priest's garb and marched 
learn, the better I can explain it to others when I speak to them." 
The Eyes on Africa Foundation hopes to takes its message off campus as well by contaeting organizations, pub­lications and celebrities. 
The organization is actively trying to contaet Time maga­zine, the Gates Foundation and celebrities like . Denzel Washington and Forest Whitaker -not only for mone­tary donations, Lakusta said, but also for displays of sup­port. 
"We're sending Polaroids, Eyes on Africa T-shirts and let­ters explaining our cause to as many eelebrities as we can, in the hopes that they will simply takn a pieture of themselves in thn T-shirt and send it back to us as a show of support for Othandwcni," Lakusta said. 
lie wants the childron's sto­ries to impact other students as mueh as they did him. 
"I just want them to under­stand how lueky and blessed we are here," Lakusta said, "to live in the United States and go to Notre Dame. We have a 
Moreau 
continued from page 1 

thanks to the Holy Cross com­munity, Dillon rector Father Paul Doyle said. 
"I think religious eommuni­ties provide a continuity for institution, be it a hospital, or a sehool," he said. 
About 65 Holy Cross broth­ers and priests work at the University, said Father Charles Kohlerman, religious superior at the lloly Cross House. 
What those Holy Cross reli­gious also provide, Doyle said, is a "prophetic voiee." 
"You've got a !Father Theodore) llesburgh who was hnad of the [U.S. Civil! Hights Commission, you know?" he said. "That's a prntty big deal, for minority people, for the entire country, lllesburghl standing arm in arm with Martin Luther King ... when not many Catholie people wern saying that." 
Holy Cross priests like llesburgh, a former University president, Doyle said, can "step founded schools like Emory and Duke that have since lost most of their distinetive reli­gious character -"great uni­versities," he said, "but no reli­gious community to sustain that impetus." 
If Holy Cross were gone, "them would have to be some­one around hern who could consistently point to Jesus," Doyle said. "It just did not work in the ease of the othnr great education institutions in this country." 
During his two years as pres­ident, Jenkins has frequently spoken of tho need to protnet and maintain the University's Catholic eharaeter. Ile donsn't see the influence of Moreau ­or I loly Cross -fading any­Limn soon. 
'Through the dncades Notre Dame has existed, evrm though !Moreau I passed away, that spirit of zealous servic.n is still present, that passion to care for people," Jenkins said. "I believe it comes from Morr~au's mission, and I also think it's through Father Mornau pray­ing for us that we sustain that." 

moral obligation to make a dif­
back and assess things more ferenee, and it starts with one 
easily than the average bear." Contact Maddie Hanna at person -you." 
lie pointed to Methodist-mhannal@nd.edu 
Contact Kate McClelland at 
mmclell@nd.edu 
Did You Know? 

release the ''The bottom line is champion prankster's that this was a today" sign and 
ne Me"coz.a Co lege of P.usiness 
name or say if greet the play­
P'-:!S~'!t::;

benign incident that 
the man was ers as they affiliated with serves as a valuable rushed onto the tho University. wake-up call for field, aceord ing 
" W e ' v e to the fax.
stadium personnel." 
doeided not to Brown said release the field eredentials person's name Dennis Brown or pre-game be c au s e it Assistant Vice President field passes are would em bar-for News and Information required to 
* ::'!111-: .n·: K1'· ..,-: ~ .v.~~> ,.o 11 s.:o: :-.1 "'. tl'o;· 1k1it v:' ~t:n:•!: 
with the band, blessing spec­
:,.~~(l"l.i n•>!l in:;<,n .ct'l 'JJI)\:.:Iil~r, tJ>i::t·h.i (<:t"o:-;,i-:;7 tators and cheering for the 
*:.::h n2' .J:hi~·;ed ·~ :::.zr..:cr.t ~" th.:: ·t-•::r d .zco"lc.frr.,.. ~n
Irish along the way. The man 
-:: U'-::1':-si·-s pcr,·..~r ,~.s·· ti b:::sis. 1n 220,. :st::,-;:oo t·-::. r.h!
then made his way into the 
.ntz..j !:.Jtcs~·i

stadium to pose with the team's signa­
* 11~ ·;,·;~;~" 7(1(;.:; ~~ d 'OiO::.~ Ci 111 r.-r:•I;~ ..NII~d 1""<1 lor· .:.•:l'J~: ture "Play like a 
~; r ,·11~ :i c.1: :o:~! <.::• :,;·.-,·u, h ·;,-.:.u hJ dtJ 1 ,., ~<.: ·o· cil ~ 
have aecess to 
these places. The three men did not have either type of clearance. 
However, Brown said, the usher's failure to check their credentials was an isolated incident and should not prompt questions about the stadium's security proce­dures. 
"We have [security] proce­dures in place. They just weren't followed in this par­ticular instance." Brown said. "The bottom line is that this was a benign incident that serves as a valuable wake-up call for the stadi­um's security personnel. Other than that, no changes need to be made." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 13, 2007 CoMPILED FR01\1 TI-lE OBSERVERS WIRE SERVlCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Putin chooses obscure prime minister 
MOSCOW -President Vladimir Putin chose a lit­tle-known government otlkial to become Russia's new prime minister Wednesday, a surprise move that set oil' fevered speculation over whether loyal technocrat Viktor Zubkov wa~; being groomed to replace Putin next spring. 
The move came a few hours after Putin dissolved the Cabinet of his long-serving prime minister, Mikhail Fradkov, saying he needed to appoint a gov­ernment better suited to the election campaign and to "prepare the cmmtry" for life after the elections. 
The nomination of Zubkov, who has overseen investigations into suspicious financial transactions, caught much of the political elite off guard, whieh appearnd to be Putin's intention. 
Three arrested for al-Qaida threats 
VIENNA-Two men and a woman with suspect­ed eontael'i to al-Qaida were arrested Wednesday in eonneetion with an online vide-o threat by Islamie militanL'i against Austria and Germany in March, officials said Wednesday. 
Interior Minister Guenther Platter said the three -all seeond-generation Austrian citizens with Arab origins -were between 20 and 26. He said they were believed to have contacts to al-Qaida and that one of the men was suspected of being the ere­ator of tho video. The other man was suspected of eontributing to it, he said. 
"At no point was a direct threat against Austria discernible," Platter told reporters. Erik Buxbaum, the nation's general manager filr public security, said: "We had no indication that a concrete terror attack in Austria or elsewhere with participation of thPsP pnopiP was planned." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Torturers to face kidnapping charges 
BIG CHEEK -Authorities decided Wednesday not to pursue hate crime charges in the kidnapping and weeklong tor­ture of a black woman, instead going after the suspects, who are white, on state charges that carry stiffer penalties. 
While federal civil rights or state hate crime eharges remain an option, a state kid­napping count that carries a sentence of up to life in prison will provide the best chance for suecessful prosecution, officials said. 
"As a practical matter, sentenced to life, what else can be done?'' U.S. Attorney Charles T. Miller told The Associated Press. 
Six people face charges, including kidnap­ping, sexual assault and lying to police in the torture of Megan Williams, 20, at a remote hillside home in Big Creek. 
Army opens new rehab for amputees 
WASHINGTON -War veterans who have lost a limb will relearn tasks like shooting a weapon, driving a car or rappelling down a cliff at a new rehabilitation center opening at Walter Heed Army Medieal Center. 
ThP 31.000 square-foot facility will offer state-of-the art physical therapy and occu­pational therapy, sports programs, virtual reality systems and training with prosthetics to lwlp troops regain a range of abilities, said Walter Reed spokeswoman Lori Calvillo. 
It opens Thursday at the Army's .hospital in northwest Washington, which has treated some 500 vets who have lost limbs or func­tion of a limb in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Cop killing teen got gun for protection 
SOUTII BEND -A tPenager who confessed to fatally shooting an ofT-duty South Bend police ofTie1~r during an attempted robbery said hn had bought the gun months earlier for protection. 
Jeffrny Finley made the statement Wednnsday dming a !waring to determine if lw should be senteneed to life in prison with­out paroln in the death of South Bend poliee Cpl. Seott SPverns. 
Finley, 1<J, told St. Joseph Superior Court .Judgn Boland Chamblne Jr. he didn't know why hn tried to rob Sf1verns and Michelle Beelby, the officer's girlfriend. Finley called it a spur-of-tlw-moment decision to rob the cou­ple. 

Democrats reject Petraeus's plan 
Senate leaders seek legislation to limit the mission of U.S. forces, but won't set war deadline 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -A day before President Bush's war address, Senate Democrats rejected a four-star general's recommendation to keep some 130,000 troops in Iraq through next summer and sought legislation that would limit the mission of U.S. forces. 
Their proposal was not expected to set a deadline to end the war, as many Democrats want, but restrict troops to narrow objectives: training Iraq's military and police, protecting U.S. assets and fighting terrorists, Democratic party officials told The Associated Press. 
The goal is to attract enough Republicans to break the 60-vote threshold in the Senate needed to end a filibuster. Democrats have proved unable to do that since they took control of Congress eight months ago. 
"I eall on the Senate Republicans to not walk lockstep as they have with the president for years in this war," Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., said at a news conference. "It's time to change. It's the president's war. At this point it also appears clear it's also the Senate Republicans' war." 
Democrats struggled to regain momentum in the Armed Serviees Committee. Pryor, D-Ark., on legislation Wis., John Kerry, D-Mass., war debate after two days of In a bold challenge to that would put Petraeus' and Barbara Boxer, D-Calif. testimony by Gen. David Petraeus' assessment, Reid recommendations into law. On the contrary, if the bill Petraeus, the top command­said the "situation on the Absent a new political cli­ordered the mission changed er in Iraq, and Ambassador ground in Iraq has not mate, Democrats are in a by a certain date, it might Ryan Crocker. changed at all." He later tough position: They can turn off Warner, Collins, 
Petraeus said the 30,000 aeknowledged gains in continue to insist on a hard­Coleman and other GOP troop buildup begun this Anbar province, "but it's like line position and fail, letting moderates. year had yielded some gains the big balloon that you push weeks go by without passing Reid deelined to discuss and needed more time. He on one side and it comes out anti-war legislation, or they details, saying only that recommended slowly revers­someplace else." soften their stance. Democrats would offer four ing the buildup, drawing Petraeus' assessment At issue in talks among to six amendments "to down about 5,500 soldiers inflamed Democrats, but Reid and Senate Democrats change the course of the and Marines by year's end assuaged many Republicans. was how far they should go war" when the Senate takes and aiming for a force of It did lead to tough questions in forcing a new mission. for up a defense bill next week. 130,000 next summer. from several Republican troops without losing sup­One probably would come 
Reid and other Democrats skeptics, including Sens. port from various political from Sen. Jim Webb, R-Va., said that proposal does not John Warner of Virginia and sides, according to congres­requiring that troops spend go far enough. Susan Collins of Maine, but sional aides familiar with the as much time home as they 
"It creates and provides an most GOP lawmakers said meeting in Reid's office. do in combat. illusion of change in an effort they were reluctant to If the legislation were non­Among the Republicans to take the wind out of the impose a firm timetable. binding and only urged Bush working with Reid and Levin sails of those of us who want Sen. Norm Coleman, R­to refocus the mission, the are Sens. Chuck Hagel, R­to truly change course in Minn., seen as another bill could lose support from Neb., and Gordon Smith, R­Iraq," said Sen. Carl Levin, potential swing vote, said he more liberal Democrats sueh Ore.; both long ago turned D-Mich., chairman of the was working with Sen. Mark as Sens. Russ Feingold, D-against the war. 
INDONESIA 

Earthquake kills 5, incites fear of tsunami 
town 80 miles from the quake's epicen­ties. 
Associated Press 
ter. "We think our neighborhood is high Suhardjono, a senior official with the 

JAKAHTA -A strong earthquake enough. God willing, if the water eomes, loeal meteorological agency who like shook Southeast Asia on Wednesday, it will not touch us here.... Everyone is most Indonesians uses only one name, collapsing buildings, killing at least five afraid." said a small tsunami, perhaps 3-feet people and injuring dozens in Indonesia. One witness, Budi Darmawan, said a high. struck the city of Padang about 20 Nations as far away as Afriea put three-story building near his office fell. miriL!tes after the quake. The Pacifie eoastal areas on alert, but only a small "I saw it with my own eyes," he told El Tsunami Warning Center also reported tsunami hit Sumatra. the island ravaged Shinta radio. a small wave. by the 2004 tsunami disaster. The 8.4-magnitude quake was felt in Most damage appeared to come from 
Frightened people flnd their homes at least four countries, with tall build­the ground-shaking of the tremor. 
and ran inland, fearing a repeat of the ings swaying in cities up to 1,200 miles Two people died when a ear dealer­
2004 earthquake and tsunami that away. The tremor was followed by a ship collapsed in Padang and another 
struek a dozen nations around the series of strong aftershocks, further rat­was killed by a fire that broke out on the 
Indian Ocean, killing an estimated tling residents. fourth floor of a damaged department 
230,000 people. Telephone lines and eleetrieity were store, a witness, Allin, said by phone. 
"Everyone is running out of their disrupted across a large swath of Excavation machinery was being used houses in every direetion," Wati Said Indonesia, making it difficult to get to search the rubble lor survivors, he reported by cell phone from Bengkulu, a information about damage and easual-said. 


.. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, September 13, 2007 
Paling habits of French eating burgers and pizza and however, when the lecture samn goes for other excellent women in comparison to gulping down monster sodas turned to chocolate because, foods Americans have come
French 
continued from page I 
for tho t\rts. 
Shn advised students to be wary of tlw pizza bar bneausn it's available on a daily basis. Guiliano is some­olin who knows about poor eating habits in eol11~ge and the "freshman 15", which she bolievns is morn aeeurately descrihml as tlw freshmen I 0 and tlw sophomore rive. 
Slw studied in the U.S. as a tnnnagnr and lnanwd to love chocolate chip cookies, brownies, and ice cream, she said. 
"As a stud!'nt I was living ofT things I eould nat on tho go, no greens and my only fruit intake canw in tho form of fruit tarts. By the tinw I went. honw for Christmas I had put on 20 pounds and looked VPry much like a littlP Midwlin tire," slw said. 
ller weight gain in tho United States as a young woman bocanw tlw inspira­tion for writing her book, which is both a nwmoir and a lifnstyln book. It includes suggestions for recipes and colorful a1wcdotns about thn 

American women. all while tapping away at a 
During her speech Guiliano laptop or flipping through a read one excerpt from her newspaper. book -a list of what French Guiliano said she could not women do in regards to detect pleasure on a single lifestyle choices: face. She stressed the impor­
"French women don't eat tance or finding pleasure in 
on the run, French women love to sit at a 
"French women don't
cafe and do 
nothing but eat on the run, 
enjoy the French women love to moment, 
sit at a cafr~ and do
French women 
walk every­nothing but enjoy the where they go, moment." they take the stairs, get 
Mireille Guiliano
dressed to take 
author
out the garbage, drink water all day 
food. The abili­ty to enjoy food and maintain a healthy weight is not genetic, but cultural, she said. 
"At a restau­rant, French women will order an appe­tizer, cheese, main course and wine," she s a i d "American 

long, love bread and would never dream of a life without carbs, think dining in is just as sexy as dining out, adore fashion, never diet, and French women don't get fat," she said. 
Guiliano described a scene she wit1111ssed in Chicago's O'Hare International Airport before appearing on Oprah. She saw herds of Americans from one terminal to the next 
women will order only a main eourse with maybe a diet soda and then snack through­out the day. French women don't snack." 
Guiliano then went on to explain the value of eating three meals a day with no snacking in between. She emphasized the importance of breakfast and said, "Coffee does not count." 
There was no scolding, apparently, French women love their chocolate, she said. 
In her book, Guiliano wrote that on average French women eat about 12 pounds of chocolate a year. 
"If you really enjoy some­thing, as I adore chocolate, there is a place for it in your life. But we cannot allow guilt-ridden scarfing. Only with cultivated pleasure can you enjoy chocolate -the 
to consider no-no's." 
Curious of how many peo­ple in the audience were chocolate lovers like herself, she asked for a show of hands. 
Guiliano later took ques­tions from the audinnce and signed books, which could be purchased for $25. 
Contact Kristen Edelen at kedeleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

THE NAME 16 KNOWN WORLDWIDE • , , HIS TALENT IS OBVIOUS! PART OF THE CASH F"AMILY MUSICAL HERITAGE! 
J>~uentine a,MuJieal '7rt6utt tb 




10iii'l 


FRIDAY SEPTEMBER, 28 8:00 PM 

410 South Main Street Elkhart, Indiana 46516 
• Tickets $18, $22, $27 
"This showicmy way of P"'Jin.gtribute 
• Order online at www.elcotheatre.com 
to m'J brother'11llfe and career. and to his great mucic" · Tommy Cuh 
• Or call800·294-8223, 574-293-4469 
Tammv Cash bH reconletloer 20 albums w1111 numerv•s biiS im:IBdlna. "$ll Withe Horsn, • Convenient free parking 
Rise aliiSblna. She MIJI AStranaar. 
IMilA Train Dna SIIIAwav." • Eat and drink at your seats 

ppearing: ; 
1 :" >r: 1~ I,/ rI l 
! I__ ;...1 \."··---·-/ t;;"ll:<iiK>:.Y <?<>J.X\!iR!.fiff.;:r.; •~.;__.. ~; '· ;~ fJir<' i p\p~..:; 
PORTION OF" PROCEEDS Tc BENEFIT ELKHART COUNTY WOMEN'S SHELTER 
A?~ s(!IU)i(.e ~~~ &~attt et~«Httt '7''W<)II4ffl ;v,.m:tamifv5en•im·lkhart.r<••'' 574-294-IF!f 

Israelis fearful at start of new year 
Associated l'ress 
.JEHUSt\I.EM -lsraBlis uslwred in thn .Jewish New Year on Wednesday evening amid nnw fears of war, fol­lowing fresh rocket attacks from Caza and reports of an Isnwli airstrike in Syria. 
At tlw same time. however. a l"lurry of diplomacy with ttu~ Palestinians has rPvived peacemaking for the first timn in S!WPn years. 
Tho Hosh Hashana holiday, followed I 0 days later by Yom Kippur-thn Day of AtoiHHnnnt -is traditionally a time for taking stock of spiritual and cultural values, and Jsnwlis wnn~ in thought­l"ul mood in the hours before thn start of tlw holiday, at sunset. 
At the lively open air M a h a 1111 Y e h u d a m a r k e t i n downtown JerusalP.m, where shoppers scrambled to stock 

up on food before the two­day holiday, some Israelis nxpressed discontent with the government and frustra­tion with the continued con­flict with the Palestinians. 
"I don't think you'll find any Israeli who's optimistic," said Ari Bouderhem, 47, owner of the Emil coffee shop. "It's not in our nature." 
Bourderhem said holiday business was better than last year, which was marred by an inconclusive summer war with the llezbollah militia in Lebanon. But he said he saw rough times ahead and "maybe a war." 
Jewish families eelebrate Hosh llashana by eating apples and honey and other traditional foods symbolizing sweetness and prosperity. The holiday this year falls on the same day as the start of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, so as Jews sit down for festive family din­ners, Muslim families will also gather for a special meal ahead of their month of sunrise-to-sunset fasting. 

In a routine measure, the Israeli military ordered a closure of Israel's borders with the West Bank and Gaza over the holiday, when paeked synagogues, beaches and parks in Israel are seen as being particularly vulner­able to attack. 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Thursday, September 13, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

-10.51
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,346 85 897 3,015,327,669 
AMEX >\tic NASDAQ 2,592.07 -5.40 NYSE S&P 500 1,471.56 +0.07 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 15,899.62 +102.02 FTSE 100 (London) 6,306.20 +25.50 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SUN MIROSYS INC (JAVA) -0.88 -0.05 5.66 S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +0.26 +0.38 147.49 SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIR!) +3.33 +0.11 3.42 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.02 +0.01 48.94 
Treasurie 
10-YEAR NOTE +1.01 +0.044 4.408 13-WEEK BILL -2.26 -0.090 3.900 30-YEAR BOND +0.84 +0.039 4.687 5-YEAR NOTE +1.11 +0.045 4.100 
Commoditi 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.68 78.50 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -0.40 721.10 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.40 87.23 
ExchangeRa 

YEN 114.3050 EURO 0.7198 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0377 BRffiSH POUND 0.4934 



IN BRIEF 

Paulson: Market turbulance takes time 
WASHINGTON -Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson said Wednesday that the turbulence that has hit fmancial markets will take some time to be resolved, especially in the area of subprime mort­gages. 
Paulson, speaking to officials of some of the coun­try's biggest financial firms, said the Bush adminis­tration was looking for their help in making sure subprime homeowners get assistance in dealing with sharply rising mortgage payments as their ini­tial low adjustable rate mortgages now reset to higher levels. 
"We have been experiencing market turbulence and as I have said for awhile, it is going to take some time to work its way out," Paulson told the finance officials at a meeting at the Treasury Department. "We are going to work our way through this, in some markets more quickly than others." 
Paulson said that "we are already seeing signs of improvements in a number of markets that have been experiencing stress." 
But he said it was going to "take longer to work through the problems in the subprime market," noting that there arc a number of loans in this mar­ket that arc scheduled to reset at sharply higher mortgage payments over the next two years. 
Dollar hits record low against euro 
LONDON -The U.S. dollar hit a record low against the curo and was lower most against other major currencies in European trading Wednesday. Gold rose. 
The euro hit an all-time high against the U.S. dol­lar on Wednesday, climbing as high as $1.3882 amid speculation that the Federal Reserve will soon cut interest rates before falling back. The previous record of $1.3852 was reached in July. 
The euro was quoted at $1.3882, up from $1.3832 late Tuesday in New York. Later, in midday trading in New York, the euro fetched $1.3895. 
Other dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Thesday, included 114.23 Japanese yen, down from 114.30; 1.1843 Swiss francs, down from 1.1893; and 1.0378 Canadian dollars, down from 1.0424. 
The British pound was quotedi at $2.0298, down from $2.0317. 
In midday New York trading, the dollar bought 

114.25 yen and 1.1850 Swiss francs, while the pound was worth $2.0307. 

AUSTRIA 

Oil prices on rise, hit $80 per barrel 
Energy Department says oil supplies tightening but demand remains strong 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Oil futures prices rose sharply Wednesday, briefly climb­ing above a record $80 a barrel after the govern­ment reported a surpris­ingly large drop in crude inventories and declines in gasoline supplies and refinery activity. 
The report from the. Energy Department's Energy Information Administration suggested oil supplies are tightening as demand remains strong. That's why oil prices are rising despite ~)pEC's deci­sion on Tuesday to boost crude production by 500,000 barrels per day this fall, analysts said. 
Despite Wednesday's jump, oil is still well below inflation-adjusted highs hit in early 1980. Depending on the adjustment, a $38 barrel of oil in 1980 would be worth $96 to $101 or more today. 
Oil's recent advance has been largely due to specu­lative buying by big invest­ment funds, who are responding to a price structure in which oil con­tracts for delivery in future months are cheaper than the current front-month contract, said Jim Ritterbusch, president of Ritterbusch & Associates in Galena, Ill. 

That kind of structure supported by worries a . rising as high as $80.18 In London, October Brent signifies tight demand in tropical depression that earlier. October gasoline crude gained $1.30 to set­the immediate future, and formed in the western rose 3.49 cents to settle at tle at $77.68 a barrel on is a buying incentive. Atlantic on Wednesday will $2.016 a gallon. the ICE Futures Exchange. Investors who buy now will become a hurricane and Nymex .heating oil At the pump, meanwhile, end up with more oil con­hit critical Gulf of Mexico futures rose 3.64 cents to the average national price tracts later, when October oil and gas infrastructure. settle at $2.2191 a gallon, of a gallon of gas inched futures roll over to cheap­"The National Hurricane while natural gas futures higher by 0.1 cent er contracts for delivery in Center says there's a good jumped 50.4 cents to settle overnight to $2.815, later months, Ritterbusch chance that could get into at $6.438 per 1,000 cubic according to AAA and the said. the Gulf," Ritterbusch said. feet. Natural gas prices Oil Price Information 
"This is a market that Light, sweet crude for typically react strongly to Service. Retail prices, wants to run up on the October delivery rose news of tropical weather which typically lag the slightest bit of informa­$1.68 to settle at a record due to the concentration of futures market, peaked at tion," Ritterbusch said. $79.91 on the New York gas infrastructure in the $3.227 a gallon in late 
Prices were also being Mercantile Exchange after Gulf. May. 



Investors wary as rate decision looms 
$80 a barrel, the highest it's ever been has the potential to limit the Fed's abil­
Associated Press 
in intraday trading, and a weakening ity to respond to the economy." 

NEW YORK -Wall Street finished dollar fed concerns about inflation. However, rising energy prices and a essentially flat Wednesday, with Accelerating inflation is not only a falling dollar have some advantages on investors still confident the Federal threat to consumer spending -a pil­Wall Street. High energy costs evince Reserve will lower rates next week but lar of the economy that Wall Street strong global demand, and boost the treading cautiously as oil prices fears is weakening -but it also gives profits of oil and gas companies, while crossed $80 a barrel for the first time the Fed a reason to keep rates where a weaker dollar benefits U.S. compa­and the dollar extended its decline. they are. nies that draw revenue from overseas. 
Investors widely expect the central Crude oil settled at a record $79.91 a The Dow Jones industrial average bank next Tuesday to lower the bench­barrel on the New York Mercantile fell 16.74, or 0.13 percent, to mark federal funds rate by a quarter Exchange after the U.S. government 13,291.65, after weaving in and out of percentage point. The decision has not reported declines last week in crude positive territory throughout the ses­been guaranteed, though, and further­and gasoline supplies. Jack Ahlin, chief sion. A day earlier, the blue-chip index more, many investors worry that a investment officer at Harris Private soared 180 points. quarter-point rate reduction might not Bank, pointed out that price surges in Broader stock indexes were narrow­be enough to address investors' wor­commodities hit Americans particular­ly mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500 ries over the ongoing housing slump ly hard because they're denominated index rose 0.07, or less than 0.01 per­and credit market tightness. in the dollar, which on Wednesday cent, to 1,471.56, and the Nasdaq 
"The more urgent problem than dipped to a new record low versus the composite index fell 5.40, or 0.21 per­what the price of money is, is the avail­euro. cent, to 2,592.07. ability of money," said John Merrill, "I think the Fed has to pay attention Government bond prices slipped. chief investment officer of Tanglewood to this. They need as much elbow The yield on the 10-year Treasury Capital Management in Houston. room as they can get to make a deci­note, which moves opposite its price, "There's such a scramble for cash." sion they feel is right," Ahlin said. rose to 4.41 percent from 4.36 percent 
Meanwhile, crude oil's spike above "Should this dollar continue to fall, it late Tuesday. 

~ 
. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 Thursday, September 13, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Senator's hypocrisy the real crime 

POLICIES 

The Observer is the indt·pendcnt, daily newspaper publish~d in print and online by the smdents of the University ofNotrt· Dame Ju Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial contt•nt, including advertisements, is not gowmed by polkit'S of the administration ofeither institution. The Obst·rvcr reserves the right to rdi.JSc advl'rtisemt·nts based on content. 
Tll<' nrws is reponed as accuratdy and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials rcprcst·nt the opinion of the m;tjority of the Editor in Chiet; Mana~ng Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commcntari<'s. letters and colmnns prcsenr the views of the authors and not nee<~uily those ofThc ()bserver. 
Vit'Wpoint space i~ available to all readers. The free expression of,til opinions through letters is encouraged. l.r.·tters rc.> the Editor must b.: signed and mw.t include t·ontact inlonnarion. · 
(Jut'stions l'tgtlrding Observrr plllicies should be dimtl'd wEditor in ChiefMaddir lfann11. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'11u: Oh\l'rl1.'1 (USI''\ '\?'J .Z-4UUII) 11 l'ulll..fd Mund_, IIH•IIIt(h kid.ly MC."J'I tlun~ \'li.lm .lllt! ....J,1ltlon 11l'flltd\. !I. ~ul ....·llpt'l<>ll Ill ·nu: Oh<.crvc:r II" $11111 fnr clll(" ..~mi.; 
!"he C1n..:ner ia pubi~Aht•f ..u l't>STMA>TER 

024 S.>uth Oiuint( 1/.tll .~nd JJJrw; «tt:rtc;ticm., m: 
Nom· O;uw:.IN 4M~.Qn•J TheOb~l"+'tt 

l>cdod••.al pm:t.a~ paiJ ;u Ncurt l)Jill<' 1~0 Box 719 llUd .Wdlti• •I!Jl ll'l.lilinl( vffioca. 1114 S~uth Dh1in~; If;aJI 
Notre D;m~e.IN 4Clll~tJ..Q779 
Til~ Oh\erwr ,-:t mcm~t ol dac: A\IIM.l.U("d l'l'b\. All tqnodm::[lun uWu' lltC l'tt«vtd. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

P.O. Bo~ 779, Notre D"mc, IN 46556 024 South Dining IIJII. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Eorron IN CHIEF Maddil' Hanna 

MANAGING Enrron BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassity A•iS'I~ MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NFWS EtliH.lR: Karen Langley 
Vwwt•oiNT EmTOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE E1 •nnn: T:te Andrew~ 
SA.tNT MARY's EDITOR: Katil· Kohkr 

I'IIOTO EmTOit: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPIIICS EntTOit: Madeline Nies 
AIIVI'.RTISING MANA<;I'.R: Jessica Conez 

All DFSIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROL.l.ER: 'J'im Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTitA.TOit: Christian Sagardi;t 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) (,JI-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 6.~ 1-6'100 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
('i74) 6.31-4542 

MANAGING EDITOR (S74) (,J 1-4541 obsrne@nd.cdu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(S7•il 6.~ 1-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631·S31J 

NEWS DESK (574) 6:) 1-5323 obsnews.1 @nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-)JO.i vit·wpoint.1@nd.cdu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631·4543 spons.J@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631·4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l (Pnd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WED ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

I've never been propositionnd f(>r gay sex in anum's room. I don't tl1ink I have, at least. Thnn again, bnfom last wenk, I also never knew that tapping your foot in a bathroom stall meant that you wanted sex. Sure enough, though, every major national newspaper detailed that apparnntly popular men's room mating ritual late last month. 
Early this June, in a Minnesota air­port restroom. Sen. Larry Craig, H­Idaho, was arrest­ed and charged with disorderly conduct. Aceording to the police report, Sen. Craig pHeknd into the stall of an undercover police ofiicer. Sen. Craig then entered the adjacent stall and "tapped his toes several times and moved his lcJOt closer," to those of an undercover police ofiicer. The ollieer "rec­ognized this as a signal for those wishing to engage in lewd conduct" and tapped his own f(JOt "several times" in response. 
Sen. Craig then moved his f(Jot so that it touched the ollicer's foot. lie swiped his left hand, which bore his gold wedding ring, under the stall divider. The ntlicer swiped his police badge under the stall. I le would latnr place Sen. Craig under arrest. 
At the time, Craig insisted that it was a misunderstanding. In one of it<> more com­ical moments. the police report divulges that Sen. Craig claims he "has a wide stance when going to the bathroom." Despite his denials, Sen. Craig pled guilty to disorderly conduct in early August. He has since tried to retract the plea -he · claims he was only trying to "handle this matter... quickly and expeditiously." Using questionable logic, Craig claims he was effectively forced to plea because The Idaho Statesmen had been conducting an 

investigation of his sexuality for the previ­
ous eight months. 
lie claims, "Let me be dear: I am not gay. I never have been gay." Forgive me for questioning his eompetence as a deci­sion-maker if he believes the best way to prove his heterosexuality is by admitting to making a pass at another man. I don't believe a word Craig says. lie has an interest in maintaining his het<wosexuali­ty: Craig has long been one ol' the Senate's most reliable conservatives. 
In 2004, Sen. Craig was f:,riven a 100 per­cent voter rating by the Christian Coalition. Last year. he supported a consti­tutional amendment to ban same-sex marriages and civil unions in the stahl of Idaho. IIe sent a letter to constituent<> assuring them that "the appropriate defi­nition of a marriage is between a man and a woman." Craig won't have the opportu­nity, though, to continue his light against gay right<>. Last week, he announced that at the end of tlie month, he will resign ­because, of course, he is not gay. 
But Sen. Craig should not resign. All things eonsidered, he has donn little wrong. 
Senate Minority Loader Mitch McConnell, H-Ky., insislo.; that Craig's resig­nation is appropriate because he broke the law. But I tend to doubt that's the rea­son Craig is resigning. Considnr the pmee­dent: 
In 2005, Congressman Kevin Brady. H­Texas, was arrested for driving under the inlluence. He would plead guilty to the misdemeanor. Rep. Brady was re-elected to the House last November. 
Since not every crime results in demands for resignation, there was some­thing special about Sen. Craig's crime. So why is Sen~ Craig resigning? It still could be that Sen. McConnell believes that Craig's crime is "worse" than a DUI-but I tend to doubt that is the case. After all. Rep. Brady's crime was decidedly danger­ous. By taking to the road, he put lives on the line. 
Sen. Craig. mnanwhilP, tappnd his lclOt in a men's room. The <Time is victimless. lie sought sex with an anonymous man. but, presumably, would not have gonn any farther if the undereover ollicer had not indicatnd his interest by tapping ba<~k. Sen. Craig has to resign because he hit on an appawntly willing partner. If we forcPd every Senator who llirtnd with a potential partner to resign, the Senate lloors would bn nearly empty. 
So why does Sen. Craig have to resign'? lie hit on a man. A willing man. And that is unaeceptabln. It is nspndally unaceept­ablo for a 100 percent "pro-family" Hepublican. A<> a sodnty, we are still uneomfortabln with gay sex. More uncom­lcwtablfl than we am with a Conf.,rressnum driving und.er the inlltwnm of alcohol and more uncomfortabln-as Sen. Vittnr, H­La., recently proved -than wo arn with a "pro-family" Senator soliciting a prosti­tute. 
S<m. Craig should not resign. And the "crime" hH committnd should not bn illn­gal. Tapping one's foot in a bathroom and flirting with a willing potnntial snx partner are not crimes. Snn. Craig was arrnstPd by laws lcmnded on an outdated discomfort with homosexuality. 
It's too bad Snn. Craig fnnls the nnod to be in apparent self-denial about his sexu­ality. It's satis(yingly ironic, though, that it is Sen. Craig's hypocritical politics and professed ideology that perpetuatn the social discomlc>rt that lead to his dcmisn. 
S<m. Craig, I wish you didn't have to go. 
But good riddanen. You won't be missed. 
Andrew Nesi is a junior American Studies major from Fairfield. Connecticut. Last fall, his lung collapsed, possibly as the result ofa bad case ofmono and an ill-timed breakup. lie can be reached at anesi@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Jenn Metz Francis Tolan Hohan Anand Michael Bryan 
When will Notre Dame win its
John Tierney Samantha 
'"'The pure and simple truth is rarely 
first football game this season? 
Graphics Leonard pure and never simple. " Matt Hudson Scene · 
Oscar Wilde 

Viewpoint Tae Andrews 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. playwright, novelist and poet
Jordan Gamble 

at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, September 13, 2007 page 9 
U-WIRE 
Hi there. I just turned 19. Some of you have been there and done that. Some of you are on your way there. But none of us ever really wants to be there. Being 19 is like being a can of flat root beer. 
As if ro~t beer isn't Nandini nauseatmg enough, Jammi try that mess when it's been lying open The on thn kitchen count-Diamondback er for a week. Try it every day for two years, bet:ause being 19 sucks: It's a year of desperate limbo. It's not even real beer. 
There are no magazines named "Nineteen." There are no uncomfortably skanky stores named Forever 19. This age is so boring that even corporate America hasn't bothered glorifying it for a little profit. What is this, if not purga­tory-some cruel joke played by a bunch of men in powdered wigs some centuries ago? Because I'll tell you, being 18 was great. It was fantastic. 
When I turned 18, I watched infomer­cials with unprecedented fascination. I could buy myself a Marvin's Magic Drawing Board! {I could also find out that it doesn't work. Man, was that anti­climactic.) Among other things I realized I could potentially do: pull a. fire alarm 
19 dreatn 
in a crowded room (as I did when I was six on Bingo Night), start calling my mother by her first name and get legally kicked out of the house, sign up for my own credit card, find work as a cocktail waitress and book a tlight to Topeka. (What would I do in Topeka, once I reached that barren abyss? Until I could figure that out, I would have to sleep in a cornfield with Toto because I wouldn't be able to put myself up in a hotel room. You have to be 21 to do that.) 
The thing about your eighteenth birth­day is that when you wake up, you're a different entity. Nobody looks at you the same way anymore. You're a big kid now. When you're 18, all of your fan­tasies about George Clooney and Harrison Ford are no longer gross and illegal. They're just gross. When you're 18, you can go to the big house for stealing-forget all that soft-core juvie stuff. 
When you're 18, you can finally walk into a bar! Wowzers! However, the walk in will be very awkward because once you sit down, you will have to order a Shirley Temple or something. And you will realize that no matter how maturely you ask the waiter, you are indeed ordering a drink originally created for a two-foot-tall, elfin child. Well, here's my big, sarcastic thank you to the men who devised these wondrous inconveniences. Someone in a sweaty wig thought it a brilliant idea to thrust the newly minted 18-year-old into the adult world, and then leave her lingering in the twilight zone. 
But maybe the geezers who decided on our age of majority are inadvertently helping to wean us off the concept of privilege with age. Yeah, you turn 21, never remember that night and bring your wheezing liver to its knees in the ensuing weekends, and then what? You turn 22, 23 and 24. Ladies, we start get­ting wrinkles at 25. (We can take our wrinkly selves to Enterprise because we can now legally rent cars.) Welcome the debut of puffy, dark circles under your eyes. Treat them to cucumber slices, but they'll stay anyway, just like your ugly, impish children. 
Wait a few years for your cellulite to develop. You will stop eating cottage cheese because the sight of it will visibly upset you. It's a downward spiral into old age, watching cholesterol levels and mortgages. There are no privileges ­just mid-life crises and life insurance premiums. CO's don't hold music any­more; they're banking jargon. Neutrogena can't help us now! 
Nineteen? It could be worse. I could be on the verge of even more distressing decades: 29, 39, 49. Lord knows, at 59, AARP will buy my address off Crabtree & Evelyn's mailing list and eat into my mailbox. By then, Zac Efron will be their official spokesman. We'll all swoon at airbrushed pictures of him with wispy white hair and a slightly protruding belly as he playfully scampers on the beach with his grandchildren, Jooliya and Gymmi, whose names he won't be able to spell right, in addition to his own. 
As appetizing as old age sounds, I'm going to buckle up for a good year, espe­cially since turning 19 comes with the singularly thrilling experience of eligi­bility for a Costco membership. That's good -buying margarita mix in bulk might come in handy... in two years. 
This column originally appeared in the Sept. 12 edition of The Diamondback, the publication of the University ofMaryland. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



U-WIRE 
"A tax on textbooks is a direct tax on education," Jesse Woods, SGA sen­ator, said in the story "Bill may exempt textbooks from taxes" that Staff ran in the Sept. 7 Editorial edition of The 
The Crimson
Crimson White. 
White

The CW editorial board agrees. 
The SGA is working on a bill that would give students a break when buying textbooks. The bill would reip.ove state, city and local sales taxes on textbooks. It would also stop taxes from being charged in private and public universities. 
We agree that textbook prices are already exorbitant. Paying taxes on textbooks only makes buying text­books harder -it directly affects a 
Cut taxes on textbooks 
group already strained for money. 

We understand that taxes fund edu­cation. It would be a bad idea to reduce the state's income, which can, among other things, negatively affect education. However, there are better places to generate revenue than through taxing textbooks. 
Compensate for getting rid of text­books tax by raising other taxes such as property taxes. Alabama has some of the lowest property taxes in the country. 
If you spread out the increase in taxes across the state and on different things, there will be fewer com­plaints. 
Exempting textbooks from taxes would be a giant step in the right direction, but universities also have a responsibility to students when it comes to textbooks. Universities should help students by offering books online and not requiring as many books. 
Often times, students are forced to buy packaged books -a textbook, workbook and study guide -of which they will only use the textbook. The inclusion of a CD increases the text­book's price drastically. And more often than not, students won't use the CD. 
Universities should find ways around dealing with companies that only offer packaged editions of cer­tain textbooks or bundle CD or access in with the book prices. 
College is about getting an educa­tion. If students -who are already struggling for money -are required to buy expensive textbooks, they may opt to not even purchase the book and rely on the teacher's lecture. How can a university expect its students to suc­ceed if they can't afford the text­books? 
If the state of Alabama is able to compensate for the removal of taxes on textbooks, then textbooks should be exempted from taxes. Coupling the tax exemption with university efforts to find less expensive textbooks only makes purchasing textbooks easier on students. 
This column originally appeared in the Sept. 12 edition of The Crimson White, the publication of the University ofAlabama. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 10 
Thursday, Sept~mber 13, 2007 


Name: Keenan Ryan Now Playing: "Your Body is a Wonderland" Artist: John Mayer 
/ 



Artist: Marvin GayeNow Playing: "Look After You" Artist: The Fray 
irishTunes 
Ever wonder what tunes are playing in all those iPod earphones on the quad? 
Name: Erin Wash Now Playing: "(I Will) Fix You" Artist: Coldplay 
OBSERVER GRAPHIC MaN Hudson 
me: Now Playing: "Banana Pancakes" Artist: Jack Johnson 
MENU 
'· 






THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Thursday, September 13, 200/' 
page 11 

By CHRIS McGRADY Assistant Scene Editor 
In an increasingly complex digital world, the vast majority of worldwide business industries are running full speed into the Internet revolution. While some businesses around the globe cope with the technological advances in stride, others drag their feet reluctantly. The music industry stalwarts, namely the "Big Four" ­Universal Music Group, Sony/BMG, EM! and Warner Music Group-continue to slowly find a way to adapt to (or is it resist?) the changing world of digital music. 
The "light" started in 1995, when most of the proliferation of MP3 music Iiles began on the Internet. By 1999, with the advent of Napster, users had access to vast libraries of music through shared peer-to-peer networks. The small size of MP3 Iiles enabled widespread distribution of music, and once record companies noticed a profit­dip from-and a reduction in-CD sales, lawsuits were filed. Ultimately, the free Napster closed down, but the digital sharing of music was cruising along at an unstoppable pace. 
So where do we find ourselves today? 
loopholes. Once a song is burned onto a disc, unlimited copies of that disc can be made and shared. It is still illegal, but hard to trace for record companies seeking royalties for using their music. 
So what can record compa­nies do? Realistically, noth­ing. And just now are they starting to realize this. 
Some record companies, such as London-based con­glomerate EMI, are starting to decide that, while they may catch people sharing music here and there, the spoils are not in proportion to the fight. EMI is now releasing DRM-free music through outlets such as iTunes. The flles are offered in a higher quality format than the other MP3s and come at a premium price. 
As these tracks spread, EMI hopes, lis­teners will be more likely to want to buy the whole album and attend con­certs, leading to increased profits. 

So far, the experiment hasn't had time to mature, and EMI is reluctant to give any substantial data -which suggests things aren't going so well. However, how this plays out won't be apparent for a substantial amount of time. EMI, 
To combat the illegal sharing of MP3 files, many record companies are encrypting their music with a technology called DRM, or digital rights management. The encryption limits the ability of users to digital­ly copy songs. Think of the files you might have downloaded from iTunes. Unless the files are DRM­free (as recently some iTunes songs are), you can only burn a certain 
The music industry stal­warts, namely the "Big Four" -Universal Music Group, Sony/BMG, EM/, and Warner Music Group -continue to slowly find a way to adapt to -or is it resist? -the changing world ofdigital music. While music execs crumble under the explosion offile sharing and the corresponding, inevitable decrease ofCD sales, the companies are seeking profits from other areas of the music world. 
than doubling the current rates by 2010. The increase is only a fraction of a cent, but on a per song, per listener basis, the fees can exponentially increase. The increase went into effect July 15, and Internet radio sta­tions around the world are already feeling the effects, closing by the dozen. It is ironic, in fact, that the radio stations closing down are the ones who probably do the least harm to record sales ­these are the "mom.and 
however, is to be admired for at least taking steps to adapt to a changing digital world. 
While music execs crumble under the explosion of file shar­ing and the correspon­ding, inevitable decrease of CD sales, the companies are seeking profits from other areas of the music world. One of these areas is Internet 

number of copies, and the files will not play on someone else's computer. Some songs are even encrypted wi1h personal information, such as your name and your e-mail address. 
But, as with most processes, there are radio stations, which largely flew under the radar for years, playing thousands of hours of music to millions of listeners around the globe. The problem the record companies had is that the fees for playing music on the Internet were minimal -hardly worth collecting on. But that was soon to change. 
SoundExchange, a company responsi­ble for collecting Internet royalties, pro­posed a huge royalty increase, more 
pop" Internet stations run out of the basement of houses across the world. 
So the question is this: What is the direction of the current music scene? There is a certain level of contrasting steps being taken by those at the top of the music empire. 
While companies are making an effort toward admitting that attempting to limit file sharing is largely ineffectual, they are at the same time putting an immense strain on the Internet radio medium. The record companies are simultaneously promoting the free share of music while limiting those who can spread the audio joy. 
It is undeniable, however, that the music culture is becoming fully har­bored in the digital world. Just as records gave way to cassette tapes, and cassette tapes gave way to CDs, the dig­ital proliferation and transportation of music is well on its way, firmly estab­lished in the modern culture. Digital music remains on a continued path to widespread implementation, one that will continue despite any and all efforts from the top of the music industry to stop it. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl @nd.edu 
OBSERVER GRAPHIC I Matt Hudson 


RECORDS 
Photo courtesy of noblepr.co.uk Warner Music Group is one of the "Big Four" music industry stalwarts. 



Although the free version of Napster shut down years ago, music companies continue to target illegal online file sharing as it cuts into their profits. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 13, 2007 
MLB 

Verlander shuts dovvn Rangers, keeps Tigers in playoff hunt 
White Sox top Indians as Thome hits career home run No. 499; Brewers comeback falls short as Pirates pull away late 
earenr. The White Sox, already elimi­
Associated Press 

A day after snapping an 0-for-nated from the playofls, ended a 
DI•:THOIT -Magglio Ordonez 25 skid. Sheffield's two-run three-game skid and snapped AL hit a three-run horne run, Gary homer in the first inning ended a Central-leading Cleveland's four­Sherfield had a two-run homer I h-game homerless drought. game winning streak. and Justin VPrlander allowed Ordonez's three-run shot put After flying out to shallow right only a run, leading tho Detroit Detroit ahead 5-1 in the sixth, in his first at-bat, Thome, a for­Tigers to a 5-1 vktory over tlw giving him 132 HBis for the sea­mer Indian, drove a 2-0 fastball Tnxas Hangers on Wednesday son -the most si"nee Ceeil from Jake Westbrook out to right night. Fielder had 133 in 1991. The AL field leading ofl' the fourth inning 
Tlw Tigers IHtVI' won seven of MVP candidate is three HBis to give the White Sox a 2-1 lead. nirw to stay in tlw wild-eard away from his earner high and It was his 27th of the season. chase with the streaking New nine away from being the first "You know about it. definitely," York Yanke1~s. who began the Tiger to drive in more than 140 Westbrook said of Thome's pur­day four games ahnad for the runs sinee llank Greenberg in suit. "It doesn't mean I piteh him Al.'s linal spot in tlw postseason. 1940. any dill"erently." 
Texas has droppPd two straight The Hangers put two on with Thome would beeome the 23rd allnr winning I:{ of I 5. no oul<; in the fourth and two on to reaeh 500 and the third this 
VnrlandPr ( 17-5) became the with one out in the sixth, and season, following Frank Thomas f"irst lh~troit pitdwr to win at camn away with only a run. and Alex Rodriguez. lnast 17 games in eonsecu tive Young doubled in the sixth and With a disastrous season com­seasons sinen .lark Morris in seornd on David Murphy's single ing to a close, the White Sox are IIJSh-S7. The reigning AI. Bookie to make it 2-1. in the mood to celebrate some­of the Year, who was 17-9 last thing besides contract extensions snason, gave up seven hits, a White Sox 7, Indians 4 and upeoming vacations. walk and struck out snv11n. Jim Thome is just one away "It's something to look forward 
lin has won four straight now, and he's having a whole lot to, especially for myself," said starts. combining to allow just of lim with his pursuit of a mem­manager Ozzie Guillen, who was thrm~ runs. orable milestone. just rewarded with a four-year 
Todd Jones struck out the side Thome hit his 499th homer extension despite the team's in the ninth. and drove in three runs to lead woes. "Every time Thome hits a 
hlinson Volquez (2-1 l gave up the Chicago White Sox over the home run, it makes it easy for Rincon on Sunday. Milwaukee, which began the five runs, seven hits and four Cleveland Indians Wednesday. me to come and talk (to the day one game ahead of the walks while striking out a career­"It's been pretty awesome," media) about the game. Not Pirates 7, Brewers 4 Chicago Cubs, dropped to 20-42 high six. lie made his third start Thome said. "I guess it's kind of many players in the elubhouse A loss like this hurt in April at PNC Park, which opened in of the sea..<;on and the 14th of his reality now. It's getting close." have seen a milestone like that." and May, for sure. When a con­2001. Even while mounting a 
The team has a "Thome tending team like Milwaukee comeback from a 4-0 deficit, the Ticker" on a billboard in right climbs back from a four-run Brewers left live runners on base field, and the designated hitter deficit, ties it up in the late in tho seventh and eighth said he and the team are plan­innings and then loses in innings. ning to handsomely reward the September, the defeat feels a The Brewers tind it at 4 in the fan who catches No. 500, so he whole lot worse. eighth on Prinee Fielder's run­can get the ball baek and person­Ronny Paulino singled in the scoring grounder and Corey ally deliver it to the Hall of Fame go-ahead run during a three-run Hart's HBI triple. But the in Cooperstown. eighth inning, and the Pittsburgh Brewers, who had won nine of 
Thome, who finished with Pirates staged a rally of their 13, left the bases loaded when three hits, came up in the fifth own to beat the division-leading Grabow (3-1) got pinch-hitter with the bases loaded and one Brewers Wednesday. Geoll' Jenkins to ground out after out and sent a broken-bat single Pinch-hitter Josh Phelps fol­falling behind in the eount 3-0. into right on Westbrook's first lowed Paulino's hit with a two­"We just didn't get the job done pitch to drive in two runs. run triple off Derrick Turnbow there," managnr Ned Yost said. 
"You could feel the excitement (4-5) and rookie Steve Pearee Turnbow immediately got into in the dugout," the 3 7 -year-old drove in two runs for Pittsburgh, trouble by walking Jose Bautista Thome said. "The guys were get­which is one loss away from a and Pearee, who had four hits ting excited. It's just a matter of 15th consecutive losing season and thren HBis in the series. going out and not really thinking yet won twiee in the thrno-game Paulino's singln put Pittsburgh about it, but it's tough." series. ahead again and Phelps -who 
Thome spent about three "We're playing contenders for is on a 13-for-27 tear yet is play­weeks on the disabled list this the rest of the season and we ing little -tripled into left-cen­season and has missed 30 games have a ehance to spoil some ter. after 1~arning AL Comeback playoff hopes," Pirates reliever "When the team eomes from Player of the Year honors last John Grabow said. "We ean't let behind, battlos hard tho whol!~ year with 42 homers and 107 up. We need to keep the mind-set game, ties the game up and gets HBis. lie homered in three that these teams are trying to kill in a position to win and you're straight games last week, hitting us and we've got to play them as the guy who doesn't get the job No. 498 off Minnesota's Juan hard as we can." done, it's tough," Turnbow said. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. w 2\>.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 2 p.m. AI classificds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right ro edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
STUDENT WORK $12.75 base­appt. Flexible schedules. no experi­
ence needed, customer saleslserv­
ice, conditions apply, all ages 18+, SOCCER REFEREES-needed for 574-273-3835, southside elementary school. www. workforstudents.com Located near Erskine Golf Course on Miami St. $35/per game. Call athletic director at 574-291-4200. FoR SALE 
WANTED 

Friendly smiling servers needed. Full or part time openings. If you are friendly and smiling. we will train you. Some cook positions available too. Apply in person 52285 US 31 N South Bend. Damons Grill eoe 
Web Designer needed to create new website. Experience with shop­ping carts, autoresponders, video/audio files desired. $10/hr. Call574-320-2522 after 5. 
BUY/SELL used CDs,DVDs, video games, video game systems and vinyl. Buyco, 3602 Grape Rd., Mishawaka. 252-9222. 
98 Saturn Sport Coupe, auto,power,AC,stereo,clean,66K. $4500 Blue Book. 574-289-6432 lv.message. 
FoR RENT 
Fum. apt., sleeps 4 maybe 6. NO home games. Right next to NO. 574-273-3030 ask for Pat. 
Homes for 08-09. 4-6 bedrooms. Walk to NO. 574-876-7341. For Football weekends, call 574-532-1408. 
FOOTBALL HOUSE -3 bedroom home, 5 blocks from campus for rent on football weekends, JPW, Graduation. Operated as a weekend rental. Great alternative to stupid hotel prices on those weekends. www.notredameliving.com or call Alex 212-418-6937. 
2bdrm house wlbasement, wash­er/dryer. Corby at Eddy 574-232-9084. 
3 bdrm house. Walk to NO. Washer & dryer. $750/mo. Landlord does yardwork. No pets. No Section 8. 
Call574-250-1266. 


TICKETS 
WANTED -NO FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or 

PERSONAL someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 
LASER CREATIONS Unique at 1-7819. Products Thru Laser Technology. Laser etched For more information, visit our logo gifts, signs, award plaques, website at: name tags, http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­rubber stamps, glass etching, etc. nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad Call Jack 574-273-8662 in THE OBSERVER. 
or email: lasercr@comcast.net If you or someone you care about 
has been sexually assaulted, visit FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. Spring Break 2008. ALL HOME GAMES. Sell Trips, Eam Cash and Go http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. 574-232-0964. Free. Call for group discounts. shtml 
Best Deals Guaranteed! www. victorytickets.com Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Mark from ABC Cab is Back! Bahamas, S.Padre, Florida. Now Driving for American Cab Co NO tickets for sale. 800-648-4849 On Wed,Thurs,Fri,Sat,Nights. 
Best Prices. or Cell574-360-6480. BABYSITIER NEEDED. Local lam-Lodging for fooball games -Visit 3 bdrrn house. Walk to NO. Washer www.ststravel.com ily is seeking babysitter for 2-year-www.amishcountrybb.org for 24 & dryer. $750/mo. Landlord does 574-288-2726. Children need encouragement. If a old boy. Flexible hours, Tues/Thurs. Quality Bed and Breakfast yardwork. No pets. No Section B. When you go in for a job interview, I kid gets an answer right, tell him it preferred. Must have references. Accommodations. Non-smoking, Buying BC/USC tix. think a good thing to ask is if they was a lucky guess. That way he 574-271-0747. Private Baths, Full Breakfasts. Call574-250-1266. 574-277-1659. ever press charges. develops a good, lucky feeling. 



____________! 
AROUND THE NATION 
Thursday, September 13, 2007 
NCAA Women's Soccer NSCAA/adidas Poll 
team record prec,ious 
1  Stanford  4·0·0  
2  North Carolina  2·1·0  
3  Santa Clara  2·0·1  
4  Portland  3·1·0  
5  Texas A&M  3·1·0  
6  UCLA  2·1·0  
7  Texas  3·1·0  
8  BC  3-0-0  
9  Florida  3-1-0  
10  Virginia  2·1-1  
11  NOTRE DAME  1-2·1  
12  Rutgers  4·0-0  
13  Florida State  2-2-0  
14  California  4-0·0  
15  Tennessee  3·1·0  
NCAA Men's Soccer  
NSCAA/adidas Poll  

5 6 8 1 3 7 4 10 14 11 2 12 
9 • 16 13 

team record previous 
1 Wake Forest 4-0-0 1 2 Indiana 3-0-1 4 3 SMU 2-0·1 8 4 Connecticut 4-0-0 14 5 Duke 3-1-0 2 6 Virginia 3+0 3 7 Maryland 2-1·1 6 8 Santa Clara 3-1-D 5 9 NOTRE DAME 2-1-1 9 10 Northwestern 3-0-1 10 11 California 2-1-0 7 12 Ohio State 3·0-1 22 13 West Virginia 2-1-D 20 14 UCSB 1-1-1 13 15 Harvard 3·0-0 21 
NCAA Football 

Associated Press Top 25 
team record previous 
1 usc (40) 1·0 1 2 LSU (5) 2·0 2 3 OklahOma 2·0 3 4 Wesl Virginia 2-0 6 5 Florida 2·0 8 5 Texas 2-0 7 7 Wisconsin 2-0 4 8 California 2-0 10 9 louisville 2-0 9 10 Ohio State 2·0 12 11 UClA 2·0 13 
12 Penn State 2-0 11 13 Rutgers 2·0 14 14 Nebraska 2·0 17 15 Georgia Tech 2-0 16 16 Arkansas 1-0 20 17 South Carolina 2-D 18 18 Virginia Tech 1-1 21 19 Oregon 2-0 22 20 Clemson 2-0 23 21 Boston College 2·0 NR 22 Tennessee 1·1 24 23 Georgia 1·1 25 24 Hawaii 2-0 15 25 TexasA&M 2·0 NR 
around tl1e dial 
WN BA Fn•ALS Detroit Shock vs. Phoenix Mercury 9:00p.m., ESPN2 
NCAA FOOTBALL West Virginia at 1\llaryland 7:30p.m., ESPN 
MAJOR LEAGUE SoccER LA Galaxy vs. CD Chivas USA 11 p.m., ESPN2 
CnhttPI LED FROM Tt1T OnsERVER's WIRE SERVICEs 
NFL 
Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. This videotape needs no interpretation: New England Patriots coach Bill Belichick walked out of his news conference Wednesday when pressed repeatedly about the side­line spying scandal that landed him on NFL com­missioner Roger Goodell's crowded docket. 
Ten minutes before his regular availability, Belichick issued a one­paragraph statement apologizing to his team and confirming that he has spoken to Goodell about an "interpretation" of league rules that ban videotaping of the oppos-ing sideline. 


"Although it remains a league matter, I want to apologize to everyone who has been affected, most of all ownership, staff and players," Belichick said. "Following the league's decision, I will have further com­ment." 
It was not clear whether Belichick was apologizing for his actions or the dis­traction it has caused his team as it prepares for Sunday night's marquee game against San Diego. 
But if he thought -or even hoped -that the standing-room crowd of media was there to talk about the Chargers, he failed to prepare in the 
IN BRIEF 

Pennington will return to practice 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. -Chad Pennington stepped to the podium, showing little sign of a limp, and declared himself ready for prac­tice. 
''I'll be out there," the New York Jets quarterback said Wednesday. "As far as reps and things like that, I have no idea what the coaches have in mind. I'll be ready to do whatever they ask me to do." 
Whether that includes playing against the Baltimore Ravens on Sunday remains to be seen, but Pennington is preparing as if he'll be out on the field despite his injured right ankle. 
"It's just a day-to-day process and I'm working extremely hard around the clock to do everything I can to prepare myself to play," Pennington said. ''I'm just taking it day by day and seeing how much progress I make each day." 
manner that has made him one of the most suc­cessful coaches in the his­tory of the league. 
Never one to relish his interactions with the media, Belichick grimly refused to respond to a half-dozen questions about the scandal, possi­ble punishments and the potential effect on his team. Begging for a foot­ball question, he seemed ready to abort the news conference after just a few minutes at the podi­um. 
"Any questions about the Chargers?" he plead­ed in his standard, other­things-to-do monotone. "Want to talk about the football game? If not, I 
page 13 
think that statement pret­ty much covers it." 
It appeared that there were none, before one reporter asked about Chargers running back LaDainian Tomlinson. 
The prospect of defend­ing against the reigning NFL offensive player of the year ·is not the sort of thing that usually cheers up opposing coaches. 
But Belichick smiled. 
"I think the Chargers are a concern. Their foot­ball team is a concern. That's what we're con­cerned about," he said. "Whatever happens out there Sunday night, out there on the field, that's when everybody will make their statement." 

Bell Suspended without pay
15 games 
NEW YORK -Toronto Maple Leafs forward Mark Bell was sus­pended for 15 games without pay Wednesday by the NIIL after his plea last month of no contest to drunken driving and hit-and-run charges. 
"Playing in the National Hockey League is a privilege, and with that privilege comes a correspon­ding responsibility for exemplary conduct off the ice as well as on it," commissioner Gary Bettman said. 
"Yeah I think the length of the suspension was a surprise," Bell said at the Air Canada Centre in Toronto after the announcement. "I haven't been in contact with the league until about 48 hours ago, but I respect the decision the com­missioner made and I look forward to moving on in a positive manner -as I have been for the last year." 
Buccaneers release receiver 
David Boston 
TAMPA, Fla. -Receiver David Boston was released by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers on Wednesday, two days after police released results of a urine test that showed the eighth­year pro had a depressant in his system when he was arrested and charged with driving under the influence last month. 
The Bucs said Boston, who hurt his foot during pregame warmups and did not play in last Sunday's opener at Seattle, was let go after reaching an injury settlement. Receiver/kick returner Mark Jones was signed to replace him. 
''I'm very disappointed.... For two years, it was a Cinderella story, and we had hoped he could come back and rejuvenate his career," said Bucs coach Jon Gruden, who also brought Boston into training camp in 2006. "Unfortunately it did not work out." 

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 13, 2007 
NFL 

Everett llloves lilllbs, vvilllikely vvalk again 
Doctor calls Bills player's progress 'spectacular' 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. -Knvin Hvnrnlt voluntarily movnd his arms and lngs on Tunsday whnn partially awakPnl'd, prompting a rwurosurw~on to say Llw Bull'alo Bills' tight !'tHI would walk again -contrary to thn grim prognosis givnn a day lwf'orP. 
"Basnd on our nxpnrimu:n, Llw fact that he's moving so wnll, so narly af'l!~r such a catastrophie injury mnans lw will walk again," said l>r. Barth Crnnn, chairman of' thn dnpartnwnt of' nnurologkal surgery at the Univnrsity of' Miami school of' mmlidnn. 
"It's totally spec.taeular, totally urwxpnctnd." <;rn!~n told The Assoeial!~d Press by telephone from Miami. 
Crnnn said lu~·s bnnn consulting with doctors in Buf'f'alo since Evnrett sustairwd a lilil-lhrnatnn­ing spinal cord injury Sunday al'tnr ducking his head while tackling the l>nnver Broncos' llomnnik Hixon during the sec­ond-half' kkkofl' of' tlw Bills' Sim­son opnrwr. 
Evnrntt droppnd f'aen-first to t.lw ground aftPr his lwlnwt hit Hixon high on tlw lnf't shouldnr and sidn of' the lwlrrwt. 
l~vnrnlt n~mains in intPnsive 

' earn at Bufl'alo's Millard Fillmore Cal!~s llospital and will bP slowly takPn ofl' snd'ation and have his body tmnpnrature warmed over the next day, GrePn said. Doctors will then bn1-,rin taking the playnr oll'lifP support systems-includ­ing a rnspirator -eurrnntly eon­trolling his body funetions. "It's feasible, but it's not 100 pen:imt predictable at this time ... he could lr.ad a normal lifo," Grnnn said. On Monday, Bills orthopedic surgnon, l>r. Andrnw Cappueeino, said Ewwtt likPly wouldn't walk again. "A hest-casn sem1ario is full rneovnry, hut not liknly," said Cappuccino, who opPratnd on the rnsnrvn tight nnd. "I bnlinvn tlwrn will hn some pPrrrHtnnnt nnuro­logic dnfieit." Cappuccino was not available Tunsday. and hospital spoknsman Mikn llughns dndirwd romnwnt. In a rnport TuPsday evnning, Buffalo's WIVB-TV quotnd Cappur:dno as saying: "Wn may bn witnnssing a minor miradn." Bills ownnr Halph Wilson said thn tnarn has bl'nn in eonta1:t from thn h1~ginning with Crnen and Llw Miami l'rojnct, thn uni­wrsity's nnurologiral cnntnr that spndalizns in spinal rord injurins 
and paralysis. 
"I don't know if I would call it a 

mirade. I would call it a spectac­
ular example of' what people can 
do," Grnnn said. "To me, it's like 
putting tho first man on the moon 
or splitting the atom. We've 
shown that if the right tnmtment 
is giwn to people who have a cat­
astrophic injury that they could 
walk away from it." 
Tlw encouraging news might havn come as a surprise to many, but not to those who know Everett wdl. 
AI Cdaya, who coached Everett at Thomas Jeflerson lligh in Port Arthur. Texas, was confident his former player would battle through. 
"When faced with any adversi­ty. Kevin is going to put out the effort. he's going t,o work hard and he's going to lind a way to win," Celaya said. "I think Kevin will tie that kind of person, bneause that's the kind of person he's always been." 
Intending to play basketball, Everett was persuaded by Celaya to give football a try. Some nine years later, and after two seasons at tlw University of Miami, Everett was Bufl'alo's third-round pick in the 2005 draft. 
"lie overcame a lot of odds to do that." Celaya said. 
Gr1wn said the key was the quick action taken by Cappuccino to run an ice-cold ·saline solution through Everett's system that put the player in a hypothermic state. l>oetors at the Miami Proje-ct have demonstrated in their labo­ratories that such action signifi­cantly decreases the damage to the spinal cord due to swelling and movement. 
"We've been doing a protocol on humans and having similar experiences for many months now," (~reen said. "But this is the first time I'm aware of that the doetor was with the patient when he was injured and the hypother­mia was started within minutes of' the injury. We know the earlier it's startnd, the better." 
Cappuccino said Monday that thn 25-year-old did have touch sensation throughout his body, shownd signs of voluntary move­nwnt and was able to breathe on his own before being sedated. But he cautioned that Everett's injury remained life-threatening bncaus1~ he was still susceptible to blood clots, inf'nction and breathing failun~. 
(;renn noted that Everett and Wilson have ties to Miami and the Miami Project-Everett played there and Wilson is one of thn project's largest donors. 
"It's an amazing group of cir­c:umstances. It's a home run." 
GOLF 


Woods, Lefty ready at TPC 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -It started in 
Hawaii with too much hype 
and an equal dose of skepti­
cism. 

Eight months later, the FedEx Cup ends at East Lake with no need for promotion and no big surpriS!)S. 
·Tiger Woods arrived at the Tour Championship on Wednesday with the best chance to capture the inaugu­ral FedEx Cup and a $10 mil­lion deposit into a retirement fund, and he simply nodded his head when asked if $10 million still meant something to a guy who brings in close to $100 million a year. 
Phil Mickelson is No. 3 in the standings after skipping last week. lie will have to win the Tour Championship for any chance of capturing the cup, although he beat the world's No. 1 player the last time they got together outside Boston. 
In the middle is Cinderella, also known as Steve Strieker. 
One of only two players who have finished in the top 1 0 all three weeks in the PGA Tour Playoffs, he is the feel-good story of this FedEx Cup, having lost his card two years ago and eoming into this season with just over $10 million in career earnings. 
"Let's face it, the FedEx Cup has been pretty blessed," NBC Sports analyst Johnny Miller said Wednesday. "This didn't need to go down the way it did. It's really between three play­ers, and it could have been between three players no one is interested in." 
It all starts to unfold Thursday when the top 30 players tee off at East Lake, where trophies will be award­ed for the winner of the Tour Championship and the FedEx Cup, and the biggest suspense is whether they will go to the same player. 
Rory Sabbatini (No. 4) and 
K.J. Choi (No. 5) have a mathe­matical chance of winning the FedEx Cup, although their odds are long. 
The only damper on this parade is East Lake. 
The course no longer is bursting with autumn colors because the Tour Championship has been moved from the last week of October to the third week in Snptember. And the hot weather has severely damaged the greens, although not nearly to the extnnt that PGA Tour officials warned players last week. 
"They're doser to good than bad, so I'll give them a 6," said Mark Calcavecchia, asked to 

. 
... 
.. . "., .. "·:. 

Tiger Woods, the current FedEx Cup leader, chips out of a bunker Sept. 9 at the BMW Championships. 
grade the greens on a scale of 1 to 10. "I was expecting about a 2, to tell you the truth. And I kind of think that's what thny wanted everyone to think so when we got hem, we wouldn't be shocked. I think everyonn is going to be slightly shocked that .they're as decent as they 
are." 

They still have grass. Players have said they still roll smooth­ly. But because the greens nearly died and the root struc­ture is weak, tuur officials have said they would run at about 9 1/2 on the Stimpmeter. 

g~retfre!]~ 
... TRY OUR NEW 
LATE NIGHT MENU 
, compared to a typieal spned of 11 112. 
Woods had not yet played a praetice round on the 15 holes available -players were kept ofT three of' the greens until Thursday -but said slow greens would favor the poor 
putt1~rs. 

"Think about it," he said. "llow many bad putters have you snnn ovnr thn years win Augusta, the fastest, most slop­ing grenns? It takes emativity, 
~it takns touch. it takns fe1d, and you have to start tlw ball on line with the cor reel. speed." 

Thursday, September 13, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NFL 


No.1 pick Russell ends holdout, signs record deal 
------··-··-·--·· ··-'-'-··-'·--""" 

AP Raiders quarterback JaMarcus Russell walks onto the practice field Wednesday after signing with Oakland and ending his 48-day holdout. 
The 5~ociety for Hun1an Resource lvfanagernent & The Managen1ent Club invites everyone to attend the 

Donnelly Lecture Series in Participatory Management 

~Thomas W. Malone 
•• The Future ofWork" 
Friday, September 14 12:00 -1:15 p.m. 


Jordan Auditoriutn Mendoza College of Business 
Associated Press 

ALAMEDA, Calif. -The hard­est day for JaMarcus Russell during his 48-day contract dis­pute with the Oakland Raiders was the first, when his team­mates reported to training camp and he stayed home. 
Russell then watched all the other first-round rookies sign their multimillion dollar deals, figuring his pay day was coming soon. But Hussell could only work out on his own in Atlanta as his teammates went through training camp, four exhibition games and the season opener without him. 
Russell finally got the chance to join them in person Wednesday after signing a record contract for rookies and ending the longest holdout by the No. 1 overall pick in more than two decades. 
"I know there's a business side of it but I didn't know the busi­ness side was going to happen to me that fast," Russell said. 
Russell has no hard feelings toward the Raiders because of the contract dispute, saying he left the business issues up to his agents. In the end, Hussell was guaranteed a record $29 million in his six-year $61 million deal, according to two people familiar with the talks who spoke on condition of anonymity because the terms were not released. He would get an additional $3 mil­lion if he reaches minimal play­ing time incentives. 
The previous record deal for a rookie was when the Detroit Lions gave No. 2 pick Calvin Johnson $27.2 million in guar­antees this year. Top pick Mario Williams got $26.5 million in guaranteed money a year ago from Houston. 
"Once I signed the contract I did drop a few tears just to know that I'm a blessed per­son," he said. "Very blessed to be in the place I am today and worked hard for it and I can't wait to go out there and work even harder and just to get it." 
While working out on his own, Hussell was in regular contact with quarterbacks coach Johp DeFilippo and also heard occa­sionally from his teammates. He also got some suggestions from the fans in Atlanta, who wanted him to engineer a trade to the Falcons to replace Michael Vick. 
Hussell did participate in two minicamps and other offseason workouts with the Haiders and said he knew the offense well enough to recognize some of the plays while watching the team's opener Sunday against Detroit. But there also were many changes in his time away and he admitted it felt awkward to be back after so much time away. 
He said he's ready to do what­ever his coaches ask of him, whether it's "to be the biggest cheerleader or be that biggest playmaker." The competitive side of him wants to play now, but he knows reality will proba-· bly be very different. 
"I feel like I'm a ways away," he said. "I have the whole year and the rest of my life -that's what it seems like -to get used to everything." 
One interested observer joked that the Raiders should try to capitalize on their investment immediately and start him against Denver on Sunday. 
"I personally think they should start him this week," Denver coach Mike Shanahan said in a conference call with Bay Area writers. "If they're paying him that kind of money they should throw him into the fire and put him in against the Broncos." 
Fat chance that will happen as the Raiders will wait two weeks until they even place Russell on the roster. 

Russell mostly took part in individual drills Wednesday, but also ran some plays for the scout team. Coach Lane Kiffin said he looked in good shape and was not rusty, but said he will have to figure out how to make up for the lost time with extra practices that don't limit the time of the starting quarter­back. 
"He's at a definite disadvan­tage," Kiffin said. "You're talk­ing about hundreds and hun­dreds of reps in preseason and being in games. We can't simu­late what he missed. That's put him in a tough situation." 
Russell earned the spot as the top pick after going 25-4 as LSU's starting quarterback. He finished his career with the Tigers by throwing the second most touchdown passes (52) and having the second highest com­pletion percentage (61. 9 per­cent) in school history. 
But adjusting to the NFL is not easy. The three quarterbacks taken in the first round a year ago all started games last sea­son. But they all were in train­ing camp and played in the exhibition season. Denver quar­terback Jay Cutler, who started the final five games as a rookie last season, said he doesn't believe he ever would have got­ten in if he hadn't participated in training camp. 

"He's an exceptional athlete, exceptional quarterback but it's a position where if you rush somebody in there bad things can happen," Cutler said. "He's going to come along fine but it's going to take a little bit." 
For now, the Raiders are just happy to have their quarterback of the future under contract. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 13, 2007 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Miallli, FlU square off one year after bravvl 
Associated Press 

COI{J\1. <~ABLES, Fla. -Nearly 
a ynar lal!~r. Chris Smith still 
wondnrs how it happnned. 

The former Florida 
lntnrnational player doesn't 

know why lw thrnw Miami's Matt 
Pnrrnlli to thn turf and punched 
him to help spark one of the 
worst on-field brawls in college 

football history. Or why dozens of' 
othnrs starting fighting as well. 
Or why some swung helmets and 
crutches as wnapons. 

Smith wat.dwd the replays that night in his room in shenr disbn­linl', thnn looked at the eeiling and soblwd. lin spent the rnst of' tho wnnknnd in solitude, trying to f'iguro what wnnt wrong. lie's still pondnring that one. 
"I rmnnrnhor thinking it would bn a slight confrontation," said Smith, whose collnge career nndnd that night; he was kicked oiT FlU's tnam two days later. "And lmlim~ I knew it, nverything just happPrwd. I was like, whoa! This thing got way out of hand." 
In all, :~I players -18 from FlU, I:~ f'rorn Miami-were sanetiorwd for the fight. which marrnd the first meeting bntwnnn th1~ programs separated by 9 111 iIns in South Florida. Most of' thoso :~I playnrs will bn in uni­form Saturday, when the teams mnnt again at the Orango Bowl. 
Both teams have made the samn vow: Another fight cannot, and will not. happon. 
"Nobody thought last year would bn that type of deal," Miami coach Handy Shannon said. "But it was." 
If' this worn a rn~-,rular week, the storylines would be easy. 
FlU's first-year coach Mario Cristobal is facing his alma rnall~r. a school where he coached until last December. Shannon will sm~ his son, Xavier, starting on FlU's oll'ensive line. Miami safety Kenny Phillips' brother Jarvis Wilson plays at FlU. 
Of' eoursn, all thosn are over­shadownd by the events of Oct. 
14. 

"It's like a forest lire," Miami athlelie director Paul Dee said. 
"You never plan on it. ... And it starts in a flash." 
That night started, oddly enough, with some sportsman­ship: Miami and FlU's bands con­grngatnd at midlield and playnd "Amnriea th11 Beautiful." 
But the problems were already starting. 
The Hurricanes said an FlU 
player deliberately ran into a 
Miami player during warmups. 

There were plenty of hits after 
the whistle as the night went 

along, with some of those labeled 
by both sides as cheap shots. 

Verbal taunting was a constant. 
"Usually when it gets to that point, refs step in and stop it," Smith said. "But it happened so fast, it pro.?ably caught them off­guard too. 
With 9 minutes left in the third quarter, as Smith said, "the cof­fee pot started overnowing." 
Miami's Kyle Wright threw a touchdown pass to James Bryant, who pointed at the FlU sideline as he scored and took a theatrical bow toward the stands. FlU players reacted angrily, and after Jon Peattie kieknd the extra point, the tight was on. 
"There was a lot of extra stuff going on that really nobody wants to talk about, a lot of stuff that's between the whistles that's not caught on all the cameras," Smith said. ''I'm not pointing any lingers. It takes two to tango. But enough was enough. He took that bow and it was very disre­
spl~etful." 
Smith attacked Perrelli, Miami's holder who was then kicked in the head by cornerback Marshall McDuffie -who was dismissed from the team with Smith but is still an FlU student. McDuflie declined an interview request, only saying he wants to put the situation behind him. 
The fracas escalated quickly; even Miami's chaplain was struck during the melee. 
"It was awful," Miami defen­sive end Calais Campbell said. "We're out here to play football. We're not here to fight. I didn't really know what was happening at first." 


A bit ofIreland in 
your own backyard. 
' s 


Just seconds from campus. With it<> many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven night'> a week, too. 
(Waterfurd f..st.ates LDdge h.as hate! rooms at re.asonable rates tOr upcoming ND fuotball weekends.) 
Waterford 
estates lodge 
52890 S.R. 933, just north of the Notre Dame campus and minutes from downtown South Bend. Call toll free at 877-783-8496 or online at www. waterfordestateslodge.com. 


CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN




STUDENTS 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Melanie (Mel) Bautista, Baustista.5@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; dis~ussion and support) 
Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
Un.iversity Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 

Thursday, September 13, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

Rink 
continued from page 20 
director of athletics Kevin White said. "It's going to hap­pen, we're going to get it done." 
University policy requires 100 percent of funds be com­mitted and 7 5 percent on hand before the actual planning and construction begins. The goal is for the final arena budget to be somewhere in the range of $25-30 million. 
Other fundraising efforts have raised $7.5 million, so the project is only a few million away from where the athletic department hopes to be. The major donation is also expected to help bring in other benefac­tors now that it is clear that the project will be underway soon. 
No time frame has been olli­cially set at this point, but Jackson hopes that the funds will be in place to move for­ward by winter break. 
But the 11nished product is still a long way off. and it would be impossible to predict a date for the opening at this point. 
Senior Associate Athletic Director John Heisler said the facility would remain in the north dome of the Joyce Center rather than being a stand­alone arena, and other plans were never seriously consid­ered. 
Jackson was happy to be staying in the building for mul­tiple reasons. The third-year coach thinks the location is in the right proximity to the other athletic complexes on campus, as well as to most of the stu­dent body. The existing builld­ing will also make construction quicker and cheaper.. 
"That money can go a lot fur­ther if we already have a roof and a foundation to work with," Jackson said. 
Although the address will 

STUDENTS 
Transportation Services will be offering two L)river Training Sessions in September. 
If you haYe not attended a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented V{~hicle, you must attend a Driver Training session BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday, September 9th and September 16th, at 7:00pm in Room 102 of Debartolo Hall. 
The session will last approximately 30 minutes. Please bring your drivers license and a pen 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, faculty, and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. See our website at: transportation.nd.edu 
If you have any questions on the Driver Training sessions or the Motor Pool you may contact Transportation Services at 631-6467 
stay the same, the athletic department says the arena will be a whole new place. The plan is to remodel the Fieldhouse to make the rink the main feature rather than the side note that it often appears to be now. 
"We've historically treated that whole north dome as an area to host a lot of other events," Heisler said. "It was as much of a multi-purpose facili­ty as the campus had." 
White and Jackson have dis­cussed a very general concept of the environment they want to create when the rink is com­plete. The new arena will be more comfortable for the team and the fans by including more accessible restrooms, conces­sions, new locker rooms and better seating arrangements. 
'Td like to see them put the fans right on top of us," Jackson said. "Make it a friend­ly place for us but an intimidat­ing place for any opponents." 
Last season the Irish lost only two of their 17 home games in a wide open, below-par arena that held fewer than 3,000 peo­ple. Jackson hopes that the new stands will be able to hold roughly 1,000 more in an inti­mate setting where the fans can feel part of the action. 
The team's CCHA title and trip to the NCAA quarterfinals last year undoubtedly helped in the speed and grandeur of the project, but the plan to reno­vate the arena has been in place since before Jackson's arrival in South Bend. 
The rink is one part of a major overhaul that White and the rest of the athletic depart­ment have been working on for several years. 
"It has been a matter of look­ing at the big picture and try­ing to figure out what makes sense for our various sports within the whole campus envi­ronment," Heisler said. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurph@nd.edu 
MLB 

Ortiz clubs walk-off bomb 
Yankees beat Blue Jays behind strong start from Mussina 
Associated Press 

BOSTON -David Ortiz hit a two-run homer in the ninth inning that barely cleared the low right-field wall-eluding a twisting Delmon Young -and lifted the Boston Red Sox over the Tampa Bay Devil Rays 5-4 Wednesday night. 
Ortiz homered twice and drove in all five runs as the Red Sox held their five-game edge over New York in the AL East. The Yankees open a three-game series at Fenway Park on Friday night. 
Julio Lugo drew a leadoff walk from AI Reyes (2-3) and one out later, with fans standing and hoping for Ortiz to get another big hit, he delivered. 
Young appeared to have a chance to catch it, but he ran too far toward the Pesky Pole. Reversing direction, Young arrived too late as the ball fell in AP the stands behind him. ' Red Sox designated hitter David Ortiz celebrates with teammates 
Red Sox players poured from after hitting a walk-off home run to beat Tampa Bay S4 Wednesday. 

the dugout and surrounded Ortiz after his 10th game-win­ning homer with Boston, and his first this year. 
Jonathan Papelbon (1-2) got the win. 
A night after the Devil Rays wasted an 8-1 lead and lost 16­10, they blew a 4-0 edge. 
Ortiz began Boston's come­back, hitting a three-run homer after a single by Lugo and a walk to Dustin Pedroia in the third inning. That gave Ortiz his 30th homer and 102 RBis-he has reached 30 homers and at least 100 RBis in all five of his East. 

Mussina (9-10) was dropped from the rotation in late August after allowing 19 earned runs over 9 2/3 innings in three straight losses. He made one relief appearance after that, his first ever in a regular-season game. 
"It's a lot more satisfying today, coming out of the game, than it was those other starts," Mussina said. "When I look back on this year, those three games are probably going to ruin my year. I've got to live with that and move on from it." 
With Roger Clemens nursing a sore elbow, Mussina made his first start since Aug. 27 and gave up five singles in 5 2-3 innings. He struck out one, walked three and won for the first time since Aug. 11 at Cleveland. 
"I had some movement on my pitches," Mussina said. "I was able to get in on people. When I got them to a two-strike count I could expand the zone a little bit and get some ground balls or fly balls. The stuff that I couldn't do before, I was able to do today." 
Torre said he would discuss Mussina's status with pitching coach Ron Guidry after Clemens throws in the bullpen before Thursday's series fmale. 


:Se:m.:i~t'!la:r: i:lrl: /\.mu-:'k:-e-·u··-i:ca=n: ..4 ~,./1:{:>-'t..:{t_~-:· J'iii.~_f'.~-;>.,. :l"J·:J.:e· .L~Jic. c-.~f·1·f''";f.ifil:..l!.~n· .•.h:::·.•.n:n:i.r:r:.g_-...""i. .t.t;!f.~:~~..==·a.n (Ko1opf~ 2.006) 
. 'Hy 
.'~"~':t'.i=ch.~~~I J<.·k~-.£i.t9t (_._.ie%:::-et'·get:c,.~~~·t!i t):ni,.../·c:r:s:i~ ~y=­
-~~·-,I(.~J:,k·~::{~-:::ry...··;.-. 5:t·,;p~'t.Y::~.?-=~·h·;;1·:~-.l5, 2'.(i·{}-7'' 
~ ><"'-<:!~ n·..t·, ·· N'~'";.-,oi<"t 
.~'1-.-l>'i:'-~*:,.~q~:'·~~c:.<;-:.t .!l'.s.v»II (.7-x;;.~~.J.·"J~~.r~"'r.irfpr ·C'~~hrJ.£-~r~.~-u-.lng 1--~:d.~.,-o.~-::.-.,-':.i.fio;r..'f. 
seasons with Boston. 

Ortiz tied Jimmie Foxx for sec­ond in club history with five consecutive 30-home run sea­sons; Manny Ramirez has six straight. 
Boston starter Jon Lester pitched 3 2-3 innings, his sec­ond-shortest outing in nine starts for Boston. But four relievers held the Devil Rays to just one hit -a single by .Josh Wilson in the eighth -in 5 1-3 innings. 
Tampa Bay wasted no time continuing its hitting from the 
previous game. 
Yankees 4, Blue Jays 1 

Two weeks after he was dropped from the rotation, Mike Mussina made a strong pitch to rejoin the starting five. 
Mussina pitched shutout ball into the sixth inning and the New York Yankees won their seventh straight game, beating the Toronto Blue Jays Wednesday night. 
"He was terrific," Yankees manager Joe Torre said. "He stayed ahead most of the night. I'm just really pleased and I know he's happy about it." 
The Yankees held their four­game lead over Detroit in the AL wild-card race. They trail Boston by five games in the AL 
..
. 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 13, 2007 
-Donor 
continued from page 20 
rink hw; now balloonnd to $25­$:{() million, making it impossible notlo dnsign mr arma Umt will mmpntn with thP bl~st in the eoun­try. 

( lnly two months ago, the Univnrsity had tried. wiUwut sue­cnss. fill' at lml'>t thrnn years to find a donor willing to pony up $7.5 million to kickstart thP funding drivo. Irish mach .Jdl'.Jackson said in thn spring hn was eonfidnnt a lnad donor would Ill~ filLmd soon. But two years had passed sinen .Jackson W<L'> hired and told that 1110111~y fiw a rww rink would f'ully bn in place within two or tlm~n years-in a bnst-ea.<i!l scenario. 
lin told n~cruil'> tlrey would play in a nnw rink wdl bl~fill'n they graduatml if' tlrey eommilt.nd to Notm Damn. Sub-par fhcilities wnrn thn only lit.ilin).,'S .Jackson had to gloss ovnr filr recruil'>-his national chmnpionship pedi!,rree and turnaround of tlw Irish over thn pa'>t two sna'itms took earn of tho rnst. 

lin got Urn bl~st dw;s in thn muntry. 
1\nd now, hn ha'> his <mma. The f'rnshrnnn hn made a promisn to will. fill' at lmL'>t a ynar, play on iee that donsn 't mdt or get taknn out to makn room fill' baton-twirling mrnpntit.ions. (Oh ymth, that hap­pmmd.l 
Thn invisible bl•nnlhct.or stopped lhrward. and through his public lll<L'>k stm-t.Pd thn proms.<; to dear Urn la.'>t ugly hlmnish that remains otr Urn pro).,>Tam's fiu~n. It's a procnss tJrat will takn SIW!wal ynars. but af'tnr it's don1~ it will bn likn trying to imagirH' Barry 
Al01a 
continued from page 20 
f'aens of' our supportive SMC vollnyhall fans." Sasgnn said. 
Sasgnn also praisnd her vnt­nran tnammatns. who have constantly provich•d lt~adnrship l'or thn youngnr plclYilrS, slw said. 
"Ttw uppnrdassrnnn always play with heart and intnnsity, and are always challenging nadr ot.lwr to b!' a b!'tler play­l'r." Sasgnn said. "Likn thn saying gons, you only gnt as rrHH'h out of' sorrwthing as you put into it, and that is a com­mon undnrstanding lwtween all of' us. Wt~ will all mntimw 




Belles 

continued from page 20 
llart k1~pt constant pres­surn on thn Calvin dnf'nnse. making it difficult for them to gd an offnnsivl' rhythm start.nd from tlw back. 
In tlr n l'i r s t h a If. Ca I vi n dominatNI possnssion in the rniddiP third of' thl' f'inld. <)uick and dPcisivl' onP-touc:h passing allowPd tlu~ Knights to work tht' ball down into t.lw attack arl'a, but tho Saint Mary's dni'Pnso was stout, allowing l'nw dirnrt shots to rPadr Mahorwy. Tlw Calvin 111 i d f'i o I d t' r s. In d by junior Midrnlln Kooln, worn rolnnt­IPss in bringing down !i0/50 balls and challt•nging any touches Saint Mary's had in tl1n middll' of' tiH• f'ipfd. 
But thP dominance in tlw middle third nPVt'r translat­ed into goals f'or Calvin. and its advantagP disappnarnd a f't. n r h a 11'1. i 111 n. T lw B o II o s r.anw out of' tlw hrPa k swing-Molrosn wit.l10ut a mullet. 
It wa'> tlm donor's choic1~ not to nwnal his identity. <md he is not intnrnstnd in muning the nnw rink aflnr hinL'>df'. Jackson said. I Ie ha'> a connnction with the University, but to what extent and how deep, no one will say. 
lie dnserves recognition tor his generosity and should have every right to name it afler hirnselfifhe so chose. The humble gift, howev­er, wa<; a weleorne surprise after la<>t year's red carpet and rose petal introduction of Phillip J. Purcoll III. the $12.5 million lead donor fbr tire basketball arena mnovation. 
Purcell sat behind his micro­phone on tl1e ba<>ketball court in Oct.obnr and scowled while University leaders praised his thiek money dip, fattened from years prowling t.l1e financial mar­kets. Director ofAthletics Kevin White cozied up to Purcell, saying, "My sem;e is that Father Ned Joyce is smiling down upon you, Phil." Somehow, I highly doubt that. 
Hockey's donor matched Purcnll. then threw in another $2.5 million to make sure the icers got everything they needed -and then some. For him, it wa<>n'tjLL'>t ablmt getting a name on a build­ing; it was about helping a pro­!,>Tarn in desperate need of finan­eial backing. 
Notrn D<une's benefactor dnsnrves to be thanked by every long-sum1ring Irish hockey fan, but good luck trying to find him. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obseruer. 
Contact Kyle Cassi(lf at kcassily<S3'nd. ecfu 
to challenge each other during practice as well as off the court.· 
"That is the SMC volleyball experience." 
Saint Mary's has now won two straight, a couple of small steps toward meeting its expectations. 
"We will keep fighting to play at our level of play every single game," Sasgen said, "and du averything as a team to reach the goals we have set ourselves early on this sea­son." 
The Belles will host 1\lma at 7 tonight at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
ing, with the midfield and offensive units successfully advancing the ball down the field. 
While thn Belles recorded only one shot, Ilart and !Iiggins made life dirtieult for tho Calvin defense. Both playnrs broke through with the ball on multiple occa­sions, forcing Calvin defond­ors to scramble to make a stop. 
Overall. MacKenzie was satisf'ind with the Bellns' per­forrnancn. 
"I could not be more plnasnd with the result," MacKnnzin said. "We're feel­ing pretty good about the pf'fort. It was definitely a moral victory for us, and we liko our chances in the eon­f'nroncn with healthy bodies." 
Tho Bellns will be back in action this woekend in the North Cnntral tournament in Napnrvilln, Ill. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
giate tennis tllis weekmrd. in the Hound of' 16 through the And the level of eompctition will finals in tlrn NCM h'>t ynar." 

Tennis 
continued from page 20 
Senior Andrew Roth, who has been repeatedly praised by Bayli'>S. will frll the No. 3 slot on the Irish roster. 
While the team returns several experienced players, five of the 10 players slated to make the trip to Chicago are freshmen. David Anderson, Tyler Davis, Dan Stahl, Stephen Havens and Matt Johnson will all get their first taste of colle­not provide an easy transition lilr the new players. 
The weekend's opponents include Illinois, whil::h beat the Irish last year and Jinishnd No. 2 in tlm coun­try; Miami, a team returning several starters from last year's ranked squad; and 1\labama, which was al<>o ranked llighly throughout last season. 
''[It's a] great opportunity for our team to get a chance to play some really good teams," Bayliss said. "Miami and three other teams were 
In addition to the tough opposi­tion, the Irish will have to contend with day courts -not their usual surface. 
"The tournament is bdng playnd at a historic dub and it's the only college eVimt on day Jiw LL'> all y1~ar. which should be an adventure, while it will be a more fiuniliar sur­face for the other teams," Bayliss said. 
Contact Jay Wade at jwade@nd.edu 
•Italian 
•Steak &Cheese


SUb Choose ~rom 
•
Ham &Cheese 

•
Chicken Club 

•
Veggie 

•
Pizza Melt



99 EACH Free Delivery On Campus 
Minimum Order $8.00 For Delivery 
limited time offer. Prices, ta~ delivery areas &charges may vary by location. Excludes other offers. Good at participating locations only. 

~_2J~~v~~n~~~. 574·243•1122 
SERVING NOTRE DAME &ST. MARY'S 
OPEN FOR LUNCH DAILY 
02007 Marco's Fran(hising, LLC 5642(1)ND-807 

~ro1.1.love nee-:ls help 1~ednll. 
C...uj;dm.~.tNJ P'~-~"''if: ..-m.f.J <'$!1iit;t~ ..-m.oarl& at z..r.,nlf5 DofV11/f51 
• ~ _le.UiL l.elll-4t o~. ~L...t .Aiim."t:,.l-~40~ 
»-,or.~l-.tA~,I-~19 
Dilo-.,C'.taa:r• .M'xlt:h::fr 1-~6.j $wle.-P~, Co~h.1 Ce:~~.tM·, 1-4.:J6.S: 
~-----------------·---------·----------------------------~-------~------------------------­
Thursday, September 13, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JruJ/MJID)1JR
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
YUSUR 


I (J

©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 

That's the fourth time they beat us



f~FflxJ 
ORHRRO riJ b 
WHEN HE: L-OST n-Il= HOT AIR BAL-L-OON RA.CE:,
www.jumble.com 
HE: BECAME: A--­
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer:" rI I I]" [II I I] 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: ORBIT TESTY SAILOR TANKER Answer: What the recruit did when bayonet training began -TOOK A "STAB" AT IT 
EUGENIA LAST 




HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Emmy Rossum, 21; Yao Ming, 27; Benjamin McKenzie, 29; Paul Walker, 34 
Happy Birthday: Try not to take life too seriously this year. Be smart and stop wasting your time, effort and money. You have plenty of talent that can be put to much better use. Now is the time to revamp your life, your direction and your future. Your numbers are 7,10,26,29,31,43 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Don't look at the negative when a positive is in the picture, as welL You have to deal with issues head-on. Travel may be riddled with delays, detours and challenges but, if you take your time and know your route, you can overcome any setbacks. 3 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can make some serious choices today that can influence your future professionally and personally. Don't give in to sob stories or people pressuring you to spend or make a donation. Be practical and responsible. 3 stars GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Things are looking up and, as long as you don't let your responsibilities drag you down, you will enjoy your day. Someone may need your help but don't go overboard. Be creative in your endeavors and you will at­tract interest in what you are trying to accomplish. 5 stars CANCER (June Zl·Jnly 22): Family gatherings, get-togethers and outings will make your day. You can resolve unf"mished business through honest communica­tion. It will all depend on the way you word things today. Be understanding and compassionate. 4 stars LEO (Jnly 23-Aug. 22): You can charm your way in or out of anything today. Your presence will be what makes the difference in the outcome of any situation you face today. Love is on the rise. 3 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Get to the bottom of things without hesitation. The longer you wait or let things fester, the harder it will be to deal with everyone around you. Situations will escalate and tempers will flare if you aren't quick to clear up matters. 3 stars LmRA (Sept. 23-0et. 22): Be sensitive, passionate and creative in your ap­proach to others. You will be emotional about personal and family issues but will come up with viable solutions, making you the hero, Put time aside for love. 3 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your willingness to help others will bring favors back when you need them. Don't be afraid to make changes to your personal life or to relegate responsibilities to those who should be doing more. It will be up to you to hand out duties and timelines. 3 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dee. 21): You can make some noteworthy suggestions that will help you out professionally. Thinking big will attract attention but it doesn't necessarily mean that you need to do everything all at once. Baby steps with big vision will work long-term. 4 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put your efforts into closing deals or checking out investments. You can make some excellent decisions if you talk to people in the know. A short trip or conversation with someone you admire will reveal what's actually going on. Take heed of advice given. 2 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You have a chance to make, flnd, come into or win cash today. Thoughts must be followed by actions. If you can visualize some­thing, you can work toward making it happen. Don't be afraid to make a change and turn things in your favor. 5 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-Mareh 20): You'll be drawn in a direction that may not be the best for you. Reevaluate your motives and the pros and cons of moving forward. Emotions will be running high and tempers are likely to get out ofcontroL Pro­ceed with caution. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You have strength, courage and charm. You are hardworking, dedicated and quick to make adjustments. You are a lover, a flirt and a passionate person. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLACK DoG 

DEUCES MANOR MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 

Weak Punchline RICH PROTIVA AND ANDY SPANGLER 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 


CROSSWORD 
.HAl'-• 

'l•lhiz 13 Pr'-"ix Y.•ith m1ct1.1re 
11 IGr~l ;-J ir.stilr.t 1<1-r.1me.11pd-s: 
oS>.hnb 1S llmwi: 1C~ 1~~ZI2 U2top 10 
I~ 
17 "SI-.V-!!o ., l~j!' 19 B.ll<'f oo. ~-, r.l::-tl'!o!'lr'-s: o.,.,. 
~· ~-·«•''lily 21 T"'"ttM of~=-·~ w.s:ting 
2:3 T«fiv..l)• ~) 1h~ fiH-Ali111n 
~-.i.-~.111'1 
2S .".lt«l'.mi·~ to v.. &.ng« 
~ SdHiq\~e.tfor 
a-,.:t"lo!'l'l' v. wi:h 
'II··~· 
28 &Kide;r~i' 
d...,·,![r.'-.;oo•.r~ 
30 Yo~1 mi~-.t {!« in tl~.-; >'It 4'!•;)fk 
31 St.n ;-J m"' tt 
,",r"'!~o r..,ll•~-s: 
32C:O"'r d·i·~·,l~t Se41to!'lld ~-, ·~oeoi•fel•:r 
:Hfie<ri:lue 
30Geo I~· 38Ayre;;;who pllil')l'!'dfimdom'-s: Dr. IGid,,r~ 
40G.:t •::4"• <1-11iro!o:l-loc•lcirg 42Unt of pmid-.ue~"rl: m 
~., 
44 C01'11'il~) •::OU de-::'>"!I 
4S B.,.W-!!<1:1:o11'111 cha·np'.-; 

48 Ri•J« th'OI.I,:j'• 
tl·~ 8!:-..j~)~ d 
Am SO L•::.s:e fr~me•Q!; S2 Oa~ ol'i:G!!-.:Iilg 
11'1r•:>•.nd 
m~··•-1l1e!'o~ 
Stl--.li!o« 
S8 r.l..t~ S8 Sc(1rd 01.rt'? 131 St~·mll'!or i1.·, 
C'l•.;5h«:· 132 i=111n·n !eo-tWr~ 133Pir.t~r~ 
13<1-BI: ofli~"lt GS r.lcr~ ro::~;tid) _1313 V~1_, p(t·do...m 
ll>+'>W 1 Prefix ,.,,It!·, 
phone 2 s,.Jo!<« ·:rir~~ 
...................... 
d~\!ctimd 
.IUJBWI!R TO PRI!VIOUSPQZ:L!. 
Nil'!o!'l'~·, 
.-;inC>e~tl·~ H\SO>!<' 

3 L•.;:li.:/>!<' ire
o!O'O\fi~rjr <1-Didnghi~\iglt
<1-13 '::lo bonk«~; 

S Pre-ph« v.ollO <l-7'Nmhotl w••.wo!< pr~o:ict>!;d 1:l·~ 
WILLSHORTZ 

Pla::::dl!, il'} r-i¢111111 Oiii~'RI 
213 Ur.:•::lYlb~:l Q'l)l 27~r->S'!·..,ped j:o11'1rt d 111 gr~ 28 S:•l'(p.>.•rit«~ horoo 
:::~R«:M~ ~ l..'l~!·,oJ·..:-d 
34-So1\l'!o fr..t«rit'l 
1"!"1'!1<1'1 

35 o~rdl4'!rf:J~ 11'11'~1 
ho<.•) 
37S~.p~r 
39Elol:>ed:G ol-3 Vaco.IU'II 
<1-13 f!.athr>;,!>Obs;_i~ 
Dia·, 
<I-71C[d~·, OC•..t <1-8 B~d> •::pti~·, 
<l->.IL~ SOO>j~:t d 111 

~'l,~ll't'~ (~!e.~ S 1 F...-m ~:>i>5' S3 G-Mt, in d.-,1-.,:J 55V se •__ &1hy' 
i,'H>'Iir" <ro!"(l) S7 8twl;.am p1111t 130 Eq(""'· in .., ''-'"'' 
F•:t 0n9.VI'lf>!<', .:.,,II 1·000.2ES-:;f;;SI3, ~ 1. <!! 111 n1mrt:...-, or, •.•fth 11'1 ored~ •;)11'if(t 1-000~~ 14-SS54 Aill"l-1.-. ~.II:<!'Orip1ior.s: ...-~ 11'i'J~iklb~ for the b>Mt of &1!'.:111'1}' oro"'.wrd·~ fromtl·,eo 111'1~ ro }'~r~ 1-8~-7-.A.c:ROSS. Onbe 9-!b-.;:ooptior..s:: "f.:,d.,.j'-s: j:O.Izzle 1111-.:l mor.:o 1ll111l 2,000 J:o11'1~ 1:-.lzzleo-.;:, r!]tim~ ~·nioro=.wrd-.; (,~9-~S 11'1 ;-eo.:t":l. s-•...-~.np~ IYrtim~ o;)<:l4Ylip•.lzzle<f•:XUI'I1. Cr>::·=·'''r<ko: ·br ~'''-ll"(l ~:her~ n:,iimeo:;;.e<)ll1Ae.:t"llil"(l·~-'"-'r'k:. 

.... 
THE OBSERVER 





PORTS
Thursday, September 13, 2007 
page 20 
HocKEY 


Unnamed donor pledges $15 million 
Tentative plans call for more comfortable rink within JACC 
By DAN MURPHY 
AsS<Kiate Sports Ediwr 

In tlw past nino months. Notrn Damn has put up somn irnprns­sivt~ numbnrs: 32 n~gular sea­son vktorins. 143 goals sc.owd. a 1.7 goals-against avnragn and fiv1~ wonks as the top-ranked Loam in tho nation. 
Tlw Irish can now add 15 to that list -as in the $15 million anonymous donation toward a planrwd rww arena, announced Wndnesday by the Notrn Dame al.hletir. dnpartnwnt. 
The rnuch-dnsin~d irnprove­nwnts have bnen a goal of the athletic department for a long time. Last ynar's succnss. along with tho promise of good things to come from Irish coach .Jeff .Jackson and his team. cnmted enough buzz to bring in tho nec­nssary funds to turn those hopes into a reality. 
"Notrn Damn is snriously com­mittnd to creating an absolutely f'irst-ratn ice hockey fadlity," 
see RINK/page 17 

Benefactor deserves thanks for quiet gift 
A donor gave $15 million. straight up. toward Notre Damn's new hock­ey arena Wednnsday, and no one out<>ide tho athletic departmnnt may evnr know his namn. 
lie gave a sum that would maim most million­aires wring their wallot<>. lledid it without the fawningdr­eusof University ollkials that atumded a similar annow1m-. ment last lall li>r the basketball arona renova­tions. He did it in the dark, through an impersonal pres..<; relnase that revealnd little of the importance tho announcement carried. 
Before John Doe dropped a eool nickel and dime spot into the mno­vation of the north domn, plans called lor a total budget of$15 mil­lion. The overhaul of tim decrepit 

Kyle Cassily 

Sports Writer 
see DONOR/page 18 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles look to continue vvinning vvays against Alllla 
The triumph over Olivet "We need to really work on this next challenge." Sasgen said the Belles will tryBy SAMANTHA LEONARD moved the Belles to 1-2 in con­our court chatter and need a lot Freshman middle blocker to feed oil' of' the crowd's energy
Sports Writer 

ference play and 4-6 overall. more talk out there," Belles Andrea Sasgen provided some tonight. 
Alma lost to Kalamazoo in five coach Julie Schroeder-Biek of that much-needed intensity "I love playing in an environ­
Aller its lirst MIAA vietory. a games Tuesday, dropping to 0-2 said. "Alma is a team that looks against Olivet. hitting the win­ment whmn you rncognize the ronvinl"ing :1-0 (30-17. ]0-liJ in the MIM and 4-6 overall. a lot more like us -a pretty ning point to seal the Comets' people on tho blnadwrs, work­:l0-271 win owr Olivnt Tw~sday, Saint Mary's hopes to use balanced attacking and block­fate. ing the score, book. line judg­Saint Mary's looks to kenp solid communication and ing Iteam!. We will need to lift Sasgen also had three service ing, and sn1dng the familiar rolling at lwnw tonight against prnparation to its advantage our game and pick up our aces in the Belles' win over Alma. against the Scots. intensity. I am very excited for Geneva College Saturday. see ALMA/page 18 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish begin with challenge 
By JAY WADE 
Sports Writer 
Allor losing snvnral kny playnrs from last ynar's tlmm to gradua­tion. Notr1~ DamP lu~ads into iL<; lh.ll SP<L'ion opener today witl1 a crop of highly l.outPd lh•shmPn, <L'i wnll as a gaping holP at it<; No. I singh~s spot. 
"Wp'rn young ami im~xptwiencnd. hut tlwn•'s talPnt horn, and we lii'Pd to makn sum WP do a good job of' working tlu~~ J...'UYS in," Irish com:h Bob Baylis..<; said. "lltst ynar with stmiors WP got to drink wine. This year, wn're going to piek graptls." 
Tlw Irish travel to Chil:ago to competn in tlw Olympic Fields Invitational today. and tlwy hope tlw tournanwnt will help sort out who will inlu·rit tlw top spt>t in the lirwup. 
I liSt year's No. I singlllS player, then-senior Stnphen Bass, was ranked in the national top 10 all i<L'lt season. 


The burden of that loss will be somewhat eased by senior Sheeva Parbhu and junior Brett Helgeson. who played at Nos. 2 and 3, 
rnspnctively, last season. The pair will rotate in the top spot through­out the fall season to determine who will lead the squad in the spring. 
see TENNIS/page 18 
SMC SocCER 

Tealll fights Calvin to scoreless draw at hollle 
By CHRIS DOYEN 
Sports Writer 

Despitfl losing four major contributors to injury and ill­ness, Saint Mary's played 2006 MIAA champion Calvin to a 0-0 tie Wednesday. The Belles' record moves to 3-1-1, and the Knights are now 2-3­1. 
Both teams struggled to find chances throughout the game as the defensive units occa­sionally bent but nevpr broke. Calvin out-shot Saint Mary's 14-1, but the number of quali­ty scoring opportunities was similar -and small -for both teams. Belles coach Caryn MacKenzie sang the praises of her defense. 
"We did a really good job of getting in front of' shots in the back," MaeKnnzie said. "And Isenior goalkeepnr I Amy Mahoney made sonw grPat saves." 
Mahoney was solid all day and was challenged repeated­ly in thn second half. Calvin attackers blasted a couple of' shots directly toward the top corners or thn nnt. but Mahoney moved from post to post to maintain the shutout. She made five saves in her third shutout of the season. 
With two of her starting for­wards out, MacKenzie moved senior defender J ustinP Higgins into an attacking rolfl. !Iiggins and freshman Corissa 
see BELLES/page 18 





