
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 21 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER25, 2007 

Council passes revised ordinance 
Community coalition formed; party registration rules not enforced unless necessary in future 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Editor 
This time, they voted. 
The South Bend Common Council passed an amended form of the party permit ordinance Monday, drawing upon months of debates about ofT eampus par­tics and, incnmsingly, dialogue between eity and University voic­es about a wider range of shared issues. 
The approved ordinance details -but does not aetivate -rules which would require residents of boarding houses to obtain a permit before hosting 25 or more guests who would have aceess to alcohol. The bill defines a boarding house as a residentially zoned building where more than two people live together. Residents would have to apply for a permit five days in advance. 
Residents would not be n~quired to register any parties unless the Common Council votes them into effect. Both Couneil member AI "Buddy" Kirsits, a sponsor of the bill, and South Bend Mayor Stephen Luecke said future student behavior will determine whether that happens. 
"If we find we're not overrun with obnoxious, raucous parties we may never need to implement it," Luecke said Monday. "If we have difficulties, then the Council 
see RULING/page 8 

Gates Foundation gives ND $20 million 
Award for malaria research by professor ranks in top 10 single grants in University history 

Year: 2005 * Global Development: $138,792 Global Health: $843,742 United States: $373,794 Total Grants paid: $1,356,328 Year: 2006 * Global Development: $170,304 Global Health: $916,339 United States: $475,871 Total Grants paid: $1,562,514 
'~----~»~~~ Da~·ivcd a $20 million global health grant in 200~. 
Jt ~ l .Hl:s&~.\.~ ~>s> F 1.:' nd ~" 
?·~ -...,.... t ~$~ @J '~? ~~ ·~ ~ p~ r-~''' ~ ;>.;· 
•.., ';::< '" 
MADELINE NIES/Observer Graphic 
By KATIE KOHLER Saint Mary's Editor 

The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation awarded a $20 mil­lion grant to the University for a five-year research initiative to combat the causes and transmis­sion of malaria -a disease that kills more than one million people eaehyear. 
The grant is one of the largest in University history, said Dennis Brown, assistant vice president fbr news and information. 
The researeh initiative will be directed by Frank Collins, a bio­logical sciences professor and director of Notre Dame's Center for Global Health and Infectious Disea'ies. 
"Global health is one of the focal points of the Gates Foundation, and they obviously thought Professor Collins' work was of value," Brown said. 
Collins and his team began working on their proposal nearly a year and a half ago, he said. 
"We proposed to do researeh in something we're qualified to do . , . where we can use our strengths to answer important questions." 
The Gates Foundation is known for awarding grants to research 
see GATES/page 8 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Hilton Inn opens for business 
Delayed opening does not hinder reservations 
By KATIE KOHLER Saint Mary's Editor 
The Hilton Garden Inn opened for business Thursday, three weeks later than expect­ed. The hotel, which began construction in August 2006, was originally set to open in time for the Notre Dame home opener against Georgia Tech. 
The hotel, located on Douglas Road, has 100 rooms, many of which were occupied this weekend. 
"Business was strong this week and we were extremely happy with the turnout," General Manager Jim Benak said. "We didn't sell out, but we didn't really plan to either. We had large crowds for din­ner after the game and many people visiting who hadn't been back to campus in a while." 
The Hilton began taking reservations about two and a half weeks ago, Benak said. 
The hotel, which is less than a block away from the Inn at Saint Mary's, has several amenities, sueh as a full serv­ice restaurant. Bistro 933, an upscale casual restaurant, is an "American culinary road trip," Benak said. "The menu features American cuisine from different parts of the country." 
Junior Emily Tarnacki dined at the restaurant following the 
see HILTON/page 4 


Panel addresses lack of tnedia trust 
Gallivan advisors discuss increase in biased news online, on T. V 
By CLAIRE REISING 
News Writer 
Publie eonfidence in the media and decline in reader­ship are two of the major prob­lems fadng journalists today, Proli1ssor Hobert Sehmuhl said at the forum "Confidence in .Journalism: Hegaining Public Trust" Monday. 
The panel featured journal­ists on the advisory eommittee of Notre Dame's John W. Gallivan Program in .Journalism, Ethics and Demoeracy. 
Schmuhl, direetor of the Gallivan program, introduced the forum yesterday in McKenna I I all by contrasting 
see PANEL/page 4 




NDSP arrest 18 at Stadium Saturday 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
Police made several arrests Saturday and ejected people from Notre Dame Stadium for aleohol-related offenses, said Phil Johnson, the director of the Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP). 

NDSP, working with the Indiana Excise Police, the St. Joseph County Police and the South Bend Police, issued 18 arrest tiekets to adults and two to juveniles for alcohol-related offenses including minor con­suming or minor in possession of alcohol, Johnson said in an e­mail Monday. 
Police made three custodial 
arrests and 15 arrests for the 
same at the Stadium for public 
intoxication, Johnson said. 
Those arrested were taken to 
the St. Joseph County Jail. 
Twenty-two people were ejeet­
ed from the stadium for alcohol­
related violations of Stadium 
rules, Johnson said. 
In addition, one "No Trespass" 
notice was issued to a person 
who refused to stop tailgating 
during the Notre Dame­
Michigan State game. 
Johnson said NDSP will con­tinue to work with local poliee ·departments to patrol the stadi­um grounds for the remainder of 
see ARRESTS/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, September 25, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Easy being green 
The Not.rn I>arne mission statnnwnt rPads. "Tiw Uniwrsity snnks to cultivatn in its studPnL<; not only an appreciation l'or t.lw gn~at achi1wnnwnl<; ol' human (wings. hut also a disdplirwd sensibility to tho poverty, injustiee, and 
Joseph McMahon
oppression that burden tlw lives 
ol' so many." News Production Notre I >anw Hditor studnnL<; an• wdl known fi1r actively 1~ngaging in community snrvien. and the University proudly declares that il<; studnnL<; am somn of tlw most com­munity-oriented in tho world. Tlw ( :at.holie ehanu~tnr ol' Notre Damn has led studenl<; to pursuo a wide varioty of snrvien programs; from Toaeh fi1r A.mnriea to anti-abortion groups. llowowr. 1mn of tlw greatost eausos of our time is oflnn ignornd at Notre Damn -PllVironmPntalism. It has only bonn roeont.ly that tlw University rPally starWd addressing. launching tlw "It's Easy BPin' Green at ND" campaign. Snwral of tho nnw buildings will have solar panels on their roofs. and tlw Uniwrsity IW1111 eanw tognthnr with tlw Enorgy and I·:nvironnwntal l<L<;k fore1~ in sotling up rm~yding stat.ions around snvoral dorms and handing out bhrP n~eyrling bags to tailgatnrs this past Saturday. Although thnsP an• enrtainly stnps in tJw positive dirPction. the University is still a big PIIVironnwntal oflimdPr. Notrn Damn still h<L<; a powPr plant that burns coal and natural gas. rnlnasing thou­sands ol' tons of carbon dioxido into tlw atmosplwrP 1~ac.h ynar. A.ecording to Notrl' Damn's Ennrh'Y and I •:nvironrnontalism student t<L<;k fi1rn~. t.ho University is 10-15 years bPhind Ilarvard and Yafp in establishing enorh'Y oflidoney. Hncyding bags arn often con­taminated and although all dorm rooms an~ supposPd to bP equipped with a blue rocyding tra<;IH~<tn. fi~w have them. Nonntholnss, our poor environment<tl rnmrd is not only tlw fault of thn U11ivnrsity. hut also due in part to the lazinoss of thn studonts. Orw dorm -St. Edward's-h<L<; nven rnsistod the envi­ronnwntal dubs' calls to establish a roeyding commissioner in oach dorm. I>nspitn the fact that they arn nvery­whnro; recycling stations aro rarely usnd. with studonl<; instoad either opt­ing not to take the time to pkk through thnir trash. This newspaper that you arn mading right now will probably just bn tossnd into a garbago ean instead of tho newspaper-recycling bin. A.lthough the problem is f.,TJ'fmt, the Univnrsity and the studenl<; are moving in the right direction. This pa<;t Saturday marked thn first time the administration and studenl<; eollaborat­nd on a projeet to help encourag~) recy­cling at tailgates and cookouts. The pre­liminary l'I)SU!l<; have been positive, with over 120 bags of contamination-free roeydables collected in just the library parking lot. In the long term. the University must seriously reexamine its energy use poli­cy, and consider switching away from mal to solar and wind energy. It is time for the University and the student body to both strive towards helping ensure that the environment L<> kept safe. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Joseph McMahon jmcmaho6@)nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The ( )bserver regards irselfas a professional publicuion and strives for the highest standards ofjoumalism at all rimes. We do, however, reoognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we em amect our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: SHOULD LAUREN FROM 'THE HILLS' GET BACK TOGETHER WITH JASON? WHY? 

Erin Hoffer Laura Bradley Caitlin Broglie Leslie Allen Kyle Peters Pat Conners 
freshman freshman freshman freshman junior junior Iloward Howard Welsh Family Howard O'Neill O'Neill 
"No, because "No, because "No, Jason has "Yes, because "No, because "Yes, because Lauren Solo cups and a fiance." Jason's been he's a scumbag. they're like deserves Bob Marley looking pretty And who makes totally BH-'-er 





sex tapes than 5ipencer anyway?" and lleidi." 
IN BRIEF 

"BetwN~n Figurative and Abstract," will featum paintings by Gao Xingjian. Tho exhibit will run from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in O'Shaughnessy Galleries West in the Snite Museum today. The exhibit will end Nov. 11. 
"Solid Flame: Fundamentals and A.pplieations" seminar will be held today at :1:30 p.m. in 129 DeBartolo Hall. A.lex S. Mukasyan. rnseareh professor in the lkpartment of' Chmnical and Biomolecular Engineering, will speak about the fundamentals and applications of solid flame (SF). 
Tho rosary will be said tonight at 6:45 at the Grotto. The rosary is said daily. 
Thnre is a Post Graduate Scrviee Fair Wednesday f'rom 5 
p.m. to S at the Joyce Center. Hepresentativos from over 70 service programs will bn present f()l' students who wish to commit to a year or more of full-time service after graduation. The event is sponsored by the Center for Soda! Concerns. 
Fall intramural fees will start being collected Thursday. Money can be dropped off at Holfs SportsRec Center. CoHee ba<;ket­ball is $50 pnr team and lnterhall volleyball is $20. The final dead­line is Oct. 4. 
The film "EI Note" is playing Thursday at 7 p.m. in Browning Cinema, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Director Gregory Nava is schedulnd to be present. Tickets are $3 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH LOW 

something posters came good since he 
,

better. between them. got out of You can't rehab." overcome that. " 
In Oz costumes 
NEW YOHK -Joba Chamberlain raised his oversized paws. shook his shaggy brown mane and let out a feeble roar. Looking and acting every bit the Cowardly Lion. the big reliever was ready for a scrap Monday. 
"Put 'em up! Put 'em up!" he said, playfully challenging Jason Giambi and Mike Mussina. No tak­ers -they were laughing too hard at Chamberlain's head-to-toe costume. 
It was rookie hazing day for the New York Yankees, and this well-worn base-
TODAY 

a:: 

NATALIE SEXTONffhe Observer 
Megan Weinandy practices the bagpipes Monday. Weinandy is the only member of the Notre Dame bagpipe band from Saint Mary's. 
OFFBEAT Yankees rookies dress up 
written  on  the plates, is  
similar  to  an  offensive  
word.  

The plates, UIHNK 1 UDINK2 and UDINK3 are on the vehicles of Mike and Shelly Udink and their son Kalei. Two o[ the plates are five and seven years old. One was issued last year. 
Last summer, Kawika Udink's application for UDINK4 was rejected and the state ordered that the other three plates be returned. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
theme: The Wizard of Oz. 
So after their 4-1 loss to Toronto, and while the movie's soundtrack played over the locker room speakers, about a dozen rooks slipped into their outfits for the bus ride to the airport and the night to Tampa Bay. 
They're off to see a play­off spot, they hoped. 
Family license plate deemed offensive 
MEHLIN, Oregon-The state of Oregon has ordered a family to turn in the vanity license plates on its cars because their 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
1.&.1 
::z::: 
!;;: 
1.&.1 
3: 
...I 
cc 
(,) 0 

HIGH 88
.... 
LOW 60 

78 
50 

79 57 


80 63 
Tuesday, September 25, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


Group discusses changes in advertising, Web site 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) discussed College Relations updates for advertising brochures dis­tributed to prospective high school studenl<; and Web site reconstruction in a meeting Monday. 
Shari Rodriguez, vice president for College Relations, presented her office's ideas for new brochures that will indude a new slogan -"She's Saint Mary's." The committee voted on the slogan last year in efforts to change the image presented by adver­tising materials in banners, signs and brochures. 
"Saint Mary's has never really had one brand identi­ty. We are trying to focus our message so we stay consis­tent," Rodriguez said. 
College Relations is responsible for drawing prospective high school stu­dents to campus. The adver­tising campaign will target sophomores, juniors and seniors, she said. 
Sophomores will be mailed three postcards that "show general aspects of Saint Mary's," Rodriguez said. These postcards will include pictures of class­rooms, Dalloway's and other prominent places on cam­pus. 
Juniors will receive a book describing the majors offered by the College, she said. 
"One thing we learned in our research was that although high school stu­dents saw us as a good insti­tution, our majors rated very low," Rodriguez said. 
The packet will also include a junior year View Book that will provide inter­ested students the resources to explore what is offered in their prospective majors. 
Seniors will be sent a booklet with profiles of stu­dents that represent a range of majors and extracurricu­lar activities, which Rodriguez hopes will present campus life "through the eyes and experiences of Saint Mary's students." 
Campus Relations is also working on the reconstruc­tion of Saint Mary's website, Rodriguez said. After six years without any major revisions, the Web site is being updated to include the new "She's Saint Mary's" slo­gan, along with new profiles of the College's majors. 
"The website is the pri­mary source [of information] for perspective students," Rodriguez said. 
The new site will launch early this week, she said. 
In other BOG news 
+Student Activities Board president Cassie Calion, dis­cussed the upcoming lecture by C. L. Lindsay, a former attorney, titled "Campus Computing: From Free Speech to Facebook How your Faceboo~ySpace pages can come back to Haunt you." The lecture will take place in Little Theatre at 7:30p.m. on Oct. 4. 
+Courtney Kennedy, BOG executive treasurer, announced that the College will be hosting the pep rally at Notre Dame before the Duke game Nov.16. She is forming a committee in order to plan the event. 
+Colleen Kielty, president of the Class of 2008, dis­cussed Thursday's hip-hop themed dance, "Let Your Sister Pick Your Mister." It will be held from 8-11 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Tickets are on sale this week for $10 per couple. 
Contact Ashley Charney at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
CEO addresses integrity 
Brennan speaks about business ethics, standards 
By DAVIS RHORER, JR. 
News Writer 
Capitalism extends far beyond maxi­mizing profits John Brennan, CEO and chairman of Vanguard Group, said at Monday's lecture titled "The Market Value of Integrity." 
Brennan spoke to an audienc.e of business school students and profes­sors in Jordan Auditorium. He stressed the connection between cor­porate responsibility and ethics and asserted that character was, above all, the most important characteristic in a CEO, even surpassing· confidence. 
"The defining 
Citing the corporate than most other com­scandals of the last 10 character is how panies due to its deal­years involving Enron, ings with the savings
people act in the
Worldcom and Tyco, and investments of
everyday."
Brennan demonstrated individual people. the drastic psychologi­"Those firms' sloppy cal effects of corruption John Brennan ethics affected my -emphasizing the clients' financial
CEO and chairman
overwhelming feeling of futures," he said.
Vanguard Group 
"what a terrible place "The defining charac­work," he said. 
Action in the business place was another point heavily emphasized by Brennan, who felt that all employees of a company are obligated to main­tain a degree of responsibility and honesty. 
"Defining an organization's charac­ter is what goes on everyday," Brennan said. 
When asked about his own compa" ny, Brennan said that Vanguard dealt with companies that had a history of corruption only if those companies dealt with the issue quickly and over­came it. Vanguard, Brennan said, had a higher degree of ethics to maintain 
to be" felt by those who viewed American corporate society as corrupt and immoral. 
"All business evil stems from ego or greed," Brennan said. 'The fact of the matter is greed corrupts and greed is not good in the business world." 
But the overwhelming majority of businesses and corporations in the United States are operated by good and capable people, he said. The feel­ing of disillusionment with corporate America is nothing more than "a bias spurred on by a few terrible cases of corruption," Brennan said. 
"We have to have high standards companies or [business] doesn't 
ter is how people act in the everyday." 
While he admitted there will always be companies that "go over the edge" and that a degree of government reg­ulation over business will always be necessary, Brennan stressed his belief in the overwhelming amount of honest leaders present in capitalistic enter­prises in the United States 
The lecture was sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment and is part of the Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics. 
Contact Davis Rhorer, Jr. at drhorer@nd.edu 

The beacon in multi-million dollar investment decisions 
BainCapital is one of the world's leading private investment firms, managing more than $50 billion of leveraged buyout, public equity and credit funds. Sankaty Advisors, the credit affiliate of Bain Capital, is one of the nation's leading private managers of high yield debt obligations. With approximately $22 billion in committed capital, Sankaty is a world­class team of over 65 investment professionals with extensive experience analyzing and managing high yield investments. 
Representatives from Sankaty Advisors will be visiting campus throughout the year, speaking with undergraduate students about internships and full-time positions that will put your education to work on global, multi­million dollar investment decisions. 
Please look for us on campus in the coming months to learn more about the great opportunities we offer in Boston and London. 
Resume Deadline: Tuesday, September 25th 
1st Round Interviews: Friday, October 5th 
For more information, visit us at www.sankaty.com. 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 25, 2007 

Hilton 
continued from page 1 
football game Saturday. 
"Thn food was good and it was a nien, relaxing atmos­phfml," she said. "Thn staff' was vnry inviting and friend­ly." 
The new hotel also offers room service, adjustable mattresses, wireless Internet and LCD televi­sions. The guests at the Inn at Saint Mary's will be able to benefit from the full serv­ice restaurant, as the Hilton will 11xtond its room service catering to thn Inn as well. 
Typical room rates range from $129 to $149, increas­ing to nearly $400 during dings planned for next sum­mer and a banquet reserva­tion," Benak said. 

The conference center also contains an exterior garden which is over 4,000 sq. n. 
The Holladay Corporation proposed construction of the hotel in 2005 to the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
"Many people stopped by this weekend just to see it," Benak said. "We are very pleased with the guest com­ments. The weekend went very smoothly, besides the game, of course." 
The llilton, which was developed by the same own­ers as the Inn, is different, Benak said. "The Inn docs a phenomenal job, but we have some­thing they 
home football "We already have 15 don't have. 
weeknnds. The We're part
weddings planned for 
Hilton ofl'nrs of a nation­
three types of next summer and a al franchise rooms: stan­banquet reservation." and that dard, Jacuzzi national suites and jun­affiliation 
Jim Benak

ior king suites, helps us all of' whieh general manager g i v e 
have a refrig­Hilton Garden Inn rewards for 
erator and a microwave. 
The next step for the hotel will be completion of the Gillespie Conference and Special Events Center, which is scheduled to open Feb. 1. The conference eenter is located 011 the northeast side of the hotel and will be shared with the Inn at Saint Mary's, Bmtak said. 
The center will seat up to 750 and will be available for dinners, banquets, weddings and other speeial events. 
"We already have 15 wed-

frequent guests," Benak said. 
The opening ceremonies included a blessing by Sister Gnraldine Hoyler of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, a speech by Frank Perri of the development team and a flag-raising by the Indiana National (;uard. 
The hotel is taking reser­vations for the remainder of the football season. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO1@saintmarys.edu 
Thompson said. "You have people 
who come on the air and say outra­


Panel 

geous things to simply be outra­
continued from page 1 geous, so they can get on the next 
talk show." the respect that news media for­In addition to partisan television merly had, with today's attacks on programs, unprofessional "citizen the media. journalism" has become more 
"[Journalist Walter Lippman widespread, as untrained journal­said] the newspaper L'> in all literal­ists report and comment on news ness the Bible of democracy, the through online blogs or chat rooms, book out of which a people deter­Thompson said. mines its conduct," Schmuhl said. Several professional journalists "Today with many more journalism feel that this is not a credible outlet'> than just the newspaper, we reporting method, since "bloggers" hear much more about media mal­often infuse opinion into their sto­practice and much less about the ries. sacred and priestly role of journal­"When I approach a story, I don't ism." have an axe to grind," Dan LeDuc, 
Recent statistics illustrated the the deputy national editor for The decline in public confidence. Washington Post said. "It aetually Schmuhl said that in an NBC · does take training and practice to News/Wall Street Journal poll go out and cover a story and get it taken a few weeks ago, only 18 right." percent of Americans reported The media industry also faces "having high confidence in the growing financial programs due to national media," almost a 20 per­the transition from print to online cent decline from the 1991 poll media, Bill Mitchell, editor of results. Poynter Online said. 
Some speakers attributed this "Print revenue fell precipitously lack of trust to the rise of polarized and online revenue L'i still growing talk shows and debates on cable slowly," Mitchell said. "I just don't news channels, as well as the have confidence that if we do what desire to hear individual political we've always done well, that we're views in the media, instead of con­going to figure out a way to raise sulting unbiased news. the capital it takes to do high quali­
"We have so confused the viewer ty journalism [online]." to the point that they don't know Despite these dilemmas, speak­what's opinion and what's fact," ers at the panel have not lost faith NBC News correspondent Anne in the media's power and influence, and they recommended ways for journalisl'i to overcome their prob­lems. ­
"We forget we have incredible power to reach people every day, and we should use it wisely," Monica Yant Kinney, a columnist for The Philadolphia Inquirer said. "Just like Superman or Wonder Woman, we should do right with our power." · John McMeel, president of Universal Press Syndicate, suggest­ed that local newspapers should strive for more relevance for read­ers and that the media should teach youth about the value of unbiased news. 
"Every newspaper may also, in conjunction with the local 1V sta­tions, adopt a program lor schools to explain why news is important to a democracy and to each individ­ual," McMeel said. "It should be 'uncool' to not keep up with what's going on and 'uncool' to rely on just one source for inibrmation." 
Even with new innovations, Bill Dwyre, a sporl'i columnist, and for­mer sports editor, for The Los Angeles Times said that regaining public confidence will be a slow process. 
"I think it's going to take 20 years of slowly working back to newspa­per journalism being newspaper journali'im," he said. 
Contact Claire Reising at creisin2@nd.edu 
you are responsible for your eon­duct." 
Johnson asked that unruly or unlawful behavior be reported to NDSP at 574-631-5555 or by using a call box from the parking areas. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu.edu 



Arrests 
continued from page 1 
the home football games during the 2007 season. 
He said fans should follow Indiana laws and drink responsi­bly if they choose to consume alcoholic beverages. 
Johnson said police would arrest underage drinkers 011 earn­pus at tailgate parties. 
"Don't let aleohol get in the way of your safety or fun or keep you from enjoying a great football game," Johnson said. "Keep in mind that laws regarding the use of alcohol will be enforced and 
Cairo Information Session · Study Arabic, Middle East Politics, Egyptology, Business, Engineering, Science, etc. in the heart of the Arabic world • Academic year and semester options · Study at the American University in Cairo • Make contacts in the modern capital of the Middle East · Experience modern life in the desert Tuesday, Sept. 25 Walk, talk, and 5:30PM live like an Egyptian120 DeBartolo Hall APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER f5, 2007  







ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, September 25, 2007 CoMPILED FROM TIIE OBSERVER'S W! RE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Appeal for Islamic militants rejected 
JAKARTA, Indonesia -The Supreme Court rejected appeals by all three Islamic militants on death row for the 2002 Bali bombings that killed 202 people, the state news agency said Monday. 
Supreme Court spokesman Nurhadi said Monday two separate panels of judges had ruled against Ali Ghufron and Imam Samudra -on Aug. 23 and Sept. 19 respectively ­because their lawyers provided no new evi­dence countering earlier verdicts, Antara state news agency reported. 
The court has announced earlier this month that it has also rejected an appeal by a third Bali bomber convict on death row, Amrozi Nurhasyim, on Aug. 30. 
Lawyers for the three men, awaiting a fir­ing squad for the twin nightclub attacks, argued that the convictions were illegal because they were based on an anti-terror law that was applied retroactively. 
Suicide bomber targets peace talks 
BAQOUBA, Iraq -A suicide bomber struck a U.S.-promoted reconciliation meeting of Shiite and Sunni tribal sheiks as they were washing their hands or sipping tea Monday, killing at least 15 people, including the city's police chief, and wounding about 30 others. 
Two U.S. soldiers were also wounded in the 
8:30 p.m. blast at a Shiite mosque in Baqouba, a former al-Qaida in Iraq strong­hold about 35 miles northeast of Baghdad, according to U.S. and Iraqi officials, who gave the overall casualty toll. 
The brazen attack, which bore the hall­marks of al-Qaida in Iraq, represented a major challenge to U.S. efforts to bring together Shiites and Sunnis here in Diyala province, scene of some of the bitterest fight­ing in Iraq. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Teacher charged with sexual misoon.dud: 
COLUMBIA, S.C. -A former teacher was charged with having sex with a teenage boy, the third teacher in the same county accused of such crimes in the past year and a half, authorities said Monday. 
Karen Robbins, 49, was arrested over the weekend and charged with three counts each of criminal sexual conduct with a minor and committing a lewd act on a child. The sex occurred with a 15-year­old in her car and twice at her home between September and November 2005, according to arrest warrants. 
Robbins was a private school teacher at the time, and officials said the accusations did not involve one of her students. 
Robbins  was  released from jail on  a  
$90,000 bail.  
Feds  crack  down  on  steroids  

PROVIDENCE, R.I. -Federal authorities announced the largest crackdown on ille­gal steroids in the nation's history Monday, arresting more than 120 people and raiding dozens of labs that manufac­tured growth hormone for sale on the black market. 
Agents seized 56 labs, many of which were located in dirty basements, and recovered 11.4 million doses of steroids, according to the Drug Enforcement Administration. 
LOCAL NEWS 

State poll in favor of moving primary 
INDIANAPOLIS -A new statewide poll released Monday found strong support for mov­ing Indiana's May primary election to January or February. 
Some 61 percent of those surveyed in a WISH­"IV Indiana Poll said the primary should be held earlier in the year to give Hoosiers more of a voice in presidential polities. 
Twenty-four percent said the primary should not be moved, while 15 percent said they were not sure. The statewide telephone poll of 800 people _who vote regularly in state elections was conducted Sept. 10-14 by Maryland-based Research 2000. 

Iranian president speaks at Columbia 
Ahmadinejad questions offical verszon of 9/11, responds to criticism 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad questioned the official version of the Sept. 11 attacks and defended the right to cast doubt on the Holocaust in a tense appearance Monday at Columbia University, whose presi­dent accused the hard­line leader of behaving like "a petty and cruel dictator." 
Ahmadinejad smiled at first but appeared increasingly agitated, decrying the "insults" and "unfriendly treat­ment." Columbia President Lee Bollinger and audience members took him to task over Iran's human-rights record and foreign policy, as well as Ahmadinejad's statements denying the Holocaust and calling for the disappearance of Israel. 
"Mr. President, you exhibit all the signs of a petty and cruel dictator," Bollinger said, to loud applause. 

He said Ahmadinejad's denial of the Holocaust might fool the illiterate and ignorant. Ahmadinejad appeared 11 attacks, but then continued: "In Iran we do 
"When you come to a tense and unsmiling, in appeared to question not have this phenome­place like this it makes contrast to more relaxed whether al-Qaida was non. I don't know who's you simply ridiculous," interviews and appear­responsible. told you that we have Bollinger said. "The truth ances earlier in the day. "Why did this happen? this." is that the Holocaust is In response to one What caused it? What Bollinger was strongly the most documented audience, Ahmadinejad conditions led to it?" he criticized for inviting event in human history." denied he was question­said. "Who truly was Ahmadinejad to 
Ahmadinejad rose, also ing the existence of the involved? Who was really Columbia, and had prom­to applause, and after a Holocaust: "Granted this involved and put it all ised tough questions in religious invocation, said happened, what does it together?" his introduction to Bollinger's opening was have to do with the Asked about executions Ahmadinejad 's talk. But "an insult to information Palestinian people?" of homosexuals in Iran, the strident and personal and the knowledge of the But then he said he was Ahmadinejad said the nature of his attack on audience here." defending the rights of judiciary system executed the president of Iran was 
"There were many European scholars, an violent criminals and startling. insults and claims that apparent reference to a high-level drug dealers, "You are either brazen­were incorrect, regretful­small number who have comparing them to ly provocative or aston­ly," Ahmadinejad said, been prosecuted under microbes' eliminated ishingly uneducated," accusing Bollinger of national laws for denying through medical treat­Bollinger told falling under the influ­or minimizing the ment. Pressed specifically Ahmadinejad about the ence of the hostile U.S. Holocaust. about punishment of leader's Holocaust press and politicians. "I "There's nothing known homosexuals, he said: "In denial. should not begin by being as absolute," he said. Iran we don't have homo­During his prepared affected by this unfriend­He reiterated his desire sexuals like in your coun­remarks, the Iranian ly treatment." to visit ground zero to try." president did not address 
During a question and express sympathy with With the audience Bollinger's accusations answer session, the victims of the Sept. laughing derisively, he directly. 


UN puts urgency on reducing emissions 
Associated Press later this week, would launch talks Bali, Indonesia, when Europe, Japan 
rivaling the U.N. climate treaty nego" and others hope to initiate talks for 
UNITED NATIONS -With tales of tiations. an emissions-reduction agreement to rising seas and talk of human soli­President Bush didn't take part in succeed the Kyoto Protocol in 2012. darity, world leaders at the first the day's sessions, which drew more The 175-nation Kyoto pact, which United Nations climate summit than 80 national leaders, but the U.S. rejects, requires 36 industri­sought Monday to put new urgency planned to attend a small dinner al nations to reduce carbon dioxide into global talks to reduce global­Monday evening, a gathering of key and other heat-trapping gases. It set warming emissions. climate players hosted by Secretary­an average target of a 5 percent cut 
What's needed is "action, action, General Ban Ki-moon. below 1990 levels by 2012 for emis­action," California's environmentalist Ban set the day's theme in his sions from power plants and other governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, opening speech, declaring that "the industrial, agricultural and trans­told the assembled presidents and time for doubt has passed" on the portation sources. premiers. issue of global warming and calling Advocates for emissions reductions 
The Bush administration showed the U.N. climate talks "the appropri­say a breakthrough is needed at Bali no sign, however, that it would ate forum for negotiating global to ensure an uninterrupted transition reverse its stand against mandatory action." from the 1997 Kyoto pact to a new, emission cuts endorsed by 175 other He organized the one-day summit deeper-cutting regime, something nations. Some expressed fears the to build momentum for December's that almost certainly would require a White House, with its own forum annual climate treaty conference in change in the U.S. position. 

~----~----~-­
· page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 25, 2007 


NEW START TIME 3-Mile, 6-Mile Runs 



DOMER 


A 13e¥te{Ufor OVCU'"£<:;utv ~CLWCt¥~ ~ed-ucaruwv 
ND/SMC/HC Community $10.00 in advance, $15.00 day of race Alumni $15.00 Register in advance at RSRC or download registration form@ recsports.nd.edu Advance registration ends @ 7:00p.m. Friday, September 28 
Race day check-in @ Legends 

For more information, ca//631-6100 or visit recsports.nd.edu 

~' 1\ssoc. 


§-~~.
....... 0
< .. ::2

CHASEO 
NOTRE DAME 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Tuesday, September 25, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 13,759.06 -61.13

Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,010 10 1,210 3,682,279,784 

AMEX NASDAQ 
2,667.95 -3.27 NYSE S&P 500 1,517.73 -8.02 NIKKEI (Tokyo) . 16,266.88 -45.73 


FTSE 100 'London~ 6,465.90 +9.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.18 -0.28 151.69 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.46 +0.23 50.59 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +1.50 +0.43 29.08 EM C CP (EMC) +7.78 +1.48 20.51 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.17 -0.008 4.624 13-WEEK BILL +1.38 +0.05 3.670 30-YEAR BOND -0.29 -0.014 4.877 5-YEAR NOTE -0.09 -0.004 4.298 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.67 80.95 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.40 739.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.80 85.63 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 114.6900 EURO 0.7107 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0047 BRffiSH POUND 0.4964 
IN BRIEF 
Comcast hit with $4,000 fine 
WASHINGTON The Federal Communications Commission is proposing a $4,000 fine against Comcast Corp. for airing a pitch for a sleep aid without telling viewers that the spot was financed by the maker of the product. 
The fine was in response to a complaint by the Center for Media and Democracy, a media watchdog group, which said it marks the first time a company has been sanctioned for airing a "video news release," a type of programming it dubs "fake news." 
A video news release is a sponsored pub­lic relations video that mimics actual news reports. Such programs are common in broadcasting and are usually offered to news shows for free. 
The fine, while small, is significant for another reason: It is being assessed against a cable company. Comcast Corp. says cable programming is not covered under the statute cited by the FCC. 

NRG Energy to apply for reactor 
WASHINGTON -Power producer NRG Energy Inc. is expected on Tuesday to sub­mit the first application for a new nuclear reactor in the U.S. in nearly 30 years. 
NRG's application for two new units at its South Texas Project in Bay City will be the first complete construction and operat­ing license submission the government has received since before the Three Mile Island accident in Pennsylvania in 1971). 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission spokesman Scott Burnell on Monday said the agency, based on conversations with the company, expects to receive NRG's application Tuesday morning. He added that the government still expects to receive up to six more applications this year from Duke Energy Corp., Dominion Hesources Inc. and others. 
U.S. auto indushy, UAW struggling 
Mounting competition, high labor costs put pressure on American auto indutry 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -The U.S. auto industry is gasping for air under the crush­ing weight of high labor costs, growing competi­tion and bloated, aging infrastructure. At the same time, the United Auto Workers union is struggling to stay rele­vant after years of mem­bership declines. 
Caught between these two giants in this year's contract talks are the auto workers who built middle-class lives on the promises of the industry. Marilyn Coulter, who has built cars in Lansing for 29 years, said nobody likes to strike. But she was still holding a picket sign outside an entrance to her sprawling plant Monday. 
"We do what we have to do. We've given and we need something back," said Coulter, 4 7. "We want to build cars, but we don't want to be taken advantage of, either." 

Strikes have sometimes been jubilant affairs, with workers lustily singing and chanting on the picket lines. But on Monday, UAW President Ron Gettelfinger and his bargaining team looked exhausted and grim. Gettelfinger said the The two sides went back specialist at Clark more than $800 million union called a strike to the bargaining table University in Worcester, in that fund as of last because it wants promis­Monday afternoon, but Mass., said it was a good November, according to es for future products at weary negotiators sign that the two sides the UAW's Web site. 
U.S. 
plants in addition to stopped to rest around 8 are still talking. But he Aaron Bragman, an standard agreements on p.m. Talks were to added that the strike auto industry analyst for wages and benefits. resume Tuesday morn­isn't all drama. the consulting firm 

"Nobody wins in a ing. "There's always the­Global Insight, said the strike, but there comes a Several analysts said atrics in bargaining, but two sides are at a his­point in time when some­they expect the strike the theatrics are very toric crossroads. GM, one can push you off a will be short and that the real," he said. "These are which lost $2 billion in cliff," said Gettelfinger, UAW is simply trying to workers whose jobs are 2006, isn't in the finan­who represents 73,000 force GM's hand and in jeopardy and the com­cial position to make GM workers at about 80 bring the lengthy bar­pany could lose millions long-term promises for 

U.S. 
facilities. gaining to a close. GM and millions of dollars." U.S. manufacturing, and 


GM acknowledged that and the UAW had been The striking workers the company could the job security of U.S. negotiating for 21 will receive $200 a week decide to move products workers is on the line, straight days as of plus medical benefits overseas if the strike but so is the long-term Monday. from the UAW's strike lasts longer than a few viability of the company. Gary Chaison, a labor fund. The union had days, he said. 

SocialSecurityfaces $13.6 trillion shortfall 
Associated Press reductions. the gap between what Social Security 
"The administration's new report is is expected to need to pay out in ben­
WASHINGTON -The Bush admin­a reminder of President Bush's deter­efits and what it will raise in payroll istration said in a new report Monday mination to not only privatize Social taxes at $13.6 trillion "over the indef­that Social Security is facing a $13.6 Security but to make deep cuts in the inite future." trillion shortfall in coming years and benefits that American workers have It said delaying necessary changes that delaying reforms is not fair to earned," said Senate Majority Leader reduces the number of people avail­younger workers. Harry Reid, D-Nev. "Nobody should able to share in the burden of those 
A report issued by the Treasury be fooled into believing that the only changes and is unfair to younger Department said that some combina­way to save Social Security is to workers. "Not taking action is thus tion of benefit cuts and tax increases destroy it with privatization or deep unfair to future generations. This is a will need to be considered to perma­benefit cuts." significant cost of delay," the report nently fix the funding shortfall. But Bush had hoped to make Social said. White House officials stressed that Security reform the top domestic pri­In another key finding, the report President Bush remains opposed to ority of his second term. He put for­said: "Social Security can be made raising taxes. ward a Social Security plan in 2005 permanently solvent only by reducing 
Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson that focused on creation of private the present value of scheduled bene­said he hoped the new report would accounts for younger workers, but fits and/or increasing the present help find common ground on the that proposal never came up for a value of scheduled tax increases." politically divisive issue, but a key vote in Congress with Democrats The paper went on to say: "Other Democrat charged that the adminis­heavily opposed and few Republicans changes to the program might be tration will still try to fix Social embracing the idea. desirable, but only these changes can Security by imposing sharp benefit The Treasury report put the cost of restore solvency permanently." 


page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 25, 2007 
Gates 
continued from page 1 
institutions. such a.'i univnrsities. 
"It is my oxporienee that the 
foundation funds institutions that 
havo the capacity to do tho work," 
Collins said. 
Thn I<oundation's granL'i am usu­
ally giwn to pntincL'i that work to 
rmlu1~n irwquitins in rwgloetnd 
arn<ts, producn nwasurabln rnsulL'i, 
litvor pmvnntativn approadrns and 
ac('(dnratn th1• work tlwy arn 
alrnady supporting. according to 
t.hPir Wnb sit1•. Tlwy do not award 
any individual ).,'l'anL'i. 
i\l'tnr thP li•urulation nxprnssnd 
an intnmst in Collins' pro-proposal, 
lw worknd with tlw organization to 
dPvPiop a full proposal with a 
hudgnt. 
"Wn rnqunstnd tl11• amount of 
morwy that WP thought W1L'i appro­
priatn," hn said. "V\>'p am nncour­
agnd to hn cost nlliciPnt, but wn 
won• ahln to rwgotiatn an amount 
that would allow us to suecossfully 
l'ompiPtn our n~snan~h." 
Collins' proposPd rnsParch is 
rPntPrnd on nw1L'iuring tho ratn of 
malaria transmittnd by mosquitoos 
and curbing transmission in thP 
amas of tho world hit hardost by 
tlw ~~pidomie. Malaria is most 
pmvalnnt in tropical armL'i sueh lL'i 
i\fri1:a. Asia and parts of Latin 
i\nwrica. 
Ilis rnsoan~h procPdurn will eon­
sist of rour main objnctiv1~s. Tho 
lirst involvns evaluating current 
mnthods or nwasuring malaria 
transmission that can bn usod to 
evaluatn malaria control stral.l~).,rins. 
"Wo need to dovelop a set of very roliable moasurns of transmissions. We will bo looking at more than half a dozen ways of measuring malaria and nvaluating their rela­tive dli1ctivnness across sites with dill'oront transmission intensity," Collins said. "We will look at a rango of malaria 1mdomic nnviron­monts whom transmission rates rangn lhnn vnry low, at a li1w bites pnr ynar, to vory high. over 100 hitns per ynar." 
Sonw ways or nWll'iUring trans­mission arn morn nll'nctivo than 11t.lwrs in dilli1rmrt settings, hn said. "Our prindpln aim is to get a s1msn of how I tlw nwt.hods I work and how tlwy can bn usnd most nlli~c­tivdy." 
Tho snrond objnctiw deals with nvaluating dilli~nmt combinations or nxisting malaria control tools, such <L'i insncticidns and bnd nnl'i, in diiTnrnnt nnvironments and liH".usns on cost Pll'nctive ways of using tlwsn tools in dimmmt snt­tings. 
lin hopns to detPrmine which tools work most nll'nctivdy undnr dill'nnmt lnvnls of malaria trans­mission. 
";\s malaria wntrol is implo­numtnd. wn'ro hoping that t.lm rate of transmission will litH. With this dnermL'iO in transmission, it will be important. to know whether or not malaria control methods should be changnd," Collins said. 
The third ol~jective is conrernnd wit.h mosquito rnsistance to insneti­eidns. 
"Inseeticides am an important tool. hut insnct n~sistancn mmpro­nrises t.hn usn of insecticides," he said. 
Thn dnvPiopmnnt of high lnvnls of n~sisllU11:e in a mosquito population is a rnlativdy slow procnss, Collins said. but it is not wnllunderstood. 
"llnrn. wn will ask a series of qunstions on nvaluating the impact or control prO).,'l'HmS on resistance emnrgmH:n," lw said. 
Tlw !ina! objective aims to evalu­atn thl1 impaet or veetor bnhavior on sonrn of thn slimdard approarh­ns to curbing transmission. Thorn arn many spndns of mosquito that transmit. malaria and thnse bnhav­iors alli1ct the lnvd of dli1ctivmmss or tlm pnwnnlittive rnnasurns. 
"Many lrnosquitoPsl tnnd to bite 
at night m1d eome indoors and feed 
on p1~oplo when they're asleep," 
Collins said. "Here. we can see how 
insecticides on bed nets may be an 
elli1dive control strategy." 
This, in tum, am1cts many parl'i 
of the world bncause malaria is 
thought to be an outdoor epidemic, 
Collins said. 
"Assessing the impact of the 
bnhavior of tho mosquito will help 
us nxamine transmission more 
complddy and in dosnr dntail," lm 
said. 
Computnr science studnnts and 
faculty from the Collnge of 
Hngirwnring will play a key role in 
thn projnct, lL'i well il'i resnarchers 
from thn Swiss Tropical Institute, 
thn U.S. Cnnters for Diseasn 
Control, tlw London School of 
Ily).,rimw 1u1d Tropical Medicine and 
Durham University. 
Bnprnsnntatives from Indonesia, 
Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda and 
Zambia will also partner in tho 
rosnarch. 
Within tlw Notrn Dame commu­
nity. tho dnpartmnnt of mmputnr 
sdnncn and lm).,rinnnring will spear­
head much of the project's data 
managnnwnt, induding database 
dnsign, Wnb access, spatial visuali­
zation and data. Collins said. 
"In ordnr to do our rosnarch suc­
cnsslidly, we nned to devnlop well 
managed systems for data and 
make sure it is entered without 
nrror so it ean be availabln for 
analysns," Collins said. "The 
Collegn of Engineering can help us 
do that. The inte!,rrity and quality of 
our data is critical." 
The project will include test 
armL'i in Africa and Indonesia. 
"Even though much of it is 
liJcused in Aliiea, we'll al'io have a 
big component that will be in 
Indonesia. which represent<> a kind 
of step OUL'iide of the standard high 
transmission zone that's typically 
looknd at in Alhca," Collins said in 
a press rnlea<>e. 
Although Notre Dame is working with sevnral ot.l1er outside organi­zations, all of the money is going dirm:tly to the Univnrsity. I low the money is then distributed is at Collins' discmtion. 
"Within tho !,'l'ant, we established sub-mntracL'i 1.!1 orgmlize what we am going to do," he said. The col­laborating organizations also hdp11d in writing the initial propos­al to the Gall~s Foundation. 
Tlw Foundation assigns a pro­gram onker to eaeh grant they award to oversee the progress of the initiative. 
"The ollkor won't tdl us what to do or how to do it. but they will make suro we are meeting the milestones we sl1t for oursPlves at thn beginning or the project," Collins said. 
The project's ollicer will partici­pate in mnliwence ealls and meet with the group throughout her livn­year tenure. 
The next step, Collins said, i'i an organizational one. 
"We are now in the process of writing detailed protocols· for our research." 
The principle researchers and organizers will meet fiJr a five-day conferenee in Zambia in November, where they will present the details of their projeet to an ext11rnal advisory board and eol­leagues. 
Collins has no plans to take a leave from the Univorsity to com­ple1.l1 the project. 
The <~al.lJs Foundation foeuses on global healt.l1 ~md development and was established in 2000 to "help reduee inequities in tho United States and around the world," aeeording to the Gates Foundation Wobsill1. 
It gave over $1,562,514,000 in grants in 2006 within the Foundation's three main realms: global development, global health mlfl the United Slittes. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Ruling 
continued from page 1 
has this option." 
The ordinance also outlines a Community/Campus Advisory Coalition (CCAC) to help the Common Council identify neigh­borhood concerns relatnd to the local colleges, propose solutions and develop long-term strate­gies. 
Student body president Liz 
Brown,  who  has  garnered  
praise from both  - 
the eity and the  

ated in rnsponse to thn problem of disnrd1~rly students, my hope is that this body will snrve as an arena to diseuss the range of issues affecting area neighbor­hoods," she told Council mem­bers during the Sept. 17 public hearing for the ordinance. 
The CCAC will be comprised of the student body president and an administrative official from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Holy Cross and Indiana University South Bend, as well as the mayor of South Bend, a landlord representative, Common Council members and others. 
The group's first meeting will be coordinated within the next few weeks, Luecke said after he left Monday's Council meeting. 

tamed an ini­
tially volatile proposal. IIe acknowlmlged that "eertain segments" of thn popu­lation felt targeted by the pro­posal when it was first present­ed but said the final draft "onds up being a win fill' ew~rybody." 
"It's about responsibility, not retribution," Varner said. 
Though the party permit rnquirements will not be imple­mented when the ordinance goes into effect Oct. 5 at mid­night, any paperwork needed to immediately enact such a law is now on the books. 
The permit rules -designed to locate a person responsible for each large event, Kirsits said -require an event sponsor to provide the city with his or her name and proof of identity 
.Putting /Study/ in Study Abroad 
The place of international studies in a liberal arts education. 
6:00 p.m. Tuesday, September 25, 2007 
Hospitality Room-South Dining Hall 

Speaker: Tony Messina, Associate Professor Political Science 
Contact information: 
Office of Undergraduate Studies, 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 
along with information about the property ownership, num­ber of people expected to attend. starting and ending times of the party and a description of the type of musie which would be played. 
If the rules are nnaeted, rnsi­dents will bn eharged $5 to apply for a pnrmit and an addi­tional $15 if tho pnrmit is grant­ed. Failure to lile for a requirnd permit would be subjeet to a $500 line for a first oll'ense and a $1,000 line ror naeh subse­qunnt oll'nnse. 
Kirsits emphasized the pnrmit rnquirnment would not bn aimed at small gatherings. 
"L1~t's cut to tho chase," he said SPpt. 17. "This is about those keggnrs." 
The ordinancn is mnant to cut down on any major distur­banens in rnsidnntial neighbor­hoods. hn said -not just those eaused by Notre Damn students. 
"This isn't about Notre Dame," lw said. "it's about stu­dents moving oil' campus for tho lirst tinw-it's like 'woohoo. '" 
"There are rules of eonduct in residnntial communities, whnther you are students or 50­year old families." 
In addition to party permit legislation, the bill ineludes rules allowing residents to buy permits for lawn parking on Notre Damn homn football weekends. The pairing of the two issues was cited at numer­ous meetings as a reason the ordinance was addressed with­out delay, as Council members sought to finalize lawn parking rules before the football season was well underway. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 

Though Brown voiced student opposition to early versions of the bill, which would have enacted a party permit rnquirn­mnnt, she expressed support for the final version of the ordi­nance with its establishment of the CCAC. 
"This cooperation and collab­oration with the Common Council is unprecedentnd," she said. 
There was no nxtnnsive debatn before the votn Monday. Publie comments wenJ hnard Sept. 17. after whieh Council 
University admin­

"This cooperation 
istration for her 

and collaboration
role in the ordi­nance debatns, with the Common called the CCAC a 
Council is 
"major achieve­

unprecedented.,
ment for eommu­nity relations." "While this Liz Brown eoalition was cre­
student body president 
membnrs decidnd to postpone their votn in order to makn minor changes. 
Council member David Varner praised the reasoned dis­eourse that 
Tuesday,September 25,2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
know no boundaries 


WORLD VIEW IS AN INITIATIVE FROM THE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT TO PROMOTE CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE ABOUT ISSUES OF RACE, CLASS, ETHNICITY, RELIGION, AND GENDER THROUGH THE ARTS. 

TICKETS: $3 FOR STUDENTS AND $5 FOR FACULTY/STAFF • TICKET OFFICE: 631.2800 • PERFORMINGARTS.ND.EDU 
Additional 2007 Fall Semester Events Rebirth OfA Nation • October 3 • Join OJ Spooky City ofMen and City ofGod • October 4 • Join filmmakers Leandro Firmino and Luis Nascimento All the Invisible Children • December 8 • Join director Katia Lund 
~UNIVERSITY OF 

J~~:DEBARTOLO
WNOTREDAME '~t,'l' PERFORMING ARTS CENTER Office of the President 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, September 25, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

The Chuck Norris mystique 
1~0. Box 779, Notro Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR 8llSINF.SS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 

Ass·l~ MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey C:hris Hine SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
I'IIOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPIIIC.S EDITOR: Madeline Nics 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROI.l.ER: Tim Soholt·wski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: C:hrisrian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 6.31-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsmc@lnd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 ohsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports. I @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.If!!1nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the indept>ndenr, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Norre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to rdtise adverri.-;ements ba.o;ed on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively a.~ possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of tlw Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, A•;sist:mt Managing Editors and department editors. Commcntaric.,, lerrers and columns present the vit'Ws of the author,; :md not neces.-.1rily those oi"The l )bscrver. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the F.diror rnll~t be signed and mtl-'t include conracr information. 
Qumiom rrr;arding Obst'I'Vt'l' policies should be dir.cud to F.ditor in ChiifMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

!"he l)h~~Crvcr (lJSPS 'i')'J 2-4000) l\ puhli~hcd MonJ.ay tl•ruuW• FtKLr cucopc during rum o~.n.l we,..;~tiun pcmMk A •ut.crivunnlt.o TI1e Observer is $11)(} rurune ..k:a<"knu~. 
yeAH $H Jut illlt' \t"llle\U::t. 
'f1w ( )J...,cr~rr u puhli,hr:d ;u: POSTMASTER Ul4 ~utuh Dium~; llall Scud .tddn:N l11r11'Ciiun'4 Ill: Nntrc f).amc, IN 4(;'1"0·0779 TheOhK"~r 1\·ruMiu... IJKI&foiSC l'o'Ui~tr Nutn: D.1m< r.o.&..xn'J .mll ollltliuon~l moulmK uffi~u 024 54•uti1Dinin~t Ho~ll 
Nnuc [);~mr, IN 4()55(l...{)179 

The l )j,)trvcr 1' .1 mt·mhcr uf thC' AlscKJ.ua:l Prt:!~~ AJI rcproducrlnn ughu .uc N:tervc<l. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
If you can see Chuck Norris, he can sec you. If you can't see Chuck Norris, you may bo only seeonds away from death. 
Those, my friends, are words to live by. 
These days, Chuck James Norris enjoys inter­Dechant national fame and a well-deserved place Forgone among the pantheon Conclusion of i\meriean heroes. IIe is a phenomenon that erosses all boundaries, bo they cultural. politieal, religious, sexual, rl!-eial, or other. lie is a man whose popularity, far from declin­ing with his age, only waxes as he ripens into his upper 60s. Chuck Norris has roundhouso-kiekod his way into our tel­evisions, our movies, and our hearts. 
Hight now Chuek Norris is on my wall. Not literally-that wouldn't work-but in the form of a poster for a 1982 aetion movie called "Silent Hago." My room­mate and I found this little gem at the University Park Mall and we could hard­ly eontain our excitement. The large tagline near the top of the poster reads: "Scionee ereatnd him. Now Chuck Norris must destroy him." 
Below that is more description -ah, but how this poor language fails me! "Description" does not aeeurately cap­ture the poetry eontainod in these words. "lie's an indestructible man fused with powers beyond eomprehen­sion. I i\n unstoppable terror who in one final showdown, will push Chuck Norris to his limits. I And beyond." Below the text (and a pieture of Chuck Norris sporting a sheriff's badge and ten gallon hat), the title "Silent Rage" appears in bulky shadowed black letters. Next to this, a smaller ieon of Chuck Norris, shirtless, delivers a kick to the word "Hage" so that it begins to crumble and crack in half. This poster aptly showeas­es the selling power of Chuck Norris. In the movie he plays Texas sheriff Dan Stevens, but you see no mention of that 

character on the poster. Instead the 
aetor's name appears multiple times like 
a brand product. The marketing genius­
es at Columbia Pietures knew they were 
not going to sell this film on the basis of 
the plot alone. (In case you're curious, 
the story follows Chuck Norris as he bat­
tles a re-animated murderer he previ­
ously shot and killed, but whom scien­
tists brought back to life with rejuvenat­
ing powers.) So they tried to sell the film 
based on Chuck Norris' superstar 
charm, his captivating charisma, and his 
unassailable martial arts skills. 
But what do you really know about 
Chuck Norris; the man, the myth, the 
legend? Less than you might suspect. 
For instance, did you have any idea that 
Chuek Norris: 

-Was born Carlos Hay Norris and did 
not get the nickname "Chuck" until he 
was serving with the American Air 
Foree in South Korea. 

-Ilas a professional karate record of 
65-5, with all live of his losses being 
avenged (that is, he later fought the vic­
torious fighters and taught them the 
true meaning of pain). 

-Filled in for Sean Hannity on that 
host's Fox News "debate" program on 
Jan. 26, 2007. (Look it up on YouTube; 
you won't be disappointed.) 
-Instrueted Bob Barker in karate for 
years and appeared on 'The Price Is 
Hight" once for Barker's 80th birthday. 
As should be apparent, Chuck Norris 
is a multifaceted, multitalented humani­. tarian who eats criticism for breakfast. 
There is a reason that his name is a 
household synonym for sublime, a rea­
son Conan O'Brien installed a "Walker 
Lever" on his desk to play random clips 
from "Walker, Texas Ranger," a reason 
that Chuck Norris Faets are the biggest 
Internet craze (ever), a reason we can't 
get enough of him. 

Most of us fail to realize what exactly 
drives the Chuck Norris mystique. I once 
realized it, but then Chuck Norris 
became aware of this fact and round­house kicked it out of my mind. I can 
only ofl'er the fragments of my hypothe­
sis. 
I posit that Chuck Norris' career path was no mistake. I believe this as firmly as Chuck Norris believes evolution does not exist (as he stated in an online col­umn for WorldNetDaily). Yes, you may look at his life and figure lw is your average American soldier turned hard­working superstar karate fighter, turned ineredibly still' movie aetor showcasing formulaie and repetitive fight scenes, turned television star responsible for reviving morally unsophisticat1~d Westerns, turned Total Gym infomercial salesman, turned evangelical Christian author, turned Internet fad and conser­vative spokesman. You may see him that way, but it would be the last mistake you would ever make. 
Chuek Norris, who is omnisdent, knew scripts for movies like "The Dnlta Force" and "The Octagon" hardly merited the paper they were written on, but he accepted those projeets anyway. Just as some theologians argue that our tar­nishing universal sin only further glori­fies Christ's redemptive work for humanity, I argue that Chuek Norris' early Hollywood mishaps only further elevate and exalt his many storied accomplishments today. lie has karate­chopped our expectations in half, he has taken the glut of Chuck Norris humor in stride, and he has never rested on his laurels. 
Remember, Chuck Norris does not sleep. He waits. 
James Dechant is a senior English and Theology major who can be contacted at jdechant@nd.edu. One time, a man asked Chuck Norris ifhis real name was "Charles." Chuck Norris did not respond; he simply stared at him until he exploded. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
1.01 'IS t'O:< l"·l>lSl'.\H 'It 
~·-g)._~(.'i:U'h.'k:JrU-,.,(.'>:.'11\ 


News Sports OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY Jcnn Metz Fran Tolan Katie Kohler Greg Argobast Joe McMahon Matt Gamber What restaurant would you most 
Nikki Taylor Scene "Take calculated risks. This is guite 
like to see on campus? 

different from being rash. ' 
Graphics Chris McGrady Matt Hudson Viewpoint Michelle Johnson Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. George S. Patton 
U.S. general
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 25, 2007 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Reasonable regulation is key 
I love Notre Dame. I really do. I love the people, I love the campus, I love everything about this place. But this weekend, my friend, a 20 year-old jun­ior. was ticketed for blowing a .05 at an ofT-campus party. 
Since going to Turtle Creek the sec­ond week of our freshman year, my group of friends has received at least two Heslifes or tickets each. For the most part, these citations were exam­ples of being at the wrong place at the wrong time, with each of them blowing less than .10 every time. 
In light of all the political controversy regarding the new South Bend party ordinance. I believe that it is especially important that students voice a reason­able response to these community issues. 
When we're drinking underage, we know it is against Indiana State Law, and we could be penalized for breaking such laws. We get it. We're not igno­rant of our wrongs. We fully compre­hend that law enforcement is necessary to preserve both the peaceful atmos­phere of our institution and safety of the community. 
I think I speak for all of the student body when I say that we also realize that with the intensely high number of people visiting campus during football season, there is little room for leniency in this department. 
That being said, after three years of living at Notre Dame, I have yet to find a happy medium between respecting state law and being accused of turning Notre Dame into Wisconsin-Madison on Halloween. 
I have to question whether South Bend police breaking up an off-campus party are truly concerned with the health and safety of their fellow St. Joseph's County residents, or whether they have to meet their usual quota (which has probably been elevated 
Justice also 111eans equality 

I would like to respond to the comments Dan Toler made on the Jena Six on Monday ("Hate is hate, no matter what color," Sept. 24). 
While I can understand what Dan means, I feel he is ignoring some key facts. Here is a brief recap on the facts: Last fall, a new black student sat under the "white tree." The next day three white boys hung three nooses from the tree. The kids were given a light three day in-school suspension. 
The day after that, the black students had a peaceful silent protest at the tree. To put an end to the controversy, a school assembly was called and the local D.A. told the students, "With a stroke of this pen, I can make your life disappear." 
The issue died down until a wing of the school burned down November 30th, and each race blamed the other. Then a couple of days later a 22-year-old white man attacked a 1 7 -year-old Robert Bailey, one of the Jena Six. The white man was merely charged with battery, and was let off on probation. 
The next day, a white high school stu­dent pulled a gun on black students at a convenience store, and three black stu­dents wrestled the gun away from the kid. No charges were filed against the white kid; instead, the black kids were charged with theft of a firearm, second degree rob­bery, and disturbing the peace. 
Then on Dec. 4, the white student, Justin Barker, was laughing that Robert Bailey had been beaten up and was making inap­propriate racial remarks. 
An argument with some black students ensued. Barker was beaten up, treated at the hospital for minor injuries, and released that afternoon. Consequently, six black students were charged with attempt­ed murder and conspiracy to commit mur­der. 
The local D.A. decided to charge the kids as adults, and the first to go to trial, Mychal Bell, was convicted in June by an all-white jury and could face up to 22 years in prison. 
The issue here is injustice. I agree with Dan Toler, the Jena Six should be punished for their actions. However, it is clear by Dan's comment, "Since when do African­Americans get a pass on promoting good race relations?" that he has failed to real­ize that protesters are not demanding that the Jena Six be let of the hook; they are arguing that the charges were excessive and the Jena Six should be tried in a juve­nile court. 
It is quite clear that the legal system in Jena has given the whites involved in these events merely a slap on the wrist (or a free pass, to use Dan's words), while filing excessive charges on the blacks. 
People wore black last Thursday because they want fair and appropriate punish­ment for both the blacks and whites in Jena. 
Mark McGuire sophomore Keough Hall Sept. 24 

since the ordinance was presented). I know I am not the first or the last stu­dent to write regarding this issue, but nevertheless, the increasingly strict law enforcement has become a serious strain on the student body. 
To a certain extent, I firmly believe that the police department has to eval­uate the eulture within the United States. They surely understand that during our collegiate years, the aver­age student is going to consume alco­hol underage. 
That's just the way it is, and Step One in dealing with underage drinking is understanding that such behavior is inevitable and, quite often, harmless. Whether or not people want to admit it, drinking is as much a tradition at Notre Dame (and almost every university in the country) as football and Frosh-0. 
Overly enforcing the law is not the smoothest attempt at erasing an admit­tedly tainted aspect of our university's identity. Why can we all laugh at the Gipper's legendary boozing, but not at current college juniors having a drink? 
I know it may be a harsh reality, but Notre Dame, please listen: you're mak­ing your students extremely unhappy. Nobody wants to hear that the normal University of Notre Dame grad has at least two misdemeanors on their record. 
It's not a good stat. What we are ask­ing for is reasonable regulation. We love Notre Dame, and we don't want to look back on these years with such negative memories. 
Plus, as you well know, happy alumni give more money back to the school, so help us love it here. It's good for the endowment. · 
Carla DeMarzo-Sanchez 
junior 
McGlinn Hall Sept. 23 

Alternative vvays to fight ordinance 
I have been following your cover­age of the proposed ordinance by the South Bend Common Council to require registration for certain off campus parties. I would like to share an observation or two with your readers. 
First, I cannot condone bad behav­ior by Notre Dame students, but I'm reasonably certain that only a small minority of all undergraduate stu­dents is at the heart of this problem. Whether or not the Common Council is over-reacting with this particular ordinance, there may be some justifi­cation for their concerns, neverthe­less. 
I was a student at NO some years ago now, and while I lived on campus all four years, I remember that the trek back at closing time from what was then known as Frankie's could be somewhat raucous. 
However, ifthe Common Council is singling out Notre Dame students for disparate treatment, there should be recourse through the courts to have the ordinance nullified on constitu­tional grounds. 
That said, ifNotre Dame students feel that they are being made unwel­come by the South Bend Council, then they should explore every opportunity to take their business elsewhere. Ifa concerted effort, for example, was made to purchase all necessities (read: beer, wine, etc.) outside of South Bend, (in say, Niles and Mishawaka) perhaps the Common Council would have a better appreci­ation of the value that the Notre Dame students bring to South Bend year round. 
Perhaps too, the University could make more off campus housing avail­able to students away from the trou­bled neighborhood by providing accommodations in apartments and houses to the north and east of the campus outside of South Bend. 
Ifstudents were directed to suitable housing where their presence would be less disruptive, I am sure that many students would choose to live in areas that are safe, welcoming, and convenient to campus outside of South Bend. 
If nothing else, a skinnish such as this one can be a good vehicle to take everyone's mind off the football sea­son; and with winter just around the corner, a little something to keep the blood pumping is in order. 
Russ Stone Class of72 Amhersr,OH Sept. 24 

AllianceND focuses on tolerance, support 
I wanted to talk about a certain group I represent, AllianceND. You might know this group better by those orange 'Gay? Fine by me' shirts. Indeed, I find it encour­aging that the shirts (while admittedly not the height of fashion) do stand out and are recognized by most people on campus. 
But my aim here is to try and explain to some who may not know just what that orange-shirted group stands for. It's true, the slogan on the shirt almost encapsulates any kind of mission statement I could come up with, but it doesn't quite cover every­thing. 
AllianceND is an as-yet-unrecognized gay-straight alliance which works to create a tolerant and welcoming atmosphere for the entire Notre Dame family. We stand against homophobia and discrimination, which can and do occur at Notre Dame. 
We attempt to create a voice for an important group which we believe is not adequately represented by the university. I realize I might seem like a complete idiot with this next thought, but I believe this group not only to be uncontroversial, but necessary to create a truly catholic (in the universal sense of the word at the very least) atmosphere here at Notre Dame. 
Catholic doctrine states nowhere, and rightly so, that gay people are evil people less worthy of compassion and respect. Thus, why would the showing of compas­sion and respect for gay individuals, the showing of tolerance, be controversial? 
Moreover, the fact that our school is a family in the truest sense of the word necessitates that we take care of our own. 

The administration no doubt agrees with this idea to some extent, which is why we have the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students. 
Let me be the first to commend the administration for the creation and imple­mentation of this group, as their accom­plishments are valuable and appreciated. 
But I must also express my opinion that this group is not enough to effectively serve the gay community, and AllianceND is nat­urally my solution to this problem. 
The reasons behind my feelings would probably lengthen this article to a few pages of newspaper, so I regrettably won't go into specifics, but I point to the large support AllianceND receives from students, faculty, administration, and members of other groups dedicated to serving the gay community (including the Core Council itself) as evidence to the probability of my feelings being justified. 
Tolerance is a fairly easy idea to follow: all one must do to be tolerant is not wrong another. You could do that in your sleep. So I don't even have to ask anyone out there to try to be tolerant. 
I, and the organization I represent, only ask you not to do anything disrespectful or degrading to our gay community here at Notre Dame. Well, maybe that and to wear your orange shirts in unity every once in a while. 
Alex Renfro senior Alwnni Hall Sept. 24 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, September 25, 2007 

Tho nnw tnlnvision snason is upon us and I oncn again havn certain dreams and nxpnc:tations wlwn it eonws to my favorite eharac:tnrs and SPrins. 
lnnvitahly I willlw disappointnd by sonw ol' tlw dnvnlopnwnts (for exarnpln, wlwn "i\rrnstnd llnvnlopnwnt" got eanedlnd or wlwn Jony and Hadwl got togntlwr on "Frinnds"). But tlw start of thn nnw season oll'nrs rnn (and i\nwrint) a nnw 
Cassie Belek

lwginning and a nnw hopn. So lwn~ is my 
Assistant 

2007-200X tnlnvision 
Scene Editor 

snason wish list. Tnlnvision, don't hrnak rny !wart. 
My first wish is hy far tlw most impor­tant. I·:aeh snason a truly amazing show flirts with eancnllation dun to a rwglignnt audinnrn who should n~ally just listnn to thosp tnlnvision eritit~s. Last snason two such shows f'an•d this drnad f'ul fate, but thanks to tlw saving hand of ex-NBC Prnsidnnt., KPvin HPilly, "~()Hock" and "Friday Night Lights" livnd to snn anothnr day. I wish that thnsn snrins livn to sen not just anotlwr day but anothnr fnw seasons. Thn bnst t'onwdy and bnst drama on tnle­vision dnsnrvn a large and dndicatnd audi­ntH:n. 
My sncond wish involvos the campy and colorful "Ugly Bntty." Wonk aftnr week we sec Betty Suarez take her problems head on as she juggles her complicated home life and the unforgiving fashion world. But when dons Betty get her happy ending? Wn not only had to sutler as the braces­clad hnroinn pined after cutie accountant llenry, but once their happiness was in arm's reach, it was ripped away by I lenry's conniving ex-girlfriend. I wish for Betty's happiness, even just for one or two episodes. 
/\!though the single-camera sitcom is thP hot new ticket, the traditional multi­camera sitcom is still fighting for predom­inance. I'm one to shun the multi-camera sitcom with its irritating laugh track, but I do make a special exception for "IIow I Met Your Mother." It's like "Friends," but updatnd and a little truer to real life. In snason two, the npisodfl "Slap Bnt" -by far one of the funniest npisodes of television last season -gave us two delightful treats. Thn first was the introduction of the slap bl't. Everyone loves watching a good slap. 
The second treat was the revelation that friend Hobin is actually a former Canadian teen pop princess who went by the name of Hobin Sparkles. The full video for her hit single "Let's Go to the Mall" is avail­able online and it's a doozy. I wish that season three brings us not only more slap bets, but more of Hobin Sparkles' glorious musk. 

And last but certainly not least, I have a very special wish concerning "The Office." While much attention is devoted to Jim and Pam, my favorite "Oilice" relationship by far is Dwight and Angela's. Season three introduced us to the multiple dinwn­sions of their connection. While Jim and Pam have a somewhat dramatic relation­ship, Dwight and Angela offer us the most comedy out of their union. The two cra­zies found each other and, in the process, made the other less crazy. Therefore, my !ina] wish for the new television season is a Dwangela baby. I can imagine the pair keeping their relationship a secret as Angela's protruding belly enters each trimester. Priceless. 
I doubt that all my wishes will come true. What is television without bitter dis­appointment? Television and I truly bawl a love-hate relationship at times, but hopefi.Illy it will do right by me this one time. Like Betty, I too deserve my televi­sion happy ending. Just don't cancel "30 Hock" and "Friday Night Lights." That would just force me to do something crazy, like get rid of my DVH. Television, don't make me do it. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Cassie BeZek at cbelek@nd.edu 
MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 


Photo courtestv.yahoo.com America Ferrera plays Betty Suarez in the hit comedy-series "Ugly Betty." 


"Knocked Up," the comedy from the makers of 40-Year Old Virgin, is a film that has grossed millions of dollars worldwide. As the film comes out on DVD, be warned that this flick is not for everyone. 
The problem with "Knocked Up" was 
Nicole 
that the subject 
Eggenberger
matter was very 
serious, meaning 
some moments in 
Scene Writer 
the movie caused 
more tears than 
laughter. 
The main two couples in the film dealt with complicated, but familiar life-altering situations, which make the subject matter too realistic to be funny. After Alison Scott (Katherine Heigl) finds out she is pregnant with Ben Stone's (Seth Hogen) baby, the movie switches from comedic to depressing where Alison is crying that Ben is nei­ther supportive nor capable of being a decent father or relationship partner. Alison's sister Debbie (Leslie Mann) has an equally difficult time with the man in her life, husband Pete (Paul Rudd), who lies and ignores her on a regular basis. 
Had the women's behavior been depicted as funny, the film as a whole would have been a comedy. But the 

women were instead portrayed as the victims and the men as the insensitive jerks. Alison and Ben have serious arguments where Alison is crying that Ben is high all the time and unable to be there for her when she needs him. It is not funny to watch a pregnant women plead to her child's father to stop smoking pot and take an active role in being a parent instead. Who could laugh when a pregnant woman is crying about feeling completely alone and uncared for? Some may laugh at Ben's daytime activities of smoking pot and watching porn, but his actions directly affect Alison and force her to do everything for herself. Her days consist of doctor appointments, pain and nausea, and attempts to hide her pregnancy for her career's sake. That's not funny -that's just sad. 
Debbie and Pete's relationship is equally heartbreaking. Debbie longs to regain a friendship with Pete, but he wants distance. Pete says, "Do you ever wonder how somebody could even like you? The biggest problem in our mar­riage is that she wants me around. And I can't even accept that? I don't think I can accept pure Jove." He is married but doesn't want to be around his wife and doesn't think he loves her the way she loves him. That is sad. While she is completely devoted to him and wants to be even closer to him, he wants to get away and be alone. When Pete lies to Debbie about where he goes at night, she cries about how hurt she is that he would lie and not want to spend that time alone with her. Debbie says, "You think because you don't yell, you're not mean. This is mean." That is not funny; it's awful to see someone so hurt by someone she cares so much about. 
"Knocked Up" definitely has its funny moments, but usually they deal with other characters and are not related to the movie's main relationships. Luckily the film ends with Ben pulling his life together and making a home for Alison and their baby, but the couple only reached that point after a sad and depressing nine months. 
Pete tells Ben, "Marriage is like that show 'Everybody Loves Haymond,' but it's not funny. All the problems are the same, but you know instead of all the funny, pithy dialogue, everybody is really pissed off and tense." That's how "Knocked Up" was -like an episode of "Everybody Loves Haymond," but not as funny. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Nicole Eggenberger at neggenbe@nd. edu 
-----------------------------------------------------" 

.-------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Tuesday, September 25, 2007 
page 13 

Bringing Down the 
[8Jo u s EMO 
S T 0 R 

HIT SHOW CLIMBS HIGHER 
On Tuesday night, all of your mal­adies will be cured. All those itchy little voices in your head telling you to always say nice things, always be polite, and lin when the truth is mean will be driven out. 
"House" is coming home. 
Gregory House returns to his primetime throne Sept. 25 as the king of truth -just not the truth you always like to hear. This paragon of the phrase "the truth hurts" will once again grace television screens as he solves the most unusual med­ieal eases and cures his patients against all odds. 
!louse brings back Tuesday's glory with his classic biting wit and ability to say everything you would if you were a) quick enough to think of it and b) gutsy enough to say it out loud. 
"House" has come a long way. Three seasons ago "House, M.D." premiered to a healthy audience and quickly began bringing in awards, everything from Emmys to Golden Globes {two of which went straight to Hugh Laurie for Best Actor in a Drama Series). The show has also received a llumanitas award, a Screen Actors Guild award and the Peabody award for Best Electronic Media. 
Throughout the next two seasons the ratings began to climb, and last season Gregory House managed to take down Meredith Grey of "Grey's Anatomy" in the weekly Nielsen rat­ings. "House, M.D." is also the first show to challenge Fox's other mega­hit, "American Idol." 
Executive producer Katie Jacobs and creator David Shore have brought "House" full circle. Tonight the world will find out how House deals with being "Alone," the title of the premier episode. Earlier this summer Jacobs went to Fox and asked if they could "play survivor" on "House" in order to find his new team of doctors. 
The plan is to start with 40 prospective employees and have House narrow them down as the sea­son continues. Rumor has it that one of the surviving M.D.'s will be Kal Penn of Harold & Kumar fame. But whatever happens, it won't be conventional, that's for sure. Let's just hope these doctors can handle "House"'s House of Pain. 
Quotable Quotes From House 

"There's no 'I in team, but there is a me though if you jumble it up a bit." 
"People choose the paths that grant them the greatest rewards for the least amount of 
effort." 
E S 8 y STEPHAN 

E D e 

If you are a newcomer to the world of "House," you might want to take the time to read this background based on the first three seasons. It will leave you fully pre­pared to enjoy the next season. 
Gregory House is a diagnostician with a specialty in infectious diseases. He works at Princeton Plainsboro Hospital under the ever-watchful eyes of Dr. Lisa Cuddy, Dean of Medicine. She manages to put up with House's unorthodox methods (and ever-present insults about her ever-plung­ing neckline). 
House's best friend is Dr. James Wilson, an oncologist whose office is next door to House's. Wilson is around to foil House, point out his flaws and be his conscience. Wilson is probably the only person House will listen to. (It's a known fact that the series attempts to mirror Sherlock Holmes House/Holmes, Wilson/Watson.) 
A number of years ago House had an infarction in his right thigh. If it happens in your heart, it's a heart attack; in your brain, it's a stroke; and in the muscle, it's an infarction. His doctors wanted to remove the leg but House refused. Instead, he insisted they cut off the mus­cle and let it die. He still has his leg, but it's basically immobile. That's why he walks with a cane. 
House is also addicted to Vicodin. In his words, "If I'm in a butt load of pain, I need a butt load of pills." 

For the past three seasons House has had three doctors working for him -Dr. Eric Foreman (neurologist), Dr. Robert Chase (intensive care), and Dr. Alison Cameron (pathologist). They managed to survive under House's rule and even learned from him as they were forced to do his bidding and challenge his deci­sions. 
Cameron had a crush on House in the first season, but after she forced him to go on a date with her that quickly dissolved. During the last season Chase developed a crush on Cameron that was finally requit­ed in the season finale. 
At the end of last season, Foreman quit because he did not want to turn into House. Instead of talking to Foreman and asking him to stay (as Wilson was sug­gesting) House turned around and fired Chase, saying that Chase had learned all he could. In the last 30 seconds of the finale Cameron handed House her letter of resignation. 
The team disbanded and left House completely on his own. 
It remains to be seen where this next season will go, but ifit is anything like the previous installments of "House," it is sure to be a dramatic and enjoyable ride. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
P R E Z 
fALLING IN LOVE WITH HUGH 
Hugh Laurie is television's most respected British comedian. Or at least, that's how he started. Laurie began cracking jokes in college while he attended Cambridge. He was president of the undergraduate com­edy team the Footlights Club with Emma Thompson, who was vice president. After Cambridge he began to work with Steven Fry, who became his true comedy partner. 
"A Bit of Fry and Laurie" is classic British comedy. This sketch show began in the 80s and featured Fry and Laurie protraying a myriad of characters. The jokes are still good -the DVD's have recently been released and are selling well. I rent­ed Season One this summer, and, while watching it one night, turned around. to find my entire family laughing out loud on the couch. Think "Monty Python" meets "Saturday Night Live." 
Fry and Laurie also did a series called "Jeeves and Wooster" which was big in Britain. Laurie's most well known work in America is prob­ably his role in the "Blackadder" series, with Rowan Atkinson (who is currently starring in the movie "Mr. Bean's Holiday"). 
Aside from British humor, Laurie has appeared in many bit-roles in American films. He was Jasper in "101 Dalmations" with Glenn Close and played the dad in "Stuart Little." In 2004 he starred with Dennis Quaid in "Flight of the Phoenix." While stranded in the desert filming on location for that movie, he recorded an audition tape for a new American TV show slated to be called "Medical Mysteries." Laurie had to film the tape unshaven (like his Phoenix char­acter) and in a bathroom because it was the only place that had good lighting. · 
When Brian Singer, producer of the new show, saw Laurie's cranky char­acter, he supposedly got out of his seat and went close to the TV and­proclaimed Laurie to be the real American man he was looking for. It was only later that Singer found out that Laurie is, in fact, British. He was hired anyway. 
Three seasons of success later, Laurie hasn't let anything go to his head. Though he has single-handedly led "House, M.D." to its current sta­tus in the ratings, Laurie acts like it's a fluke, like he couldn't possibly be that good. He shared his woes to Jay Leno last week when he admitted, "As far as I can remember in my life I have never asked a girl to dance, I have never asked a girl out and I have never had a party." 
Besides his ability to ignore his own accomplishments, Laurie is also an expert musician. He is currently the keyboardist in Band From TV, made up of actors from various shows such as "Heroes." All of the proceeds from their gigs go to charity. Their new rendition of "Can't Always Get What You Want" features Laurie on vocals and is on the recently-released "House" soundtrack. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 25, 2007 
MLB-NL 
N ats win over Mets opens door for Phillies 
Fielder hits league-leading 48th home run to help bring Brewers within three games of division-leading Cubs 
nvnry pitch and every out is." 

Associated Press 
Matt Chko ((J-9) pitelwd into 

NI•:W YOHK-Thn Nnw York llw sixth inning and Hyan Mnts wantPd to gt't oil' to a fast Langnrhans hit a thrnn-run start on llwir SPason-nnding honwr in tlw ninth for homnstand. Washington, whi<:h did Nnw York 
By l.lw PIHI of tlw night, thny a favor by bnating the Phillit1S 5­just wantnd to mow on. :{ on Sunday. 
Thn Mnts squandnn•d a dumcn "Wn'rn not going to roll over," to widnn thnir lmtd in tlw Nl. said Nationals manager Manny 1\ast as Austin KParns hit a Acta. tlw Milts' third basn coach 
t.h rnn-ru n honw r and Honn in thn prnvious two seasons. "I still Bnlliard drovn in thrn1~ morn in think they havn tlw best team in l.lw Washington Nationals' 1:{-4 our division. If I'm going to piek a victory Monday. situation I'll pick their situation, 
"It.'s ovm· now," Nnw York rnan­two ~ames up with [sixl gam<\S to agnr Willin Handolph said. "We play. havn to get mady for tomorrow." The Mets, coming ofT a 4-3 
Nnw York's rnagir number road trip, couldn't overeome a nmwinml at fivn and its lead in sluggish outing by right-hander the division droppnd to two Mikn l'nlfrny in the first of seven ganws ovnr idle Philadelphia. straight at Shea Stadium to dose Tho Mots play the Nationals out the rngular season. again Tuesday while the Phillins "I lnt the team down," Pelfrey host Atlanta in tlw opener of a said. "I didn't keep us in the thrnn-gamn series. game." 
"It's nmbarrassing with the Tlw Nationals pushed across season on the line to go out there two in the fourth and thn~e in the and get embarrassed on your fifth before they chased Pelfrey own horne finld." said David (3-X) during a two-run sixth. Wright, who had thn~n hil'i. Pelfrey was 3-0 with a 3.31 ERA 
Carlos Delgado went 2-for-5 in his previous three starts but and Moises !\lou extended his struggled with his control against dub-record hilling streak to 28 Washington. homer of the season. "Really, I've got no comment," now and n~ally have to win all of games with a sixth-inning double lie walked Hyan Zimmerman "We all know that we're play­Yost said. "We played a great our games," Bush said. for thn Mots. who had won four and Hyan Church with two outs ing these guys and the Phillies to ballgame, and some of this stuff "Everyone's a little fired up right of five. !\lou also committed an in the fifth, and Kearns followed end the season," said Kearns, gets a little out of hand." now, and sometimes it gets error in lel'lthat allowed a run to with a drive to left-center that whose team travels to Still, simply winning in the final expressed in different ways." score in the fourth. made it 5-1. It was his 15th Philadelphia after the series week of the season won't be With Milwaukee leading 11-2 
against New York. "I always enough to save the Brewers' fad­in the sixth, Yost joined Fielder in enjoyed playing these teams ing playoff hopes. arguing a called third strike with because they are teams that They'll need some cooperation plate umpire Phil Cuzzi. could be in the playoffs. You real­from the Cubs, who were off Both went back to the dugout ize what you have to do to win Monday and finish the season without getting ejected despite and how important with six games on the road. their recent high-prolile umpire 
Chicago's magic number-the confrontations; Fielder served a Brewers 13, Cardinals 5 combination of Cubs wins and two-game suspension last month 
If the Milwaukee Brewers are Brewers losses needed to clinch for inappropriate contact with an going down, they'rn going down the division title -remained at umpire. swinging. four. Asked about the call after the 
And so is their manager. Yost doesn't want his players game, Fielder punted. 
Prince Fielder hit his NL-lead­doing too much math this week. "I just work here," Fielder said. ing 48th home run and Ned Yost He'd prefer they just concentrate Geoff Jenkins' HBl single put was ejected for the second con­on trying to win the rest of their the Brewers up 12-2, but the real secutive game -this time along games. fireworks had only begun. with his catcher and hitting Easier said than done, catcher After Cuzzi called Miller out on coach -in the Brewers' victory Damian Miller said. strikes to end the inning, Miller over the St. Louis Cardinals on "You can't help it," said Miller, turned back to bark at Cuzzi as Monday. ejected before the seventh he walked to the dugout. Cuzzi 
Milwaukee moved within three inning. "It's human nature to try then ejncted Brewers hitting games of the first-plaee Chicago to figure it out." coach Jim Skaalen between Cubs in the NL Central. Brewers starter Dave Bush innings al'tnr hn started arguing 
After the victory, Yost didn't (12-10) said the team's continued from the dugout -and Miller bash the umpires the way he did squabbling with umpires was an was tossed after he began to after getting tossed in Atlanta on indication that players haven't argue with Cuzzi as the catcher Sunday, and again before lost their intensity. walked out to take his place Monday's game. "We're in a tough spot right behind home-plate. 
--~-=--================================================================== 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 F.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AI dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 


SCHOOL BUS SUBSTITUTE DRI­VER NEEDED. Responsible, 

WANTED dependable, safety conscious grad student sought to drive a school bus for a private south-side SB school. 
STUDENT WORK $12.75 base-Must be available when needed appt. Flexible schedules, no experi-(flexible) from 7 a.m. to 8:15a.m., ence needed, customer saleslserv-and 3:15p.m. to 4:30p.m. Each trip ice, conditions apply, all ages 18+, pays $33. Need a Commercial 
Driver License -will train around 574-273-3835, your schedule and pay for your CDL training, but must have residency in www. workforstudents.com Indiana. For application/interview 
call Babysitter for 16-mo-old boy. Weekdays from 4-7 p.m. 574-291-4200. 
Brick ranch w/walkout LL,gourmet kitchen, vaulted ceilings. Park-like street. Close to ND. 
574-217-1557 Tatiana 
Call me for a list of properties near ND. 
574-217-1557 Tatiana 
Remodeled ranch near ND with all appliances included! 1446 sq.ft.,3 BR, 1 Bath and x-large 2-car garage. $104,000. 574-340-1651. 

Call574-229-3020.  
PART TIME help needed for small womens retail shop downtown  FoR SALE  FoR RENT  
South Bend.  
Awesome riverfront new construe- LODGING FOR FOOTBALL  
Approximately 10-15 hours a week.  lion 12 min. to ND. 4 bdr,4bath,mar- GAMES Visit www.amishcoun- 
Must be able to work Saturdays.  ble,ceramics,h/w floors.  trybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and  
Jacuzzi,deck,pier.  Breakfast Accommodations. Non- 
Apply in person: Laura Lees, 121 S.  smoking, Private Baths, Full  
Michigan Street  574-217-1557 Tatiana  Breakfasts.  

Homes for 08-09. 4-6 bedrooms. Spring Break 2008. Sell Trips, Eam Walk to ND. 574-876-7341. For Cash and Go Free. Call for group Football weekends, call574-532-TICKETS discounts. Best Deals Guaranteed! 1408. Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, 
Bahamas, S.Padre, Florida. 2bdrm house w/basement, wash-WANTED -ND FOOTBALL TIX. er/dryer. Corby at Eddy 574-232-PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570 800-648-4849 or 
9084. www.ststravel.com 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. 3 bdrm house. Walk to ND. Washer ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232-0964. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do & dryer. $750/mo. Good neighbor-www. victorytickets.com not go it alone. If you or someone hood. Landlord does yard work. No you love needs confidential support Pets. No Section 8. Call574-250-ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. or assistance, please call Sr. Sue 1266. 57 4-288-2726. Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more 
information, visit our website at: HOUSE FOR RENT CLOSE TO Buying BC/USC lix. 574-277-1659. http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslpreg-CAMPUS (North Shore Triangle nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad neighborhood) 3 bedrooms, 1 bath, SELLING ND-PURDUE TIX. 574-in THE OBSERVER. AIC, dishwasher, washer/dryer, rent 289-8048. $750 per month plus utilities. MARKETING OPPORTUNITY Available immediately. Call 243-Positions available in the marl<eting 7763. Email cventer@nd.edu department of a nationally known 
PERSONAL sales and marl<eting company. HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2008-Hourly wage + bonuses for telemar­
09: 3-9 BEDROOM HOMES. If you or someone you care about keters and canvassers. Income CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Call Bill has been sexually assaulted, visit potential to $25.00/hr or morel Call 
http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. Mr. Brown at 574-522-0500 from 574-532-1896. shtml 1:00pm to 6:00pm ONLY 

OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, September 25, 2007 Co,~tPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 15 
Major League Baseball 
team Boston New York Toronto Baltimore Tampa Bay 
team 
Cleveland Detroil Minnesota Chicago 
Kansas City 
tr.am 
Los Angeles Seattle Oakland Texas 
team 
New York 
American League East 
record  perc.  last 10  
92-64  .590  4-6  
90-66  .577  7-3  
79-77  .506  6-4  
66-89  .426  4·6  
64-92  .410  a.7  

American League Central 
record  perc.  last 10  
92-63  .594  7-3  
85-72  .541  5·5  
77-79  .494  5·5  
68·88  .436  6·4  
67-89  .428  4·6  

American League West 
record perc . last 10 92-64 .590 6-4 83-72 .535 6-4 75·82 .478 5-5 72-84 .462 3-7 
National League East 
record perc. last 10 87-68 .561 4-6 

Philadelphia  85-71  .545  8·2  
Atlanta  82-74  .526  8·2  
Washington  69-87  .442  4-6  
Florida  66-90  .423  3-7  

National League Central 

team 
Chicago Milwaukee St.Louis Cincinnati Houston Piltsburgh 
team 
Arizona San Diego Colorado Los Angeles 
record  perc.  last 10  
83-73  .532  8·2  
79-76  .510  5·5  
73-82  .471  4·6  
71-85  .455  4·6  
68-88  .436  5·5  
66-90  .423  1·9  

National League We$t 
record perc. last 10 88-68 .564 6-4 85·70 .548 7-3 84-72 .538 8-2 80-76 .513 3-7 

San Francisco 69-87 .442 3-7 
GB 
2 13 25.5 28 
GB 
8 15.5 24.5 25.5 
GB 
8.5 16.5 20 
GB 
2.5 5.5 18.5 21.5 
GB 
3.5 
9.5 
12 
15 
17 
GB 
2.5 
4 
8 
19 

Women's Soccer Rankings 
team  points  previous  
1  Stanford  822  1  
2  Santa Clara  792  3  
3  Portland  758  4  
4  Texas A&M  692  5  
5  Texas  651  7  
6  UCLA  637  6  
7  Virginia  618  10  
8  North Carolina  599  2  
9  Boston College  546  8  
10  South Carolina  510  16  
11  Florida State  448  13  
12  Florida  447  9  
13  Tennessee  415  15  
14  Rutgers  312  12  
15  Purdue  282  22  
16  Oklahoma State  271  21  
17  Penn Slate  263  20  
18  West Virginia  252  18  
19  California  248  14  
20  Clemson  180  17  
21  NOTRE DAME  179  11  
22  Southern Cal  175  24  
23  .Connecticut  157.5  23  
24  Marquette  153.5  25  
25  Brigham Young  54  RV  

around the dial 
MLB Cubs at Marlins 7:05p.m., WCIU 
MLB 


AP Padres outfielder Milton Bradley, bottom right, is restrained by manager Bud Black following an argument with umpire Mike Winters on Sunday. Bradley will miss the remainder of the season with a torn ACL. 
Bradley to miss rest of season with torn ACL 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -Milton Bradley is done for the season, Mike Cameron might not be in much bet­ter shape and the livid San Diego Padres tried to regroup Monday from a bizarre chain of events that left their outfield depleted with a week to go in the season. 
Bradley will miss the rest of the year with a torn anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee. He was injured when his own manager spun him to the ground while trying to keep him from going after umpire Mike Winters dur­ing an eighth-inning con­frontation in Sunday's 7-3 loss to Colorado at Petco Park. 
The commissioner's office said Monday it is investigating whether the volatile Bradley was baited by Winters. The Padres said Winters directed pro­fanities at Bradley right before the blowup. 
"I know there will be a thorough investigation of the dialogue between Milton and Mike Winters," Padres general manager Kevin Towers said before San Diego opened a three­game series in San Francisco. "I have a lot of confidence there will be due process and it will be handled well. For Milton's sake, he certainly has the support of our ballclub." 

Black, the Padres' first­year manager, called it an unfortunate development for a team that had its wild-card lead trimmed to just a half-game over Philadelphia. Bradley, the club's starting left fielder, was playing in his third game after missing 12 with a muscle injury. 
"I feel bad for Milton," Black said. "I feel bad for him because I know he was coming back from the oblique and he was look­ing forward to playing here down the stretch. 
"He's a very strong guy. My thought was, 'I've got to do everything I can to keep Milton away from any confrontation because if he gets suspended it's going 
IN BRIEF 
Troubled Tyson pleads
guilty to DUI, ilrug cliarges 
MESA, Ariz. -Former heavy­weight champion Mike Tyson pleaded guilty Monday to charges of drug possession and driving under the influence stemming from a traffic stop last year as he was leaving a night­club. 
Tyson quietly acknowledged to a judge that he had cocaine and was impaired when he was stopped for driving erratically in Scottsdale on Dec. 29. 
He pleaded guilty to a single felony count of cocaine posses­sion and a misdemeanor DUI count and faces up to four years and three months in prison when he is sentenced Nov. 19. A felony charge of possession of drug paraphernalia and a second mis­demeanor DUI charge were dropped as part of a plea agree­ment. 

Developments continue in 
Vick dogfighting case 
RICHMOND, Va. -The prosecu­tor in the rural county wher·e Atlanta Falcons quarterback Michael Vick has admitted to bankrolling a dogfighting opera­tion plans to present "a host of bills of indictment" regarding the case to a grand jury on Tuesday. 
"Yes, I'm presenting matters to the grand jury that involve dog­fighting at 1915 Moonlight Hoad," Surry County Commonwealth's Attorney Gerald G. Poindexter told The Associated Press in a telephone interview Monday night. 
Moonlight Road is the address of the two story home on 15 most­ly undeveloped acres that has been host to "Bad Newz Kennels" since 2001. It's where dozens of pit bulls were found in April, and where they were trained, fought and brutally executed. 
to cost us games."' 
Bradley will seek a sec­ond opinion in Cincinnati. Towers expects him to have surgery for a "signifi­cant" tear within about a week. The recovery process is expected to be at least six months. 
Batting .313, Bradley hit his 11th homer with San Diego and 13th overall earlier in Sunday's game. 
Cameron, a Gold Glove center fielder, has a par­tially torn ligament in his right thumb and a strain in the same area. He was hurt when he made a slid­ing attempt at Garrett Atkins' inside-the-park home run in the fifth inning Sunday, then had Bradley step on his hand. 

Last suspect in Simpson 
case posts bail, will be freed 
LAS VEGAS -The final man jailed in the O.J. Simpson armed robbery case posted bail, and a lawyer for one his co-defendants asked prosecutors Monday for all materials related to the sports memorabilia heist. 
Charles Cashmore posted $28,000 bail late Sunday, but remained behind bars at the Clark County Detention Center awaiting assignment to a house arrest case officer, according to a court official and his lawyer, Edward Miley. Cashmore, 40, of Las Vegas, was expected to be 
freed Tuesday  or  Wednesday,  
Miley said.  
Co-defendant  Michael  

McClinton's lawyer filed docu­ments asking prosecutors to turn over copies of tapes, transcripts and statements of co-defendants involved in the case. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, September 25, 2007 
MLB-AL 

Yanks lose makeup game, Red Sox lead grows 
Twins put Tigers on brink of elimination from playoff race, Orioles finish season with perfect record against Royals 
4,271,356, breaking last year's
Associated Press 
mark of 4,243,780. 
NI\W YOBK -The New York Still, it was a sleepy afternoon Yanknns took a day ofT Monday. for most everyone on the New At least, that's how it looked. York side. Derek Jeter mis­
Tho Yankees' drive for a play­played an easy grounder for an ofT spot paused, with Andy error, Hodriguez let a bouncer l'nttittn falling behind early and roll underneath his glove and a smallish crowd watching Pettitte (14-9) struggled. Toronto rookie Jesse Litsch Konnedy had a tough start, pitch the Bltw .Jays to a 4-1 vie­too, and he didn't even pitch. tory. The 22-year-old was briefly 
"It dnlinitely felt like a make­stopped at the players' entrance up gamn," l'ettittn said. by a guard who didn't recognize 
Besdwdulnd from an April 25 him. rainout, tlwre was hardly any Litsch (7-9) also looked a little energy in the ballpark. That is, dif'f'erent. at least to the until it was over. Yankees. They'd tagged him 
Tlwn, in tlwir version of mok­twke this season. but this time in hazing, tlw Yankees made he pitched five-hit ball for 7 2/3 tlwir nnwconwrs dress up in innings without a walk. Wizard of Oz costumes for tlw "You want to keep people out bus ride to tlw airport and 11 ight as much as you want to win to Tampa Bay. There was plenty yourself," Litsch said. of' hooting and hollnring, and the Casey Janssen finished for his rooks all posed for pil'tures. sixth save. 
.Joba Chamberlain drew the Litsch started in place of A.J . Cowardly Lion, Edwar Bamiroz Burnett, who left the Blue Jays was tlw WicktHI Witch of the for a day on what they West and Jan Knnnedy was doscribed as "personal busi­I>orothy. noss." 

"I think I got the short end," Burnett's absence appeared to Ktmnedy said, stepping into his be a brnak for the Yankees. He sparkly, ruby rt•d slippers. was 1-0 with an 0.60 EHA in League title. and three hits over seven Bell wasn't exactly thrilled 
llad things clicked right, tho two starts against them this sea­Minnesota's Carlos Silva shut innings. about leaving Detroit for Yanknns could've clinched a son. down Detroit over 7 2/3 innings "lie pitched extremely well. Baltimore before going to postseason berth -tlwy nnndnd Instead, Litsch and the Blue in a victory Monday night that That's a shame," Leyland said. Chicago in the span of three a win, coupled with a Detroit .Jays did finn on their own. put the Tigers on the brink of "That was a tough-luck loss." days. lie was less enamored loss later against Minnesota. "We're going after our own being eliminated from the play­Hobertson struck out six and with playing at night. 
Instnad. tlw Yanknns nnvnr pride," manager John Gibbons oil' race. walked four, and one of those ''I'm still trying to figure out quito woke up in their f'inal said. ''I've never seen them tank "I think it's kind of sad," losing led to trouble. why we didn't play a day game," honw game of the regu Jar sea­it." pitcher Nate Robertson said. "A Michael Cuddyer walked to Bell said bnfore the game. son and fell two garnns behind The Blue Jays also had a not­lot of people were enjoying our lead olT the second. Third base­The Orioles probably would idle Boston in tlw AL East. so-alert moment. With two outs run. man Brandon Inge then bobbled have preferred a day off, but 
Alex Bodriguez drove in thn and runners at the corners in "But we're still not out of it." Matt LeCroy's grounder, and had they played hard anyway. Yankees' lorw run for his 147th the eighth, left fielder Heed Mathematically, that's true. to settle for a throw to first "This is the final week for us IWI. allwit on a dribbler that Johnson caught a fly ball and The Tigers (85-72) are one instead of a possible double at home, and it's a good way to barely rolled halfway down thn firnd home, forgetting the inning loss, or a New York Yankees' play. get it started," manager Dave l'irst-hasP lirw. Many hitters was over. win, from officially being rele­Punta's two-out single to lef't Trembley said. "I thought the swung at tlw first pitch as Nnw Pitching for the first time since gated to watching this postsea­brought home Cuddyer. guys showed a lot of hustle York lost filr just the fourth tinw posting his 200th career victory, son. The Tigers have lost live of Kubel's two-out single off tonight. They played hard. in tho last 1 H games. Pettitte fell behind :~-0 in the their last seven games, speeding Fernando Rodney in the ninth There was a lot of enthusiasm 
"Wn wnrnr!'t anything ofTen­seeond inning. up the seemingly inevitable con­drove in pinch-runner Jason from the first inning." sivnly today," manager .Jon elusion to their season. Tyner and made it 2-0. Markakis hit his 22nd homer Torw said. Twins 2, Tigers 0 New York leads Detroit in the The Tigers had two on and no on an 0-1 pitch from Gil Meche 
Thoro were only about 12,000 Nearly 33,000 fans were on AL wild-card race by 5 112 outs in the sixth, but Silva got (9-13), who allowed seven hits people in tlw seats when tlw tlwir feet eheering, hoping the games. out of the jam with a double in his first complete game of the game started. Ofl'ieially, there Detroit Tigers would rally in the "There is not one guy here play -despite the Tigers exe­season. wert~ 2:~.56 7 fans at thn park. ninth inning to maintain their that is not going to show up cuting a hit and run -and a Markakis struck out twice and 
Beeause all 5:{,2H1 tickt~ts flicknring playofl' hopes. until this is over," Detroit first pop up. hit a weak grounder to second were sold, this counted as tlw They lnt out a collective sigh baseman Sean Casey said. "With Carlos, a lot was said as base before driving a eurveball Yankees' 50th sPllout of' thP whtm Dntroit fell short and took Nick Punta's HBI single in the to whether he would be able to over the center-field wall. ynar. That brought their season anothnr step toward losing a second inning and Jason Kubel's help us this year," Gardenhire "I was a bit frustrated my first attendance to a record ehanct1 to defend the American run-searing single in the ninth said. "He's answered those two at-bats, but I was able to 
was all the offense for questions." see all his pitches. and then in Minnesota, which has won five my last at-bat I was able to put of seven to increase its chances Orioles 3, Royals 2 a pretty good swing on it," of f'inishing with a winning In a season filled with nega­Markakis said. record for the seventh straight tives, the Baltimore Orioles can Said Meche: "lin hit a great year. The Twins (77-79) had lost perhaps derive a bit of consola­pitch. I don't rnmnrnber thP last seven in a row against the tion from one noteworthy time I've seen a guy hit my Tigers. accomplishment: They never curveball that hard. lin was sit­
Detroit used its bflst lineup, lost to the Kansas City Hoyals. ting on it, and he got it." but eouldn 't seore against Silva Nick Markakis hit a tiebreak­Meche struck out f'ivt~ and (13-14). who gave up six hits ing homer in the eighth inning walked one in his second loss to without a walk and struck out and the Orioles completed a Baltimore this snason. one. season sweep of the Royals with "Gil pitehed great. We scored 
"A couple of runs was good a victory Monday night. two runs. You're not going to enough against a real good Baltimore went 7-0 agai_nst win a lot of games doing that," team," manager Hon Kansas City. It's only the sixth Bell said. Gardenhire said. "You rarely time in club history that Kansas City trailed 2-1 in the shut those guys out." Baltimore swept a season series eighth before Mark 
The Tigers were shut out for from an AL opponent. Grudzielanek tied it with his just the third time in 157 games The Orioles are assured a first career pinch-hit home run this season. lOth straight losing season, and in 1,682 major league games. 
Glen Perkins got the final out they still have a chance to finish The drive came against Jamie of the eighth, with the potential in last place in the AL East. But Walker (3-2), who was making tying run at second. Joe Nathan they sure knew how to handle his club-record 80th appearance allowed two runners to get into the Royals. of the season. scoring position in the ninth, but "They scored more runs than Chad Bradford pitched the got Ivan Rodriguez to ground we have," Kansas City manager ninth for his second save. out for his 35th save in 39 Buddy Bell said with no small Returning from a six-game chances. degree of irritation. suspension, Orioles starter 
"We had a chance, but he's The game was a makeup of a Daniel Cabrera allowed one run one of the best closers in base­rainout on April 15. The and six hits in seven innings. He ball," manager Jim Leyland announced attendance was left with a 2-1 lead, but the no­
AP said. 15,769, but there were no more decision made the right-hander 



Tigers second baseman Placido Polanco catches a pop fly dur­Robertson (8-13) took the loss than a few thousand fans in the 0-5 in seven starts since Aug. Ing Detroit's 2-0 loss Monday to Minnesota. despite giving up only one run stands. 14. 
Tuesday, September 25, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Piniella, Cubs see finish line after wild season 
une 2 temper tantrum looked upon as one turning point in Cubs rise to first place in NL Central over Brewers 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Lou Piniella called upon decades of base­ball knowledge when the Chicago Cubs were scuffling for the first two months. Ile watched intently, took mental notes and then started swap­ping out the parts. 
Finally. he used some the­atrics to literally kick-start his team. Turns out, a dirt­kicking temper tantrum against umpire Mark Wegner on June 2 was just what the Cubs needed. whether it was premeditated or not. whether it was the old Lou resurfacing in the morP nwllow one. 
"It's just nvolved. I don't think there were any turning points. We had to do some things to straighten ourselves out and just let the guys play," Piniella said. "If things aren't working -and they weren't working earlier in the year -you try to do dif­ferent things to shore things up." 
The Cubs fell nine games under .500 that day after Piniella was ejected, but are 61-42 since June 3. Now, 3 1/2 months later, Chicago is on the cusp of clinching the NL Central. The magic num­ber is four headed into the final week of the season with three-game road series in Florida and Cincinnati begin­ning Tuesday. 
The Cubs have a comfort­able working margin, but the franchise has a long history of gut-wrenching collapses, like in 1969 when they led by 9 1/2 games in mid-August only to have the Mets whiz by them. 

Three years ago, they led the wild card by 1 112 games with nine games left before falling apart in the final week, losing three of four at home to the Reds and missing the playoffs. 
And four years ago, in Dusty Baker's first season as manager, the Cubs led the Marlins 3-1 in the NL Championship Series. With a 3-0 lead in the eighth inning of Game 6, they were a mere five outs from the World Series. But Florida scored eight runs after a fan inter­fered with a foul ball, went on to win that night and again in Game 7. 


U.S.AIR FORCE!  
R•O•T•C  
Azerbaijani  
Bengali  
Cambodian  
Chinese  
Hausa  
Hindi  
Indonesian  ~·  
Japanese  Tuition assistance  ~  
Kazakh  

Monthly living allowance Malay Officer commission
Pashtu See the world.
Persian Russian Serb-Croatian Swahili Thai Turkish Uighur Urdu-Punjabi Uzbek Vietnamese 
If you speak any of these foreign languages or are currently learning one, we have countless opportunities awaiting you in Air Force ROTC. 
Call1-866-4AF-ROTC or visit AFROTC.COM. 

So, nothing is safe. Not that the past means much to a team that was overhauled in the offseason with $300 mil­lion going to salaries. 
The Cubs trailed Milwaukee this season by 8 112 games on June 23 but have caught and passed the young and talent­ed Brewers. 
"Nothing has been clinched yet," said second baseman Mark DeRosa, one of the key offseason acquisitions. "Milwaukee, I have a lot o( respect for them. They've played hard all year and we know they're not going to go down easy." 
The season has been a memorable one already for the Cubs. 
A franchise-record atten­dance of 3.25 million came to Wrigley Field. There was a fight in the dugout and club­house between ace Carlos Zambrano and catcher Michael Barrett, who was later traded; a brawl with the Padres; a $91 million con­tract extension for Zambrano, who criticized the fans for booing him and then later apologized. The temperamen­tal right-hander has a career­high 17 wins but also 13 loss­es and has been bothered by heat cramping. 
All this with the knowledge since opening day that the team is going to go on the auction block, probably sometime after the World Series. 
The 64-year-old Piniella can't name one specific game or incident he thinks got the Cubs turned around. 
Still, making Ryan Theriot his every-day shortstop gave the team a spark, and the Cubs have never wavered in using their young players. Reliever Carlos Marmo! has pitched 22 1-3 consecutive scoreless innings and catcher Geovany Soto, a late callup after an MVP season in the Pacific Coast League, has given the team another strong bat and good defense behind the plate. 
Piniella mixed those young players with veterans like Alfonso Soriano, Aramis Ramirez and Derrek Lee. He moved Jacque Jones, who was languishing on the bench and nearly traded. into the starter's role in center field and he also got a strong sea­son from lefty starter Ted Lilly. All those have helped make the Cubs winners ­they have 12 victories in their last 16 games headed into Tuesday night's game at Florida. 
"We've been preparing for this eventuality, for this last week," Piniella said. "Now we've got business to take care of and hopefully we can do it soon so we can rest our team a little bit. But the important thing is getting it done, so we're going to South Florida on Tuesday and go out and give it everything we got." 
For general manager Jim Hendry, it was Piniella's lead­ership that kept the Cubs from getting into an even big­ger hole. 
"I thought Lou did a good job of weathering the storm and keeping everybody together," Hendry said. "Lou didn't panic. It's not easy to play when you're 8 or 9 games down. We were not far from being in a serious situa­tion we couldn't have gotten out of." 
Now they're not far from the playoffs. The Cubs have only been to the postseason four times since their last World Series appearance in 1945. They haven't won the World Series since 1908. 
"We knew when we r.amn out of spring training that had the makings of a playoff­caliber team," DeRosa said. "We didn't get off on the right foot the way we would have liked to, but we found a hot streak at the right time and we're getting it done." 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 25, 2007 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Pangborn throws 70-yard TD on first play in win 
Failed extra point leaves Badin just short of BP, Welsh Fam offense overwhelms Lewis with four touchdowns 
linebacker Lizzie Brown and
By KEVIN HENRY, ANTHO­one by senior defensive backNY CONKLIN, GRIFFIN DAS­
Kim llalpin), the game came
SATTI, ERIC PRISTER and down to a failed extra point
PATRICK STYNES a touch­
attempt following
Sports Writers 
down. Holt's ~ave eredit to the Pangborn 16, Lyons 0 Chaos defnnse for a good 
l'an~born wasted littln tiriw ~arne. 
in scorin~ durin~ tlwir shutout "Cavanaugh's defense was 
win Sunday over Lyons. really good, and we're getting 
Phoxns sophomore quarter­better ion offense]," Holl's said. 
back (;abby Tate conrwcted "It's just makin~ those big 
with sophomore widn rncniver plays and finishing our 
Me~han Bnsdwr for a 70-yard chances, which we're improv­
toudHiown on tlw first play of in~ at. .... We'll get a couple 
tho ~anw. The Pangborn ~ood plays, we just have to 
dnfnnsn, however, was pivotal strin~ them together." 
in tho l'hoxns' victory. While the Finest keep their 
"We've bonn really workin~ undnfeated season intact, 
hard in practice on our Sunday's contest was the sec­
dnfnnsn, and it rnally shownd ond loss for the Chaos. In both 
up today." Pan~born coach of its defeats, Cavanau~h 
Matt Mattin~ly said. allowed a touchdown on the 
Bnsclwr said the dnfnnso's opening drive and then man­
solid play allowPd lwr offnnsn a~ed to hold its opponents 
to OJHHI Up. seorPiess. 
"Our rlt•I'Pnsn n~ally ~avn our Senior captain Tarah Brorn 
ofTnnsn mornPnturn and ~ave said that after losin~ to Walsh 
o u r y o u n ~ r n nli vP r s last Sunday, her loam felt it a lot morn con-had fixed its few fidnncP in holes. t h-n rn s n Iv ~~ s . " "We've been really "It's frustrat­Bnsdwr said. ing," Brom said.
practicing on our
Tlw play of "After the first the stin~y defense. and it really ~ame we worked 
dnfnnsivP unit showed up today. " on the thin~s was hi~hlightnd that we needed by a snrond-to work on, and
Matt Mattingly
half l'orn~d this garnn went safety by Pangborn coach tho exact same l'hoxns junior way." /\shiny llardy. Brorn added 
Thorn worn five total inter­that tlw rest of the season will 
ceptions thrown by thn two definitely test the Chaos' col­
teams, ineludin~ the garnn­lective mettlfl. 
clinehnr that nndnd up in thn "I think we definitely have 
hands or l'an~born sophomorn more pressure to win our 
Kaitlin Furrey to run out tho ~ames now because we obvi­
~arne. ously want to make it to the 
Besdwr scored another playoffs, so we can't afford to rnenivin~ touchdown af'tnr lwr lose a~ain," Brorn said. "/\nd garnn-opnnin~ pass to pownr our team has a phenomnnal tho l'hoxes ovPr tho Lions. defm1se. so it's ~oing to be up
"s lw.s a h u ~ (' part 0 f 0 u r to the offense to make stuff 
o ITn n s n. " Mat tin~ I y said . happen." "Somntimns she seems to Farley's win gives it a 1-0-1 r.ar-ry Uw tmun by lwrself." rncord after tying McGlinn last 
week. 
Breen-Phllllps 7, Badin 6 
The ddPnsivn units knpt t.hn Welsh Family 26, Lewis 13 garnn close bP!'orn Breen­Welsh Family continued its l'hillips nkPd out a virtory over o!Tensivc dominance in its 26­Badin that nunn down to an 13 win over Lewis. extra-point ronvl'rsion. Led by junior quarterback 
The Balws lone touchdown .lenni Gargula. the Whirlwinds rarnn on a pass by junior o!Tense scored four touch­quarterback Melissa Mna~lwr. downs in the victory. Welsh 
Badin held BrnPn-l'hillips Family started out the game scoreless for tho rest of the with three solid drives. each game and seornd its only capped o!T with a touchdown touchdown on an interception pass from Gar~ula, including return. But tlw Bullfrogs were one to senior captain and unable to convnrt the extra receivnr Kelly Bushnlle. point and carne up just short "We knew coming into the of completing thn comeback. season that the upperclassmen 
had a lot of potential," Farley 7, Cavanaugh 6 Whirlwinds assistant coach 
In a tough dPfensivn battle Mark Mihallo said. "With the Farley just squeezed by leadership from Jenni and Cavanau~h Sunday. Kelly, we knew (the offense) 
Farley junior wide receiver would dick right away." and captain Jenny Holfs was Gargula completed 10 of 11 on the reccivin~ end of one of passes in the first half for the the squad's fnw big plays, Whirlwinds. On the other side scorin~ on a pass from senior of tlw ball, the Welsh Family quartnrbaek Brittany Baron on defense looked stellar in the the opnning drive. Sophomore lirst half. It did not give up a <~ornerbaek Caity Shepherd's first down in any of Lewis' interception also gave Farley's first three possessions and dnfensn a spark to ~et the win. intercepted a pass durin~ the 
Cavanau~h's touchdown Chieks' fourth drive. canw midway through the first "In the 11rst three halves of half on a pass from junior football so far this year, our quarterback Katie Dunn to offense has looked somewhat senior wide ree1dver Elisa anemic," Lewis assistant coach Suarez. But despite thr(W Perry Shoemaker said. "We've intcrcPptions by the Chaos had bright flashes but we defense (two by senior middle haven't been able to put any­

thing together." cruising to its third victory of 
The Chicks finally put the season with a shutout vie­together a scoring drive in tory over McGlinn. their first possession of the Wild Women senior quarter­second half with a long touch­bark Mary Sullivan connected down pass from quarterback with sophomore receiver Katherine Sierra Smith, Guarnieri. The freshman Chicks then "In the first three receiver 
made the con­halves offootball this Megh an !Iadley 
version attempt, and s1~nior
year, our offense has
and looked as receiver Marie though they looked somehwat Brenner to might be able to anemic." drive down the chip away at the field twice early Whirlwinds' in the ~ame to
Perry Shoemaker 
lead. jump out to an But after two Lewis assistant coach early lead that dropped passes would not dis­durin~ Welsh appear. Family's next possession, Sullivan hit lladley on a Gar~ula took things into her quick slant, who tlwn turned it own hands. She completed two up the field and outran passes and ran four times, defenders for the first scorn. including a short touehdown On the ensuing possession, run that gave the Whirlwinds the McGlinn offense looked out a 26-7 lead. of sync. Thn pressure of the "!\ quarterback with experi­Walsh defense, lead by junior enen is very erucial in this Elizabeth Berger, proved to be lea~ue," Mihallo said. "Jenni's too much fi1r Shamrocks junior been here for three years, and quarterback Sarah de Groot. she's an excellent quarter­"It was a great gamn. /\11 the back. She can make all the players, both the seniors and tough throws." thn younger players are really /\s Welsh Family looks to meshing together," Walsh continue its dominance coach J.J. Heese said. "/\11 the Thursday against Pasquerilla eoaches know what thry're West, Lewis hopes to bounce doin~. and the playnrs are baek when it takes on Badin. executing well." "We've got a lot to prove out The Walsh defense looked there," Shoemaker said. "If we stout throu~hout the contest. can replicate what we did here Allowing a paltry 43 points a in the second half, I think game, thn swarmin~ linn­we've ~ot a ehanee." backer corps and the quirk defensive line has caused trou-Walsh 20, McGlinn 0 . ble for every offense they have Walsh proved that it is a faeed. What has bonn most force to be reckoned with, impressive about this defen­
sive unit, however, has been their ability to step up in big spots. 
The Shamrocks threatened in the sneond half as dn Groot completed a bomb to Kathleen Stanley, but the dnl'ense held up and foreed McGlinn to turn it over on downs. · Later in the game, when Shamrocks senior captain Taryn Lewis intercepted Sullivan's pass, thn Wild Women defense once again forced a turnover on downs to seal the ~arne. 
McGlinn, however, did sen some bright spots. After ini­tially havin~ trouble in the first half establishin~ a run­nin~ game or developing any momentum on offense, de Groot and sophomorn running back Tina Noranha found some rnovmrwnl up!ield in the second half. 
''I'm really nxeitnd about our team, espneially tlw defense who played very wnll. /\sidn from the two or throe big plays, we worn ri~ht with Walsh," Shamrocks eoach Jpff Paramore said. "/\ couple dif­ferent things ~o our way, sonw of the incomplete passes are cau~ht or on targnt, and it's a different ball~anw." 
Walsh facns lloward today and MeGiinn plays today a~ainsl Cavanaugh. 
Contact Kevin Henry at Khenry 1 @nd.edu, Anthony Conklin at aconklin@nd.edu, Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu, Eric Prister eprister@nd.edu and Patrick Stynes at pstynes@nd.edu 


~-~~~~---~~~~~~~~~ 

Tuesday, September 25, 2007 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 

ZahiD 
continued from page 24 
more Jon Sarna was hurried all day, and several of his 12 pass attempts were highly contested or broken up at the line. He completed five passes for 34 yards, but his two interceptions were costly. Vermin senior tail­back Mike Valluzo was effec­tive, gaining 29 yards on six carries, but his impact was lim­ited because the Vermin were playing from behind. 
Senior lineman Ben Gern recorded a sack for a Carroll defense that, for the most part, held strong. Freshman Kris Kast blocked a punt late in the fourth quarter, but Zahm had pulled too far ahead for the Vermin to mount a comeback. 
"Our performance was really impressive, especially consider­ing all the freshmen we had," Wieland said. "We just stuck to some basic plays, and hey -if it ain't broke, don't fix it." 
St. Ed's 12, Sorin 7 
St. Ed's broke a three-year winless streak by defeating Sorin on Sunday. 
The euphoria on the St. Ed's sideline was palpable as a team that hadn't scored a point in years got a taste of victory. 
St. Ed's coach Cameron Hogue set the tone on offense early by calling a flea flicker on the first play from scrimmage. 
"We've got to play to our strengths," Hogue said. 
But after making the catch, freshman wide receiver Dan Crisman fumbled the ball, giv­ing Sorin its first opportunity. 
After a messy Otters drive ended in a blocked punt, Crisman took advantage of a chance at redemption. Freshman quarterback Matt Abeling connected with Crisman for a deep touchdown. 
"It was the perfect play for our first touchdown in years," 
Crisman said. St. Ed's failed on the two­point conversion attempt. 
St. Ed's and the Otters then traded punts to reach halftime with St. Ed's leading 6-0. 
A fumble by Sorin in the sec­ond half put St. Ed's in good field position. On the first play of the possession, Abeling's pass was tipped by the Sorin corner right into the hands of Crisman, who then scampered in for the St. Ed's touchdown. 
"It was a little inside, but it bounced up for the taking, and I just grabbed it and ran it in," Crisman said. 
Another failed two-point con­version kept the score at 12-0. 
On the following possession, the Otters finally came to life. Sparked by several key passes by sophomore quarterback Casey McGushin and the strong running of senior captain Ryan Bove, the Otters drove the ball downfield. 
Bove punched the ball into the end zone for the touchdown and the Otters converted the extra point. 
Sorin forced a three-and-out to get the ball back, but there was not enough time left to overtake St. Ed's. 
McGushin converted on a quarterback keeper on fourth down to keep the drive alive, but a sack and a false start penalty sealed Sorin's fate. 
Bove said the loss was a result of errors on both sides of the ball. 
"They were mentally ready, and we were not," Boye said. "Penalties and that fumble killed us." 
The Otters hope to raise the quality of play this coming week in practice. "We want to try and find a team to scrimmage this week, so we can work on our snap counts and pick up the intensity," Bove said. 
The St. Ed's team credited its success to a strategy of "aerial misdirection," senior captain Ge Wang said. 
Morrissey 20, Alumni 0 
It didn't take long for Morrissey playmaker Carl Anderson to take over the game against Alumni Sunday. 
On the Manorites' second drive, junior quarterback Joe McBrayer connected with Anderson down the sideline for a 60-yard touchdown pass, part of an inspiring passing perform­ance by McBrayer that sparked a blowout win over the Dawgs. 
Despite the score, Alumni captain Bret Shapot said his team was not completely over­matched. 
"They were a good team," Shapot said. "They had three long passes, but other than that, as far as I'm concerned it was a tie game." 
And Anderson's impact was not limited to the offensive side of the ball. On Alumni's third possession, Anderson broke up a fourth-down pass from the safety position to regain the possession for the Manorites in their own territory. 
Two plays later, McBrayer once again found an open Anderson running down the sideline for another 60-yard touchdown pass that put the defending champions in firm control of the game. 
When they came out for the second half, the Manorites dis­played the balance that led them to the championship a season ago. Senior captain Nick Bencomo led a powerful run­ning attack behind a skilled offensive line that guided Morrissey down the field on the opening drive of the half. Ultimately, the Alumni defense stalled the drive by forcing a turnover on downs. 
On Alumni's first possession after the break, Morrissey safe­ty Mike Fletcher came down with an interception to give the Manorites field position in Alumni territory. 
McBrayer took advantage of the short field and completed his third touchdown pass of the 

University of Notre Dame's Study Abroad Program in 
Angers, France 
"Should I stay or should I go?" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Angers' Program Coordinator and returnees of the program 
Tuesday, September 25, 2007 5:30PM 125 DeBartolo Classroom Building 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2007 Academic Year 2008-2009 Fall 2008 Spring 2009 Applications available: www.nd.edu/~ois/ 

game, this time to junior receiver Warren Scott. 
After the score, both defenses took over and the scoring came to a halt. 
In the last two minutes of the game, Alumni put together its best drive of the game and marched inside the Morrissey's five-yard line. Determined to preserve the shutout, Morrissey's stingy defense, led by defensive lineman Mike Kaiser and sophomore middle linebacker Phil Yuhas, made a stand. The team kept Alumni out of the end zone as time ran out to end the game. 
"I thought we played hard, our quarterback made some good throws and our receivers made some good catches," jun­ior Cole Davis said. "Our defense was solid as usual." 
Next week, the Manorites will face Keenan and the Dawgs will have the week off. 
Keenan 12, Keough 0 
The Keenan Knights defeated Keough in an intense game that was dominated by the run. After Keenan junior running back Alex Gonzalez asserted himself early, Knights wide receiver Jon Wood caught a pass from sophomore quarter­back Chris Bathon that eventu­ally led the Knights to the first touchdown of the game. 
Keough gained momentum on the ensuing punt return, but a Keenan interception with 38 seconds left in the first half dashed the Kangaroos' hopes of scoring. 
After halftime, both teams came out firing. Wood scored another touchdown in the third quarter for Keenan and Keough offense started to show signs of life. 
But the Keenan defense kept the Kangaroos out of the end zone. 
"We have a great potential for a running offense, we just need to work on basics and foot­work," Keough senior defensive end and tackle John Kadous said. 
Kangaroos junior captain Tom O'Donnell hopes his team will play more physically next week. 
"This just gives us more moti­vation for next week, [we need] just need to get bigger and nas­tier," 0' Donnell said. 
The Knights, meanwhile, were glad to start the year on a positive note. 
"Our whole team played great. defense and offense were really good," coach Matt Gibson said. 
Gibson said he is trying not to think of the postseason yet, but he was confident after the tri­umph. "Today we started the revolution," Gibson said. "Step one happened and it'll continue against Morrissey next week." 
Stanford 8, O'Neill 0 
Stanford avenged the loss that kept it from the championship game last year as the Griffins shut out O'Neill in a defensive battle Sunday. 
"It felt really good to beat such a good team so early in the season," Stanford senior run­ning back Tregg Duerson said. 
O'Neill's first drive of the game ended with an intercep­tion by Stanford junior safety Dave Costanzo, a former Notre Dame varsity player. Stanford then went three-and-out in a drive that epitomized the offen­sive patterns of both teams throughout the majority of the game. 
O'Neill junior receiver Nate Forte led his offense with a pair of receptions. The first catch converted a fourth down during the second quarter. At the beginning of the fourth quarter, he caught a 23-yard pass from senior quarterback Chris Stroh. 
But the Stanford defense made some clutch plays and stopped the Mob when it mat­tered. Griffins sophomore defensive tackle Bob Huguelet ended the first half with a sack, and the remainder of O'Neill's drives resulted in punts. 
Finally, in the fourth quarter, Stanford put some points on the board. In contrast with their stale offense of the first three quarters, the Griffins only need­ed three plays to get from their own 46-yard line to the end zone. 
Griffins junior quarterback Brian Salvi completed two pass­es on the drive, first to fresh­man Kevin Ritt for 16 yards then to Costanzo for 36 yards. The two completions gave Stanford a first-and-goal on the two-yard line, setting up a two­yard run by Duerson for the touchdown. 
Forte blocked the Griffins' extra point attempt, but a penalty on O'Neill gave Stanford another opportunity to convert from inside the 3-yard line. This time, they converted for two points as Duerson reached the end zone for a second time to make the score 8-0 Stanford. 
The Mob had one last chance to tie the game, but came up short after failing to convert on a fourth down play. 
Siegfried 21, Knott 0 
Siegfried tight end Kevin Kelly caught two touchdowns as Ramblers shut out Mod Quad rival Knott. 
The game started slowly, with neither team advancing past the other's 35-yard line in the first quarter. 
Early in the contest, both teams played conservative foot­ball and called mostly running plays. It wasn't until late in the second quarter that Siegfried was able to put the first points on the scoreboard. After Ramblers freshman fullback Dan Scime converted on a key fourth-and-two play in Knott territory, Kelly came up with his first touchdown catch of the game on a pass from junior quarterback Max Young after it was tipped by the Knott defense. Kelly's score gave Siegfried a 7-0 lead going into the half. 
In the second half, Siegfried switched quarterbacks as fresh­man signal-caller Max Garcia replaced Young. After a long run from junior running back Marcus Young, Garcia was able to sneak into the end zone for Siegfried's second score. The play gave the Ramblers a 14-0 lead going into the final quarter of play. 
But Knott did not back down late, as the squad continued to give the Ramblers all they could handle. After a long run that brought the Juggerknotts deep into Siegfried territory for the first time in the game, the Ramblers were able to stifle the Knott offense and force a turnover on downs. 
After the turnover, Garcia hit Kelly on a long touchdown pass, his second of the day. On the ensuing Knott possession, Siegfried was able to force a fumble that allowed the Ramblers to run down the clock and cruise to victory, their first of the season and second straight over Knott. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgam­ber@nd.edu, Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu, Alex Barker at abarker 1 @nd.edu, Meghan McMahon at mmcmaho@nd.edu, Matt Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu and Eugenia Alfonzo at ealfonzo@nd.edu 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 25, 2007 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Walsh looks to remain hot 
By KEVIN HENRY, LAURA MEYERS and JOHN WHITTY Sports Writers 

Walsh vs. Howard 
Undel'natnd Walsh looks to continue its dominance against Howard today, snver­al days af'tnr it made a pow­erful statemnnt Sunday, rolling over Me<;Jinn 20-0. 
The Wild Women hope to do tho sarnn against the Ducks. 
"We'rn hoping the momen­tum ol' thn past three gamns will carry on," Walsh senior captain Marie Brenner said. "Wn'rn vnry encouragnd by thn way wn 'vn been playing." 
Senior quartPrback Mary Sullivan, sophomore rnceiver Sierra Smith and junior defensive back Mary Campbnll are largely respon­sible l'or Walsh's 3-0 start. But Brnnnnr explained that the tnam 's first-hall' success is truly a team el'l'ort. 
"The ol'l'ense and defense 

a r n a c o h n s i v ~~ u n i t , " 
Brnnrwr said. "The intensity ol' the del'nns1~ takes some prnssurn ofT ol' the offense." 
Howard's young offensive unit is led by freshman quar­terback Kayla Bishop, fresh­man reeniver Leslie Allen and sophomorn rnceiver Mary .Jnnkins. The Ducks could pose a challenge to thn Wild Women defense. In a 13-7 win over McGlinn on Snpt. 16, Bishop threw for two touchdowns. 
The Ducks have one tie but are also looking to stay undefnated. The two teams will meet tonight at 8 p.m. at Hinhle finlds. 
McGlinn vs. Cavanaugh 
McGlinn looks to got its snason hack on track tonight against Cavanaugh. Thn win­loss Shamrocks face ofT against the Chaos on Hiehle Field at 7 p.m. 
"This game against Cavanaugh is a must win for us," Shamrocks senior cap­tain Taryn Lewis said. "But orH:n Wfl start scoring points, wn're really going to be a force to he reckoned with." 
Lewis expects freshman Kathlnen Stanley, who com­petes on both sides of the ball as a safety and wide receiver for the Shamrocks, to play a prominent role in tlw game. 
"Wn're hoping !Stanleyl makes some big plays tomor­row," Lnwis said. "She brings tlw noise, literally." 
On the other sideline. the Chaos look to salvage what's loft of a tough season. With Sunday's 7-6 loss to Farley, Cavanaugh dropped to 0-3 on thn season and hope to knoek off McGlinn for their first win of the season. The Chaos have yet to capitalize on thnir limited opportuni­ties and have lost by one point in each of the last two 
weeks. 
Farley vs. Pasquerilla East 
Pasquerilla East coach Matt Gibson made a strong statement about tonight's matchup between the Pyros and Farley at Hieh le West Field. 
"Not only am I eon f"ident going into this game, I guar­antee the victory tomorrow versus Farley," Gibson said. 
Gibson feels that the team is playing well after tying its last game against Howard. Today, the team will have to contend with the Finest and their tough defense. Farley won its last game, a 7-6 tri-· umph over Cavanaugh Sunday. 
Farley moved to 1-0-1 with the victory over the Chaos. Junior receiver Jenny Holf's and sophomore defensive back Caity Shepherd will be the key players for the Finest. 
Pasquerilla East's speed has been its strength and the team hopes it will be a factor once again against the Finest. But Pasquerilla East's lack of size has hurt them and the Chaos will look to play a physical game. 
The game begins at 9 p.m. 
Contact Kevin Henry at khenryl@nd.edu, Laura Meyers at lmeyers2@nd.edu and John Witty at jwhitty2@gmail.com 

SMC SOCCER 
Belles prepare to face Albion vvithout Hinton 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
The Belles head into their sec­ond conference game at 4 p.m today against Albion, a team thoy lost to twice last season during regular snason play. 
A year ago, the Britons fmishnd third place in the MIM and Saint Mary's was third. This season, Saint Mary's holds an overall record of 5-1-2, while Albion stands at 7-1-1. Each squad has a conferenee record of 1-0 and will look to remain undefeated in h~ague play. 
"It should be a grnat match," Belles coach Caryn MacKenzie said. 'They have a lot of talent, and we're looking forward to playing them." 
But the Belles will be foreed to play without their hmding scornr, injured junior forward Lauren Hinton. 
"I have a lot of confidence in our team, and I am feeling good about our ehanees even minus [1-Iintonl," MacKenzie said. "But we're going to put our game face on and try to get a win out on our home field." 
The Belh'ls are coming ofl" of a victory against Kalamazoo last Saturday, which they won in the last 13 minutes of play with back­to-hack goals by sophomore defender Bridget Honayne and senior midlielder Justine Higgins. Ronayne and Higgins were named MIAA players of the week in the defensive and offensive divisions, rnspectivnly. 
The Belles dropped both of their matches to Albion last sea­son and face a tough task again this year. 
Hinton won't boon the field due to a rollnd ankle she sustained in Saturday's game, in addition to previous injuries from earlier in thl'l season. Bnlles sophomonl li>r­ward Micki Hedinger, who has been struggling with a hip injury, will also miss today's eontnst. 
"We have some versatile talent, which you have to do with injury," MacKenzie said. "Justinn !Higgins} worked up top rnal well, Amy Mahoney baek in thfl goal for us has bmm stellar, ami wn've had a gn~at start to our season. We're just going to have to rnspond and do the best we can." 
Saint Mary's has alnmdy shown some flexibility this season, shift­ing defenders in ell"orts to keep tho ball moving li>rward. 
"We have a compiPtnly dillimmt chemistry and approach on the team this year; we'rn definitely a cohesive team," MacKenzie said. "They definitely have bonn fun to coach and to watch them play." 
The Belles will look to score early and improve communica­tion among the defense -two tactics they did not utilize against Kalamazoo. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Uganda Information Session ~~ Interested in Africa? Interested in challenges and Moroto* issues of developing nations? •\\ Interested in Holy Cross work inbale* Fort.Jlortal East Africa? ~ Kampal .~ E () n Don't miss this study abroad Mbarar~ opportunity through the School for International Training (SIT)! Information Session: Semester and Summer Options. Wednesday, September 26, 2007 Room 215 DeBartolo 5:30 PM APPLICATION DEADLINE FOR ALL PROGRAMS IS NOVEMBER 15, 2007  

Tuesday, September 25, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Grossn1an' s struggles 
A bit ofIreland in 
tnay cost QB his job 
your own backyard. 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. -Rex Grossman still had his health when he walked off the field. But he may not have his start­ing job much longer after his latest meltdown. 
Grossman threw three inter­ceptions as the Chicago Bears fell to the Dallas Cowboys 34­10 on Sunday night, and he did not get a vote of confi­dence from his coach a day later. Now, the question is: Will he start this week at Detroit? 
"Will Rex Grossman start Sunday?" coach Lovie Smith asked on Monday, repeating the question. "Well, our evalu­ation process is going on right now, and if you come out to practice Wednesday, you'll have a better idea of who will be starting at all positions." 
Has Smith made a decision? ''I'm always thinking ahead," he said. 
Smith gave his usual answer when asked Sunday night about Grossman -"Rex Grossman is our quarterback" -but his tone was different on Monday, fueling speculation Brian Griese might start Sunday against Detroit. 
Grossman's supporters would have a hard time argu­ing against the move, consid­ering he ranks 23rd in the league with 500 yards, has a 
45.2 rating and is 47-of-89 
(52.8 percent) with a league­leading six interceptions and just one touchdown. 
But is Griese the answer? 
A Pro Bowl pick with Denver in 2000, he has passed for 16,564 yards, but has also been released three times ­by the Broncos, Miami and Tampa Bay. 
"I have confidence in our entire football team," Smith said. "Brian is a part of that. After you have a loss like that, we all feel bad. We should." 
And Smith realizes some­thing needs to change ­quickly. 
At 1-2, the Bears are cer­tainly not living up to those soaring expectations after last season's Super Bowl appear­ance. Besides Grossman's struggles, injuries are mount­ing. 
They lost former Pro Bowl safety Mike Brown and start­ing nose tackle Dusty Dvoracek to season-ending knee injuries in the opener at San Diego. And on Sunday, Bears were falling like domi­noes. 
As for the evaluation at· quarterback, Grossman's trou­bles are well-documented and they explain why the Bears let him enter this season with an expiring contract rather than an extension. 

' s 

Just secondsfrom campus. With its many choice beverages, heartyfood and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(Waterford Estates Lodge has hotel roomsat reasonableratesfUr upcomi~NDfootball weekends.) 

Want to improve your Spanish or Portuguese? Come to an Information Meeting with program returnees to hear about. .. 

Brazil 

Mexico Chile Spain 
Tuesday,Sept.25,2007 s:oo pm 102 DeBartolo Hall 



APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15, 2007 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 25, 2007 
Yoshinaga 
continued from page 24 
lost wlwn Yoshinaga went down, they might have gained something too -a new team leader. 
Arter realizing his playing time was over for the rest of the season, Yoshinaga set 
out to con­"/just want to bench gives tribute in contribute as much as you a differ­other ways off ent perspec­
I can." 
the field. Last tive on .January, he things,"
Alex Yoshinaga
attended a Yoshinaga leadership Irish senior captain said. "After I 
bneomo more of a leader, and he's proved it this year. Now, he's more involved." 
Yoshinaga also recognizes that the experience affeeted him in how he approaches the game both on and off the field. 
"I had had up until then 
adequate playing time every year, and going from that to watch­ing on the 
eonference set up by the Notre Dame athletic dnpartmenl for sen­ior athletes. There, he received a book on how to become a leader. Throughout the spring semester, Yoshinaga went about reading one chapter a week with Clark, and the results were clear. 
"lie began to think about how he could become a leader, and all the lessons were put forward in the book," Clark said. "lie start­ed to put them into 
came back, I didn't take it for granted, 
but, and this sounds kind of cheesy, I gave it my all every time. I think it was a bless­ing in disguise." 
Although Yoshinaga and his teammates admit that he benefited greatly from his time on the sideline, all are glad that the senior mid­fielder is roaming the center of the pitch for the Irish once again. 
Since his return, 
Yoshinaga has wasted little time in making his presence 
practice with felt once again.
"fie's become an
the team. and In Notre Dame's 
he's become excellent leader." first game of an exeellent the season leader." against then­
Bobby Clark 
Yoshinaga No. 1 UCLA, he
Irish coach on Alex
immediately scored the
Yoshinaga
began to dis­game-winning 
play his new­found leader­ship skills, leading pre­game rituals to help the team focus on tasks ah11ad. lie also supportP.d team­mates who weren't getting their desired playing time. And the other Irish players took notice, voting Yoshinaga one of this year's team eo-captains along with senior defender Ryan Miller and junior defender Matt Besler. 
"As a leader, he's grown a lot," Martin said. "IIim get­ting injured forced him to 
golden goal in 
addition to assisting on the team's first goal of the game. 
And despite that perform­ance, he is still motivated by last year's injury. 
"To tell you the truth I haven't contributed as much as I should have these past couple of years, and last year I didn't contribute at all," Yoshinaga said. "I just want to contribute as much as I can." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
Calvin 
continued from page 24 
run a quick offense, and we won't be able to count on getting many unearned points." 
Another of Calvin's veterans is senior middle hitter Molly Krikke, who received honorable mention for MIAA specialty player of the week honors. Krikke averages 
4.65 kills to go with more than one block per game. She holds the team lead for blocks with 51 total this season. 
Senior outside hitter Kristen Kalb is yet another veteran the 
JaiDboree 
continued from page 24 
tage," Coach Mark Hamilton said. 
Leading the Belles is lone sen­ior Katie O'Brien, the average individual strokes leader in the MIAA with an average of 81.1. O'Brien also owns the two best individual rounds of play this year in the conference, at 7 4 and 
CLUB SPORTS 
Special to The Observer 
Rugby 
Notre Dame opened Chicago Area Hughy Football Union (CAHFU) play this weekend with a pair of one­sided victories over the University of Illinois-Chicago and Northern Illinois. ln the opener, the Notre Dame A side defeated UIC 33-0 behind a balanced scoring attack. Senior Chris Brown scored two tries, while grad­uate student Don Greiwe and seniors Chris Harrington and Luis Melendez each had one Belles hope to contain. Kalb leads the team in total kills with 202 and averages 4.70 kills per game. She leads the team with nine services aces and contributes over four digs per game. She is a threat not only on defense but also on the attacking side. 

The Belles (6-7, 3-3 MIAJ\) will look to disrupt the rhythm that has allowed the Knights to remain undefeated. 
"We will need to do what we can to keep them off balance and pull them out of their game," Schroeder-Biek said. 
In order to keep the Knights off-kilter, the Belles must be in top form, but they do not plan to 
76 respectively. 
Behind her are Saint Mary's juniors Meredith Fantom and Perri Hamrna, with respective scoring averages of 89.2 and 90.2. 
The rest of the team consists of relatively inexperienced players, including freshman Emily Gore, whose 87.1 scoring average is the second-best on the team. 
"We are starting five freshmen this year, and we really need them to step up," Hamilton said. 
try. The final six points came on two field goals by Greiwe. 
In the second contest against UIC, The NDHFC B side defeated the UIC B side, 34-0. Freshman Pat Griffin led all scorers with three tries, while single tries were p o s t"e d by Mi k e J o h n so n , Patrick O'Toole, and John Lied!. Freshman Sean Mitchell converted both of his conversion attempts to account for the remaining four points. 
The Irish crushed Northern Illinois 38-0 in the finale. Andrew Mullen, sophomore 
make drastic changes. 
"We will be preparing for Calvin just like any other oppo­nent," Schroeder-Biok said. "We need to tighten up our game ­take care of doing things right from our end -and remember that it takes work to achieve our goals." 
The Belles are 3-0 in confer­ence play at home and hope they can keep the streak alive. 
"We enjoy playing at home, so it never hurts to compete in sur­roundings that are familiar," Schroeder-Biek said. 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleona@saintmarys.edu 
'This could really be a coming of age for them," If it is, the Belles could be look­ing at a return to MIM glory. 
"Up until last year we had won four straight, but now we are starting over again," Saint Mary's Sports Information Director Stephen Hinkle said. "We have a young team with a lot of depth." 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
Bob lluguelet, Mitchell, llarrington, Melendez, and senior Stephen Barbera each scored a try. Greiwe was three of four on conversions and Mitchell one of two to complete the scoring. 
The first two Irish CAHFU league matehes this season represent the first official matches played by the club on campus in more than 12 years. The A side sports a 3­1-1 record while the B side's victory came in its first match of the year. The club will travel to Northwestern next week. 


CENTER-~ SPIRITUA.IJTY SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Education ofthe Mind and Heart 
Saint Mary's College and Doxology Why? How? Where? When? 
Thursday, Scptetnber 2 7 4:00P.M. 
Stapleton Lounge Le Mans Hall 

. John Haughey, S.J., S.T.D. 
Senior Fellow . Woodstock ·rheologial Center Georgetown University \Vashington, DC 
Free and open to the public. 

KAUST Discovery Scholarship 
Full scholarships for science and technology students 
The King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST), a 21st century graduate-level, research university, is offering scholarships for future leaders in science, engineering, and technology. 
The benefits of the KAUST Discovery Scholarship include: 
• 
Full tuition at current institution 

• 
Living stipend, book and computer allowance 

• 
Upon graduation, admission and full scholarship for the KAUST master's degree program at the University's Red Sea campus 


The KAUST campus opens in September 2009. Highly talented 
students with one to three years remaining in first university degree 
programs can apply now. 
Visit www.kaust.edu.sa/discovery, or email scholarships@kaust.edu.sa . 

CONTACT: 
KAUST Scholarships c/o liE 520 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 740 Houston, TX 77027 Phone: 713.621.6300 x23 
Tuesday, September 25, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 :... 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 

DEUCES MANOR 
Hey, have you ever 
noticed Charlie Weis 
drinks out of his own 
TASTES LIKE fAILURE 
Powlus! Why do I keep you on my staff if you can't even make a good batch 
! 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 


CROSSWORD 
Across 27 Doofus David or Victoria 29 Cheri Beckham, e.g. 30 Parrot 5 Bit of 
31 Tablet 
surveillance 32 Part of U.S.P.S. 
evidence 33 CD players9 Muffin ingredient 36 Stanley's love in

13 When doubled, an old sitcom 
"A Streetcar goodbye Named Desire" 14 Film format for 38 Shown the door domed theaters 
40 Suffix with priest 15 Vibes 
41 Craggy 17 Derive (from) 
mountain ridges 18 Doofus 
45 Computer 

20 flour 
command 22 Sun. morning 
46 Runaway bride 
lecture 

or gr0om 23 Novel on which 
47 Eyeliner problem 
"Clueless" is 48 Doofus 
based 51 Overweight plus 24 English 521n awe

philosopher who wrote "Wherever 
53 Airport stat. Law ends, 54 Priestly Tyranny begins" vestment 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
55 Doofus 
58 Catch sight of 
62 RCA competitors 
63 Wry Bombeck 64 AT&T's stylized globe, e.g. 
65 Crave 
66 Former Russian royalty 67 Pig and poi feast 
Down 
and outs 2 Calico, e.g. 3 Sole 4 Doofus 5 ltsy-bitsy 6 Pierre's pal 7 Pretty violets 8 Sound bite, e.g. 9 "Pow!" 
10 Media executive Murdoch 11 Scent 12 Mama Judd 16 Stretch of time 19 Difficult experiences 21 Opposite of 'neath 24 Expire 25 Cuts out 26 Nat and Natalie 27 Sis's sib 28 lt's·bound with twine 32 Many an ex-con 33 Recipient 34 Traitor 
WILLSHORTZ 

37 land 39 Doofus  48 QB Marino and others  drug 57 Doc's org. 59 Pittance  
42 Nickname  49 "Shall  ?"  60 Organizer of one  
43 Chicken  ("Want me to  of four Grand  
44 Work unit 46 Eastertime  continue?") 50 Nary a soul  Slam events: Abbr. 61 A person who is  
product  54 Hebrew month  not a doofus  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 



suggested by the above cartoon. 

A: 
ITriiJ"rixrxxxrJ" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: YODEL FILMY JUSTLY SNAPPY Answer: How the hunter stalked his prey when he lost his rifle scope -"AIMLESSLY" 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITmS BORN ON TillS DAY: Kyle Sullivan, 19; Spencer Treat Clark, 20; Erin Chambers, 28; Nia Vardalos, 45 
Happy Birthday: You've got a lot on your plate. Travel and learning should play an important role in your plans this year whether for business or pleasure. Allow yourself the luxury of taking part in things that will help you advance in any or all aspects of your life. Your numbers are 2, 6, 13, 26, 29, 37 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): An opportunity to make or come into money is present. Don't shy away from a deal because it sounds too good to be true. Do your research quickly and take advantage. Your love life is picking up. 3 stars TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You can clear up a lot of misunderstandings and take care of personal business today. Your serious attitude and the clarity you show will lead an organization to which you belong to some ground-breaking re­sults. 4 stars GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Listen closely to what you are being told. Twist­ing words around or making things out to be less than what they are will lead to a mistake you don't want to make. Keep any form of overreacting, overindul­gence or overspending to a minimum. 2 stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may have to travel around a bit today if you want to get things done properly. You will have the extra stamina needed but don't gel angry or let anyone take things out on you if you want to finish what you start. 3 stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll be in a generous mood and that can leave you cash poor if you aren't careful. Restrain your spending. If you have to spend, im­prove your surroundings or invest in something that will bring you a good return. 3 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Put everything you've got into earning a living and you will get positive results. Your energy level coupled with passion, drive and knowledge will pay off. Consider starting your own business. 3 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You've got what it takes to pull off anything you want to pursue. Getting involved in something that can lead to a better position or traveling for the purpose of closing a deal will pay off. An idea you have will fly. 5 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Work from home or get involved in making some changes to your personal situation. You can deal with family problems or older relatives who are stubborn but don't expect honesty. Read between the lines. 5 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): It will be difficult to get a clear picture of what's going on. Be careful not to make promises until you have all the informa­tion. Your quick-to-help attitude will get you into trouble. Travel isn't likely to be cheap or bring the results you are looking for. 2 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't listen to what's being said. Ifit has to do with money, health or a legal matter, rely on your own instincts. You can turn something you see as viable into something profitable. A change in direction or moving money .around will pay off. 4 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A contract can be put in place and a budget set up to pay for the goals you set for yourself. You can make a change but don't do so for emotional reasons. Think matters through and make a calculated move. 3 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll be sensitive and emotionally caught up in personal matters. Stay calm and avoid making a rash decision. Change can be good but only if you JD!tke it for the right reason. Now is not the time to be im­pulsive, to try to impress or to become angry. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are imaginative, original and intellectually intriguing. You know how to have fun but still get things done. You are quick, passionate, versa­tile and popular. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
JUMBLE 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
AFTEC 
± 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
[J [ I I 
tTOOSHE 
t
IJ I J 
www.jumble.com
tJUDATS t
IJ I J I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
On the house? 

WHAT HAPPE:N£:0 TO THE RUMOR OF F!<t:t: DRINKS? 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
·' 

..----------­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, September 25, 2007 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 
Follow the leader 

Yoshinaga returns from injury to become team captain 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Wrircr 
As tlw cross l'loatPd in. Irish tlwn-junior midf'ielder Alex Yoshinaga eyt~d a hnader and pt~rhaps his first goal of' thn young 20()() season. 
W h at lw d i d n ·t s n e was CrPighlon goalknPpnr Matt Allnn crashing from his blind sidn in a move that would lake Yoshinaga's f'eet out f'rom undnr him and scrHI him l'rashing down on his shoul­dnr. .Just two ganws into his junior snason. Yoshinaga's ynar was nnded by a broken collar bone. 
What did Notre Damn lose when Yoshinaga's injury nndnd his snason'! 
"Tremendous drive. energy and enthusiasm," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "Those are the things you think of when you think of' Yosh." 
"A big part of our team," senior f'orward Kurt Martin said of' his teammate. "lie was our central midlielder, so obviously wn had to makn some changes." 
The Irish lost all that -a player who started 42 games in his first two seasons in South Bend, racking up five goals, thrne assists and I] points. 
But despite all Notre DanH~ 
sec YOSHINAGA/Pagc 22 


SMC GoLF 
Golfers get set for Jan1boree 
By JARED JEDICK Sports Writer 
The Belles sit in second plaee in MIAA play as thoy travel to tlwir third and final Jambome ovont of the stmson today. 
Scoring seeond-plam finishes in both of' their provious Jamboroe events at Kalamazoo and Tri-State University, Saint Mary's hopns to put forth a strong showing and position themselvns for the final two rounds of' thn MIAA Championship Oct. 5 and 6. 
Although the B1dles also played at the Ferris State Invitational and the Illinois Wesleyan tournament, only the Jamborees and the Championship count toward the final MIAA standings. 
Alma is a first-time host of this Jamboree event, which will be played on Bucks Hun Golf Club in Mount Pleasant, Mieh. Alma is the only team to have ever seen the course. This uncertainty pro­vides an interesting array of challenges, and surprisingly, advantages to the Belles' squad. 
The lack of familiarity with the course for all the other teams gives Alma a distinct advantage, but the Bolles believe they have good shot. 
"The layout is very similar to our homo eoursn. llopefully this can be a little bit of an advan­
see JAMBOREE/Page 22 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Squad set to take on MIAAfoe 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD Spons Writer 
Saint Mary's will look to shut down Calvin's dominant oll'ense as tho Bolls play host to first­phu:n Calvin tonight. 
Calvin (I O-:{, 5-0 MIAAI not only brings a first-place record into town, but also tlw n~igning MIAA specialty player of tlw wonk, snnior setter Katie Zondervan. This is tl11~ snvtmth limn Zondl'rvan has n~cnivnd the rm:ognition. 
She has an average of 14.56 assists per a ganw and lnd the KnighL-; to two eonli•rnnce vieto­ries with 27 digs and fivn kills last wonk. 
Belles lwad coach Julie Sehrondnr-Biek said lwr team is rnady for a tough eontnst. 
"I oxpeel a great ehallnngn," Schrondnr-BiPk said. "It will be nxeiting. Calvin has somn very solid, veteran playnrs. They will 
see CALVIN/Page 22 
FooTBALL 
Reulandwithdraws from Notre Dame 
Observer Staff Report 
Ti~ht end Konrad Bnuland has withdrawn from Notre Dame, Irish head coach Charlie Weis announct~d in a statement Monday. 
"i\fter nweti n g 
w i t h 
Konrad Heuland 
o n Sunday. hn has dncided he will I o avo t h n Loam and withdraw from Notro Dame," Weis said in a statmnnnt. "I appreei­ato all Konrad has done for Notre Dame and I wish him nothing but the best." 
Houland, a sophomore from San Juan Capistrano, Calif'., saw action both this year and last year at tight end, but 

was third on the depth c h art be h i n d f'i l't h -y e a r senior John Carlson and fellow sophomore Will Yeatman for Notre Dame's 31-14 loss to Michigan Statn. lie did enter the game in multiple tight­ond sets, however. 
Heuland did not catch a pass in his Notre Dame career. 
Coming out of high school, Heuland was ratnd the No. 2 tight end in thn country by Scout.com. 
In order to play in 
2008, Heuland would 
have to transfer to a school that is less than twelve days into the fall semester. 
While Heuland has not indicated where he is plan­ning to go, one possibility is UCLA, who recruitnd him out of high school and fulfills Weis' requirement that transfers not go to schools on future Notre Dame sched­ules. 

MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Zahn1 takes down Carroll, St. Ed's vvins 
By MATT GAMBER, JARED 
JEDICK, EUGENIA 
ALFONZO, MIKE GOTIMER, 
MEGHAN MCMAHON and 
ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writers 
Zahm 12, Carroll 0 
II' the Zahmbies had any opening day jitters, they can thank junior running back Theo Ossei-i\nto for calming them quickly. 
Ossei-Anto tore through the Carroll defense for a 50-yard touchdown run on tho game's second play, setting the tone for Zahm 's triumph over tho Vermin. Ossei-Anto finished with 123 yards on 12 carries and two rushing touchdowns. Despito those eye-popping numbers, he downplayed his role and deflected praise to his teammatos. 
"I didn't do anything special. I didn't really even havo to juke anybody," Ossei-Anto said. "When the offensive line's that good, opening holes that big, all I have to do is run through them." 
Senior quarterback Sean Wieland was ellkient in direct­ing the Zahm offense, which gained 227 total yards to Carroll's 71. Wieland completed four of his seven passes for 86 yards. lie found f'reshman Xavier Murphy three times for 70 yards, as tho tall wide receiver ropeatodly eaused a mismateh on the outside. 
The "workhorse" of' tho day, Ossei-Anto said, was sopho­more Jared Carter. lin played every snap on both oll'ense and defense, running six times for 15 yards and providing Ossei­Anto with plenty of running room -and Carroll's offense none at all. 
Carter's defense included Murphy and follow freshman Hobbie Weber, who both had interceptions. 
"The dof'ense was in a couple tough spots, but thny eame up with somo huge plays," Ossei­Anto said of the unit that didn't allow a first down in the second half. 
Carroll quarterback sopho­
see ZAHM/Page 19 







