
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 6 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2007 
Kramer prepared to oppose bill 
Landlord plans voter registration, gatherings 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Editor 
South Bend land lor :1 Mark Kramer -who rents to 600 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student'> -says he is prnpared to fight the proposed party per­mit ordinance he believes will be voted into efl"ect by the Common Council. 
"In the event the ordinance passes, I'm prepared to take legal steps to challenge that," he said. "I have secured an attorney to investigate and go forward with this." 
Kramer said the proposed ordinam~e. which would apply to the tenants of his 80 houses, is unfttirly targeted at students and would not solve the problem of out-of-control student parties. 
"By and large, the students really feel like they're being treated unfairly and targeted," he said. "They feel alienated from South Bend." 
The proposed ordinance would require residents of boarding houses -buildings in which two or more unrelated people live -to file an applica­tion for a permit 10 days before hosting a party at which more than 25 people would have access to alcohol. Failure to reg­ister such a gathering would be punishable by a $500 fine, with a $1,000 fine for any subsequent violation. 
see 0 RDINAN CE/ page 3 

SUB provides chance for game tickets 
Students try for Michigan game; no lottery available for Saturday's Penn State contest 
stretched through Legends during most of the event, which ran from 12 to 5 p.m. 
A total of 1,715 ID cards were swiped. registering each card holder for the drawing of 98 win­ning lottery tickets. Each lottery ticket will entitle the winner to purchase a pair of tickets to the game. Student<; could to swipe up to four ID cards each at the regis­tration, held at Legends. 
The winning numbers will be posted on the SUB Web site Tuesday at 5 p.m., said Peter Biava, co-director of program­ming for SUB. 
Students will then have until Sept. 13 to purchase their tickets from the LaFortune Box Office, he said. At that point, the remaining tickets will go on sale to students 
see TICKETS/page 3 


By KRISTEN EDELEN 
News Writer 
Many football-obsessed Notre Dame students might consider their college experience incom­plete without a road trip north to the Big House in Ann Arbor or a flight out west to "shake down the thunder" over the USC's Coli<;eum -and often, the Student Union Board facilitates lotteries for tick­ets to various away football games. 
Though students were able to enter a lottery Monday to win tickets for the Sept. 15 game at Michigan, there will be no student lottery for tickets to Saturday's game against Penn State. 
Student response was high at the ID card swipe for tickets to the Michigan game. A line of students 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
CLC 
Council focuses on 3 issues 
By GENE NOONE News Writer 
At the opening meeting of the Campus Life Council, members established three task forces to address issues of community relations, student development and the campus environment. 
Discussions of the Community Relations Task Force included references to such off-campus issues as the proposed South Bend party permit ordinance and the Aug. 21 shootings outside the popular Club 23. 
Council members expressed a need for the task force to address student safety on and off campus and promote healthier communi­ty relations between the student body and the City of South Bend. Atop a list of proposals was the formation of a committee to work with city officials for the establishment of better relations between Notre Dame and the surrounding community. 
Meanwhile, the Student Development Task Force will address student gambling, among other issues. Student Body President Liz Brown stressed the need for the CLC to be "proactive" about the issue. Student Body Vice President Maris Braun addressed student cheating as an issue for discus­sion by the task force. Another proposal dealing with Student Development involved freshman orientation. Several members said the current freshman orien­tation program is in need of reform, particularly in the sched­uling of events and conduct of students during the weekend. 
Several Council members also 
see CLC/ page 3 


Board of Governance addresses beatification, ad111.issions 
Bounce Back program Contact made with a Holy Cross university encourages high school like to remain in contact -and 
By MANDl STIRONE possibly collaborate -with other 

News Writer 

applicants to college Holy Cross schools during the beatification. Several issues and upcoming !lis e-mail, which updated
By MANDl STIRONE events were major discussion top­Hodges on St. Edward's activities 
News Writer 
ics at the Saint Mary's College for the beatification. was an Board of Governance (BOG) meet­attempt at establishing contact 
At Saint Mary's, an old program is ing on Monday, but the coming with other Holy Cross schools, she being given a new boost by Kristle beatification of Congregation of said. I lodges, the ·admissions eommissioner the Holy Cross founder Father "He said that he had the idea of of the Board of Governance. Basil Moreau dominated the dis­possibly starting a conference [of 
Bounce Back is a program through cussions. Holy Cross schoolsl," she which Saint Mary's student<; return to It is likely that Saint Mary's will explained. their high schools to eneourage young be in contact with other The e-mail detailed that he had women to eheck out Saint Mary's dur­Congregation of the Holy Cross been "fishing around and think­ing their college Sf1arch. schools during the beatification of ing of putting together a student 
"We're trying to get them to go Father Basil Moreau, student government conference of all holy baek to their high schools and talk to body president Kim Hodges said. cross universities." according to them about Saint Mary's," Hodges She received an e-mail from the Hodges. 
said. student body president of St. "Right now it's simply a Edward's University in Austin, see BOUNCE/page 3 Texas, discussing how he would see BOG/page 3 


r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, September 4, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The Pink Lady 
One day bnforn I lnft for my senior year at Notre Damn, I decided I neednd a bieyci1L 
The eommute from Clover Hidge would bn 20 minutes by foot, but a bike c~IUid get me Mary Kate thern 111 10, at M 
most. alone Knowing it was too late to go Assistant shopping for new Managing wheels, I rum­Editor maged through our garage to see what I could find. Buried in the back, behind the lawn mower and underneath our trampoline tarp, was my mom's rarely-ridden hot pink bicyele. This, I thought to myself, is per­feet. And very, very pink. So I squenzed it into the backseat of my black Chevy Prizm (Peanut, as I call her), and set off for Notre Dame. I didn't realize just how bright this bicydn really was until I parked it next to the "cool kids'" bikes at Clover Hidge. My bike wasn't just pink, it was BHIGIIT pink. IIIGII­LIGIITEH pink. Head-turning pink. I loved it even more. Plus, it was free and the seat was exceptionally comfortable. I enrtainly g1~t a few double takes as I happily bounee down the quad on "thn pink lady," as I call my pret­ty hike. My friends, for the most part, giggl1~ and tnll me it's cute. Othnrs have said they would only ride my bike if thny were intoxieat­ml. The best part of having a bike? It rnakns nw feel like a little kid again. And whnn you're 21 and teetering on the mlge of tlw real world, being young fn1~ls Iwtter than ever. When I was nine and ten years old, I absolutPiy loved going for bike rides. I would hop on my purple and white two-wiHH~Ier, dip my Walkman to my Urnbro shorts. and jam to "Daydream Bnlievnr" by the Monknes. Life was good as I eruised through Kipling Forest with my oldies tunes and giant headphones. I could nvnn ridn no-handPCI. My bikes rides to campus arml't nearly as entertaining, but there's sonwth ing about them that just makes nw smile. Hiding horne from campus, howev­er. is a different exp1\rien1:e. After a latn night at Tlw Obsnrvnr. I sonw­timns ride back at 2 or 3 in the morning. I rlul!:h my ePII phone in one hand. my handh~ bar with the other, as I pedal furiously hy the tnnnis courts and hasnball finld. On Vaness Street. stories of off-campus shoot­ings, assaults and robberies have nw constantly looking over my shoulder. At first, I considered myself tough for surviving the late night, ofT-cam­pus bike ride. But thanks to worried e-rnails from my morn and too many stories about ofT-campus dangers, I've decided to start driving horne from campus. Don't worry, NI>SP, I'm applying for a parking sticker this afternoon. 
The oiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe OfJserver. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mrnalone3@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reporting error, the Observer reported Monday that Coach Charlie Weis lost his first three home openers. He has lost two or his first three home openers. The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: How DO YOU FEEL ABOUT THE LACK OF A PENN STATE TICKET LOTTERY? 








John Shekitka Brittany Perrie Joanna Batt Zach McGoldrick Kelly Clancy Kevin Sonn 
Sophomore Senior Sophomore Junior JuniorGrad student 
Lewis Cavanaugh Dillon PE St. Ed's ''I'm angry, mad "That's lame. I "I think it's "I don't like it "Go Irish. Beat "Makes sense 
and confused." really want to unfair. Students at all. A road 
Thief throws away over 
$13,000 on accident 
BEHI.IN -A thief stole 
a briefease and threw it 
away without notieing it 
contained 10,000 curos 
($1:~.660) in cash. 
German authorities said 
Thursday. 
"I think they'll be 
annoyed when they find 
out," said a spokesman 
for police in the western 
eity of Duesseldorf. 
The case's owner, a 57­
year-old Iranian business­
man, had reported it 
missing as he prepared to 
board a flight in 
Duesseldorf-airport. A 
policewoman later found 
TODAY 
a:: 
I.IJ :::1: 
!;: 
I.IJ 


•3: 
...J 
ct 
(.) 
0 
HIGH 88 HIGH 72 HIGH 90 HIGH 90

...I 
LOW 72 LOW 65 LOW 68 LOW 68 
go. should come trip would be first." fun. , 
it -ransacked, but still containing the two cash­filled envelopes. 
Woman steals baby to keep boyfriend 
BEIJING -A Chinese woman who stole a baby in a desperate attempt to convince her boyfriend that she had borne a child has been jailed for 18 months, Xinhua news agency said Thursday. 
The 36-year old woman, surnamed Liu, pretended to be pregnant after her prospective in-laws vetoed her marriage because a tumor in her womb had made her 
TONIGHT WEDNESDA THURSDAY 
,\r,JV!J.·
\.~·-"····/ 

'~~\\~\::~~; 
.._i ~
·:§ ~ 
~\ '~ 
•
• 
'~J,lf$;:
: ! \ \
~l~ 
infertile. 
Two days after entering the hospital in east China's Zhejiang province on her "due date," she stole a baby boy from the maternity ward while the mother was napping. She then called her boyfrinnd and asked him to take her home. 
Liu turned herself into police two days later and the child was returned to his family. Her voluntary surrender ensured her a light sentence, Xinhua said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Lions." because no one like Pennsylvania." 

DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer 
Notre Dame students Joe Edmonds, a sophomore, and Erin Burns, a senior, talk to each other on the first Monday of the fall semester. Students around campus are adjusting to new schedules and commitments, and some are also enjoying the unusually warm weather outside. 
OFFBEAT IN BRIEF 
There will be free fitness classes offered at Rolfs Sports RecCenter this week starting at 7:30 a.m. today. Schedules can be found online. Space is limited. 
The Suite museum will show "Between Figurative and Abstract," paintings by Gao Xingjan Tuesday at 10 
a.m. Admission is free. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team will play the College of Charleston in the Shamrock Invitational on Friday at 7 
p.m. at the Joycn Center. 
The  Snite  Museum  will  
show  "The  Camera  and  
Rainbow;  Color  in  

Photography on Wednesday. Admission is fren. 
Notre Dame men's soccer will play Hhode Island Friday night at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
The public Policy Lecture Series will hold "Latino immi­grants in America: Our Past and our Future on Wednesday at 4::HJ p.m. in 220 McKenna Hall. President and general eouneil of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Edueational Fund. John Trasvina will speak. 
The Show will begin this Friday night at 8:00 p.m. in the Joyce Center. OK Go and Lupe Fiasco will headline the coneert. Tickets are on saln in the LaFortune Box Offke for $10. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

Tuesday, September 4, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Bounce 
continued from page 1 
The program was initially estab­lished so many prospective stu­dents would not need to contact Saint Mary's in advance to receive an information packet with infor­mation and an application. If the Saint Mary's representative set up the visit far enough in advance, she would try to work with the school she was visiting to organize it as much as possible. 
Now, the program is organized with the help of the Admissions Commissioner and a number of Student Ambassadors. 
"It's still like that, but [before) that was only if you did it in advance," she said. "But now we delinitely have a list of the schools that are being contacted and can set it up in advance." 
The program is designed to ensure that not only a specific class, club or group of girls is reached in any one school. 
"We want to make sure that everyone has the chance to do this," Ilodges said. 
Through the 16 Student Ambassadors, including Hodges, they hope to reach as many poten­tial Saint Mary's students as possi­ble. A main organizational point would be it's potential official place during the week of fall break. 
"We're trying to make it an offi­cial program [for] over fall break," Hodges said. "All of our student ambassadors are required to do that when they go home, and we're trying to get other students to do that too." 
That means expanding beyond the Midwest, Hodges said. 
"We're trying to get every­where," she says. "We have girls from 45 states and nine foreign countries, and we want that to keep going so we have girls from everywhere," she said. 
The efforts will target California, among other states. 
Bounce Back has yielded results, Hodges says. Her sister Kim, Saint Mary's student body president, has been involved in Bounce Back at their high school. 
"I just spoke to a girl this morn­ing in my class who did it over her fall break, and 11 girls from her high school are now freshmen at Saint Mary's," she said. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
ATHLETIC TRAINING & SPORTS MEDICINE 
There will be a meeting for any Notre Dame freshman students interested in the student athletic training program. The meeting will be held on Monday, September lOth, at 4:15p.m. in the Joyce Center Athletic Training Room. 



Come See Us 


at Activities Night 
opposing team and how many tickets are then sold to SUB, he said. 
"I think if we were able to logistically support a ticket lot­tery for every away game ... it is feasible for students to go to, we would probably do that," he said. 
When asked if students would be interested in purchasing tick­ets for future games against Penn State, Ethier said: "Oh, absolutely." 
Contact Kristen Edelen at kedele01 @saintmarys.edu 
Tickets 
continued from page 1 
without winning lottery tickets. 
Each ticket will cost $60, Biava said. 
'This is Michigan's price," he said. "We sell completely at face value." 
Colin Ethier, an off-campus senior, expressed confusion about the lack of a lottery for Penn State tickets. 
"I can't imagine why we don't have a lottery for this game because Penn State gives ... tick­ets to the visitors," Ethier said. "The only thing I can think would be maybe because of a huge demand from alumni." 
According to Biava, SUB was assigned to administer a few stu­dent lotteries before the current administration took office. 
"I think the general idea is if it's an away game that most stu­dents will be able to go to, those are the ones SUB will pick up," Biava sad. 
The process depends on the number of tickets the Athletic Department can get from an 
sions centered on tackling energy problems by collecting research
CLC 
on energy use in residence halls while also promoting new energy
continued from page 1 
efficient campaigns. 
A proposal was also put for­voiced their concern for the cam­ward to request the University pus to become more environ­architect inform students about mentally friendly. Council discus-the future look of campus. With 

Landlord 
continued from page 1 
An alternate proposal from the mayor's office would require resi­dents who meet those ei-iteria to simply notify police of such a party 24 hours in advance. 
But, according to Kramer, the city's current disorderly house ordinance provides adequate leg­islation to control disruptive par­ties. 
"I think [the proposed ordi­nance is] a feel-good ordinance for the community," he said. "My personal opinion is the ordinance they have in place is adequate enough and heavy-handed enough." 
Last week, Capt. Phil Trent, a spokesman for the South Bend Police Department, said the enforcement of the ordinance might not be an effective way to regulate large gatherings. 
Patrols which operate by responding to calls will have little time to search the streets for 25­person parties, he said. 
Kramer has called for off-cam­pus students to register to vote in the Nov. 8 election. He says he plans .to hold voter registration drives, which could bring about a more responsive tone toward the positive contributions made by students, he said. 
Kramer was critical of Common Council members in favor of the ordinance. 
"I think those folks are slapping students in the face," he said. 
Just two years ago, Kramer crit­icized another action of the Common Council. 
He advocated against revisions to the city's disorderly house ordi­nance made in July 2005. The amendment dropped the number 
ISSA's ANNUAL WELCOME/ WELCOME BACK PICNIC 
All international students and their host families are invited to welcome in the new academic year. 
Friday, September 071h @5:30pm 
Holy Cross Field (across from the Grotto) (Rain location: Stepan Center) 

Contact ISSA at 631-3825 with any questions. 
Event sponsored by International Student Services & Activities 
+ 
Executive Secretary Annie Davis, who serves as the Saint Mary's liaison for The Show?, said students can buy tickets for Friday's concert in the Saint Mary's Student Center. 

+ 
Activities night will be held Wednesday from 6 p.m. until 8 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. 


Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
BOG 
continued from page 1 
thought," she said of the con­ference. "He asked for our ideas as well, and I thought that it was a good idea." 
The Student Athletic Commission is working on its big event, Light the Night, which will take place all around campus. The main event will be a 2.5-mile walk. There will also be food and music at the cost-free event. 
In other BOG news: 
+ Alumnae Commissioner Christine Darche said the Academic Affairs Career Insights Day, to be held on November 6th, will have three major sections: faculty booths, a networking lunch and career insights delivered by alumna,.e. 
the construction of a new law school and residence hall, the Council agreed students should have the opportunity to better see how campus will look in the near future. 
Contact Gene Noone at enoone@nd.edu 
of noise violations required to send a notice to abate from three to one. Under the amendment, landlords also received a notice to abate, but were spared from fines if they evicted the offending ten­ants within 30 days. 
That change -designed to send a strong message to people hosting rowdy parties, Council members said -pushed Turtle Creek to evict six students. Kramer, on the other hand, insist­ed he wouldn't evict anyone for noise violations and warned against alienating off-campus stu­dents from the community. 
"Where should the priority real­ly be?" Kramer told The Observer in October 2005. "I don't think we should be worrying about a little alcohol at a party after a football game." 
In the meantime, Kramer said, he will try to ease town-gown relations within his neighbor­hoods by hosting block parties. 
He plans to host such an event on Sept. 9 for residents of the 900­1000 block of Notre Dame Avenue, he said. 
"[Students and neighbors] can get together in a relaxed setting without alcohol and get to know each other and hopefully gain a respect for each other and each other's concerns," he said. 
If the event succeeds, he said, he will bring it to the other neigh­borhoods in which he rents. 
"It can't hurt," he said. "If it's successful ... we can ease tensions and take a proactive and positive approach rather than the negative approach the council is taking." 
Still, Kramer admitted student actions have played a part in the genesis of the party permit con­troversy. 
"If students were a little better behaved and a little more consid­erate to [their] neighbors, we wouldn't have this happening here," he said. 
If the ordinance passes, many students will still choose to move off campus, Kramer said. 
"Even with the ordinance, you still have more freedom living off campus," he said. 
Contact Karen Langley at klangle1 @nd.edu 



-~~ 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, September 4, 2007 
HONDURAS


Saudi Binladin Group denies 9/11 involve111ent 
Felix strands thousands 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -The Saudi Binladin Group is not liable for the Sept. 11 attacks, attorneys for the multinational engineering firm claim. beeause it made Osama bin Laden surrender his stake in the company 14 years ago. 
Hesponding in federal court to lawsuits over the attacks, the lawyers wrote that in 1993, the terrorist mastermind was forced out as a shareholder in two com­panies his fmnily owns. 
The eom pany filed the defense papers late Friday in U.S. District Court in answer to claims brought by reprnsentatives, sur­vivors and insurance earriers of the victims. The plaintiffs, who seek billions of dollars in dam­ages, allege the Saudi Binladin c;roup, along with numerous banks, charitins and individuals worldwide, provided material support and assistance to~ al­<)aida prior to the attacks. 
The plaintills contend Bakr bin Laden -Osama bin Laden's brother, the senior member of the bin Laden family and chair­man of Saudi Binladin Group ­was one of' al-Qaida's principal finaneiers. 
A judge in July had ordered Saudi Binladin Group to provide additional inf'ormation about whnrn the money for Osama bin Ladrm's 2 percent stake in the company wnnt. 
In the Friday filing, lawyers li1r Saudi Binladin Group said Bakr Binladin publiely renounced 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Parts of' Southern California sweltered in triple-digit temperatures Monday as a heat wave strntched into the seventh day and contributed to power out­ages that len thousands without air conditioning. 
Temperatures soared in the San Fernando Valley with Woodland Hills reporting 102 degrees and Van Nuys at 99, according to the N a tiona! Weather· 

tomers in Los Angeles, Orange, Ventura, Hiverside and San Bernardino counties had no electricity, spokesman Steve Conroy said. 
San Diego Gas and Electric Co., which serves San Diego County and southern Orange County, dedan~d a power emer­gency and began preparing for potential rolling blackouts as demand hit a rneord. 
About 30,000 of its customers experifmced outages Monday. but clnctrieity was restored to 22,000 of them by the after­noon, spokesman Peter Hidalgo said. 
"We need immediate energy Osama bin Laden in a statement 

Major hurricane leaves Miskito Indians, tourists vulnerable at coast
released to the media in 
February 1994. Two months later, the Saudi government revoked Osama bin Laden's citi­zenship and froze his assets, the lawyers noted. 
These actions. they said, occurred well before the United States first placed Osama bin Laden on its list of designated terrorist individuals and organi­zations on Aug. 20. 1998. 
Osama bin Laden has more than 50 siblings who share in the fortune amassed after Osama's father, Mohammed bin Laden, built his construction empire, ele­vating his family to among the wealthiest in Saudi Arabia. The al-Qaida founder's financial worth has remainBd in dispute. 
The Sept. 11 commission con­cluded that the Sudanese govern­ment took Osama bin Laden's assets when he left the Sudan in 1996. 
"lie lefl Sudan with practically nothing," the commission con­cluded. "When bin Laden arrived in Afghanistan, he relied on the Taliban until he was able to rein­vigorate his fundraising efforts by drawing on ties to wealthy Saudi individuals that he had estab­lished during the Afghan war in the 1980s." 
Lawyers for the bin Laden fam­ily companies have said Osama bin Laden never received any buyout payment. They said the companies consulted with Saudi authorities, who dirneted that the money be placed in trust outside Osama bin Laden's control. 
Associated Press 

SAN PEDRO SULA -Planes shuttled tourists from island resorts in a desperate airlift Monday as Hurricane Felix bore down on Honduras and Belize. But thousands of Miskito Indians were stranded along a swampy coastline where the Category 4 storm was expected to make landfall. 
Grupo Taca Airlines provided special free flights to the main­land, quickly touching down and taking off again to scoop up more tourists. Some 1,000 people were evacuated from the Honduran island of Hoatan, popular for its pristine reefs and diving resorts. Another 1,000 were removed from low-lying coastal areas and smaller islands. 
Felix's top winds weakened slightly to 135 mph as it head­ed west, but forecasters warned that it could strength­en again before landfall along the Miskito Coast early Tuesday. From there, it was projected to rake northern Honduras, slam into southern Belize on Wednesday and then cut across northern Guatemala and southern Mexico, well south of Texas. 
A storm surge of more than 18 feet above normal tides could devastate Indian com­munities along the Miskito Coast, a swampy, isolated region straddling the 
lloqduras-Nicaragua border where thousands live in wood­en shacks, get around on canoes and subsist on fish, beans, rice, cassava and plan-
Southern California 

heat wave continues 
"We need immediate
Snrvice. replaced." Downtown Los energy conservation, Lightning Angeles also was strikes on grid
or else there will be 
expected to see equipment due
rolling blackouts." 
tnmperatures to scattered dimb above 100. desert thunder­Southern Peter Hidalgo storms also Calif'ornia Edison were adding to
San Diego Gas and 
said 20,000 cus­the strain. 
Electric Co. 
conservation, or else there will be rolling blackouts," llidalgo said. 
About 3,500 customers in scattered parts of Los Angeles also were without power, Los Angeles Department of Water and Power spokeswoman MaryAnne Piersen said. 

"Probably more than 90 per­cent of them are due to stress on the system due to the heat," she said. "Different pieces of equipment get fatigued and blow out, so they have to be 
The California 

Independent System Operator, which over­sees the state's power grid, said no major shortages were expected. But it was urging cus­tomers to conserve electricity by setting air conditioning thermo­stats higher and waiting to use major appliances until after dark. 
Helief was in sight with cooler temperatures forecast over the next several days. 
"Everyone will see a drop of eight to 11 degrees on Tuesday," said Stuart Seto of the National Weather Service. "By Thursday, things will be getting back to normal." 
tains. 

"There's nowhere to go here," said teacher Sodeida Rodriguez, 26, who was hun­kering down in a concrete shelter. 
The only path to safety is up rivers and across lakes that are too shallow for regular boats, but many lack gasoline for long journeys. Provincial health official Efrain Burgos said shelters were being pre­pared, and medicine and sani­tation kits were being brought in, but that 18,000 people must find their own way to higher ground. 
"We're asking the people who are on the coasts to find a no rain yet. 
"We are ready to f'ace an eventual tragedy," said Hoatan fire chief Douglas Fajardo. 
Most tourists took the free flights out. but locals prepared to ride out the storm. 
"We know it's a tremendous hurricane that's coming," said real estate worker Estella Marazzito. 
The U.S. National Hurricane Center said Felix could dump up to 12 inches of rain in iso­lated areas. In the highland capital of Tegucigalpa, more than 100 miles inland, authori­ties deared vendors from mar­kets prone to flooding. 
Across the 
border in Belize 

way to safer "We're asking the City, skies grew areas, because increasingly
people who are on the 
we don't have cloudy and
coasts to find a way
the capability winds kicked up to transport so to safer areas bcause as residents many people," boarded win­
we don't have the 
he said. "The dows and lined
capability to
houses are up for gas. made of wood. transport so many Tourists compet­They're going people." ed for the last to be com­seats on flights pletely swept to Atlanta and 
Efrain Burgos
away. They're Miami. Police not safe." Honduran health official went door-to­
The storm was following the same path as 1998's Hurricane Mitch, a sluggish storm that stalled for a week over Central America, killing nearly 11,000 people. But Felix was expected to maintain a much more rapid pace. 
By Monday afternoon, crash­ing waves reached 15 feet higher than normal on Honduras' coast, but there was 
door forcing 
evacuations. Liquor sales were banned, and stores were running out sup­plies. 
"I just wish they had more airplanes to take care of' every­one who has to leave," said Atlanta, Georgia, resident Mitzi Carr, 48, who cut short her weeklong vacation on Hatchet Caye. 
Belize is still eleaning up 

Siz~lene (Sizzlelini®)­
Every Tuesday enjoy our Sizzlelini® Specialty (enough for two) for just $10.95 A sizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B;)-Iefie (Bellini)­
A frosty raspberry, green apple or peach Italian work of art for $2 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelint Bellini Tuesdays! 
KITCHEN e 
Unmistakably Italian ~Unbelievably Good 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka 574-271-1692 
Reservations Accepted 




ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, September 4, 2007 CoMPILED FROA,, THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Transit strike strands commuters 
LONDON -Large swathes of London's sprawling transport network shut down Monday night after maintenance workers walked off the job, arousing commuter anger and drawing warnings the strike will incon­venience millions of Britons. 
Around 2,300 members of the National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers left their jobs at 6 p.m. to begin a 72-hour strike, in a dispute stemming from the collapse of their employer, maintenance consortium Metronet. 
Many commuters were caught en route home when the strike took effect, forcing them to take overcrowded buses and taxis. 
Palestinian rockets land in Israel 
JERUSALEM -A Palestinian rocket exploded Monday next to a day care center crowded with toddlers in southern Israel, sparking anger and panic in the frequently targeted town of Sderot and bringing warnings of retribution from Israeli leaders. 
No one was hurt, but the blast and the panic underlined Israel's ineffectiveness in the face of the primitive rockets, which fall daily despite frequent Israeli airstrikes and occasional ground offensives. 
Prime Minister Ehud Olmert pledged to pro­vide "better security for the residents," indicat­ing he would step up the Israeli offensive against Palestinian militants. 
"We will not limit ourselves in regards to tar­geting the rocket launchers and those who dis­patch them," Olmert said at a news conference in Jerusalem. "The instruction given to the army is to destroy every 'Qassam' rocket launcher and anyone who is involved in their launching against the residents of Israel." 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Popular musician shot and killed 
DALLAS -Jeffrey Carter Albrecht, a key­board player for the band Edie Brickell & New Bohemians, was shot to death early Monday while trying to kick in the door of his girlfriend's neighbor, police said. 
The neighbor, who was not immediately identified, was asleep in bed when he woke up around 4 a.m. to his wife screaming that someone was breaking into the house, according to a police report. The neighbor yelled through the door for Albrecht to leave and then fired his handgun through the door. Albrecht was shot in the head and died at the scene, police said. 
The case is under investigation and no arrests have been made. 
More kids diagnosed as bipolar 
CHICAGO -A new analysis suggests there's been a huge increase in the number of U.S. children diagnosed with bipolar disor­der, but experts question whether the surge is real and say some kids have been misla­beled. 
Researchers looked at the number of times children under 19 went to the doctor and were diagnosed with or treated for bipolar disorder, also known as manic depression. They found a 40-fold increase, from an esti­mated 20,000 visits in 1994 to 800,000 in 2003. The jump coincided with children's ris­ing use of antipsychotic medicine. 
Some doctors believe bipolar disorder doesn't occur in children, and until last month there was only one drug approved to treat the illness in kids. 

LOCAL NEWS 
Plane lands on Indiana highway 
BROWNSBURG. Ind. -A small plane landed on a stretch of w1der-construction highway on Monday after the pilot reported having mechani­cal problems, officials said. 
The pilot told officials he was heading to Eagle Creek Airport on the northwest side of Indianapolis when he decided the twin-engine plane would not make it and spotted the section of Ronald Beagan Parkway being built in Hendricks CoWlty. 
The pilot and the other person on board suf­fered no injuries. 
SUDAN 

UN Secretary-General pushes for peace 
Ban Ki-moon travels to the war-torn country in the hopes of improving a desperate situation 
Associated Press 
KHARTOUM Secretary-General Ban Ki­moon is in Sudan to "give a push" for a new round of talks to end the four­year regional conflict and mobilize support for the speedy deployment of a new 26,000-member peacekeeping force, a top 
U.N. official said Monday. 
Ban was expected to have dinner with President Omar al-Bashir before heading to south­ern Sudan on Tuesday to assess implementation of the 2005 agreement that ended a separate 21-year civil war between Sudan's Muslim government in the north and the mostly Christian southern rebels. 
He was then due Wednesday in Darfur to visit a camp for some of the 2.5 million people dis­placed by the conflict there, which has claimed more than 200,000 lives. 
"It is important to move on several fronts," Jean­Marie Guehenno, the U.N. undersecretary-general for peacekeeping, told reporters traveling with Ban. This is why the sec­retary-general has come to Sudan at this time, he said. 

Ban will "give a push" member AU force now on "I don't even want .to on it so that this terrible for launching a new round the ground in Darfur will give the impression that it trauma may one day of negotiations between need "the full cooperation is breaking down. I just cease." splintered rebel groups of the government of say we have to make sure Sudan's U.N. and the government to Sudan ... and the secre­that agreement is hold­Ambassador end the protracted conflict tary-general will wish for ing," the official said, Abdelmahmood in the western Darfur that, too," he said. speaking on condition of Abdalhaleem Mohamed, region. U.N. officials hope When Ban visits Juba in anonymity because of the who greeted Ban on his the talks will get under southern Sudan, sensitivity of the issues. arrival in Khartoum, told way in October. Guehenno said, he will be Ban said he chose this The Associated Press that 
"If those negotiations sending "an important time to make the week­"we expect the visit to are not inclusive and suc­signal" about the need to long trip _ which will strengthen the relations cessful, it will be very "re-energize" the north­include stops in Chad and between Sudan and the hard to have a successful south agreement. "It is Libya _ because of the United Nations, and to peacekeeping mission," fragile," he said, citing "historic opportunity" give more emphasis on Guehenno said. "Like any delays in preparations for provided by the U.N. the peace process." peacekeeping situation, it elections in 2009, and on Security Council's July 31 Mohamed called efforts needs a solid political redeploying Sudanese resolution authorizing the to help Sudan implement foundation. It needs an forces from the south. hybrid force. the north-south agree­agreement that everybody A senior U.N. official "I want to create the ment and last year's buys into." traveling with Ban foundations of a lasting Darfur Peace Agreement, 
Deploying the new stressed the importance of peace and security," Ban which has not been imple­African Union-U.N. making sure that the said last week. "My goal is mented because only one "hybrid" force to replace north-south agreement is to lock in the progress we rebel group signed on, the beleaguered 7,000-not breaking down. have made so far, to build "quite good." 

IRAQ 


Bush hints at possible troop cuts 
One carried him away from Iraq, Baghdad. Associated Press after an eight-hour stop, toward After talks with Gen. David 
Australia for meetings with Asia­Petraeus, the U.S. commander in 
AL-ASAD AIH BASE -President Pacific leaders. Iraq, and Ambassador Ryan Bush hinted at U.S. troop cutbacks Bush did not say how large a Crocker, Bush said they "tell me if in Iraq on Monday, saying security troop withdrawal might be possible the kind of success we are now see­conditions are improving to the or whether it might occur before ing continues, it will be possible to point "where I'm able to speculate next spring when the first of the maintain the same level of security on the hypothetical." additional 30,000 troops he ordered with fewer American forces." 
Bush, in a surprise visit to Iraq, to Iraq this year are to start coming Shrouded in secrecy, Bush's trip was cautious to hedge his com­home anyway. He emphasized that was a dramatic move to steal the ments and make them conditional any cut would depend upon thunder from the Democratic on security conditions continuing to progress. Congress as it returns to improve. But he knew he had The president was joined by his Washington with fresh hopes of piqued peoples' interest by raising war cabinet and military command­ending the war. Petraeus and the prospect for Americans weary ers at an unprecedented meeting in Crocker will testify before lawmak­of a war now in its fifth year. Iraq over eight hours at this dusty ers next week, and then Bush will 
"Maybe I was intending to do military base in the heart of Anbar announce how he intends to pro­that," he told reporters as Air Force province, 120 miles west of ceed in Iraq. 
page 6 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 4, 2007 
ENGLAND 


Tower of London 
gets female guard 
Woman first to join historic Beefeaters 
Associated Press 

LONDON -Thin first woman to join the rhnks of the Heefeaters in more than 500 years has mastered the Ceremony of the Keys, the nightly locking-up ritual of the Tower of London guards. 
But she says she is still learn­ing the bloody history of the site that holds the Crown .Jewels to prepare for guiding more than 2 million visitors every year. 
Dressed in a knee-length dark blue coat with red trim and matching top hat, Moira Cameron on Monday beeame the first female Beefeater, or Yeoman Wardnr, since the corps of Tower guards was founded in 1485. She told The Assoeiated Press the medieval castle is a wonderful place to work. 
"You do the job for prestige, and because you meet people every day," she said. She rel­ishes contact with visitors after 22 years of desk work as an army accountant. 
"It's wonderful to meet these people because they so want to be here and are interested in anything you can tell them. And you can have a really good laugh with them as well," she said. 
The Tower, arguably Britain's most famous historic site, was founded by King William I shortly after he con­
quered England "You do the job for ing the rich his­in 1066. Henry prestige, and because tory of the Ill started his Tower.
you meet people
coronation pro­Famous pris­cession from the every day." oners ----h-ave­site in 1236, a included Sir royal tradition Walter Haleigh,
Moira Cameron 
that persisted three times; Guy 
Beefeater
into the 17th century. The fortress is also home to Britain's Crown .Jewels ineluding St. Edward's Crown, worn by Queen Elizabeth II during her 1953 coronation. 
Cameron, 42, started drnam­ing of a job in the Tower after six years in the army. But back then, she doubted whether she would last the minimum of 22 years' service required to apply. 
The attraction is the "depth of history" in the place, she said. 
Whiln there was never any formal ban on female Beefeaters, Britain's Ministry of Defense said it was only rocnntly that many women, who can now count maternity leave as part of their service in the forces, wnre notching up as many years as men. 
Chief Yeoman Warder John Keohane said the guards had anticipated that a woman would one day join their ranks, and only one or two had exprnssed reservations. 
"She's been here for two months and been accepted by the community," said Keohane, vory much the traditional image of a bearded Beefeator. 
Cameron, who was chosen in December and has been train­ing at the Tower since .July, said only one visitor had nxpressed strong objections to hnr appointment. She shot baek: ''I'd like to thank you for dismissing my 22 years of loyal service to ller Majesty's servic­es." 
Yeoman Sgt. Alan Kingshott, a member of the selection panel. said Cameron's voice made a strong impression at her job interview where each candidate makes a short pres­entation. 
"We like to see whether they have the presence, the bearing, the voice to be able to put it across ... in front of 300 peo­ple," he said. "She's from Scotland. She's got a lovely tone to her voice." 
Cameron relished telling the story of a fellow Scot who got away from the Tower in the 18th century. 
"There was a Lord Nithsdale. He was part of the Jacobite rebellion, who actually escaped," she said. "His wife, she came in with her lady in waiting and dressed him up in a frock, and he escaped." 
Cameron found the Beefeaters' distinctive Victorian costume an improve­ment over the meager provi­sion of plain army uniforms. 
"Now I've got these wonder­ful huge pockets," she said, revealing the pockets beneath her coattails. 
Because of the style of the coat you can't see whatever it is in my pockets. "I've got a bottle of water, my phone, my 
diary." 
Cameron says 
she is still learn­
Fawkes, who 
tried to blow up 

Parliament; Hitler's deputy Hudolf Hess; Hoger Casement, later execut­ed for his role in plotting an Irish uprising during World War I; Samuel Pepys, the diarist accused of selling naval secrets to the French; and Princess Elizabeth, the future Queen Elizabeth I. 
Two wives of Henry VIII ­Anne Boleyn and Catherine Howard -were beheaded at the Tower. 
The Beefeater nickname is thought to derive from the guards' former privilege of having their fill of beef from the king's table. Formally, they are Yeoman Warders of Her Majesty's Royal Palace and Fortress the Tower of London, and Members of the Sovereign's Body Guard of the Yeoman Guard Extraordinary. 
Cameron succeeded after two other women failed in earlier applications to become Yeoman Warders. 
"I didn't think I'd actually get the job, and I've already retrained myself to be a plumber and an electrician," she said. 
There was no big celebration in December when she learned that she had been chosen. 
"There was no one at home except my brother's dog," she said. laughing. "There was only the dog to dance with." 
ITALY 
Pope calls for environmental action 
Benedict XVI urges youth's responsibility to help save the planet 
Associated Press 
LORETO -The planet risks irreversible decline from envi­ronmentally unsustainable development, Pope Benedict XVI warned Sunday, urging young Catholics to take the lead in car­ing for the Earth and its precious resources. 
During an open-air Mass on the final day of a weekend reli­gious youth rally that drnw about 500,000 people to the town of Loreto, Italy's most important shrine dedicated to the Virgin Mary, Benedict said the world's water supply particularly needed to be preserved and shared equi­tably to avoid eonllicts. 
The Loreto meeting organized by the Italian bishops' confer­ence carried a strong environ­mental message. Participants were given biodegradable plates, recycling bags for their trash and a hand-cranked cell-phone recharger. 
Benedict told the crowd, camped out under umbrellas and tents on a vast, dusty field on the Adriatic coast, that it was up to them to save the planet from development that had often ignored "nature's delicate equi­librium." 
"Before it's too late, we need to make courageous choices that will recreate a strong alliance between man and Earth," Benedict said in his homily. "We need a decisive 'yes' to care for creation and a strong commit­ment to reverse those trends that risk making the situation of decay irreversible." 
He said water needed to be preserved since "it unfortunately becomes a source of strong ten­sions and conflicts if it isn't shared in an equitable and peaceful manner." 

Benedict lamented this week the environmental impact of recent forest fires in Italy and common good." 
Andrea Hingressi, 29, and his girlfriend of three years, Marta luzzolini, 27, said they appreciat­ed the pope's green message, partieularly during an event that was producing small mountains of plastic water bottles and other refuse. 
"It's a good idea here, because 
Greece. And during his sum­mer vacation in 

"Don't be afraid, dear 
the mountains, 

friends, to take the 
he spoke fre­quently about 'alternate' path indi­
the importance cated by true love: a 
of nature 

sober and solid lifestle, 
God's creation in inspiring spir­with loving, sincere 
ituality. and pure relations an 
U n d e r 

honest commitment to
Benedict, the 

Vatican has studies and work, and been taking the profound interest 
steps toward 

in the common good. " 
greater environ­mental sustain­ability. It has Pope Benedict XVI joined a refor­estation project 
there's so much garbage!" luzzolini said as she surveyed the grounds, which by the end of the weekend had turned into a very un-ecologi­cal field of plas­tic tarps and garbage bags. 
But the cou­ple, who trav­eled across Italy from the Tuscan city of Pisa for the event, said Benedict's other 
aimed at offsetting its C02 emis­sions, and has also said it was installing solar cells on the roof of it.'l main auditorium. 
Benedict urged the young to "go against the grain" and not be seduced by pressure, inducting from the mass media, to succeed at all cost.'l in arrogant, egotisti­cal ways. 
"Be vigilant! Be critical! Don't get swept up in the wave of this powerful persuasion," he said. "Don't be afraid, dear friends, to take the 'alternate' path indicat­ed by true love: a sober and solid lifestyle, with loving, sincere and pure relations, an honest com­mitment to studies and work, and the profound interest in the main message-about how young people should not be afraid to commit themselves to marriage even though so many marriages fail -had particular resonance. 

"Marriage is a challenge that we are thinking about," Hingressi said, as he snuggled with luzzolini under an umbrel­la. "I appreciate that he says there are diffieulties, but that if you have this desire, this will to follow your dreams, confide in .Jesus." 
The meeting was an Italian warm-up for next year's World Youth Day, in Sydney, Australia, which the 80-year-old pope plans to attend. 
STUDENTS 
Transportation Services will be offering two Driver Training Sessions in September. 
If you have not attended a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented vehicle, you must attend a Driver Training session BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday, September to•h, at 7:00pm and at 8:00pm in Room 102 of Debartolo Hall. 
The session will last approximately 30 minutes. Please bring your drivers license and a pen 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, faculty, and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. See our website at: transportation.nd.edu 
Ifyou have any questions on the Driver Training sessions or the Motor Pool you may contact Transportation Services at 631-6467 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Tuesday, September 4, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
DfJW 
Jonu  13,357~74  +lll:H}l  
ur­ &to11tt!:  &.o1·R1:  ~e 'l.ollmtt~:  
t~S  7S  477  t..7SU12:.1Ut  


COJI1P.Ar4Y '!,j,C.HA:-J6E ::ii6AI;~ p R.:OC. E 
' 

S&9 OtP RtC:PJ.C•TS (SPY) +-0.99 +-1.ilil 1il7.59 POWtRSHARtS (Q QQQ) +-1.1.2 +-0.5il ilfl.a? SU~II'-l!ROSYS I~IC (J/J.VA) +-2.10 +-0.11 5 . .):5 HOt•lt OtPOT ~IC (HO) +-3.it3 +-1 ..27 38.31 

10-YeA.Q. ~IOTe +-O.m +-0.035 i!.537 
13-Wt8( 8JJ.J_ +-6.97 +-0 ..260 3.990 30-YeA:=!. 80~10 +-0.1.2 +-0.006 il.fl31 5-YellR mTe +-0.a3 +-0.035 il.251 

+-0.68 7ii.Oil GOLO ($fTrol' al.) 
LIGHT ffiUOt (Uai::JI.) 
+-fiDO .sa 1.90 POR:( atllliS (oents/11::1.) -1.60 90.i10 

Ye~l 115ii950 eiJP..O 0.73i!6 POUr-10 o.il95a Cll.r-IAOIAr-1 $ 1D535 
IN BRIEF 
Bush addresses housing market 
WASHINGTON-President Bush on Friday announced a set of modest proposals to deal with an alarming rise in mortgage defaults that have contributed to turbulent financial markets over recent weeks. 
Housing analysts said it was highly likely the limited steps Bush outlined will be expanded in coming weeks by a Democrat­controlled Congress intent on responding to growing voter anxiety as up to 2 million homeowners worry about losing their homes. 
Officials in the troubled housing industry said the important thing was that the admin­istration had finally offered a proposal, a step they said should help calm global finan­cial markets that have been on a rollercoast­er ride in recent weeks as investors worried about a serious credit crunch. 
Serious pension problems in Japan 
TOKYO -After reading a book this year about serious flaws in Japan's pension sys­tem, retired deliveryman Yoshikazu Hirano thought he'd check his own records just to be safe. 
He's glad he did: The 7 4-year-old discov­ered the government had shortchanged him by 460,000 yen ($3,770) in benefits he accrued while driving a truck for three years in the 1950s and 60s. 
Hirano wasn't alone. Shortly afterward, the government confessed to losing track of pension records linked to an astounding 64 million claims -igniting a scandal that has punished the ruling party at the polls and eroded confidence in the ability of the world's second largest economy to support its growing legions of elderly. 
Hirano, who is single .and lives outside Tokyo, felt defrauded. "Had I not asked, I would have never gotten the money back," he said. 
The pension mess, fully disclosed in May, has landed on one of the world's fastest­aging societies: 21 percent of its 127 million inhabitants are 65 or older and some 25 mil­lion retirees are collecting pensions, rising to 35 million by 2040. 

SENEGAL 

Africa's economy changed by China 
The emerging superpower strongly affects the finances of the continent 
Associated Press 
DAKAR, -Selling shoes in the sweaty afternoon air of a West African mar­ket, Ousman Ka owes his job to China _ or, more precisely, to Lu Hui, the wrinkle-faced Chinese man in the blue sweater vest sitting behind him. 

"Before I was out of work, for about five years. Now I get by," says Ka, 29, from behind the counter of his stall as he pulls out blue-sequined flats for a woman's inspection. 
Nearly 4,000 miles away, in the copper mines of Zambia, it's a different story. Keith Mule, who maintains machinery at a Chinese-run mine, says he's making about half the salary of his counter­parts at other mines in the area. Union heads say they have less negotiating power with his employer, a Chinese firm that's backed by the govern­ment. And dozens of workers died two years ago in an explosion at a nearby Chinese-owned mine. 
"I am not able to live comfortably," said Mule, 52, who is supporting two daughters and his sister's son. "We are just living by chance." 

From market stalls to mines, China is every­by Western colonial pow­continent may wind up to than the $70 billion in where in Africa these ers, China offers hope and discover that they have 2006. But Beijing expects days. The continent is the economic beacon of a allowed in a new colonial trade with Africa to reach possibly the most visible country that has itself power with an Asian $100 billion by 2020. example of how China _ grown at a startling rate. face," says Adama Gaye, Even air routes have in many ways a develop­But there is also the fear the Senegalese author of begun to reflect the China ing country itself _ is that once again, a world "China-Africa: The boom. Planes head out 
changing the rest of the power has come to cozy Dragon and the Ostrich." from Beijing, Shanghai, developing world, faster up to corrupt govern­Two-way trade between Guangzhou and Hong than virtually anyone ments and rob Africa of Africa and China surged Kong to more than 20 thought possible. its resources, leaving 40 percent to $55.5 bil­African cities at least 
Yet the China-Africa ordinary Africans worse lion last year, up more once a week. By contrast, relationship comes with off than ever. than fivefold from 2000. regular flights from the both significant promise "African nations that That still lags behind United Statel) reach just and deep unease. On a are enthusiastic about trade between Africa and eight African cities. continent long dominated China's arrival on the the U.S., which hit more 
Wall street ends week on a high note 
Associated Press "act as needed" to prevent the for the year the blue chip index is 
credit crisis from hurting the up 7.2 percent despite the volatility 
national economy. of the past month. 
NEW YORK -Wall Street closed The major indexes fluctuated but Broader stock indicators also out another erratic week with a big by midday extended their gains rose. The Standard & Poor's 500 gain Friday after investors took after President Bush spoke about index rose 16.35, or 1.12 percent, comments from President Bush and details of a plan to help borrowers to 1,473.99. For the week, the S&P Federal Reserve Chairman Ben facing trouble paying their mort­fell 0.36 percent, leaving it with a Bernanke as reassuring signs Wall gages. 3.9 percent gain for the year. Street won't be left to deal with "You've got all the speeches The Nasdaq composite index rose problems in the mortgage and working for the market here," said 31.06, or 1.21 percent, to 2,596.36. credit markets on its own. . Michael Church, portfolio manager Bucking the trend of other major 
Investors balked early in Friday's at Church Capital Management in indexes, it gained 0. 76 percent for session when comments from Philadelphia. "What we've seen in the week and is up 7. 5 percent for Bernanke didn't indicate a cut in the last few weeks is that Ben the year. the benchmark federal funds rate Bernanke and the Federal Reserve Bond prices fell. The yield on the was imminent. However, they are paying attention to what's going 10-year Treasury note, which moved past some of their initial dis­on. They will help correct the credit moves inversely to its price, rose to appointment and appeared to con­markets. For now, we're in a trad­4.53 percent from 4.51 percent late centrate on comments that the Fed ing range and we have to sort Thursday. The U.S. bond market would step in if needed. through this mess." closed early ahead of the holiday 
Bernanke, speaking at the Fed's The Dow rose 119.01, or 0.90 weekend, and will be closed annual conference in Jackson Hole, percent, to 13,357.74. The Dow Monday along with the stock mar­Wyo., said the central bank will slipped 0.16 percent for the week; kets. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, September 4, 2007 
SOUTH KOREA 

Intelligence chief reveals role in captives' release 
Kirn faces criticism for working in public 
Associated Press 

SEOUL -The of'f'ieial code of' conduct for South Korea's main spy ageney was once "work in the shadows, aim for the light" -meaning that missions should be carried out in secret in pursuit of' the national interest. 
So South Koreans were sur­prised when Kim Man-bok, the National Intelligence Service chief, turned up in Afghanistan late last month, saying he directed negotia­tions with Taliban militants to gain the release of' 19 captive South Koreans. 
Kim personally brought back the Christian aid volun­tenrs after six weeks in grim conditions in the Afghan desert. Now, hownver, he is facing harsh criticism for allngedly pnrforming his d u tics too much in llw public eye. 
"Thn life of' an intelligence agency is confidential," the conservative mass circulation Chosun llbo newspaper said 
went there, was very inap­propriate," said Nam Ju­hong, an intelligenee expert at Seoul's Kyunggi University. "It could form a bad prece-· dent. given many kidnapping incidents are still taking place around the world." 
Further creating a stir was a press release Kim's aides distributed to journalists aboard the Korean Air flight that carried the hostages home, parts of which praised Kim's role. 
All South Koreans already knew the efforts made by the NIS, even if it didn't boast of them," the liberal Hankyoreh newspaper said in an editori­al. "They brought down their values by themselves with careless behavior. The NIS should be more mature." 
South Korea's intelligence chiefs have generally avoided the media spotlight in a coun­try that for decades has faeed tensions with communist rival North Korea. 
Kim, who took the top spy 
job in 
November, was 

in an nditorial "If our nationals are not unknown to Monday. "Kim's South Koreans
in danger again in
behavior is like before the 
that of' an ama­the future, I will not hostage crisis. 
teur. It is a hesitate to go there, lie held a news double, even conference last
even ifit is a place of
triple, blow to m o n t h
death."
South Korea." announcing 
Kim, a career that he intelligence Kim Man-bok arranged the officer, has second-ever
National Intelligence
defended him­inter-Korean
Service chief
sell', saying he felt the need to eommand his junior of'l'ieers on the spot as the hostage crisis, in which two South Kor<\ans were shot to death in the early stages, showed little sign of' progress. 
"If our nationals arn in dan­ger again in the future, I will not hesitate to go there even if' it is a plaee of death," Kim told an NIS meeting he presided over hours after he returned home Sunday with the former hostages, aceord­ing to reports in major South Korean media. 
The NIS refused to conl'irm the reports. 
Since he flew to Afghanistan on Aug. 22, Kim was seen in television footage sever<tl times, somntimes direetly talking to journalists and accepting requests for photos. 
On the weekend l'light from Dubai back to Seoul, TV footage even showed Kim talking to reportnrs about a South Korean man seated next to him, who had announced the deal with the Taliban on the release of the hostages. 
"This man persuaded (the Taliban) very well," Kim told reporters, of the mysterious figure, dubbed "sunglass man" by media for his ubiqui­tous shades and believed to be an NIS operative. "This guy speaks English, Pashtun and Iranian well," Kim said. "I ean say he is a custom­made negotiator." 
llis (Kim's) behavior-pub­licly speaking to the media, not to mention the fact the intelligence head himself 
summit talks 

following seeret visits to the communist North. 
The summit, originally sehed uled for late August, has been postponed until early October. 
Some critics are linking Kim's trip to Afghanistan to his reported intention to run in parliamentary elections next April, while others say Kim traveled to Afghanistan to deal with alleged Taliban demands for ransom. 
"I believe the reason why Kim went to Afghanistan has something to do with ran­som," Chung llyung-keun, a member of the main opposi­tion Grand National Party, told a party meeting Monday, according to an aide. 
"The government has denied the allegations, but I'm moving toward a solid beliof' that the government paid more than $20 million of ransom, conside'ring foreign media reports and other materials," Chung said, aeeording to the aide, Park Ung-seo. 
Chung served as a deputy intelligence chief in the mid­1990s. 
Kim denies any ransom was paid. 
"There was no such deal," he reiterated Sunday at the airport when the hostages returned. 
The N IS has also denied that Kim has any intention to run for election. 
"We've repeatedly denied that for a long time," said an NIS official who refused to give his name, citing agency policy. 
ENGLAND 
Chef leads lunch reform 
Jamie Oliver calls for ban on junk food and more money for meals 
Associated Press 
LONDON -Please sir, we don't want any more! 
Naked Chef Jamie Oliver's push for healthier foods to replace greasy french fries, chicken nuggets and turkey twizzlers on British school menus is in a twist. 
Apparently, the students aren't anxious to try it. 
The celebrity chef has led a nationwide campaign to improve 
the quality of food served in schools, 'Tm still committed demanding 
to it, but really over 
more money for 
meals and a ban the next five years, 
on junk food. His we'll see that nega-TV series 
tive turn into a
"Jamie's School 
positive."
Dinners" exposed how eafeteria menus Jamie Oliver relied on pre­
chef 
pan~d foods like chicken nuggets ted two years ago to spending $560 million on improving meals. 
"The School Food Trust was very realistic when we began the transformation of' school meals. We were always anticipating a drop," the agency said in a state­ment. 
No "parent, caterer or head teacher would disagree that with increasing levels of type two dia­betes, hnart disease and obesity, something had to be done," the statement said. 
One factor in the drop may be children's rnluctance to change their eating habits, trust spokesman Brian Dow said. 
"This is a major eultural shill in children's attitudes, in five years time I think we will see sig­nificant growth," Dow told BBC television. "Gradually, children will gnt usnd to it." 
School eaterers say they sup­port the program's aims, but believe the ehanges may be too extreme. 
"We believe that such radieal changes to young p110ples dietary habits are too draconian and the spned or their introduction is too fast," the Loeal Authority. Caterers Association said in a July rnport. 
There arn also indications the government may need to spend more on thn program. 
The rnquirements for fresher ingrndients mean the average primary school meal price has rison 20 pereent since 2003 to $3.88, the association said. More than 91 pereent of' sehool cater­ers say they are now breaking even or losing money, compared to 2003 when all caterers were profitable. 
and released Monday. 

The figures show a 17 percent drop among secondary sehool students and a 9.6 percent drop among primary school pupils since the 2004-2005 school year. Students who opt out must either pack their own lunch or buy it elsewhere. 
Oliver is best known as the star of the television show "The Naked Chef' -a reference not to nudity but to the bare simpliei­
ty of his recipes. Although he remains the pub­lic faee of the effort to get chil­dren to eat healthily, he has no formal role in the School Food Trust. 
Nevertheless, on Monday the chef urged par­ent<; and the gov­ernment to stay 
or the turkey twizzler a eorkscrew of' mainly reconstitut­ed turkey scraps and preserva­tives. Such meals, usually served with piles of fatty french fries, could cost as little as 66 cenL'i. 
Spurred to aetion, the govern­ment set up the Sehool Food Trust in 2005 to help sehools improve the quality of their food. Sample menus for the new pro­gram inel uded vegetarian quiche, lentil burgers and mush­room tagliatelle. 
But more than 424,000 stu­dents opted out of their sehool meal plans in the first two years of the program, according to gov­ernment ligures obtained by the opposition Liberal Democrats committed to the program. 
''I'm still committed to it, but really over the next five years, we'll see that negative turn into a positive," he told British Broadeasting Corp. radio. "We have to be philosophical, we have to keep supporting it," he said. "We have to know and do what's best for our kids." 
The British government has warned that one in six British children is obese, saying the fig­ure could rise to half of all chil­dren by 2050. 
The School Food Trust con­firmed the numbers had dropped, but said the trend was part of a decline that began before the government commit-



Coffee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, September 4 7:30-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 

The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students invites gay, lesbian, and b1sexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends. and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone 1s welcome and confiden!lahty is assured. 


CURE COUNCil 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN

STUDENTS 

,------------­
Tuesday, September 4, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 

Follow the financial news. 
Join us for our company presentation: Tuesday, September 4, 2007 
EVENT: TIME: 

VENUE: 
SPEAKER: MARKETS & BANKING PRESENTATION 

s~oopm 
Club Room at Legends Brennan Smith, Managing Director Investment Banking 


Make the financial news. 
Pl'ease consult with your Car·eer Services Department for interview dates and resume submission deadlines. 

•Global Transaction S~nvites 

apply online at ontampus.citi.com 
cm'lei's get of ilone 
1:1l!:l¢7 Cll"P'•,op ~~,All •li\Jhh ~~~i•«, titi &'t:i tlh #¥!! 1-H !>lt#qn #tt f~~~ttrl '~v•oe tnMk~ (l! C'hw.,~v loc N !b iltf~!Wl~~ t!'0 <~fl" ~-w:~>d r~1,1kt~tw tllnJUQhttal t~ w.uli1. Let·~ •:;11<111 Oaroil t5> il H!!"t1t:<i! mar~ a! Ctli)muplr.c !:llign:;up G!otull Milfi%{1> lr.r. ,...,c Citll:>wbi, N.A ;,w >iiiJu;;ii qmort•..t'iit-¢ empkyr;r:~; 'MlrlD./\'_ 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, September 4, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Remembering 'The Kick' 
1~0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notte Dame, IN 46556 
ED11UR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR 8USINF..SS MANAGER Ken Fowl~r Kyle Wesr 
As.s1; MANAl;ING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily ASST. MANAGING ElliTOR: Mary Kare Malone 
NEWS ElliTOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWI'OINT Enn'OR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Kho~ey Chris Hine ScENE ElliTOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S Enri'Oil: Katie Kohler 
PIIOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
AUVEifriSING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 

An DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS AllMINISTRAI'OR: Chrisrian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
fAX 

(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING ('\74) 6.31-6900 obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 6.31-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (57ft) 631-4541 obsme<i!lnd.cdu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 6.31-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 6.31-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY's DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/Nf 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. F.ditorial conwll, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Obs~rver reserves the right tO refuse adveni,;emenrs h:L\ed on comem. 
The news is reported :L< accurardy and objectively as possible. Unsigned ediwrials represem rhe opinion of the majority of the f.diwr in Chid; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Fdirors and department editors. Commcmarics, letters .111d columns pre"ent the views of the author\ and not nect·ssarily those ofThe ( >bserver. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The !fee t•xpression ofall opinions through letters i,; encouraged. !.etters to tht· Editor must be signed and mtL\t include contact inJC>rntarion. 
Qumitms rrgarding Observer polidfS shoukl be dirmed to F.ditor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Olmrvet (\JSP~ 'i'l11l-4tlfMI) i\ pubh~hal Mnnday thr<~ul(h Frida)' c:u,;cpr durin~ <.'Um •rul v.ac.atUm ('ICWKit A mh.urplion m Tile Ol~mr b SIOO fur one ik..adrmh.: year: $'S' lnr nne W:IIIC"-IC"r. 
'llu! OI~M.•rva it pul.ll,hnl.&r· I'OSTMASTER tll-4 Suurh l>illl!lg H.dl !'lt:nd Okidi'CSII '-~mccriun~ ru: Num: ll,une, IN 4l•'5~C-..IJ77'J The"Ohsc:rver l'crlu..li(oll pu\t.I~'C paul -11 Nut~ [>.unt• P.O. Box 779 .uniiKiflitinnill m.ulml( nffi~o.a. 024 South Dming t-bll 
Nutr(' Do~mc, IN 4N)')(,..IJ779 
11M' L>lt)('rvct p, • mc:mllcr ci I~ ~»cio~tcJ rre\1. All reproduction right1 ;arc f't'.~I"V'C"d 
Harry Oliver passed away a few weeks ago. 
To current Notre Dame students, this probably doesn't mean a thing. However, for many of us legions of Irish football fans, particularly Eduardo those around in 
Magallanez
the early 1980s, his left-footed 

Gue!it Columnist 
soccer-style kick resulted in prob­ably our fondest moment and memory in Notre Dame football. llis being, however, repre­sents somnthing much larger that Notre Dame students and alumni aspire to achieve. 
I've never written a tribute like this before, but I came across the news article that announced Harry's passing on the Notre Dame football website while I was surfing earlier today. I was moved at the news, not only because of that moment now seared into my mem­ory, but also of the life Harry lived while at Notre Dame and after leaving. I don't consider myself a rah-rah, win­at-any-cost alum. I have simple needs and desires-that the Irish play well. ND wins and ND loses, and the sun still rises in the east. 
It is a sunny Saturday afternoon in September 1980. A brisk wind is blow­ing from the south-remember that. Notre Dame Stadium is filled to capaci­ty, around 60,000 in those days, for another dassic battle between the Fightin' Irish and the visiting Michigan Wolverines. The lead changes hands throughout the game. Late in the fourth quarter, Michigan scores what appears to be the game-winning touchdown with 41 seconds left: the score is Michigan 27, ND 26. 
Notre Dame starts on its own 20-yard line. While the rest of the game remains blurry, as are most ND games I've attended or watched on TV. these last seconds weren't. The Hail Mary's just weren't hitting their targets, and one senses the frustration throughout the crowd. An opportune pass interference penalty movPs the ball to midfield. A few plays later, the ball is on the Michigan 34-yard line and four seconds remain on the clock. Coach Dan Devine sends Harry Olivm into the game to attempt a seemingly impossi­ble 51-yard field goal into the brisk wind. 
Harry Oliver never became a celebri­ty. He lived in Grace Hall, which, along with Flanner, was a dorm at the time. lie attended elasses like the rest of us and never called attention to himself even with his new-found fame. He had respectable numbers with the football team. He was humble in accepting the spotlight that was suddenly thrust in his face after "the kick." And like so many of ND's student-athletes. did not pursue a career in professional sports. 
A mechanical engineering major, he went on to work as an engineer in the 
construction business and became a 
senior estimator and project manager 
at a construction firm in Cincinnati. 
Many of his projects were geared 
towards charitable organizations and 
schools in southern Ohio, according to 
Pete LaFleur, who wrote the artide on 
the Notre Dame football website. 
Back in the sophomore section, and throughout the stadium. the crowd is hushed and all eyes are focused on this one guy, this one player who has been called upon to carry the weight of the game and all the Notre Dame legends on his shoulders. Well, on his kicking leg anyway. The ball is snapped. Harry kicks and ther.e is a scramble at the line of scrimmage. The ball sails through the air and heads toward the uprights. Because of the confusion on the field, and the faet that we're wit­nessing this moment from the north end of the stadium, it is difficult to tell whether the football made it over the crossbar. 
To this day, many who attended the game say that just before Harry kicks tho ball, the brisk 15 mile-per-hour wind that wreaked havo!: throughout the game suddenly went silent. Even the late Michigan coaeh Bo Schembechler "daimed until the day he died that the wind 
stopped right before Harry's kick" according to former ND coach Gerry Faust. The leg­ends would later say that the fans at that end of the field sucked air, while those of us at the north end blew fiercely to help the ball over. I guess we all wanted to feel we had a hand in the outcome of the game. 
The silence of those four seconds that seemed to last forever was broken by a growing roar coming from the south end of Notre Dame Stadium as the field oflicials performed their imperson­

ations of "Touchdown Jesus." The kick 
was good! Pure, unadulterated joy 
broke out throughout the stadium. 
Someone in the upper levels of our sec­
tion lost his or her balance and the 
entire sophomore section collapsed on 
itself, row by row. Thankfully there 
were no casualties and the celebrations 
continued with a mad dash of students 
and fans charging onto the field. 
"Michigan 27. Notre Dame 26, GOD 
3." That's how the banner headline 
from the University of Michigan news­
papnr read the following Monday. 
God calls on all of us to face ehal­
lenges daily. Some great, some small. 
but all with the potential to impact 
lives, many or fPw. These challenges 
manifest themselves in the dassroom, 
on the playing liPid. at Sacred Heart, 
with family, or in the community. 
When we )nave Notre Dame, we are 
charged to go out and make contribu­
tions to improve God's world. 
I don't know that Ilarry Oliver ever knew what the kick meant to the thou­sands of Notre Dame fans who were witnesses to that special moment on tho field. And he probably nevnr fully appreciated the impact in pursuing his calling with the construction company in Ohio. But countless numbers of school children. workers, and those less fortunate will benefit for years to come from him sharing his talent with us. Great things can be accomplished 
in just 47 years. 
As Notre Dame begins another 
academic year and the football 
season is again upon us, I 
wish that current students 
will experience a Harry 
Oliver moment seared 
into their memories like 
many graduates before 
and since "the kick", 
moments that inspire 
us to take actions 
that have positive 
influences in other 
people's lives, 
moments that make 
Notre Dame special 
even in the midst of 
her shortcomings. 
I also hope that 
each of us accepts 
the challenges God 
calls on us to bear and 
for which Our Lady's 
University prepan~s us. 
And that we accept those 
challnngPs with the grace 
and humility as llarry did that 

day in Septnmber, during his life 
at NO and beyond. 
I never met Harry Oliver: I only knew about him from the game. But like everyone special in my life, he gave me a moment that can never be taken away and left us an example of a life worthy of imitation. And I pray that I am a better person for it. Hest in peace, Harry. 
And thanks for the memory. 
Eduardo Magallanez is an alumnus from the Class of 1983. lie can be contacted at lalomag@netzero.net. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
News Scene Karen Langley Chris McGrady Jenn Metz Viewpoint 
Is it safe to live off campus? 
Allen Murphy Michelle Johnson A positive attitude won't solve all of 
Graphics your problems. but it will annqy 
enough people to be worth the e.fJort.
Matt Hudson 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Sports 

at www.ndsmcobserver.com Herm Albright 
Jay Fitzpatrick 
author 
Greg Arbogast Kate Arnold 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 4, 2007 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Keep fighting ordinance 
In response to Andrea Laidman's attack on the United States of America, entitled "You gotta fight for your right" (Sept. 3). I first must point out that Osama Bin Laden, Jane Fonda and Hugo Chavez wero all political science and peace studies majors so I simply can't help but question whether Andrea is also a terrorist or simply a misguided youth caught up in a society currently dictated by the liberal media. 
As far as the content of her (mostly made up) argument, Notro Dame students are very active in the world around them, from local volunteer­ing all over South Bend (over 300,000 hours of service per year), to traveling to D.C. every year to protest the slaughter of innocent children, also known as abortion, and even raising awareness for international issues such as the genocide in Darfur (special shout out to the kids who made me sign that Darfur banner in the dining hall). 
Andrea claims that terrorists are being held without charge at Gitmo -of course they are being held without charge, they are terrorists! You would see boat loads of student activism if the government weren't detaining terrorists. The reason you see 2,400 students protesting laws targeting students is because we are all students. You don't see a ton of Notre Dame kids rising up against Guantanamo Bay detentions because only a handful of Notre Dame students are ter­rorists. IfI were a terrorist, I would obviously be as upset about wiring tapping as Andrea is. 
The reason students are so upset about the ordinance is because this is supposed to be col­lege. There are at least 2,400 students who understand that the freedom to choose whether or not they wish to drink is a part of college (and America for that matter). I encourage all stu­dents to continue respectfully fighting the South Bend ordinance and ask that you all keep defending America from the terrorists, wherever they may lie. 
Tom Martin 
sentor 
Siegfried Hall Sept. 4 

Bum_per sticker defense 
It was with humor and pride that I read the viewpoint regard­ing the Bush/Cheney bumper sticker that closes out the video highlighting the class of 2011. The writers, while heralding the ethnic diversity showcased in the video, disdainfully lament the impression left that Notre Dame may be regarded as endorsing the current administration. What about political diversity? As the owner and driver of the vehicle in question, I should note that the car has transported to cam­pus not one, but two students who embrace decidedly opposing political viewpoints from that of their parents. Ours continues to be a household where members are encouraged to discuss vary­ing viewpoints and welcomes and accepts political differences. 

Diversity calls for one to step out­side previously held considera­tions and assumptions. The inclusion of the bumper sticker in the video, if notable at all, should be seen as an indication of the diversity present on cam­pus, not as an indication of its absence. The University of Notre Dame fosters a climate of critical epistemology and it saddens me that the writers have seemingly lost that open-mindedness and choose to make their own politi­cal statement by zeroing in on a small, and what could have been an unremarkabie, inclusion on the video. 
Donna Shelton Yorktown, Va Sept. 4 

U-WIRE 
New technology plays key role in 2008 election 
Kisses are planted on the foreheads of infants, the hands of stern fathers are shaken and staged photographs of candi­dates at blue-collar barbecues are taken as part of the traditional campaign trail for the presidency of the United States. Nicolas Persac But as the 2008 election approach­
The Daily 

es, candidates on 
Reveille

both sides of the aisle must embrace new technologies to maximize their cam­paign's success. 
James Garand, political science professor at Louisiana State University, said candi­dates are looking to technological develop­ments for new campaign strategies. 
"At the beginning of every campaign, particularly in recent years, candidates and the political consultants who advise them do not want to be in the position where they have not been at the forefront of the technology," Garand said 
This year one such obstacle is the rising popularity of voter-to-candidate communi­cation via the Internet. The CNN-YouTube Democratic Party debate, which aired on July 23, allowed people to video record themselves asking candidates questions. CNN and YouTube.com officials selected nearly 70 questions to be viewed and answered by the eight Democratic con­tenders who participated in the debate. The Republican candidate's installment is scheduled to air Sept. 17. 
"This is a new application of the technol­ogy," Garand said. "This opens up a whole set of unpredictable aspects. The possibility of questions and comments being non-tra­ditional becomes much greater." 
Garand said these formats may cause some candidates to be wary of participating in such debates. 
"The YouTube format permits questions coming from regular people, and the possi­bility of new issues coming up is substan­tial, which is of course one of the reasons candidates get nervous," Garand said. "It's one thing ifI'm a candidate and I know members of the new media are going to ask me questions one tl;rrough 10, but it's a little bit more difficult for me to prepare ifI can also get questions 11 through 500." 
According to Reuters, Nielsen Media Research shows the Democratic install­ment of the debates had the highest ratings in the 18 to 34 demographic of any debate broadcast on a cable news network. The 407,000 viewers between ages 18 and 34 broke the previous record in that demo­graphic of 368,000 people viewing the June 3 Manchester, New Hampshire Democratic debate. The New Hampshire debate had a higher total number of viewers, 2.8 million, compared to 2.6 million who watched the CNN-YouTube debate. In the 25 to 54 demographic, only 890,000 viewers watched the CNN-YouTube debate while 
1.1 million watched CNN's New Hampshire debate. 
"We know young people are the least likely to participate in the electoral process and the least likely to vote," Garand said. "In one sense, this is reaching one group of citizens who are usually low-participation [voters]." 
Robert Hogan, associate political science professor, said the content of the CNN­YouTube debate may have drawn the younger crowd. 
The YouTube debate was comical," Hogan said. "Part of the reason people watched was the same reason people watch the Super Bowl. It's not so much the game but the commercials. And in this case it's what sort of nuance way people are going to use to ask questions." 

Hogan said the non-traditional aspects of the debates may cause candidates such as Republican front-runner Mitt Romney to speak out against participating in the next CNN-YouTube debate-in which only two Republican candidates, Arizona Sen. John McCain and Texas Rep. Ron Paul have committed to participate. 
Garand said the user-friendly format of the CNN-YouTube debates opens the demo­cratic process to more people. He said technology broadens participation and is viewed as a democratization of the process. 
"Candidates will try to use available tech­nology as best they can," Garand said. "And whatever that new technology is in 2012 you can rest assured that candidates will use it to try to reach voters that are traditionally not being reached. They will take advantage of the technologies as we develop them." 
This article originally appeared in The New Reveille, the daily campus newspaper at Louisiana State University. 
The views expressed in ths column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE

page 12 
Tuesday, September 4, 2007 

that the "Christian" label consists of far some of Hice's most powerful (and, Jack Johnson; "Lemonade," whose By ANALISE LIPARI more than volumes like "Worship and truthfully, spiritual) songwriting. "Why sweet-without-being-saccharine version Assistant Scene Editor Praise 152" and anthologies of be afraid, no reason ·to hide/ take the of the "life gives you lemons" metaphor 
Gregorian ehanting (despite the genuine chance, put it all on the line/ draw in a is enough to make Oscar the Grouch 
Chris Rice's latest album, "What a merits of both). Christian music cour­deep breath and throw open the door/ crack a smile; and "Tell Me the Story Heart Is Beating For," is so deleetably tesy of Chris Rice is both spiritual and 'Cause that's what a heart is beating /\gain," the album's final song, a down-endearing that repeated listening is not accessible -he expands on traditional for," the chorus goes, right lovely opus devoted to only recommended, but delightfully themes and broadens their message, gently urging listeners the unending power of the inevitable. The most recent in the coupling their meaning with catchy, to simply be open to the 'What a Heart Is Gospel narrative. "Now Christian musician's library, "What a smart lyrics and doing it all in a way transformative power plunge/ With his guilty sins/
Beating For' is that 
Ilnart Is Beating For" is more than a that feels more peaceful than preachy. of love. It's a refreshing In the cleansing waves/
rare breed of

shiny pop eonfeetion, touching on issues What ultimately results is a highly suc­message, and an unex­Wash his sins away/ Oh, of faith and substance with a lyrical, cessful crossover album, appealing to pectedly welcome one crossover album -happy day," Hice sings in the poetic feel. both pop/roek listeners and fans of in modern times of chorus, crnating a beautil'ul
it attracts new 
i\11 right, freeze. Bnfore any main­Christian musieians like Matt Hedman anger, stress and anxi­image of salvation without
listeners at no
stream music fan stops reading their and Stephen Curtis Chapman. ety. pushing his listeners too far. nnwspapnr in annoyanee, rnst assured The album opens with "So Mueh for Further on, Hice expense to its The iTunes version of 
What a Heart Is Beating For 
Chris Rice Released by: Sony Recommended Tracks: So Much for My Sad Song, What a Heart Is Beating For 
My Sad Song," a sweet muses more seriously "What a Heart Is Beating
origina/fans.

little ditty about a sour on the outside world For" adds two bonus tracks: mood turned right. With with "You Don't Ilave to "Kids /\gain," Hice's spunky elements of piano, Yell," a subtle indictment of the talking ode to the joys ol' childhood, and "Baby trumpet and electric heads and vitriol in today's media. Take Your Bow," a gentle song ol' good­guitar, Rice creates a Hather than condemning, however, Rice bye. Both are fine additions, but the more complex track presumes a real goodness in his fellow album would be just as good without than the admittedly cute man by asking this hyperactive world to them. subject matter might just take a deep breath. With a straight­"What a Heart Is Beating For" is that indicate. forward, understated rhythm that cou­rare breed ol' crossover album -it 
Immediately following ples well with its message, "You Don't attracts nnw listeners at no expense to is the title track, "What Have to Yell" is a successful version of its original fans, and holds true to its a Heart Is Beating For," the multifaceted modern protest song. roots without l'eeling restricted by a sweeping creation Other notable tracks include "Here them. whose unassuming Come Those Eyes," with Hice sounding beginning gives way to something like a rockabilly version of Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
By TAE ANDREWS Scene Ediror 
Znitgnist, (n.) the gnnnral intnllectual, moral and cultural dimatn of an era. In othnr words, the word "znitg-nist" moans Llw spirit of tlw timns. If "Znitgnist," tho latest album from the nnwly-roformnd Smashing-Pumpkins. is indnnd the spirit of thesn timns, what a dark and turbulnnt ag-e we livn in. 
"Zeitg-eist" fnaturns a lot of political tur­moil, dissent, disquiet and discontnnt, plus a slow of heavy guitars and slam­ming drum boats. The Pumpkins h<tvn craft1HI a moody, brooding album which convnys thn malaisn and mistrust of our times in the light of the current political lands1:ape. On an album featuring tracks with such names as the apocalyptic "Doomsday Clock," "United States," "For God and Country" and "Pomp and Circumstances," there can be no mistak­ing the highly charged political rhetorie splashed across all I 3 tracks of "Znitgeist." 
Perhaps singer and frontman extraordi­naire Billy Corgan and Co. would havn been better off releasing this album a decade earlier, when they could actually lay daim to existing as one of the signa­ture alternative sounds of the 1 <J90s. Beyond just the nature of the album, them's the issue of whether or not these latest hard rockers are, in fact, the alternative band broke up in 2000, leav­his stubbornness and unwillingness to ing the Pumpkins in rotting shards. give up. 
The new Smashing Pumpkins might be The band still has its signature sound bettor named The Smashed Pumpkins, as and hard-rocking, rebellious nature, the new Pumpkins consist of only singer which will inspire large amounl'i of head­and guitarist Billy Corgan and drummer banging and fist-pumping from its listen-Jimmy Chamberlin. ers. The f'irst single Original band members "Tarantula," in particular, has guitarist/vocalist James a l'resh, ndgy sound and l'ea­Jha and bassist/vocalist The new Smashing tures a catchy guitar romp. D'arcy Wn'ltzky dedined Pumpkins might be The melaneholy "That's the to help reform the Way (My Love Is)" shows a
better named The
Smashing Pumpkins for ram glimpse ol' Billy Corgan's another go-around, so Smashed Pumpkins, softer side and is vaguely these new Pumpkins fea­as the new reminiscent ol' the earlier ture a much different, Pumpkins smash single
Pumpkins consist of
stripped-down sound, "IIJ71J." The second single oil' somewhat akin in com­only singer and the album, "Doomsday Clock," 

Zeitgest 
The Smashing Pumpkins Released by: Martha's Music I Reprise Recommended Tracks: Doomsday Clock, Tarantula, United States 

Smashing Pumpkins. position il' not nature to guitarist Bill Corgan is every bit at l'orcboding and The band exploded the guitar-and-drums­doom-and-gloomy as you'd
and drummer 

onto the i\rnerican musie only musical approach of expect it to be.
Jimmy Chamberlin.
scene with the hit doublf~ The Whito Stripes. The Smashing Pumpkins, album "Mellon Collie and That boing said, the despite their many previous the Infinitn Sadness." The Smashing Pumpkins are successes and dwindling num­album debuted at No. 1 still the Smashing Pumpkins, replete with bers, have put a hungry, aggressive touch on the Billboard Charts in the inimitable Billy Corgan, whose on "Zeitgeist" that smacks not of has-bn1m October of 1995. From shaved, pale gourd and somewhat rock star haeks trying to redaim pnwious there the Smashing screechy singing voice retain very much glory, but rather of an up-and-corning, Pumpkins went on to sell their same !lair from years of Pumpkins still-trying-to-make-it g-arag-e band. The over 18 million albums past. The eclectic and strong-willed l'ront­Smashing Pumpkins have returned, and and were one of the most man, for better or worse, remains very tlwy paint a spiritod, if dark, picture of popular and best-selling much the creative l'orce and the man our times with "Zoitgnist." bands of tlw decade. behind the music for the band, and the 
Unfortunat1~ly, tho Pumpkins still exist today mainly due to Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew I @nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, September 4, 2007 
page 13 

falters, and his bandmates -guitarist Than Today," Harper's well-known Jason Yates, drummer Oliver Charles, falsetto makes an appearance for one bassist Juan Nelson, keyboard player of the more stirring tracks on the Leon Mobley and percussionist Leon album. Mobley -provide stellar backup. The The beauty of the album lies in its album has the gritty feel of a live per­diversity and the musical honesty that formance, but with the drips from every song. audio quality of a studio Every lyric is genuine and recording. full of emotion, the guitar 
It's the best of both The beauty of chords echo with mean­worlds. ing, and the bass line
[Lifeline] lies in its 

The album opens with moves forward with confi­the addictive track diversity and the dence. "Fight Outta You," one musical honesty that Perhaps the most of the Harper-esque sig­impressive song on the
drops from every

nature tracks that bor­album is the instrumental ders on being an song. Every lyric is "Paris Sunrise #7," where anthem. Harper's lyri­genuine and full of Harper's signature slide cal prowess shines guitar plays beautifully.
emotion.

through, urging listen­The track even "sounds" ers "to not let them like a sunrise -progress­take the fight out of ing forward more quickly you." until the activity of daybreak is por­
"Needed You Tonight" is a tribute to trayed in the pace of the song. legends of the past, with the type of The album is a striking success, par­soulful, R&B sound that has come to be ticularly in the modern music land­expected from Harper. The song show­scape. The genuine nature of the cases Harper's moving voice. album is a breath of fresh air in a stale 
The sixth track, "Say You Will," music scene, and "Lifeline" proves to sounds like the echoes of a Sunday be a complete success. church service, and will have the lis­teners tapping their toes to the beat. Contact Chris McGrady at Followed by the morose "Younger cmcgradl @nd.edu 
Photo courtesy of files.ducat.kz 

Avril Lavigne, female vocalist and artist behind pop-hit "Girlfriend," has taken the lead in the race to be the most annoying tune on the airwaves. 
of her in junior high? playing Hinder all Christmas break." I 
So this summer I entered into yet must have angered the radio gods with another battle with my favorite Top 40 my resistance to their master plan of radio station. Every time I got in the killing all enjoyment from the radio. car, I would hear the shouts of "Hey, Surely they heard my mental footnote hey, you, you!" until! switched to rap or because what would you suppose was soft rock. playing on the Top 40 station a minute 
Anything but Avril. and half after I turned it from Avril? 
One day, my patience was wearing That's right-"Lips of an Angel." thin as yet again, "Girlfriend" was play­You've got to be kidding me. ing as soon as I turned on the car for my drive home from work. I quickly The views expressed in the Inside turned thn station, but then made a Column are those ofthe author and not tragic mistake. I thought to myself, necessarily those c~f The Observer. "This reminds me of when they kept Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd. edu 
By CHRIS MCGRADY Assistant Scene Editor 
Ben llarper is undeniably one of the premier musical talents in the modern popular scene. His skills resonate through every high and low of his grainy tenor voice, jump down the strings of his signature Weissenborn guitar, and settle softly, but strikingly, on the ears of his listeners. 
Ben Harper was born in Claremont, Calif., and has been playing the guitar since he was a child. He released his first LP, "Pleasure and Pain," as a joint effort with folk guitarist Tom Freund. 
"Fight For Your Mind," released in 1995, became a college radio favorite and established Harper's position in the music scene. Collectively, Harper has released 11 albums and has climbed as high as No. 7 on the Billboard Music 200. Perhaps Harper's most well-known track is "Steal My Kisses," from his 1999 album "Burn To Shine." 
In Harper's most recent effort, "Lifeline," collaboration with his band The Innocent Criminals, Harper tosses a life preserver to the average listener drowning in the sea of musical homo­geneity. 
The album, released by Virgin 
Records America, was 
Lifeline 

Ben Harper and the Innocent Criminals Released by: Virgin Records America Recommended Tracks: Say You Will, Paris Sunrise #7, Fight Outta You 
recorded in seven days in Paris. Perhaps more impressively, the album went straight from the instruments to analog tape, sans digital enhancement. For some musicians, this would be a sure recipe for dis­aster. With Harper, however, the transition works perfectly in his favor. 
His soulful voice, with surprising range, never 
By CASSIE BELEK Assistant Scene Editor 
There arn always those songs that you love at first. but then the radio stations ruin thnm by playing them over and over again. Eventually happy feelings toward those hot new singles 

cheating lover yearning for someone other than his current squeeze. 
It's not exactly what I want to be singing along to on the radio. 
I never thought I could hate a song as. much as "Lips of an Angel" until this summer -the summer of "Girlfriend." Every time Avril Lavigne releases a sin­
gle. the radio stations feel the 

thought it was pleasant and didn't fnnl the urgn to turn the dial to look for anything bntter. 
However. as time progressed, the radio stations began playing it nonstop. Every timn I turlll~d on the radio, "Lips of an Angel" would be playing. 
At first I laughed about it, but in the end I nmbraced that oh-so-familiar fool­ing of hatred toward both the song and !Iinder. A dose examination of the lyrics reveals that this "love song" is about a vanish into a bottomless pit or need to overplay her songs hatred. and you're left won­more than any other artist's. dnring how you ever liked the Don't get me started on my songs in the first place. dislike for "Sk8er Boi" or ''I'm 
I find this particularly prob­With You." lematic when I'm home dur­I 'II admit that I loved ing breaks because that's "Girlfriend" at first. I was still when I actually listen to the abroad in Spain so I was able radio while driving around to listen to the song at my dis­town. Last Christmas, I devel­cretion. I thought it was fun oped a passionate loathing for and I could totally see it being Hinder's "Lips of an Angel." I in "Bring it On 5: It's Already never really loved it, but Been Brought IV Times." 
Turns out, it's already been 
featured in a preview for the early Oscar front-runner "Bratz: The Movie" (which happens to be the only movie preview that's ever been booed at a movie I've attended). 
Eventually the song wore on my nerves. I grew tired of Avril's "Hey, hey, you, you!'"s and her continual girl­bashing. I mean, does Avril hate every other female on the planet except for herself? Did the popular girls make fun 
r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 4, 2007 
MLB -AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Mariners pull within a game in Wild Card 
Sabathia continues Indians' dominance of Twins; Pena hits 35th homerun to lead Devil Rays over Orioles 
card lead to one game. win­
Associated l'ress 
ning for the llrst time since it 

NHW YOHK-Tho video sys­beat Texas 4-2 on Aug. 24. tl~m wasn't working very well. "I can sleep tonight," man­so Iehiro Suzuki didn't get to ager John McLaren said. study any of' Hog1~r Cl1nnens' "That's a start." outings. Suzuki homered in the third 
lin still managed to do pretty inning to reach 200 hits for wnll against a banged-up the s1wenth eonseeutive sea­Hoeket. son, tying tho AL mark. lie 
Suzuki had three hits off' also singled twice against Clemens to equal another Clemens to raise his eareer record. F1~lix llornandez average against the right-han­pitched seven sharp innings dl~r to .217 (5-for-23). and the Marirwrs boat the New "Two-hundred hits is always York Yanknns 7-I Monday in special for me, no matter what tlw opener of' a crucial series. the situation." Suzuki said 
"I was very anxious. The through a translator. "But I first tinw in my seven-ynar did have the plus also today of earner that I thought I might getting a win after nine con­say sonwthing moan to Carl secutive losses and getting it llamilton, our video coordina­off of Hoger Clemens." tor," Suzuki cracked. 
Clemons (6-61 allowed night Indians 5, Twins 0 hits and five runs in four If' the Cleveland Indians innings, and left to get an MHI avoid a colossal collapse and exam on his balky right elbow finish with the AL Central title bnf"oro the clubhouse opened at the end of this month, they after the loss. can count their mastery of 
"First three innings it was a Johan Santana and the manageable situation for him Minnesota Twins as one of the and then it started to tighten reasons for the success. games. The guys in the lineup do," "I'm fine." up," Yankees manager Joe C.C. Sabathia threw eight Cleveland is 12-4 against Sabathia said. "They're doing Pena's drive off Jim lloey (1­Torre said. "llopel'ully it's just shutout innings, and the Minnesota and 5-0 against the a great job, and I just go out 4) struck an overhanging cat­sorm,;thing that needs a little Indians topped Santana and reigning AL Cy Young Award and try to focus on their line­walk and gave Tampa Bay a 6­rest. the Twins yet once more with winner this year. up." 4 lead. Pena's home-run total 
Seattle ended its season­a on Monday that extended "He's a great pitcher, one of Devil Rays 9, Orioles 7 is one more than Jose Canseco worst nine-game losing streak their lead over the defending the best in the game," Indians Carlos Pena spent most of (1999) and current Orioles and trimmed New York's wild-division champs to 10 1/2 manager Eric Wedge said. last season toiling in the designated hitter Aubrey lluff 
"Fortunately for us, we had minors for the New York (2003) hit for the Dnvil Hays. our guy out there who is also Yankees and Boston Red Sox. "That ball was crushed," one of the best in the game." One year, he's become the one Devil Hays manager Joe 
The last time a Twins pitcher of the top power hitters in Maddon said. "lie got us going went 0-5 in one season against Tampa Bay's short history. again. Another big knock." the same opponent was 1974, Pena hit his team-record James Shields (11-8) gave up when Joe Decker lost five 35th homer, a tiebreaking two­four runs -one earned -and straight to the Oakland run drive in a three-run sev­seven hits in seven innings for Athletics. Ryan Garko home­enth inning that helped the the Devil Rays, who have won red, and each of the three bat­Devil Rays overcome a four­nine of 11. Delmon Young had ters walked by the left-hander run deficit and beat the three HBis, including a run­scored. Santana (14-11) gave Baltimore Orioles Monday scoring double in the seventh. up six hits and four runs in six night. Akinori Iwamura added a two­innings, and he struck out "It's pretty cool," Pen a said. run homer in the eighth off three. ''I'm extremely excited. At Brian Burres that made it 9-4. 
"It's never a fun at-bat," heart, I'm just a kid playing Hamon Hernandez hit a Garko said. "When we see the baseball still." three-run homer in the ninth schedule coming up we all The Devil Hays almost off AI Reyes. kind of roll our eyes and say, missed out on Pena, who Baltimore has lost 12 of 13 'Here he comes again.' I think, signed as a free agent with -getting outscored 128-56 ­though, the more you see a Tampa Bay during the offsea­and is just three games ahead pitcher -no matter how good son. The only reason he made of the Devil Hays for fourth his stuff is -the more ready the opening-day roster was place in the AL East. Tampa you are to face him." because Greg Norton hurt his Bay has finished last in all but 
Sabathia (16-7) bested knee at the end of spring one of its first nine years -it Santana for the second time in training. was fourth in 2004. a week. He gave up six hits "I don't take it for granted," "It's usually not one thing and one walk while striking Pena said. that's your downfall," Orioles out six in his ninth straight Pena avoided a potential manager Dave Trembley said. start with two runs allowed or injury earlier in the game "It's a combination of things, fewer. Sabathia is 4-1 with a when he was hit on the helmet but I would say tonight, the 
1.51 EHA against the Twins above the right ear by a Hocky pitching was probably a lot 
this year. · Cherry pitch in the fifth. more predominant than any­"I don't have to face him. "It hurt a lot," Pen a said. thing else." 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 J.m. at the Notre Dame oflice, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES -needed for southside elementary school. Located near Erskine Golf Course on Miami St. $35/per game. Call athletic director at 574-291-4200. 
Tutor for Calculus 3. Fee nego­liable. Call 574-276-8299. 

FoR SALE 
Condo For Sale 2 br twnhse w sun-room great SB neighborhood $93,000 call 269-445-2765. 

FOR SALE-4BR. 2.5 Bath, 2800 SF Fin bsmt. 3 mi to NO. $217,500 
243-1953 Prudential One Realty Lois McKinley 574-235-3278 (3BR, Smin to airport-20min. to NO $79,800) 3BR at! garage-4min to NO 
$48,000. 
2 bdrm/1 bath condo. Nice area. 4 miles from carnpus. $74,900. Call Meredith, Milligan Real Estate 220-9817. 


FOR RENT 
LODGING FOR FOOTBALL GAMES Visit www.amishcountrybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and Breakfast Accommodations. Non-smoking, Private Baths, Full Breakfasts. 
House for rent. Walk to Campus. 3bdr. Washer/dryer, Landlord does yardwork. 
$750/mo. 574-250-1266. 
Furn. apt., sleeps 4 rnaybe 6. NO home games. Right next to NO. 
574-273-3030 ask for Pat. 
Bed & Breakfast lodging w/alum family for ND home games. Great rates & nice accommodations. 574· 243-2628. 
Furnished house for rent. 15 min. to NO. 2BR, 6 acres 1/4 mile to lake. Garne wkends or whole year. Students welcome. 574-288-2726. 
4BR ranch. Walk to NO. Fenced back yard. Appliances incl. 1219 N. Twyckenham. $936/mo. 574-231­0967. 
1 or 2 bdrm. apt. Quiet neighbor­hood. 1 mi to NO. Laundry included. $400/mo. Call574-532-8718. Homes for 08-09. 4-6 bedrooms. Walk to NO. 574-876-7341. For Football weekends, call574-532­1408. 


TICKETS 

WANTED -ND FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE HELP! 
574-251-1570 FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. ALL HOME GAMES. 
574-232-0964. www. victorytickets.com NO tickets for sale. Best Prices. 57 4-288-2726. 
PERSONAL 
LASER CREATIONS Unique Products Thru Laser Technology. Laser etched logo gifts, signs. award plaques, name tags, rubber stamps, glass etching, etc. Call Jack 
574-273-8662 or email: lasercr@comcast.net 
Babysitting: CollegeSitter.com is a new site which connects NO student babysitters with area families. Student sitters looking for babysit-ling work should visit CollegeSitter.com/student/ to fill out their FREE profile. 






OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, September 4, 2007 
Major League Baseball 
American League East 

team  record  perc.  last 10  
Boston  83-55  .601  6·4  
New York  76-62  .551  5·5  
Toronto  70-67  .511  6·4  
Baltimore  59-77  .434  1·9  
Tampa Bay  57-81  .413  8-2  

American League Central 

team record perc. last 10 Cleveland 79-58 .577 9·1 Detroit 73-64 .533 5·5 Minnesota 69·69 .500 4·6 Kansas City 62-75 . .453 5·5 Chicago 58-79 .423 2·8 
American League West 

team record perc. last 10 Los Angeles 80·56 .588 6·4 Seattle 74·62 .544 1·9 Oakland 68·70 .493 4-6 Texas 63-74 .460 7-3 
National League East 

team record perc. last 10 New York 77-60 .562 5-5 Philadelphia 72-65 .526 6-4 Atlanta 70·68 .507 4-6 Washington 61-77 .442 3-7 Florida 60-78 .435 3-7 
National League Central 

team record perc. last 10 Chicago 70-66 .515 5·5 Milwaukee 69-68 .504 4-6 St. louis 67-67 .500 6-4 Cintinnali 62-76 .449 4-6 Houston 62-76 .449 5·5 PiHsburgh 60-77 .436 4-6 
National League West 

team record perc. last 10 San Diego 76-61 .555 7-3 Arizona 76-63 .547 4-6 los Angeles 12·65 .526 6-4 Colorado 71-66 .518 7-3 San Francisco 62-76 .449 6·4 
Preseason Division I NCAA Men's Soccer 
team 2006 record 

1 UCSB 17-7-0 2 UClA 14-6-4 3 Wake Forest 18·3·4 4 Duke 18-4-1 5 Virginia 17·4·1 6 Santa Clara 13-5-5 7 Indiana 15·5·2 8 SMU 17-2-4 9 Maryland 16·5·1 10 NOTRE DAME 15-6-2 11 Cal 13·6·1 12 Clemson 13-5-2 13 West Virginia 15·3·3 14 Northwestern 14-8-0 15 New Mexico 14·4-3 16 North Carolina 11·6-3 17 St. John's 14·6·2 18 Washington 13-7-1 19 lehigh 15·2·3 20 Towson 15·2·3 21 Old Dominion 14·6·2 22 Saint louis 13-5-2 23 UNC Greensboro 16·8·1 24 Harvard 14·5·0 25 UConn 10-7-2 
GB 
7.0 12.5 23.0 26.0 
GB 
6.0 
10.5 
17.0 
21.0 
GB 
6.0 
13.0 
17.5 
GB 
5.0 7.5 16.5 17.5 
GB 
1.5 2.0 9.0 9.0 
10~5 
GB 
1.0 4.0 5.0 1U 

previous 
1 2 3 5 4 7 9 
. 11 10 6 12 13 18 8 22 1.9 
23 20 
15 16 14 21 17 24 NR 


around the dial 
TENNIS Day 5 U.S. Open 
11:00 a.m., USA 
7:00 p.m., USA 

CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
PGA TouR 
Associated Press 

NORTON, Mass.-Phil Mickelson's return to Beantown was sweeter than he ever imagined. 
He was sitting in a suite at Fenway Park on Saturday night when Boston Red Sox rookie Clay Buchholz threw a no-hitter. And on a Labor Day fmish that brought play­off atmosphere to the PGA Tour, Lefty pitched a gem of his own. 
With thousands of fans standing six-deep behind the greens, and hundreds more camped out in front of video boards, Mickelson blew away Tiger Woods with a flawless front nine and held him ofT down the stretch to win the Deutsche Bank Championship, a sign that Lefty is healthy enough to again challenge the world's No. 1 player. 
"I had a lot of fun -not just today, this whole week," said Mickelson, who closed with a S-under 66 for a two-shot victory Monday. "We went and saw the no-hitter in Fenway Park. How often does that happen?" 
More often than Mickelson going head-to-head in the final round against Woods and winning the tourna­ment. 
That was a first. 
But the way he played all week, including the first two rounds with Woods and Vijay Singh, it might not be 
IN BRIEF 

Elbow injury may keep
Clemens out for a time 
NEW YORK -Roger Clemens got banged up by the Seattle Mariners, and then quickly left the clubhouse after the Yankees' 7-1 loss on Monday to get an MRI exam on his balky right elbow. 
The 45-year-old Clemens, who allowed five runs and eight hits in four innings to lose for the first time since July 28 at Baltimore, felt his elbow tighten up during the game, manager Joe Torre said. 
"First three innings it was a man­ageable situation for him and then it started to tighten up," Torre said. "Hopefully it's just something that needs a little rest." 
Torre was noncommittal about whether Clemens would remain on schedule in the rotation. His next start would likely be Sunday at Kansas City. 
"For safety sake, we may skip a turn but it all depends on what the tests show," Torre said. 
the last. 

"This is what we hoped the summer would be," swing coach Butch Harmon said from Las Vegas. "And if it hadn't have been for the hand injury, it would have been." 
It was the first victory for Mickelson since The Players Championship in May, when he looked ready to make another run at Woods. Then he injured his left wrist that cost him his summer, and only recently has Mickelson been able to swing without flinching. 
The pain on this Labor Day belonged to Woods. 
He couldn't make a putt on the front nine, and couldn't deliver enough clutch putts 
page 15 

while trying to make up ground on the final holes. He wound up with a 67 despite taking 32 putts, which left him tied for second with Arron Oberholser (69) and Brett Wetterich (70), who played in the final group of what seemed like a Nationwide Tour gallery. 
The buzz outside Beantown was on the biggest names in golf, and Mickelson relished this victo­ry. 
"For 10 years I've strug­gled against Tiger," Mickelson said. "This sure feels great to go head-to­head ... and over the last five or six holes when he's mak­ing a run, it was fun to match him with birdies." 
Frye to start as Brown's 
quarterback over Quinn 
BEREA, Ohio -lhe suspense is over. 01arlie Frye will start at quarterback for Oeveland's season opener Sunday against the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
Frye, who started 13 games last year, battled in training camp to keep his job after coach Romeo Crennel turned tl1e starting position into an open competition. After offSeason workouts and minicamps, Frye entered training camp slightly behind Derek Anderson. 
But Frye outperformed Anderson during preseason games and directed one touch­down drive against the Denver Broncos. Anderson produced no touchdowns when he led the offen..<>e during preseason games. 
Frye said he's made strides since last sea'illn. 
"I think I'm a lot more poised and my game management is better," Frye said. "It comes from experience and being pushed by other guys. You make sacrifices and th~ sacrifices end up helping your game out. 

Strahan reports to Giants 
after five week holdout 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -Seven­time Pro Bowl defensive end Michael Strahan reported to the New York Giants on Monday, six days before the season opener. 
Ending a holdout that may cost him more than $500,000 in fmes, Strahan arrived unobserved at Giants Stadium around 4 p.m., handled some paper­work and met with general manager Jerry Reese and coach Tom Coughlin. He also took a physical and left after 45 minutes, not making himself avail­able for comment. 
The 35-year-old Strahan, who held out for more than five weeks and missed all four preseason games while deciding whether to play a 15th season or retire, will practice on Tuesday. 
"It's all behind us," Reese said, sit­ting in his car beneath Giants Stadium. "We're moving forward and getting ready for Dallas." 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 4, 2007 
MLB-NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Martinez gets 3,000th strikeout in return from DL 
M·cCann, Braves send Phillies to third straight loss; Snell throws seven strong innings to beat Cardinals 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI-Working with 
a fastball that was past its 
primn, l'ndro Martinez made a 
vintage eomnbaek. 
Back on the mound for the lirst timn in almost a year. the right-hander got his 3,000lh earenr strikeout Monday and led tho rnsurgent New York Mots to a 10-4 win over the Cincinnati Hmls. 
A victory and a little bit of 
history, too. 
"Can't ask for anything bet­
ter than that." manager Willie 
Handolph said. "llo's amazing. 
I shouldn't even be surprised, 
rnally. Pndro was superb." 
Martinez (1-0l had major shoulder surgery last Oct. 5. lin returned after just four rnhabilitation appearances in tho minors, lnaving some ques­tions about his readiness. The Mots dncidnd to put him on a 75-piteh limit that left him no margin for error to got through livn innings and get a win. 
Somehow, he managed. 
Martinez threw 76 pitches while limiting the Heds to three runs and five hits in five innings. Four of his pitches came on an intentional walk. With two runners aboard in the fifth, Martinez got Adam Dunn -the last batter he'd get to face -to hit into a rally­killing groundout. 
Then, he pumped his fist. 
"Indescribable," the three­time Cy Young winner said. "So far, so good. It was good enough. I did what I was sup­posed to do. I got 75 pitches in. I gave my team an opportunity. I felt I settled down after the first inning and got everything in control again." 
His performance helped the NL East leaders get control of their division again, increasing their lead to five games over Philadelphia. The lead was down to only two games last week, when the allure of adding a pitcher with playoff experience became too much to resist. 
Martinez didn't disappoint. 
"That's Pedro, and he's going to get better," catcher Paul Lo Duca said. 
Even though the Reds didn't do much against Martinez, they could see he had a long way to go. 
"lie didn't look like he had his old stuff, and I wouldn't expect him to," said first base­man Scott Cormier (2-4) struck out five 


with one walk in his second 
straight win. 
"I feel like I'm where I need 
to be," Cormier said. "You're 
not always going to have the 
best outing of your life, but it 
feels good to get a win today." 
Brian McCann hit a two-run 
double in a three-run fourth 
inning as the Braves snapped a 
three-game losing streak and 
avoided falling to .500 for the 
first time since June 24. 
Peter Moylan, Manny Acosta, Tyler Yates and Rafael Soriano combined to pitch 3 1/3 hitless innings for Atlanta. 
Moyer struck out seven but gave up nine hits in 5 2/3 innings. He walked two batters while suffering his first loss in three starts against Atlanta this season. 
The Phillies took a 1-0 lead 
in the fourth when Utley dou­
bled to right and scored on Pat 
Burrell's single to left. 
Philadelphia's only other serious threat came in the sixth, when Burrell popped out to end the inning with runners on first and third. 
"It wasn't our day," Utley said. "We didn't swing the bats very well. ... Playing today's game in warm weather didn't help. The heat wears on you." 
Pirates 11, Cardinals 0 
The last two times Jan Snell has beaten the Cardinals on the road, he's knocked them back to .500. This time, it real­ly had to hurt for St. Louis. 

Snell threw seven scoreless innings to end a six-game road losing streak since winning in St. Louis on April 16, and the Pittsburgh Pirates halted a five-game losing streak, rout­ing Kip Wells on Monday. 
The Cardinals, coming off a three-game sweep over the Reds, entered the day two games back of the Cubs in the NL Central. On Sunday, the defending World Series cham­pions moved above .500 for the first time since April 15. 
Snell sent them back to 6 7­67, just as he evened their record at 6-6 in mid-April. 
"Today was a great start for him," catcher Honny Paulino said. "He was throwing his fastball in and out. He wasn't just throwing it in there, he was making it happen." 
Jack Wilson matched a career high with four hits, including a two-run home run, and had three HB!s as the Pirates emerged from a skid in which they were outscored 35­
13. Paulino and Freddy Sanchez both went 3-for-4 with two HBis. 
Wilson missed a chance to hit for the cycle in the ninth when he lined into a double play, although he said he had­n't been aware until St. Louis catcher Gary Bennett informed him. 
"He goes 'Single, single, dou­ble, home run,'" Wilson said. "I was taking because he had just walked a guy on four pitches, but Bennett is a guy who's so nice he'll give me a first-pitch fastball just to try it. Sure enough." 
The Pirates had 15 hits in 25 at-bats when reliever Andy Cavazos was chased in a five­run fifth that made it 11-0. They scored in each of the first five innings. 
Cardinals pitchers gave up a double-digit run total for the 17th time this season, five of them in games started by Wells (6-16), and dropped back to .500. Wells and Jose Contreras of' the White Sox are tied for the major league lead in loss­es. 
"His biggest problem today was throwing the ball in the middle of the plate, mostly up where guys can get to it," man­ager Tony La Russa said. "That's his biggest problem, by the way. 
"He put us in a big hole." 
A good portion of a sellout crowd cheered when La Hussa emerged from the dugout to yank Wells, who lasted 3 1/3 innings and gave up six runs and 10 hits. Wells was booed heavily as he left the field. 
Wells entered 2-0 with an 
0. 75 ERA against his former team, beating them on May 23 to snap a personal worst seven-game losing streak. Wells was bumped from the rotation in mid-June after going 2-11 with a 6.93 EHA and lately he's been struggling 

again, going 0-3 with a  10.80  
in his last three starts.  
"Having  already  been  

through the adversity I've had this year, it's not like I'm going to bury myself," Wells said. "I'm just going to do what I can to give myself the best chance to be successful." 
WELCOME BACK!!! 
Salon Rouge would like to welcome you back to the Notre Dame Campus. We've missed you! As a student, you receive a 15% discount on hair services Monday through Wednesday with your student i.d. Call to schedule your appointment today. 
258.so8o 
620 W. Edison 
SALON ROUGE 
*Close to campus *Eye brow shaping *Specializing in Color & cuts *Manicures & Pedicures 
Visit our website @ www.salonrougeinc.com 
llatteberg, who  "He didn't look like  7 1/2 behind the  
was  his 2,9<J<Jth  he had his old stuff,  Mets.  
strikeout victim. "lie has a long way to go to get  and I wouldn ,t expect him to.,,  "We're gonna just have to run a streak here,  
back to his old  see  what hap­ 
stuff.  Scott Hatteberg  pens,  said  
"lie had just electric stuff,  Reds first baseman  Braves manager Bobby Cox.  
with  a  94 mph  Cormier  did  
fastball  and  not  allow  a  

sharp. breaking curve. lie may home run for the first time in get there, but he isn't close seven starts. He had given up now. It's obvious he knows how 13 homers in 32 innings before to pitch." Monday's start, but he relied 
Martinez fanned Aaron on his curveball to hold the llarang in the second inning to Phillies to only four hits ­become the 15th pitcher with including three to Chase Utley 3,000 career strikeouts. -and one run in ·5 2/3 Boston's Curt Schilling was the innings. most recent to join the group, "I built on it last start, threw getting his 3,000th in August it a lot more, and today that last year. was the pitch I went to when I 
Moises Alou had three hits, needed it," Cormier said. "It including a solo homer. and was a good one today." 
seored three times. David 
Wright also had three hits, 
including a two-run homer 
that put the Mets in position 
for their fourth straight victory, 
matching their season high. 
Carlos Delgado hit a solo home 
run in the ninth, his 22nd. 
IIa rang (14-4) had been 4-0 in his last five starts, but matched his season high by giving up 10 hits and six runs in 5 2/3 innings. 
"I can't be perfect all the time," Harang said. "The ball just earried today." 
Braves 5, Phillies 1 
Maybe it was the heat. Perhaps it was carryover from a bad loss to the Marlins. Whatever it was, Hyan lloward and Aaron Howand couldn't make eontact, and the Philadelphia Phillies lost again. 
Howard and Howand com­bined to go 0-for-7 with five strikeouts and the Phillies lost to the Atlanta Braves on Monday. 
Philadelphia, only two games out of first place four days ago, suddenly is five back in the NL East, and last week's optimism is fading as the deficit grows. 
"We've got to find a way to recreate some momentum here and turn this into a respectable trip," Jamie Moyer (12-11) said after giving up four runs in 5 2/3 innings. 
The Phillies swept New York in a four-game series last week to pull to within two games of the Mets. Since then, they've lost three of four, including two of three at Florida. 
"Those four wins against New York don't mean as much at this point," Moyer said. 
Manager Charlie Manuel suggested the Phillies hadn't recovered from Sunday's 7-6 loss to the Marlins, when Philadelphia blew a 5-0 lead. 
"I'd say some of the game yesterday carried over to today," Manuel said, adding he is worried about the growing gap between the Mets and his team. 
"We're losing ground with 25 games to play," Manuel said. "Yeah, of course we do [worry]." 
Added Moyer: "You can't make up five games until you make up one game. You can't look down the road." 
The Braves recovered after being swept by New York in a 
three-game 
weekend series, 
but they are still 
~.-­

Tuesday, September 4, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
,:s Q) 

200 Academic Competition Club 510 Handbell Choir, The Notre Dame 232 Pre-Law Society 201 Accounting Association, Notre Dame 511 Harmonia 233 Pre-Professional Society/AMSA 202 Actuarial Science Club 410 Hawaii Club -Na Pua Kai 'Ewalu 234 Pre-Vet Club, University of Notre Dame 109 Adworks 217 Health Occupations Students of America 734 Progressive Student Alliance 
-

700 Africa Faith & Justice Network 218 Hispanic Business Student Association of Notre Dame 517 Project Fresh ·­
m 

400 African Students Association 219 History Club 235 Psychology Club, Notre Dame 203 Africana Studies 716 Human Rights, Notre Dame 735 Ranger Challenge Team (AROTC) 
E 

701 Agora, The 512 Humor Artists of the University of Notre Dame du Lac 236 Real Estate Investment Q) 702 Amateur Radio Club of Notre Dame 310 Ice Hockey Team, Women's 736 Right To Life, Notre Dame 204 American Chemical Society, ND Chapter of Student Affiliates of the 717 Identity Project of Notre Dame 313 Rowing Club, Notre Dame 205 American Institute of Aeronautics &Astronautics. Notre Dame 411 Indian Association of Notre Dame 314 Rugby Football Club 206 American Institute of Chemical Engineers 220 Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 315 Running Club, Women's 207 American Society of Civil Engineers 221 Investment Club of Notre Dame du Lac 422 Russian Club 
American Society of Mechanical Engineers/ 513 Irish Dance Club, The 316 Sailing Club, Notre Dame
208 
Society of Automotive Engineers 

110 Irish Gardens 518 Saint Edward's Hall Players
209 Anthropology Club, Notre Dame 
718 Irish Marauders Drill Team 106 Scholastic Magazine
401 Asian American Association of Notre Dame 114 Irish Rover 237 Science Business Club, Notre Dame 402 Asian International Society 
719 Iron Sharpens Iron 737 Scrabble Club 
500 Bagpipe Band, University of Notre Dame 
412 Italian Club 738 Shades of Ebony
501 Ballet Folklorico Azul y Oro 
413 Japan Club 317 Ski Club/Team, Notre Dame 
502 Ballroom Dance Club, ND/SMC 720 Jewish Club of Notre Dame 739 Social Justice in American Medicine 703 Baptist Collegiate Ministry 
222 Joint Engineering Council, Notre Dame 238 Society of Women Engineers
210 Beta Alpha Psi 
107 Juggler, The 239 Sociology Club 
503 Big Yellow Taxi 
414 Korean Student Association 740 Sarin Rifle Team-Army ROTC 
211 Biology Club 415 La Alianza 423 Spanish Club, University of Notre Dame 403 Black Cultural Arts Council 
223 Lambda Alpha Honors Society in Anthropology 318 Squash Club, Notre Dame 
300 Bowling Club 416 Le Cercle Francais 741 Student Arts Society of Notre Dame 301 Boxing Club, Notre Dame Men's 224 League of Black Business Students 240 Student Association for Women in Architecture 302 Boxing Club, Notre Dame Women's 
721 Leprechaun Legion 100 Student Government 
404 Brazil Club of Notre Dame 722 Linux Users Group, Notre Dame 241 Student International Business Council 704 Campus Fellowship of the Holy Spirit 
514 Liturgical Choir, Notre Dame 519 Student Players, The Notre Dame 
405 Caribbean Student Organization of the University of Notre Dame 
225 Management Club 101 Student Union Board 
705 Chess Club 
226 Management lnform·ation Systems Club, Notre Dame 242 Students for New Urbanism 
706 Children's Defense Fund 227 Marketing Club, UND Undergraduate 742 Sustained Dialogue at Notre Dame 406 Chinese Culture Society 
311 Martial Arts Institute. Notre Dame 520 Swing Club 
504 Chorale, Notre Dame 
417 MEChAde ND 243 Tau Beta Pi 
104 Class of 2009 (Junior Class Council) 
723 Mediaeval Society of Our Lady of the Lake 424 Texas Club, The 
103 Class of 2010 (Sophmore Class Council) 
228 Mexican American Engineers & Scientists/Society of Hispanic Prof. 113 The Observer 
303 Climbing Club 
724 Militia of the Immaculata, Notre Dame 743 The Risk Club 
900 Club Coordination Council 
229 Minority Pre-Medical Society 112 The Shirt 
707 College Democrats 
725 Mock Trial Association 105 The Show 
708 College Libertarians of lilrersity of Notre Dame 
726 Model United Nations Club. Notre Dame 521 Troop Notre Dame 
709 College Republicans, University of Notre Dame 230 Mu Alpha Theta, Notre Dame 319 Ultimate Frisbee Club, Notre Dame 710 Communion and Liberation 
727 Muslim Student Association 522 Unchained Melodies 
212 Computer Club. Notre Dame 728 Mustard 244 Undergraduate Women in Business 505 Coro Primavera de Nuestra Senora, El 
418 National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, ND 744 t,Jniversity Young Life 
304 Cycling Club, Notre Dame 419 Native American Student Association of Notre Dame 425 Vietnamese Student Association of Notre Dame 506 Dance Company 729 ND for Animals 523 Voices of Faith Gospel Choir, University of Notre Dame 111 Debate Team 925 NDTV, Student Broadcasting of Notre Dame 320 Volleyball Club -Men's, Notre Dame 
711 Detachment 225 AFROTC 
515 Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company 745 Wabruda, The 
108 Dome Yearbook 
730 Orestes Brownson Council on Catholicism and American Politics 321 Water Polo Club, Men's 
213 Economics Club 
420 Organizacion Latino Americana 322 Water Polo Club, Women's
214 Entrepreneur Club 
731 Orthodox Christian Fellowship Club of Notre Dame 245 Women in Politics 
305 Equestrian Club 
516 Pasquerilla East Musical Company 524 Women's Liturgical Choir 
507 Farley Hall Players 732 Peace Fellowship -Notre Dame 323 World Taekwondo Federation Club 712 Feminist Voice 
733 Perspectives 920 WSND-FM 
306 Field Hockey Club, Notre Dame 
421 Polish Club, Notre Dame 905 WVFI 
307 Figure Skating Club, Notre Dame 312 Porn Pon Squad. University of Notre Dame713 Filii Mariae/Children of Mary 231 Pre-Dental Society
407 Filipino American Stude~rganization of Notre Dame 215 Finance Club of Notre Dame du Lac 508 First Class Steppers of Notre Dame 714 RipSide 600 AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist 625 Knights of Columbus, Notre Dame Council. No. 1477 308 Fly Fishing Club, Notre Dame 601 Alliance To Lead And Serve 626 La Casa De Amistad 216 Forum on Biomedical Ethics, Notre Dame 602 American Red Cross 627 LaSalle Council 102 Freshman Class Council/Judicial Council 603 Best Buddies 628 LEAD-NO 408 Gaelic Society of the University of Notre Dame 604 Boys and Girls Club 629 Life Treatment Centers 409 German Club 605 Campus Girl Scouts -ND/SMC 630 Little Flower Catholic Church 715 Glass Club 606 Center for the Homeless 631 Logan Community Resources 309 Gymnastics Club NDSMC 607 Children's Dispensary, Inc. 632 Logan Recreation Club 509 Halftime 608 Circle K, Notre Dame 633 Milton Adult Day Services 
609 College Mentors for Kids 634 Ms. Wizard Day Program Team
SPICIAl GUISTS " 
610 Dismas House 635 Operation Smile Student Organization 915 Alliance for Catholic Education 611 Darners Mentoring Kids 636 Real Services 909 Athletic Promotions 612 El Campito, Inc. 637 Reins of Life, Inc. 
921-924 Campus Ministry 613 Experiential Learning Council 638 Robinson Community Center/Take Ten 916 Career Center 614 Family Justice Center of St. Joseph County 639 SBCSC PartnerUp/Read to aChild 
910-913 Center for Social Concerns 615 First Aid Services Team, University of Notre Dame 640 Silver Wings (Benjamin D. Foulois Chapter) 917 Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 616 First Book Advisory Board 641 Slice of Life ND 914 Educational Talent Search 617 Foodshare 642 SOS of Madison Center 904 First Aid Services Team 618 Freedom 22 Foundation 643 Special Friends Club of Notre Dame 919 Gender Relations Center 619 Friends of L'Arche 644 Students for Environmental Action 903 Legends of Notre Dame 620 Habitat for Humanity, Notre Dame 645 Super Sibs 918 Office of Alcohol and Drug Education/PILLARS 621 Healthwin 646 Trident Naval Society 
907-908 RecSports 622 Helpful Undergraduate Students 647 United Religious Community 901-902 Student Activities Office 623 Indiana Legal Services 648 Women's Care Center 906 Undergraduate Admissions Office 624 Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids 649 World Hunger Coalition 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 4, 2007 
NFL 

Cameron looks to rebuild in Miami 
First-year coach will try to end Miami's 6­year playoff drought 
Associated Press 

DAVII~. Fla. -Bob Knight ronwmbors well how tho nnw Miami Dolphins coach got his start in tho profession. 
It was IIJX4. and aftnr playing two sports at Indiana, Cam Camnron wanted to pursue a football coaching caroM. lie sought lwlp from Knight. and thn lloosinrs basketball coach rnadn a <~all to Mkhigan football coach Bo Sdwmbechler. who had an oponing for a graduate assistant. 
"Bo said. 'Get him up here tomorrow morning,"' Knight says. "I told Cam, 'Schmnbnchler will be in his oflice at 8 o'dock. You be sitting on the step at 7 .' II n said, 'Where is it'!' I said, 'You'd better find it.' 
"lie was there when Bo camo in, and Bo really liked him.'' 
Somo 23 years latm, Cameron is starting another nnw job. I le rnakos his debut as an NFL head coach Sunday for the Miami Dolphins at Washington. 
"Coaching is all I know," ( :ameron says. "My mothnr mar­ried a eoach when I was 13. I don't know anything elso." 
Dons he know enough to trans­f'orm tho Dolphins into champi­ons? It has bfwn six seasons sinen thoir last playofl' game, 15 since they reached the AFC championship game, 23 since thny mado the Super Bowl. and 34 since tlwir most roeent NFL titlo. 
Miami wont 6-10 last year undor Nick Saban, and the Cameron nra begins with expec­tations of at least modest improvement in 2007. But it's dnar thn 
"It may not take five 
Dolphins are around this 
rebuilding: 11 years. It may not take game a long 
rookies are on one year. We'll have time," says the roster, includ­defensive tackle
to wait and see."
ing nine draft Vonnie Holliday, picks, the most to a 10-year pro. make the team in Jason Taylor "As a head 10 years. Dolphins defensive end coach, that's 
"You talk about rebuilding, and veterans don't want to hear that word," All-Pro defensive end Jason Taylor says. "But any time you have a new coaching sta!T, you're rebuilding. 
"Cam brought in veterans ­he brought in Joey Porter and Trent Green, guys he's trying to usn to get this thing fixed now and not just waiting for down the road. Even with rookie guys, you never know what ean happen. 
"It may not take five years. It may not take one year. We'll have to wait and see." 
Cameron has yet to lose a game, and he dissipated the oppressive atmosphere created by his successor, so it's no sur­prise his players praise him. Some of his deeisions have left observers scratching their !wads, however. 
Cameron passed on taking Brady Quinn in the first round of thn April draft. even though the Dolphins despnratnly needed a quarterback. lin instead drafted Tnd (;inn .Jr., touting his return skills, thnn gave the kickof'f­rnturn job to starting running back Honnin Brown. lie declared the ()B job open whnn it was a foregone conclusion Green would be the starter. lie called a Statue of Liberty style play to scorn a touchdown in an exhibi­tion game, instead of waiting until the mgular season to pull it ofr. 
During the prnseason, such issues crnatn only a ripple. Once thn games start to count, every dneision can carry snismie f'orcP. 
Especially if' Cameron loses. 
"''m not a worrier. I don't go down that road," he says. "The head coach is put in a position to succeed here, and I knew that bef'om I took the job." 
IIn was hired af'tpr five yeai·s as ofTnnsive coordinator for the high-scoring San Diego Chargers. lie's the first Dolphins head coach with an of'fensive baekground since Georgn Wilson in the late 1960s, and he'II even <~all plays himself. 
Oll'!mse is where the Dolphins were desperate for an upgrade. The unit will have six new starters, along with Cameron's intricate playbook, which emphasizes speed, precision, 
ereating  mismatches  .and  
spreading the ball around.  
"Cam  understands  this  

ollimse," GrP-en says. "IIis exten­sive baekground in it is going to be very beneficial for every­body." 
Green and Cameron worked together when both were with thn Washington Hedskins, and Cameron relied heavily on such past associations while putting together his staff and roster. He has previous ties with at least night players, and he has worked before with seven of his assistant coaehes. 
lie's much more inclined to delegate to players and assis­tants than Saban. 
"The thing that's impressive about eoach Camnron is he does 
not mind leaning 
on the people 
who have been 
probably tough 
to do sometimes 
as the guy on top. It shows something about his character that he's able to do that." 
Cameron is also quick to acknowledge his many mentors, including Marty Schottenheimer, Diek Vermeil and Knight. 
"They're a phone call away," Cameron says. "And that helps." 
Knight, now coach at Texas Tech, says he talks with Cameron several times a year. Knight's a fan of his protege even though Cameron went 18­37 in five years at Indiana ­until now his only head-coaching job. 
Cameron was fired after a 5-6 season in 2001. 
"Sheer stupidity," Knight says. "lie took over when they had hit a low spot in recruiting. Just as Cam got the thing going, they firnd him. 
"lin's a very bright guy and has a great work ethic. He'll work very hard. lie communi­eatos vory well, and he'll work at getting players ready to play both physically and mentally. I think it'll bn a really good situa­tion for the Dolphins." 
WNBA PLAYOFFS 

Detroit advances to finals again 
Nolan's 30 points help Shock continue quest to defend title 
Associated Press 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. ­Deanna Nolan scored 20 of her franchise playoff-record 30 points in the first half to help the defending champion Detroit Shock advance to the WN BA finals with an S1-65 victory over the Indiana Fever in Game 3 of the Eastern Conference finals Monday night. 
The Shock will face Phoenix starting Wednesday night as they go for their second straight title and third in five years. Detroit has won both postseason series this year 2­1 after losing Game 1 on the road, and is now 7-0 when facing elimination the last two seasons. 
Indiana led by 1:~ points in the opening minutes, but lost both the lead and All-Star forward Tamika Catchings in the second quarter. Catchings, who missed the final 13 regular-season games with a left-foot injury, strained her right Achilles' tendon in the last minute of the first half and did not return. 
Cheryl Ford, playing her third game in four days on a bad knee, had 15 rebounds in just 18 minutes. Swin Cash scored 12 points and Katie Feenstra added 11, matching her total in Detroit's first five playoff games. 
Indiana was going for its first conference title, but Tammy Sutton-Brown (17) 

A bit ofIreland in your own backyard. 

Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the flreplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(Waterfurd Estates"Lodge has hotel roomsatreasonable rate..stOr upcomin..'S NO fuotball weekends.) 

and Tully Bevilaqua (14) were the only Fever players to reach double figures. Tamika Whitmore, who had a league-record 41 points against Detroit in a first­round game last year, fin­ished with nine on 3-for-10 shooting. 
The Shock, known for their slow starts, trailed 16-3 with Ford on the bench in foul trouble. 
Nolan, though, singlehand­edly kept Detroit in the game. She had 20 points in a 14­minute span to help the Shock tie the game at 28. 
Plenette Pierson's jumper gave the Shock their first lead -30-28 -and drew a standing ovation from the previously silent crowd. 
Detroit used a 28-10 run over a 13-minute stretch to 
take a 35-30 lead at the half. and scored the first six points of tlH~ third quarter to go up by 11. 
Indiana came back, pulling within 44-43, but two straight put-backs by Ford helped the Shock build a safer margin. 
Ford had nine rebounds and a blocked shot in the period. and Detroit took a 57­47 lead into the fourth. The Shock led by as many as 20 in the fourth. 
Ford was called for a tech­nical with 5:11 to play after taking a swing at Sutton­Brown. 
Detroit Pistons All-Star Chauncey Billups attended the game, one day after help­ing the United States win the FIBA Americas tournament in Las Vegas. 


Tuesday, September 4, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
O'Brien dreading return to BC 
New NC State coach returns to Boston to take on former team 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. --During a decade at Boston College, Tom O'Brien grew familiar with every nook and cranny of cozy Alumni Stadium. 
Except one: the visitors' locker room. 
He'll lind out what it's like in there soon enough, at the end of a week he has been dread­ing seemingly since he was hired by North Carolina State. 
O'Brien is bracing for an uncertain reception during his first trip north to face the BC team he deserted in December when he made a rare in-con­ference switch. 
"I had a great experience at BC, and those kids are special kids up there, but come Saturday, my job is to win the football game and do the best I can for these kids at N.C. State, and with every breath and passion I have, that's what I'm going to do," O'Brien said Monday. 
"Now I know those kids on the other sideline, (their job) is to win the game for BC, and that's what they're going to do. And then, after the game we can all talk after it's over and then we'll never talk about this again. It will be over with." 
O'Brien, who says he only occasionally passed through the guests' locker room, isn't sure what to expect from the Boston College fans. 
He knows many of them felt jilted nine months ago when 
With College Combo®, designed especially for college students, you get: 
• 
Free Wells Fargo College Checking® account* 

• 
No annual fee Wells Fargo® Check Card-now with Visa® payWave 

• 
Free access to Wells Fargo Online® Banking and Free Bill Pay 

• 
Free Direct Deposit of paychecks and/or financial aid 

• 
Free access to over 6,800 Wells Fargo ATMs Stop by your local Wells Fargo and talk with a banker today. 


*Eligibility subject to approval. Students must provide proof of enrollment at an accredited college/university or trade school when the account is opened. $100 minimum opening deposit required for new checking account. Additional restrictions apply. 

he bolted the Atlantic Coast Conference contending Eagles for an N.C. State team that fell into the Atlantic Division cellar under fired coach Chuck Amato. 
''I'm pretty sure they love Coach O'Brien up there," line­backer Ernest Jones said. "So I don't think they're going to be negative toward the coach because he left a pretty good team there. They should have a positive vibe." 
The coach hopes they remember fondly how in 1997 he took over a BC program ravaged by a gambling scan­dal, built the Eagles into Big East contenders and shep­herded them through a messy switch to the ACC. 
The appeal of coaching at a state university with deep pockets, expansive facilities and a rabid fan base was enough to convince O'Brien to make just the second in-con­ference switch in the league's football history. 
"You get an occasional shot here or there, but it's probably 50 to 1," O'Brien said. "People recognize what went on in the 10 years at Boston College, from what I inherited to the scandal ... to restoring the integrity of the program and becoming a solid Top 25 pro­gram. 
"Certainly you want to leave a program better than you inherit it, and there's no ques­tion we did that." 
There are times when O'Brien misses the enthusiasm of college hockey, the buzz of a Red Sox crowd at Fenway Park and the camaraderie of friends with the NFL's Patriots. 
"I guess maybe that's bad now that I'm here in Panther country," he joked, referring to New England's Super Bowl vic­tory over Carolina in 2004. 
His new players say their taciturn taskmaster doesn't bore them with tales of Boston. 
"We don't get too many sto­ries from Coach O'Brien," tight end Marcus Stone dead­panned. 
Still, it's clear O'Brien has a soft spot for the former players he'll try to beat. Defensive ends Alex Albright and Nick Larkin graduated from the same Cincinnati high school that O'Brien attended, and he called cornerback DeJuan Tribble "another of my Cincinnati boys." 
And he praised quarterback Matt Ryan as "definitely the best quarterback in this con­ference, and maybe the top quarterback in the country." 
There are plenty of ties con­necting the schools' coaching staffs, too. 
O'Brien brought six mem­bers of his BC staff to Raleigh, including offensive coordinator Dana Bible and longtime recruiting coordinator Jerry Petercuskie. 
One of the coaches left behind, defensive coordinator Frank Spaziani, led the Eagles to a Meineke Bowl victory after O'Brien's departure. He was retained by new coach Jeff Jagodzinski --whom O'Brien hired a decade ago to coordinate BC's offense. 
"Frank and I go a way back, a lot of shared ideas back and forth, and he and Dana have been going against each other for eight years," O'Brien said. "There isn't going to be any­thing that they don't know about each other." 



© 2007 Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. All rights reserved. Member FDIC. 

Talk with a Wells Fargo Banker and get your PhD in Money-omics. 
The Next Stage® 
NFL 

Colts looking to gallop past Saints 
Dungy's squad will rely on offense in start of title defense 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS The Indianapolis Colts would do almost anything to avoid slowing down. 
They live on a no-huddle offense and quick-hitting scores, and rely on defensive speed to force oppo­nents into mistakes. So in Thursday night's season opener against New Orleans, the Colts hope to do -­what else? --start fast. 
"I believe it's important because you can get out in front and force other teams to play perfect football to catch you," coach Tony Dungy said Monday. 
The evidence supports Dungy's theory. 
Since Dungy's arrival in 2002, no team has had more early-season success than the Colts, and no team has been to the playoffs more often. Over the last five Septembers, Indy has turned a league-best 14-2 record into five straight playoff appearances, four straight division titles, two AFC championship game appearances and a Super Bowl title. 
The Colts also are the only team in league history to go 9-0 in back­to-hack seasons. 
More impressive is that the Colts have gone 7-1 in season openers since 1999 despite playing on the road six times. The only loss came at New England in 2004 when Mike Vanderjagt missed a 48-yard field goal in the final minute, a score that could have forced over­time. 
Consider, too, that Indy has 14 active veterans who have never lost an NFL game in September or October. The impeccable stats also include only one pre-Thanksgiving Day loss in 2005 and 2006. 
What's their secret? 
"I think we're always really pre­pared and we usually have a sim­ple game plan," said starting line­backer Rob Morris, now in his eighth season with Indy. "We're not trying to do too many things and guys are ready to go, mentally and physically." 
Dungy believes the success has more to do with veteran leadership. While many offenses are still try­ing to refine timing early in tl1e sea­

son, the Colts, with Super Bowl MVP Peyton Manning and Pro Bowl receivers Marvin Harrison and Reggie Wayne, are already in sync. 
"Our offense usually comes out of the box functioning very well," Dungy said. "That's usually what takes time and we kind of hit the ground running." 
Or throwing, in the case of Manning. 
In his last 16 September games, the two-time league MVP has com­pleted at least 60 percent of his passes in 11 games and thrown 31 touchdowns versus 1 0 intercep­tions. That includes a six TO per­formance at New Orleans in 2003 and five more against Green Bay in his record-setting 2004 season. 
Yes, there has been the occasion­al stumble, such as an uninspiring 9-6 win at Oeveland in the 2003 opener, but the Colts have consis­tently figured out ways to win. 
"I think we practice well in camp and get a lot done," tight end Dallas Clark said. "I think our guys pre­pare well and the game plan usual­ly allows us to get in a groove early." 
Manning and his teammates can­not afford a lapse Thursday against a team they easily could have faced in last year's Super Bowl. 
New Orleans reached its first NFC championship game in January, and with a star-studded cast on offense has become a trendy pick to win this year's con­ference title. 
Most expect this game to be a shootout between the league's two best passing offenses of 2006. Manning, who is from New Orleans, was the AFC's Pro Bowl starter at quarterback last year, while New Orleans' Drew Brees, who played at Purdue about an hour north of Indianapolis, started for the NFC. 
Some have even billed it as a potential Super Bowl preview, something the Colts won't buy. 
The reality is that because the Saints and Colts play in opposite conferences, the game has more hype than impact. 
But that doesn't mean it won't set the tone for the rest of the season --something the Colts, as usual, want to establish quickly. 
"We like to start fast and make other teams chase you," Pro Bowl center Jeff Saturday said. "But the reality is it's only one of 16 games." 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 4, 2007 
MLB-NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Astros' comeback keeps Brewers in free-fall 
Zanzbrano hears boos at Wrigley in blowout loss to Dodgers; bat-around third inning lifts Rockies over Giants 
steam" after the three-hour,
Associated Press 
50-minute game -but also 

MILWAUKEI~ -Milwaukee said it was the most fun he has BrewPrs owner Mark Attanasio had so far as a major league can't quite understand why manager. manager Ned Yost is being "Those are the kind that blanwd for tlw team's recent build you up, get you excited to slide in thn standings. come out tomorrow and play," 
The grumbling is likely to get Cooper said. louder after the Milwaukee's Houston's Mark Loretta said bullpen guvn up a three-run Cooper's arrival has given the lead in tlw eighth inning on team 1mergy. The Astros are 4­Monday. allowing the Houston 3 sinee Cooper took over. Astros to stPal a 9-7 victory "I think he's set a very good and end tlw Brewers' three­tone," Loretta said. "I think game winning streak. we've played very hard since 
"There s1~nms to bn morn hn took over. Not that we day-to-day, inning-to-inning woren't playing hard under eornnwntary on Ned's manag­'(;ar,' but sometimns a change ing llwn any team in the major is kind of a wake-up call to the lnagtws," said Attanasio, who players." gave Yost a firm vote of' confi­It was the 13rewnrs' bullpen dPncn during a mid-game sns­that nnnded a wake-up eall in siorJ with n•portprs. "I mean, I tho eighth. With Milwaukee gl'l all the Nnw York and Los leading 7-4. Yost brought in Angnles papPrs. they don't do sdup man Derrick Turnbow. daily commentary on how the But Turnbow, whose struggles manager's managing.... Wo'rn last season eost him his role as not tlw only tl~am that's had Milwaukee's closer, loadnd the rough going lwrn." bases with one out and was 
Tlw BrewPrs have lost a reinoved for left-hander Brian major leagUI~-worst 15 games Shousn. who allowed a sacriliee in which tlwy led by at least lly to pinch-hitter Craig Biggio three runs. to cut the Brewers' lead to two. 
"We still wPrP in a nice posi­Yost then brought in righty tion to win tlw ballgame and Greg Aquino (0-1) to face didn't," Yost said. "That's what Penee, a right-handed hitter, Zambrano remained winless plate," Dodgers cateher Russell bander since Shawn Estes had makes il tough." and Aquino threw a wild pitch for more than a month. Martin said. "I thought he did a 15 in 2004. 
Astros rookie Hunter Pence to give the Astros runners on Loaiza allowed three runs in great job, stayed aggressive "Those arc bonuses," Francis hit a key two-run triple during sneond and third with two outs. seven innings and hit atwo-run throughout the whole game, said. "Hight now, we're trying the rally. But the bullpen was­Penee then drove a ball past single, leading the Dodgers and when we got the lead he to win games." n't solnly responsible for the eenter fielder Bill Hall for a over the Chicago Cubs 11-3 was being even more aggres­Manny Corpas got three outs loss, as a passed ball by eateh­game-tying triple. Monday. sive and using his defense." for his 13th save in 15 chances, nr Johnny Estrada allowed Yost said he was simply play­"I will remember that," Loaiza gave up nine hits, and his 13th straight since Pence to scorn and gave the ing the logical matchups; Penee Zambrano said of the fan reac­struck out three and walked replacing Brian Fuentes as Astros to take the lead. hits 61 points higher against tion. "I don't want to stink and one, throwing 96 pitches. His closer. 
"It's hard. It [stinks)." lefties. lhave] bad outings. I know the single was his first major Colorado's big third inning Estrada said. "We can't lgivel "We didn't make the pitch," great moment of my career will league hit since Aug. 26, 2005. came mostly at the expense of any more games away, not in Yost said. "We didn't make the come." "I haven't swung the bat for Giants starter Matt Cain. The Septmnbnr." pitch." Zambrano (14-12) lost his two years since I was with the Hockies roughed up Cain (7-14) 
But at least it was a happy fifth straight start, giving up Nationals," Loaiza said. "I tried for six runs and live hits in the honwcoming for Astros inttwim Dodgers 11, Cubs 3 eight runs for the first time to make contact and I got a inning before he was lifted in manager Cecil Cooper, who Carlos Zambrano heard the since June 22, 2005, at base hit with two RBis with two favor of reliever Pat Miseh. took over for fired manager boos from the Wrigley Field Milwaukee. outs. I think that was a big hit Francis battled Cain, fouling Phil (;arner last week. Cooper faithful and pointed to his "I don't understand why the of mine." ofT four pitehes before doubling was a five-tinw All-Star in 11 head. Esteban Loaiza had just fans were booing at me. I can't James Loney had three RBis to center. seasons with the Brewers. gotten the Los Angeles Dodgers understand that," Zambrano for Los Angeles, which is four "I hit it obviously in the right 
Cooper said he was "out of a win in his first try. while said. "They showed me today games baek of San Diego and spot,'' Francis said. they just care about them. three behind Arizona in the NL Francis scored on a single by That's no fair. Because when West. Kaz Matsui, and Matt you are struggling, that's when NL Central-leading Chicago Holliday's sacril'iee fly scored you want to feel the support of maintained a 1 1/2-game lead Willy Taveras. After consecu­the fans." over Milwaukee and a two­tive walks to Todd llelton and 
lie lasted 4 1/3 innings, his game margin over St. Louis. Garrett Atkins loaded the shortest outing since he went bases, Brad llawpo lined a two­four innings against Cincinnati Rockies 7, Giants 4 run single to right field. on April 13. lie gave up seven Jeff Francis has emerged as Misch came on and gave up hits and five walks. the Colorado Hockies' staff' ace, an HBI single to Troy 
Zambrano has a 9.56 ERA in but his biggest eontribution Tulowitzki and a tripln to right three starts since the Cubs Monday came with his bat. to !annetta. gave him a $91.5 million. five­Francis· one-out double start­Taveras had three hits and year contract extension ed a seven-run third inning, Helton and Jannetta had two through 2012, and he is 0-5 and Chris !annetta's two-run hits each. with an 8.29 ERA in six starts triple highlighted the rally as "Very rarely do you win wlwn since beating Cincinnati on July the Hockies opened a crucial you score in one inning here 
29. six-game homestand with a win and you don't add on." Hoekios 
"We need Carlos straightened over the San Francisco Giants. manager Clint llurdln said. "It out," Cubs manager Lou The Hockies, who started the was a big inning. It was a good Piniella said. "llis stuff is plenty day five games back in both the inning. It was enough for us to good. I liked his stuff today. I National League West and the win a game." was expecting a really. really, NL wild-card race, improved to Cain, who went 2 2/3 innings. bang-up effort after seeing him 71-66. TlH~Y are five games had the shortest start of his eome off the mound, and then above .500 for the first time career in a ballpark when~ pn~­all of a sudden he gives up a since Aug. 15. viously he was dominant in run. Loaiza gets a big base hit. A year ago, the Hoekies wero 2007. In his two prior starts at That's not Zambrano like." 10 games under .500 and out Coors Field this season, Cain 
Loaiza (1-0) was claimed off of the postseason hunt. was 1-0 with a O.(,C) UtA in 13 waivers from Oakland on "It's a lot more fun," Francis innings. lie started stron.g Wednesday, with the Dodgers said. "Guys out here are play­Monday, striking out live of' tiH~ assuming more than $8 million ing for the team, playing for first night batters he faced in guaranteed salary this year the guy next to you. This time before Francis' double. and next. lie did not pitch this last year guys were going out "Francis, that's a huge at-bat season until Aug. 22 due to a and maybe playing a little bit there, then he just couldn't get bulging disk in his neck, and for themselves. Now they have out of it," Giants manager the two-time All-Star was 1-0 no choice but to do otherwise." Bruen Bochy said of' Cain. "It's with a 1.84 ElM in two starts Francis (15-6) went 5 2/3 a game we let get away from with the Athletics. innings, giving up three runs us, because Matty had good 
"He didn't make very many and nine hits. His 15 wins are stuff. It's a shame we couldn't mistakes in the middle of the the most by a Colorado left-get out of that inning." 


Tuesday, September 4, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Carr, Wolverines try to regroup after upset 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -Two days after enduring a loss that sent shock waves through the college football world, Michigan coach Lloyd Carr already has shifted his focus forward. 
He is doing so while much of the national attention remains centered on what lingering effects the Wolverines' historic 34-32 season-opening loss to Appalachian State will have on a team that started the season ranked fifth and a national championship contender. 
Carr said Monday that Michigan, which was penalized seven times and committed two costly turnovers against the Mountaineers, is starting from scratch heading into Saturday's game against Oregon. 
"What we have to do in a short time here is become a more disciplined team, a smarter team and a team that executes better," Carr said at his weekly news conference. 
Appalachian State's win at Michigan Stadium marked the first time a Football Championship Subdivision team -formerly I-AA-beat a team ranked in The Associated Press Top 25. 
"There were a lot of people on the team were really in a bad mood and a ·tot of people who took a lot of blame on them­selves," offensive lineman Adam Kraus said. "But we had a lot of missed opportunities in there, and it ended up really hurting us." 
The final blown chance came with Michigan in prime position to kick a game-winning field goal after Appalachian State had taken a two-point lead on Julian Rauch's 24-yard field· goal with 26 seconds remaining. 
Michigan set up for a 37 -yard field goal after Chad Henne con­nected with Mario Manningham on a 46-yard pass with six sec­onds remaining. But Jason Gingell's kick was blocked by Corey Lynch, clinching the Mountaineers' stunning upset. 
"With a chance to win the game, we didn't execute a fun­damental play -a play that we have worked extremely hard at all fall," Carr said. "That's the way it is." 
Gingell also had a 44-yard field goal attempt blocked with 
1:47 remaining with Michigan clinging to a 32-31 lead. Carr said he initially believed Gingell's kick was low, but that after watching game film, he blamed it on Michigan's protec­tion team. 
"You can't fault [Gingell] for those last two [blocked kicks]," Carr said. "He made two [field goals] and for a guy that has not been in games before, to go in there and kick two in a row in his first start is a very positive thing for him." 
Now Michigan is left to recov­er while preparing for an Oregon team that will present many of the same challenges, running the same spread offense the Wolverines struggled to defend against Appalachian State. 
But as tough as Saturday's loss was to swallow, it provided ward." 
Indianapolis Colts defensive back Marlin Jackson, a former Michigan standout, said he was embarrassed by the result. 
"We lost to a I-AA program, and we were a top-five team," he said. "To go out and be the first team in history to lose to a I-AA team, it hurts." 
Jackson said the loss has been an almost nonstop topic of con­versation for him. 
"That's all I've been getting the last couple of days. Every text message I get just says 'Appalachian State.' That's all it says," he said. 
"The Ohio State guys have been all right. It's everybody else around here. Even coach [Tony] Dungy said something to me about it." 


YOUR CATERING SOLUTIONIll 
BOX LUNCHES, PLATTERS. PARTIES! 
DELIVERY ORDERS will include adelivery charge of SOc per item (•HOc). 

one o our omema e rene unsFREEBIES ISUBS & CLUBS ONLY) then smothered with onions. mayo, #16 CLUB LULU 
Fresh sliced turkey breast, bacon, lettuce. tomato.
Onion. lettuce. alfalfa sprouts. tomato, mayo. sliced lettuce, tomato, & our homemade & mayo. (JJ's original turkey & bacon club)
cucumber, Dijon mustard. oil & vinegar. and oregano. Italian dressing. 
I WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK tr 
Michigan's players with an 
54570 N. IRONWOOD DR. 1290 E. IRELAND 138 S. MICHIGAN 5343 N. MAIN ST.
unexpected source of motiva­
574.277.8500 574.291.1900 574.246.1020 574.968.4600
tion. "It hurts because you don't SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA like losing," linebacker Chris 
Graham said. "But how far can 
you hold your head down? I'm ''YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOHN'S!'' © 
not holding my head down at 
®1985. 2002. 2003. 2004, 2007 JIMMY JOHN'S FRANCHISE. LLC All RIGHTS RESERVED. We Reserve The Right To Make Any Menu Changes.
all. You've got to move on for­
Tuesday, September 4, 2007

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
Brey 
continued from page 24 
Fon~os l·:ntertainnwnt. Brey's team f'an~d ofT against Prosser's team in thn finals of the tournament. with Prosser's squad claiming the title. 
"At the funeral. I had a flashback because I walked into tlw foyer of the church and then~·s a picture of' him in thn d~ampiunsh ip game coaching in the background," Brey said. "Tho funeral was unbelievably emotional and unb1diovably classy. It was a real tribute to him and the people he touclwd." 
Aside from the memory of onn of' his best friends, Brey lnl't Kuwait with a different outlook on life and coaching. 
On the fourth day of the trip, tho delegation visited Camp Buehring. The camp -locat­ml 15 miles from tho Iraq bor­der -is a staging and train­ing arna for U.S. troops bound for Iraq. 
"Buehring was thn soldiers' camp. That was the locker room bdore the game," Brey said. "Thny're going north into 
Baghdad  and  all  thn  hot  
spots."  
But  before  Brny  arrived  

tlwre lw met someone that mad1~ him feel a little more at honw. 
"!Campi Arif]an whern we wen~. is command logistics,'' Brey said. "But on the tarmac bnforn the ride to !Campi Buehring, the pilot gets out and puts his Notre Dame hat on." 
The pilot was Capt. Ben La<~y. a 2000 graduate of Notre Dame. Lacy is in charge of opnrations at Camp Buehring. Lacy showed !key and his col­lnaguns the exercises troops go through before heading into combat. which include simulating a war zone so the troops know what to expect once they enter Iraq. 
"Tho only way I could dnscribe today was intense and a rnal reality cheek for all of us,'' Brey said in a diary on 
Shots 
continued from page 24 
Gatos carne up with a career-high 10 saves in the game, but the Irish could not hit one home, despite eatehing the junior goalie out of position several times. 
Afinr the final whistle, several Michigan playHrs thrnw their arms up in triumph, highlighting the skill gap between the two squads that was evident through­out the I I 0 minutes of play. 

But the Irish righted the ship Sunday at Florida. The team cap­italized on their opportunities, scoring on two of their li1ur shot<> on goal in a 2-0 win over the No. 7 Gators. 
"We definitely had a bettor game !against Florida!," Grnathousn said. "We wore more nflident, nspm:ially in the final third of the game." 
In just their second oflidal eon­test of the season. the No. 2 Irish provnd they are easily able to beat a top-tier opponent like Florida. 

Tho Irish also proved this weekend that ellideney and fi1cus will b£~ tlw keys to their hopes of advancing deep into the NCM TournamnnL 
If they struggll~d to finish on so many Ol~ca<>ions against the unrank1~d Wolverines, they will likely struggle against opponent<> that do not grant them so many 
Photo courtesy of MIKE THEILER Irish coach Mike Brey coaches during a May 25 game while in Kuwait as part of the USO's Operation Hardwood. 
und.com. "It was one helluva day." 
Brey said he was moved by the focus and the gratitude of the troops he met. !lis experi­ence as coach of a team com­prisocl of troops changed the way he coaches his team back on eampus. 
"I think I've become a better leader and a better team builder from that experience. I'm using lines, sayings, things that I heard with my team over the summer. It was really motivating for me," Brey said. "It was embarrassing at times, because soldiers over there would come up and thank us and we said, 'Whoa, whoa. First of all thank you. We're honored to be here.' I still get e-mails from guys over there." 
When Brey returned home, he got to see Prosser one final 

time before the Demon Decon coach's death. The two shared a flight together on their way to Las Vegas and discussed possible changes they were trying to make as part of the NCAA Men's Basketball Hules Committee. 
The trip to Kuwait was a ful­filling experience, Brey said, but the death of Prosser will­leave a hole in his heart and in college basketball that will be hard to replace. 
"I miss him and I think the profession will miss him," Brey said. "We need more guys like him. I wish more young coaches would watch his style and not take them­selves so seriously. He never did." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

opportunities. But if Notre Dame can finish it<> scoring chances, it C<Ul boat anyone in the nation. 

A<> Notre Dame head coach Handy Waldrum pointed out after Friday's disappointing rngular­se<L<>on opener, the draw against Michigan will not kill the Irish. 
In fact, if the Florida game wac; any indication, the Irish will ben-
VANESSA GEMPISrThe Observer 

Irish linebacker John Ryan attempts to tackle Yellow Jacket tailback Tashard Choice in Notre Dame's 33-3 loss Saturday. 
Weis 
continued from page 24 
sophomore. 

These youngsters will be hero for the long haul, hut what Saturday showed is that they have a lot to learn. 
And Weis can teach it to them. He just needs to concen­trate on teaching and not out­rageous game plans that waste valuable learning time. 
The offensive line needs to be taught to make pre-snap reads, so they aren't flat-footed and getting pushed around when the ball is snapped -and also so defenders aren't running past them unmolested every play. 
They are behind in that task because they spent time on the spread option before Georgia Tech, but that should and will end now. And they will get bet­ter. 
What will also end now is the quarterback carousel. Weis is announcing or has already announced the starting quar­terback for Penn State today. That quarterback will be "the" guy and the coach can do what he does best-teach him the 
Adrian 
continued from page 24 

in the [Monmouth] tourna­ment: our defensive position­ing," she said. "We will need to have our floor defenders in the right position early and ready ·to defend against Adrian's 
attack." 

The most important step in 
counteracting Adrian's strong 
attack is the play of Saint 
Mary's seniors. 

Setter Amanda David aver­
aged 10.39 assists per game­
the second best in the MIAA ­
during her second full season 
at that position. 

Defensive specialist Marisa 
Gross started more than 100 
games last season and finished 
with an average of 2.36 digs 
per game. 

"Both [seniors! are such 
strong players with great court 
presence and winning spirits," 
Schroeder-Biek said. "They 
will be great leaders on the 
court." 

Although she will rely heavi­
ly on her seniors, Schroeder­
Biek has made some changes 
position. 
Of course, while all this learning is taking place, the team will still have to play games. While they may not win all of them, they won't look as bad as they did last Saturday. 
As the season rolls on, the team will get better and more confident. Thny will execute, and they will win. 
And eome next year and the year after, when the nucleus of this team returns, they will win even more. 
And then, if he deems it nec­essary. Weis ean have fun craft­ing some off-the-wall game plans to beat teams the Irish don't match up well with. 
But for now, consistency is the watch word. Install the basic offense and teach the team to run it well. 
Because while they're young, they're also talented -and they can do big things in their time at Notre Dame. 
So long as Weis and the fans have a little patience. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd. edu 
with her upperclassmen this season. Junior bloeker Cathy Kurczak will be starting at right-side bloeker instead of middle hitter, where she played last season. 
"We are positioning !Kurczak) on the right side to strengthen our blocking game,'' Sctiroeder-Biek said. "She did a great job out there this past weekend as both a blocker and an attacker." 

Taking Kurczak's place at starting middle hitter will be junior Kaela Hellmann. 
Underclassmen fill out the rest of the Belles starting six. Sophomore outside attacker Lorna Slupezynski looks to continue to improve after win­ning the MIAA freshmen of the year award in 2006. 
"She is a strong all around player -very talented and smart -she really sees the court well,'' Schroeder-Biek said. 
Hounding up the starting lineup are freshman middle hitter Andrea Sasgen and out­side attacker .Jac1~e Watson. 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

etit from an increased focus on finishing all their chances around the goal. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd. edu 
,-----------------­
~--­

Tuesday, September 4, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 
DEUCES MANOR 
How can you even say that Computer Science Engineers are nerdier than Aerospace majors? 
No:', I 11 <;oRR.Y, THE WELL, £~EP'T FeR UWIVE~SIIl''S c..I.D$EI> Tl-lf STUDENTS. R>P. THE HOI...IDAV. TI-IEl''llE IN C.L.A$~. Nc cNE 's 1"\ER.E. 
MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
Hey Paul, I'll see you in Aero Thermodynamic Propulsion Systems! 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 


Pn:cz:loo h:,o &!o::•.:O.Oho.w 

28 Soo~t.s: ~kit 11.1 F.,oe 011 ., fi•~er 28 Life fo n.., 11.3 f.l.-,Q:I~d 1i11e :)) Cl1r.,·~ Zho~1 11.11. Oil fi'e 
S!l. h1 __ (e:-3.-.til'(l) II. 7 Pci1ty tocl~ 31 UIXJ.ri~t.s: fw SG Ccl~II~HIG O,.,y
!1.81mpu oK<.w.:l 3S G.~ p..,j.s: mo.
11.8 hlfonu..,j 37 Zec1~lw; ''Nelooue!' S7 Hoops or g. 
33 Fre1'd1 clerio SO A~to osl1.it 
S8 Rel>elli~t.s: 
.

11.0 UIXJ.ri"t S1'__ fim ... Tm'felr 
For .,lloS>.wr.s:, ooll 1-001}28S-SGSG, ~ 1. 3J ., 1Yimtte", or, •:wth ., ored~ oor-:l 1-800-814-SSS.al. Am--.1..,j oSI.Ibsorip1iOI'llr we ., • ...,ilillbb for 1l1e beQ: of &w.:l.,y oro.s:oS>.vord-s: from1l1e I.,Q: ::£1 ye.-,r.s:: 1-888-7-AcROSS. 
01i11o oSI.Ibsorip1ior.s: Tod"...s: 1~1:z:zle .,1-.:l more 11'"' 2,000 
1~Q: 1~1:z:zle.s:, r¥imeo.s:. oou/oro.s:oS>.vord-s: (~8.85 ., yew). Shwe 1ip.s:: r¥imeo.s:. oou~~1:z:zlefor~uu. Cro.s:oS>.vord-s: for yow'(! oo•~er.s:: llytime.s:.oomAewllii'(Jb:o.vord-s:. 

Answer here: 

ITJ"[IIIIIJ
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: MANGY PUPPY PAYING JINGLE 
Yesterday's 

Answer: When he lost the case, the handsome lawyer was -"APPEALING" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

(DD:J'.]I'E.g]l()r.J'.f a.r THEDIU:: JGo,,,.-td:t E.olriloh. :!1-6; C'llill:li .. Sl ...... ~ 1.W..a.. P-into "*; El..... , l:ctooo,..• 75 
ILti!>;IAI:i<lh<i":l< N (.,,~ N :."'" lo:'"'f j'«l< tonoli .. ,., ooo·lto: oooob»l.-.o·l j'«l< fo..,( 
._...a.r .... •lrii~lto IIi• ...,,1,.. .... ~...1l""' Ili•<iplin .. ·:.oill I,., • ...,,;.,.,.( ruol .... ,.....;. li·a oo'in-t...t if:."'" '."Hilt t.. """''" .........~ ..-f lloo .. pt«:booitH..tloill: r; .. ...r .....r. Pot.p<fi 1<-·:....lo: lo~l .-.ol "'®W' •:Jil 1,,. :."''""' Y.oo: noonl,.,.:•......, .1. 1.;. 2(1, 2.;. :!12. :!!') 
IU'...S t;r.lo.tdo :11-.'4tcil 1~ Dou't l>iot. "''I <:lnooC<oO ·:A~t~o .r.,r;,~ ·:Jillo tt,...::(,..., 1,.,...,..., ... o'llj"'IIO ·:Ao.. -c.-11 inffoHII<>Io j..IE (if... 0-.....:in~ ·:Jill mfj' 1,.-.do:fioto ...,,... in~:.'""''"""'" ~i.tf. :a.,.....,..:(, t.. 1....,, ..,,......tloioli!l 1i<oOtln,.(tloill: ·:Jill htlf' :."'"~<I: ,r,..,r ... l:iollo: t.. ,.,.,....,,,. ·:Jilloon-'">f...itoo«. oj. •to'Eoo TAlJJ:.W(.'Ijtcil ~.1.~2(1): Yo-n lo:ow:J ·:Aoill: ;, <irl'i""l <>I' i"'" ,..,.llw:J t.. '"""'" :.'""" .(o:..,,... _,.,,.tao ... .., •4 f'"""""'limJ:in~ ruolon.h :."''"' ,,.,.,.._ y.,, (n,o,. ,.., ...,!lin~ t.. ~,-in t..·L-J;o ....1. ,..., .. ,.., "" :."'" •lido: t.. j'«l< ~,..,. f'l'"• •l»o~-1 """'"'" <-ut <-n t-:.p ....rin oCo0-111:£~. ~.-tim~ taJ,[I'f.IIJ',Io.:y2J.-Jim• ~:t ,.o,_._..;.l aon·io .. ·:Jillo-ftitool• ...1'.-.o'il;.o. 'ftin;[lo' ·:Jill .... -enlo"ft. 1......,;,.., :."'"in o'Lf'~.,,. f'""'iti ..,. Dou't ,,...,. .....tlo.,olnllloaoli!l .~oQ,; .. ,., tloill: :."'" -:illn»t wJ-olo: ... Yi-n ·:Jill -=«'l'li•kiYo: ,...,,. if:.'""'' ·:....lo: 1oi..tl:t .. , "'"".... ill:i·a ;.r........ lo-cJ:.I,-1-:!1 •to'Eoo C,J,J'.fa.J', (,Inn• :11-So~:y z.;!.:t;D..olt I,., ,y..,;.r t.. -k-..,,......~~,;,.., «ot <>I' If,,..,..,,...,_.., 
II' ,.,,.tlioli!l •-·t.1ixio~ ow:J i• lloolion .. t.. ·k-il 'f,((o:, ·:Jilllotlf' :,o-ooo ...t.i-li•lo j'«l< f'<"'ili«o ..... r .. on.l .. :."'" t.. ~...,II in;[!>' ''f' ....1 a111oioli!l t.. :,...,., liloln~ ol.•tio:oo 
U.O (.Jnl:y2i!.,.O,o;t~.~: Y.niM.j>NIIIo .. ,,....1 t.. htlf" .. tl...,,l,,ll:o if it mtiin~ .,, 
·:Aoill: }"'II""'" "'Pf'""'... l t.. I,., .,...tliol\( ·k-o ... ~>totlioolo: }"'IE .tJ:~ o"o.l ..._.. t..till:i-oolo~lif' ,.,~I> .. f"'llioli!l :.'""' ;,,,,.._., -l<..a:o«o. '11oill:'• OX,... 1-ooo~"" it .~<o...,,lt in ~>~<No .. ·:.olio j'«l< ...... do:. *•t.-.:• \"JJ';.OO li'uo:~~.:ML:&.o.ttt.. z.;!.:t; l' ,..,......~~,;,.., i•l,->llo..au~ :.'""" ·~ .... X..Of4n~ II oil;[!>'F'"".,.''f' ·:.ooto't ...,.,j.,,.lf,. ..,j,lioo~ f'"'"l,l"""" Yo-n on~ n<-1: lilo:.. <:«olo:<'J-j' l,ot ow:J 
,. mt lloolioM 1<-l..t ,.,,..,,,.·:.....rio: ,(I ... _ :.'""''· q-o.::t ..::(,,....,..., t.. <-:<:oo<"" ........ult ..-f j"'IE o'ldi« ... 2 o'l:il:• 
1-m'.A (:&.ttl:.. U.Od:.. ~ '1 .......L inb:i<l''., loTJo'tio<j' nn·l b:'Ji'li!l ..,,,.~,;,.., ,,.._.,·:Jill ,(I ..,,at., j"'IL l!.tf.c,,.!"" jno'l' in·:Jillol,->llo........., .,.,.,;.~to; lo .. _,.,.,...,,..,oQt.O. P,..l,l ..,. ·:Ail .. tr.vtlnli!l «: ·:.otlo,..oll»ai:'Ji'i;t!oo:..., .-f'WHLitot ,..,.fl,toioli!l oo'imo­-1-t<->-1 ·:Jill_fooi>..ei'J. ....,.,oc, !> •to'Eoo S(.lOJ:l'Klo (Od:.. 23 .r....,. :2l:t 'f.o'illo o1.li~ .. i""''"'il:'/ .-.ol im.... tioli!l in •«n..tlioo~ 
:.--:-.• b..li..-.... in1 :.--=-n-:.-u•·"" "I'V"/":....11. ~1:1 l"h in t:l ... .-t.ov but:1«1 .......tlito)",l .. i!o:-t­
·:NE·I·:.ollo«otfoo:IIH< lo .... itill:i-ooo. fuf' ·:Miin~-M< _,.,_ t.. ~;._.. :.'""'' lloo ~.,..,(,....(. :!1 'til:oo SA'iil-li'TIJ'JJ':e t;r.r....,. :2;1-D.:.. :2l:t; y.,, 'ru;' !link:."'"""'"~~~~ t<:xr,• ·:Jitlo 
,.,.,..tlioo~ l,ot lloioolo: ~"· :rlido: t..lloo1'o1o2oo.H..oooot-/ ·:Jilll,an~ :.'""' ~''" ...,nlt.o :.'""' ,..,., t.. ,...,._....,.,.._...,...., __ 1',(,iti-oill:i..oo·:Jill n«. .-'u:<'"""''"" ""'" -w.-ol :!1 •tio:oo 
GJol"J'.I.lOT:l'.r ~ n,r,.,_ls<.t y.,, .-a~lt ..,If,.. ,...,,,..,, ... ,,.,..,.. ..,,;..::~o:~:,. t.. 
'"""''"" :."''"' r.,.;ti .. u.-.o·l to-ok'" ·:Ani!• <i~ott'o~l:t :."''"'" Dou't l..t '"'i"'''" -I~ :."'" .,.,...... , .,.,..,. :.'""' .....a~.n..o1t ......-it-No: ->~~·-t.. ~. 't ·:A ... , :."'" ..., .. .., """' ,r,..,(. :!1 ........ 
AQlJIJ'J.I':e(hoo.~ol:o..l$:t;E·,..-;tlioo~ i• bo:oio·o;[l in j'«l<m'... < J.r...Jo. j' ..m dooi-otoO ,..,.( oooolionoo ~.,;,~ ioo o'L·Ii...:to..nlloill: .. oit.o :.'""' l,.,ot J.[.:.·_.. .. , t.. j'«l< oori l,j~ do...rr...., .. ·:Jillo ooool'i-ku«. Y-ou' ... -t'iu...rl:,o ~t ~ t..~o.., .., ·k-olt•I .. ·:J -k-·:.oo ,..,.( 1-c-... ]oOtll: h1-:>ti'I.YII:IIII"L S .. t.'KI ~(f'ol:o. :UOJ',wdo 2(1): Y.oo r,.......,,'t ~t ...... ,.,tloioli!l lin<rlot .-.ol ..... 1:.0 t.. ~., l,ot lloill:·l...,,.o't ,.......,, j'«••h«ol·l ~ra up-. :R..-Ji..-:J ·:~oil!::."'".-b:j'in~ t.. .( .. ,..,.( 
'""'"""""":~I ·:Jillo ,.,,..,._..., toollu.,;,..., .... D.o.o't ~..tnn.tJ:iii:<.I·:Jillo -kl~•· 2 ot...:• 
:l=i<llo..l,~,(;,:y: -:fuo .-tooto;t~..ti<> F-1.-;.f.~. tlitlnJ:K.o., .-.o-1-l..uanio .... l t.. .,=-.L y.,, ............iti·.oto .. ~,o ...,,..t .....1.1 ... 5<:o'lbo.l t.. j'«l< l,..ti.tfoo ........ , ......... 1 b:o1o5ti ...... Y«olilo: .. to-I,,. in QOUb:ol. 
&o,.,...U~ ~ .i:lk.J": -~·""'"'-""' fn, ..,~.,..n-"'r ...,~ .....,_ L:~.i' 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DUJEG 
J 
I I r [] 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
YOHBB 
[l] 
DEAGAN 
1 
rJ 
www.jumble.com 
FRYLUR 

rJ I I
1 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
You do the towels 
I 


WHAT THE: POKE:!< PL-AYE:R DID WHE:N HE: HE:L..-PE:O WITH THE L-AUNDRY. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
x.r... 

L.,;,·,t~I'\Je i1 
~A1icl1 pl~r..,j.s: .,re formed by ,;,:klil'(l -ci 
10 'Nri-:t1imer 1S a·,ri.-.ti.,ro Oor, e.g. 113 [}cp ., Iii 'lei frC4l1 
.,pier,~~ 
17 Aro<Jrl r..,j~>itos: i11 Ao. ~J o.llf:' 18 'Mrod.s:or'.s: pre••..: 3J Ftelix "'!ith KIerotfiOoo1i C• ro 21 H,;u-:1-to:r-mi.s:.s: 1-oop.s: os!Y.otos: 22 H,,rodl·oekl oo·n1~rter. bri.:f¥ 
;:,.J. Q•~e., oord h...ld Z5 Hero-s: ..t11'fel 
go~ 
.;ffil.KI e? 
:l:! &ttery pm 
33 Ho~I>Storo ~r.s: 
3!1.Hor~ ri'lttl'fel tr111~ 
313Vil,.;r,'.s: reoej:tK:>ro 
37 Green oord hclder 
38 'Nherooe Goy.-,' .s: 
d~~=oh~ 
38 P.lel'ol>I~-Mo­choo80 dr. 
11.0 Too.rroe~for .,I 
II. 1H.,•Je _ (reo~e~ !1.2Cml.,d/.s: mir.osim? 
!I.SCh""-oel !I.GFi1Hier'.s: _ II. 7 Shott~. oo"'fter 'i1' SO H.,•~e ., b~tg 
S2 T~1~1d'.s: 1i11e: Al~>r. SS 'NI·Illt ., Choogo b..,jll~ik l:oel'dl hcld.s:? 

MIB\\I!R TO PR!VIOUB PUZZL! 

13 St:.lif ~ml:ool 1II. D.,l)le r.l'lrl1l 
18G;~ell 
e:oq:oerimerJ'b.'llly 22 P.l"''l prof-s:. 23 Actor Bily _ 
'Niti... u.s: =+l~~E-1 211. P.lOGt oolili1Yito~t.s: 2S 1811.11. 01emiomy ~lobeliQ: Clto ~~+;-P.-4 213 Perlml'fell11y "'!ritten .-....;;.....,......,..,. 27 'TI1ke ., look!' 
S8 AI~>~•.-,.s: oo..t d p,.;lt GO 8e.-,cl1 oo~~t.s: 13 1r.leroQ'I-eli~jbb 132 Pri•..me cl'lllt 
lr+'o\'111 

1 Greek l'tjll11~' "'!ho pi1'!e'd !.91!'l'l 
for Nwci,o;.s~.t.s: 
2 •/Jj)'l do.'rjo' l'o':J ...! 
3 i'.rtjiYil~..mre gclf osl·cl 
II. Ar.:lmore: Al~>r. 
S p~,y.,l:oo~t rcl>o:t.s: 13 Soent.s: 7 ~lot yetfil.,, il I.,,.J 8 Tn~he.-,rtof 'Di~ Tr.,oy' 8 Poet'.s: 1~.,1-.et 1 0 CIIM'Silieds 11 Tree ri1gs: 12 H.,IW ho~r ory 
'
... 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, September 4, 2007 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Hardwood & hard times 

Coach went to Kuwait as part of usa tour; lost good friend Prosser 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Ediwr 
Whnn Mik1~ Brny wont to Camp Arif.ian. Kuwait, with his f"rinnd, former Wakn Forest basketball coach Skip Prosser, in early .July. lw was struck by tlw intense and imnwdiate reality of" war hn saw in the soldinr's faens. 
lin was shocked a fnw weeks later when he learned Prosser had dind -on July 26 -of a !wart attack. 
"W1~ connected beeausn we had similar backgrounds. We both started as high school guys. So wn had struek up a pretty good friendship," Brey said. "lie and I talked a lot two yours ago wh1~n wn wnre both having tough years and he was having a rnally tough year. Of 1~oursn, we got going last year and thny had another tough one. 
'Trn not na"ive to think that dons n't takn ils to II because wnll. it dons. It is what it is. We all know what wn signed up for and it takes its toll." 
BrPy and Prossnr worn in Kuwait as part of an night-man dPingation to coach teams in Operation llardwood, a basket­ball tournamPilt sponsornd by tho United S11rviec Organizations and Armed 
see BREY/page 22 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
CoMMENTARY 
Tea111 can't let chances slip past 
Wlwn a single goal is the dill(~r­nnen bntwm~n a win and a loss­at least mentally-teams nnnd to r.apitalizn on every r~hanen thny got. 

And dnspiln having 2S dmncns -induding 
I 0 on goal  Fran Tolan  
-Notn1  
Damn still  .)'ports Writer  
only rnan­ 
agnd a 0-0  

tin Friday against unrankml Mil:higan, ending a 32-gam11 honw win stmak. 

"Wn wnrl' disappointnd in thn fiu:t that WP wnn•n 't ahln to put one away," Irish assistant coach Dawn (;reathouse said. "But at tho samo time, WP worn abln to ernatn alllhosn chanens so we worn happy about that." 
Miehigm1 goalk11epnr Madison 
see SHOTS/page 22 

Photos courtesy of MIKE THEILER Top, Irish coach Mike Brey poses with an M-240 aboard a Navy battleship. Left, Brey wears fatigues while coaching an Operation Hardwood game. Right, Brey meets soldiers from Camp Buehring. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles open conference play 
Saint Mary's faces Bulldogs in early MIAA showdown 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD Spons Writer 

Several days arter a fourth­place finish in its season opening tournament, Saint Mary's begins conforence play tonight with a show­down at Adrian at 7 p.m. 
Tlw Bulldogs (3-1) are corning off a second-place f'inish in the Mount Union tournament last weekend. Saint Mary's enters the rnatehup 1-2. after 11nishing 
fourth  in the Monmouth  
College  tournament KRISTY KING/The Observer  
Saturday.  

"Adrian is a good team. 


and they will have a lot of returning players and strong attaeknrs," Belles eoaeh .Julie court." Schroeder-Biek said. "Their Although tho Bulldogs arc veteran setter graduated, more experienced, but thny will have a lot of Schroeder-Biek feels her experienced players on the team is prepared for the 
challenge. "We will be working on the one thing that concerned me 
see ADRIAN/page 22 
FOOTBALL COMMENTARY Where do we go fro111 here? 
Weis' game plans needs consistency for Irish to be succesful 
Saturday was a disastnr. 
Saturday was the worst loss 
sineH Ty Willingham's inept 
2003 squad. 
Saturday 
was the 
worst horne 
opnnnr ever. 
And 
Saturday is 
over. 
Notre 
Dame eoad1 
Charlie 
Weis felt 
like he had 
to come up 
with a sur­
prise new 
ol'l'ensn to 
boat Coorgia Toch. lie knew lw 
had an inexperienced team ­
and in order to achieve his goal 
or winning every game, hn 
thought lw needed to broak out 
some new wrinkles to give the 
Irish a chance. 
In retrospect, that was a mis­take. But it ean still be correct­ed. 
No, Weis can't travel back in 
time and re-gameplan for the 
Yellow Jackets. But he can 
make up for lost time. 
This is a very young team. They wnrnn't going to unde­feated this snason -and they almost certainly anm't going to win out and go 12-1. They nnnd to learn and grow and the only way to do that is to have a consistent game plan every 
Weflk. 
Doing that may require patience. There may be ugly losses, but at least the team knows what it's going to do each week and can concentrate on improving that. 
If the Irish arc conlident in their game plan, they will exe­cutn bettor, which will lead to confidence in their abilities, which will lead to better results. 
It may take a while, but the steady improvement will be obvious, and it might even start against Penn State on Saturday. 
A few years back, when the Chicago Bulls wnrc trying to replaee Michael Jordan wilh a host of' young players. sports­writers dubbed them tho "Baby Bulls." 
Well, thnsn are thn Baby Irish. They aro trying to replace a legend of their own, and thny are nxtremely young. 
Notre Dame's leading rusher on Saturday was a sophomore quarterback. Demetrius Jonns. Its most ef'f'nctive tailback was a trun freshman, Armando Allen. Its leading reeeiver was a sophomorn, Hobby Parris. Thrnn of its of'f'nnsive limmwn worn making their first start­and one of thn other two was a 


Chris Khorey 
Sports Hdilor 
see WEIS/page 22 





