
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

'Rock the Vote' ca111paign planned 
Members hope to improve participation in student government elections 
By JOSEPH McMAHON News Writer 
Troubled by apathy and a lack of participation in student govcrnnwnt affairs, the Council of Hepresentatives announced Tuesday its plans to launch its own "Hock the Vote" campaign to encourage a bigger turnout in the upcoming student gov­ernment elections. 
The campaign will begin Feb. 4 and last until the primary election day, Feb. 10. represen­tatives said during the Council's meeting Tuesday. 
Only :~.492 students voted in the student body elections last 
see COR/page 4 



'Loyal Daughters' gets male angle in co-writer 
By AMBER TRAVIS 
News Writer 
A man will be in charge of "Loyal Daughters and Sons" next year when sophomore Devin Preston assumes the role of co-writer of the play, which focuses on sexuality and sexual abuse at Notre Dame, from senior Sarah Van Mill. 
"I was really honored and grateful that [Van Mill] thought that I was capable of such an important position," Preston said. 
In his role as co-writer -a singular position -Preston will be in charge of any new material included in next year's production. The rest of the program will consist of past stories from original writer Emily Weisbecker and Van Mill, who co-wrote this year's production. 
A physics and film, television and theatre student, Preston will take on Van Mill's duties and conduct a new round of interviews with victims of sex­ual assault. Using findings from the interviews, he will produce the scripts for any new vignettes that will be added to the program. 
Preston, a former Observer sports writer, said he was struck by "Loyal Daughters" and admired its ability to bring to public discourse sexuality, a subject he says is taboo on campus. 
see DAUGHTERS/page 4 

Campus gangs up on Zahm in snow fight 
500 students participate in frozen matchup; quads set rivalries aside, join against the Rabid Bats 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
News Writer 
There on the frozen tundra of North Quad, Zahm stood against the world. 
The combined forces of North and South Quads -traditional enemies in the annual snow­ball fight that accompanies the winter season's first accumula­tion of snow -numbered an estimated 500 hurlers early Wednesday morning and backed the "Zahmbies" into the corner that separates their dorm from neighboring 


Professor discusses sex slavery on NBC 
Carr, human trafficking victim talk to MSNBC, 'Today Show' about forced labor in America 

By KATIE PERALTA 
News Writer 

The story of a 20-year-old Ukrainian woman and her months of forced labor at a strip club in Detroit shocked attendees at a Notre Dame panel on human trafficking in November, and now it reached audiences across America. 
MSNBC and The Today Show aired reports Monday about slavery in America, featuring the young victim -who assumed the name "Katya" for privacy purposes-and Notre Dame law professor Bridgette Carr. 
Carr and Katya, her client, told cameras that three years ago Katya and a friend left the Ukraine to study English abroad. The two young women had plans to work as Cavanaugh Hall. 
But the Zahm residents would not fold. 
Zahm freshman Scott Wilkinsen was confident in his dorm's performance in the early goings of the fight. 
"We're taking it. It's not ter­rible," he said. "It's fine if they want to come and get us ­we'll take them anywhere, any­place. We went over there and started stuff, and they came back here. It's kind of dissipat­ing. We're taking it to them I think." 
see SNOW/page 3 

waitresses in Virginia Beach while they learned the lan­guage, but instead, two human traffickers -Alex Macksimenko and Michael Aronov -picked them up at the airport and took them to Detroit, Carr said. 
The men imprisoned Katya and her friend in a house with 15 other slaves, Katya said. Their captors forced the women to work 12-hour shifts as exotic dancers in Cheetah's, a strip club. 
"We would go to work, work 12 hours a day there. And, and the end of the shift, [at] 2 a.m., [the captors] were wait­ing for us outside of the club in the car. Sometimes they raped us there," Katya said during the MSNBC documen­tary "MSNBC Undercover: Sex 
see SLAVE/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Club23up for sale on Craigslist 
Owner says shooting ofstudents not afactor 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 
Club 23 owner Mahmoud Hussein has put the bar he has owned for more than 20 years up for sale -on Craigslist. 
The asking price for the bar, located on 744 N. Notre Dame Ave., is $695,000 and will get the buyer the tavern's 2,500 square feet of space, the building itself, the 57 -car parking lot, the furni­ture inside and the establish­ment's liquor license. 
John Veit, a bartender at Club 23, confirmed by phone Tuesday night the listing's legitimacy. 
The Observer could not reach Hussein for comment, but he told WNDU that the August 21 shoot­ing of two Notre Dame students outside the establishment had nothing to do with his decision to sell the bar. Hussein said he was tired of the late nights, WNDU reported. 
Seniors Matthew Collins and Mitchell Depree were shot by an unidentified man outside the bar's front door while they were waiting for a ride. Depree was shot in the leg, and Collins sus­tained life-threatening injuries from bullets to the abdomen and leg. 
Though both Collins and Depree recovered, Hussein told The Observer in early September he feared students were "boy­cotting" Club 23 because they didn't feel safe in the neighbor­hood anymore. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, December 5, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Allegory of the dor111 
Socrates: And now lP.t me show in a 
figure how far our natun~ is enlightened 
or wwnlightened. Behold! 
Students living in a single sex dorm. 
I lorn they have bmm since their fresh­
man year. They 
have had their 
Joey King 
drinking games 
dismantled, 
Viewpoint Editor 
tlwir boor bong 
eonliseated, 
and thnir time and money assigned to 
fines and community service. 
All around thP.m are better options; 
and you will see, if you look, a couple of 
apartnwnt eomplexes within walking 
distance, as well as numerous houses 
only a short bike ride or drive away. 
Glaueon: I see. 
Sm~rates: And do you see the crowded 
study halls turned resideneies? 
Glaueon: You have shown me a 
strange image, and they are strange 
prisoners. 
Sm~rates: And now look again, and see 
what will naturally follow if the prison­
ers are relnased and disabused of their 
on-nunpus residency. At first, when any 
oftlHllll is libmatnd and compelled sud­
denly to buy J.,>Tocnries and dean the 
bathroom, he will sutler sharp pains; the 
chores will distress him, and he will be 
unable to sen tho world of which in his 
l(wrner state he had seen.only the bub­
ble; and then conceivo someone saying 
to him that what he saw bnfore wa..<; 
okay lilr awhile, but to be moved on 
from -what will be his rnply? Will he 
not fancy that the bathroom which he 
liwnwrly usml was cleaner than the ono 
used now? 
Glaueon: Far dmmer. 
SmTates: And whm1 the poliee eome to break up his party instead ofthe HA. willlw not have regrets? lie will not irnrnndiatnly appreciate his additional fmndoms. 
Glaueon: Not all in a moment. 
Socrates: lie will require to J.,'TOW accustomed to the workings of the slightly-more-real world. At first he will soc tho old habil'l best, then he may stock a bar, then he will gaze upon the light of the ability to bn belligerent on his own terms. 
Glaumn: Certainly. 
So<~mtes: Last of all he will be able to purdHL'in a keg, and not mere ca..<;es. lie will then proennd to argue that this L'l what gives the season and the years, and is the 1-,'llardian of all that is in the visiblP world, and in a certain way the 1:ausn of all thinJ.,'S whieh he and his fel­lows haw~ been accustomed to behold? 
Glaumn: CIParly, he would first pur­ch<L'>n the keg and then rea..'lon about it. 
s()(~rates: And when he remembered his old habitation, and the wisdom of the dorm and his fellow-prisoners, do you not suppose that he would felicitate him­self on the ehange, and pity them? 
Glam~on: Certainly, he would. 
Sm~rul<~s: And if they were in the habit of eonf(Jrring honors among themselves on tlmsn who had had the best dorm evnnl'i or had been the hall of the year, do you think that he would eare for sueh honors and glories, or envy the posses­sors of them? 
Glam~on: I think that he would rather 
suiTor anything than entertain these 
false notions and live in thL'l miserable 
mannnr. lie would be particularly glad 
not to have endumd the eonditions of a 
J.,rirls' dorm, espeeially Pasquerilla West. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Joey King at jking7@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correc£ our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO WILL WIN THE BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME? 







Michael Eardley Mary Kozelka Bryce Ramos Teresa Hancock Sara Schreiber 
freshman sophomore junior senior junior St. Ed's Farley offcampus offcampus Farley 
"OSU can't win. "Saint Mary's. "Breen-Phillips "Notre Dame. I "The University Because Jim Probably." Interhall like to think ofOregon, Tressel wears Football team. positive." because their 
sweater vests Go Marina!" and Uggs. " 

WU YUE!fhe Observer Though it's past 5 p.m., sophomore Dan Coyne, left, and freshman How Eun Lee wait to see their advisors in the Coleman-Morse Center and register for classes next semester. 
OFFBEAT 
Man allegedly leaves baby to rob store 
LEHIGH ACRES, Fla. ­Deputies said a man left his three-month-old baby home alone for six hours while he robbed a groeery store. Poliee said Tony Doden and his aecompliee, James Sehmidt, were arrested after their get­away ear was spotted by a witness. 
A teenage employee told poliee a man wearing a Halloween style 'Jason' masked robbed them at gun­point and then took off. 
Deputies said Doden had left his three-month-old son at home to fend for himself while he and Sehmidt robbed the store. 
The child's mother was 

arrested in October. 
Police say the baby was found with a severe ease of diaper ra'lh. 
Tweety, Donald Duck summoned to court 
HOME -Tweety may get a ehance to take the witness stand and sing like a canary. An Italian court ordered the animated bird, along with Mickey Mouse, Donald Duek and his girlfriend Daisy, to testify in a eounterfeiting ease. 
In what lawyers believe was a derical error worthy of a Looney Tunes cartoon, a eourt in Naples sent a sum­mons to the eharacters order­ing them to appear Friday in a trial in the southern Italian 
city, officials said. 
The court summons eites Titti, Paperino, Paperina, Topolino -the Italian names for the eharaeters -as dam­aged parties in the eriminal trial of a Chinese man aceused of counterfeiting products of Disney and Warner Bros. 
Instead of naming only the companies and their legal representatives, clerks also wrote in the witness list the names of the eartoons that deeorated the toys and gadg­ets the man had reprodueed, said Fiorenza Sorotto, vice president of Disney Company ltalia. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
0:: 
I.IJ 
:::E: 
~ 
I.IJ 
3: 
..... 
<( 
(.) 
0 
..... 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
~ 

~~o
' $ 
~ 


HIGH 28 HIGH 24 HIGH 30 HIGH 35 
LOW 15 LOW 10 LOW 22 LOW 23 
mascot beat the crap out ofother mascots. " 
IN BRIEF 
The Rosary will be said at at the Grotto at 6:45 p.m. today. The Hosary is said daily. 
Campus Ministry is hosting a celebration of Our Lady of Guadalupe. Prayer serviees held to obtain speeial graces are being held in St. Edward's Hall Chapel at 9 p.m. eaeh night through Sunday. Tho eelebration is eosponsored by the Institute for Latino Studies, La Alianza and OLA. 
There will be NASDAQ training sessions tonight from 6 to 7::Hl in the Eck Visitors' Center. The event is available to students only. Today's topie is "Defining Your Customer Market and Competition." 
The Take Ten program will sponsor loeal children at the Robinson Community Learning Center in a book­mark recognition eeremony at 6 p.m. tomorrow. Local school children who partici­pated in the Take Ten pro­gram will make bookmarks. The Robinson Center is loeat­ed at 921 North Eddy Street. 
The annual football ban­quet will be held Friday at 
5:45 p.m. in the Joyce Center Monogram Room. The fea­tured speaker will be 1993 graduate Aaron Taylor, a two-year All-American Offensive Taekle and Lombardi Award winner. Tickets ean be purchased through the Notre Dame Ticket Office at 574-631­7356. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 37 HIGH 45 LOW 33 LOW 40 
Atlanta 60 I 38 Boston 36 I 21 Chicago 31 I 25 Denver 54 I 32 Houston 74 I 42 Los Angeles 77 I 55 Minneapolis 16 I 08 New York 37 I 29 Philadelphia 36 I 26 Phoenix 76 I 50 Seattle 47 I 44 St. Louis 40 I 37 Tampa 72 I 49 Washington 38 I 29 
Wednesday, December 5, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Snow 
continued from page 1 
By 12:30 a.m. Wednesday, between 200 and 300 students remained in the fight. Participants said the total numbers had been almost double that in the preced­ing hour, though the mounting casualties did not seem to affect the snow fighters' mentality. 
Wilkinsen quipped that Zahm's oll'season conditioning program helped its residents prepare for Tuesday's showdown against its numerous adversaries. 
"We actually worked out in Florida over the summer working with sand castles, working with compacting sand and it worked well. I think it paid off today," he said. 
After several minutes of waiting for thfl right time for an offensive charge -after a reload of fresh supplies of hot cocoa -the Rabid Bats launched their attack. As the South Quad denizens sat back complacently, Zahm ran forward, snowballs at the ready, flinging them with wild abandon at the other lines. 
"We felt that we had the num­bers. Just some tactics we've been working out," Wilkinsen said. " ... You ean't sit back. Just like you've got to take it to the terrorists, you've got to take it to the South Quad people." 
But it wasn't only South Quad people. On the other side of the conflict, Dillon freshman Adam Carlson said the main difl'erence bP-twnen this year's matchup and last year's was the nature of the combatants. · 
"This one is prfltty much every­one against Zahm," he said. "Last year was a· lot more like North Quad versus South Quad. Pretty much everybody hates Zahm, I guess." 
In the fight. Carlson said, he "hit some bros in the face." 
"It's pmtty much the best feel­ing you can have in the winter," he said. 
But Notre Dame's first snowfall stretched far beyond the battle waging up north. Many students ventured into the snow on South Quad to play full-contact football without pads -not quite a Notre Dame tradition during the first snowfall. 
A matchup between an option­style attack led by Dillon fresh­man Hyan Patton and a high-fly­ing spread lead by Dillon fresh­man Matt Seioscia took place on South Quad early Wednesday morning. 
Scioseia. who played def(msive end fi1r three years in high school in California. never played in the conditions he faced in Wndnesday's game. In fact, Scioscia had never even seen snow before Tuesday -except for on television. 
"I did not think it would be this cold." Sdosda said. "It's actually protty fun. but it's freezing." 
Seiosda said he and his dorm­mates decided in the spur of a moment to venture outside and start a game of snow football. although he is excited for the prospeeL<> of a snowy winter. 
"If it keeps snowing like this I think we'll be able to have a lot of fun and a lot of snowfights," he said. 
But not everyone outside early Wednesday morning was there f(Jr the thrill of battle and compe­tition. Some just like the snow. 
Walsh freshman Julifl Zorb and her friends -some of whom also had never seen snow before ­lef't the cozy confines of their dorm for the simple reason of being ouL<>ide. 
"We wanted something to do," Zorb said. 'The snow is exciting." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
Henna traditions explored through tattoos 
Al-Zahra hosts SMC event to teach students about Middle Eastern, North African cultures 
to dye the Pharaoh's toes Al-Zahra member Molly
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
before his burial. In India, Thompson said she was 
News Writer 
brides have henna parties pleased .with the group's 
two days 
In an effort to teach stu­before their dents about Middle Eastern weddings and North African tradi­where they tions, new club Al-Zahra will get tattoos and the Office of on their Multicultural Affairs cele­hands, wrists, brated "Goodness Day" ankles and Tuesday at the Saint Mary's feet. Student Center Lounge. And the 
The day was indeed a day henna tattoo of goodness because it was at the helped educate students center of about the region's henna Tuesday's tradition, collected canned events. goods for South Bend fami­Al-Zahra lies and gave students "a hired Jayshree 
progress toward its founding goal. "I'm happy
'Tve always liked 
with the international things turnout," she said. "I'm
and rve always been 
really
a fan ofMiddle 
impressed."
Eastern designs." Thompson said different students were
Julie Hagopian 
drawn to the
freshman 
event for dif­
ferent rea­
s o n s 
Freshman 
chance to relax a little bit Patel, an Indian immigrant Julie Hagopian, for exam­from the work load," Al­from South Bend and henna ple, was attracted by the Zahra president Mariam tattoo artist, to draw on the opportunity to get a tradi­Eskander said. attendees. Students also tional henna tattoo. 
Eskander founded Al­had the opportunity to have "I've always liked inter­Zahra earlier this year to their names written in national things and I've 
always been a fan of Middle Eastern designs," Hagopian said. 
Freshman Emily Chiapetta also walked away happy with her unique tattoo. 
"I think it's amazing how fast [Patel] was able to pro­duce such a beautiful and intricate design," Chiappetta said. 
Eskander said upcoming Al-Zahra events include bringing a belly dancer to campus to teach belly danc­ing -as well as a fundrais­er that might feature Patel again, in light of the artist's success with the s.:tudents Tuesday. 
Mandi Stirone contributed to this report. 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntayloO I @saintmarys.edu 
educate students about Middle Eastern and Northern African culture. 
She began the event ­which about 30 students attended -with a brief his­tory of the henna plant, 
which has been used in northern Africa for 
"Most ofthe girls 
medicinal and 
said they learned a
artistic pur­poses for cen­lot and they really turies. 
enjoyed taking a 
Henna's 
break from studying 
leaves and 
branches are and getting a henna." crushed and mixed with 
Miriam Eskander
hot water to 
AI-Zahra president 
make a paste that colors, conditions and cools skin and Arabic. 
"I was very pleased," Eskander said. "Most of the girls said they learned a lot and they really enjoyed tak­ing a break from studying· and getting a henna." 

Freshman Emily Newton called Goodness Day "an incredible cultural expe­rience." 
"Many stu­dents have stereotypical thoughts of Middle Eastern and Northern African cul­ture and teaching them the reality can 
hair, Eskander said. help them understand what 
She said the ancient those cultures are really KELLY HIGGINSfThe Observer Egyptians were the first to like and about," Eskander Tattoo artist Jayshree Patel draws on a student using henna ink use the plant. They used it said. during AI-Zahra's "Goodness Day" celebration Tuesday. 
Best Value 1n Town Come See Why.' 
,.. I.nao-o-r/ Ou:tao-o-.r Te.n.nis B..Da Ba:.ske:tba:ll ,.. Free TB..D.ni.ng ,.. Hea:tea Po-ol ,.. Rela.zi.ng Jacuzzi ,.. Ga:tea C'o-.m.m u.ni:t:.v ,.. C'o:m.m u.ni:t:.y Business C'e.n:ter ,.. No-App}ica:tio:.n_ Fees for S:tu Je.n :ts ,.. Clo-se :to-ever:.y:thi.ng_ __ far fro:m orcli.nar:.y! 



Castle1'oint 
. _., . .. . ' .. ~80~~ C2eve2and Bd. South BendF IN 46637 
( ·.~ . 

,.4fJtll 1111f. IIf~f} Ph~~e: {574) 272-8~~0 Fax: (574) 272-8~~4 HIIIT _ cppj _corn­


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 5, 2007 
victims and perpetrators, 
hetero-and homosexuals, 
the sober and the inebriated. 
And Preston is proud of 
those efforts. 

"I feel like the writers and producers of 'Loyal Daughters and Sons' -in the two years that I've seen it and been a part of it ­have done a very good job of incorporating the male per­spective and the male expe­rience." 
Even though it has been written and directed by women, Preston said. the production has made an effort to inelude other angles and that organizers are con­tinuously "trying to make sure we get the whole pic­turn." 
And a male interviewer may succeed in grasping that picture by connecting with male intervinwees in ways a woman could not, he said. 
Preston said that as a writer and intorviewnr he would attnrnpt to make male students a bit more comfort­able telling their stories to the "Loyal Daughtnrs." 
The inter-views, which are conducted every year and are voluntary, will produce the fresh matnrial for next year's production, he said. The advertisements for interviews for nnxt year's production have yet to be posted. 
"Loyal Daughters and Sons" is one of many produc­tions that Preston has partic­ipated in since he came to Notre Damn but this produc­tion will bo his first experi­ence as a writer and inter­viewer. 
"I know it's going to be a lot of work and a lot or (~mo­tional strain, but, at the same time, I am looking for­ward to and anxious to move this project along," he said. 
Contact Amber Travis at atravis@nd.edu 

in different hiding spots, they said. 
Macksimento and Aronov both pleaded guilty, but since Aronov cooperated with the authorities and confessed the men's crimes, Carr said. he received a 
Slave 
continued from page 1 

Slavns in Ameriea," hosted by Merndith Viera. Carr and Katya also spoke to Viera during The Today 
"Emotionally,
Show on Monday morning. reduced sen-in this illegal 
saw that year and I felt it 
They said the men, using a tence. lie has to physically, they could activity," San 
was a great way to bring the 
variety of surveillance meth­serve only four­Francisco 
issue Iof sexual violence at
do anything with us. 
ods on the women, main­and-a-half years mayor Gavin 
Notre Dame[ to light."

That was every
tained control over them in prison, while Newsom said 
Preston became a part of 
through intimidation, threats Macksimento single day in my life in the docu­
the production after seeing 
the play in its debut year of
of harming their families back received a 14.5-for one year." mentary. 
home and violence. The year sentence. Undercover 
2005. 

wonwn wnrn raped repeatedly And while the investigators 
"I auditioned for the play
Katya
and forcnd to perform other men were con­in San 
in October. Then I got an e­
sexual acts whenever the men victed and jailed, human trafficking victim Francisco con­
mail asking me if I would be 
desired, she said. 

"Emotionally, physically, tlwy could do anything with us. That was every single day in my lifn for one ynar," Katya said during tlw documnntary. 
Macksinwnko and Aronov also imJH>sed quotas on thn wonwn, forcing them to make up to $1,000 per night. The two tra!Tiekers used this morwy to pay for luxury vehi­
Carr said Katya's ordeal opened her eyes to all other human trafficking cases. 
"Once I started looking into the case ... it seemed like I could not turn around without trafficking hitting me in the facn," Carr said in the docu­mnntary. "I would find myself driving down the interstate 
eles and designer clotlws, among other lavish expenses, Katya said. 
Carr camP to rnpresent Katya soon after the girls escapnd their eaptors in February 2005 with thn help of' a sympa­

and would see signs for mas­"Saying someone is a sage parlors open from 9
prostitute denotes a 
p.m. to 1 a.m.,
choice. These women 
literally." were prostituted. She said human traffick­
They were held 
ing is a billion­
against their will." 
dollar industry and the second­Brldgette Carr largest criminal industry in the
law professor 
world. She said that more than 
thetic Chnntah's customer. Wlwn thn police entered the house whnre Katya and her f'rinnd had benn imprisoned, they found stashes of cash ­adding up to about $500,000 
COR 
continued from page 1 

ynar and :~.352 voted in the runoiT, judicial council presi­dnnt Ashley Wniss said. 
"It was tlw lownst turnout in 
tho history of studnnt govern­
nwnt," Weiss said. 

Weiss, who was a vicn presi­d(llltial candidate last ynar, stressnd tlw rwnd for ways to sprnad awarnrwss throughout thn studPnt body about the importance of voting. Slw said slw has bPml rPsearching ways in whirh pPnr schools have (HJcouragml studnnts to vote. 
"Wn (:ontacted otlwr universi­tins. including thn University of North Carolina, to sen what we can do and camn up with a scheduln," W(dss said. 
A(:cording to a sclwdule given to COH nwmbnrs, the elnetion datns will be advertised in LaForturw Fnh. 4 with buttons that say "rock the vote" and a similar banner in South Dining llall. Hnsidenee halls and edu­cational buildings will also have posters nmphasizing the importance of student govern­nwn t and playing a role in its nleetions. 
Tlw nPxt day, the candidatns will bn introdue(~d at an infor­mal nwPl-and-grent. This will lw a rww addition to the cam­paign sehnduln, and rnpresnn­tativns at TuPsday's meeting diseussnd whern such an event should be hold to maximize stu­dnnt attt~ndanen. Several possi­ble locations were discussed. i n(: lu d i n g S o u t h a n d N o r t h Dining llalls and Heckers. 
"It would just be sitting, talk­ing and asking questions with the (:andidatPs," Weiss said. "In addition to raising voter 
Victims of human trafficking end up in large cities all over the country, from cantinas in Houston to massage parlors in San Francisco, she said. 
"[lluman trafficking] is hap­pening because men are engaging 
debate will be held in LaFortune. Wniss said a dis­cussion with the 

"It would just be
Ol'l'ien of 

Information sitting, talking and Technologins is asking questions with 
in progress to 

the candidates. In
possibly record the debate and 

addition to raising 
make it avail­voter turnout, we able as a down­
want students to get 
loadable podeast 

to know the 
on iTunes. The following day, candidates more." tlwrn will be a panel prnsenta­
Ashley Weiss 
tion, "Why 

judicial council president
should I vote." Students will also have the opportunity to attnnd a ques­


Daughters 
continued from page 1 

"I saw the 2006 production of the show and I was really impressed," he said. "I thought it was the best play I 
productions have tried to  
turnout, we want students to  Doughty  said.  "The  more  address sexuality and sexual  
get to  know the candidates  important issue than where we  assault at Notre Dame from  
more."  have events is showing the stu­ the  eyes  of  every  party  
On  Feb. 6, the  traditional  dents why this matters."  involved - female and male  

tion-and-<mswt~r session featur­resources," Brown said. "We ing all the candidates. don't want campaigning to be 
COH mmnbers arc also con­mixed in with any business the sidering extending voting sites current administration is trying to several academic buildings, to accomplish." such as DeBartolo and Student government will also O'Shaughnessy Halls, to make monitor the campaigns' official it easier for students to vote. Internet domains, including 
Many COH members thought their Faeebook and MySpace tlw "Hoek the Vote" campaign is groups. a step in the right direction to "We're going to monitor the incmasn student par-tieipation in blogs to make sure everyone is studnnt governmnnt. respectful and following Notm 
"I think the whole effort is Dame's rules," Weiss said. absolutely great," student body 
DUSTIN MENNELLA/The Observer 
Andy Houser performs during November's "loyal Daughters and
prnsident Liz Brown said. In other COR news: 
Sons" in Washington Hall. 

Some COH membnrs, however, +COB also discussed last believe the campaign should week's Collaboration Fund focus more on showing students appeal. All media and non-COB why their vote matters rather members were asked to leave than attempting to strategically the room during this part of the 

Please recycle 
place rnnet-and-grnet sessions. meeting. "I think we're looking at the wrong side of the issue," senior Contact Joseph McMahon at 

The Observer. 
class vice president Chris jrncrnaho6@nd.edu 
17,000 traffick­ing victims end up in the United States. 
"It's not something that hap­pens just in other countries," Carr said. 

ducted sur­
prise inspec­
tions on a number of massage parlors, each of which was secretly conducting sex services using trafficked women. Newsom said authoritins nend to think about trafficking in a different way. 
"I wish our language [about trafficking] could change," Carr said. "Saying someone is a prostitute denotes a choice. These women were prostitut­ed. They wore held against their will." 
But when authorities talk about prostitution. Carr said, they fail to specify that many of the women were prostitutes under duress. 
"They do not mean [to say) that these women chose to do it as a profession," she said. 
An advocate for human traf­ficking victims since meeting Katya, Carr said she is cur­rently working on a number of other trafficking cases. 
Contact Katie Pralta at 
kperalta@nd.edu 
In addition, 
the Council agreed that the same bylaws that governed tho last election would apply to the upcoming one, except for two minor addi­tions. Students will no longer be allowed to work on their respec­tive campaign in student govern­ment areas on the second and third floors of LaFortune. 
"Campaigns are not allowed to use any gov­ernment 
willing to come on as a writer for next year's pro­duction," Preston said. 
Van Mill approached him in an effort to expand the male perspective of the prob­lem. 
"One of our big concerns about this year's show was that we didn't think we had enough male stories that accurately portrayed how the issue of sexual assault and sexual violence really affects the male community," Preston said. "It was very important to [Van Mill and the other organizers[ to try to get a male interviewer." 
And while a male opinion in the shaping of next year's production is something he can guarantee, Preston said that opinion is far from stat­ic. 
"My opinions and my ideas arc going to go through a lot of changes during the inter­viewing process and when I come into contact with peo­ple who have really b.een affected by sexual assault and by these issues that we are trying to tackle," he said. 
Past "Loyal Daughters" 



ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, December 5, 2007 CoMrJuo FROM TI.. !E OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Six Kurds killed in Turkish conflict 
ANKAHA. Turkey -Turkish soldiers killed six Kurdish n)bels near the border with Iraq on Tuesday in a clash that also killed a Turkish officer, the military said. 
The rebels -four women and two men ­wnre killed on Mount Gabar, in the province of Sirnak. thn military said on its Web site. It said the clash erupted after the rebels defied calls for their surrendnr and opened fire on the sol­diers. 
The military said the rebels were among a group of' guerrillas who killed 13 soldiers in an ambush in Sirnak on Oct. 7. At the time. the military retaliated by shelling areas near the border to prevent rebels from reaching bases in northern Iraq. 
Kidnappers post video of British victim 
BAGHDAD -Captors holding five Britons dPmanded Tunsday that Britain pull all its forces from Iraq. posting a videotape showing a bnarded. haggard-looking victim more than six months after the group was kidnapped. 
Tlw purported hostage, speaking clearly with a British accent. identified himself as "Jason" and gave the date as morn than two weeks ago. lie sat under a sign in Arabic iden­tifying the captors as "The Islamic Shiite Hesistance in Iraq." 
"My name is Jason. Today is November 18," he said. alternately glancing at the camera and downward. perhaps at a piece of paper. "I have bmm here now for 173 days and I feel we have been forgotten." No other hostage was shown. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Alaskan medical helicopter missing 
ANCI IOHAGE, Alaska-Authorities launched a search Tuesday fill" a medical helicopter that van­ished while carrying a patient and medical crew. 
The LifeGuard Alaska helicopter, which was heading from Cordova to an Anchorage hospital, disappeared Monday sometime after 5:18 p.m., authorities said. The helicoptnr crew had made a satellite phone call around that time, but it was not a distress call, said Coast Guard Lt. John McWhite. 
A patient, pilot, paramedic and nurse were aboard the helicopter, said Providence Alaska Medical Center spokeswoman Becky Hultberg. Their names were not released. 
A Coast Guard cutter left Cordova just before 
5:30 a.m. Tuesday and was making its way through Prince William Sound, Hossetti said. Bad weather had hampered search efforts overnight. 

MySpace suicide investigated further 
ST. LOUIS -A woman linked to an online hoax played on a 13-year-old girl who committed suicide had no idea MySpace messages to the girl had turned cruel and did not write any of them herself, the woman's lawyer said Tuesday. 
Attorney Jim Briscoe appeared on NBC's "Today" show, as did the parents of Megan Meier. Megan, a 13-year-old girl from the St. Louis suburb of Dardenne Prairie, hanged her­self last year minutes after receiving mean mes­sages on MySpace. 
Briscoe said his client, Lori Drew, "absolutely, 100 percent" had nothing to do with negative, nasty comments posted online about Megan Meier, and wasn't home when they were sent. 
"She didn't find out about it until after Megan had taken her own life," he said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Teen charged with stealing fire truck 
LAPOHTE, Ind. -A sheriff's deputy who saw two fire trucks leave a station when there wasn't any fire caught a teenager who allegedly stole one of the trucks. 
Police said they weren't sure why the 17­year-old LaPorte boy, who was wearing full firefighter gear when he was arrested, stole the truck. lie was being held at the LaPorte County Juvenile Services Center on Monday on juvenile charges of burglary and vehicle theft. 
LaPorte County sheriff's Deputy Steve Pearce was on patrol about 1:30 a.m. Monday when hn saw a pumper truck and rescue truck leave the Center Township fire station with lights 11ashing and sirens blaring. 

Bush: Iran dangerous despite report 
New intelligence findings show Persian country halted nuclear weapons program in 2003 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Defending his credibility, President Bush said Tuesday that Iran is dangerous and must be squeezed by interna­tional pressure despite a blockbuster intelligence find­ing that Tehran halted its nuclear weapons program fimr years ago. 
Bush said the new conclu­sion -contradicting earlier 
U.S. assessments-would not prompt him to take off the table the possibility of pre­emptive military action against Iran. Nor will the United States change its poli­cy of trying to isolate Iran diplomatically and punish it with sanctions, he said. 
"Look, Iran was dangerous, Iran is dangerous and Iran will be dangerous if they have the knowledge necessary to make a nuclear weapon," the president told a Whitn House news conference a day after the release of a new national intPlligence estimate repre­senting the consensus of' all 
U.S. spy agencies. 
On Capitol Hill, congres­sional Democrats said they hoped the report would have a cooling effect on the admin­istration's rhetoric, which they said was hyped and counterproductive. At a cam­paign debate in Iowa, seven Democratic presidential can­didates stood in agreement the program, they halted the reaching out to the foreign Monday's report, the adminis­that the United States should program. And the reason ministers of Germany, Britain tration was unwavering in its shift its focus with Iran to why it's a warning signal is and France, as well as China conviction that Iran was seek­diplomatic engagement. that they could restart it," the and Hussia, according to U.S. ing nuclear weapons. Bush 
"They should have stopped president said. officials. She spoke to Hussian said he did not know about the saber rattling, should Secretary of State Foreign Minister Sergey the new findings until he was never have started it," said Condoleezza Hice, en route to Lavrov, whom she expects to briefed last week -a point Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill. Ethiopia for talks with. see later this week at a NATO challenged by some. New York Sen. Hillary African leaders, said it would meeting in Brussels. "The president knew, even Rodham Clinton said Bush be a "big mistake" to ease "What I am going to say to as he was saying 'World War "should seize this opportuni­diplomatic pressure on my colleagues is, 'Look, we III' and all that kind of stuff," ty." But she also said it was Tehran. have got the right strategy," said Sen. Jay Hockefeller, D­clear that pressure on Iran "I continue to see Iran as a Hice told reporters. W.Va., chairman of the has had an effect -a point dangerous power in interna­Hice urged nations such as Senate Intelligence disputed by rival Sen. Joe tional politics," Hice said. "At China and Hussia not to hard­Committee. "He knew. He Biden of Delaware. this moment, it doesn't en their stance against a new knew, he had been briefed." 
While U.S. intelligence appear to have an active round of sanctions against Bush drew support from about Iran has changed, Bush weaponization program. That Iran, saying the fact that Iran European allies who said the showed no inclination to alter frankly is good news. But if it halted its nuclear weapons international community course. Iran continues to pro­causes people to say, 'Oh well program in 2003 because of should not walk away from duce enriched uranium that then we don't need to worry international pressure shows years of talks with an often could be transferred to a about what the Iranians are that diplomacy works. defiant Tehran that is openly secret weapons program, he doing,' I think we will have Bush rattled some allies by enriching uranium for uncer­said. made a big mistake." warning recently that a tain ends. The report said 
"So, I view this report as a Hice worked the phones to nuclear-armed Iran could Iran could still build a nuclear warning signal that they had explain the new assessment, lead to World War III. Until bomb by 2010-15. 

MEXICO 
Not even entertainers inunune to violence 
MEXICO CITY -A wave of organ­Mexico's warring drug gangs. hospital where she was recovering ized crime violence terrorizing many "What can I say? We are dismayed from surgery for a bullet wound in her parts of Mexico is driving fear into the about this. I mean, we are all in the neck suffered Friday at a motel in the heart of the entertainment business same boat," said Javier Diaz, repre­border city of Matamoros, across from with the murders of several popular sentative of Los Tucanes del Norte, a Brownsville, Texas. musicians, suggesting no one is popular group that often poses with Some fear that singers, whether immune to the rampant brutality. assault rifles to promote its songs and they have any links to drug cartels or 
Most disquieting were the weekend violence-filled videos. not, are routinely "adopted" by drug slayings of two singers who had Although not known for songs glam­gangs, which post Internet videos crooned only about love and loss, not orizing the drug business, Gomez had showing their members torturing and drugs and guns like some "narcocorri­reportedly received death threats urg­executing rivals to sound tracks of pop­do" celebrities killed in the past. ing him not to appear in the capital of ular tunes. 
The murders of Sergio Gomez, lead the western state of Michoacan, a hot "It really has people worried, performer for the top-selling group K­bed of the drug trade where he was because you never know if you go to a Paz de Ia Sierra, and Zayda Pena of tortured before being strangled concert, what will happen, whether the group Zayda and the Guilty Ones Sunday. somebody might get shot," said Pablo has mainstream singers worrying they Pena was killed with similar brutali­Zuack, press coordinator for may become targets by becoming ty the previous day. Gunman fired an Bandamax, a cable TV channel spe­identified with one or another of execution-style gunshot into her at the cializing in northern Mexican music. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, December 5, 2007 
·=--~~~~~~~~~========~~==~~~~~~~~====~~~~~~~~~~= 
CANADA 



Canadian ambassador to country ordered to leave 
Removal arises after rejection ofcandidates to represent Islamic republic in Ottawa; Tehran embassy now run by No. 2 diplomat 
presented," he said. operations, the release said. Mohammad Khatami, a Mohcbi, the Iranian charge
Associa1ed Press 

Thn statement did not The diplomatie slap eame reformist, found that d'affaires, said he hoped a 
TOHONTO Iran has explain why the Iranian can­one day after the Iranian Kazemi, 54, died of a frac­resolution of the case would ordnrnd Canada's ambassa­didates had been unaccept­charge d'affaires expressed tured skull and lead to a warm­dor to lnavn the country, the able to Canada. The frustration that his country's brain hemor-ing of relations. Can ad ian fornign minister Canadian ambassador to overtures to Canada were rhage caused C a n a d a
"fran hasn't 

said. af"ter Canada rnjected Iran, .John Mundy, was being ignored by the by a "physical recalled its
measured up to our

candidates Tehran had pro­recently appointed but had Canadian government. attack." ambassador in posnd to reprnsent the not yet had his eredentials Seyed Mahdi Mohebi said Prosecutors standards for full 2003 to protest lslarnie Hopublic in Ottawa. accepted. in an interview with The filed charges how Iran was
and normal 

Tho two countrins have "Iran has been refusing to Canadian Press that he has against a dealing with
partnership for some

trind to como to an agree­let our ambassador present twice asked for a resumption secret agent the case. ment on an exchange of his credentials and thereby of high-level contacts up to who interro­time given their "Iran hasn't ambassadors for some time. fully assume his duties," the foreign minister level. gated Kazemi human rights record, measured up to 
"Unfortunately, Foreign Calls to the Iranian while she was our standards
the Kazemi case, the

wn havn as ynt Affairs Embassy were not immedi­in custody, but for full and been unable to spokesman ately returned Monday. those charges nuclear issue. " normal part-accept the candi­Shaun Tinkler Helations between the two were later nership for
"fran has been
datns Tehran has s a i d countries have been frosty dropped. some time
Shaun Tinkler

submitted," refusing to let our "They've since former Canadian The more given their
spokesman

Foreign Affairs ambassador decided to ambassador Ken Taylor conservative human rights Minister Maximo downgrade helped spirit Amerieans out judiciary Canadian Foreign Affairs record, ·the
present his 
Bernier said in a our rela­of the U.S. Embassy in 1980 rejected the Kazemi case. statement late credentials and tions." before they could be taken presidential the nuclear Monday. thereby fully assume Bernier said hostage shortly after the finding, saying that Kazemi issue," Tinkler said. 
uWP b(~lievc the Canadian Iranian revolution. died in an accidental fall Iran is embroiled in a
his duties." 
that the expul­Embassy in Hecently, Iran's supreme when her blood pressure standoff with the West over sion of our Iran now will court ordered a review of the dropped during a hunger its nuclear program. It has ambassador is Shaun Tinkler be headed by death of Zahra Kazemi, a strike. refused demands to halt ura­an un fortuna to spokesman the charge Canadian photojournalist A former Iranian army doc­nium enrichment, a process and unjustifind Canadian Foreign Affairs d'affaires, the who died in custody after tor has said he examined that can be used to manufac­consnqunncfl of No. 2 diplo-being arrested while taking Kazemi and observed ture fuel for nuclear this situation. As mat. Both photographs outside a injuries that could only have weapons. Iran insists it always, Canada countries will Tehran prison in 2003. been caused by torture and needs enrichment technology remains prcparHd to receive eontinue to maintain After her death, a commit­rape. The doctor later to produce fuel for atomie an Iranian ambassador pro­embassies in the respective tee appointed by then­received political asylum in reactors that will generate vidnd a suitable candidate is capitals and conduct normal Iranian President Canada. electrieity. 
In northern Rockies, grizzlies are back attacking hun1ans 
Montana Fish, Wildlife and Parks commissioner calls for population control, federal Fish and Wildlife Seroice says 'not yet' 
whether females breed at an ade­some severely. At least five griz­An estimated 600 grizzlies in and Yellowstone Coalition, noted that
Assoda1ed Press 

quate rate, and how many are zlins were killed, either during the around Yellowstone this spring spikes in bear attacks gennrally 
Bli.LINGS, Mont. -Nearly killed crossing highways or in attacks or later by wildlife agents. became the first of thnir speeics in coincide with a shortage of' food extinct la..-;t eentury, f.,l"fizzly bears other human-rHlatHd aceidenL-;. Servheen said it would be a the lower 48 states to lose their or othnr unfavorabh~ environmen­arn hack in a big way in the Workman's dose call was the mistake to link the run-ins to a threatened species status. tal conditions. nortlwrn Hockins -rising in latest in a string of bnar attaeks dncision on whether protections Even there, a hunt is at lna'it a This year, for examplfl, drought numbers. pushing into nnw terri­and nflar misses this year in should be lifted. year away and would likely be in the Yellowstone area forced torins and mauling huntnrs who Montana and portions of Idaho "That wouldn't have changed eapp!ld at just a few animals, said bears to roam l'artlwr and stay stumbln a!"ross tlwm in the wild. and Wyoming near Yellowstone what happened to Mr. Workman Chris Smith, chief of stall" fi1r the out longer in snareh of bnrries, 
Whiln stall~ and fi1dnral oflidals National Park. While there is no in any way shape or form," he state wildlife department. insects and other food befim1 win­laud tlw boar's !"omnback. othnrs eomprelwnsivn data on grizzly­said. "If' you walk closn to a bnar Conservation groups say more ter. say it's limn to lift the rnmaining human eonflicts, an Associated that's over a earcass, it doesn't could be done to prevent bear­"What we don't want to do is protndions that helped them Prnss tally shows at least a dozen eare if it's a dnlisted bear or not. human conflicts without simply have a hunt and knock the num­remvnr. Tlwy point to recent griz­grizzly bear attacks reported It's going to charge." culling the grizzlies' population. bers down and thnn find out zly nneountnrs <L<; evidence. sinen April. One bnar population is aln~ady Craig K1mworthy, conservation we're still having thn same num­
"Wn'vn got grizzly boars nating Seven people were injured, moving toward possible hunting. director for the Greater ber of conflicL'>," Knnworthy said. pnopln who 1:omn lwrn to hunt." 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Wednesday, December 5, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow .Jones  13,248.73  -65.84  
Up:  Same:  Dawn:  Composite Volume:  
1,188  79  2,187  3,347,334,211  
AMEX  2,337;01  -1454  

NASDAQ 2,619.83 -17.30 NYSE 9,784.38 :':63.48 S&P 500 1,462.79 -9.63 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 15,388.87 "-91.32 FTSE 100 {London) 6,315.20 -71.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.89 -1.320 146.36 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.41 -0.21 50.67 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -2.21 -0.61 26.96 SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIR!) -2.93 -0.11 3.64 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE -0.15 -0.006 3.889 13-WEEK BILL -0.68 -0.020 2.980 30-YEAR BOND -0.18 -0.008 4.346 5-YEAR NOTE -0.33 -0.011 3.277 

Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.99 88.32 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +12.90 807.60 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.18 89.55 

Exchange Rates 
YEN 109.8550 EURO 0.6778 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0135 BRITISH POUND 0.4865 
IN BRIEF Toys continue to fail lead testing 
DETROIT-Tests on more than 1,200 chil­drens products, most of them still on store shelves, found that 35 percent contain lead ­many with levels far above the federal recall standard used for lead paint. 
A Hannah Montana card game case, a Go Diego Go! backpack and Circo brand shoes were among the items with excessive lead levels in the tests performed by a coalition of environ­mental health groups across the country. 
Only 20 percent of the toys and other products had no trace of lead or harmful chemicals, according to the results being released Wednesday by the Michigan-based Ecology Center along with the national Center for llealth, Environment and Justice and groups in eight other states. 
Of the 1,268 items tested, 23 were among mil­lions of toys recalled this year. 
Mattei Inc. recalled more than 21 million Chinese-made toys on fears they were tainted with lead paint and tiny magnets that children could accidentally swallow. Mattei's own tests on the toys found that they had lead levels up to 200 times the accepted limit. 

U.S. looks to strengthen power grid 
WASHINGTON -Energy officials announced Tuesday they will re-examine a decision to declare a large swath of the mid-Atlantic and two Southwest states a priority area for new power lines -a nod to those fighting proposed lines in their communities. 
The Energy Department said it would grant a rehearing on its October decision to deelare two areas of the country as "national interest electric transmission corridors," a new legal designation designed to foster greater power line con­struction in order to ease the threat of blackouts.· 
Local groups often resist such proposed lines in their communities, saying they are ugly, unnecessary, and diminish the quali­ty of life. Advocates for the corridor law say it's necessary to avoid future black·· outs as the nation's energy grid ages and demand for electricity rises. 

Writers' strike reaches fifth week 
Negotiations resume after four-day recess as networks prepare for spring season 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -The TV industry braced Tuesday for what could become a long strike by writers, even as both sides returned to the bargaining table. 
Leslie Moonves, chief exec­utive officer of CBS Corp., told an investor conference in New York that he was hopeful, but "not terribly optimistic." 
The two sides conceded there was likely to be ratings shortfalls if the five-week strike dragged on, Moonves said. Programming costs would fall as well, resulting in no significant financial impact to the network in the short to medium term, Moonves said. 
Bargaining resumed in Los Angeles after a four-day recess, with a relatively scant $21 million separating con­tract proposals by studios and striking Hollywood writ­ers. 
The more telling figure involves the $20,000-plus that writers now earn for a single network rerun of a TV episode and the $250 the studios are offering for a year's online reuse of an hourlong show. That repre­sents the chasm between the old business order and bur­geoning new media faced by negotiators as they try to end serial-killer drama. However, Marc Berman, grams streamed for free on the strike, now in its fifth The shows will be edited an analyst for Mediaweek, the Web and jurisdiction over week. for network use, a CBS noted that networks have shows made for the Internet. 
The strike has shut down spokesman said. been cutting back on pilots It said the offer constituted a production on dozens of The walkout could soon for several years to save "massive rollback." prime-time and late-night affect the development of money. The writers said their plan, shows, sending a number of pilot episodes, which net­Last Thursday, before also presented Thursday, programs into reruns. works use to determine negotiations recessed, the would cost producers $151 
Still, Moonves said CBS which series they will order Alliance of Motion Picture million over three years. viewers will be served. for the next season. The and Television Producers Details of that plan were not 
"We are prepared to have process typically begins early said it was willing to offer publicly disclosed. a full schedule" in the spring, in the year. $130 million in extra pay However, citing an uniden­he said. "We're certainly not "If the strike is protracted, over the life of its proposed tified person close to guild going to go dark." pilot season will be potential­three-year deal, on top of the negotiators, the Hollywood 
He said the schedule will ly ruined. Everything starts $1.3 billion already paid Reporter trade publication include programs from from the script," said Matt annually to writers. said the union was proposing Showtime, the network's sis­Edelman, a film and TV pro­The Writers Guild of fixed compensation rates ter cable channel that offers ducer who now is chief exec­America countered by saying that also are graduated in daring fare including utive officer of a lifestyle Web the proposal only addressed increments tied to viewer­"Weeds" and "Dexter," a site, PeopleJam Inc. advertising-supported pro-ship. 


Bush threatens to veto new Medicarebill 
risk of covering the patient's health est cuts. Leavitt's veto threat was
Associated Press 

needs. But some believe the insurers issued in a letter to the committee's are overpaid. chairman, Sen. Max Baucus, D­
WASHINGTON -The Bush admin­Health and Human Services Mont., and the ranking Republican, istration on Tuesday threatened to Secretary Mike Leavitt said a veto Sen. Charles Grassley of Iowa. veto any legislation that cuts pay­would be recommended for any leg­A congressional aide to Baucus ments to private insurers as a way to islation that results in a loss of bene­said he's heard from Leavitt directly, give physicians more money when fits or choices for the more than 8 in addition to receiving Tuesday's treating Medicare patients. million participants in the Medicare letter, and the senator looks forward 
Beginning Jan. 1, physicians face a Advantage program. Insurers have to hearing from the administration 10 percent pay cut when treating the warned that payment cuts would once more specifics on the Medicare elderly and disabled. If that occurs, negatively affect benefits. bill are released. doctors warn that some in their Leavitt said a veto would also be At a news conference earlier ranks will quit seeing new Medicare recommended if legislation raises Tuesday, advocacy groups called on patients. Congress has intervened in taxes to pay for spending increases, the Senate to trim payments to recent years to make sure similar overturns rules or regulations insurance companies. cuts didn't go into effect, and is like­designed to restrain Medicare and "While the president chides ly to do so again this year. However, Medicaid spending, or overturns fea­Congress for 'wasteful Washington it has to find a way to pay for the fix. tures of the new Medicare prescrip­spending,' at the same time he and 
Democratic lawmakers say the tion drug benefit. his allies continue to deffmd provid­best place to start would be by curb­Earlier this year, the House passed ing billions of dollars in subsidies to ing payments to private insurers that legislation that would trim payments the insurance industry," said Max provide health insurance coverage to to insurers by $54 billion over five Richtman, executive vice president the elderly. In the program, called years. The Senate Finance of The National Committee to Medicare Advantage, the govern­Committee is expected to take up Preserve Social Security and ment pays insurers for taking on the legislation seeking much more mod-Medicare. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Wednesday, December 5, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Restoring the constitutional republic 
I~(). !lux 779, Nom: Dame, IN 46556 0211 South Dining ll.tll, Nmr< Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CIIIH 
M>lddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Ken Fowler Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
Ass·l~ MANAt;ING EDITOR: Mary Katt· Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Ka rm Langley 
VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: }ot'Y King 
SJ>OIUS EDITORS: Chris Khorcy 
Chris I line ScENE EnrroR: Tat• Andrews 
SAINT MAllY's ElliTOR: Katie Kohler 
i'HOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
AllVER:I'ISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AD Oii.~IGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CoNTROlLER: Tim Sobolewski 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRAHlR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO ('i74) 6:31-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6'>27 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EOITOR ( 'i 74) 6.3 1-4 541 ol"me~hlll.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-'iJU NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.I@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
('i74) 631-4'543 spons.I@nd.cdu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
srnc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.cdu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper publisht-d in prim and online by the srudems of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's 
In today's political discourse, it is pop­ular to tmat the concept of "democracy" with a degme of reverence befitting six­pound. eight-ounce baby .Jesus. It is as if the ballot box has taken on a supernatu­ral mystique usual­ly reserved for Mark Poyar duct tape, big­screen IID TVs and 
Actual
Dallas Cowboy 
Common Sense 
cheerleaders. Every few years, millions of Americans pay homage at the dmnoeratic altar while casting their bal­lot for the seemingly less moronic politi­cian of their choice. It is an American tradition, on par with the great Catholic traditions of old. 
Our president is certainly not one to hmak tradition. No one really knows for certain whether the real reason the U.S. invaded Iraq was to get rid of Saddam llussein's apparent stockpile of WMDs as originally claimed. but the president knows one thing for sure: We're "spreading democracy" in Iraq. and that's something the U.S. should be darn proud of. 
Lest the American public forget this point, the president decided to name our little overseas excursion "Operation Iraqi Frm~dom." Apparently, he sees absolutely no difference between democracy and freedom. In his 2004 State of tho Union Address, the presi­dent said, "we also hear doubts that democracy is a realistic goal for the greater Middle East, where freedom is rare" and, "as democracy takes hold in Iraq, the. enemies of freedom will do all in their power to spread violence and fear." 
But is democracy freedom, as many maintain without giving it a second thought? What did the founding fathers think about democracy? Does democra­cy deserve as much praise at it receives? 
The founders viewed democracy with outright distrust. President John Adams said, "[r]emember, democracy never lasts long. It soon wastes, exhausts, and murders itself. There never was a democracy yet that did not commit sui­eide." Similarly, James Madison wrote in the Fed1~ralist Papers that in a pure democracy, "there is nothing to check the inducement to sacrifice the weaker party or the obnoxious individual." Edmund B.andolph said at the Constitutional Convention that "in trac­ing these evils to their origin every man had found it in th1~ turbulence and follies of democracy." The word "democracy" is notoriously absent in the Deelaration of Independence, the Constitution or the Pledge of Allegiance. 
There were a number of reasons why the founders feared democracy. Most importantly, the founders viewed free­dom and individual rights as the most important political ends. Thomas Jefl'erson famously wrote in the Deelaration of Independence that men "are endowed by their Creator with cer­tain unalienable nights. that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness." Similarly, John Adams said that individuals have "rights antecedent to all earthly governments; rights that cannot be repealed or restrained by human laws; rights derived from the Great Legislator of the Universe." 
People should be free to act as long as they don't harm others or their property. They believed that it was the job of gov­ernmlmt to secure these rights. They knew that individual rights, and there­fore freedom, would not be safe within a dernocraey. 
In a democracy, the rights of individu­als were not protected but were subject to the whims of the majority, or as Madison said, "there is nothing to check the inducement to sacrifice the weaker party or the obnoxious individual." If the majority felt like seizing an individual's property or violating his other rights, there was nothing to stop the majority. Without proteetions in place securing the rights of the people, a democracy would almost certainly end up violating the rights of individuals and destroying their freedom. It was with this thought in mind that they created a Constitutional republic. 
They knew that democratic majorities acting through the government worn likely to try to violate the rights of minorities. Consequently, the founders wrote the Constitution to plaen wnll­defined limits on what the newly cwatNI fednral governnwnt could and eouldn't do. It guaranteed certain fundamental rights from infringement from the gov­ernment such as freedom of speech. freedom of the prnss and the right to bear arms. 

Although the people democratically elected reprnsentatives to aet on thnir behalf. they wern unable to aet on cer­tain subject matters and had to respnct the rights outlined in the Constitution. Cheeks and balances further limited the power of majorities. As a wise man once said, in a democracy, two wolves and a sheep takn a majority vote on what's for supper, but in a constitutional rnpuhlie, the wolves are forbidden on voting on what's for supper, and the sheep are well armed. 
UnliJrtunatnly, the United States is, for all intents and purposes, no longer a Constitutional republic. Congrnss rou­tinely exceeds its defined and enumerat­ed powers list1~d in the Constitution. It can do nearly anything it wants. from spending money on Social Security or health care ( ncitlwr of whkh tim Constitution gives Congrnss the power to do) to spying on pnople without war­rants. 
When the government ean do anything it wants by majority vote, including tax­ing everything under the sun, it's hardly a wonder that people are much less free to do as they pleas1~. Hestoring the Constitutional republic by actually enforcing the Constitution as written would go a long way in restoring free­dom onee again. 
Mark Poyar is a junior finance major and vice president ofthe College Libertarians. Their Web site is http://ndlibertarians. blogspot. com. 1/e can be contacted at mpoyar@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily The Observer. 
College. Editorial comenr, including advenisemems. is not govcnwd by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
EDITORIAL CARTOON
advrnisernenrs based on content. Tht· mws is reponed as acClrrately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned t•ditorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and dcpartmem editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views of tht· audwrs and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available w all readers. The fret• expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. Lcttl·rs to the Editor must be signed and must include comact information. 
Qumions rrgarding Obsm•fr policies should be dirm(d to l::.aitor in ChiifMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Thr OhiK'tvcr !U~I 1\ 'i')'J !-•UIIIO) ., puhli..hnl Mund.t.)' chruug.h Fr1d.1y UC1:pt1iuriutt cXJIII .mtl vauuunJlCf~tHk A ,uba.,nl'""n'" ·n,e Olll(rvn is $!Uti f11r unc ;~culcmk yco~r: 1i~'i for unr 'll'tnnlcr. 
The ( )hwrvcr i• puhli1!1cd .u POSTMASTeR 
014 Smuh Onu11~ t1.!11 ~nd ;ddrcu corrccrium ru; 
Nnm: D.t.mc. IN 16'5'5C•-0:'7'l TheOb!l(rvcr 
1\ruM.hu.l vmt.&gr p.ud .u Nu1rc O;um· 1~0. 8o1 779 
Jnd Jtldicionalm.uhn~toAicc' Ol4 Snurh ["lining llo~ll 
Nott't' IJ,unc, IN 41\'55(1..0779 

'11u: ( liKt-tvCI ito .t mem~r ur !he-A"•ll"ll11cd Pre.. All rcprodumun righa .UC' 
tt'toC'tvctl 
caglecartoons.com 


TODAY'S STAFF QUOTE OF THE DAYQUOTE OF THE DAY 

N('WS Scene 

Marcf!la BfH-rios Chris McGrady Mandi Stiron11 Viewpoint 

+submit :a. Letter
Who deserves to face Ohio State 
Dan Jacobs Bethany 
"Dare to be naive. " 
·:t:;::
in the BCS Championship game? 
Graphies Whitneld Madelinn Nics 


to the Editor at 
R. Buckminster Fuller
Sports 
U.S. architect and engineer
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

www.ndsmcobserver.com
.Jay Fitzpatrick 
Bill Brink at www.ndsmcobserver.com Chris Doyen 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Wednesday, December 5, 2007 page 9 
U-WIRE 

Green eating habits mean more than just broccoli 
Just Food, a nonprofit organization that "works to develop a just and sus­tainable food system in the New York City region," held a summit the first weekend of December in conjunction with The New School. I sat in on Mackenzie a series of work­Yangshops that focused on food, farms 
Columbia
and community 
Daily
health. In the 
Spectator
process, I picked up a great deal of green information, all of which Columbia students should know, and most of which some of them probably don't. 
For instance, eating organic produce translates to eating an extra serving of fruits and vegetables due to all the antioxidants and nutrients it has com­pared to nonorganic produce. 
Students might also be interested to know that vitamin content in nonorgan­ic fruits and vegetables has decreased by 10 to 40 percent over the years. 
With so many Japanese food options, both on campus and in the neighbor­hood, students should be aware that fish and shrimp served in sushi bars and buffets are grown in large nets that enclose antibiotics and pesticides along with the creatures' excrement. 
This isn't the only issue with fish. Raising one pound of carnivorous fish such as cod requires two to six pounds of wild fish to be ground up as feed. As a result, the rise of fish farms is wiping out some wild fish populations. 
Moreover, irradiated food -food exposed to radiation to kill off bacteria -does not have to be labeled as such, even if it's sold in restaurants, schools ami hospitals. This is disturbing, as irradiation destroys vitamins, protein and essential fatty acids, and produces chemicals that have been linked to DNA damage in human cells. 
However, due to the driving market of consumer demands, the prevalence of local, healthy food is gradually increas­ing. Over 15 percent of the world's food is now grown in cities. New York City alone has 50 farmers' markets. Columbia, in response to student groups operating under the Green Umbrella, an umbrella organization for environmental groups on campus, is also taking steps toward serving stu­dents nutritional and environmentally­friendly food. 
Although they buy the now-familiar fair-trade and organic coffee, the majority of students are unaware of Columbia's green changes. If more stu­dents knew about these options, they'd be prompted to demand even more environmentally-forward programs concerning not only food, but also the energy and waste issues on our cam­pus. 
This column was originally published in the Dec. 4 edition ofthe Columbia Daily Spectator, the daily publication ofColumbia University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


U-WIRE 


The challenge of hunting for a candidate 
With each new political debate, I get closer and closer to deciding who it is I'm not going to vote for in the next presidential election. 
I also get closer to realizing my vote means very, very little. So little, in Dan Halverson fact, that I'm thinking a write-in 
Daily
vote for "King Arthur" or Nebraskan "Sherlock Holmes" would leave me as satisfied as I could possibly get. 
It's easy to pick out who I don't want. Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama and John Edwards all come to mind. If any of them get elected, I might give up follow­ing politics and just go join the circus. 
Maybe I should do that now, but that's beside the point. 
What about Mitt Romney, Fred Thompson, Mike Huckabee or Rudy Giuliani? 
Eh. Can I hit "Reset?" 
This is really the best the Republican Party can come up with? More than 300 million people in the United States, and these are it? 
But I suppose dispirited rhetorical questions don't get us anywhere. The way I see it, we have three options. 
First, you can latch on to the "most electable" candidate and ride his or her coattails to success. It's like picking one of the two best teams at the beginning of the football season and celebrating rab­idly when they win it all at the end. 
All aboard the bandwagon! I'll admit it: This is, by and large, the extent of my support for Giuliani. I've 
been saying it for months, but if I had to vote today, Rudy would get my vote. He can beat Clinton in a general election, and that is (as sad a reflection of the times as it may be) the simple truth of the matter. I'm even willing to look past scandal and a weak platform, just because I think he is the Republicans' best chance against Clinton. 
I swear I'm not a total partisan hack -I just really don't like that woman. 
Option number two may be a little more appealing to most of us. There's something a bit more dignified in it. 
This route involves going with the mainstream candidate that you most agree with in terms of policy. Obviously no candidate is going to be perfect and no candidate is going to have a platform you completely agree with, but some are better than others. Some are, in each voters' eyes, "more right" than others. Think back to the SAT (and try not to cry). There were a couple different choices you could pick (and sometimes all the choices seemed wrong), but you still had to go with the "most correct." 
Find which candidate you think is the most correct answer, and proudly fill the bubble in after championing his or her cause to all who will listen. You like the candidate, and he or she has a reason­able chance of success. What a combi­nation. 
Unfortunately, though, this strategy, as well as the previous one, tends to only work well in the primaries. By the gen­eral election, it's usually already been narrowed down to two wrong answers, and by then you're already trapped. So if either of these strategies appeals to 
you, get involved early. The first step would probably be to take a field trip to Iowa. 
Last but not least, we have the option I'm beginning to seriously consider; this involves going with the underdog, the Appalachian State of the political world. No, I won't be casting my vote for Sherlock Holmes any time soon, but I just might go with the next closest thing. 
I'm thinking about voting for Ron Paul. Yes, the somewhat nutty doctor from Texas who seems just a bit paranoid and whose foreign policy platform is, to most Republicans, highly debatable. That Ron Paul. 
Let's be clear: I really don't think Paul has a chance to win the presidency. In fact, I'm not even sure I would want him to. I'm far from convinced he would be the best choice this country could make. But that doesn't mean I wouldn't vote for him. 
His stance on several issues, most notably his incessant calls for reduced government spending, intervention and control, are all quite appealing to this libertarian-minded young columnist. The Republican Party is generally thought to consist of fiscal conserva­tives, social conservatives and libertari­ans. Most recently, the rise of social con­servatism has dominated the party. The other branches have fallen nearly by the wayside, for reasons I'm not entirely sure of. But Paul speaks forcefully about revitalizing those legs of the stool on which the Republican Party sits, and I admire him for it. I don't buy everything he says, but he offers an alternative to the other Republican candidates. He offers a shift in thinking for the Republican Party; a shift that may be necessary to undertake if Republicans hope to win any more elections any time soon. 
Paul may not win the presidency. I doubt he will. But if enough people vote for Paul, future Republican candidates will have to take notice. There is a con­tingent of conservative voters out there concerned about the other two legs of the stool. This contingent is fearful that with too much buildup of one leg, the whole thing will topple over. 
Perhaps it's time to vote for Paul in 2008 and lose this battle to the Democrats but hope the Republican Party hits "Reset" and comes back in 2012 with a new sense of what it should stand for. A "lose the battle to win the war" political mentality, so to speak. It's something to consider, anyway. 
It's not difficult for us to pick out who we don't want to vote for. In a world full of negative campaigning and tainted candidates, that's the easy part. 
The challenge is in finding someone you're willing to support. As citizens of the United States, however, it's some­thing we all ought to do. 
So good luck and happy hunting; November will be here before you know it. 
This column was originally published in the Dec. 4 edition of the Daily Nebraskan, a publication of the University ofNebraska. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
_ 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 10 
Wednesday, December 5, 2007 
Photo courtesy hollywoodjesus.com This movie Is classic. We all grew up loving how Tim Allen explained all the secrets of Santa and answered all our great Christmas questions. How does Santa get around the world In one night? Seconds become minutes, minutes become hours, etc. How does Santa fit down the chimney? He magically shrinks until he fits. Plus, who doesn't love the idea of waking up to find your dad is Santa Claus? This is a classic movie because it is the ultimate Christmas fantasy of our generation. It's funny, and we can relate to it. Even now, it's hard to watch and not wonder if Santa really does exist. And maybe someday we'll get that Weenie Whistle we always dreamed of. 
moma.org 

Many don't consider "Meet Me In St. Louis" a Christmas movie, but here are two hard facts: one-third of the musical takes place during Christmas, and It features Judy Garland's mesmerizing performance of "Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas," which never fails to be emotional. The premise is simple; it's about a Midwestern family and the love they have for each other. Their Interactions with each other are the heart of the movie. But there really are three reasons to watch It: "The Trolley Song," "Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas" and finally, the Christmas dance. Maybe It's Judy Garland's red gown or maybe It's that single moment when all of her character's dreams unexpectedly come true, but the Christmas dance scene stands out from other holiday films. 
i 

'; ) ( 
.: •.) 
This, ladles and gentlemen, is matter who you are, Charlie B about the real Christmas spl when Linus walks across the then explains the real spirit of poetic. The movie was originally made by a little-known jazz composer Christmas gold. Everyone knows Starbucks released the Vince movie a few years ago, and appreciate what happens characters and sing Christmas with-your-family film. 
If you think that nothing says crazy song-and-dance "'""".,,.,..,., Jim Henson-fled version of the Michael Caine stars as the cold a1 whose love of money Is only surpaSi Scrooge's best employee, the humb 
than Kermit the Frog himself. 
The I Gonzo and Rizzo, his tough-talk slew of classic Muppet cha Fozzlewlg, Scrooge's first e appearance. The film also s songs like "Bless Us All" and get you In a Christmas mood, and "Marley and Marley" add to 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Wednesday, December 5, 2007 
page 11 
r i'• . . 
-l IJ' -­
~:~) 
Photo courtesy newsday.com 

catch-all Christmas movie. No has something to teach you s impossible not to be moved and asks, "Lights, please." He in a simple speech that's 
television special with music this animated movie became to dance to "Linus & Lucy." 
Trio's soundtrack from the we've all been able to real children to voice child This is the curl-up-by-the-fire-
Photo courtesy kevinwolf .com 
Most people I know fall in love with "White Christmas" first only to discover "Holiday Inn" later, if at all. I didn't see "White Christmas" until middle school, but by that time I was already hopelessly in love with the pairing of crooner Bing Crosby and hoofer Fred Astaire in "Holiday Inn" -the first film featuring Irving Berlin's classic song "White Christmas." Crosby as Jim Hardy and Astaire as Ted Hanover are perfect comic foils as they compete for the affection of rising star Linda Mason (Marjorie Reynolds) and sing and dance their way through Jim's Holiday Inn, that is open only on holidays. It's true that "Holiday Inn" can be enJoyed year-round. After all, one of Astaire's most daz­zling solo routmes In any of his films is the firecracker number for the Fourth of July. However, "Holiday Inn" is especially enjoyable at Christmas time. You'll know why as soon as Bing sings "White Christmas" for the first time on film, and the whole world melts around you. 
COUrtesy OUOHCliVB.COm 

-...T ...,,..... like frog puppets and you have to have seen this Dickens classic. 
rsr~• ..ntv Ebeneezer Scrooge, lack of compassion. Cratchit, is none other hosted and narrated by sidekick, and features a . Fozzle Bear plays Old Mr. and Animal even makes an its original soundtrack ­Like Christmas" definltelr, funnier songs like "Scrooge ' 
Muppet holiday spirit. 
Photo courtesy garr.ulo.us Maybe It's director Frank Capra's ability to tug at your heart with­out feeling schmaltzy. Maybe it's Jimmy Stewart's sweet and pow­erful performance as George Bailey, a man who feels like life has passed him by. Or maybe we all just feel like George sometimes. But whatever it is that keeps us watching, "It's a Wonderful Life" Is a classic American film that audiences return to every Christmas season. Watching George grow from a spirited kid, to an optimistic youth, to an older and wiser adult through the eyes of his guardian angel Clarence (Henry Travers) feels like watching bits and pieces of our own lives . And Clarence's final message to George-"No man Is a failure who has friends" -rings as true to us now as It did when the film came out 60 years ago. So lasso the moon for Mary and sing "Auld Lang Syne" with George Bailey this Christmas season. Maybe you·n even find Zuzu's petals in your coat pocket. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, December 5, 2007 
NHL 

Senators lose in shootout, extend losing streak 
Lightning lose 3-1 lead in final minutes but win shootout 2-1; Datsyuk scores twice in Wings' win over Canadiens 
Gratton and Filip Kuba scored Just as Redden completed a 
A.<sociated Press 

for the Lightning. Tampa Bay two-minute holding penalty, 
TAMPA, Fla. -The Ottawa has won two consecutive Gratton scored his first goal in Senators arc in their longest games following a six-game 21 games from the low slot off losing stmak in over a decade. losing skid. a pass from St. Louis to put llowovor, the latest loss has ''I'm not talking any nega­Tampa Bay up 2-0 with 8:26 tho tnam feeling a little better tives," Lightning coach John left in the period. about itself. Tortorella said. "We won a big Ottawa's woes continued in 
Vinny Prospal scored in the hockey game against a pretty the second. Chris Kelly lost fourth round of a shootout and good hockey team. Mistakes possession of the puck while the Tampa Bay Lightning were made. They will be making a stick-handling move extended Ottawa's losing addressed." during a 2-on-1 midway streak to seven games with a Alfredsson's power-play goal through the period. The 4-3 victory Tuesday night. at 7:05 of the third pulled Senators caught a break when 
Tho Lightning blew a 3-1 Ottawa within 2-1. Tampa Bay Tampa Bay was penalized for lead in tho nnal two minutes got the goal back just over two having too many men on the but won the shootout 2-1. minutes later when Kuba ice at 13:21, but Ottawa took 
Daniel Alfredsson scored scored at 9:08. just one shot during the power­twice during a three-goal Ottawa's Ray Emery made 25 play opportunity. third, helping the Senators tie saves, including an in-close "It's pro sports and winning it at 3. Alfredsson (1 :57 chance by Martin St. Louis in is the only thing that matters, remaining) and Wade Redden overtime. He finished with 25 but we're in kind of a slump," 
(1 :21) completed the comeback saves. Alfredsson said. "As a team, scoring 36 seconds apart late In the first period, Dany when you see everybody work­in the period. Heatley failed to score on a ing and you see everybody 
"I think we tried hard all breakaway, Brian McGrattan really pulling together, that's a game long, worked it pretty couldn't handle a pass through good sign. That's a sign of bet­good, tried to create chances," the slot that could have result­ter things to come, I believe." game and 11th of the season needed a stronger perform­Alfredsson said. "It's obviously ed in a goal and Tampa Bay came midway through the sec­ance from his goalies than he very nice to see that we got goalie Johan Holmqvist made a Red Wings 4, Canadlens 1 ond to restore Detroit's one­has been getting recently, he rewardPd. We would have glove save on Jason Spezza's When Pavel Datsyuk got the goal lead at 2-1. He also went even farther with loved to have won it in the shot from the low left circle. puck on his stick Tuesday scored 16:40 in. defenseman Andrei Markov, shootout, but we're happy with Holmqvist had 26 saves. night, his only thought was to "Before my goal, we had who currently leads Eastern getting a point." Meanwhile, Hedden played a shoot it. good chances and we didn't Conference defensemen in All­
The Senators have lost seven key role in the Lightning's two That mind-set paid off for the score," said Datsyuk, who has Star voting. consecutive games for the 11rst goals during the first. His Detroit center as Datsyuk scored seven times over the "Maybe he sees himself at time since Feb. 22-March 9, defensive zone pass into the scored two unassisted goals off course of a five-game goals the All-Star game too quick," I996. Ottawa has a two-point slot was intercepted by Jan turnovers to lead the Red streak. "Every shot is danger­Carbonneau said. "I don't think lead over Carolina for in the Hlavac, who then found Wings to a win over the ous." he's injured but his play on the Eastern Conl'enmce. Darche alone in close for a 1-0 Montreal Canadiens. Dominik Hasek stopped 15 ice is not where it should be. 
Mathieu Darche, Chris lead at 3:43. Datsyuk's second goal of the shots and Niklas Kronvall and We've talked to him about it. Henrik Zetterberg also scored We need him to get back to for the Red Wings, who where he was earlier in the extended their winning streak year. We need him to be our to four. best defenseman and right now 
Detroit, first overall in the he's not." NHL with a 19-6-2 record, out­Hockey legend Gordie Howe shot Montreal 34-16 overall, was accompanied by Ted including a 16-5 margin in the Lindsay, Alex Delvecchio, second. Marcel Pronovost and Marcel 
Christopher Higgins scored Dionne as the Canadiens hon­his 11th goal for Montreal, ored their long-standing rival­which has lost three straight ry with Detroit in a pre-game and five of six. ceremony. 
"II' you look at the first 15 Jean Beliveau, Dickie Moore, games that we played, we Jean-Guy Talbot, Stephane played as a team," Canadiens Richer and Claude Lemieux coach Guy Carbonneau said. represented Montreal, which "We made the plays when the celebrates its centennial in players were there, we stayed 2009. fresh on the ice, our passes Current Red Wings defense­were crisp, we received the man Chris Chelios, who began pass well, if we had no play we his career with Montreal in put it in somewhere -we 1983-84, also took part in the looked like a fast team. Now, ceremony along with because the confidence is not Carbonneau. there, there's a lot of hesitation The 45-year-old Chelios was in our game." given a standing ovation by the 
Canadiens rookie Carey Price sold-out crowd of 21,273 when stopped 30 shots. he was announced as the third While Carbonneau said he star following the game. 


CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
CYO CAMP RANCHO FRAMASA  ROOMMATE DRIVING YOU  If you or someone you care about  
NOTICES  SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS­HIRING NOW! Secure your sum- FoR RENT  NUTS? WANT OUT OF THE DORMS?  PERSONAL  has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape.  
mer jobl Camp Rancho Framasa is  GREAT house for rent available  shtml  
2·6 BDRM HOMES.$295.PER·  an inclusive, residential camp,  Blue & Gold Homes  January 1st! 4 bed, 1 bath, 2 mi  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
SON/MO.GILLISRENTALS.COM.2  located in south central, Indiana,  now showing  from ND & near new jogging trail,  PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME·  
Z2·!l;lQfi  operated by the Catholic Youth  08-09 & 09·10.  garage, central NC, basement,  Do not go it alone.  ONE WHO IS?  
Organization since 1946. Serving  Bluegoldrentals.com  NICE! $1100/mo. 503·757·8125 or  
WANTED  campers aged 7 to 16 in various programs. We offer a welcoming  Blue & Gold Homes 2nd semester sale.  visit domerhomes.wetpaint.com for info & pies.  If you or someone you love needs  You do not have to be alone. We want to help.  
staff community in a beautiful out·  $200 P/S just off campus "alumni  confidential support or assistance,  
WINTER BREAK WORK $16.25  door setting. General Staff,  owned".  Duplex apt. for rent or sale. Each  Call our 24 hour  
base·appt., flexible. no experience  Counselor Manager, Inclusive  Bluegoldrentals.com  unit has newly remodeled 1-bdrm  please call Sr. Sue Dunn,  confidential hotline at  
needed. customer sales/service,  Programming, Ropes Course,  apt.,partially furnished, new every·  1-800·No Abort  
conditions apply, ages 18+, call  Adventure and Health positions  Walk to campus!  thing. Rent $400; sale $45,000. Call  OP, at 1-7819.  or visit our web site at  
now, start after finals, may continue  available. All positions start at  Good neighborhood.  574-233·1604.  www.lifecall.org  
during the spring, positions through  $240/week.  3 bedroom 1 bath.  5  For more information,  
the US, 574-273-3835, www.winter·  Training is provided; start date May  Washer/dryer in basement.  bedroom house available now and  jwillys Bar and Grille.  
breakwork.com  31, 2008. Apply online www.cam·  Landlord does the yardwork.  for next school year great location  visit our website at:  Receive 10% discount  
pranchoframasa.org  $750/mo. No pets.  105 Marquette just off of Angela &  w/student ID. Thursdays  
Female grad student with cat seeks  No Section 8.  31. 232·6964.  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg  35 cent wings all day.  
people to rent a house with or a  Questions?  Credit check and  U93 LIVE 5-7pm.  
room in group house. For spring  contact Angi at 888·988-2839, x25  criminal background check  4 BR furnished home, walk to ND,  nant.shtml  Trivia contest. 52885  
semester and ideally through sum·  or e·mail angi@campranchofra·  required.  lg.yd,air,dishwasher, washer &  or see our bi·weekly ad in THE  SR 933 jwillys.com  
mer. csarvert @nd.edu  masa.org  574·250-1266.  dryer. 574-287·4961.  OBSERVER.  Now hiring all positions.  






OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, December 5, 2007 CoMrl uo FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NHL 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pts. last 10 
NY Rangers 15-10-2 32 6·3·1 Philadelphia 14-9-2 30 5·3-2 New Jersey 14-10-2 30 8·2·0 NY Islanders 13-11-1 27 4-5-1 Pittsburgh 12-12-2 26 5-4·1 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Ottawa 16-7-2 34 3-5·2 Boston 14-9-2 30 7-3-0 Montreal 13-9-4 30 4-5-1 Toronto 10-11-6 26 3-4-3 Buffalo 12-11-1 25 6-4-0 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pts. · last 10 
Carolina 15-10-3 33 4-6-0 Atlanta 12-13-1 25 5-4-1 Florida 12-14-1 25 5-4-1 Tampa Bay 11-13-2 24 4-5-1 Washington 9-16-2 20 3-6-1 
Western Conference, Central Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Detroit 18-6-2 38 5-4-1 St. Louis 15-8-1 31 8-1-1 Chicago 14-10-2 30 5-3-2 Columbus 12-10-5 29 4-4-2 Nashville 13-9-2 28 6-2-2 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Minnesota 15-9-2 32 6-4·0 Vancouver 14-10-2 30 6-2·2 Colorado 14-11-1 29 4·6·0· Edmonton 13-14-1 27 6·4·0 Calgary 10-13-4 24 4·5·1 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Dallas 15-9-4 34 8-2·0 San Jose 13·8-4 30 6·1·3 Anaheim 12-12-4 28 5-4-1 Phoenix 11-14-0 22 4·6·0 Los Angeles 10·14·2 22 2·6·2 
NCAA Men's Swimming and Diving CSCAA Poll 
team points previous 
1 Texas 300 1 2 Stanford 288 3 3 Arizona 281 2 4 Michigan 271 4 5 Florida 260 5 6 Tennessee 250 6 7 Indiana 237 7 8 Auburn 228 8 9 Georgia 220 9 10 Minnesota 212 10 11 California 201 11 12 Purdue 188 12 13 Ohio State 179 13 14 Virginia 174 14 15 North Carolina 159 15 16 Penn State 141 19 17 Texas A&M 136 17 18 Northwestern 132 18 19 Missouri 117 20 20 Southern California 108 16 21 Louisiana State 92 21 22 NOTRE DAME 90 22 23 Brigham Young 64 23 24 SMU 56 24 25 Hawaii 54 25 
around the dial 
NBA 
Lakers at Nuggets 9 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 

MIAMI -The 17 -year-old suspect in the death of Sean Taylor was accused Tuesday of firing the shot that killed the Washington Redskins safety. 
A Miami-Dade grand jury identified Eric Rivera as the gunman in its indictment. 
Rivera and his three co­defendants were indicted by the grand jury on charges of first-degree felony murder and armed burglary. 
Charles Wardlow, 18; Jason Mitchell, 19; and Venjah Hunte, 20; were ordered held without bail during brief court appear­ances via a videoconference from Miami-Dade County jail. The three, who stood silently during the hearing, will remain at the jail under suicide watch after Judge John Thornton Jr.'s ruling. 
Rivera, still in custody in Fort Myers, was expected to be transported to Miami­Dade on Tuesday night and make a court appearance Wednesday. One of his attorneys said the grand jury's identification of Rivera as the gunman was expected. 
"This does not come as a surprise," said Sawyer Smith, who represents Rivera along with his father Wilbur. 
The 24-year-old Taylor died Nov. 27, a day after he was shot in the bedroom of his home. Police have said he was a victim of a botched burglary. 
"I think he's in disbelief over what occurred," said Wilbur Smith. "His expres­sion to me was that 'I can't believe this kind of thing happened."' 
Asked how he would defend his client, Wilbur Smith said simply: "Stay tuned." 
Attorneys said the four young men were agitated. 
"He's very distraught," said Hunte's attorney, Michael Hornung. "He's scared." 
Hornung offered glimpses of his client's possible involvement. He said Hunte was the only suspect with a valid driver's license and behind the wheel at least part of the time. He said Hunte did not have a gun and did not know his friends' plans. 
"Just a bunch of friends that evening said they were going to the East Coast, and he went along," Hornung said. "He had no idea what­soever what was going on." 
Hunte is cooperating with police, his attorney said, and would tell them every­thing he knows. 
Probable cause affidavits for Mitchell and Rivera said the two confessed to partic­ipating in armed burglary. According to the reports, Mitchell and Rivera admit· ted entering the home and said someone had a gun and shot Taylor, but they didn't identify who. 

IN BRIEF Broncos' Henry avoids 
drug suspension 
DENVER -Broncos running back Travis Henry won his appeal of a one-year suspension over a failed drug test Tuesday. 
The NFL informed Henry in September he had failed a test for marijuana. He disputed the results and sued the NFL to avoid a suspen­sion. He contended the league violat­ed its substance abuse policy by not allowing an expert of Henry's choos­ing to be present for the testing. 
Henry's lawyer Harvey Steinberg told The Associated Press that he wasn't surprised by the decision. 
''I'm thrilled," Steinberg said. "I always thought we should prevail. I knew that if we got a fair shake, based on the evidence, we'd win. Travis knows and he's absolutely thrilled and relieved and very happy." 
The Broncos issued a statement that said they were "pleased with 
this outcome and happy that Travis has been absolved of any wrongdo­ing with respect to this matter." 
Guillen signs three_:year,
$36-million (leal with Royals 
NASHVILLE-Power-hitting .out­fielder Jose Guillen and the Kansas City Royals reached an agreement on a $36 million, three-year con­tract. 
The 31-year-outfielder batted .290 with 23 homers and 99 RBis for the Seattle Mariners this year. Seattle declined its $9 million option and Guillen turned down a $5 million player option, receiving a $500,000 buyout. 
The agreement was subject to him passing a physical, a person famil­iar with the negotiations said Tuesday, speaking on condition of anonymity because no announce­ment had been made. His deal was iirst reportnd by ESPNdeportes.com and foxsports.com. 
"We have the obvious need of adding right-handed power to our lineup," new Royals manager Trey Hillman said. 
Sports IDustrated names Favre 
sportsman of the year 
NEW YORK-Brett Favre's standout season for the resurgent Green Bay Packers has earned him the title of 2007 Sports Illustrated Sportsman of the Year, making him the fourth quarterback to win the award in its 53-year history. 
The 38-year-old Favre joins fellow quarterbacks Terry Bradshaw (1979), Joe Montana (1990) and Tom Brady (2005) as recipients of the award, given to an athlete who symbolizes the ideals of sportsman­ship. 
Favre, a three-time NFL MVP, said in the cover story of the magazine's Dec. 1Oth issue that leadership is about finding ways to raise his team's level of play. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, December 5, 2007 
NBA 

Without James, Cavaliers can't handle Nets 
Pistons 'Win fourth straight with Billups' double-double; Stoudemire's 42 points, Nash's 17 assists lead Suns over Pacers 
on the road behind Jefferson,
Associated Pn:ss 

who shot Il-for-18 from the 
CLI·:VI·:I.AND -The Cavaliers f'ield and 13-for-15 from the lookt~d lost without LeBron linn. .lanws. and Birhard Jefferson .Jel'ferson downplayed his took advantagn. scoring output. 
.JniTnrson srornd a season­''I'm not too concerned about high :Jh points. Vir11:n Carter that. I'm morn concerned about added 19 and tlw Nnw Jnrsny us bning consistent as a team," Nnts lwat ClnvPiand 100-79 he said. "We had a nice win Tunsday night. tonight. but 48 hours ago we 
.lamPs missPd his third played (poorly)." straight gamP lweause of a Cartnr, who was 7-for-13, sprained hd't indPx fingnr. including :~-of-5 from 3-point 
"WiwnPVPr you got an oppor­range. hurt his lower right leg tunity t.o play against this tnam in the third quarter, but without him, you have to make returned. lie didn't think it was sun~ you go out tlwrn and got it serious. dorw," .Jpffnrson said. The Nets shot 51.5 percent 
lin and Carter INI the Nets on and even got some offensive a IJ-0 run to start the third production from Jason Collins, quartnr. opening a lead that the who had a season-high seven Cavalinrs worn ineapabln of points. rhallenging. Shannon· Brown got the start 
"Hichard obviously was real­in place of James and sparked ly. rnally good tonight," Nets the Cavalif~rs early with some Pistons forward Tayshaun Prince looks to pass over Hawks guard Salim Stoudamire during coach I.awrmu:e Frank said. hustle. Detroit's 106-95 win over Atlanta Tuesday. Prince scored 23 points in the victory. 
.Jason Kidd didn't even play lie drove to the rim on a fast the fourth quarter, finishing his break, seored and took a hard lopsided third quarter and 6-of-6 on free throws in the have helped popularize in night early with seven points. foul. bringing James, wearing a coasted to their fourth straight third quarter. recent ynars worked against six assists and I 0 rnbounds. light gray three-piece suit, to victory, beating the Atlanta "They hit us tonight," them in the second half. The 
Cavaliers coach Mike Brown, his fent courtside. Hawks on Tuesday night. Woodson said. Paeers nntered the game who rarely jumps on his tnam Brown finished with a career­The Pistons won. with bal­"If they hit you, you've got to ranked in the top I 0 in the publicly, exprnssnd disgust with high 20 points and four assists. ance, with seven players scor­hit back, and I don't think we league in seoring, so wtne its JWrl'ormaneP. lie replaced Devin Brown, ing in double figures, led by did a good job with that." equipped to make tho come­
"I want to SIH~ tlwm fight," who was ineffective starting in Tayshaun Prince's 23. Billups made two free throws back. Brown said. "I didn't see any .James' place the last two "It was good. man," said with 1.4 seconds left in the "You go up 15, and the way tough or any grit as a team out. games. going scoreless in 21 Chauncey Billups. who had 10 third period, giving Dotroit an you got up thnrn is also tlw way· Uwrn." minutes in Sunday's loss at points and 10 assists. "We got a 87-61 lead with a full period they'rn going to get it back," 
Tlrn Cavaliers havn lost four Boston. lot of guys rolling." left. Phrwnix coach Miko ))'Antoni straight and an~ 0-3 without llownver, the result was the Detroit won with a strong The Philips Arena score­said. "So you just have to kind tlwir superstar forward, falling same for Cleveland. inside presence, taking a 10-0 board, perhaps unable to kenp of put your seat belt on and to 9-1 0. Thn Cavaliers took a seven­advantage in offensive up, was blank for the start of ride through it." 
"Tonight, I fplt wn gave in as point lead on Daniel Gibson's 3-rebounds in the first half. the final quarter. Stoudemire bailed the Suns a team." Brown said. "We gave pointer midway through the "I was really impressed with At onn point in the third out, but he almost didn't get in to whatnvnr tlwy were doing second quarter. But they could­the job we did on the glass," quarter the posted seore was the chanee. IIo committed his and we didn't fight back until n't knep up with the Nets and said Pistons eoaeh Flip Hawks 75, Pistons 0. That fic­fifth foul with 6 minutes left, late. I'm disappointed that we fell behind 47-43 at halftime. Saunders, adding he consid­tion was as close as the Hawks but D'Antoni kept him in the gavn in tlw way that we did." Zydrunas llgauskas was a ered offensive rebounds "the came to holding a lead. game. 
Drew Cooden agreed with non-factor, shooting 1-for-6 Hawks' forte." Atlanta native and former "lie did a good job," D'Antoni Brown's assessmnnt. saying the with seven rebounds. Sasha The Pistons also won with University of Georgia star said. "That's kind of why I keep tnam has to lind a way to com­Pavlovic was 1-for-9 as defense, blocking 10 shots and Jarvis Hayes had 17 points in him in there. Normally. we pete without .James. Cleveland shot 34.6 percent. shutting down the Hawks' top 17 minutes for Detroit. would take him out if it was a 
"We t~an't just sit back and The Cavaliers could soon get scorer, Joe Johnson, who had Hamilton had 14 and Jason playoff game, but he has to wait for him to gnt back and some help from high-energy only five points. Johnson's scor­Maxiell added 13. learn how to do that." say wn will bn all right when he big man Anderson Varejao if ing average dropped a full Stoudemire shot 15-for-24 gnts back," Gooden said. "We they elect to match a three­point from 21.7 to 20.7. It was Suns 121, Pacers 117 from the field and 12-for-13 have got to do something now." year offer sheet the restricted the low total for Johnson since For much of the fourth quar­from the free throw line. lie 
Brown wouldn't comment free agent signed with the he had five at Memphis on ter, the Indiana Paeers were also had 13 rebounds. bdorn thn gamn on whether Charlotte Bobcats on Tuesday. April 2, 2006. beating the Phoenix Suns at "I felt real good, felt strong," .James' injury is taking longer Varejao has held out all season Johnson ealled the Pistons "a their own game. he said. "I just played my to heal than first anticipated. waiting for a new deal. great team" but added he also In the end, Amare game. I took whatever the lin was hurt Wednesday in a had a bad game. Stoudemire and Steve Nash defense gave me, whether it loss to Detroit. when Nazr Pistons 106, Hawks 95 'Til give them credit, maybe showed the Paeers how it's was a jump shot or an easy Mohammed slapped at the ball Tlw Detroit Pistons are play­a little bit of both," Johnson done. layup or two. I just played my as .Janws bngan to shoot. ing like a dominant team, even said. "It's just tough fighting Stoudemire scored 42 points, style of game, and the team did 
Nnw .Jersey bounced baek when the 11nal score is decep­against double teams." and Nash had 18 points and 17 a great job of playing Phoenix from a II H-95 loss at Detroit tively close. The Hawks couldn't come assists to lnad the Suns to a vic­Suns basketball." on Sunday and improved to 5-3 The Pistons led by 26 after a close to matching the Pistons' tory over the Paeers on Shawn Marion added 14 
searing depth. When Johnson Tuesday night. points and 12 rebounds for the was shut down, the Hawks had "It was just a relief that we Suns (14-4), who have won no backup plan. Josh Smith could make thn plays down the three straight. was held to 13 points, four stretch and get the stops when Indiana nearly made the below his average. it counted, but not a very grati­Suns another of their top 
"Our main core guys, they fying win." Nash said. Western Conference victims. just didn't have it tonight," The Suns rallied in the final The Pacers already had bnaten Hawks coach Mike Woodson minutes. Nash made two free Dallas, Utah, Denver and New said. "There are nights like throws with 1:11 left to cut Orleans. that in the NBA. I just hope we Indiana's lead to 117-115. then Jermaine O'Neal seored a don't have many more nights made a 3-pointer with 42 sec­season-high 30 points on 14­like that." onds remaining to give the for-20 shooting for the Pac11rs 
Saunders credited Richard Suns a 118-117 lead. (9-1 0). Mikn Dunleavy seored Hamilton with leading the Indiana's Jamaal Tinsley 22 points and Tinsley had 19 defensive effort on Johnson. missed a spinning shot in dose, points and 12 assists for 
"Hip has done a pretty good and the Suns rebounded. With Indiana. job on some people lately," the shot clock winding down, O'Neal was playing in just his Saunders said. Stoudemire's mid-range shot third game since sitting out 
Johnson and Smith sat out bounced up, then in with 6.5 with knee and shouldor the fourth quarter. seconds left to give the Suns a injuries. 
The Pistons put away the 120-117 advantage. "My knen is gntting stronger," game by outscoring the Hawks Indiana's Danny Granger· he said. "At least I'm getting 30-13 in the third quarter after missed a 3-pointer that could back to whnre I ean compete at leading 57-48 at halftime. have tied the game, and the the lnvel that pnopln are used 
"They were able to make Suns rebounded to clinch the to mn com pnting at." defensive stops and get out and vie tory. Stoudemire seorod 23 points push the ball and get easy Phoenix's quick shots gave to help the Suns take a (,lJ-64 shots." Smith said. They the Pacers the chance to over­lead at half'tinw. Thn Strns led knocked-down all their shots." come a 12-point deficit in the 66-51 in the second quarter, 
The Pistons made 11 of 14 seeond hall'. b!Jt the Pacers dosed tlw half shots from the field and were The up-tempo style the Suns on a 13-3 run. 


Wednesday, December 5, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
Sixers hire Stefanski as GM 
Former Nets GM will also be team president after Philly fires King 
Associated Press 
PIIILADELPIIIA Ed Stefanski is trading a difficult commute for a much tougher road: trying to turn a fallen franchise into a winner. 
Stefanski was chosen presi­dent and general manager of 76ers on Tuesday, hours after Billy King was fired after 10 seasons in Philadelphia. Stefanski left his job as GM of the New Jersey Nets and made the daily commute from the Philadelphia suburb of Wayne to northern New Jersey. 
The move keeps Stefanski in the familiar Atlantic Division and returns the Philly-area native to his roots with the daunting task of making the dis­mal 76Hrs into winners. 
"I feHl more than ready to be the caretaker for the 76ers," Stefanski said. 
For the second straight year, the Sixers (5-12) are off to a miserable start. 
After playing in the NBA finals in 2001. Philadelphia has missed the postseason three of the last four years and was in the beginning stages of yet another rebuilding plan. 
King jump-started the youth movement a year ago when he traded former MVP Allen Iverson to Denver. He outlined to chairman Ed Snider a three­year plan to turn the 76ers into a playoff team and management seemed to back the former Duke standout. 
King, who was in the final year of his contract, instead got 17 games. 
"We came to the conclusion that we have a good plan in place, but that we needed a fresh approach in the leadership of the franchise," Snider said. 
That responsibility will fall on Stefanski, who grew up rooting for Wilt Chamberlain and the 76ers. His passion for basketball manifested itself when he played at the University of Pennsylvania under Chuck Daly and later coached his high school alma mater, Monsignor Bonner, to a Catholic League championship. 
He admits to still being a fan of local teams. "I die with e v e r y 

Associated Press 

NASHVILLE, Tenn. -The Detroit Tigers reached a pre­liminary agreement Tuesday to acquire Miguel Cabrera and Dontrelle Willis from the Florida Marlins for a package of six players, an unexpected blockbuster trade that devel­oped quickly at the winter meetings. 
In a huge deal that took the spotlight away from Boston's pursuit of Johan Santana, Florida gets lefty Andrew Miller, outfielder Cameron Maybin and four other prospects from the Tigers, a baseball official with knowl­edge of the talks said on con­dition of anonymity because the trade had not yet been finalized. 
Willis was on vacation when he heard the news. 
"I'm in Mexico right now with my family. I'm kind of busy," he told The Associated Press. 
The Marlins also receive catcher Mike Rabelo and right-banders Burke Badenhop, Eulogio De La Cruz and Dallas Trahern. The play­ers involved must pass physi­cals for the deal to be com­pleted. 
"It's very serious, but noth­ing is finalized yet because some issues need to get worked out," Tigers manager Jim Leyland told the AP. 
Florida didn't even approach the Tigers until Tuesday morning. The Marlins told the Tigers they could have the two stars for those six players, then Detroit called back about two hours later and agreed. 
"If it does happen, obviously they're getting two very good players," said Yankees man­ager Joe Girardi, who man­aged the Marlins in 2006. "Miguel Cabrera is one of the finest hitters in the game. He can do so many things with a bat, whether you want him to hit a home run for you, you want to hit and run, work the count, get on base. And Dontrelle Willis has been one of the premier lefties in the National League." 
Detroit had not been consid­ered a contender for Cabrera or Willis. 
"It was kind of like, wow, when I heard. I halfway expected one of them to get traded, but not both in the same deal. So it's a little bit of a shock," Marlins left fielder Josh Willingham said. 
"It's deflating because they're great teammates and good friends. It's going to be hard not seeing them around. I know we got some good players in the deal, but Miguel and Dontrelle are proven big league players, and it's going to be tough to fill those roles. Miguel brings you more than 100 RBis, 30 home runs and a .300 batting average, and while Dontrelle had a disap­pointing year last year, he's a workhorse. He's going to eat up 200 innings and he's always healthy. It will be tough to replace those guys." 
Boston, meanwhile, was focused on Santana, the Minnesota Twins' two-time Cy Young Award winner. Finding the price too high, the Yankees ended their efforts to acquire the 28-year-old left­bander. 
Yankees senior vice presi­dent Hank Steinbrenner had set a Monday deadline for an agreement with the Twins. 
"A deadline is a deadline. It was pretty much done as of this morning," he said. "He's a fine pitcher, but there's a lot of things that go into this. This isn't fantasy baseball." 
Boston had offered the Twins packages built either around pitcher Jon Lester or outfielder Jacoby Ellsbury, but not both. 
"I know there's a lot of spec­ulation that we're close to something big," Red Sox gen­eral manager Theo Epstein said. "Until we reach an agreement, then we're not that close." 
New York had proposed pitcher Phil Hughes and cen­ter fielder Melky Cabrera. The Twins dropped their demand that pitcher Ian Kennedy be included, but the sides could­n't agree on a third player. 
Philadelphia "We may have been Monday was its team," Stefanski delusional at the end seventh in 10 said. games.
of last season. " 
Imagine how "We may have the rest of the been delusional fans felt this Ed Snider at the end of the season. 76ers chairman last season, 
"It's a tough day for Billy," said Brown, now a consultant. 
King, who had been with the Sixers since 1997, declined com­ment when reached on his cell phone. 
Snider did say he hoped the Sixers would have built more off their 30-29 finish last season during which Andre Iguodala and Andre Miller emerge as part of a solid foundation. Instead, they have collapsed under third-year coach Maurice Cheeks and the team's 88-79 loss to Atlanta on 
King made his share of ques­tionable moves -overpaying players like Aaron McKie, Kenny Thomas and Sam Dalembert; showing impatience with the head coach; and failing to find a No. 2 to play with Iverson. Regardless, the timing of the move is curious. 
Snider had never publicly wavered in his support for King and let him shape the immedi­ate future of the franchise by making both the Iverson trade and the three first-round draft picks in June. 
Snider gave few solid reasons why King's time had run out. "We decided it wasn't work­ing, that's all," Snider said. 
Philadelphia has been mired in mediocrity or near the bottom of the East since a five-year playoff run under coach Larry Brown ended in 2003. 
Snider said. 
The Sixers hope 

the surprising move sends a signal to a dwin­dling fan base that the team is committed to winning. Few have turned out this season, as the team's average attendance of 11,960 ranks 29th out of 30 teams. 
"Hopefully they'll see we're making the right moves, they believe in what we're doing and they'll support us," Snider said. 
The team believes hiring Stefanski was the right move. He teamed with Nets president Rod Thorn to reshape Philly's division rival and is known as a sharp talent evaluator who helped bring the Nets Vince Carter and Richard Jefferson. 
"He's been a big part of our success here the last seven years," Thorn said. ''I'm sure he'll do a great job there." 
2008-2009 

Assistant Rector Applications 
for 

Undergraduate Residence Halls and Fischer O'Hara-Grace Graduate Residences are now available 
Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building 
For more information call the 
Office of Student Affairs at 631-6144 
or go to 

http://osa.nd.edu for eligibility requirements and to download the application 
Completed applications must be 
submitted by February 15, 2008 
MLB 

Marlins trade Willis, Cabrera for prospects 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, December 5, 2007 
MLB 
Yankees nix talks for Minnesota's Santana 
Associated Press 
NnW YOHK llank Stninbrnnrwr had enough. Tho Nnw York Yanknns nndnd tlwir pursuit of Johan Santana on Tuesday, leaving Boston as tho favoritn to land tlw two-tinw AI. Cy Young Award wimwr. 
"A dnadlirw is a dPadlirw. It was pretty much dorw as of this morning," Stninbronrwr said. "Jip's a linn pitc!H~r. but fnssional in this game," Smith said. "I don't have any prob­lems with the Yankees. They've been good to the Twins. They've been good to the Twins for a lot of years." 
lie wouldn't say whether Steinbn~nner's remarks were out of plaeP during a negotia­tion. 
"Not my position to judge. I have enough troubles doing my own job," he said. 
Steinbrenner 
was pleased 

thorn's a lot or "A deadline is a that the things that go Yankees
deadline. It was
into this. This retained their 
isn't fantasy pretty much done four key free hasnball." this morning." agents: third Stoinbrnnrwr. baseman Alex a snnior vicP Hodrigtwz, clos­
Hank Steinbrenner 
prnsidnnt and er Mariano so n o f o w rw r Hivera. catchor
Yankees senior (; 11 o r g P vice president Jorge Posada 
StPinbrnnnPr, snt the dnadlirw Sunday. saying lw wouldn't allow Minnesota to play tho Yanknns against tho rival Hp,d Sox in trad1~ talks. 
Nnw York had proposed pitclwr l'hil llughPs and enntnr fiPidnr Mnlky Cabrera. On Monday, Llw Twins dropped lhnir dmnand that pitclwr Jan Knrrrwdy lw ineludPd, but tho sidns couldn't agrnn on a third player. 
"For a while. 
and pitcher 
Andy l'ettittc. 

"We went 4-for-4," he said. "Obviously. I'm really happy about getting tlw four pieces to the puzzle back." 
New York's current rotation projects to have Chien-Ming Wang, l'ettitte, Mike Mussina, Phil llughes and Joba Chamberlain, with Ian Kennedy and Kei lgawa among those in reserve. While there will be piteh and inning lim­
thorn's no quos­its on the
"! don't see us 
lion, thny askPd young pitchers,
talking to Boston
for too rnuc~h." a six-man rota­Stninbronnor too much. " tion isn't said. "To toll you planned. tho truth. toward Pcttitte's
Hank Steinbrenner 
tim ond. decision last
Yankees senior
Minnesota rwgo­weekend to tiatod in good vice president return was key. 
faith. They really did. I havn no pr o b Ie m w i t h tlw m . I t was something we just couldn't do." 
Boston has offered the Twins paekages built around pitcher . Jon Lester or outfielder Jacoby Ellsbury, but not both. Tho Hod Sox become the front-run­rwr to aequin~ Santana, who would join a rotation that already has Josh Beckett, Daisu kn Matsuzaka, Curt Sehilling and Tim Wakefield. 
"You ean 't worry about that. It's just the 
"That would be 
way it is. It will my family bo what it is," awfully nice to wanted to sup­Steinbr11nner port it again,
play in that
said. "Everybody we would con-
new stadium."
has got to do sider it," what they think Pettitte told is best for their Andy Pettitte Houston televi­own team over­sion station
Yankees pitcher
all." 
Steinbrenner said the Yankees also had spoken to Oakland general manager Billy Beane, but not recently. The A's are oxploring possibln trades involving Dan llarnn. 
"That was preliminary and that was a week ago," Steinbrenner said. 
Twins gonnral managnr Bill Smith wouldn't discuss the talks specif"ically. lin also rnfusod to get into wlwther he was upsnt with Steinbrenrwr's ropoatnd public eomments about nngotiations. Whon askod about SteinbrPnner. Smith rospondnd with praise for Yankeos gmwral manager Brian Cashman. 
"I havn tlw grPatost respect for Brian Cashman. lie's a gontlnman. llc>'s a c.lassy pro­
"Personally, 

it means a lot beeause I know what Andy is all about," new manager Joe Girardi said. "It gives you a guy that you can pencil in for 32 starts, and you know that he can handle the workload.... When you have a lot of young pitehers, you have to be a lot more eareful about their work­load and how many starts and how many innings they throw." 
The 35-year-old left-hander could stay with the Yankees beyond 2008. "If I'm healthy and if 
KRIV. "The 
Yankees are 

going to have a new stadium. I know down the road when we get through this season that will be in the back of my head also. That would be awfully nice to play in that nPw stadium." 
Steinbrenner said the team will turn its attention to the bullpen. At times during the Santana talks, it appeared the Yankees were uncomfortable with trading Hughes. They made Chamberlain untouch­abln. 
''I'm kind of pleased what wH'vn got," Steinbnmnnr said. 
Cashman said the Yankees will rmnain in contact with tho other 29 clubs. Well, perhaps 28. 
"I don't see us talking to Boston too much," he said. 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles start MIAA schedule 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Wrirer 

After a 2-3 start to the sea­son, Saint Mary's will play its first MIAA game tonight at home against Calvin at 7:30. 
"We are excited to open up conference play and be play­ing at home tomorrow night," Belles coach Jenn Henley said. "We will have our hands full with Calvin. They are a good team. We play in a very competitive confenmce, so we have to be ready all the time." 
The Belles recently went 1­1 in the Trinity University Thanksgiving Classic, taking S\\COnd In the four-team tour­nament. They cruised past the College or Notre Dame of Maryland, I.J2-44, in the first round but lost in the champi­onship to nationally-ranked George Fox 69-58. Calvin lost its last two games in the MIANCCIW Classic at Hope College in Holland, Mich., this past weekend. 
"I think Calvin is off to a good start to the season," Henley said. "However, they arc coming off two losses against Wheaton and Carthage College. I am sure they will be ready for us on Wednesday." 
Calvin has played Saint Mary's tough in the past, but the Belles have shown them­selves a capable team so rar 

KELLY HIGGINSfThe Observer Belles guard Alison Kessler shoots during a game against Alma on Feb. 20, 2007. Kessler averages 15.6 points per game this season. 
this season. Belles senior guard Alison Kessler has racked up 78 points in five games. Meanwhile. Calvin junior Marcia Harris has posted 95 points in six games. With four Belles averaging more than 10 points per game -in addition to the strong rebounding of Erin Newsom and Anna Kammrath -the Belles will try to test Calvin's defense early and often. 
"I feel we have played some very good games thus far, but 
we still nec~d to improve ~,P;rensively," linn !ny s.~id. l hat has benn our locus. 
Defnnse has been the Bnllns' wnakness so far this season. They are able to score. but when the ball is on their side of the court. Saint Mary's has had trouble. 
"We are still focusing on defending tho paint," llenlny said. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveseiOI @saintmarys.edu 

THURSDAY AND FRIDAY 
DECEMBER &·7 
IAM·IDPM 
• 20°A>* off Notre Dame logo gifts and apparel 
·Complimentary gift wrapping 
• Refreshments will be served 
*Discount only applies to in-store purchases with valid student ID, and excludes textbooks, software, computer hardware and class rings. See store for details. 

IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574)631-63!6 • l'l'llw.ndmtnlng.com 
The Varsity Shop at the Joyce Center will also be honoring the student discount from 9am-5pm. 
Wednesday, December 5, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
The List 
continued from page 20 
to use his blazing speed. The problem is, that's the only pass route Tate could run properly all season. Weis has always said you have to design an offense for the personnel you have and not force them into a system. But Tate, who convert­ed to wideout after paying running back in high school, barely saw the field because his skill set didn't mesh with the offensive system. 
Hopefully, one of two things happens here. 1) After one season, Tate becomes more comfortable in Weis' offense and learns when to cut his routes shorter or make them longer. 2) Weis simplifies his offense to allow Tate to get the ball in the open field in ways other than a go-route. If Tate is on the field every play, he's going to draw attention that will open things up for other receivers. This doesn't apply just for Tate either. This goes 
BGSU 
continued from page 20 
McGraw also said the margin of victory may be inflated because of the opponents Notre Dame has faced. She is more concerned with how many point<; her team allows, she said. 
''I'm perfectly content with giv­ing up a game in the 60s," McGraw said. "What I'm looking for is for us to hold them below their average." 
McGraw said she enjoys coach­ing this team beeause of their desire to learn and improve. 
"They're looking at eaeh game and saying, 'What do we have to do to get better? How can we keep getting better?'" she said. "We worked on our defense a lot yes­terday, and I think we've had a good feeling coming out that we're improving defensively." 
That defense has held oppo­nent<; to 53.7 points per game and forced 24.3 turnovers per game. The tight Irish press has also helped force 12.7 steals per game, which in turn helps fuel their tran­sition ollense. 
Bowling Green's tallest player, center Chelsea Albert, is 6-foot-2. Irish freshman forward Devereaux for all current and future ­(Michael Floyd, I'm looking at you) playmakers on Notre Dame's squad. 
+ 
Don't lose anyone in recruiting -Notre Dame has the No. 1 rated class in the country right now. The coach­ing staff did an excellent job hanging onto to its 21 verbal commitments in such a "Crum­my season. The worst thing that can happen to this pro­gram right now, outside of a campus-wide fire, is for recruits to start dropping like flies. 

+ 
No more back to basics. After Notre Dame's 38-0 drub­bing at the hands of Michigan, Weis went back to square one to try and improve his team. Why wait until the middle of the season this year? Re-teach the basics when the new recruiting class comes in over the summer, and teach the older guys again in the spring. Weis learned his lesson this year. He has to teach funda­mentals to his young squad 


before they start to learn a complicated offensive scheme. 
+ Lastly, and most impor­tantly, develop an edge. Head into this offseason mad. Put Mark May's picture on the wall of the weight room and curse him out as you fight through the pain of getting that one last rep. Do something, any­thing, to get fired up. Without a bowl to prepare for, you get an extra month of workouts. That must be fun. But with proper self-motivation, it does­n't have to be that bad. This way when you play San Diego State on Sept. 6, 2008, you're ready to run through a wall. 
So, that's it. Just a few things on the Christmas list this year. Notice it doesn't say a bowl win. Hopefully, that'll be on next year's list. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

WU VUE/The Observer Irish guard Brittany Mallory controls the ball in the lane during Notre Dame's 77-46 win over Michigan Sunday. 
Peters, at 6-foot-2 as well, and 6­foot-5 centers Melissa D'Amico and Erica Williamson give Notre Dame a size advantage in the post. McGraw said Peters and freshman forward Becca Bruszewski can guard the smaller Falcons players. 
Notes 
+ McGraw said Williamson was probable for the game after hurting her back, which was still sore Tuesday, against Michigan. "She didn't practice yesterday, she's going to practice today," she said. 
+ McGraw will celebrate her birthday Wednesday night. The Irish are 3-1 on McGraw's birth­day during her 21-year tenure at Notre Dame, with their last victory coming against Uberty, 85-68, on Dec. 5, 1999 in the championship game of the Wachovia Women's Basketball Invitational in Richmond, Va. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
FOOTBALL 

Weis: Clausen could be 'son1ething special' 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Associate Sports Editor 
After a year closely evaluat­ing freshman quarterback Jimmy Clausen, Notre Dame head coach Charlie Weis said he has seen early signs of "it" -the indefinable quality that makes quarterbacks great. 
"Let's not rush this, but I think that there's definitely evidence that this kid could be something special," Weis said in a news conference Monday. 
Clausen played in 10 games this season for the Irish, start­ing nine of them, and finished with 1,254 yards, seven touch­downs and six interceptions. But during Notre Dame's final three games against Air Force, Duke and Stanford -both wins -Clausen started to improve in play. In those games, the freshman had six touchdowns, one interception and a 55.8 percent completion percentage. These perform­ances came after Clausen rode the bench for -Notre Dame's two losses to USC on Oct. 20 and Navy on Nov. 3. 
Weis said Clausen's break in playing time midway through the season was just a part of the quarterback's learning process and the two halves were not two separate entities. 
"I look at it from when he got here last year right on through," Weis said. "You know, how it progressed. All I can tell you is he would like things to have turned out a lot better, so would have I. But I definitely like the direction where this is going." 
After Clausen showed con­siderable on-the-field improvement in the end of the season, Weis said the most important thing for his fresh­man quarterback this offsea­son will be to hit the weights and gain some strength. 
"I think that the kid has a very good mind. He has a very good arm. He has a pretty good understanding about the basis of our system that we're going to be able to expand going into the spring," Weis said. "But I think for him, more than mentally, I think that his biggest task is going to be to get himself fully healthy and physieally ready to go and add some muscle." 

Because Notre Dame failed to qualify for a bowl game, it cannot practice again until the spring season begins, but its strength and conditioning pro­gram starts this week. 
Weis said the only other aspect Clausen needs to work on is becoming a leader. 
"I think that any time you're a freshman, it's tough to be a leader or show leadership abilities when you're a fresh­man because it's tough for a fifth-year senior in a huddle to look at a freshman and say, okay, I'm going to listen to everything," he said. "It's a lit­tle tough just naturally doing it that way, although he got a lot of help from guys like [center John Sullivan] and [tight end John] Carlson to make sure that that's the way things went around here." 
But after this season, Weis feels that his quarterback has gone through the "rite of pas­sage" needed to become the head of the offense. 
One of the main things Weis was most impressed with this season was Clausen's "nasty" attitude -something the coach hoped to instill in the 
. Irish since he joined the pro­gram in the winter of 2005. Weis said this attitude helped Clausen adapt to being the starting quarterback as a freshman, despite that he did­n't' have the team experience Notre Dame's other quarter­backs had. Overall, Weis is confident in the quarterback situation going into the spring, a differ­ence from last spring and summer's four-way quarter­back free-for-all that saw three different quarterbacks take snaps in the first game of the fall season. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

Study in DC during the Fall 2008 Elections or Spring 2009 Presidential Inauguration and N e\-v Congressional Session! UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
··.H·····<I~N..GT N GRAM
. !' •• =· < " ~~: "' 0 ' ; ~ ' ' ; • • « • . ' . "''"-1 '
WAS 


INFORMATION OPEN HOUSE Thursday, December 6, 2007 163 Hurley, 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. 
DEADLINE FOR 2008-2009 EXTENDED!!! 
Deadline to apply for Fall 2008 or Spring 2009 is January 23, 2008. First Year students and Sophomores may apply; all majors welcome. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@.nd.edu, 163 Hurley, 631-7251; www.nd.edu/-wp 

----~--­

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, December 5, 2007 
KSU 
continued from page 20 
Irish up four. Af'tnr Kansas Stall~ cut tho lead to two again, hn hit one of the biggest shots of his earner­a 3-pointnr from the top of the key with I :32 rmnaining. 
That shot, which put Notre Damn up by five and foreed tho Wildcats to start fouling, was the diiTornnce betwflen this win and tho lossns to the Bnars and Yellow Jackets. 
In thosn first two of those games slip away, the Irish were in a bad position. They had only one shot to get a big win before 

the conference season and give themselves a resume boost for Selection Sunday in Marel1. 
And thanks to McAlarney, they got that big win. With Northern Illinois, San Francisco, Hrown and North Florida left before the confer­ence schedule begins, Notre Dame should enter Big East play 10-2 and riding an eight-
game winning 
streak. 
The Irish 

games, no one In those games, no came into this on the Irish game having
one on the Irish 
stepp1HI up and not done any­made a big shot stepped up and made thing notable to kill the other a big shot to kill the this season. 
tnam's run. On ESPN almost
other team's run. On
Tuesday, completely McAiarney Tuesda~A1cAlarney ignored them in madn that made that clutch the pre-game dutch shot, and hype-and
shot, and gave his 
gave his team a when they did huge win. team a huge win. mention Notre 
Still, while MeAlarrwy won thn game ~tt the end, the Irish wouldn't have oven bonn in that position if it wasn't for tho play of sev11ral other play­ers-most notably Luke Ilarangody. 
Tlw sophomore forward scornd 19 points and grabbed a carenr-high 14 rebounds despite being repeatedly rnuggnd under the basket while the rnfnrnns turnnd a blind nyn. lie also played solid dnfensn on Wildrats superstar frnshrnan Micha1•l Beasley. 
Zach IIi llnsland and Hyan Ayers complnnwntml llarangody with strong play at tho small forward position. Thny hustled for rnbounds and always had tlwir hands in tlw passing la1ws-nspocial­ly Ayers, who forcml a turnover with a dnflnetion or an in-bounds pass on one of Kansas Statn's f'i nal possns­sions. 
No tr11 I>amn only had th r1111 ganws against "power confnr­encn" teams on its selwduln bnl'on1 Big t·:ast play-Baylor, <;norgia Tnch, and Kansas Statn. After sneing the Dame, they 
mispronounced Ilarangody and McAlarney's names. 
Instead, the hype centered on Beasley and Kansas State's other highly renowned fresh­men. 
Then the Irish proved that experience, teamwork and heart matter a lot more than hype and NBA prospects. This entire team, especially McAiarney, has been through adversity, and it showed. 
When it came to crunch time, Notre Dame's veterans stepped up and beat Kansas State's I'!ashy youth. The Irish were more composed, more elutch, and showed more hus­tle, and they won a game with the nation watching-a game that will be remem­bernd in March. 
After taking a big hit in the Virgin Islands, Notre Dame's season is baek on traek. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Khorey at cklwrey@nd. edu 

AP 
Irish forward Luke Harangody drives during Notre Dame's 68-59 win over Kansas State Tuesday. Harangody had 19 points in the game. 
K-Mac 
continued from page 20 

in their first victory over a major-conference opponent. 
"It's a great victory for us. I think mentally, it gives us a lot of confidence," Harangody said by phone. "It was pretty mueh just like a road game. It was a hostile environment. A lot of people weren't rooting for us." 
Notre Dame lost two elose games to power-conference schools Baylor and 
Hillesland grabbed one of his nine rebounds on Notre Dame's ~ next trip down the floor, he swung the ball to Jackson, who passed to MeAlarney at the top of the key. A confident McAlarney, who had scored more than 20 points in his last three games, drained the open shot from just inside the NBA 3-point line, giving Notre Dame a five-point lead. ~ 
"It was a broken play, and I knew once that ball was swing­ing I had a good look and if that went in, that was going to 
be a huge dag­
ger for us, 
Georgia Tech -McAlarney said.
"/ thought we were a 
at the Paradise "So I have to
lot more mentally
J a m step up and take Tournament in tough than we were that. Luckily, I 
the Virgin in the Virgin Islands." made it." 
Islands in Following a November. Beasley miss,
Mike Brey
Tuesday's game Irish forward against Kansas Irish coach Luke 1-Iarangody 
State repre­sented Notre Dame's last chance to defeat a power-conference opponent before beginning Big East play on Jan. 3 against West Virginia. Irish coach Mike Brey said he was pleased with how his team responded to the pressure of the game. 
"I thought we were a lot more mentally tough than we were in the Virgin Islands," Brey told ESPN after the game. 
With the Irish ahead 59-57 and just over two minutes left to play, McAlarney drove along the baseline and hit a runner to put the Irish up by four. Kansas State freshman forward Michael Beasley hit a pair of free throws on th1~ Wildcats next possession to pull the Wildcats back within two. Beasley, who entered the con­test averaging 26.7 points and 15 rebounds per game, fin­ished with 19 points on 8-for­21 shooting and 14 rebounds, but only had four points in the second half. 
After junior forward Zaeh 
knocked a loose 
ball out of bounds in front of the Wildcat bench. Long-armed Irish for­ward Ryan Ayers got a hand on the ensuing in-bounds pass, which then went out or bounds off Kansas State forward Bill Walker. 
"lie has really good instincts on both ends of the floor," pit multiple dnfnnders against Beasley, the highly-touted freshman, in the first half but switched primarily to man-to­man in the second. The Irish employed a number of defend­ers, whether in zone or man, to contain Beasley. And even though the Irish often played zone -a defense susceptible to allowing offensive rebounds -they were able to win the battle on the boards 41-36. 
"That was our biggest point of emphasis eoming into the game," llillesland said by phone. " ... So it was just really big team awareness in terms of blocking out every guy and trying to get every rebound. We haven't done as good a job of that in previous games and I thought that extra attention to that area really paid orr tonight." 
Harangody dominated much or the first half -scoring 11 of Notre Dame's first 13 points and finishing the period with 15 points and 10 rebounds. 
The Irish led most of the ini­tial 20 minutes, though their perimeter game struggled ­Notre Dame shot just 1-for-12 from beyond the arc in the first half. 
Irish guard Tory Jackson, at 
a mere 5-foot­
11,tippedina 
Hillesland said "It was pretty much Hob Kurz miss of Ayers. "He over a (>-foot-1 0
just like a road game. 
has a lot of Wildcats for­
length for that It was a hostile ward Luis Colon three-man environment." to give Notre even that two­Damn its man defender. biggest l11ad of
Luke Harangody 
He provides the half at 2H­
Irish forward 
that extra 18. 
length other players don't have. His instincts in just reading plays really helps us out on the defensive end of the floor." 
Kansas State was foreed to foul the rest of the way, and McAlarney hit four free throws to seal the victory. 
The Irish used a 2-3 zone to 
Beasley took 
over for Kansas State the rnst of the half. using his athlntieism inside to seore 10 points in the final seven minutes or the f'ramn and pull his team within 36-34 at the half'. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 



Wednesday, December 5, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
BLAc~ DoG 
DEUCES MANOR 
I Klfi&;W.' IT'S LIK.E.. WHEtJ YD() l>RI\IE A SPIKED WA!i::I-\AMMER THRouG-H. A 
6-UY:S HEAt>. ANI> IT G-ETS STIJC.K, S'-' Yul) H!!-IIE To SM,O.~H HIS SKVLL TO 6-E"T IT D\.IT. IT~ LIKE, IIELI-tJ, I t.!EE.I>Et> THAT ~KI)LL FuR. MY CDLLEC.TtON 7 
MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

TASTES LIKE FAILURE RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
ANt>Y! WI-lY  
t>lt>N1T YOU  ·,- ANt> MA21..ltJANA IT'S••  
Tet.-t.. Me?  BASICAt.-t.-Y t.-e<!Mt.-IN  
YOU'2e F20M  CAt.-IF02NIA, 2161-lT?  
CAt..IPOIZNIA?  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
11111-::'-t-'-:'+:'-t 
-'-:'+±:+::+::'• 

WILLSHORTZ 
67 "Camelot" actor Franco 
68 Other, in the barrio 
69 Charges 70 Innovative 1982 Disney film 
71 Like a busybody 
Down 
Wood-turning tool 
2 Stern that bows 
3 Nellie of opera 
4 Behold the proof 
5 Back muscles, for short 6 'The Black 
Stallion" boy 7 Idiot 8 He said "Slump? 
I ain't in no slump. I just ain't hitting" 
Puzzle by Patrick Blindauer 
9 Turndown 32 Black lacquer 48 Round dance 59 Mimicked 
1 0 Van Gogh floral subject 33 Filibuster, in a official 60 Pertaining to 
11 Bobby of Boston way 50 Gallery display flying 34 Alertness aid 
12 Male cat 53 Canonized figure 61 "Follow me!" 36 Bud's comedy 
13 Title in S. Amer. 54 One who's not 62 Leave insidekick "it"19 Getaway alerts, stitches? 
37 Briefs, briefly 56 Look after 
for short 41 "Isn't that 
63 Air quality org. 

21 Cry before "It's 57 Some Peters beautiful?!"
you!" 58 Homeless 64 Debussy's "La 44 Lacking purpose animal " 
24 All alternative 
25 _Grove, N.J. 
26 Money in the bank, e.g. 28 Part of a 
C.E.O.'s resume 
29 Topic: Abbr. 
31 Without which not 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

JmJWLID11l! Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. I love it. I feel like a new
to form four ordinary words. 
person 
BELAC 
j 
1 
rr 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r~i~rlj
tGUTONI t 


WHAT SHE: GOT
IJ I J 
FROM Hf:R NE:W 
www.jumble.com 
HAIR STYLE:. 
I GLOANOj 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as
rrr 

1 1 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

A=D"riiiJ" rr rJrn
IT 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I 
Jumbles: DROOP VILLA EXEMPT PRISON Yesterday's Answer·. Th" h t " d I " 
IS can appen o mo es ­"SELDOM" 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tyra Banks, 34; Jay-Z, 38; Marisa Tomei, 43; Jeff Bridges, 58 
Happy Birthday: This is a great year to rethink your strategy and consider your per­sonal and professional options. You can make changes involving location. schooling or development of new skills. Being earnest about your goals will bring you the success you desire. Don1t let anxiety slow you down and confuse your future goals. Your num­bers are 4, 9, 28. 34. 42, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Rely on experience to make the right decisions regarding relationships. partnerships and finances. A problem will arise if you lead people to be­lieve you can do something. you can't. Focus on what's reasonable. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take care of matters that concern others. Getting too close to someone you work with will probably lead to problems. Don't take financial risks or lend someone money. Tighten your purse strings. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't get hogged down by what others want you to do. You can help out but not if it jeopardizes yom own project>. Love is on the rise and using your charm will definitely help you out with romance and capturing someone's heart. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don'ttake anyone too seriously. especially if he or she is giving you an ultimatum. Pick yam arguments wisely or you will waste time you should be putting to better use. Look for an advancement that will bring in more cash. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Do what you want, take what you want and go after what you want. You can'tlose today if you let your Leo charm lead the way. Love, romance and entertainment are all riding high and should lead to a day full of fun, networking and talking about potential deals. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): As long as you do yom homework, know the facts and are ready to take action, you will do just fine. This is a day to reflect, consider past experi­ence and be cautious. 3 stars 
LIDRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can make some worthwhile reforms or changes today that will benefit others. Don't be afraid to talk about yom plans and intentions; you will get suppott and help to follow through. Love is in the stars. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): If a deal is not on the table or a chance to make extra cash in the works. don't hesitate, wondering if you have what it takes to pull it off. Don't second-guess yom· talent. 3 stars 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You don't have to make a lot of noise or changes to he noticed. Love is in the stars and, if you get involved in a connnunity activity, you will meet someone special who can share your ideas, thoughts and intimacies. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Be careful: Th.is is not the day to let your heart rule your head. Make decisions based on facts, not hearsay or emotions. A strict budget and discipline will be required if you want to come out on top financially. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your Aquarius chatm and entrepreneurial attitude will bring great results. Money. contracts. settlements and legalities can be put to rest. New commitments can be made and a new way of saving put into play. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't make changes based on what you heat·. Instead, 
slow down and look at what everyone else is doing before you make your final assess­
ment. You'll be up for a challenge but. before you jump, size up what's involved. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are sophisticated, worldly and open to try new things. You are un­predictable, motivated, a strong competitor and a little stubborn. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroad1-·ice.com.forfun. eugenialasJ.com for conjidentia/ consultations 

CROSSWORD 
Across 

7-Up flavor 5 Easter serving 9 Funny ones 
14"Just !"
-15 Succulent plant 16 Clinker 17 Locker room supply 18 Solid ground 20 You should have the body 
22 Online currency 23 Catches in the 
act 24 Pro at balancing 27 Big pet food 
brand 30 Pageant wear 32 Erica who wrote 
"Any Woman's Blues" 35 Bottom of a lily 38 Bank rights 
39 Schoenberg's "Moses und 40 From the beginning 
42 Gray-brown goose 
43 "The Taming of the Shrew" setting 
45 Sport whose name means "gentle way" 
46 Formerly, once 47 Kind of number 49 7'1" N.B.A. star, 
informally 51 Pince­52 Shout to a team, 
maybe 55 Fall colors 59 The die is cast 62 Always the same 65 "Warm" 66 They're rather 
pointless 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wedensday, December 5, 2007 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Teamwork over talent 
Harangody's 19 points, 14 boards keep team from blowing late lead 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Ediwr 
More than 200 friends and 
family members went to 
Madison Square Garden 
Tunsday to see Kyle 
MeAiarnny's homecoming. and 
McAiarnny didn't let them 
down. 
The Staten Island native smrnd Notre Damn's final nine points. inducting a clutch 3­pointer with 1 :32 remaining, to lift Notre Dame (6-2) to a 6R-59 victory over Kansas State (5-3) in the Jimmy V Classic. McAiarney finished with 18 points in his first game in New York since his semester-long suspension following a .January arrest on charges of marijuana possession. 

"It was a great feeling," MeAlarney said in a phonA intervinw after the game. "Those were all the people that were behind me through the tough times, and it just feels so good that I could come back and play in front of them and just give thmn a good show." 
Forward Luke llarangody added 19 points and a career­high 14 r11bounds for the Irish 
see KSU/page 18 

FOOTBALL COMMENTARY 
A Christmas list for the Irish 
Th11 biting wind whistles down South ()uad. the early­morning ice on the sidewalks adds an exciting tinge of dan­gnr on your walk to (:lass, frostbite is in the air and the music or Mariah Carny and l>arlenn Love is in lwavy rotation in the dining Chris Hlne halls. 
That's Sports Editor right, it's yuiE~tide at Notre Damn. And in the Christmas spirit, I've pn~pared a small wish list for Notre l>anw this ofT-sea­so11. 
• Fix special tE•ams. 

Notrn Damn's special tnams nned work. Tho Irish gavo up too many yards on kickoffs and didn't gain rwarly enough. This hiddPn yardago can win gamns. but that hid­don yardage was hardnr for 
-. the Irish to find than the toys my pare ... er, Santa Claus bought me each year. 
Before thn season, Wflis said he and every assistant eoaeh had a roln in spneial teams. That systnm. however it PHIL HUDELSON/The Observer Irish kicker Brandon Walker, left, attempts a field goal during Notre Dame's 41-24 loss to Air Force on Nov. 10. 
worked. didn't. Luckily, Christmas came a little early on this one. Weis said at a news conference Monday that he will re-evaluate the special teams and do things a little dif'ferently in 2008. That can only help. if only because they can't get much worse. 
• Get Golden Tate the ball. 
The freshman wide out nearly swung Notre Dame's 33-19 loss to Purdue in Notre Dame's favor. Tate had 104 yards on three go-routAs, which only require the receiv­er to run as fast as he can down tho field. There are no cuts, slants, posts -nothing like that. It just requires Tate 
see THE LIST/page 17 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
ND faces tough defense against Bowling Green 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will face its tough­est opposing defense since it played No. 3 Maryland when it travels to Bowling Green tonight to face the Falcons at 7 at Anderson Arena. 
La..<>t season, it took an overtime period for Notre Dame to beat Bowling Green, 85-81. Notre Dame is 3-0 in the all-time series. The Irish, ranked No. 16 in this week's Associated Press poll, will travel for the first time since Nov. 20, when they lost 75-59 at then­No. 3 Maryland. The Pakons hold opponents to 56.5 points per game, despite losing six seniors from a 2006-07 team team that reached the Sweet 16. 
"They're an experienced team in some ways bneause their point guard !Kate Achterl bas sweet six­teen experience," Irish coach Mul'fet McGraw said. "She was great last year, and she's running the team really well this year. She's their leading scorer, she's playing really well." 
The Falcons defeated Cornell in the championship game of the Cornell Classie on Saturday. They have won their games this sea..<>on by an average of 14.2 points. Achter leads the team in scoring with 17.2 point<> pE~r game. Laun~n Prochaska is second with 14.3 poinl<> and three steals per game and averaged 15.5 point<> in two games during the Cornell Cla..<;sic. 
McGraw isn't worried about her team's ball control, hownvnr, say­ing she had faith in the team's point guards, Tulyah Gaines and Melissa Leehlitner. 
"1 think Tulyah is Pxperiencnd, and she's playing mally well, shn's got a pretty good assist to turnover ratio," McGraw said. "I think shn'll handle herself well, as will Leeh. I'm eonfident in our point guards." 
But McGraw said Bowling Crnnn has the toughest defense the Irish will face since Maryland and that they nm~d to takfl earn or the ball. The Bowling Green defense has held opponents without a field goal for five-minute stretches in each of its first six games. 
After it<> loss to Maryland in thE~ semifinals of the pmsnason WNn: Notre Dame blow out it<> next fiJUr opponent<>. Even though the team has five wins by 30 points or more, McGraw said the Irish never look pa..<>t opponent<>. 
'They don't look at last year." McGraw said. "They don't say well, last year was an easy game, this year will be a tough game or vice versa." 
see BGSU/page 17 

McAlarney steps up to give squad big win 
After being suspended for most of last season, after struggling in Notre Dame's two losses in the Virgin Islands and after 3R 
minutes of frustrating basketball, McAlarney put the Irish on his shoulders and got them a 


huge win Chris Khorey over Kansas Sports Editor 
State. 

With a little over two minutes remaining Tuesday night, Notre Dame was hanging on to a tenuous lead. The Irish were up 59­57, but they hadn't scored in nearly five minutes. The situ­ation was all too reminiscent of the end of the Baylor and Georgia Tech games, where the Irish struggled to score down the stretch and blew big leads. 
But McAlarney made sure that wouldn't happen again. 
He took the ball on the wing, drove baseline, and threw in a runner to put the 
see K-MAC/page 18 



