
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 40 WEDNESDAY. OCTOBER 31,2007 
Basketball Legion to wear black 
Switch from green in student section inspired by Brey, meant to drive up shirt sales 
By CHRIS KHOREY News Writer 
Notre Dame men's basket­ball fans will wear black this season. 
That was thn color of the official Leprechaun Legion T­shirt handed out to students at the Lngion's season-open­ing cvnnt Tunsday night at the Joyee Center. 
Legion president Tom Ceravolo said the idea for blaek <:arne from head bas­ketball eoaeh Mike Brey. The Irish have worn black jerseys on the road at times over the past two seasons, and Brey encouraged fans to wear black at a home game against Alabama last December. 
Ceravolo said the new eolor has another purpose. The Legion sells its shirts ­which are traditionally bright green -to non-students to benefit the Coaches Versus Cancer foundation, and sales have slipped in recent years. 
"The sam~ color T-shirt three years in a row doesn't sell very well," Ceravolo said. 
The event. which featured a highlight video, the team's walk-on tryouts and an appearance by former Irish star LaPhonso Ellis, drew hundreds of basketball fans. 
"I love interacting with our sixth man -the students," 
see TICKETS/page 6 

Young ND alumni work at alma mater 
Recent graduates accept internships, full-time positions in University offices, departments 
great place to be," said Batteast, a RecSports intern. 
A number of Notre Dame graduates "come back after five, ten, twenty years to vari­ous positions," said Erin Putt, senior recruiting consultant in the Office of Human Resources, and a Class of 1997 alumna. She could not give a percentage of alumni working for the University. 
Most graduates who work at the University, Putt said, are spread across various depart­ments and offices. Some of the most recent graduates begin their careers as admissions 
see GRADS/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

COR 
Taxi issues, cabstand addressed 
Representatives weigh optionsfor pick-up spot 
By JOSEPH McMAHON News Writer 
The Council of Representatives discussed pos­sible plans for a permanent, on­campus taxicab stand at its meeting Tuesday. The cabstand would create a space where taxis would be allowed to wait to pick up students. 
The discussion comes amid recent controversy over what drivers say is an NDSP crack­down on idle cabs at Main Circle. Some cab drivers have said that, until this year, NDSP has never objected to cabs wait­ing at Main Circle. But in recent months, NDSP has forced taxis to leave the premises -even handing out trespass notices to repeat offenders. 
While local cab drivers told The Observer in October that they would support a cabstand at Notre Dame, NDSP Director Phil Johnson was skeptical and said the layout of campus would prevent such a measure. 
At Tuesday's COR meeting, student body president Liz Brown addressed NDSP's con­cerns, suggesting a cabstand be placed outside McKenna Hall, a location she said would help minimize the traffic flowing into Main Circle and also provide a 
see CABS/page 3 

ByJENN METZ Assistant News Editor 
When Jackie Batteast gradu­ated from Notre Dame in 2005, she left South Bend bound for the WNBA after a successful basketball career at the University. After playing for the Detroit Shock and earning a WNBA champi­onship ring, Batteast, like a number of recent graduates, returned to Notre .Dame as a member of the University's staff. 
She chose to return "for the same reason I chose to come here in the first place -it's a 


Students anticipate trick-or-treating, ghosts 
Tour features haunted spots; Keenan hosts children's event 
By MEG MIRSHAK News Writer 
Students seeking thrills and an encounter with a Notre Dame ghost may get their wish today as the Student Activities Office (SAO) leads a tour to the haunted spots on campus, one activity avail­able to trick-or-trnaters this Halloween. 
The SAO's "Haunted Campus Tour" will leave from the Dooley Room in the LaFortune Student Center at 10 p.m. and make stops at the Main Building, which University founder Father Edward Sorin is rumored to haunt, and Washington Hall, where Notre Dame's first All­American football player, George Gipp, is said to visit. 
Gipp contracted fatal pneumonia at Washington Hall in November of 1920, accord-
see PUMPKIN/page 4 


At SMC, dorms organize events all week, students research hauntings 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 

Saint Mary's students got a head start on celebrating Halloween Monday night as Holy Cross Hall Council, the Holy Cross Hall resi­dent advisors and Residence Hall Association (RHA} held two campus-wide events. 
Eaeh year, the RHA designates a night when College faculty and staff members can bring their families to the dorms to trick-or­treat with the students. The group sent an e­mail to students Sunday to inform them of Monday's trick-or-treating. 
Holy Cross Hall also hosted its annual Halloween party, called "Holy Cross Hall­oween," on Monday. But rather than choos­
see TREATS/page 6 

Wednesday, October 31, 2007
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Unlucky Kentucky 
Knntueky: I lome to KFC. the Kentucky 
Derby, and coal. 
Instead of' flying home li>r fall break to my 
bolovnd (;oldnn State of'Calili>rnia, whieh is 
eurrnntly up in flames, I ventumd into the 
Knntur.ky land­
scape, which con-Eric Sales 
tinues to be 
bombed by ~-,rrnndy Photographer 
mal mining mm­
panins. 
I, along witl1 11 other environmentally 
conscious Notn~ Dame studnnl'i, participat­
ed in the Appalachia Seminar there. We 
picked up litter, !~trmed, created a wetland 
and, most importantly, witnossed the devas­
litting nfliJcts of' mountaintop rmnoval 
(MTHI. 
MTH is a cheaper, more ellkient li>rm of 
mining compared to underground mining. 
Thn process involv11S blasting away the 
tops of mountains to obtain mal for energy 
consumption. Unli>rtunately, MTH rnsults in 
the dnstruetion of thn Appahu:hian 
Mounlilins and tiln burial and r.onlitmina­
til m of' thousands of streams, making lite a 
living hnll li>r the Appalachian community. 
A'i one Kentuckian studnnt daimed, 
"Knntw:ky is bning scarred like aenn does to 
the l~u:n of a tnnn." 
Furthnrmorn. the f(Jdoral governmnnt ha<> rneently proposed legalizing the continu­anen of' the coal companies' nvilmining ways. 
What it comes down to is money and ~-,rrond ovnr lwalth and our environment. 
Enough is enough. What could we possi­bly do on campus to hnlp not just tho p11opln of' Knntur.ky but all of Appalaehia a'> wnll? 
l'lnnty. 
Turn on· your lighL<> whon not in usn. 
Usn daylight<L'> a souren of' light. 
Usn compad fluornseont light bulbs. 
Unplug your eharg~•rs whnn not in usn. 
Takn quicker shownrs. 
Sot your computnr to slonp and hibnrna­
tion modes. Hnduce tlw brightnnss of your eomputer sernnn. 
Less 'IV and vidno games. More studying. praying and sporl'>. (I think we got this onn down already.) 
Recydo. 
It makes me an~-,rry when I see endless bnnr bottles in the garbage bin every Saturday and Sunday morning from a night of partying. 
Notre Dame ha'i just moved to singln stream reeyding, making it possible li>r us to put all mcydablns in one container. 
Use it. 
You may be wondnring how this will ben­elit the peopln of Kentucky. It may not do it dirnctly but it will deerease our energy con­sumption, rnsulting in a reduction of Notre Dame's reliance on eoal. 
Yes, it's true, Notre Dame uses eoal. 
If you really earn, go to www.700moun­tains.org. Educate yourself' on tile eoal min­ing issue and writn to opposn destructivfJ coal mining practiees. 
To my Appalachia group, V1, Deb, Father Jaek, nveryone at tile Appalachia-Science in tile Public Interest and to tile rest of Amnri1:a: It is my hope that Notre Dame stu­denL'> will take the above necessary steps to ensurn thP future of our country. 
To the students of Notre Dame: Please adhere to my suggestions to reduce our energy consumption. Ilopefully then will the lur.k of tilP lrL'ih rub ofT onto tile unlucky Bluegr<L'iS slitte of Kentueky. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Eric Sales at esall•s@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
In the Oct. 30 edition ofThe Observer, the article tided "Hanks shines in Big East wins" said Rutgers did not have a shot in the first 66 minutes, instead of the last 66 min­utes. Haley Ford has missed 14 games, not eight, and Amanda Cinalli has returned to play and is not still side­lined with an injury. The Observer regrets the errors. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DRESSING UP AS FOR HALLOWEEN? 







''A rubik's ''A gypsy. , ''A sailor. "A banana ''A disgruntled cube." It's cute., because it's my student because favorite fruit." I have a statics 

Sophomore Luc~ Zhang, left, t.alks to junior Karen Koski about the Building Tomorrow fundra1ser at South Dming Hall Tuesday. Students involved in Building Tomorrow sold T-shirts to raise money for the organization. 
OFFBEAT 

Boy, 7, takes car out for spin, crashes 
LEIIIGH ACRES, Fla. ­lie could barely reach the pedal, but one 7­year-old boy managed to take the family car out for a spin in his Lehigh Acres neighborhood. 
A Florida Highway Patrol spokesman says John Vega took the keys to the car, drove it out of his driveway and erashed into several trees and a mailbox along the way. 
Vega is being treated at Lee Memorial Hospital for minor injuries. 
In all, authorities say the boy drove about 200 
feet from start to finish. 
Lab tech accused of abusing elderly corpse 
TEANECK, N.J. -A Teaneck hospital lab technician has been jailed after being accused of sexually abus­ing the corpse of a 92­year-old woman, authori­ties say. 
Authorities said a secu­rity guard allegedly saw Anthony Merino, 24, of Manhattan, engaging in sexual activity with the body in the Holy Name Hospital morgue on Sunday. 
Bergen County officials 
charged Merino with des­ecrating human remains, which is punishable by up to 10 years in state prison. 
A judge set bail at $400,000 and required Merino to undergo a psy­chological exam. 
Merino, who had only worked at Holy Name as a per diem employee for 14 days, was immediate­ly fired, the hospital said in a statement. The woman's next of kin also were informed after his arrest. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 

..... 
<C 
(.) 




52 46 

,3 HIGH 60 HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH 56 HIGH 
LOW 51 LOW LOW LOW LOW 37 LOW 
64 39 
53 32 

Atlanta 66 I 39 Bos~on 57 I ~1 Chicago 64 I ~4 Denver 74 I 50 Houston 77 I 52 Los Angeles 70157 Minneapolis 66147 New York 62 I 43 Ph1ladelph1a 63 I 36 Phoemx 87 I 66 Seattle 52 I 41 St. Louis 70 14 7 Tampa 82 172 Washington 52 141 
test Thursday morning." 
IN BRIEF 
A eolleetion of Douglas Kinsey paintings is on display in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy Ilall through Nov. 29. 
The Notre name women's basketball team will have an exhibition game against Southern Indiana Thursday at 7 p.m. in tim Joyee Center. 
The hor.key team will play Lake Superior State Thursday at 7::J5 p.m. at the .Joyee Center ke llink. 
As parl of' tho Boardroom Insighl'> lnr.ture series, Brenda Barnes, CEO of' the Sara Lee Corporation will speak Friday at 10:40 a.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of' the Mendoza College of Business. 
The Black Cultural Arts Coundl is holding its annual tal­ent show, "Black Images: Through the Seasons," Saturday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Student tiek­ets are $5. 
A'> part of' tile Military History speaker series, author David Bell will offer a presentation on his new book, "The First Total War," which focuses on the Napoleonic Wars, next Monday at 4:30 p.m. in room 116, DeBartolo Hall. 
Gillian Sorensen, senior advi­sor to the United Nations Foundation, will deliver the lee­turn titled "The State of Women Internationally: Where Are We and Where Arc We Going?" next Thcsday at 6 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd edu 

GAME DAY SUNDAY 




Wednesday, October 31, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Cabs


Test date set for alert system 
continued from page 1 
Campus comprehensive ND Alert notification will activate Friday 
Special to The Observer 
On Friday, Notre Dame will test NO Alert, the campus comprehen­sive emergency notification sys­tem. ND Alert includes a new component, the Web site emer­gency.nd.edu, that will provide ongoing information during a time of crisis. 
In the event of an emergency, emergency.nd.edu will serve as the primary source of information about the nature of the crisis, how to remain safe and the point at which safety has been restored. The new sitn will allow ofl"-cam­pus partners such as alumni, par­ent<; and the media to monitor a crisis. 
On an ongoing basis, the site will host information about the campus emergency preparedness and response plan, general emer­gency contact information, and a summary of the tools and resources that support response effort<;. 
"Safety during a campus emer­gency is our top priority, and rapid, effective communication during an event is of paramount importance," said Notre Dame's president, Father John Jenkins. "The University's emergency 
.. 
2008 SUBARU 

TRIBECA 

5-PASSENGER
$319 PER MONTH LEASE/ 

36 MONTHS 

$2,593.64 Down Payment $0 Security Deposit $0 Acquisition Fee $319 First Month's lease Payment 
$2,913 Total Due at lease Signing t~1ode! 81/\) 
'Top Safety Pick includes the 2008 Tribeca. 2Government frontal and side crash tests are part of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) New Car Assessment Program. See safercar.gov for more detail. Subaru Tribeca and Outback are registered trademarRs. Leases based on 10.000 miles per year plus tax, title, license and doc. Rebates to dealer. With qualified credit. Offers expire October 31st, 2007. 
120 w. McKinlev Ave. MISHAWAKA 
·z····· .:·,.«< o•·;ik 5'•<··''4''1:'&~7·.
... :· ~~lu·_IWII ...•.:-.~,.-~-: 
. ~ '
.•..: """'""~ .;.;.,;.;.;.;.;· -~>' . . < 
GurlevLeepSubaru.com 
response committee has studied the lessons for emergency cir­cumstances at other universities in devising this multi-layered communications protocol." 
On Friday afternoon, the Offices of News and Information and 
Information Technologies will activate two NO Alert notification systems that will complement infor­mation at emer­gency.nd.edu: 
+ 
A mass notifica­tion system will dis­tribute a test mes­sage to student. fac­ulty and employee personal and regis­tered cell phones, University e-mail accounts and any additional personal e-mail accounts pre­viously provided. 

+ 
The University's Comcast cable system will broadcast a test message to any live television in residence hall rooms, common areas such as the LaFortune Student Center and offices. All messages to personal communi­cations devices and on the cam­pus cable system will clearly indi­cate that a test is under way. 



•IIHS 
Top Safety Pick' 

• 
All-Wheel Drive standard 

• 
Vehicle Dynamics Control (VDC) with Traction Control 


• 256-hp 3.6-liter Subaru Boxer engine 
"Safety during a campus emergency is our top priority, and rapid, effective com­munication during an event is ofparamount importance. ,, 
Father John Jenkins University president 
At the beginning of each semes­ter, students have the opportunity to update emergency contact information during enrollment. In addition, throughout the semester students may contact the Registrar's Office to provide updates. Faculty and staff may provide emergency contact infor­
CHRISTIE RITTEN!The Observer 

mation through the Resources tab 
COR members, from left to right, Chris Doughty, Phil Ross, George 
Chamberlain and Ryan Brellenthin sit at Tuesday's meeting. of Inside NO. 

•.. 
i 

W. MCKINLEY AVI!!. 
" Subaru 
sonal cell phone num­bers and addi­tional e-mail information are encour­aged to do so. 


2"-"C< c: "' "l.:...._
I)M,,PtcEZA 
2.5: 


• 
IIHS Highest possible crash test ratings 

• 
All-Wheel Drive standard 

• 
173-hp Subaru Bo<er engine 

• 
4-wheel disc brakes with ABS 


$248 PER MONTH LEASE/ 36 MONTHS 
$0 Down Payment $0 Securi!y Deposit $0 Acquisition Fee $248 Fir.o! Month's Lease Payment 
$248 To!al Due at lease Signing 
(Hcdef8jB) 
• 
All-Wheel Drive standard 

•
6 standard airbags 

• 
4-wheel disc brakes with ABS 


$248 PER MONTH LEASE/ 42 MONTHS 
$1.751.24 Down Payment $0 Security Depo;it $0 Acquisition Fee $248 Fir•t Month's Lease Payment 
$1,999 Total Due al Lease Signing 

the best method to involve stu­dents in the selection of the commencement speaker. 
Several COR members said they felt the student body was unhappy with past speakers and that students, especially seniors, should have some say in the process. 
"What we want is some stu­dent presence in the decision­making process," said Chris Doughty, vice president of the senior class council. 
Will Kearney, student gov­ernment director of communi­cations, suggested that the University allow senior class members to vote for a com­mencement speaker from a list four or five possible candi­dates. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

The ND Alert notification sys­tem will be used only in the event of an extreme emergency. Emergency.nd.edu is expected to provide communications on a broader range of emergencies such as responses to severe win-safe place for students to catch a taxi. 
"Students and cab drivers need to know where they can go to safely meet," Brown said. 
She also said too many stu­dents have been walking through unsafe neighborhoods in order to go off campus, most likely because they are tired of being overcharged by taxi drivers. 
"We need to make it easier for students to pay for cabs so that they do not have to walk late at night," Brown said. 
In other COR news: 
+ COR members discussed 
ter weather or isolated utility issues that affect few but create a visible emergency response. 
Members of the campus community who have not registered per­



page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 31, 2007 
Grads 
continued from page 1 
counselors or have internships 
in fields like athletics or 
Campus Ministry. 
Battnast chose to stay in the 
Athlntic Department. ller job 
provides her with "dif'f'Brent 
aspnr.ts or sports than you get 
from being a player." 
As the fitness and faeilities intern, Batteast manages stu­dent employees at HncSports and is a building supervisor on weekends, among other rBspon­sibilities. 
ller internship lasts the school year, and she is unsure what she will do at the end of May. 
"I might go back to be a part of the school corporation, or I might play baskPtball overseas ... there are dill"!~rent options," shB said. 
Graduates like Battnast tend to be hired because "they bring in really good skills they obtainnd after bning studnnts at tho Univnrsity," Putt said. 
Tlwy undergo thll same appli­cation procBss, slw said, and apply for tmnporary positions, like internships, as well as full and part-time positions. The number of different openings and opportunities availabln to thnm, Putt said, dPpnnds on tlw University's employment turnover. 
Paid internships that last 10 or 12 months tend to attract young alumni who arP planning to "go in to otlw r are as Iike admissions. or go on to grad school or law srhool," Putt said. 
HPcent graduates can somn­t.imns land new positions at thn University, hut Putt said those are spnrial rases, since the IHtmlwr of University Prnploym~s is not growing considnrably. Still, slw said, NotrP l>anw is a good pia('(~ to start a profpssion­al cari'Pr. 
"There is a lot of opportunity 
for earner development here," 
she said. 
Human HesourcBs will be rep­
resented at the winter job fair 
at the Joyce Center and applica­
tions for openings are available 
online, Putt said. 
Jim furlong, who graduated 
in May, has a one-year intern­
ship at the Monogram Club. 
Arter being a student manager 
of the football team his junior 
and senior years, Furlong 
"wanted to stay involved in ath­
letics," he said. 
"I was somewhat familiar with the department, and I wanted to stay involved in any eapadty. It sounded like a posi­tion that interested me," Furlong said. 
As part of his internship, Furlong is responsible for organizing Monogram Club events, like the 30th reunion of tho 1977 · National Championship football team that was honored on the field during the USC game Oct. 20. 
But he, like Battnast, is unsure of what lies in his future. Furlong is considering going back to school or finding another internship. 
Tho benefits of eoming back to work at the University are "fantastic," Putt said. "There's just being a part of thn University community again ... and then tho total employment expnrience." Some of the perks include tickets to sporting events (like football and basket­ball games), discounts at the Bookstore and golf course, and rnmlieal, dental and retirement botwfits. 
"It's really a grnat total pack­ago," she said. "liven peopln that aren't familiar with thB University are welcomed with open arms. It's a great commu­
nity." 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
Pmpri:W;rs Warren &-Linda

.:J?occo's 
Restaurant 
.. 

~.,-;-j·_ ,_,!f;3;,~ ;,-1 lt~!h.!r' Ent·~ t·:~ Tu,-,_ :;. ,,.,:1:00PM 11 '·'"PM 
.... ,, ·. ~ .. ·: (H: P;~..-\ ... 1J1l.-; ;-...\~ 
. '·· Nc · L I ,-,;;:c • South Bend, !~. ·-:.+-,·. ~ ..:~~4 



Rejoice! Mass 

PuiDpkin 
continued from page 1 
ing to Notre Dame legend. The story goes that he spent the night on the building's front steps after he was locked out of his dorm after curfew. The ill­ness led to his death on Dec. 14, 1920. 
Film, Television and Theatre professor Mark Pilkinton, who is writing a book about Washington Hall, said the ghost sightings began in 1920 and 1921. lie said they weren't attributed to Gipp's spirit, how­ever, for another five years. 
Not far from Washington Hall, Keenan Hall will welcome ·stu­dents to its own haunted· house in its basement as part of the dorm's Great Pumpkin rwent. Junior James Toner. Keenan's vice president, is the organizer of the community outreaeh event for ehildren from the Boys and Girls Club of St. Joseph County and Teamwork for Tomorrow, a student mentor­ship pro!,rram. 
"We are trying to give South Bend kids a ehanee to have a fun trick-or-treating experience, but also give college students and Keenan residents a chaneo it has been in the past because to work with South Bend kids," student government is Toner said. involved," said 
About 50 chil­junior Mark dren from the Weber, 
second to seventh grades will be led through an elabo­ "We are trying to give South Bend kids a  Keenan's presi­dent. But perhaps  
rate  haunted  chance to have a fun  the most antici­ 
house, Toner said. The Kennan resident assis­ trick-or-treating experience, but also  pated aetivity will be the parade of' cos­ 
tants will super­ give college students  tumes  aeross  
vise a different section of the basement, induct­ and Keenan residents a chance to work with  campus. Freshman E m i I y  
ing the zombie  South Bend kids. "  Heineceius said  
and  graveyard  she and three  
amas. Eighteen other  James Toner  friends plan to celebrate  
residence halls  Great Pumpkin event  llalloween  
will also partici­ organizer  dressed as the  
pate in Keenan's  "Fanta Girls,"  
Great Pumpkin  the fictitious pop  
event.  Each  group from the  

dorm will host triek-or-treating popular soft drink eommerdal. and set up stations where the Students in the Notre Dame ehildrnn will be able to tell ghost Marching Band, inducting sopho­stories and bob for apples, more Alyssa Novak, will put on a among other activities. costume to attend tho band's 
And this year, student govern­scheduled praetiee. Novak said ment will also join the li~stivities, she will drnss as a pirate, like hosting a Halloween pienie on those in the popular "Pirates of North Quad. Pienic attendees will the Caribbean" movie series. then be h'11ided through Keenan's haunted house. Contact Meg Mirshak at 
"Great Pumpkin is bigger than mmirshak@nd.edu 


November 4, 9p.m. 
Chapel of Notre Dame Our Mother Coleman Morse Center 
All are welcome! Pizza to follow! 
CM 
C:impw;. Mfninry 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------_J 
' 
' 
' 
I I 
' 
' 
I'or mformalJOn. contact Judy Madden 631-8508 or jrnadden2@nd edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, October 31, 2007 CoMPILED FRObA THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Israel conducts Gaza airstrike; 4 dead 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip -Israeli aircraft hit a llamas-run police station in the southern Gaza city of Khan Younis late Tuesday, killing at least four people, Palestinian security and hospital ol1icials said. 
The Israeli military confirmed it carried out an airstrike, saying the target was a Barnas position in southern Gaza. It said the attack followed the firing of mortar shells by Barnas at an Israeli village near Gaza. 
"We will continue to hit terrorist targets in Gaza," the military statement said. 
Islam Shahwan, a llamas security spokesman, said the target was a location for llamas riot police. Witnesses said the dead were in uniform. 
Tropical Storm Noel strikes Caribbean 
SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic ~ Tropical Storm Noel lashed the Dominican Republic with heavy rains Monday, causing flood­ing and mudslides that killed at least 20 people and left another 20 missing, officials said. 
Noel was expectPd to dump up to 20 inches of rain on the Dominican Republic and I Iaiti, which share the island of I lispaniola, as it heads north­west toward the Bahamas. 
Forecasters said a tropical storm watch, whieh means that tropical storm conditions are possible within 36 hours, may be issued for southeast Florida early Tuesday. 
The spinning tropical storm had been forecast to hit Haiti hardest but veered toward the Dominican Republic, apparently catching resi­dent<> oflguard. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Tasered student will not be charged 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. -The University of Florida student stunned by a police Taser and arrested after his fervent, videotaped outburst at an event with Sen. John Kerry won't go to eourt if he stays out of trouble during 18 months of probation, prosecutors said Tuesday. 
Andrew Meyer's shout of "Don't Tase me, bro!" was ignored by campus police but helped video clips of the 21-year-old being dragged from a microphone beeome an Internet sensation. 
The telecommunications major wrote apologies to the Gainesville sehoul; its president, Bernie Machen; and the campus police department, defense attorney Hobert Griscti said. Meyer recently decided to take the semester off because of the publicity, but he will return in January, Griscti said. 

Setbacks could cause delays for NASA 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -A giant solar wing ripped as it was being unfurled by astronauts aboard the international space station on Tuesday, creating another problem for NASA at the orbiting outpost. 
The next shuttle flight could be delayed if this latest problem isn't resolved quickly, said NASA's space station program manager, Mike Suffredini. Atlantis is supposed to lift off in early December with a European laboratory. 
"We don't dearly know what we're dealing with yet, and as soon as we know what we're dealing with, then we can talk about what our next steps are," Sufl'redini said. 
The astronauts immediately halted the wing extension when they spotted the damage. By then, the solar panel was already extended 90 feet of its 115 feet. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Man pleads guilty to teen slaying 
LOGANSPORT, Ind. -A convicted child killer pleaded guilty on Tuesday to murder in the death of a 16-year-old waitress he worked with at a northern Indiana restaurant. 
Danny H. House, 52, was charged with killing Stephanie Wagner, whose body was found stran­gled and stabbed in a Cass County farm field on Nov. 1, 2006. 
House's plea agreement with prosecutors calls for a sentence of lili~ in prison without the possi­bility of parole. 
Wagner's uncle, Alvin Fry, said the family sup­ported the plea agrenment in order to avoid more pain to her relatives, although h1) believed the punishment for House was not severe nnough. 
KENYA 



U.S. forces aid in anti-piracy efforts 
As pirate attacks rise, multiple American warships involved in conflicts off the African Coast 
Associated Press 
NAIROBI -A U.S. Navy destroyer helped sailors who retook control of their vessel Tuesday in a deadly battle with pirates after the North Korean-flagged ship was hijacked in the piracy­plagued waters off Somalia, the American military said. 
The Navy also confirmed that other American war­ships sank two pirate skiffs late Sunday after answering a distress call from a hijacked Japanese chemical tanker and said U.S. ships were still monitoring that vessel. 
In Tuesday's incident, a helicopter flew from the destroyer USS James E. Williams to investigate a phoned-in tip of a hijacked ship and demanded by radio that the pirates give up their weapons, the military said in a statement. 
The crew of the Dai Hong Dan then overwhelmed the hijackers, leaving two pirates dead, according to preliminary reports, and five captured, the military said. 

Three seriously injured crew members were taken aboard the Williams, the statement said. The cap­tured pirates remained on the Dai Hong Dan, which the crew was returning to the port of Mogadishu, ing and if they have nothing reported this month that ships fired on and sank two Somalia's capital. but the best intentions in pirate attacks worldwide pirate skiffs tied to the 
"When we get a distress mind." jumped 14 percent in the Golden Nori on Sunday call, we help," said Cmdr. A Navy spokeswoman, Lt. first nine months of 2007, night. A Navy photo showed Lydia Hobertson, spokes­Jessica Gandy, said later with the biggest increases in one of the skiffs burning woman for the U.S. 5th that the American destroyer the poorly policed waters of after being hit by a gun Fleet, told The Associated had not been shadowing the Somalia and Nigeria. aboard the USS Porter, a Press by telephone from North Korean ship. She said Heported attacks in guided-missile destroyer. Manama, Bahrain. it was not known what its Somali waters rose to 26, up Robertson could not con­
Defense Department cargo was. from eight a year earlier, firm CNN reports Tuesday spokesman Geoff Morrell Andrew Mwangura, pro­the London-based that the Japanese tanker said the incident didn't indi­gram coordinator of the International Maritime was filled with highly flam­cate the U.S. military was Seafarers Assistance Bureau said through its mable benzene. But she taking a more aggressive Program, said an estimated piracy reporting center in said, "we were aware of stance toward pirates off 22 crew members were Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. what was on the (Golden Somalia, but added that aboard the North Korea­The U.S. Navy said that Nori) ship when we fired." piraey in the Horn of Africa flagged ship that gunmen warships in a coalition mon­CNN said the USS Arleigh region is a concern because seized late Monday in itoring the waters near Burke, another guided-mis­"you're talking about an Somali waters. His group Somalia were following the sile destroyer, was also area that has seen greater independently monitors hijacked Japanese tanker involved in the operation terrorist involvement." piracy in the region. Golden Nori and that four and had entered Somali 
Morrell said it was logical Workers at the Mogadishu other vessels were still con­waters with the approval of 
that the military would want port said the vessel had trolled by pirates near the government. Robertson 
to know "what is being delivered a load of sugar Somalia. said she could not confirm 
transported on the high seas from India. Hobertson, the 5th Fleet the report because the oper­
and who is out there operat-An international watchdog spokesman, said coalition ation was continuing. 

Tight California building codes save hom_es 
after braving last week's Southern require such precautions as mmflam­
Associated Press California's wildfires, the first major mable roofs, indoor sprinklers and reg­test of the stringent construction and ular watering of shrubs. RANCHO SANTA FE, Calif. -Dr. landscaping standards adopted by the Rancho Santa Fe practices a strategy Jorge Uorente became irritated recent­community in 1997. The San Diego known as "shelter-in-place," designed ly when the fire department kept suburb lost 53 houses, but none of to insulate homes from flames if people rejecting his plans to landscape his them were in the five subdivisions that eannot evacuate. hacienda-style home with jacarandas embraced restrictions designed to be so The fire department in Haneho Santa and avocado trees. tough that people can stay in their Fe, whose past residents include Bing But he is grateful now. homes if they cannot evacuate. Crosby and Howard Hughes, scruti­Those restrictions may well have As Southern California begins to nizes plans for every tree and bush and saved his multimillion-dollar home rebuild from the blazes that killed at sends inspectors with measuring tapes when a wildfire passed through last least seven people and destroyed more to make sure its orders are obeyed. week. than 2,000 homes, homeowners and Trees and bushes must be a certain "Now that we have a chance to see government ofl"icials are looking at distance from the house and cannot how it works we are tickled pink," the places as far away as Australia and as exceed a certain height. Roofs must be retired surgeon said. ''I'm a convert. nearby as Stevenson Hanch in Santa nonflammable; shrubs near the house I'm a true believer." Clarita, north of Los Angeles, that have must always bo watered. Indoor sprin­Haneho Santa Fe has lots of converts adopted super-strict standards that klers are a must. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 31, 2007 
Treats 
continued from page 1 

ing lwtwnen the options, many st.udt>nts and outside triek-or­tn~atnrs attnnded both events. 
"Most of' the kids lwho trick-or-tn~ated I came to the party," said Maggie Hippenger. a Holy Cross llall resident advisor. "They loved it." 
Thn party ineluded mummy­wrapping races using rolls of' toilnt paper, coloring Halloween pictures, dncorat­
ing cookies and enjoying apple eider. 
"My favorite part of the night was dressing up in my eostume and watching the kids' l'aees when they felt our howl of' mon­ster brains," resident advi­sor Alex Tulisiak said. 
The event also included tiH~ annual 

travel between buildings. The tunnels closed in summer of 2005. 
Like lloly Cross, other resi­dence halls are also hosting 
llallownen-thnrned throughout tho week. Hegina llall sponsored a sr.arecrow-making contest Tuesday night. Stuffing was provided. but participants had to bring clothing and der.orations. Today. LeMans llall will throw a 
"My favorite part of the night was dressing up in my costume and watching the kids' faces when they felt our bowl of monster brains. " 
Alex Tullslak resident advisor 
events 
Murder Mystery Party. 
But campus-wide scheduled events are not the only way Saint Mary's students will celebrate Halloween. 
Junior Allison Buddie plans to read the book "Quiet Hours," a colloetion of ghost stories about the Saint Mary's campus, 

sleep," Buddie said. 
She said she's interested in learning about the Queen's Court section of LeMans, a predominantly freshman sec­tion that has a haunted histo­
ry, 
"I've heard 

'Tm reading it {'Quiet the stories about the
Hours'] because I 
nun who

want to know what is 
goes to the lurking around in chapel and extinguishes
LeMans while I 
tiHl candles,"

sleep." 
Buddie said. 

"There's also Allison Buddie a ghost of a 
student who
junior 
is said to 

wander Queen's Court taking things from residents and hiding them. It's only two floors below me, and that's pretty cool." 
Other Halloween events on campus: 
+ 
The Anime Club is host­ing a Halloween Dance in Haggar Parlor at 9 p.m. Tickets are $2 at the door; refreshments will be provid­ed. 

+ 
Dalloway's Coffee House is hosting its annual Haunted Tours event at 8 p.m. Ilot cider will be provided. 


Contact Liz Harter at eharteO1@saintmarys.edu 
:::[liiJ~ ~ ~ {1!."1'11'11~ 1'1[1] il,!1::: ....···············~;,~ ..........., ~~···
4f&''-•' ~·· 
.,.. '* w .........,0~.:..•. ~· 
• ~~ ••••••• .I •,,. I "'·" "'·" 1••••IJ \-~ .,.. '• 1I 
I ~},JJ '},iJ I ••••~ ......_, ~:.I II JL •r~·~...... 




-,; •

.....--..--...... J.
~-~~ ~
......... ....... \...._ ..... 
••l '""'~ J······~ ~·

... .............._,_.... 
r-4 ~~ lif!HllliltliltJtliU!ill:t~ :t..._,~ ·~ 
,... • .(~••••••••••p ::'\.!j"' ... ~~ 
.._~ ..........-:;~"'_......... 
Tickets 
continued from page 1 
Brey said before the event Tuesday. "That's important to me. I want to make it very clear how important our sixth man is." 
Tuesday night was the first opportunity for stu­dents to purchase season tickets to men's basketball games, but the tickets will be on sale from 9 a.m. to 5 
p.m. today at the Joyce Center. Season tickets will also be available for pur­chase online. 
Notre Dame is riding a 20­game home court-winning streak and was undefeated at home last season. The Irish also made the NCAA tournament last year for the first time since 2003. 
Despite all that, however, crowd support was inconsis­tent. While students and fans packed the stands for important Big East contests and the game with Alabama, other games saw a half empty arena. 
Ellis emphasized the importance of crowd sup­port. 
"If you guys are into the game, it pays huge divi­dends for the guys on the floor," he said in his speech to the crowd. 
Irish point guard Tory Jar.kson said the turnout for Tuesday's nvent means attendance will be high again for big gamos, oven if lessor matchups, like Friday's exhibition contest against Saint Ambrose, draw !'ewer fans. 
"If they're herB now, wn know they're going to be here for the bigger games," he said. 
Ceravolo was morn opti­mistic about the attendance for early season "cupcake" games. 
"The football team's not doing so well and people want to be excited about sports," he said. 
To help attendance, Ceravolo said the Legion will hand out free products at early season horne games. 
"Some of the early games we're planning on having some giveaways, like green wigs or ~aybe glow stir.ks," he said. 
The exhibition game with Saint Ambq1se tips off at 9 
p.m. Friday. The Irish have a second exhibition game against Saint Edward's Nov. 7, then open the regular season at home against Long Island Nov. 12. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu and Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

Holy Cross Haunted Tunnels tour. Each year, the Hall Council reopens one of' the closed tunnels that Saint Mary's students once used to 
to seek out what ghosts she can lind throughout the day. 
"I'm reading it because I want to know what is lurking around in LeMans while I 

THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Wednesday, October 31, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  13,792.47  -77.79  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,255  120  2,059  3,239,849,403  
AMEX  2.488.78 n ~z();Q2  

NASDAQ 2,816.71 -0.73 NYSE 10;164.91ll~im~wil~ S&P 500 I ,531.02 -9.96 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 16,633.73 -:17:~8 FTSE 100 (London) 6,659.00 -47.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +2.89 +1.00 35.57 S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.69 +1.07 153.06 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.18 +0.10 54.26 SIRIUS SATELLITE (SIRI) -8.86 -0.32 3.29 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE 0.00 0.000 4.383 13-WEEK BILL -0.26 -0.010 3.850 30-YEAR BOND +0.21 +0.010 4.673 5-YEAR NOTE +0.15 +0.006 4.053 

Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -3.15 90.38 GOLD ($(Troy oz.) -4.80 787.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.05 83.05 


Exchange Rates 
YEN 114.6750 EURO 0.6927 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9540 BRITISH POUND 0.4835 

IN BRIEF IHOP moves to purchase Applebee's 
OVEHLAND PAHK, Kan. -Shareholders of the bar-and-grill chain Applebee's International Inc. on Tuesday approved a $1.CJ billion buyout offer from pancake house operator IIIOP Corp. 
More than 70 percent of the company's shares voted to approve the agreement, which critics said shortchanged sharehold­ers. 
Under terms of the deal, shareholders of Overland Park-based Applebee's will be paid $25.50 per share, a 4.6 percent premium over its closing price on the day before the offer was announced. 
Glendale, Calif.-based IHOP is also assum­ing $155 million in Applebee's debt as part of the deal. 
The sale is expected to close by Nov. 29. The combined company would have $6.8 bil­lion in annual sales and more than 3.200 restaurants. 

Midwest Air approves sale to TPG 
Midwest Air Group Inc. moved a step clos­er Tuesday to ending its yearlong effort to fend off a hostile takeover by AirTran Holdings Inc. when shareholders approved a sale to private equity firm TPG Capital. 
Nearly all votes cast by Midwest share­holders approved the sale, worth $450 mil­lion in cash. company officials said at a spe­cial shareholder meeting. 
The only hurdle left is scrutiny by antitrust regulators. They must approve the Midwest Airlines sale because it includes rival Northwest Airlines Corp. as a passive investor. TPG will own Midwest, but Northwest put up nearly half of the money. 
Midwest Chairman and Chief Executive Timothy E. Hoeksema said he expects the deal will be elearnd by the government and the sale will dose by the end of the year. 
Shares of Midwest rose 8 cents to close at $16.24 Tuesday, while Northwest shares were up 66 cents, or 3. 7 percf1nt. to end at $1 ~U<>. 
Midwest agreed in August to be bought out by TP<; for $17 a share in cash. It has about 
26.6 million shares outstanding. 

Merrill Lynch CEO steps down 
Brokerage firm posts largest quarterly loss as credit crisis fallout continues 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -The unfolding credit crisis has claimed its biggest corpo­rate casualty so far: Merrill Lynch CEO Stan O'Neal. 
The announcement of his departure Tuesday came after the world's largest brokerage posted a $2.24 billion quarterly loss, its biggest since being founded 93 years ago. Merrill Lynch did not name a replace­ment for O'Neal, whose ouster had been expected, and who leaves the compa­ny with benefits worth $161.5 million. 
Laurence Fink, the chief executive of investment manager BlackHock Inc., turned down an initial overture from Merrill's board but is in active nego­tiations, according to a per­son with direct knowledge of the offer who was not authorized to speak pub­licly. With the presumed front-runner out of con­tention, filling the top spot at Merrill Lynch is not expected to be easy given the remaining unknowns from the global credit cri­sis. 

Any replacement will face the daunting task of cleaning up investments in subprime mortgages and other risky types of debt, "These losses, coupled decades at Merrill. financial instruments called and rebuilding an invest­with rumors that O'Neal He was one of the high­collateralized debt obliga­ment house badly bruised. had proposed a merger est-ranking blacks on Wall tions, which combine slices 
There is speculation by a with Wachovia without the Street -a stunning climb of different kinds of risk. It number of analysts that board's approval, essential­from his impoverished was Merrill's bet on CDOs, Merrill Lynch faces a $4 ly dug O'Neal's grave," said roots in Alabama as the and the subprime mort­billion writedown during Morningstar analyst Ryan grandson of a former slave. gages underpinning many the fourth quarter. This Lentell. "The new CEO's O'Neal emphasized riski­of them, that proved to be would be on top of a $7.9 first priority must be to er bets than past Merrill O'Neal's downfall. billion charge taken last ensure proper risk-man­CEOs, rather than the safe­Dealing with that portfo­quarter, a stunning amount agement procedures are in ty of just selling stocks. lio will be the priority for since Merrill originally said place to prevent a recur­That strategy -which co-presidents and chief it would write down only rence of the quarter's loss." handed Merrill Lynch operating officers Ahmass $4.5 billion because of O'Neal, 56, accepted record results during the Fakahany and Gregory credit market turmoil. blame for the losses, which market's peak -came Fleming. Merrill Lynch said 
O'Neal was also criticized immediately led to calls for with a heavy cost during their duties will be split ­for reportedly approaching his ouster. The mistake the tumultuous third quar­with Fleming in charge of Wachovia Corp. about some would prove to be his last, ter. Merrill's front-line busi­kind of merger without the ending a career that Merrill Lynch still has siz­nesses, such as its broker­approval of his board. spanned more than two able portfolio of complex age. 


Do Not Call list maybecome permanent 
phone listings permanent. who move and switch their phone
Associated Press 

A measure sponsored by Hep. numbers. Critics complained, point­
Mike Doyle, D-Pa., cleared the ing out that the list is already 
WASHINGTON -Congress took House Energy and Commerce scrubbed each month of numbers the first steps Tuesday to ensure Committee on Tuesday and will be that have been disconnected and that people who registered for the sent to the full House for a vote. reassigned to new customers. national Do Not Call list won't be Doyle said his legislation would Doyle's bill would require purges by inundated next year with telemar­give millions of Americans "a little the FTC twice a month. keting calls at dinnertime. much-needed peace and quiet." David Certner, legal policy director 
At separate House and Senate The House committee also at AAHP. says many people don't committee sessions, lawmakers approved a bill, sponsored by Hep. know about the need to re-register passed legislation that makes most Cliff Stearns, H-Fla., that extends every five years. So the legislation, of the 145 million phone numbers on the authority of the FTC to collect he says, is important. the list permanent by eliminating a fees from telemarketers. That "People don't want these unwant­five-year expiration date established authority expired last month. ed calls," Certner said. "For an older by the Federal Trade Commission. In the Senate, a measure similar person, sometimes it's more than which administers the program. to the Doyle bill cleared the just a bother. It can be a great 
The Associated Press reported last Commerce Committee. Sen. Byron inconvenience to try to get to a month that millions of phone num­Dorgan, D-N.D., who sponsored the phone only to find out it's simply a bers on the registry would start bill, said it would prevent phones call you don't want to receive in the dropping off beginning next summer from starting to ring again at supper first place." unless people re-registered. time. The bill heads to the full Linda Stevenson of West Chester, 
Heversing course, the FTC Senate for a vote. Pa. placed her phonn numbers on announced last week that it would Last month, the FTC had said the the Do Not Call list in the early days not purge expired numbers while expiration date was needed to of the program. She thinks the legis­Congress considers making the account for changes, such as people lation is a good idea. 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 Wednesday, October 31, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Important notes on loan forgiveness 
I~O. Box 779, Norr< Dame. IN 46S56 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EUITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 

Ass1~ MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily A~s·1~ MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
N~:ws EmTOR: Karen Langley 
VI~:WPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorcy Chris Hinc ScENE EDITOR: "lite Andrews 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Duslin Mennella 
GRAPiliCS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 

AuVJ;RTISING MANAG~:R: Jessica Cortez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLU;R: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Chrisrian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR ('\74) 631-4541 ohsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoint.I@nd.edu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
. (574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the indepcndcm, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ediwrial content. including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither imritution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The nt·ws is reponed as accurately and objectively as possibk. Unsi~ncd editorials repr<'Scnt rhc opinion of rhc majority of the Editor in Chief; M:maging Editor, Assistalll Managing Editors and dcpartiucnr editors. Commcmaries, lcrtcrs and columns prcsenr rhe views of rhc aurhors :tnd nor nt•cessarily rhosc ofThc Observer. 
Vicwpoinr space is available ro all readers. The trel' expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encoura~ed. Letters 10 rhc Editor musr be signed and musr include com.Kt int(,rmation. 
Questions regarding Obsm,rrpolicies should be dirmrd to Editor in ChiifMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

llw (}b...;rv.:r (liSr~ 5'J'J 1-tOOOJ i, pu!JI,~hr.l Mun<I.IY liuuugh hubv an:pt .turin~ n.1m .:a no I v~cJ.tiun JK'rl<ock A ml-nptllllll<l llw ( Jlhcrvcr h $1110 fur unc .ILJ.tkiEIIC: yr.u; $'\'\ lnrutw ....m•·~tcr. 
11Jt·l'll~rvrr i~puhl1,he'd .:al. Pll<TMASTER 021 Smuh Vi11ml' Il.J/1 Xwf o~dJte.U cmm:twm w: Nut~ 11-.uu: IN 46-'.i~b.(l77 1} rltcOb\erver 
1 1crwdicJI)>~•\I.II(C l'•ud .ar Ni11n: Il.amc P.O. l\.,~t771J .utol .ulditiUII!Il m.ailm.: uHicc:~ Ol'l Snurh llimng llo~ll Now: ll,unc. IN •I6~Sf....077'1 
!'he OW.ervrr "J ITI<'Illllt'r nf tho: A..i.<w)l"Uiletf t'rt'-'oJI All rcpnx!uwnn riKhtJ m: 
rC\C'f'lr(l 
Borrowing students ought to note the College Cost Heduction and Access Act, signed into law on Sept. 27. Georgetown Law Professor Philip Schrag analyzes the Act in the Fall 2007 Hofstra Law Heview, available at www.capenot.org/new.html. 
"Congress," notes Professor Schrag. 
Charles Rice 

"significantly 
reduced the period 
Right or

( 10 years rather 
Wrong?

than 25) after which public snr­vants' educational loans were partly forgiven. It also reduced monthly pay­ments for all high debt/low income bor­rowers ... with a new 'income based' repaymont (IBH) program." 
Borrowers with eligible Federal Direct Loans will have the unpaid bal­ance of principal and interest forgiven after they have made 120 monthly pay­ments after Oct. 1, 2007, provided that itll of those payments have been made while the borrower was employed in a "public service job." Employment in such a job does not have to be for 10 consecutive years nor does it have to be with the same employer. But the borrower has to be so employed at the time the loan is forgiven. A public serv­ice job is de lined as: 
"A full-time job in emergency man­agement, government, military service, public safety, law enforcement, public health, public education (including early childhood education), social work in a public child or family service agency, public interest law services (including prosecution or public defense or legal advocacy in low­income communities at a nonprofit organization), public child care, public service for individuals with disabilities, public service for the elderly, public library scienees, school-based library sciences and other school-based serv­ices, or at an organization that is described in section 501 e (3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under 501 (a) of such Code; or 
"Teaching as a full-time faculty mem­her at a Tribal College or University as 
defined in section 316 {b) and other 
faculty teaching in high-needs areas, 
as determined by the Secretary." 
The Act defines an "eligible Federal 

Direct Loan" as "Ia] Federal Direct 
Stafford Loan, Federal Direct PLUS 
Loan. or Federal Direct Unsubsidized 
Stafford Loan, or a Federal Direct 
Consolidation Loan." 
A borrower with government-guar­anteed loans that are not federal direct loans may consolidate such loans into a Federal Direct Consolidation Loan that qualifies for the loan forgiveness program. A federal "direct" loan is made by the U.S. Department of Education as the lender. Loans that are not already guaranteed by the federal government are not eligible for consoli­dation and eligibility for loan forgive­ness. 
Effective in July 2009, borrowers of most government-guaranteed loans, including Stafford and Grad PLUS loans, can reduce their monthly pay­ments of principal and interest if they quali(y, by reason of "partial financial hardship," for the new "income-based repayment" option. 
Professor Schrag recommends that borrowers consolidate non-qualifying ·government-guaranteed loans into fed­eral direct loans and then reduce their monthly payments by using the current income-contingent repayment plan and, when it becomes available in July 2009, the income-based repayment plan if they qualify for it. According to Schrag, a borrower who has $100,000 in college loans and who works in a "public service job" with a starting salary of $40,000 and annual salary increases of 3 percent could have more than $125,000 in principal and interest forgiven under the combined programs at the end of 10 years of public service. 
The Act will benefit some student borrowers. It remains true, however, that whenever you see a problem that cries out for a government solution you should look for the government pro­gram that caused the problem in the first place. As Professor Gary Wolfram eoncluded in his Cato Institute study in 2005, "both theoretical analysis and empirical evidence indicate that the federal government's financial aid pro­grams cause higher tuition eosts." That conelusion applies to the research uni­versities, including Notre Dame, whieh have financed their quest for msearch greatness on the backs of students who could pay the rising tuition only by borrowing. Student borrowing has about reached its roalistie limit. Tho new Act offers an out through the IBH reduction of payments for high debt/low ineome borrowers and through loan forgivenoss for grads who spend 10 years in a "public service job." 
The Act, however, also gives to the striving researeh universities an onhaneed ability to raise tuition. Those who can afford to pay that tuition will do so. Non-wealthy students can bor­row and now thoy can use the Act to pass much of that cost on to the tax­payers. 
Notre Dame makes commendable eiTorts to reduce borrowing by stu­dents. And University-financed loan­forgiveness programs, such as the Law School's Loan Hepayment Assistanee Program, are helpful. Neither such University efforts nor the nnw Act, however, lessen the urgency of Notre Dame's adoption of the Princeton no­loan program, in which all students who would otherwise have to borrow have their needs met by University grants. Notre Dame ought to set an example of using its own resources to remove the crippling debt burden from its students. Nor should Notre Dame exploit the new Act by further raising tuition and using the new Act to pass the costs of research greatness on to the taxpayers. 
Professor emeritus Charles Rice is on the law school faculty. He can be reached at rice.l@nd.edu or 574-633­4415. 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Scene  QUOTE OF THE DAY  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
Marcela Berrios  Tae Andrews  
Mandi Stirone  Viewpoint  
Dan Jacobs Graphics Madeline Nies Sports  Bethany Whitfield  "The radical ofone century is the conservative of the next. The radical invents the views. When he has worn them out, the conservative adopts them."  "The problem is never how to get new, innovative thoughts into your mind. but how to get old ones out. Every mind is a building filled with archaic furniture."  
Francis Tolan  Mark Twain  Dee Hock  
Pat O'Brien  American author  founder of VISA  
Ellyn Michalak  

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 31, 2007 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Discussion of Victory March continues 
Loyal sons and daughters 

Thank you to Caity Schneeman and her mom, Erin, for recalling the fact that we have loyal sons AND daughters here at Notre Dame. I graduated in 1981 and recall singing the fight song with the new words, " ... while her loyal sons and daughters march-on to victory." As the husband of one Domer (1979) and the father of two Darners (son AND daughter)-that is how I sing it. Let's change the ending to reflect all of Our Lady's children. It is fitting that Sister Jean Lenz is being honored Thursday for her long service to the University. Her book title, "Loyal Sons and Daughters," says it all. 
Nick Matich Class of 1981 Oct. 30 
'Gender-Exclusive' song appropriate 
In response to Caity and Erin Burns Schneeman, who wrote an Oct. 30 viewpoint entitled "Reconsidering the Victory March": Would that rais­ing one's hand triumphantly at reference to Notre Dame, our Mother­the Holy Mother of God, the Mother of Christ our Savior, Mother of Divine grace, Mother most pure, Mother most chaste, Mother undefiled, the Mother of good counsel, Mother of Christ our Creator, Mother of eternal glory, Mother most prudent, Mother most venerable, Mother most faithful, the mirror of justice, the seat of wisdom, joy of all who sor­row, the life-giving spring, the Holy Grail, Tower of David, Ark of the Covenant, Throne of the eternal King, Sanctuary of the Holy Spirit, Ladder of Heaven, Virgin of the root of Jesse and the morning star­suffice to be "gender-inclusive"? Would that I be proud, not ashamed, to claim unity with Mary and find in her the image of perfect femininity? 
DanAmiri junior Knott Hall Ocr. 30 

Fitting the words with the music 
Following up on the letter from Caity and Erin Schneeman concerning the gender issue in the Victory March ("Reconsidering the Victory March," Oct. 30), I must agree that some change is in order, but substitut­ing "sons and daughters" for "sons" just does not fit musically. I have two daughters who are alumni (a gender neutral term), of the classes of 1997 and 2001, and I have given this some thought over the years. To remain loyal to the original music, I substi­tute "ones" for "sons" so that regardless of gender, Our Lady's loyal ones may march on together. 
Mike Keane Class of 1969 Oct. 30 

Football gan1e behavior assessed 
Obscenity unacceptable 

A moment came in the 38-0 loss to USC Oct. 20 in which I was embarrassed to be part of the Notre Dame community. But it wasn't because of yet another blowout loss to USC, bringing us to 1-7 for the season. It was because of the chant that arose from the student sec­tion in the fourth quarter when USC challenged a call. The chant was not only audible to the 80,000 people in the stadium, but also on the NBC broadcast of the game. That chant was, "F*** Pete Carroll." 
To whoever started this chant or par­ticipated in it: This is not acceptable. Notre Dame does not do things like that. Such conduct reflects poorly on the team, students, alumni and the entire Notre Dame community. One need not even have the cleanest of vocabularies to realize that. No individual student, no section of students, and not even a majority of the student body has the right to do such a dishonorable thing that brings shame to Our Lady's univer­sity. 
I can understand the motivations behind such conduct, but there simply is no justification for it. Not a 1-7 season. Not a shutout loss at home. Not the sixth loss in a row to USC. Not even Pete Carroll. Current students are not owed anything more than any other genera­tion of fans or alumni. We have not been given the right to bring such dishonor to the University of Notre Dame. 
My roommate attended the 38-0 loss to Michigan in 2003 in Ann Arbor, Mich. and characterized it as one of the worst experiences of his life. Not only was the loss pretty darn bad, but also the chant of "F*** the Irish!" which arose from nearly the entire Michigan student body near the end of the game was pretty inappropriate and insulting. , 
Perhaps that kind of behavior is just fine at the University of Michigan, but please, not here. There are a lot of things that set Notre Dame apart from other universities. I'd like to think that the character of the student body is still one of those. Such character might include things like respecting the other team, respecting opposing fans and respecting the reputation of one's own university. As a bare minimum, can we at least refrain from chanting "F*** you" at the opposing coach? 
Benjamin Ellison Class of 2005 current graduate student Oct. 29 
Reaction overblown 

The song of censure that rained down on Pete Carroll during his instant replay challenge could not be classified as classy by any standard. No argument, there. However, while it was unfortunate, let's keep it in perspective. 
Is it really grounds to publicly declare one's embarrassment to be a Notre Dame alumnus? Of all people, an alumnus should realize that those actions were in no way a reflection of the Catholic spirit of goodwill that is perpetuated over the world by myriad University commitments that start in large part from Notre Dame students themselves. An alumnus should also realize that sometimes those students feel like they have been the only ones cheering their team on every Saturday during this trying season. While an alumnus should be disappointed that they would use their voices to express that frustration, he shouldn't preach from the pomp of his personal pulpit and hurl a self-righteous "shame on you" because he fears they may have tainted some image of what others might now think Notre Dame to be. 
Cut the students some slack -at least they united against a common (albeit hip, psyched and jazzed up) foe, whose idea of a practical joke is pretending his running back jumped to his death from a high rise build­ing, instead of splintering apart. They love Notre Dame and what it stands for just as much as you do, which is why it's been so difficult for them to watch one of the historic foundations of Fighting Irish pride struggle this fall. It's fme to criticize, but remember they still haven't turned their backs on their class­mates, their coach or, yes, even the values of Notre Dame. 
Let's save our public declarations of embarrassment to be associated with Notre Dame for more important things, you know, like the firing of an incompetent football coach who helped lay the groundwork for this season's struggles from the comfort of a fairway bunker somewhere off Puget Sound. 
The author is a former Observer sports writer. 
Tim Dougherty Class of2007 Oct. 30 

Fans m.ust 'uplift' team. for Navy gam.e 
If you haven't noticed by now, the Notre only natural to feel beaten up and weary and must be stopped, for Notre Dame suade the Notre Dame student body and Dame football team has made the wrong after consistently losing, but we must not faces a great challenge this Saturday. fan base. We need to come out in strong kind of history this season by starting 0-5 remain complacent. It is our job, as stu­The Naval Academy will be in town to support of our team, standing shoulder to and currently holding a 1-7 record. dents and as fans, to uplift our team in play the Irish, and it will not be as easy as shoulder, from beginning to end. Although this experience is heartbreaking those trying moments of a game, instead in previous years. Although they are 4-4, Otherwise, the consequence just might be for both fans and players, this does not of letting the momentum shift in the oppo­Navy has posted high scores against another loss of momentum for our foot­preclude the student body and fan base sition's favor-allowing the opponent's opponents such as Pittsburgh and Duke. ball team to overcome. Go Irish, beat from its duties during home football band to be heard from afar. Furthermore, Coming off a 59-52 loss against Delaware, Navy! games. to have left the game early prior to the Navy is ranked 35th in points scored 
There has been a marked decline in the singing of the Alma Mater is much like according to ESPN.com. Navy will certain­Corey Sinclair loudness and the charisma shown by the turning your back on your fellow class­ly be ready to battle the Irish come junior student body and fans. This was apparent mates, and denouncing what we are sup­Saturday. In such a game there will be offcampus during the match-up against USC. It is posed to stand for. This will not suffice, mistakes made, and this should not dis-Oct. 30 

Positive reinforcem.ent 
Look, I know Charlie Weis has ment: So if we are losing, we done some good things, and I know should not be chanting for Weis. this season we are doing terribly. I Consider it next time you make that have noticed we still chant, "Weis" little "W" with your hands how sat­between the third and fourth quar­isfied you are with our record this ters even when we are losing terri­season. bly, and I don't like that. I feel like we are zombies congratulating Robert McKeon Weis whether he wins or loses. graduate student 
We need some positive reinforce-Ocr. 30 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 
Wednesday, October 31, 2007 
================================================================= 

Photo courtesy resimsevinci.net 
Looking for a scary movie to watch tonight? Check out Michael Myers rn "Halloween," John Carpenter's 1978 horror classic. 
Photo courtesy natch.net Prove that you ain't afraid of no ghosts and watch Dan Aykroyd, Bill Murray and Rick Moranis kick some undead butt in "Ghostbusters." 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Wednesday, October 31, 2007 
page 11 

Photo courtesy newsday.typepad.com Jack Nicholson delivers an unforgettable performance in "The Shining," a horror classic based on the Stephen King story. 
-:/.'. 

Photo courtesy plissken.free.fr Whether they exist on campus remains to be seen, but "Gremlins" serves up a half-comedy, half-scary taste of the critters. 
Photo courtesy imageshack.us 
Krueger and his dermatological problems terrify audiences 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, October 31, 2007 
NHL 

Malkin scores twice to aid Penguins in victory 
Higgins ties game for Montreal with only minutes left; Atlanta's Kovalchuk nets decisive goal in shootout 
Crosby in the slot -broke a 2-kids.
Associated Press 

2 tie with 9:55 to play, and With the NHL's head-scratch­
ST. PAUL -Sidney Crosby Crosby broke freH on a linH ing unbalanced schedule, this has waited three yp,ars for a change by Minnesota and was the first time Crosby and ehance to play professionally in sealed the win with his fifth Malkin have played in front of the "State of' lloekey." goal of the season just over fans in the Western 
The hoekey-crazed fans here four minutes later. Conference's Northwest have been just as eager to sec "Crosby's line was on fire," Division in their careers. No. 87 in person, and the NIIL's PHnguins coach Michel Crosby looked forward to this newest superstar and his bril­Therrien said. ganw even before he was the liant young sidekick didn't dis­StHphane Veilleux and Brian No. 1 overall draft pick in appoint. Holston scored for the short­2005. "The Next One" scored 
Playing in Minnesota for the handed Wild, who lost at home 72 goals in 57 games at first lime in their young for the first time this season Shattuck in 2002-03, the same earners, Crosby had a goal and and fell to 0-3-1 in their last season the Wild made a stun­three assists, and Evgeni four games after starting the ning run to the Western Malkin scored twice and had season an NIIL-best 7-0-1. Conference finals. an assist in Pittsburgh's 4-2 Pittsburgh caught the Wild at "It's nice to come back here vietory ovnr the wounded an opportune time, after a rash and play. Even if you don't Minnnsota Wild on Tuesday of groin injuries shelved have ties to here, you come to night. Minnesota's top three players. this rink, it's a great atmos­
"It's fun to bn able to come Dynamic forwards Marian phere," Crosby said. "You play hnrn and play," said Crosby, Gaborik and Pavol Demitra and this team and you have no who starred as a 15-year-old No. 1 goalie Niklas Backstrom choice but to get up for it." player at prep powerhouse all missed the game. As in most arenas he goes to, Shattuck-St. Mary's in "It's a huge hole, there's no there were plenty of No. 87 Faribault. "No matter how the question, but we have enough sweaters in the seats, and he night ended up, it's just nice guys in here to get the job received a nice ovation upon bncause I was here before, done," Holston said. "We were being introduced before the watching games and dreamed in the game tonight, all the game, a rarity at Xcel Energy and play for each other, that's Atlanta (4-8}. of' one day playing in the NHL way through it. We just need to Center, where fans worship the the most important thing." The Thrashers improved to and playing here. It's really a be a little bit better." Wild. Kovalchuk put a shot past 4-2 under GM Don Waddell, bonus to come out of here with Josh Harding made 23 saves "He's a great leader and he is Montreal rookie Carey Price on who took over behind the a win." for Minnesota, but a couple of a great player," Minnesota Atlanta's third attempt, and bench on an interim basis after 
PHtr Sykora's power play goal unlucky bounces did him in coach Jacques Lemaire said. "I Thrashers goalie Johan he fired coach Bob Hartley fol­
-on a beautiful feed from against Pittsburgh's talented don't know him personally, but Hedberg forced Alex Kovalev to lowing an 0-6 start. I'd love to have one on our shoot off the post after "I think the biggest difference club, if they make any more." Thrashers rookie Bryan Little right now is we're getting a 
As it seems to have done for and Canadiens captain Saku good efl'ort from everyone," Crosby and Malkin throughout Koivu both scored in the sec­Waddell said. "Kozlov wasn't their young careers, the puck ond round. scoring, Kovy wasn't scoring always seemed to bounce their Chris Higgins scored thfl way he's scoring right now, way in the second period. Montreal's second power-play and it's our big guys who are 
Malkin scored the first goal goal of the game with 1:58 coming through for us. Marian of the game when Crosby lost remaining in regulation to tie it Bossa's still a little bit the puck behind the net, and it at 2. snakebitten. lie had some trickled right onto the Todd White took Atlanta's great chances again. The last Russian's stick. Malkin slipped third straight penalty at 17:50 two games we can't find the the puck in on Harding's left when he was sent off for hook­back of the net, but our vetflr­side for an easy wraparound ing. The Canadiens quickly ans are doing a great job for goal, his fourth tally this sea­took advantage as Koivu put a us." son. centering pass from the right Kovalev also scored unassist­
corner to Higgins, who beat ed for Montreal, which ended a Thrashers 3, Canadiens 2 goalie Johan Hedberg for his season-high, four-game win­
MONTREAL -The Atlanta fourth goal. ning streak. Thrashers have good reason to Kovalev, who assisted on the Price made 31 saves in his smile on their longest road trip goal, also scored in the second. Bell Centre debut. Price, who of the season. "We stole a point," Iliggins won for the second timfl in 
Ilya Kovalchuk scored the said. "We didn't deserve it at three road starts in Saturday's decisive goal in the shootout to all. It was a pretty poor effort. I 4-3 shootout victory at give Atlanta a win over the mean, we played decently in Pittsburgh, made consecutive Montreal Canadiens on the third but still our power starts for the first time. Tuesday night. The Thrashers play wasn't working and the Kovalev opened the scoring have consecutive victories for rest of our game, the first two with his sixth goal of the sea­the first time this season and periods, was pretty awful." son on a power play 8:10 into improved to 3-2 on their seven­The first three goals were all the second. He held the puck game trip. scored unassisted, including on the right side as Thrashers 
"It's always great when both tallied by Atlanta. Eric dHfenseman Ken Klee kept his you're winning, Kovalchuk Perrin and Vyacheslav Kozlov distance before putting a shot said. "(Wednesday}, it's a new scored 57 seconds apart late in over Hedberg's right arm into 
AP game. We're going to Ottawa the second period to give the the left side of the net. and it's a long marathon of a Thrashers a 2-1 lead. Perrin tied it at 16:16 with trip. We need to stick together Hedberg stopped 31 shots for his second of the season. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 2 f.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 2 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Granger family seeking babysitter for two boys. Once per week, either Tues or Thurs afternoons. Call247·1194. 
Secretary help. Computer savvy, typing, organizing, light cleaning. Call Terry 360-4192. Pays well. 

FoR RENT 
Cozy 3 bedroom house, walk to campus, washer/dryer, landlord does the yardwork. $750/month. No pets. No section 8. 574-25D-1266. 

Large house available for 2009­2010. Full renovations completed this year. Great location on E Marion. Large common areas. 5 bathrooms. Also available: Sbdrm 2 bath and 3bdrm 2 bath for 2008­2009. Contact MacSwain@ gmail.com 
Charming home now available for Navy,AF & Duke. Reserve now for JPW and Commencement! Great reviews, wonderful place & reason­able ratesl574-286·9995. 
Blue & Gold Homes now showing 08-09 & 09-10. Bluegoldrentals.com 
Blue & Gold Homes 2nd semester sale. $200 P/S just off campus 'alumni owned". Bluegoldrentals.com 

FoR SALE 
Moving on with my life Moving in with yours. Lake St. George is your new home With an almost view of the dome Sleep in one of three suites Taste the city water. It is sweet New. New Everything You can have it for some bling Not too bad for $345 thousand Call Jan Lazzara on her band 574-233-6141. 
TICKETS 
WANTED -NO FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE HELPI 574-251-1570 FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. ALL HOME GAMES. 574·232-0964. www.victorytickets.com 
ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. 57 4-288-2726. 



PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our web­site at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi·weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOMEONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline 
at 1-800-No Abort or visit our website at www.lifecall.org 
superproofer.com 
Adopt: a young loving couple long to share their hearts and home with a new· born. Will provide endless love. Expenses paid. Call Eileen and Ed 1-800-718·6577. 
Do you need childcare? Lena s Little Angels has 1 opening. I specialize in infants; 2 blocks south of campus. $110/week. 
261-5435 Angelena 
j willys bar and grille www.jwillys.com Monday: 35 cent wings Tuesday: $1 tacos Thursday: happy hour buffet 5·7pm. Now hiring servers 

.---------------------------­



OUND THE NATION 


Wednesday, October 31, 2007 
College Football AP Poll 

team  record  votes  
1  Ohio State (59)  9-0  1,615  
2  Boston College (1)  8-0  1,501  
3  LSU (3)  7-1  1,478  
4  Oregon  7-1  1,417  
5  Oklahoma  7-1  1,365  
6  Arizona Stale (2)  8-0  1,310  
7  West Virginia  7-1  1,286  
.8  Kansas  8-0  1,164  
9  Missouri  7-1  1,121  
10  Georgia  6-2  949  
11  Virginia Tech  6-2  823  
12  Hawaii  8-0  776  
13  usc  6-2  742  
14  Texas  7-2  728  
15  Michigan  7-2  726  
16  Connecticut  7-1  555  
17  Alabama  6-2  547  
18  Florida  5-3  532  
19  Auburn  6-3  530  
20  South Florida  6-2  392  
21  Wake Forest  6-2  259  
21  Boise State  7-1  259  
23  South Carolina  6-3  196  
24  Tennessee  5-3  165  
25  Clemson  6-2  146  
College Football  
USA Today Poll  
team  record  votes  
1 2  Ohio State (56) Boston College (3)  9-0 ·8-o  1,495 1,414  
3  LSU  7·1  1,324  
4  Oregon (1)  1-1  1,280  
5  Oklahoma  7-1  1,269  
6  Arizona State  8-0  1,221  
7  West Virginia  7-1  1,177  
8  Kansas  8·0  1,108  
9  Missouri  7·1  983  
10  Georgia  6-2  791  
11  Hawaii  8·0  769  
12  Texas  7·2  753  
13  Virginia Tech  6-2  736  
14  Michigan  7-2  701  
15  usc  6-2  679  
16  Auburn  6-3  454  
17  Florida  5·3  451  
18  Alabama  6-2  439  
19  Wisconsin  7-2  422  
20  Connecticut  7-1  419  
21  South Florida  6-2  291  
22  Boise State  7-1.  218  
23  Kentucky  6-3  159  
24  Clemson  6-2  145  
25  South Carolina  6-3  131  

College Football BCS Standings 
team  record  RCS avg.  
1  Ohio State  9-0  .9756  
2  Boston College  8·0  .9559  
3  LSU  7·1  .8879  
4  Arizona State  8·0  .8493  
5  Oregon  7·1  .8390  
6  Oklahoma  7·1  .7920  
7  West Virginia  7-1  .7759  
8  Kansas  8·0  .7723  
9  Missouri  7-1  .6100  
10  Georgia  6·2  .5820  

around the dial 
NBA 
Dallas at Cleveland 8 p.m., ESPN 
Seattle at Denver 
10:30 p.m., ESPN 

CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
MLB 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -Grady Little resigned as manag­er of the Los Angeles Dodgers on Tuesday, paving the way for Joe Torre to take the job. 
Li1J,le said it was a move he considered for some time, and he told general manager Ned Colletti of his decision Tuesday. First, Little called it "a mutual resignation." Later, he said it was his choice to leave with a year remaining on his contract. 
''I've got my own per­sonal reasons," Little said on a conference call. 
When asked if reports that the Dodgers were speaking with Torre influenced his decision, Little replied firmly: 

"No." 

Torre and his former bench coach with the New York Yankees, Don Mattingly, have discussed the possibility of joining the Dodgers together, according to a person with knowledge of those talks. The person spoke on condition of anonymity because the manager's job was still open in Los Angeles. 
"We haven't hired any­body," Colletti said. "We're talking to some people, that's all I'm going to tell you. We'll talk about where we go from here at a later 
IN BRIEF Duncan signs with Spurs
until 2011-12 season 
SAN ANTONIO -Tim Duncan has agreed to a two-year, $40 million con­tract extension with the San Antonio Spurs, an official familiar with the negotiations said Tuesday. 
The agreement will add to Duncan's existing three-year deal and keep him in San Antonio at least through the 2011-12 season, according to the offi­cial, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the source was not authorized to discuss negotiations. 
The 31-year-old Duncan has led the Spurs to four NBA titles in the past nine seasons, and he was the finals MVP for the first three. He also won back-to­hack league MVP titles in 2002-03. 
Duncan, entering his 11th season, was the No. 1 pick in 1997, two years before the Spurs won their first title. 
The nine-time All-Star has career averages of 21.8 points and 11.9 rebounds. 
date." 

The 6 7 -year-old Torre managed the Yankees to four World Series cham­pionships and 12 playoff appearances in as many seasons before turning down a one-year, $5 mil­lion offer for next season with an additional $3 mil­lion in incentives on Oct. 18. 
Torre, who completed a three-year, $19.2 million contract this year, ranks eighth on baseball's career list with 2,067 vic­tories and has won a record 76 postseason games. 
Colletti said he had an idea the 57-year-old Little was leaning toward resigning, so he recently 

Brazil to host World Cup in 
2014 

ZURICH, Switzerland -Brazil was chosen host of the 2014 World Cup on Tuesday, returning the showcase event to the soccer-mad country that held the tournament in 1950 and has captured the title a record five times. 
Brazil was the only candidate and won in a unanimous vote by the execu­tive committee of the sport's governing body. 
"Soccer is not only a sport for us," Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva said. "It's more than that: Soccer for us is a passion, a national passion." 
FIFA president Sepp Blatter said Brazil now has "not only the right, but the responsibility" to organize the 2014 tournament. 
Lula, who flew in for the announce­ment, promised that Brazil "will now with great pride do its homework." And, he added, "if everything works out well, we will win once again a World Cup." 
page 13 
discussed the job with potential replacements. The GM said he didn't want to get caught empty-handed. 
One of those candi­dates, Colletti acknowl­edged, was Joe Girardi, hired by the Yankees as Torre's successor earlier Tuesday. 
"I wanted Grady Little back. I encouraged him a handful of times to think it through," Colletti said. 
Team owner Frank McCourt said on the sea­son's final day that Little would return next year, but recently several news outle.ts reported the Dodgers were speaking with Torre about their managerial job. 

Final defendant pleads guilty
in Duquesne shooting case 
PITTSBURGH A former Duquesne student pleaded guilty Tuesday to helping two friends armed with guns get into a school dance the night five basketball play­ers were shot and wounded. 
Brittany Jones, 20. was sentenced Tuesday to two years of probation. A judge also ordered Jones to stay off the university's campus and away from anyone with a gun. 
Jones' attorney, James Ecker, said his client could have been sentenced to years in prison if she had not reached a plea agreement. 
"She's very happy, she's continuing going to church and she has a job," Ecker told The Associated Press. "She's very happy and her family's very happy." · 
Jones was the last of four defen­dants to plead guilty in the September 2006 shooting. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 31, 2007 
NFL 

Clemens to start 
Lafayette Square
at QB for NY Jets 
Townhomes 

Associated Jlre.-s 
IIHMI'STEAD-Them were no awkward monwnl-; or uneomfort­abln eonversations. Chad l'nnnin~ton and Knllen Clemens had alrnady pn~parnd for this sit­uation. 
When .lets eoaeh Erie Mangini announend Monday that he was turning to Clmnnns as his starting quartnrback, Pennington rnealled t.hn diseussions he and the 2006 second-round draft pick had rnenntly. 
"Our promise to each other was that no matter what happened, we would give our full support and do whatever we nneded to do to twlp tho other one be success­ful." Pennington said. 
It's Clemens' turn to see if he can turn around the .lel'i' season from a 1-7 start, starting Sunday against Washin)..,rton. 
It's also time lilr Pennington to turn into a mentor, much in the same way Vinny Testaverde helped him along at the begin­ning of his earner. The fact Pnnnington has handled his lwnehing with grace has made the transition from backup to starter a bit smoother for Clnnwns. 
"Ten times nasier," Clnmens said. "It's all just a erndit to the man that Chad l'nnnington is, to the tearmnatP he is. lie wants to 

win as much as anybody and I 
know Chad's thought has always 
benn the tnam first, and I'm surn 
that won't change." 

Mangini's announennwnt was­n't a huge surprise. It's a move fans and rnndia have boen sug­gesting liw weeks as the Jets have struggled to a 1-7 start. 
"I made this deeision not based on singling out Chad for where we are, but based on the faet that I think Kellen has earned this opportunity," Mangini said. "I want to give him this opportunity. It's in no way an indication that Chad is solely responsible. We aU are." 
The 31-year-old Pennington, in his eighth season, has failed to move the offense effectively as the Jets have lost five straight and rank 30th in total offense; only Bu!Talo and San Francisco arn worsn. 
"Coach madn it dear that I'm not the villain here," Pennington said. "And I'm not thn only one to blame lilr the lack of' our success or our problems, but hn did reel likn Knllnn dnsf~rwd a chance." 
ClemPns, in his sncond season out or Oregon, replaced Pennington latn Sunday in the Jets' 13-3 loss t.o Bufl'alo. Ile was just 5-of-12 for 6 7 yards and two intorcnptions, but onn of those eamn on a dospnration toss as time expired. 


424 N. Frances Street 

4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathroo111s Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(57 4) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 
AND FOR TI-lE STLIOENT VVI-10 ATTENDS TI-lE l\t10ST GAI\,ES ... GRANO PRIZE: ROLINO TRIP AIRFARE FOR TVVO TO IRELANDI 
PRESENTED BY: 

~crocs· 

FIRST GAI\t1E: OFFICIAL GOLD RliSI-1 T -SI-IIRT FIFTI-1 GAI\t1E: ADIDAS LAN\'ARD TENTI-1 GAI\t1E: NOTRE DAI\t1E CROCS 
Wednesday, October 31, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 ­
Finding and Funding Post-Graduate Opportunities 
6:00 p.m. Thursday November 1, 2007 
Hospitality Room South Dining Hall 
Speakers 

Agustine Fuentes, Associate Professor, Anthropology, Director, Office of Undergraduate and Post-Baccalaureate Fellowships 
Roberta Jordan, J.D., 

Assistant Director, Office of Undergraduate and Post-Baccalaureate Fellowsl1ips 
Contact information: Office of Undergraduate Studies, 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 

Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up bythe fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(WaterfOrd Estates Loclge has hotel rooms at reasonable rates fur upcoming ND football weekends.) 

MLB 
Girardi hired as Yankees manager 
before moving next to Torre
Associated Press 
this season. Girardi also beat 
NEW YORK-Joe Girardi is out Yankees first-base coach back in pinstripes, taking over Tony Pena, who had the most as New York Yankees manager managerial experience of the from his mentor. candidates. 
Girardi was hired Tuesday, Girardi caught for the agreeing to a three-year con­Yankees from 1996-99, served tract to replace Joe Torre in as a bench coach in 2005, then New York's dugout. managed the Marlins the fol­
"I think any of us would be lowing year. He kept a young somewhat sur-team in con­prised to get the tention until 
job because it's "I think any ofus September 
such an honor," would be somewhat and then was Girardi said. fired, appar­
surprised to get the job 
''I'm extremely ently for
because it's such an
excited and clashing with thrilled. honor." owner Jeffrey "I can't be Joe Loria and oth­Torre, because ers above him. 
Joe Girardi
I'm made up dif­The 43-year­ferent. I'm a dif­Yankees manager old Girardi 
ferent character. I'm just worried about being myself and getting the most out of the guys." 
The deal is worth an average salary of at least $2 million annually, a baseball official said, speaking on condition of anonymity because the team h~s not announced the details. 
Girardi was the 2006 NL Manager of the Year with Florida, plus he has a pin­striped pedigree. The hard­nosed catcher played on three Yankees teams tha,t won the World Series, served as their bench coach under Torre and was a TV announcer this year. 
"Joe Girardi is a good man," Torre said Monday on "Late Show with David Letterman." "He's got a feel for this organi­zation." 
Yankees general manager Brian Cashman was impressed by three attributes he saw in Girardi: hard work, accounta­bility and disci­pline. 
"He likes to compete all the 
often told 

many in the Marlins about how the Yankees did things, reinforcing the win­ning ways he learned in New York. Now, he'll get a chance to try them out himself. 
Girardi was the first person to 
-
interview to replace Torre, who managed the team to the play­offs in each of his 12 seasons. Girardi turned down the Baltimore Orioles' managing job last summer, choosing to spend time with his ailing father. 
Mattingly also interviewed for the Yankees spot last week, telling team management how much he wanted it. Earlier this month, he said replacing Torre would be quite a challenge. 
"It's like following John Wooden or something," Mattingly said then. 
Girardi gets the unenviable task of following Torre, who led the Yankees to four World 
Series titles in 
his first five 
years -but 
none since ­

time," Cashman "We believe he's and was one of said. "We believe mentally tough." the most cele­he's mentally brated sports tough." figures in the 
Brian Cashman city.
Once he was informed Yankees general manager Girardi inher-
Monday that the 
Yankees had 
chosen Girardi, 
Don Mattingly told the team he 
had no interest in returning 
next year as bench coach or in 
any other coaching position. 
Beloved as team captain, 

Donnie Baseball was the early 
favorite to replace Torre and 
openly coveted the spot. 
Instead, the Yankees picked 
experience over popularity, 
choosing Girardi even at the 
risk Mattingly would walk away 
from the franchise. 
"I think Joe is a good baseball person and totally will be a .great manager there in New 
York," Mattingly said. 
Still, spurning Mattingly ­

who always receives one of the· 
loudest ovations on Old-Timers' 
Day -was sure to be com­
pared to another famous 
Yankee snub: Babe Ruth was 
never offered the manager's job 
he so desperately wanted. 
"It's no secret that Donnie is 

extremely important to the 
Steinbrenner family and the 
Yankee organization and 
always will be," said Hank 
Steinbrenner, son of owner 
George Steinbrenner. 
Mattingly was the Yankees 

hitting coach for three years 
its a team in transition and one without Alex Rodriguez. He also is not assured of getting back pitchers Andy Pettitte and Mariano Rivera or catcher Jorge Posada. 
"Obviously they are important Yankees, and they have meant so much to the organization," · Girardi said. 
Rivera and his agent, Fernando Cuza, were at Legends Field in Tampa on Tuesday, to talk with Yankees officials. The ace reliever, who has filed for free agency, said only, "We've got to see some­thing." 
Afterward, Cuza said they had a good meeting but would­n't speculate whether Rivera will be a Yankee next season. 
"I don't know," Cuza said. "It's up to them." 
Rodriguez informed the Yankees on Sunday that he was terminating his contract and becoming a free agent. The Yankees have repeatedly said they wouldn't negotiate with A­Rod if he hit the open market. 
"You are going to miss those 54 home runs and 150-plus RBis, but to me you can't look backwards, you have to look forwards," Girardi said. 
-page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 31, 2007 
NFL 

Romo signs $67.5 million contract 
Associated Press 
IHVJN(; -Wearing jeans and an untueknd Dallas Cowboys golf shirt, Tony Homo treated Tuesday as if it WCJ.S any other day of work. 
Well, th1~re were a few dill'er­ence. Such as the fact he brought morn and dad to team headquarters. 
And tho $67.5 million eon­tract he showod up to sign. 
On one of the biggest days of his life, Homo remained the average guy he's been since joining the Cowboys as an undraftnd free agent five yoars ago. lin said he was humbled by the $11.5 million signing bonus and by cementing a spot in the linnage of Don Meredith­to-Hognr Staubaeh-to-Troy Aikman, but he also insisted the only thing that's going to change is his tax bracket. 

Want proof'! He's even plan­ning to keep his apartment ­and his roommate -despite having the third-highest annual salary among NFL quarter­hacks, alwad of Tom Brady and Brett Favre. 
dollar contract as a challenge to his bosses, telling them the more they paid him, the more likely they were to play him. 
lie got the deal and, eventual­ly, the playing time. The con­tract numbers show he's made the most of it. 
"You can either do this or you ean't," he said. "I didn't know if I was, but I put myself in posi­tion to succeed." 
Homo thought about what the big contract means while sitting in bed Monday night. It was still on his mind when he woke up Tuesday morning. By the time he met the media in the after­noon, he had it sorted out. 
"It almost feels like we aeeomplished somothing here today, but it doesn't," he said. "This sets you up financially and does all the things that you somewhat hoped for in life, but you don't set it out as a goal when you start out as a football player. This is something that more or less comes along the way." 
Team owner Jerry Jones 
called Homo 
"the man for the 
2000s," adding, 

"I never really "/ wouldn't have done "I wouldn't have thought this was done this if I
this ifI didn't think he 
a goal along the didn't think he way. I still don't gives us a chance to gives us a rweossarily per­win 5;uper Bowls." chance to win coive it as a Super Bowls." goal, but it's It took a while
Jerry Jones 
something really for him to come neal that I got to to that conclu­
Cowboys owner 
experience," Homo said, !lashing the dim­pled aw-shucks grin that's helped him land dates with gor­geous actresses and singers. 
"It's special just to be a part of this. The best feeling by far is that the organization, the Jones family, our coaches and every­one say. 'lley. you're our guy. You're the guy we want to go to the next level with. We want to get back to the Super Bowl around here and win these things.' That means everything, morn than the money ever could." 
If Homo's attitude seems too good to bo true, there's a good reason for it. The story of how he got to this point fits the same description. 
Undraftnd out of college, he turned down $25,000 signing bonuses elsewhere and took $10,000 from the Cowboys because hi\ liked his chances of beating out the competition. Before last season, his fourth, lw still hadn't thrown a pass, but asked for a multimillion­sion. 
Jonos' hesita­
tions started during the 2003 draft, when then-oflensive coordinator Sean Payton lobbied hard for Homo. Jones figured it was because they went to the same school, Eastern Illinois. 
Once Homo arrived, the Cowboys went through Quincy Carter, Chad Hutchinson, Vinny Testaverde and Drew Bledsoe before turning to him last October. 
Homo started 5-1, setting records and turning heads. lie got Dallas into the playoffs, then knocked the team out by nub­bing the hold of a short field goal in Seattle. fie revealed more of his eharaeter with how he responded: crying and apolo­gizing to teammates that night, then weeks later asking to be the holder at the Pro Bowl. 
By then, Jones believed in Homo enough not to draft Brady Quinn when he had the chance in April-but not enough to oll"er a big contract without see­ing him play more. 


~ J' 


10:30 a.m.-12 noon I2 noon-5 p.m. Thr. Morria Bistro Palais Royale Ba:llrotun 211 N. Michi~n St., South n~nd 105 W. Colfux Av<., South B<nd 
Btllll Rridul Rnlflch features a deliciou> 1J.e B.d/u IJddul Event and Sty/•• Show ojfim 
chamf>agne hrunch and apreview ofn'<!dding eV<·rvthing.fi,:vuur sfJecial dc'Y includ"t~ •.trle mu.d·· luw<' looh and trrnd,. for tilt H'tJ.\on. 1hows at 1:30 j>.m. and _3:_30 p.m .. .fo•>d Tickets Ji>r !hi, c~>JI ulso indud•· the a>Jd hrvtruge fo.<fing and lh• late.<f 
Bridal E,.nt &Styl•· Shnu•. in Wt>(Ming s.!vlt'. 
Tickrt., $~0 in advance""-~ iryNuvember 18. Ji,·lreb $5 in ach<Jnte, $ro "t the door 
Purc/Juse lrcket~ of lire .'VIorris Bo.t Office 574-·· 235 ·-9190 or unliM at 
www. bellabridalevent.com --.--~}14, 
• '!Mllii!.ffl:: 0.;&t 


Office of International Stndies Program in 

DUBLIN, IRELAND 
A Y 2008-2009 

Trinity College 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Thursday, Nov. 1, 2007 
6:30 pm 201 De Bartolo 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15, 2007 FOR ACADEMIC YEAR 2008-2009 
APPLICATION AVAILABLE: WWW.ND.EDLJ/-{)IS 

University of Notre Dame"s Study Abroad Program in 
Angers, France 
'"Should I stay or should I go'?" 
lNFORMAT.ION MEETING 
FINAL INFO SESSION BEFORE APPLICATION DEADLINE 
With Angers' Progran1 (~oordinator and returnees of the progran1 
-----·········································································--·-·------· ····-········-··························] 
Thursday, November 1, 2007 5:30-6:45 P.l\1 
t____1_1_8_D_e_B_~!~!~.!.~·-··-~-!.~.~~rootn Building 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2007 For Acade1nic Year 2008-2009 FalJ 2008 and Spring 2009 Applications available: www.nd.edu/-ois/ 

Wednesday, October 31, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 ­
Scoring 
continued from page 20 
"He's taken a lot of set pieces which takes him out of the box. He's been on the delivering end rather than the receiving end." 
While the rest of the Irish have certainly picked up the scoring slack so far this year, the team's scoring average of 1. 71 goals per game is down from last sea­son's average of 1.96. 
But Clark doesn't think the trend has anything to do with the team's new scoring balance. 
"We've played an exces­sively hard schedule, but I still think we've been having a good share of the games," Clark said. "In soccer, there's such a nne line between scoring and not scoring. From the point of view of opportunities creat­ed, we're at the same stage." 
The stats certainly back Clark's point. In its 17 games this sea­son, Notre Dame has aver-

Stanford 
continued from page 20 
Costanzo said. "Matt ran a good route and got open." 
Stanford missed the two­point conversion to keep the score 6-0. 
Keenan responded two drives later after freshman Jamie Koepsel made an inter­ception. 
Castello called an audible at the line of scrimmage, and junior Jim Zenker streaked across the middle to catch a 70-yard touchdown pass. Junior Alex Gonzalez con­vertml thn two-point conver­sion to take the lead 8-6. 
Junior Andres Villalba nnded Stanford's next drive with another interception, and the Knights took thn lead into halftime. 
Tlw second half began as a dnl"ensivn battle with both teams going thnw-and-out. 
Tlwn Stanford junior quar­tm·bark Brian Salvi took over the game. 
Salvi eompleted four passes to fn~shman Kevin Ritt to drive the ball down to the Keenan three yard-line. 
"They could not guard our widP receivers," Salvi said. "They had a linebacker on one of our receivers every play and he could not keep up." 
"The offpnsive line kept off the pressure, and Salvi got me the ball," Hitt said. 
Senior running back Tregg Duerson punched the ball in to give the Gril"fins a 12-8 lead. 
And the Knights could not find the end zone again. 
Sophomore Alex D~ak saeked Salvi, giving the Knights one last chance to drive the ball down the field, but a sack on Castello allowed time to run out and let Stanford capture the No. 1 seed going into the playoffs. 
"Tiw offensive line really protected me," Salvi said. "I only got hit once." 
Losing to their biggest rival left an impression on the Knights. 
"Thn loss makes me sick to my stomach," Villalba said. 
Keenan coach Matt Gibson saw many deficiencies he wants his team to work on in 
aged more shots per game 
(17.1 to 16.7) and corner kicks per game (6.18 to 
5.96) than in 2006. 
Notre Dame's lack of fin­ishes can be partly attrib­uted to bad luck. In a 1-0 loss to Michigan State Oct. 10, for example, the Irish had three balls cleared from the goal line. 
But with the Big East and NCAA tournaments drawing closer, it couldn't hurt Clark and the Irish if Lapira redis­covered last year's scoring touch. 
And it appears that Lapira may be doing just that. After scoring just twice in those first 12 games, Lapira recorded back-to-hack two­goal games against Connecticut and Indiana right before fall break. 
"Now that [Lapiral is back to full fitness, I wouldn't be surprised if he starts getting back to scoring more regu­larly," Clark said. "I have a funny feeling November could be a great month for [Lapira]." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
preparation for the playoffs . 
."We need to eliminate the mental mistakes. We got out­played, out-hustled, and out­everythinged, Gibson said. "We needed the wake-up call. Now come the playoffs and it is gut-check time. Look for a different Keenan team in the playoffs." 
Dillon 12, Alumni 0 
Dillon came out firing in the second half of its game Tuesday to beat rival Alumni. 
The game was called after the first half on Oct. 18 due to a thunderstorm, with the score tied at zero and the teams at just 32 combined yards. Dillon sophomore quarterback Joe Garigliano threw two interceptions and neither team could sustain a drive. 
The Big Red, who had already clinched a playoff. berth, knew that to improve their seed from eight to seven, they needed to win by 14 or more points. 
"Our offense was struggling in the first half before fall break," Dillon captain Alex Duffy said. "We knew we had to score 14 points ... so we came out with intensity." 
Dillon received the ball to start the second half and drove down the field, capping off a 65-yard drive with a touchdown run by Garigliano. Garigliano finished with 10 carries for 58 yards. 
After Dillon's defense forced Alumni to go three­and-out on the next drive, the Big Red returned a punt to Alumni's 16 yard-line. Sophomore running back Josh Stull took the next play in for a score to put Dillon up by 12. . 
"1 was very pleased with how the offense played in the third quarter," Duffy said. 
But the Big Red were unable to increase their lead and will be the No. 8 seed in the playoffs. 
"I think we're going to come in under the radar," Duffy said. "I have no doubts that we can come out and beat any team out here if we play the way we're capable of playing." 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu and Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
UNCG 
continued from page 20 
The tournament's individual medalist was Louisville's Derek Fathauer, who shot a total of tO­under over three rounds. Fathauer defeated his nearest competitor, Kent State's Brett Cairns, by five strokes. 
Irish junior Josh Sandman entered the final round tied for second at four-under, but fell far out of contention with a final round of 77. Sandman finished tied for 15th with a total of one­over. 
The final round score was uncharacteristic for Sandman, who was the top Notre Dame scorer in the fall season. The five-over score was just the third time in 13 rounds that Sandman posted a score over 73, and just the second time Sandman's score did not contribute to the team's round. 
The second-lowest scorer for Notre Dame was senior captain Greg Rodgers, who tied for 25th place at four-over. Finishing one stroke behind Rodgers was soph­omore Doug Fortner, who tied for 29th. Fortner was the most consistent Irish starter in the 
-
ish, the Irish gained postseason standing by defeating No. 25 Arkansas by 10 shots. Notre Dame also finished a single stroke behind No. 11 Wake Forest. 
The Irish will not return to action until February, when the team begins its spring session at the John Hayt Invitational in Florida and prepares for confer­ence play. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
tournament, firing rounds of 7 4, 74 and 73. 
Sophomore Kyle Willis shot a total score of nine-over 225. Willis tied for 49th in his second start of the season for the Irish. 
Freshman Tyler Hock fmished last among the Irish starters, tying for 63rd at 12-over. Hock finished the tournament on a positive note, however, with a final round of 72 that featured six birdies and a costly quadru­ple bogey. 
Despite the disappointing fin-

Students interested in starting a new club must submit a proposal by November 2, 2007. Details on proposal contents may be found on the SAO website: 
http://sao.nd.edu/studentgroups/listing 
Questions? Contact Mary Kate Havlik at 
mhavlik@nd.edu, or by calling 631-7308. 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, October 31, 2007 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Team moves on 
with 3-game win 

Belles beat Thunder, will face Calvin in MIAA semifinals 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's, the fifth send in the MIAA tournament, shoekP-d f'ourth-sn11d Tri-Stat11 in round onn Tunsday with a 3-0 sweep. 
Thn Bnllns improved to 13­17 with thn 30-19, :HJ-20, 31­29 win while Tri-State ended its snason with a 13-15 mark. Thn Thunder swept thp, Bnllp,s twk11 during the n1gular sea­
SOIL 
Saint Mary's jumped out to a <J-2 lead in the opening game and cruised to an early 1-0 edge in the match. 
The Belles did not start game two as wnll, quickly falling behind 7-2. But Saint Mary's put together a 17-7 scoring spree and never let the Thunder back into the game. 
Tri-Statn opnned game three with another 7-2 advantage, but Saint Mary's again perse­vered. The Belles worked to cut the deficit to 20-1 <J. 
But the Thunder struck back. taking a 2H-25 lead. The Belles wern able to comn back with six of' thn gamn's final snvon points to finish tho mateh. 
Thrnn Belles postnd double­doubles on tlw evnning. Frnshman outsidn hitter Andrea Sasgen had a team­high 15 kills and 13 digs to lead the squad. Sophomore middle blocker Lorna Slupcznyski contributed 13 kills and 14 digs while senior setter Amanda David lead a strong offensive effort of 45 assists and produced I 0 digs on defense. 
Junior middle blocker Kaela Hellmann and freshman mid­dle blocker Jacee Watson each chipped in 11 kills for the Belles ofl'ense. 
Saint Mary's advanced to the semifinals of the MIAA tourna­ment for the second year in a row. On Friday, the Belles will take on top-seeded and nation­ally ranked Calvin for the sec­ond-straight year in Grand Hapids, Mich. 
To face Calvin and finish the season strong, head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek has an agenda. 
"The key will be us playing with the heart and soul of win­ners -putting in that extra effort to make that dig, get to that set, dose that block, be in position to pass the ball to tar­get, communicating on the court to teammates," Schroeder-Biek said. "Just bning determim1d to finish the season strong. Our key is our mindset." 
The Belles take on Calvin at 

7:30 p.m. Friday in the semifi­nals of the MIAA tournament. 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Navy 
continued from page 20 

on offense this year, especially on the ground, but it has struggled defensively, giving up more than 450 yards on offense and 38 points per game. But Weis said his team, which has managed just 10 points per game this year, will have to fix many of il'i own prob­lems to have success. 
"I think the most important thing lis I that we understand a lot of our problems are related to internal things, not external things. and I think that the first thing we have to deal with -it wouldn't make a difference who the opponent was -is take care of our internal problems as far as growing and becoming a better team," Weis said. 
Hughes' brother dies 

Earl "Tony" Hughes, the broth­er of Irish freshman running back Hobert Hughes, passed away sud­denly Monday. Weis said Hughes is excused from practice this week and might not play Saturday. 
"I told him eome back whenev­er he's ready to eome back," Weis said. "I mean, something like that, how can you give him a time fi·ame? lie might be baek tomor­row, he might be back next week. I told him whenever -I just made sure we covered ourselves with academics and things like that. But when something. a tragedy like that happens, I think the most important thing is you have to worry about the kid, not worry about him as a football player." 
Recruits firmly committed 
Weis said one of the reasons Notre Dame has been able to hold on to all of its committed reeruits through a 1-7 start is that the coaching staff keeps the high sehool prospects informed of the day-to-day operations of the team. 
"We've involved them more into our everyday -anyone who's jumped on board and said, 'yes,' we involve them to everything that's going on," Weis said. "In other words, they're not like out­siders. Once they say, 'yes,' and the commitment is a two-way deal, we treat them like they're here, so they know everything that's happening just the way everyone else does." 
Weis said the information from the coaehing staff makes the recruits feel like they're already part of the team -and helps them better undnrstand the rea­sons for Notre Dame's struggles. 
"They obviously have to with­stand thn ribbing from the people in the towns they're living in or the kids they're going to school with," Weis said. "But I think they ~iew t~emselves as part of the future. 
Notre Dame eurrently has 21 committnd recruits who constitute a dass that is rated No. 1 in the nation by Scout.eom. 
Wide receiver shakeup 
Sophomore Hobby Parris and freshman Duval Kamara moved ahead of junior David Grimes and sophomore George West on the official depth ehart this week. Parris and Kamara have been Notre Dame's most productive wide receivers this season, catch­ing 22 and 19 passes, respective­ly. 
West has caught 15 passes this season, but has seen less balls thrown his way in recent weeks. Grimes has been hampered by a leg injury since the Purdue game. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


The Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business and The Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide 
Proudly Present 

Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
"Business and Human Rights" 
Klaus Leisinger Chairman Novartis Foundation 
Wednesday, October 31,2007 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 

.-----------------------­
Wednesday, October 31, 2007 
The Observer+ TODAY page 19 ­
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLACK DoG 

MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
DEUCES MANOR 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Stella Dally and Bruce Venzke 
35 With shaking 44 "What an idiot I 57 Totally gross hands, perhaps am!" 
58 Pelvic bones 46 Arrives 36 "Rule, Britannia" 49 Plumlike 60 Go far and wide composer 

Chinese fruit 37 Letter-shaped 61 Part of Florida's 
50 Fish eaten cold 
Gold Coast, 51 Foil-making informally 39 Automatic-drip giant machine maker 63 Restaurant 
beam 

52 Specialists in 
V.I.P.: Abbr.
storytelling?

41 Busy viewer's convenience 53 Druids, e.g. 64 Misreckon 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
TASTES LIKE fAILURE 
66 Rival of Old El Paso 
67 Opera's _ Te Kanawa 
68 Useful insect secretion 
69 Not just hypothesize 
70 It's hard to believe 
71 Singer Sumac 
Down Animal hunted in one of Hercules· 

12 labors 2 _dacapo 3 It's embarrassing 
to eat 4 Spa offerings 5 Tree of life, in 
Norse myth 6 Kauai keepsakes 7 Some 
needlework 8 Beach cover-up 9 Be indisposed 
10 Those who don't behave seriously 11 Mother-of-pearl 12 Clinton adviser Harold 13 Termites and such 19 Patella 
21 Old Turkish title 25 Fashion designer Elie 
27 Pioneer in 331/3 
r.p.m. records 28 Photocopier woes 29 Land on the end of a peninsula 30 Sounds from a 
teakettle 31 Ordeal's quality 

Ans: "(I I]-( I I I I I I]" 
Yesterday's  I Jumbles:  DRONE  MONEY  (Answers tomorrow) EMBARK OBJECT  
Answer:  Can be knitted while mending  - 
A BROKEN BONE  
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Amit Paul, 24; Winona Ryder, 36; Kate Jackson, 59; Richard Dreyfuss, 60 
Happy Birthday: Change what isn't working for you. It's the uncertainty of not knowing where you are heading that plays on your nerves. Develop a strategic, well-thought-out means to achieve your goals. Your backup plan will be equally important and will give you strength and courage. Your numbers are 10, 19, 27, 30,35,41 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Rid yourself of guilt or the feeling that you can't do something. It's time for you to try something new. Make a move if it will lead to a more exciting future. Change will inspire and exhilarate you. 4 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You've got the added discipline needed to get things done. Talk to people in the know and you will get the answers required. A serious look at something that someone else presents may lead you in a new di­rection. 3 stars GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will tend to change your mind a lot, confusing the people with whom you talk about work, money and finances. It may be lhat you don't want anyone judging you for the purchases or choices you make. Face your responsibilities. 3 stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): Say what's on your mind. You may feel emotional about a lot of different things going on in your life today but, keeping your thoughts locked up will not solve your problems. Deal with each issue as it arises. 3 stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Help the people who count most--the ones you live with or hold close to your heart. This is a perfect time to sign or negotiate a con­tract that is of a personal nature. A decision you make will help you achieve greater stability in your life. 3 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You've got plenty to think about today but, if yon let your emotions take over, you may find yourself in the center of a sticky situa­tion. Changing your mind or getting involved in something you know little about will lead to criticism. 2 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): By taking a creative approach to something you want to do, you will stir up a lot of interest. You should be able to get both the pros and cons thrown at you by those who can help you make it to the next level. Openness will be your ticket to success. 5 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't be too quick to invest in something that ounds good but that you know little about. Stick to what you know and do best. Impulsive purchases will lead to financial arguments with the people you are in­
volved with. 3 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't spend on love, trying to attract some­one who isn't likely to be impressed with your financial irresponsibility. Put your money into something that helps you get ahead. You may be charming but, with­
out closing deals or saving, yon will not get ahead. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Stage meetings or get involved in a convention 
or tradeshow that will honor something that you want to learn more about. You 
can increase your income ifyou aren't impulsive. Financial security will be yours 
if you are cautious. 3 stars 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Everything is turning in your favor today but don't take advantage of others. Now is not the time to push everyone to do things your way. Back off and let people come to you. 5 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): You will tend to be unreasonable when it comes to emotional matters. Take a step back and fully understand your position and the position of those who oppose you. Don't make a Hnal decision thoughtlessly. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You take life seriously and formulate and execute your plans carefully. You are unique, emotional, sensitive and have widespread interests. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
JUMBLE 
JJlJJWrnrbJJl. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
YANDD 
j
rJ r I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
HUBYS 
j 
1  ri  I I  
tSTAPOL] (]  I  (]  
www.jumble.com  

IUNGOLEj
rJ r cJ 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
WH~N ~X'P~NS~S W~R~ C.OMPUT~O, TH~ OWN~RS W~RE--­


Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
CROSSWORD 
Across 'That stinks!," 

quaintly 4 Ladder danger 8 It makes Frisky 
frisky 14 Evangelical sch. with a 4,000+ 
enrollment 15 On the deep 16 Top gun 17 Alternative to 
Gleem 18 "Pretty Woman" and "Waiting to 
Exhale" 20 Shul's shepherd 220n its way 23 Stew (over) 24 Shepherds' 
locales 26 Like harp seals 28 Actor who got 
his start on TV's "Gimme a Break!" 

32 Roadie's load 33"Master" 34 "I Love Lucy" co­
star 38 Wing, e.g. 
40 Archie Bunker, famously 42 Belgrade resident 
43 Dummy Mortimer 
45 Hit Sega title character 47 Gene material 
48 Shooter of 
westerns 
51 What virgin drinks lack 
54 1847 novel subtitled "A Narrative of Adventures in the South Seas" 
55 Gladly 56 Oscar-winning role for Helen Mirren, in brief 59 Part of a metropolitan area 62 They're exercised when cycling 65 Canals 


-
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, October 31, 2007 page 20 
FOOTBALL 

43 and counting? 
Irish to put lengthy win streak against Navy on the line 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
Notre Dame has beatlm Navy 
4:l straight times, but that's not the streak that matters this week­mul. Irish mach Charlie Wnis said Tuesday at his weekly prnss eon­li1renn1. 
"I think that when you're 1-7, you're trying to beat whoever you'ro playing, and I think that tlw strPak isn't rwarly as impor­tant as winning a ganw at honw," lw said. 
Notre l>ame has lost its last four home games, with its last home win coming against Army, 41-IJ, in the linal mnt!~st at Notre l>ame Stadium last season. 
"I think that's the strnak that tlwy'rn most concerned with, winning a game at home," Weis said. 
The coaeh said that the 4-4 Midshipmen, who lost to l>nlaware 51J-52 last week, should not be smm as an nasy win liJr thn struggling Irish. 
"I think that if you -anyone who takes Navy lightly, especially with the lirnpownr they show on ollimse -eould lind themselves on the short end of tlw stick very easily," Wnis said. 
Navy has run up big numbers 
see NAVY/page 18 


MEN'S GOLF 

Irish finish ninth at UNCG 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Tlw Irish will Pnter lhn oil" sna­son on a disappointing noln after sliding l'rom a tin li1r first into a ninth-place finish at the UNC<; Bridgoslone Collngiate Championship Tuesday. 
Notn~ Damn concluded its fall s1mson with a final-round scon~ of 29 I at Fornsl Oaks Country Club in (;reensboro, N.C. 
Teeing on· later than originally sehnduiNI after an overnight frost advisory, the Irish contin­uml tlwir fall down the leader­board in the third round. 
Notre Dame started Tuesday lied for sixth, but dropped behind I.SU. Central Florida and Wakn Forest in tlw f'inal 18 holes. 

Tlw Irish. who wern lind for lirst after tlw opening round. fin­islwd 20 strokes back of first­place Louisville. After a rough first round, the Cardinals ended with rounds of seven-undnr and ninn-undnr to f'inish at four­under par for thn tournamnnl. 
Finishing thrl'n strokes behind Louisville was Mississippi Stall\ whkh dosnd with a strong final round of 11-under. Central Florida, North Carolina and Kent State rounded out the top live. 
see UNCG/page 17 


MEN'S INTERHALL 
Stanford beats rival Keenan 
Dillon prepares for playoffs in victory over Alumni Tuesday 
By JARED ]EDICK and 
ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writers 
The adjoined-dorm rivalry healnd up Tuesday when Stanford recaptured the Chapel in a 12-8 vietory over Keenan. 
The battle of unboatnns started slowly, with Stanford punting after a long drive into Keenan territory. 
Keenan's first drive ended with an interception thrown by freshman quarterback Brian Castello. Stanford soph­omore Chris Gill returned tho ball to the Keenan 8 yard-linn. 
The Griflins almost blew the strong field position when a muffed snap pushed them back 17 yards, but junior David Costanzo filled in at quarterback for one play and immediately threw a 25-yard touchdown to Grifl'ins senior Matt Frankenfeld. 
"1 saw that they were jump­ing the deep post route," 
see STANFORD/page 17 
MEN's SoccER 

Lap ira gets help on Irish offense 
Team features more balanced attack than last season's squad 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame has scored nine goals in its past four games, with six different Irish play­ers finding the back of the net. Such a scoring distribu­tion would have been unheard of last season when the phrase "Irish goal" became synonymous with Joseph Lapira. 
In 2006, Notre Dame scored 45 goals. Twenty-two of those tallins came from l.apira, who won the liermann Trophy. 
llow things have changed in just one year. 
Through 1? games this sea­son, Lapira has accounted for only one-fifth of Notre Dame's scoring, and his teammates have seen their names on the seoresheet far more often. 
One player who has helped pick up the slack has been jack-of-all-trades senior Hyan Miller. After playing primarily 
at fullback in his first three­plus seasons in South Bend, injuries forced Miller to play at both wide midfielder and holding forward early this season. lie has responded with six goals, which ties him with Lapira for the team lead. 
"[Millnrl ean play anywhere on the field, and he can do it well," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "lie's a very good alhletn. lie can move with the ball at pace, and that's a tremnndous asset to havn while attacking," 
Understanding the grnater balance in Notre Dame's scor­ing, though, inevitably leads back to Lapira. 
Although hn did not miss many games, calf and ham­string injurins limited Lapira early in the season, and tlw senior forward scored only two goals in the team's f'irst 1 2 games. F u rthe rm o r·n, Lapira has taken on more of a distributive role this year as he leads the team with eight assists -already surpassing last year's total of six. 
"lie's added another compo­nent to his game," Clark said. 
see SCORING/page 17 




