
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Trustees chair awarded Laetare 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT 
News Writer 

Patrick McCartan, the chair of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees, will join the company of accomplished Catholics like former President John F. Kennedy and activist Dorothy Day as the 131st recipient of the University's Laetare Medal. 
McCartan will receive the medal during the University's undergraduate commencement exercises May 20. 
The Laetare Medal -first awarded in 1883 -is typi­
cally regarded as the most prestigious award given to American Catholics. It is modeled as an American compliment to the Golden Rose, a p a p a 1 award that has existed since the 11th centu­ry. 
"Notre Dame's aus­picious 

McCartan

institutional position as it enters a new era owes much to Pat McCartan's strong and sure leadership," University President Father John 
Jenkins said in a news release. "We hope to convey with this, our highest honor, the gratitude Notre Dame owes him as well." 
McCartan has been cited in surveys conducted by The National Law Journal as one of the country's most respected and influential lawyers. 
He was elected Board chair and University fellow in 2000 and has served on the Board since 1989. His tenure as chair was highlighted by the election in 2004 and inaugu­ration in 2005 of Jenkins as Notre Dame's 17th president. 
McCartan graduated from Notre Dame as an under­
graduate in 1956 and earned a juris doctor degree from Notre Dame Law School in 1959. He served as a law clerk for former Supreme Court Justice Charles Evans Whittaker before becoming a senior partner at Jones Day, an international law firm with 30 offices worldwide. 
Among other honors, McCartan has received the Archdiocese of Cleveland's 1994 Archbishop Edward F. Hoban Award and the Anti­Defamation League's 1998 Torch of Liberty Award. He also received an honorary degree from Notre Dame in 
see LAETARE/page 8 

SUB anticipates SNL speaker series 
Group hopes to bring Andy Samberg, Colin Quinn, Ana Gasteyer to campus 
By BECKY HOGAN 
News Writer 
Its posters boast of being the "best group on campus," and while this self-proclaimed slogan is entirely unofficial, the Student Union Board might not be all talk. SUB's most recent proj­ect is an upcoming "Saturday Night Live" speaker series, which plans to feature three SNL alums talking about their experiences on the long-running sketch comedy show. 
"We wanted to have a few of the SNL alums and some of the current members to come to campus and talk about what it's like to be on the show," SUB Manager Patrick Vassel said. 
Although the speakers have not been confirmed, Ideas and Issues commit­tee members said they hope to host Ana Gasteyer, Colin Quinn and Andy Samberg. 
"By virtue of their pro­fession, any of the speak­ers will be entertaining," Vassel said. "We are inviting them more as a speaker series than as a comedy series." 
The challenge, he said, is "trying to put together 
see SUB/page 4 

DUSTIN MENNELLNThe Observer SUB brought Ken Jennings, a 74-time "Jeopardy!" winner, to speak to students two years ago. SUB hopes to bring in multiple "SNI:' alums this year. 
N DSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Center 
•


receives nevv grant 
Robinson program teaches financial tips 
By EVA BINDA 
News Writer 
The Key Bank Foundation recently awarded a $20,000 grant to the Robinson Community Learning Center -a substantial gift that the center's director said will help its staff teach young peo­ple to make good financial deci­sions. 
The grant will go toward the Robinson Center's Youth Financial Literacy Training Program, which provides "young people in middle and high schools with the tools to think about their own financial success," center director Jay Caponigro said Monday. The Robinson Center, which uses vol­unteers from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, has been teaching students about financial literacy for the past four years, he said. 
Approximately 60 students from the South Bend area will participate in the program, which teaches young people simple skills like managing a checking account and more advanced concepts like investments and returns. The pro­gram also instructs students how to use credit cards and manage debt. 
"We certainly hope that chil­dren understand the value of money," Caponigro said. "We hope that, as they leave the pro­gram, they're making choices about how to spend their money that are based on how to make money work for them instead of 
see GRANT/page 4 



Prayercasts reach students, alums 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT 
News Writer 
Campus Ministry has taken prayer at Notre Dame into the 21st century with the launch of the ND Prayercast -a Web site where lis­teners can hear prayers, homilies and music. 
The project, created by Folk Choir Director Steven Warner, uses streaming media technology to allow Internet users to listen to a selection of music, Gospel reading and prayer with a Notre Dame fla­vor. 
The Prayercast features musi­cians from the Folk Choir and homilists like Zahm rector Father Dan Parrish. St. Edward's rector Father Ralph Haag and Campus Ministry director Father Richard Warner. 
"All the music is re-recorded for 
see PODCAST/page 6 


Zahm freshman Nadeem Haque visits the new NO Prayercast website from his dorm room. 
New editors assume roles at The Observer 
Observer Staff Report 

The Observer's new depart­ment editors take over their 2007-08 General Board positions today, although two of the edi­tors will not begin until August and three positions are not yet filled, Editor in Chief Maddie Hanna said Monday. 
Three of the 14 positions are being filled by those who have previously served in their posts. Kyle West has served as con­troller since the fall of 2006 and will continue through this semester before becoming busi­ness manager next fall. 
Joey King will remain as editor of the Viewpoint Department through 2007-08. He has held that post since the spring of 2006. 
Dustin Mennella will also serve as photo editor through 2007­
08. Mennella was appointed to the position in the spring of 2006. 
The nine new General Board appointments are: 
+ Karen Langley, news editor 
+ 
Chris Khorey and Chris Hine, sports editors 

+ Tae Andrews, scene editor 

+ 
Katie Kohler, Saint Mary's editor 

+ 
Madeline Nies, graphics edi­tor 


+Jessica Cortez, ad sales manager 
+ Kelly Gronli, ad design man­ager 

"All of the editors bring signifi­cant talent and experience to their respective positions," Hanna said. "l am confident the 
see BOARD/page 8 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, March 20, 2007 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Loving the college life 
The moment I stepped onto the Notre Dame campus, I fell in love with the school. 

Ever since, I've continued to love the school and the people, but until recently, I was not ready to call it my home. Throughout the year I have been one of those students who get so excited to go home for break. 
I think, "Wow, I Casey Carney am so excited to go home and see 
my old friends Photographer and family, sleep in my queen sized bed, shower without sandals, eat food outside the dining halls, etc." But this spring break I realized something. I realized that Notre Dame is my new home, my college friends are my true friends, and, frankly, I really enjoy (and I am now used to) the freedom of college. My spring break started out awe­somely. I went home to Scottsdale, Arizona. My parents picked me up from the airport Friday afternoon, and then I met up with my best friend, and we all went out to din­ner. On Saturday, my mom took me shopping and we got our nails done. I went to a spring training game with my mom and my dog (kind of random I know) on Sunday and then on Monday I went to lunch and did some more shopping with more friends. But by Tuesday I was already bored. Some friends and family went back to work and back to school while others had already drifted so far apart from me. I've grown so accustomed to the freedom of living on my own {well at least away from my parents). I can do whatever I want, whenever I want, with whomever I want on campus. At home I'm back under my par­ents constraints. My parents aren't too strict or anything, but I can't randomly leave at two o'clock in the morning if I feel like it. And I can't come home one night without an explanation if I don't want to give one. Also, at home my friends aren't always a 10-minute walk from my room like they are at school. It takes a little more planning and driving to hang out with anyone at home. All in all, I really enjoy the freedom and convenience of living on campus. As spring break comes to an end, I'm ready to head back to my home under the Dome. My week off school has been relaxing, but, like my fam­ily and friends in Arizona, I'm ready to get back to work and back to life as I now know it. During this break, I realized Notre Dame is my new home, and my friends at school are my true friends. As ironic as it is, I'm excited to sleep in my twin­sized bunk bed, share a room with my amazing roomies, use the com­munity bathrooms, shower with sandals and most of all, wear a sweatshirt again. 
The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Casey Carney at ccar­neyl@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publi­cation and strives for the highest standards ofjour­nalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW DID YOU SPEND YOUR SPRING BREAK? 



crocs. with President 
Bush in the beautiful country of Guatemala. ,, 
IN BRIEF 

Notre Dame men's baseball will play Cleveland State at 5:05 
p.m. today at Francis Eck Stadirnn. 
Registration for a Summer Session at Notre Dame begins Wednesday. Students interested in taking classes during the sum­
mer  can  register  through  
insideND.  
A  screening  of  the  film  

"Sometimes in April" will be held in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium Wednesday at 7 p.m. The screening is sponsored by BEHWA, an organization made up of survivors of the 1994 Rwandan genocide and The Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
The Notre Dame Chamber Players will perform with guest violinist Nokuthula Ngwenyama at 8 p.m on Wednesday in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $10; $8 for faculty and staff; $6 for seniors and $3 for students. 
The Ballroom Dance Club invites dancers of all skill levels to join them in 205 Rockne Memorial for a night of mambo and foxtrot from 8 p.m. to tO.The cost for a night of dancing is $4. 
Dennis Jacobs, vice president and associate provost, and William Hamsey, associate pro­fessor of philosophy will speak at Theology on Tap Wednesday at 9 p.m. The subject of the Legend's event will be "To Cheat or Not to Cheat? The Academic Honor Code." 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

Dan Mcinnis  Dan Rodgers  Dave Tighe  Elena Brandewie  Kelsey Young  Michael Angulo  
junior  sophomore  junior  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Sarin  Siegfried  offcampus  McGlinn  Badin  Alumni  
"I ghost rode  "J went to Rome  "/had a day  "/went to  "Swimming  "I used your  
,,the whip.  to chill with my  with Mr. Beam  Immokalee,  illegally in  tuition dollars  
homeboy, Benny  and Madame  Florida, and  Mexico. In  to hang out  

XVI." TAAKA." found out why McDonalds is the devil. ,, 

DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer Irish guard Russell Carter makes a pass against a Georgetown defender at the Verizon Center in Washington D.C in January. Notre Dame lost that game and lost again to Winthrop 74-64 last week, ending their bid in the NCAA tournament. 
OFFBEAT 
Dead passenger upgraded to first class 
LONDON -A first-class passenger on a flight from Delhi to London awoke find the corpse of a woman who had died in the economy cabin being placed in a seat next to him, British Airways said Monday. The economy section of the flight was full, and the cabin crew needed to move the woman and her grieving family out of that compartment to give them some privacy, the airline said. 
The first-class passenger, Paul Trinder, told the Sunday Times newspaper that he was sleeping during a February flight from India and woke up when the crew placed the dead woman in an empty seat near him. 
"I didn't have a clue what was going on. The stewards just planked the body down without saying a thing. I remember looking at this frail, sparrow-like woman and thinking she was very ill," the newspaper quoted Trinder as saying. 
Man chases down stolen truck in underwear 
EASTVALE, Calif. -The owner of a stolen pickup truck, wearing only his underwear, used his wife's van to chase down the thief. The 29-year-old man was sipping coffee in his garage before dawn Sunday when his Ford Ranger suddenly started up and roared off. 
The man, whose name was withheld, then jumped into his wife's van and, wearing only his underwear, gave chase. 
Inside the floor-installer's pickup were his tools. 
"He said 'I just couldn't let my truck go because it's my livelihood,"' said Kirk Durbin of the California Highway Patrol. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
0::: 1.&.1 
::c !;: 
1.&.1 
3: 
...I 
ct 
(.) 

0 
..... 
LOW 35 LOW 29 LOW 40 LOW 42 
Atlanta 71 I 49 Boston 43 I 31 Chicago 43 I 27 Denver 69 I 38 Houston 76 I 63 Los Angeles 67 I 54 Minneapolis 42 I 19 New York 48 I 37 Philadelphia 54 I 41 Phoenix 85 I 61 Seattle 47 I 40 St. Louis 56 I 41 Tampa 80 I 59 Washington 59 I 39 
Tuesday, March 20, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BoARD OF GovERNANCE 
Group co-sponsors Midnight Madness event 
sorships to Midnight Madness 
By LIZ HARTER in the past, although no one at 
News Writer the meeting knew how much 
was awarded last year. 
Saint Mary's Board of The prize committee has Governance (BOG) members received donations from the awarded a $3,000 co-sponsor­College's Information ship to the prize committee of Technology department and the College's annual Midnight Sodexho Food Services, as well 
Madness event at the group's meet­ing Monday. The "The grab of committee will use 
Midnight Madness is 
the money to pur­
to have big prizes so
chase prizes to give out at the people will want event. 
to come.'' 

Midnight Madness, which 
Cassie Calion 
will be held Friday, is an all­Midnight Madness school event prize committee co-chair 
where each class competes in events like tug-of-war and pie eating contests to show school and class spirit. 
"Our main goal [for the event this year] is to get more people involved because in years past people felt left out in the games that were going on," said Julie DeMaio, co-chair of the prize committee. "Due to this, we need more prizes." 
BOG has awarded co-spon­
as a class ring from Jostens and various gift certifi­cates from businesses in the communi­ty, DeMaio said. 
"The prob­lem is that we've gotten five of this and five of that and we'd 
preferably like to have the same thing for, say, 23 people on the same team," DeMaio said. 
Event organizers also hope to feature larger prizes such as a big screen television, prize committee co-chair Cassie Calion said. 
"The grab of Midnight Madness is to have big prizes so people will want to come," Calion said. 
In the course of deliberations about how much to award to the committee, BOG members pointed out that Linda Tirnm ­the former vice president of Student Affairs who donated big-ticket items in past years -was no longer at the College 
"I know Dr. Timm would donate a few big prizes, and those won't be there this year," admissions commissioner Annie Davis said. 
In other BOG news: 
+ 
The Women Honoring Women Dinner will be held on Wednesday. Professors Astrid Henry, Susan Latham and Nancy Turner were nominated for the award, and the recipi­ent will be announced during the dinner. 

+ 
The Student Academic Council will host a luncheon Monday at 12 p.m. for students and faculty in the West Wing of the Noble Family Dining Hall to discuss possible changes to the general education require­ments in the curriculum at Saint Mary's. 


Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 




SlOO back! 
Enroll in a Kaplan comprehensive course option 
by March 31 and get a $100 rebate! 
Classes starting soon!! LSAT: March 24th MCAT: May 5th GMAT: March 20th GRE: March 19th at the South Bend Kaplan Center 
Take advantage of this limited-time offer. Enroll today! 
1·800-KAP·TEST I kaptest.com/rebate 
~rest o3mes a:re ~eg:stereJ trademarks of thei~ respect!lfe owner&. Hhis o~r app:1es 0:1ly I¢ er.rol!r:'lents for G,_1AT. GRE. LSAT. M.CAT. DAT OAT. and PCAT Clas!>fccm Courses. Class.,. S Cour!!;es, 15-. 25-. and 35~l-iour P•i-v<:ite Tutt::-ring Program~. Pre!TliL:rr. Ootme Govrses. LSAr E:<tremf3. GMAT Adv-anced. and Admiss:on:s Consu!lin~ PacKages 1n the 50 Un:ted States. t'le 01s!rsct of Colurnbia Md Prl~rto Rioo. ilrJd 1n Caigaty, Edmonton, Montreal, Otta'h"a. Tornf!to. Vanoo1svgr .and Victona. Canada Cannot be comb:~ed w:t:t any rJthtt: offer. discount. 01" pff.H:l01.11'..11l Tll be eh~1tJie. you m:.~st e~rol! between Marc.~ 1 2007 and Mo1ch 31. 2007 Certal:'l conditions apply :See redemptu:m iorm at kaptes; co•nirebate or a1 K~plar: cenlers for compl~e details ''Co•ldlt:orn; anti restrrctions apply. For wmple;e guarantee ehg:bilit-1 requirements "ViSit kapteS"!: com!hsg The Higner Score Guara:nee app11es only to Kap!an col.lrse:. taKen ann comp:eted within the Um!-sd States P!Jsrto R~ro. Canada. Me:-uco the Umted K1ngdom. am! France 
HIGHER TEST SCORES GUARANTEED OR YOUR MONEY BACK" 



page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 20, 2007 


Proprietoo Warren &Lir:da

!l?occo's 
Restaurant 
?irs/Or~y~.:nd::Axux in 700JnI Since 1951 
Specializing in JtEiiJn Entrees 

Tues.· Thurs.: 5:00PM· t1 ;00 PM Fri. -S4t: 5:00 PM • i :00 AM 537 Noon St. loois • Scutn Bend. IN 574·l:lJ-2464 
SUB 
continued from page 1 
a unifying theme of speakers that wouldn't be too serious." "We try to bring people in that change things up a bit," 
Vassel said. "The SNL idea just came up this semester -there is a lot of diversi­ty there, and it is a show that everybody knows, so everybody ral­lied around this idea." 
In the past SUB has hosted speak­ers in entertain­ment, including "Late Night with Conan O'Brien" drummer Max Weinberg and "Family Guy" 
writer Mark Henry, but this is the first time that SUB has organized a speaker series· ­a project Vassel said would not have been possible with­out the help of Student Activities. 
"This is a unique project that is largely being made possible by the Student Activities Office," Vassel said. "Normally we wouldn't be able to take this on without Student Activities. We organ­ized it, and they are helping us out with the financial resources." 
Vassel said SUB Ideas and 

The Core Council is seeking new undergraduate student members, regardless of sexual orientation. 
Applications are available in the Office of Student Affairs (316 Main Building) or on the Core Council web site http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ Applications are due by 5:00 p.m. on Tuesday, 
March 23, 2007, and can be submitted to the Office of Student Affairs. 
Please visit our web site for more information. 
"We wanted to 
recognition
have a few ofthe ranges from $10,000 to
SNL alums and 
$30,000 dollars 
some ofthe current 
per speaker,members to come Vassel said. 
to campus and talk After contact­
ing different
about what it's like 
agencies, the to be on the SUB committee shows." 
narrowed down the list of speak­ers it had draft­
Patrick Vassel 
ed over winter SUB manager break to the 
Issues committee program­mers Brian Sarnacki and Kerri Keselowsky "put in a lot of hours and research" con­tacting prospective speakers and working with their agents to determine whether the speakers would be within SUB's budget. 
The cost to 
bring in speak­
ers with name 
ones that would 
fit SUB's budget. 
"Once agents give a stan­dard asking fee, we pass it on to our advisor, and a contract is worked out," Sarnacki said. 
Sarnacki said SUB plans to make an announcement in the near future indicating when the speaker series will take place. Vassel said SUB also hopes to have one SNL speak­er at the beginning of April and another during anTostal. 
Bringing celebrities to cam­pus is not always an easy task, he said, since many of the speakers that SUB planned to book for the Speaker Series have busy schedules. 
"Tim Meadows was one of the people at the top of our list, and we were disappoint­ed when his agent called and said he wasn't going to be able to make it," Vassel said. "We plan on being a lot more diligent about this in the future to make sure we don't have another situation like this." 
Meadows was scheduled to appear Feb. 28 as the first speaker in the series, but can­celled because he is in the process of filming an upcom­ing movie. 
Despite scheduling conflicts, Vassel said most celebrity speakers are eager to accept the invitation to speak to Notre Dame students about their experiences. 
"Generally it doesn't take a lot to get speakers to come to campus. They are generally willing and interested -it just comes down to a matter of their schedules and what they've got going," Vassel said. "In terms of willingness, we receive a very positive response." 
Many of the speakers that SUB has hosted in the past have requested campus tours. 
"Most speakers that come tend to want to walk around campus, and see the Dome and the Basilica, but beyond that most of the speakers haven't requested anything too unusual," Vassel said. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 
help students obtain the skills they will eventual­ly need when they open their own checking accounts, manage a budget and make financial plans, he said. 
This grant will be used for instruction pur­poses and will provide incentives for students to fin­ish the program. Students who stick with the pro­gram will proceed to the next level of 
financial education, the entre­preneurship program, Caponigro said. Some students who are in this program get the chance to go to the National Conference for Teaching Entrepreneurship to get a first­hand look at finance. 

"We hope that, as they leave the program, they're making choices about how to spend their money that are based on how to make money work for them ... " 
Jay Caponigro Robinson Community Learning Center director 
adult job-training courses. Since its founding, more than 3, 700 participants and 2,000 volun­teers have been involved with the Center. 
Contact Eva Binda at jbinda@nd.edu 
also credited the Gigot Center in the Mendoza School of Business as a "great partner" in providing finan­cial literacy edu­cation. 
The Robinson Community Learning Center was founded in 2001. Located on North Eddy Street, it coordi­nates the Youth Justice Project, the violence pre­vention program Take Ten and 
Grant 
continued from page 1 
being on the other end of work­ing to make money." 
The goal of the program is to 
"We send up to five students to Wall Street to really understand the world of finance," Caponigro said. "This grant will help with that." 
Key Bank awards grants to programs that encourage finan­cial literacy, Caponigro said. He 



ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, March 20, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WJRE SERVKEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Kidnapped Italian journalist freed 
ROME -An Italian journalist held for two weeks in Afghanistan said after his release Monday that he saw his captors cut off the head of one of the two Afghans kidnapped with him and thought he would be next to die. 
In an interview with RAI TG3 News, Daniele Mastrogiacomo described a harrowing experi­ence. "I saw him be decapitated," he said. 
He said the kidnappers threw the Afghan to his knees and suffocated him in the sand as they cut his head off. 
"Then they wiped the knife on his clothes. I was shaking. Obviously I thought 'it's my turn now,"' Mastrogiacomo said. 
Mastrogiacomo said he was struck in his back and head with an AK-47 during his cap­ture, but was not hurt at any other time. "If they needed a blanket, they gave me one too. If there was bread to share, they shared it with me, so that was not a problem," he said. 
North Korea nuclear talks continue 
BEIJING -International nuclear negotia­tors inched closer Monday toward setting a timetable for North Korea's disarmament after the biggest obstacle hindering discus­sions was removed -$25 million in frozen North Korean funds. 
Envoys from the two Koreas, the United States, Japan, Russia and host China met to review progress made by five working groups established under a hard-won Feb. 13 agree­ment. 
The deal gives the North 60 days to shut down both its main reactor and a plutonium processing plant, and allow U.N. monitors to verify the closures. In return, the regime is to receive energy and economic assistance and a start toward normalizing relations with the 
U.S. and Japan. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Gitmo terrorist confession released 
WASHINGTON -A Yemeni portrayed as an al-Qaida operative and a member of a terrorist family confessed to plotting the bombings of the USS Cole and two U.S. embassies in Africa, killing hundreds, according to a Pentagon transcript of a Guantanamo Bay hearing. 
The transcript released Monday was the fourth from the hearings the military is hold­ing in private for 14 "high-value" terror sus­pects who were kept in secret CIA prisons before they were sent to the U.S. facility in Cuba last fall. 
Last week, Waleed bin Attash said he helped plan the 1998 embassy bombings in Kenya and Tanzania that killed more than 200, according to the transcript. 
NY cops plead not guilty in shooting 
NEW YORK -Three police officers charged in a 50-bullet barrage that killed an unarmed groom on his wedding day appeared before a judge Monday and had their first encounter since the shooting with the victims and their families. 
In a packed, tension-filled courtroom, the three officers stood with their hands clasped during the 20-minute hearing as they pleaded not guilty in the shooting that killed 23-year-old Sean Bell and wounded two of his friends. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Body found in Purdue utility room 
WEST LAFAYETTE -Authorities expect on Tuesday to identify a body that a Purdue University worker found inside a residence hall's utility room, a school spokesman said. 
Purdue spokesman Phillip Fiorini said the body was removed Monday afternoon from the high-voltage utility room in Owen Hall a few hours after it was discovered. 
The coed residence hall, which houses about 700 students, is near the last report­ed location of missing Purdue freshman Wade Steffey, 19, who vanished Jan. 13. 
Fiorini said the Tippecanoe County coro­ner's office expects to identify the body on Tuesday. 
RUSSIA 

Gas explosion kills, injures miners 
Siberian coal mine blast traps 50; Putin orders Emergency Situations Minister to act 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -A methane gas explosion deep in a Siberian coal mine killed at least 78 people and left another 50 trapped Monday in Russia's worst mining dis­aster in a decade. 
Among the missing were company officials and safety experts who had been inspecting a British-made hazard-monitoring system, said Sergei Cheremnov, a spokesman for the regional government in Kemerovo where the mine is located about 1,850 miles east of Moscow. 
A British man and his interpreter were among those killed, he said. It was unclear what the two were doing in the mine. 
Up to 200 workers were in the Ulyanovskaya mine when the explosion occurred about 885 feet underground in the coal­rich southern region known as the Kuzbass, emergency and regional officials said. At least 75 people were res­cued. 

Rescuers were checking a large section of the mine for the missing people and were in contact with some of the surviving miners, officials said. It was unclear if the survivors were in immediate disasters in the past decade. similar enterprises and con­underground coal mining danger. In 2004, a blast at a mine on solidated operations, selling without the required (venti­
"Their work is complicat­the outskirts of the city raw and semi-processed lation) from the surface for ed by a great number of killed 4 7 workers and in material to steel smelters, methane," he told Ekho obstructions," Eduard 1997, a methane explosion electricity producers and Moskvy radio. Sivtsov, a spokesman for killed 67. other major industry. Some Sergiev also blamed the Yuzhkuzbassugol, the com­Russia's mining industry government officials have blast on quota systems that pany that operates the mine, fell into disrepair when gov­accused private companies encourage miners to work told NTV. ernment subsidies dried up of cutting corners on safety faster and harvest more 
Russian television broad­after the Soviet collapse. At measures to save money. coal, potentially leading to cast footage of one miner, least 30 workers died in Alexander Sergiev, chair­carelessness. blackened and semicon­Russian mining accidents man of the Independent The families of the dead scious, lying on a stretcher last year, including 25 killed Coal Miners' Union, said the will each receive at least on his way to a hospital. At in a fire at a Siberian gold Ulyanovskaya mine operat­$25,000 in compensation, least five miners were mine. ed with new equipment, but Kemerovo Gov. Aman injured. In the U.S. last year, 47 he said that human and nat­Tuleyev was quoted by 
President Vladimir Putin workers died in coal mine ural factors always created ITAR-Tass news agency. ordered Emergency accidents, including 12 in the potential for accidents. Nobody answered repeat­Situations Minister Sergei the Sago Mine accident in He said miners may have ed calls to Yuzhkuzbassugol. Shoigu to travel to the area, West VIrginia. It was the U.S encountered a pocket of The company, an affiliate of and the industrial regulato­industry's deadliest year methane while working and Russian coal and steel com­ry agency Rostekhnadzor since 1995, when 47 were he called for new safety reg­pany Evraz Group SA, is sent investigators. killed. ulations to help prevent Russia's leading producer of 
The mine is located in the In recent years, conglom­such accidents. coking coal, producing 14 city Novokuznetsk, the site erates like Evraz SA have "It's necessary, in my view, million tons in 2005, accord­of two of the deadliest mine bought up coal mines and to pass legislation forbidding ing to the Evraz Web site. 

Senate debates restricting Gonzales 
him. for a new attorney general. But nei­
Associated Press 

"No one's prophetic enough to know ther were they endorsing the embat­
what the next 21 months hold," Snow tled Justice chief. Specter said he will 
WASHINGTON -Attorney General said. "We hope he stays." reserve judgment until he gets all the Alberto Gonzales' hold on his job grew The Justice Department also facts; Hatch has not given interviews more uncertain Monday as the Senate planned to turn over to Congress late on the subject, his spokesman said. debated removing his authority to uni­Monday a couple of thousand pages of Either way, Gonzales faces a tough laterally name U.S. attorneys and the new documents related to the firings. week. The Senate was devoting White House said it merely hoped he White House counselor Dan Bartlett Monday and Tuesday to debating and would survive the tumult. said that Bush had full confidence in voting on rescinding his authority to 
Asked if Gonzales had contained the Gonzales and that the attorney general appoint replacement U.S. attorneys political damage from the firing of had not offered to resign. without Senate confirmation. eight federal prosecutors, White House The good news for Gonzales late "We need to close the loophole spokesman Tony Snow said, "I don't Monday was that the two most senior exploited by the White House and the know." Republicans on the Senate Judiciary Department of Justice that facilitated 
Snow declined to predict how long Committee, Arlen Specter of this abuse," Senate Judiciary Gonzales would stay in his job but reit­Pennsylvania and Orrin Hatch of Utah, Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy, erated President Bush's support of both former chairmen, had not called D-Vt., said opening the debate. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, March 20, 2007 
Podcast 
continued from page 1 
the Prayercast," Steven Warner said. "It's designed to give the feeling that you're alone in a room with a few musicians. It's a very personal feeling, more intimate than a track from a CD." 
The idea came to Warner in 
November as a way to reach out 
to the increasingly "tech-savvy" 
body of Notre Dame students 
and alumni. 
"The Church meets people where they are-people work­ing 60 to 80 hours a week in a business or between classes and tests," Steven Warner said. "They need time to pray." 
Warner said he is especially concerned with the struggles alumni face in the working world. 
"When people leave here, there's a spiritual void," he said. "We're trying to fill it." 
The use of this type of tech­nology is new at Notre Dame, Steven Warner said. He credited the Office of Information Technologies (OIT) -and lots of hard work -with helping him turn prayer into something downloadable. 
"[Director of Campus Ministry] Father Warner said to get it up and running, so we spent months working with [Information Technology Manager] Vincent Melody at OIT and studying podcast technolo­gy," Steven Warner said. 
The Prayercast will soon be available through iTunes and will be downloadable to iPods ­something the developers had always intended, said Campus Ministry intern Josh Stagni. 
"[Our goal] is to have the Prayercast show up on search results when people search for Notre Dame on iTunes," Stagni said. 
The voiceovers in the Prayercast are provided by Emmeline Schoen, a 2003 Notre Dame graduate and current employee of Saint Mary's Campus Ministry. She became involved with the Prayercast ini­tiative in part because of her participation with the Folk Choir as an undergraduate. 
"It's a new technology, and I think that especially the student population is very attuned to it," Schoen said. "It makes sense to use another avenue to approach and connect with people spiritu­ally." 
Students like junior Elizabeth Stewart have generally been responsive to the Prayercast ­there have been almost 3,000 hits on the Prayercast Web site since the first broadcast on Ash Wednesday. 
"I think it is a great tool [to bring] traditional Catholicism into today's culture," Stewart said. "Integrating technology and faith holds so much poten­tial for reaching a computer­driven society and making prayer available in a whole new context." 
Steven Warner said the response from Notre Dame stu­dents, alumni and friends has been strong. 

"I've gotten e-mails from all over the country -Boston, Toledo, Chicago, D.C. -and a lot of students at Notre Dame," Steven Warner said. 
The Prayercast can be found at www.ndprayercast.org by clicking on "Weekly Prayercast." It will play in Quicktime format, but the iTunes-playable version should be available soon. 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 
Search continues for 111issing Boy Scout 
Associated Press 
McGRADY, N.C. -Warmer weather raised rescuers' hopes Monday as they searched for a third day for a 12-year-old Boy Scout who disappeared while camping with his troop in the rugged mountains of western North Carolina. 
Michael Auberry vanished in the heavily wooded terrain after lunch Saturday with the other Scouts and troop leaders. Searchers found his mess kit late Saturday within a mile of the camp site, but no other sign of him, authorities said. 
"We're still confident in call­ing it a search-and-rescue oper­ation," National Park Service spokeswoman Tina White said. 
The boy's father, Kent Auberry, told the News & Record of Greensboro: "Any sign that he's still out there, that he's still fighting, we're clinging to." 
Temperatures fell to the 20s before dawn Monday, but sunny skies and temperatures in the 50s prevailed during the day. Overnight weather was expect­ed to be milder, with lows in the 40s, but there was a chance of rain Tuesday. 
"The temperatures definitely play a factor. It has been very cold at night, but this young man was very well dressed. He had a fleece jacket on and another jacket," White said. "We've had people who have been out a week or longer and survived." 
About 70 people aided by dogs and a helicopter searched the area's logging roads and trails and scoured off-road regions. 
During the night, searchers planned to fly a plane with heat-sensing equipment and have dog teams out, among other efforts, she said. Searchers planned to stick to the trails at night to avoid los­ing anyone else. 
The FBI was among the agen­cies on the scene, "but we still do not have any indication of foul play or that this young man has been abducted," White said. 
The boy's mother, Debbie Hayes, told the Winston-Salem Journal that Michael had only potato chips to eat and no water. She also said he takes Ritalin to control attention­deficit disorder. 
Park rangers worked with the boy's family to learn about Michael's wilderness skills and how he might react to the situa­tion, White said. 


This ay u 
Start at Ernst &Young, and your career is headed in the right direction. With our award-winning training programs, you'll have the resources you need to 
enhance your skills. It's an environment that 
promotes your personal and professional growth 
and success. So there's only one way to go-up. 
Visit us on campus or at ey.com/usjcareers.
LaJ 
FCJRTUNE" 
100 BEST
z 
COMPANIES;:g
TO WORK FOR~ 
0 

Quality In Everything We Do 
Tuesday, Ma.rch 20, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
12,226.17 +115.76

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,452 128 812 3,020,304,212 

.AMa·····y· 
·Wiii[il·:~r~~~~.l~il·&l~;:lli!il~lll~mliiLIIli[IIIooll~i
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
S&P 500 1,402.06 +15.11 NIKKB(Tolc.YoJMilli!i ''tl,f9~l!lllllllillil~::·l:·l,i!l!l~ FTSE IOO(London) 6,189.40 +58.80 

S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  + 1.21  +1.67  140.-20  
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  +J.03  +0.44  43.27  
SERVICEMASTER CO (SVM) .  + 12.47  +1.68  15.15  
HOST HOTELS (HST)  +2.21  +0.58  26.88  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  +0.57  +0.026  4.571  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.20  -0.01  4.895  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.47  +0.022  4.717  
5-YEARNOTE  +0.63  +0.028  4.498  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.52  56.59  
GOLD ($fTroy oz.)  +0.40  653.90  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.35  107.80  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  117.6200  
EURO  0.7516  
POUND  0.5141  
CANADIAN$  1.1772  

IN BRIEF 
Chiquita admits to paying terrorists 
WASHINGTON -Banana company Chiquita Brands International admitted in federal court Monday that for years it paid Colombian terror­ists to protect its most profitable banana-grow­ing operation. 
The company pleaded guilty to one count of doing business with a terrorist organization. The plea is part of a deal with prosecutors that calls for a $25 million fme and does not identity the several senior executives who approved the illegal protection payments. 
The agreement ends a lengthy Justice Department investigation into the company's financial dealings with right-wing paramilitaries and leftist rebels the U.S. government deems terrorist groups. 
Pq)secutors say the Cincinnati-based company agreed to pay about $1.7 million between 1997 and 2004 to the United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia, known as AUC for its Spanish initials. 
The AUC has been responsible for some of the worst massacres in Colombia's civil conflict and for a sizable percentage of the country's cocaine exports. The U.S. government designated the AUC a terrorist group in September 2001. 
Chiquita has said it was forced to make the payments and was acting only to ensure the safety of its workers. 
Prepackaged potato salad recalled 
WASHINGTON -DBC Foods Inc. is recalling potato salad sold both prepackaged and at deli counters, because it could be contaminated with Listeria monocytogenes. Listeria is a micFoorganism that can cause serious or fatal infections in children, the elderly or those with weakened immune systems. It can also cause miscarriages and stillbirths among pregnant women. Healthy adults can experience symp­toms including fevers, severe headaches, nau­sea and diarrhea. 
The prepackaged potato salad was sold in 1­pound containers under the labels Midwest Pride, Coburn's and Cash Wise. The containers have lot number 7057018A. The Midwest Pride salad has an expiration date of April 2. The Coburn's and Cash Wise salads have expi­ration dates of March 9. 
The potato salad sold at deli counters, packed to order, was available in 89 stores in Minnesota. North Dakota, South Dakota, Wisconsin, Iowa, Michigan and Nebraska. 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

New superjumbo jet reaches U.S. 
Plane's wingspan as wide as football field; Airbus has yet to sell model to U.S. carriers 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The latest jetliner to claim the title of world's biggest passenger aircraft completed its inaugural flight to the United States on Monday, flying on football field­length wings and a prayer that airlines will want to shell out $300 million to buy the behemoth double­decker jet. 
The four-engine Airbus A380 descended from a sunny sky and touched down at John F. Kennedy International Airport at about 12:10 p.m. EDT, to the cheers of onlookers. As the plane made its way toward the terminal, a pilot waved an American flag. Minutes later, a sepa­rate A380 arrived in Los Angeles, with just a crew and no passengers. 
The first U.S. flights are a chance for plane builder Airbus and German airline Lufthansa AG to show off the jewel of Airbus' offer­ings to potential American buyers and to the airports they hope to turn into flight bases for the jet. 
The 239-foot-long jet can seat as many as 550 pas­sengers, hold 81,890 gal­lons of fuel, cruise at 560 mph and fly some 8,000 nautical miles. 

Despite the plane's impressive statistics, The U.S. flight marked 10,000 jobs and spinning early Monday at Frankfurt Airbus has yet to sell any one of the highest-profile off or closing six of its International Airport when of the planes to U.S. carri­maiden trans-Atlantic voy­European manufacturing the plane took off as ers. The A380 comes with ages since 1969, when the plants. Louis Gallois, co­Lufthansa Flight 8940 for a pricetag of about $300 Concorde, the world's first chief executive of parent the eight-hour trip to million, although that fig­and only commercial company European Kenned~ Onboard were ure varies depending on supersonic transport, Aeronautic Defense and nearly 500 people, includ­the airline's order, said arrived at JFK from Space Co., said Airbus has ing pilots, Airbus crew John Leahy, chief of opera­London. The European­endured "the worst year" members, 23 Lufthansa tions for Airbus. made Concorde was in its history. cabin crew and several 
Leahy called the A380 retired from British and Lufthansa chief pilot hundred passengers, most­the flagship jetliner for the French service in 2005. Juergen Raps, who flew ly Airbus and Lufthansa 21st century, much like the Airbus has been beset by the A380 to New York, employees along with Boeing 747 was in the last management and financial said that despite the some reporters. century. Airbus has about problems, including a two­superjumbo jet's size, it The flight operated as if 160 global orders from 15 year delay to the A380 was nimble and respon­it were a commercial one airlines for the new plane, that wiped out more than sive. with full dining and enter­which has already made $6.61 billion in forecast "If I were to compare it tainment services. tests flights in Europe and profits. The flight is a to driving, you would think A separate inaugural Los to Asia. chance to prove that the this would be like driving a Angeles flight originated in 
Waiting in the wings, plane will be ready when truck or a bus," he said Toulouse. France. With however, is Boeing Co., the first deliveries are inside the plane's cockpit. only 23 people aboard, an which now has competi­made in October. "It's like driving a Airbus crew flew the A380 tors to the A380 in early Airbus is seeking to Ferrari." to Los Angeles for airport production. recoup its losses by cutting The air show began "compatibility" tests. 

FDA looks for pet food contaminant 
Agency investigators are looking at throughout North America under 51
Associated Press other ingredients as well. The wet­brands and cat food sold under 40 WASHINGTON -As many as one style pet food was made by Menu brands, including lams, Nutro and in six animals died in tests of suspect Foods, an Ontario, Canada-based Eukanuba. The food was sold under dog and cat food by the manufacturer company. both store and major brand labels at after complaints the products were Menu Foods told the FDA it Wal-Mart, Kroger, Safeway and other poisoning pets around the country, received the first complaints of kid­large retailers. the government said Monday. ney failure and deaths among cats The FDA has yet to tally how many A federal investigation is focusing and dogs from pet owners on Feb. 20. reports it has received of cats and on wheat gluten as the likely source It began new tests on Feb. 27. dogs suffering kidney failure or of contamination that sparked a During those tests, the company fed death. The company has reported recall last Friday of 60 million cans its product to 40 to 50 dogs and cats just 10 deaths, of nine cats and a sin­and pouches of the suspect food, said and seven animals -the mix of gle dog. Stephen F. Sundlof, the Food and species was not immediately known "We are still trying to find out what Drug Administration's top veterinari­-died, Sundlof said. The contami­the true picture is out there of ani­an. nation appeared more deadly to cats mals. We're talking about 1 percent The ingredient, a protein source, is than to dogs, he said. of the pet food (supply) and it's really commonly used as filler. The recall now covers dog food sold just impossible to extrapolate at this 
I 
I J 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 20, 2007 
Dame to a Catholic "whose genius has ennobled the

Laetare 
arts and sciences, illustrat­

continued from page 1 ed the ideals of the Church and enriched the heritage of 
1999. 
The recipient of the Laetare Medal is announced each year on the fourth Sunday of Lent, known as Laetare Sunday in the Catholic Church. 
The medal has been awarded annually at Notre 
humanity." 
The medal bears the Latin inscription, "Magna est veri­tas et prevalebit," which translates as, "Truth is mighty, and it shall prevail." 
Contact John-Paul Witt at 
jwittl@nd.edu 


Board 
continued from page 1 
staff assembled will build on the tradition of excellence The Observer has established." 
Langley is a junior English major and Journalism. Ethics and Democracy minor who lived in Farley Hall but is studying in Dublin for the year. Langley. a Short Hills, N.J., native who will take over the news nditor position in the fall, is a formnr associate news flditor. She started working at The Observer during the fall semestllr of her fn~shman year and has since reported on topies. induding the living wage and aca­demic freedom debates at Notre Dame as well as implkations of the amended South Bend disor­derly house ordinance. 
This spring, Ken Fowler will serve as the managing editor for news, and for the next several weeks, former News Editor Kate Antonacci will bfl an associate in the department. 
Khorey is a junior from Siegfried Hall majoring in history and minoring in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. A native of Grand Rapids, Mich., Khorey previously served as an associate sports edi­tor and has worked for The Observer since the fall of his fresh­man year. He has covered a vari­ety of beats, including men's bas­ketball, Notre Dame women's soc­cer and baseball. 
Iline is a sophomore history major and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy minor from Scranton, Prmn. Iline, who lives in Fisher I!all, started working at The Observer during the fall semester of his freshman year and has cov­emd beats ineluding men's basket­ball, Notre Dame swimming and Notrn Dame women's golr. 
Andrews is a junior American Studies major who lives in Stanford llall. Thn Niskayuna, N.Y., native started working for Tho Observer as a Scene writer during the fall semester of his sophomorn year. 
Kohler, a sophomore political science major who lives in Holy Cross I!all, is a Philadelphia native. She joined The Observer during the fall of her freshman year and has since covered vari­ous Saint Mary's fWents including administrative changes at the College. 
Nies is a sophomore marketing and graphic design major from Basking Ridge, N.J., who lives in McGlinn I tall. She worked for The Observer this year as a graphic designer. 
Cortez is a junior marketing and Japanese major from Bethlehem, Penn. Cortez lived in Welsh Family Hall but is currently studying in Japan. She has worked for The Observer as an advertising execu­tive since the fall of her sopho­more year. Current Ad Sales Manager Sharon Brown will retain her position through the end of the semester. 

Gronli, a junior graphic design major from Deer Park, Ill.. lives in Cavanaugh I I all. She has worked for The Observer Ad Design department this past year. 
West is a junior accountancy major from Houston, Texas. He lives in Fisher Hall. 
Mennella, a junior from Keough Hall, is a civil engineering major and Seattle native. He has worked in the Photo Department since tl1e fall of his freshman year. 
King is a mechanical engineer­ing and philosophy major who has worked in the Viewpoint Department since ilie spring of his freshman year. King came to Notre Dame from London, England, and lives in Siegfried Hall. 
Systems Manager Alejandro Gerbaud and Web Administrator Rob Dugas will be retained at ilieir positions iliis spring tmtil replace­ments are found. 
The Observer is accepting appli­cations for the controller and sys-. terns manager positions as well as a new web design manager posi­tion. Please direct all inquiries to Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu. 

Tuesday, March 20, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
College alumna discusses human trafficking 
Powell describes work with Health and Human Services on international issues to social work majors, additional students 
By LIZ HARTER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's 2005 graduate Michelle Powell returned to campus Monday to give a presentation on the role of social workers in human traf­ficking -a subject she became familiar with through her work with the United States Department of Health and Human Services. 
The presentation, entitled "Human Trafficking: The Critical Role of Social Workers in Anti-Trafficking Practices," was attended by about 40 stu­dents, faculty and Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
The social work majors and minors who attended were informed of the problems that social workers are faced with when they encounter human trafficking cases. Powell described what social workers could do if they encountered victims of human trafficking. 
"Social workers play an important role [in identifying human trafficking]," Powell said. "It's really hidden, but it's also in plain sight if you know where to look for it." 
Powell works with the Department of Health and Human Services to identify human trafficking victims and put them in touch with the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, which has outreach services for victims. 



Human trafficking is the recruitment, buying, selling or coercing of indi­

smuggling and trafficking is that trafficking victims don't consent [to their treatment], people who are smuggled con­sent and when 
viduals for a they get [to the profit, Powell "Social workers play United States] said. they are free,"
an important role [in
"It's modern­she said.
identifying human 
day slavery," She acknowl­she said. "It's trafficking]. It,s really edged that also the fastest hidden, but it,s also while some peo­
growing indus­ple may agree
in plain sight ifyou
try in the world, to be brought to if you want to know where to the United call it an indus­look for it. ,, States, and try." therefore be 
Powell began considered a 
Michelle Powell 
her presenta­smuggled per­tion by clearing SMC Alumna son, they could up common become a traf­misconceptions ficking victim about human trafficking. once they get here. 
She said that while many "It's like a surprise ending," think trafficking victims fall she said. under the sex trade and Powell invited Sister forced prostitution, sex traf­Madeline Therese Wilhoit, a ficking is not the only form of Holy Cross sister, to speak to human trafficking that the the group as well to address government recognizes and the goal of prevention and 
legislates  how the church  
against.  is involved.  
"It doesn't have to be enforced prosti­ "The difference between smuggling  Wilhoit spent 14 years in Ghana a  
tution or some­one forced to make videos," she said. "It  and trafficking, is that trafficking victims don ,t consent  country in West Africa -as a missionary and encountered a  
could be the migrant farm worker who lives in a house  [to their treatment], people who are smuggled consent  lot of instances of human traf­ficking involving women in the  
of 20 people and is regularly beaten at night."  and when they get [to the United States] they are free.,,  poor villages taken to Amsterdam. "We had the  
Powell  also  terrible problem  
informed audience another  the that com­ Michelle Powell SMC Alumna  in the villages of these nicely d r e s s e d  
mon  miscon­ business  men  
ception  about  coming  to  the  

trafficking is that it is inher­village and telling the women ently trans-national. that if they came to 
"The physical movement of Amsterdam, they would be the victim is not a requisite," able to work in restaurants she said. "Trafficking is not and nice places and be able to only an international problem. make money to send back to ... It's here too." their families," she said . 
Human trafficking is also "When [the women] got to confused with smuggling, Amsterdam, they were put which is always an interna­into illegal labor practices tional problem, Powell said. and the sex trade." 
"The difference between The mission with which 
Wilhoit served visited about 
800 to 900 villages to try to warn the women that these men could not be trusted, but some were still taken, she said. 
She said that if the women were found after being taken to Amsterdam and returned to Ghana, they often were dis­owned by their families because they had promised to bring money with them, which they did not have. 
Safety is also an issue when victims want to return home after being rescued in America, Powell said. 
"They might want to go home, but it might not be safe for them," she said. "Their families may disown them or their families may be threat­ened." 
Human trafficking legisla­tion has gained momentum in the United States, Powell said. The three main goals that the government works toward are protection, prosecution and prevention. 
"Our ultimate goal is self­sufficiency for victims," Powell said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT

page 10 Tuesday, March 20, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORIS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Katie Kohler PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer i.s the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe Universiry ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the rnajoriry ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publishe-d Monday through ffiday except during exam and Vllaltion period~. A s~ption ro The: Ob~rver Is. $100 iUr one-a~;:~.dcmic year; $55 fur one semester. 
Th¢ Observer-is published ar:: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Scmd address -c<>rreaions-to: Notre o..,~ IN 46550.()779 The Observer Periodical poStage paid at Notte Dame­PO. Box779 and additional mailing offices. {)24 Sourh Dining HaU 
Notte Dame, IN 465:56-0779: 
The Observer fs a member ofth.e Assodatcd f'tes:i. All !eproductianrights: are reserved. 
Onward to victory 
Last week I saw the movie "300," a visually stunning epic about a handful of brave Spartans who held a vast Persian army at the pass of Thermopylae long enough for the Greek city-states to mobilize for war, which they ultimately won. Today, the fourth anniversary of Operation Iraqi Freedom, about 150,000 American service men and women are fighting against radical lslamists in Iraq as part of the larger Global War on Terror. After four years, pop­ular support for the war has fallen and the new Congress is working toward a timetable for withdrawal from the embattled nation. 
Though some believe Congress has a mandate to force a withdrawal of U.S. forces from Iraq, this would be a disas­trous policy not only for the Iraqi peo­ple but also for the United States. Retired General Barry McCaffrey, a correspondent for NBC, expanded on this point when he wrote, "In less than six months, our 150,000 troops could fight their way along strategic with­drawal corridors back to the sea and the safety provided by the Navy. Several million terrified refugees would follow, the route of our columns marked by the burning pyres of aban­doned military supplies demolished by our rear guard. The resulting civil war­fare would probably turn Iraq into a humanitarian disaster and might well draw in the Iranians and Syrians." Whichever way you look at it, with­drawal threatens the security of Iraq, the Middle East and the people of the United States. 
The 2006 elections brought a number of new members to Congress who advocate a withdrawal from Iraq, and the shift in public opinion against the war has led a number of politicians who initially supported the war to now favor redeployment out of the country. Many members of the 11Oth Congress owe a great deal to the progressive­socialist anti-war constituency who worked for their election, and they have frequently used two major argu­ments to justify their commitment to withdrawaL First, some argue that Iraq is in the midst of a civil war, and that Americans should create a timetable for withdrawal to force Iraqis to take care of themselves and to avoid putting American soldiers between two warring factions. Second, some argue that the absence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq made the war pointless and that no more American troops should die for a misguided war. 

The first argument was made by U.S. Representative Joe Donnelly when he said, "At some point the Iraqis have to stand up ... and decide that they don't want any more death and destruction" ("Donnelly shares views on election, Congress," Feb. 21). Donnelly voted against "the surge" in a non-binding resolution on Feb. 14, and in his remarks said, "Our brave troops should not be placed in the middle of an incredibly dangerous civil war." Though Donnelly does not favor with­drawal, I find it absurd when he says that the Iraqi people are not standing up for themselves when Iraqi army and police forces suffer casualties daily, Iraqi politicians face assassination and kidnapping and Iraqi citizens tlp off Iraqi and coalition forces to thfl hiding places of foreign terrorists. Iraq does face civil strife, but the current crisis is hardly a civil war. 
Even if Iraq is considered to be in eivil war, and thus a place unsuitable for American troops, surely Bosnia and Rwanda would have qualified when the left demanded that Americans be put in harm's way in those far-off locales. The same progressives and socialists who demand an immediate end to the mission in Iraq tend to also demand military intervention in Darfur, where the very mission would place American peacekeepers "in the middle of an incredibly dangerous civil war" as Donnelly so eloquently put it. If we left Iraq, we would be abandoning Iraqi Sunnis and Shiites to the same fate as Rwandan Hutus and Tutsis. Removing troops from Iraq, which is unstable due to our actions, because of civil strife is thus unjustifiable if military interven­tion is deemed appropriate in Sudan and is ongoing in Bosnia. 
Some politicians also draw on the lack of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq to support their commitment to withdrawal. For a moment, pretend that in May 2003, U.S. forces discov­ered three nuclear warheads in Samarra, Iraq. Would this discovery justify the loss of almost 3,000 of our finest citizens to anti-war progressives and socialists? Would the existence of these three devices turn Iraq into a strong, unified state free of al Qaeda? Would Saddam's former nuclear stock­pile deter Iran and Syria from their plan to turn Iraq into a client state? 

The reasonable answer to all three of these questions is no. We would face exactly the same problems in Iraq that we face today even if Saddam's alleged weapons were found in 2003, and we would have to continue to fight to pre­vent al Qaeda or Iran and Syria from dominating the country. 
It is not the sectarian violence or lack of WMDs that is driving calls for with­drawal, but the ongoing mismanage­ment of the war and the difficulty of achieving victory. General George S. Patton once said, "Americans love a winner and will not tolerate a loser. Americans play to win all the time. I wouldn't give a hoot in Hell for a man who lost and laughed." During the 2006 election, voters saw President Bush as the man who lost and laughed, determined to stay the course in a los­ing war, and Americans showed their disdain for that approach through the ballot box. 
After Sept. 11, the Bush Administration did not expand the size of the military to meet the needs of a protracted global conflict, and as a result, Operation Iraqi Freedom had inadequate troops from the beginning. Though "the surge" initially appears to be working, the additional troops will not allow our presence to meet the ratio of one soldier for every 20 hostile civilians necessary to successfully com­bat an insurgency. 
Fortunately for our country, there are politicians who are focusing on strengthening our military and winning the war. Senators Joe Lieberman, John McCain and others have called for an increase in the size of the Army and Marines and stronger Congressional oversight for the war to ensure its progress. The progressive-socialist anti-war constituency claims that the 2006 election provided a mandate for withdrawal, but its friends in Congress cannot gain enough votes to cut off funding and end the war. I think it is far more likely that Americans play to win, and want the 11Oth Congress to lead them to victory where Republicans failed to do so, rather than down the road to ignominy and defeat. 
Jonathan Klingler is a senior man­agement consulting major and presi­dent emeritus of the Notre Dame College Republicans. He currently resides in Keenan Hall and enjoys Tolstoy and Matlock. He can be con­tacted via e-mail at jklingle@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Submit a Letter to the Editor or Guest Column to viewpoint.l@nd.edu 

. Guest Columns should be no longer name, year, and major. All submissions m ··contact phone number. Submissions must be in by 3:00p.m. to be considered for publication the next day. 
TODAV'S STAFF 
News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL 


QUOTE OF THE DAY
Kaitlynn Riely Deirdre Krasula Aaron Steiner Fran Tolan Viewpoint Becky Slinger How far will Notre Dame go in Bethany Scene 

"Half our life is spent trying to find
the NCAA hockey tournament? 

something to do with the time we have
Whitfield TaeAndrews 

rushed through life to save."
Graphics Matt Hudson 
Will Rogers American comedian 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT

Tuesday, March 20, 2007 
page 11 
Going green 

For Notre Dame, "going green" may for a Campus Greening Initiative. Grade grown foods? groups addressing environmental issues entail more than just its usual flooding of received: A-minus. Furthermore, while Notre Dame may are also notable. the pristine lawns with overactive sprin­Undoubtedly, the efforts of the newly have an outstanding architecture school, its Professor Andy Weigert mentioned the klers. reconstituted Notre Dame Energy and own building practices are anything but importance of mobilizing students on the 
The Sustainable Endowments Institute Environmental Issues Committee should be exemplary in terms of sustainability. Notre issue of the environment. There is such a 
has recently called attention to Notre Ashley Braun Dame's forgettable com­and Morgan mitment to environmen­Dill tal sustainability in its annual College Guest Sustainability Report Columnists Card, in which NO received an embarrassing D-minus in sus­tainable endowment and campus greening practices ("Institute gives NO poor grade," March 1). Unfortunately, it does not appear that the Institute actually communicated with anyone from Notre Dame knowledge­able about the area of sustainability before completing its analysis. 
Some of Notre Dame's top-20 competi­tors, such as Dartmouth and Stanford, received an A-minus in campus sustain­ability, the highest grade among all schools considered. A Dartmouth education, while it has about half our student population, has a price tag akin to Notre Dame at $43,341 with a $3.092 billion endowment, nearly matching our $4.4 billion. Given the comparable access to resources, Notre Dame is lagging far behind universities like Dartmouth in its commitment to sound environmental practices. The question then remains: What do these schools have that Notre Dame does not? 
Harvard: 16 full-time professionals and 40 part-time student employees working recognized, however we certainly cannot boast of an ambitious campus greening ini­tiative like that of Harvard. 
Dartmouth: An energy conservation pro­fessional who assesses and reduces fossil fuel usage and researches investment in Green Tag Renewable Energy Credits. Grade received: A-minus. 
IfNotre Dame had a comparable posi­tion, perhaps it could initiate participation in the U.S. EPA's Green Power Partnership, which provides universities with the appro­priate information and networks necessary for investing in renewable energy. Penn State and Duke are among the Green Power Partnership's top-10 college users of clean energy. We may beat these schools in football, but not in combating climate change. 
Williams College: This school decided to splurge an extra 20 cents per person per meal to purchase local, organic foods, resulting in a 30 percent increase in the last few years. Grade received: A-minus. 
Williams, a small liberal arts college in Massachusetts, has one-fourth of our stu­dent body but only one-third our endow­ment. You may have seen a few new "Locally Grown" signs in the dining halls but considering Notre Dame's expected 5.5 percent tuition increase next year, why not direct a few extra cents per person toward more sustainably produced and locally Dame has yet to integrate, and in fact has been resistant toward the implementation of, any LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) principles into its extensive construction habits, though not for lack of trying by some. Since our cam­pus seems to be fenced off and under con­struction once again, what about the plans for the engineering and law school build­ings? The new dormitories? Have green building techniques even been considered? If not, it's not hard to imagine the vast amounts of energy which will be required or the volume of waste which will be pro­duced by these buildings. Additionally, our (overworked) Building Services Department may report having recycled 
13.7 million pounds of waste in 2006, but where are the outdoor recycling bins on campus? 
In considering Notre Dame's extensive environmental shortcomings, it must be said that the report card was not entirely accurate or complete. The University has indeed taken significant strides in promot­ing responsible environmental practices. For example, Notre Dame students took the lead in implementing the campus-wide recycling program. Executive Vice President John Afileck-Graves reconstitut­ed the Energy and Environmental Issues Committee. The presence of The Energy Center on campus, as well as faculty place for students to become involved in the environmental movement at Notre Dame, and it has always welcomed stu­dents from a broad range of backgrounds. Notre Dame Students for Environmental Action (SEA) is a vibrant and active part of the Notre Dame community, working on campus, local and national issues. This semester, SEA is focusing on the develop­ment of an environmental and conserva­tion fund with the development office, as well as planning a week of action and edu­cation leading up to Earth Day in April, with campus and community-wide events. We encourage you to question Notre Dame's environmental policy, to speak up if you are frustrated, to educate yourself and become involved (sea@nd.edu). In the words of Pope John Paul II: 'The earth, with all its creatures, and the entire uni­verse call on man to be their voice." Our Notre Dame community cannot fail to be that voice. 

Ashley Braun and Morgan Dill are senior envioronmental science majors and co-presidents ofNotre Dame Students for Environmental Action. They can be con­tacted at abraun3@nd.edu or mdill@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Soulforce deserves fair treatment 
The recent visit of Soulforce Equality to Notre Dame was to increase visibility of GLBT issues on Christian campuses. As an Notre Dame alumnus, the restictive administration policies towards this minority community lead me to refrain from donating money during the annual funding drives. The recent obstacles faced by Soulforce do nothing but firm my resolve. GLBT stu­dents, faculty and staff are part of the Notre Dame fami­ly, or at least, they feel they are. 
But I'm ashamed of Notre Dame's stance, given that they claim to be a frontrunner amongst Catholic col­leges. All the while, they are being left behind as other schools practice to move towards equality and fairness. The administration stance negatively effects the bottom line, because in the fallout, GLBT students are turned away from attendance, faculty and staff are turned away from employment and all are barred from full par­ticipation in the Notre Dame community. But from my corner of the world, I see that Notre Dame has not only lost out on my donations from this discrimination, but on those of my brother, father, two uncles and a cousin -all Notre Dame grads. Fallout, indeed. 
Mitch Seymour 
alumnus 
Mar. 14 

Criticism of comtnencement speaker choice unfounded 
When I read that Saint Mary's students were protesting the selection of Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito as their commencement speaker, I was surprised. After reading that one of the pro­testers was emotionally shocked and angered by the decision, I felt confident that, upon reading the rest of the article, I would discover what Ali to had done that would make him ill-suited for the role of commencement speaker at a Catholic school, even though he is Catholic. 
However, in reading the article, I only found statements indicating that the protesters were in support of the buzzwords that NOW (National Organization for Women) used in its opposition to Alito. Ignoring the fact that NOW is about as credi­ble a source for the left as Pat Robertson is for the right, I think there are some misrepresentations of Alito's record that should be explained to students. 
For example, the protesters claim Alito has decided against women's rights on issues of sexual harassment. In Robinson v. City of Pittsburgh, the case used by NOW as justification for this com­plaint, Alito wrote the majority opinion. He merely stated that a higher-ranking officer was not culpa­ble for the sexual harassment committed by a sub­ordinate officer because the higher-ranking officer did not have supervisory control of that officer. In addition, Alito determined that, in this case, there was insufficient evidence that the offending offi­cer's supervisor had any knowledge of the harass­

ment. 

Neither of these rulings appear unreasonable, which is probably why this was the majority opin­ion. Yet, this ruling was deemed to support sexual harassment. Although Alito holds a different view on these issues than some Saint Mary's students, this difference does not mean that his personal beliefs are in contrast with the core values of Saint Mary's. Rather, it simply means that he interprets the law in a different manner than others. 
This perspective does not make Alito a sexual­harassment-loving, woman-hating caveman, or even a poor choice as Saint Mary's commencement speaker. Instead, it simply makes him a federal judge who is forced to make decisions based on laws -rather than emotions, religion or NOW's propaganda. 
Will Guappone freshman Fisher Hall Mar. 14 

Week of Action events raise Iraq war awareness 
This week marks the four year anniversary of the invasion of Iraq. As part of the Progressive Student Alliance's annual Week of Action, two events will be taking place on campus to remember the continuing affects of the war in Iraq. 
To remember the human cost of the war in Iraq, an exhibit entitled "Eyes Wide Open" will be in front of O'Shaughnessy Hall on South Quad. The exhibit provides a profound visual representation of the suffering caused by this war. 
The second event for today spon­sored by the Progressive Student Alliance is "The Ground Truth: A Marine's View on Ending the War in Iraq." Former Sergeant Liam Madden of the U.S. Marine Corps will be speak­ing in room 102 of DeBartolo at 7p.m. He will discuss his experience in Iraq and his current work as a member of Iraq Veterans Against the War. I again encourage you to please come to this event with questions for someone who has personally experienced the war. 
Since the invasion began, over 3,200 American service men and women have been killed and over 17,000 American soldiers have been wounded. A study done by the John Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, using the technique employed to estimate HIVIAIDS in Africa, found that the war in Iraq has killed about 655,000 Iraqis. After four long years of continued violence, we have learned the hard way that freedom does not come through occupation, justice does not follow an unjust war and peace does not come through the barrel of a gun. 
When we discuss the war in Iraq, it is imperative that we address the human face of the war. Whether it is the peo­ple of Iraq, the American soldiers still serving, the veterans who come back physically and emotionally affected or the veterans who have begun to speak out against the violence -this war is about people. I encourage you to please come by the "Eyes Wide Open" exhibit and "The Ground Truth" dis­cussion. 

Michael Angulo sophomore Alumni Hall Mar. 19 

r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
THE 0HSERVER 
CENE

Tuesday, March 20, 2007 
page 12 

By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA and 
BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Critics 

Rama: His arsenal includes jet packs and Aston Martins, but James Bond's only essential weapon is his license to kill. Does it ever expire? Not likely, at this rate, since it has helped Her Majesty's most lethal civil servant rack up a kill count on par with a small nation. 
Surprisingly, it's taken 46 years and 20 movies for us to finally see what Bond has to do to earn his mighty gift. It's not pretty, and the gritty prologue to "Casino Royale" makes sure we'll never forget his first two kills. 
On a snowy night in Prague, Bond sits cloaked in shadow, waiting for his second victim to walk through the door. When he does, a remarkably blunt conversation takes place. 
"How did he die?" asks Dryden, a high-ranking British official selling trade secrets. 
The cold, icy stare from Daniel Craig's Bond tells us exactly what to expect from the latest man to wear the 007 mantle. 
"Your contact? Not well," he says curtly before eliminating Dryden. 
With this latest film, director Martin Campbell follows up the success he had with 1995's "GoldenEye"-the last great 007 adventure -by intro­ducing us to the best Bond since Sean Connery left the franchise. Craig's unyielding intensity and physical prowess are on constant display here. Not coincidentally, "Royale" is also blessed with a charismatic and intelli­gent (two traits that have been in short supply with recent 007 damsels) Bond girl in Vesper Lynd (Eva Green), an imposing villain with Le Chiffre (Mads Mikkelsen) and the strongest plot since Pierce Brosnan's first outing. 
With all these elements working in unison, "Casino Royale" will be remembered as the best action film of 2006, easily outstripping the vacuous (but entertaining) "Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest" and the dull (but heartfelt) "Superman Returns." 
Sadly, "Royale" is the Iatest in a series of high-profile releases with sparse special features for truly mem­orable movies. Martin Scorsese's "The Departed" and Christopher Nolan's "The Prestige" both offered average DVDs in their recent releases. Although it's nice to revisit these films so soon after their theatrical debut ­supported by strong word of mouth and great critical and popular acclaim, "Casino Royale" lingered in theaters until late December -the DVD debut of "Royale" is a disappointing one. 
It comes on a two-disc set labeled as a "special edition," but there's very lit­tle to celebrate with this release. The first disc houses the movie and little else. Fortunately, the DVD sports a sharp, vivid video transfer and a booming soundtrack to complement the many impressive set pieces .in the film. 
But while Campbell and Bond pro­ducer Michael G. Wilson recorded a stellar, always entertaining commen­tary track for "GoldenEye," they saw no need -or weren't allowed -to reprise their efforts here. Given the wealth of material to talk about with this film, it's a shame that Sony Pictures didn't seek out another com­mentary from the pair. 
The second disc is not much better, offering only four bonus features that add up to 90 minutes of footage. Of the three documentaries, "Becoming Bond" is the most interesting one. The 26-minute feature has a misleading title as this feature covers more ground than just the selection of Craig for the role. It's an entertaining glimpse into the project's evolution but feels much shorter than its nearly half­hour running time. 
The strongest detriment to this "Royale" DVD is that it falls far short of the exhaustive releases that the rest of Craig's counterparts have received. Even "Die Another Day," the disastrous 2002 Brosnan film, has hours of mate­rial on its second disc, perhaps unde­servingly. 
Sony Pictures recently reissued all 20 former Bond films on DVD under the banner of "Ultimate Editions." These comprehensive and handsomely packaged releases have added luster to an already impressive Bond legacy that stretches from Connery to Craig. 
Craig himself did his part with "Royale," which is easily the finest Bond film in years, perhaps even decades, largely due to his efforts. After acquiring MGM -the company that nourished 007 all these years ­it's a shame that Sony hasn't honored Craig and "Royale" with the lavish treatment it so richly deserves. 
Brian: "Casino Hoyale" was one of the biggest hits of 2006, both critically and commercially. It revitalized the Bond franchise and brought a new face to the character in the form of Daniel Craig, whose inspired turn promises to push the series in the right direction. Arriving on DVD in a two-disc special edition, "Casino Hoyale" will surely be a hit on home video, though the set itself leaves much to be desired. 
The film follows Bond, a newly mint­ed 00-agent, who is assigned to com­pete in a high stakes poker game against the French agent Le Chiffre who is funding terrorists. Along the way, he is introduced to Vesper Lynd , an accountant who introduces herself as "the money." 
Appropriately enough, "Casino Hoyale" is based on the first Bond novel, written by British author Ian Fleming. It adheres more closely to its source material in both tone and char­acterization than any Bond film since "From Hussia With Love," which is a welcome development. Bond is still suave and charismatic, but Craig inflects the character with an edginess and aloofness that suggests deep-root­ed psychological problems -these problems manifest themselves in the form of violence, to which Bond seems to take a rather casual approach. 
A lot of the trademarks of the fran­chise -Q, Moneypenny, etc. -are MIA, but they aren't really missed all that much. Craig has such command­ing presence as Bond that he controls the film without needing much in the way of support. The support he does get, however, is quite good, especially from the always-game Judi Dench, who reprises her role as M, Bond's superior. 
Bond films have a tendency to over­stay their welcome, with bloated, excessive running times and an action sequence or two too many. A previous Observer review of the theatrical release noted that "Casino Hoyale" is also too long. But that comment should be rescinded. While the film is indeed quite long (144 minutes), it's also extremely engaging even in its quietest moments, and the pacing rarely flags. 
"Casino Hoyale" comes to DVD in a widescreen two-disc special edition. There is also a fullscreen edition, which is essentially worthless, since the film makes full use of its long 
MATT HUDSON/Observer Graphic 


aspect ratio. The picture quality is quite good, with deep and accurate colors. The sound comes in a 5.1 Dolby Digital mix, which is full and immer­sive -this is a film that has a com­plex sound mix, and the audio comes through quite nicely. 
The special features are sparse ­there are three documentaries, only two of which are directly related to "Casino Hoyale." The first is a 26­minute look at the casting of Daniel Craig as Bond, which compares the actor to previous incarnations. The second is a 23-minute feature on the stunts and how they were performed. Finally, there's a 50-minute documen­tary on the Bond girls that has previ­ously aired on AMC. 
It's unfortunate that "Casino Royale" didn't get a classier release-the two­disc edition feels pretty standard, with none of the typical bells and whistles often associated with a big-time release. It's likely that a better release is somewhere down the road. perhaps when the next Bond film comes out. 
Still, it's difficult not to recommend "Casino Royale" on DVD. simply because it's such a great movie. As a revitalizing next step in the Bond evo­lution, it stands as one of the great films in the franchise -no small feat considering the series' longevity. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu and Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of movieweb.com Bond comforts Vesper Lynd (Eva Green) after the pair survives a brutal attack from Ugandan warlords in the last Bond flick, "Casino Royale." 


NSIDER 
AJ_HE 

Tuesday, March 20, 2007 UtiSERVER Notre Dame 2, Michigan 1 
Jackson's five 


Irish left wing Michael Bartlett looks over his shoulder at three Michigan defenders during a Notre Dame power play in the first period of the CCHA championship game Saturday night at Joe Louis Arena. The Irish defeated Michigan 2-1 in thrilling fashion, despite going 0-for-6 on power play attempts. 
Michigan club, a chance at their 0 lead by scoring with only five came the closest to capitalizing the Wolverines 15-7 as their By DAN MURPHY seventh CCHA title. seconds remaining in the open­on these chances when he rang a physical play began to wear Sports Writer With just under 10 minutes ing stanza. After two initial saves shot off the post five minutes into down the faster Michigan club. 
remaining in the game, sopho­by Brown, the puck squirted out the game. Defenseman Jack Notre Dame's superior condition­
DETROIT -It was a great more left wing Garrett Regan to the high slot where left wing Johnson also struck iron midway ing and discipline continued to night for the Irish this St. skated over the blue line and Kevin Porter buried a wrist shot through the third on another show itself in the third period. Patrick's Day when Notre Dame fired a shot at the net. Sauer was in the top corner. short-handed rush for Michigan. "Throughout the year we've won its first ever CCHA confer­able to make the initial save, but "Goals are precious in a game "I like to think of the posts as given up goals and been down, ence championship with a 2-1 fumbled with the rebound when like this," Michigan coach Red an extension of my equipment, but it seems like every time we victory over Michigan in a hostile he tried to sweep it into the far Berenson said. "It was a game hopefully they don't really have come back," Condra said. "[Irish Joe Louis Arena. corner. Paige seized the opportu­that took different directions, and anything else to shoot at" Brown coach Jeff Jackson] keeps us 
"It's been a long time coming, nity and slapped the loose puck I thought we had some really said. calm on the bench, you can't get and it's something we've talked past him to give the Irish the win. good chances in the first period, The near miss brought all too high or too low." about since the time we came to "It means a lot, but it means a even though we were killing off 16,481 fans to their feet as most Jackson's team controlled the Notre Dame," Irish center Jason lot more to see our team win," penalties." thought the Wolverines had pace of the game throughout the Paige said. "It's just special to be Paige said. "One thing we did Porter and crew threatened reclaimed the lead with remainder of the contest until the a part of that." tonight in order to win was play several times throughout the Johnson's blast. final Michigan spurt. 
Senior goaltender Dave Brown as a team." period -they outshot the Irish Notre Dame tied the score at 1-The victory was Jackson's fifth made 31 saves, including several The Michigan native played 11 to nine and produced many 1 with four minutes remaining in conference title in his eight years big stops in the final two min­after breaking his nose the night more scoring chances. the second period on Erik behind a CCHA bench. He won utes, en route to being named before in the semifinal matchup The majority of those chances Condra's 15th goal of the year. the first four while coaching Lake the tournament's MVP. The against Lake Superior State. came for the Wolverines while on Freshman Kevin Deeth started Superior State in the early '90s. Michigan goal was only the third The Wolverines threatened late the penalty kill. The Irish power­the play behind the net and shov­The two weekend victories that Brown allowed in four play­in the game when Notre Dame play unit was swarmed by the eled a pass into the slot. The brought Jackson's CCHA career off games. defenseman Tom Sawatske was aggressive, speedy Michigan for­puck redirected off Michigan playoff record to an unprece­
Wolverines netminder Billy called for cross-checking, but the wards at the blue line. They cre­center T.J. Hensick's skate to dented 28-4, two of those losses Sauer also played outstanding No. 1 defense in the country was ated turnovers which quickly Condra, who was waiting in front coming in previous title matches. between the pipes, with 35 saves, able to make yet another stand to became odd-man rushes on the of the half-empty net. but one miscue in the final period secure the comeback. other end. The Irish dominated most of Contact Dan Murphy at cost him, and the rest of the Michigan got out to the early 1-Senior forward David Rohlfs the second period, outshooting dmurphy6@nd.edu 
player of the game 
Dave Brown 

The Irish goalie continued to show why he is a Hobey Baker candidate by shutting down the Wolverines all game long. 
stat of the game 
31 
Saves made by Dave Brown, including five in the final two min­utes ofthe game to secure a victory for the Irish. 
play of the game 
Jason Paige's game-winning goal 
Broken nose and all, Paige grabbed a Garrett Regan rebound and wrapped it around Michigan's Billy Sauer for the eventual clincher. 

quote of the game 
"It's been a long time coming, and it's something we've talked about since the time we came to Notre Dame." 
Jason Paige Irish center 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, March 20, 2007 
report card 

Brown gives back to his blueliners 
8+ 
Offense: Two goals is a bit below par for the Irish forwards who are averag­ing 3.5 per game. However, they battled 
back and got the job done against a 
red-hot Billy Sauer. Defense: Michigan is one of the most
A-explosive offenses in the nation, and they are bound to get their chances. The Irish did a good job of contain­ing the speedy Wolverines. 
Goaltending: Dave Brown bailed the 
A 
Irish out many times during the con­
test with 31 huge saves and earned a 
perfect grade with an MVP perform­ance Saturday. 
C-
Power play: Notre Dame was 0-for-6 on the night and also gave up multiple short-handed rushes. Two shots off the 
posts on these chances saved this grade from being much lower. 
A-
Penalty Kill: A lack of a power play was made up by the consistently stingy penalty killers, who kept Michigan 
from scoring on all five attempts ­including one in the last two minutes of the game. 
Coaching: Saturday night was the offi­A cial stamp of Jackson's two-year ren­ovation of the Irish hockey program, turning a doormat into a national contender. 
3.38 
overall: A modest grade for a conference championship, but it passes against possibly the most offensively talented teams in the country -a great accomplishment. 
Game statistics 
!-~.101\"" l
.•,,, 
player goals assists PIM shots +1­
Jack Johnson 0 1 6 4 +1 Chris Summers 0 0 0 2 0 Steve Kampfer 0 0 2 1 -1 Matt Hunwick 0 0 2 0 +1 T.J. Hensick 0 1 2 3 0 Jason Dest 0 0 0 0 -2 Andrew Cogliano 0 0 0 0 0 Travis TurnbUll 0 0 0 0 -1 Kevin Porter 1 0 2 4 0 Brian Lebler 0 0 0 3 0 Anthony Ciraulo 0 0 0 0 0 David Rohlfs 0 0 0 5 0 Mark Mitera 0 0 0 2 -1 TIIll Miller 0 0 0 2 -1 Brandon Naurato 0 0 0 1 -1 Chad Kolarik 0 0 0 5 0 T!IllCook 0 0 0 0 0 Danny Fardig 0 0 0 0 0 

'  TOTALS  1  2  14  32  -5  
J1t  
player  goals  assists  PIM  shots  +1­ 
Kyle Lawson Brett Blatchford Noah Babin Josh Sciba Ryan Thang Justin White Erik Condra Brock Sheahan Evan Rankin Wes O'Neill Tom Sawatske Kevin Deeth Jason Paige Mark Van Guilder Clrristian Hanson T.J. Jindra Michael Bartlett Garrett Regan  0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0  0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1  0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 2 0 2 0 0 0 0 4 0 0  1 0 1 0 2 0 5 1 2 2 0 3 4 2 4 2 1 7  0 +1 0 0 +1 0 +1 -1 +1 +1 +1 +1 +1 -1 -1 0 0 0  

TOTALS 2 4 12 37 +5 


AP Senior defenseman Wes O'Neill and Michigan center Andrew Cogliano battle over a loose puck in front of the Wolverines net during Saturday night's championship in Joe Louis Arena, which the Irish won 2-1. 
DETROIT -Notre Dame goal­tender Dave Brown lifted the Mason Cup high over his head and then raised his eyes toward the 
rafters of Joe Louis Arena to give the league championship trophy a kiss. The rest of the Irish clamored to get a closer look and choked back vic­

tory sobs in an Kyle Cassily 
arena that has seen countless Sports Writer hockey legends weep at the sight of a silver bowl. 
Only minutes before, Notre Dame had won its first-ever CCI-lA cham­pionship with a 2-1 game-for-the­ages victory over Michigan and cel­ebrated by engulfing Brown -and his net -with a human tsunami that sent players, padding and pipes crashing into the boards. Helmets, glove and sticks burst so high out of the tidal wave that they might have brushed the Jumbotron sitting high above the ice in Hockeytown (right wing Evan Rankin still can't find one of his gloves). And in the middle of it all, crushed under a mob of Notre Dame sweaters, huddled a goalie who had just played his heart out in the biggest game of his life. 
Irish coach Jeff Jackson said after the game that Brown is as good a goaltender as he has ever coached -telling words from a man with two national and five league cham­pionships and a tendency to go light on the praise. 
The Wolverines and their bullet­train fast offense bombarded Brown with 14 shots in the third period alone, which the senior gloved, blocked or smothered as part of his 31 saves in the game. And the Maize and Blue express charged down the tracks with no greater force than in the final two minutes of the game. 
Irish defenseman Tom Sawatske was whistled for a cross-check with 
1:53 remaining and the Wolverines threw out CCI-lA points leader T.J. Hensick's line out onto the ice along with the All-conference first-team defensive tandem of Jack Johnson and Matt Hunwick. All five Michigan players lined up for the power play were NHL draft picks. The Irish don't have five picks on their entire roster. 
Michigan left wing Kevin Porter broke through the Irish penalty kill from the start and backhanded a shot on Brown that the goalie squeezed between his pads, but not before he had to check behind him to see if the puck squeaked through. The Irish kill unit, backed by defensemen Wes O'Neill and Noah Babin, dumped the puck away from Brown and out of the zone several times as the Michigan­dominated crowd of over 16,000 drowned out the Joe. 
But each time the Irish cleared the blue line, Hensick bore back into their zone and zeroed in on Brown. With 34 seconds left, Michigan worked the puck in front of Brown's crease, where -down in his butterfly stance -he scram­bled to make several saves from point-blank range. Johnson took one last whack at the loose puck, but Brown smothered it, and the Irish got to take their own whacks at him after the buzzer sounded seconds later. 
Not only in those helter skelter final minutes, but in a majority of the game, Notre Dame was 

The senior center's 
forced for one of the with two midnight­few times this season mug looked like a black eyes and a red to throw much of the bad Impressionist gash above the bridge burden on Brown, of his nose, but -like
painting for the
expecting him to Brown and the rest of emerge from the pile championship, with the Irish -he came up with puck in glove. two midnight-black big in arguably the And he did it again most important Notre
eyes and a red gash 
and again. Dame hockey game in The senior 1-Iobey above the bridge of the program's history Baker finalist entered his nose. -for the time being. 
role reversal of sorts for a Notre Dame defensive unit that allowed only 22.8 shots per game this sea­son. In comparison, another top goalie in the country -New Hampshire's Kevin Regan -faces 
32.7 shots per game from the oppo­sition. 
Standing on his head, Brown allowed the Irish offense time to pound away at Michigan goalie Billy Sauer, who looked nothing like the goaltender that surrendered 11 goals to Notre Dame in two regular season games. 
And then nine minutes into the third period, Irish center Jason Paige capitalized on Sauer's only mistake when the goalie mishan­dled the puck in front of his own net right onto Paige's stick for the eventual game-winner. The goal was the capper to an Iron Man weekend for the alternate captain. 
Paige broke his nose in the first period against Lake Superior State when his loose helmet cage was crushed back into his face -and was back in the game by the third period. The senior center's mug 
looked like a bad Impressionist painting for the championship, 
into showdown after showdown with Hensick and the rest of the quick Michigan forwards, who wheeled past Irish defensemen that were left looking at maize-col­ored numbers. 
Wolverines left wing Chris Summers and Hensick each had a small breakaway in the first period when they burst around the defense on odd-man rushes, but Brown played his angles well and the scoring chances were quickly stuffed. Brown even got a little luck of the Irish -in a game played on St. Patrick's Day -when Johnson dinged a slap shot off the right post six minutes into the third period in a 1-1 tie. 
To be bailed out by Brown was a 
Brown's name has 
been synonymous with 

Notre Dame hockey this season behind his stellar statis­tics and fluid style, but in reality, there has practically been a new hero each game for the Irish. 
It was fitting that Brown elevated his game in the league champi­onship to take another turn in the spotlight, and ironic that after the best game of his collegiate career, the masked face of Irish hockey couldn't be seen beneath a pile of champion Blue and Gold. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassi­ly@nd.edu 
Tuesday, March 20, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Coach downs old team to reach championship 
Defensemen O'Neill, Sheahan both score goals while shutting out Lake Superior State in semifinals 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
DETROIT -Notre Dame advanced to the CCHA champi­onship with a 3-0 shutout of Lake Superior State -the team with which Irish coach Jeff Jackson first established his coaching credentials -in the league semifinals Friday at Joe Louis Arena. 
''I'm awful proud of the fact [Lake Superior State] made it here again. I'll always feel that way," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "Because [Lake Superior State] is part of my heritage ­my hockey heritage." 
The No. 1 and top-seeded Irish (30-6-3) moved on to their second-ever league champi­onship after they defeated eighth-seeded Lake Superior State (21-18-3) with a little offense from the defense. 
The Irish got a goal apiece from defensemen Wes O'Neill and Brock Sheahan -and an empty netter from center Christian Hanson -to defeat a Lakers team that was a week removed from a two-game upset of third-seeded Miami in the second round. Notre Dame's defense was forced to beat Lake Superior State goalie Jeff Jakaitis (26 saves) from the point, after the Irish offense was neutralized on every scoring chance deep in the Lakers' zone. 
"We're playing teams that keep a lot of people back, and if you don't have your defense­men activate, you're not going to score," Jackson said. "Everybody has got four guys back in the neutral zone, five guys back. So if your defense don't activate, you're not scor­ing." 
On the other end of the ice, the Irish defense limited Lake Superior State to 17 shots, helping Notre Dame goalie Dave Brown earn his sixth shutout of the year, the 12th of his career-both Notre Dame records -and his first in the playoffs. 
Despite facing only nine shots at the end of two periods, Brown was not cold in net when Lake Superior State chal­lenged him with eight third­period shots. The senior Hobey Baker candidate made three consecutive saves with 11 min­utes remaining in the game and then smothered a break­away from Lakers left wing Dan Eves to stave off the last Lakers' attacks and preserve the lead. 
"David Brown has had one of the best seasons in the coun­try," Jakaitis said. "He's one of the best in the country, the top player in our league." 
Irish defenseman Wes O'Neill extended his playoff scoring streak with his goal at 9:46 of the first period on the power play to give Notre Dame the 1­0 lead. O'Neill beat Jakaitis high with a wrist shot from the low left point for his third goal of the season -one in each of this year's three playoff games. The Irish worked the puck around on the man advantage to left wing Mark Van Guilder inside the circle, who then backhanded the puck up to O'Neill for the shot. 
"The main difference is just shooting the puck," O'Neill said of his hot stick. "Coach has been on me all year to shoot, shoot, shoot and finally the last couple games, I've been getting a couple more chances than I normally do." 
Prior to O'Neill's goal, Jakaitis had stopped 88 of 90 shots faced, dating back to the first game of Lake Superior State's series against Miami. He made 81 total saves and allowed two goals in the Lakers two-game sweep of the RedHawks, including 44 stops in Lake Superior State's 2-1 series-clinching win Saturday. 


"When you are going up against a good goaltender like Jakaitis, you have to make sure you shut them down, because you may only win one to noth­ing," Jackson said. "And that is just about what it was." 
The Irish out-muscled a smaller Lake Superior State team and cordoned off the slot in their own zone, forcing the Lakers to make low-percentage shots from the outside. 
Notre Dame added to 
O'Neill's goal when Irish defenseman Brock Sheahan scored his third goal of the year and the second of the playoffs with a one-timer past Jakaitis at 8:46 of the second period for the 2-0 lead. Sheahan one-timed the shot low to Jakaitis' blocker side from the left point after Condra passed the puck out of a serum in the left corner to the top of the Lakers' zone. 
"I couldn't even see where Jakaitis was because of the traffic in front of the net," Sheahan said of his one-timer. "I was trying to shoot blocker side, and it happened to hit that guy off his leg and go blocker side." 
The Lakers pulled Jakaitis 

with three minutes remaining in the game and Hanson potted a shot into the empty net at 
17:33 to pad the Notre Dame lead at 3-0 and earn his sixth goal of the season. 
"[The Irish] have a lot of good things going for them right now, and it's not going to slow down," Lakers coach Jim Roque said. "Jeff [Jackson] is going to keep that thing rolling." 
Notre Dame reached its first CCHA final in 1982 after it defeated Bowling Green 8-5 in the semis, before falling to Michigan State in the champi­onship. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassity@nd.edu 
Jackson wins second CCHA coach of the year award 
Goaltender Dave Brown takes home player of the year honors, becomes Hobey Baker finalist on same night 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
DETROIT -Irish goalie Dave Brown and coach Jeff Jackson were named CCHA player and coach of the year at the league awards show Thursday night at Lake Superior State, and the first Jackson took to the stage and the Fox Theater in Detroit on the CCHA player of the year award began his acceptance speech same day Brown was named as for an Irish player in school histo­with an update of the Michigan one of 10 finalists for the Hobey ry. State-Marquette basketball game Baker Award. The Hobey Baker Committee being played at the same time as 
It was the second coach of the selected Brown to the group of 10 the show -an acknowledgement year award for Jackson, who players under consideration for of his school days spent in East earned the honor in 1991 with the highest trophy college hockey Lansing. He then thanked his 
has to offer. It will be awarded entire coaching and support staff April 6 at the Frozen Four in St. before recalling a conversation Louis. A selection committee he had with his "best friend," made up of media, National associate head coach Paul Pooley, Hockey League right after he took scouts and college the Irish job in May hockey coaches "Coach ofthe year of2005. will decide the is nothing more Pooley had asked three finalists him a simple ques­
than team ofthe
March 28 for the tion -could the award show at the year, in my two of them win at Scottrade Center. opinion. Notre Dame? 
Jackson and Jackson confidently Brown accepted responded, that yes,
Jeff Jackson 
the league honors with the quality of back-to-hack to Irish coach the Notre Dame 


close out an awards show that saw Irish freshman Ryan Thang miss out on rookie of the year to Western Michigan's Mark Letestu and defenseman Brock Sheahan lose out on best defensive defenseman to Michigan's Matt Hunwick. Brown was honored for his All-conference first-team selection along with three other Michigan players in the midst of a show that was dominated by Michigan highlight videos and honorifics. 
student-athlete, 
they could take the program to the top. He then put the award in perspective with the player's accomplishments, before he called college hockey "the best place to be." 
"The infusion of young players that had tremendous seasons, and, as I said, one of the best coaching staffs in the country, gave us the opportunity to build a special season," Jackson said in his speech. "And coach of the year is nothing more than team of the year, in my opinion." 

After the envelope for player of the year was opened and Brown's name was called, a brief highlight video of Brown's season prefaced his speech. Brown then stepped to the podi­um and pulled a prepared speech from his tuxedo jacket. 
"I would not be here without the great support of my team­mates, and I would like to rec­ognize the outstanding dedica­tion, commitment and play which all started in the early morning hours of this past June," Brown said. "I would like to personally thank Coach Jackson, who worked so closely with me throughout the past two years and spent countless hours dissecting the craft of goaltending by my side." 
Irish freshmen Kevin Deeth, Kyle Lawson and Thang were given trophies for their selection to the league All-rookie team, and Brown was also named goaltender of the year. Prior to Brown's player of the year selection, only one Irish player had ever been named best in a league in school history, when forward Brian Walsh was named the WCHA's most valu­able player in 1977. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassity@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, March 20, 2007 

Irish offense too much for Nanooks in sweep 
wing Ryan Thang (one goal, "We just wanted to come in

ND scores 10 goals in 
two assists) all contributed to and get the forecheck going, 2 games to advance to the Irish scoreboard. and we were lucky to get a The Irish defense couple of bounces there,"
semifinals in Detroit stonewalled the Nanooks Regan said. "We were fortu­offense like they have done to nate to get a couple goals the opposition all season, but early."
By KYLE CASSILY against Alaska they came alive The Irish scored once in the 
Sporrs Writer 
offensively as well. Defensemen second period at 16:14 for the Wes O'Neill, Brock Sheahan 6-0 lead when Lawson broke Notre Dame achieved its pre­and Kyle Lawson each scored down the right side of the ice season goal of reaching Joe at least once on Alaska goalies and beat Johnson high on his Louis Arena and avenged an Wylie Rogers and Chad glove side -yet another goal opening round loss in last Johnson in the series. that began with a Condra pass. year's playoffs to Alaska with a "It's something we've kind of "There was a lot of talk," two-game sweep March 9-10 at waited for a lot over the year," Condra said of on-ice commu­the Joyce Center. Irish coach Jeff Jackson said of nication between the Irish. 
The No. 1 Irish advanced to the offensive defensemen. "That's how I found guys the CCHA semifinals after 7-1 "These guys are the backbone open." and 3-1 wins over Alaska in the of our team, them and [goalie Irish left wing Mark Van second round of the playoffs, Dave] Brown. They make the Guilder gave Notre Dame the during which Notre Dame difference." 7-0 lead with his power-play never trailed, was not out-shot Brown padded his Hobey goal 58 seconds into the third and dominated man-advantage Baker stats with 37 saves in period. Notre Dame worked the and man-down situations. two games and surrendered puck around the Nanooks zone 
"[Notre Dame] was playing at one even-strength goal and one several times before center a hundred miles per hour, and power play goal. Justin White found Van Guilder we were at fifty," Alaska coach alone on the far post for a Tavis MacMillan said. "It's Notre Dame 7, Alaska 1 wide-open goal. tough to play against a team The Irish scored five goals in The Irish power play was 2­going twice as fast as you." the opening period to put the for-10 in the first game (4-for-
The Irish ensured that the Nanooks away before the game 16 on the series), while the ghosts of last season would not began. penalty kill squashed five resurface when the Nanooks O'Neill scored the first goal of Alaska man-advantages in the again lumbered into the Joyce the game -and his first of the first matchup and killed 10-of-Center for a playoff series, season -at 3:06 into the first 11 penalties for the series. scoring five unanswered goals period. O'Neill received a pass Alaska scored its only goal of in the opening period of the in the left side of the high slot the game to make it 7-1 at the the open left side of the net the net. first game. From there, Alaska from Condra and beat Alaska 4:41 mark of the third period. after Rogers deflected a Deeth "We were able to create more managed to close the Irish lead goalie Rogers over his blocker Nanooks defenseman Nathan shot right onto his stick in the pressure and not allow them to to one goal only one more time, for the 1-0 lead. Fornataro beat Brown high low slot at 17:19. O'Neill then come through the neutral zone when the Nanooks made it a 2-"Everybody joked with me with a slap shot from the point deflected a slap shot from so much," MacMillan said. 1 game in the second period of [and] said, 'as soon as the play­through traffic. White on the point for his sec­The Irish got an insurance the second game. offs start you 'II start scoring ond goal of the year and the goal from Deeth at 14:47 in the 
Irish right wing Erik Condra them'," O'Neill said. Notre Dame 3, Alaska 1 series. second period to put the game continued to create scoring The Irish beat Rogers three Alaska came out faster and "In the last month, [O'Neill] at 3-1. Defenseman Tom chances and set up open team­more times -on two goals better able to withstand Notre has been dominant," Jackson Sawatske ripped a high shot mates for goals -his hallmark from Regan and one from Dame's attack in the second said. "He's been the player that from the point that Deeth in two seasons at Notre Dame Sheahan -for the 4-0 lead game, but two late first-period I think I have always expected tipped out of the air toward the -with five assists in two before the Nanooks goalie was goals were enough to send the of him." ice and past Rogers. games. pulled from the game and Irish to Detroit. Alaska cut the game to 2-1 at Both teams settled down to a 
The scoring was spread even­replaced with Johnson at the Thang and O'Neill connected the 10:20 mark of the second paced, physical contest for the ly throughout the rest of the 14:25 mark. on goals 1:23 apart in the last period with a goal from center remaining period before the Irish roster. Left wing Garrett Paige then deflected a shot three minutes of the first peri­Adam Naglich on the power buzzer sounded and the Irish Regan (two goals, one assist), past Johnson only a minute od to give Notre Dame the 2-0 play. Brown made the save on clinched a trip to Detroit. center Jason Paige (one goal, later to welcome the new lead in a physical game played Naglich's wrist shot, but the one assist), center Kevin Deeth Alaska goalie to the Irish scor­on slow ice. puck jolted loose from his pads Contact Kyle Cassity at (one goal, two assists) and left ing onslaught and a 5-0 deficit. Thang buried the puck into and bounded into the back of kcassily@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 13 
Tuesday, March 20, 2007 
DVD REVIEW 
'Robin Hood' fails to state case for animation excellance 
By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Editor 
As the first Disney animated feature to enter production after Walt Disney's 1966 death, "Robin Hood" illustrates perhaps better than any other film where the Disney studio faltered in the wake of its namesake's passing. 
Looking back at the company's cartoon canon, it is rather remarkable to think that the loss of a single man could drain a legacy of magic from output collabo­rated on by hundreds of individuals. But the fact that "Robin Hood" is being released 33 years since it was first in theaters indicates that even if this 1973 feature can't claim the massive follow­ings of either Walt's cherished classics or the late '80s/early '90s Renaissance musicals, it still is appreciated enough to justify a second DVD release -in its "Most Wanted Edition." 
"Robin Hood" wasn't considered good enough by the studios to warrant one of the truly spectacular two-disc editions, and has instead been given only a single­disc upgrading. Although it is contained on just a singe disc, there are enough 

Sir Hiss), as well asRobin Hood 
the unforgettable Sheriff of Nottingham. Robin Hood and
Most Wanted Edition 
Little John don assorted disguises to Disney do their business as Sherwood Forest's redistributors of wealth. The scheming is depicted in a broad and comedic manner and it represents one 


special features to distinguish its earlier DVD release. Most notably it comes with a deleted alternate ending, as well as a 1933 Mickey Mouse cartoon. 
"Robin Hood" is an all-animal version of the much-adapted and well-known tale of a noble Englishman who robs from the rich to give to the poor. Robin Hood and Maid Marian are red foxes, Little John is a brown bear, Friar Tuck is a badger, Prince John is a lion, and so on. Though all the creatures are com­pletely anthropomorphized, this produc­tion is still one of Disney's few animated features that avoids human characters altogether. 
The minstrel rooster Allan-a-dale (who makes this one of the rare narrat­ed Disney animated features) introduces the cast of characters at the start in a melody known as "Whistle-Stop" (sped up, the tune gained exposure as the music behind The Hampster Dance). From here, the movie progresses in a very episodic fashion. Robin Hood and Little John (who is anything but little) are portrayed as a laid-back, well-mean­ing duo. Their opposition is supplied by unquestionably evil authority figures: the tyrant Prince John and his often tied-up 
henchman (the snake of several elements calculatedly thrown into the mix. Slapstick-fueled adventure derives from the central acts of accept­able robbery, as does some small-town drama. There is also a group of kid characters and a love story surrounding Maid Marian and Robin Hood. Individually, they all fall short of more inspired treatment seen in other Disney films. Together, the result is reasonably diverting, but mediocre and evidently disjointed. 
One of the major highlights of the film is Peter Ustinov's funny embodiment of the thumb-sucking comic villain Prince John. The character is not just goofy and quirky like your typical cartoon comedy's villain; he's genuinely funny enough to produce laughs in adults. While the antagonist's mannerisms are meant almost purely to amuse, "P.J" emerges as the movie's most defined character and he's just malicious enough to root against. 

Most of the other characterizations aren't up to quite the same quality. Robin Hood is sufficiently charming, Maid Marian is a suitable love interest and Sir Hiss is an entertaining sidekick. Beyond that, the ensemble cast operates perfunctorily, with several characters being most identified by what other Disney character shares the same voice actor. Likable though he may be, Little John is essentially Baloo all over again, as Phil Harris' character from "The Jungle Book," who is even closely physi­cally resembled here. 
Although not one of Disney's best, it is still most certainly considered a classic, and is enjoyable especially for fans that grew up loving the movie. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Silence' frightens not with horror but horrible dialogue 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Writer 
"Dead Silence" follows Jamie Ashen, who becomes a widower at the beginning of the film when his wife is mysteriously killed. Jamie is concerned about weird coincidences, which include the arrival of a puppet called Billy, the day of the mur­der and that Jamie's wife seemed to talk to him moments before he discovered her body, despite the fact that her tongue was cut out. 
Ignoring the assertion by Detective Jim Lipton (Donnie Wahlberg) that he's the prime suspect, Ashen returns to his hometown to try to search for answers, where he meets a predictably strange cast of characters -his father Edward (Bob Gunten), who has driven away almost every member of his family; his new stepmother Ella (Amber Valletta), who seems to be the only one capable of putting up with Edward; and undertaker Henry Walker (Michael Fairman), who seems to know the town's dark secret. 
Jamie learns the legend of Mary Shaw (Judith Roberts), a ventriloquist who was suspected of murdering a child who insulted the old woman's ventriloquism routine. The family of the child hunted down Shaw and killed her, cutting out her tongue in the process. Shaw was buried with her 101 puppets, but legend has it that her spirit returns to hunt down those who wronged her. 
"Dead Silence" borrows heavily from a plethora of other horror films, including a credit sequence straight from "Se7en." It also has an almost-willful affinity for cliches -characters enter dark crawl­spaces, go into creepy bedrooms after hearing strange noises and follow disem­bodied voices. Just how hard does "Dead Silence" work to get its scares? When a talking clown doll tells Jamie to come closer so it can tell him a secret, Jamie enthusiastically complies. 
Actually, the scariest thing about "Dead Silence" is the horrendous dia­logue, which sounds like D. Edward Wood Jr. wrote it on a bender. Co­authored by Wan and "Saw" scribe James Whannell, "Dead Silence" only has a few scenes of true dialogue, which are 
so cliche-ridden that 
they are laughable rather than scary. The performances don't do much to help

Dead Silence 
either. Few of the actors really distin­
Universal Studios guish themselves, especially Kwanten, who is largely forget­table in the lead role. In fact, the only one who has any charisma whatsoever is Donnie 



Wahlberg (the former New Kid on the Block, now better known as the less tal­ented and less handsome older brother of Mark) as the (cliche) tough-as-nails Detective -but even his best lines sound ad-Jibbed. (When Jamie jumps into his car, Jim reluctantly gives chasing, quip­ping, "I don't have a full tank of gas!"). 
Predictably, "Dead Silence" has a plot twist (what horror film doesn't these days?), though here it's unexpected and genuinely chilling, which is a good thing. The whole enterprise is kind of creepy, but in a B-movie type of way. It's hard to tell if the makers of "Dead Silence" took themselves seriously (though they did cast Donnie Wahlberg) because the film definitely has its scary moments and its atmospheric look is surprisingly effective. Wan is, in ways, a better filmmaker than might be expected, but the horrendous dialogue and plodding plot does him no service here. 

"Dead Silence" isn't likely to cause a big splash in the horror film world -in fact, it's already seemed to come and go without much in the way of fanfare ­and overall it's a pretty uninspired film. But there are worse ways to kill a couple of hours. It doesn't have an air of self­importance, and it trades gore for atmos­phere, which is a welcome change of pace in modern horror. But it's a shame that those ingredients don't elevate "Dead Silence" from anything but a pre­dictable B-film. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
r 
I 
i page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 20, 2007 
' 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Laxers go 2-1 over break 

No. 6 Irish lose to No. 11 Syracuse after falling behind early 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
No. 6 Notre Dame (5-2) won two crucial away matches over spring break but dropped its Big East opener Sunday against No. 11 Syracuse (4-3) 16-13. 
The Irish played from behind most of the game Sunday, as the Orange took a 4-0 lead early in the first half. Senior Meghan Murphy helped Notre Dame back into the game, scor­ing twice on a run that cut the deficit to 5-4. Sophomore Jillian Byers tied the match at six with two goals, but Syracuse coun­tered to take a 7-6 lead into halftime. 
The game remained close in a back and forth second half with the game tied at 13 and just over 10 minutes remaining. But the Irish were shut out down the stretch while the Orange rallied off three straight goals for the win. 
"We knew it would be a very competitive game," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "It was a must-win game for them and they came through at the fin-
junior Bridget Looney with 
''The Yale game was
four. The Orange out­just a complete team 
shot the Irish effort, and our best 
37-24 on the 
defensive game 
afternoon. 
Coyne said all season." that the Irish will use the loss 
Tracy Coyne
to help 
Irish coach
improve. "This game 
·Erin Goodman 
had a strong per­
formance in goal, 
collecting 14 
saves in the 9-7 
Notre Dame win. 
The Irish led 3­
2 after a low­
scoring first half, 
and the game 
remained close 
until the finish. 
Goodman's 11 
MEN'S GOLF 
Clubbers finish second in California 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
Led by senior Cole Isban and freshman Doug Fortner, the Irish turned in a runner-up fin­ish in the Triumph at Pauma Valley in Pauma Valley, Calif., before taking sixth place at the Border Olympics in Laredo, Tex., later in the week. 
Fortner fmished fourth over­all with a one-under par 212 at the Triumph. He then shot an eight-over par 224 at the Border Olympics. 
"Doug played very well and upped his game a little," said Isban, a co-captain. "That's what we've been looking for from him." 
Isban also turned in two 
impressive performances, recording finishes of eighth and fifth overall. At the Border Olympics, his seven-under par 209 tied a 54-hole Notre Dame record. But Isban was disap­pointed with the overall Irish showing in Laredo. The Irish led midway through the second round before closing out poorly to end with the sixth-place mark. 
"It's not exactly what we wanted," he said. "We were playing very well, leading the field, then we fell apart a lit­tle." 
Before the week, Isban had said the Irish had an opportu­nity to win one of the tourna­ments over spring break. He is not satisfied with his team's performance. 
"We felt alright about it but, all in all, it was nothing excep­tional," he said. 
The Irish did, however, post other exceptional individual performances. Senior co-cap­tain Adam Gifford had a career-best showing at the Triumph, finishing in fifth at even-par 213. Sophomore Josh Sandman had his best tourna­ment of the spring season at the Border Olympics, tying for 21st place with an even-par 216. 
The Irish next return to the links for the Administaff Augusta State Invitational at Champions Retreat Golf Club in Evans, Ga., March 30-Aprill. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
TRACK 

Two Irish runners earn All-An1erica honors 
you or I going to the cafeteria,"
By BILL BRINK 

Piane said. "He said he was Sports Writer 
feeling a lot better on Saturday, but you could see by the 500­
Two of the six Irish runners meter mark he was struggling at the NCAA Indoor a little bit." Championships March 9 and 10 Both runners have worked returned as All-Americans. hard to achieve the level of 
Senior 800-meter runner success they've enjoyed, but 
ish." 
The Irish were led by junior Caitlin McKinney, who tallied four goals and two assists in the losing effort. Murphy and Byers also contributed strong performances with three goals each. 
Syracuse received huge offen­sive contributions from senior Ashley Pike with five goals and three goals and three assists. With the eight points on the game, Byers became the fastest Notre Dame player to reach the 100-point mark for her career, breaking the record set last year by McKinney. 
The second game of the break let the Irish enjoy spring break in Florida before a game against No. 18 Yale. Sophomore 
Thomas Chamney earned his third All-America 

"There was no way
recognition, plac­

ing eighth in the he couldn't be an finals with a time All-American" of 1:50.74 and scoring the lone 
Joe Piane
Irish point of the meet in Irish coach, Fayetteville, Ark. on junior Jake Watson Junior miler Jake Watson placed they got there in different ways. 
"Chamney's worked hard from the minute he stepped on campus," Piane said. "Watson had a pretty good freshman year, a good half of sophomore year and then theexposed things we can improve on and will fine-tune before our next few games," she said. 
In Notre Dame's first game of the break, the Irish routed Canisius 18-8 on the road. After the Griffins came out to a sur­prising start, the Irish coun­tered with a nine-goal spurt that put the game out of reach. 
Byers and McKinney, both pre-season All-league selec­tions, continued their hot starts in Buffalo. Byers scored six goals and added two assists, and McKinney contributed second-half saves were key in the win. McKinney led the way once again, this time with three goals and an assist. 
"The Yale game was just a complete team effort, and our best defensive game all sea­son," Coyne said. 
Next up for the Irish is a home match against Ohio State on Wednesday. The Buckeyes are 3-1 after an 8-4 win over Davidson on Sunday. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

lOth in the finals with a time of light just went on." 4:03.97, garnering his first All­Piane thought the spark America honor. could have come from a good 
"He's thrilled," Notre Dame performance during Watson's coach Joe Piane said of sophomore year. Watson. "To be one of the top "Maybe he just had one good ten in the country is pretty race and then thought, 'If I incredible." work pretty hard, I could be a 
The All-America recognition great one,"' he said. goes to the top eight finishers The Irish distance medley as well as the top eight U.S. cit­relay fell just short of earning izens. Although Watson fin­All-America status along with ished 1Oth, he was the eighth Chamney and Watson. The American runner to finish. team, composed of junior 
"We knew it driving over that Adam Currie, senior Ryan if he finished the race he'd be Postel, junior John Cavanaugh an All-and senior Todd American," Piane Ptacek, finished said. "In the final "Chamney's worked ninth with a there were 11 hard since the time of9:42.13 guys, three of -just 0.32 sec­
minute he stepped 
whom were for­onds behind eigners. There on campus. Texas, which was no way he finished eighth. couldn't be an Joe Piane Ptacek moved All-American." from the 1,200­
Irish coach
When he earned the honor, Watson joined his older brother Luke, who was a six­time All-American at Notre Dame from 1999 to 2002. This is the first time in Notre Dame's 117-year track and field history that two siblings have each received All-America honors. 
Chamney's road to All­America status was a tough one -he battled sickness before and during the meet. 
"We think it was the flu," Piane said. "He was definitely, definitely sick. He ran the trials and was on all fours after­wards." 
Chamney ran the 800 in 1:49 -an unusual time for him. 
"For [Chamney], 1:49 is like 
meter segment 

to the mile seg­ment to replace Watson, and Currie took Ptacek's place in the 1,200-meter segment. 
"I wanted to give Watson an opportunity to run totally fresh in the mile," Piane said. "He would have had to run prelims in the mile and then following that was the distance medley. I don't think we lost anything by putting Currie on the front. We may have lost a little bit put­ting Todd on the back. He's a 
4:04 miler, he ran a 4:05. I can't complain, he did a really good job. We just missed by 18 inches getting four more All­Americans." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

SUMMERCAMPPOSmON& Now leasing for 2007/8. Great Puck: houses close to campus. Sweet Athenia maid in woods in WANTED Make a difference in the life of a FoR SALE Anlanproperties@comcast.net TICKETS love w/disdainful youth. 
child! Enchant him. IMMEDIATE OPENINGS. Oakhill condo-3-4 bdm,3 full OFF CAMPUS HOUSING. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Ob. Summer therapy camp for children baths,21evels,large deck. 312-933­$15.50 base-appt. with physical disabilities. 7234 or email mstacey1 @nd.edu. Bumbaca houses offer you Do not go it alone. If you or some-Looking for a JOB or INTERN-
Located on shore of Lake Superior $210,000 obo. BIG Savings for 2 or 3 year lease. one you love needs confidential SHIP? Make your resume available flexible schedules, in Big Bay, MI. Positions available support or assistance, please call to THOUSANDS of employers! no exp.needed, customer for Counselors, Waterfront, *ND CONDOS* NEW 2/3 BR,2 bath Visit our web site Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For Sign up for your FREE account on sales/service, conditions apply, all Instructors for Nature/Arts & condos Minutes from campus more information, visit our web site MONSTERTRAK, ages 17+, positions in all of Indiana Crafts/Recreation, Nurses, Starting in $130,000s 574-252-Bumbacahouses.com. at the #1 student job search engine! & Michigan, 273-3835. Therapists, Food Service, and 2427 ndcondos.com Reserve Yours http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-
Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, Today! Call Cosimo 574-277-1875. nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad Register now to be eligible for a www.workforstudents.com responsible, and love children. June in The Observer. $2,500 giveaway! 1 0 through August 5. Salary, room 3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for xxx.monsterTRAK.com/2500. 
NEED A SUMMER JOB? & board, and experience of lifetime 07/08 school year. PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME-Camp Tannadoonah provided. Call or write for applica-ONE WHO IS? Adopt: A young loving couple long is hiring 2007 camp staff. tion and information. Bay Cliff andersonNDrentals.com On line see rentnd.com or mmm-You do not have to be alone. to share their Hearts and home with 
Health Camp, P.O. Box 310, Big rentals. com. We want to help. Call our 24 hour a newborn & will provide Have the best surnmer of your life! Bay, Ml49808, (906)345-9314, e-BETIER HOMES,BETIER confidential hotline at Endless love. mail BayCiiffHC@aol.com. Visit us AREAS,BETIER DEALS. Contact Gary at Grooms@ourweb-1-800-No-ABORT or visit our web-Expenses paid call Eileen & Ed at Visit www.tannadoonah.org at www.baycliff.org BlueGoldRentals.com spot. net or phone 574-277-4759. site at www.lifecall.org 1-800-718-6577 
FoR RENT 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, March 20, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NBA 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record cont lastw 
Toronto 36·31 2445 5·5 New Jersey 31·36 2H1 4-6 New York 30·36 19·22 5·5 Philadelphia 26·41 15•22 1-3 Boston 20·46 12·26 6-4 
Eastern Conference, Central Division 

team record conf. last IO 
Detroit 42·23 tF5 64 Cleveland 41·25 7c5 ~F1 Chicago 39·29 9-3 1-3 Indiana 30-35 7-5 H Milwaukee 25·41 1·12 6·4 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record conf. lastn;; 
Washington 36·28 23·16 5,5 Miami 36·30 21M7 9-1 Orlando 31-37 18-22 3-7 Atlanta 26-41 14;26 4~6 Charlotte 24-43 15-22 2·8 
Western Conference, Northwest·Division 
team record conf. last 10 
Utah 43-23 25-12 6-4 Denver 33·31 17-22 7-3 Minnesota 28·37 16-24 3·7 Partland 26·40 16-24 2-8 Seattle 26-40 13-24 4-6 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 

team record conf. last 10 
Phoenix 50·t6 25·11 7·3 LA. Lakers 35-32 21·16 3·7 Golden State 32-36 19•20 6·4 L.A. Clippers 36-36 16·23 3-7 Sacramento 29-37 14-23 5-5 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
team record eMf. lasti6 
Dallas 54·11 33.•8 8·2 San Antonio 46,20 28·11 8~2 Houston 42·25 21-19 7~3 New Orleans 29·37 16~23 2•8 Memphis 17•50 9-29 2,8 
NCAA Div. 1women's Tennis Fila/ITA Rankings 
team .poiiits :prev. 

1 Stanford 2 NOTRE DAME 3 Georgia Tech 4 Florida 5 North Carolina 6 Northwestern 7 California 8 usc 9 Miami 10 William & Mary 11 Duke 12 Clemson 13 Baylor 14 vcu 15 UClA 


around the dial 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL Notre Dame vs. North Carolina 9:30 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA Denver at New Jersey 7 p.m., TNT 
Indiana at Houston 
9:30 p.m., TNT 
NBA 


Associated Press 
MIAMI -Dwyane Wade sat 
before a bank of microphones 
on March 5, saying he would 
need at least two weeks of 
rehabilitating his dislocated left 
shoulder before deciding 
whether to return to the Miami 
Heat1his season. 
It's been two weeks. Still, no 
one knows for sure when the 
NBAfinals MVP will be back 
And if a timetable exists, 
Wade isn't saying just yet. 
"Physically, I'm doing good," 
Wade said Monday on a confer­
ence call to announce his plan 
for upgrading his old high 
school gym at Richards High in 
Oak Lawn, Ill., a Oricago sub­
urb. ''I've been working out 
every day and doing what 
they're telling me to do. So I'm doing all right." 
Somewhat surprisingly, so are the Heat-who, even with­out their leading scorer, have rallied nicely to rise in the Eastern Conference playoff chase. 
Miami lost 97-83 to Orlando on Sunday, a defeat that halted winning streaks of nine straight overall and 14 in a row at home -both were the longest cur­rent runs in the NBA But even with that defeat, the Heat have gone 10-3 since Wade got hurt. 
"I see him on the court every day," Heat coach Pat Riley said. "He seems to be progressing. They're advancing with their drill work and he's got the heavy ball, how high he can get his anus up and stuff. He feels 
IN BRIEF 
21 arrested after high school 
basketball game 
NEW YORK-Fights between fans dur­ing a championship high school basket­ball game at Madison Square Garden turned into a melee that spilled into the streets and subways, drawing police on horseback and in riot gear. 
Gunfire was heard as the crowd went from the arena Sunday night to Times Square, but no injuries were reported, police said. 
About 21 people, mostly teenagers, were arrested, police said. Some were charged with disorderly conduct or resisting arrest and one was arrested on a riot charge. 
A 17-year-old boy was arrested at a subway station on a charge of criminal possession of a weapon. He may have fired the shots, police said. A WCBS-TV camera crew inside the arena caught images of fights breaking out in the stands, including a girl slapping a boy, who then swung around and hit her. Other boys jumped him, and police broke up the fight. 
stronger, but we won't know for a while when, exactly, the day will come when he'll start to play-so we're not even think­ing about it right now." 
V\lhen Wade got hurt, he had two options: Rehab or surgery. 
He chose rehab, with the hopes of returning sometime 1his season, but with the caveat that season-ending surgery remains a possibility if the shoulder doesn't get strong enough to allow him to play. And after one of his first work· outs after the rehab regimen started, he realized how difficult getting ready again will be. 
"It was rough, and right then, I thought surgery might not have been that bad," Wade said. "It's hard work, but ifI can get back, then it'll be worth it to 
No criminal charges filed 
against Simon for on-Ice hit 
MINEOLA, N.Y -New York Islander Chris Simon, suspended for a league­record 25 games for a vicious on-ice hit, will not face criminal charges. 
Nassau County District Attorney Kathleen Rice said her office considered "the willingness of the potential victim to support a criminal prosecution" and other factors in reaching its decision. 
The NHL suspended Simon for his two­handed stick attack to the face of the New York Rangers' Ryan Hollweg during a March 8 game at the Nassau Coliseum. 
Hollweg, who needed a few stitches on the chin but was not seriously hurt, met with prosecutors from Rice's office last week but told reporters afterward that he didn't think Simon should be arrest­ed. 
"They asked me if I wanted to, but I told them I didn't want to press charges," he said. ''I'm not happy about what he did, but I want to focus on mak­ing the playofiS. I just want to move on." 
me to go through it all." 
Wade was averaging 28.8 points when he got hurt, and at the time, the Heat were on the playoff bubble. But now they're finnly in the mix for an Eastern Conference postseason spot, plus have climbed within one game of Washington in the Southeast Division race. 
And teammates, while acknowledging they don't know when it will happen, still insist they expect Wade back 
"With our No. 1 option out, Pat asked me to use my experi­ence and get everyone involved," Heat center Shaquille O'Neal said. 'We've got a lot of veterans who know what to do when it's time to step up, and when we get our No. 1 option back we'll be ready." 

Best friends Howland and 
Dixon to meet in tournament 
PITTSBURGH -Ben Howland and Jamie Dixon promised to never schedule 1his game, even though they always secret­ly hoped it would happen. 
UCLA vs. Pitt, in the NCAA tournament. Head coach vs. former assistant. Best friend vs. best friend. Howland's old team taking on his current team, and possibly the only school he would have left Pitt to coach. 
The matchup divides even the two house­holds -Howland's daughter, Meredith, missed Pittsburgh and her friends so much after moving to the West Coast in 2003 that she returned six months later, re-enrolled in Pitt's nursing program, moved in with the Dixons and became a cheerleader. 
Because of their friendship, Howland and Dixon always insisted this game would occur only in the NCAA tournament, and now it takes place Thursday night in San Jose, Calif., as part of the West Regional semifinals. In Pittsburgh, it's the game many have waited four years to see. 
.---------------------------------------------------------------­
page 16 Tuesday, March 20, 2007
The Observer + SPORTS 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish prepare for start of league play 
Team awaits rematch against conference nemesis Bellarmine 
By PAT O'BRIEN Sports Writer 

No. 19 Notre Dame (3-3) kicks off Great Western Lacrosse League (GWLL) play with a home matchup today at 4 p.m. against league newcom­er Bellarmine (1-4). The Irish and the Knights met last season in Louisville when Notre Dame prevailed in an 8-2 match. 
But Notre Dame enters hav­ing dropped three of its last four contests, including losing games to top-15 opponents Cornell and North Carolina. After the tough 13-8 and 11-8 losses, respectively, the Irish handily defeated Drexel before being edged out by Dartmouth, 7-6, this Saturday. 
In the contest against Drexel, sophomore attacker Ryan Hoff tied the Notre Dame record of seven goals in a game. Hoff is second this season in total goals, behind senior attacker Brian Hubschmann. Hoff has netted 13, and Hubschmann has 15. Freshman attacker Will Yeatman leads the Irish in total points (20) and assists (11). Junior goaltender Joey Kemp is credited with all six decisions for the Irish. He holds an 8.39 goals-against average and a .561 save percentage. 
Hoff, Yeatman, and senior midfielder Bill Liva were the Irish point leaders in the game against North Carolina. Hoff netted two goals while Yeatman recorded a goal and two assists of his own. Liva scored once and added an assist. 
In the loss to Dartmouth, Hubschmann paved the way for the Irish with three goals and an assist. Yeatman had another solid day with an assist and goal, senior attacker John Greaney scored his first goal of the season and junior midfield­er Michael Podgajny added a score. Junior attacker Alex Wharton also helped out with two assists. Dartmouth (1-3) was led by Ari Sussman, who netted three goals. Nick Bonacci added two goals and two assists of his own in a game that featured few attempts on the net. Notre Dame edged Dartmouth 25-22 in shots. 
Notre Dame will try to bounce back from its spring break valley when the Knights come to town. The Irish look to continue their dominance of the GWLL over the last 12 years. Notre Dame is 46-9 all-time in GWLL play, with nine league titles. 
"This is a pretty important game," Hubschmann said. "This starts league play -the five most important games of the season. [Bellarmine] has many Canadians on their ros­ter, so they play with a different style. It will be a good game to watch." 
This game marks the first time since the season opener that the Irish have a chance to play at home. They won their opener against Loyola (Md.) by a tally of 9-7, and hold an eight-game winning streak in South Bend. 
"It's nice to be back in front of a home crowd again," Hubschmann said. "I get to sleep in my own bed." 
Bellarmine is led by Ray Finnegan, who heads the Knights in the three major offensive categories Finnegan has 15 points, eight goals, and seven assists. The Knights finished 7-8 last sea­son, and they look to bounce back from a 9-8 loss at No. 18 Brown on March 13. 
Contact Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.edu 
THE NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR ETHICS AND CULTURE PRESENTS THE 22N° ANNUAl PHILIP AND DORIS ClARKE FAMILY LECTURE ON MEDICAL ETHICS 


FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 2007 
Professor Margaret Monahan Hogan 
Executive Director of the Caraventa Center for Catholic Intellectual Life and American Culture, McNerney-Hanson Chair of Ethics, University of Portland 
McKenna Hall Auditorium 
4:00PM 
Lecture is free and open to the public. 

SMC GOLF 
Golfers place sixth at Myrtle 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Despite coming off a successful training trip, Saint Mary's faltered this weekend in the Fairfield Invitational in Myrtle Beach, S.C. 
The Belles finished sixth with a two-round combined total of 834 strokes, or 258 over par, in their first tournament of the spring sea­son. 
Junior Katie O'Brien led the Belles, finishing 24th overall with a two-round score of 191. Sophomore Meredith Fantom fin­ished 26th with a 197. 
Several variables may have fac­tored into the sixth-place per­formance. 
"I think if you look at all the scores in general from all of the teams, all of the teams shot 10 to 15 percent higher than they nor­mally score," Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. "We were playing a lot of northern teams so it was everybody's first competitive rounds. Weather was an issue, we had to play in some downpour and some cold weather." 
The length of the course not only made it more difficult but also changed the course manage­ment strategies the players employed. 
"The course played about 6,000 yards, which is about 200 yards longer than we're normally used to playing," Hamilton said. "And then there were a lot of dogleg holes or hazards in the landing area, so you couldn't hit a driver off the tee. That lent itself to hav­ing longer approach shots, and we struggled with that a little bit." 
Despite the scores, the team displayed some strong aspects of play. 
"I felt like we actually struck the ball pretty well," Hamilton said. "We just kind of struggled with the conditions and being our first tournament of the year, we had some first-tee jitters, but I think the ball-striking we did quite well." 
The tournament also highlight­ed the areas of the Belles' game that require improvement, such as mid-range pitches that caused Saint Mary's some trouble. 
"We had some issues with our 20, 30 and 40-yard shots, proba­bly because the dormant grass down there makes those shots very hard, but we need to work on those anyway," Hamilton said. 
Aside from pitching, Saint Mary's putting was another area that the Belles will seek to improve in the spring season. It may have been related to the short game -Hamilton said the pitches needed to be closer to the pin. 
The team that played was a young one -one freshman and four sophomores made the trip. The youth not only put pressure on the inexperienced players themselves, but also on the older players also to pick up their game. 
"There were a couple players, who it was really their first time knowing their score was going to count," Hamilton said. "And then the other players, knowing that they had to step up to make up ground, put a little more pressure on them too. Everyone was feeling a little more pressure than nor­mal." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
~uday, Macch 20, 2007 
FENCING 
Tean1 will again send 11 to Cha1npionships 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Much as it did two seasons 
ago en route to a national 
championship, Notre Dame 
qualified 11 of the maximum 12 
fencers to the NCAA 
Championships, which begin 
Thursday in Madison, N.J. 
The Irish captured two indi­vidual titles at the Midwest Hegional March 10, with nine additional fencers fmishing well enough to qualify for the four­day competition at Drew University. 
Sophomore foilist Adi Nott and freshman epeeist Kelley Hurley continued their domi­nance of their respective weapons, cruising to crowns. 
Hurley beat Ohio State's Leslie Lampman 15-5 in the final, while Nott took an indi­vidual crown for the second straight week with an 8-6 win over Northwestern's Samantha Nemecek. 
Nott credited first-year Irish 
assistant coach Gia 
Kvaratskhelia with much of her 
improvement. 
"Since Gia got here, he's real­ly helped a lot with my foot­work," she said. "He alWays makes your legs feel strong the whole [bout]." 
Nott will be joined in New Jersey by fellow foilist sopho­more Emilie Prot. After an early-season appendectomy, Prot entered the Midwest Regional as the 3-seed but lost in the quarterfinals. In the bracket for fifth place, she won the first bout before storming back from a 10-7 deficit to beat Ohio State's Holly McKibben 15­12. 
"This season was really tough because ... I had my surgery," she said. "[This was] my year to qualifY. I had some good bouts, but others were not so nice." 
Irish senior Valerie Providenza finished third in the women's sabre, qualifying her for a spot in New Jersey. Sophomore Ashley Serrette fin­ished sixth but earned a berth to the NCAAs, as Ohio State had three sabreists in the top five. 
On the men's side, Irish soph­omore Bill Thanhouser took second in the men's sabre, fol­lowed by his teammate, senior. Patrick Ghattas, in third. Irish senior Matt Stearns beat fellow senior Ryan Bradley for fifth place, but the two-person limit per team per weapon eliminat­ed Stearns from the national competition. 
"We have a really tight team," Thanhouser said. "It really is just luck of the draw what hap­pens." 
In men's epee, Notre Dame qualified sophomore Karol Kostka and junior Greg Howard, who finished third and fourth, respectively. 
Irish junior Jakub Jedrkowiak, who finished sec­ond, and sophomore Mark Kubik, who finished fourth, both qualified in men's foil. 
Ohio State also qualified 11, while Columbia, Penn State and St. John's qualified 12 fencers at other regional events. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
By CHRIS HINE 
Sports Writer 
Whether they play indoors or outdoors, the results are the same for the Irish. 
No. 2 Notre Dame defeated No. 29 BYU 5-2 in an indoor match March 10, then downed No. 23 Duke 4-3 March 15 and No. 19 Tennessee 6-1 March 16 in a pair of outdoor matches in San Diego, Calif. 
"This was a great trip for us," Notre Dame coach Jay Louderback said. "There were two tough things we knew going into [it]. One was the alti­tude [against BYUJ and it was good for us to have to handle that. 
"The other was to play our first outdoor matches. We had­n't played any outdoors yet. For us to have to go outdoors for the first time, it was very good for us." 
The Irish (15-1) took care of the No. 29 Cougars despite los­ing the doubles point for just the third time all season. The No. 5 ranked duo of seniors Christian and Catrina Thompson dropped their match against BYU's Anastasia Surkova and Jenny Miccoli 8-3. The Thompsons also lost against Duke's No. 36 pairing of Daniela Bercek and Melissa Mang. 
Christian Thompson also dropped all three of her singles matches during the week. 
"She had a rough week but played OK, especially against Duke," Louderback said. "She was up and probably should have won." 
But Christian Thompson's teammates picked up the slack. 
co...e and Listen. co...e and Read co...e and Play Lectio@Eieve:n. 

A Late-Night Caba..et fo.. the Soul 
11:00 pm every Tuesday at Recker's Free pizza supplied by First Year of Studies! 
March 20 featuring: Music by The Lazy Suzans 
Coming March 27: Tolkien Night! 

Lectio@Eleven brings a cabaret of great music and great writing, read aloud, for the Notre Dame community. Come to Recker's and hear it with your own ears! 
We are always looking for more readers and musicians. If interested, contact Jonathan Couser at j couser@nd.edu or call 631-3923. 
Sponsored by First Year ofStudies 

The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 

No. 2 Irish continue to roll 

Junior Brook Buck clinched the win against the Cougars with a 6-4, 6-1 victory over Dolly Chang. Buck captured her three singles matches last week from the No. 6 position to improve her record to 11-1 in dual match play. 
Buck's win over Duke's Clelia Deltour played an important part in Notre Dame's victory over the Blue Devils. The Irish captured the doubles point despite the Thompsons' loss at No. 1 and overcame a slow start in the singles as Buck arid Catrina Thompson won their matches early to give Notre Dame a 3-1 lead. 
"At one point it looked like it was going to be 6"1 us, but the Duke kids fought hard," Louderback said. 
Duke (18-7) needed the remaining three matches to win, and it almost got them. No. 108 Mang downed No. 89 Christian Thompson (1-6, 6-4, 7-5) and Duke freshman Amanda Granson defeated Irish sophomore Kelcy Tefft (6-1, 1­6, 6-4) to tie the score at three. 
"[Duke] stayed in it and all of 
American Hair Cutters 574-273-1286 

/Style men's Cuts. Ladies Style: Cuts/Perms/Color/Waxings. 
On the corner of SR 933 and Brick Rd. 
STUDENT DISCOUNT -with 10. Walk-ins or Appointments Welcome 

a sudden it was down to one match," Louderback said. 
With the match on the line, Notre Dame freshman Cosmina Ciobanu responded. Ciobanu fought back after dropping the first set (2-6) in her match against Blue Devils junior Tory Zawacki to take the second set, 6-2. Then with her match tied 5-5 in the third set and the overall score knotted at three, Ciobanu took the final two games to win the match and give Notre Dame the victory. 
"Duke is ranked 23 but they're a top-15 team," Louderback said. "They just haven't played a lot of good teams yet. Their schedule is tougher at the end of the year when they play all of the ACC teams. They'll be a top 15 school. They're very good and for us to go beat them, outdoors -they've been outside some." 
Ciobanu improved her dual match record to 16-0 against Tennessee as she defeated Vicky Jones 6-2, 6-0. No. 27 Catrina Thompson also picked up her third match of the week with a 6-0, 6-3 win over Volunteer senior No. 22 Blakeley Griffith. For the sea­son, Catrina Thompson is now 13-3 in dual matches from the No.1 slot. 
"She played very well [against] Griffith. She's a very, very good player," Louderback said. 
Up next for Notre Dame is Wisconsin Thursday in Madison. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
ATRIA SALON 2 
Specializing in color 271.8804 The Original "Specializing in Color" Salon, where we make blondes "BLONDE"! 
HIGHLIGHTS &CUTS: $79.00 
STARTING MARCH 21sr_APRIL 10TH 2007 
NO ORDINARY SALON, NO ORDINARY BLONDES. 
*CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS APPLY. Atria Salon 2039 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 t: 574.271.8804 -MUST PRESENT THIS AD­
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, March 20, 2007 
WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish see mixed set of results 
Nakazaki leads the team in two Spring Break tournaments 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Notre Dame stayed active over spring break. 
The Irish started slowly at the UNLV Spring Invitational on March 12, finishing the first two rounds in 17th place, but they carded a sea­son-best five-over-par 293 to end in 15th with an overall score of 906 (42-over). No. 14 BYU won the tournament with a 17-under par 847. 
Wednesday's team total of 293 matched the program's third-lowest 18-hole score since the second round of the 2004 Big East Tournament. 
Senior co-captain Noriko Nakazaki led the Irish with a 44th-place finish with an 
overall with a score of 224 (75-73-76). Irish freshman Julie Kim matched sopho­more Lisa Maunu's mark of 229 and tied for 65th. Maunu tied freshman Kristin Wetzel with a third-round 72, the team's best mark. Wetzel ended the tournament in a tie for 81st, shooting a 233 (81-80-72). Freshman Annie Brophy shot her best round of the season on Wednesday with a l-over par 73, leaving her in a tie for 68th with a total of 230 (76-81-73). 
Notre Dame then traveled to Texas for the Betsy Rawls Longhorn Invitational in Austin. The Irish started strong in the first round and eventually placed 8th with a mark of 937 (314-315-308). No. 18 Purdue made a lc:ite surge and captured the title in Austin with a tournament­best round of four-over-par 
292. The Boilermakers' final-round performance erased an 8-stFoke deficit. 
Despite the team finish, 
Nakazaki once again shot well, leading the Irish with a 223 (75-75-73) -good enough for a sixth-place tie. Her three round total marked the fourth time the senior has finished in the top-1 0 this season. 
Brophy finished in a tie for 20th with a 233 (78-79-76), marking her highest overall placing and best 54-hole total of the season. Kim started the tournament with two consecutive rounds of 10-over par 82 but finished with a 77, leaving her with a total of 241 in a tie for 48th. 
Wetzel finished the tourna­ment with a score of 242 (80-79-83), placing her in a tie for 54th, while Maunu's mark of 245 (81-82-82) placed her in a tie for 61st. 
Notre Dame's heads to Indianapolis for the Indiana Invitational hosted by Crooked Stick on April 9-10. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles do111ina te on vvay to early 9-1111ark 
By REBECCA SLINGER 
Sports Writer 
The Belles left no question of their dominance over spring break, beating nine teams and dropping only one game in Ft. Myers over five days. 
On their opening day on Sunday, the team beat Montclair State 3-1 and pummeled Mount Ida 13-4. Sophomore pitcher Kristen Amram gave up only two hits, and sophomore Ashley Fusaro hit a home run on her first pitch in the Belles' triumph over Montclair. Junior captain McKenna Corrigan and Laura Heline also scored a run each in the win. 
Saint Mary's continued its show of power Monday, posting wins over Curry (21-1) and Nichols (19-0). 
Sophomore pitcher Calli Davison gave up only two runs, while sophomore Cathy Kurczak 
Want to spend your summer living and working in the Hamptons? 
You'll have a once in a lifetime opportunity to live and work in the Hamptons for two summers! Earn a partial scholarship plus a weekly ·stipend. 
Looking for motivated, self-starter who enjoys working with people. Must be a freshman or sophomore who can work outside. 
If interested, send a resume and a brief composition to shumphre@nd.edu by Sunday March 25, explaining why you would be a great candidate for the internship. 
COME SEE WHAT'S~NEW AT TURTLE CREEK!! 

went 3-for-3 at the plate. Corrigan, Davison, Fusaro, freshman Ashley Peterson and senior Sarah Miesle all con­tributed with runs against Curry. In their second game, the Belles ripped through Nichols with the aid of pitcher Kristin Amram throwing a fiye-inning no-hitter, the second of her career. 
The Belles followed up the no-· no with an 8-4 win over New England College. Davison showed she has power not only from the mound but also from behind the plate, going 3-for-4. Amram pitched in the Belles second game ori Tuesday, lead­ing the team over Ohio Wesleyan with 14 strikeouts in a 5-0 win. 
Saint Mary's dropped its only one game of the week in a 3-2 contest against Illinois College Wednesday. Amram surren­dered only three hits but walked six batters, while sophomore Katie Rashid contributed two runs and freshman Maureen Healy went 3-for-4. 
Saint Mary's will look to build off its loss to Illinois. 
"The Illinois game was a tough loss for us, but a good one," Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. "We were 6-0, and a lot of the teams were gunning for us. We had a few calls go against us, but the team fought back after each negative situation." 
In their second game of the day, the Belles avenged the loss to Illinois by beating Blackburn College in an 8-4 decision. Davison struck out seven, while Fusaro blasted two homers and Peterson added one of her own. 
The Belles posted wins over North Park University (6-2) and No. 24 Transylvania (6-1) in their last two games. Davison threw for the win against North Park, finishing the week with a 5-0 record. Kurczak, Rashid and Corrigan all went 2-for-3 with Rashid and Corrigan both added homers. Amram improved her record to 4-1, recording 13 strikeouts against Transylvania. 
Sullivan is confident a .9-1 start is just the beginning of the dominance the Belles will show this season. 
"They more than met my expectations," she said. "We played our game throughout the entire trip which showed
000 
how mentally tough we are. After having won those games and dominated some of the teams I'm very confident
000 
going into our conference sea­son." 
Contact Rebecca Slinger at rslingO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Tuesday, March 20, 2007 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NO SWIMMING 
Katie Carroll earns All-A111erica honors 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will be losing one of the program's greatest swimmers, but senior captain Katie Carroll left her coach and teammates with a vintage performance at the NCAA Championships held March 8­10 at the Minnesota Aquatic Center. 
Swimming for the final time in her Irish career, Carroll earned All-America honors in the 400-yard IM, honorable 
"/ hope I was a

mention All­program's America honors good leader. " record for in the 200 butter­points in the fly, and she had a N C A A
Katie Carroll 

hand in all five of Championships Notre Dame's of 52 set in
Irish senior swimmer 
attention on training for the 2008 Olympics, and she leaves having left her mark on the younger swimmers. 
"I hope I was a good leader," Carroll said. "I hope I taught the other girls how to train hard and how to rise to the occasion." 
As a team, Notre Dame's performance at the NCAA Championships was full of mixed results. Despite sending the second largest number of participants in the program's history -eight -the Irish fell well short of meeting the 

top-20 finishes during the meet. 
Carroll gar­nered her All-America status by finishing seventh with a time of 4:12.47. Carroll's per­formance in the 400 IM helped her achieve her second career All-American honor. Her first such honor came in 2005 when she finished seventh in the same event. 
"It was a good way to go out." Carroll said. "It means I finished swimming my best times. I wanted All-American honors in all three of my races, but it was good to get the honor again after getting it my sophomore year." 
Carroll's honorable mention All-America honor came in the 200 butterfly, where she finished No. 12. In the prelimi­naries, Carroll touched the wall in a school record time of 1:57.58, besting former Irish standout Lisa Garcia's 2002 time of 1:58.39, before Carroll's finals time slowed to 1:58.10. 
Overall for the meet, Carroll competed in seven events net­ting the top-1 0 finish in the 400 IM, three top-15 finishes and five top-20 finishes. Carroll will now turn her 
2002. This 
year's squad 
tallied 25 points which was good for 27th in the country. 
Notable performances included a 34th-place finish in the 200 freestyle by sopho­more Christa Riggins. Her time of 1:48.46 was the third­fastest in the program's histo­ry. The 800 freestyle relay team of Riggins, Carroll, freshman Megan Farrell and senior Ellen Johnson entered the meet ranked No. 14 nationally and improved upon that ranking, touching the wall with a time 7:14.91 ­good for 13th. 
Overall, the team's perform­ance was a marked improve­ment over last year, when the Irish qualified only three women to participate in the meet. 
"It was good to have four underclassmen at the meet as it helped them get their feet wet and get used to the expe­rience," Carroll said. "It really gave them a confidence boost to know that they can compete with the best." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

Castle Point Apartments 18011 Cleveland Road South Bend, Indi~n~> 
o~~ening 
ROWING 
Irish perfor111 vvell against strong squads 
No.ll team holds its own in intense week 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
After over a week of intense training, Notre Dame conclud­ed its spring break with strong performances in regat­tas against No. 9 Tennessee, No. 13 Minnesota, Alabama and Cincinnati. 
The Irish, ranked No. 11 by the US Rowing/Collegiate Rowing Coaches Association (CRCA) poll, began their weekend Saturday with races against the Volunteers and Golden Gophers with mixed results. 
Notre Dame's varsity-eight boat finished third in two of the three rounds while taking second in the remaining ses­sion. Minnesota placed first in all three rounds. In the first round, the Irish clocked a time of 4:57.2, nearly nine seconds behind the Golden Gophers. Notre Dame's best time of the day came in the second round, when the squad clocked in at 4:53.9, finishing just behind Minnesota's time of 4:51.1 and ahead of Tennessee's mark of 4:58.8. 
"We had similar results a year ago against these two same schools," Irish coach Martin Stone said. "Both of these teams are very good. I was pleased with our results, and we are coming off of a good week of training." 
The most pleasant surprise of the regatta was the per­formance of the novice-eight boat. Competing in their first collegiate regatta, the mem­bers of the novice-eight boat won all three of their races, never allowing Tennessee or Minnesota to finish within five seconds of the lead time. The squad's best performance came in the first round when they finished in 5:07.2. 
"We were obviously very pleased with how well our novice-eight crew rowed," Stone said. ''I'm not sure we have ever had such strong results from this boat so early in the season. It certainly is something to build on in the upcoming weeks." 
In other action on Saturday, Notre Dame's second varsity boat and varsity-four boat both finished third in all of their races. 
The Irish saw a marked improvement in their per­formance Sunday, winning four of five races against Alabama and Cincinnati. Notre Dame's varsity-eight, second varsity-eight, varsity­four and novice-eight all won, with the second novice-eight squad coming in second. 
The first varsity-eight boat finished in 6:38.31 -more than 18 seconds ahead of sec­ond-place Alabama (6:56.52). Meanwhile, the second varsi­ty-eight crew finished in 6:49.85, with Cincinnati tak­ing second in 7:05.7. 
The Irish swept the top two spots in varsity-four action, with the "A" boat clocking in at 7:54.55 and the "B" boat finishing in 8:01.02. The novice-eight boat remained undefeated on the weekend, taking first place with a time of 7:04.22 -more than eight seconds ahead of Alabama (7:15.33). 
"I thought we rowed better [Sunday]," Stone said. "We made some adjustments after seeing some things in Saturday races, and we saw some improvement. We still need to work on some things, but it is very early in the sea­son, and we definitely have time to do that." 
Notre Dame will compete in its next regatta Saturday when the team travels to Ann Arbor, Mich., to take on No. 14 Michigan State and No. 15 Michigan. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
574~272-8.1 10 574~272-8.114 FAX www.cpgJ.~comi, 
Specials! 
() lndoor/Outdoo.r'fieR Basketball 
..-. . . 
''Free Tann1ng ~· 
j 
·d 
() Heated Pool () Relaxing JacJzzi () Gated Commilnity 

SMC TENNIS 
Belles end at .500 in Orlando 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's started its season off with a . 500 performance in Orlando over spring break. 
In the season opener for both Franklin & Marshall and Saint Mary's, the Belles claimed victo­ries in both the No. 1 doubles and No. 3 singles spots before losing a 7-2 match. In the sin­gles match, Belles sophomore Mary E. Campbell defeated Erica Wood 3-6, 6-2, 6-0. Saint Mary's also gained a point with senior Kelly McDavitt and fresh­man Camille Gebert's 9-7 win over Katie Gaskins and Barbara Bee. 
Wisconsin-LaCrosse handed the Belles their second straight loss to open the season with another 7-2 match March 12. Wisconsin-LaCrosse swept Saint Mary's in doubles play, but Gebert added a win with a 7-6 (7 -4), 6-2 victory over Rachel Benn at No. 2 singles. Freshman Lisa Rubino defeated Erin Fekete 4-6, 6-3, 6-3 at the No. 4 spot. 
Later in the day, the Belles handily claimed their first win of the season with an 8-1 beating of Haverford. Saint Mary's took an early lead, winning five of the six singles matches -four of which came in straight sets. The Belles swept doubles action and sealed their victory by tak­ing all three doubles positions with 8-2 victories. 
Division II University of Puerto Rico handed Saint Mary's its third loss with an 8-1 decision. Puerto Rico swept the Belles in doubles play, but junior Cassie Quaglia gained the match's lone point with a 0-6, 7-6 (7-5), 10-8 win over Juliana Pollock. 
The Belles' second victory was a 6-3 win over Hamilton. Quaglia continued her dominant play with a win over Beth McDonald in straight sets (6-3, 6-1). Saint Mary's went on to win four of the other five singles matches, but won only one of the three doubles matches. 
But the Belles success in dou­bles play proved to be the differ­ence in a 5-4 victory over Bentley March 15. Gebert and McDavitt played well, winning in both their singles and doubles matches. Saint Mary's split the singles matches and took two of the three doubles matches to earn them the close win. 
The Belles continued their aggressive play with an assertive 9-0 sweep over Drew a day later. Saint Mary's came into the competition focused and was able to improve its record to 4-3 with the flawless performance. 
The Belles' winning streak ended with a 7-2 loss to Skidmore later in the day, leav­ing them at 4-4 on their spring trip in Orlando. Saint Mary's lost five out of the first six singles matches until senior Grace Gordon defeated Kyra Travis with a 7-6, 3-6, 10-8 decision. Kelly McDavitt and Camille Gebert continued to show their excellent chemistry with yet another doubles win over Danielle Fancher and Kate Hugo, 8-2. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
Tuesday, March 20, 2007
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Team captures title on road 
Tulsa's Arnau Brugues and
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Federico Soriano. Diego
Sports Writer 
Camacho and Ross Cunningham clinched the doubles point for 
Notre Dame's win Sunday Tulsa as they cruised past Barry over No. 14 Alabama marked King and Brett Helgeson 8-3 at the third championship title for No.2 doubles. the Irish in the Blue/Gray But after falling behind in Classic since 1993. doubles, the Irish rallied and 
''I'm really proud of our guys never looked back. -they played at a very high No. 57 Parbhu evened the level over the weekend," Notre score by defeating Frederico Dame coach Bobby Bayliss said. Soriano 6-4, 6-2 at No. 2 sin­"They did a terrific job of mak­gles. Helgeson was not far 
ing the transi­ behind as he took  
tion outdoors."  the 7-6, 6-3 win  
Heading down  over  Ricardo  
to Montgomery, Ala., provided Notre Dame with the oppor­ "We have to focus on becoming better in all positions. ,,  Soriano at No. 3 singles for the go­ahead point. No. 12 Stephen  
tunity to prepare  Bass dropped the  
for the rest of its outdoor season. Before the  Bobby Bayliss Irish coach  opening set to No. 5 Brugues, 6-3, at No. 1 singles, but  
Blue/Gray  he quickly rallied  
Classic, the Irish  to win 3-6, 6-1, 6­ 

had played a majority of their 3 and give Notre Dame the 3-1 matches indoors. lead. 
Notre Dame adjusted to the "[Bass] by nature has been a differences of playing outside, counter-puncher, and he has but the team still faced chal­slowly added some firepower to lenges, especially in doubles his game," Bayliss said. "This play. was a match in which he really 
The Irish struggled with dou­needed to be aggressive and he bles in their 4-1 win over No. 26 did just that." Tulsa Saturday in the semifi­King defeated Will Gray 6-2, nals. Notre Dame lost at both 4-6, 6-4 to secure Notre Dame's No. 1 and No. 2 doubles to fall place in the finals. behind by one. The No. 13 dou­The Irish struggled again in bles team of Ryan Keckley and doubles play against Alabama Sheeva Parbhu dropped its in the finals Sunday. Keckley match 8-2 at No. 1 doubles to and Parbhu dropped their No. 1 singles match 8-2 to Alabama's Dan Buikema and Mathieu Thibaudeau. The Tide clinched the doubles point when Javier Bes and Sammy Struyf defeated Andrew Roth and Bass 8-4 at No. 3 doubles. 
Bayliss said the team likely struggled at doubles since it had to adjust to outdoor courts. 
"In moving outside our guys have been a little more vulnera­ble around the net and it's something that we have got to deal with," he said. 
Despite dropping the doubles point for the second day in a row, the Irish were not fazed. 
Bass defeated Struyf 6-2, 6-2 and Helgeson defeated Billy Mertz 6-0, 6-0. King defeated Bes 6-3, 6-3 and Roth defeated Dan Buikema 6-2, 6-1 to secure Notre Dame's championship title. 
Even though the Irish won the Blue/Gray classic, Bayliss said the team hopes to continue to improve in the weeks ahead. Notre Dame faces an onset of matches against high-ranked opponents like Ohio State and Illinois, and Bayliss said he would like to see a more well­rounded team by then. 
"We have to focus on becom­ing better in all positions," he said. "We can't just maintain what we've done-we need to really improve our skills." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish struggle behind plate in tourna111en ts 
Team drops games at Long Beach tourney and Garman Classic 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Notre Dame had a loaded plate over spring break when it started off the week with a doubleheader March 11 at the Long Beach Invitational. The Irish started the day with a 10-2 victory over Eastern Kentucky, but lost 9-3 to No. 12/16 UCLA in Lakewood, Calif. 
Notre Dame jumped out to an early lead over Eastern Kentucky with three runs in the first inning. The Irish exe­cuted small-ball play with two bunts to advance runners in the opening frame. With run­ners on base, junior Katie Laing drove in the final runs of the inning with a two-run double. 
Eastern Kentucky closed the lead to one run, but the Irish offense provided enough run support for senior pitcher Kenya Fuemmeler, who improved to 2-4 with four hits allowed, eight strikeouts and one earned run. 
Fuemmeler also pitched in 

William Ramsey Associate Professor of Philosophy 
the second half of the double­header, in which the Irish squandered an early lead. Both teams traded runs in the first two innings until UCLA put the contest away with insurance runs after the third inning, posting three in the fourth and two in the sixth. Sophomore Brittney Bargar was given the loss against UCLA, with six innings pitched, 11 hits and six strikeouts. 
The Irish traveled to Fullerton, Calif., for the Judi Garman Classic March 15 at the Titan Softball Complex, where they fell 3-0 to No. 2/4 Arizona State. 
Sun Devils pitcher Katie Burkhart stole the game with her first-ever perfect game. She threw 13 strikeouts in the seven-inning blanking. 
Barger dropped her fifth decision but earned her ninth complete game of the season, allowing six hits, two earned runs and eight strikeouts. 
On Friday, Notre Dame earned a 4-2 win over Fresno State in the second game of the Judi Garman Classic. Fresno State jumped out to an early lead, but the Irish answered, tying the game up in the first inning with senior Gessica Hufnagle's RBI single. 
Barger relieved the senior and earned her first save of the season. 
The Irish dropped the sec­ond half of the doubleheader with a 4-2 loss to No. 17/16 Louisiana-Lafayette. Bargar gave up three runs in the fourth inning, which proved to be the difference Louisiana-Lafayette needed to hand the sophomore her sixth loss. 
Notre Dame then lost its sixth game to a ranked oppo­nent on the season with a 3-0 defeat at the hands of No. 8 Texas. Bargar allowed only three runs on eight hits, but Texas pitcher Megan Denny threw a complete-game one­hitter, earning 13 strikeouts. 

Notre Dame ended the Judi Garman Classic with a 8-0 loss to Pacific. The Irish pitching suffered a rocky fourth inning, allowing six runs and handing Fuemmeler the loss. Once again, the Irish bats were silenced by another opposing pitching gem -this time from Chelsea Engle, who allowed four base runners and gave up two hits in five innings. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 


-Academic Honor Code-

Also featuring student Sarah Glatt
Dennis .Jacobs Vice President and Associate Provost Get tapped in at Legends 
Doors Open at 8:30pm, Speaker starts-9:00pm Free soft-drinks and food, cash bar Can't make it? More to come on 4/18 
• Courses in 57 subjects
Northwestern 

• 
Pre-law Summer Institute 


• 
Summer Writers' Conference 

• 
Summer Study Abroad 


• 
Summer Institute in Negotiation 

• 
Summer Field Studies 


• 
Green City: A Field Study in Chicago 



Registration opens April 9 • Classes start june 18 
Request a catalog or visit us online today! 847-491-5250 • www.northwestern.edu/summer 

Tuesday, March 20, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
and center LaToya Pringle. "As athletic as their players "I knew I had just missed so, 46-45 lead. Larkins has been effective on are, it's just going to be about I was a little upset with myself In the second half, Foster
Tourney 
the glass at both ends, grab­how much we can bring our but I knew I was gonna make was key to the Golden Bears' bing five offensive rebounds own game, our A game, and the next two so I wasn't really comeback, grabbing six boards
continued from page 24 
and five defensive boards per how much we can get in their worried about it," the fresh­and playing tough defense to 
game, while scoring 13 points heads," she said. "I don't think man said. "I just wanted to force stops. 
minutes or less. But McGraw a night. Pringle has led the Tar we're gonna be scared of them step up and knock them "She's like a spark, she's doesn't think the extra rest Heels defensively with 3.2 -it's just gonna be a very down." always created that role for us, will give North Carolina any blocks per game this season. emotional game." After Lechlitner's free being that sixth man and being real advantage. Matching up against this Williamson is one third of throws, there was not enough that spark off the bench," 
"I think the way they play strong post presence will be Notre Dame's freshmen-only time for a final desperation Golden Bears head coach they're in really good shape. I Irish centers Melissa D'Amico bench, joined by guards shot for the Golden Bears, giv­Joanne Boyle said. "She's think they run with everyone and Erica Williamson. The duo Melissa Lechlitner and Ashley ing the Irish the win. owned it, and that's what we they play," she said. "I don't has platooned at the post this Barlow. This trio has shined so Notre Dame was confident need." think that conditioning at this season, averaging a combined far this season and Notre down the stretch and nailed Even after California point in the season will be a 10.1 points and 11.6 rebounds Dame's first round win over key shots to stay ahead of grabbed a two-point lead with factor." at center for Notre Dame this California was no exception. California. Irish guard Tulyah a jumper from forward 
Regardless of the extra rest, season. Williamson provided a defen­Gaines pushed the Irish ahead Devanei Hampton, Notre Dame McGraw understands the One advantage the Irish sive spark inside for the Irish, with a pair of free throws with stayed focus and fought back. threat the Tar Heel's speed have inside against the Tar Barlow hustled on the glass to 17 seconds remaining to give The Irish quickly went on a 10­creates and understands the Heels inside is size. Larkins grab 10 boards and Lechlitner the Irish a four-point lead. But 1 run to stretch the lead back danger it poses. and forward Rashanda showed her experience by the Golden Bears fought back to 58-51, keyed by a jumper 
"I don't think you can slow McCants are both only 6-foot-sinking crucial free throws at when guard Lauren Greif from guard Charel Allen to them down," she said. 1, while Pringle is 6-foot-3. For the end of the game. made all three of her free give Notre Dame a two-posses­"They've got five people that the Irish, D'Amico is 6-foot-5, "I think the more experience throws to bring her team to sion lead at 56-51. can really run the floor." Williamson is 6-foot-4 and we had during this season is within a point with only seven Two days later, the Irish have 
Latta leads the North starting forward Crystal Erwin going to be more of a factor seconds left. a new challenge. Regardless of Carolina offense. She has been is 6-foot-2. [than high school experience]," The Irish moved the ball up North Carolina's speed or instrumental for the Tar Heels "They have some big bodies Lechlitner said. "We have the court quickly, keeping the ranking, the Irish are confi­throughout her four years in that set a lot of screens for played a lot of ranked teams, ball carrier away from dent they can compete against Chapel Hill, scoring 2,225 them. They have a little more and we have a lot of experi­California defenders and Dallas' top seed. points -the most in program bulk than we do," Tar Heels ence beating those ranked avoiding any fouls. Despite the "We just have to play our history. Latta has continued to coach Sylvia Hatchell said. teams this season." Golden Bears' best efforts, they best and play our hardest," impress this season and was "But we put a lot of people in The last major test for the could not foul the Irish until it Barlow said. "I think if we named first-team all-ACC and there, and we're pretty athletic Irish was Sunday's first-round was too late. come out and play the way we the ACC tournament MVP. On so it should be a good game. Despite the close finish, the know how we can play we can the season, Latta has scored matchup." With half a second remaining Irish led for the first three do anything. As long as the 
16.4 points and dished out 4.5 Even though McGraw claims and Notre Dame leading quarters of the game by as team believes we can accom­assists per game. that Notre Dame's post speed California 60-59, Lechlitner many as 11 points, until plish anything." 
The Tar Heels are just as does not match up well with stepped up to seal the victory Golden Bears forward Krista strong inside as outside, North Carolina, Williamson by sinking both ends of a one­Foster hit one of her two 3-Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at behind forward Erlana Larkins remains undeterred. and-one. pointers to give California a jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

NCAA 
continued from page 24 
conference, are the lowest­ranked in the RPI of the six­teen Tournament teams. The Golden Gophers -who were placed in a tough Denver bracket -were matched up against Air Force to keep the Falcons closer to home in Colorado. 
Notre Dame has yet to play Alabama-Huntsville, but it did get a close look at them during the Lightning College Hockey Classic in Tampa, Fla. when the Chargers lost 7-5 to Air Force in the first round and then beat Army 2-1 in a 
consolation game "College hockey is college Boston the next day. The hockey and weird University­only other com­Michigan
stuffcan happen

mon opponent the State win­two teams have on any night." ner for a faced is Robert shot to Morris. Notre play in the
Noah Babin

Dame split a two­F r o z e n
Irish defenseman

game series with the Eagles in January, while the Chargers beat Robert Morris in a 5-4 overtime thriller to clinch their Tournament berth. 
"When I found out that Alabama came back and won Four April 5 in St. Louis. 
The Spartans, who finished third in the CCHA tourna­ment, split a home-and-home series with the Irish earlier in the season. Notre Dame won the first game 4-0 at home, that game, I was impressed," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 
Jackson said his team is excited about its draw, but is making sure it does not over­look any opponents. 
"College hock­ey is college hockey and weird stuff can happen on any night," senior defenseman Noah Babin said. "Everybody is the same amount of threat, so you just have to take people out one by one." 
If Notre Dame defeats 
Alabama-Huntsville, they will face off with the 
"We've learned to play a little bit more consistent on the road. " 
Jeff Jackson Irish coach 
also a strong defensive team and has made it this far using the same winning formulas as the Irish. The Terriers have jockeyed with Notre Dame all year for the No. 1 defense in the country. Senior goalie John Curry is a Robey Baker finalist like Irish goalie Dave Brown and has a goals­against average of 1.92. 
"They're a concern like any other team, but right now we are looking at the game we play on Friday, and the other game will take care of itself," Jindra said. 
Contact Dan Murphy at drnurphy6@nd.edu 
but Michigan State came back with a 2-0 shutout on its own ice the following night. 
"That was then, and this is now-we've learned to play a little bit more consistent on 
the road," Jackson said in reference to the 2-0 loss at Munn Arena. 
Michigan State was the only team this season to shut out the Irish offense. 
Boston University is 
Florida 
continued from page 24 
Notre Dame then went 3-1 in Florida Gulf Coast University's Saint Patrick's Week Classic in Fort Myers to close out its trip. 
The Irish batted .303 and averaged seven runs per game for the trip, with a pair of freshmen leading the way. 
"[Infielder] A.J. Pollock had an outstanding trip, especially at the plate," Schrage said. "[Catcher] Ryan Smith had a great trip behind the plate and with the bat." 
The freshman duo was No. 1 and No. 2 on the team in bat­ting average for the trip. Pollock hit .419, and Smith posted a .381 mark. 
Senior centerfielder Danny Dressman also had a solid trip, hitting .367 with six RBis, including two in an 11-4 rout of Dayton. A seventh-inning walk in that game also gave Dressman a streak of eight times on base over a two-game span. 
The Irish pitching staff com­piled a 2.88 ERA for the trip, holding opponents to a .239 batting average and posting a 2-to-1 strikeout-to-walk ratio. Sophomore righthander David Phelps ran his record to 3-1, giving up just four hits in seven innings in a 12-1 win over New York Tech. 

Despite the offensive surge and continued consistent pitch­ing, Notre Dame's early-season defensive woes continued in Florida. The Irish fell 5-3 to Florida Gulf Coast after errors caused them to squander the lead they held in the fourth inning -the fourth time this season unearned runs gave Notre Dame's opponent the win. 
"In general, the most disap­pointing aspect [of the season] has been our defense," Schrage said. "We've spent a lot of time on it. We have moved some guys around [from position to position] and maybe they aren't very comfortable yet but it's been disappoint­ing." 
Even though Notre Dame struggled in Florida, Schrage was confident his team is on its way to success. 
"We got a lot accomplished and found out a lot more about ourselves [in Florida]," Schrage said. "We've had a great record at Frank Eck in the past and it will be fun getting back." 
Notre Dame returns to South Bend today to take on Cleveland State at 5:05 for the beginning of a seven-game homestand. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 



page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 20, 2007 



Luck 
continued from page 24 
patience to attack Notre Dame's 2-3 zone, and when they did find open shots, those shots would not fall. Notre Dame's full court pressure, which it used early in the game and then to erase a 20-point second half deficit did not force bunches of turnovers, but it did slow down the Eagles and disrupt the pace of their offense. But the Irish stayed in the press late in the game and Winthrop was sudden­ly able to break it with more ease and get down the floor quicker on Notre Dame's increasingly fatigued legs. Maybe the Irish coaching staff feared an onslaught like the one in the beginning of the half. 
When the Irish took off the defensive pressure early in the second half, the Eagles made a big run. Winthrop hit 10 of their first 12 shots and opened up the 20-point advantage on the Irish. 
The Irish went back to the press and battled back, but Winthrop center Craig Bradshaw made sure Notre Dame went home. Whether he posted up or came off screens on the inside, Bradshaw scored at will in the second half. Bradshaw had 16­second half points. 
Still, a little tough luck imped­ed the Irish comeback. 
It was tough luck when the officials missed a moving screen set on Irish forward Rob Kurz, then proceeded to call a touch foul on him for his fifth as Bradshaw laid it in for a three­point play. Kurz, who was Notre Dame's main post threat all day, had to take his 13 points and ten rebounds to the bench with 3:58 left. 
Winthrop seemingly got to every loose ball and received most of the controversial calls down the stretch. The officials whistled the Irish for a number of loose ball fouls, but the Irish benefited from the officiating as 
well. 
But when you are trying to come back from 20 points down in the second half, it helps to get a majority of these calls. 
In the end, however, it was not the officiating that cost Notre Dame the game. 
The stat sheet still says the Irish were 4-of-22 from beyond the arc and 4-of-13 from the charity stripe. Irish guards Russell Carter and Colin Palls could not ignite Notre Dame, shooting a combined 2-of-16 from three-point land in their fmal game for the Irish. Carter could not find his stroke all after­noon, while Winthrop guard Michael Jenkins frustrated Falls and made him rush his shot coming off of screens. 
It is true that Winthrop shot an equally abysmal 1 0-of-19 from the free throw line, but the Eagles had that spurt at the beginning of the second half that gave them the lead. The Irish never had that burst of brilliant shooting when it seems as though they can defeat any team in the country. It came against Georgetown in the first half last Friday, and against Syracuse ­twice -but not against Winthrop. 
The old cliche says, "You live by the three, you die by the three." But the Irish nearly proved even if you live by it, you can sometimes live without it. If the Irish "lived" with just one or two more threes falling, they could have advanced to the next round. Instead, Carter and Falls will not play another minute in a Notre Dame uniform and the Irish have to sit through another off-season wondering what could have been. 
Tough luck. 
The views ofthis column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris Hine at 
served them well in. the l"irst half-and held Winthrop without 
"Once we switched 
a field goal for more than eight minutes. to the press, we "I guess there was a changed the leprechaun guarding 
atmosphere a little
the rim," Marshall 
said. bit and got our Brey said the press energy back." focused his team and threw Winthrop of its 
Mike Brey
rhythm. 
Irish coach
"Once we switched to the press, we changed the atmos­

,;,; ,:< / ~,<. j· , '<,:,,<::,, lr:ootjrutttil::n:t lram:ooaiw tn:Jti 11it~r:mwl®wr :\\:
.:­
CONNECTED FOR UFE" 
1¢2007 Jo:>ta11s,lnr. P11nted111USA O~·O:i94 lf1U9071 
three seniors and two juniors in the starting lineup ­
won out in the end. 
"They looked like the men and wn looked like a younger group," he said. 

Bradshaw dominated inside on bqth ends of the lloor, adding six rebounds and four assists to his Irish with 14 points despite shooting 6-for-16 from the floor and just 2-for-10 from behind the 3-point arc. 
As a team, Notre Dame made only four of its 22 three-point attAmpts. 
"We got some pretty good looks, especially Colin, and we'll take that most games because usually we'll make them," Brey said. "But they were defending us pretty well. They reacted very quickly defensively." 
The Irish also struggled at the free throw line, going just 4-for­13. 
Junior forward Rob Kurz, the only one of Notre Dame's three captains that will return next season, said once the shock of the loss wears ofi, the Irish will look back on this year -which included their first trip to the NCAAs since 2003 -as a suc­cess. 
"Our goal this season was to get back to the NCAA Tournament," he said. "We defi­nitely have something to build on." 
The Irish finished the season with a 24-8 record. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Eagles 
continued from page 24 
this game, let's makP them come back to it,"' Brey said. 
Sixth-sfledAd Notrp, Dame stormed back. The Irish switchnd to a full court prnss -which had Irish would see. 

The Eagles jumped right back out in front on two of center Craig Bradshaw's 24 points, then got a three from guard Chris Gaynor to take a four point advantage and hit their free throws in the final minute to pre­serve the win. 
Brey said Winthrop's Pxperi­ence -the Eagles featured 
phere a little bit and got our energy back," he said. 
During the Eagles drought, Notre Dame went on a 22-3 run to pull within one at 57-56. With 
2:20 left in the game, the Irish took a 63-62 lead on a hook shot by forward Luke Harangody. 
But that was the last lead the team-high point total. The senior from New Zealand also held 1-Iarangody to just four points on 2-for-6 shooting. 
Eagles guard Torrell Martin added a double-double, scoring 20 points and dragging down 11 rebounds. 
Senior guard Colin Falls led the 


vs. Cleveland State 
Tues. March 20 @ 5:05pm 
vs. W. Michigan Weds. March 21@ 5:05pmEck Stadium 

Tuesday, March 20, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROISSANTWORLD 
you SHOULD SE.E.N 8LAI-\ SLAI-\ &.AI-\ t>o 'be Do DRuNK. !SLAH &LA\-\. 

BLAcK DoG 

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
Ht>."T A t?, UNCH OF WE.I~t:x:>S. WONDER.. WHAT \1-\e.'{'RE "TA.LI'.Ir-Jb ABoul. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
LIAMMORAN 


Potowami Indians who once inhabited this fertile land. When the great sun burns high in the sky and the ambient temperature reaches 13a centigrade, the townspeople gather Ugg boots, sweatpants and other objects of opression. We cast them into the fire. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Computer character set, for short 6 Fruity alcoholic brand 1 o Alternative to 
whole or 2% 14 Bombards with bogus offers, 
say 15 Land of Esau's 
descendants 16 Office missive 17 Booze 19 John, in Russia 20 Followers of 
appetizers 21 Comic's gimmick 
23 Sport_ (vehicle) 24 Chemistry 
Nobelist Otto 25 Hopalong Cassidy player William 28 Sparked, as curiosity 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

WILLSHORTZ 
55 Church candle lighter 58 Some cowboys 62 Bearded animal 63 Czar's treasure 65 Yalta cont. locale 66 Airs 67 Not exactly a brainiac 68 Soul singer 
James 69 Preacher's reading 
70 Uncool sorts 
DOWN 1 Tennis's Arthur 2 Approximately 
1,600 feet, for the Brooklyn Bridge 
3 Skipper: Abbr. 4 Not wise 5 ''The best 
to come" 6 Chief Olympian 
27 Comment to a 40 Like most 56 How much to 7 Mean Amin goner potato chips pay 8 Soft shoes, 
29 Offshoot of the 57 Life of Riley
45 Up to now
informally 
Winnebagos 
58 Lady's escort
9 Mustachioed 49 Costume
30 Milk purchase 
59 Crown prince,
Don of classic 
52 Hardly a
31 In a lather e.g.
films 
moderate
33 Fervency so Prayer start 
1 0 Most common 
54 Started eating 
U.S. surname 34 Yummy 61 Some NCO's 
11 "Apollo 13" 38 Serve as a 55 Malarial 64 Go a few co-star mediator symptom rounds 12 Colorful 
computer For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a13 "Monty Python credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
and the Holy Annual subscriptions are available for the best of SundayGrail" figure crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
18 Wranglers, e.g. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
22 "It Be You" 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 25 nova 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 26 Not this or that solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
JUMBLE 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
BOANT 
± 
tSICCEN

J (] 
www.jumble.com
tFRAGEO t
J rJ J 
1 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 


WHAT A SCULPTOR DOES TO C.REATE A STATUE FROM A STONE SLAB. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: 

"r I I I I I I J" IT rI I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: JUICE ADAGE UPKEEP PACKET Answer: What Dad looked forward to when Junior finished piano practice -PIECE PEACE 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Bruce Willis, 52; Glenn Close. 60; Ursula Andress, 71; Phyllis Newman, 74 
Happy Birthday: Change will continue to map out your future. You may feel like it's time to slow down, settle down or just stop but you must go a little further in order to reach your destiny. You are finally heading into a period where you can utilize everything you have learned. At year's end. you will see the light at the end of the tunnel. Your numbers are I, 3, 16, 20, 37, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April19): If it has to do with business or learning, hop to it and go the distance. Don't be afraid to ask questions. You will get support from someone who is experienced or much older than you. *** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Just when you think you have a handle on your life, someone you least expect will pull the rug out from underneath you. You may not be able to make gains today but you can certainly protect yourself from losses. Beware of unrealistic promises.*** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): As long as you aren't too quick to judge or react. things will fall into place. Don't put up with something you don't approve of. Say what you think and you'll find you have more clout than you realize.**** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You don't have to give in to emotional blackmail or create a melodrama to get what you want. Just be honest and innovative. You may not like change but you are overdue for a major overhauL ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may feel good about the way things are going but you have to seal-the-deal. Follow through, stay on top of things, ask questions and learn all you can. You will be successful. Love is in the stars. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A little less work will save you a lot of grief when it comes to your personal life. Take time out to let the people in your life who truly count know you are there for them. Plan something special you can enjoy together. *** LlliRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'll be drawn to someone today who will get your mind working creatively. You can jump-start a project you have only dreamed about. A partnership is looking very good. Make your position very clear. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): As long as you don't take someone else's word or ideas over your own, you will be fine. Trust in your own judgment for a change. A chance to do things differently will draw attention to the project. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may think you have everything in order but watch out if you haven't been completely upfront. Emotional matters must be resolved or you will end up losing. Being fair will lead the way to completion. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't let love cloud your vision. You can't afford to make a mistake. Change will be necessary but it's the decisions you make and the direction you go that will carve your future. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Aggression is not the answer. Hold your temper and let others make mistakes. Take a wait-and-see attitude. Things are not as they appear. Some adjustments will have to be made. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may be feeling a little emotional or overwhelmed by everything going on around you. Try not to show your dismay but instead, rise to the occasion. Don't force your will on others or exaggerate the situation. *** 
Birthday Baby: You have a heart of gold and the wisdom of someone who has already experienced life. You are insightful, proactive and compassionate. You are willing to do what others will not if you believe in the end result. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

32 Vampire's form 35 Offshoot of the Winnebago tribe 36 Sandwich go­with 37 Princess' 
accessory 39lgnores 41 Isn't anymore 42 How much 
music is sold nowadays 
43 Stearns & Foster competitor 
44 Mars' Greek counterpart 46 Horn sound 47"_you kidding?" 48 Suffered defeat at the hands of 50 Professor 'iggins 51 Ballerina's garb 53 Yalta cont. attendee 


THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Tuesday, March 20, 2007 page 24 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
After topping Cal, Irish get Tar Heels in NCAAs 
ByJAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
PITTSBURGH -The last time the Irish took the floor, they jumped out to a 12-2 lead over eighth-seeded California and held on for a 62-59 win in the first round of the NCAA Tournament. This time, it 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Carter, Falls can't complete comeback against Winthrop 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
SPOKANE, Wash. -No. 16 Notre Dame erased a 20-point second half deficit but couldn't fmish off the comeback and fell 74-64 to No. 21 Winthrop in the first round of the NCAA Tournament Friday at Veterans Memorial Arena in Spokane, Wash. 
"It's a big win for our program, for our conference, and for the state of South Carolina," Eagles coach Gregg Marshall said. 
The win was Winthrop's first all-time NCAA Tournament victo­ry, and the first for the Big South conference. 
After leading 32-28 at halftime, the 11th-seeded Eagles (29-4) exploded out of the locker room, making 10 out of their first 12 shots in the second half and going on a 22-6 run to take a 54-34 lead with 13:15 to go. 
"They stepped up on defense," said Irish point guard Tory Jackson, who scored nine points. "We got frustrated and it started to go downhill." 
Down by 20, Irish coach Mike Brey called a timeout. "I told the guys, 'CBS has left 
see EAGLES/page 22 
won't be so easy. country this season, facing Carolina. 
Notre Dame (20-11, 10-6 Big seven ranked teams and 12 "[Tar Heels seniorl Ivory East) continues its tournament Tournament teams. But even Latta is an outstanding point run today against North though the Irish have played guard. She's somebody that we Carolina (31-3, 11-3 ACC)­two other one-seeds this sea­haven't really seen anybody the top seed of the Dallas son (a 78-54 loss at Tennessee like her," McGraw said. "But region -at 9:30 p.m. in the Dec. 30 and a 64-47 loss at certainly [earlier Irish oppo­Petersen Events Center in Connecticut Jan. 27), Irish nents] Rutgers and Connecticut Pittsburgh. coach Muffet McGraw still feels both have the type of players 
The Irish have played one of that they have yet to play as that North Carolina has." the toughest schedules in the complete a team as North North Carolina handily won 
Quiet exit 


HocKEY 
leers sent to Grand Rapids 
preparing for its first-round and will be joined by Boston 

By DAN MURPHY 
opponent in the regionals of University and Michigan

Sports Writer 
the NCAA Tournament this State in the region's other weekend. first round game. 

The celebration did not last The team met Sunday "It's one of those situations long for afternoon to watch the selec­where at this time of the year Notre Dame. See Also tion show live as a group. it doesn't really matter. but it 
Less than where they learned that they is nice to be able to stay in 
Irish Insider for

24 hours would be facing ofT with the the Midwest," senior captain after the coverage of Alabama-Hunstville Chargers T.J. Jindra said. Irish raised in the Grand Rapids, Mich., The Chargers, who
Notre Dame's

their cham­regional Friday at 5 p.m. The received an automatic bid to pionship CCHA title Irish were selected as one of the tournament after winning banner in four No. 1 seeds and the No. the College Ilockey Anwrica Detroit. the team was 2 overall team in the tourna­already back in South Bend, ment behind Minnesota -see NCAA/page 21 its first round game against 16-seed Prairie View A&M Sunday, taking a 20-point lead in the first four minutes en route to a 95-38 win. The Tar Heels not only won with ease, but also saved their starters' legs for the second round. Every Tar Heel played for 21 
see TOURNEY/page 21 

What it came down to was pretty simple 
SPOKANE, Wash. -"Tough luck." 
That's what Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said Friday afternoon to his players after a shot went in and out. It 
meant Brey approved of the shot selec­tion, but the shot just did not fall. 
Brey shout­ed that from the sidelines 


countless 
Chris Hine 

times in Notre Dame's 74-64 Sports Editor 
loss to Winthrop in the first round of the NCAA Tournament Friday. 
The bedrock of the Irish offense, perimeter shooting. failed Notre Dame to the tune of 4-of-22 from three-point land and an abominable 4-of-13 from the free throw line. If before the game, someone told any objec­tive commentator these would be Notre Dame's numbers from the floor, they would have to pick against the Irish and say they would not even be close against the more athletic Winthrop. 
But the Eagles had some "tough luck" of their own. In the first half, Winthrop lacked the 
see LUCK/page 22 
BASEBALL 

Team rallies to finish with four vvins in Fla. 
"We really tried to build off 
By FRAN TOLAN 

of that good win [against
Sports Writer 

Webber International]." Notre Dame coach Dave Schrage 
After two frustrating shutout said. losses in the three-game Notre Dame {8-9) put up four Clearwater Invitational. Notre runs in the ninth to force the Dame used its momentum from extra inning after three a to-inning, 11-8 victory over straight Irish batters stayed Webber International March 12 alive facing two-out, two-strike to win four of its last five situations. spring break contests in the Sunshine State. see FLORIDA/page 21 

