
THE 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
LGBTQ a-wareness -week starts 
Students will observe national day ofsilence 
By EMMA DRISCOLL News Writer 
Stand Against Hate, a week designed to spread awareness about issues faced by the les­bian, gay, bisexual, transgen­der and questioning (LGBTQ) community including harassment and discrimina­tion against LGBTQ individuals -begins today with the hope of bringing the issue back to the center of campus con­sciousness. 
The message against dis­crimination of members of the LGBTQ community is some­thing that week co-organizer Casey Scott feels is very important, especially for Notre Dame. 
"I think it's important because I think this issue often is overlooked and kind of just pushed to the side," she said. 
Scott said that the issues of hate and discrimination are critical in general, and at Notre Dame they are especial­ly significant for LGBTQ stu­dents because of the tension between the Catholic doctrine and homosexuality. 
"I think there are a lot of misconceptions between the two groups," she said. 
Fellow co-organizer Andy Magee said shedding light on discrimination is essential because many people do not know about it. 
"The best thing we can do to 
see WEEK/ page 3 
By KEN FOWLER and 
KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writers 
Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves became the 12th college official nation­wide identified as receiving compensation from a student loan company on the preferred lender list of the official's col­lege -and while ethical questions have been raised, Affleck-Graves said Sunday his case is different from the cases being investigated by New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo. 
Cuomo is investigating 
lender Citigroup, according to a report this weekend from Bloomberg News. 
Student Loan Corp. sought out Notre Dame and Affleck­Graves for the position, the executive vice president said. He said he communicated with University President Father John Jenkins, Director of Student Financial Strategies Joseph Russo and Vice President for Finance John Sejdinaj before accepting the position. 
"I spoke with Father John about it and went through the Financial Aid office and decid­ed that it would probably be a good thing for us to do," Affleck-Graves said. 
Affleck-Graves said he is not on the board of any other loan corporations and maintained that his situation is different than the positions college administrators under investi­gation have held. 
Unlike financial aid directors at other colleges under investi­gation, Affleck-Graves is not in the chain-of-command on stu­dent loan decisions. 
He noted that all decisions about financial aid and stu­dent loans are sent through Sejdinaj's office. 
"The key thing is what inter-
see LOANS/page 4 


Matt Phipps chosen as new leprechaun 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
There's a new leprechaun in town. 
Senior Kevin Braun, who served as the mascot for the Irish football team this past sea­son, handed over the title to jun­ior Matt Phipps, who on Friday won the competition to become the University's mascot. Phipps has also served on the varsity cheerleading squad for the past 3 years. 
Seven male students per­formed stunts, led cheers at mock pep rallies and conducted media interviews in front of more than 100 students and a panel of judges Friday at the Joyce Athletics and Convention Center to compete for the gig of varsity Leprechaun for 2007-08 school year. 
The Leprechaun has been the 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 118 MONDAY, APRIL16, 2007 


Aftleck-Graves on loan company board 
Executive vice president made $58,984 in eight months, but says position is not ethical conflict 
official mascot of Notre Dame since 1965. 
Before tryouts began, Phipps said that he was excited but nervous "because of the tough competition." But he was glad that he was at least assured a slot on the cheerleading team for the fall football season. 
"Even if it still doesn't work out," he said before the competi­tion. "I'll still be wearing poly­ester on the field." 
He, however, won't have to worry about that anymore. 
Also returning as the Leprechaun on the blue squad next year will be sophomore Juan Muldoon. 
Coincidentally, Phipps and Muldoon attended rival high schools in Dallas and have enjoyed their partnership on the cheerleading squad for the past two years. 
see TRYOUTS/page 3 


whether student loan compa­nies illegally offered bribes or kickbacks to financial aid directors at schools in order to remain on 
the school's preferred lender list or to earn a spot on the coveted directory. 
Affleck­Graves 


r e c e i v e d Affleck-Graves 
$58,984 in salary for eight months as a director for Student Loan Corporation, a lender affiliated with Notre Dame-preferred 

Hodges assumes new role 
Saint Mary's president, vice president take on duties as term starts 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
Since the Saint Mary's student government turnover occurred April 1, student body president Kim Hodges and vice pres­ident Kelly Payne have smoothly transitioned into their new roles. 
Hodges became the first black woman in the school's 152-year history ever to hold the position when she took office. She said she anticipates the upcoming year. 
"As a leader, I pray that I 
see HODGES/page 6 

Right to Life club hosts collegiate conference 
By AARON STEINER News Writer 
Students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Holy Cross and a host of other colleges convened at Notre Dame this weekend for the second annual Pro-Life Collegiate Conference, hosted by the Notre Dame Right to Life club. 
Starting on Friday, nationally recognized speakers spoke about "various issues dealing with life from conception to natural death" at venues across campus, said club president Mary Liz Walter, a junior. 
Walter said the conference ­focused on the theme "I came that they might have life" -is the second of four planned con­ferences targeted at college stu­dents. Each conference centers around one of four points of Pope John Paul Il's encyclical "Evangelium Vitae." 
"The response was extremely, overwhelmingly positive," Walter said. "The speakers gave many [students! insights that they had­n't thought of." 
Students from Midwestern col­leges including Purdue, Loyola (Chicago) and DePaul traveled to campus to join the strong contin­gent of pro-life students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross. Walter said atten­dance from students outside the area was greatly improved this year with and overall attendance 
see PRO-LIFE/page 6 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, April 16, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

This could get awkward 
I don't remember what I was doing on May 5 last year, but some­how I managed to miss National Make Out Day. Never having heard of such a holiday, I was surprised as I scrolled down my Facebook 
Bridget Gilloon 
newsfeed the other day to see that 25 or so of 
Photographer
my friends plan on attending this event. 
Since I haven't been invited yet (my fingers are still crossed), I clicked to find out where I could go to crash the party. Apparently, it is taking place everywhere in the world from midnight on May 5 to noon on May 6, with a break from 2 to 9 in the morning for most partici­pants at Notre Dame, of course. 
Personally, this holiday could not come at a better time. I have just recovered from mono, which gives me lifelong immunity to the disease. Also, I will be fleeing the country next semester, which could help prevent awkward situations. However, I can't help but think that National Make Out Day might be a scam created to spread diseases and encourage Notre Dame's infa­mous hook-up culture. Wait, never mind, I was just on the phone with my mom. 
But then again, is making-out really that dangerous? Aren't we in college to experience new things and learn from our mistakes? After all, we're only going to get older and wiser ... hopefully. Maybe someone will meet their future spouse on May 5 or at the very least walk away with some fond memo­ries of when they were young, stu­pid and unattached. If you happen to be attached, this could be great holiday to spend with your signifi­cant other, because they will find out if you "celebrate" it with some­one else. If you're newly single take this as an opportunity to return to the dating scene with thousands of willing participants, but remember that you will have to live with the consequences of your choices, and the pictures that your friends will show you the next day. 
For the 147,501 people who have already RSVP'd for the event, I have some advice. Since this holiday coincides with the more popular Cinco de Mayo, remember to brush your teeth or pop an Altaid after you enjoy some burritos, enchiladas or those delicious South Dining Hall churros. Also, just because you are anxious to celebrate the holiday doesn't mean everyone else will share your enthusiasm. Already over 30,000 people have declined their invitations. Some more tips would be to check a prospective partner for wedding or engagement rings and symptoms of mono, both of which could lead to a trip to Health Services. 
Well, I think I need to go spread the news that National Make Out Day is not for a few more weeks, especially to the couple on the couch across from me right now in Lafun. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Bridget Gilloon at bgilloon@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards irself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE RECESS ACTIVITY? 


Sandy McShea Betsy Dilla Marisa Villano 
freshman freshman freshman O'Neill Lyons Lyons 
"I was a fat kid, "Red rover, "Gossip on the 
so I engaged in endlessly monkey bars. " minimal without doubt. " physical activity. " 

BRIDGET GILLOONffhe Observer 

Junior Stephen Barbera, left, and junior Kevin Crowley race through the inflatable "Rat Race" on Friday. This obstacle course was one of several inflatable games that filled South Quad in celebration of Alumni Hall's annual Wake Week. 
OFFBEAT 

Friday the 13th Is lucky for woman 
LA CROSSE, Wis. -Friday the 13th turned out to be lucky for one Wisconsin woman. 
Sara Wrobel narrowly missed a 15-to-20 ton piece of construction equipment that became unhinged from a dump truck and fell in front of her as she backed out of her driveway. 
She said she walked out of her house a few minutes early Friday and pulled out of her driveway, and as she waited for her garage door to close the equipment -a rock screener -fell. 
"I heard this weird noise, and the thing crashed right in front of me," said Wrobel, who is pregnant and due any day. 
The screen became unhinged from the dump truck, hit a telephone pole, flipped over the embankment and landed on the driveway, she said. 
Restaurant that sold snake closes 
STOCKTON, Calif.-Local diners with adventurous palates have less than two months to try rattlesnake, alligator and other exotic meats. 
The restaurant Taboo by the Delta is closing its doors June 1 when its owner retires after 10 years in busi­ness. 

Eleanor Huntington  Courtney Ball  Juliana Hoffelder  
freshman Cavanaugh  freshman Cavanaugh  freshman Cavanaugh  
"Four-square fo' sho."  'Tag, because I liked chasing the boys."  "' liked to race the boys."  

Along with gators and rat­tlesnake, Taboo served shark, frog legs and turtle. 
The name of the restaurant reflects the hidden allure of "things that are forbidden. Things that would hurt you," owner Jesse "Boo" Burkett said. "People just buy into it." 
Burkett said he stopped serving kangaroo and black bear in 2004 after the California Department of Fish and Game told him it was illegal. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::J: 
!;: 
LLI 
i)~ 
...1 
c( (,) 


0 

HIGH 53 HIGH 45 HIGH 59 HIGH 53
.... 

LOW 32 LOW 26 LOW 36 LOW 35 
IN BRIEF 

The Notre Dame Bands Chamber Ensembles concert will take place tonight at 7 
p.m. in Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. It is a free event, but tickets are required. The Brass Ensemble explores a wide range of musical genres including Renaissance, Baroque and orchestral tran­scriptions. 
There will be cholesterol screenings tomorrow from 
7:30 to 10 a.m. in 234 Grace Hall. No appointment neces­sary. 
Notre Dame women's soft­ball will play a doubleheader against Western Michigan tomorrow at 3 p.m. at Ivy Field. Admission is free. 
Notre Dame baseball will play Toledo tomorrow at 6:05 
p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Notre Dame women's soft­ball will play Ball State Wednesday at 5 p.m. at Ivy Field. Admission is free. 
The Ballroom Dance Club will host "Merengue with Ramzi Bualuan" Wednesday from 8 to 10:30 p.m. at 205 Rockne. Dancers of all skill levels are invited. Beginners are asked to come from 8 to 9, social dance from 9 to 9:30, and advanced from 9:30 to 
10:30. The cost is $4 for the night or $35 for the semester. The club is open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students, faculty and staff. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

i) 
HIGH 56 HIGH 63 LOW 38 LOW 47 
Atlanta 68 I 44 Boston 44 I 36 Chicago 58 I 32 Denver 56 I 34 Houston 79 I 56 Los Angeles 70 I 56 Minneapolis 48 129 New York 48 I 38 Philadelphia 50 I 36 Phoenix 71 I 57 Seattle 54 I 42 St. Louis 54 I 38 Tampa 74 I 54 Washington 54 138 
.--------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, April 16, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Tryouts 
continued from page 1 
''I'm thrilled for Phipps. He's a fabulous guy. a great leader for the team and has the energy to do it," Muldoon said. ''I'm also really excited about the turnout; I couldn't be happier. We're both looking forward to working together next year." 
The remaining five men who competed included junior Tyler Elson, sophomores Rob Carroll and Brian DeSplinter and freshmen Dan Collins and Craig Bentzen. 
Each contestant had his own unique reasons for wanting to be elected. 
For DeSplinter, the position has been his dream for over a decade. His inspiration came 15 years ago when his brother brought him 
to his first football game. ''I'm thrilled for because it gives us an idea "I feel like it's all com­of who's ready to fill the
Phipps. He's a 
ing together," he said. shoes of an already great 
fabulous guy, a great
"Ever since I came here, Leprechaun," sophomore I've wanted to be the leader for the team Erin Brennan said. Leprechaun. I was going Though Braun has set
and has the energy 
to try out last year, but my high standards for Phipps
to do it."
beard wasn't fully grown and Muldoon, both feel out." that they are ready for the DeSplinter's passion for Juan Muldoon challenge. the position wasn't ''I'll definitely be flipping 
blue squad leprechaun 
ignored by his fans. Like the other contenders, he amassed a base that came out to support his efforts. Students came dressed as lep­rechauns, bearing posters and taking pic­tures of their friends. 
"I rooted for Brian because he's so enthusiastic and always bouncing off the walls," freshman Cathy Bowers said. "I think he would have been one of the best Leprechauns ever." 
Still, all seven were aware of the tough competition. At about 6 p.m., head coach of the cheerleading squad, Jo Minton, wel­comed fans and introduced the panel of judges. 
"We felt that because the Leprechaun is so important, we need to have represen­tatives from all across campus judge for us," she said. 
The first challenge was to conduct "mock pep rallies," as if it were in prepa­ration for the Irish's first home game ­against Georgia Tech this coming season. 
The next task was the media interview to see how each Leprechaun would speak on behalf of the Irish in public. First, the contestants had to introduce head football coach Charlie Weis, followed by Heisman Trophy winner Paul Hornung at a Pep Rally. All seven contenders impressed crowds with their knowledge about both individuals, seeming to intensifY the com­petition. 
Next, they had to speak as if they were on Good Morning America wanting to wish the country "Happy St. Patrick's Day" from Spokane, Wash., at the NCAA basketball tournament. 
"I like how they did a 
variety of scenarios 
and doing acrobatics all 
over the field next year, and be a little bit more involved in the stunts that cheerleaders do," Phipps said. "I think it will be a lot more fun for the crowd to see these things." 
For the rest of the men who tried out, Phipps encouraged them to keep trying at it to achieve the dream, since it is a posi­tion worth pursuing. 
"Even if I hadn't make it, I loved the experience of trying out, and that one experience was nothing less than amaz­ing," he said. "Everybody did a great job, and I hope the younger guys will try out again because it's an experience that defi­nitely helps them." 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 

Week 

continued from page 1 
help change discrimina­tion that is apparent on our campus and in our society is to bring atten­tion to some of the dis­crimination that does exist," he said. "Because a lot of times, discrimina­tion happens and people aren't aware of it. ... Specifically, LGBTQ com­munities are called silent minorities because peo­ple can't look at them and identify them." 
Magee said many mem­bers of the LGBTQ com­munity feel marginalized. "It's easy to think 'we don't discriminate here' or 'I personally don't dis­criminate, but sometimes that is in fact not the case," Magee said. "I think it's important to raise awareness that these are issues that still do affect people today." 
The week will have three components to address LGBTQ aware­ness in different ways. The Stand Against Hate campaign is a poster and T-shirt campaign "spear­headed" by student gov­ernment, Scott said. Posters will be placed around campus and T­shirts will be distributed on Tuesday at the Fieldhouse Mall. 
The poster and T-shirt campaign is intended to be "visible" all around campus. "We can get [it] to every corner on cam­pus," Magee said. 
In order to expand Student Government's plans for the Stand Against Hate campaign into a week-long effort toward awareness, Scott said that the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students added a Holocaust memorial and included the Day of Silence -a nationwide, student-led protest held every April 18 to increase awareness about harassment, dis­crimination and bullying that LGBTQ students face in schools and the silence that they experience as a result, according to its Web site. 
The Day of Silence is an "interesting move­ment in and of itself in the way that it uses silence to speak very loudly," Magee said. 
The silence serves as a "symbolic action to rep­resent all of those who were silenced by harass­ment, specifically les­bian, gay, bisexual, transgender people and their allies," Scott said. 
Those who choose to participate in the Day of Silence can carry a· card and wear a button to explain why they ·are not speaking. The items will be distributed today and tomorrow in both dining halls and LaFortune from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. 
The Holocaust memori­al will be set up on South Quad Tuesday and will display symbols used by Nazis during the Holocaust to label and identify their victims, Scott said. 
Since one of the Core Council's goals this year was to "reach out and include as many groups as possible in some of our events," the Holocaust memorial "is a way to bring attention to discrimination against a large number of classes of people all at once," Magee said. 
There are various cam­pus groups contributing to the week. The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students, AllianceND, the History Department, the Sociology Department, Student Government, the Gender Relations Center, the Jewish Club of Notre Dame, the Graduate Student Union, Feminist Voice and the Progressive Student Alliance are con­tributing, Scott said. 
"So many people are getting behind this issue and taking up this cause. ... This isn't something that can be pushed aside," she said. 
Ultimately, Scott hopes that the message of awareness of the exis­tence of discrimination reaches people. 
''I'm just hoping to bring people's attention to it," Scott said. "I know you can't change people's minds, but it plants a seed. That's a good first step." 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 16, 2007 
re-evaluate the position and its they're on that they represent because we work regularly ferred lenders guarantee us benefit to Notre Dame as the University's students in with them, if a student has a that we'll have the lowest rate


Loans 
continued from page 1 
ests I would have over any decision that got taken, so I basically recused myself from all of those decisions," Affleck­Graves said. ''I'll review this with Father John. To the extent that when we went on, we thought that we could influence things in a positive way, as long as we can continue to do that, then, yes, we'll stay on the board." 
Affleck-Graves is not the first Notre Dame administrator to sit on the board of a student loan company. University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh was a director of the Chase Manhattan Bank prior to and after the creation of Notre Dame's preferred lender list in the early 1980s, Russo said Sunday. Chase was one of the lenders on Notre Dame's origi­nal preferred lender list, devel­oped in 1981. Russo, who helped create the list soon after he arrived at Notre Dame in 1978, said he was not aware that Hesburgh was a director at Chase when he was survey­ing the top lenders for the list. 
Chase was picked, Russo said, because it offered some of the best services in the country. 
A conflict of interest? 
Russo said Affleck-Graves has no influence on Notre Dame's preferred lender list. The pre­ferred lender list was created, Russo said, more than 25 years ago, long before Affleck-Graves was at the University. The six lenders Notre Dame lists as its preferred lenders were chosen because they had the best serv­ices, he said. The University does not receive any "monetary revenue" from any of the lenders. including Citibank. 
Husso said Citibank is the "single largest provider" of stu­dent loans at Notre Dame. 
"It is our responsibility to find the very best for our students, and Citibank does that," he said. 
Affleck-Graves' position since last May has not changed the Financial Aid offices' services "one iota," he said. 

But Notre Dame professor Father Oliver Williams, who teaches courses in business ethics, said he would advise that Affleck-Graves resign from the board because his status as a member leads to the appear­ance of wrongdoing, even though he doesn't believe Affleck-Graves is guilty of any unethical behavior. 
"John Affleck-Graves, as [well as] anyone in the admin­istration, is paid to have the best interest of our students at heart. The conflict of interest is when someone gives you $50,000, you're interested in getting $50,000 next year, per­haps," he said. "In theory, that's why there is a conflict of interest." 
Williams said he advises peo­ple in big corporations to avoid not only wrongdoing but also the appearance of it. 
"The reason for that is, the problem is you are trying to have an ethic, corporate cul­ture in any organization, par­ticularly an organization like Notre Dame," he said. "So you don't want anyone to even have the idea that there might be wrongdoing." 

Affleck-Graves said he does not plan to resign from his position with Student Loan Corp. He will, however, contin­ue to discuss the overall stu­dent loan investigation with Jenkins, he said. The two will Cuomo's investigation contin­ues and Congress considers legislation that would restrict -or even abolish -private lending or preferred lender lists. 
University spokesman Don Wycliff said senior officers in the administration are required to fill out a conflict of interest statement once a year, detail­ing "any business associations or other things that they or even their close family mem­bers have that may pose a con­flict of interests." 
Wycliff said the statements go to the Audit and Advisory Services Office, which reports to Jenkins and the audit com­mittee of the Board of Trustees. He said any remediation the Audit and Advisory Services Office suggests is sent to Jenkins and the audit commit­tee. Wycliff said he was unsure who held ultimate authority to require an officer to release a business holding because of conflict-of-interest concerns. 
And while Affleck-Graves said he sees no conflict of inter­est in his directorship with Student Loan Corp., other con­siderations led him to prevent a similar relationship with anoth­er financial institution. 
On March 30, 1st Source Corporation announced that Affleck-Graves removed his nam·e from consideration as one of five candidates for the company's board of directors. 1st Source offers student loans but is not on Notre Dame's list of six preferred lenders. 
"That was a completely dif­ferent situation," Affleck­Graves says. 
Affleck-Graves said the University's "direct banking" with 1st Source-while it does not use Student Loan Corp. as its bank for capital -caused his withdrawal from considera­tion. He said 1st Source's offer­ing of student loans did not fac­tor into the decision. 
Lender relationships 
A spokesman for Sen. Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.) told Bloomberg News that the sena­tor would introduce legislation barring any employee of a col­lege from participating on the board of a student loan compa­ny. 
As the debate continues, however, Affleck-Graves said he questioned government intervention in the lending industry. 
''I'm a little concerned with where the legislation is going to go because if we deal with 80 or 90 banks, it's very difficult to get any of those banks to give you a preferred rate for your students," Affleck-Graves said. "As long as the students are looked after, I think that's fair." 
Affleck-Graves said his posi­tion on the board allows Notre Dame an influence on the cor­poration's decision-making process for setting rates, offer­ing new products and restruc­turing loan policies. 
"On all of those, I can give them some insight on what stu­dents need, what students want," he said. 
Affleck-Graves said several employees in the Financial Aid Office serve on advisory board for student loan corporations -but all in non-paying posi­tions. 
"If the industry's not allowed to talk to financial aid officers about what students need when they come into a loan office, that seems a little strange to me," he said. "And I trust the people in our Financial Aid office in those advisory council positions that 
those fully." problem, if an issue arises in the country -or at least Affleck-Graves reiterated the regarding payment, we have a match it." 
University's support for the strong relationship with them. I 
existence of preferred lender think that's a tremendous serv-Contact Ken Fowler at 
lists. ice," he said. "Some of our kfowlerl@nd.eduandKaitlynn "With these six companies, relationships with our pre-Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

Saint Mary's College Center for Spirituality 
2007 Endowed Spring Lecture Series 
Tuesday, March 6,2007 4:00 r.M.,Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall SpiritUalityfor a Globalizing World Vincent-Miller;Ph.D. 
Associate Professor,Theology,Georgetown University, Washington, D.C. 
Thursday,March 29,2007 7:00 P.M., Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall Spirituality and Sexuality:The Marriage ofEros and Grace JamesD.Whitehead, Ph.D.,and Evelyn Eaton Whitehead, Ph.D. 
Faculty at Loyola University Chicago and at Fudan Uni'versity, Shanghai 
Saint~'s Collegg 
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 
Center for Spirituality www.saintrnarys.edu/-cts (574) 284-4636 E-mail: astrotma@saintmarys.edu 

Arts and Letters Students Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors 


ORLD & NATION 
Monday, April 16, 2007 CotvWILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Ecuador votes for stron!! executive 
GUAYAQUIL, Ecuador -Leftist President Rafael Correa scored a major victory Sunday as Ecuadoreans voted overwhelmingly to sup­port his ambitious plan to remake the nation's system of government and weaken its discred­ited Congress, an exit poll showed. 
Voters across this small Andean nation, from highland Indians in ponchos to fishermen in villages along its Pacific coast, turned out to cast ballots on the need for a special assembly to rewrite the constitution -a measure many hope will bring economic improvement to their lives. 
An exit poll by CEDATOS-Gallup showed that 
78.1 percent of voters approved the election of a constitutional assembly while 11.5 percent rejected the proposal and 10.4 spoiled their ballots or cast blank ones. Correa enjoys a 70 percent approval rating and pollsters predicted a majority would vote in favor of the referendum in a country long plagued by political instability and poverty. 
Anti-Putin protestors routed by police 
ST. PETERSBURG, Russia -Riot police beat and detained dozens of anti-Kremlin demonstrators Sunday on a second day of protests that tested the weak opposition's ability to challenge widely popular President Vladimir Putin. 
As in Moscow a day earlier, only a few thousand people turned out in St. Petersburg to criticize the government. Opposition lead­ers called that a heartening response in the face of the huge police forces massed against both rallies. 
Putin's foes said the harsh handling of demonstrators, who included many elderly people, would fuel a growing sense that the leader is strangling democracy. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Gonzalez claims 'nothing to hide' 
WASHINGTON -Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, fighting to save his job, said in pre­pared Senate testimony Sunday he has "nothing to hide" in the firings of eight feder­al prosecutors but claimed a hazy memory about his involvement in them. 
Vice President Dick Cheney reaffirmed White House support for the attorney gener­al -but left it to Gonzales to defend himself to lawmakers who have called for his resig­nation. 
In his 25-page statement, Gonzales apolo­gized for embarrassing the eight U.S. attor­neys and their families by letting their ousters erupt into a political firestorm that has engulfed the Justice Department since January. He maintained the firings were not improper, but said he remembers having only an indirect role in the plans beyond approving them. 
"I am sorry for my missteps that have helped to fuel the controversy," he said. 
Dlinois man charged with kids' deaths 
QUINCY, Ill. -A man was charged with setting a house on fire in western Illinois early Sunday and killing five children, police said. 
Four other people, including a fire fighter burned on his face, were injured in the blaze. The bodies of four boys and a girl -ages 8 months to 10 years -were found on the second story and were likely family members, officials said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
High-speed chase leaves one dead 
CIIESTEHTON -An accident following a high-speed police chase killed a person early Sunday morning. 
Indiana State Police were notified by the Porter County Sheriff's Department dispatch center that an officer was pursuing a suspect driving eastbound on Interstate 94 from the Burns Harbor exit just after 6:30 a.m., according to an ISP release. 
According to a preliminary ISP investiga­tion, a Burns Harbor, Ind. officer had located a person allegedly involved in a disturbance call, and the person took off in their vehicle. 
JORDAN 

IAEA chief tours Arab countries 
Middle East nations pledge to consider peaceful nuclear programs in future 
Associated Press 

AMMAN, Jordan-The chief U.N. nuclear watchdog on Sunday wrapped up a tour of the Middle East to offer support to nations interested in developing peaceful atomic energy pro­grams despite the interna­tional faceoff with Iran over suspicions it is pursuing nuclear weapons. 
Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Jordan, Turkey and the smaller Arab states around the Persian Gulf all have said they will study the fea­sibility of building civilian programs for generating electricity with nuclear reac­tors. 
During a meeting Sunday, Jordan's King Abdullah II told Mohamed E!Baradei, head of the International Atomic Energy Agency, that his kingdom needs to diver­sify its sources of energy, especially with oil prices ris­ing. 
The king promised that Jordan, which imports near­ly all of its oil, would be a model in the peaceful devel­opment of nuclear energy if it decided to go ahead. 
The official Petra news 
agency quoted E!Baradei as 
saying his "agency was 
ready to help Jordan to ben­
efit from nuclear energy for 
peaceful purposes." He said While none of the Mideast country that strictly follows "Everybody's going for 
the IAEA would dispatch a nations expressing an inter­the Nuclear Nonproliferation nuclear programs." 
team to Jordan next week to est in nuclear power has Treaty is free to develop a Israeli Foreign Ministry 
look into its plans. publicly cited Iran's alleged civilian power program. The spokesman Mark Regev 
Earlier in his trip, ambition to acquire atomic U.S. offered to help Egypt declined to comment Sunday E!Baradei offered similar weapons -a charge Tehran with nuclear technology about the interest expressed support to the oil-rich Gulf denies -some analysts after it announced plans in by Jordan, Egypt and others Cooperation Council -think the announcements September to revive a moth­in acquiring nuclear pro­Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, are intended as a warning to balled nuclear program. grams. United Arab Emirates, the Iranians about the dan­Jordan's king announced But, he added, "Israel is Qatar, Bahrain and Oman -gers of a regional arms race. his plan to study a nuclear concerned that Iranian which said in November that Energy experts say any program in January in an nuclear program is not only they would consider starting significant Arab nuclear interview with the Israeli a direct threat to regional a joint nuclear program for program would probably newspaper Haaretz. It was security, but will also lead to peaceful purposes. take years, and some are assumed he chose an Israeli a larger nuclear prolifera­
ElBaradei said Thursday skeptical that cash-strapped newspaper to make clear tion in the region, which in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, countries like Egypt and the program was not direct­would be to no one's bene­that he recognized "the Jordan have the resources ed at the Jewish state. fit." necessity of the Gulf for such facilities. Israel is widely believed to Key Arab countries such Cooperation Council to own The U.S. government have nuclear weapons of its as Jordan, Saudi Arabia and this (nuclear) energy at the opposes the spread of own, but has never officially Egypt also are concerned by current time despite owning nuclear weapons in the confirmed that it does. Iran's nuclear ambitions, other energy sources like oil region, but officials in "The rules have changed," although Tehran insists its and gas." Washington have said any Abdullah told Haaretz. program is peaceful. 

IRAQ 

Sadr followers threaten withdrawal 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -Cars, minibuses and roadside bombs exploded in Shiite Muslim enclaves across the city Sunday, killing at least 45 people in sectarian violence that defied the Baghdad security crackdown, while a radical anti-U.S. cleric raised a new threat to Iraq's government. 
Two officials close to Shiite cleric Muqtada al-Sadr said his followers would quit their six Cabinet posts Monday -a move that could leave Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki's already weak administration without enough support to stay in power. 
And in a rare gesture of dissent from America's partners in Baghdad, dozens of Iraqi policemen demon­strated in front of their station, accus­ing U.S. troops of treating them like "animals" and "slaves." 
The U.S. military command announced the combat deaths of three more Americans. Two British service members died when their hel­icopters crashed in midair north of Baghdad, and hours later a U.S. heli­copter was hit by ground fire near Mosul but landed safely with no injuries. 
Six powerful bombs, gunfire and artillery blasts enveloped Baghdad in a near-constant din that seemed a setback for the 9-week-old U.S.-Iraqi military campaign to pacify the capi­tal. 
U.S. commanders previously cited a slight decrease in violence since the crackdown began Feb. 14, but urged patience for what they warned would be a long, tough fight. 
"Although we're making steady progress ... we have a long way to go," Rear Adm. Mark Fox, a U.S. mili­tary spokesman in Baghdad, told reporters Sunday. "We will continue to face attacks from those who attempt to tear down what the Iraqi people have worked so hard to build." 
page 6 
Pro-life 
continued from page 1 
throughout the weekend was strong. 
The event's first speaker, Father Tom Euteneuer, was a favorite, Walter said. Euteneuer, a Notre Dame alum­nus and current president of Human Life International, recently gained attention after appearing on radio personality Sean Hannity's conservative talk show. Walter said he 

was well "The response was Notre Dame is received by all extremely, a great in attendance. Catholic uni­
overwhelmingly
Another versity."'
positive. The speakers 
speaker, Daniel Walter said McConchie, gave many [students] that as a executive direc­whole, the
insights that they
tor of conference
hadn't thought of"
Americans gave partici­United for Life, pants a stimu­posed interest­Mary Liz Walter lating look at 
ing questions pro-life issues
president
about the legal­and gave
Notre Dame Right to Life
ities of abor­audiences new 
issues facing a fictional single woman who becomes pregnant, was also screened Saturday evening. 
Walter said it is extremely important for Notre Dame to host such a conference as many other colleges see Notre Dame as leader in pro-life issues. 
"I had some friends from Franciscan University passing through the area this weekend on their way to another event," Walter said. "They couldn't stay but said, 'We wish we could ­we're so proud that Notre 
Dame is doing 
this, because 
tion, Walter said. He told the audience that the pro-life movement would have significant challenges ahead of it even if there was an overturning Roe v. Wade, the 197 3 Supreme Court case that struck down state laws crimi­nalizing abortion. He said the challenge then would be to force all 50 states to pass laws outlawing abortion. 
Other speakers included a representative of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, the director of Students For Life of Americas and a local oncologist who spoke to the bioethical issues. 
"Bella," a movie about the 

thoughts and perspectives. It was important to bring in these new points of view, especially to Notre Dame, she said. 
"We don't know everything," Walter said. 
Walter said ideas are already being tossed around about next year's conference, focused on the third part of the encyclical, "Thou shalt not kill." 
Notre Dame Right to Life has over 100 dues-paying members, Walter said, and organizes numerous pro-life initiatives throughout the year. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
~------------. 
The Observer + NEWS Monday, April16, 2007 
Hodges 
continued from page 1 
am the best leader that I can be and in my capacity I will lead student government better than I came in," Hodges said. "I've already sent out an e-mail to the Board for next year saying 'I'm ready to make history."' 
Hodges, a social work major from South Holland, Ill. said her administration is off to a busy start. 
She has already begun meet­ing with members of the South Bend community to work toward her goal of reaching out to the community and making a connection between Saint Mary's and South Bend. 
"I just got done meeting with the South Bend Tribune about setting up a Web site about events and sights around town -especially to highlight Saint Mary's events," Hodges said. 
The Web site is a joint initia­tive undertaken by the College, Notre Dame and Holy Cross College to connect with the larger South Bend community. 
Hodges has also met with the Saint Mary's administration to discuss the upcoming beatifica­tion of Father Moreau in October. And she sat on a com­mittee to discuss the recipient of the Lumen Christi award that will be given to one senior on graduation day. 
Hodges spoke to high school students during the College's annual Spring Day on campus Sunday, an event she has par­ticipated in as a tour guide for the past three years. 
"[The day[ felt different because I'm in a different capacity as student body presi­dent," Hodges said. 
Hodges said she would like to change the format of Board of Governance (BOG) meetings for next year. Although she has not sat on the Board of Governance in any capacity in the past, she said she does not see her lack of experience as a hindrance to her leadership. 
Hodges believes that not being on BOG in the past is actually a benefit to next year's board. 
"We'll bring more of a fresh perspective to the table and switch things up a little bit," she said. "We will make it a lit­tle more interesting and active in the meetings so that meet­ings can feel a little more enjoy­able and to enhance feel of being on BOG." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO1@saintmarys.com 
Jury to decide abuse suit 
Long Island church sex scandal nearing closure, most settled out ofcourt 
Associated Press 
MINEOLA, N.Y.-The nation's sixth-largest Roman Catholic diocese is headed to trial this week in a $150 million lawsuit accusing church oflicials of reck­lessness for employing a youth minister who raped and sodom­ized teenagers. 
But despite its familiar sce­nario of youths abused by reli­gious leaders, this case is unique: It could be one of the few decided by a jury, rather than a quiet, out-of-court settle­ment. 
The U.S. Conference of Bishops estimates abuse-related costs from lawsuits have exceed­ed $1.5 billion, the majority out­of-court settlements. Many of the alleged acts took place so long ago their statutes of limita­tions have expired. 
Many cases are settled out of court, in part to prevent details of the alleged abuse from going public, said Steve Rubino, a New Jersey lawyer who has handled hundreds of church sex abuse eases. 
"There is a tendency not to want to run that risk," Rubino said. 
On Long Island, a grand jury found nearly two dozen cases of abuse going back decades in the Diocese of Rockville Centre, the nation's sixth largest with 1.3 million Catholics in 134 parish­es. 
The case with opening state­ments set for Monday involves Matthew Maiello, who pleaded guilty to rape and sodomy in 2003 and served more than two years in prison. 
International Conference at Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana, April 26-28, 2007 
Women as Intercultural Leaders:Collaboration at the Crossroads 

Keynote Speaker· 
Shirin Ebadi, 
Nobel Peace Prize-Winning Iranian Activist/Lawyer 

An Iranian lawyer and human rights activist, Ebadi was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2003 for her significant and pioneering efforts in democracy and human rights, especially for the rights of women and children. She is the first Iranian and the first Muslim woman to receive the prize. 
Thursday, April 26, 7:00 P.M. Angela Athletic Facility Free and open to the public 
S
ince 2001, the Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership (CWIL) at Saint Mary's College has been promoting transformative intercultural engagement to foster the intercultural competence critical for the next generation of women leaders.This interactive conference will bring together theorists, scholars, professionals, educators, community activists, practitioners, and students. 
Participants will have opport~Qities for networking, sharing best practices, and joining a national conversation about cutting-edge 
·thinking in new ways leadership and change agents 
lturalizing the curriculum 
CENTER FoR WoMEN~ INTER(ULl\JRAL LEADERSHIP 
--e-­
sCollege 
DA Eo INDIANA 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Monday, April 16, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
12,612.13 +59.17
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I, 941 142 1,288 2,690,330,508 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 
-1.69 -0.10 5.80 INTEL CP (INTC) 
-0.20 -0.04 20.46 NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) 
+0.20 +0.09 44.65 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) 
+2.73 +0.71 26.68 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) 
+0.46 +0.66 145.32 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE +0.51 +0.024 4.761 13-WEEK BILL -0.31 -0.0 IS 4.870 30-YEAR BOND +0.33 +0.016 4.926 5-YEAR NOTE +0.64 +0.030 4.683 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.22  63.63  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +I 0.20  689.90  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.48  I 04.25  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  119.2900  
EURO  0.7386  
POUND  0.5034  
CANADIAN$  1.1359  

IN BRIEF 
American volunteering up since 9/11 
WASHINGTON -People in this country have been volunteering at record levels in the years following the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, but that voluntary service dipped slight­ly in 2006, a study found. 
More than a fourth of the population, 26.7 percent, did volunteer work in 2006, down from 28.8 percent the previous year, accord­ing to a new report by the Corporation for National and Community Service. 
"We can't expect every year to be a new high so we're not really concerned moving from '05 to '06 with a small decrease," said David Eisner, chief executive officer of the cor­poration. "We would get concerned if that repeated itself year after year." 
An increase in volunteerism from 20.4 per­cent in 1989 to 26.7 percent in 2006 was heavily influenced by a sharp increase ­almost doubling -in the volunteer rates of young people ages 16-19, according to the report, released at the start of National Volunteer Week. 
"Out of the tragedy of 9/11 and the devasta­tion of hurricanes has come an unmistakable good: a strong interest in volunteering and community involvement," said Eisner. But he said there's plenty to be done to expand the country's service to others. 
Stocks up amid new inflation data 
NEW YORK -Wall Street closed out a bumpy week with a moderate gain Friday as investors, heartened by new inflation data, bought opti­mistically ahead of next week's rush of earnings releases. The Dow Jones industrials had their 11th advance in 12 sessions, and all the major indexes closed out the week higher. 
After some wavering early in the day, investors ultimately decided to extend the climb Friday, encouraged by the Labor Department's Producer Price Index coming in flat for March, once volatile prices for energy and food were stripped out. Including energy and food, whole­sale prices rose 1 percent, a smaller rise than the 1.3 percent jump in February. 
The stock market's advance was dampened only slightly by the University of Michigan's con­sumer sentiment index, which was weak. 
Wolfowitz remains at World Bank 
President will focus on 'important work' despite criticism for alleged impropriety 
Associated Press  
WASHINGTON  
Embattled World Bank  
President Paul Wolfowitz  
said Sunday he will continue  
to lead bank efforts to  
reduce global poverty, resist­ 
ing calls to step down over  
his involvement in securing  
a huge pay increase for a  
close female friend.  
"The bank has important  
work to do and I will contin­ 
ue to do it," he said at a  
news conference winding up  
a meeting of the steering  
committee for the bank and  
the International Monetary  
Fund.  
The committee said in its  
closing communique the  
Wolfowitz issue was "of  
great concern to us all" and  
called on the bank board  
looking into the matter to  
complete its work.  
"We have to ensure that  
the bank can effectively  
carry out its mandate and  
maintain its credibility and  
reputation as well as the  
motivation of its staff," the  
committee said.  
In answering questions  
from reporters about  
whether he should resign,  
Wolfowitz referred several  
times to the committee's  
communique and said he AP  
did not want any comments World Bank President Paul Wolfowitz, shown at a news conference in 
he made to get in the way of Washington Sunday, has been accused of securing a pay increase for a friend. 
the board's work.  
"I believe in the mission of  of the staff," she said.  deliver on promises for  Earlier Wolfowitz said  
this organization, I intend to  Eric Guitierrez, a policy  increasing spending on  misleading information has  
carry it out, I have had  coordinator for ActionAid,  development aid.  been circulating over his  
many expressions of sup­ an advocacy group, also  "The donors are now  involvement in the pay  
port," he said.  said, "It's time for the board  unfortunately in a position of  increase.  
Several times he was  to show Wolfowitz the door."  not fulfilling their promises,"  In an e-mail to bank staff  
asked how he could contin­ Wolfowitz appeared along- Wolfowitz said.  Saturday night, some of  
ue as head of the 185-nation  side Development  Large donor countries are  whom have called for his  
lending organization leading  Committee Chairman  meeting throughout this  resignation, Wolfowitz said  
the fight against corruption  Agustin Carstens, Mexico's  year to decide how much  he had remained largely  
after acknowledging a direct  finance minister, and  funding they will provide to  silent as the bank's board of  
role in the pay increase,  Rodrigo de Rato, the head of  a fund that provides interest  directors considered his  
Wolfowitz referred to the  the IMF, the bank's sister  free loans and grants to  future.  
communique.  institution.  poor countries, the  "I feel, however, that this  
After the news conference,  Opening remarks focused  International Development  has left a vacuum, which  
Alison Cave, head of the  on the World Bank's efforts  Association.  has largely been filled by  
World Bank Staff  to help poor countries meet  Last week Wolfowitz told  misleading information" and  
Association, which repre­ goals for reducing poverty,  reporters donors would  conceded the 109 pages of  
sents 7,000 of the bank's  broadening access to health  need to provide at least $28  documents about the contro­ 
Washington employees, said  care and education and eco­ billion if they are to fulfill  versy released by the board  
the group believes Wolfowitz  nomic development.  promises to compensate IDA  are "a lot to wade through  
should resign.  Carstens and Wolfowitz  for income lost because of  for significant facts so I  
"We do not see how he  talked about the need for  debt relief granted to poor  would like to call your atten­ 
can possibly regain the trust  wealthy governments to  countries.  tion to a number of them."  

China cracks down on pirated music 
copies of pirated and illegally destroyed in Guangdong, the eco­
Associated Press published books and magazines, nomically dynamic southern BEIJING -Chinese authorities the official Xinhua News Agency province that abuts Hong Kong. destroyed 42 million pieces of said Saturday. Law enforcement officers in the pirated digital videodiscs, compact "Through the act of destruction, provincial capital of Guangzhou discs, computer software and ille­we wish to show to the world the used shredding machines to get gal publications in the govern­firm determination of the Chinese rid of 10 million pirated discs and ment's latest campaign to curtail Government in protecting intellec­500,000 illegal publications, the rampant theft of intellectual prop­tual property," Long Xinmin, chief report said. erty, state media reported. of the State Press and Publication China on Wednesday warned The Saturday campaign follows Administration, was quoted as that the U.S. complaints against a pair of complaints filed Tuesday saying in the report. Beijing in the WTO could damage by the U.S. against Beijing in the Long added the campaign was commercial relations between the World Trade Organization over also meant to "improve the two countries. The complaints product piracy and market access. awareness of the general public in accuse China of violating its trade Workers across the country set fighting against pornography and commitments by failing to stop fire to 30 million pieces of smug­illegal publications." product piracy and of blocking gled and pirated audio and video Xinhua said a quarter of the market access for U.S.-produced materials, software and 11 million contraband material were books, movies and music. 

page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, April 16, 2007 

/u;ish in myfirstlincyclica! Lo ~fJJeak· qfthe love u;hich GodlazJisher upon us andu;/zich u;e in turn mttJt~share u;t'th oLhers 
-Pope Benedict XVl, Deus Caritas Est Encyclical Letter 

RY 
FRIDAY. APRIL27 

4:00p.m. Opening Mass at Alumni Hall Chapel (Fr. Jenkins presiding) ••• 5:15 p.rrL Reception in the Grand Hall of the Hesbmgh Center for International Studies 6:15p.m. Opening remarks from Fr. Jenkins ••• 6:30 P~ID. Keynote speech from Ms. Brosnahan followed by panel discussion 
SATURDAY, APRIL 28 
... 

9:00a.m. Breakfast buffet in the Grand Hall of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
... 

9:45a.m. Keynote speech from Fr. Anderson followed by panel discussion 
... 
11:00 a.m. Concurrent presentations of student papers (including roundtable discussions with faculty and students) ••• Noon Lunch in the Grand Hall of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
... 

1:00 p.m. Continue with concurrent presentations of student papers 
KEYNOTE SPEAKERS 

... Ms. Mary Brosnahan, director of the Coalition for the Homeless in New York City and a 1983 graduate of Notre Dame The Very Reverend Philip Anderson, O.S.B., Prior of Our Lady of the Annunciation of Clear Creek Monastery 
SPONSORED BY 

The Office of the President and the Deus Caritas Est Student Committee 
nd.edu/encyclical 
~UNIVERSITY OF For catering estimates, please email godislovc(liJnd.cdu and indicate your attendance. WNOTREDAME 
Monday, April 16, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Department of l\-fus.ic Presents 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
CHORALE 
& CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR PAIVI EKROTH, PlANO 

BYRD" MOZART" BEETHOVEN " BRAHMS BRUCKNER" DEBUSSY" STRAVINSKY 
8:00P.M. SATURDAY, APRIL 21, 2007 
LEIGIHON CONCERT ll/\ll MARIE!'. DEl\ARTOLO CENTER FOR Tl-lf I'ERfORMING ARTS 
Tickets ~10, ~8, ~6, ~3 
phone 5l4··631··2.8oo. 

..Pit DEBAR T0 l 0 
·"\,¥,!i)J PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
Bethany McLean 
Co-author of 
The Smartest Guys in The Room: The Amazing Rise and Scandalous Fall ofEnron and editor-at-large for Fortune 
Tuesday, April17, 2007 
Sponsored by:

7:00p.m. 
Mendoza Col1ege ofBusiness MBA Program Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
UNIVERSITY ' OF NOTRE DAME 
For more information contact Deb Coch at 631-6072 
MENDOZA COLLEGE OF BUSINESS 

Grand Forks vicinity touts flood recovery 
Associated Press 
GRAND FORKS, N.D. ­Heavy rain and snow still make people nervous along the Red River of the North, which devastated North Dakota's third-largest city 10 years ago and forced thou­sands to flee in one of the costliest and largest U.S. flood evacuations before Hurricane Katrina. 
Eleven people died in three states. 
Today, however, a nearly finished $400 million dike system brings some comfort, and people believe they have learned some things to share with other disaster victims around the country. 
"We like to call ourselves the poster child of flood recovery because we think we showed how different govern­ments working together could make it happen," said Lynn Stauss, the mayor of neigh­boring East Grand Forks, Minn., both during the flood and today. 
Still, "so many people I talk to yet are still struggling," said Pat Owens, the mayor of Grand Forks during the 1997 flood. 
As the record 101 inches of snow delivered by a winter of blizzards began to melt that spring, the Red River rose out of its banks and spread out across the prairie farmland. As the flood crest flowed north on its way to Canada's Lake Winnipeg, Grand· Forks and East Grand Forks were hit the hardest. 
Most of the 60,000 resi­dents were forced to flee after a futile fight involving 
3.5 million sandbags. 
Stauss recalls the pain of telling an exhausted family that there was no use adding more sandbags around their house to fight the rising water. 
"I remember telling them 'I'm sorry, you're going to have to give up. There's no way you're going to be able to save your house. It's done, it's over."' 
Four feet of water in the streets hindered firefighters when flames broke out in downtown Grand Forks on April 19, 1997. Eleven build­ings, including 60 apart­ments, were destroyed. 
"There was no downtown left, period," said Sandra Korsmoe, who lost her adver­tising business in the down­town Security Building. 
Many residents are still only halfway to financial recovery, Stauss said. 
The National Climatic Data Center rates the 1997 disas­ter as the nation's second­costliest non-hurricane flood disaster from 1980 to 2006, with the 11 deaths in the Dakotas and Minnesota and damage estimated at $4.1 bil­lion. The costliest was the 1993 flood along the Mississippi that started in the upper Midwest, with damage estimated at more than $26 billion. 
Damage totaled nearly $2 billion in the greater Grand Forks area, including $74 million to Grand Forks public schools and $48 million to the University of North Dakota. 
The Federal Emergency Management Agency gave nearly $210 million in public 
assistance to North Dakota and $17 3 million to Minnesota to repair infra­structure, plus $9.8 million for travel trailers and mobile homes, and $10 million in individual and family grants. The late Joan Kroc, the widow of McDonald's Corp. founder Ray Kroc, gave $15 million to flood victims. 
Grand Forks has written a brochure to share with other disaster-stricken areas. It includes advice on planning and leadership. It also says: "Understand that the new normal will never mirror the pre-disaster image," and "Practice patience. Some things just take time." 
The flood invites compar­isons to Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans, where FEMA drew sharp criticism for its efforts, but the agency notes there were significant differ­ences between the two disas­ters. 
"I think the big thing that went right for us was the partnership we had with the state of North Dakota," said Doug Gore, deputy regional director for· FEMA, who said his office had worked with North Dakota on several dis­asters before the flood. 
"Katrina was a catastrophic event in every capacity," Gore said. "Even though Grand Forks was a major event and it affected all the individuals, the city was still able to func­tion and deliver certain serv­ices." 
The National Weather Service took the brunt of the criticism aimed at govern­ment, with homeowners out­raged over forecasts that started with a prediction of a 49-foot crest. That prediction held for weeks, until the weather service bumped it up to 50 feet on April 14. The river didn't crest until it hit 54 feet. 
The weather service says it has changed its forecast methods since then. 
"Our science, modeling and communication are better," said Dan Luna, hydrologist in charge at the weather service office in Chanhassen, Minn. "We learned a lot in 1997." 
Among other things, meteo­rologists now stress the uncertainties of their predic­tions in stronger terms, said Edward Johnson, the weather service's director of strategic planning and policy in Silver Spring, Md. 
Downtown has now been rebuilt, and the city is grow­ing past its pre-flood popula­tion. 
The only obvious sign of the flood at the Sacred Heart Catholic School campus is a bleached out water spot, about 2 feet high, on an inte­rior door. The school lost six of its eight building but rebuilt in 14 months. 
"We sanded it down and refinished it and blended it in," Punky Beauchamp, the campus facilities director, said of the door. "But you'll never get that water mark out of there. 
"A lot of communities have faced disasters before us and since our tragedy," Beauchamp said. "It was a shock to the community and a lot of people were hurt finan­cially and mentally for a long time. But we came together." 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
page 10 
Monday, April 16, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
No children left behind 
Tbe !r.JJepentkntJ Daily Newspaper Serving Notn Dame a1rd Saint Mary'S 
P.O. Box 779, Notte Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notte Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNFSS MANAGER Ken Fowler Jim K.irihara 
M5T. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(57 4) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBsERVERONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Univetsity ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. Tile Observer reserves tfie right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant M=aging Editors and department editots. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authon; and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readen;. The free expression ofall opinions tfirough !etten; is encouraged. letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The OOOem;:r (USPS 599 24000) io; :pubtished MQndq duol!J;h Niday -ex:ccpt during exam and varntion periods. A s~ption tQ The-Observer is $100 for one acadt:mic pr; $55 !Ur-Qnescmester. 
The ~nrc:r is published at:: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send addrc:ss .;ortd(;tions to; Notre Dame. IN 4.6.5-56--0779 The Observet P"eriodicai postage paid a:t Notte Damt:­~O.Box779 and additional mailing tlffi.;es. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame+ IN 46:556-0779 
The Ob~rvcr is a m~mber ofth_e Assoda~d Pt~. All .reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Katie Kohler Chris Khorey 
Kaitlynn Rielly Fran Tolan Liz Harter Danielle Keller Viewpoint Scene 
Alyssa Marty Schroeder 
Brauweiler Graphics Madeline Nies 

Kurt Vonnegut, a great purveyor of truth and champion of humanism, died this past week. So it goes. Kurt is up in heaven now, but his stories and gruff quips about our humanity, and inhumani­ty, remain, as relevant now as they were forty years ago. His leg­endary "Slaughter­house Five" is partly a recollection of his own experiences as a POW in World War II during the frrebombing of Dresden when he was 22 years old. Vonnegut's original, and now alternate, title for the work was "The Children's Crusade," a commen­tary on the absurdity of our country's ­
• and other countries' -young people being sent to kill and die. 
Matthew Zeimer was eighteen years old when l;1e died in Iraq this past month. He was only a few hours into his first combat post, and he was eighteen years old when he died. So it goes, in Iraq. 
Major media attention has been brought to his specific case as his unit was one of the frrst to arrive in Iraq with reduced training time in order to meet the 'surge' personnel demands. The pos­sibility that he was killed by friendly fire 

Will McAullife 
Strategery Analyst 
simply fuels the frustration felt by those who criticized the surge as folly to begin with. 
As I'm not running for political office anytime soon, I'll go ahead and say what every single candidate (sans ·savvy Baghdad market-shopping McCain) is thinking: It was a waste of his life. In addition to Matthew Zeimer, 31 other lives ofjust 18 years have been wasted. One hundred ninety-three 19-year-old lives have been wasted alongside three hundred fifty-four 20-year-olds and four hundred thirty-five 21-year-olds. Wasted. Additionally, over 60,000 Iraqi civilians have died as a result of direct military intervention, and countless more have died and will die due to an obliterated infrastructure, devoid of adequate healthcare or sanitation. All these lives, too, wasted. 
I stopped my American military fatality count well short of the 3301 total U.S. military fatalities for a reason. You see, this past week I turned 22, and by doing so, I outlived another four hundred thir­ty-five young American men and women who will never see their 22nd birthday. They signed up to serve the country and got a raw deal. The blame game will go on, but they will never see their 22nd birthday. 
The children growing up in Iraq have been robbed of their childhood just as the young Americans fighting and dying for a lost cause have been robbed of theirs. They will return with amputations, wounds and Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. Those who have been physically and psychologically scarred by experi­ences in Iraq have been robbed of their youth and will likely never fully recover from the paranoia cultivated on the streets oflraq. 
As graduation quickly approaches, I've been doing lots of reflecting on the past four years. A lot has happened since my 18th birthday. Successes, failures, firsts, lasts, friends and love gained and lost; all have been written in this wonderful chapter of my life. 
But I'm not content with my life yet and I certainly doubt that the fallen in Iraq were with theirs. 
I have, we all have, lots of work left to do, and lots of life left to live. Yet, these men and women, younger than I, have no life left to give or to live. They signed up to give their lives for our country but, in the end, gave their lives for a myopic, overzealous administration-an abuse that should never be overlooked or for­gotten. 
Wtll McAuliJJe is a senior Political Science major who welcomes all comments and criticisms at mcauliffe.4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Rethink ticket deadline 
The University's new ticket policy requires current students to buy their tickets before May 3 of this year. This policy ignores the fmancial realities of many current students and should be changed. The ticket office needs to realize that stu­dents who are not supported by their parents do not have very much money. Many, like myself, rely on summer jobs for their entire year's funds, and budget accordingly. That fixed amount of money has to make it through the year. Clearly not everyone keeps to a budget strictly, but we spend according to what we have left, and try to extend it until the end of the year, when the summer to starts again. Many of us cannot sustain a $220 hit at this point in the semester, and the University's decision to change the policy without warning makes it impossible to buy tickets for next year. The University should also consider the fact that this will disparately impact those who are unable to turn to their parents for financial support. There are some 
Quote misleads 
questionable aspects to the University ticket policy more gener­ally. The price of tickets has gone up 100 percent since my freshman year (2001), and demanding that students make a commitment this far in advance could create considerable con­fusion. While I think these are important issues, I recognize the University could have good reasons for dealing with the process in advance, and I confine my objection to the deadline. I merely propose that the deadline be extended to the fall for this first year, so that students who are low on money can still buy tickets, and in the future they can plan on the expense when budgeting for the semester. 
Mike Roaldi law student South Bend, Ind. Aptill2 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

''The collection of any taxes which are not absolutely required, which do not beyond reasonable doubt contribute to the public welfare, is only a species of legalized larceny." 
Calvin Coolidgeformer U.S. president 
OBSERVER POLL 

Who will be the starting quarterback this fall? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, April 16, 2007 page 11 
Calling all humans: A greener ND 
As one of my best friends put it, I'm something of a human robot. I'm not particularly fond of children, the outdoors, racy fiction, major holidays, physical affection or politics. The only topics I regard with interest usually involve celebrity hijinks. So why am I writing a Viewpoint 
colui?~ tha~ ~as nothing to do with Alana Stelton Fergre s striking resemblance to Bret Michaels? I blame the CSC. Not only Guest Columnist did the Washington Seminar make me spend my spring break discussing global climate change and debating the viability of a sustainable energy model, but it also made one of the last great human robots care about the environment and Notre Dame's role in building a greener future. Upon returning to campus, I wanted to find ways to advance green initiatives on cam­pus, but I wasn't completely sure ifsuch avenues existed. Worse, I wondered whether progressive student groups would be open to help from a bumbling, slightly frigid novice. Prior to my post-seminar sleuthing, I doubted that the administration had any real interest in promoting conser­vation. Although the proposed changes are not radical, the administration is slowly beginning to address sustain­ability. For example, Notre Dame is considering LEED cer­tification for all future campus buildings and debating the installation of solar panels on the roof of the new engi­neering hall. If the plans are approved, photovoltaic pan­els could provide 100 kilovolts of power for the building, which is enough energy for three average-sized homes. Moreover, the administration is exploring ways to educate incoming freshmen about energy conservation without adding to an already crowded Frosh-0 schedule. The 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Gremlin manifesto 
I don't read The Observer because I'm excited about the riv­eting front page articles or the "accurate" movie reviews (the re-release of Disney's Robin Hood ... anyone?). I read it because I like to do the Word Jumble, read my horoscope, and laugh at the only funny comic -Kaleidoscope McDaniels. Yes, I am a woman, and yes, even I think the comic's portrayal of Notre Dame girls is funny-nay, hilarious. Sure, portraying Notre Dame girls as ugly, subhuman creatures is an exhaust­ed joke, but Moran has remained so dedicated to the stereo­type that you have to applaud him. I don't think there has been one Kaleidoscope strip portraying a Notre Dame girl as anything but a gremlin. That's commitment. No girl wants to actually be called a gremlin, but please don't make excuses for it; it only justifies the stereotype. 
News flash: It takes less time to shower, brush your hair, put together a decent outfit and swipe on some mascara, than it takes to whine about one guy. Try not to accept the stereotype and run off a shopping list of why you don't have time to look presentable or, as some say, "sexy." I am surrounded by some of the smartest women I will ever know, yet they still love shoes. Having intelligence and absolutely adoring footwear aren't mutually exclusive. 
Remember, Moran is trying to make people laugh, and he does a good job. Besides, ifNotre Dame girls were gremlins, the dining hall wouldn't be open after dark and girls wouldn't be allowed in the swimming pool. (Thank god that isn't true, because I like to binge on FroYo and then swim off the calo­ries while furiously weeping.) Ifyou have to complain, why not make fun of the Notre Dame male with his hoodie, khakis and shell-toed Adidas shoes that make him look like a pre-teen? 
Notre Dame is an all-boys club, and probably always will be. You're only confirming a stereotype when you provide excuses for it. Instead, go against type, have pride in yourself and strive to be a smart AND attractive Notre Dame girl. All it takes is twenty minutes, some mascara and a wonder-bra. 
So I'll take my "big words and integrals" along with my eye­liner and stilettos an~ attempt to create a happy medium. (Just kidding, I have no clue how to do an integral.) 
Laura Hattrup sophomore Lyons Hall Aprill2 

administration's Energy and Environmental Issues Committee, which advises Executive Vice President John Affieck-Graves, assembles the University's sustainability practices and forges collaborations with other offices. They have already worked with Food Services to offer sus­tainable seafood. The Committee is currently instituting a pilot Calories to Kilowatts (C2K) program in a few dorm gyms so that the energy produced by our frantic peddling can charge our cell phones and iPods. Notre Dame also sponsors the new Energy Center Student Advisory Board, a new organization which coordinates the student dimen­sions of the Energy Center. They advertise energy-related courses on the web and seek to sponsor tours of the Notre Dame Power Plant and other energy-generating facilities. Unfortunately, these facts are rarely advertised, perhaps because those promoting these efforts feel that most stu­dents will not care. By showing interest in their ideas and by advocating for greater transparency and further change, we can prompt the administration to continue efforts to increase Notre Dame's sustainability. 
Fortunately, several student groups can help concerned students interact with the administration. Students for Environmental Action will be sponsoring a week of ecolog­ical awareness in anticipation of Earth Day, Sunday, April 
22. This past Saturday, they participated in Step It Up!, the first-ever National Day of Climate Action. As part of the rally, which called for cuts in carbon emissions, local environmental groups were speaking and sponsoring fun, educational activities. Other 100-percent-organic events for the week include a renewable energy demonstration on South Quad, a tree planting and neighborhood cleanup in South Bend and a Mass for the environment said at the Grotto by Father Paul Kollman. The Biology Club recently sponsored a forum on An Inconvenient Truth and is now designing an energy consumption survey for the student body. The Arts and Letters environmental committee is pushing for an ECO Plunge, the energy-concerns equiva­lent of Urban Plunge. The Center for Social Concerns plans to offer a paid position for an in-house sustainability coordinator so that all CSC events are eco-friendly. The Washington Seminar on Energy and the Environment, which may become a permanent esc seminar, will con­duct forums with administrative leaders and student activists in order to present recommendations based on their experiences with senators, lobbyists, researchers and interest groups in D.C. They are also launching a campaign to unite representatives from student groups into a task force committed to energy and environmental concerns. All of these groups want our help, our input and our passion. Most of all, they want our creative solutions. 
Here's where you come in. Despite my newfound inter­est in sustainability, I'm still overcoming my robotic ten­dencies. I haven't spoken to a child in three years, and I've only recently learned how to properly administer a hug. I may care slightly more about the environment post-CSC seminar, but I'm still deeply suspicious of jaywalkers and those who prefer Chicago standards to MLA. Student groups need the innovative ideas and out-of-the-box solu­tions that only the fully human can provide. 
Alana Stelton is a junior English and Philosophy major. She can be contacted at astelton@nd.edu The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
BFA/MFA art 'says' too much 
'Kaleidoscope' not what we need 
I am personally indebted to The Observer for their now-published written justification of, in general, the publication of potentially offensive comic strips and, in particular, Kaleidoscope McDaniels. 
No one would argue that this particular comic strip has not crossed the line on several occasions; howev­er, what some do argue is that the line should never be crossed, while others argue that "crossing the line" is simply an opportunity for a different kind of humor and possibly more of it. Regrettably and with sincere apologies to those offended, I admit I have laughed on occasion at Kaleidoscope McDaniels, but with every due respect to Liam Moran, nothing can be more distasteful than my giggling at others' expense. 
Since I am a fan of analogies, here is one that should illustrate my point: 
It is quite easy to make food taste good ifyou add a lot of butter and other fatty things to the mix. So on one hand, your brownie fudge creation and dining hall waffles with chocolate chips and whipped cream ­yes, they taste like heaven. Certainly, we realize these things are bad for us, but when something tastes so good, we tend to justify and rationalize our desire for them. ("I just had a really tough week; I deserve that brownie.") 
On the other hand, it takes so much skill and talent to prepare a dish using vegetables, fruit and all those things that we normally find to be boring and make it more delicious even than those fatty deserts. Not only that, but we fmd that our knowledge of all its health benefits makes the meal that much more appetizing; we desire to eat it again and soon. 
Kaleidoscope McDaniels tends to be a fatty, puffed-up pastry with nothing to offer except a few thousand calories and a sore tummy. Much of the time, I find that this pastry isn't even that good. CroissantWorld, on its good days, can be a quite satisfying meal and, indeed, I look forward to seeing it again. 
Let us not be fooled with amateurish cookery; let us enjoy our comedy. 
DanAmiri sophomore Alumni Hall Aprill3 
Ifyou have not yet had a chance to visit this year's BFNMFA exhibit at the Snite Museum of Art, you're missing out on a proper sermon from the artist's pulpit. As you enter the gallery, you will be called upon to con­sider and assess, not so much the artistic merit of the work of art -line, color, composition and craftsmanship -but rather its socio-political message-worker's rights, homosexuality, multiculturalism, greenhouse gases, etc. Now, it is all very well to make art that is "about" some­thing-indeed, what is form without an attendant con­tent? And certainly art has advanced beyond the stale objectivity of Kantian formalist aesthetics. But it appears that the artists of Riley hall are so eager to suffuse their artworks with a fist-pounding social critique clarity that the art itself becomes but dispensable medium, subordi­nate to the "issues" at hand. And judging by the over­whelming consistency of issue-oriented art in this year's exhibit, it appears that the pressure to take a stance in one's art is coming from the top down. Either way, the role of art is marginalized. Why not write a manifesto instead? Or picket up and down South Quad? My point in writing this, of course, is not to trivialize the issues addressed by these works art. I think such issues should be addressed, and in fact I rather agree with the pro­gressive, socially-conscious tone in which these concerns are voiced. My point is rather that, by reducing a work of art to a single, self-contained "message," these artists trivialize the role of art itself. What I find lacking in the artists' mentality is an appreciation of the extent to which art is by its very nature political. The power of art lies in its elusiveness; it is the one thing we cannot put our con­ceptual finger on. Art is that wonderfully paradoxical thing which Kant describes as purposefully purposeless. For this very reason, it is the one thing in our society that cannot be commodified, instrumentalized or appropriat­ed for political ends. Insofar as art escapes the clutches of ideology, its mere existence is a vehicle for social reform. That is why art should never become propagan­distic, even ifwe agree with its objectives. An intelligent viewer wants to be provoked and challenged, not slapped in the face by the hand of moralistic evangelizing. The viewer wants a reason to linger, to ponder both form and content. But ifthe artwork is reducible to a single, univo­cal message, there is no longer any need for the viewer to confront the work on either an intellectual or aesthetic level. Far from provoking thought or engaging discourse, such heavy-handed sloganeering gives the viewer good reason not to linger and ponder; the explicit aboutness of the art leaves no room for appreciating it as a work of art. Ifthe aim of art is to awaken a particular form of social or political consciousness in the minds of an audi­ence, art must be made to speak more than politically correct platitudes. 
Jay Miller philosophy graduate student South Bend, Ind. Aprill2 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Monday, Aprill6, 2007 
CD REVIEW 
Nicks croons 180s best with 1Crystal Visions' 
By MARTY SCHROEDER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Self-billed as the most successful woman in rock 'n' roll history, Stevie Nicks has roller-coastered through a career with rock legends Fleetwood Mac and ventured out on her own to a very successful solo career. With the recently released "Crystal Visions," Nicks comprises the highs -and lows -of her musical history. She joins with musical greats Tom Petty, Don Hen1ey and former bandmates Fleetwood Mac on this mostly stellar, sometimes mediocre album. 

Opening with the hit "Edge of Seventeen," Nicks holds nothing back with her most famous of songs. Crooning in perfect '80s rock style about the white wing dove, Nicks realizes what teenagedom was about. Remade famous by Joan Cusack's impromptu signing in "School of Hoek," this '80s ballad will always remain iconic. 
The heavy chords of "I Can't Wait" keep the rock juices pumping with some edgy and flamboyant guitars that match perfectly to the techno beats in the background. The '80s are encapsulated in this rock/techno jam that will make any child of that blessed decade yearn for a comeback of John Hughes, Bon Jovi and Van Ilalen. Nicks roughs up her voice and weaves through the guitar solos showing why this song was an instant classic. 
Following the one-two punch that "Edge of Seventeen" and 'I Can't Wait" make up, she brings in rock legend Tom Petty to help on "Stop Draggin' My Heart Around." This is one of the weaker songs on the album because it can't decide if it wants to be a Petty or Nicks song. It tries to be both, but doesn't do either very well. Petty's guitar is prominent and it tunes up a fairly decent rhythm. But the chorus transitions into an '80s riff more akin to Nicks. The dichotomy between the two parts doesn't fit and brings down a song that could have been great. 
What didn't work with Tom Petty works marvelously well with Don I lenley on one of the closing tracks, "Leather and Lace." This track delves into Nicks's folk side while not ignoring her rock side. Nicks sings in a very competent country style that listens to coun­try greats before the pop revolution that is now overtaking the genre came into efl'ect. 

Don llenley's calm yet moving guitars com­plement Nicks perfectly. As do the sections when I lenley exercises his soothingly edgy voice that wouldn't normally seem at home amongst a folk song. 
The album closes with a live version of "Edge of Seventeen" that rocks harder than the studio version. The Melbourne Symphony Orchestra plays alongside Nieks that is far more a successful combination that it would seem. The orchestra sound next to the electric guitar brings memories of Metallica's foray into orchestra rock. Obviously not the same, this version still brings some rock power next to a equally powerful strings section. 
All in all, this album is for any Nicks fan -her career is very well summed up in this good compilation. Eighties rock is still alive and well with the edgy Nicks, and as long as people still remember what "The Breakfast Club" was all about, Nicks will still have a relevant place in the American music scene. Where more music has gone the way of the pop talent eraser, Nicks holds nothing back and puts violins next to her big hair. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel @nd.edu 
COMIC REVIEW 
Re-buffed 'Buffy' continues in comic book series 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
Scene Critic 
BuflY the vampire slayer is slaying vam­pires again. 
The television series may have ended in 2003, but the blonde heroine with the arse­nal of stakes and sharp punch lines returned in 2007 with more adventures ­but this time, on comic book stands. 
Series creator Joss Whedon launched the anticipated eighth season of the series in print last March, enlisting the help of Dark Horse Comics to pick up the storyline where the television finale had left it. 
"When you create a universe, you don't stop living in that universe. I know a lot of the fans didn't," Whedon told the Chicago Tribune. "But I was surpri<;ed to find myself back in it so firmly as well." 

He certainly made a flrm comeback. 
For people who memorize BuflY dialogue and dissected the characters' psyches throughout the series' seven-year run, the first two installments of the paperback eighth season are absolutely delightful. 
Comic book Buffy sounds like Sarah Michelle Gellar's Bufl'y, talking about hair­styles as she teaches her apprentice slayers about martial arts. 
"One slayer fighting alone is formidable. Two is formidabler," she tells them. "Three? Mega-formidable. And after mega, it goes to mondo, then super, hyper, beaucoup d', crazy, stupid.... It gets exponentially pre­fixy. " 
Fans of the series will cry after reading those lines because that tone and diction epitomize Buffy dialogue, and after a four­year hiatus, it's back in full force. 
Buffy's steadfast sidekick, Xander Harris, is also back, sporting commando gear by day, duckling pajamas by night and the eye patch he began wearing in the TV series. 
The eye patch and his role as the com­mander of Buffy's legion of clandestine slay­ers have Xander asking his subordinates to call him Sergeant Fury, alluding to Marvel Comics super spy Nick Fury. 
"Buffy" buffs' happiness could only be completed now by the appearance of Bufl'y's former vampire flames, Angel and Spike, in the near future, which Whedon has prom­ised. In fact, as Buffy falls into a spell that can only be broken by the kiss of true love toward the end of the second issue, Whedon may get the opportunity to keep his promise in next month's book. 
But there are other storylines that can keep readers busy before Buffy's romantics take center stage again. For example, the federal government has branded the slayer and her followers terrorists operating in cells scattered across the globe, blaming them for the destruction of' Buffy's home­town, Sunnydale, Calif., in the last television episode. 

Up until this point fans might have settled for the comic books as a satisfactory form of continuation for the Buffy universe but most are probably convinced the television series would always be Bufl)t's optimal avenue. 
Arter re-reading the first two issues, how­ever, fans might fmd themselves warming up to the comic books more than they thought they would. 
Budget and technology restraints would've made a giant-sized Dawn impossi­ble for the television series, and the mon­sters Bully has battled in the comic books already surpass the ones Gellar's stunt dou­ble fought. In print, BuflY can jump out of helicopters and battle dragon-like creatures at no extra cost and without resorting to costly digital effects that would have obso­lete when the show aired. 
In the third issue, readers can expect to see a witch-against-witch duel and the slay­ers battle against a legion of zombies. The pencils alone will determine the scale of these melees. 
The script is well written, the graphics are eye candy and the wit and characters that made the television series No. 41 in TV Guide's "50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time" are all present. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aherrios@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, April 16, 2007 
page 13 
I sell\fthn
I 

Delusions of Bookstore Basketball grandeur 
Preparation is the key to success. So going into this year's Bookstore basketball cam­paign, myself and the other members of Team 528 (name censored by the Bookstore commission and probably unprintable here) decided to do our homework and scout out the competition for our first-round matchup. 
In other words, we Facebook-stalked the opposing team's cap­tain, who turned out to be a female student. All right, we thought. Girls team. Easy win. So we did the chivalrous thing and invited the oppos­ing team over for a pre-game get-together to get warmed up for the big event in the spirit offriendly competition. 
Unfortunately for us, little did we expect said team to arrive with a female captain and friend, but also packing three guys in tow. We had been Trojan horsed! Team morale was low as we trudged out to Stepan Courl'i for our play-in game. 
On a cold, blustery April night (only in South Bend), the Stepan basketball courts witnessed the ftrst and probably only Bookstore victory by the members ofTeam 
528. After braving the elements and under the protective and loving gaze of an NDSP patrol car, we eked out a hard-fought 21-8 victory. By packing it in and creating an impregnable 2-3 zone defense, which com­bined with the swirling snow and frostbitten fingers to make outside shooting a virtual impossibility. It wasn't pretty, it wasn't 

Tae Andrews 
Scene Editor 
flashy, but a win's a win and we finally broke through to the exalted promised land of the second round of Bookstore. 
Team morale was high. And then we ran into a brick wall. After checking out the bracket, we noticed that Team 528 was slated to play the 16th-seeded team in the tournament. Needless to say, we got a bad draw. Obviously, this didn't bode well for our chances, but hey, ifGeorge Mason could make it tu the Final Four oflast year's NCAA Tournament, anything's possi­ble right? 
Wrong. From the moment we arrived at the Bookstore courl'i, things went from bad to worse. Our opponents arrived with a lot offanfare, complete with an intimidating cheering section, a team coach, guys dressed in suits, a bunch ofhangers-on and even a clown or two. Even worse, they packed a boom box blaring Jock Jams. Talk about intimidating. 
And then there were our opponents themselves, who were approximately eight feet tall each and were decked out in '90s­era NBAjerseys. In other words, they looked like the MonStars from the hit kids film "Space Jam." Unfortunately for us, Michael Jordan didn't arrive to save the day, although the end result was certainly comical. 
We laid an egg. Literally. As in a goose egg. As in, when the final buzzer sounded there were zeros across the scoreboard on our side. As in, a complete-game shutout. The game basically consisted ofa glorified game ofWhack-a-Mole. 
We tried everything: the pick-and-roll, the give-and-go and even a basketball version of "the Flying V" To make things even worse, we all seemed to suffer from a sud-den and near-total loss of hand-eye coordi­nation, and we coughed up more turnovers than a baker being mugged. 

But Team Hobbit (as I dubbed our squad) took solace in two things-first, one of my teammates managed to reject one ofthe MonStars despite his being eight feet tall; and second, none ofthe MonStars dunked on us, despite being eight feet tall. So all things considered, it didn't go too badly. Actually, that's incorrect. I would say that things could have gone worse, but given that we didn't score any points, that proba­bly isn't true. 
Anyways, hope springs eternal and fortu­nately we have one remaining year left of Bookstore eligibility (we've all decided to stay in school and not leave early to declare for the NBA draft), so with a little practice and some luck, we'll be back. There's always next year (at least until you gradu­ate). 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tan drew 1 @nd. edu 
Best films often dispelled to cinematic obscurity 
All careers have peaks and valleys, and even our best movie directors are no excep­tion. 
There are a lot ofmovies that we can all agree on-Spielberg's "Saving Private Ryan," Martin Scorsese's "The 
Departed" and The Coen Brothers' "Fargo." But there are also a lot ofoverrated and underrated films in those directors' oeuvre. Here's my take on a few ofthe more over and underrated films 

from some ofthe top Brian Doxtader American directors. 
Senior Staff Steven Spielberg Writer 
The over: "Schindler's List" (1993) 
I hesitated to talk about "Schindler's List," but it's important to separate the film as cine­ma from its content. I have issues with "Schindler's List" -it's a bit too long and (most pressingly) everyone speaks English. I understand that Spielberg wanted the film to reach as wide an audience as possible, but I think viewers would have dealt with subtitles for the sake ofauthenticity. I'm also not crazy about the ending because (like many Spielberg films) it dips into over-written sen­timentality, where silent understatement would have worked equally well. 
The under: "Minority Report" (2002) 
"Minority Report" isn't just a great film, it's a ripping good yarn with an entertaining and thought-provoking plot. This is perhaps Spielberg's best marriage ofideas and action, preserving the core ofPhilip K. Dick's story while attaching it to an incredibly well-made action piece. It's also one ofhis strangest and quirkiest films, which makes it as endearing as any ofhis most beloved pieces. Plus, Spielberg milks a surprisingly great perform­ance from Colin Farrell that alone makes it one ofthe director's most accomplished works. 
Martin Scorsese 
The over: "Taxi Driver" (1976) 
I've mentioned before that I think "Taxi Driver" is overrated. Not to say it's not a great film (it is), but parts ofit feel terribly outdated, and the film meanders more than any other Scorsese piece (including "Mean Streets"). Unlike his other films, "Taxi Driver" feels like the time period it's from -the film seeps the 1970s, when it was clearly trying to achieve something more timeless. Robert DeNiro's fantastic performance is what holds "Taxi Driver" together, but it's almost novelis­tic in nature, which hurts it cinematically. 
The under: "The Last Temptation of Christ" (1988) 
For some reason, this film gets left out of conversations involving the great Scorsese films, but it's his most personal and passion­ate work. The controversy surrounding "Last Temptation" might have hurt its repu­tation, but anyone who can see through that will see that it's one ofScorsese's most con­sistently thought-provoking works. It's also filled with underrated performances, espe­cially Willem Dafoe's tortured Christ, which remains one ofthe strangest and most emo­tionally effective portrayals ofJesus ever committed to celluloid. 
The Coen Brothers 
The over: "The Big Lebowski" (1998) 
The Coens' follow-up to "Fargo" was received with ambivalence upon il<> original release, but the film's reputation ha<> grown, and it's now considered one oftheir classics. Unfortunately, it's not quite as good as every­one says it is. 

It's funny, sure, but it meanders badly and its "cooler-than-cool" post-"Pulp Fiction" atti­tude means that it's a grand statement of style over substance. 
The under: "Miller's Crossing" (1990) 
What a spectacular and underrated film this is. Stylish to an extreme, "Miller's Crossing" isn't a film about gangsters, it's a gangster film. The Coens aren't interested in authenticity and they come offas guys who saw a bunch ofold mafia films and decided to try their hand ... and strangely enough, it works. 
It's got all the trademarks of the Coens' best work, with quirky characters and odd­ball dialogue, but attached to a darkly seri­ous undertone. It also has some oftheir best setpieces, including a famous scene set in the forest that features some excellent acting from Gabriel Byrne and Jolm Turturro, set against gorgeous cinematography by Barry Sonnenfield. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd. edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April16, 2007 
NHL 

Detroit uses power-play goals to beat Calgary 
Alfredsson scores two second-period goals to help Senators beat Penguins 4-2, regain control of tight series 
Associated Press "They're very good in their 
DETROIT -The Calgary building," Detroit coach Mike Flames dug a hole early with Babcock said. "We really want­penalties and Detroit kept them ed to take care of our business in it. at home." 
Pavel Datsyuk and Nicklas Detroit led 2-0 early in the Lidstrom scored within the first first period for the second 4 minutes Sunday and Detroit straight game, scoring two 
went on to beat Calgary 3-1, goals even quicker than the 8 taking a 2-0 lead in their first­1/2 minutes it took Thursday round series. night. 
Calgary had five penalties -"Both games off the start, we two of which led to Lidstrom's spotted them two because of goal -in the first 8:13 of the our lack of control," Flames 
game. star Jarome Iginla said. 
"Getting the power plays Unlike in the previous game, early let us get momentum," Detroit didn't add two unan­Lidstrom said. "It helped swered goals in the second tremendously." period en route to a 4-1 victory. 
The Flames seemed to unrav­Calgary's Dion Phaneuf el in the opening period, getting scored a power-play goal early penalized twice for cross­in the second period on a shot checking in a two-minute span. that was deflected and fluttered 
"Our game plan was to be past Dominik Hasek's glove. 
more disciplined and be harder The Flames went into the on the puck and not take third within a goal because of unnecessary penalties," Calgary that key score and Miikka 
coach Jim Playfair said. Kiprusoff's 33 saves through "Obviously, that was a prob­two periods. lem." Even though Calgary closed in Game 3 is Tuesday night at on Detroit, Hasek wasn't wor­to Pittsburgh. What they were lead to prove it. one last chance to get their Calgary. ried. determined not to do was give "We should have probably power play going. Frustrated 
The Flames can only hope "We were a better team in the away another playofT series. buried them the other night and all week by Ducks star defense­returning home -where they second period," he said. Daniel Alfredsson scored we didn't, but we put it behind men Scott Niedermayer and won an NHL-high 30 games twice during a second dominat­us and did tonight," said Jason Chris Pronger and their lesser­during the regular season -Senators 4, Penguins 2 ing Ottawa second period in as Spezza, who is well-versed in known teammates, they went 1­will help them slow the Western The Ottawa Senators could many days. The Senators made the lengthy list of Senators for-5 on the power play and are Conference's top-seeded team. live with giving away one game this lead stand, taking playoff failures over the last 10 1-for-15 in the series. 
Pittsburgh's stars and its crowd years. And that goal, by Petteri out of the game for a victory Nummelin, didn't come until Sunday in Game 3 of their first­Ducks 2, Wild 1 38.2 seconds remained -the round series. All seven games between the only blemish on another strong 
The Senators seized back Anaheim Ducks and Minnesota game by Bryzgalov. home-ice advantage -they Wild this season have been "It's a credit to our guys who have as many as two home decided by one goal. have spent a lot of time work­games remaining in the series The Ducks sure have the ing on it, studying them and -by slowing Pittsburgh's stars edge, though, after using a what they do," McDonald said. and getting two key goals from dominant, smothering defense "They've been good for us all one of their own in Alfredsson. and superior special teams to year, and they showed again 
Ottawa, rebounding from a 4-take a 3-0 lead over the Wild in tonight we are able to be suc­3 loss at home barely 24 hours this Western Conference quar­cessful on the penalty kill." before in which it twice squan­terfinal. Anaheim just kept clogging dered third-period leads, takes Andy McDonald scored early, the lanes, Minnesota made a 2-1 lead into Game 4 on Rob Niedermayer scored late, questionable decisions and Tuesday night. Game 5 follows and goalie llya Bryzgalov rarely found space to make in Ottawa on Thursday. stopped 19 shots to lead crisp, clean passes -let alone 
"We can't afford to get down Anaheim past Minnesota on attempt clear shots. But the 3-1," the Penguins' Gary Sunday night. Wild, who always stress a Roberts said. "We know that. "We didn't give them much," defensively sound approach, We've got to come out with a said Niedermayer, whose goal wished they would have put much better effort Tuesday." was his first since Feb. 6. "We more pucks on the net. 
The Senators have been in didn't have many turnovers and "Everyone was saying, 'Shoot control for all but 1 1/2 periods didn't give up any odd-man the puck! Shoot the puck!' on of the series, wining 6-3 in rushes and cycled the puck the bench and then they went Game 1. Only this time -down low. That's our game, back on the ice and they didn't unlike Saturday, when the that's our strength, and that's shoot it," coach Jacques Penguins came back with three what we have to play to." Lemaire said. "The guys recog­goals in the third period -they Game 4 will be played here nized the mistakes we were have the victory and the series Tuesday night, giving the Wild making and couldn't adjust." 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED SUMMER WORK-$15.50 base­appt. flexible schedules, no exp.needed,customer sales/service, conditions apply,all ages 17+, posi­lions throughout the US, apply now, start after finals,  FoR RENT andersonN Drentals.com BEITER HOMES,BETIER AREAS,BETIER DEALS. BlueGoldRentals.com  4 Bedrooms 2 Baths Swanson Highlands; Central Heating &air; remodeled appliances; $1250/mo; Responsible parties, students OK. 574-243-2778 Houses for rent for 2007/8,8/9. Close to campus. 3-9 bedrooms. Call Anlan Properties at 532-1896.  
www. workforstudents.com FoR SALE *ND CONDOS* NEW 2/3 BR,2 bath condos Minutes from campus Starting in $130,000s 574-252-2427 ndcondos.com  3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for 07/08 school year. On line see rent-nd.com or mmmrentals.com. Contact Gary at Grooms@ourweb­spot. net or phone 574-277-4759. Condo for rent-walk to ND/SM. Grt loc.Spac.Lower,2b/2b incl.all appli. AIC,Carpet,Porch,Car Port $925 + util. 630-417­ Very large home for rent for next school year. 1 block east of cam­pus. Walk to class/food/shops. 4 huge bedrms/3 full baths/large kitchen-lam rm &laundry rm. 3 decks overlook huge fenced yard. Very private &safe! Must see! 239­707-2025. 2 bdrm home close to ND. Avail Now. $650/mo + utilities. Call Peggy  
Reserve Yours Today!  8763/MCL214@ aol.com  269-687-3096.  

New 3 BR,3.5 bath twnhse, close to campus, carpet, unfurn, all appi,AC, 2 car gar. No pets. $1650/mo plus util. 914-232-3328. 
For rent: Nicest house in area. 4 bedrooms,AIC, security. 5 blocks from campus. 
289-4071. 

WALK TO CAMPUS!! 
JAMISON RESIDENTIAL 3 BDRM 2 BA LUXURY CONDO. ACROSS B-BALL STADIUM FROM CAM­PUS. SLEEPS UP TO 4 STU­DENTS. EXCELLENT RENTAL FOR 2 GRAD STUDENTS OR FOR PRIVACY. CONVERT 3RD BED­ROOM TO STUDY. CAB,NET,GAS,ELEC, INCLUDED. 
$1600 PER MONTH BEGINNING 6/1. CALL MARK@ 310-940-9444. 
2-6 BDRMS HOMES.GREAT PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­RATES.57 4-329-0308 ONE WHO IS? You do not have to 
be alone. We want to help. Call our OFF CAMPUS HOUSING. 6-bdrms 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­&3 bdrms still available for 07-08. BOO-No-ABORT or Call Cosimo 277-1875. bumbaca­houses. com visit our website at www.lifecall.org 
Adopt: A young loving couple long 
to share their Hearts and home with 
a newborn &will provide Endless
PERSONAL 

love. Expenses paid call Eileen & Ed at 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 1-800-718-6577 
Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs If you or someone you care about confidential support or assistance, has been sexually assaulted, visit please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape 7819. to learn about resources at ND and 
in South Bend. 

For more information, visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/depart-Chris Gill, you better watch out. ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi-James is coming for your girl weekly ad in The Observer. Courtney 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
OUND THE NATION 
Monday, April 16, 2007 CoMPiLED rRoM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 

OLYMPICS
NBA Standings 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record conf. last 10 
Toronto 46-33 32·11 8·2 New Jersey 39-41 29-21 7-3 Philadelphia 33-46 22-27 6-4 New York 32-47 21-28 2-8 Boston 23-56 15-34 3·7 
Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team record conf. last zo 
Detroit 51-28 34·15 7-3 Chicago 49-32 36-15 8-2 Cleveland 48-32 29-21 6·4 Indiana 35-45 25·25 4·6 Milwaukee 27-53 14-36 2·8 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record conf. last IO 
Miami 44-36 27-23 6-4 Washington 40-40 26-24 2-8 Orlando 37-42 23-26 6-4 Charlotte 33-48 24-27 7-3 Atlanta 29-51 16-24 2-8 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record conf. last IO 
Utah 49-31 30-20 3·7 Denver 43-37 25·25 8·2 Portland 32-48 19-31 3-7 Minnesota 32-48 18-32 2·8 Seatlle 31-49 18·32 3-7 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record conJ last ro 
Phoenix 61-19 36-14 8•2 L.A. Lakers 40-40 26·24 2·8 Golden Slate 40-40 26-24 7-3 L.A. Clippers 39-41 22-28 5·5 Sacramento 33-47 18·32 3·7 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
team record conf. last ro 
Dallas 66-14 39·11 7·3 San Antonio 58-22 38·12 8·2 
Houston 51·29 27-23 7-3 Associated Press venues ready for an transform a nation, can because I'll tell you what: New Orleans 37·43 21·29 5-5 Olympics, Chicago's task transform the world," If you could take the Memphis 20·60 12•38 :H WASHINGTON -Now is to persuade the USOC chief executive mayors of these two com­
Chicago takes on the rest International Olympic officer Jim Scherr said. munities and have them of the world. Committee that it "And so we look forward run our country, we The Windy City's bid to deserves to be the host, to trying to earn that would all be better off."
NCAA Women's Lacrosse hold a Summer Games joining a group of bid­prize." Chicago, meanwhile, for the first time moved ders expected to include The USOC had said offered a bid that hinges
IWLCA Top 20 

to the international stage Madrid, Prague, Rome, beforehand it would not on new facilities, mostly Saturday when the U.S. Rio de Janeiro and release Saturday's vote situated around the
team points prev. 
Olympic Committee Tokyo. count and stuck to that downtown lakefront and 1 Northwestern 300 1 capped a yearlong search The IOC will award the policy. nearby parks. The cen­2 Maryland 281 3 for an American candi­2016 Games in October "It was a very tough terpiece would be an 3 North Carolina 259 2 date for 2016 by picking 2009. decision," USOC chair­80,000-seat, $366 million 4 Duke 254 4 Chicago over two-time "This contest ultimately man Peter Ueberroth temporary Olympic stadi­5 Virginia 240 5 host Los Angeles. is not about the econom· said before opening a um that would be built in 6 Penn 238 t1 "It's just beginning," ics, it's not about the sur­sealed envelope and historic Washington
7 James Madison 206 6 
said Patrick Ryan, plus, it's about the magic revealing the winning Park. Chicago's plans
8 Penn Slate 199 10 
Chicago's bid committee that can be created city. "If I had all the also call for a $1.1 billion 
9 Georgetown 180 7 
chairman. "It's a long through the Olympic and power --and sometimes lakefront village that 
10 Syracu$e 159 8 
road." Paralympic games, and people accuse me of that would be built near the
11 NOTRE DAME 149 12 
Having won over the how that by itself can --I would take the map convention center just
12 Yale 135 15 
USOC despite lacking transform a city, can and merge the two cities, south of downtown.
13 Princeton 120 9 14 Dartmouth 106 16 15 Vanderbilt 90 17 16 Johns Hopkins 82 13 IN BRIEF 17 Denver 58 14 18 Rutgers 44 18 
Yankees lose Mussina, Vikings cornerback arrested King pushes for undisputed
19 UConn 27 .19 
Pavano to 15-day DL on diSOrderly conduct charge boxmg world champ 
20 Deleware 12 20 
OAKLAND, Calif. --Mike Mussina MINNEAPOLIS --Minnesota STUTTGART, Germany --PromotPr and Carl Pavono joined fellow Vikings cornerback Cedric Griffin Don King wants to restore the magic of Yankees starter Chien Ming-Wang was freed on $50 bail after being heavyweight boxing through a series of on the disabled list Sunday, further arrested early Sunday in downtown fights that will crown one undisputed depleting New York's already taxed Minneapolis and charged with world champion, and he bp,lieves it can 
pitching staff. misdemeanor disorderly conduct, be done before the end of 2008. 
"Nobody wants that," Mussina authorities said. "I think the title should be unified. To 
said after cutting short his throwing Griffin, 24, was released from the have one undisputed, identifiable world 
session because of pain in his Hennepin County jail at 4:45 a.m. champion would make everything bet­
injured left hamstring. "We don't Two witnesses told KSTP-TV that ter," King told Reuters in an exclusive 
have a choice. You just find a way to the Vikings cornerback was thrown interview. 
get through it and deal with it. It's out of the Spin nightclub for not "It would restore the magic," he said. 
MLB unfortunate.... Nobody's having pulling up his pants. The club has "Within 18 months," he said, when surgery. A couple of muscle pulls, a a dress code requiring that pants asked how long it would take before 
around the dial 
Mets at Phillies 

strain, we'll be fine." not sag below the waist. one boxer holds the World Boxing
7:00 p.m., ESPN 

After a pair of extra-inning games The witnesses said Griffin then Association (WBA). World Boxing Friday and Saturday against had a dustup with bouncers and Organization (WBO), World Boxing Oakland, the Yankees called up police before being taken away in Council (WBC) and International right-hander Chris Britton from handcuffs. Boxing Federation (IBF) heavyweight Triple-A Scranton to give them a A court appearance for Griffin is titles. fresh arm in the bullpen for scheduled Friday. Mike Tyson of the United States was Sunday's series finale against the A Vikings team spokesman the last undisputed heavyweight world reigning AL West champion. declined comment. champion in 1989-1990. 

page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, Aprill6, 2007 
MLB-NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Oarkleads D'backs over Rockies 6-4 
Pujols busts out of slump, Reds shut out Cubs in Chicago 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX -Tony Clark is a 

....... 
graybeard among all the young­sters in the Arizona Diamondbacks' lineup, and he gave the kids a lesson in power hitting on Sunday. 
Clark drove in three runs with two homers and the Diamondbacks beat Colorado 6-4 to take two of three from the Hackies. 

It was the 22nd multi-homer game for the 34-year-old Clark, one of many major leaguers who wore a No. 42 jersey to com­memorate the 60th anniversary of Jackie Hobinson's major league debut. 
Orlando Hudson, another who wore No. 42, went 2-for-3 for Arizona for his eighth multiple­hit game this season, pushing his average to .412. Todd Helton hit his first home run of the season for the Hockies. a solo shot in the fourth. 
After getting the first two outs in the ninth, Jose Valverde walked Helton and Matt Holliday. Valverde then struck out Jeff Baker looking for his sixth save in seven chances. 
The Diamondbacks jumped on Colorado's Byung-Hyun Kim for four runs in the first inning after the Hackies had scored a pair off Doug Davis. Kim, the former Diamondback, was on the mound because scheduled starter Hodrigo Lopez was pushed back to Wednesday because of right elbow inflam­mation. 
Arizona loaded the bases with­out an out on a walk to Stephen Drew and singles by Alberto Callaspo and Orlando Hudson. Two scored on sacrifice flies by Chad Tracy and Eric Brynes, then Clark hit a 2-0 pitch 420 feet onto the walkway in center field, a two-run homer that made it 4-2. 
Willie Taveras' suicide squeeze bunt brought Troy Tulowitzki in from third to make it 4-3 in the second inning, then Helton ­who had singled in a run in the first -lined one into the left­center seats to tie it at 4. 
Clark's second homer, leading off the fourth, put Arizona ahead 5-4. Kim (1-2) left after that with a bruised right thumb. The ex­Diamondback closer pitched three-plus innings, allowing five runs on five hits. 
Davis (1-1), acquired in the off­season in a trade that sent catch­er Johnny Estrada to Milwaukee, struggled to the victory, throwing 112 pitches in five innings, giving up four runs on nine hits and walking four. 
Cardinals 10, Brewers 2 
Now that his April drought is over, Albert Pujols says he was never worried about the unsight­ly numbers next to his name. 
Pujols homered twice and had five RBis, leading a 13-hit attack that helped the St. Louis Cardinals beat the Milwaukee Brewers on Sunday. Afterward, he chided reporters for writing about his early woes. 
"Obviously, this year hasn't been working out early," Pujols said. "But just because I haven't found myself at the plate I don't want to go crazy." 
Converted reliever Braden Looper was effective in his third straight start for the Cardinals, who scored four runs during an 0-4 start at Busch Stadium. Their first home victory since beating the Tigers in Game 5 of the World Series came against Brewers ace Ben Sheets (1-2), who fell to 4-14 in 22 career starts against St. Louis. 

"I don't think I always strug­gle," said Sheets, who has a 4.36 career EHA against the Cardinals. "I don't come out on the winning end all the time, but I've had plenty of good games against these guys and I've had plenty of games like today against these guys." 
Pujols, who hit a major league­record 14 homers last April, has three this month after lining a 2­0 Sheets fastball into the Brewers' bul'Ipen to give the Cardinals a 3-2 lead in the Iirst inning and then connecting off Elmer Dessens leading off the eighth. Pujols entered the game batting .158 with two RBis and left it with a .186 average after his 17th career multihomer game. 
"It's a good day," teammate Preston Wilson said. "Anytime you have a day where the super­star in your lineup kind of starts heating up, it makes the whole team feel good." 
Reds 1, Cubs 0 
There were runners on first and third with the middle of the order coming up, but Kyle Lohse didn't flinch. 
Instead, he struck out Jacque Jones lunging at an outside changeup. He caught Derrek Lee looking. And then, he got Michael Barrett on a fly to right to end the sixth inning. 
What could have been a game­turning rally was instead a defm­ing moment for Lohse. 
The right-hander struck out a career-high 12 in eight innings, outpitching Ted Lilly to lead the Cincinnati Heds to a victory over the Chicago Cubs on Sunday. 
"That's a big confidence boost when you can face that part of the lineup with men on first and third and no outs and get the two strike outs," Lohse said. "That's what we need right there to come through in that situation." 
Lohse (1-0) allowed four hits and one walk. Three of those hits were by Hyan Theriot, but the Cubs couldn't muster much else against Lohse. So Jeff Conine's RBI single in the fourth was enough for the Reds. 
Chicago wasted another solid outing by Lilly (1-1), who allowed a run and two hits while striking out 10 and walking one in six innings. It was his ninth game with 10 or more strikeouts and his first since June 10 with Toronto. 
David Weathers got two outs for his fifth save in five chances. With one out and a man on, Barrett hit Weathers' 3-2 pitch deep down the left-field line, but it just hooked foul. Barrett flied out to right on the next pitch. 
Lilly, who held Cincinnati to a run in seven innings in a win on April 4, walked Brandon Phillips leading oil' the fourth. And after Phillips stole second and Josh Hamilton struck out, Conine drove Phillips in with a single to left. 
HIGHER COSTS FOR HIGHER EDUCATION? 
Notre Dame Federal Credit Union offers many options to assist you with the financing ofyour educational goals. 
We offer Federal Stafford Loans, Federal PLUS Loans, and Federal Consolidation Loans. Plus, we offer discounts for automatic payment, as well as for good payment history on all of our student loan products! 
Contact us today, and find out how we can help! 
r4 NOTRE DAME 
~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
574/631-8222. 800/522-6611­www,ndfcu.org • studentloans@ndfcu.org 



THE NANOVIC INSTITUTE FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES 
Dr. Francesco Buranelli 
Director of the Vatican Museums 
11 The Vatican Museums: The Holy See's Portal to the World" 
Tuesday, April 17, 2007 7:30pm Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art 
The annual Terrence R. Keeley Vatican Lecture was established in 2004 to strengthen ties between Notre Dame and the Holy See. Through this endowed lecture series, the Nanovic Institute for European Studies brings prominent Church leaders to campus to provide students and faculty with new perspectives on the Vatican and its relations with Europe and the United States. 
Co-sponsored with the Snite Museum of Art 
www.nd.eduf,...,nanovic, or call 631-5253 for information. 

Monday, April 16, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB-AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Scotaro homers off Rivera to lift Xs over Yanks 
Towers shuts down Detroit as Jays gets win, Vidro whacks two dingers in Mariners' victory 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. -With one stunning swing against Mariano Rivera, Marco Scutaro gave the Oakland Athletics their first series victory of the season. 
Scutaro hit a three-run homer with two outs in the ninth inning, sending the A's to a 5-4 win over the New York Yankees on Sunday. 
Scutaro drove an 0-2 pitch from Rivera off the screen just inside the left-field foul pole for the second game-ending homer of his career. The other came on Aug. 25, 2004, against Baltimore. 
It spoiled a strong start by Andy Pettitte, who gave the Yankees the quality outing they desperately needed. Before the game, New York put starting pitchers Mike Mussina and Carl Pavano on the disabled list. 
Rivera, who blew his first save chance of the season, got two quick outs in the ninth before Todd Walker singled for Oakland's first hit since the third inning. Jason Kendall then walked, bringing up Scutaro. 
The super-sub was only in the lineup as a last-minute fill-in for injured second baseman Mark Ellis. 
Oakland took two of three from the Yankees after going winless in its first three series. 
The first two games went to extra innings, taxing both bullpens. 
Pettitte overcame a rough first inning to pitch seven innings, outlasting Oakland right-hander Rich Harden. 
Jorge Posada hit an RBI dou­ble in New York's three-run seventh, when the Yankees also got consecutive sacrifice flies from Robinson Cano and Melky Cabrera. 
Alex Rodriguez added a sacri­fice fly in the eighth to make it 4-2. 
Pettitte allowed five hits and two runs -one earned. He struck out four and walked one. He gave up a first-inning run for the first time in 16 starts, which was the longest current streak among active pitchers. 
Harden decided at the last minute to honor Jackie Robinson and wear No. 42 on the 60th anniversary of Robinson breaking baseball's color barrier, then dazzled through six innings with seven strikeouts before leaving with tightness in his throwing shoul­der. 
Cano, named after Robinson, wore No. 42 along with manag­er Joe Torre and shortstop Derek Jeter. Rivera already wears No. 42 on his jersey. 
Blue Jays 2, Tigers 1 
Josh Towers turned a chorus of boos into a standing ovation. 
Towers allowed one unearned run over 7 2-3 solid innings, John McDonald drove in the go­ahead run with a seventh­inning single and the Toronto Blue Jays beat the Detroit Tigers on Sunday. 
"He was outstanding today against a good lineup," said Blue Jays manager John Gibbons. "Tip your hat to the kid. He needed that and we needed that." 
Towers (1-1) posted his first win as a starter since last May 14 at Tampa Bay. He began last season 0-9, finishing 2-10 with an 8.42 ERA. 
"It's been a long road for him the last year," Gibbons said. "He did it the right way today. That should go a long way to improving his confidence." 
On Sunday, the 30-year-old right-hander allowed one unearned run, walked one, struck out four and retired 12 straight batters between the second and seventh innings. He was booed twice by Toronto fans in the first two innings but walked off to a cheers from the crowd of 25, 983. 
"I haven't done much here lately to get cheered, especially last year," said Towers, adding that he won without his best stuff. 
"Truthfully, I didn't really feel that good with my stuff today," he said. "We shied away from the change-up and the curve­ball because it really wasn't doing anything, kind of just stayed with the fastball and slider. Zaunie (catcher Gregg Zaun) did a great job of mixing it up and calling the right game when he knew my game wasn't really there." 
Mariners 14, Rangers 6 
Jose Vidro homered into the right field seats in his first two at-bats, and Ichiro Suzuki had four hits in the Seattle Mariners' win over the Texas Rangers on Sunday. 
Suzuki led off with his 21st career home run and one out later Vidro connected for a solo shot, quickly erasing a 2-0 deficit and setting the tone for the afternoon. Vidro then hit a three-run homer in the second inning, the first of Seattle's two four-run innings. It was Vidro's sixth career two-homer game, the last coming in 2003 while with Montreal. 
It was the 26th career four­hit game for Suzuki, who snapped an 0-for-13 slump on Saturday. Adrian Beltre lined a three-run homer high off the left field foul pole in the sev­enth inning, and had four RBis. 
The top three hitters in Seattle's order-Suzuki, Beltre and Vidro -were 9-for-14 with 10 RBis and nine runs scored. 
That was more than enough offense for Horacio Ramirez, who made his first official start for Seattle, 14 days into the season. Ramirez started on April 6 at Cleveland, but a snow storm forced the game to be called one strike short of being official. Ramirez trailed that game 4-0, but his slate was wiped clean. 
Ramirez (1-0) allowed Sammy Sosa's two-out, two-run single off the left field wall in the first, then held the Rangers mostly in check. He pitched six innings, giving up seven hits and one earned run, picking up his first win since July 17 of last year while with Atlanta. 
Texas starter Brandon McCarthy (1-2) lasted two innings, giving up six runs and six hits including a trio of homers. It was the shortest out­ing in McCarthy's 15 career starts. 
Suzuki started Seattle's sec­ond four-run inning with a one­out bunt single in the fourth. Beltre walked and Vidro's infield single loaded the bases. 
Raul Ibanez then lined a shot past pitcher Kameron Loe into center field, scoring two. 
After a groundout, Texas third baseman Matt Kata made his second error of the day, misplaying the hop on Jose Guillen's chopper, allowing Vidro to score. 

~---------------------------~ 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 16, 2007 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish earn qualifying times in seven events 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Seven seems to be the lucky number for Notre Dame track and field. 
The Irish achieved new or improved NCAA Mideast regional qualifying times in seven different events this weekend and garnered 18 new Big East qualifying times. The team split up, sending some athletes to the Mount San Antonio College (SAC) Relays in Walnut, Calif., others to the Azusa Pacific Invitational in Azusa, Calif., and still others to East Lansing, Mich., for the Michigan State Spartan Invitational. 
Two Irish athletes, sophomore pole vaulter Mary Saxer and soph­omore high jwnper Blair Majcina, earned their first regional berth this weekend. Majcina finished third at Mount SAC, clearing 6 feet, 10.75 inches. 
"It's definitely a step toward something else I'm going for, it's nice to at least get to regionals," Majcina said. "My goal is to get to the NCAAs." 
At the regionals, Majcina has the opportunity to do so. The top five fmishers in each event from each of the four regions advance to the NCAA Championships. 
That height tied Majcina with his collegiate career best, set in 2006 at the Hillsdale Gina Relays. Majcina, who had suffered a rare leg muscle affiiction called com­partment syndrome that required surgery and hampered him for over a year, was happy to be back so quickly and was pleased with his performance in practice. 
"I was able to relax because I had done so well in practice," he said. "I could trust myself and relax, and it all came together." 
Saxer won the pole vault at the 

Notre Dame senior Molly Huddle runs at the Alex Wilson lnviational March 2 at the Loftus Center. 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles 111ove into tie for second after win 
By ELLYN MICHALAK 
Sports Writer 
After beating Alma 8-1 Saturday for its fourth league victory, Saint Mary's is now tied for second place in the 
MIAA. 
"I feel like we were really able to come together as a team and get a win," senior captain Kelly McDavitt said. 
The Belles dominated in sin­gles play, defeating every Alma player in straight sets. In the No. 1 singles spot, McDavitt defeated Scots senior Laura Kendrick 6-0, 6-1. Standout freshman Camille Gebert had a closer match but beat Scots junior Kelly Schwartzkopf 6-3, 7-5. 
Belles freshman Lisa Rubino defeated Scots sophomore Laura McKendry 6-4 and 6-1 in the No. 3 singles spot. In the fourth spot, senior Tara O'Brien defeated junior Lindsay Wagner 7-6 (7-2), 6-2. Belles junior Cassie Quaglia defeated Scots sophomore Emily Noss in the fifth singles spot 6-4, 6-4. In the final sin­gles match of the day, senior Grace Gordon dominated, defeating Scots senior Betsy Bulthuis 6-4, 6-1. 
In the day's doubles play, McDavitt and Gebert shut out the duo of Wagner and Schwartzkopf 8-0. Gordon and O'Brien had less luck in the No. 1 spot, and narrowly lost 9-7 to the Scots doubles pairing of Noss and Kendrick. Finally, in the No. 3 spot, the freshman duo of Erin Kaplan and Rubino defeated Bulthuis and McKendry 8-3. The Belles now boast an MIAA conference record of 4-1 with overall record of 8-10. Next the Belles will face the MIAA's top team, Kalamazoo. The Hornets hold a perfect conference record of 5-0. The two teams did not play in 2006. 
"Kalamazoo is a great team. We're going to have to work hard, but I think we can pull through," McDavitt said. "We were able to beat Calvin, which is also one of the top teams in the conference, so I feel confi­dent that we should be able to work hard and get a win." 
The Belles will travel to Kalamazoo to play the Hornets this Tuesday. First serve is scheduled for 3 p.m. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
Spartan Invitational with a cleared height of 12 feet, 5.5 inches. 
Senior Molly Huddle ran the sec­ond-fastest time in the country this year in the 5,000 meters. Her fin­ish of 15:32.83 was also the sec­ond-quickest in school history, behind her own previous record of 15:32.55, set at the 2004 Mount SAC Relays. Huddle has won the 5,000 meters at the regionals each of the past three years. 
With her time, I luddle also qual­ified for the USA Outdoor Track and Field Championships. Huddle finished ninth (first among colle­giate athletes) at the USATF Outdoor Championship meet in 2005 and seventh (again, best of the collegiate athletes) at the 2004 
U.S. Olympic Trials. 
Going into the meet, lluddle was already qualified for both the regional and USA Outdoor Track and Field Championships and could fbcus solely on this race. 
"It was nice to haw~ no pressum and just focus on running a fast time and trying to place in the top half or the field, which was my goal going into the race," she said. 
Despite her experience against top competition, Huddle said this year's Mount SAC was the tough­est rae1~ of her earnnr. 
"The competition was the dHep­est liflld I've ever raend in my entirn life," she said. "I knew it would be really ti.lst lrom tl1e hrun. I was just trying not to be intimidaU1d and to not race over my head ynt still tak1~ advantage of the great competition." 
Four other Irish athletes improved their regional qualify­ing positions. Freshmen Balazs Molnar finished second in the 400-meter hurdles with a time of 
51.87 seconds. Molnar's time was the second-best in the history of Notre Dame track and field and the fastest since 1957. 
Junior Kyle Annen placed sev­enth at Mount SAC in the ham­mer throw, registering a throw of 189 feet, seven inches. That throw was Annen's best on the season. 
Senior Maryann Erigha finished third in the 100-meter dash with a time of 11.68 seconds, which qualified her fi:lr both the 100 and 200-meter dashes for the third consecutive year. Senior Okechi Okbuokiri won the 400-meter dash in 54.25 seconds, her best time of the season. 
Notre Dame now has 18 region­al qualifiers. In light of such suc­cess, Majcina was happy with the team's performance and expected good things in the future. 
"I see no reason why we shouldn't do well at the NCAAs," he said. "We're doing very well." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 



• Offer valid every Monday 11 a.m. to close. 

Ideal candidates will possess: 
o 
Strong knowledge of Windows XP and/or Mac OS X 

o 
Knowledge of Notre Dame's network setup 

o 
Ability to manage time effectively 

o 
Great customer service attitude 


Primary duties include: 
o 
Answering telephone calls from faculty, staff and students regarding IT issues 

o 
Troubleshooting issues based on telephone calls and provide resolution 

o 
Hands-on help setting up and troubleshooting computers and network connections 



Monday, April 16, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish avenge 2006 loss with win over Louisville 
ByJAYWADE 
Sports Writer 
No. 6 Notre Dame wrapped up the regular season Saturday by beating No. 58 Louisville 6-1, avenging its loss to the Cardinals in last year's Big East championship. 
The win brought the Irish record to 21-3, while Louisville dropped to 8-14. 
"We never spoke about it, 
Atlanta $182 
Dallas $182 

but I think it was on every­one's mind that they had beaten us in the final last year," Notre Dame coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
Three matches ago, Bayliss reorganized the Irish doubles pairings -a move that has paid off to the tune of three straight doubles point victo­ries. Notre Dame is 14-0 this year when earning the dou­bles point. 
Senior Barry King and jun-
Frankfurt $304 Amsterdam $442 $453 
ior Andrew Roth won the No. 3 doubles match 8-1, improv­ing their record together to 4­0, 3-0 in dual play. Seniors Stephen Bass and Ryan Keckley won their match 8-4, and junior Sheeva Parbhu and sophomore Brett Helgeson won 8-6 at No. 2 doubles. 
Singles play faired similarly, with only No. 51 Parbhu los­ing 6-3, 4-6 (10-8) to Lousiville's Damar Johnson. 
Helgeson defeated Kenneth Nordheim 6-3, 6-1, and King beat Robert Rotaru 6-3, 6-4. Keckley topped David Simon 6-2, 7-5, and Roth upended James McArthur 6-3, 6-2. At No. 1 singles, Bass started out slowly against rival No. 60 Slavko Radman, but quickly adapted his play to win 3-6, 6-3, 10-8. 
"Bass lost to him in the finals of the Big East last year and [Radman] has a 130 mile­per-hour serve when he gets it cranking, but we had a lit­tle discussion at the end of the first set and he really started attacking more and began to control the play and really ran out the rest of the match," Bayliss said. 
With the win, the Irish wrapped up their regular sea­son and move on toward the postseason, beginning play at the Big East tournament in Tampa Fla., Friday. 
"Our confidence is high, but there are a lot of things that we have left to do and every­one knows that," Byliss said. "I expect everyone's focus to be on improving our doubles, getting better outdoors and each player trying to improve their weaknesses." 
Contact Jay Wade at jwade@nd.edu 

CREW 
ND tops two ranked squads 
Irish knock off No. 5 California, No. 7 Stanford at Windemere race 

Tenns: All fares are based on mundttip travel and include aStud<ntUniverse se!'lice fee of 55. D<>me;tic fares include a7.5% US transportation tax.lltna t.lx5and fees vary, depending on til< itinemy and are not incklded. fares are subject to avaifability and change withoot notke. Domestic flights must be purchased 8days in advance and require a 1 day min stay induding aSat night required'""' stay i> 30 days. fares valid Mon through Thu unti1Jul31. International nighn valid Mon through Wed must be purchased 7days in advaoce and requirea 4 day min stay, iocluding aSat night w~h amax stay of 36Sdays. fares to Europe are valid fordepattures fiom Apr 1through May17.Asia faresarevalidfordepartures from May6through July 17.Australia fates arevalid for departures fiom Apr 18 through Jun 19. ffiackout dates and othe< resttirtions'""Y <>PPiy.
ec:• StudentUniverse.com 
able season by remaining unde­feated. The novice-eight crew posted a victory over UCLA Friday night, bringing their sea­son record to 7-0. 
On Sunday the varsity-eight, second varsity-eight, and varsity­four competed against No. 9 UCLA. Notre Dame's varsity­eight boat defeated the Bruins for its 
By DANIELLE KELLER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame defeated two ranked teams this weekend at the Windermere Real Estate Rowing Classic in Redwood Shores, Calif. 
During the first day of competi­tion, the varsity-eight crew knocked off No. 5 and two-time onds ahead of the Cardinal. 
The second varsity-eight and varsity-four crew also raced against California, each finishing second in their respective events. The second varsity-eight crew of Eileen Froehlke, Sarah Kate Hafner, Casey Fairbanks, Kristan Madison, Lindsay McQuaid, 
Ankica Jedry, 
"/ was very, very
defending national champion Elli Greybar, third win of the California and No. 7 Stanford. Brittney Kelly happy with today's meet. 
The No. 16 Irish varsity-eight and Jessica results." The Irish varsity­boat of Maria Roman, Lauren Guzik complet­four crew contin­Buck, Meghan Boyle, Christine ed their race ued to dominate Trezza, Allison Marsh, Laura with a time of with a win over
Martin Stone Person, Mary Quinn, Amanda 7:28:07 follow­Irish coach UCLA by a convinc­Polk and Julie Sobolewski, fin­ing the Bear's ing 25 seconds. In ished nearly six seconds ahead of winning time of their race, the sec­the Golden Bears and seven sec-7:13:25. ond varsity-eight 
In its afternoon race, the sec­ond varsity-eight rebounded from its loss and beat Stanford by a considerable margin. Notre Dame led from start to finish, achieving a five-second lead in the first 500 meters. 
The varsity-four crew of Sarah Keithelym Laura Petnuch, Anni Nonwhitney, Shannon Cassel and Mary Kate McNamara also fin­ished ahead of the Cardinal, win­ning by about 25 seconds. 
Notre Dame's novice-eight crew of AZ Tice, Lisa Bunn, Casey Sullivan, Emily Backer, Melissa Miller, Kathleen Donahue, Dana Gates, Casey Robinson and Kellyn Nestor continued their remark-crew fell to the Bruins, coming in 13 seconds behind the winning boat. 
"I was very, very happy with today's results," Irish head coach Martin Stone said. "I think we did a great job. The team performed well given that we have battled rough weather conditions [during practice times] for the past two weeks." 
The next challenge for the Irish comes April 28 when they travel to New Jersey to compete against Princeton and George Washington. 
Contact Danielle Keller at dkeller@nd.edu 


EXPERIENCE A FULL 
LIBERAL ARTS EDUCATION 
Explore the Program of Liberal Studies 
Applications Due April17 
(available on-line) For Further Information See: www.nd.edul"pls 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Games rearranged by cold, wet conditions 
By REBECCA SLINGER 
Sports Writer 

Unusually cold tempera­tures this spring has led to some shakeups in the Saint Mary's schedule. 
The Belles (14-4) could not face the Tri-State Thunder (19-5) Saturday in Angola, Ind., because of inclement weather conditions. Further, the Belles game against local rival Bethel, to be played at Notre Dame's Ivy Field Monday, was cancelled because the field will not be 
ready for action. 

Because Bethel is not a league opponent, the game will not be rescheduled. 
The Belles matchup against league No. 3 Tri­State (3-1 MIAA) has been rescheduled for this Tuesday at 3:30 p.m. in Angola, Ind. 
The Belles, who are 1-3 in conference play this season, need a win to crawl out of the bottom of the league standings. 
Contact Rebecca Slinger at rslingOl@nd.edu 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 16, 2007 
Loss 
continued from page 24 
No members of the team were available for comment following the game due to travel. 
Senior Kenya Fuemmeler started the game for Notre Dame, but did not make it out of the second inning as freshman Jenna Garcia roped another three-run round-tripper with one out. 
Sophomore Brittney Bargar came in to replace Fuemmeler and was able to 
keep the Friars' bats at bay for three innings. However, they eventually caught up to her as well when another freshman, Christy Becker, put the final nail in the coffin with a home run of her own. The blast gave Providence a nine-run advantage and the game was called at that point due to the mercy rule. 
Notre Dame 10, Providence 1 
The first game was a com­pletely different story as the Irish came up with their own five-inning mercy rule win. 
Bargar threw all five, hold­
ing the Friars to one earned run on only four hits. The sophomore ace also picked up four more strikeouts in the contest. 
Her battery mate, senior catcher Gessica Hufnagle stole the show with a run scored and six RBis -three of the six came on a home run in the top of the fourth inning. The inning started with two infield hits from sophomore Beth Norway and senior Stephanie Brown. Norway led off the inning with a bunt down the third base line and moved to third on Brown's single. The blast gave the Irish a 6-0 lead and they never looked back from there 
Notre Dame tacked on four more in the next frame, and, once again, Hufnagle led the way. The senior came to the plate with the bases loaded and ripped a bases-clearing double into the gap to bring the margin to double digits. 
Providence was able to put a small dent in the lead in the bottom half of the fifth when they scratched across one run, but it was too little, too late for the Friars. Garcia picked up the HBI on a single to right field which scored senior outfielder Katie Hoss. 
Notre Dame was scheduled to play another Big East dou­bleheader against Connecticut Sunday after­noon but both games were postponed due to inclement weather in the Constitution State. The extra day off may bei beneficial for the Irish, who will play four games in a three-day stretch starting next Tuesday when they take on Western Michigan in a doubleheader at home. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

WoMEN's LAcRossE 
Notre Dame makes history 
After cutting the lead to 4-All three teams have a 3-1
Irish defeat Hoyas 
3, the Irish scored three record with one conference for first time in Big straight goals to match left to 
take a 6-4 lead at "Coco is one of the play.
East history 13-8 halftime. As best, I would say The Irish out­Notre Dame con­shot the Iloyas
not only in the Big 
tinued its strong 30-22 for the
By MICHAEL BRYAN 

play in the sec­East, but in the game.Sports Writer 
ond half, the Irish country." Sophomore took an 11-6 lead goalkeeper Erin No. 11 Notre Dame accom­on a goal from Goodman tallied
Tracy Coyne
plished something never junior Heather five saves for the done before in the seven­Ferguson. The Irish coach Irish, and senior 
conference. The win at home was the sixth of the season over a ranked opponent for the Irish (11­3). 
"I think it was one of the biggest wins in the histo­ry of the pro­
"/ think it was one ofthe biggest wins in the history of the 
program. 
Tracy Coyne Irish coach 
Margaret Farland saved nine for Georgetown. 
Coyne said the Irish were able to break down the Georgetown defense through a balanced offensive attack. 
"With so many players scoring and eight assists, its really hard to slow down our team attack with different players stepping up at dif­ferent times," she said. 
In the win, several Irish players closed in on team records. With two draw con­trols on the game, senior Kaki Orr tied the Notre Dame record with 44 on the season, matching the mark set by then-Irish senior Crysti Foote last season. 
Notre Dame will close out its regular season this week with matches against No. 15 Vanderbilt on the road 
Wednesday and  at  home  
against  No.  18  Rutgers  
Saturday.  

three straight goals to take a the Big East with Contact Michael Bryan at 3-1 lead. Georgetown and Syracuse. mbryan@nd.edu 

Irish midfielder Caitlin McKinney fires a shot home during Notre Dame's 15-7 win over Duquesne April 1 at Moose Krause Stadium. The Irish defeated Georgetown 13-8 Saturday. 
MEN'S GOLF 

Linksters finish 11th out of 16 in Columbus 
Team shoots 60-over­par in rain shortened tournament at OSU 
By CHRIS DOYEN 'Sports Writer 

For the second week in a row, Notre Dame saw a tour­nament shortened due to inclement weather. 
The Kepler Intercollegiate at the Scarlet Course of the Ohio State Golf Club in Columbus was originally scheduled to consist of two rounds on Saturday and a third on Sunday, but rain in the area led to a cancellation of Saturday's second round. 
The decision to cut the tournament to 36 holes was made to accommodate travel plans for the 16 teams in the field. A two-round score of a 60-over-par 628 was good enough for an 11th-place fin­ish for the Irish in a field of 16, placing them ahead of notables such as No. 32 Southern Methodist and No. 33 Wisconsin. 
The high scores posted by each team were a result of the tough conditions over the weekend. The tournament winner, No. 20 Louisville, carded a 20-over-par 591. Only one player out of 90 in the field -Michigan State's Matt Harmon -stayed out of the red. 
Senior co-captain and All­America candidate Cole Isban led the way for the Irish, fin­ishing in a tie for 32nd with a 13-over-par 155. Isban's sec­ond-round score of five-over was only one stroke behind the lowest score on Sunday. 
Sophomore Josh Sandman and junior Greg Hodgers post­ed identical scores Saturday and Sunday, finishing just two strokes behind !shan in a tie for 40th at 15-over-par (257). The third-lowest score for the Irish belonged to senior co­captain Adam Gifford, who posted a 19-over-par 261, putting him in a tie for 53rd on the individual leader board. 
Hounding out the team scoring for the Irish was freshman Doug Fortner, who finished with a 24-over-par 
166. Junior Mike King com­peted as an individual and shot a 25-over-par 167. 
Next week, the Irish head to the Cardinal Club in Louisville for the Big East conference championship. With warm, sunny weather expected, the Irish will hope to use the improved condi­tions to keep better pace with Louisville, one of the strongest teams in the confer­ence, than they could in Columbus. 
The Irish have won the con­ference event three years in a row, and they will be looking to extend that streak to four. 
The Observer was unable to reach team members for comment. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
storage
space

• 
Lighted & Paved 


• 
Free l..OCk With EVery Unit 


4 Morr-Jl Special May rnrougll August For Notre Dame Students 
5X10 .. $14!h DEP 
10 X 10 ...~199 +DEP 
Cali 574·247.7~ 
setwean Notre Dame ano Airport at the comer of Mayflower & 
EO:lSOil 

year history of the Big East Saturday -the Irish defeatc ed Georgetown. 
Irish continued to counter every Georgetown 
The 13-8 loss for the No. 9 Hoyas (7-6) snapped a 37­game win streak that dated back to the foundation of the 

goal and win by  a  comfort­ 
able margin.  
Nine  different  players  

scored for the Irish, with sophomore Jillian Byers 
gram," Notre Dame coach Tracy Coyne said. "We knew 
we  needed to play  a  com­ 
plete game, and  we  were  
able to."  

Under a minute into the game Notre Dame opened up the scoring with a goal by sophomore Jane Stoeckert. But Georgetown quickly responded, with freshman Ashby Kaestner scoring leading the way with three goals. Junior Caitlin McKinney added a goal and three assists. 
The Notre Dame defense held Hoyas star Coco Stanwick to just one goal on 

the afternoon. Kaestner led Georgetown with her three goals, all in the first half. 
"Coco is one of the best, I would say not only in the Big East, but in the country," Coyne said. "Meaghan Fitzpatrick had the assign­ment and did an amazing job." 
With the win, the Irish vaulted into a tie for first in 
--------------------------, 
Monday, April 16, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Lochocki added a score and an assist. Sophomore goal­
Record 
tender Dan Gnazzo picked up the loss with 13 stops, allow­continued from page 24 
ing 10 goals in 44 minutes of Hubschmann, and junior work. attack Alex Wharton to deci­The game against Denver mate Air started out on Force (2-7, 1-a bit of a dif­2). Freshman ferent note. attack Will The Pioneers Yeatman (7-6, 2-1)
"Our scoring has been 
added two started the goals and two spread out, not done by game red hot 
assists while just one guy. Our defense as they 
sophomore jumped to an
also held their own. You
attack Ryan early 3-1 Hoff netted have a good chance to win advantage. 
two tallies. ifyou only give up four, Notre Dame 
Polk also tied up the
five, or six goals,, 
had three game 3-3 in helpers. the second Junior goal­Joey Kemp quarter 
tender Joey Irish goaltender before Denver Kemp manned added two the defensive more goals to end by making take a 5-3 12 saves and lead. giving up only four goals in The Irish, however, would over 50 minutes of play. not be denied their fifth win Air Force was led by senior in a row this season. Notre midfielder Justin Kuchta, Dame closed the first half who had one goal and an with two quick goals en route assist. Senior attack Conrad to an 11-1 run to finish the 
game. "I played OK in goal," Kemp 
"Our scoring has been said. "I was slow in the first spread out, not done by just half against Denver, but I had one guy," Kemp said. "Our a stronger game against Air defense also held their own. Force." You have a good chance to The Pioneers were led by win if you only sophomore mid-give up four, five fielder Joey or six goals." Murray, who 
The Irish were "!got the scored twice and led by II off and opportunities to added an assist. Polk, who netted Freshman mid­
score. It was a
four goals each. fielder Ilija Gajic Podgajny added product ofthe added two goals, two goals and an environment, while freshman assist while midfielder Charley Wharton scored Dickenson had one
Lucius Polk
twice. goal and two "I got the oppor­assists. Senior
Irish midfielder 
tunities to score," goalie J eb Polk said. "It was Hollingsworth a product of the environment. picked up the loss in a com­The way [Denver's) defense plete game. He gave up 14 played forced me to the goals and made 12 stops. goal." The two wins place the 
Hubschmann had another Irish at 3-0 in the Great solid performance with one Western Lacrosse League, a goal and four assists. position they have not been Yeatman also aided with in since 2002. three helpers. "Now we just have to defeat 
Kemp was credited with the Quinnipiac and Ohio State," win in goal as he made 11 Kemp said. "We have a better saves in a complete 60 min­standing in the GWLL." utes of work. Notre Dame takes on non-
conference foe, Lehigh Saturday at Moose Krause Stadium. The Irish will then travel to Ohio State and Quinnipiac following the Lehigh game to close out the season. 
"We are looking for an automatic qualifier for the [NCAA] tournament, but hopefully, by the end of the season, we won't even need it," Polk said. 
Notes: 

+ 
Notre Dame held the edge in shots and face-offs for both games. The Irish ousted the Falcons 50-23 on attempts on goal while best­ing the Pioneers 36-28 on the draw. The Irish claimed 18­of-23 face-offs against Air Force and 13-of-24 against Denver. 

+ 
Yeatman leads the Irish in scoring with 36 points on 18 goals and 18 assists this season. Hoff has netted a team-high 28 goals. 


Contact Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.edu 
O.o {/b.r.f)_pa,.<r 

tiriJdtziJtitm 'f0tM:ewd s~-w U7y /j}-2S, 2007 
Corne, eariy, stay late, same price! 
Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents. 
Wee~.end donation is $100.00 per parent, Whether you stay Two, three. or four nights. Rooms are available Thursday through Sunday. 
For reservations call 574-631-7512 or 574-631-9436 

PHIL HUDELSON!The Observer 
Irish sophomore Keely Tefft slams a backhand during Notre Dame's 4-3 win over Vanderbilt January 28 at the Eck Tennis Center. The Irish lost 5-2 to No. 9 Northwestern this weekend. 

Corpus Christi 
Dir. of Campus Ministry 
Master's degree in Catholic Theology, 3yrs. exp. & Spanish fluency prefd. Send resume to deleona(a)iwacc.org or fax 361-883-2185 w·w\v.twacc.org 
Wildcats 
continued from page 24 
Thompson 8-1. 
"Yeah, they got killed. They just didn't play well. It was pret­ty ugly," Louderback said. "We were down 4-0 in a short amount of time, and it didn't get any better." 
Both Buck and Ciobanu were in the doubles lineup against Northwestern back in February, but today the Irish sent out a revised lineup at No. 2 and No. 3. 
Sophomore Kelcy Tefft and freshman Kali Krisik grabbed the No. 2 doubles match for Notre Dame with an 8-6 win over Lauren Lui and Keri Robinson, but Samantha Murray and Alexis Conill clinched the doubles point for the Wildcats by defeating Irish freshman Colleen Rielley and sophomore Katie Potts 8-4. 
"At No. 3 doubles, that made a big difference," Louderback said. 
The Thompsons' struggles carried over into singles play. At, No 1 singles, No. 11 Rose managed to get a key break against No. 26 with the score tied 3-3 in the first set. Rose then cruised to a 6-3, 6-2 victo­ry. 'No. 29 Murray made quick work of Christian Thompson at No. 2 with a 6-3, 6-1 victory. 
No. 113 Lui clinched the match for Northwestern with a 6-4, 6-3 win over Tefft. Nazlie 
Ghazal  made  it  5-0  
Northwestern  by  defeating  
Krisik 6-4, 6-2.  

The Irish then staved off a sweep with a pair of three-set tiebreaking wins. Rielley picked up a 7-6 (8-6), 3-6, 1-0 (11-9) win over Alexis Prousis and Potts downed Robinson 3-6, 6-4, 1-0 (10-7). 
Louderback rested Catrina Thompson against DePaul Saturday because she had to sit out one more match this season in order to play in the Big East and NCAA Tournaments, and the Blue Demons only carried five singles players. This meant DePaul forfeited at No. 6. 
"They're No. 1 and 3 players are out. Tore their ACLs early in the year," Louderback said. "I felt bad for them. They're strug­gling, but they beat Marquette the day before, so they're capa­ble of being a good team." 
Ciobanu returned to the court Sunday against Marquette and competed with Rielley in No. 2 doubles, winning 8-1 over Francina Bonnelly and Margaret Wilson. 
In their matches against both Marquette and DePaul, the Irish did not lose a set in singles or double play. 
The two matches also marked the dual match debut of junior Bailey Louderback, daughter of coach Jay Louderback. Bailey won at No. 3 doubles in both matches with Christian Thompson Saturday and Krisik Sunday. 
"She played really well [Saturday] in the doubles. So, it was fun to see her get her first two doubles matches in," Louderback said. 
With dual match play over, the Irish will play in the Big East tournament beginning Friday. Louderback said he hopes his team will be fully recovered by then. 
"We're trying to get as healthy as we can for that match on Friday," Louderback said. "We don't play until Friday. We can only turn in eight players for our roster so the eight healthiest kids we got will be on the ros­ter." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

r 
' 
' 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 16, 2007 
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 

dunking prowess. 
Hallelujah Holla Back 21, Eatin' Cheeseburgers 4 
A more athletic and experi­enced Hallelujah Halla Back team defeated Eatin' Cheeseburgers 21-4. Led by inside scoring and tough perimeter defense, Hallelujah took an 11-1 lead going into 
the half. 
H a II e I uj a h pI ayers Jon Brewis, Greg Naylor, Matt Verhamme, Mike Bednarczyk and Lindsay Ruhling provided more of the same in the sec­ond half for the Halla Backs, letting up only a few outside shots in the win. 
"We had to pick up two of our players right before the game, but we responded well to the pressure," Brewis said. "They played well as a team and were great sports." 
Hallelujah controlled the 
interior throughout the game, scoring most of their points off layups inside and forcing Cheeseburgers to play almost exclusively on the outside. 
There's a 30 percent Chance We're Already Playing 21, Flippin' Awesome 9 
Chance defeated Awesome 21-9 in an entertaining matchup on the Lyons courts Sunday. 
Despite giving up a huge height advantage, Awesome, 
an all-girls squad, shot well enough from the outside to keep the contest reasonably close. 
The athleticism of Chance was too much, however, as the team scored many times on fast breaks, including sev­eral dunks. 
Awesome, made up of teams members Andrew Parnell, Warren Scott, Brian Sarnacki, Zander Stachniak, and Justine Stremick, took a 9-3 lead into the half. 
While Awesome made six 
long jumpers in the second half, Chance continued to score off steals and on fast breaks for the win. Stremick, a member of the Irish volley­ball team, was able to impose her will inside on girls with her height advantage. · 
"We owe it all to our coach­es," Parnell said. "They were our keys, and we got lucky ­those girls were flippin' awe­some." 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
Hoyas 

continued from page 24 
every Irish starter had a hit as the Irish routed Georgetown to take the rubber game of the weekend series at Frank Eck Stadium Sunday. 
"Today was a must-win," Schrage said. "If we don't win today, we've got a long haul to get back." 
With the help of several costly Georgetown errors, the Irish offense took it to Hoyas starter Jimmy Saris early. 
In the bottom of the first, Notre Dame took advantage of several misplays by Georgetown rightfielder Kelly Muir to take the early lead. With two outs, Irish left field­er Ross Brezovsky hit a single to right and took second on an error by Muir. 
Designated hitter Matt Weglarz then looped a pop-up into short right that Muir mis­judged, allowing Brezovsky to put the Irish up 1-0. 
In the second inning, senior centerfielder Danny Dressman led off with a first-pitch single to center. Jeremy Barnes then lined his sixth double of the season down the right field line to knock in Dressman. Barnes eventually scored from another run, before Weglarz capped off the inning with the double to right to make it 11­0. 
"We were finally able to string together a big inning in the fourth and get some extra base hits, which we haven't been doing," Schrage said. 
Sophomore righthander Kyle Weiland gave up just one unearned run in five innings while striking out six to get the win for Notre Dame. 
"The offense did a great job and gave me a lot of confi­dence," said Weiland, who got his first win of the season as a starter and improved to 3-0 overall. 
Weiland had appeared mainly in relief for the Irish this year and added that he was happy about his new role. 
"It's a little nicer being a starter," Weiland said. "It gives you more time to get control over all your pitches." 
Georgetown 6, Notre Dame 1 
Georgetown pitcher Michael Gaggioili allowed just one run in eight innings and the Hoyas banged out 12 hits in a 6-1 win over Notre Dame Saturday at Frank Eck Stadium. 
"This was supposed to be a big weekend for us," Irish coach Schrage said. "I was up strong for the Irish in the seventh inning. 
"Our three, four and five hit­ters, that's been kind of our Achilles heel all year, and they really stepped up," Schrage said. 
Weglarz started off the inning for Notre Dame with a single and eventually crossed home on a throwing error. Dressman added an RBI and scored on a dropped fly ball to finish the inning. 
The middle of the lineup powered Notre Dame again in the eighth. Brezovsky, Weglarz and Dressman combined for three hits. Dressman's line drive down the left field line drove in the fifth run for Notre Dame. Weglarz and Dressman scored off Georgetown errors to pick up the last two more runs of the game for Notre Dame. 
Phelps noted that the Irish would have struggled without the combination of strong bats at the middle of the lineup and a strong defensive game. 
"When the team puts up ten runs for me, they're going to pick me up nine times out of ten," he said. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu, Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu and Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
Lilley singled to center, another "If we don't win Georgetown defen­
today, we've got a
sive miscue put 
long haul to get
the Irish up 4-0. Saris caught back." Connolly off sec­ond but instead of 
Dave Schrage 
throwing to pick 
Irish coach 
off the runner, he charged off of the mound and attempted to tag Connolly. Connolly a voided. the tag before heading to third. Saris finally got rid of the ball but threw it away, allowing Connolly to come in to score. 
The Irish offense opened the flood gates with seven more runs in the third. After Weglarz led off with a walk and Mike Dury pulled a dou­ble over first base, Dressman plated both runners with his second single up the middle of the game. Barnes followed with a single to left and Dressman came in to score. Barnes then stole second before Ryan Connolly walked, putting runners on first and second for Lilley. Lilley fol­lowed with his 50th hit of the season to knock in Barnes and chase Saris. 
Freshman reliever Cary Piligian did not fare much bet­ter than Saris. Piligian surren­dered an RBI double to Pollock. the first batter he faced. Brezovsky then ground­ed out to second to plate 
Korpi threw 4.2 innings, giv­ing up three runs in on seven hits with four strikeouts and three walks. The junior's record dropped to 1-5 on the season. 
"I don't think he has confi­dence in his stuff right now," Schrage said. 
Right bander Dan Kapala was scheduled to start Saturday, but had to miss the start due to tendonitis. 
Notre Dame 10, Georgetown 
0 
Sophomore David Phelps proved how reliable he is for Notre Dame again, capturing his third straight 
win Friday night Phelps gave the
"/ don't think he 
with a 10-0 Hoyas a glimmer of
has confidence in 
shutout of hope in the second Georgetown. his stuffright as he allowed Muir 
The right-han­now. to advance to third der, who entered off two failed pick­the series No. 11 off attempts. in the nation in Dave Schrage Phelps was able to ERA, lowered his Irish coach hold on to his shut with five RBis and seven runs. 
Note Dame took an early 2-0 lead in the first inning and never looked back. 
Lilley started the inning on base for Notre Dame after get­ting hit by a pitch. Georgetown's Erick Chandler proceeded to walk Pollock and Brezovsky to load the bases. Weglarz drove in the first run, sending Lilley home off a sac­rifice fly. Dressman advanced the lead to two by reaching first off a throwing error and sending Pollock home. 
"You get confidence scoring runs, getting the lead and we just kind of took with that," 
Weglarz said. 

from 1.51 to 1.34, adding eight strikeouts in seven innings of work to boot. 
The middle of the lineup provided strong support for Phelps and Notre Dame as Brezovsky, Weglarz and Dressman, the three, four, and five batters, each reached base four times. The trio com­bined to go 7-10 at the plate 
out as he rounded out the inning with a strikeout and pop-up. 
.The Irish followed with another two-run inning in the bottom of the third to expand their lead to four. The inning proceeded in similar fashion to the first for Notre Dame as it scored two runs off one hit. 
The middle of lineup came 
second on a passed ball that disappointed in our effort Georgetown catcher Matt today." !annetta could not locate until The inning was capped Barnes had slid across the when Matt Harrigan blasted a plate safely. double to score left fielder 
After Ryan Connolly contin­Derek DeGrijs and Bouchard ued the rally with and drive Korpi to a walk and Brett the bench. Irish 
-rHE POWER OF PROCRASTINATION 
LECTURE AND BOO~£. SIC::rNINC::r WITH 

~ORC:.E 
CHAM 

CREATOR OF THE C:rRAD STUDENT COMIC STRIP 
PILED HIC::rHER & DEEPER 

reliever Joey Williamson came in and got right fielder Kelly Muir to pop up to end the inning. 
Notre Dame got a run back in the bottom of the sixth, when Weglarz reached on an error by 

Muir and later scored on a sacrifice fly by Dury. 
Georgetown responded in the eighth with another three runs. After the first two bat­ters of the inning reached base, Silvestri squared to bunt. Notre Dame's infield rushed in expecting a sacri­fice, but Silvestri pulled the bat back and slapped a single right past them to put the Hoyas up 4-1. A sacrifice fly by McLaughlin then put the Hoyas up by four and two straight hits by DeGrijs and Bouchard added another run. 
Pollock and Lilley, who hit in the top two spots in Notre Dame's batting order, accounted for all six of the Irish hits. 
Schrage said the lack of hit· ting was due to too many fly balls, which the cold wind blowing in at Frank Eck Stadium knocked down and turned into easy outs. 
"Today was not the kind of day to hit that way," Schrage said. "It's very disappointing." 

I 17 :3 p 
.::;.,:.. 





<The Career Center, The Graduate Student Union & The Graduate School> 
MORE INfO AT: WWW.PHDCOMlCS.COM 

Monday, April16, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROISSANTWORLD 
BLAcK DoG 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 

Al.R\<:2\-\T, WERE UoNNP>. ~'I -n-ns cot--He.. uP. He.Rr. s DEA.L -'feu~ u ~e. 
MA.,::..tN' our ALL {'A."S~t<:N'i AND STuFF AND \IS <::rE:rlt N' \-1.~ -P~of'LE 
A.fl..'E S-..N Ep..\1 N' -II-\E. N IT'S PAR\et"ALS AND ~E:. C:zU'j SP<."JS r.,..,..,. \TS 
P"R\EIAL-'S -....1-RH.:o\-\T 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

LIAMMORAN

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=+±=+:-r.:-1 26 Change the decor of 
28 Brief tussle For answers, call 1·900·285·5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a29 Like an eagle's credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
vision Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday30 Blunted sword crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
31 Big fat mouths Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 32 Nail to the wall past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 33 Epps of TV's Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
"House" solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Oh, that wasn't the problem. I couldn't hang around his broke ass anymore. He kept making excuses...after the draft this, Oakland Raiders that...bla bla bla. 
63 Give off 64 Knight's mount 65 Borscht 
vegetable 66 D.C. nine, for short 67 Pig voiced by Mel Blanc 
DOWN 1 Begin's 
co-Nobelist 2 Family of lions 3 Broadcaster 4 Cleanses 5 Keebler baker, 
in ads 6 Humanitarian 
Mother 7 Actor Cronyn aSmelter input 9 Edgar Bergen 
dummy_ Snerd 1 o Way past ripe 11 Condo or apartment 12 Noted plus-size model 13 _Xing (sign) 
18 "The Morning Watch" writer James 
23 Clickable screen symbol 25 E-file receiver 

WILLSHORTZ 
Puzzle by Fred Piscop 

34 Chalkboard 45 Small seed 53 Under the writing at a cafe effects of
46 Blue jay toppers38 Emphatic words Novocain
47 It runs from
of agreement 54 Lake named
stem to stern
39 Knighted ones after an Indian 
50 "Ragged Dick" tribe40 Bay of Naples 
writer Horatio
tourist city 55 Red-tag event 42 Hideous sort 51 One iron, in old 56 Trim, as text golf lingo
43 Namath, for 60 Actress most of his 52 Late, on a Thurman career report card 61 AOL, e.g.: Abbr. 
JUMBLE 

JJWJW~IE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LULBY 
± 

©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved.  
DEBIA ±  
NILUKE jI I r  []  
www.jumble.com  
tWROFUR I  
Saturday's  I Jumbles:  TASTY  

Answer: When the maid got a better offer, the matron was -LEFT IN THE "DUST' 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Emma Watson, 17; Emma Thompson, 48; Claudia Cardinale, 69; Roy Clark, 74 
Happy Birthday: Be careful not to take on or promise too much this year. Your problems will stem from running out of time and facing delays and opposition. Be smart and consider that keeping things small and simple will be what leads to your success this year. You can't let your life spin out of control. Your numbers arc 7, 18, 26, 29, 33, 37 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Interacting with others either on the phone, in person or over the Internet will bring about some interesting information that sparks a new idea. You are a pioneer and it's time to break ground in areas that other people have not even considered. 3 stars 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Somehow you have to make some changes in your life. You will feel so much better once you can see you are making progress, especially with children or people who are demanding too much of you. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): If you try to implement change, you are likely to take a backwards step. Everything will cost more and take up more time than you first thought. Someone will try to take advantage of you. so be on guard. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): With a little luck and a whole lot of talent and insight, you will get ahead and gain respect and popularity today. Make changes that will enhance what you have to offer and will enable you to make a profit in the future. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may want to take a trip or attend a conference but consider the cost involved. Instead, do your research over the Internet. Invite friends over to help you with a few changes you want to make around the house. Don't miss out on an opportunity for romance. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): Don't let changes taking place around you cause alarm. Money can be made through real estate, investments, winnings, inheritance or collecting an old debt. Stay calm and in control. 3 stars 
LffiRA (Sepl23-0cl 22): You'll be quick to respond. Travel will help you out where love and romance are concerned. A serious talk with someone you really want to spend more time with will lead to a better understanding of what's to come. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Ocl23-Nov.. 21): If you haven't taken the time to let your family and close friends know how you feel or what you expect, perhaps today is the day. A little honesty will go a long way. Deal with emotional issues now. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Forget about outsiders when it comes to your plans. Go right to the source and you'll find out where you stand and how far you can go. Love looks very promising so let your feelings be known. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your mind will be racing and your ideas flowing freely. Moneymaking opportunities are apparent and making changes that will lead to a more suitable position or direction will be yours. Put your skills to work for you. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): It's what you do for others that will count today. Your motives must be valid. You will only be fooling yourself if you aren't honest about your activities, habits and intentions. Instead of giving lip service, prepare to follow through. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't be fooled by what you are being told. Someone is probably trying to lead you in the wrong direction. Find out what you need to know from a reliable source before you make a decision that could be potentially costly. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, emotional and original. You are channing and candid. You are full of surprises, making snap decisions and unexpected choices. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenia/ast.comjor confidential consultations 

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WH.AT THE: ZOO­KE:E:PE:R WAS ATTRAC.Tt:O TO IN THE: C.ITY. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

(Answers tomorrow) QUAKE HERALD FUTILE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Digging tool 6 MeAn shoes 
10 Felt remorse 14 Israel's Sharon 15 Lira's 
replacement 
16 "Don't Tread _"(old flag warning) 
17 Planter without hired hands 19 Game-stopping call 20 "Zip·_·DOO· Dah" 21 "I didn't know that!" 22 Nervous giggle 
24 Fabrics for towels, robes, etc. 
26 Sukiyaki side 
dish 27 Auto mechanic 32 Nests, for birds 
35 Fall site in Genesis 36 Eco-friendly org. 
37 _ Brothers, who sang "Rag Mop" 
38 Fur tycoon John Jacob 40 Trickle out 41 A Bobbsey twin 42 Leave off 43 Storied engineer Casey 
44 Any member of Nirvana or Pearl Jam 
48 Java dispensers 
49 Take back 
53 Popular drink 
mix 56 Extra-wide, on a shoebox 57 Fitzgerald who knew how to scat 58 Eurasia's Mountains 59 Smear campaigner 62 Race that once had a four­minute barrier 


.-----------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, Aprill6, 2007 
page 24 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

No.2 Notre Dame falls short in top-10 battle 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
Wins over Air Force and Denver help ND set record for victories 
By PAT O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
The Irish beat league rivals Air Force 16-4 Friday and Denver 14-6 Sunday to set the school record of consecu­tive home victories at 12. 
Notre Dame claimed both victories in similar fashion with major second half surges. The Irish were elec­tric after halftime, outscoring the Falcons and the Pioneers by a combined total of 21-4. 
"(The wins] are great," Irish senior midfielder Lucius Polk said. "It was a little pay­back from the road trip last year." 
Notre Dame (8-3, 3-0 Great Western Lacrosse League) used hat tricks from junior midfielder Michael Podgajny, senior attack Brian 
see RECORD/page 21 

History made 
I 
BASEBALL 

Irish take two games fro111 GU 
By CHRIS KHOREY, FRAN 
TOLAN AND DEIRDRE 
KRASULA 
Spons Writers 

Notre Dame's inconsistency continued this weekend as the Irish recorded two blowout victories sandwiched around an ugly loss in a three-game series against Georgetown at Frank Eck Stadium. 
By winning two of three, the Irish ran their record to 17­17 overall and 4-7 in the Big East. 
"We needed to [win a con­ference series] to get back in the race," Irish coach Dave Schrage said. 
Notre Dame 11, Georgetown 
2 

Notre Dame scored 11 runs in the first three innings and 
see HOYAS/page 22 
ND SOFTBALL 

Perfect league record gone with loss to Friars 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's perfect Big East record is history. 
The Irish received their first blemish of the confer­ence season Saturday when they split a road double­header at Providence College. 
Notre Dame (20-14, 9-1 Big East) had run off nine straight victories before falling 9-0 to the Friars in the second half of the double 

BooKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXVI 
Hoopsters pound asphalt 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Bookstore basketball returned to action Sunday afternoon with a full slate of games across eampus. Amid the aetion, a group of Christian, Gwen Stefani­enthusiasts were able to soundly defeat a squad that would have made Jimmy Buffett proud all the way from Margaritaville. And some distant female relatives of Napoleon Dynamite top­pled under its opponents 
see BOOKSTORE/page 22 

By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
Irish freshman Cosmina Ciobanu woke up Friday morn­ing with the flu. 
As a result, she could not play in No. 2 Notre Dame's match against No. 9 Northwestern. 
Without Ciobanu, who holds a 22-0 dual match record, and junior Brook Buck, who has been sidelined the last month with an injury, the Irish fell to the Wildcats 5-2 Friday. 
"We still had some other chances. We had chance to win some other matches, but we played 0 K," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. 

Notre Dame won its other two weekend matches against DePaul and Marquette 7-0 to close out the regular season, but its 16-match winning streak ended at the hands of Northwestern. 
The defeat was the first for the No. 2 Irish (23-2) since their 4-2 loss to No. 4 Georgia Tech in the finals of the ITA National Indoor Tournament Feb. 4. 
The Irish previously defeated the No. 9 Wildcats 4-3 in the semifinals of the National Indoor Feb. 3. 
"''m sure they were probably really fired up when they saw that [Buck and Ciobanu] weren't going to play. I'm sure that made them even more fired up," Louderback said. "But they just played well. The top of their singles played very, very, well [this time]." 
One of the keys to Notre Dame's victory in February was its ability to get the doubles point and take an early 1-0 lead. But this time, the Wildcats pounced out of the gate. 
The No. 13 nationally-ranked tandem of Georgia Rose and Alexis Prousis soundly defeated Notre Dame's No. 8 duo of sen­iors Christian and Catrina 
see WILDCATS/page21 

Irish junior attack Alex Wharton lines up a shot against Denver Sunday. Wharton had two goals to help No. 11 Notre Dame defeat Denver 14-6 and win their 12th consecutive home game. 
dip this weekend. 
After dropping the first game 10-1, the Friars jumped out to an early lead in the second game and never looked back. 
Senior catcher Rachel Bartholomew got things started when she clubbed a pitch over the right field wall with runners on first and second. Bartholomew's blast was the first of three home runs given up by the Irish pitching staff in the game. 
see LOSS/page 20 






