
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 36 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 16,2007 

Group increases election awareness 
NDVotes '08, a new nonpartisan campus campaign, plans to encourage student voter registration 
By KATIE KOHLER Saint Mary's Editor 
With the first presidential primaries only three months away, campus groups have begun to address rates of stu­dent voter registration. Newly formed campus initiative NDVotes'08, a nonpartisan educational campaign spon­sored by the Center for Social Concerns, is spearheading the efforts. 
Senior Mike McKenna, CSC coordinator and NDVotes'08 member, described the coali­tion as "a localized extension" of the Rock the Vote Campaign, a national nonprof­it organization developed to increase political advocacy, especially among young vot­ers. 
The coalition "developed as a task force this fall to give [the voting initiative] more ownership campus-wide," he said. 
NDVotes'08 consists of vari­ous political groups on cam­pus, including College Democrats, College Republicans, ND Right to Life, NAACP and other groups, McKenna said. 
While NDVotes'08 is not affiliated with the national Rock the Vote organization, it shares similar objectives. 
"Our goals are streamlined with Rock the Vote," McKenna said. "We stress education, registration and awareness." 
Political groups on campus have recently jumped onboard with NDVotes'08, but their roles and duties have not yet been specified, said Spencer Howard, co-president of College Democrats. 
The president of College Republicans, Sarah Way, sees the affiliation for NDVotes'08 as an extended effort to regis­ter as many students as possi­ble. 
"This is really a bipartisan effort to get people to care 
enough to vote," she said. "Every vote does count. We, as young Americans, need to start showing concern about our future." 
NDVotes'08 will name dorm commissioners shortly after fall break to maximize the spread of their goals, McKenna said. 
One of the key elements of NDVotes'08 is the voter con­tact card, which will enable the group to compile informa­tion of registered students as well as notify them about voter deadlines, absentee ballot information and local elec­
see ELECTIONS/page 6 
Students take advantage of longer library hours 
that's key." 
While the change was institut­ed in the spring of 2006, word of the late-night midterms hours is still spreading. 
Senior Kaitlin Ramsey said she hadn't known the library was open 24 hours a day during midterms week. Although Ramsey said she is a "night per­son," she was doubtful she would use the library after 2 a.m. 
Parker Ladwig, interim head of Library User Services, said the library has been open 24 hours during midterms for the past three semesters. During that period, he said library atten­dance averaged 120 users at 3 
a.m. 
and around 50 users at 5 

a.m. 
By comparison, library attendance during finals week averaged around 160 users at 3 

m. 
and 75 users at 5 a.m. 


see MIDTERMS/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Mendoza recognized for ethics 
MBA program ranks 5th for stewardship 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
The MBA program at Mendoza College of Business ranks fifth in a biennial international study of stewardship in graduate business schools, according to results announced Oct. 10. 
The Aspen Institute, an inter­national, non-profit organization that seeks to promote "enlight­ened leadership and open-mind­ed dialogue," conducted the study. 
The study ranked business schools not only on the starting salaries of its students and other typical ranking criteria, but also according to the courses taught and research interests of faculty. 
Notre Dame's Catholic charac­ter plays a role in the high rank­ing of the Mendoza MBA pro­gram, said Mary Hamann, direc­tor of communications for Mendoza. 
"There's certainly an acknowl­edgement of the need to look deeply at the impact business decisions have in the world," she said. "At a faith-based institution, we are very comfortable explor­ing these issues." 
In addition to requiring courses that help teach students how to conduct business in a way that promotes social responsibility, Mendoza fosters research that furthers the goals of stewardship throughout the business educa­tion community, she said. 
see MBA/page 4 



Irish official says integration an issue 
ByJENN METZ Assistant News Editor 
John llaskins, the senior Irish government official responsible for immigration policy, opened Monday's panel on the ellects of a changing population in Ireland by quoting Irish author George Bernard Shaw. 
"'We are made wise not by the recollection of our past but by the responsibility of our future,"' I Iaskins said at the panel, which took place in the McKenna Hall auditorium. 
More than 100 years after the height of immigration to America through Ellis Island, some of the problems of integration remain the 
same in the new Ireland, Haskins said. "These are new lives, but thi<; is a historic issue," he said. 
Most of today's immigrants to Ireland originate from Eastern European countries such as Poland and Lithuania, Haskins said. There are also large numbers from China and Africa. 
The overall population of Ireland increased by 10 percent since 2002, as reported by the 2006 cen­sus, Haskins said. The population of non-nationals increased by 90 percent and now includes one in 10 residents, an estimate Haskins called conservative. 
Between 1945 and 1973, Europe underwent a guest worker phase, 
see IRELAND/page 4 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


Editors discuss comic strips 

Executive treasurer Courtney Kennedy, student body president Kim Hodges and vice president Kelly Payne at a BOG meeting Sept. 3. 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Editors of The Observer attended Monday's BOG meeting to discuss student discontent about comic strips published in this paper last week. 
Dissatisfaction over the comic strips, which addressed the new advertising campaign at Saint Mary's and used stereotypes of Saint Mary's students, follow protests at the College about past comics printed in The Observer in recent years. 
Observer Editor-in-Chief Maddie Hanna, Managing Editor Ken Fowler and Saint Mary's Editor Katie Kohler were present at Monday's meeting to answer ques­
see BOG/page 4 


By BRIAN McKENZIE 
News Writer 
To help students prepare for midterms, Hesburgh Library opened Sunday morning and will not close until Friday night. Though late-night usage so far has not been significant, a library security guard said that could change as people grow aware of the extended hours. 
Security monitor Terry Harper said after-hours library use would peak at "a couple hun­dred" people, particularly early today and Wednesday morning. However, his records indicated that there were only 40 people on Monday morning at 3 a.m. and 23 at 5 a.m. 
He anticipated that turnout would increase dramatically as the week progressed. 
"Word's out now," he said. "Everybody knows now, and 
Tuesday, October 16, 2007 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Why 

nlidter111 vveeksucks 

So two days into the week and every­one is already praying for Friday to come to the rescue. It has to be midterm week: possibly the worst week in college life. Mandl Stlrone 
Fall break is looming over­
News

head with the 
Production

promise of a 
Editor

smidgen of peace 
and a ton of 
break homework. 
Stress levels are ridiculously high, and no matter who you talk to, they're more than ready to go home or wher­ever they're going. Students are just hoping they manage to finish that last paper and pass that crazy midterm test so that they can finally try and relax a little. Until then. however. we all have some exciting stuff to look for­ward to. 
Few people escape midterm we11k without pulling at least one all-nightnr, and to eombinll slenp deprivation with crazy stress hwnls is just cruel. It's almost impossible to avoid staring at a computer snenn from 6 p.m. until 4 or 5 a.m. while desperately trying to come up with the next sentnnCf) for a paper that is still two pages short of the requirement. Nothing is worse than a 5 a.m. writer's block or finding out at 2 a.m. the night befor() the test that your dass notns read like a first­grader wrote them. 
All this stress just makns evnryone irritable and downright grumpy. People arn snapping and griping at each other for no appar()nt reason. 
Tm1sions are so high that huge scroaming matches can result out of ridiculously petty disagreements­especially between girls. The high stress levels amplify girls' natural cat­tinoss and make guys more likely to snap at other people. 
And if it isn't bad enough that every­one is stressed out and grumpy, they're all getting sick. Colds and fevers are in abundance everywhere. It's impossible to go into a class where at least half the room is snil'lling, sneezing, cough­ing or shaking from fever. 
or course all this sickness is incredi­bly distracting, not to mention kind of gross, especially if you're the one who's snil'lling, sneezing, coughing and/or shaking from fever. 
It's terrible, you're feeling stressed out and irritable, then you can't breathe and all you want to do is go to sleep and wake up on Saturday morn­ing for the USC game. All that anyone wants to do is fly through this week and conw out on the other end rela­tively unscathed. 
To sum it all up, it sucks. It never ceases to amaze me how much work professors can cram into one week. Papers. tests, quizzes -you name it, they add it to the wBek. It's insanity and it's the worst part of going away to collnge. You get to become incredibly stressed, be crabby, pull all-nighters, get siek, and try to pull ofT papers and big tnsts all in one week. Definitely something to look forward to, right'! 
The views expressed in the Inside C'olumn are those of the author and not necessarily those of'/1w Observer. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at 
astiro()1 @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalisw at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WILL BE YOUR HALLOWEEN COSTUME? 







Jacqueline  Cahill  Jesse Huff  Eunice lkene  Britt Mawby  John Traub  
first year law  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  
Fischer Grad  O'Neill  McGlinn  McGlinn  Stanford  
"A pirate. "  "A punk  "Tracy  "Mrs. Brady  ''A hippie. ,  
rocker. ,  Turnblad."  Quinn. ,  


Freshmen Leslie Allen, left, and Laura Bradley take advantage of the warm weather Monday to begin their midterm studies outdoors. 
OFFBEAT 
Drunken priest punches cop, gets jailed 
MONTERREY, Mexico -A Mexican priest briefly ended up behind bars after punch­ing a policeman who caught him driving drunkenly through the streets of the northern city of Monterrey. 
Priest Manuel Raul Ortega, who was not wearing clerical dress but was clutching a prayer book when captured, launched himself at the traf­fic copy who pulled him over earlier this week. 
The individual became very violent because they were going to tow away his car. He attacked a policeman and was taken away," said transit 
department spokesman Hector Lozano on Thursday. Ortega's papers identified him as a priest. 
Couple scare robber with decorative ax 
CORD, Ark. -A couple thwarted a would-be robber by threatening him with a decorative ax and tearing off his mask before he fled their home, authorities said. 
Frederick Heyde, 25, and Beverly Robison, 26, were startled from sleep at about 
6:30 a.m. Saturday because of a loud noise, authorities said. Heyde told police he saw a man with a handgun inside his home. The man pointed the gun at him and asked for money, authorities said. 
Heyde told the intruder he only had a few dollars in change, which seemed to frustrate the man, police said. 
Heyde's wide then grabbed a decorative ax from the wall and demanded he leave the home. 
"While she had the ax pointed at the intruder, she was able to reach up and claw his mask off. That's when we got a good look at him," Heyde said. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 

There will be a seminar titled "Mieroscale Power Generation and Propulsion: It's Not the Same as Big Devices Made Smaller" today at 3:30 p.m. in 138 DeBartolo Hall. Paul D. Bonney, a professor of aero­space and mnchanieal engineer­ing at USC and former astronaut will prnsent. 
The play "The Kings of Kilburn High Boad" will be pur­formed today at S p.m. at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, Decio Mainstage Theatre. Student tickets are $10. 
Wednesday is International Day for the Eradication of Poverty. Student<; are asked to wear orange MDGS t-shirts on this day to show support for the Millennium Development Goals. There will also be a Mass at 5:15 p.m. in the Basilica to recognize significance of the day. 
The Notre Dame men's soc­cer team will play Indiana University Wednesday at 7 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Poet Michael Anania will present Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Gold Boom of North Dining Hall. Anania will read from his latest work, Heat Unes. 
Scholar Anu Chakravarty will speak about "Surrendering Consent: The Political Consequences of' the Genocide Trials in Bwanda" on Thursday 
from  12:30-2  p.m.  in  the  
Hesburgh  Center  for  
International Studies.  

To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY GAME DAY 
a:: 
LLI 
::::t: 
~ 
LLI 
••• &

3: 
..... 
<C 
(,) 

0 HIGH 53 HIGH 67 HIGH 73 HIGH 63 HIGH 62
...... HIGH 64 LOW 53 LOW 45 LOW 50 LOW 55 LOW 48 LOW 50 
Atlanta 81 I 59 Boston 60 I 46 Chicago 67 I 57 Denver 69 I 33 Houston 87 I 70 Los Angeles 70 I 57 Minneapolis 55 I 48 New York 67 I 52 Philadelphia 72 I 52 Phoenix 87 I 63 Seattle 54 I 48 St. Louis 72 I 58 Tampa 89 I 71 Washington 79 I 50 

Tuesday, October 16, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Task forces address campus changes 
Energy Week, Honor Code, taxi regulations among discussion topics 
ByJENN METZ Assistant News Editor 
Task force reports at Monday's meeting of the Campus Life Council addressed the campus energy summit, treatment of honor codes at peer universities, guidelines for community relations and the rules limit­ing the waiting time of cabs at Main Circle. 
Lauren Sharkey, Hall Presidents Council co-chair, congratulated Student Body Chief Executive Assistant Sheena Plamoottil on the suc­cess of the Oct. 3 energy summit. 
Plamoottil, who was not present at this week's meet­ing, is the chair of the Task Force on Campus Environment. Student body presidrmt Liz Brown present­ed a brief report in her place. 
The Task Force on Campus Environment will assess the effectiveness of the energy summit, the first of three planned summits to take plaee this year, Brown said. 
Student body vice president Maris Braun presented the report by the Task Force on Student Development. 
After meeting with Associate Provost Dennis Jacobs, faculty co-chair of the Notre Dame Code of 
Honor Committee, Braun said looking as a model for the she is working on ideas of creation of such a document how student government can at Notre Dame. help the committee raise Brown added that she has awareness of the Honor Code. been in contact with Virginia 
She discussed the emphasis administrators, who said they placed on the Honor Code at were enthusiastic about freshman orientation. The Notre Dame using the Good 
task force is  Neighbor  
researching  Guide  as  a  
treatment of honor codes at peer insti­ "We,re hoping to move to have a big, symbolic  basis for its own pam-. phlet.  
tutions such a s Washington  statement [on the Honor Code].,,  Gari said the task force is seeking  
and  Lee  short-term  
University,  Maris Braun  solutions  to  
she said.  student body vice president  the  Pro b I em  

"We're hop­ing to move to have a big, symbolic statement," she said, mentioning the idea of a poster or a possible service at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart -where students, as a class, would sign the Honor Code. 
Keenan Hall senator Gus Gari presented the report of the Task Force on Community Relations. He said he met with the chair of the Student Senate's Community Relations Committee to coor­dinate research on relevant topics. 
The task force is continuing to compile research from the University of Virginia's Good Neighbor Guide, to whieh it is 
of taxis on 
campus, and 

it is research­ing the handling of the mat­ter at other universities and colleges to search for a long­term resolution. 
The Committee on University Affairs is looking into the problem of taxis being turned away or ticket­ed at Main Circle, Brown said. 
She mentioned the possibil­ity of setting up taxi stands at two ends of campus. That would create a "system for students to get off campus ... and back to campus safely," she said. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edn 



SAND calendar to coordinate service 
By KRISTEN EDELEN 
News Writer 
With the launch of an online calendar that charts upcoming service events, the many social service groups at Notre Dame have a new resource for collaborating their event planning and gen­eral dialogue. 
This resource, which is now up and running, was created by the newly formed Social Action Notre Dame (SAND) network and can be found on the bottom right corner of the Center for Social Concerns' home page. The calendar shows events through mid­November. 
Gary Nijak and Chris Esber, both juniors, founded the group. 
"The main purpose of this group is to start conversation between all the different organizations that focus on social action and social serv­ice to avoid groups planning events at the same time, and to allow groups to work together on issues," Nijak said. 
Service groups can submit their events to an online cal­endar for the public to view, said Esber, who works in the CSC office. The sharing of information will help organi­zations plan so that service events can be scheduled at times that do not conflict with other events, he said. 
Esber will maintain the cal­endar with the help of juniors Katie Day and Maggie Condit. 
"We seek to bring together groups which previously had no formal conversation," Nijack said. "We can then stimulate conversation and promote efficient and produc­tive events on campus." 
One such collaborative event occurred Sunday, when groups from Notre Dame came together with the Michiana community to sup­port those affected by conflict in Uganda through the Gulu Walk. 
"The Walk is only one example, but it is a good dis­play of what SAND can do," Esber said. 
The idea behind SAND resulted both from Nijak's participation in a national summer leadership program and an idea of Rosie McDowell, the student out­reach coordinator for the CSC. McDowell sought to cre­ate an efficient scheduling network for the many events that occur on and off campus. 
Nijak said many other cam­puses already had systems similar to SAND. 
Contact Kristen Edelen at kedeleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


The Kings of ilburn igh Road 
By Jimmy Murphy 
Tuesday, October 16 and Wednesday, October 17 
8:00 p.m. Decio Theater 
To celebrate the conference,"Race and Immigration in the New Ireland;' the Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies will host two performances of Jimmy Murphy's The Kings ofthe Kilburn High Road in the Decio Theater of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing A.rts on Tuesday, October 16th and \Nednesday, October 17th at S:OO.In this highly acclaimed play, agroup of friends take ahilarious and tragic look back on their lives as they gather in apub twenty-five years after they left their homes in Ireland to make their fortunes in England. The play is the work of Arambe Productions, aprofessional Irish theater company led by director and performance artist Bisi Adigun, who currently has a version of The Playboy ofthe Western World running in the Abbey Theatre, Dublin. 
For more information call the Box Office at 631-2800. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 16, 2007 


Ireland 
continued from page 1 
llm;kins said. He cited a popular quote: "W1~ wanted workers, we got pnoplo." 
Europe as a whole had to invest in widn-ranhring social structure to see if these workers eould inte­grate into society, so policies on immigration and integration need to bn relatnd, he said. 
"Immigration policies define the overall 

on services to newcomers," he said. 
The term integration implies "we are integrating into some­thing," Haskins said, a process that involves "understanding our­selves and cherishing our roots." 
This process is three-fold, he said, including "them under­standing us," "us understanding them" and "us understanding U..'i." 
Haskins, who visited America for the first time this year, referred to a well-known Latin 
saying 
framework within which integration  "Immigration policies define the overall framework within  printed on the one dollar bill:  
works," I htskins said.  which integration works."  E Pluribus  
A balance is therefore  John Haskins  Unum." "It is tak­ 
needed,  he  senior Irish government official  ing many  
said,  and  and creat­ 

"some diflkult decisions have to ing one that works," he said, be made." emphasizing the idea of creating 
The new Ollice of Integration U1e "we" in society. rnflncts what Haskins calls the Ownership of integration nexus of immigration and inte­occurs at societal, institutional, hrration. community and individual levels, 
"All departments must deliver I laskins said. 
Ireland is still in what Haskins called "the newcomer category," because it does not have second­and third-generation non-nation­als. 
"We have good antidiscrimina­tion laws, a good national action plan against racism, a good soda! inclusion infrastructure and have initiated a good inter-faith dia­logue," he said. 
Citizenship, he said, is an essential goal, but there must be precursors to the process, "not just a memory test." 
Philip Watt of the National Consultative Committee on Racism and Interculturalism moderated the panel, titled "The Demographics of the New Ireland." As a part of the "Race and Immigration in the New Ireland" conference presented by the Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies, Monday morn­ing's panel was preceded by opening remarks from Conor Lenihan, Minic;;ter of the Republic of Ireland. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
MBA 

continued from page 1 
"There's a conference that we do each year asking some ques­tions from an ethical perspective that mainstream business researchers should explore," Hamann said. 
Stanford University was the highest-ranked program, fol­lowed by the University of Michigan, York University in Canada, the University of California-Berkley and Notre Dame. Columbia University, Cornell University, Duquesne University, Yale University and the Instituto de Empresa in Spain rounded out the top 10 schools in the ranking. 
The Institute lauded Stanford's courses with an environmental focus. 
The study seeks to discover how the "issues of social impact and social responsibility are men­tioned throughout ilie curriculum, as opposed to being limited to a few select courses," Hamann said. 
The Aspen Institute alc;;o ranked the Notre Dame MBA program fifth in its previous stewardship ranking, released in 2005. 
The rankings are based on "how well prepared [graduates] are to guide a company through the complex relationship of busi­ness and society, where issues relating to the environment or the well-being of a community can inlpact a company's performance and reputation," the Institute said in a statement. 
Although the Aspen Institute does not expect stewardship con­cerns to replace those of post­graduation financial success, it does express a desire for a bal­ance between the two. 
"While graduate business schools are finding the ability to deal wiili such issues an increas­ingly important part of the train­ing for successful business lead­ers, there is still room for innova­tion and inlprovement," the state­ment said. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiemel@nd.edu 
BOG 
continued from page 1 
lions lhr BOG members. 
Student body president Kim Hodgns said BOG sought to learn morn about The Observer's proem;s bnhind pubiLo.;hing r,omics. 
"Wn wanted to fmd out the eh<m­nels in which artides, specifically comic strips, are channeled and what could be changed," Kim !lodges, Saint Mary's student body president. said after the meeting Monday. 
BOC members said they would like to see Ute Saint Mary's editor reviewing content pertaining to Saint Mary's bnlim~ it is publishnd. 
"We are looking into gathering morn input from our Saint Mary's staffers," IIanna said later Monday night. 

At least some Saint Mary's stu­dents feel their identity has come under attaek. 
"We want to defend our honor as Saint Mary's women," Ilodges said. 
Hodges said she and other BOG members wanted to support stu­dents who were offended by the comic strips. 
"We understand that the entire student body doesn't feel the same way," she said. "We are advocating on the behalf of the students who do not want to be viewed as iliat type of character." 
I Ianna emphasized iliat opinions of the comics' authors were not reflections of the opinions of the paper. 
"Our cartoonists often express views that arn not necessarily the for Thought" meeting. It will take place Oct. 17 at 6 p.m. in the West Wing of the College's dining hall. Barry Bowles, general manager of dining facilities, will answer ques­tions and take suggestions. 
+ 
Cassie Quaglia, president of the Residence Hall Association, said trick or treating and Haunted Holy Cross will be held on Oct. 29 from 6 p.m. to8. 

Le Mans Hall Council will hold the Le Mans Murder Mystery on Oct. 31 at 8 p.m. in Stapleton tounge.

+ 
Mary Frantz, Missions Coordinator, spoke about this week's Theology on Fire lecture, 


"Life's More than a Wedding: Spirituality for Single Life and Marriage." The discussion will be Wednesday at 8 p.m. in ilie Student Lounge of the Student Center. Anita Houck, an associate professor in ilie department of religious studies, will present.
+ "Recycled Percussion" will take place at Saint Mary's on Oct. 30, said Cassie Calion, president of the Student Activities Board. "Recycled Percussion" is a musical group currently performing its "Man vs. Machine Tour." 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

views of the staff," she said. Hodges said she does not dislike The Observer as a whole. 
"The Observer is viewed in a good light, as they do represent both the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame campuses," Hodges said. 
Hodges said she feels the meeting was productive. She said BOG is working to create forums between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women to "deconstruct the precon­ceived notions on both sides." 
In other BOG news: 

+ Kelly Fiela, president of Fiela­Smith Corporation, presented pro­motional products that she said could help BOG increase involve­ment in campus activities. 
+Hodges said Sodexho, the food services provider at Saint Mary's, will be iliB topic of the next "Food 

Abit ofIreland in your own backyard. 
' s 


Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, heartyfood and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. f-\.nd we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(WaterlUrd Estates Lodge has hatel rooms at reasonable ratestt)r upc:oming ND fOotball weekends.) 







ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, October 16, 2007 CoMPILED FROA,, TI-H OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Mother stops suicide attack in Kabul 
KABUL, Afghanistan -A mother who tried to stop her son from carrying out a suicide bomb attack triggered an explosion in the family's home in southern Afghanistan that killed the would-be bomber, his mother and three siblings, police said Monday. 
The would-be bomber had been studying at a rnadrassa. or religious school, in Pakistan, and when he rPturned to his home in Uruzgan province ovPr the weekend announced that he planned to carry out a suicide attack, Interior Ministry spokesman Zemeri Bashary said. 
Surviving family memb11rs told police that the suicide vest exploded during a struggle between the mother and her son, said Juma Gul I Iimat. Uruzgan's police ch iel'. Thn man's brother and two sistnrs were also killed. 
Planes crash on runway at Heathrow 
LONDON -Two planes collided while taxi­ing on a runway at London's Heathrow Airport Monday night. telnvision reports said. There were no reported injuries. 
Sky News television, citing witnesses it did not further identify. said one of two aircraft involVf1d had lost an engine. 
The British Broadcasting Corp. identified the two planes as a British Airways Boeing 747 and a Sri Lankan Airlines A340 and said their wingtips had collided. It added that all the passnngers were evacuated from the aircraft. 
Sky said there were about 20 fire trucks at the scene. BAA PLC. which manages Heathrow, could not immediately be reached for comment. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Medtronic difibrillator wires faulty 
MINNEAPOLIS -Medtronic Inc. is stopping distribution of wires that connect some of its delibrillators to patients' hearts after learning they may have contributed to five deaths. 
Medtronic shares dropped more than 12 per­cent by midday Monday after the disclosure. 
A defibrillator monitors a patient's heart­beat; if it senses an abnormal heart rhythm, it delivers an electronic shock to reset the heart to a normal beat. A delibrillation system con­sists of a device implanted near the shoulder with one or more leads connecting the device to the heart. 
Medtronic said it discovered a "small chance of fractures in particular locations" on Sprint Fidelis models 6930, 6931, 6948 and 6949. The company is asking doctors to stop implant­ing the leads and return unused leads to Medtronic. 

Georgia, South hit hard with drought 
BUFOHD. Ga. -If there's a ground zero for the epic drought that's tightening its grip on the South, it's once-mighty Lake Lanier, the Atlanta water source that's now a relative pud­dle surrounded by acres of dusty red clay. 
Tall measuring sticks once covered by a dozen feet of water stand bone dry. "No Diving" signs rise from rocks 25 feet from the water. Crowds of boaters have been replaced by men with metal detectors searching the arid lake bed for lost treasure. 
"This lake is a survivor," Jeff "Buddha" Powell told a worried customer at his bait shop along the barren banks. 
"If you panic, you don't help Mother Nature," he added. "It's going to rain when it rains." 
LOCAL NEWS 

Police being sued by angry parents 
HAMMOND, Ind. -The parents of a teenag­er who died after a car crash sued Gary police for $50 million Monday, saying oflicers' deci­sion not to look for their son robbed him of a chance of surviving. 
Willie and Jacqueline Green of Gary said they do not believe their 18-year-old son, Dominique, died instantly from the multiple injuries he suffered in the crash, as authori­ties have said. They said at a news conference that a mortician has told them that bruising, swelling and other signs of injury on their son's body was not consistent with an instan­taneous death. 
"The city did nothing, the police did noth­ing," said Jacqueline Green. 
BRAZIL 


New dinosaur species uncovered 
Skeleton of monstrous vegetarian that roamed earth 88 million years ago discovered 
Associated Press 
RIO DE JANEIHO -The skeleton of what is believed to be a new dinosaur species-a 105-foot plant­eater that is among the largest dinosaurs ever found -has been uncov­ered in Argentina, scien­tists said Monday. 
Scientists from Argentina and Brazil said the Patagonian dinosaur appears to represent a pre­viously unknown species of Titanosaur because of the unique structure of its neck. They named it Futalognkosaurus dukei after the Mapuche Indian words for "giant" and "chief," and for Duke Energy Argentina, which helped fund the skeleton's excavation. 
"This is one of the biggest in the world and one of the most complete of these giants that exist," said Jorge Calvo, director of the paleontology center at the National University of Comahue, Argentina. He was lead author of a study on the dinosaur published in the peer-reviewed Annals of the Brazilian Academy of Sciences. 

Scientists said the giant herbivore walked the Earth some 88 million years ago, during the late Cretaceous period. over 43 feet tall, and the limit for dinosaur size," added in a phone inter­
Since the first bones excavated spinal column Wilson added. "There are view. "Dinosaurs do get big were found on the banks of weighed about 9 tons when some that are bigger but here, but nothing near the Lake Barreales in the excavated. One neck verte­they all top out around this proportions we see in Argentine province of bra alone measured more size." South America." Neuquen in 2000, paleon­than 3 feet high. Patagonia also was home The site where tologists have dug up the Jeff Wilson, an assistant to the other two largest Futalognkosaurus was dinosaur's neck, back professor of paleontology dinosaur skeletons found to found has been a bonanza region, hips and the first at the University of date -Argentinosaurus, at for paleontologists, yielding vertebra of its tail. Michigan, who was asked around 115 feet long, and more than 1,000 speci­
''I'm pretty certain it's a to review the finding, said Puertasaurus reuili, 115 mens, including 240 fossil new species," agreed Peter he was impressed by the feet to 131 feet long. plants, 300 teeth and the Mackovicky, associate sheer amount of skeleton Comparison between the remains of several other curator for dinosaurs at recovered. three herbivores, however, dinosaurs. Chicago's Field Museum, "I should really try to is difficult because scien­"As far as I know, there who was not involved with underscore how incredible tists have only found few is no other place in the the discovery. ''I've seen it is to have partial skele­vertebrae of Puertasaurus, world where there is such some of the remains of ton of something this size," and while the skeleton of a large and diverse quanti­Futalognkosaurus and it is Wilson said in telephone Futalognkosaurus (FOO-ta­ty of fossils in such small truly gigantic." interview. "With these kind long-koh-SOHR-us) is fairly area. That is truly unique," 
Calvo said the neck alone of bones you can't study complete, scientists have said Alexander Kellner, a must have been 56 feet them by moving them not uncovered any bones researcher with the long, and by studying the around on the table; you from its limbs. Brazilian National Museum vertebrae, they figured the have to move around them North America's and co-author of the tail probably measured 49 yourself." dinosaurs don't even com­dinosaur's scientific feet. The dinosaur reached "It shows us the upper pare in size, Mackovicky description. 


Nevv study to see if genes affect sexuality 
height and hair co.lor, said Julio, a sexual orientation tends to cluster in student at DePaul University in families, though that doesn't prove Chicago. genetics is involved. Extended fami­

CHICAGO -Julio and Mauricio Adds his brother, "I think it would lies may share similar child-rearing Cabrera are gay brothers who are help a lot of folks understand us bet­practices, religion and other beliefs convinced their sexual orientation is ter." that could also inf1uence sexual ori­as deeply rooted as their Mexican The federally funded study, led by entation. ancestry. Chicago area researchers, will rely on Research involving identical twins, 
They are among 1 ,000 pairs of gay blood or saliva samples to help scien­often used to study genetics since brothers taking part in the largest tists search for genetic clues to the they share the same DNA, has had study to date seeking genes that may origins of homosexuality. Parents and mixed results. influence whether people are gay. straight brothers also are being One widely cited study in the 1990s The Cabreras hope the findings will recruited. found that if one member of a pair of help silence critics who say homosex­While initial results aren't expected identical twins was gay, the other had uality is an immoral choice. until next year-and won't provide a a 52 percent chance of being gay. In 
If fresh evidence is found suggest­final answer -skeptics are already contrast, the result for pairs of non­ing genes are involved, perhaps attacking the methods and disputing twin brothers, was 9 percent. A 2000 homosexuality will be viewed as no the presumed results. study of Australian identical twins different than other genetic traits like Previous studies have shown that found a much lower chance. 
Associated Press 

page 6 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 16, 2007 

Midter01s 
continued from page 1 
Thn main cost of k1wping the library op1111 during the prn-nxam days is stafling. Ladwig said. 
lin dndirwd to nstimatn the 1~ost bneausn hn said University stall' salary inlimnation is not generally rnlnw-md. 
"If the library worn opmwd 24 hours morn frnqtwnlly, sneurity for visitors and eollnctions might havo to be lookml at difl'l~rnntly, pnrhaps with gn~atnr cost." hn said. 
Snnior .In· I toll Hoi{nrs said lw stays "prntty oftPn until dosing." At tho library, ho said, "it's nasior to focus, a lwttor study nnviron­nwnt with li~wnr distractions." 
Though Hognrs' workload this wonk might not bo enough to war­rant al'tPr-hours studying, lm said ho "dnlinitPiy would have been thorn aftnr 2 a.m." if' the library had bonn opnn latn last wonk. 
Carol llnndrickson, chair of lim Studnnt Senate /\cademk /\ll'airs Cornmittne, said Snnatn "hasn't really focusnd on rnidtorrns" bnsidos compiling a report on study spacn. She said that the report "in efi'ect will potentially hnlp with midtnrms." 
Sonate is working to increase and improvo study spac1~s and printer availability, she said. 


Elections 
continued from page 1 
tions. 
Whiln coalition members nllled local elections important, they arnn't the group's priority. NDVotes'OH is foeusing on national elnctions, McKenna said, nspecially with the top­heavy primary season in January and February. 
Local nlnetions tend to draw less attention, Way said. 
"People trmd to see the loc,al nlnetions as not as important," shn said. "Most students plan to !nave South Bend in a few years and don't earn to get involved in loeal polities. If students knnp taking this attitude, the community will havn less of a rnason to show eoneern for our 

"The new library cluster is nxtrnmely busy," sho said. "Espndally during midterms, a lot of pnoplo have papnrs due and thnrn's a line liJr printers bntwmm dm;sos in DeBartolo." 
llnndriekson said she hoped stu­d£ml. aecnss to study spaces and printors would improve al't.er the Univorsity recnived the Senate's 
rn1~11mmendations. 
In January of 2006, the Studnnt Senato moved to have tho library opnn 24 hours per day during rnidtnrms week after consulting with library administrators and nxamining practices at peor insti­tutions, llondriekson said. She said that "somn students on thn eommittnn had gone to other uni­versities" where libraries were opnn 24 hours f(Jr midterms. 
While snnior Mary !Iannan said shn apprm~iatnd that tho library was opnn, she worrind there wa.•> "a ddieatn balance between being welcoming to studenl'> and keep­ing the University's resources salil." 
Using fliers to advertisn study areas that were open 24 hours, IIannan said, could "let anyone waltz in" and take valuable equip­ment. Shn suggested that a mass P.-rnail could inform the student body and minimize thP. risk of thl~l't. 
Contact Brian McKenzie at bmckenzi@nd.edu 
Education program. 
"Through CSC, we were able to bring all thn political groups on eampus together," McKenna said. "By promoting soeial jus­tice, we can take a stand as cit­izens." 
Hnpresentatives from each group participating in NDVotes'08 will meet biweekly after officers and dorm corn­missioners are chosen. 
"Essentially, all membership is through coalition," McKenna said. 
NDVotes'08 is hoping to add to the individual success of political groups on campus in increasing registration. 
"We've always been success­ful in sending volunteers to participate in [Democratic,] can­didates' campaigns, whether it's working in their ol'l1ces or doing phone banking for them," 
nneds." "Our goals are to build a Howard said. l.ocal elec­"Just letting
strong coalition to last for 
tions rnmain people know

future years so political
rnlevant even there is an to politically dialogue is elevated and eleetion disengaged going on."

students can increase
students, Way also

their civic responsibility 
Howard said. h o p e s 
"P eo pIe on campus. NDVotes'08 here arn from will spring­all around the board higher
Mike McKenna

country and registration
NDVotes'08 member 
the world and within her 
they probably know their own loeal dis­trict well," he said. "But the truth is that while they're here, even if thny're part of tho Notrn Dame bubble, the local elnc­tions and the local govnrnmnnt afTncts them so they should beeomn involved in it." 
lloward mnntiorwd the reeent South Bend event permit ordi­nance as one nxample of loeal polities all'ec,ting student lifo. 
NI>Votes'OH developml out of partrwrships with the Hock the Vote and other national organi­zations, McKnmHt said. 
"Our goals are to build a strong coalition to last for futuro years so political dia­logue is nlnvatnd and students ean incrnase their dvie respon­sibility on campus," hn said. 
NI>Votns'OH falls under the umbrella ol' tlw Centnr for Soeial Concerns' Justiee organization. 
"Success in 

the past has been mixed," she said. "Those wh1i really care about polities are proactive in making sure they are registered. Many peo­ple simply don't care enough." 
With the elections rapidly approaching, NDVotes'08 is "continuously building." 
"Hight now, we are trying to emphasize our nonpartisan coalition on campus by includ­ing dif'f'prent perspectives and backgrounds of each political group and viewpoints," McKenna said. "It is a unique thing happening at Notre Dame and something we ean be proud of." 
Marcela Berrios contributed to Ihis report. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkholeO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Trying to decide which way to take your career? At Ernst &Youn~ you'll gain invaluable experience delivering quality services to world·class clients. And with each new challenge, you'll take another step towards agreat future. So join ateam where all signs point to your growth and success... and keep moving in the right direction. 
Visit us at ey.com;us;careers and our Facehook.com group. 
FORTUNE' 100 BEST 


r~~~:~~~~ 
#25 on the list 
U.S. AIR FORCE 

Azerbaijani Bengali Cambodian Chinese Hausa Hindi Indonesian 
~ 

Japanese Tuition assistance ~ 
Kazakh Monthly living allowance Malay Officer commissionPashtu 
See the world.
Persian Russian Serb-Croatian Swahili Thai Turkish Uighur Urdu-Punjabi Uzbek Vietnamese 

If you speak any of these foreign languages or are currently learning one, we have countless opportunities awaiting you in Air Force ROTC. 
Call1-866-4AF-ROTC or visit AFROTC.COM. 



Tuesday, October 16, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 13,984.80 -108.28
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 

2,008 125 1,224 2,791,893,335 
AMEX NASDAQ 2,780.05 -25.63 NYSE l0.216~~9 r itl!1~·, S&P 500 1,548.71 -13.09 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 17~358~~-~'> .~,;pq FTSE 100 (London) 6,644.50 -86.20 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.84 -1.32 155.01 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.77 -0.41 53.12 LEVEL 3 COMM INC (LVLT) -11.02 -0.54 4.36 CITIGROUP INC (C) -3.41 -1.63 46.24 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.30 -0.014 4.673 13-WEEK BILL +1.96 +0.080 4.160 30-YEAR BOND +0.04 +0.002 4.907 5-YEAR NOTE -0.52 -0.023 4.390 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.44 86.13 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +8.40 762.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.45 85.25 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 117.425 EURO 0.7039 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9762 BRITISH POUND 0.4895 

IN BRIEF Social Security to be put to the test 
WASIIINGTON -The baby boomers' stam­pede for Social Security benefits has begun. 
The nation's "first" baby boomer, a retired teacher from New Jersey, applied for Social Security benefits Monday, signaling the start of an expected avalanche of applications from the post World War II generation. 
Social Security Commissioner Michael Astrue called it "America's silver tsunami." 
Kathleen Casey-Kirschling applied for ben­efits over the Internet at an event hosted by Astrue. Casey-Kirschling was born one sec­ond after midnight on Jan. 1, 1946, gaining her rP.cognition as thP. first baby boomer -a generation of nearly 80 million born from 1946 to 1964. Astrue said. 
"She's leading the way for her generation." Astrue told reporters. 

Bacon painting sells for $16.4 million 
LONDON -A Francis Bacon painting the artist donated to an art college in lieu of rent decades ago has sold for $16.4 million at an auction where solid but unspectacular results suggest global financial turmoil may be unsettling the art market. 
"Study from the Human Body, Man Turning on the Light" was bought late Sunday by an anonymous bidder at Christie's auction house. The painting was giv11n by Bacon to the Hoyal College of Art in 1969 as payment for renting a studio, and th11 collegp, sold it Sunday to fund a new campus in south London. 
This month's London auctions are being closely watched for signs that after sever­al years of rising prices, the red-hot art market may be cooling. 
The price paid for the Bacon painting, which includes a buyer's premium, was in the middle of Christie's pre-sale estimate of $14 million to $18 million. 
Fine-art insurer Hiscox says the value of contemporary art sold at auction rose by 55 pnrcent during the first six months of the year. But many fear the weak dollar and fallout from the subprime mortgage crisis will hit prices. 
------------------------------------, 


THE OBSERVER 








USINESS 
page 7 
fRANCE 

Airbus releases world's largest jet 
Almost two years late, the A380 superjumbo premieres on Singapore Airlines 
Associated Press 
TOULOUSE -Nearly two years late, Airbus finally delivered its first A380 superjumbo on Monday, a revolutionary behemoth that includes luxury suites equipped with comfy double beds. 
Customer Singapore Airlines says the passen­ger jet, the world's largest, was worth the wait, and the delivery marks a badly needed morale-boosting mile­stone for Airbus. 
Singapore Airlines Chief Executive Chew Choon Seng said his airline was inconvenienced by the late delivery, but added, "We are glad that Airbus took the time to make sure that the plane is fully tested and developed before it enters commer­cial service." 
For Airbus, big chal­lenges with the problem­ridden plane still lie ahead-not least produc­ing enough of them. 

"Increasing A380 pro­duction to meet demand remains our greatest challenge for the next years," Chief Executive Thomas Enders said at a handover ceremony at Airbus' headquarters in Toulouse, southwestern but what is guaranteed in plane. Chicago-based planemak­France. life?" Tom Williams, Airbus er still has a five-year 
After delivering the first Lack of a sure-thing executive vice-president lead over Airbus for its four superjumbos to might not go down well for programs, said diffi­competing mid-sized jet, Singapore Airlines, Airbus with Airbus' 16 customers culties with the engine the A350 XWB, which has will have to redesign cab­for the A380, whose could push the first flight been set back by multiple ins and electrical layouts patience has already been of the turbo-prop back six redesigns. for Emirates Airlines and stretched, nor with poten­months. If the European Airbus has already been Qantas. It is committed to tial converts. With 189 planemaker is late deliv­hit with penalties for late handing over 13 planes in orders or firm commit­ering, "clearly it's not delivery of the A380, 2008, 25 in 2009, and 45 ments, Airbus is hoping to going to be cheap," he whieh combined with spi­in 2010. see 200 on its books by told journalists. raling development costs 
Asked if he was confi­year-end. U.S. rival Boeing Co. is wiped billions of euros dent that Airbus is up to Meanwhile, it looks like late too, announcing a (dollars) off profits. the challenge, Enders Airbus is having problems six-month delay last week Enders refused Monday to said: "We have every con­with its next big project­to its hot-selling 787 divulge the extent of the fidence we can deliver, the A400M military cargo Dreamliner. But the losses. 


America Online to slash 2,000 workers 
AOL believes it is now best at keting personnel as AOL opted to
Associated Press 

developing Web sites such as its stop producing and distributing its 
Moviefone and MapQuest properties notorious trial discs aimed at luring 
NEW YORK -AOL is eliminating to attract people in some 30 coun­new subscribers. another 2,000 jobs worldwide as it tries, Falco said. Its goal, he said, is The latest cuts are expected to tries to cut costs and make room to to build "the largest and most affect employees across the board. grow in online advertising. sophisticated global advertising net­Last month, AOL announced that it 
The 20 percent slice from AOL's work" for marketers to reaeh that was consolidating its advertising work force comes after several online audienee. operations to share innovations· rounds of layoffs in recent years, AOL, once the leading seller of across the company and help poten­ineluding a cut of 5,000 jobs last fall. Internet aeeess subscriptions, has tial advertisers more easily buy ads. The latest cuts would give AOL more struggled in recent years as Internet The idea is to help marketers flexibility to expand ad-related busi­users have ditched their AOL reach Internet users not only across nesses through acquisitions and aecounts for high-speed services AOL properties but also at outside potentially new hires, company offi­offered by cable and telephone com­sites for which AOL now brokers ad cials said. panies. sales. 
"This realignment will allow us to To make up for declines in sub­In a memo to employees obtained inerease investment in high-growth scription revenues, the company has by The Associated Press. Falco areas of the company-as an exam­been trying to boost traffic to its ad­described the latest cuts as difficult ple, we added hundreds of people supported Web sites and last year but necessary. this year through acquisitions -began giving away AOL.com e-mail AOL has acquired a number of while sealing back in areas with less accounts. software and other fea­companies in recent months and growth potential or those that aren't tures once reserved for paying sub­added to its payroll each time. The core to our business," AOL Chief scribers. purchase of ad-targeting technology Executive Handy Falco told employ­Last year's job reductions were specialist Tacoda Ine., for example, ees Monday. mostly in customer-service and mar-brought in about 100 employPes. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, October 16, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Catholics and dissent 
1~0. Box n9. Notre Dame, IN 465S6 024 South Dining flail. Notre Dame, IN 465S6 
EDITOR IN CIIIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowlt·r Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle C:assily 
AssT. MANA<;ING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: jot·y King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris !line SCENE EDITOR: 'E1c Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AI> DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(S74) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6j 1-4541 obsrne@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 63!-5303 viewpoint.I@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.!@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(57 4) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the 
Back when I wasn't so pessimistic and grouchy, I was very interested in getting married. I'd only marry a Catholic, since it didn't make sense to fmter into a sacrament with someone who didn't under-
Greg
stand it in the same 
Yatarola
way. Besides, I'd want my kids raised 
Dome and 
Catholic, and they'd 
Domer 
never get it from me. 
I'm not ashamed that one reason I picked Notre Dame was to find a wife -with so many Catholie girls, there was sure to be one stupid enough to like me. I know some girls at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's get ridiculed for being extra-eager to find a hus­band-the "M.R.S. degree." This makes no sense to me. !low is it in any way shameful to be more interested in finding a spouse than getting a diplo­ma? Which, ultimately, is more impor­tant? 
So it saddfms me that there aren't more graduation-weddings. It's a prob­lem that people wait so long to marry these days in general. For one thing, the Church has traditionally under­stood the primary end of marriage to be the protection of chastity, This is dear in St. Paul's writings (e.g., 1 Cor 
7) and later in St. Thomas Aquinas. Most people, men especially, can't achieve celibate chastity and couldn't even if they were at all inclined to try. Besides lots of grace, it takes strenu­ous effort of the soul, constant vigi­lance, discipline, and a determination to keep getting back up no matter how many times you fall. These are very manly qualities, yet somehow much of our society considers it manlier to be a slave to pleasure (which always is emasculating) and one's desires than to disdain them. So anyway, if people wait until they're 30 to marry, that usually means they spend their twen­ties habitually sinning against chastity. Bad enough in itself, and certainly not good preparation for marriage. 
Well, I was sort of new to 

Catholicism when I came to Notre 
Dame, and somewhat naive. I assumed 
Catholic meant Catholic. Now, one 
potential major problnm (obviously) in 
marriages between Catholics and non­
Catholics, or between Catholics with 
different understandings or being 
Catholic. is the issue of contraception. 
Since getting attached to someone you wouldn't marry is foolish, I had to get girls' opinions before potentially becoming interested in them. I figured out pretty quick that not all -not even most, I'd say-self-described Catholic girls at Notre Dame agree with the Church's teaching on contra­ception. I knew about as many who supported it as were categorically opposed to it, though that probably reflected the kind of people I was around. 
My point isn't that contraception is wrong. See Paul VI and Janet Smith for that. Nor am I saying shame on Notre Dame kids for supporting or using it. We all must form and follow our consciences ourselves. No, what I'd like to explain is how dumb it is to say you're Catholic and yet support contraception. 
The Church, particularly in the per­son of the pope, makes outrageous claims about itself. The bishops in solemn assembly, or the pope ex cathe­dra, say they're infallible about faith and morals. That means never wrong. That means not even capable of being wrong. If you believe the Church is in error in its formal announcements about contraception, you can't very well at the same time agree that it's infallible. So why swear any allegiance to a church which doesn't know-or worse, knows but won't admit-the truth about itself? If it can't be believed about itself, how can it be believed when it proclaims other out­rageous doctrines, like the Atonement, Real Presence, or the Trinity? The Church claims to speak with the voice of its Founder. If it does, it deserves full assent. If it doesn't, it's a great big blasphemous fraud that deserves noth­ing but hatred and opposition. 
If you recognize this argumnnt as liko C.S. Lewis about Christ, good eyn. But I thought of it myself. when all I knnw about Lewis was Narnia. I say this not to brag but to show that any­one could think of it. Obviously, the argument holds for any issue, but I apply it to contraeeption beeause dis­sent on that matter is particularly widespread and vehement. 
I'm not telling anyone to leave the Church any more than I was telling anyone to leave Notre Dame before. But if I was puzzled about people opposed to Catholie doctrine staying at Notre Dame, I'm dolinitely confusml about such people staying in the Church. And so what if you're a priest or teach Catholic theology. 
Am I saying a Catholic has to believe whatever the Church teaches authori­tatively? Pretty much, yeah. Does a Catholic have to aetually live whatnvnr the Church tPaches? Hardly-if that were the case, there would bn no Catholics. Failing to live up to our faith is part of being Catholic, but we must try to change our lives to lit our beliefs, not the othnr way around. 
About 85 pnrcent of Notre Dame stu­dents consider themselves Catholic. Just about all who are admitted are very intelligent. And I'd bet almost as many think the Church is wrong about one thing or another. These three dots can't be connected logieally. I know I have no right to tell others whether they should be Catholic or not, but I'd seriously like to know -if you dis­agree with the Church, why not just leave it? I know I would. 
Greg wishes to congratulate the rugby team on being re-instated,and wishes them best ofluck in getting banned again. He can be contacted at gregpy@hotmail. com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Universiry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverrisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither EDITORIAL CARTOON institution. The Observer reserves the right to rdiL5e adverrisemenrs based on content. 
The ntws is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned ediwrials represent the opinion of the majoriry ofthe Ediror in Chief, Managing Editor, A.sistant Managing Editors and department edimrs. ( :ommenrarics, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofTbe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free t·xpression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact in!ormarion. 
Qr1miow "garding Obsrrvrr policits should b~ dirrcud to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
"l'l1r tlbo,t<rvn (USPS 11199 l-4000) i• puhl1sh~:d Mun<lo~y d1ruuit1• rrid"y exu:pt dunng l"ll301 ~tul v.Jl'.Ui<lll ~ICTutd. A t.~lh'lo(;nptilm In Thl:' (l('llK."rvcr i1 S:l (}() lur om· .ll.ltlrmil 
vc::tr. S'5S(urnnc:ICIII~t"t 
Ihe clhoocrver is puhli~hc:d 11 P< )STMASTER 
1124 .~>uth llu1mg ~I .all Send J<ldre.u corrt'Ctitlm w: 
Nnur t>.un.:, IN 4f.')"iCt-0'77•J 'Iltc Oh'iCrvtr 
l'cnntltc.tl JHIII~C' p;ud .u Noire D.lmt ro Box 779 
~nr.l ;u.lditwtl.ll m.ulin~ utfK;a. 024 Sumh Dinini' flJ/1 
Nnm.: D.unc, IN •IM%·0779 
·r he OllSCrWr ~~ .t /111;'1111~ "I rhc ~..:t.m:.! l'rcS~o. Allicprodw..riuun~f' .m· n::ltt"rvnl. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Karen Langley Francis Tolan Bohan Anand Michael Bryan 
Nikki Taylor Andy Ziccarelli 
Graphics Scene 
Matt lludson Chris McGrady 
Tae Andrews 
Viewpoint 
Michelle Johnson 




QUOTE OF THE DAY
OBSERVER POLL 

Subrnit a Letter
Who should be the starting 

':4 person reveals his character by

quarterback? 

nothing so much as the joke he · 
resents."

to the"", Editor at
":".:<·:~.---?~+ 

Georg Christoph Lichtenberg author
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 


at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
Tuesday, October 16, 2007 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Enough is enough 

The Observer claims to serve Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. But, how well can it serve Saint Mary's when its contributors, up to and including Rich Protiva and Andy Spangler of "Tastes Like Failure," continually disparage the women who attend Saint Mary's? 
I am a graduate of Notre Dame who has worked at Saint Mary's for more than a decade. During my time on both sides of Route 933, I have seen and heard Saint Mary's women put down and abused by their Notre Dame neighbors. You think you're being clever or self righteous, but I have to tell you, the comments just get more bitter and vile as the years go by. And they get old. Your hate speech reveals not only a lack of maturity and good taste, but often outright misogyny. It includes not only the cartoons, but also letters 
to the editor that begrudge Saint Mary's par­ticipation in the "Notre Dame community." Obviously, the editors of the Observer either: 
1) are unwilling or unable to control the degrading content in the paper; or 2) condone the anti-Saint Mary's content. Either way, I am ashamed to see this is still happening 20 years after I graduated. You belittle your­selves and our university's reputation by con­tinuing to resurrect these offensive stereo­types and misconceptions. Enough is enough. It's time to grow up, Notre Dame, and show some class. 
Elizabeth Karle Class of 1985 Sourh Bend Oct. 15 

TV ti111e-outs a disruption 
Notre Dame's exclusive television contract with NBC is a testament to the strength and national following of the football program. While the University should continue the relationship with NBC, it needs to be restructured, specifically with regard to the excessive amount of time­outs that destroy momentwn and quiet the stadium. During the Boston College game I attended, it was quite remarkable to hear the amount of boos whenever an NBC time-out was called. I am sure that Notre Dame and NBC can find a middle ground that includes fewer time-outs for less money. 
Dan Quirk Class of 1999 San Francisco, Cali£ Oct.15 


Learn the lyrics 
Dear fellow members of the Notre proudly singing the greatest of all uni­ing of the fight song, and play it as you Notre Dame will win over all I While Her Dame and Saint Mary's community versity fight songs, the "Notre Dame read the following lines: "Rally, Sons of loyal Sons go marching onward to (especially freshmen): The road portion Victory March." Sadly, we don't all know Notre Dame I Sing Her glory and sound Victory!" of this year's football schedule is over for the "Victory March." Of course, we all Her fame I Raise Her Gold and Blue And So on Saturday, put your game face on. the most part, and we've embarked on a know the part that starts "Cheer, Cheer sing with voices true I Rah! Rah! For Rub on those tattoos, color your hair five-game home stretch. There's nothing for old Notre Dame," but there is also a Notre Dame (U RAH RAH!) I We will fight green, or dress up like the leprechaun. like a Notre Dame home game, and this first verse. Fellow freshmen, you may or in every game I Strong of heart and true But remember: above all we must come community prides itself on the environ­may not have noticed that while our sec­to Her name I We will ne'er forget Her together to show our support for our ment it creates on these autumn tions sing "shake down the thunder," our and I We'll cheer Her ever loyal to Notre team, "what tho' the odds." Saturdays-the environment we create. sophomore, junior, and senior compatri­Dame I Cheer, Cheer for old Notre Dame! 
As such, we must form a united front ots bellow "U RAH RAH!" What's up with I Wake up the echoes cheering Her name Joann Norell as a student body that is formidable to that? The tune to the first verse is simi­I Send a volley cheer on high I Shake freshman each and every opponent. This includes lar to, but not the same as, the second. I down the thunder from the sky! I What McCandless Hall -as I'm sure you know-knowing and strongly urge you, now, to find a record-tho' the odds be great or small I Old Oct. 9 

Albu111 goes back to roots 

In reading the Scene review of Dashboard Confessional's new album, "The Shade of Poison Trees" (Oct. 11), was disappointed to see that Miss Shaffer had failed to do her homework on the band's intentions for the album. 
Though the album is, admittedly, not one of Chris Carrabba's best efforts, the idea that his band takes a smaller role in this disc was well documented during the recording process by Carrabba him­self. It had long been planned that he would return to the roots that he began his career with in his albums "The Places You Have Come To Fear The Most" and "Swiss Army Romance." In fact, he was so adamant about the album not being a smash that he admit­ted, "I think it would be a stretch for any of these [songs] to get played on radio. We just announced it with such little fanfare and as directly as we could to my exact audience. It's a gift to [Billboard] for waiting so long for some­thing like this." 
Carrabba did not make "Shade" for the masses, for radio, or for the teenage girls who have already saturated the indie market, but for those who know his music best and understand the roots of what has become Dashboard Confessional. In the Billboard article in which this statement is made, he goes on to say that he already has 14 tracks written for the band's next album, though he has no idea when they will record next. Before claiming that Carrabba has sabotaged the concept of "the band," you must first understand what Dashboard Confessional started as -one man and an acoustic guitar and a few drums. Sure, there aren't any instrumental breakdowns, no drum solo's, but that was the plan for an acoustic album pitted in the origins of the Dashboard Confessional concept. This album was not a digression, but simply a reversion to a more conserva­tive style. 
If you are new to the Dashboard scene, then it is understandable that you might be disappointed, but frankly, with all of the changes bands in the music industry make to market themselves more effec­tively, it is refreshing to see Carrabba's head on straight. There may not be any jaw-dropping, ear-exploding, make-me­want-to-go-out-tonight-and-profess-my­love-for-her-outside-her-dorm-room­window songs on "Shade," but not every musical effort can be an artist's best. And let's be honest, David Bowie and Ziggy Stardust did just fine. 
Robby Schroder sophomore Keough Hall Oct. 12 


Focus on a-wareness 
To respond to Matt Gore's edito­rial ("Climate control not best use of funds," Oct. 10), which used Energy Week as an inspiration to criticize funding to research cli­mate change, I would first like to inform him that Notre Dame's first annual Energy Week was not about climate change, but about awareness. The week's events tried to educate the community about our individual energy use, the possibilities of renewable energy sources, and the measures our University is taking on energy issues. But since Mr. Gore brought up climate change: 
Uncertainty about what the actual temperature change will be does not translate into uncertainty that climate change is happening. There is no debate in the scientific community that global warming is happening, and the consensus is that it's happening because of humans burning fossil fuels and destroying forests. Unless we change our habits fast and limit the amount of greenhouse gases we emit, there will be significant changes to our planet and dire consequences for the humans that inhabit it. The worldwide effects of a change of 1 degree Celsius are severe; 5 degrees, unthink­able. 
Mr. Gore brings up HIV and malaria prevention programs as alternatives to invest in for humanity, and I believe these issues certainly deserve our atten­tion. But money for mosquito nets is not going to be enough. Global warming will only increase the geographic range and number of people at risk for transmission of malaria and other infectious dis­eases. Local environmental and socioeconomic condition.s, includ­ing access to energy, will largely determine the actual occurrence of diseases, making the popula­tions Mr. Gore is concerned about most vulnerable to the human effects of climate change. 
If we truly desire to help human­ity, we cannot be so short-sighted as to look only at the immediate problems we face today. We must also look to the future, to the gen­erations that will inherit our world and ask ourselves what kind of world we are creating for them. 
Caitlin Nora Murphy junior Breen-Phillips Hall Oct. 11 




THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, October 16, 2007 
For average Joe, rock-stardotn is just a guitar store away 
Anybody can be a rock star. All it takes is a beat-up amp and an electric guitar. Or so tlw thousands of pElople who have taught themselves how to rock like .Jirnrni llnndrix would have you believe. Lnarning to play the guitar has hoeonw an increas­ingly easy task. With the resources of the Internet and the surplus of madi­ly available instru­ments, guitar-godli­ness is just a strum or two away. 
Naturally, learn­ing the guitar starts with obtaining the instrument, and there are sevenll ways to go about this. Start by checking with family members. You might 

Chris McGrady 
Assistant Scene Editor 
be surprised to lind your dad has a 1972 Fender Strat tucked away in the attic, proving to you that his college afro hair­cut wasn't just for show. If you're not so lucky to have a clad who is more rock 'n' roll than rocking chair, then your next best bet is a used-instrument store. Many places carry reasonably priced {think $75 -$125) guitars that will more than fulfill the needs of the fledgling guitarist. When, and more importantly if, you start to out­play your equipment, then you can spend the big bucks on a thousand dollar guitar and amp combo. 
Whether you go acoustic or electric is up to you and your specific needs and musical preferences: Try acoustic for John Mayer-esque quad concerts for a lucky lady and electric for spine-tingling solos. 
Now the next step: choosing lessons or the do-it-yourself approach. Lessons are always a pricey endeavor. Other problems include getting burnt out by not learning the music you really want to play and having to work around a difficult sched­ule. Often, teaching yourself is the best route for the new guitarist. Save lessons for when you are trying to get over a par­ticular big plateau in your playing abili­ties that is preventing you from becoming the next Clapton or Satriani. 

Find yourself an approach that suits your learning style. The best place to do this is, not surprisingly, the Internet. Some sites advocate finding a diflkult piece and working with it until you can play it. This approach will only work for those people with a decent amount of musical talent and the patience of a saint. 
Other sites say to start with the basics -finger position, simple chords, and scales -and work with them until they've been mastered. Then work your way onto easy songs like "Free Falling" by Tom Petty, "Take It Easy" by The 
Eagles, or any other work following a simple chord progression. The next step is the longest-and the most trying. I'm talking 'bout practice. 
Practice, practice, practice . 
When you're done practicing, practice some more. Learning the guitar is a time­consuming and frustrating task, but the fruits of your labor will be great. All gui­tar enthusiasts get annoyed by dillicult pieces and chorrls they can't quite play, but conquering that struggle will be immensely satisfying. Stick with it through the dillieult times, and soon you'll be on your way to roek-star status. 
Now, if only you can find those leather pants. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl@nd.edu 
Regina Spektor 
By JAMES COSTA Assistant Scene Ediwr 
An intPgral element of' growing up is undPrstancling the beautiful and chal­lenging complexities of life. Hegina Spnktor's rww album, "Begin to Hope," is an extraordinary insight into one p1wson 's perspective on the curious bal­ance bntwem1 hop!~ and despair, youth and maturity. 
Spektor has had quite the life already, a Hussian immi­grant to the U.S. with years of dassieal train­
extraordinary talents. 
"Begin to II ope" achieves its most pro­found el'f'eet when given a thorough lis­ten. Sure, certain tracks stand out. Some have the beat and the rhythm to earn instant appeal. But as the listener moves through the album as a whole and each song individually, what Spektor is looking to accomplish beconws remarkably elear. She is a woman who's seen the world and the many lovels to the worlds she's shared 

Begin To Hope 
Regina Spektor Released by: Sire 
Recommended Tracks: ''On The Radio," "Samson's" and "Fidelity" 

Spektor treats the lis­tener to "On The Hadio." To truly under­stand and appreciatn the song, check out the video on Spektor's Web site. It's a rather stunning few minutes, with elever lyrics accentuated by penetrat­ing and imaginative music. She twice references the epic Guns N' Roses song "November Hain" as she sings, "On the radio I We heard November Hain I The solo's real long I But it's a pretty song" and "And on the radio I You hear 
''Begin to Hope'' 
with others and within herself. 
The opening track, "Fidelity," is sim­ply amazing. Employing a Dr. Dre-like beat, it's impossible not to smile at the cleverness of Spektor in creating a song with a hip-hop feel and lyrics more akin to an act like Jewel or Ashlee Simpson. And I'm not saying Regina is at all like Ashlee Simpson, because she's not. 
Spektor is pure and unadulterated talent. She's smart, and she uses her talents to tell stories that are real. pow­erful, and often beauti­fully raw. It's music for those who share her 
November Rain I That solo's awful long I But it's a good refrain" 
It's tough to tell whether song is a recounting of a single memory, or a dream, or a collection of many differ­ent experiences and moments in one striking offering. 
This difficulty is part of its wonderful appeal and carries over most of the rest of the album. It can be said that listener never truly knows for 
Photo courtesy of theage.com.au 

Regina Spektor's latest, "Begin To Hope," is a stunning and lively album. 
sure where Spektor is and so it's con­stant game of figuring out and catching up. enjoying the game immensely all the while. 
Much in the fashion of artists such as Ryan Adams or Ray LaMontagne, Spektor is excellent at using her voice in virtually every fashion imaginable. Whether it's a near inaudible whisper of painful remembrance in "That Time's" or a rousing call in "Samson's" {"Oh we couldn't bring the columns down I Yeah we couldn't destroy a sin­gle one I And this history books forgot about us I And the bible didn't mention us I Not even once"), Spektor has mas­tered her understanding and employ­ment of the subtle complexities of the voice to most accurately convey the ideas she's decided to sing about. 
Contact James Costa at jcosta@nd.edu 

'Kings of the Kilburn High Road' to open in the DPAC 
By TAE ANDREWS 
Scene Ediwr 
The play "Kings of the Kilburn lligh Hoad" opens on the Deeio Mainstage Theatre in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center tonight. 
"Kings of the Kilburn High Hoacl" wcrs inked by playwright .Jimmy Murphy, a Dublin native, whose othnr work includes "Brothers of the Brush," "A Picture of Paradise" and "The Muesli Belt." lie is a former member of the Abbey Theatre's advisory council and was a writer in residence at NUl Maynooth. lie has won multiple awards, including The Stewart Parker Award for best lirst play in 1994 and three Bursaries in Literature from the Arts Council of Ireland. 
The play's plot revolves around the experiences of a group of enterprising young men who leave their homes in lrnland, hop in a boat and literally set sail for England in the hopes of improving their rnspeetive lots in life and returning home rich. 
Unfortunately, one member of the group, Jackie Flavin, dies and his body is sent home for a wake. 
Told from an after-the-fact perspec­tive, "The Kings of thn Kilburn lligh Hoad" follows the action after the rest of the bunch regroups in Ireland to recoup and recount their adventures and experiences in life. 
Though Murphy's original play deals with the subject matter of the hopes and dreams of Irish immigrants in London during the 1970s, tonight's show featurns an all-African east. 
In the same way that Irish people left their native shores in search of a better life in other countries, today immi­grants to Ireland indude Africans and Eastern Europeans. In this way, "Kings of the Kilburn lligb Hoad" ofl'ers a par­allel structure contrasting the immi­grant experience or today against the immigrant experience of the past. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1@nd.edu 
ing on the piano. Most .._')pektor is pure and generation, standing at closely aligned with the this precious moment of
unadulterated talent.
anti-folk scene thriving youth before the onset in Nnw York Ci~y·s East She's smart, and she of age, but old enough Village, slw provides a used her talents to tell to know that a little bit fresh and rich look in to of our innocnnce is irre­
stories that are real.
the budding experiences trievably gone. of a young woman in the powerful. and often A third of the way city blessed with beautifully raw. through the album, 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE.
Tuesday, October 16, 2007 
page 11 
Scene's Top Video Picks 


Min·eswee er: The Movie 
For anyone who has ever layed the classic me 11Minesweeper/' this deo will hit dose to 
What do you get when ucombine two guitars and the most famous eo go me intro music of oil time? This video. 


r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, October I6, 2007 
NFL 


Giants cruise over Falcons 
Manning leads New York to easy win over struggling Atlanta 
Associated Press 
J\TI.J\NTJ\ -Tlw New York 

Ciants are on another roll. 
Now, they've got to sustain it. 
nti Manning passed for 30:{ 

yards and two touchdowns, 
leading the (;iants to their 
fourth straight win, 31-10 over 
tho hapless Atlanta Falcons on 
Monday night. 
The Giants (4-21 took control after a wild first quarter in which the tnarns eombinnd for 24 points. Nnw York scored the final 24 points to send the Michael Vick-lnss Falcons tum­bling to thnir fifth loss in six games. 
"I felt good throwing the ball," said Manning, who eom­pleted 12 straight at one point in the first half. "I was getting opportunities in a timely fash­ion. I was spreading the ball around to all receivers." 
The Giants have bounced back after starting the season with losses to Dallas and Green Bay, but they must be mindful of the collapse that knocked them out of the playoffs a year ago. 
J\ live-game winning streak had the Giants at 6-2 midway through the 2006 season, but thny managed just two more wins the rnst of the way. 
Maybe that's why coach Tom Coughlin didn't sound all that enthused. 
"I thought sometimes we did play well offensively, and then sometimes we did not," he said. 'There were some issues." 
Manning threw a pair of touchdown passes and set up another New York TD with three straight completions, which lessened the damage of two intereeptions and losing a fumble when John Abraham knocked the ball loose just before the quarterback's arm went forward. 
It also helped to be playing the Falcons, who are averaging just 13.2 poinl'i a game. 
"They are a good defensive football team," Coughlin said. "They have some problems, obviously, on the offensive side of thn ball." 
Manning was 27 -of-39 and put up his highest total sinee a 312-yard pnrformanee against the Cowboys in Week 1. 
lie hooked up with Amani Toomer on a 5-yard scoring pass in the back-and-forth opening period. Before the half was done, Manning went deep for a 43-yard touchdown to Plaxico Burress that gave the Giants a 21-10 lead; Burress turned to the crowd and bowed after getting wide open down the middle. 

The Faleons have little reason to take a bow. Their offense is dreadful, a striking contrast to the high-scoring teams that Bobby Petrino coached in col­lege. 
Playing behind a patched-up line, Joey Harrington was sacked four times, had several passes dellected at the line and did plenty of scrambling to avoid New York's fearsome pass rush, which had tied a league record with 12 sacks of Philadelphia's Donovan McNabb two weeks earlier. 
The Falcons. who were start­ing two nnw tackles because of injuries, actually did a better­than-expected job keeping Osi Umenyiora, Michael Strahan & Co. away from Harrington. That was largely because llarrington went with quick drops and short passes, not leaving much time to open up the passing game. 
"Eventually, they started to dominate the line of scrim­mage," Petrino said. "We could­n't sustain the run and execute the passing game." 
After yanking Harrington the previous week in favor of Byron Leftwich, the Falcons didn't have a baekup plan against the Giants. Leftwich, who signed with Atlanta after Week 2, was designated as the third quarter­back because of a sore ankle, and backup Chris Redman has not played in a game since 2003. 
"Byron probably could have gone in there and played," Petrino said. "But missing two days of practice when he's only been here a month, that would have been hard to do. We decided to stick with Joey and see what he could do." 
Not much. Harrington was 18-of-39 for 209 yards, putting him in danger of losing another starting job after he was already deposed in Detroit and Miami. The Falcons were total­ly inept after their quick start, managing 159 yards and nine first downs over the final three quarters, most of them coming after the Giants already had put the game away. 
"When they pop in that film," Strahan said, "I don't want them to say the defensive line didn't give it everything we had." 
Redman did start warming up at one point late in the first half after Harrington was shak­en up on a sack by Antonio Pierce, but the starter was able to stay in the game, much to the chagrin of Atlanta fans who still miss Vick. 
When another Falcons pos­session fizzled with about 10 minutes remaining, the red­clad fans at the Georgia Dome delivered one last round of boos and headed for the exits, leav­ing a healthy contingent of New York fans to cheer on their team the rest of the way. 

Even at 43, Testaverde still has what it takes 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.-Vinny 
Testaverde was excited and 
nervous. 
When he signed last 
Wednesday with the Carolina 
Panthers, the 43-year-old 
thought he could still play. But 
he wasn't sure he'd gain the 
respect of his teammates. 
"Not having the support of the 
players was a worry of mine," 
Testaverde said Monday. 
"Dealing with me being 43 years 
old and the players looking at 
me and saying, 'Hey, how is this 
guy going to help us? lie's 43. 
He's not going to be able to do 
it."' 
"I wanted to show them 
through practice and certainly 
through the game that I was 
capable of holding up my end of 
the bargain." 
He has nothing to worry about anymore. Except perhaps being involved in a quarterback con­troversy. 
The man nicknamed "Dad" by his teammates led the Panthers to a 25-10 win at Arizona on Sunday despite not knowing all his teammates' names. An emergency fill-in with Jake Delhomme out for the season with an elbow injury and David Carr nursing a sore back, Testaverde learned enough of the offense in four days to become the third-oldest quarter­back to start an NFL game and the oldest to win one. 
A guy who spent the previous Sunday at home watching games on TV completed 20 of 33 passes for 206 yards, including the go­ahead 65-yard touchdown pass to Steve Smith in the fourth quarter. Testaverde, who hadn't thrown a ball in more than five weeks until Wednesday's prac­tice, didn't throw an interception as the Panthers moved to 4-2 heading into their bye week. 
"It's a pretty good feeling to be called upon on short notice, not really knowing your personnel, what players are capable of doing, and going out and win­ning the football game," Testaverde said. 
The old body held up pretty well, too. Testaverde said he felt "not too bad" as he lifted weights and did some light run­ning Monday. 
Meanwhile, Vinnymania had gripped the Carolinas. Fans were calling into radio shows Monday urging that Testaverde, who turns 44 next month, start ahead of Carr on Oct. 28 against Indianapolis. 
Coach John Fox wasn't avail­able to reporters Monday, and Testaverde isn't sure of his role. 
"I have no clue. There has 
been no conversation with me," 
Testaverde said. "Whatever the 
decision is, I'm here to help in 
any way I can." 
Entering his 21st season, the 
No. 1 overall pick in the 1987 
draft was cut by Nnw England 
before the season. lie returned 
home to Long Island and 
thought he'd get a call from the 
Patriots to rejoin them later in 
the season as insurance. 
But then there was a rash of 
quarterbaek injuries around the 
league, and general manager 
Marty Hurney acknowledged 
Monday signing Testaverde 
involved some luek. 
Hurney was scrambling to lind a QB after it was learned Delhomme would undergo sea­son-ending elbow surgery and Carr was questionable with a back injury. 
Hurney looked at the thin list of available QBs and thought Testa verde was the best option. 
"If anybody could come in on Wednesday and be effective on Sunday, certainly it would be him," Hurney said. 
But then llurney learned Testaverde was going to sign with Arizona, and crossed him off the list. 
A day later, Panthers strength and conditioning coach Jerry Simmons, a friend of Testa verde from their days together in Cleveland in the 1990s, called to congratulate him on going to the Cardinals. Testaverde told Simmons he'd changed his mind because of the distance he'd be from his family in New York. 
Simmons relayed the informa­tion to Hurney. He immediately called Testaverde, who said he'd be interested in coming to Carolina because it was on the East Coast. 
Testaverde flew to Charlotte early Wednesday, took his physi­cal, signed his one-year contract and was taken on a golf cart to the practice field just as the workout began. 
Testaverde had some familiar­ity with the offense because coordinator Jeff Davidson once worked under Bill Belichick in New England. But learning the system in four days was a monu­mental task. 
He returned few phone calls and missed the Testaverde old man jokes from Jay Leno and others on TV to study the play­book and watch film. 
"Our players noticed he had DVDs and was watching cutups on the flight out to Arizona, preparing," Hurney said. "Our players just got the opportunity to see how a guy prepares men­tally and physically that's been in the league as long as Vinny has." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 2 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classified. is 2 p.m. AI classified. must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE 
Moving on with my life Moving in with yours. Lake St. George is your new home With an almost view of the dome Sleep in one of three suites Taste the city water. It is sweet New. New Everything You can have it for some bling Not too bad for $345 thousand Call Jan Lazzara on her band 574-233-6141. 
FoR RENT 
Large house available for 2009-2010. Full renovations completed this year. Great location on E Marion. Large common areas, 5 bathrooms. Also available: 5bdnn 2 bath and 3bdnn 2 bath for 2008-2009. Contact MacSwain@gmail.com 
Blue & Gold Homes Now Showing 2nd Semester & 08/09. 1-9 Bedrooms. bluegoldrentals.com 
Cozy 3 bedroom house, walk to campus, washer/dryer, landlord does the yardwork. $750/month. No pets. No section 8. 574-250-1266. 
TICKETS 
WANTED -ND FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232­0964. www.victorytickets.com 

ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. 57 4-288-2726. 
Buying BC/USC tix. 574-277-1659. 
WANTED 

PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
Spring Break 2008. Sell Trips, Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for group discounts. Best Deals Guaranteed! Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas, S.Padre. Florida. 800­648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
Unplanned pregnancy? Do not go ~ alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­lance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn. OP. at 1-7819. For more infonnation, vis~ our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi­weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 
IS YOUR DAD A RADIOLOGIST IN BOSTON? Looking for ND student s father who is a Radiologist in the 
Boston, MA area. This Dr. assisted my client with CPR on an airplane on 3/15/07 departing Detroit to So. Bend. Family would like to extend thank you and ask ques­lions, Please call Mark Matthes at 800-261-2305. 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, October 16, 2007 
NCAA Women's Volleyball Coaches Poll 
team record previous 
1 Nebraska 16-0 1 2 Penn State 16-2 3 3 Stanford 17-1 2 4 usc 16-2 6 5 Washington 17-1 8 6 Texas 12-3 7 7 UCLA 15-3 4 8 Wisconsin 16-1 9 9 California 14-4 10 10 Florida 16-1 5 11 Hawaii 15·3 12 12 Dayton 21-0 14 13 Minnesota 12-6 11 14 Kansas State 14-5 16 15 Michigan 16-4 15 16 San Diego 14-5 17 17 Duke 14-4 13 18 New Mexico State 17-3 20 19 Oregon 14-6 19 20 Ohio 15-4 21 21 Colorado State 13-4 23 22 St. John's 21-3 22 23 Oklahoma '15-4 25 24 Cal Poly 11-7 24 25 LSU 15-4 18 
NCAA Field Hockey Coaches Poll 
team record previous 
1  North Carolina  14-0  
2  Maryland  14-0  
3  Wake forest  7-4  
4  Iowa  11-2  
5  Michigan  9-4  
6  ConnecUcul  12·2  
7  Michigan State  11"4  
8  James Madison  11,2  
9  Penn Stale  9-4  
10  Old Dominion  8-5  
11  Duke  7-6  
12  Boston College  8-5  
13  Louisville  9-5  
14  Ohio  10-4  
15  American  10·3  
16  Albany  11·3  
17  Syracuse  11·3  
18  VIrginia  7-6  
19  Villanova  9-3  
20  Delaware  9-6  


MIAA Women's Soccer 
Standings  
team  league  overall  
Calvin Hope Albion Kalamazoo SAINT MARY'S Adrian Alma Olivet Tri-State  5·0·0 4·1·0 3·1·1 3·1-1 2·2·2 2-4-0 2·4·0 1·4·1 0·5-0  10·3-1 8·6·1 9·2·2 8·3·2 6·3·4 5·9·1 7·6·1 6·7·2 0·12·2  

around the dial 
MLB PLAYOFFS Boston at Cleveland 8 p.m., FOX 

CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Associated Press 
LINCOLN, Neb. Nebraska athletic direc­tor Steve Pederson was fired Monday, two days after the school's once­mighty football team was rocked with its worst home loss in nearly a half-century. 
Pederson, along with coach Bill Callahan, has been heavily criticized after a series of one­sided losses this season. The most recent was a 45-14 loss to Oklahoma State on Saturday with former Cornhuskers coach Tom Osborne and his 1997 national title team in attendance. 
Callahan's job is appar-ently safe for now. Chancellor Harvey Perlman said the next athletic director would decide the fate of the football staff. 


Over the past two weeks, the Huskers (4~3) have lost by a combined score of 86-20, -dropping a 41-6 decision at Missouri two weeks ago. 
"There is no joy in my heart for having to do this," Perlman said. He said it would cost at least 
$2.2  million  to  buy  
Pederson out of  his  con­ 
tract.  

At the end of the July, Pederson's contract was ren~wed for five years, but this season has been a nightmare for the most part. Even in victory -a 41-40 nail-biter against Ball State the Huskers' defense was far from the force it used to be. 
For the first time in their 118-year history, the Cornhuskers have allowed at least 40 points four times in a season. 
"You make the best decision you can with the information you have," Perlman said. 
The chancellor also said since July he's noticed a decline in morale and growing con­cern about keeping key personnel in the athletic department. Paul Meyers, a key fundraiser, was among several peo-
IN BRIEF Pereiro gets yellowjersey
from Lan(lis for 2006 Tour 
MADRID, Spain -Oscar Pereiro finally got his hands on the winner's yellow jersey from the 2006 Tour de France on Monday. 
"Finally, we have a winner and it's Oscar," Tour direetor Christian Prudhomme said. "Oscar, you have won the Tour out on the road." 
The Spaniard moved up from sec­ond to first after the disqualification of Floyd Landis for doping. 
"I have the feeling of arriving at the end of a thriller, after having spent 14 months thinking about it and not being able to concentrate as I should have on my job," Pereiro said. "It is essentially a kind of release." 
The International Cycling Union formally declared Pereiro the winner on Sept. 21, one day after a U.S. arbi­tration panel voted 2-1 to remove the title from Landis for using synthetic testosterone during the Tour. 

Injured Bulger to start for 
wmlessRams 
ST. LOUIS -Watching the win­less St. Louis Rams lose two more games while he nursed two bro­ken ribs was long enough on the sidelines for Marc Bulger. It'll be months before those injuries heal, but his beat-up team needs him. 
Bulger said Monday he plans to return to the lineup this week, and coach Scott Linehan said the quarterback would be cleared to play at Seattle. 
"Yeah, I'm playing," Bulger said. ''I'm ready now after stand­ing around for two weeks. They definitely feel a little better, but I haven't been hit." 
Bulger said he couldn't worry about compounding those injuries. 
"I don't think we have an option right now," he said. "It doesn't matter if it's smart, I think I have to." 
page 13 
pie who departed. 
Several people came forward with concerns about Pederson's man­agement style and his connection with staff, donors and athletes, Perlman said. 
"Every one of you thinks this is because of a football game that was played last Saturday," Pederson said. "It may well be that the vulnera­bility of the football pro­gram encouraged people to come forward when prior to that they had not." 
A search for an interim athletic director has begun, with the next step to find a permanent replacement. 

Bryant sits out of second 
straight preseason practice 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif. -Kobe Bryant sat out practice for the sec­ond straight day Monday because of a sore knee, and said he didn't know if he'd play in the Los Angeles Lakers' next exhibition game. 
The Lakers face the Seattle SuperSonics on Thursday night in Bakersfield -the first of six exhibi­tion games in niJw days. 
Los Angeles coach Phil Jackson said Bryant asked to rest his legs, adding that treatment included ice and massage. Bryant wasn't avail­able to the media afterward, but before leaving the Lakers' practice facility, he expressed uncertainty concerning Thursday night, saying he would continue treatment. 
Bryant has said very little to reporters since team owner Jerry Buss said last week in Honolulu that he "would certainly listen" to trade offers for the Lakers' star. 
.---------------­
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 16, 2007 

NHL Ward slims down, shines for 1 Canes 
Associated Press 
HALEIGII, N.C. -Cam Ward lost about 20 pounds. What he hasn't lost lately are many games. 
A winner of four straight starts, Carolina's slimmed­down goalie has yet to lose in regulation and has emerged as a big reason for the first-plaee llurrieanes' quick start this season. 
Six months ago, the Hurricanes became just the third team in the modern era to drop from Stanley Cup champions to playoff no­shows. Now, with a revit<tl­ized, lighter Ward in net, they lead the Southeast Division and are out to prevent their postseason fate from being determined in the season's final weeks. 
"You'd hate to look baek at your season and wish in the narly s1mson that you had a bnttnr game here or there, or I eould havn gotten a win here or there." Ward said Monday. "Every gamn is huge. It's not just about the seeond half or the last wnnk. trying to gnt into the playoffs. It's what you do throughout tlw entire sea­son that really matters." 
So far, all of Ward's numbers this season are better than last year's totals -including his weight. 
Arter playing the past two seasons -and winning the 2006 Conn Smythe Trophy as the playoff MVP -at around 200 pounds, Ward said he most recently weighed in at 
177. 
Sleeker and quicker, Ward has allowed just nine goals on the 156 shots he has faced through five games, and his save percentage of .942 ranks fifth in the league. His goals­against average of 1. 79 is more than a goal better than it was last season, and ranks second among goalies who have played at least four games. 
lie's one of three goalies with at least four wins so far, with his lone blemish a sea­son-opening overtime loss to Montreal. Only Ottawa's Martin Gorber (192) has more saves than Ward's 147. 
And, lw was the backbone of the Hurricanes' three-game swing through eastern Canada last week, helping Carolina swenp Toronto, Ottawa and Montreal by a combined score of 15-5 -a performance that led the NII L to name him its No. I star of the week. 

VOLVNTEER~ WANTED 
Do you want to make adifference in someone's life! 
Holy Cross House is looking for energetic, outgoing volunteers to assist with and or lead activity groups for our retired priests and brothers. Do you have an hour aweek or couple hours amonth to share your time and talents with us! 
Then join us for our open house Thursday, October 18, from 9:00-11:00 A.M. or 3:30-5:30 P.M. 
Holy Cross is located on Douglas Road just west of juniper. 
Come tour our house, enjoy refreshments and see the faces ofHoly Cross House. 
Ifyou have any questions please call Tricia at 631-3957. Thank you! 
NFL 
Titans' Young day to day after MRI on leg 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -The Tennessee Titans are hoping quarterback Vincn Young is a fast lwalnr. 
Young had an MHI exam· Monday to eheek out his strained right quadriceps mus­cle. The results of the test weren't immediately available, and eoach JP!l" Fisher said Young would be considerml day to day. 
Tight ond Ho Scaife saw the quarterback walking around Monday and thought Young looked like he was fine. Onn hn<lling fac:tor could eomn from thn sehPduln. The Titans (3-2) visit Young's hometown Sunday and the team, the Texans (3-31, that. passed him ovnr in the 200h drall. 
"lie lovos it down thorn. and llwy lovo him down llwro," said Seaifo, Young's college~ team­malo at Tnxas. "I think there's nothing morn for him to be able to play. I'm surn lw's going to do cwc~rything lw ean to try to son that it happens." 
Fisher said the test was to dntorminn tlw hnst c:ourse or trnatmcmt for the 2006 Ollimsivn Hookin of tlw Year who was injured at the nnd of a 2-yard run to the sidnlirw midway through tlw third quartnr of Sunday's 13-10 loss to Tarn pa Bay. 
"lie could not practico today," Fisher said. "If we had practice today, lw'd bo soro. But it's not as bad as we thought. So he'll bo day to day, and our treatment path will bo to try to gc~t him baek on the practice field as fast as we ean." 
The Titans will be without recnivnr Brandon Jones on Sunday. Fisher said the third­year receiver had arthroscopic surgery on his knee Monday and will bn out a week or two. Jones hurt his right knee on Oct. 7 in a 20-13 win against Atlanta. 
But thn Titans have a handful of hnalthy reenivers led by Eric Moulds, Hoyd11ll Williams and .Justin Gage. The health of the quarterback who has led Tennessnn to nine victories in its last 12 games is what matters most. 
"No question we're definitely eoncornnd about our leader on offenso," linebacker David Thornton said. "We need him. lin's a guy who's going to make plays and continue to make plays. Wn hope thn MRI shows it's not a situation where he's going to bn out for an extended poriod oftime." 
The injury has the Titans con­sidering some roster moves with Knrry Collins the only other quarterback. Tim Hattay was in training eamp, but was released Sept. I and signnd with Arizona, whnrn hn played much of Sunday's loss to Carolina. Ingle Martin, a Nashville native and (;renn Bay's firth-round draft pick in 2006, is on the practice squad. 
l'untnr .Josh Miller could be cut to make room for a third quarterback because Craig Hentrid1 has punted the two wneks since a sore back kept him out of a gamn Sc1pt. 24. 

Readyfor a Challenge? 
Consider a Career at Louis Dreyfus 
We are looking for talented students to expand our global commodity trading business. A background in economics, finance or mathematics is desirable but not the only requirement for an entry-level trader. 
Learn to trade physical commodities in both domestic and global markets while managing the substantial risks inherent in volatile markets. Successful candidates must be able to act decisively, think critically and communicate well. 
Since 1851, Louis Dreyfus has been a leader in trading, transporting and providing the basics of modern life to the four corners of the globe. With 12,000 employees in over 53 countries, we are an international company where talented and dedicated people work together across borders and time zones every day. 
Our international presence and our growing history make Louis Dreyfus a unique career destination. If you want to work for a company that will always rise to meet new opportunities, Louis Dreyfus is the place for you. 
Se alienta a los estudiantes con fluidez en espariol o portugues. Encorajamos especialmente aos candidates fluentes em espanhol ou portugues. 
We are an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer and strongly support workforce diversity. 
. For more information visit us at www.ldcommodities.com 
13 LouisDreyfus
Commodities 
Tuesday, October 16, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 

VNIVERSITY O.F NOTRE DAME STlJOY ABROAD PROGRAM IN  
PARIS, FRANCE ACADEl\IIC YEAR 2008-9  
!NFORMATrON MEETING AHOI.!T STVDYlNG l'OLfTfCAl. SCIKNCK "ECONOMlCS, SOCIOLOGY ANI> HISTORY IN l'AIUS  
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 17,2007 . 5:30 Pl\11 202 DBRT  
Applications due Novcn1ber 15, 2007  
·--------·-···-·········-····-·-···---·····--·-····--··  .__o  




INFORMATION SESSION 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREY, MEXICO 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 6:30 PM 202 DeBartolo 
Physics taught in Puebla in the fall semester for Pre­Professional Students; pre-medical internships available Business and Engineering courses offered in Monterrey 
Application Deadline: November :1.5, 2007 

····'81 


ALCS 
Strong pitching leads Indians over Red Sox 


Westbrook stars as Tribe wins at home, takes 2-1 series lead 
Associated Press 
CLEVElAND-Not their best. 
Not even second best. Jake 
Westbrook, right at home in the 
Jake, was exactly what the 
Cleveland Indians needed. 
Westbrook, an often over­looked third wheel in the rota­tion, kept Boston grounded for nearly seven innings Monday ·night, leading the Indians to a 4­2 win over the Red Sox and a 2­1 lead in the AL championship 
series. 
The laid-back right-hander, 
who missed a big chunk of the 
season with an injury, doesn't 
possess the overpowering stuff 
of either C. C. Sabathia or Fausto 
Carmona -Cleveland's two 
aces who flopped badly in 
Games 1 and 2 at Fenway Park 
-or their stellar reputations. 
But Westbrook does have a 
devastating sinkerball, and oh 
my, how it sunk the Red Sox. 
Backed by an early homer 
from old pro Kenny Lofton, 
Westbrook took a shutout into 
the seventh inning. 
Game 4 on Tuesday night will 
feature two soft tossers: 
Cleveland's Paul Byrd, with his 
old-school windup, and Boston's 
Tim Wakefield, the 41-year-old 
knuckleballing master. 
Boston grounded into three 
double plays, two of them by 
October's scariest twosome ­
David Ortiz and Manny Ramirez. 
They combined for something 
more unusual -Ramirez's 
grounder nailed Big Papi in the 
leg on the basepaths for an out 
that helped Westbrook. 
In all, Westbrook got 14 of 19 
outs on balls the Red Sox pound­
ed weakly into the manicured 
grass and infield dirt at Jacobs 
Field, which hosted its first ALCS 
game since 1998. Back then, 
Westbrook was in Montreal's 
minor league system perfecting 
a pitch that drops, dips and 
darts as it approaches home 
plate. 
The Red Sox couldn't do any­
thing with it until the seventh, 
when Jason Varitek hit a two­
run homer. 
Jensen Lewis relieved with a 
runner on and struck out rookie 
Dustin Pedroia to end the inning. 
Rafael Betancourt worked a per­
fect eighth and Joe Borowski, 
the AL saves leader, pitched a 
rare 1-2-3 ninth. 
Lofton, with a baseball pass­port stamped by 11 teams over 17 seasons, handed Westbrook an early lead with a two-run homer in the second inning off Daisuke Matsuzaka. Cleveland added two more runs in the fifth against the high-priced Japanese import, whom the Red Sox invested more than $100 million in to pitch in games like this. 
By comparison, Westbrook was a bargain at $33 million for the Indians, who locked him up in April for three more years before he had a chance to test the free-agent market after this season. 
Westbrook then spent seven weeks on the disabled list with a side injury and didn't find his groove until August, when he went 4-1 with a 1.90 ERA. But even then, Westbrook, who lost to the Red Sox on July 23, was­n't expected to shut down Boston. 
Westbrook was in complete control until J.D. Drew grounded a one-out single to center in the seventh. Varitek followed with a homer to center, bringing the Red Sox to 4-2. 
The homer ended Boston's 13­inning scoreless streak, a drought that began in the sixth inning of Game 2 on Saturday night. 
Westbrook struck out Coco Crisp but when Julio Lugo beat out an infield single, manager Eric Wedge pulled his gutty starter, who received a thunder­ous ovation from the towel-wav­ing crowd of 44,402 as he jogged to the dugout. 
Lofton, a 40-year-old who could still pass as a twentysome­thing, gave the Indians a 2-0 lead in the second with his sev­enth career postseason homer. 
Ryan Garko singled with one out, and with two down, Lofton, traded back for his third stint with the Indians in July, turned on Matsuzaka's first pitch and sent it on a low trajectory and barely over the right-field waH. 
After high-fiving delirious teammates, L9fton, whose every move has been cheered since he returned to Cleveland, carne out and tipped his helmet to the adoring crowd. 
The Red Sox ran themselves out of a potential scoring oppor­tunity in the fourth. 
Ortiz ended an 0-for-8 drought vs. Westbrook with an opposite­field double off the wall in left, but then was struck on the leg when he inexplicably broke for !hird on a hard-hit grounder. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 16, 2007 
NFL 

Pair of co-defendants accept deals in O.J. case 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Two men who cut plna deals Monday in a Las Vegas twist that authori­ties say O.J. Simpson master­minded could hamper the f'or­nwr football star's dnfense, but the nw n 's dubious back­grounds could givn prosec:u­tors prohll'tns. 
Thn question will be whothor prosncutors ran build a strong enough c·asn against Simpson on the words of his eohorts or wlwthnr tlw u~stimony will be pr·oded through contradictions and cross-Pxamination targp,t­ing tlw unsavory background of' his co-ddPndants. 
"It's a del'ensn lawyer's dream to cross-exam irw these witnessns," said Laurin LcwPnson, a prof'nssor at Loyola Law Sehool in Los Angelns and a l'orrnnr f'ndnral prosncutor. "You ean put somiHlnn up bnforn a firing squad and tlw squad members can start shooting at naeh othnr." 
At this point. prosneutors appear to have the uppnr hand . Two of S i m p son's co­dtd'nndants. onn a former friend. agrned to tnstify against him in return for dras­tically rnduced ehargns. 
"It's always a prosecutor's strategy to go af'ter thn little fish to get to thn big fish," said lawyer Edward Milny, who rnprnsents defendant Charles Cashmore. "In this, it seems to bn that 0 ..1. Simpson is the big fish." 
A lawy11r for Walter Alexander. a former golf' buddy of' Simpson's who plans to tes­tify against him, said he hasn't lwen in troubln in a decade. 


prosecution to argue that, "In a den of thieves, you have thieves as witnesses." But he stressed, "That does not include O.J." 
Some of the other men in the room had felony convictions, including Tom Hieeio, the man who set up the meeting and taped it but was granted immunity and not charged. lie is expected to be a key wit­ness. 
Proseeutor David Hoger has not outlined his strategy and declined comment on it outside court Monday. 
Defense attorney Thomas Mesereau Jr., who represented acquitted defendants Michael But he and Cashmore have 

histories of' run-ins with the 
law. 
Cashmore, 40. who said he will plead guilty to being an accessory to robbery, was charged with felony theft in a 1996 embezzlement case in Provo, Utah, pleaded guilty and bargained thn eharge...to a misdemnanor and probation. 
Alexander, 46, said he will plnad guilty to conspiracy to commit robbery. lie was arrosted in Los Angeles in JIJH7 for kidnapping and assault with a doadly woapon, hut the charges wer11 dis­Ill issnd because a witness rnl'usnd to idnntify the culprit, court records show. 
Chargns against Simpson and three others include kid­napping. armed robbery, assault. burglary and conspir­acy. A pmliminary hearing for thorn is scheduled Nov. H and IJ. 
Cashmore and Alexander waived their right to a prelimi­nary hearing. 
Their brushes with the law will bo fodder for cross-exami­nation, as will their roles in tho Sept. B confrontation in a Las Vegas hotel room where Simpson has said he went to retrieve items that belonged to him from a group of memora­bilia peddlers. 
Simpson's Las Vegas attor­ney, Gabrinl Grasso, said he wasn't surprised that some of Simpson's eo-defendants are gotting reduced charges to tes­tify against the athlete-turned­actor. 
"I never thought this would be anything but an O.J. ease and only O.J.," he said. 
Grasso said he expec.ts the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INH:I{NATIONAL STLJDY PROGRAMS IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Fall 2008, SPRING 2009, A Y 2008-9 University College Dublin Trinity College 
INFORMATION MEETING with 
Kevin Whelan, Director Keough-Naughton ND Center, Dublin 
Thursday, October 18, 2007 5:30pm 129 DBRT 
Application Deadlines: NOVI':MBER 15,2007 FOR FALL, SPRING, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2008-09 Applications Available www/nd.edu/~ois 

Jackson and Hobert Blako in eases that turned on witness credibility, said the move by co-defendants to plead out and testify to save themsolves shows the prosecution's motive is to get Simpson. 
"This might feed into the idea of a setup," he said. "They set him up in the hotel room and tape recorded it and no.w tlwy're setting him up in court." 
Simpson's celebrity and the fact that many feel he was wrongly acquittml in 1995 of murdering his wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her frifmd, Honald Goldman, could weigh heavily against him and may emerge as the dominant tlwme in the case. 


.Join the Arabic Club at Notre Damel 
Come to the 1•• meeting of the year Tuesday~ October g•h 
Room 331 in the Coleman-Morse Center 7:00-7:30pm 
Questions contact: Mike Hoffman, mhotfiT!.a5Cwnd.edu Susan Kippels, skippelsCW.nd.edu 

Prayer from Around the World 

Christian Taize Prayer 
10:00 pm, Wednesday, October 17 W a Ish. Hall Chapel 
Sponsors: Walsh Hall, GSU, ND Muslim Student Association, FOG & International Student Services & Activities. 
C-M 
Tuesday, October 16, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Augustin 
continued from page 20 
six-game winning streak, the Irish have averaged 3.7 goals per game. Twice they have scored at least five times, and only once have they scored less than three. 
Part of the offensive produc­tion is due to junior forward Brittany Bock, who has a five­game goal streak and nine total goals during those games. But with Cinalli out and Weissenhofer seeing limited playing time, freshman forward Rose Augustin shoulders a larger burden. 
Augustin has started four games this season, against Stanford, DePaul, Penn State and Cincinnati, averaging between 30 and 40 minutes off the bench when not starting. She had a goal against both Cincinnati and Syracuse, but did not score until Notre Dame's 5-0 victory over Villanova Sunday. Although Augustin played only 38 minutes off the bench against the Wildcats, she scored two goals and had an assist. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum said Augustin wasn't ready for the rigors of college play when she first arrived on campus. 
"She was used to sitting in the box and waiting for the ball to come to her," Waldrum said. "We needed her to get more touches, and if they weren't there, to ere-ate more touches." 
The coaches talked to her about finding ways to get the ball and create scoring opportunities, Waldrum said, and she has since become a much better player. 
Waldrum said Augustin's improvement in attacking the ball was the main reason her role increased in the absence of Cinalli and Weissenbofer. 
"She's really done a good job of attacking the ball," Waldrum said. 
The "very low-maintenance" Augustin was even-keeled when forced to accept a new role, he said. 
Eventually, Weissenhofer and Cinalli will return, but Waldrum said having too many good play­ers is a dilemma he is used to and prefers. 
"I've coached both sides, and I'd much rather have too many good players than too few," he said. "It's a good coaching prob­lem to have." 
Waldrum said Cinalli and Weissenhofer will play when they return, but they must per­form well. 
"When Weissenhofer comes back, she will play, but she'll have to challenge Augustin," he said. "You have to go with the player who's hot." 
After she notched five points against the Wildcats, it is clear Augustin is just that. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

Tri-State 
continued from page 20 
unfamiliar positions. 
But those changes have sometimes had a silver lining. Moving defenders Justine Higgins, Bridget Ronayne and Katy Durkin forward has helped produce several goals for the Belles. 
MacKenzie said she wants her team to focus on its own play rather than Tri-State's record. 
"I We want to I play our game tomorrow. not to the level of our opponent," MacKenzie sais. "We have a lot of things we can work on within the context of the game so I expect that there will be certain things we key on." 
MacKenzie said several 
~netn/1 tDttlb tlbe ~o}J 
Hosted by the Notre Dame Ballroom Dance Team 
Wednesday, October 171h 7-Spm 
LaFortune Ballroom 
Dancers include: Professor Dobrowolska-Physics department Professor Bualuan-Enginecring department Anna Thompson-Executive Director of DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
Featuring Tango &Cha-cha 
Come watch your professors dance! Everyone is invited! 
Admission: $3 for students $5 tor non-students 
players, including sophomore midfielder Sammi Goudreau, have improved significantly and should help the team for the remainder of the season. 
"Her last couple games have been tremendous and her contributions immeasurable," MacKenzie said of Goudreau. 
In wins over strong confer­ence rivals Kalamazoo and Adrian, the Belles showed they could compete against some of the top MIAA squads. MacKenzie hopes the Belles continue to add to some of their early-season success. 
"I feel like there is a lot of good soccer in us and we have not fully tapped the full potential of our team," MacKenzie said. "We are capable of playing much bet­ter and more consistently." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO1 @saintmarys.edu 
CLUB SPORTS 

Squads continue seasons 

Riders head to Purdue show; field hockey team loses 3-2 
Special to The Observer 

Equestrian 

The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's equestrian club opened IHSA competition this weekend in a show host­ed by Purdue. Kelley Daniels was the reserve high point rider. Despite featuring many new members this year, the club managed a fifth-place finish at the show. 
Lauren Desrosiers placed third in open fences, the best showing for the club in the advanced competition. Daniels won in novice fences, with teammates Katie Pietrucha, Heather LaDue and Jen Gilardi fin­ishing third, fourth and fifth, respectively. Daniels also earned first place in novice flat. Laura Hale took second, LaDue was third, Andrea Kochert finished fifth and Maria Cardoso and Gilardi tied for sixth in that event. 
Krista Jones gave the Irish their best performance in intermediate flat, riding to fourth place. Laura Divel finished sixth in advanced walk-trot-canter and Katrina Stewart also took sixth in walk-trot. In beginning walk-trot-canter, Catherine Germer and Tiffany Olier took second and third, respectively, to complete the Irish scoring. 
The club will next compete Nov.10-11 at Saint Mary's of the Woods College. 
Field hockey 
A shorthanded Irish fell 3­2 to Miami (Ohio) this Sunday at Riehle field. With only one substitute available at the beginning of the game, an injury early in the second half left the squad with little relief. The Irish scored the only two goals of the first half, by Danielle Fedele and freshman Suzie 
Carlsen.  Both  scores  were  
unassisted.  
But  in  the  second  half,  

fatigue showed as the Red Hawks sent wave after wave of fresh players onto the field. Miami scored all three of its goals in the last six minutes of the game. The game-winner came with about a minute left. 
Catherine Duffy was in goal for the Irish and fin­ished with nine saves. 

MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
O'Neill tames Dawgs for first win 
By GRIFFIN DASSATTI and 
ANDY ZICCARELLI 
Sports Writers 

O'Neill got its first win of the season in dramatic fashion Sunday, beating Alumni 7-6. 
Both teams came into the game winless -Alumni at 0-2 and O'Neill at 0-3 -but the energy on both sidelines was high. 
O'Neill's offense had trouble holding onto the ball early on. After driving 25 yards in its first eight plays, the Mob's opening drive was cut short when Alumni junior line­backer Matt Tehrani inter­cepted senior quarterback Chris Stroh's first pass attempt. 
After forcing the Dawgs offense to an opening-drive three-and-out, the Mob com­mitted its second turnover. This time, Stroh was sacked as he tried to roll out of the pock­et and fumbled. The loose ball out with the win," he said. "O'Neill is a team better than their record would show and we didn't want to give them a chance." 
As the second half began, Conley noticed something dif­ferent from previous weeks ­an attitude that could create the chance Alumni was hoping to prevent. 
"The whole mood for the second half was that people were having fun," he said. "I don't know what it was but today there was definitely a different sense on the field. When people have fun, good things happen." 
After holding the Dawgs to two three-and-outs on their first two drives of the half, O'Neill rode to the end zone ­and the lead -on the backs of Powers and senior running back Braden Turner. The two rushers combined for all 44 yards the Mob gained on the opening drive of the fourth quarter, with Powers running for 23 and Turner gaining 21. 
The seven-play drive culmi­nated in a 10-yard scamper by Powers into the end zone. The subsequent extra point put the Mob up for good. 

Morrissey 20, Dillon 20 
Extra points were the decid­ing factor in Sunday's 20-20 tie between Dillon and Morrissey. Each team scored three touchdowns, but the out­comes of point-after attempts left neither victorious. 
Morrissey attempted a two­point conversion after all three touchdowns, converting once, and Dillon attempted a traditional point-after after each of its three touchdowns, converting on twice. 
Morrissey took the opening drive 65 yards in 10 plays and scored on a 4-yard touchdown run by senior captain Nick Bencomo. 
But Dillon answered on the next drive when sophomore quarterback Joe Garigliano connected on three of four passes on the drive for 50 yards, including a 12-yard scoring strike to sophomore wide receiver Chris Cugliari. The extra point gave the Big Red a 7-6 lead. 
"It has just been a matter of 
time before the offense broke 
out like this," Dillon captain 
Alex Duffy said. "Cugliari 
drew it up like this, and we 
have been practicing it. It was 
only a matter of time before 
we ran it error-free." 
But the Dillon lead was 
short-lived. The Manorites 
scored on the ensuing drive on 
a 31-yard halfback pass by 
running back Danny Deveny. 
Another failed two-point 
attempt knpt the Morrissey 
lead at 12-7. 
Going into halftime, Duffy 
knew his team needed to slow 
down the high-powered 
Morrissey attack. 
"We definitely made some 
adjustments on the line and 
some in the secondary as 
well," Duffy said. 

After taking a 14-12 lead on . a 5-yard run from Garigliano, 
the Big Hed defense shut down 
the next Morrissey drive, forc­
ing a fumble. 
But Dillon fumbled three 
plays later, this time with Morrissey recovering the ball on the 1-yard line. Manorites junior quaterback Joe McBrayer sneaked it across the goal line for the score. The ensuing two-point attempt was successful, giving Morrissey a 20-14 lead with seven minutes remaining. 
After marching down to the Morrissey 4-yard line, Dillon faced a critical fourth-and-one with one minute left. Duffy· called a timeout to strategize with his team. 
"We were deciding whether we wanted to do a quarter­back sneak or hand it off to me," Duffy said. "I said that we should give it to me. I would get it." 
Duffy did just that, plowing forward for the fourth down conversion. He scored on the next play, a 3-yard run that tied the game at 20-20. 
Going for the win, Dillon attempted an extra point, but it was blocked by the Morrissey defensive line, _ keeping the score tied at 20­20. 
Contact Griffin Dassatti at gdas­satt@nd.edu and Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu 

was picked up and returned for a touchdown, giving Alumni the 6-0 lead. 
"Coming out quickly and get­ting that score was big for us," Alumni senior defensive end Jason Nagle said. "However, we knew we couldn't just sit back on a six-point lead." 
Stroh also sustained an injury to his left (non-throw­ing) shoulder on the play, forc­ing the Mob to play freshman Bobby Powers. Normally, switching quarterbacks mid­game is something to be avoided. But, as O'Neill senior captain Pat Conley explained later, this was something the Mob is used to. 
"Throughout the season we've been able to play with both quarterbacks," Conley said. "Our team has not been quarterback-based, and we know they can both run the offense effectively." 
After the switch, the teams traded possessions for the remainder of the first half. 
But Nagle said he noticed optimism in his team at half­time. 
"There was a feeling of con­fidence on the sideline at half; however we knew we had to keep up the intensity to come 
Tuesday, October 16, 2007

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
Sunday with a 7-6 victory over down the sideline with sopho­making their first contact until triumph on Wednesday night. Knott in a game characterized more receiver Jeff Skorup for four or five yards downfield," "If we win, we have a good
Fisher 
by turnovers. continued from page 20 The Juggerknotts were unable 
to string their promising offen­Brendan McCarthy fell on the sivo successes together into a ball in tlw end zone to cut complete drive, falling victim to Siegfried's h~ad to 7-6. an interception and four fum-
But  the  bles,  three  of  
Ham biers  which were lost  
quiekly struck back, as Garda found Kelly for a 65-yard score  "It feels great to be undefeated, and we are happy to be back  during the snap from center. "When you put it on the ground  
on the first play of the ensuing  in the playoffs."  five times, you are going to go  
drive. Kelly broko one tack­ Kevin Rabil  down," Knott coach Brian Lohr  
If~  near midfield  Fisher quarterback  said.  
and  was in the  The game start- 
dear  as  he  ed with a fumbled  

headed to the end zone to give snap by Knott freshman quar­the Hamblnrs a 13-6 lead. terback Nick Lezynski that gave 
The St. !<:d's ofl'ense continued Fisher excellent field position. to struggle, moving tho ball but Fisher senior quarterback coming up empty in crueial situ­Kevin Habil wasted no time ations until midway through the driving his offense down the fourth quarter. After an Abeling field, connecting on a deep pass interception was nullified by a to senior receiver Pat Gotebeski roughing the passer penalty, he to put the Green Wave on the 5­hit Stedsnwn junior receiver yard line. l{yan Farrtdl in the corner of Habit then hooked up with tlw end zone for a 30-yard junior receiver John O'Connell touchdown pass. for the first score of the game, 
Af'tor the score. St. Ed's coach and the Green Wave converted Cameron llogun stuck with the the extra point to make the darin!{ strategy that had seen score 7-0. the Stedsmen call pass plays on "We were down by the end all but one of their offensive zone, and we needed a quick plays. St. Ed's elected to pass," Habit said. "I saw they attempt tlw two-point conver­were playing off and it was sion for the win. but Abeling's open." pass was knocked away in the O'Connell credited his quar­end zonn, securing the terback's vision for the touch­Hamblnrs victory. down pass. 
"Wo just came out flat today, "I saw an opening and got but we're a lot bntter than we underneath the coverage, and played," St. Ed's senior captain Kevin IHabit) made a great (~n Wang said. "If we play like throw," O'Connell said. wn did in thn second half. no Fisher and Knott then traded one can beat us." turnovers and punts, but an 
Frnshman Mark Costanzo had interception by O'Connell ended two intnrn~ptions. and fellow a promising Knott drive at the fn~shman Chris Dinkins record­end of the first half. ed a sack for a St. Ed's defense "I was able to watch the quar­that allowed 220 yards. terback's eyes, and I rolled with 
While tlw Hamblers may have him. lie overthrew the ball and all but seeurnd a playofl' berth, it was just right there," thny said thoy are still looking O'Connell said. forward to Wednesday's show­The second half started slow­down with Fisher in the regular ly, with both teams punting and season finale for both teams. fumbling once before Knott's 
offense started to show some Fisher 7, Knott 6 life. Fislwr stayed undefeated Lezynski connected deep 
Knott's first and only score. 

"I told the team at halftime 
that if we got into the end-zone 
we would go for two," Lohr 
said. "If we were able to con­
vert, it would have taken the 
heart out of Fisher." 

But the Juggerknotts were not able to convert on the two-point try, and Fisher held onto its 7-6 lead. 
The Juggerknotts defense forced a punt on Fisher's ensu­ing possession, but a third dropped snap by Lezynski let Fisher to run out the clock and seal the game. 
Knott dropped to 1-3 and is most likely knocked out of play­off contention, but Lohr has confidence for next year. 
"We are only graduating three seniors this year," Lohr said. "We'll do well next year." 
Fisher's 3-0 start puts it in prime position to grab the No. 1 seed in the playoffs if the Green Wave can beat Siegfried on Thursday. 
"rt feels great to be undefeat­ed, and we are really happy to be back in the playoffs," Habil said. "Hopefully, we can carry some of this momentum into the postseason." 
Sorin 24, Carroll 0 

Sorin kept its slim playoff hopes alive Sunday with a 24-0 victory over Carroll. 
The Otters, now 1-2, need a win Wednesday night against Zahm and help from several other teams in order to reach the playoffs. 
"We had our backs against the wall and we came out with a real sense of urgency," Sorin captain Hyan Bove said. "We had no turnovers or penalties, and that had been killing us this season." 
Against the Vermin, Sorin relied on a power running attack led by sophomore Joe Vittoria, who had 13 carries for 57 yards, and sophomore Rob Gallic, who had 7 5 yards on 8 rushes. 
Bove credited the successful rushing attack to great play by the offensive line. 
"Our running backs weren't 
Bove said. "The line made a chance," Bove said. "We just world of difference." have to out and win." 
Gallic and Vittoria's rushing, along with a long pass from Stanford 12, Keough 7 sophomore quarterback Casey Stanford's miscues nearly cost McGushin to freshman receiver it the game, but the team over­Jon Beckerle, helped Sorin came two penalties that took drive down the field for a 25-touchdowns off the board and yard field goal and a 3-0 lead. defeated Keough 12-7. 
Carroll struggled to find "As a team, we feel pretty momentum on offense, going good about the win," Stanford three-and-out on its first drive. junior captain Rob lluth said. Sorin capitalized on the stop, "That being said, as a team, we again relying on the sophomore all feel like we did not play dis­running back duo to lead it ciplined football with all the down the field. This time, penalties we had and almost McGushin was able to find gave the game away to sophomore receiver Jeremy Keough." Bruck on a quick slant for the Keough pounded the ball touchdown. down Stanford's throat early in 
Carroll got the ball to start the the game. But the Griffins' second half but fumbled on the defense eventually solidified first play, giving Sorin posses­and forced a turnover on sion on the Vermin 35-yard line. downs. Stanford senior running But the Otters could not get the back Bryce Fugarino had two ball into the end zone. as long runs on Stanford's opening Carroll made a goal-line stand drive, putting the ball in the end 
on  fourth  zone on the second  
down to keep the score at  "We had our backs  of the two. Stanford missed the extra  
10-0. After anoth­er Carroll p u n t ,  against the wall and we came out with a real sense of  point, leaving the score at 6-0. Stanford had two chances to put the  
McGushin found junior  urgency.  game away early, but costly penalties  
receiver Dan McMahon on  Ryan Bove  nullified two Griflin scores. On the  
the third play  Sorin captain  drive  following  
of the posses­ their first score, the  
sion along the  ·  Griffins ran a fake  

right sideline. McMahon caught punt that went for a touchdown. the pass at the 25-yard line and But the play was called back shook off a Vermin defender to because of an illegal formation get to the end zone and extend penalty. the Otters lead to 17-0. On Keough's next possession, 
Sorin scored again on the last Stanford came up with an inter­play of the game, on another ception that led to a lateral, a pass from McGushin to fumble and a Griffins' recovery Beckerle. for a touchdown. But that score 
Vermin captain Kyle was also called back because of Kownacki attributed his team's a hold on the return. 0-4 season to a lack of adequate Despite the nullified touch­practice time. downs, Stanford's 12 points are 
"Talent-wise, we can hang the most points that the Griflins with anyone in this league," have scored in a game all sea-Kownacki said. "But we've got son. no timing because we've had trouble getting guys to prac­Contact Jared Jedick at tice." jjedick@nd.edu, Sam Werner at 
Bove believes his team has a swerner@nd.edu, Mike Gotimer chance to make the playoffs, at mgotimer@nd.edu and Matt and the Otters know they must Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

Tuesday, October 16, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
BLACK DoG 
I KtJEIN' I HI>J) A l'~~I..EM. t't>-A STEAL. FROM c.~ATE.$, 
J>OWN·A TI-lE $~W£R. ... THE.. MvSHIZ.OoMS ... THE.Y ~VJT·A M"t>E ME. FEEL. &It:-. 
YEAH I l>itM". S"ONIETIME.S TwE.L.vE. Fov/t.TEJ::N !!>~ 1r-1 SITToNCr. MY FRIENDS Tl> 6-ET ME To SToP... 1' t> Jv.S.T TI1It.D W n-IE EMPTY 13AR:.i'el..S AT THEM. 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
WAKKA-W'AKKA­WAKKA-WAKKA­BE£-EEE-EEE-oww­WooP-WooP! 
MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
DEUCES MANOR 
e Dame Viev,rpoint ' 

I am writing about the recent rcomic strim that was !adverb) published on (date) . I know you must have received (large numben of letters about the comic because of it<> insensithity toward (overblown issue> . I feel (adverb) about (O\'erblovvn issue\ because my friend during wear of college) was (adjective) . r 3rd person pronoun) was mast tense verb) because of his;her situation and I have no idea why you guys think it is (adjective) to make fun of. Your comic is (adjecth·e) and radjective) and you shoulJ go (action phrase) . 
Sincerely, 
OpinionateJ and Offended Girl 

Minority St. Mary's Sidewalk Abortion Proud Prophylactic Parietals Al Gore Jesus AIDS Gender Relations Respect ED Supersoalz Facebook Profiles Mark May USC Body Image Dining Hall Euthanasia BC Irish language Intelligent We are ND Osama Bin Laden 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 

CROSSWORD 
Across 40 Horse course Trots 

41 Two ... 5 Seaweed 
44 Prefix with con
product 45 W.W. I German 

9 Visual 
admiral
movement popularized in 46 Rafael's wrap the 1960s 
47 On edge

14 Twist-apart treat 
49 Big atlas section

15 God, for George Burns or Morgan 51 Fateful March Freeman date 16 U.P.S. supply 52 Mother's 17 One ... hermana 20 Artist's mishap 54 Cable for 21 79, for gold: money? Abbr. 
56 lolani Palace 22 Brenner Pass locale locale 
59 Simmer (down) 23 Many a TV clip 
61 "I wanna!'' 

25 ''i" completer 
65 Three ...

27 Helpless? 68 End of a fight
30 Headed out 32 Averse 69 Langston Hughes poem 
36 Noted polonaise composer 70 Largest volcano 38 Kind of vaccine in Europe 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

71 Athenian lawgiver who introduced trial by jury 
72 Big do 73 "Durn it!" 
Down 
Writes quickly 2 City near Provo 3 Subject of 
modern "mapping" 4 Fizzy drinks at a five-and-ten 5 J.F.K. posting: Abbr. 6 Start limping 
7 One, two and three ... or this puzzle's title 
8 Guide strap 9 Baby docs, briefly 1 0 It has eyes that 
can't see 11 1Yz rotation leap 12 Bring in the 
sheaves 13 Tut's kin? 18 Goof 
19 O.K. sign 24 Confess (to) 26 Half an old 
comedy duo 27 Bloodhound's 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Manny Nosowsky 
37 Immigrant from 53 Crackerjack 62 Prefix with Japan physical

55 Mom's skill, 63 Thomas who39 Analyze, as ore briefly 
wrote "The 42 Grant-giving org. 56 Makes up one's Magic Mountain" mind (to)
43 High school 64 Slate, e.g., for course, for short 57 Sleek, in auto short talk
48 Wall plaster 66 Rooster's mate 58 Burglar's booty 
50 "Yes, you are!" 67 It goes for a retort 60 "You wish!" buck 
trail 

For answers, call 1·900·285·5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 28"Gol/y" credit card, 1·800·814-5554. 29 Access the Web Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 ·ACROSS. 
31 "Don't give up!" Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
33 In first place 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).34 Brownish gray 

Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 35 Ballyhoos solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJl1JOOJ1J1JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
KYMOS ± 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r~?fl] 


WHEN HI= WAS IDLO
IMOYGOL j 
ABOUT THE: HOLE: 
IN THE: WALL, THE:
ri I I
1 
C.OP SAID Hl=V--­
www.jumble.com 
TINOOL j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I I r [J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 

" rI I I J' rI I I JIT 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: KEYED GUMMY ELICIT FINISH Answer: What she decided when the eye doctor asked her out -TO "SEE" HIM 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Vanessa Marcil, 38; Sarah Ferguson, 48; Emeril Lagasse, 48; Tanya Roberts, 52 
Happy Birthday: Limit your spending this year, set up a tight budget and save as much as you can. Once you get started, you will realize your stress level has gone down and you can relax a bit. This time next year you can consider taking that dream vacation, purchasing that big ticket item or paying off your debt. Your numbers are 5, 8, 16, 23, 39, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Travel, if you must, in order to sign a deal. Some­one may pay off a debt owed you. Money is in the stars but don't spend it all at once. 5 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't listen to a fast-talker feeding you a line about an investment. Play it safe where money matters are concerned. Chances are good that someone older or younger in your family will lean on you today. Love is on the rise. 3 stars GEMINI (May 21-Jone 20): You may feel as if you are in the eye of the storm today. Take a step back and watch everything unfold. You can do your best work after the dust settles. Let your intuition lead you and refuse to make rash deci­sions. 2 stars CANCER (June 21-Joly 22): Work may get you down but it's of utmost impor­tance that you get things finished on time. Someone you meet will turn you on to something that you will enjoy doing. A new hobby or activity will rejuvenate you. 3 stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): If you don't overspend or overindulge, you will gain ground. Someone from your past is likely to surface •• proceed with caution but don't run away. You have something to learn that will help you put a doubt to rest. 5 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You have to pace yourself if you want to get ahead. Problems at home may leave you feeling vulnerable. Take precautions but don't hide out. It's better to resolve matters while they are fresh. 2 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Try to do things that will not break your bankbook. You should begin a new project or get involved in activities that will stimulate you mentally, physically and emotionally. A change in scenery will do you good. 4 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Business problems will occur if you have trusted someone you should have avoided. Be a quick-change artist and you should be able to outsmart anyone trying to pull a fast one on you. Don't hesitate to make a move or manipulate a situation. 3 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't gel so wrapped up in what everyone else is doing that you neglect your responsibilities. You won't be able to relax with the changes taking place. Keeping up with everyone may be more difficult than you expect. 2 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't let your desire for something put you in an awkward financial position. If you can't pay outright, wait until you can. Health issues may arise if you've let yourself get rundown. Take a little time out for yourself. 3 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb, 18): You know what you have to do to get what you want but don't do so at the expense of someone else. Meddling or getting in­volved in something you shouldn't will not bring the results you expect. Concen­trate on being productive and helpful. 4 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Chances are good that you will miss out on infor­mation you require in order to excel. Travel and communication will be dicey, causing mishaps and misunderstandings. Don't overreact. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are well-rounded, worldly and an inventor. You like to create, develop and do things that are a little different. You are emotional, sensi­
tive and tend to overdo. 

Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, October 16, 2007 
page 20 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Siegfried beats St. Ed's as Green Wave sweeps Juggerknotts away 
By JARED )EDICK, SAM WERNER, MIKE GOTIMER and MATT GAMBER Sports Writers 
In its l'irst three games, all victories, St. Ed's did not allow freshman quarterback Matt /\boling to be sacked once. 
That streak is over. 

i\beling was sacked three times and hurried phmty of oth­ers in a 1:~-12 loss to Siegfried Sunday. 
"We knew they were going to como out throwing. so we just wont after them hard all day," said senior defensive lineman Tom Martin, who recorded a pair of sacks for the Hamblers. "We hadn't gotten as much prnssure up front as we would have liked the last few games, but today we got the job done." 
Juniors Tom Scrace, who claimed the other Siegfried sack, and Tom Owens, who intereepted an errant /\boling throw, led a defense that shut down a St. Ed's oiTense that had looked dominant the past three wenks. 
Ramblin' men 
"We're really happy with our dnftmse," Martin said. "We gave up a couple of big plays, but that's all they got. We held them in pretty much all day." 
The defensive effort, com­bined with the dock-controlling running of junior Mare us Young (14 carries, 70 yards) and a pair of touehdown eatches from senior Kevin Kelly. gave the Stndsmnn all they could handle. 
"Thoy're smaller than us, and we felt like we could beat them up and just run it down their throats," Young said. "They only had a few guys in the box, so that's what we stuck to all day." 
The Hamblers established their efficient passing game early, as freshman quarterback Mike Garda hit Kelly for a 43­yard completion on Siegfried's second play from scrimmage. Four plays later, freshman full­back Dan Scime took an outside toss then dropped back and threw a strike to Kelly for an 11-yard touchdown. 
After a St. Ed's punt pinned the Hamblers back at their own 5-yard line, Siegfried went three-and-out. A mishandled snap on the punt attempt allowed St. Ed's to block the punt, and Stedsmen junior 
see FISHER/page 18 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles take on Albion in final ho111e ga111e of season 
play and 9-14 overall, the Belles only measure of success. I want Mary's. Setting the pace of the hardest to play against, and By SAMANTHA LEONARD havn had their ups and downs this this team to step onto the court game will bn the Belles' top o~jec­Schroeder-Biek is expecting her Sports Wrircr season. Tlwir reeord started to and compete from start to finish," tive against Albion. Belles to meet the dmllenge. 
spiral downward aftnr a 3-0 loss Belles coach Julie Schrooder-Biek "Albion's strength is in their "Team efTort is key in this 
Saint Mary's hosts Albion to llopn on Oct. 4. Saint Mary's said. "We are such a good team, outsidn attack; they also have match." Sehronder-Biek said. "I tonight at 7 in tlw Bolles' final tlwn lost to last-plaee Olivet in a but we just, many times, start some pretty strong servers," oxpect everyone to step thnir match at tlw i\ngPla Athletic brutal, live-game match. slow and then chase the opponent Schroeder-Biek said. "When we game up. We are in the horne Facility this sPason. Tlw Belles i\l'tnr going 2-2 in thn Millikin rather than set the standard and played them early in the season, stretch and ncml evnryone's full an~ sixth in tlw MIA/\ standings Invitational this weekend, the make the opponent chase us." they played well as a team and elltxt." and hope to pass fifth-plaen Belles am looking for a win to get With a record of 5-6 in league really backed each other up and Albion. back on track. play and 8-13 overall, Albion were scrappy on defensn." Contact Samantha Leonard at 
With a n~cord of 4-7 in lnagw~ "Winning is definitely not my matches up evenly with Saint A scrappy team can be the sleonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Augustin shines for Irish 
Freshman sees more time in absence of injured Irish starters 

Notre !>arne's recent success has eorne at a time when two of tlw team's most prolific scorers arn struggling with injuries. 
Senior forward and eaptain Amanda Cinalli missed her third straight game Sunday beeause of a hamstring injury, and sopho­more forward Miehele Weissenholi~r played just over half the game bncausn of a recent ankln injury. 
And yet. during thnir rurrnnt 
see AUGUSTIN/page17 


SMC SOCCER 
Squad prepares to face vvinless Tri-State 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's looks to move above .500 in the MIAA today when the Belles head to Angola, Ind., to play last-place Tri-State. 
Saint Mary's (6-3-4, 2-2-2 MIAA) is in fifth place, while Tri-State (0-12-2, 0-5) is look­ing for its first victory of the season. 
"Tri-State has had a very dif­ficult season." Belles coach Caryn MacKenzie said. "They have no wins in our conference and have been outscored by their opponents significantly." 
Saint Mary's is coming ofT a 2-0 loss Saturday to first-place Calvin, in which the Belles had only three shots. That total was their second lowest of the sea­son. 
Against Calvin. the Belles struggled in front of the goal, one of their major problems this season. But MacKenzie said her team is better than it showed on Saturday 
"[Our goal is to) start the game on the whistle tomorrow, not after our opponents sccm~s on us in the first two minutes," MacKenzie said. "We must be prepared to play at a high level from the outset." 
The Belles have also strug­gled this season because of' fac­tors beyond their control. Injuries have forced Saint Mary's to shift players into 
see TRI-STATE/page 17 








