
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Following White's journey to ND 
By KEN FOWLER News Writer 
Editor's note: This is the second story in a four-part series looking at Notre Dame's athletic depart­ment under the direction ofKevin White as he enters his eighth year at the school. 
Now entrenched at Notre Dame for more than seven years, Kevin White's career once seemed far less stable. 
He was a star among young athletic directors, both an image­changer and a fund-raiser, sought by schools looking for a fresh face with a track record of success. By his mid-40s, White was exactly what colleges want­ed, and at no time was that more evident than in the summer of 1997. 
Just a year into his tenure at Arizona State, Division I-A uni­versities were once again calling to see if White would be interest­ed in leaving the ever-improving school. But White's answer was always ti)e same, even if univer­sity presidents tried their hardest to make it change. 
In his first year at Arizona State, the Sun Devils football team went 11-1, falling three points short of a national champi­onship with a 20-17 loss to Ohio State in the Rose Bowl. Donations went through the roof. 
That led to many would-be suitors, something White never denied. In the search for success and self-sufficiency -and a clean, spirited face to guide an athletic department -the 46­year-old White was a natural fit. 
In an interview with the Times-
see WH!TE/page 4 

KEVIN WHITE'S CAREER 
Loraa College 

White serves as Director of Athletics White serves as Vice President for Student Development, Dean of Students White serves as Vice President for College Advacement 
University of Maine, Director of Athletics Tulane University, Director ofAthletics 
Tulane becomes charter member of Conference USA 
Arizona State University, Director of Athletics 
Arizona State football goes 11-1 $5 million naming rights deal with Wells Fargo is centerpiece of $20 million fund raising campaign 
Notre Dame hires White as Direetor ofAtb.1et:ics 
Graphic by Madeline Nies 


NCAA report details academic success 

Graphic by Madeline Nies 

Liberal arts grads go off beaten path· 
Arts and Letters professors build careers after unorthodox job diversions 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 

As Arts and Letters seniors approach graduation, they must determine the answer to a ques­tion with which they are no doubt familiar -what can they do with their majors? 
Notre Dame Arts and Letters professors faced the same ques­tion when they were liberal arts undergraduates. While they even­tually pursued careers in acade­mia, their experiences demon­strate the wide variety of uses for an Arts and Letters degree. 
Associate professor of philoso­phy Bill Ramsey wound up work­ing on "a massive laser about the size of a gymnasium" after gradu­
see JOBS/page 4 

Faculty withholds 2008 ca:mpaign donations 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
While potential candidates for the 2008 presidential election have already begun touring the country and making appearances at rallies and talk shows, the elec­tion frenzy has yet to reach Notre Dame. 
As of Thursday, no Notre Dame professor had made aiJ.Y donations to any campaign, according to the Federal Election Committee (FEC). This lack of donations follows the trend observed in the 2004 presi­dential election, when only five Notre Dame professors and no Saint Mary's professors donated to campaigns. 
That's a striking contrast to the behavior of faculty members at other prestigious universities, as 130 professors at Georgetown made donations in 2004, and 18 have donated already to 2008 campaigns. 
Georgetown, however, could arguably be expected to display a heightened political involvement, given its location in Washington and the high number of former government officials that serve the university as professors -includ­ing the father of presidential can­didate Christopher Dodd. Boston College, however, al<>o outnumbers Notre Dame in its faculty's political donations. In 2004, 38 Boston College faculty members donated to presidential campaigns, and seven have already donated in the current election cycle. 
Additionally, at Northwestern, 115 faculty members donated for 
see DONATIONS/page 6 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT News Writer 
Notre Dame is recognized for its academics and its athletics, and Notre Dame student-athletes have demonstrated again that they ar'e not mutually exclu­sive attributes. 
The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) released its Annual Progress Report for U.S col­leges this week and Notre Dame athletes have once again ranked high in aca­demic excellence when com­pared to peer institutions. 
Eleven Notre Dame teams were honored for academic distinction -men's basket­ball, men's cross country, men's fencin·g, men's golf, men's indoor track and field, men's outdoor track and field, women's fencing, women's soccer, women's softball, women's tennis and women's volleyball. 

Only the U.S. Naval Academy, Boston College and Stanford had more teams honored for academic performance Duke University and Rice University also had eleven programs honored. 
This isn't unusual for Notre Dame, said Senior Associate Athletics Director John Heisler. 
"Gene~ally, this is where 
see RANKINGS/page 3 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

NDASK gathers experts 
ByJENN METZ News Writer 

Notre Dame Against State Killing (NDASK) held a forum Saturday and Sunday called -"Achieving the Inevitable: Ending the Death Penalty in Indiana" -giving speakers and students a chance to dis­cuss, learn and focus on the develop­ments the club has made over the past year. 
A group of 


s t u d e n t s McNally formed NDASK last fall through the Center for Social Concerns with the goal of achieving a mora­torium on the death penalty in Indiana by building a statewide 
network of support for the cause. 
The conference this weekend was a conclusion to the club's work during its first year. NDASK has about 30 active student mem­bers and a newsletter readership of 200 working to fight the death penalty through education. 
Speakers at the conference included top experts on the death penalty in Indiana. Priests and lawyers, like Father Tom McNally, a Holy Cross priest and volunteer chaplain at the Michigan City Prison, and Chris Hitz-Bradley of the Indiana Information Center on the Abolition of Capital Punishment spoke on campus this weekend. 
Junior Andrea Laidman, co­director of NDASK, said the forum turned into an unexpected sununit 
see NDASK/page 6 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, April 30, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 


No dessert, please 

The average genius knows that the restaurant industry is proliferating. 
According to smartmoney.com, Americans now spend roughly half their food budget dining out. In fact, this year, 
restaurants are Rohan Anand 
expected to earn $537 billion in rev­
News Wire 
enue, a 67 percent 
Editor

jump in the past decade. Why are we dishing out more sums of cash for dishes that haven't really changed in the past few years? 
True, population growth calls for more mouths to feed and raises the demand for outside dining ifit's less time consuming or expensive than preparing meals at home. But the real reason is that restau­rants possess some wily marketing tac­tics to lure the watering mouths -and wallets -ofthe American people. 
One popular trick is the "dress-ups" for dishes and beverages, where you fork over cash for a meal worth four times as much as it cost the restaurant to prepare. Coffees, teas, and sodas costs them no more than 15 to 20 cents a serving, yet even moderately priced restaurants charge up to $2.50 for these beverages, often without free refills. 
The rip-off value multiplies with main course meals. Pasta literally costs pen­nies for restaurants, but with fixings like sauce or vegetables, they can be "dressed up" and sold for $25 a dish or more. Additionally, restaurants will juxtapose a $15 pa<>ta dish on the menu with a $21 chicken dish, and then the customer will fall for the trap, opting for the pasta mis­takenly thinking they've found a bargain. 
Watch out for fishy things with seafood. These items tend to be the priciest on menus ifyou're not at a renowned seafood restaurant or chain, and you might not get what you expect. Many cus­tomers fall for the illusion of "Maryland crab cakes" that never came from the Chesapeake Bay at all. 
Maryland-style crab? Come on. Your crabs were most likely imported from Thailand or Vietnam at a frighteningly cheaper price than what you paid. Also, sometimes restaurants substitute inex­pensive fish, such as pollock, for some­thing pricier, such as cod. 
You might want to remember to pro­tect your arteries as well. Ifyou think that a seafood, pasta and salad dish is "healthier" because you're avoiding red meat and cholesterol, think again. No limitation on butter usually means the average restaurant meal carries a sick­ening load of 1,000-1,500 calories. For instance, a burger at restaurant like Ruby Tuesday contains twice as many calories and fat grams as McDonald's Big Mac. 
Be wary about how much you tip. In many restaurants, the 10 dollars that you offered gratuitously to the nice, pretty waitress may not make it home with her after all -instead, it may be divided up amongst the bartender, the apprentice waiter, etc. "Tip pools," as they are called, especially take in effect when restaurants state a 20% service charge for larger parties. 
Now, this isn't to discourage you from eating out at restaurants -be adventur­ous! Try new things, new restaurants, and get some fresh air with the family. However, don't let your guard down. Check restaurant reviews, customer sat­isfaction ratings or seek advice from trustworthy friends, otherwise you may end up doing yourself more harm than good. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publica­tion and srrives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 63 I -4 54 I so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS SOMETHING THAT MOST PEOPLE WOULD NEVER BELIEVE ABOUT YOU? 






Tim Loh Evelyn Hyder Katie Rooney Doug Cummings Cheryl Zabrowski 
senior senior junior senior freshman Keough farley Howard Sarin Lewis 
"/once pogo-"/ can write in "It took me a "/ am Batman. " '7 like to spoon 
sticked 4,ooo mirror-image whole half-hour times in a row. " fluently with to figure out an either hand." answer to this 
question ... and yes, they waited." 

Photographer plans largest nude shoot ever 
MEXICO CITY American photographer Spencer Tunick said Sunday he was hoping to draw his largest crowd of nude people for a shoot next month in Mexico City's enormous Zocalo plaza. 
Tunick, famous for pho­tographing crowds of nude people around the world, said the May 6 shoot could be bigger than one he did in 2003 with 7,000 volun­teer models in Barcelona, Spain. 
"This could be my largest work ever," Tunick told a 
TODAY 
a: 
1.&.1 
:c 
~ 
1.&.1 

3: 
..... 
<C 
(,) 

news conference. "We're really hoping that all eyes will be on Mexico City on May 6 because this could be bigger than Barcelona." 
The historic Zocalo plaza measures about 21,000 square yards -the size of about five football fields ­and can fit up to 85,000 people standing. 
Tunick said last month that 3,700 participants had registered for the shoot. On Sunday, he said more were signing up but declined to give a figure. 
Bill intends to make menu spam illegal 

NEW YORK -You've heard of e-m~il spam ­now a New York City coun­cilman wants to do some­thing about menu spam, the unwanted menus and circulars that have a way of appearing on city doorsteps and under doors. 
Simcha Felder has intro­duced legislation that would make it illegal to distribute menus, circulars and fliers to homes and apartment buildings that display a sign indicating promotional materials are unwanted. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

(f 
0 

HIGH 75 HIGH 65 HIGH 73 HIGH 64
.... 
LOW 57 LOW 55 LOW 44 LOW 42 
with Tiffany Moy. " 
IN BRIEF 

Big Yellow Taxi, Notre Dame's service-oriented a capella group, will perform tonight from 6 p.m to 7 in Washington Hall. The event is free, although donations are encouraged to benefit Dismas House, a local charity. 
A funeral service for Corporal Nick Polizzotto, a South Bend Police officer killed in the line of duty, will be held today in the Joyce Center. The public is welcome to attend the service, from 10:00 a.m. to 
12:30 p.m. Civil personnel can enter the Joyce Center through Gate 10 and law enforcement personnel can enter through Gate 4. Significant traffic delays are expected on Edison Rd., Angela Blvd, and along Eddy St. between 12:15 p.m. and 1 :45 p.m. 
The last day of classes is Wednesday. 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band will perform Tuesday at 7:30 
p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The Band will be joined by jazz musician Jeff Clayton. Tickets are $5 for the general public, faculty, staff and students. 
Penny Peng, the mother of the first woman from mainland China to graduate from Notre Dame, will lead a presentation and discussion of her book "On the Great Wall," Thursday from 4 p.m. to 5 in Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune. This event is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
(f 


HIGH 67 HIGH 68 LOW 44 LOW 46 
Atlanta 84/ 55 Boston 69/42 Chicago 72/59 Denver 85/47 Houston 84/67 Los Angeles 74 I 58 Minneapolis 71 I 51 New York 73 I 49 Philadelphia 77/51 Phoenix 98 I 72 Seattle 62/45 St. Louis 88/65 Tampa 86 I 65 Washington 81 I 54 
Monday, April 30, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Seniors give recitals at SMC 
Vocal performance majors take part in 'unique experience,' display talents 
By KATIE KOHLER 
Saint Mq,ry's Editor 
While their classmates write papers and complete exams on their way to graduation, senior vocal performance majors at Saint Mary's face a different fmal obstacle -the senior recital. 
Laurel Thomas, associate pro­fessor of music and the voice and opera instructor in the depart­ment, said the recitals are a unique experience for seniors. 
"This has been one of the most wonderful years of my teaching career, due in great part to these four students who have been such a privilege and a joy to teach," she said. 
This year, the performance majors are Katelyn Wood, Mallory O'Brien, Erin Anhut and Lindsey Anderson. 
Not all music majors are required .to give a recital, although they are required to complete composition projects, which are "an in-depth historical and theoretical analysis of a composition," Thomas said. 
"Only the performance majors are required to give a full-length senior recital," she said. 
Each semester, these perform­ance majors are also required to perform a "jury" in front of the music department faculty. A jury involves a high-level perform­ance of the repertoire studied each semester, Anderson said. Performance majors are required to perform half a recital their junior year and a full recital senior year. 
"All of these requirements are what contribute to an exception­al department that is fully accredited by the National Association of Schools of Music (NASM)," she said. 
Thomas' role is to help them choose their repertoire. 
"Students sing arias and songs from four historical time periods in four languages -Italian, French, German and English," she said. 
This requirement is a daunting task for the seniors. 
"Being a senior music major and preparing for a recital is both demanding and exciting," Wood said. "Not only do we have to learn how to speak clearly in different languages, but we also have to know each translation of the musical text and how to relate it to the audience." 
Wood's recital was based on folk songs in Czech and Russian as well as the four required lan­guages. 
"This year, every one of my stu­dents chose repertoire very spe­cific to her personality and vocal strengths," Thomas · said. "Mallory [O'Brien] loves the smoky salon music of Poi.Ilenc and the voluptuous melodies of Strauss. Erin [Anhut] stole the show with her comic abilities throughout her recital and, while singing beautifully, gave the most convincing portrayal of the Doll's aria from Tales of Hoffman that I have ever seen or heard." 
She had similar praise for Anderson. 
"Lindsey [Anderson] is headed for a professional career," she said. "On Sunday, she [sang] one of the most exquisite song cycles of Schumann." 
Besides the performance itself, seniors are also wholly responsi­ble for planning and executing their recitals. 
"Planning for the recital requires much more work than many people realize," Anderson said. "In addition to singing, the performers have to design posters, arrange for technical assistance in the theater, handle all publicity and plan a reception if they choose to have one. Even though it is a lot of work, it is done with a smile." 
Wood planned her recital while at home over se:(llester break. 
"Unlike Lindsey [Anderson], I was not fundraising and handled everything at home," Wood said. "My parents and voice teacher helped me." 
Anderson relied on assistance from the communications department to publicize her recital. 
"I am very fortunate to have [public relations commissioner] Alanna Chiefari to help with pub­licity," she said. "Her knowledge of public relations has been so helpful and a wonderful way to create a liaison between our two departments." 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintrnarys.edu 

ESPN The Magazine's 
first-team Academic All­
America with a 3.59 GPA. continued from page 1 However, Heisler noted 
that the football team has we fit in almost any of the improved its collective measurements -we've academic standing in the been up among the lead­past two years. He said ers," Heisler said. players have posted the 
According to a 2006 "highest GPAs in the histo­NCAA report, seven men's ry of the program" in that teams and seven women's time. teams from Notre Dame The students themselves have-in the deserve the last several most credit, 
Rankings 
"We don ,t lose
years Heisler said, scored perfect people from an with their 1000s on the "commitment
academic 
Academic to being suc­
standpoint. The 
Progress cessful aca­Rate, a meas­University takes demically." 
ure of great pride in "You don't 
whether stu­come to Notre
that.,,

dents meet Dame to cut NCAA aca­corners," demic goals. John Heisler Heisler said. Notre Dame "From a
senior associate 
athletes per­recruiting

athletics director 
form excep­tionally well academically when com­pared to their peers due to the "general commitment of the University" to aca­demics, Heisler said. 
"This speaks to the way in which our coaches go about supporting the com­mitment to academics," Heisler said, "[Academics Services for Student Athletes Director] Pat Holmes and the Academic Services division have a lot to do with that as well." 
Notre Dame football was not one of the sports hon­ored for academic excel­lence, despite senior John Carlson being named to 
standpoint ... 
if you don't have an interest in aca­demics, Notre Dame's not going to be a place for you." 
Notre Dame also pos­sesses a high retention rate and a "complete lack of attrition" for student athletes, Heisler said. 
"If you're here for four years, the odds of your receiving a degree are hugely high in your favor," Heisler said. "We don't lose people from an aca­demic standpoint. The University takes great pride in that." 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 30, 2007 
To most observers, Cords and The Observer last October, Michigan State. tory, and White forced Frieder Taylor were only fallbacks -Corrigan said he believes White At Tulane, White put his dis­out with a $350,000 buyout of


White 

Boston College wanted White. and DeFilippo are two of the sertation in action at a southern the $1 million remaining on his But White had been at Arizona most talented athletic directors school struggling to keep up with contract.
continued from page 1 

State just a year, and he didn't in Division I -and that they are the still-controversial Title IX As White sought a full-time Tulane, White was pressed about want to jump ship so early. Just still friends. rules. coach, he wound up associated previous offers for his services. two months earlier, White with­But since White served as a In a column on the day White. with an unusual departure of the 
"I don't want to get into that," drew his name from Virginia consultant for Boston College, announced he would accept the coach of one of the Big East's White told the reporter. "Leave it Tech's search for a new athletic his relationship with the school Arizona State job, Dave Lagarde most storied basketball teams. at a handful." director -another one in which has changed at least somewhat of the (New Orleans) Times­White was connected with the 
A decade later, White still shies White appeared to be the main as other troubles between the Picayune highlighted White's unexpected resignation of Fran away from claiming success as target. He was happy with the two schools emerged. role in increasing the Green Fraschilla at St. John's in New an administrator and boasting Sun Devils and told Boston In 2002, some Boston College Wave's athletic department York City in March of 1998. The about how badly schools wanted College he would gladly serve as players celebrated their 14-7 vic­budget and the transition to New York Times reported that to hire him. a consultant in its search. tory of the then-unbeaten Irish Conference USA. But he started Fraschilla used his contacts with 
'Tm a displaced New Yorker Yet Boston College kept hoping at Notre Dame Stadium by tear­with the progress he brought to White -in the search for a new . . . that has been very, very fortu­White would change his mind. ing up grass and causing dam­female sports . basketball coach at Arizona nate," White said in an interview In an interview with the age to the visiting locker room. "White's accomplishments in State -to force St. John's into with The Observer. "I have been Boston Globe published Aug. 14 A year later, Boston College his five-year stay at Tulane were giving him a high-paying con­surrounded by great administra­that year, White was succinct. backed off its initial condemna­many," he said. "He brought the tract extension. Some reports tors, great coaches and a won­''I'm not a candidate," he said. tions of Miami and Virginia Tech Green Wave's women's athletic said Fraschilla claimed White derful, highly talented group of Two weeks later, the Globe for bolting the Big East for the programs up to speed with the offered him the ASU job, but, student athletes at every institu­reported White had made the ACC and followed the Hurricanes complicated and controversial through a spokesman, White tion. ... It came together at dif­"short list," despite his public and Hokies to the conference. Title IX." denied offering anyone but even­ferent places and at different statements that he was not inter­Notre Dame joined the Big East White had a successful five tual coach Rob Evans the job ­times." ested in the job. White insisted for most sports in 1995. years at Tulane, where he a philosophy adopted by White, 
When he was at Tulane and he was merely a consultant for Since then, White has said the rebuilt and reorganized an ath­that only the acceptor even gets badgered about his rising stock, Boston College and had no aspi­football rivalry between the two letic department that had been the chance to say "yes." White might have wanted to rations to take the job at the schools could end after 2010 mired in scandal in the 1980s. "Kevin did discuss the job with "leave it at that," but top univer­time. because Notre Dame agreed to He did that, and improved nearly Fran," Arizona State sports sities didn't. Two weeks after that, Boston play three Big East teams a year, every sport at the school, on an information director Doug 
College President Father William and the Eagles wouldn't fit operating budget about one­Tammaro told the Times. Alrting with Boston College P. Leahy received a letter from because of the other longstand­third of the size of Notre Dame's "[Fraschilla] was not offered the 
Boston College Athletic White asking that his name final­ing Irish series. current yearly expenditures on job." . Director Chet Gladchuk left ly be withdrawn from considera­Boston College officials told the football alone. The St. John's job eventually Chestnut Hill for Houston on July tion for the open position. In the Globe that Notre Dame was went to Mike Jarvis, who told the 17, 1997, after the program letter, White recommended two refusing to play the Eagles, Quelling crises Washington Post he talked to found itself at the center of a people -San Francisco Athletic though Associate Athletic In April and May 1998, White White about the Arizona State betting scandal. Director Bill Hogan and Director John Heisler reiterated faced what may have been his position but never had an inter­
Boston College wanted a fresh DeFilippo, the latter who was to the Associated Press that the toughest challenge before com­view. start with someone who had later hired by the Eagles. scheduling issue and commit­ing to Notre Dame. With the way he handled the experience cleaning up messes Since coming to Notre Dame, ments with the Big East are the Before he was the athletic situation -and the image he but could also provide sound White's name rarely has come reason for the series' discontinu­director at Arizona State, White earned as someone who could leadership for the coming years. up in articles as either a candi­ation. held the same position at Tulane clean up programs mired in Veterans in the Chestnut Hill date or a consultant for job for five school years (1991-96). scandal -White's stock was on athletic department contacted openings. White's journey When White arrived there, the the rise. Two years later, as Gene Corrigan, who had recently "In certain settings, some White graduated from St. men's basketball program was Notre Dame's athletic depart­stepped down as NCAA presi­things become more public than Joseph's College (Rensselaer, just re-starting after four years ment was reeling in the wake of dent after serving as commis­in other settings," White said in Ind.) with a bachelor's degree in without a squad as the result of an age discrimination lawsuit sioner of the Atlantic Coast an interview with The Observer. business administration in 1972. a points-shaving scandal in and a booster scandal, Conference and, before that, as "Here, I've worked very hard, so He earned his Master's degree in 1985. University President Emeritus Notre Dame's athletic director to speak, not to abuse the plat­athletics administration from But a new scandal emerged at Father Edward Malloy hired from 1981 through 1987. Boston form. But I'm deeply involved in Central Michigan in 1976 and his Arizona State. White to reinvigorate and College hired Corrigan as a "con­a zillion things. People have been Ph.D. from Southern Illinois in In the summer of 1997. the restore the tradition-filled sultant," and he offered his take very kind to me, very generous, 1983. His dissertation, "An FBI began investigating a points­school. of who were the best-qualified and they invite me into those Appraisal of the Women's shaving scheme allegedly tied to people for the job. conversations all the time. I'm Intercollegiate Athletic two Arizona State ylayers. Now The third part of this series 
Kevin White was on top, not any less involved than I was Programs, and the Relationship on thin ice, Sun Devils coach Bill will run Tuesday and look at according to the Boston Globe. at Arizona State. I'm probably to Men's Athletics at the Big Ten Frieder vigorously defended the Kevin White's tenure at Notre The other two names in the mix more involved. I just hope my Conference Institutions Before program against the illegal gam­Dame. were Marquette Athletic Director involvement sometimes isn't and After Title IX bling charges. But early that Bill Cords and Northwestern quite so public." Implementation," followed four September, two other players Contact Ken Fowler at Athletic Director Rick Taylor. In a telephone interview with years of postgraduate studies at were accused of theft in a dormi-kfowler1@nd.edu 

Jobs 
continued from page 1 
ating from the University of Oregon with a major in philoso­phy. 
"I just wanted jobs that were low commitment and gave me lots of free time, so I bussed tables and I baked bagels,. and then I worked for a research and development firm," Ramsey said. 
So for eight months, Ramsey worked as the expediter at a com­pany building a laser as part of Ronald Reagan's Star Wars pro­gram during the Cold War. 
"It's a crazy job," Ramsey said. "But it just shows you how a phi­losophy major can kind of wind up doing things you would never expect." 
Although he was looking for­ward to being laid-off after the laser was finished so he could travel and climb, Ramsey was sur­prised when the company asked him to stay on as an engineer ­even after his boss and other members of the company had been fired. 
But since the laser "[didn't] do anything except discolor some tis­sue paper," Ramsey decided it was time to move on. 
While Ramsey spent time work­ing low-commitment jobs after graduation, he believes his philos­ophy degree would have made him a qualified candidate for a professional career after gradua­tion if that was what he had want­ed to do. 

"The thing that was holding me back was I didn't want to go the serious career route just then," he said. "If I decided that I really wanted to go into business or something like that, I wouldn't have had any real problem." 
English professor and published author Valerie Sayers taught eco­nomics at a new technical college -even though she graduated from Fordham with a degree in psychology. The technical college "desperately needed somebody to teach social science courses," Sayers said, explaining why she was hired with just a bachelor's degree. 
"They asked me if I could teach economics and I said 'sure,"' Sayers said. "I just read the text­book as fast as I could." 
Originally, Sayers had planned to go to graduate school to become a clinical psychologist, but plans changed when she realized toward the end of her college career that she wanted to be a writer. 
"I took a year of my life [after undergraduate school] to decide whether I could be a writer and take a kind of minimal earning and write every day," she said. This was when she moved back to her home town and took the teaching job. 
Although Sayers considered this a sort of "test year," she was anx­ious as to how things would turn out. 
"I was terrified. I was scared to death because my original plan had been very professional," she said. "To be a psychologist was a clear path ... but to be a writer seemed to have no path whatsoev­er. It was as if I had to hack out my own path." 
Unlike Ramsey and Sayers, music professor Alexander Blachly knew that he wanted to attend graduate school right after graduating from Haverford College with a B.A. in music and a concentration in composition. 
Blachly went straight to Columbia, where he received a Master's degree in historical musi­cology in 1972 and then a Ph.D. in 1995 with the intention of being "an academic." Blachly, however, also founded the professional singing ensemble Pomerium in New York, which he still directs. 
"My career path has not been typical. ... I had always had a dual career, even as a graduate stu­dent, as a performer and as an academic," he said. For Blachly, having two careers makes his situ­ation "a little unusual." 
Performance was not something Blachly expected to pursue when he was an undergraduate. He said he thought that performing would be a "sideline" to a career in academia. 
Since he had already been accepted to Columbia's graduate program at the time he graduated from Haverford, Blachly said he did not face much anxiety over what the years following his grad­uation would bring. 
"That part of my future -those immediate next few years -was already mapped out for me," he said. "I only applied to one gradu­ate school. My feeling was that I wanted to go there, and if I didn't go there, I would do something else. That's also not very common and probably not very sensible looking back on it, but that's what I did." 
Department of Film, Television and Theater assistant professor Christine Becker never planned to become a professor when she went to gradu­ate school after appointment [to a job]," he said. 
Sayers noted that the lower cost of living -something that gradu­ating seniors today do not have ­also helped her to turn her goal of being a writer into a reality. 
To Blachly, choosing a career path that could be more financial­ly promising may not be the most beneficial. 
"Ifyou go into something just for 
the money, I 
think that's ulti­
she finished her undergraduate  "To be a psychologist  mately going to lead to discon­ 
education at University of Illinois-Urbana­Champaign with a humani­ was a clear path ... but to be a writer seemed to have no path whatsoever. It was as ifI had to hack  tent," he said. "I think you should do the things that you find fulfilling,  
ties Film  degree. was a  out my own path. ,  and trust that things will work  
humanities  out."  
option  at  the  Valerie Sayers  For Ramsey,  
university, and when Becker  English professor  trusting that things will work  
chose  it,  she  out may require  
said she "didn't  that students be  

really have a career in mind," but willing to learn new things as they knew that film was something that build their careers. He said his she "really loved." experience working on the laser 
While Becker's immediate fami­serves as an example that in the ly and friends were supportive of professional world, employees her decision to pursue her love of must figure things out as they go, film, she recalled her aunt telling especially since most employers her that her major was a "waste know that they will have to train of brains." their new hires anyway. 
Blachly-who said that his par­"[Employers] are looking for ents also supported his decision to people with the right kind of raw pursue music through graduate materials, and that's exactly what school -said that "luck" played a a liberal arts degree gives you," role in his career path. Ramsey said. 
"There is always an element of luck and the sort of good fortune Contact Emma Driscoll at that is involved in getting an . edriscol@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Monday, April 30, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVlCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
China fails to improve human rights 
BEIJING -China has failed to live up to promises to improve human rights for the 2008 Olympics in Beijing despite reforms to the death penalty system and more freedoms for foreign reporters, Amnesty International said in a report Monday. 
The report catalogs a wide range of persistent abuses, from extensive use of detention without trial to the persecution of civil rights activists and new methods to rein in the domestic media and censor the Internet. 
The London-based group welcomed the new rules for foreign journalist and the referral of all death sentences to China's Supreme Court since the start of the year. 
"Disappointingly, they have been matched by moves to expand detention without trial and house arrest of activists, and by a tightening of controls over domestic media and the Internet," Catherine Baber, deputy Asia-Pacific director of Amnesty International, said in a statement. 
Iran to attend conference on Iraq 
BAGHDAD -Iran agreed Sunday to join the 
U.S. and other countries at a conference on Iraq this week, raising hopes the government in Tehran would help stabilize its violent neighbor and stem the flow of guns and bombs over the border. 
In an apparent effort to drive home that point, Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki told an Iranian envoy that the persistent violence in Iraq ­some of it carried out by the Shiite militias Iran is accused of arming -could spill over into neighboring countries, including those that are "supposed to support the Iraqi government." 
Iraq's other neighbors as well as Egypt, Bahrain and representatives of the five pernla­nent U.N. Security Council members have agreed to attend the meeting Thursday. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
3 dead, 2 wounded in mall shooting 
KANSAS CITY, Mo -A shooting at a shop­ping center Sunday afternoon left three peo­ple dead, including the gunman, police said. 
Two people were shot about 3:30p.m. in the parking lot of the Ward Parkway Center, according to police. Then, the gun­man went inside the mall and fired more shots, wounding at least two people, police spokesman Tony Sanders said. 
The man was shot to death inside the mall, Sanders said. Police fired shots, but it was not immediately clear if he was killed by police. 

Highway bridge collapses after crash 
OAKLAND, Calif. -A stretch of highway near the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge collapsed Sunday after a gasoline tanker crashed and burst into flames, leaving one of the nation's busiest spans in a state of near paralysis. Officials said traffic could be dis­rupted for months. 
Flames shot 200 feet in the air and the heat was intense enough to melt part of the freeway and cause the collapse, but the truck's driver walked away from the scene with second-degree burns. No other injuries were reported. 
"I've never seen anything like it," Officer Trent Cross of the California Highway Patrol said of the crumpled interchange. ''I'm look­ing at this thinking, 'Wow, no one died ­that's amazing. It's just very fortunate." 
LOCAL NEWS 

Slot machines could provide tax relief 
INDIANAPOUS -Lawmakers appeared clos­er to a deal Sunday to allow slot machines at Indiana's two horse racing tracks -a move that would funnel more than $500 million toward property tax relieffor homeowners. 
It would be Indiana's biggest expansion of gambling since the Legislature authorized river­boat casinos in 1993, but lawmakers were work­ing on another bill to crack down on illegal gam­bling elsewhere. That proposal would step up enforcement against illegal video gambling machines sometimes found in back rooms of bars, gas stations, truck stops and other loca­tions. 
TURKEY 


Demonstrators demand resignation 
700,000 march against pro-Islamic government, call prime minister a 'traitor' 
Associated Press 

ISTANBUL -At least 700,000 people marched Sunday in a massive protest against the possi­ble election of an obser­vant Muslim as president, a conflict that is pitting Turkey's religiously orient­ed ruling party against the deeply secular military and civilian establishment. 
Waving the country's red flag and singing national­ist songs, demonstrators in Istanbul demanded the resignation of the pro­Islamic government, call­ing Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan a traitor. Erdogan's foreign minis­ter, Abdullah Gul, is wide­ly expected to win the presidential election by the country's 550-seat parliament. 
"We don't want a cov­ered woman in Ataturk's presidential palace,::' pro­tester Ayse Bari, a 67­
· year-old housewife, said in reference to Gul's wife Hayrunisaah who wears the Muslim headscarf. "We want civilized, modern people there." The election has reignit­ed a conflict over Turkey's national identity that has brewed since Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, an army officer in World War I, tion of state and religion. traveled to Istanbul from tion law.makers boycotted founded the secular For example, secularists across the country the vote. The opposition republic after the collapse want to preserve a ban on overnight. then appealed to the of the Ottoman Empire. He Islamic headscarves in Turkish police estimated Constitutional Court to gave the vote to women, government offices and their numbers at about annul the result on restricted Islamic dress other public places; Gul's 700,000 and cordoned off grounds that there was and replaced the Arabic wife once appealed to the the protest area, conduct­not a quorum present at script with the Roman European Court of Human ing searches at several the time of the vote. That alphabet. Rights for the right to entry points. night, the military threat­But Islam remained wear the scarf to a univer­More than 300,000 took ened to intervene in the potent at the grassroots sity. part in a similar rally in election and warned the level, and some leaders The military hinted it the capital Ankara two government to curb with a religious back­may step in to resolve the weeks ago. Islamic influences. ground have portrayed deadlock over Gul in par­"This government is the "It should not be forgot­themselves as an alterna­liament. And many Turks enemy of Ataturk," said ten that the Turkish tive to the secular estab­are calling for early elec­63-year-old Ahmet armed forces is one of the lishment. tions in the hope of replac­Yurdakul, a retired gov­sides in this debate and Many, including power­ing the parliament, which ernment employee among the absolute defender of ful generals, fear Gul is dominated by Gul's pro­the demonstrators on secularism," the military would use the presidency Islamic ruling party. Sunday. "It wants to drag said in a statement. -a post with veto power "Turkey is secular and Turkey to the dark ages." "When necessary, they will over legislation -to assist will remain secular!" On Friday, Gul failed to display its stance and atti­his ally, Erdogan, in chip­shouted thousands of pro­win a first round of voting tudes very clearly. No one ping away at the separa-testers, many of whom in parliament after opposi-should doubt that." 



Rice warns against challenging Bush 
saying Bush would not agree to a heads a House subcommittee that
Associated Press 

plan that penalizes the Baghdad for controls defense spending. "We're 
WASHINGTON -President Bush insufficient progress. saying to them, 'Well, let's put some will not sign any war spending bill "To begin now to tie our own teeth into the benchmarks."' that penalizes Iraq's government for hands -and to say 'We must do this Even if they agree to scrap a troop failing to make progress, Secretary if they don't do that' -doesn't allow withdrawal timetable, Democratic of State Condoleezza Rice said us the flexibility and creativity that lawmakers say they want to link U.S. Sunday, a fresh warning to Congress we need to move this forward," Rice support to Iraq's performance in about challenging him. said. some way. But they must find an 
Bush is expected to veto a bill this Democratic lawmakers, eager to approach that win Republican sup­week that would order U.S. troops to wind the war down, showed little port to pass a new bill that Bush is begin withdrawil\g from Iraq by Oct. appetite for establishing goals with­willing to sign. 
1. Lacking the votes to override a out consequences. Iraq has struggled Bush is expected the veto the war veto, the Democratic-led Congress is to keep its own promises for distrib­bill by Tuesday, then meet considering a revised plan to pay for uting oil wealth, refining its constitu­Wednesday with congressional lead­the way while requiring Iraq to meet tion and expanding democratic par­ers on the next steps. The current benchmarks for progress. ticipation. legislation would provide $124.2 bil­
Congress has not decided whether "The benchmarks -the Iraqis lion, more than $90 billion of which to punish Iraq for falling short. Rice agreed to it, the president agreed it," would go for the wars in Iraq and sent lawmakers a clear message, said Rep. John Murtha, D-Pa., who Afghanistan. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 30, 2007 
NDASK 
continued from page 1 
for these experts. 
"They were all glad to have a chance to meet up," Laidman said. "The speakers seemed to learn a lot from each other and students had the chance to get more expert­ise and to get a framework togeth­er for next year." 
Getting these different actors together is an important step, she said. 
"In order to be successful, we need to integrate as one solid group of people with different beliefs and messages," Laidman said. 

That integration is already tak­ing place, Laidman said, citing the varying backgrounds of the forum's speakers. Some stand against the death penalty based on beliefS in criminal justice, she said, while others take a religious stance against state executions. 
This weekend's events included a screening of"The Exonerated" and a keynote address by Paula Sites, assistant executive director of the Indiana Public Defender Council. NDASK also held panel sessions entitled "The American Bar Association & Indiana: Moving toward a Moratorium," "Prison Ministry: Building Relationships with Death Row Inmates" and "Mental Illness and the Death Penalty: Arbitrary, Capricious and 
Native Atnericans hit hardby tneth addiction 
Associated Press 
WIND RIVER INDIAN RESER­VATION, Wyo -Just off the deserted highways, the silver pickup truck eases down quiet streets, its driver offering a numbing tour of a remote reser­vation framed by the beauty of snowcapped mountains. 
There, Leon Tillman says, over there -the house on the right, a white, two-story building set off by itself. It used to be a big drug house. Now it's shut­tered, its owners in prison. 
A man dressed in an army green shirt and pants appears on the side of the road, his thumb up, looking for a ride. "That's a meth head," Tillman says. "He's bumming right now." 
A few more drug houses and Tillman's tour of the despair of methamphetamine ends. 
Not long ago, most people here had never even heard of meth. But today, most know someone on meth or in prison because of it. Tillman, 39, knows too many to count. 
"It''s everywhere," he said. 
Indeed, American Indians have been especially hard hit by meth. Drug cartels have target­ed Indian Country because the people are vulnerable, and law enforcement struggles to keep up.

' 
I But the story of how meth
I 
:-came to this remote reservation
•
• is really quite remarkable.
I 
I Like a cancer, a Mexican drug gang permeated the reservation and its families. It left behind a landscape strewn with broken lives. Some 12,000 Indians -mem­bers of the Northern Arapaho and the Eastern Shoshone tribes -live on 2.2 million acres, an area so vast many homes are separated by miles of barren land. Poverty and unemployment are high, alcoholism is rampant and the police department is so understaffed -patrolling such a large area -that the average response time is 15 to 20 min­utes. Jesus Martin Sagaste-Cruz knew that. And he knew the reservation's isolation would be perfect for his business. Authorities learned of the Sagaste-Cruz drug ring back in 1997. Sagaste-Cruz and his Mexican gang had already been selling around Indian reserva­tions in South Dakota and Nebraska. But it was an article in The Denver Post that changed the way they did business. The story talked about how a Nebraska liquor store near the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota did 
millions of dollars in business. Sales were especially high immediately after Indians received their per capita checks -their share of their tribe's income. 
Sagaste-Cruz figured if there were already so many Indians addicted to alcohol, it would be easy enough to addict them to methamphetamine. 
So around 2000, the Mexicans moved in and near Wind River Reservation. 
"They came to a place where people don't have anything," said Frances Monroe, who works in the Northern Arapaho Child Protection Services office. 
They started with free meth samples. The men pursued Indian women, providing them with meth even as they romanced them and fathered their children. Eventually, the women needed to support their habit, so they became dealers, too-and they used free sam­ples to recruit new customers. 
It was all part of the plan. 
For the next four years, the gang sold pounds and pounds of meth, much of it 98 percent pure. The drugs came from Mexico, then on to Los Angeles; Ogden, Utah (where Sagaste­Cruz lived); and finally Wyoming, where gang members had a handful of local distribu­tors, each with their own cus­tomer base. 
Customers became dealers and recruiters, and their cus­tomers did the same. 
Before, meth was barely men­tioned on the reservation. Police reported only sporadic arrests. 
But now the reservation was saturated with it. Crime soared; From 2003 to 2006, cases of child neglect increased 131 per­cent. Drug possession was up 163 percent; spousal abuse rose 218 percent. 
The Wind River reservation is not alone. The Bureau of Indian Affairs found that methamphet­amine was listed as the greatest threat to Indian communities by police departments. 
Mexican drug cartels take advantage of the often compli­cated law enforcement jurisdic­tions in Indian Country. Isolated communities are hit the hardest, and sometimes even tribal lead­ers are not immune, said Heather Dawn Thompson, director of government affairs for the National Congress of American Indians. 
Here on the Wind River, a trib­al judge, Lynda Munnell-Noah, was arrested in a 2005 drug ring bust and accused of trying to assault and murder a Bureau of Indian Affairs law enforce­ment officer. 
Inhumane." Saturday in remembrance of Juan 
There was also an art show with Placencia, the victim of Woods' works created by death row pris­crime. Woods was convicted of oners, including five pieces of art stabbing his 77 -year-old neighbor from an Indiana death row inmate to death in 1984 in Garrett, Ind. with whom Laidman and NDASK Death row inmates in Indiana, co-director Will McAuliffe-who is including Woods, have argued a columnist for The Observer -against the use .of lethal injection. meet with on a regular basis. Laidman said there have been 
"It's important to consider that problems associated with using these [prisoners] are everyday peo­this method of execution, which ple with their own beliefs and tal­she said can constitute cruel and ents," Laidman said. unusual punishment when inmates 
She said the weekend's events are not fully sedated before execu­were especially important because tion. they allowed the club to "capitalize NDA.SK has created an online on everything that's happened," petition available through its blog, referring to the Indiana execution ndask.blogspot.com, asking of David Woods scheduled for Indiana Gov. Mitch Daniels to grant Friday at 12 a.m. Woods clemency. As of Sunday 
NDASK held a vigil at the Grotto night, the petition had 465 signa-
Donations 
continued from page 1 
2004 campaigns, and 20 have already donated for 2008, including 16 who are financially supporting Barack Obama's candidacy. 
Notre Dame clearly lags behind competing universities in providing monetary support to candidates, but this lack of faculty contributions to campaigns is not a sign of political apathy on campus, College Republicans president Sarah Way said. 
"I believe if you were to look up the contributions that were not financial, you would see a number of professors who actually worked for campaigns," she said. 
The five Notre Dame professors that did write checks in 2004 did not lack political fervor either. 
Philosophy professor Michael DetlefSen, one of four faculty mem­bers who donated to John Kerry's campaign in 2004, was emphatic about hi<> reasons for donating. He said he believed President George W Bush is "incompetent and cor­rupt" and "easily the worst presi­dent in my voting lifetime," and said he has been "reckless with the lives 
HISTORY & THEORY 

and welfare of both many Americans and many Iraqis." 
Detlefsen, however, said he had not decided yet if he would lend his financial support to a candidate in 2008. 
"I may support a candidate in the next election, but I don't know yet whether I will," he said. "If I do, it will be someone I think is of high moral character, who will seek peace rather than war, and who will make meaningful efforts towards addressing the mounting crisis in health care in America." 
Detlefsen said he thinks it is too early to support a candidate at this point in the election cycle, but that he will not necessarily wait until the general election kicks off to donate to a campaign. 
English professor Stephan Fredman, who also donated to Kerry's campaign in 2004, said he believes that it is his civic duty to be active in politics and that he will donate to somebody in 2008. 
"I don't yet have a favored presi­dential candidate, though, so I will wait to donate until I find one ­which may be either before or after the primary election," Fredman said. 
Way said she was not surprised by the professors' support of the 
PERFORMANCE 

tures out ofits target 500. 
The club is taking bus reserva­tions for a planned execution vigil Thursday at the Michigan City prison. 
Daniels has not yet announced whether he will reject Woods' application for clemency. 
NDASK hopes to continue its education about the death penalty in the coming years, Laidman said, and has "incredible people lined up to come [next year]." 
Students will continue to build a network and lobby for their desired moratorium with Daniels and leaders from their political dis­tricts, Laidman said. 
Contact Jenn Mez at jmetz@nd.edu 
Kerry ticket. 
"Notre Dame may have a general reputation as being conservative, but I am not sure this represents both the faculty and the students," she said. 
The fifth professor that made a campaign donation in 2004 to sup­port Bush's reelection bid, Patrick Schlitz, is no longer associated with the University. 
Generally, the number of faculty members at rural colleges who donate to political campaigns ­even at the local level -pales in comparison with those who donate at universities located in larger met­ropolitan areas, according to the FEC Web site. 
It's important faculty members stay uninvolved with political financ­ing, Way said, since their primary job is to teach students. 
"I am not surprised, nor con­cerned, with Notre Dame profes­sors' lack of donations to cam­paigns," she said. "In fact, this sepa­ration from 'party politics' is a very good thing." 
Impartial professors make it easi­er for students to develop their own political opinions, she said. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 
MUSIC & CULTURE 



Bite Into ND MUSIC! 
Excellent Double Major  Three Distinctive Concentrations  
Honors Degree Available  Colleagues for LiJe  
Be partof the NO Arts Renaissance  Accessable Faculty  

Hungry for more information? Visit MUSIC.ND.EDU 
Monday, April 30, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 


13,120.94 +15.44
jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I ,38~ 160 I ,81 S 2,757,310,313 

NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  +0.04  +0.02  46.57  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.00  -0.22  21.87  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +0.19  +0.01  5.26  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +3.51  + 1.02  30.12  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  -0.08  -0.12  149.53  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.30  +0.014  4.698  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.10  -0.005  4.795  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.35  +0.017  4.885  
5-YEARNOTE  +0.15  +0.007  4.592  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +1.40  66.46  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +3.80  681.80  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -2.20  100.95  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  119.5000  
EURO  0.7319  
POUND  0.5005  
CANADIAN$  1.1160  

IN BRIEF 
Microsoft third quarter profits rise 
SEATTLE -Microsoft Corp.'s fiscal third­quarter profit jumped 65 percent, buoyed by sales of its new versions of Windows and Office and by upgrade coupons for the operat­ing system issued over the holidays. 
Earnings for the quarter ended March 31 rose to $4.93 billion, or 50 cents per share, from $2.98 billion, or 29 cents per share in same period last year. 
Results included legal charges amounting to 1 cent per share, but tax benefits boosted profit by 2 cents per share. 
Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial forecast a profit of 46 cents per share. 
Revenue for the quarter rose 32 percent to $14.4 billion. Wall Street was looking for $13.89 billion in sales. 
Microsoft started selling its newest operating system, Windows Vista, to consumers at the end of January. Its "client" division, responsi­ble for Windows, brought in $5.27 billion in sales, 67 percent higher than a year ago. 

Farmers experiment with biodiesel 
LOS ANGELES -California farmers are hoping to strike oil -vegetable oil, that is -with a series of experimental trials involving crops that can be processed into biodiesel. 
Some of the efforts to produce the sought-after fuel call for growing hearty crops such as canola on unproductive land that can't support higher­value produce. 
Other farmers are eyeing oilseed plants as a cover crop that might improve soil quality between more profitable plantings of berries or leafy greens. 
Researchers have even started experimenting with varieties of algae that can be farmed in ponds and converted into biodiesel. 
"We have one of the world's most fertile and pro­ductive growing regions," said Salinas Mayor Dennis Donohue, a radicchio farmer. "It doesn't make any sense that we shouldn't be involved in the future that's shaping up." 
The trials are being conducted as high gas prices and stringent environmental regulations drive the market for alternative energy sources such as biodiesel. Derived from vegetable oils and other sources, the fuel is used to run diesel engines that have undergone slight modifications. 




THE 0HSERVER 







USINESS 
page 7 
Organic baby food market grows 
Concerned parents accountfor increase in sales, prompt companies to expand offerings 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Pauline Ameli-Nash worried that the pesticides and additives used to grow and preserve food were bad for her 1­year-old daughter Sophia, not to mention the earth itself. That's why the pureed carrots, sweet potatoes and fruits Sophia ate were pur­chased from makers of organic baby food. 
"She is so small I just thought that the more pure, honest things she ate would be better for her," the Claremont, Calif., mother said. "I also thought it bene­fits the environment. I want to raise my child with an idea of social responsibility." 
The environment has become a very hot topic these days, especially among parents who want to protect their children's health and the world they'll be inheriting. Parents like Ameli-Nash are propelling a surge in organic baby food sales, and that has prompt­ed more companies to either join or expand their offer­ings in the sector. 

Organic food still accounts for a tiny portion of the overall baby food market, but it is definitely growing. Whole Foods Market Inc. said it has tripled the space allotted to organic baby Organic baby food sales juice and food for toddlers. organic baby food from a products in the last five soared 21.6 percent to $116 The change was meant to brand they trusted. She years. Last year, baby food million in the 52 weeks make it more evident that declined to give the brand's institution Gerber Products ended Feb. 24, after jump­the food was organic, said sales. Co. rebranded and broad­ing 16.4 percent a year ear­Anna Mohl, vice president of Big companies aren't the ened its organic line, while lier, according to The marketing-infant nutrition only ones addressing the Abbott Laboratories intro­Nielsen Company. at the baby food maker demand for organic baby duced an organic version of Meanwhile, overall baby owned by Novartis AG and products. Two years ago, its Similac baby formula. food sales rose 3.1 percent now being sold to Nestle SA. Gigi Lee Chang started Plum 
The U.S. Department of to $3.7 billion in the same "We needed to be more Organics, a line of frozen Agriculture inspects food period, after being essential­explicit," Mohl said. While baby foods, now a very hot producers to insure they ly flat a year earlier. The Tender Harvest, which was area, according to Whole meet its standards for data was gleaned from U.S. introduced in 1997, was Foods officials. organic products. They grocery, drug and mass selling well, its growth was­Lee Chang got the idea to include banning the use of market retailers, excluding n't matching the overall start the company when she conventional pesticides, fer­Wal-Mart. organic baby food category, heard friends talking about tilizers made with synthetic Gerber Products replaced she said. her son's healthy appetite. ingredients or sewage its Tender Harvest brand Mohl said Gerber didn't She decided that the organic sludge for produce, and last year with a line called consider leaving the catego­foods she had been prepar­antibiotics or gro~th hor­Gerber Organics and added ry because she believed ing for him might be a good mones for animals. products such as cereals, moms wanted to purchase business opportunity. 


Mutuals shy away from global warming 
Associated Press as a separate category from gover­vote drew support from 17 percent of 
nance resolutions. On the social and shareholders, the study found. In 
NEW YORK -Investors pressing environmental side they tend to show some instances, the "yes" votes were companies to say more about the pos­more deference to management's much higher; at home builder sible financial effects of global warm­actions and policies than they do on Standard Pacific Corp., 39 percent of ing haven't found an ally in large the governance side," said Doug shareholders voted for added disclo­mutual funds. Cogan, director of climate change sures. 
While global climate change research at ISS, a proxy adviser. Ceres spokesman Peyton Flemming appears to be drawing more attention Cogan contends U.S. companies said at companies such as Alliant in the United States from lawmakers operating overseas and even those Energy Corp. and Great Plains Energy and businesses, no large mutual fund only in business domestically face Inc., shareholders last year withdrew companies voted in 2006 to support increasing environmental regulation, resolutions after the companies shareholder resolutions seeking such as caps on greenhouse gas emis­agreed to disclose their potential added disclosures about the possible sions. Such changes could increase financial exposure to climate change. fmancial effects of global warming. costs for power companies and Cogan said about half of such share­
The 28 investment houses that run automakers, for example. On the holder resolutions are typically with­the country's 100 largest mutual other hand, warmer weather could drawn before they come to a vote funds either abstained from or extend growing seasons for agricul­because companies agree to provide opposed the handful of resolutions tural companies. data investors are seeking, Cogan that reached a vote last year, accord­"It's truly a business issue that will said. ing to data compiled by Institutional have financial impacts," he said. Large mutual fund companies typi­Shareholder Services for Ceres, a The study found investors filed 30 cally don't wade into environmental Boston-based environmental invest­climate-related resolutions last year issues. It appears many would consid­ment group. and that seven of those proceeded to er it, however, if it they determined 
"Most mutual funds tend to wall off shareholder votes. such concerns would have a sizable 
social and environmental resolutions On average, the resolutions put to a effect on a company's business. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, April 30, 2007 
THE OBSERVER Damage control 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Ken Fowler Jinn Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey 
Chris Hine 
SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CONTROllER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHI£F 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(57 4) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS 0FACE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574} 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

oBsERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students ofthe 
University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Eclitor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe 
Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding ObsfTVerpolicies should be directedto Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Thr Observer (USPS 599 24000) is publish~ Monday rhmugh Friday cxapr during exam :md vacation. _fK'riods. A s~~ptiotl tQ The Ob&crvc;r is $100 for one. at;:ademic year; $55 for one S(:rnruer. 
The Observer is published ac POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send addres:l oom:aion.s to: 
Notre Dame. IN 4655.6--0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid ar NQue Damc; P.o.Bo)[m 
and J.dditional m;ailing offio:s. 024 Sourh Dining H.!l 
Norre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is: a member of the ksodatcd Pr~. .All rcproducdon rights are -resc:rved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Kaitlynn Riely Dan Murphy Jenn Metz Michael Bryan Viewpoint Dan Maloof 
Lianna Scene Brauweiler Brian Doxtader Graphics Madeline Nies 
The Bush administration and its cronies have directed a huge portion of their resources toward damage control. The problem is: they're about 6,000 miles off target with their efforts. Instead of focusing on protecting the millions of troops and civilians in Baghdad and other areas of Iraq against lEOs, they've chosen to defend themselves and their policies against verbal attacks and calls for resignation. As the scope of long-overdue oversight investigations expands, so too does our knowledge of the actions that the White House has taken, or has failed to take, these past seven years. Instead of provid­ing sufficient explanations or holding the appropriate people accountable for failures and missteps, however, this administration and its compatri­ots have chosen to stonewall, finally succumbing only to the almighty sub­poena. Even this, however, has proven at times to be a futile exer­cise in accountability. 
The amount of things that Attorney General Alberto Gonzales can recall could seemingly be counted on one hand. His testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee was an absolute joke, racking up over 70 answers of "I don't know" or "I don't recall" by the end, despite the appro­priate focus of the questions. His inability to recall crucial facts about his role in firing eight U.S. Attorneys was ludicrous and, as has been stat­ed by many pundits, either reflects his refusal to share facts or simply an inability and altogether lack of diligence in carrying out his duties. President Bush's response to Gonzales' absurd lack of integrity, 

Will 
McAullife 
Strategery Analyst 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

capability and testimony: "The attor­ney general gave a very candid assessment ... in a way that increased my confidence in his ability to do the job." 
So, just to be clear on this: Attorney General Gonzales took an entire month preparing for this testi­mony and, in effect, didn't testify to much else beyond his incompetence. As a result, President Bush has increased confidence in him. Got it? Moving on. 
Paul Wolfowitz, the former Deputy Secretary of Defense who was previ­ously best known for his hawkish consistency in calling for attacks on Iraq well before 9/11, was installed as President of the World Bank in January of 2005. However, Wolfowitz's romantic interest, Shaha Ali Riza, was already working for the World Bank, creating a conflict of interest for Wolfowitz. Taking a page from the book of cronyism as written by President Bush and Vice President Cheney, Wolfowitz decided that the appropriate action would be to facili­tate a transfer of Ms. Riza to the State Department where she would work under Elizabeth Cheney, daugh­ter of Dick Cheney. As a notable perk, Ms. Riza received an enormous pay raise, ultimately earning a salary higher than Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice. 
Like Gonzales, Wolfowitz has ignored resounding calls for his res­ignation, choosing instead to leave it up to the President or an official vote. It seems like these guys just don't know when they've lost. 
These two cases, however, are sim­ply symptomatic of the overt nepo­tism and sheer hubris of the Bush administration. In a villainous stroke, allegiances to the American people, the Constitution and fundamental notions of human rights and dignity have been replaced by allegiance to the President. The extensive politi­cization of law enforcement shown in the Federal Attorney firings, the dis­respect for transparency and accountability demonstrated by the "loss" of about five million e-mails between top government officials, and .the failure of the administration to take responsibility for their negli­gent actions, all point towards a bla­tant disregard for public service and ultimately a dismissal of the American constituency as being rele­vant to the country's direction. Time after time we are being sold this notion that we're not capable of determining what's best for our country, and that our sense of history is askew. President Bush has said time and time again that he only cares how he is judged by history, but fails to acknowledge that this Machiavellian take on leadership is definitively ignorant of the popula­tion that he was elected to serve. 
Accountability has gone missing along with Habeus Corpus and the Geneva Conventions these past sever­al years, but the newly-elected, Democratic-majority Congress is at long last trying to make it right. With 61 percent of Americans disapprov­ing of Bush's efforts in last week's CBS/New York Times poll, the people have indeed spoken. However, this administration has also spoken, stat­ing that they are not by the people, for the people and of the people. Instead, it is by their boss, for the history books, and of those who hap­pen to agree with Bush and Cheney. 
Will McAuliffe is a senior Political Science major who welcomes all com­ments and criticisms at mcauli­ffe.4@nd.edu. He has truly enjoyed being able to share his thoughts and ideas with all of The Observer's read­ers, and hopes that his columns have been helpful and provocative to those who have read them. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Some cause happiness wherever they go; others whenever they go. " 
Oscar Wilde playwright 


SubmitaLetter
'·. . . ·:·. ·.. ... ..· :·:. ·:·: -'~-:;. ·:: ·=· ·..·. .«=..:·:=~· ·-:·.•·. ·.;: ·:·. ·•. . << 
to tbeEditor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The countenance is the portrait ofthe soul, and the eyes mark its intentions." 
Marcus Tullius Cicero Roman statesman 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Monday, April 30, 2007 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Church condemns slavery 

In response to my column on the natural law and the Magisterium of the Church ("Natural law still applies," April 24), professor Christian Moevs claims that "until 1888" the popes were "condoning slavery" ("Natural law proves fallible," April25). Normally, a reader who com­ments on a column should have the last word. But the Moevs comment is inexcusably simplistic and mislead­ing. 
Slavery antedated the Church by centuries. The Latin "servitus" can mean either "slave" or "servant." It embraced servitude by "just title," as in punishment for crime or by voluntary contract, as well as the unjust servitude which we know as slavery. The 1866 Holy Office document to which Moevs apparently refers, rec­ognized that distinction -a point which Moevs fails to mention. In 1866, the Pope over the Holy Office was Pius IX who, in beatifYing Peter Claver in 1850 for his work among slaves, had called slavery "supreme wickedness." 
For further information I suggest Rev. Joel Panzer's book, The Popes and Slavery (Alba House, 1996). Panzer analyzes 12 explicit papal condemnations of slavery, dat­ing from the 1400s when the modern age of slavery arose. Prior to the Civil War, some American bishops taught that, although trading in slaves was immoral, owning slaves was not. Panzer demonstrates that this erroneous teaching contradicted the teaching of the popes. The fact that some bishops fail to do their duty should not surprise us today. 
The teaching authority of the Church, exercised by the Pope and the bishops in union with him, has been con­sistently right on slavery as it has been on contraception, homosexual activity, economic injustice and other issues that bother today's cafeteria Catholics. 
Charles Rice 
professor emerirus 
Law School 
April29 
Unawareness of awareness weeks a problem 
The Observer editorial of April 27 ("Effectiveness of awareness weeks questioned") makes several good points concerning the proliferation of aware­ness weeks. Now it is time to move from words to action. Ho·w about an Awareness Weeks Awareness Week? 
John Sitter 
English professor 
April27 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 
Monday, April 30, 2007 
I sci!'&iflhnI 
Flogging Molly an Irish success at Legends 
It's likely that few events in the his­tory of Legends were as anticipated as Thursday's Flogging Molly concert. 
This was the event for which Legends set up an overflow tent on its patio, complete with projection TVs and sound equipment. This was the event that had people lin­ing up hours before­hand in the pouring rain to get a good spot inside. 
This was the event that delivered. 
Flogging Molly ­one of the world's premier Irish bands-gave a concert that lived up to the expectations, bringing down the packed house with its high-energy performance and intense music. 
The band may be labeled as punk rock, but it certainly doesn't act like it. Flogging Molly doesn't play so loud and fast that 


Sean Sweany 
Assistant Scene Editor 
ing stories about his youth in Ireland with jokes about having to drink his beer out of a plastic blue Legends cup. He has that distinctive voice of a great Irish storyteller and used it very well Thursday night. 
Regan is hands down one of the best fiddle players around -something you really notice a lot more in a live concert compared to Flogging Molly's COs. All the other instruments seemed to play off her tlddle for most of the show, and she even held her ground when she switched to the tin whistle. Regan wins the Most Valuable Performer award. 
There were quite a lot of diehard Flogging Molly fans at Legends, and the band didn't disappoint by playing most of its popular songs, including "Drunken Lullabies," "Hebels of the Sacred Heart" and "What's Left of the Flag." For the encore, the acoustic introduction to "Black Friday Hule" was the only thing that managed to calm the Legends crowd on the night 
-and that lasted for only 
a few minutes until the happen much more regularly. I think it's great that the tent was set up to accommodate the large crowd, and its too bad the band didn't want the back doors opened so those people could see inside. 


The club clearly wasn't expecting that such a large crowd would be excited, possibly drunk and hard to control (who knew?) and didn't have any barricades set up between the crowd and the band. Because of this, work lights were on for 20 minutes or so while barriers were put in place ­a nuisance, but a good move overall. In the end, the concert was handled very well, and I think Legends will learn from this next time. (Maybe we can fix that leaky roof too, perhaps?) 
There's no doubt that the concert was a great success. This was a great band for a small, intimate setting like Legends and it gave an unforgettable performance. Flogging Molly needs to be invited back, and it needs to be soon. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd. edu 
you can't actually hear Flogging Molly whole band brought the what's going on, nor are doesn't play so energy back to a raucous its lyrics overly angry or frenzy.
loud and fast that

violent. Sure, it's fast Kudos to Flogging Molly paced and not as gentle you can't actually for putting on an amazing as The Chieftains, but the hear what's going show at such a small venue band is smart enough to -and for putting up with 
on, nor are its

play at a level where all what it did. Band members of its many instruments lyrics overly angry made the best of their plas­come together to con­or violent. tic beer cups, a leaky roof 
tribute to the perform­ance. 
Dave King (lead vocals and guitar) and Bridget Regan (fiddle and tin whistle) stood out as the anchors of the group, and also its most talented mem­bers. 
King is a great host, mixing in touch-
and poor crowd control, constantly cracking jokes and keeping everything light-hearted. That brings me to my one complaint about the night: Legends. 
I'm thrilled that a name as big as Flogging Molly was brought in for a show -something like this should 


THEATER REVIEW 
Farley Hall Players show one to 'Take With You' 
scientist.

By TAE ANDREWS Alongside him is Mr. De Pinna (Joe
Scene Editor 
Edmonds), Sycamore's pot-bellied 
assistant and harebrained partner in 

It's an eccentric household, to put it crime, who moves around with a truly nicely. The Farley Hall Players put on unique and strange herky-jerky strut. a production of "You Can't Take It Maid Rheba (Carly Torres) and her With You" Friday and Saturday night oblivious fiancee Donald (Adam in Washington Hall. Set inside the cozy Hembree) also get mixed up with the confines of the Sycamore family living Sycamores. And then there's Grandpa room, the play follows a Martin Vanderhof, the book­love story between Alice cooking patriarch of the Sycamore (Caitlin Will Haley steals Sycamore clan. Murphy) and Tony Kirby the show and hams Presiding over all of the (Steve Iwanski). madness is mother and
it up as the bushy~

Unfortunately for Alice, playwright Penny Sycamore,
eyebrowed Boris 

chaos ensues when she who's fairly harmless but brings Tony home to Kolenkhov, Essie's spends much of her time meet her family. running around dealing
Russian ballet 
And what a family it is. with everyone else.
instructor who is 

It's difficult to decide Among some of the other where to begin when given to impromptu unique characters scram­describing this wacky bled into the mix is Miss
wrestling matches. 

lot. Alice·'s impish sister Wellington, a hard-boozing Essie is a self-deceived actress who -despite ~iva who aspires to be a ballerina. As spending much of her stage time in a a result, she spends nearly all of her dead-to-the-world inebriated coma ­time onstage practicing her pirouettes manages to pop up for the odd hilari­with a vapid expression on her face. ous moment or three. Her hubby Ed encourages her by Will Haley steals the show and hams clanging away on the xylophone. it up as the bushy-eyebrowed Boris 
Mr. Sycamore (Dan Justice) has the Kolenkhov, Essie's Russian ballet entire house in perpetual danger of instructor who is given to impromptu going up in flames as the family's resi­wrestling matches. Finally, the Grand dent tinkerer and subterranean rocket Duchess Olga Katrina (Lis Tuholski) makes an appearance and, if nothing an audience member or two in search else, should never be accused of being of hidden contraband. After finding "stingy with the blintzes." explosives in the house, the entire kit 
Some of the show's highlights and caboodle ends up getting locked include: in the slammer. 
+ The federal investigation of What makes "You Can't Take It With Grandpa Martin Vanderhof by FBI You" such a cheeky comedy is that it's Agent Jim (Andrew Wright). Looking a "Meet the Parents" (or is it "Meet perfectly poindexter in suspenders, the Fockers?") type of meet-and-greet. glasses and high flood water pants, The Sycamore family captures perfect­the agent begins losing his mind as he ly the "stranger than fiction" feel to loses an argument the whole affair and in which he tries, the awkward nature of unsuccessfully, to bringing a significant
'7 wanted to pick a show
explain to Grandpa other home for the why he must pay his that was entertaining, fun first time. At times, back income taxes. you can't help but
to perform andjust an 
+ An extremely cringe for the young
overall great experience 
unfortunate game of couple as the insanity word association for everyone involved." unfolds all around orchestrated by them. Penny in which Tony As senior director
Alyse Kinchen

Kirby's parents -Alyse Kinchen wrote in

senior director 

the haughty, high­her notes in the show's class couple Mr. playbill, "I wanted to Anthony Kirby Sr. pick a show that was and Mrs. Miriam Kirby -end up entertaining, fun to perform, and just divulging far too much information an overall great experience for every­about both Wall Street and their sex one involved." She certainly succeeded life. in that endeavor. 
+ The return of the federal investi­Despite the title, it's clear that audi­gators (played by Nate Forte, Lauren ences took a lot away from "You Can't Mangiaforte and Andrew Wright) who Take It With You." stop at nothing in the pursuit of pecu­niary justice, including the frisking of Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1 @nd.edu 
---------------------------------------. 


THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Monday, April 30, 2007 
page 11 
DVD REVIEW 
Hong Kong box set an 'Affair' to remember 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA Senior SraffWrirer 
Improving upon a great film is a daunting task, and often a futile one. But Martin Scorsese proved capable of the challenge when he undertook a remake of "Infernal Affairs," the highly acclaimed 2002 Hong Kong crime thriller. 
Scorsese's masterful reinvention debuted under a different title -"The Departed" ­but it rippled through Hollywood as powerfully and as easily as its predecessor had through Asia. Terrifically entertaining, brilliantly acted and superbly photographed, "Infernal Affairs" started a chain of events that would leave a lasting impact halfWay across the world. It caught the eye of an appreciative Scorsese, whose remake garnered the legendary 64­year-old director his long overdue Oscar. 

More than any other, Scorsese's win is a tes­tament to the strength of the original material. Proving the cyclical nature of such success, the praise showered on "Departed" led to the release of the "Wernal Affairs" trilogy in a new three-disc box set from the Weinstein Company. 
While the first "Wernal Affairs" film was previously available, this release marks the first time that "Infernal Affairs II," a prequel, and "Infernal Affairs III" -a sequel that includes intervening flashbacks ala "The Godfather: Part II" -are available on DVD in America. Together, the three films weave a compelling and intricate tapestry of the Hong Kong underworld. 
Of the trio, "Infernal Affairs" is by far the best. It has become an instant classic on the strength of its concise storytelling and visual grandeur. The best scenes in the movie come in the briefest interactions between Tony Leung and Andy Lau, who play the charac­ters that inspired Leonardo DiCaprio's Billy Costigan and Matt Damon's Colin Sullivan, respectively. They spend much of the movie dodging one another, but the narrative builds to their climactic rooftop dust-up, a scene that pops with tension-filled verve thanks to Leung and Lau's engaging chemistry. Compounding this beautifully played scene is the rich cine­matography, which captures the great expanse of Hong Kong's skyline as the back­drop to this very private struggle. 
Two different endings were shot for "Wernal Affairs." Shot to appease Chinese officials concerned with the film's difficult con­tent, the second is much more upbeat and much less effective. Both are included on the DVD and allow for a good comparison. • 
While "Infernal Affairs II" and "ill" struggle when compared to their elder sibling, both films are able-bodied examples of Hong Kong cinema's greatest strength: pure, frenzied energy. Like most sequels, money was a clear motivation for their making. As a result, both movies feel less organic. They are chained to habitual albeit impressive set pieces as opposed to subtle character development. Still, it's satisfYing to see Leung and Lau reprise their roles coolly and effortlessly in "Infernal Affairs ill." 


The recent DVD set features strong picture and audio quality that amplify the trilogy's impressive production values. Each of the three DVDs also houses bonus material unique to the individual fihns. They include trailers, featurettes on the making of each installment, deleted scenes and a subtitled commentary track for "Infernal Affairs II." 
Unfortunately, there are no commentaries fea­
turing Leung and Lau, but the special features 
that are included strengthen the overall pack­
age. 

Watching "Infernal Affairs" after "The 
Departed," it's easy to see what caught Scorsese's discerning eye and inspired his imagination. Spread across three movies, the intrigue of this story comes from observing two enthralling leads. These men sink so far into the quicksand of their concealed lives that they begin to question who they were and · what they've become. The dilemma sparks a 
fascinating drama. 
Contact Rama Gottnmukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Kickin' It Old Skool' gets high marks for effort 
with his friends, Kickin' It Old Skool Rosenbaum), as arro­emulating the 
gant as an adult as he fashions of pro­was as a preteen. fessional break-While not a terrific dancers and movie on its own,
Director: Harvey Glazer 

developing a "Kickin' It Old Skool"
Writers: Trace Slobotkin, Josh Siegal 

crush on class­shines in its ability to
and Dylan Morgan . 

mate Jennifer. reference nearly every
Starring: Jamie Kennedy, Christopher

After Jennifer beloved '80s icon. The
McDonald and Maria Menounos 
change and evolve without him. When he overhears that his parents are financially strapped from all his medical bills and are about to lose their house, Justin pieces back together his old circle of friends, the Funky Fresh Boyz -Darnell (Miguel A. Nunez, Jr.), Aid (Bobby Lee) and Hector (Aris Alvarado)-and convinces them to compete with him in a dance contest offering a grand prize of $100,000. As they start their training, Justin also faces a grown-up Jennifer (Maria Menounos) entering back into his life. She, of course, happens to be engaged to Kip (Michael 

By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Editor 
"Kickin' It Old Skoal" is proof that some­times you just can't pick movies based on the reviews at rottentomatoes.com. Although the movie is currently enjoying a zero percent rating on the popular critical Web site, for fans of 1980s pop culture, it's an enjoyable trip down memory lane. 
12-year-old Justin Schumacher is an average kid of the 80s -trading Garbage Pail Kids col­lectible cards 
shoots down the advances of "cool kid" Kip and makes it known that she like Justin as well, a freak accident occurs and Justin flips himself off the stage during a talent show, lands on liis head and goes into a coma. 
Flash forward 20 years and a 32-year old Justin (Jamie Kennedy) fmally wakes just as his harried parents Marty (Christopher McDonald) and Sylvia (Debra Jo Rupp) are about to pull the plug on his life support. In the spirit of the '80s clas­sic, "Big," Justin remains the 12-year old stuck back in 1986 and has to find a way to adapt to a world that has continued to film also includes the 
obligatory cameo by David Hasselhoff, who appears in a "Don't Hassle the Hoff'' T-shirt while deliv­ering the Trans Am from "Knight Rider." 
Kennedy is wide-eyed and sweet as Justin, but tends to overreach by portray­ing what appears to be a mentally dis­abled person, rather than a kid in an adult's body. He would have done far bet­ter studying Tom Hanks' performance in "Big" and trying to emulate the childlike persona that Hanks nailed. 
In her major acting debut, Menounos (formerly an "Entertainment Tonight" and "Channel 1" correspondent) is dreadful as the object of Justin's affections. She's pret­ty to look at, but has the emotional capa­bility of a Barbie doll and hits a wall whenever she has to sell a line of dia­logue. It's not all Menounos' fault, though -her character was written as a dim bulb, which becomes infuriating during the film. Her motivations are also com­pletely lacking, since it is never believable that a sweet girl like herself would be involved with the borderline-sociopathic Kip, who treats her and everyone else like dirt. 


Rosenbatnn (TV's "Smallville") plays the bad-guy boyfriend part with an exaggerat­ed lack of redeeming qualities and deliv­ers one of the better performances of the film. 
This is one of those movies that can only really be enjoyed with a great audience. If people aren't clapping or shouting inap­propriate comments at the screen, the movie loses the only value it has. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April 30, 2007 
NBA 

Bulls finish sweep of defending-champion Heat 
Nash dishes out 23 assists as Suns take 3-1 series lead over Lakers; Carter's 27 points lead Nets over Raptors 
midable opponent," Heat coach Pat Riley said. "They are a great team .... They deserved to win. There's no doubt in my mind. They can go a long way." 
Dwyane Wade scored 24 points for Miami on 8-for-22 shooting, and added 1 0 assists. Shaquille O'Neal had 16 points, Alonzo Mourning scored 14 and James Posey had 18 rebounds ­a club-playoff-record 17 on the defensive end -for the I I eat. 
Suns 113, Lakers 100 
Steve Nash did what he usually does-only better than he's ever done it. 
With that, the Phoenix Suns have a commanding 3-1 lead over the Los Angeles Lakers in their tirst-round playofT series. 
Nash had a career-high 23 assists -one shy of the NBA playoff record -to go with 1 7 points, and the Suns raced to victory over the Lakers on Sunday to move within one win of advancing to the second round. 
Amare Stoudemire had 27 points and a carem playoff-high 21 rebounds for the run-and­gun Suns. who vowed to speed things up after a lethargic per­formance in Game 3. 
"We just wanted to be in the right spots and just wanted to be a lot mon1 aggressive," Nash said. "I just felt like I was going to be more aggressive, put the onus on myself to make plays." 
The Suns averaged an NBA­leading 110.2 points during the regular season, scorif\g at least 100 in all but 14 of tlwir 82 games and less than 90 only twice. After losing Game :{ to the Laknrs 95-89, coach Mikn ))'Antoni and his players knew they had to quicken the pace. 
Did they ever. 
Shawn, Marion had 22 points and 11 rebounds, supersub Leandro Barbosa scored 16 points and James Jones ~tdded 11 f<>r the Suns. 
"The speed of the game was ours," ))'Antoni said. "They sur­prised us with their int1msity in Game 3. Today wasn't a sur­prise. We have our system, and we ran it pretty good today. We had 34 assists on 41 baskets and that's because of our spacing. That's what we do-we've done it all year." 


()'Antoni said had the Suns shot the ball like they usually do, Nash might have had 30 assists. 
Nets 102, Raptors 81 
The New Jersey Nets made 

quick  work  of the  Haptors  
again.  
Now  they  head  back  to  

Toronto looking to put a quick end to the first-round series. 
Vinee Cartnr scored 27 points, Hiehard Jefferson added 23, and the Nets took a 3-1 lead ovnr the Atlantic Division champions Sunday night with a 21-point victory -their sec­ond-biggest ever in a playoff game. 
Jason Kidd added 17 points, 13 assists and eight rebounds for New Jersey, which can advance to the Eastern Conference semifinals with a vidory in Game 5 on Tuesday night. If the Haptors win that one, Game 6 would be baek in New Jersey on Friday. 
Toronto's first postseason since 2002 is shaping up as a 
short one. Teams taking 3-1 leads in series have won 158 and lost only eight. 

Andrea Bargnani scored 16 points for the Raptors, who led for all of 15 seconds in the two games at the Meadowlands. Toronto has lost eight straight road playoff games since beat­ing Philadelphia on May 6, 2001, in Game 1 of Eastern Conference semitinals. 
Kidd, who missed practice on the eve of Game 3 with a sore knee that Raptors coach Sam Mitchell doesn't seem to believe he had, sat the entire fourth quarter. That's probably all that prevented him from a second straight triple-double, leaving him with 10 in the postseason, tied with Larry Bird for second on the career list. 
The Nets punished the Haptors with their fast break in the first three games, outscor­ing them 49-25. New Jersey did its damage from the 3-point line Sunday, making a franchise playofl'-record 14. 

The first round in the East is shaping up as a brief one. Detroit and Chicago both swept their series, and Cleveland is up 3-0 on Washington in the other. 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Micha-el Jordan's old Chicago jersey hangs over the Miami Heat's home Ooor, a trib­ute to the six-time NBA champi­on. 
Now, a new bunch of Bulls want a title of their own after ending the Heat's reign atop the league with a four-game sweep. 
Ben Gordon scored 24 points and Luol Deng had 22 to lead Chicago past Miami 92-79 Sunday in Game 4 to clinch the first-round Eastern Conference series. The Bulls advanced in the postseason for the first time since Jordan's last title in 1998. 
Chicago, which meets Detroit next, became the first team to oust a defending champion in the tirst round since Phoenix did it to San Antonio in 2000. 
"We felt confident coming into this series," Bulls guard Kirk Hinrich said. "We felt like we could win." 
With good reason. Including playoffs, Chicago was 7-1 against Miami this season, start­ing with a 108-66 win on open­ing night, spoiling the lleat's championship-ring celebration, and ending their season by allowing only two points in the tina! 5:27 of the clincher -clos­ing the game with a 14-2 run. 
The coach of that Suns team that beat San Antonio seven years ago? Scott Skiles, who coaches the Bulls now and who put together a plan that befud­dled Miami all series long. 
"It's an accomplishment," Skiles said. "We're in a funny position here. We want to enjoy it. It was great. We played well. We played hard all four games. We deserved to win -but we want to keep playing." 
Chicago became the 80th con­secutive NBA team to advance after taking a 3-0 lead in a series. Only three teams in major pro sports have overcome such a deficit, and the Heat won't be joining the 1942 Toronto Maple Leafs, 1975 New York Islanders and 2004 Boston Red Sox in that exclusive dub. 
"We ran into more than a for-
AP 


Bulls forward Andres Nocioni fouls Heat center Alonzo Mourning in Chicago's 92-79 win Sunday to take the series 4-0. 

The Observer accepts classitleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
SUMMER WORK-$15.50 base­appt. flexible schedules, no exp.needed,customer sales/service, conditions apply,all ages 17+, positions throughout the US, apply now, start after finals, 
www. workforstudents.com 
Sitter for 11-year-old girl in Granger and sometimes older sisters, 15 & 
17. Days, 30-40 hours/week now through summer. Reply: Linda.Harmon1 @comcast.net 
Seeking Designer for personal web­site. 
Call 574-631-5491 & lv. msg. 
House mate wanted. Looking for house mate to share a house 1.5 miles from Notre Dame. House mate would have upper floor which includes own room and tlathroom with access to shared living area, kitchen, and laundry facilities. Monthly rent includes utilities (gas & electric). Rent is $210 per month. 
Call 289-6643 for for information Graduating? Not want to miss any football games this faii?.Not ready to pay rent? Want your first job to be tons of fun? The La Lumiere School in La Porte, Indiana (30 miles West of South Bend) is hiring an Assistant Director of Residential Life. Help plan nightly and weekend activities for the 150 day and board­ing students, concentrating Ol) the 65 boarding students. Housing, utili­ties and meals are included in addi­tion to a stipend. You will have plen­ty of free time to attend graduate school or visit with friends back in South Bend. Preference given to candidates willing to coach a sport. Come enjoy a great environment during your first year out of college, and help provide an enjoyably pro­ductive experience for the La Lumiere students. Plea.se contact: Michael Kennedy, Headmaster, La Lumiere School, 6801 N. Wilhelm Road, La Porte, IN 46530. 219-326­7450. kennedy@lalumiere.org 
FoR SALE 
•No CONDOS• NEW 2/3 BR,2 bath condos Minutes from campus Starting in $130,000s 574-252-2427 ndcondos.com 
Reserve Yours Today! 
FoR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com 
BETIER HOMES,BETIER AREAS,BETIER DEALS. 
BlueGoldRentals.com 
3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for 07/08 school year. On line see rent­nd.com or mmmrentals.com. Contact Gary at Grooms@ourwebspot.net or phone 574-277-4759. 
Condo for rent-walk to ND/SM. Grt loc.Spac.Lower,2b/2b incl.all appli. AIC,Carpet,Porch, Car Port $925 + uti/. 630-417-8763 /MCL214@aol.com 
Very large home for rent for next school year. 1 block east of cam­pus. Walk to class/food/shops. 4 huge bedrms/3 full baths/large kitchen-lam rm & laundry rm. 3 decks overlook huge fenced yard. Very private & safe! Must see! 239-707-2025. 
----------------------------------------------; 
New 3 BR,3.5 bath twnhse, close to campus, carpet, unfurn, all appi.AC, 2 car gar. No pets. $1650/mo plus util. 914-232-3328. 

WALK TO CAMPUS!! JAMISON RESIDENTIAL 3 BDRM 2 BA LUX­URY CONDO. ACROSS B-BALL STADIUM FROM CAMPUS. SLEEPS UP TO 4 STUDENTS. EXCELLENT RENTAL FOR 2 GRAD STUDENTS OR FOR PRI­VACY. CONVERT 3RD BEDROOM TO STUDY. CAB,NET,GAS,ELEC, INCLUDED. $1600 PER MONTH BEGINNING 6/1. CALL MARK @ 310-940-9444. 
1-bdrm apts. Quiet historic neigh­borhood. Laundry & security. $575/mo. 574-532-8718. 
Furnished 1 bdrm apt., 2 mi to ND, AC, non-smoking, no pets. $400/mo 
+ utilities, free laundry, fenced yard. 574-289-9365. 
Two custom built riverfront homes for sale or rent. New construction, 
10 minutes to Notre Dame. First home has 4 bedrooms, 4 baths, 3500 sq. ft. Second home has 4 bedrooms, 3 baths, 3300 sq. ft. Both have a walkout lower level with sec­ond fireplace and gorgeous views. Must see! Windsor Prop.LLC 574-876-3424 
Roseland Cottages available 2 bdrm 1ba, walk to campus w/W/D. 574-272-3033 or dpaul@ nd.edu 
CHICAGO AREA HOUSING OPPORTUNITY for Female ND Grad: Family in Northbrook has home-bound 17-yr-old daughter with chronic illness similar to chron­ic fatigue syndrome. Free room & board for responsible person to live in house & act as "big sister". Three blocks from Metra. Call: Dan 312­913-2130 or Chris 574-339-0582. 
Storage facility for rent. Close to ND. 1200 W. 6th St., Mishawaka. Video & access control security, cli­mate controlled. Summer rate for students. 2 mi north of Marian High School. 5x10 $99; 10x10 $149. Call 574-277-1878. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. Call our 24 hour confiden­tial hotline at 1-800-No-ABORT or visit our website at wwwJifecall.org 
Adopt: A young loving couple long to share their Hearts and horne with a newborn & will provide Endless love. Expenses paid call Eileen & Ed at 1-800-718-6577 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape to learn about resources at ND and in South Bend. 
Evergreen Self Storage. Both cli­mate and non-climate controlled. Sizes from 1Ox1 0 to 1Ox20. Located in the Princess Way Industrial Park in Granger at 12575 Sandy Drive. Mention this ad and save 10% off your lease. Call574-243-4608 or 574-272-0618. 
If you ever fall off the Sears Tower, just go rea/limp, because maybe you'll look like a dummy and people will try to catch you because, hey, free dummy. 
If you ever catch on fire, try to avoid looking in a mirror, because I bet that will really throw you into a panic. 
If trees could scream, would we be so cavalier about cutting them down? We might, if they screamed all the time, for no good reason. 


OUND THE NATION 
Monday, April 30, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NFL 

team 
Boston 16•8 Toronto 12-12 Baltimore 12~13 Tampa Bay 1M4 NewYork 944 
team record 
Cleveland 14-8 Minnesola 1441 Detroit > 43•11 Chicago 12*11 Kansas Cily 8·17 
team 
LA Angels Seattle Oakland Texas 

around the dial 
NBA 
Jazz at Rockets 8 p.m., TNT 
Spurs at Nuggets 
10:30 p.m., TNT 
MLB 
Cardinals at Brewers 7 p.m., ESPN 


Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. ­The Patriots' newest wide receiver hopes being with a winner will put the focus more on his catches than his controversies. 
"The Moss of old is back," he declared Sunday. 
Is that the Randy Moss who made the Pro Bowl in five of his first six seasons? Or is it the one who was fined $10,000 for pretend­ing to pull down his pants in front of a Green Bay crowd -among other transgressions? 
New England obtained Moss from the Oakland Raiders for a fourth-round draft choice Sunday, the second day of the NFL draft. The Raiders used that pick on Cincinnati cornerback John Bowie. 

The Patriots see signs that Moss will behave properly, a point of emphasis with team owner Robert Kraft since he bought the team before the 1994 season. 
Running back Corey Dillon was disgruntled while playing with a losing franchise in Cincinnati but was a good teammate after coach Bill Belichick and vice president for player personnel Scott Pioli trad­ed for him in 2004. Dillon wasn't re-signed after last season. 
"Bill and Scott have 
IN BRIEF 
Gordon passes Earnhardt 
on wins hst at Talladega 
TALLADEGA, Ala. -At the track. where Dale Earnhardt dominated, and on the day he would have turned 56, Jeff Gordon scored career victory No. 77. 
It was the fitting venue, the perfect day, for Gordon to move past Earnhardt on NASCAR's wins list. 
And, as expected, it was wildly unpopular. 
Fans littered the track with debris Sunday as Gordon crossed the finish line under caution at Talladega Superspeedway to move into sixth place on the win list. 
"I never caused a riot before for winning -well, maybe once or twice," Gordon laughed. 
It was the same reaction he received last week in Phoenix when he tied Earnhardt's mark and flew a No. 3 flag on his victory lap. That gesture didn't sit well with Earnhardt fans. 
shown that they can assemble players, espe­cially veteran players, who can acclimate to our cul­ture," club owner Robert Kraft told The Associated Press in a telephone inter­view. "If people don't adjust to our standards, they won't be here." 
Moss kept repeating how excited he was to join the 
' Patriots because of their chances of winning a fourth Super Bowl this decade. He even renegoti­ated downward a contract that would have paid him $9.25 million in 2007 and $11.25 million in 2008. "I've made a lot of money and I still have money in the bank. So by 
me coming to an organiza­tion such as the New England Patriots, why would money be a factor?" Moss said in a conference call. ''I'm still in awe that I'm a part of this organiza­tion." 
Belichick has built the Patriots as a team of play­ers who shun individual glory. Three-time Super Bowl winning quarterback Tom Brady makes sure to credit his teammates ­and spreads passes to many receivers. 
Is Moss OK with not being THE go-to guy? 
"Of course, I am," he said after a brief pause. "I've never been a selfish ballplayer." 

Athletics trade for outfield­
er Langerhans 
OAKLAND, Calif. -The Oakland Athletics got some relief for their injury-depleted outfield Sunday, acquiring Ryan Langerhans in a trade with the Atlanta Braves for a player to be named or cash. 
Langerhans will join the A's in Boston on Tuesday and is slated to start in center field for the opener of the two-game series with the Red Sox. 
"He plays all three outfield posi­tions, and given our situation with all the injuries, we need as many healthy bodies as we can get," A's general manager Billy Beane said. "He's a player we've liked in the past. He's off to a rough start in Atlanta and he became available to us." 
To make room on the roster for Langerhans, Oakland optioned Sunday's losing pitcher, Dallas Braden, to Triple-A Sacramento. 
Wheldon finally wins in 
Kansas City 
KANSAS CITY, Kan. -Dan Wheldon has seen too many close finishes at Kansas Speedway ­from just behind the winner. 
But for one of them, he might be a two-time defending IndyCar Series champion. 
Wheldon is no longer 0-for­Kansas, though. After finishing sec­ond in 2005 and 2006, both times by less than a second, he made Sunday's race a rare yawner. 
Wheldon was 10 seconds ahead of Dario Franchitti late in the Kansas Lottery Indy 300 and won under caution when Scott Sharp crashed with two laps to go. 
"It was a very different race for Kansas," Wheldon said. "Kansas is normally a producer of close finish­es. I have to say I much prefer the much wider margins than the shortest, because I lost the short­est." 
page 14 
TRACK AND fiELD 
Split Notre Da111e team grabs qualifying 111arks 

overall the Irish have won the 
By BILL BRINK 
mile relay at Drake. 
Sports Writer . 

The 4x800 relay took second place at Drake, crossing with In the last meet before the a time of 7:22.42. Junior Big East championship, Notre Adam Currie, freshman Dame garnered 11 Big East ·cameron Eckert, junior John qualifying marks as well as Cavanaugh and senior four NCAA Thomas Mideast regional Chamney made qualifying marks "I knew I was up the team, this weekend. The which ran the
going to put

team split up, with second-fastest
everything

some athletes time in school competing at the together in this history. Drake Relays in Freshman
race" 

Des Moines, Iowa, Jaclyn Espinoza and others travel­increased her ing to the Hillsdale regional qualify­
Austin Wechter Gina Relays in Irish runner ing distance in 
Hillsdale, Mich. 
One of the four regional qualifications went to junior Austin Wechter, who ran the 400-meter hurdles at the Drake Relays in a time of 
52.34 seconds. 
"I was able to concentrate on my own race," Wechter said. ''I'd done a lot of work on it. I'd had some goodraces up until then so I just had to put everything together. I knew I was going to put every­thing together in this race." 
Wechter's time was his best of the season. Since he quali­fied for regionals last year, the qualifying mark was weighing heavily on his m i n d 
the discus, win­ning the event at Hillsdale with a throw of 
49.76 meters. Freshman Elise Knutzen won the javelin for the second week in a row, tak­ing the event at Hillsdale with a throw of 41.37 meters. Sophomore Anna Weber earned her regional berth in the hammer by throwing for 
54.31 meters, her best throw of the season. 
Gaining Big East berths at Drake were junior Brett Adams, senior Dave Viken, freshman Matt Schipper and sophomores Tray Morgan and Jeff Mensch. Adams ran a per­
sonal-best 

3:4
7.85 in the 


"I was pretty frus­trated all "year not being able to get  'There was a lot of stress trying to get  1,500 meters. Viken and Schipper  
the regional quali­ that regional  cleared  4.85  
fier," Wechter said. "It's pretty much  qualifier out ofthe ,  meters in the pole vault and  
all I've been con­ way.  improved their  
centrating on.  I'm  qualifications,  
just glad it's off my  Austin Wechter  while  Morgan  
back now. There was a lot of stress  Irish runner  cleared meters to  4.55 earn  
trying to get that  his first qualifi­ 

regional qualifier out of the cation. Mensch threw the shot way." put a personal-best 46.87 
Two Irish relays ran very meters to qualify. well over the weekend. The For the women at Hillsdale, 4x1600 relay took first at the junior Elizabeth Philipp and Drake Relays, setting a school senior Ann Mazar ooth quali­record with their time of fied for the conference cham­
16:21.27. That time was 16 pionship. Philipp ran a per­seconds better than the rest of sonal-best 11:20.52 in the the field. 3,000-meter steeplechase, 
Senior Todd Ptacek, sopho­while Mazar also ran a per­more Patrick Smyth, junior sonal-best in the 5,000 Jake Watson and senior Kurt meters, crossing in 17:42.60. Benninger made up the relay team. This is the second con­Contact Bill Brink at secutive year and fifth time wbrink@nd.edu 
The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 30, 2007 
MLB 

Cardinals pitcher Hancock killed in morning car crash 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -The St. Louis Cardinals are mourning a team­mate for the second time in five years, and it isn't any easier this time. 
Josh Hancock, a relief pitcher who helped the team win the World Series last season, died early Sunday when his sport utility vehicle slammed into the back of a tow truck, bringing back painful memories of Darryl Kile's death in June 2002. 
"There's a big hole that's going to be there," St. Louis manager Tony La Russa said. "This is brutal to go through." 
The Cardinals postponed their home game Sunday night against the Chicago Cubs. La Hussa informed Hancock's fami­ly of the accident. 
"What words can you give somebody in a situation like this?" Cubs manager Lou Piniella said. 
Police said the 29-year-old Hancoek was alone in his 2007 Ford Explorer when the SUV struck the rear of a flatbed tow truck at 12:35 a.m. The tow truck was in the left lane with its lights flashing while assisting another car that had crashed, Police Chief Joe Mokwa said. 
Hancock died upon impact, Mokwa said. The driver of the tow truck, whose name was not released by police, was in the truck at the time of the crash but was not injured. Mokwa said the truck driver saw Hancock's SUV swerve just before it hit the tow truck. 
Mokwa said it appeared Hancock was driving at or just above the speed limit, and there were no alcohol containers in his vehicle. 
"We may never know what occurred," Mokwa said. "It appears that he just merely did­n't see the tow truek." 
The medical examiner's oflice said an autopsy had been seheduled. Serviees were planned for Thursday in Tup~1lo, Miss., where Hancock's family lives. Hancock was single. 
"All of baseball today mourns the tragic and untimely death of St. Louis pitcher Josh Ilancoek," baseball commissioner Bud Selig said. "He was a fine young pitcher who played an impor­tant role on last year's World Series championship team." 
The Cardinals will wear patches with Hancock's No. 32 on their sleeves for the rest of the season. The team also planned a memorial for the bullpen, which already features a tribute to Kile. 
A Cardinals-Cubs game also was postponed five years ago after Kile was found dead in his hotel room in Chicago. The 33­year-old pitcher died of a coro­nary artery blockage. 
General manager Walt Jocketty said the Cardinals, who are off Thursday, plan to char­ter a plane to Hancock's funer­al. The team begins a three­game series in Milwaukee on Monday and returns to St. Louis on Friday. 
"Obviously, this is very diffi­cult for all of us, especially those of us who were here five years ago when we lost Darryl Kile," said Jocketty, his eyes red. "There's no way we could have played tonight's game." 
La Russa met with players shortly before a news confer­ence Sunday afternoon to pro­vide details of the accident and share memories. Late in the afternoon, two Cardinals jogged together in the outfield in a nearly empty Busch Stadium. 
"This has obviously been a very difficult time," St. Louis pitcher Braden Looper said. "Josh was a great teammate and a great friend to everybody, and he was a key part of our success." 
News of Hancock's death began to circulate around the majors on Sunday morning. Seattle Mariners pitcher 'Jeff Weaver, who won the World Series clincher for St. Louis in October, got a call from Cardinals reliever Randy Flores. 
"I never really had a phone call like that before. It's kind of mind-boggling." 
storage
space
•lighted &. Paved 
• Free LOCk With EVery Urdt 
4 Month Special May mrot:gll 
August For Notre Oame Students 5 X 10 ...$149 + DEP 10 X 10 •..$199 + DEP 
Cali 574-247.7SOS 
Between Notre Dame ano Airport · at the comer of Mayflower & Edison 

Sign up fol' the Lectio@Eieven 


READING SLAM! 
Tuesday, May 1 
10:30 pan -Midnight Reckel''s 
A five-aninute public l'eading of any text could win you a $200 gift cel'tificate to the Haananes ND Bookstol'e! 
Musical intel'ludes by: D'Oscal' El'in Duquette 
Lectio@Eieven A Late-Night Cabal'et fol' the Soul 
For more information or to sign up: Jonathan Couser (574) 631-3923 or jcouser@nd.edu 
Monday, April 30, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
SMC TENNIS 
Netters drop first-round 111atch, finish fifth in conference 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 
After losing their first match this weekend, the Belles were only able to grasp fifth place in the MIAA conference tournament. 
"I think that the tournament went well. We didn't do as well as we hoped but as a team we came together and did the best we 
singles play. Olivet's Rachel Vllums and Jaclyn Mummaw 8-6 at No. 2, retired at No. 1, giving the win to and Rubino and Kaplan defeated 
McDavitt. At No. 2,  Olivet players Corey  
Gebert retired, and  Jager and Struble 8­ 
Olivet achieved their only singles win. Rubino  "We had many strong freshman  4 in the final spot. · With an overall record of 13-13 and  
defeated  Abbie  this year who  a conference record  
Utberg 6-1 and 6­ learned a lot this  of 5-3, the Belles  
1. O'Brien domi­nated as well, shutting out Jaime  season and will take their  fmished the season tied for fourth place with Calvin College.  
Morrison in two straight sets 6-0 and 6-0. Quaglia defeated Celeste Gruber 6-2 and 6­ experience into next season and help lead the team.,,  "We did pretty well this season. We improved a lot since last year, and we're going to be ready  
1 at No. 5. In the  for the next season,"  
final singles match, Gordon defeated Olivet player,..  Kelly McDavitt Belles captain  McDavitt said. "We had many strong freshmen this year  

Lindsey Struble 6­4 and 6-4. 
In doubles competition, the first Belles duo of Gebert and McDavitt fell to VIlums and Mallory Bailey 8-3. O'Brien and Gordon narrowly defeated the Olivet team of Utberg 
who learned a lot 

this season and will take their experience into next season and help lead the team," 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
In No. 3 singles, Knights senior Allyson Logan narrowly defeated Belles freshman Lisa Rubino in three matches, 6-3, 1-6 and 6-1. Belles senior Tara O'Brien also fell in the number four spot to Knight's freshman Rachel Strikwerda. Belles junior Cassie Quaglia fell in two sets to Knight's freshman Rachel DeGroot. 
Though the Belle's powerhouse duo of McDavitt and freshman 

could," senior captain Kelly McDavitt said. "We all supported one another and that helps the players. It was a good experience over­
all." 
In the first match of the weekend, the Belles fell 5-2 to Calvin College. In the first sin­gles spot, McDavitt dominated, defeating Knight's freshman 
"We improved a lot since last year, and we're going to be ready for the next 
season 
Kelly McDavitt Belles captain 
Country Retreat on 6.29 Acres! Tucked beautifully into the woods, this log home offers true rustic charm & easy living conveniently located between LaPorte & South Bend in Galena Township 
9636 N 300 East • Rolling Prairie $439,000 
Nature at its Best on3.84 Acres in beautiful Hesston area. Sits on a hill overlooking acreage with many_features throughout. 
Horses welcome. Located in Galena ownship&just 15 minutes to New Buffalo! 
W\\"W.MickyGallasProperties.com 
Geenan and DeGroot. 
The loss to Calvin placed the Belles in the loser's bracket, where they next went on to play Ahna College. In the second match of the weekend, the Belles domi­nated nearly shutting out Alma College 5-1. 
The Belles won every singles set of the match, McDavitt defeating Laura Kendrick 6-2 and 6-1 in the number one spot, Gebert defeat­ing Kelly Schwartzkopf 6-0 and 6­2 in the second spot, and Gordon defeating Betsy Bulthuis 6-1 and 6-2 at No.6. 
In doubles competition, both Gebert and McDavitt and Gordon and O'Brien won, 8-5 and 8-4, while the No. 3 doubles duo of Kaplan and Rubino fell narrowly, 9-7. 
Winning the match against Ahna allowed the Belles to com­pete in the fifth place match, where they defeated Olivet 7-2. 
Camille Gebert shut out the Knight's duo of Strikwerda and Kara Lipinski 8­0, Grace Gordon and Tara O'Brien fell at No. 2 doubles 8-6 to Logan and Jill VanVeen. In the third doubles match, the 

Elizabeth Geenen in two straight Belles freshman duo of Rubino In the final match of the 2007 sets, 6-2 and 6-2. and Erin Kaplan narrowly fell to season, Saint Mary's dominated in 
:Micky (jalTas Tn~perties (Boo) 680-.9682 
SMC SOFTBALL 


Amran throws no-hitter as Belles take doubleheader 
fourth and one run in the sixth to make the score 6-4. 
Kurczak led the Belles' attempted comeback with an unearned run but could not score again in the sixth or sev­enth, and the game ended a 6­5 loss for Saint Mary's. 
The Belles turned their luck around and handed Hope a 7-6 defeat in the second game. "We knew we should have won the first game," Sullivan said. "We kind of lost it ourselves. We knew if we made changes in the second game, we were going to win." 
In the second game, the Belles played with gusto. Healy 
went 4-for-4, 
Kurczak 3-for-3, 

Belles. "We knew ifwe Davison 2-for-3 "The weather and senior short­
made changes in 
really wasn't stop Sarah Miesle even an issue, the second game, 3-for-4. she said. "The we were going Sophomore pitch­only thing was er Amram gave
to win.,,
being careful up nine hits and with the field struck out eight. conditions and Erin Sullivan The Belles got 14 drying the ball Belles coach hits off Hope's 
off." 
In game one, the Belles managed 10 hits off Hope, but the Dutch responded with 10 hits off sophomore pitcher Calli Davison. 
Hope started off the first inning by plating a run, but Saint Mary's quickly knocked in a run of its own in the first, scored by Davison off freshman outfielder Ashley Peterson's double. 
The Belles kept the playing field even after Hope scored another two runs in the second inning. Freshman second base­man Maureen Healy hit sopho­more first baseman Katie Rashid in while sophomore outfielder Cathy Kurczak scored on Peterson's sacrifice fly. 
With the score 3-3 in the third, Rashid hit one out of the ballpark for her fourth home run of the season. The Dutch had two more runs in the 
pitching staff. 

Hope started off the game well, scoring twice in the first, but the Belles swung their way back with four runs in the second from Rashid, Kurczak, Healy, as well as a homer from senior third base­man Laura Heline. In a game marked by multiple long balls, Miesle banged a homer in the fifth and Davison homered in the sixth, knocking in Healy. 
With the score at 7-3, the Dutch made a run back, scor­ing three times in the seventh. It wasn't enough to tie the game, however, and the Belles walked away with the 7-6 win. 
On Saturday, the Belles secured the No. 4 spot in the MIAA standings by sweeping the Kalamazoo Hornets. Davison gave up just two runs and eight hits while the Belles hit 12 off Kalamazoo's pitch­ing. 
The Belles squashed the 
Hornets with their strong offense as Healy, Davison, Reline, sophomore catcher Ashley Fusaro and Miesle scored five runs in the first. Junior designated hitter McKenna Corrigan, Miesle and Fusaro pounded out three more runs in the third to make the score 8-1. Peterson's run in the fourth and Kurczak's single to hit in Reline in the fifth ended the game at 10-2 because of the slaughter rule. 
In their second win over Kalamazoo, the Belles had more trouble driving in runs, but still managed to pull off a 2-0 victory -thanks for a no­hitter from Amram. 
It is the third time in Amram's career that she has thrown a no-no and the first no-hitter in the MIAA since Saint Mary's alum Bridget Grall threw one April 1, 2006, in a 5-0 win over Adrian. In Amram's perfect game she struck out nine, bringing her season total to 147 strikeouts. 
That pitching performance was key, Sullivan said, because the Belles' hitting wasn't com­ing through. 
"The first game we hit really well," Sullivan said. "The sec­ond game, we had good hits but we couldn't string them together. But our pitching and our defense was amazing." 
1-Ieline scored in the second and Miesle tripled to hit Healy in during the fifth inning. 
The Belles (23-7, 8-6 MIAA) will face Adrian College (15­11, 4-8 MIAA) today in their last conference game of the season in Adrian, Mich. at 3:30 p.m. 
"They've got a tough team," Sullivan said of seventh­ranked Adrian. "They hit well and they've got a couple of good pitchers. We're definitely not taking them lightly. We're going to come out strong." 
Contact Rebecca Slinger at rslingO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
By REBECCA SLINGER 
Sports Writer 
In a twice-rescheduled matchup, the Belles split a doubleheader Friday against Hope College (24-11, 12-4 MIAA), posting a 5-6 loss and a 7-6 win on a rain-soaked field. 
But Saturday, the Belles swept Kalamazoo 10-2, 2-0 as Saint Mary's hurler Kristin Amram threw a no-hitter in game two -the first no-hitter in the MIAA in more than a year. 
Head coach Erin Sullivan insisted Friday's conditions weren't a major problem for the 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 30, 2007 
ROWING 



Irish capture fourth consecutive Big East title in Massachusetts 
By DANIELL£ KELLER Sports Writer 

Notre Dame captured its fourth consecutive Big East championship Sunday in Worcester, Mass., after it raced for its second straight day after taking down two ranked teams Saturday. 
"It wasn't the easiest thing to do; it was pretty difficult. We raced some great teams and then rode five hours on a bus and had to per­form against some top-level com­petition." head coach Martin Stone said. 
Notre Dame was able to cope with the back-to-hack races, win­ning the varsity eight, varsity four, and novice four races, garnering enough points to claim the Big East title. 
"It was a risk we took, racing back-to-hack. But we were able to get it done," Stone said. 
Louisville took second place, while Syracuse earned the number three spot. Other teams present at the regatta included Georgetown, Rutgers, Connecticut, Villanova, Cincinnati, and West Virginia. 
Stone and assistants Joe Schlosberg and Marnie Stahl earned the Big East Coaching Staff of the Year Award for the second straight year. 
On Saturday, Notre Dame's var­sity eight boat continued its win­ning streak with two more victo­ries over top-10 ranked teams. 
The team traveled to New Jersey for races against No. 5 Virginia, No. 7 Princeton and George Washington. The lrL<>h varsity eight crew of Maria Romano, Lauren Buck, Meghan Boyle, Christine Trezza, Allison Marsh, Lauren Pearson, Mary Quinn, Amanda Polk, and Julie Sobolewski fmi<>hed the 2,000-meter course two sec­onds ahead of second-place Virginia. 
The second varsity eight, varsity four, novice eight, and second var­sity four boats all finL<>hcd third in their respective races, while the novice four boat took second in its race. 
The novice eight crew entered Saturday's race with a perf(lct 7-0 record. The crew lost their first race of the season, fini<>hing third place behind Virginia's two novice eight boats. The Virginia A boat posted a winning time of 6:42:01, 14 seconds ahead of Notre Dame. 
The Irish compete again May 12-13 when they travel to Oak Ridge, Tennessee, for the CentralJSouth Regional NCAA Championships. 
Contact Danielle Keller at dkeller@nd.edu 

SCHRAGE CELEBRATES 

By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 

Notre Dame won its third straight Big East series this weekend, taking two of three from host Rutgers in Piscataway, N.J. -and Irish coach Dave Schrage earned his SOOth career collegiate win on his birth­day. 
Schrage, the first-year Irish coach who turned 46 Sunday, said he will never forget the milestone triumph. 
"It's special to [win your SOOth game] on your birthday, for Notre Dame, in the fashion we did today," Schrage said. "It's something I'll remember forever. It was just a great win." 
The teams traded blowouts in their doubleheader Saturday before the Irish took the rubber game in a thriller Sunday. 
The Irish improved to 24-19 over­all and 8-9 in conference play, mov­ing them into a sixth-place tie with Cincinnati in the Big East standings with just three series to play before the conference tournament. 
"This is what we needed to do," Schrage said. "You want to be play­ing your best baseball when it comes close to tournament time." 
Rutgers, meanwhile, fell to 25-16 overall and 13-5 against Big East foes, dropping out of first place in the league standings for the first time in nearly a month. The Scarlet Knights exited the weekend tied for second in the conference with Louisville, a game behind league­leader St. John's. 
Notre Dame 15, Rutgers 3 
Irish sophomore David Phelps ran his record to 7-3 while he gave up three runs in seven innings and the productive Irish offense plated 15 runs on 13 hits. 
Phelps' earned-run average 

(1.64) rose slightly during the con­test, but it remains among the low­est in the Big East. The right-han­der scattered seven hits and struck out seven without walking a batter. 
"[Phelps has] been just outstand­ing for us," Schrage said. "He's really taken hold of that 
number-one spot [in the rotation] and pitched like you're supposed to." 
Irish shortstop Brett Iilley and sophomore rightfielder Ryan Connolly each reached base five times, while fifth-year catcher Matt Weglarz provided pop from the cleanup spot, hitting his third home run and racking up five RBis. 
The Irish plated one run in the first inning and two more in the second, before blowing the game open in the fourth. Senior center­fielder Danny Dressman led off the fourth with a single that rebounded off the glove of Rutgers third base­man Tim Querns, sparking a Notre Dame rally in which six runs were scored before the side was retired. 
The Irish took advantage of five more hits, a walk and an error by Scarlet Knights shortstop Todd Frazier to build a 9-0 lead for Phelps. 
Phelps surrendered two home runs but little else to the Rutgers ofl'ense that boasted five starters who came into the contest with bat­ting averages over .300. 
Scarlet Knights catcher Frank Meade hit a solo home run in the fifth and Frazier hammered a two­run blast in the seventh. 
But the Irish pushed across three runs in each ofthe final two innings to put the game even further out of reach. 
Rutgers 7, Notre Dame 0 
In the second half of Saturday's doubleheader, Rutgers senior Steve Healing worked the complete game, scattering seven hits and striking out two Irish batters. The right-hander did not surrender a walk. 
"Our offense was great in game one, but they really shut us down in game two," Schrage said. 
Sophomore second baseman Jeremy Barnes was the only Irish player with multiple hits in the game. 
Irish sophomore right-hander Kyle Weiland suffered hL<> first loss of the season as he surrendered four runs on five hits and three walks over 4.2 innings. 
Hutgers jumped on Weiland early, scoring a run on Meade's double in the second inning. In the fifth. the Scarlet Knights plated three more on three hits, including a two-out RBI double by catcher Jon f..ossard. 
The lead was more than enough for Healing, who improved his record to 6-3 on the season. 
Notre Dame 6, Rutgers 4 
The Irish gave Schrage his SOOth victory of his NCAA career when they came back from a 3-2 eighth­inning deficit to win in front of a record crowd of 1,024 at Bainton Field Sunday afternoon. 
Leftfielder Ross Brezovsky gave Notre Dame the lead when he dou­bled home Connolly and third baseman A.J. Pollock with two outs in the eighth. But Gossard continued his big weekend for Rutgers by hitting a solo home run off junior Joey Williamson to tie the score. 
Despite giving up the homer to Gossard, Willamson picked up the win after Notre Dame pushed across two more runs in the ninth. 
Dressman led off the frame with an infield single then scored when Barnes tripled to centerfield. 
"Barnesy hitting that triple gave us a huge lift," Schrage said. 
Barnes scored an insurance run for the Irish on senior first base­man Mike Dury's sacrifice fly. 
But the two-run cushion proved unnecessary as freshman Eric Maust and sophomore Sam Elam combined to strike out the side in a scoreless ninth. 
After Maust surrendered a walk and a single, Elam relieved him with two outs and struck out Hutgers first baseman Tom Edwards to end the game. It was Elam's first save of the season. 
Notre Dame took the early lead, scoring a run in each of the first two innings. 
In the second, Irish freshman designated hitter Hyan Miller hit a solo home run, his second round­tripper ofthe season. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 


BASEBALL 

Schrage takes win No. 500 in series finale over Rutgers 
. -------------------------------------------------------------~---­
Monday, April 30, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Hoyas 
continued from page 20 
two more goals for the Irish, but Stanwick scored her fifth goal of the half to give Georgetown a 7-4 lead at the break. 
Less than a minute into the second half, sophomore Jillian Byers net­ted an unassist­the goal, Byers's shot was stopped by Georgetown goal­keeper Maggie Koch and the Hoyas ran out the clock for the victory. 
"We came here to win a Big East championship and didn't get it done," Coyne said. "I thought we played very tenta­tively in the first half, but in the second half we were more 
aggressive and 
got back in the 
game." 
Stanwick, the 

ed goal to cut the  "We came here to  Big East player of  
Hoyas lead to two. Georgetown then stormed out  win a Big East championship and  the year, led the Hoyas with six goals on all six  
on a  4-0 run, to  didn ,t get it done.,,  shots  and  an  
take  a  com­ assist.  Junior  
manding lead with  11-5 less  Tracy Coyne  Schuyler Sutton also tallied two  
than 15 minutes  Irish coach  goals  for  

remaining in the game. 
"Our backs were against the wall, and we had the choice to lie down or play, and we stepped it up and started to compete in the second half," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "When we· started to play aggressively, we got back into the game." 
Notre Dame would not go quietly though, as McKinney and Byers scored consecutive goals to cut the lead to 11-7. Stanwick's sixth goal of the game for the Hoyas looked to put the game out of reach for the Irish with just over five minutes left, but Notre Dame continued to play aggressively. 
The Irish scored three times in the next four minutes, with two more goals from McKinney and another from Byers. After winning the draw control after Georgetown. 
The Irish were 
led offensively by 
McKinney's five goals, and Byers added three goals of her own. Despite the loss, Notre Dame held the advantage over the Hoyas in shots, groundballs, draw con­trols and turnovers on the game. 
"The whole time, our team had faith that we could come back," McKinney said. "We responded late and fought back, we just started too late." 
The Hoyas advanced to face off against second-seeded Syracuse in the finals. The Orange, who defeated Rutgers to reach the championship game, dispatched Georgetown 12-7 to capture the inaugural Big East championship. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 



E·WORD ·EMY 
Corpus Christi 
Dir. of Campus Ministry Master's degree in Catholic Theology, 3 yrs. exp. & Spanish fluency prefd. Send resume to deleona((V,iwacc.org or fax 361-883-2185 WW\v.rwacc.org 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish lose seventh straight 
Notre Dame drops two games to No. 11 DePaul in the Windy City 
By LORENZO REYES 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame fell twice at the hands of Big East rival No. 11115 DePaul in a double­header Sunday in Chicago. 
The Blue Demons remained undefeated in Big East play and improved to 35-7 overall, while the Irish dropped to 24­21 and 9-7 in conference play at fourth place. 
In the first half of the dou­bleheader, sophomore Brittney Bargar started for the Irish and faced some resistance early in the first inning. After two walks, Notre Dame senior catcher Gessica Hufnagle gunned down a runner attempting to steal, and Bargar was able to pitch her way out of trouble. 
Hufnagle also threw out another runner attempting to steal in the third inning after a DePaul single. 
In the fourth inning, senior Stephanie Brown reached base on a single and advanced to second on a sac­rifice bunt. Two subsequent outs, however, ended the Irish rally. 
The Blue Demons claimed 

the first two runs of the game in the bottom of the fourth when sophomore third base­man Amber Patton and junior Sandy Vojik led off the frame with singles. A sacrifice advanced the runners into scoring position until sopho­more catcher Jackie Tarulli brought them in with a sin­gle. 
The Irish got on the board in the next inning when freshman Christine Lux hit her second home run of the season, cutting the deficit in half. 
DePaul added an insurance run -the last of the game ­in the fifth after a bunt sin­gle, a stolen base and an RBI single from senior Kate Sheaks. 
Bargar received her 11th loss of the season in the first contest of the doubleheader. 
The second game started with the Irish loading the bases, and then leaving them full. Brown and Hufnagle both singled to reach base. And after junior Katie Laing's sacrifice bunt advanced the runners, Lux drew a walk to load them up. A strike out and a ground out later, the Blue Demons were able to 
breathe easier in the score­less game. 
After a dropped fly ball in the bottom of the second, and two singles later on in the frame, DePaul broke through with their first run of the game. 
In the fourth, the Blue Demons added to their lead when junior Marcy Wilus drove in Katie Hanson with a single. On an attempted tag­up at home, a DePaul runner was gunned down with a good relay throw from the outfield. 
Two more insurance runs were added in the sixth with Vojik's RBI fielder's choice and Wilus' second RBI of the game on a double. 
That was all the offense on the day, as Bargar fell to 16­12 on the season. The pitch­ing staff hasn't received much support during Notre Dame's seven-game losing streak -the offense has pro­duced only five runs during the drought. 
Notre Dame will travel to Chicago again Tuesday for its game against Loyola Chicago. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 


STUDY DATES AND TIMES: May 3: 7am to 3:00am Midnight Snacks! May 4: 7am to 3:00am May 5: 7am to 3:00am May 6: 7am to 3:00am Finals Week: May 7-11, Room.~ available except when .w:heduled by tlw 
Regiftrar'.~ office. 

May 11: DeBartolo Hall closes 30 minutes after last exam scheduled by the Registrar's Office. Midnight Snacks available only during Study days. 
See Building Support Personnel ifyou have specific needs: Room I03, I04. 
Coleman-Morse: May 3-10. 1"1 Floor: 7:00am-4:00am 2nd floor : 7:00am-3:00am 3rd Floor: 7:00am-12am 
See Building Support Person ifyou II ave specific needs: Room 101 Always Free Snacks! 


O'Shaughnessy: Rooms available for open study except when scheduled by the Registrar's office. 
May 3 & 4 : 8:00am to 1:OOam May 5-8: 8:00am to 3:00am May 9-10: 8:00am to 1:00am 
Rooms: 106, 107, 114, 1 15, 116, 117, 118,204,206, 207, 208, 209. 
~~ Good Luck with Finals ~~· 
··~ 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 30, 2007 
Entering the fourth quarter, the Irish held a slim 8-6 advan­
Tourney 
tage before rattling off four 
continued from page 20 
starting the season 3-3, the Irish won seven consecutive games, improving their overall record to 10-3 to go along with a perfect 4-0 mark in confer­ence play. During its winning streak, Notre Dame has outscored its opponents by an astounding 93-29 margin. 
"Starting 3-3, we knew at that point that we would have to win out to have any kind of impact on the season," Polk said. "The fact that we came together as a team to grind out seven going on eight victories is a big statement to who we are as a team and a unit." 
Perhaps none of Notre Dame's seven consecutive victo­ries has been as impressive as Saturday's win over Ohio State. Coming into the game, the Buckeyes had won four consec­utive contests and sat a half­game ahead of the Irish in the GWLL standings. 
Strong defense and timely offense ultimately helped turn what had been a close game into a comfortable victory for Notre Dame. 
consecutive goals to end the game. 
Polk started the run by tally­ing his fourth and final goal of the day off a pass from fresh­man attack Will Yeatman. Sophomore attack Duncan Swezey added his second goal of the day to push the Irish lead to four with only 4:35 remain­ing. Yeatman then notched his second goal of the day off a pass from junior midfielder Michael Podgajny, who finished the run with a goal of his own. 
On the other end of the field, Notre Dame's defense tightened up, allowing only four shots on goal -all of which were stopped by junior keeper Joey Kemp who had 13 total saves on the day. 
"We came around in the sec­ond half," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. "We finished the opportunities we had, and we didn't give them many opportu­nities. When they did get opportunities, Joey [Kemp] was all over the ball. He wasn't let­ting anything get by." 
The first half was a different story. After taking leads of 3-0 and 
the momentum after Sergio Brown hit a fade-away jumper
ChaiDps 
from three-point range as he was fouled. The crowd, which
continued from page 20 
was riled up after the Mean the advantage they needed to Girls previous basket, was edge out the Mean Girls. Big quickly silenced by Brown's men Kuntz and fellow football swish. player -and Mean Girl -The win was a complete Konrad Reuland battled each team effort with all five play­other down low the entire ers filling their roles. game and Castle Tournament Point's Ben MVP Robby Lepak grabbed Parris picked several big "I think we delivered up several key boards. baskets during
a good game, there
"There were a the second half 
were a lot offans
lot of big guys with his aggres­out there, so we there and they sive play. definitely Brown, who
seemed happy.,, 
expected that it joined the was going to be squad halfway [physical] going Mike Ortiz through the in," Mean Girls Mr. Bookstore 2007 tournament to captain Mike replace an Ortiz said. injured Richard "Down the Jackson, also stretch they just hit their pitched in with several points shots, and we didn't." of his own. 
Ortiz, who was named the "We were able to isolate 2007 Mr. Bookstore following Sergio on the wing, and he got the game, had no problems some big buckets from out­hitting shots throughout most side," Pogge said. of the game or the tourna­The Mean Girls were disap­ment. pointed to let the opportunity 
Team Castle Point took over slip away from them but said 5-1, Notre Dame made some mistakes that let Ohio State cut the lead to 7-5 by halftime. During the stretch, the Irish missed three one-on-one opportunities at the Buckeye end of the field and allowed Ohio State to recover and score on a play where the Notre Dame defense forced a ground ball. 
In the third quarter, Ohio State's Joel Dalgarno cut the Irish lead to one with 11:46 remaining in the third quarter, but Notre Dame's Ryan Cunn pushed the Irish lead back to two with 1:52 left in the period, and that would be as close as the Buckeyes would get. 
"We played well throughout, but we didn't finish everything well," Corrigan said. "We had some defensive plays that cost us some goals. We missed three one-on-one's at the offensive end. All of a sudden, it's 7-5 at halftime. In the second half, we dido 't make those mistakes." 
Notre Dame will finish its regular season next Saturday when it travels to Quinnipiac to try to clinch a perfect confer­ence record. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
the loss was bitter sweet since they had made it so far in the tournament. They made it to the championship by defeating the No. 1-seeded Kramer Properties 22-20 in a thrilling semifinal game Saturday. 
"I think we delivered a good game, there were a lot of fans there, and they seemed happy," Ortiz said about the loss. 
He is the only senior on the team and expects teammates Nick Possley, Rob Seery, Garret Flynn and Reuland to avenge their loss in next year's tournament. In order to do so, they will have to get through the Castle Point squad once again, who will return all five players next spring. 
The champs are sure to be a favorite on their quest to become the second straight back-to-hack champs, but Pogge wasn't willing to make any predictions yet. 
"It's hard to tell, the tourney is so hard to win, and it takes so long. It really just comes down to who hits the big shots when they need them." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 



Draft 
continued from page 20 
pick in a trade with the Dallas Cowboys. 
"Once I heard about the trade, I knew it was about me because of the rumors and the fact that the Browns called me," Quinn said. "They said that they were trading up for me and that was a pretty good indication. I couldn't have anticipated things working out the way they did." 
Quinn was the first of seven former Irish players selected during the two-day draft. 
On Saturday, defensive end Victor Abiamiri was chosen by the Philadelphia Eagles in the second round, and offensive tackle Ryan Harris was taken in the third round by the Denver Broncos. 
On Sunday, defensive tackle Derek Landri was selected by the Jacksonville Jaguars in the fifth round, cornerback Mike Richardson was taken by the New England Patriots in the sixth, and both guard Dan Santucci and safety Chinedum Ndukwe were drafted by the Cincinnati Bengals in the seventh round. 
Four other Notre Dame players -Darius Walker, Chris Frome, Rhema McKnight, and Marcus Freeman -signed free agent deals after going undrafted. 
With the No. 3 pick, the Browns took offensive tackle Joe Thomas out of Wisconsin. Miami picked Ohio State wide receiver Ted Ginn Jr. instead of Quinn at No. 9 -a decision that, accord­ing to published reports, caused boos to rain down at the Dolphins' draft-day pep rally. 
Quinn said the Browns warned him ahead of time they had decided on Thomas, but that he was surprised when Miami passed on him. 
"I was more shocked about the ninth pick. At the same time, you can't believe what everyone says to you because there are smoke screens that are put up," he said. "I knew about the Cleveland situ­ation going into it and I told everyone not to get their hopes up. I guess you really never know until it happens." 
After the Dolphins' selection, a series of teams with established quarterbacks picked in a row, meaning Quinn knew he had a long wait. NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell allowed the quar­terback to wait in a private room, rather than in. the main auditori­um, to avoid ESPN cameras. 
"I sat in Mr. Goodell's green room for a little bit and thought about possibilities," Quinn said. "It wasn't as much agonizing for me as it was on my family. They want the best for me and they always felt I would be drafted higher. Everything worked out in the end." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

S.Uurdly 
M.>yS 
11:00 -S:OO 
11 Galleries 
Cotf.lx AveRUI! omd lincoln Way W~t ArtsCotrKion: Downtown South Bend 
lr!WHU400or~('IUK~ 

Position opening: 
Ad manager 
(2007-2008 school year) 
Scholastic 
Stipend/Commissions pnid 
e-mail Scholast@nd.edu 
DUSTIN MENNELLNThe Observer 
Castle Point captain Paul Pogge crosses over at the top of the key during Sunday afternoon's Bookstore championship game. Castle Point beat Mean Girls 21-18 to win the tournament. 


ADAM FAIRHOLM

CROISSANTWORLD 
'fe:A~o~,l \NltMI.I>lcr
~"'ol.t-:rusT 
1'1"\ (:JoiN~
'jo. Wl-lATS 
f!.E.<:oM,...END
RePP "THE I 
To C::lo c..l4'f
l>ot.-lb; "TI-IAI.
THAI SNAPI'LE
WINNeR;. 
SAc.K.. OF A 
1"\'{S~ <"o
"TI-\E C.i4U!\(.I-\
CAp ~'/? 
SN.APPU: (#.

Jo~N WA\..":>1--\ 
AN\<.. '{OU FoR. 
-r\-\E MAN'{ 
HI \.."-(O!..la..AS (AND 
FoR SoME., 

UNPUb t-\SI-IAf>I-E. ) 
St.~E!.M\SStoNS. 
BLAcK DoG 
~. T11E.2£. l-IAS 6ffN Nr~THW~ IN 'IIIE'olf'rlWT T"HIS WEEK. No Fllolei-EJl-f'I:)IIJTUI~. ...,, C:.OI\I'fltt)~ 
JUIT A 1!>\JNl./-1 IIF LE-TTERS FJI:DM 
1\L.I.IMNI Mit> ARTIC..I.ES FJlDM OTHER ,SGH(I()LS' P.f.~. C..OVL.t:> 
IT I.E. TI-IAT Nl> STUDENT.S ~RE 
F1N/IllY TllrS> oF c::t>~P'LAIIIIINti? 
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
s~.-ex.P.
~~ER\"l..ES 
1'1"' 1>6 N--1'\"Tl.tEI-IAU:\,. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
YEAH, WH!., 6-ft.[ML..lN Olt NOT, '(011 
STil-L SHouL..t>N'T EAT AFTE!t 
Mlt>NIG--1-fT. UNLE.SS You wANT SoHE JuNK. lt.J THE. T~IJN~. 
LIAMMORAN 


~~!+!-f;.;.r 24 6\tW oompetltw 
·(J.iO. tnahi!!~ ·!J.~ 

ANSWER TO P'REVIOtiS PUZZLE 
62 'M.:otd that mat 
Ffm:»rh thn 
OO@il¥tin!J ·t'!t H-. :?11<. 42• ·1:4 til~ Aeroee: 
§3 r.b!!l OO!mrr.m t,:r(lp;. 11)11 
$.1 Vi'\OOJ)! ® AOL 
()(~rng 
!ClOWN 
t F!Brch c!l.lf!c 
2 C<lkfe., aa F111mftf o~ $ Sontry'%1 t<Cnlrm.u'KI 
4 MidemS! !!'Kpctrt 
!1 Throw in lhn IDWB! ·!1< Tlleal.&r dill.rk;'l 1 RaggEdy ­(dtW!s} 
S Filll!l difOOiM 
-Jrusm•_,. 
GOO!ltd 
l1 TwJbusly dliar:IU::. 
1oJ:g.zz'a H~rn:t"-"*: 
1)1' Mkwth 
11 ~ling 9Nll4! 
12 Stcad 
13 Sooators l".e1111!tdy IIDIJ 
StBVGrn~ 
18 E:~p!Oror $!1 
Fmocis 
~$ Appimd 
For an!iWern, call Nl<l0-285>5656. $1,00 a mi~~~Jte; or, ~h a credit eatd, t-~14-5554, 
AnrnMl ;.ub$~ i.n4t "ViOiil!.lbl• for ~ ~ of S~y 
tt~d!l from Ute l&st 50~-1-888-7-ACFIDSS, OnliM aib&~;rip4iom: Tooa)"~ pu~ .am !1"'Iftt titan 2,000 past ptilZies.. rtyli~MS.eotnletoe.swtlfda (S34.95 a yea~). 
Share1~: nytj!'flfi.~z:zl4f0f'Ulll. Cr~ fQf ¥001'9 ~s nytifnee.oom.Aeafnll\l}lt:Watdt. · 

Monday, April 30, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAM 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirio 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 
KYASH 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
OXMAI 
TARBUL 


WHEN HE WAS NAME:D "WATCH­MAKER OF THE YEAR," HE BEC.AME THE--­
TRIUNA 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answerhere: [ 


I I JrWE "[I I I]' 
(Answers tomorrow 

Jumbles: SWISH TRUTH LAVISH CRAFT Saturday's 
Answer: What the jockey said when the perennial also-ran won the race-THAT WAS A "FIRST' 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

...
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Jo O'Meara, 28; Andre Agassi, 37; Uma Thurman. 37; Jerry Seinfeld, 53 
Happy Birthday: You.may have to lqok outside your geographical location to get what you want. Ask yourself what it is you want. need and expect to see unfold this year and go from there. You can make emotional, financial and physical gains if you stick to your own game plan. Your numbers are 6. 17. 23. 30. 43. 46 
ARIES (March 2l·Aprill9): A new look will lead to compliments and the possibility of a little more attention than you are used to getting. Get out into your community and participate in events that will help you meet new people. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Get to the bottom of any troubles you have with older or younger friends or relatives. Someone is probably asking for help in all the wrong ways. You can pick up information that will help you with a financial project you've been working on, 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A creative idea you have will tum out to be beneficial financially. Someone will want to follow through and find out how you intend to move forward. An older relative will have something wise to offer. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may face some discord at home but that doesn't mean your day is a write-off. Get out with friends who appreciate your humor and your contributions. A look at something that interests you financially will be advantageous. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23"Aug. 22): Leave work or studies or whatever else is demanding on the table and plan to have a good time. Relax and forget your stresses. Take on a physical challenge and you will see your competitive side surface, leading you to the winner's circle. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Put in some extra hours on something that can bring you professional rewards. Trying to deal with personal issues will backfire. Get into an environment that makes you feel comfortable and free of worries and stress. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Emotions will be on the rise but that will help you discover what you can do to make things better. Travel if it will help you develop a creative skill or visit with someone you think you might be in love with. This is a great day to expand your circle of friends. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Utilize all your talents and show people what you are capable ofdoing. Network, if possible. This is a day for growth. expansion and development but don't let it cost you too much financially. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): There is plenty going on around you. Getting together with someone special will lead to the next phase in your relationship. Travel will not be in your best interest but having someone visit you at home will. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take a look at some of the problems you have had in the past. If someone you didn't see eye-to-eye with is trying to make a comeback, walk away. This isn't the day to waste time or revisit something that is no good for you. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Money is heading your way but don't let it slip through your fingers. Save a little for a rainy day. Love and romance are in the stars, so it may be time to talk about your intentions for .the future. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Check out the possibility of partnering with someone. No matter what you are pursuing. you will do better in a joint effort. A change of heart or a sudden alteration to your living arrangements is evident. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are talented, popular and have a creative spirit. You are unpredictable, adaptable and a true visionary. You are not afraid to travel into unfamiliar territory. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

, Uk8~ cootriltfiees 
. 6 Deslg!'h'ff Lavr~n t I l.. ul'lCh cr:mn1m sar1~ch tor ston 
t4 H:1~11 mcl!irt mail ~0$ Jl(l'JMrli.ll.'!'(IJ 
T5 lu;:..;:;<;h;1twn kJ 
nar<~shp 
16 Whr;<pf$lr 
t 7 SiriLDU& Mdelllit ijftf:o;.rf:alner 
I9 Wtivo~arne &l 
r(lfa!B~ 
1(0 F\;Jt~rk tg 
21 !IWII aeklt.e~ 
22 ~00•:1 COOI't4Jr 
:?4 F\;l:sw. WU!'m! fu!r a ftllutfil Mil 
;?!\ l!¥1 ';..· 111 DNA 
26 Chance. at •::atds 
31 (%1nJpa$3 Pill'! 
33 David SooQm;'s comic &eter 34 sprit){lllloon 's ·•Btsn"in '!tl$ ""'""'~ 

35 tlofi<r PaltMr, 
fmrniliarly 
26 Gi.,.llfl1he grooo b,JI'( 
37 f'E<tllo \ogOOien1 39 Gr.tmie. ca.ooar 40 1\ktw 'l'ear'e_ 41 'rn!ld 42 One •.my to fall 
in kl\\fl 
46 fJoatB!J :S·~~ 
47 I::A0<:1il:h(J1;'1~ 46 D~letw 
51 l\li1'i&i1it Arrb!#f 
52 4 'h\II'Kiut 1\.itttiBf 
S-5_ <:m.rl~ 
58 1-b& ilt tt F!lars Club e•.oeilt 
59 Che!l'S pif!'OO& 
!ll:l =--kslh (>Itt 
OO(o&fd) 
£1 Vibefi 
:~t Poot 'lt\lhil!'!!~!1 31 POOl Gogoon ~· Stm!l~l <:!I Mia 
Gmalt..~ 
36· f>il:lB!IA futtur9 
37 Moo~ tfla{J phn11!4 
S!.J. Ctxl)-_ (JXJr~Ml 
41• o\~t,lll1 one'~; 
~11.$ 
1arnily 
4& •IX. &!~Yt "­~arsaWt~r 
43 Gertla'S hOWl& 
4& ~er aherMIJve; 
WILLSHORTZ 
(!If To;~ btL in -u!Q HDft)iii 
52 Gi!lel!le ·-Plutt 
St! Prell:.: •.-ilh g,_?d 54 ®wd a.lt•w:l 
51 Really t•f tf.uty; e,g.~ .t.b!;w:· 
se v~aJ.;mrt 
fu!und!:lr Willkln 
-
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, April 30, 2007 
page 20 
fOOTBALL 
D-Day 
Quinn and six other Irish players selected in the 2007 NFL Draft 
By CHRIS KHOREY 
Sports Editor 
Brady Quinn waited a little longer than he expected to, before he heard his name called in Saturday's National Football League Draft. 
The former Notre Dame quar­terback was unexpectedly passed over by both the Cleveland Browns at pick No. 3 and the Miami Dolphins at pick No. 9. Both teams had expressed interest in making him a top-1 0 first-round selection, but instead, Quinn fell to No. 22, where the Browns finally ended his nearly three-hour wait. 

• 
''I'm so excited to be in Cleveland and this is a dream come true for me," Quinn, an Ohio native, said in a teleconfer­ence Saturday. "Things were tough the way they started out, but I think it worked out the best way it could have." 
Cleveland received the 22nd 

see DRAFT/page 18 MADELINE NIES!The Observer 

WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
NDousted in Big East se111ifinals 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Sports Writer 
The first-ever Big East championship was one No. 12 Notre Dame would rather for­get. The fourth-seeded Irish dropped their third-straight match Friday, a furious come­back ending just short in a 12­10 loss to No. 1 seed Georgetown in the semifinals. 
The Irish, who had defeated the Hoyas at home during the regular season 13-8, fell behind early in the first half when Georgetown scored the first four goals. The Irish gained some ground midway through the first half with goals by junior Caitlin McKinney and sophomore Jane Stoeckert, 
The lloyas countered quickly however, when senior captain Coco Stanwick scored two goals for a 6-2 lead. Sophomore Mary Carpenter and McKinney responded with 
see HOYAS/page 17 


MEN'S LACROSSE BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXVI 
Irish clinch GWLL Castle Point cro"Wned cha111pions 
Big crowd watches as No.3 seed
against Buckeyes captures Bookstore Basketball title 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sports Editor 
Team Castle Point was crowned kings of the Bookstore court Sunday afternoon with a 21-18 victory over Mean Girls. 
Sophomore Pat Kuntz banked in the final hoop of the tournament after being fouled down low by one of the Mean Girls. Fouls proved to be the difference maker in Castle Point's win as they hit three huge baskets from the charity stripe to close out the game. 
"We didn't get all the calls we were looking for, but thankfully we got enough to help us out at the end," Castle Point captain Paul Pogge said. 
Rebounds and physical play gave Castle Point 
see CHAMPS/page 18 

Top, Castle Point's Robby Parris drives during Sunday's 
for the Irish as well as the By GREG ARBOGAST league's automatic Tournament championship game. Right,
Sports Writer 

bid. "Last year, we kind of snuck Konrad Reuland dishes a passThe Irish are headed back to in," senior miilfielder Lucius 
the NCAA Tournament, and Polk said. "If we're 11-3, we're to the corner from his spot in 
this time, they're doing it on going to the tournament any­

their own terms. way, but it's nice to be going to the low post.After qualifying for last year's the tournament this year with a 
NCAA Tournament as one of higher seed." 
the final at-large teams, No. 10 With the way Notre Dame has • 

Notre Dame gained an auto­played recently, it is making a PHOTOS BY matic bid to this year's tourna­strong case to the selection ment with a 12-6 victory over committee for one of the top DUSTIN MENNELLA No. 20 Ohio State that secured seeds in the tournament. After the 2007 Greater Western Lacrosse League (GWLL) title see TOURNEY/page 18 





