----------------------~ 

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 56 WEDNESDAY. NOVEMBER 28,2007 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Members examine ticket exchange 
Student government, Ticket Office in talks to modify recently-discontinued program 
By JOSEPH McMAHON News Writer 
The Council of Representatives discussed alternative ways to con­duct football ticket nxchanges at their meeting Tuesday. 
The Ticket Office discon­tinued the basic program this year of allowing a des­ignated number of students to exchange for a fee their student ticket for a general 
admission ticket. It cited abuses of the system, including scalping of tick­ets, as a reason to end the program. This year, stu­dents were able to enter a lottery for the ability to exchange their USC tickets because that game occurred over fall break. 
But student government approached the Ticket Office and began talks to bring back the option of exchanging student passes for general admission tick­ets, student body vice president Maris Braun said Tuesday. 

"It's pretty unique having. a ticket office that is very dedicated to giving the stu­dent body as many chances to see the team as they possibly can," Braun said. 
She said the Ticket Office was cooperative when the Student Union Board organized a ticket exchange for the Oct. 20 game against USC -an exception that was allowed 
because, the Ticket Office reasoned, many students would be leaving Notre Dame for fall break. 
"The Ticket Office was really pleased with the stu­dent-run exchange," Braun said. "In the future we should look to other stu­dent organizations like student government and some of the class councils to organize it." 
COR members, however, 
see TICKETS/page 3 


Fonner Iraq advisor evaluates U.S. policy 
Stanford scholar says sudden withdrawal would be as 'arrogant' as 2003 invasion 
By DAVIS RHORER Jr. 
News Writer 
There is no more politically charged, national security question than the direction of Iraq, said Larry Diamond, a political science professor at Stanford University. 
Diamond, a former senior advisor on governance for the Coalition Provisional Authority in Baghdad, began his lecture Tuesday night in the Hesburgh Center with his reflections on the foundations of the war. He then discussed the current sit­uation for both Iraqi civilians and American soldiers. 
In 2004, Diamond was invit­ed by then-U.S. National Security Advisor and former colleague Condoleezza Rice to assist in the transition to democracy in Iraq. Initially scheduled to stay in the coun­try for six months, a discour­aged Diamond left after only three. 
"We were failing in Iraq from the ineptitude, arrogance, incompetence and isolation from reality and knowledge of Iraqi society," he said. 
Diamond's criticisms, which focused heavily on the unilat­eral nature with which he felt the Bush administration han­dled the engagement, eventu­ally shifted towards current obligations the United States has in the war-torn state. 
"We can't just indiscrimi­nately walk away," Diamond said. "It would be a mistake to get out of Iraq with as little thought, as little planning and as much arrogant indifference as the manner in which we went in." 
But not everything Diamond 
see IRAQ/page 3 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Hallsjustify different annual fees 
lZectors: IJorms'needs call for tailored deposits 
By KATIE PERALTA AND JOHN TIERNEY 
News Writers 
A Notre Dame education costs 
more than $45,000 per year, 
but the hall tax fee included in 
that bill varies significantly 
from dorm to dorm. 
For example, freshman resi­
dents of Badin hall paid $100 
before moving in this year, 
while the men of Sorin paid 
$40. 
The taxes vary from dorm to 
dorm because each residence 
hall has the freedom to choose 
the housing deposit that will 
meet the dorm's needs for the 
year. Residence halls with high­
er taxes generally are able to 
provide more activities and 
supplies for free during the 
year. 
In the case of Badin, a small 
dorm population -just 123 
women -caused the dorm to 
ask more from each resident. 
"The smaller the number of 
residents, the [greater] need 
for a higher tax," said Badin 
rector Denise Lyon. Badin 
upperclassmen pay a $75 fee to 
help cover the hall's activities 
and expenses throughout the 
year, which include dorm din­
ners, other events, decorations 
and items for common use. 
Badin recently purchased a set 
of weights using hall tax funds, 
Lyon said. 
As in most dorms, freshmen 
pay a higher hall tax to cover 
freshman orientation activities. 
Though the Office of Student 
Accounts Web site uses a $50 
see TAX/page 4 

Senior takes first in Mazda challenge, showcases design 
By THERESA CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
While most Notre Dame stu­dents watched football and ate turkey last weekend, sen­ior Mallory McMorrow took the spotlight at the L.A. Auto Show as the winner of Mazda's nationwide car­designing competition. 
An industrial design stu­dent, McMorrow submitted a sketch and a 150-word state­ment to the Mazda Design Challenge without thinking her vision of a 2018 compact sports car would win the top prize. But it did -and her vision evolved from a paper sketch to a full-scale clay 
model at the L.A. Auto Show, which ran from Nov. 16-25. "I had no idea I would win," McMorrow said. 
The competition, aimed at college students, asked par­ticipants to imagine the Mazda3 of 2018 and accepted proposals from Sept. 25 to Oct. 12. McMorrow said they received 400 entries. The Mazda Design Team of North America "voted and hand­picked the top 10 ideas," according to the competition's official Facebook group. These finalists were announced Oct. 16 and the online voters narrowed them down to five by the end of the month. 
McMorrow and the other four designers then worked with the Mazda Design Team to produce a final sketch of the 2018 Mazda3 for the final round of voting. McMorrow's win was announced Nov. 6. 

"The voting was all on Facebook," she said. 
As part of her prize, Mazda flew McMorrow to California to attend the L.A. Auto Show, where she worked with Franz von Holzhausen -director of design for Mazda North American Operations -and his team to turn her design into a full-scale clay model. The model was unveiled Nov. 24. 
"This was the first time a 
see MAZDA/page 4 


INSIDE COLUMN 


For the love of the game 
There arn li1w sound-; in thb world more 
satisfying tJum the sound of a ping pong 
ball landing in a Solo cup. 
Pong, as it known f(Jr short, requires 
minute precision and impeccable hand-eye 
coordination. 
It a.Jso requires Tae Andrews 
tmunwork lit's a 
two-on-two game Scene Editor 
and you nned both 
people to pull their 
weight to accomplish the sought-after 
"sendbaek"), strategy (the que!>i.ion of"to 
bounee, or not to bounm") and <UI unyield­
ing commitment to excellenr,e, many of the 
virtues espoused at Notre Dame. 
It is for these masons I nominate Beer 
Pong as tJm National Collegiate Pastime. 
College liKJtba.IJ, as we've alllimnd out 
thb year, has ilc; ups and downs. Baseball, 
<L<; ~-,rreat of a gam11 ac; it ic;, donsn 't start until 
spring and can be really slow. Bner pong, 
not soccer, ic; the Beautiful Game. 
I'll have none of that llip eup garbage. 
Any gmnn which h<L<; a nickmune of "llippy 
cup" and ic; greeuld by the cheers of hyster­
ical ~-,rirlc; a.llnr a victory hac; no merit lbr 
induetion <L<; the national collegiat.P. pac;time. 
Furthermore, pong encourages drinking 
in m1K.Ieration. That's right. 
You see, unlike flip cup, which has no 
ma.l point other thm1 going pedal-1.1>-the­
mlll.al on ini.IJxication highway, pong hac; a 
v11ry simple !>)'Stllm of1:heck.s and balances 
desigmld 1.1> curb exctlSsive drinking. 
Ac; in m1y playoll'!>'}'Stllm limturing single­
los.c; elimination, pong carries with it the 
imnuldi<u:y ofilc; "win or go home" diK:­
trine. 
/\s with the linn art of initiating dialo~-,rue 
witl1 limmlllS, alcohol consumption helps 
tl1e pong player-up until a point. 
Ijquid mura){ll c<mlmlp one wax elo­
quent or make it rain on the pong table, 
until said player in either game reach1lS a 
point I like 1.11 mil "critical mac;s," a point of 
no rntum after whieh the game ofthP per­
son in qullStion takllS a sharp tum tbr the 
WOTht. 
Quartllrs, king;, shol.f.,running, the ever­
so-popular "drink the beer"-while each 
hac; ilc; own merits, none of these have the 
same appeal as pong and require no real 
talenlc; other than a high tolerance. 
Furthermore, pong hac; bec-Ome a nation­
wide phenomenon, !>Weeping across the 
nation's mllegllS with awesome alacrity. 
Depending on where you play, the game 
hm> dill(mmt rules and variations, including 
"Pull Contad," a version in which every ball 
that rinK:hnlc; oO'the tabln becomes "live." 
Thn playnr who ean sueeessfully recover 
theli.Jmbln and emerge from the pile, ball 
in h<md, is awardtld another shot. 
Anothnr popular twic;t ic; thn "NBA Jam" 
rule, in whieh a player declares that hie; or 
hnr partnnr ic; "heating up" alter three con­
secutive maims, fllSulting in that player 
sh1K1ting until hn or she mL<;StlS. 
Pong ic; also a gnnder-inclusive ganJe, 
providing a common dause lhr women to 
mntribut11 by virtun of their ability to blow a 
ball around the int11rior of a eup out. 
Furthnrmore, pong diKlS not di'il'.riminatll 
againc;t people by virtue of their athletie tal­
ent or physical pmwess (or lac:k thereoO. 
Many Booksu>rn ba.c;kntball teams are 
diK>mlld to m1 embarrao.;sing failure from 
the oul<;~Jt by mere virtue of being short or 
slow. Pong providllS a level playing field (lit­
erally) for all players of all ereedc;. It is the 
great equalu.er. 
For thnstl ma<;~mc;, and many mom not 
nnumerauld hem, pong ic; the sport of 
king;. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tan drew 1 @nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at63I-4541 so we can correct our error. 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, November 28, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE SONG ON THE RADIO AND WHY? 




Javier Soegaard  Brandon Boston  Claire Laurentius  
sophomore Carroll  freshman O'Neill  senior Cavanaugh  
'"Dimeto [The  "'Cyclone'  '"0 Holy Night'  
Ping Pong  because I like to  because it's the  
Song]' because  dance."  best Christmas  
now people will  song.  
believe I'm  
actually  
Hispanic. "  

r-fY(J~
~' ~ 
~ 




Jason Wittenbach  Kevin Kimberly  Matt Medlock  
senior Stanford  freshman O'Neill  senior offcampus  
'"Cupcake Girl' because it was  '"Bartender' by T-Pain because  '"Mete Kalikimaka'  
written by the second sweetest musician ever.  that's what I want to be when I grow up.  because the best way to spread Christmas cheer is by singing loud for all to  
hear."'  

IN BRIEF 
Mass will be celebrated in the Alumni Hall Chapel at 5 p.m. Friday for the Feast of St. 1\.ndrew. The Gregorian Schola will sing Gregorian chant. 
The Notre Dame hockey team will play Nebraska-Omaha Friday at 7:35 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
The Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orehestra will present Handel's Messiah Friday at 8 
p.m. in Leighton Concert Hall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tiekets ean be ordered by calling ticket office at (574) 631-2800. 
As part of the Solidarity film series, there will be a screening of the film "We are Together" in the Debartolo Performing Arts Center Friday at 10 p.m. The film foeuses on the story of the children of the /\gape Orphanage as they overcome the adversity of growing up among Afriea's 12 million AIDS orphans. 
The Voices of Faith Gospel Choir will preform their fall con­cert, "Come Back to Your First Love" Saturday at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
Habitat for Humanity will host "A Home for the Holidays" Sunday from 3:30 to 8 p.m. in the Stepan Center. Groups of students can register online to build a gingerbread house. The cost of registration ranges from $30 to $50 per group, depending on size of the house. There will also be performances, entertain­ment and food to raise money for the organization. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 
0 

HIGH 37 HIGH 33 LOW 19 LOW 18 

Ga. man tries to deposit fake $1 million bill 
AIKEN, S.C. -A bank teller in Clearwater had a million reasons not to open an account for an Augusta, Ga., man Monday, authori­ties said. Alexander D. Smith, 31, was charged with disorderly conduct and two counts of forgery after he walked into the bank and tried to open an account by depositing a fake $1 million bill, said Aiken County Sheriff's spokesman Lt. Michael Frank. 
The employee refused to open the account and ealled police while the man started to curse at bank workers, Frank said. 
TODAY 
a: 
The second forgery charge came after investi­gators learned Smith bought several cartons of cigarettes from a nearby grocery store with a stolen check, Frank said 
Judge removed over cell phone jailing 
NIAGARA FALLS, N.Y.­A judge who jailed 46 peo­ple who were in his court­room when a cell phone call interrupted proceed­ings was removed from the bench Tuesday by a state commission. 
Niagara Falls City Court Judge Robert Restaino "snapped" and "engaged in what can only be described as two hours of inexplicable madness" during the March 2005 session, Raoul Felder, chairman of the state Commission on Judicial Conduct, wrote in the deci­sion to remove Restaino fwm the $113,900-per­year post. 

A phone rang while Restaino was hearing the cases of domestic violence offenders who had been ordered to appear weekly to update the judge on the progress of their counsel­ing. A sign in the court­house warns that cell phones and pagers must be turned oft'. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
1.&.1 :::1: 
~ 
1.&.1 
3: 
..... 
ct 
(.) 
0 

..... HIGH 45 
LOW 30 
HIGH 40 LOW 25 
HIGH 35 HIGH 37 LOW 25 LOW 22 
Atlanta 65 I 44 Boston 46 I 38 Chicago 39 I 31 Denver 43 I 20 Houston 60 I 40 Los Angeles 75 I 52 Minneapolis 36 I 31 New York 51 f 40 Philadelphia 56 f 42 Phoenix 65 f 51 Seattle 41 f 33 St. Louis 43 f 36 Tampa 83 f 69 Washington 60 f 45 
.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, November 28, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Tickets 
continued from page 1 
suggested making further 
revisions to the process in which the exchanges could be con­ducted if the program were reinstated. 
The USC exchange this year had stu­dents entering a lottery for a chance to exchange their tickets. But the selected entries were not noti­fied they had won until a week before the game. 
Such short notice doesn't give students' 
friends or relatives enough time to plan a trip to Notre Dame, several COR mem­bers said. 
"I wanted to exchange a ticket for a friend, but I didn't find out until a week before that I had won the lottery, so it ended up not working out," said Kadeja Gaines, treasurer of the 
Student Union Board and a Georgia native. 
Because it is so difficult to find a reasonable plane ticket a few days before the expected departure date, 
"It's pretty unique having a ticket office that is very dedicated to giving the student body as many chances to see the team as [it] possibly can." 
Maris Braun student body vice president 
outside 
several COR members suggested holding the lotteries several weeks in advance. 
"The pur­pose of the program is to get sib­lings out to games and if you live far 
away  you  
won't  be  
able  to  get  
them  out  

[here] with too little notice," sen­ior class 
vice president Chris Doughty said. 
To counter fears that stu­dents would use this extra time to sell the tickets for a profit, Doughty suggested that the name of the person the student is buying the ticket for be printed on it. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 


Iraq 
continued from page 1 
said was negative. 
Diamond cited a recent improvement in safety levels for civilians in the streets of Baghdad, a development he credited to the recent influx, or "surge," of troops and new military strategies adopted by the American armed forces. 
"[There] is a new sense of hope and possibilities and a return to something approaching normalcy in many communities," Diamond said. 
In addition to with a recent release by ing the United States "cannot Osama bin Laden, where the do it alone" when it comes to terrorist leader confirmed the Iraq. Allied support from change in sentiment in the regional neighbors and the 
these changes 7There] is a new to be 
region and talked about his organiza­tion's "loss of the hearts and minds" of the Iraqi people, Diamond said. 
And while Iraq is doing better in that regard, the situation is still precarious, he said. 
"I fear that that the current surge with all its manifest hope for progress could prove 
"Unless we threaten to pull the rug out from under [the Iraqi representatives] we'll not agree to [internal] compromises." 
Larry Diamond Stanford University 
European Union, Diamond said, is essential to ending the cur­rent con­flict. 
Diamond also firmly criticized the provi­sional Iraqi gov­ernment and called 

... a in the sense ofhope liant, inspiring in the country. American mili­moment of pos­"Unless we threaten to pull
and possibilities and 
tary presence, sibility that cru­the rug out from under [the Diamond also a return to elly slips away," Iraqi representatives] we'II noted the something Diamond said. not agree to [internal] com­recent crip­"Only if we cap­promises," he said, referring
approaching
pling of al­italize on the to the current American Qaeda in the normalcy in many military gains in financial and military support region as fruit communities." the past few of what he considers a highly of the U.S. months with a corrupt and partisan parlia­intervention. political strate­ment.
Larry Diamond 
"The Sunni gy to settle big Diamond's lecture was spon­Arab heartland Stanford University political differ-sored by the Kellogg Institute of Iraq has had ences . . . can we for International Studies and its fill of the stand a decent the Kroc Institute for ruthlessness and intimidation chance of avoiding that fate." International Peace Studies. of al-Qaeda and wants them He concluded his lecture by gone," Diamond said. repeating the same piece of Contact Davis Rhorer Jr. 
He backed up his assertion advice he once gave Rice, say-at drhorer@nd.edu 
bril­it a barrier to future successes 
MAKE UP FOR ALACK OF IMAGINATION, WITH GOOD TASTE. 

The Chipotle gift card. 
Load them up from 
$10 to $250. 
AClUALL~.lHE G\f1 DOES COUNT. 

MAIN & DOUGLAS 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 28, 2007 
Tax 
continued from page 1 
deposit to projeet total hcllls­ing eosts for prospnctivH stu­dents. it does say thn hall tax is subjeet to ehange. 
At $90, th11 freshman Carroll llall rnsidents pay thH highest hall tax of' any men's residenee hall on eampus, with upperclassmen in the same dorm paying $10 less every year. ThH Carroll fresh­men, howevnr. reeeivn a hall shirt in return for thnir addi­tiomtl paynwnt. 
And though other male dorms on eampus may have lownr hall taxns, Carroll does not require its residents to pay for danees, food for game watelw s, h a II go v e r nm P.n t 11xpenses, receptions or other programs, aeeording to Carro II rtH: tor Father J i m Lnwis. 
Tlw dorm also subsidizes seetion-and hall-widP. pro­grams, such as movies at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center and paintballing, Lewis said. 
Hesidnnts of Alumni and Morrissey flails also pay $SO to the dorm. Neither Hall charges residents for hall events such as dances but in dorms like Keenan and Siegfried. where the hall tax is betwe1m $50 and $60, resi-



CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 

dents have to eover dance 
fees themselves. 

That is also the ease for the residents of Sorin College. While Sorin residents enjoy the lowest hall tax of any dorm on campus --$40 every year --they must pay to attend the dorm's dances. The Sorin danee earlier this semester eame with a $15 price tag per couple, Sorin rector Father Jim King said. 
llowever, the dorm does pay for food for game watches, study days and a cookout on football Fridays, King said. The dorm has been ablf1 to save its residents $20 thanks to financial assistance from former residents at its annual alumni reunion, King said. 
Lyons Hall also charges its freshmen more than its other residents --$60 for first-year students versus $50 for soph­mnores, juniors and seniors-­to help pay for the events dur­ing orientation. 
"The extra $10 for the freshmen goes to eover the expnnses of Frosh-0, which are considerable," Lyons rec­tor Denise McOsker said. "And lthe Lyons] llall Council is thinking about raising the freshman rate to $70 next year." 
Lyons's tax funds cover such expenses as the dorm's print­ing and mailing costs, inter­hall sports fees and exercise equipment. 
"While we also charge a nominal fee for dance tickets and hall apparel," McOsker said, "it would be consider­ably more if we didn't have hall taxes to subsidize the cost of food, music, ballroom space, etc. for the dances and the cost and printing of the T­shirts, sweats, etc." 
Most dorms divide housing deposit funds among different committees. 
At Pasquerilla East, the res­idents' $50 fees are spread across the different eommit­tees that take care of dances, hall council proceedings, mul­ticultural gatherings and Big Sister/Little Sister events, among other aetivities. 
"Each commission gets a budget to host different events in the lPasquerilla Eastl com­munity," Pasquerilla East rec­tor Breyan Tornifolio said. 
Breen-Phillips tapped into its hall tax fund to purchase a nnw treadmill last year, said Breen-Phillips rector Hachel Kellogg. 
And with the upcoming holi­day season, she and other rectors (from both male and female dorms) said hall tax funds will be used to buy gifts for housekeeping personnel and snacks for students dur­ing exam week. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu and John Tierney at jtierney@nd.edu 
THE CORE COUNCIL FOR GAY AND LESBIAN 
STUDENTS IS SEEKING 
NEW UNDERGRADUATE STUDENT 
MEMBERS 
FOR 2008-2009 
We welcome both "allies" and gay, lesbian or bi-sexual students. 
Applications are available on the Core Council Web Site: 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu 
or can be picked up from The Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building Bam to 5pm Monday-Friday 
Completed Applications are due 
Monday,December3by5pm 
in the Office of Student Affairs 
Your participation in this Council will: 
• 
Assist with identifying the ongoing needs ofgay, lesbian andbi-sexual students 

• 
Assist in implementing campus-wide educational programming on gay and lesbian issues 


Please visit our web site for more information: http://corecouncil.nd.edu 

Mazda 
continued from page 1 
car company ever designed a car live at an auto show," she said. "We built a full-scale model out of clay in front of everyone. One kid asked if the car was made of chocolate." 
The clay model lacked an interior, showing that "they were looking at shape, propor­tion, exterior features --not really at an inside at all," MeMorrow said. 
Winning the competition is a big step toward her eareer goals, she said. 
"It's a big deal... I think it will help a lot," McMorrow said. 
That career may begin with the internship Mazda offered her following her performance at the L.A. Auto Show. 
"They're holding up a spot for me," she said. 
But she shared her victory with the entire design depart­ment, saying that though Notre Dame is not famous for its achievements in industrial design, she is convinced her liberal arts education prepared her for the challenge. 
"I think the liberal arts at Notre Dame helped me come out first," she said. "Mazda really wanted to get strong ideas rather than just flashy drawing. They wanted sub­
stance, not just a kid who can 
draw." 
She said she doesn't think her original sketch of the design is what garnered her the top spot. 
"Just based on the 2-D design, I don't think I would have made it," McMorrow said. 
What made her an outstand­ing participant, she said, must have been the strength of her essay. 
And maybe her gender, she said. 
"IThe fact I'm a womanl impacted the way a lot of pPo­ple looked at me ... I hadn't really realized it, but there's still a stigma." 
Her trip to Calil"ornia shownd McMorrow there is a big mar­ket for f11male car designers. 
"It felt rPally eool having these little girls come up to me saying, 'I love drawing cars!' and having a girl say I was her inspiration," McMorrow said. 
She said the competition was internationally publicized in places likn India and China, getting her the kind of expo­sure she could not have found at Notre Dame. 
"This was a random, open competition, nothing to do with Notre Dame ... one thing I learned from this is, take advantage of outside opportu­nities," McMorrow said. 
Contact Theresa Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 


:ffiadrigal 
<Ouistmas !JBinners 
Fri. and Sat, Nov. 30 and Dec. 1 at 7 P.M. Sat. and Sun., Dec. 1 and Dec. 2 at 2 P.M. in Regina North Lounge 
Madrigal singers from Saint Mary's College, along with period instruments, jugglers, jesters and a Master of the House entertain rovallv 
during a feast fit for a king or quee~! ­
Adult tickets are $30 and $.~5, and 512 for children 12 and unde1: 
-f!i­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME. IN 
For tickets call (574) 284-4626. MoreauCenter.com 
\ I 
,, As You Wish 11 

I mport S ; -g~ I\ 
Lafortut1e ~

SfERLIN(} SILVER!!! 
Sorit1 Roottt (1st FIJ

f APES fRY WALL HANIHNC.S! 
Nov. 26 -Vee. 1 !Satl 

V._N.JQ..V..LfiA.P.I.V...Jl.W...HKY..!.. 11 ~5 ptM
Mot'l. ~ Fri. eves

Purses•Scarves •~ift lf'etMs 
7:50~ 1OptM [~~···~ ~ _to!l'flta ~J -------­
M e r e dr' bIe pr (1 e e s I 
Proceed> from tho sale> of jewelry guarantee the

1
r I • hands of Guatamalan rami lies 3 time!-their 3\'Cragc
ut1ique christtttas ~ifts! ••lary. as well'" lund> forlhcircducntion. 
Sponsored by Student Activies Office 


ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, November 28, 2007 CorvU'llED FRO;\\ THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Stadium to be razed after collapse 
RIO DE JANEIHO, Brazil-The soccer sta­dium where seven people died after the stands collapsed will be destroyed and a new one will be built in its place. 
At least 40 others were injured Sunday night in Salvador, a coastal city of Bahia state. The accident was the worst in Brazilian soccer history and raised questions about the country's readiness to host the 2014 World Cup. 
Gov. Jacques Wagner said Tuesday the Fonte Nova stadium will be imploded. He did not give a timetable for the demolition, but the new stadium is expected to be completed by 2014. 
Musharraf to end military career 
ISlAMABAD, Pakistan -Pervez Musharraf will retire as chief of Pakistan's army at mid­week, his aides announced Monday as the embattled leader grappled with a political scene roiled by the return of an exiled former prime minister in time for crucial January elec­tions. 
Nawaz Sharif, who was ousted by the 1999 coup that put Musharraf in power, quickly reg­istered Monday to run in the election although he didn't drop his call for a boycott that could undermine the ballot's legitimacy. 
Sharif appealed for support from Pakistanis unhappy with Musharraf's U.S. alliance, por­traying himself as a politician who kept himself at arms length from Washington in contrast to the U.S.-friendly stance of the president and the other key opposition leader, Benazir Bhutto. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Somalian gets prison for mall plot 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -A Somali immigrant was sentenced to 10 years in prison Tuesday for plotting to blow up an Ohio shopping mall with a man later convicted of being an al-Qaida terrorist. 
Nuradin Abdi, a cell phone salesman before his arrest, pleaded guilty in July to conspiring to provide material support for terrorists. He will be deported to Somalia after serving the federal sentence. 
In a 20-minute statement to the court, Abdi's attorney Mahir Sherif said his client apologized to the people of the United States, the people of Ohio and the Muslim community. He said Abdi regretted that his conviction might lead to problems for other Muslims. 
Hurricane predictions were wrong 
MIAMI -Despite alarming predictions, the U.S. came through a second straight hurricane season virtually unscathed, rais­ing fears among emergency planners that they will be fighting public apathy and over­confidence when they warn people to pre­pare for next year. 
Friday marks the official close of the Atlantic season, so unless a storm forms in the next few days, only one hurricane -and a minor one at that-will have hit the U.S. during the June-to-November period. Mexico and Central America, however, were struck by a record two top-scale Category 5 storms. 
The preliminary total for the season: 14 named storms, five of them hurricanes, two of them major. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Man charged with stealing aircraft 
LAPORTE, Ind. -A LaPorte man has been arrested for commandeering a twin-engine plane and driving it off the taxiway into a bean field. 
Police arrested 38-year-old Michael Santos, charging him with theft and criminal mischief. It was unclear whether Santos had a pilot's license. 
Officers were called to LaPorte Municipal Airport in northern Indiana on Sept. 9 after the plane was found in the field, covered with soy­beans chopped up by the propeller. The pilot apparently was unable to negotiate a curve lead­ing to the runway. 
An airport official says fog concealed the thief's identity from the surveillance cameras. Santos remains in custody in the LaPorte County Jail. 
FRANCE 

Youth riots cripple Parisian suburb 
Third night of restlessness includes violent clashes as rioters begin using firearms 
Associated Press 

VILLIERS-LE-BEL Youths rampaged for a third night in the tough suburbs north of Paris and violence spread to a southern city late Tuesday as police struggled to contain rioters who have burned cars and buildings and -in an ominous turn ­shot at officers. 
A senior police union offi­cial warned that "urban guerrillas" had joined the unrest, saying the vio­lence was worse than during three weeks of rioting that raged around French cities in 2005, when firearms were rarely used. 
Bands of young people set more cars and garbage bins on fire in Villiers-le-Bel, the Paris suburb where the latest trouble first erupted, and a grocery store was torched in a nearby town, the regional government said. In the south, 10 cars and a library went up in flames in Toulouse, police said. 
The government was striv­ing to keep violence from spreading in a stern test for new President Nicolas Sarkozy. It showed that anger still smolders in France's poor neighbor­hoods, where many Arabs, blacks and other minorities live largely isolated from the rest of society. 
The trigger was the deaths ing cars into them. ing back out -boom, boom There have long been ten­Sunday of two minority teens More police moved in -and firing again," said sions between France's when their motorscooter col­Tuesday trying to prevent a Gilles Wiart, No. 2 official in largely white police force and lided with a police car in third night of rioting, as offi­the SGP-FO police union. the ethnic minorities trapped Villiers-le-Bel, a blue-collar cials sought to keep the Youths, many of them Arab in poor neighborhoods. town on Paris' northern upheaval from spreading to and black children of immi­Despite decades of prob­edge. other impoverished areas as grants, again appeared to be lems and heavy state invest­
Residents claimed the offi­happened two years ago. lashing out at police and ments to improve housing 
cers left without helping the Patrice Ribeiro of the other targets seen to repre­and create jobs, the 
teens. Prosecutor Marie­Synergic police union said sent a French establishment depressed projects that ring 
Therese de Givry denied that, rioters this time included they feel has left them Paris are a world apart from 
saying police stayed on the "genuine urban guerrillas," behind. the tourist attractions of the 
scene until firefighters saying the use of firearms -"I don't think it's an ethnic capital. Police speak of no-go 
arrived. hunting shotguns so far -problem," Wiart said. "Most zones where they and fire­
Rioting and arson erupted had added a dangerous of all it is youths who reject fighters fear to patrol. Sunday night, with youths dimension. all state authority. They "The problem of bad rela­attacking a police station. Police said 82 officers were attack firefighters, eve'rything tions between the police and The violence worsened injured Monday night, 10 of that represents the state." minorities is underestimat­Monday night as it spread them by buckshot and pel­Suspicion of the police runs ed," said criminologist from Villiers-le-Bel to other lets. Four were seriously high among people in the Sebastian Roche. impoverished suburbs north wounded, the force said. drab housing project where Sarkozy, speaking from of the French capital. Rioters Police unions said 30 officers the two teenagers died in the China, appealed for calm and burned a library, a nursery were struck by buckshot. crash. The boys were identi­called a security meeting school and a car dealership One rioter with a shotgun fied in French media only by with his Cabinet ministers for and tried to set some build­"was firing off two shots, their first names, Lakhami, Wednesday on his return ings on fire by crashing burn-reloading in a stairwell, com-16, and Mouhsin, 15. home. 

Israel, Palestine agree to resUine peace talks 
good-faith bilateral negotiations in order lenged by the militant Hamas movement. 
Associated Press to conclude a peace treaty resolving all And the task is complicated by Arab outstanding issues, including all core pressure to resolve other long simmering ANNAPOLIS, Md. -Israeli and issues without exception, as specified in disputes Israel has with Syria and Palestinian leaders agreed Tuesday to previous agreements," it said. Lebanon. immediately resume long-stalled talks "We agree to engage in vigorous, ongo­Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al­toward a deal by the end of next year ing and continuous negotiations and Faisal, in his remarks to the conference, that would create an independent shall make every effort to conclude an called for the earliest possible resump­Palestinian state, using a U.S.-hosted agreement before the end of 2008," said tion of talks with Lebanon and Syria, Mideast peace conference to launch their the document, which was reached after which wants the return of the Golan first negotiations in seven years. weeks of intense diplomacy and was Heights, land seized by Israel during the In a joint statement read by President uncertain until just before Bush 1967war. Bush, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud announced it. Bush, in his address, defended the Olmert and Palestinian President The conference at the U.S. Naval decision to hold the Annapolis confer­Mahmoud Abbas pledged to start discus­Academy has been greeted by heavy ence, saying it was the right time to sions on the core issues of the conflict skepticism, with many questioning its launch peace talks and urging represen­next month and accepted the United timing and prospects for success, espe­tatives of more than 50 participating States as arbiter of interim steps. cially given the weaknesses of Olmert countries and organizations to support "We agree to immediately launch and Abbas, whose leadership is chal-the effort. 
page 6 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, November 28, 2007 
SYRIA 

After violence slows, Iraqi refugees return home 
With decrease in extremist attacks, unstable government says it's safe to come back; many others aren't so sure 
buses that would carry about 
Associated Press 

800 refugees to the border. 
DAMASCUS -Hundreds of From there, Iraqi buses are Iraqi refugees boarded buses scheduled to bring them to for home on Tuesday in the Baghdad on Wednesday, said l'irst eonvoy from an Iraqi­according to Mohammed Ali funded efl'ort to speed the al-Budairi, a coordinator for return of families that fled the displaced Iraqis in Syria. eountry's violence and insecu­The entire trip can take rity. about 10 hours without inter­
Many Iraqis have headed ruptions, but the convoy will back on own likely be their own from delayed by Syria and else­checkpoints where as and security
"IfI go and discover

extremist attacks precautions.
that the situation is 

have fallen Details about sharply in not stable, I will the protection Baghdad and for the convoy
come back. " 

other areas. But was not imme­now the Iraqi diately dis­government is closed.
Khaled Ibrahim hoping to accel­Baghdad native Khaled erate the flow -Ibrahim, 45, and draw more said he was attention to the willing to recent drop in violence -by return to Baghdad after hear­offering to pay for trips home. ing the security situation had The program also seeks to improved in the capital. But win favor from neighboring he acknowledged he could pull countries such as Syria and up stakes again at the first Jordan that are struggling signs of trouble. with an estimated 2.2 million "If I go and discover that the Iraqi rnfugees. Syria has tight­situation is not stable, I will ened visa rules for Iraqis in come back" to Syria, said hopes of forcing people to Ibrahim, with his wife, three return home and blocking new sons and two daughters in refugees. tow. "Baghdad, you are victori­llis elder son Abdullah, 13, ous," ehanted some Iraqis as looked forward to attending they headed for a line of 20 school in Baghdad. 
"Explosions don't scare me," 30,000 troops earlier this year have said more than 46,000 he chirped. and cooperation from local refugees returned in October 
The first bus left by mid­groups fighting extremist and the flow has continued afternoon from al-Sayda groups such this month. The Zeinab, an area in southern as al-Qaida in U.N. High Damascus where thousands of Iraq. Commissioner for Iraqi refugees have lived since Earlier this "[The] Iraqi Refugees could the 2003 U.S.-led invasion that month, the not confirm the
government is eager 
toppled Saddam Hussein's Iraqi embassy figures, but said 
regime. in Damascus to have Iraqis return more Iraqis were Syrian officials says the set up 11 reg­to their leaving Syria than country has up to 1.5 million istration cen­arriving -with a
country and live a
Iraqi refugees, straining its ters for Iraqis daily average of education, health and housing to apply for normal, safe life. " 1,500 departures systems. Jordan estimates it the trip home. compared with has up to 700,000 Iraqis. In In Jordan, 500 arrivals.
All ai-Dabbagh 
addition, the U.N. refugee Iraqi ambas­Sybella Wikes,
Iraqi government 
agency has cited various sador Saad al­press officer for
spokesman
reports of more than 2.4 mil­Hayyani told the UNHCH in lion Iraqis displaced inside the T h e Syria, said the country. Associated agency doesn't 
Adnan al-Shourifi, the com­Press that Iraq will give "think it's time" yet for a mas­mercial secretary at the Iraqi Jordan $8 million to help ease sive refugee return. Embassy in Damascus, the refugee burden. "We certainly can't define described the In Baghdad, the situation as being safe in bus convoy government any area in Iraq," she said. 
Tuesday as a spokesman Ali But she added the organiza­"test." "We certainly can't al-Dabbagh said tion still would "support any Thousands of the "Iraqi gov­Iraqi who wants to return."
define the situation 
Iraqis in Syria ernment is Meanwhile, U.S. Hep. Betty have headed as being safe in any eager to have McCollum, D-Minn., arrived in back home in area ofIraq.,, Iraqis return to Damascus to stress U.S. "con­the past weeks. their country cern about the welfare of dis­The U.S. mili­and live a nor­placed Iraqis in Syria and
Sybella Wikes 
tary says mal, safe life." Jordan" and "review the situa­attacks across UNHCR press officer He said more tion of Iraqi refugees," a U.S. Iraq have fallen bus convoys of Embassy statement said. She to their lowest returning planned to hold talks with level since refugees are Syrian officials, non-govern­February 2006, attributing expected in the coming days. mental organizations and this partly to a surge of nearly Officials in Iraq and Syria other ageneies. 
After Thanksgiving Special! 
Choose from Our Fabulous Selection of Irish Studies Courses Spring 2008 
IRST 10101:01  IRST 20103:02  IRST 30214:01  IRST 30433:01  
MWF 9:35-10:25  MWF 10:40-11:30  MW 3:00-4:15  MWF I 0:40-11 :30  
Hugh Fogarty  Sarah McKibben  Julieann Ulin  James Smyth  
Beginning Irish I  Intermediate Irish  Exile in the Irish Literary  Irish History Since 1800  
Tradition  
IRST 10101:02  IRST 20109:01  IRST 30434:01  
MWF 10:40-11:30  MWF 11 :45-12:35  IRST 30216:01  TR 2:00-3:15  
Peadar 0 Muircheartaigh  Hugh Fogarty Celtic Heroic  TR 9:30-10:45 Sean O'Brien  Rory Rapple Late Medieval/Early Modern  
Beginning Irish I  Literature  Victorian Irish Literature  Ireland  
IRST 10101:03  IRST 20203:01  IRST 30219:01  IRST 30439:01  
MWF 12:50-1:40  TR 9:30-10:45  TR 2:00-3:15  TR 5:00-6:15  
Tomas 0 Murchu  Peter McQuillan  Abigail Palko  Rory Rapple  
Beginning Irish I  Advanced Readings  Reading the Unwritten  Debating Irish History  
in Irish Culture  Story: Mother-Daughter  
IRST 10101:04  Relationships in  IRST 40110:01  
MWF 1:55-2:45  IRST 20520:01  20th c. Irish Fiction  TR 3:30-4:45  
Ciara Conneely  TR 9:30-10:45  Briona Nic Dhiarmada  
Beginning Irish I  Sian White  IRST 30306:01  The West of Ireland  
Modern British and  MWF 2:00-2:50  
IRST 10102:01  Irish Literature  Hugh Fogarty  IRST 40302:01  
MWF 9:35-10:25  Saints/Kings in Early Ireland  TR II :00-12:15  
Tara MacLeod  IRST 21601:01  David Lloyd  
Beginning Irish II  MW 4:30-5:45  IRST 30309:01  Beckett, Theater and Visual Art  
James McKenna  TR 12:30-1:45  
IRST 10102:02  Irish and American  Peter McQuillan  IRST 40320:01  
MWF 10:40-11:30  Tap Dance  Great Irish Writers  TR 12:30-1:45  
Tara MacLeod  Briona Nic Dhiarmada  
Beginning Irish II  IRST 30110:01  IRST 30371:01  Gender and Identity in Irish  
TR 2:00-3:15  MWF 10:40-11:30  
IRST 20103:01  Diarmaid 0 Doibhlin  Christopher Fox  IRST 40605:01  
MWF 9:35-10:25  The Hidden Ulster  Introduction to Irish Writers  TR II :00-12:15  
Sarah McKibben  Luke Gibbons  
Intermediate Irish  Film, Literature and Irish Culture  

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Wednesday, November 28, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,958.44 +215.00
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,284 74 1,098 28,166,039 

AM§:,~Ifr~*fll.i111111llllllllll!illlllll~·~!lll! 
NASDAQ 2,580.80 +39.81 
NYSf:,;;~L~IJIIII.1f~l~llltilllliii!I!IIIIIJ 
S&P 500 1,428.23 +21.01 
INIKK£:1· (To81i :':!l'!l\}II~R~I,IIIII!Ii!!i,\lll~llili 
FTSE 100 (London) 6J40.70 -39.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -1.15 +1.62 142.57 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +2.00 +0.98 49.96 CITIGROUP INC (C) -1.24 -0.38 30.32 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +1.80 +0.51 28.80 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.52 +0.097 3.944 13-WEEK BILL +0.65 +0.020 3.075 30-YEAR BOND +1.75 +0.075 4.355 5-YEAR NOTE +3.73 +0.121 3.366 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -3.28 94.42 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -12.50 814.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.35 91.63 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 107.5100 
EURO 0.6746 
CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9965 
· BRITISH POUND 0.4838 
IN BRIEF 
R.J. Reynolds pulls tobacco ads 
NEW YORK-The R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., which has been under intense pressure from anti-smoking groups and members of Congress over print ads for its cigarettes, said Tuesday it would not advertise its brands in newspapers or consumer magazines next year. 
The company had been criticized sharply for both its colorful and feminine Camel No. 9 ads, which appeared in fashion magazines and were seen as cynically aimed at young women, and also for a recent ad in Rolling Stone. 
In that ad, four pages of Camel cigarette ads bookended Rolling Stone's own material on independent rock music, which was presented in a cartoon-like format. That angered anti­smoking advocates, who said it appeared the whole thing was a Camel ad -and that it recalled the old "Joe Camel" cartoons that were banned because they appeared aimed at children. 
ILJ. Reynolds spokeswoman Jan Smith said the decision, first reported Tuesday in the Winston-Salem Journal, had been made some­time before October and was unrelated to the Rolling Stone controversy. 
Broadway negotiations at stalemate 
NEW YORK -No, negotiations between striking Broadway stagehands and theater pro­ducers have not run as long as "Cats." It only seems that way. 
Two days of back-to-hack marathon sessions have not produced a settlement between Local 1 and the League of American Theatres and . Producers, but both sides will return to the bargaining table Wednesday to try again. 
Progress reportedly has been slow in solving the thorny dispute that has shut down most of Broadway since Nov. 10, although some head­way apparently has been made in lengthy dis­cussions held Sunday, Monday and into Tuesday. 
"Talks ended this morning (Tuesday) at 7:30 
a.m. without a deal after 13 hours of hard bar­gaining in what I can only describe as a 'rain delay' in the ninth inning of the seventh game of the World Series," Bruce Cohen, a union spokesman said. "The rainy weather should clear up when talks resume Wednesday." 
Abu Dhabi Investment saves Citi 
$7.5 billion offering makes Arab state one of the largest Citigroup investors 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -The Abu Dhabi Investment Authority will invest $7.5 billion in Citigroup, offering the nation's largest bank needed capital to offset big losses from mortgages and other investments. 
The cash from the sover­eign investment fund of the Gulf Arab state, which has benefited from this year's surge in oil prices, will be convertible into no more than 4.9 percent of Citigroup Inc.'s equity. Citigroup characterized the investment as passive and said the fund will not be able to name any board members to the bank. 
The Investment Authority will receive equity units that pay an 11 percent annual yield -a high price for Citigroup, whose dividend yield is 7.3 percent. They will then be converted into Citigroup common shares at a price of up to $37.24 a share between March 15, 2010, and Sept. 15, 2011. 
The purchase, announced late Monday, would make the Investment Authority one of Citi's largest share­holders. 
"We see in Citi a highly 
Pedestrians pass a Citibank branch in Chicago earlier this month. The Abu Dhabi
respected company with a 
Investment Authority announced a large investment in the company late Monday. 
premier brand and with tremendous opportunities Tier 1 capital describes a close at $30.32 Tuesday, portfolio by $8 billion to $11 for growth," said the company's core cash, which although shares traded at a billion in the fourth quarter. Investment Authority's man­includes stock and disclosed new 5-year low of $29.50 In the third quarter, the aging director, Sheikh reserves. When a company earlier in the day. bank's exposure to assets Ahmed Bin Zayed AI has a high amount of Tier 1 Citigroup's shares have tied to subprime mortgages Nahayan. "This investment capital in relation to its debt, lost about 45 percent of led to a loss of about $6.5 reflects our confidence in the company is regarded as their value since the begin-billion. Citi's potential to build financially strong. ning of this year, wiping Citigroup executives said shareholder value." John McDonald, a Bane of away $124 billion in market Monday that a deteriorating 
The investment, which America Securities analyst, capitalization, and touched business climate could mean was expected to close within said the investment will buy a five-year low Monday as a new round of job cuts, the next several days, will Citi some time, but will not the drumbeat of bad news even after the bank pared be considered Tier 1 capital fix the bank's debt troubles. about its investment losses its 320,000 workforce by for regulatory purposes. "Capital infusions do not hasgrownmorepersistent. 17,000 positions earlier this That will help Citi reach its solve problems overnight," Charles Prince stepped year. Pummeled by billions goal of returning to its tar­he wrote in a research note. down as Citigroup's chair-in writedowns, Citigroup is get capital ratios -essen­Investors, however, were man and chief executive reviewing its cost structure tially, its ratio of cash to debt relieved by the infusion and Nov. 4, the same day Citi to bring it in line with "eco­-in the first half of 2008, Citigroup shares rose 52 announced that it will likely nomic realities," the compa­the bank said. cents, or 1. 7 percent, to write down the value of its ny said. 

Oil executive sentenced after guilty plea 
Before pleading guilty on the 12th tinued access to Iraqi oil, prosecutors
Associated Press 

day of his trial, Wyatt had insisted he said. 
never paid an illegal surcharge to the In court papers filed prior to sen­
NEW YORK -Texas oilman Oscar Iraqi government to win oil contracts. tencing, prosecutors argued against Wyatt Jr. was sentenced to a year in Prosecutors contended he paid mil­leniency for Wyatt, criticizing his prison Tuesday for conspiring to vio­lions of dollars to Iraqi officials to get "breathtakingly immoral" actions. late the rules of the U.N. oil-for-food an unfair share of contracts connect­The government claimed that Wyatt program. ed to the oil-for-food program, which was in a unique position to dissuade 
Wyatt, 83, pleaded guilty last month ran from 1996 to 2003. Iraq from corrupting the scheme. and agreed to be sentenced to 18 to The program permitted the Iraqi It played a tape for the jury of a 24 months in prison. He also agreed government to sell oil primarily to buy 1990 conversation in which Wyatt is to forfeit $11 million, conceding that food and medicine for suffering Iraqis. heard telling Saddam that he had vis­he approved a $200,000 illegal pay­It was meant to help Iraqis cope with ited Iraq as many as 40 times in the ment directly to an Iraqi bank account U.N. sanctions, but authorities said previous 15 years and that he was in December 2001. the program was corrupted when "largely responsible" for a lot of the 
U.S. District Judge Denny Chin, cit­Iraqi officials began demanding illegal transactions in which Iraqis sold one­ing Wyatt's age, military service dur­surcharges in return for contracts to third of their oil exports to the United ing World War II and the many letters buy Iraqi oil. During the trial, the gov­States. written to the court on his behalf, ernment introduced evidence that Wyatt's lawyers described their handed down a more lenient sen­Wyatt used an energy company he client as an American hero. tence, but noted: "There's little doubt founded, Coastal Corp., to buy crude They said he tried to play a peaceful in my mind that he broke the law." oil from Iraq in the decades leading role in resolving conflict between the 
Wyatt cried as he addressed the up to the 1990 invasion of Kuwait. two countries, even helping to fly judge, apologizing to his family and After the invasion, Wyatt main­Americans out of Iraq when Hussein friends and saying, "I would never do tained a close relationship with was threatening to keep them there in anything to hurt my country." Saddam Hussein to guarantee his con-the event of a U.S. invasion. 

THE OBSERVER 

page 8 
IEWPOINT Wednesday, November 28, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Recognizing Christmas 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR 8l1SINF.SS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily Awr. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kare·Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hinc SCENt: EDITOR: 'Ete Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PuoTo EIJITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAI'IIICS ElliTOR: Madeline Nics 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
An Dr,siGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROI.I.I\R: 'l'im Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 63I-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-53I3 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 63 I -5303 viewpoint. I @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents ofthe Universiry of Noue Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edirors and department editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qrustiom rrgarriing Observer policies should be dim:rrd to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
·nu:-Ohacrvet (USPS '59') l-4000) if; puhlilh...d Mon,,i.o~y through Friday Cll«pt during c:r•nl .-ml VAC.atiuu pcr1od5 A•uhKriptinn 111 The Ohac:rv~:r is$100 fi.,r one acuknuc yner: $~~feu unc l("fliCIU"t. 
The Ollliervcr is puhli~ :u; PO>TMASTER nl4 Suud1 Dining Hall Send addrl!$5 <:orrttrions to: Nmn: D;mc, IN 4(,'5"i<~m ·nu:Olmrvcr Puiu<lic.JI pt\ltaKc p·.aid at Notrt Dounc P.O.Ilox 779 .md Jdditinmtl mailing offu.:r::s. 024 Sourh Dining Hall 
Nmrt O.lffi(, IN 465S6-0n9 
The Ol'uervcr ".1. mcmhoer t)f d~e A6ociatcd Ptes5. All rtpruduction right.\ ;1;1'¢ rtkrved. 

A 1659law of the Massachusetts Bay Colony levied a fine of five shillings on "[w]hosoever shall be found observing any such day as Christmas." Christmas, to them. was a "popish" frivolity at best. 
We don't fine 

people anymore Charles Rice 
for celebrating 
Christmas, a legal 
Right or
holiday. But local 
Wrong?

governments can go to curious lengths to purge the observance of win­ter holidays, Winter Solstice or whichever recognition of the Christmas reality that gave rise to the "holidays" in the first place. This year, in Fort Collins, Colo., a "Holiday Display Task Force" recommended using white lights instead of red and green ones. The objective was to recognize the diversity of "a variety of winter holidays, such as Christmas, Hanukkah, Diwali, Birth of Baha'u'llah, Bhodi Day, the Winter Solstice, Kwanzaa and more." 
"Throughout history," the task force said, "the most common theme of win­ter celebration is light at a time of dark­ness." The "holiday displays" ean include "Symbols of Winter: snowflakes, snowmen, snow balls, iee skates, skis, pPnguins, polar bears, white lights, etc." Christmas was singled out for spe­cial depreciation by the exclusion of red and green lights which could remind people of something. Presumably, that exclusion would not apply to traffie sig­nals. On Nov. 20, sanity prevailed. The City Council rejected the proposal. 
Such controversies over Christmas reflect changes in the posture of gov­ernment toward religion dictated by Supreme Court decisions which lack coherence as well as fidelity to the meaning of the Constitution. Those decisions affect the culture. 
In 1984, in Lynch v. Donnelly, the Court upheld the inclusion of a nativity creche in a Pawtueket municipal dis­play because the display also included "a Santa Claus house, reindeer pulling Santa's sleigh, candy-striped poles, a Christmas tree, earolers, cutout figures [ofl a clown, an elephant, and a teddy bear, hundreds of colored lights [and] a large banner that reads 'Seasons Greetings."' The purpose of the display, said the Court, was not to endorse reli­gion, but to promote shopping. This has come to be known as the "Three Plastic Animals Rule." As Justice Harry Blaekmun accurately said, it reduces the creche "to the role of a neutral har­binger of the holiday season, useful for commercial purposes, but devoid of any inherent meaning." Five years later, in County of Allegheny v. ACLU, the Court held that a creche standing by itself on a courttwuse staircase, with a sign say­ing the ereche was donated by the Holy Name Society, was an unconstitutional endorsement of religion. The Court found no such endorsement in the placement of a Hanukkah menorah, a Christmas tree and a "salute to liberty" sign outside the building. 
It is difficult to see any objective and predictable principle in such rulings. But what neutrality toward religion was the Constitution intended to require? 
The Establishment Clause of the First Amendment forbade Congress both to create an official, established church for the nation and to interfere with the established churehes that existed in six states, the last of which endml in 1833. The Clause required neutrality among religious denominations. We lack the space to explain here the process by which the Court has wrongly interprnt­ed the Clause to require governmental neutraljty, not among denominations, but between theism and non-theism. 
As Justiee William Brennan put it, the words "under God" can remain in the pledge of allegiance only beeause those words "may merely recognize the his­torical fact that our Nation was believed to have been founded 'under God."' Under the Court's theory, a statement by a public offieial that the four aflir­mations of God in the Declaration of Independence are in fact true would be an unconstitutional preference of the­ism. 
This suspension of judgment on the existence of God implicitly establishes an agnostic secularism as the oflicial religion. Government cannot affirm Christmas as a fact because, according to the Court, it cannot affirm even the existence of God as a fact. That would have surprised the members of the First Congress. From Sept. 24-25, 1789, they approved the First Amendment and directed President Washington to declare a day of "public thanksgiving and prayer ... acknowledging the ... favors of Almighty God." Washington did so, stating that "it is the duty of all Nations to acknowledge the providence of Almighty God, to obey his will, to be grateful for his benefits, and humbly to 
implore his protection and favor." 
We have come a long way since 1789. But not even the Supreme Court ean change the reality of Christmas. As Cardinal Ratzinger agn~ml, before he became Pope Benedict XVI, the Christmas event "is infinitely more important than the creation of the world." 'The birth of Christ," he said, "is an event of a far grnater order of significance. God himself comes into the world and becomes a man." 
The trend today, he said, is "to sepa­rate this festival from Christianity and to reject its Christian beginnings .... In America, in ... commercialization and ... sentimentality, the display windows of large shops, whieh in former years were decorated with cr£1ches ... are now equipped with mythieal represen­tations, with deer and stags and Santa Clauses, whereby what is truly mythical is set side-by-side with what is Christian. Of course a lingering echo still rmnains of what ttiuchml people when they learned that God became a man. But this is an attempt to keep what is beautiful and touching and to get away from anything in it that makes demands upon us." 
And Christ does make "demands upon us." The birth of Christ, unlike that of, say, Aristotle or Jeremy Bentham, is controversial because, unlike all others, Christ makes a continuing claim, in the words of Monsignor Luigi Giussani, the founder of Communion and Liberation, to "absolute importance in our lives.... If an individual rejects this ... then a fundamental aversion sets in." The eon­tinued and focused opposition to public recognition of Christmas is a back­handed recognition of its unique reality and significance. 
Benediet XVI recently reminded a conference on the future of Europe that "[a] community that is built ... without remembering that every person is cre­ated in the image and likeness of God, ends by doing no one any good." Christmas recalls us to that reality. If we pay attention. Merry Christmas. 
Professor Emeritus Charles E. Rice is on the law school faculty. He may be reached at (574) 633-4415 or rice.l@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF QUOTE OF THE DAY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Scene Marcela Berrios Tae Andrews Mandi Stirone Viewpoint Dan Jacobs Bethany "Injustice anywhere is a threat to "Happiness makes up in heiQht for 
Graphics Whitfield justice everywhere. " what it lacks in length. ' Madeline Nies Sports 
Martin Luther King Jr. Robert Frost
Chris Khorey 

American civil rights leader American poet
Michael Bryan Sam Werner 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, November 28, 2007 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Standing with solidarity in the fight against AIDS 
Every 11 seconds, someone dies from AIDS, and every seven seconds, a new person contracts HIV. At this time ­
11:30 p.m. on Nov. 26 -about 40,529,209 people are living with HIV. The virus is far from gone, and it isn't going anywhere. 
In 2006, more were infected than any other year to date -4.3 million new people became HIV positive. It definitely is easy to feel helpless in making any sort of difference in this massive pan­demic. But there are things that we all can do. Besides just learning more about the virus and supporting the organizations that are at the forefront of research, treatment and care-giving, we can recognize the needs of our brothers and sisters who are the victims of the pandemic. 
Stigma has become the cohort virus to HIV. Besides suffering the physical tor­tures that one endures for years because of HIV/AIDS, there is the poten­tially more hurtful emotional torture of discrimination, isolation and injustice. While we as students may not be able to find the cure to AIDS, we can recognize the fact that we all truly are affected by the disease and can reach out and work to reduce stigma. 
Getting tested yourself for HIV is one step you can take to fight this stigma. If done solely for symbolic reasons, being tested puts oneself in the shoes of those who are facing the reality of the virus. Globally, only one in eight people who want to get tested actually are able to, and only one in ten who are infected has been tested. Knowing these facts, we cannot help but feel blessed to live in a country where the option to take part in such an important health measure is readily available. 
The scary thing, though, is that even with many different places offering test­ing, a quarter of all HIV positive Americans are not aware of their status. This week, you have the opportunity to show your solidarity with the millions who are suffering from AIDS in the world and the millions who are living with HIV and don't even know it. Free HIV testing is being conducted on Tuesday and Thursday nights from 6-8 
p.m. at the Health Center. It's a little-known fact that confidential HIV tests are always available on campus, giving students access to this important health information at any time. 
The option to get checked for free on these nights takes away any obstacle to being tested; not only is there no cost, but for every person that comes in and is tested, a monetary donation is being made to an NGO working for AIDS vic­tims in Kenya. Also, it's a rapid test -it is done quickly and produces results quickly, as well as involves no blood, only a swab of the tongue. 
Some people think the issue of HIVIAIDS and testing have no place on a Catholic campus. This couldn't be fur­ther from the truth. The Catholic Church has been involved in the fight against HIV since the beginning. Just last year at a U.N. General Assembly Special Session, it was recognized that the Catholic Church has to "fight stigma, and facilitate testing, counseling, and reconciliation." How could the Church, which calls us to be in "Communion with the Saints" -to be in solidarity with all of God's people -leave some­one to physically, spiritually and emo­tionally suffer? 
There is the tendency to reduce the situation to a Catholic vs. condom issue. AIDS is much bigger than the condom issue. The Church has generally been silent on the condom issue in regard to HIV, because for Catholic leaders today, it is not "no to condoms," but "yes to abstinence and fidelity." The issue at hand is caring for those who are suffer­ing and, in addition, advocating educa­tion as a form of prevention. 
HIV/AIDS truly does affect us all, whether Catholic, Jewish, black, white, young, old, American or African. This Saturday is World AIDS Day. Across the globe, international commitment is being demanded to address the realities of the pandemic. At Notre Dame, there is a call for your commitment to be in solidarity with 40,529,209 people who are suffering worldwide. 
Teresa Hancock 
sentor 
offcampus Nov. 27 
Dining Hall rule unreasonable 

I am writing in regard to the new signs posted by the trays and' silverware in 1S'outh Dining Hall. As I walked into South Dining Hall this morning, I was met by the same rude man as usual and his direction to this new sign. I'm not sure about North Dining Hall, but South Dining Hall has posted signs stating that no beverage containers are allowed in the dining hall. 
Regardless of whether this was a rule that was always thrown under the shelf and has become renewed or whether it is new, it is all together ridiculous. The majority of dining hall patrons never bring one in to begin with. For those that do, is it really that much of a deal for us to take something to drink in a container? I'm not one to complain, but it sure is nice to have hot choco­late in a "beverage container" while walking through windy South Quad. Is that too much to ask? 
Kevin Kimberly freshman O'Neill Hall Nov. 27 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

You don,t ba.ve to stop buying cheap toys for Christmas. Before you whip out your charge ca.rd, use th:is... 
I i 
CANTHI T Y ... 
YR~ NO DO POISON YOUR Cl:tlLD? DO CHOKEYOURCHtLD? 0 0 BREAK YOU& CHILD'S EARDRUMS? 0 0 BREAK YOU& CHILD'S BONE~? 0 0 BURN YOUR CHlLD? 0 0 PUT OUT YOUR CHILD'S EYE'? 
U-WIRE 
Dear Hollyw-ood: Keep it the satne 
Amid a holiday trailer blitz featuring fighting polar bears, an icy Nicole Kidman and more talking animals than a Dr. Doolittle film, "The Golden Compass" has found an enemy-Christian groups. 
Based on the nov­els in the "His Dark Alicia Wade Materials" series penned by Philip Pullman, "The Daily Egyptian Golden Compass" is the first in a trilogy dealing with the concept of an authorita­tive church and its battle with a child who possesses a compass that reveals truth. Through many fictitious and magi­cal happenings the main character jour­neys through different worlds to bring down the corrupt church. 
The novels have an anti-religious theme and people are protesting them being turned into films -so what? 
This isn't the first time Christian groups have spoken out against films and novels. Recently the Harry Potter series as well as "TheDa Vinci Code" have seen protests against their subject matter. People have the right to believe what they want to believe; see and read what they want to see and read; and protest what they choose to protest. 

It isn't the protesting that is offensive. Religion is obviously a touchy subject as beliefs are the heart and drive of people. It is human nature to protect what we hold dear and we should be respectful of everyone's beliefs and give each the opportunity to speak in defense of views. 
What is bothersome is the notion that Hollywood-more specifically New Line, the studio attached to the "Compass" project-is attempting to water down the themes integral to the original text, especially when the first installment of the "His Dark Materials" series is the least provocative in dealing with religion. 
In the film version of "The Golden Compass," the church is referenced as the "Magisterium," and New Line con­firmed to MTVNews that some religious references were relaxed. 
While it is clear filmmakers can't put every nuance from a novel into a film, themes shouldn't be changed just to appease a perceived backlash. The bot­tom line is people will go see the film if they want to, not because "the Church" was changed to "the Magisterium." 
Hollywood should honor its source material and protect the integrity of the original work and vision of the author. Of course some books make great movies with nips and tucks to stories, but if the editing causes the work to lose its origi­nal message, then it is distorting the composition of the author and disre­spectful to his creativity. 
"Compass" director Chris Weitz told MTV he has no intention of softening religious tones in the sequels to the film and should only be applauded for his decision. The single wish one could have is that New Line hadn't watered any­thing down at all. 
Audiences will choose what they want to see and whether it conflicts with their beliefs. It shouldn't be Hollywood's call to change the themes from literature to get a couple more bucks at the box office. 
Protect the work's integrity, Hollywood, and fans of the text will flock to the the­aters and thank you for it. 
This column originally appeared in the Nov. 27 edition of the Daily Egyptian, a publication ofSouthern Illinois University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 10 
Wednesday, November 28, 2007 
DISNEY'S LATEST COMBINES ANIMATION, LIVE ACTION 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Assistant Scene Editor 
If someone asked the creative minds at Disney to come up with an amalgam of their animated movies, it would have to be called something like, "The Great Mulan-Ella and the Beast." Or maybe "Fantasia Pan, Aladdin and Bambi in Wonderland." Or something else to that effect. 
And as Belle from "Beauty and the Beast" would say, the plot would need to have "Far off places, dar­ing swordfights, magic spells, a prince in disguise!" Over-the-top scenery, crazy costuming, villains and heroes of legend or lore would be good suggestions, if not absolutely required. 
Thankfully for children and inner-children every­where, Disney has gone ahead and made its own ver­sion of the ultimate animated movie merger with its sweet, self-skewering new film "Enchanted." To its credit, "Enchanted" takes the tropes and cliches of Disney animated films and lets them run head-on into of these things in her own way, and Adams deserves credit for taking on a role that lesser aetresses might have played as nothing more than irony. Giselle really is that wide-eyed and innocent, and Adams plays up her princess idiosyncrasies for laughs, but in a way that reminds the audience why they loved Disney films in the first place. Her singing chops aren't bad either -the film's original songs all feature Adams' own singing voice. 
"He'll find his own way to tell you I with the little things he'll dol that's how you know!" she exclaims during the film's most ornate musical number, the Central Park extravaganza "That's How You Know." For an actress that most Disney fans probably haven't heard of, let alone seen one of her lesser-known films, Adams commands the screen and keeps the plot mov­ing with ease. 
The original songs are written by blockbuster Disney team Alan Menken and Stephen Schwartz. known best to our generation for their work with the music from other Disney flicks. The pair worked together on "Pocahontas," and "The Hunchback of 
the cynicism of reality. The r---------------------, Notre Dame." Menken also film's good humor about worked on "Aladdin," Disney stereotypes and Enchanted "Beauty and the Beast" and postmodern twists feel gen-"The Little Mermaid," uine without being too self· among others. "True Love's deprecating. Director: Kevin Uma Kiss" is Edward and 
The film opens with an Starring: Amy Adams, Patrick Dempsey, Giselle's opening duet, and 
animated sequence in "Happy Working Song" pays Andalasia, the mythical James Marsden & Susan Sarandon homage to "Snow White and 
home of young maiden Giselle (Amy Adams, "Junebug"), Prince Edward (James Marsden, "Hairspray") and an evil stepmother, Queen Narissa (Susan Sarandon). Giselle and Edward long for true love's first kiss, and once they meet a grand wedding is immediately planned; that is, if Narissa has any­thing to say about it. Dabbling in wizardry and black magic like most animated Disney step-parents, Narissa pushes Giselle into a magical portal that sends her to a place "where there is no happily ever after." 
I 
That mystic place is New York City, where a terri­fled and three-dimensional Giselle meets divorce lawyer Robert Phillip (Patrick Dempsey) and his daughter Morgan (newcomer Rachel Covey). Morgan's mother abandoned the pair years before, leaving Robert feeling disenchanted with Giselle's world of storybook romance and high-flying dreams. His rela­tionship with his girlfriend Nancy (Broadway star Idina Menzel), like much of his life, is dry and unemo­tiona!. Well, until Giselle arrives. 
The princess in a Disney mish-mosh animated movie would have to be smart, beautiful, independ­
ent, magical and sweet, while also maintaining per­fect hair and a gown that never wrinkles. Giselle is all the Seven Dwarves" with Giselle's "Whistle While You Work" mantra. 
Where "Enchanted" gets much of its charm is in how it playfully toys with Disney conventions. When Giselle sings the "Happy Working 
Song," for example, she opens Hobert's penthouse window to call the animals to help her. But instead of deer, rabbits and frogs, Giselle gets rats, pigeons and flies to clean Robert and Morgan's apartment. When Edward arrives in New York to rescue his damsel, he stabs a city bus with his princely rapier and, in a clip widely seen in the film's trailer, thinks his televi<>ion is a magic mirror. 
The cast members -Sarandon, Adams and Marsden in particular -seem to be having nothing but fun with their roles, and Dempsey is a solid real world foil for Giselle's animated world antics. Timothy Spall is ridiculously wily as Sarandon's henchman, and Pip, a CGl chipmunk, steals every scene he's in. 
"Enchanted" is so much fun that it's hard to remem­her you're watching what's really a gentle satire. For any critics or cynics out there, see "Enchanted" ­you'll feel the Disney magic in no time. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, November 28, 2007 
page 11 
) 

DISNEY TO RETURN TO TWO-DIMENSIONAL ANIMATION 
"Enchanted" may feature only 14 minutes of traditional two­dimensional animation, but those few minutes are only a baby step before Walt Disney Animation Studios takes a Cassie Belek giant leap back into 
Scene & Heard 

the world of feature-length 2-D animation with "The Princess and the Frog" in 2009. 
It may seem odd that producing a 2-D animated film would be something unusual for Disney, but when the studio announced that 2004's easily forgettable "Home on the Range" would be its last 2­D animated feature, the art form that Walt Disney built his empire on appeared dead to the House of Mouse. 
"The Princess and the Frog" may be just what the studio needs to usher in a third golden age of animation. The film, which for­merly went under the working title of "The Frog Princess," is set in jazz-age 1920s New Orleans and will mark a return to the fairytale as it features Disney's first African American princess, Tiana. Tony Award-winning actress and "Dreamgirls" star Anika Noni Rose will provide both the voice and vocals for the newest Disney princess. Plot details are sparse, but other char­acters include a southern debutante and her plantation-owning father, a Voodoo magician (the villain), a 200-year-old Voodoo priestess (the fairy god­mother), a prince from the fiction­al nation of Maldakesh and a fire­fly and alligator -the obligatory animal friends in the film. 
Ron Clements and John Musker have returned to Disney Animation Studios to direct "The Princess and the Frog." The duo was instrumental in bringing 
These overdue happenings at Walt Disney Animation Studios occur after an unsuccessful try at 3-D animation. 

about the renaissance of Disney "Chicken Little," proving that it animation almost 20 years ago wasn't the technology that mat­when they directed 1989's "The tered to the public; it was the Little Mermaid." They subse­quality of story-telling. quently directed the 1992 hit After Disney purchased Pixar in "Aladdin" and 1997's "Hercules," 2006, John Lasseter, a former but were forced out of the compa­Disney animator and Pixar found­ny after their failed "Treasure ing member, became the chief Planet" in 2002. Now they return creative officer for both Disney to direct a musical fairytale, Animation and Pixar. Lasseter has which they made it proved they clear that
With all the changes happening at
could magi­the Disney 
cally accom­Disney in the post-Michael Eisner studio will plish with regime, it appears that traditional not revert 
"Mermaid." back to 2-D
2-D animatedfeatures are on the
Although it animation 
was original­brink ofanother renaissance. alone, but 
ly announced that composer Alan Menken would tackle the music for the film, it has since been decided that Pixar-favorite Randy Newman will take over the job. Menken is the composer behind "Mermaid" and "Beauty and the Beast," and with lyricist Howard Ashman they won multiple Academy Awards for their work with Disney. Ashman, who died in 1991 of AIDS, and Menken have also been credited with helping to revive Disney animation in the early 1990s. It was Ashman who came up with the idea to make Ursula an overweight, voluptuous drag queen character and Sebastian a Trinidadian "Under 
the Sea" -singing 
crab. 
Therefore, the 
choice of 
Newman is an 
interesting one, 
but not too sur­
prising -the 
musician is a New Orleans native. One specula­tion is that Menken was taken off of the project because he wrote the music for "Enchanted" and the studio did not want to seem too repetitive. 
These overdue happenings at Walt Disney Animation Studios occur after an unsuccessful try at 3-D animation. In 2005, Disney decided to enter the CGI race sans Pixar with the underwhelming he has still 

paved the way for traditional 2-D animated films to be possible again. 
In addition to discontinuing the production of straight-to-DVD Disney sequels, Lasseter has announced a return to the pro­duction of theatrical animated shorts. "How to Hook Up Your Home Theater," starring Goofy, will premiere before "National Treasure: Book of Secrets," which is set to be released on Dec. 21. "Home Theater" is the first Goofy theatrical cartoon since 1961's "Aquamania." 
With all the changes happening at Disney in the post-Michael Eisner regime, it appears that tra­ditional 2-D animated features are on the brink of another ren­aissance. "Enchanted" is the first step as it lovingly pokes fun at its predecessors and points out the glaring passive stereotypes of the earlier princess films. 
There is no doubt that Tiana will build on the active roles of Ariel and Belle and set a new standard for Disney princesses. And after a five year break from 2-D animation, it will be time for Disney to reclaim its roots and find a better balance between commerce and art. 
The views expressed in this arti­cle are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd. edu 
page 12 The Observer + ClASSIFIEDS Wednesday, November 28, 2007 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Duke picks up tempo, blows out Wisconsin 
Gordon's 29 points help Indiana hold off Georgia Tech; Pittsburgh, Memphis win easily over Boston U, Austin Peay 
Associated Press 
DUHIIAM, N.C. -Duke fig­ured out how to make up for its sizn disadvantage against Wiseonsin -turn up the tempo. 
Crng Paulus scored 13 of his 1 X points during the decisive first half, and No. 7 Duke ran No. 20 Wisconsin right out of Carnnron Indoor Stadium in an X2-5S rout Tuesday night. 
Freshman Taylor King added 15 points in his sncond straight strong game ofT the beneh for tlw Blue Devils (7-0), who nntered wondnring how they'd contain a Wisconsin front line that featured three players in the rotation who are 6-foot-1 0 or taller. 
Fellow freshman Kyle Singler had 13 points, Gerald Henderson added 11 and Jon Schnyer scored I 0 for the Blue Dnvils. 
Duke's up-tempo offense and swarming, aggressive defense dominated from the opening tip, helping the Blue Devils improve to 9-0 in the ACC-Big Ten Challenge and remain the only tnam with a perfect record in tho annual event. 
Duke, which didn't start a player taller than 6-8, held its own on the glass -Wisconsin had just a 42-40 rebounding advantage -and that helped turn the Blue Devils' tirst legiti­matn test at home into a blowout. their NCAA-best 55th straight non-conference home­court vietory. 

Jon Leuer and Trevon Hughes scored 12 points apiece and Brian Butch had 11 for Wisconsin (5-1). which was denied its first 6-0 start since 1996-97. Hughes, the team's leading scorer, was held more than seven points below his average. 
Duke wasted no time pressur­ing the half-court-oriented Badgers into an up-and-down game, never allowing them to feel comfortable in their first visit to Cameron. 
The Blue Devils capped a dedsive 19-7 first-half run with a spectacular 15-second sequence that had the volume at the always-noisy arena at its loudest decibel level all season. 
llenderson got things going when he blocked a layup by Leuer to start a fast break, and Paulus buried a 3-pointer from the top of the key to extend Duke's lead to 22-14. 
Then, DeMarcus Nelson stole the ball from Michael Flowers and found Paulus in the left cor­ner. The point guard swished another 3 at the 11:30 mark to give the Blue Devils their first double-figure lead of the game at 25-14, sending the Cameron Crazies into earsplitting deliri­um. 
Singler's 3 from the top of the key 2 minutes later made it 28­16 and put Duke's lead in dou­ble figures to stay. 
Indiana 83, Georgia Tech 79 
Eric Gordon scored 29 points 

AP Indiana freshman guard Eric Gordon goes up for a layup In the Hoosiers' 83-79 win over Georgia Tech Tuesday. 

and D.J. White added 18 to help Indiana rally past Georgia Tech on Tuesday night. 
Jamarcus Ellis scored 12 of his 15 points in the second half for the 15th-ranked Hoosiers in their 21st straight regular-sea­son win at Assembly Hall. It also was the Big Ten's first victory in this year's Big Ten/ACC Challenge. 
Georgia Tech (3-3) was led by Lewis Clinch with 18 points. Anthony Morrow and Gani Lawai each added 17. 
Indiana (5-1) started both halves sluggishly, committing five turnovers in the first four minutes of the game and allow­ing Georgia Teeh to open the second half on a 9-0 run, which erased the Hoosiers' 38-34 half­time lead. 
But Indiana used some nifty drives by Gordon and Ellis to retake the lead, and the strate­gy eventually opened things up down low for White and on the perimeter for the outside shoot­ers. The result: Lance Stemler's 3-pointer with 7:20 to go not only gave Indiana a 60-58 lead, but also sparked an 11-2 run that made it 68-60. 
Georgia Tech got as close as 68-64 and was within five with less than a minute left, but the Hoosiers' late free-throw shoot­ing sealed the victory. 
Indiana played without fresh­man guard Jordan Crawford, suspended for three games min­utes before the opening tip for violating team rules. The announcement was made by 
coach Kelvin Sampson. Crawford was averaging 12.6 points. 
Pittsburgh 80, Boston 
University 53 
Ronald Hamon made all five of his 3-point attempts to score 15 points and No. 14 Pittsburgh put away Boston University quickly with a 20-3 run in the first half, staying unbeaten with a victory Tuesday night. 
The Panthers (6-0). again showing off their new, faster­paced offense, also got 14 points from leading scorer Sam Young, 11 points and eight assists from point guard Levance Fields and 11 points from Mike Cook. 
The early run put the Panthers up 21-5 and was simi­lar to that of a 22-0 run early in their 92-45 rout of Buffalo on Friday. Pitt's average winning margin against mostly light­weight competition is 31 points. 
Pitt is 6-0 for the sixth consec­utive season and has a chance to open at least 9-0 for the sixth season in a row. 
Fields hit a 3-pointer and Hamon made two in a row beyond the arc to put Pitt up 10­4, before Fields made a long jumper that was inches short of another 3. Keith Benjamin's 3­pointer and Tyrell Biggs' dunk made it 21-5, and coach Jamie 
Dixon used everyone  on  his  
bench after that.  
Boston  University  (1-5),  

picked by America East coaches to win the league but the loser of four in a row, still has not beaten a ranked opponent in 38 years -since a 1959 NCAA tournament upset of Navy. The Terriers lost the Eastern Regional finals to Jerry West-led West Virginia that season. 
Memphis 104, Austin Peay 82 
Freshman Derrick Hose had 19 points and 12 assists, and No. 3 Memphis shot 64 percent Tuesday night in a victory over Austin Peay. 
Hose was coming on· his worst game of the season, a four-point performance against Arkansas State a week before. This time, he shot 6-of-8 from the field as Memphis (6-0) built the lead to as many as 23 early in the sec­ond half. 
Chris Douglas-Hoberts led Memphis with 23 points on 11­of-15 shooting, and Shawn Taggart added a career-high 17 points. Joey Dorsey was one of three Tigers with 10 points. lie also grabbed 10 rebounds. 
Drake Hn1~d lnd the Governors (2-4) with 21 points, missing only one of his nine shots, while Todd Babington finished with 1 S points on 5-of-8 from the field, all from 3-point range. Wes Channels had 16 for the Governors, and Kyle Duncan finished with 10 points, hitting all four of his shots from the field. 
Memphis has won all its games by double digits. The Governors, who have lost two straight, never got the deficit under 16 in the final 17 min­utes. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES FoR SALE 
2-6 BDRM HOMES.  3 bdrm/2 bath home for sale $95,000/for rent $900.  
$295.PERSON/MO.  706 N. St. Louis.  
GILLISRENTALS.COM.  Contact Brad  
272-6306  574-220-8666.  


FoR RENT 
Blue & Gold Homes now showing 08-09 & 09-10. Bluegoldrentals.com 
Blue & Gold Homes 2nd semester sale. $200 P/S just off campus "alumni owned". Bluegoldrentals.com 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
1027 Good, 4 bed, 1 bath, near ND & If you or someone you care about Riverside Trail (3 min. drive, under 2 has been sexually assaulted, visit miles), garage, full basement, TICKETS http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. $1100/mo. 503-757-8125. shtml Domerhomes. wetpaint.com UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 
not go it alone. If you or someone PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME· Walk to campus! Good neighbor-you love needs confidential support ONE WHO IS? You do not have to hood. 3 bedroom 1 bath. or assistance, please call Sr. Sue be alone. We want to help. Call our Washer/dryer in basement. Landlord Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­does the yardwork. $750/mo. No information, visit our website at: 800-No Abort or visit our web site at pets. No Section 8. Credit check and http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-www.lifecall.org criminal background check required. nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad 574-250-1266. in THE OBSERVER. You're like a cactus girl 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------~ 
OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, November 28, 2007 
NHL 
Atlantic Division 
team record pts GF GA 
Philadelphia 13-8-2 28 73 66 NY Rangers 13-9-2 28 53 47 NY Islanders 12-8-1 25 51 55 New Jersey 11·10·2 24 56 59 Pittsburgh 10-11-2 22 68 69 
Northeast Division 
team record pts GF GA 
Ottawa 16-5-1 33 71 53 Montreal 12·8·3 27 69 62 Boston 12-8-2 26 58 54 Buffalo 11-10-1 23 64 59 Toronto 8-11·5 21 70 86 
Southeast Division 
team record pts GF GA 
Carolina 13-8-3 29 80 72 Florida 11-12-1 23 63 69 Atlanta 11-12-0 22 61 78 Tampa Bay 10-11-2 22 74 70 Washington 8·15·1 17 57 72 
Central Division 
team record pts GF GA 
Detroit 15·6-2 32 76 56 St. louis 13-8-0 26 53 46 Chicago 12-9-2 26 66 67 Columbus 11·9·4 26 63 60 Nashville 11-9·2 24 62 63 
Northwest Division 
team record pts GF GA 
Vancouver 12-9-2 26 62 60 Minnesota 12-9-2 26 61 61 Colorado 12·9·1 25 63 66 Calgary 10-11-3 23 66 71 Edmonton 10-13-1 21 57 74 
Pacific Division 
team record pts GF GA 
Dallas 13-7-4 30 72 61 Anaheim 11-9-4 26 61 66. San Jose 11-8-3 25 58 49 7 •··· Phoenix 11-10-8 22 5S 61 Los Angeles 9-13-1 19 63 14 
NSCAA/adidas Men's Soccer Top25 
team record previous 
1 Wake Forest 15-1-2 2 2 Connecticut 16·2"1 1 3 Santa Clara 13-1-4 3 4 Brown 14·1·1 5 5 SMU 13-3-2 6 6 Boston College 12-4-1 8 7 Creighton 10-1-5 7 8 Virginia Tech 10-2-5 4 9t Indiana 13-4-3 9 9t Tulsa 12·2·2 10 11 NOmE DAME 11-3-5 11 12 Saint louis 1.2-2-3 12 13 UCSB 11-3-3 13 14 Ohio State 13-3-5 18 15 Harvard 11·3·2 15 16 Northwestem 12-4-3 14 17 Alaon 13·3-2 17 18 West Virginia 13-5-2 16. 19 Maryland 10-4-4 1.9 20 California 11-4-2 19 21 Duke 11-6-1 24 22 Funnan 16-3-0 23 23 South Aorlda 12-5·2 22 24 New Mexico 11-4-1 NR 25 Virginia 10-6-2 21 
around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL North Carolina St. at Michigan State 7 p.m., ESPN Ohio State at North Carolina 9 p.m., ESPN 

CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES 
NFL 
Associated Press 

MIAMI -Pro Bowl safety Sean Taylor died Tuesday after he was shot in his home by an apparent intruder, leaving the Washington Redskins in mourning for a teammate who seemed to have reordered his life since becoming a father. 
The 24-year-old player died at Jackson Memorial Hospital, where he had been airlifted after the shooting early Monday. 
"It is with deep regret that a young man had to come to his end so soon," father Pedro Taylor said in a statement on behalf of the family. "Many of his fans loved him because the way he played football. Many of his opponents feared him the way he approached the game. Others misunder­stood him, many appreciat­ed him and his family loved 

him." 

A string of mourners, including Taylor's father, visited the player's home and embraced outside. Authorities entered the home, but it was unclear what they were doing. 
NFL commissioner Roger Goodell said the league will honor Taylor's memory at all games this weekend. 
'This is a terrible tragedy involving the loss of a young man who leaves behind many people struggling to understand it," he said in a statement. 
Redskins coach Joe Gibbs said what he would remem­ber most about Taylor was his excitement about play­ing football. 
"God made him to play football," Gibbs said Tuesday during a news con­ference. "To me, he just loved and thrived on the competition part of it. ... Sean, he loved football. He loved these guys here." 
Gibbs acknowledged it will be hard to concentrate on football this week. 
"I don't know how we'll deal with it, except we'll all do it together," he said. 
Fans already had begun a makeshift memorial by lay­ing flowers on a field near the front entrance to the Redskins' practice facility in Ashburn, Va. 
"This is a terrible, terrible tragedy," Redskins owner Daniel Snyder said. 
He added the team would honor Taylor with a patch on the jersey and the No. 21 on the helmet. 
Redskins teammate 
IN BRIEF Pitcher susP.ended 50 
games for failei:l drug test 
NEW YORK -Former Colorado Rockies pitcher Dan Serafini was sus­pended for 50 games Tuesday, the sec­ond player to fail a test for a perform­ance-enhancing drug this season under Major League Baseball's testing program. 
The 33-year-old left-bander played in three games and allowed two earned runs in one-third of an inning with the Rockies last season. Currently a free agent, Serafini has played for Minnesota, the Chicago Cubs, Pittsburgh, San Diego and Cincinnati. 
Serafini blamed the positive result on substances prescribed by a doctor in Japan, where he was limited to a total of 16 games in 2006 and 2007 because of what he described as "significant injuries." 
"While trying to accelerate the healing process of these injuries, I took substances that were pre­scribed for me by a doctor in Japan," Serafini said in a statement. 
Williams' NFL comeback cut 
short by injunry MIAMI ---Ricky Williams' latest comeback lasted one game. 
The Miami Dolphins running back will miss the rest of the season with a torn chest muscle, according to his agent, Leigh Steinberg. 
Williams was hurt Monday at Pittsburgh, when he played in his first game in nearly two years. He returned following a 1-year sus­pension for his latest violation of the NFL drug policy. 
Steinberg said the arm will be in a sling from four to six weeks and the rehab will take five months. 
But Steinberg said Williams expects to be ready for next sea­son. 
"It's sad given how hopeful Ricky had been about his return to foot­ball and given the amount of effort Ricky had put into his rehabilita­tion. But he's optimistic and hope­ful for the future," Steinberg said. 
page 13 
Clinton Portis also played with Taylor at the University of Miami. He had sensed a new maturity in his close friend. 
"It's hard to expect a man to grow up overnight," Portis said. "But ever since he had his child, it was like a new Sean, and everybody around here knew it. He was always smiling, always happy, always talking about his child." 
Two bouquets were left by a palm tree outside a front gate of Taylor's home. Beside the mailbox, an untouched newspaper lay with news of his shooting. 
Taylor's death comes nearly a year after Broncos cornerback Darrent Williams was killed in a drive-by shooting following an argument at a Denver nightclub on Jan. 1. 

Purdue's Howell to have sec­
ond surgery on shoulder 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. ---Purdue guard Jodi Howell will have a second operation on her left shoulder and will apply for a medical redshirt to gain an extra year of basketball eligibility. 
Howell, a 5-foot-11 junior, had recon­structive surgery for a sprain in the shoulder in September. She will under­go another operation Thursday because of an infection that developed in the shoulder, coach Sharon Versyp said Tuesday. 
Howell, the 2005 Indiana Miss Basketball from Alexandria High School, started all but one game last season, averaging 6.8 points and leading the Boilermakers in 3-point percentage. She averaged 3.4 points as a freshman but missed the final 12 games of that season with a bro­ken foot. 
She also missed most of her junior season in high school after surgery on a torn ligament in her right knee. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, November 28, 2007 
MLS 
Beckhatn scores but LA loses Dovvn Under 
Assodat~d Press 
SYDNEY, Australia -With David Bnckham bent over clt1tching his ankle, the Galaxy's first exhibition outside North America seemed doomnd to go down as a failnd marketing nxercise. 
When thn England midfielder b1~nt a tradnmark free kick into the goal IX minutns later and 1{0,295 pnople ros1~ to their fent clwering, it suddPnly was an unqualified success. 
Brand Beckham eertainly nnhaneed its status in Australia. despite the Galaxy's 5-3 loss to Sydney FC in an exhibition at the Olympie Stadium on Tuesday night. 
As second-half seorer Landon Donovan later said, if Bnckham had gone off in the 27th minute after a clumsy challenge from Sydney playnr Brnndon Santalab. the Galaxy's oflseason tour was as good as over. 
According to local reports, Bnckham is eontractnd to play 55 minutes in naeh match against A L1~ague dubs Sydney horn and at Wellington l'honnix on Saturday. 
"I always try and stay on wlwth1~r I'm injun~d or not," Bnekham said. ''I'm quite a stubborn pnrson. When I want to stay on, there's not many p1~ople who can convince me to eome oil". 
"The first time I'd heard about the 55 minutes I was wntractnd to play was yester­day. I was happy to play the whole game." 
Beckham has built his multi­million dollar fortune, together with pop star wife Victoria, the former Posh Spice, on giving the fans what they want whether it be on the field or the red carpet. 
"It was an entertaining match for the 80,000 fans. That's what they wanted, to see some goals and to see a bit of an exhibition. They got that," he said. 
After fearing a recurrence of the ankle injury he picked up in his last game for Real Madrid that contributed to him missing all but five games in his debut MLS season for Los Angeles, Beckham quickly regained his composure and his touch. 
The Galaxy were trailing 3-0 a minute before halftime when was awarded a free kick 24 yards out following a foul on Carlos Pavon. Enter Beekham. 
lle calmly curled it into the top left eorner of the net. 
The 32-year-old former England captain raised his arms to celebrate and then swapped high-lives with team­mate Kevin Harmse before walking oil" for halftime, giving Sydney's Brazilian import .Juninho a hug on the way to the tunnel. 
"In that sort of situation there's always a certain amount of pressure on me to score, because I think people expect you to do it every time there's a free kick given in that position," Beckham said. 
"I was really happy to score tonight because of the amount of fans and the attention that there has been on myself and this game tonight, so I was really pleased." 


NoTRit~~ 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE £CK CENTER 
phone: (5741631·6316 • www.ndtatolog.com 

SPORTS DRINKS 
Inventor of Gatorade dies 
Cade helped design drink for Florida football team in 1965 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla.-Dr. J. Robert Cade, who invented the sports drink Gatorade and launched a multibillion-dollar industry that the beverage continues to dominate, died Tuesday of kidney failure. lie was 80. 
llis death was announced by the University of Florida, where he and other researchers created Gatorade in 1965 to help the school's football players replace carbo­hydrates and electrolytes lost through sweat while playing in swamp-like heat. 
"Today with his passing, the University of Florida lost a leg­end, lost one of its best friends and lost a creative genius," said Dr. Edward Block, chair­man of the department of medicine in the College of Medicine. "Losing any one of those is huge. When you lose all three in one person, it's something you cannot recoup." 
Now sold in 80 countries in dozens of flavors, Gatorade was born thanks to a question from former Gators Coach Dwayne Douglas, Cade said in a 2005 interview with The Associated Press. 
lie asked, "Doctor, why don't football players wee-wee after a game?" 
"That question changed our lives," Cade said. 
Cade's researchers deter­mined a football player could lose as much as 18 pounds ­90 to 95 percent of it water ­during the three hours it takes 
r~olletf'com 
, ; ONliNE. ON CAMPUS. 
700RC1107 

to play a game. Players sweat­ed away sodium and chloride and lost plasma volume and blood volume. 
Using their research, and about $43 in supplies, they concocted a brew for players to drink while playing football. 
the sports beverage spread to the Gators, who enjoyed a win­ning record and were known as a "second-half team" by outlasting opponents. 
After the Gators beat Georgia Tech 27-12 in the Orange Bowl in 1967, Tech 

The first batch was not exactly coach Bobby a hit. "It sort of tast­
"Today with his 
ed like toilet bowl cleaner," passing, the said Dana Shires, University of one of the 
Florida lost
researchers. 
"I guzzled it a legend." and 1 vomited," Cade said. 
Dr. Edward Block 
T h e 
Chairman, University of
researchers 
Florida Department of
added some sugar and some Medicine lemon juice to improve the 
Dodd told reporters his team lost because, "We didn't have Gatorade ... that made the difference." 
Stokely-Van 
C a m p 
obtained the licensing rights for Gatorade and began mar­keting it as the "beverage 

taste. It was first tested on of champions." PepsiCo Inc. freshmen because now owns the brand, which 
Coach Hay Graves didn't has brought the university want to hurt the varsity team. more than $150 million in roy­Eventually, however, the usc of alties since 1973. 

~~9oking for a P~rt-Time Job? 
Be a Student Assistant at 
The Career Center! 
Positions available for 

Spring 2008 
Please stop by

Student workers provide administrative 
248 Flanner Hall for an 

support to The Career Center Staff 
application! 
PLEAsE li.TTACB RESUME 

For a complete description go_ to the '1'0 
Student Employment website: COMPLETED LICATION http://financialaid.nd.edu/jobboard/ APP 
~r/"· Application Deadline: ., , December 5, 2007.11le c.a... ~,_e,.~r..~-.,e, n_ter . 
-· Que&tion&? Call The Career Center careercenter. nd .edu 57 4-631-8200 
Rejoice! Mass 

December 2, 9p.m. 
Chapel of Notre Dame Our Mother Coleman Morse Center 
Mass in the African-American Tradition Piwt to follow! 
C-M 
For infonnation. contact Judy Madden 631-8508 orJmadden2(f~nd.edu 
Wednesday, November 28, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Former Arkansas coach takes Ole Miss job 
Only hours after resigning in Fayetteville, Houston Nutt accepts Rebels post vacated by Ed Orgeron 
Associated Press 
JACKSON, Miss. -One day, Houston Nutt was leav­ing Arkansas. The next, he was heading to Mississippi. 
Ole Miss will introduce Nutt as its new coach Wednesday, ending a whirl­wind hiring that began when he resigned at Arkansas on 
Monday and agreed to become the Rebels' coach about four hours later. 
Mississippi was without a coach for less than three days. Ed Orgeron was fired on Saturday after three los­ing seasons. 
Rebels athletic director Pete Boone said Tuesday he contacted Nutt on Sunday after hearing a rumor the coach would be resigning. Nutt didn't really want to talk then "because he had a job," Boone said. That soon changed. · 

"This all happened overnight with me," Boone said. 
Nutt agreed to a contract Monday night, a four-year 
The Community of Sant'Egidio Co-Sponsored By NDASK 

NOVEMBER 29, 2007 NOTRE DAME joins Cities for Life 

Cities for Life-Cities Against the Death Penalty VIGIL AT NOTRE DAME GROTTO FOLLOWED BY PRAYER FOR LIFE ON DEATH ROW AT NOTRE DAME LOG CHAPEL 7:00 p.m. Thursday November 29, 2007 
Throughout the world, more than 500 CITIES FOR LIFE are joining the 
largest ever mobilization AGAINST THE DEATH PENALTY, and affirm their 
participation in the initiative 
NO JUSTICE WITHOUT LIFE 

to stop all executions in the world. The World Day "Cities for Life-Cities against the Death Penalty" celebrates the anniversary of the first abolition of the death penalty by the law of a European state, the Great Duchy of Tuscany in 1786. Many cities of all continents will light up their symbolic monuments-from the Colosseum in Rome to the Plaza de Santa Ana in Madrid, from the Central Obelisque in Buenos Aires to the Moneda Palace in Santiago-making a worldwide moral alliance to ask to stop all the capital executions. Participating cities include Rome, Bruxelles, Madrid, Ottawa. Mexico City, Berlin. Barcelona, Florence, Venice, Buenos Aires. Austin, Dallas, Antwerp, Vienna, Naples, Paris, Copenhagen, Stockholm, Reggio Emilia, Bogota, Santiago de Chile and about 400 others. This year many US cities will be participating including New York City, Minneapolis, Washington, D.C., and Boston. The initiative is promoted by the Community of Sant'Egidio and supported by international human rights organizations, gathered in the World Coalition Against the Death Penalty. They join in the effort to have a higher level of justice, justice without revenge, restorative justice that never denies life. "Cities for Life -Cities Against the Death Penalty"! 
For more information contact Mchael Driessen at mdriesse@hotmail.com or Richard LaSalvia at nchard_lasalvia@sbcglobal.net 
deal that will pay him $1.7 million to start and increase by $100,000 each year. He has an option for three more seasons as well, with the opportunity to earn more money with incentives. 
"I think we were thorough in our discussions and cov­ered all the things we need­ed to cover, but I felt like let's get this thing done," Boone said. 
Nutt will be introduced at a news conference on earn­pus in Oxford, ending a fre­netic 48 hours for the school and its new coach. 
"It's human nature not to like change, but I think in this case, change is going to be a good thing," fullback Jason Cook said. "Especially as a player, you get excited when a guy gets hired like 
coach Nutt. He's more than proven in the SEC and proven as a coach that he can take talent and work with it. We're very excited." 
Nutt led Arkansas to an 8-4 record and a likely Cotton Bowl 
Malzahn,

"It's human nature not to 
who left for

like change, but I think in 
Tulsa. 

this case, change is going Calls to Nutt's agent,
to be a good thing. " 
Jimmy Sexton, Jason Cook were not 
Rebels fullback immediately 
berth while the Rebels stum­
bled to a 3-9 finish under 
Orgeron and were winless in 
the SEC for the first time 
since 1982. 
Ole Miss was searching for 
a proven winner after years 
of mediocrity. Nutt neatly 
fits the description. 
He is 111-70 in 15 years as a head coach at Arkansas, Boise State and Murray State, and he's been a win­ner in the SEC. The Little Rock, Ark., native revived the Arkansas program, going 75-48 since he replaced -Danny Ford in 1997. Nutt was 42-38 in conference with one of his biggest wins 

Best Value 1·n Town Collle See Why/ 
,.. Incloor/ Ou:tcloor Tennis a.nJ Ha..ske:tball ,.. Free Ta.nning ,.. Hea:tetl Ptwl ,.. Rela.zing Jacuzzi ,.. Ga:tetl Co:mm uni:t;y ,.. Co:mm uni:t;y Business Cen:ter ,.. N~ Applica:tio.n Fees f~ S:tuden:ts ,.. Close :t~ ever;y:tl:ting_ __ far fro:m ~Jina.r;y! 
eastle1'olnt 
1.801.1. Cl.e~l..a.nd Rd._ Sout:.h Bend, IN 46637
~·4fJtl ,..t'''e11ts Phone: l574) 272-81.1.0 Fax: l574) 272-81.1.4 
'fiJIFI' _ cppj _com-

corning last week when the Razorbacks beat then-No. 1 LSU 50-48 in triple overtime. 
While the Razorbacks head into the postseason, Nutt will be going to the homes of recruits attempting to hold together the promising class Orgeron was assembling. 
The 50-year-old Nutt said Monday he left Arkansas to help mend a split among fans after off-the-field prob­lems were compounded by a difficult season. The Razorbacks started the year ranked and were expected to contend for the SEC West title. 
Arkansas lost its first three SEC games and dropped out of the poll in September, fueling fan discontent over last year's transfer of quar­terback Mitch Mustain and the loss of offensive coordinator G u s 
returned. 
Arkansas 
officials said 
they would 

not com­ment until after Wednesday's formal announcement. 
Nutt takes over a program that's won four or fewer games a season since 2003's 10-win effort under David Cutcliffe. The Rebels won a share of the SEC West that season with Eli Manning at quarterback. 
Since the Rebels are 14-32. Boone fired Cutcliffe in 2004 for not recruiting well enough. 
He had hoped Orgeron, who helped build two national title teams at Southern California as Pete Carroll's recruiting coordi­nator, would bring the kind of energy needed to compete in the tough SEC. 
Orgeron finished 10-2 5 and was routinely the target of fan discontent. 
Boone and Chancellor Robert Khayat endorsed Orgeron midway through the season, but decided to go in a new direction after the Rebels lost five of six to end the year. 
The Rebels have been look­ing for a coach who can pro­duce championships since Johnny Vaught retired in 1970. Vaught won three national titles and six SEC championships between 1947-63. 
The school has fired six of the eight coaches who have come since and a seventh, Steve Sloan, likely would have been fired after five losing seasons had he not left for Duke. 
The last three coaches have been assistants in their first job as leading man. Orgeron, Cutcliffe and Tommy Tuberville went 73­69 over the last 13 years. 
Only Tuberville left on his own, taking the job at Auburn in 1998. 
-
page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, November 28, 2007 
NOVEMBER 29 ~ DECEMBER 1, 2007 
The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture, concerned by the deep cultural divides that characterize so much of our world, has found inspiration in Pope Benedict's Regensburg Address, and has decided to devote its 8th annual Fall conference to the theme: The Dialogue of Cultures. In interdisciplinary fashion, this conference will take up a variety of questions related to both the difficulties and opportunities involved in addressing cultural conflict. 
ALL SESSIONS ARE OPEN TO THE PUBLIC 


ALL EVENTS ARE IN MCKENNA HALL UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED 
THURSDAY. NOVEMBER 29 
7:30p.m. Welcoming Remarks-Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., President, University of Notre Dame 
7:40 -9:00 p.m. The Josef Pieper Keynote Lecture "The Role of Religions in Promoting Dialogue" The Most Reverend Elias Chacour, Archbishop Metropolitan of the Melkite 9:45-11:15 p.m. Film: "Holy Land: Common Ground" 
ETS Theater (Lower Level) 
FRIDAY. NOVEMBER 30 
9:00 -10:15 a.m. Colloquium Sessions Session 1: Panel Discussion: the Use and Abuse of Reason for Life Session 2: Natural Law, Human Rights, and Cultural Dialogue Session 3: Friendship as Dialogue Session 4: Panel Discussion: Benedict XVI's Regensburg Address: Principles, Historical Context, and Issues of Implementation Session 5: Orthodox and Catholic Perspectives on Cultural Dialogue Session 6: Dialogue and Evangelization Session 7: Judaism and Jewish-Christian Dialogue Session 8: Inter-Religious Dialogue Session 9: East-West Encounters Session 10: Faith and Reason Session 11: Timeless Virtue: On the Interaction of Culture and Character in Jane Austen's Novels 
10:45 am -12:00 p.m. Invited Papers Session 1 : "The Ethics of Exit from Iraq: Insights from Just War Thinking" George Lopez University of Notre Dame Session 2: "Reason: Its Proper Humility and Its Proper Power" Margaret Monahan Hogan, University of Portland Session 3: "How to be a European: Questions for Tariq Ramadan" Alasdair Macintyre, University of Notre Dame Session 4: "Benedict XVI's Regensburg Address: AProject of the Universal Dialogue of Cultures, Especially with Islam" Rev. Samir Khalil Samir, S.J., St. Joseph's University, Lebanon 

1:30-2:45p.m. Invited Speakers Session 1: "A Practical Dialogue of Cultures? The Promise and Perils of a Global Human Rights Law" Paolo Carozza University of Notre Dame Session 2: "Two Modernisms, Two Thomisms: Reflections on the Centenary of Pius X's Letter against the Modernists" Russell Hittinger University of Tulsa, Session 3: "Reason and Regensburg: Pope Benedict and the Dialogue of Cultures" Jean Bethke Elshtain University of Chicago Session 4: "Making Peace with Muslims: Faith, Reason, and Religious Violence in Benedict XVI's Regensburg Lecture" Michael Baxter University of Notre Dame 
3:15 -4:45 p.m. Colloquium Sessions Session 1 : The Dialogue with Islam Session 2: Panel Discussion: Christian Responses to Terror­ism: Lessons from Africa and Latin America Session 3: Dialogue in Performance Session 4: Western Philosophy in Dialogue with the East Session 5: Panel Discussion: How Should We Talk About Illegal Immigration and Health Care Allocation? Session 6: Panel Discussion: "Anglo-American Arguments Against Embryos Session 7: Legal and Public Policy Issues Session 8: Panel Discussion: Intercultural Communication Eth­ics: Before the Conversation Begins Session 9: The Image as Locus of Dialogue Session 10: Reason and Tradition Session 11 : The Virtues of Dialogue 
t 

5:00-5:45p.m. Latin Mass (Nevus Ordo) for the Feast of Saint Andrew 
7:30 -9:00 p.m. "Reading Regensburg Right" George Weigel, Distinguished Senior Fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center 
9:45 -10:45 p.m. "God in China: The Struggle for Religious Freedom" 
Adocumentary film produced by ROMEreports and the Becket Institute for Religious Liberty, written and directed by Raphaela Schmid. 
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 1 
9:00-10:15 am Colloquium Sessions Session 1: Regensburg Revisited Session 2: Dialogue and Modern Political Order Session 3: Medieval Resources for the Dialogue of Cultures Session 4: Globalization and Conflict Session 5: Media and the Arts as Forms of Dialogue Session 6: Panel Discussion: Natural Law in American Catholic Social Ethics Session 7: New Perspectives on Justice and Peace Session 8: Cultural Conflicts Affecting Human Life Session 9: The Theology o f Culture Session 10: International Law and Global Justice 
10:45 a.m. -12:00 p.m. Invited Speakers Session 1: "Aristotle and St. Thomas: AModel for the Meeting of Cultures?" Ralph Mcinerny, University of Notre Dame Session 2: "Why Is Benedict XVI Wary of lnculturation? Mis­siological Reflections" Rev. Paul V. Kollman, University of Notre Dame Session 3: "Beard, Neqab and Dialogue: Bridging the Gap be­tween Reason and Reality" Wael Farouq, (optic-Catholic Faculty of Sakakini 
1:30-2:45p.m. Invited Speakers Session 1: "The Dialogue with Atheism: Chesterton's The Ball and the Cross" Ralph Wood, , Baylor University Session 2: "Red States, Blue States: Cultures in Conflict" Jude P. Dougherty, , The Catholic University of America Session 3: "Beyond Dialogue: Keeping the Faith and Knowing the Truth" H. Tristram Engelhardt, Jr., , Rice University Session 4: "Parts of Peace: The Search for Co-Existence Be­tween African Traditional Religion, Islam, and Christianity in 
Africa" Paulinus I. Odozor, C.S.Sp., University of Notre Dame 
3:15-4:45p.m. Colloquium Sessions Session 1 : Panel Discussion: Human Experience and Dialogue of Cultures in the Writings of John Paul II Session 2: Questions Facing Women in an Intercultural Age Session 3: Models of Peacemaking Session 4: Challenges of Multiculturalism Session 5: Philosophical Approaches to Dialogue and Culture Session 6: Political Philosophy and Cultural Dialogue Session 7: Catholic-Baptist Dialogue Session 8: Faith, Reason and Justice in the Free Society Session 9: Maintaining Cultural Identity in a Multicultural World Session 10: The Catholic Understanding o f Culture 
-
Wednesday, November 28, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Griffins 
continued from page 20 
control the ball and the Irish del'lected passes and put back offensive rebounds for easy lay-ins. 
But the Golden Griffins battled back. Two lay-ups from center Laura Buetow and a thrne-pointer from guard Amanda Cavo helped Canisius take an 11-10 lead. 
At this point, the Irish 
press took over. After a jumper by Schrader put the Irish ahead 17-11, Notre Dame went on an 18-4 run to make the score 35-15 midway through the first half. 
"We just like to pressure the offense," Allen said. "We want to force them into turnovers and that's some­thing we're doing pretty well this year." 
Notre Dame led 49-22 at the half. In the beginning of the sec-


ond half, Schrader took the ball into the lane until the defense collapsed towards her. She then hit a wide-open Melissa D'Amico, who laid the ball in. Schrader lived in the paint all game and either found the open man when she drew extra defenders or made the defense pay by hit­ting the 10-foot jumper. 
"She is really our best zone offensive player in the high post," McGraw said. "She's strong, the guards aren't afraid to throw the ball to her because she'll catch it, and she's really good at see­ing the floor and finding someone in there and push­ing to make the shots. She's really hard to guard in there." 
The Griffins had to deal with foul trouble. Point guard Brittane Russell had three fouls in the first half and guard Micayla Drysdale had four. 
"Our foul trouble killed us because we really, really have no depth at all with the injuries we have," Zeh said. 
Notre Dame forced two timeouts in the first five min­utes of the second half­one on an inbounds play and another in play -due to their tough defense. 
McGraw said the Irish can do better. 
"Overall I think we haven't really scratched the surface of our potential yet," McGraw said. "We can be a really formidable team when we have everybody going on all cylinders." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

McAlarney 
continued from page 20 
shot. In short, he needs to be more like Falls. 
''I'm going to try to mimic him in certain situations, although I am a different player," McA!arney said. 
Notre Dame has had plenty {)f inside scoring this season, with forwards Rob Kurz and Luke Harangody averaging 15.2 and 
17.0 points per game, respec­tively. 
But until McAlarney's recent hot streak, Notre Dame was lacking in sufficient scoring from Its guards -something it will need against No. 25 Kansas State next week and once the Big East season starts. 
Point guard Tory Jackson, while averaging more than five assists per game, has compiled only six points per contest and has hit a single three-pointer this season. 
Forwards Hyan Ayers and Luke Zeller have some jump shooting ability, but their height often necessitates them setting up closer to the basket. So most of the outside shooting respon­sibility falls on McAlarney ­and in the last two games, he's started to meet that pressure. 
"I feel like I need to be the gunslinger," he said. "If the other team makes a run, and then I hit a three, that can be a dagger." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, November 28, 2007 

Grizzlies 
continued from page 20 
hut at tho samn timn we have to lw rnady to play." 
Thn Irish had to wait morn than two we11ks last snason bnforn Uwir first tournament ganw whnn thny dld'nated Illinois-Chicago 1-0 at home. 
Oakland played on 
an~ eurrnntly tied for the team lead in goals scored, with six each. 
Irish senior keeper Chris Cahill. who holds a Notre Dame record with three tour­nament shutouts, will have his hands full keeping the Grizzlies out of the.net. 
"Thny don't have a lot of weaknesses, it will require full focus from our guys," Clark 
said. 
Notre Dame 
Saturday in thn and Oakland
"It's very important 
op1~ning round have not faced of' the tourna­that we don 't look eaeh other in a 
ment, taking past each step along regular game 
down in-state since 1979,
the way." 
rival Michigan but the two Statn 2-1. The teams scrim­win avenged a Bobby Clark mage regular­3-0 loss to tlw Irish coach ly in the 
Spartans earlier in the sP.ason. 
Notre Dame also lost in East Lansing this year. Michigan State came away with a 1-0 shutout victo­ry on College Field when the two teams met on Oct. 10. 
"[Oakland) went somewhere we weren't able to go to this year," Clark said. "They went to East Lansing and carne out with a win. They're a solid tnam and it was a good game, it went back and forth but I was irnprnssed with snveral very good playnrs." 
Thn (;rizzlins havn bnen led this ynar by center midfielder Piotr Nowak. who has ninn assists and fivn goals on the snason. Thn 5-foot-1 0 junior also scored Oakland's first goal against the Spartans in its first round victory. 
Snnior Michanl Heyes and sophomorn Snbastian Harris 
spring. Last 
year's scrim­
mage, which lasted 50 minutes, ended in a tie. 
Clark said the combination of a shorter game and the fact that both teams empty out their benches prevented either team from really seeing their opponent's strength. 
The Irish spent four days last week practicing outside to prepare for whatever weather awaits them tonight. 
"I always say to them, 'Don't complain about playing in the cold. because that means you're doing well.' This time of' year it is just something you have to play through," Clark said. 
Tlw game is at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

been very good but she just "We didn't have a starter in had so much action and so the beginning of the season
Karas 
much she had to because Kelsey continued from page 20 deal with. She and Nikki are 
was just fantas­"Her confidence just great goalkeep-
Louisville Sept. 28, the Irish tic." ers," Karas
built and built and 
are officially 15-0-1, with the Although she said. "They draw being a penalty-kicks is reluctant to she hasn 't let us push me in loss to West Virginia in the Big talk about her­down." practice and East tournament final. Karas self, Karas said they're great has allowed only eight goals she was always support."
Randy Waldrum 
while starting every contest confident, even Waldrum is during that span. after she almost Irish coach happy with his 
Against North Carolina, lost her starting Karas made five saves, includ­job at the begin­ing two on second-half shots ning of the season. by the Tar Heels' star, mid­''I'm not doing anything dif­
fielder Nikki Washington that appeared headed for the back of the net. And with 30 seconds remain­ing, Karas made a sliding save to stop a North Carolina break­away and secure the victory for the Irish. 
"That was prob­ably her best 
''I'm not doing anything different than my first three years here except now I have a chance to be on the field. " 
Lauren Karas Irish goalkeeper 
ferent than my first three years here except now I have a chance 
to  be  on  the  
field,"  she  
said.  

The senior is also quick to credit Notre Dame's other goalies, freshman Nikki Weiss 
overall game in her four years and sophomore Kelsey here," Waldrum said. "She's Lysander, for keeping her had some games where she's sharp throughout the season. 
choice  for  
starter.  
"Behind the seenes,  we sat  

down with her and we just came to the fact that we were going to live with her or die with her and I think that's really helped her confidence," Waldrum said. "She's hitting her stride around the right time." 
'!;he Irish host Duke Friday with only that game standing between them and a trip to the College Cup. 
"They haven't done anything less than we've done," Karas said of the Blue Devils. "It's an even playing field right now." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 



Wednesday, November 28, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 


HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
~Mffi)1JE.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
MUTOH 
[J I 
©2007 Tribtlne Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved. 
NIORB 
j
I I r (j
tPRAMTE I 


WHE:N THE: CLASS GOT ROWDY, THE
) [) 
MATH TI:AC.HER 010 
www.jumble.com 

A--­I REDUMEj 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
rJ r [J 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: .. rI I I I I J' ON rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterda 's IJumbles: SWASH FINAL MOTIVE GOLFER y Answer: What the scientists decided to do when they studied the icebergs -GO WITH THE "FLOE" 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jaleel V.'hite, 31; Brooke Langton, 37; Fisher Steve.ns, 44; Caroline Kennedy, 50 
Happy Birthday: Deals can be made, trips planned and new beginnings developed and put into motion. Change is good and should be the start of a new lifestyle. direction or 
an even better you. Your nmnbers are 4. 11, 25, '17, 4'1. 45 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Don't take chances with emotional matters. You may feel slighted or jealous but avoid a confrontation. Chances are good you are feeling in­secure for reasons that have nothing to do with what others are doing or saying. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Do things around the house that will make your life. simpler and more comfortable. A reform will be put into place if you help a cause you 
believe in. Your passionate actions will secure you a prestigious position. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): If you've been thinking about changing your vocation, asking for a raise or starting your own business, you should do something about it today. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You have a good handle on what's happening around you. You have to make the changes that \\~ll help control some of the problems you 
have been facing. Masking or ignoring them will only make matters worse. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Secrets must be kept if you want to get ahead. Mingle with people in your industry or those with similar interests. You can make or receive a pro­posal that can change your direction or help you follow your own path. 3 stars 
VmGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Do for others and you will avoid complaints. Someone you are dose to may be a burden because of overindulgence, overspending or taking up too much of your time. 3 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You have a handle on just about everything today, how­
ever, don't be surprised if someone tries to blame you for something or takes credit for 
your work. Explain the situation practically and precisely. Put time aside for your one and ouly. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You have everything working in your favor except per­haps your own confidence. You can make moves that will change your life forever if you stop talking and start doing. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A little love may seem harmless enough but. if it 
is with someone you work \Vith or someone involved with another, you have a prob­
lem. Money can be made. Problems with institutions can be solved and debts collected and paid off. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't miss out on something because you are being played with emotionally. You have to draw the line and stop anyone who is taking ad­vantage of you. A contract bas to be put into place before you move forward. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Do a little good for someone else. You can make an impression by setting a trend or by doing something special for someone you love. Now is not the time to hide information or to lie about your intentions. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Do something fun. playful and inspirational. By letting go and enjoying yourself, you will discover solutions to some of the things that have been lroubling you. Talks will lead to mending old friendships. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are always looking for something new to explore whether it is a friendship. a skill or a place you've never been. Education. travel and helping others will help you discover your talents and attributes. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for youngI I M 0 M Y A R N N A T E solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, November 28, 2007 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
McAlamey's shot heating up at home 
By CHRIS KHOREY Spons EJitor 
Kyle McAiarney wanted the ball. Actually, that's an under­statement. "I was dying to get the ball," he said. 
That's how "in the zone" the junior guard was Monday against Colgate. lie shot 7 -for­
I 0 from behind the arc against the Haiders, seoring a career-high 25 points. 
McAiarney said he was so confident in his shot that he krww he was going to score "before I even got the ball." 
"Once you hit one, then you hit another one, then you're itehing to get the next one oil'," he said. 
The Colgate game was tho seeond in a row in whieh McAiarney has eaught fire from long range. Against Youngstown Statn on Saturday, he was 5-l'or-1 0 from 3-point range and sr.orml 2:~ points. 
But McAlarnny's shooting hasn't always btH'n sharp. Befort~ the Youngstown Stat!~ game, lw was 6-l'or-20 from 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Tenacious defense leads to blovvout 
Squadforces Canisius into 29 turnovers with swarmingfull-court pressure 

MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish host Oakland in second round of NCAA Tournament 
By DAN MURPHY Assodatt· Sports EJitor 
Last ynar Notre Dame advanced to the quarterfinal round of the NCAA Tournament for the first time in program history. This August. thn tnam made it one of tht~ir season's goals to top that mark. 
The Irish will take thn first stt~p towards reaching that goal tonight when they face Oakland in the seeond round of the tour­nament. 
"Certainly one of our goals is to take it as far as we ean," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "It's very important that we don't look beyond each step along the way. It's one step at a time and Oakland is the first step." 
No. 10 Notre Dame earned a first round bye following their run to the Big East finals where they lost 2-0 to Connecticut on the Huskies' home turf Nov. 18. Clark thinks tla~ ten days off has prepared the team for aetion against the Golden Grizzlif~s tonight. 
"We've benn playing so many games, we were able to top up in our fitness," he said. "I think it will make us hungry to play, 
see GRIZZLIES/page 18 

Crunch time 
long range on the season and was coming off a seven-point performance in Notre Dame's 70-69 loss to Georgia Tech at the Paradise Jam tournament in the U.S. Virigin Islands. 
McAiarney said part of the reason for his improvement is that the last two games have been at the Joyce Center, after Notre Dame played three games in the Virgin Islands. 
"This is our home floor," he said. "We play here every day. It's a lot easier to get into a rhythm here than anywhere else." 
MeAlarney also has been adjusting to his role as Notre Dame's primary outside shoot­er. Last season, before his sus­pension in January, McAiarney was the starting point guard. His main respon­sibility was to find his fellow guards, especially then-senior Colin Falls, for open shots. lie needed to shoot from the out­side only when he found him­sell' wide open. 
But this year, MeAiarney is tho starting shooting guard for the Irish -and his team nemls him to look for his own 
see MCALARNEY/page 17 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 

Guard Ashley Barlow scored 18 points and had six assists and guard Charel Allen added 17 points as Notre Dame beat Canisius 93-47 Tuesday at the Joyce Center. 
The Irish (5-1) kept the Golden Griffins offense from creating any momentum with a tenacious full-court press that helped it create 29 turnovers, 18 of which came in the first half. 
"We like the press. We're pretty good at it," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "That's how we score a lot of points in transition. We like to play that way, we're more com­fortable playing this way." 
Canisius coach Terry Zeh said Notre Dame's size and athleticism prevented the Griffins (3-2) from establish­ing their offense. 
"We really struggled with their pressure·as you could see," Zeh said. "Our point guard is small and you have (Irish forward] Devereaux Peters at the top of that press, or any of their athletic players at the top of that press, and we couldn't see over that at all. And when we 
I Irish sophomore Michael Thomas passes in Notre Dame's 1-0 win over St. John's on Nov. 11. The team faces Oakland tonight at 7:30 in the second round of the NCAA Tournament. 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Team finds goalkeeper vvithKaras 
By FRAN TOLAN Spons Writer 
Three months ago, Notre Dame did not have an estab­lished starting goalkeeper. 
Heturning starter senior Lauren Karas, sophomore Kelsey Lysander and freshman Nikki Weiss each auditioned daily for the right to stand between the pipes for the Irish. 
But now, after Karas led the team to a 3-2 upset victory of No. 4 North Carolina in the NCAA Hound of 16 Sunday, hardly a question remains. 
Karas, who has been the unquestioned starter since Sept. 28, made clutch save after clutch save against the Tar lleels and displayed the poise she has gained since winning the permanent starter job. 
"We made that decision (to start KarasJ around the Louisville game to just let her go and let her run with it," Irish coach Handy Waldrum said. "It seems to have really helped her confidence. It just built and built and she hasn't let us down." 
Since a 1-0 win over 
see KARAS/page 18 

did get it over the top we couldn't attack and make them pay at all." 
The turnovers, Zeh said, came partly as a result of his team's lack of depth and injuries. 
"We're young and injured right now," he said. "For a team of our level to compete, you've got to take care of the basketball." 
Five Notre Dame players scored in double figures in the game. Along with Barlow and Allen, Peters scored 12 points and guards Lindsay Schrader and Brittany Mallory had 10 each. 
The Irish jumped out to an 8-0 lead in the first 1:28 of the game. Canisius failed to 
see GRIFFINS/page 17 






