

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Online service offers restaurant review-s 
By BECKY HOGAN News Wrircr 
It may sound too good to be true, but an up-and-com­ing online service called NDtogo.com is promising students free food and a guide to great restaurants in South Bend. 
NDtogo is "armed with a sixth sense for good deals and a passion for hole-in­the-wall restaurants and lit­tle-known bars ... to help students drink and dine bet­ter and more cheaply," according to its Web site. 

Its three founders ­including Notre Dame alum­ni Rudy Reyes Jr. and OJ DiDonna -decided to intro­duce South Bend restau­rants, bars and eateries to stud1mts through its new Web site, NDtogo.com, expected to be fully usable later this month. Ian Runyon, a graduate of DePauw University, is also a cofounder of the company. 
"The concept is basically that local South Bend restaurants really want to have students come into their restaurants, Reyes said. "We are basically try­ing to bring restaurants into campus through the Internet." 
The idea was entered in the McCloskey Business Plan Competition last October through Mendoza's Gigot Center of Entrepreneurial Studies, Reyes said. While he and his business partners 
see SITE/page 9 


Seniors graduate to seminary 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT NewsWrirer 
Most Notre Dame seniors' plans for life after graduation in· May fall into the categories of starting a new job, attending graduate school or partici­pating in volunteer service work. 
But a select few will choose a dif­ferent kind of service when they join a religious order after commence­ment 
Senior Christian Hoeffel is current­ly applying to the novitiate in the Society of Jesus, also known as the Jesuits. This is the first step toward taking the vows of a member of the religious order. 
Hoeffel said he has felt called to enter the priesthood since second grade. 
The St. Edward's resident said he chose to enter the Jesuit order, even though Notre Dame was founded by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, because the Jesuits seemed a better 
see SEMINARY/page 4 

The Old College program at Notre Dame, in the build­ing shown above, prepares young men for the seminary. 
Brown, Braun feel confident in new roles 
started tackling is the Guest By EMMA DRISCOLL Meal Exchange program," News Wrirer 
Brown said. "We met with 
[Director of Food Services] 
Sunday was the first day of Dave Prentkowski. We are their term. but student body working with him to survey president Liz Brown and vice the student body." president Maris Braun are Brown said the surveys for already working hard and the program -which would feeling confident. allow students to use some of 
"It's pretty surreal even just their meals for guests visiting to be sitting in the office right campus -will help determine now," Brown said. "But we're what meals can be converted definitely excited." for guests and how many stu­
Braun agreed. dents plan to use the program. 
"It's exciting and over­Since Brown and Braun whelming at the same time," want the program to be in she said. place by next year, Brown said 
Although they just took over, it is a "top priority" right now. Brown and Braun are already Braun said the two have working to implement some of planned meetings about mak­the goals on their platform. ing Domer Dollars usable in 
"I think one of the biggest things that we've already see BROWN/page 6 




Law School drops in national rankings 
Notre Dame falls in U.S. News and World Report list from 22 to 28, lowest position in 6 years 
past six years. The Law By KEN FOWLER School tied for No. 26 in

U.S. News and World Report Law School Rankings 
NewsWrirer 2000 and No. 27 in 2001. It was No. 24 in 2002, tied for 

EmploymentPeer LawyerI Judge Acceptance Rate Y months Notre Dame fell six places No. 22 in 2003 and peaked Rank Schooi Assessment Assessment Rate after graduation and out of the top 25 in the in a tie for No. 20 in 2004. annual law school rankings In an e-mail sent to Law 
I. Yale 4.Y 4.8 6.8%, 9Y.6%, published Friday by U.S. School students Friday, Dean News and World Report. Patricia O'Hara said officials 
2t. Harvard 4.8 4.8 12.6'X, 100.0% 
After placing in a tie for in the Law School would 2t. Stanford 4.7 4.8 8.7% 98.1% both No. 24 in 2005 and No. study the data used in the 22 in 2006, Notre Dame tied rankings "in an effort to bet­
4. NYU 4.6 4.6 21.1% 9Y.3% with Boston College and the ter understand our position
5. Columbia 4.6 4.7 14.7% lJY.2'Yo 
University of Washington for relative to our peers.". ----------------------------------------------------------No. 28 in the most recent According to the rankings, 
standings, which were based 5.2 percent of 2005 Notre

28t. Boston College 3.3 3.7 1Y.4% 98.4% 
on data from the graduating Dame Law School graduates 28t. Notre Dame 3.3 3.8 24.4% 94.8% Class of 2005 and incoming failed to earn legal employ­9l)-,40;[, Class of 2006. ment within nine months of
28t. Washington 3.1 3.5 21.1% "The placement was the
Source: U.S. News and World Rc ur~.Law Sdwol Rankin 'S 
lowest for Notre Dame in the see RANKINGS/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

OIT fights security breaches 
University plans to bolster protections 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Associare News Edi ror 

Following several publicized security breaches this winter and last, the Office of Information Technologies IOIT) plans to upgrade Notre Dame's standards of information secu­rity and its tools to combat network hackers, University officials said. 
The initiative comes after an official's laptop was stolen in December and sensitive infor­mation related to University employees -including Social Security numbers and salary figures -was potentially exposed, OIT Chief Information Officer Gordon Wishon said. 
However, OIT began making upgrades before the incident, Wishon said. Last summer, the University hired Ernst & Young, a professional services firm, to give an independent and objective assessment of the security systems on cam­pus. 
Ernst & Young, he said,. determined the University needed to improve its policies regarding the management of sensitive data within and across departments and offices, the inherent flaws of the Notre Dame network, and the education and awareness of students and employees regarding the handling and 
see OIT/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, April 2, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
April Fool's 111ediocrity 
I woke up Sunday morning (fine, Sunday afternoon) with every intention of starting my day early, being produc­tive and getting all of my work done in time for opening night of Major Bill Brink League Baseball. 
Of course, like every other Sports Sunday, I hit a 
Production Editor 
roadblock that hindered my goal. This road­block, however, was more tangible than the others; I opened my door on the way 
to the bath:room to find what looked like a solid steel wall barricading me into my 
room. 
It turned out to be duct tape, but it contained a type-set sign indicative of just what day it was. The sign simply said-"April Fools." 
One of the most entertaining days of the year, April Fool's Day came and went again yesterday without a bona fide prank. The duct tape was good, yes, but the pranks just went downhill from there. 
I received an e-mail from my AR that the Zoo, Fisher Hall's claim-to-fame party held the night before the Fisher Regatta, had been cancelled. Rea..<;ons cited -too many rules infractions and the fact that next year's RAs are abroad. Fat chance. 
Later, my girlfriend tried to convince me that she was taken to the hospital Saturday night after falling out of a van, landing on a broken bottle and slicing her arm open. Although this is some­thing she would conceivably do, she for­got she talked to me the night before and made no mention of a hospital trip. 
\Vhat happened to the good April Fool's Day pranks? The day used to be filled with brilliantly conceived debaucheries that could bring the cho­sen victim to tears. 
My cousin once busted out a bottle of ketchup and a carving knife, laid out a murder scene and went to town on his mother and sisters. like any good moth­er would, she went bonkers, then flipped out again once she found it to be a prank. 
ESPN baseball analyst Peter Gammons once convinced ESPN Radio host Dan Patrick that former player and manager Pete Rose, who received a lifetime ban from baseball for gambling, was going to be allowed into the Hall of Fame. He deceived not only Patrick but also the millions of listeners glued to their radios. 
The best prank I've heard of to date came from my high school days. A girl, in a heartless act of aggression/radiant display of ingenuity, told her boyfriend she was pregnant. Needless to say, the poor young man was too busy trying to restart his heart beat and rearrange his future to remember the date. 
The meaning of the day careened downhill from the glory days ofthe past. People need to take their April 1st more seriously in the future. 
\Vhy didn't I think of something, you may ask? A creative, naughty idea to break the streak of disappointing pranks? My Saturday was jam-packed. I was too busy watching Entourage DVDs and imagining what my life would be like ifI were Turtle. 
You know, Turtle would pull some sweet April Fool's shenanigans. Call it inspiration for next year. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­cion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comacr us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO'S YOUR PICK FOR THE MEN'S NCAA FINAL? 


John Busch  Scott Deeney  Katie Geisler  Michael Dean  Zeina Shanata  
sophomore Fisher  junior Keough  sophomore Lyons  freshman Siegfried  freshman Howard  
"Florida. You can't root for OSU."  "Ohio State... or else my girlfriend would  "Florida-It's my hometown."  "Florida-I'm from the South."  "Florida. Ohio State deserves to lose by 27  





kill me." 


ture -called "My Sweet Lord" -amid a deluge of complaints from Catholics, including Cardinal Edward Egan. 
They were offended by the confection, which does not ·include the loincloth typical in religious portray­als of Christ. Many also were outraged that the gallery planned to display the sculpture during Holy Week. The exhibit was to have run from Monday through Easter Sunday inside Manhattan's Roger Smith Hotel. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Google plays April Fool's prank 
SAN FRANCISCO Presiding over a company with a market value of $143 billion apparently gives Silicon Valley's most famous billionaires a good sense of humor -and a case of corporate potty mouth. 
Senior executives at Google Inc. launched their annual April Fools' Day prank Sunday, posting a link on the company's home page to a site offer­ing consumers free high­speed wireless Internet through their home plumb­ing systems. 
Chocolate Jesus causes outrage 
NEW YORK An anatomically correct chocolate sculpture of Jesus Christ infuriated Catholics and even led to threats, but the artist says offers to buy or exhibit the piece have been pouring in. 
Artist Cosimo Cavallaro said Saturday that because of "some people who are fanatics" and the threats he received, he had stored the sculpture in a refriger­ated truck in an undis­closed location. 
A Manhattan gallery on Friday called off a planned exhibit of the 6-foot sculp­

,
again. 
IN BRIEF 

FRONTLINE will present a film and lecture on the topic: "Is Walmart Good for America" today from 4:30 p.m to 6 in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium, room C--100. 
Notre Dame men's baseball will play Oakland Tuesday at 
5:05 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Campus-wide Stations of the Cross will be held Tuesday at 7 
p.m. The procession will depart from the Grotto. 
The Ballroom Dance Club will be teaching the Hustle and Mambo in 205 Rockne Memorial from 8 p.m. to 10:30 on Wednesday. All Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students are invited with a valid ID. The cost if $4 a night. 
The Lord's Supper Mass will be held for Holy Thursday at 5 
p.m. in the Basiliea of the Sacred Heart. 
Classes will be eancelled from Friday through Monday in observance of the Easter holiday. Classes will resume Tuesday. 
Good Friday Mass to cele­brate the Lord's passion will be held at 3 p.m. Friday in the Basiliea of the Sacred Heart. 
Ben Hur will be shown as a silent film with piano accom­paniment by Dave Drazin on Friday at 7 p.m. in DPAC's Browning Cinema. The cost is $3 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH LOW 

*~*~* 
HIGH 39 LOW 24 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
c::: 
LLI 
:::c 
~ 
LLI 
~ 
..J 
c( (,) 


0 
HIGH 65 HIGH 55 HIGH 42
...I LOW 55 LOW 45 LOW 28 

70 
40 


Monday, April 2, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

What are you doing next summer? 


May 14-June 15, 2008 

./All t·eturning ND & St. Mary's undergraduates eligible ./Four and one-half week study in London '\/"'Mid session study/travel to Paris, Nornutndy, Belfast, or A1nsterdam ./Earn 6 credit hours ./Still have 2 months of sun1n1er left when .,you return! 
Information Sessions for 2008 & 2009 Programmes: 
ril

'  '  
11:45 to 12:30 P.M.  DeBartolo tOt  
or  5:00 to 6:00P.M.  lleBartolo 126  



Show takes modern approach to culture 
By BRIGID FENLON 
News Writer 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents as well as prospective high school seniors on campus for Spring Visitation weekend experi­enced an exhibition of Latin culture Friday at La Alianza's annual Latin Expressions event. 
The show, a mix of songs, dances and poetry recitations, was held in Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. The theme for this year's performance was MetropoLatino, a celebration of urban Latino life. 
Sophomore Prisma Garcia said she enjoyed the performances that expanded on the theme of urban culture. 
"One of the most interesting parts was when the emcee came out after the show and displayed a variety of nags from Hispanic regions around the world as a sign of unity," Garcia said. 
Senior Nancy Weaver, who has helped with the show for four con­secutive years, said the production describes what it is like to be a Latino and so "enhances the sense of community for Latinos at Notre Dame." 
"One of the purposes is to see what the Latino community at Notre Dame is about and to show prospects that there are several different ways to express your cul­ture," Weaver said. 
For high school seniors from underrepresented ethnic groups, the show gives them a glimpse into the cultural experiences of students at Notre Dame, Garcia said. 
"This helps the prospective stu­dents to realize that despite the fact that they will be a minority on campus, they will not lose their cul­ture upon their arrival," she said. 
But Latin Expressions is not just for minority students, Garcia said. 
"Latin Expressions is a show that can be universally understood and appreciated. It is open to all cul­tures, and everyone can find enjoy­ment," Garcia said. 
The acts performed to a full audi­ence who remained impressed and intrigued throughout, Weaver said. 
This year's show featured per­formances from a more diverse variety of cultures in Latin America, sophomore Abby Salazar said. 
"This wider range added more variety and engaged more of the audience, as more people were able to identify with the unique tra­ditions of their culture," said Salazar, who performed a Mariachi dance. 
The modern take on Latin culture was also a popular change, she said. 
"Last year was a cultural look into Latino culture. This year was much more modern which drew a very diverse audience," Salazar said. 
Contact Brigid Fenlon at bfenlon@nd.edu 

ICPA presents avvards to ND student print publications 
Observer Staff Report 

The Observer was named the third-best Indiana daily student newspaper at the annual Indiana Collegiate Press Association awards cere­mony Saturday, winning awards in 12 categories. 
The Observer staff earned first place in the Stand-Alone Section cate­gory for its April 6, 2006 issue, which provided special coverage· of University President Father John Jenkins' closing statement on aca­demic freedom and Catholic character. 
The 2006-07 editorial board also earned first place in the Best Staff Editorial category for "Academic Monologues Belong at ND," which reviewed the "Vagina Monologues" controversy. 
Numerous staff mem­bers captured a variety of individual honors as well. 
Current Editor in Chief Maddie Hanna won first place in the Best News Feature Story category for "ND evacuees return from Lebanon," a profile of the journeys a Notre Dame student and a pro­fessor and his family took to the U.S. from Lebanon 
after Israel invaded the country last summer. 
Other first place honors went to current Managing Editor Ken Fowler in the Best Sports News category for "Changing Regulations," an investigation of the Notre Dame athletic department's restrictions on media access to the football program, and to current Assistant Managing Editor Mary Kate Malone and former Assistant News Editor Katie Perry in the Best Non-Deadline News Reporting category for "Administrators question Facebook postings," an examination of Notre Dame's usage of informa­tion gathered from Facebook in disciplinary matters. 
Second place honors went to former News Editor Kate Antonacci for "ND Senior Killed," for coverage of the November 2006 death of Caitlin Brann. 
Hanna, Antonacci, and former Photo Editor Claire Kelley won second place for "Notre Dame connects with Church in Rome," a series of stories and pictures on the University Board of Trustees meetings held last February in Rome. 
Fowler also won second place for "The Overachievers," a profile of football walk-ons Matt Augustyn and John Lyons. Columnist Joey Falco won second place for "Brokeback Country," a Viewpoint column about the controversy surrounding the 2006 film "Brokeback Mountain." 
Assistant Scene Editor Cassie Belek won second place in the Best Entertainment column category for "Confessions of a soap opera fan." 
Third place awards in the Best Stand-Alone Section category went to The Observer staff for "40 years," published on the paper's 40th anniver­sary. 
Current Sports Editor Chris Khorey also won third place in Best Sports Column for "It's all or nothing for the nation's best squad," a reflection on women's soccer at Notre Dame. 
Other Notre Dame pub­lications represented at the ICPA convention included Scholastic, named the top news mag­azine; the Juggler, named the best literary maga­zine; and the Dome, named the second-best yearbook. 
Applications are available at 223 Brownson Hall or on-line at www.nd.edu/-sumlon 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 2, 2007 
Se01inary 
continued from page 1 
"fit" to him than other orders. 

"1 looked into lots of orders, including the Jesuits and Holy Cross, before I made a deci­sion," Hoeffel said. "It's like looking for colleges -I didn't want to limit myself, but I think I found my calling with the Jesuits." 
Although Hoeffel did not choose Holy Cross, he said he found a great source of sup­port for his decision to enter the priesthood since he has been at Notre Dame. 
"I've never heard one person here say a bad thing about the Jesuits," Hoeffel said. "There's a big world outside Notre Dame, and the overriding issue is, how can we each best serve the Church?" 
Another Notre Dame senior decided the best answer to that question is through joining the Congregation of the Holy Cross. 
Dustin VonHandorf is part of Old College, Notre Dame's undergraduate seminary pro­gram. 
He got involved in spiritual life at Notre Dame by helping coordinate Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart during his first three years in college before he entered Old College in the fall. 
VonHandorf decided to explore the priesthood after some people he knew encour­aged him to consider it during 

Rankings 
continued from page 1 

graduating. Of schools ranked in the top 30, only Washington and Lee University had a worse employment rate than Notre Dame, and only four schools in the top 50 were lower than Notre Dame in the category. 
U.S. News and World Report's Web site said the employment category was worth 18 percent of the overall ranking. 
"The U.S. News formula for determining rankings is subject to a certain amount of vagueness and weights only those variables that the magazine deems impor­tant in assessing schools," O'Hara said in her e-mail to students. "Many legal educators fmd this approach and the criteria that the magazine uses to be reduc­tionist. At the same time, we live in the real world with market forces. For good or ill, the rank­ings are a reality with which we live, and of which we are cog­nizant." 
Student reaction varied, with some students attributing the drop to O'Hara's leadership and others saying the change should be viewed as a slight fluctuation with limited insight into the future of the Law School. 
"Initially I guess I was disap­pointed but not that surprised, and now I guess it's just caused me to think about why it hap­pened," said Melissa Nunez, a third-year law student. "There's a lot of reasons the school ... isn't doing its best to be a university law school." 
Nunez cited what she called a limited number of academically rigorous courses and a high number of cancelled courses as problems that have hurt stu­dents' training and, indirectly, the rankings. 
Third-year law student Derek Muller, however, said the Law School's problems are notewor­thy but not germane to the rank­ings. 
his junior year. He said the first time he visited Moreau Seminary -where prospective Holy Cross priests are trained -his reaction was ''I'm home." 
For students considering the priesthood, Old College is a way for them to explore their vocation, Old College Assistant Director Father Kevin Russeau said. 
"Even if students in Old College don't become priests, they receive formation to be good Catholic men," Russeau said. 
Unlike most dorms, Old College doesn't have a football team, resident assistants or 40 new freshmen every year. 
What it does have in abun­dance is "community," VonHandorf said. 
"Community here is very dif­ferent from dorm life," VonHandorf said. "Everyone wants to be here [at Old College]. No one gets put here randomly." 
Old College's staff has a more hands-on role in the spiritual development of residents than most dorms, he said. 
"We have weekly formation meetings with the staff, and one of the first things we do is choose a spiritual director," VonHandorf said. 
The spiritual director pro­vides an important benefit to Old College life, VonHandorf said. 
"They're available to ask questions and talk about what's on our mind when we need to," he said. 
He noted a turnover in the Law School's admissions office for the relevant incoming class and the unusually high number of admit­ted students that year. Notre Dame accepted 24.4 percent of applicants in 2006. 
"The numbers, I think, they reflected the class," Muller said. 
Muller said the University should address the discrepancy between evaluations by other schools and the judgments by those on the bar and on the bench. While Notre Dame received a score of 3.8 out of 5.0 from judges and lawyers, law school deans and long-tenured faculty from peer institutions gave the school a 3.3. 
"Notre Dame's reputation in the legal community, at least among law schools, has not improved, despite a lot of these excellent, outstanding young fac­ulty [at Notre Dame Law School]," Muller said. 
While Notre Dame's ranking slipped, its cost remained rela­tively moderate in comparison to other top law schools. 
According to statistics released by U.S. News and World Report, Notre Dame's yearly cost of $48,220 -which included tuition, room and board, books and "other expenses" -was 33rd among private law schools. At least nine public law schools -including Connecticut, Wayne State, Maryland, all four California state law schools, Virginia and Michigan -were more expensive for out-of-state students than Notre Dame, according to the available data. 
Notre Dame tied for ninth with Harvard Law School in the sub­field of trial advocacy but was unranked in all other specialties -tax law, legal writing, interna­tional law, intellectual property law, healthcare law, environmen­tal law, dispute resolution and clinical training. 
The specialty rankings did not factor into the overall score. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

Although VonHandorf Russeau said, and while proba­trend, but interest in exploring entered as a senior, most Old bly only one quarter of the vocations in college seems to College residents enter in their men in formation at Old be increasing lately," Russeau freshman, sophomore or junior College and Moreau Seminary said. years, and spend their senior will profess vows as priests, year at Moreau Seminary. there is a rising "interest" in 
There are 12 men currently vocations, Russeau said. Contact John-Paul Witt at enrolled in Old College, "It's hard to point out a jwittl@nd.edu 
Conte and ListeD Conte and Read Conte and Play Lectio@Eievea A Late-Night Caba:ret fo:r the Soul 11:00 pm every Tuesday at Recker's Free pizza supplied by First Year of Studies! April 3 featuring: Music by Nick and Josh Gunty Readings: Katherine Johnson C.S. Lewis, The Screwtape Letters Lewis Carroll, "The Hunting ofthe Snark" And more... Leclio(d)E,'lel'en brings a cabaret of great music and great writing, read aloud, for the Notre Dame community. Come to Recker's and hear it with your own ears! We are always looking for more readers and musicians. If interested, contact Jonathan Couser atjcouser@nd.edu or call631-3923. Sponsored by First Year of Studies  
*-J.,.,@13 ~ UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS Invites Nominations for the Sheedy A ward Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean ofthe College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: Stuart Greene Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall Deadline Monday, April 9, 2007  




ORLD & NATION 
Monday, April 2, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Earthquake hits Solomon Islands 
HONIARA, Solomon Islands -A powerful undersea earthquake Monday in the South Pacific sent a tsunami several yards high crashing into the Solomon Islands, devastating at least one village, officials and residents said. 
Police and residents said a wave about 10 feet high struck the western town of Gizo, inundating buildings and causing widespread destruction. A man who answered the tele­phone at the Gizo police station said there were initial reports that eight people, six of them children, had been killed by the tsunami but they were still unconfirmed. The phone cut out abruptly before the man gave his name. 
Gizo resident Judith Kennedy said water "right up to your head" swept through the town. 
"All the houses near the sea were flattened," she told The Associated Press by telephone. "The downtown area is a very big mess from the tsunami and the earthquake," she added. "A lot of houses have collapsed. The whole town is still shaking" from aftershocks. 
Iran airs video of captured Britons 
TEHRAN, Iran -Iranian state television aired new video Sunday showing two of the 15 captured British sailors pointing to a spot on a map of the Persian Gulf where they were seized and acknowledging it was in Iranian territorial waters. 
Britain's Foreign Office denounced the video, saying it was "completely unaccept­able for these pictures to be shown on TV." 
Adding to tensions between the two coun­tries, about 200 angry Iranian youths chanti­ng "Death to Britain" and "Death to America" threw rocks and firecrackers at the British Embassy and tried to rush the com­pound but were held back by police. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
White House nmesGomales testimony 
WASHINGTON -The White House scram­bled Sunday to move up Attorney General Alberto Gonzales' planned testimony to Congress about his involvement in firing eight federal prosecutors, only to get a cold shoulder from majority Democrats. 
The effort reflected the frustration by Republican senators and the White House over how long it is taking the embattled attorney general to explain himself under oath. Congress has just begun a vacation ­one week for the Senate, two for the House. 
In a sign of Gonzales' diminished standing on Capitol Hill, the Senate GOP leader offered lukewarm support for the nation's top law enforcer, whose inconsistent expla­nations about the dismissals have become a distraction for the Bush administration. 
Hillary breaks fundraising records 
WASHINGTON -Shattering previous records, Democrat Hillary Rodham Clinton col­lected $26 million for her presidential cam­paign during the first three months of the year and transferred an additional $10 million from her Senate fundraising account, aides said Sunday. 
The New York senator's total included $4.2 million raised through the Internet. The cam­paign did not specify how much of the $36 mil­lion was available only for the primary election and how much could be used just in the gener­al election, ifshe were the party's nominee. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Cemeteries offer pet burial services 
MERRILLVILLE, Ind.-A growing number of funeral homes and cemeteries are offering burial and cremation services for animals to help bereaved pet owners cope with their loss. 
Across the nation, there's a growing trend among pet owners who want to celebrate their departed animals with the many servic­es now offered by local funeral homes and cemeteries. 
Calumet Park Cemetery in Merrillville will open a section this spring where people and their pets can be buried in the same plots, said cemetery marketing director Rob Vogel. 



VATICAN CITY 

John Paul IT moves closer to sainthood 
Church officials announce investigation into late Pope's life is finished 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY Catholic Church officials reached a key milestone in the drive to make Pope John Paul II a saint Monday, clos­ing an investigation into his life and handing over a dossier detailing the pur­ported miraculous cure of a nun who prayed to him. 
The events come two years to the day after John Paul died -a remarkably fast pace that underscores the church's keen interest in beatifying John Paul and responding to the calls of "Santo Subito" or "Sainthood Immediately!" that erupted after his death. 
Pope Benedict XVI put John Paul on the fast track for possible sainthood just weeks after his April 2, 2005, death, when he waived the customary five­year waiting period and allowed the investigation into his predecessor's virtues to begin immediate­ly. 
Such a waiver had only been granted once before, to Mother Teresa. 

Benedict will not attend Monday's ceremony at the St. John Lateran basilica to close the investigation into John Paul's life, a key step in the process of beatification and canonization. He was, although Oder said the vast Poland, to proceed to canon­attributed to the candidate's however, scheduled to cele­majority of the criticism was ization immediately, saying intercession be confirmed brate a Mass later in the day not against John Paul as a the church's procedures before beatification. A sec­at St. Peter's Basilica to person but against some must be respected. ond miracle is necessary for mark the second anniver­aspect of his teachings or John Paul's cause has canonization. sary of John Paul's death. church doctrine. "To tell the been bolstered by the testi­Simon-Pierre is expected 
Monsignor Slawomir Oder, truth, this doesn't weigh mony of a French nun, to attend Monday's events in the Polish prelate who is heavily on the merit of the Sister Marie-Simon-Pierre, Rome and to be on hand as spearheading the beatifica­process itself," he said. who says she was cured of her superiors deliver to the tion cause, acknowledged Such complicated investi­Parkinson's disease after Vatican the documentation recently that his probe was gations often take decades she and her fellow sisters supporting her testimony completed unusually quickly or centuries, not a matter of prayed to the late pope. about the purported mira­-particularly considering months. The nun, 46, emerged cle. the vast amount of material "But speed doesn't mean a from secrecy last week, After receiving the docu­that had to be collected. lack of seriousness," Oder telling a news conference in mentation; the Vatican's 
About 130 people were said. "Aside from the dis­France that she felt reborn Congregation for the Causes interviewed, historians gath­pensation of the delay to the when she woke up two of Saints will appoint med­ered books about John Paul process, we have not sought months after John Paul ical experts to determine if from libraries around the any other waiver." died, cured of the disease there are medical explana­globe, and theologians stud­Indeed, he dismissed that the pope himself had tions for the cure. ied his private writings to renewed calls by John Paul's lived with. Theologians will then deter­determine if he ever wrote longtime private secretary, The Vatican's complicated mine if the cure came as a anything heretical. Cardinal Stanislaw Dziwisz, saint-making procedures result of prayer to John 
Critics also had a voice, archbishop of Krakow, require that a miracle Paul. 


IRAQ 

McCain criticizes war media coverage 
lishment of security posts throughout tors normally make the trip from the
Associated Press 

the city and Sunni tribal efforts against airport to the city center by helicopter. 
BAGHDAD -After a heavily guarded al-Qaida in the western Anbar province. The congressmen, who wore body trip to a Baghdad market, Sen. John "These and other indicators are rea­armor during their hourlong shopping McCain insisted Sunday that a U.S.-Iraqi son for cautious, very cautious optimism excursion, said they were impressed security crackdown in the capital was about the effects of the new strategy," with the resilience and warmth of the working and said Americans lacked a said McCain, who was leading a Iraqi people, some of whom would not "full picture" of the progress. Six sol­Republican congressional delegation to take money for their souvenirs. They diers were killed in roadside bombings Iraq that included Sen. Lindsey were accompanied by the top U.S. com­southwest of Baghdad. Graham. mander in Iraq, Gen. David Petraeus. 
McCain, a Republican presidential Members of the delegation spoke at a While the capital has seen a recent hopeful who was a prisoner of war in Green Zone news conference after they dip in violence as extra U.S. and Iraqi Vietnam, acknowledged a difficult task rode from Baghdad's airport in armored troops have flooded the streets, an Iraqi ahead in Iraq, but criticized the media vehicles and under heavy guard to visit military spokesman said that militants for not giving Americans enough infor­the city's largest market. They said the fleeing the crackdown have made areas mation about the recent drop in execu­trips were proof that security was outside the capital "breeding grounds tion-style sectarian killings, the estab-improving in the capital. Prominent visi-for violence." 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, April 2, 2007 
out of the 35 things on their valuable asset, they said. items on their agenda that That's life," she said. platform." "I think the biggest benefit of directly impact students will But even with any unforesee­
Brown 

Braun offered the example of having experience is that counter claims about a lack of able obstacles, Brown and the Student Union endowment you've already established interest. Braun said they have certain
continued from page 1 

initiated by Shappell and relationships with administra­"In the fall, when some of objectives they believe they Notre Dame Stadium. Andrichik last week and pre­tors on campus," Brown said. our big student life initiatives can accomplish over the next 
"(We are] working on things dicted that in 10 years or so­Braun thinks that their expe­get passed, I think students year. that will benefit students in the when students are able to see rience will make them more will see the benefit [of student "I hope that we can really fall," she said. famous bands on campus -efficient. government] more," she said. spark some change that will 
students will think that whoev­"[With! experience alone, Braun said she is "not wor­directly affect the students in a An administration with expe­er set up the endowment had you're more practiced," she ried about not receiving 50 way that they know that stu­rience foresight. said. " ... You waste less time percent plus one [of the vote]" dent government does things," 
Brown and Braun came into "We can really thank Lizzi trying to figure out how to do and cited the fact that applica­Brown said. She believes that office with experience in for­and Bill for that," she said. things because you've been tions for Student Senate com­students sometimes do not mer student body president After witnessing the behind­there before." mittees doubled this year as realize student government is Lizzi Shappell and the-scenes And the fact that they have evidence that interest in stu­behind certain changes, like vice president Bill work of stu­all of their committee chairs dent government is not declin­last year's updates to Grab and Andrichik's adminis­dent gov­and positions filled for the next ing. Go. tration. "We have to step up ernment, year, Brown said, has con­For Brown, on the other "It would be great for stu­
Brown was their on our game and Brown said tributed to their confidence as hand, her ticket's failure to dents to be able to have a little chief executive assis­she is confi­they start their term. obtain the majority pushes her faith that things can be done,"
prove that the right 

tant, while Braun dent that "We have great chairs," to work harder. she said.
decision was made

was the Breen-she and Brown said. "I think we have "Since it was such a close Braun hopes that their Phillips senator. in the end." Braun can the right people behind us." election, that's motivating to administration will undertake Brown said she handle me," she said. "We have to issues that may seem complex admired the work what lies 'We have to step up on our step up on our game and prove or take time to resolve.
Liz Brown

Shappell and ahead. game' that the right decision was "I would rather approach an 

student body president

Andrichik accom­"I don't Since Brown and Braun were made in the end." issue that hasn't been plished during their really have elected by a Senate vote due to approached before," she said. term. a huge the failure of any ticket to 'Confronting each issue with " ... I hope that we're remem­
"Since I was part fear," she receive a 50 percent plus one no holds' bered as confronting each [of their administration], I said. "I think l'm pretty confi­majority in the run-o!T student While Braun expeets chal­issue with no holds. You know, have a lot of respect for both dent ... I think we have the election, concerns have arisen lenges, she said she has "no 100 percent." Lizzi and Bill," she said. "I experience and the vision to that students lack interest in fears" about her and Brown's think it's absolutely remark­get things done." student government. But ability to serve in oflice. Contact Emma Driscoll at able that they accomplished 32 Their experience will be a Braun said she thought the "There will be tough times. edriscol@nd.edu 
OIT 
continued from page 1 
classification of sensitive infor­mation. 
He said sensitive information in the Notre Dame network would include academic records, health services files, Social Security numbers, finan­cial aid documents and University financial and invest­ment information. 
One of the tools OIT placed on its Web site to help the cam­pus community pinpoint sensi­tive information is the Sensitive Number Finder software, which locates potential Social Security and credit card num­bers on the computer's hard drive, external hard drives, USB "thumb" drives and AFS or NetFile space, Wishon said. 
OIT will also supervise work with different University departments in the upcoming months to make sure the office computers have firewalls, antivirus software and other preventive tools running, according to the OIT Web site. 
To correct the flaws in the Notre Dame network, Wishon said OIT was taking Ernst & Young's advice and considering security-differentiated zones within the public network, developing more effective tire­walls against unauthorized users and making revisions and upgrades to the different servers on campus. 
OIT Information Security Director Gary Dobbins said there were more than 40 dif­ferent projects underway designed to reduce the risks of unauthorized access to University information. 
"We are working to improve security for all campus sys­tems, both desktops as well as servers," Dobbins said. "Locating and identifying them all, particularly those which might contain sensitive infor­mation, is itself no small chal­lenge." 
He said the Ernst & Young audit determined several servers on campus were oper­ating in a vulnerable condition. 
Dobbins said OIT representa­tives contacted the different offices and departments that were red-flagged to "further steps they can take to reduce those vulnerabilities." 
On Jan. 13, 2006, the University detected a breach in a Development Office server, which may have exposed the personal and financial informa­tion of several donors. 

The University sent the donors whose information may have been leaked a letter on Jan. 20, 2006, detailing the crime and suggesting they keep an eye on their accounts, due to the risk of identify theft. 
The University sent a similar letter on Jan. 2, 2007 to the employees who may have been affected by the laptop theft, WNDU reported. 
These recommendations, Wishon said, also extend to all members of the Notre Dame community. 
Information security, he said, pertained to firewalls and the individual's discipline alike. 
"[Information security! is about how we access, process, transmit and store sensitive information in all forms," Wishon said on OI'f's Web site. "It certainly covers laptop and desktop computers, but also includes how we deal with paper records or whether we're discrete in telephone conversations that involve sen­sitive data." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 




Maine's Holocaust center relocates 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA. Maine -With a succession of four curved roof lines arching toward the south­ern sky before ending abruptly with walls of glass, the archi­tecture is striking. But inside the new home of Maine's Holocaust and Human Rights Center, visitors may find what they see and hear even more moving. 
Images of survivors of the Nazi horrors and their libera­tors will appear on four screens to tell stories of what they experienced during those dark days. As a backdrop to their words, ambient sounds from the death camps will fill the air. 
Visitors will see a letter from a GI to his sweetheart describ­ing what he saw as he became one of the first Americans to liberate the death camps. Outside, a small plot of ground will hold earth from Auschwitz­Birkenau, following a ceremo­ny on April 15, international Holocaust Remembrance Day. 
For years, mementoes, tapes and other material pertaining to Mainers who survived or helped to liberate the concen­tration camps of the World War II era were scattered in differ­ent locations. Tapes were housed in the state library. 
Other items wound up in Sharon Nichols' home. 
A Catholic who developed a deep interest in the Holocaust during a visit to Germany in the 1960s, Nichols found her­self consumed by questions about how people could inflict such cruelty on fellow humans, and how anything like it can be prevented in the future. 
Last year -21 years after the Holocaust and Human 

Rights Center was founded ­ground was broken for its per­manent home. 
The Michael Klahr Center is named in honor of a child Holocaust survivor who eventu­ally settled in Maine. 
Klahr was born in Paris in 1937. llis mother was deported and probably killed, and his father was shot by the Nazis. In 1946, Klahr arrived on an orphan ship in the United States. lie became wealthy in New York after investing in real estate. lie later moved to Maine, where h1~ married Phyllis Jalbert. The two ran sporting camps until Klahr died in 1998. 
Nichols said the timing is right for the $2.8 million, 6,000-square-foot Klahr center to open because survivors and liberators who serve as the backbone of public outreach efforts are now old and dying. 
• Offer valid f!Nery Monday 11 a.m. to close. 


.r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS

Monday, April 2, 2007 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


Dow 


12,354.35 +5.60

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,803 139 1,440 2,892,524,933 


NII<I<£{('T~!ili!iii~Iti!lll~llili ,' 111!11!;11!1111~·1! 
FTSf IOO(Lonclon) 6,308.00 -16.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ II 0 TR (QQQQ}  -0.09  -0.04  43.53  
S&P RECEIPTS (SPY)  +0.02  +0.03  142.00  
CMGIINC (CMGI)  -6.19  -0.14  2.12  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +0.84  +0.05  6.0 I  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  +0.35  +0.0 16  4.648  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.20  -0.0 I 0  4.895  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.39  -0.019  4.848  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.38  +0.0 17  4.537  
CommOdities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.16  65.87  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  + 1.40  669.00  
PORK BELLIE5 (cents/lb.)  -0.63  I00.40  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  117.7300  
EURO  0.7486  
POUND  0.5081  
CANADIAN$  1.1526  

IN BRIEF 

Fund pushes for Ully shareholder vote 
INDIANAPOLIS-A major U.S. pension fund wants fellow Eli Lilly and Co. shareholders to have more of a voice in amending the bylaws governing the drug maker. 
The California Public Employees' Retirement System has proposed allowing shareholders to change bylaws by majority vote. Currently, only board members can change bylaws, which essentially provide a road map for how the com­pany is run. 
It owns roughly 4.8 million Lilly shares, which is less than 1 percent of the Indianapolis-based company's stock. 
The retirement system, known as CalPERS, pitched its proposal in Lilly's annual proxy state­ment and in a letter it sent to 1,600 major share­holders. It notes that share owners can amend bylaws at most S&P 500 companies. 
Lilly opposes the proposal because company officials believe it would lead to too much influ­ence from large shareholders. It notes that its board has a duty to look out for the interests of all shareholders. 
Indianapolis Power suit dismissed 
INDIANAPOLIS -A federal judge on Wednesday dismissed a lawsuit by some 2,000 former Indianapolis Power & Light Co. employees who claimed utility officials failed to protect their retirement savings from a multimillion-dollar stock collapse that followed a merger. 
The class action lawsuit alleged that the value of employees' 401(k) and retirement plans plum­meted when Virginia-based AES Corp. acquired the utility in a stock swap in 2001. It also alleged company officers dumped IPALCO shares about the time employees were prohibited from selling company stocks owned through their benefit plans. 
But Judge David F. Hamilton found no evidence of illicit profits or wrongdoing and said executives had complied with federal securities law. 
"There is no evidence at all that the individual defendants had any negative inside information about AES or the prospects of its stock," Hamilton wrote in a 113-page ruling. "Defendants did not give investment advice themselves." 

SOUTH KOREA 


Talks seek largest ever tariffs cut 
White House says trade negotiations are 'not going well' after ten months 
Associated Press  
SEOUL -South Korea  
and the United States strug­ 
gled to wrap up an elusive  
free trade agreement even  
as a deadline for concluding  
negotiations came and went.  
Negotiators have met for  
eight straight days at a Seoul  
hotel. If they succeed, the  
accord to slash tariffs and  
other trade barriers would  
be the biggest for the U.S.  
since the North American  
Free Trade Agreement in  
1993, and the biggest ever  
for South Korea.  
"We're down to decision  
time as opposed to negotia­ 
tion time," said Steve  
Norton, spokesman for the  
Office of the U.S. Trade  
Representative, suggesting  
that the two sides were  
reviewing each other's final  
offer more than one hour  
after the deadline Monday in  
Seoul.  
After an all-night session  
Friday, the two sides said  
they needed to extend talks  
beyond the original midnight  
deadline, and agreed to fin­ 
ish the talks by 1 a.m.  
Monday in Seoul, correspon­ 
ding to a noon Sunday dead­ 
line in Washington.  
The negotiations were  
marred by ugly protests out­ 
side the luxury hilltop hotel AP  
where delegates met. A man South Korean Trade Minister Kim Hyun-chong participates in free-trade agreement talks  
shouted "Stop the Korea­with the U.S. Sunday in Seoul. A man set himself on fire protesting the talks.  
U.S. FTA" after setting him­ 
self on fire. He was treated  falling to the ground blood­ Bhatia, as well as the chief  not intend to sign a deal  
for third-degree burns,  ied. After dark, protesters  negotiators for the two sides,  under his expiring Trade  
police said.  gathered in front of Seoul  have been meeting since last  Promotion Authority.  
Nearby, about 150 protest­ City Hall for a candlelight  Monday to bridge con­ That "fast track" power to  
ers, including farmers, stu­ protest, holding placards  tentious trade issues such as  submit trade agreements to  
dents and activists, some  and chanting.  autos and agriculture.  Congress for straight yes-or­ 
wearing red or white head­ Police estimated the crowd  The White House on  no votes expires on July 1,  
bands, denounced the talks,  at about 1,000 people. The  Friday said that after 10  but legally the agreement  
chanting "Down with the  protesters then marched  months of haggling, the talks  must be concluded 90 days  
Roh Moo-hyun government,"  through central Seoul  were "not going well."  in advance.  
referring to South Korea's  toward the presidential Blue  A USTR spokesman in  Norton said Sunday there  
president.  House, but they were  Washington said Saturday  would be no further exten­ 
A brief clash between  checked by riot police.  that the U.S. must wrap up  sion of talks.  
some of the protesters and  South Korean Trade  the deal by Sunday U.S.  Any final deal would be  
riot police carrying shields  Minister Kim Hyun-chong  time. That is the deadline to  subject to approval by both  
and truncheons erupted  and Deputy U.S. Trade  notify Congress that  Congress and South Korea's  
later, with one policeman  Representative Karan  President Bush does or does  National Assembly.  

Ethanol boom spurs corn planting 
Associated Press we're doing quite a bit of field work. Castro wrote in an editorial for the 
There just isn't a wheel turning out Communist Party daily newspaper that 
DES MOINES, Iowa -An ethanol­here. Illinois is in the same boat." President Bush's ethanol plan could fueled boom in prices will prompt The move to plant corn is in large deplete corn and other food stocks in American farmers to plant the most part due to a rush to produce corn­developing nations, putting the lives of 3 corn since the year the Allies invaded based ethanol, which is blended with billion people at risk worldwide. Normandy, but surging demand could gasoline. There are now 114 ethanol "You're in the middle of an emer­mean consumers still may pay more for refineries nationwide and another 80 gence of a food versus fuel debate," said everything from chicken to cough syrup. under construction. . Lincoln Ellis, director of asset manage­
Farmers are expected to plant 90.5 The corn rush was sparked by ment for the Linn Group, a Chicago­
million acres of corn, according to the President Bush's initiative to support for based privately held fmancial trading 
U.S. Department of Agriculture's annual flexible-fuel vehicles, which are capable business focusing on commodities and prospective plantings report released of using gasoline and ethanol blends, futures. "This is the pregame show. We Friday. That would be a 15 percent and his administration's plan to cut gas haven't even hit the first quarter." increase over 2006 and the most corn consumption by 20 percent in 10 years. Corn is a key ingredient in many planted since 1944. Corn prices were already rising when foods, from corn syrup found in candies 
Mother Nature will play a large part Bush announced the initiative in and cough syrup to feed used in meat in the actual acreage planted. Muddy Washington on Jan. 23 and there has production. fields are already slowing plantings in been growing concern that the corn Chicken producers welcomed the some states. rush could hurt the poor in less-devel­planting report, hoping that an 
"We're awfully wet out here," said oped nations such as Mexico, where the increased corn supply would reduce John Scott, a grain farmer in west cen­crop is a staple used in tortillas. feed costs that have led to a 40 percent tral Iowa. "Normally by this time of year On Thursday, Cuban leader Fidel rise in chicken prices. 
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, April 2, 2007 

C-M 
Campus Ministry 

A§ILICA o•~ THE SACRED HEART 



HOLY EEK 
]_J>ALI\'_i SlJNDAY ((J)F T:liE J[j(JfFlJI_)1§ Jl::I>A_,.~§I(})N AJrJ)RJfL Jl 
--==-=-· ····-·-·-···-····--·-···-··-·················-·····--·-·····-····························-··-·····-·············-----··-···--····-· ~--·······--·········--····--··--··········· 
5:00pm (Saturday)  Vigil Mass  
9:45 an1  Solen1n Mass  
12:00 noon  Sunday Mass  

Special Mass tin1es for Paln1 Sunday only 
T"lJE§DAY"'_A:feJP(l{~~l 
7:00pm Catnpus-wide Stations ofthe Cross (Procession departs frotn the Grotto) 
9:15 pm Opportunity for individual confession follows Stations in the Basilica 
HOLYT:I·Il.TR§DAY APRJIL 5 
······--··-·--·······-··········-·········-························································'-······································································· 
9:00 am Morning Prayer 5:00pm Evening Mass ofthe Lord's Supper *6:30 pm Adoration in the Lady Chapel 
11:00 pm Tenebrae *Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart will ren1ain open frotn 6:30 pin until 12:30 am 
GQQJ[~ Jt"Jc~·li:.J:ll~Y,.~Je!t.~Ill:~ ~ 
9:00am Morning Prayer 
12:00 noon-3:00pm Silent Hours ofPrayer 3:00pm Celebration ofthe Lord's Passion 7:15pm Stations ofthe Cross 
HOI~Y §ATlTRJO..t~Y .A1l»RJII:.. '4 
........................................................................................................................................... ~ .............. ·············································· 
9:00 
am Morning Prayer 

9:00 
pm The Paschal Vigil 


EASTER §"I.JNDAY APRIL§
··--·-·······-·····················································································································JL.................................................................... 
8:00am Easter Sunday Mass 
10:00 am Solemn Mass 
12:00 noon Easter Sunday Mass 
7:15pm Solemn Easter Vespers Special Mass times for Easter Sunday only 
CONJ:<"""Jt-<.::SSJION§ lJ)lTltliN{,~ JfiOJL~' "Wl~lfo-=:1£~ 
............................... ............................................................................... . ······ ..... . 
Monday 11:00 atn, 4:45pm, 7:00 ptn Tuesday 11:00 am, 4:45 ptn, 7:00pm, 9:15pm Wednesday 11 :00 atn, 4:45 pm, 7:00 pm Holy Thursday 11:00 an1 to 12:00 noon, 7:00pm to 8:00pm Good Friday 11:00 atn to 2:00 pin, 7:00pm to 8:00 ptn Holy Saturday 12:00 noon to 1:00 ptn, 3:00pm to 5:00 ptn 
Monday, April 2, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
as well as restaurants for stu­dents on a budget to go out
Site 
with their friends, Reyes said. continued from page 1 
"Every week a restaurant 
will be featured which will only made it through the first give away free items," Reyes round, the competition was said. ultimately successful, since Reyes said many restau­they were able to find a rants and businesses have group of investors through been receptive to the compa­the competition ny's business that are now plan because 
sponsoring NDtogo. The services  "Every week a restaurant will be  they want more student business.  
offered  through  featured which will  "Business  
the Web site will only be available to Notre Dame,  give away free items.,,  owners are b r i n g extremely  
Saint Mary's and  generous and  
Holy Cross stu­dents since stu­dents will need a school e-mail  Rudy Reyes Jr. co-founder NDtogo.com  are giving away whole pizzas, for example,"  
address to  regis- Reyes said.  
ter.  Although  

"The service will always be the database part of the Web free to students ... whether site will not be up and run­they are logging in, using the ning until late April, students Web site or getting freebies," can start registering now on Reyes said. the site. Students will be eli­
Reyes said the Web site will gible for free prizes and be organized according to coupons once they register, various categories, such as Reyes said. dining on a budget, type of "Every week a restaurant restaurant and appropriate will be featured which will dress. give away free items," Reyes 
NDtogo.com will feature said. lists of restaurants in the The listings and database South Bend area where stu­will be available Blue and dents can take their parents Gold weekend, Reyes said, over Junior Parents Weekend and the last two weeks of 
school the site will be giving Reyes said. "There are a lot away free items daily. of places to go that are new 
NDtogo has begun advertis­and fun in South Bend that ing to students through aren't going to break the Facebook.com flyers. The bank." company also had a Facebook The Web site's services will event to draw student inter­be focused on South Bend, est, but the event could not Mishawaka, Granger and be located Sunday. Niles, but the founders hope 
Reyes declined to discuss to eventually expand the site how the business will be to include other areas such lucrative, but said that help­as Elkhart, Reyes said. 
ing college stu- Reyes  
dents  in  the  said  he  
South Bend  area  "What will be  doesn't  
is his main objec­tive. "What will be  profitable about it is that we will be helping  think other Web sites l i k e  
profitable about  students find cool and  Yelp.com,  
it is that we will be helping stu­dents find cool  interesting restaurants in the South Bend  campus­food.com and Dine  
and  interesting  community.,,  In Delivery  
restaurants  in  Service  
the South Bend community," he said.  Rudy Reyes Jr. co-founder  will be competi­tion for his  
Reyes  - who  NDtogo.com  business  
received a gradu­ because  
ate  degree from  these serv­ 

the University in 2003 -said ices are not primarily for stu­he realized during his time at dents. Notre Dame that a lot of stu­"We don't really feel like dents are not aware of all the they are too much a competi­restaurants in South Bend tion.... Yelp is just getting and Mishawaka. started and it's still not giving 
"Every time we wanted to anything away [for free]," go out, we'd go to the same Reyes said. "We find with all place over and over. At the these other Web sites that end of our time ... we started none of them are really finding all these places geared toward students." around the community," Joshua Railton, director of 

operations at Dine In Delivery Service, which delivers food from multiple local vendors, said the new company will not be serious competition for Dine In in the future. 
"There have been services like that in the past. Campusfood.com tried to work with us but it didn't work because we work with over 50 different restaurants in the area and we provide good service and we do a lot of online orders for stu­dents," Railton said. 
NDtogo hopes to get stu­dents involved in its business venture as well. 
"The eventual goal is to involve a team of student voices to help us get the word out -anybody can be involved," Reyes said. 
Reyes said they have sent e­mails out to various clubs on campus, including the entre­preneurial club and the mar­keting club. 
"We are still waiting to get the full team in place," he said. 
Reyes said NDtogo.com will also be sponsoring a Bookstore Basketball team for the 2007 Bookstore Basketball season. 
NDtogo is not affiliated with the University. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 

"Join feUo,v students and facult:y for dinner and an evening offaith-based discussion 
~·\onday, April23 at 6:00pm Notre Dan1e Stadium Press Box 
Featuring guest speaker Dr. Timothy George 
Dean o.ltbe &<ttfOn Di~-·inity School at Sartlj;uY.J 
If interested, e-mail the Center for Ethics and Culture at ethics2@nd.edu. Please give us your nan1e, local address, class and major. Spaces are limited to eighty students. Priorit.Y· \\rill be given to those \\'ho have never attended~ We welcon1e aU students regardless offaith ~ 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, April 2, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Everything ventured, nothing gained 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notte Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BuSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITORS; Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Katie Kohler PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 

CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR; Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DesK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infurmarion. 
Quertiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

!be Observer {USPS: 599 Z--4000) is publishe-d Monday throu!;h Friday ~pt durin.g e:ll:am and va:c:nion periods. A subscription ro The-Obsfm:r 1s $100 for one academic year; $55 f~;~r ono= semester. 
The Observer ls publish~ at:-POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall St:nd address correcrions w: Notre Dam<. IN 46556.()779 Th< Obsem:r I'triodica! postage paid ar Notre-Dame: P.O. Bo:x-779 and addhional mailing offices. {)24 Sourh Dinillg Hall 
None Dame. IN 46-556-0779 

The Obsc:m::r is .a member ofthe Assodatcd Press. All tep.mduetion rights ate 
r~rva:L 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Kaitlynn Riely Jay Fitzpatrick John-Paul Witt Greg Arbogast 
Viewpoint Danielle Keller Lianna Scene Brauweiler Marty Schroeder Graphics Madeline Nies 
Many critics have noted that the pres­ent Iraq War is the first real, long-term war in which the vast majority has not sacrificed anything significant. They say that the .5 percent of the American pop­ulation in the armed services is bearing the entire burden of the war in Iraq. For the most part, I'm in agreement with their assessment. I don't have to present any ration coupons when purchasing groceries at the store. Gas prices are still incredibly low by international stan­dards, thanks to gratu­itous subsidies for oil companies by our gov­ernment. I don't face a draft like my father; I'm not staring at a TV screen clutching a number that will determine whether I go off to fight or remain at home. Personally, each of us is quite well off in this conflict, mental anguish aside. 
However, we've sacrificed much as a country. 
There are 3,248 U.S. military fatalities that have been confirmed by the Department of Defense and countless casualties. Each one of these deaths has shaken the lives of family and friends and each casualty has altered a life for­ever. We're quickly learning that a grow­ing number of soldiers are returning with post-traumatic stress disorder which has, in the history of warfare, gone severely undiagnosed, underreport­ed, and insufficiently treated. Thousands more lives have been lost by non-military personnel, civilians working in Iraq in a variety of ways, whether it be driving a truck or working for a private security firm. These fatalities and casualties are mounting on a daily basis, climbing at staggering rates. 
We've lost the hope of Iraqis. While the flower-throwers that Donald Rumsfeld anticipated mostly stayed home during the liberation of their country, there was still a great sense of victory and hope for the future of Iraq back in 2003. Saddam Hussein was a brutal dictator and had been deposed in a matter of weeks. The words "sectarian violence" had yet to be uttered on the news and pictures of Iraqi children smiling at soldiers dominated the airwaves, not the lED explosions and bombed-out marketplaces full of grieving Iraqis we see today. We've lost the hope of Iraqis and therefore we've lost Iraq. According to the latest ABC News poll, 51 percent of Iraqis believe that it is "acceptable" to attack U.SJcoalition forces. 


We've lost the respect of the world. The administration has managed to take all the sympathy and support that was thrown at us from around the world on September 11 and mangle these alliances into a relationship of bitter dis­cord. These other countries unanimously agree that terrorism must be stopped but fundamentally disagree with our approach towards bringing peace and stability to the Middle East. They see the war in Iraq as the ill-advised debacle that it is and resent the losses that they, too, have accrued. 
We've sacrificed the moral high­ground that we once held as a nation. We were once the ultimate symbol of freedom, liberty and justice. Our country was what the world wanted to be. Our government was something that we could be proud of, an achievement of civ­ilization that stressed accountability, equality and rule by the people, for the people and of the people. Oh, how we mighty have fallen. We have stooped so low as to use torture as a primary tool in our attempts to garner intelligence from detainees. We export prisoners to 'black sites' run by the CIA which operate with­out Congressional oversight and send other detainees to allied countries where oversight does not exist and human rights are scoffed at. 
We've surrendered our principles to the Bush administration, allowing the war on terror to proceed without the hindrances of checks and balances, over­sight and transparency, features of our democracy which were earned through the sacrifices of previous generations. Habeus corpu~, one of the greatest inventions of civilization and one of the most fundamental of American rights, has been suspended for many detainees. We've now developed the hubris as a nation to imprison people indefinitely, without charge. 
Essentially, we're still living the every­day American way of life. In that respect, al Qaeda has failed. However, America, the nation, is not sustaining the American values of life. We've never prided ourselves as a nation because of our constant supply of butter during wartime, our ability to artificially deflate gas prices, or our ability to banish the harsh realities of war to the 24-hour news cycle, and we shouldn't start now. America is not tyranny and torture, hubris and hypocrisy, ignorance and ide­ology. America is the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, the Emancipation Proclamation, the victory at D-Day, the "I Have A Dream" speech, the Bible, the Torah and the Koran. 
There's a well-known picture on my wall of "the unknown rebel," a solitary man blocking a column of Chinese tanks advancing towards the protests in Tiananmen Square. Against all odds, he stands in the face of glaring injustice and oppression. While the answer has histor­ically been clear, we, as citizens of America, have to ask ourselves: are we the man, or are we the tank? 
Wzll McAuliffe is a senior Political Science major with a serious love for the Colbert Report and Fox News. All letters ofsupport, disdain or funny Backer experiences should be forwarded to his personal assistant at mcauliffe.4@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



OBSERVER POLL 
Do you feel the Notre Dame Law School is well respected? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

"'''· '·"··'"·'" ......,., ..,.,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,""'''''''''''''''''''''·'''''''''··''··''"'''''''''''''''''""''''"'''''"'''"''"""·''"'''·'"·"''''" 


1SUb~t a:~etter 1 
Jto th~ Editor at ,
Iwww.ndsmcobserver.com I 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Our job is to love others without stopping to inquire whether or not they are worthy. That is not our business and, in fact, it is nobody's business. What we are asked to do is to love, and this love itself will ren­der both ourselves and our neighbors wor­thy ifanything can." 
Thomas Merton author 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Monday, April 2, 2007 
page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame ROTC vital to the nation 
Faith an important part ofofficer corps 
I would like to clear up many misconceptions that some students, faculty and concerned Catholics may hold regarding the Notre Dame ROTC program and the Catholic mission of Notre Dame. I applaud the many righteous causes for which the Catholic Worker movement has stood over the past several decades. However, I do not believe they have a valid reason to protest ROTC at Notre Dame. 
While being an active member of the Air Force ROTC unit, I became very confused about the ethics of war during my junior year at Notre Dame. I spoke with Father Warner, the ROTC chap­lain, and read up on St. Augustine's "Just War Theory." I came to the conclusion that war is an unfortunate yet necessary evil, because ifwe do not act, more innocent lives may be lost. We would be committing sins of omission if we were to sit idle and allow aggressors to destroy nations. 
Now, I do not want to parallel this idea to our current war over­seas. That is opening up a whole new can of worms. However, it is inevitable that this nation will always have a military and therefore a need for military officers. I feel more comfortable that many of these ranks are being filled by ethically sound and theologically­educated Notre Dame graduates who understand the sacredness of life and that war is a last resort, and not always a solution to every problem. Our military is far from perfect, but without Notre Dame's Christian presence in the officer corps, it now becomes much less perfect. 
Captain Greg Bergman alumnus Vandalia, Ohio March 30 

No dehumanizing in military 
curriculum 
This letter is in response to Bradley Jenkins' Letter to the Editor ("Protests aimed at solidari­ty," March 29) on protesting the presence of ROTC on the Notre Dame campus. I applaud Mr. Jenkins' activism and work to create peace in the world. Nobody wants that more than the military members that serve in harm's way far away from their friends and family. 
However, I do find objection with his assertion that the ROTC program "systematically trains many of our noblest young men and women to dehumanize the other and surrender their con­science." First of all, our students are taught Just War Theory along with the teachings of St. Augustine and Thomas Aquinas. They are also taught Divine Law and Natural Law and discuss how all of this fits with the teachings of the Catholic Church. They are vot taught to surren­der their conscience but are instead taught to search their conscience and ask if there are conflicts between their moral and religious beliefs and military operations that they might be engaged in. During that discussion they learn what courses of actions are available to them if they find themselves in an irreconcilable position. 
Secondly, ROTC students are also taught the Conduct of War and how honorable people treat enemy combatants. Much of the "moral armor" of the military profession is that we perform our mission not out of emotion or hatred but simply because it is our professional duty. In fact, dehumanizing your enemy would make us something less human and that is exactly what our moral code works to prevent. What is more noble than somebody that has taken an oath to defend our country and our way of life? And if we see a need to have that capability, then wouldn't our country be well served to have Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students as part of that that noble profession? I ask that you not confuse the issues around an unpopular war and those specific to being in the military. 
Coincidentally, in the same issue of The Observer there was a front page article about a speaker calling students to action to stop the genocide in Darfur. While I think that there are many things that people could do to affect the situation indirectly, eventually somebody is going to have to stop the killing. The harsh real­ity is that it probably means somebody taking direct action to stop the bad guys. The other part of that reality is that it may involve military action and taking a life to save a life. My ques­tion to you, Mr. Jenkins, is, "Who is going to do that?" 
Captain Mike Neller 
U.S. Navy professor of naval science March 30 



Moses commands sin to be put to death 
To my mind, no one has yet responded adequately to Xavier Lebec's charge ("First Down Moses underlies negative atti­tudes about other religions," March 27) that "First Down Moses" celebrates religious terrorism. Mark Flanagan ("Greater complexity to 'honorable' Moses," March 30) rightly observes that Nick Bloom's letter ("Moses was an honorable man," March 29) more confirms than answers it. But Flanagan's solution presents a Vatican II severed from the Tradition which gave it life. 
The Church realized that the Bible contains apparent atroci­ties long before Vatican II. Eighteen centuries ago, the Church Father Origen wrote that Scripture contains things that "can­not be believed to have happened appropriately and reason­ably." How should we read them? Echoing ancient Tradition, Vatican II reminds us to pay "attention ... to the content and unity of the whole of Scripture." For Christians, this "content and unity" is Jesus Christ. In the light of Christ, what does the command to "kill your brother, your friend and your neighbor" mean? Whom should I kill? Clearly not my enemies, for whom Christ commanded me to pray (Matt 5:44). Clearly not Christ's enemies, before whom Cluist commanded me to put away my sword (Matt 26:52). Who then must be put to death? Christians must hear in Moses' command St. Paul's exhortation to "put to death" (Col 3:5) all those sins that we have embraced as broth­er, friend, and neighbor. We must violently topple these golden calves which we have built and live for the one Lord. 
It is worth squeezing in one final and suggestive observation. It was the very jewelry taught by the Fathers to signify all that "is true and holy in [EJther] religions" that was distorted and misshapen into that golden idol. Part of the sin was therefore an abuse of that "ray of truth" which other religions "reflect." Perhaps my interpretation is unconvincing. But as Lebec insightf'ully pointed out, "whether or not the story is literally true does not matter as much as the fact that people accept its message as sacred." The Catholic Church considers the Bible sacred insofar as its message is Christ. A Catholic University honors religious images for the same reason. "First Down Moses" proclaims only that same message ever proclaimed by the Church: Jesus Christ alone is Lord. 
Spencer Daniel graduate srudenr Fisher Hall March31 


Drinking is a personal choice 
As the daughter of a Domer, I saw the envy in my father's eyes when he dropped me off at school for the first time. 'Td give anything to go back," he even admitted. While I've heard a fair share of his college stories, his longing is not to relive his craziest nights but rather to regain the freedom he had as a college student. 
We've all heard that college is the best four years of our lives. In my experience in the past two years, I've learned that this is because in college we have more free time than we'll ever have again and can choose to do whatever we want with it. Never again will I be able to take two-hour naps at whim. Although I shudder at I the preceding thought, my real nightmare is others telling me what to do with my free time here, and unfor­1 
tunately it's becoming a reality. In my opinion, ifsomeone wants to spend his or her free time drinking alco­hol, it's their choice. While I hope that they are safe about it, they shouldn't have to answer anyone's inquiry as to why. If someone doesn't want to spend their free time that way, then they don't have to. All I ask is that they don't condemn others who choose differently. 
In regards to our reputation, I think it's safe from tarnish. One is the number of alumni that have expressed their disappointment about alcohol consumption at Notre Dame. I'd say a couple hundred is the number of alumni that have offered me alcohol before football games. And I'm willing to bet over a thousand is the num­ber of alumni that'd be disappointed ifNotre Dame took away my choice to say, "Yes." 
Elizabeth Rogalski sophomore Lewis Hall March 29 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Monday, April 2, 2007 
DVD REVIEWS 
'Wild Bunch' bleeds brilliant cinema violence 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Senior Staff Writer 
Sam Peckinpah's 1969 classic "The Wild Bunch" is one of the defining west­erns, a blaze of glory that signaled the end of the genre in a traditional sense. 
As a reaction against the cold operat­ics of Sergio Leone's spaghetti westerns, it demonstrated that Hollywood still understood the genre better than anyone -although by subverting its own con­ventions, "The Wild Bunch" also brought closure to the genre that would not be revisited until Clint Eastwood's 1992 Best Picture winner "Unforgiven." 
"The Wild Bunch" is the story of Pike Bishop (William Holden, in one of his finest performances), who is the leader of the eponymous group, along with Dutch (Ernest Borgnine), Angel (Jaime Sanchez) and brothers Lyle and Tector Gorch (Warren Oates and Ben Johnson). At the start of the film, the Bunch botch­es a robbery and flees to Mexico. As Bishop starts to realize that their brand of outlaw justice is becoming antiquated, he comes to grips with his aging philoso­phies and decides to go out in one final confrontation. 

Peckinpah's film is a symbolic explo­ration of changing times. Set in 1910, it features aging men trying to understand a changing world. Ultimately, the Bunch realizes that they too have become out­dated and must face their destiny the only way they know how. "The Wild Bunch" has become revered for its por­trayals and characterization, and while the film is very violent (especially in its opening and closing confrontations), it has much more on its mind than being a typical Western. 
For a long time, "The Wild Bunch" was only available as a two-sided DVD that split up the movie. It has finally been released in a two-disc special edi­tion from Warner Bros. that preserves the original director's cut on a single disc (the second disc houses the special features). 
The picture quality, which preserves the original widescreen ratio, is very good -the image appears to have be.en cleaned up from the previous release, and the transfer is noticeably better, with a high contrast that highlights the cinematography. 
As with most Warner Bros. releases, the special features are informative and plentiful. There is commentary from Peckinpah biographers/documentarians Nick Redman, Paul Seydor, Garner Simmons and David Weddle. They relay a lot of information to the audience, though they often get sidetracked with unrelated anecdotes and stories about the director. 


There are also three documentaries: "Sam Peckinpah's West: Legacy of a Hollywood Renegade," which is a fea­ture-length biography. This is one of the best extras to come around in a while, and it sheds a lot of light on a director known for his outrageously violent films. 
Peckinpah also directed such classics as "Straw Dogs" and "Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid." The other features include a short called "The Wild Bunch: An Album in Montage" and a documentary called "A Simple Adventure Story: Sam Peckinpah, Mexico and the Wild Bunch." 
It was a long time coming, but "The Wild Bunch" has finally been released on a DVD worthy of its classic status. While it isn't as spectacular as the treatment given to other classic films, Warner's update of the 1969 classic adds a lot to Peckinpah's best film. For those who have never seen "The Wild Bunch," the two-disc special edition is an excellent way to become acquainted with one of America's best westerns. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
'Stick It' DVD stumbles, bumbles to perfect zero 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
Why famed actor Jeff Bridges ever decided to act in the girl-power, gymnas­tics-themed "Stick It" is a question that will never be answered. The delinquent­turned-athletic star plot has been around the street more times than can be counted -and this time its gymnastics instead of cheerleading, softball or the myriad of sports they've picked to make similar films. 
"Stick It" stars Missy Peregrym as the middle-finger-in-the-air, punk rocker Haley Graham who enrolls in a presti­gious gymnastics school after getting in 
from Tile Writer Of 

BBIIIIJ «Ill 


trouble with the law. The dramatic conceit twists when it's revealed she's a former gymnastics star who walked out of the world championships dooming the American team to infamy. The problem is those with a sense of musical history will recognize the producers pulled out every stereotypical punker t-shirt they could find to make Graham seem more "rebel­lious." Instead, it only comes across as completely ridiculous and Graham seems more cliche than character. 
Jeff Bridges, who has no business being in a film like this, plays Graham's gymnas­tics coach Burt Vickerman -a rough rebel coach who eschews rules in favor of punchy and new routines. Bridges immor­tal 'The Dude' from "The Big Lebowski" is nowhere to be found here. He performs Vickerman well, but it does not come close to the other roles he's played. They say all actors make had films -"Stick It" most certainly counts as one for Bridges. 
Other than the two aforementioned characters, "Stick It" is filled with cookie­cutter high school guys, gymnast girls who swoon around guys, dumb blondes, bitchy brunettes and a host of stereotypes who run around the movie like a virus destroying any credibility the film still maintained. 
Written by Jessica Bendinger, who wrote the tween-flick "Aquamarine" and the cheerleading epic "Bring It On," "Stick It" marked her directorial debut -and she does both equally ineptly. With too many !-hate-my-parents style quips from Graham and too much l'm-the-wise­coach-listen-to-me sagacities from Bridges, the dialogue sounds forced and the direction stilted. 
This isn't to say "Stick It" has no redeeming qualities. The routines the gymnasts (or their stunt doubles) perform really are sights to behold. While not a documentary about gymnastics training, "Stick It" does give a flavor of the grueling training it takes to be a world-class gym­nast, and a certain well of appreciation springs up for competitors who represent their countries at athletic competitions. 


The DVD is a single-disc edition that includes the film and little beyond one extra that showcases the gymnasts' stunt doubles in the film. Also, the commen­taries on the DVD are somewhat insight­ful, but a film that was poorly executed will not have much to say. There are deleted scenes and two music videos ­hardly anything valuable. . 
"Stick It" is not a good film -it is a film that has a positive message and showcas­es some amazing gymnastic talent. Some of the routines are mind-blowingly good, while almost all of the acting is mind­blowingly bad. 
A film like this will never see any more treatment beyond its single-disc bare­bones DVD. Your little sister might like it, but you should stick it to the movie studios by not buying it and keep them from ever releasing a film like this again. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
Monday, April 2, 2007 
page 13 
-
Isci!'&mRD 
I 

Brush up on lingo before Final Four tips off 
Shakespeare once wrote, "What's in a name?" Well no offense to William, but when it comes to the wide world of basket­ball, using the proper terminology when watching and playing the game is crucial, as it can either bolster your street cred or expose you worse than a throwback pair of high shorts. For exam­ple, you never want to be caught quoting Bill Walton. While watch­ing March Madness, it would be disastrous to yell out "Throw it down, big man!" after a particularly fierce slam dunk. Glances would be cast side­ways and you might find people slowly shuffling away from you on the sofa. As a result, here's a quick compilation of some of the latest and great­est court comments. 
+"Dummy," verb, to block someone's shot. Synonyms: to stuff, to reject. Usage: "Oh man, did you see Oden dummy that 
?"
guy. 
+"Hops," noun, the ability to jump high. Synonymsfmterchangeable phrases: "to get up" (as in, "Ohman, he really got up there) and "bunnies" ("Nate Robinson is only 5­foot-7, but boy does he have bunnies.") 
+"Cookies," grammatical part unknown. Exclamation: "Cookies!" is usually shouted during a game if one player loses control of the ball and an opposing player steals it. The origins of this phrase remain 

Tae Andrews 
Scene Editor 

unknown, but it is rumored that its birth has something to do with the age-old rhyme, "Who stole the cookies from the cookie jar?" etcetera. 
+"Handle(s)," singular and plural noun. The ability to dribble the ball well. Usage: "Ohman, Steve Nash has sick handles" would be a good choice to use as the mop­top hero bounces around the court. 
+"To get sick with it." Related phrases: "To get nasty," "to get up." This phrase can refer to a variety of things, but is mainly related to dazzling plays, as in "Oh gid­dyup! Tim Duncan just got sick with it all over Carmelo Anthony's face." It's usually said as, "sick wit it." Not to be confused with "getting jiggy with it." 
+"Ballin'," noun. This word has a lot of meanings (and also inspired the current hip-hop smash single by Jim Jones). "Ballin"' refers to succeeding at any walk in life, but especially on the court or in making a lot of money (synonyms: scrilla, cheddar, bread, etc.) Usage: "Wow, Manu Ginobili is just ballin' right now." 
+To "break someone's ankles" is to cause them to stumble, trip up on their own feet and perhaps even fall down after juking them with a nasty crossover. 
+"Teardrop," noun. Synonym: "floater." A high-arcing shot usually launched by a shorter player over a taller one, which con­cludes its journey going through the hoop. Usage: "Wow, Tony Parker just floated that teardrop shot over Elton Brand and in!" 
+To "have game" actually has two defi­nitions: one, the ability to successfully woo a female by use of smooth conversation and two, the quality of being a good bas-ketball player, as in the hit film "He Got Game," featuring Denzel Washington and Ray "Jesus Shuttlesworth" Allen. 

+"Mercin'," verb, to generally inflict pain and destruction; to bring ruin to another's doorstep; to impose one's will on the game. Usage: "Kobe Bryant is just mer­cin' right now. No one in the league can stop him." 
+"Kicks," noun, basketball shoes (or just shoes in general). As in, "Oh man, nice kicks! I didn't know you had copped that pair of white-on-white Air Force Ones." 
+"Facial," noun. Related term "posteri­zation." A bone-jarring dunk delivered with ferocious intensity as one player rises above another, usually less athletic player (or a player who just so happens to be in 
-
the wrong place at the wrong time) and slams the ball home, usually to raucous applause. 
+Also, any phraseology from the vintage video game "NBA Jam" is fair game: phrases such as "boom-shaka-laka," "raz­zle dazzle" and "is it the shoes?" have enduring relevance. Of course, if you have any questions , concerns or comments, feel free to contact our very own campus Merriam Webster of basketball terminolo­gy, Hudson Sullivan. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
DVD REVIEW 
'Ghost' DVD remains timeless tale of true love 
By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Editor 
In the canon of so-called "chick flicks," Jerry Zucker's "Ghost" is always ranked near the top. Although it first appeared onscreen 17 years ago, it still remains as romantic and endearing as a movie could be. A special collector's edition of "Ghost" was recently released, and it includes a number of additional extras that make it a very worthy purchase. 
The film tells the story of a young cou­ple, Sam Wheat (Patrick Swayze) and Molly Jensen (Demi Moore), whose love is shattered when Sam is slain in a seemingly senseless event. Although he's dead, Sam's spirit still lingers on earth. He realizes he is stuck as a ghost so he can solve his murder. In his quest to find his killer, he teams up with Oda Mae Brown (Whoopi Goldberg), a psychic and the only person who is able to talk to him. Through Oda Mae, Sam and Molly are able to once more reconnect their love, and along the way they hunt for his killer, discovering a deeper and more vengeful act than what his murder first appeared to be. 

"Ghost" won two Academy Awards: one for the screenplay, and the other for Best Actress in a Supporting Role for Whoopi Goldberg. Goldberg's perform­ance as a fake psychic who actually sees the ghost of Sam is definitely top-notch, and that alone is worth a watch. The late Vincent Schiavelli also puts in a sur­prisingly memorable performance, albeit a short one, as the subway ghost who helps Sam deal with his (literally) spiri­tual condition. Following suit are per­formances by both Demi Moore and Patrick Swayze who shine as the film's focus. 
Interestingly enough, as the documen­tary "The Making of a Classic" points out, the producers and director had no desire for Patrick Swayze to play the lead. He had just finished the movie "Road House," which was not received well by audiences or critics. Although they did not contact him for the part, Swayze read the script and asked if he could audition. It was only after his reading that the producers and director decided to cast Swayze in the role. Similarly, Goldberg got involved only after friends showed her the script and urged her to try out. 
This documentary, as well as the other features, makes the special edition a great purchase, even for fans who already have the original DVD edition. The documentary also intersperses footage of the actors on the set -which is unique and interesting to watch in relation to the characters the actors and actresses play -as well as new inter­views from both Goldberg and Swayze. Scene dissection analyzes the making of the well known "pottery scene" between Moore and Swayze and an "Inside the Paranormal" featurette showcases inter­views from real psychics and mediums who talk about their experiences. The commentary track features Zucker and screenwriter Bruce Joel Rubin, who focus on elements of the script as well as the special effects work that was done for the film. 

"Ghost" is easily one of the best films that deal with paranormal elements in the real world. It manages to be roman­tic without being sappy and humorous without losing its important and weighty message. While it is nearly two decades old, "Ghost" tells the kind of timeless story that will always have a place in people's hearts. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
NBA 
Suns torch Mavericks in Western showdown 
-Butler fractures hand in Wizards' win over Bucks; Bulls rebound from overtime loss to beat Atlanta 105-97 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April 2, 2007 

Associated Press  4-of-4 on 3s.  
"We were getting good  
PHOENIX-If Phoenix plays  looks," Marion said.  
the Dallas Mavericks a few  "Everybody was rotating,  
weeks from now in the  making the extra pass. When  
Western Conference finals,  everybody makes the extra  
confidence should be no prob­ pass, you get open looks and  
lem for the Suns.  you're going to knock down  
Not with the way they han­ some shots."  
dled the Mavericks on Sunday.  Stoudemire, who scored 41  
With Leandro Barbosa lead­ in the Suns' come-from­ 
ing a parade of big scorers  behind 129-127 double-over­ 
with 29 points, the Suns beat  time victory at Dallas on  
the Mavericks for the second  March 14, made 10 of 13  
time in 18 days, 126-104.  shots Sunday. In the last two  
Amare Stoudemire added 24  games against the Maverieks,  
points and Steve Nash had 23  Stoudemire was 26-of-32 from  
points and 11 assists as the  the field.  
Suns snapped Dallas' nine­ "It's just tough because my  
game winning streak and fin­ jumper is falling now, so it  
ished the season series 2-2.  makes it harder for the  
After a scoreless first quarter,  defense to figure out what I'm  
Shawn Marion had 20 points  going to do," Stoudemire said.  
on 8-for-10 shooting. He also  ''I'm either going to shoot the  
frustrated Dallas' Dirk  jumper, drive around them or  
Nowitzki most of the after­ pass it out for a 3. It's pretty  
noon.  much piek your poison with  
"That's about as good as we  myself and also for the team."  
ean play," Phoenix coach Mike  APEven the hard-to-please  
D'Antoni said.  Phoenix Suns, from left, Jalen Rose, Kurt Thomas, Steve Nash, and Shawn Marion wereNash seemed satisfied for a  
The Suns shot 65 percent  all smiles in the waning moments of their 126-104 win over Dallas Sunday.change.  
(46-of-71). the highest in the  "Sometimes to a fault we've  
NBA this season and a record  played to the level of our com­ one's going to defend us well."  nity to come back as soon as  Atlanta since April 9, 2004.  
for any team at US Airways  petition. Fortunately it's good  Wizards 121, Bucks 107  possible."  Overall, they have won five of  
Center, formerly America West  on nights like tonight," he  Getting a win didn't lessen  He entered the game aver­ six and 12 of 16.  
Arena.  said. "Tonight I give us high  the jolt to the Washington  aging 19.1 points and 7.5  "It seems like every time we  
Phoenix shot 86 percent in  marks for energy and consis­ Wizards' playoff drive.  rebounds.  come down here, it's on a  
the fourth quarter (13-for-15),  tency. When we play well, no  Gilbert Arenas scored 19  "Caron is going to out for a  back-to-hack situation,"  
points and Caron Butler added  long time," Wizards coaeh  Hinrich said. "Every quarter,  
19 points but fractured his  Eddie Jordan said. "Everybody  we just got a little better. We  
right hand early in the second  in the league has had some  were able to do enough to get  
half of the Wizards' victory  devastating injuries. Miami  the win, and we'll definitely  
over the Milwaukee Bucks on  with (Dwyane) Wade and even  take it. It was just a matter of  
Sunday.  the Lakers with (Lamar) Odom  being able to stop them con­ 
"That's a blow," Arenas said.  for a while. You can just go  sistently."  
"You never want an injury as  down the list. We've got a  Josh Smith finished with 24  
you're getting ready for the  capable bench. We don't have  points for the Hawks, who  
playoffs. To see him go down  a Caron Butler All-Star, but if  have dropped six straight  
with an injury like that is  we can collectively do things  overall. They never led after  
hurtful."  at a high level, we should win  Tyronn Lue's 3-pointer made  
Butler wasn't optimistic  our share of games and go  it 78-75 with 10:52 remaining.  
about returning this season.  onto the playoffs."  After Smith's putback of a  
"Second round, third round  runner he missed at the 3:57  
(of" the playoffs), a possibility,"  Bulls 105, Hawks 97  mark of the third, the 21­ 
Butler said after the game, his  Less than 24 hours after a  year-old missed his next six  
hand in a east. "But right now,  tough overtime loss to  shots. He denied that having  
I probably won't have a jersey  Cleveland, the Chicago Bulls  Ben Wallace and Tyrus  
on until next year."  were glad to see the Atlanta  Thomas block consecutive  
Butler said the accident  Hawks.  attempts affected his confi­ 
happened when he was going  "We had some moments  dence.  
- up to challenge a shot by Ruben Patterson and his right  where we were sharp, but overall we clearly had some  Smith also thought Atlanta held together defensively,  
hand hit the backboard.  lag from the game yesterday,"  even though Thomas dunked  
"My hand caught under the  Chicago coach Seott Skiles  over him and converted a  
rim, and it popped out of  said. "That's why you have to  three-point play early in the  
place," said Butler, who was  win these types of games."  fourth.  
playing his third game since  Luol Deng scored 30 points  "They started hitting shots,"  
missing six games with a left  and Kirk Hinrich had 22 in the  Smith said. "They were hitting  
AP  knee contusion. "I see a hand  Bulls' 11th straight victory  tough shots. You can't do any­ 
Utah forward Matt Harpring, left,  puts a stop to Houston forward  specialist tomorrow.  over the Hawks, Sunday.  thing about that when you're  
.....  Shane Battier's progress during U tah's 86-83 win Sunday.  Hopefully, I'll get the opportu- The Bulls haven't lost to  playing defense."  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Join the JanSport team! Jan Sport is currently seeking Student 
WANTED 
Ambassadors during Fall 2007 for an on-campus paid internship. For more info on the position visit: IMMEDIATE OPENINGS. www.jansport.com/students Or 
email: jason_lucash@vfc.com $15.50 base­appt. flexible schedules, no exp.needed. customer sales/serv­ice, conditions apply, all ages 17+, 
FoR SALE
positions in all of Indiana & Michigan, 
•No CONDos• NEW 2/3 BR,2 bath 273-3835. condos Minutes from campus 
Starting in $130,000s 574-252­www.workforstudents.com 2427 ndcondos.com Reserve Yours 
Today! NEED A SUMMER JOB? Camp Tannadoonah is hiring 2007 camp Cute House $59K-near ND,3BR,wd staff. Have the best summer of your flrs,2BA,garage,zen Garden by life! architect.deck,alarmsys.fireplace,re 
nted@$650. Visit www.tannadoonah.org 614-353-5889 
FoR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com 
BETTER HOMES, BETTER AREAS,BETTER DEALS. BlueGoldRentals.com 
Now leasing for 2007/8. Great houses close to campus. 
Anlanproperties@ com cast. net 
Very large home for rent for next school year. 1 block east of cam­pus. Walk to class/food/shops. 4 huge bedrms/3 full baths/large kitchen-lam rm & laundry rm. 3 decks overlook huge fenced yard. Very private & safe! Must see! 239­707-2025. 

3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for Houses for rent for 2007/8,8/9. PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. 07/08 school year. On line see rent-Close to campus. 3-9 bedrooms. If you or someone you love needs nd.com or mmmrentals.com. Call Anlan Properties at 532-1896. confidential support or assistance, Contact Gary at please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­
5 rooms for rent, summer 2007. 741 7819. For more information, visit Grooms@ourwebspot.net or phone Eddy. Very close, available NOW if our web site at 574-277-4759. necessary. $300/mo per person. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­
(913)481-1918. acrutchf@nd.edu nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad RENTLIKEACHAMPION 3-5 in The Observer. bdrms avail for 07-08. $250/bdrm. 3BR House-near Call 312-545-5123 or email ND/food/bus,2BA,garage,zen gar-PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­mitchell.58@ nd.edu den,deck,alarmsys ONE WHO IS? You do not have to 
be alone. We want to help. Call our 1 bdrm apts available summer & fall 614-353-5889 24 hour confidential hollins at 1­
07. 1 mi to ND in quiet historic BOO-No-ABORT or visit our website neighborhood. $575/mo. $675 at www.lifecall.org 
Laundry/Security. Call 574-532­8718. Adopt: A young loving couple long to share their Hearts and home with Condo for rent-walk to ND/SM. Grt a newborn & will provide Endless
PERSONAL
loc.Spac.Lower,2b/2b incl.all appli. love. Expenses paid call Eileen & A/C,Carpet,Porch,Car Port $925 + Ed at 1-800-718-6577 utiI. 630-417-What angel wakes me from my 8763/MCL214 @aol.com flowery bed? Tytania I hate you Chris Carpenter 



OUND THE NATION 
Monday, April 2, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NBA 


Eastern Conference, 
A~li)J,;tti~'Q.ivisiort,: 
team record 
Toronto 40~32 New Jersey 34"39 New York 3H2 Philadelphia 29-44 '''''11;$../ Boston 22e50 '18; Eastern Conference, .centrai.•D:i:i~''i 
team record pet; ·,,, GlJ '' ,, 
Detroit ·47-26 ;644 
. Cleveland 44-29 •603 , Chicago 44·31 .587 Indiana 31-41 ~431 Milwaukee 25·47 .347 Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record Pet. .· Gl3 .·.. 
Washington 39·33 .542 Miami 39·34 .534 . ;5.
·:; .. ::;··.,,5:5'"
Orlando 34,39 ;466 Charlotte 28-45 .384 11;5 Atlanta 27·47 .365 1~ 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pet. 
Utah 47-25 .653 Denver 35-36 .493 SeaHie 30-42 .417 Minnesota 30-42 .4.17 Portland 29-44 .397 

Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pet. GEJ. 
Phoenix :55..18 .753 -~· 
lA lakers 38·34 .lif8 
"' lA Clippers 36-37 .493 Golden State 35-39 .473 Sacramento 30-41 ;423 
team recqrd 
Dallas 6M2 San Antonio 52•20 Hotl$lon 47-26 NO/Oklahoma City , 33-40 Memphis 19-56 
NCAA Wo•neri'i~G 
IWLCA .T.I'"'" ··Q 
team 

1 Northwestern 2 Duke 3 Georgetown 4 North Carolina 5 NOTRE DAME 6 Princeton 6 Dartmouth 8 Maryland 9 Virginia 10 Johns Hopkins 11 Cornell 12 James Madison 13 Richmond 14 Penn State 15 Syracuse 16 Hofstra 17 BU 18 Stanford 19 Vanderbilt 20 Penn 
around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL Division I National Championship Ohio State vs. Florida 9:18p.m., CBS 
MLB Orioles at Twins 7 p.m., ESPN2 
TENNIS 


Associated Press 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. ­
Novak Djokovic whacked 
the tournament's final 
shot for a winner, then 
collapsed on his back, 
sprawled at the baseline. 
Djokovic rose to 
embrace his opponent and 
climbed into the stands to 
hug his parents. He 
returned to the court and 
threw his shirt and racket 
to the cheering crowd. 
The kid plays with flair 
and celebrates the same 
way. 
Djokovic succeeded 
where Roger Federer 
failed, beating qualifier 
Guillermo Canas 6-3, 6-2, 
6-4 Sunday to win the 
Sony Ericsson Open. 

Canas upset the top­ranked Federer twice last month, including in the fourth round Tuesday. But the 29-year-old Argentine's relentless baseline game failed to faze the 19-year-old Djokovic, who dominated with his versatile shot­making and held every service game. 
"I hope this is only the start," said Djokovic, run­ner-up at Indian Wells, Calif., two weeks ago. "I was always trying to com­pare myself to the best players in the world, because that's what I want to be. Right now I feel like probably for the first time in my career I'm on that level, that I deserve to be one of the three best play­ers in the world." 
Seeded 1Oth, Dj okovic will improve to a career­high No. 7 in the rankings Monday. With his first ATP Masters Series title, the slender Serb became the youngest men's champion in the tournament's 23­year history. 
Djokovic won every set he played _ the first time the Key Biscayne men's champion has done that since Ivan Lendl in 1989. 
"Tennis has a new star today," tournament chair­man Butch Buchholz said. "He's going to be around." 
Djokovic has already put Serbia back on the tennis map. The nation touts a modest tennis tradition aside from Monica Seles, a nine-time Grand Slam champion who was in the crowd Sunday. 
''I'm very happy about that because she was one of my idols when I was young," Djokovic said. 
The crowd roared when Djokovic skipped a fore­hand winner off the base­line on match point, and his exuberant celebration kept the cheers coming. Once he was shirtless, he waved his racket in sever­al directions before throwing it to a delighted young woman in the front row. 

IN BRIEF  
Pfessel youngest IPGA cham­piOn ever  Wade returns to practice after suffering shoulder injury  Purdue receiver stabbed in late-night bar brawl  
RANCHO MIRAGE, Calif. -Morgan  MIAMI -Dwyane Wade is ready to  WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - 
Pressel became the youngest major  begin his comeback.  Purdue coach Joe Tiller is consider­ 
champion in LPGA Tour history  Nearly six weeks after ilislocating his  ing possible disciplinary measures  
Sunday with a game well beyond her  left shoulder, the reigning NBA finals MVP  against a football player who was  ..  
18 years, closing with a 3-under 69 at  will attempt to practice with the Miami  stabbed in the chest, another who  
the Kraft Nabisco Championship as  Heat on Monday, his first attempt at a full  was later arrested on suspicion of  
everyone around her self-destructed.  workout since suffering the injury.  drunken driving and any other  
Pressel played her final 25 holes  "It's going to feel pretty good to get back  teammates who might have been at  
over Mission Hills without a bogey,  out there," Wade said Sunday during a  the late-night bar fight near cam­ 
finishing the round with a 10-foot  visit to Miami Children's Hospital, while  pus.  
birdie putt that looked as though it  his teammates were playing at Detroit to  Receiver Selwyn Lymon, who  
would be only good enough for sec­ end a three-game road trip. "The only  started 12 games as a sophomore  
ond place.  thing I can do is continue to work hard."  last season. was in fair condition  
Then came a shocking collapse  After Sunday, Miami has nine regular  Saturday at St. Elizabeth Medical  
from Suzann Pettersen, the latest and  season games left, starting Tuesday  Center.  
most significant on a sun-baked after­ against Toronto. The playoffs open April  Safety Torri Williams, arrested on  
noon in the desert.  21.  the alcohol charge less than an  
Sandra Post, who was 20 years, 19  Wade was averaging 28.8 points when  hour after Lymon was stabbed early  
days when she won the 1968 LPGA  he was hurt in a collision with Houston's  Friday, was identified in police  
Championship.  Shane Battier on Feb. 21. Entering  records as having been with Lymon  
The kid broke down in tears again,  Sunday, the Heat had gone 13-6 since  and at least one other player during  
this time over the shock and euphoria  Wade's injury, rising from a team on the  the fight at Nick's Nightclub, Maj.  
of winning a major 10 months after  Eastern Conference playoff bubble to one  Charlie Williams of the Tippecanoe  
graduating high school.  contending for the Southeast Division title.  County Sheriff's Department said.  


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 2, 2007 
PGA 

Scott trumps Appleby in Australian battle 

INTERES BECOMING UN IL? 
11 
··...·· tu ent

Applica epted thro ~~ s' d Government r~~...-1"'."~ LaFortune) 
You can find an or online at: 
-Participa , ef!~ire year's , tment .,.,.,,,.,.. llowing those stu opp'ortunity to be apart of next year's class council. 
>::;:::;·:·:·. 

-No previous stud Is required toii11~pply. Questions? en1ail class09@nd.edu 
Scott nails SOfoot putt on final hole to finish 3 strokes ahead ofpack 
Associated Press 
HUMBLE, Texas-Adam Scott came to the Houston Open starv­ing for the stress of competition to prepare him for the Masters. 
He got what he needed from fel­low Australian Stuart Appleby. 
Scott held off Appleby with a 6­under 66 on Sunday, saving par with a 50-foot putt on the 72nd hole after hitting his tee shot into the water. 
Scott finished at 17 under, three strokes ahead of Appleby, the defending champion, and third­round leader Bubba Watson. 
Scott said before the tourna­ment that he was rusty after tak­ing a month off earlier this year. He tied for 61st at Doral and was pleasantly surprised how well his game held up under pressure this week heading into the Masters. 
"It was good for me to play in the heat of the battle again," Scott said. "Just to know how to control your nerves will be good for me." 
Playing together, Scott led Appleby by one stroke as they stood on the 18th tee, but Scott pulled his tee shot into the pond that lines the left side of the 488­yard hole, the course's most diffi­cult. 
Scott immediately had a flash­back to the 2004 Players Championship, when he had a two-shot lead on the final day and pulled a 6-iron into the water on the 72nd hole. 

"I don't know. Water on the left," Scott said. "It's not ideal for me, obviously." 
He salvaged a winning bogey at Sawgrass and got away with it again Sunday. 
Appleby drove into the fairway bunker, then immediately gave Scott a reprieve by hitting his approach into the water near the green. 
"I knew what I had to do," Appleby said. "It's just a matter of you've got to do it. And I didn't get to do it." 
Scott took his drop, hit his approach safely away from the water, then holed the par-saving putt. He pumped his fist, Tiger Woods-style, after the ball disap­peared and the crowd roared. 
"It was relief, along with ela­tion," said Scott, who earned his first win since last year's Tour Championship. "I was pretty happy for it to be all over with, because it was looking a bit messy." 
Appleby took a double bogey to finish with a 69. But it was easily his best finish of the year and filled him with confidence heading to Augusta. 
"I like the way I hit the ball," he said. "I want to get there (to Augusta) and get set for that. I'm ready to go." 
Watson, searching for his first win, birdied the last hole for a 72. 
Scott became the sixth Australian to win the Houston Open, joining Appleby, Bruce Devlin, Bruce Crampton, David Graham and Robert Allenby. Appleby and Crampton have won it twice and the eight victories by Australians are the most in any 
U.S. tour event. Only the British Open (9) has had more champions from Down Under. 
Appleby joked that it eased the sting of losing to know that anoth­er Aussie won. 
"Marginally," Appleby said. 

The 26-year-old Scott spent four weeks in Europe before returning at Doral. He shot a final-round 80 _ including a 10 on one hole _ and wasn't optimistic before the Houston Open started. 
But his swing held up all week and his putting improved with each round, even when his nerves started to fray. 
"I really needed to be in con­tention this week and take some­thing out of it," Scott said. "I can feed off that for next week now." 
Appleby and Scott started the day three shots behind Watson, but caught him with birdies on three of their first five holes. The Aussies matched each other shot for shot from there until Appleby bogeyed the par-3 14th and lost the lead for good. 
Scott hit two mammoth 3-woods to reach the 608-yard 15th hole and he two-putted to move to 17 under. Appleby bogeyed the 16th, then birdied the 17th to set up the tense finish. 
AP Adam Scott, right, of Australia, shakes hands with Stuart Appleby after winning the Shell Houston Open Sunday. 
"It's funny what happens com­ing down the stretch," Scott said. "We were solid all day and all of a sudden, you know, a couple of funny shots happened." 
Players were allowed to lift, clean and place their balls in the fairway for the second straight day after a morning thunderstorm dumped a half-inch of rain. 
Storms Saturday morning post­poned the start of the third round for six hours and Watson was one of 27 players who came back Sunday morning to finish. 
Watson bogeyed two of the three holes he played as the sun came up, but still shot an 8-under 64, which tied the course record set on Saturday by Johnson Wagner. 
Wagner, a 27 -year-old tour rookie, started the final round in a five-way tie at 11 under, along with Scott, Appleby, Houston resi­dent Jeff Maggert and Paul Stankowski. 

Monday, April 2, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Rutgers uses stifling defense to defeat LSU 
Tigers score fewest points ever in women's Final Four game; Scarlet Knights earn first berth in national championship 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND --Rutgers' improbable run isn't over. 
The Scarlet Knights earned their first trip to the national championship behind Hall of Fame coach C. Vivian Stringer with another unlikely scenario --dominating the LSU Lady Tigers from the opening tip. 
Matee Ajavon scored 16 points and Rutgers (27 -8) hounded 6-foot-6 Sylvia Fowles to beat LSU 59-35 in a national semifinal Sunday night. The Scarlet Knights used a swarm­ing defense and hot touch from behind the arc to blow out LSU, which scored the fewest points ever in the Final Four -­Louisiana Tech had 44 vs. Tennessee in '87 title game. 
Frustrated by Rutgers' relent­less defenders, Fowles was held to five points and seven rebounds. 
Rutgers double-and triple­teamed Fowles, with Vaughn getting help from Heather Zurich. 
"I tried to keep her as far away from the basket as I 
could," Vaughn said. 
The Lady Tigers (30-8), who were making their fourth straight Final Four appearance, ended a surprising tournament run behind acting head coach Bob Starkey. He was thrust into the spotlight when 
believing in what we know. No one expected us to be here, but these players believe in them­selves. We focused on the defense. We didn't read into the hype. 
"Guess we'll see all you guys 
here on Tuesday." 

coach Pokey With five fresh­
"No one expected

Chatman abruptly men on the roster, resigned March 7 us to be here, but the Scarlet Knights amid allegations these players started the season of improper con­2-4 and are just
believe in 

duct with one or the third No. 4
themselves.,,

more former play­seed to reach the ers. championship. Erica White They'll face the
C. Vivian Stringer

scored nine points winner of the
Rutgers coach

to lead LSU, North Carolina-which also set Tennessee game Final Four lows for field goal and try to become the lowest percentage (26.4) and fewest seed to win an NCAA title. field goals (14). "It's a dream come true," 
The Rutgers crowd chanted Stringer said. "Work hard, get Stringer's initials "C-V-S" in the some rest and see what we can closing minutes. Stringer was do in this next one." hugged by her entire staff as Essence Carson scored 15 she makes her way back to the points before leaving with leg title game 25 years after she cramps in the second half. She took Cheyney there. hit three 3-pointers and Rutgers 
"Wow," Stringer said. "That's was 10-of-20 from behind the the best word to describe what arc, but only 20-of-51 overall. happened here. We talked about "It feels great to have gotten this far. But we can't give up now. Why just settle for this?" Carson said. "We came from nothing and built our founda­tion. To give up now would fall short of what she wants to do." 

LSU was in trouble from the 
THE MINOR IN PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 
The PPE minor invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy. political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about 16 highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. Many of our students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, puhlic policy, philosophy, political science, and economics. 
Ifyou are looking for 
(
1) an integrated approach to politics and justice. without all the requirements of a second major, and 

(2) 
an intellectual community offaculty and students who share your interests, then PPE wants yout 


FOR MORE INFORMATION Professor John Roos, Political Science Department, 424 Decio, 1-7556, Roos.1@nd.edu. 
FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply send a request to Professor Roos. The application deadline is noon on Tuesday, April 10. Late applications will be accepted only if openings are still available. 
PPE INFORMATION MEETING 


opening whistle and never improved. Kia Vaughn won the tip after Fowles appeared unready and barely got off the ground. 
Ajavon hit a 3-pointer and Rutgers broke out to a 12-2 lead in the first 5 minutes, sending the Rutgers cheering section to its feet. 
Fowles was held to 1-for-4 shooting over that span and unbelievably didn't take another shot until the closing seconds of the half. A defender knocked her headband askew on the play and she missed, then screamed out in anger as she ran down the court. 
When Vaughn got her second foul midway through the first half, it seemed Fowles might get her chances after all. 
But freshman Rashidat Junaid held her own against Fowles. With three freshman on the floor, Rutgers increased its lead to 21 on another Ajavon 3­pointer late in the first half. 
LSU went right to Fowles on the first possession of the sec­ond half and she scored easily, but got nothing else going the rest of the way. 
"She was a little frustrated," -Ajavon said. "It was just a defensive effort.... We're here to stay." 

.,. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 2, 2007 
ND TRACK WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Notre Dame qualifies Irish extend win streak to 4 
and attack Caitlin McKinney play, taking an 8-0 lead in the
7 athletes for regionals Laxers defeat UConn 
gave the Irish a two-goal edge, first half. Duquesne fmally got in close contest while and senior Meghan Murphy on the board with six minutes 
Team travels to both Stanford and Purdue, sets 18 Big East times By BILL BRINK Sports Writer Notre Dame, which this week­end sent athletes to both the Stanford Invitational in Stanford, Calif., and the Mike Poehlein Invitational in West Lafayette, Ind., continued to build on its success this outdoor season. The Irish qualified seven ath­letes for the NCAA Mideast Regionals and posted 18 Big East qualifying times. Irish coach Joe Piane was  sonal-best time of 1:50.26 earned him 1Oth place and a regional qualifying spot. Senior Molly Huddle finished fifth in the 5,000 meters, run­ning a time of 15:50.53. Besides qualifying her for the regional meet, that time put her among the country's leaders. "Molly Huddle ran very, very well, probably one of the top three or four times in the coun­try right now," Piane said. Senior Amy Kohlmeier's time of 16:51.26 in the 5,000 meters was good enough to qualify her for the regionals as well. Rounding out the field of NCAA qualifiers was freshman Lindsey Ferguson, who finished ninth in the 3,000-meter stee­plechase with a time of 10:45.41.  breezing by Duquesne By MIKE BRYAN Sports Writer After losing to Syracuse 16-13 March 18, Notre Dame has been unstoppable, extending its winning streak to four games this weekend by upending Connecticut 12-11 Friday and Duquesne 15-7 Sunday. The Irish (9-2, 2-1 Big East) started the weekend with a 12­11 win Friday over Big East opponent Connecticut (5-3, 0-2) in a game that was close throughout. Sophomore Jane Stoeckert got the Irish off to a strong start, scoring two unassisted  scored her first goal of the left in the first half on a Sarah game to give Notre Dame a 12­Cates goal and went into half­10 lead with two minutes left­time trailing 8-3. their largest lead of the night. The Dukes continued their Senior Laura run early in the Trzasko scored second half, cut­for Connecticut "In late game ting the Irish lead in the final min­to 8-5. That wouldsituations, we haveutes, but the Irish be the closest escaped with the confidence that Duquesne would one-goal victory. we're going to find get, as Notre "In late game Dame scoreda way to win. " situations, we seven of the next have confidence nine goals for the that we're going Tracy Coyne 15-7 win. to find a way to Irish coach Byers once win," Irish coach again led the Irish Tracy Coyne said. with four goals Neither team held more than and an assists, and Murphy a two-goal lead in a tight game posted another impressive per­that featured five ties and four formance with three goals and lead-changes. Notre Dame is two assists. now 3-0 in one-goal matches Sophomore Kathleen McNish  
pleased with the team's per­formance at the Stanford Invitational, where all the Mideast qualifying times were set.  Junior Brienne Davis led the Irish in West Lafayette, winning both the 100-meter and 200­meter dash. She took the 100 with a time of 12.34 seconds  goals in the first six minutes to give Notre Dame a 2-0 lead. Connecticut quickly recovered, however, putting together a 6-2 run fueled by two Janet  this season. Nine different Irish players recorded points in a balanced offensive performance. Byers led the team with four goals  led the Dukes with three points on a goal and two assists. Notre Dame outshot Duquesne 31-24, and goalie Erin Goodman recorded eight  
"It was a terrific meet," he said. "On the guys' side, we brought ten fellas, and every one of them ran the best time they'd ever run outdoors. Four of those guys qualified for the NCAAs."  and won the 200 in 25.06 sec­onds. Sophomore Mary Saxer won the long jump with a dis­tance of 5.66 meters, and fresh­man J aclyn Espinoza won the discus throw with a distance of 47.38 meters.  Williams goals. Attack Jillian Byers' third goal of the half brought the Irish into halftime trailing only 6-5. The Irish quickly tied up the game at 7-7 in the second half behind sophomore midfielder  and an assist, and Billings and Stoeckert netted two goals each. Huskies senior attack Shannon Burke, the Big East's leading scorer, led Connecticut with two goals and two assists.  saves for the Irish. "If we want to win the Big East tournament and a national championship, we'll have to learn how to win games just one day apart like this week­end," Coyne said. "This week­ 
Senior Todd Ptacek finished third in the 3,000-meter stee­plechase, posting a personal­best time of 8:57.87 and quali­fying for the NCAA regionals. Sophomore Patrick Smyth  Piane partially attributed the success of the team to the oppo­nents they faced. "Rise to the level of the com­petition, and they are going to improve significantly," Piane  Alicia Billings' two goals. Notre Dame and the Huskies then traded goals and remained in a deadlock at 9-9 with just over 10 minutes left. Goals by midfielder Kaki Orr  In Notre Dame's second game of the weekend, Duquesne (4-5) proved less of a challenge for the Irish, falling 15-7 at Moose Krause Stadium. The Irish dominated the early  end was a good test of what those kind of games will be like." Contact Mike Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu  

placed fifth in the 5,000 meters with a time of 13:48.53. The outdoor track significantly improved Smyth's performance -a personal best that qualified him for the regionals. 
"Smyth ran ten seconds faster than he did indoors," Piane said. "He can run faster than that, and he will. Now he's run­ning 13:48, the next step is to run 13:40. You just set the bar at the next level." 
Junior Jake Watson finished fifth in the 1500 meters with a time of 3:45.25 and earned his first regional bid in the event. Junior John Cavanaugh's per­

-
... 
said. "[Freshmen] Blake Choplin and Cameron Eckert ran the best times of their lives. Why is that? Because of the quality of the competition." 
Choplin and Eckert both ran Big East qualifying times. 
The Irish had 42 athletes fin­ish in the top 10 of their respec­tive events or heats, a testa­ment to the depth of the team. 
"And that's what you need in order to win the Big East con­ference," Piane said. "And that's going to be our goal." 
Contact Bill Brink at 
wbrink@nd.edu 

April4-5 
lOam -lpm Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Herff Jones, Framing Success and Balfour will be present to take your orders for class rings and diploma frames. 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore staff can answer regalia questions and help you find everything you'll need for commencement. 



0700LF031307A 

BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndcatolog.com 
Monday, April 2, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S TENNIS 
ND shut out in Columbus 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
Notre Dame almost forgot how to lose, winning 11 straight meets and dropping only 14 matches over that stretch. But the Irish were forced to peel themselves off the pavement Friday night, falling 7-0 to Ohio State in Columbus. 
''I'm still trying to get the number of the truck that hit us in Columbus," Notre Dame coach Bobby Bayliss said. "[Ohio State] played aggressive­ly and really well. They didn't make many mistakes." 
The No. 3 Buckeyes jumped ahead in the match by winning doubles play, the 43rd time in their last 47 matches that they have won the doubles point. 
Buckeyes Drew Eberly and Justin Kronauge defeated No. 7 Ryan Keckley and Sheeva Parbhu 8-6 at the No. 1 doubles position. Devin Mullings and Chris Klingemann then secured the doubles point for Ohio State with an 8-5 win over Barry King and Brett Helgeson. Notre Dame's only glimmer of hope came when the No. 3 doubles team of Stephen Bass and Andrew Roth knocked off Steven Moneke and Bryan Koniecko 9-7. 
With the doubles point in hand, Ohio State went on to sweep Notre Dame in singles 
play. No. 10 Moneke knocked off No. 8 Bass with a 6-1, 6-4 victory at the No. 1 spot. No. 25 Bryan Koniecko then defeated No. 54 Parbhu 4-6, 6-1, 6-2. Third in line for the Buckeyes was No. 34 Mullings, who cruised past Helgeson with a 6­2, 6-0 victory. 
Despite falling to Ohio State Friday night, the No. 5 Irish battled back to post a 5-2 win over No. 6 Illinois at home Sunday. 
Bayliss said the win over the Fighting Illini somewhat redeemed the loss to the Buckeyes. 
"If you lay an egg once a year and you bounce back they way we did today, it's OK," he said. 
Illinois jumped ahead to the early 1-0 lead after taking the doubles point. Kevin Anderson and Ryan Rowe defeated Keckley and Parbhu 8-4. Marc Spicijaric and G.D. Jones clinched the doubles point with an 8-4 win over King and Helgeson. 
Bayliss said he challenged his team to bounce back from the 1-0 deficit and they answered. 
Roth was first off the courts for the Irish with a 6-1,6-2 rout of Jordan Knue. Keckley fol­lowed suit with a 6-4, 6-4 win over Brandon Davis. 
Parbhu did not have as easy a win over Jones. The Irish junior dropped the first set 2-6, but rallied for the 2-6, 6-2, 6-3 win. 
King clinched the win for he Irish with a 6-7 (5), 6-1, 6-2 win over Spicijaric. After forc­ing the first set into a tiebreak­er and folding, King came back aggressively for the win. 
"Barry showed an aggressive­ness that I haven't seen before," Bayliss said. "And to me it's a sign of his maturity and growth as a player and as a competitor." 
Even with the win in Notre Dame's name, the battle wasn't over on the courts. 
No. 8 Bass continued to battle with No. 6 Anderson at No. 1 singles. Bass dropped the first set 4-6 but fought back to take the second set 6-2. Down 5-4 in the third set with Anderson serving for match point, the senior broke serve to eventually take the set 7-5 and win the match. 
Helgeson also put up a fight against No. 12 Rowe, but was unable to pull away with a vic­tory as Rowe defeated him 4-6, 6-4, 7-5. 
Despite losing to Ohio State Friday, Bayliss said that he was happy with his team's perform­ance this weekend. 
"We knew we were playing two top-1 0 teams in three days and that's a big load," he said. "And we wanted to make sure we got at least once of the wins, and today we made that hap­pen." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edn 

MEN'S GOLF 
Linksters place 17th in 
loaded Augusta field 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Writer 
In a battle of 10 teams in the top 50 nationally, Notre Dame could not overcome the behe­moths in the field of 18 teams in the Administaff Augusta State Invitational, finishing in 17th place. 
Notre Dame's final score of a 20-over-par 884 put them 31 strokes behind first-place No. 11 Coastal Carolina. Other national powerhouses in the field includ­ed No. 13 East Tennessee State, No. 15 Tennessee, No. 17 North Carolina and No. 29 Georgia State, who all placed in the top six and fmished at par or lower. 
"We didn't get it together like we had hoped to," senior co­captain and All-America candi­date Cole Isban said. "You've got to expect those other teams to perform like they did, but we didn't have our best games." 
The Irish struggled in the sec­ond round especially, scoring a 12-over-par 300 Saturday. 
Before the tournament, Isban predicted that putting would be the most important aspect for Notre Dame's success, and it was his personal undoing for the weekend as he finished with a four-over-par 220. 
"I couldn't make a put to save my life," Isban said. "But a cou­ple other guys putted pretty well. I hit about 16 or 17 greens in regulation, but I had a num­ber of three-putts [on Sunday]." 
The team's performance was good enough, however, to place ahead of one of the participating top-50 programs, No. 28 Minnesota. Irish senior co-cap­tain Adam Gifford, who only recently started traveling with the team, finished tied for eighth with a team-low two­under-par 214. 
His three-under-par 69 Sunday helped the Irish finish the day at a respectable two­over-par 290. Gifford was the only Irish golfer to fmish in the top-40 on the individual leader­board. 
"[Gifford] played probably the best tournament of his career," Isban said. "His game is really coming around." 
The lineup for the weekend also included sophomore Josh Sandman, freshman Doug Fortner and junior Eddie Peckels. Sandman finished with a five-over-par 221, Fortner shot a 13-over-par 229 and Peckels contributed a 25-over­par 241. 
Next weekend, the Irish head to Purdue to participate in the Boilermaker Invitational. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
Attention Seniors! 

Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Admissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Adrnissions sta±T, the counselor is expected to rnak:e an irnportant contribution to the recruitment and selection of the first-year class by managing relations \Vith the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel and cornrnunication within the geographic area, assessment and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual infonnation sessions. 
There are currently three counselor positions available on our staff for 2007-2008. 
Among our candidates, \Ve vvill seek a Latino Recruitment Coordinator. (Fluency in Spanish will be strongly preferred.) We \\rill also seek an Asian Recruitment Coordinator. Additional responsibilities \vill be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and strong familiarity \vith all aspects of student life at 
Notre Dame. Essential qualities include strong cornmunication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplornacy and the ·willingness to \Vork long hours, including many evenings and Saturday rnomings. 
Please Note: Interviews will be scheduled after Easter. Preferred start date is July 1, 2007. 
Please complete the on-line application at http://jobs.nd.edu to be considered. Requisition # 020070065 
r-­
t 
' 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, April 2, 2007 
SMC TENNIS 

Wheaton, Olivet upend Belles over weekend 
By ELLYN MICHALAK SportS Writer 
The competition in this week­end's Wheaton Invitational proved to be too tough for Saint Mary's. The Belles fell twice, once to tour­nament-host Wheaton College and then again to Olivet Nazarene to finish 0-2 on their trip into Illinois. 
Wheaton easily defeated the Belles 9-0 in their first match to add another win to its perfect record. 
"Wheaton College is definitely one of the top teams, if not the top team, in the Midwest," Belles coach Dee Stevenson said. 
In the first individual match of the Invitational opener Friday, Wheaton sophomore All­American Jordan Hook defeated Belles captain Kelly McDavitt in straight sets, 6-1 and 6-0. Belles freshman Camille Gebert did not have much luck in the No. 2 sin­gles spot, where she was defeated 7-5 and 6-0 by freshman Christin Thompson. 
In the third match of the day, Thunder senior Karly Olson defeated Belles freshman Lisa Rubino 6-2 and 6-3. In the follow­ing match, senior Tara O'Brien failed to win a game against Thunder junior Shannon Hale, falling in straight 6-0 sets. 
In the fifth singles spot, Saint Mary's junior Cassie Quaglia com­peted against Wheaton junior Brooke Parrish and lost 6-2 and 6-0. In the final singles matchup of the day, Thunder sophomore Brittney Dunn overcame Belles senior Grace Gordon with a score of 6-0 in two straight sets. 

The Belles put forth a stronger effort in the doubles matches, but Wheaton continued to shut down Saint Mary's. The Thunder dou­bles team of Hook and Olson defeated the Belles No. 1 doubles team of Gebert and McDavitt 8-1. In the second doubles match, Belles doubles partners Gordon and O'Brien fell to Dunn and Thompson by a score of 8-1. In the final doubles match of the day, Wheaton's Parrish and Hale defeated Saint Mary's Rubino and O'Brien 8-2. 
The Belles entered Saturday's match looking to defeat Olivet Nazarene for the second straight year, but Olivet Nazarene pro­duced a different result. Saint Mary's lost the match 8-1, while Gordon in the number six singles spot was the only Belle to win. 
"We didn't play particularly well in that match," Stevenson said. "Certainly not up to our full potential." 
McDavitt put forth a strong effort in the No. 1 singles spot, but lost the match in three close sets. Rubino played well in the third spot, battling until the super tiebreaker of the third set. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
NO SOFTBALL 

Irish sweep Big East foes 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 

When Notre Dame began playing back home at Ivy Field March 22, it was 9-12 and coming off a three-game los­ing streak. Since then, the Irish have played 10 straight games at home -all wins ­most recently sweeping dou­bleheaders against Pittsburgh and Syracuse this weekend. 
After a two-hour rain delay Saturday, the Irish (19-12, 8-0 Big East) extended their domi­nance over Pittsburgh (14-21, 2-3) with back-to-hack 4-0 wins. 
The first game remained scoreless until the third inning, when Irish catcher Gessica Hufnagle singled home lert fielder Beth Northway to put Notre Dame on the board. Shortstop Katie Laing then drove Hufnagle in to put the Irish up 2-0. 
Notre Dame put up another two runs in the fourth inning, with center fielder Stephanie Brown's two-run single. Brown had three hits on the game, her fifth three-hit per­formance of the year. 
Irish hurler Brittney Bargar continued her sparkling pitch­ing at home, throwing a com­plete-game shutout against the Panthers. Bargar, a sopho­more, struck out eight and allowed only two hits in the win, her 11th of the season. 
The Irish enjoyed similar 
success in the circle in the second game behind senior Kenya Fuemmeler. Fuemmeler threw a three-hit, complete­game shutout, striking out seven and walking only one for her sixth win of the sea­son. 
Offensively, the Irish manu­factured a run in the bottom of the first when a Laing sacri­fice fly drove home Brown. Notre Dame would not score again until the fifth, when Brown scored on a Laing field­er's choice. Laing then scored all the way from first on third baseman Heather Johnson's double. 
The Irish added an insur­ance run in the sixth with an RBI from right fielder Ashley Ellis for the 4-0 win. 
Notre Dame faced off against Syracuse (1 0-24, 3-5) Sunday and continued its pitching dominance. 
ln the first game, the Irish posted their third shutout in a row with a 7-0 victory over the Orange. Bargar pitched her second shutout in as many days, throwing one-hit ball for six innings while striking out seven. 
Notre Dame seized the lead early, scoring three runs in the bottom of the first. Northway doubled to drive in two runs, and first baseman Christine Lux singled her home before Syracuse could stop the bleed­ing. 
Hufnagle singled home another run in the second, and a Brown double drove in two runs in the third to give the Irish a commanding 6-0 lead. Notre Dame grabbed an insur­ance run in the sixth when Laing doubled home Brown from third. 
In the second game of the doubleheader, both teams remained scoreless for the first two innings. The Notre Dame offense exploded in the third, putting six runs on the board to break the game wide open. Johnson hit a bases­clearing double to drive home three runs, and Lux drove two in with her first career home run. 
Lux also doubled home two runs in the fourth, and a Johnson groundout scored Notre Dame's ninth run. 
The Orange finally got on the scoreboard with two runs in the fifth, but never threat­ened the Irish lead. Hufnagle singled in the bottom of the inning to give the Irish their 10th and final run. 
Brown led the Irish offen­sively on the weekend, going 12-for-15 on the weekend. Bargar and Fuemmeler's efforts gave Notre Dame a 
0.50 ERA in the four games. 
Pitching has fueled the suc­cess at home, where the Irish have allowed only six runs over the 10 games. Five of the wins in the streak have come in the form of shutouts. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 



Monday, April 2, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 


NaiDes 
continued from page 24 
ketball analyst. 
+CroissantWorld (Because We Suck). We're as Bad as Black Dog: These got the biggest laughs when my friends read the list of teams. 
+Senior A&L Majors Closer to Winning Than Finding Jobs: Probably the truth. 
+Which Four of Us Sleep Together?: The most blatantly sexual name to get by the cen­sors. 
+Even Pete Rose wouldn't put money on us: Neither would I. 
+Colbert's Eaglets: Have you guys seen Stephen Jr. recently? 
+Greg Oden's Raven, Brick Tamland's Loud Noises, I love lamp: Points for referencing Steve Carell and "Anchorman." 
+Fact: We Are Faster than 80% of all snakes, Dunder Mifflin: I live just outside of Scranton, Pa., so it's mandato­ry that I love "The Office." 

+Dr. Funke's 100% Natural Good Time Family Band Solution (two teams) : All "Arrested Development" fans must do all they can to keep the memory of one of the best show's of all time alive. 
+That's a Bad Newbie: See above. Even though it is still on the air, "Scrubs" joins "Arrested Development" as one of the most under-appreciated shows of all-time. 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Saint Mary's s"Weeps, is s"Wept in doubleheaders 
By BECKY SLINGER 
Sports Writer 
Even though Saint Mary's lost a doubleheader Saturday to Alma 9-1 and 4-0 -only its second and third losses of the season -it got its season back on track immediately by sweep­ing Manchester 10-2 and 20-0. 
In the first game against Alma, the Scots' hitters got the offense going early, scoring eight runs in the first inning off of seven hits. Belles pitcher Calli Davison, however, calmed down after the first inning, allowing only two more hits and one more run. 
The Belles failed to score a run until the fifth inning when freshman second baseman Mo Healy scored on an RBI from senior shortstop Sarah Miesle. The slaughter rule came into effect after the top of the fifth to give Alma the win. 
In their second loss to Alma, the Belles failed to score any runs on seven hits with nine runners left on base. Sophomore pitcher Kristin Amram allowed just four hits, but the Scots man­aged to capitalize on each hit. 
The two wins put Alma (17 -7) in first in the MIAA with a league record of 4-0. The Belles (13-3) are in eighth, 0-2 in the league. 
"They hit the ball really well in the first inning and jumped out on top. It's really hard to come back from being down 8-0 in the first inning," Belles junior captain McKenna Corrigan said. "They did a good job of scoring first." 
For how anemic the Belles were against Alma, they were just as effective against Manchester Sunday. Davison allowed seven hits with only two runs. Manchester freshman pitcher Kristi Brown allowed 12 hits in the 10-2 loss. 
Healy said the Belles' domi­nance of the Spartans avenged their earlier losses to Alma. 
"It's a big confidence boost. I think we were a little bit nerv­ous about playing out first con­ference game," she said. "Now that we've got that out of the way ... [we can] play to our full potential and have fun." 
In the sixth inning, sophomore second baseman Cathy Kurczak, Davison, Peterson, Healy, Miesle and sophomore catcher Ashley Fusaro all scored a run each for the Belles. In an outstanding offensive performance, Peterson also scored in the first and fourth. Sophomore first base­man Katie Rashid contributed a run in the fifth and Miesle had a run in the sixth. 
The second game against Manchester brought even better results for the Belles, who won the game 20-0, ending the game in only five innings. 
Manchester junior pitcher Tish Bitner allowed 23 hits in the loss. Amram pitched two innings and allowed just one hit before Davison pitched three innings in relief, allowing four hits. 
The Belles broke the game open in the second inning with nine hits. Freshman outfielder Sara Montelongo, Kurczak, Davison, Healy and Fusaro each scored one run. Montelongo also hit a three-run double to add to the Saint Mary's lead. Miesle scored an unearned run and had a three-run homer later in the inning, before Kurczak hit a home run in the third. 
In the fourth inning, five Belles scored unearned runs (Montelongo, Kurczak, Rashid, Peterson and Healy). Healy also singled to bat in two runs. Fusaro contributed a homerun in the fifth. 
Corrigan said the team will work on its confidence for its next league game against Hope Wednesday. 
"Our coach mentioned some­thing about having 'it.' It is the feeling you have when you know something is going to go well or the feeling you have when you're doing well," she said. "We didn't have 'it' ... against Alma. We have to make sure we have 'it' for the rest of our league games." 
Contact Becky Slinger at rslingerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Makeshift squad still wins 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
Despite injuries to multiple key players, No. 2 Notre Dame extended its win streak in dual match play to 13 with a 5-2 indoor victory over No. 28 Wichita St. Friday and a 5-2 outdoor win over No. 38 Tulsa Sunday. 
The Irish (18-1) played with­out junior Brook Buck and freshman Colleen Rielley for the second straight week, forcing Irish coach Jay Louderback to move players around in both singles and doubles play. But even those that did play in the two matches this weekend were not completely healthy, Louderback said. 
"We have a few of them that are struggling with shoulders that have been playing a lot. We go inside and then we get out­side a few days," he said. "For us, I think health-wise we need to get where we can consistently get outside and get used to it. It's a tougher game outside when the wind's blowing -it's like you're hitting a ball that's heavier. It's a little more wear on the body." 
In doubles play, the nationally ranked No. 4 team of seniors Catrina and Christian Thompson won both of their matches this weekend, but at the No. 2 and 3 slots, Louderback deployed two teams that have yet to compete togeth­er in dual match play -fresh­man Kali Krisik with sophomore Kelcy Tefft, and freshman Cosmina Ciobanu with sopho­more Katie Potts. 
"It was really good with our depth," Louderback said. "I thought all three doubles teams -that was the big thing -we had two new doubles teams in both matches... It was good to see the two new doubles teams, the combinations, seeing them play well." 
The two new teams failed to miss a beat, winning all of their matches and giving the Irish the doubles point in both matches. 
Potts, who played with an injured shoulder, and Krisik replaced Rielley and Buck in singles play. Potts went 0-2 from the No. 5 slot, falling to Wichita State's Anna Egorova 6-3, 7-5 Friday and Tulsa's Agostino Santoro 4-6, 6-2, 6-1 Sunday. Krisik won both of her matches in straight sets from the No. 6 slot. 

"Katie had a couple of tough matches, lost both of hers. Kali did a good job," Louderback said. 
Rielley normally occupies the No. 3 slot. This meant that No. 62 Ciobanu and Tefft each had to move up a spot in the lineup and battle tougher competition than they would normally face. 
Both stepped up to the chal­lenge. Ciobanu and Tefft won all of their matches and played a pivotal part in Notre Dame's success this weekend by grab­bing two points in each match. Ciobanu is now 19-0 in dual match play, while Tefft improved to 13-3 this season. 
"Those two just win. They both compete well. They just win, that's all you can say. [Tefft] gets a lot of balls," Louderback said. "She doesn't overpower you, but she makes you play a lot of balls. Her forehand, she doesn't hit really hard, she'll slice it some. But she has a big backhand. It's hard to get into a rhythm against her. 
"[Ciobanu] is solid off the ground, both forehand and background, and if you give her anything loose at all she'll step in and hit it. She can hit win­ners, and just plays a smart game and is good at finishing off points." 
No. 19 Catrina Thompson dropped her match from the No. 1 slot against Wichita State's Madina Rakhim, 7-6, 6-3 Friday, but bounced back Sunday to defeat Tulsa's Kindsay Grimes 6-2, 6-2. "[Rakhim] is really good. She hadn't played any ranked kids, so she didn't have the points to be up there. She's one of the top 20 kids in the country, I think [from] watching her play, because Catrina played well." 
Christian Thompson also went 1-1 over the weekend. On Friday, Thompson defeated Wichita State's Florentina Hanisch 6-1, 6-0 but lost to Tulsa's Santie Delport 6-2, 6-1 Sunday. 
Notre Dame faces Purdue Tuesday. Louderback said he is not sure if Buck and Rielley will play against the Boilermakers. 
"We'll know [today]," he said. 

Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
vs. OAKLAND 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, April 2, 2007 
Battles 

continued from page 24 
sometimes it's still too close to call even when you get it down to two and then you have to make a hard decision." 
This rotation system was in full effect Saturday, when each of the four quarterbacks took turns throwing during the one­on-one drills. The quarterbacks threw to receivers up and down the depth chart and against all skill levels in defensive back. 
In the one-on-one drills, Weis made it clear that rising junior David Grimes and rising sopho­more George West are currently his top two receivers. 
Grimes -whom Weis called the most consistent receiver this spring -has the most experi­ence in an Irish uniform out of the receivers. Grimes finished last season fifth in yards (336) and receptions (26) and caught two touchdowns, one of which came during Notre Dame's 41­14 loss to LSU in the Sugar Bowl. 
But on a team that lost its top two receivers in Jeff Samardzija (78 catches, 1017 yards) and Rhema McKnight (67 catches, 907 yards) along with running back Darius Walker (56, 391), Grimes moved up the depth chart with ease. 
West lacks Grimes' experi­ence, with only two catches for 14 yards all last year, but accli­mated himself to the speed of college football by serving as a kick returner last season next to Grimes. 
"He isn't just running with that first group by default," 

Weis said of West. "At this point he's running with that first group because that's where he would be." 
Weis still hasn't made any decisions about the rest of the receivers because he said they are all too similar to make judg­ments. 
"We're just looking for people to pull ahead or fall behind," Weis said. "But there are too many guys besides David and George that are just in that pack right now." 
Regardless of the position or the players, Weis said he tries to remain balanced and objective in deciding the depth chart, and a large part of that depends on his own honesty with his team. 
"I think it's important to never lie to your players and always tell them the truth and where they stand," Weis said. "It isn't like depth charts never change. Depth charts change eventually and injuries occur on top of that. 
"That's part of being a starter and part of being a backup." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

Brown 
continued from page 24 
finding his opportunities within our offense, and I'm very pleased with how he's playing." 
Notre Dame and Brown traded goals to begin the game. Notre Dame senior midfielder Lucius Polk scored a man-up goal before 
Brown's Alex answered. The Irish respond­ed by scoring five consecu­tive goals to break the game open. 
Junior Michael Podgajny began the run with an unas­sisted goal at the 10:03 mark in the first period, and subsequent goals by Yeatman, attack Peter 
Buckley 
continue our

"Coming out ofhalf­
pace from the

time, it's very easy to 
first half." have a lull and let the The Irish held the Bears
other team back into 
scoreless over

the game. It really 
the final 19:10 closed the door to of the game, highlighting
come out and continue 
the continued

our pace from the first 
stellar play of 
half." junior Notre Dame goalie Joey Kemp. In

Lucius Polk 
a matchup

Irish midfielder 
Christman and midfielder Grant Krebs put Notre Dame up 6-1 early in the second period before the Bears' Jack Walsh found the back on the net. 
"Lacrosse is a sport of runs, and once you get up on a team, it forces them to come after you," Polk said. "Our team thrives on a fast­paced game, and when we go on a run, it forces teams to play into our hands." 
Polk set up another Irish 
goal, this time assisting attack Ryan Hoff, to extend the lead to 7-2 going into the half. Any chance of a Brown comeback was extin­guished early in the second half when goals from Wharton and Yeatman put the game out of reach. 
"Those goals were very important," Polk said. "Coming out of halftime, it's very easy to have a lull and let the other team back into the game. It really closed the door to come out and 
with Brown 
keeper Jordan 
Burke and his .683 save percentage, Kemp outperformed his counter­part, recording 11 saves to Burke's five. 
On the afternoon, Notre Dame out-shot Brown 39­35, and junior Taylor Clagett won 14 of 18 face-offs. 
The Irish will return to action Tuesday at 4 p.m. against Villanova at Moose­Krause Stadium. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

Panthers 
continued from page 24 
offense Friday as he suffered his second loss in seven starts. The sophomore gave up four runs on eight hits and two walks in a total of six and two-thirds innings. The loss brought Phelps' ERA to 1.58. 
Designated hitter Morgan Kielty opened up the first inning for the Panthers with an RBI off of a groundout to first. Kielty shined at the plate again in the fifth with a double to drive in two additional runs -the inning saw Pittsburgh score three runs offthree hits. 
The sixth inning looked hopeful for Notre Dame as senior first baseman Mike Dury stepped up to the plate with the bases loaded. With the tying run at bat, the sen­ior struck out and missed the opportunity to bring the game to four apiece. Sophomore Eddy Mendiola cut the Panthers' lead in half with a two-run double. Brayden Ashdown scored easily with Brett Lilley not far behind him, but A.J. Pollock could not make it in time and was tagged out by catcher Nick Mullins. Mendiola's drive in the sixth was the end of offensive action for both teams. 
Notre Dame looked to threaten again in the eighth as Ashdown drew a leadoff walk off lefthander Rob Brant. The Panthers brought in righthander Kyle Landis to face Pollock. Pollock had little trouble adjusting to the pitching change and drove a single up the middle. Landis shut down the Irish drive with a strikeout and popup to end the inning and maintain the 4-2 lead. 
Notre Dame's inability to capi­talize on promising situations has been a recurring theme recently. 
"As a team we need some more guys to step up in big situations and get that big hit or get the big strikeout," Lilley said. 

Irish centerfielder Danny Dressman squares for a bunt during Notre Dame's 9-11oss to South Florida March 25. 
The Irish loss, he said, couldn't be blamed on one particular play. 
"We are going to win as a team, and we are going to lose as a team," he said. "And we lost as a team." 
Pittsburgh 5, Notre Dame 0 
Nardozzi, a righthander, pitched a two-hit shutout to pro­tect Pittsburgh's ofl'ensive drive in the middle four innings of Saturday's game. 
The matchup remained score­less until Gary Bucuren opened up from the plate for the Panthers in the third. The third baseman drove in an RBI off a sacrifice fly off Irish lefthander Wade Korpi. 
Korpi gave up another run in the fourth before retiring from the mound at the end of the inning. Junior Dan Williams, first at the plate for the Panthers, drove in a homerun to give Pittsburgh the 2­0 lead. Korpi allowed one run off two hits to end the inning. 
Junior righthander Joey Williamson took the mound for the Irish in the fifth and allowed one run. Williamson struggled from the mound again in the sixth as he allowed two more runs off two hits to increase the Panther's lead to 5-0. Williamson allowed no runs in the seventh or the eighth, but the Irish were not able to dig themselves out of the 5-0 hole. 
Nardozzi turned in nine innings from the mound for Pittsburgh, allowing only two hiL'>. 
Despite losing both games to Pittsburgh this weekend, the Irish will look to build from their trials on the road. The two losses brought the team just below the 500-mark with a 12-14 record on the season (1-4 Big East.) 
"Losing this weekend just makes each and every game from here on out that much more important, and we really have to start clicking as a team and start winning," Ulley said. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 


Ttrms: All fa"' artbased on roondtrip trml and indude aStud<ntUnivel!f,.,..iC<fetof$5. llometi< fares mdudea 7 5% US l!ansportation Ln. Otller taK<!s and fm vary, dtpendlfi'J on lh< rtin..ary and ar•not induded. Nlres am subj«:t mil'llilability ami dlang• without notia. Oome<ti< Right> must be purdlaled 8day> in advafl(r and r"!uim a 2 <loy mill stay indudillg • Sat night requiffil max stay630days. r...,I'Oiid Moo-lhu until lui Jl.lntrma· tiOIIil fli9hts valid Moo-Wed must b.t>Uf(hill<d 7d>ys in advanc.and requir• • 4 day mill stay i!Kiudinq aSat night w~h a""" stay ofJ65 diys. f¥« to Europeartvalidfordepartures hom Apr 1tlvooghMoy 11. Asia fa~e<amvalid furdeparlules!hrouqf~Apr l8.AUltralio fa..sart I'Oiidfordepart""' through Apr 17. Bia<kout datesand other restrictions ml)' apply.
ec:• StudentUniverse.com 

Monday, April 2, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 

JUMBLE
CROISSANTWORLD 
MIKE ARGIRION 

~NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
'f€-P-.1-1 , IHE Q1-D

C:AAP-IT ~'fS 
1\-\ER.E: (:lOINI..:r TO 
Sf SNCMJ ~OWE-I:.S 
PEeP\£ -:IJ"L."-INu­

"11-\A\ B'j 
Ao-!D \lvlr-1\:) -A.N"i> 
ABou:r --n.{E: WISP.T>-\\:IC..

\N~ESDP.'i ITS 
11-lE OPT A.Tw
60tt.JU lb 6o 'DOVvo.i 
IN~E-~-~ou ~HouLe> 

INC>E.J(. IS (:rOI>--ll.:< 
P.t>D AN £-.c.TRA 6 TD

Th ~e: '30s 
IO 1--\lr-lUTE$ Tb 'f';'UR. wAL-l<.. L-uHEN \"TS 
ABove: -=t-o. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLACK DoG 

LIAMMORAN

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 

CROSSWORD 


past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). might create Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young quite a buzz? solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
-:::+:--:+-:+.::+::=+=:+.--:+:--:-t:::-i 34 Queen who 
WILLSHORTZ 

62 College digs 63 Traveled 64 Tableau 65 Airport 
screening org. 66 Snake's sound 
DOWN 1 Man of La Mancha 2 Transfer to a mainframe, 
maybe 3 Contaminates 4 Alphabetically 
first pop group with a #1 hit 5 l'oeil 6 Tragic woman in Greek drama 7 Maximally a Nasty 9 Nightmare 10 Britney Spears's " Slave 4 U" 
35 Pro's opposite 45 Noted family of 55 Gulf land 11 Mr. Turkey 
financiers and
36 Roll-call call 56 Gwyneth

13 Jar tops philanthropists Paltrow title 37 Orchestral intra
15 Ashes, e.g. 46 Parenthetical role 
38 Weatherman comments21 "Panic Room" 57 Carrier toScott

actress Foster 47 Fiends 
Stockholm 22 Ink soaker­39 "The Simpsons" 4g Puts forth, as 
upper effort Picard of the 26 Make a 40 Agent, in brief 51 In progress U.S.S. 
35-Across 
44 Just a taste 53 Put away Enterprise 27 Anger 
30 Say again just 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 

for the record, 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 

say 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday33 Afternoons, for crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. short 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 


.. 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Josh Zuckerman, 22: Hannah Spearritt, 26: Gil Scott-Heron, 58: Debbie Reynolds. 75 
Happy Birthday: Changes made too abruptly will backfire, especially if you make th~m in a grandiose manner. View the whole picture before you make promises or take on something unrealistic. Being practical can save you a bundle this year, so slow down and don't make changes based on emotions. Your numbers are II. 17. 21. 29. 35. 38 
ARIES (March 21-April\9): The experiences you have today, if you travel or take on a new hobby. will result in added knowledge that will help you in the future. Someone with more experience will open your eyes to a new way of doing things. You can raise your earning potentiaL 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): The more you do to gel lit and cal properly, the more energy you will have and the more productive you will become. Don't be fooled by someone who is overly friendly. Chances are this person want' something in return. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may be fooled by someone's friendly gestures. Don't be gullible. Emotional situations will escalate if you don't reassess the situation. This is 
not the time to retaliate. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You love to putter around the house, so have fun and make 
those changes you've been contemplating. The more comfortable you make your place. the better. Open your dol>r and enjoy the company of friends and family. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't fall for someone's pie-in-the-sky idea. You can make money but only if you are reasonable. Travel and entertainment will cost you more than you realize. Don't take what others tell you as gospeL For now, rely on your own instincts. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): It's time for a reality check. Reassess your motives. You may be inclined to make a hasty decision that will lead to changes in your personal life that you may regret Settlements, legalities and money matters will leave you feeling confused. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Stop being lazy and give your ideas a chance. If you keep waiting for everyone else to do things for you, nothing will ever get done. Travel, partnerships and being unique will pay off. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Experiment with a new idea or concept you have_ Money is in the picture if you harness your talent and skillfully execute what you have been working so hard to achieve. It's a new beginning so engage it with conlidencc. 3 stars 
.J' 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Put your thoughts on paper and make plans for the future. You have some great ideas that need to be put into play. However, it's simplicity 
~ 
that will win out in the end. Emotional matters can be resolved. 4 stars 
_I 
a
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): It's a new day and there will be a new way to make a 
1
dollar. Your head is spinning with all sorts of entertaining thoughts that could turn out to be lucrative. Property deals are looking good and so is love. 5 stars I I 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): The ideas your imagination comes up with can benclit 
l 
l
you in the future. Look to people you admire for suggestions and you can get the help you need to move yourself to the next level financially. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will experience mixed emotions today. Don't be surprised if someone from your past pops back into your life. Confusion is present, so don't make a hasty decision you will regret Don't let temptation get the better of you. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are bright, original and playfuL You arc a wonderful communicator who is bold, brave and beguiling. You are witty and clever and lean toward the unfamiliar and unusuaL 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidellfia/ consultations 

ACROSS 1 "Survivor" 
shelter 4 $$$ dispenser 7 Circumference 
12 October birthstone 
14 Fox of Uncle Remus tales 
16 "I love you," in Spanish 17 The year 1052 18 Be an omen of 19 Lady !0 OO?'s introduction 
!3 Dustin's role in "Midnight Cowboy" 
!4 Sand holders at the beach !5 Slugger's stat !8 Mag. workers !9 Hip-hop doc? 11 Part of an ellipsis 
32 Prominent part of a dachshund 33 Easy as_ 34 Except 35 Birthday dessert 36 Embroidered sampler phrase 40 Guns, as a motor 41 Cravat 42 Almost forever 43 Byron's "before" 44 "My gal" of song 45 Branch 46 Commercial suffix with Gator 49 Each 50 Map book 52 County on the Thames 54 Repeatedly 57 Soup eater's sound 59 Kitchen or bath 60 Aroma 61 Hearing-related 

---~---·---~~~~~~-. 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, April 2, 2007 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 
Quarterback, receiver battles headline Irish spring practices 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Associate Sports Editor 
Despite position battles on 

• both sides of the line of scrim­mage, two of the most glorified positions on the field -quarter­back and wide receiver -are still catching most people's attention. The quarterback battle is by far the most closely examined aspect of Notre Dame's spring practices, largely because of its uniq'ue nature. Irish coach Charlie Weis has four competing quarterbacks -rising junior Evan Sharpley, rising sopho­mores Zach Frazer and Demetrius Jones and incoming freshman Jimmy Clausen ­with different styles and abili­ties. each competing to be the lead signal caller for the Irish. 
Weis said although he is will­ing to change depending on the 
On the offensive 
situation, he is generally against using a platoon system at quar­terback -making the competi­tion for the top job even more intense. 
"There's been more than two quarterbacks but usually the competition's only been between two people," Weis said. "This one's a little bit unique because to give them equal opportunity, you have a rotation system built in place where guys are lead guys at certain times, and we're halfway through that process." 
Weis said he will rotate each quarterback through the first, second, third and fourth strings each week throughout the spring. In this way, each quar­terback gets the same opportu­nities to run plays with the starting receivers and backs. Weis said this keeps. him objec­tive since no one has extra time with the starting ofTense. 
"But really when you just take out the subjectivity and just making it objective analysis, it usually cleans itself up," Weis said. "Even in those cases, 
see BATTLES/page 22 


MEN'S lACROSSE 
Notre Dame upends Brown in preparation for Big East 
their second game in a row in defensive end, allowing only right now, and hopefully has a team-leading 26 points
By GREG ARBOGAST 

convincing fashion Saturday eight goals in its last 10 quar­that's a mix that will allow us this season, including 15 
Sports Writer 

by defeating Brown 11-3 in ters. to continue to improve over goals. 
Providence, R.I. "I feel like we're starting to the course of the season." "Will is doing a lot of good Notre Dame is finding its After struggling to find develop some consistency and One young player who things, but the best thing is stride at just the right time. some consistency early this some things to build on," Irish matured rapidly is freshman that we're not having to rely 
With the main part of their season, Notre Dame has coach Kevin Corrigan said. attack Will Yeatman, who net­on Will," Corrigan said. "He's conference schedule fast stepped up its performance "We have young guys playing ted his second consecutive hat approaching, the Irish won recently, especially on the alongside experienced guys trick Saturday. Yeatman now see BROWN/page 22 
BASEBALL 
Panthers sweep ND at Pitt 
Inclement weather cuts series from 3games to 2 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA SportS Writer 
Notre Dame headed to Pittsburgh Friday in hopes of cor­recting some of the problems it faced last weekend, but it failed to do so. 
The Irish dropped both games in what was originally scheduled to be a three-game series ­Sunday's game was canceled due to inclement weather in Pittsburgh. 
Irish sophomore David Phelps dropped only his second game of the season with a 4-2 loss Friday night, and Paul Nardozzi pitched a two-hit shutout for the Panthers in their 5-0 win over the Irish Saturday. 
Pittsburgh 4, Notre Dame 2 
Phelps, a righthander, received little help from the Notre Dame 
see PANTHERS/page22 


BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Team names highlight this year's tournament 
The 36th annual Bookstore Basketball tournament tips off today with 45 first-round contests. No doubt, the Bookstore Committee had its hands full censoring and elimi­nating the humor from the 652 teams par­ticipating in this year's event, but some slight­ly humor­ous team names man-Sports Editor aged to make the final cut. 
Though none rises to the level of last year's "We Shoot Like Dick Cheney, (You Should Wear Orange)," here are some of the best Bookstore names for 2007: 
(Note: Yo~ ~e,~~on,us points . 

for referencing my favorite TV shows or anything relat­ing to Steve Carell) 
+Yeah Poop: Simple, yet effective. 
+That's What She Said (3 teams): Hopefully, nobody has to pull out early. 
+If We Lose, the Terrorists Win: Valid point ... by philos­ophy's standards. 
+Hannah's Storm: For Hannah's sake, let's hope this isn't the extent of her cultural influenee. 
+We're Just Here for the Butt Slapping: You guys from Zahm? 
+Bill Raftery's MANTAMAN Principles: Extra points for referencing my favorite bas-
see NAMES/page 21 
'-!""' . 






