
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint J:Iary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 124 TUESDAY, APRIL 24,2007 
Ties betweenreligion, wealth examined 
Principles of the Interfaith Declaration of International Business Ethics:  
Justice: "Fair dealings between each other and between believers and others is constantly reiterated in the ScrTtures as are God's jus­tice an mere~ in his dealings with mankind. '  Mutual Respect: "[S]elf-interest only has a place in the community in as much as it takes into account the inter­ests of others.... Of paramount importance in this respect is the employee."  
Honesty:"It is an attitude which is well summed up in the word 'integ­rity.' In precepts and parables, Scripture urges truth and hon­esty in all dealings between human beings. It is stressed that dishonesty is an abomination."  Stewardship:"The · Scriptures testify to the beauties and wonders of nature as signs of God's goodness and provtdence. Man 1s set over it all with delegated responsibility a steward charfed w1th its care and proper use or which he will have to give account."  


Flogging Molly to perform 
5UB uses extra funds to bring in big talent 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT 
News Writer 
Due to the financial succf)ss of last semester's Ben Folds concert, the Student Union Board (SUB) will bring Irish rock band Flogging Molly to Legends for a free concert Thursday, SUB manager Patrick Vassel said. 
"There was about $25,000 in revenue for SUB after the Ben Folds concert, and we decided to put on an end of year concert that's as exciting as possible," Vassel said. 
The Ben Folds concert ­which sold out -was held in Stepan Center. SUB decided to host Flogging Molly as a free concert in Legends because the cost of renting Stepan Center would have forced a concert either "with high tick­et prices or free, but with a !less famous] band," Vassel said. 
SUB has not always been able to bring well-known bands like Ben Folds or Flogging Molly to campus. Last year, several SUB-pro­duced concerts did not sell out, and this factored into the decision to forgo the expenses of renting Stepan Center for Flogging Molly, Vassel said. 
"Last year, we had two solid shows in Stepan [Center] ­but neither crowds filled to capacity," Vassel said, "Our goal this year was, however we do [the concerts], to make them as big and exciting as possible." 
see MOLLY/page 3 
By AARON STEINER News Writer 

Business, academic and religious experts have con­vened on campus for a two­day conference to discuss how Muslim, Christian and Jewish views play roles in business values and ethics ­specifically the creation of wealth. 
Sponso-red by the Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business at Mendoza College, the event, titled "Muslim, Christian and Jewish Views on the Creation of Wealth," is 
MATI HUDSON/The Observer described 'as an interfaith 
conference targeted at busi­ness people, academics and 
researchers,  though  all  
events  are  open  to  the  
greater community.  

Conference director Georges Enderle,. a professor of International Business Ethics at Notre Dame and fellow at the Kellogg and Nanovic Institutes, said the event is attracting leaders from around the world ­including the Middle East, Europe and the United States. · 
"World religions play a major role in influencing business behavior and cor­
see WEALTH/ page 4 
Kenan muses on life as comic 
'Saturday Night Live' actor provokes laughs with stories from career 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 
Live from DeBartolo Hall, "Saturday Night Live's" Kenan Thompson delighted students with anecdotes from his years as a child actor and a full­grown comedian Monday night as part of the Student Union Board's "SNL" lecture series. 
''I'm in my fourth year on 'SNL'. Chris Rock only did three," he said -and with that he drew the crowd's laughter in his first minute in the spot­light. 
Taking students on a walk down memory lane, he also drew nostalgic sighs from those who wanted to know if he was still in contact with his for-
see KENAN/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Physicsprof to transfer to Boston 
Barabasi chooses move to pursue nehwrkstudies 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assisram News Ediror 
Albert-Laszlo Barabasi, the Emil T. Hofman professor of physics and the director of the Center for Complex Network Research, will leave 
Notre Dame in the fall to p u r s u e research and teaching opportunities a t Northeastern University 


and the Barabasi Dana Farber Cancer Institute, a teaching affiliate of Harvard Medical School. 
Barabasi's decision to leave Notre Dame followed his experience last year as a vis­iting professor studying bio­logical networks at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute. Over the cours-e of his time in Boston, his investigation into networks led him to the study of human diseases. 
Barabasi stressed that his decision to take a new posi­tion was not because he was unhappy at Notre Dame. 
"To the contrary," he said in an e-mail sent to friends after deciding to leave the University. "I love this University and the whole Notre Dame community, and over the years I became an Irish fan as well." 
He will leave Notre Dame to take up his new position in 
see NETWORKS/page 4 


'Building' founder describes education goals 
By BECKY HOGAN NewsWrirer 
The Millennium Development Goals Awareness Week is in full swing, working to educate the campus community on the United Nations' Millennium Development Goals (MDG). 
To get the week's events started, Building Tomorrow founder George Srour spoke to students Monday about how they can get involved in making universal pri­mary education a reality. 
"One of the things we are focusing our efforts on is increasing the number of kids who have access to primary school [educa­
tion]." Srour said. 

Srour first became involved in the issue when he spearheaded an effort at the College of William and Mary to help build a school in Kampala, Uganda. Building Tomorrow is a non-profit o_rganization that works to get young people . involved in raising aware­ness and funds to build schools for children in Sub­Saharan Africa. 
Building Tomorrow ini­tially targeted college stu­dents, and it now has established chapters at 10 college campuses in the United States. The organi­zation has also partnered with Key -Club 
see SROUR/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, April 24, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Sununer's finest 
The semester is almost over, which means only one thing-summer is com­ing. As a junior, this will be my last three months of complete freedom, at least until retirement. After this summer I will no longer get 
Kelly Higgins 
my yearly three months to recharge and enjoy myself. 
Associate
The "real world" 
Photo Editor 
does not afford 
these luxuries. 
Although I will be working full-time, I plan on taking advantage of my last opportunity to act like a kid. What better way to relive my childhood than with baseball of all kinds? Independent league, millor league, major league-my convenient northwest Indiana location offers it all. The biggest decision I need to make is which team I \\jll root for. 
One choice is the Gary Southshore Railcats. You may have noticed their field from the window of your South Shore train. Set in beautiful downtown Gary, the Railcats really have it all­giveaways every night, the rowdiest MC and the best live pizza race in town. Not to mention their father-son mascot team Rusty and Rascal. I can choose to watch the game from the stands or from the ever glorious party tub behind center field. Each seat is the perfect place to enjoy a hot dog and cheer on the two­time Northern League (that's independ­ent) Champs. 
Option two offers a similar family atmosphere and guaranteed fun, includ­ing a battle royal produce race where an enlarged broccoli challenges an ear of corn on foot. The South Bend Silverhawks may be the best kept secret in this area. A feeder for the Diamondbacks, the Hawks might not have the best record, but they do offer a great time. I've never been to a stadium where heckling the other team was quite as enjoyable. Because the stands are less than filled to capacity, to put it mild­ly, the players can hear every word you say. This is quite effective when yelling things like "ducks on the pond 2-4, knock 'em in" in support or "left, right, left, right" as the other team marches to the bench after striking out. This free­dom of baseball phraseology at its finest, coupled with dollar Mondays and thirsty Thursdays, will surely put the Hawks at the top of my list on many days. 
Of course, the wonderful Chicago White Sox, nestled on the South Side, never disappoint. Where else can you enjoy a sunset over the skyline of Chicago, Icees of all flavors and Tadahito Iguchi all in one place? To a real White Sox fan there is nothing more magical than watching the montage of amazing plays set to the score from Pirates. After the game has started, it is important to check the big screen from time to time so as not to miss the intermittent prom requests, proposals and birthdays in between the hat trick and pizza race. 
I realize I've neglected to comment on the shear greatness of the game itself, because that is a given. It is important for everyone to realize there is more to going to a game than the sport itself, and I encourage everyone to try it out at any level. I know this is a guaranteed great summer of baseball which will have to hold me over until I retire to follow the Sox cross-country. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Kelly Higgins at khiggiO1 @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due ro a reporting error, a story in rhe Irish Insider Monday said Alabama sold more rhan 92,000 seats for its spring game. Attendance was acrually free fur rhe scrimmage. In Monday's article "Team posts 41 rop marks," Jake Walker, not Jake Watson, placed first in rhe 5,000 meters at rhe Central Collegiate Championship. TheObserver regrets these errors. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK OF THE SHIRT? 


Eleanor Huntington  Andrew Forero  Jeff Mikrut  
freshman Cavanaugh  sophomore Zahm  senior Zahm  
"It allowed me to wear really big gold earrings and gold sunglasses. "  'Tm happy we're back to green.  "Looks better than last year's. "  


Carl Neblett  Jess Stechmann  Krystal Hardy  
grad student off-campus  senior off-campus  senior off campus  
"I was hoping for the pee yellow color  "I wear my own costume to the football games."  "What .shirt?"  

again. 

theaters during the movie are among the leading complaints his company's Web s.ite, mypetpeeves.com, has cat­alogued since it began keeping track a couple years ago. Then there are people who don't lis~en when you do talk (a favorite pet peeve of women) or dogs that won't stop talking (in their case it's called barking). 
"We've had over 100,000 from people all over the world," since MyPetPeeves began tracking them, he said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Woman runs length of Long Island 
MELVILLE, N.Y. -It isn't called Long Island for nothing, and one long-dis­tance runner has learned that firsthand. Alicja Barahona ran the whole 120-mile length of the island over the weekend, in an effort to draw atten­tion to a breast cancer charity walk scheduled in June. 
She started around 6 
a.m. Saturday in Montauk, at the eastern end of the island. She finished about 11 a.m. Sunday in North Woodmere Park, on the western end of the island at the New York City bor­der. 
Barahona, who has com­peted in ultradistance run­ning events, did her Long Island run without sleep­ing or stopping, except for bathroom breaks. 
"I feel great," she said afterward. "No blisters, no cramps, no stiffness." 
Man tracks pet peeve statistics 
LOS ANGELES -Jon Williamson sensed that just about everybody out there had a pet peeve. Now he's got some statisti­cal data to prove it. 
People talking too loudly in public, yakking away on cell phones or speaking in 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
IX 
LLI :::1: 
!;;: 
LLI 
3: 
...J 
<
0 


0 
HIGH 65 HIGH 58 HIGH 62
...I 
LOW 55 LOW 43 LOW 43 

65 48 
IN BRIEF 

Notre Dame baseball will play Ball State today at 6:05 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. For tickets, call the Athletic Department tick­et office at 631-7356. 
Notre Dame women's softball will play Northwestern today at 7 p.m. at Ivy FiPld. Admi<>sion is free. 
SUB will show the movie "Jaws" today at 9 p.m. on North Quad. The event is open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students. This is a free event. 
Notre Dame baseball will play Valparaiso Wednesday at 6:05 
p.m. 
at Frank Eck Stadium. For tickets, call631-7356. 

Notre Dame women's softball will play UIC Wednesday at 6:30 

p.m. 
at Ivy Field. Admission is free. 


The Ballroom Dance Club will host the Spring Ball on Wednesday from 8 to 10:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Dancers of all skill levels are invited. The cost is $4 per night or $35 for the semester. The club is open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students with a campus 10, as well as fac­ulty and staff. 
Badin Hall will host their al'lnual Badin Breakdown Thursday from 4 to 7 p.m. on South Quad. 
SUB will hold a free salsa dancing event Friday from 11:30 
a.m. to 1:30 p.m. on Fieldhouse 
Mall. 

To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

57 45 


HIGH LOW 

Atlanta 79 I 57 Boston 74 I 60 Chicago 59 I 43 Oenver 52 I 39 Houston 79 I 70 Los Angeles 77 I 52 Minneapolis 59 I 46 New York 76 I 61 Philadelphia 77 I 58 Phoenix 84 I 56 Seattle 58 I 48 St. Louis 75 I 58 Tampa 84 I 62 Washington 78 I 60 
Tuesday, April 24, 2007 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Saint Mary's Bellacapella group makes debut 
Women's a capella singers take a modern approach to performance with pop music songs and television show themes 
been scheduled since the fall Women's Choir, Spore said. The Spore said. ent than the traditional choirs. 
By MANDl STIRONE semester, Spore said, and much members went through an They chose to sing modern, Director of Choral Activities 
News Writer 
of the planning has gone into audition process, Spore said, popular music because a cap­Dr. Nancy Menk gives the group 
raising funds because the group and since the auditions were pella groups do not normally her support and advice. 
Bellacapella, an a capella started out with no money. The held, the four hours a week of perform it, Spore said. "I think it's wonderful," she singing group made up of group had to get some gigs practice have created friend­"Plus, it's fun to sing," Anhut said. women from Saint Mary's before they could print out ships between the girls in the added. She said she has always College, will make their debut posters and do advertising for group. Junior Megan Welsch, a mem­wanted a group like concert performance on cam­the performance, she said. Unlike the traditional choirs ber of Bellacapella, agreed, Bellacapella, but that she want­pus tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Little At their performance tonight, at Saint Mary's, Bellacappella saying that she joined the group ed the students to decide to do Theater in the Moreau Center the Undertones will open for sings what Anhut described as because she likes to sing popu­it, rather than her making them for the Arts. Bellacappella, just as popular music. The group will lar music. The group hopes to do it. 
Co-directors Bridget Spore, a Bellacappella has opened for cover songs from the Beatles, draw an audience of its peers Tickets are $3 and will be Saint Mary's junior, and senior the Undertones in the past, The Supremes and Jewel. They. from Saint Mary's, Notre Dame sold an hour before the show as Erin Anhut got the idea to start Anhut said. also plan to perform a televi­and Holy Cross, Anhut said. well as during lunch in the a singing group last year after The independent, student-run sion show medley that will Bellacappella member Sarah Saint Mary's Student Center. attending a performance by group is composed of 15 include theme songs from Suit, a senior, said the group is Notre Dame's Undertones. women, all of whom are mem­"Friends," "Family Guy" and good for Saint Mary's because it Contact Mandi Strione at 
The concert performance has bers of the Saint Mary's the "Fresh Prince of Bel-Air," shows off a kind of talent differ-astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Molly 
continued from page 1 
Flogging Molly has been in contact with SUB "for a few years" regarding a show at Notre Dame, Vassel said. SUB was unable to synch budgets and schedules with the band until now. 
Financially, SUB decided to "zero out" its accounts by put­ting on a show with no ticket sales, Vassel said, in part because of student govern­ment's newly formed endow­ment and the carry-forward account. 
Extra money left in the SUB budget is placed in either the carry-forward account for use during the next year or ­after that account reaches $100,000-in the student government endowment. 
"In the next couple years, the interest from the endow­ment should add about $20­30,000 a year," Vassel said. "That will support student organizations ·on campus. Once that endowment gets over a million dollars, it will significantly start returning money that will help the Student Union." 
With the expanded budget, 
Vassel forecasted more pro­gramming options for student government, especially in terms of "major program­ming", such as concerts with big-name performers. 
"When you have a consistent source of funding from an endowment like that -that'll be a difference maker," Vassel said. "[Student government] can use this endowment to ensure that financial concerns won't be a liability." 
Vassel is part of a team pre­senting information about the endowment to the University Board of Trustees later this semester. The report will con­tain details of the present and 
future plans for the endow­ment. 
"This is interesting because five years ago, the student body president basically asked the Board for a million dollars for an endowment but was told it wasn't feasible," Vassel said. "But now we can go to the Board and say, 'We found the money on our own'." 
For the Flogging Molly con­cert Thursday, Legends has attempted to expand the amount of people that cail watch the concert in the 680­person venue by simulcasting the show on large-screen TVs in the field behind Legends, so a total of 1 ,200 people will be able to watch the concert, Legends general manager Rich Jacobs said. 
Jacobs advised students to arrive early for the concert, but said the club will not per­mit students to start standing in line while classes are in session. 
Attendance at the Flogging Molly concert is limited to stu­dents with a Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross College ID, and students are allowed two guests each, Jacobs said. The concert starts at 10 p.m. 
Contact John-Paul Witt at 
jwittl@nd.edu 
Tuesday, April24, 2007 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
three Abrahamic faith tradi­London revealed that only tion was initially created, a and a later addition of guide­tions share. one-third of the public trusts time when the "phenomenon lines against bribery and
Wealth 
''I'm hoping that we're real­business. of international business, extortion. izing that we do have a lot in Trustworthiness in business­globalization" was young, he Webley said that while there
continued from page 1 
common -although we are es is necessary, Webley said, said. is a growth in the use of ethi­
not aware of it," he said. as many conclude that a busi­In the more than dozen cal codes in business world­porate behavior," Enderle The conference, being held ness is not successful without years since the declaration, wide, there is still little said. He said the conference in the Mendoza College of trust. Many multinational cor­talks of ethics and values in emphasis on faith, something will examine "business in an Business and also in the porations now business have the declaration sought to take international, global context Hesburgh Center, began include the become increas­into consideration. and what role religions play in Monday with speakers who idea of trust in ingly prevalent, "There are very few if any
"The United Nations, 
business," specifically the idea gave perspectives on the 12-preambles to going far beyond examples of [these values and of wealth creation. year-old declaration and agreements for the first time in its dealing the orig­ethics codes] being related to The conference revolves thoughts on the idea of wealth and ethics history, it entered into inal goal of unit­faith," Webley said before around the Interfaith creation. codes, along ing different cul­adding an exception.
agreements not with
Declaration of International with state­tural and reli­"However, in many Muslim Business Ethics, an agreement Opening perspective: ments that say countries but with gious groups. countries, relationship between members of the three Reviewing the declaration they will strive corporations. " Webley cited between these values and faiths to promote common Simon Webley, research for integrity, the United business is more explicit." business values. The four director of Notre Dame's responsibility Nations' deci­Speakers this morning are
Simon Webley 
principles of the declaration Institute of Business Ethics in and trust. sion to create scheduled to address the are justice, mutual respect, London, said Monday if he "These val-research director ethical princi­Muslim, Jewish and Christian stewardship and honesty. The could add one thing to the list ues are Notre Dame Institute of ples for busi­views of ethics in business, declaration was formulated by of principles included in the becoming the Business Ethics in London nesses as an specifically related to wealth leaders in both the Judea­Interfaith Declaration of norm and example of that. creation, and presenters in Christian and Muslim worlds International Business Ethics, form the basis "The United the afternoon will address from 1984-93. he would add trust. for many corporate [ethics Nations, for the first time in ethical challenges for business 
Enderle said Notre Dame is Trust, Webley said, is an codes]," Webley said, adding its history, it entered into leaders, economics and con­a good place to "search for extremely prevalent issue the principle of trust to the agreements not with countries flicting values, and changing common ground" during such given corporate scandals and declaration would round out but with corporations," corporate responsibilities. a conference. He thinks par­general mistrust among the the changes of business ethics. Webley said, noting the cre­ticipants will gain a greater public in recent years. Webley also spoke about the ation of standards for labor Contact Aaron Steiner at awareness of the values all Webley said a recent poll in context in which the declara-and environmental protection asteiner@nd.edu 
:.J<espighi & qJeeflwven 
Sunday, April 29, 2:30 p.m. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center University of Notre Dame 
Featuring Jacqueline Schmidt, piano Respighi: '11u rBirrls Paul Johnson: '11w ''WilJ S"'ans a1 Coole Beethoven. ~Piano Concerto ':No. 5 TICKETS: 574-631-2800 
'CoraJ.ze Piano Jnstitute 
Saturday, May 12, 8:00 p.m. Morris Performing Arts Center 

Featuring Alexander Toradze and three 
generations of Piano Studio performers Gershwin: :J £jet ':Rhythm, CJ<J,apsoJ!I in 'B!tu' Copland: 'Yiutw Conce.rlo Rachmaninoff: ':Rhapsody on a '11.eme of 'Jhganini Bernstein: C::>Hasque from Jfyc of .Yin.<iely Ravel: 'Yiu1w Concerto 
Spring :Jamily Concert 
Sunday, May 20, 3:00 p.m. E:verest-Rohrer Auditorium, Bethel College 
"A Celebration of Youth in Music" featuring the Side-by-Side Orchestra and 
· 

byYoung Artist Competition winners. Talented high school musicians from ~.,fl BOSCH . lf!vtmt<!dfcrlife:Northern Indiana and Southwest Michigan play alongside our own veteran Tickets $10 Adults Symphony musicians in what has $8 Seniors 65+ become one of our favorite concerts. and $5 for Kids  
For tickets call574-235-9190 or visit us online at SouthBendSymphony.com  


Farber Cancer Institute. bridges between the sand Barabasi arrived at Notre grains -graced the cover of Dame as an assistant profes­the June 1997 issue of the 
sor  in  1995.  science  
He  originally  journal  
intended  to  "He's one of the most  Nature.  
pursue research on  prominent researchers in  T h e s e findings,  
materials sci­ the University. It's a huge  the article  
ence  but soon  loss. He's one ofthe most  said, could  
turned his focus to the investigation  publicized, well-cited scientists probably in the  be used by industries that store  
of  complex  whole world right now."  materials in  
networks.  In  piles,  as  
the relatively new field of  Mitchell R. Wayne  well as by pill manu­ 
networks  chair  facturers,  
research,  physics department  who  need  
Barabasi has  to  under- 
been a  centniJ  stand  how  
figure in both  chemical  

initiating exploration in the grains adhere to each other. field and making progress in The portable document for­the study of interconnectivity. mat (PDF) version of 
An article in a 1998 issue of Barabasi's curriculum vitae Notre ·Dame Magazine fills 25 pages and includes described many pub­Barabasi's lished articles published and other hon­
""In a certain sense, it
research find­ors. ings on the reflects well on Notre As the direc­amount of Dame that one ofour tor of the water it takes Center for
faculty members is so
to make the Complex
well-recognized around 
sand in a Network sandcastle the world." Research stick together. (CCNR), In collabora­Barabasi and
Mitchell R. Wayne
tion with his team of other physi­chair researchers cists at. the physics department study intercon­University, nectivity. Barabasi's According to discovery -the CCNR's that only a small amount of Web site, its research ranges liquid is necessary to yield from studying the topology of the salt residues that create the Internet to investigating 
Storage College Partners 
We Pick Up! We Store! We Deliver! www.storagecollege.com E-Mail us at ndinfo@storagecollege.com 
Simplified Summer Storage! 
the cellular network inside cells to studying the connec­tions between Hollywood actors. 
Barabasi was out of town and could not be reached for comment, but he forwarded to The Observer the e-mail he sent to his friends when he decided to leave the University. 
He said he felt he needed to make the move to advance forward with his scholarship, since his interests have evolved toward medical research. 

"At the end it was not a vote for or against the University, nor a question of resources -it was a decision based on location, and access to the collaboration possibili­ties that are necessary to take my research program to a new level, which," Barabasi said, "with the exponential growth of the field that we initiated now requires close interactions with experimen­tal groups, h.eavily based in medical schools." 
Wayne said the physics department is "disappointed" to see Barabasi go but said the faculty wishes him good luck. 
"In a certain sense, it reflects well on Notre Dame that one of our faculty mem­bers is so well-recognized around the world," he said. 
Barab asi majored in physics and engineering at the University of Bucharest in Romania. He received his master's degree in physics from Eotvos Lorand University in Budapest and his Ph.D. from Boston University. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


Sa't"urday MayS 
n,oo -5,oo 


Networks 
continued from page 1 
September. 
Professor Mitchell R. Wayne, the chair of Notre Dame's physics department, called Barabasi's departure a "big loss to the physics department and the University." 
"He's one of the most prominent researchers in the 
University," Wayne said. "It's a huge loss. He's one of the most publicized, well-cited scientists probably in the whole world right now." 
Wayne called Barabasi a "creative scientist" and said he was popular with his stu­dents. 
At Northeastern University, Barabasi will take a position in the Department of Physics, Computer Science and Biology. He will also work in the Center for Cancer Systems Biology at Dana 





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, April 24, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SFRVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Nigerian election votes denounced 
ABUJA, Nigeria -A former chemistry pro­fessor and provincial governor hand-picked by President Olusegun Obasanjo won the presi­dential election in a landslide Monday, in a vote ·denounced as deeply flawed by interna­tional observers and the opposition. 
Umaru Yar'Adua must now fight for credibili­ty in Nigeria, where some 15,000 people have died since strict military rule ended in 1999. Gen. Muhammadu Buhari, the 1980s-era mili­tary leader who was the runner-up in Saturday's vote, called the outcome "the most blatantly rigged election results ever produced in Nigeria." 
During Saturday's presidential and parlia­mentary votes and a week earlier during elec­tions for state governors and legislatures, elec­toral oflicials could be seen inking ballots and shoving them into boxes. Thugs intimidated voters. The presidential ballots bore no serial numbers, making them easy to mishandle and impossible to track. 
Israel marks Memorial Day 
.JERUSALEM -Prime Minister Ehud Olmert marked Israel's Memorial Day for fallen soldiers Monday with a new call for peace with the Palestinians, saying his coun­try was prepared to make "far-reaching compromises" and "very painful conces­sions." 
But he also said Israel would hit militants "until they are destroyed," following a week­end of fighting that left nine Palestinians dead. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Border patrol agent charged 
PHOENIX -A Border Patrol agent was charged Monday with first-degree murder in the shooting of an unarmed illegal immigrant at the border in January. 
An investigation found that Agent Nicholas Corbett's killing of Francisco Dominguez-Rivera, of Puebla, Mexico, was not legally justified, said Cochise County prosecutor Ed Rheinheimer. 
Corbett is also charged with second-degree murder, manslaughter and negligent homicide. A judge will determine which of the charges the evidence supports best, Rheinheimer said. 
"We have concluded that the evidence shows that at the time he was shot, Mr. Dominguez­Rivera presented no threat to agent Corbett," Rheinheimer said. His attorney, Daniel Santander, didn't immedi­ately return a message left Monday afternoon by The Associated Press. The Border Patrol said it would make a statement Tuesday. 
U.S. against European gas deal 
WASHINGTON -Irritated by the prospect of a huge European gas develop­ment deal with Iran, the Bush administra­tion said Monday it will argue that such transactions undercut international bar­gaining power over Iran's nuclear pro­gram. 
Also Monday, the State Department said it has again asked Iran for information about a missing former FBI agent. The United States says it has no information to substantiate reports that Iran may be detaining the man, but spokesmen do not rule out that possibility. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Payne's murder charges dropped 
SOUTH BEND -A woman whose mur­der conviction was overturned was released from prison Monday after plead­ing guilty to her role in a burglary that led to the deaths of three northern Indiana construction workers. 
St. Joseph Superior Judge William Means approved the agreement in which Charity Payne pleaded guilty to felony burglary. In exchange, prosecutors agreed to drop murder charges in the September 2000 slayings of Corby Myers, 30; Lynn Ganger, 54; and Wayne Shumaker, 58, at a Lakeville home. 
The court sentenced her to time already served. 
RUSSIA 


Democratizing force Yeltsin dies at 76 
Kremlin says funeral to be held Wednesday, burial at Novodevichy Cemetery 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW -Former President Boris Yeltsin, who hastened the collapse of the Soviet Union by scrambling atop a tank to rally opposi­tion against a hard-line coup and later pushed Russia to embrace democ­racy and a market econo­my, died Monday at age 76. 
The first freely elected leader of Russia, Yeltsin was initially admired abroad for his defiance of the monolithic Communist system. But many Russians will remember him mostly for presiding over the steep decline of their nation. 
Mikhail Gorbachev, the last Soviet president, summed up Yeltsin's com­plex legacy Monday by referring to him as one "on whose shoulders are both great deeds for ~e country and serious errors." 
Defense Secretary Robert Gates called Yeltsin "an important figure in Russian history." 
"No Americans, at least, will forget seeing him standing on the tank out­side the White House (the Russian parliament build­ing) resisting the coup attempt," Gates said while visiting Moscow. 
The Kremlin said the larity in the Communist era Yeltsin's greatest mundane tasks of govern­funeral would be on pledges to fight corrup­moments came in bursts. ment and he blamed subor­Wednesday, a day of tion, but he proved unable After Communist hard­dinates for Russia's many national mourning, and or unwilling to prevent the liners tried to overthrow problems. He damaged his that Yeltsin would be looting of state industry as Gorbachev and roll back democratic credentials by buried at Moscow's it moved into private hands democratic reforms in 1991 using force to solve political Novodevichy Cemetery, during his nine years in by sending armor into the disputes, although he said where many of Russia's power. streets, Yeltsin climbed it was necessary to hold the most prominent figures are Yeltsin steadfastly atop a tank to rally resist­country together. interred. defended freedom of the ance. He spearheaded the Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin 
"Thanks to Boris Yeltsin's press, but was a master at peaceful end of the Soviet was born Feb. 1, 1931, into will and direct initiative, a manipulating the media. state by the end of the year. a peasant family in the Ural new constitution was Putin has proven far more Ill with heart problems Mountains' Sverdlovsk adopted which proclaimed popular even as he has and facing possible defeat region. When he was 3, his human rights as the tightened Kremlin control. by a Communist challenger father was imprisoned in supreme value," said His career was punctuat­in 1996, Yeltsin marshaled dictator Josef Stalin's President Vladimir Putin, ed by bizarre behavior that his energy to win re-elec­purges but later released. who was Yeltsin's hand­the public chalked up to tion. The challenge trans­A mischievous child, picked successor. He said alcohol. Red-faced pranks, formed the shaky convales­Yeltsin lost his thumb and his former mentor "gave missed appointments, and cent into the spry, dancing index finger while playing people a chance to freely inarticulate and contradic­candidate. with a grenade. He was express their thoughts, tory public comments were But Yeltsin was an incon­expelled from elementary freely elect authorities." blamed by aides on jet lag, sistent reformer who never school for criticizing a 
Yeltsin rocketed to popu-medication or illness. took much interest in the teacher at an assembly. 


Democrats agree on Iraq legislation 
sustain his veto, was unambiguous in legislation. Republicans voiced opposi­
Associated Press 

his response. "I will strongly reject an tion, but made no attempt to delay or 
artificial timetable (for) withdrawal even seek changes. "We all know this 
WASHINGTON -A historic veto and/or Washington politicians trying bill is going nowhere fast," said Rep. showdown assured, Democratic lead­to tell those who wear the uniform Jerry Lewis, R-Calif., referring to the ers agreed Monday on legislation that how to do their job," he told reporters veto threat. requires the first U.S. combat troops in the Oval Office as he met with his "Congress is preparing to deliver a to be withdrawn from Iraq by Oct. 1 top Iraq commander, Gen. David message of surrender just as General with a goal of a complete pullout six Petraeus. Petraeus arrives in Washington this months later. Taken together, the day's events week to brief the commander in chief 
"No more will Congress turn a blind marked the quickening of a confronta­and members of Congress on the eye to the Bush administration's tion that has been building since war," he added. incompetence and dishonesty," Senate Democrats took control of Congress in The bill includes more than $90 bil­Majority Leader Harry Reid said in a January and promised to change poli­lion for the wars in Iraq and speech in which he accused the presi­cy in a war has claimed the lives of Afghanistan, the withdrawal timetable dent of living in a state of denial about more than 3,200 U.S. troops. that Bush finds objectionable and bil­events in Iraq more than four years Congressional negotiators for the lions of dollars in domestic spending after the U.S.-led invasion. House and Senate met in late after­that he also has threatened to veto. 
Bush, confident of enough votes to noon and ratified the details of the Overall, the bill totals $124.2 billion. 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, April 24, 2007 
Kenan 
continued from page 1 

mer "Kenan and Kel" co-star, Kel Mitchell. 
"I only get to see [Mitchell] every now and then, and he's well, but I don't know about Good Burger 2," Thompson said, referring to the movie the pair produced while their hit Nickelodeon show aired in the late 1990s. 
After graduating from Nickelodeon comedy, Thompson said he went on to star in a number of film proj­ects, including "Fat Albert" and "Barbershop 2" before landing a recurring role in NBC's variety show. 
Born in 1978, he became the first "SNL" cast member born after the series began in 1975, according to the show's Web site. 
While his experience in Nickelodeon's sketch series, "All That," and his work alongside comedian Ben Stiller in "Heavyweights" prepared Thompson to join "SNL", he said he was still nervous about auditioning and giving suggestions to his experienced co-stars during his first season on the show. 
"I don't consider myself an expert in comedy or any­thing, but you just have to feel comfortable pitching your ideas," he said. "Sometimes they work, and sometimes they don't." 
Thompson admitted he had never written a full comedy sketch until he joined "SNL" in 2003, but he said he was proud of the progress he has made as an actor and a writer from his time on the show. 

Pulitzer winner Halberstam dies 
Fonner New York Times writer killed in car crash en route to interoiew 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO -David Halberstam, a Pulitzer Prize­winning writer who chroni­cled the Vietnam War genera­tion, civil rights and the world of sports, was killed in a car crash Monday, his wife and local authorities said. He was 73. 
Halberstam, of New York, was a passenger in a car that was broadsided by another vehicle in Menlo Park, south of San Francisco, San Mateo County Coroner Robert Foucrault said. The cause of death appeared to be internal injuries. he said. 
The accident occurred around 10:30 a.m., and Halberstam was declared dead at the scene, Menlo Park Fire Chief Harold Schapelhouman said. 
The driver of the car carry­ing Halberstam and the per­son driving the car that crashed into his were injured, but not seriously. 
Halberstam was being driv­en by a graduate journalism student from the University of California, Berkeley, which had hosted a speech by the author Saturday night about journalism and what it means to turn reporting into a work of history. They were headed to an interview he had sched­uled with Hall of Fame quar­terback Y.A. Tittle. 
Halberstam was working on a book, 'The Game,' about the 1958 NFL championship between the Baltimore Colts 
He walked students around" because he recog­through his first appearance nized their contributions to on the SNL stage -a Bill the show and their value as Cosby impersonation -when human beings -and getting his palms were sweating and their nods during the tapings his heart was racing, and he help him curb his jitters prayed he didn't forget his onstage. lines. Those jitters, however, are 
"And then you say your not caused by any pressure first words, and they get a to be the black comedian in 
laugh, and it's  the  cast  and  
the most won- bring  the  
derful feeling,"  expected hip- 
Thompson said.  "I don ,t consider  hop humor to  
"As a comedi­an, as someone who enjoys  myselfan expert in comedy or anything,  the show, Thompson said.  
making people  but you just have to  "Whatever  
laugh, that is the most grati­fication I could  feel comfortable pitching your ideas. ,,  you consider yourself to be, is what actual­ 
ever get."  ly pigeonholes  
Since  that  Kenan Thompson  you," he said.  
day,  he  has  cast member  "I've  found  
played  Star  "Saturday Night Live"  that  I  am  

Jones, Patti LaBelle, Don King, Rev. AI Sharpton and Colin Powell, among other celebrities and fictional characters. 
And despite his established presence in the show and having shared the stage with actors like Tom Hanks, Samuel L. Jackson and Steve Martin, Thompson said humility and good manners go a long way in any setting -a lesson his mother taught him and reminded him of constantly. 
"There are other people out there who could be doing what I'm doing and maybe two times better, but none of that really matters if you're a prick," he said. "That atti­tude won't get you any­where." 
The comedian said he has befriended SNL's camera crew and "the guy you'd think is only pulling cables 
and the New York Giants, often called the greatest game ever played, said his wife, Jean Halberstam. 
She said she would remem­ber him most for his "unend­ing, bottomless generosity to young journalists." 
"For someone who obvious­ly was so competitive with himself, the generosity with other writers was incredible," she said. 
In an interview earlier this month with The Associated Press, Halberstam recalled the zeal with which he and his colleagues covered Vietnam. 
"Maybe we were 28, 29, 26 and we had a great story, which we knew and we had a lock on the truth because we had such great sources. When for a variety of reasons -a flawed, deeply flawed policy -the government starts lying, that is when independent journalism really matters," he said. 
Such reporting, he said, is a key component of democracy. 
"The idea that somewhere before it is a big story that there is some young person ... putting themselves on the line morally, ethically, journalisti­cally, that is a great thing," Halberstam said. "I mean, that is what a free society is about." 
As word of Halberstam's death spread, tributes and remembrances poured in for the veteran reporter whose baritone matched the heft of his nonfiction narratives. 
capable of 
making 68­

year-old white dudes laugh, and if I can do that, I think I can do any­thing." 
He immortalized knuckle pucks in "Mighty Ducks 2" and amused children in the 1990s as Pierre Escargot in "All That." And in the future, Thompson said he hopes to further solidify his career in Hollywood. 
"I like Eddie Murphy's life. That's a good life," he said. "He's been around for many years, and in that time he's made so many movies we will never forget. That's what every actor wants to accom­plish. Maybe somewhere down the line I could do something like that. Maybe I could be in Doctor Doolittle 1 7 some day." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
"He was a dear friend," said author Gay Talese, who was at the Halberstams' home Monday night and was best man at his wedding. 
Halberstam was born April 10, 1934, in New York City to a surgeon father and teacher mother. His father was in the military, and Halberstam moved around the country during his childhood, spend­ing time in Texas, Minnesota and Connecticut. 
He attended Harvard University, where he was managing editor of the Harvard Crimson newspaper. 
He launched his career in 1955 at the Daily Times Leader in West Point, Miss. He spent only a year there because the editor at the time thought Halberstam was too liberal. said Bill Minor, the Jackson, Miss., bureau chief for The Times-Picayune of New Orleans. 
Minor remained friends for decades with Halberstam. who he said was not afraid to wear his social conscience on his sleeve. 
Halberstam went on to The Tennessean, in Nashville, where he covered the civil rights struggle, and then The New York Times, which sent him to Vietnam in 1962 to cover the growing crisis there. 
In 1964, when Halberstam was 30, he and Malcolm W. Browne, of the AP, won Pulitzers for their coverage of the war and the overthrow of the Saigon regime. 
like yourselves," Srour said. "If you got everyone on this
Srour 

campus to pay three dollars, continued from page 1 
you could build a school." 

Boston University and the International, a high school University of Virginia are service organization. among the schools involved 
Building Tomorrow has in Building Tomorrow's goal focused its energies in to build three schools this Uganda since it started in year. Freshman Jenna Knapp 2005. And while the organi­said he is working to estab­zation has made strides to lish a Building Tomorrow raise funds for building chapter at Notre Dame, schools, Srour said that the which should begin next fall. work is not easy because it is Srour said what makes this "much harder for develop­model for establishing educa­
ment groups and  tion unique  
organizations  to  is  that  it  
work  with  rural  "We go to a  works with  
populations." To determine the status of primary  community and say, 'We will work with  local gov­ernments and is sus­ 
education in vari­ you to put up a new  tainable  
ous regions of Uganda, Srour said, Building Tomorrow looks at  school ifyou will help us with 25 percent of cost.,,,  over time. w i t h about 50 percent of  
three indicators  - its  inhabi­ 
net enrollment of students, propor­tion of students in  George Srour founder  tants under the age of 1 8 .  
first grade to stu­ Building Tomorrow  "Uganda is  

dents who reach fifth grade and the literacy rate of 15-24 year olds. 
Srour said $80 will pay a primary school teacher in Uganda for one month, but the problem isn't finding teachers -it's finding ade­quate faeulties where teach­ers can instruct their stu­dents. 
"There is enough money fin Uganda! to pay for primary school teachers ... but not enough money to provide infrastructure," he said. 
In order to make primary education possible in rural areas in Uganda, Building Tomorrow establishes ties with local governments. 
"We go to a community and say, 'We will work with you to put up a new school if you will help us with 25 percent of cost,"' Srour explained. 
Srour said Building Tomorrow enlists the aid of members of the community to help sew uniforms for stu­dents and to help manage the school once it is up and run­ning. 
To build a school in Uganda, which holds 300 to 350 students, costs approxi­mately $35,000-and this is where young people come in. 
"All of our funding to build schools comes from people 
Guest performer 
Tim Richard 

a very 
young coun­try," Srour said. He explained that these age demographics put great strains on the edu­cational system in Uganda because there are so many young people who do not have access to edueation. 
Another factor affeeting Uganda's inadequate educa­tion system is the HIV/AIDS epidemic, which runs ram­pant through the African con­tinent. 
Srour said 63 percent of HIV/AIDS cases worldwide occur in Sub-Saharan Africa. What is worse is that many of Uganda's young have been forced to grow up quickly because their parents have died from the virus, he said. 
The organization has also teamed up with other non­governmental organizations, including the World Food Program, to provide desks, 
books, and  furniture  in  
schools.  
Srour  said  Building  

·Together hopes to start work­ing on providing secondary education in Uganda in the next few years, as well as expanding their efforts throughout Sub-Saharan Africa. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 

of New York Dance Conneciion Guest Choreographer 
lisa Frank 
Atiistic Direction 
lndi Dieckgrafe 

-fit­

$, 8-Sentor Ctttzen ~ :-:
SAINT 
$7-SMC/ND Staff i ~
MARY'S 
$6-Student !ii ;::

COLLEGE Ci • . • . lV NOTRE DAME, IN 
MoreauCenter.com ilt956 ·2oo& ~ 
For tickets, visit the Box Office or call (574) 284-4626. 
Saint Mary's College 
at 2:30P.M. O'laughlin Auditorium 
Tickets: s.~
$9-Adult g ~ 
-. . . u z 

THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Tuesday, April 24, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP Stocks 
Dow 
12,919.40 -42.58
jones 
up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,507 127 727 3,367,728,358 


COMPANY· %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MEDIMMUNE INC (MEDI) 
+17.83 +8.56 56.57 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) 
+0.15 +0.07 45.47 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) 
-0.38 -0.56 148.06 SIRIUS SATELLITE (SIRI) 
-6.04 -0.18 2.80 
APPLIED MICRO (AMCC) -22.66 -0.80 2.73 
Treasuries 
I0-YEAR NOTE -0.55 -0.022 4.650 13-WEEK BILL +0.1 0 +0.005 4.840 30-YEAR BOND -0.35 -0.017 4.828 5-YEARNOTE -0.55 -0.025 4.544 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +1.78  65.89  
GOLD ($!Troy oz.)  -1.60  694.20  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -1.85  103.15  
Excha  Rates .  
YEN  118.6300  
EURO  0.7365  
POUND  0.4998  
CANADIAN$  1.1222  

IN BRIEF 
Audit: federal workers abuse system 
WASHINGTON -Federal employees are going online to sell the mass transit fare cards the government buys them, congressional audi­tors say. 
Employees are also exaggerating their com­muting costs, and some continue to receive transportation subsidies after leaving the gov­ernment. 
Abuses in the mass transit benefits program for government workers are wasting tens of mil­lions of dollars each year, says Congress' Government Accountability Office 
Using seven agencies' mass transit records, investigators found at least $17 million in fraud­ulent transit benefits clain1ed in the Washington metropolitan area during 2006. That amount "could be millions more" if fraud exists in the dozens of agencies the GAO did not review, auditors say in testimony prepared for a Senate hearing Tuesday. 
In three days of online searches, the GAO found at least 20 federal employees who were fraudulently selling their fare cards on eBay. Posing as buyers, investigators purchased bene­fits from three employees on Craigslist. In other cases, employees claimed benefits while on leave, gave the cards to friends and family or used them for personal travel. 
Democrats ask for lending rules 
WASHINGTON -Democrats on the Senate Banking Committee asked Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bemanke on Monday to write new rules against predatory lending in the market for high-risk mortgages, which has been in distress in recent months. 
Bemanke told Congress last month that the cen­tral bank would "look very carefully" at its authority to define unfair and abusive lending practices under a 1994 law that the Democrats. led by committee Chairman Sen. Christopher Dodd of Connecticut. invoked in their letter to 
him. 
He also said it was important to proceed care­fully and write any new rules precisely to avoid "killing the market" and choking off an important avenue for less wealthy people to become home­owners. 

Barclays PLC to stage takeover 
Company to acquire ABN Amro NVfor $91.16 billion, create global banking giant 
Associated Press 
AMSTERDAM -Barclays PLC said Monday it will acquire ABN Amro NV for 67 billion euros ($91.16 bil­lion) in the largest takeover in the fmancial services sec­tor, aiming to create a glob­al banking giant and pre­empt a rival bid to break up the Netherlands' largest bank. 
As part of the deal, ABN announced it is selling its 
U.S. unit LaSalle Bank to Bank of America Corp. for $21 billion in cash. 
The proposed chief execu­tive of the new group, Barclays CEO John Varley, called the deal "the largest merger ever in global finan­cial industry," and said it holds out the promise of growth at a rate twice as fast as global gross domestic product. 
Despite the agreement, ABN said it would welcome a meeting with representa-. tives from Royal Bank of Scotland PLC, Spain's Banco Santander Central Hispano SA and Belgian-Dutch bank Fortis NV, which invited 

· ABN to enter talks earlier this month. But the consortium called off the meeting at the last minute, and said it wanted to hear from ABN Amro by the end of the day under what conditions it would "ABN Amro considers When completed, "The proposed merger of consider scuttling the itself to have four home Barclay's acquisition of ABN ABN Amro and Barclays will planned sale of LaSalle. markets: Holland, the U.S., Amro would create one of create a strong and compet­
The consortium intended Italy and Brazil. Barclay's the top five global banks by itive combination for its to split up ABN and sell off offer spinning off LaSalle to market capitalization. clients with superior prod­parts of its operations to Bank of America makes Under the deal announced ucts and extensive distribu­each, but the breakup held some sense," said Bart Monday, Barclays offered tion," the banks said in a less interest with the divesti­Narter, a senior analyst 36.25 euros ($49.25) for statement. "The merged ture of ABN Amro's large Celent, a U.S.-based inter­each ABN share, slightly group is expected to gener­
U.S. operations. national financial research below Friday's closing price. ate significant and sustained 
"They still have time to and consulting firm. The Varley said the deal was future incremental earnings come with an alternative consortium may see itself worth 6 7 billion euros growth for shareholders." proposal," said Ton Geitman better positioned to handle ($91.16 billion), a 33 per­For each share, ABN of Petercam Financial the non-U.S. markets, he cent premium from ABN's Amro shareholders will be Intelligence in Amsterdam. said. share price when talks offered 3.225 ordinary But unless they could block "The Dutch government began last month shares in the new group, to the sale of LaSalle, the three may prefer to see the ABN Amro shares rose 1 be called Barclays PLC. The consortium partners would remainder of the bank percent to 36.66 euros companies said the deal have to renegotiate among intact and run from ($49.88). Barclays shares would create a single bank themselves how to split up Holland, which could tip the fell 2 percent to 735 pence with 4 7 million customers the Dutch bank, he said. scales," Narter said. ($14.70). worldwide. 


Newspapers plan to reduce staffs 
Associated Press our newspapers reflect fundamental U.S. newspaper circulation has been 
changes going on across the media headed steadily downward since 1987 

CI-IICAGO -The Chicago Tribune industry," Tribune Co. spokesman Gary but the drop-off has accelerated in and the Los Angeles Times disclosed Weitman said. "We cannot stand still; recent years as readers and advertis­plans Monday to reduce their staffs by as revenues have slowed, our newspa­ers defect to the Internet and other as many as a combined 250 jobs, the pers are scaling expenses accordingly." media such as cable TV. For the six­latest cutbacks in a newspaper indus­Tribune said it will redeploy its month period ending last September, try reeling from a falloff in advertising resources to areas that can best gener­average paid circulation fell 8 percent and circulation. ate growth, as it is now doing with at the Times and 1.7 percent at the 
The actions by Tribune Co.'s two Internet-focused ventures. Tribune. largest dailies, which had been expect­The Times said up to 70 jobs could Times Publisher David Hillier, who ed for months, come on top of earlier be cut from the newspaper's news took over last October when Jeffrey cutbacks by both papers. operations, which would reduce the Johnson resigned after protesting 
The Times said it hoped to cut its newsroom staff to about 850 people. Tribune's proposed cuts, said the staff of 2,625 by up to 150 employees, The Times news operation employed newspaper must continue to change its or nearly 6 percent. The Chicago about 1,200 at the time of its purchase business model in the face of industry­Tribune said it intends to trim its staff by Tribune in 2000. wide challenges. by as many as 100, or 3 percent. Chicago Tribune spokeswoman "It is also crucial we reduce 
The cuts are to be achieved by a mix Christine Hennessey declined to say resources, including some of our peo­of closing vacant positions, attrition, how many news positions could be ple, in areas of our core print business buyouts and layoffs affected or give the current number of where revenue is declining," Hillier 
"The actions being undertaken at newsroom jobs. said in a statement. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, April 24, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Tlu lndepnuinJt. Daily Newspaper Seruing Notre !Him~ and Saint Mary~ 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey · Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAlNT MARY's EDITOR: Katie Kohler PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOlj.: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
. FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574} 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter THE 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe 
University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisementS based on content. 
The news is reported as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contaCt information. 
Questions rrgarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

1'lR: ~r'o'a (USPS 599 2-4000} is publiihcd Monday through. Friday~ during exam and ~acuiun periods. A subocri.pt:ion ro ilKObsco-er U $100 &ir o~ llCidcmic year, $55 for {)ne semett.cr. 
'11>< ~lapubli>bt<la<o 024 Sooth Dining Hall Se~Jd ~ddtt5:S rotKc;tion!i-to: 
Nom Dame:. IN 46556--0779 The~c:r Pmodi<al pomg<: pili"'Non< o .... ll0.llo>.779 aM a&Urional mailing offi~ 024 Sou<h Dlning Hall 
No,.,O..,e, IN 46556-0n9 
The Ob6trver .is a member :of the: AssocW¢d Prm. AU reproduction r~ts arc reserv<d. 
Natural law still applies 
How do we decide whether we are doing right or wrong? Jack Bauer and the "24" counterterrorism unit might say the test is utility, a point that might be disputed by their torturees. Others might ask whether the act makes you feel good. 
There is a better way. Through the nat­ural law, we can know the right and wrong of our own actions and we can set moral limits to the power of the state. 
Everything has a law of its nature, built into it by its maker. A rock will sink. And your Chevy will run if you put gasoline, but not sand, in the tank. When we talk about the natural law, we mean the law inscribed in the nature. of human beings by their Maker. The natural law is not a Christian invention. Aristotle and Cicero, the Roman statesman, aflirmed it. Saint Thomas Aquinas, however, provided the most comprehensive exposition of it. 
The natural law is a rule of reason by which man (of both sexes) can know how he should act in order to achieve his final end of eternal happiness with God. The "first and general principle" of that law, as Pope Benedict XVI recently put it, is "to do good and to avoid evil." The good is that which is in accord with the nature of the thing we are talking about. It is good to feed your Chevy gasoline. 
As for man, Aquinas said, "all those things to which man has a natural inclination are naturally apprehended by reason as being good." From those inclinations we reason to conclusions. From the inclination to preserve one­self, we reason that it is good to eat a balanced diet and not to gorge on Big Macs. We know that theft is wrong because it is inconsistent with the incli-nation to live in community. From the inclination to unite sexually and raise our offspring, we conclude that sex should bn reserved for marriage and marriage should bn permanent. And so on. We make these judgments through our conseience, a faculty of our intel­lect. "Moral truth is objective," said Pope John Paul 11, "and a properly formed conscienee qm perceive it." However, to declare that theft, etc., is objectively wrong is not to judge the subjeetivn culpability of the person who does it. To be morally culpable, one must know it is wrong and yet ehoose to do it. Wn generally have noitlwr the right nor the capaeity to judge the sub­jective eulpability of anyone. 


But whose natural law arc you going to apply? Supremn Court Justieo James Iredell, in 1798, rejeeted natural law because "the idoas of natural justice are regulated by no fixed standard: thA ablest and the purest men have dif­fered upon the subjeet." 
People may sineerely disagree, as they have on slavery, abortion, etc. But they can't both be right. "If ... we con­sider one action in the moral order," said Aquinas, "it is impossible for it to be both good and evil." 
Our intellects are weakened by origi­nal sin. But the Lawgiver of the natural law eame to the rescue of wounded human nature by giving us the Commandments, which are specifica­tions of that law, so we would have sure guidance. And Christ, who is God and the Lawgiver, founded one Church, headed by his Vicar who is the authori­tative interpreter of the natural law and the Commandments. The Magisterium, or teaching authority, of the Church is possessed by the Pope and the bishops in union with him. "Christians," said John Paul II, "have a great help for the formation of con­science in the Church and her Magisterium.... The Church puts her­self ... at the service of conscience ... helping it not to swerve from the truth about the good of man." 
Everyone has a pope, a visible authority on moral questions. If it is not the real Pope, it will be a pope of the individual's own choosing-whether Bill Clinton, Sean Hannity or the indi­vidual himself. It makes sense that we have one Pope rather than seven bil­lion, whieh would involve the natural law and its Lawgiver in a chaos of con­tradictions. 
The natural law is a standard for human law as well as for personal con­duct. Martin Luther King echoed Aquinas when he said that "an ur\iust law is a human law that is not rooted in eternal law and natural law." As Aquinas put it, if a human law "deflects from the law of nature," it is unjust and "is no longer a law but a perversion of law." llosa Parks af!irmed the natural law when she refused to give up her seat on the bus in Montgomery in 1955. A law mandating raeial segregation is unjust and void. Aquinas said that we may be obliged t<J obey an unjust law "to avoid seandal or disturbance," but that a law that is unjust because it would eompel one to violate the divine law must never be obeyed. 
The alternative to natural law is some form of legal positivism, which is based on the idea, as I Ians Kelsen put it, that "justice is an irrational ideal.'! If we cannot affirm any knowable, objec­tive norms of justice, we cannot define any moral limits to what the state can do. "[l]f there is no ultimate truth to guide and direct political activity," said John Paul, "then ideas and convictions can easily be manipulated for reasons of power." We all know that by experi­ence. 
The natural law has not been repealed. Think about it. Even Jack Bauer might find it of interest. 
Prof Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. He can be reached at 
(574) 633-4415 or at rice.l@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Kaitlynn Riely Dan Murphy Emma Driscoll Lorenzo Reyes 
Do you plan to donate money 

Viewpoint Dan Maloof Bethany Scene to a political campaign? Whitfield Marty Schroeder Graphics Matt Hudson Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Don't go around saying the world owes you a living. The world owes !fOU nothing. It was here first.· 
Mark Twain American author 



THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, April24, 2007 page 9 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Seniors encouraged to sign pledge, incorporate values 
Graduating seniors, we stand at the brink of the rest of responsibility, of obliged love for our fellow brothers and human solidarity andconcern for the common good that our lives. This place we have called home for the past four sisters. This week, we are given the opportunity to estab­will bear fruit as learning becomes service to justice." years is giving way to a new home. We have in our recent lish ourselves in our new home, our new family and to pro­The words themselves, being only words, mean nothing past studied, prayed, lived and served ?O well, but now this claim that we do, in fact, have an integral role to play unless we embody them and take it upon ourselves to live localized earthly paradise is giving way to a new environ­among our adopted siblings. out God's commandment to love. In this Notre Dame com­ment, a new and larger community in which we must This week (April 23-27), we commit-in the Class of munity which is giving way before our eyes, let us maintain choose to be ourselves and of which we must choose to be 2007 Pledge of Social Responsibility-to affirm our our solidarity. Let us, as one class, sign the Pledge. a part. humanity. The Pledge reads, in part, "The University seeks 
For so long, we have lived under the protection of so to cultivate in its students not only an appreciation for the Audrey De Guire many dedicated individuals -our parents, our rectors, great achievements of human beings but also a disciplined senior our administrators -but it is a luxury which at this very sensibility to the poverty, injustice, and oppression that Pasquerilla West moment is giving way to a new and frightening world of burden the lives of so many. The aim is to create a sense of April23 

U-WIRE 
In 2004, filmmaker Sergio Arau asked America a simple question: What would happen if you took all the Latinos out of California? Arau posited a guess with "A Day Without a Mexican." 
We can easily imag-Zeke Turner ine what would hap­pen if all the Latinos The Dartmouth 
disappeared from California. For that matter, it would not be too hard to imagine what would happen if every wage-working immigrant in America went missing. 
I selfishly wish that Arau had made his movie about interns instead. What would happen if you took all the unpaid interns out of New York City? Now that is a movie I would take time to see. 
Immigrants and interns are not often mentioned in the same breath but, as an intern, I feel a certain solidarity. with the immigrants that surround me in the melting pot of New York City. 
Our generation has cast aside jobs as camp counselors and busboys to instead sort corporate America's mail. This in an attempt to put a couple of lines on our resumes ·to make the words "Dartmouth College" really 
Intern Internment 
sparkle (or to divert our attention from the omission of our GPAs). 
Since I have left my friends and pro­fessors in Hanover and returned home to intern, I have found it hard to be optimistic all the time (maybe I should be traveling instead). All my intern gloom goes away when I behold the romantic sacrifice of the American immigrant. 
One stormy morning last week, I asked my Polish housekeeper how hard it was raining outside. She told me I needed an umbrella, and I rolled my eyes, saying I would rather miss work than go out in the rain. 
"Work?" she asked skeptically. "But you're a student." 
How should I explain the idea of an internship to her? "It's not a real job, Krystyna; it's just for experience." She still looked confused so I rethought my words. "I only make 10 dollars a day." 
She broke into a grin. "My job is bet­ter than that!" I left that morning with the sound of her laughter still ringing in my ears. 
As an intern, I expect people to laugh at me. Nobody has any respect for interns; they are at the rock bot­tom of any professional hierarchy. The masochist inside of me -and Skip Sturman-thinks that interning bal­ances my willy-nilly Ivy League class­room scholarship with solid profes­sional experience (which is correct). And yet, I still cannot help feel that the dullness of internships might cause my brain to rot. I blame this suf­fering on my professors. 
Our professors imagine that our brains are weapons. I imagine that mine is a death ray. At Dartmouth, I feel like I am using my death ray to capacity, writing poetry, mastering the cello, solving mathematical riddles, translating Catullus and pursuing other "lonely acts," just as the late College President James 0. Freeman would have wanted. 
As an intern, I cannot help but feel that my death ray is being wasted scanning coupons at a supermarket. How can I do something practical like work when I feel like I should be culti­vating my mind? 
At the end of the day, we interns work for little to no money because we know there is another half-educated, resume-wielding twerp willing take our spot, waiting right behind us, and any deliveryman in New York City knows that if he did not show up for work, there would be somebody else willing to do his job, and his absence would be little more than an inconven­ience for the person who hired him. 
Interns and immigrants also under­stand the value of completing unfulfill­ing work for future benefits. 
Jose, the young man who handles the trash and Windexes the mirrors in my building, once told me that before he came to America, he was training to be a pharmacist. Since arriving in America, doing unskilled labor has provided Jose with immediate money, and he probably anticipates that his children will benefit from his hard work. Or maybe he will just save some money and buy an iPod. Either way, he is living the American dream. 
In their own way, internships pos­sess a special dreamlike power; they allow us to test the waters of our future. If our death ray temporarily gets laid to waste on a foreign shore, so be it. 
This column originally appeared in the April 23 edition of The Dartmouth, the daily publication at Dartmouth College. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Submit a Letter to the Editor or Guest Column to viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
no length. nolo 
author's·· 
ph •'idiii;;;,,;} • 


Submissions must be in by 3:00 

p.m. to be considered for publi­cation the next day. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, April24, 2007 
DVD REVIEws· 

'Kong' DVD roars new life into colossal film 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA Senior Staff Writer 
The seminal moment of Peter Jackson's childhood imagination came on a Friday evening in 1970. Huddled in front of his parents' black and white TV, the 9-year-old Peter saw the 1933 classic "King Kong" for the first time. It was love at first sight. 
It "was one of those defining moments in [my] life where everything changed after I saw 'Kong,"' Jackson admits in a documen­tary about his version's genesis. 
In his years following that 1970 evening, young Peter busied himself with making his own version of "Kong." Using his mother's fur coat for the hair, he built a wire and rubber Kong figure. He spent hours deli­cately manipulating the simian, remaking his favorite film using his parents' Super-8 movie camera. Eventually, Jackson had to face the cold hard facts. 

"I got so far and just realized it was never going to be what I was imagining it to be in my mind," he says. 
Cut to Dec. 14, 2005 and the release date for Universal Studios' remake of "King Kong." The results speak for themselves. Jackson's "Kong" is a staggering achieve­ment, a modern marvel of filmmaking ingenuity. Working on a number of levels, it excels as a period piece, an action adven­ture and a love story. It is a work of sur­prising warmth and tenderness thanks to its star, a captivating, digitally-rendered ape who feels more real and humane than dozens of more atypical and mediocre human protagonists. 
Late last year, Universal debuted the three-disc "King Kong: Deluxe Extended Edition" DVD, which clocks in at a hefty 201 minutes-14 more than the theatri­cal release. Most of this footage comes down to action set pieces on Skull Island, including an awe-inspiring triceratops stampede. Jackson and his crew have poured a great deal of effort into this fasci­nating archival project, and it shows. 
Split over the first two discs, the image and audio quality are both pristine. Supported by a thundering soundtrack, the film's breathtaking cinematography and crisp digital backdrops are !lawlessly sharp and vibrant. Much of "King Kong" takes place at night, a typical problem qrea for most DVDs, which tend to lose detail in these scenes. That is not the ease here ­and it is in these deep, inky blacks that "Kong" shows its dexterity. 
A seemingly boundless array of special features await within the confines of this DVD, including deleted scenes, a blooper reel, trailers and a featurette that com­pares this "Kong" to the 1933 version. Chief among them is "Recreating the Eighth Wonder: Making King Kong," a three-hour documentary that rivals the film itself in its scope, depth and running time. None of it is tlufl', which may be its greatest strength. 


In the first 10 minutes of the "Eighth Wonder" feature, Jackson expresses his obvious love for behind-the-scenes looks at movie making. A'i a kid, he would seek out the magazines that had set photographs showing stop-motion artists at work. That enthusiasm has carried over to his DVDs, which feature heavy contributions from the New Zealander director. 
Between this "Kong" extended edition and the superlative, four-disc "Lord of the Rings" extended editions, Jackson has established himself as the DVD medium's biggest supporter. He enthusiastically offers up explanations and lessons on every aspect of fllmmaking on this release, and the two most notable contributions are his warm, insightful commentary with co­writer Philippa Boyens and the mammoth "Eighth Wonder" feature. Simply put, "King Kong: Deluxe Extended Edition" is the best DVD of the last year and one of the fmest DVDs ever released. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 
'Ducks' 3-pack relives glory of childhood sports 
By SEAN SWEANY Assistant Scene Editor 

Sometimes movies are so campy, cliched and predictable, they're actually quite entertaining and good. When it comes to early '90s movies, there is perhaps no series of movies more in tllis vein than the trilogy of "Mighty Ducks" films, recently released in a DVD 3-Pack. 
Disney produced three "Ducks" films between 1992 and 1996 -featuring nearly identical plotlines and slapstick routines ­that bombed with critics but skated to com­mercial success with audiences, spawning a television series and the creation of an NHL team. 

"The Mighty Ducks" (1992) 
When trial lawyer Gordon Bombay (Emilio Estevez, "The Breakfast Club") is arrested for drunk driving, he is sentenced to serve community service as a pee-wee hockey coach for a ragtag team of misfits. Although a rocky marriage at first, coach and team discover there are more impor­tant things than winning and use that moral to win the district championship game against their arch-rivals, Bombay's old team and coach. 
This film is the most childish and innocent of the three, and it introduced America to several child actors who would later make big names for themselves, including Shaun Weiss ("Heavyweights") and Joshua Jackson ("Dawson's Creek"). 
"D2: The Mighty Ducks" (1994) 
This is the best -or at least most rn­watchable -of the three, and it follows Bombay and the now famous Ducks as they travel to Los Angeles to compete in the Junior Goodwill Games against the best youth teams in the world. Both Bombay and the team must overcome ego struggles and the feared Iceland team before they can be crowned world champs. 
This film is the best of the group because it is perhaps the most outlandish. The hock­ey is ridiculous, Estevez' locks sparkle from his numerous hair treatments and product placements for Delta Airlines and the Mighty Ducks NHL franchise -both highly connected to the Disney company -are everywhere. Nevertheless, the happy-go­lucky, feel-good attitude this film evokes overshadows all the drawbacks and makes "D2" a lasting legacy. 
"D3: The Mighty Ducks" (1996) 
The third and final "Ducks" film takes a step back from the second, putting the Ducks iJ! a private prep school and effec­tively releasing Emilio Estevez of his duties early in the plot. Under a new coach, the Ducks struggle to be themselves (a common thread throughout the films), but eventually unite under the changed leadership to defeat the school's varsity team. 

"D3" essentially re-uses all the gags from the first two films, but in this ease, all the enthusiasm seemed to have left-from the writing to the directing and acting. Additionally, the absence of Emilio Estevez -whose spacey delivery and mannerisms made the first two films enjoyable -is sorely missed. 
While it is nice having all three "Ducks" films in one DVD set, there is nothing in the way of extras to entice casual fans to buy the set. There are literally no special fea­tures, not even the films' trailers. As the films were made in an era before the incep­tion of DVDs and their special features, per­haps it is not surprising that there are no extras here. 

Obviously, this DVD set is not meant to wow anyone and it caters to a very specific audience (its Amazon.com DVD sales rank is a miserable No. 2,793). In reality, tllis set is a guilty pleasure for many of us who grew up playing street hockey to chants of "Quack, quack, quack" and making sure to incorporate the"Flying-V." Fans of the "Mighty Ducks" films or any early '90s, uplifting sports movies will enjoy it as a trip down memory lane. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
.----------------------~­
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Tuesday, April24, 2007 
page 11 

SC ,RD 
'Sunny in Philly' offers brilliant career paths 
With graduation rapidly approaching, the unlucky seniors (like me) who don't already have jobs or graduate school lined up are scrambling to find some way to make money next year, since flex points and Domer Dollars aren't valid currency. 
If you don't actually have a real career plan, then the next best thing is to do something with your friends-and. ideal­ly, something where you wouldn't have to exert yourself and do a lot of.work. One possible plan would be to open a bar. and this is exactly the premise of the growing, critically­acclaimed show "It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia." 
Airing during the summers on FX­and entering its third season this sum­mer -"It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia" revolves around the lives of four completely self-absorbed 20­somethings who run a bar-Paddy's Pub -in the titular city ... because they have nothing else to do. Frequently compared to '"Seinfeld' on crack," the show is less about the bar and more about the antics and situations they encounter in their daily lives. 
The show centers on four friends ­the twins Dennis (Glenn Howerton) and Dee {Kaitlin Olson) Reynolds and their 

Erin McGinn 
Assistant Scene Editor 
friends Mac (Rob McElhenney) and Charlie {Charlie Day). The second sea­son also introduced Dennis and Dee's father Frank, played to comic perfection by the diminutive yet hilarious Danny DeVito. 
"It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia" has covered a wide variety of controver­sial topics, including abortion, gun con­trol and slavery, through the day to day lives of the characters, and often in their politically-incorrect manners. During the first season, their activities included faking cancer in an effort to get laid, turning up on opposite sides of an abortion rally to meet girls (and get laid) and allowing underage high schoolers to drink at their pub-I think one of the characters wanted to get laid. 
The second season is where the actors and writers truly hit their stride and the show truly shines. In one episode, Dennis and Dee decide that they are sick of working with their dad, who's taken part ownership of the bar, so they go on unemployment. Once their unem­ployment runs out, they try to figure out a way to go on welfare, then set out to smoke crack in order to prove that they're in need of public assistance. Instead, they wind up addicted to crack and all the while insist that they've been emancipated from the daily drudgery of a workday existence to chase their dreams. · 
The show was created by McElhenney, Howerton and Day, and nearly all of the episodes are written by so~e combina­tion of those three. They filmed a pilot episode for under $200 and sent it to FX, which decided that it was good enough to be made into a show. Since they air during the summers, the sea­­sons are fairly short. The first season has only seven episodes, and the second only 10. There are supposed to be 12 to 15 episodes in the upcoming season. Although there are few episodes, they are all highly memorable. And much like any Will Ferrell film, the series is incredibly quotable and highly re­watchable. 


With only 17 half-hour-long episodes 
{all available for download from iTunes). it's entirely possible to get through the series in a weekend. So with study days quickly approaching, grab some friends, some beverages and download the episodes. 
And who knows, if you're an unem­ployed senior, it might just give you a couple ideas. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Erin McGinn at.emcginn@nd.edu 
DVD REVIEW 

'Volver' breathes with tragedy, humor on DVD 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
Pedro Almod<lv.ar's "Volver" is one of the saddest, funniest and heart-warming films to be released in recent memory. Starring Penelope Cruz and a host of other Spanish talent, this film is quirky without being inaccessible, tragic with­out being depressing and humorous without being trite. It is a beautiful piece of storytelling that is both local and uni­versal in its themes. 
"Volver" revolves around sisters Raimunda and Sole {Cruz and Lola Duenas) and Raimunda's daughter Paula (Yohana Coho). When a tragic event befalls Raimunda's husband, the film takes divergent paths by telling the story of Raimunda dealing with her now absent husband and the possibility that her mother ·may be haunting her aunt's house. 

While always a monumental task to tell multiple stories within one film, Almodovar does it with skill and aplomb. Though the stories are not narrationally about the same things, they certainly are thematically. This is the strongest point of the film -the way in which Almodovar weaves local traditions and stories of Spain into universal themes of family and community. Raimunda's encounters with the denizens of her town are some of the most rewarding parts of the film and offer important lessons in a world that is becoming increasingly alienated from the concept of communi­ty. 
Cruz shines and revels in her role. Although the film is in Spanish, even those who do not speak the language will understand her emotion and apti­tude in the art of acting. She delves into her character being both harsh and lov­ing in the space of a word. Her role as daughter, sister and parent bring out multiple facets of Almodovar's character and Cruz polishes all these facets until they shine brightly. 
The DVD release is a single-disc edition that offers some sparse but worthwhile features. The American Film Institute (AFI) tribute to Cruz is an in-depth look at one of the most respected actors in the world that is not only able to make it big in her native Spain but also in the cut­throat world of Hollywood. The director and cast interviews are the best features on the DVD. Hearing the famed and sto-ried Almodovar talk about what it was like to make not only this film but also others is worth any sticker price. It is something akin to sitting at the feet of the master and absorbing everything he has to say. Alongside the interviews are commentaries by both Almodovar and Cruz that offer new insights into the decidedly complex film. While there is something to be said about letting a film like "Volver" just sit in the mind for awhile with no outside commentary, what the two primary forces behind the film have to say is equally important. 


Overall, this is a marvelous film that was loved by both critics and audiences. 
It may not be Almodovar's best work, but it is certainly one of his warmest. In the vein of the French "Amelie," it warms even the coldest hearts. But unlike "Amelie," this film takes a deeper look at the human soul and relishes in what it finds. The tangled mess of the soul reflects on the tangled mess that families can be. It doesn't seek to undo the tan­gles; it rather tries to find a way into the loving core of those tangles that all of us have somewhere, however deep we may have it hidden. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel @nd.edu 
.------------­
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April24, 2007 
MLB 
Willis becomes first four-game winner in NL 
A-Rod blasts 14th homer, but Yankees fall to Devil Rays; Swisher helps the A's end the Orioles winning streak 
tive game after losing six in a row, York Yankees out of a tailspin.
Associated Press 
while the Braves lost their lead in A-Hod tied the major league 
Awaiting the imminent birth of the NL East, falling a half-game record for home runs in April, hit­his first child, Dontrelle Willis behind the New York Met'>. ting his 13th and 14th of the sea­went about his business Monday, Francoeur went 4-for-5, includ­son in a loss to the Tampa Bay pitching 6 2-3 innings and hitting ing his fourth homer, and drove in Devil Hays on Monday night. 
a. standup triple to help the four runs to give him 22 HBis. Hocco Baldelli and B.J. Upton Florida Marlins beat the Atlanta Teammate Andruw Jones drave offset the Yankees star by combin­Braves 8-7. in two runs on his 30th birthday. ing to drive in seven runs for 
Willis (4-1) became the NI;s first Kyle Davies (0-1) threw 90 Tampa Bay. four-game winner. pitches in four-plus innings. He Baldelli hit a three-run homer 
Sitting at his locker 3 1/2 hours · walked six and gave up five runs, off Kei lgawa (1-1) in the second before the game, Willis said his and his career ERA in six games inning. Upton lined a solo shot oil" wife, Natalee, was expected to against the Marlins rose to 9.68. the left-field foul pole in the fourth deliver a daughter Monday night. The Marlins stranded eight in for a 5-3 lead, then added a He said he had received 50 phone the first four innings· before Olivo three-run double off reliever Luis calls and 32 text messages broke a 2-all tie with his first Vizcaino to finish with a career­Monday from people inquiring homer, which skipped off the top high four RBis. about the birth. of the scoreboard. Willis tripled The Yankees, swept during a 
The expectant father with the off Oscar Villareal and scored on a weekend series in Boston, big windup wasn't at his best, giv­singled by Hanley Hamirez, and dropped their fourth straight ing up eight hits and five runs. Uggla's homer made it 8-2. despite getting homers in the sec­But he won his fourth consecutive Atlanta scored in the first on ond and ninth innings from A­start against Atlanta and consecutive singles by Edgar Rod. Rodriguez's average rose to improved to 13-2 in April. Renteria, Chipper Jones and .400 after going 4-for-5 with three 
Batterymate Miguel Olivo hit a Andruw Jones. Chipper Jones RBis and four runs scored. three-run homer, his first. Dan decided against trying to score The second-inning solo shot off the left-field stands off Fossum, ning streak with a victory Monday Uggla homered and drove in from third on a one-out ground­Casey Fossum (2-1) was the 477th who also yielded a solo homer to night. three runs, giving him three out to second, and Willis escaped of A-Rod's career and extended Robinson Cano in the fifth. The Swisher hit a two-run homer in homers and nine RBis in two without further damage. his hitting streak to 18 games to Devil Rays left-bander allowed six the fourth and added a solo shot games. Willis singled in the sec­Florida scored twice in the first. start this season and 23 in a row runs and 10 hits in 5 2-3 innings against Danys Baez in the ninth. It ond inning, then tripled and Uggla doubled off the scoreboard dating to last September. The two­and benefited from the Yankees was his seventh career two­scored during the Marlins' six-run to drive in a run, and Aaron run shot off AI Reyes in the ninth hitting into four double plays. homer game, and the third time fifth. Boone hit a two-out RBI single. gave him 34 RBis and tied the Derek Jeter singled in the sev­he homered from both sides of the 
Marlins rookie Henry Owens Chipper Jones hit the Braves' mark for homers in April set by enth inning, giving him a 14-game plate. allowed a solo homer to Chipper first triple. of the year in the third Albert Pujols in 2006. hitting streak. He and Hideki Oakland's Dan Haren (2-2) Jones and consecutive doubles to and scored on Francoeur's single. lgawa allowed seven runs and Matsui, activated from the dis­allowed one run, five hits and a Andruw Jones and Jeff Francoeur He was a double shy of the cycle. eight hits in 4 1-3 innings. New abled list earlier Monday, drove in walk over seven innings to lower with two outs in the ninth before York pitchers have given up six runs for the Yankees with sacri­his ERA to anAL-best 1.41. It was Renyel Pinto struck out Brian Devil Rays 10, Yankees 8 runs or more in five straight fice flies. the sixth time in seven games that McCann for his first save. Two more homers by Alex games and nine of 18 this season. Josh Phelps drew a bases­an A's starter yielded one run or 
Florida won its third consecu-Hodriguez couldn't pull the New Rodriguez lined a 2-2 pitch into loaded walk and Jason Giambi less, and the 16th consecutive added an RBI single as New York game in which Oakland starters pulled within 7-6 in the sixth. But permitted no more than three the Yankees bullpen couldn't keep runs. the Devil Rays from pulling away Haren left with a 5-1 lead, and again. the A's held on after Aubrey Huff 
Tampa Bay loaded the bases in hit a three-run homer off Alan the seventh on a double and two Embree in the eighth. Huston walks. Upton doubled down the Street allowed an RBI single to left-field line and all three run­Brian Roberts in the ninth and ners scored easily .. before getting Miguel Tejada to 
The Yankees had one more ground out with the bases loaded chance, loading the bases with for his fifth save. one out in the eighth. Devil Rays Haren had received a total of reliever Brian Stokes escaped by five runs of support in his previ­getting pinch-hitter Johnny ous four starts, but offense wasn't Damon to foul to third and strik­an issue in this one: The A's out­ing out Melky Cabrera. put in the fourth inning surpassed 
their run total in 14 of their first Athletics 6, Orioles 5 18 games. 
Nick Swisher hit two home Roberts also homered for the runs, including a drive that Orioles, who had won eight of sparked a five-run fourth inning nine. against Erik Bedard, and the Bedard (3-2) retired the first Oakland Athletics ended the nine batters before giving up five Baltimore Orioles' four-game win-hits and a walk in the fourth. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Very large home for rent for next school year. 1 block east of cam-WANTED FoR RENT pus. Walk to class/food/shops. 4 
huge bedrms/3 full baths/large SUMMER WORK-$15.50 base-andersonNDrentals.com kitchen-lam rm & laundry rm. 3 appt. flexible schedules, no decks overlook exp.needed, BETTER HOMES,BETTER huge fenced yard. Very private & customer sales/service, conditions AREAS,BETTER DEALS. safe! apply, BlueGoldRentals.com Must see! 239-707-2025. 
all ages 17+, positions throughout the US, 3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for WALK TO CAMPUS!! JAMISON apply now, start after finals. 07/08 school year. On line see rent-RESIDENTIAL 3 BDRM 2 BA LUX-www.workforstudents.com nd.com or mmmrentals.com. URY CONDO. ACROSS B-BALL 
Contact Gary at Grooms@ourweb-STADIUM FROM CAMPUS. Sitter for 11-year-old girl in Granger spot. net or phone 574-277-4759. SLEEPS UP TO 4 STUDENTS. and sometimes older sisters, 15 & EXCELLENT RENTAL 
17. Days, 30-40 hours/week now Condo for rent-walk to ND/SM. Grt FOR 2 GRAD STUDENTS OR FOR through summer. Reply: loc.Spac.Lower, PRIVACY. Linda.Harmon1 @comcast.net 2b/2b incl.all appli. CONVERT 3RD BEDROOM TO 
AJC,Carpet, Porch, STUDY. CAB,NET,GAS,ELEC, Car Port $925 + utiI. 630-417-INCLUDED.FoR SALE 8763/MCL214@aol.com $1600 PER MONTH 
BEGINNING 6/1. CALL MARK@ *NO CONDOS* Houses for rent for 2007/8,8/9. 310-940-9444. NEW 2/3 BR,2 bath condos Close to campus. 3-9 bedrooms. Minutes from Call Anlan Properties at 532-1896. New 3 BR,3.5 bath twnhse, close to campus campus, carpet, unfurn, all appi,AC, Starting in $130,000s 574-252-1-bdrm apts. Quiet historic neigh-2 car gar. No pets. 2427 ndcondos.com Reserve Yours borhood. Laundry & security. $1650/mo plus util. Today! $575/mo. 574-532-8718. 914-232-3328. 
Across the street from NO, Corner Lot. 4 BR,2 full baths. AIC & heat. Extra parking. 269-362-0498. 
Room in beautiful home overlooking private golf course. 1.2 mi to ND. Privileges include kitchen for light cooking. WID. $275/mo. Call 574­232-7564. Avail. now and/or for 07­
08. Addl room avail for football weekends at $125/night. 
Furnished 1 bdrm apt., 2 mi to ND, AC, non-smoking, no pets. $400/mo 
+ utilities, free laundry, fenced yard. 574-289-9365. 
Two custom built riverfront homes for sale or rent. New construction, 10 minutes to Notre Dame. First home has 4 bedrooms, 4 baths, 3500 sq. ft. Second home has 4 bedrooms, 3 baths, 3300 sq.ft. Both have a walkout lower level with second fire­place and gorgeous views. Must see! Windsor Prop.LLC 574-876­3424 CHICAGO AREA HOUSING Adopt: A young loving OPPORTUNITY for Female NO couple long to share their Grad: Family in Northbrook has Hearts and home with a home-bound 17-yr-old daughter newborn & will provide with chronic illness similar to chron-Endless love. ic fatigue syndrome. Free room & Expenses paid call board for responsible person to live Eileen & Ed at in house & act as "big sister". Three 1-800-718-6577 blocks from Metra. Call: Dan 312­913-2130 or Chris 574-339-0582. If you or someone you 
care about has been sexually

PERSONAL assaulted, visit 
http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do to leam about resources at not go it alone. If you or someone NO and in South Bend. you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Evergreen Self Storage. Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more Both climate and n information, visit our web site at on-climate http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-controlled. nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad Sizes from 10x10 to 10x20. in The Observer. Located in the Princess 
Way Industrial Park PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME-in Granger at ONE WHO IS? You do not have to 12575 Sandy Drive. be alone. We want to help. Call our Mention this ad and save 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-10% off your lease. 800-No-ABORT or visit our website Call 574-243-4608 or at www.lifecall.org 574-272-0618. 





OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, April24, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NCAA Men's Baseball Top25 
team record prev. 
1 Vanderbilt 35·8 1 
2 Florida St. 37-6 3 
3 Virginia 34·9 6 
4 Rice 33·11 7 
5 Texas 33·12 5 
6 North Carolina 33-9 2 
7 Arkansas 32-11 9 
8 Oregon State 31-8 8 
9 South Carolina 31-10 4 
10 Wichita State 34-9 10 
11 Arizona Stale 32-10 11 
12 Oklahoma State 31·10 15 
13 ~epperdine 30-13 13 
14 Arizona 31-9 12 
15 Cal State Fullerton 26-12 17 
16 UC Irvine 28-11 18 
17 San Diego 32-14 19 
18 Texas A&M 32-10 16 
19 Clemson 26-13 14 
20 Michigan 26·8 22 
21 Coastal Carolina 33-8 21 
22 Mississippi State 25-10 20 
23 Mississippi 27-15 24 
24 Georgia Tech 26-14 NR 
25 UCLA 22-16 NR 
Baseball Big East Standings 
team Big East Overall 
Rutgers 12-3 24-14 Louisville 1H 28-11 St. John's 11-4 25-12 PiUsburgh 11-6 19-16 Cincinnati 74 21~17 
Seton Hall Syracuse Rutgers Providence St. John's Pittsburgh Villanova 
around the dial 
NBA 
Heat at Bulls 
8 p.m., TNT 
Lakers at Suns 
10:30 p.m., TNT 
MLB 
Braves at Marlins 7 p.m., TBS 
CYCLING 


Associated Press 
PARIS -Follow-up tests on backup urine samples by Tour de France champi­on Floyd Landis found traces of synthetic testos­terone, the French sports newspaper L'Equipe reported Monday. 
The tests on seven "B" samples clearly showed traces of the banned sub­stance, the paper said on its Web site. _Landis had insisted the follow-up tests weren't necessary because the primary "A" samples tested negative for banned substances during the Tour. 
The tests were done at France's national anti-dop­ing laboratory of Chatenay-Malabry outside Paris. L'Equipe said the lab used a technique that can distin­guish synthetic from natu­ral forms of testosterone, a male sex hormone. The lab is the same one that revealed Landis' positive test for elevated testos­terone to epitestosterone levels after he won the 17th stage of last year's Tour. 

Pierre Bordry, president of the French anti-doping agency, told The Associated Press the tests were con­cluded this weekend but he dido 't know the result because they were sent directly to the U.S. Anti­Doping Agency, which requested the tests. 
Landis spokesman Michael Henson said Monday the head of the French lab prevented the cyclist's expert, Paul Scott, from entering the lab Sunday to witness the test­ing. 
"Such behavior consti­tutes a clear and direct infringement of Landis' rights while casting severe doubt on the integrity of an already dubious process," Henson said in a statement. 
Bordry confirmed the incident had taken place but said it stemmed from a prior agreement stipulating that Landis' expert would attend the test with two USADA experts. 
Scott was excluded 
Sunday because USADA experts didn't show tip, Bordry said. 
USADA general counsel Travis Tygart said agency rules prevent him from commenting on an active case. 
Landis lashed out at USADA in a statement Monday, saying the incident in which his expert was barred from the French lab was "yet another in a series of malicious actions." 
''I'm infuriated by the behavior of USADA" and the French lab, Landis said. "Togethe~ they have turned this proceeding into a full-scale attack on my civil rights and a mockery of justice." 
IN BRIEF 
No St!ll>rise as Barbosa wins 
NBA 6th man award 
PHOENIX -Leandro Barbosa, among the fastest players in the NBA, ran away with the league's sixth man award Monday. 
The "Brazilian Blur" received 101 of a possible 127 first-place votes from a media panel. 
The honor came one day after Barbosa matched his career playoff high with 26 points -in the Phoenix Suns' 95-87 victory over the Los Angeles Lakers Sunday in Game 1 of their opening series. 
"Give him a soccer ball," the Lakers' Kobe Bryant said when ~sked what could be done to stop Barbosa. 
"Tell him Brazilians should be play­ing soccer, not basketball." 
Barbosa was a reserve in 62 of the 80 games he played this season, adding extra speed to the already fast Suns. · 
"It's a fun team to win so many games," Barbosa said. 

Metal bats to be replaced in 
New York school system 
NEW YORK -Metal bats will be banned from high school baseball in the nation's largest school system starting this September after the City Council on Monday overrode a may­oral veto of the bill. 
The measure outlawed metal bats under the theory that they produce balls with greater velocity and raise the risk of injury because of less reaction time. Opponents, including little League Baseball and equipment suppliers, say there is no evidence metal bats are more dangerous. 
Youth leagues and lawmakers are proposing similar bans in other areas, including New Jersey, where a 12-year-old boy went into cardiac arrest and suffered serious injuries after a batted ball struck him in the chest. 
In New York City, Mayor Michael Bloomberg vetoed the bat ban this month. 
Fallen pilot remembered by
Oklahoma football coach 
NORMAN, Okla. -The Navy Blue Angels pilot who died Saturday in a crash in South Carolina once had Oklahoma fo.gtball coach Bob Stoops as a passenger in his plane. 
Lt. Cmdr. Kevin J. Davis of Pittsfield, Mass., was in his second year with the Blue Angels, who are known for their high-speed aero­batic demonstrations. 
Last May 10, Davis took Stoops and former "American Idol" win­ner Kelly Clarkson on a ride in his Blue Angels jet in Fort Worth, Texas. 
On Sunday, Stoops recalled the flight. "My experience with Lt. Davis was overwhelming," Stoops said. 
"You just don't run into that cal­iber of person very often. He was bright and obviously very intelli­gent; a role model. That came across to me in just half a day." 
r----------------­
I· 
page 14 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, April 24, 2007 
Please join Fr. Jenkins 
for a discussion of Pope Benedict XVI's Encyclical ... 

DEUS CARITAS EST
..,.,::::w·=· . ..:,:r:::­

FRIDAY. APRil27 

4:00p.m. Opening Mass at Alumni Hall Chapel (Fr. Jenkins presiding) 
5:15p.m. Reception in the Grand Hall of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
... 6:15p.m. Opening remarks from Fr. Jenkins 
... 6:30p.m. Keynote speech from Ms. Brosnahan followed by panel discussion 
SATURDAY. APRil28 
... 
9:00a.m. Breakfast buffet in the Grand Hall of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies ... 
9:45a.m. Keynote speech from Fr. Anderson followed by panel discussion 
... 
11:00 a.m . Concurrent presentations of student papers (including roundtable discussions with faculty and students) Noon Lunch in the Grand Hall of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies -1:00 p.m. Continue with concurrent presentations of student papers 
KEYNOTE SPEAKERS 
... Ms. Mary Brosnahan, director of the Coalition for the Homeless in New York City and a 1983 graduate of Notre Dame The Very Reverend Philip Anderson, O.S.B., Prior of Our Lady of the Annunciation of Clear Creek Monastery 
nd.edu/encyclical 
~UNIVERSITY OF For catering estimates, please email g·odislovt·Qi}nd.cdu and indicate your attendance. WNOTREDAME 
'------------------------------------------------­
-___j 
Tuesday, April24,2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
CLUB SPORTS 
Women's water polo secures bid to the nationals 
Men's sailing finishes third in Northwestern Regatta; women's sailing fails to qualify for nationals at Diamond Lake 
Special to The Observer 
Women's Water Polo secured a bid to nationals this weekend by winning the Midwest Conference Tournament. 
Playing at home, the Irish started off strong, beating Western Michigan 15-2. Cristina Romano and Kelly Horner led the scoring with four goals apiece, MC Cimino and Kristin Schmitt each had two, and Bridget O'Neill, Ali Schilling and Emily Harig each added another. Goaltending was split between Betsy O'Neill and Maggie Hyde. 
In the championship game, the Irish faced Grand Valley State. GVSU scored the first two goals of the game, but the Irish came back with seven unanswered goals, leading to an eventual score of 15-3. 
O'Neill led the team with five goals, Horner added another four, Schmitt and Romano had two apiece, and Cimino and Schilling each one. The cage was guarded by goalie O'Neill. 
The team will head to nation­als in two weeks, which will be held at Williams College in Massachusetts. 
Sailing 
The Notre Dame sailing club just missed qualifying for women's nationals as it placed third in the qualifier the Irish hosted at Diamond Lake -the top two schools qualified. 
Jaci Chase and Kerry Kilbourn finished fourth in A's, while Tricia Hughes and Ali Donahue placed third in the B Division. 
The men's Irish squad, com­peting at the Northwestern Regatta, finished third among 16 schools. Tim Roy and Nasha Baughman were tenth in A's and Tim O'Brien and Paul Cordes captured first in B's. 
Men's Rowing 
Notre Dame's varsity and novice crews squared off against Northwestern, Marquette, and North Park Rowing Club at Crystal Lake Park. The racing was over an 1800-meter course located northwest of Chicago. 
The novice 4+ set the tone for the regatta by winning the first race of the morning. Andria Seneviratne's crew of Steve Walter, Nick Springer, Ben Queen, and Mark Brickey edged out Northwestern's top crew by a margin of 7:16.25 to 7:18.72, while easily leaving behind two Marquette crews and one North Park boat. Radhika Deva's boat of Craig Wiborg, Tomas Castillo, Andrew Matasic, and Matt Napierski took fourth in the lightweight 4+ event. Notre Dame's varsity 4+ crew of Mike Lehmann, Ray Schleck, Tedd Hawks, Michael Lucci, and Steve Maher took third in the varsity event, while Gigi Gutierrez, Karol Grzesiak, Jake Teitgen, P.J. McAward, and Taylor Donaldson finished fourth in the same race. 
The eight-man Irish crews were the first to the finish line all afternoon. Julie Lambe's sec­ond varsity eight raced Northwestern's lightweight 8+, which is Northwestern's fastest eight-man boat. Lambe's crew of Michael Lutkus, Tom Mazzacavallo, Matt Degnan, Andrew Baker, Andrew Matasic, Matt Napierski, Nick Kluesner, and Michael Giordano finished in 6:07.75, leaving the Northwestern lightweights 7 seconds behind. 
The novice 8+ boat of Beth Daley, Steve Walter, Nick Springer, Ben Queen, Mark Brickey, Andrew Haynes, Yang Chen, Tom Kenny, and Jorge Trejo captured an easy victory in their event. 
The closest competition for Notre Dame's first novice boat was Notre Dame's second novice boat. Caitlin Hawryszkow coxed Brian Simpson, Josue Rodriguez, Conor Binder, Steven Cumberworth, Colin Cimala, Devin Vrable, Tommy Clarke, and John Deng to second place in the event, leaving Marquette and Northwestern behind from the start of the race. The last race of the day featured Notre Dame's top two crews in the varsity 8+ event. Gigi Gutierrez's crew of Ray Schleck, Tedd Hawks, Karol Grzesiak, Jake Teitgen, Michael Lucci, Taylor Donaldson, P.J. McAward, and Steve Maher completed the course in 
6:00.31. Julie Lambe coxed nearly the same crew as in her previous race, with Craig Wiborg and Tomas Castillo switched in for Andrew Matasic and Matt Napierski. Lambe's boat finished second in 6:06.7 4, while Northwestern's two boats took third and fourth. 
Cycling 
The Irish women salvaged an otherwise lackluster weekend for the Notre Dame 

Cycling Team by scoring top 20 finishes in both races this weekend. 
Women's A-racers Meghan Johnson and Jenn Perricone with Men's A racers Matt Prygoski, Neil Griggs, Mike Lavery, Andy Steves, and Tim Campbell made the trip to 
Wisconsin this weekend with Peter Nistler accompanying in support role. 
Saturday's race was a 70-mile road race through the rolling glacial deposits of Sheboygan County, Wisconsin. 
The Woman's A field departed on their 50-mile excursion min­utes afterwards. Perricone put in her best effort to date and showing the great strides she has made throughout the sea­son by placing 12th while Johnson fell off the pace early, but dug deep to come back and finish 15th. 
The Men's A field splintered apart due to the wind, aggres­sive racing, and a few well timed attacks. The first casual­ty of the race was Steves, who returned to the team car 40 miles in an attempt to save his legs for the next day. Campbell choked on a Powerbar in a feed zone and consequently fell of the pace, and Griggs dropped ofT soon after. 
Campbell eventually caught Griggs and the two finished the race for the Irish 
coming in outside of placing. 
Prygoski and Lavery stuck with the pack for most of the race, with Prygoski falling off when the group counterat­tacked one of his moves. Prygoski also came in outside of placing. Lavery exhibited his Ironman endurance with the highest Irish placing at 17th. 
The weather was beautiful for the Irish in Sunday's criterium around the Capitol Building in downtown Madison, Wisconsin. The one-kilometer square was fast and had one decent rise, which put the hurt on riders. 
Perricone and Johnson lined up first for the Irish in their 45­minute elite Women's A race. Johnson and Perricone suffered sore legs from the previous day's effort, but 
still managed respectable 17th and 19th place finishes, respectively. 
The one-hour Men's A race was fast, completing nearly 28 miles. Griggs and Steves were gapped early in the race and chased hard, but were pulled from the race 30 minutes in and not allowed to finish, Lavery, Prygoski, and Campbell worked hard throughout the race, launching attacks and making moves, none of which lasted. 
With 3 laps to go, Campbell went off the front in an effort to win the race solo. No one from the pack organized the chase and Campbell opened up a size­able gap. With 2 laps to go the peleton became,motivated to chase and Campbell was caught with three quarters of a lap remaining. 
Prygoski and Lavery contest­ed the field sprint coming in 17th and19th with Campbell coming in outside of placing. 
The Irish will compete this weekend in the Midwest Collegiate Cycling Conference Championships in Indianapolis, the last regular season race weekend. 

SMC SoFTBALL 
Fifth-place Belles to face three MIAA rivals this week 
away. cially with school work," she Briton sophomore Andrea sophomore Ashley Fusaro (.359)
By REBECCA SLINGER 
The fifth-place Belles are cur­said. "But I think we can pull it English leads the team with a -have combined for 96 runs Sports Writer 
rently one spot out of the four­off and make it work." .322 batting average in her 87 this season. Fusaro is second in team tournament, but freshman Today, the Belles (18-6, 3-5 at-bats this season. Albion has the league with six homers and 
Saint Mary's has a busy week outfielder Ashley Peterson does­MIAA) will battle it out against only won two of their nine Miesle is third in the league with ahead of it, facing three MIAA n't think the crucial week will eighth-ranked Albion {10-21, 3-9 games on the road this season, 31 runs scored rivals with the conference tour­slow the Belles momentum. MIAA) at 3:30 p.m. at Gainey while the Belles are undefeated "Instead of a few people hav­nament less than two weeks "It's going to be tough espe-Field. at Gainey (3-0). ' ing key hits everyone's hitting 

[well], from the top to the bot­tom of the order," Peterson said. 
The Belles pitching staff has also been carrying their weight in the past few games, and soph­omore Kristin Amram's earned the most recent MIAA pitcher of the week honors. It is the third time in her career that she has received such an honor. An1ram is second in the league with 116 strikeouts this season in 73 innings and has held batters to a .199 batting average when fac­ing her. Alma senior Kay McDonald leads the league with 150 strikeouts in 100 innings. 
The Belles will have to stay focused as they take on Hope Thursday and Kalamazoo Saturday in two more MIAA con­tests. Peterson said the looming league tournament, held May 5­6, isn't occupying the team's thoughts. 
"I don't know if it's added pressure, but I think we all want to work hard," she said. "We work hard all the time so as long as we keep it together, we'll be fme." 
Contact Rebecca Slinger at rslingOl @saintmarys.edu. 

On Campus Graduation Weekend Special May19-23, 2007 
Come early, stay late, same price! Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents. Weekend donation is $100.00 per parent, Whether you stay Two, three, or four nights. Rooms are available Thursday through Sunday. For reservations call574-631-7512 or 574-631-9436 
Albion is a less accomplished squad, entering with a team ERA of 4.93 and batting average of .251. The Britons' ace pitcher is sophomore Amber Hummel, who has posted a 3.40 ERA but owns a 2-7 record, thanks in large part to poor run support. 

In the past week the Belles have returned to their early-sea­son form, easily handing losses to Goshen and Olivet. The Belles' top four sluggers -freshman Ashley Peterson (.436), sopho­more Kristin Amram (.429), sen­ior Sarah Miesle (.408) and 
• 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April24, 2007 
Cats 
continued from page 24 
erful offense and dominant pitching into South Bend, bat­ting .297 as a team with a 1.77 EHA. Sophomore Tammy Williams and seniors Katie Logan and Garland Cooper have given opposing pitchers fits all season with their com­bination of power and speed. 
Williams leads the team with 
a .465 batting average and 11 homers on the season, while Logan is close behind batting .380. Cooper has been one of the premiere power hitters in the nation this season, hitting 18 home runs with 54 RBis while batting .370. 
The Wildcat pitchers have been just as dominant as their hitters this year, with pitchers Lauren Delaney and Eileen Canney each giving up less than two runs per game. Delaney, a freshman, sports a 16-2 record with 15 complete games. Canney, a senior, is 20­8 with 20 complete games and 236 strikeouts in 169 innings. 
Despite the success and tal­ent of Northwestern, Irish sophomore pitcher Brittney Bargar said the team is still very confident. 
"We have been doing a good job putting the ball in play and taking advantage of opponents weaknesses," Bargar said. "We have been playing amazing defense that has really limited our opponents." 
The game likely will carry extra significance for the Irish, whose season has been ended by the Wildcats the past two years in the NCAA Tournament. Notre Dame will have to get its hitting back on track to have a chance against Northwestern -in the four Irish losses over the weekend, the team scored just four runs. 

"A huge key to our success is scoring first, and making things happen," Bargar said. "Taking the momentum right off the bat and staying ahead are really important." 
Much of the team's success this season has also been based on the performance of Bargar and fellow pitcher Kenya Fuemmeler. Bargar 
leads the team with a 16-9 record and a 1.98 ERA, while Fuemmeler is 8-9 with a 3.00 ERA. 
Notre Dame is 13-1 in games in which the Irish have scored first, and 20-0 when leading through the first three innings. 
The game is the second to last at home for the Irish, who will play their last home game against Illinois-Chicago Wednesday. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish one round aW"ay fron1 conference ti tie 
ND holds three-shot lead into final round 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Notre Dame is poised tD win the Big East championships when it enters the final round today with a three-stroke lead. after it shot a 14-over par 392 in the second round Tuesday. 
Louisville shot the lowest score of the day Monday with its 11-over par performance, shaving three strokes off the Irish lead to move into second place. South Florida is a dis­tant third, 22 strokes behind the Irish. 
Notre Dame's overall score is an 18-over par 594 with solid contributions from the team's young golfers. 
Freshman Annie Brophy clubbed a one-over par 73, mainly due to her team-high five birdies on the day. After shooting an even par in the first round, the freshman leads the Irish in scoring and is in a tie for second in the tournament. 
Senior co-captain Noriko 
Nakazaki shot a two-over par 7 4 on the day, placing her in a tie for sixth place. After her first round score of one-over par, Nakazaki looks to move up the leaderboard with a strong final round. 
Freshman Julie Kim fell six strokes behind her first­round mark when she fired a six-over par 78 after break­ing for even par on the first day. She enters the final round in command of seventh place. 
Sophomore Lisa Maunu equaled her first-round mark of a five-over par 77 on the second day, which was good enough for a ninth-place tie. She is the third member of the Irish in the top-10. 
SMC GOLF 

One more chance to qualify 
Belles tee offin MIAA NCAA qualifier final round this afternoon 
By KATE ARNOLD Sports Writer 
It has all come down to this. 
Saint Mary's will compete today in the third and final round of the MIAA NCAA quali­fying tournament, held at Tri­State University's Zollner golf course. With a two-day total of 760, the team currently sits in fifth place, behind Olivet, Albion, Hope and Tri-State. Captain Katie O'Brien leads the team with a score of 165. Sophomore Meredith Fantom follows next, with a total of 192. 
The Belles have had their sights on this tournament all spring, but the team is current­ly 36 strokes off the lead going in to the final round. 

"The past few weeks have mostly consisted of fine tuning our golf swings and working mainly around the green to help us score low," Fantom said. "Spring break was incredibly intense for the golf team since we were playing every day, and we really have worked hard since then to practice every day and really work on the areas that each of us needed to improve on." 
Although it's a long road to victory, the team still has high hopes. 
"The course we are playing tomorrow is not nearly as tough as the course we played this past weekend," Fantom said. "Consistently working on chipping and putting [has been I the most crucial part of preparing ... because with a solid short game we will bfl able to score low as a whole team." 
The Belles are a young team, and were forced to change their fall line up due to the loss of talented players, but they remain confident and enthusi­astic. 
"If we don't qualify for Nationals this year, it is in our future plans for next year, and we are all very excited to be one of the top competitors in the fall next year. Our team is extremely close knit and I think that will attribute to our successes this season." Fantom said. 
After today's competition, the MIAA squad with the lowest cumulative score will advance to the NCAA Championships held May 8-11 at El Campeon Golf Course at the Mission Inn and Hesort & Club in Howey­in-the-Hills, Fla. 
Contact Kate Arnold at karnold2@nd.edu 

Freshman Kristin Wetzel is in 13th place after she shot a 1 0-over par 82 in the second round. 
The Irish will tee off for the final round at the Oxmoor Country Club in Louisville, Ky., Tuesday morning. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
Sign up fo.-the Lectio@Eieven 
READING SLAM! 
Tuesday, May 1 
10:30 pm. ·Midnight Recke.-'s 
A five-m.inute public .-eading of any text could win you a $200 gift ce.-tificate to the Ham.m.es ND Booksto.-e! 
Musical inte.-ludes by: D'Osca.­E.-in Duquette 
Lectio@Eieven A Late-Night Caba.-et fo.-the Soul 
For more information or to sign up: Jonathan Couser (574) 631-3923 or jcouser@nd.edu 
Sponsored by First Year of Studies 


PHIL HUDELSON!The Observer 

Irish freshman Annie Brophy hits from the fairway during the Irish Invitational Sept. 24 
----------------------------------------------------------------------~---------------------------­
Tuesday, April24, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Coach 
continued from page 20 
Comets in 2000. She continued her education during that time, earning her juris doctorate from Notre Dame Law School in 1997, which she used as the first president of the WNBA Players Association. In that role, she helped formulate the players," McGraw said. "And she has done a great job of working with our guards. She's done a very good job recruit­ing." 
Washington became the sixth former assistant coach or play­er under McGraw who has moved on to coach a Division I team. Former McGraw assis­tants Sandy Bothrnan (Wisconsin-Milwaukee), Bill Fennelly (Iowa State), Kevin McGuff (Xavier) and Carol 
league's first col­lective bargain­ing agreement. 
Washington has played an important role in both game-plan­ning and recruit­ing for the Irish. She focused on coaching the guards and was crucial in devel­oping Frances P o rn e r o y Owens (Northern Illinois). as well as former player
"You ·re always going 
B e t h to lose people. I feel · Cunningham 
like it•s my job to get 
(Virginia Commonwealth).

them ready for a 
are all members

head coaching job.,, 
of the McGraw coaching tree. McGraw said

Muffet McGraw 
that while losing

Irish coach 
a coach like 
Washington is 
difficult, it is an get them ready for a head coaching job." 
McGraw also said that Washington's departure could give her other coaches ­Jonathan Tsipis and Angie Potthoff -a chance to step up to fill that void. 
"It will be an opportunity for somebody to come in and then do some things here," she said. "And it will also be an opportu­nity for the two assistants that we currently have to do a little bit more." 
One additional problem with Washington going to Penn State is that the Irish are scheduled to play them next season at the Joyce Center in the second leg of a home-and­horne series. McGraw said that this causes a problem because she does not like to play against her former assistants and avoids scheduling games against their teams whenever possible. 
"It's just interesting that they're already on the sched­ule, but we'll see," she said. "They have not called yet about dropping the game but we cer­tainly will talk about that." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

SMALL BALL 

DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer Irish junior Ross Brezovsky lays down a bunt during Notre Dame's 8-4 loss to Central Michigan March 27 at Frank Eck Stadium. Brezovsky is batting .297 so far this season. 
Co111e and Listen Co111e and Read Co111e and Play Lectio@Eieven 
A Late-Night Caba.-et fo.-the Soul 
11:00 pm every Tuesday at Recker's Free pizza supplied by First Year of Studies! 
April24: A Fireside Chat by FYS Dean Hugh Page Music by Joey and the Matchmen 
Lectiorq£/even brings a cabaret of great music and great writing, read aloud, for the Notre Dame community. Come to Recker's and hear it with your own ears! 
We are always looking for more readers and musicians. If interested, contact Jonathan Couser at jcouser@nd.edu or call 631-3923. 
Sponsored by First Year of Studies 
Cards 
continued from page 24 
we'll be fine," he said. 
Another problem that sur­faced against West Virginia was an inability to fend off breaking pitches in the strike squad that was 2-6 in con­ference play at one point. 
But Schrage doesn't want to make any promises with conference leaders Rutgers and Louisville stili left to play. 
"We have a tough schedule ahead," he said. There are opportunities for improvement, however, like 

zone. The Irish scored 28 runs through their first 21 innings against the Mountaineers. But once Mountaineers reliever Chris Enourato started throw.: ing his slider for strikes, Notre Dame looked help­less. 
"The other two guys weren't able 
· 'The other two guys weren •t able to locate their breaking stufffor strikes, but he was putting them over the 
plate.,, 
Dave Schrage Irish coach 
tonight's match-up with non­conference Ball State. T h e Cardinals are 15-24 overall and just 4-11 in the Mid­American Conference. 
First base­man Matt Stoeklen, who is hitting .319 this sea­son with four horne runs and 25 RBis, leads the Ball Naismith award winners Niele Ivey (2001) and Megan Duffy (2005). 

"She's really grown tremen­dously into the coach that she is now from all the different experiences she's had here working with so many different inevitable part of coaching col­lege basketball. 
"When you graduate a player who did a lot for the team, I think it's the same thing with coaching," McGraw said. "You're always going to lose people. I feel like it's my job to to locate their breaking stuff for strikes, but he was put­ting them over the plate," Schrage said of West Virginia's pitching. 
Even with the loss, howev­er, the Irish have won six of their last eight games. And, if the season ended today, they would qualify for a spot in the Big East tournament -an impressive feat for a State offense. 
After the Cardinals, the Irish will wrap up their 12­garne horne stand against Valparaiso Wednesday before traveling to Piscataway, N.J., to play the Scarlet Knights over the weekend. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


-' 

.----------------.-.-----­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 24, 2007 
Marks01en 
continued from page 24 

aggressive press, trapping in the corners and dropping back to a 2-3 zone that tried to swallow the point guard at the top of the key. This defense worked well for the Barbers, who quickly climbed out of their hole to pull within one at the half. 
The game was physical with both teams jawing, hustling for rebounds, and playing gritty in­your-face defense. With the game tied at 20-20, it came down to ball control and free throws. The Marksmen shot poorly at the line, going 1-6 from the charity stripe. In the end, though, it was the speed and athleticism of the Marksmen that helped them pull away. 
With the ball at the top of the key, the Marksmen stole a lazy pass off of the Barbers, leading to a foul on the ensuing layup. The Marksmen missed their free throw attempt, but in Bookstore Basketball, a team only shoots one free throw and gets the ball back. On their possession after the missed free throw, the Marksmen's George Fisher, wearing No. 3, was fouled. Fisher then sank the free throw to win the game. 
''I'm number three for a rea­son because the third time is a charm," said Fisher, talking about his previous misses from the line before his game winner. 
"It was a hard fought game, and we made a lot of strides to where we want to be," Marksmen coach Alvin Reynolds said. "[Marksmen players] Tommie Lee, Geogre Fisher, and Dan Djondo all played very hard and did a good job of finishing the game." 
Engineering Giants 21, 
lngabo Ziba Abakabwa Bawe 
3117 
In this battle of two capable and athletic teams, it was the Engineering Giants that were able to come through in the end in this marathon of a game that lasted over an hour and a half. 
The game, which began with a fast pace, quickly slowed down as both teams had difficulty scoring. Ingabo relied heavily on .its athleticism to help them pen­etrate to the heart of the Giants' 2-3 zone, while the Giants relied on their size advantage to attack the post. With both teams col­lapsing in the middle and inca­pable of consistently making outside shots, points were sparse. With little offense to sep­arate the two teams, the Giants handled the ball and rebounded better to take an 11-10 lead at half. 
The second half was much the same; however, as time wore on, conditioning became a big fac­tor. Both teams' offensives slowed down even more in the second half, but it was the 
SOFTBALL 

Giants who were able to handle a longer game. Fatigue con­tributed to Ingabo committing even more turnovers in the sec­ond half, which allowed the Giants to pick up easy buckets. In the end, the size and endurance of the Giants were just too much. 
"This just proves that old men, old engineers nonetheless, can still play," Engineering Giants coach Tim Hall said. 
"If we played them ten times, they would win five," Giants player Phil Schonewill said. "It was a very hard fought game." 
Air Force One 21 Straight From Da 'Burbs 10 
Air Force One flew on all cylin­ders Monday, taking care of Straight From Da 'Burbs in con­vincing fashion. 
Before the game, 'Burbs cap­tain T.J. Ceravolo was not intimi­dated by his team's noticeable size disadvantage. 
"I wake up every morning, and I [urinate] excellence," he said. 
Despite Ceravolo's confidence, Air Force One used its size to establish an inside presence early. St. Edward's freshman Joe DeMott authoritatively grabbed boards and hit several inside shots. No one from Da 'Burbs was able to challenge him in the paint. 
Air Force One captain Rich Ybarra was responsible for han­dling the quick Ceravolo, and he did so effectively throughout the contest. On the offensive end, Ybarra ran his offense patiently and efficiently, refusing to yield to the pressure applied by Ceravolo. 
When Straight From Da 'Burbs fell behind early on, frustration 
Castle Point Apartments 18011 Ch~veJand Road South B~nd, Indiana 
O..r:.J:eRing GT-Zea~ 
Indoor/Outdoor Ten.nisa..nd Basketball 
·:·::. ··=:·:·:':':":·::·:·:-.....: ·:···=·::·.·::=\1 

ONE LucKY GoLD RusH MEMBER 
'j J W!J'' . TJHJ) Tr) IRrr '\'!j·)l
Wi " W :• A .\11 \. . r.u .!> . , 
BASEBALL @!£!'" ~~~~oo 

sank in. They aggressively chal­lenged every single Air Force One shot, even shots that had no chance of being blocked. They committed 18 fouls total, allow­ing Air Force One to reach the bonus early on in both halves. 
While the outcome of the game was never in doubt, Ybarra and his teammates were far from pleased with their level of play. 
"We definitely have to play better than that in the next round," Ybarra said. 
Indian Peaks 21 We Sold Our Naming Rights to Miml19 

In an intense and well-played contest with a running time of more than 70 minutes, Indian Peaks outlasted We Sold Our Naming Rights to Mimi, coming away with a two-point victory. 
Naming Rights' big man Sean Murphy felt good during warm­ups. 
"We're excited. [Captain] Matt Cavo is going to be feeling it," he said. 
Indian Peaks, led by captain Matt Frankenfeld, attempted to set the tone early by creating fast break opportunities, but Naming Rights ran the floor in both directions, not allowing any easy baskets for Frankenfeld or his teammates. 
Cavo and his teammates may have been feeling it on the defensive side of the ball, but neither team could establish an offensive edge early on. Impenetrable 2-3 zone defenses employed by both teams forced several turnovers and prevented either from establishing an inside presence. With gusts of wind wreaking havoc on every 

A student skies for a lay-up during a Bookstore Basketball game this weekend. 
574-272~8110 

574-272-8114. FAX www.cppJ.7Com 
... . 

Specials! 
outside shot, points were at a premium early. 
Eventually, Indian Peaks' Ray Farabaugh found his rhythm. He ran his team's offense with unmatched proficiency, and his shots were the first to start dropping. 
Naming Rights kept pace by grabbing rebounds and convert­ing crisp outlet passes into easy buckets, eventually coming to within one point of Indian Peaks at 20-19. 
At that point, Frankenfeld put an exclamation point at the end of his performance. With momentum on the side of Naming rights, Frankenfeld established position underneath with a beautiful spin move from the free throw line. He was fouled on the shot and made his free throw to secure victory for Indian Peaks. 
Contact Jay Wade at jwade@nd.edu and Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 

TUESDAY, APRIL 24TH @7:00PM TUESDAY, APRIL 24TH @6:05PMVS. NORTHWESTERN VS. BALL STATEWEDNESDAY, APRIL 25 @6:30PM WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25TH@ 6:05PM
VS. UIC (FINAL HoME GAME) 
VS. VALPARAISO 

THIS WEEK's GAMES BROUGHT TO vou Bv: 
,;.i(ijJ'ijjijfiJi 
r@ wau...; NOTRE DAME 
SPORTS BAll f£D£tJH CtiOil UNION
,......_ 

·\· .. 
Tuesday, April 24, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 


HENRI ARNOLD ADAM FAIRHOLM JUMBLE

CROISSANTWORLD 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

Jl!JJM&IbrE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
FRUMO 

riJ I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
GOROF ± 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
IWODIMS± 
TI-lE TIRED CLIM.BE:R SAT ON THE:
[ J [ ] 
LE:OGE: BE:C.AU5E: 
www.jumble.com 
HE: FE:ARE:D--­
tSNIPPE 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J rJ [ J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

A: "r I I I I I I I J" rI I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterda 's I Jumbles: PRIZE · JUMPY EQUATE COBALT y Answer: What the electrician gave the customer when he finished the 'ob -QUITE A "JOLT' 
LIAMMORAN
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Valerie Bertinelli. 47; Craig Sheffer, 47: --"' 
Vous avez des ennuis pour J e suis Guillaume_ Je n'aime pas Ia 
Jan Hooks, 50; Joyce DeWitt. 58 
boire de Ia biere de Natty recreation_ Votre punition : vous irez en Light. Vous irez avant le Amerique. La vous pouvez manger Jes 

Happy Birthday: Doq't be afraid to speak your mind this year. Once you clear the
bureau de Ia vie et du pommes frites et marcher autour sans 

air, you can do all the things that have been unavailable to you the past couple of
logement de residence. 

years_ Investments, real estate deals. health concerns and legal matters can be put 
Pamplemousse. 

to rest if you are aggressive. Your numbers are 2, 13. 15. 28. 33,38 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Take a serious look at your present situation and decide what you must do to make things more to your liking. A little time and space to think things through willlielp. Plan a mini vacation or a business trip. ** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You can make some positive changes to your home .. or even make arrangements to move from one place to another. Give a little hack to your community. In doing so, you will probably hook up with someone who shares your interest in a project you've been trying to get off the ground. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A change that happens to someone in your neighborhood or to a friend or relative will influence you in a positive way. You can stabilize yom personal life if you make some alterations to your living arrangements. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't think so much about what needs to be done. Instead, take action and follow through. Don't let anyone bully you into taking on 



64 *Writer Boothe Luce 65 Tucson-to-New Orleans route 66 *Quilt filling 67 It may be perfect 68 Actress Garr of "Mr. Mom" 69 Eye sore 
Down 

"It'll be_day  
in hell ... "  
2  Bull-riding  
event  
3  Pre-euro  
money  
4  Shade of blue  
5  Not in custody  
6  Model T feature  
7  Storied Swiss  
miss  
a  Praise highly  
9  Approves  

10 Quit for good, jobwise 11 Welch's product 
12 Kennedy Center focus, with "the" 
13 Wall Street in its. 21 Equine color 22 Store stock: Abbr. 25 Trampled 26 Publicize 
29 _Might Be Giants (rock group) 
30 Schoolyard retort 
31 "Lou Grant" newspaper, with ''the" 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Holden Baker  
32 Arizona city  44 Erich Weiss, on  54 Multilane rte.  
33 Tool kit carrier  stage  55 Noisy public  
34 Buddy  45 Fish-eating  fight  
35 Bygone  eagle  56 Treaty  
36 Puns and such  47 Prickly plants  57 Author  
40"  a traveler  50 Cry to the band  Stanley  
"·  51 Fruit-packing  Gardner  
"Ozymandias"  unit  61  Actress Ruby  
42 "Bali  52 Western flick  63 Football gains  
43 Malt-drying kiln  53 Birdbrain  or losses: Abbr.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
responsibilities that don't belong to you. A positive attitude will help you get ahead.*** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will experience something unusual today that wili clear up some of the misunderstandings you have had in the past Don't act in haste --it isn't your move. Observation and being secretive will be your best weapons.*** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Someone who is particularly nice to you may have ulterior motives. It's OK to do for others but don't become a martyr. Set your boundaries and don't let anyone step over the line. ****** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Travel to a destination that offers insight. developmenl and entertainment. The people you hang out with and the groups you get involved with will inspire you to take on new challenges. Don't let laziness be your downfall when you have so much potentiaL ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Stick close-to home. You will get lots done and will make a decision that will shape things for your future_ A project you have been working on should start to bring in greater cash flow_ ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Trust in your own moneymaking abilities_ An ­investment, contract or something you are selling should bring you a profit. However. do not do anything at the expense of someone else or the deal will fall through.***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't take someone else's word for it--find oul for yourself before you take action_ Emotional issues will surface so be prepared to deal with them quickly. You can change your direction if you aren't happy with your current position. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't let your emotions cause you to make mistakes with colleagues, peers or even your health. Think matters through so that you don'l instigate something that will backfire. Discuss your plans with the person you are closest to. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Something very special will occur if you get out with friends or place yourself in a social setting. An offer you can't refuse is apparent Make sure you fully understand what's being asked of you_ Minor health issues or injuries may limit your ability to get things done. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You are generous, original and sensitive to the needs of others. You are a fixer and a solution-finder. You are well liked, intellectual and extremely intuitive. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultatiom 

CROSSWORD Across 
Poodle sounds  
5  Aspirin target  
9  Hymn  
accompanier  

14 *Angler's float 
15 Terrifying dino 
16 *Bush's 2004 
foe 17 Jazz singer 
Anita 18 Cafe au 19 Assists, three-
pointers, turnovers, etc. 20 N.F.L. Hall-of-Farner Ford 21 Not systematic 23 dixit 
24 *1960's Richard Chamberlain TV role 
27 Tease, with "on" 28 Nap under a sombrero 
31 *Ava Gardner's co-star in ''The Sun Also Rises" 
37 Resistance unit 38 Wished otherwise 39 Will Smith biopic, 2001 40 Fateful March 
day 41 Little devil 42 *Deli request 46 Nursery rhyme 
opening 48 Miner's find 49 What the 

answers to the seven starred clues all are or contain 
56 Persian sprite 
58 Harangue 

59 590, to Caesar 
60 Partner of 
dangerous 
62 Comic actor Jacques 63 Cry of fright 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, April24, 2007 
page 20 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXVI 
A close shave 
Marksmen need extra basket to secure win over Barbers Monday 
By JAY WADE and CHRIS DOYEN Sports Writers 
In a hard-fought, emotionally charged game, the Marksmen beat the Big League Barbers 22­20 Monday as the Bookstore Basketball field continued to narrow. 
At the start of the first half, the Marksmen jumped out to a quick 5-0 lead before the Barbers could gather them­selves. The Marksmen played an up-tempo style of play with an aggressive man-to-man defense, while the Barbers started ofT with a soft 2-3 zone. 
After the Marksmen's initial surge, however, the Barbers switched up their defense to an 
see MARKSMEN/page 18 


MEN'S GOLF 
Stellar round puts ND in contention 
Isban and Gifford get Irish back in the mix for conference title 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
After finishing Sunday's opening round in fourth place, Notre Dame mounted a charge and finished Monday with the second-best two-day score at the Big East championships in Louisville. 
The Irish now trail only the host Cardinals heading into today's final round. 
Louisville has a team score of 14-under-par 562-a mark 16 strokes ahead of the Irish. 
"It's always going to be a two-team race here," Irish sen­ior Cole lsban said. "They've just played better than us on their home course." 
lsban and fellow senior co­captain Adam Gifford led the comeback for Notre Dame, which overtook St. John's and Marquette on the leaderboard Monday. _ 
A day after tying his career­low round with a three-under­par 69, Gifford fired an even­par 72, leaving him tied for second in the individual stand­ings, behind Louisville's Daryl Fathauer. 
Isban, meanwhile, rebounded after shooting a first-round 76 to card a four-under 68 and move into a tie for eighth place in the tournament. 
Sophomore Josh Sandman continued his consistent play, notching a 74 Monday after shooting a 73 in the opening round. Sandman sits in a tie for 17th heading into today's linal round. 
Junior Greg !lodgers and freshman Doug Fortner round out the field for the Irish, with respective two-day scores of 148 and 149. 
Notre Dame is now six shots ahead of third-place 

ND SOFTBALL 
No.8 Wildcats roll into Ivy Field 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will look for its first win over a ranked oppo­nent this season today, facing off against No. 8 Northwestern at Ivy Field. 
The Irish (24-18) are coming off four straight lqsses over the weekend against Big East foes Louisville and South Florida. They will try to bounce back against the Wildcats (36-10) at 7 p.m. Notre Dame is 6-1 against non-conference opponents at home this year, dropping only a 2-1 game against Eastern Michigan. 
Northwestern brings a pow-
see CATS/page 16 


Marquette, though the Irish are more concerned with Louisville. Despite the 16-shot deficit, Notre Dame thinks it has a shot to make up ground on the Cardinals before the final team scores are tallied today. 
"We basically have to play match play with whoever we're playing against from Louisville," lsban said. "If we each beat our guy by four shots, then we have a shot." 
The Irish tee off for the final round in 10 minute intervals starting at 8 a.m. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S HOOPS 
Penn State hires Irish asst. coach 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish bench is going to look a little different next year. 
After spending 12 years with Notre Dame -four as a player and the last eight as an assis­tant coach -Irish c o a c h Coquese Washington accepted the head coaching position at Penn State Monday. 
The posi­tion opened when former Lady Lions head coach Rene Portland stepped down March 23 following alle­gations that she discriminated against lesbian players. 
Irish coach MuiTet McGraw said that Washington is pre­pared to step into the head coaching role. 
"She has the total package," McGraw said. "She's going to be a great head coach. I think she's ready for the challenges, and I know that she's excited about this opportunity." 
As a player at Notre Dame from 1989-93, Washington was a role player, earning a mono­gram all four years while lead­ing the team in steals in four seasons and assists in three. For her career, Washington is ranked second in Irish history in steals (307), second in steals per game (2.7), fifth in assists 
(554) and fourth in assists per game (4.9). 
Washington continued her playing career in the WNBA for seven seasons, winning a championship with the Houston 

see COACH/page17 

BASEBALL 
Pitching looks to bounce back at Eck 
Team looks to recover from Sunday's loss to WVU with Ball State 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
After seeing its five-game winning streak eome to a screeching halt against West Virginia Sunday, Notre Dame will try to regroup tonight at 
6:05 against Ball State at Frank Eck Stadium. 
The Irish (21-18, 6-8 Big East) were tied with the 
Mountaineers 7-7 after six innings Sunday but had their pitching collapse in the final third of the game and found themselves on the wrong side of a 16-7 decision. 
In the process, Notre Dame gave up 20 hits -by far the most this season. Irish coach Dave Schrage said he expects his pitching staff, which had been strong all year, to bounce back in time for the contest with the Cardinals tonight. 
"Our pitching has done well for us all year, so I'm sure 
see CARDS/page 17 





