
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 50 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 13,2007 

ResLife releases plan to fill Duncan 
Students invited to enter lottery in groups; freshmen, transfers to take remaining spots 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
The Ollice of Residence Life and Housing has announced it will fill the new male dorm, Duncan Ilall. through a lottery system. The dorm is sched­uled to open in August 200X. 
In addition to the standard group of approximately 80 freshmen who will enter Duncan next year, current stu­dents will be asked to bid for the remaining beds via a lot­tery system that will run early next semester, said Jeff Shoup, director of Residence 
Life. 
If fewer students apply for the lottery than are needed to fill the dorm, the remaining spaces will be filled with freshmen and transfers, Shoup said. 
"Clearly, we're not assuming that this will happen," he said. "But we have to make plans for either way -which is that either a bunch of people will apply or that nobody applies." 
Shoup also said Residence Life has been tallying the number of students visiting its Web site on Duncan and is "pleased" with the inter­est that has been indicated by the visitor count. 
"We're continually updat­ing the site," he said. "One of the newest additions is a 
see DUNCAN/page 6 


Police make 12 arrests, ask 8 to leave 

Seniors throw marshmallows during halftime of the Air Force game, prompting ushers to eject some students from the section. 
Officers also issue 22 arrest tickets before, during, after Saturday's Air Force game 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
Police made 12 arrests and issued 22 arrest tickets during and around the time of the game against Air Force on Saturday, said Phillip Johnson, director of the Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP). 
Along with the Indiana State Excise Police, St. Joseph County Police and the South Bend Police, NDSP made 12 arrests for alco­hol-related offenses, Johnson said Monday in an e-mail to The Observer. The arrests were 

First GreeND m_eeting attracts 85 
New environmental group pursues energy initiatives, seeks club status 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Writer 
The first meeting of GreeND, a new environmental group on earn­pus, drow more than 85 students last Wednesday night. 
Though GrceND has been in development only throughout this semester, students have been actively pursuing energy and envi­ronmental issues since the UnivPrsity administration created the Energy and Environmental Issues Committee in January 2007, GreeND president Lourdes Long said. 
The club will work to educate, efl'ect change and develop leader­ship with issues of energy, fmergy and environmental policy, strategic planning fi>r campus aetion and meyding, she said. 
The social justice aspects of 
see CLUB/page 4 mostly for public intoxication and some were for minor consump­tion of alcohol and minor intoxi­cation, Johnson said. 


Those arrested were taken to the St. Joseph County Jail. 
NDSP arrested one man for public intoxication on campus during the game, which began at 2:30p.m. The man was taken into custody and transported by police to a local hospital due to his level of intoxication, Johnson said. 
Following treatment at the local hospital, the man was 
see ARRESTS/page 4 


By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
The Right to Life club at Saint Mary's is hosting anum­ber of events this week to increase awareness of life 
· issues for Respect Life Week. "We do a lot of pro-life things in terms of abortion," secre­tary Meg Ryan said, "but thai's not all we're about." 
The group's events will go beyond than the group's anti­abortion stance and showcase a respect for human dignity. 
"We're about racism, pover­ty and war, as well," Ryan 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Festival enters its 41st year 
Prominent authors to read writings, discuss 
By BECCA LaLONDE News Writer 
Students intrigued by good writing -or the TV show "The Simpsons" -may be in luck. A number of award-win­ning writers, including a poet, a novelist, a journalist and a writer for the famous animat­ed comedy about the bright yellow denizens of Springfield will come to campus through­out the month for the Notre Dame Literary Festival (NDLF). 
The festival. in its 41st year, brings award-winning authors and workshops to campus. Among this year's festival authors are poet Patricia Smith, translator and novelist Lydia Davis, journalist and fic­tion writer Steve Almond and novelist Larry Doyle, who was a writer for "The Simpsons." 
Smith will present Tuesday and Davis Thursday. 
The lineup will make for an enjoyable series of events, said Megan Baker, festival chair. 
"If there's one thing all of this year's NDLF writers have in common, it's their sense of humor," Baker said. "They're all incredibly funny." 
Almond, for example, writes extensively about his "man crush" on Kurt Vonnegut, while Doyle's work for The Simpsons suggests his own capacity for jokes, she said. 
see FESTIVAL/page 4 

Right to Life club schedules events 
said. "The human dignity of every person needs to be respected." 
The group hopes the week will raise awareness of human dignity in all its forms. 
"I think [the attitude towards life at Saint Mary's] is sorely ignored," Hyan said. "It's not concentrated enough and scares people away." 
Hight to Life president Clare Albright suggested the cam­pus is filled with latent inter­est in life issues. 
''I'm sure [the issue of being pro-life] is within a lot of stu­
see LIFE/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, November 13, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Ghost-ridin' the vvhip 
If' only he had droppml the Chalupa. 
That was tlw story of' a rather comical 
story I remmnbnr· reading back in sev­
enth grade about some toenager who 
robbnd a Taeo Bnll in Dallas. Except he 
did it while 
going through 

Rohan Anand 
the drive-thru. 
On a bike. And 

News Production 
hn thrnatennd 
tlw workors 
h'ditor 
with a pnllet 
).,TLJn, of' all 

things, domanding two froe Chalupa'>. 
lie didn't get too far with his stolen 
snacks, a<; he wa'i later ).,TLJlllllld down by 
the police. Fortunately, he only sustained 
minor injuries. While I porsonally think 
that's prntty ballsy, it's not a<; sweet a<> 
tho ad of ridin' dirty. 

Perhaps if he had waited a lhw more 
ymtrs, hip hop and reggaeton artisl'i like 
Chamillionairn and Mistah EA.B. might 
have inspin•d him to diseover that there's 
anotlwr way to engage in criminal activi­
ty orr wheels. 

Folks, the act I am rnli•rring to is other­
wise known a.-; ghost-riding the whip. 
Originating in tlw tougher neighbor­
hoods of Oakland, Calif., ghost-riding 
involves putting the "whip" (urban lor 
<:ar) in nPutral and allowing it to idle, still 
rolling, whiln tlw drivnr and pa-;songers 
oxit. l.oud musie plays, and partidpanl-; 
must brnak it down whiln the car is in 
motion. 

llow<wer. tho thrill behind ghost-riding 
is losing it-; secrm:y. YouTubn.eom con­
tains a sPrins of' vidoos showing ghost­
riding in action, nach nnw one boasting 
ghost-riders throwing down funkier 

danen movos on vnhidns lhnn pickup 
trucks to minivans. 

You could say that Mistah EA.B. put ghost-riding on thn map whon ho rdeasnd his singl~> last summer, "Ghost ridn it." Tlu1musie vidno took plan• in very strnel'> of' (;]10sttown in Oakland. Listnnnrs can assodatn well with the song if' thny arn avid fans of the thmne song from the IIJS4 film, "(;hostbusters," since FA. B. sings to the same tune a<; il'i catchy thenw song. 
The lyrics arP <:atchy, too: "When U getta rww ear I uh huh uh huh I and U lilnlin' like a star I okay okay I watehu gono do'! Ghost ride it! I Ghost ride ya whip! I (;]lOst ridP, ghost ride I Get out tlw way and let C<L'>per drive I Ghost ride, go crazy I Who that drivin "! Patrick Swayze!" 
Caspnr. of eourse, refers to the friendly ghost, while Swayze starrnd in the 11J90 movie "Ghost." 
What an utterly sick -not to mention 1 00 p<•rcent nonviolent-avenue li1r self-expression. Cars, music and d;meing all at orwe -so that tmmagers can go crazy without evtm nt•eding be behind the whed. 
Keep your eyes peeled on campus­sometimes you can lind ghost-riding oecurring in the most random of plaees. Allegndly, ghost-riding wa-; spotted in the wee hours of a snowy morning during midterms la-;t ynar in a campus parking lot, with speaknrs bi<L'>ting D4Ls "Lalfy Tally." I'm surA, however, tlmt many peo­plo havn their own unique ghost-riding nxperinnce. 
Evon if a few minor injuries are sus­tained here and tlu1re, it's not just a cheap thrill-it's an adrnnaline rush. And it put-; a whole new meaning to the phra'>e, "brake dance." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obser11er. 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contaC[ us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH FOOTBALL TEAM WOULD YOU LIKE TO PLAY NEXT YEAR? 







HuiHung  Elizabeth Staten  Allison Vlcenzi  Emma Brizius  Domenique Manning  
sophomore Walsh  senior Walsh  freshman Walsh  sophomore Walsh  senior Walsh  
"University of Tennessee. The  "Missouri. Best state in the  "Missouri because my  ''The Litle Giants. ..  "Florida. Take a ..road trip.  

South will rise Midwest.,, cousins go 
,,

again!" there. 

DUSTIN MENNELL.AfThe Observer 

Students check out the jewelry, incense and crafts on display Monday at the Ten Thousand Villages stands in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy Hall. The displays will be in O'Shaughnessy through Thursday and in Mendoza on Friday. 
OFFBEAT 
Wise. officer accidentally tasers self 
MADISON, Wis. -A police officer has been rep­rimanded for accidentally discharging a Taser, caus­ing an injury -to the police officer. 
Madison police released a report Monday on the July 31 incident, without revealing the officer's name or gender. The department said the Taser accidentally discharged during a standard check­out procedure. 
According to a summary of the investigation, offi­cers are required to make sure no air cartridges are 
TODAY 
a:: 
loaded before testing the Taser gun at the start of each shift. It's the air car­tridges that propel the Taser's prongs, which deliver a jolt of electricity when they strike a target. 
Monkey injures several people m India 
NEW DELHI -A wild monkey went on a ram­page in a low-income neighborhood in the Indian capital, injuring several people, most of them chil­dren. police said Monday. 
Police sub-inspector Gaje Singh told The Associated Press that the attacks started late Saturday in 
the Shastri Park area of 
New Delhi, adding that it 
was not immediately possi­
ble to give an exact tally of 
the injured. Local news 
reports said as many as 25 
people were injured. 
Singh said officers were patrolling the neighbor­hood in search of the rogue animal. 
"But the monkey hasn't been spotted yet," Singh said. 
People in Shastri Park often sleep outside their homes or on open roofs to escape the heat. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
LLI :I: 
!;i 
::LLI 
~
... 
....I 
~
<( 

•••••• ~ 
C.) 0 

...J HIGH 55 HIGH 46 HIGH 49 HIGH 38 LOW 47 LOW 40 LOW 30 LOW 27 IN BRIEF 
There will be a luncheon with Notre Dame Law School Admissions today at noon. Ntltre Dame and Saint Mary's students who are considering Notre Dame Law School are invited to attend. Tlwre is no cost for the luncheon. Contact Margaret Edgington, Senior Staff Assistant, with questions or to HSVP: lawadmit@nd.edu 
Notre Dame women's bas­ketball will play in the second round preseason WNIT t(,day at 7 p.m. at thn Joyce Center. 
Tony Kushner's "A Bright Hoom Called Day" will be per­f'ormnd today at 7::10 p.m. at Decio Mainstage Theatre, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Student tickets are $H. Performances will run Nov. 1:1 to 16 and Nov. 1H. 
The film "Working Women of the World" will be shown tomorrow at 7 p.m. in C100 Hesburgh Center Auditorium as part or tho l'ilm series. "International Labor/1st World -3rd World Global Economy." 

"Loyal Daughters and Sons: Sexuality and Sexual Assault As Told by Notre Dame Students" will bn perform<~d at 8 p.m. tonight through Friday at Washington Hall. Tir.kets are $5 and arc available at the LaFortune Box Ollice. 
There will be a presentation on Careers in the State Department Thursday at 6:30 

p.m. in Montgomery Auditorium of LaFortune. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
FRIDAY GAME DAY 
' \\i~·l 
' '\~,,
"":-':t·-----/

·r--·1~..
-~ '.._, 
'-;../ .\1/

-~! ;........ 
~\ f~ 
""""'"· -­

: j, ,,
~~.l~ 
~T~ 

HIGH 45 HIGH 46 LOW 30 LOW 31 
Atlanta 72 I 51 Boston 59 I 40 Chicago 57 I 48 Denver 67 I 27 Houston 82 I 66 los Angeles 79 I 56 Minneapolis 52 I 36 New York 62 I 42 Philadelphia 64 I 46 Phoenix 83 I 57 Seattle 50/ 41 St. louis 69 I 56 Tampa 82 I 62 Washington 67 I 44 
-----------------------------------------------c--------.. 
Tuesday, November 13, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Study abroad ranks No. 6 in U.S. 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame has the sixth­highest percentage among American research universities of students participating in study abroad programs, according to a recently released report from the Institute of International Education (HE). 
In 2005-06, the most recent academic year for which statis­tics are available, 57.6 percent of Notre Dame students had participated in study programs in other countries. Yeshiva University in New York ranked first in the report with a 7 5.1 
percent participation rate. 
Notre Dame offers semester and year-long international study programs in 17 countries worldwide: Australia, Austria, Brazil, Chile, China, Egypt, England, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Russia, Spain and Uganda. This summer, stu­dents will have additional options, including special pro­grams in Amsterdam, Rome, Paris and Vienna. 
"Year after year, Notre Dame students prove their mettle by diving into new socio-cultural milieus and tackling linguistic challenges in a daily, sustained manner as citizens of our host communities abroad," said Julia Douthwaite, Notre Dame's assis­tant provost for international studies. "We are delighted with the ongoing high rate of interest in international study, especially with our emphasis on local cul­tural integration. This outcome is the result of much collabora­tion among faculty, administra­tors and students anchored in the excellent language and area studies curriculum, as well as programs that allow students to receive credit and continue progress toward graduation while studying in one of 17 countries worldwide." 
Election polls imperfect, says prof 
Special to The Observer 
Current polls tell us that Sen. Hillary Clinton clearly is the fron­trunner for the Democratic nomi­nation, and Rudy Giuliani has taken the lead among Republican candidates. But with a year to go before elections, can we be sure that these will be the two names on the ballot for presi­dent? 
Not necessarily, according to Notre Dame political scientist Darren Davis, a nationally recog­nized expert in public opinion, elections and voting behavior and author of "Negative Liberty: Public Opinion and the Terrorist Attack'> on America." 
"Public opinion polls are an indispensable resource in elec­tions and governance, and ifdone correctly, provide a reliable snap­shot of how the public perceives candidates and issues," says Davis. 
"However, without a complete understanding of how voters reach their decisions, the factors that impinge upon those deci­sions, and equally important, the underlying methodology of opin­ion surveys, polling results can be -and often are -misleading. It is true that one can get public opinion polls to say what people want them to say." 
Consider the record of some previous Democratic year-ahead polls:
+ In November 1971, surveys predicted that Democrats would nominate Edward Kennedy or Edwin Muskie. In 1972, the nominee was George McGovern. 
+In November 1975, Kennedy again was predicted the Democratic nominee; but in 1976, Jimmy Carter was nominated. 
+ In early November 1979, polls predicted that Kennedy would defeat Carter for the Democratic nomination-he did­n't. 
+ 
In 1987, Jesse Jackson was the frontrunner, yet in 1988, Michael Dukakis was the nomi­nee. 

+ 
In 1991, Mario Cuomo was the predicted nominee, yet Bill Ointon was the actual nominee. 


For reasons not entirely clear, year-ahead polls on the Republican side usually are cor­rect. 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Week of sociology celebrated at SMC 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
It's sociology week at Saint Mary's, student body vice presi­dent Kelly Payne told members of the Board of Governance at their meeting Monday. Sociology events will be held every day this week. 
On Tuesday, Dr. Mary Corcoran, from the National University of Ireland, Maynooth, will give a lecture called "From Dozy Villages to Dormitory Suburbs: the Impact of Social Change on Everyday Life in Ireland." It will be held in the Warner Conference Room from 3:30 to 4:30p.m. 
The film "Hotel Rwanda" will be shown Wednesday at 7 p.m. in room 152 of Regina Hall. 
Jacqueline Hogan of Bradley University will deliver a lecture on "Touring the Nation: Gender, Race and Nation in Travel Brochures." It will be in the Warner Conference Room Thursday at 3:30p.m. 
There will be a talk on "Overcoming Global Poverty: Is Globalization the Problem or the Solution?" Friday at 12 p.m. It will be held in the Student Center conference room. 
In other BOG news: 
+ Cassie Quaglia, president of 
the Residence Hall Association, said the new National Residence Hall Honorary is accepting nom­inations. The National Residence Hall Honorary is an honor society formed to recog­nize people who have positively influenced residence life, she said. Students can send in nomi­nations through e-mail or do so in the atrium of the Student Center. Nominations will be accepted through Nov. 20. 
+ 
Quaglia also said Nov. 16 is the final day for room changes.

+ 
Hall Spirit Week will also be celebrated this week, Quaglia said. There will be events in one of the halls every day this week. 

+ 
Courtney Kennedy, secre­tary treasurer, said the Saint Mary's Shirt will be unveiled and distributed Thursday at 8 


p.m. in the Student Center. Shirts will also be distributed Friday. A limited number of extra shirts will be sold on Friday.
+ Theology on Fire will be held in the Student Center at 8 
p.m. Wednesday, said missions coordinator Mary Frantz. The topic will be, "Who is my Neighbor?" The speakers will be Kevin McDonnell, a professor of philosophy, and Lori Pinter, a 1984 Saint Mary's graduate. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at 
acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 13, 2007 
Festival 
continued from page I 
"Each writP.r is very talent­ed, but also very accessi­ble," Baker said. 
Most of the authors invit­ed to the festival will read portions of their work and answer questions. 
"NDLF is an amazing opportunity for any ND stu­dent because of its focus on dose interaction between the writers and the audi­ence," Baker said. 
The festival has featured prominent writers. Past participants include Buzz Bissingnr, author of "Friday Night Lights," Norman Mailer. innovator of creative nonfiction, and prominent playwright Tennessee Williams. 
In addition to hearing the authors read, students will also be able to rfHtd their own work and receive fend­back from the authors and their pnnrs. 
All students are welcome to attend the festival's ses­sions, Baker said. 
"While Arts and Letters majors will certainly enjoy hearing authors speak abo u t t h e i r craft, we designed the festival to be enjoyable for everyone," she 
Life 
continued from page I 
dent's hearts," she said, "but they don't take a stand." 
Hyan said she doesn't think students are supported to take a stand on pro-life issuos on campus. 
"It's hard for people to take a stand on something that thny're not encouraged to tako a stand on," slw said. 
There are about f'iftfwn students who are visibly active in the group. Albright said. 
"We'rn definitely presnnt, and dnlinitnly evident," she said. 
Respect Life Week Events: 
+ Tu1~sday, Nov. 13 ­Pray the Living Hosary at 
X:30 p.m. on Library Grmm. 
+ 
WPdnesday. Nov. 14 ­Pro-Life speakBr Lisa Everett will speak at 7 p.m. in Vander Vnnnnt Theater in the Student Cnnter. 

+ 
Thursday, Nov. 15 ­Showing of "It's a Wonderful Life" at Hp.m. in Vander 


Vennet  Theater  in  the  
Student CnntPr.  
+ Friday. Nov. 1(J  - Day  

of Silence to recognize all the lives that haven't been rospectnd. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO I @saintmarys.edu 

Write for News. Submit resume and samples to Karen at obsnews@ nd.edu* 

said. 
Baker said she expects many students to attend because of changes made to the festival. Since 1967, the event has taken place in February. While students had strong interest in the festival, it was difficult to get them out in the cold winter weather to attend festival events, she said. 
To attract bigger crowds, the Student Union Board (SUB) decided to change its scheduling so that one or two authors are invited each week for a month, she said. The workshops will now be held during the afternoons rather than evenings, as they were in recent years. 
This event is being hosted by SUB and the Creative Writing Program. 
Patricia Smith will answer questions at 4 p.m. Tuesday in Montgomery Auditorium in LaFortune. Lydia Davis will have a question-and­answer session Thursday at 5 p.m. in the McNeil Hoom followed by a reading at 8 p.m. 
All events are free and open to the public. A sched­ule of events can be found at the SUB Web site. 
Contact Becca LaLonde at rlalonde@hcc-nd.edu 
Arrests 
continued from page. I 
taken to St. Joseph County Jail. 
PolicH also issued 22 arrest tickel<> to adults for alcohol-relat­ed ommses like minor consump­tion or possflssion of alcohol. 
Eight pHoplfl were asked to leave Notre Dame Stadium for violating stadium rules regarding alcohol, Johnson said. Alcohol is prohibited within the stadium. 
During the game, four people were issued no trespass notices for failing to follow University ruins regarding tailgating, he said. Tailgating is prohibited dur­ing the game. 
Johnson said NDSP and area police forces will be present for the final horne football game against Duke on 'Nov. 17. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
Club 
continued from page I 
energy issues have led the group to an afliliation with the Center for Social Concerns, Long said. 
So far, members have worked to create environmental commission­ers in each hall and improve dorm recycling, Long said. 
The relationship between the administration and GreeNO has produced a number of environ­mental programs and events, Long and Kelly said. 
The coordinated recycling eflorl'> during several home football games are one example, Kelly said. 
Students from all fields and spe­cialties are encouraged to join GreeNO, Long said. 
"No solution will be successful with just economists or just engi­neers, which is why our club is so important," she said. 
The group's club status is still pending. Long said she and other !,'Toup leaders are hopeful it will be approved. This will holp the group increase involvement and have a stronger infrastructure, she said. It will also allow the group to tap into Student Activities money. 
The various energy and environ­mental topics of the group are the focuses of the smaller sub-groups within the larger GreeNO group. The subgroups allow students to focus on areas about which they are most passionato, Long said. 
"The issue [of energy[ is so huge to tackle, it's important to break it up into !,'Toups," GreeND vice pres­ident Collmm Kelly said. 
Interest in energy and environ­mental issues is continuing to grow on campus, and the global interest shows no signs of stopping, said Energy Policy Club chair Jackie Mullen. 
The leaders of GreeND hope their club can bn a forum for these important issues. 
"Thi<> is an i'isue for our genera­tion," Long said. "A'i I study more, I learn that this does not not afl'ect anyone." 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntayloO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Tlloug/1t you couldn't study a/Jroad? Don't waut to miss a semester 011 campus? 

Study Abroad this Summer through ND! 
Vienna, Austria 

Paris, France Dublin, Ireland Rome, Italy Puebla, Mexico Amsterdam, Netherlands Toledo, Spain Taipei, Taiwan Kampala, Uganda London, United Kingdom 
Come to an information session to learn more... 
Thursday, November 15, 2007 5:00pm 126 DeBartolo 
Application deadline is March 1, 2008 (except Kampala and London) http://www.nd.edu/-ois/Apply 

HflfT _ cppj _com­


ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November 13, 2007 Cotv\PILED f:RoM THE OBSERVERS \VlRE SERV1CES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Security contractor shoots taxi driver 
BAGHDAD -A private security guard fatally shot an Iraqi taxi driver, Iraqi officials said Monday, in the latest incident involving what Iraqis believe are unprovoked killings by contractors hired to protect Americans. 
A spokesman for DynCorp International, a Falls Church, Va.-based company, said one of its security teams opened fire Saturday to disable a vehicle in Baghdad after it approached a convoy in a threatening man­ner. 
"Our team had reported that they believed no one was injured. So although there were conflicting reports, we are trying to deter­mine if the incidents are one and the same,"said Gregory Lagana, DynCorp's sen­ior vice president for communications. 
U.N. envoy to investigate death count 
YANGON, Myanmar -A U.N. human rights envoy arrived Sunday in Myanmar on a mission to get inside the country's prisons to determine the numbers of people killed and detained since the military regime's crackdown on pro-democ­racy protesters. 
Paulo Sergio Pinheiro, the U.N.'s independent rights investigator for Myanmar, had been barmd from visiting the country since November 2003. He has said he will abandon his visit unless he gets full support from the junta. 
"Ifthey don't give me full cooperation, I'll go to the plane, and I'll go out," he said recently after the government gave him a green light to visit the country for five days. 
Pinheiro has submitted a proposed itinerary filr his visit to the Myanmar government, which was still bPing "fine-tuned," said Aye Win, a U.N. spokesman in Myanmar. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Georgia governor prays for rain 
ATLANTA -As Georgia descends deeper into drought, Gov. Sonny Perdue has ordered water restrictions, launched a legal battle and asked President Bush for help. On Tuesday, the governor will call on a higher power. 
He will join lawmakers and ministers on the steps of the state Capitol to pray for rain. 
While public prayer vigils might raise eye­brows in other parts of the nation, they are mostly shrugged off in the Bible Belt, where turning to the heavens for help is common and sometimes even politically expedient. 
"Christianity has more of a pla~e in the culture here than in some other region," said Ray Van Neste, a professor of Christian studies at Union University in Jackson, Tenn. "And it's only natural, in a way, for the pub­lic to pray for rain." 
Teenagers mutilate acquaintance 
DETROIT-Two thrill-seeking teenagers stabbed an adult acquaintance, took a blow­torch to his corpse and threw his severed head into a river, prosecutors said Monday as they charged the pair. 
Canton High School senior Jean Pierre Orlewicz, 17, and Alexander James Letkemann, 18, ambushed 26-year-old Daniel Sorenson on Wednesday in a garage owned by Orlewicz's grandfather, Wayne County Prosecutor Kym Worthy said. A tarp had been spread on the floor, she said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Inmates protest prison conditions 
CROWN POINT, Ind. -A spate of lawsuits filed by inmates who contend filthy jail condi­tions spread staph infections behind bars are meeting with mixed court rulings so far. 
Some 25 lawsuits have been filed since late August by Lake and Porter county jail inmates, and nearly all of the cases in which federal judges have ruled so far have been dismissed. 
Only four of the 25 suing inmates -two each at each jail-claim to have gotten staph. 
All of the inmates' lawsuits are handwritten and complain of the same conditions, includ­ing that inmates are exposed to staph infec­tions and are forced to use dirty showers and clothes. 
~ALESTINE 

Commemorative rally ends in murder 
Seven civilians killed, dozens injured by Hamas in demonstration ofover 250,000 
Associated Press 
GAZA CITY -A rally of 
more than 250,000 Fatah 
supporters ended in may­
hem Monday, with Hamas 
police opening fire and 
protesters hurling rocks or 
running for cover. Seven 
civilians were killed and 
dozens were wounded in 
the violence between 
Palestinian factions. 
The demonstration in a 
Gaza City square, marking 
the Nov. 11, 2004 death of 
iconic Palestinian leader 
Yasser Arafat, posed the 
strongest challenge to 
Hamas rule in Gaza since 
the Islamic militant group 
seized the impoverished 
territory by force in June. 
The images of Hamas 
policemen facing off 
against large groups of 
rock-throwers challenged 
Hamas' claim that it has 
established tight control. 
Fatah's unexpected show 
of strength was also its 
most persuasive argument 
that its leader, moderate 
Palestinian President 
Mahmoud Abbas, has a 
mandate to renew peace­
making with Israel at a 
U.S.-hosted Mideast confer­
ence in Maryland later this 
month. 
The march started out 
peacefully after 
Palestinians in buses, on 

foot and on donkey carts repercussions by Hamas. uniforms across an inter­men had been posted on 
streamed into a large While he lay on the ground section. high-rise buildings over­
sandy lot by the waiting for help, he said he The Fatah supporters looking the rally to shoot at 
Mediterranean. Waving saw a man in a wheelchair pelted Hamas troops with Hamas police officers as a 
yellow Fatah flags, the trying to hide near a wall. stones, surging forward planned provocation. 
crowd cheered and whis­In one confrontation, an even as they were met by Hamas said five of its 
tled as the movement's Associated Press reporter heavy bursts of gunfire. policemen were wounded 
remaining leaders in Gaza observed about 30 Hamas One Hamas policeman by sniper fire from the roof 
-most had fled to the policemen -some posted dropped to one knee for of the pro-Fatah AI Azhar 
West Bank in June -deliv­on the rooftop of a govern­better aim. At one point, a University near the rally. 
ered hopeful speeches ment ministry, others on young stone-thrower col­"If Hamas was planning 
about a comeback. the streets below -firing lapsed and was carried off today's incidents, why 
But the rally quickly heavily for about 10 min­by others. would we have allowed the 
descended into chaos and utes. Some appeared to be Elsewhere, AP photogra­rally to take place?" Abu 
bursts of gunfire as the shooting over the heads of phers observed frantic Zuhri told a news confer­
crowd was beginning to Fatah stone-throwers while demonstrators comman­ence. 
leave. Fatah stone-throw­others were firing rand(}m­deering private cars to take Fatah denied the charge, 
ers clashed with armed ly. the wounded to hospitals. saying no armed men were 
Hamas policemen. In another, AP Television Medical officials said seven allowed at the rally. An AP 
"It was a big mess, and News footage showed hun­civilians were killed and 85 reporter saw 10 Fatah 
everyone was running for dreds of young Fatah people were wounded. gunmen being turned away 
cover," said a wounded 24-activists, some wrapped in Hamas spokesman Sami at the start of the rally. 
year-old demonstrator who yellow flags, facing off Abu Zuhri held Fatah Medical officials said none 
would give only his first against Hamas police in responsible for the vio­of the dead was a Hamas . name, Farouk, for fear of black or blue-camouflage lence, saying Fatah gun-policeman . 

Teen plotter linked to Finnish shooter 
Associated Press had communicated online with other," Farrell said. "Obviously, 
Dillon Cossey, 14, who was arrested Columbine was a shared topic of 
PHILADELPHIA -A teenager who in October on suspicion of preparing interest." admitted plotting a school attack an attack at Plymouth Whitemarsh The two met through the YouTube near Philadelphia had communicat­High School in suburban video-sharing site, Farrell said. They ed online about the Columbine mas­Philadelphia. The attack never took also exchanged posts on a Web site sacre with a teenage outcast who place. dedicated to the Columbine killers, killed eight people and himself in a Cossey's attorney, J. David Farrell, traded e-mail and likely chatted on high school shooting in Finland, the said that he showed Auvinen's certain Web sites, he said. Pennsylvania boy's attorney said online screen name to the Auvinen killed six students, a Monday. Pennsylvania boy Monday and that nurse and the principal Wednesday 
But the teen was "horrified" when his client remembered communicat­in Tuusula, about 30 miles north of he found out about the Finnish ing with the Finnish teen in August the Finnish capital, Helsinki. He attack and said he never would have or September about video games then shot himself in the head and suspected him of following through and the 1999 Columbine massacre died hours later at a hospital. _ with a violent act, the attorney said. in Colorado and exchanging videos Police in Finland said they had not 
Finnish police said material seized they found on the Internet. yet been in contact with their U.S. from the computer of Pekka-Eric "They had discussed certain video colleagues about a possible link Auvinen suggests the 18-year-old games and shared videos with each between the two teens. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, November 13, 2007 
Duncan 
continued from page l 
wnlH~am that has been snl up on one side of McGlinn that rnf'roshns every 10 seconds with tlw construction devel­opments." 
Hnsidence Life plans to relieve overcrowding in male dorms with the conslruetion of Duncan, which will house approximately 234 men on thrnn lnvnls, Shoup said Friday. 
"We're glad to see that the overcrowding issue will be solvnd by mov­

from those students selected for the initial round. Students will be selected in groups as ali-or-none in order to ensure that groups of friends are not split up. 
"To win this lottery, we take you in as a group, just like in the football tickets lottery," Shoup said. 
Selection in the initial lot­tery, however, will not be binding. If students decide to decline their winning num­bers for whatever reason, they will be permitted to do so. 
For those winning students 
who decide 
to remain 
in the lot­

ing some beds tery, the
"We're glad to see that 
out of lmale second
the overcrowding issue 
dormsl and phase of moving them will be solved by moving the lottery into Duncan," process
some beds out of/male
he said. will take
dorms/ and into Duncan." 
Students are place Feb. currently living 25, which in forced quads Jeff Shoup will model designed to the lottery
Director of Residence Life 
accommodate only three stu­dents and forced five-per­son rooms deigned to accom­modate four students, he said. 
"Fortunately, that will change soon," he said. 
During the past few years, an inf'lux in male students choosing to remain on cam­pus has forced HesLife to convert some of the study lounges in Siegfried, Knott, Keough and O'Neill halls into quads and triples. Duncan will restore three of these study lounges in each dorm. Othor dorms operating at full capacity, such as Dillon, Morrissey, Alumni and Zahm, will also see more free space thanks to Duncan. 
The Obsnrver reported Aug. ;{ 1 that the University's 27 residence halls are at 104 
system 
that most 
on-campus 

dorms use for room selections. Students will be able to choose their rooms based on numerical rankings within the winning numbers. They will be divid­ed into separate groups depending on the type of room their groups selected on their initial application. 
"We're still trying to devel­op the technology that ranks the groups of people selected to bid for singles, doubles, super-quads, etc. in Duncan for the second round," said Shoup. 
Hegistration for room selec­tions for all other dorms on campus will take place short­ly after the first phase of Duncan's lottery, lasting from Feb. 11 to Feb. 25. This is several weeks earlier than in 
Pope to Inake first U.S. delegation 
Associated Press 

BALTlMOHE Pope Benedict XVI will travel to the United States for the first time as pontiff next year to meet with President Bush, address the United Nations and visit ground zero, a Vatican official told American bishops Monday. 
The pope also will celebrate Mass at the new Nationals Park stadium and Yankee Stadium during the April 15­20 visit to Washington and New York, according to Archbishop Pietro Sambi, Vatican ambassador to the United States. 
The announcement comes as the 67 million-member American church is grappling with a priest shortage and an often alienated flock, and is still recovering from the clergy sex abuse crisis. American dioceses have paid more than $2 billion in settlements with victims since 1950. 
"It's a shot in the arm for the U.S. Catholic Church which is enduring one of the most protracted crises in its history," said Scott Appleby, a University of Notre Dame his­torian who specializes in reli­gion. He said the Catholic community in the United States "badly needs a renewed sense of its own vitality and its historic legacy in the country." 
Benedict has dedicated his pontificate to fighting secular­ism and strengthening Catholic faith, and his visit reflects those priorities. 
Benedict will convene sepa­rate national meetings with Homan Catholic priests, Catholic university presidents and diocesan religious educa­tors, and leaders of other reli­gious groups. 
Traditional American Catholics -have long com­plained that Catholic universi­ties have lost their religious identity. 
The Archdiocese of Boston, where the abuse crisis erupt­ed in 2002, and bishops from around the country had invit­ed Benedict to visit. But Bishop William Skylstad, head of the bishops' conference, said the Vatican limited the visit to two cities to "conserve (Benedict's) energy." 
The visit coincides with the third anniversary of Benedict's election to succeed Pope John Paul II on April 19, 2005. 
John Paul's five visits to the United States during his pon­tificate were major events. When he arrived at New York's Madison Square Garden in 1979, a school band wel­comed him with the theme from "Hocky." The late pon­tiff's charisma and personal warmth attracted tens of thousands of people to his appearances and buoyed the American church. 
Benedict, a theologian, spent more than two decades as the Vatican's chief orthodoxy watchdog before becoming pope, earning a reputation ­considered unfair by his sup­porters -as a dour enforcer of Catholic teaching. 
"I don't think he is going to make the sort of impact John Paul did. Benedict can't do it and doesn't want to do it," said James Hitchcock, a Catholic historian from St. Louis University. "I think it's a very different kind of appeal." 
Benedict will also be in the United States during a presi­dential election year, and his public events could inadver­tently become public relations vehicles for candidates or political parties. 
Benedict's pilgrimage to the site of the Sept. 11, 2001 , ter­rorist attacks in New York is meant to show "solidarity with those who have died, with their families and with all those who wish an end of vio­lence and in the search of peace," Sambi said. 
However, the site also has become linked in the pu9lie mind with former New York Mayor Hudolph Giuliani, a leading candidate for the Hepublican presidential nomi­nation. 
Giuliani, a Catholic, has been married three times and supports abortion rights, and St. Louis Archbishop Haymond Burke has said he would deny Holy Communion to the candi­date. 
Chris Duncan, chairman of the political science depart­ment at the University of Dayton, a Marianist school in Ohio, said the ground zero visit could hurt Giuliani's rela­tions with the Hepublican Party's important conservative Christian base by "calling spe­cific attention to the fact that he's living well outside of the faith." 
The pope's visit will begin with an April 16 reception with Bush at the White House, followed the next day by Mass at Nationals Park and sepa­rate meetings with Catholic educators and leaders of other faiths. 
Bush met the pope for the first time in June, at the Vatican. The president used that occasion to defend his humanitarian record to the pope, who expressed concern about Iraq. 
percent capacity, This means bods have been squeezed into forced triples, forced doubles and converted study spaces in all 13 women's dorms and most of the men's residence halls. 
Tho dorms have been above 100 percent capacity for the past f'ive or six years, said Scott Kachmarik, associate 
direetor of Hesidence l.ifn. 
Tlw Aug. 31 report also noted that the University has plans to build another new male rnsidnnce hall and two new fnmaln resi­dencn halls, each of' which 
use the sec­

"7b win this lottery, we 
ond phase of

take you in as a group, 
the lotteryjust like in the football as a back-up 
tickets lottery." plan for resi­
dents in other dorms 

Jeff Shoup 
who might Director of Residence Life not have got-
will supply about 250 new heds. 
Whnn completed, Duncan will otTer residents a variety of rooms -ineluding singles, doubles, triples, and quad. Some dorm rooms, called "super-doubles" and "supor­quads." will have bay win­dows and personal bathroom l'a!:ilitins. 

Shoup said the plan to move studnnts into Duncan is two­phased. Students will have from Jan. 2S to Feb. 7 to fill out applications to enter the first phase of the Duncan llall lottery. Thny must indicate which type of room they want to live in and the names ol' tho people with whom they want to live. 
Then, on Feb. S, Hosidence Lifo officers will draw 150 to 160 winning lottnry tickets 
previous years and was a move designed as a contin­gency plan in case the first phase of the Duncan lottery was unsuccessful, Shoup said. 
"II' fewer than 150 people apply for the first round, then we will probably end up fill­ing the majority of spaces with freshmen or transfers," he said. "However, we will also 
ARABIC I:JJ{OGRAM INFOR1\1ATION s:ESSION 
• 
Lean1 about Notre Dame's Arabic Progt·am 

• 
Career Opportunities in Business, 1\tledia, Govet·nment 

• 
lVlcet Arabic 1\'la,jors and the Faculty 



ten the room 
picks they 

wanted dur­ing the regular dorm room selection." 
Shoup added that if this were to happen, students will be able to negotiate with their rectors to allow some flexibility in achieving the most desirable plan for them. 
Shoup did not say whether any students would be forced to move from their previous residence hall to Duncan IIall. 
Dorm features such as mas­cot, hall tax figures, dorm color, and sister dorms have not been determined, he said. 
!\ Hesidence Life committee is looking into how to select Hesident Assistants for Duncan llall, Shoup said. 
~: 

Come, have some Pizza and a drink! 


\Vcdncsday. November 14 at 5 Pl\1 131 Decio Hall 
The Program in Arabic and l\'liddlc East Studies Classics Department 631-7195 http://classics.nd.cdu 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 
r----------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Tuesday, November 13, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,987.55 -55.19
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composife Volume: 
1,623 78 1,752 1,189,699,722 
AMEX....• ,;,~l~I-IIJ}Iltllliilill:llllil!jjjl:il.llillll' 

NASDAQ 13 -43.81 
S&P 500 1,439.18 -14.52 
NIKKEI (Tok}lo,lll,l~iiiJI,II~I!III:!'!!I!NIIlll 
FTSE 100 (London) 6,337.90 +33.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE E*TRADE FINL CORP (ETFC) -58.67 -5.04 3.55 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -2.54 -1.27 48.73 S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.99 -1.44 143.70 CITIGROUP INC (C) +1.42 +0.47 33.57 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.33 -0.014 4.225 13-WEEK BILL +0.32 +0.010 3.170 30-YEAR BOND -0.17 -0.008 4.602 5-YEAR NOTE -0.13 -0.005 3.756 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.70 94.62 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -27.00 807.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.43 83.75 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 109.9350 EURO 0.6870 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9652 BRITISH POUND 0.4858 
IN BRIEF Senate examines rating system 
WASHINGTON -The nation's largest tobacco company knew as early as the 1970s that smokers of light cigarettes took larger puffs that delivered greater amounts of tar, according to a newly released memo. 
The 1975 Philip Morris USA correspon­dence was released by the Senate Commerce Committee in advance of a hear­ing Tuesday examining the rating system that allows tobacco companies to market cigarettes as regular, light or ultra-light. 
The current rating system gives smokers a false sense that cigarettes with less tar and nicotine are healthier, according to a memo­randum produced by Democratic congres­sional staffers. 
The Federal Trade Commission allows companies to make statements about tar and nicotine levels as long as they're based on a standardized system. That system uses a machine that smokes every cigarette the same way. 
Miners protest working conditions 
MEXICO CITY -Employees at Mexico's largest copper mine are exposed to danger­ous levels of mineral dust and acid mist, according to a report released Monday by the union whose strike has idled the mine since July. 
Representatives of Mexico's National Mining and Metal Workers Union say they are prepared to strike until Grupo Mexico SAB agrees to conduct a "massive cleanup operation" and implement safety and train­ing programs. The union will send the report to President Felipe Calderon. 
About 1,300 workers went on strike July 30 to protest health and safety conditions at the open-pit Cananea copper mine 30 miles south of the Arizona border in the north­western Mexican state of Sonora. 
A telephone call left with Grupo Mexico seeking comment Monday was not immedi­ately returned. In the past, the company has said it is willing to negotiate health and safe­ty issues to end the strike. 
Gore joins in environmental efforts 
Former vice president continues work on global warming in the private sector 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -AI Gore announced Monday he's joining Silicon Valley's most prestigious venture capital firm to help the private sector take on global warming, and perhaps make him­self some money. 
The Nobel Peace Prize winner and former vice president joins Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers as it and dozens of other venture firms headquar­tered in Silicon Valley expand beyond software, computer hardware, the Internet and biotechnolo­gy to so-called "clean­tech" investments world­wide. 
In a phone interview Monday, Gore praised the private sector for innova­tions in alternative ener­gy, particularly solar power. He said the public sector was "catching up." 
Gore said political sys­tem can appear to move "at a snail's pace." 

"But when it crosses a tipping point, it can move at lightning speed. We're feeling that gear shift occur right now, and ... we want to make sure the markets have the infor­mation and analytic sys­erating policy solutions to Perkins partner John out wells. tems in place to move at the climate crisis. Doerr announced he's North American and lightning speed," Gore The donation does not joining the advisory board European venture capital­said. include stock options. of Generation Investment ists invested $1.9 billion 
Gore, who starred in Typically, a tiny fraction Management, the $1 bil­in clean-tech companies the Academy Award-win­of a venture capitalist's lion investment firm that in the first half of 2007, a ning global warming doc­compensation is salary; Gore founded with David 10 percent increase from umentary, "An the vast majority of Blood, who previously the first half 2006, Inconvenient Truth," is wealth comes from sale of managed $325 billion in according to Ann Arbor, also a senior adviser to stock options when the assets out of Goldman Mich.-based trade group Google Inc. and a mem­companies the firm Sachs' London office. Cleantech Network. ber of the board at Apple invests in are sold to the Clean technology Last year, Menlo Park­Inc. public. encompasses alternative based Kleiner Perkins 
Gore promised to "It's one of the benefits fuels, water purification, earmarked $100 million donate 100 percent of his of not being in the public renewable energy and of its $600 million invest­salary as a Kleiner sector anymore," Gore recycling programs and ment fund to startups that Perkins partner to the said with a laugh. · other eco-friendly initia­work on reducing carbon Alliance for Climate He wouldn't say how tives, and products rang­dioxide emissions. The Protection, the Palo Alto­much Kleiner Perkins was ing from electric cars to firm expects to dedicate based think tank he paying him. microbes that search for one-third of new funding founded to focus on accel-Also Monday, Kleiner oil in seemingly tapped-to clean tech by 2009. 

Airlines predict heavy holiday traffic 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The airline industry is urging Thanksgiving travelers to get to the airport extra early this year, and to expect longer-than-usual lines at security checkpoints, due to an anticipated 4 percent jump in passenger traffic. 
Domestic carriers are expected to fly roughly 27 million passengers worldwide over 12 days beginning Nov. 16, with planes about 90 per­cent full, the Air Transport Association said Monday. 
The anticipated uptick in demand comes as the industry struggles through a year of record-low punc­tuality. Through September, more than 24 percent of flights arrived late, according to the Transportation Department, the industry's worst on-time perform­ance since comparable data began being collected in 1995. 

In an attempt to minimize holiday travel hassles, some big airlines will add as many as 500 seasonal workers -some of whom had been furloughed -to usher fliers through airports, James May, presi­dent of the airline association said at a press conference. 
Airports, meanwhile, will be pre­pared to supply additional food and water to planes that get stuck on tarmacs for extended periods, said Greg Principato, president of the Airports Council International­North America. However, Principato urged travelers to con­sider taking public transportation to airports, since many parking lots will fill up quickly. 
"If you always expect the worst, then when (it doesn't come, every-one's) frame of mind will be much more positive," May said. 
Travel expert Terry Trippler com­mended the industry for trying to get out in front of the issue before the holiday onslaught. But -as usual -all it will take is some bad weather to seriously gum up com­mercial aviation traffic. 
"It's difficult at best to have smooth-running operations without weather problems," said Trippler, a longtime watcher of air fares who runs a travel Web site. 
The industry anticipates an aver­age of more than 2.5 million pas­sengers a day on the Wednesday before Thanksgiving, and the Sunday and Monday after the holi­day, according to ATA. Average daily passenger traffic this year is roughly 2.1 million, with load fac­tors of about 80 percent. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, November 13, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Campaign infinity 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIF.F Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINF.SS MANAGER Ken 1:owler Kyle West 
Ass1; MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 

A.~s·1; MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen L1ngley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joq King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey 
Chris Hinc 
SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 

PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AD DESIGN MANAGf.R: Kelly Gronli 
CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-'>323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. 1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du L1c and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advcrrisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advcrrisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chid: Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free c'Xpression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letter' to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quesrio11S rrgarding Observer policies shouU be direct~d to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'l1•e O~rvt'r {USPS ~')9 l..-4000) is publt•hed Munday through Friday ex'·~·1n during ~x;tm ;ttld v;~~·:uiotl l""rwds A JUhv.tripticm w'l11c Observer i1 $100 for nne ae~dcmic yea-r; $5S li•r nne ~~c:mct~ter. 
The t lbscrver is puhli•hc..l .u: POSTMASTI.R 

014 S~•uth IJiuinM Hall Stnd ilddl'WI corrections m· 
Nl)rtc Dame, IN -16556..0779 Thc:ObsctvCr 
f'cml\lkal po~tagc p.:ud itt Nmrc O.unc: P.O. Sqx779 
;\tid ~cklirinn..l m.~iling offiu:s. 02'1 South Dining H.UI 

Notre D:amc, IN 46556.()779 
The Ol»crvc:r is ll mcmhc:J of the A».oci.uc:d Press. All reprodtu:don nglu~ ate rcsc:rvrd 
This Nov. 4 marked a "pre-anniver­sary" of sorts: the one-year eve of the 2008 American presidential election. 
That's right, we still have 12 months to go. It's hard to believe, considering how many candidates have been campaign­ing for months already, some of them for a solid year or more. The country is showing a strong interest in the politi­cal process leading up to next year's elec­tion, but you can bet many of us will be sick of all the cam· paigning well before next November rolls around. And not without good reason: the history of presidential campaigns is one slow descent into mudslinging, polit­ical one-upping and a generous allowance for slander. 
I don't expect the trend of crafty poli­tics to reverse itself any time soon, and I don't think you can end badmouthing by decree. (You can never mandate an atti· tude change.) But the nearly unending cycle of political campaigning. with one election season blending into the next, is an identifiable phenomenon that creates unnecessary amounts of unhealthy com­petition among public servants. And we can change that. Shortening campaign length offers a tangible step for reducing slander and curbing the political rat race, as well as saving money and letting the candidates gain experience that actually counts. 
There are several arguments against condensing the campaign season. For one, critics point out, candidates cannot realistically expect to compete at the financial level unless they start fundrais­ing at the earliest possible date. Time equals money, and, in America, the cor­relation between campaign finance totals and party nomination is incredibly strong. Unless you're a private billionaire like Ross Perot, you cannot mount a 

James Dechant 
Foregone Conclusion 

campaign that meets the high cost of 
running for oflice without sizeable for­
tunes to fuel it. 
But supporting the finance race to see who can squeeze the most money out of pet interest groups only contributes to the problem. Every year the cost of cam· paigning rises, so politicians start raising and spending more and more money at increasingly earlier dates to stay afloat. This election, the combined spending of both major parties on political cam­paigns will total over a billion dollars. Imagine if even a portion of that money were put to other uses -like, say, healthcare, defense, education or light­ing poverty, just to name a few. 
By regulating fundraising through mandating a certain date before which formal campaign processes are restrict­ed, all the candidates would be on a level playing field. There would be no need to compete financially because everyone's timeframe would be equally abbreviated. Exploratory committees could save money spent on attempts to predict per­tinent national issues two years into the future. Transportation costs could be dramatically reduced. 
Of course, many people consider the fundraising experience a candidate gains invaluable for a future presidential role, and apply the same argument to time spent stumping and debating. That might be true, but I would rather see a candi­date earn practical knowledge in his or her current post than learn how to out­campaign and out-fundraise other politi­cians How does that prepare you to bet­ter lead the nation? 
We need the campaign process to decide the candidate best suited to run the country, absolutely, and I don't encourage doing away with it altogether. But no matter how much you talk about running a clean campaign: in the end, it's a direct competition pitting you against others. I'd prefer a candidate who gains an extra year of experience serving as senator or governor -posts where you learn to work with people, not against them -over one who shows 
political chops on the rough and tumble 
campaign trail. The presidency demands 
not catering to spneilic groups, but cnmt­
ing solutions that benefit the nation in its 
entirety. 
This ideology of placing so much value 
on direct competition, rather than on 
mutual compromise and working 
towards a common goal, says a lot about 
the presidency's attitudn toward foreign 
policy. If America has learned anything 
about unilateralism in the past decade ­
and while we're at it, the past century­
it should know the value of eooperation. 
Finally, some daim that two-year-plus campaigns really let us get to know the candidates better. This bogs a simple response: No. Again, I'd rather become acquainted with a candidate through his or her strong record of service in the Senate, state government or elsewhere than know them by what we "learn" in campaigns. Long eleetion processes pull up meaningless faets that just serve up fodder for comedy routines and tabloids. Really, what has this campaign taught us so far? Hillary likes Coline Dion, Giuliani had numerous divorces and Dennis Kucinieh has a killer smile. There's more, of course, but what have we learned that absolutely demands two solid years of' campaigning? 
Candidates today have no option but to stick with the precedent and initiate their campaigns ludicrously early. The whole process wastes time and money that could be used for better purposes. Change the precedent, compact the entire election process to fit within a year (or less) and save us all a lot of mudslinging. 
James Dechant has schemes ofcreat­ing a planning party with the express purpose ofresearching the possibility of forming an exploratory committee to pursue the option ofrunning for the 2024 election. Ifinterested in becoming part of history, contact him atjdechant@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY Karen Langley Janice Fitzpatrick Katie Peralta Michael Bryan What are you more excited Graphics Matt Gamber 
about: 

Matt Hudson Scene "Mix a little foolishness with
Notre Dame Hockey or 

your prudence: It's good to be silly 
Viewpoint Chris McGrady 
Notre Dame Basketball? at the right moment. " 
Kara King 
Horace Roman poet

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. • at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, November 13, 2007 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Burger King pays fair wages 
The letter published on Nov. 8 on Nov. 5 that no money ever passed to {"Burger King ignores slavery in their the workers under the McDonald's fields"), unfairly dismisses Burger King agreement, and that the Taco Bell Corp.'s serious and important commit­agreement is now moot. ment to worker dignity, while missing The letter also ignored Burger King the facts regarding payments from Taco Corp.'s clear refusal to do business with Bell and McDonald's to the Coalition of any suppliers guilty of worker abuse and Immokalee Workers (CIW). labor law violations. During more than 
Tomato pickers fill their buckets each two years of negotiation, the CIW failed day for Florida farm employers, who in to provide Burger King with the name or turn sell those tomatoes to brokers and location of one supplier in Immokalee suppliers of major retail and fast food engaged in serious violations of the law. chains. In most cases, the workers do We are eager to do our part to improve not pick tomatoes for any specific cus­the lives ofthe Florida farm workers, tomer -that sorting happens days later and we remain open to working with the at the re-packer. Florida tomato pickers CIW and others in furtherance of this are paid an average of$12.46 per hour goal. Our substantive offers of enforce­at the time of picking, according to ment, charitable contributions and 2006-2007 payroll records. Ifthe penny­worker retraining remain on the table per-pound arrangement described in the as a meaningful starting point for letter actually existed, the farm workers addressing the conditions facing the would already be enjoying higher wages Florida farm workers. Regardless, our for picking tomatoes, including some offers of assistance have been rejected tomatoes destined for Burger King. by the CIW. 
Nevertheless, the strict confidentiality Fundamental respect for all workers surrounding the details of Taco Bell's along our supply chain is part of our and McDonald's payments to the CIW corporate conscience; our value system makes it impossible to determine who is is incompatible with the CIW's demand benefitting from the payments. In fact, that we simply make payments and con­the Florida tomato growers who employ sider the job done. the CIW farm workers have refused to participate in the Taco Bell or Keva Silversmith McDonald's agreements due to serious Burger King Corporation legal concerns. The Florida tomato Miami, Fla. growers announced in a press release Nov. 12 
Campus, Catholicism and homosexuality 
With Notre Dame being a Catholic sexuals are called(. .. ) to a chaste life" institution of intellectual exchange, I (Letter to the Bishops of the Catholic would like to take this opportunity to Church on the Pastoral Care of partake in the ongoing dialogue regard­Homosexual Persons, 1986). ing the recent donning of the "Gay? Go While it is important and noble that to Hell" shirts by certain students on our beloved University expresses a campus. Contributors thus far have Catholic acceptance and 'inclusion' of all expressed sincere disappointment in of its members, I fmd it very disappoint­these men's choice of fashion ("Offering ing that it does not (openly) accept, a welcome home for all," November 9). include and 'voice its solidarity with' the Although I missed seeing the shirts, Church's teaching on the homosexual after reading this disagreeing response I orientation and lifestyle. Catholic teach­feel the need to address some of the ing states that it is not morally wrong for assertions put forth by its authors. a person to be of the homosexual orien­
In the aforementioned letter, Catholic tation as each person, regardless of sex­teaching was referenced to support of ual orientation, is created in the Image the arguments being made. The letter and Likeness of God. However, the C'ited Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger's (now Church does teach that homosexuality is Pope Benedict XVI) 1986 Letter to the intrinsically disordered and thus, for a Bishops of the Catholic Church on the person of homosexual orientation to act Pastoral Care of Homosexual Persons. on those homosexual tendencies, to While I do not see a problem in the embrace the homosexual lifestyle, is authors' use of this document, I do see a morally sinful. need to address the way Cardinal In lieu of these teachings, I would like Ratzinger's document was referenced. to return to the issue of the controversial 
First, it should be noted that the Latin shirts that stimulated this debate. Even title of this document is though their tactic may have been Homosexualitatis problema. Now, I do somewhat inaccurate and inappropri­not speak Latin, but it is pretty clear that ate, I do think that the wearers of these this title alludes to the certain problems shirts draw attention to the need to faced by homosexual persons. While the implement an approach to working with array of authors of the Nov. 9th letter the homosexual minority on campus were correct in noting that this docu­that is holistically Catholic. Such an ment calls for a respect for the "intrinsic approach should incorporate not only an dignity of each person," particularly inclusion of homosexual students, who homosexual persons, they failed to draw are created in the Image and Likeness of attention to another pivotal passage of God, but also offer instruction on how to this text: "Just as the Cross was central live (as we all should) in the Image and to the expression ofGod's redemptive Likeness of God, and it would take the love for us in Jesus, so the conformity of place of the current, woefully inade­the self-denial of homosexual men and quate one. women with the sacrifice of the Lord will constitute for them a source of self­MaryK. Daly giving which will save them from a way sophomore of life which constantly threatens to Welsh Family Hall destroy them. Christians who are homo-Nov. 12 
Appreciate football experience 
In response to Matthew Quering's Letter more than face value. You can see that by to the Editor ("Weis Should Pay," Nov. 12): looking at StubHub or eBay. I, as a contributing alum, am also disap­If you want to look at it in the framework pointed by this year's football program. I of investments, the athletic department have also spent hard-earned money to would be better served utilizing your ticket travel to games only to see the opponent by selling it to a non-student at face value. prevail. But I think that things aren't built It would yield a greater return for the pro­in a day and the team will return to glory. gram. It will also go to someone who gets Whether Weis is a great coach, or whether the intangible utility of excitement and joy the players are talented is not for me or that they are at a game, period. you to decide. Time will tell. Oh, and another thing, buying a ticket 
However, I am not here to argue about isn't an investment; it's a payment for serv­that. I do find some of Quering's logic to be ice. No one is forcing you to pay for the flawed. I think Quering should count his tickets, go to the games, or even be a stu­blessings that as a student, he even got to dent at Notre Dame. It's a privilege that see Notre Dame in a BCS game. All stu­very few have enjoyed, and I think you dents should also be grateful that they are should step back and consider yourself for­able to purchase tickets to the games at a tunate that you have this opportunity. 50 percent discount. You are guaranteed seats at the reduced price, whereas some Robert Russo alumni contribute annually and don't alumnus receive a single ticket. I would venture to Class of 2004 say that many ofthem are willing to pay Nov. 12 
CoMo lounge serves all 
In Viewpoint on Nov. 8, the letter Notre Dame so much more than home­"'Dreaded sign' shuts out study space" work. laments the fact that Coleman Morse's They indicate that Notre Dame should Student Lounge is frequently reserved for provide an alternative place for these the use of particular groups to the chagrin events to take place. Guess what? They of students trying to study there. I, myself, did. It's called the Coleman Morse Student am a frequent CoMo studier. I am also a Lounge. The Walsh Women's letter sug­Walsh Woman, a recent transfer from gests that there are only three places to North Quad; in fact, the proximity of study on campus: the (too far away and Walsh to CoMo was a serious factor in my too "bottom-of-St. Joe-Lake-ish"?) Library, moving dorms, due to my undying alle­LaFun and the CoMo Lounge. Allow me to giance to CoMo studying. offer some alternative suggestions. 
I think it is necessary to point out that 1. Walsh has at least two very nice study the CoMo Student Lounge was designed rooms in the basement, complete with and intended to be just that-a lounge. couches, tables, desks and the comfort of Its main purpose, originally, was to be a your own home. Most dorms do have con­place for students to relax, catch the news venient, comfortable places to study that or the game and to provide a place for are rarely utilized. various groups to use for their programs. 2. The Bond Library is quite Thomas Somewhere along the way, however, it Jeffersonian with its classic columns and became expected that everyone would academic feel. Plush leather couches are talk in their best library whisper in the a plus, and it is quiet and usually not lounge to accommodate students studying crowded. in this great room. Don't get me wrong, I 3. The East Lounge in the basement of appreciate a comfortable, quiet study LaFun is conveniently located in the stu­room as much as the next person, but the dent center, and yet generally respectfully Student Lounge's primary role is not a quiet and conducive to work. Please, feel study room. When the authors of the let­free to take advantage of the CoMo ter say that the only solution to their terri­Student Lounge when it is not being uti­ble plight of being kicked out of the "study lized, but be aware the next time you see room" is to "Destroy the signs and all they the "dreaded sign" that the "right" to entail," they are asking for an end to study there is not guaranteed, but is in Celebration Choir Christmas concerts, fact a secondary purpose of the room. multicultural events, Hall Dinners, RA retreats, CM Commissioner meetings, Elizabeth Stewart Sophomore Road Trip planning meetings senior and a whole host of events that enrich the Walsh Hall Notre Dame experience and make life at Nov.!! 
Too much Christmas 
I'm as fed up as the next Domer with the hypercommercialization of the birth of Our Lord. Like any good Domer, I have a ready solution: More Catholicism. The Church begins preparations for Christmas exactly four Sundays before the feast day with the season of Advent. By the laws of mathematics and the Gregorian calendar, this means Advent cannot start sooner than Nov. 27 nor later than Dec. 3. If we can confine our jovial merriment and frenzied consumerism to the appointed dates, we should be sick of the holiday at just the right time. 
In response to Katie Kohler;s column yesterday, where she laments that Christmas is over after she opens her presents and goes to Mass on Dec. 25, I would like to take this opportunity to remind the student body that the Christmas season continues until the Epiphany (Jan. 6, the 12th day of Christmas ... what, you thought it was just a song?). 
John Gorski 
sen10r 
Stanford Hall 
Nov. 12 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, November 13, 2007 

By TAE ANDREWS 

Scene F.Jiwr 
"Loyal Daughters and Sons" opens tonight in Washington llall. Using a snrins ol' monologues (vagina or other­wisn), dialogues and scenes that can ­and do -happnn at Notre Dame, the play opons a campus conversation about snxuality and sexual violencn. 
Playwright and producer Sarah Van Mills' script snaps as it moves along. It's concis1~ and to thn point in describing tho good, bad and ugly of campus hookup culturo in a complex panoramic mosaie of sex and sexuality. Originally ponrwd by Emily Weisbecker, about two-thirds ol' tlw script is repeated from last yoar's show. After <:o nd u cti n g in to rvinws last spring, Van Mills stories into about a page and a half of text," she said. "This is hard to do for two reasons. One, because its a lot of text to cut out, but more importantly, these are people's private stories. 1 want to make sure that I'm represent­ing their stories correctly, which can be hard when you have to cut so much detail out." 
On a campus known for its "work hard, play hard" party atmosphere, "Loyal Daughters and Sons" goes to lengths to shed light on the dark under­side of college life when some play .too hard or too rough. 
Hape and sexual violence are two recurring themes throughout the play. Van Mills and director Megan ()'Donoghue do an excellent job of pre­senting vignettes of cam­pus life that address these issues and remain 


inknd the rnmaining "Loyal Daughters Notre Dame-centric. ND third ovnr the summ1~r. students will no doubt
and Sons" 
adding new scenes to recognize commonplace keep tlw play current. campus occurrences such 
Much of the new matn­Nov. 12-16, 8 p.m. as a "walk of shame" skit, rial deals with the Tickets $5 at in which a performer phrasn "and sons, affects a hung-over air
LaFortune Box Office 
which was added to the 
play's title for this year's 
production. 
"Whnn I was writing nnw skits, I was always conscious of 'how <:an I add a male perspective to this'? Can I add a male perspective to this'?"' Van Mills said in an email Sunday night. "The male perspective has to bn included. This isn't one gen­dnr's issun." 
Slw said tlw wasons for the new title worn twofold: first, to include men who may havn ftdt alienated from the play, and socond, to acknowledge the direct rolo nwn play in many forms of sexual abuso. 
"Treating rape only as a women's issue rwglects the fact that men are most oftnn the perpetrators," she said. "Men have to address rape if there is ovnr going to be a real movement toward onding sexual violence." 
Van Mill also said that trimming the stories for length, while remaining true to their original sources also presented a challenge. 
"I havn to get somn pretty detailed 
and drudges around 
onstage as a used and 
discarded sexual object. 
"Loyal Daughters and­Sons" also features a substantial amount of time devoted to the "Notre Dame bubble" effect, in which harsh realities concerning the uglier parts of college life can sometimes take a while to seep into the consciousness of the student body. The plays attempts to burst that bubble of deluded apathy and ignorance with its graphic and sexual explicit descriptions of sexual violence. 
"Loyal Daughters and Sons" also addresses "blaming the victim," a phe­nomenon in which rape victims find themselves accused of either facilitating their own sexual assault or putting themselves in such a compromised posi­tion (e.g., an excessively inebriated state) that they somehow "deserve" their fate. 
One particularly powerful skit that is tough to watch involves an impression­able freshman girl being raped by a football player in library. Alone in the spotlight and her thoughts, three men 

in black sweatshirts close in on her as 
she cries and screams for help. 
The play's party scenes, filled with Solo cups, loud music and copious amounts of booze, highlight the key roles alcohol and drug abuse can play in illicit sexual encounters, both from the male and female perspectives. As one inebriated female victim puts it, "How can I call it 'rape' when I don't even know what happened?" 
Even in a play with such heavy mate­rial, "Loyal Daughters and Sons" still manages to work some humorous skits into the mix, including a song and dance musical parody of the song "It's All Right" dealing with parietals and a funny and creative Vagina Monologue. 
For the most part, "Loyal Sons and Daughters" features minimal props, opting for a mostly barren stage to bet­ter showcase the acting skills of the performers. However, the set does fea­ture a few distinctive props -Main Building's Golden Dome and the Basilica. 
One skit featuring an eccentric profes­sor makes good use of biting satire to discuss the hypocrisy of du Lac's pun­ishment for sexual offenses, claiming that rape and consensual sex are equated in eyes of du Lac, since both result in dismissal and expulsion from Notre Dame. 
The skits also establish Notre Dame 
as a "rape-prone campus" due to its 
perceived macho jock culture, homo­
phobia, binge drinking and lack of dis­
course about sexuality and violence. 
With such weighty subject matter, taking the material and making it their own presented quite a challenge for the cast members. However, director Megan O'Donoghue said the cast embraced the trying material rather than trying to distance themselves from it. 
"I think most of us came into the experience aware of play's nature," she said in an email. "My own approach and preparation, one that I imparted to my cast, was to connect with the mate­rial on some universally personal level. This way, even if I haven't had the exact experience as one of the mono­logues, I can find some aspect of what 
that character was experiencing 
through their fundamental emotions. In doing so, any actor's interpretation will be more honest and bring more dignity to the piece." 
Van Mill agreed, saying, "This show is extremely, emotionally draining. But the cause makes it all worth it." 
In between skits, the audience can hear the strains of several different arrangements of "Amazing Grace" which becomes a musical theme for the show. 
'"Amazing Grace' becamfl a motif for the show after Sarah and I developed our joint conenpt for 'Loyal Daughters and Sons," ()'Donoghue said. "Among the issues that we wanted to address, both realization and healing wore key. Plus, the obvious religious and spiritual presence here on campus is pretty much unavoidable. 'Amazing Grace' simply encompassed all three of these issues in a really beautiful, classic way that most people should be able to rec­ognize immediately." 
Senior performer Jordy Brooks voiced a similar sentiment. 
"It's always hard working with this material because all of the stories are based on interviews from the Notre Dame community, so they are all true accounts of what has happened on this campus," she said. "To prepare your­self, you really have to look at it as healing for everyone, and realize that no matter how hard it is, talking about these issues is incredibly important. 
"Because of the silence surrounding the issues of sexuality and sexual assault, Loyal Daughters is an incredi­bly important new tradition at Notre Dame, because it allows people who have been silenced to have a voice and brings the issue to the forefront of con­versation that many people would not have had before." 
Senior Huyen Nguyen summed up her experience as a performer in the show. 
"This has been a really amazing expe­rience for me," she said. " As NO stu­dents, I feel like we're so shflltered that we don't realize these kinds of things happen here in the ND bubble. Someone 's gotta tell these stories, and I'm glad I was able to be part of that." 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew 1 @nd.edu 

----------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, November 13, 2007 
page 11 

By LAURA MILLER 
Scene Writer 
The fact the Josh Turner has not won a Grammy or a CMA is a travesty. 
Admittedly Turner is still in the early days of his music career, but he has already been nominated for several prestigious awards. His career got off to a bright start in 2004 with the release of his first album. "Long Black Train," which earned him nominations at the CMA as well as a platinum certi­fication. 
llis next album, "Your Man," featured the title song "Your Man" as well as "Would You Go With Me," which both topped the country charts and broke into the U.S. pop charts. "Would You Go With Me" has maintained its popu­larity since its release in 2006, and Turner earned a nomination for it in Best Male Country Vocal Performance. 
This oft-nominated but never victori­ous male vocalist brings country back to its roots with his new album "Everything is Fine." His original style and heart-melting voice make the entire album a pleasant listen. Hailing from South Carolina, Turner creates music that re11ects a classic country 
tradition. 

Everything is Fine 
Josh Turner Label: MCA Nashville Recommended Tracks: "Rrecracker," "South Carolina Low Country'' and "Everything is Fine" 
While previous albums showcased his ability to produce excellent singles, this album is more round­ed. The CD, released two weeks ago, includes the single "Firecracker." 
Undoubtedly the high­light of the album, this song is energetic, positive and full of good-old-coun­try jamming. If you haven't heard this song yet, lind it. It has already hit No. 8 on the country charts only two weeks after the official 

By CASSIE BELEK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
After graduating from Notre Dame in 1991, Katie O'Connell, senior vice president of drama development at NBC Entertainment, did what so many other Notre Dame graduates do -she moved to Chicago to work at a job that she had interviewed for on cam­pus. 
In a few years, however, she decided to make the great leap from health eare consulting in the Midwest to show business on the West Coast. 
O'Connell returns to campus today to present "Developing Prime-Time Television" as part of the ongoing FTT Talks series. As she describes the development process from the moment a series is pitched to the moment it airs, she will show clips from various series currently on NBC as well as dailies from new pilots now in production. 
When O'Connell first moved to Los Angeles, she worked as an assistant at the talent agency Creative Artists Agency. It was an experience that was similar to "Entourage," she said dur­ing a telephone interview Friday. After her stint at the agency, she land­ed a job as a comedy development executive at CBS, which she said was a difficult jump to make. 
Next she was hired to run comedy development at Imagine Television, where she developed the Emmy Award-winning cult comedy "Arrested Development." 
''I'm partial to 'Arrested Development,"' O'Connell said. "I would say that's one of my favorites. That was a very fun, rewarding, really great experience." 
O'Connell eventually ended up at NBC, where she developed recent Emmy winner "30 Rock," as well as new series "Chuck," "Bionic Woman," "Life" and "Journeyman." 
O'Connell said her job focuses on everything leading up to the first air­ing of a series. Once a show has aired six to 13 episodes, the development department steps back and the cur­rent department takes over. But O'Connell said it is difficult to watch series she develops, like "Arrested Development," struggle for ratings. 
"It's just heartbreaking," she said. "The writers work so hard, and it just shows how hard the business is. And there's so many external factors that determine whether or not a show is successful, and you can't predict it. At some point you let go and hope that it connects with the audience." 
It 
release. 

Despite Turner's vocal excellence, he faces an obstacle that many country singers of today avoid. Turner's style is unabashedly country-western. His soundtrack is characterized more by banjos, guitars and bass than by elec­tric guitars and drums. 
While this appeals to the die-hard country fans, many of today's country listeners are actually pop-music con­verts. Thus, most prefer the stylings of artists such as Rascal Flatts and Carrie Underwood. 
These artists do a much better job blending the styles of country and pop ­sometimes to the detriment of both. Their music, however, usually turns out to be well-written and performed and is overwhelmingly popular for all audi­ences. 
Turner's music is at a disadvantage because it might be unappealing to those who aren't in touch with country culture. In an interview about his album, Turner said, "There's a lot of different kinds of songs on this record, but they're all a part of what I'm about. There's some great up-tempo country, fun kinda songs -there's some really great ballads, heartbreak songs, love songs." 
For the true country aficionado, no 
While studying at Notre Dame, O'Connell majored in American Studies and lived in Pasquerilla West before moving off cam­pus. She said that her favorite memories of 
Photo thanksforthemusic.com 

Josh Turner returns to country music's roots on "Everything is Fine." 
one says country like Josh Turner. His hit singles are undoubtedly some of the best songs in recent country history, and his newest album "Everything Is Fine" is also promising. Although it's unfortunate that Turner has not enjoyed the level of success that he per­haps deserves, his voice will give him a longevity that most singers don't enjoy. Even if he never wins a CMA award or a Grammy, 20 years from now you'll still be hearing his music. 
Contact Caidin Ferraro at cferrar1@nd.edu 
MATT HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

contacts. However, she also notes that it is possible to make it in the enter­tainment industry and in development without being an FTT 
major. 
"I think that what I do 

Notre Dame are just for a living is story­
"Developing Prime 

hanging out with telling," she said. "I look friends at their apart­Time Television" back at when I took a ments. Shakespeare class or "It wasn't sophisticat­looked at classic litera­
Katie O'Connell 

ed," she says. "It was ture. Anything that has just being together with Tuesday 7 p.m. to do with storytelling is friends at a moment of relevant to what I do
DPAC

time in your life when today." that's what you're sup-She said her advice for posed to be doing." students looking toward 
O'Connell was also at the entertainment Notre Dame for the 1988 National industry is obvious but important. Championship football season. "Go to as many movies as you can. 
"There's nothing that beats fall in Watch as many TV shows as you can," South Bend, Indiana and the tradition she said. "If you really want to get of football games and that sense of all into the business, educate yourself. the alumni coming," she said. "One of Start to formulate your taste and your my favorite memories is when we all opinions." went down to the Fiesta Bowl when "Developing Prime-Time Television" we won the national championship." will take place tonight at 7 p.m. at the 
As fond as her memories are of Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Notre Dame, O'Connell feels that she Performing Arts Center. The event is was at a disadvantage when graduat­free but ticketed. Call 574-631-2800 ing because the department of film, or go to the DPAC's Ticket Office to television and theatre didn't exist to reserve tickets. educate students about the entertain­ment industry and help them make Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November 13, 2007 
NBA 

Paul sinks game-winning layup to beat Nets 
into it," Paul said. "We showed a New Orleans controlled the
Jazz beat injured Kings; 

lot of light. The starters got us first two CJ,Uarters, but Jefferson 
AI, Nuggets top Cavs into that situation. Thankfully, scored 16 points -equaling the we were able to get us out of Hornets' total -as the Nets that situation." turned around the game in the
Associated Press 

Hichard Jefferson scored a third. 
1\AST BUTIIEHFOHD. N.J. -season-high 32 points for the New Jersey eventually went Thn Nnw Orlnans llorrwts still Nets, but he was shut out in the ahead by 11 on Wright's bucket arnn 't quitn surn how they won fourth quarter aftm a huge third. with under 5 minutes to play. this onn. Kidd finished with 14 points, 10 But Paul made a 3-pointer to 
Chris l>aul rnadn sure they assists and nine rebounds. trigger a 10-1 spurt that pulled rouldn 't losn it. "We had an eight-, nine-point the Hornets to 80-78 on David 
Paul made thn Liebreaking lead without me scoring in the West 's basket with 2:11 left. layup with 2.6 snconds left and fourth quarter. So obviously we The Nets still seemed safe after finislwd with a snason-high 27 were doing something right," Wright knocked down a jumper, points, loading lhn llornnts to an .Jnlli~rson said. "My job is to get and then Paul turned it over and S4-S2 victory ovnr the New my tnammates open. In the third missed a shot. But he followed .lersny Nnts on Monday night. quartnr I had a bunch of shots, that miss by swiping the ball 
Paul added snvm1 assists and in the fourth quarter we had from Jason Collins, who then six rnbounds in his marquee great looks. We just made a cou­added to his mistake by fouling point guard rnatchup with .Jason ple of bonehead plays down the Peterson. Kidd. llfl had anothnr hugo play stretch that didn't allow us to '"I felt a lot of responsibility shortly bnfore his basknt, corning finish it out." because the previous two or up with a stnal aftnr his own New Jersey played without three possessions, I either turned miss and finding Morris Vince Carter, who sprained his it over or missed a shot," Paul 
Pntnrson, who convnrtnd a four­ankle Saturday in a loss to said. "When I was able to get point play to tin it with a minute Boston and is out indefinitely. that steal, Mo P hit the biggest lnft. Antoine Wright, who started for shot of the game. The four-point 
"I don't know how we won the Carter. was just short with a play changed the game around." game," Hornets coach Byron potential tying jumper before the Paul entered the game averag­Scott said. "Thnsn arc the type of buzzer. ing a league-high 11.1 assists, garnns last ynar we probably Nenad Krstic had season highs with Kidd just behind at 10.5. would have lost. It tells a lot of 12 points and 10 rebounds in Kidd claimed the starting point about thn resilinncy we have on his best game of the season after guard spot on the U.S. national this team. Chris Paul wasn't he missed the final 56 games of team last summer that the having one of his .best nights in last season with a knee injury. injured Paul manned for most of tnrms of taking care of the ball lie had been averaging just 6.5 the 2006 world championships. but man. did he come up with a points and 4.2 rebounds. big steal after turning it over." However, Krstic missed two Jazz U 7, Kings 93 
Tyson Chandler had 14 points free throws with the game tied Carlos Boozer had 32 points for Sacramento's patchwork game of a back-to-hack, with 27 and 12 rebounds for the Hornets with 42 seconds to play, then and 10 rebounds for his seventh lineup. points. Ira Newble added 17 (6-2), who made up a late 11-missed a jumper that gave the double-double of the season and Boozer converted a three-point points for the Cavaliers. point deficit and won on back-to­llornets a chance to win it. the Utah Jazz beat the short­play with 7:22 left in the game to Iverson scored 18 in the first hack nights following their first "This one hurts probably more handed Sacramento Kings on put the Jazz up 102-86 and start half and came out shooting to two losses of the season. than anything right now because Monday night. a 13-2 run that fmally did in the start the third quarter. He scored 
"Thern wflrn a few times down it's a game where we should Andrei Kirilenko added 15 Kings. 11 points in the first 5 minutes of tho stretch where I felt it might have won, but just made some points, eight rebounds, eight Boozer scored 30 for the the half, including two 3-pointers be over, we might not get back bad plays," Wright said. assists and three blocks for the fourth time this season and has a as the Nuggets (5-3) built a 78­
Jazz, who won their fourth in a double-double in all but one 51 lead. The Nuggets led 88-68 row. game so far this season. Ronnie heading into the fourth quarter. 
The Kings played without Brewer scored 13 and Mehmct Shannon Brown hit two three of their starters and were Okur added 12 as every starter jumpers to start the final period outrebounded 41-32 and com­but Deron Williams scored in that cut Denver's lead to S8-72, mitted 19 turnovers. double ligures. but Smith hit two 3-pointers to 
John Salmons led Sacramento Williams made up for it with push the lead back to 20. Linas with 22 points. seven assists. Gordan Giricek Kleiza's 3-pointer with S minutes 
The Jazz, who open a three­added 12 points and Matt left made it 105-81. game road trip Wednesday, Harpring scored 10 for the Jazz. The Cavaliers trailed 21-18 improved to 6-2 and have topped Kevin Martin added 21 points after the first quartnr despite 100 points in every game but for the Kings, hitting three 3-shooting 25 percent. Cleveland one this season. Utah had 65 pointers in the third quarter as benefited from seven Denver points by halftime and survived a the Kings rallied and outscored turnovers that helped keep the lackluster third quarter to put the Jazz 34-24. Francisco Garda score close. away the depleted Kings in the added 19 points and Beno Udrih The Nuggets used a 13-2 run, fourth. · scored 11 for Sacramento. highlighted by an lvnrson alley­
Center Brad Miller didn't dress oop pass to Smith, to take a 39­for the game because of a Nuggets 122, Cavaliers 100 24 with 5:52 left in the first half. bruised right quadriceps. Allen Iverson scored a season­The Cavaliers ( 4-4) got within Forward Ron Artest (suspension) high 37 points and J.R. Smith 11. but two 3-pointer by Smith at and guard Mike Bibby (thumb) added 29 to help the Denver the end of the second quarter were also out, leaving the Kings Nuggets beat the Cleveland gave the Nuggets a SS-43 lead at without the bulk of their regular Cavaliers on Monday night. the break. lineup. Iverson finished 14-for-20 Cleveland guard Larry llughes 
But the Kings who were avail­from the tield and added eight didn't finish the game. Al'tnr able rallied after falling behind assists, and Carmelo Anthony missing a 3-pointer with 7:42 left by 25 in the first half and got had 22 points and nine rebounds in the first half, Ilughes had within 10, taking advantage of as the Nuggets won their third some words for referee Bill 
AP Utah's lackluster defense in the straight. Spooner, who quickly gave third quarter. By the end of the LeBron James led Cleveland, Hughes two technical fouls and fourth, the Jazz were too much which was playing the second ejected him. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
ND tickets for sale. Best Prices.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  If you or someone you care about  
WANTED  FoR RENT  TICKETS  574-288-2726.  Do not go it alone. If you  has been sexually assaulted, visit  
Looking for a playful, kind  Blue & Gold Homes now showing  WANTED -ND FOOTBALL TIX.  PERSONAL  or someone you love needs confidential support  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml  
and responsible person to  08-09 & 09-10.  PLEASE HELP!  or assistance, please call  
watch my two children  Bluegoldrentals.com  574-251-1570  PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME- Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819.  Adopt: a young loving couple long  
(6 & 10 yrs.) in my home  ONE WHO IS? You do not have to  For more information,  to share their hearts and home with  
occasionally.  Blue & Gold Homes 2nd semester  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  be alone. We want to help. Call our  visit our website at:  a newborn. Will provide endless  
Please call Jill  sale. $200 P/S just off campus  ALL HOME GAMES.  24 hour confidential hotline at 1·  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­ love. Expenses paid.  
"alumni owned".  574-232-0964.  800-No Abort or visit our web site at  nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad  
574-288-7118.  Bluegoldrentals.com  www. victorytickets.com  www.lifecall.org  in THE OBSERVER.  Call Eileen and Ed 1-800-718-6577.  

r------------~--------­
OUND THE NATION 


Tuesday, November 13, 2007 
NCAA Mens' Basketball Top 25 Polls 
CoachesAP 
team 

1 North Carolina 
1 2 UCLA 
2 3 Memphis 
3 4 Kansas 
4 5 Georgetown 
5 6 Louisville 
6 7 Tennessee 
7 8 Indiana 8 9 Washington State ; 9 10 Marquette 10 11 Oregon 11 12 Michigan State 12 13 Duke 13 14 Gonzaga 14 15 TexasA&M 15 16 Texas 16 17 Arizona 17 18 Arkansas 18 19 Pittsburgh 19 20 Stanford 20 21 N.C. State 21 22 Kansas State 22 23 Southern Illinois 23 24 Villanova 24 25 Butler 25 
team 
North Carolina UCLA Memphis Kansas Georgetown Louisville Tennessee Indiana Washington State Duke Marquette Michigan State Oregon Gonzaga TexasA&M Texas • Arizona Arkansas Pittsburgh Stanford Southern Illinois 
N.C. Slate Villanova Kansas State Syracuse 
NCAA Womens' Basketball Top 25 Polls 
AP ESPN/USA Today 

team  team  
1  Tennessee  1  Tennessee  
2  Connecticut  2  Connecticut  
3  Rutgers  3  Rutgers  
4  Maryland  4  Maryland  
5  LSU  5  lSU  
6  Oklahoma  6  Oklahoma  
7  Stanford  7  North Carolina  
8  North Carolina  8  Stanford  
9  Georgia  9  Duke  
10  Duke  10  Gaorgia  
11  TexasA&M  11  TexasA&M  
12  Arizona Slate  12  Arizona State  
13  California  13  George Washington  
14  George Washington  14  cali1omia  
15  Baylor  15  Baylor  
16  Ohio Slate  16  Ohio State  
17  Michigan Stale  17  Vantfetbilt  
18  Wesl Virginia  18  Michigan Stale  
19  Rorida Stale  19  Rorida Stale  
20  Pitlsburgll  20  Purdue  
21  Louisville  21  Pittsburgh  
22  Texas  22  West Virginia  
23  Vanderbilt  23  louisville  
24  NOTRE DAME  24  Texas  
25  DePaul  25  N.C. State  

NCAA Men's Soccer NSCAA/ adidas Poll 

team  record  
1  Connecticut  15-2-1  
2  Wake Forest  13-1-2  
3  Santa Clara  11-1·4  
4  Virginia Tech  10·1-5  
5  Brown  13-1·1  
6  Southern Methodisl  11·3·2  
7  Creighton  9·1·5  
8  Boslon College  11-4·1  
9  Indiana  12-4-3  
10  Tulsa  11-2·2  
11  NOmE DAME  10-3·5  
12  Saint louis  11-2·3  
13  UC Santa Barbara  10·3·3  
14  Northweslem  11·3·3  
15  Harvard  10-3·2  
16  Wesl Virginia  12-5·1  
17  Akron  13-3-2  
18  Ohio Stale  11-3·4  
19  Cali1omia  10-4-1  
20  Maryland  9·4·4  
21  Virginia  10·5·2  
22  South Florida  11-4·2  
23  Furman  15-3-0  
24  Duke  10-5-1  
25  Dartmouth  10-3·2  


previous 
1 2 3 5 
fi 
4 8 
1 
10 11 
9 13 15 12 17 20 22 23 24 25 14 
NR 
16 19 
NR 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S \AliRE SERVICES 
MLB 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Dustin Pedroia won in a runaway, just like his Red Sox in the World Series. 
The little Boston second baseman with the big swing was an easy pick for AL Rookie of the Year, while Ryan Braun barely edged Troy Tulowitzki for the NL honor Monday. 
Generously listed at 5· foot-9, Pedroia became a fan favorite at Fenway Park with his all-out style. Plus, few knew he played with a broken left hand down the stretch. 
"Everyone doubted me at every level I've been to, saying I'm too small, I'm not fast enough, my arm's not strong enough," Pedroia said. "There's a lot of people that have stuck by me and knew deep down in, that there's some­thing about me that makes me a winning baseball player." 

Pedroia hit .317 with eight home runs and 50 RBis. He got 24 of the 28 first-place votes to outdis­tance Tampa Bay outfielder Delmon Young in balloting by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. 
Braun's brawn earned him the NL award. The slugging third baseman from Milwaukee finished two points ahead of Tulowitzki, Colorado's sparkplug shortstop. 
Braun said he had trou-
IN BRIEF 
TiJ(ers hang on to cl~r Jones 
with one-year extension 
DETROIT -Todd Jones and the busy Detroit Tigers agreed to a $7 mil­lion, one-year contract Monday. 
Jones had 38 saves for the Tigers last season, a year after saving 37 games to help Detroit make the playoffs for the first time since 1987. He had four more in the postseason as the Tigers reached the World Series. He turns 40 in April. 
"For us, he's done a quality job for the last couple years and for us, a real big need for him to come back and fill that closer role," Tigers president Dave Dombrowski said. 
Re-signing Jones became even more important for Detroit when hard· ble sleeping Sunday night, then woke up early at his condo in Santa Monica, Calif., and went for a jog to ease his "nervous energy." 
"I had no idea what the vote would be based on," he said. "J knew that it would be a close vote." 
Braun received 17 of 32 first-place votes and fin­ished with 128 points. Tulowitzki got 15 first· place votes and 126 points. Ballots were completed by the end of the regular sea­son, before Pedroia. and Tulowitzki met in the World Series. 
"To show you how good Ryan was, in any other year Troy Tulowitzki would have won hands down," Brewers general manager 
page 13 
Doug Melvin said. 
Called up from Triple-A in late May, Braun hit .324 with 34 home runs and 97 RBis. The Brewers led the majors in homers this sea­son and stayed in con­tention for the NL Central championship until the final week. 
Braun's .634 slugging percentage led NL players and was the highest by a rookie in major league his· tory. He did not have enough plate appearances, however, to qualify for the title. 
His big offensive num­bers were enough to over· come 26 errors, tied for most in the majors with Minnesota shortstop Jason Bartlett. 

Top-ranked Federer falters, Roodicksurvivesat Masters CuP 
SHANGHAI, China -Not to worry, says Roger Federer. His game is very much intact even though he lost con­secutive matches for the first time in four years. 
The latest defeat was to Fernando Gonzalez of Chile, a 4-6, 7-6 (1), 7-5 decision Monday at the Masters Cup. Federer, the defending champion, entered the match with a 15-0 record in round-robin play at the season-ending tournament. It was the top-ranked star's first loss in 11 meetings against No. 7 Gonzalez. 
"Some players or people might think, 'Now he's more vulnerable,"' 
Nets' Carter sidelined 
by right ankle sprain 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.-Vince Carter of the New Jersey Nets will be sidelined indefinitely with a sprained right ankle. 
An MRI on Monday revealed Carter sustained a Grade 1 sprain on Saturday night against the Boston Celtics, Nets president Rod Thorn said Monday. There is no timetable for Carter's return. 
"I guess relief is a good word in that it could have been a whole lot worse," Nets coach Lawrence Frank said before the Nets played the New Orleans Hornets. "The positive thing is that he has felt bet­ter each and every day." 
The eight-time All-Star was hurt in the 
throwing reliever Joel Zumaya had Federer said. "I disagree, obviously. third quarter of a 112-101 loss to shoulder surgery, costing him at least I'm going to hopefully show them Boston. He landed on the foot of Celtics 
around the dial 
the first half of the 2008 season. again this week and then obviously forward Paul Pierce after a dunk. 
"Joel is going to be a real tough void next year again." Carter averaged 17.0 points, 5.5NBA to fill. You'll see how valuable he is by In the other Red Group match, No. rebounds and 4.5 assists through the Celtics at Pacers the amount of money that Dave has to 5 Andy Roddick survived a second­first six games. He signed a four-year commit to try to fill those spots," Jones set lapse to beat No. 5 Nikolay contract valued at about $65 million in
7 p.m., FOX Sports 

said. Davydenko 6-3, 4-6, 6-2. the offseason. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 13, 2007 
MLB 
Tigers trade Infante to Cubs for Jones 
Associated Press 
DETHOIT -Filling needs as l"ast as possible. the Detroit TigMs acquired outfielder .Jacque .Jonns from the Chicago Cubs for utility playnr Omar Infante on Monday. 
"Our scouts n~ally likn him and how he fits because he's a lnrt-handed hitter that can play all three spots in the outlidd," Tigers manager Jim Leyland said in a telephone interview. "But I think it was a great trade for both tPams because Infante (~an really he Ip a National League team because he can play short, second, third and in the outfield." 
.Jones took over as Chicago's starting center fielder in the sec­ond half this season. In Detroit, he's expected to split time in left with Marcus Thames and pro­vide depth behind Curtis Cranderson and Magglio Ordonez at the other outfield positions. 
Tho Tigers missed the playoll's this fall alter a surprising run to thn 2006 World Series. lloping for a return to tlw postseason next year, they addressed a major 1wnd two weeks ago by trading for All-Star shortstop l·:dgar Henteria from Atlanta for two prospects. Ddroit also agreed Monday to a $7 million, o1w-year contract with closer Todd .Jones, who had become a frne agent. 
"The Tigers just seem to be gntting better every winter," Todd Jones said. "We oflieially don't have an out in our lineup anymore." 
Jacque Jones hit .285 with five homers. :n doubles and 66 HBis in 135 games last season, his ninth in the majors. lie signed with the Cubs before the 2006 season after playing for Minnesota from 1999-05. 
"lie gives us another left­handed hat that we wanted in tlw lineup," TigPrs prosident Dave Dombrowski said. "lie's also an established major league winning player that gives us sonw flexibility in the outfield." 
Infante batted .271 with two 

Sizzle inb Bellinijj Tuesd33s 

home runs and 17 HBls in 66 
games with Detroit this year. He 
played six positions and made 
his most appearances at second 
base in 20 games. He also 
played shortstop, third base and 
all three outfield positions. 
"Detroit had been showing interost the last couple of weeks. Dave and I started preliminary talks in Orlando and had some serious discussions that conclud­ed latn last night," Cubs general manager Jim Hendry said. 
"We're happy to get Infante. lie gives us another guy who is versatile and can play every­where on the infield and all three outfield spots.... It's good for both elubs. Dave was looking for someone to play left field with Thames. We tried to wrap it up as soon as we could. We both have other issues to address." 
Jones languished on the Cubs' bench in the first half and was nearly traded. He also heard plenty of boos from fans at Wrigley Field as he struggled early. Once he started playing, his game picked up. 
Ilendry said Jones was pleased to be going to a team that was in the World Series not long ago. 
"Jacque was fine. We had a nice conversation before he wnnt home before the season was over. I le knew the possibili­ty existed," Hendry said. 
"I think he felt good about it. ... lie played well here in the second half and helped us get into the postseason. Hopefully, it will be a good situation for both clubs." 
With Jones gone, Hendry said the Cubs would probably turn to young players such as Felix Pie and Sam Fuld in center, adding that infielder Ronny Cedeno also has been working in the out­field. 
Detroit is now focused on adding a veteran starting pitch­er, hoping to bring back free agent Kenny Hogers. 
"In Kenny's ease, they said last wnek that they wanted to see what was out there," Dombrowski said. 

~~~AN ,•IT'C·H~E~N~~~~ 
Unmistakably Italian \Unbelievably Good 
511 0 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka 574-271-1692 
Reservations Accepted 
S•z~le'ne (Sizzlelini"')­
Every Tuesday enjoy our Sizzlelini® Specialty (enough for two) for just $10.95 Asizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a genemus poriion of spaghetti. 
B;J-}efie (Bellini)­A frosty raspberry, green apple or peach Italian work of art for $2 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelini~ Bellini Tuesdays! 
NHL 

Messier inducted into Hall of Fatne 
Associated Press 
TORONTO-On the day he accepted hockey's greatest honor, Mark Messier remembered where it all began. 
"It starts at home with the efforts put forth by your mother and father for all those early morning practices," he said before Monday night's ceremony. "All your minor-league hockey coaches who picked you up when your parents couldn't get there, your brothers and sisters, and all the players and coaches that helped you along the way." 
Messier, the granite-jawed cen­ter who epitomized leadership on the ice, entered the Hockey Hall of Fame with Hon Francis, Scott Stevens and AI Macinnis, along with former executive Jim Gregory. 
"When people go through this hall 7 5 years from now, our plaques will be up there," Messier said. "That's pretty hum­bling." 
Messier, Francis, Stevens and Macinnis made the hall in their first year of eligibility, automatic inclusions that surprised no one. And they're not done writing their hockey stories. 
Francis and Macinnis hold NIIL front-office positions. Messier and Stevens are contem­plating following their lead. 
"It's the love we have for the game and the passion we have for the game," said Macinnis, vice president of hockey opera­tions with the St. Louis Blues. "The game hao;; been so good for all of us over the last 25 years that we feel we can maybe give something back to the game." 
Francis, assistant GM and director of player development with the Carolina Hurricanes, said "everything I have in my life is because of the game." 


Messier, a six-time Stanley Cup winner with the Edmonton Oilers and New York Rangers, clearly wants to get back in the NI-IL. lie made headlines last year when he mentioned he'd like to be a GM. 
"There's no imminent plan," said Messier, who in 1994 helped the Hangers end their 54-year drought without a title. 'Tm not pursuing anything at this particu­lar time, but I'm definitely going to be looking to step back in some capacity, probably sooner rather than later." 
He'd love for that opportunity to be with the Hangers, but he's willing to listen to other teams since New York is set with Glen Sather. 
Stevens, who leads the NHL in games played by a defenseman with 1 ,635, has an open invita­tion from New Jersey Devils GM Lou Lamoriello to jump on board. 
"We'll see," Stevens said. "Coaching is very demanding, I've been around great coaches and I know what it takes to be a coach and the time that it takes. I don't know if I'm ready for those long hours." 
Macinnis, a dcfenseman, was an important part of Calgary's lone NIIL championship in 1989 but yearns to help deliver a Stanley Cup to St. Louis in his new capaeity. 
"I've said all along that I would have loved to have won a Stanley Cup in St. Louis as a player," he said. "The fans are such a com­mitted !,>Toup. They've bnen look­ing for one since 196 7." 
Gregory, inducted in the builders' category, was the gen­eral manager of the Toronto Maple Leafs from 1969-70 to 1978-79. lie is heartened to see top players staying in the game. 


Responding to the HIV/AIDS Epide:anic in SubSaha..an Af..ica: 
A Slide P:resentation by 
D:r. Robe:rt Einte:rz 
Indiana Vnive..sity School of Medicine 

Thu~sday,Novemmbe~15,2007 
7:00PM Jo~dan Hall of Science, Roomm 105 
Reception Will Follo-w PJresentation Pa:rt of lnteJrDational Education Week 
--~~~-----------------------------------------------------------------------~~----­
Tuesday, November 13, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
NFL 

Croyle to start Sunday for Chiefs 
Peterson out after 
Second-year quarterback takes over for Huard 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Damon I luard is out and Brodie Croyle is in as starting quarterback for the Kansas City Chiefs. 
Coach Herm Edwards said Monday the rille-armed Croyle, who came in for a shaken-up Huard against Denver on Sunday, would start at Indianapolis on Sunday as the Chiefs try to snap a two-game losing streak and revive one of the NFCs weakest offenses. 
"You need a spark," Edwards said. "We've been in some con­tests now where we haven't had the ability to score points. That's part of your job as a quarter­back, to put points on the board and move the football team. We've moved at times, but we've also been very inconsistent." 
Croyle was 17-for-30 for 162 yards, with one interception, in the 27-11 loss that dropped Kansas City to 4-5. 
II uard, an 11-year veteran, had been a backup all his career until beating out Croyle in the preseason. He played well in eight starts last year when Trent Green was injured. But he had been inconsistent this year, and before Croyle came in Sunday had thrown two interceptions and lost a fumble. 
"Damon's done a good job helping us win four games. It's never on one guy, obviously," Edwards said. "You need a spark. We've been in some con­tests now where we haven•t had the ability to score points. That's part of your job as the quarter­back, to put points on the board and move the football team. 

We've moved at times, but we've been very inconsistent. At this point in time, this is a chance for me and this organization to eval­uate a young player that we think has a chance to play quar­terback. But you don't know until he has an opportunity." 
A third-round pick in 2006 out of Alabama, Croyle will be the first quarterback actually drafted by Kansas City to start a game for the Chiefs since Todd Blackledge, who was drafted in 1983. 
Croyle said earlier Tuesday he did not know if he was going to get the nod. 
"If this is the week, then this is the week," he said. "If not, then I've still got to prepare and get better. We will be ready to go when it's time to go." 
He was expected to win the job in training, but he played poorly in the preseason and Huard, who hardly played because of an injury, was given the job virtually by default. 
''I'm a pretty patient guy and I think your patience helps you make the right decision," Edwards said. "It takes the emo­tion out of your decision and you gather the information as you play. When you change your quarterback, people always feel like it was all on the quarter­back. It's not. It's never all on the quarterback. Damon's been a pro, a standup guy. When I brought him in here today he understood. He gets the big pic­ture. He understands that it's been nine weeks and that it's not an emotional decision. 
"Maybe some people thought I should have done it earlier," Edwards added. "I have a feel for this football team. We're at a point where I've got to try to spark something on offense." 
gled in every game Peterson has not topped 200 yards rushing this season. It's been a one-man show in Minnesota, with Peterson accounting for 1,081 of the team's 1,551 

International Film Series 
yards rushing and eight of the 
Presents 
was about to make a cut downfield, and the star rookie writhed in pain for several minutes in a scary scene. 
Losing the only offensive star

Kellogg Institute 
it has will be a devastating blow to a unit that has strug­


tearing ligament 
team's 10 touchdowns rushing. 
The No. 7 overall draft pick out of Oklahoma broke the sin­gle-game rushing record two weeks ago against San Diego, racking up 296 yards to put him on pace to smash Eric Dickerson's record for yards rushing by a rookie in a single season. 
Now the Vikings will turn to veteran Chester Taylor, who topped 1,200 yards rushing last season and has been solid in spot duty behind Peterson this year. Taylor is averaging 5 yards per carry in a backup role. 
"He obviously has a track record," Childress said. "We just expect somebody to pick up there." 
Peterson took over as the starter after rushing for 224 yards in a victory over Chicago on Oct. 14. The Vikings scored 34 points that week, and the only other time they've topped 30 points in a game this sea­son was during Peterson's his­toric performance in their 35­17 victory over the Chargers two weeks ago. 
An unbalanced attack on offense is mostly to blame. The Vikings rank No. 1 in the NFL in rush offense, but are 31st in passing offense and have flip­flopped quarterbacks all sea­son. 
Brooks Bollinger became the third quarterback to start this season in Sunday's loss to Green Bay, and Childress said he will go with Tarvaris Jackson against the Raiders. 
With the Packers keyed almost solely on stopping Peterson, the dazzling runner was limited to 45 yards on 11 carries before he was hurt. The Vikings had just 17 plays in the first half thanks to Bollinger's struggles in the passing game, and had no chance after falling behind 20­0 early in the second half. 
For the immediate future, at least, the Vikings must find a way to generate intensity with­out the player who galvanizes them on offense. 
Associated Press 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. ­Minnesota Vikings running back Adrian Peterson will miss Sunday's game against Oakland with a torn ligament in his right knee. 
Coach Brad Childress said Monday that Peterson tore his lateral collateral ligament in the Vikings' 34-0 loss to Green Bay. Peterson will not require surgery, Childress said. 
"The good news is that the knee is otherwise stable and the injury is isolated to that ligament," Childress said. ''I'm told that's a good healing liga­ment." 
Childress said this is not a season-ending injury, but he did not talk about when Peterson might be back. 
"''m real hesitant to put a timeline on that thing," Childress said. 
Peterson was hurt just a week after he set an NFL sin­gle-game rushing record with 296 yards in a victory over San Diego. 
Team doctors told Children that with ligament tears grad­ed on a three-point scale, with three being the worst, Peterson's tear is "two-plus." It's as serious as an anterior cruciate ligament tear, which would have required surgery and ended Peterson's brilliant rookie season. 
"This is not one of those," Childress said. 
Peterson was injured in the third quarter Sunday. Packers cornerback AI Harris hit him in the knee just as Peterson 
Workinu Women 

The Importance
of the World 

···· ofBeing
Focusing on Levi Strauss & Co., this film follows the relocation of garment production from Western countries to nations such as Indonesia, the Philippines, and Turkey, where low wages are the rule and employee rights are nonexistent. 

Otjeofthe most hilarious plays ever written 
Behind the new gospel of free trade are the real lives of 
Directedby
women like Yanti, a 26-year-old Indonesian who works ten 
Mark Abram-Copenhaver
hours a day, six days aweek, for $60 a month, and Maria 
Costumes designed by
Therese, a union representative in the Levis factory in Yser 
Melissa RBialko 
La Basse, France. Working Women of the World puts these 
Scenery and Ligllling designed by 
women's stories into the larger history of the development 
Michaela Duffy 
of globalization. 
Wednesday, November 14th at 7pm 
Little Theatre 

Thursday, November 
15 at 7:30P.M. Friday, November 16 at 7:30P.M. Sunday, November 18 at 2:30P.M. & 7:30P.M. 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium 

' KELLOGG 
3 
rlA'l! 
j INSTITUTE
~~·"""~/ 
Cosponsored by the Higgins labor Research Center 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 13, 2007 
NHL 
Predators deal Blue Jackets fourth-straight loss 
Richards' short-handed goals launch Flyers 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Onen the 

Nashville Predators realiznd thorn 
was mon1 to the game than 
ommsn, their early-season slump 
quickly became a thing of the 
past. 
.J.P. Dumont had two goals and 

an assist. and tlw Predators snnt 
the Columbus Blue .Jackets to 
their fourth straight loss with a 4­
1 win Monday night. 
"Wn don't haVP as much [scor­

ingI power as w11 did last year." 
Dumont said. "Wn'rt1 going to 
rwed 20 guys twery night." 
Nashville used its lock-down 

dnfnnsive approac~h to boat 
Columbus for llw IOt.h conseeu­
tivn time. and sneond in thren 
days. 
Martin Erat tallied twien­

inc~luding an empty nntter -and 
had two assists to rneord a 
earner-high four points for 
Nashville, whk.h has won seven of 
nine lilllowing a six-game losing 
streak. The Predators have 
narned a point in six straight 
games and night of nine . .Jason 
Arnott added two assist-;. 
"We know wn havn to play hard for 60 minutes," Erat said. "Nothing is lill' frne in this leagun. Wn paid thn price fiw it and now we're just trying to move up in the standings." 
David Vyborny scon1d the lone goal fi1r Columbus. Aftnr an H-3-2 start, thn Blue .Jackets have hit thnir lirst skid of the smL'iOn -all losses against divisional oppo­nnnl'i -and have only one win in six. 
"Our exneution today was very poor," Blue .Jackets coach Ken llitchcoc:k said. "Wn struggled to make 10-foot passes. We had a lot of tired looking players out there. It's not an Bxcuse, it's just a reality of whnrn we 'rn at." 
With the Prndators h1ading 2-1 in thn third period. Blue Jackets dnfnnsnman Oln-Kristian Tollefsen trippnd 1111ar his blun line without being touehnd. Arnott fp,d Erat for a shot, and Dumont jamnwd horne the easy rnbound at 11 :43. 
"We had some good fortune when one of their defenseman fell down," Nashville coach Barry Trotz said. "We were able to get some breathing room." 
Chris Mason had 29 saves for N<L<ihvilh Pa-;cal Ledaire stopped 27 shots for Columbus. 
"Mason was really good," Trotz said. "I thought Wll made a couple of exeeptional saves when the game was dose." 
Early in the f}rst period, after Nashville worked the puek along the boards behind the Columbus net, Arnott zipped a centering pass from the right corner. Dumont got behind delensmnan Adam Foote and tapped in his lifth goal at 6:39. 
Columbus tied it just 15 seconds later. Snrgei Fedorov pressured tlw puck loosn from def(mseman Dan llamhuis deep in the PrPdators' zone. Vyborny seoopml up the pur.k along the right boards, cut to the slot and beat Mason with a low shot through trallk Vyborny, who lnd the tmun in seoring last sPason, nettnd hL-; lirst goal in 32 games. 
Erat made it 2-1 at 12:3:~ with a supnrb efli1rt. Jetting aeross the ice toward the right wing, he set­tlnd a bouneing puck at the blue line. hnld oil' Hostislav Klesla with his lnft arm whiln shielding the puck, and stkk-handlnd around 
Lndairn, who lunged with a poke 
cheek. IIe scored his third of the 
season into the vacated net. 
"lie just outskated everybody 
on the ice," Dumont said. "lie 
wa-; by far the best skater on the 
iee." 
Ayers 3, Islanders 2 
Mike Hichards might want to 
slyly suggest one of his Flyers 
teammates get whistled for div­
ing, holding or any other type of 
penalty that would leave 
Philadelphia short-handed. 
Hichards somehow !inds a way 
to make teams pay on the p1malty 
kill. 
Hichards knocked in his own 
r11bound for the winner early in 
thn third period to lead 
Philadelphia to a win over the 
New York Islanders on Monday 
night and help the Flyers remain 
LrndeleatPd at horne. 
"lie's got great instinets and 
hf1's a big-gamn playnr," Flyers 
coaeh .John Stevens said. "lie 
came through tonight." 
The Flyers are 6-0 at the Wachovia Center and have re­established the home-ice advan­tage they wasted last season when they won only 10 times in front of the orangP-and-black die­hards, who shownd their appreei­ation with a standing ovation at the final horn. · 
The Flyers won at home against the Islanders for the seeond time this season aftHr dropping all f(IUr games against New York in Philadelphia la<>t sea<>on. 
Seottie Upshall scored twice for the Flyers. Martin Biron played a pivotal part in the perfection and wa-; sharp again in this one with 24 saves. 
Mike Sillinger and Chris Simon scored filr the Islanders, who had a four-game winning streak snapped. 
Hiehards caught a break early in the. third when goalie Rick DiPietro failed to cleanly handle a slap shot from just oul<>ide the eir­de. The puek bounced back right into a charging Hichards, who netted the goal that gave Philadelphia a 3-2 lead. 
Hiehards has three short-hand­ed goals this sea-;on. 
"I saw the puck come out a lit­tle bit and I didn't want to skate into the corners," he said. "It was just kind of laying there." 
Hichards led the Flyers last sea­son with four short-handed goals and ha<> two career 3-on-5 goals. lie was tied for first among NHL rookies with three short-handed goals in the 2005-06 sea<>on. 
"lie's been playing great. He's been our best player so far," Upshall said. "We need that out of all our guys every night to step up and score big goals like that. He stepped up and came through for 
us." 
DiPietro, who had 14 saves, couldn't make the most of his low workload. 
"Ife just kept whacking at it and it went in," DiPietro said. "He just got a shot at whacking at it a cou­ple of times and it wa'i a goal. It ended up being an odd-man rush on ~ powe.~ play and it ended up eostmg us. 
Hiehards might not have been in position to score the winner if not for Upshall. 
Upshall, playing in only his sev­enth game of the sea<>on because of a broken wrist sustained in a preseason game, gave the Flyers a surprising scoring boost in the second of a four-game homes­land. 
Upshall used some sharp stiek work to maneuver the puck around the defense and slide it 

PHIL HUDELSONfrhe Observer 

Predators goalie Chris Mason stops a shot during the third period of Nashville's 4-1 win over the Blue Jackets in Columbus, Ohio, on Monday. 
past DiPietro for a 2-1 Sutton for the puck behind the breakaway early in the second Philadelphia lead in the second. net. The puck squirtPd free, and and the Islanders carne right 
The Islanders used an odd play Islanders forward Huslan back after that sensational save to tic it with 1 :43 left in the peri­Fedotenko tried to dear it down to make it 1-1. Sillinger scornd his od. Miroslav Satan's shot landed the ice, but swung it into Upshall's second goal of the season on a behind Biron's skate in the path. backhander. crease. Simon erashnd into Biron, Upshall knocked the puek past The Islanders wasted all four who fell on his baek and was DiPietro for his second goal of the power-play opportuniti11s. helpless as the puck scooted to season. "We didn't have any power on the back of the net. "It's nice to be able to make a the pow11r play," coaeh T11d Nolan 
Upshall took advantage of a move on the goalie," Upshall said. said. "You have to get some shot-; misplay ofT the boards to put the The Islanders and Flyers com­through and you have to create Flyers up 1-0 midway through bined for only nine shots in the some havoc in front of the net to the first. Philadelphia's Je!T Carter first. give any goaltender some trouble. battled into the boards with Andy DiPietro stopped Richards on a We just didn't establish anything." 


Tuesday, November 13, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Kurz 
continued from page 20 
sloppy play to open the con­test, the Irish held the Blackbirds to 26.5 percent shooting in the first half to take a commanding 39-23 lead into halftime. 
"I thought we did a really good job defensively," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "I think we're getting better and better staying in position and playing as a unit defen­sively, being able to switch with each other." 
With 9:51 remaining in the opening period and the Irish leading by just five points, Irish junior guard Kyle McAlarney nailed a three­pointer. On Long Island's ensuing miss, McAlarney snatched the rebound and pushed the ball upcourt to junior forward Zach llillesland for a layup and an opportunity for a three-point play. Hillesland missed the free throw but the Irish did not miss the ehance to take control of the contest. They outscored the Blackbirds 23­12 to close the half. 
"We started the game a lit­tle tight, wanting to play well the first game," Kurz said. "But once we got over that, I thought we played pretty well." 
After halftime, Long Island senior forward Eugene Kotorobai hit a three-pointer to open the scoring. But the Irish followed with a 12-2 run to squash any hopes of a second-half comeback for the Blackbirds. 
The Irish made 35 field goals and racked up 28 assists in the contest. 
Brey said he was happy to see the unselfishness dis­played by his players. 
"When you look and see 28 assists, I don't care who 
The College of Arts and Letters Invites Faculty and Staff Nominations for the Sixth Annual Arts and Letters Award of Appreciation 
The College ofArts and Letters announces its sixth annual Award of Appreciation, to be conferred on an outstanding faculty or staff member from outside the College. 
The College invites nominations of faculty or staff employees whose work elsewhere, in other units or departments of the University, contributes immeasurably to the College of Arts and Letters and enriches its life in significant ways. 
A certificate and honorarium accompany this award. 
Please send or email a brief letter to the Committee describing the outstanding contributions your nominee has made to the life of the College of Arts and Letters. 
Arts and Letters Award ofAppreciation Committee c/o Cindy Swonger l00 0'Shaughnessy Hall cswonger@nd.edu 
Deadline Monday, November 26, 2007 


UNIVERSITY OF 
N()TRE [)ArYfE 
COLLEGE OF 
ARTS ANn LET'lEHt; 
Observer Irish forward Luke Harangody jumps above several Long Island defenders Monday in Notre Dame's 82-50 win over the Blackbirds. 
you're playing, that makes his family this weekend. He me feel good," the coach was back on the court said. "What I love tonight is I against Long Island, dishing don't remember a bad shot." out eight assists in 28 min­
The Irish made 51.5 per­utes of play. cent of their field goals, +To the delight of the including 41.2 percent on Joyce Center crowd, the Irish three-pointers. unveiled a new pregame 
video montage. The show Notes: preceded player introduc­
+Irish sophomore guard tions and included clips of Tory Jackson's uncle passed past and present Irish play­away at age 49 Saturday. ers. 
Jackson missed practice and returned home 'to Contact Fran Tolan at Saginaw, Mich., to be with ftolan@nd.edu 
NIT 
continued from page 20 
aged 38 rebounds per game last year, presents a challenge to an Irish team that McGraw said has struggled in the paint. McGraw was displeased with the 24 offensive rebounds Notre Dame allowed to the RedHawks on Friday. 
"Rebounding's a problem, so we worked on that a little bit," McGraw said. 
Notre Dame has a powerful offense to counter Western Kentucky's. Irish guard Lindsay Schrader, back this year after missing last season because of a torn ACL, has played well in the first three games. Schrader hit 10-of-12 shots for 20 points in 17 min­
utes  in  the  game  against  
Miami.  
Freshman  forward  

Devereaux Peters has been productive on both ends of the floor. She scored six points and had eight rebounds along with five blocks against the RedHawks. 
"She's been able to really find her role," McGraw said of Peters. "And defensively, rebounding, blocking shots. But she's also been able to score. And I think that's been a 
MLB 
All-Star catcher Posada re-signs with Yankees 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The New York Yankees and Jorge Posada agreed Monday night to a $52.4 million, four-year contract that keeps the catcher off the free­agent market. 
A five-time All-Star, Posada said Sunday he was "really close" to a deal with the Yankees and his preference was to remain with the only major league team he's played for. 
A person familiar with the talks confirmed the deal, speak­ing on condition of anonymity because the team didn't announce it. The sides were working late Monday on wrap­ping up details of the agreement, which was first reported by the Daily News on its Web site. Posada must pass a physical before the contract is finalized. 
Posada's $13.1 million average salary becomes the highest for a catcher, topping the $10 million Detroit's Ivan Rodriguez and Boston's Jason Varitek currently are guaranteed and the $13 mil­lion Mike Piazza averaged under his contract with the New York Mets from 1999-05. Rodriguez will earn $13 million next year, the option season of his contract with the Tigers. 
New York also was trying to re-sign Mariano Rivera before Tuesday, when free agents could start talking money with all clubs, but those talks were tak­ing longer to complete. 
Posada and his agents, Sam and Seth Levinson, had lunch Monday with Mets general man­ager Omar Minaya and vice president Tony Bernazard. The Yankees initially offered the 36­year-old Posada a three-year contract but upped their propos­al to four years on Monday evening. 
Posada hit a team-high .338 this year with 20 homers and 90 RBis. He set career highs for big bonus for us that she's so quick and she moves so well." 
Because Notre Dame oper­ates a four-guard offense, Peters hasn't had as much playing time. She shares a spot on the floor with centers Erica Williamson and Melissa D'Amico. 
"We tried to make it as easy a transition as we could by kind of holding her in one spot, and she's done so well there," McGraw said. 
But as she matures and learns the offense, McGraw said, Peters will play on the perimeter, something she has experimented with already. 
"She's played on the perime­ter already when she's been with Erica, and that's what she's going to do," McGraw said. 
McGraw was not worried about the blowout wins lulling the Irish into a false sense of security. The leadership on the team, she said, is strong enough to ensure that doesn't happen. 
"Whoever we play next, all season long, that's the game we're going to focus on," McGraw said. "They're defi­nitely ready. They're not taking anyone lightly." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
average, slugging percentage (.543) and on-base percentage (.426). 
The Levinsons also represent Boston third baseman Mike Lowell, and the Yankees already have had dialogue with the pair about the World Series MVP, whose preference appears to be to stay with the Red Sox. 
Rivera, an eight-time All-Star who turns 38 on Nov. 29, was in the Dominican Republic on Monday, and the closer said if he couldn't reach a deal with New York, he would consider follow­ing manager Joe Torre to the Los Angeles Dodgers. He is expected to receive a three-year contract and Yankees senior vice presi­dent Hank Steinbrenner said Rivera already had been given an improved offer. 
"The Yankees are my first option," he said in Santo Domingo. "But if that is not pos­sible, there is Joe with the Dodgers." 
General manager Brian Cashman said re-signing the pair were his top priorities right now. 
"The ball's pretty much in their court now. They've both been made very good offers now, and we'll see where they're at," Steinbrenner said Monday after­noon. "We'll see how committed they are." 
Steinbrenner said the Yankees still were trying to gauge what the Florida Marlins might want in a trade for All-Star third base­man Miguel Cabrera, who is being made available. 
"We got a couple ideas, what they might be asking for, and it's a lot," Steinbrenner said. "I don't know what's going to happen there, but there's still plenty of time on that." 
It's also far too early to deter­mine whether the Minnesota Twins will attempt to trade two­time Cy Young Award winner Johan Santana, who can become a free agent after next season. 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, November 13, 2007 
Knights 
continued from page 20 
line, the Knights kept the ball on the ground and capped off the drive with junior running back Brett Wilps's five-yard touchdown run. 
"Our starting tailback was hurt on the second play of the game," Keenan senior coach Matt Gibson said. "We had a lot of guys who ... really stepped it up." 
The ball stayed in Stanford territory throughout the first half, but Keenan didn't score again, and the half ended with the score at 7-0. 
Welsh Fam. 
continued from page 20 
but oncn again. similar to the 
first Welsh Family drive, the 
offensive attack ended with an 
intnrcnption. 
"Wn'vn done pretty much the 

same thing all season. We have 
a potent offense and a defense 
that shuts down any offense 
that steps out on the field," 
Whirlwinds coach Mike Kaiser 
said. "We just played our 
game." 
The next drive the Whirlwind was fueled by the Gargula-Hart connection. After both teams traded red-zone penalties, the junior quarterback hit sopho­more Mary Hodriguez for a touchdown. 
The Purple Weasels could not make anything happen on their rwxt drivn, ending thn hall', and tiH~ir struggles on offnnse con­tinued as tlwy ended their drive to op1m the second half by turning ovnr the ball on downs. 
Gargula and llart onee again took over the game on the offonsivn sidn of tlw ball. After a l'irst down run by Demetria llunth. <;argula hit the senior rncniver on a quick slant for the touchdown and the 13-0 lead. 
Tho interior line, spearhead­ed by thn attack of Pick and snnior Whitnny Endsley did not allow Pasquerilla West to get any momentum, and the Whirlwinds once again found themsnlvns victorious. 
"W1~Ish l'amily had our num­ber all ynar. They am a really talent1~d tmun," Purple Weasels coach Paul Wallnnlwrg said. "Any loss is disappointing, but we have a lot of rnturning tal­ent. and I have a lot of hope for nnxt ynar." 
Cavanaugh 12, Farley 0 
Cavanaugh playnd a nearly pnrf'net ganw. shutting out htrlny's l;innst on Sunday at Binhln FiPid. 
Thn sPmil"inal loss nnds Farll~y·s impn~ssiVI' playoff' run and sends thn Chaos to the championship gamn at Notrn Damn Stadium. 
"It's a gn~at step in thn right dirncl.ion." Cavanaugh coach CiiT l!itzgnrald said. "It has lwnn a vnry frustrating season Ios in g morn ga nws than we nxpnctnd this ynar." 
Tlw Chaos nndPd thn snason wnll and managnd to srwak into tlw playoiTs as a No. 6 s1wd. In f.lwir first ganH' of' tlw playoffs, thny upsnt Pangborn to advancn to thn sPmilinals. 
Sunday was nwrP of tho sanw as Cavanaugh playnd a rwarly llawlnss ganw on its way to tlw shutout victory. Junior quartl~r­back KatiP Dunn was thn story of" this ganw, using both her arm and lwr logs to boost the Chaos oiTnnsn. She threw two 
In the second half. the Ramblers had the ball in the red zone twice, but failed to score each time. During their second drive of the second half, junior running back Marcus Young ran for 33 yards on four carries before fumbling seven yards from the end zone. 
The Ramblers defense stood strong and blocked a punt, giving Siegfried first and 10 on the Knights' 15-yard line. The Ramblers once again failed to convert, though, as senior John Wood intercepted freshman quarterback Mike Garcia in the back of the end zone, effectively ending the game. 
touchdown passes and had a number of key fourth down runs to extend drives. 
"[Dunn] is seeing the field real well right now," Fitzgerald said. "After this game, I think we are definitely where we want to be as a team." 
Even after the tough loss, Farley was still very pleased with the season. 
"They certainly have heart," Farley rector Sister Carrine Etheridge said. "They don't call them the Finest for nothing. I am so proud of all of them." 
Cavanaugh's tough defense flustered Farley's offense for a majority of the game by forcing long fourth down situations and creating turnovers down the stretch. 
"Cavanaugh played really, really well," Farley coach Matt Barcus said. "A couple of plays and penalties did not go our way, but we just didn't play well nnough to win the game." 
Farley's defense has been strong, but their offensive struggles have been apparent all season long. 
"We've struggled this season on offense until we played Walsh." junior captain Jenny Holfs said. "It really hurt us today though. Cavanaugh's defense played well and made big plays." 
Cavanaugh will move on to face the undefeated juggernaut of Welsh Family in the intnrhall championship game at Notre Dame Stadium at 12 p.m. on Sunday. 
Contact Patrick Stynes at pstynes@nd.edu and Alex Barker at abarkerl@nd.edu 
Keenan now gets set for the Green Wave senior quarter­down pass to senior Matt championship game against back Kevin Rabil three times, Frankenfeld. Stanford, who defeated the and sophomore Chris Gill had In the second half, Fisher Knights in the last week of the two interceptions. began to make mistakes, regular season. On offense, junior quarter­including a bad snap on a 
"We got outhustled and back Brian Salvi went nine­punt and Gill's two intercep­made a lot of mental mis­for-twelve for 106 yards. tions. The Griffins put the takes," Gibson said about the "Fisher was a tough oppo­game out of reach with less loss to Stanford. "They're a nent," Stanford coach Rick than two minutes left, causing good team, but they better Loesing said. "But Brian did a the game to end early due to watch out." fantastic job, and we didn't the mercy rule. 
make any mistakes, which was "It was a perfect game," Stanford 26, Fisher 0 key." Loesing said. 
Sunday's cold weather froze The game looked to be com­Stanford will play Keenan in the Green Wave as top-seeded petitive at the outset, with the the interhall championship Stanford dominated Fisher on teams exchanging punts and Sunday at 1:30 p.m. in Notre both sides of the ball. then each turned the ball over Dame Stadium. 
The Stanford defense held on downs. On its last posses­the Fisher offense to only two sion of the half, though, Contact Eric Prister at first downs. Senior linebacker Stanford put together a 58-eprister@nd.edu and Laura Matt Templemire sacked yard drive ending in a touch-Meyers at lmeyers2@nd.edu 

The Development Phone Center ""'ould like to recognize the Collo""'ing ''Businesses oC the .IVIonth~~ Cor their support in our semi-annual incentive auction: 
Barnaby's Between the Buns Bob Evans Restaurant College Football Hall of" Fa1ne Cosimo and Susie's "A Bit or Italy" Culver's Restaurant Drive and Shine East Bank Emporium Restaurant FunTan (.]iordano's Happy Nails Spa Honkers Fan""lily H..estaurant John G. Shedd Aquariun""l La Esperanza Authentic Mexican Restaurant. Martin's Supern""larket. Maury's Pat's Pub Museurn or Conternporary Art, C~hicago Old Country Buffet Outback Steakhouse Papa John's Pizza Patricia Ann Flower Shop Perkins Rosen""tary Pickrell (Studio 23) South Bend Regional Museum or Art South Bend Silver Havvks Taco Bell The Field Museun""l 
Wendy's of South Bend 
VVe vvould like t:o t:hank t:hem f'or making t:he Phone Cent:er t:he best: job on campus and our auct:ion a cont:inued success. 

Tuesday, November 13, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLACK DoG 

Littl~ known clubs at Notre Dame: Ill -Sa\'e S1mday for the Sabbath Club 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
#2 -The Nou·e Dame Easily Offended Club #3-Nou·e Dame Missionary Club "Getting pissed off about stupid topics since 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 

3 Slight 
4 Special 
connections 5 Bustle 6 Port seized by 
Adm. Dewey, 1898 7 Poking tools 8 Luau offering 9 Queen of the hill? 10 Ballyhoo 11 Dismounted 12 Like mud 15 Easygoing 
16 Sound at a greased pig contest 
18 In the distance 22 Figs. clustered around 100 23 Like a malfeasant, 
often 24 Fluids in bags 25 Bull Moose 
party: Abbr. 26 Appeal 27 Incurred, as charges 28 "La Traviata," e.g. 29 Site of the first Asian Olympics 
30 Kind of pants 
31 Prepare to 
propose 35 1, for hydrogen: Abbr. 38 What a massage may ease 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Oliver Hill 
39 Theater seating 53 Miles. after 58 Prefix with marriage distant
40 Titles for attys. 59 "SportsCenter"
54 Red-bordered
43 In disagreement channel
magazine 46 "Say what?" 
61 Yellow ribbon 
55 The "W" in Geo. 
holder, in song 48 Pottery materials W. Bush, e.g. 
62 Geller with a 49 Reply, briefly 56 Straight-horned psychic act African animal 
63 St. crosser50 Onetime 
German leader 57 Author Ferber 64 Bring home 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 



ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
CROSSWORD 
Across "Do you like green eggs and 
ham?" speaker 7 In the style of 10 Lao-tzu's way 
13 Meeting handout 14 Broke from the band, maybe 17 Cosmopolitan 
staple 19 Date 20 Uncertainties 21 It can be silly 22 Spot en el rnar 24 W.W. I German 
admiral 26 N.F.L. star 32 Slip 33 Conquistador's 
quest 34 Actress Turner 36 Opposite of 
WSW 37 Period of human benightedness 41 Stroke 
42 Overall feel 44 Coquettish 45 Relative of a mole 
47 Colorful bed 
cover 51 Corrida cheers 52 Pageant 
adornment 53 Highest peak of 
Crete 56 Egg: Prefix 57 Wide shoe spec 60 "Behave'" ... and 
a hint to this 
puzzle's theme 65 Representative 66 Tie, as a score 
67 Cry between "ready" and "go!" 68 "Kid-tested" breakfast cereal 69 Keep 
Down Fools 2 Author James 



THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Ti.tesday, November 13, 2007 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Clipping the Blackbirds' wings 
Long Island unable to stop Irish post ganze in opening night win 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
In its first n~gular season game, Notre Damn overcame some early jittPrs and dnl'nat­nd Long Island H2-50 at the .foycn C1•nter Monday. 
Irish forward Hob Kurz scored 19 points and grabbed I 0 n~bounds as the Irish dom­inated thP overmatched Blackbirds insidP. Sophomon~ forward LukP llarangody ehippPd in 15 points whilo hatt.ling doubiP tnams down low. 
"Wn thought coming into the game WP'd have a mismatch down thorn," 1\.urz s<dd. "We wern obviously bigger on paper than thPm so anytime you havn that you have to lake advantage of that and I thought we did a good job of using our inside presence." 
Overall, Notre Dame outscornd Long Island 44-lH in the paint. 
The Irish had four turnovers and several missed layups in the first six minutes of the game. But despite the 
see KURZ/page 17 


NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
page 20 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish set to face Loyola inlstround 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Notn~ Dame ( 15-4-1) recnived a No. 4 seed in the NCAA Tournament and will host Loyola, Ill.. (14-H-1) Friday at Alumni Field. 
This marks th1~ 14th consecu­tive season that the Irish have hosted a first-round game or the NCAA Tournament. 
North Carolina, Penn State, UClA and Stanford weeivnd No. 1 sends. The Irish lost to the Nittany Lions 2-1 on Snpt. 23. 
West Virginia, Virginia and Wake Fornst. rncnivnd thn other No. 4 seeds. Thn Mountaineers defeated Notre Damn 5-3 in a shootout after playing to a 1-1 draw through two overtime periods Sunday. 
Conference teams cannot play each other in the first round and the selection committee was restricted by geographic consid­erations. Notre Dame could faee conference opponent Louisville or Illinois in the second round if it advances. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

Lady Toppers await Irish in NIT quarterfinals 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 

Notre Dame ent11rs the quar­terfinals of the presnason NIT Tuesday when it faces Western K11ntucky after both t11arns won their first round ganws handily. 
The Irish ddeated Miami (Ohio) IJH-50 and the Lady Toppers beat East Tennessee 
State 90-73 Friday. 
Notrn Dame has scored more than 90 points in each of its first three games, but Irish coach MuiTet McGraw said the early matchups can't compare to what the Irish will face against Western Kentucky, who finished last season 23-9. 
"!Western Kentucky isl defi­nitely the best team !we've 
raced! so far this year," McGraw said. 
Before their win in the first round of the NIT, the Lady Toppers beat Lindsey Wilson 95-62 in an exhibition game Nov. 4. 
Forward Crystal Kelly pro­vides a potent scoring threat for the Lady Toppers and led the team with 24.1 points per 

MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Knights shut out Siegfried 
By ERIC PRISTER and 
LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writers 

Kennan's dPfPnse steppod up Sunday in a 7-0 shutout of Siegfrind, propelling the Knights into tlw championship at Notre Dame Stadium against tlw Stanford Griffins. 
Tlw Knights wPre tested on multiple occasions but 1:amP through 11ach time to secur11 tlw virtory. NPithPr offens11 starl.ed tlw game well. hut field position was in the Knights' favor throughout tlw lirst half. But af'tpr SiPgfried's punter inadvPrtently downed thn ball on his own 17-yard 
see KNIGHTS/page 18 


' 
'--------­
game and 9.4 rebounds per game last season. 
As good as Kelly is, McGraw said, she's not the only kPy to the Lady Toppers' success. 
"Like most good tl~ams, they're not one-dimensional," McGraw said. "You can't just focus on her because they have good perimeter shooters and other perimeter players." 
On the perimntnr, thrnn Lady Toppers shot over :{5 pPreent from 3-point range. Guards Knnzie Hich, Cammie Campbell and Tifany Saragosa averaged 35.7, 35.1 and 35.5 percent, respectively, from behind the are. 
Western Kentucky, who aver-
see NIT/page 17 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Whirlwinds blow away PW to advance to finals 
By PATRICK STYNES and 
ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writers 
On the frozen fields of Biehle East, Welsh Family provnd it deserved the No. 1 seed when it cruised to a 13-0 victory over the ladies of Pasquerilla West on Sunday. 
Junior quarterback Jennifer Gargula and senior receiver Katherine Hart led an efficient and precise offense that eon­trolled the clock and chewed up time with key third-down conversions. 
Early on, Welsh Family looked out or sync -the pres­sure seemed to throw ofT thn Whirlwind's timing. While Gargula nvadnd thn pressure a few times and scramblnd, the drivn ultimately ended in an interception by sophomore dnfensivn back Cynthia Curley. 
On the ensuing possession, however, Pasquerilla W11st looked equally outmatched on the o!Tensivn sidn of the ball, with a long run brought baek by a penalty, a fumbled snap, and a pocknt that mllapsnd fre­quently due to pressun~ from freshman defend1~r Cari Pick. 
l.atnr in thn driv1~ freshman quartPrbaek (;raen Orians com­pleted passes ovnr the middle, 
see WELSH FAM/page 18 




