-----~-----~~-----------~--------------------­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 81 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2007 

Students encouraged to cast votes 
Judicial Council, Kozlow hopeful that e-mail will remind community to participate 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
The four tickets running for student body presi­dent and vice president will spend this weekend drumming up support, but for Judicial Council president Liz Kozlow, the goal on Monday is just to get students to place their votes. 
Kozlow and her council hope to increase the turnout for this election from last year's 52 per­cent. 
"Ideally, we would like everyone to vote because 
it's very simple to do," Kozlow said. "I would like 
to see 60-65 percent [turnout] this year." 
Over the past few years, turnout has hovered around 50 percent. 
At Activities Night this fall, Kozlow encouraged people to sign up for her election committee to brainstorm ways to increase student participation in the voting process and to implement these ideas on the day of and leading up to election day. 
ANDREW STEVES!The Observer 
Presidential candidate Danny Smith talks to women in Welsh Family Hall at a "Get to Know the Candidates with Pizza" event Thursday. see VOTING/page 6 


'Freedotn Revolution' aitned at SMC wotnen 
Students at College struggle with body image; only 15-20 admit to having eating disorder 
on appearance," said junior Mary's]." only about 15-20 students a
By MANDl STIRONE 
Justine Ray, the head of The movement plans dif­year admit to having eating
News Writer 
Freedom Revolution at the ferent activities including disorders. 
College. fundraisers, meetings and When a student who 
Any time 1,500 women are Posted throughout cam­on-campus lectures. believes a friend has an eat­combined in a small setting, pus, particularly in bath­Organizers have their eye ing disorder comes into the competition -especially room stalls, the fliers for the on motivational speaker Counseling Center, the first pertaining to body image -self-proclaimed "revolution" Jenni Schaefer, who lectures thing Bryant does is com­is bound to ensue. But while boast: "We're making Saint nationwide on the topic of mend her for caring, she many women at Saint Mary's Mary's a place where eating disorders. said. Risking a friend's believe eating disorders are women accept and celebrate Residence Life currently anger in order to help her is a problem, those working to our bodies." runs Freedom Revolution, admirable, Bryant said, and fix it say few are aware of Ray clarified the Freedom but the group hopes to be she often sees how the eat­how deep the issue runs. Revolution's goals. affiliated with the ing disorder impacts both 
"Eating disorders are a ''I'm starting a movement Counseling Center as well. the student and the friend. huge problem for our specif­that allows women to be Angela Bryant, licensed Then, Bryant said, she ic population -millions of satisfied with their bodies," mental health counselor of tells the student how to con­college women suffer from she said. "So many people in the Saint Mary's Counseling front and deal with her eating disorders. [Saint our society are ready for a Center, said a good portion friend's problem and Mary's] is very competitive culture change, and it's of the campus struggles with and there is a strong focus beginning here at [Saint body image, but generally see DISORDERS/page 8 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
University considers 
• 


ne-wnunor 


Native American studies program proposed by students 
By KATHLEEN MCDONNELL News Writer 
As the University explores adding Native American Studies -the first fully stu­dent-initiated minor at Notre Dame -to its curriculum, the idea may become a reality in just a few years, said Associate Dean of the College of Arts and Letters Stuart Greene. 
A resolution to enhance stu­dent life for Native Americans passed through both the Student Senate and the Campus Life Council this year. The resolution included a plan for the new minor and also proposed providing additional advising resources for Native American students and encour­aged collaboration to present the history of Notre Dame with sensitivity to its former inhabi­tants. 
Student interest can produce -or at least initiate -minors or majors, Grene said. The Education, Schooling and Society minor grew from per­sistent interest and faculty member's independent studies. And Korean should be offered in two years due to student input. 
The proposition for a Native American Studies minor, how­ever, "is really the first time that students directly have come to the College [of Arts and Letters] and requested that at least a dean explore the 
see MINOR/page 6 


Israel threatened by nuclear Iran, Inbar says 
The peace process has only
ByJOHN-PAUL WITT 
succeeded, he said, because 
News Writer 
Israel is able to present a "credible military threat" to 
Israel is more secure than its neighbors and deter them it's ever been. but the coun­from taking action. try still faces major threats, "Israel has been successful professor Efraim lnbar said in fighting wars because they in a lecture Thursday night are understood as wars of no at the 1-Iesburgh Center for choice," Inbar said. "Israel is International Studies. only 50 miles wide and is vul­
In bar, director of the Begin­nerable from all sides." Sad at Center for Strategic The greatest threat to Studies, outlined Israel's Israel today is a nuclear Iran, 
position in terms of its imme­lobar said. Nuclear weaponsdiate surroundings, the would give Iran the capability Middle East and the world. to destroy Israel before Israel "The resilience of the peace could defend itself. process is striking, the reluc­"I am amazed at [the] lack tant acceptance of Israel by of response in [the] free other Middle Eastern coun­tries," he said. see INBAR/ page 8 

'Ragtitne' explores race issues 
By EMILY KEEBLER News Writer 

Members of the Pasquerilla East Musical Company (PEMCo.) -joined by faculty members and a graduate stu­dent -facilitated exploration into the emotionally charged issues of race, class and the American dream Wednesday night in their production of "Ragtime, the Musical." 
Director and senior Jack Calcutt said the key to this year's production is to "watch it, reflect on it and learn from it." The leaders of PEMCo. decided to hold an academic panel to facilitate this discussion on the Wednesday between the two G. David Moss, right, assistant vice president for Student 
Affairs, listens as graduate student Crystal Blount makes a see RAGTIME/page 8 point during a panel discussion Wednesday. 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, February 9, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Recruiting 
•

111an1a 

Aug. 15, 2003: Grand Rapids, Mich., prospect Chris Khorey announces his top choices for college. Notre Dame is high on the list. Message board posters consider Khorey a lock to be Irish because of his legacy status. 
Khorey looks to be one of the top history major prospects in the Midwest, but some recruiting analysts say he has the flexibility to be a political sci­ence or psychology

major. Chris Khorey Sept. 22, 2003: 
Fresh off writing a Associate cover story in his high Sports Editor school newspaper, 
Khorey trims his list to five schools ­Notre Dame, Duke, Virginia, Boston College and Wabash. 
Message board posters express confu­sion over the presence of Wabash on the list and speculate that the Little Giants may be using illegal recruiting tactics. 
Recruiting analysts wonder if Notre Dame's lack of a journalism major will hurt the Irish. 
Oct. 3, 2003: Khorey announces his intention to apply early action to Notre Dame. Irish fans rejoice, assuming this means he is a sure-bet to come to South Bend. So long as evil admissions doesn't get in the way, that is. 
Nov. 15, 2003: Khorey announces that he will send applications to his other four top schools in time for regular admission. Irish fans start to worry that Notre Dame is losing its hold on him. 
Dec. 14. 2003: News breaks that Wabash is offering Khorey a full schol­arship. a spot on the baseball team, and an editorship at the newspaper by soph­omore year. Notre Dame fans panic. The Irish cannot match those offers. But would a legacy really consider turning down Notre Dame for promises that Wabash might not be able to keep? 
Dec. 21, 2003: Khorey is accepted into Notre Dame. Irish fans breath a sigh of relief that Admissions let him in. 
Jan. 1, 2004: Khorey sends in regular admission applications to Duke, Virginia, Wabash and BC. Irish fans panic again-he's in at Notre Dame, why the other applications? 
Jan. 23, 2004: Wabash offers Khorey an all-expenses paid visit. While there he meets with academic officials, news­paper editors and baseball coaches. Notre Dame fans assume all is lost and that Khorey was turned off by the win­ter weather in South Bend despite being from Michigan. NDNation.com shuts down for three days. 
Feb. 14, 2004: Khorey visits Notre Dame and stays with a freshman in Dillon Hall. During his visit, he announces that he will enroll at Notre Dame and that it was his first choice all along. There is much rejoicing among Irish fans. Message board posters declare Khorey the next Matt Storin and 
J.W. Jordan rolled into one. NDNation.com shuts down for three more days. 
Feb. 18, 2004: Message board posters wonder why Khorey's sister, a high school sophomore, hasn't committed to Notre Dame yet. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for rhe highest standards ofjournalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comacr us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU LOOK FOR IN A STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT? 



Marcus Gatto 
sophomore Dillon 
'1SO:SWF, non-smoker, not afraid to commit. Must love children. No drugs or alcohol please. Are you ready to take the plunge?" 
Andrew Masak 
sophomore Dillon 
"Fiscal respon­sibility, flowing brown hair, Croatian back­ground, tennis ability and ability to attract ladies ... basically Dan Krcmaric. " 

Susan Bigelow 
sophomore Badin 
"Must possess an abiding love for the Hesburgh Library Rare Books Collection. " 
Missy Reidy 
sophomore Welsh Family 
"J don 't look for anything. They look for me. 


Jason Miller Eddie Velazquez 
freshman freshman Dillon O'Neill 
"Looks are a ':4 candidate plus ... so who is not probably a fromZahm." girl." 
IN BRIEF 
Ragtime, the Musical, will be performed by members of the Pasquerilla East Musical Company (PEMCo.) tonight and Saturday at 
7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are $6 for students and seniors and $8 for adults. They can be purchased at the LaFortune box office. 
The Student Union Board will present the movie "Flags of Our Fathers" in place of "Bobby" tonight and Saturday at 8 p.m. in 101 DeBartolo. Admission is $3. 
Notre Dame men's hockey toam will play Nebraska-Omaha tonight at 7:35 and also at 7:05 p.m. on Saturday at the Joyce Center. Tickets are available by calling the Joyce Center ticket office. 
The primary elections for student body presi­dent and vice president will take place Monday between 8 a.m. and 8 
p.m. Students can vote online with their own computers or use com­puters set up in LaFortune, Mendoza or DeBartolo Hall. 
Former U.S. Secretary of Education Rod Paige will speak Monday at 
7:30 p.m. in 101 DeBartolo Hall as the keynote speaker for Black History month. This event is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 
a:: 
IJ.I :::1: 
!¢ 
IJ.I 

J)
3: 
...... 
<
(,) 

...I 0 HIGH 16 HIGH 12 HIGH 15 HIGH 22 HIGH 23 HIGH 19 LOW 10 LOW 0 LOW 11 LOW 20 LOW 15 LOW 9 
Atlanta 50 I 29 Boston 29 I 18 Chicago 19 I 10 Denver 42 I 24 Houston 60 I 51 Los Angeles 70 I 53 Minneapolis 12 I -2 New York 31 I 20 Philadelphia 32 I 18 Phoenix 77 I 54 Seattle 50 I 40 St. Louis 30 I 16 Tampa 73 I 55 Washington 34 I 18 

OFFBEAT 
Bears fan changes name 
DECATUR, Ill. -Scott Wiese, a die-hard Chicago Bears fan, will legally change his name to that of Indianapolis Colts quarter­back Peyton Manning after signing a pledge in front of a crowd at a Decatur bar last Friday night. He vowed to adopt Manning's name if the Bears lost Sunday's Super Bowl. 
The final score was Colts 29, Bears 17. 
So on Tuesday, Wiese went to the Macon County Courts Facility and started the process of changing his name. 
"I made the bet, and now I've got to keep it." said the 26-year-old, who lives in Forsyth, just north of Decatur. 
Wiese will now have to advertise his intention in the local newspaper -the Herald & Heview -for sev­eral weeks and then have a judge give him the OK to become, legally anyway, Peyton Manning. 
Man saves grandson from anaconda 
SAO PAULO, Brazil -A 66-year-old Brazilian saved his grandson from the grip of a 16-foot-long anaconda by beating the snake with rocks and a knife for half an hour, police said Thursday. 
"When I saw the snake wrapped around my grand­son's neck I thought it was going to kill him," Joaquim Pereira told the Agencia Estado news service. "It was agonizing, I pulled it from one side, but it would come back on the other." 
Pereira's 8-year-old grandson, Mateus, was attacked by the anaconda near a creek on his grand­father's ranch in the city of Cosmorama, about 250 miles northwest of Sao Paulo. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


Friday, February 9, 2007 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Professor receives NEF aw-ard 
Special to The Observer 
Debdeep Jena, assistant professor of electrical engi­neering at Notre Dame, has been named the recipient of a 2007 National Science Foundation (NSF) Early Career (CAREER) Award. 
The CAREER program, which was established by NSF in 1995, recognizes and supports junior faculty who exhibit a commitment to conducting research and providing educational oppor­tunities for students. It is the highest honor given by the U.S. government to young faculty in engineering and science. Awards are dis­tributed based on a detailed description of the applicant's planned research and edu­cational activities for a five­year period. The competition is highly competitive, with a success rate between 15 and 20 percent. Jena will receive a total of $580,000 over the next five years to implement his plans. 
Jena's proposal, "Dielectric Engineering of Quantum-Wire Solids: Fundamentals to Applications," addresses the fundamental properties of tiny semiconductor "nanowires" and includes research activities and cur­ricula encompassing under­graduates, graduate stu­dents and high school out­reach. 
A Notre Dame faculty member since 2003, Jena's research focuses on two top­ics: the growth and proper­ties of "111-V semiconduc­tors," which are complex electronic materials capable of operating faster than sili­con, the traditional work­horse for the semiconductor industry, and their applica­tion to solid-state devices such as high-speed electron­ic devices and photovoltaics (solar cells); and the investi­gation and development of nanoscale devices based on quantum wires. 
Jena's work on quantum 
wires is part of a collabora­tion with Masaru Kuno, assistant professor of chem­istry and biochemistry. In its initial stages, the interdisci­plinary team is seeking to better understand the charge transport properties of single and networked nanowires so that they may apply the knowledge to the development of devices such as wearable transistors, photo detectors, sensors and photovoltaics. 
In addition to the CAREER award, Jena's research has attracted funding from the Office of Naval Hesearch, the Air Force Office of Scientific Hesearch and the Army Research Office. 
Jena earned his bachelor's degree in electrical engi­neering, with a minor in physics, from the Indian Institute of Technology in Kanpur in 1998 and his doc­torate in electrical and com­puter engineering from the University of California at Santa Barbara in 2003. 

Indonesian politician to speak 
Special to The Observer 
Amien Rais, a prominent Indonesian politician who led and inspired the reform movement that forced the resignation of the nation's authoritarian ruler Suharto, will present a lecture at 3 
p.m. Monday at Notre Dame's Hesburgh Center auditorium. 
Titled "The Impact of Globalization on Islam and Democracy in Indonesia," the talk is sponsored by Notre 
Dame's Kellogg Institute for International Studies and Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies and is free and open to the public. 
Rais, who earned his mas­ter's degree from Notre Dame, was the leader of the 25-million member Islamic organization Muhammadiyah from 1995 to 2000 and chair of the People's Consultative Assembly of Indonesia from 1999 to 2004. 
Hais' rise to power came in the wake of massive protests in Jakarta in 1998 that forced the resignation of President Suharto and led to the formation of the reformist National Mandate Party (Partai Amanat NasionaVPAN). As speaker of the People's Consultative Assembly, Rais helped enact constitutional reforms that 
·revived and amended 
Indonesia's democratic 1945 
constitution. 

Pursue tnedicine in artny, alumnus urges 
Free tuition, full pay with benefits among perks 
By BRIDGET KEATING 
News Writer 
With medical school tuition steadily increasing, graduat­ing medical school students now have the highest average debt of any professional edu­
cation. 
But there's a solution, army and non-commis­sioned offi­cers told stu­dents Thurs­day -join 


the military. Volpe 
N o t r e Dame alumnus Brig. Gen. Philip Volpe, the recipient of the Legion of Merit, the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart, delivered a lecture in DeBartolo Hall Thursday night. He was joined by Maj. Doug Muscott, 1st Lt. Bob Schlau, aide de camp to Volpe, Sgt. 1st Class Bill Hill and Sgt. 1st Class Christopher Vanover. 
All the officers encouraged students to pursue a medical profession while serving in the military, citing the advan­tages of full-tuition payments, world-class training, cama­raderie and intangibles such as the pride of serving one's country. 
"More people should explore such options," Hill said. "Eliminating this major finan­cial burden is something I personally highly recom­mend." 
Muscott discussed the perks 
of life as an Army medical student. In addition to free tuition, students receive full pay with benefits and are promised no deployments while in school or residency, he said. 
Military doctors also escape the insurance, business oper­ation and administrative costs involved in operating a pri­vate practice, he said. 
Muscott said that while a military income might seem comparable to a civilian prac· tice, the military pay includes comprehensive benefits, dis­counts and tax opportunities -making the two figures very different indeed. 
Volpe, who graduated from the University in 1977, incor­porated some Notre Dame memories into his talk. While he was an undergraduate, Volpe coached Flanner Hall to a victory in the lnterhall foot­ball championship and had enough foresight to hire a stu­dent named Charlie Weis as his assistant coach. He also recalled visits to legendary spots on campus. 
"The Grotto works," he said. "I passed all my exams." 
Another former Flanner res­ident, AI Bucci, listened to the lecture and called Volpe "as great an American hero and Notre Dame man as he is a soldier and a caring doctor with the values of Notre Dame." 
Contact Bridget Keating at bkeating@nd.edu 

Notre Dame Law School is pleased to announce its Law School Diversity Conference. 
As part of the Law School Admissions Council sponsored National Minority Law School Recruitment Month, the conference is designed to provide guidance to students who are interested in or considering 
attending law school. The conference is free of charge and open to all. 
Friday, February 16, 2007 12 noon to 3 pm 
The program will include a Student Panel (Question and Answer session focusing on law school student life), a pres­entation on Applying to Law School Topics include: Preparing for the LSAT, Personal Statements, and Letter of Recommendation Choices and a presentation on Financing a Legal Education. 
You can register online through our website www.lawadmissions.nd.edu or by calling 
(574) 631-6626 on or before February 9th. Lunch will be served during the conference 
~;.
:1 . . jPRI Media 
Rdver11s1n9 
1\ 

GET YOUR CAREER STARTED IN INDY 
GREAT COMPANIES IN THE INDIANAPOLIS AREA 
Hirons & Co. ······ ;,;·····•·······~,~~""'~"-·.-··~Emmfr""'··················"---······..---···· ..n·················"'"'·""' 
··11·· BrancrGroup·''"·~· ·'~·· .;;;;,:4'f04"'··•~'""" 
The Jackson Group·· ·lndianaBusines·s~Maga,~I!J~··· Publicis--.... Quill. ... , ... ~··~·~.··.·,·-~"'··"'"·;.,~~~.;G. .... Pearson McMahoQ fletcherEf19.1~1'lct . ......I!l~ !.nql~n~Pc:>H~..§J~r 
Borshoff Johnson Matthews WFYI-TV Hetrick Communications WISH-TV Coles Public Relations WRTZ-TV Avatar-comml..lnications Grol..lp WTHR-TV 
page 4 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, February 9, 2007 

• 

lOPM If uou iove fhp loa ap tu--IJ =tr··t a1
'lui =-I V -• '1.: .'1.:
.I I 1 II. 1• I I ~.1 
•••---·-••••L.!! ---­= •• L
I •=...!·a·aaa· ==-r • •
in-· ·-iii 1.111 I I 1-iri ir:rarali PC.,
._.,U!!It:" ..'"-·.::; ---•••••• .....-..-.... -. 






ORLD & NATION 
Friday, February 9, 2007 COMPlLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVlCES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
North Korea nuclear talks resume 
BEIJING -Talks on North Korea's nuclear programs resumed on a positive note Thursday, with the Chinese hosts distributing a draft agreement and the North agreeing in principle to initial steps to disarm. 
Envoys from six nations are trying to agree on steps to implement a September 2005 deal in which North Korea pledged to disarm in exchange for aid and security guarantees. The 2005 deal -the only one to emerge since negotiations began in 2003 -was a broad statement of principles that did not outline any concrete steps for dismantling North Korea's nuclear program. 
The main U.S. envoy, Assistant Secretary of State Christopher Hill, said the new proposal would be "a set of actions that would have to be taken in a finite amount of time." He declined to give specifics, but said moves would occur in a matter of weeks. 
Iraqi official linked to Shiite militia 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -U.S.-backed Iraqi forces stormed the Health Ministry and arrested the No. 2 official Thursday, accus­ing him of diverting millions of dollars to the biggest Shiite militia and allowing death squads use of ambulances and gov­ernment hospitals to carry out kidnappings and killings. 
Shiite politicians allied with anti­American cleric Muqtada al-Sadr denounced the arrest of Deputy Health Minister Hakim al-Zamili as a violation of Iraqi sovereignty and demanded that the prime minister intervene to win his release. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Georgia curbs kids' health coverage 
ATLANTA -Georgia will stop enrolling new children in its health insurance program for low-income families because federal funds are running out, officials said Thursday. 
It was unclear how many children might be affected by the freeze, which takes effect March 11. Rhonda Medows, head of the Department of Community Health, said the PeachCare program, which currently insures 270,000 children, will continue to operate as long as possible. 

Pentagon intelligence examined 
WASHINGTON -Some of the Pentagon's prewar intelligence work, including a con­tention that the CIA underplayed the likeli­hood of al-Qaida connections to Saddam Hussein, was inappropriate but not illegal, a Defense Department investigation has concluded. 
In a report to be presented to Congress on Friday, the department's inspector gen­eral said former Pentagon policy chief Douglas J. Feith had not engaged in illegal activities through the creation of special offices to review intelligence. Some Democrats also have contended that Feith misled Congress about the basis of the administration's assertions on the threat posed by Iraq, but the Pentagon investiga­tion did not support that. 
LOCAL NEWS 

BorgWarner to close Muncie plant 
MUNCIE, Ind. -Auto parts maker BorgWarner announced Thursday it would close its plant in the city, costing 780 people their jobs. 
The move had long been feared by workers at the plant, which had employed as many as 5,500 people in the years after World War II. It is the fourth major Indiana auto parts plant to announce closings this year that will cost the state some 4,400 jobs. 
Auburn Hills, Mich.-based BorgWarner said its Muncie operation would close by April2009, when the current contract with United Auto Workers Local 287 expires. On Dec. 18, work­ers unanimously rejected the request to open contract negotiations. 
SAUDI ARABIA 


Palestinian leaders sign accord 
Rivalfactions agree on power-sharing compromise at Mecca summit to end violence 
Associated Press 
MECCA Rival Palestinian factions signed a power-sharing accord aimed at ending months of bloodshed Thursday, agreeing that the Islamic militant group Hamas would head a new coalition government that would "respect" past peace agree­ments with Israel. 
However, the United States and Israel have demanded the new govern­ment explicitly renounce violence, recognize Israel and agree to uphold past peace accords. The vague promise to respect past deals -a compromise reached after Hamas rejected pressure for more binding language -did not appear to go far enough. 
U.S. and Israeli accept­ance is crucial to the deal's success. Unless they are convinced Hamas has suffi­ciently moderated, the West is unlikely to lift a crippling financial blockade of the Palestinian govern­ment, and it will be difficult to advance the peace process. 

"Israel expects a new Palestinian government to respect and accept all three of the international community principles ­recognition of Israel, acceptance of all former agreements and renuncia­tion of all terror and vio­agreement will avert an now face the task of selling to compromise. lence," Israeli government outright civil war. Hamas the agreement to its ally, Much of the negotiations spokeswoman Miri Eisin and Fatah gunmen have the United States. centered on a single word. told The Associated Press clashed repeatedly in To boost the new govern­Abbas pressed Hamas to after the accord was recent months, killing ment, the kingdom prom­accept the stronger stance announced. dozens -including 30 who ised $1 billion in aid to the of "committing to" past 
She would not say died in four days of fighting Palestinians, according to peace accords with Israel whether Israel believes the that ended with a fragile Ahmed Youssef, a political. signed by the Fatah-domi­guidelines of the new gov­truce Sunday. The deal adviser to Prime Minister nated Palestinian ernment fulfill those could also fall apart as the Ismail Haniyeh of Hamas, Liberation Organization. demands. two sides work out who speaking in Gaza. But in the end, he was 
In Washington, State will fill sensitive posts in Palestinian President forced to settle for the Department deputy the new government -Mahmoud Abbas, of Fatah, promise to "respect" them. spokesman Tom Casey said particularly the interior and Hamas leader Khaled The final agreement was "we'll see what any final ministry, which controls Mashaal headed two days announced at a ceremony agreement actually looks security forces. of intense negotiations in a aired live on Arab televi­like and we'll have to make Saudi Arabia -which Mecca palace overlooking sion Thursday night, in an evaluation from there" put its credibility on the the Kaaba, Islam's holiest which Saudi King Abdullah as to whether it meets line by hosting the high­shrine -a venue Saudi sat with Abbas on his right international demands. profile summit in the holy Arabia chose to step up the and Hamas leader Khaled 
Palestinians hope the city of Mecca -will likely pressure on the two sides Mashaal on his left. 

Senate bill to clean up budget mess 
crack at amending the bill. after it.
Associated Press 

While protesting hardball tactics The bill sticks within spending 
WASHINGTON -Democrats con­by Senate Majority Leader Harry limits set by Bush, though trolling the Senate are pushing Reid, D-Nev., Republicans admit he Democrats created wiggle room through a huge spending bill fund­has them boxed in because any through maneuvers such as cutting ing 13 Cabinet agencies as they attempt to filibuster the bill would $3 billion from his request to imple­wrap up the unfinished budget invite charges that Republicans ment a 2005 round of military base mess inherited from Republicans. were shutting down the government closures and $3.5 billion in phan­
The $463.5 billion measure debat­when a stopgap measure expires tom savings from highway spend­ed Thursday would pay for about next week. ing. one-sixth of the budget, combining A vote to close debate is slated for Most federal accounts will be nine spending bills that failed to Tuesday, and Democrats are confi­frozen at 2006 levels. There are, pass Congress last year under GOP dent they will prevail. however, scores of exceptions for control. The budgeting work was sup­agencies and programs that simply 
The bill enjoys bipartisan support posed to have been completed must have increases to avoid fur­-it passed the House last week by months ago, but Republicans didn't loughs and hiring freezes, or cutting a 2-1 margin -but Republicans are want to make some tough choices critical services such as housing angry that Democrats are pushing it before the election and made no assistance for more than 200,000 through without giving them a serious effort to complete the work poor people. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 9, 2007 


College to explore diversity 
Renowned scholar to speak at Diverse Student Leadership Conference 
Now that student interest is widely known, professors who specialize in Native American 

2 


studies could possibly be hired 
.ioin ~)he depa.rttnents of

0 It. your major?within the next few years, he said. 
MUSiC
A
"Now we know that students 

are interested, and that this 
() F~'LN~~ TFLfViS;i'ON~ AND THTATI~F
interest is growing. It's possi­
s

ble that chairs of departments will begin to make !hiring fac­
AI~T~ AI~T HlSTOI~Y &-L)fSiGN

7 ­ulty with an interest in Native 
American Studies] a priority," 
in •~xplm·ing your pottmtial at the
Greene said. "It could take two to three years before beginning to get new faculty, 

)t~ltDI Hlli\S (JELEUilATitlN 011 rrllE VISIJJ\Ij 1\ND PEill10llM1Nt~ L~ll11S 
or it could take five or more." DeLemos and her committee are already at work to speed 

FI~EE FOOl)., NtUSiC., AI~'T., F'iLNl., I:JI~'iZFS., & MOI~F up the process to make the minor a reality. 

l1,t~hruur·y 20~ 200'7 
"We're working on increas­ing student awareness for 

1'ir;kets at the door or tJaJIG;ll-2800
minority recruitment in gener­al and also specifically for Native American recruit­ment," she said. 
Along with Arthur Taylor, 


tJ 
DEBARTOLO 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PERFORMING ARTS CENTER
the assistant director of the 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS
Multicultural Student 
Programs and Services, will be of an interdisciplinary DeLemos is working on a let­fashion, similar to the existing 

Minor 

ter to the Office of the Provost Irish studies minor, Greene continued from page 1 to present student concerns said. Anthropological, literary 
and continue the ongoing and artistic perspectives could possibility of a minor," he efforts to hire minority faculty. all be included in the minor. said. "I think students need to tell Despite the obstacles ahead, 
Destinee DeLemos, chair of our administration that we Greene remains optimistic the Senate Multicultural really do want them to recruit about the prospective minor's Affairs committee, recently Native American professors," future. met with Greene to discuss the DeLemos said.-"We can't "I think it's important to possible addition of the minor. recruit Native American stu­meet the needs of students 
The American Studies, his­dents to the University if we and I remain hopeful that tory and anthropology depart­don't have a strong program we'll be able to do so and at ments currently offer courses or classes for that matter that the very least be able to offer with a focus or concentration relate to their culture and his­students a minor in the on Native American culture. tory." future," Greene said. Greene thinks faculty "in spirit If new faculty members with agree that we need to offer Native American specialties Contact Kathleen McDonnell at more courses that have a are hired, the proposed minor kmcdonn3@nd.edu Native American component, if not actual courses on Native American history." 
But the College is not able to 

()
immediately create a Native American Studies minor due to a lack of resources, Greene 
M

2
said. 
The University has lost fac­ulty members over the last 

::>~<::: 
five years whose expertise 



It, A ~~,~~~'\\
was in Native American cul­ture and history, he said. But when departments hire new 

2
faculty with this focus, Arts 
D
and Letters can consider cre­ating a minor. 

0 in decidina 
The University hires new 

0
I
professors every year, he said, 

::>~<::: 
and each department makes a case for its greatest needs. 
(~ 
tant" to raise voting percent­
ages.

Voting 
"These people that you're continued from page 1 electing have the opportunity 
to meet with administrators," The committee's duties she said. "They have the include putting up posters opportunity to talk about con­throughout dorms to encour­cerns with the Board of age students to vote Monday. Trustees, and they are work­They will also man several ing with a budget that can computer stations the Judicial accommodate a lot of student Council will set up for voting concerns." between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. All students -including Monday. The Judicial Council seniors, fifth-year seniors and has rented computers to set students studying abroad ­up in the elevator lobby on the can vote Monday. first floor of In the 2006 LaFortune and in election that 
Mendoza College "Ideally we'd like resulted in a win of Business. It for the Shappeli­
everyone to vote
has also rented Andrichik ticket,
because it's very
out half the 4,253 students Macintosh com­simple to do. " voted. puters in That number 
DeBartolo Hall included 1,224
Liz Kozlow
for voting. freshmen, 1,201 
"So if you want president sophomores, to vote in­Judicial Council 1,058 juniors, between classes, 756 seniors and it will be much eight fifth-year easier," Kozlow said. "You seniors. don't have to go all the way In 2005, 4,186 students back to your dorm room." voted. In 2004, 3,496 votes 
The election committee were tallied. The undergradu­members will be at the com­ate population is approxi­puter stations giving out mately 8,300. incentives -like a donut or a This year, four tickets are cookie -if students vote, she running for student body said. president and vice president. 
At the Student Senate meet­The results of the primary ing Wednesday night, Kozlow voting will be announced informed senators of the plan Monday at 9 p.m. in to increase voter turnout by LaFortune. providing students with easy The Judicial Council has access to computers. planned ahead for the possi­
"This is a new initiative, and bility of a runoff election and we are going to see how it has reserved the computers works," she said. for that day as well. 
To vote, students need to log "We are hoping to have the on to their Webmail account same impact," Kozlow said. and open an e-mail from The runoff debate, if it Judicial Council, which will occurs, will take place Feb. 14 contain a link to the voting at 8 p.m. in the Main Lounge site, Kozlow said. This site of LaFortune and the run-off will also be accessible from election will be held Feb. 15. the Judicial Council's Web site. Contact Kaitlynn Riely at 
Kozlow said it is "impar-kriely@nd.edu 
l 
*
* * 
By LIZ HARTER 
News Writer 
Students interested in the importance of increasing diversity on the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame campuses will have the opportunity to explore the subject at the upcoming Diverse Student Leadership Conference (DSLC). 
According to its mission statement, the DSLC aims to inform participants of the adversities and benefits within various academic, social and professional settings. The con­ference was created last year when current conference chair Kim Hodges, Student Diversity Board (SOB) president Angeline Johnson and class of 2006 alum Claradith Landry felt Saint Mary's needed an event that combined every­thing SDB -a student group that represents diversity and tries to foster it through educa­tive programs and events ­discusses as well as subjects not normally encountered on either campus. 

"We were in need of a vehi­cle or mode to educate main­stream Saint Mary's about what each person encompass­es [diversity-wise]," Hodges said. 
For three days, a series of workshops will examine reli­gious, ethnic, cultural, sexual orientation and gender issues related to diversity. 
"We try to celebrate all kinds of diversity," Hodges said. "We are attempting to educate par­ticipants about various modes of diversity not generalized in a societal norm.." 
College President Carol Ann Mooney will open the confer­ence Mar. 1 by speaking about the diversity initiative, as well as her views on how to better prepare the campus for experi­ences of cultural competency. 
Many of the workshops will take place Mar. 2, including one directed by keynote speak­er Peggy Mcintosh. 
Mcintosh, a professor at Wellesley College, and former professor at Harvard, Trinity College in Washington D.C. and Durham College in England, is a major figure in the recogni­tion of white privilege in the United States. She exemplifies what the conference is about in every way, Hodges said. 
"She is a catalyst in shaping society to a culturally compe­tent environment," she said. 
Mcintosh will present her keynote speech, "Ilow I Came to See I Had White Privilege and What I'm Learning I Can Do With It" before the closing banquet Mar. 3 in Carroll Auditorium. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Friday, February 9, 2007 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

12,637.63 -29.24

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,553 lSI 1,680 2,817,869,330 

AM£X 
NASDAQ 
NYS£ 
S&P 500 l ,448.31 -1.71 
FTSf. IOO(London) 6,346.40 -23.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NIKKEI(Tokyo)·· 77 :::r.1~3~8'!il:~ll!'l~llll~~rl 

MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.37  -0,11  29.26  
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  -0.02  -0.01  44.45  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.70  +0.15  21.36  
CISCO SYS INC (SUNW)  +0.18  +0.18  28.14  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.32  -0.0 IS  4.73  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.1 0  +0.005  5.015  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.31  -0.0 15  4.837  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.04  -0.002  4.725  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +2.00  59.71  
GOLD ($fTroy oz.)  +5.50  662.80  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.88  I 03.58  
f.xcha  Rates  
YEN  121.3150  
EURO  0.7667  
POUND  0.5104  
CANADIAN$  1.1833  

IN BRIEF 

Kodak restructuring causes job cuts 
NEW YORK -Just when the gloom looked to be lifting, Kodak took out its well-worn job ax one more time. 
As it steers through the final months of a bumpy journey into a new world of digital imaging, the picture-taking pioneer said Thursday it will eliminate another 3,000 jobs -bringing its planned tally of layoffs to 28,000 to 30,000 since 2004. 
By year-end, its work force will slip below 30,000, less than half what it was just three years ago. 
The cuts are needed to accommodate Eastman Kodak Co.'s $2.35 billion sale in January of its health-imaging unit and its costly foray this week into a high-margin inkjet-printer market dominated by Hewlett Packard Co. 
"The dream was that we would wake up in 2008 with the digital company that we want to have. We're still right on that track," Chief Executive Antonio Perez said at an annual meeting of Kodak analysts and institutional investors. 
"We will finish this year. This is done.... This is the last year of restructuring." 

Stocks decline due to low retail sales 
NEW YORK -Wall Street pulled back Thursday after investors were largely unimpressed by retail sales figures and strong profit reports from Walt Disney Co. and Electronic Data Systems Corp. Weakness in housing stocks also weighed on the market. 
Investors appeared to be looking for a major catalyst to send stocks higher after days of largely meandering trading, but they dido't find it in generally decent retail sales reports. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world's largest retailer, topped Wall Street's forecast though the month's increase was modest. 
"A lot of consumers didn't do what peo­ple had hoped for in January," said Ryan Detrick, an analyst at Schaeffer's Investment Research in Cincinnati. "No one really missed a lot. There wasn't any­one that was really blowing up, but overall the market took it negatively," he said of the retailers. 



Dell founder wants turnaround 
Recent reinstatement of CEO Michael Dell shows company's desperation 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Michael 
Dell ofl'ered up some harsh 
advice a decade ago on how 
to fix struggling Apple 
Computer, words that now 
provide an ironic sting for 
the newly minted CEO of his 
own slumping company. 
"What would I do? I'd shut 
it down and give the money 
back to the shareholders," 
he said at a technology con­
ference in the fall of 1997. 
Of course, Apple's investors and CEO Steve Jobs have gotten the last laugh. Back then, Jobs had just returned to lead the company he had founded, beginning what would become an exceptional transformation. Dell Inc.. on . the other hand, has watched its business go the other way, and Mr. Dell has been recalled to the helm to get it 
back on track. 
When founders give up 
operational control of com­
panies, they often leave on a 
positive note. They've 
watched their baby flourish, 
and it then becomes time for 
someone with fresh ideas or 
skills to lead the next wave 
of growth. 
But when those same 
founders retake the helm, 
warning bells often ring. 
Their return to the executive 
suite generally means the 
company has hit a serious 

rough patch and is desperate 2004. chip maker Intel Corp. "We have a tough couple 
for help. His successor -and now Since topping $50 a share of quarters ahead," Mr. Dell 
Founders can offer things predecessor -Kevin Rollins at the height of the dot-com wrote. "We didn't get here 
outsiders cannot. They know had a tough run. Under his boom, its stock hasn't rallied overnight and we won't fix 
the business, so there isn't a tenure, the Round Rock, as high since and today things overnight either." 
big learning curve. It also Texas-based company faced trades below $24 apiece. Investors initially cheered 
signals a sense of urgency to a string of disappointing Oearly, Mr. Dell is trying to Mr. Dell's return, but that 
get things fixed fast since earnings, while its market assert hiscontrol right out of enthusiasm has waned in 
they typically have large share slipped-it lost its No. the gate. In an e-mail sent to recent days despite some 
finandal stakes in the com­1 position in the PC industry employees after taking over support from Wall Street 
pany. to rival Hewlett-Packard Co. last week, he said he was analysts. Among those laud­
All those factors surely last year. quashing bonuses for 2006 ing the shake-up and 
played into the reinstate­Dell also faces an ongoing and reducing the number of upgrading the stock was 
ment of Mr. Dell, who found­federal accounting probe managers to help cut costs. Credit Suisse analyst Rob 
ed the personal computer and was just named in a He also noted that Dell Semple, who said Dell "is in 
company in his dorm room class-action lawsuit that would push faster product the need of a strategic 
in 1984. He has served as alleges its profits were inflat­development and expand visionary to assess the cur­
board chairman since he ed by secret payments of into new businesses to drive rent direction of the busi­
stepped down as CEO in about $1 billion a year from revenue growth. ness." 


NY to sue Exxon over slow cleanup 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -New York's attorney general told Exxon Mobil and two other oil companies Thursday that he intends to sue them for taking decades to clean up a giant under­ground pond of petroleum left by the refineries that once lined Brooklyn's waterfront. 
In a statement, Andrew Cuomo accused Exxon Mobil of leaving a "toxic footprint" in New York City, then doing "as little as possible to address the dangers that it created." 
The subterranean slick, hidden beneath more than 50 acres of homes and businesses, is believed to have been floating on Brooklyn's water table for at least half a century. 
Exxon accepted responsibility for much of the spill in 1990 and con­structed a pumping system that has helped to gradually extract 9.3 million gallons of oil from the ground. It has said the recovery's delicate nature makes it difficult to extract any faster. 

"We take our environmental respon­sibility very seriously, and we are very committed to cleaning up the site," company spokeswoman Prem Nair said. 
Other defendants will include the oil companies Chevron and BP, which own facilities believed to have con­tributed to the pollution. Spokesmen for the companies objected to being named as defendants and said they also had been actively participating in the cleanup. 
The environmentalist group Riverkeeper has campaigned for years for tougher state action against the co·mpanies. The organization's president, Alex Matthiessen, said Exxon Mobil's days of treating Brooklyn "like a dumping ground are numbered." 
When the Coast Guard first noticed the spill in 1978, some experts esti­mated that it totaled 17 million gal­lons -about 6 million more than the tanker Exxon Valdez is believed to have spilled. 
·Exactly how the oil got in the ground is a matter of debate. One the­ory is that it is from a 1950 explosion, while Exxon says it was probably from a series of leaks from now­closed refmeries and terminals in the area. 
The state also gave notice Thursday of its intent to sue two other compa­nies for unrelated contamination in the creek: KeySpan, which is respon­sible for a defunct gas plant, and Phelps Dodge, which operated a now­demolished copper smelting plant. 
Keyspan said it would cooperate in any cleanup. A spokesman for Phoenix-based Phelps Dodge said the company has spent $20 million clean­ing up its site. 
.--------------------------­
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 9, 2007 
Disorders 
continued from page 1 
encourages the student to bring her friend to the Counseling Center. 
When a student comes in who admits to having an eating disorder, the process is more complex. The ini­tial action is creating an environment where the stu­dent feels safe and secure enough to trust the coun-

Inbar 
continued from page 1 
world to Iran's hostility toward Israel," Inbar said. "Israel cannot tolerate a nuclear Iran." 
Students pressed lnbar to elaborate. 
"Diplomacy and economic sanctions will probably fail," he said. "Israel is con­sidering shutting down Iran's nuclear program by force if the Americans and the international communi­ty cannot convince Iran to stop its weapons program through negotiation." 
lnbar said Israel under­stands it is not the Iranian people who are its enemies, but the regime. 
"The elite in power are determined to continue to build their nuclear pro­gram," he said. "Iranians will have to give up their cars and use donkeys, fine, as long as the regime stays in power." 
For Israeli security, peace with Egypt and Jordan are the most important local factors, Inbar said. He also credited the United States as being "Israel's strongest ally." 
"There is close military cooperation between the 
U.S. and Israel," lnbar said. "After [Sept. 11], Americans began to understand the violence the Israelis con­front every day." 
Israel is mired in a "low­level conflict" with the Palestinian people and their elected government, the group Barnas, Inbar said. 
"Hamas has a clear agen­selor with all of her prob­lems. The counselor then works to help the student find ways to overcome her problems, both physical and emotional. 
The options can range from traditional counseling to in or outpatient rehabili­tation, Bryant said. 
The Center also works with Health and Wellness, nutritionists, the student's family physician and other sources to help the student overcome her disorder. The 
Center's waiting room houses a mini-library of books and pamphlets, including 22 books on eat­ing disorders. 
The Freedom Revolution can be reached at free­dom@saintmarys.edu. The Counseling Center. located in 166 LeMans Hall (in the main lobby by the fire­place). can be reachod at (574) 284-4565. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

da -gain strength and remove Israel from the map," he said. "It was a mistake on our part to allow [HamasJ to partici­pate in [Palestinian] elec­tions." 
The war between Israel and Lebanon last summer also drew questions from students, especially because of the large number of civil­ians killed by the Israeli offensive. 
"There was no excessive use of force in Lebanon," Inbar said. "If Israel has to choose between Israeli lives and bad publicity, Israel's choice is clear." 
Inbar said the ultimate hope for security in the Middle East cannot come from outsiders, although 
U.S. intervention is some­times necessary to keep the peace. 
"When it comes to the Middle East, outsiders can do little," he said. "They have good intentions, but we will continue to conduct our business our way -the ability of outsiders to do good is very limited." 
Contact John-Paul Wrtt at jwittl@nd.edu 


Ragti01e 
continued from page 1 
weekends of shows. The last two performanees of Ragtime will take place today and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
Panelists included Donald Pope-Davis, dean of the gradu­ate school, G. David Moss, assistant vice president for Student Affairs and advisor to the black men's group Wabruda, Martin Wolfson, associate professor of econom­ics and policy studies, graduate student Crystal Blount and Christy Fleming Greene, advi­sor for Shades of Ebony and assistant pro­fessional spo­cialist in the 
First Year of "['Ragtime'] raised very campus com­Studies. 
important questions munity.
The panelists "There was
about the American 
reflected on an ownershipthe show, dream in 1907. ... It of this produc­which Calcutt 
remains for us to ask the tion by the 
called "an black students
question ofthe American 
ambitious pro­that I hadn't duction." dream in 2007." 
seen before: 
Blount 
'You know 

agreed that 
Martin Wolfson what, this is Hagtime is a my campus ...
t h e mati c a 11 y associate professor of 
this is who I

difficult show economics and policy studies am. I am 
accountability for one's lan­guage and actions, especially since the use of racial slurs in the musical caused controversy about whether it should be per­formed on campus. 
Calcutt said listening to experts and students express their views was a rewarding experience. 
"!Race] is an emotional issue," he said. "It's important to know that this is at the core of some people." 
Discussion has been part of the show from the beginning, Calcutt said, and Wednesday's forum was a way to "make it formal," as well as to involve the campus. 
While controversy persists about the show's content, pan­elists said ultimately, the debate has been unifying for the black 

to put on and 
to watch. 
"It did seem to be a difficult performance -not only for the cast, but for the audience as well -because of the emotion­al issues involved," Blount said. 
Blount conducts research on the impact of psychological stress from incidents she calls "micro-aggressions" -daily insults that result from racial or ethnic discrimination. 
Black and multi-racial pan­elists and audience members acknowledged such discrimina­tion and its far-reaching effects. 
"The racial tension that was here when I was at Notre Dame -that still exists," Fleming Greene said. 
She and other panelists urged students, regardless of nation­ality, to speak out against racial discrimination and live the concept of the Notre Dame family on a daily basis. 
"We have to say that if this affects you, this affects me," Pope-Davis said. 
Another theme of the forum was about taking personal 
Notre Dame. 
This conversa­tion will take place because I am a part of Notre Dame,"' Fleming Greene said. 
Another topic discussed at the forum was the concept of the American dream, especially as it relates to race, class and country of origin. 
"f'Hagtime'] raised very important questions about the American dream in 1907 ," Wolfson said. "It remains for us to ask the question of the American dream in 2007." 
Wolfson cited unemployment, poverty and income statistics that, despite civil rights grant­ed to blacks, demonstrate the racial disparity that still exists, including within the South Bend community. 
But the ultimate message of "Ragtime" should be one of hope, Calcutt said. 
"If we have courage, as is evidenced in this production, we can achieve the American dream," he said. 
Contact Emily Keebler at ekeebler@nd.edu 


FACULTY ORGAN SERIES 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2007 4:00PM. REYES ORGAN AND CHORAL HALL 




Cm'j 


"--_./ 
THE SECOND IN A SERIES OF CONCERTS DEVOTED TO THE COMPLETE WORKS OF DIETERICH BUXTEHUDE (CA. 1637-1707). 
Tickets: $1 0, $8 Faculty/Staff, $6 Senior Citizens, $3 Students 
CALl 631-2800 OR VISIT HTTP://PERFORMINGARTS.ND.EDU 

DEBARTOLO 
PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
rFriday, February 9, 2007 
Anna Nicole Stnith dies at 39 
'Heroic' i111age puts 
The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Centerfold collapses in Florida hotel room 
Associated Press 
HOLLYWOOD. Fla. -Anna Nicole Smith. the pneumatic blonde whose life played out as an extraordinary tabloid tale -Playboy centerfold, jeans model, bride of an octo­genarian oil tycoon, reality­show subject, tragic mother ­died Thursday after collapsing at a hotel. She was 39. 
She was stricken while stay­ing at the Seminole Hard Rock Hotel and Casino and was rushed to a hospital. Edwina .Johnson, chief investigator for the Broward County Medical Examiner's Office, said the cause of death was under investigation and an autopsy would be done on Friday. 
Just five months ago, Smith's 20-year-old son, Daniel, died suddenly in the Bahamas in what was believed to be a drug-related death. 
Seminole Police Chief Charlie Tiger said a private nurse called 911 after finding Smith unresponsive in her sixth-floor room at the hotel, which is on an Indian reserva­tion. He said Smith's body­guard administered CPR, but she was declared dead at a hospital. 
Dr . .Joshua Perper, the chief Broward County medical examiner who will perform the autopsy, said if her death was from natural causes, the findings would likely be announced quickly. He cau­tioned. however. that defini­tive results could take weeks. 
"I am not a prophet, and I cannot tell you before the autopsy what I am going to lind," he said. 
Through the '90s and into "Poor Anna Nicole," he said. the new century, Smith was "She's been the underdog. 


pressure on astronauts
famous for being famous, a She's been besieged ... and 
pop-culture punchline because she's been trying her best and of her up-and-down weight, nobody should have to endure 

Adjustment difficult 
her Marilyn Monroe looks, her what she's endured." exaggerated curves, her little­The Texas-born Smith was a 


for Nowak, others
girl voice, her ditzy-blonde topless dancer at strip club persona, and her over-the-top before she entered her photos revealing outfits. in a search contest and made 

Associated Press Recently, she lost a reported the cover of Playboy magazine 69 pounds and became a in 1992. She became Playboy's 
WASHINGTON -From the spokeswoman for TrimSpa, a playmate of the year in 1993. 
dawn of the space program, weight-loss supplement. On She was also signed to a con­
America's astronauts have her reality show and other tract with Guess jeans, 
been treated like stars, saluted recent TV appearances, her appearing in TV commercials, 
as red-white-and-blue heroes, speech was often slurred and billboards and magazine ads. 
and indoctrinated in NASA's she seemed out of it. Some In 1994, she married 89­
can-do, failure-is-not-an-option critics said she seemed year-old oil tycoon .J. Howard 
ethos. drugged-out. Marshall II, owner of Great 
Could that explain the down­"Undoubtedly it will be Northern Oil Co. In 1992, 
fall of Lisa Nowak, the astro­found at the end of the day Forbes magazine estimated 
naut accused of attempted 
that drugs fea­tured in her death as they "Undoubtedly it will did in the· death 
be found at the end 
of poor Daniel," 
ofthe day that
said a former attorney for drugs featured in 
Smith in the her death as they
Bahamas, 
did in the death of
Michael Scott. Another for­poor Daniel." mer Smith attorney, 
Michael Scott
Lenard Leeds,
told the celebri-Smith's former attorney ty gossip Web site TMZ that 


Linenger said astronauts take pride in their self-discipline, "and you set a goal and it's just going, going, going and you let nothing get in your way." 
Is God Calling You? That single-minded pursuit reminds Linenger of Nowak'sCome Explore the drive from Houston to Orlando, Fla., to confront an Air Force Congregation of Holy Cross captain from Florida who she 
allegedly believed was involved with the same space shuttle

Priests and Brothers 

pilot she loved. 
Smith "always had problems eyes, and he asked me to 

people are," said Dr. Patricia with her weight going up and dance for him. And I did." 
Santy, a former NASA psychia­down, and there's no question Marshall died in 1995 at age 
trist and author of the book she used alcohol." Leeds said 90, setting off a feud with 
"Choosing The Right Stuff." it was no secret that "she had Smith's former stepson, E. 
"They themselves have for­a very troubled life" and had Pierce Marshall, over his 
gotten these are ordinary peo­"so many, many problems." estate. A federal court in 
ple and in that kind of celebrity Smith attorney Ron Rale told California awarded Smith 
culture, there's a sense of enti­The Associated Press that he $474 million. That was later 
tlement." had talked to her on Tuesday overturned. But in May, the 
Santy said the astronaut or Wednesday, and she had flu U.S. Supreme Court revived 
corps is "like a family, but it's symptoms and a fever and her case, ruling that she 
almost like a dysfunctional was still grieving over her son. deserved another day in court. 
family when it comes to under­He dismissed claims her death The stepson died .June 20 at 
standing that these interper­was related to drugs as "a age 67. But the family said the 
sonal issues have profound bunch of nonsense." court light would continue. 
impacts." Former astronaut .Jerry 
With an evening of prayer and conversation with Holy Cross religious and other discerning 
Blessed Brother Andre, C.S.C. 


Dinners 

A truly unique dining and 5:30-7:30pm 
drinking experience, 
Begins at Log Chapel, Dinner to Follow 

featuring a creative blend of fusion style culinary 
Friday February 9th 
Tfie Venerable 
Fr. Moreau CSC 
Friday February 23rd 
Holy Cross Charism and Mission 
Friday March 2nd 
Discernmg a Vocation 
(574) 631-6385 
vocation.l@nd.edu 
vocation.nd.edu 
?• 
his wealth at 

murder? Were the expectations 
$550 million. 

too high? The pressures too 
In a 2005 

great? 
interview with 

No one may ever know exact­
ABC, Smith 

ly why Nowak drove 900 miles 
recalled meeting 

to confront a woman who was 
Marshall at 

reportedly her rival for the 
what she called 

affections of a space shuttle 
a "gentleman's 

pilot, but experts say the same 
club' in 

traits that make astronauts 
Houston. "He 

such high achievers can com­
had no will to 

bine to aggravate emotional 
live and I went 

problems and strain relation­
over to see 

ships. 
him," she said. 

"I really believe that NASA 
"He got a little 

goes overboard in promoting 
twinkle in his 

how heroic and super all these 

However, Linenger said, that's when Nowak's training should have kicked in and led her to reflect on her actions: "To not make a midcourse cor­rection is scary. It's just off her training and everything else." 
Nowak, like manv of her col­leagues, pursued ·a career in spaceflight since childhood. Then, after her shuttle trip last summer. her goal had been achieved, and the prospects for another mission were dim, even though she remained in the prime of her life at age 43. 
Space shuttles are scheduled to be retired in 2010, and many astronauts have been told that second and third spaceflights will be tough to get. A replace­ment spacecraft will not be ready until several years later. 
Other astronauts have strug­gled with similar doubts about their future. 
"The biggest problem that every astronaut has had once they've obtained their goal is 'What do I do next. what do I focus on?'," said .Jay Barbree, a longtime NBC correspondent who has covered every launch and is the author of the upcom­ing book "Live From Cape Canaveral." 
"It was more commonplace than most people knew because overachievers had no major goals in front of them." Among earlier astronauts, "most every one of them came back had adjustment issues," Barbree said. 
NASA flight crew operations chief Ellen Ochoa said the agency is considering whether to do more to look after astro­nauts once they return from space. "Individuals may won­der where they lit in," she said. "It's a puzzle." 
Buzz Aldrin, the second man to step on the moon, became depressed and had problems with alcohol after returning to Earth. 
Aldrin said the space agency "can deal with the physics and engineering and the science of things. They behave according to predictability. But you can't predict the human reaction and response and how complex it is. It is not easy for NASA." 

delights with a delicate touch of Asian flavors in an exciting yet intirnate setting. 
Plus, a stylish and contemporary fusion martini bar. 
Conveniently located in the center of Downtown South Bend between Morris Performing Arts Center, College Football Hall of Fame. and 
Marriott Hotel. 

119 North Michigan Street. 
Downtown South Bend. 

Reservations recommended. 
(.;(·) to V<JVYV\l~CfubNOMA.cocn Of'" WVI/VV.OpE:~r·l·f:af::>le.corTl. Or· call: ~~?.2-3.::·3 .. 4~~59. 
THE OBSERVER 








IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, February 9, 2007 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dinirlg Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Conference appreciated, jokes aren't 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihata 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtadcr 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTo EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: JeffAlbert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Bmwn 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CoNTROLLERi Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: AlejandfoGerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 63lc8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
oBsERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the 1ndependent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeithet institution. The Obscrver reserves the· right to refuse advcrtisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor: in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerrcrs and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those oJThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions thmugh letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infurrnation. 
Questions regarding Observerpolides should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon, 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observq (USPS 599 MOOO} is·published Monday th.tough FF~ qoc;ept -during exam and voottimt pecinds. A subscripliotao The Obso:rverls $l00 f~r one academk year; $55 .fur ~o:e seJn+li~er._ 
The Obstrvtt' is published ~r:: POSTMASTER. 
-024" South Dining Hall Send :add.~ ~ctiqns ~o; 
N<><re Dame. IN 4655<\4779 Tli< Obs<rvet 
P-eriodkal ~e paid ar Notte D.um­I'O.Jlo<779 
and additional.nWltng offices-. llt4 Soum Dining Hall 
No:t:W Dame;lN 465:56-0779 
The Obsctver ~.a member ofthe ~ted Pri.!S5, All :rq>rt:K.tnc:tion.right:= at~ tes<r'/<d. 




TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Graphics Eileen Duffy Tom Hanculak Kate Antonacci Sports Kaitlynn Riely Kate Gales 
Becky Hogan Becky Slinger Viewpoint Scene Kara King Analise Lipari 
The Notre Dame Student Senate's "Eating Disorders and the Campus Culture" conference began Thursday. This conference marks a monumental achievement for women and men, in particular college students, who suffer, have suffered, or know someone suf­fering of an eating disorder. It is a sig­nificant event for someone who feels the constant pressure to lose a few pounds, eat less, or work out more. In fact, it probably has affected, even in a small way, anyone who has found him or herself looking in the mirror that one extra time and feeling concerned before they go out on a Friday night. 
As a college woman, I can honestly say that the pressure to think about my weight and try to perfect my body is omnipresent in my life. As a member of a dorm community, I can say that I have seen the stress and worry on my friends' faces as they decide what to eat in the dining hall. As a friend, I can say that I have watched someone I love starve herself in an attempt to find self-confidence and self-assurance. As a sister, I can say that I have watched someone overeat in an attempt to feel loved and accepted. I am just one per­son, one of many at this University, and I have been affected by eating disor­ders in almost every sphere of my life: my dorm community, my closest friends, my family, and even in myself. I do not feel that I am alone in this predicament. It is for these reasons that I am so appreciative of the confer-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

HlSING SEA· 

LEVELS 

ence this weekend, and it is for these reasons that I fully support our current Student Senate. 
Unfortunately, it is for these same reasons that I was shocked by Thursday's Kaleidoscope McDaniels comic strip. In case anyone missed this comic, allow me to recap it. The comic depicted two exaggeratedly overweight men discussing the upcoming eating disorder conference. The first man ini­tially mistakes the conference for an eating disorder contest. The second then states that "I think women need to be aware ... you know ... of their bodies ... and stuff ... on their bodies". Then the first man comments that he hopes the conference will not impact the availability of fro-yo on campus. I have several reactions to this comic. 
My immediate reaction to the column was one of extreme concern. An eating disorder is classified as a disease. It worries me to think that anyone would demean or mock something as serious as a conference related to disease pre­vention. What precedent does this comic set? Will we soon have to endure comics mocking the runs to raise money for breast cancer or confer­ences supporting autism research? 
Secondly, I question the actual con­tent of the comic. Eating disorders are clearly a female-dominated issue, how­ever the number of men suffering from eating disorders is growing. It puzzles me then that a male student would write a column featuring male charac­
~RE 


KlLL· INCi 
ters in response to this conference. The use of only male characters in a comic such as this one gives the impression that the conference is strictly for women, and that men are merely spectators in the fight against this growing problem. This may cause male students who suffer from eating disorders to feel as though they are out of place, or that the conference is not intended for them. 
My final reaction, and the reason for this letter, is one of concern for the conference itself. Dealing with an issue as sensitive and private as an eating disorder is a difficult task. By nature, sufferers of eating disorders may feel apprehensive about attending a con­ference that may expose their condi­tions. So a comic such as this one, that mocks the conference, discourages attendance -threatening the entire cause. This comic has the potential to discourage many people, or even just one, from attending this conference. That person may have been the one person who really needed this confer­ence. 
And so I conclude with this thought: students of Notre Dame, do not let the ignorance of some hinder you from seeking the education or assistance that you need or desire. 
Eleanor Bradley junior Breen-Phillips Hall Feb. 8 


UNI· 


COHN! 

OBSERVER POLL 
vVhat was your favorite Super Bowl ad? 
a. 
Bud light-But he has Bud light! 

b. 
Career Builder-Darts and Jungle 

c. 
Taco Bell-Grilled taquitos (talking lions) d, Natiom\ide-Rolling VIP (Kevin Federline) 

e. 
Garmin -Power Rangers 


This poll is based on the re!tult of 327 
votes at http://www.ndsmcobserver.com/ 

%of votes #of votes 
45 152 13 41 b. 11 37 26 85 5 12 
d. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Early morning cheerfulness can be extremely obnoxious. " 
William Feather American author 

r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE 0HSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Friday, February 9, 2007 page 11 
Iraq and the crisis of American ideals 
Hegel observed, in his most oft quoted metaphor, that wisdom comes to us only when it is past the prime of its use. A philosopher would think such a thing, because a philosopher constantly faces the disappointment of realizing the James ideas in his head do Ma~thew not spring forth Wilson from it intact and 
The Treasonous

vital. The wisdom 
Clerk

of speculation therefore seems sealed off from the life of practice, and practical wisdom seems always to come to life too late. 
The truth is more painful. Ideas have consequences, but most of the time human beings carry out their lives cheerily numb to the best ideas and in unconscious thrall to the worst ones. Moments of violent historical crisis, however, tend to provoke changes one would not have thought possible a few years, sometimes a few days, earlier. Though one hopes otherwise, for instance, it is presumable that signifi­cant change to environmental policy will only come after some further, unmistakable natural disaster. World War I unleashed radical intellectual energies across the world that manifest­ed themselves in national and Marxist revolutions. The conclusion of World War II, in contrast, snuffed out those energies almost entirely, so that the globe could settle into a cold hypostasis of two powerful ideologies for nearly five decades. 
These are crude examples, but I think the premise holds: the routine crises of our history are the birth pangs of beau­tiful ideas becoming actualized and, at least as often, the birth pangs of ter­atomas to make the hopeful humanist shudder. 
September 11th was such a crisis, where the opportunity for high ideals to globe the full-strung sails of history pre­sented itself. Inevitably, much of the American response to that moment was shaped by fear, but some bold vision of the future was also held forth. President Bush declared that the United States' sorry legacy of manipulating weak and semi-sovereign states for benefit of its power and business interests would end. The deaths and coups his father had either overseen or ignored while head of the CIA would cease. America's gift to the world would not be merely its own robust market, Bush declared; it would be the freedom that stems from democracy. 
Half a decade later, we find ourselves mired in Iraq, the promise of a demo­cratic Middle East occasionally -only occasionally -still dangled before us as an excuse for an invasion completed and justification for an occupation pro­longed. If one watches Fox News, one hears that serious reflection on how we got to this moment should wait until the mission is accomplished. If one listens to the most prominent Democratic voic­es in Congress, one learns that, howev­er unfortunate the war, slow and small steps must be taken to achieve some kind of victory. Right and Left alike appear mired not only in Iraq but in a kind of thinking that cannot move beyond the framework of realpolitik. 
I sympathize with both these posi­tions. One must appreciate how attuned to the media are many of the insurgents in Iraq, and how devastating it can be to question one's country's beliefs at home when they are threatened abroad. And one must commend the gradualism of the political process to the extent that it arises from prudent policy rather than prurient party interest. But to allow this moment of crisis -this intractable conflict in Iraq -to pass without the voicing of some few bold 
. ideals would be a great opportunity missed. 

First, and above all, let us drop the charade of spreading democracy in the Middle East or around the globe. Democracy is not America's gift to the world. Baseball is, followed closely by the poetry of T.S. Eliot. Political institu­tions are relative and malleable, intend­ed to fit the contingent historical condi­tions of a community in its efforts to sustain and promote the common good -which is in a sense absolute and transhistorical. We cannot lend others the institutional forms necessary to attain their own common good unless we can also offer them our particular history. More importantly, we ought not to pretend that the lending of those forms -a few scraps of procedural democracy -in itself constitutes bequeathing a just society. 
Second, as President Bush has acknowledged, our past is filled with educational chapters in the use of for­eign policy for bloodily acquisitive ends. This is something neither recent Democrats nor Republicans have shown much imagination in changing. The chief difference between this second Bush administration and the Kerry administration that was not to be is that the former is unapologetic about using military power in support of American corporate interests. Aside from ceasing to manipulate foreign regimes by clan­destine and public coercion, we might reluctantly concede that America and the rest of the world would all be better off if we learned to shift for ourselves. The difficulties of economic autarky seem lest costly than those of an ever­expanding appetite for foreign products and natural resources. And, of course, autarky need not be confused with iso­lationism. 
These are intended as bold ideas sug­gested rather than easy solutions com­manded; and so, third, we might consid­er how appalling it is that the U.S. mili­tary has permanent bases located across the globe. I understand the strategic practicality of those bases. What I do not understand is how we can accept them as a permanent feature of our foreign policy. If we believe in our state sovereignty as a virtue, we should station our troops at home to guarantee the integrity of our borders. If we believe in the sovereignty of other states as a virtue as well, we should do what is necessary to admire it from afar. 
Presuming these three proposals were followed, we might also suggest that, fourth, satisfied with its own national borders the federal government might also give state lines some integrity once more by returning the United States to its birthright of federalism. And, fifth, as a bizarre technological fulfillment of the American tradition of valuing life and liberty, we might prudently match the advances in our missile defense sys­tems with the destruction of our stock­piles of nuclear weapons. 
These propositions will no doubt frighten some with their extremity and others with their provincialism. My own conviction remains, however, that the paradox of America's present crisis is that the path of cowardice and authori­tarianism lies in continuing military adventures abroad and that of courage and charity lies in a turning inward, a return home, an acceptance of the bounty Providence has given. 
James Matthew Wilson is a Sorin Research Fellow. He proudly admits that the only revolution in which he is truly interested is that ofhis daughter, Livia, who rolled over for the first time while he was writing this column. He can be harangued atjwilson5@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Student goverrunent not 'in1potent' 
Maybe I'm not as enlightened as Amanda Michaels. Maybe I'm not as informed, or as aware of how the campus really operates. But even if this is the case, I would hate to think that the student government is as meaningless and "impotent" as she defmes it to be. 
After reading Michaels's article ("Lack of Realistic Goals Shocks, Disappoints," Feb. 8) I began to think that she and I saw two very differ­ent student government debates last night. I saw four tickets proposing ideas, putting forth plat­forms, and engaging in a lively discussion of what they consider to be hot-button issues around our campus. Michaels apparently saw eight people who either have no idea what student govern­ment means, if they are "clueless," or who, at the best, hope that they can trick and cajole the stu­dent body into voting for them. I saw candidates who really seemed to care about improving Notre Dame, including the somewhat radically minded Padberg and Coggon. Michaels saw presidential and vice presidential hopefuls deluding them­selves, thinking they can make a difference in a University system controlled by the bureaucracy. 
Student government is, granted, not about com­pletely overhauling and modifying the structure of our school. But it certainly is not as ineffective and, ultimately worthless, as Michael's editorial would lead one to believe. The student govern­ment president and vice president, along with the other student government bodies, work what I assume is tirelessly to fully represent the majori­ty student opinion. It may take awhile for their resolutions to amount to anything, but they at least start the dialogue. Michaels claims that she has had "enough 'dialogue' over the past year." I think she has become all too weary of such dis­cussion, though, because dialogue is the essential entrance point for change. 
Individual students do not have the ability to discuss with the University higher-ups their con­cerns. The student government speaks to those concerns and takes upon itself the voice of the universal student. Each of the tickets last night mentioned the need for better communication between government and student; each had a plan for making this communication better than it already is to improve the system of representa­tion that much more. Without the student govern­ment starting dialogues, no progress would ever be made because the administration would con­tinue to view the students as apathetic and unin­volved, a reputation some view the student body to have that is in desperate need of reform. And, to use a gross analogy, without dialogue, the greatest reforms of all time would have never taken place (the calling of the Second Continental Congress, the formation of the National Assembly). 
We need people to continue the dialogue because without it, we stand no chance of ever seeing any change to the status quo. The four tickets running for student government presi­dent-vice president should be applauded for tak­ing the time and effort to see what they think the campus wants and to look for the way to discuss its potential restructuring. 
Andrew Miller 
sophomore 
Dillon Hall 
Feb. 8 
THE ()HSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Friday, February 9, 2007 

TOM HANCULAK/Observer Graphic 
Godmilow, will introduce theBy ERIN MCGINN screening.
Assistant Scene Editor 
"Transamerica" (dir. Duncan 

This Saturday, the DeBartolo Tucker, 2005) 10 p.m. Performing Arts Center will showcase "Transamerica" stars the tal­"Qlassics: Reimagining Sexuality and ented Felicity Huffman of the Self in Recent American Cinema," "Desperate Housewives" as a student-organized academic film Bree, a California native about event that focuses on several impor­to undergo sexual reassign­tant lesbian, gay, bisexual and trans­ment surgery when she discov­gender films produced in the past few ers that her son is living in 
years. New York. 
The films featured in Saturday's After Bree takes an presentation are well regarded and impromptu f1ight to meet her critically acclaimed not only for their son Toby (Kevin Zegers) for the content but also for the ways in which first time, the two begin a they challenge and re-imagine precon­cross-country road trip from ceptions of self, community, history the East Coast back to Los and authenticity. Angeles. 
The "Qlassics" series is a continua­During their voyage, they tion of the academic mission that origi­encounter numerous people nally began with the Queer Film and experiences that force Festival, as well as last year's "Gay & them to examine the precon­Lesbian Film: Filmmakers, Narrative, ceptions that each held regard­Spectatorships." While last year's col­ing the other. lection featured Ang Lee's Academy Her performance in Award winning "Brokeback Mountain," "Transamerica" garnered this year's series provides a new selec­Huffman both an Oscar nomi­tion of films to raise questions and nation and a Golden Globe win change perspectives. Festival. introduced by Film, Television and for Best Actress. 
The "Qlassics" series is sponsored by Theatre professor Pamela Wojcik. The screening will be introduced by the Department of Film, Television and "Go Fish" {dir. Rose Troche, 1994) 4 Indiana University South Bend sociolo­The~e. and co-sponsored by the p.m. "Roy Cohn/Jack Smith (dlr. Jill gy professor Betsy Lucal. 
~,&pglisb and History departments as "Go Fish" is a lesbian-themed inde­Godmilow, 1994) 7 p.m." Each film selected in the "Qlassics" 'VEffl as the Gender Studies Program pendent film directed and co-written "Roy Cohn/Jack Smith" stars Ron series allows viewers to see the com­and the Hesburgh by Rose Troche (with her Vawter as the nominal character plicated issues and Program in Public then-girl­in this film, questions broached Service. friend an adapta­The "Qlassics" film with different view-
Qlassics: Reimagining
The films to be This year,s series Guinevere tion of a series is a points and unique shown in the provides a new Turner). Sexuality and the Self in theater perspectives.
continuation ofthe
"Qlassics" series are The film piece. He Huffman's award­
selection offilms to Recent American Cinema 
academic mission 
tells the interprets winning role in 
raise questions story of the two sepa­that originally "Transamerica," interrela­When: Saturday, February lOth rate roles in for example, brings
and change began with the 

(dir. Cheryl tionships of Where: Browning Cinema, DeBartolo the film. public attention to
perspectives. Queer Film 
Dunye,'1996) 2 p.m. an intimate Performing Arts Center The first is the difficulties that 
"Watermelon group of Cost: Free lawyer Roy Festival. transgendered men Woman" tells the friends. Cohn, who and women face in story of Cheryl (Cheryl Dunye), a young The film follows came to a society that often black lesbian who works in a video the exploits of Max (Turner), a young prominence during the heated and seeks clear-cut definitions of gender store in Philadelphia with her best lesbian student, her roommate Kia (T. controversial Communist investiga­identity and sexual orientation. friend Tamara (Valarie Walker). She Wendy McMillan) and the friends the tions driven by Senator Joseph The films will be shown sequentially tries to make a film about her search two encounter along the way. McCarthy, and who led vicious battles in the DPAC Browning Cinema on for an obscure black actress from the The narrative is laced with a number against the civil rights of homosexuals Saturday. All of the screenings are 1930s who was known as the of discussions on lesbian issues, dream -even though he himself was a free, but do require tickets for admit­Watermelon Woman. sequences and commentaries directed homosexual. tance. Tickets can be reserved online 
As Cheryl continues her search, she toward the viewing audience. "Go Secondly, he portrays Jack Smith, an at the DPAC's Web site, performin­becomes involved with Diana Fish" was nominated for the Grand avant-garde director, actor and author garts.nd.edu, by calling the ticket (Guinevere Turner), a white woman, Jury Prize at the Sundance Film of the provocative film "Flaming office at 574-631-2800 or for purchase which strains her friendship with Festival and won the Teddy Best Creatures" who made homosexuality at the ticket window. Tamara. "Watermelon Woman" won Feature Film award at the Berlin into a central component of his art. the 1996 Teddy Best Feature Film International Film Festival. The film's director, Notre Dame Film, Contact Erin McGinn at award at the Berlin International Film The screening of "Go Fish" will be Television and Theatre professor Jill emcginn@nd.edu 




Directed by Notre Dame Film, Television and Theatre professor Jill Godmilow, "Roy Cohn/ Jack Smith" features a dualistic look at the lives of homosexual men. 


page 2 The Observer+ ELECTION 2007 Friday, February 9, 2007 
LIZ BROWN president 
vice president MARIS BRAUN 
Who They Are 
Brown, student govern­ment's current chief execu­tive assistant, is a junior in Cavanaugh Hall majoring in political science and peace studies. Braun is a sopho­more in Breen-Phillips Hall majoring in finance. 
In Their Words 
+ 
Top Priority: Brown and Braun plan to further address the issue of com­munity relations by inte­grating students into the off-campus community and increasing consumerism at local businesses. Some ideas include a "Taste of South Bend" event, a com­munity-based curriculum and off-campus Domer Dollars. 

+ 
First Priority: "Guest Meal Exchange Program." 



Brown and Braun want to allow students to sub­she was three and had to have surgery to get it stitute one of their unused meals for a meal removed. Braun skied into a tree and is now for­voucher to be used as a guest pass for a separate ever indebted to the friend who saved her. meal in the future. + Notable Quote: "If you don't love what you do, 
you're not going to do it well." 

In Our Words 
+ 
Best Idea: A South Bend Regional Airport Bottom Line shuttle, a convenient way to lower costs for stu­Brown and Braun balance each other well and dents and to encourage use of South Bend trans­their experience in student government is portation. unmatched by any of the other candidates. They 

+Worst Idea: None. are articulate and complementary of one another 

+ 
Most Feasible Idea: Putting suggestion -and both seem genuinely interested in leading forums and student government applications the student body. They have many reasonable online. ideas that they plan to pursue immediately upon 

+ 
Least Feasible Idea: Getting Notre Dame to taking office. No one can predict how smoothly recognize Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day as a the women would transition into the highest posi­University holiday. tions in student government. But the pair's experi­


+ Fun Fact: Brown got a pencil in her eye when ence and professionalism are tops in this election. 
GARRETT COGGON president vice president MIKE PADBERG 
Who They Are 
Coggon is a freshman pre-professional studies major living in Zahm Hall. P a db erg is a freshman engineering major living in Zahm Hall. 
In Their Words 
+ 
Top Priority: Havoc. Their campaign revolves around "wreaking havoc" on campus. This is not clearly defined. 

+ 
First Priority: To begin the five-year process of making Notre Dame an all-male institution again. 


In Our Words 
+ 
Best Idea: Expand the sidewalks so there are lanes for fast and slow walkers. 

+ 
Worst Idea: Squirrel­hunting activities. The 



freshmen want to organize Bottom Line hunting activities and propose squirrels "be Coggon and Padberg are just two more Zahm taken for consumption by slingshots." freshmen running for this office. Although the 
+ Most Feasible Idea: None. havoc-based ideas are entertaining, this ticket 
+ 
Least Feasible Idea: To eliminate women at has no real plans for student government. These Notre Dame (possibly combine the existing freshmen have creative ideas, many of which women with Saint Mary's -creating something relate to eliminating women at the University, like "Notre Mary's"). They would keep female but their interests might be better served in professors, though they would only teach intro­another arena than as leaders of the Notre ductory classes. Dame student body. 

+ 
Fun Fact: Coggon's nickname is Juice. Padberg can wreak havoc with his pinky finger -and Coggon said he can, unfortunately, attest to that. 

+ 
Notable Quote: "We aren't, to say, 'in bed' with any of the University administrators like some of the other candidates." 


---------~-­
Friday, February 9, 2007 The Observer+ ELECTION 2007 page 3 
CIPRIANO RIVERA president 
vice president CATHERINE KANE 
Who They Are 
Rivera, formerly a Marine, is a freshman liv­ing in St. Edward's Hall majoring in accounting and Arabic. Kane is a sopho­more in Welsh Family Hall majoring in history and pre-professional studies. 
In Their Words 
+ 
Top Priority: Rivera and Kane want to improve the quality of life for stu­dents and will focus on goals like having ID cards work at all doors in dorms and expanding Domer Dollars usage options. 

+ 
First Priority: To arrange for roll-over meals in the dining hall so unused meals are not just wasted. 




In Our Words 

+ 
Best Idea: Free tutoring for all students. Bottom Line They want to build on the First Year of Studies The candidates, though they have good inten­tutoring programs and offer sessions for upper­tions, are inexperienced and their ideas are not classmen as well. well researched. The duo is unprepared and not 

+ 
Worst Idea: Student government column in ready to take on the role of representing the The Observer. Notre Dame student body. Their platform is 

+ Most Feasible Idea: Peer advising groups. incomplete, especially in the important realm of 

+ 
Least Feasible Idea: To get rid of Burger community relations. Rivera and Kane's plans King in LaFortune and replace it with Chipotle. for dining hall and meal plan reform are not They have not researched such a change or feasible. The two do not seem to have a true been in contact with the University. idea of what they would be getting into if elect­

+ 
Fun Fact: Rivera is saving money to climb ed, and they should use next year to get more Mt. Everest. Kane helped deliver her mother's involved in student government. 11th child this summer. 

+ 
Notable Quote: ''I'm 23. I'm probably older than anyone in this room." Rivera, on why he shouldn't be typecast as an inexperienced fresh­man. 


DANNY SMITH president vice president ASHLEY WEISS 
Who They Are 
Smith is a junior political science and philosophy major who lives in Alumni Hall. Weiss is a junior English and art history major who lives in Breen­Phillips Hall. 
In Their Words 
+ 
Top Priority: The majority of Smith and Weiss' plans revolve around using technology ­whether to download music, spread Domer Dollars off campus or implement electronic foot­ball ticketing -to benefit students. 

+ 
First Priority: "Ruckus music downloading." Ruckus Network, Inc. pro­vides students access to legal downloadable music and video files to all per­




son with an ".edu" email address -and Smith we?" Said in reference to a football ticket system and Weiss want to make sure Notre Dame stu­based on student IDs, not paper tickets. dents have access to it too. 
Bottom Line In Our Words Both Smith and Weiss have intense, strong per­
+ Best Idea: Multiple Domer Dollar initiatives. sonalities. Both have learned how to lead, with 
+ 
Worst Idea: Creating more payment options Smith serving as Alumni Hall senator and Weiss for on-campus prescriptions and health care. serving as chair of the Senate Gender Relations Smith and Weiss offered to help students pay committee. This ticket has run its campaign their insurance co-pay if they are unable -a admirably and has talked to numerous adminis­nice thought, but unrealistic. trators about its proposals. The two have visited 

+ 
Most Feasible Idea: Student government all dorms to get input and to engage the student blog. body in student government. The resulting plat­

+ Least Feasible Idea: Lower tuition. form is ambitious, but not as achievable as 

+ 
Fun Fact: Smith can whistle five different Brown and Braun's. Ultimately, the downside of ways. At age 12, Weiss was a chess champion­Smith and Weiss' commendable passion is the and she said she never admits that to anyone. less-than-realistic nature -and importance ­


+ Notable Quote: "If USC can do it, why can't of some of their ideas. 
Friday, February 9, 2007 The Observer+ ELECTION 2007 page 4 
The Observer endorses Brown-Braun ticket 
Every year, candidates for student body president and vice president promise a slew of supposedly feasible initia­tives to improve the campus community -and every year, it's a toss-up as to who can actually deliver. Platforms get stacked with every possible upgrade to student life in a desperate attempt to win votes, and this year is no exception. 
With their extensive student government experience, Liz Brown and Maris Braun have the best shot at executing their goals. They're poised and prepared, and while it's almost certain they won't be able to accomplish every platform plan -at least in its original form -the two demonstrate a solid under­standing of what channels they'll have to work through. 
Since last spring, Brown has served as current student body president Lizzi Shappell's chief executive assistant, the No. 3 position in student government. But 

just as importantly, she's Brown and Braun have also been through the spectrum of tried to update the tired related positions: Campus theme of community rela­Life Council task force chair, tions, although whether their Cavanaugh senator and approach will actually do Sexual Assault Advisory anything to strengthen town­Committee member, to name gown interaction is doubtful. a few. Braun has also put in However, broad is a relative the time. Between the two of term in this election, where them, they've sat on seven of each ticket has gravitated the nine Student Senate com­toward student life -proba­mittees. In tak­bly a reaction to 
OJhe

ing over the a past focus on
userver 

helm of student heavy, hard-to­government for approach sub­
Editorial

just a one-year jects, like aca­term, that kind demic freedom of background is essential. and diversity. The Brown­
Brown and Braun also Braun platform isn't especial­boast the broadest platform. ly innovative or unique. As A shuttle to the South Bend mentioned earlier, extending airport seems realistic, since the reach of Domer Dollars is Transpo is always looking to a common theme this cam­attract college-age riders. paign season and central to Organizing a "Taste of South both the Smith-Weiss and Bend" event would also be Cipriano Rivera-Catherine achievable, and getting Kane platforms. Domer Dollars in the Stadium Smith and Weiss come -something also found on across as natural, genuine the Danny Smith-Ashley leaders with lots of ideas. But Weiss platform -should be they don't seem as practiced popular among students. -the presentation is a little rough around the edges. Brown and Braun may not What's more, their ideas -be creative, but they aren't to however well intentioned -blame. As most upperclass­are too expansive, or simply men understand, student gov­confusing. Can two students ernment is inherently limited revolutionize the Health in what it can do. If Notre Services prescription system? Dame doesn't want to create What about the tuition plan? a guest meal exchange pro­And does free television show gram or make Martin Luther downloading from a service King, Jr. Day a University­that already offers free music recognized holiday -two to college students really con-Brown-Braun ideas likely to stitute a legitimate main plat-face major administrative form goal? stumbling blocks -it won't. 
Cipriano Rivera and That's why working within Catherine Kane also mean the system is a necessity. well-but don't know how That's also why having to even begin. Getting leaders who are articulate Chipotle in LaFortune and professional is impor­requires more research than tant. Of the four pairs run­calling the company and ask-ning, Brown and Braun are ing if it has any campus loca-the most polished. The two tions. make the best partnership ­
Freshmen Garrett Coggan when they talk, it's clear that and Mike Padberg are clearly their strengths are comple­in it for the attention. While mentary. Neither dominates returning to a more "tradi-"the other. tiona!" all-male Notre Dame The Observer endorses Liz isn't going to happen, if elect-Brown and Maris Braun for ed, the pair could probably Notre Dame's 2007-08 stu­deliver on its promise to dent body president and vice wreak havoc. president. 

THE OBSERVER'S TAKE ON 

COMMUNITY STUDENT STUDENT GENDER 
THE ISSUES OF THE 2007 ATHL.EllCS
RElATIONS l.JFE APATHY RElATIONS 
ElECTION 


Their\ '\ campaign ;j +, r= . 1 \
ij\.:.:'-.•,.•,,•.,

revolves aroUnd commu­{<:"","'" \. ··., 
·~ ''·. 

~-. ·-·-~ They )\'ant. online
nity relations. R,elated They~·· wau'h"to bring
Th,ey want to"''Qrgan-applications (OJ: stu­Tihe}f tvant"&e pro­' 
plariS include off-campus ize aregular shuttle to DoriHH Dollar~ to the Domer'Dollars and a dent government so it mote greater sexual Stadiui'tl and the Joyce
and from South Bend is a less intimidating assault awareness.

"Taste of South Bend" Center.
airport. 
prOCj:lSS.
fair to get students more acquainted with the city.
Brown & Braun 


The:td.on't address They'" want Notre They have no plans They want to get rid Theywant to start a 
this issue in their plat­Dame women to be relating to student of women at Notre squirrel-hunting pro­
form. .;~ moved to Saint apathy, Dame . gram .. and eat the 
~=~

Joseph's High School. :·»,.. squirrels. 
Coggon & Padberg 


r ,:~. ... .. .•.•'•':"""' \ "\.~·~.
They wantto place 'i ...,,
They want students They want to change Theyh~~~,--~6 plans
suggestion boxe!')in They want a '~w system
to get involved ·in thE:) meal plan system 

the dining halls so stu­related to gender rela­for the away ga'tne ticketSouth Bend through and allow for "rollover deqts c~n anony¢ous­tions. lotteries so it goes fastercommunity service at meals." 
ly submit feedback. and more smoothly.
local organizations. 
-~ ',.~·· 
....,~ ,,,~,.~,..#". ·-· 

Their ideas to improve relations with South Bend focus on getting more Off-cam­pus. students involved in student _govern­ment. 
.... :;L .,.'».,.... 
They" want\,.,free musiC', movie and tele-. vision show download­ing for all students. 

They Waiit.to make the, student ~vern­meht ~_ffice moitr wel­coming and will uti­lize the office's Web site...~ 
i..:. 

They ~a,~t'tQ expand the Student Semi't~ Gender. Rela\tions committee and advocate for more "gender­neutral" activities during Freshman Orientation. 
In addition to Domer Dollars at the Stadium, they' wa,nt to institute a new football ticket system where everything is pn a stu­dent's 10 card. 
Smith & Weiss 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, February 9, 2007 
page 13 

Celebrities capture attention on Valentine's Day 
Given the current holiday climate of love, romance and downright commercial senti­mentality, I figured I'd factor one of my favorite subjects, celebrities, into the Valentine's Day equa­tion. How so? By way of the omnipresent celebrity crush. 
C'mon, you know you've got one. Whether we'd like to admit it or not, all of us are infatuated to some extent with a given celebrity. Or two. Or, in my case, five and counting. 
But what is it about celebrities that cap­tures our emotions? What makes us do crazy things like send marriage proposals to fan mail addresses or wait hours for a nanosecond-long glimpse of Matt Damon? 
For one thing, they're ridiculously beau­tiful. Hardly surprising, given the primping and airbrushing that most celebs undergo to look remotely acceptable to the public. You've seen those "Celebrities are just like us!" columns in "Us Weekly," when Brooke Shields and Kate Hudson are left without makeup or stylists. Scary stuff. 
Maybe it's the films they choose, but there's usually some semblance of realistic emotion coming from our favorite actors, too. There's something we can connect with, and, in the depths of our crazy minds, this makes it easier to picture our­selves marrying Colin Firth and having 2.5 kids and a white picket fence together. 
So on that note, and in the spirit of Valentine's Day, I'm opening myself up to the world and offering my own carefully guarded top five celebrity crushes. They're engaging, they're sweet (well, most of them anyway) and, frankly, they're just plain cute. 

5. Jeffrey Dean Morgan 
If he sounds unfamiliar, picture a scene from ABC's "Grey's Anatomy." Young sur­geon Izzie Stevens fmds herself falling in love with her funny, sweet and downright adorable patient, Denny Duquette. Yes, that affable donor-list dweller was none other than Jeffrey Dean. Despite his ten­dency to play roles in which he dies (his turns on "Grey's," the CW's "Supernatural" and even Showtime's "Weeds" are dis­turbingly mortality-happy), I'm a fan. Slightly morbid? Perhaps, but he's one of a select few who has mastered the "five-o­clock perma-shadow and dimples" combo. 
4. Russell Crowe 
This occasionally ponytail-sporting Aussie needs no introduction. Those who doubt his talent are silenced by the two Oscars in his closet, and those who doubt his sanity, given his tendency to attack any­one from a hotel concierge to the paparazzi, well, we can just forget about that. Anger management? Details, details. Superfluous, really, when you consider that this Renaissance man even plays in a band, the elegantly titled Thirty Odd Foot of Grunts. "Maximus! Maximus!" indeed. 
3. loan Gruffudd 
Why put a virtual unknown on this list? Well, let's face the facts -his last charac­ter was, after all, named "Mr. Fantastic." Best known for playing Reed Richards in "Fantastic Four," as well as the male lead in Disney's immortal "102 Dalmatians," loan is my favorite Welsh import, right down to his almost unpronounceable name (YO-an GRIFF-ith, ifyou're interested­which you shouldn't be, because he's mine. Alas.), and with the upcoming "Amazing Grace," he'll soon be a secret no longer. 


2. Hugh Jackman 

He sings! He dances! And ... he's mar­ried. Despite that minor obstacle, Jackman's versatility alone puts him in my top two, as he manages to pull off intensity ("The Prestige"), action ("X-Men"), romance ("Kate and Leopold") and even Broadway ("Oklahoma," "The Boy from Oz"), all while keeping his trademark smile. Plus, his accent is pretty much amazing. 
1. Harrison Ford 
Han Solo, Indiana Jones, John Book from "Witness" -no need for clarification. Harrison is officially the perfect man. 'Nuff said. 
Happy Valentine's Day, kids-from my boys to yours. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CD REVIEW 
R.E.M. collection includes best of early work 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Scene Ediror 
It's easy to forget, in the wake of their downhill slide throughout the 90s and beyond, that R.E.M. was once one of the best and most popular bands in the world. Yet most people forget that R.E.M. were once the godfathers of alternative, with an appealing sound that blended garage rock, folk music and mumbled lyrics. 
Essentially, R.E.M.'s career has two dis­tinct eras -the independent days (with IRS) and their time with a major label (Warner). Their first (and arguably best) albums were on IRS, and those works form the bulk of "And I Feel Fine...: The Best of the I.R.S. Years," a new compila­tion showcasing their early work. 
The band originally consisted of Michael Stipe (vocals), Bill Berry (drums), Mike Mills (bass) and Peter Buck (guitar). 
R.E.M. is now a trio, with Berry having departed following an on-stage aneurysm. 
bled vocals ­
R.E.M. 
thankfully, few of these tracks have the keening strain
And I Feel Fine 
that he would adopt later on.
Capitol/I.R. S. 
The second disc completes this set and creates a full portrait of the band by compiling outtakes, b-sides

Recommended tracks: 'Radio Free Europe/ 'Pretty 
and rarities. 

Persuasion/ 'The One I Love' and 'Fall on Me' 
Among the high­lights are the orig-The band first formed in the late 70s, with their oldest work appearing in the early 1980s. 
It's hard to believe after the mess that was the post-"Automatic For the People" days, but R.E.M. were one of the great American bands for a brief moment in time, forging the way for a myriad of alternative groups. The band's first five albums form the core of early American independent music, striking at the moment in which post-punk was evolving into alternative. 
This isn't the first disc to compile songs from R.E.M.'s early days, but it's easily the best, rendering 1988's "Eponymous" obsolete. The two-disc set contains all of the band's hits from the period, such as "Radio Free Europe," "Fall on Me," "The One I Love" and "It's the End of the World as We Know It," all while mixing in a good selection of album tracks and fan favorites like "Pretty Persuasion" and "Begin the Begin." The earliest songs jan­gle like The Byrds and feature Stipe's 
pleasant, mum­


inal version of "Bad Day" (which became a hit in a re-recorded version that appeared on "In Time") and the classic "Gardening at Night," one of the band's earliest songs. There are few notable songs missing, like "Superman" and "Wolves, Lower," but on the whole it's a pretty complete set. Even lesser known fan favorites like "Life and How to Live It" and "Cuyahoga" are included, adding real depth to the collection. It's these tracks that both illustrate the breadth of R.E.M. 's early catalogue as well as help explain why they were such an influential act in the 1980s. 
Along with "In Time," a previous com­pilation that documents the Warner years, "And I Feel Fine" summarizes H.E.M. 's career succinctly. At its height, they were a great band that released a lot of classic albums. But most importantly, H.E.M.'s early work retains a timelessness that doesn't necessarily evoke any particular era. This is a hallmark of truly great music, which is why "And I Feel Fine" is such a Wtllcome compilation. 
It's a reminder that, while H.E.M. may be best known for their hits, their great­ness was borne in the misses. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, February 9, 2007 
NHL 

Crosby nets only goal of shootout; Caps dethrone Kings 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Sidney Crosby scored the only goal in a shootout to lift the Pittsburgh Penguins over Philadelphia 5-4 on Thursday night, extending the Flyers' franchise-worst, home-losing streak to 13 games. 
Mike Knuble's second goal with 1:24 left in regulation forced overtime, and Simon Gagne had two power-play goals for Philadelphia, which has the fewest wins (13) and points (34) in the NHL. Flyers captain Peter Forsberg had three assists. 
Held scoreless during regula­tion, Crosby, the league's scor­ing leader, beat Antero Niittymaki on the Penguins' third shot in the shootout. Marc-Andre Fleury then stopped Gagne to win it. 
With Niittymaki pulled for an extra skater, Knuble redirected Alexei Zhitnik's slap shot in to tie at 4. 
Mark Recchi and Erik Christensen scored 30 seconds apart early in the third period, and Jordan Staal and Michel Ouellet also had goals for the Penguins, the NHL's most improved team this season. Pittsburgh has won 10 of 12 with two overtime losses. 
The Flyers haven't won at home since beating former coach Ken Hitchcock in his debut with Columbus on Nov. 24, and have just three victories there in 25 games. 
Philadelphia fell to 0-6-1 against Pittsburgh this season. It was just the second time in 33 games the Penguins won when Crosby didn't have a point. 
Niittymaki stopped Christensen on the first shot of the shootout, but Jeff Carter missed the net on his chance. Evgeni Malkin and Peter Forsberg traded shots off the post. 
Fleury, who hasn't lost in reg­ulation in 11 games since Jan. 9, had an assist on Ouellet's goal. He stoned Mike Richards on a short-handed breakaway in the fmal minute of the second period. 
Recchi, a fan favorite during two stints with the Flyers, gave the Penguins a 3-2 lead by scor­ing his 19th goal during a scramble in front 34 seconds into the third. 
Capitals 4, Kings 3 
Dainius Zubrus poked in a rebound 2:28 into overtime Thursday night to give the Washington Capitals a 4-3 victo­ry over the Los Angeles Kings. 
Zubrus got his stick on the puck as it lay tantalizing close to the goal line, having trickled past goalie Mathieu Garon and off the right post following a shot by Alexander Semin. It was Zubrus' 19th goal. 
Boyd Gordon, Ben Clymer and Chris Clark also scored for the Capitals, and Alex Ovechkin earned a second-period assist to end the longest scoring drought of his young career -he had gone three games without a point. 
Anze Kopitar, Alexander Frolov and Lubomir Visnovsky scored for the Kings, who lost to the Capitals on the road for the first time in nearly nine years. They had gone 4-0 with one tie at the Verizon Center since a 3­2 loss on April 4, 1998. 
The game was as close as one could expect from two strug­gling teams. The Kings entered the game having lost 11 of 13, while the Capitals had dropped nine of 12. 
Kings rookie Kopitar scored the only goal of the first period, a rebound ofT the far post dur­ing a 5-on-3 power play. 
But Garon, giving 40-year-old Sean Burke a night off, allowed three goals in a rough second period. He whiffed glove-side on Gordon's short-handed shot from the blue line, was slow to react on a wraparound by Clymer and let a close-in shot from Clark trickle over the goal line. Ovechkin got the second assist on Clymer's goal. 
Devils 2, Islanders 0 
Martin Brodeur posted his NHL-best lOth shutout of the season on Thursday night, stop­ping 25 shots to lead the New Jersey Devils to a victory over the New York Islanders. 
Jamie Langenbrunner broke a scoreless tie midway through the second period and Jay Pandolfo added a short-handed goal with 3:36 left to lead the Devils to their fourth straight win and 15th in 20 games. 
The Devils moved to within four points of the Buffalo Sabres for the best record in the Eastern Conference. New Jersey has played one fewer game. 
Brodeur, who benefited from a shot off the post by Jason Blake in the second period, had to work hard late to preserve his 90th career regular-season 


AP Islanders forward Andy Hilbert, center, is checked by Devils center John Madden, left, and defenseman Brad Lukowich during New Jersey's 2-0 win in the Meadowlands Thursday. 


shutout. He made a great glove save on Brendan Witt's slap shot with about six minutes to play, before stopping Tom Poti, Blake and Mike Sillinger during the power play on which Pandolfo scored. 
The loss overshadowed an outstanding 35-save perform­ance by Islanders goalie Rick DiPietro, who posted his 11th NHL shutout Wednesday. It also marked the first time in nine games that New York failed to earn a point (5-1-3). 
Brodeur has 90 career shutouts, four behind George Hainesworth for second in NHL history. Terry Sawchuk has the record with 103. 
Langenbrunner started and ended the play on the Devils' first goal. He sent a back pass from along the boards in the Devils zone to Paul Martin. The defenseman made a quick cross-ice pass that sent Zach Parise and Travis Zajac on a break. 
Islanders defenseman Bruno Gervais prevented Parise from getting a good shot, but DiPietro seemed to lose his footing. Langenbrunner swatted the loose puck past him on the sec­ond try. 
Senators 4, Canadiens 1 

Dany Heatley scored his team-high 32nd goal early in the second period and Peter Schaefer scored during a power play later in the period, leading the Ottawa Senators to a victory over the Montreal Canadiens on Thursday night. 
Jason Spezza scored his 21st with 1:31 remaining, an unas­sisted effort that pushed Ottawa one point ahead of Montreal for second place in the Northeast Division. 
Chris Phillips scored in the first and Ray Emery made 27 saves for the Senators, who lost 3-2 in Buffalo on Wednesday. 
Ottawa is tied for fourth in the Eastern Conference with the Pittsburgh Penguins, whose 5-4 shootout win in Philadelphia dropped Montreal to sixth. 
Canadiens rookie Guillaume Latendresse scored on a penalty shot late in the second to cut Montreal's deficit to 3-1. 
The 19-year-old forward was awarded his first career penalty shot with 2:28 remaining in the frame when he was high­sticked and cut on the nose dur­ing a breakaway by Phillips, who was also assessed a minor penalty. That was served after Latendresse scored his 11th goal. 
Ottawa has allowed goals on each of the four penalty shots they have faced this season, including three against Emery at home. 
With Andrei Markov sidelined by a knee injury for a third straight game, Montreal's defense took another hit when veteran Craig Rivet was unable to play because of illness. 
Phillips opened the scoring at 
4:32 with a slap shot off Cristobal Huet's glove for his seventh goal. The Montreal goalie raised his hands to his head as he flopped face down on the ice after watching the puck trickle slowly in behind him 
Huet stuck out his right pad to deny Andrej Meszaros' shot from the slot later in the period. 
Ottawa defenseman Anton Volchenkov recorded his second straight assist 56 seconds into the middle period when Heatley made it 2-0 after he took Jason Spezza's centering pass and beat Huet from the slot. 
Schaefer increased the lead to three with his 1Oth of the sea­son at 16:05. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE 
2001 MERCURY GRAND MAR­QUIS LS. 
4-DOOR. 
EXCELLENT CONDITION. 51,000 MILES. ONE OWNER,$6,500. 
CALL 243-5454. 
FoR RENT 
House available for 2007-2008. Very Large, Close to Campus, Just Renovated. Contact MacSwain@ gmail.com 
andersonNDrentals.com 
Luxury townhome,walk to ND. 
3or4 bed/3.5 bath. 07-08,08-09. $600/Bed/mo. 574-360-2569. 
BEITER HOMES,BETIER AREAS,BETIER DEALS. BlueGoldRentals.com 
2 bdrm condo JPW & Grad wknds. 1 mi to ND. 614-985-5003. 
2-6 BDRM HOMES.$245/PER­SON/M0.574-329-0308 
Newly renovated home for rent, 3 bedrooms, 2 baths, close to ND/SMC. Available now and for 07-08. Inquire @574-289-7791. 

OFF CAMPUS HOUSING. 
BUMBACAHOUSES 

offers you the student big savings for 1 ,2 or 3 yr. lease. Super clean. Visit our web site and compare us to the competition. 
Call Cosimo 277-1875. 
Leases available for 2007-08: 3,4,5 bdrm,3 bath homes,frpls,2-car garages. Call 574-232-4527 or 269­683-5038. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. 
For more information, visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi­weekly ad in The Observer. 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? 
You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confi­dential hotline at 1-800-No-ABORT or visit our website at www.lifecall.org 
ConcordParty.org -We Listen 
COMMON SENSE COMPUTER repair,clean-up,reload, data back­up. Student discount. 1.5 mi. from ND 728 E. Colfax 574-217-8851 


OUND THE NATION 
Friday, February 9, 2007 CoMPilED FROMTHE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVKES page 15 

NBA·· 

Eastern Conference, Atlafltiq,l)Jvisi9fl< 
team record ®nj: dltA 
Toronto 26-23 18•9 7~2 New Jersey 23-27 17·13', L S.3' New York 22·28 131.18 2•$ Philadelphia 17-33 12m s-Ir Boston 12-36 8•23. 4•if Eastern Conference, Central Division 

team record cont . div; . 
Detroit 29·18 21~10 ,H 
Chicago 28·21 20cs 7•2 
Cleveland 28-21 1H4 4·4 
Indiana 26·23 1!M3 6·4 
Milwaukee 19·30 9"20 1.·8 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record conf.. , , div~ 
Washington 28-20 19·10 64 Orlando 25·25 15~16 6-6 Miami 24·25 1M4 3~3 Atlanta 18·30 12·20 4-$ Charlotte 18·31 12·20 3~7 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record confl div. 
utah 32·17 20-10 6-2 Denver 23-24 10~16 5-4 Minnesota 23-26 1<H8 4"5 Portland 20-30 13'·17 4-4 Seatlle 18-31 749 2-'6 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record conj div. . 
Phoenix 39·10 19·9 ·6,2 
L.A. Lakers 30·19 17.10 6~0 
L.A. Clippers 24-25 14~~7 3c5 
Golden State 23'-27 13·16 3-7 
Sacramento 20·26 11.~18 2~6. 
Western Conference, Southwest DMsiOn 
team record 
Dallas 48-9 
San Antonio 33·16 
Houston 31•17 
New Orleans ,22·27 
Memphis 1H8 

team 
1 Connecticut 
2 Louisville 
3' Rutgers 
4 Marquette 
5 USF 
6 West Virginia 
7 Pittsburgh 
8 NOTREDAME 
9 Seton Hall 
10 DePaul 
11 Cineinnati 
12 Sf. John's 
13 Providence 
14 Syracuse 
15 Ge:orgetown 
16 Villanova 
around the dial 
PGA TouR 
AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am 3 p.m., GOLF 
NBA BASKETBALL 
Miami at Cleveland 8 p.m., ESPN Chicago at Golden State 1 0:30 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas -The Dallas Cowboys hired Wade Phillips as their new coach Thursday to replace the retired Bill Parcells. 
Phillips' hiring was con­firmed by a person famil­iar with the negotiations who spoke to The Associated Press on condi­tion of anonymity because the Cowboys had not introduced the coach. 
The Cowboys scheduled a late afternoon news conference. While the team wouldn't give the reason for the news con­ference, it was following the same procedure as it has for past coaching 

hires, including Parcells four years ago. 
The 59-year-old Phillips, the son of longtime Houston Oilers coach Bum Phillips, spent the last three seasons as San Diego's defensive coordi­nator. He is a former NFL head coach who has been in the league 30 of the last 31 years. 
Cowboys owner Jerry Jones left the Valley Ranch complex early Thursday afternoon, apparently to meet with Phillips and his agent, Gary O'Hagan, at a differ­ent location. 
Jones interviewed 10 candidates to become the Cowboys' seventh coach, 
IN BRIEF 
U.S. Senior Open to be_played 
at Sahalee Country Clufi 
FAR HILLS, N.J.-The U.S. Senior Open will be played at Sahalee Country Club in 2010, the first year that Seattle-native Fred Couples will be eligible for the premier event in senior golf. 
Sahalee, a tree-lined course in the Seattle suburbs, hosted the 1998 PGA Championship won by Vijay Singh and a World Golf Championship in 2002 won by Craig Parry. 
It was supposed to hold the 2010 PGA Championship, but the PGA of America took it away and awarded that major to Whistling Straits as part of a long-term deal that includ­ed a Ryder Cup. 
Instead, Sahalee officials went after the U.S. Senior Open, the top event for 50-and-older players. 
Couples, a former Masters champi­on and one of the most popular play­ers in golf, grew up in Seattle. 

the sixth he will hire since buying the team in 1989. Parcells retired Jan. 22 after four seasons in Dallas and 19 as an NFL head coach. 
Phillips joins Tom Landry and Jimmy Johnson as the only Texas natives to be in charge of "America's Team." Parcells is the only other coach who had previous head coaching experience before getting to Dallas. 
His departure would be another loss for San Diego. Last month, Chargers offensive coordi­nator Cam Cameron who became the Miami Dolphins' new coach. 
Phillips' head coaching record is 48-42 over three years with Buffalo, two with Denver and season­ending interim stints with New Orleans and Atlanta. That includes 3-4 as a fill­in and 0-3 in the playoffs, most notably the "Music City Miracle," when Tennessee used a trick kick return for the win­ning touchdown in the closing seconds. 
The last candidates interviewed by Jones were two Super Bowl assis­tants, Indianapolis assis­tant head coach and quar­terbacks coach Jim Caldwell on Wednesday and Chicago Bears defen­sive coordinator Ron Rivera a day earlier. 

Miller gives up lead at world 
champiOnships 
ARE, Sweden -This is what hap­pens when Bode Miller fails to finish with a flourish. 
Leading after the downhill leg of the world championships combined event, Miller was on track for a medal, perhaps gold, until he inex­plicably slowed down in the final gates of the slalom and finished sixth. 
"I was mystified. I thought he would get the job done today. He was in such a good position," said U.S. men's head coach Phil McNichol. "He did a good job at the top, he was car­rying good speed. But then it was a little uncharacteristic. It looked like he was either having a difficult time at the bottom or he backed off. 
"It's a great example of what just finishing gets you. Everyone can give him a hard time for not finishing, but at world championships you go for the win or you finish sixth." 
WilliamsJo p\ay for Fed Cup 
team for firsftime 
Fresh off her Australian Open title, Serena Williams has agreed to play for the U.S. Fed Cup team for the first time since 2003 -joining older sister Venus on the squad that faces Belgium in the first round in April. 
"I was very happy when Serena called me and said she wanted to play, especially coming after her big win in Australia," U.S. captain Zina Garrison told The Associated Press in a tele­phone interview Thursday. "She had texted me a couple of times and said she was contemplating playing Fed Cup. She actually let me know last week she'll play." 
The U.S. Tennis Association made a formal announcement later Thursday. Venus Williams' participation was announced last week. 
''I'm excited to see them back on the court and working hard and defying all the odds of what people think or say about them," Garrison said. 
page 16 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, February 9, 2007 

Friday, February 9, 2007 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Bulldogs break leash on 3s 
Butler sets league mark for long-range jumpers 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -As one of Butler's guards dribbled up the court in the final seconds of the first half, a lonely voice from the stands pleaded for mercy. 
"Campbell," the fan yelled toward Bulldogs forward Pete Campbell. "Please, stop shoot­ing!" 
Sorry, too late. The damage had already been done. 
Campbell made six of his eight 3-pointers in the frrst half and finished with 28 points, and No. 10 Butler showed off its outside touch by making a school record 20 3s in a 92-50 blowout of Cleveland State on Thursday night. 
Campbell finished 8-of-11 on 3s and the Bulldogs went 20­of-33 from behind the arc, also setting Horizon League and arena records. 
"It was one of the best dis­plays of shooting I've ever seen," said first-year Cleveland State coach Gary Waters. "''ve seen one guy get in the zone, but the whole team in a zone? I want to say it was embar­rassing, but we contested most of those shots, and they went 
in." 
Ranked higher in the AP's poll than at any time in school history, Butler (23-2, 11-1 Horizon) extended its winning streak to nine in a row with an eye-popping display of offen­sive efficiency and marksman­ship. 
Butler, which knocked off Notre Dame, Indiana, Tennessee and Gonzaga earlier 

AP Butler forward Brandon Crone, right, drives against Cleveland State forward J'Nathan Bullock in the Bulldogs' 92-50 win. 
this season, dominated the overmatched Vikings (8-18, 2­
11) from the opening tip. Mike Green added 14 points, Brandon Crone 13 and A.J. Graves 12 for the Bulldogs, who set season-highs in points, field goals, assists and margin of victory. 
"On any given night, we're capable of that," Butler coach Todd Lickliter said. "Pete's a great shooter, but it goes back to guys sharing the basket­ball." 
J'Nathan Bullock scored 18 points and Victor Morris 12 to lead the Vikings. 
Campbell, who has made 62 percent (44-of-71) of his 3­point tries in the last 111 games, came off the bench with 14:43 left in the first half. 
By the time Lickliter subbed for him just six minutes later, the 6-foot-7 junior, who began his college career at Indiana­Purdue-Fort Wayne, hit five consecutive 3s -each one tickling the bottom of the net -to help the Bulldogs open a 29-8 lead. 
"A lot of them were really good looks," Campbell said. "We moved the ball extremely well, that was the key to start­ing off well. It just seems like a lot of my shots are open, and I'm just doing my best to knock them down." 
Waters briefly switched from a man-to-man defense to a 2-3 zone, but that hardly slowed the Bulldogs or Campbell. 

NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
In battle of arch rivals, Duke returns the favor 
Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. -Duke was here before, carrying the No. 1 ranking onto its biggest rival's home court -only to have North Carolina snatch it away. 
Not this time. By twice turning back the Tar Heels' late come­back attempts, these determined Blue Devils wouldn't let it hap­pen again. 
Abby Waner scored six of her 16 points during the decisive sec­ond-half spurt, and top-ranked Duke held off No. 2 North Carolina 64-53 on Thursday night. 
"It's a new year. It's a whole new team," Waner said. "I didn't enjoy last year's game here so much. Obviously, you think about what they brought last year, and what you'd change, but it was a whole new year." 
Wanisha Smith had all 17 of her points in the fir"st half, Lindsey Harding added 16 points and Alison Bales had 14 rebounds for the Blue Devils (25­0, 10-0 Atlantic Coast Conference). 
Duke overcame second-half foul trouble and held off the Tar Heels at every critical juncture, improving to 8-0 against ranked teams and snapping a five-game losing streak to North Carolina -including a surprisingly lop­sided loss here last year in the frrst 1-2 matchup in the history of the rivalry. 
"It makes us feel a little bit bet­ter about the losses we had in the past, but not much," Duke coach Gail Goestenkors said. 
Camille Little scored a season­high 21 points and Erlana Larkins had 14 rebounds for the Tar Heels l24-1, 8-1), but star point guard Ivory Latta finished with just nine points on 3-of-20 shooting and missed all 11 of her 3-point attempts. 
"It's pretty simple -we've just got to shoot the ball better," North Carolina coach Sylvia Hatchell said. "I don't know we've ever had a game ... where the rest of the team shot as poor­ly as we did." 
North Carolina twice rallied to tie in the second half, the last coming when Alex Miller's jumper with 7:50 left made it 47­47. 
Duke countered with a clinch­ing 14-3 spurt led by Waner and Bales. Bales started the run with a wide-open layup and later added an 18-footer, and Waner then scored three straight bas­kets. 
Her last field goal deflated the sellout crowd at Carmichael Auditorium. Waner drove toward the corner, then pulled up and knocked down a jumper, making it 57-50 with 2:40 to play. 
"I thought that was the dag­ger," Goestenkors said. 
Duke's lead grew to 61-50 on a late free throw by Bales, who overcame a rough offensive game -finishing with just seven points -by blocking seven shots and affecting several others. 
"Offensively, she didn't score much, but defensively, she was a monster," Goestenkors said. "She changed so many shots." 
Duke avenged its previous visit to Chapel Hill -a 77-65 loss to the Tar Heels -and earned its first victory against North Carolina in the post-Alana Beard era. 

NBA 
Pierce ready to read up on Celtics' long tale of woes 
Associated Press loss in a row -one for each of Pierce missed 22 games with a the titles that once made them stress reaction in his foot, then the pride of the NBA. The league went back to sick bay with an 
BOSTON -Paul Pierce didn't record of 23 straight in one sea­infection and fever just as he was get a chance yet to read the inspi­son was set by the Vancouver on the verge of returning. rational book Celtics owner Wyc Grizzlies in 1996 and matched by "Obviously, it's a tough break," Grousbeck left for him. The the Denver Nuggets in '98. coach Doc Rivers said. "But we've Boston captain was in the hospi­"Every game they're close," gotten used to that." tal with an elbow infection that Grousbeck said. "Every game, The Celtics are 2-21 without derailed his return from a bad there's two or three players that Pierce, prompting one fan to hold foot, and the book remained in succeed. There's someone scoring up a poster that said: "Wanted: his locker. 23, someone scoring 27, getting Paul Pierce. Reward: a win." 
Wally Szczerbiak left the book rebounds, people diving for loose Pierce was released from the behind when he went to get his balls. There's a lot to like about it, hospital on Thursday. ankle taped after a 91-79 loss to and they're playing hard for Doc. Szczerbiak had already the Miami Heat extended "But it's time for a 'W."' sprained each ankle before Boston's franchise-record losing The Celtics won 16 titles from attempting to block a shot on streak to 16 games Wednesday. 1957-86 to establish themselves Wednesday night and landing on And Tony Allen's copy of "The as the NBA's most prolific the foot of Leon Powe, who was Adversity Advantage," by blind dynasty. But it's been a long time sitting near the end of the Bosto·n mountaineer Erik Weihenmayer, since the Celtics, who named bench. was still in his locker, too; it's their mascot "Lucky" and wear a "Step on your teammate's foot probably tough to carry a lot of shamrock on their uniforms, have on the bench? What else can go stuff when you're walking in a had any good fortune. wrong?" Szczerbiak said. "It's full leg cast. The deaths of Heggie Lewis and like, gee. it's one of those things. 
The first blind climber to sum­Len Bias; the transparent tanking ... It's just frustrating, right when mit Mount Everest, Weihenmayer of the 1996-97 season in an I was starting to feel better." was honored during a break in attempt to obtain Tim Duncan, l{ivers joked that he would go the Heat game Wednesday night only to get a bad draw in the lot­to a seven-or eight-man rotation as part of the Celtics' "Heroes tery; the disastrous tenure of Hick -"If we have seven or eight Among Us" campaign. Grousbeck Piti.no-all set back the quest for guys" -but otherwise wouldn't insisted the visit was long­banner No. 17. change his approach. planned and not timed to snap This year, it's been injuries that "First of all, I am who I am. I the team out of its franchise­left the youngest team in the ain't changing," he said. "I record losing streak. league without veteran leader­believe in what I believe in oflim­
"If there's an advantage in ship, or talent. sively and defensively. And that adversity, I haven't found it yet," Center Thea Hatliff played just ain't changing. And I believe it's he said. two games before being sidelined the right thing, you just have to 
Neither has his team. with a bulging disc. Allen tore his stick with it." The Celtics matched their ACL just as he was emerging with But it would be nice to get a lit­magic number with their 16th a streak of 20-point games. tle luck. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 9, 2007 
CYCLING 

Embattled Landis won't race in France in 2007 
the French agency to hold off "Floyd is pleased that the Lance Armstrong. until after the U.S. ageney AFLD has agreed with his Landis insisted again on his rules. The USADA will hold its council's request that they sus­innocence at a fundraising hearings May 14. pend this proceeding until the rally in New York on 
"In this case, and in order to (USADA) hearing is held in Wednesday night. He vowed to avoid any misunderstanding, I May," Henson said by tele­fight the "lack of leadership at agree to voluntarily not partici­phone. the top of cycling and at the pate in any professional or Landis' urine sample after a top of the anti-doping agen­amateur cycling nvent in 17th-stage win in last year's cies." France until December 31, Tour de France was found to Bordry said Landis reserves 2007, and in par-contain elevated the right to contest the French ticular the Tour testosterone to lab, but maintains the "A" and de France 2007," epitestosterone "B" samples both showed posi­
"We will let Landis 
Landis said in levels. He risks tive readings. 
defend himselfas
the letter. being the first "The 'A' sample tested posi­
Bordry said he wishes." rider in the 104-tive for testosterone. So we Landis deserves year history of the asked Mr. Landis, at the time, to be heard by race to be stripped if he wanted to do a 'B' sample
Pierre Bondry
the USADA. of his title. test," Bordry said. "A 'B'-sam­
AFLD president
However, Bordry Prudhomme has ple test was done at Chatenay­
Tour de France champ agrees to doping terms 
Associated Press 
PARIS -Floyd Landis will skip the Tour de France -and all races in France this year ­as part of an agreement with French doping authorities in a case that could strip him of cycling's most prestigious title. 
Last year's Tour champion had hip-replacement surgery 4 1/2 months ago and was unlikely to have competed in this year's Tour. l-Ie agreed Thursday not to race again in France until 2008, and in return the French anti-doping agency postponed its decision on whether to suspend him from competing in France for a maximum of two years because of a positive doping test. 
"Floyd is pleased that the AFLD has agreed with his 
counsel's request that they sus­pend this proceeding," spokesman Michael Henson said. 
Earlier, AFLD president Pierre Bordry said Landis "understood perfectly that if he didn't act today, we would start the procedure immediately." 
Landis will go before the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency on May 14 and, following that, the AFLD will deliver its verdict in June. 
"We will let Landis defend himself as he wishes," Bordry said. 
The American, who has denied wrongdoing, did not appear at Thursday's meeting of the AFLD's nine-member panel, but sent a lawyer who read his request for a delay. 
In the letter, a copy of which was obtained by The Associated Press, Landis said the parallel cases in France and the United States were complicating matters. lie asked echoed Tour de France president Christian Prudhomme's senti­ment that the American agency was dragging out its process. 
Landis spokesman Michael Henson said Landis was happy with the AFLD's decision. 

Co-sponsored by the Saint Mary's College Office of Special Events, Center for Spirituality, and Justice Education Program. 

ND TRACK 
rl"~}·
,.... lP.

NDtravels 
" 
lll 
I

to Windsor 


~JjJ\\T ()llK 
A humorous and

for 111eet 
challenging window on 
the world of Trappist 
monk Thomas Merton: 
· solitary, celebrity, and
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
ordinary man. 
February 15 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame is doing all it can to qualify as many athletes as 
7:30P.M. 

possible for the Big East champi­
Little Theatre 

onships in one week, and as a 
Purchase tickets at the 

result will compete Saturday at 
Saint Mary's College box office or by

the Windsor Team Challenge in 
calling (574) 284-4626. 

Windsor, Ontario. "[The goal is] to give those kids 
MoreauCenter.com 

that are there the opportunity to get qualified for the Big East-or to try to just do a little sharpen­ing, or tapering you might say, for the Big East championship the following weekend," Irish coach Joe Piane said. 
Piane is sending 22 Irish ath­letes up north, an equal number of men and women. The majority of the Irish athletes are sprinters, although there are three distance runners going on the women's side. The only jumper participat­ing this weekend will be sopho­more Blair Majcina. There are no distance runners for the men's team. 
"It's mostly kids that either haven't quite qualified yet for the Big East meet or they might need a little sharpening," Piane said. 
One strategy Piane hopes to use for the athletes competing this weekend who have already qualified for the Big East is to have them run in an event that is shorter than what they are used to racing. 
"We might put a quarter-miler and put him in the three hun­dred, or we might take someone who is in the two hundred and put them in the sixty," he said. "It's really just to get kids a little bit sharper for the Big East." 
The remaining Irish athletes not participating in the Windsor Team Challenge will continue to practice as usual this weekend in order to stay sharp for next weekend's conference champi­onship. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
said the Tour no longer considers him the winner. 
Landis argues that the Chatenay-Malabry laboratory which carried out the tests is unreliable, a view shared by seven-time Tour champion 
Malabry in the presence of an expert nominated by Mr. Landis, (and) paid by him." 
Also present, Bordry said, were "an expert nominated by the USADA, and an expert nominated by the International Cycling Union." 

\1a1entinfl',; <Vny W{ldn{l~days f'flbruary t4 
Say "you're special" with Heart-Shaped Bagels 
Flavors: Your choice when pre-ordered by Monday, February 12 
Large Bagels $1 each 
Studebagels 
277-4440 
D11ringJunior Parent Weekend Experience elegant dining on the Notre Dan1e Can1pus The perfect setting forJunior Parent Weeker1d is Sarin,s. Our thoughfi1llyprepared.meals, served bya professionally trained staff;, ensure the ultimate Notre Dame experience. Reserf/--ations reconunended 574 631-2020 TJ'"Wl-T: sorins.r1d.con1  

Friday, February 9, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S TENNIS 
No.9 Irish take five-game win streak on road 
unaware." By DEIRDRE KRASULA The Irish have dominated in the Sports Wrirer past against the Badgers --Notre 
Dame is 42-16 against Wisconsin 

Upsets aren't anything foreign to in all-time series. The Badgers Notre Dame and Wisconsin. The have struggled against the Irish in question is, can the Badgers get recent years, failing to produce a another one tllis weekend? win in their last fifteen meetings 
The No. 9 Irish come off' a suc­Notre Dame defeated cessful three-match weekend at WISconsin 6-1 at home last year. home where they defeated No. 13 Notre Dame will look to contin­Florida State and Toledo 5-2 and ue to dominate in doubles play, 
7-0. respectively.  Bayliss said. The  
The Irish also upset then No. 8 Duke 6-1 to further their  "It was a great weekend for us, but  Irish took the dou­ble point in both matches against  
record to 5-1.  it's kind oflike  Toledo and Duke to  
"It was a great weekend for us but it's kind of like win­ winning the first inning ofa  take the 1-0 lead early. The team will look to gain  
ning the first inning of a 9-inning game," Notre Dame coach Bobby Bayliss said. "Our  nine-inning game. Our season is not a spring, it's a marathon. "  that advantage again in Madison. "It helps so much to start off with that doubles point in  
season  is  not  a  hand," Bayliss said.  
sprint it's marathon." Wisconsin  is  a a  Bobby Bayliss Irish coach  "The momentum that it gives you, particularly on the  
clear  underdog  road, puts you in a  

against Notre Dame, even after position where you feel like really upsetting No. 10 Miami 4-3 on the have a chance to win the match." road Monday. The match was tied A win against Wisconsin will at three with only the No. 2 singles give the Irish the consistency that match left to play. Badger junior Bayliss said the team has been Nolan Polley dropped the first set looking for. Notre Dame upset 3-6 to Josh Cohen, but rallied to Ohio State for the Buckeyes' first take the next two sets 6-4, 7-6 for loss, who finished the season No. victory. 4, last year. But the team did not 
"For an indoor team to go out­see the desired results for the rest doors and play a match like that of the season. Although they won with no preparation is a pretty the Big East Championship and impressive feat," Notre Dame finished 19-9, losing to top-seeded coach Bobby Bayliss said. "So we Georgia in the Sweet 16 of the certainly won't be caught NCAA Tournament, just playing in the postseason was not good enough. Bayliss said that senior captain Stephen Bass along with fellow classmates Barry King and Ryan Keckley have really aided the Irish in their quest for success tllis year. 

"I think the senior leadership has been extraordinary this year," Bayliss said. 

a challenging team, and welcomes the opportunity. 
"It's going to be a good opportu­nity for us because in the next rankings WISconsin is going to go way up having beat a top-1 0 team," he said. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
Notre Dame will look to build off its success as they head to Wisconsin Friday night to prepare for Sunday. Bayliss said the team would have to make an adjust­ment to WISconsin's slower courts will be a trial for Notre Dame but that the practice time Saturday will help. 
Bayliss expects Wisconsin to be 
MLB 
Selig says MLB will recognize Bonds if he passes Aaron 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO --Barry Bonds might get a telephone call from baseball commissioner Bud Selig instead of a hand­shake if the San Francisco Giants slugger breaks Hank Aaron's home run record. 
Selig wouldn't say Thursday whether he would attend any Giants games if and when Bonds closes in on the mark. 
Selig insisted that Major League Baseball would cele­brate Bonds' potential feat exactly as it does any other major milestone, such as a pitcher's 300th win. Last year, Selig telephoned San Diego clos­er Trevor Hoffman when he became the career saves leader. 
"I wasn't there when Roger Clemens won his 300th game. That's a matter I'll determine at some point in the future," Selig said at a baseball luncheon hosted by Fox Sports Bay Area. "Let me say it, and I'm not going to say anymore. That's it." 
Does he even want Bonds to pass the 755 homers of Aaron, who played his final two sea­sons in 1975 and '76 with the Selig-owned Milwaukee Brewers? 

"It is a fact Hank Aaron and I have been friends for 50 years, close friends," Selig said. "When you're the commissioner, you just don't think about that. I have said before if and when Barry Bonds breaks that record it will be handled the same way 

I ,,--------------------------------------------~ \ 
Receive a 2 liter Coke product for 99¢ with the purchase of a$5 To Go Pizza. 

'' ,
'~--------------------------------------------' 


that every other record in base­ball that's been broken was handled." 
There has been wide specula­tion Selig would prefer that Bonds just retire now to avoid further scrutiny as the seven­time NL MVP pursues the mark of Hammerin' Hank. The 42­year-old Bonds, whose $15.8 million, one-year contract with the Giants remains unresolved less than a week before the team begins spring training, begins his 22nd major league season only 22 homers from passing Aaron --and Bonds is healthier now than in recent seasons. 
"This is a matter between the Giants and Barry," said Selig, who was treated to his favorite frozen custard dessert flown in from Milwaukee. "As far as I'm concerned, as long as things that are being done are in the best interest of the sport, whether it's contractual or any­thing else, I don't make those judgments." 
Bonds and the Giants have differing views of certain lan­guage in the deal and Bonds has yet to sign a revised version that omits the promotional clause that runs afoul of baseball's new labor agreement. The version Bonds signed did contain a pro­vision that says the Giants can terminate the contract if Bonds is indicted. 
This season, there will be fur­ther speculation about whether his quest for the record was fueled by steroids. Bonds long has denied knowingly using steroids. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 9, 2007 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish look to build upon No.2 finish at ITAs 
match this spring because pie team members. ranked teams from across so far in dual match play.
Team to face first Big 

they played too much in the Meanwhile, the Irish are the country. "[Ciobanu is] a great com­Eastopponentof'07 fall. recovering from their 4-2 "[How we played there I petitor," Louderback said. "[Seniors Christian and loss against No. 1 Georgia gave us the confidence that "She volleys well, hits Catrina Thompson] and Tech in the ITA Team Indoor we can play ground By CHRIS HINE [sophomore] Kelcy Tefft have Finals Sunday. with anyone in strokes well Spons Writer to sit out a match, and we "I thought we played well the country," "/ thought we played and serves may sit out one or two on against Georgia Tech," Louderback well against Georgia well. She's got On the heels of their sec­Friday," Louderback said. "There are a lot of speed
Tech. We definitely
ond-place finish at the ITA Louderback said. "We defi­10-15 teams and covers the National Team Indoor said. "We won't "It's our first Big nitely had a that could win had a chance to win it court. As a Championships last weekend decide who will chance to win it the NCAA ifwe could've won the freshman
East team we play

-the best in program histo­sit until Friday if we could've Tournament especially, she
doubles point.,, 
ry -the Irish resume dual morning. and they are won the doubles this year, and does a great meet play today against Big They've had always big point. [Georgia that's a good job." East foe Louisville at 2 p.m. some injury matches.,, Tech I played a thing." Jay Louderback So far this at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. problems so lot more confi­Freshman Irish coach season, Notre 
"It's our first Big East team we'll see where dent after they Cosmina Dame has we play and they are always they're at Jay Louderback got the doubles Ciobanu contin-posted four big matches," Notre Dame Friday morn­Irish coach point." ued her strong play at the wins against teams in the coach Jay Louderback said. ing." Sunday's tournament, winning each of ITA top-25 rankings, includ­
Louderback said the No. 3 Louisville match marked the four singles matches she ing a 4-3 win over No. 6 Irish (5-1) will use this enters the contest after drop­the first time in 10 tourna­played. Ciobanu finished sec­Northwestern in the semifi­match against the No. 71 ping its last two matches ment appearances the Irish ond to fellow freshman nals of the ITA Indoors. Cardinals as an opportunity against Troy and SMU, and advanced to the finals of the Colleen Rielley at the ITA to sit at least one of three the team has struggled with ITA Indoors, a tournament Midwest Regionals in Contact Chris Hine at players who need to miss a illness and injuries to multi-that featured many top-October and has a 6-0 record chine@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
KalatnazOO is next test for Belles 
By DAN COOPER Sports Writer 
The Belles will look to rebound from Monday's debacle at Calvin when they travel to Kalamazoo and face the Hornets Saturday at 3 p.m. 
Saint Mary's had won four straight before the 75-44 loss to Calvin. The Belles shot a dismal 21 percent from the floor in that game and committed a season­worst 17 turnovers. 
The Belles -now 9-11 overall and 8-5 in conference play ­will face the Hornets, who are 3-18 and 2-11 in the MIAA, for the second time this year. The Belles easily won the first meet­ing in a 70-42 romp. 
With the conference tourna­ment fast approaching, the Belles hope to hold on to the third spot they currently occupy in the conference standings. 
Junior guard Alison Kessler will look to surpass the 1,000­point mark for her career in Saturday's game. Kessler is just 13 points shy of the milestone, which only seven players in school history have attained. 
The Belles have worked on rebounds during the last few weeks of practice, and their hard work has shown come game time. Against Calvin, Saint Mary's outrebounded the Comets by a 46-42 margin. 
Another Saint Mary's strength is free throw shooting. The Belles have stayed consistent from the charity stripe all year, making it to the line 99 times more than their opponents. Free throws account for 25 percent of Saint Mary's scoring output this season. 
After a tough loss, the Belles are favored against Kalamazoo. The win would be crucial to building momentum for the rest of the season. 
'EAAilVlKa 


SUMMER LANGUAGE GRANTS 
UNDERGRADUATE COMPETITION TO CONTINUE FOREIGN LANGUAGE STUDY DURING THE SUMMER. 
Grants are designed to cover only a portion of program costs. 
For details and application forms, go to: 
http://www.nd.edu/-sumlang/ or 
Pick up applications from the Office of International Studies-(154 Hurley Building-Ph 1-5203) 
application deadline: Friday, MARCH 2, 2007 



Sponsored by the Office of International Studies, the College of Arts and Letters, the Nanovic Institute for European Studies & the Mendoza College of Business 
Turtle Creek ApartiDent HoiDes 
THE Place to be at ND!! Join us at the Clubhouse on February 14th for a 
Valentine's Day Open House 
From 10 am to 6 pm! All Current & Future Residents are Invited to Dip into a BUFFET of 
CHOCOLATE GOODIES TREATS, OHMY! 
1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 46637 Ph 574-272-8124
Contact Dan Cooper at dcooper1 @nd.edu 

Friday, February 9, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Defend 
continued from page 24 
game -in a December series, allowing three goals in each of their two wins over the Wolverines, and have since lowered their goals-allowed average to 1.73 goals per game. 
Irish goalie Dave Brown con­tinues to make a strong bid for the llobey Baker every week­end, holding the second-best goals-against average in the country (1. 70) behind Vermont's Joel Fallon (1.66). Brown's dominance is aided by the 22.9 shots per game that his blueliners allow the oppo­nent to get off. 
"You're not going to get many pucks past [Brown]. that's your first issue," Mavericks coach Mike Kemp said. "They have a good, solid defensive corps and just with the system they play, they don't give you many options. They always have numbers back." 
Another key matchup will be the battle between the Maverick power play and Irish penalty kill. The two teams met Nov. 24-25 in Omaha and split a series that saw Notre Dame lose 3-2 on a late power­play goal by defenseman Juha Uotila in the second game. 
The Mavericks power play has continued to capitalize on its opponent's mistakes, con­verting .217 percent of its chances. But the Irish penalty kill has made a name for itself as well, successfully running down .915 percent of its man­disadvantage situations. 
"That's part and parcel of their whole offense," Jackson said. "The power play ­you're going to have to defend well against it too. And the best defense is not taking penalties, if you can avoid it." 
Notre Dame got banged up as the season progressed into the grind of late January and early February, losing three players to injury and sickness. 
Junior defenseman Dan VeNard has missed over a month due to a lower body injury, and senior forward Josh Sciba will be out for at least this weekend with an upper body injury. Sophomore center Christian Hanson will continue to sit out for the series against the Mavericks with mononu-cleosis, but he began to skate in practice this week for the first time in several weeks. 

"[The injuries disrupt] things because this time of the year, you like to get your lines the way you want them for the rest of the year," Jackson said. "I keep switching them because we can't find good combina­tions. When everybody was healthy, I just had a pretty good feeling of what our best combinations were." 
Nebraska-Omaha has had its own serious problems recently, suspending two of its players for the season this week. 
The Omaha World-Herald reported Monday that the Mavericks suspended senior Bobby Henderson and sopho­more Adam Bartholomay for the remainder of the season on violation of team rules after they were arrested on suspi­cion of public intoxication Sunday. 
With 10 goals, Bartholomay was the third-leading goal scorer for Nebraska-Omaha and had played both offense and defense in 30 games for the Mavericks. Henderson had one assist in 12 games. 

"It's like I've always said, one person's misfortune is another person's opportunity," Kemp told The Observer Thursday. "So hopefully some­body will pick up the slack." 
Tonight's game will begin at 
7:30 in the Joyce Center, while Saturday's contest will get a 
7:05 start. 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 

WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish open season at Darhnouth 
ND looks for revenge against the team that ended its 2006 season 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
At the beginning of last sea­son, Notre Dame was picking up the pieces from a 3-12 year. This season, though, the Irish are preseason No. 5 nationally. 
What a difference a year makes. 
The Irish surprised the lacrosse world last season with a 15-4 record and trip to the NCAA semifinals. So it's easy to see why they aren't sneaking up on anyone in 2007. 
The Irish open their season Saturday, traveling to face No. 6 Dartmouth in an exhibition match. Although it is presea­son, the game will carry a little extra meaning. 
Dartmouth, the last team Notre Dame faced last season, eliminated the Irish in the NCAA semifinals 14-8. 
"Facing Dartmouth again will definitely be extra motivation for the team," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "We're really excited to go against someone new after weeks of scrimmag­ing against ourselves, and this game will be a good gauge of what is working and what needs change." 
Facing the highly ranked Big Green squad will help prepare the Irish for a very difficult schedule, featuring seven teams ranked in the preseason top 20. Senior Meghan Murphy said the team enjoys the chal­lenge. 
"We would have it no other way," Murphy said. "We know we need to be tested and chal­lenged throughout the season to fine-tune our skills and strategies." 
The team will be led by a tal­ented group of returning starters, including three mem­bers of the preseason All-Big East team. Junior midfield/attack Caitlin McKinney and sophomore mid­field/attack Jillian Byers were unanimous selections to the team, joined by senior defend­er Meaghan Fitzpatrick. 
While outside expectations for the Irish are very high this season, the team's expectations may be higher still. 
"It's not about just getting to the NCAA semis anymore," senior midfielder Lena Zentgraf said. "It's about win­ning the next two games for the championship." 
Notre Dame's other main goal this season will be win­ning the inaugural Big East tournament. 
"We're tired of finishing run­ner-up -we want to win the Big East and take our place among the other elite teams at Notre Dame," Coyne said. "This is absolutely the most talented and experienced team I've ever coached, and the Big East and national champi­onships are our ultimate goals." 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 9, 2007 
ankle Jan. 27 against Villanova -had 15 points and nine rebounds. 
Chandler earned the Endall Smith Award as the game's MVP and gave the Irish fits inside all night. 
"[Chandler's] so active. Physically he's at a whole other level -a very, very talented young man," Brey said. "He plays with such a nice demeanor. He never gets rat­tled. There's not a better raw talent in our league than this kid." 
Notre Dame got off to a fast start, utilizing offensive rebounds and Blue Demons turnovers to take an 11-0 lead. Irish forward Luke llarangody had four points during that stretch, but would not score the rest of the night. lin fin­ished with four points on 2-for­1 0 shooting and nine rebounds. 
The Blue Demons didn't panic, attacking the Irish defense to get high-percentage shots and get back in the game. They went on a 10-0 run to take a 24-20 lead with 10:24 left in the first half. 
After that, DePaul went eold, converting two of its last 11 field-goal attempts in the half. But the Irish could not capital­ize. 
Notre Dame's lead never got higher than three the rest of the game. 
The second half saw the teams go back and forth. DePaul started hot again, grab­bing a 48-42 lead with 14:36 left. but then cooled off. The Irish chipped away, and then retook the lead 55-54 with 
8:34 remaining, but would not be on the upside of the score­board until Jackson's 3-pointer with just over two minutes left. 
Offensively, the Irish shot 41 percent for the game, but only 


Loss 
continued from page 24 
the ball -and Kurz's lower body. Kurz and Irish coach Mike Brey looked for a foul call, but received nothing. 
"I definitely think I got fouled, but you know, what are you going to do," Kurz said. "You can't harp on one play. It's in the referee's hands, and you're on the road and tough things happen." 
Brey said he designed the final play for Jackson to get into the lane and make some­thing happen off the dribble. 
"They defended [the last play] very well. Having said that, we still had some oppor­tunities with rebounds and stuff," Brey said. "Usually a put-back gets you the win or the tie in those situations. We had two of them and couldn't convert it." 
The Irish (18-6 overall) grabbed a 66-63 lead with 2:04 remaining in the game, thanks to a 3-pointer by guard Tory 

DePaul guard Cliff Clinkscales (12) and his teammates celebrate with students and fans on the floor of the Allstate Arena after DePaul's 67-66 win over Notre Dame Thursday. 
Duke 
continued from page 24 
men's and women's rankings. 
Last week at the Midwest Duals, the Irish finished 3-0 on both the men's and the women's side. The Notre Dame men beat Indiana 22-5, Michigan State 20-7 and Purdue 24-3. 
The Irish women topped the Hoosiers 23-4, the Spartans 25­2 and the Boilermakers 27-0. 
The women foilists turned in the best performance for Notre Dame, finishing 27-0. 
But Bednarski knows the Irish must do even better to beat the top teams at Duke. 
"I hope they will fence better than last week," he said. "The strongest challenge will be on the side of the epee fencers.... It will be a challenge for our epees, both women and men." 
Air Force senior epeeist Jason Stockdale finished eighth in the 2006 NCAA Championships. The Falcons will also challenge the Irish in the sabre, Bednarski said. 
"They are expanding their program," Bednarski said of 

Air Force. "I believe that they will be a challenge for our girls, especially." 
On the men's side of the sabre, the Irish will be without 2006 NCAA runner-up Patrick Ghattas. The senior will be competing in international competition this weekend to garner points and increase his national ranking ahead of the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games. 
No matter the personnel problems, Bednarski said Duke is always a tough environment. 
"It's a lot of noise, a lot of cheering and a lot of emotions going around," he said. 
That is, if the Irish ever get there. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
DePaul 
continued from page 24 
Smith, who scores 15.5 points per game, is one of three starters who average more than 10 points per game. Guards Allie Quigley (15.3 points) and Jenna Rubino (12.2 points) are the other two. 
"Even the ones that aren't averaging double figures will be pretty soon," McGraw said. "They do have a very balanced team and they've had a lot of injuries and recently they've gotten a couple of kids back." 
The Blue Demons' offensive style may present challenges to the Irish. The team lacks a bona Jackson. A rebound bucket by DePaul forward Marcus Heard cut the lead to one. 
, Still, the Irish had a 66-65 lead with 27 seconds left and the shot clock turned off. That meant the Blue Demons (14­11, 5-6 Big East) would have to foul. Notre Dame put the ball in the hands of its best free­throw shooter, guard Colin Falls, near half court. 
DePaul guard Draelon Burns stole the ball from Kurz and found a streaking Chandler down court, who slammed in the 6 7-66 go-ahead bucket for the Blue Demons. 
"Certainly they were in a sit­uation where I thought they were going to foul and proba­bly would have sometime in that sequence," Brey said. "I guess we lost the ball some­how. That's the guy I want shooting free throws. So I felt pretty good when he caught it 70 feet from the basket." 
Falls led the Irish with 20 points on 7-for-11 shooting, while Kurz -who was back in the starting lineup for the first time since suffering a sprained 
ALLISON AMI:IROSE/The Observer 
fide center, which lends its offense to a more fast-paced, guard-dominated style. 
"They really play a five out, five guards kind of offense," McGraw said. "We're going to have to figure out how to guard that. They have good 3-point shooters. It's going to be a diffi­cult matchup for us because they don't have the big center like we have." 
Poor shooting has hampered the Blue Demons in big games. In its 78-61 loss to St. John's, DePaul sank only 19 percent of its attempts from 3-point range. In the 86-68 loss to Louisville, the Blue Demons only managed 29 percent of their field goals. 
Notre Dame comes into the game having won its last two 
SPRING BREAK 
INFORMATION 800-488-8828 
www.sandpiperbeacon.com 
fREE SPRING BREAK MODEL SEARCH CALENDAR* 
'VALID FOR FIRST I 000 RESERVATIONS. 
games, an impressive offensive display against West Virginia and a defensive shutdown of Louisville. Guard Charel Allen led the Irish with 21 points on 8-of-15 shooting against the Cardinals, and guard Breona Gray was 3-of-6 from 3-point range, scoring 12 total points. 
Freshmen Ashley Barlow and Erica Williamson saw consider­able playing time against Louisville and made good use of it. Barlow dropped 15 points and grabbed six rebounds in 30 minutes while Williamson helped neutralize Cardinals center Chauntise Wright in the paint. 
DePaul averages 41.5 rebounds per game, 1.6 more than it allows its opponents and 
ERASMus BooKs 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 232-8444 

7-for-22 beyond the arc and scored only five bench points to DePaul's 20. The Blue Demons kept Notre Dame guard Russell Carter in check, limiting him to just nine points, while the Irish cracked down on the defensive glass, allowing just six second­chance points. Burns grabbed seven rebounds to go along with 11 points on 4-for-12 shooting for the Blue Demons. 
The Irish wrapped up their three-game road trip with a 1­2 record and will have a week off before facing Providence next Thursday at the Joyce Center. 
"Big East basketball is hum­bling, but I still like our posi­tion, even though this one hurts," Brey said. "We got a week to get a little healthy first and then work on some things before Providence." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

3.9 more than Notre Dame. Rebounding will be addressed in practices leading up to the game. 
"We just need to keep work­ing on the things we need to improve on," McGraw said. "Working on our offense and working on rebounding. Just kind of the fundamentals real­ly." 
With the Big East tournament looming, Notre Dame's play needs to continue at this level. After DePaul, the Irish go on the road to face Villanova and Providence. They return home to host Georgetown and Rutgers, and finally travel to DePaul in their final game of the regular season. 

McGraw isn't concerned about her team staying focused or getting caught up in their recent success. 
"We have a long way to go, a lot of games left," she said. "And this is not a team that looks past anyone, so I think 
Contact Bill Brink at 
wbrink@nd.edu 

Open: Tues.-Sat. /Jam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. and Mon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North 
(574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 Belly Dancing on Valentine's Day at 6 and 7:30pm 
~A reservations for Valentine's 


Friday, February 9, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROISSANTWORLD 
NI:>S FINN'·KIA\... OF"FI<.E. STAR"V:. A/4 Atx>PT A. DUC. \<... P~AAM Wffi.\ 
OoNP.""ll:.~ r-JAI-\ES oi-l 
BLACK DoG 
AMEN, I SAY To Yoli: 

ACROSS 
3. 
Your mom is 

4. 
Club Fever. abbv. 


7. This cartoon should be on the _page 
10. _....... Selleck 1s a very good looking man. 12 ''My __ Sweet Sixteen" IS a great TV show. 14 Nickname for Richard 1 7 "I bless the rams down in 
18. Girls at .. look like gremlins. 
20. Jealous women who fiy into space, come back and try to kill people are called ___. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Part of some joints

1 "Have some" 35 Cadbury
6 Slate, e.g., 
Schweppesinformally 

brand 10 One to grow on? 37 They couldn't 
14 Whom a leader be further apart
follows 39 Like the sea
15 Recently departed 40 Rancher's charge
16 Unfrequented 42 Bugged, with
17 Expected 
"on" 18 Weightlifter? 44 Spigot site,
19 Not just surmise 
maybe 20 Insult from a 
45 Move easily

fashionista 47 16th-century
23 KN03 
Spanish mystic 24 Prayer wish 
49 Conference 

25 Lair planners' needs
28 Runner in "The Sun Also Rises" 
52 Pioneer in the 29 "Stuart Little" math of sudoku inits. 
53 Bartender's 30 Less refined query 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
NoW <::rO SAO:. \O 'fCM~ FAM\L'\! f'L-'J, F\..'\ J>..WA."f!  ADAM FAIRHOLM GuEsS I s~ouu>ve.  
MICHAEL MIKUSKA  

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
HE'Y GUYS SottY r'M LA-TE. Yov KNoW, IT~ THE. HoL1l>Al" WEEK­EN!> ANI> THE/tE. WA$ Tl-iiS C.AA..T 
C. rUSH IN TH.E MIPI> LE. o~ TH.E IZ<>~ ANI> TR.AFFJc.' S JvS1' At-LL. (!...8C.JCEJ> \JP 
,4,oJ'(W.4"Y; WHA-T'S 
21. Clausen looks like a troll doll 
DOWN 
1 Do you care about campus 
elections? 
2. 
Sausage.... 

3. 
''New Kids on the 8 lock had a bunch of 5 2005 film; "Memoirs of a 


6. This cartoon should be printed 1n 
8. 
A cross between a tiger and a lion 

9. 
"How'd you get all that in them __?" 


57 Makeshift pencil holders 
58 1814 Byron poem 59 Gas bill factor 60 "Lean 
61 Not name 62 Pushes 
63 ''The Phil Harris-Alice Show" of 1940's-50's radio 
64 Hip 
65 Namesakes of Perry's creator 
DOWN 1 Bit of hardware 2 Hebrew for 
"beginning" 
3 Retort to an improbable threat 


4 Drawn 
5 Newsmaker in space, 1962 
6 Bygone Cadillacs 
7 Send off 
a First string 9 Is in on the joke 
10 Romper room 
11 Starry-eyed sentiment 
12 10-year-old Oscar winner of 1973 
13 Land overseas 
21 Clinch 
22 Bring (out) 
LIAMMORAN 
11. The Observer should pay 16. Eating disorders are not ___ me more 19. Oedipus was upset with himself because 
13. That's what said. he did something bad to his own 14 Your_ talks with a lisp 
15. Sexually transmitted disease; campus labor group 
HI---I'---~ 
WILLSHORTZ 

25 Some lobsters 26 "Ri-i-ight" 27 Pound sounds 31 Emphasize, in a 
way 33 Partners' word 34 Tot watcher 36 "It's dark in 
here!" 
38 Frame job 41 Farm young 
43 Nitpick? 46 Knock down 48 Hunt's sitcom 
co-star 49 Wowed by, after "in" 
50 Home of the Ashanti 
51 Copycat's comment 
54 "Redemption" novelist, 1995 
55 Eye 
56 Sad ending? 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

t'H.AT SC!=tAME\J..EO WORD CiltME 
b¥ ~t{' ft.Fdd .wd Mi<~ A>f!bk:l''>
~JJK 


Un~r<:t!llbte WI~ !.:111t Ju!lltf~. onll' letklr Jo mu:h ~uaro. 'P nxm 1Gt1r r,nl.lnilifJl wor>;:lll 

=*'~&-t ·tttruf·~ r..,!}wj:}a $:~~~~.hie.. 
-\~ :;:;4~:!::~ s;~;>':..O>·'«-';:j 

i'b::ra; 11rnlll1gll' lho cirdl!d llllhml !o ·bmJ the ~urprll!C .3n:M>w. ll1l
I [I·. rJ 

~tiOORM~;¢ by It~ llt'4Ml: l:l!r!r..(ln. 
Answ.r; rI IIIIIII IJ 
]~f~. t:IIT"J.)If{iW) 

Yl'!i!T~Nltty's I J'i.!m~s: T~RD''1' Pf!IOFI NI~BEFi MELOU'r' .-'n&.'.•tn: What trw taa'>!'s finailr liid whenlhey t•>'ih rre.."»do::;-d lo pro~;~ nants ~ 'lRONED' ff OIJT 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Phoenix Farrell, 29: Seth Green. 32: Gary Coleman, 38; Ted Koppel, 66 
Happy Birthday: A disciplined approach will help you get over any sethacks that may occur this year. You mustn't take on too much or he too hard on yourself. Following your dream should be what drives you. Anything is possihle if you put your mind to it. The choices you make will determine how far you'll go this year. Your numbers arc 15, 19. 22, 25, 36, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): It's never too late to make a change. Look around you and if you aren't happy with the way things arc. do something ahout it. Talking to people with similar interests will open your mind to a new way ofdoing things**** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Your emotional well heing will he in question .if you have trouble keeping your point of view to yourself. Ridicule and criticism will he far too easy to dish out and far too difficult to swallow if you arc on the receiving end. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Use your vast vocabulary and your way ofexpressing yourself to talk circles ·around anyone trying to compete with you. Work on something that ignites on your creative imagination. Someone will misinterpret you on purpose.*** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You have to follow your instincts and read between the lines especially when it concerns money matters. A chance to do something nice for the one you spend the most time with will be well worth it in returns. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't limit yourself especially when it comes to partnerships. If someone is oiTering you something, get it in writing and make sure that everything is to your specifications hcfore you sign. A chance to make some money is apparent.**** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): No matter what stage you arc in life there is always the potential for change. Don't take anything for granted. Trust in yourself and your abilities. You have the drive and some very brilliant ideas. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may have some wonderful suggestions hut someone may try to take credit for what you do. Stay on top of things. Discuss your plans with enough people that you are recognized as the brains behind what unfolds. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will be torn between choices today. Don't he a martyr; it's your turn to step into the limelight and follow your own pursuits to completion. You are overdue for a change. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Stop changing your mind so much. You will confuse everyone, including yourself if you don't make a decision and stick to it. A pleasure trip should be in the works. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Everything will revolve around your ahility to complete what you start. Enlist the help of someone you trust. A choice to go out before you've completed your responsibilities will upset some of the people who are counting on you. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): It's time to do something that will give you a pick­me-up. Consider fitness or a self-improvement procedure that will raise your self­esteem and confidence. Giving yourself a boost will contribute to how well you do 
this year. ***** . 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will have trouble listening to good advice today. 
Your emotional well-being will be tested if you are stuhhorn. This is not the day 
to be living in a dream world--every decision you make will have an impact on 
your future. ** 

Birthday Baby: You will not step down or back from anything or anyone. You are a dreamer who will stop at nothing to turn new concepts and ideas into a reality. 
You want to know what makes things tick. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

~--------------------~----­
THE 0HSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, February 9, 2007 
page 24 
HOCKEY 

Top-ranked icers take on Nebraska-Omaha 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame coach Jeff Jackson stood near center ice at practice Thursday and blast­ed his players for poorly exe­cuting a defensive system. 
"You can't be strong in the neutral zone against this team," he yelled. "You have to be great in the neutral zone." 
Jackson was referring to the Nebraska-Omaha Mavericks, who play the No. 1 Irish in a two-game set starting tonight at the Joyce Center. And the sec­ond-year coach had every rea­son to be on edge the day before the CCHA series began -the Mavericks bring one of the nation's most potent offens­es to face off against the best defense college hockey has to offer. 

Nebraska-Omaha (13-12-7, 10-9-3 CCHA) has become the fifth-best offense in the country 
(3.81 goals per game) behind the duo of senior forwards Scott Parse and Alex Nikiforuk, and an entire offensive unit that has 
lifted the Mavericks to fifth place in the CCHA, more than 
compensating for  a lackluster  
defense.  
"You're  going  to  have  to  

defend well-I don't care who you are -against Nebraska, they're an offensive team," Jackson said. "You can key on Parse, then you have Nikiforuk beating you -they have sever-
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Last-second demons 
Irish can't score as time expires, fall at DePaul 
By CHRIS HINE Spons Writer 
CHICAGO -With Notre Dame trailing 6 7-66, Irish for­ward Rob Kurz grabbed the rebound off forward Luke Zeller's miss with less than three seconds left. 
Enter Blue Demons forward Wilson Chandler. 
Chandler blocked Kurz's shot and time expired Thursday, giving DePaul a key confer­ence victory and dropping the Irish to 1-5 on the road against the Big East and 6-5 overall in league play. 
The Demons sophomore big man. who finished with a game-high 25 points and 14 rebounds, made contact with 
see LOSS/ page 22 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Tean1 looks for third straight Big East win 
Irish hope to capitalize on DePaul's road woes 

"I think we'll Ifeel] real con­fident playing at home," McGraw said. "I think particu­larly for the freshmen it's just easier for them to play at home. And I think they enjoy the crowd. The erowd is really helping us win games right now." 
The Blue Demons defeated South Florida 72-65 Tuesday. Forward Caprice Smith led the team with 17 points and 15 rebounds, and was one of five players in double ligures dur­ing the game. 
see DEPAUL/page 22 

By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
After an impressive second­half comeback over Louisville, Notre Dame faces DePaul with a ehanco lo capture its third victory Sunday at 5:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
DePaul (15-9, 5-6 Big East) has lost its last threo games on the road, falling to Con nectieut, St. John's and Louisville. Irish coach MuiTnt McGraw appreeiates thn home eourt advantage her team will have Sunday. 

al very good players and Parse is a great player, there's no question. If you focus on one guy, someone else will burn you." 
The Irish (23-5-2, 17-3-2 CCHA) defended well against Michigan -college hockey's top offense with 4.40 goals per 
see DEFEND/page 21 
FENCING 
NDheads to n1atch at Duke 
Weather strands team at O'Hare just hours before the competition 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 

Notre Dame's trip to Durham, 
N.C. for the Duke Duals got off to a bumpy start. 
Sitting in O'Hare International Airport waiting 
for his team's flight, all Irish coach J a n u s z Bednarski wanted, quite literally, was for his squad to get off the ground. 


By 9 p.m. Bednarski Thursday, Notre Dame's flight had been delayed four hours due to tire problems on the plane sched­uled for the 750-mile flight. And the Irish were just hoping to get to North Carolina in time for the competition, which begins at 9 this morning. 
"I don't want to be sitting here," Bednarski said by tele­phone. "I would rather have us be fencing.... We are sitting and waiting for information. I just hope we will make it today." 
When the Irish finally arrive at the two-day Duals, they will have a new set of problems. 
The field at Duke includes Air Force, Duke, Johns llopkins and North Carolina. The Falcons are ninth in the current USFCA poll on the men's side while the Blue Devils received votes but are outside the top 10 in both the 
see DUKE/page 22 

ND WOMEN~S TENNIS
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
SMC BASKETBALL 

ND TRACK 
NHL

MEN'S TENNIS 
..... 
Penguins 5 

No. 9 Notre Dame 
(,) No. 5 Notre Dame 
Belles at
Louisville at Notre 

Irish to comfeete
• 
Flyers 4 

at Wisconsin 
in Windsor earn
z at No.6 
Kalamazoo
Dame 
Challenge
Dartmouth 
Today, 2 p.m.
5 
The Flyers lose by one

Wisconsin looks to 
Track competitors
Saint Mary's hopes to 

end Notre Dame's five-
have one last chance to 
in a shootout to set a
bounce back from its
= 
cz: The Irish look to 
The Irish will face the 

game winning streak 
qualify for the Big East 
franchise record for con-
disappointing loss to
avenge last season's loss 
season's first Big East 
secutive home losses. 
!; to the Big Green. 
Calvin earlier this week. 

Sunday. 
Championships at this
foe at the Eck Tennis 

weekend's meet. 
Pavilion. 
page 14
page 19 

page 18
page 20
page 21 
page 20 





