
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 24 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER28, 2007 
Honor code violations increase 
Notre Dame Code of Honor Committee attempts to make students, faculty aware of rules 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Bloggers type on travel, ND 
Privacy worries still a concern, writers say 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
Slogging has become a popular means of mass com­munication, and some Notre Dame students are joining the millions of Internet users who maintain personal Web sites. 
Seniors Rob Arseniadis and Chris Wilson write a blog about Notre Dame football and basketball. They created their blog -www.rakesof­mallow.com -in July 2006. 
Arseniadis said the concept of "blogging" didn't appeal to him until he realized he could make it humorous while maintaining enough hard content to keep readers interested. 
"Really, our main goal was to get opposing fans mad at us-which we have," he said. "Honestly, we just want­ed to design a site where viewers can get a student perspective on our sports teams, and we do basic things to keep them coming like adding photos or YouTube videos." 
Sophomore Aldrich Anderson also has his own blog. Anderson travels fre­quently to the Philippines to visit his relatives. For him, blogging serves as a way to document his journeys. 
"Especially for those who are obsessed with memory like me, maintaining a blog while abroad eases the fear 
see BLOGS/page 4 
By JENN METZ Assistant News Editor 
A total of 89 violations of Notre Dame's honor code were reported and resolved during the 2006-2007 academic year, said Dennis Jacobs, the associ­ate provost and faculty co­chair of the Notre Dame Code of Honor Committee. 
Notre Dame students and faculty are expected to adhere to the simple code -"as a member of the Notre Dame community, I will not partici­pate in or tolerate academic dishonesty" -that lays the foundation for the University's high standards of academic integrity. 
The number, which includes all cases resolved by June 7, is an aggregate approximation of the violations committed in the last academic year. Some additional cases may have occurred in the spring semes­ter that were not fully resolved at the time of the year's report -"but that's a small number," Jacobs said. 
Two years ago, the number of violations resolved was 58. .Jacobs gave two possible explanations for the increase in violations. 
First. it could be because the "faculty understands the process better than they did," he said. The process for reporting and resolving viola­tions changed in 2005; before then, all cases went to a hear­ing. 
"There has been an increase in the number of cases since we instituted the new report," Jacobs said. "Faculty are more likely to pursue a case if they feel they have a mechanism that's efficient and that leads to an appropriate resolution." 
The other possibility, he said, is that there is more cheating going on now than in the past. 
"It could be a combination. It could be less cheating and more compliance. We just don't know," he said. 
Jacobs said students accused of academic dishon­esty sometimes claim igno­rance, in cases of plagiarism and unauthorized collabora­tion on homework. 
Jacobs said he is working with faculty to ensure guide­lines for a specific class are laid out clearly for the stu­dents so the number of times ignorance is used as a defense will decrease. He encourages faculty to put their expecta­tions in writing, either in the syllabus or on a hand-out sheet, so the students fully understand how the honor code applies to their class. 
Upon entering the University, all students receive a booklet in their orientation materials informing them of the honor code. They must 
see CODE/page 4 
University looks to boost recycling 
Greater student, faculty involvement needed to increase waste reuse percentage 
By MAUREEN MULLEN 
News Writer 
Student environmental activists and University administrators say they want to improve and expand recycling at Notre Dame by implementing new initia­tives and organizing Pduea­tional campaigns this year. 
Many departments and individuals at the University expend great eiTort to recy­cle. said Amy Amoni, direc­tor of Project Management for University Business OpPrations. 
But, she said. "there are also so many opportunities for improvement." 
Notre Dame currently recycles 61 percent of its solid waste. This summer, the University switched to a single-stream recycling sys­tem. This switch represents a major step forward, said junior Lourdes Long, a stu­dent environmentalist and member of the Energy Center Student Advisory Board. 
Until recently, Long said, campus recyclables had been sorted and disposed of separately, according to the particular material. A sin­gle-stream system allows for the mingling of recyclable paper and mixed containers 
see RECYCLING/page 6 
Recap of the Notre Da111e Recycling Program by Rscal Year from 1990-91 through 2005-o& 
Material Total Since 90/fjj~-~J~.tl Aluminum Cant 488,703 Newspaper 3,123,613 
J
Glut f,743,8<f3 Plude 461,113 J Corrugated t1.097,953 Wood 3,771,252 
Mixed Paper 5,458,147 White Paper 2,148,783 
1 
5,573,645 
Compott 11,760,000 Magulnet 782,456 Ash Oltpotal 69,495,962 
Mltcollanoout 
Mixed Metalt 4.0!5.00~ 

Grand Total f07,883,2SO 



Doxology vital, Haughey says 

Theological Center at Georgetown, speaks Thursday. 
Holy Cross founder praised God through Eucharist, life 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 

Congregation of Holy Cross founder Father Basil Moreau praised God by living his life in unity with the Holy Spirit, said John Haughey, a senior fellow with the Woodstock Theological Center at Georgetown University. 
"The primary act of his life was the life of the Eucharist," Haughey said Thursday at Saint Mary's. 
Haughey's lecture -"Saint Mary's College and Doxology: Why? How? Where? When?" -was the first lec­ture of the Saint Mary's Endowed Fall 
see MOREAU/page 4 

Irish fans split on traveling for game 
Some students plan trip despite 0-4 record 
By KATIE PERALTA 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's struggling start in football has dissuaded some Notre Dame fans, like junior Ron Kerelegon, from making the trip to West Lafayette, Ind., Saturday to see the Irish take on the Purdue Boilermakers. 
Kerelegon said he will watch the game on television from campus and get some homework done. The team's performance this year has made it hard for Kerelegon to be enthusiastic for the upcoming games. 
"I am just hoping at least to win the last half of our games," Kerelegon said. 
Not all students are despairing after Notre Dame's rough start. Sophomore Miguel Berrios plans to drive to Purdue with two of his friends. 
Notre Dame's performance in the last four gam-es did not impact his decision to make the three­hour drive, Berrios said. 
"I would have gone anyways," he said. ''I'm a hardcore fan." 
see GAME/page 6 

r---------------------------------------------------------------­
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, September 28, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

We delivery' 
w-oes 

Thorn's something wrong with 
this semester. 

Look at thn bizarre, awful things 
that have happened: 

+Thnro was a shooting outside 
Club 23. 

+There was an Internet seam 
that preyed on 
Notre Dame 
Federal Credit 
Union cus­
tomers. 
+ T h e women's soccer and volleyball teams have los­ing records. 
+The football 
team is 0-4. 
What could be 
causing all of 
this? 
What evil 
1: u rs e has descended on this campus? 

Like most of you, I was extrmnoly 
confusnd by all of this. I couldn't 
for the life of me figurn out what 
was going on at Notre Damn. 

And tlwn. on the way back from Ann Arbor last week, just when I thought lifo couldn't get any worse, I saw the problem, the root of the tragediPs, frustrations and strug­gles. 
We worn driving down SH-2:~. coming up on Ironwood Hoad. And I saw that lwac.on of lif'l~. liberty and swent and sour chicken -c;oldnn Dragon Chinese Hnstaurant. 
In my depressed. post-loss state, I looked at tlw nstablishment as one of tlw first signs that I was homo, safe in South Bend, far away from tho evil of Ann Arbor. 
And then I saw something that struck nw with horror. 
In place of tlw beautiful. reassur­ing, neon sign announcing to the world that "We Delivery," Golden Dragon had an awful monstrosity hanging from its window. 
Tlw 1ww sign, in garish pink and grenn, rnads: "Wn Deliver." That lovnly 'y' that I had learned to count on for three whole years under tlw Dome was gone. 
I don't know when Cold1m Dragon changed its sign, but I do know this: Bad things have bonn happen­ing on this campus, and it isn't a coincidnnce. Ever since "W1~ Delivnry" has been gone, life at Notr11 Dame hasn't lwen the same. 
Other college towns take good earn of tlwir clweky, silly advertis­ing slogans. 
Krazy Jim's Blimpin Burger nnar tho Univorsity of Michigan still insists that its sandwiches are "Ciwapnr than Food." In Nowark. Dol. UnivPrsity of Delaware stu­dnnts makn sure to frequent the pizza place on Main Stroot even wlwn thP sign says "Sorry, We're Open." 
So, Golden Dragon. I implore you -bring back "We Delivery." Give us bac:k safe streets, secure bank accounts. and winning football. (;ivo us back our school. 
It's our darknst hour. We need your help. 
The l'iews expressed in the Inside Column are thmw ofthe author and not necessarily tlw.•w ofTiw Obseruer. 
Contact Chris Khorey at cklwrey(alnd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please conracr us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WOULD YOU EVER GO SKYDIVING? WHY OR WHY Not? 







Joanie Fisher  Jordan Brooks  Eddie Velazquez  Mary Claire Sullivan  Brendan Ryan  
freshman  senior  sophomore  senior  senior  
Walsh  Off campus  O'neil  Walsh  Keough  
''I'll never do  "Yes, but only if  "Yes, I will.  "No, because  ''I'd love to go  
skydiving  I'm strapped  Then I can taste  I'm grounded."  skydiving,  
because I'm  with Zach."  the rainbow ...  because it is out  
deathly afraid  oh, wait."  of this world. "  
ofheights. "  


VANESSA GEMPISfThe Observer Quarterback Evan Sharpley tries to find a receiver in practice on Sept. 20. The football team will face Purdue Saturday in West Lafayette, Ind. 
OFFBEAT IN BRIEF 

Francois Truf'faut's French language 111m "Jules and Jim" will be shown today at 7 and 10 p.m. at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $:{ for students. 
The men's tennis team will compete in the Tom Fallon Invitational Friday, Saturday and Sunday at thn Eek Tennis Pavilion/Courtney Tennis Center. Matches will takn place at various times throughout the weekend. 
Kwame Anthony Appiah and Martha Nussbaum provide keynote spn<~ches at tho "Cosmopolitanism: Gender, Haee, Class and the Qunset for Global Justke" conference today at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. in McKenna llall. 
Chinese Ink Paintings by Gao Xingjian will be on display this weekend at the Snite Museum of Art as part of the "Between Homeland and Heartland" celebration spotlighting Xingjian and Julia Alvarez. 
Thirteen rare 1950s auto­Two-headed turtle goes display, he said. charged a man with 
mobiles designed by Virgil on display in Pa. The 2-month-old turtle, assault on a government 
Exner will be on display dur­NOHHISTOWN, Pa. -A known as a red-eared official after an officer 
ing a book signing of his biog­two-headed turtle cap­slider, fits on a silver dol­said the man eoughed into 
raphy, Virgil Exner: Visioneer, tured by a turtle collector lar. It has two heads his face during a traiTic 
by Peter Grist, Saturday from is a rare oxampln of a sticking out from opposite stop. 
9 a.m. to 4 p.m. conjoined-twin birth, its ends 1if its shell, along OITicer Chris Gill said in owner said. with a pair of front feet his report that Kent 
As part of the "Worldvinw" The turtle would have on nach side. But there is KauiTman looked into his 
ntm series, the DeBartolo likely died in the wild just ono set of back feet nyes bnfore "hacking" in 
Performing Arts Center will because it swims awk­and one tail. his face thren times, 
show "From a Silk Coceoon," wardly and would be an The turtlo is seemingly according to Morrisvilln 
a Japanese American renunc:i­easy target for predators, healthy, and the species spokeswoman Staeie 
ation story, Saturday at 7 and according to .Jay .Jacoby, can live 15 to 20 years, Galloway. Kauffman said 
10 p.m. Tickets are $:3 for stu­manager of Big At's .Jacoby said. The turtle he did cough from tho 
dnnts. Aquarium Supercenter in has not yet been named. window of his minivan East Norriton. but did so toward Gill's 
To submit information to be 

included in this section of The
The store bought the N.C. man charged with waist. 
tiny turtle from the collec­'coughing' assault 
Observer. e-mail detailed tor for an undisclosed MORHISVILLE, N.C. -Information compiled from 
information about an event to price and will keep it on Morrisville police have the Associated Press. 
obsnews@nd. edu 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 
a: 
LLI 
:I: 
!;;: 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
<t 


(.) 0


_. HIGH 75 HIGH HIGH HIGH 78 HIGH HIGH 77 LOW 48 LOW LOW LOW 50 LOW LOW 57 




Atlanta 80 1 54 Boston 76 I 66 Chicago 70 I 50 Denver 84 I 50 Houston 90 I 73 Los Angeles 75 I 60 Minneapolis 72 I 46 New York 75 I 67 Philadelphia 79 I 66 Phoenix 97 I 74 Seattle 58 I 49 St. Louis 81 I 54 Tampa 90 I 74 Washington 82 I 66 
Friday, September 28, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Immigration film presented 
Award-winner shows work; only audience is Observer reporter, photog 
By LINDSAY SENA 
News Wrircr 
Award-winning filmmaker Stophanie Blaek presm1ted her first film on Jamaican immigra­tion. "11-2 worker." a documen­tary about the migration of Jamaican men to south~Hn florida sugar cane plantations, at the llcsburgh Center Thursday. 
Tlw only two people to attend were an Observer reporter and an Observer photographer. 
Thn film. whieh won the 1990 prize for Best Documentary and Best Cinematography at the Sundance Film Festival, fol­lows the men as they live in poor housing conditions and work at jobs that call for inten­sive labor. 
The film includes interviews with U.S. senators and farmers, and it includes a scene from an American Workers Union meet­ing, in which a speaker argues that Jamaicans are stealing work from American workers. 
Black estimated that. at the time it was filmnd, the Jamaican men were supposed to be making $5.32 per hour, or doso to $40 per day. 
"But in reality," Black said, "they wflre only paid $20 a day, which was subject to further deductions by Jamakan law." 
One problem Black illustrat­ed is that the United States labor laws are not being enforced on the plantations for H-2 guest workers. 

"Here are 10,000 workers who aren't voting," she said. "Legislators always want to reflect the interests of sugar corporations, not employees, so the laws were there but enforcement wasn't." 
Now, sugar cane can be har­vested mechanically, but the guest worker program is still being examined and could be expanded. 
Black also spoke about her 2002 film, "Life and Debt," a documentary about the migra­tion of Jamaican workers from their home country to the United States. The film follows the lives of Jamaican workers and explores how many choose to leave their homes and migrate to North America to pursue work. 
Black appeared as part of the Kellogg Institute's Lecture and Seminar Series. 
She got her start in the docu­mentary industry as a student at New York University's film school. Her most recent film is called "Africa Unite." It docu­ments the celebration of Bob Marley's 60th birthday in Ethiopia. 
Contact Lindsay Sena at lsena@nd.edu 

Continenta( Cuisine lVitfi an Ita(ian 1\vist Check out the Hottest New Restaurant in Town 
Lunch Hours: Monday-Friday 11:00 a.m.-2:30p.m. Dinner Hours: Sunday-Thursday 5:00-10:00 p.m. and Friday & Saturday 5:00-I J:00 p.m. Lounge Hours Daily: 4pm-always open late 
ND psychology scholar studies spatial cognition 
Special to The Observer 
At one time or another, we've all been lost and sought out a relative, friend or gas station attendant for direc­tions. But while "Take Cleveland west and turn on Lilac, just before the bank" seems simple enough, there's a lot that goes into that advice. 
Laura Carlson, associate professor of psychology at Notre Dame, says spatial cog­nition -the way we represent and remember objects and their locations -is intricately tied to other cognitive process­es, like attention, memory and language. 
"If you're walking on a path and there's a landmark right in front of you, it's pretty easy to say 'Proceed until you get to the fountain.' But if there's a landmark that would be sort of diagonally to you instead, that's a more difficult relation to describe ... So I may forego that landmark altogeth­er because the other one is much easier to express." 
One way Carlson, who is assisted in her lab by both graduate and undergraduate students, studies spatial cogni­tion is by doing experiments in which participants are asked to describe an object's location on a computer screen, in a photo or on a table. 
Say the object is a set of keys, and it's placed on a black table with several black objects as well as a red sta­pler, the idea being that the stapler stands out much like a notable landmark would. In what Carlson describes as a baseline configuration, the keys are set close to this "landmark," typically leading people to describe their loca" tion relative to it, as in "The keys are in front of the sta­pler." 
But what happens when the keys are moved closer to one of the black objects? 
"It turns out that partici­pants pick [the black object] overwhelmingly," Carlson says. Further, when the keys are diagonal to both the sta­pler and another object. the 
stapler is not selected signifi­cantly more often. This pat­tern of data suggests that ref­erence objects are chosen more for their proximity to items of interest than their defining physical characteris­tics. 
Carlson also explores this process through more natural interactions, having one of her students call out "Can you tell me where my keys are?" and seeing how the participant, who thinks the experiment hasn't started, responds. The results have been consistent with the more-controlled experimental tasks, even when the experimenter uses the sta­pler before leaving the room, thereby drawing the partici­pant's attention to it. 
"All the claims in the litera­ture are that you pick a land­mark that is really easy to find. or it's presumed that the person you're speaking to knows where it is and can lind it," Carlson says, making her results "somewhat surprising." 
The next step is to see if these findings translate to a larger environment. In a relat­ed experiment, participants fill out packets in which they give directions from one campus spot to another. They're also asked to rate the frequency with which they use certain buildings and how easy sever­al landmarks, such as Notre Dame Stadium, are to imagine visually. Carlson plans to look at how often buildings partici­pants pay the most attention to (i.e., those they visit most) and the ones that are particu­larly notable (the easiest to imagine) show up in their directions. 
"If you want to generalize from [the lab] data," Carlson says, "the prediction would be that participants will figure out a path first based on spa­tial relations that are easy to express, then they will pick out landmarks that fall along the path." 
Unfortunately, understand­ing why people pick specific routes still can't guarantee they'll remember if a road is closed for construction. 
Nevv book on fenUnisrn published by professor 
Special to The Observer 
"Does Feminism Discriminate Against Men? A Debate," by Warren Farrell and James P. Sterba, professor of philosophy at Notre Dame, was published this month by Oxford University Press. 
According to its publisher, the book's co-authors offer "a sharp, lively, and provocative debate on the impact of femi­nism on men. Warren Farrell -an international best-selling author and leader in both the early women's and current men's movements -praises feminism for opening options for women but criticizes it for demonizing men, distorting data, and undervaluing the family. In response, James P. Sterba-an acclaimed philoso­pher and ardent advocate of feminism -maintains that the feminist movement gives a long-neglected voice to women in a male-dominated world and that men are not an oppressed gender in today's America." 
Praising the book in an early review author and philosopher Tom Digby wrote that "the relationship between men and feminism has never been addressed in such an exciting and accessible way, or with such extensive and engaging evidence and anecdotes." 
A member of Notre Dame's philosophy faculty since 1973, Sterba also is a fellow of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. lie teaches courses in ethics, social and political philosophy, and con­temporary moral problems, including war and peace issues. He has published numerous other books includ­ing. most recently, "The Triumph of Practice· Over Theory in Ethics." 

Friday, September 28, 2007 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Blogs 
continued from page 1 
of forgntting a spontannous eonvnrsation with a lcH:al, a brnathtaking sennnry, or a eultural insight you have gainnd whiln away from honw -all of whieh involvn 
mail, but if I were to post even impersonal things on an Internet blog, it would botlwr me if people I didn't know were reading what I'm going through." 
While Anderson and Arsnniadis said they are not bothnred by any presumed dangnrs, tlwy both control the type of information 
a story worth "The dangers ofthe they put on sharing with their sites.
non-private nature of
othnrs," lw "I don't 
a blog are precisely
said. attach my full 
And orson the reason why I name to the said hn tPIIs blog, and I
prefer sending out a 
studnnts who don't want 
mass e-mail to 
travnl abroad employnr~ t~! to explore tlw posting a blog." see 1t, idoa of blog­Arseniadis ging. l'nopiP said. "I still
Apurva Aslekar
miss out on feel like it is
junior
inspirations kind of a 
wlwn tlu•y don't dot:u­mnnl lhnir thoughts and ox JH' riP n c:ps. 
Sonw studnnts said it will probably takP a fnw morn yPars lwforP tlwy fnnl com­fortahln posting information on a public: domain. 
.Junior Apurva Aslnkar, who is studying abroad in ToiPdo, Spain. said he keeps a daily journal of what hn dons in Europe but prnfnrs a safnr moans of communi­cating with friends and fam­ily. 
"The dangers of the non­privatn nature of a blog are preeisnly the reason why I prnfer sending out a mass n-mail to posting a blog," Aslnkar said. "I don't ineludn any details that I cons id n r pn rs<lll al within thn context of my mass e-
Moreau 
continued from page 1 
J.octure Series. Doxology is a hymn or form of words containing an acknowledge­mont of praiso to God. 
llaughny spoke to about :~o students, faculty and Holy Cross sisters in Stapleton Lounge in J.eMans Hall. 
Sister Kathlenn Dolphin, the director of the Center for Spirituality at Saint Mary's, weleomed Haughey and introduced the series' theme -which, she said, echoes Mornau's philoso­phy. Thn Congregation of Holy Cross founded Notre I>ame and Saint Mary's. 
Sinc:e llauglwy spoke only a fnw days aftnr Moroau was bnatil'ied in Franco, he dncidnd to nxplorn doxology as it rnlatos to tlw eurrcmt Saint Mary's studnnt. 
"Doxology and thn Furharist go togethnr," llaughny said. 
A Catholic· institution of highnr lnarning nnnds to havn somP way to conrwct thn work of thn campus with tlw faith that sponsors it. llaughny said, adding that Christianity as a wholn has losl sonwthing when it comes to doxology. 
"We don't go to the act of Hucharist likP wp'rn Mary's without our Martha's," llauglwy said. refnrring to thP Story in tho (;ospol of I.uk1~ in which two sistnrs roeeivn Jnsus into thnir honw and Mary. a l"rinnd of J n sus. sits at J ~~sus. fen t and listens to his storins whiln Martha does all of thn housnhold work and takes car<' of tlwir guest. 
rwrdy thing to 

do, so I don't spend morn than 20 min­utes per day updating our s i t <~ , j u s t t o kcw p i t a s a hobby." Andnrson said he keeps in 
mind  that  blogs  arn  
dnsignnd for a public audi­ 
enc:n.  

"As with all other forms of spend1, just be cautious of your content." he recom­mended to studnnts consid­ering their own blog. "Don't think those stories of your cultural sensitivities and adaptability will get you that internship after boast­ing on the same post of your late-night arrest at that local pub." 
Contact Rohan.Anand at ranand@nd.edu 
Christians are supposed to approach the Eucharist with their entire selves, and the work of their hands, hearts and minds, Haughey said. 
Catholics cannot disen­franchisn themselves from their identities as students and members of the com­munities of which they are a part, Haughey said. 
"Christ has an agenda, and we are the middle managers in the completion of that agenda and the exe­cution or that agenda," Haughey said. 
Dolphin said she warned her freshman religious studios students that the lecture might be hard to understand. 
"I told them to be pre­pared for a challenging lee­turn, one that might be a little on the abstract side," Dolphin said. 
Upon hearing that, llauglwy tried to make his statnments more concrete by placing thnm in the Saint Mary's culture. 
"II" I'm a membnr of the soei"ology department of Saint Mary's, and I'm going to Eucharist, it semns to bn not only what I am doing there, it is also what my departmm1t is doing there," he said. 
Earh person is a part of somn organization and within that organization we must become priestly medi­ators, or stewards to God, Haughey said. 
"That's not at all abstract, it's concreto .... It's only as abstract as our faith is unclear." Haughey said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Code 
continued from page 1 
take an online quiz. which tests students on eight hypo­thetical situations of academic dishonesty, Jacobs said. 
Senior Desiree Zamora, the student co-chair of the Notre Dame llonor Code Committee, gave a presentation to fresh­men and parents during ori­entation this year. 
"We emphasized a commit­ment to academic integrity," Jacobs said. "Academic integrity is an important value for the University.... Our core quest as a University is the pursuit or truth, and so to misrepresent one's thoughts or ideas or work l'lins in the race of that... 
Assistant Dean of First Year of Studies Kenneth DeBoer said becoming a member or the University community "is about academic integrity, about learn"ing how to do work well as a University stu­dent. ... Wn'rc teaching stu­dents to be good students." 
lie said the position of First Year of Studies is "always to support the student and help them learn as we do in all cases." 
"We turn first-year students into sophomores.... Part of the process is becoming com­fortable with the honor code," DeBoer said. 
First Year of Studies released a statement that said they "cannot speculate on the 
numbers" of first-year stu­dents who commit honor code violations. 
"If in fact the occurrence of honor code violations is high­er among first year and soph­omorn students, we might attribute this to the overall adjustment that students make from high school to the University," it said. 
Becoming an academic citi­zen of Notrn Dame, DeBoer said, is a lnarning procoss. lie said First Year of Studies is "teaching students how to bn good students," and part of that is conveying information about the code. 
"It's not a dishonor code, not 

a  cheating code  - it's thn  
honor code," he said.  
The  Code  of  Honor  

Committee's memb<~rship is a balance of students and fantl­ty, Jacobs said. 
A dialoguo about potnntial honor code violations begins bntween professor and stu­dnnt, he said. If the situation is deemod in violation of tlw honor eodn, two paths are availabln for rnsolution. 
A student has the right to elect to havo a hearing bef'oro an Honesty Committen. Academic departments or col­leges organize these commit­toes and are made up of facul­ty and students, Jacobs said. The majority of the committee members are students. 
The second option is a dis­cussion between professor and student about an appro­priate penalty for the violation that conforms to certain prin­ciples that are listed on the Honor Code Web site. 
"If someone chooses to com­mit an honor code violation in order to gain advantages, the pnnalty should leave them worse ofT than if they hadn't chosen to dwat at all," Jacobs said. 
If an agreement is estab­lished. an honor code viola­tion report is l"illed out and signnd by both partins. 
Upon completion, the report is sent to .Jacobs' orncn, whnre ho revinws tho agrnem en t to ensure it is consistnnt with the honor code and signs it. 
By signing the form, the stu­dent waives his or hnr rights to a hearing but has seven days aftor it is submitted to rnvokn the agreement. he said. In that ease, tho matter will be rnsolvnd in a !waring. 
"We try to establish a proenss for rnsolving honor codn easns that is fair and equitabln," Jacobs said. 
Nnxt week, .Jacobs and Zamora will mont with stu­dent. body vien prnsidnnt Maris Braun to discuss stu­dnnt govnrnmnnt's initiative to reduce tho amount of eheating that takes placn at tlHl University. 
''I'm a big bn I icvc~ r in stu­dents stepping forward on this issue," Jacobs said, "so I hope that Maris and other studnnts can think about ways to have a dialogue around this topic and that in the end we all work together to promote aca­demic integrity." 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

!.\ @@[Rj@~(ill[f@~01o11(
UJ~ When it's the l? prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-yr Job In the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goals. Apply by November 2, 2007. 
Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end of May, 2008) an NO degree? No east-Asia experience? For more infonnation, contact Mrs. Nancy O'Connor(nmee@nd.edu) 


ORLD & NATION 
Friday, September 28, 2007 CoMrn.ED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
British toddler remains missing 
ZINAT, Morocco -The parents of missing British 3-year-old Madeleine McCann had their hopes dashed again Wednesday when a girl resembling their daughter who was pho­tographed in Morocco turned out to be the child of an olive farmer. 
The excitement over the photo, taken by Spanish tourist Clara Torres in northern Morocco and widely published on the Internet, testified to the international frenzy the McCann case has sparked. Many people have hoped for signs that Madeleine is alive more than four months after she disap­peared l'rom a Portuguese resort. 
Interpol said Wednesday that investigators have been studying the blurry detail of the photo. Only vague outlines of the girl's face were visibln in the picture, which showed a group ol' people that includes a woman wearing Moroccan-style clothing and carry­ing a fair-haired girl on her back. It did not suggest any effort by the woman to hide the child's face. 
Two countries named most corrupt 
LONDON -Myanmar and Somalia have been ranked as the most corrupt nations in Transpanmcy International's 2007 index, mleascd Wednesday -adding pressure to the Southeast A'iian country's military regime as it faces the biggest anti-government protests in nnarly two decades. 
Transparcmcy International's 2007 Corruption Perceptions Index scored 180 countries based on the degree to which corruption is perceived among public officials and politicians. 
Myanmar, also known as Burma, and Somalia rnceiw~d the lowest score of 1.4 out of 10. Denmark, Finland and New Zealand were ranked the least corrupt-each scoring 9.4. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Rape charges filed against Utah man 
SALT LAKE CITY -Prosecutors filed a rape charge Wednesday against the ex-hus­band whose marriage was at the center of polygamous-sect leader Warren Jeffs' trial. 
The charge against Allen Glade Steed came a day after Jeffs was convicted of rape by accomplice. 
Steed was 19 and his bride -also his first cousin -was 14 when they were married in 2001. He is accused of having sex with the girl against her will after the arranged mar­riage. 
Steed, now 26, testified at Jeffs' trial that he did not force himself on the girl and said she initiated their first sexual encounter. He said he believed marrying the 14-year-old was right under "God's law." 
Trial of Spector ends in mistrial 
LOS ANGELES -The murder trial of music producer Phil Spector ended in a mis­trial Wednesday because of a deadlocked jury. 
The mistrial came on the 12th day of delib­erations on whether Spector murdered actress Lana Clarkson more than 4 1/2 years ago. The 12-membcr panel had heard about five months of testimony. 
The jury foreman reported the panel was deadlocked 10 to 2 but did not indicate which way it was leaning. The jury reported a 7-5 impasse last week and had resumed deliberations with modified instructions. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana woman possibly abducted 
NEW PALESTINE, Ind. -Police are searching fbr a New Palestine woman who they think was abducted by her estranged husband. 
Allison Thomas was reported missing this morning. She called home shortly after 11 a.m. and spokp, to relatives and police, but had not bP-P.n found as of 5 p.m. 
Police say the :~5-year-old woman's husband, 40-year-old Ron Ti10mas, forced Thomas to get mto his silver-colored Chevy Trailblazer this morning. The couple's three children -all under the age of 4 -were asleep when Thoma<; left the home and were not harmed. Relatives are now earing I(Jr the ehildrnn. 
IRAQ 

Critics: Blackwater was unprepared 
Democrats say company was responsible for Fallujah incident and recent killing of 11 Iraqis 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON Blackwater USA triggered a major battle in the Iraq war in 2004 by sending an unprn­pared team of guards into an insurgent stronghold, a move that led to their horril'ic deaths and a violent response by U.S. fim~es, says a congressional investigation released Thursday. 
The private security com­pany, one of the largest working in Iraq and under scrutiny for how it operates, also is faulted for initially insisting its guards were properly prepared and equipped. It is also accused of impeding the inquiry by the Democratic staff of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. 
The results of the staff inquiry come less than a week before Erik Prince, a furmer Navy SEAL and Blackwater's founder, is scheduled to testify before the committee, which is chaired by Hep. Henry Waxman, D-Calif., a longtime critic of Blackwater. 
The March 2004 incident involving Blackwater was widely viewed as a turning point in the Iraq war after images of the mutilated bod­ies of the four guards were seen around the world. Four days after the Blackwater guards were killed, a major military offensive, known as the Battle of Fallujah, began. 
The combat lasted almost a 
month in Fallujah, which is 
40 miles west of Baghdad. At 
least 36 U.S. military person­
nel were killed along with 
200 insurgents and an esti­
mated 600 civilians, the con­
gressional investigation 
found. 

In a statement, Blackwater spokeswoman Anne Tyrrell called the report a "one-sided version" of a tragic incident. She said the committee has documents that show the Blackwater team was "betrayed" and steered into "a well-planned ambush." 
The report does not 

acknowledge "that the ter­rorists determined what hap­pened that fateful day in 2004," Tyrrell said. "The ter­rorists were intent on killing Americans and desecrating their bodies." 
David Marin, the commit­tee's Hepublican staff direc­tor, criticized the Democratic staff for reaching conclusions before the committee could dig deeper for answers. 
"We certainly don't get there in this plaintiff's roadmap masquerading as an investigative report," Marin said. 
Donna Zovko, whose son, Jerko "Jerry" Zovko, died in the Fallujah incident, said she hopes the staff report will lead to more oversight and more discussions about the use of contractors. 
"Congress can't change anything for my son. He is gone and nothing can bring him back," Zovko said. "But let's see what they can do for the others out there because someone needs to care for these contractors. Blackwater cares about noth­ing but the mighty dollar." 
The families of the four slain contractors filed suit against the company in January 2005, saying Blackwater's cost-cutting measures led to the deaths. That lawsuit is still pending as a federal judge tries to determine whether it should be heard in arbitration or in open court. 
Blackwater has argued in court that it is immune to such a lawsuit because the company operates as an extension of the military and cannot be responsible for deaths in a war zone. 

The results of the Democratic staff's probe cast Blackwater in a more nega­tive light. 
On Sept. 16, 2007, 11 Iraqis were killed in a shoot­out involving Blackwater guards protecting a U.S. diplomatic convoy in Baghdad. 
The State Department, one of Blackwater's largest cus­tomers, has operied an inves­tigation into the incident. Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte told Congress on Wednesday that the Baghdad incident was tragic, but that private secu­rity companies like Blackwater were essential to operations in Iraq. 
Idaho senator will try to· reverse plea 
Associated Press 

MINNEAPOLIS -Sen. Larry Craig's lawyers are in search of a rare legal prize -a do-over. And getting it won't be easy. 
"He's already gotten lots of jus­tice and fairness. A court will view this as taking not just a second bite at the apple, but a fourth and fifth bite," said Mary Jane Morrison, a professor in criminal law at Hamline University. 
On Wednesday. attorneys for the Idaho Republican will join the parade of drunk drivers and teenage leadfoots at what is usual­ly a sleepy suburban courthouse. They hope to convince Judge Charles Porter that Minnesota's justice system made a terrible mis­take in accepting the senator's guilty plea. 
Judges usually don't let defen­dants try another approach after the first one fails. Craig's first approach was an unnoticed guilty plea after his arrest in a men's bathroom sex sting. It stayed unno­ticed for several weeks and then was widely reported last month, sparking calls for his resignation. 
Craig contends that he did not. solicit sex in the bathroom an·d erred only in pleading guilty by mail to disorderly conduct without consulting a lawyer. He has said he would resign by the end of the month but has since linked his political future to whether he can take back the guilty plea. 
Craig won't be attending the hearing, according to Judy Smith, a spokeswoman for Craig attorney Billy Martin. 
Craig has said his foot-tapping, hand gestures and looks into a bathroom stall were misconstrued by the police officer who arrested him. His attorneys say that he pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor because he feared his June 11 arrest would trigger a story by an Idaho newspaper that had been investigating his sexual orienta­tion. Craig has denied that he is gay. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Friday, September 28, 2007 
Recycling 
continued from page 1 
in a single bin. Long said the convenience of single-stream recycling should increase partid­pation on campus. 
"Tlw easier we make recy­cling, the mon~ people will recy­cle," Long said. 
Long and Amoni strnssml the impaet individual participation can have on Notre Dame's recy­cling rate. Student and faculty behavior ean overwhelmingly alfed the University's rncyding statistics, Long said. It is tlw minimal recycling in many dor­mitories and ollices that mquirns serious improvnn11mt. she said. 
"Wo want people to roalize it is easy to be gn~tm -very simple changes can hPlp," Amoni said. 
Long hopes her gtmnration hm; bonn raised to understand the irnportancn of n~cycling. .. ·:This isn't m~ cause.:: she said. 
Its everybody s eausn. 
Long ha<; teamed up with other environmentally concerned stu­dent<; to encourage their pm~rs to rncyde. 
This year, Notre Dame will participatf~ in Heeyelemania, a nationwide recycling competition for univnrsities. Hneyelnmania will llL<;t fi>r threP months during the spring semester and will be a dorm competition. Notre Dame will compote in a per capita con­test. Long said. and each dorm Long said. 

While she em~ourages stronger ellilrl<; to recycle, Long applaud­ed the University's role in helping student<; with the Michigan State game day roeyding effort. Long was a student leader in the ini­tiative that provided recycling bags to tailgaters in the llesburgh Library parking lot and encouraged fans to properly rncyde. 
"All credit has to go to Business Operations and Building Serviens," Long said. 
Long and Amoni also said Notrn Dame Food Services does a great deal to incorporate envi­ronmnntal praeticf~s in dining hall operations. Food Services has made an etlort to purchase fair-trade and local items. In addition, Food Service employees attend energy efficiency training prohrrams, Long said. 
Bulk purchases, the reduction of packaging materials, and left­over fi.)()d donation are all ways Food Services protect<; the envi­ronment, Long said. 
Investigating the value of biodehrradable items and the pos­sibility or eomposting or pulping food are two measures Food Services wants to pursue. 
Patrick O'llara, the manager of Warehouse Services, oversees the piek-up and bailing of all reeydables from Notre Dame, St. Mary's and WNDU. ()')-lara said only one member of his stall' is responsible for the pick-up of campus recy­clables. One 
will be chal­person wa<> also
"Green is not a trend. 
lenged to be tho responsible for
It is here to stay. It is
leader in riley­the pick-up of ding. how we must do recyelables in "I think educa­business." 1990 when tion is really Notre Damn's ~-~;y." she said. recycling pro­
Amy Amoni 
I here are stu­gram began. 
dent environ­Project Management O'Hara said as mental commis­University Business the recycling sioners in every program has
Operations
dorm now." grown, so has
director
StudPnts are not tho only tmvi­ronmental activisl<> on campus, Long said. A host of University administrators, too, am working to inernasn Pnvironmental awareness within the Notre Damn community. 

This summer. Amoni said, tho Univnrsity hin•d a student to do an audit of the prevalence and plaemnent of recycling bins in nvnry building on campus. The student. dn~w up hlunprints of twery lloor of PVPry building and indicated whPrP meyding bins worn placed. Amoni said this data will lwlp tlw Univnrsity assess wlwrn mort~ bins an~ 1wndPd. 
"In a lot of oldnr buildings," Amoni said. "it can bn hard to lind a location that is not in tlw way but still in tlw midst of PVPrything." 
l.ong said Notrn Damn recy­rling pror.Pdurl's aw not well known. 
"ThPrl' is tlw myth that tlw Univnrsity isn't actually rncyding what it collncl<; in rneyding bins." 
the strain on his 
stair. 

''I'm blessed with a great stall'," O'Hara said, "but we m~nd hnlp. It is a lot of work lor one person to sort this, empty trucks and gnt back on campus to do it again." 
With the move to single-stream and with other initiativns under­way that could increa<;n amounl<; of rncyding waste, O'Ilara said additional stalling might become nnenssary. 
Amoni said the Univnrsity ha'i had tlw idea of creating an olli­dal Ollice of Sustainability in the future, which would lead to a continual expansion of fmviron­mnntal efli>rl<; on campus. It is liknly that within a ynar, thn Uniwrsity will hire an employee dedicated solely to developing gn11m efforts at Notrn Damn, Amoni said. 
"Crnnn is not a trend," shn said. "It is hnrn to stay. It is how wn must do business." 
Contact Maureen Mullen at mmullen1@nd.edu 


.Serving Lunch c_,., Dinner 
·li,.,s-Sat 
11-2; 4-9pm 
Clo., .. d Sunda)' &Momlay · 

011r Spccia/Lies Tncludc E.xquisitc 
.\1cut En/ rces c_..,., llt:ulthy H·gt"tariun Dishes 
Appetizers • Salads • Sandwiches Meat Dishes • Vegetarian Selections • Desserts extras: !..emil Smqi & (larlic Paste 
Cml!' Dillt' \Viti! Our h1111il}' A11d lk Our Frin1d! 
115 Di.:..·ie Way North, South Bend 
(574) 277-7239 
~ '"\ 

Ga01e 
continued from page 1 

Berrios does not have tickets, but he plans to purchase them at Purdue or, if he cannot find any tickets, to watch the games with some Purdue friends. As of friends. 
"I would definitely consider going to an away game, even now," Perone said. 
Freshman Kate Clitheroe also ha<> other plans that prevented her from making the drive to Purdue this weekend. 
"I am going to the women's vol­leyball game," she said. "I think 

Wednesday night, Purdue had nearly 300 tickets avail­ "J would definitely consider going to an  it is important to focus on more than just foot­ 
able, ineluding 235 that were returned by Notre Dame,  away game, even now.  ball." Clitheroe said she wants to go  
according  to  to an away game  
Purdue's  official  Michelle Perone  at some point in  
athletics Web site. Sophomore  sophomore  her career.  college  
Michelle  Perone  The  Student  

said she would have liked to travel Union Board will be providing to Purdue this weekend, but she round-trip bus transportation for had already made plans with Notre Dame students. The bus departs at 7 a.m. from Library Circle and will return after the game on Saturday. As of Wednesday, SUB had sold 70 of il<> $10 tickets, and 36 were still for sale. 
The two Indiana rivals will kick ofT at noon. The Irish have beaten the Boilermakers, who arn unde­feated this sea<;on, two times in a row. 
Dnspite a poor starting record, ticket sales have remained high, a<; they have in previous years when the team had winning records. Assistant Athletic Director Josh B(wlo said people are still calling the ticket ollice seeking tickel<; lbr games later in the sea'ion. 
The ticket ollien saw a line at the window through the day for the Michigan State game. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 

Official resigns over You Tube video 
Member of immigration commission advocates for jihad online 
Associated Press 

RICHMOND, Va. -A member of' the state's Commission on Immigration resigned Thursday, a few hours after Gov. Timothy 
M. Kaine was told about online videos showing the appointee condemning Israel and advocat­ing "the jihad way." 
Kaine learned of the videos from a caller to his live monthly radio program and accepted the resignation of Dr. Esam S. Omeish about three hours later. 
"Dr. Omeish is a respected physician and community leader, yet I have been made aware of certain statements he has made which concern me," Kaine said in a news release announcing the resignation. 
Omeish said in an interview that he resigned because he did not want what he called a misin­terpretation of his words to hamper work done by the 20­member commission, appointed to study the effects or immigra­tion and federal immigration policies on Virginia. 
Omeish, who is president of the Muslim American Society and chief or the division of gen­eral surgery at Inova Alexandria Hospital, is shown in a video on YouTube denouncing an invasion of Lebanon by the "Israeli war machine" during an Aug. 12, 2006, rally in Washington. 
lie also accuses Israel of geno­cide and massacres against Palestinians and says on the video that the "Israeli agenda" controls Congress. 
In a separate, undated video, Omeish tells a crowd of Washington-area Muslims, " ... You have learned the way, that you have known that the jihad way is the way to liberate your land." The video was credited to Investigative Project, a Washington-based organization that investigates radical Islamic organizations. 

Omnish said late Thursday that his comments were taken out of context and that his ref(w­ence to "the jihad way" was not a call for violent attacks. 
"In Islam, jihad is a broad word that means constant strug­gle -struggling spiritually, emotionally, intnllectually, physi­cally -in all respects. So my words wen~ in support of peoph~ who are resisting occupation and people who are trying to ... remove oppression from their land," Omnish said. 
The word, he said, took on a sinister tone in the United States after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2007 8:00PM, REYES ORGAN AND CHORAL HALL DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
TICKETS: $10, $8 FACULTY/STAFF, $6 SENIORS, $3 STUDENTS CALL 574-631-2800 OR VISIT HTTP://PERFORMI NGARTS.ND.EDU 
THE SEVENTH IN A SERIES OF NINE CONCERTS DEVOTED TO THE COMPLETE ORGAN WORKS OF DIETERICH BUXTEHUDE (CA. 1637·1707). 
r;:t;IUNIVERS!TY OF 
rt't!l: DE B A R T 0 l 0 
'if}' NOTRE DAME 
;,~~ ,()!i PERFORMING ARTS CENTER Department of Music 


Friday, September 28, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 13,912.94 +34.79
Jones 
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,155  99  1,082  2,906,570,007  
AMEX  
 
NASDAQ  2,709.59  +10.56  
NYSE  l0.056c95  ·+76;~a  
S&P 500  1,5-~ 1.3R  +5.96  

NIKKEI (Tokyo) 16,832.22 0;00 FTSE 100 (London) 6,486.40 +53.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +0.59 +0.90 153.09 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.51 +0.26 51.58 FORD MOTOR CO (F) -2.28 -0.25 8.63 SUN MICROSYS INC (JAVA) -0.53 -0.03 5.59 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.02 -0.047 4.573 13-WEEK BILL -0.69 -0.025 3.600 30-YEAR BOND -1.14 -0.056 4.837 5-YEAR NOTE --0.92 -0.039 4.217 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.58 82.88 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +4.40 739.90 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.38 89.73 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 115.57 EURO 0.7066 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0017 BRITISH POUND 0.4932 
IN BRIEF 
Health program spending increases 
WASIIINGTON -Congress approved legislation Thursday adding 4 million children to a popular health care program, setting up a veto fight that President Bush probably will win but handing Democrats a campaign issue for next year's elec­tions. 
Dozens of Republicans in the Senate lined up with Dmnocral'i in voting 67-29 to increase spending on the State Children's Health Insurance Program, or SCHII', from about $5 billion to $12 billion annually li>r tho next five years. 
Tho vote was enough to override a promised Bush veto. But supporters in the House, which passed the bill Tuesday, are about two dozen votes shy of an override. Both chambers would have to muster two­thirds majorities to win a veto showdown. 
President's climate meeting opens 
WASIIINGTON -President Bush's climate meeting opened Thursday with its main prob­lem on full display: The biggest polluters ­industrialized and developing nations alike ­say their economies are more important than global warming. 
Not for the richest nations, retort Europeans, the United Nations and some developing nations. 
Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, anticipat­ing such divisions, urged all sides to work togetlwr to "accelerate the prospncts" of a U.N.­Ind solution later this year at talks in Bali, Indonesia. 
"Pitting the developed and the developing countries against each other will not lead to Pconomic development and environmnntal sus­tainahility," he said in remarks prepared for Thursday night. "We must tear down artificial barriers that impnde the spread of today's dean technologins. Thern is no moral or economic n~ason for tariffs or non-tariff barriers on envi­ronnHmtal goods or services." 
Secretary of State Condoleezza Hiee called for a solution "that does not starve nconomies of tlw nnergy they need to grow and that does not widnn the already significant income gap bPtween developed and developing nations." 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 

page 7 

Housing market hurts economy 
Consumer confidence in the U.S. plummets as existing home prices see their steepest drop 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Crumbling consumer confidence and slumping home sales could prove to be a bad combina­tion for retailers, and for the broader economy going into the holiday shopping season, if the labor market contracts further and chokes off spending, eco­nomic data showed Tuesday. 
But markets took some heart from the warning signs, hoping that they would goad the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates more. 
Worries about jobs and the economy flared in September, driving a key barometer of consumer sentiment to its lowest level in nearly two years, a pri­vate research group said. 
The bad news was com­pounded by a report from the National Association of Realtors that sales of exist­ing homes declined for a sixth straight month in August, pushing activity to the lowest point in five years. The Realtors showed a rise in median home prices, but a separate report done by S&P/Case­Shiller said home prices fell 
3.9 percent in July in its 20­city index. Economists said that decline was probably a better reflection of where the market stands now. 

The New York-based Conference Board said its Consumer Confidence Index fell to 99.8, an almost 6­point drop from the revised 
105.6 in August. The read­ing was below the 104.5 that analysts had expected. 
It marked its lowest level since a 98.3 reading in November 2005, when gas and oil prices soared after hurricanes Katrina and Rita devastated the Gulf Coast. 
"Weaker business condi­tions combined with a less favorable job market con­tinue to cast a cloud over consumers and heighten their sense of uncertainty and concern," said Lynn Franco, director of The Conference Board Consumer Hesearch Center, in a statement. "Looking ahead, little economic improvement is expected, and with the holiday season around the corner, this is not welcome news." 
The Present Situation Index, which measures how shoppers feel now about the economy, declined to 
121.7 from 130.1 in August. The Expectations Index, which measures shoppers' outlook over the next six months, declined to 85.2 from 89.2. 
Economists closely moni­tor confidence since con­sumer spending accounts for two-thirds of U.S. eco­nomic activity. 
The National Association of Realtors reported Tuesday that sales of exist­ing single-family homes dropped 4.3 percent in August, compared to July. Sales at a seasonally adjusted annual rate dropped to 5.5 million units, the slowest pace since August 2002. 

The S&P/Case-Shiller report, also released Tuesday, showed that the decline in U.S. home prices accelerated nationwide in July, posting the steepest drop in 16 years. The ind.ex of 10 U.S. cities fell 4.5 per­cent in July from a year ago. That was the biggest drop since July 1991. 
Company to pay $50 million fin~ 
Associated Press Freddie Mac neither admitted nor Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, 
denied wrongdoing in the accord but which blamed management miscon­
WASHINGTON -Mortgage finance agreed to refrain from future violations duct for the faulty accounting. company Freddie Mac on Thursday of the securities laws. In September 2004, an equally stun­agreed to pay $50 million to settle An accounting scandal erupted at the ning accounting scandal came to light Securities and Exchange Cor(lmission government-sponsored company in at No. 1 mortgage finance company charges that it fraudulently misstated June 2003 when it disclosed that it had Fannie Mae. Regulators eventually earnings over a four-year period. misstated earnings by some $5 billion imposed limits on the two companies' 
Four former Freddie Mac executives -mostly underreported -for 2000-multibillion-dollar mortgage debt hold­settled negligent conduct charges by 2002 to smooth quarterly volatility in ings, which they have been seeking to agreeing to pay a total of $515,000 in earnings and meet Wall Street expec­have liftf'd as a way to provide r.ash to civil lines and to make restitution total­tations. the mortgage market in the recent tur­ing $275,548. They are former presi­The company's top executives -moil. dent and chief operating officer David Glenn, Clarke and then-chairman and Fannie Mae was fined $400 million Glenn, ex-chief financial officer chief executive Leland Brendsel -in May 2006 in a settlement with Vaughn Clarke, and former senior vice were ousted. The events shocked Wall OFIIEO and the SEC -one of tho presidents Hobert Dean and Nazir Street, where Freddie Mac, the nation's largest civil penalties ever in an Dossani. second-largest buyer and guarantor of accounting fraud case. 
"We take these charges seriously, homo mortgages, long had enjoyed a Fannie and Freddie were creatnd by 
and that's why the Freddie Mac of reputation as a steady performer and Congress to make mortgages afford­today is a very different company than reliable corporate player. able and pump cash into the market by the Freddie Mac of the past," said McLean. Va.-based Freddie paid a buying blocks of home loans from Hichard Syron, Freddie Mac's chair­then-record $125 million civil fine in lenders and bundling them into securi­man and chief executive otl'icer. 2003 in a settlement with the Office of tins for sale to investors worldwide. 
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 28, 2007 
Judge releases one Jena 6 teen 
Associated Press 
.IHNA, La. -A black teenager whose prosecution in the beating of a white classmatn promptnd a mas­sive civil rights protest here walked out of a courthouse Thursday after a judge orderml him freed. 
Mychal Bell's release on $45,000 bail came hours af"tpr a prosecutor confirmed tw would no longer seek an adult trial for tlw 17-year­old. BPII, one of the tennagnrs known as the .lena Six, still fa1~es trial as a juve­nile in the December beating in this small central Louisiana town. 
"We still have mountains to ~~limb, but at least this is closnr to an even playing f"inld," said tlw Hnv. AI Sharpton, who hnlpml organ­izo last wnnk's proll~st. 
"lin goos home heeauso a lot of pnopln lnft tlwir home and stood up for him," Sharpton said as Boll stood smiling 1wxt to instigated the attack. 
The charges have been dropped to aggravated sec­ond-degree battery in four of the cases. One defendant has yet to be arraigned. The sixth defendant's case is snaled in juveniln court. 
Bell's lawyer, Carol Powell Lnxing, said his next hearing is set for Tuesday. 
Critics accuse Walters, who is white, of prosecuting blacks more harshly than whites. They note that he filed no charges against thrne white teens suspended from the high school over allegations they hung nooses in a tree on campus not long before fights between blacks and whites, including the attack on Barker. 
An estimated 20,000 to 25,000 protesters marched in Jena last week in a scene that evoked the early years of thn civil rights movement. 
Walters said the demon­stration had no influence on 
his decision 
not to press 
the adult 

him. "There's only one charges, and "Thnrn's ended his
person who could have
only one pl~r­news con­
brought me through
son who could ference by have brought this and that's the saying that me through only God
good Lord. " 
this and that's kept the the good protest Lord," Bell Mychal Bell peaceful. told reporters Jena Six teen "The only 
later in front 
of his father's 
house. 
District Attorney Heed Waltnrs' decision to abandon adult charges means that Bell, who had faced a maxi­mum of 15 years in prison on his aggravated second­dngree battery convietion last month, instead could be held only until he turns 21 if he is found guilty in juvenile court. 
The conviction in adult court was thrown out this month by the state 3rd Circuit Court of Appeal, whieh said Bell should not hav1~ lwen tried as an adult on that particular eharge. 
Waltnrs had said he would appnal that deeision. On Thursday, hn said he still belinves thnre was legal mnrit to trying Bell as an adult hut decided it was in thn lwst interest of the vie­tim, .Justin Barker, and his family to Int the juvnnile court handle the case. 
"Thny are on board with what I deeidnd," Waltnrs said at a Iwws conference. 
B1dl l"a1~ns juvnniln 1:ourt ehargns or aggravated sec­ond-dngn~e battery and con­spinu:y to commit that ITime. 
lin is among six bl;u:k .Jnna lligh School students arrnst­nd in l>nePmlwr aftnr a boat­ing that lnf"t Barknr uncon­scious and bloody, though tlw victim was abln to al.tond a school function lall~r that day. J.'our of tlw ddnndants wPrn 17 at tlw time, whil:h madt> thPm adults undPr Louisiana law. 
Thos1• four and Bnll, who was Ih, all WPrn initially 1·.hargnd with attmnptod mur­dnr. Walters has said lw sought to have Boll trind as an adult b1~causn lw alrnady had a criminal n~eorrl, and boca u s I' h P bnl i ~~ v n d Bnil 
way -let 
me stress 
that -the 

only way that I believe that me or this community has been able to endure the trau­ma that has been thrust upon us is through the prayers of the Christian peo­ple who have sent them up in this community," Walters said. 
"I firmly believe and am confident of the faet that had it not been for the direct intervention of the Lord Jesus Christ last Thursday, a disaster would have hap­pened. You can quote me on that." 
The Rev. Donald Sibley, a black .lena pastor, called it a "shame" that Walters credit­nd divine intervention for the protesters acting responsibly. 
"What I'm saying is, the Lord Jesus Christ put his influence on those people, and they responded accord­ingly," Walters responded. 
After the news conference, Sibley told CNN that Walters had insulted the protesters by making a false sp,paration betwP-en "his Christ and our Christ." 
"For him to usc it in the sense that bncause his Christ, his Jesus, because he prayed, because of his police, that everything was peaceful and was decent and in order -that's not thn truth," Sibley said. 
Walters has said repeatedly that Barknr's suffering has been lost in the furor over the ease, and that what hap­pl~nnd to the teen was much morn severe than a school­yard fight. 
Walters also has dnfended his decision not to snek charges in the hanging of the nooses, which he said was "abhorrent and stupid" but" not a crime. 
•

Three guilty In n1ob shooting 
Chicago police Officer Anthony
Associated Press 
Doyle, was convicted of racket­

ClliCAGO -A federal jury eering conspiracy but not held three aging mobsters accused of any murders. responsible for 10 murders After convicting the four men, Thursday after an extraordi­the jury began a second round nary trial that included colorful of deliberations to determine witnesses who exposed the whether the defendants were seedy inner workings of organ­individually responsible for any ized crime in Chicago. of the 18 murders listed in the 
Jurors deadlocked on blame racketeering count, qualifying for eight other murders after them for possible sentence of eight days of deliberations in life in federal prison. one of the biggest mob trials in Calabrese's defense attorney the city's history. Joseph Lopez !crt the court­
Frank Calabrese Sr., 70; house grumbling that there was Joseph "Joey the Clown" no way to give his client a fair Lombardo, 78; and James trial. Marcello, 65, were held respon­"I don't think anyone chargnd 
sible for  mur­ with a case likn  
der, raising the  this  can  get  a  
maximum  sen- fair trial any­ 
tence  each  "Our work doesn't end  where, because  
faces to life. Jurors dead­locked on a  here. It's just a continuation ofa  of publicity prior to trial, bllcause of  
fourth dant,  defen­Paul  legacy ofhard work. "  shows that they make in  
Schiro, 70. Marcello,  Joseph Lopez  Hollywood and because of  
described  by  defense attorney  seripts  they  
prosecutors as  write  in  
a  top leader of  llollywood," he  
the  Chicago  said.  "AI  

Outlit, was held responsible for Capone is probably the most the June 1986 murder of Tony famous Chicagoan we have." "The Ant" Spilotro, the Chicago Movies and television often mob's longtime man in Las glamorize the mob, but the trial Vegas and the inspiration for showed its devastating effects the Joe Pesci character in the on real families, said FBI agent movie "Casino." Robert Grant. 
The defendants remained "Our work doesn't end here," poker-faced as U.S. District he said. "It's just a continuation Judge James B. Zagel's elerk of a legacy of hard work." read the verdicts one by one in Lombardo attorney Rick a packed federal courtroom. Halprin agreed that the Outfit's 
All four men were convicted reputation hung over the trial, Sept. 10 of taking part in a but said the government did a racketeering conspiracy that "remarkable" job in organizing included illegal gambling, extor­its case. tion, loan sharking and the 18 "Mitch Mars and his team did mob murders, which had gone a hell of a job of organizing this unsolved for decades. evidenee, sifting out what they 
A fifth defendant, retired didn't need; they're due the 
crndit for not overplaying thflir 
hand," Halprin said. 
In addition to Tony Spilotro's murder, Mareello was found rAsponsible for the death of the victim's brother, Michael. Witnesses said they were lured to a suburban basement where they were beaten and strangled at Marcello's direction. The brothers were later found buried in an Indiana eornfield. 
Lombardo, aceused of being the capo of a Chieago mob "street erew," was blamed for the September 1974 murder of businessman Daniel Snifert, a federal witness who was hunted down and shotgunned by masked gunmen. 
Joe Seifert, Daniel Seifert's son, said he attended nearly all of the trial because he was a child when his father was killed. 
"I just wanted some informa­tion," Jon Seifert said. "I IWVI~r had a total picture, so I wanted the total picture -to tit all tlw puzzle pieces together." 
lie said lw knows Lombardo will likely spend the rest of his life in prison, but "he's had a lot of time fhw." 
Calabrese, 70, a portly, beard­ed loan shark who aceording to witnesses doubled as a hit man, was found responsible for seven mob murders. Witnesses includ­ing his own brother, Nicholas Calabrese, said he strangled victims with a rope, then cut their throats to make sure tlwy were dead. 
Ellen Ortiz said she has been "hoping and praying" for the day when Calabrese would be held responsible for the July 1983 murder of her husband, Hichard D. Ortiz, who prosecu­tors say was killed because he had committed a murder not authorized by the Outfit. But she said it was a struggle to sit through the trial. 
CHECKING 
tHaf([mafepott eHeerl 
Open a Notre l)mne Hxleral Credit Union CheckingAccount today and we'll treat you to an awesome 'lailgate Party Package, including chair, un1brella, cooler, seat cttshion, and football. 
Plus, \ve'll enteryour nmne in a drawing for offour portable, football grills. 
And ifthat's not enough, you'll also receive: 
• FREE Checks 

• ()ne FREli: NSF H:~e 
• FREE Online Bill Papncnt 
,,,.~~~~~~ 
574/631~8222. 800/522-6611 "'''vw.ndfcu.org 
--------------. 

page 9 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 28, 2007 
Campuses adopt alert changes 
E-mait Facebook become main communication form after Tech shootings 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -When a masked freshman came to campus at St. John's University with what police said was a loaded rifle stieking out of a bag, the school alerted studenl<> via cell-phone text mes­sages within 18 minutes. 
And when a suicidal gunman W<L'> reported to be on the loose at the University of Wisconsin, the sdwol sent out mass e-mails and took out an ad on Facebook to warn studenl<>. 
As the school year starts, col­leges around the country are applying the lessons of Virginia Tech and using high technology to get the word out fast in a crisis. 
"This was certainly a surprise. No one thought that we would be testing this latest technology this quickly for an emergency," said James Pellow, executive vice president of St. John's. 
The 20,000-student Roman Catholic school in Queens activat­ed il<; new text mHssaging system just three weeks ago. The scare came on the same day that the student paper ran a front-page story on the system, under the blaring headline: "In case of emergency." 
This week's incidents at St. John's and UW-Madison -both of which ended without blood­shed -underscore how campus security has changed since Seung-llui Cho killed 32 people on the Virginia Tech campus in April. 
Cho shot his first two victims just after 7 a.m. More than two hours later, he massacred 30 peo­ple in a classroom building across campus. It was not until 9:26 a.m. that the school sent the first e­mail to students and faculty. An investigative panel concluded that lives could have been saved if alerts had been sent out earlier and classes canceled after the first burst of gunfire. 
Since then, hundreds of schools administrations have installed text-messaging systems to com­municate with students. 
Omnilert, a company based in Leesburg, Va., saw its business surge after the Virginia Tech ram­page. It is now supplying more than 250 colleges and universities around the country with instant messaging capability -a system called e2Campus. 
St. John's purchased its inCampuAlert text-messaging system from a California compa­ny called MIR3 Inc. over the sum­mer, also in response to the Virginia Tech slayings. 
The system sends a message not only to cell phones, but also to digital signs in public places like student unions or dorms, as well as to computers, PDAs and beep­ers. 
"Nearly every major college and university in the country is either in the process of implementing a text message warning system or seriously considering do it," said 
S. Daniel Carter, senior vice presi­dent of Security on Campus, a nonprofit organization based in King of Prussia, Pa., that pushes for safer college campuses. 
School officials have not com­pletely given up more traditional ways of communicating with stu­dents. 
Last week, after two students were shot and wounded at Delaware State University, cam­pus police and residence hall advisers knocked on doors and told students to stay in their rooms, and warnings were posted on the school's Web site and at dorms. 
But it is clear that schools are taking advantage of every innova­tion they can. 
In Wisconsin. officials paid the popular social networking site Facebook $100 to post a flier on the UW-Madison social network. The ad asked users to click on a link for an update on the campus emergency. That took them to the university's home page, which carried the latest information on the search for a suicidal gunman. Authorities still had not located the man as of Thursday. 
In the St. John's incident, text messages were sent so quickly that a student who helped subdue the suspect felt his cellphone vibrate with the information while he was restraining the gun­man. 
The message to student read: "From Public Safety. Male was found on campus with rifle. Please stay in your buildings until further notice. He is in custody, but please wait until the all clear." 
The text messaging "worked like a charm," New York City Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said a day later at a cere­mony to honor the student, a police cadet, who helped restrain the suspect. "Young people today are incredibly wired, and admin­istrators have the technology at their fmgertips -once they put it in place," said Amanda Lenhart, a researcher for the Pew Internet and American Life Project, a Washington-based nonprofit organization. 
More than 70 percent of 18-to 29-year-olds own a cell phone, and 92 percent of them text mes­sage, according to a 2006 Pew survey. 

Alaba111a 111akes plans for fallout shelter 
of protection that would make
Associated Press 
Dr. Strangelove proud, with 
HUNTSVILLE, Ala.-In an space for an arena-size crowd age of al-Qaida, sleeper cells of some 20,000 people. and the threat of nuclear ter­Last mined in the early '50s, rorism, Huntsville is dusting the limestone quarry is dug off its Cold War manual to cre­300 yards into the side of the ate the nation's most ambitious mountain, with ceilings as high fallout-shelter plan, featuring as 60 feet and 10 acres of floor an abandoned mine big space covered with jagged enough for 20,000 people to rocks. Jet-black in places with take cover underground. a year-round temperature of 
Others would hunker down about 60 degrees, it has a in college dorms, churches, colony of bats living in its high­libraries and research halls est reaches and baby stalac­that planners hope will bring tites hanging from the ceiling. the community's shelter capac­"It would be a little trying, ity to 300,000, but it's better or space for than the alter­every man, native," said
"Al-Qaida, we know, is 
woman and Andy Prewett, 
child in interested in a nuclear a manager 
Huntsville and capability. It's our with The Land the surround­Trust of
nation's fear that a
ing county. Huntsville and 
Emergency nuclear weapon N o r t h 
planners in could get into Alabama, a Huntsville -nonprofit
terrorists' hands.,, 
an out-of-the­preservation way city best group that known as the Charlie Dent owns the mine home of Pa. Congressman and is making 
NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center -say the idea makes sense because radioactive fallout could be scattered for hundreds of miles if terrorists detonated a nuclear bomb. 
"If Huntsville is in the blast zone, there's not much we can do. But if it's just fallout ... shelters would absorb 90 per­cent of the radiation," said longtime emergency manage­ment planner Kirk Paradise, whose Cold War expertise with fallout shelters led local lead­ers to renew Huntsville's pro­gram. 
Huntsville's project, devel­oped using $70,000 from a Homeland Security grant, goes against the grain because the United States essentially scrapped its national plan for fallout shelters after the col­lapse of the Soviet Union. Congress cut off funding and the government published its last list of approved shelters at the end of 1992. 
After Sept. 11, Homeland Security created a metropoli­tan protection program that includes nuclear-attack prepa­ration and mass shelters. But no other city has taken the idea as far as Huntsville has, officials said. 
Many cities advise residents to stay at home and seal up a room with plastic and duct tape during a biological, chem­ical or nuclear attack. Huntsville does too, in certain cases. 
Local officials agree the "shelter-in-place" method would be best for a "dirty bomb" that scattered nuclear contamination through con­ventional explosives. But they say full-fledged shelters would be needed to protect from the fallout of a nuclear bomb. 
Program leaders recently briefed members of Congress, including Rep. Charlie Dent, R­Pa., who called the shelter plan an example of the "all­hazards" approach needed for emergency preparedness. 
"Al-Qaida, we know, is inter­ested in a nuclear capability. It's our nation's fear that a nuclear weapon could get into terrorists" hands," Dent said. 
As fallout shelters go, the Three Caves Quarry just out­side downtown offers the kind it available for 
free. 

In all, the Huntsville­Madison County Emergency Management Agency has iden­tified 105 places that can be used as fallout shelters for about 210,000 people. They are still looking for about 50 more shelters that would hold an additional100,000 people. 
While officials have yet to launch a campaign to inform people of the shelters, a local access TV channel showed a video about the program, which also is explained on a county Web site. 
If a bomb went off tomorrow, Paradise said, officials would tell people where to find shel­ter through emergency alerts on TV and radio stations. "We're pretty much ready to go because we have a list of shelters," he said. 
Most of the shelters would offer more comfort than the abandoned mine, such as buildings at the University of Alabama in Huntsville that would house 37,643. A single research hall could hold more than 8,100. 
Homeland Security spokes­woman Alexandra Kirin said of Huntsville's wide-ranging plan: "We're not aware of any other cities that are doing that." 
Plans call for staying inside for as long as two weeks after a bomb blast, though shelters might be needed for only a few hours in a less dire emergency. 
Unlike the fallout shelters set up during the Cold War, the new ones will not be stocked with water, food or other sup­plies. For survivors of a nuclear attack, it would be strictly "BYOE" -bring your own everything. Just throw down a sleeping bag on the courthouse floor -or move some of the rocks on the mine floor -and make yourself at home. 
"We do not guarantee them comfort, just protection," said Paradise, who is coordinating the shelter plans for the local emergency management agency. 
Convenience store owner Tandi Prince said she cannot imagine living in the cavern after a bombing. 
"That would probably not be very fun," she said. 

Tt--IE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, September 28, 2007 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRAI'OR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 

EDITORIAL CARTOON
(574) 631-7471 fAX 

THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna MANAGING EDITOR 8USINF~'iS MANAGER Ken Fowler KyleWesr 
A.'i.~'I; MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: joey King SPORTS EOITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: 'lac Andrews SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler I'IJOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPIIIC~ EDITOR: Madeline Nics ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Correz An DI'$1GN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 
Bookstore's gouging must stop 
Everybody knows that the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Did copyright and production fees inernase by as much as is expensive. It's almost not worth complaining about. 210 percent'? Customers know it's something they have to tolerate, and, Maybe the Bookstore is right. and these fees really do for the most part, they do. People don't expect competitive increase at more than 50 times the rate of inllation, starting prices at the Bookstore. If customers really want that "Play last year and last year only. Yet even in this (astronomieally Like a Champion Today" sign, there's only one place they improbable) event. the least the Bookstorn could do is can get it, and it's understood that the price reduee-or disclos1i-its markup. won't be reasonable. Until then, professors should save students 
What's not understood is the recent spike money by putting more material on electronic
OBSERVER 
in course packet prices. reserve, a method often more eonvenient than Last year, a theology packet was $30. This course packets.
Editorial
year, it was $93 -up 210 pnreent. People might tolerate paying 210 percent more for Notre Dame-brand apparel, but not for-pho­tocopies. 
Still, the Bookstore knows it's the only supplier, and it shows no sense of obligation to adjust its (undisclosed) markup -like the markup it appltes to other course mate­rials. Instead, it eites increased eopyright and production fees as primarily responsible for the new prices. 
The University eould also do its part by allow­ing competition. Tlwre's no nxeuse for selling black and whitn photocopies to collnge students 
for more than $90. If the University wants to support a monopoly, it shouldn't support a monopoly that gouges its students. 
Any indication that the Bookstore actually cares about aeademics over markup might lead somn on campus to snn it as a community supplier-instead of a nnenssary evil. 
(574) 6J 1-6927 
ADVERTISING 
('574) 6.31-6900 ohservad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 63 I -4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-'i323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.cdu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 0BSERVERONL/N£ www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independem, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial comem, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the adminisrcarion ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Ao;sisranr Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vit"wpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. l.t•trers ro rhc Editor mu.<r be signed and must include conracr information. 
QumioriS "K"rrling ObsmJer polici~s should b~ dimud to Editor in ChiefMtlddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

rhr OMctvtr (USPS ';IJ'J 2·-11M)IJ) i, puhJi,hcd Mnndo~y thr.)ugh Fn<by n:~p1 during 1.'11..1111 and Y.l(,uiun pcnu • .k {\ mh.trtpu•m til Tbc Ohservcr is $lOU fUr one IIC.ld~mic ye.u, i'S,Iuronctc:m~lcr. 
Th1· Oh..crvtr i• puhli\h•:•l .u POSTMASTER 
lilA Sum I• Di•u••K H..JI S<ntl .1ddre.s' currecriont to: 
NuLre D.u\1t', IN 16'i'it..077"J Thr Ollkrver 
i'rrwdit:.1l flU~I.&j.tC pllttl at Nnln: l).mw P.O. Huxn9 
Nntrc D;~.rnc, tN 4fJ":i'j(,..IJ779 
'l11c ('>tl'l'f\'rr 1!1• nu:mhcr of 1hc ..U.wlt.t.Hnll'rt:loll All r~prui.luutnrt tiglnJIIIR: 
/t"'oi'!Yc:d, 

QUeSTioN: 
f)oe~ You~ 

UNI Ver<(AL I-IPALTr/ 
CA~e 7>LAN coVeR ~IDs? ~IT 
\)0\NN,
SILL.. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 
Kaitlynn Riely Chris Hine Liz Harter Bill Brink Katie Peralta Samantha Graphics Leonard Julie Grisanti Meaghan Veselik Viewpoint Scene Kara King Michelle Fordice 
Panda Express 
Observer Poll 

What restaurant would you most like to see on campus? 
Votes Percentage 

Pancra Bread 389 39% Chipotk 283 29% Taco Bell 122 12% Wendy's 114 12% Panda Express 78 8% 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Nobody realizes that some 
people expend tremendous energy 
merely to be normal." 
Albert Camus French existentialist 
---------------~---------------------------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Friday, September 28, 2007 page 11 
Giving our best to America 
Tragically, the number of American troops killed overseas surpassed the 3,800 mark this week while we at home sat fat as marshmallows. For nearly six years now, we remain shrouded by fear­
mongering and removed from the reality of combat. Americans cower in trepidation of an attack on our homefront, but wallow without so much as sacrific­


ing a gallon of gaso-Gary Caruso line to aid the war effort. Even our Capitol once-celebrated 
Comments 

and renamed "free­dom fries" at congressional cafeterias have reverted back to the French. 
Whether described as a war on terror, a war against insurgents or a quagmire caught in the middle of a civil war, the savage brutality our troops face is typical of every war. This writer recently wit­nessed firsthand the carnage against our troops when the wounded landed at Andrews Air Force Base. Yet absent in our war effort is sacrifice from American society. Rather, we allow "them" to han­dle the conflict-politicians, the Pentagon, private contractors and intelli­gence gathering operatives. The less Americans are involved, the less we know or even care about the details of war. 
Within our world of not knowing the 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

details thrives the shortcomings of our current war operations. For example, at one point, Jane Fonda bought more armor for our troops than the Pentagon. This week, the war's cost surprisingly jumped by an additional $42 billion with­out warning. We are oblivious to the security actions of our government done in the name of us. It is time to involve every citizen and to ask for sacrifice. 
This week marks the 38th time the number of our dead surpasses another increment of one hundred. That mile­stone really marks another hundred parts of America lost, another hundred units of freedom lost, another hundred lost fragments of what we knew as American life but now have lost forever. Those hundred have given the ultimate while we ate potato chips, drank beer and watched professional sporting events. 
Nearly five years ago when our troops invaded Iraq and Republicans controlled all branches of government, Americans were not asked to partner with the troops. We could have changed our fat, lazy lives by reducing our oil consump­tion through less driving and smaller vehicles. We should have been asked to buy victory bonds to pay for this war. 
It was the ideal time to enact an energy policy that removed our soft, plump bel­lies pressed behind the steering wheels of such large, wasteful and unnecessary super-sized "look-at-me" luxury SUVs like Escalades, Navigators and Avalanches. Ironically, most principal owners of companies awarded military contracts (both large and small) person­ally own, rent or share at least one luxu­ry SUV within their families. 
Instead of collecting revenue and involving the public, our free-market governmental leaders turned to entre­preneurs who grew rich-selling "support the troops" ribbon magnets still dis­played on so many vehicles. Someday we will fund this trillion-dollar war through what Ronald Reagan called "revenue enhancements." Until then, we look back on what Americans have actually funded thus far -a silly vehicle magnet. 
Our lessons learned should be rooted in an appreciation of past wars. The debut this week of "The War," a PBS doc­umentary by Ken Burns, dramatically chronicles the tragically sad sacrifices American families endured throughout World War II. It reminds us of the hun­dreds of thousands of sons, brothers and fathers who were asked to gamble their lives for victory and who consequently were slaughtered in foreign lands. The documentary offers us guidelines on how to really support our troops. 
Americans dedicated themselves to the World War II effort when automobile plants produced hundreds of planes a day. Yet, today we wait for the produc­tion of only 1,200 of 8,000 new M-wrap armored vehicles while American blood is shed at a rate of nearly 100 per month. Everyday life in World War II included "victory" goals such as cultivat­ing victory gardens, constructing victory bins to fight waste and even collecting two billion pounds of waste kitchen fat with enough glycerin for 10 billion rapid fire canon shells. A skillet of bacon grease was known as a little munitions factory. 
Perhaps we need such reminders of "victory" today or vivid images of dead and wounded American soldiers tele­vised each evening to slap us awake. Once we were awakened in a personal attack on a September day. But now, most of us remain in an arm chair. Rather than each of us representing a unit of freedom, of personally changing our lives to better our nation, we let "them" do it for us in our uniquely spoiled way. 
The "them" has just suffered their 3,800th death. The challenge now goes out to the fat, the lazy, the loud and the certain -give your best to America by sacrificing for the war. Burns ends his segments with an inspiring song that each of us should strive to make our own theme: "America, America, I gave my best to you. America, America, I gave my best to you." 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a communications strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol. com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Was it sarcasm? 
As an alumnus of this University, I find that Mike Laskey's Viewpoint letter argu­ing that Notre Dame is a politically activist campus because students wore The Shirt on Friday ("Shirt solidarity day shows activism," Sept. 26) to be deeply embar­rassing. Football at Notre Dame is woven into the social fabric of the University, and as such, Friday's show of support was directly involved with the social life of the student body. To claim that it is a sign of political activism, however, is a pompous presumption. 
Meanwhile, late Wednesday night, news sources reported that the Myanmar gov­ernment initiated a crackdown on peaceful pro-democracy demonstrations led by monks. China steadfastly refuses to allow even a resolution of condemnation pass through the U.N. Security Council as inno­cent civilians are being arrested and killed. 
Show solidarity by choosing this Friday to wear orange in support of those monks and their battle for their lives and freedom in Myanmar. Rally outside of the Main Building in favor of higher wages for those people who feed and clean up after you every day. Until events like those regularly take place on campus, don't claim that because Notre Dame students are support­ing other Notre Dame students, we've somehow overcome our political apathy. And don't ever place wearing The Shirt at an equal footing of overcoming adversity with those who are fighting in foreign lands for their basic human rights. Every time you do, it only serves as a clear exam­ple at how shamefully disconnected from the outside world some can become while at Notre Dame-a place where we're expected to be the best and brightest in this country. 
Greg Dworjan alumnus Class of 2007 Sept. 27 

Evolved ... 
•
campaigns reach further 
Andrew Nesi's assertion that the motivation of political candidates to create MySpace or Facebook accounts is merely to ingratiate themselves with youth while appearing technologically "hip" at the expense of real persuasion, is false ("An inconvenient truth," Sept. 27). 
Along with an evolving democracy comes an evolving sys­tem of campaigning. The printing press created the world of campaign literature and the internet revolutionized its pub­lications; the next step in this process is the usage of online social networking to fmd voting bases. Whether or not we college students, who still believe (and perhaps with good reason) that Facebook should exclusively serve our social lives, the undeniable fact is that it does not. Facebook has become a giant in information exchange. I would view it as irresponsible and illogical if political candidates did not tap into such a widely used method of communication. 
From personal experience, the Facebook applications that allow users to support candidates have not "dumbed down" political dialog, but increased it. OK, increased it with our convenience in mind, but that isn't such a bad thing, is it? I doubt I'm the only one who has posted on someone's wall about their precarious support of a candidate. 
While our natural instinct is to conserve old methods, I'll suppress my desire for nostalgia and opt for Microsoft Word 2007, even if a type-writer seems more noble. 
Cynthia Weber freshman Pasquerilla West Hall Sept 27 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE

routes, coverage audibles and  zone  make like Hoggie Bush and pull ofT stut­ have everything you nend  to get a  leg  
By TAE ANDREWS  reads, all within the reach of your twid­ ter steps and other shifty moves to rip  up on opposing offenses and shut them  
Scene Editor  dling thumbs. Plus, NCAA 08 offers  ofT scintillating runs and make opposing  down short of a new signal stealing  
nifty new motion plays sporting 11ashy  teams (and by extension, the unfortu­ option inspired by Bill Belichick's das­ 
II' it ain't brokn, don't fix it.  gmen arrows which automatically put  nate soul directing the defense with the  tardly dneds with a camera.  
EA Sports dnvnlopnrs took good lwed  your players in motion, giving them a  controller sitting next to you on the  II' you're in it for the long haul and  
ol' this agn-old advicn in creating NCAA  head  start and  some  couch) look plain silly.  fenllike delivnring our alma mater from  
200H. subtly tweaking and adding a fnw  momentum in the quest  Even better, the high­ her current football wons, you  can  
nnw  wrinkles to  their tried-and-true  for  the  end  zone.  As  light stick is tailored to  throw the gamn into dynasty modo and  
l'ormula in tlw latost incarnation of this popular vidno game franchise. For colloge football l'ans itching for thnir video gamn fix, NCAA 200H remains the dnfinitive hook-up for some pixilatnd pandemonium. For those who havo tho misfortune of not possessing 4.:~ spnPd or a hand cannon powerful  always, NCAA '08 fea­tures all manner of play­books and offensive styles to rain ruin down on your opponents, hav­ing added most recently Boise State's legendary hook-and-ladder and  For those who have the misfortune ofnot possessing 4.3 speed or a hand cannon powerful enough to throw footballs over  the spncific player using it; lightning-quick backs and receivers will jukn defenders out of their jockstraps, while bigger, lumbering tight ends and fullbacks will just smash through  build your program up from scratch, recruiting players as you go in pursuit of gridiron glory. If you play as Notre Dame, good luck against USC and som£~ of the bigger boys on thn sclwdule; as of now there's no way to arrange to have the stadium grass grown longer to slow down electrifying opponents.  
nnough to throw footballs ovnr moun­tains. NCAA 200H is tho dosnst a couch quarterback can gnt to "the real deal." NCAA 200H is a control frnak 's game:  Statue of Liberty plays. As most red-blooded American males will tell you, the best part of  mountains, NCAA 2008 is the closest a couch quarterback can get to  enemy lines like tanks, dragging defenders with them or pancaking thern along the way.  Of course, no video game can encom­pass the all-inclusive experinnce that is college football, but NCAA comes pretty close. Pretty much the only things miss­ 
Thn gamn features a myriad of options  playing video games is  "the real deal. "  There  are  more  ing from the eurrent game arc the fans  
allowing the gamer to micro-manage  the trash talking. And  defensive options  as  doing student cheers and the band's  
ovnry aspnct of tho game. Well, almost  NCAA  2008  offers  well, including quartnr­ hall'time show, although you can put on  
ovnrything-tho folks  at EA Sports  garners a whole slew of  back contain dnfensive  a show of your own with all the  new  
havn yP1  to add  a  "Post-game Press  nnw weapons in which  audibles  to  prevent  high-octane hijinks available at your  
Confornncn" option in which the coach  to embarrass friends and foes, includ­ opposing signal-callers from flying the  disposal. For rookie garners and  sna­ 
can  nmbarrass himsnlf on  television  ing fake punts, direct snaps and 11ea  coup and picking up massive chunks of  soned vetnrans a like, NCAA '08 fixes to  
(ala Mike Gundy or .John L. Smith), but  flickers.  yardage on the ground, safe zones and  impress.  
it's a fair bot thny'll add this feature in  Perhaps the best new feature is the  different blitz packages. The hit stick  
tho f'uturtL  aptly-named Highlight stick. which  returns in order to deliver bone-jarring  
On  tho of'f'ensivn sido of the ball,  functions much like the juke stick of  tackles and punishing take-downs on  Contact Tae Andrews  at  
NCAA 'OH  has all kinds of new  hot  previous years, only now the player can  opposing offenses. In other words, you  tandrewI @nd.s=du  


movie I've gone to see, but I cannot  est tension, or the one meaningful  such gems as the latnst "Din liard"  
By MICHELLE FORDICE Assistant Scene Editor  resist. Besides, there is something to be said for the excitement of seeing it  point. There are several movies that I abandoned the desire to see-, certain  sequel. Sometimes trailers are disappoint­ 
in the theatre, and I can make sure  that in the two and a half minutes  ing. They can be clieh(J and pre­ 
Movie trailers. They're like the mini  everyone with me is paying attention  before another film I caught every­ dictable, give away too mueh -or  
candy bars you steal out of jars and  to the good ones.  thing I needed to and the rest could be  simply do nothing to salvage a lost­ 
nat too many of at llallownen -deli­ The most exciting trailers are proba­ released without cost. Trailers aim to  cause film. or course, the worst is  
eious and bite sized. Thny let you  bly those that advertise films you're  display the best the films have to offer,  when they advertise a film you can't  
know what's coming up in the movie  already looking for- and for some movies,  wait to sec, but then let you know it  
world, take a peek at the film adapta­ ward to. Whether it's  that is not much.  will only be a limited release (in other  
tion of your favorite book, nnjoy a l'nw  the sequel to the  Not only do movie  words, it will not come to South Bond.  
seconds of your favorite actor or ;u:trnss, and knep you up to date on thn prderred political sentiments of the moment. all without taking morn  movie you adored,_ the adaptation of your favorite book or the movie that features  Studios manufacture the trailers for their movies to lure audiences into  trailers let you take a pnek at the movies you want to see, they give you some author­ There are movies I still have not man­aged to catch.). The rest of the time, they take you on a whirlwind tour of everything  
than a few minutes of your time. What morn can a busy eollege student who wants to do nothing morn than pro­erastinatn ask for?  the actor or actress you never mind seeing on a big screen, trail­ers gift you with the  seeing the advertised film, and as such they can often stand alone as  ity on the movies you want to be able talk about with other peo­ple. When the kid sit­ there is to look forward to in the upcoming months, tantalizing you baek into the world of popcorn and movie stars. So, despite the fact that I  
Studios manufacture tlw trailnrs for tlwir movies to lure audienens into  morsels that have to last you until the film  entertainment.  ting across the way in class launches into a  have a paper to write, I think it's time to go see what Colin Firth might bn up  
sneing the advertised film, and as  is released. I love get- commentary on global  to in "The Last Legion," try to under­ 
such tlwy can often stand alone as  ting to see the first  warming and cries  stand what "The Nines" is about, get  
entertainnwnt. I admit with pride that  glimpse of a story I  that everyone should  excited over "Elizabeth: The Golden  
one of my favorite ways of wasting  have adored for ages in a new visual  see "An Inconvenient Truth," or dis­ Age," and worry about what this  
time is sitting in front of my computnr  format, hoping that I will not be dis­ parages the health care system and  world has come to with a glimpse of  
watching tlw diversn lists of trailers  appointnd.  cites "Sicko, '' or discusses whatever  "Alvin and the Chipmunks." Augustine  
ofT of Yahoo or Apple. Time llins away  Sometimes trailers save you money.  else catches their fancy and has a  can wait.  
as I discern what movies I want to  There are some films that really aren't  complimentary film release, you can  
spend my money on and review for all  worth the exorbitant ticket price or  nod along with the rest of the class  The views expressed in this column are  
my favorite Observer readers.  the time to sec them. Trailers let you  like you know what it is they are talk­ those ofthe author and not necessarily  
Sometimes it is disappointing to real­ view the best parts of many movies  ing about. All without having to go to  those oJTht> Obsemer.  
ize I've already snen every one of the  without ever having to see it. You get  the movie that while good, probably  Contact Michelle Fordice at  
trailers in the previews bofore the  thn one good laugh, the point of high­ doesn't overwhelm your desire to sec  mfordice@nd. edu  

THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Friday, September 28, 2007 page 13 
By MARK WITTE Scene Writer 
If we had Viggo Mortensen on the line for pocket protection, Jimmy Clausen would never get sacked. 
In Eastern Promises, director David Cronenberg ("A Ilistory of Violence," "The Fly") reunites with Mortensen to draw us into the violent world of under­ground London crime, where throats are slit, people disappear and a hench­man mysteriously helps a damsel in dis­tress. 
When Anna Khitrova (Naomi Watts) stumbles upon the diary of a dying prostitute his ruthlessly stupid son, Kirill (Vincent Cassel). Kirill is not a terribly intelligent human being, and he does an excellent job of complicating the plot by whacking a family associate Soyka (Aleksandar Mikic). Luckily for him, he has Nikolai (Viggo Mortensen) as his driver and bodyguard. 
Nikolai is undoubtedly one of the most mysterious, badass characters you may ever see on the big screen. He becomes acquainted with Anna and helps her throughout the film, but it becomes dif­ficult to tell whether he is helping her for her benefit or manipulating her other reasons because he keeps such a mysterious cool. At one point Anna asks him 
while delivering the how he can do what he
Cronenberg only lets us
girl's daughter, she does. His causal 
get so close. To take us
enters a world of trou­response: "I'm just a ble. Attached to the child any further, might be driver." for personal reasons, The film climaxes
to grapple too much in 
Anna becomes intent on when Soyka's family
the dark. 
discovering more about comes to town looking 
the history of the baby's mother. She tries to have the diary translated, ending up on the doorstep of restaurant owner Semyon (Armin Mueller-Stahl), who just so hap­pens to be the head of a ruthless Bussian mob -the Vory V. Zakone. (The mob's name might not sound very scary on the paper, but whenever it is mentioned in the film, all the characters quickly shut up.) 
Not everything goes as planned, and it turns out the diary contains some incriminating entries about Semyon and for retribution, Semyon 
starts making demands of Anna, and the dead prostitute's baby suddenly disappears. 
Cronenberg's latest work is not an action movie, but the film is not short on violence. There are no shootouts, but Cronenberg's uncanny ability to make his violence brutally realistic causes the few short scenes of killing we do witness to be more disturbing than many recent World War II epics. There is one partic­ular scene in which Nikolai fights his way out of a sauna, that is so viciously 
Eastern Promises 
Directed by: David Cronenberg Starring: Viggo Mortensen, Naomi Watts, Vincent Cassel 


Viggo Mortensen plays Nikolai Luzhin, a ruthless crimnal tied to one of London's notorious orgainized crime families. 
scarring, audiences' 
retinas may never ·recover. 
While the plot seems 
to resolve itself a bit too 
easily, the acting per­
formances are a treat. 
The transformation 
Mortensen makes for his 
role is so convincing 
that it may take you 
twenty or thirty minutes 
to realize that it is actu­
ally him you are seeing 
on the screen. The true 
delight he brings to his 

courtesy 

Director David Cronenberg made "Eastern Promises" brutally realistic. 
performance is the way he pulls off a character whose nature is shrouded in mystery, yet so fascinating in its allure. 
Mueller-Stahl does an eerily remark­able job playing a character who pre­tends to be a gentle grandfather while setting in motion cruel and ruthless plans for the preservation of his family. Watts' performance as the courageous midwife who wants only to protect a motherless infant is compelling, but she is largely overshadowed by Mortensen. 
Almost none of the story focuses on the business of the mob; rather, Cronenberg chooses to examine the nature of his characters. In doing so he asks a number of questions about the dark alleyways of human intention and even takes us down a number of them. 
The final shot of the film is an unset­tling, yet beautiful zoom that moves in slowly on Mortensen's character, as if it is probing into Nikolai's mysterious nature, but Cronenberg only lets us get so close. To take us any further, might be to grapple too much in the dark. 
Contact Mark Witte at mwitte@nd.edu 
Bring Dave Matthevvs to ca111pus 
By MATT MANLEY 
Scene Writer 
We have until midnight October 15. 
Less than three weeks. 
AT&T is putting on a contest ­The World's Loudest Pep Rally. The college that sends the most invites in relation to its population will have the Dave Matthews Band come and play a concert at its campus. As of right now, Notre Dame is at No. 38, which means if we are to get Dave to play here, we need to mobi­lize fast. The best way? The follow­ing two-step process. 
First step: Join the Facebook group "Bring Dave Matthews Band to Notre Dame!!" The group simpli­fies the invite process, helps you out if you run into problems and makes you look a little cooler on the social networking site. 
Second step: Invite Dave. You need to follow the link provided by the Facebook group to attblue­room.com and register. You will then have to give your e-mail among other information. Do not be afraid, AT&T will not send you any­thing unless you go through the trouble of actually checking some boxes to ask for information to be sent to you. 
But the simplest way join in the invite process is to send text mes­sages -a lot of text messages. Inviters are allowed to send out invitations up to 50 times per day, a fact of which Notre Dame needs to take full advantage. It may seem somewhat excessive, but if it means being able to tell your kids that you saw Dave Matthews Band in concert at Notre Dame, would you not be grateful for the opportunity? To invite via text message, simply text "DMB" to 959. 
The four other methods involve a little more work but give the added bonus of being entered concurrently into separate competitions with their own awards. These contests are for individuals rather than schools, and each competition sup­plies a winner with a trip for two, hotel accommodations and two VIP tickets to the concert. So even if Notre Dame does not win the over­all competition, by no means is see­ing Dave in concert out of reach for a talented student. 
These individual competitions are photo, movie, essay, and audio invites. Each entry will be judged on creativity (40 percent), humor and entertainment value (30 per­cent), and quality of delivery (30 percent). Submitting photos is an easy and fun way to invite, but choosing another medium might mean less competition and a higher chance of winning the individual competition. 
Whichever the ideal means of invitation, the fact remains that Notre Dame is still farther down the list than preferred, and we would not want to lose to Baylor, the U.S. Air Force Academy or the University of Tulsa who currently top the list. 
So here's the game plan: One, join the Facebook group; two, register; three, text "DMB" to 959 as many times as you can. Lets bring Dave Matthews to campus. 
Contact Mark Manley at Mark.A.Manley.17@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, September 28, 2007 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Welsh Fan1ily do-wns defending chan1ps, Lyons rolls 
By ERIC PRISTER and 
MEGHAN McMAHON Sports Writers 
Welsh Family 6, Pasquerllla West 0 
Two seemingly unstoppable ommses were overshadowed by two stining defenses Thursday as 
Welsh  Family  defeated  
Pasquerilla West 6-0.  
The  Whirlwinds,  who  had  

seored four touchdowns in each of their first three games, were held to only two first downs by an aggressive Purple Weasel delimse. 
Welsh Family's defense enjoyed sueeess of its own, reeording live interceptions, including two by senior Angela MeKenzie, and held Pasquerilla West scoreless. 
"Our defense really stepped up and played a 1-,<reat game," Welsh senior defensive eoordinator Paul Carlson said. "Our goal was to make them throw ... and we piekfld up five intereeptions that was the game plan." 
The Whirlwinds scored the only points of the game during their first drive of the seeond half. Junior quarterbaek Jenni Gargula completed a fourth­down pass to put Welsh Family in the red zone. Gargula capped ofl' the drive with a touchdown pass to senior eaptain Kelly Bushelle, who made a fingertip grab in the back eorner of the end zone. 
Pasquerilla West threatened on its next drive, but Welsh's defense stepped up again, sack­ing freshman quarterbaek Graee Orians three times and foreing a turnover. 
Weasels offensive eoordinator Justin Betz isn't worried about the laek of offense, though. 
"We just didn't exeeute when we needed to.... We'll make adjustments," he said. "We're still going to win the champi­onship. Nothing changes." 
The Whirlwinds have ehampi­onship thoughts as well. 
"We plan to go undefeated and go to the Stadium," Carlson said. 
Both teams eontinue their title runs on Sunday, as Pasquerilla West, now 2-1, takes on Pangborn, and Welsh Family plays Lyons. 
Lyons 27, Breen-Phillips 0 
There was the option, the hook-and-ladder and the Statue of Liberty. And Lyons had a Fiesta at the expense of Breen­Phillips. 
The Lions asserted their offen­sive dominance and trampled the Babes 27-0. 
"It was a really big win, espe­cially coming off a tough loss last week," sophomore quarterbaek Claire Connell said. 
Lyons' offense looked as if it had stolen Boise State's play­book. In its second drive of the game, Lyons perfeetly executed a pair of 20-yard plays -Connell ran an option-pitch to junior run­ning back Shannon Brady and a hook-and-ladder later in the drive. Connell completed the drive with a 15-yard touchdown pass to sophomore Maria Petnuch. 
Breen-Phillips responded on the next play with its only end zone visit of the game, an 85­yard pass from junior quarter­baek and captain Melissa Meagher. Unfortunately for the Babes, the touchdown was ealled baek on a penalty. 
Sueh was the Babes' luck throughout the contest. The offense had some tremendous receptions and got as dose as the 10-yard line, but the Babes were plagued with too many dropped balls to make it into the end zone. 
"We need to start eombining good plays in single possessions," Meagher said. "Sometimes we make some really ineredible eatehes of runs, but we don't string them together." 
The Lyons offense was too much for the Babes to handle. Freshman running back Neva Lundy's spin moves propelled the rushing game. Connell rushed for one touchdown and passed for three. two of whieh were to Petnuch. They even brought baek the Boise State style with a Statue of Liberty in the second quarter, resulting in a 25-yard gain. 
"We knew we had to turn things around," Connell said. "This game will give us the momentum we need for going up against Welsh [Family] on Sunday." 
The win improves the Lions' record to 2-1, while Breen­Phillips will go into Sunday's game against Lewis 3-1. 
Badin 13, Lewis 6, Suspended 
The Badin-Lewis game was suspended and postponed at halftime due to lightning and weather, senior Bullfrog Ginna Dybicz said. The Bullfrogs led the Chicks 13-7 at the time of sus­pension. The game will be resumed at a later date. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu and Meghan McMahon at Mmcmaho2@nd.edu 
MLB 
Phillies top Braves, tie Mets for lead in NL East 
three games left. The Phillies crowd of 40,589 eheered wildly and were seven games behind got a poor performance from 
Associated Press 
host Washington, which is com­and waved their white-and-red the Mets after losing to an unlikely source. Smoltz (14­
PIIILADELPIIIA The ing ofT a three-game sweep at "Fightin' Phils" towels. Colorado on Sept. 12. They 8) gave up six runs -five Philadelphia Phillies arc done Shea Stadium. The Mets host For a change, there were no remained one game behind San earned -and seven hits, strik­ehasing. Florida. "E-A-G-L-E-S" chants at Diego in the wild-card stand­ing out eight in four innings. It 
After 159 games, the Phillies "It's a good feeling," Howard Citizens Bank Park. ings. The Padres beat was his shortest outing since are finally atop the division said. "But, really, we haven't "I couldn't hear myself think. Milwaukee 9-5. The Rockies going 3 1-3 innings.~on May 29, standings-albeit tied with the done anything. We have three That was great," closer Brett are also a game behind the and only the fourth time in 32 free-falling New York Mets. games left. This is what it's all Myers said. Padres. starts he allowed more than 
Hyan Howard hit his 44th about." Kyle Kendrick (10-4) allowed After falling short in the final three earned runs. homer, Pat Burrell also con­Chipper Jones and Mark three runs and six hits in six weekend the last two seasons, "Everybody here can improve neeted and the Phillies roughed Teixeira hit consecutive homers innings. Tom Gordon escaped a the Phillies could be heading to on their year and I'm looking up John Smoltz, before hanging for the Braves, who were jam in the seventh, J.C. Romero the playoffs for the first time forward to it," Smoltz said of on for a 6-4 vietory over the mathematically eliminated pitches a scoreless eighth and since 1993. Meanwhile, Atlanta next season. Atlanta Braves on Thursday from postseason contention for Myers allowed a leadoff homer is going home for the second The Braves sliced Philly's night. the second straight year after to Jeff Francoeur in the ninth straight year after their lead in half when Jones hit an 
The eollapsing Mets lost 3-0 winning 14 straight division before getting three outs for his unprecedented string of divi­opposite-field, two-run homer to St. Louis to drop into a tie titles. 21st save in 24 chances. sion championships. and Teixeira followed with a with Philadelphia (87-72) for While the Phillies celebrated The Phillies hadn't spent a Desperate to keep their faint solo shot to cut it to 6-3 in the first plaen. Both teams have their 11th win in 14 games, a day in first place all season, playoff hopes alive, the Braves sixth. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
SCHOOL BUS SUBSTITUTE DRI-3 bdrm,2 full BA ranch at 52233 Moving on with my life 3 bdrm house. Spring Break 2008. VER NEEDED. Responsible, Ironwood Rd. Moving in with yours. Walk to ND. Washer &dryer. Sell Trips, dependable, safety conscious grad Many updates. Lake St. George is your new home $750/mo. Good neighborhood. Eam Cash and 
NOTICES 
student sought to drive a school New flooring in kitchen With an almost view of the dome Landlord does yard work. No Pets. Go Free. Home for sale at 1442 Sorin. Why bus for a private south-side SB & FR &newer cherry cabinets Sleep in one No Section B. Call574-250-1266. Call for group discounts. Rent When You Can Own. Newly school. Must be available when w/granite countertops of three suites Best Deals Guaranteed! Remodeled 2 Bedroom Home is needed (flexible) from 7 a.m. to &stainless steel appliances,glass-Taste the city water. It is sweet HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2008-Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Close To Notre Dame Campus. 8:15a.m., and 3:15p.m. to 4:30 enclosed porch New. 09: 3-9 BEDROOM HOMES. Bahamas, S.Padre, Florida. Remodeled Kitchen. New Carpet p.m. Each trip pays $33. Need a and 2-car garage. New Everything CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Call Bill574· 800·648-4849 or Over Hardwood Floors. $55.000. Commercial Driver License -will Just min. to ND. You can have it for some bling 532-1896. www.ststravel.com Kurt Ohlson 574-360-5962. Century train around your schedule and pay The MLS # to see on line is Not too bad for $345 thousand 21 Jim Dunfee Realty for your COL training, but must 218253. Call Jan Lazzara UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
have residency in Indiana. For For more info, on her band TICKETS Do not go it alone. If you or some-application/interview call574-291-please call 574-233-6141. one you love needs confidential 4200. Kristin Perkins WANTED -ND FOOTBALL TIX. support or assistance.
LOST AND FOUND 
at 574·274-2104 today PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570 please call LOST: Light blue pencil case that or visit me at Sr. Sue Dunn, OP,
FoR RENT 

says 'Le Petite Prince' on it. Call or FoR SALE www.kristinperk.com FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. at 1·7819. 
text Tara at 517-927-4193. ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232-For more information, visit our web· 4 bdrm,2.5 ba home at 4210 Cross Awesome riverfront new construe· LODGING FOR FOOTBALL 0964. www. victorytickets.com site at: http:l/osa.nd.edu/depart-Creek Dr. Great comer lot on a cui-lion 12 min. to NO. GAMES ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi· 
WANTED de-sac wlbig deck &fenced-in yard. 4 bdr,4bath,marble,ceramics,h/w Visit www.amishcountrybb.org ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. weekly ad in 
10 min. to ND. The MLS #is floors. for24 57 4-288-2726. THE OBSERVER. STUDENT WORK $12.75 base-219961 or www.Kristinperk.com. Or Jacuzzi,deck,pier. Quality Bed and Breakfast appt. Flexible schedules, no experi· call Kristin at 574-274-2104 today. 574-217·1557 Tatiana Accommodations. Buying BC/USC tix. 574-277-1659. Joba rules! ence needed. customer sales/serv· Non-smoking, ice, conditions apply, all ages 18+, Very nice 3 BR 2 BA ranch at 1213 Brick ranch w/walkout LL,gourmet Private Baths, SELLING NO-PURDUE TIX. 574-Wow, Thomson, the Mets choked 574·273-3835, www.workforstu· Climbing Rose Ln in Mishawaka, kitchen, vaulted ceilings. Park-like Full Breakfasts. 289-8048. on applesauce dents.com IN. street. 
Easy 12-15 min. drive to ND. Close to ND. Homes for 08-09. It's 2:23 on a.m. on Thursday night PART TIME help needed for small Fenced back yard, full basement 574-217-1557 4-6 bedrooms. PERSONAL and I'm sitting here typing this. This womens retail shop downtown w/egress window &large eat-in Tatiana Walk to ND. sucks. South Bend. Approximately 10·15 kitchen. Home is only 4 yrs. old. 574-876-7341. If you or someone you care about hours a week. Must be able to work Call Judy Allie at Call me fora For Football has been For the love of God, I just need to Saturdays. Apply in person: 574-220-9043 for your private list of properties near ND. weekends, sexually assaulted, visit fill up the rest of the space so I can Laura Lees, showing today. 574-217·1557 call http:l/osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. keep working on the three pages I 121 S. Michigan Street MLS #is 220031. Tatiana 57 4-532-1408. shtml need to finish so I could go home. 

OUND THE NATION 
Friday, September 28, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 15 
Major League Baseball 
American League East 

team  record  perc.  last 10  
Boston  94-64  .595  5·5  
New York  91-67  .576  7-3  
Toronto  81·77'  .513  7-3  
Baltimore  67-91  .424  3·7  
Tampa Bay  65-93  .411  4·6  

American League Central 

team record pPrC. last 10 Cleveland 94·64 .595 7-3 Detroit 87-72 .547 5·5 Minnesota 77-81 .487 5-5 Chicago 69·89 .437 6·4 Kansas City 68-90 .430 4·6 
American League West 

team mcord pPre. last 10 Los Angeles 92·67 .579 5·5 Seattle 84-74 .532 6-4 Oakland 75·84 .472 2·8 Texas 75-84 .472 5·5 
National League East 

team record perc. last 10 New York 87-71 .551 4-6 Phlladelphia 86-72 .544 7-3 Atlanta 83-75 .525 8-2 Washington 72-87 .453 6-4 Florida 68·90 .430 3-7 
National League Central 

team record perc. last 10 Chicago 83-75 .525 6·4 Milwaukee 81-n .513 5·5 St.Louis 74·84 .468 4-6 Cincinnati 71-87 .449 3-7 Houston 7D-88 .443 6·4 Pittsburgh 68·91 .428 2-8 
National League West -­

team record perc. lastfO 
Arizona  89-70  .560  6-4  
San Diego  87-71  .551  6~.4  
Colorado  86-72  .544  111-D  
Los Angeles  80-78  .506  1·9  
San Francisco  70-89  .440  4-6  

GB 
3.0 13.0 27.0 29.0 
GB 
7.5 17.0 25.0 26.0 
GB 
7.5 17.0 17.0 
GB 
1.0 4.0 15.5 19.0 
GB 
2.0 tto 12.0 1U 15.5 

':;;. 
1.5 2;5 8.5 19.0 
MIAA Women's Volleyball Standings 
team league overall 
Calvin  7-0  12·3  
Adrian  5·1  8·6  
Hope  5·2  10·5  
Tri-State  4·2  6·8  
SAINT MARY'S  3·4  6·8  
Albion  2·4  5·10  
Kalamazoo  2-5  5·9  
Alma  1·6  5·14  
Olivet  1-6  2-13  

around the dial 
MLB 
Tigers at White Sox 7 p.m., Comcast 
MLB 
Padres at Brewers 8 p.m., ESPN 

NCAA FOOTBALL West Virginia at South Florida 8 p.m.,ESPN2 
NBA 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK -The owner of the New York Knicks dismissed a top female executive solely in retaliation for accusing head coach Isiah Thomas of boorish behavior and to scare other unhappy employees, a lawyer said Thursday in closing argu­ments at the sexual harassment trial. 
Madison Square Garden "eompletely fabricated its reasons for firing" Anucha Browne Sanders, the plain­tiff in the $10 million law­suit, said her attorney, Anne Vladeck. 
In their closing argu­ments, defense lawyers argued Browne Sanders 
was doomed by her own failure to adapt to an orga­nizational shake up that began with Thomas's hir­ing in 2004. 
Vladeck argued the firing was meant "to impose fear in every Garden employee who may want to com­plain, particularly about a star" and send the mes­sage, "You will be attacked on every level: your integrity, character, hon­esty and competence." 
At the trial in Manhattan federal court, Browne Sanders leveled accusa­tions -denied by Thomas -that he routinely addressed her as "bitch" and "ho" during private meetings. Sueh conduct "may be OK at the Garden, but it's not OK under the law," Vladeck said. 
MSG and its chief execu­tive, James Dolan, should be forced to pay punitive damages because money "is the language the defen­dants understand," the lawyer told a jury of five women and three men. 
Earlier Thursday, MSG attorney Ronald Green claimed a series of clashes with Thomas and star guard Stephon Marbury, poor job performance and personal financial woes put her in a precarious posi­tion that prompted her to make false claims. 
"That's not about sexual harassment," he said. "That's about team poli­tics." 

Thomas's attorney argued that Browne Sanders defied logic by tes­tifying that the once-abu­sive coach did an abrupt about-face, declaring his love for her and suggesting a liaison "off site." 
"Interesting term -'off site,"' said the lawyer, Kathleen Bogas. "Not par­ticularly romantic. One would expect, 'Let's have dinner.' 'Let's have lunch.' 'Let's have a drink togeth­er.' But 'Let's go off site'?" 
The defense also argued that extensive testimony about Marbury's admitted tryst with an MSG intern ­meant to demonstrate an environment of harass­ment -really was a side show. 
IN BRIEF 

U1ppires refuse. to oppose
Wmters' suspensiOn 
NEW YORK -The union for baseball umpires will not contest the season-ending suspension given to Mike Winters for using a profanity aimed at San Diego's Milton Bradley last weekend. 
The World Umpires Association issued a contrite statement Thursday, and union spokesman Lamell McMorris said the WUA would not challenge the penalty handed down by Major League Baseball a day earlier. 
"I've spoken with Mike Winters, and he sincerely regrets what hap­pened on the field that day," McMorris said. "Sometimes, regrettable situations just come out of nowhere and spiral out of control, and everyone involved later wishes that the entire thing can be undone and everyone can go back to the beginning and start over." 
Colts' first-round pJck from 
OSU struggles with offense 
INDIANAPOLIS  - Anthony  
Gonzalez  considers  himself  a  
quick study.  

But even he was confused by the Indianapolis offense. Three weeks ago, Gonzalez, the Colts' first­round draft pick, acknowledged he was still struggling to pick up Peyton Manning's repertoire of audibles and hand signals. 
Now that he's figured that out, Gonzalez is starting to make plays. 
"I think when you come into a situation where the quarterback is a veteran quarterback and he's been with veteran receivers, there's certainly a level of trust he has with them," Gonzalez said. "You've got to develop that and that's part of the situation here." 
Gonzalez is the next in a long line of Colts draft picks who have been brought along slowly. 
Brazil's Marta scores 2 goals 
in win versus U.S. 
HANGZHOU, China -The way Brazil and sensational striker Marta played, it didn't matter who was in goal for the United States. 
Marta scored two goals and the Brazilians put on a dazzling display of soccer Thursday, outhustling the Americans at nearly every turn to cruise to a 4-0 victory in the Women's World Cup semifinals. 
The Brazilians will play in their first final Sunday against defending champion Germany. 
"If you asked me how I do that, I can't explain," Marta said, even after watching TV replays of her goals. "Things happen very quickly during the match, and afterward I start thinking: 'How do I do that?"' 

That's what American goalie Hope Solo was asking. Angry she was replaced for the critical game in favor of veteran Briana Scurry, Solo lashed out at U.S. coach Greg Ryan. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 28, 2007 
potential title contenders, the to eliminate those mistakes Sunday, so this week at practice the ymtr with a 27-0 loss to Lyons lloward Dueks face Farley's Sunday and come out with a win we focused on making sure we earlier this week. The Chieks (0­
Weasels 

Finest on Sunday at 1 p.m. in a light f(Jr seeond place in the Blue
continued from page 24 

Lea!,'Ue. 
Both teams are eoming off strong showings, and both feel their opposition oil" balancn, but that they ean be highly competi­
liJr thn most part,  tive  in  the  
they are sticking to what tlwy do best. On defense, the Weasels will be looking to sopho­more linnbacknr  "! think we are going to win it all again. "  upcoming game. Not only is Farley going to have to deal with a rejuvenated defense, but they will also have to  
Cynthia Curley and frnshman lineman Mary  Tina Martinek Pasquerllla West captain  face off against Bishop's fast-paced oll"ense.  
Forr to stop the Pangborn attack.  The defense  Farley has  
Thn defending  proved to be up  

champions have high expecta­to the ehallenge so far this sea­tions for thn rest of the season. son. The Finest have yet to allow "I think we are going to win it a touehdown this season. 
all again." Martinek said. "We are But the Farley offense is still a as good if not better than we work in progress. They have only were in the last two years. We made it to the end zone onee so havn rnally good chances." Jar this year. 
Pangborn is hoping to play the spoiler, as they enter the gamH Pasquerilla East vs. Cavanaugh with monumtum on thHir sides. Pasquerilla East and The Phoxes are coming oil' of a Cavanaugh look to get their sea­1 (,.() win ovnr Lyons. The team sons on track after slow starts has a 2-1 reeord. with iL<> one loss against each other Sunday after­coming to Welsh Family. noon. 
Sophomore quarterback (~abby The Pyros come into the game Tate hopes to carry over from her at (J-1-2, but P.E. junior captain performance against Lyons last Megan Becker is hoping that star week. Tatn and sophomore cap­players -co-captain and senior tain Mnghan Besdwr connected wide receiver Caroline Nally and 
for two touchdowns on the day, sophomore wide receiver Tara and hope to lind the same holes Pillai -will continue to con­in the Weasels' delimse. 
tribute to the PE offense. 
Pangborn's defense has also "Our defense is pretty strongstopped up as of late. The Phoxes and our offense is improving,"hope that their shutout of Lyon's Beeker said. "We just need more 
is a sign of good things to eome consistency. It's been one or two the rnst of the season. plays in every game that have Farley vs. Howard really hurt us." In a rnatchup between two Becker said the team is looking 
over Cavanaugh. will be able to move the ball like 2-1) are still seeking their first 
The Chaos (1-2) hope to contin­we did during our lirst game," win of the season. ue their winning ways after beat­senior captain Katie Mackin said. Despite their rncord, Lewis is ing McGlinn to pick up their first Lyons will need Connell and capable of taking tlw ball to the victory of the season in their last Lundy to step up as well as their house. Sophomore quartnrback game. defense in order to pick up a win Catherine Guarnieri rallied her 
"This season has been rough so Suday. team in the sec­far," senior captain Tarah Brown Welsh Family, ond half of their said. "But we're coming oll" a win led by a number game against
"Our defense is last week and things are corning of returning solid as always and Welsh Family for together for us in practice." starters, hopes to two late touch­
we've been working 
Brown is confident in her team out duel the young downs. Lewis as they head into the game this duo by countering on picking up our scored 13 point.<> weekend. with a seasoned, momentum on but eould not 
"Our defense is solid as always veteran defense eatch up to the
offense."
and we've been working on pick­along with a Whirlwinds. ing up our momentum on strong offense The Babes are offense." she said. behind junior Tarah Brown led by quarter­
quarterback .lenni McGlinn captain back Melissa Lyons vs. Welsh Family Gargula. Gargula Meagher and 
Playoff contender Lyons will has led Welsh's receiver Tara take on the undefeatnd Welsh offense to 53 points in their lirst McCarron, both juniors. Breen­Family Whirlwinds Sunday at 4 two games. Phillips' freshman elass is espe­
p.m. "We want to build upon all the cially athletic and should pose a 
After a devastating setback at good things we have been doing great threat once they perfect the hands of Pangborn last in the past weeks. We expect to thnir ability to work together. Sunday, Lyons' inexperienced but keep improving and to keep The Babes have the potential to talented backfield -with fresh­focusing on our goals," senior make plenty of big plays on man running back Neva Lundy captain Kelly Bushelle said. offense, but they have played and sophomore This mentality inconsistently. Dropped passes quarterback seems to have have often stymiHd good drives, Claire Connell -"We want to build been taken to but Meagher hopns the team can hopes to turn heart by her put some points on the board
upon all the good 
their team team who has not against Lewis. 
things we have been
around and lead shown any signs "It will be a tight rnateh it in an upset over doing in the past of weakness this because Lewis has a lot of talent," the Whirlwinds. season. Meagher said. "But I think we
weeks." 
Lundy and "I think the will pull out the win." Connell combined strength of our for 20 points in team is how well
Kelly Bushelle their first game, Welsh Family captain we work togeth­against Badin. er," Rushelle said. Contact Jared Jedick at But things did not jjedick@nd.edu, Peter Reisenaur go so well against the top-notch Breen-Philips vs. Lewis at preisena@nd.edu, Mike Pangborn defense. The Lions Breen-Philips and Lewis are Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu, offense was kept out of the pay looking for a turnaround to sal­Griffin Dassani at dirt in a 16-0 defeat. vage the rest of their seasons gdassan@nd.edu and "We had a bit of a problem Sunday at 3 p.m. Meghan McMahon at fmding a rhythm on offense last The Babes dropped to 1-3 on mmcmaho2@nd.edu 
MLB 

Mets squander NL East lead in loss to Cardinals 
thing good to happen."  right now is working hard for a  
No major league team has  win."  
failed to finish first after having  Skip Sehumaknr's HBI single  
at least a seven-game lead with  gave St. Louis a 1-0 lead in the  
17 to play. But  l'irst  and  the  
with  three  Cardinals  
games remain­ing in the regu­ ''There's two choices:  pushed aeross two more runs  
lar season  - a  Roll over and start  in the third on a  
weekend so ries at horne against Florida -the  making plans for the off-season, or battle  double by Albert Pujols and a sin­gin by Hyan  
Mets might fail  like hell and win this  Ludwiek.  
to win the divi­sion or qualify  thing."  Martinez (3-1) allowed seven  
as the wild eard.  hits  in  seven  
Philadelphia, which beat  David Wright Mets third baseman  innings, struck out night and  
Atlanta 6-4  on  walked  one.  lie  
Thursday, closes  threw a  season­ 
the  season with  high 105 pitches  
three games at horne against  in his !'irst loss in five starts  
Washington. San Diego, which  since corning back from shoul­ 
beat Milwaukee  9-5  in  the  der surgery last October.  
opener of a  four-game series  While Martinez turned in  a  
Thursday,  leads  the  Mets.  solid effort, the Mnts offense  
Phillies and Colorado Hockies  was nonexistent against Pineiro  
by one game in the wild card.  (6-4), making his first eareer  
"There's two choices: Holl  appearance against New York.  
Mets first baseman Carlos Delgado walks b ack t o the d ugo over and start making vacationut after striking out in the seventh  "He was outstanding tonight,"  
Inning of New York's 3-0 loss to St. Louis T hursday.  plans for the offseason, or bat­ Handolph said. "(Pineiro) shut  
tle like hell and win this thing,"  us down and Pedro kept us in  
Associated Press  "We're  tied  now,  so  now  The Mets (87 -72) were ahead  Mets third baseman David Wright said. "We still feel like  the ballgame but obviously it wasn't good enough."  
we've got three games to get it  by seven games on  Sept. 12  this is our division."  Pineiro struck out six and  
NEW YOHK -The New York  done,"  manager  Willie  with 17 remaining but have lost  The latest loss was inf1icted  walked  one  in  a  season-high  
Mets' lead in the NL East is  Handolph said. "That's the way  10 of 14 overall and  seven  by the Cardinals, who beat the  eight innings.  
gone. They might not even  be  baseball goes and we  kind of  straight at horne,  a  monumen­ Mets  in  Game  7  of the  NL  Wright doubled in the first to  
in the playoffs at all if they  made  our  own  bed here  so  tal tailspin for  a  team that  championship series last year.  extend his hitting streak to 14  
can't snap out of their near his­ we've got to fight through this."  counted on  being in the play­ St. Louis went 12-17 down the  games, and Carlos Delgado and  
toric funk.  Not  even  Pedro  Martinez  offs.  stretch last year, squeaked into  Shawn Green singled in the  
Tht~  spiraling Mets managed  could  save  New York, whieh  "I think we're due to have  the playoffs and went on  to  fifth, but that was it for New  
just three hits ofT Joel Pineiro  had led the division alone every  something special happen to us  beat the Detroit Tigers in the  York.  
and Jason lsringhausnn in a 3­ day since May 16. Handolph  because in the time I've been  World Series.  "It almost felt like a pennant  
0 loss to the St. Louis Cardinals  quickly tried to lift the players'  here I don't think we've had a  "I think there's some similari­ game out there even though  
on  Thursday  night  that  spirits after the game, deliver­ little stretch playing games like  ties but it's hard to go beyond  we're not in it," Pineiro said.  
dropped them into a first-place  ing what he called a  positive  that and kind of getting away  there,"  Cardinals  manager  lsringhausen worked  a  per­ 
tie with Philadelphia in the  message during a  brief team  from  us  that easy," Martinez  Tony La Hussa said. "I know  feet ninth to earn his 31st save  
division.  meeting.  said. "So I'm expecting some­ they're a  very good team that  and complete the three-hitter.  

.----------~--------~~~----~---------­
Friday, September 28, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS 
Keough 
continued from page 24 
Fisher vs. Sorin 
Fisher looks to get its season started on a positive note Sunday when it faces Sorin at 1 
p.m. at Riehle Field. 
The Green Wave had a bye last Sunday and will be seeing their first game action of the season. They look to improve on a 2006 campaign that included an undefeated regular season but a disappointing first round playoff loss. This year, there is only one goal on their minds. 
"We're looking to wi~ every 
downs," Huth said. "And we want to force more three-and­outs." 
Senior defensive end Matt Templemire hopes to draw plen­ty of double teams and wreak havoc in the Dillon backfield. Sophomore defensive tackle Bob Huguelet had a key sack in last week's victory and looks to con­tribute this week as well. 
Offensively, junior quarterback Brian Salvi will lead Stanford's pro-set offense. He will again look to connect with freshman wide out Kevin Hitt. 
"He has great hands and plays hard on every down," Huth said of Ritt. 
In addition, 
Huth said the 
offensive line had 
improved, which 

game, sopho­"We're looking to could lead to big more captain holes for the sen­
win every game. 
Bill Whitaker ior running back said. "Including Tregg Duerson. the playoff.<;." Bill Whitaker Meanwhile, this 
The driving Fisher captain will be Dillon's force behind first game of the Fisher's march season. After fin­to the stadium is ishing 1-3 last its experienced season, the Big linebacker corps -including Red will look to get off on the Whitaker, senior Pat Mcinerney, right foot. The team is very and senior Tom Bufalino, who experienced, with the majority of Whitaker called "the inspira­the team returning from last tional leader of the team." year, including junior captain 
The linebackers lead a defense Alex Duffy. Look for the under­that is hoping to make some big sized Big Red to plays this weekend. spread the ball 
"We've got to try and force around and get 
some turnovers," Whitaker said. their faster play­"I'd say we Burns will 'That helped us a lot last year." ers out in space. pretty much beat anchor the The hard-nosed defense will "We are expect­offensive and
ourselves. " 
be complemented by a strong ing a very tough defensive lines, passing game led by senior game from both of which quarterback Kevin Rabil. Dillon," Huth said. Kyle Kownacki will be at a size "We've got a strong passing "Our game last disadvantage
Carroll captain
game," Whitaker said. "We've year with those got some good receivers." guys went down 
Fisher used its first-week bye to the last minute to add extra practices during and the team expects the exact this week to prepare for Sorin. kind of tough match that it was The Green Wave held an last year." intrasquad scrimmage while the rest of the teams played their St. Edward's vs. Carroll first games. If last week's 12-7 win over 
Whitaker also believes emotion Sorin was big for St. Ed's, will be key in getting a win this Sunday's 2 p.m. game against week. Carroll will be a chance to do 
"We've got to play with a pas­something even bigger. sion," he said. Before their season opening 
Fisher faces a Sorin team hun­win against the Otters, St. Ed's gry to avenge its opening-game hadn't won a game in three loss to St. Ed's. years. Senior captain Ge Wang, a 
"We just weren't mentally pre­fullback and middle linebacker, pared [last week]," Otters senior said the win was a great way to captain Ryan Bove said. "We got start the season. hurt by penalties and "It felt really good," Wang said. turnovers." "It was great that our fans were 
To better ready his team for there, and after the game they 
Fisher.  Bove  rushed the field. I  
cranked up the  haven't  experi­ 
heat in prac­ enced a win since  
tices this week, adding more contact and game­ "We just weren't mentally prepared [last week.]"  high school, so it felt great." Wang added that a lot of the credit  
adion drills.  for  the  first win  
On defense, the Otters are  Ryan Bove Sorin captain  goes to first-year coach Cameron  

led by senior linebacker C h r i s Schwarber and senior safety Mark Dummett. 
On the other side of the ball. Sorin looks to build on a rushing attack led by the tandem of Hove and sophomore Robert Gallic that was very effective against St. Ed's. 
"We need to stick to the run­ning game," Bove said. "As long as we stay dose and stop making mental mistakes, the rest will take care of itself." 
Stanford vs. Dillon 
After an 8-0 win over O'Neill last week, Stanford will look to stay hot this week against Dillon at 1 p.m. 
The Grillins' defense dominat­ed the Angry Mob last week, but captain Hob Iluth sees some room for improvement, 
"We want to do a better job finishing on third and fourth Hogue and a host of 
talented under­

classmen, including freshman quarterback Matt Abeling and freshman wide receiver Dan Crisman. 
On defensive, Vermin captain Kyle Kownacki said he did a lit­tle scouting and has a plan for the two freshmen. 
"I actually got to see part of the [St. Ed's-Sorin] game last weekend," he said, "and I noticed they have a pretty good freshman quarterback over there. Defensively were going to try to neutralize him." 
While St. Ed's looks to continue it's new winning ways, Carroll will try to rebound from a diffi­cult loss to Zahm in the season opener. The Zahmbies held the Vermin offense to only 71 yards, a fact that Carroll's captain, Kownacki, said was as much caused by first-game jitters as it was by Zahm's defense. 
"I'd say we pretty much beat ourselves," Kownacki said. "Our offense just dido't execute well and on defense we couldn't make plays." 
With the Zahm game in mind, Kownacki thinks Carroll will look to come out with a more balanced offensive game plan, using the running game to estab­lish a passing attack. Such an attack will likely be focused on senior wide receiver Paul Tassinari, known to Wang and the men of St. Ed's as "Tall Paul from Carroll Hall." 
"We'll definitely be preparing for him," Wang said·. "He's pretty well recognized in Interhall as one of the better players." 
Morrissey vs. Keenan 
Something has to give in Sunday's 2 p.m. showdown between Keenan and Morrissey after both teams looked domi­nant in season-opening shutout victories. 
The Knights handled Keough easily in a 12-0 win last Sunday, and the defense that caused the Kangaroos fits will hope to do the same to the Manorites. 
"Our big strength is our defense, and it always has been," sophomore captain Pat Burns said. "This year, our offense is starting to come around. There was no point in that first game that we felt wor­ried, so we're feeling pretty good coming in." 
against the 
Manorites. 

"Both of their lines are good and big, but we think we're a little quicker," Burns said. "Hopefully we can use that to our advantage." 
Freshman defensive lineman Bart Dear and senior linebacker Joe Pappas will try to slow down Morrissey's dangerous offensive attack, and the Knights' offense must be efficient to find a hole in the Manorite defense -a defense, Morrissey captain Nick Bencomo said, that responded to the question marks that sur­rounded it prior to last week's 20-0 thrashing of Alumni. 
"We had a lot of guys in new spots, but on the whole, the defense played pretty well," said Bencomo, a senior running back. "There's always room for improvement, but our depth at each position is looking like it'll be a strength." 
Sophomore Ryan Lash and freshman Ryan McSweeney have looked good at corner for the defending champions, Bencomo said, and junior receivers Dan Reimer and Warren Scott should continue to make plays for quar­terback Joe McBrayer, a fellow junior. 
And just in case the Manorites needed any added motivation for the game, they can look back to last year, when the Knights handed them a 12-6 regular sea­son loss -the only blemish on Morrissey's otherwise perfect season. 
"It might not be as big a deal as people think because we're a different team and we're more focused on [this game]," Bencomo said. "But yeah, it's going to be in our heads, that's for sure." 
Contact Andy Renner at arenner@nd.edu, Eugenia Alfonzo at ealfonzo@nd.edu, Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu, Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu, Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu and Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
page 17 

NO VOLLEYBALL 
Stasiuk breaks records despite new position 
Toe injury forces captain to play libero 

HY PHAM!The Observer Senior outside hitter and libero Adrianna Stasiuk goes for a block during Notre Dame's 3-0 win over Bowling Green Aug. 26, 2006. 
West Virginia Sunday. She
By ELLYN MICHAlAK 
went into the match in sixth 
Sports Writer 
place on the Notre Dame's all­time dig list. One match and 
As the Irish went 1-1 last 17 digs later, Stasiuk moved weekend, senior captain up to fourth. Adrianna Stasiuk continued to Thanks to Phillips' career break Notre Dame records high 23 kills and Tauritis' despite an injury that pre­effective combination of vented her from starting in defense skill and offensive 
her  normal  assistance,-the  
outside hitter  Irish defeated  
position.  West Virginia  
The Irish attempted to make adjust­ments by  "Every team in the Big East is improving a lot."  3-1. "Despite the win, I still don't feel that we  
starting  played  up  to  
Stasiuk in the libero position,  Debbie Brown Irish coach  our full poten­tial against  

but ultimately lost last Saturday's game to Pittsburgh 3-1 (33-31, 32-30, 23-30, 42-40). 
"I think a lot of things went wrong on Saturday. We were playing with Adrianna in a different position because of her badly injured toe, so we had a completely different lineup in the game," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. 
West Virginia," Brown said. "I think we learned a lot 

from this past weekend and 
we put into practice a lot of 
really good things. We've had 
some great practices this 
week that have built some ­
good habits. I feel we are 
ready for the weekend." This weekend the Irish (5-7, 
1-1) will host two more con­
"We weren't as "We weren't as con­
consistent as sistent as we needed we needed to 
to be, and we kept
be, and we 
kept getting getting leads but 
leads but failed failed to close out to close out on 
close games. " 
games." 
Despite the injured toe, Debbie Brown Stasiuk posted Irish coach 14 kills. Freshman mid­
ference foes ­Seton Hall (9­6, 0-2) and Villanova (9-6, 1-1). 
Last season, the Irish defeated Seton Hall 3-0 and Villanova, 3-1. 
"Every team in the Big East is improving a lot. Villanova had big leads 

dle blocker Kellie Sciacca and sophomore outside and oppo­site hitter Serinity Phillips matched Stasiuk's kill total, and senior setter Ashley Tauritis recorded 45 assists to keep the Irish in the game. 
Stasiuk continued to improve her records upon entering the match against 
on St. John's, who are a tnp­20 team. We have our ~ eut out for us this weekend,·· Brown said. 
The Irish will face Seton Hall Saturday and Villanova Sunday-both at 2 p.m. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 28, 2007 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles head to non-conference llleet 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Writer 
A fourth-plaee finish at last Saturday's MIAA Jamboree may have put Saint Mary's in position to accomplish its goal of making this season the best in sehool history, but what it didn't do was give the Belles a week on·. 
Not that they were counting on one. 
"It was right back to business this week," eoaeh Jaekie Bautnrs said. "I don't feel like the sueeess has shocked any­body. For the most part, it's just lirnd everybody up to continue running well." 
That's always the goal, after all, even for Saturday's Sean f<:arl Lakefront Invitational in Chieago -whieh won't affect the eonforencf~ standings. But Baul.ers is hardly expncting a letdown al'ter last week's nne showing. 
"Obviously the conference nwels arn a little more valu­able, but we take each meet similarly," Bauters said. "Every weekend we can learn how each girl can race to lwr potm1­ti<tl. and as we work toward getting better, we'll start put­ting all the pieces together." 
There's no doubt that the piv­otal piece of the puzzle is sen­ior captain Megan Gray. The all-conference returnee led the Belles again last weekend by taking sixth overall. What will make or break the Belles' sea­son, though, is the progression of a young supporting east. 
Bauters said freshman Catie Salyer, who is still recovering from a case of mononucleosis this summer, has begun to assert herself. She was named last weekend's "warrior of the race," a Belles tradition after every meet, for her No. 25 fin­ish in the Jamboree. 
Sophomore Emily Graf also battled illness this summer and "has looked a million times bet­ter in practice over the past two weeks," Bauters said. 
Junior co-captain Caitlin Brodmerkel has been vital in helping along some of the new­comers, Bauters said. Brodmerkel's times are drop­ping, too -she finished in the Belles' top-sevnn for the first time in her career last Saturday. Through hnr hard work in practice, Bauters said, Brodmerkel leads by example. 
"Much of her success is due to her dedication to the sum­mer training program and com­ing back ready to go," Bauters said. "I believe we'll continue to see great things from her this season." 
As for Saturday's meet, Saint Mary's expects to be competi­tive in the middle of the pack. Last year, the Belles placed 17th among the 33 teams, and Gray paced the effort with her 37th-place finish. Though the sheer number of runners in this race presents the challenge of a crowded course, Bauters remains confident her team will have no trouble dealing with the conditions. 
"It should be a run, relaxing weekend without the added pressure lof MIAA competi­tion!," Bauters said. "It's a good chance for the girls to get on a shorter course, see their times come down, and build a little more confidence moving toward !conference] champi­onships." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

Depleted squad looks to stay hot 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's plays its third MIAA match Saturday against Olivet, a team the Belles defeated 3-2 last season. 
Saint Mary's has played well in its first two conference matchups, beating Kalamazoo in the last 10 minutes of play Saturday, and tying traditional foe Albion 1-1 Tuesday after two overtimes. Without junior forward Lauren Jlinton and sophomore forward Micki Hedinger, coach Caryn MacKenzie has had to make some adjustments. 
Also, the Belles will be with­out senior defenseman Justine Higgins Saturday. Higgins received two yellow cards in Tuesday's match against Albion and received an auto­matic one-game suspension. 
Tuesday's play against Albion was "sluggish" in a con­stantly moving game, Mackenzie said. The Belles have also been struggling to convert in front of the goal, as leading scorer Hinton has been sidelined because of an injury. 

But the Belles have found other players who ean seore, including sophomore defensn­man Bridget Honayne and Higgins -both of whom scored last Saturday -and sophomore midfielder Katie Wehrli. 
The Belles are No. 2 in the MIM, and the Comets are No. 
9. The two teams may have the same number of overall wins. but Olivet has lost their two eonfnrence games to Albion and Kalamazoo ­teams Saint Mary's has tied or defmtted. 
If the Bnlles can stay !lexible and adapt with their person­nel, their positive strnak could continue beyond Saturday's match. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveseiO1@saintmarys.edu 

MLB 
Cubs 'magic number' falls to 2 despite loss 
-
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Swept by lowly Florida. tho Chicago Cubs shambled out of town Thursday with this consolation: If they make tlw playoffs. they won't have to face the Marlins again. 
Tlw problPm is Chkago may not mako tho playoff:-;. 
Struggling to avert anotlwr Cubs eollapsP, tlw NL Central leaders stranded I 0 runrwrs and lost to tlw last-place Marlins for thP third game in a 
row. 6-4.  
"It.  was  a  waste of a  plane  
l'light."  Cubs  closnr  Hyan  
I>nmpstnr said.  

"You can look in tlwir dugout, and it's just likP panic mode," said I.-lorida's Cody Hoss, who drovn in a run with a pinch-hit doubh~. "Tiwy'rn paring up and down. WP would lw in the same boat if thn situation wnrn nwersnd." 
Chicago rmnairwd two gamns 


ahead of second-place Milwaukee, which lost 9-5 to San Diego. 
"We're still in the driver's snat," manager Lou Piniella said. "We've just got to start winning some games." 
The Cubs' magic number for clinching the division fell to two. Thny elosn tJw regular snason with a thrne-gamn snries at Cincinnati beginning Friday. with Carlos Zambrano starting for Chicago. 
"We'vt~ got the right guy on the mound," Dempster said. "Believe it or not, as bad as this was, we're still confident in ourselves." 
Against Florida, not so mueh. Tlw Marlins beat the Cubs for tlw 1Oth straight game over the past two seasons -the longest active streak between major league teams. 
"Thesn guys have our num­ber," Chicago first baseman I>errnk Lee said. "They came 
out and flat-out beat us. We 
didn't envision a sweep." 
Following Wednesday's game, Cubs second baseman Mark DeHosa acknowledged his team might be pressing. Piniella, mindful that the franchise has a history of folding, invited comedian and Cubs superfan Bill Murray to hang out behind the batting cage before Thursday's game. 
It didn't help. But the Cubs denied team tradition is work­ing against them. 
"We're not worried about his­tory," Lee said. "I understand the history, but we weren't here. I promise, when we're in between the lines, we're not thinking about the history of the Cubs." 
Piniella, who contends there's no Cubs curse, blamed the lat­est loss on squandered oppor­tunities. In the series, Chicago went 3-for-20 with runners in scoring position. 
"I didn't think we were tight," Piniella said. "A couple of play­ers are a little out of the norm of the entire season. Maybe they're tired. Other than that, I thought we played nice and loose." 
Meanwhile, Florida played like the 2003 Marlins, who overtook the Cubs to win the NL championship series en route to a World Series title. 
And even when the Marlins tried to help the Cubs. it wasn't enough. 
Florida led 5-l before a throwing error by third base­man Miguel Cabrera in the sixth inning let Chicago baek in the game. With the Marlins leading by a run, Florida reliev­er Henyel Pinto came on to walk consecutive batters, load­ing the bases in the seventh, but .Jacque Jones struck out to end the inning. 
For the third straight game, Chieago failed to score on the Florida bullpen. Hyan Theriot hit into a double play against Lee Gardner to end the eighth, and closer Kevin Gregg needed only eight pitches in a perfect ninth for his 31st save in 35 chances. 
The appearance was the first in a week for Gregg, who has been nursing a sore forearm. 
Bad luck was also part of thn Cubs' trouble: Cabrera's oppo­site-l'ield liner landed on the right-field foul line for an HBI double in the firth to put Florida ahead 5-1. 
Hanley Hamirez hit his 29th homer for Florida while Jeremy Hermida had two hits and fin­ished the series 7 -for-12. , Steve Traehsel ( 1-3), making his first start in two weeks, lasted only 4 1-3 innings and allowed live runs. Kerry Wood came on to piteh out of a bases­loaded, no-outs jam in the sixth to keep the Cubs within a run. 
Seott Olsen (10-15) gave up a run in the first, then shut down Chicago until Cabrera's error in the sixth. Olsen gave up four runs, two earned, in 5 1-3 innings and won for the first time since Aug. 5.The final home game for attendance­challenged Florida drew 24,809 fans. Most cheered for the Cubs. 
"When you've got a lot of their fans in your home ball­park," Marlins reliever Justin Miller said, "you want to go out and shut them up." 


-~-----~­

Friday, September 28, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Triangular tourney on tap for St. Mary's 
BySAMANTHALEONARD 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will host a tri­angular tournament Saturday with Bethel College and con­ference rival Tri-State. 
After getting swept by Calvin on Tuesday, the Belles have been working hard before taking on both the Pilots and the Thunder. 
In order to compete against the two squads, then Belles will need to put the Calvin match in the past, Belles coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. 
"From this point forward, our focus has got to be that Ithis I next match ... is our most important match and play like we mean it -with intensity. No looking for­ward and no looking back," Schroeder-Biek said. 
The Tri-State match will be a little more important to the Belles, since the Thunder are confnrenee competitors and the Pilots are not. 
"Tri-State is the only con­ference opponent that we haven't seen yet this year," Schroeder-Sink said. "We have high goals to aecomplish -one of whieh is to be a first-round host for our tour­nament.
n 

For Saint Mary's to host a first-round march, it must 

finish fourth or higher in the league. Tri-State currently holds the No. 4 spot at 4-2, and the Belles are in fifth at 3-4. 
"We will be again working on tightening up our own game," Schroeder-Biek said. "We will have to be on our toes against both of these teams.... We will be making adjustments in parts of our defense. Primarily quickening it up and working on our players confidently and aggressively playing their positions." 
Schroeder-Biek said she has been studying the compe­tition, which are typically strong teams. 
"Tri-State is traditionally very strong defensively," Schroeder-Biek said. "And this year, I expect Tri-State's offense to be even more pow­erful. One of their previously injured attackers is back on the roster and they added a strong junior college transfer. It should be a good match." 
Bethel is also a dominant team, and the Belles will not take the non-conference match lightly. Schroeder-Sick said. 
The Belles start the meet against the Thunder at 11 a.m. 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleonaO I @saintmarys.edu 
N D CROSS COUNTRY 
Runners take to home turf 
Irish to face top-notch competition in Notre Dame Invitational 
By CHRIS DOYEN 
Sports Writer 
In Notre Dame's first two meets, both the men and women placed first in team competition. 
After one weekend off, the Irish squads will look to con­tinue their success at the Notre Dame Invitational today. 
At the National Catholic Championship on Sept. 14, the newcomers stole the show. Freshman Marissa Treece cap­tured the women's title, while freshman Dan Jackson led the Irish with a second place over­all finish. The Irish will need another strong all-around per­formance if they want to pro­tect their home turf. 
The Notre Dame Invitational will host eight women's and six men's teams currently ranked 
MLB 
Yankees still in hunt for AL East 
Reliever Chamberlain pitches in consecutive games for first time 
Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG -A day after clinching a playoff berth, the Yankees began preparing reliever Joba Chamberlain for a heavy postseason workload. 
The 22-year-old right-hander pitched on consecutive days for the first time Thursday night, helping fellow rookie Phil Hughes beat the Tampa Bay Devil Rays 3­1 to keep alive New York's slim hopes in the AL East. 
Chamberlain struck out B.J. Upton to escape a jam with run­ners at first and second in the eighth inning. The Yankees have brought him along slowly, but Joba Rules have been eased dur­ing the past week, putting him in position where he can be used relatively freely in the postsea­son. 
"He's always said that he eould do it, and tonight was a great opportunity after clinching to give him a chance," Yankees pitching coach Hun Guidry said. "I don't think he was as sharp as he nor­mally has been, but I think he did a good job. He got into trouble, he got out of trouble. That's the mark of a good pitcher." 
Chamberlain has allowed just one earned run in 23 2/3 innings, a 0.38 ERA, since joining the Yankees in early August and has struck out 34. l-Ie said he felt good after the 20-pitch outing in which he allowed a single and also hit a batter. 
"It's kind of interesting to see how your body reacts, and it was good. It's bPnn good all year," the 22-year-old right-hander said. "It came back great. My body felt good, so it was another test that. hopefully, I passed." 
Manager Joe Torre also liked what he saw. 
"He seemed fine. The first thing we checked was .Joe Kerrigan in tho bullpen to make sure that he had an easy tii11P doing what he was doing, and there were no issues," Torre said, adding that he'd like to bring Chamberlain in during the middle of an inning in his next outing, probably Sunday. 
in the USTFCCCA Div. I poll, including the Irish men (No. 
13) and women (No. 27). Other nationally-ranked men's and women's teams include Michigan (No. 26 men/No. 2 women). Providence (No. ll/No.9), Florida State (No. 24/No. 12), and North Carolina State (No. 10/No. 15). 
Other ranked teams include Illinois (No. 7) Baylor (No. 22), and Boston College (No. 26) on the women's side, and Brigham Young University (No. 
20) on the men's side. 
Friday's Invitational will be the first time this season that the Irish have faced a ranked opponent. The time off, howev­er, should prepare the squads for the challenges they will face. 
The Notre Dame Invitational was first held in 1956, and since then, the Irish men have 
Jose Veras pitched the ninth, completing a six-hitter for his second career save. 
New York, which rested Alex Rodriguez, Derek Jeter and four other regulars, closed within two games of first-place Boston with three games to play. The Yankees finish the regular season with a weekend series at Baltimore before opening the playoffs, likely at Cleveland. 
"There's a mathematical chan.ce," center fielder Johnny Damon said of the division race. "There's stuff we can't control. All we can control is what we do. ... We just need to try and fmish up the best we can." 
llughes (5-3) walked two and struck out five. He yielded Carlos Pena's 44th homer in the fourth, as well as singles to Delmon Young, Josh Wilson and Akinori Iwamura. 
Tampa Bay wasted a good per­
-

Yankees outfielder Johnny Damon (18) steals second in York's 3-1 win Thursday. 
won it 15 times, with their last title coming in 2003. The women's squad began compet­ing in 1987, and since then they have won six times. with their last victory coming in 2003. 
The Invitational is split into a Blue Division and a Gold Division. The Irish and most of the top-tier competition will compete in the Blue Division. The Gold Division includes schools from Div. I, II, and III. 
North Carolina State won the men's Blue Division last year, and Michigan took first on the women's side. Both teams will be back this year to defend their titles. 
-

The men's teams will race five miles, while the women will race five kilometers. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
formance by Scott Kazmir, who allowed one run and three hits in six innings. The 23-year-old left­bander fanned 10 to pass Johan Santana for the major league strikeouts lead with 239. 
Kazmir limited the Yankees to Bronson Sardinha's third-inning, infield single -the rookie's first major league hit -until another rookie, Alberto Gonzalez, lined a single to left field with one out in the sixth. Johnny Damon fol­lowed with a RBI double that made it 1-1. Damon went 10-for­15 in the series and raised his average to .269 -his highest since late May. 
"I tried to·get the strikeouts out of my head," Kazmir said. "I just wanted to go out and attack the strike zone and get as deep as l could into the ball game. With the fans behind you like they were, it just makes it all the much more special." 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, September 28, 2007 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Golfers seek third 
consecutive victory 
By LORENZO REYES 
Sporrs Writer 
Notre Damn's fall campaign couldn't haVf~ gotten ofT to a lwttnr start. 
Tlw Irish received the dis­tindion of Golfweek maga­zinn's women's team of the· wonk to add onto tlwir impres­sive back-to­hack season-
Shooting from the second spot will be freshman So-llyun Park. who won her second col­legiatn tournament at Napa Hiver with a three-under-par 213 (70-71-72). In her first evnnt, Park finished second in the field, behind only Maunu. 
Sophomore Annie Brophy will play from the No. 3 hole af'ter her 22(> (77-73-76) helped her place No. 21 at the 
opening vkto­Cardinal Cup.
"/ told them in our 
r i ~~ s a t I. hn Fellow sopho­
team meeting that the
Cougar Classic more Kristin and Napa key to another win is Wetzel will shoot Hiver Grill fourth and will
lo stay in the present 
Cardinal Cup. try to continue
and have a good
Thn Irish her consistent will try to stay week's practice and I play, af'tPr she pnrfect at think we were tied for 13th at Michigan's the Cardinal
able to do that."
Wolvnrine Cup. Invitational in Hounding out Ann Arbor this Susan Holt the group will be weekend. freshman Katie
Irish coach 
If Notn~ Conway, who fin-Damn can ished strong at eonw out with their third the Cardinal Cup, shooting a straight victory, it will be the one-over-par 73. After a final first time in program history round seore of one-over 73, tlw team has started a season she ended the tournament in a th rne-for-th ren. tie for 21st alongside Brophy. 
The unit's early success has For the Irish to continue only rnadn them more conf'i­tlwir success, they must work dnnt, but they are still focused on one of their weaknesses, on the prizn. llolt said. 
"They're good about getting "Our eourse management their foeus haek," coaeh Susan needs some work," Holt said. llolt said. "They know where "We came into the final round tlwy rwnd to be. I told them in of the Cardinal Cup with an our team meeting that the key eight-stroke lead, but we to another win is to stay in the sometimes tend to be overly prnsent and have a good aggressive and let the competi­week's praetiee and I think we tion cn;tch up. We need to keep were able to do that. Now we it simple, and hit fairways." just have to play the golf The Irish are looking to back course because when you do up their previous performanc­that, you give yourself a shot to es with a solid campaign as win." they head to the Wolverine 
Teeing off from the No. 1 InvitationaL spot will be junior Lisa Maunu, "Success breeds confidence," who has had a memorable Holt said. "We're all playing start to her season. A week well, and we're being consis­ago, Golfweek named Maunu tent. The team is really feeding women's player of the week ofl' it. They're just excited to go thanks to her record-breaking over there and play some golf." six-under par 66 at Cougar Classic and her three-way tie Contact Lorenzo Reyes at for sixth at the Cardinal Cup. lreyes@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish set to host Fallon tourney 
All-American Sheeva Parbhu leads young squad in home debut 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 

After a 22-1 showing in last year's Torn Fallon Invitational, a new-look Irish will have to work hard to duplicate those results this weekend at the Eck Tennis Center. 
Coach Bobby Bayliss will fill thn holes in the lineup left by three impact seniors with a group of freshman standouts. 
"We're not sure who's going to fill what spots in both sin­gles and doubles," Bayliss said. "We still need to find out what the team chemistry will be, and learn how to work with the new faces. We need to find this year's team identity." 
But freshmen players can pose a dilemma for coaches. 
"The good news is we have five freshmen who have a lot Bayliss said junior Brett the season. of enthusiasm and a want to Hegelson has the potential to "I am a f'irm belilwcr in work," Bayliss said. "Tiw bad be an AII-Ameriean this year. having a stronger schedule, news is that we have five "I have essentially two No. and t1~sting yourself," Bayliss freshman who are still learn­1 [players! in these two," said. "We want to embrace ing, and we're learning about Bayliss said. "They played the challenges. We will face them." two and three singles last with the tougher teams. We 
The doubles lineup is a year, and did extremely will get a lot of answers this work in progress, and Bayliss well." weekend about what our said the players need to step In the Olympic Fields team will look like for the up for the Irish to have a Invitational, which opened rest of the season." good season. the season for the Irish two Illinois and Ohio State will 
"There is a large laek of weeks ago, ·senior Andrew be among Notre Dame's top experience in our doubles Roth rolled his ankle and is competition this weekend. lineup, especially with poach­not expected to be in the line­Illinois was an NCAA finalist ing and movement," Bayliss up this weekend. last season. said. "We're waiting on results Following the Invitational, 
But the Irish do have some from the orthopedic doctor, to the Irish will travel to the ITA experienced players return­let us know if he needs an All-American Championships ing to this year's squad. All­MRI or what kind of treat­beginning on Oct. 4 in America senior captain ment," Bayliss said. Oklahoma. Sheeva Parbhu returns to this Even with the inexperi­year's squad and should help enced team, Bayliss did not Contact Kate Grabarek at the younger players adjust. ease up on the schedule for kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Coffee at the Como 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, October 2 7:30p.m.-9:30p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council invites gay, lesbian. and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family. their friends, and supporters to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo 
Everyone is welcome and confideohality 1s assured 

CORE COUNCil 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN
STUDENTS 

-
MCAT I OAT I OAT I PCAT 
Save S200!' 
Enroll by September 30, 2007 and save $100 on MCAT, OAT, OAT and PCAT comprehensive courses. Plus, act now and beat the $100 October 1" 2007 price increase! 
Only 3 Days Left to Take Advantage of the Savings! 
Kaplan provides the most realistic practice for the computer-based MCAT. 
Enroll today to take advantage of this limiL••.-Lime offer. 
Higher test scores guaranteed or your money back: 

TEST PREP AND

1-800-KAP-TEST I kaptest.com ADMISSIONS 
"Tes\ll!ltM¥ liftl U11t '"Y~f:rfld tr&demd~s of lhfJif r~:~apechvf:l awnttrs 1Mu~;~t fKll'~ill'llfl MCAT, OAT. OAT, or PCAT C!aSI:IrtK>tll, Cllsttoom +-!:i Online COUtae Of 15, 25·, or 3!$-twr Pnvcne rutonng plOQfllm ~n Septernwr 1 and Sapldll'IM!f 30,2007. Ci.ill!VJI hn r.ombsood Wlftl any nUIC!f o"-tr. rt!blttcl. disr.ounl. or pmmtllion %Condition!\ «ntl m11trichoM apply for r.ornplete guar<~nl61! a!tgibl:!ly n!tQI.Itftfnllnl&. v~lt kap'"-1 ~ The HIQhdt Sr.ore (,1uarantea doee not t~~pply 10 K.a~llan OAT cott!ll.(t$ taken ~t~ld cornplt:'!ed 111 CIIDada 
--------~~~~--~~~~~----------------------------------------~ 
Friday, September 28, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish resume individual play 

Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame travels to Ann Arbor, Mich., for the Wolverine Invitational this weekend. 
The individual tournament features players from Michigan, Marquette, Western Michigan and Purdue. 
Eight Notre Dame players will compete in singles, dou­bles or both. 
In the Maize singles draw, Notre Dame has three seeded players -No. 1 sophomore Cosmina Ciobanu, No. 3 sopho­more Colleen Rielley and No. 4 junior Kelcy Tefft. Ciobanu had an impressive debut season, compiling a 36-5 overall record. 
In the Blue draw, the Irish have two more seeded players -No. 1 Kali Krisik and No. 2 Katie Potts. 
Two Notre Dame doubles teams are also seeded. Tefft and Krisik are No. 1, while 
Reilly and Kristen Rafael are No.3. Rafael will also compete in the Maize singles draw. 
Denise Ellison and Bailey Louderback are also entered in the tournament -Ellison is in the Blue singles draw and the two will play together in the doubles draw. 
No team score will be kept, but individual champions will be crowned in each draw. 
Play begins today at 10 a.m. 
Tired of getting homework? 
Then give some! 


MEN'S GOLF 
Warren Course hosts 2nd Gridiron Classic 
Team finished 2nd to Lamar last season 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Sports Wrirer 
After a two-week break, the Irish will be back in tourna­ment competition Sunday at the second Fighting Irish Gridiron Classic. 
Notre Dame will play host to a 12-team field for the tour­nament, played Sunday through Tuesday at Warren Golf Course. Among the top teams competing will be No. 16 Lamar, Michigan State, Georgetown, Arkansas and Virginia. 
Notre Dame finished second in the inaugural Gridiron Classic last year, 29 shots behind Lamar, which never trailed in the event. The Irish held off Baylor, Florida State, and Vanderbilt in the final round in cold and windy con­ditions to take second in their first home tournament since 2004. 
Graduated senior Cole Isban led the Irish, but several returning Notre Dame players had success in the inaugural event. Junior Josh Sandman placed eleventh with a 12­over-par 222. He was tied by sophomore Carlos Santos­Ocampo, who aced the fourth hole with an 8-iron. 
After a practice round Saturday, the tournament will consist of three rounds played on the par-70, 7,020-yard course designed by Ben Crenshaw and Bill Coore and recently named one of the top-15 college courses in the nation by Golf Digest. 
Notre Dame kicked off its season with two tournaments Sept. 15-16. Despite a tough final round, the Irish placed fourth of 12 teams at the Gopher Invitational -finish­ing behind Lamar, Arkansas, and Wisconsin. Senior Greg Hodgers led the team individ­ually with a seventh-place fin­ish, one shot ahead of sopho­more teammate Doug Fortner. Freshman Connor Alan-Lee had an impressive perform­ance in his collegiate debut, finishing No. 26. 
Sandman, an all-Big East 
-

selection last season, got off to a rocky start, shooting 18­over to tie for 39th. Senior Eddie Peckels rounded out the Irish team in a tie for No. 37. 
While half the Irish team teed off in Minnesota, the rest was competing at the Rutgers Invitational in New Jersey. The Irish team o( freshmen and sophomores turned in a strong performance, finishing second out of 18 teams with a team score of 18-over. 
With eight underclassmen on the team this year, the Irish will depend on signifi­cant contributions from the younger classes. Freshmen Dustin Zhang and Jeff Chen led the squad at Rutgers, tying for eighth individually at six-over. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 


page 22 Friday, September 28, 2007 
The Observer + SPORTS 

---~==========~============================================================~ 

VANESSA GEMPISfThe Observer Senior forward Amanda Cinalli battles for the ball during Notre Dame's 2-1 overtime loss to Oklahoma State. 
Big East 
continued from page 24 
postseason begins. The Irish are 3-4-1 overall but look to stay perfect in league play. 
"The non-conference games are the first phase of our sea­son. where we try to improve 
our  seeding for  the  NCAA  
Tournament,"  Irish  eoaeh  
Handy  Waldrum  said.  

"Obviously, we didn't do what we wanted in that phase, but now we're in phase two." 
The Irish visit No. 25 Louisville on Friday before rnturning home to take on Cincinnati Sunday. The Cardinals are 6-1-1 overall and 2-0-1 on their home turf'. 
"Louisville is a very hard plaee to play," Waldrum said. "The fans get right bnhind the goal and yell at thn de!imsfl and thfl goalie the whole game." 
Louisville senior goalkeeper Joanna llaig, who earned Big East goalkeeper of the week last week after registering shutoul<; against Kentucky and Cincinnati, has registered five dean slates in the team's eight games this season. 
On offense, the Cardinals are led by freshman forward Kelsey Hunyadi and junior for­ward Shannon Smyth, eaeh of' whom has put up three goals and an assist. 
"It's not going to be an easy 


THE NAME IS KNOWN WORLDWIDE 
, , , PART DF' THE CASH FAMILY MUSICAL HERITAGE! 

Al.~--appearing: 
.1.• ·' 

PORTION OF" P~OCEECB TO BENEFIT ELKHART CCUNTY WOM~N1S SHEL..TER 
test," Waldrum said. "They're a good team but you have to beat the good teams. 
On Sunday, the Irish will host Cincinnati, which is 3-4-1 over­all and 0-1 in Big East play. 
The Bearcats took Louisville to double-overtime last Friday before falling 1-0 to their rival. 
Waldrum knows that defeat­ing Cincinnati will not be a sim­ple task. 
"In this conference, there's such parity that everyone is capable of' beating anyone on a given day," he said. "Last year, there were only about two or three really good teams but that's no longer thP. case." 
After a tough loss in which the Irish out-shot Penn State 24-9, Notre Dame will look to cut down on the mental errors that have eost it several games this season. 
"Sunday, we gave the game away with some little things we need to work on," Waldrum said. "But the girls know where we are as far as correcting those mistakes." 
Irish junior forward Kerri Hanks, who has scored in four consecutive games, looks to add to that streak and start a new one -a team winning streak. 
"We're just focusing on Friday at Louisville and trying to win all our Big East games," Hanks said. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
HIS TALENT IS OBVIOUS! 
Clausen 
continued from page 24 

we expected but we just go out there every day just try­ing to get better, trying to get our first win." 
Clausen entered Notre Dame as a highly toutnd prospect and the top quartl~r­baek on most recruiting lists. He led Oaks Christian (Calif'.) lligh School to a 42-0 record but has started this season 0­3 as the starter. 
"It's real different, to say the least. In high school I didn't lose a game, but that was high school," Clausen said. "In college, it's a way different game. It's helped me and not only me, but the rest of the team realized that this is a hard game and you have to come 
out every "Football is a Allen carried week and get the ball eight
physical sport. IfI 
better." times for only
didn't want to get 
Even though 12 yards but Clausen was hit, I should have had a team­known in high high six catch­
played golfor 
school for his es for 36 yards
something like 
ability to most of throw the ball that." which came on down field, he the game's said. he has opening drive.
Jimmy Clausen 
no plan on "Thn Penn
Irish quarterback 
forcing a change to the team's cur­rent conservative of'f'ensive approach. 
''I'm a freshman and I'm just trying to help the team win." Clausen said. "Anything I ean do to help the team win, I'm going to do." 
Clausen said that one of the biggest adjustments he must make this season is adjusting to the speed of the college game. 
"It's obviously faster than high sehoul," Clausen said. "But once you get used it, it's not that bad, it slows down for you a little bit. Obviously it's slowed down for me, and not only me but the rest of the freshmen are making that transition too." 
Clausen is also throwing behind an offensive line that has allowed a nation-high 27 sacks -with Clausen taking 18 of those. But the fresh­man said that all the hits are not taking a mental toll on him. 
"Football is a physical sport. If I didn't want to get hit, I should have played golf' or something like that," Clausen said. 
ClausHn's entry to Notre Dame was one of the most well-analyzed in school histo­ry. Fortunately for the fresh­man, his position coach was a well-known quarterback prospect in his own right ­Ron Powlus. 
"[Powlus and Weis have) helped me balance all the football and all the things ofT the field and in the class­room, so it's been pretty tough," Clausen said. "Coach Powlus has been great with me because he's been in this situation that both me and 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


Evan [Sharpley! are in right now." Allen's has been a different story. 
lie missed his senior sea­son in high school with a broken leg but was still listed as the 52nd bnst high sehoul player and the second rated all-purpose bar:k. 
Allnn said that missing his senior snason has made the transition to college football even more drastic. 
"For rnn, it's pretty over­whelming because I missed out on my senior y1mr of high school and so jumping straight from my junior foot­ball season to the college game, it's likn 'Wow. I can't believe it,"' Allen said. 
Allen did not start against Georgia Tech in the season opener, but he made his first collegiate start at Penn State on Sept. 8. 
State game and 
first couple or 
plays were pretty overwhelming f'or me, but I liked it," he said. 
Allen said going into that game he did not know he would be getting as many touches as he did beeause of the way Irish offensive coor­dinator Mike Haywood runs the substitutions. 
"Going into the game we really don't know what's going to happen. In practice, everybody practices the same plays," Allen said. "Going out on the field, you basically wait until you're number is called and whenever you're number's called, you first to go out on the field and do it and do whatever you can to ful!ill your task." 
Allen credited his develop­ment to both llaywood ­who Allen called "by far the best running backs coach I've ever had" -and senior running backs Travis Thomas and Junior Jabbi11. 
"!Thomas and Jabbie) pret­ty much helped me with everything," Allen said. "Maybe if it's a problm11 that I want to ask him and not ask a coach because I don't want to seem like I don't know anything, they're there for me at all times. I look at them like another member of' the coaching staff' off' the field." 
Note: 
Irish sophomore of'fensive lineman Chris Stewart was excused from practice Thursday for personal rea­sons, director of' football media relations Brian llardin said. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
CALL (574) 259-TAXI 
AMERICAN CAB 
FAS'f RESPONSE 
OPEN noon to six 
LET US PICK YOU 

;// ?amiltf SCJWia o& &eMa'tt {!o«<t~tf 'P~t 
Tuesday through Sunday 
UPAT YOUR 

''J;i./a;!.· 574-294-IFII 
1027 E. Wayne 
DORM 241JR
South Bend, IN 46617 
St:RVWI<
232-8444 


-----------~-~·-------~~------~--·-----~ -----~~­
Friday, September 28, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 


RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 

CROSSWORD 
Across 28 Comparable to a You can sink 
wet hen your feet into 32 Pointed 
them warning? 12 Bus line? 34 This-and-that 14 Caribbean cruise recording for a 
port of call friend or a party 
16 Diwali revelers 36 Time immemorial
17 Sprinted, perhaps 37 Van of "Double Team"
18 Home of the and "DoubleCotopaxi Impact"
volcano 39 Some "wax"
19 Early film 40 ~Bo
actress Pitts 42 Beer may be on
20 Rolling Stone this cover subject 43 Cement layer's21 Abbr. after an workauthor's name, 44 Word before and
maybe 
after "against"22 Marty's mentor 
47 Marvel Comicsin "Back to the series

Future" 49 Profile on a 19¢
23 Where Japanese stamp
shares are bought and sold: 50 Major Abbr. component of 
kidney stones

25 Mountain 52 Hula-hoop, say
26 Utah's Mountains 53 Start of a series 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
55 ~ diet, food plan emphasizing olive oil, fish, fruit, vegetables and red wine 
56 Gulf war offensive 
Down Star performer's 
reward 2 Got together 3 100, say 4 Classic cars with 
389 engines 5 Hotel room 
option 6 Draw 7 Birds with. a 
name from Greek myth 8 Squirt 9 Title aunt in a 1979 best seller 1 0 Most affected by pathos 11 Leaves alone, sometimes 
12 It's guarded in a soccer game 13 "Copacabana" antagonist 14 Coffee alternative 15 Third-longest river of California 19 Daydreamed, with "out" 22 Pulled off 
24 Partner of Coburg, historically 
26 Major in astronomy? 27 Site of the King Hussein Mosque 
WILLSHORTZ 
Puzzle by Roger Barkan  
29 Language of India with a palindromic name 30 Home of Lawrence University 31 Accessories for a secretary 33 Go ahead of  35 Dennis the Menace, for one 38 Accepted bad treatment 41 Heat up 43 Like someone who's been fooled before 44 Wickiup, for one 45·Self-styled "Family City U.S.A."  46 Like 1-Across 48 Scrooge McDuck, notably 49 Sleep: Prefix 51 National competitor 52 Swatter's target 54 Places for gurneys, for short  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


HoRoscoPE Friday's with Fran Tolan 
Aries: 

If you feel like falling, don't worry ... you're probably drunk. (5 stars) 
Taurus: If your name is Brittany, you will be engaged to a man [Steve] within the next two months. (2 stars) 
Gemini: You'll realize KIA stands for "Kosher is awesome." (3 stars) 
Cancer: 

The jester will find you. It won't be pleasant. (1 star) 
Leo: 

Stay out of the lion's den. (3 stars) 
Virgo: 

Yea, criticize O.J .... like he's not livin' the life. (2 stars) 
Libra: Like Nordberg, you will ruin your suit with paint. (2 stars) 
Scorpio: You will have an epiphany and realize that your child should be named Buster. (4 stars) 
Sagittarius: You will venture into the burgeoning bungles of Burma. (3 stars) 
Capricorn: You will notice that you love ties/draws/even matches. (5 stars) 
Aquarius: So, you've been getting three stars lately? Too bad drunk kids, not the cosmos, write these horoscopes. (1 star) 
Pisces: If you want to experience the RedWoodForest, call (317) 409-796 (6 stars if you call) 

-


~~=-1-=-+:..:..j 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, September 28, 2007 
page 24 
FooTBALL 
Learning to lose 
Clausen says he is adjusting to collegegame 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Associate Spons Editor 
0 n e o f No t r e I> a nw 's strengths in Charlie Weis' first two seasons was the team's nxpnrience. Notre Dame had an experienend starting quar­tPrh;u:k in Brady Quinn and a returning startm at tailback in
-Darius WalkPr. That's not tlw cas!~ anymore. Notre Damn has started freshmen at both positions ­.Jimmy Clausen at quarterback and running back Armando Allen. "It's been fun. It's been a dif­fernnt experience," Clausen said Thursday, in his second meeting with reporters since coming to Notre Dame. "We obviously don't have the wins 
see CLAUSEN/page 22 


MEN's SoccER 
Bearcats, Cardinals visit Irish 
Squad looks for first win over Cincinnati 
. . 
sznce expanszon 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sports Editor 
Aftnr opening up Big East play with throe straight road wins, No. 2 Notre Dame returns home for two more league games this weekend at Alumni Field -one against a team it has never defeated in conference play and one against a team it has defeated every time. 
The Irish get started tonight with a showdown against la..'it 
see BEARCATS/page 22 

MEN'S INTERHALL 
High-flying Zahm faces winless Juggerknotts 
"I would say he's a good against Zahm. p.m. junior running back Don Joyce. By ANDY RENNER, EUGENIA threat, but not a main threat," "We are focusing on keeping For O'Neill senior captain Pat They'll have to face some tough ALFONZO, SAM WERNER, Zahm senior captain Sean everything clean and crisp," Conley, it is all a matter of learn­competition from Keough, a ANDY ZICCARELLI, Wieland said of Ossei-Anto. "A Knott sophomore captain Aidan ing from last week's mistakes. team that lost to Keenan 12-0 GRIFFIN DASSATTI and good passing game always helps Fitzgerald said. "The playbook "We got beat last week on a and is looking to redeem itself. MATT GAMBER to open up the running game." won't be the thickest, but it will few passes rand] our oll'ense was Keough seems to be heading Sports Writers Despit{l the good start, Wieland be the most well-run." not schemed correctly," he said. back to the drawing board as 
is not getting overconlident. Fitzgerald said Knott will come But the Angry Mob has been well, working on elements that "I thought we played well, but out fast and furious. working hard to make Sunday's Keenan exploited in Sunday's 
Zahm and Knott face off there are always things to work "Our team isn't huge, but we 8-0 loss to Stanford a thing of game. Sunday at 2 p.m. with the tl~ams on," Wieland said. "Obviously have some head hunters that the past. "At practice we'll work on our going in opposite directions. the goal is to get back to when~ will let you know we're on the "Our pass defense has been defense, tackling and pass cover­
Led by junior running bark we were sophomore y1mr, in the field to crack some skulls," the focus of this week's practices age" junior captain Tom Tlwo Ossei-Anto. Zahm blanked stadium." Fitzgerald said. along with emphasis on chmning O'Donnnll said. "We're very con­Carroll 12-0 in Week 1. Ossei­Knott, on the other hand, suf­up the offense," he said. fident. we think Wl1 match up Anto racked up 123 yards and fered a 21-0 defeat at the hands O'Neill vs. Keough O'Neill freshman quarterback well Iand I can take it to them two touchdowns. but Knott will of Mod Quad rival Siegfried. Still, Both Keough and O'Neill will Robbie Powers will look to have and win the gam!~." have to f01:us on the entin~ Zahm the Juggerknotts are optimistic: to try to rebound from their a better chance connecting with ommse if it wants to win. that they can bounce back opening-day losses Sunday at 3 junior receiver Nate forte and see KEOUGH/page 17 
WoMEN's INTERHALL 
Phoxes face defending 
champ Purple Weasels 
Opportunity knocks after PW drops first game 
By JARED JEDICK, PETER 
REJSENAUR, MIKE 
GOTIMER, GRIFFIN 
DASSATTI and MEGHAN 
MCMAHON 
Sports Writers 
Pangborn and Pasquerilla West, two (;old League power­houses, f;u:e oil" Sunday at 5 p.m. on Hiehlc1 East field. 
Tlw Purple Weasels starters gavn up their first points of the season in a 6-0 loss to Welsh Family in their last game. The team picked up two wins with stellar defense prior to that against Lewis and Breen-Phillips. 
"We arn good on both sides of the ball, but I think our strength has to bn our defense," senior captain Tina Martinek said. "Lewis only got passed our 50­yard line once, and Breen Phillips only scored on our back-ups." 
Freshman quarterback Grace Orians leads the powerful ommse that hopes to rebound from Thursday's disappointing show­ing. 
"She is good both running and passing," Martinek said. "She is great." 
The Weasels hope to work in some new trick plays to keep 
see WEASELS/page 16 

NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish resume Big East play 
Team takes perfect league record on the road to Louisville 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
After finishing its daunting early-season non-conference slate, Notre Dame heads into the second phase of its sched­ule this weekend. 
The Irish beat DePaul 4-0 in their first Big East game Sept. 21 before falling to Big Ten foe Penn State 2-1 two days later. Notre Dame will now play 10 straight confer­ence matches before the 
see BIG EAST/page 22 



THE

Friday, September 28,2007-----------------OBSERVER 

~-------------~-~ 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 28, 2007 
COMMENTARY 

No. 1 draft pick eight losses away 
Notre Dame is 0-4 and that <:an only mean onn thing-it's time to start tanking and get the No. 1 draft piek. 
.lust like the Boston Cellies and Memphis (;rizzlies in last ynar's NBA, it's time for NotrP Damn to give up and hope it gets a play­er that can turn the franchise 


around. 
OfTnnsive Sports Editor 
line, just let everybody 
through. Defense, let everyom1 
run all over you, and, David 
Bruton, stop trying so hard. 

But don't make it obvious that you're tanking, Irish. Make it look like you're trying, but keep in mind the next Peyton Manning or Troy Aikman is just wailing to be picknd. When you get that player, it will only be a matter of time before he devel­ops into the next supnrstar and leads you to another national title. 
Oh wait, what's this I hear about Notre Dame having the No. 1-rated recruiting dass in the country? Heally? Ilow is that possible? 
I had heard our eoaching stafT stunk and didn't know what they were doing. I forgot this is not the NFL, where the lnagun rewards your lack of <JITort and/or ability with a No. I draft pick. 
NotrP Dame has a hunch of solid "draft picks" lirwd up for rwxt sPason on both sides of the hall and tlwrP is a lot of sporu­lation that if things do not improvP soon, sonw of thosP verbal recruits will go nlse­wlwrP. But tlwse mcnrits havn lwads 011 tlwir shoulders and probably wo11't be influnncnd by nngative rneruitnrs who say tlwir ranwrs will go down the tubns if they go to Notrn Damn. 
To quotn Demetrius .Jones in the South Be11d Tribune on Snpt. 17, "College cmu:hing is a businnss, but so is playing. So is playing." 

Thesn recruits know Notre Dame is young and that it would be a bad business deci­sion to jump ship at this point. They know they ean come in and possibly see playing time right away to become part of the solution. 
This is where the eurrnnt 
team enters the picture. 
I know it's hard to give 100 pereent every play when there is no lofty reward waiting at the e11d of the season. When you are down at the end of the game, and victory is out or reach, it almost seems silly to keep trying. But failing to give 100 percent is worse than any loss this team could suffer. 
Lack of experience is an excuse; lack of effort is not. Nothing will turn recruits away faster than watching a team that does not want to be on the field. In a way, the Irish are playing for a national ehampi­onship-just one that will be a couple of years in the future. 
If I was lucky enough to have the talent to be a highly-touted high school recruit, I would not want the players at my future sehool giving up just because they are down a couple of touchdowns. 
If I was lucky enough to be playing as a senior for Notre Dame, I know I want to do all I ean to make sure this program is in good hands when I leave. l may not be able to single-hand­odly win a game, but I can make sure I'm giving 100 per­c<mt. People can say it is tlw coach's job to motivate tho players to play. I don't buy that argument. 
Tlw players are here to play football. It's their job. They nePd to motivate themselves to play every down as hard as the last. 
Unlike the NFL, nothing good can come from giving up. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Obseruer. 
Contact Chris /line at chine@nd. edu 

JESSICA KANG!The Observer Irish running back Armando Allen runs upfield during Notre Dame's 31-10 loss to Penn State on Sept. 8. 
2007 Irish opponents 
Last week (2-2) L, 23-28, Virginia (3-1) L, 9-14, Mich. W, 14-9, PSU W, 31-14, ND W, 45-31, Minn. W, 44-31, Wash. W, 37-17, Army W, 47-14, WSU W, 46-43, Duke L, 6-31, BYU L, 43-46, Navy L, 31-55, Oregon 
Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(Watr.rfi:mJ F..~t.ate.~ Lodff. has hot.el roomsat reawnable rat.e.~ tt)r upcoming ND fixllball wt"r.kends.) 
This week at Clemson 
at Illinois 
at N'Western at Wisconsin vs Notre Dame at Oregon St. vs UMass vs Washington vs Air Force at Navy at Miami (FL) vs Arizona State 



Friday, September 28, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Football for his family 
Irish safety David Bruton plays to support his son Jaden-who he calls 'Knucklehead' 
old.

By JAY FITZPATRICK "It was just difficult because 
Assocaite Sports Edtor 
I was getting pulled back home because I wanted to he around David Bruton has played my son and not being able to many roles in his three years see him," he said. "And then at Notre Dame. just being up here and all the First he was a special teams stress of being pulled so many player. different ways and not being Then he was backup safety. able to know how to use your Now he is the starting free time, it was difficult my first safety. couple years. But it tended to 
But if you ask David, he is, get better as I matured and got and has been, something older, and I learned what's entirely different. best and what's not." 
''I'm a father, and I'm a stu­Part of his maturation is his dent," he said. desire to be a large part of Jaden's life. Bruton knows that Working for 'Knucklehead' he cannot be as involved with 
Unlike many Division I col­Jaden as he would like to be lege football players, Bruton's because of football, but he has main concern in his football tried his hardest to be with his career is not how it will trans­son when he can. late into a professional career. This season, Jadcn was able lin has morn important things to come watch his father make on his mind. his first collegiate start against 
In NovPmbPr of his freshman Georgia Tech. year at Notre Dame, Bruton's Bruton said the most impor­son, Jaden, was born. Bruton tant factor in shaping who he said that when his girlfriend is today is his family -espe­from honu~ in Miamisburg, cially Jaden. Ohio, first became pregnant, "I got a younger brother he was unsure about how he [Kendrick, a tight end at Miami should act as a father. (OH)] -that's my best friend. 
"There was a time where I've got my little son and that's there was a debacle between my Mini-Me there," he said. Bruton still decided to come Georgia Tech, accumulating 18 said. "One guy against the me and my baby momma. We 'Tm just more of a family guy. play for the Irish. total tackles -including his next, and David was able to, lost contact during her preg­You wouldn't expect that from When Bruton first got to first tackle for a loss against we thought, day in and day nancy," he said. "In the four a twenty-year-old in college." Notre Dame under then-defen­Army. out, outperform the other play­months before Jaden was born sive coordinator Rick Minter, He said that one of the main ers and that's what we're look­during the summer, I was just Getting started he was primarily a special reasons for his success was his ing for is to put the best eleven out having fun doing things Bruton started at safety for teams player. Bruton logged coaches, including special guys, and in the case of the that you wouldn't necessarily two seasons at Miamisburg 3:55 minutes of playing time teams coach Brian Polian and safeties put our two best guys, consider responsible." High School in Ohio, earning a his freshman year, playing in defensive backs coach Bill on the field." 
But Bruton realized that he three-star ranking, according 11 games for the Irish and Lewis. Bruton earned his starting had to act more responsibly to scout.com. During his junior making 14 total tackles. "They're patient, but you spot going into the fall on a once his son. who he calls and senior seasons, Bruton tal­"Just having that opportunity know h_ow coaches are, they high note, earning defensive Knucklehead, was born. lied 11 interceptions and 112 helped with my maturity yell at you, they get on your most valuable player honors 
"But as he was born and I tackles. level," Bruton said. "It also butt about everything," Bruton for the 2007 Blue and Gold got older, I realized the fair­Bruton was a late commit to helped with my confidence and said. "And it's just little things Game, after he returned an ness of her being at home and the Irish coming out of high just knowing I can play D-one. they help you study from. interception 35 yards for a not being able to do much, and school and did not even make It's not like a lot of people from Studying yourself is something touchdown. then I'm not going doing an official visit until Jan. 7, my high school got the chance that I never learned to do." Although Lewis said there is much," he said. "And am I 2005, during his senior year. to play D-one. It was just get­In his first two seasons, not much schematic difference going to college to have fun, or Bruton said his biggest influ­ting to prove to myself and to Bruton said, safeties Tom between Minter and current am I going to college to sup­ences in committing to Notre my hometown that we can play Zbikowski and Chinedum defensive coordinator Corwin port Knucklehead. And I nar­Dame were his father and his anywhere." Ndukwe helped him mature as Brown's use of the free safety, rowed it down to I'm going to high school coach Tim Lewis. Bruton continued playing on a player. Bruton said he feels more com­school and playing football to "I didn't know about Notre special teams his sophomore "They've always kept my fortable in the latter scheme. support Knucklehead." Dame when I was being year, but was promoted to head up when I'm down. "It's more of a 'just go out 
Bruton said his first few recruited, and I didn't know backup safety that season. He They've always boosted me. there and play' type defense months at school were difficult such a big deal it was," he saw his first action on defense They've always kept me close," with Coach Brown," he said. because of the pressures put said. early in the season against Bruton said. "Nedu always "You come from high school; on him. He was trying to earn Former head coach Tyrone Penn State and continued to used to say I was more athletic you go out there to showcase playing time at a big-time Willingham began recruiting play iate downs throughout the than him. And Zibby was giv­what you do in high school. I'm school, adjusting to life as a Bruton in high school, but season. ing me a confidence boost not knocking on Coach Minter, college freshman and trying to after his firing and current Bruton played in every game when needed throughout my but Coach Minter's gameplans raise a son -all at 18 years coach Charlie Weis' hiring that season except against younger years, and it's been used to have you thinking so real helpful in my development much that you couldn't just as a player." relax and play. In Coach 
But after Ndukwe graduated Brown's you just get to play to the NFL, a slot opened at more freely." safety that Bruton wanted to This freedom has allowed fill. Bruton to become a constant 
presence in the defensive sec­Making his presence felt ondary as part of the nation's 
Bruton entered spring camp fourth-best pass defense. in 2007 competing for the Bruton is tied for second on starting safety position next to the team with 35 tackles and Zbikowski with, among others, made the first interception of fellow junior Ray Herring. his career Saturday against Bruton worked hard through­Michigan State. out training camp to show his "You saw the interception desire to make the team. the other day, that was not just 
"I just went out and worked an OK play, that's a guy having every day. I didn't just work in great range, not only just tak­defense, but I worked in spe­ing the proper angle to the cial teams. I always try to ball, just being able to get from work," he said. "I always try to the middle of the field all the do my best that I can do. And way to the fade ball up the there's something I can't do or sideline," Weis said. "There something I don't understand, aren't that many people that I've always spent extra time to have the speed to cover that understand everything." much ground." 
Lewis said Bruton worked But for David, everything ­harder than the rest competing the tackles, the interceptions, for the position and that put the big plays -is for him above the rest of the com­Knucklehead. 
GEMPISfThe Observer petition. 

Irish safety David Bruton, left, and Irish linebacker Maurice Crum, Jr., right, tackle Yellow Jackets "And that's what it is, it's all Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at running back Tashard Choice during Notre Dame's 33-3 loss to Georgia Tech on Sept. 1. about competition," Lewis jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
-· --------~------­
------------~·--------------~---------------------------~----------------~ ~--------~----------------­
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 28, 2007 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 
HEAD1
Record: 0-4 AP: NR 
Coaches: NR Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
Charlie Weis Third season at 
Notre Dame 
Notre Dame career record: 
2007 Schedule 
1 9-1 () 
at Notre Dame: 

19-10 
Sept. 1

Charlie Weis against head coach Purdue: 2-0 
Sept. 8 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  
I  D.]. !lord  WR  
2  D.urin W.11ls  IJB  
4  Gary Gray  DB  
5  Arn1t1ndo Allt.•n  RB  
b  Ray Herring  IJH  
7  Jimmy n .• uscn  (.)B  
8  Rat•shnn McNt•il  DB  
9  Tom Zbikowski  DB  
II  D,wid Grimes  WR  
12  l>arrin Br.1gg  QB  
13  Ev,m Sharpley  (.)H  
14  Br.1ndnn Walkt•r  K  
15  Lt•o F~rrinl'  DB  
16  justinGillt.•tt  QB  
17  (;l'<,ffrey Price  I'  
18  Duval K1mara  WR  
19  l ;t•orgc Wt..'st  WR  
20  Tt.•rraill.ambcrt  DB  
21  ll.lfry G.1llup Jr.  WR  

Ht. 6-1 6-l 5-11 5-10 5-10 6-3 6-0 6-0 5-10 6-l 6-2 6-3 6-0 5-11 6-3 6-5 5-10 5-11 5-11 Wt. 196 180 180 190 197 207 187 207 177 188 216 197 189 180 208 222 197 191 185 YR )R 

so 
I'R I'R 
so 
FR FR SR 
Jl' 
SR JR I'R SR SR SR I'R 
so 
SR 
so 
22 Ambmst• Wot>dt•n CB 5-11 196 SR 
2.1 Coldt•n Tate WR 5-11 188 FR 
2.1 W. David William~ DB 5-9 173 SR 
GA.TECH-L at Penn State-L at Michigan-L MICH. ST.-L at Purdue at UCLA 
BC 

usc NAVY AIR FORCE DUKE at Stanford 

Sept. 15 Sept. 22 Sept. 29 Oct. 6 Oct. 13 Oct. 20 Nov. 3 Nov. 11 Nov. 18 Nov. 25 

COACHING QUARTERBACKS
3.1 Robt.•rl llught.'> Rll 5-11 238 FR 
24 
25 
26 27 28 29 29 30 31 32 
Leonard Gordon DH 5-11 
Munir Prince DB 5-10 Tr.wis Thomas RB 6-0 David Bruton DB 6-2 
Kyle McCarthy DH 6-1 j.1shaad Gaines DB 6-0 ).1ke Richardsvillt.• WR 6-1 !Iarrison Smith DB 6-2 St.•rgio Brown DB 6-2 l.ukt.• Schmidt RB 6-3 194 184 216 207 207 203 180 205 196 248 

so 
so 
SR )R 
so 
so 
so 
I'R 
so 
so 
IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
34 35 35 36 37 38 39 
:w 
40 41 42 ·13 43 41 
44 
45 45 47 
.JH 4'1 
50 51 '2 53 
54 
55 'in 57 .'iY 61 63 67 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 7H 80 82 
H3 
84 85 H9 90 91 92 43 Y4 
95 
% 
Y7 9H 
j.lmL'S Aldridgt.• RH 6-0 N.ltt.• Whit.1ker K 5-9 Kevin Smith ()ll 6-U Dt.•x Curt• DH 6-1 J uninr J•bbit.• lUI 5-11 W.ldL•Inm!' WR 5-Y Ry.m Burkhart K 5-11 Kl•Vill Atuok.s TE 6-2 M.lllrkl' Crum, Jr. 1.1! 6-0 Scott Smith I.B 6-4 Kc.•vin W.1shington l.ll 6-1 Mikt.•Am•llo ()(l 5-10 ErkMilu~t I' 5-10 Mikc.•Arwllo IJB 5-10 A,aph Schwapp FB 6-0 John lA.'llnJ!) IJB 5-Y Kri~ Pattc.•rson WR 5·11 Aaron Nagl'l I.B 6-1 Stc.·vc.•Quinn Ul 6-2 ·l(Jry.ln Smith 1.1! (.,~I Stc.•vc.• P.tsknrL l.ll 6-2 I)dn Wc.•ngc.·r 01. 6-4 Jot• Bntekingtnn I.B 6-2 M11rrin· Ric'hards..m 1.11 6-2 Anlhnny Vl•rnaglicl I.B 6-.'l Eric l)IM.·n Ol. 6-4 Kl'rryNt•ctl I.B 6-2 Dwi~ht Sh•ph...nson Dl. 6·2 Chris St<.'Wilrt OL 6-5 ).). J,m...·n [$ 6-3 )loffTis.lk 01. 6-5 T11111 lk•mt•ndt•r!c.•r OL b-5 Nc.·il KN\lll'dy DL 5-11 M.tttRominc OL 6-5 B.lflley W<•bb llL b-6 1\HII Duncan OL 6·7 M.1tt C1rufcl OL 6-5 Sclm Young OL 6-8 Tayl,•rDt.•vt•r OL 6-5 i\ndn•w Nuss IJL {,-5 Mkhal•l Turk<•vich 01. 6-6 John Sullivan Of. 6-4 Rit..:h.ud jacbc.m WR 6-3 Rt Jbby P,, rris WR 6-4 Mike R.lg<mt.• TE 6-5 Will y,.,,tman TE 6-6 Sam Vus WI< 5-10 john C•rlson TE 6-li john Ryan I.H 6-5 EmL•kll Nwankwo DL 6-4 IJt.orn·ll H,md DL 6-3 l'.1ddy Mullen DL 6-5 Justin Bmwn DL b-3 
l.m Wiliams DL 6-2 Pat Kuntz DL 6·3 K,lllt.•n Wade DL 6-5 Trt•vor Laws DL 6-1 
222 165 180 220 205 183 196 241 230 235 241 170 177 IHO 261 169 185 229 231 245 235 287 240 244 
2.14 
303 245 272 339 242 306 285 266 27'1 305 308 295 310 289 292 301 303 204 209 230 264 199 255 253 283 287 290 261 
300 
285 
257 
296 

JR 
rR 
SR 
so 
SR 
SR 
so 
so 
SR 
)R 
IR 
jl{ 
so 
so 
)R 
JR 
)I~ 
FR )I{ 
su 
FR 
so 
SR 
so 
SR 
so 
I'R SR 
so 
SR 
)R )R SR FR 
so 
JR 
so FSO 
FR 
·m 
)R SR 
so 
so 
FR 
so so SR so 
FR JR 
so 
SR FR 
)R 
so 
SR 
1.&.1 
:!!: 
<C 
c 
1.&.1
c:: 
1­
0 
z 
1.&.1 ::J 
c
c:: 
::J D.. 


Charlie Weis' success in his first 23 games as Notre Dame head coach suddenly sflems lih a distant memory. Six straight ugly losses, ineluding four to open this season, raise dis­turbing questions. Can he turn this thing around?  Charlie Weis deci­sion to simplify the offense and go to more of a power running game has taken some of the pressure orr Jimmy Clausen. The freshman is completing over 50 percent of his passes, but not for many yards.  Notre Dame improved running the ball last wenk, with James Aldridge leading the way with his lirst career 100-yard game. The Irish still have a long way to go though -they're still averaging just over 25 yards per gamn on the ground.  Notre Dame hasn't passed filr morn the I 00 yards sinec the Penn State game. Part of' that. is because tho Irish arn con­centrating on running and part. of' it is bocause Clausen is throwing short pa.c;ses. Tlw Irish oflimsive line is giving up nearly sevnn sacks pnr gamo.  
Joe Tiller has been at  Curtis Painter is back  The Boilormakers'  l'urd ue 's secondary is  
Purdue for 11 seasons  under center this season  rush defense has bonn  mueh improved over last.  
now, and he is one of the  after throwing for  solid but not speetaeular  ymtr, but it still givns up  
most successful coaches  almost 400 yards in a  -and it hasn't played  around 230 yards pass­ 
in school history. llis  loss to the Irish last sea­ against vnry good com­ ing every game.  
teams are always efTec­ son. This year, he's aver­ petition. Last weok,  Minnesota QB Adam  
tive running his spnmd  aging over 320 yards  Minnesota ran for 2:{2  Weber completed just.  
of'f'nnse. The defense  per game through the  yards, with five backs  ovor. 50 pnrcent of' his  
under Brock Spack has  air in .Joe Tiller's spread  going for over live yards  passes last week, inelud­ 
been shaky at times.  offense.  per carry.  ing a 46-yard toss.  
Weis has outcoached Clausen has a ton of James Aldridge might Tiller the past two upside, but he's still a be the best back Purdue fresh has faced this year -behi but Notre Dame's o/Ten­siyt\ line needs to open holus for that ~o metter. ~,,i~~f t~~sr~~~~~~~~~~~~ f41qM~IMIF.c ontin u i ty less than stellar oppo­can do for the strength over 2006 in nents, but then again, of a program. four games. so had Michigan.  



Purdue's ruc;h game is too good to ignore. Any team averaging half a dozen yards a earry, against any set of oppononts, will bo good. The Irish rush dBHmse, because of seheme and per­
Irish 

sonnel issues, is vulnerable. Jimmy Clausen will play the whole game (despite the lopsided fourth­quartor score), and Notre Dame will onee again
experts 

improve on ollimse with tho realization that the de/(mse has work to do. 
FINAL SCORE: Purdue 4 7 Notre Dame 20 
Chris Khorey 
Sports Editor 

Early in the game, Jimmy Clausen completes a bomb f'or a TD, forcing Purdue to move its safilties out of' the box and allowing filr produc­tive Irish rushing. Mnanwhilo, Notro Dame's defense looks hotter against. a spnmd oll'lmsn than it has against the power teams it has f'aeod. St.udnnts rush St.onehnngo as a Brandon Walker field goal splits tlw uprights with no time left. Thll losing stn~ak llnds now. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 23 Purdue 21 
~--·-----­
~·­
Friday, September 28, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
pHEAD 
Purdue Boilermakers 

Purdue 2007 Schedule 
Sept. 1 atToledo-W Sept. 8 E.HLINOIS--W Sept. 15 ClWffi-W Sept. 22 at Minn.-W Sept. 29 vs Notre Dame Oct. 6 OHIO STATE Oct. 13 at Michigan Oct. 20 IOWA Oct. 27 N'WESTERN Nov. 3 at Penn State Nov. 10 MICIDGANST. Nov. 17 at Indiana 


BOILERS RUSHING BOILERS PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
Notre Dame's front  Opposing quarterbacks  Notre Dame's special  
seven  is undersized  - arc eompleting less than  teams looked decent this  
and it shows. The Irish  50 percent of their passes  season  - until a total  
have  been  pushed  for fewer than 120 yards  meltdown  last  week.  
around defensively to  per game against the  Returns were short, cov­ 
the tune of more  than  Irish. but part of that suc­ erage was poor and Geotl"  
230  yards  on  the  cess is because teams are  Price punted the ball off  
ground per game. The  running the ball so well.  the side of his foot nearly  
Irish need to fight off  Play-action  passing  into the stands. The Irish  
blocks and tackle mueh  worked well for Michigan  must get back on track  
better.  State.  this week.  

Kory Sheets leads  a  Purdue's wide receivers  Purdue has returned  
Boilermaker  rushing  have killed Notre Dame  two kickoffs for touch­ 
attack that is averaging  in the past. Last year,  downs this year, includ­ 
more than 200 yards per  Selwyn Lymon had 238  ing one by Bryant, who  
game.  Purdue  mainly  yards receiveing, and two  also  returns  punts.  
ndins  on  draws  and  years ago Dorien Bryant  Kicker Chris Summers  
stretch plays out of its  had 127 yards and two  is  perfect  inside  40  
thrne-and four-wide for­ touchdowns. Both still  yards, but he has onl;y  
mations, but those plays  suit  up  for  the  one  touehback in  33  
have been very effective.  Boilermakers.  kickoffs.  

The Purdue running game is more finesse­
hasP  than whatf:.11t\~  
Iris  have seen so f  '"  
thiS'  . r  -wli!tfb h  .  e  
·rna  ow  ~"Ji<t~tff'w.a s sties  ate a  
•b:it.,~,i,!!e  elp one of  ;JJ:~SHo'iftto!\~;~~~Ftre  Dame's  iye  Notre  
the nation's worst rush  secon  ary may be in for  Dame goo  teld position.  
defenses remains to be  a  rude awakening this  Priee needs to find his old  
seen.  week.  form.  

Notre Dame will still be searching for its first win a1lcr this week. The Irish have a solid ground game once again, but Purdue keeps the Irish offense one-dimensional and limits the scoring. Purdue's spread offense gives Notre Dame fits on the out<>idc, the Boilermakers control the tempo of the game, and Joe Tiller captures another victory. 
FINAL SCORE: Purdue 34 Notre Dame 17 


Notre Dame looked better last week, but still 
z

was far from actually 
0

winning a game. The 
.... 

Irish badly need some­
::tl 
rrl

thing to get their eonfi­dence back. The noon 
c 

kickoff will mean the 
l> 

Purdue crowd won't be 
3: 
rrl

as loud early in the game. 
Purdue is 4-0, racking up huge numbers on offense and has two straight losses to the Irish 
"tJ 

for motivation. Their 
c: 
::tl

schedule has been easy, 
c

but the Irish don't neces­
c:

sarily offer a step up in 
rrl 

eompetition -just more media attention. 

.w;~re 
test, 

r.first big home game and a chance to beat Notre Dame for the ftrst time since 2004. 
Things looked better on offense last week, but the defense faltered -something that will seri­ously hurt Notre Dame against Purdue. The Boilermaker's spread offense will kick the Irish while they are down. Purdue's strong rushing attack (more than 200 yards per game) and Curtis Painter will match up well with the Irish, who won't be able to handle it. The otl"ense will continue t9 improve, but not enough to win. 
FINAL SCORE: Purdue 27 Notre Dame 13 
Irish experts 

~­
page 6 Tbe ob.~erver + IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 28, 2007 
-·-.. ···-----··­

.. Crunching the numbers AVERAGE PER GAME 
ND points scored 
Purdue points scored 

ND points allowed 33.2 Purdue points allowed 20.R 
ND rush yards Purdue rush yards ND rushing allowed 232.8 Purdue rushing allowed 147.0 

ND pass yards Purdue pass yards 
ND passing allowed Purdue passing allow 


• 
TACO

-
BELli.: 

Saturday Pick 'eiTI  
KhoreJ:  Hine  Fowler  Fitzeatrick  
Season Record:  (58-20)  (63-15)  (66-12)  (66-12)  
No. 1 USC at Washington  usc  usc  usc  usc  
No. 2 LSU at Tulane  LSU  LSU  LSU  LSU  
; No. 3 Oklahoma at Colorado  Okla.  Okla.  Okla.  Okla.  
. Auburn at No. 4 Florida  UF  UF  UF  UF  
No.5 W. Virginia at No. 18 S. Florida  USF  USF  wvu  wvu  
No. 6 California at No. 11 Oregon  Cal  Cal  Cal  Oreg.  
Kansas State at No. 7 Texas  UT  UT  KSU  UT  
No. 8 Ohio State at Minnesota  osu  osu  osu  osu  
Michigan State at No. 9 Wisconsin  MSU  uw  uw  uw  
Maryland at No. 10 Rutgers  Rut.  Rut.  Rut.  Mary.  
UMass at No. 12 Boston College  BC  BC  BC  BC  
No. 13 Clemson at Georgia Tech  GT  Clem.  GT  Clem.  
Florida Atlantic at No.14 Kentucky  UK  UK  UK  UK  
Ole Miss at No. 15 Georgia  UGA  UGA  UGA  UGA  
Mississippi State at No. 16 S. Carolina  S. Car.  S. Car.  S. Car.  S. Car.  
North Carolina at No. 17 V. Tech  VT  VT  VT  VT  
No. 19 Hawaii at Idaho  UH  UH  UH  UH  
No. 21 Penn State at Illinois  PSU  PSU  PSU  PSU  
No. 22 Alabama at Florida State  Barna  Barna  FSU  Barna  
No. 23 Arizona State at Stanford  ASU  ASU  ASU  ASU  
No. 24 Cincinnati at San Diego St.  Cincy  Cincy  Cincy  Cincy  
Iowa State at No. 25 Nebraska  Neb.  Neb.  ISU  Ncb.  


~-----~-~--~---~---~­ --------~­ ---------~  
Friday, September 28, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER  page 7  

Spread offense brings tackling to forefront 

JENNIFER KANG!The Observer Irish cornerback Darrin Walls defends Nittany Lions wide receiver Chris Bell during Notre Dame's 31-10 loss to Penn State on Sept. 8. 
of playing in space, and we just
By CHRIS KHOREY 
have to make tackles." 
Associate Sports Editor 
Brockington, who made two tar.kles last year against the For four straight games, Boilermakers, said defending Notre Dame has given up over the spread in the 3-4 is similar 150 yards rushing. to defending it in the 4-3 
But each of those four oppo­defense the Irish ran last year. nents had something in com­"I don't think it's changed mon-a power much," he said. running attack "When it comes
'They do a really
using fullbacks down to it, you and tight ends to good job ofexecuting still have to clear out the what they want play in space smaller Irish front and make tack­
to get done. " 
seven. les." 
This week's Fellow line­opponent, Corwin Brown backer John Purdue, offers a Irish defensive Ryan said different chal­defending the
coordinator 
lenge. The Boilermakers run a spread offense, which fea­tures at least three wide r.eceivers and a shotgun forma­tion on most plays. 
"They spread it around pretty good," Irish defensive coordina­tor Corwin Brown said. "They do a really good job of execut­ing what they want to get done. It will be a good test." 
And while Purdue has been effective running the ball this season -202 yards per game -the Irish hope their 3-4 front will be better at stopping the Boilermaker's finesse game than it was at stopping the power games of Georgia Tech, Penn State, Michigan and Michigan State. 
"It's different for us because we haven't played it this year," Irish linebacker Joe Brockington said. "It's a game 
run against a 

spread offense is harder because players have to play the pass first -and then react to running plays. 
"You have to make your reads and get your drops in the passing lanes, but when it's a run, you have to read the run and come up and stop it," he said. 
For this reason, defensive end Trevor Laws said the spread puts more pressure on the defensive line to get into the backfield. 
"It's a little bit of a different gameplan. It's up to us on the defensive line to get pressure," he said. 
The Boilermakers running game is lead by tailbacks Kory Sheets and Jaycen Taylor, who average around 150 yards com­bined per game this year. 
"They're a good group," Laws said of the Purdue backs. "They all run hard. We have to keep the ball in front of us." 
Purdue coach Joe Tiller has run a spread offense since he took the job in West Lafayette in 1997. Nicknamed "basket­ball on grass," the scheme was considered groundbreaking when it was seen outside of l'lordia. Today, teams from Oregon to Florida run some form of the spread. 
The offense has also evolved over time. When Tiller first started, it was mainly a passing offense, but teams have figured out how to run out of it, espe­cially using counters, draws and options. 
"If you say they're one­dimensional, because they're spread out so much, if you said all they did was throw it all the time, then you could try to just stop the pass," Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis said. "But they're averaging over 200 yards a game rushing as well." 
Notre Dame has been suc­cessful defending the pass this year, allowing less than 50 per­cent completions and less than 120 yards per game, but Weis said if the Irish concentrate too much on stopping the pass, the Boilermakers will make them pay on the ground. 
"They're a passing team first. I think they'll run it to make to keep you honest," he said. "That's why they get some of these gash runs they get." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Painter evolves into top-flight quarterback 
Boilermakers average nearly downs in a 45-31 victory.
By KEN FOWLER 
325 yards passing and more "We can't be overconfident Sports Writer than 200 on the ground. It's a based on our game Saturday, stark contrast to Notre Dame. if we watch it [on tape]," . It wasn't a pretty beginning, which easily handled Purdue Tiller said Monday. "We've got 
but it showed sonw promise. in 2005 and 2006 under a lot work ahead of us." 
In thn young quarterback's Brady Quinn Just not l"irst start. against one of tho but now is much on thn Big Ten's best teams, he com­breaking in offensive sidn plPted more than 50 percent freshman "! don't think that [Notre of the ball. of his passes and showed a J i m m y Dame's] record really Painter isn't hint of nash. Clausen with as speedy as
does them justice. " 
That was Curtis Painter, two serious grow­many spread 
years ago, against Wisconsin. ing pains. quarterbacks 
lin went 23-of-44 for 212 Clausen, Curtis Patiner are, but he is 
yards with a touchdown and who also Boilermakers quarterback mobile. He 
three interceptions. Purdue made his had a long 
lost that game, 31-20, and its starting debut run of 42 
next, 33-15 to Penn State but against a yards in 2006 
finished the year on a three­tough Big Ten opponent, is en route to 288 yards gained 
game winning streak behind 35-of-62 for only 271 yards, on the ground, excluding 
its red-shirt freshman quar­two interceptions and no sacks. This season, he has 
terback. touchdowns in his three stuck to throwing the ball ­
and Painter has become one The Irish offense is last in He expects a challenge out 
of the most dependable sig­the nation in rushing and of the Notre Dame defense, 
nal-callPrs in the nation. His third-to-last in passing. Notre which is fourth in yards sur­
1(, touchdown passes is sec­Dame's 137 yards per game in rendered per game after the 
ond in the nation, and he is total offense is 62 yards fewer 0-4 start but only No. 55 in 
thn only quarterback with than the next-worst offense, pass efficiency defense ­
more than 12 Florida largely because opponents 
throwing International. have stuck with their running 
scores and The Irish have game against the vulnerable
"{Painter is] a strong­
only onn inter­548 yards of Irish front seven. cnption. lin's armed kid and gets rid total offense in "I don't think that their the No. 1 rea­ofthe ball quick, and four games. record really does them jus­son Purdue is T h e tice," Painter said Monday.
he's really making 
4-0 and conl'i­Boilermakers "They're a great defense, first dnnt good, quick decisions. " are averaging of all. ... I think their defense "II e 's a 527 each will be ready to play. strong-armed Saturday. "I think they'll be one of the
Charlie Weis 
kid and gets Still, Purdue better teams we've played so
Irish coach 
rid of the ball coach Joe far." quil'.k, and he's Tiller isn't act­Besides Minnesota. Purdue's n~ally making ing like the opponents this season have good, quick decisions," Irish game is in the bag. benn Toledo, Eastern Illinois coach CharliP Wnis said. The Boilermakers took a 24-and Central Michigan. 
Painter has led Purdue to 3 lead over Minnesota by half­AP the nation's flighth most pro­time last Saturday but surren­Contact Ken Fowler at Boilermakers quarterback Curtis Painter looks to pass during ductivn offense. The dered four second-half touch-kfowler 1 @od.edu the second half of Purdue's 45-31 win Saturday over Minnesota. 

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, August 31, 2007 
THIS WEEK IN ~.f.;U_.·~ SlRJJDm 

~~,;·."' :~I~~ 
SUN, SEPT. 30TH ® 1 PM VS. CINCINNATI 
EARLY ARRIVING FANS WILL RECEIVE A LIGHT SWITCH COVERS!! V 
COME MEET THE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TEAM BEFORE THE GAME! 
.. 



